{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__taylor___diegesis.pdf","mytitle":"Diegesis","mylang":"de"}
THE
SIS;
BEING
A DISCOVERY
OF 1111:
ORIGIN, EVIDENCES, AND EARLY HISTORY
or
CHBI8TIA.NITY,
NEVEil YET BEFORE OR ELSEWHERE SO FULLY AND FAITHFULLY
SET FORTH.
'BY THE ROBERT.J,A.YLOR, A.B. t M.B.C.S.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY ABNER KN.EELA.."W,
No. 14 Devonshire Street.
1834.
Digitized by Coogle
f3L
;i775"
/3J/
Dig,tizcd by GoogIe
•
l!ilEv. .llrolllilll'A'll'
A.llll.& MJIW&
founder
CHR.ISTIAN EVlDJ•:NCE SOCIETY
and 0( the
SOCII<:'PY Of' l:NJWJ·c.,;LI.L BJ<.:N i:vor,F,NCE.
o;9; ized byGoogle ·
DEDICATION.
TO TBII
MASTER, FELLOWS, AND TUTORS OJ!
ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.
li:YilBEND AN)) LEADED IJBI,
IN interesting remembrance of the high aenee your
learned holly were pJeased to express of my aucceasful
studies, when I received your general vote of thanb,
delivered to me by the Master himself, the late Dr.
Craven, for the honour you were pleased to O€
maider
that my poor talents and application, ia 11atu pupUlari,
had conferred on our College, which holds diatin-
pished rank in the most distinguished Univenity in the
world ; I very demcate the the
employment of my many solitary hours in an unjust
imprisonment, incurred in the moat glorious cause that
1 ever called virtue to act, or fortitude to suft"er. You
will appreciate (far beyond any wish of mine that you
should aeem to appreciate) the merits of this work. Your
uaiatance for the perfecting of future editiou, by ani-
madversion on any errors which might have crept into
Dig,tizcd oy Google
\
iv DEDICA.TIOI.'f.
the first ; and the feeling with respect to it, which I
ca.nnot but though it may never be expressed ;
will amply gratifY an ambition 'Yhhse undivided aim was
to set·forth truth, and ®thing else but truth.
ROBERT TAYLOR, A. B.
PlliiOl'fE&.
Oakham Gtol, Feb. 19, 1819.
•
... ..
Digitized by GO le
• i
·•
l
CONTENTS.
Dig,tizcd by Google
vi CONTENTS.
CHAP. XI.-Corroboratio01 of the evideDCe arising iom the adm.Utio•
ot Eaaebiae, in the New Teetament illelf 86
CHAP. to the,mookiah or TberapeliWl doctrinae to be
traced in the New Testament...•Jobn .abe Baptist, a monk....Monkillh ntlae in.
the New Teetament....Apolloe; a 1'herapeut....Vagabond Jewa....Tbe New
Teatament entirely allerrical....Tbe English tr&DIIation of it, Proteatantizea
in order to keep ill monkish origin obt of aigbt....St. Paal'a account of the
raenrrection wholly dilferent from that of the £vanrlisiii....Tbe coDCIDiioo. tO
CHAP. Xlli.-On the 'claims of the IICI'iptnrae of the New Taetament to
·be collllidered as genuine and authentic....l'reliminary....Tbe anthenticity .o(
St. Paul's epistles, and of 80 mnch of hia history (miracles excepted) as ii
contained in the Acta of the Apostles, affords no pr.unption in fayonr of the
Canonical goapela....The canon of the New ·Testament not aeuled even 80 late
as the middle of the sixth century....Mode of argwnent to be obae"ed in
. DI&GI:jll8 lot
CHAP. of criticisoo....Data of criticism to be applied in
judging the comparative claims of the apocryphal and canonical ...
Corollariea....Dr. Lardner's table of times and places 111
CHAP. XV.-Of the fonr gospels in general....Coaleaaioa of the foraery
of the gospels, by Faustna....Twenty to be 8lltiiiODDted....Order tOr
a general alteration of the gospels by Anaatasiu.s....Alteratioos by Lanfranc 114
CHAP XVI.-Of the origin of onr three fimt canonical gospela....The
great plagiarism gradually diacovered....Le Clerc....Dr. Semler....Leae!DJ••
liypotheaia, Niemeyer's, Halfeld's, Beaosobre's, Bishop Muah'a....Tbe Drm-
GJ:Bis....The Gnomologue 111
.CHAP. XVII.-Of St. John's gospel in particalar....Dr. Semler's hypo-
theeie....En,IIIIOn....Brelllcbneider....Falaebood of gospel geopphy, of aoePei
dates, of gospelatalietica, of gospel phraseology 110
CHAP. xvm.-Uhimate result....The JDODb of Egypt. the fabricato11 of
the whole Cbriltian ay1tem 116
CHAP•.XIX.-Raeemblancel of the Pagan and Cbriatian theoJocy....
Augury and bishope....lFAcalapiDI....Hercalea...:Adonis....Parallel ia
Cicero and the New Testament....Royal Jlrieiiiii....Saboniinale clergy•••.Priella
of Cybele....Parasitea or domestic chaplaioe....Converaion iom Pagauilm to
Cbriltianity brought about entirely by a transfer of property 1•
CHAP. XX.-.£ac11lapias &Dd JC8DI Cbrilt, the aamellplat of
tion....M'U'&Clea of .iEecalapiu beuer authenticated than those of 1011111....
.f'.ecalapiDB distinguilhed by the very epithelll afterwuds ascribed to J- . 148
CHAP. XXI.-Hercalea and JC8118 Christ, the same fi2ment of
tion...;Dr. Parkberat's at those who doubt that Herc.Tee wu a divmel.r
intended type of JC8D8 Chriet....Papn form of aweariog....Superior moral
virtue of '1\arb · 164
XXII.-Adoniii....Ridicalona literal renderinp of the Paalma....
and Adonis ued indifferently as common o.amae of the181118 deity-..
Words of onr Easter hymn 1IIJed at the faetival of the Adonia 118
,OHAP. xxm.-Tbe myaticalsacri1ice of the Phalnicians....A draft ofthe
whole Christian eyatem....Archbishop Magee, one of the Author's pemecatona H8
.·CHAP. XXIV.-Cbriahna, of the BrahrniDI, the origiaal J- Chr:Wt....
The absolute identity .of Chrilhna and Christ, triumphant in the complete
.overthrow of all the attemplll of Drs; Bentle;r and Smith, Beard, and eth8ll
to disprove it....Disboneat ensagement of Cbriatian M'Bionariae 1•
CHAP. XXV.-Apollo, JC8DI Chrilt the EfD'ptian venaioo. of the IAdiaa • ,
.
""""""'Google j
CONTENTS.
XXVI.-Metcary, Jens Christ....The Word, Cbrillt.....t\me-Pap
18 their identity 181
CHAP. XXVII.-Bacehus, J- Christ....His name Yes....Bacchus ad-
dlwed in the very words of Christian worship....A pe1110nification of the
San...•The Bacchanalia identical with CbristiBII sanctification 18f
,GIAP. XXVID.-Prometheus, Jesas Christ....The Grecian version of
the loclian Cbrisbna, identical with the Cbriatian god, Providence....The
pncematun!l darkness nt the Crucifixion a palpable falsehood, derived from
&cliyl111's 1rllgedy of Prometheus Bound 191
CHAP. XXIX.-Tbe Sign of the Cro• entirely Pagan....Fonnd in the
of the god Serapis....The hiah priellts of Serapis known and diltin-
Ciilbed by the title of :Bishops of Christ · 198
CHAP. XXX.-The Tauribolia....Tbe whole theory and practice of the
Christian doctrine of Regeneration 207
CHAP. XXXI.-Bnptism....Tbe Bapt&lts, an eft'eminate and debauched
6 of priests....Aetrological character of John the Bapti.t....Of SL
TboiiiU....'lhe New Teetament entirely allegorical 208
CHAP. XXXII.......The Mysteriell entirely the IIILIJie u the
ChrWtian Sacrament ofthe Lord's Supper....Bacchua, u the Sun, the common
object of W018hip in both 212
CHAP. XXXID,-Pytbaaoru, the ·type of the human or JDall.ooJ-....
'1\e Pythagorean Metempsychosis the beet system of anperaatvalism 217
CHAP. XXXIV.-Archbishop Tillotson's Confession of the identity of
Cliptiauity ·and Paganism • U.
CHAP. XXXV.-Resemblance of Pagan and Christian fomis of wollhip
••The Whits ....The Baptismal }'onL-.Nnndination and JnfBIIt Bap-
tim....Tbe old atoriea of the anCient Paganism adopted into Christianity....
'1\e Pautheon....Similar inscriptions in Pagan Temples and Christian Church-
a.-Saints lllld Martyrs that Dever thisted 229
CHAP. XXXVI.--Specimens of Pagan piety....Tbe first Orphic Hymn to
...Hymn to DI8Da....Tbe Cree() and Golden v-ofl>ythagoru....
'1\e Morale of Confncins 289
CHAP. brought against Christianity by its early
•-nes, and the Christ181} manner o( answering those cbarges....Tbe
Doctrine of Manes and his History....Demonstration that no anch pe180D aa
1• Christ ever exiated....Admiasion of Bishop Herbert Manb....Admiasio111
10• - eft'ect of the early Fathers 244
CHAP. XXXVIJI.-Christian adduced from Christian Writ-
Lives of the Apostlee....Origin of the Acts of the Apostloe, ·
Jadas, Mark, Luk6, Paui....Tbat there is no dift'erence between the
r.ilila iesends and the canonical Acts of the Apoatlee....'l'hat no ench persons
•).. twelve Apoetleot ever exiated . 260
CHAP. XXXIX.-The Argumentl of Martyrdom....Tbat Martyrdom is
•llle kind of evidence which we have a right to expect....The impropriety
t1 •llpDeDt u it respects the character of God....'the impropriety of the
._ait respects the chanu:ter of Man....That the argument o( martyr-
-iiiiiMIJutely not trne....Specimeu of Martyrology . . 274
tBAP. XL.-The Apoatolic Fathen....SL Bunabu, St. Cle11181lt, SL
St. Polycup, St. Jgnatins....Conwpood811ce of Ignatius with the
'filia ....Reaalt..,.Perfect Parallel of Pagan and Christian Myateriee 287
GIAP. XLI.-The Fathers of the Second Centnry....Papiu Quadratus,
Juetin Martyr, Melito, St. lrezuens, Panteenus, Clemens,
...I-·Tenallian .804
Digotizcd by Google
-'
'fiii. COIQ'UTI. . .
CHAP. XLD.-TIIe Fatberl of tlae Third C.tfrri.... Pice
lameatation of Origen....Hie 8IIIWel' to CeJ.., &. Gnpry St.
Cyprian. . U8
CHAP. XLm.-Tbe of the F<nuth Century....Collltalltine the
Great.•..Motives of his Convenion....Tbe Evidences of Christianity aa theJ
appeared to Coaatantine. Hie oration to the clergy.... the area&
Ecclesiutical Hiatorian....The holy do,. . · 141
CHAP. XLIV.-Tel&imony of Heretics, who denied Chrilt'a hamanity....•
Cerdon, Mareion, Leaeiaa, Apelles, Fall8twi....Who denied Chrilt'a divinity....
Who denied Christ's CrueilWon....Wbo denied Christ's Resnrreetion H4
CHAP. XLV.-The whole of the external evidence ofthe Christian Reli-
pn....The testimony of Lucien, of PhlfliOil....Tbe ..-ae of Haerobiua..;,
Publiua Lentalaa....Tbe Veronica handkerehieC....Tbe testimony or Pilate....A
eoineident Jllllllll86 from Aruobiua....Tbe JIUI8I8 of Joaephua....Tbe celebrated
l1111Cription to Nero....Similar lnseriptioua....Tacitus, Suetonlu, Pliny,
tWI, Plntareh, Juvenal, Emp. Adrian, Emp. Aureliu Antoninnt, Martial,
leiua, Lacian....Liat ot Aneiellt writen. ·. · 176
APPENDIX.-ContlliniJII u aeeount oftb8 variollllmown M.S. eoJrie- ot
the New Testament, and the aollnle of received eopy....Varioal
veJWiou, Greek editiou, and tranllatiODI, of the New Teetament....Spario•
pa.agea in ditto....Falle repreaentatioua....Abbreviatio111....Dates of the r_eitlll
of the Roman Empezora....Names and order oftbe ofthe Chriltilua
f'athel'l and heretiel....Eccleaiutioal Hiltori6u aDd eouneiii....Sketch of the
penal eoaneils....Preaent eeclesiutieal revenues....N1i1Qerical eueat ofCJutD.
anlty....Authorities addueed ln this Diegelis....Tem of 8criptnre broupt Into
Wuatrat.ion ln thil Dieplia. 410
Dig,tizcd Google
PROLEGOME:NA•
........,_
, ON all hands 'tis admitted that the Christian religion ie
matter of most serious importance : it is so, if it be truth,
because in that truth a law of faith and conduct measUl'ing
out to us a proprietr of sentiment and action, which would
otherwise not be mcumbent upon us, is propounded to ·
our observance in this life ; and eternal consequences of
happiness or of 'misery, are at issue upon our observance
or neglect of that law. .
To deny to the Christian religion euch a degree. of im-
portance, is not only to la1mch the keenest sarcasm against
its whole apparatus of supernatural phenomena, but ill
virtually to withdraw its claims and pretensions alto-
gether. For if men, after-having received a divine reve-
lation, are brought to know no more than what they knew
before, nor are obliged to ·do any thing which other-
wise they would not have been equally obliged to do ;
nor have any other consequences of their conduct to hope
or fear, than otherwise would have been equally to be
hoped or feared ; then doth the divine reveal
nothing, and all the pretence thereto, is driven into an
admission of being a misuse of language. On the other
hand, the Christian religion is of scarce less importance,
if it be false ; because, no wise and good man could pos-
sibly be indifferent or unconcerned to the prevalence of
an extensive and general delusion. No good and amiahle
heart could for a moment think of yielding its assent to so
monstrous an idea, as the supposition that error could
possibly be useful, that imposture could be beneficial,
that the heart could be set right by setting the under-
standing wrong, that men. were to be made rational by
being deceived, and rendered just and virtuous by cre-
dulity and ignorance. .
To be in error one's self, is a misfortune ; and if it be
811Ch an error as mightily affects our peace of mind, it is
a very grievous misfortune ; to be the cause of error to
others, either by deceiving ourselves, or by conniv-
ance, and furtherance of the councils \lnd machinations
by which we see that they are deceived, is a crime ; it is
a most cruel triwnph over nature's weakness, a most
!
Dig,tizcd by Google
PROLEGOMENA.
barbarous wrong done to our brother man ; it is- the kind
of wrong which_we should most justly_and keenly resent,
could we be 13ensible of its being put upon ourselves.
A Nero playing upon his harp, in view of a city in
flames, is a less frightful picture than that of the soli-
tary philosopher basking m the serenity of his own
speculations, but inditfurent to the ignorance he could
remove, the error he could correct, or the misery he could
relieve.
.As then there is no falsehood more apparently false,
and more morally mischievous, than to suppose that error
can be useful,· and delusion conducive to happiness and
virtue : so, there can be no place for the medium or al-
ternative of indifference between the truth or falsehood of
the Christian religion. Every argument that could show
it to be a blessing to mankind, being true, must in like
degree tend todemonstrate it to be a curse and a mischief,
being false. ·
If it be true, there can be no doubt that God, its all wise
and benevolent author, must have given to it s-uch su(-
ficient evidence and proofs of its truth, that every crea-
ture whom he hath endued with rational faculties, upon
the honest and conscientious exercise of those faculties,
must be able to arrive at a pe'rfect ·and satisfactory con-
viction. To suppose that there either is, or by any pos-
sibility could be, a natural disinclination or repugnancy
in man's mind, to receive the truths of revelation, is "to
charge God foolishly ;" as if, when he had the making of
man's mind, and the making of his revelation also, he
had not known·how to adapt the one to the other ; nor
is it less than to open the door to every conceivable ab-
surdity and imposture, and to give to the very grossness
and palpability of falsehood, the over evidence,
truth, and reason. If we are to conceive that any thing
may be the more likely to be true, in proportion to its ap·
pearing more palpably and demonstrably false, and that
God can possibly have intended us to embrace that, which
he has so conF>tituted our minds, that they must naturally
suspect and dislike it, why so, then, all principles and
tests of truth and evidence are abolished at once ; we may
as well take poison for our food, and rush on what our
nature shudders at, for safety.
To s-uppose that belief ctr unbelief can either be a virtue
or a crime,·or any man morally better or worse for belief 1
or unbelief, .is to assume that man has a faculty whicla
Dig,tizcd by Google
P&OLEGO¥EIU.
we see and· feel that he has not;• to wit,-a power of
making himself believe, of being convinced when he is
not convinced, and not convinced when he ia: which is a
being and not being at the same time, the sheer end of
"all discourse of reason." d _.....
To suppose that a suitable state of mind, and certain ' .;
previous dispositions of meekness, humility, and teacha- • ••• ••
bleness are necessary to fit us fpr the reception of divine
truth, as the soil must be prepared to receive the seed,
is in like manner to argue preposterously, and to open the
door to the reception of falsehood as well as of truth ; as
the prepared ground will fertilize the tares as prolifically
as the wheat, and is indifferent to either.
' And in proportion as t;he state of mind so supposed to
be necessary, is supposed to be an easily yielding, readily
consenting, and feebly resisting state ; the more facile is
it to the practices of imposture and cunning, and the less
worthy conquest of evidence and reason. The property
of truth is not, surely, to wait till men are in right frames
ofmind to receive it, but to find them wrong, and to set
them right; to find them ignorant and to make them wise;
not created by the mind, but itself the mind's creator; it
is the sovereign. that ascends the throne, and not the
throne that makes the sovereign ; where it reigns. not,
right dispositions cannot be found, and where it reigns,
they cannot be wanting. ·
The highest honour we can pay to truth, is to show our
confidence in it, anrl our desire to have it sifted and ana-
lyzed, by how rough a process soever ; as being well as-
sured that it is tluJt alone that can abide all tests, and which,
lik.
e the genuine gold, will come out all the purer from the
fiercer fire. ·
While there are bad hearted men in the world, and
those who wish to make falsehood pass for truth, they
will ever discover themselves and their .r..ounsel, by their
impatience of contradiction, their hatred of those who
differ from them, their wish to suppress inquiry, and
their bitter resentment, when whatthty call truth, has not
been handled with the delicacy and niceness, which it was
never any thing else but falsehood that required or
needed.
All the mighty question now before us requires, is, at-
tention and ability ; without any presentiment, prejudica-
• This thought is Dr. Whithy's; who, after publishing his voluminowt Com-
on the ScriptDI'I», publi>lhed thia amoag bia " Lut TboapiL"
o;9; ized byGoogle
4 DEFINITIOIU.
tion, or whatever ; but with a perfect and ,
equal willingness to come to such conclusion 88 the evi-
dence of moral demonstration shall offer to our conviction,
and to be only by such canQfis or rules of evidence
as deternune our convictions with respect to all other
questions.
CHAPTER I.
DEFINITIONS.
BY the Christian religion, is to be understood the whole
system of theology found in the Bible, as consisting of
the two volumes of the Old and New Testament; and as
that system now is, and generally has been understood,
by the many, or general body of that large community of
persons professing and calling themselves Christians. '
That this system of thedlogy might not be confounded
with previously existing pretences to divine· revelation,
or held to be a mere enthusiasm or conceit of imagina·
tion, its best and ablest advocates challenge for it, his-
torical data, and affect to trace it up to its origination in
time, place, and circuxqstance, as all other hietorical facts
may be traced. ·
Upon this ground, the doctnnes become facts, and we
are no longer called on to believe, but to investigate and
examine. We are permitted, fearlessly to apply the rules
of criticism and evtdence, by which we measure the credi-
bility of all other facts.
TnE TIME assigned 88 that of the historical origination
of Christianity, is, the three or four first centuries of the
prevalence and notoriety of a system of theology under
that name ; reckoning from the reign of the Roman Em·
peror Augustus, to its ultimate and complete estabHshment
under Constantine Great. .
Any continuance of its history after this time, if
unnecessary to the purpose of an investigation of itls
evidences ; a8 any proof of its existence befcwe this time,
would certainly be fatal to the origination challenged
for it.
THE PLACE assigned as that of the historical origination
of this religion, is, the obscure and remote province of
Judea, which is about equal in extent of territory to the
Dignizca by Google
DEI'U'UTIONS. 5
principality of Wales, being one hundred and sixty miles
in length, from Dan to Beersheba, and forty six miles in
breadth, from Joppa to Bethlehem, between 35 and. 36
degrees east longitude from Greenwich, and between 31
and 33 degrees north latitude, in nearest coasting upon
the eastern extremity of the Mediterranean sea, and in the
neighbourhood of Egypt, Arabia, Phrenicia, and Syria.*
THE CIRCUMSTANCES assigned as those of the historical
basis of this religion, are, that in the of the Roman
Emperors Augustus and Tiberius, and in the province of
Judea, a Jew, of the lower order of that lowest and most
barbarous of all subjects .of the Roman empir"e, e,rose
into notoriety among his countrymen, from the circuffilo
stance of leaving his ordinary avocation as a labouring
mechanic, and travelling on foot from village to village in
that little province, affecting to cure diseases ; that he
preached the doctrines, or some such, as are ascribed to
him in the New Testament ; and that he gave himself out
to be some extraordinary personage : but failing in his
attempt to gain popularity, he was convicted as a male-
factor, and publicly executed, under the presidency and
authority of the Roman procurator, Pontius Pilate. This
extraordinar.y person was called JEsus or JosHuA, a name
o( ordinary occurrence among the Jewish clan ; and
from the of his nativity,· of his more general
residence, he is designated as JEsus oF NAZARETH: the
obecurity of his parentage, or his equivocal legitimaoy
having left him without any name or designation of hts
family or descent.t . ·
These are circumstances which fall entirely within the
' seale of rational proJ:>ability, and draw for no more than an
Cldinary and indifferent testimony of history, to command
file mind's assent. The mere Pelaiion of any historian,
near enough to the time supposed, to guarantee the
)lllbability of his competent information on the subject,
'ftllld have been entitled to our acquiescence. We c.ould
have had no reason to deny or to doubt, what such an
hi!Corian could have had no motive to feign or to exag··
• "Tbe of Palestine liee in a Darrow compaa It comprisea a tract
nearly 200·mi!et in leap, in i1s fall extent, from the river of Egypc
• . .., Gaza to che fonbm booods cowards Damii8CD8, aod perhaps of more than
Htia breldtb, including Perea, from tb$ MedilerRnean -cward 10 die d-t
-Wia."-EJ.aLET.
t IU tDIU tufiPDted, the son of Joseph, Luke iv. 28. It wu no mat-
:t...,.,...,nthat bia motherbad yielded 10 die embraces oC ,.. '1:ll Gabriel ;
r.lillnllly, die _,. oCGod, Lake i. 88.
2•
Dig,tizcd by Google
.Ji
6 DEFINITIONS.
The proof even to demonstration, of these cir-
cumst;&nces, would constitute no step or advance towards
the proof of the truth of the Christian religion ; while the
absence of a sufficient degree of evidenee to render even
these circumstances unquestionable, must, a fOrtiori, be
fatal to the credibility of the still less -circum-
stances founded upon them. •
If there be no absolute certainty that such a man ex-
isted, still less can there be any proof that such and such
were his actions, as have been ascribed to him. Those who
'might liave reasons or prejudices to induce them to deny
that such and such were the actions ascribe'd to such a per-
son, could have none to deny or to conceal the m;re fact
of his existence as a man. To this effect, the testimony
of enemies is as good as that of friends: One competent
historian, (if such can be adduced), speaking of Jesus of
Nazareth as an impostor, would be as.unexceptionable a
witness to the fact of his existence, as one who should
assert every thing that hath ever been asserted of him.
The authentic and unsophisticated testimony of CELsus,
that Jesus of Nazareth wrought miracles by the power of
magic, though it be no proof that Jesus of Nazareth
wrought miracles by the of magic, and no proof
that Jesus of Nazareth wrought miracles, yet as it
avails, it avails to the proof of the conviction of Celsus,
that 8UCh a person as Jesus of. really existed.•
We emphatically say 8UCh a person 8.1'1 Jesus of Nazareth ;
because the name being as common among the
as John or Thomas among Christians ; nothing hil)ders
but there might have been some dozen, score, or hun-
dred Jesuses of Nazareth; so that proof (if it could be
adduced) of the of any one of these, unless
coupled with an accompanying proof that that one was
the Jesus of Nazareth distinguished from all others of that
designation, by the circumstance of having been "cruci-
fied under Pontius Pilate," would be nQ proof of the ex-
istence of the Jesus of the Gospel, of whose identity the
essential predicates are, not alone the name JUUB, and
the Naza1·eth, but the characteristic distinction of
crucijiraon. -
Still less, and further off than ever from any absolute •
identification with the Jesus of the Gospel, is the regal
• It ma nwer be that we hHe no teltimony of Cellos, but only
t"!' tesUmoDJ whick Orip1 bat fatliered en him : wlai!:h is a 'lfiY dill'ereat
tJUDs. .
• Dig,tizcd by Google
DEFINITIONS, 7
title or the .IJMinted, which was not only held
by all the kings of Israel, but so commonly assumed by
all sorts of impostors, conjurors, and pretenders ·to super-
natural communications, that the very claim to it, is in
the gospel itsf>lf, conshlered an indication of impos-
ture, and a reason and rule for withholding our credence :
there being no rule in that gospel.more distinct, than, that
"ifany !Jlan shall say to you; lo, hue is Christ, or lo, lte is there,
him not," Mark xiv., 21. No reason mortl explicit,
than, that "mmiy false Christa should arise," Matt. xxiv. .24,
Luke xxi. 8; and no statement more definitive, than that,
when one of his immediate disciples applied that title to
the Jesus of the gospel, he himself disclaimed it, " and
llraitly charged and commanded them to tell no man that thing,"
Luke ix. 2I,t Matt. xvi. ·.29.
So that should authentic and probable history present
us with a record of the existence af a Christ, pretending
to a supernatilral commission : we should have but that
one· chance for, againsl the man,y chances against the
identity of such a Christ with the persan of the Jesns of
Nazareth.
Should authentic history present us even with a CHRIST
who was CRUCIFIED, though such a record would cer-
tainly come within the list of very <Striking
in relation to the evangelical story ; yet as we certainly
know that CHRIST was one of ·the most· ordinary titles
that religious impostors were wont to assume, and CRu- •
Ctl'IXION, an ordinary punishment consequent on detectecl
imposture, a CHRIST CRUCIFIED, WOUld by llO means iden-
tity the "Je81JJJ Christ, and Him crucified," of the New Tes-
tament.
The testimony of TACITus however, which we shall
eonsider in its chronological order, purports to be more
tpeeifi.c than this, and to come up nearly to the full
IIDOilnt of the predications necessary to establish the iden-
6lation required " Christ, who 1r11s ptll to death under the
Jlrocurator Pontiw Pilate."t This is either genuine,
• ben the heathen Prince Cgnu, culled, by Isaiah, the Christ of God•
....faiab xlv. 1.
t Tlais is DOt the usual 1!81188 given to these words, but it is borne out by
t!llllltioOB to the pbariseee, " What think ye of Christ! whose son is' he 1"
-. uii. 42. A mode of speaking that no man could nse with reference to
llllllelf: . .
4 It waata oaly addition of the name, J EBUM. It is however hardly
.., that two claimants of the name Christ, should ha\'e been crucitlerl under
t.. .pemor.- .
Dig,tizcd by Google
s DEnNITIONS.
authentic, and valid evidence to the full extent to which
it purports to extend ; or it is the forgery of a wonderfully
adroit and well-practised sophisticator. .
The extent of its purport will be matter ()f subsequent
· investigation. Our respect for it, in the present stage of
our process, stands in guarantee of our willingness and
desire to receive and admit whatever bears the character
of that sort of rational evidence, which is admitted on -all
other questions; while we lay to the line and the plummet,
that irremeable and everlasting border of distinction that
separates the bright focus of truth and certainty' from the
misty indistinctness and confusion of fallacy and fable.
But further off, even to an infinite remoteness from any
designation or to the person of the crucified
Jesus, are the complimentary and idolatrous epithets of
honour or of worship, which the heathen nations, from the
remotest antiquity, were in the habit of applying to their
gods, demigods, and heroes, who from the various serviciea
which they were believed to ha"e rendered to mankind,
were called BafJiours of the world, redeemers of mankind,
physicians of souls, &c., _
and addressed by every one of
the even, not excepting one of those which
Christian p1ety has since confined and appropriated to the
Jewish Jesus.
Nor are any of the supernatural, or extraordinary cir-
cumstances, which either tDith truth .or it, are
asserted or believed of the man of at all cha-
racteristic or distinctive of that· person, from any of the
innumerable host of heaven-descended, virgin-born, won-
der-working sons of God, of whom the like supernatural
and extraordinary circumstances were asserted and be-
lieved, with as great faith, and with as little 1-eason.
To have been the whole world's desideratum, to have
been foretold by a long series of undoubted prophecies, '
to have been attested by a glorious display of indisputable
miracles, to have revealed the most mystical doctrines,
to have acted as never man acted, and to have suffered as
never man suffered, were among the most ordinary cre-
dentials of the gods and goddesses with which Olympus
groaned. ·
As our business in this treatise is, with stubborn fact .
.and absolute evidence, I shall subjoin. so much of the
Christian creed as is absolutely unquestionably of
• Pagan origin, and which, ·though not found as put toge-
ther in this .precise formulary; is certainly to be deduced
Dig•tizcd by Google
CHRISTIAN AND P4GAK CREEDS COLLATED. 9
from previously existing Pagan writings. Th4t only, .
which could not, or would not, have expreesed the
fair sense of any form of Pagan faith, can be pecu-
liarly Christian. That only which the Christian finds
tha:t he has to say, of which a worshipper of the gods
could not have said the same or the like before him, is
Christianity.
CHAPTER II.
THE CHRISTIAN AND PAGAN CREEDS COLLATED.
\I
TM Chn.tian Creed.
I. I believe in God the Fa-
.ther Almighty, maker of hea-
ven and earth.
2. And in Jesus Christ his
ooly son our Lord, who was
cooceived by the Holy Spirit.
3. Born of the Virgin Mary.
4. Suffered under Poutius
Pilate.
6. Was crucified.
6. Dead and buried.
'l. He descended into helJ.
8. The third day he rose
... &om the dead.
9. He a.>eeoded into heaven.
JO. And sitteth at the right
band of God the :Father Al-
JIIi&bty.
IJ. From whence he shall
_., to judge the quick and
...ad.
lt. I believe in the Holy
....
13. .The Holy Catholic
CMrch.
14. The Communion of
......
16. The forgiveness of sins.
The Pagan Creed. · '
I believe in God the Father
Alr_nighty, maker of heaven and
earth.
And in Jasius* Christ his
only son our Lord, who was
conceived by the Holy' Spirit.
Born of the Virgin Electra.
Suffered under (tDiwm it
might
Was struck by a thunder-
bolt.
Dead and buried.
He descended into hell.
The third day he rose again
from the dead.
He ascended into heaven.
And sitteth at t:le right hand
of God the .Father Almighty.
From whence he shall come
to judge the quick and the
dead. ·
I believe in the Holy Ghost•
The Holy Catholic Divinity.
The Communion of Saints.
The forgiveness ofsins.
• ,. JMi.-que Pater, genae a quo prineipe nostrum." And f'ather Jasius, from
1lllela Prioce our race ill deiCellded.-V1ao1L.
Dig,tizcd by Google
10 C.BRIITU.N AND PAGAN c•EEDS COLLATED.
16. The resurrection of the
body.
17. And the life everlasting.
This creed, though not to be
found in this form in the Chris-
tian Scriptures, is evidently de-
ducible from them as their sense
and purport. . ·
"This creed still bears the
name of the JJ.postle's Ureed.
From the fourth century down-
wards it was almost generally
considered as a production of
the Apostles. All, however,
who have the least knowledge
of antiquity, look upon this
opinion as entirely false and
destitute of all foundati<>n.
There is much more reason in
the opinion of those who think
that tnis creed was not all
composed at once, but from ·
small beginnings was imper-
ceptibly augme'ltcd, in propor-
tion to the growth of heresy,
and according to the exigen-
cies and circumstances of the
church, from which it was de-
signed to banish the errors that
daily arose."-Mosheim, vol. i.
p. 116, 117.
The immortality of the aouL
And the life everlasting.
This creed, though not to be
found in this form in the Pagan
Scriptures, is evidently deduci-
ble from them as their sense
and purport.
The reader is to throw into
this scale, an equal quantity of
allowance and apology to that
claimed · by the advocate of
Christianity for the opposite.
He will only observe that on
this side, apology ·and pallia-
tion for a known and acknow-
ledged imposture and forgery
for so many ages palmed upon
the world, is not needed.
It is not the Pagan c'reed
that was imposed upon man-
kind, under a false superscrip-
tion, and ascribed to an autho-
rity from which it was known
not to have proceeded. Whe-
ther a church, which stands
convicted of having forged its
creed, would have made any
scruple of forging its gospels ; •
is a problem that the reader will
solve according to the influence
of prejndice or .probability on
his mind.
INFERENCE•
.As then, the so called Apostle's Creed, is admitted to
have been \vritten by no such persons as the Apostles,
and with respect to the high authority which ha8 for so
maay ages been claimed for it, is a convicted imposture
and forgery ; the equity of rational evidence will allow
weight enough, even to a probable conjecture, to overthrow
all that remains · of its pretensions. The probability is,
that it is really a ·Pagan document,' and of Pagan origi-
nation ; since, even after the trifling alteration and sub-
stitution of one name perhaps for another, to make it
subserve its new application, it yet exhibits a closer resem-
Dig,tizcd by Google
STATE OF TH. HJ:ATHJ:K WOIIJ.D, 11
blance to its Pagan lrtock, than to the Christian Item on
which it.has been engrafted.
By a remarkable oversight of the kuping• and congrui-
ties of the system, the Christian creed has omitted to
call for our belief of the miracles or prophecies which
constitute .its evidence, or for our practice of the duties
which should be thl:l test of its utility.
If then, as the learned und judicious Jeremiah Jones,
in his excellent treatise on the canonical authority of the
New Testament, most justly observes, "In order to es-
tablish the canon of the New Te11tament, it be of absolute
necessity that the pretences of all other books to canonical
authority be first examined and refuted :"• much more
must it be absolutely necessary to establish the paramoi:mt
and distinctive challenges of Christianity, that we should
be able to refute and overthrow all the pretences of pr&
viously existing religions, by such a cogency and fair-
ness of argument, as in being fatal to them, shall admit of
no application to this, which battering down their air-
built castles, shall, when brought to play with equal force
on Christianity, leave its defences unshakeo. and its beauty
unimpaired.
CHAPTER III.
STATE OF THE HEATHEN WORLD.
IT is manifestly unworthy of any cause, in itself con-
taining an intrinsic and independent excellence, that its
advocates should condescend to set it off by a foil, or to
act as if they thought it necessary to decry and disparage
the pretensions of others, in order to magnify and exalt
their own. It is certain that the vileness of falsehood
can add nothing to the glory of truth. Showing the va-
rious systems of heathen idolatry to be, how vile soever,
would be adducing neither evidence nor even presurf\ption.
for the proof of the divinity of a system of religion that
was not so vile, or even if you please, say infinitely supe-
rior; as a beautiful woman would certainly feel it to be
but an ill compliment to her beauty, to have it constantly
obtruded upon h.er observance, how hideously defonned
and monstrously ugly were those, than whom she was 80
more beautiful. ,
• Vol I. p. 16. 8vo. Ed.
o;9; ized byGoogle
I
l.t· ITATI! OF THE HEATHEN WOaLD.
As it would not be fair to take up our notion of the
Christian religion, from the lowest and most ignorant of
its professors, and still less, perhaps, to estimate its merits,
by the representations which its known and avowed ene·
mies would be likely to give ; the balance of equal justice
on the other side, will forl;lid our forming our estimate of
the ancient paganism from the misconceptions of its l.in·
worthy votaries, or the interested detractions and exag·
gerations Qf its Christian opponents. ·
The only just and honourable estimate will be that
which shall judge of as Christians would wish
their own religion to be Judged-by its own absolute docu·
ments, by the representations. of its advocates, and the
admissions of its adversaries.
When it is in mind, that a supernatural origin·.
ation or divine authority is not claimed for these sye·
terns of theology, there can be no occasion to fear their
rivalry or encroachment on. systems foUnded on such a
claim ; and still less, to decry, vituperate, and scan·
dalize these, as any means of exalting or magnifying
those. There cannot be the least doubt, that in dark and
barbarous ages, the rude and unlettered part of manki.nd
would grossly pervert the mystical or allegorical sense,
if such there were, in the forms of religion propounded
to their observance or imposed on their simplicity ; while
it is impossible, that those enlighted and philosophical
characters, who have left us in their writings the most un·
doubted evidence of the greatest shrewdness of intellect,
extent of inquiry, and goodness of heart, should have un· '-
derstood their mythology in no better or higher signifi·
caney than as it was understood by the ignorant of their
own persuasion, or would be l,"epresented by their ene-
mies, who had the strongest possible interest .in defaming
and decrying it. When the worst is done in this way,
Christianity would be but little the gainer by being
weighed in the same scales. Should we be allowed to
.fix on the darkest day of her eleven hundred years of dark
ages, and to pit the grossest notions of the grossest igno·
ranee of that day, as specimens of Christianity ; against
the views which Christians have been generally pleased
to give as representations of paganh!m ; how would they
abide the challenge, '' look on this picture and on this ?"
Those doctrines only, of which no form or forms of the
previously paganism could ever pretend the same
or the like doctrmee, OJLil be properly and distinctively
Dig•tizcd by Google
lS
called CAristitm. That ·degree of excellence, whose very
lowest·.Stage is raised above the very highest acme of
what is known and admitted to have been no more than
human, can ·alone put in a challenge to be regarded aa
divine. 'I'/uJt which was not known before, is that only
which a subsequent revelation can have taught.
To justify the claims, therefore, of such a subsequent
revelation, we must make the full allowance, and entirely
strike out of the equation, all quantities estimated to their
fullest and utmost appreciation, which are, and have
been claimed as the property of pre-existent systems ;
and as they were divine, while it is pretended that
this is, the discovery of a resemblance between the one
and the other, can only be feared by those who are oon·
scious that they are making a false pretence. Resem·
blance to a counterfeit is, in this assay, proof of a coun·
terfeit. Brass may sometimes be brought to look like gold,
but the pure gold had never yet the ring and imperfections
ofany baser metal. •
At the time alleged aa that of the birth of Je8U8, all na-
tions were living in the peaceful profession and practice
of the several systems of religious faith which they had,
as nations or as families, derived from their ancestors, in
an antiquity lying far beyond the records o)" historical
commemoration. Christians generally elaim for this
epoeha of time the truly honourable distinction of being
the pacific age.• The benign influence of letters and
philosophy, was at this time extensively diffused through
oountries which had previously .lain under the .
ignorance ; and nations, whose manners had been savage
aDd barbBI'Ous, were civilized by the laws and commerce
of the Romans. The Christian writer Oro.itJJ, maintaine
that the temple of Janus was then shut, and that wars
and discords had.absolutely ceased throughout the world:
which, though an allegorical, and very probably an hy·
perbolical representation of the matter, is at least an
honourable testimony to the then state of the heathen
! world. · . .
1 The notion of one supreme being was universal. No
calumny could be more egregious, than that whieh charges
the pagan world with ever having lost sight of that
notion, or compromised or surrendered its paramount
importance, in all the varieties and modifications of pagan
• KOiblim, VoL J; C..,. L
s
Dig,tized by Google
14 STATE OF THE HEATHEN WORLD.
piety.• · This predominant notion (admit& Mosheim)
showed itself, even through the darkness of the groesest
idolatry.
The candour which gives the Protestant Christian
credit for his professed belief in the unity of God, even
again:3t the conflict of his own assertion of believing at
the same time in a trinity of three persons, which are each
of them a God ;· the fairness which respects the dis-
tinction which the Catholic Christian challenges between
his Latria and Doulia, his worship of the Almighty, and
his veneration of the images of the saints, will never
suppose that the divinity of the inferior deities was under-
stood in any sense of to the.alone supreme
and undivided godhead of theu "one first-one greatest- .
only Lord of all."
The evidences of Christianity must be in a labouring
condition indeed, if they require us to imagine that a
Cicero, Tacitus, or Pliny were worshippers- of gods of
w;ood and stone ; or to force. on <!ur apprehensi?ns a
v10lence, as that we should rmagme that the trughty mmd
that had enriched the world with Euclid's Elements of
Geometry, could have bowed to the deities of Euclid's
Egypt, and worshipped leeks and crocodiles.
Orthodoxy itself will no longer suggest its·reeistance to
the only faithful and rational account of the matter, so
elegantly given us by Gibbon.t " The various modes of
worship which prevailed in the Roman world, were all
· considered, by the people, as equally true,-by the philoso-
. pher, as equally false,-and by the magistrate, as equally
useful.
" Both the interests of the prieSts, and the credulity of
the people were sufficiently respected. In their writings
and conversation, the philosophers of antiquity asserted
the independent dignity of reason ; but they resigned
their actions to the commands of law and custom. View-
ing with a smile of pity and indulgence the various errors
of the vulgar,· they diligently practised the ceremonies of
their fat}:lers, devoutly frequented the temples of the
gods ; and sometimes condescending to act a part on the
theatre of superstition, they concealed the sentiments of
· • An tM iDf'erior deitiel in Homer, an u &hal addre.iac tbe
IIIIJINIDII Jovn:
" Oh lintaDd IJ'IIIltelt, GOD ! by &ods adored,
We own thy power, oar father aod oar lord."-.DiG4.
t DecliDe aDd FaB oftbe Roman Empire, voL Lobap. I. p. 48.
I'I'.ATE 01' TBE BUTBEN WORLD. 1&
'
an atheiet under the sacerdotal robe. Re8801lers of euoh
a temper were scarcely inclined to wrangle about their
respective modes of faith, or of worship. It was indiffer-
ent to them what shape the folly of the multitude might
choose to assume ; and they approached with the same
inward contempt and the same exteJ.:Dal reverence to the
altars of the Lybian, the Olympian, or the Capitoline
Jupiter."• . .
It was a oommon adage among the Greeks, ,_,._.
for fooltl ; and the same proverb obtained
among the shrewder Romans, in the saying, Vulgus vult
deoipi-decipiatur, " Tht ComtnOft people be dtuioed-
lueitlcd.kt them be."
The Christian, perhaps, may boast of his sinoerity, but
a moment's thought will admonish him how little virtue
there is in such a quality, when it forces a necessity of
hypocrisy on others. Sincerity should be safe on both
sides of the hedge. It was never taken for a virtue il\ an
unbeliever.
"Every nation then had its respective gods, over which
presided one more excellent than the rest ;" and the de-
gree of this pre-eminency, as versified by Pope from
the 6th book of the Iliad, is an absolute vindication of
the Pagan world from the charge of the grosser and more
reTolting sense of Polytheism. They were virtually
None oftheir divinities were thought to approach
·nearer to the supremacy of the father of gods and men,
than th.e various orders ofthe Cherubim and Seraphim, to
the God and Father of Jesus Christ,.
-•• - - Who but behold bil utmoet lkiiU ofr)ory,
And far off, hie 1tep1 adore."
So in the language of their Diad (and language has nothing
more sublime) we read the august challenge :-
" Let down 0111' colden everlutina chain, .
Wboae strona embrace holds heaven, and earth, aDd main ;
Strive all of mortal or immortal birth,
To draa by this the thanderer down to earth.
Ye atrive in vain. If I but lift this band,
• I he.ave the beaveua, the ocean, and the laud;
For mcb I reip unbounded and above, .
And ncb are men, and pds, compared to Jove."
Mosheim, upon an·evident misunderstanding, '888Utnee
that their supreme deity, in comparison to whom the
• Gibbon'• Deeline and Fall oftbe Roman Empire, vol. i. p. •9, bO,
Dig,tizcd by GoogIe
16 STATE 01' THE HEATHEN WORLD.
gods and were as far off from art absolute
divinity, as ever were the guardian angels and tutelary
laints of Christianity; was himself believed to be subject
to the rigid empire of the fates, or what the philosophers
called titmal necemty. . But the word Jau, by its derivation
from the natural indication--of command-FIAT! Be it so;
may satisfy us, that nothing more was meant, than that
the supreme deity was bound by his own engagements,
that his word was irrevocable, and that all his actions
were determined and guided by the everlasting law of
righteousness, and conformed to the counsels and sanctions
of his own unerring mind. So that He, and He alone,
could say with truth, .
" NecelllityaodCbance
Approach me DOt., aod what I will-is FATIC. "
"One thing, indeed," says our authority, (Mosheim),
" appears at first sight very remarkable-that the variety
of religions and gods in the heathen world,- neither pro-
duced wars nor dissentions among the different nations."•
A diligent and candid investigation of historical data will
demonstrate, .that from this general rule, there is no valid
and satisfactory instance of exception. The Greeks may
have carried on a war to recover lands that had been
distrained from the possession of their ; and the
Egyptians may have revenged the slaughter of their
crocodiles ; but these wars ·never proposed as their
object, the insolent intolerance of forcing thtir modes
of faith or worship on other nations. They were not
offended at their neighbours for serving other div\nities,
but they could not bear that theirs, should be put to
death. And if, perhaps, where we read the word divini-
ties, we should understand it to mean nothing more than
fatJourites ; and instead of saying that people worshipped
such and such things, that they were excessively or fool-
ishly attached to them ; Considering that such language
owes its original modification to Christian antipathies, it
might be brought back to a nearer affinity to probability,
as well as to charity. An Egyptian might be ai fond of
onions, as a Welshman of leeks, a Scot of thistles, or an
Irishman of shamrock, without taking their gal"-
bage for omnipotence.t ·
• Their religion had not made·foole of them. · .
t Who that wi&hed to be a thriving wooer, ever hc.itated to drop on his knee
and adore his miam-I " With my body I thee wonhip."-Matrimonial
Benriu. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
OF THE JJE.A.TBEN WOJlLD, n
" Each nation suffered its neighbours to follow their
own method of worship, to adore their own gods, to
enjoy their and ceremonies, and discovered no
displeasure at their diversity of sentiments in religious
matters. They all looked upon the world as one great
empire, divided into various provinces, over every one
ofwhich, a certain order of divinities presided, and that_,
therefore, none could Mhold with contempt the gods ol
other nations, or force strangers to pay homage to theirs.
The Romans exercised this toleration in the amplest
manner. As the sources from which all men's ideas are
derived, are the same, namely, from their senses, there
being no other inlet to the mind but thereby, there is
nothing wonderful in the general prevalence of a same-
ness oi the-ideas of human in all regions and all
ages of the world. The affections of fear, grief, pain,
hope, pleasure, gratitude, &c., are as common to man as
his nature as a man, and could not fail to produce a cor-
responding similarity in the objects of his superstitious
veneration. To have nothing in common with the
already established notions of mankind, to bear no fea-
tures of resemblance to their hallucinations and follies, to
be nothing like them, to be to nothing so unlike, should
be the essential predications and necemzry credentials of
the " wisdom which is from above." ·
.It has, however, been alleged by learned men, with
eonviricing arguments of probability, ''that the princi-
pal deities of all the Gentile nations resembled each
other extremely, in their essential characters ; and if so,
their receiving the same names could not introduce inueh
confusion into mythology, since they were probably
derived from one common source. If the Tlwr of the
ancient Celts, waa the same in dignity, character, and
attributes with the JupiUr of the Greeks and Romans,
where was the impropriety of giving him the same name?
Diu JOI1is is still the Latin form for our Thor's day.
When the Greeks found in other countries deities that
resembled their own, they persuaded the worshippers of
those foteign gods that their deities were the same that
were honoured in Greece, and were, indeed, themselves
conVinced that this was the case. In consequence of this,
the Greeks gave the names of their llO(ls to those of other
nations, and the Romans in this folfowed their example.
Hence we find the names of Jupiter, Mars, Mercqry,
Venus, &c., freqllently mentioned in the more receat
s•
ig,tizcd by Google
18 IT.lTJ: OF THE HEATHEN WOJll.D.
:monuments and inscriptions which have been found among
the Gauls and Gennans, though.the ancient of
those countries had worshipped no gods under. such de-
nominations."-Note iA .Mos/l£im. . .
To have been goddess-born, heaven-descended; to have
"lived and died as none could live and die," to have been
believed to have done and suffered great things for the
service of mankind, but above all, to have propitiated
the wrath of the Superior Deity, and to have conquered
the invisible author's of mischief, in their was such
an overwhelming draft on the tender feelings, ·the excite-
ment of which is one of the strongest sources of pleasure
in our nature, that the best hearts and the weakest heads
never gave place to the coolness and apathy of scepti-
cism. Not a doubt was entertained that a similar seria
of adventures was proof of.one and the same hero, and
that the Grecian Apollo, the Phmnicia.n Adonis, the
Esculapius of Athens, the Osiris of Egypt, the Christ of
India, were but various names of the self-same deity; so
that nothing was so easy at any time, as the business of
conversion. Not incredulity, but credulity, is the charae>-
teristic propensity of mankind.
A disposition to -adopt the religious ceretnonies of other
nations, to mUltiply the objects of faith, to listen witb
eagerness to any thing that was offered to them under·a
profession of novelty, to believe every pretence to divine
revelation, and to embrace every creed, presents itself in
the history of almost every society of men, and is found
as inalienable a characteristic of uncivilized, or but
tially civilized man, as cunning is of the fox, and courage
of the lion. Unbelief is no sin that ignorance was evel'
capable of being guilty of ; to 8U8pect it of the Gentile
nations previous to the Christian era, ie to outrage all
inferences of our own experience, and to suppose the
human race in former times to have been a different species
of animals from any of which the wonder-loving and credu-
lous of our own days could be the descendants.
· Of alf miracles that could possibly ·be imagined, the
miracle of a miracle not being believed, would be the
most miraculous, the most incongruous in its character,
and the nearest to the involving a contradiction in ita
terms. If proof of a truth so obVious were not super-
fluous, the Christian might be commended to the consi-
deration of authorities, to whose deoision he is traiaecJ
and disposed to submit.
STATE OF THE HEATREM WORLD. 19
His Paul of Tarsus finds, in the city of Athens, an altar
erected to the Unknotm Goda ;• and taking what Le Clerc
considers a justifiable liberty with the inscription, ®mpli·
ments the citizens on such a proof of their predisposi·
tion to receive the God whom he propounded to them, or
any other, as well without evidence as with it, and to be
converted without putting him to the trouble of a miracle.
Acts xvii. 22.
The inhabitants of Lystra, upon only hearing of the
most equivocal' and ·suspicious ease of wonderment that
could well be imagined, even that a lame beggar, who
might have been hired for the purpose, or probably had
never been lame at all, had been cured, or imagined him-
self cured, by two entire strangers, itinerant Therapeutm,
or tramping quack-doctors, without either ·inquiry or
doubt, set up the err, "That Jupiter and Mercury were
come down from heaven in the shape of these quack-doc-
tors;" and with all the doctors themselves could do to
check the-intenfJity of their devotion, "scarce t-utrained they
1M peopk that they had not done •acri.fice."-Acts xiv. _18.
• " Qaamvia plurali munero Ierretar iDicriptio ay•CIH1To&f "•o•f reete de Deo
kao&o, locutua eat Paulu.e. Quia plurali nwnero continetar eiogalaria."-Cleric.
11. G. A. 52. p. 374. There ill llllfficient evidence, however, that Paul reed tile
illlcription correctly ; eo that the commentator's ready q'llibble ie DOt called lOr.
Tbe varioae tr&DIIationeci'fen of this text, make.pod specimen ofthe difficahy
fJL eominc at the real881W8 of any aucient legende.
THE G:&JCEJt, THE LA.TUf.
%'1'..t.&f le o 1Lr11lo' ev ,..a. n Stsna autem Paulae in medio Are&-
,...,. •n c.•cf(l•f .A"'rt'c.•o• "'"" '""""" JMIIi, ait, Viri AtbeD-u., per olllllia
• """" qu.ui 8Dp811tit0. voe upicio.
1. Dll. LA:&DIIllt:&'l T&A.!fiLATIOl'f•
.. hal, thererore, .iandinc up in the midst of the Areopap, said, Ye 111811 or
.Adaeal, I perceive that ya are in all thinp very relicioaa.''
Z. t1NITA:&IA.!f VERIIOI'i. .
«Then Pallletood in the midllt of the coart or Areor-aae, and IDI, Ye-
fl AtbeDI, I perceive that ye are exceadinflly addicted to the wolllhip af demo-,••
8. A&CHBiaHOP l'iJCWCOKB01 YE&IJOI'i.
"Ye- of Atbeal, I peroeive that in all tiJi.n&s ye are eomewhat too reli-
p..••
4, COMMON Vli:RIIOI'i.
" Ye 111811 of Ath-, I perceive that in al1 thifl&e ye are too aapantit:io-."
TJ.e vario1111 tranllaton, however, did DOt mean exactlr_to diloover, that nli-
;-.andRpentition were convertible il 0110 tllinJ, and balf a dozen
•81110da· .
Dig,tizcd by Google
IT£TJt 01' THE IEWS.
CHAPTER IV.
THE STATE OF THE JEWS.
THE grand exception to the harmonious universaiism of
religions, and to that entire prevalence, as far at1 religion
was concerned, of "peace on earth and good will among
men," which arose from the practical convictioa of a
sentiment which had passed into ·a common proverb,
INJURIA:, Dus cull£," that " Til£ .
torongs of tM
Kods tDere 1M conceMiB of tilt- gods," occurred among a
and misanthropic horde of exclusively super-
stitious barbarians, who, from their own and the best
account that we have of them, were from
their captivity, by a Babylonian prince, on the sterile
soil of Judea, about twenty-three hundred years ago;
and, by the exclusive, unsocial, and uncivilized character
of their superstition, were exposed to frequent wars
and final dispersion. The .exclusive character of their
superstition, and the constant intermarriage with their
own caste or sect, have, to this day, preserved to them, in
all countries, a distinct character. These barbarians, who
resented the consciousness of their inferioaoity in the scale
of rational being, by an invincible hatred of the whole
human race, without wit or invention to devise to
themselves any ortginal system of theology, adopted from
time to time the various conceits of the. various n.ations,
by whom their rambling and predatory tribes had been
held in subjugation. They plagiarized the religious
legends of the nations, among whom their characteristic
idleness and inferiority of understanding had caused them
to be vagabonds ; pretended that the furtive patch-
work was a system of theology intended by heaven
for their exclusive benefit. There is, however, nothing
extraordinary in this ; the miserable and the wretched
always seek to console them.selves for the absence.of real
advantages, by an imaginary counterbalance of spiritual
privilege. An' let them be the caterers, they shall always
be the favourites of Omnipotence, and their affiictione in
this world, shall be to be overpaid with a ·" far more
and eternal weight of glory,'; in another.
In some mstances it will be found, that the means of
detecting the original idea has been washed down the
/
Dig,tizcd by Google
I'J'ATE OJ' THE JEWS. !1
etream of time. The Jews, who, probably, always were,
as they are at present, the old-clothu-mm of the world,
have had but little difficulty in scratching up a sufficient
freshness of nap upon borrowed or stolen theology, to
disguise its original character. Very often, however, has
their idleness betrayed their policy, and left us scarcely so
much as an alteration of names to put us to the trouble of
a doubt.
They give us the story of the sacrifice of Ipthegenia,
the daughter of Agamemnon, as an original legend of a
judge of Israel, who had immolated his daughter to
Yahouh, or JA.o, without so much as respecting the wish
to be deceived, not even being at the pains to vary the
name of the heroine of the fable. By a division of the
syllables into two words, Jpthi-gtni is literally Jeptha's
dalighter; and even the name of Mons himPelf, as it
stands in the Greek text, is composed of the same
consonant letters as MtSEs, the Arahian name of Bacchus,
of whom precisely the same adventures were related,
and believed, many ages before there existed a race
known on earth as the nation of Israel, or any individual
of that nation capable of committing either truth or false-
hood to written documents. There have been dancing
bears, sagacious pigs, and learned horses in the world,
but the Jews are as innocent as any of them of the
faculty of original invention. · ·
Their strong man (SamsQn) carrying away the gates of
Gaza, is scarcely a various reading from the story of
Hercules' pillars at Gades, Cades, or Cadiz.
That this melancholy race of rambling savages had
derived the principal features of their theology from the
deities of Egypt, is demonstrable from the literal identity
of the name of the god of Memphis, JAo, with that of the
boasted god of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, who are
each of them believed to have been either natives or very
long residents of that country.
Moses himself, on the face of their own report, was
confessedly an Egyptian priest. The Jewish Elohim
were the decans of the Egyptians; the same as the genii
o( the months and planets among the Persians and Chal-
deans; and JA.o, or Yahouh, considered merely as one
of these beings generically called Elohim ·or Alehim,
appears to have been only a national or topical deity.
We find one of the presidents of the Jewish horde,
negociating with a king of the Amorites, precisely on
o;9; ized byGoogle
8/l'ATE OF THE JEWS.
terms of a .common understanding betWeen them.
" Wilt thou pO.ssess that which Chemosh, thy Alehim,
giveth thee to possess? So whomsoever JAo, OUJ' Alehim,
shall drive out from before us, them will we
Nor is it at all concealed, that the power of JAo, 88 much
88 of any other topical god, was confined to the province
over which he presided. "The JAo Alehim of Israel,
fought for Israel,f and JAo drave out the. inhabitants o£
the mountain ; but could not drive out the inhabitants of
the valley, because they had chariots of iron.":j: The
God of Israel was no match for the tutelary deities of
the valley. The first . commandment of the decalogue
involves a virtual recognition of the existence, -and rival,
if not equal claims of other deities. " Thou shalt be
rwnt otMr goiU but me," is no mandate that could have
issued from one who had been entirely satisfied of his
own supremacy, and that those to whom he had once
revealed himself, were in no danger of giving a preference
to the idols of the Gentiles. To say nothing of the highest
implied compliment to those idols, in the confession of
JAo, that he was jealous of his people's attachment. "I
th£ Lord thy God am a God," Exod. xx. He W88
_Lord of heaven and earth,·&c. in such sense as the Empe-
ror of China, the Grand Sultan, &c.,-by
It would be difficult to imagine, and SUJ'ely unpossible
to find, among ali the formularies of ancient Paganism, any
manner of speaking ascribed to their deities more ti'llly
contemptible, more engregiously absurd and revolting tO
common sense, than the language which their lively
oracles put into the mouth of their deity. Sometimes he ia
described 88 roaring like a lion, at others as like
a snake, as blll'ning with rage, and unable to restram his
own passions, as kicking, smiting, cursing, swearing,
smelling, vomiting, repenting, being grieved at his heart,
his fury coming up in his face, his nostrils smoking, &,c.
For which our Christian divines have invented the
apology, "that these things are spoken thus, in accommo-
dation to the weakness of human conceptions," and
as humanly suffering ; without, .however, al-
lowing benefit of the same apology, to throw any sort of
palliation over the grossnesses of the literal sense of the
Pagan theology. It is well known, that the Pagan wol"'
• Judges xi. 24. ' . t JO.bat L 42.
t Judp i. 19. And fi.Ote tttell, that this Chemoah, called in L KiDp zi. '1. the
abomi11ation of Moab, ill none other than the Cbriltiao Me.iall, or S.. of Ricbl--
ouo-, of Malachi iii. 20, or iv. 2.
Dig; ized by GO sle
STATE 01' THII: JII:WI•
.,.
by no means involved spch a real prostration ot
mtelleet, and such an absolute surrender of the senses
and reason, as is involved in the Christian notion of pay·
ing divine honours. It often meant no more than a habit
of holding the thing so said to be worshipped, in a par-
ticular degree of attachment, as many Christiane carry
about them a lucky penny, or a curious pebble, keep-
sakes or mementos of past prosperity, or something which
is to recall to their minds those agreeable assOciations of
idea, which .
" Liuping haunt the pe8IMit ipOt
On mem'ry'awuae."_
•
Thus the Egyptian's worship of onions, however at
first view ridiculous and· childish, and exposing him to
the scorn and sarcasm both of Christian and Heathen
satirists ;• in hie_own view and representation of the
matter, (which surely is as fairly to be taken into the
account as the representations of those who would never
giTe themselves the trouble to investigate what had one&
moved their laughter,) by no means implied that he took
the onion itself to be a god, or forgot or neglected its
culinary uses as a vegetable. The respect he paid to it
referred to a high and mystical order of astronomical
speculations, and was purely emblematieal. The onion
presented to the eye of the Egyptian visionary, the most
CIIUious type in nature of the disposition and arrange-
IDQt of the great solar system. " Supposing the root
and top of the head to represent the poles, if you
eut any one transversely or diagonally, you will find
it divided into the same number of spheres, including
each other, counting from the sun or centre .to the cir-
CIOIIICerenee, as· they knew the motions or courses of the
n (or planets) divided the fluid system of the heavens
iate; and eo the divisions represented the courses of ·
1lilaee orbs." This observation of Mr. Hutchinsont has
M been made or borrowed by Dr. Shaw, who observes, •
.,_ "the onion, upon account of the root of it, which
...uta of many coats enveloping each other, like the
... (orbits) in the planetary system, was another of their
vegetables."t 'Our use of these observations, how·
• Porram et cepe1lefu violare et fiaDgere morn.
0 .acturm-, quibu J.c -tar in bortil
Namina I · Javeaal Sat. 16. lin. 9. 11.
.. to eiolate orad breck by llttiftl tAe led Gflll otliolu. Jl
W. 8Grtlml tAu• cliftnitiu ore bom I ·
f&it W.U, voL 4. p. 261. t Slaaw'a Tranll, p.IN.
by Google
•
.24 STATE or THE JEWS.
ever, is only to supply a demonstration that the grossest
forms of apparent nonsense and absurdity in which
Paganism ever existed, were never more distressed for
a good excuse, or the pretence of some plausible emble-
matical and mystical sense, than Judaism, and that if
we acquit the Jewish religion from the charge of extreme
folly, there was never any religion on earth that could be
fairly convicted of it.
The plurality of the Hebrew word. ALEIM, for God, in
the first chapter of Genesis; and in the Old Testament
throughout, is urged by ort,hodox divines as an argument
for their favourite doctrine of the Holy Trinity.
The Jews ·find their text thus burthened with a sense
which they themselves disclaim. A similar plural word-
THE RE.&VRNs-expressive of precisely the same sense,
where plurality is by no means the leading idea, is found
in our own language, and among all nations whose ideas
of deity were drawn,as our own evidently are, from the
visible heavens, the imaginary ceiling of an upper story,
in which the Deity was supposed to reside.
The Hebrew o·ow Shemmim, and the Chaldee M"ttlr
Shemmai, are in like manner plural words-literally, 1M
htatJena, and used . with O'l'l'?at .Slthim-the
gods-for God.•
The Pagans used the same plural words, the gods, for·
Gon, although it was to one being alone that in the stricter
sense that title was applicable. We use precisely the
same plural form, " Ht411ena defend m! synechdochically for
God defend "'! as in that beautiful and moral apostrophe
of King Lear-
" phyaic, pomp !
l:xpoee thyeelf to reef what wretcbee feel,
That thou may'lt Make the 111pertlu to them,
And ehow the more jult." 8&.A.KIPII:AaL
that is, show God more just.
This, our adherence to the Pagan phrase, happens to
be consecrated by the text of the New Testament,t in
• Daniel iv. !6. ''Thy kingdom llhell be 1111'8 auto thee after that thou ahl,lt
have known that THJ: HJ:AVJ:l'l'l do rule," i.e. that Gon, i.e. that the xo•T
HIGH, ab011e our laeadl, doth rule. By the laeallem, aye Parkhuat, are llisDi-
fied the trae Aleim, or peno111 of Jebovab. Heb. Lex. p. 741.1. ·
t Matt. xxi. 25.-:-Mark xi. 80, 11. · Lllke xv.",l8. u. 4, 6.-Jobn iv. 2'7.
H {la<11l.11a .,...,. 11\1-· Tbe kiD&dom of lbe beav- Ulll tbe
B ,_'*'n Jhe, kiupom of Mat.
theW aDd
Dig,tizcd by Go"ogle
IT.ATE OJ' TBJ: .n:wa.
wiich the kingdom of the heavens, and the kingdom of,
God, and Gon, and THE HEAVENs-, are perfectly synony-
mous, and used indifferently for the expression $>f precisely
the same sense. Not a plurality of THI\EE, then, nor of
any definite number, was implied by that plural noun
used with the verb singular1 in the Jewish .llkhim, but
merely that vague reference to the planets, from which
the very name of God is derived,• and to which the
primitive idea of all the multifarious modifications of
idolatry or piety, superstition .or religion, may ultimately
be traced. The Jews themselves are as justly chargeable
with polytheism, as the nations whose spiritual advantagee
they affect to despise..
Their historian, Josephus, who lived and wrote about
sixty years after Christ, sought in vain for the testimony
of Egyptian authors to support the high he ·
advanced. Not one has so much as mentioned the prodi-
gies of Moses, or held out the least gijmpse of probability
or coincidence to his romantic tale.
The whole fable of Moses, however, will be found in
the Orphic verses sung in the orgies of Bacchus, as cele-
brated in Egypt, Asia Minor, and Greece, for agee
before such a people as the Jewish nation were known
to be iri existence. (&t lht chapter on Bacchu, in thil
Dn:GEsJs.)
Christianity, however, is not so essentially connected
with the Jewish religion as to stand or fall with it. Paley
and other of the shrewder advocates of the established
faith have intimated their wish that the two systems
were considered as more independent of each other
than they are generally held to be. There might be
evidence left for the Christian religion, though
which is the IIOIU'Ce orme ..Eolic dialect, orI.atin DBtre, (rom"'"' "'""•
cwrere, te run as do the planet&.
The Grecian phil080phera f!BerallY believed that nature il God. No
ntho11 of any order of Cbristian8 whatever, in any of their writings, give u
IDy politive idea on the •ubject, nor indeed any necative one, not derived (rom
-orother of those philoaophers. ·
"The Yee!\s of the New Testament preached only a eort or iDcleterminate,
tor atlllOit, only Pharisaical·deiam. Those who &.ve pror-t and called them-
me. Christians, have been •hardly such charactera as any rational mind eoald
1o have been the foUowera of such a master. Animated only with a
,..,_ zeal apin1t idolatry, to wi'ich Yeeas not allude, t&- icoDOdull
- to have maintained few positive metaphysical d<>&!"ata, .
1 lil·lhey.wanled excl8e8 fo.r plancJerin« from one another Lhe plunder of Papn11111."
I fib thie eenteoce from a treatile, entitled, Variom Dejinitioru of an Im-
' Ptrtcnt Worcl, p. 18, iD a printed bJit unpnhlilbed work of a lee.me!lllld exc:D-
IIItfriead.
4
Dig,tizcd by Google
STATE OF THE JEWS.
the Mosaic dispensation were considered·· a8 altogether
fabulous ; and some have tho'Wht, that the evidence of
Christianity would gain by a dissolution of partnership·;
and a man might be the better Christian, as he certainly
would be better able to defend his Christianity, by
throwing over the whole of the ·Old Testament as inde-
fensible, and contenting himself entirely with the sutlicient
guidance a!ld independent sanctions of the New. "The
law was by Moses, but grace and truth came by
Jesus is an apothegm which Christians receive as
of the highest· authority : and yet no conceivable sense
can be found in those words, short of an indication not only
of distinctness, but of absolute contrariety of character,
bet:ween the two religions. · " Grace and truth came by
Jesus Chrisf," in the antithesis, can imply nothing
.than that neither grace nor truth came by Moses ; to
nothing of those innumerable contemptuous manners of
speaking of the old as 'Uieak ·find beg-
garly elements,"t and that " burthen 'Uihich neither they nor their
fathers 'Uiere able to bear;"+ "all that ever came before me
are thieves and robbers ;"§ in which Christ and the Apos-
tles themselves refer to the religion of Moses. Certainly,
none with whom we have to deal would ever care to
defend Judaism, if once induced to doubt the independent
challenges of Christianity. If this be untenable, that may
very well be left to shift for itself in the wardrobes of
Hollywell-street and the Minories. " The lion preys not
upon carcases !"
It is unquestionable, however, that even if the
story altogether a romance, and all its dramatu per·
tot&al, as connected with what is called in poetical· lan-
gttage, its machinery, merelf imaginary, it is still a romance
of that character,.which wxes up its fantastical personages
with real characters, and fastens events which never hap-
pened, speeches which were never spoken, and doings
which were never done, on persons, times, and places
that had a real existence, and stood in the relations assign-
ed,to them. So that the romance is properly dramatical,
and answers to the of such ingenious and
entertaining fictions, as in our own days are called
romances of the particular eentury to which they are
assigned, in which of course we have the Sir Rowlands,
Sir Olivers, and Sir Mortitners of the author's invention,
•Joluii. 17.
t.Acuxv.lO.
tGalu.ix.
§Joluu.8.
Dig,tizcd by Google
STATE OJ' THE JI!WS.
tl"8D81\cting business and holding dialogues with the Saln-
dins, King Richards, Henrys, and Edwards of real hie-
tory. Nor are there wanting instances of plagiarism in
the department of fiction. A shrewd novelist will often
avail himself of an old story, will change the scene of
;wtion from one country to another, throw it further back,
or bring it lower down, in the order of time ; and make
the heroes of the original conceit, contemporaries and
comrades of either an earlier or a later race of real per-
sonag.es. .
" Josephus, and heathen authors have made mention
of Herod, Archelaus, Pontius Pilate, and other pe1'80na
of note, whose names we meet with in the Gospels and
Acts of the Apoetles, and have delivered nothing mate-
rial concerning their characters, posts, and honours, that
is different from what the ·writers of the New Testament
have said of them."
Such is .the first of Dr.. Lardner's arguments for the
credibility of the gospel history, the sophism of which
will in an instant start into observance, upon putting the
simple questions-What is material? And is it no fatal
that they should have omitted to mention
what they by no possibility could have omitted to mention,
had the personages so spoken of been so concerned in
the gospel history, as they are therein represented to have
.
One of the most striking coincidences of the scriptural
and profane history, is the reference to the death of Herod,
in Acts xii. .21 . .23, as compared with the account
by Josephus, whose words are, " Having now re1gned
three whole years over all Judea, Herod went to the
city Cmsarea. Here he celebrated shows in honour of
·Cesar. On the second day he· came into the theatre
dressed in a robe of silver of most curious workmanship.
' The rays of the sun, then just rising, reflected from so
llplendid a garb, gave him a majestic and awful appear-
ance. In a short time they began in several parts of the
theatre flattering acclamations, which proved pernicious to
. They called him a god, and entreated him to be pro-
•· to them, saying, ' Hitherto we have respected you
a man, but now we acknowledge you to be more than
.' The King neither reproved those persons, nor
ed the impious flattery. Soon after this,• casting
• Kar 1"o" (lv(l..,..a •avr• tm•f"""'•eo,..n•• 11ln on• ·
ayy•1"" n .,.,.,.,.., .,.,..,,, '""'"" twa• -ro• ,,., no-n .,.,.,. ayo#w
••• aax•• oi""'I"·-Antiq. lib. 19. c.. 8. II8CL 2.
Dig,tizcd by Google
!8 STATE 01' THE JEWS.
his eyes upwards, he saw an owl sitting upon a rope over
his head. He perceived it to be a messenger of evil to him,
as it had been before of his prosperity, and was grieved at
heart. Immediately after this he was a.ffe<?ted with ex·
tremely violent pains in his bowels, and turriing to his
friends, in angttish said, 'I, your God, am required to
leave this world ; fate instantly confuting false '
applauses you have bestowed on me; I, who have been
called immortal, am hurried away to death; but God's
appointment must be submitted to.' These pains in his
bo.wels continually tormenting him, he . on the fifth
day, in the fiftyfourth year of his age, and of his reign the
seventh." ·
There is a curious ambiguity in the Greek word for
messenger (angelos), of .which Eusebius availing himself,
says nothing about the owl, but gives as the text of
Josephus, that he beheld an angel hanging 0t1er head upon
a rope, and this he knew immediately to be .an omen of wil.•
Lardner justly reproves this fault in Eusebius, but has
no reproof for the author of the Acts of the Apostles, who
was privileged to improve the story still farther by 'adding
that the angel of the Lord smote him, beeame he gave not God
the clary, (i. e. the spangles and gaudery of his silver
dress.) This Herod was a deputy king holding his power
under the appointment of Caius Caligula.
The PHARISEEs were a sect of and sano-
timoriious hypocrites, ready to play mto and keep up
any.religious farce that might serve to invest them with
an imaginary sanctity of character; and increase their
influence. over the minds of the .majority, whose good
nature and ignorance in all ages and countries, is but ever
too ready to subscribe the claims thus made upon it.
They were the Quakers of their day, a set of
cial, speculating thieves, who expressed'their religion in the
eccentricity of their garb ; .and, under professions of ex-
traordinary punctiliousness and humanity, were the most
oppressive,. and inexorable of the human
race. Of this sort was the apostolic chief of sinners, and
this character he discovers through all accounts of his
life ahd writings, that have entailed the curse of his ex-·
ample on mankind.
The SADDUCEES were a set of who, as they
were too . sensible to be imposed ·on themselves, were
* 61 Tlj' IIIVT8 llltptfoAij' trltr 171:& ..
TBTo> 1111./tv' •••'Ia• lltJllcr ....., a&nor.-E-b. Ec. HiL lib. 2. c. 9. B.
Digitized byG ogle.
I
STATE OF THE JEWI. 99
the less disposed to cajole others. They were the most
respectable part of the Jewish community, and by the
influence of their more rational tenets and more moral
example, served to infuse that leaven of reason and
virtue, without which, the frame of society could hardly be
held together.
It is enough to know, in aitdition to the more than
enough that every body may know, of the Mosaic insti-
tutions, that the pretensions of the Jews, as a nation, to
never exceeded that of the dark.and hidden
science which they called the Cabbala, which, like their
hidden theology; was nothing more than the Oriental
philosophy, plagiarized and modelled to their own con-
ceit, and a crude jumble of the various melancholy
notions, which had forced themselves up&n their minds
in the course. of their ramblings into the adjacent coun-
tl'ies of Egypt and Phrenicia, and the little that ignorance
itself could not help learning, in the course of their traffic
with the Greeks, Persians, and Arabians.
·Their sacred scriptures of the Old Testament contain
no refetence to the Platonic doctrine of a future state.•
Though the metaphysical notion of the immortality of
the soul, had been inculcated. and embraced in India, in
.Assyria, in Eg-Ypt, and in Gaul, and was believed with
so influential and practicaJ a faith, that its votaries would
lend their money to be 'returned them again in the other
world,t (a proof of sincerity less equivocal than martyl'-
dom itself.) Yet this doctrine appears to have been
wholly unknown to the JeWish legislator, and is but
darkly insinuated in any part of the prophetical writ-
ings.t Hence the Sadducees, who, according td-IJIO$e-
phus, respected only the authority of the Pentateuch (or
five books of Moses), had no belief in a resUrrection, angele
or spirits, or any such chimerical hypostases. Nor does
the Christ of the New Testament seem to have had the
least idea of the possible existence of the soul, in a state
• The ooly reward fer obedieoee to the law of God, W.., t1&4t attacW
to the fifth, which ia called by the Apoetle, the/"''' commandment withproflliu
-" that thy days may be looc in the land." ·
t Vetas ille moa Gallorum oocurrit, Valeriaa Maxima8, I. 2. c. 6. p. 10.)
qaos memoria proditam eat, pecuaiee matau dare eolitos qu• bia, apad inferw
l'lldderelltar.
*Itis better for • to e11ter bah into life, two feet to be cut
halo hell. It is better for thee to euter into the kiocclom of God with oue eye.
than having two eys, to be cut into hell fire.-Mark ix. 45. 47. Here wu JIO illea
et heaven. or tbe ll&ate of the bla.ed, llbove a bolpital of iacaaW.. ·
,.
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
80 STATE OV PHILOSOPHY.
of separation from the body. All his attempts to alann
the cowardice and weakness of his hearers, are founded
on the assumption, that the body must accompany the ·soul
in its anabasis to heaven, or its,descent to hell, and indeed
that there waR no virtual distinction between them. It
must, however, be admitted to be a good and valid apology
for the omission-that none of his -followers have been
able to supply the deficiency.
CHAPTER V.
STATE OF PHILOSOPHY.
THERE is nothing that can be known of past ages, known
with more unquestionable certainty, than that in, about,
and immediately afteJ; the epocha of time ascribed to the
dawning of divine light, the human mind seems generally
to have suffered an eclipse. The arts and sciencee, intel-·
ligence and virtue; were smitten with an unaccountable
palsy. The mind of man lost all its energies, and sunk
under a generally prevailing imbecility. We look in vain
among the successors of Cicero, Livy, Tacitus, Horace,·
and Virgil, the statesmen, orators, and poets of the
golden age of literatUre, for a continuation of series of
such ornaments of human nature. 4 blight had smitten
the growth of men's understandings ; not only no more
such clever men rose up, but with very few exceptions,
no RlQre such men as could have appreciated the talents
of their predecessors, or possessing so much as the rela-
_
tive- degree of capacity, necessary to be sensible of the
superiority that had preceded them. After reasonings so
just, and eloquence so powerful, that even so late after
the revival of literature as the present day, mankind
have not yet learned to reason more justly, or to declaim
more powerfully ; a race of barbarous idiots possessed
themselves of the seat of science and the muses ; and all
distinction and renown was sought and obtained by absu:r-
dities disgraceful to reason, and mortifications revolting ·
to nature. "The groves of the academy, the gardena of
Epicurus, and even the porticoes of the Stoics, were
deserted as so many different schools of scepticism or
and mu.y among Romans were desiroWJ
Dig,tizcd by Google
STATE OJ' PHILOSOPH!'. Sl
the writings of should be condemned and suppreee-
ed by the aqthority of the Senate.,.
The reasoning of which all men see the absurdity,
when applied by the victorious Caliph to justify the de-
struction of the library of Alexandria,t appeared unan-
swerable when adduced on the side of the true faith.
Omar issued hie commands for the destruction of that '
library; to his general, Arrirus, in these words :
"As to tlie books of which you have made mention, ifthere
be contained in them what accords.with the book of God
(meaning,he Koran of Mahomet), there is without them,
in the book of God, all that is sufficient. But if there be
any thing in them repugnant to that book, we in no respect
want them. Order them, therefore, to be all destroyed."
-Ha1'1'ilt;
Precisely similar in spirit, and almost in form, are the
respective decrees· of the Emperors Constantine and
Theodosius,·which generally ran in the wotds, " that all
writings adverse to the claims of the Christian religion,
iD the possession of whqmsoever they should be found,
lbould be .committed to the fire," as the pious Emperors
would not that those things which they took upon them-
lelves to assume, tended to provoke God to wrath, should
be allowed to offend the minds of the pious.t Mr. Gib-
bon, in his usual strain of caustic sarcasm, mentions the
elaborate treatises which the philosophers, more espe-
cially the prevailing sect of the new Platonicians, who
mdeavoured to· extract allegorical wisdom from. _
the
6ctions of the Greek poets, composed ; and the many ela-
IJorate treatises against the faith of the Gospel, which
llave since been corninihed to the fiames, by the prudence
fli orthodox emperors. The large treatise .of Porphyry
llpinst the Christians, consisted of thirty books, and was
IOIIlposed in Sicily about the year 270. It .was against
6a of this great man especially, who had
'MI(Uired tlie honourable addition to his name, of THE
tat-uous, that the exterminatory decree of Theodosius
._ more immediately c;lirected. There is little doubt,
filet had the disooveries his writings would have made,
..._ permitted to come to general knowledge, all the pre-
tllllded external evidenc.e of Christianity must have been
•Gibbcm, eh. 16.
dellraction or tl!is celebrated library gave aafety to the evidences or the
nl' · n.
t Bee &be1::.quoted in my Syntapa, p. 85. ·
•
Dig,tizcd by Coogle
BTA.TE OF PHILOSOPHY.
given up as wholly untenable. But wrule what the virtu-
ous Porphyry had really written, was to the
flames, a worse outrage was committed agamst h1s repu-
tation, by Christians, who, aware of the great influence of
his name and authority, ascribed the vile trash they
had composed themselves to him, for the purpose of making
him seem to have made the admissions which it was for
1 the-interest of Christianity that he should have or
to have attacked it so feebly, as might serve to'
advantage of thei,r defences. The celebrated treatise on
the Philosophy of Oracles, which even the . Dod-
dridge, and the learned Macknight, ascribed to this
great man, and hvailed themselves of, for that fr.audulent
purpose, has, by the greater fidelity and honesty of Lard.-
ner, been traced home to the hands
of Christian piety.• . ·
Before the Christiitn religion had made any perceptible
advance among mankind, two grand influential princi-
ples characterized all the moving intelligence that then ex-·
isted inthe world ; and to these two principles, Christianity
owed its ·triumph over all the wisdom and honesty that
feebly opposed its progress. These principles were,-the
SUPPOSED NECESSITY OF DECEIVING THE VULGAR, and
THE IMAGINED DUTY OF CULTIVATING AND PERPETU•
ATING IGNORANCE. .Of the former of these principles,
the most distinguished advocates were the whole train
of.deceptive legislators ; Moses in Palestine, Mneues (if
he be not the same) in Minos in Crete, Lycurgus
in Lacedmmon, Numa m Rome, Confucius in China,
Triptolemus, who pretended the inspirations of Ceres,
Zaleucps of Minerva, Solon of'Epimenides, Zamolxis of
Vesta, Pytltagoras, and Plato.t Euripides maintained that
in the early state of society, some wise· men insisted on
the necessity of darkening with falsehood, and of
persuading men that there is an immortal deity, who hears
and and understands our actions, whatever we may
think of that matter ourselves.:t: Strabo shows at great
length the general use and effects of theological
fables. ." It is not possible for a philosopher to conduct b)t
reasoning ·a of and the low
and thus to mv1te them to p1ety, hohness, and f81th ;
• II•q• See thia ezpoee in my Syntagma, p. 118.
t It will be seen that I have largely availed myself of my friend'• printed H&
llllpllblisbed work on Deisidemony. . .·
t Qyted in the peeudo-Plularchean treatile, de placilil pbil01. B. I, Cia. 7.
Dig•tizcd
STATE OF PHILOSOPHY.
but the philosopher must also make use of superstition,
and not omit the invention of fables, and the performance
of wonders. For the lightning, and the regis, and the
trident, and the thyrsolonchal arms of the gods, are but
fables; and so is all ancient theology. But the founders
of states adopted them as bugbears to frighten the weak-
minded."•
Yarro says plainly, "that there are many truths which
it is useless for the vulgar to know, and many falsities
which it is fit that the people should not know are falsi-
. .
Paul of Tarsus, whose folirteen epistles make up the
reater part of the bulk of the New Testament, repeatedly-
mculcates and avows the principle of deceiving the
common people, talks of his having been upbraided by
his own converts.with being crafty and catching them
with guile,+ and of his known and wilful lies, abounding to
the glory of God.§ For further avowals of this prin-
ciple of deceit, the reader may consult the chapter of
Admissions. · · -
Accessory to the avowed and consecrated principle of
lkctil, was that of IGNORANCE. St. Paul, in the most
explicit language, had taught and maintained the absolute
of extreD).e ignorance, in order to attain celestial
wisdom, and in the power of the Almighty as des-
troying the w1sdom of the wise, and bringing to nothing,
the understanding ofthe prudent ; and purpof!ely choosing
the foolish things, and the weak things, and the base
tbings,l! as objec.ts of his adoption, and vessels of his
grace. · And St. Peter, or whoever was the author of the
epistles ascribed to him, inculcates the necessity of the
most absolute prostration of understanding, and of a state
of .mind, but' little removed from slobbering idiotcy, as
necessary to the acquisition of divine knowledge ; that
even " as new born babes, they should desire the sincere
milk of the word, that they might grow thereby.'"'f
Upon the sense of which doctrine, the pious and
Cll'thodox Tertullian glories in the egregious ridiculous-
• Dr. Isaac Vossins, when asked what bad become of a certain man of
lette111, answered bluntly, "he ha, turmd country panon, and il deceioing
IM ttulgar."-See Desmaiseaux's Life of St. Evremond.
t August. de Cio. Dei. B. 4. .
t 2 Corinth. xii. 16. § Romans iii. 7. Ill Corinth. i. 27.
,. 1 Peter ii. 2. 1 Thess. ii. 7, " Even as a oul"86 cherisheth her chil-
llren." Compare ali!O 2 Corinth. xi. 28, where Paul sap, " I speak as a fool,"
which he need not have said. • . ·
Dig,tizcd by Coogle
84 STATE OF PHILOSOPHY.
ness of the Christian religion, and the effects
which the sincere belief of it had produced .on his own
understanding: his main argument for it, "I reve-
rence it, because it is contemptible ;' I adore it, because it
is absurd; I believe it, because it is impossible."•
Nothing was considered more obnoxious to the cause
of the gospel, than the goo,d senile contained in the
writings of its opponents. The inveteracy against learn-
ing, of Gregory the.Great, to whom this country owes its
conversion to the gospel, was so excessive, that he
not only was angry with an Archbishop of for
suffering grammar to be taught in his diocese, but studied
to write bad Latin himself, and boasted that he scorned
to conform to the rules of grammar, whereby he might
seem to resemble a heathen.t The spirit of super-
stition quite suppressed all the. efforts of learning and
philosophy. ' ·
Christianity was first sent to the shores of England by
the missionary zeal of Pope'Gregory the First, not earlier
than the sixth or the beginning of the seventh century.
Our King Alfred, who is said to have founded the Uni-
versity of Oxford, in the ninth century, lamented that
there was at that time not a priest in .his dominions
who understood Latin,:j: and even for some centuries
after, we find that our Christian bishops and prelates,
the. "teachers, spiritual pastors, and masters," of the
whole Christian community, were .Marksmen, i. e. they sup-
plied by the sign of the cross, their inapility··to write
their own names.§
Though philology, eloquence, poetry, and history, were
sedulously cultivated among those of the Greeks and
Latins, who in the fourth century still held out their
resistance against the Christian religion: its just and
honourable historian, Mosheim, admonishes his readers
by no means to conclude that any acquaintance with the
sciences had become universal in the church of Christ.ll
"It is certain, (he adds) that the greatest part both of the
bishops and presbyters, were men entirely destitute of
learning and education. Besides, that savage and illiterate
party, :who looked upon all sorts of particularly
• De carne Christi Semleri, Edit. Halm 1779, vol. 8, p. 862.
Qootcd in Syntagma, p•ge t06.
t Dr. MandeviiJe•s Free Thoughts, page 11)2.
t See History of England, almost any one.
§ Evans's Sketches.
HEcclesiaatieal History, Cent. 4, part 2,1.lbap. 1, sec. IS, p. 848.
Dig,tizcc
01' PHILOSOPHY.
that of a philosophical kind, as pernicious, and even de-
structive of true piety and :celigi.on, increased both in
number and authority. The ascetics, monks,.and hermits,
augmented the strength of this barbarous faction, and not
only the women, but also all who took solemn looks, sordid
gannents, and a love of solitude, for real piety, (and in
this number we comprehend the generality of mankind)
were vehemently prepossessed in their favour."
Happily the security and permanency given to the once
won triumphs of learning over her barbarous foes, by the
invention of the art of printing,* the now extensive
spread of rational scepticisma arid the never ag&in to be
surrendered. achievements _
of superior intelligence, have
forced upon the advocates of igOOr-ance, the necessity of
expressing their still too manifest sli11picions and hostility
against the cause of general learning, in more guarded and
qualified terms. But what they still would have, the
sameness of their principle, the identity of their purpose,
and the sincerity of their eonviction that the cultivation
ofthe mind, and the continuance of the Christian religion,
are incompatible, is indicated in the institution of an
otherwise supetfluous university in the city of London,
for the avowed purpose of counteracting the well foreseen
effects of suffering learning to get her pass into the world
untrammelled with the fetters of superstition. The ad-
vertisement of subscriptions to the intended King's Col-
lege, in the Timts newspaper, even so late {:1-S the 16th of
this present \{lonth of August, in which I write from this
prison, in· the cause advocacy of lntellectual free-
dom, avows ·the principle in these words :-" We, the
undel'li!igped, fully concurring the . FUNDAMENTAL
PRINCIPLES on which it is proposed to be established,
namely, that every principle of general education for the
youth of a Christian community, ought to eomprise in-
struction in the Christian religion, as an indispensable part ;
without which, the acquisition of other branches of know-:
will be conducive neither to the happiness, nor to'
the welfare of the state." In other words, and most
• Ia the year 1444, Cuton publisbed the first book ever printed in En!fand.
&1474, the then Bishop of London, in a convocation o(bis clergy, eaid, " J.fWI
it ut dutroy tAU dangero.m it will one day destroy m."
'1\e l'llllder abould compare Pope Leo the Tenth's avowal, th11t "it was well
iiNIM hOtD profitable this fable of Chrilt hat been to ua :" with Mr. Beard'•
it, in his third letter to the Rev. Robert Taylor, page 74, and Areb-
-.eoii Paley's declaration, that " he could not afford to a comcimce.:•-
81.Life of the Author attached to hill work on the EvidencesofCbriatianity, p. 11.
L.ioa U010. edit. 1816.
Dig,tizcd by Google
OF PBILOSOPHf.
unequivooo11y in the sense intended, the utmost-extent ·or
learning which the Ut;liVel'sity propounds, will .never reach
to the rendering any of.its members competentto conflict
with the learning of the enemies of the Christian faith ;
to produce either orators who dare attempt to vie on
equal grounds with their orators ; readers, who dare trust
• their oonscious inferiority of understanding to or
writers that shall have ability or disposition to answer
their writings. The old barbarous. policy of Goth llnd
Vandal ignorance, to suppress and ,commit to the flames
the writings of Infidels, to decry their virtues, and to
imprison their persons ; to shelter conscious weakness
under airs of affecte«l contempt ; to crush the man when
they can no longer with his argument, to destroy
the reasoner, when they dare not his reasoning,
is still the dernier resource of a system, that cannot be
defended by other means, but must needs be left .in the
dust from whence it sprang, whenever the mind of man
shall be allowed to get a fair start, without being clogged
with it. ·
" In consequence of the conquests of the Romans, there
arose imperceptibly, but entirely by the operation of
natural and most obvious. causes, a new kind of religion,
formed by the mixture of the ancient rites of the con-
quered nations with those of the Rom?-ns. Those nations,
who before their eubjection, had their own gods, and their
own particular religions institutions, were persuaded by
degreu, to admit into their worship, a great.number of the
sacred rites and customs of their conquerors."* And from
this conjunction, helped on or retarded from time to time,
by those exacerbations and which ever attend
the fever of religion, as it afflicts the sincerely religious,
and the policy of those wicked tacticians, who have always
. known how to raise or lower.the temperament to
their purpose, arose that heterogeneous compound of all
that was .and all that was bad in all religions, which,
after havmg existed under various names and modifica-
' tions, and gained by gradual usurpations a considerable
, ascendancy over any or all the -idolatrous forms from
which it had been collected, began to be. called Chris-
tianity. "The wiser part of mankind, however, (says
.Mosheim) about the time of Christ's birth, looked upon
the whole system of religion, as a just object of contempt
and ridicule."t •
• Millheim, Ceot, 1. t Molbeim, c-.L Cia. 1.
Dig•tizcd by Google
STATE PBlLOIOPBY.
"About the time of Christ's appearance upon earth,•
there were two kinds or philosophy which prevailed among
the civilized nations. One was the philosophy of the ·
Greekl3, adopted also by the Romans; and the other, that
of the Orientals, which had a great number ·of votaries
·ln Pel'8ia, Syria, Chaldea, Egypt, and even among the
Jews." ·
The Greek and Roman mode of thought and reasoning,
was designated by the simple title of PHILOBOPRr.t
That of the eastern nations, as opposed to it, wa.a called
. GNOIITICI8M.t
The PhiloiOphy, signified only the love and pursuit of
wisdom. ·
The GMaia, signified the perfection and full attainment
ofwisdom itself.
The followel'8 of·both these systems, as we might natu-
rally suppose, split and subdivided into innumerable secte
and parties. It mUEJt be obeerved, that while
the Philo6opht,.,, or those of the Grecian and Roman
school, ·were infinitely divided, and held no common prin-
ciple of unlon among themselves, some of them being
opposed to. all religion whatever ; the Gtaolttu, or adhe-
rents of the oriental system, deduced all. their various
tenets from one fundamental principle, that of their com-
mon deism, .and unive1'88lly professed theml§elves to be the
restorel'8 of the of God, which was lost in the
world. St. Paul mentions and condemns both these modes
of thought and reasoning ; that of the Greeks, in hill
Epistle to the Colossians, and that of the Orientals, in W..
first to Timothy.§. .
The GNons, or Gnosticism, comprehends the doctrine
of the Magi,!! the philosophy of the Penians, Chaldeans,
and Arabians, and the wisdom of the Indians and
tians. It is distinctly to be traced in the text and doctnnes
of the New Testament. It was from the bo8om of this ·
pretf"tlded tDiMknn, that the chiefs of those sects,
which, in the three first centuries, perplexed the Christian
church, originally issued. The name itself signified, that
its professol'8 taught the wcy to tht 1rt1e ktaoulltclge of tAt
• Oar aatbor- uy time about or Dear the -
f H -....,.. *H r,-lf.
§ Beware, Jell any man BpOil you through philoeophy and 'l'llia c*eit.-Cel-.
i. I. MoidiaS profaue ud Yaia babbliap, aDII oppllieio• oC ..._, IIWJ•
......_.., Tim. vi. llO. .
l The Maci, or wile meo or the east, (MaUbew ii. 1,) i e. the Brabmillt, wile
llitp up tJie allepricahtory ofCH•IeHlU.-. ·
5
Dig,tizcd by Google
Stl AD:MIIIIIONI OF CBRUTUN
Deity. Their most distinguished sect inculcated the
notion of a triumvirate of.beings, in wbich the Suprew •
Deity was distinguished both from the materi4l eml prin-
ciple; and from the creator of this tmblunary world.
The PHILOSOPHY, COJilprehended the Epicureans, the
' most virtuous and rational of mlln, who maintained that
wisely consulted plellSUre, was the ultimate end of man ;
the 'Jlcademics, who placed the height of wisdom in doubt
and scepticism ; the Sldics, who maintained. a fortitude
indifferent to all events ; the .llristotelians, who, after their
master, ArM!totle, held the most subtle disputations con-
cerning God, religion, and the social duties, maintaining
that the nature of God resembles the principle .that gives
motion to a machine, that it is happy in the contemplation
of itself, and entirely regardleBB of human affairs ; the
Plalonist8, from their master, PlatQ, who .taught the .im-
qlOrtality of the soul, the doctrine of the trinity, of the
manifestation of a .divine man, who .should be crucified,
and the etenal rewuds and punishments of a future life ;
and from all these resulting, the Eclectics, who, as their
name · signifiee, eluted and chose whl;lt they held to be
wise and rational; out ofthe tenets of aU sects, and rejeQted
whatever was considered futile and pernicious. The
Eclectics held Plato in .the highest reverence, Their
college or chief establishment was at Alu:andria in Egypt.
Their founder was supposed to have been one Potamon.
The most indubitable testimonies prove, thJI,t this Philo-
/sephy was·in a flourishing state, at. the period assigned to
the birth of Christ. The Eclectics are the same whom we
find described as the Therapeuts or Essenes of Philo, and
whose sacred writings are, by Eusebius, shown to be the
same as our gospels. but the supposed.expediency
of deceiving the vulgar, and of .perpetuating ignorance,
hinders the historian to whom I .am, for the .substance of
this chapter, so much indebted, fro:n acknowledging the
fact, that in every rational sense that can be attached to
the word, they were the authors and real founders. of
Christianity. .
---
CHAPTER VI.
ADMISSIONS OF CHRISTIAN WRITERS.
Ix studying the writings of the early advocates of ChriS-
tianity, fathers of the Christian church; wltere We
should naturally look for the language that would indicate
ADMISSIONS OF CHRISTU.N lfllJT&as. 39
the real occurrence of the facts of the gospel, if real
·occurrences they had ever been ; not only do we find no
such sort of language, but every where, find ·we, any 1ort
of sophistical ambages, ramblings from and
evasions of the very business before them, M if of purpose
to balk our research, and insnlt our scepticiem.. If we
travel to the very sepulchre of Christ, we have only tO
discover that he was never there : history seeks evidence
of his existence as a man, but finds no more trace of it,
' than of the .shadow that flitted across the wall. The star
of Bethlehem shone not upon her path, and the order o(
the universe was suspended without her observance. She
asks with the Magi of the east, "where is he that is born
King of the Jews," and _
like them, finds no solution of her
inquiry, but the guidance that guides as well to one place
as another ; descriptions that apply to Esculapius, as wen
as to Jesus ; prophecies, without evidence that they were
ever prophesied ; miracles, which those who are said to
have seen, are said also to have denied that they saw ;
narratives without. authorities, facts without dates, and
records without names. .
Where we should natul."al.ly ·look for the evidence ·of
receq,tness, and a mode of. expression suitable to the
character of witnesses, 'or of those who had conversed
with we not only find no such modes of expte&-
aion ; but both the recorded and actions of the
5es,· are found to be entirely mcongruous, and out of
ing with the supposition of such a character. We
&o the discourses ofthe very first preachers and martyr-s
of this re!igion, outraging all chronology, by claiming the
lloDoors of an even then remote antiquity, for the doctrines
they tatlght. . J . •
't. We find St. Stephen,"' the very first martyr of Chrie-
tllddty, in the very city where its stupendous events are
to have happened, and, as our Bible chronologies
lflfOrm us, within the very year in which they happened ;
1114 on 'the very occasion on which above all others that
1
could be imagined, he must, and would .have borne testi-
mony to them, as .constituting the ·evidences of his faith,
the jU8tification of his conduct, and the grounds of hie.
DIUtyrdom ; nevertheless, bearing no such testimony ;
•.Jnot so much as glancing ':'-t those events, but found-
.........1'1', a name or.the aame order u Nicodemus, Philip, Andrew, Alex-
..... lie.,. ea&irely of Grecian ori&in, ucribed to Jews, who never 1wl such
- . 1101' any like them. · • ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
- 40 .A.DIIIISSIONS OF ClflliSTIAI'f WBI·TEBS.
ing his whole argument on the ancient legends of the Jew-
ish superstition_
. What afalling offisthere !
.2. We find St. . Paul, the very fil'St 4postle of ·the
Gentiles, expressly avowing that " he was made aminister
of gospel, which had alreadY: been to every
creature under heaven ;" (Col. 1. 2S,) preaching a god
manifest in the flesh, who had been " believed on in the
W9rld," (I Tim. iii.I6,) before the commencerAent of hV
ministry ; .and who 'therefore could have been no such
person as the man of Nazareth, who had certainly not
been at that time-
, nbr generally believed on in
the world, till ages after that time.
s-. We find him, .moreover, out of all character and con-
sistency -of circumstance, assuming-the most intolerant
airs of arrogance, and snubbing Peter a
.t Antioch, as if he
were nobody, or had absolutely been preaching a false
· doctrine, of which Paul were the more proper judge, and
the higher authority. A circumstance absolutely demon-
strative that the Peter of the Aets'was no such .person as
the Peter of the Gospels, who would certai.nly not have
· suffered himself to be called over the coals, by one who
was but a new setter up in the busbtess, but would in all
probability have cut ea:r off, rapt out a good oath or
two, or knock him down with his keys, for such audlcious
presumption. - ' -
4. It is most essentially remarkable, that as these_
Aots
of the Apostles bear internal evidence ofbeing a much
later production than· the epistles and gospels, and are
evidently mixed up with the journals of r,eal adventures of
8()me travelling tn1ssionaries ; they are not mentioned with
and gospels which had. the ancient
wr1tings of the Therapeutre. Chrysostom, B1shop of Con-
stantinople, (A. D. S9S,) informs usl that at that time, "this
book was unknown to many, and by others it was 'des-
pised."
5. MILL, one of the very highest authorities in biblical
literature, tells us, " that the gospels were soon spread
abroad, and came into all men's hands ; but the case was
somewhat different with the other books of the New Tes-
tament, particularly the Acts - of the Apostles, which
were net thought to be so imporq,.nt, and had few -tran&-
cribers." ·
6. And acknowledges, that the book 'of
the Acts, had not at the beginning in the churches,
the same authority with the gospels and the epistles. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
ADIIIHIOftl Or CMaJITIAft W&ITI:U. 41
'7. LARDNER, (vol• .2, p. 605,) would rather give St.
Cbrysostom the lie, than surrender to the pregnant con-
sequence of so fatal an admission. The gospels were
eoon received, for they were ready before the world wae
awake. The ACTa were a second attempt. Where we
should look for marks of distinction, as definite as those
which must necessarily and eternally exist between truth
and falsehood, between divine wisdom and· human weak-
neee, between what man kn!"W by the suggestion of his
own una88isted shrewdnel'!s, and what he only could have
known by the further of divine revelation; not
only find we no such lines or characters of distinction, but
alas ! in the stead and place tht.>reof, we find the most entire
and perfect amalgamation, an entire surrender of all chal-
lenge to distinction, a complete capitulation, going over, and
conjunction, of Jesus and Jupiter.
Christianity and Paganism are frankly avowed to have
been never more distinct from each other, than six from
half-a-dozen, never to have been at variance or divided1
but by the mere accidental substitution of one set oa
names for the other, and the very trifling and immaterial
.that the new nomenclature had occa.-
.Wned. · .
" Some of the ancientest writers·of the church have not
scr:upled expressly to call the Athenian SocRATEs,
some others of the best· of the heathen moralists, by the
naine of CuauTu.Ne, and to affinn, that as the law waa
u it a schoolmaater,.to bring the Jews unto·Christ,
8o true moral philosophy was to the ·Gentiles ·a prepa.-
ative to reoeive the gospel."-Vlarke'• &idencu ofNatwwal
.U &.ealed Religion, p. .284. ·
8.• "And those who lived aoeording to the Logos, (saya
Clemens Alexandrinus) were really Christiaos, though
they have been thought to be .Atheists ; as Socrates and
Heraclitus were among the Greeks, and such as resembled
tllem."
· 9.t For God, says Origen, revealedthese things to them,
and whatever things have been well spoken.
lO.j And if there had been any one to have collected .
Dig,tizcd by Google
4S 01' CB&IITUN WtltTERI.
·th• truth ·that was scattered and diffused, says Lactan;
tius; among sects and individuals, in:to one, and to have
reduced it into a system, there would, indeed, have been
no difference between him and us.
11.• And if Cicero's works, says Arnobius, had been
read as they ought to have been by the heathens, there
would have been no need of Christian writers.·
12.f "That, in our times is the CHRISTIAN RELIGioN,
(says St. Augustin,) which to know and follow is the IllOl!t
sure and certain health, called according to that name,
but not according to the thing itself, of which it is the
name; for the thing itself, which is now called the
'Cn·Jli&TIAN RELIGION, really was known to ·the ancients;
nor was wanting at any time from the beginning of the
human race, until the time when Christ came in the flesh,
from whence the true religion, which had previously
existed,'began to be called ·Christian ; and .this in our «hlys
i8 the Christian religion, not as having been wanting in
fcmner times, but as having in later times received this
name."
"What then? and do the philosophers recommend
nothing like the of the gospel ?" askB Lactantius.
y indeed, they do very many, and often approach to
truth ; only their precepts have no weight, as being merely
human and devoid of that greater and divine authority;
and nobodybelieves1 because the hearer thinks himself 88
much a man, as he JS who.prescribes them.
. 14. Monsieur Daillee, in his most excellent treatise,
ealled, I:..a &ligion Catlwlique Romaine, instit'"e par Nutnli
Pompile, demonstrates, that " the Papists took their idol-
atrous worship of images, as well as all other ceremonies '
from the old heathen religion,," and
15. Ludovicus Vivus, a lewned Catholic, confe88ell,
; • So .quoted and tranalated by T'mdal, in his " C)uistianity u Old u U:.
Creation," p. 897. · ·
t Ea est nostrle temporibu Cbri8tiana relisio, quam cop011C6re ac 'llelfli
-.uielrima et ce.U.ima twt : -uodum hoe aomen dichUD eat aoa
-oodotn lpoiam rem eujos hoe nomen est : nam res ipsa qlllll none Chriatia!la
religio nooeupator erat et apod antiquos, nee defuit ab initio humui,
IJUOO!IQDe ipse Cbristu veoiret in came, oade vera religio que Jllm erat cepit
appellari Christiana. HB!C est noetris temborihu Cbristiaoa religio, non qaia
fuit, ;ied 9uia poeterierib'u hoe nomen aceepit.--Oplq
vol. 1, p. 12. Buil ed1t. 1629. - - •
·..f Quid ergo, nihil ne illi (philosophi) •imile I lmmo permuha et ad
nritatem frequenter aeeedont. Sed nihil ponderis habent ila pneeepta, quia ....t
llluuaoa, et aliCtoritate majori id eat divioa, ilia eaient. Nemo Jiitorcredit ; filii!.
111111 • homiaem Jlllt.&t - qui aadi&,quam est ille qui pnaeipit.-Lacwat lib. 1, .l
Cilat C.larb, p. 801 :
o;9; ized byGoogle
.4DMIIUONI 01' CBRIA'IAl'f WRITllRI. 43
that " there could be found no other difterenoe betweea ·
Paganish and Popish worship before images, but only
this, that names and titles are changed."-Quoted t.s
.BiotiAt'• Philo8tratw, p. 118, 114. .
16.4 Epiphanius freely admits, of all the heretical forme
of Christianity, that is, of all that differed from his own,
that they were derived from the heathen mythology.
17. The Manichees, the most distinguished of all who
dissented from the established church, and unquestionably
tha most intelligent and learned· of all who ever profe88ed
and called themselves Christians, boasted of being in
poeeession. of a work called the Theosophy, or the
Wisdom of God_; (and such a work we actually find quoted
by St. Paul, 1 2,) in which the ·purport was to
show,t that Judaism; Paganism, ·and Manicheeism, i.e.
aa they understood it, Christianity, were one and the same
religion, and ·
18. Even our own orthodox Bishop Burnet, in hie
treatise Jh Statu .Mortuon..m, purpo8ely written in Latin,
that it might serve for the instruction of the clergy only,
and not conie to the knowledge of the laity, beca1186, as
he says, " too much light is hurtful for weak eyes ;" not
only justifies, but recommends the practice of the meet
COil8UIIliilate hypocrisy, and that too, on the most awful of
all subjects ; and would have his clergy seriously preach
and maintain the reality and eternity of hell torments,
even though they should believe nothing of the sort them:-
eelves.t · . ·
What is this, but an edition, by a Christian bishop., of
the very sentiment which Cicero reproves in Pagan phi-
loeophers :-" Quid ? ii qui dixerunt totam de Diis im-
mortalibus opinionem fictam esse ab hominibus sapientibus,
Reipublicre causa, ut quos Ratio non posset, eos ad officium
Religio duceret, nonne omnem religionem funditus sus-
tulerunt."-De Nat. Deor. lib. I, ch. 4!, p. 405.-Can
there be any doubt; that Bishop Burnet, with all his cant
about converting the Earl of Rochester, was himself an'
Athei t?
19. Dr. Mosheim, among his many and invaluable
• Ex rae tll'll'l."""' naaa t Ill C1U1/a;llall& 1'11" n.a.....,;
26, n. 16, p. 98, D. .
t E• '11T«f!UTa& To• tBclarii!'OY •u• TOP tll'!••ai'OY •a• TO• p1Jff&XII&C1/'..
".,,.., ""'To avro Jori•"·-Fabricins, tom. 1, p. 164.
t i me tamen audire velis, mallem te penas baa dieere indeiJaituqum ia&Rillll.
--8ed nniet dies, com non minus absurda, babebilllr el odioa. bee opiDio qua
-lwc•ntiatio bodie.-De Statu Mort. p. 104. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
44 ..IO!fl OP CR&ISTIAI!f .lUTI:&I.
writings, publi$hed a dii!Sertation, showing the re88181
and causes of supposititious in the first' and
11e00nd centllry. ·And all own, says Lardner, that Chris·
tians of all sorts were guilty of this fraud ; indeed, we,may
eay, it was one great fault of the times.• . -
"And in the last place, (says the great Casaubon,)
it mightily affects me, to see how many there were in the
earliut times of the church, who considered it as a capital
exploit, tf:l lend to heavenly truth the .help of their. own
inventions, in order tliat the new doctrine might be IDDre
·readily allowed by the wise among the Gentiles. These
officious lies, they were wont to say, were devised for a
good end. From which source, beyond question, spl'Wlg
nearly innumer.able books, that and the. following
age saw by thOle who were'far from being bad
men,t (for we are not speaking of the books of heretics,)
under the name of'.the Lord Jesus Christ, and of the
apostles, and other saints."
The reader has only to satisfy himself with his own
eolution of the questi!;m emergent from such an admission.
If th9se who palmed what theyo knew to be a lie, upon the
world, under the npme and sanction of a ·God of truth, are
to be considered as still worthy of our and f•
from hftng ball men: who are the bad men ? Illud me
que vehementer movet. . '
. 21. " is scarce any church in Christendom at this
day, (says one of the church's most oma·
ments) which doth not obtrude, not only plam falsehoods, 1
but.such falsehoods will appear to any free spirit, pure ·
contradictions and·impossibilities; and that with the same
gravity, authority, and importunity, as they do holy ;
of God."......Dr. Henry Moore.
Here again emerge the anxious queries.-Why should
not a man have a free sph;t? and what can be due :
to the holy oracles of God, :standing on no better eVidence :
• Lardoer, vol. 4, p. 62_4. ·
t " Poetremo illud quoque me vehement« movet; quod videam primil
eocleaile temporibus, quam plurimos extitiale, qui faeio1111 palmariom judi- ,
eabaut, cel81118m veritatem, figmeotis IlDia il'8 adjutum, qao faeilius 110ft '
doctrina a geotium eapientibus admitteretur. Officioea hlec meodacia vocallelt
booo fine exeogitata. Quo .ex fonte dubio _
procol, nnt orti libri fare eexC81ti, !
quos ilia etas · et proxima videruot, ab homioibus millime mali&, (oam de 1
blareticorum libris non Joquimur) sub nomioe etiam Domini 1- Cbrillti et lpot' 1
tolorum aliorumque 811Dctorum publieatos."-Cuauboo, quoted io I..ar61r, :
voL 4, p. 524. ' · · ;
:j: Mosheim treats holy forgerB with tbe eame teodeme., "they,_-. '
· (be aya) wboae ioteotioaa were bed."-EccL Hiat. vol. 1, p. 109.
Dig,tizcd by Google
'I
•D¥11110l'fl 01' Clla11TI4J' 46
orbeing than the testimony of those, who we know
have palmed the grossest falsehoods on us, with the same
gravity, and as of equal authol.jty with those holy oracles?
. .
22. "This opinion has always been in the world, that to
settle a certain and assured estimation upon that which
is good and true, it is necessary to renwve out of the way,
whatsoever may be an hindrance to it. Neither ought
we to wonder, that even those of the hont>.st innocent
primitive timet! made use C!f these ·deceits, seeing for a
end they made no scruple to forge whole books."-
bailie, on the Use ofthe Fathers, b. 1; c. S.
What good end.was that, which needed to be prosecuted
by the forgery of whole books ? .
!8. "But if our unrighteoume:JB comflieftd tilt .
of God, what shall we say ?"-Rom. iii. 5. "For if tilt trwth
of God hiJth more abounded throueh my lie, utsto his gl6ry,
teAy yet am I also judged ai a rinner ?f'-Romans, iii. 7.
. !4. The apostolic father, Hermaa, who w88 the fellow-
labourer of St. Paul in the work of the ministry ; who is
greeted as such in the New Testament : and whose
writings are expressly quoted• as of divine inspiration
by the early fathers, ingenuoqsly confesses that LYING
was the easily-besetting sin of a Christian. His words
are, '
" 0 Lord, I never spake a true word in my life, but I
have always lived in dissimulation, and affirmed a lie for
, truth to all men, and no man contradicted me, but all gave
credit to my words." To which the holy angel, whom he
addresses, condescendingly admonishes him, that "as the
lie was UP, now, he had better keep it up,,and as in time
it would come to be believed, it would answer as well as
truth."
!5. Even .Christ himself is represented in the gospels
as inculcating the necessity, and setting the example of
deceiving and imposing upon the· common people, and
Plll'JlOSeJy speaking unto them in parables and double
entendres, "that seeeing, they might au, and not perceive ; attd
Maring, th.ey might hear, but not undemand."-Mark, iv. 12.
• The words of the text ale, "Now ·thou heareet, take care from henceforth,
dllt even those things which thou hast formerly spoken falsely, may by thy
)l!elent truth, receive crediL For even those things moy be credited ; if for
1be time to.come, tliou shalt tbe truth,.and by ao doio«, thou mayllt att.aio
ato life."-Arcihbiahop Wake'• Genuine EJ•iatles of the Apostolic in
loeo. See thii article, where H&aXAII OCCW'll iD tbe resuJar8UeceEion of apoe-
tolic iD tbia Du:o&aJe.
Dig,tizcd by Google
46 ..• J.DMIISIONS Oll' CHBISnJ.lf Wllli'Eas.
!6. And -divine inspiration, so f&r from inTolving any
guarantee tl)at truth ·would be spoken under its immediate
intluence, is in the scripture itself, laid down as the
criterion whereby we may know that nothing in the shape
qf truth is to be expected :-" J.btd if the prophet be dtuioed
when ht hath 1p0ken a thing, I; tht Lmd, have deuitled tiUJl
xiv-. 9.
27. When it intended that King Ahab should be
seduced to his inevitable destruction, God is represented
as haying employed his faith and· piety as the means of
his overthrow :-".Now, therefore, the LorrJ, hath pvl .a lpg
spirit in tht mouth of aU thy prophtu."-1 Kings, xxii. 2S.
There were four hundred of them,,allspeaking under the
influence of ·divine inspiration, all -having received ·the
spirit from on high, all of-them the servants of God, and
engaged in obeying none other than godly. motiOllB,
yet lying as fast as if the Jather of 'lies himsel( had com·
missioned them. Such a set of fellows) .so employed,
cannot at least but make us suspeet some sort of sarcasm
in our TE DEuM, where ·We say, "the goodly fellowhip of
the praise -tku." The devil .would hardly think
such sort of praise, a compliment. Happy would it· have
been for Ahab, had he been an Infidel. . · .
28. The New Testament, might hope, as
being a second revelation from God, would have given
hiftl an opP.ortunity of " reperdirw of lht luul 3p0km ;"
but alas ! orthodoxy itself is constrained to tremble and
adore, before that dreadful declaration, than which no
' religion thatever was in the world besides, ever contained
any thing halfso horrible :--,." For this cauu, God shall 8ftlll
them atrong deluairm that they ahould belift1e a lie, that tluy aU ·
might be damned."-2 Thess. il. 11, 12. Such was to be I
the effect of divine revelation.· • . · ·
Should then, our further prosecution_of the inquiry ;
proposed by this DtEGEsiS, lead us to the conviction that
the amount of evidence for the pretensions of the Chris- .
tian religion, is as strong as it may be, i_t will yet remain ,
for an inquiry, which we shall never venture to prosecute, 1
whether that strength of evidence itself,.may not be atrong 1
· deluaion. Strong enough must that delusion needs be, •
by which Omnipotence would intend to impose on the ,
credulity and weakness of his creatureB. Is it for thoee 1
who will defend the apparent inferences of such a passage,
to point out any thing in .the grossest conceits, of the
' Dig•tizcdbyGoogle ·
ADMU810N8 01' CHRISTIAN· Wlllftllt. .fJ
grossest forms of PagAnism, th&t might not have
ofa palliative interpretation ?
!9. St. Paul himself, in an ambiguous text, either
openly glories in the avowal, or but faintly repels the
charge of practising a continued system of imposture and '
dissimulation. "For unto tht Jew, (says he) I became Gt
a Jew, that I might gain tht Jew1. To tht wok, became I Gt
wak, that J· might gain tht tDtak ; I am made aU thitag1 to all
tatn."-1 Corinth. ix. .22. . · .
80. And in a passage still more pregnant with inference
to our great inquiry, (2 Galat. ii.) he distinguishes the
gospel which he preached on ordinary occasions, from
" that gospel 'Which he preached pritlately to tlatm that wre of
reputation.,
81. Dr. Mosheim. admits, that the Platonist& and Pytha-
goreans held it as a maxim, that it was not only lawful,
but praiseworthy to deceive,·and even to use the expedient
of a lie, in order to advance the cause of truth and piety.
The Jews who lived in Egypt, had learned and received
this maxim from them, before the coming {)f Christ, as
appears incontestibly from a multitude of records,
and the Christians were infected from both these sources,
with same pernicious vol. 1. p. 197.
82. In the fourth century, the same author in-
structs · us " that it.· was an almost utaitlertally adopted
maxim, that it was an act of virtue to deceive and lie,
when by such means the interests of the church might be
promoted.,-Vol. 1. p. 198. .
83. And as tt regards the fifth eentury, he continues,
the simplicity and ignorance of the generality in those
tirqes, furnished the most favourable occasion for the ex-
ercise of fraud ; and the impudence of impostors in eon-
triving false miracles, .was artfully proportioned to the
credulity of the vulgar : while the sagacious and the wise,
who perceived these cheats, were overawed into silence
by the dangers that threatened their lives and fortunes,
ifthey should expoee the artifice.,-Mosheim, Eccl. Hist.
vol. .2. p. 11. ·
84. Nor must we, in any part of our subsequent inveeti-
gation, quit our hold on the importa,nt admission of the
fact 8Upplied tG us by the research of that most eminent
ofcritics, the great SEM-LER-that the books of the
Christian Scriptures (from which cireumatance, it may be,
they derive their name of IGCrul} were, during the early
Dig,tizcd by Google
48 .A.DJIIttiOl'fS 01' ·CRitiiTI.A.!f ·WitiTJ:ItJ,
ages of Chri8tlanity, l'eally kept_Mettd. " The Chrietian
Doctors {says he) never brought their sacred books before
the common people ; although people in general have been
wont to think otherwise ; during the first ages, they were
in the hands of the clergy only."* I solemnly invoke the
rumination of tne reader to the inferences with which this
admission teems. I "'ite, but.eannot think for him. The
light is in his hand :(what it shall ,show him, must depend
on his willingness to see.J . · . .
85. How the- oommoh people were christianized, we-
gather from a remarkable passage which Mosheim has
preserved for us, in the life of Gregory, surnamed Thau-
maturgus, that is, the wonder-worker : the passage is as
foltows :t · · .
When Gregoey perceived that the simple and unskilled
multitude persisted in their wol'8hip of images, on account
of the pleasures and sensual gratifications which they
enjoyed at the Pagan festivals, he .granted them a permis-
sion to indulge themselves in the like pleasures, in cele-
brating the memory of the holy martyrs, hoping, .that iii
process of time, they would return, of their own· accord,
to a more virtuous and regular course of life." )'he his-
torian remarks, that there is no sort of doubt, that by this
permission, Gregory allowed the Christians to dance, sport,
and feast at the tombs of the martyrs, upon their respec-
tive festivals, and to do every thing which the
were accustom.ed to do in their temples, during the feasts
celebrated in hononr of their gods.":_Mosheim, 1.
Cent. !. p. !02. .
36. This accommodating and truly Christian spirit was
carried te such an extent, that the images of the Pagan
deities were in some instances allowed to .remain, and
continued to receive diVine honours, in Christian churches.
The images of the sybills, of which Galleus has us
prints, were·retained in the Christian church of Stenna."t
-Bell's Pantb. 2. 287.
• Cbriatiani doctonle non in np pri>debaut libroe -,lieet eolelat pleriqae
aliter opinari, eraut tantllm in maaibu clericonam, priora per leCIIIa.-.Diuertct.
in Tertlll._
l. § 10. Mte 87.
t Cam aoi0111dvert8et Gnpriua qaod ob delectation• et .,._
· kaptat., simplex et il'nperitam vulgus in eimalaeroram eaJt.. emmt ,.,_.
· Deret--permisit eie, at in memoriam et. recordatiooem IIJlCitOram
- oblectarent, et io laltiam· eilimcletaa...-, qaod n-temporil aliiJaaodo
fidanam ..et, 11t - ipODte, ad lloDBiliorem et ecclll'lltiorem Yite miOnem_
ll'alllireat...
*The head'o(the Jupiter Olympiua or Pbicliu, eamMI ..... --.D)' ....
•pt, officiat. at this day, • tetaetw (or God AJmiabty, in the Cbapel of
,Kine'•Collep, Cambftdae.
Dig,tizcd by Google
.&.
DJUIIIONI o• CRIUSTUlf WIUTEas. 49
Among the eaered writings which the church has seen
fit to deem there was a book attributed to
Christ himself, in which he declares that he was in no way
against the heathen gods.-Jonea on the Canon, vol. 1.
11. Origen vindicates, without denying the charge
of Celsus, " that the Christian Religion contained nothing
but what Christians held in ·common with heathens:
nothing that was new, or tru1y great."-&llamy't 'l'rdmla-
tion, 4.
· 37. Even under the primitive. discipline, and before the
conversion of Rome, while the church was cautious of
admitting into her worship any thing that had a relation
to the old idolatry: yet even in this period, Gregory
Thaumaturgus, is commended by his namesake of Nyssa,
for changing the Pagan festivals into Christian holidays,
the better to draw the heathens to the religion of Christ.•
38. Thus Paulinus, a convert from Paganism, of sena-
torian rank, celebrated for his parts and learning, and who
became Biahop of Nola, apologizes for setting up certain
paintings in his cl»lrch, dedicated to Felix the
Martyr, " that it was done with a design to draw the rude
multitude, habituated to-the profane rites of Paganism, to
a knowledge and good opinion of the Christian doctrine,
by learning from these pictures, what they were not capa-
ble of learning from books; i. e. the Lives and of
Christian Saints."-See Works of Paulinm, B. 9. .
89. Pope Gregory, called the Great, about two centu-
ries later, makes the same apology for ifMgts or picturu,
in churches; declaring them to have been introdQ.eed for
the sake ofthe Pagam; that those who did not know, and
could not read the Scriptures, might learn from those
images and pictures what they ought to worship.t
40. Paulinus declares the object of these images and
pictures to have been, " to draw the heathens the more
easily to the faith of Christ, since by tlooking in crowds to
gaze at the finery of these paintings, and by explaining to
each other the stories there represented, they would
dually acquire a reverence for that religion, which inspU"ed
80 much virtue and piety into its professors."
• N,-e. .ill Vita Thau-t. oit. Middleton, Crom Roi;oe• 286.
uture of Gft!S0'1 ia the more commendable, maiDiach u 1t wu a
retarD or the lille clep!e of .. had beea abowa to himael£
W111 ttlkm tn to the Cbriatian milliaay, ud COQII8Cntecl a bilbop of Cbrilt,
ad wroaak miraelel, 8'feD wbile be a Papn, ud W1ll eotirely iporul
otthe Cbriatian cloctriDe.
f F.pil&. L t, e. t.
6
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
SQ ADMISSION'S OF CHIUfiTIAN' WRITERS.
41. But these compliances, as Bishop 8tiUingflttt o)).
serves, were attended with very bad consequences ; sjnce
Christianity became at" last, by that means, to be nothing elst hi
refornud Paganism, as to its difline worship.• .
4.2. The learned Christian advocate, M. Turretin, in
describing the state of Christianity in the fourth century,
has a well turned the point of which is, "that
it was not so much the empire that was brought over to
the faith, the faith that was brought over to the em-
pire: not the Pagans who were converted to. Christianity,
but Christianity that was converted to Paganism."t
. 43. ·" From this era, then, ·according to the accounts ot
all writers, though Christianity became the public and
tablished religion of the government, yet it was·forced to
sustain a perpetual struggle for many ages, against the
obstinate efforts of Paganism, which was openly espoused
by some of the emperors; publicly tolerated and privately
favoured by ·others; and connived at in .some degree by
all."--.M'Wdleton'a utters from Bomt. . .
44. Within thirty years after Constantine, the emperor
Julian entirely restored PagariisrQ, and abrogated all the
laws which· had been made. against it. · Though it is
utterly untrue that he was ever guilty of anr act of perse-
cution or intolerance· towards Christians.; The three
emperors, who next in order succeeded.Julian, i..e. Joman,
Yalentinian, Valem; though they :were Christians by pro-
. fession, were yet wholly indifferent and neutral between
the two religions; granting an equal indulgence and tole-
ration to them both. So that they may be as fairly
claimed to. be Pagan as Christian emperors. Nor had
even Constantine himself, the first for whom the 'designa-
tion of a Christian emperor has been challenged,
the rite of Christian baptism before he was dying, or ever
in his life cel'lSed to be, and to officiate, as a priest of the
g9ds.
Gratian, the seventh emperor from him, and fourth
after Julian, though a sincere believer, never thought fit to.
annul what Julian had restorec;t. He was the first however
I .
• See BiBhnp Stillindleet'' Defence of·the char&e .of Idolatry apiaat tbe
Romaniets, vol. 6 of his'""Works, p. 469, where the reader will find the cbarp
demo118trably proved agailllt the ebarch of Rome. .
t " Non imperio ad fidem addaeto, led et imperii pompa eccleeiam inficieDae.
Non etbnicit ad Cbristum eonvereia, eed et Christi religione ad Edmice formam
depravata."-<>rat. Aeadem. De Variie Christ. Rei. fati!t.
*See vindication of hil obaracter, in the Lion, vol.. l, No. 18. 12th r..._
&om Oakham. , ci
Dig,tizcd by Google
A.DMISSIONB OJ' CHRISTIAN WRITERS. 61
of the emperors who refused the title and habit of the
Pontifex Maximus, as incompatible with the Christian
So that till up to the year 884, there
was no actual disunion ·between Christ and Belial; no
evidence of miracles or strength of reaeon had been
offered to attest the superiority of the 'Christian religion,
to demonstn:lte that there was any material distinction
between that and Paganism, or to determine the mind of
any of the Roman emperors, that there was an incon-
sistency in being a Christian and a Pagan at the same
time. ·
45.· The affioont put by Gratian upon the Pagan priest-
hood, in refusing to wear their p6ntifical robe, was so
highly resented, that one of them is recorded to have said,
ainu the emptror refwes to be our Pontifez .Mazimus, ue mll
tJtry sltorlly take care that our Pontifez shall be .Mazimur; .
46. In the subsequent reign of Theodosius, whoee lawe
were generally severe upon the Pagans, SfiDI!1achWJ, the
of Rome, presented. a memorial m the
terms, and in the name4 the &nate and ptoplt of .Romt, for
leave to replace the altar of victory in the senate house;
whence it had been removed by Gratian. This memorial
was answered by & . .8mbrost, who in a letter upon it to
the emperor, observes,.that, " when the petit.oners had so
many temples and altars of their own, in all the streets of
Rome, where they might freely offer their sacrifices, it
seemed to be a mere insult on Christianity, to demand still
one altar more; and especially in the senate house, where
the greater part were then Christians." This petition was
rejected by Valentinian, against the advice of all his
council, but was gmnted presently after by the Christisn
emperor, Eugenius, who murthered and succeeded him.
Thus entering on the fifth century, and further surely
we need not descend: we have the surest and most une-
quivocal demonstration, that Christianity, as a religion
distinct from the ancient up to that time, had
gained no extensive footing m the world. After that pe-
riod, all that there was·of religion in the world, merges in
·the palpable obscure of the dark The pretence to
an argument for the C_hristian from any thing
either miraculous or extraordinary m its propagation, is
therefore, a sheer defiance of all evidence ·and reason
whatever.
47. "Pantamus, the bead of the Alexandrian .school,
was probably the first who enriched· the .church with a
Dig•tizcd b
1Google
•
•
51 .&.D'MIBSIOIU OJi' CBRISTUI" WRITJi:B.S,
I
version of the sacred writings, which has been lost
among the ruins of time.-.M'osh. vol. .J. 186.-Compare
mth No. 84 i" tkia Chapttf'.
48. " They an, (i. e. all the fathers of the second cen-
tury) attributed .a double semt to the words of Scripture,
the one obvious and literal, the other hidden and myste-
rious, which lay concealed, as it were, under the veil of
the outward letter. The former they treated with the
· utmost neglect," &c.-Ibid. 186. ·
49. " God also hath mnde us able ministers of the New
Testament, not of the letter but flf the spirit: for the let-
ter killeth, but the l!lpirit giveth life."-2 Corinth. iii. 6.
50. "It is here to be attentively observed (8ays Mo-
sheim, ofthe church in the second. century) that
·the form used m the exclusion of heinous offenders from
' the society of Christians, was, at first, extremely simple;
but was, however, imperceptibly altered1 enlarged by an
addition of a vast multitude of rites, and new-modelled ao-
cordiilg to the discipline used in the ancient mysteries."
--.Molh. vol. I. p. 199. · ·
6L " The profound respect that was paid to the Greek
and Roman mysteries, and the extraordinary sanctity that
was attributed•:to ·them, induced the Christians, (of the
second century) to give their religion a myrtic air, in order
to put it upon an equal footing, in point of dignity, with
that ·of the Pagans. For this purpose, they gave the
name of myiteriu to the institutions-of the gospel, and
decorated, particularly the holy sacrament, · with tbat
solemn title. They used, in that sacred institution, as also
in that of baptism, several of the employed in the
heathen mysteries, and proceeded so far at length, as even
to adopt some ofthe rites and ceremonies of which those
renowned mysteries consisted."-Ibid. 204.
52. " It may be further observed, ·that the custom of
teaching. their religious doctrines, by actions,
signs, and other.sensible representations, whiCh prevailed
the Egyptians, and indeed in almost all the eastern
nations, was.anothercause of the increase of external rites
in the church."-Ibid. 204. .
68. "Among the ·human means that contributed to mul-
tiply the number of Christians, and extend the limits of
the church in .the third century7 we shall find a great
variety of causes uniting their influence, and contributing
jointly to this happy purpose. Among these muttt be
reckoned the zeal and labours of Origen, .and the different
o;9; ized byGoogle
ADMISSIONS OF .CHRISTIAN WIUT&RI. 63
,orks which were publishPd by learned and pious men in
defence of the gospel. If among the causes of the pro-
pagation of Christianity, there is any place due to PIOUs
rRAuns; it is certain that tMy merit a yery small part of
the honour of having contributed to this glorious purpose,
since they were practised by few, and that very rarely."•
-.Mo.hftm·
, vol. I, p. 246.
54. " Origen, invited from Alexandria by an Arabian
prince, converted by his assiduous labours a certain tribe
of wandering Arabs to the Christian faith. The Goths,
a fierce and warlike people, received the knowledge of the
gospel by the means of certain Christian sent
thither from .lhia. .The holy lives of these venerable
teaehe1'8, and the MIRACULOUS. POWERS with which they
were endowed, attmcted the esteem, even ·of a people
educated to nothing but plunder and devastation, and
absolutely uncivilized by letters \ or science: and their
authority and i.nftuence beeame so-great, and produced in
of time BUCh remarkable effects, that a great part
Of this barbarous people professed tb.emselves the disciples
of Christ, and put off, in a "'""*"' that ferocity which had
been so natural to them."-:Vol. I, .247.
55. "Among the superhuman means," which, after all
that he has admitted, this writer thinks can alone suffi..
ciently account for the successful proPeg&tion of the
gospel, " we not only reckon the intrinsic force of celestial
tnlth, and the piety and fortitude of those who declared
it to the world, but also that and inltrpoBin.g pro-
eitknu, which by M-tamt and trilitml, presented to the minds
of many, who were either inattentive to the Christian
doctrine, or its professed enemies, touched their hearts
with a convictioq of the truth, and a sense of its import-
ance; and engaged them without delay to profeea them-
eelvee the disciples of Christ."
56. " To. this may also be added, the lttaitag of
and other miracles, which many Christians were yet
enabled to perform, by invoking the name of the Divine
Saviour.-.Moslatim, vol: I, p. .245.
On these last four most important admissions; the
reader will observe, that it may be enough to remark,
that the principle on which this _work l8 so
• How ID1IIt fiVflrJ iJI&emaou IJIIl virtao111 lelllibility in man'• uature, have ·
aaned the olbeinr obliaed to - lanpace like this. I bow the
- who bath prefened me fate or fefolll, and wcnald ritber lltill, cmJy fielD
.. priloa to the tiomb, than be woGid the like. ...
;•
'
Dig,tizcd by Coogle
54 A.DJIUIIONI 01' CBJUITUN WJUTE&I.
well expresf!led in ita motto, that philO.op/ay vltiM u
agreeable to Mtvrt,, apprOfJe and chnish; but .tllat vhicl&
pretends to commerce with the deity, avoid! pledges us to view
all references to supernatural 'agency,·as being no proor
of such agency, but as demonstration absolute. of the
idiotish .stupidity, or arrant knanry of the party, rest-
ing .any cause whatever on such referenoee. It •is not
in the former of these predicaments, that such an historian
as Mosheim, can be impeached;. nor could either the
emoluments or dignities of- the theological chair at Helm-
, stadt, or the chancellorship of the University of Gottingen,
allay the smartings of sentiment, and·the anguish of COI'l-
seious meanness, in holding them at so· dear a price, u
the necessity of making such statements, of thus
his name to the secret scorn of all whose praise waa worth
ambition, thus outraging his own convictions, thus con-
flicting with his own statements; thus down hill
stupendous strength of talent, to harmonize With the fifr-
ments of drivelling idiotcy; making learning do. homegoe to
.b!norance, and the clarion that should have roused the
sleeping world,'pipe down to concert with the rattle-trap
and Jew's-harp of the nureery.
Of the pious frauds, which this historian admits to
share only a small part of the honour of contributing to
the propagation of the· gospel, because they were "praO:
tised by so few;" he had not the aJieviation to his feetiBgs,
of being able· to be ignorant that ·he had fals\fied ·that
in innumerable passages of this and his othtr
writings; and that 'his whole history of the church, from
first to last, not so much as a single instance, of
one of the fathers of the clmrch, or firilt preachers of the
gospel, who did·taot practiee those pious · ·
5'7. "The auth-ors who have treated of tlrle innoeea.e
and sanctity ·of.the primitive Christians, have fallen illto
the error of ' supposing them to have unspotted
models of ·piety and virtue, and a gross error indeed it
ie, 8s the strongest testimonies too e'ridently "".-
Ibid. p. 1!0. · ,
58.• " Such was the license (}{ inventing, !0 headlong - I
the readiness of believing, in the first. ages, that tbe
cred:toility of transactions derived from thence, must ·ha"e
been hugely doubtful: nor has the world only, but the
• " Tanta fiait primis-Iii fingendi tam prona in credeodo.facilicu, tt
fldea•iDde p1'iter labo..verat. Nequ uim orbia terranHD IIID-
a.m, led et Dei eccleeiade tempori._ lllil a»JI&icitIDirito "-FeU.BileP
op otOdord, qaoted by Larduer ud TindaL
Dig,tizcd by GoogIe
AD.IIIIGNII 01'' CBRIII!'IAK WlliH&I. 56
church ,of God aleo, has rea8onably·to complain of its
mystical times."-.Bishop· Fell, 10 in 1M .lltillwr's
SntTAGMA, p. 84.-
59. " The extravagant notions which obtained among
the Christians of the primitive ages, (says Dupin)
from the opinions of the Pagan philosophers, and from
the mysteries; which men put on the history
of the Old and New-Testament, according to their
nations. The more extraordinary these opinions were,
the more did they relish, and the better did they like
them; and those who invented them, published them
gravely, as great ..mysteries to the simple, who were all
disposed to receive them."-Dupin'a 8latwt HWiory of lite
'Church, vol. 2. c. 4, as qu«td·by Tindal, p. 2.24.
00. " They ·have but little ·knowledge of the Jewish
nation, and of the priflrilit,e Christians, .who obstinately
refuee to believe that such sort of notions could not pro-
.ceed frolll thence; for on the contrary, it was their very
oharaeter to turn the whole-ecripture into allegory."-.-.8rcJ&..
lMaop Walu'a !Aft oftAt ap01tle Bamabaa, p. 78.
Of the MIRAcULous Poweas with whioh Mosheim•
would persuade us that the Christitpls of the third century
were still endowed; we have but to confront him with his
own conflicting statement, on the 11th page of his second
volume: concluding with his own reflection on that ad-
mission:-" Thus does it generally happen in human life, ·
that when danger attends the discovery and the profeeaion
.rthe truth, the prudent are silent, the multitude believe,
and impostors triumph." .
Of the DREAMS AMD VIS(0JfS1 of which he speaks; it .is
enough to answer him with the intnitive demonstration,
that euch·sort of evidence for Christianity, be as
easily pretended for ..one religion as another; .1t is such
as none but a desperate oause would appeal to, suah
'88 no rational man woUld reBpeet, and no honetlt man
maintain; not only of_ no nature to aflOrd proof to the
daime of a divine revelation, but itself unproved; and
not alone unproved; but of ite ·own nature, both moralll
and physically, fucapable of receiving ·any sort of proo .
The heart smarts for the degradation of outraged reaeon,
for the humiliation· of torn and lacerated humanity; that
a Mosheim should talk of dreams and -visions-that it
ahould come to this! 0 Christianity, how great are thy
triumphs!
• VeL I, p..14'7.
06 ADXIISlONI OF CHillSTU.K W&lfliU.
·Of the HEALING· ·c»' »musEs, 'by the. invoking of a
name·
. It is impossible not to that this author did
not believe his own argt:Jplent : because it is
not to know that no man in his senses could believe it,
· and impo8sible not to suspect, that so weak and foolish
an argument, was by this author, purposely exhibited as
one of the main pillars of the Christian .in order
to betray to future times, how weak that evidence was,
and.to encourage those who should come to live i». some
happier day when the choused world might Detter endure
the being unde.
ceived·;-to blow it down with their breath.
Beausobre, Tillotson, South, .Watson,. j;)aley, and some
high in the church, yet living, have.given more than.preg.-
nant inuendoes of their acting on this policy. , ·
Nothing is more obvious,.than that pel'8()ns .diseased in
body, must la}>our under a corresp(lnding, wea.kness of
mind. There is no delusion of such obvious practi-
cability on a weak mind in a diseased body ; as that
which should hold out hopes of cure, beyond the promise
. ofnature. A miracle ofhealing, is therefore of all miracleel
in its own nature most suspicious, .and· least capable ol
evidence. . .
It was the pretence to these gijtl of Mali•g, that gave
name to the 'l'herapeutre, or Healers ; and consequently sup-
plies us with an infallible clue to lead to the birth.place and
cradle of Christianity. The cure being performed by
intlocation of a name, still lights us on to the .germ and
nucleus of the whole system. Neither slight.nor few are
the indications of this magical or supposed charyning
operation of the Brwtum fulmm; the mere name only of the
words, Juva Christ, in·the New Teetament.itself; and con-
sequently neither weak nor inconsecutive are our realou,
for-maintaining that it was in tht
that the first preachers of Cbristiaruty beheved ; that 1t
was not supposed by them to be the designation .of any
person who had. really existed, but was a a prtBierea
nikil,---a charm more powerful than the .!lbrazas, more
sacred than .!lbratadabra ; in short, thoa ·were but the
spells that bound the services of demons- thil,
conjured the assistance of omnipotence, and was indeed,
the God's spell. "There v tWRt . otJtao NAME tmtkr htatleti,
(says the Peter of 'the ·Acts of the Apostles) pen among
mtn; .
tllhtrtby.we must be ltl1led.7'---Chap. iv. 1.2. -
61. Origen, ever the main strength and sheet·anehor
of the advocates of Christiwty, expressly maintains, that
Dig,tizcd by Google
ADMIIIJOKI Or CBaiiTU.l'f WalTERS. 6'7
4' the miraculous powers which the Christians poeseued,
were not in the least owing to enehantments, (which he
makes Celsus seem to have objected,) but to their pro-
nouncing the name I. E. S. U. S,• and making mention
of some remarkable occurrences of his life. Nay, the t10r11e
of I. E- S. U.S, has had such power over demons, that
it hu sometimes proved effectual, though pronounced by
very wiaked persons."-..afii!Def' to Celnil, chap. 6.
62. "And the Mmt of I. E. S. U. S, at this very day,
composes the rtUiled minds of men, dispo88e88ee demons,
cures diseases ; and .works a meek, gentle, and amiable
temper in all those persons, who make profession of
Christianity, from a higher end than their worldly inte-
rests."-lbid. 57. So says Origen. No Christian will for
a moment think that there is any salving of the matter in
euch a statement. Friar's balsam was found in every case
without fail; to heal the wound, even after a man's head
was clean cut·off, provided his head were set on again the
riglat way. ·
63. " When men pretend to work miracles, and talk of
immediate revelations, of the truth by revelation,
and of m_ore than ordinarr illwrunation ; we ought not to
be frightened by those b:tg ·words, from looking what is
under them; nor to be afraid of calling those things into
question, which we see set off with such high-ftown pre-
tences. It is somewhat strange that we should believe
men the more, for that very reason, upon which we should
believe them the less.-Clagit'a PerauaBitJe to· an lngcnUOUB
Trial of OpinioN, p. 19, aa quoted by .'Jindal, p. 217.
64. St. Chrysostom declares, "that miracles are only
proper to excite sluggish and vulgar minds, that men of
sense have no oecasion for them, and that they frequently
carry so01e uniotDard suspicion along with them."-Quoted
iA .Middkton's Prefatory .J)iw)urse to his Luter from R.orM,
p; 104. .
In this sentiment it must be owned, that the Christian
saint ,strikingly coincides with the Pagan philosopher
Polybius, who considered all miracles as fables, invented
to preserve in the vulgar a due. sense of respect for the
deity."-Reimmann, Hut. .11th. p. .288.
65. The great theologian, Beausobre, in his immense·
Histoire de Manichee, tom. 2, p. 568, says,t " We see in
• See eimilar my.tieal ee- of tbe epithets, Cbrilt and Cbreet, uDder the arti-
dll Serapie, and Adrian's Letter.
t "Oa Yoit d&DI l'biiiiOire que j'ai rapportee, 1lll8 eorte cl'bypoerilie, qai n'a
Dig,tizcd by Google
ESIENEIJ OR THEIU.PEUTS.
the history which I have related, a sort of hypocrisy, that
has .been perhaps, but too common at ' all times : that
churchmen not only·do f&Ot say what they think, but they
do say, the direct contrary of what they think. Philo-
sophers in their cabinets ; out of they:. are content
with fables, though they well know that they are fables.
Nay more: they honest men to .the executiQner,
for having uttered what they themselves know \Q be tPU.e•
.How many Atheists and Pagans have burned holy men
under the pretext ofheresy ? Every day do hypocrites con-
secrate, and make people adore the host, though as well
convinced as I am, that it is nothing but a bit of bread.
66. The learned Grotius has a similar avowal: "He
that reads ecclesiastical history, reads nothing but the
roguery .and folly of bishops and churchmen;"-Grolii
Epist. 22. . ··
No man could quote higher authorities.
-+-
CHAPTER VII.
OF THE ESSENES OR THERAPEUTS.
A KNOWLEDGE of ib.e character and tenets of that most
remarkable set of men that ever existed, "whowere known
by the name of Essenes Qr Therapeuts, is absolutely
necessary to a fair investigation of the claims of the New
in the origination imd of which,
they bear. so prominent a part.
The celebrated German critic, Michaelis, whose great
work, the Introduction to the Xeto Testament, has been trans-
lated by Dr. Herbert Marsh, the .present Lord Bishop of
Peterborough, defines them as "a Jewish sect, which
began to ·spread itself at Ephesus, and to threaten great
mischief to Christianity,.in the time (or, indeed, previous
to the time) of St. Paul ; on which account, .in his epistles
to the Ephesians, to the Colossians, and to Timothy ; he
declares himself openly against them."f.
peut-etre ete que trop commune dana toua lea teRIB. C'eat que des ecclesiutiquel,
uon seulement Dl) ditoent ·pas ee qu'ils penaent, mais diAent tout Ie contraire de ce
qu'ils pensent. Philosopbes do.ns leur cabinet, bors deJa, ils content dee fable..
quoiqu'ils sach'lnt bien q11e ce aont des fuhles. lis font pl118 ; ils livrent au bour-
reao des gens de hiena pour ·l'aYoir dtt. Combiens d'athees et de prophanes ont
fait bruler de saints persounages, soas pretexte d 1 'fo\18 les joura de.
hypocrites, coosacrent et font adorer l'hostie, bien qu'ils soient &1188i convaincue que
m.oi, que ee n'est q11'on moreeao de pain."-Ibid.
t Miebaclill, vol. 4, p. 79.
ESIEI!tBS OR TREUPEUTS. 69
But eurely this admission of the sect's beginning to
epread itself at Ephesus, and its existenee at ColOI!l8e, and
in the diocese of Timothy, to a sufficient extent to call for
the serious opposition of one who, in any calculations of
chronology, must have been the contemporary of Jesua
Christ'; is no disparagement of the fact of its previous
establishment in Egypt ; while the admitted fact,• that
these three Epistles· of· St. Paul, in which he so earnestly
opposes -himself to this sect, were written before any one
of our four Gospels, involves the a fortiMi demonstration;
that their tenets and discipline, whatever they were, were
.not corruptions or perversions of those gospels, however
those gospels may turn out to be improvements or plagia-
risms upon the.previously established tenets and discipline
of that sect.
The ancient writers who have Siven any account ofthis
sect, are Philo, Josephus, Pliny, and Solinus. Infinite
perplexity, however, is occaaioned by modern historians
attempting to describe differences and distinctions where
there are really none. The Theraptvii.B tmd 1M Emnu en
one and tht •ame net : the which is Gruk, being
nothing more than .&.tnu, which is of the same sense in
Egyptian, and is in fact a translation of it :-as, perhaps,
SurgeoM, He4lers, Curatu, or the most vu1nr sense of
is the nearest possible plain ·Englisn of Tas:u-
PEUT..£. The similarity of the sentiments of the Essenes,
or Therapeutre, to those of the church of Rome, induced
the learned Jesuit, Nicolaus Serarius, to seek for them
an honourable origin. He contended, therefofe, that they
were Asideans, and derived them from the Rechabites,
described so circumstantially in the 85th chapter of Jere-
miah ; at the same time, he asserted that the first Chris-
tian monks were Essenes.
Both of these positions were denied by his opponents,
Drusius and Scaliger; but in respect to the latter,.says
Michaelis, certainly Serarius was in the
"The Essenes," he 4dds, "were indeed a Jewish, and
not a Christian sect." Why, to be sure, it would be awk-
ward enough for a Christian divine to admit them to the
honoUrs ofthat name before " that religion which St. Au-
gustine tells us' was before in the world,' to be
called Christian." (See Admission 12.) Tht dvciplu verc
calltd Chnmam ·first at J.lntioch (Acts). But sure, it was
aomething more than the name that made themsuch ;
• It i. admiued by Dr. Lardner.
Dig,tizcd by Googre
•
60 / EIIEKBI OR THBRAPI!UTt.
were none the less what the name signified, ere yet it WlW
conferred on them : and-the E1i18enes had every thing but
the name."
"It is evident," continues Michaelis, "from the above-
mentioned epistles of St. Paul, that to the great morti·
fication of the apostle, they insinuated very
early into·the Christian church."
But is it not, in reason, as likely that the Christians,
who were certainly the last comer,, should have insinuated
themselves into the Therapeutan community ? ·
Eusebius has ·fully shown that the monastic Jife was
aerived from the Eseenes ; and, because many Christians
adopted the manners of the Essenes, Epiphanius took the
Essenes in general for Christians, and confounded them
with the Nazarenes :-a confusion to which the similarity
of this name, to that of' the Nazarites of the Ohl Testa-
ment, might in some measure contribute. But we find
this confusion still worse confounded, in .the remarkable
oversight of the passage; Matthew ii. 28, which betrays
that Jesus himself was believed to be oneof thisfraterirlty
ofmonks.• · ....
Montfaucon and Helyot have attempted to prove them
Christians, but have been confuted by Bouhier. Lange
has contended that they were nothing more than CU'cum-
cised EgyptiaM, but has been confuted by HenmNlJl.-
Marrh'• .Michailil, vol. 4, p. 79, 80, 81.
"It wasin Egypt," says the great ecclesiastieal historian,
Mosheim, " that the morose discipline of ASceticisint i
(i. e. the Eseenian or Therapeutan discipline) took its rise;
and it is observable, that that country has in all times, as
it were by an immutable law or disposition of nature,
abounded with persons of a melancholy complexion, and
produced, in proportion to its extent, more gloomy spirits ,
than any other parts of the world.. It was here that the
Essenes dwelt principally, long bejort the coming of CI&N.
--.MosMim, vol. I, p. 196. .
" Matthew ii. 23. " That it might be faitmett wbieh wae epokeo by the
prophets, He eball be ealled a Nazarene ;" that is (as we see from Epipbauius),a
. TMrapeut. It is certain that ooue of the .Jewish prophets bad 10 IBid. SoiDI I
:other eqaaUy ac:red writiup are referred to. ' Though their aoeompliahmeut 117
•the mere 1'8118mblanee .of the uame of the city in whieb J- ia aid·to haft -
ded, to that ofthe order ofmonb to which be was believed to haft belouaecJ, il a
mOIIt miserable puu. The .ltnn, however, who think it reuouable to admit daiS
lllCb a penon u really e:Oeted, place hill bil:th liear a eeDtury eoooer thaDdie
pnerally -med epoeha.-Bamage H'utoire de1 Juif•, I. 5, e. 14, liS.
t From tbe Greek· e:rercile, tlilripline, 1hulg, tllll.ritaliM,IIipil'r•
ill«a.OO ulf-mortijication.
o;9; ized byGoogle
Z88ENES OB TBEIAPEUTI\ 61
It is not the first glance; nor a cursory observance, that
'Will sufficiently admonish the reader of the immense his-
torical wealth put into his hand, by this 81upendoua admil-
rior&, this surrender of the key-stone of the.mighty arch,-
this giving-up of every thing that can be pretended for the
evidences of the Christian religion. .
This admission of the great ecclesiastical historian (than
whom there is no greater), will serve us as the Pythagorean
theorem-the great geometrical element of all subsequent
science, of continual recurrence, of infinite application-
ever to be borne in mind, always to be.brought in proof-
presenting the means of solving every difficulty, and- the
elue for guiding us to every truth. " Bind it about thy
neck, write it upon the tablet of thy heart "-Enar
THING OF CHRISTIANITY IS OF EGYPTIAN ORIGIN. -
The first_and greatest library that ever was in the world, '
was atAleximdl'4l in Egypt. The first of that .most
mischievous of all institutions-universities, was the
University of Alexandria in Egypt ; where lazy monks and
wily fanatics first found the benefit of clubbing together,
to keep the privileges and advantages of learning to them-
selves, and concocting holy mysteries and inspired legends,
to be dealt out as the craft should need, for the perpetu-
ation .of ignorance and superstition, and consequently of
the of jugglers and jesuits, holy hypocrites,
and reverend rpgues, among men.
All the most' valued manuscripts of the Christian scrip-
tures are Codicu .O.ltzandrini. The very first bishops of
whom we have any account, were bishops of .O.ltzandritJ.
Scarcely one of the more eminent fathers of the Christian
ch\ll'ch is there, who had not been educated and trained in
the arts of priestly fraud, in the of .O.ZtzandritJ,-
that great sewer of the congregated of fana-
ticism.
In those early times, the professions of Medicine and •
Divinity w.ere inseparable. We read of the divinity stu- t
dents studying medicine .in the School, or University of
Alexandria, to which all persons resorted, who were after- ·
wards to practice in either way, on the weak in body or
the weak in mind, among their fellow creatures. The
7Yaerapeuta, or Essenes, as their name signifies, were
expressly professors of the art of healing-an art in those
days necessarily confemng the ·most mystical sanctity of
character on all who were endued with it, and the moat
convenient of all others for the purposes of imposture and
7
Dig,tizcd by Google
..
6! EISENEI 0& TB&lUPEVTI
wonderment. It was invariably considered to be attainable
only by the especial gift of heaven,• and no cure of any
sort, or in any way effected, was ever ascribed to natural
causes merely. Those who, after due training in the
ascetic discipline; were sent out from the university of
Alexandria to practice their divinely acquired art .in the
towns and villages, were recognized as
apottlts : while those who had not obtained their credentials
from the college, who set up for themselves, or who, after
having left the college, ceased to recognise its appoint-
ment, were called false apostlu, quacks, and em-
pirics. And in several of the early apocryphal scrip-
tures, we find the ·titles .llpostolici and .llpotactid (aposto-
lical, and apotactieal, i. e. of the monkish order of Apo-
tactites, or Solitaires,) perfectly synonimous. Euseblll8
emphatically calls the apotactical Therapeuts apocolical.
· "Philo (he says) wrote also a treatise on tl,.e cmttemplaltH
life, or the Worshippers; from whence, we have borrowed
those things, which we allege concerning the manner of
life of those apostolical men."t Indeed,.Christ himaelf, is
represented 88 describing his'apostles as members of this
solitaey order of monks, and being one himself :-" 'J"My
are not of 1M uorld, et1en at I am ut of the 110f"ld."-Johil
xvii. 16. What then but monks? The seceders or dis-
senters (and of· this class W88 St. Paul),t upon the
advantage of setting up in the trade upon their own mde-
pendent foundation, pleaded their sueceM in miracles of
healing, as evidence oftheir divine commission ; and abun-
dantly returned the revilings of the Therapeutan college.
Unaided by the lifrhts of anatomy, and unfounded on
any principles of rat10nal science ; recovery from disease
could only be ascribed to supernatural powers. A fever
was supposed to b.e a dmmon that had taken up his abode
in the body of the unfortunate· patient, and was to be
expelled, not by any virtue of material causes ; but by
incantations, spells, and leuc
. omamy, or white magic ; as
opposed to necromamy, or black magic, by whieh diseasee
and evils of all sorts were·believed to be.incurred. The
whitt magk consisted of prayers, fa8tinga,§ baptisms,
• "To another the pt. of healiltr, by the aame Spirit. Haft aB dle.Jiftl ot
JaeeliDs ?" 1 Cor. xii...:...Qa.ery. How did be llpeDd &fuee yeara ia Arabia, bat ill
a 00111'118 oflta.dy for the ministry ?<
t 0 (loyoc) nl(l& {lael•..q'fT•••, 'I urnow, •f·e, -rts nl(la -re {1-e -r- tsnocrro1a-
H11t. lib. 2, c. 1'7, A. J Galat. ( 17.
t thie kiad DOt oa.t ba.t by - - ucl -..u lfaa.
s•iii. 21. e-- · -
Dig,tizcd by Google
EIBEREI Oil TBEUPEUTI. 63
eacraments,·&c. which were believed to have the 88IIle
power over good dmmons, and even over God himself, u
the black magic had over evil dmmons and their supreme
head, the Devil. .The trembling patient wu only entitled
to expect his cure in proportion to his. faith, to believe
without understandii!g, and to surrender his fortune and
life itself to the purposes of his physician, and to the
business of impot!ing upon others, the deceits that had
been practised upon himself.
Even to this .day, the name retained by our sacred
writings, derived from the belief of their magical imlu-
ence, as a spell or charm of God, to drive away diseasee.
The Irish peasantry still continue to tie passages of
St. John's Spell; or St. John's God's-spell, to the horns
of cows to make them give more milk ; nor would any
powers of rational argument shake their conviction of the
efficaey of a bit of1M uord, tied round a oolt's heels, to pre-
vent them from swelling
It will bee'Ome physicians of higher elaime to seienoe
and rationality, to triumph over the veterinary piety of the
Bog of Allen, when their own forms of prescription shall
no longer betray the wish to conceal from the patient '
the nature of the ingredients to which he is to trust his
life, nor bear, as the first mark of the pen upon the paper,
the mystical hieroglyphic of Jupiltf-, the talismanic
under whose influence the prescribed herbs were to be
gathered, and from whose miraculous agency their opera-
tion was to be expected.
The Therapeutm of Egypt, from whom are descended
the vagrant hordes of Jews and Gypsies, had well found
by what arts mankind were to be cajoled ; and as they
boasted their acquaintance with the sanative qualities of
herbs of all countries ; so in their extensive puegrinationa
through all the then known regions of the earth, they had
not failed to bring home, and remodel to their own pur-
poses, those sacred spells or religious romances, which
they found ha.d been.successfully palmed on the credulity
ofremote nations. Hence the Indian Chrish.fUJ might have
become the Therapeutan head of the order of spiritual
physicians. · .
No principle was held more sacred than that of the
necessity ofkeeping the sacred writings from the know-
ledge ·of the people. Nothing could be safer from the
danger of discovery than the substitution, with scarce a
ohange of names, " of the incarnate Deity of the Sanscrit
oigit<Zed by Coogle
EIIENEI Olt THEIU.PEVTI.
Romance'' for the imaginary founder of the Therapeutan
college. What had been to have been done in India,
could be as well said to lrave been done in Palestine.
The change of names and places, and the mixi,ng up of
vari<>us sketches of the Egyptian, Greek, and
Roman mythology, would constitute a disguise
to evade the languid curiosity of infant ·scepticism. A
knowledge within the acquisition only of a few, and which
the strongest possible interest bound that few to hold
inviolate, would soon pass entirely from the records of
human memory: A long continued habit of imposing upon
others -woUld in time subdue the llllnds of the impostors
themselves, .and cause them to become at length the dupes
of their own deception, to forget the temerity in which
their first assertions had to catch the infection
of the prevailing credulity, and to believe their own lie.
In such, the known and never-changing laws ofnature,
and the invariable operation of natural causes, we find
the solution of every difficUlty and perplexity that remote-
ness of time might throw in the way of our judgment of
past events. .
But when, to such an apparatus of rational probability,
we are enabled to bring in the absolute ratification of
unquestionable testimony,-to show that what was in
supposition more probable than any thing else that could
be supposed, was in fact that which absolutely took
place,-we have the highest degree of evidence of which
history is capable ; we can give no other definition of
historical truth iuelf. , . · .
The probability, then, that that sect of vagrant quack-
doctors, the Therapeutre, who were ·established in Egypt
and its neighbourhOQd manyages before the period assigned
by later theologians as that of the birth of Christ, were the
origin1:1l fabricators of the writings contained in the New
Testament; becomes certainty on the basis ofevidence, than
which history hath nothing more certain-,-by the unguard-
. ed, but explicit-unwary, but most unqualified and positive,
' statement of the histori8Jl Eusebius, that " thole ancient
tDtre Christians, and that their ancient tttritinp
vere our GOBptZ. and Epistlu." • The wot1der with which
Lardner quotes this astonishing confession of the great
• The mo.t important JIII8SI88 of all eeoleaiastical records, is in the
2d book, the 17th chapter, and 63d and following pages of bia History. Tbe
title of a whole cbaptor (the fourth of the first bookfof this work is, TR.A.T
TB'& RELIGION PUBLIIBEil BY JJCIU8 CHBIIT TO ALL RATIOIU 18 XJ:I•
TBJ:& XJ:W XO&eiT&.A.XGI:o
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
ESSENEII OR THERA.PEUTII. 85
pillar of the pretended evidenees of the Christian religioa,•
only Shows how aware he was of the fatal inferences with
which it teems.
It is most eBBentially observable, that the Eseenes or
Therapeuts, in add-ition to their monopoly of the art of
professed themselves to be Eckctiu ;· they held
Plato m the highest esteem, though they made no scruple
to join with his doctrines, .whatever they thought con-
formable to reason in the and opinions of the other
philosophers. · ·
"These sages were of opinion that tn.e philoBOphy,t the
greatest and most salutary gift of God to mortals, waa
scattered, in various portions, through all the different
sects ; and that it was, consequently, the duty of every
wise man to gather it from the several corners where it lay
dispersed, and to employ it, thus re-united, in destroying
the dominion of impiety and Th'e principal seat
of this philosophy was ·at .8luandria; aad " it manifestly
appears," says Mosheim,§" from the testimony of Philo
the Jew, who wa8 himself one of this sect, that thie
(Eclectic) philosophy (of this· EBBenian or Therapeutan
sect) was in a flourishing state at Jlkzandria when our
Saviour was-upon elrth."-Eccl. Hut. Cent. 1, p. 1.
1. We have only to collate the admiSBion of the ortho-
dox Lactantius, that Christianity itself tD4I the Eclulk
Philosophy, inasmuch as that " if there had been any one
to have collected the truth that was scattered and diffused
among the various sects of philosophers and divines into
one, and to have reduced it into a system, there would
indeed be no difference between him and a Christian :"U
!. To compare the various tenets and epeoulations.of the
-dift'erent philosophers and religionists of antiquity. with
the strong and particular smatch of the Platonic philo-
sophy, which we actually see pervading the New Testa-
ment : and to .add the weight in all reaaon and fairD.eBl!
due to the positive testimony of that unquemonably
learned and intelligent Manichman Christian and bishop,
Faustus,..:...that " it is an undoubted fact, that the New
: Testament was not written by Christ himself, nor by hie
• Credibility' VOL ll, 4to. p. 861. - - •
t well, the Jib-,-" tlle pl&iloH,IIf,.. lllll ..
.. hw plMlo•ophy," ocicw tbro111boat the Fathen, iDa laaiidnd ...... Cor-·
wllere" Clrittianify" IOOald b&ve beeil the word.
t J&ebeim, vol. i. p. 168.
§Ibid. p. 87. · ·
I.Mmillioa No. 10 iD the cbapler of Admill io-.
,.
•
66 CHRISTIAN SCa,JPTURJi:S ANTERIOR TO CHRIST.
apostles, but a long while after their time, by some
. unknown persons, who, lest they·should not be credited
when they wrote of affairs they were little acquainted
with, affixed to their works the names· of apostles, or of
such as were supposed to ha.ve been ·their companions,
and then said that they were written cu:cording to them."...,.-
Faun. lib. 2. ·
To important passage, of _
which I reserve the
original text for niy next occasion of quoting it,• I here
subjoin what the same high authority objects, if possibly
with still increasing emphasis, the arguments of
St. Augustine :t-" For many things have been inserted
by your ancestors in the speeches of our Lord, which,
though put forth under his name, agree not with his faith ;
especially already it has been often proved
by us,-that these things were not written by Chnst, nor
his apostles, -
but a long,while after their assumption, by
I know not what sort of HALF..JEws, not even agreeing
with themselves, who made up their tale out of reports
and opinions merely ; and yet, fathering the whole upon
the names of the apostles of the Lord, or on those who
were supposed to have followed the apostles ; they men-
daciously pretended that they had v!ritten their lies and
conceits, cu:cording to them." The conclusion is irre-
sistible.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE CHRISTUN SCRIPTURES, DOCTRINES, DISCIPLINE, Al'fD
ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY, LONG ANTEIUOB TO THE PERIOD
ASSIGNED AS THAT. OF THE BIRTH OF CHRIST.
.. . . ..
·FaoM·the more general aocount of that remarkable sect
of philosophical religionists, the Egyptian Therapeuta,
which we have collected from the admissions of the most
• In chapter 16. .
t " Malta enim a lll&joribas veltris, eloquiie Domini nostri ill!lella verba 111111t ;
qam nomine lignata i{Jiiaa, cum eja. fide non congruent, .,_um, qnia, ut jam
•pe probatnm a nob• eat, nee ab ipeo bale nnt, nee ab eja. apo-.tolis ecripta, l8d
multo poet eonun &IIUIDptionem, a neacio qnibaal et ipeia inter 18 non eoncorduiQ.
boa u:xx-svD.Jna, per ramu. eomperta IIIIIt; qni tamen omaia
eadem in apoatoloram Domini eomerentee nomina, vel eoram qni aecllti apoat.olo.
tiderentar, erro- ac mendacia na 1ecundum eos 18 IICripm.e JDeDtiti IIIIIlt..,_
Awt. lib. 88, c. 1.
o,9,tizcd by Google
CHII.IITUM BCII.IPTUII.EII J.NT.EJliOlt TO CHII.IIT. 6'f
strenuous defenders of the e'ridences of the Christian
religion ; we pass into the more immediate sanctuary of
the itself, to learn from the unquestionable authority
of one who was a member of their community, all that
can now be known of what their scriptures, doctrines,
discipline, and ecclesiastical polity, were.
On the threshold of this avenue, we only pause to re-
capitulate for the reader's admonition, the certainties of .
information already established ; which, carrying with him
through the important discoveries to which we now ap-
proach, he shall with the quicker ·apprehension discern,
and with the easier method weigh and appreciate the
value of the further information to which now we tend.
1. The Essenes, ·the Therapeuts, the Ascetics, the
Monks, the Ecclesiastics, and the Eclectics, are but
ent names for one and the self-same sect.
!. The word Esstne is nothing more than the Egypt'Um .
word for that of which Therapeut is the Greek, each of
them signifying hearer or doctor, and designating the char-
acter of the sect as professing to be endued with the
miraculous gift of healing ; and more especially so with
respect to the diseases of the mind.
8. Their name ·of .flscetics indicated the severe discipline
and exercise of self-mortification, long fastings, prayers,
• contemplation, and even ·mapng of themselves eunuchl for
1M kingdom of laea11m'• Bake,• as did Origen, Melito, and
others, who derived their- Christianity from ·the same
school ; and as Christ himself is represented to have re-
cognised and approved their practic.e. .
4. Their name of .MOftkB indicated their delight in soli·
tude, their conttmplatiut and their entire segregation
and abstraction from the world : which Christ, in the
Gospel, is in like manner represented, as describing as
characteristic of the community of which he himself was
a:member.f
5. Their name of .Ecelu&amcs was of the same sense,
and indicated their being called out, · elected, separated
from the fraternity ·or mankind, and set apart to
the more rmmediate .service and honour of God.
6. Their name of .Eclectiu indicated that their ditlttlt
• "ADd there be eanucba, whieb bal'e made th-lvM eanachl for the JUua-
dom of bea"nlll's lab. He that is able to receive it, let him receive·it." Mau.
lliL 12.
t" They are Dot of'the world, nOD u I am DOt ofthe world." Jolm :nii. 16.
•• I pray for them, I pray DOt for the world." Ibid. 9. Surely, the world oapt
•• JIIIICia obliplto him !
Dig,tizcd by Google
68 CRRISTU.N SCMPTU&ES ANTERIOR TO CH&UT.
· was a collection of all the dive.r,p.og rays of
truth which were scattered through the vanous systems
of Pagan and Jewish piety, into one bright focus-that
their religion was m!J.(le up of " tDhatsoet1tr things are true,
tDhatsoetJer thing8 are ·honeat,· lhingr ·are jtut, 1Mal-
10tf1er things are ptu't, to/a.at8()efler thii.$,1-' are lotlely,
thing8 are of good report-if there tDere cmy flirtue, mtd if there
tDtre any praise," (Phil. iv. 8,) wherever found; alike indif-
ferent, whether 1t were denved frotQ. "saint, from savage,
or from sage-Je\lovah, Joye, or Lord." -
. 7. They had a flourishing university, or corporate body,
established upon these principles at Alexandria in Egypt,
long before the period assigned fo the birth of Christ.
. 8. From this body they sent out missionaries, and had
established colonies, auxiliary branches, and affiliated
communities, in various cities of Asia Minor ; which colo-
nies were ·in a flourishing condition, before the preaching
of St. Paul. : .
9. Eusebius, from whom all our knowledge of eccle-
siastical antiquity is derived, declares his opinion, that
"the sacred writings used by this sect, ·were none other
than our Gospels, and the writi:J;lgs of the apostles ; and
that certain DIEGEsEs, after the manner of allegorical
interpretations of the ancient prophets ; these were their
epistles."4 .
10. It is certain, that the Epistles and Gospels, and the
whole system of Christianity, as conveyed to us upon the
credit of the fathers ; do at this day bear the character of
being such an Eclectic epitome or seleCtion from all the
forms of religion and philosoPhy then known in the world,
as these Eclectic philosophers professed to have formed.
11. It is certain that our three first Gospels were not
written by the persons whose names they bear, but are
derived from an earlier draft of the evangelical Moi'J,
which was entitled the DIEGEsu. ·
With these lights in thy hand, enter reader, on the stu-
.pendous vista that I unlock for thee, by the best transla-
tion I could make, and better than any that I oou:Id find
ready-made, of the most important historical document in
the whole world : whichever be the second in importa.uee• .
• Tax- I',,.o, a llqXca&""' fCIJf avror, '"'"' •IHI&Y yalaa, .aaa
'1'..,. 1111'00ToliiW y(llllfa,, ..I.IHI'H:ZBI:Z n 111111'11 n '"'"'
&, BU. lib, 2, .....
/IL etl. Oolofai• Allobropra, 1612, p. 60, tUililerGm D, 6.
DigotizcdbyGO gle
CBRIITU.N ICIUPTVREI ANTERIOR TO CBRIIT. 69
77lt Siztunth Chaptir of tht &cond· Book of 1M Eccluialtical
History, of Etuebiw Pamphilw.
"St. Mark, the Evangelist, is said first to have been
eent into Egypt, and to have preached there the same
gospel which he afterwards committed to writing. There
he established the churches of Jllezandria; and so great was
' the nwnber of both men and women that became believers
upon his first address, on account of the more philosophi-
cal and intense Asceticism, (which he both taught and
. practised,). that Philo has seen. fit to write a history of
their- mannel' of living, their assemblies, their sacred
feasts, and their whole course of life.
I. He so accurately details the manner of living of those
who with us have been called Jlacetiu, as to seem not
merely the historian of their most remarkable tenets, nor
as being acquainted with them merely ; but as having em-
braced them ; and both joining their religious rites, and
extolling those apostolical men, who, as it is likely; were
descended from Hebrews, and who therefore were wont
to observe very many of the customs of the ancients, after
a more Jewish fashion. ·
J. In the first place, thtm, in the discourse which he has
written concerning tht contemplatitle life, or of men of prayer;
having pledged himself to add nothing to his history of.a
foreign nature, of his own invention, or beyond truth ; he
mentions that they were called htalera, or curates, and the
women who were among them doctresses, or 'rherapeu-
tesses ; adding the reasons of such a designation, that as
a sort of physicians, delivering the souls of those who ap-
plied to them from evil passions, they healed and restored
them to virtue ; or on account· of their pure and sincere
ministry and religion with respect to the Deity.
8. Whether, therefore, ofhimself, as writing suitably to
their manners, Philo gave them this designation : or
whether, indeed, the first of that sect took the name
when the appellation of Christians had as yet been no
where announced, it is by no means necessary to discuss ;
4. So at the same time, 'in his' narration, he bears wit-
ness to their renunciation of property, in the first instance ;
5. And that, as soon as· they begin to philosophise, they
divest themselves of all re-venues of their estates ;
6. And then, having laid aside all the anxieties of life ;
and leaving society, they make their residence. in solitary
wilds and gardens ; _
Dig•tizcd by Google
'70 C:BRIITUK I,CRIPTUJlEI A.NTRR:IOJl TO CBJliiT.
7. "For from the that· they· resolved from enthu-
siasm and the most ardent (wbieh indeed was need-
ful), to practice themselves in the emulation of the pro-
phetic Ufe, they were well .aware that converse with
persons of dissimilar sentiments, would be unprofitable
and hurtful : • . ·
8. Even as it is related in the accredited Acts of the
Apostles,* that all who were known of the apostles (laad
imbibed their dottrint) were wont .to sell their possessions
and substance, and divided them among all, according as
any one had need, so that there was ·not one among them
in want; .
9. For, whoever w-ere owners of estates or houses, as
.tht tDordt says, sold them, and brought .the prices of the
things sold, and laid them at the· apostles' feet, that it
might be divided to each as every.one had need;
10. Philo relates things' exactly similar to these which
we have·referred to ; bearing-witness to their resemblance,
even to the letter, saying, . .
11. For though·this race of men are to be found in all
parts of the world : nor would it be 1j.tting that either
Greece or Barbary should not in so perfect a
good ; yet they abound in Egypt, in each of the provinces
called the Pasturages, and more especially in· the neigh-
bourhood of Alexandria ;
12. And the best of men, from all parts of the world,
betake themselves to the country of the Therapeutre, as
to a colony, in some .most convenient place; such aa is
situate near the Lake of Maria,+ on a small eminence, very
opportune both on account of its safety, and the agreeable
temperature of the climate. . .
18. And so, after having described what sort of habita-
tions they occupied, he speaks of tlu churchu§ established
throughout the country, as follows :
14. In each parish there is a sacred edifice which is
caJled the temple, and a monastery,!! in which the monks
perform the mysteries of the sublime life, taking. nothing
with them, neither JDeat nor drink, nor any thing neces-
sary for the wants of the body ; but the laws, tpe divinely
inspired oracles of the pro}>hets, and hymns, and- such
other things as in which is ·understanding, aad by which
true piety is increased and perfected ;
l5. And among other things, he says, that their religious
exercise oecupi.es the whole time from morn till evening ;
• AcCII iY.
§ Nota belle.
t Nota beoe.
II Nota beoe.
:t: Nota bene
Dig,tizcd by Google
CBB.IITU.N .IClliP'fUll&l .&l'I'TE&IOll TO CBlliiT. 'JJ
16. " For thoee who preside over the holy
philosophise upon tltem, expounding their literal sense by
allegory; '
17. Since they hold that the sense of the spoken mean-
ing is of a hidden nature, indicated in a doubk Beftlt.•
18. They have also the writings of the ancients: and
those who were the first leaders of their sect, have left
them many records of the sense conveyed in those alle-
gories : ·using which as a sort of examples, they imitate
the manner of the original doctrine :t
19. And these things, it seems, are reported by a man
wholistened to the holyscripture@, astheyexpounded them ;
20. in short, it is very likely that those scriptures
ofthe ancients, of which he speaks, were the and
the writings of the Apostles ;
!1. And that certain DrEGE&Es,t as it seems, of the
ancient prophets, interpreted ; such as the Epistle of Paul
to the Hebrews contains, and many other&-theee were
the Epistles. .
!2. So, again, he proceeds to write concerning the new
which they make : .
23. For they do not confine themselves to contempla·
tion, but they compose and hymns to God, ar-
conveniently in every measure, and in the most
subfime sorts of metre.
14. And many other thinga he relates in the discoUI'88
of which we treat ; .
15. But these it seemed neceesary to recount, in which
the characteristics of the eccluialtical itUCitulion§ are laid
down.·
!6. But if it seem to any one that what has been said is
not strictly and essentially meant of the gospel polity, but
may be thought to harmonise with other things than those
referred to, he may be conVinced by the very words of
Philo, in order following (so he be but an impartial judge),
in which he will receive an linanewerable testimony on
. this matter ; for thus he : ·
!7. And laying down temperat'ICt!l as a sort of foundation
to the soul, they build the other virtues upon it ;
JS. • Neither meat nor drink do any of them take ·before
sun-set,' as considering the business of philosophy worthy
of the light, but the neceseities of the body only apt for
darkness ; ·
• Nota beae. t Nota bee. -t Nota "-. Nota '-eo
I Eyxqcrrauw, tetraperartU, ab111natu, from wlaeDoe their-
E.eratiaei, or . .
Dig,tizcd by Google
'JJ CBRIITIAI'f • ICRI'PTURI:I .&.l'fTERIOR· TO CB&IIT.
29. Whence to this assigned the day, but only a
small part of the night to that ; .
SO. And some of them think not of nourishment for
three days, so .much greater is their desire of under-
standing; . .
Sl. And some so delight themselves ,and triumph, as
banquetted on wisdom, so richly and !'!Qtisfactorily m.ini&-
tering her doctrine ; as to abstain for ·a double length of
time, and scarce after six days to taste of necessary food
in the way of eating ! · · , · - .
82. These clear and indisputable remarks of Philo, we
consider to be spoken of men of religion only.•
88. But if any one should yet be so hardened as to con-
tradict these things, yet·may he be moved from his incre-
dulity, yielding to such cogent evidences as can be found
with none, but only in the religion of Chrimans auoriling to
the Gospel :t . . .
84. For he mentions, that even womeJl IU'e found among
the mep. of ·whQm we and that many 9f them are
virgins, at an extreme age ; preserving their chastity, not
from necessity, like the sacred virgin8 among the Greeks
but from a voluntary law, from their zeal and desire of
wiSdom; . . . ·
With whom studying to live, they have abjured the
pleasures of the body, no longer desiring a mortal offspring,
but that which is immortal, and which 'tis certain that the
soul·which loves God can alone beget upon itself.
86. From whence proceeding, he deliv_ers ·these tb.inga
still more emphatically : · . · .
• 87. That their expositions of the holy scripture& are,
by an under-senae, delivere!l in allegories ;t
88. For the whole divine revelation, to these men seems
to resemble an .animal, and that the words spoken .are the
body, but the soul is the invisible sense involved in the
·words : which it is their religion itsel' which first
to exhibit distinctively, as in a glass, putting the beaut1ful
results of the things understood .under the indecencies of
the names.
89. What need is there to add to theee things, their
meetings together, and their residenoes,-the men in one
place, and the women in another ? · ·
40. And the exercises aecording to the custom this day
continued among us, and which, especially upon the
festival of our Saviour's passion, we been aooue-
• Nota baa. . t Neca beot.
*"Whioll thillp are a alleprf."-Gal. iT. M.
Dig•tizcd by Google
CBBIITU.I' SCBIPTUUS 4NTEBIOR TO CBIUST. 'J$
tomed to observe, in fastings, in watchings, and in study·
ing the divine discourses ?
41. And which are kept to this day in the same manner
01ly among tu : as the same author hath shown most mani-
festly, and delivered in his own writing ;
42. And especially relating the vigils of the great fes-
tival, and the exercises in them, and their hymns, which
are· the "MY at those ll8ed to be said among us ;
48; .Artd how, as one of them sang the psalm in a pleas-
, i:ng voice ; the others leisurely listening, took up the laet
stanza of the hymns; and how, on the afore-named days,
lying on beds of straw upon the ·ground, they would taste
no wine at all ?
44. As he has in so many words written. No_r would
, tTley eat any thing that had blood in it ;• that water only
is their drink ; and hyssop, bread, and salt, their food.
45. In addition t6 these circumstances, he describes the
ordm of preferment among those of them who aspire to
ecclesiastical ministrations,-the offices of the deacons, the
humbler rank, and the supreme authority of their bishops.t
46. Whoever wishes a clear understanding of these mat·
ters, may acquire it from the afore-mentioned work of this
author. " But that Philo wrote these things with refer-
ence to those who were the first preachers of the discipline
which is acx10rding to the Gospel, and to the manners first
handed down from the Apostles, must be manifest to every
man.'1 .
·This conclusion on the whole matter is so etrong, that
though I am confident a more faithful translation of the
whole cannot be made by any man, I recommend a refer-
ence to the original, the scholar may see at once that
I have taken no liberty with my author ; and have no
occasion to conciliate his favour; or to deprecate his criti-
eism. I offer hhri my own translation, not on the score of
itsbeing mine, but' on the score of its being as good as the
that could possibly be made, and better than any that
18 not the best. ·
I , ,
• For it -.d aood to the Holl Ghollt, ucl to •• to lay upon you DO
....bartbell than tli.e n8ceesary tbiDp : that ye abltain ftom aMata ofFered to
i6B, ud hm blood, ud from tlliqa .tl'llnllllll, anll ftom • • • • • • • ; to.
1lbich itye keep youl'llelvee, ye aballlo weii."-Actll xv. 29.
' " For thotw that have 1lll8d the offioe or a deileOil -u, pucbue to
•Foci Tim. iii. 13.
*qr, 61 n, 1Ccr1'CI. TO tvcayya1&09 I&IC1<11fcal1Cif, TCI Tl elf!
,..,. o 4>&1w ncarn ,..
"'".-lbicl. .
8 .
. .
14 PHILO.
CHAPTER IX.
OF PHILO .A.ND Hll TEITIIIONY.
OF Philo, or as he is commonly called, Philo-Judmus-
Philo the Jew ; whom Eusebiwi.thwi largely quotes ; it
becomes of supreme importance.that we should be able to
asceri.ain the age in which he wrote, and who and what he
was ;·since his treatise on "tht Cotttemplate life," or Monk.:
ery, is a demonstration, than which history could not pos-
sibly have a stronger, that the monastic institution was in·
full reign at and before his time.
Philo-Judmus was a nativ.e. of Alexandria, of a priest's
family, and brother to the Alabarch, or chief Jewish mag-
istrate in that city. He was sent at the head em-
bassy,from the Egyptian Jews, to the Emperor Caius Cal-
Wula, .&.. o. 89, and has left an interestingrecital of it, usu-
ally printed in Josephus. He also wrote defence of the
Jews against Flaccus, then President of Egypt ; yet ex-
tant. He was eminently versed in the Pl.atonic phil08Qoo
phy, of which both his style and his opinions partake.-
His works oon&ist chiefty of allegorical expositions of the
Old Testament. . .
Eusebius his time in the reign of Caia Claudius,
the immediate successor of the Empero;r Tiberiue, and
says of him, that he was a man not only superior to the
moet ofour oum religion, but by far the most renowned or
all the followers of profane knowledge :• and that he was
by lineal descent a Hebrew, and not inferior to any in
rank at Alexandria ; but by following the platonic and Py-
thagOrean philosophy, he surpassed all the learned men or
his time. .·
Eusebius is anxious to have it believed, that·Philo was
in suoh sense "Otit-. of w," as to have been to all intents
and purposes a Christian : and intimates that " it was re-
ported that Philo had met and conversed with St. Peter,·
at Rome, in the teign of Claudius."t
But alas, Philo has been insensible, or ungrateful, for
the honours with whioh he was so distinguished, and
. • cbc1... 7r111CI'rotf ilr!ff e T- I. ...... - qi
oq,..,.,...,,.,I,Uif, 11ftC1yOTGTfe.-Eec. Hilt. Jib. !, C. 4.
t Or ••n 1oyor 'X" '"' Tiff P"'''lf "' fll'&1acw elh•• lr.t'fe
-ren •ftiiTTer-ra, .., •• .,,.••, .,. "' -re-roye.-Lib. J o. 11. .·
Dig,tizcd by Google
I .
'71
be bas ·so accurately det!Oribed the ditcipline of a
community, of which be was himaelf a member :
I. Having parishes, 2. CbUJ."Ches, 3. Bishops, prieeta,
and deacons ; 4. Observing the,grand festivals of Chrie-
tianity ; 5. Pretending to have had apo«olk founders ;
G. Practising the very manners that dietinguiehed the
immediate apostles of Christ; 7. Using scriptures· which
they believed to be divinely inspired, 8. And whicla
Eusebius himself believed to be none other than the sub-
stance of our gospels; 9. And the selfi8Dle allegorical
method of those scriptures, which has since
obtained among Christians; 10. And the eeJ.faame manner
and order of performing public worship ; 11. And having
llliMionary stations oree>lonies--of their oommunity eatab-
lished in Corinth, Galatia, Ephesus, Philippi,
ColOSBe, and Thessaloniba ; precisely nch, and in euch
circumstances, as those addreeeed by St. PauJ, in bia
respective epistles to the Romans, Corinthians, Galatiane,
Ephesians, Pbilippi8118, Colossians, and Thessalonians ;
and 12. Answering to every circumstance described of the
state and discipline of the first community of Christiana,
to the "et'Y lttttr ; 13. And all this, as nothing new in
Philo's time, but of thm long-established notoriety and
venerable antiquity : yet Philo, who wrote before Jose-
phus, and gave this particular description of Egyptian
monkery, when Jesus Christ, if such a person had ever
existed, was oot above ten years of and at least fifty
years, before the existence of any Christian writing what-
ever, has never once thrown out the remotest hint, that he
had ever heard of the existence of Chri!Jl, of Christianity,
or of Christiana•.
.......
CHAPTER X.
COROLLARIES.
I. Saottr.D it tu'm out, that the text of Philo, as it may
have come down to our times, presents material dis-
crepancies from the report which Eusebius has here made
of it ; that discovery would. bring no relief to the cogency
of the demonstration resulting from Euaebius's testimony
merely ; becautle it is with Euaebius alone, that we are in
this investigation concerned ; and,
Dig,tizcd by Google
'r8
J. Because Christianity 'would be but little the gab;ter
byonrthrowingthe credebilityofEusebius in this instance,
at so dear an expence, as the necessary destruction of his
oredibility in all otl).ers• · If we are not to give Euaebiua
credit for ability and integrity, to make a fair and accurate
quotation, upon a matter that could have no room for mis-
take, or excuse for ignorance ; if on such a matter he
would knowinglyand wilfully deceiveus; and thevariations
of the text of Philo, from the quotations he has given us,
be held a sufficient demonstration that he has· done so :
·there remains no alternative, but that his testimony must
lose its claim on our confidence, in.all other cases what-
ever : with .the credit of Eusebius must go, all that
Eusebius's authority upheld, and 41le three first agee of
Christianity, will remain without an historian, or but 88
" A1ale,
·Told by u idiot, full of IOIIIId IIIII f'arJ•
Sipifyipc nothiuc."
But the evidences of the Christian religion are not yet in
thia distress. . ·
The testimony of Eusebius on this subject, is neither
more nor less valid, for any confirmation or impeachment
it might receive, from any extant copies of the writings of
Philo.
8. Because, nothing is more likely, than that the text of
Philo, might have been altered purposely to- produce such
an appearance of discrepancy, and so to supply to
tians, (what 'tis known they would stop at no means to
come by,) a caveat and evitation of the most unguarded
and portentous •gitting-of-tonp, that ever feU froin .so
shrewd and able an historian ; and, ·
4. Because, nothing is more certain, than that Bo
writings have ever been .safe from such interpolations ;
the text of the New Testament itself, at this day, pre-
senting us with innumerable texts, which were not con-
tained in its earlier copies, and being found ·deficient of
many texts that were in those copies.• ·
5. We have certainly Euaebius's testimony in this
chapter, and in such a state as that it may be depended
on, as being 6ona fide lt.il testimony,. really and fairly 1
exhibiting to us, what his view and judgment of Chria-
tianity was, or-(the Christian is welcome to the alter-·
native!) · .
• Bee Chapter 18.
I
Digitized by Google j
COROLLARI£1, "1'1
, 8. And Eusebiua's testimony is valid to the full effect
for which we claim it, and that· is, to the proof of what the
origin of the Christian scriptures was, AI IT APPEARED TO
Rill•
.'7. And the validity of his testimony cannot be im-
peached in this particular instance, without overthrowing
the authority of evidence altogether, opening the door to
everlasting quibbling, turning history into romance, and
makirw the admission of facts to depend on the caprice or
prejudice of a party.• ·
8. And if what Eusebius has delivered in this chapter,
cannot be reconciled to what he may eeem to have de-
livered in other parts of his writings, it will be for those
who refuse to receive his testimony, here, to show how, or
where he ever hath, or could have, delivered a contrary
testimony more' explicitly, intelligibly, and positively, than
he has this.
9. Nor can they claim from us, that we should respect
his testimony in any other ca8e, when they themselves
refuse to.respect it, where it stands in confiict with their
own foregone conclusion.
10. And if, what he may any where else have said, be
found utterly irreeoncileable with what he hath here
delivered, so as to convict him of being an author who
eared not what he said; the Christian again is welcome to
on which . his own argument will drive
him, '· e. the total destruct1on of all evidence that rests on
the veracity of Eusebius.
11. And if Eusebius be not competentteetimonyto what
Christianity was in hu day, m. it apptortd to him ; we hold
ounelves in readiness to receive and respect anl other
testimony of the same age, which those who shall bring
it forward, shall be able to show to be superior to that of
Eueebius.
1.2. But the conflict itself, which this most important
has excited in the learned world, has thoroughly
winnowed it from .all the chaff of sophistication, and in
,the admissions of those who have contended most stre-
nuously its pregnant consequences ; we possess the
ltlongest species of evidence of which any historical doo-.
11Inent whatever, is capable.
• In 11.8 CoroDariee,·be it obaerved, we napeet the Wide diltinedoa betweeD
Mlleltimony to ; in which he 1J181.ks aa a divine, fiom whom tbelerore
tnlh is not to be too rigidly upected ; aod hit teltimony • aD hittoriaD, fiom
.IllDOthinc btd tnth it to be eadared.
. s•
I h5fti
Dig,tizcd by Google
COBOLL.A.IUJt..
U. The learned Basnage• has· been at the paine of ex·
·amining with the most critical accuracy, t}le curious trea·
tise of Philo, on which our Eusebius builds his argument,
that the ancient sect of the were really
Christians so many centuries before .Christ, and were
actually in possession of those very writings which have
become our gospels and epistles.
14. Gibbon, with that matchless power of sarC88Jil,
which, in so little said, conveys so much intended, and
which carries instruction and conviction the mind, by
making what i8 said, k.ilock .at t.he door to ask admission ,
for what is not said,t signifiC8.ntly tells us that, " by prov-
ing that this treatise of Philo was composed as early as
the time of Augustus, Basnage has demonstrated, in
of Eurebiw, and a crowd of moderri ·Catholics, that the
::::::- Therapeutre were neither Christians nor monks. It still
remains probable, (adds the historian), that they changed
their name, preserved their manners, adopted some new
articles of faith, and gradually became the fathers of the
Egyptian: Ascetics."-Decline and Fall oftht RomaB E•pire, •
chap. 15, -note. .
15. Under the overt sense of this important criticiam,
the sagacious historian protects his call on our observance
of the monstrous absurdity of a modern theolo,pan at·
tempting to demonstrate what primitive Christiamty was,
• spite of the only authority from which our knowledge 1
of primitive Christianity ean be derived, and $allenging
our surrender to h.i8 peculiar view of the subject, in pre-
ference to the conclusions of a crowd of modern Catholics,
who are certainly as likely to know, and as able to judge,
as himself. .
· 16. Nor are we to oyerlook the palpable inference, that
a demonstration that this treatise of Philo was written aa 1
early as the time of Augustus ; so far from demonstrating 1
the conclusion which the demonstrator aims to establish,
demonstrates all the prexnh!les and grounds of the very
opposite . . 1
•llaamlge, Histoire des Juifa. L 2,. e. 20, et •tq. · . . .
t Could any jibe be keener than his remark on the eonvenieoee ofthe tim& Sur!
on by divine providence; fOr the introduction ofChri&tianity; wben thePagu...
Joaopben, and the Pagane were become quite indift'ereot to the olil f..-
of idolatry :-" Some deities. of a more recent and fuhiooable cut, 10011
have OCCilpied the d-.ted temples of Jupiter and Apolle, if in the deeilllve mo-
m.t, tbe wiadom of provMieoce had not mterpoeed a genuine revelation."-Chip.,
10. How hooellt mlllltthe Pagan prieeas have been', .to have owaed that tlaeir rtf•
-.aio111 were not genaine ! .
ig•tizcd by Google
coaou..AaJEs. '79
17. The apology for this dilemma, so 88l'castically sug-
gested by ·Gibbon, that " it is probable that these Thera- ·
peutm changed their name," conveys the real truth of the.
matter, in the equally suggested probability, that .their
name was changed for them. It was not tltt.y who embraced
Christianity, but Christianity that embraced them. .
18. We know that those most admired compositions of
Shakspeare and Otway, the "Hamlet" and " Venioe
Preserved," as now presented to the public, Ql'e but little
like the first dra\tghts of them, as they fell from the pen of
those great author8 ; yet no one doubts their .proper
origination, nor thinks of ascribing the merit of them to
any other than those authors, though they be re-edited
with thousands of various readings, and we are now
content to recognise as the .best copies, the " Hamlet"
GWWding to Malone or Garrick, and the " Venice Pre-
served" aecording to Colley Cibber.
19. Considering the . remote antiquity in which all
evidence on the subject must necessarily be obscured. So
pOsitive and distinct an avowal as this, of the very highest
authority that could possibly be, or be pretended, that the
gospels and epistles of the New Testament, constituted
the sacred writings of the. ancient sect of the Therapeutm,
·before the era which modern Christians have unluckily
usigned as that of the birth of Christ ; supported as that
avowal is, by internal evidence and demonstrations of
thQfle scriptures themselves, even in the state in whieh
they have come down to us, and explaining.and account·
ing as ·that avowal does, for all the circumstances and
phmnomena that· have attended those scriptures, which
no other hypothesis can explain or aeoount for, without
calling in the desperate madness of supposing the ope-
ration of supernatural causes :-we hold ourselves to
have presented a demonstration of cel'ta:inty, than Which
history hath nothing more certain-that the writings con-
tained in the New Testament, are hereby clearly traced
up to the Therapeutan monks before the Augustan age ;
and that no ancient, or equally ancient work, was ever by
more satisfactory evidence, shown to have been the com-
position ofthe author to whom it has been ascribed, than
that by which the writings of the New Testament are
proved to have been the works of those monks.
to. To be sure they have been re-edited from time to
time, and all convenient alterations and substitutions
upon them, " to accommolatt thtm to tht faith of tht
Dig,tizcd by Google
COilOLURIES.
orllaodolr."• Some entire scenes of the drama have been
rejected, and some suggested emendations of early critics
have been adopted "into the text ; the names of Pontius
Pilate, Herod, Archelaus, Caiaphas, ·&c; picked .of
Josephus's and other histories, have been substituted in
the place of .the original dramatis penOM : and since it
has been found expedient to conceal the plagiarism, to
pretend a later date, and. a wholly different origination,
have been directly. the known
sentunent8 and opimons of the ongmal authors : by an
exquisite shu,file of ecclesiastical management, what was
really the origination of Christianity, has been·represented
as a corruptiDR of it. The·epocha and reign of :mOnkish
iofluence and monkish .principles, has been wilfully mis-
dated ; those·who are known, and demonstnted by the .
clearest evidence of independent history, 'to have existed
for ages before the Christian era, are represented to have
sprung up, in the second, third, or fourth century ofthat
era ; and in spite of the .!!!till remaining awkwardness and'
hideousness of the dilemma, that so· pure and holy a
religion, should ®me so soon to have been so univel'l!ally
misUildemciod ; the monks who originated, are branded
as the monks who corrupted ; the maken..for the marrers
and it has remained for Protetttant illumination, after
sixteen hundred years of dark ages, to discover eYAlenee
that the observance of the very aqthorities from
which it'ts derived, and to show us divine inspiration, and
more than means for the exaltation and improve·
ment of the human character, in the hands of monks and
solitaires, eremites and ·friars. •
· !1. We have here the clearest and most complete
eolution of the difficulty that seems to have so much per-
plexed the faith of the Unitarian Christian, Evanson, in
his of 1M .libur Go.ptla ;t namely-that though
• See Haniftlto ol the Cbristian Evidence Society. ·
t 'l'hil very inpliou8 aDd work, as publillbed by one who wu a
preacher iD the Unitarian coiiiUidion, aDd who profllllel hu-If' to be a Uciple
or J- Cbrilc, • added to the DUUIT iastancGII we meet with, or the
correet aDd even powerful acting or the mind, 10 moat able criticillm, iD deep re-
.ucb, aDd ebrewd di.acemment, while yet Jabourin& UDder an with
NlptCt to .o.me perticular modificatioDI or thought, .0 egrepue as to betray itaeJl
-to the.Ob.erYJUII'.O ol • child. .Mr. EvaiiiiOD rejeeted the lllauhew,
Hark, and John, and very maoy pan. or SL Luke ; he rejected the Epistle.
to the Romaos, to the Ephlllianl, to the Philippi..., to Titu, and the Hebrew.,
the two Epiltlee or Peter, the three orJohD, aod.the eaeb or which I
he. CODvicta Of evideftt in&erpolatiOD, aDd llti'Oill muka or roiJV1 i yet, he
believed iD the .-nection ol Christ, aDd " in all the obvioUB aDd simple,
bat important trutlu, orthe D- COYeDaot ofthe 1011*,"-Pap 289, (the llllt.)
Dig,tizcd by Google
.COROLLARIEI.
they are to be received as the OOD.lpoeition of Jews, ootem.
porariee, and eyen witnesses of the scenes and actions
they.desoribe ; those compositions do nevertheless betray
so a degree of ignorance of the geography, statistics;
and ctrcnmstanoes of Judea at the time supposed, as to
put it beyond all that the writers were neither
witnesses nor cotemporaries-neither Jews, nor at any
time inhabitants of Judea. This, the learned. Dr. Bret-
achneider* has demonstrated with respect to St. John in
partioular, most convincingly, in his admirable work,
modestly entitled, Probabilia tk Eoangelii Johannis indok et
origint ; in which he points out such mistakes a.nd errore
of tb.e chronology, history, and statistics of
Judea, as no person who had ever resided in that country, .
or had by birth a Jew, could possibly have com-
Ettoo. · -
22. The Therapeutm, we see, though not Jews, nor
inhabitants of Palestine, were, says Eusebius, "it is likely,
Hebre.s, and therefore were wont to observe
very many of the customs of the ancients, after a more
Jewish .fashion." Now, as ·those customs of tltt
could have been none other than ancient PagaA customs,
their hereditary respect for every thing Jewish, accounts
for their observing those ancient customs " after a more
.TtwUk fashion," and for the Jewish complexion which the·
ancient Oriental or Grecian mythology would be made to ,
wear, after passing through their hands.
28. This ae«.lOunt of the matter is the more confirmed,
from the entirely incidental and undesigned character of
the admission, as it appears in Eusebius, who lets it fall,
without the least observance of the argument with which
it teems, and without any intention of subserving the uses
that that argument will supply; and still further, by the
known character of the·. Jews themselves, who have in-
troduced the stories of the Pagan·heroes, disguised in a
Jewish garb, into their Old Testament, turning JpthigeAta
into Jeptba's daughter, Hercules into Sampson, Deucalion
into Noah, and Arion on the dolphiil's back, into Jonah in
the whale's belly ; &c. &c.
"The extensive commerce of Alexandria, (says
• work bu been BDIW&red, but V&rJ ridiculoliBiy, by the learned
)lnlfeBIOr STEIN, of Bl'lllldenburgh, ia a work entitled,
lolaa,.,U, Pindleata, in which Stein throWI himaelf on the unamwerable arp-
--, of hrlinc felt tba1 plp8180 pllrticalady comfortable to his 10ul ; u a proof
afilllp•ineoeea . .
•
8! COROLLARII:I.
Gibbon,) and its proxilnity to Palestine, gave'an ea&J
entrance to the new religion. It was, a4 • embraced
by great numbers of the Therapeutte, or Essenians, of the
lake Mareotis, a Jewish sect which had ab.ated much of
its reverence for the Mosaic The austere
life of the Essenians, their feasts· and excommunications,
the community of goods, their love of celibacy, their zeal
for martyrdom, and the warmth, though not the purity of
their faith, ALREADY pffered a very lively_ image of the
primitive discipline. It was in the school of Alexandria,
that the Christian theology appears to·have assumed .a
regular and scientifical form ; p.nd when Hadrian visited.
_
Egypt, he found a church composed of Jews and Greeks, '
BUfficiently important to attract the nouce of that inqui-
sitive prince."--Gibbon, chap. 15. - ·
The progress of Christianity was for a long time con- ·
fined within the limits of this single city (of Alexandria) ;
and so slow was the progress of this religion, that not-
withstanding the ftourishes and hyperbolical
exaggerations of the Fathers, ." we are possessed of an
authentic record, which attests the state of religion in
the firet and most populous city of the then known world.
In Rome._:_.about the middle of the third century, and after
a peace of thirty-eight years ; the clergy consisted but of
one bishop, presbyters, fourtun deacons, forty-lwo
aoolythu, and ifty readet'S, exorcists and._ rters. We
may venture, concludes the great historianfto estimate
the Christian&' at Rome, at about fifty tl&ouaGnd, when the
total number of inhabitants cannot be taken at less than·
a milliofi ; and of the whole Roman · Empire, the most
favourable calculation that can be deduced from the
examples of Antioch and of Rome, will not permit us to
imagine that more tha11 a twentieth part of tb.e subjects of
the Empire had enlisted themsetves under the banner of
the cross, before the important conversion of the Emperor
Constantine."-Ibid. ·
25. It should never be forgotten, that miraculously
rapid as we are sometimes told the propagation of the
gospel was, it was first preached in EnJriand by·Austin,
the monk, under commission from Pope <lregory, towards
the end of the seventh century. So that the good mw• of
salvation, in travelling from the supposed scene of action
Dig,tizcd by Google
COROLL.\BlEI. 8S
to this favoured country, may be as having.
posted at the rate of almost an inch in a fortnight. .
!6. This however, when compared with the rate at whtch
the evidence of any beneficial effects of the religion upon
the morals of its professors hath advanced, may be ad-
mitted to be surprising velocity ; for certain it is, that not
the most distant he!lrsay of such effects, had reached the
Court of King's Bench, Westminster, so late as the 7th of
February, 1828. · .
!7. Here then have we, in the citiee of Egypt, and in
the deserts of Thebais, the whole already established
system of ecclesiastical polity, its hierarchy of bishops,
its subordinate clergy, the selfeame sacred scriptures, the
selfsame allegorical method of those ecrip-
tures, so convenient to admit of the ev88lon or amend-
ment from time to time, of any defecte that criticism
discover in them ; the same doctrines, rites, ceremorues,
festivals, discipline, pealms, repeated in alternate verses
by the minister and the congregation, epistles ,md gospels
-in a word, the -and every iota of Christianity,
previously existing from ·time immemorial, and certainly
I known to have been in and as euch, recorded
and detailed by an hietorian of unquestioned veracity, .
living and writing at least fifty years before the earliest
that Chrietian have 88$igned to any Chris-
tian document whatever. .·
!8. Here we eee the thin veil that would hide
the truth from our eyee, m the admieeione that Chrietians .
have been conetrained to make, that the Therapeutm were
certainly thefirn converts to the faith of Chriet ; and th11t
the many circunietancee of doctrine and diecipline, that
they had in common with the Chrietiane, had previoualy
· prepared . and predisposed them · to receive the gospel._
We find that the faith of Christ actually originated with
them, ·that they were 1n previous poseession, and that
those who, by a chronological error, or wilful misrepre-
sentation, are called the firet Christians, were not the
of the Therapeutm, but were themeelvee their
converts. ,
!9. This aceounte for a phenomenon that every where
meets ue, and which were otherwise utterly unaccount-
able ; that the religion of one who had expreesly ad-
monished his dieciplee, that hie kingdom, was not of this
world, and which purports to have been firet preached by
UDambitioua and illiterate fishermen, ·should in the verr
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
first and earliest documents of it that ean be produced,
present us with all the full ripe arrogance of an already
established hierarchy ; bishops disputing for their pre-
rogatives, and throne-enseated prelates demanding and
receiving- more than the honours of temporal sovereignty,
from their vassals, and',denouncing worse
inflictions of temporal punishment against the heretics
who should presume to resist their decrees, or ilispute
their authority. •
80. We find the episcopal form of government, even
before the end of the first century; fully established ; and
if not the very Galilean fishermen themsel\"es, a.t lea.st
those who are called the apo818lic fathen, and who are
supposed to have received their authority and doctrine
immediately from them, eStablished in all the pride, pomp,
and magnificence of sovereign pontiffs, and lords of the
lives and fortunes,• as well as of 'the faith of their ftoeks ;
and every where inculcating, as the first axiom of all
morality and'virtue, that there was no sin so as that
of resistance to the authority; of a bishop.
81. " Since the time of Tertullian and Ireneus, it has
been a fact, as well as a maxim, .Mdla eccluia rint e]Mcopo
-no church without a bishop."__,Gibbon.
82. We. find Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch, even while
the Apostles, or John, at least, is supposed to have been
living, venturing to stake his soul fpr theirs, and himself
expiatory offering, for those who should obey their !
bl8hop ; and, . .
88. Dionysius, Bishop of Alexandria the very seat and
.centre of the 'fherapeutan doctrine, in his epistles to
Novatius, maintains that schismatics, or those who should
to follow .any opinions unsanctioned ·by the
b1shop, were " renegadoes, apostates, par-
ricides, anti-christs, blasphemers, the devil's priests,
villaip.ous, and perfidious, were without hope, had no right
to the promis,es, could not be saved, were,· no more Chris·
tians than the devil, could not go to heaven,· the hottest
patt of hell their portion, their preaching poisonous,
their baptism pestiferous, their persons accursed, &c.
• St. Peter pat ADaDiM aud Sapphira to death, for ·DOt pYillf IWa all die
mooey be waoted.-Acta v. St. Paid onlerecl the Corinthian " to be delinrod to
Satan (or the deltraction or bil 8t!lb, (or bam, O'tWioobd the nl• of tile
Tberapeutao ooU.e•.in a love aftllir...-1 Coiladi: "· · Thepo- al tile eJ.nlla
oollld Dever bavebeta r.D7 eeublillled lblll wt.. IICb ......... iljlldle
wu abon all relpOIIIibilU)'. ·
Dig•tizcd by Google
COBOLLABII:I•
..
&c., and much to the same heavenly-tempered
purport.,. .
. 34. Such a state of things, suC{h sentiments and lan-
guage, and the like thereof, invariably· found as it is in
the very earliest documents. of Christianity that can be
adduced, and attested by the corroboration of independent.
historical evidence, is utterly incongruous, wholly irre-
concileable and out of keepjng with any possibility of the
existence of the circumstances under which tJle Christian
revelation is generally supposed to have made its appear-
ance on earth..
85. _
But it is in perfect probability and in entire coin-
cidence with all the circumstances discovered to us by
this wonderful passage of Eusebius, from whom we learn
that the Evangelist, St. Mark, was believed to have been
the first who extended his travels into Egypt, and became
the founder of this same Therapeutan church, in the city of
Alexandria, by preaching in the'first instance to them, the
gospel ·which has come down to us 'Q.Ilder his name·.t
86. Even the necessary decency of supposing that at
least one of the Evangelists should have written a gospel
in the language of his own country, has been up,
with the pitiful apology, that the invincible unbelief of the
Hebrew nation, rendered the which St. Matthew
taay be BtJpptnt.d to have w.tj.tten m Hebrew, not worth pre-
serving. So that oo gospel', in the language of the country
• Quoted in .the Priueiplee of the Cypriaoic Ar· p. 19. A Yery rare ....
cwio111 work (by J. S. that is, Jobn Sage, a Seottillh biebo_p, 1696,) preeene4 ill
8"10n College from wbenee lent to my-· by the Rev. Dr. Gaskin, Secre-
tary ofthe Society for Promoting Cbriltian Knowledge. .
t But what ifMarlr. bimeetr; u wen u his colleapes, were_
reallyno Jewaat all,
IM!t native Ecptians, and biebope of thil pre-e:A.tmt Tbei'apeutan cburob ; the
words of E-billll may present a dift"enmt I8D8e to the eye of faith; they admit of
DO other rational undentanding.
Ttncw Jo P,"'flNOr :7l'l,l011'0• .,CUJ<tl 1:7l'< 'I''Jf Cl<ftnn11 cnoalCip.ltlor TO tv"')'y...Uor 0 1'1 ••i
11111A'Jf1<a, Ti :7l'(>-CW on' f111(J'J''Jf11U1-'cu,
"'flCCT""' avto-'• no1ncnowcn"aw n.l¢11' '1'8 ""' Y'"'"'"""'••'"(>"'"If
-·flo.l•l' avr•«n'J J• aa>e'Jf11GI' IJ>l.l011of07TCI'I'II' .,.. 11fOOe<n"<rf'l', a1' Yl.'"''l'
tnn'' Ta' "•CITI.'•fla,, ""' -ra, avr'J.lwu, TCI -ra f11J1':7l'Of1<a ""' TaiJCitl T'J" alltp
'le ,u.ay"'f''" nr <
p•.towa4 e. "Bvt thii.Marlc, thty eay, first betoolc lillt-
aelf into Egypt, anti preaclwJ. the goapel, that tDAich he alao tDrote, arul
Jnt e1tablilhed lhe churclau of .dlezandrie1 ; and wch a multitude, botA
o/ mmraftd tDomen, toere upcm Ail fir•t attempt, on aecotmt of
,. .wre pAilotopAicol an& Ievere IUcetirimt, tlaat Pltilo lulll it tDortlJJ te
_,., to t11ritiRg em. qf tlleir ezercilu a.•emllliu, their
-..all, and their tDhole dileipline oflih." Sach il tbe whole of tbe Utb
cllapter vt die 8llCODd book of E-billl'• EceJeeiastical HWory, dillcoveriu< to ••
die 110w demollltnlted and indillpatable .fact, that monkery or wu the
'- Ull _,.._ type or CllriltiaiUty ; that il8 fil'lt preacbem were IDCIIIkll ; and
tbJt •tenly ·the cloctrinea, bat tlw tbe which contain them; .were alfe&!ly
ata11t in the world, many yean before ibe-epocba .-iped to tbe biltb of <."briit.
9
Dig,tizcd by Google
86 CORROBQRATION8.
in which its stupendous are said to have happened,
can be shown tQ have been ever in existence. ·
We should naturally think, that any thing rather than an
account of events that had really happened, must have
beenintended by English authors, who chose to :write the
history of England, in any other language than English.
But the conduct of the Evangelists is still more unaccount-
able, irt that they must have gone so much out of their
way, to deprive their countryme.n of the knowledge of
salvation, to write in a language, that 'tis certain they
could never have understood themselves, without divine
inspiration.· Are to suppose that persons oftheir mean
and humble rank, in tbe most ·barbarous province qf the
Roman Empire, were better than of the
same calling this day in any·country in Christendom,
and that the fishermen of the.Gal,ilean.lake, could handle
the pen of the ready writer,in an ages bef9'"e the age,
.in which, as yet, even prelates, priests, and prmces, were
marksmen., and comprehended their whole extent of litera-
ture, in the sign Qf the X. . . .
_.._.
CHAPTER XI.
COJlROBORATIOlU OJ' TilE EVIDEI'CE -41U81NG FJlOII TB&.
ADMIS810N8 OJ'· EUililBI-118, IN. Til& KEW TE8TAJI£NT.
ITSELF.
IN order to.enable the reader see and apply the force
of these admissions and their. corollaries, and for the
innumerable necessities of ,reference throughout this
DIEGESIS, l have presented him with the best account of
the times and places usually assigned as those of the first
publication of the several books of the New
on the very highest authority that Christians themselves
ca1,1 affect to refer to on this.subject, which he will find in
the chapter of.Tables. ·
.1. Vpon to this, it will be seen, the high-
est authorities. admit, that all of the epistles were written
some considerable time befor'e any of the four gospels ;
and as a necessary consequence it follows, that they must
been written at a still more considerable length of
time, before any one ofthose gospels could have come into
general use and notoriety. . . .
2. Nor must we forget, that from the very nature of
epistolary writing, the info:rmation contained·in letters,
o;g,tized_
bvGoogle.
•OO,JUlOBOaATIOlU. 8'7
that would necessarily be put in the channel of conveyance
to the persons to whom they were addressed, immediately
upon being written, must as necessarily outrun the slow
gradual and uncertain arrival of information conveyed in
general treatises, which were no more one man's busiqess
than another's, and which might remain unknown to the
majority of Christians, even on the very site of theit most
extended publication.
8. Add too, the equally essential calculation of the effect
of distance of places, in those remote ages, when our arta
and means of conveyance were utterly unknown, which
would necessarily render a published narration of events
that had occurred in a distant province, of infinitely
tardier authentication, than any epistles sent by hand, as
those of the New Testament purport to be, and onlr. pass-
ing to and from the comparatively neighbouring c1ties of
Corinth, Ephesus, and
4. Upon the admitltd fact, that the most important of
these epistles, (say, tluJt to the Galatians) was written
eleven or twelve years before the earliest date of any one
of our gospels, we may fairly put in challenge, that tMI,
or any other of the epistles, must have been received,
read, and known, even many years, before the credit of
the gospels was established. ·
5. These admissions seem to have been yielded, with
however ill a grace, by theologians, on account of the
manifestly greater difficulties, that would attend the ad-
mission of the opposite hypothesis ; to wit, that, of the
prior existence and prevalence of the gospels; which would
throw: the language and style of these epistles in
reference to those gospels, sheer out of the latitude of all
possibility of being received aa the compositions of the
cotemporaries of the Evangelists.
6-. Nor is there more than one single passage in the
whole of these .epistles, that so much as appears to con-
flict with this arrangement ; and as that is a verbal coinci-
dence merely, it can hardly be held sufficient to over-
throw the universal consent supported by the ·manifest
aense and character of every other chapter and verse of
those epistles.
That passage is 1 Cor. xi. 24, !5, referring to the insti-
tution of the sacrament, in which the.Apostle says, "I
Jw,e rectit1ed of the Lord that which. also I delWered urato you,
IMt the Lord the night in which h.e tMJI betrayed,
took bread; and when he had gitlen thanka, h.e brake it, and tioid,
Take, eat, tAil il my body, which il broktn for you : tAil do ia
Dig,tizcd by Google
I
88 COitB.OIORA.TIO:KI. •
remembrance of me. .O,fttr tht tamt ' mmaner abo, lat took tAe
eup, 111hen he had supped, saying, This cup is the Nt:uJ TutG-
ment in my blood : tAil do, lU oft lU drink it, in remem-
brance of me. . -
. This passage, indeed, the appearance -
()f being a
direct quotation from the- text of Luke's gospel, .:xxii.
verses 19, 20. " And he took 'bread, and gatJe thanks, and
brake it, and unto tlt.en1, 'TIIjl is my body, 111hich. u
gitJen for you : tAis do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the
cup, after supper, sayipg, This cup is the J+rt:uJ Testament in my
blood, tch.ich is shed for you." . .
If there were- no relieving alternative, but thilt the
former of these passages must be acknowledged to be
a quotation from the latter, as certainly no work could be
quoted before it existed ; the arrangement, which it will
be seen by Dr. Lardner's table, makes the Epistle to have
been written at least six years before the Gospel, is con-
victed of anachronism ; and as far as this e:vidence is con-
-cerned, divines are thrown upon the stakes of all
the difficulties that attend the hypothesis they have been
at such pains to evade. - - . - · -
t. But the evidently mystical sense of the·words them-
selves. , _
2. The distinct declaration of the apostle in this place,
that he had received what' he deliveredfrom tlat Lord ;
8. And in other places (Gal. i. 11), that "t1at go8ptl
Ae preached 111as not after man ; f(YI' he neither receitted it of mmt,
neither 111as he taught'it, but by the refJelatUm ofJesus CArist; 1
4..The most striking resemblance and coincidence of
these words with the formularies and ritual of the Pagan
mysteries of Eleusis ; · -
5. And the adrilission in the preface of Luke's Gospel,
that his work was only a compilation ()f previously'exil'lting
documents, and derived in common with the works which
many had taken in hand before him to copy from the
DrEGEsn,• or original narration preserved in the sacred
archives of the church : · · '
l'Jlese are arguments entirely. sufficient to relieve the
dilemma, and to leave it rather probable'that Luke took his
• Tbe finlt 'nll'll of St.-Luke'• Gorpel, if Golpel-l'8ldenl ooaJcl but ..e what
wu UDder their 11010, would prevent their ever more pretendiug that tbe Goepek
were origiual compoaitioll8. "Fora.mmh IU many had taken in hand to 1et
the DrEGEere in order," which was tbe oriplal Crom ·which the Apoerypbll
G08PI'll were taken, and aftertDard, tbe imJiroved versions ucribed to Mauhew.
Mark, aad Luke, wbicb obtained final approbation, and eo callled not only the
pevious venioas, but tbe Du:GEIIB itlelf, from which they were all takcn>to be '
'
COltROBOaA.TIOlfS.
•
aoeount from the JiQme document which the apostle had pre--
'riously quoted, or even from the text of the apostle himself.
Thus, no exception from the general rule remains ; and
we must admit, with all its consequences, the priQr exist·
ence of these epistolary writings, detailing, as they do, the
history of communities of Christians, and fully established
churches in Rome, Corinth, Galatia, Ephesus, Philippi,
Colosse, and 'fhessalonica, " rooted and grounded in th.
faith.,"-" belotied · of God,"-" calltd of C.h.ri8t Jesus,"-" in
etJCry th.itag enriclted, ift all utterance and all
" cominK behind in no good gift," and having, as the apostle,
in the caee of·the Galatian church, empliatically declares,
so certainly received the only true and authentic Gospel,
that " if eoen th.e apostle h.imMlj, or an angel from heaver&,
IMuld preach any oth.er than that tDh.ich they had recei#ed,
LET HIM BE ACCJURBED." Gal. i. 8.-See of tM
p. 75. . .
6. Here we find the already so fully established,
that there was a sense in which it could be said that it had
been pnaM.ed Uf&to e11ery creatvre under heatlen (Colos. i. 23),
before the date assigned to any one of the gospels that have
oome down to us, before any one of ·the disciples had suf-
fered martyrdom, before any one of them could have com-
pleted his Here we find a spiritual dynasty
established, exercising the most tremendous authority ever
grasped by man, not merely over ihe lives and fortones,
m,inds and .persons, but over the supposed eternal desti-
nies of its enslaved and degraded vassals, and confirmed
by so strong an influence over all their powers o( resistance,
that its haughty possessor could bear them uritness that they
wre ready to pluck their eyes Qt&t, and r:·e th.em to him. Here
we find churches already perfect y grganized " to their
power," yea (and the Apostle boasts); beyond their power,
!o the- pomp and splendour of their IJlinisters,
and beseeching them, urith much entreaty, to take their mo-
ney from them."" (2 Cor. viii. 4).
"1. Here we find the distinct orders of1>ishops and deacons
already reigning in the plenitude of their distinctive autho-
rities; and the bishops, forsooth, the proudest of the proud,
already of such long prescription in their seat of power,
as often to. have abused that power, and to,need admoni-
tions " not IQ be self-willed, not to be given to wine, no itrikers,
• ADd what &Otlll with tbe lltory of tbe Apotltles, meetiDc with llll4lh ill -
• to bave to lay down their lives for their tMtimony l It allOt Ollly no1 ,_,
bwt not coneeinble to bo trae; it 011Wlerocl'• Herod, ud o..U. tbe CIEii I 1
iiBel£ 9• .
afttl ROt giveR to filthy lucre," (Tit. i. 7,) as some of that
right-reverend order must have been proved to be, ere
such admonitions could have been called for ; yet called
for they were, and necessary they had become, as the
teader will see by the table, some eight or ten years before
the date nssigned to the writing of the four Gospels.
" The Essenians, of whom Philo has written the history,
were confessedly Pythagorians, and I think we may see
some traces of these people among the Druids.. They ex-
iste!l before Christianity, and lived in buildings called
monasteria or monasteries, and were called Koinobioi•
or Comobites-. They were of three kinds, some never mar-
ried, others of them did. They are most highly spoken of
by all the authors of antiquity who named them."-
The Celtie Druids, by Godfrey Ktggim, &q.t A. D. 1827, p. 125.
Were there any degree of difficulty in accounting· for
such a scheme of tyrannous and of ob-
taining uribounded power and influence over the subju-
gated reason of mankind, philosophy, that forbids all .sup-
position of supernatural agency, would acknowle(]a>e that
difficulty ; but to any, in accounting for the. rise
and of Christianity"we must, by.a laborious effort
of imagine nature to be the very reverse in
every thing from what we experience it to be ; we must
suppose a man to be at a loss to find his own head ; we
must suppose Infinite Wisdom teaching trickery to a .thief,
and the orchestra of the spheres supplying resin for a
fiddlestick-introducing oqr God not to extricate the mys-
tery of the scene, but to sweep the stage, and grease the
pulleys. ·
----
CHAPTER XII.
llEI'I:RE:NCJ:I TO THE MONKISH OR THEilAPEUT.A.:N DOCTilllfJ:I,
TO :BE TRACED IN THE NEW TEIT.A.ME:NT.
t. " Blt,std are the poor in spirit, for their'a vthe kingdol& of
laeaHR."-Matt. v. 3.
This, the first principle put into the mouth of the Gali-
lean •Thaumaturge, was also the first principle of the
• mj:OIIIIIIOia. A:clll iv. 12. Hr lliiTOI' 117Uirr'll xot-" tAq
AM all thing• meomii'IO#.'' ·
t Hr. Higine'• teltimooy ill the more valuable, u it il that of a wa-
- 1o the coocla.ioDI to which he mamhal. 111 the'way. Hill !!pleGdid work,
iallnctive and iot8l'eltio& u it ill iD the highelt degee, tholich nperllaolllly ortJ».
··dos, ._ delifhd"ally btpiltld the tadiiUD of m&ay of my prilora-Aoun '
, &1
Tbet'apeutm, and as such .had bee,n known and taught for
ages before the time 888igned to the first publication of
the
It is to be found in the previously existing writings of
Menander, in the sentence "" ,."'"tor.7' •• n••·'fT•' Twr· ....-
We ought to consider .the poor as especially. btlo,.ging .to the
gods; and in the ancient Latin .adage, "Bonre mentis
eoror is dl6 mttr ef a good mifld. It
1 is observable, that this Mcnander the comedian, is not
only quoted by name, by the first of the Fathers (not
apostolical), Justin Martyr, in his apology to the Emperor
Adrian, as one oftheauthor,ities with whom the Christians
held so many sentiments in common, but is again plagi-
arised into the text of 1 Cor. xv.
• cyul.... .taxa•-" Evil communications corrupt good man-
ners."
2. " .!lad the di«iplu came ood 8aU URto him, Why tptakut
IAou Ulalo them in parablu ? He atVtDtred and ·said vRto the•,
it is gitlen vftlo you to A:nov tlte myBttriu of the kingdom
of MafJtn, bvt to them it is not given."-Matt. xiii. 10. " lffllo
JOt' it is pn to kftOt6 the mylfl4ry of the kingdtm& of God, bvt
.to them thol are tfttlaout, 4ll thu$ are doM in parablu ;
tl&at .uing, they may .u and not perceive, aftd hearing, llaty may
hear and not tmdtrlttmd."-Mark iv. 11. ·
Surely, here, and in the innumerable p-assages to -the
satne·effeet; the principle of dooeiving the vulgar is
forth in its most disgusting deftmnity. Here the double
and mystical-sense system,·as adopted by the Therapeutm,
is put in full exemplification.
8. " .!lAd there bt eunuclal, 1ilhich hotle made eunvehl
for tM.kifl8dom of heaven's Bake. He tMt is cble to rutivc it,
let him rtetif,e it."...-.Matt. xix. .12. .
Let the l'eader only ask himself the obvious questions,
what eunuchs' could they.be ? Certainly, not followers of
the law of Moses, whioh held a personal defect, however
involuntarily incurred, disqualifying the unfortunate
from ever entering into the congregation of the Lord,
Deut. xxiii. L Nor was a future state of rewards ever
propounded to the selfishness or ambition of the children
of Israel. '.
4. John the .Baptist is described os-a .Morak, residing in
the wilderness, practising all the austerities of the cootetn-
platitle neither eating nor drinking in observance of the
demandsofaature ; "his food was locusts and wild-honey :"
and not only a monk, but a father confessor, since "all
the land of and they of Jerusalem' were all bap-
Dig,tizcd by Google
·REFEREl'fCES.
tized of him, tO'Ilfunng their ma.." ·Here, then, is certainly
an Ascetic-in the strictest circumstances of description,
a .Monkish confessor-the admitted forertl#lmr of Christ, of
whom he is represented as saying, that "Moses and the
prophets were until John the Baptist, but since then the
kingdom of God• was preached." The great absurdity,
however, of representing the sinless Jesus as receiving
baptism of John for the remission of his sins, would have
been evaded, had the compilers of our Gospels stuck to
the text of the Gospel according to the Hebrews, or that
of these Hebrew-descended Therapeuts, which LeMing
and Niemeyerf have so convincingly shown to have been
the original from which their legends are copied, and from
which it appears that Jesus actually refused to be bap-
tized, saying," What sin have I committed, that I should
be baptized by him ?" And how could that horrible spe-
cies of self-martyrdom, greatest evidence of sincerity
in the faith that could be imagined, have been practised
"fur the kingdom ofhtatJtn'ualu," if the kingdom of heaven
had not been propounded to the faith of these visionaries
as the reward of such a sacrifice, l3ufficiently long..before,
and sufficiently notoriously, to be quoted thus as an his-
torical example, by the speaker in the text of Matthew ?
It is evident that the most distinguisheEI. and
learned of all the Christian Fathers, must have read
recommendation ·of this suicidal act in its very
strongest sense, or have found it in some earlier copies of
the Gospel than have oome down .to us, urged in stronger
terms, or his excellent understanding would never have
fallen under lhe horrors of a belief that it was necessary to
imitate the example 'thus commended, and to prepare him-
self for singing in beaTen, by spOiling his voice for preach-
ing upon earth. ·
5. But Matt. rnii. 15, betrays, in the most indisputable
evidence, the previous exiStence and established discipline
of a Christian church, such as that of the Therapeute is
described to have been, from any length of time anterior to
the Christian era.
"Moreover, if thy brother ahall tre3p(UB agaiu tlue, go
tell him hia fauJJ bettt:een thee aDd him alone : if Ae ·aAell
hear thu, thou haat gained thy brother : 16 Bat if Ae tDill nol
laear IMe, then take tMlh thee one or ttDo tl&at ita fAt '
• This pbrue, tlae of Gpd, 8lld all .ita WQ
cblraeteristic of the monkish fraternity of Ec1p$-tbe dyuuty of prielll, u pua-
mout to that ofkiuga.
t Qaeted iD llalllb'allicM.U., 11111-..aer iD tU Dt•a,ar..
Dig,tizcd by Google
Jti:I'EBilNCill,
tnouth of lvJo or tkru fllitml8t8, eeery flltW'Il may be uldblillltd.
17 .Rnd -if ht shall neglect to htar thtm, tell it utlto THE
CHURCH·: but if ke neglect to hear THE CHURcH, let him
lie unto thu an htathtn m&n and a 18 Verily, I BG'!J
unto you, ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in
hea1Hln,"_&c. &c.
If this does not involve all that the unwary admissions
of Eusebius and Epiphanius would. lead us to, even the
previous existence of the whole Christian dynMty in all
.its corruption, or in all its purity, long anterior to any timt ·
when such language could have been u8ed, or the Gospel
which contained such language could have been written ;
if it betray not its to subserve the purposes of eccle-
siastical usurpation ; 1f it savour not of popery in the
rankest tank that ever pope himself was popish ; there
is no skill in criticism to discover any truth below the
surface of expression-no wrong in any· that can
be put off as right-no Rome in Italy-no· day-light in the
sun-shine. ·
6. "&member tke 1DO'rd8 of tht Lord JUUB, lwuJ ke said, It il
ti&Ort bles8td to gi"e than to receitle."-Acts xx. 3!1..
No such words as these are contained in either of our
four Gospels ; they must, therefore have been contained
in some gospel which previously existed, which was known
and established in the esteem of the persons who were
thQS reminded of it; and which therefore ought not to have
been rejected. .
"It is, I think," says Lardner, (volt, p. 71, 4to. edit.)
"a just observation of Dr. Prideaux, that almost all that
is peculiar in this sect, is condemned by Christ and his
apostles." .
But from this admission follows, at any .rate, the cer-
tainty of the previous notoriety of this sect, and of those
tenets which were pecUliar to it.
And if, excepting the " alflloBt all that 1DaB peculia1· to tkil
lUI," which Christ and his apostles condemned, there yet
remained somtlhing which was peculiar to this sect, which
they adopted, what other conclusion can follow, than that
the Christian tenets were but a reformation upon the pre-
existent Essenian principles, and had no claim of them-
selves to a character of originality ? We say, in like
manner, at this day, that our Protestant church condemns
amw.t all tltat is f".Culinr to the church of Rome, while in
that condemnation itself is involved an admission of its
prior.exu;tence, and of its common origin. There can be
o;9
;ized
llEI'EJ.EliCJ:I,
no conceivable_reason why the peouliar tenets of a partj-
eular sect shouJd be singled oqt .for particular condemna·
tion, unless the condemners stood in some more imme-
diate relation, or knew something particularly ofthe
tenets so condemned, than of any other condemnable
tenets. . _ .
The force of so particular a condemnation of alfllOit all
that tDas peculiar, involves as particular a,n and
sanction of whatever it was not mcluded in 80
particular a condemnation. · .
Not to object, that, in ordinary fairness, the gaugingof
the Essenian tenets so as to determine and h01D many
of them, amounted to almost all, should hardly be trusted to
the fidelity of those who have the strongest interest in dis-
paraging and under-rating those ·
Again, the conjoining Christ and his Apostles as concurring
in the condemnation of almost all that was peculiar to this
sect, is assuming a concurrence unsupported by evidence,
and inconsequential in reason.
It by no means follows, that he and they, .in every in·
stance, must have approved and condemned by the same ·
rule ; the need they had of being instructed by him, is 11
reason, and the rebukes they received from him,
is a proof, that their judgments and his might be the reverse
of each other.
Nor is it a just and fair conclusion, that all the apostles
of Christ condemned what it cannot be shown that more
than one of them condemned, and which all the rest may
in all probability have approved.
Nor, if it be Paul alone who hath condemned, is it just
or fair to conclude that even one· of the apostles of Christ
has done so ; since the claim of Paul .to be considered as
one of the apostles ·of Christ, rests on his own presumption
only, and, to say the least against it, is in the highest de-
gree questionable.•
Surely, nothing could be more peculiar to ·any sect, than I
the of making themselves " Eunuchs jOr tht .king-
dom of AetWen'& _
sake ;" and as surely, it is any other sort
of language rather than that of condemnation, in which
Christ is represented as speaking of that peculiarity,
Matt. xix..12.
• He is reeosnized only in the 2d Epistle of Peter, chap. iii. vene U, • a
brother, which itaelf ill no style or clasipation of apottlet1aip, e'fllll iEdll
authenticity of ttu. epistle, in which it is coutained, were inclilpatable, wbicll k
noL--8ee Marth'• Miclaaelil, in luco. ·
aEFEREl'fCEI.
What the other peculiarities of this sect were, may be
collected from the version I have given of the text of
Eusebius on the subject.
Michaelis supplies, from· the further authorities of Philo,
from Josephus, Solinus, and Pliny, that their principles
were generally derived from the Oriental or Gnostic Phi-
losophy, of which they obser\Ted the moral part, while they
rejected all its more absurd and egregious metaphysical
speculations.• They abstained from blood, and would not
even offer a sacrifice, because they regarded the slaying
ofbeasts as sinful. ·
Most of them abstained from marriage, and thought it
an obstacle to the search after wisdom.
The places in which they pursued their meditations,
and which they held sacred, were called l'oranfWca (that is,
MoNASTERIEs) . "AJl ornamental dress they detested."-
.Michaelis, vol. 4, p. 88.
• 7. Whose language, then, but their's, or of the followers
of their sect; oould that be ? ·
" Who.e adorning, kt it not be that Ofltvlanl adtmliAg of
plaiting the hair, and of tllearitag of gold, or of putting on of
apparel," &c.-1 Pet. iii. 8.
"Not fl!ith.hroidfftd hair, or gold, or pearll, or cocly array."
-1 Tim. ii. 9.
" They maintained a perfect community of goods,
and an equality·of external rank, considering vassalage
as a of the laws of nature."-JtlichaelV, vol. 4,
P· 88.
What oould more naturally and directly tend to render
their system acceptable to the poor, and to spread it at any
time among those who had neither honour nor wealth to
lose ? What language could more nearly describe the
primitive condition of the evangelical community as pour-
trayed in Acts iv. 8.2, or more entirely harmonize with
those words ascribed to Christ ?
6. " Ye lr:MrD that the princu of the Gentilu tztrcile dominion
ooer tlum, and they tlu&t are great eurcile authority "PP"
them. Bul 1t M&all not be 10 among you ; but•vhol0et1tr Ulill
be great amottg- yow, kt him be your ministtr.; and r.lwloetlcr
tlliU be chuf amoRg you, kt him be your "-Matt.
xx• .25.
• That ill, "they were the EcLJ:CTIC Phi1010pberl; who rejected the evil, ad
eboee the good, oat of every system of reliJ!on or phiiO!!Ophy that had been }11'0-
pomded to mankiud, aad wbo bad a 1lowilbing anivenlity already eltahlilbed u
Aluandria when ov Saviour- apou euth."-Mo•Aeim.
Dig,tizcd by Google
96
'' Bt not yt calld Rabbi, for one u your .Mtuter, ..
Ohmt, and all ye are brethren. .IJ.nd call no man your faJJaer
upon the earth,, for one is Father which is in heatlen."-
Matt. xx,ili. 9. " They believed the soul wowd live for
ever ; but they seem have denied the resurrection of
the body, which, according to their principles, would only
render the soul sinful, by being re-united with it. They
attributed a natural holiness to the Sabbath-day, because
it is the seventh, and because the number (seven) results
from adding the sides of a square to those of a trlangle-
thus: They spent most of their time in contetnplation,
which they called philosophical, and boasted of a philoso-
phy pretended to be derived from their ancestors: And,
notwithstanding their general profeBBion of the contem-
plati"e life, great .numbers of their sect were established in
populous towns. " Nor is it one city only that they oo-
cupy," says Josephus, "but many dwelt in each city;
and the provider for the faction is especially discernible
among strangers, by his engagement in storing up clothing
and necessary articles :"• from which it should seem they
were the old-clotlw-men of the world, from the remotest
antiquity. . "It is manifest," argues Michaelis,t "that
the Epistle to the Ephesians, that to .the Colossians, and
the Jst to Timothy, were written with a view of confuting
this eect ; for even the veey words which Philo has usea
in describing their tenets, are for the most part retained
by St. Paul. .
9. ".lind a certain Jew, named .IJ.pollos, bom at .IJ.lezatttlrW,
a• eloquem man, and mighty in tl&t Scriptures, came to E_phuvl. '
This man 1Da8 instructed in the way oftM Lord, beiflgftr'HN 1
ifl spirit, he ·spake and taught the of the lArd,
knotoing only the ·baptism o_f Jolm ; atrd he began to·sptak boldlt '
in 1M "!Jff4gOgue ; whom .IJ.quila and Prileilla had ht4rl.
they took him wftto them, arad unto him the way of OJ,
more perfectly."-Acts xviii. 24. ·
Let the reader follow the clue that is here put into ·
in this historical and evidently credible pa:rt of th
real adventures of these scbismatical missionaries froDl
the original EBBeniaa sect. ·Here is Apollo&, of Pag&ll'!
. I
• Mu• flit ee1ru· aUT.,. 'I n-oAc,, 'or eltGIJTijltaTocltllfJc, ..
eltOIITJj Ttl o;cit(>ITat' nor Clrlllr anodecltrtJ:I"G&; -ral''"'- •IJ3>tr•
Jiui.,Jib. 2, e. 4. •
B.t MichaeU., in bit Introclaetion to the New TtllaDieDt, b7 Herbert lluil, -"'
ilbop ofPeterborough, voL 4, p. 84.
Dig•tizcd by c;;oogle
9'1
name; borp in the very metropolis in which the Essenian
sect was of highest repute ; ere any one of the apostles
can be pretended to have preached the Gospel in that
country ; already instructed in the way of the Lord, and
set up as a preacher ofthat "'ay, in Ephesus. And our most
learned critic rather maintains than conceals the incontro-
vertible fae.t, that " the earliest and principal members of
the Christian eonummity were attached to this sect."-
Mieltatlil, vol. 4, p. 88. .
Surely, then, it is only want of moral fortitude, and
an unwillingness to embrace truths contrary to precon-
ooived prejudices, that hinders man from seeing truths
eo evident, ·as tha_
t this Essenian or Therapeutan sect
illlelfwere, as Eusebius has honestly admitted them to be,
Clrittians; that Alexandria, and not Jerusalem, was the
cradle of the infant church ; that their·ancient scriptures
were the first types of the Gospels and Epistles ; that the
naturaland probable parts of the Acts of the Apostles, are
joornals of the real adventures of schismatical mission-
aries from this ancient fraternity of .Monka, who, after
leaving their monasteries ·in the deserts of Thebais, cut
oat to themselves a new path to fame and fortune, by
tluowing off the stricter discipline oftheir mother church,
its less popular doctrines, and retaining what
they chose to retain; in such new-fangled or reformed
guise, as to give them the advantage of laying claim either
to antiquity or originality, as their drift of argument might
require. Like the Protestant rcforme111 in later ages,
theee who were called Chriltiat&s firat at .llnlioth, turned
ftiUDd upon their ecclesiastical snperl0rs, heaped all
-.ner of abuse and misrepresentation upon them and
tWr tenets, and pretended to a purer system of doctrine,
1114even a higher antiquity, than the church from .which
6tysprang. 0 • •
"It is not impossible (though till further proof be
!htD, it cannot be asserted as a fact) that the" JTagabOftd
tDho took upon them ·to call Otltr thtm which
W-.1 'Pirill, the name of tl&e Lord (Acts x.ix.. 18,)
-.. likewise Essenes ; for it is well known that the
'-enee applied themselves to superstitious arts, and
,....ded to have converse with spirits. Some of them
IIW tJaim to the gift of prophecy, of which we find many
Jpsephus ;" and of which we find a_s certainly,
llanar instances of the same claim, advanced by the first
: lleaehera and earliest members of the Christian com·
. 10
Dig,tizcd by Google
98 RJCrJCRUCICI.
munity: eo that the only question on this evidence is,
which party had the juster claim to a faculty, of which
reaeon denies the possibility to either? In a word, we
have only to decide who were the greater-that is, the
more successful impostors.
"Among the first professors of Christianity," says
Mosheim, " there were few men of learning-few who
had capacity enough to insinuate into the minds of a
and ignorant mullittllk, the knowledge of divine things, God,
therefore, in his infinite wisdom, judgedit necessary toraise
up in many churches, extraordinary teachers, who were to
discourse in the public assemblies, upon the various points
of the Christian doctrine, and to treat with the people in
the name of God, as guided by his direction; and clothed
with his authority. Such were the prophets of the New
Testament. They were invested with the power of cen·
suring publicly such as had been guilty of any irregularity;
but to prevent the abuses which designing men might
make of this institution, by pretending to this extraor-
dinary character, in order to execute unworthy ends,
there were always present in the public auditories, judges
DIVINELY APPOINTED, Who, by certain and infallihJe
marks, were able to distinguish the false prophets from
the true. This order of prophets ceased, when the
teachers, which gave rise to it, was abundantly supplied."
-.Mosh.. Eccl. Hiat. vol. I, p. 102.
The Inind smarts for the which the necessity
of maintaining popular delusiOn could impose on so &tel·
ligent and highly-cultivated a scholar, in obliging him to
descend to this language of utter idiotcy,-this reasoning
thatmight disgrace the nursery. Here is infinite wisdom,
to be recourse expedients to its
commurucat10ns mto the Irunds of the groBB and· •imormlf
multitude; .divinely raised-up prophets, clothed with the
authority of God himself; and divinely .appointed jvdgu,
clothed with still higher authority, io judge whether
infinite wisdom was right or wrong, but leaving the p
and ignorant multitude as much in need as ever of I!Oitle
other divinely appointed, still higher judges, to judge
whether the other judges judged fairly; as 'tis certain that
tlae gross and ignorant multitude, for whose benefit the divine
insinuations were intended, were held to be no judges at
all, and God or Devil was all as one to them. How most
a man have looked when lie reasoned thus? But thel
absurdity of this reasoning is not worse than an attempt
• • I
I
to give respectability to the authority which makes it the
best account that can be given of the matter.
10. "HOtD is it," asks the Apostle himself, that "eeery
ou of yo14 hath a _psalm, l&atA a doctrine, . hath a tongut,
AatA a rt11ela#oo 'I (I there come in those that are unlearned, or
tmbtlievers, tDill they not say that yt are mad '1-l Cor. xiv.
. . .
Could language convey clearer evidence, that in the
worst and grossest sense of what Philo or Josephus have
represented the Essenian !}hurches to have been, tliat in
reality the first assemblies. of these primitive christi8JUI
wrt. And this is a state of things described as obtaining,
several years before the writing of any one of our four
Gospels. · ·
If there were really any features of distinctive and
dilferent origination between these long anterior Thera-
peutan societies, and those who, in an after-age, acquired
the name of Christian churches, all traces of that di&-
tinctiveness are lost. To all scope of history, and possi-
bility of understanding, they must be pronounced and
oonsidered tO be, one and the same class and order of
Migious fanatics.
A8 for the pretence to any thing supernatural, phi-
bophy teaches us to view it only as a certain and
incontestible mark of imposture, by whomsoever ad-
Yanced. PROPHECY! the very name of such a thing is a
lllftender of all pretence to evidence ; 'tis the Ian-
of insanity! The fetor of the charnel-house is not
11are charged With its admonition to our bodily health,
to withdraw from the proximities of death, than the
eraeky sound of the thing is, with warning to our reason,
1laat we are 'OUt of the regions of sobriety, wherever it is
•11100h as seriously spoken of : no honest man ever
)l'lltended to
Jl. Matthew (xviii. 18) relates a story of Jesus rebuki:rtg
ainU who kept his hold so obstinately on the body of a
..., that his disciples,\ with all the miraculous powers
willa. which he had previously gifted them, were unable to
-him out ; which Jesus is represented as accounting
fir by saying, ."HOfl1beit this kind gocth not out but by fasting
...fNyer."-Matt. xviii. 21.
we know," says Michaelis, "that the Jews
: almost all diseases to the influence of evil spirits.
' !e cure a disease, therefore, was, according to their
IG&ions, to expel .an evil SP.irit : they pretended to
Dig,tizcd by Google
100
effect by charms and herbs; and we have seen from Euae-
bius, what extraordinary efficacy and virtue the Thera-
peutans ascribed to prayer and fasting." · · .
' 1.2. The whole doctrine of election, which
the epistolary writings of St. Paul, is but an appfication
to the persons whom he addresses, of the notions which
the Jews from previous ages had maintained, whose hopes
of with God were founded on the merits of
their ancestry. We ha"e J.lbraham to oilr father, is repre-
sented as the reaeion they offered, why they had no need
to bring forth fruits meet for repentance. · One of their
principal maxims was, aon o'7 t? pl.n tl"''7 ltl' '7K"'IIt1' 'r.>-that
1s, "All Israel have the portion of eternal life allotted to
them." ·
Another of the Jewish doctrines is, "'God promised
· to Abraham, that if his children were wicked, he would
consider them as righteous on account of the sweet odour
of his circumcised foreskin."•· · ·
The holding out a similar inducement to the seUishnese
and cruelty of the Gentile nations, with reservation of
Jewish prerogative, constituted: all the difference of the
reformed Eueneilm, after it took the name of Christianity•
.18. The allegorical method of expounding their scrip-
tures, so characteristic ofthe Therapentan monks, we find
entirely adopted and avowed by Paul, in his Epistle to
the Galatians, chap. 4. in which, of the most simple and .
obvious apparent facts of the Old Testament, he asaerta,
" tDhkk tkings are an allegory.'' The two sons of Abraham
are to be understood M two covenants ; his kept-mistreu
is a mountain in Arabia ; and, again, the mountain in
Arabia, is the city Jerusalem. ' ·
14. Again, in .2 Cor. iii. 6, the allegorical method, so I
entirely Essenian, is spoken of as the chief design and
intention of the Gospel ministry, and that too, even with I
· respect to the sense of writings which constituted what _
was known and recognized as the NetD Testament, when
this epistle was written, of which, therefore, the four Gos-
pels which have come down to us, could have constituted
. no part; as it will be seen by the .table, that they were
not written till six or seven years after this epistle.
" God also hath. made us able minister1 of tke NetD Testament,
taot o_f tke letter, but of tke spirit, for Ike letter killeth.," &e.·
which principle the Christian FatheM canied to such an
•Pacio F"Jdei. 't'. 8, diL 8, cap. 16, qaoted ill Micbaelie, ,'YOL 4. p. 96.
Dig'"' byGoogle
UI'EBENCBS. 101
extent, that they hesitated not .to admit that the Gospels
themselves were not defensible as truth to their
literal text. " There are things contained therem," says
Odgen,• " which, taken in their literal sense, are mere
falsities and lies." And of the whole divine letter,
St. Gregoryf asserts, that "it is not only but
deadly." And Athanasiust admonishes us, that " should
we understand sacred writ accordiug to the letter, we
should fall into the most enormous blasphemies." ·:
15. Many objectionable tenets of the Essenian sect are
reproved and opposed in passages of Paul's epistles, too
numerous to be .quoted ; but all in the manner and style
of one who had been particularly acquainted with those
tenets, and who adinitted and reQOgnized their affinity
and relation to the Christian doctrines, as much nearer
than any of the errors or absurdities of the other forms of
heathenism.
16. Throughout airthese epistles, we find the Gospel
spoken of by all the varieties of designation that could be
applied to it, as already preached, as in all the
churches, as the rule of faith, the test of orthodoxy-as
being then of high antiquity-containiug all the received
doctrines with respect to the life and adventures of Jesue
Christ, all that was necessary to make a man wise unto
salvation through faith in Christ Jesus: how he. dUd for
...,. rim,'according to the Scripturu; and that he was buried;
and that he rose again the third day, according to the
awu.-1 Cor. xv. 4..
17. Upon the -strength and faith of these doctrines, we ·
find churches already established, and the distinct orders
of bishops, eldeN or priests, and deacons, as described by
Philo, already of so long standing, and of such high
honour and emolument, that it could have become a
·common adage, that " if a man tke Qjfi.ce of a bishop,
1te duireth a good 1Dork ;" many of the community having
held that offi.ee_.in such a way as to render it necessary, ia
the election of future bishops, that care .should be had, to
appoint such as should be " not given to wine, no strikers,
not greedy of filthy lucre," &c.-1 Tim. iii. 8.
And this was the state of things, in actual existence, be-
6>re the writing of any one of the four gospels.
18. " In my father's house are many maMonl; I go to
• Hom. 6, in laiah, Col. 106. D.
t Comment. on 2 Kings, c. '1.
*Cilu.&ioael a4 AntiodJuD. tom. 2. P. m •n.
10•
Dig,tizcd by Google
-
JOJ llEPiilllE!fC&I.
prepare a place for you."-John xiv. .2.. A fair translation
of the passage would re.nder it " In my father's house are
many monasteries."::--B" "'' euracs Tov l'ov, i'O""' n.U..
The translation here, egregiously protestantizes. MonG..
tery is correct rendering of the word 1'0"'1 ; and of all
possible derivatives and combinations ofit.; the leading or
radical idea is; a solitary abode, where ·each individual is
or excludes himself, from intercourse'With othen.
To those who consider Monachism, or Monkery, a8 a
corruption of sprung up in some later
age, this and such like texts must bear the appearance
of interpolations, or .modernisms, tending to betray a
later date than that challenged for these writings. But,
taking nature for our guide, we must necessarily con·
clude, that an imperfect and defective Bystem was infi..
nitely more likely to improve by time, and gradually to
throw off its original imperfections ·and defects, than a
system that started from a, state of excellence and per-
fection at to become in a few .ages entirely deterio-
rated and corrupted. ·
The positive evidence, then, of Philo, to the prior exist-
ence of Monkery, has that challenge on our conviction,
which must ever attend the highest species of testimony,
when borne to.the highest degree of probability.
19. In the first verse of the·Epistle to the Philippians,
there is a distinction made between the general congre-
gation of the 8ai..U, or Christians, and the Bishops and
Deacons, whiQh, by the learned Evanson, is adduced as
• an instance savouring very strongly of a much later age
than that of the Apostles.-.Dissonance, P· 264.
The antipapistical antipathies. of this Unitarian divine,
allowed him only to see matter of offence in the term
SAIIfTs, an order of men, as he supposes, first oon•
stituted by the superstitious piety of the Roman Catholic .
Church : but surely a moment's ingenuoUJ speculation on
the probabilities of circumstances, would discover matterof
equal incongruity in the idea of the existence of the dis-
tinct orders of bishops· and deacons, in a _
ftollllishing
national church, when this epistle was written, ten or
twelve years before the date ofany one of our four gospels,
and within the life time of one who was the ootemporary
of Christ, and the companion of his immediate disciples.
That church, and all others that could. have had in
them the distinot omens of bishops and deaoons, muat
Dig,tizcd by Google
- •
REFERENCES. 103
have been aneitnt at the time. Tliere could be no bishope
and deacons among new converts. Suoh a state of the
church, at that time, involves a certain demonstration, that
its doctrine, discipline and government must have been of
many years standing, anterior to the
20. It is a violence to imagination, and costs 1t a sort
of painful etfort.to that St. Paul could have writtea
his epistle to the Romans, in the Greek language : We
could as easily fancy a general address-to .the inhabitants
of London, in Arabic.
· !I. In the earliest Greco-Latin Codices, -the passage,
Romans xii. 18. "JNtributing to the mcu.ity of
Zll""'' T""' ..,....,. •o•...... " communicating to the
memories of the saints." t. e.-T"'' """"' Tllll' ar•- .. T· A.-
Of this passage, Michaelis remarks, that it conveys the
language and sentiments of a later age; .,cos. being
used in the ecclesiastical sense of the word, for or
fAartyrB, characters unknown at Rome, when St. Paul
wrote his epistle to the Romans ; and this fault, for a
fault he conceives it evidently is, could ·hardly have taken
place before the end of the second, or the beginning of the
third century.
Mosheim describes the festi'Dals and comtMmoratiotu of
1M being celebrated in the most extravagant
manner, as characteristic of the depravity of fourth
century: and all Protutant ecclesiastiCfl, strain every
nerve to throw the odium of what they esteem corruptiou
of the primitive pQrity, on later ages.
" It is well known, among other things, what oppor-
tunities of sinning were otfered to the licentious, by what
were called the vigils of Easter and Whitsuntide, or Pen-
tecost." .Mo.Vuim--vol.- i. p. 398. We find however that this
religious observation of the vigils of the great festivals,
especially that of Easter, in commemoration of Christ's
resurrection, was observed in a distinguished manner
among the Therapeutan or Essenians, and as it was an
annual observance, must have obtained many 1ears before
the birth of Christ.-&t the tramlated chapkr from
ftr8e 41.
22. ".Mort011er, brtthnn, I tklitlered unto you first of all,
tlal t111&ich I alto rtceit1td, h.ovJ that Christ died for our
""'' aceortling to the Scriptures ; and that he •a. and
'""' he role again the third day, auorain$ to the ;
Gftli that he -was 1un of Cephas, then oj the tvltloe : after
fAa&, he tiiGI iun of abota foe hundred brtthrtn at once, oj
-
BEFEIU!'!NCEI.
to1aom tlu greater part·remain unto thiB present, but .some sre
falun aslup : afor that, he was Bun of Jamu, then of.all the
dpostlu ; and last ofalllu tDCJB _,. of me as of ORe hom out '
·.j due time."--,i. Corinth xv. 1. . · .
The writer of this epistle, here refers to higher authority
than his own, "that, which he also recewed," that is, acrip-
turea, which related that Christ died for our sins ; that he
appeared Q.fter his .resurrection to five hundred brethren
atonce, and in an especial ·m.a.nUer, to Cephas,• and in a
like especial manner, to James. . ·
1. These circumstances. partake lapgely of the more
marvellous and exaggerative character of the apocrypl&al
gospels.. 2. They are certainly not contained in the ca-
-
nonical ones. 8. And yet are on, as so essential
to the Christian faith, that unless they were·kept in me-
mory, Christians would hat1e iruaif\. 4. No laws
of evidence would endure the assumption
that the witness, CephaS, was the same person as · the
apostle, . Peter. 5. Nor were .there twel(le disciples, after
Judas, who was one of the nUIII.ber, had hanged himself.
6. Nor is there the .least intimation, in any ofour gospels,
of an especial appearance to Jamu. 7. Nor was the
number of the brethren, at theirfirst after Christ's
ascension from the top of Mount Olivet, more than " about
an hundted and twenty.''t 8. Nor was there time.-
9. Nor was it possible, that the scriptures, which detailed
the circumstances of Christ's appearances after his resur-
rection, in this exaggerative style,· could have been in any
way derived from our four gospe.ls, or any of them : they
not having been written till twelve years alter this epistle.t
That, other scriptures than those which have come
do.
wn to us, telling the Christian story in different way,
were the original basis of the .faith ; and that
those IJther scriptures were in· vogue and notoriety, not
only before our gospels were written, but before _
the events
· related in our gospels had occurred ; arefacts, whose force
of to.the utmost degree of of
which histoncal fact Is capable. That those scnptures
were the sacred writings of the Egyptian-Therapeuts de-
scribed by Philo, and so expressly considered by Eusebius,
is matter of the strongest presumption .that can be sup-
posedin the of all other grounds of presumption.
• .Acta i. 15. This Cepbu - one of tile 70, a wbqlly diif'erent pen10aace
&om the Peter of the GoepeJ. : to this .-vance, we have the positive a.ertioa
of Euebiaa.. '
· t Bee die Table of the Times aDd Placea of Writillc, &o.
Dig,tizcd by_
Google
...
106
23. " ElM 111/wa 8/&aU thty do, vhich. are baptiud for 1M
4e4J, ij IM dead rue Mt at all 'J JJ'hy art thty t/t.e# baptized
forthtdead'J"-1 Cor. xv. 29.
Here is a reference to some, then wen known and es-
tablished religious ceremony, existing in a Christian church ;
of which ceremony and its significancy, and purport; no
trace br vestige has come down to us : nor can our com-
mentators come to any sort of agreement, as to what sense
should be attached to the words. It is utterly impossible,
tbat such a baptism could have come into use, or have ac-
quired a notoriety, as to make it §tand for so general an
argument, as that of the resurrection of the dead, within the
·term of life of any one who had conversed with St. Peter,·
on whom it hath been pretended, that the Christian church
is founded. Let the reader, if he can, conceive any other
way of accounting for the text, than its reference to some aa- ,
cient ceremony of the Egyptian Therapeuts, which, after the
schismatics and seceders fr.om their communion, had
1be name of Christians, grew gradually into disuse, and 110 tinaUy
lllllk in oblivion.•
24. Acts xx. 18. St. Paul addresses the elders of the
Ephesian church, - "I h.at1e been fllith. fOU at all letJ8oM.
fe all amot'J8' vhom I Jtm,e gone preacht.ng ·th.e kingdom of
God;" a style of the most atrectionate intimacy. Yet the
writer of the Epistle to the Ephesians, addresses them as
a stringer, who had only h.eard of their faith in the Lord
Jesus, and love unto all the saints." (Eph. i. 15.)-
Qunr. - Could the Paul, who declared ·in the one case, ·
and the Paul who wrote in ·the other, be the 881lle indi-
vidual? Query, - Who were all th.e BtJintl, who were loved
by the Ephesians, at least twelve years before any one of ·
our gospels was written? and consequently as many years
before there could be any saints whatever, whose faith bad been
founded on those gospels?
25. " Little children, it is th.e lMt time: and as ye h.at1e h.eard
IAat ./ln.tichNI th.aU come, tt1ea no111 are there many anti-
vh.ereby w lmo1l1 that it is th.e last time.'':-1 John
n. 12.
Here is a fun confession of the comparatively modem
character of.. this epistle: -1. The time which could be
spoken of as "th.e last," with relation to Christianity,
eould not but at least have been late, and late enough to
have given the persons so addressed, time to have beard
• fheyjoined themeelvee io Baal-Peor, and .&te the oft'erin.. ofthe deaAl.-
r.z.. The reader ia to make w!W Ule he ple- of thill coo,JeCture.
Dig,tizcd by Google
of the prophecy that Antichrist should oome : 1\nd, ! .
. 'l"o
have had faith in it, and expectation of .its acoomplisb-
ment, beforehand : S. And ifthe time when this epistle was
written (about A. u. 80) was the lGtt of Christianity,
there can have been no .Christianity in the world .since
then : 4. And Jf thm, while St. John was living, Antichrist
was come, and it was the liJ8I time, the Christ whom
St.·John intended to preach, must have been much earlier
in the world than that tir:ne. All .which. agrees in style
and manner with the character of an angry Egyptian
monk, complaining of the corruptions and perv8rsions
which his contemporaries had ptlt upon the pure and
original Therapeutan doctrines ; but presents not a single
. feature in keeping with the character of one, supposed to
be himself one ofthe earliest preachers of an entirely new
religion, who existed not in the last time, but in the.fim ;
not after Christianity had run to seed, but before it had
fully sprung up. "And'if Christianity," says Archbishop
Wake, "remained not uncorrupted so long, surely we
may say, it came up and was cut down like a flower, and
• continued not even so long as the usual term of the life
ofman." · · i
26. "I wrott unto the chureh; but Di.otrephu, tDM W.eth
to hoot the prt-tmimnce among them, reuiveth us not. WhtJre.
fort, if I come, I will remember his duifs which he doeth,
prating agaifl81 ·m with malicious tDOrds ; and n6l eotlltRt thert-
fllith, neither doth he himself receive the FRIARS, and forbid-
dttl& them that would, and casteth them otcl of tlu chwch."-
John iii. 9. 10. ·
. 1.. If this John were the disciple of 'Christ, this text is
fatal to the claims of St. John's Gospel, since itshows
the rulers of the church had rejected his writings. 2. It&
reference to the circumstances of mendicant friars, or
travelling quack-doctors, is as clear as the day. 8. But
who was this Diotrephe1, whose name signifies literally
the W8l'd. or pupil of Jupiter ? Any thing rather than a
Christian name. 4. And with what conceivable state of
a Christian community, that could have existed during the
life-time of one of its first preachers, can we associate
the idea of such a struggle for pre-eminence ? The phm-
nomena admit of no solution but that which determines
that these writings are the compositions of no such
as is supposed, and that, however ancient we take tbem
to be, they refer to a state of eecl'esiastical polity still mons
ancient.
Dig,tizcd by Google
REI'J:RENCJ:S. 10'7
}
27. '' Obey them that have thl "'lt over you, snd IUbmit your-
for they tMtch for your IOVU, tU THEY that must gitle m
account."-Heb. x.iii. 17.
28. "Remember them that have thl "'lt over you, VJM 1u&tJe
8p0ken unto· you the word of God !"-Heb. x.iii. 7.
What have we here, but references to ecclesiastical
and spiritual power, already established in all
1ts plenitude ? A state of things which could not possibly
have existed-a sort of lallg1,lage that could not pos-
sibly have been used, in any reference to an authority
which had originated within the life-time of the persons
so addressed, or to a word· of God, of which tlie then
preachers, were the first.
.29. "For such are faue apoBtles, deceitful VJorktrl,
forming thlmselvu into the apostlu of Christ; .and no marvel,
for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of
! Cor. xi. 13. Aye ! aye ! And with what state of a reli-
gion, whose founder had been crucified, and whose doc-
trines had not yet passed into the handtJ of a second
generation, and whose apostles had nothing but spiritual
blessings to confer on others, and nothing but martyrdom
to expect' for themselves, can we imagine that apostleship
to be so w!nning a game, that the Devil himself would
play it?* · · · .
THE CONCLUSIPN
Is inevitable. We are not, perhaps, entitled certainly to
pronounce that it was eo ; but the hypothesis (if it be no
more), that Paul and his party were sent out, in the fint
instance, as apostles, or missionarie.s, from this previously
existing society of .Monks, which had for agee, or ant
length of time before, fabricated and been in possession o
the allegoriCal fiction of Jesus Christ; that the .flcts of lhl
Jlpostlu, with the exception of all their details,
are a garbled journal of his real advtnturu ; and the
Epi.stlu, ...,.ith the exception: of some improved passages
and superior sentiments that have been foisted into them,
are such as he wrote to the various communities in which
he had es.tablished his own independent supremacy' by a
successful schism from the mother church : this hypothesis
will solve all the phrenomena ; which is what no other will.
• There are innumerable other puaagee ·to the like efl'ec:t ; nch u the wild
man John preaching in the tllikkmen : .II in tlae wilcienuN :
the mbmaloill fi1sti1J1 af the old WOIII&Il the s--wonl of the fli«ilant
moob, Water. au pray I &c. &c.. wboee further tractation would detain me
&oo loiJI fiom worthier matter. Let the reader g1auce hil eye over the N- 'r.-
tu.lt with thil ot.erv&DCe.
108 PBELIKII.UBY.
CHAPTER XIII.
ON .THE CLAIMS OF THE SCRIPTURES OJ' THE . NEW
TESTAMENT TO BE . CONSIDERED GENUINE AND
AUTHENTIC.
PRELJMINABY.
THERE is no greater nor grosser delusion perhape in the
world, than that of the common sophistry of arguing for
the genuineness and authenticity of the writings of the
New Testament, upon the ridiculous supposition, that the
state of of which. we are witnesses, with respect
to these wrltmgs in our times, .is the same, or much like
what it was, in the primitive ages ; that is, thai these
writings were in the hands of professing Chris-
tians, were d1sting\lished as pre-eminently sacred, had ·
their authority, universally acknowledged, or were so ex-
tensively diffused, that material alterations in them from
time to time, could not have been effected without certain
discovery. and as certain reprobation of so sacrilegious an
attempt.
The very reverse of .such an imaginary of
past to present circumstances, is the truth of history, as
borne out by the admissions of all who have devoted
their time and labours to the ofecclesiastical
antiquity. · ·
The learned Dr. IArdraer is constrained to admit, that
« even so late as the middle of the sixth century, the canon
of the New Testament had hot been settled by any
authority that was decisive and universally acknowledged ;
but Christian people were at liberty to judge Jor them-
selves concerning the genuineness of writings to
them as apoetolical, and to determine according ro evi·
dence."--Vol. 8, pp. 54-61. .
We have shown also, that the· scriptures were not
entrusted to the hands of the laity. The sense
which we find by the very earliest Fathers to have been 1
attached to them, is the strongest corroboration of those
positive testimonies whioh we have, that the Christian
people were kept in the profoundest ignorance of the
contents of the sacred volume. The clergy only, were
Dig,tizcd by Google
Pa&LIMil'U.aY. 109
t? be the fit of those myatioallegends,
which m the hands of the common people,·were 80 liable
to be" wrested to their own destruction." Not to insist
on the deplorable ignorance of all over Chfie..
tendom for 80 many ages, during which, scarce any but.
the clergy were able to read at all.
It would be hard to authenticate a instance of
the existence of a translation of the gospelsmto the vulgar
tongue, of any country in which Christianity was estab-
lished_, at any time within the first four centuries.
The clergy, or those engaged and interested in the
business of d,ealing out spiritual edification, whose testi-
mony alone we have on the subject, mutuaily criminate
and recriminate each other,•aceording as they grasp or
lose their hold on the ascendancy, (and so are held to be
orthodox or heretical) with corrupting the scriptures.
The epistolary parts of the New Testament, entirely
independent and wholly irrelevant of gospels as they
manifestly are, may 1?e considered as the fairest and moet
liberal specimen of the manner, in which the stewards of
the mysteries of God, " forth tlaings new and old,"•
according to the spiritual necessities of the congregations
which they addressed, while they steadily kept the key of
the sacred treasure, the right of expounding it, and even
of determining what it was, ezclumtly in their own banda.
Hence, though the gospel is spoken of in innumerable
passages of these epistles, (written, as we haveseen they
were,· before any gospels which have oome down to us,
except those which are deemed apocryphal,) there occun
not in them, a single quotation or text seeming to be taken
from the gospel 80 spoken of, or su1icient to show what
the contents of that were.
Hence the authenticity and genuineness of the writinga
of St. Paul, and of all those parts of the narrative of the
Acts of the Apostles, which Paley in his Pavlitta
has shown, present such striking coincidences with hia
is a whoJly distinct and irrelevant question, to
IMt of the genuineness and·authenticity of the writings on
, which the Christian faith is founded: for, as all persons
must see and admit at once, that if the four gospels of
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, which have come down
to us, could be shown to be the compositions of such
• E•ery Scribe iDIInctecl1mto the kincdo• of bePea, il like 111lto a mu dlat
ilaa bo.-laolder, which briJI&e&hforth oat of hil treuare, thiDp MW aad oJc!-
1111&. Di 12.-t. t· be pradicee the artof c*ei•illc the people.
. It
Dig,tizcd by Google
110 na.nrnu'RT.
per8M18, as thoae to whom, under ·iboee ftmett1 tiley are
ascribed, and so to be fairly and honourably genuine and
authenf.o-tkil, their highandindependent sanction, would
loee nolhing, nor even so much aa to be brought into
8U8picion, by a deteoti(m of the moet manifest forgery and
imposture of those subordinate, or, at most, only
aupplementary writings : so the . genuineness of these
supplementary writings, involves no presumption of the
genuineness or authenticity of those; but rather, as being
admitted· to have been written earlier than our gQSpele,
and referring continually to gospels still earlier than
themselves, which had previously been the rule of faith
to so many previously existing churches ; these epistles
supply one of r the most fortnidable arrays of proof that
ean possibly be imagined against the claims ofour gospels ;
and having served this effect, like expended ammunition
that has carried the volley to its aim, they dissipate and
break off into the void and incollectible inane. The
- pels once convicted of being merely supposititiou
and furtive compositions, it is not the genuineness and
demonstrable authenticity of any other parts of the New
Testament, that its advocates will eare to defend, or its
enemies to impugn. They fall as a matter of course, like
the provincial towns and fortreeses ofa conquered empire,
to the masters of the capital.
In this DrEGEsrs, we shall therefore more especially
oonfine our investigation to the claims of the Evangelical
histories ; and as our arguments ·must mainly be derived
from the admissions which their best learned and ablest
advocates have made with respect to them, we shall
throughout, speak of them and of their contents, in the
tone and language which courtesy and respect to the
feelings of those for whose instruction we write, may
reasonably claim from us ; and which being understood as
adopted for the convenience of argument otily, caninvolve
no compromise of sincerity:
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
CANOlfl OJ' ClliTIOIIII. Ill
CHAPTER XIV.
C,llfOJ!fl OJ' CRITICUII.-D.A.TA. OJ' · ClliTICIIII,--()OllOLLA.•
RIJ:I.-DR. LA.IU>NJ:B'a TABLE.
CANONS 01' CRITICJIII.
To be applied in judging·the cOmparatitte claiflll of the
.Opocryplwl and Canonical Go'J'8ll.
1. The canonical and apocryphal gospels are competi·
tive, i.e. they are reciprocallydestructive of each other'•
pretensions.
!. If the canonical are authentic, the apocry-
phal gospels are forgenes.
8. If the apocryphal gospels are authentic, the canonical
gospels Q.re forgeries.
4. No consideration of the comparative merits or cha-
racters of the competitive worb, can have place in the
consideration of their claims to authenticity.
5. Those writings, which ever they be, or whether they
be the better or the worse, which can be shown to have
been written .fim,·have the superior claim to authenticity.
6. It is impo88ible that those writings which were the
first, could have been written to disparage or supel'l!lede
those which were written after.
'7. Those writings which have the less appearance or
art and contrivance, are the first. ·
8. Thoee writings which exhibit a more rhetorical con-
struction of language, in the detail of the same events,
with explications, suppressions, and variations, whose ·
evident scope is, to render the story more probable, are
the later writings. ·
9. Those writings whose existence is acknowledged by
the others) but which thelilselves acknowledge not those
others, are unquestionably the first.
10. There ooaJ.d be no conceivable object or purpose in
putting forth writings which were much worse, after the
world were in poneBBion of such as were much better.
11. If the story were not true, in the first way of telling
it, no in the way of tellingit, could render it
true.
J!. If thoee, who were only improvers upon the original
history, have ooneealed that fact, and have suffered man-
kind to undentand that the i•P""'....., were the orifinalr;
oigtizedbyGoogle
liS
they are guilty and wicked forgers, and never could have
had any other or better intention, than to mislead and de-
ceive mankind.
'DATA OF CRITICISM.
To be applied in judging tht claimr oftAt
· .flpocryphal aftd Canonical GospelB.
t. It is manifest and admitted on all hands, that the
· apocryphal gospels are very silly and artless compositions,
u fun of pious frauds and fabulous wonders."--.M'oshtiM,
iAloto. .
2. It is manifest, and admitted on all hands, that the
canonical gospels exhibit a more rhetorical construction
oflanguage than the apocryphal, andhav.ea highly-wrought
sublimity and grandeur, the like of which is no where to
be found in any of the apocryphal gospels.
8. The canonical gospels, but more especially the
canonical epistles, which are admitted to have been .
written before the gospels, do in very many places acknow-
ledge the existence and prevalence of those writings which
are now called apocryphal. .
4. The apocryphal gospels, asfar as we have any traces
of them left, do no where recognise or acknowledge the
writings which are now called canonical.
5. The apocryphal gospels, are quoted by the very
earliest Fathers, orthodox, as well as heretical, as rever-
entially as those which we now call canonical.
6. The apocryphal gospels, are admitted in the New
Testament itself, to have been universally received, .and
to have been the guide and rule of faith to the whole
Christian world, before any one of our present canonical
gospels, was in existence. '
COROLLARIES. .
J. Indications of time, discovered in those goapela
which were written first, will indicate .time re'lalitltly, to
those·which were written gr:ano. It
being proved that the legend A. was written before the
1egend C, there will be proof, that events which were oon-
.temporary or antecedent to the writing of A., were ante-
cedent, a forliori, to the writing of C. .
!. Indications· of the prevalence of a lltJit of tMtagf,
existillJr •when the earlier gospels were writtea, will
indicate relatively the state of things, when the latter
Dig•tizcd by Google
I
j
DR. LARDl'f.ER11 .TABLE. 113
gospels were written---ezempli grand. It being .proved
that the earlier gospels were.written under an universal
prevalence of the notions and doctrines of monkery, there
will be proof ofthe monkish character nece88arily derived
to the gospels, derived from those
DR. LllkDN.ER18 TJ.BLJ:.
Dr. Lanlrler'• Plan if tlu Times and Placu if fln'iting the Fow
. Go8pel8 and tlu .!leu of tlu JJpostlt•. ·
(Sapplemen& &o The Credibility, ko. vol. i. p. ir.)
..t. D.
Go.,U.. Placu.
St. Matthew's. Judea, or near it.
St. Mark's. Rome.
About 64
64
63 or 64
68
63 or 64
St. Luke's. Greece.
St. John's. Ephesus.
The Acts of the Apostles. Greece.
Jl Nle if St. Paul'• EpUtlet in the Order of 7Pae ; viti tlu Placu
tDI&tre, and Uu Tanu tJJhen, tluy wr,e
(F'Jom .Lardaer'1 SuppleiiMIII& &o Tbe Credibility, &c. 'VOL ii. p. iv.)
1 The118alonians.
i TheBBalonians.
GalatiB.DS.
1 Corintbiana.
1 Timothy.
Titus.
! Corinthians.
Rom&DB.
Ephesians.
''IUnothr.
·Philipp•ans.
Colossians.
Philemon.
Hebrews.
· Placu.
Corinth.
Corinth.
Corinthor Ephesus. 1
Epheaus.
Macedonia.
Macedonia, or near it.
MacedoDia.
Corinth.
Rome.
Rome.
Rome.
llome.
Rome.
Rome or Italy.
Jl. D.
&.l
6i
Near the end of ld
or thebeginning of 53
The beginning of56
56
Before the end of 56
About October 57
About February 58
About April 61
About May 61
Before the end of
Before the end of
Before the end of
In the spring of63
Jl T.bk qf flae &.en Calho'" E,utlu, atld flae ,
the }Jlacu tDI&en, and flu nmutDI&eta, ll&cy wre twiUtta.
(Fiom lArdner'• Sapplemalt to Tbe Credibility, kc. "VOl. iii. p. iY.)
Placu. . ..t D.
'1\e Epistles of St. J amea. Judea. 61, or thebeginning of
'Die two Epistles of St. Peter. Rome. 64
St. John's Ant Epiatle. Epheaua. Ahout 80
1 His second and third Epistles. Ephesus. Between 89 and 9(1
The Epistle of St. Jude. Unknown. 64 or 65
The Revelation of St. John. fatmoa or Ephesus. 95 O! 96
u•
o;g; ized bvGoogle
114 o• THE J'OUB GOIPELI 1ft' QJ:ft'EUL.
CHAPTER XV.
OJ' THE FOUB GOSPELS, IN GENERAL.
THE ordinary notion, that the four gospels were written
bythe'persons.whose names they bear, and that they have
descended to us from original autographs of Matthew and
John, immediate disciples, and of Mark and Luke, ootem-
poraries and companions of Christ ; in like manner as the
writings of still more early poets a:nd historians have de.s-
eended to us, from the pens of the authors to whom they
are attributed, is altogether untenable. It has been
entirely surrendered by the most able and ingenuous
Christian and will no be maintained by any
but those whose zeal outruns theu knowledge, and whoee
recklessness and temerity of assertion, can serve only to
dishonour and betray the cause they so injudiciously seek
to defend.
The surrender of a position which the world has for
ages been led to consider impregnable, by the admission
of all that the early objection of the learned Christian
Bishop, FAUSTUs, the Manichean, implied, when he
pressed Augustine with that·bold challenge which Augus-
tine was unable to answer, that,• "It is certain that
the New Testament was not written by Christ himself, nor
by his apostles, but a long while after them, by some un-
known persons, who les.t they should not be credited when
' they ·.wrote of affairs they were little acquainted with,
affixed to their works the names of apostles, or of such as
were suppoeed to have been their companions,· asserting
that what they had written themselves, was written
AccoaoJft'G To those persons to whom they ascribed it."
This admission has not been held to be fatal to the
elaims of divine relation, nor wa.S it held to be so even by
the learned Father himself who so strenuously insisted on
it, since :he declares his own unshaken faith in Christ's
myrlittil crucifixion, notwithstanding.
• Nee ab iplo ICI'iptam COJIItat, Dec ab ej011 apoelolil ted loap JICIIl te.peN ·a
iDcerti 110mim. viril, qai ne llibi DOD babentar &del qaa
-ireot, partim llpOICDloram, eol'11m qlli apoatol011 18C11ti
nomina 1Criptol'11m nol'11m fiontibu indiderant, a.everantell e&CUl'I'DtJ¥ - ·
•ICI'iJiei- qutiCl'ipMnlllt.-Quoted by Lordnw, voL 2, p•.lll.-Bee ClwJp-
,,. '7, , .... •flAil DI&G.IJI.. . - .
Dig,tizcd by Google
OJ' !'.J: J'OUB GO&NLt IK 4JE!fll:ll.&L. 115
Adroitly handled as the p8188ge has been by the ia-
genuity of theologians, it has been made rather to subserve
the cause of the evidences of the Christian religion, than
to injure it. Since though it be admitted, that the Chri•
tian world has '' al.l alonK a dtlt18ion" in tlue
respect, and has held these writings to be of
authority than they really are ; yet the writings themselvee
and their authors, are innocent of having contributed to
that .delusion, and never bore on them, nor ia them; anr
challenge to so high authority aa ·the mistaken piety e£
Christians has ascribed to them, but did all along profeea
no more than to have been written, as Faustus testifies,
not •r, but AccoRDING to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John ; and by persons of whom indeed it is not known
who nor what they were, nor was it of any consequence
that jt should be, after the general .acquiescence of the
church had established the suB1-cient correctness of the
compilations they had_
made.
And here the Iongo post ttmpDTe, (the great tiJhile ajtt-1,)
is a favourable presumption of the sufficient opportunity
that all persons• had, of knowing and being satisfied, that
the gospels which the .
church received, were indeed all
that they purported to be ; that is, faithful narrations of
the life and doctrines of Christ, according to what could be
· collected from the verbal accounts which his apostles had
given, or by tradition been supposed to have given, and aa
such, " worthy of all acceptation." · •
While the objection of FaustUs, becomes from ita own
nature the most indubitable and inexceptionable evidence,
carrying us up to the very early age, the fourth century,
in .he '!l"Ote, with a that the gospels
were then uruversally known and received, under the pre-
cise designation, and none other, .than that with which
they have come down to us, even as the gospels respeot-
iv.ely, accordiftK to Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.
Of course there can be no occasion to pursue the inquiry
into the aut\l,enticity of the Christian scriptures, lower
down than the fourth century.
1. 'Ifwugh, in that age, there was no established caDQa .
or authoritative declaration, that such and none other•
• By aU pertOJU, llllde&'lltalldiu& ltrictly a11 par-.ror &M - .-P.'•
were t&Obotl,, IIMi 118\'er at any lime- bad any Yoioe, jadpe.ot, or optiM, m &M
Jnuiu- of reJisioo, btlalway• believed, that which their sodfubert ud cod-
..... did promile IIMi Yow that.tbey lbould believe. Gofl ez devil, ad uy ICII'ip-
tlrel tbeir mu&ln pleued, were alwap all OM &o .....
Dig,tizcd by Google
118 or 'J'BB I'OUB aOIP&LI ll'f GEfti:JlAL.
tlt.an-those which have.come down to us, were the boob
which contained the Christian rule of faith.
!. And though " no manuscript of these writings now
in existence is prior to the sixth century, and various
readings which, as appeal"B from the quotation• of the
Fathers, were in the text of the Greek Testament, are to
be found in none of the manuscripts which are at present
remaining."--.Miclaaelil, vol. .2, p. 160. ·
3. And though many p888ages which are now found in
these scriptures were not contained in any ancient copies
whatever;
4. And though " in our common editiolll of the Greek
Testament, are MANY readings, which exist not in a single
manuscript, but are founded on MERE coNJECTUilE."-
.MGt'fh'• Mu:hatlil, vol .2, p. 496.
5. And though " it is notorious, that the orthodox
charge the heretics with corrupting the text; and that the
heretics recriminate upon the orthodox."-Unitarian N•
Yemon, p. 1.21.
6. And though " it is an undoubted fact, that the here-
tics were in the right in many points of criticism, where
the Fathers accused them of wilful corruption."-Bp.
-.Mor1h, vol 2, p. 862.
7. And though " it is notorious, that forged writings
UBder the names of the Apoetles were in circulation
almoat from the apostolic age."-See 2 These. ii. 2, qvoltd
V. Unitarian Neu Yenion.•
8. And though " not long after Christ's ascension into
heaven, several histories of his life and doctrines, full of
pious fl'&uds and fabulous wonders. were composed by
persons whose intentions, perhaps, were not bad, but
whose writings discovered the greatest superstition and
ignorance."---Jlf01htitn, vol. I, p. 109.
9. And though, says the great Scaliger, "They put into
their scriptures whatever they thought would serve their
purpose. ·
10. .And though" notwithstanding those twelve known
infallible and faithful judges of .controversy (the twelve
Apostles), there were aa many and as damnablt heresies
crept.in, even in the apostolic age, as in any other age,
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
01' THE I'Otl'R GOSPELS IN GENEilAL. 111
perhaps, during the same space of Preli-
fllinary Diacowse to the Commonitory of rincenliul Lirinat-
AI, p..190. . .
11. And though there were in the manuscripts of the
New Testament, at the time of editing the last printed
copies of the Greek text, upwards of oNE HtJNDilED AND
TBI:RTY THOUSAND various readings."-Unitarian New Yer-
rion, p. .2.2• .
1.2. And though " the confusion unavoidable in these
versions (the ancient Latin, from which all our European
versions are derived), had arisen to such a height, that
St. Jerome, in his Preface to the Gospels, complains that
no one copy resembled vol. .2. p. 119.
18. And though ·the fatally contradict each _
other ; that is, in severalurtportant particulars, they do 80
to such an extent, as no ingenuity of supposition has yet
been able to reconcile : only the mosfstupid and
of Methodist parsons, and canting, arrogant fanat1es, any
longer attempting to reconcile them, after Marsh, Micha-
elis, and the most learned·critics, have struck, and owned
the conquest.• ' ·
14. And'though the difference of character between the
tllree first gospels, and that ascribed to St. John, is 80
ftagrantly egregious, that. the most learned Christian di-
vines, and profoundest scholars, have frankly avowed that
theJesus Christ of St. John, is a wholly different character
from the Jesus Christ of Matthew, Mark, and Luke; and
that their account pnd his should both be true, is flatly
impossible.t ·
15. And though'such w.as the· idolatr.ous adulation paid
to the authority of Origen, that emendations of the text
which were but suggested by him, were taken in as part
of the New Testament ; though he himself acknowledged
that they were supported by the authority of no manu-
script whatever.--JJ-farsh, in loco. ·
16. And though, even 80 late as the period of the
Reformation, we have whole passages which have been
thrust into the text, and out, just.as it served the
turn which the Protestant tricksters had to serve.
• See Bilbop Man!J'• Sarreuder, «JUoted in chapter 17. ·
t Si (orte accidi.et, ut Johanma EvaurJium per octQdecim MCula priora
,.._ ipotum jacuiaeet, et nostris demum in medinm produotum
_. omnes baud dubie wno ore confiterentur Jenm a Jobanne deacriptam loop
alam - ac illium Mattbmi, Marci, et LUCill, nee utramcpae lliiD1al
YlllmeM ,-.-Ocarol. Tlaeopla. Bret1elataeUUr Probcat. Lipli•, 1820.
'
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
JJ8 O.J' 'I'BE J'Omt 801P8LS tR
17. Andthough we on reeord the mOlt indubitably
historical evidence, of a general censure and correction
of the Gospels having been made at Constantinople, in
the year 506, by order of the emperor Anastasius.•
18. And though we have like unquestionable historical
evidence, of measureless and inappreciable alterations of
the·same, having been made by our own Lanfranc, Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, for the avowed purpose of CICCOIII--
waodating thtm to Ike faith of Ike ortlwdoz.t .
19. And though there are other passages retained and
circulated as part of the word of God, which are knowil
and admitted by all parties tO be wilful interpolations,
and downright forgery and falsehood.
20. And though we see with our own eyes, and witn.es,J
in our own experience--as per example, in the Athanuian
Creed-that nothing could be so absurd, 80 false, 80 wick-
ed, but that it would be retained and supported by our
Christian clergy, on the selfsame principle· as that on
which they support all the rest on't,-even because it sup-
ports thtpa !
· Yet, after all, we snail find thousands of interested
aspiring pedants, pretendi.ng to reconcile what cannot be
reconciled, to prove what cannot be proved, and to show
that to be true, which every sense and faculty of man
attests and demonstrates to be false. It is, however, 011
the ground of inspiration, that they ultimately rest their
pretensions : it was on tluu ground that the Tower of Be.·
bel was built ; that we leave them ; but on the ground of
history, criticism, reason, "nd natural evidence, they h•ve
no rest for the sole of their foot. I recommend them to
treat us with contempt, and to &end us to Coventry, and
not to Oakham.
• Here it il. "H.-la V. C. CIQIRie, Co1111811tillopoU. jabeDte Alulltalio
lmperatore, IIIIDCta evanplia, tlulqaam ab idioti. naorJ.idis compoli&a,
reprehendantur et emendantur."- Pietor Tununenril, Caee'1 .lliltoria w ..
raria,- vol. 1. p. 415-i. e. " TAe illmtrioul .Me11ala bring COMUl; &y tM
command of tlu Emperor: .IAUtarim, tlu holy Go.ptll, 01 l&ariJ,g
tllf'itten by idiot et14f11feliltl, are cemured and corrected.''-Victor, Billbep
.
t See Beauaobre, quoted mthe Manifesto of .the Cbristiaa Evideoee Society ;
lllld this,. and the preceding extract vmdicated, in the author'• apilllll&
the vituperatioDS of the ennpical Dr. Jolm Pye Smidl..illlocil. , .
' Dig•tizcd by Google
•
OJUQI!f OJ' THE THB£1: I'IBBT GOSPJ:LI. 119
•
CHAPTER XVI.
ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR THREE FIRST CANONICAL
GOSPELS.
THAT ·our three first canonical gospels have a remarkable
to each other ; and that the three first .evan-
gelists (ac. Matthew, Mark, and Luke) frequently agree,
not only in relating the same things in the same manner,
but likewise in the same words, is a fact of which every
one must be convinced who has read a Greek Harmony
of the Gospels. In some cases, all the Evangelists agree
word for word, as thus :
LTTBJ:w, uiv. 83. M.a.a.:, xili. 20. Lu1u:, ui. 81.
Now leam a parable Now team a parable Behold the fis-tree,
or the fig-tree ; .when his of the fig-tree ; when hllr and all the u- ; whea
bnnch ill yet tender, aud braueh is yet tender, aud they now ahoot forth, ye
p!IUelh forth leaves, ye putteth foi'Jh leaves, ye aee and !mow of yoar
bow that IIIUDmer wknow \bat summer il oW!IIIelves, that nmmer
· niah : so likewise, ye, near : 10 ye, in like man- ia now nigh at band.: 10
whea sba,l1 eee all ner, . when ye ahall 1188 likewise, ye, when . ye .
"- tblnp, know that these thinp eome to aee thelie things eome to
it ill near, even at the pus, bow that it is pus, know ye that the
duo& Verily, I aay11Dto mp, evea at the dooiB. kinadom of God is nigh
jn, this peration ahall Verily, I ..y nnto you, at band. Verily, I say
1101 pa.. tilt all these that this generation shall .unto you, this genera-
thinfl be Calfilled. Hea- not pus, till all these lion ahall not pus away,
'IIIII IIDd earth ahall pa111 things be done. Heaven till all be fulfilled. H...
away, bat my worda ahall and earth ahall pus away, ven aod earth eball pus
1181 puuway. but my worda ahall not away, but my worda shall
pue away. not pus away.
These phamomena are inexplicable on any other than
one of the two following suppOsitions, either that St.
thew, St. Mark, and Saint Luke, copied from each other,
or that all three drew from a common sourc.e.
In xiii. 13 to 32, there is such a close verbiU agree-
ment, for twenty verses together, with the parallel pas-
sage in St. Matthew's gospel, that the texts of St. Matthew
aad St. Mark might pass for one and the same text.
" The most eminent critics are at present decidedly of
opinion that one of the two suppositions must necessarily
be that the three evangelists copied from
each other, or that all the three 'drew from a. commOA
and that the Iiotiol) of an independence,
m'tespeet to the composition of our three first gospels, is
no longer tenable. Yet the queation, which of these two
...
1!0 . QIUGll'f OJ' i'lUl' OOIPELt•.
eupp0sitions to be i.n preference to the other,
is still inagitation; and each of them has such able
cates, that if we were guided by the authority of names,
the decision would be extremely difficult."* ·
Difficult as the decision may be ; to the great end of this
general view of the evidence the claims of divine
revelation, it is utterly indifferent ; since eithet alternative
affords results equally conclusive, and equally militant
against the character of th()se through whose hands these
.writings have come down to us. In either alternative,
they are not original writings; they.are not tchat they pur-
port to be ; and the writers stand. convicted, at least, of
·negative imposture, (if indeed the imposture is attribu-
table to them,) .in passing their compositions off as origi-
nal, and attempting to conceal from us the help they
borrowed from each other, or what the common .source
was from which they each of them drew. ·
Le Clerc, in his HLstoria Critica, published at Amster..
dam, A. n. 1716, seems to. have been the fitst among
modern divines who ventured to put forth the startling
supposition these three gospels were in part derivea
from either sirili,lar or the self-same sources.t
This opinion lay dormant upwards of sixty .years, till it
was revived by Michaelis, in the third edition ofhis Intro-
duction, published 1777. Dr. Semler, however, was the
·first writer who made it known to the public that our three
first evangelists used ·in common a Hebrew or Syrlao
'document or documents, from which tlley derived . the
principal materials oftheir history ; in a
at Halle, in. 1783 ; but he has delivered it only in a cu-
sory manner; and astb.e thought was then new, he does
not appear to have had any very determinate opinion on
the subject. The probability js, that he dared not at that
time have ventured to put forth a determinate.opinion on
the subject. We find Bishop Marsh himself, evenin this
learned dissertation, the highest authority I could adduce
on the subject, confessing '\that the easie1t and the moat
prudent part that he could take, would b,e merely to relate
.the op,inions of others, without an opinion of his
· own. ' There was little fear that so high a dignitary of
: the church would, for any opinion he xnighi hazard, be
. liable to be dealt with as an humbler heretic of his oom•
• Bilhop llfanh'• Miclllae&, vol. 8, put lll, p. 1'70.
t Q.uidai ereclamu .na b.c evliDgelia partial petit& .. ax au --.
1b'tibu.-.Le Clere, Ira.t. Crit. in loeo. '
ORIGIN or Tll1: TBB&J: riBIT GOIPII:LI. lJl
munion. The episcopal palace of Peterborough is far
enough from Oakham Gaol ; yet, for all that, a bishop
will never be found wanting of the virtue of prudence.
The express declaration of Eusebius, that the Thera-
peutle described by Philo were Christians, and that their
sacred scriptures were our Gospels, after having lain
dormant for fourteen hundred years, now at length rises,
upon the admissions. of these learned divines, into the
dimensions of its real importance. From these sacred
legends, of a sect so long anterier to the epocha assigned
to Christ and his apostles, our Christian scriptures hv.ve
been plagitwiatd; and the first position of the Manifesto
of the Christian Evidence Society, for the public .main·
tenance of which the author of this Du:oEsu endures the
fate of felony and criJ:!le, is nothing more than had in
·other words been previously· published, by the learned
bishop in whose diocese he is a prisoner.
" COIIIIIIIiuiUI& eadem di'feiBO erimiua fato
me Cll'llceDl pretium tulit, hie diadema....
Euaebius, however, is not alone, even among the ancients,
in betraying the fact ·of this GREAT PLAGIARISM. Hints
and inuendoes occur in a thousand. places, pointing out
the same fact, to those who were entitled by learning and ·
ol&.ce to be intrusted with what Origen significantly calls
the AacANA IMP-Ean, or ucrm of the management ; while,
ae the custody of the sacred books was never committed
to the people, and they were expressly forbidden to exa-
mine into the foundations of their faith, nothing was more
facile, nothing mere practicable, than for the heads and
fU!ers of the church to modify and adop! those previously
eiisting romances, whose effect in subduing the reason of
mankind had been found by long experience, and which
w-ere too ancient to be found out, too sacred to be sus-
pected, and too mysterious to be understood.
Epiphanius, as long ago as the fourth century, epeak-
of the verbal· harmony of the gospels, which he calls
their pnachillg harmoniously and alilu,t accounts for it by
aaying, that they vert dratm from the Bamt fourw.ia ;*
though he has not explained what he meant by the same
foontain.
Dig,tizcd by Google
/
/
NIEJIEYEB.'S HYPOTHESIS.
LESSING's HYPOTHESIS.
But it was in the ye1J.r 1784, in the posthumous works tif
Lessing, published at Berlin, that the hypothesis of a com-
mop Syriac or Chaldee origin was decidedly maintained,
and put forth to the world with much more precision than
the fortitude of Semler had venture«;!. Lessing was dead
first. . It is not from living authors, or from those who
wish to live, that the world has-to look for important
discoveries in Those who offer truth to the
Christian community, must ever provide for their escape
from the consequences of doing so. ·
NIEMEYER's RYPOTJlESJS.
Six years afterwards (in 1790), the important truth was
·taken up, and allowed to be spoken, in consequence of
meeting the approbation of Niemeyel', Professor of
Divinity in Halle, who, in his Conjecturu in illustration
of the Silenu of most of the Writers of.tht Ntto .Tutamem,
concerning the beginning of the Life of Je8ua Christ, says,
that " If credit be due to the authority .of the 'Fathers,
there existed a most ancient narration of th.e life of Jesus
Christ, written especially for those inhabitants of Palestine
who became Christians from among the Jews."*-" This
narrative is distinguished by various names, as the Gos-
PEL of the J.lpostlea-the GosPEL of the
GosPEL according to .Mattht1o-tJt. GosPEL of the Naz.a-
renu ; and this same, unless all things .deceive me, is to
be considered as the fountain from which other writings
of this sort have derived their origin, as streams from the
spring."t
Dr. Niemeyer further adds, in a passage to which
Bishop Marsh invokes our especial attention, that
t " Since this book of which we speak contained the
• Jam ai habenda est patrum auctoritate antiquiasiJDa extitit de vita Jen.
Christi narratio, in 111111111 eorum, qui e J'lldalil Chriltiani facti erant, Palatinen-
aiun imprimilecripta. · .
t Hrec narratig variis nominib118 inaignitur, quo pertinent Evange!ium
Apoatoloram, Hetineoram, NIIZIU1Il0rum, leCIIDdnm Mattbeeam : eademque, Dili
me omuia fallnnt, pro fonte '-abenda ut, e quo reliqua id genm •cripla tatt-
fUG"' riouli originem IWJM duzer.tmt.
t Cam vero contineret hie tiber, de qno qlllllrimDII Apoetolorwn de vita
non modo propter arpmenti pvitatem credibile est, ejul exemplaria
in plnrimoram chriatianorwn manib118 rw.e, qaoram muime debabat intere.e
m.ptri 8lli imqinem intneri, veram etiam aingulie uemplaribua -.
quilque alinnde de Christo compena haberet, tanqnam anbtaria adiCripla
- : !ta quidem nt vel Apoetolorum lllVO, p1Dr811 extiternnt horwn memorabillima
receall01l&
Q.uocl ti l1llllitar ; 111111ta facillime explicari ,_m, nblua iM h:JPO-
Dig,tizcd by Google
NIEMEYE&'s HYPOTHESU. 1!8
narrations of the apostles concerning the life of· Christ,
not only is it credible.from the importance of its argu-
ment, that copies of it should have been in the hands of
the generality of Christians, whom it ought chiefly to have
concerned to behold the divine image of their master, but
that in each particular copy, would be written as a sort
of supplement, whatever any om had found. to be true
concerning Christ from other sources : so that
even in the age of the apostles, there might have been
several selections of these memoirs : which if it be ad-
mitted ; many things can be most easily explained, which·
otherwise render the origin of our gospels very ob1cure. In
the first place, the clear agreement of Matthew, Mark, and
Luke, in many parts of their gospels, not only in the re-
semblance of the subjects of which they treat, but in the
use of the same tDOrds, is understood. Make a hundred
men to have been witnesses of the same fact; IJ}ake the
same hundred to have written accounts of what they saw ;
they will agree in matter, they will differ in words :-nor
, will any one say that it happened by accident, if even
three or four out of theirnumber, had so related the story,
as to answer word for word, through a course of many
periods.
"But who is ignorant, that such an agreement is to be
1
observed repeatedly in the commentaries of the Evange-
Usts ? But this is 'not wonderful : since they drew from the
llilme fountain. They translated the memorable sayings and
actions of Christ, which were written in Hebrew, into
Greek, for the use of those who spoke the Greek language.
But, how came it that Luke should follow a different
tl.i, ac1mo4um ob.cuna reddunt evUII8liol'llm oriplee. Primum
IDteiJisitur COII8eD8118 , Matth&ei, Marci, (ace, per plares evangelioram suoram
prte., non modo in rerum qllllll traetunt eimilitadine, vel'llm etiam verboram
IOIIIpiratione perspicuae : Fac centum homines ejusdem facti failse testes ; Fac
08lllam ipeos quod viderint manduae literis : Cousentient re, different verbill :
aec qaisquam euu f'actum esse judieabit, ei vel tres aut qaatuor ex eol'IIID Damero
nm ila urraverint, at per plarimanun periodorum IEII'iem, verbllln verbo rel-
poadeat. Hoc vero qnia ignorat obeervari in evllll8eliltarum tDtlt-
llltfltariU '1 . Atqui hoc mirum DOD est. JV'empe ex eodem hatuerunt fonte.
Memorabilia Cbriiti et dicta et facta HebraiCe eeripta, in ueum Gneee loqaeDtium, .
Gne'ca feceruat. · ·
Qui nro faetnm at Luas alium tequeretur rerum ordinem, quam Mu-
beila ; at .in Marco plura in Matthleo, euju vestigia preDlele
'lidetui obvia ? Ut in singulis partib1111, alter altero verboeiol', in obeervandil
Jebae minutia, diligentior reperiatur ? Quoniam, ut diximua, mira fuit exempla-
rium, qUIIB .ia'ta Apoetolorum. eompleetebantur
Dei,Hie, quoniam liberum fuit us, qui ex iMtie , - evangelia eon-
tianabant, addere aibi aliunde iDnotaiseeDt, reeecare '{llll vel111bleatal fidei, wl
lliDal atilia leetoribua, et a suo eeribendi cousilio remota judiearent.
Dig>tizcd by Google
124 I!ICHHOllN'& HYPOTHESIS.
..
arrangement from Matthew ?. That many things.should be
wanting in Mark, that are readily to be met with in Mat-
thew, whose steps he to follow? That in particular
parts, one should be found more, wordy than the ot4er ;
m observing minute circumstances more diligent ?-Why· !
Because as we have said, .there really was a wonderful
diversity in the copies which contained those MEMOI,RS OJ'
THE APOSTLEs : and, secondly, because it was optionable
for those who composed their gospels, out of those com-
ment,aries, to add whatever they knew of the matter from
other sources, and to cut off whatever they considered to be
of equivo9al credibility, or less useful .to readers and aliene
-from their object in writing." . . .
THE QUES.TION PROPOSED IN THE tJl'fiVERSITY. 01' GOTTIK•-
. GEl'f, A. D. 1798.
In 1798, the. faculty at Gottingen, proposed
for the prize dissertat10n the question ;-What wtUthe ori-
gin of the Gospels of .Matthew, .Mark, Luke, and John .1 Ji'rom
what fountains did the authors of .those · gospels draw 1 For
what readers in particular, and with what aim did they each
VJrite, and how, and at what, time came it to pa88, that thoaefour .
gospels acquired a greater authority, than that of the gospel.
which are called ·apocryphal; and' became canonical;'' The
prize was adjudged to Mr. I!alfeld, who maintained that
the Evange)ists their gosi?els from ditferent
• documents. For proposing a similar question in London;
in the year 1828, the author of this DIEGESIS obtained the
prize, of a year's imprisonment, Oakham·Gaol, in the
((ounty of Rutland. . ·
DR. EICHHOllN'S HYPOTHESIS.
In his dissertation, On the Origin ·of our Thm litnt
Gospels, printed in 1794, in the fifth volume of his Universal
Library, of Biblictll Literature,* by far the most important
of all the Essays which · appeared on this subject,
Dr. Eichhorn, sueposes that only one document was used,
by all three Evangelists, but he supposes that various
additions, had been made in various copies of it, and that
three different copies, thus variously enriched, were res-
pectively used by our three first Evangelists, independer&tlf
. .
• The Germaa title il Allpneine Bibliothek der BihlilcheD Lil«abar ; a ,.n.
publica&ion.
•
BI!AUIOBRE'I BYPOTHE818. J,t5
of each · According to Eichhorn's hypothesis, the
proprietors of different copies of this document, added in
the margin, those circmnstances, which had come to their
knowledge, but which were unnoticed by the author Qr
authors of the documents ; and these marginal additions
were taken by transcribers into the text.
Eichhorn ·is· decidedly of opinion, that the original
document, of whioh the Evangelists used various copies,
was written, not in Greek, but in Hebrew, or Chaldee:
which alone accounts for the vhamomenon of their some-
times using different, but synonymous Greek expressions,
in relating the same thing. "We possess, (says he,) in
·our three three translations of the above·
·mentioned short Life of Chrilt,.which were made indepen-
dently of each other. . Examples, (he states,) may be pro-
duced, which. 'betray an ·inaccuracy of translation.
The phrenomena, in the verbal agreement of our three
first gospels, are, however, of such a particular description,
as to be wholly incompatible with the notion of three inde-
pendent translations of the same original. They are of
such a particular description, that it lay not within the
power of transcribers to have produced them. ·They afford
so severe a test, that no other assignable cause, than that
by which the effects were really produced, canbe expected
to account for them." -
L
·Eichhorn expressly declares that he leaves the question,
undecided, whether our· three first Evangelists made use
of the Hebrew document, or whether they had only trans-
lations of it•
BEAUSOBRE's BYPOTHESI8.
•" At the head of the fim class [of Scriptures] are to
be placed two gospels, [that, accoryliRg to 1M Hebmtls, and .
THAT ACCORDING TO THE EGYPTIANs.] In my opitiion,
the Gospel according to the Hebrews, is the most ancient
•" nflmt JDe&tre aJe, tete de Ia premiere clll!lll deux EvanP- . . . I.e pial
IIIICI!eD de tout t!lt 8. mon avis, l' •elon let Hilweuz, que lee
pftteaoieot etre l'or.ipaal 8. Mauhieu. D commengoit par ce. motll "'
,..,.f ·Hqrud•.-Gp. Epiplr. .g.,.. 80. • • • ·• . • R)llli'M. pU
lee tncm-.q1li 110111 ea ont co1181l1Tez qu'U ne contenoit 1111e11ne llerelie, •
'!''a qaelquee ciroo-.- pr6a l'Hiltoinl de Notre 8eipear y etoh rapportM D-
i161ement. .
C'eet dalll ctet Enupe qu'on lieoit l'bistoinl de Ia femme llll'prile en adait.e.
1liqltelle au Chap. viii, deS. Jean. Et comme eDe n'etoit pudaua JU-
Iieln exemplaiJM de ce dernier Eftllgile, quelques-llll8 ontcoajecture, 4p•eBe•*
6" pn.e af•Evupe dea Nazare-; et J11116rt6 claua.S. s-. 8i ce1a • ..-
12•
o,, tizcd by Google
1!6 BI:AUIOBaE'I RTPOTHEIIS,
of all. This, the Nazarenes pretended, wa8 the original
from which that of St. Matthew was taken. It began with
these words-" It happened in the day. of Herod."
" It appears from the fragments of it which have been
preserved to-us, that lt contained no heresy; and that with
the exception -of some circumstances, the history of our
Lord, was therein faithfully related. It is in this Gospel
that we read the history of the wom,n taken in· adultery,
which is told in the 8th chapter of St. John ; and since
this was not <lontained iJ?- many copies of this lattergospel,
some persons have conJectured that it wu taken out of
the Gospel of. the Nazatenes, · and inserted in that of
St. John. If this be .true, it is a testimony which the
ancients have rendered to the Gospel of the Nazarenes:
and if this history was originally contained in St. John's
Gospel, it is another proof Of the truth of their gospel.
" That which has been called THE GosPEL Accoanr!fG
TO THE EGYPTIANS, is of the same antiquity. Orige• has
mentioned it ; Clemens had previously quoted
it in several ; and' if second epistle of Clemall
Romanus be authentic, this Gospel would have a testimony
even yet more ancient than that of those two doctors.
There is also, in the I.Abrary of tM Fat'Mrs, a commentary '
on St. Luke, attributed to Titus of Bostra, in which this
c'lllll an temoignap que leB Auc1eua rendental'Evangile d• Nazare-; et IIi
oette hiBtoire a ete origiuaireme11t dana S. Jean, c'lllll11De aatre preave de Ia ,.erne
de lear Evanrie. ·
CeiW. qaeI'oa a nomm6 telon lu Egyptiem llll de Ia meme aatiqliM, Qri.
ghle en a fait lll8Dlion. Cleflletal d'Alexaadrie l'avoit dejii. ane.ue en qaelqael
endroilll. Et •i Ia Seconde Epitre de Clement Romain lllll de lai, cet E-.u;Je
auroit liD temoipar plae aacieD que eelai de Cllll deux DoctearL On a ..-i,
dane Ia Biblioth6qae dllll Pires, liD CoiDIII8Dtaire .ar 8. Lac qu'on aUribae aTie
de Boltrea, daoa lequel cet E-.eque Mmble mettre I'Evanpe Mlon I• f'.cpliaa
rang de ceu que S. Lac a indiquez, et par aaU§rieanura lien. CoiQIDe
I• EIICI'&titee le citoient poar defendre lear Errear 81ll le Marriage, le11 Bel'llll a'•
oat point rejette abaolument lea t6moigoagllll. IJa ont tich6 de IIlii exp{iqur-
1111 18111 orthodoxe ; ce qai montre, que ee·Livre avoit IID810Jte d'autorile, et qu'oa
ne le eoapgoDDOit pll8 meme d'avoir ete •appoe6 par dtlll Heretiqllllll. Qaaai
j'ai coll8ider6, lfU'il etoit regu par I• Ch..etiene d'Eglpte, je n'a pil me defelllhe
cie Ia pena6e, qu'il avoit 6te 6crit par dea Eeaen18D8, qui avoient erii • J.
Cbrilt. La Re!Won de Cllll Geos Iii. tenoient beaacoup de Ia Relicion Cbreu-t.
L'l:vupe dill!fcyptiell8 etoit plein de mystique, de parabol•, d'eniplllll, d'aJlt.
rriee. On attriliite cela al'llllprit de Ia Nation ; pour moi, je l'aUribueroil plii&Ot
l'llllprit dtlll E1Hfliem. On y troavoit dtlll llllllteocel, .qui paroilioieDt favorillr
l'Eneratiame. Or IIlii E.eaien1 vivoient dana Ia contio8DCII, et dane l'abltiMaoto
Ulllll done bien yraiaemblable, que des pei'!IOnnea de cette Secte, Jadaiqae, Ia _.
que J. Cbrilt n'ait jamaia cenaaree, e'attacherent au'Fils de Diea, le niviren; ec
qae;e•etaat retires en f:cpte apres sa mort, i\e y ane HiBioire de •
Vie et de a Doctrine, qai parut en Egypte, et qai fat appe!Ue ca.e de c*a,
l'E'fllllile 1181on 11!11 Mcmicla. Tom. 1, p. 461, 466.
Dig,tizcd by Google
BEAUSOBRE'S ·&YPOTHESJI,
bishop seeins to place the Gospel according to tM
in the rank of those whioh St. Luke had investigated, and
which eonsequently were to his. Since -the En-
eratites (ahmmiotll mot.aks, Therapeuu) quoted it to defend
their error concerning' marriage, the priests have not alto-
gether rejected its testimonies. They have endeavoured
to explain it in aJ,l orthodox sense ; which shows that this
book had a sort of authority, and that they never even
11uspected that it had been foisted in by heretics. Upon
considering (the unqutstionablt fact) that it was received by
the Christians of Egypt, I have not been able to hinder
myself from thinking, that it was written by the Essenes,
who had believed in Jesus Christ. The religion of this
people contained a great deal of the Christian religion.
The Gosptl according to the EGYPTIANs was full of mysticism,
parables, enigmas and allegories : this has been attributed
to the spirit of the nation ; for my part, I impute it rather
to the Esseiii.an cast of character. There may be found
therein sentences which seemed to favour Encratism
(Monkery.) Now, the Essenians lived in continence and
abstinence ; it is, then, very probable, that persons of this
Jewish sect, the one which Jesus Christ never found
fault with, attached themselves to the Son of God, fol-
lowed him, and upon retiring into Egypt after his death,
there, composed a history of his life and doctrine, which
appeared first in Egypt, and which on that account was
called the Gospel accordin; to the EGYPTIANS." /
·Thus far the .most emment, ingenuous and learned of
French divines, .&ausobre.• · Let the reader take with him
the light of this great critic's admission, quoted page 58,
and of .his knowledge of the Essenes and Therapcuts,
established in our seventh chapter,· tl'_lereupon following;
and cast up the results. He will-find that the history of
ages so " long ago betid," nevergave to any fact whatever
a higher degree of certainty,-than the certainty, this
14rrptian Gospel was the DtEGEsis, or ·first type, from
wlllch our four Gospels are mere plagiarisms ; and that it
contained the whole story of Jesus Christ, and the general
rule of faith professed by a set of Egyptian monks, (from
whatever sources those monks themselves had derived it,
• I pmicalarly wi8h the reader to o'-\!rve the 111perior honeety ol Bea0110bre :
· be llu the 11101'111 CCIGI'II&e to u&W the IllUDe of the fiom whicla oar
IOIP8Ia are derived, the GoaPJ:L Acco.aJnlfG To THJ: EGYPTJA!fl, All
ihe-reat, aware of the mighty argument with which it teelllll, -mto say, "TU.
Illy ahape bat ti&Gl, aDd .oar firm lmeea lhoald JUlver tremble !"
Dig,tizcd by Google
118 BISHOP IIARIR't. llYPOTB&III.
which we shall hereafter enquire,) many years, probably
ages,· before the period assigned to the birtp of Christ.
Consequently, the fallacy of toe pretence of the real exist-
ence of such a personage in Palestine, and in or about the
age of the emperor Augustus, is absolutely demonstrated.
BISHOP IIIABsH's RYPOTREIIS,
Bishop Marsh, however, demonstrates that the hypo-
thesis of a t10mmon Hebrew document, is incapable, in
any shape whatever, of explaining the phrenomena; and
labours, as it became a bishop to do, to save the credit of
divine inspiration, upon the perplexed .hypothesis, which
his indefatigable. ingenuity has excogitated, and than
-which perhaps there is none 'more probable, that, " St.
Matthew, St. .Mark, and St. LulU, all thru uwl different ·
copies of some common document, which before any of our
canonical Greek gospels existed, was knowii as.· the
GosPEL ACCORDING TO T.HE HEBREws, or the GosPEL
ACCORDING TO THE TWELVE APOSTLES ; a gospel, of
which the ancients speak with great respect ; or
GosPEL ACCORDING TO THE N or the GosPEL
ACCORDING TO MATTHEW. Th.t materials of which,: OUR
St. .Matthew, who wrote in Hebrew, retained, in tM language
in which he found them, Hebrew,· Chaldee or Syriac : but
&. Mark and St. Lulu, beside their copiu of that origiQ&l
Hebrew, Chaldee, or Syriao document, used a ·Gruk trau-
lation of it, tD/r.ich had bun made before any of the additioM,
which ouR St. Matthew found in his Hebrew copy, W
bun insemd. lAstly, the penon who tramlated St. MatthN'•
Hebrew copy of that original document into Gruk, fre-
quently derived asmtance from the Greek Translation of &.
Mark, where & .. Mark had ·matter in common with St. Mal-
thetD ; that is, to save his own trouble, he copied the
Greek of St. Mark, instead of continuing his own' trane-
de t10t1o, Matthew's transCript : and
tn thole .Placti, but \n thost plaus only, · St. Mark had
no matter in ·common with St; MaUheu, he freqmntly had re-
cotmt, with the same view, to the ready-made Greek of 81.
L,ske'a Goapel. But though the person who translated St.
Matthew's· particular Hebrew copy of the coDUil()n He-
brew document into Greek, did oompare and collate thoee
two other gospels with his own, yet Matthew, Mark and
Luke. had no knotllledge of other'• go1J16la.
•
THE GNOMQLOGUJ:, 119 .
THE DIEQESIB.
This first or earlier draught 'of the life and history of
Christ, is acknowledged by St. Luke, as the basis of the
jrO&Pelstory, and called the DrEGEsu, or Declaration,• that
18, narrative of tlw8e things are most surely belietltd
among us. In the undistinguished manner of representing,
his sense in our English text, it escapes observation, that,
what is rendered A nE'cLARATioN, &c. really is the title
ofthe work, of which this gospel professes no more than
to be "a Jetting forth in order," or more methodical
arrangement.
THE GNOMOLOGUE.
But besides this DiEGEsts, the common huis of the
three .first gospels, ·as of ·many others which ma"y had
181m. in hand, to reduce and arrange into more consistent
order, there existed also a GNOMOLo&uE,t or collection of
precepts, parables, and discourses, which were tupposed
to have been delivered by Christ, at different times, and
on different occasions ; · and this, in addition to the
Diegesis, was a common authority to St. Matthew and
St. Luke,.though it seems to have been unknown to St.
Mark.
Proceeding !iteadily upon our principle avowed in the
motte of this work, which binds us to view all pretences
to any thing out of nature, ·as a surrender of all the stress
that is laid on so weak an argument ; the will
mow at once in what sense he is to understand the
bishop's struggle to bar off the cOnclusions to which he
'baa thus far marshalled our way. Every step which is
here supposed, he telll!f us, is perfectly consistent with the
i:lctrine of inspiration, oot indeed of verbal inspiration,
but with that 10rt of inspiration, in which the Holy Ghott
watched over the sacred. compilers with so suspended a
'-nd, as left them to the .guidance of their own faculties,
while they kept clear of error ; and only interposed, when
without this divine assistance, they would have been in
of falling. "With such an inspiration, (continues
dais Right Reverend expositor of the divine mysteries,)
• Bn..lrr11'•e nollo& em 4 rHrH%IN n•fi>• "'""'
flt¥••ow •• 'II'•• Jta'l'"''.-Lake i, 1. -\" ·.
t Slleh a work lllleiXIS to be deeipated· under varions titles in the Epistles .
tfPnl, u the Form of Bound Worch, the Doctrine, the Worch of our
.l'.ord Jelf.U ChrUt, 4'c."-l Tim. vi. 8. The Doctrine Ac-:ordifllr to God-
lillcu, 4'c.-8ee Byntagma, p 74. , ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
180 Or ST. JOHN'S GOSPEL I;N PARTICULAR.
the opinion that the Evangelists drew a part of their
materials from a written document, 1s perfectly con-
sistent ; for if that document contained any
neous, they had the power of.detecting and correcting 1t."
Such is.a succinct but accurate view of Bishop Marsh's
Dissertation on the Origin and Composition of the Three
First Canonical Gospels, of 249 pages, appended to the
third volume of his translation of Michaelis's Introduction,
Edit. 2, London 1802:
CHAPTER XVII.
01' ST. JOHN's.GOSPEL IN PAB.TICJJI,AB..
ALL ecclesiastical writers seem to have agreed in repre-·
senting the gospel according to St.
. John, as written at
some considerable length of time after the publication of
the three other gospels, and generally with a view -to con-
fute the heresies of the Cerinthians, Sabians, and
which had either previously eXisted, or had risen into a
mischievous notoriety, since the publication of those
gospels. He had read the three .first gospels before he
composed his . own, and appears, says Bishop Marsh,
to have corrected, though in delicate manner, the
accounts given· by his predecessors ; which, if his pre-
decessors were under such an inspiration of the holy
spirit, as was 8Wlicient to keep them clear of error, must
indeed have required the greatest delicacy. The Bishop,
however, has meritedour forgiveness of this absurdity, by
the frankness of his confession, that after all his attempts
to reconcile the contradiction of St. John's account of the
resurrection of Christ with that of Mark and Luke, " he
has not been able to do it, in a manner satisfactory either
· to himself, or to any other impartial inquirer into truth."
He concludes with even more than necessary caution,
that " if it be true that there are passages in St. John's
Gospel, which are at variance with the accounts given by ,
the other Evangelists, we cannot hesitate to give the pre-
ference to St. John, who wrote last, and appears to have
had an excellent memory."• Some persons have need of
excellent memories.
• Vol. 8, p. 816.-Maubew, Mark, ud Luke, it eeelll8, bad bv.t indi1l.'enm&
memories, even with the Holy Gbo.t te jog 'em, 8lld J'ohn'a memory ...
corrected aome of the Holy Ghost's blundera. · ·
0 Sant F..prit ! La voila tea ouvrap. •
Dig,tizcd by Google
ETANION. lSI
DR. IEMLEil'S H'fPOTHESU.
Dr. Semler contends, that St. John wrote before the
other three Evangelists, and the weight·of his authority,
which alone would give respectability to his'criticism,
seems to be seconded by the historical evidence of the
existence of the heretical sects which St. John wrote to
refute, long anterior to any date which Christians have
ascribed to the three first gospels. An evangelist, who
had seen the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, and
wished to second and support their authority, would
hardly have committed himself in the egregious- and irre-
eoncileable contradictions which this gospel presents,
when compared with those : and surely, no one can be
ignorant that the Platonic and Pythagorean
which distinguish and characterize ·this gospel, existed
several ages before the birth of Christ. Nor ought the
strong arguments which the have adduced, in
proof that Plato and Pythagoras themselves were both
members of the Th.erapeutan society, or had derived their
doctrines from the sacred writings of this sect, to be of
little weight with us. The universal delusion of eccle-
siastical history consists in ascribing a later date to earlier
institutions, in representing that was the origination,
as the corruption of Christianity, and in bringing down
the monkish and monastic epocha to any period below
the second or third century, in order to the c\ue of
the whole labyrinth out of sight, and to evade the clear
solution of all the difficulties ofthe inquiry, which presents
itself in the fact that Eusebius has attested, that the
Therapeutan monks were Christians, many ages before
the period assigned to the birth of Christ ; and that the
Diegesis and Gnomologue, from· which the Evangelista
compiled their gospels, were writings which had for ages
constituted the sacred scriptures of those Egyptian vision-
aries.
EVANSON.
The learned Evanson, who, though a Unitarian divine,
professes himself to be a firm believer.in revelation, and
a disciple of Jesus Christ,• marks with triple notes of
admiration his astonishment that the orthodox should
• In hil Worlt OD tbe DilloiWice of tbe Folir Ev..-., publilbed 1791,
p.IU. ·
, Dig,tizcd by Google
18! J'ALSEROOD OJ' GOSPEL·
receive which so flatly contradict each other, as
each equally true. And of the adorable miracle of turn-
ing water into wine, he observes, that coming in so very
exceptionable a form, upon the testimony of so very excep-
tionable an historian, ·it is altogether as unworthy of
belief as the fabuloos Roman Catholic legend of St. Ni- .
cholas's chickens.
BRETSCHNEIDER.
Since Christian tolerance has endured these pregnant
admissions against the claims of divine revelation, the
sceptical world has been enriched by the Probabilia of
Bretschneider, published at Leipsic 1820, in which that
illustrious divine, compatibly with an equally sincere pro-
feBSion of faith in Christianity ; and what is in some views
a much more consideration, compatibly with
keeping his div:imty professorship, and presidency of a
Protestant universif.J ; has shown that the Jesue depicted
in the fourth gospel is wholly out of keeping, and entirely
a different sort of. character from tlae Jesus of Matthew,
Mark and Luke, and that it is utterly impossible that both
descriptions could be true ; that this gospel contains no
testimony of an independent historian, or.of a witneBS to
the things therein reJated, but is derived solely from some
written or unwritten tradition ; and that its author was
neither an inhabitant of Palestine, nor a Jew.•
This, however, is not more than may, from internal
evidence, be argued against the other evangelists; or at
least Matthew and Mark, whose betray so great
an ignorance of the geography, statistics, and even lan-
guage of Judea, as the most illiterate inhabitants of that
country could by no possibility have fallen into--ea:empli
pWJ. .
J'ALSEBOOD OF GOSPEL GEOGRAPHY.
• . t. " lie catM unto tkt Bta.,·of Galilu, through tkt oJ
tkt cOtlltl of Duapolis,".(Mark vii. 81): when there .were
no coasts of Decapolis, nor was the name so much as
known before the reign of the emperor Nero.
!. " He dtparttd ·from Galilu, and catM into tkt coeu11 oj
• 1-, qaem evugeliam, valde div-. Mt a J-
ia prioriblll evansehil do.cripto-nec utraque ct.criptio . liand vera -
protea-Evanpilta, nee ea q111e facta - tradidit, i)llll videt, IIIII e tradilioM
aat aut non ecripta, nee J-. fait.-
Jiret•ehntider in Ordirae .&rgumemonma.
Dig•tizcd by Google
Or GOSPEL GEOGRAPHY. 133
.Twlul, beyond Jordan," (Matt. xix. 1): when the Jordan
itselfwas the eastern boundary of Judea, and there were
no coasts of Judea beyond it.• .
S. " But when he hesrd ihat JlrclielaUII did reign in Judus,
iA the room of his father Herod, At wq.s afraid to go tbither :
rwtvri.lhstanding beinG of God' in a dream, he turned
aftde into the parts of Galilee, and he came afld dwelt in a city
caUtd N.azareth ; that it might be fulfilled, which. was spoken
by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene," (Matt. ii. .22) :
· when-1. It was a son of HerQd who reigned in his stead,
in Galilee as well as in Judea, so that he could not be
securer in one province than in the other ; and when-
!. It was impossible· 'him to have gone from Egypt to
Nazareth, without travelling through the whole extent of
Archelaus's kingdom, or making a peregrination through
the deserts on tbe north and _
east of the Lake Asphaltites,
and the country .of Moab ; and then, · either crossing the
lordan into S,amaria.or the Lake of Gennesareth into
Galilee, and from thence going to the city of Nazareth ;
which is no better geog:taphy, than if one should describe
a person as turning aftde from Cheapside into the parts of
Yorkshire ; and when--8. There were no prophets what-
ever, IJt certainly none that either Jew or Christian would
allow to be prophets, who had prophesied that JesU8
"should be calkd a Naza.rene. ;" and when-4. It is not true
(according to the subsequent history) that Jesus was ever
called a Nazarene ; and when-5. Nazarene . was not
a name derived from any place whatever, but from a
Jed of Egyptian monks, and was none other than of the
same significancy as Essene or Therapeut-a fact which
throws further light on this monkish ; and when-
6. Had. Jesus been a Jew, and der1ved his epitheton
according to Jewish customs from the place of his birth,
he would have been called, not Jesus of Nazareth, but
Jesus of Bethlehem. .
4. After Christ and the Devil had ended their forty days'
familiarity in the wilderness, " He departed into Galilee,
and letwing Nazareth, he ca?J&t and dwelt in Capemaum,
flhith il up<)n the sea-coast in the borders of Zabulon, and ·
Nephth4lim, that it might fulfilled, which was · spoken by
E.aias the prophet, •aying, The land of Zabulon and the
of Ntphthalim, by the way of the beyond Jordan, Galtlet
ofthe.Gentiles," &c. iv. 1.2; 13) ; to Esaias, or
&ll.f inhaQitant of Judea, the beyond must be the
• Evueon, p. 169.
Dig,tizcd
184 . FALSEHOOD OF GOSPEL DATES.
country eaat of the Jordan, (as Gaulonitis, or Gaiilee of
the Gentiles, is well known to have been); whereas C,aper-
naum was a city on the western side of the Lake of Gen-
nesareth, through which the Jordan flows. .
5. " He departed into Galilee, and leatring Nazareth, camt
and dwell at Capernaum," (Matt. iv. 13): as if he imagined
that tpe city Nazareth was not as properly in Galilee as
Capernaum was ; which is much such geographical accu-
racy, as if one should relate the travels of a hero, who
departed into Middlesex, and leaving London, came and
dwelt in Lombard-street.
FALSEHOOD OF GOSPEL DATES.
. 1. The principal indications of .time occurring in the
Gospels. are- . . · .
" .O.nd it came to pass in those thst thtrt wnt 014·
a deet·ee from Cresar ,Augustus, that all the world s}wuld hi
ta:eed ; and this taxing was first made when Cyrenius totU
gooernor of Syria."-Luke ii. 1, .2. · · . ·
It happens however, awkwardly enough.
Ist. That there is no mention in any ancient Roman or
Greek historian, of any general te,xing of people all over
the world, or th,e whole Roll).an empire, in the time of
Augustus, nor of any decree of the emperor for.that pur-
pose: and this is an· event of .such character and magni-
tude; as to exclude even the possibility of the Greek and
Roman historians O!Jlitting to have mentioned it, had it
ever really happened. . · · ·
.2dly. That in those days, that is, "when .feslis was
born, in the days of Herod the king," Judea was not at.
that time a Roman province ; and it is therefore absolutely
impossible that there could have been any such taxing
there, by any such decree, of any such Cresar Augustus.
3dly. That Cyrenius was not Governor ofSyria, till ten
or twelve years after the time assigned as that of the birth
ofChrist.
4thly: That the whole passage is taken from one ofthose
apochryphal gospels which were in full long before
this of St. Luke was written ; some of wh1ch, by leaving
the times .
and seasons in the hand of God, repre-
' sented that this taxing was first tnade when King Solomon
was reigning in all his glory, so that Pontius Pilate and
AI were contemporary, which did well enough before the
Dig•tizcd by Google
rALSEHOOD OF GOSPEL PHRASEOLOGY. 185
wicked and sceptical art pf criticism ·began to undennine
the pillars offaith. . ·
2. " 'I'here · were at that .Yeaaon, some that told
him of the Galikam, whose blood Pilate had mingled WI&
tl&tir aacrificu."-Luke xiii. 1.
No historian, Jewish, Greek or Roman, has made the
least allusion to this bloody work ; which it is next to
impossible that they.could have to do, had it really
happened. · ·
· Such an act wa.S entirely out of character ; for Pilate WBB •
a Pagan and a $8crificer himself, and would !:\ever have
considered idolatry as a crime in any body. We have the
10lution of the difficulty at. once, by admitting the proba-
bility, that as the name of King Herod was substituted iD
the_lat'er or more orderly ru:-d methodical transcripts of the
Diegesis, for that of King Solomon, so the act of good
King Josiah (2 Kings xxiii.) has here been fathered upon ·
J>ontius Pilate. ·
FALSEHOOD OF GOSPEL STATISTICS.
1. .Bnf&(l$ and Caiaphas being the high-priests (Luke iii.
2) ; when anyperson acquainted with the history and polity
ofthe Jews;.must have known that there never was but
one high-priest at a time, any more than among ourselves
there is never but one Archbishop of Canterbury.
2. Caiaphas, whiCh ioas · the high-priest that same year,
(John viii. 18,) being high-.priest that year, he prophesied
(John xi. 50) ; when no Jew could have been ignorant
that the high-priest's office was not annual, but for life,
and that prophesying was no privilege nor part of that
office.
8.··" &arch cmtl look, for out of ' Galilu arisetlt. no pro-
phtt," (John vii. 52) ; when the most distinguished of the
Jewish prophets, Nahum and Jonah, were both Galileans.
FALSEHOOD OF GOSPEL PHRASEOLOGY.
" They brought the ass and the colt, and ptJt on them their
' and set him tlureon," (Matt. xxi. 7) ; i. e. like Mr.
Ducrow, .at Astley's Theatre, a-straddle across them both.
This translator of Matthew's suppOsed original Hebrew
copy of the Diegesis, being so grossly ignorant of the
common pleonasm of the Hebrew language, as to mistake
o;9; ized byGoogle
186 ULTIMATE RESULT. ·
its ordinary emphatic way of indicating a ptJrlitultw
object by a repetition of the word ; as, an au, that
uh.ich111as the 1on," or foal, or had been born of an ase; for
two of the species.ll' •
2. ".IJ.nd he said unto them, Go VJtJ8h in the pool oj
Siloam, 111hich. is by interpretation Sent," (John .xix. 7) ;f
which happens to be an interjn-etation which no Jewish
'writer ·could poSsibly have given : SILOAM signifying, not
Sent, but the place of the sending forth of waters, ·that is,
the sluice( to say-nothing of the absurdity of representing
the pool as sent to the man, instead of the man being sent
to the pool : or of the absurdity of supposing that one.who
was blind, could see his way thither. Sure, here seems
to have been a greater chance of the poor man's getting
hie baptism than his conversion. This text has so puzzlea
the commentators, that they have endeavoured to. get the
words " 111hich is by interpretation, Sent," considered as
a mere marginal note ;.but the authority of the.
attests them to be a part of the text itself. Whatever,
then, be the credit due to the three first evangelists, the '
fourth may well be considered as neither better nor worse,
and must tltand or fall with them.
..
CHAPTER XVIII.
ULTI!IUTE RESULT.
Sucu erron as we have exemplified, and i1111.umerable
other such there are, in every one of the four gospels, can
be accounted for on no suppositions congruous with the
idea of their having been written either by any such per-
• Similar pleoD81111111, not without coMiderable beaaty, ar&-
" God ill not a mll!l, tbat II& should die, nor the eon of maD, that be ebollld re-
pent."-Numb. :uiii. 19. ·
,., Shall rise up 88 a great lion, and lift up him8elf 88 a young lion!'-N111Db.
uiii. 21.
"Lord, wbatis man, tbat tbouart mindful of him, or the Son of man, thaf;tbov.
10 reprdeet him ?"-Pealm. · , ,
t Cbap. m. 7. Ubi.auctor vocem falao interpretatv.rJM(
et ex errore nr!.nu mimu, pronlintiavil nt!.nu Emiuio, ICil. aq1181'11Dl Ejuamolli
error vero, nee Joanui Apoetolo, neque alii euidam eeriptori Jact.o
aeeidere potuiaset. Codieum auetoritate genuina jlldieanda. eunt illta
Yerba.-Bretlellndder.
Dig,tizcd by Google
ULTIMATE RESULT. 187
sons, at any such time, or under any such circumstances,
as have been generally assumed for them. But we may
challenge the whole world's history to furnish, from a
period of such remote antiquity, a coincidence ef circum-
stantial evidence to prove any fact whatever, so strong,
so and so entirely. responsive to all the
claims of the phenomena, as the evidence here adduced,
that the first types of the Gospel..story sprang from the
Egyptian monks, and constituted the substance of. the
.mystical romance, which they had modified fro.m the Pagan
mythology, in conformity to their professed and acknow-
ledged Eclectic Philosophy, and imposed for antecedent
ages on the ecclesiastical colonies, which had migrated
from the mother church of Alexandria. ·
Thus, after Europe and all Christian communities have .
been for so many ages led to believe that in the four gos-
pels they possessed ·the best translations· that could be
derived, in their several langtiages, from the original
inspired text of immediate disciples and contemporaries
of Christ ; it is .at length admitted, that mankind have
been and are egregiously dece.ived. 1. It is admitted,
that these gospels were not written b:y the persons to
whom they are ascribed ; 2. That Mattnew, Mark, Luke
· and John, were only translators or copyists of previously
existing documents ; 3. Composed by we know not tolwm ;
4. We know not hoto; 5. We know not tolatre; 6. We
know not tohen ; '7. And containing we know ,not vhst.
The very first assertion in the title-page of om: New Tes- ·
tament, in stating that it is translated from the original
Greek, involves a/allacy ; since it is absolutely certain
that the Greek, from which our ti'anslations were
was well nigh as far from being original, as the tramlations
themselves, and it is absolutely uncertain what the original ·
was. ·
Irenmus indeed, the disciple of Polycarp, which Poly.;
carp is said to have eoriversed with St. John, and who ,
himself lived and wrote in the middle of the second een-
'tury, is the first of all the Fathers who mentions the four ·
evangelists by name. But if ·this testimony were as cer- ·
tainly unexceptionable,·.as it certainly is not-the being
able to trace these scriptures so high or even higher than
the second century, would be no relief to the difficulties of
the evidence ; since the same testimony attests the ante-
cedent prevalence of the heresies of the Me.rcionites, Ebion-
18•
Dig,tizcd by Google
138 ULTIMATE RESULT.
ites and Valentinians, which wereto be refuted out ofthese
gospels, and which, as they were undoubtedly heresies from
Christian doctrine, carry us as much too far beyond the
mark, as it might have been feared that we should fall
short·of it ; and to prove, that M those heresies, so
these gospels wh1ch refuted them, existed bejM"e the time
ascribed to the birth of Christ. All the indications ofdate
contained. in those gospels themselves,· are manifestly
erroneous. · It is universally known and admitted, that we
have no history, nor Christian writing whatever besides,
that so much as purports to ·come within the limits of the
first century. At any rate, the predicament of being too
soon on the stage, is as fatal to the COlloaruities of the
story, as being too late. . . ·
"The history of the New Testament," says Dr. Lard-
ner, "is attended with many difficulties."-Vol. 1. p. 186•
.What could he mean by difficultiu, but appearancu of
not being true '! What could he mean by many difficuJties,
but that such appearancefi! are not one, two, or a dozen,
but meet us in every page ? And whatmeans the labour
of his cumbrous volumes, but so much labour of so great
a man, laid out.'on the sophistical businessofmakingwhat
he virtually admjts to be falsehood, appear to be
truth.· .
All these geographical, chronological, political, and
philological perplexities, are such as never could have
crossed the path of straight-forward narrative ; but are
moh exactly as would occur to Eclectic plagiaries,
in the ·business of aetting fortk in onkr a tale of the then
olden time ; fitting new names and new scenery to the
characters and catastrophes of an antiquated plot ; and
endeavouring to put an appearance of history and reality
upon the creations of fictions and romance.
That this Eclectic philosophy of the Alexandrine monks
is the true parent of their Diegesis, of which the
that have come down to us, are the legitimate issue,..is
the demonstration that will meet us now a_t every stage of
that comparison of. the. Pagan and Christian theofogy,
which our investigation chalhmgee from us.
Dig•tizcd by Google
PAGAN AND CHRIStiAN l'HEQLOGT. 189
CHAPTER XIX.
.IESEMBLANCE.S OJ' THE PAGAN AND CHRISTIAN THE•
OLOGY-AUGUltY AND BlSHOPS-A!SCULAPlUB, JESUS
CHRIST-
--HERCULES, _JESUS . CH.RJST-ADONJS, .JESUS
CHRIST.
No conviction of our reason could be Conceived to be
more absolute and conclusive, than that which assur-es u8
of the utter impossibility of there being any common fea-
.tures of· resemblance between divine truth and human
imposture. We are not conscious of our own existence
with a ·greater degree .of certainty, than that by which we
know, that a religion which hath "God for its author, hap-
piness for its end, and truth without.any mixture of error
for its matter," could have no likeness to the foolish and
impotent devices of weak and wicked men. The existence
of such a likeness or resemblance between any two re-
.P-gions whatever, however superior the ,one might be to
'the other, would· itself constitute' the surest possible
demonstration that.both of them were false. In a religion,
then, which purports to be from God, we have a right to
expect internal evidences of its divinity, and a character
as infinitely superior to any devices of men-as infinite
wisdom must be superior fo human ignorance. ·
Having, then, obtained the consent ofall parties, that the
Christian Saviour, if any such person ever lived at all,
must have lived and conversed with ·men in the era of
Augustus, that is, eighteen years ago, and that
all the facts and doctrines of his religion are qontained in
the book called the New. Testament• ; this great and im-
portant becomes capable ofbeing put to the test-
from which, nothing that is honest would shrink-from
which nothing that is true, can have any thing to fear.-
Nothing which can be shown to have been in existence
before the alleged time of the birth of Christ, nothing
which came existence long after " his glorious resur-
rection and ascension," can -
have any claim to be taken
for Christianity. If before thedate assigned to Christianity,
and in regions and countries where a religion under that
name was not known, we shall find all the ideas which
that religion involves, pre-existent, and already familiar to
the apprehensions_of men ; there is no alternative but that
• We ay not-the Old Te11amenl, though _
the Pible is a term that compre-
lleadl both ; the Old Ttl&ament 1ri1l never be TiDdicatecl, and oapt not to be
auacked by anyman. · . ..
Dig•lizqo by Google
140 PA.GJ.N J.:MD CRilllt'UJf THEOLOGY.
the must be endured. To attempt to reilist that
conclusion, is to resist truthitself; to afraid to do jus-
tice to the arguments that may lead to that conclusion, is
to surrender it, without resistance.
TB&·PAGANS TUB CBRIIITU.NS
1. Apologised for all the ap-· 1. Use the same ar-
parent· absurdities of their sy• gument in defence of their sys-
tem, by pleading that nothing in tem, ohly denying the benefit
it was to be understood accord- of it, to their advena-
iog to the gross and revolting ries.
sense of the letter, but that the whole was to be explained
conformably to a mystical allegorical meaning which con-
veyed the most sublime truths. .
2. "For those · whopreside . 2. Go.d also hath made us
over the holy Scriptures, phi- able ininisters.of the New Tes-
losophise over them, and ex- tament, not of the letter, but of
pound their literal sense by the spirit. (2 Corinth. 3, 6.)-
allegory."--.Eusebiut, COfll!erMng Which things are an allegory•.
lite ,.;.em. {
4 Gal. 24.)-St. Paul, cotteer'Jt-
wag the Ckriltian priuU.
CICBBO.
Concet'llin& the Pepa Aagma.
3. "No order oftrue religion
passes over the law concerning
the description of priests.
4. ''For some have been in-
stituted for the business of paci-
fying the Gods. .
6. " To preside at sacred cer-
emonies•.
6.. Others to ,interpret the
predictions ofthe prophet. ·
7. "Not of the many, lest
the number should be infinite.
THE NEW TESTAMENT.
Concerning the Cbristian BilboJ&
3. And God hath set some in
the church.-first apostles, sec-
ondarily prophets, thirdly teach-
ers.-1 Corinth. xii. 28.
4. 0 Lord spare thy people,
and be not angry with us for
ever.-.LitJSrgy.•
. 5. Let the prophets speak two
or three, and Jet the others
judge.-1 Corinth. xiv. 29.
6. And let one interpret.-1
Corinth. xiv. 27.
7. Let it be by two, or at the
most by three,. and that by
course.-1 Corinth. xiv. 27.
8. " But that none beside the 8. Because it is given unto
College should understand those. you (the College of Apostles)
predictions which haclbeen pub- to know the mysteries of the
licly recognized. · kingdom of heaven, but to
them it is not given.-Matt.
:i.iii. 11. .
Dig,tizcd by G.oogIe
PJ.G.&.N AKD CHRISTIAN THJ:OLOGr. 141
CICBllO,
9. "For augury, 9rthepower
of foretelling future events, is
the greatest and most excellent
in the republic, and na-
turo.Tly allied to authOrity.
10. "Nor do lthus think, be-
cause I am an augur myself;
but because it is absolutely ne-
cessary for us to think so.
11. " For if the question be
of legal right, what is greater
than ·the power to put away
from the highest
their right of holding counsels,
and issuing decrees :,.or to abo-
lisb them when holden ? What
more awful, than for ·any thing
undertaken, to be done away,
itbut one augur hath said other-
wise.
NBW TESTAMENT.
9. For greater is be that pro-
phesietb, than he that speaketla
with tongues. · Desire spiritual
gifts, but rather that ye mey
prophecy. He that prophe-
sietb; speaketh unto men to
edification and ezhortatioo, and
comfort.-J Corinth. xW. S.
·10. Neither have I written
these things, that it should be so
done unto me.-1 Corinth. ix.
15;-lnaamuch as I am the apos-
tles of the Gentiles, I magnify
mine office.-llom. xi. IS.
11. Dare any of you, having
a matter against another, go. to
law before the unjust, and not
before .the saints. Koow ye
not that we_shall judge angels ?
How much more things that
pertain to this life ?-1 Corinth.
vi. S.
If he neglect to hear the
church, let him be unto thee u
an heathen man, and a publican.
-Matt. xviii. J'7. •
12. "What more magnificent 12. Verily I say unto you,.
than to be able to decree, that whtdsoever ye shall bind on
the governors should earth, shall be bound in heaven ;
resign their magistracy ? What and whatsoever ye shall loose on
more religious than to give or ·earth, shall be loosed in heav-
not to give the right of treating en.-Matt. xvii. 18.
or transacting business. witlt the people.? What than to
annul·a law if it hath not been duly passed,-and for noth-
ing that hatli been done by the government, either at home
or abroad, to be by anr one, without their au-
thority Legitnu, lib. ii. ,2.' .
• No wooder, then, tbat lllch a power wu not allowed to be·held in eepara.- .
&ion &om the imperial dignity ilaelt: The Jewilh M-iah, or Christ, united 1n Ilia
own penon the eeveral offices of prophet, prieet, and kina. The fiprt!ll of Rom-
llhas, the foander of Rome, him as clad io tbe trabea, a robe of ltate,
which implied an ecclelilutical as well as a aecalar dipity. The lituw, or atatf
of in hill hand, ill still retained as the croaier of out Christian bishops.
"This latter mark of distinction (the episcopal croaier) asnally attends the repre-
eeDtations of the heads of Julius Cre&ar in old gems and medals, in lignification
that he was high-priest and king, by the111me right as Romulus had been." Belr1
Pantheon in loco quo. ADgQ!tus, Vespuian, V:ems, &c. are in like manner ae-
GGmpuied with tbe insignia of anpry. So 111cred were theBe holy order•, that
none who had once been a member of the llllcred celler, coald ever be decrad-
Dig,uzcd by Google
•
,
J4J PJ.GA.J\ .AND CBBJSTIA.l'f THEOLOGY.
PHILO. NIIW TEST.liiiiNT.
JS. "In addition to these cir- 13. To_allthe saints in Christ
eUJDIItalices, Philo describes the ·Jesus which are at Philippi with
order of preferment among- those the bishope apd deacou.-
who upire to ecclesiastical min- 1 Philip. i. .
istrations, and the offices of the For they that have used the
deacou, ud the pre-eminency office of a deacon weD, pur-
above aU of the bishop."-Su chiU!e to themselves a good de-
claap. gree. .. ·
If a man desire the office of a
bisho,p! he a good work.
>--1 TlDlothy w. 13• . · .
ROYAL PRIESTS.
Among the ancient Greeks, the dignity of the priesthood
was esteemed so great in of their cities; and espe-
. cially at Athens, as to be joined with that of the civil ma-
gistrate. Thus .!lnius, in Virgil, was king of Delos, and
priest of Apollo.• In Egypt, the kings were all priests ;
and if any one who was not of the royal family, usurped
the kingdom, he was obliged to be consecrated to the
priesthood, before he could ascend the throne. At Spar-
ta, the kings, immediately upon their promotion, took upon
them the two priesthoods of the heavenly, and the Lace-
demonian Jupiter; and,all the sacrifices for the safety of
the commonwealth, were offered by them only.
BUBO&DilUTJil CLERGY.
Besides these royal priests, there were pthers taken from
the body of the people, and consecrated to the 11ervice of
religion. These were all accounted the ministers of the
gods, and by them commissioned to dispense their favour
to mankind. Whoever was admitted to this holy office,
was obliged to be of the most exemplary and virtuous
character. They were required to be upright in mind and
p\U'e in heart and life, as well as perfect (crq>tlu,) in body :
they were to live chastely and temperately, abstaining
from those pleasures which were considered innocent in
other men. . After their admission into holy orders,
though marriage was not altogether forbidden, they were
obliged and expected to preserve the most rigid chastity.
eel: the commi&aion ofthe p!&telt enemlity was not heldcompetent to effect their
ituk/etUible II8IIOtity ofcharaeter, or to forfeit their title of THi RJtvJ:aJ:l'ID;
whieb their deaeendanta lltill retain, in a never-interrupted qf inberitaMe
6om theirPagan ancelltol'l. ·
• ADiu, Rex idem hominam, Pha!bique Sacerd011.-'- Virg. .4.En. 8, v. 80.
PAGAN AND CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY;
They endeavoured to weaken or overcome "all the
sinful lusts of the flesh," by drinking the juice of hem-
look, and by strewing the herb agnus caatus, or clwtt lamb
under their bed clothes, which was believed to poeseas re-
frigerating qualities.
THE PRIESTS OF CYBELE
Who held the dignity qf 'J"Motokos, Deipara, or Mother
of God, which has since beentransferredto the Virgin Ma-
ry, 80 conscientiously cut themselves off from the faculty·
of sinful sensations, as to deserve the commendation of
Christ himself-Matt; xix. 12 ; and to be imitatedin 80 un-
equivocal a proofof sincere devotion, by the most learned
and distillguished of Christian bishops, Origen, Melito,
&.c.
PARASITES .OR DOMESTIC CHAPLAINS•
. Another holy order of priests, was that.of the Parasiti,
or Parasites, whose office was to gather from the husband..
men, the corn that was to be set aside for the services of
the ministry. It was at last an office of great honour ;
the Parasites being by the ancient laws reckoned among
the chief magistrates. In every village of the· Athenians,
they maintained these priests at the public expeflse ; but
afterwards, to ease the commonwealth of this burden, the
wealthier sort were obliged to entertain them at their own
tables, whence the word parasite, in later times, has been
put for a flatterer, who, for the sake of a dinner., conforms
to every one's humour. This holy order of Parasites, ia
continued in. our Christian" Church, in'precisely the same
character and function, under the less invidious name of
domestic ch.aplains, who, hanging abOut theestablishment
of princes and nobles, generally to worm them-
selves into the most lucrative ecclesiastical benefices up.
on the well-lmown economy. :
"Non milnra lilt eutem nili pleu eraon.
CONVER-SION FROM PA.G,!NUM TO CHiliSTIANITT, BROUGHT
ABOUT ENTIRELY BY A TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
the conversion of Constantine to the
Christian faith, the title, the ensigns; and the preroga-
• TM leech will not clrOp tiem your llkiD 1ill it il fqD ofblood.-H.,..aee.
o;9; ized byGoogle
144 CONVERSION.
tives of sovereign pontiff' were accepted without hesita-
tion, by seven sucessive Christian emperors. . Gratian
was the first who refused the pontifical robe*, and threw
otf' the badges of Paganism; for though he retained the ·
title of Sovereign Pontiff, he performed no_part of its funo-
tions.f From motives no doubt of the most disinterested
piety, "this emperor seized the lands and endowments
which had been allotted to maintain the priests and sacri-
fices of the ancient Paganism, and appropriated them to
his own A. n. 382.
We have yet extant, and happily I have here on my
table, the celebrated oration delivered by Julius Finnicius
Maternus,·to the Emperors Constantius and Constans,
the sons and successors of Constantine the ; calling
on those holy Emperors, to seize all the remaining proper-
ty of the professors of Paganism, which his father had
spared, and thus by reducing them to beggary, to starve
them into salvation. ' . .
"Take away,.take away, in perfect security,
this diSinterested Christian orator.) · 0! most holy empe-
rors, take away all the ornaments of their temples. Let
the fire of the mint, or the flames of the mines, melt down
their gods. Seize upon all their wealthy endowments,
and turn them to your own.use and § And 0 !
most saOred emperors, it is absolutely necessary for you
to revenge and punish this evil. You are commanded by
the law of the 'Most·High God, to persecute all sorts.of
idolatry with the utmost severity : hear and. commend to
.your own sacred understandings1 what God himself com-
mands. He commands you not to spare your son, or
your brothe:r ; he bids you plunge the avenging knife
even. into the heart of your wife that sleeps in your
·• Gibbon, vol. S, p. 499.
t Bell'a Paath. vol. 1, p. 19. t Lardner, vol. 4, p. 4115.
§ Tollite, tollite eeeuri, sacratissimi Imperatores, omameata templorom. Deee
iltos, aut moaetle ignis, aut metallorom coquat flamma. Doaaria uoivena ad util-
i&atem vesttam, domioiamque tramrfer&e, (p. 69.) ·.Sed et vobis, Sacratiaaimi Im-
• peratoree, ad viadiCRDdam et puaiendam lioe malum necessitas imperatur, etlloc
vobis Dei sammi lege pl'8!cipitur, lit vestra idolatrial facinas oamifariam
'penequatur. Audite et commendate IIIIDCtis eensibas vestris quid de illto faciaore
Deas jabeat. Neo filio Jubet parci, DeC fratri, et per ama&am conjugem qum 4llt
in siau tao, Jladiam vindacem ducit ; amicum quoque IIUblimi sevenlate peneqai-
tur, et ad diiCerpenda corpora, omais populus armatur.
etiam civi&atibus, ei in isto fuennt faeinore depreheDIIB, decemuntur aeidia. Ji1i..
ericordiae IAIIB vobis Sacratilllimi Imperatores, Deas nmmua pi'IBIIIia pollicetar.- ·
Facite itaque 4pod jabet, e&mplete qaod pneeipit, (p. 68.) De EnoN
Pro£.a.l. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
CONVERSION. l45
bosom ; to persecute your dearest friend with a sublime
severity, and to arm your whole people theae
sacrilegious and tear them limb from hmb. Yea!
even whole cities, if you should find this guilt in them,
must be out oft'. 0! most holy emperors! God promises
you the rewards of his mercy, upon condition of your thus
acting. Do therefore what he commands-complete what
be prescribes."
Nothing can be more orthodox and truly Christian than
this ontion. It presents us a faithful picture of the genius
and character of primitive Christianity. The reader wiiJ
perhaps think he has enough of it. The Orator of the
Areopagus, however he might have transgressed the laws
of his country, transgressed not the fair sense of historic
fact and license -of oratorical. figuration, when he said,
"Astonished Paganism grew pale, when she saw'the blood-
stained banner of the cross, and from her innocent hand,
the flowery chaplets of the chaste Diana, and of the hos-
pitable Jupiter, down dropt, and bloody treason triumphed
·over them!"
We have, of the same age, a beautiful contrast to this
spiritual oration of Firmicius, in an epistle of the Pagan
orator, LIBANius, in which he discovers at the same time,
what the tempers and dispositions of a Pagan were,
towards those who left the faith of their ancestors, and
embraced the new-fangled doctrines of Christianity.
" OaroN, (writes he), was my friend, when he was in
prosperity, and now he is in aftliction, I have the saine
disposition towards him. If he thinks differently from us,
concerning the deity, he hurts himself, being deceived;
but it is not fit ·that his friends should therefore look upon
him as an enemy."* Alas! since one who had once been
a minister of the but is now prisoner for his con·
scientious opposition to it, fell into aflliction and differ-
ence of opinion, concerning the deity, it was not only
forgotten· that he had once been a friend, but that he bad
ever been a feHow creature, a brother, or a son.t
.. We have also still extant, the petition of SrMHA.CHOs,
·the high priest of Paganism, which he presented to the
Emperors Valentinian, Theodosius and Arcadius, and for
• having delivered which, the Emperor Theodosius com·
m.anded the reverend orator to descend from the pulpit,
and go immediately into exile-(Oakham!) ·
•Epiade '710, Lardnero, citante in loco quo.
tSeeons-- Chriliiaoa,l8da l.eueria '''.the LioD,tt Yol.l,
14 .
Dig,tizcd by Google
14()
But impious and unreasonable .af! it was held to .be in
Christian ears, it was not than of a with the
extract which I here :-
" Does not the religion of the Romans come under the
protection of the By what name shall we
call an alienation of rights, which no laws o.r circum-
stances of things ever justified? Freed men receive lega-
cies, nor are even slaves deprived of the privilege of
receiving what is left to them by wilt-they are only the
noble Vestals, and the attendants on the sacred rites upon
which the public welfare depends, who· are deprived of the
privilege of receiving estates legally bequeathed to them.
The Treasury detains the lands which were given to the
Vestals and their officers by our dying progenitors. Do
but consult your own generous minds, and you will not
think that those things belong to the public, which you
have already appropriated to the use· of others. If lengt}\
of time be of weight in matters of religion, surely we
oughtto preserve that faith which has subsisted for so
many ages, and to follow our parents, who have so happily
followed theirs. We ask for no other state ofreligion than
that which secured the empire to your blessed Father,
and gave him the happiness of a legitimate issue to succeed
him. That blessed prince now looks down from heaven,
and beholds the tears of the priests,·a.nd considers the
breach of their privileges as a reflection upon himself."•
The Holy Father and Bishop St. ..t\Jnbrose, strenuously
opposed this petition, and ingeniously argued from a text
of scripture, which served to carry the point in his days,
but which since has become apocryphal, and consequently
is no longer to be found; but this it was, "all the earth
belo.ngeth unto the righteous,t but to the infidels not one
penny," (obelus). . · .
Lardner is anx,ious to vindicate the disinterestedness
of St. Ambrose, who opposed, himself to this unreasonable
remonstrance of"these poor blind benighted Pagans;" and
. puts in proof, the letter written to the Emperor Eugenius
in the year 892, in which St. Ambrose declares,that "those
revenues had not been taken away by his advice, only he
had advised that when opce they were ·taken away, they
should not be given back again." That's Christian all
ov.er!. as much as to say, "I'll have nothing to do with
th1evmg1 but I'll go your halves!"
• Ci&ante ill loco, _ . .
t " 7'M riglateot41 :"' who could that be but th& orthodox l
Dig,tizcd by Google
CONVERSION. 14'7
The reader has only to tura his eye to our ·table of the
Ecclesiastical Revenues at this day, and he may solve aa
he shall please, the important question-whether, if these
revenues were taken away from the o!wrch, and trans-
ferred to the professors of as false a religion as evet'
was on earth, our churchmen would not run after the
revenues, and leave Christianity to the fate of Paganism.
It is a remarkable fact, that in the jutis, or whole
body of RoiPan law, notwithstanding all the dreadful
stories of persecutions and martyrdom, which Christiana
relate that they have endured ff'om the Pagan magistrates,
there never was on record any law whatever, that had
been enacted against Christians-while there were and
have been the most sanguinary laws enacted for the
prosecution and eternal persecution of unbelievers.
By a law of the Emperors Valentinius and Theodosius,
whoever had been known to have apostatised from the
Christian religion, was debarred from the right of be-
queathing property by 16ill-nor was the Pagan religion
effectually suppressed, till the profession of it was prohib-
ited under the penalty of death. Thousands suffered that
penalty, whom we are not allowed to consider as martyrs.
It is well known, that the most holy and truly Christian
Emperor Theodosius, put in practice the advice of Julius
Firmicius, upon the heterodox citizens of Thessalonica, to·
the letter. He put the whole city to the sword, and" ut·
terly destl'oyed every thing that breathed, even as the
Lord God of Israel commanded."-An example which waa
followed in like manner, on the ever memorable day of
St. Bartholomew, August 24, 157!, when seventythousand
Protestants, subjects of the most Christian Charles IX.,
were butchered throughout France, at the instigation of
his pious mother, Catherine de Medicis. Mr. Higgins, a
sincere believer, thus concludes his beautiful work:----:
" Look at Ireland, look at Spain, in short, look e11ery 111here,
and youwill see the priests reeking with gore. They have
toRtJemd, and are populous and happy nations
into deserts, and have made our beautiful world into a
alaughter.:house, drenched with blood and.tears."-Celtic
Dniids, p. 299.
l Dig,tizcd by G OSle
.
'
...
148 .&ICULAPiu.-.JUUI CBI.II'I'.
CHAPTER XX•
.&ICULAPIUS--.II:SUI OBI.IIT•
.&BCULAPIUB. JEIUI CHRIST.
Ma. ADDISON's versification Ma. PoPE's versification of
oftheprophecies which fore- the prophecies which fore-
told the life and actions of told the life and actions of
..tEsculapiUll, from the Meta- Jesus Christ, from the pro-
morphoses of Ovid. phecies of Isaiah.
Oace, .. the - - infaDt abe II1IJ'o
veyed, Ye •ympbl or Bolyma bep the -.L
The pd - kindled ill the ravmc 0 tboa my voice iaapire, '
' That toiiCbed Jaiah'• hallowell ·np.
Aad thai abe aHeled bel- prophetic with fire,
tale, Rapt into fatare lima the bani be-
" Hail, creat phyticiua of the world ! pa-
all hail. A virpn eoiiCeive; a virp bear •
Hail michty iafant, who in yearw to 80D.
eome, Swift8y the ud rile th' expect.
Shalt heal die II&Do111, ud defraud the eel mom-
tomb! 0 .me to Iicht, a111J1icioa babe be
SWift be thy pwth, thy triunphl liD- bonl.
eoDfiDecl, He from thick filallhall puqe the 'ril-·
Make kiDgdoiBI thicker, Uld iDcreue 1
m&Dkind. ua ray, . .
ADd OD the lli&hd- eyebd poar the
Tby dariDg art shall aDimate the dead, day :
AJid draw the tlnmder OD thy gllihy 'Tis be, tb' obltmctecl paths of 10111111
llead; llhall clear,
TbeD lhalt thou die, bat from .the dark AM bid DeW m111io abarm th' 1111f'oJd..
'ricteriou, aDd be twice a ·Tbe ku.q,the lame hil cndiDia.
cod-" forego,
Reason at· once ·rejects all ADd leap emJtillc like the boDIII1illc:
ideas of prophecy, as being ree;
• EIJO ubi faticlicol ccmcepit lllelde " And therewasoneAnna,
furores '8. prophetess,the
IDcaluitqae Deo, quem clauam pectore Phanuel, ofthe tribe ofAser.
· habebat
Atpicit iafaatem. Totiqae alder She was of a great age, and
orbi had lived with a husband
Cresce puer dixit, se mortalia sev
. en y.ea.rs fro!ll her virgin-
Corp'::'debeballt : ADimu tilti reel- ity. And she was a widow
dere ademptu of about four-score and four
Fu erit. Idque l8lllel DisIndigoaDtibu years, which departed not
P0.:7::e hoc iteram 8ammi probi- from the temple, but served
bebere aviti . God with fastings and pray-
Eque Deo corpaa fiel euDp; De• ers night and day. And she
que coming in at that instant,
Qai eras, et bil taa fata gave thanks likewise unto
OM Met. w. 2, lira. 840. the Lord, and spake of
o;9; ized byGoogk
.ESCUL.lPIUS--.JESUS CHRIST. 149
thf!.most childish and foolish
conceit that could possibly
cross the mind; a knowledge
of future events being no ·
more possible to the human
mind, than to fly in the air is
to the body. We may be told
sometimes of an extraordi-
nary guess, as we may of a
wonderful jump; but neither
flight nor prophecy are at-
tn'butes of man-and no ra-
tional man will consider the
pretence to auch a faculty,
in any other light, than as a
certain evidence of impos-
ture, by whomsoever or in
what cause soever, ad-
vanced.•
to all them that looked for
redemption in Israel, Luke
ii. 36." .
This is one ·of the many
passages which the Unitari-
an editors or the improved
version wish to.have reject-
ed, assignin"' as one among
their severalreasons against
it, that " though found in all
manuscripts and versions
now extant, it was intro-
duced with a view to ele-
vate the· crucified Jesus to
the dignity of the heroes
and demigods ofthe heathen
"-p. 1.21.·
The worship of Esculapius was first established in
E!l'Ypt, the fruitful parent of all varieties of superstition.
Tlie name is derived from the Oriental li:mguages. Euse-
bius speaks of an AsClepios, or JEsculapius, an Egyptian,
and a famous physician. Ite is well known as the God of
the art of healing, and .his Egyptian pr Phrenician origin,
leads us irresistibly to associate his name and character
with· that of the ancient Therapeuts, or Society of Heal-
established in the vicinity of Alexandria, whose sa-
cred writings Eusebius has ventured to acknowledger
were the first types of our four gospels. The miracles of
healing and of raising the dead, recorded in those scrip-
tures, are exactly such as these superstitious quacks
wvuld be likely to ascribe to the founder of their fra-
.
.-Ar.r more specific predictwn than any Ulat theology can pretend, occurs in
dlaiiWea of Seneca, which aeelllll in the age of Nero; to have foretold the futnre
6eietery of America, by Chrietopher Columbns, an event which oc:curred not
til1480 yein after the publication of the prophecy. Thia it ia-
" Venient annie 8a!CUia seria,
. Quibua Oceanua vincula rernm.
Laxet, et ingens pateat tellua
Tethy1111ne novos detegat orbes
Nee ait tenia Ultima Thule."
., Tbe timea will come in late y8!1J'S, when ocean may re1u the chain ofthings,
..a ...- coatinent may open ; the - may uncover new worlds, and Thule,
-liD be lbe lu& or lands." --;- '
14. •
, . ' '
Dig,tizcd by Google
UiO, .I:ICUL.Al'IUI.
· " Being honoured as a god in Phrenicia and Egypt, his
·worship passed into Greece, and was established first ai
Epidaurus, a city of Peloponnesus, bordering on the sea;
where probably some colonies first settled: a eircuDU!tap.ce
sufficient to induce the Greeks to give out that this god
was a native of Greece."-Bell's Pantheon, p. 27. ·
Among the Greeks, it was believed that the god Apollo
himself had JEsculapius as his son by a voice
from the oracle (Ibid.): . and it is a striking coincidence of
fact, if it be no- more than a coincidence, that we find the .
Christian Father, Eusebius,.attempting to- prove the divin- ·
ity of Jesus Christ, from an answer given by the same
oracle;* while the text of the QQBpel of St. Matthew .
iii. 17, written certainly muoh later than those answers,
runs, " Lo, a "oice from heaven, sayitag, Tlt.is is my belotled son, ·
in whom I am well plea8ed." By the mother side, JEscu-
lapius was the. son of Coronis, who had received the
embraces of God, but for whom, unfortunately, the wor-
shippers of l}er son have forgotten to claim the honour
of perpetual virginity. To conceal her pregnancy from
her parents, she went to Epidaurus, and was there de-
livered of a son, whom she exposed u.pon the Mount o(
Myrtles;t when Aristhenes,:j: the goatherd,§ in search of
a goat and a dog missing from his fold, discovered the
child, whom he 'would have carried to his home, had he
not, in approaching to lift him up, perceived his head en-·
circled with fiery rays,!! which made him to believe the
child to be divine. The voice of fame soon published
the .birth of a miraculous jnfant; upon which the people
flocked from all quarten to behold this heaven-born
child.f ·
It was believed that " 1Esculapiu8 was' so expert ·in
medicine, as not only to CU\'e the sick, but ·even to raise
the dead." Ovid says he did this by Hyppolitlis (and
Julius says the same of Tyndarus); that Pluto cited him
before the tribunal of Jupiter, and complained that .his
• Dem; Evan. quoied, traDalated andcommented oo, in the aatbor'• Syo..,_
ma;p. 116. ,
t Mount of Myrtz-why oot Mount of OliTtl?
*.4riathmel-why not J01eph ?
§ not Shepherd? .
nThUI all Chriatiau pamtelll have depicted tlle infant 18111&
{
Veiled in ftesb, the Godhead, u.-
.- Heaem-bom ehild.- Hail th' incarnate Deity!
Eqaally applicable to &seu- Mild he lays his clory by,
lapiUI u to Jesus, is the divine Bom that man no more mipt die ;
. clogerel awwxed, Bom to raise the 10111 of earth ;
. Bom to sin Ulem MeODd birda I
•
.&ICUL.\PlVI. 151
•empire was consicferabty and in danger of be-
coming desolate, from the cures performed by lEscula-
pius; so that Jupiter, in wrath, slew him with a th1mder•
bolt. Within a short time after his death, he.was deified,
and received divine honours. His worship '¥as ttr@t es·
tablished at Epidaurus, and soon after propagated through·
out aU Greece. The cock• and serpent were especially
to him, and his divinity was recognized and
honoured in the last words of the dying Socrates, " Re-
member that we owe a cock to .tEsculapius." At a time
when the Romans were infested with the plague, having
consulted their sacred books, they learned that, in order
to be delivered from it, they .were to go in quest of
lEsculapius at Epidawvs; accordingly, an embassy was
appointed of ten senators, at the head of whom was
Quintus Ogulnius; and the worship of .tEsculapius was
established at Rome A. u. c. 46.2, that is, Before Christ,288.
But the most remarkable coincidence is, that the worship·
of this god continued with scarcely diminished splendour,
even for several hundred years after the establishment of
, _Christianity. We have the best and most rationally at·
tested account of a cure brought about by the influence of
, imagination in connection with his name, as late as the
year 485 A. D. . ·
Marinus, a scholar of the philosopher Proclus; A. D. 485,
in his life of his master, says, " I might relate very,many
theurgic operations of this blessed man: one, out of innu-
merable, I shall mention; and it is wonderful to hear.-
Asclipigenia, daughter of Archiades and Plutarcha, and
wife of Theagenes, to whom we are much indebted, when
she was yet but a young maiden, and lived with her
parents, was seized with a grievous distemper, incurable
by the physicians. All help from the physicians failing,
as in other cases, so now in this also; her father applied
to the sheet-anchor, that is, to the philosopher, as 1m good
8amour,t earnestly entreatffig him to pray for his. daughter,
whoee coOOition was not unknown to him. He therefore,
• The IIC!l'p8lll • prime ageat ill the ltOry or hnlllllll redemption; and the eoek
rally bears a very IDlportallt character ill the G01pel, in nbuJUn& Peter for cun-
iastU:..e_wearincds· • _._._.. b tit! f ..__al • • • b
...,.., goo aowur, wuloa wu t e eo apuw, 11 g.ven y
'-bias, in the month or hie fabricated pereoaar,Abprns, to the no 1- fabri-
CIIed Jeeu:
.tl.flraeo' Blea""' l'!tl•aorrw• urG:t•""'"'Pm•n• ,,.
1. c. 18, lit. D. Ecel. "Abprne, toparch of Ed_, to
the JOod Saviov, who hath IAOIU forth in JeruaJem.-.creet! ,
o•g,tizcd by Google
U! .ESCUL&.Pitrs.
taking with him 'Pericles of Lydia, who was also a
losopher and worthy of that name,* went to the temple of
'lEsculapius, intending to pray for the sick young,woman
to the god; for the city (Athens) was at that time blessed
in him, and still enjoyed the undemolished temple of THE
SAvioUR. But while he was praying 'according to the
ancient form,t a sudden change appeared in the damsel,
and she iinmediately became convalescent ; for THE
SAvioUR, as' being God, easily healed her."
With respect to the miracles ascribed to 1Esculapius,
and ({Ontinuing to be performed f<;>r .so many ages by the
efficacy of faith ih his namt. and in answer to prayers
offered up in his temple; the power and influence of ima·
gination, in producing changes· in the animal economy to
an indefinite extent, is well known to physicians; and,
without intending auy injurious imposture, ·the most be-
nevolent and intelligent medical men at this day avail
of the patient's superstition, to aid and second
the operations of medicine. A strongly excited eipecta·
tion of relief will often produce such an improved tone ilf
muscular action, and such a more vigorous flow of the
animal spirits, as will be sufficient to throw off the obstruc·
tions in which the disease originated, and thus effect many
extraordinary and otherwise unaccountable cures. Amed·
ical friend.once succeeded in curing a poor mau of chronio
rheumatism, after he had followed the prescriptions ofthe
ablest physicians without receiving the least benefit, by :
working upon his·imagination to make sure of receiving a
eure, by taking seven tea-spoonfuls of the decoction of a
brickbat that should be found in a churchyard, the brickbat
to be boiled for seven hours, in seven quarts of water; the
essential couditions of the miracle being that its efficacy '
was not to be doubkd; and the whole process to be kept au
inviolable secret.. Tliis prescription he to trans- :
late out of the sp1der-leg text of a Greek foho. The cure
was perfect. The primitive Christians were content never' 1
to call in question the miracles pretended by their Pagan ·
• I preserve eo much or the oriplal text u il -tial to the proor or the !Jill.
ter before us:-
.. TO TQI V:II"IC! Tq' JCIJi Yllf • 1
.,wvxu 'J;ItTII 'I ToTI Jti/U ".l''" oTt To Til ,
GVT8 TC!011"01', :II"IC!& lfltt,ITO, ...
eaaTomz •r•r••To. Pua rllq ci QIIJTI ia I
Lardner, vol. 4, p, 410. · . ,
t The ancient form, ronitan; " Oar Father, which art in heaveu, 1
be thy name; thy kingdom come, tlly will be done oa earth, u it il •
·beaveo," &c. · ·
Dig<tizcd by Google
.£SC.LAPitJt,
adversaries, ep could get their own similar preten-
sions recognised. Their argument was one that was well
contrived to evade all possibility of being determined: the
Pagan miracles were wrought by the power of dmmons,
while their's were to be ascribed to the True God. ,
, Jqstin Martyr, in his Apology for the Christian Religion,
addressed to the emperor Hadrian, seems to seek rather
an excuse for the Christian miracles, than to consider
them as resting on any-grounds of evidence:-" As to our
Jesus curing lame, and the paralytic, and such as were
cripples from their birth, this is little more than what you
say of your JEsculapius."""
"In_the performance of their miracles," says Dr. Con-
vera Middleton, "the primitive Christians were always
charged with fraud and imposture by their adversaries.
Lucian tells us, that whenever any crtfty juggler, expert
in his trade, and who knew how to make a right use of
things, went over to the Christians, he was sure to grow
rich immediately, by making a prey of their simplicity ;
and Celsus represents all the Christian wonder-workers as
mere vagabonds and oommon cheats,-who rambled about
to play their tricks at fairs and markets, not in the circles
of the wiser and better sort, (for among such they never
ventured to appear), but whenever they observed·a set of
raw young fellows, slaves or fools, there they took care to
intrude themselves, and to diWay their arts."-Fru
Inquiry, p. 144.
The reader has only to consult the 1st and .2d chapters
·Of the 1st Epistle to the Corinthians, and he will see that·
this principle of playing off upon the credulity of the
weakest and most ignorant of mankind, is expressly
avowed by the great Apostle of the Gentiles--" Christ crv-
eijitd," to the Jew, "a Btumbling block," as contrary to all
evidence of fact; "and to the Greelu, fr,olishnus," as revolt-
ing to reason. The principal result, however, of this re-
semblance is, the evidence it affords that the terms or
epithets of " Oua SAvioua"-the &wiour being God, were
the usual designations of the god JEsculapius ;t and
that miracles of healing, and resurrection from the dead,
• See the"Cbapter on Jlllltia Martyr, in this Dn:GII:III. · .
t Both Baeebua, and Jupiter also, was distinpiabed by the epithet Oua B.a.T•
IO'Oll. Sir John MIU'Ibam had a coin of the 'l"'lllllions on which was the Uwcrip-
tiaa .Ztn'lfo', of HaacuLII:I THII: 8AvJoua.-Bryant'• .l11not. voL
2, p. 406. 195. The name of Chrilt, !18 we have -n p. 7,) wu
ridicalollll!y CODIJDOn, and extended even to I!IVery individual Of the Jewish race:-
. --TJ"Vl lJ.'ln 'nc ·
" 2'011CA fiOI "'1 Clwilte, Mid do "'Y/orlvM-telkre no Aarwt."-PRim n. 14.
Dig,tizcd by Google
154.
were the evidence of his divinity, for ages before si\nilar
pretences were advanced for Jesus of Nazareth. "Strabo
informs us, that the temples of JEsculapius were constant-
ly filled with the· sick, imploring the help ·of Goo; and
that they had tables hanging around them, in which all
the miraculous cures were described. There is a remark-
·able fragment of one of these tables still extant, and
exhibited by Gruter in his coUection, as it was found in
the ruins of JEsculapius's temple, in the· island of the
Tyber in Rome; which gives an account of two blind men
restored to sight by .lEsculapius, in the open view, and
with the loud acclamations of the people acknowledging
the manifest p'ower of the- Free Inquiry,
p. 78. Could such a document be produced to authen-
ticate any one df the miracles ascribed to Jesus, what
would become of the cause of infidelity?
__._
CHAPTER XXI.
· HERCULES-JESUS CHRIST.
OR Alcides, was the son of God .by Alcmena, wife of Am-
phytrion, king of Thebes, and is said to have been bom
in that city, 1.280 years before the Christian era. HER· 1
CULEs was pointed o1,1t by the ancients as their great ex-
emplar of virtue. It was affirmed by some, that he
voluntarily engaged in as great labours. The whole. of
his life appears to have been devoted to the good of man-
kind. " The writers who treat of his adventures, and of ·
the antiquities relating to them," says .Mr. Spence, "have
fenerally fallen into a great deal of confusion, so far, that
scarcely know any one of them that has perfectly well
settled which were his twelve labours. To. avoid falling
into the same confusion, one may divide all his adventures
into three classes. In the 6.rst class, I should place such
as are previous to his twelve celebrated labours;
. " In the second, those twelve labours themselves·, which
he was obliged to do by the fatality of his birth; ·
. "And)n the third, axiy supernumerary exploits.
'' His first exploit was that of strangling two serpents
sent to destroy him in his cradle. This he seems to have
performed, according to some accounts of it, when he was
not above half an hour old. But what is t5till more extra•
ordinary is, that there are exploits supposed to have been
performed by Hercules, even before Alcmena brought him
mto the world." ·
Digitized by Google
•
165
Thus .far Spence, in his Pol'!lf'Uiis, dial. 9, p. t16.
Adding in a note, " This, perhaps, is one of the most
mysterious .points in all the mythology of the ancients.
Though Hercules was born not long before the Trojan •
.war, they make him assist the gods in conquering the
rebel giants (Virgil's JEneid, 8, line 298); and some of
them talk of an oracle or tradition in heaven, that the
gods could never conquer them, without the assistance of
a man."
Upon which, the orthodox Parkhurst, in his Hebrew
Lexicon,* asks, with indignation, " Can any man seriously
that so excellent a scholar as Mr: Spence was;
could not easily have accounted for what he represents as
being so very mysterious 9 Will not 1 Pet. i. 20,t compared
with Hag..ii. 7,+ clear the whole difficulty, only recollect-
ing that Hercules might be the name of several mere men,
as well as the title of the. fulure Saviour 'J And did not the
truth here glare so strongly on our author's eyes, that he
was afraid to trust his reader with it in the text, and so
put it into a note for fear it should spoil his jests."
" It is known," continues Parkhurst, " that by
Hercules,, in the physical of the heathens, was
meant the Sun, or solar light, and his twelve famous labours
r have been referred to the sun's passingthrough the twelve
zodiacal and this, perhaps, not without some founda-
tion. But the labours of Hercules seem to have had a
still higher view, and to have been originally designed as
emblematic memorials of what the real &m of God and
Saviour of tht UJorld was to do and suffer .for our sakes- '
Nvcr- naa'Ta "OI'I;w•·-" Bringing all lenitives of our dia-
wu," as the Orphic Hymn speaks of Hercules."§
Thus we see.that Christian divines, according to their
cue or drift, either endeavour to conceal or else boast of the
resemblance between the Christian and Pagan mythology.
At one time, or with one set of Christian-evidence writers,
the very idea of naming Christ and Hercules together is
held as the most frightful impiety ; heaven and hell are
I,
I • P. 520.
t Who tDIU foreordained before the fiiiUUlatUm of the world, but
u.a• manife•t •n these ltUt timea for you. ·
t .lind the Deaire of all nations ah'all eOtlle.
§ See Parklnlrst'a Hebrew Lexicon, under the word D'f,l.'l) PaoTJCCTOaa, from
tile 100t l,V, Strength, or V'1g011r, p. 520. Bat what ill this wholelltraia of..,_
1 a-t, bat tbe opeu aad avowed EcLECTIC Pbil0110phy, and a vinaal admjwjop
dlat and-
Ptplilm are porfectlyB)'IIOI}YBIOIIIIl '
o;9; ized byGoos_le
•
•
156 HERCULES.
not further asunder: with another 'set, equalJy orthodox,
but driving at a differet\t tact of argument, it is Satan
himself who hath blinded our eyes, to prevent the l.ight of
truth shining-upon us, ifwe cannot see that Hercules and
Jesus Christ are one and the same identical personage;•
that the labours of the·one were the miracles of the other;
and that the most mysterious and abstruse doctrines of 1
the NewTestament were but the realization of the emblem-
atical.types of the ancient Paganism. SoN oF Gon, and
SAvro-
uR oF THE woRLD, were forms of expression with
which the ear of heathenism was familiar, for ages before
it was pretended that the son of Jehovah and Mary had a
better claim to be addressed by those titles, than tho son
of Jupiter and Alcmene. ·
There was, however, a consistency in the conduct ofthe
worshippers of the earlier claimant, and a conformity of
their practice to their profession, which we shall look for
in vain among the adorers of the later aspirant. Hercules
was expressly and professedly worshipped by the ancient
Latins, under the name of Drvus Frnrus; that is, the
guarantee or protector of faith promised or. sworn. •They
had a custom of calling this deity to witness, by a sort of
oath conceived in these terms-" Me Dius Fidius!" that is,
So htlp me tlit god Fidius! or Hercules. But with all due
respect to the high authority I quote, rather than incur
the censure of the divines of the Hutchinsonian school, of
the light that upon I should take the
ortgmal form of the anctent oath to have been " .Me Deus
Filius!'' the filling up of which-formulary, with the words
ita adjuvet, the sense complete, & htlp t7te God tht
Son!" The form of oath used in our universities at this
day is, " Ita mt Deus adjtl()et et 8ancta ejus etmngelio."'-
& htlp me God and his holy Goapels! The trirning the word
filius into Fidius, and inventing a god, or an epitheton of
that name, seems like a struggle to evade the evidentsense,
especially since we know that, in the hurried and gabbling ·
way in wh_
ich the ancient oath was administered, the
whole sentence was pronounced but as two wo.rds, Medius
Fidius; and certainly it would be ridiculous to make a
God, or the epithet of a God, of the·word Medius: and •
why might not Hercules be honoured with the title of
. God the eon, to djstinguish him from Jupiter, or God the
Father, as by his human nature standing ip a nearer
: relation to 1p.ankind than the paternal deity, and-the fitter
i to be appealed to as a mediator in hwnan traneaotione;
Dig,tizcd by Google
15'7
wa:sknown and recognized under
the exactly 81milar deslgilation of the Son of God, and the
8tzWNr of tl.t . ,
It is,indeed, one of the most curious extravagancies of
all that is extravagant in Christian fiiith and practice, that
the cUstom of administering oaths should be retained in
Christian courts of judicature,.in spite of the express and
reiterated proh#iliona of swearing contained by luckless
oversight in .the very book on which the oath is taken.
Our Judge Blackstone, well aware _
how ill the Christian
text wouTd serve his purpose, passes over the words of
Jesus Christ, " I say unto you, ·B'IDear not at all," (Matt. v.
34); and those of his .boly Apostle St. Jllmes, " But ab0t1e
till tkmgs, my bretl&rm, iwar not," (James v. 12); and quotes
the text of tne P.agan, .
" Who deni.es that t.,_ese opinion's are useful, when he
observes how llUI.DY things are certified- oath ; of
what. safety .are the religious obligations of covenants,
how 01any persons are restr$ed from crime by the fear
of divine punishment,.,and how holy is the society of citi·
zeDShip, from _the of the presence of the immortal
gods, as well with the judges as with the witnesses?"•
" It has indeed been remarked by the most eminent
writers of the Roman history, that the superstition of that
people had a great influence in .keeping them in subordi·
nation and It is more particularly observed,
that in no other na#on was the solemn obligation of an
oath treated with such respect, .and fulfilled with such a
religious circumspection, and such an inviolable fiqelity."
Such -is the subStance of a note of·a Christian translator
of Mosheim, in opposition to a remark of his text, the
Roman superstition:was defective in this point.-(Cent. 4,
part 1.)
Anote to similar effect occurs in the Christian Evan·
lOU's work on the Dissona.JWe of the.four Gospels, p. 81.
"I wu many .years ago -assured by .an intimate friend,
and an. intelligent worthy man, who had traded largely
both in the northern parts of Africa and in many different
oountries of Europe, that he was never once deceived in
in the honqur and integrity of a Mahomedan;
but.that through the perfidy and dishonesty of some of
Dig,tizcd by Google
158
those he deJ'lt with, he had been defrauded·and injured in
e·very· nation of professed Christians."• · · · :
The gaoler of the prison in which I am at the :time of
writing this, in the seventh nionth of an unjust captivity
incurred by the conscientious and honourable maintenance
of my sip.cere convictions, informs me, that during'hisown
long residence in Malta, and constant course of commercial
transactions with the professors.of the Mohamedan creed,
he never heard of an unpaid debt, or a violated obligation; .
and that it is an usual mode of traffic in the market-towns
throughout Turkey, for the farmers and huxters .to leave
their fowls, eggs and butter, &c. in baskets, with the prices
affixed, and to return in the evening in perfect security of
finding the article as they left it, or the exact price de-
posited in the place C?f just so much of it as had found a
purchaser.
"Were a wise man," says Bishop Kidder, "to choose I
his religion by the livers of those who profess it; pem,p& :
Christianity-would be the last religion he would choose." I
Christianity, then, has no pretence to -evidence on the !
ficore.of any moral effects it has produced in the world•
..__._
CHAPTER XXII.
ADONIS-JESUS CHRIST.
TliE Jews had a superstition of not uttering the incom-
municable name of God, l"li1'-that is, ·Yahou, or Jackh.ott.; I
or, as it frequently oocurs, in one syllable, rr--Jao, or
which, with reverence than reason, is pro-
nounced .Ttslt.! as the tetragrammaton1 -or word of four
. letters, which at this day adorns our Christian temples is
·ealled JeltotxJh.
From this divine name "'' says Parkhurat, the ancient '
Greeks had their Irt in their invocations of the .gods, more
• TI!ere are • .Quaket-• amouc them ; and there can be. no villauy where
Quaker• are not.
t The neartll¢ approub to the exact proDU11Ciation or tU •acred word will
. be pro4ueed by e.peodiuc die aetion oraK the OIP.II or articalatioa, and
' only tlut cenv.Wn heave or the laryu, bf which the bniDcbel v-Ia diacbarai
the aceamulated phlegm; it is enaoeiated with the mOlt eloquent iD tf.e
act of oomiting, andJlelilaJII 011 this account baa called tlie smu#eruk
, JWile.-CoiiiRilt Rabbi Ben Hel'IChel, and hill heard! The God JJ:HOV'AII,
the most hideo1111 or the whole mytholo&Y, WU well knoWB to the Gealile.;
be Wll lbe Jo:«N or the ancient Ta.eanJ, aJid LatiBised iato the J...rv• eldle
aom... :. . ' ,·. .. ' .,,
· '
Dig,·izcd by Google
..
ADOKJS•. 159
pal"ticularly of the god Apollo, i. e. T1&e Light. And hence
these two letters, forming the name Jah, written after the
Oriental manner, from right to left, were ins.cn"bed over
the great door of the temple of Apollo at Delphi.
n· is several times joined with the name rnn·, which
seems to indicate that they are distinct names for the
same deity, and not the one the· ·mere abbreviation of
the ·other. ·'The rays of light or glory within a circle or
ring of which the tetragrammaton, Ol' four-lettered word,
is exhibited in our Christian temples, are a demonstration
that the same deity is intended by the Christian Jehovah
as by the Pagan·Jah (that ia, Apollo); whol!le name of
two letters was in like manner encircled with rays of
glory. . .
The Pagans, indeed, seem·more rigidly to have adhered
to the text or injunctions of those Syrio-:Phrenician odes
which have been consecrated by Christian piety, under the
name of the Psalms of David, and which formed a material
1 part of their idolatrous liturgies, than their Christian pla- ,
¢arists who have retained the use of them in a never-
mterrupted from their times.
We read in the original, the hundred times re-
peated commands, n'1 r7'm-Ellell-lu-jah ! praile ye Jack !
i1' nM r::ro riJn-Btholtl! blus ye Jaek!
'f* •:i n',_p1 ,Oilf rT.:I n'.:I'W.:I ''lc ,J:lir TlDI cmtf7 'I"M1
. -non a"n.Jr', 'J rnn' O'IM
Sing ye to the gods! Chant ye hw name ! .EHlt him.uh.o rideiA
in the h.ea?Jens, by hi& name Jack, and leap for juy before hit
face! For the Lord hath a long nose, and Ail. mercy tndurtth for
eM-! .
It is admitted, however, on all hands, that the proper
1 pl'Onunciation of- the tetragrammaton which we call Je-
hovah, and its synonyme Jah, is entirely lost. Nor can it
! be denied, that the Hebrew points ordinatily annexed to
the consonants of those words, are not the natural points
belonging thereto, nor indicative of pronunciation; but are
the vowel points belonging to the words Anol'U.I and Elo-
him,-to warn the reader, that instead of the word JE-
HOVAH, which the Jews were forbidden to pronounce,. and ·
the pronunciation of which had been long unknown to
them, they are always to read Adonai, or Adonis.•
• Bee the O;!furd Encyclopmdia, 1IDCier the bead .8ioot.tl; and my own far-
ther investipdollll of this cariou eabject, in my Syntapla of lbe E•idencee of
the Chriltian Religion, pablilhed diuiag the llll'lier month. of my lltill continuing
160 .A.OOIUI.
Hence we find, that frequently where the oommon
·printed copies read·.,,at, many of Dr. Kennicott's codices
have l'11l'l'· And hence, says Dr. Parkhurst, whose ortho-
doxy of Christian.faith admits not a the
idol Jldonis had his name.• · · · ·
The reader will, I hope, do himself the justiceto observe,
that throughout this DrEGESis, no merely fanciful or oon·
jectural interpretations are admitted, and no new lights
struck out from ingenious etymologies: he is here pre-
sented with the calm dispastdonate evidence of faet, and
when those facts are most pregnant'of conclusions adverse
to Christianity, they are invBl'iably adduced in the words
and ori the authority of Christians themselves, whose dis-
interestedness, at least, in yielding admissions of this
character, is no more to be questioned, than their leanrlng
and piety to be surp_
assed. ·
The great source of difficulty and mistake in tracing the
identity of the parent' figment through the multifarious
forms of the ancient idolatry, seems to arise from the
change of epithets and names, while yet it is but one and
the-same deity and demi-god who is meant under a hun-
dred designations. Thus, the names under which the
Sun has been the real and only intended object of divine .
worship, have been as various and as many as the nations
of the earth on which his light has shone. And as va· 1
rious are the allegories and fictions of his passing through
·the zodiacal sign of the Virgin, which, of COU1'8e, would
remain a virgin still ; his descending into the lower parts ·
of the earth; his risiilg again from the deiJ,d; his ascend.
ing into heaven, his opening the kingdom of heaven
all believers; his casting his bright beams of thro
twelve, months, or Apostles, one of whom (l?ebruary
Judas) lost a day, and by trtJugt'Uiion (or skipp]' over
"fell, that he might 80 -to hU oum plaee," (Acts i. 25 "
preaching the acceptable year of the Lord," (Luke iv. 9 . - B
all which metaphorical personifications, were typ' ed th
natural history-or circumstances observable in the Sun'so
progreBB through the twelve months which constitute th11
natural year. · · - ,
The Jews in vain endeavour to die«uise the ·fact, that
tluy also were Sun worshippers. We nnd, {rom their o ·
sacred books, that their Solomon, after having built
imprisonment, tbr the eolllllientiou .,.,.... or tbe- aad
which that relipro il fCI1IDIIN. p. 96. .
• Parkbant'• Hebrew Lesieon, 1Uider the baed :l, 1.
Dig,tizcd by Google
.A.DwtJs.·
.• 181
temple to Jehovah, '' did alto an high place for W::lW
0/aemosh (that is, the SuN), the abomination qf .Moab, i• the
hill that is btfort, Jerwalem," (I Kings, xi. I) ; and so late
as to the reign of Josiah, successive kings_of Judah ':had
horUs to the Sun ; and the chariots of til, Sun verc
at the enurmg in of the lwwe ofthe Lord."-2 Kings, xxii. 11.
The prophet Malachi expressly speaks of Ohrilt, under
the same unaltered name of Chemosh," the abomination
of the Moabites-.,p,1 L1ore.--Chapter iii, verse 4, or
iv. 2. · Which beirig, by our evangelical reformers, "ef"Y
eorwmitntly trall@lated the Sun of Righteoamus,t of course
could refer to nothing else than Jel!lus Chriat, and so
conceals the idolatry, while it conveys the piety.
The deity, however, :under. his name AnoNIS,
without any change but that of the various pronouns,
suffices to indicate my Adon, our Adon, &c. is the undis-
guised idol who is addTessed innumerable times through·
out the book of Psalms, under that name, and to whose
honour, in eommon with that of they were com-
posed and dedicated. The llOth Psalm, of which the
first verse rendered into English, is, " The Lord said unto
my lHrd, Sit thoo· at my right hAnd, until I malu thine tnt•
miu thy foottttool,"• should have been rendered, " Yalaou
unto Jldonis." The two idob"
were worshipped in the
same house ofthe Lord, which was at Jerusalem : Yahou,
or Jaek, sat on the lid of a box, ridiculously called the
ihmterion, or mercy-«at; while Adonis seems to have occu-
pied the veetibule, or Mttri•g-in. 9f the house of the L9rd.
The rest of the Psalm is a dialogue, in which Jao, or Jack,
proposes terms of alliance between himself and Adonis,
and engages to join him in the slaughter of their enemies.
The preference of the Jews for Adonis, who was distin-
guished for his personal beauty, above the cloven footed
and long..n.osed Jehovah :t: has induced them to this day,
not only to read the name Adon, wherever it occurs, but
entirely to banish the recollection of Jao altogether.
They substitute the name Adon in every instance where
oor translatol"8 have put Jehovah, or the Lord ; so that in
·tb.e reading of those ·
to whom these lively oracles were
· : tnn pM nvtt ,.v :1w •rn6 n1n' o.u •
.tTbe Hebrew bu no adjectives :·Stm of RighttotllfUII iatheir idiom for abe
.
f See the plate of him in ParkhiiiBt, and his conriocing argameniB in proof'
dllt tbe beast wid! tOur f'aes and four wings, etaDding like a eoek upon a heli-
.._, on one leg, .. must be 1'8ferred to Jehovah only," uder the hf.ad :J"IJ
1404.
o;9; ized byGoogle
•••• A.DOIIJI,
committed, it itt not ·Jehovllh, .but. Phc;enicillli deity
Jldonil, whois the God of the Old Testament. · .
·Jehovah then, had more than oauae enoUAil· for jealousy
against the encroachments of Adonis, anO. .in ·one InQ8t
striking instance, the worship of this idel, under his: name
Tdn.uz, is denounced as. ail ·atrocious •.
Then he brought me to the door of the gl.lk of the "Uwd'a howe,
111hich toaB lotDarda tht. north, and btltold tlurt ldt· t110mtn
for Thmmu.-(Ezekiel viii. 14.) . · . · . . . ·
Here .1trofM interprets Tammuz, ·by ..!JJlonia, who he
observes, is in Hebrew and Syriac, Adoais. ·
" I fuid myself (says th.e pious author of the
Greek and Hebrew Lexicons,) to refer Tammuz, ae well
as the Greek ·alid Roman Herculu, to that class·of idols,
which was originally designed to .represent the.promieed
Saviour, the Desire of all natioiul. His other name·, Jldo-
nis, almost the very Hebrew •.mtt or our Lord, a well-
known title of Christ."
Such are the-words of the ingenuous, 1noet leamed, and 1
orthodox Parkhurst, who ·proceeds to exhibit this resem-
blance of- Adonis and Christ, subjoining,- with ·acknow-
ledgem{mts to his authorities SpMrman and Gotlt.yn, a
passage froD.l Juliut .liirmiciu, which in my earlier writings 1
I was eontent to quote, as he had·. done, at IIUOfld..laattd.
The retirement and leisure howevel' which my Christian
pel"Secutors have forced upon me, and the attentions of
'my unbelieving friends, have enabled me to study the very
. rare and curious original itself. ·It is an oration or address
of Julius Finniciue delivered to the Emperors Conatana
. and Constantius ; the object of which was to induce thoee
pious princes to seize the property of their Pagan subjects,
and apply it to Christian uses-than which, of oou.rae, no-
thing could have been more ortho'do:t. After forty-
five pages of abuse heaped oh tlle ancient Pagaae for
their forms of idolatry, in which by-a most
curious mystical interpretation of their oeremonies, he
discovers Christ to have been represented by them all,-
he adds, " • Let us propose another symbol, that by aa
effort of cogitation, their wiekednese may be revealed, of
which wemust relate the whole process in order that it
may be manifest to all1 that the law of the divine appoint-
•
. • Aliwd etiam •ymbolum propoaam-, ut eoD&mine co1itatioDis, Melera
revelentar ; cujus totus erdo dicend1111 est, ut aplld QJDuel 00811141t di<riaa dil-
poeitionia legem, pervena Diaboli imitatioae corruptam. Nocte quadam eimala-
crum ia lectica mpinum et per IIUJDili'08 digestil fletibua piaDpv.
, I
Dig,tizcd by Google
ment hath. comtpted b.y imita-
tion. On a - certain- night ·(while-_
the .ceremony .of the
.. or religious rites·in ·.Gf an
mtage out -up9n a bed, ·and 1n dolafw
ditties.. After .they.had satiated themselve.B with fictitioUI
lamentations, light .'W'!f.S: ))ro-ught in ; . tlien .the mouths of
all the mourners were .anointed by the ·priest, upon
the priast, with a g6ntJe whispered-..,.
. · Tnist eaintt, God·nllltOred; ·
. · . ye,- in your. R,m Lord ;
· For th paips which he endu.red
. . . . Our procured. : .
" Upon which sorrow was turned into joy, and the
was taken, as it we.re o·ut ofits These
latter words, though their sense is implied, have
no direct authority in the original, btit seem to be a _scho-
lium of Mr. Spearman. Firmicius, in his tide of eloquence,
leaves his conclusion elliptical ; .arid breaks away into in-
dignant objurgation of the priest. who officiated in those
heathen mysteries,· which, he admitted, resembled the
Christian sacrament in honour of the death and resurrec-
tion of Jesus·.· Christ, so closely, that there no
difference between them, except•. that no 8ufficient proof
had been given to the world qf the resurrection of Adonis,
and no divine oracle had borne witness to his resurrec-
tion, nor had he shown himself alive after ·his death to
those who were concerned to have assurance of the fact,
that they might believe. The divine oracle (be it ob-
served,) which had borne witness to the resurrection of
Christ, but which it seems had. vouchsafed no such
honourable testimony to the resurrection of Adonis,
none other than the answer of the God Apollo, at Delphos ;
which this author derives 'from Porphyry's books on the
Philosophy qf Oracles; and which has conde-
scended to as furnishing one of the most
Deiade CIIIIJI se fieta lam•tatione lllltiaverint, lumen infertur. Tunc a Sacerdo&e
olllllium qui flebant, fauces UDgUDtur, quibus perunctill, sacerdos Iento murunue
WIIUrat:
8aqeun ,-a 8ta
. yeq •• no•..,. 11-'I@•CL
Literally, " Trult ye co1J11111111icanta i the God having been saved, there aball be to
• out of llllivati\)11." Godwyn, who seeUJ8 not to have diacovered the
metre of the original, rende111 it, " Trmt ye m Qod,for out of pains, ralfltr
tiara il tome tlllto •·"
• Dei tui mo111 nota est, vita non comparet ; nee de resurrectione eju divinum
lliqaando respondit oraculum, nee bominibus se pGI!t mortem nt Bibi crederetur,
Olleodit, nulla hujus operis documenta prorniait, nee se hoc factunun -
dentibas monscn:rit exempliii.-De Errtn:e prof. Relig. p. 46.
Dig,tized by 00gle
164 .A.DOKtl.
proofs that could be adduced from the admiseion of an U.
versary of the resurrection of Christ.•
"But thou at least," says Eusebius, "listen to thine
own Gods, to thy oracular deities themseJvee, who have
borne witness, and ascribed to our Saviour, not impos-
ture, but piety and wisdom, and ascent into heaven."
Quoted in tht author's Synlagma, p. 116. This was vastly
obliging and liberal of the God Apollo; only, it happeDI
awkwardly enough, that the whole work, (consisting of
several books) ascribed to Porphyry, in which this and
other.admissions equally honourable to the evidences of
the Christian religion, are made, was not written by Por- ·
phyry, but is altogether the pious forgery of Ghristian
hands ; who have kindly fathered the ·great.philosopher
with admissions, which as he would certainly never have
made them himself, they have very charitably rp.ade for
him . . .
.
But not alone the very name Adon, or Adonai, nor the
particular manner in which that God was worshipped, oc-
curring as frequently as the name Jehovah, and by the
Jews themselves constantly maintained to be the sense of
· that name, and proper to be used rather than, and instead '
of it; but the distinctive attributes of Adonis, the pecu-
liarly characteristieal epithets and designations by which
that idol was identified from all others, prove beyond the
possibility of doubt, that the Jews were worshippers of
the self-same .lldonil, adored by their Phrenician neigh·
bours. Adonis was distinguished for his personal beauty.
We find entire odes or psalms in praise of his beauty,f
and his characteristic epithet of TnE BEAUTY OJ' HoLI·
NEss used interchangeably, instead of his name. "Ilt ,
apPointed lingers unto the Lord, and that should praise
Tin: BEAUTY OF HoLINEss."-! Chron. xx. 21.
· "The Devil," saytf FirmiCius, "has his Christs,"f of
which he affects not to deny that this Adonis was one.
But one of the strongest sensible proofs of the difference
between the false Christa and the true one, which this
• Firmicius, quotel this Christian for&ery 1lllder the dlle Htqt '1'1Jf tvlor!W
avails himself Of it, u zut• loyUII!' ftyocrOf•-r·-
Hackmght and Doddridge strove mightily to en1iR it into the II8J'Vice ofthe Clladl
Hilitant ; but it would not do. · 1
D'?!f, o·rrnt pu 0 '?y l" pni rMM •bo n'D'II t
.Thou art handsome, beyond the 101111 of Adam, love is di1l'wJed in tby 1ipe, for
the.•ke of wbicb, God is enamoured of thee.for ever.-Paalm 46.
*Habet ergo Diabola Cbriatos 11101, p. 46.
.lDOKJI. 465
autbor could,addttoe, was, that the ointment with· wb.ksh
the Pagan priests anointed the lips of the mystics, or
initiated in the Jldonia, or sacrament of our Ltwtl AdoniA,
was wholly different from the unpmttm immortalt, which
Gi>d the Father gave to his only Son,• and which the
Son bestows on all those who believe in the divine maje&-
ty of hie name: for Christ's ointment, he would haveus to
lmow, is " of an immortal pompoeition, and mixed up with
the spiritual scents of paints, of myrrh, aloes, and cassia,
. out of ivory palaces ;" whereas the Pagan ointment was,
I dare say, little better than cart-grease.-Nobody need
know any more about JT"w. Julius Firmioius Ma-
ternus.
The AnoNu. were solemn feasts in honour of Venu,
and in inemory of her beloved son, Adonis. Venus, as
sprung from the sea, Mare, could not be more honourably
distinguished than by her epithet Maria ; Adonai is lit-
erally Our Lord_: so that these solemn feasts, without any
change or substitution of names, were unquestionably
eelebrated .to. the honour of MART and her son, Oua
Loan ; to whomsoever else those .names may have in 1-.ter
ages been applied. They were obeel'\"ed by the Greeks,
Phmnicians, Lycians, Syrians, Egyptians, and indeed by
almost all the nations of the then known world. It is
universally agreed, that it is to these ceremonies that
the Jewish God' refers in the 8th chapter of Ezekiel,
where they are denounced .as an abomination; we find
by inference, an honourable apology for the Jewish
nation, who, ·as a people, have through so many ages,
refused to embrace a religion, which in so many par-
ticulars, and eYeD in the continuance of the same names,
lost all poesibnity of being distinguished in their
apprehension from " abominatiQn of the l!ltdomam." The
festival of the Adonia was still observed at JllezatWlria, the
eradle of the Christian religion, in the time of St. Cyril ;
and at llaat·Antioch, where ·the were first called
Christians, (Acts xi. .26,) even as late as the time or
the emperor Julian, oommonly called the Apostate ;
"whose anoival there during the solemnity was taken for
an ill omen. "-lkll'• Pantheon. This is surely a curious
admission of our Christian mythologists. · Let the reader
ask himself, and answer as he may the questions emer-
• Aliad ell unguatam quod Deas p'ater unico tradidit filio, &c. p. 46.-See
ia Its place, UDder the ume C"rilt, what .no. tboap llippery, UJH*1b the
Fatben baild on oialmat or pomalllm. 6
Dig,tizcd by Google
166 ADONIS.
gent from thia state of the Chistian evidenoes-1. What
argument can be 'drawn from ·the wonderful propagation
of the when in the city where it. was at first most·
successfully preached, and where the disciples were first
calltd Christians, it had not, in the centu,ry,
abolished the Pagan and tdolatrous festtval . of the
Adonia ?-2. And wherefore should the arrival·of the
emperor Julian (a .known apostate from the' Christian
·religion, and a zealous patron of Paganism), during the
' celebration of the Adonia, have been considered as an ill
omen, but that the Adonia had come to be considered as
entirely a Chriman festitJal?-3. And at what time, or
whether . ever, the festival of the Adonia was distinctly
abolished, and that of the Christian Easter established
upon its overthrow ?. ·
For the solution of these most 'important inqumes, we
hold up the light of the admissions of ecclesiastical his-
torians. must ever be borne .in mind, that the Chris-
tians of the second, third, and fourth centuries indus-
triously laboured to-give their religion the nearest possible
resemblance to the ancient Paganism ; and confessedly
adopted the liturgies; rites, ceremonies, and terms of hea-
thenism ; making ittheir boast that the Pagan religion,
· properly tzplainecl, really was nothing else than Christianity;
that the best snd wllrest its professors in all ages had
been Christians all along; that Christianity was but a name
more acquired to a religion which had previo1J8ly
existed, and had been known to the Greek philosophers,
to Plato, Socrates, · and ·Heraclitus ;· and that " if the
writings of Cicero had been read '8.8 they ougllt to have
been, there would have been no occasion for the Christian
Scriptures•" Nor did some of them, who maintained that
Jesus Christ had a real existence, hesitate to ascribe to
him a work in which " he himself expressly declared that
he was in no way opposed the worship of the gods and
goddesses ;• while our most orthodox Christian divines,
the best learned in ecclesiastical antiquity, and most
entirely persuaded of truth of the Christian religion,
unable to resist or to co:nJJict with the constraining demon-
stration.of the data that prove the absolute .sameness and
identity of Paganism and Christianity ; and unable to
point out so much as one single idea or notion, of which
they could show that it was to Christianity, or
•Bee the chapter of edmaioM in tbill DII:G&818; ud 1o- Dll .. c-.
•ol. 1. p. 12. · .
by Google
MYSTICAL UCBII'ICil OJ' ·THE PB'a::L'UCIANII, 111
that Christianity had ·it, and Paganism had it not; have
invented the apology of an hypothesis ; the Pagan
religion, like the Jewish·dispensation, was typical; and that
Hercules, Adonis," &c. were all of them types and forerun-
ners of the. true and real Hercules, Adonis, &c. our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ. Nothing is more easily con-
ceivable, than that the priests and devotees of any one
of the innumerable forms of absurdity which superstition·
might from time to time assume,· should decry all oth,ers,
and pretend that their'lil alone was divine : nothing is so
hard to be conceived, as that a God of infinite wisdom and
truth shouid be the author of a religion s.o little superior,·
and so closely resembling the devices of juggling priests
and self-interested impostors, that it should not be hi the
power of any man on earth, who would judge impartially,
to discoyer in what the superiority consists ; or that there
W:U really any at all between them.
---
CHAPTER XXIII:
THE l!IYBTICAL U,C:RIFICE OJ' THE PH«ENICU.NS.
14 h was an established cnstom among the ancient Phreni-
cians, on any calamitous or dangerous emergency, for the
ruler of the state to offer up, in prevention of the general
ruin, the most dearly-beloved of his·children, as a ransom
to divert the divine They who were devoted
for this purpose; were offered mystically, .consequence of
an example which had been set this people by the God
lronus, who, in a time of distress, offered up his onllson
to his father Ouranus. mystical sacrifice o the
Phamicians had these requisites: 1st. That a prince was
to oft"er it ; .2nd. That hi• only son was to be the victim;
3rd. That he was to make this grand sacrifice invested with
the emblems of royalty."-Bryant's Obae"'atioos on .ll.nciem
llVIory, quoted· in .ll.rchbt.ahop Magu's Work on tM
llellt, vol. 1, p. 888. This is the Archbishop of Dublin,
whoae spirit, temper, and conduct are so in
harmony with those he ascribes to a God delighting in
blood and bloody sacrifices, famous for his inexorable
severity in the government of his diocese, and his eruel
treatment·ofthe inferior clergy ; nor leea distinguished for
118 CHMIIUI.&.
the convenient flexibility of his own orthodoxy. He ie
Jmewn in private to laugh at the folly of his own doe-
trines, as in public he ventured to declare, that though he
in the Articles of the Church of England collec-
tively, he did not believe in.them separately.
Here is, in fact, a first draft of the whole Christian
scheme, existing in a country neighbouring on Judea,many
·hundreds of years before itbecame moulded into its,present
shape.
Jesus Christ, the son of a king, is offered by God to
himself, to avert his own vengeance, and this is repeatedly
called the myltery of tilt Goapel, (Col. i. i6). Had .the Goa-
pel been matter ·of fact, there could have been no mylkry
in it. ·
"And they put on him a scarlet robe." )fatt. :uvii• .28.
"And they clothed him with purple." Mark 17. ·
"And arrayed him in a gorgeous robe," Luke xxiii. 11.
"And they put on him a purple robe." John xix. 2.
And set up over his head, his accusation) written-
" THu n JEsus, THE KING OF THE
JEws." Matt. :uvil. S7.
"THE KING or THE JEws.'' Mark xv. 26.
"Tau u THE KING OF THE JEws." Luke :uiii. 38.
"JESUS OF ' ·N.U:ARETH, THE KING '
OF THE JEws." John xix. 19.
Such a mockery of a dying malefactor, never, in any
other instance, disgraced the judicial adlninistration of a
· Roman magistrate.·
The addition of the important words, Juus of .N'azardh,
in the later Gospel of St. John, strongly indicates the
·intention of making the circumstances of a previously
existing Gospel apply to a newly-inveqted name for the
old hero. ·
CHAPTER XXIV.
OHRIIBl'fA.
"Tau the name of Caaumu, ud the general ·out-
line of his story," says the pious and learned Sir William
1 Jonet, "were 10118' to the birth of our Saviour, and
Dig•tizcd by Google
CBIUIB!I.A. 169
to the time of Homer, tDt bow "'Y etrtainlf."-
.llriatic &searchu, vol. 1, p. .259.
" In the Sanscrit Dictionary, compiled more than two ·
thousand years ago, we have the whole ol the incar-
nate deity born of a virgin, and miraculously escaping in
his infancy from the reigning tyrant of his country."-
Ibid. pp. 259, 260. .267. 272, .278. .
"I am persuaded," continues this great author, than
whom higher authority ca]lnot be adduced-" I am persua·
ded, that a connection existed between the·old idolatrous
nations of Egypt, India, Greece, and Italy, long before the
time of Moses."-lbid. p. 259. '
" Very· respectable natives have assured me, that one
or two misswnaries have been absurd enough in their
zeal for the conversion of the Gentiles, to urge, that the
Hindus were even now almost Christians ; because their
Brahma, Vishnou and Mahesa, were no other than the
Christian Trinity : a sentence, in which we can only doubt
whether folly, ignorance, or impiety, predominates. The
Indian triad, and that of Plato, he calls the Supret'tu
Good, the Rt(JIIOf&, and the &ul, are' infinitely removed
from the holiness and sublimity of the doctrine which
pious Christians have deduced from texts in the Gos-
pel." -Ibid. p. .27.2. . .
The celebrated poem Bhagav4t, ·contains a prolix ac-
count of the life of Chrishna :-"Chrishna, the incar-
nate deity of the Sanscrit romance, continues to this
hour the darling god of the Indian women. The 1\.ect of
Hindus, who adore him with enthusiastic ·almost
exclusive devotion, have broached a doctrine which they
maintain with eagerness, that he was distinct from all the
avatars (or. prophets), who had only a portion of his
divinity, whereas Chrishna was the person of Vishnou
(God} himself in a.human form."•-lbid. p. .260.
Chrishna was believed to have been born from the left
intercostal rib of a virgin of the royal line of Devaci.
u ·He passed a life of a most extraordinary and incom- ·
prehensible nature. His birth ·was · through
.fear of the tyrant Cansa, to whom it had been predicted
that one born at that time, in that family' would destroy
him."-lbid. p. 259. · · · . ·
" He was fostered, therefore, in Mat'hura, by an honest
•"Foriahim alltbe oftbe GoclMad bodily."-1 Col..
... 9. . . '
. . 16 . -·
; o;9; ized byGoogle
l'JO
herdsman, 8Ul'Damed .Ailanda, or the Happy, and hia
amiable wife, Yasoda."-.llriatic Rutarchu, vol. 1, p. ·!60.
" Chrishna, when aboy, slew the terrible serpent C.ali·
ya, with a number of serpente and monsters. He·p81!8ed
his youth in playing with a party of milk-maids; and at
the age of seven years, he held up a mountain on the tip
of his little finger. He saved multitudes, partly by his
arms, and partly by his miraculous powers. He raised
the liead, by descending for that purpose to the lowest re- '
gions. He was the meekest and best-tempered of beings.
He washed the feet of the Brahmins, and preached very
nobly indeed, and sublimely, bq.t always in their favour.
He was pure and chaste in reality, but exhibited an ap-
pearance of excessive libertinism; and had wives or mis-
tresses too numerous to be counted. Lastly, he was be-
nevolent and tender, yet fermented and a ter-
rible war."-Ibid. p. 278. .
" The adamantine pillars of our faith cannot be shaken
by an investigationof heathen mythology. I, who cannot
help believing the divinity of the Messiah, from the undis-
pl,lted antiquity, and manifest completion of many prophe-
cies, &c. am obliged, of courre, to believe the sanctity of
the venerable books to which that nasoN refel'!l."
-JIM. p. !88. .
The above extracts are taken from the let vol·
ume of the Asiatic Researches, 9th, on the Gods
of .Greece, Italy, and India, written J.ri 1784, and since re-
vised by the president, Sir W!\liam Jones. . .
I have thought it supremely important to present the ,
text of this author, and leave the reader to draw his
own conclusiOn. Higher authority· could not be quoted.
One better acquainted with the language,and
with the documents and evidence from which such. infor-
mation could be acquired, could hardly be conceived to
exist ; and certainly' never wasany man fw:ther from the
intention of supplying arms to infidelity. The unq_ues·
tionable orthodoxy of Sir William Jones therefore,
give to admissions surrendered by him. the utmost degree
Oi ()()geney ; while his unequalled and unrivalled learning
stands as a tower of strength, to render our position im·
pregnable, upon the lines to which he baa our
advance, and recognized our right.
Nothing in the whole compass of ecclesiastical b.istorJ
hM ani dietreseecl.the. modem advooates of
Chnstianity, as these surrel\ders mecle by their own belt
•
\ o,9,tizcd by Google
•
CHllllllft'A. 171
and ablest champion, to the cause of infidelity. Our evan-
gelical polemics, indeed, lose all,temper upon hearing but
an allusion to this most unluckily discovered prototype of
their Jewish deity. No language of insolence against
those who point out the resemblance, is too outrageou&-
no shift or sophistication to evade or conceal it, too pitiful.
The sun is not ·more dissimilar to the moon, say our
Unitarian divines, than is Chrishna to Christ.• No man in
his senses, our evangelicals, could believe that the
two personages were identical. Our Methodists t meanly
and pitifully alter the spelling of ·the name from the or!ff·
inal orthography, which rests on the high of 811"
WiJllam Jones, and invariably print it as Krilh.nu, or Krilk-
na, to screen the resemblance from the ·eye's observance ;
while they accuse their opponents of spelli¥ it as they
do (correctly), for the contrary purpose of making the
resemblance more striking. .
DR. BENTLEY'S THEORY.
Dr. Bentley, as a dernier resource, flies to astrology-
source inexhaustible of all that is wild in conjecture, and
delusive in argumentation,.to supply his drowning hypo-
thesis with a straw to swim on. " My attention," says he,
"was first drawn to thil! subject, by finding that a great
many Hindu festivals marked in the calendar, had every
appearance of being modern; for they ·agreed with the
modern astronomy only, and not .with the ancient. I ob-
served also several passages in the Geeta having a refer-
ence to the new order of things. I was, therefore, indu-
ced to make particular inquiries about the time of Krilhna,
who,I was satisfied, was not near so ancient as pretended.J
In these inquiries, I was told the usual story, that Krishna
lived a great many ages ago ; that he was contemporary
with Yud.heshtbira; that Garga, the astronomer, was hie
priest ; and that Garga was present at his birth, and de-
• ReT. Mr. Beard's Third Letter to the Author, p. 87.
f R.ev. Dr. Jolm Pye Smith, in Allewer to the Author, p. 54. A tnlly Ablime-
!ipi!CimeD or evupital malicDity. Thil holy Parthian throw• bia atoM, aud ......
tiCI8 bim8eJt' 1lllder pn!Ceaee of ln!a&iog bia advel'llll')' with contempt !
tHe wu aatillfied, it seems, before lie hera to inquire-a pretty good aecaritJ
to eDAre Jhat the -mt of bill inquiry would be •atwftU:tqry. He who il in..--
..-.m of wbN 1!8 preteade to eeek · fer, before he COIIIIIIeDCel bill-.:11,will be
... to bow when and where to lind it.
•
o,9,tizcd by le
•
CBIUIBlU.
termined the position of the planets at that moment ;
which position was still preserved in some books to be
found among the astronomers: besides which, there was
· mention made of his birth in the Harivansa, and other
Puranas. · These I examined, but found they were insuffi-
cient to point out the time ;• I therefore directed my atten-
tion towards obtaining the JAN.AMPATRA. of Krishna, con-
taining the positions of the planets at his birth, which at
length I was fortunate to meet with ;t from which it ap-
P.tars that Chrishna was born on the 2Sd of the moon
Sravana." The writer then gives the position of the
planets at the birtb of Krishna, and states that " they
. place the time of the fiction in the year A. n. 69(), on the
7th of August, at midnight."-Bentley on Ancient and .Mod-
ern Hindu AstrMWmy, quoted by Mr. Beard, in his Srd Let-
ter to the Author, p. 90. ·
Dr. Bentley is indeed a name of first-rate honour among
Christian theologues, and is frequently appealed to as one
of their highest authorities, "the learned Bentley," "the
princeof critics," &e. . The reader, however, cannot be
better led to judge how he should appreciate this great
. man's decision, than by oonsulting the temper and spirit
which appears in the annexed specimen of his manner of
answering the objections of. unbelievers, and which I find
quoted by his zealous admirer :-" What a scheme would
these men make? · What worthy rules would they pre-
scribe to Providence ? And pray, to what great use or de-
sign ? .To give satisfaction to a few obstinate, untractable
wretches ; to those who are not convinced by Moses and
the prophets, but want one to come from the dead and
convert them ! Such men mistake the .methods of Provi-
dence, and the veryfundamentals of religion, which draws .
its voquies by the cords of a man ; by rational, ingenuous,
and moral motives ; not by conviction mathematical, not
by new evidence miraculous, to silence every doubt aild
whim that impiety and folly can suggest. And yet all
this wo.uld have no effect upon such spirits and disposi-
tions. ·If they now believe not Chl'ist. and his Apostles,
neither would they believe if their own schemes were
complied with."-PhiltlttitMrus p. 114.
. The reader is here in full possession of the Christian
argument. He must bear in mind, however, that the
argument, as thus far stated, is entirely in hands.
• Aye, to be m ! to be 8IIJ'e ! they poiuted the wrong way I
t 0 fortuaate fellow ! I'd have ewom he wollld have met 1ridl i& !
Dig,tizcd by Google
CHRISHI.'U. 1'73
Had we ventured to supply to these admissions, the fur-
ther discoveries which unbelieving historians have made, ·
we might have enriched our matter with the still more
striking coinciden<:e of the facts ; that the reputed father
of Chrishna was a carpenter, and that he was put to death
at last between two thieves; after which, he arose from the
, dead, and returned again to his heavenly seat in ¥ aicon·
tha ; leaving the instructions contained in the Geeta to be
preached through the continent of India by his disconso-
late son, and disciple Arjun.'' ·
Tractable indeed, and easy of faith, must the adopters of
Dr. Bentley's explanation of the matter be, who can suffer
evidence of this character,, yielded and supplied as it is,
by authority as great as any they can pretend, and that
authority entirely adverse to our deductions,· to
be swept away by psalmistry, by, a calculation of the posi-
tion of the planets ; or defeated by a sagacious discovery
of some chronological discrepancy, which Dr. Bentley,
who was satisfied that it was there before he looked for it,
found in the Janampatra. .
· The exquisite ZlCcuracy of the astrological demonstra-
tion; that Krishna was born on· the 7th of August, A. n.
600, at midnight ; can only be put on the same footing with
the chronology of Julius Africanus, who has in like man-.
ner demonstrated that the world was made on the lflt of
September, and was exactly five thousand five hundred
and eight years, .three months, and twenty-five days old
at the birth of .Christ. · .
The argument the antiquity of the Hindu
thology, from the discovery tha.t " a great many of 1ta
festivals, a8 now observed, agree with the modern astron-
omy only, and not with the ancient," is of no more
validity, than if it we:re objected (as with equal truth it
might be) that the time of celebrating our Christian fes-
tivals has in like manner been accommodated to, more
modern arrangements of our calendar, and agrees not with
the ancient astronomy. When the Hindu astronomers
at any time found it convenient to.alter their- calendar, it
was surely as in them to make the times of cel-
ebrating their ancient festivalS" agr.ee with their improved
knowledge of astronomy ; as it was for our Christian as-
tronomers to alter the style, and to fix the celebration of
Easter and to different sealilons of the year
from those in which they had been observed for.previous
·ages. · ·
16• •
CBRIIO.A..
As for all the nneertamty with respect to the alleged
time of the birth of Chrishna, there is but little ground for
the advantage of Christians, who have ·never yet been
able to fix the date of the day, or month, or even of the
year of the birth of Christ.
"The year in which it happened," says Mosheim,•
"has not hitherto been fixed with certainty, notwithstand-
ing the deep and laborious researches of the Jeamed."
The teamed John Albert Fabricius has collected all the
opinions of the learned on the subject :t that which ap-
pears most probable is, that it happened about a year and
six months before the death of Herod, in the year of Rome
748 or 749. "The uncertainty, however, of this point,"
continues ourgreat ecclesiastical historian, "isof no great
We know that the Sun of RighteotUJness
bas shone upon the world ; and although we cannot fix
the precise period in which he arose, this will not preclude
us from enjoying the direction and influence of his vital
and salutary beams.". .
This is the most unfortunate figure ofspeech (if it be no
more than a figure of speech) that Christians could possi-
bly resort to ; since, · of raising and exalting our
ideas of the·divine Saviour above all associations with the.
·wild conceits of the heliolatry and idolatry of the heathen
it brings us at once to the irresistible apprehension,
:that the Christian Saviour, after all, is no more than what
the .tEsculapius, Hercules, Adonis, Bacchus, AP,ol1o, and
Chrishna were ; that is, an emblematical personffieation of
ithe SuN.
"Colonel Valency," says Sir William Jones, "assures
me that Chrishna in Irish means the Rt-
vol. 1, p. 262. ·
The taking of the name of·a thitag in any lan-
guage for the name of a penoa, would n.aturally render
these personifications infinite ; and cause the natural his-
tory of thing. without lifo to be related or understood as if
they had been real adventures of actually existing person-
ages. Hence, have we actions and sufferings, sentimenia
and affections, and all that could be predicated of rational
not only of animals, but of vegetables
and mammate substances, of the works of men's hands,
and even of the abstractions of their thoughts. The ship
.IJ.rgo, in which Jason and his companions sailed for the
" Eoclesiaanical Hiatory, vol. 1, p. 158.
t Ia hii.Bibliograpla. A"fiquar, cap. 7,11110&. 10, p. 187.
o;9; ized byGoogle
• lffl
golden fieece, bad itR imaginary moral qualities ; it fought
the waves, it suffered, it conquered, it was translated into
heaven. The disposition of mind called charity, is
described by St. Paul, under all the circumstances that
could be imagined of a most accomplished and lo.veJy
woman: "Sht BU.ffereth long, and u ki_nd; she dqth not
beha"e herself unseemly, 1eekt'th not u not talily
td," &c. (1 Cor. xiii.); though nothing could be further
from his intention; than that we should take charity to be
a pel'ROn who had a real existence, and fall to the folly of
endeavouring to find out when she was horn, under what
king's reign,·and in what country, &a.; as it may be con-
jectured some have done with respect to other personifi..
cations, whose existence, actions and stdferings, were of
aB equally metaphorical and figurative origination. But
if the identity of the mythological personages, Christ and
Chrishna, and the absolute derivation of the Christian
from the Hindu o.r Brthminical religion, might yet seem
matter rather of curious excogitation, than of satisfactory.
proof; the matter receives the utmost corroboration which
any historical fact of such remote antiquity, could be
conceived W, have, from the entire discomfiture and over-
throw of all attempts to evade the conclusion, which we
achieve.in the strength of further researches, later dis-
coveries, and ampler concessions won .from the convic-
tion of the most intelligent of Christians themselves, who
have dared to trust themselves with the important inves.:.
tigation.
We have becollle ·betterlhcquainted with the evidences
of the Christian religion than it was possible for the Lard-
ners, Watsons, or Paleys to have been.-We have means
of information which they had not.-We are in possession
of intelligence, the result of more extensive research, of
more impartial enquiry, and of more recent discoveries,
of which they were absolutely
No work whatever, of the div.mes of the now antiqua-
ted school of Christian-evidence writers, can be fairly ad-
. duced either as authority or argument, against· the thou-
san3-fold mOl'e formidable array of objections; which have
emerged even within the last ten years, from the funher
conoeeeions made by divines themselves, from the improv-
ed. powers of reasoning, advanced science, extended
knowledge, and greater moral .courage of unbelievers, to
bring up that science and knowledge to the conflict.
TQ pretend any longer that infidels insist only on argo-
Dig,tizcd by Google
•CBIUIIIlU.
that have already been anewered, or refuted, is to
discover the grossest ignorance of what their arguments
really are, and in that ignorance to fin:l the only excuse
for what such a pretence really is,-the grol!lsest false-
hood. · •
To pretend to refer the anxious mind for the solution
of its doubts to any defence of the Christian religion
written earlier than the present century; is but parallel in
absurdity to the setting a medical student of the present
day to acquire his knowledge of chymistry and physic
from the cumbrous folios of Paracelsus, Bombastus, or
the Commentaries of Van Sweeten, Hippocrates, and
Galen.
After the unmeasured abuse, and bitter vituperations
which I have incurred for the prominence which I have
given to this most pregnant argument, I find Godfrey
Higgins, Esq; of Skellow Grange, Yorbhire, himself a
very learned, ingenious • and s.ipcere· Christian, in his
superb work on the Celtic Druids, published by R: Hunter,
1827, thus laying at our feet, the keys of the fortress,
in the assault of which, I have taken such hard words,
hard. usage, and every thing that was hard, except hard
arguments :- ·. .
" After Baillie, and some other learned astronomers
had turned their attention to the ancient astronomical in-
struments, calculations and observations, of India, ·it was
discovered that they proved the .of the world to
be ·so great, that what was jlllled by our priests, the·
Mosaic system of could not be supported• .
Immediately .upon this, they set every engine ·at work 'to
counteract the effects of the recorded observations of the
·Hindus, by representing that they are, in fact, merely
pretended observations founded on back-reckonings.
" Professor ·Playfair of Edinburgh, ha8 given the most
decisive proofs in the Edinburgh. Ph.iloBOph.ical t
that the Brahmins, to have made the back-reckonings,
must have been well acquainted with the most refined of
the theoretical improvements· of modern astronomy. In-
of having forgot the principles of their formt.lm,
• Mr. Higgiue mut forgin my hopiag, that his fl!lee way of speUiDg CArillmc
(which is certaiDiy Chrisbua, and D9t Krishn•h) may not be an exception ..-u-
hia iagenuoum-. It W88 very natural that be should endeavour to bring hill
Christ out of the eorape 88 well 88 he could, and save his Saviour ! But Krilhna,
or Chrialma is fatal to Chrnt, epell him e'en u you. will .
! · ·
t See VoL 2, and VoL 4.
Dig,tizcd by Coosle
•
(l81UIH!f.&.. 177
they must have been much more learned than we know
they were, and in fact than their .ancestor8 ; indeed more .
learned than our modern astronomers were, until the ae-
tron9mical theories of Newton were completed very lately,
by the discoverjes of some of the French philosophers."
."Near the city of Benares, in India, are the astrono-
mical instruments ·cut out of the eolid rock of a moun-
tain, which in former times, were •used for making the
observations, which Sir William Jones and the .priests
say, were only back-reckonings. The Bramins of the
present day, it is said, do not know the use of them ; ·they
are of great size, and tradition states them to be of the
most remote antiquity. If astronomical facts stated
in the works of the Bramins, be the effects of the back··
the Bramins of the present day are asignorant
of the formulm on which they are grounded, as they are
of the nature of the astronomical instruments. If they
have beeo,me acquainted with them, it is by the in8truction
of Europeans." · ,
" A gentleman, in the AsiatiC? Researches, has lately,
by· of the most deeply learned and laborious cal-
culations,* discovered that the history of Krishna; one of
the most celebrated Gods of the Hindoos, was .invented
in the year,of Christ six hundred ; and that the story was
laid about the beginning of the Christian mra. This goes
dir-ectly to overthrow all the Hindoo calculations. He
has proved this as clear as the sun at noon ! ·He has
absolutely demonstrated it ! but it is unfortu:Qate fur this
dtmomtration, that the statue of this God is to be found in
the very oldest caves temples throughout all India,
-temples, the inscriptions on w-hich are in a language
used previously to the Sanscrit, an·d now totally unknown
to all mankind, any day to be seen amongst other places,
in the city of,Seringham, and the temple at Malvalipuram.''
It has bee11 moreqver satisfactorialy proved, on the
authority of a passage oj..lldriafl,, that the worship of
Krishna was practised in the time ofAlexander the Great
(830 years before ChriAt), at what still remains one ofthe
most famous temples of India, the temple of Mathura, on
the Jumna, the Matura Deorum of Ptolemy. So much for
·this astronomical demonstration."-Celtic Druids, pp. 154,
.155, 156, 157.
• Theile "laborilnu are Dr. Bentley'• wretchedabifta to sue ·
Chriltianity. • ' .
Dig•tizcd by Google
CHRitii!U.
"It seems the miraculously and -etupendOW!Ily learned
:Bentley, .who was to put all the enemies of the. Lord to
silence, has reckoned without his host ; and in discover-
ing by help of the JaMmpatra, that, from a certain relative
. location 'o( the planets, it would appear that Chrishnawas
born on the 7th of August, A.. D. 600; at midnight ; it
• happened most unfortunately for his learned wiseacreship,
not to oecur to him, that all these facts of the locationsof
the planets, are PERIODICAL-so that if he be right, that
the time of the birth of Chrishna can be inferred from
mch a location and the circnmstances attending it, (athing
in itself very doubtful); all that he will prove, will be, that
the pretended birth of this God must have taken place,
at a similar part of a period, eome time before the war of
Alexander the Great: And thus, if we know the length
of the period or cycle referred to, we shall know the lateet
time at which this God was feigned to be born before the
.birthofAlexander." Mr. Higgins informs us, that whenour
.army, of Indian Seapoysarrived at Thebes in Egypt in the
course of the French war, they discovered their favourite
God Chrishna, and instantly fell to worshipping, (no
doubt the cunning rogues of Bramins• came to Egypt in
the year 600, and plaood his statue amongst the rUins !")
" I made e.very attempt my time would permit," says
Col. Fitzclarence, " to discover the celebrated figure whieh
caused the Hindoos with the Indian contingent, to find :
fault with the nativee of this country, for allowing a tem-
ple of Vishnou to fall to rains ; but did not succeed."t
" I could say MUCH more," says Mr. Higgins, "on the
subject of this temple at for it is very curious- 1
but I much prefer lettingitalone!! !"-.Celtit .Drufd., p. 157.
In the name of God, what means this it aleuf
Cpristians have to thank their persecuting City Alder-
men, their prompt recourse to the vguments of stone ;
and iron,·their J>orchester and Oakham ; that when really
learned and intelligent men tread on the threehholdof the
most important discoveriea, they .much prefer " ldtiltfil
- alone," ·and leaving us to gue88, where we might oertaiDly
have known. .
In this dilemma, we may guus with a conviction litde
ehort of certainty-that it was never a little that pritlls
would boggle at-1. That the celebrated figure whiohCol. •
Fitzclarence was hindered from seej,ng, would have.estab- 1
• Thisaaroasm is very eevere, bat it is from the pen of,Cbriltilm Mr. flitPI. I I
believer in divine revelation.
f b bil Travels, pp. 898, 894.
Dig,tizcd by Google
1Y9
lished the absolute identity of the Indian Chrishna and
the Egyptian Christ : . .
In confirmation of this guus (if it be no more), we
the further light of an admission from the Rev. Mr. Mau-
rice, of the curious fact, that " the two principal pagodas
of India., viz. those of Benares and Mathura, are built in
the form of crosses."•
!. That the grounds on which the Hindoos found fault
with the British government for allowing a temple of ·
Vishnou to fa:ll to ruins, was, that the 'Christian religion
was absolutely one and the same with the ancient Hindoo
idolatry: .
S. That the travelling Egyptian Therapeuts brought
the whole story from India to their monasteries in
Egypt, where, some time about the commencement of the
Roman monarchy, it was transmuted into Christianity.
The tales that had been previously told of the idol of the
Ganges, were transferred to the twice-living demon ofthe
.Jordan, precisely as we see·the histories o( the Grecian
heroes, plagiarized and told over again of Romans. Thus
the combat of the Horatii and Curiatii, had been related
under different names, but with the same circumstances,
by Democrates apud .The action of .Mutiut
Screvola was told before of Agesilaus, and that of CurliUI
precipitating himself into the gulf, has been aseribed also
to a son of King Midas. · See also Pagan heroes turned
iBto Christian saints, out of numbel' : indeed, half the
saints of ·the Roman calendar are heathen gods and god-
desses, and like the Jewish Jesus, a false creation pro-
eeeding fl"'OD the heat-oppressed brain.
4. And lastly, that -the Missionaries engaged by the
last India Company; and otherwise sent to India for the
purpose of propagating the gospel, are employed
NGUy·il\ the dillmetrically opposite work, of doing their
utmoe« to suppress it ; and to carry on the counsel which
we see guiding their machinations at home, suppressing
mdence, perverting facts, destroying hindering the
·JDeBwnents of antiquity from coming to the knowledge of
the community, persecuting and railing at infidels, and
keeping up that state of general and consequent
that best disposes enslaved and degraded millions
te bow to the yoke of tyranny, and " to order
lowly and reverently to all their betters.''
• Mnrice'l Jadian Aatiqaitiee, vol. I, p. 161, cr-oted by Hr. lfgbw, p. 12'7,
UeltiDJ>nia . • . .
Dig,tizcd by Google
' .
180 AI'OU.O• _. ..
. CHAPTER XXV.
APOLLO-.JESU15 CHRIST.
CrcERo mentione . four of this name. Pausanias and
Herodotus, rank Apollo among the Egyptian deities.
· Diodorus expressly states, that Isis, after having
invented the practice of medicine, taught this art to her
eon Orus, named also Apollo, who was the last of the
Gods that reigned in Egypt. It is easy to trace almost·
all the Grecian fables·and mythologies from Egypt. If
the Apollo of the Greeks, was said to be the son of
Jupiter: it was because Orus, the Apollo of the Egyp-
tians, had Osiris for his father, whom the Greeks con-
founded with Jupiter. If the Greek Apollo were reckoned
the God of eloquence, music, medicine, and poetry, the
reason was, that Osiris, who was the symbol.of the sun
among the Egyptians, as well as his son Orus, had there
taught those liberal arts. · If the Greek Apollo were the
God and conductor of the muses, it was because Osiris
.carried with him in his expedition·to the Indies, singing
women and musicians. ' This parallel might be ·carried
still further, but enough hae ·been said to prove that the
true Apollo was probably of Egypt. Plutarch, however,
has decisively shown, that the Egyptians worshipped the
SuN under the name of·Osiris ; and as.Osiris was believed
to travelled into India, and there established civiliza-
tion and religion, we see at once enough to account for
the same God coming to be worshipped in India under a
designation in the language of thot country expressive of
the 881Jle sense as Chrishna, that is, the Sun. Many have
doubted whether Apollo were a real personage, or only
the great·luminary: Vossius has taken p&insto prove this
God to be only an ideal being, and that there never was
any.Apollo but the sun. All the ceremonies performed to
his honour, had a relation to the great source of
light which .he represented ; whence, this learned writer
concludes it to be in vain to seek for any other diviD.itJ
than the sun, adored under the name Apollo.
· Without any wish to overthrow or to conflict
against a concluSion founded upon such just and incon-
trovertible premises, one yet cannot restrain one's wish
to haTe known whether so sincere a Christian, in con-
sidering the language ascribed to the God Apollo, and
the manifest relation to the great source of light in all
Dig,tizcd byGoogle
.li'OLLO. 181'
the cereDlOllies perfonned to his honour, aa constituting
l complete demonstration, that such a personage ae
neve,r had any real e:xisteoce, and that it was the
lUll, and the sun only that wae worshipped under that
lesignation ; whether he had found any clearer references
to the source of light in that language and those ceremo-
lies, than- · ·
1. That God should be believed to have said of himself,
:c I am tht light of tht .world."-John ix. 6. " I em
1 1ipt into th.t 11HWld, tlaat belietldh ia Me Bhould taOC
l6iclt ip darbut."-John :xii. 46.
I. " He halh mat me wpreacl& 1M acuptabZ. year of tht
Lerri."-Luke iv. 19.
S. That his. eaered legends ehould abound only with
J!Ch as can have no possible or conceivable
application, but to the God of day : " .IJ.lighl to lighlm t4e
GcUlu, tmd.w be the glory (or brightneas) of. /ail puple."-
.
4. this should he the exprees which hie
apoetles, or months, were to declare concernmg him, that
:' Ged wlighl, ad ita AM v tao - - . at all."-1 John
I. 5. .
5. That his wershippen should usually have
lddressed him ·in such phrases aa " Phosphore redde
.,_Sweet holpbor briDe the day,
cooqu'rinc ray
May ... tbele rop.-eet Phosphor brln« die day.
Quarlb ofPtalM :riii.
8. "!Aglttea our darkmu tDe butte!& thee .IJ.doaai, a.id by
,..,!"f'eY Mfmd w from all perill tmd dangtn of thil night. '
m &nnu. . .
·"God of God, lighl of light, very God of vtry God."-
Ored.
"Merrijul .8tlooai,1M butte!&thu to eaBI thy bright of
church.."-Collect of St. John.
0 God, toh.o, by 1M leading ofa liar, didlt maniftst thy
&m to tht natiom."-Colltct ofth.t Epiphany.• ·
• To thu all angtll cry aloud, tht lwwem, and all tht
/Mran."
Cbrhtiu poet wiB belt iBttnaet • wbat... dllt
J&- - OIJ.thea V-, tileliar or the God o£ da7,
• . Fllirel& or..... Jut iD the lraill or Dipt,
;. Jr better, thtou t,JeiOJII DOt to tb8 da'fUl-
'1•! ' ..
-.· . .. W"lda di] bripat.oircle& 1-Mo,.,...Bp..
11 .
• I
I
• • . . .
189·
n. ,., lltat1M and. t6lith &re fwD qf ·de tJf tr.,
CLur," (or brightnese). - · · · ·
1!. " 1'1&£ clarittm cOft&ptsn!t of tM · (twelve montht, or)
opostlu praile tla£e. . ·
18. " TAou art tht King of Clary, 0 Christ!" ·
14.· " .
WMA thou (()okut upota tltM to delittcr man, IMu pt1M11
thl'Ough tit£ comtellation, or zOdiacallign-tla£ Yirgin."
16. " Wla£n tho. had8t Otltrcomt. 1M Bi&arpfttu of tDinter,
tlaoo didBt open the -kingdom of IU•en,........i. e. bring · on the
reign of the 8Ummer months, to all belietttn.,, And why
.is it that there should not -
be one single ph1'88e or. form
;of Bpeech either in · New Testament or in our beet
; Catholic or Protestant liturgies, but ·in the most strict
; and literal sellfte is predicable of the suN, but cannot
1.without an infteeted and· eonmderably· 8tta.ined use of
1 speech, and still more strained efort of the v.ndentand-
1 ing, apply to the pei'I!IOn of a in:an. RMargm, to rise
and aacendere in cmlum, tQ into heaven, are expr81-
sions eo plain and obvious, ·as that we·eonld hardly find
any to expreeil.the literal sense, nearer, of whet we witneu
of the rising and eetting ewi &Tery day of. OUJ' liTe& ;
whereas 'tis only by a most awkward and violent c,._
ckf'UU in that they CliO be made'to oonvey their
other than the Sun," beoattee the atmbutes··whieh are
commonly ascribed .to ApolJo 4o. ·so:.. agree
thereto." • ..
We are not. allowed, however, to
so· just and .co.nclusive.With to
the Pagan de1ty, would hold ·m ·aily panty ofapplication·
( Christ, .v.:hom hi£1 8Q
. as be1ng ',',1M th.lt "'hick ma..,
· cometh •Dto the ttHWld. -John 9.· ·. .. . .• , , . '
. There can be no doubt but .that Apollo Was more gene-.,
rally received in the Pagan world. than any dei»-,
.his worship being so universal', that in'almost every !
had.temples, oracles, festivals, as innumerable·!J.8 I'
h1s vanous names and attrtbutes. Among the moet ·eon·
apicuous of his oracles were those of Phocis, Claros in ·1
Delph\, aud Didylllttt 9n M<mnt
• Apoliaem, Iliad .hihll lliM 'CI1ibitMJ"-i
q• ApoUini V1llao tribuantar, mite coit'venlu'ltt.;_Qie, a. De JiJ,;;;;:l>eo.
It can ollly ucrib.ed t.e a momentary o( 'the 1lliviDe ial..,.
which BUided the pt1n of the EVIIQ&I!Iil¢, that oJie <if'tlle of AJODo-
Didym•, lboald haYil .,_ left' fu die pGI.IIIIiitl'biiJL .nio6·or .r- da&.- .
1obia U. 24. · . I r
Dig•lizcd by Google
IIUCUirf. l&S
iA Bmotta, &mOng.the Argrves, andat HeliopoU.
in himby
circle, and at others by a sceptre with an eye above it-a
symbol which we see at this day consecrated to the repre-
sentation bf the Christian Prot1idmce. Nor should we fo':'g'et
the claims of his ministers to a peculiar character of sanc-
tity and holiness, which we may well wonder how the7
should ever come to surrender to the pretensions of preach·
ers of Christianity : unless, indeed, we should venture to
imagine that there was.never any real d.Uference between
them, and that the priests of Apollo and of Jesus were
ministers of the same religion, and of one and the same
deity, under· different names. 'Tis certain, that ·Apollo
had a celebrated shrine at Mount Soracte in Italy, where
his priests were so remarkable for sanctityt and holineee
of heart and life, that they could .walk pn burning ooa1a
unhurt."-Bell'' Panth. in loco. ·
Parkhurst, in his Hebrew Lexicon, under the word
'fm 4, informs us, that "the "' 1'7'-m-' Praise ye Jah !' or
' Hallelujah !' which the Septuagint have left untran•
lated, ...fll'llw'", which begins and ends so many of the
Psalms, ascribed to David, was a solemn form of prtftle to
God, which, n.o doubt, was·far prior to the time of David;
since the ancient Greeks had their similar aoolamation,
.r?l•.uv r'l-' Hallelujee !' with which they both and
ended their p«am, or hymns, in honourof Apollo. '
-·-
CHAPTER XXVI.
ln:acuar-.JilSUS CHRIST.
Tau god for no further notice in our inquiry, than
the eiroumBtance of his having been dietinguished in
the -Pagan world by the evangelical title of the Logos, or
the Woan-" The Word that in the beginning was with
God, and that also was a God."
Out Christian writers, from whose partial pens we are
now obliged to gather-all they will permit us to know of
the ancient forD18 of piety, discoveP considerable appre-
benmt':n, and a jealous caution in their language, where
the· resemblance between and Christianity
might be apt to strike the mmd too cogently. Where
Horace gives us a very extraordinary account of Mer-
Dig,tizcd by Google
lM B.lCCBUL
eury'B deaoent into hell,• and his causing a of
the ·sufferings there,t our Christian mythologist checks oUr
eurioeity, by the sudden break oft"-" As this perhaps
may be a mystical part of his eh.aracter, we had better let
it alone."-&U'• Panth.. vol. .2. p. 7.2. But the further
back we trace the evidences of the Christian religion,
the less concerned we find its advocates to maintain, or
even to pretend that there was any difference at all be-
tweeil"the e88ential doctrines ofChristianity and Paganism.
AKMONIUI S.&.ccus, a learned Christian Father, towards
the end of the second century, had taughtwith the highest
applause:in the Alexandrian that "all the Gentile
religion's, and even the Christian, were to be illustrated
ansi explained by the principles of an ut&Wersal ph.iloaophy;
but that, in order to this, the f&bles of the priests were to
be removed from and the comments and inter-
pretations of the disciples of Jesus from Christianity ;t
while Justin Martyr, th& first and most distinguished
apologist for the Christian religion, who wrote within
fifty of the tirrie of the Evangelist St. John, boldly
challenges the respect of the.em{>eror Adrian and his son,
as due to the Christian r.eligion, JUSt exactly on the score
of its sameness and identity with the ancient Paganism.
"For by declaring the Logos, the begotten -
of God,
our Master, Jesus Christ, to be born of a virgin without
any hwnan mixture, to be crucified and dead, and to have
risen again into heaven ; we say no more in this, than
what you say of those whom you style the sons of Jove,
&e. As to the son of God, called Jesus, should we allow
,him to be nothing more than illan, yet the title of the Son of
God very j"!lBtifiable upon the account of his wisdom, ooll-
;sidering that you have your MEacuu in worship under
!the title of THE WoR.n, and Messenger of God."-BM'•
•.8pologiu of th.e Fath.m, vol. 1, London, 1716. .
Justin might, if he had pleased, have been still more
particular, and have shown, that the Gauls,
· more than a hundred years before the Christian era, in the
district of Chartres, a festival was annually celebrated to
the honour_of the Virgo Paritura, 1M virgin tltallhoultl briag
fri."-Dupuil, tom. 8, pA 51, 4to edit. ·
• " He di!IC8Dded into hell."-Apo•tk•' CreetL "'nlat be weal don illo
ball, Uld aJ.o did rille epiD."-BaptUmal "By which allo be Will
ad pnacbed unto the spirila in priaoo."-1 Pe&. iii. 19.
t See the Apoerypbal Gospel of Nieodemoa.
t Mo.heim'• Eeel. Hilt. vol. 1, p. 171.
THE WORD. 183
Gonzales aleo writes, that among the Indians he found
atemple Pariturre Virginis, of the virgin aiHHit to lwing forth.
The goed Christian Father Epiphaniae glories in the
fact, that the prophecy, " Behold a virgin 8/ulll conceive and
bring forth a son," had been revealed to the Egyptians.-
ruic .DrWU, p. 168. This prophecy, ho-wever, should
rather have been revealed to the lrilh, u its literal accom·
pliahm.ent is so strikingly of a piece with the equally
authentic miracles of their patron saint; who sailed acl"Oii!a
the ocean upon a mill-stone, and contrived to beat an
oven red-hot with nothing but ice.-" Life of the. gloriow
, Bilhop &. Patrick, by Jilo. B. B., &. Omtrs1 1625, by liceftce
of tht Censors of Louvaine, of the Bishop of &. Omers, and of
t4t Commina,.Y and.Defi•ili>r-gmttral oftl&t Seraphic Order."
THE WORD--JESUS CHRIST.
The celebrated passage, "In the beginning the Word,
111111 the Word 1DaB tDith. God, and the Word 1Das God," &c.
(John i. 1.) is a fragment of some Pagan treatise on the
philosophy, and as such is quoted by Amelius, a
Pagan philosopher, as strictly applicable to the Logos, or
Mercury, the WoRD, as early as the year 268; and is
quoted appropriately as an honourable testimony borne to
the Pagan deity, , a barbarian. . ·
With no intention further off, than that o(
the claims of any human being to that title, Amehus has
the words, "And this plainly was the WoRo, by whom
all thin,rs were m.,ade, he himself eternal, as Hera-
clitus also would say ; an4 'Qy Jove, the same whom the
barbarian affirms to have been in the place and digD.ity of
•Principal, and to be with God, and to be God,. by whom
all things were made, and in whom every thing that ·was
made, lias its life and being ; who, descending into body,
aadputting on flesh, took the appearance of a man, though
eT• then he gave proof of tl).e ml\iesty of his nature ;
Daft and after his dissolution, he was deified again."• .
. Thill is the .language of one, of whom there is not the
lew preteace to show that he was a believer of the
t III'Of llqCI 1JI' 0 1oyor, Cll& OrlCI Till f&1'0/'II'CI aylft'I'O, fliP - 0
... ,., li', otto ,..,.,, crq.nc .. n -1116••
"'-""'• ..,..,., Ia • mrl.c r•r••'l".tcu '" • TO t-
- C.., •'" cw •cs• ,., "•'"" •cu ocrq•cs nlwa,...,.o,.,
..,.. f"P •cu A '11p..flllii"CIIt&DVI&I' T'/C fiii1110C TO ... .,..111
Ill ......CII :Wca.lcl' -.tle..tG' - #101' III'Cil, CNOC 1JI' TO &IC 11.,.CII •Cll '"IC
liN"' -rott 01f#('anrcw JW"P· EHn lib. ai. o. 19. ct-
,.,.l.cr.....tom. ..,. 200.
. 17•
Dig,tizcd by Gqogle
188 ·•ACOIIUI.
Gospel, or even if he had ever heard of it, that he did not
reject it ; it wae the language of clear, undisguised, and
unmingled Paganism. The Logos then, or Word, was a
\designation purely and exclusively appropriate to the Pa·
gan·mythology. ·
The Valentinians, a sect of Christian heretics of the
first century, approximated M closely to as to
respect·and believe a regular theogony, holding, according
to Cyrill, that Depth produced Silence, and upon Silence
begat the Logos.•
---
CHAPTER XXVII.
BJ.CCBU8--JESUt CB&IIT
WAI the god of good-cheer, wine, and hilarity ; and 88
such, the poets been eloquent in his praises. ·on all
occasions of mirth and jollity, they constantly invoked
his presence,f and as constantly . thanked him for the
blessings he bestowed. To him they ascribed the greatest
happiness of which humanity is capable,-the forgetful· 1
ness of cares, and the delights of social intercourse. It has
been usual for Christians .invariably to represent this
God as a sensual encourager of inebriation. and excess;
and reaeon enough it must be admitted that they have, for
giving such a colouring to the matter ; since, only by so I
could they conCeal the resemblance which an im·
partial observance would ihunediately discover between 1
Phamician: YEsua,* who taught mankind the culture
of the vine, and so without a miracle changed their drink
from mere water into wine, " chtereth God and -,"
(Judges, ix. 18), and the Egyptian Jesus, who, by a
manmuvre upon half a dozen water-pots, was believed to ·
have persuaded a company of into::dctted guests, that he
had turned water into wine ; of which the narrator ofthe ,
story, with a striking tone of sarcasm, remarks,· " This
of miracles .did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and
manifested forth his glory ; and his disciples believed on
him," {John ii. 11). .As.much ae to say, that his di&-
only would be.the of .an Pr:.
posture. ." He manifutul jiJrlh his glon,[ ; ' ·that JS, hi&
• l'lv.tor tyl"""lfl :Ztf'lf', ""' 111r0 'r'lf Z•r'lf ..l.eytw. '
t" For where two or three are pthered iD my tJ.e •I ia
tbe midlt or them." ,;_Matt. :nili. :ao.
hu ebown that Yz• or..,.,.,
_..It, wi&h die l.aiia termiution, il aotbias elM tbaa Y-. or J-. :
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
18T
peeuliar mythological character, as· THE Goo OF Wun:,
which was in like manner the peculiar characteristic of
Bacchw. t
The real origin of the mystical three letters I H S,
rounded with rays of glory, to this day retained even ia
our Prottstant churches, and falsely auppoeed to stand for
Jml8 .Hominum &Jlt,ator, is none other than the identical
name of Bacchus-Ys:s, exhibited in Greek letters, rH:z.-
See Hesychiu on 1M vord rH:z, ·i. e. Yu, Bacchus, Sol, the
. -
T.he well-paid apologists of this and all other absuditiee
that have obtained their translation ·from Pagan into
Christian legends, in vain endeavour to blink the ob-
scenity betrayed in their Greek text. This miracle
was not performed till all the of it were in the
last stage of intoxication. " .Et!ety man at the beginning
dath let forth good wine, and vh.en men /tmJt wU drunk, tAt.
lhat tDhich il tDOt'8t ; but thou hast kept 1M good vine Ufttil now,"
is the remark of the Architriclinus, or ruler of the feast,
the only individual, perhaps, except thoee who contributed
to the juggle, who could speak at all. " Halt kept the gooi.
mne until not11 ;" that is to say, "Till now, that it is all
over with them, and you see them sprawling under the
table, or scarce whether their heads or heels are
upperlllQst." The origmal text supports this sense, as the
same will be found in the drunken odes of Anacreon : " To '
! But I shaU drink. Boy, bring Mt tAt gohlet! for I
had rath.er lit dead drunk, than dead."•
Nothing short of a debility of intellect produced by re·
ligious enthusiasm, similar to the sedative etrects of
frequently-repeated intoxication, could have hindered
Christians from seeing the deep and pungent sarcasm on
their involved in this drunken miracle, which a
moment's rational refteotion would expose. In any
sense but that. of an imposition practised ·upon men's ,
senses, the miracle involves a phystcal hnpo88ibility, and
a moral contradiction. In no idea that a rational mind
.can form of the power of God himself, can we conceive
that he could make a thing to be and nol to bt, _and at the
same time ; Or so operate on the past, as to cause that to
ho.tle been, which really had not bten. That ftuid, therefore,
• Onyot' a.t• Ia :11'1,_ . Ila, ?r\)llri'OI' 1'01' lfaMw -
q,lfl' •l'o• ln/1ft.Uor • :11'01 I ao& 01'411' 1'01'1 1'01'
Mahon• ,..caq ,., dCIIIIIw.
llo.Uv 1f 8attono.
' .4Mereott.
Dig•tizcd by Google
•
188 Bj,OfBUS;
whatever it was, whloh had not been presrted aut of tlte
grape,-whioh had .not been generated, oonoocted, ma·
tured and exuded through the secretory ducts of the vine,
drawn up by its rootll out of the earth, circulated through
its capillary tubes, and etfunded into .its fruit, could not be
wine, nor could GQd himaelf make it to be so.
.. Tbat were to make
co.....rocQoa. which to God hiJDteJf'
Impoarible • held., ' . .Milton.
The more shrewd and who profess
and call themselves Christians, have avowed them!!elves
not a little Blhamed of this miracle, have seen and recog:
nized its palpably Pagan character, and sighed, and wished
that it were pea{)efully apoceyphized out of its place in the
aaered volume. • ·
Our only moral use of these Christian shall
be to remind ow- for the advantage of some fur-
ther stage of our argument, that we have here,in the very
volume which haf!.. so long been pretended to contain
"truth without any mixture oferrm·,'' an affair not only
decidedly and uneqmvocally fabulous, but physically im·
possible ; and this re-edited under an apparatus of ChriS-
tian names,·and told with circumstances of time, place and
charaeter--setl u;empligrGiia !
' The Egyptian :Bacchus was brought up at Nysa, and is
·ramous as having been the conqueror of India; In Egypt
he was eaJ.led Osiris, in India Dionysius, and not
bably Ckriih.na, as.he was called Adone\:ls, which signifies
the Lord of HeatJtn, or the LoRD AND GIVER oF LIGHT, in
Arabia ; and Liber, throughout the Roimm dominions,
from whence is derived our term liberal, for every thing
·that is • .hd amiable. .
Though . 7cand'alized by the' moderns, as all
the Pagan divimties are, where Christians are the carvers,
he was far ·otherwise understood by the The
intention of his iqmgined presence at the festive board
was to and prevent, ·and not to authorize excess.
His discipline prescribed the most strict sobriety, and
the most rational and guarded temperance in the use of
his best gift to man, which wisely used, exalts as'ntuch our
moral as it does ou.r physical energies, .endears man to
man, gives vigour to hi• understanding, life to his wit,
and inspiration to his discourse. Bacchus ·was, in the
atrictest and sense of the word, a pure and holy
BACCBUI. .. 189
ROd ; he waa deity amiable. He is called by
llor8ce in general the wwdut God, the tlfUftl God. The
finest moral of his allegorical existence is, that he was
never to be seen in company with Mare ; 80· that he luul
'juster claims than any other to be deeignated H the
Prime of Pe(J(;e." Orpheus,• however, directly states that.
Bacchus was a latDper, calls him Mon:s, and attributes to
him the two tables of the law.t It is well known, howev-
er, that his characteristicattribute was immortalboyhood ;
and einee it is admitted that no real Bacchus ever existed,
but that he was only a mask or figure of some concealed
truth, (see Horace's inimitable ode tu thie deity,) there ean
be no danger of our dropping the clue of his allegorical
identification, in winding it through all the mazes of hie
vocabulary of names, and all the personi6ca·
tions of the same primordial idea.
But the most striking circumstance of this particular
em'blem of the SUN is, that in all the ancient forms of
invocation to the SuPREME BEING, we find the very ·
identical expreBSione appropriated to the worship of
Bacchus ; such as, Io Terombe !-.-Let.., cry unto the liwtl!
Io ! or Io Baccoth 1-Gotl, .u our ·teGn! Jehovah Evan !
Hevoe I and Eloah !-The .!luthor of. ow eziltmee, the
mighty Gotl ! Hu Esh !-Thou Clrl 1M fire ! and Elta
Esh !-Tiwu art the life! and lo NiBBi !-0 Lord, direct w!
which last is the literal English of the Latin motto in the·
anne of the City of London retained to this day, " Domine
c1irige t101." The Romans, out of all these terms, preferrecl
the name of BAccoTH, of which they composed Baccl&ur.
The more delicate ear of the Greeks was better pleased
with the words Jo Nuu, out of which they formed .Diony-
liw.
That it was none other than the SuN which the Jews
themselves \lnderstood to be meant, and actually worship-
ped, under his characteristic epithet of THE LoRn, see
f " confirmation strong as proof of holy writ" in the Jewish
general's address to the Sun:-
II " Thtn apakt Jo1hua tO THE LoRn, and SUN, ltand
llaou ltUl upon Gibeon! & THE SvN ltood Ifill in the midst
I •Orpbea., who Cor the molt pert il followed by Homer, wu the &re&t intro-
' clacer of the rita of the heathen wombip amo111 the Gnteb, being cJiarrd with
haYiac invented the very nam01 of the pdl. He wrote, that all tbinp were
_. by One Gotllaead witA 11u'ee ,._,, aDd thit God il all thiftg•.-
HdretD LeW.cm, 847.
t Baccbum, Orpbeas vocal I'IHI'I" hoc Olt'M- et -'•ai'Offl\1-Leplatorem,
et eidem tribuit cYo:da•G .,.a,.or .,ad,.or Cluli duplicel 1eBiltabalu.-Pnraey.
p_,A. Mytiiewa, P· 6'7.
o;9; ized byGoogle
190 I.&.OCBUI.
of htMta. .flltil tlam N teo ilay.lth it or t(Ur it,
tltat THE LoaD ,tmfo lite eoies of a ,..."--Joehua x.
u, 1'8, 14. .
-
· The BAoo&.aJuLu, or. r.eligious feasts in honour of
Bacchus, were ce,lebrated witb,much solemnity, and with
a fervent and impaasioned' piety, among the
particularly the-Athenians, who, till the cx>mmencement
Of the Olympiads, even computed their years from then1,
dating all transactions and events, as Christians have
since done, with an Anno Domini, in Ut.t rtar of ow Lwtl.
The Bacchanalia are sometimes ·called Orgies, from the
transport and enthusiasm with which they were cele-
brated. The form and disposition of the solemnity de-
pended at Athens on the appointment of the supreme
magistrate, and .was at first extremely simple ; but by
degrees, it became encumbered with abundance of eere-
mohles, and attended with a world of dissoluteneSB and
excess, probably competing. in enormity and indecency
with a Christian carnival : eo that the Pagan Romans,
who had adopted the orgies, were afterwards ashamed of
the exhibition, and suppressed them throughQut Italy, by
a decree of the Senate;
The orgies ·celebrated originally to the honour of Bac-
chus, are still · continued in honour of the same deity,
under another epithet; as· may be observed by any
person who shou-ld chooee to waste an hour in attending
the revival meetings of the wilder ordens of Christian
Methodists-the Donkers,. Jumpers, &c. and all who pre-
tend to a more spiritual and primitive Christianity. The
hysterical young women, Bighing, moaning, -
" Exaltins. trembliDc, racmc. &intiug, . .
Po.e.ed beyond tb11 m1186'a
under the impressions which our
to produce on their'imaginations, are the very
antitypes of the frantic priestesses o_f Bacchus. Nor can
any man doubt, that if the ad.vance. of civilizati(ln,·
the improved reason of mankind, did not stand in bar
such excesses, the state of mind called sanctification, whic
our clergy aim to render as general as they can, woul
continue as evangelized Bacchanalia to this ·
In the ancient Orphic verses sungin the orgies of Ba
chus, as celebrated throughout Egypt, Phamieia, Syriat
Arabia, Asia Minor, Greece, and ultimately in Italy, it
was related how _
that God, who had been born. in
was picked up in a box that ftoated .on the water, aaq
I
J
Digitized by oogle
.
191
took ·hfs name Mifu, in signification of his having been
''saved ftoorii the waters,''• and Bimtllti', from his having
had two mothers ;t· that is, one by nature, and another
who had adopted him. He had a rod with ·Which he per·
formed miracles, and which he eould change into a serpent
at pleasure. He ps,seed the Red Sel?o dry-shod, at the head
of his army. He diyided the waters ofthe rivers Orontes
and Hydaspus, by the touch of hisrod, and passedthrough
them dry-shod. By the same mighty wand, he drew water
from the rock ; and wherever he the land ftow·
ed with Wine, milk, 'and honey."
The Indian nations were believed to have been entirely·
involved in darkness till the light of Bacchus shone on
them. ·· ·
Homer relates, how in a wrestling match with Pallas,
BaechliB yielded the victory ;t and Pausaniae,· that when
the Greeks had taken Troy, they found a box which con-
taine(l an image of this god, whieh Eurypilus having pre-
ventured to look into, was immediately
smjtten with madne88.§ Why should we further prose·
cute this laborious idleness ? Demonstration oan call for
no more. .Every part of the Old Testament, from first to
last, is Pagan : not eo much a8 orie single line, containing
or the.ve8tige of ariy idea or conceit whatever1
iad.·we in God's temple, but what will fit back again ·an«l
dove-tail into its original niChe in the walls of the Paa-
theon.-Compare the Chapter on the State of theJews, ia
this .
CHAPTER XXVIII.
PllOintTBEUI-JEIUI CBRJI'I.
· Tars was a deity who united the dh'ine and human
nature in, one persoB, a'nd was ·confessedly" both God tm4
iftaft"-perfeet God and perfect man, of a reasonable
soul human ·flesh subsisting ;. equal to the father aa
touching his godhead. but inferior to the father as touch·
ing his manhood: who, although he WtiS God and man,
yet was he· not two; but one Prometheus ; one, not by
oonve'rSion of the. godhead into ftesh, but by taking
Dianhoodinto.God; one·(t.ltogether, not by confusion ·of
subfltanoe, ·but by·unity of :.for as the reasonablQ
:•J:rom l'lfirDto ot.it or furlh.-:-" Beca.ellbe laid,1J:Il:l'r!Q-1 drm AUia
...:..O..EQd. ii. }(). ' . . . . . . . . . . .
t .... *·IW.& ........
Dig•tizcd by Google
19!
aoul and fleah.i8 one man, eo God and man is :one Prome-r
theus : who1 for us me.n, and (or our salvation, down
from heaven, and was·incarnate; and was made man, end
was also for ue, under FORCE and sTRENGTH ; he
· suffered, and descended·into hell, rose from the dead, .
he ascended into heaven, -and sitteth on the right of
the Father, God Almighty;" · . · .
Thus far the Pagan and the Christian crtdttada ran hand
in hand together ; and it is a more than striking coinci-
dence, that the name P..tmatthtur should be directly
synonymous 'Yith the Logo•, or Wdrd of' God, ·
applied by St..John to the_God and man, or· demi-de1ty of
the Gospel, frqm befcm·JlGftll, and or CQt6nul ;
hence'directly signifying t'he Christian deity, ·
which we see an eye.surrounded with. rays
of glory, and eastmg 1ts 'Of bght upon the affairs of
our w:orld. · Indeed; unde! this he continue&
to thm day a more fashionable -de1ty·than. the Lop flf
St. John. We find acknowledgments of dependence on
.DMnne Pf"'ffidMce, .. and. the blessing of or
PaoHETHEt.18, spoken of in oitr British parliament, occur-.
ring in .hie ·majesty's speeches, arid received ·with the
most respectful sentiment from one end of the 'kingdom to
the other, where the. introduction of the name Of Jesu&
Christ, in the plaoe
_ of that of .fromethewl or
would be r(tceived with an univenalllllirk of uadisguisea
eontempt. . · · ·..
The best information of the charaeter, attribuws, and
actions of this deity, is ·to be derived ·from the beautiful
·tragedy of ·or Promellatur_ . Bound, o(
lEschylus,• which ·was acted in the theatre of Athens,
500 years before the·Christian era1 is by many COJloo
sidered to be the most aneient dramatic poem now in
existence. The plot was derived from materials even at
that time of an infinitely remote antiquity. Nothing wae
.ever so exquisitely calculated to upon the feelings of
the spectator. , No author ever displayed ·greater.powe1'8
of poetry, with equal strength of judgment, in sup.
. through the pj.ece ·the august character ·of the
· The spectators therpeelves were inoon- ·
aciously made a party to the interest·of the setme : its
hero was tlafir friend, their benefactor, their creator, and
their 8G11iour ; his· wrongs were incurred in their quanel-
his sorrows were endured for their ·salvation ; "he w.as
·wounded for their transgression,, and bruised for .their
• Or Pou.r"allealdfid llullatin of i&, Of wbialll - aftl m,.el£
PBOJIJI:THEUI. 193
iniquities; the chastisement-of their peace wa8 upon him,
and by his stripes they were healed," (Isaiah liii. 5).
" He was oppressed and a1Bicted, yet he opened not his
mouth." The majesty of his silence, whilst the ministers
of an offended God were nailing him by the hands and
feet to Mount Caucasus, could be only by the
modesty with which he relates, while hangmg on .the
cross,• his services to the human race, which had
on Dim that horrible crucifixion :- .·
. ".I will 8 ak, .
Not as upbraiding them, bt my own gifts
.· Commending. 'Twas I w:ho brought sweet hope
T' inhabit in their hearts-1
The tire of heaven to animate thetr clay :
And through the clouds of barbarous ignorance
Diffused the beams 9f knowledge. · In a word, ·
PrometJteus taught each useful art to man."
In answer tO a call made on him; to explain how his
philanthropy could have incurred such a teffible punish-
ment, he proceeds :- · . . .
" See what, a god, I suffer from the goda !
For mercy to man\tind, I am not deemed
Worthy of mercy ; but ia this
Appointment, am fixed here,
A spectacle dishonourable to Jove !
On the throne of heaven scarce was he Seated,
on the powers of heaven .
He showered his various benefits, thereby
bis aovereignty ; but fur unhappy mortals
Had no· regard, but all the present race .
Willed to extirpate, and to form anew.
None, save my.elf, opposed hi& will.. I dared,
· And boldly pleading, saved them ·from deetruction-
Saved them from sinking tothe r:ealms of niaht ;
For which offence, I bow beneath these pains, ·
Dreadful to IUfrer, piteous to behold I" .
In the eatasttoophe of tne plot, his especially professed
friena, the Fisherman, as his name Petneus
indiea.tes, '(Pnuus· was an interchangeable synonyme
ofthe ·
n:a,rie Oceanus,) being unable tQ prevail on .him to .
Jfia'te his peace with Jupiter, by throwing cause of
out of his hands,t him and
:.• to the attitade or the Jllft'eier, Prometbeal mly be ealled
llh-GV(I.,.ttio,, or aroe•olomal'..o,, u w11ll u JBJilS.'
. .It 4l Tbla Petertoek him, and bepn to rebuke him, ayiJtc, Be i& Car hiD
._.._.: <tldu..ll aot be 1111to daei."--llau. x'ri. D. . . · · . ·•·,
18 .
Dig•tizca by Google
·:
fled." None remained ·to be witrlesse's· ·or hi&·' dying
agonies, but the chorus of eve:t: amiable and ev!eF-faithful
women · which also bewailed and ·lamented hl.m, '(Luke
.:Xxiii. 2'7,) but were unable .to subdue his inflexible
lanthropy. Overcome at length, by the intensity of his
pains, he curseS. Jupiter·in language hardly. different in
terms, and but little inferior in limblimity to the '{ Eloi, Elol,
lama sabacthani !" of the GospeL · And immediately the
whole frame of nattjre became convUlsed l the earth sl_look,
the rocks rent, the graves were .opened ; .and in a storm
that seemed to threaten the dissolution of the universe, the
curtain feU on the sublirn,est scene ever .presented to ·the
eontell.lplation of the human eye..:._.a DnNG GoD ! The
Christian muse has inspired our. modern poets with no
'strains on this theme, but such a:s bear the character of
plagiarism, parody, or paraphrase on the Greek tragedy.
A worshipper of .Prometheus would look in vain through
aU our collections of sacred poetry for a single idea whicll
his own forms of piety had not suggested, or a single
phrase whose reference would not seem: to him, to have
as direct an application· to god-roan of &schylust as
to the JesuS' ot-the Evangelists: · ,
" Lo, streaming from the fatal · ·
bloOa, ! .'. " ' . .
Is thiS tbe Jnfimte ?, 'TIS he-
. ProinetheiJs, and a Qod! .. ' . " · ., .·,;
Well might the sun jn·aarkn'ess hide,
And veil his glories.in,. · . ' . . .
WheQ God, the great Prometheus, died,
For man, the creature's sin.." .· ·-. · .
The preternatural darkness which t;he <.ll"UCi·
fixion of Prometheus, was natural..enough. as .exhibited
on the stage, .and is beautifully .descr.
ibed
of the tragedy; Nor is there.any difficulty in coilce1ving,
that when the mighty effect·of so deep a·tragedy on the
.and aentiments of the .audience, inex-
haustible snurce of wealth to. the performers, there .would
be found thoae who would shrewd.enough to .discover
. .the policy of enhancing and perpetuating . profitable an
impression on the vulgar mind, by maiAta.i.ni,ng that ,
was .much more than a mere .show.in the buSiness; that
it was .pn. of circumstances that .had really
happened ; that. Pl'ometheus. ·was a real persori.'age, and
had actually done,'· and suffered, .and spoken- as ·in so
lively a manner laa4l butuel bfl/ore.,_,; that·ibe trapd7
. r. !
'
wa8 a into.metre ; and th,p.t nothing but " an
eftl Mart of unbelief" could induce any man to doubt
" 1M of 1/w&e. things tDI,.erein 'M had been instructed.,.
It Ul probably no more.than a figure of speech, though cer-
tainly very injudiciously chosen, in which Origen calls the
crucifixion of Christ the most awful tragedy that .was ever.
acted.* .. · . · . . ·
But the preteqce of the_r.eality of the event would break
down, in·the_jlldgment of the informed, from the
total want of. evidenoe. to support that part of the detail,
which, had it been real, oould.not have wanted the elear-
est and most crinstraining demonstration. . The darkness
which closed _
the scene on the suffering Prometheus, was
easily exhibited on the stage, by putting out the_
'lamps ;
but when the tragedy was tO become history,. and the
fiction to be turned·into the lamp, of day oould not
be so easily disposed of. Nor can it be denied that the
miraculous darkneas·which the· Evangelists so solem.nly
de,elare to ha,ve attended -t.he crucifixion of Chriet, labours
under·precisely the same ·fatality of an absolute and total
want of evidence. . . . _
.
Gibbon, in his usual strain of sarcasm and irony, keenly
asks, " How shall we excuse the supine inattention of
the pagan and philos9phic world to thOse evidences which
were presented by the hand of Omnipotence, not to their
reason, .but'to the4- ? This miramilpus event7 which
ought to have excited the wonder,.the : ,.·and the
devotion of man.find,,passed notice in an age of
and .history. · It during.the lifetime of
Seneca and the elder Pliny, .who must have ,experienced
·the immediateeffects, or recejved the_
earliest intelligence
of the prodigy. Each of these p.hilosophers, in a laborious
work,: reporded all tht; great phmnomena of nature-:-
earthquakes, .meteors, .comets, .and eclipses, which hie
indefatigable curiosity could collect ; both the one andthe
othett mention the greatest phmnomenon
·to the mor:tal has been witn,eas since the crea-
tion.o£ the globe."'7"""Gibb0f',.vol. 2, ch. 15, p. 879. '
This-objection.of (}ib'brin.is answered by Bishop._wat-
•ltis to 27;' · What other than this ill the sellfl8 of thoee
words of-the· a}iostofic· chief of simnn, " 0 foolish GalatiiiDI, .- who hath h-
IDitehed you, that ye should not obey the truth, before toliNe Jeeu Chrilt
bath been evidently .a forth crucified among you ?"'-Gal. iii. 1. Surely, it
wu not in the c:oUDtry of the Galatillii!I that Christ waa crucified ; nor could be
lave ldn set forth .before their and etJidently, otherwise than l;ly a pictlml,
orin a thea&rieal represeatation _!
Dig•tizcd by Google
I
PURl'a&n..
son, in double-wtftdre paragraph, which opens with the
curious tDOrd to the 2Dile, that " though he was aware he
was liable to be misunderstood in what he was going to
eay, yet .Mr. Gibbon would riot him." Then
follows the most extraordinary declaration of hil! OWll,
(a bishop's) faith,·" that however mysterious the dark-
ness at the crucifixion migM have be.en, he had no doubt
the power of God was as much eQncerned.in its'production,
as it was in the opening of the graves, and the resurrection
of the dead bodies of tl).e saints that slept, whieh accom-
panied that darkness.,_Third. utter t& qibbtm, lest para-
graph. · ,Another way df saying, eTery sensible man
must perceive that one part of the.story was just as pro-
bable as the other, or ·that it was a romanee·altogether.
The good Bishop ventw:ed to trust his security to fhe
well-proved truth of the adage, " ·.None are 'BO blind aa
those who teill Mt see."
The immoral and mischievous tendeney of the dootrine
of atonement for sin, so acceptable to guilty tninds, and 80
'eagerly embraced by the greatest monsters of iniquity, had
been preached by self-intere1;1ted priests, and reprobated
by all who wished well to mankind, long before that doc-
trine was dedl;Ieed from the Christian be-
' fore those Scnptures are to MTe been wnttea.·
Before the period 888igned to the of Christ, the
poet Ovid had the demomtizing delWiion With tbe
most powerful shafts of philosophic scorn : · .
"Cum 1la ipee nocenl, moritur car'\'ietima pm te?
·Stllltitia ee& IDOI1e aJteria alutem." .
'' When thou t/rqaelf aw guilty, vhy slwtdtl· • Me for
thte ? What folly tt· i8 to upeet from tu dt4th of
another,"
·No particle of difficulty remains, then, in aceounting for
the fact, that in that portion of the Acts of Apoetles in
which the miraculous .tyk is diecontimied, and we eo
Clearly trace the probable and most likely real ,adventures
or of a mieeion'!rr sent out from the of the
Egyptian Therapeuts JOined on as an appendix to I!IOme
fragment of their sacred legend& which detailed the ·mys-
tical adventures of the supposed first founders of
order, whose example the missionary was to have ' con-
tinually before him,•-we should read, that when the
• Tbia appeadix eomaienees ia the 18th chapter, where we find Saul ia the
million at Antioch, and preaehing again, One of the lllli'IIIODI wbicb lfad beea
before ucribed 1o Peter. ·
• o19, izcd by Coogle
I
j
..
197
aptistoJic . ·attempied to preach his dOctrine of
" JUIJ8 OA.ritt and him·crucifod," at Athens, he found that
the Athenians Were· already in possession all he had to
commanicate, and that what he was ·endeavouring to set
oft"as a doctrine newly revealed, was'With them avery old
story. He brought to ears thing."• The
and Stoical philosophers were more at home
than himself upon thafsubject, and caJJed llim "a babbkr,"
the very term that most expressively designates the·cha-
racter of a doting who, in the arrogance of his
own conceit, will be for ·ever foisting up old stories· of a
hundred.thousand years-standing., and swearing that they .
had occurred in. his own experience, and had happened to
nobody else but some particular acquaintances of his.
The majority, however, carried the vote that he should
have a .fair hearing, and Paul .was a1Jowed to preach in the
Areopagus• The previous rebuke he had received had
completely subdued his impertinence ; he no more pre-
sumed to lay claim to originality' in the crucifying story.
He· preached 'PUJ.l:& DErsM, quoted their .poets, and
ventured not once so much as to name hu JeBttS; or to
make an allusion tnat could·be construed as referring tq
him rather than tc,> any other of the god-men or man-gods
who had risen (rom the -dead as well as he·. (Acts xvii). ·
. exac,tly .answering 'to the Christian per-
sonificatiqn.faovtpENCE, is, like that personification, used
sometimes as 8J,l - epithet syn·onymous with the ·Supreme .
, Deity hliD,$elf. The ·Pagan phrase, ." Thank ·Prometh:etia,'•
IiJte the Christian 'Tii.ank 'Prot;iJence," ·its literal
the', Thank God!"
Thus .m The. 0RPH•c . Hymn. to Chtonus or Satu.rn,t we
have this. sublime address to the Supreme Deity under
his .Prometheus, Father, both
of gods_
and o_f Yl).riO'il!!,of spot-
• Aeta xvii. 18. . '· , . ·
t See _tbe original in F..ebenbaehi•'• edit. p. 110. Compare allo my le&lllfl!J aud
&llliable edition in oricinal Greek inlcription.typee, cast at hill own expe1118.
t similar epithets," P'ariotU of Comutl," •r VariMu In del\fn,"
·" 2'orlUDtu in e-el.'' :woald JqBtify tile doqtrine,1bat the Trinity "" ·
in this Promethell8 .the·.]lOwer of God, IUid Promethell8 the
wisdom of God.'! (1 Cor. i. .24.) "His name. aliall be called; Wonderful
COIDIIIellor, the mighty Gc;d." (lA. iz. 8',) ·LaetaiJtiDJ admltl, that thoup
what die poetli deliYered COilO\!I'IIinc ltte creaUOn of .IDllll Will.f19mlpted> it WIB
dilitreQt ip eftltet from tmtb u held by C:briati&Dis ; f11r in that ·they
man was created out of clay. by PROIIIETHEUII', they were noi
as to·the.fact, but only as tO the name·orthe Cieator.-Lactcmt: ImtU.
Jt.·u:c:'IO•...:..R'brlliolto Pag4110 Obtrectafore, Cttamep 84.' ·. ,:, ·.· .
18• . > •
f
Dig•tizcd by Google
198 'I'BJ: IIGllf 01' 'I'll& .CaOII.
less, pOwerful, mighty Titan, whO conswnett ..aJI thinaa.
and again thyself repairest them, who boldestthe ineffaote
bands throtighout the boundless world ; thou universal pa•
rent of successive being7 various in design,.fruetifierof the
earth and·of.the starry heaven, DREAD PaoMETBEua, who
dwellest in •all. parte of the ·world, author of generation,
tortuous in counsel, most 'excellent, hear our suppliant
voice, add send of our life a happy blameless end." Amen !
CHAPTEB: XXIX.
THE SIGK 01' THE CROSS.
llfiLE was worshipped as a by the. inhabitants
of the countries fertilized by its mundations, before all
records of human opinions oractions. PkW, whoflourished
348 years before the Christian era, records, that Egyp-
tian priests had pointed out to him on their pyramids the
symbolical hieroglyphics of a religion which had existedin
orthodoxy among them for upwards of ten
thousand years. has the progress of Christianity or
civilization, even at this day, entirely abolished the reli-
gious honours paid to this.king of streams. The priests
called the Cophtes still think that they " sanctify ita
W'ateni to the mystical washing away ofsin," by throwing
into it some or some bits of a crou ; as in our own
baptismal service hi the church of England ·at this day,
the priest spreads his hand·over the font, and uses the
words, " Sanctify this water to the mystical Wa&h!ng
away of sin ; " and then sprinkling the water8Q sanctified
in the child's face, and makina-the sign of the cross upc)n
its forehead, he adds, " We.cfo sign hitn with the sign of 1
the &c. . · · .
THE SIGN. 01' . THE CROSS ENTIRELY PAGAN.
Tlie holy father Minuoiua Felix, in hie .OotaviU8, written
as early as the year 211, indignantly resents the RUppoei·
tion that the of the cross should be considered as ex·
elusively a Chrietian.symbol ;· and repl'eeents'bieadvocaie
of the Christian argument, as retorting on an infidel
nent, " As for the ado:ration of "rosses, which you object
against us, I mQIJt tell you, that we neither adore crouei
198
nor desire them ; you it ie-, ye who W'OI'IIhip_
wooden gods, who are the most likely to adore
wooden crosses, as being, parts of the same substance
with your deities. For what else are your ell8igns, ftage,
and standards, but orosees gilt and beautified. Your
Victorious trophies not only represent a simple 01'088, but ·
a cross with a man upon it. The sign of a cl'088 .naturally
appears in a ship, either when she is under sail,. or rowed
with expanded oars like the palm of our hands. Not a
jugum erected but exhitiits the sign of a ; and when
a pure worshipper adores the true with hands ex..
tElnded, he makes the same figure. Thus you see that the
sign of the cross has either some foundation in nature, or
in your own and therefore ought not to be objeot-
ed·against Christians."• .
Meagher, a Popish priest, who eame over &om .the
Roman Catholic communion, and attached himself (for
what reasons, or with what motives, mwrt rest with him-
self alone) to the ministry of the church of fur-
nishes us with the most satisfactory prototype or what he
had come at last to consider as a corrupt Christianity, in
the idolatrous worship of the Nile. The ignorant grati-
tude of a superstitious people, while they adored the river
on whose inundations the fertHity of their provinces de-
pended, coul(). not faU· of attaching notions of sanctity
and holiness to the posts .that. were· erected ita
course, and which, by a trcJnsi,tru indicated the hetght
to which, at the spot where the beam was fixed, the watera
lnight be expected to rise. This er088 ·at once the
traveller to secure his safety, and formed a standard of
the value of the land. Other riven may add to the fertility
of the country through· which they pase, but theNilei11 the
cause·of that great fertility of Lower Egypt,
which would be all a desert, ·as bad as the most sandy
parts of Africa, without this river. It supplies it both
with soil and and · therefore gratefully ad·
dressed, not merely al!l an ordinary river-god, but by ite
express title of the Egyptian Jupiter. The cro88es, there-
fore, aJong the ba,nks of the river, would naturally 11hare
in the honours of the stream, and be the most exprel!sive
emblem of good fortune, peace, and plentr. The t-.o
ideas could ne\"er be separated : the fertilizmg. flood wu
• BeeYea'l Apologies of &be Fatbera, Ito. m. 1, p. 189. Thil lleYel'elid Mt.
Lnea it DqUilioaable authorit7 for the text of the orthodox Fatben 1 ia which
.. COIIkl DO& be 'lt'I'OIII· We may be allowlll however to q-.-tioa hil
n.. Jle wollld pllllliade 111 dial, Gil tlac lacretict ate children.
.
o;9,tized byGoogle
JOO. T81l. llGlf OJ' T.Bil <:ao11.
the tlldlen of lifo, that every blessing, . and even
existence itself, to the provincee which they .
flowed. ·
One ?ther and most obvious hieroglyph. completed the.
express1ve allegory : The Demon_ of Fam•ne, who; should
the waters fail·of their inWldation, or not reach the·eleva-
tion indicated by· the .position of the tri:!JlSverse beam .
upon the upright; wQuld reigri. in all his horrors over their
desolated lands.· This ·symbolical was,
therefore, l'epreeented aa a miserable emaciated wretch,.
who had grown up " ae a tender plallt, and as a root out
of a ·dry ground; who had no form nor comeliness ; and
when they should see him, there was po beauty that they
should desire him." Meagre his looks ; sharp misery
had worn him to the bone. His crown of'· thorns. indicated
the sterility of the territories over which he reigned•. The
meed in his hand, gatqered from the banks of the indi-
cated, that jt was only the mighty river, by within
its banks, and thus withholding its wonted mumfi.oence,
that placed an unreal sceptre in his He was
to the cross, in indication of liis entire defeat ; and the
of his infa.mOus title, " Tau u THE KING oF
THE -Jt:ws," expressively indicated, that .libmine, W.ant, or
POfJtf'ty, ruled.the destinief!l of the most slavish, beggarly,
and mean-spirited race. of. men with whom they had the
aonc;>ur of beinff acquainted. .
·Madame Dae1er, in .her edition of Plato, quotes author-
ities in ptoof ·when Plato visited the priests .
showed him tae symbols of a religion wh1cli, they alleged,:
had continued in, observance among their ancestors for
upwards of ten thousand years. . . , :. .
. 'From the way il;l which it WJ18 to M. Dupuis,
.tllat the mythologies and astrollomioal allegqries of the
aacients were with the periodical return of the·
seasons, he ·was induced to suppose tha.t they must have:
originated in where the a.nnual or
deluge wae marke4 in so peculiar a .manner ; 'and all
i.Wications, it be admitted,; pdint tQ
£1f!Y 88 tlle &lld cradle of Religion. But it
h8s happened.not to .to the qiM. Dupuis, :
to ecclesiastical writers, that with the variation ,of a
few weeks only1 the Ganges and the .Indu11 prqduce pre:-
oisely similar phenomena to those of tl)e Nile. And it is
·in a very pecruliar mann.er .worthy. of.consideration, that .
a colony ftom India arriving in ·Egypt, eo far .from finding
.. ' . . ', .. . . . ..
Dig•tizcd by Google
'11111 . ••• or TM .ea•••·
their eouniry's superstition di!lcounged by d.ieslmilarity
of would finti every circumatance of season
and · climate favourable to it1 tending to recall the same
8880ciations of idea, and to. fV.Ulctify the abaurdities
of practice. · ·
The most leamed antiquaries. agree in holding it un-
questionable that Egypt was colonized from India. It
received one or- the earlies.t swarms of emigrants froJQ. the
'Bactrian hive. . And thue, even if we had not the proof
we have: yet to -adduce, of the actual imporl4ticm by the
.monks of Alexandria, would tqe BUperstitions of India
get footing in Eerpt; the Chrishna of the Ganges would
become the ChriSt of the Nile ; and the priests be left to
Do better expedient to disguise the refil origin of their
figment, than by transporting him again .to the
banks of the Jordan; The first drat\ of the mystical
.adventures of.Cluishna, as brought from India into Egypt,
was TnE Du:aEsu ; the versiqn of the Diegesis was
the GosPEL. A.ccoJU>rNG TO THE EGYPTIANs ; the first ren-
derings out of the of Egypt into that of Greece,
the purpose of.imposing on . nations of.Europe,
apocrwhal gospels;· the corrected, and
, .1111lhoriled versiOns of these apocryphal _com_pllat10ns were
the gospels of our four evangelists. ·
It should.never be forgotten, that th£ siP. of.the eros•, for
anter1or to the Augustan . el,'a, was m common use
among the Gentiles. . It :was the most sacred .symbol of
Egyptian. idolatry. It is on. most of the Egyptian obe-
lisks,. and was believed to possess all the .devil-expelling
virtues which have s.i.nce been aSCribed to it by Christians.
The monogiam,.or symbol of the god Saturn, was the
of the cr088, together.with a ram's born, in indication of
the Lamb-of God. Jupiter also bore a cross with a horn,
Venus a cross with a Circle. The famous Crux aruma is to
be seenin all the buildingS of Egypt; and. the most cele-
brated temples of the idol .Chrishna in India, like our
Gothic cathedrals, were built in the form of crosses. .
.· The sip of !M Cf'ou is the very mark which in Ezekiel,
ix. 4, the Lord commands his messenger to " go through
th.t midst of Jerusalem, a.d..nt tM Jorehe4ds of #le meta
t1&at Bigk, and tllat C'I'Y f,. all ·the abontiMI'ions that be done i"
th.t midst thereof.,,. Ilut here, as in a thousand other
places, our English rendering protulafttizes, for the purpose
I of disguising the papistieal sense, just as their immediate
t · the paptist8, had set them the example ol
Dig,tizcd by Google
• TB& IIIJN or TIIK· CBOI._
Wi;lianirifig whatever came in their way, for.the pu1'POII8
of conCealing the Pagan
On a Ph<.enician .medal found in the o( Citium, '
and engraved iQ. Dr. Clarkele Travels, and proved by him :
to be Ph<.enician, are inscribed not only the. erose, but the
rosary, or string of beads, attached to it, .together with
the identical lAmb of G6d, vl&ic4 kWJ/&.. tniGY tM liu Bj 1M .
uorld.
I "How it eame to pass," saysdle piotu Mr. Skelton, " that
the Egyptians, Arabians, and Indians, bejtWt Christ came
1 among. us, paid a:remarkable veneratio!l to sign of the
1 cross, 1s to me unknown ; but the fact 1tself 18 known. In
1 some places this sign was given to men who had been ao-
ieosed of crime, but acquitted upon trial ; and in Egypt it
, stood for the of t.lemal life."• 0 ChrisU&n
revelation, what 18 it that thou hast revealed ? ' ·
THE CBBIBTI.UU, .WORSHIPPERS OF THE GOD SER..&.PTW.
But it is more than evidence of this character· that
summons our admiration in the charge of &rdpidolatry,
or the worship of the god Serapis, which was
brought against the primitive Christians, by no
accuser, no bigotted intolerant reviler, but by that philo-
sophic and truth-respecting witness, the emperor Adrian.t
In a certain letter which he writes, while in the couree of
his travels, to the Consul Servianus, he states, that he
found the worshippers of the ·god Serapis in that country
distinguished by the name of Christians. · "Those," l;te
says, " who worship Serapis, are Christians ;' and
who are especially consecrated to Serapis; call themselYes
the bishops of Christ." In relief of which' eharge, the
learned Kortholt, from wnose valuable work-, the Paganus l
Obtrectator, I have taken this passage, pleads, and in-
deed it might be so, that when this emperor was in Egypt,
some of the Christians, actuated·by fear, concealing their
true religion for a season, might have held out an appear·
ance of having embraced·the superstition of the
Thus in the Ancient Martyrology, in 1he history of lpi-
'
Dig,lizcd by Google
m£ tiG.l'f or ..-a& caoss.
charmus,_ an. martyr, it is related that all the
Christians in Alexandria, upon the coming of a cruel
judge, either or l?retended to be stilUollowers
ofthe Pagan 1mp1ety .: and 1f the approach ofa judge only
could produce this etfect, it is no :wonder that the coming or
the emperor himsE1lf, and he, as they all knew, being a most
,strenuous asserter of the Gentile superstitions, should.
have a similar effect•. In Socrates's History of Constan-
tine, he how that most holy emperor went about to
promote the Christian religion, and to banish the rites and
ceremonies of the Ethnics, he set up his own image in their
idolatrical temples : and there prevailed a
general belief of the of pt that it was the god
Serapis who caused the river ile to overflow and fer-
tilize their country, in honour of which, a certain ell (the
upright post with the transverse beam which had been
used to measure the and extent of the inundation)
was annually brought With ceremonies into the
of the god Serapis, the emperor commanded that
ell to be brought into.the church of Alexandria. Upon
this prOfanation, the Egyptian people had wrought them-
selves ·up to the too-critical belief, that the Nile w<>uld
resent the indignity, and no more condescend to overdow
his banks as usual ; thereby ,subjecting themselves to a
BOrt of miracle, which. was pretty safely promised them
beforehand·; for, behold ! on the following year the .river
dii not only..overflow after his wonted manner, and from
that time forth keep his course, (0 most miraculous of all
miracles !) but also did thereby declare unto the world
that Nilus was accustomed to overflow. not after their su·
pei'Btitious opinion. but by the determination of
Divine Providence.t . .
Notwithstan<Ung, however, this adoption of the Pagan
B'nnbol of· the cross into the Christian church, and the
npid propagation of 'Christianity, it was not till after the
commencement of the fifth century, when the emperor
'.1\eodosius had given the exterminatory business, by com-
Into the hands of Theophilus bishop ·or Alex-
.an!lrla, that it was completed with something like epis-
OOpal vigour. "By the procurement and industry of
'Tlieophifus the bishop, the commanded that all ·
'1he idol groves of the Ethnics within Alexandria should
Jon to the ground, and that Theophil\ls should oversee
• JCOnbolt ia codem loco. t 1, c. 14.
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
J04 IIGN .f¥' THE C&OII• .
it. Theophilus, being thus authorized, omitted nothing
that might tend to the reproach and contumely .of'hea·
thenish ceremonies : down goes the terpple .of Mithra,
with all its idolatrical filthand superstition :· down goes the
god.Serapis ; their embrued an:d bloody mysteries are pub-
licly derided ; their vain and ridiculous practices are pub-
licly ridiculed in the open,market-place, to theirutter shame
and· ignominy."• I need not continue this hideous pas-
sage'through the description which follows, and was sure
to follow, of the sanguinary horrors in which it ·
To deny that Christianity was and hath been the reli-
gion of sword from ffrst to last, and hath been propa-
gated and sustainedby means of·violence and fraud, and
by no other means, or to assert that there ever was on
or could have ·been any other religion that ever
made its profes8ors of all eoiifl and ijl all ages, one so
savage, so bloody, and so wicked, is, as it were, to IJ.!!ISert
any thing, to trample all evidence of and histolj
under foot, to deny the. existence of the sun, to deny that
.the jury who convicted the Rev: Robert Taylor of blas-
pheming their Lora Jesus Christ" ,
BY FoRc.E AND. ARMs,''
were a perjured. jury, to <l!:lny that there is any gaol at
Oakham, .any innocent man in that gaol, or truth in truth
its.tM. .
THE- 81Qfi .OF THE CROSS FOUND IM TEMPLE OF .
SERAPiS.
"In the temple of Serapis, now overthrown and ri1led
throughout, there· were found erigraven in the stones cer-
tain letters which they call hieroglyphical ·; the manner of
engraving.resembled .the form of the cross. The
which, when both .Christians. and Ethnics beheld: before
every one appliedthein to his proper The
Christians affirmed that the cross was a sign or token of
the.passion of Christ, and the proper symbol·of their pro-
fession. The Ethnics ·avouched that therein was con-
1ained something in common, belonging aa 10eU to 8erapu
'88 to Christ ; _
and that the sign of the cross signified one
thing ·unto the Eilmics, and another to the'Christians.-
While they contended thus about the meaning of these
hieroglyphicallet_ters,t many of the Ethnics became Chria-
. .•·Soera•Sehol. Jib,..&, tl• .16. . .
·t Weeee.at&biaday,
eagraved ia all our repreeentatiollll or the It il 0.,.,.,.
tJ.ey woald be¥ aay<1ther readiDc I!' well u tbat which Cbril&iaD conceit m&J
pre them. · · · · .
Dighizcd by Coogle
'J'BE IIG!f OJ' 'l'BE caou.
· tianl, for they perceived at lengt}l the sense and meaning
of thoae letters, and that they prognosticated salvation,
and LirE TO COME."•
This most important evidence of the utter indifference
between Christianity and any, even the grossest forms of
the ancient Paganism, is supplied by a Christian historian ;
and independent of its fairness, as taken from such a
eource, and its inherent versimilitude, is corroborated by
a parallel passage from the ecclesiastical history of Sozo-
menes, who, about the yeBit 443, wrote the history of the
church from the reign of Constantine the Great to that of
the younger Theodosius. ·He is speaking of the temple of
the god Serapist-" It is reported that when this temple
was destroyed, there appeared some of those characters
called hieroglyphics, surrounding the sign of 1/u cron, in
engraven stones ; a.nd that, by the skilful in these matters,
these hieroglyphics were held to have signified this inscrip-
tion-THE LIFE TO COME I .And this became a pretence
for becoming Christiane to many of the Grecians, because
there were even other letters which signified this sacred
end when this characterappeared."
Thus in every genuine historical document, we are con-.
tinually met by evidence of the superfluous prodigality •of
miracles, and that offence against the laws of the drama,
as well as of historical probability, which makes a god ap-
pear where there was no knot worthy of a god. The Pa-
sans, eo far from needing miracles to convert them, were
at all times ready to embrace any new faith- : no
trick CQuld be foo gross to fail ofsuocess on their easy cre-
dulity. They· really had not the CAPACITY of inflicting
martyrdom : they were ready to be winked and whistled
into Christianity.-Socrates continues his aooonnt :
•.1•Ia...., ,....,"1'011 %tf!IJ1raloc .tvol<"'"'• ,,., flll'toovi<•"ov, tzllf!ljTO .,.,,_
To•c Tat •l(!oylvf•••· Hr11n le oa Xllf!lllt"I''II/•C «Pra1q..,.
IJWhC T111r011C• Towovc oq..,....•c Xq&«Praatooa n ""' B.Uif"•f, TIJ alaa,
Xqi«PrlMOl ,.... Yllf! f1'JI'Il0t' TOll ltCTG Xqof1Toll acxmw,OJ<Iov,
,......., """' .teron•c TOP «Prallf!o.., o••i•o.. """' Tn xllf!an'lf!" ...o,.aco... Ell'I"''
• ft-.,. Xq•«Pr• , .., %1(/111rl lada,..,., 11 o «PrG11f!Oil8'1r XIJ(!Cit"l''l(/, oUo
U.Uo le B.1.t'Jf1• nollaTa& To Tow... I•
nw B.Utz"..,. T• Til "l!or111f•- n
llrlft..,.oa, luf!l'lf1'1110to"I'IC TOP «Prav(/oe•I.IJ Xllq&lt"I'IJ(/4• B.teyn
Eecl. Hilt. lib. ll, 0. 17. . •
•f ....... H "Tf111· - "I'OIITOII, TIN ....... 1tiJ10111<1-
.....ll'ftqllC, l)'ltiXIJf!GYI'"'OII."I'OlC """"IJ"If1'"'' IItJf! 17CUIT'JI'0,._
•Tn...6e al<'l""' -r-a.mp ....,..YI!Gflf" ZS2HN BIIBPJCOMBNHN
tlllrrt • 7rqoyllf1•• 1ro.Uooc T..,. e.l.llf1'&«Pr..,.: 1tat
fti!HGTa n"'fll TOII"I'O TO 11(/0P "floolel tp«Pr&to aiJr.lov, tp&ltG 011"1'01 0 .fcmt•
-Iii. I,cap. 16. . .
19
Dig,tizcd by Google
TBE ium Ol' ·'!'Bit caNt.
--· ''-The Christiane perceiving that this.mrul•·VfiP!f JBUeJ.
for their religion, made great account · aDd: weN
not a little proud of it. When as by other hieroglyphifta&
letters it was gathered, that the temple of Serapis ahouJd
go to ruin when the sign· of the Cl'OSS therein engraven
eame to light (by that LIJ'E '1'0 COME W88 furesbewed),
many more embraced the Christian religion, oonfesaecl
their sins, and were baptized. Thm much have I learned
of·the cross.""-And thus far quote I from the Eoolesiae-
tical History of Socrates, a Christian historian, who lived
and wrote about A. n. 41!-, the eonteinporaey of D811181R18
bishop of. Rome,' of Chrysostom of Constantinople, and of
tlie events which he has here ?eeorded. Though the god
- stood in so immediate a relation to the Nile, his
worship was by no means confined to Egypt ; he waa wor-
shipped not only in Egypt and in·Greece,.but also at
.Rome,-and sometimes considered ae one and the 1811le u
Jupiter Ammon, sometimes as identical with Pluto, Bao-
chus, lEsculapius, Osiris,f. and Jesus Christ. }t1is oertaiD,
however; that his most magnificent temple was at JlJa...
dria in Egypt, whence all our most distinguished Christiul
Fathers and writers derived .education ; that the
bishops of Serapis, as they alone'were justly entitled to
be called bishops of while Alexandria W'88 a
Pagan city, yet called of Chriet; awi
though Christianity can in no reasonable> sense- be said tQ
have been established in Alexandria while the- temple of
Serapis remained-and· Tillemont admits that the -.err
first Christian church that was ever built, of which histGry·
gives us any certain and express infor.mation, was founded
by Gregory the wonder-worker, A. n. 244, or B.fter-.
tftM
have we an uninterrupted.succe8sion ef bish-
ops of Alexandri
. ·a from the evangelist Mark, who we are
required to.believe was the.lirst of them, downwa.r.dei•..
Jews, it seems; took Serapis to be identioal with the patri-
areh Joseph the son of · ·
In all the representations ·ofthe- crucified, King
Jews that have eome down to· us, the essential requisitea
of the Egyptian have been most
preserved. · The nbs of the figur.e are aliDQSt breBtkiug
through his and it seems doubtful whether ihe being
• Lib. 8, c. 11, p. 848: Londo Ed. UDO·l849.
t Pomer De Diillrufiae:t, p. 268. ·
t Qlloted in Larduer'a Cn!dibiiJtr, YOL it p. IN.
I Qalli cmo. · I •
Dig,lizcd by Google
eo N9=8titatecl achleJ of betbre be Wa.e tia11ed to
the111'018, .az. Md'·e:ty*ed·under the iftOOnveniences of that
uaeotitb'.,.,ooltment. · But the moet extraordinarr piKe- ·
OOMenoa ·attendmg this myf!!tical personification, ts, that
his hieroglyphio&l history wi\1 be found te dove-tail ex-
actly iB'CO all the and apparently contradietol'f
deveiopenleoate •of the Christian theology. Thus the erose
WWR btit the figure upon it W88 made a ttne ; and
accordingly, 88 it was the eroes, or the erucified, that waa
refelftd to, so shall we find it, even in the same writings,
spR:en ofh the blessed cross or the aeeUJ'8ed crou, 88 a
badge of or of of joy or of sorrow, of
'UIIlph dr of lmBliliation.
•
......
CHAPTER
THE TAtJRIBOLIA
WERE 11801'ifioes, which were renewed every
twenty years, and conferred the highesi degree.of holineee
and sanctification on the parttlkers of those holy mysterj.ee.
Prudentius informs us, that in these ceremoniee
the priests, or 1Vhoever \vas ambitious of obtainiJl«
a mystical REGENERATION, excavated a pit, into whioh he
descended. The pit W88· then covered over with planJm,
wh.icb. wete bereclJu,ltof holes, so that the blood ·and tMa&
tae1 of the got.t, bull, or ram that wasaorifioed upon them,
m.ipt tricKle thro1J8h the ·holee upon the body of the·pera .
IG1l benelath ; who, .having been thu sanctified, and 00,.
agwin, was obli,ted ever.after to walt in fltftUit ef life ; to .
maintain a eondU'Ot of the most inflexible virtue ; to •hal
JartA prM, 1klt eraly with lit lipt, 6Ut ia 1W life, by pn"f
'1' lri111118lf fo GM'•Itf"ffiee ; mad bywtii/Mg 6t.fim him ita holif&UI
ail
Pette.-, in hm Antiquitier, informs us, that the
Athenians had a lees otfensive way than this to convey the
spmtdal bles8ednel!l8 Of · ;I'he penon desiroua
of it, whether male or fetnale; wu shpped tl)rough a cha-
racteristic part of the female habiliments, and thenceforth
recognized as one who had been hom again. The only ob-
servable coincidence of ·the .Tauribolia with the great
sacrifice of Chrirrtianity, consists in the fact, that the
grossest sense of the terms in which the ·Pagan obscenity
Dig,tizcd by Google
I llA.H'I... .
can be described, finds.ita excuse, if not its eae.eti6oatioll,
by its adoptipn. into. the text of our New Testament,
where we read of "1M blood ej lpl"inkling, t1aat bet-
ur.·things thaA the blood of Jlbel," (Heb•. ::rli 24) ; and
"auiNKLING of the blood of Jesus Christ," (1 Pet. i. .2).
" And if the blood.of bulls and goats, and the t6hat-not of
an heifer, SPJUNKLING the unclean, sanctifieth to the puri-
fying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ
purge your consciences." . · . .
Thus.preci8ely the same effects of an imaginary spirit-
ual are ascribed to precisely the same R4Biy
in_gredjents-blood, 4-'c.,..-used in precisely same mode
of applioation-6prinkling. It 1114Y be that we, of more
• civilized times, and more exalted ideas, have acquired the
art of producing refined sweets out of these grossnesses ;
but we have no right to forget that our chemistry was en-
tirely unknown to those to whom thi1language was at first
propounded. They who were to be. converted by: it from
their Paganism into the new religion, have had the
one put upon them in the place of the other, without their
ever being able tO perceive the diJI'erence: · ·
. ' CHAPTER XXXI•
BAPTISM.
•,
TaB Bapte, or Baptists, were ari efFeminateanddebauch-
ed order .of priests, to the.goddess Cotytto, the
tiMiwte Venus, in opposition and contradistinction to the
oelestial deity of that name, who was.eYer attended with
tke Graces, and whose wo1'8hip tended to elevate and ex-
alt the moral character, and to 8anctify the commerce of
treneration with all that is delicate in sentiment and tender
m affection. No wo1'8hipper of Venus could endure the
thought of impurity. Neglect of the holiness which her
rites enjoined was ever punished with degradation of mind
and loss.of beauty and health.• The Baptists are satirV.ed
by Juvenal.. They take their name·from their stated dip-
and by way of purification, though _
itseems
•·Tbe mali after God'• own laeut e:diibiiB himlelf'u an awfu!'instance ofthe
ftage&nCe of'Ve111111 on.oDe who tlln:led tbe pee ofGod (for
''Be thou God,",or Godd-) illto lucivioaen-: "My woiUids etink and are
corrupt, through my lueivio- ; neither is there any 1St in illy bou•• by ,._
IOD of my lin."-Palm xuyili. , .
Dig•tizcd by Google
IAPTIITI.
they were dipped in warm water, and were to be made
clean and pure, that they might wallow and defile them-
selves the more, as their nocturnal rites consisted chiefloy
oflascivious dances and other abominations. .The Bap-
tists, or Anabaptists, .as they are called, continue as an
. order of religionists. Christians, under precisely th.e
same name. The hcentlous character of the order of reli-
gionists from whom they are descended, has received its
correction from the improved intelligence, and, conee-·
quently, improved morality of the times. But the most
unquP.ationable evidence confirms the fact, that the Chris-
tian Baptists of Germany, in·the fourteenth century, and
sometime before and after, came short of no impurities
that could .have characterized the Antinomian priests of
Cotytto.
AITllOLOGICA.L CHAllACTEJl OP JOHN THE BAPTUT.
The character of John the Baptilt, like all the other
personages of the Gospel story, presents precisely the
same analogy to the system of astronomy which we trace
in every personification of the ancient heathenism. Like
all the other geniior saints, he presides over his particular
day, or, rather, in mythological language, vthat day ; and,
as if no room for doubt as to his identity should be left, the
calendars attached to our church of England prayer-book
have fixed that day as the 24th o( June, the seaeon pecu-
liarly adapted to baptimal or bathiAgl, precisely the day on
1 which the sun has exhibited one degree of descent from
his highest elevation, and which stands directly over and
looks down upon the 25th of December, the day fixed for
the birth ofChrist, when he first appears to have .gained
one degree of ascent from his lowest declension. In exact
accordance with which astronomical positions, we find
the gmitu of the 24th of June (St. John) looking down
upon the genius of the 26th of December (tM mtD bona
Juus), and saying, " He .must increase, but I must de-
crease," (John iii. SO), as the days begin to lengthen &om
the 25th of December, and to decreaseor shorten from the
!4th of June downwards, till they reach the shortest, of ·
which the genius or saint is the unbelieving'Thomae.
The )earned and inge}\ious historian of the Celtie
Druids, of whose labours I have greatly availed myself,
maintains that " the Essenes were descended from the
prophet Elijah, and the Carmelite monks from the Eseenes,.
19• '
Dig,tizcd by Google
JIO BAPTIITS,.
whose were established befiwt the Christiaa
era ; that these monks, finding that from time immemorial,
a.eertain day.had been held sacredto thegod SoL, the Sura,
as his birth-day, and that this god was distinguishedby.the
epithet Tn£ LoRn, persuaded theiRBelves that this LoRD
could be no other than their Lord God : whereupon they
adopted the religious rites of this Lard, and his supposed
birth-day,- December the 25th, became a Christian festival,
Paganism being thus spliced and amala'amated into Chris-
tianity." I only take the liberty of ditreringfrom this good
Christian writer so far as to deny that there could be any
splicing or amalgamation, where it was aU Or&t piece. The
great sophism oi Christianity consists in the pretence of a
. distinction·where there was no difference.
IT. THOMAS
J Stands on the 21st of. in all the darkhess of I
{unbelief, and doubting whether his divine master, tlu ""''
will ever rise-again. In accordance with which astronom!
ical sense, and in no other sense that divines can agree up-
on, we find Jesus, the genius of the ·Sun, in the 25th of
Dec. telling the Pharisees, " Your father Abraham rejoic-
ed to see my day, and he saw it, and was glad." (John viii.
It was the evident objectof the writers ofthe sacred
allegory, as it was of the mystagogues and contrivers oi
the Pagan system, to give an appearance of ·real person-
ages, and of actual a4ventures and discourses, to the pros-
opopeia, uBder which they emblemized physical and moral
truths. So that it is only incidentally, and when they are
somewhat off their guard, that they let fall expressions en-
tirely out of keeping with their general tenor ; and fur-
nish to a wary observance, the key to the occult and real
sense which eludes, and was intended to elude the tracta-
ble simplicity of the faithful. At the same time, nothing is
more obvious,.than that the failure of invention, or fissures
in the weaving of the allegpry, would be froin time to time
patched up with pieces of real circumstances, actual ad-
ventures, and indistinct reminiscences of conversations
that had indeed occurred ; till the fabricators themselves
had become unable to distinguish what they. had remem-
bered from what they had invented. But who, but one
who held it a virtue .to be could drop the clue to
the allegory put into his hand · by such passages as
(Eph. iv. 9), "Now that he ascended, what is it but that
Dig,tizcd by Google
IAPI'II'I'I. Ill
he also descended first into the lot«r pam of tht earth ?
He that descended is the same also that ascended ?" This
descent into the lotDer parts of the earth, will apply to no sense
ofthe actual burial of a man upon a level wtth th·e earth's
surface, or not ten feet below it, but is ltrictly applicable ·
to the sun's descent below the horizon, by an equable di-
vision of day and night, ." to gitle light to them tluJt sit iA dark-
nus, and in the't1allty ofthe ahadOtiJ of death."
The Pagan philosophers pretended that their theology,
'and the genealogy Qf their gods, did originally, in an alle-
gorical sense, the several parts C)f nature and the
universe. Cicero gives a large account ofthis, and tells us,
even the fables _relating to tM deities include .
m thema good phystcal meamng. Thus, when Saturn was
said to have devoured his chikh.-en, it was to be understood .
.of 'lime, which is properly said to devour all things. "We
know," says this great heathen, "that the'shapes of all
the gods, their age, habits, and ornaments, nay, their very
genealogy, and every thing relating to them.
hath been delivered in the exact resemblance to human
weakness. It is," lle adds, "the height offolly to believe
such absurd and e)Ctravagant things."
Did any of them ever believe any thing more absurd ?
Did the annals of human folly or madness ever record any
thing more extravagant, than that new ·born children
should be considered to have offended God, or that a full-
grown fool shou1d be believed to please him, by washing
his dirty hide;and suffering a gawky idiot to talk nonsense · '
ever the ceremony ?
As an allegorical sense was the apol<>g1 offered for
the manifeat absurdities of Paganis[l), and an allegorical
sense is challenged for the contents of the New Testa-
ment, not only .by the early Fathers, but by and in the text
ofthat New Testament itself,• can it be denied that both
alike are allegorical ? ·And both being confessedly alle-
gorical, the innumerable instances of perfect resemblance
between them are a competent proofthat the one is but a
modification or improved edition of the other, and that
there never was any real or essential difference between
them.
• Our 10ftieieney i8 of God, who allo bath made 111 able miDilten of tho New
Teltament, DOt of the letter, but of ,the apirit ; for the letter killeth, llut the apirit
pveth life."-2 Cor. iii. 6.
Dig,tizcd by Google
Jlt ' 'J'BI: ELBUiiNUN MYSTEILJI:I.
CHAPTER XXXII.
THE I:LBUSIIU&.N MJ'STEILIEI j OJl, S.&.CJUMKNT OJ' TBE
. J,OJlD'I SUPPER :
• 0
W.&.s 1
the most augQ.st of.ail the Pagan.ceremonies
bra.ted, more especially by the Athenians, every fifth year,
in honour of Ceru, the goddess ofcorn, who, in allegorical
I e, had given us htr .flesh to tal; as :aacchus, the
wine, in a like sense, had given us hil blood to
' though .both these mysticisms are claimed by Jesus
Christ; (John vi-. 55.) They were celebrated every fifth
year at Eleusis, a town of Attica, from whencetheirname;
which name, however, both in the word and in the signi-
fication of it, is precisely the same as one of the titles of
Jesus From the11e ceremonies, in like manner, is
derived the very name attached toour sacrament
of the Lord's supper-" tho1e holy mysteries ;" and not one
or two, but absolutely all and t17try one of the observances
used in our Christian solemnity. Very many of our forms
of expression in that solemnity are precisely the same as
those that appertained to the Pagan rite. Nor, notwith-
standing all we hear of the rapid propagation of Christian·
ity, and the conversion of Constantine, were these heath-
en mysteries abolished, till the reign of the.elder Theodo-
sius, who had the honour of instituting the INQUISITioN, ·
which so great an . upon. them, in their
stead, about the year 440. •
Mosheim acknowledges, that " the primitive Christiansf
gave the name of mysteries to .the institutions of the Gospel,
and decorated particularly the holy sacrament with that
title ; that they used tht"tr'!l tentaB employed in the heathen
my"teries, and adopted some of the rites and ceremonies
of which those renowned mysteries consisted. . This imi-
tation began in the eastern·provinces ; but, after the time
of Adrian, who first introduced the mysteries among the
Latins, it was followed by the Christians.who dwelt in the
western parts of tp.e empire. A great part, therefore, of
the service of the church in this century (the second) had
a certain air of the heath.
en mysteries, and resembled them
consi<J.erably in many
• Bv" o tflXOI""Of-" Art thou the 1&e that 1lwuld Comt 1,-Jolm :d. I.
B.hvm,, the Advent, or coming, froiD the common rooti
t Moebeim, vol. 1, p. 29-'. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
...
, :aU:tJSJNJlN UST&JUIIS
Oqmpwed.
1. "But as the benefit or t. "Forasthebenefi.tisgreat,
imtiation was great, such as if, with a true penitent heart and
were convicted of witchcraft, lively faith, we receive that holy
murder, even though uninten- sacrament, &c; ifany be an opea
tional, or any other heinous and notorious ml-liver' or hath
crimes, were debarred ilom those done wrong to his neighbour,
Pattlh. Vi kr &c. that be f.resume not to come
eo quo ru. to the .Lords table."-Comm•
2. At their entrance, purifY-
ing themaelves by washing their
hands in holy water, they were
at the same time admonished to
present themselves with pure
minds, withqut which the exter-
nal cleanness of the body would
by no means be accepted.
:J. The priests who officiated
in these sacred solemnities, were
called Hieropbants, or fftetlkn
of ltoly t/&iftgl.
4. After this, they were dia-
miseed ia theae words :-....
Iort
niota &mce.
2. See the fonts ofholy water
at the entrance of every catholic
chapel in Christendom for tho
purpose.
Let us draw near with a true
heart, having our hearts sprink-
led from an evil conscience, and
our. bodies washed with pure
water.-Heb. x. 22.
S. Let a man 10acCOUnt of us
as ofthe ministers ofChrist, and
steward• of the mysteriea or
God.-1 Cor. iv. 1.
4. In English, thus :-
.. The LOrd be with you.
If it were poesible to be Diistaken in the significancy of
the·monogram of Bacchus, the I H S, to whose honour, in
conjunction with'CEREs, these h.oly mytttriu were distinc-
tively dedicated, the insertion of those letters in a circle
of rays of glnry, over the centre of the holy table, is an
hieroglyphic that depends not on the fallibility of trans-
lation, but conveys a sense that cannot be misread by any .
eye on which the sun's light shines. I H S are Greek
characters, by ignorance taken for Roman·letters ; and
which is the proper reading of those letters, is Mne
other than the .very ident_ical name of BAccHus, that is,
ofthe SuN, of which BAccHus was one.of the most dis-
tinguished personifications; And YEs, or IEII, with the
Latin tennination us, added to it, is JU116. The surround-
ing rays of glory' as expressive of the sun's light, make
the identity of Christ and Bacchus as clear as the sun.
These ray• of glory are a sort of univel'8al lttttr that
cannot be misread or misinterpreted; no written
,g,tizcd by Google
guage, nowenla•tMt·man could u.Uer,could10
eo expressively say that it. was the SuN, and nothing but
the Sun, thatwas so emblemized. And these rays are eeen
alike surrounding the heads ofthe Indian CaansHNA, as
lle is in the beautiful plate engraved by Barlow,
1111d in.ecribed to the.Archbishop ofCanterbury ; round the
Gtecian Apello ; and in our pictures of JeSUB Chriat.
Nay, more-the·epithet TaE Loao, as we have seen, waa
Ipeculiarly and distinotively apprOpriate to the SuN, and to
all personibtions of the Suo ; eo that the SuN and the
Lo.an were petfectly synonymous, and Sun's da¥. and the
Lord's day the same to every nation on whom his light hath
shone. . ··
, As it was especially to the honour· of Bacchus, ae the
SuN, that the mysteries were celebrated, 1ro the IJroead ucl
wine which the Lord (or Sun) had commcmdttl to 6e receWed,
w.as called the Lord's rupper. Throughout the whole cere-
mony. the name of the Lord was many times repeated,
and his brightness or.glory, not only exhibited to the eye
by the rays whiob..eurrotmded his name, but was made the
pec:mliar ·theme or subject of their trimnphant exultation.
New we our moet eaored Clvisti&:n otdinanoe !
·n.at also 18 deeigDated; 88 the ceremony m honour or
Bacchus was, #N l.Artl'• #Upper. In that also aU other
epithets of the •
deity: hmmured, are merged in &he
peculiar appropriation ·of the term Tut LoaD. k WeuW
sound irreverently, even in C,hristian eat'l, to caJI it
Jesus's eupper,·or Jeaus'• 'table;' it ie.alw.qs the
l.nid's. . And ae in the Lord's of the aacient idoi-
at ·Eleusis, it was the benefi.t W'hioh
&om the sun's rays or glory that were oolhmemorated, ao
in our Christian orgies, it is the·glory or·briglttniJJB of t-e
11ame deity which is peculiarly symbolized and honolll'ed•. '
A poor Jewitlb peuaat neV'er was, oor could have beea
the Loan. Lee us take words according to the
tneaning ofwords, and.not suffer our reason to be eophisti-
eated by mere I!IOUilds, wbieh have iR themselves no
meaning at all, and we shall see that our word
GLoaY is but a ridieu1<1Usly sonorous mouthing of ita
original, CLARY. The exact meaning of clary is fn¥.\1-
_, ; the attribute of brightnus -is peculiarly characteristic
of the SuN : use only the meaniag of the word, instead of
its unmeaning sound, wherever it occurs, and the helioJa..
trous sense and origination of our Commuaion
Sernce, and its absolute identity with the Pagan aye'--
Digitized by Google
ries or can no longer evade deteotion ; for thu.
run the Eleusinian and the Christian mysteries, like
lilrked 1aones in a ohariot, step' for step, and .phrase for
phrase, together.
THE DOXOLOGY.
" Brightness be to God on high ! We praise thee, we
brighttln thee (that is, we say that thou art bright), we
give thee thanks for thy great brightness. · Heaven and
earth are full of thy brightness. Brightness be to thee,
0 l.Qrd (that is, 0 Sun) most high!"
II:\ not this the real, the only sense, of both mysteries ?
U it be not, our ignorance has,. at least, one oonsolation :.
we shall not have to quarrel ·with any body who can ten
us what i8! Safe enbugh are we from any thing like aa
idt4 on the part of the partakers of those holy mysteries :
a trensible person who had received the sacrament, might
be shown for a week aftetwards at the menagerie.
J'J.G.&.N .MYTHOLOGY CHRISTIAN UnLATJOK •
1. TWin, the. of the 1; Satan, the eldest of the
children of heaven, yielded to children of heaven, yielded to
Saturn thekingdom ofthe world, Jehovah the kingdom of the
provided he raised no more ·world, P.rovided he raised no
children ; but on. the birth· of · more children ; but on the birth
.T41piter, he rebelled, and raising of Mell8iah, he. rebelled, and
WIIJ in het.ven,. prevailed not, raising war in heaven, "
neither was his place found any vailed not, neither wu his p ace
more in heaven. He and all wuod any more in heaven,"
IW!; he of rebel angels were (Rev. xii. 8.) " And the ao-
cut.ou,..OO impriso.aed under gels which kept nqt their first
heaped upon them. he hath rese"ed in. ever-
Tbeit v•attempta to rile isthe lasting chains under darkne11,
eauae of .earthquakes unto the judgment of the great
and v9lcaaou. . day."-Jude 6. .
•• Or from ov IICled hill, with fart " God 7.ared not the angela
duk 'II plph that einne , but east them down
.B.-." ana.... to H.Zl."-fl. Pet. ii. 4. Note
hpiter'• fltreot to the itiferiorgob, well ! the original word eiguiftel
· · JliG41. Pope'• JTerrion. TARTARUS".
•Latoaa wu driveD out of 2. Eve was driven out ofPar-
lleaven, anti IHWiog bee11 got am.e, and in her repreaentative
_.b child by Jupiter, without Mary, " llbe lmew llfK a .
qowledge ofa man, sbe.bro.ugbt man," brotJght forth her BOD,
idh.her IIOP, our Lord and Sa- our Lord Jeeus Christ, " being
'riour Phc:ebua-Apollo, " the the briahtneaa of his alory, and
Digotizcd by GoosIe
116
PJ.G.U JRTBQLC)GT
brightness ofhia father's glory,"
and the express image of ·his
person. She was, at the time
of her delivery, refused a place
where to bring forth, · and was
persecuted all her life by the
dragon Python.
Her son at length slew the
Python, and was by Jupiter ex-
alted with great triumph unto his
kingdom in heaven.
4. Jupiter transforms himself
into a swan, and in that shape
enjoys Leda, a married woman,
who became with child by him.
.. 5. The incarnation of Viche-
nou•.
theexpress im•ofhiapertOD,11
(Heb, i. " abe laid him in a
manger, because there wu DO
room for them ill theinn," (Luke
_
ii. 7.) " And the dragon pen&-
cuted th·e woman which brought
forth the man child."-Rev. m
13.
3. And the seed of the wo-
man bruised ·the serpent's head,
and her child was caught up
to God, and to his thnme."-
Rev. xii. 5. ·
4. Jehovah, in the shape ora
pigeon, obumbratu the wife of
Joseph; who becomes with child
by him.-Luke i.•
5. The incarnation of Chriat. 1
6. The Logos, or Word of 6. The Logos, or Word rJ
God, an epithet of Mercury.- God, an epithet ofJesue Christ.
htin Martyr'• Jlpology. -St. Jolm'• Goepel. I
7. Unum pro multis dabitur 7. "So Christ was once fl.
caput, ( Yirgil.)-i. e. One he'ad fered to bear the sins ofmiiJ1·"
1hall be gi11m u tlu redempt1Qn_ Heb. ix. 28.
fttr man!- I
· 8. "The Vandalt had a god 8. "To God the Father,Sell,
called Triglqf; one of those . · And Spirit, ever bleet-
wu found at Herlungerberg, Eternal Three in One-
near Brandenburg. He was re- All worshif! be addreet." •
presented with threE! heads.- Such are the words ofthe•
'l'hia was apparently the Trinity · thodox Chriatian Doxologr.
of Paganitm." Such are the .
very words of the orthodox
Christian, Parkhurst. •
• The editors or the Unitarian New Version orthe wllo""7
m/Jlk.ezy wish to •hovel all aparcitiee a aatacitiee Ollt or the . -• 1
MVO the implldence to tell lilt iJl a Dote, tbal they Weie iaterpolaMcl Ill .....
the odiDm auacbed to CllriRiaaily, fiom illl roauder beiJlc a Crucified Jew,
to elevate him to the dipity of tho heroes 8Jid domi-pfa or the bMtben .,....
1
Joey. So then, lhe arpment or the primitive Chriltiaos with their Ptp1 01'"
ponenlll wu good-oatured coat)l-Q ylltf tDtm't aewpt our
tDe•u tJlopl your•. . ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
P'I'TB.&eoau. ItT
P.lO.llf lln'BOLOOY • CJdUITI.llf UTZL.lTIOIJ
. , .
9. The ancient Gauls had an 9. The difference between
idol, under the name ·H&sua, and Jetua is but a breath.
who, mythologists say1 an- " The Lord of Hoets, he ia
.,wered to the Roman Mara, or the King of Glory."-Paalm
Lor.d of Holts, to whom they :uiv. JO.
used sacrifice their captives "Thou art the King ofGlory,
taken in war; of whom Lucan, 0 Christ !"-Te Deum, 14.
book 1, line 445. " Thou shalt bruise them with
Hurremque feri8 altaribtu Huu• t a rod of iron, and break them in
. · pieces, like a potter's veuei."-
Huua, with cruel altars, hor- Psalm ii. 9.
god ! · " And he was clothed in a
vesture dipped in blood."-Rev.
xix. 13.
" .Thus have I to trace, with a .confidence
continually as I advanced, a parallel between
the gods adored in Gree.ce, Italy, and India ; 'but which
was the original sy!Jtem, and which the copy, I will not
presume to decide. I am persuaded, however_, that a
connection existed between the old idolatrous nations of
' Egypt, India, Greece, and Italy, long before the birth of
Moses." ·
So concludes the pious Sir William Jones, .Llriatic Re-
ttarchu, vol. 1, p. 271. The reader is to conclude as he
pleases.
_,._
CHAPTER XXXIII.
PTTHAGOrt.U1 B. c. 586.
As all ideas of man are de,ived from his senses, and
consequently may be traced to their otigination from that
their only source, the gods and goddesses, or any god that
conceit could form to itself, would still admit of being re-
ferred to its primordial type in somethingthe like ofwhich
experience had first been impressed on the senses. Hav-
ing found innumerable pre-existent models of the imagin-
ary supernatural character of Christ. we discover in the
Sainian sage every thing .that could have furnished forth·
.the calmer and more philosophic personification of Unita-
rian Christianity, the men ma" Jesus.
as his name signifies, had been born under
precisely the circumstances ascri}:\ed to Jesus Christ;
having been the object of a splendid dispensation o( pro-
20
Dig•tizcd by Google
·phecy, S:nd had his birth foretold by APono·.Pythus ; his
soul having descended from its primreval state of compan·
iORShip with the divine Apollo, ·" the whick ht vN1
tile _father before the world UJaS. "-John v1i. 5. ':
Divesting his story, however, ofthe supernatural super-
structure that could be as easily pretended for any one
extraordinary chaTaoter as for any ·other; it remains·kif.
torically certain, t}lat this first of philoeophers, and most
distinguished individual of the human raee, was a Nell
character, and was born at Samos, in Greece, (from
wbence his epithet, the Samian sageJ in the third year '
ofthe 48th Olympiad-that is, 586 years beforethe epoeha
of the pretended birth of his Galilean rival. He was edu-
cated under.Pherecydes, of Syrus, of whom Cicero speaks,
as the first who inculcated the doctrine of the distinct
existence and immortality of the soul ; and afterwards be-
the distinguished pupil of the priests of Egypt.-
The limits of this work admit not of our dwelling on any
further particulars of his history, than those in which he
presents the'IIJ.ost clear and unquestionable type of the
character afterwards set forth to the world under the pro..
o,popeia generally designated as Je8US ChriSt.
· Pythagoras ,is most characteristically associated with
the doctrine which he taught, and which takes its name
.from him,-the Pythagorean .Metempsychosis.• ·After his
master had broached the notion of the enstence and im-
m,ortality of souls, it was l;lut a second and a necessary
step, to find some employment for them; and that oftheir
eternal .frorn 6ne body to ·another, after every
effort that 1magination can will be found at least as
consistent witlt reason as that of their existence at all, and
lbat in which the mind, ·after ah its plunges into the vast
Wlknown, must ultimately acquiesce.t · ·
" Etemity ! thou .pleasing, dreadful thought !
Through what variety ofuntried being,.
wb,at new scenes and changes must we pasa·t
Tb.e w1de, th' Wlbounded prospect lies before us ;
But shadows, clouds, and darkness, rest upon'it I
' . . Cillo.
· Pythagoras, however, left behind him more subatanti'al
eYidence of real wisdom, and of actUal benefits conferred
· • the tranlmigraticm of the 110ul 011t of one body into
&om /UT« and 1/IVZ'I• the lilil, the breath, the wit, the 110ul, the
t The Metempeycbosi8 overthrows the doctrine of the eveilastiug tol'lll4lldll o1
hell-fire ; and, on that aceollllt, ia Ia COJ!genial to Chrilticm cliapoeitiODL
. o;g,lizedbyGoogle
'
Jl9
QfOD that\·w,ewe,ever challenged for the imagin-
ary of biahaaorirs. He is generally and indispu-
tably held -to be the discoverer of the celebrated forty-
]\inth theo.tem of the fuost book of Euclid ; which demon-
strates t h
. e squa,re of the hypothenuse of the right-
a.ngle.-1 triangle is equal·to the sum of the squares of ita
sides; aDd to have first laid down that theory of .the
)lianetary system which, after having been laid aside, or
forgotten through all the intervening ages of Christian
ignorance, has been llevi:Yed, _and shown to be the true
and real by the disco:veries ()f Sir Isa.ao Newton,
and subseqoont.demonstrations of all succeeding astrono-
Mers. Had any thing like evidence of this nature been
adducilMe.for the pretension1rof Jesus of Nazareth, there
would not ha.ve been an infidel in Christendom.
Pythagoras was a teacher ·of the purest system of
ever propoun,ded to man. He has the merit (let
pateful women apportion his praise) of having first
ela:imed and achieved for the fair sex, their distinction o£
dreee from that bf men, and their title to that moretender
Nepect and exalted courtesy which none worthy the name
of men will ever withhold from them. He abated the
...ocity of and taught and i,nduced mankind to
extend feelings of humanity and tenderness to the whole
limte creation.· His personal beauty surpassed whatever
•e had ·been,seen in hUIIUUlity ; his voice was the
enmullic;tUti.evtr sQunded on the human ear, and hil
pOweN of 'suaaon were absolutely irresistible. The
VluiBtian Fathel!lilita\Ult his vanity, and ridicule his clainis
to supernatuJ"al lllemory ; but it is certain that Pythagoras
has himeelf ascribed· his memory to the especial favoUI'
1 8£ heaven, and belli the . happiest endowments eve.r
1 peuell8ed by man with the· utmost meekness in himself,
Drl to . the protU to mankind. His
r DOUons of the Deity will comparison with
any that tile page• of Christian Scripture. The
principle1·of which; he inculcated on his
d.isciples,.aa we.eee.in to him, is
far from beiag-·GOilij)8!\ible.with so proud a spirit, as his
mighty reason w.be proud might tempt our envy to
ascribe to him; or if the genuineness of those verses,
which at any rate are from no Christian mint, be dis-
putable, the short and pithy axiom which Clemens Alex-
andrinus acknowledges to have been characteristically
his, must for ever number him among those who have
thought of the Deity so u none of the human race, whe-
o;9; ized byGoogle
Pl't'RA801U.t.
ther without the aid of revelation or with it, have ever
thought more worthily-" None ·but God is wise," said
Pythagoras. ' ·
Pythagoras himself was eel1ainly not the in-tentor of
the ·doctrine ofthe Metempsychosis, but learned it of the
Egyptian monks, in whose college he was long a resident,
and of whose ecclesiastical fraternity he was unquestion-
ably a member ; he only inculcated this doctrine more
·earnestly, and endeavoured to wld it,.as he did other 811-
perstitions which he found too deeply rooted to be eradi-
cated, to useful, or at ·least and inoffensive ap-
. plications. . . ·
The Christian doctrines of .original ·sin, and of the
necessity of being born again, are evident misunderstand-
ings of the doctrine of the Pythagorean Metempsychom&,
which constituted the inward spiritual grau, or essential
significancy of the Eleusinian mysteries ; as the cl888ioal
reader will find those mysteries sublimely treated ofin the
6th book of Virgil's lEneid. . The term of migration dur-
ing which the soul of man was believed to expiate in
other forms the deeds done in its days of humanity, was 1
exactly a thousand years; after which, drinking of .the wa·
ters of Lethe, which caused a forgetfulness. ofall that had
passed, it was ferryed down the river, or sailed under the
conduct of Mercury, the Logos, or Word of Go4, and 1
" wind and tide serving,u was so· borne or carried, and 1
born of 1Dater and trind,• ·and launched again into bumaDity,
for a fresh experiment of moral probation. Hence souls
that had acquitted themselves but ill in their previ001
existence, were believed to be bom in lin, and to have 1
brought with them the remains of a corrupt nature derived I
from their former state, for which they were still further
punished by the calamitous circumstances in which they
were bo111, or the difficulties with which they should still
have to contend, till they should ultimately recover them-
selves to virtue and happiness. This was the doctrine, and
nothing but this, which Christ is represented as endea·
Touring to inculcate upon Nicodemus the ruler of the
Jews·; and for his ignorance and gross appreheneioDII of •
.which, he so tartly rallies that Jewish rabbi-" .IJ.rl *- 1
• Our English ofthe words o; ""'
cept a man be bom ofwater and ofthe 1pirit," (John iii. 5,) aud of &he... 1
aa-r1 o u n Soil eeery one tAat i1 ·
-the •JIIrit," (John iii. 8,) i8 ajesuitical impoeitioa upoa the simplicity of&M_.. I
Eoglish reader. The real reodering is, " born of the WIND, or .PvrF." So
the Holy 6HosT should be rendered the Holy Pvrr, makela
man 10 •piritually-miaded u wmd at tbe atomada. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
PYTIIA801U.8. HI
cnu.sTEit of Israel; and hwwest not t1tue thiRgi'9"--John iii.
10: It must be stupidity itself that could dream of any
reason or propriety in rebuk,ing the Jewish ruler for not
knowing these· things, if they ·were matters then fire re-
vealed, or not so common as that no well-educated person
had any excuse for ignorant of them.
In John ix. .2, the disctples are represented as propound-
ing to Jesus a question which would never have occurred
but to minds entirely possessed of the Pythagorean doc-
. trine-" .Master, vlw did sin, this man or his parents, that ht
was born blifltl ?'' which the Master (the characteristiQ
epithet of Pythagoras) answers precisely as Pythagoru ·
might have done-" Xeithtr hath tM.s man sinned, nor hi& pa-
rents," &c. While the Jews -imagine themselves . to
launch the severest invective against the blind man, in
holding his being born blind as a proof that he must have
been a very wicked wretch in some pre-existent state :
" Thou toast altogethtr born in aim, and doat thou teach"'?"-
John ix. S4; · . ·
In Matthew xvii. 14, we find the Pharisees represented,
accor.ding to the Pythagorean doctrines, as saying that
Jesus was Elias ; and in Matthew xviii. 18, Jesus himself,
so far from discountenancing that doctrine, confirms it, .
by giving his disciples to understand that John the Bap-'
tist was the soul of Elias come again in the person of that
prophet. . .
But the ninetieth Psalm, selected to be read as a part
.of our Burial Service, is entirely Pythagorean, and delivers.
the doctrine of the Metempsychosis too particularly tar
be mistaken, or to admit ·Of any other possible under-
standing : · · · ·. · · · · . · ,
" ·Loid, thou hast bun ·tJur refuge frmn one to.
Gt&Othtr ;" that is, in every state ofexisteneeihrough which.
we have already passed. · 1
" Thou tumut man to dulruction: agam thou ltJYUI, CdfM
.. k''·'- if .,.
agatn, ye c '""'en o men. . .
·u For a thoUBand ye4rs in thy right are ·but aB yuterday ; .suing
, Aal ii passed as a toatch jri tht night." · · · ·
" Comfort "' again now, after tht time that thou hast plagued
w, and for tht years toherein toe ha"e suffered ad.,ersity," 4'-c.
Be it remembered, that the exaet length of the Pytha•
gorean term of migration was·a thoUBaftd years ; and surely
. • Observe bow evidently thia is the 1aupaae of Some toortl o/Gol.,'
or 1001e saered aeriptaze which had reported.bill W?rd, before either New
or OldTeBtamflllt had been· im(IOI8d upon hiiiDIIIl credlllity.
20•
Dig,lizcd by Google
no argument could.seem so.well calculated to cqnaole and
comfort the mind under the fear of death, or for the loss
• offriends, as the persuasion thus inculcated, that the pe-
riod of separation would pass but as a watch in the nigh4
and that, upon their next .return into humanity, they
should be comforted in proportion to all the adversity that
they had gone through in their present .condition.
That Pythagoras should have adopted this ·whimsical
but sublime theoJ,'y, as the basis of a purer system of mo-
rality, or rather, perhaps, made the best of a system
he found too in men's minds to admit of be-
ing safely disturbed ; that he should have followed that
allegorical and amigmatical mode of conveyingmetaphysi-
cal speculations4 and moral truths which characterized
his and <.10untry, thereby subjecting himself anq his
theor1es to the ridicule that must necessarily attach to all
allegories and figurations, whose significancy can no long-
er be !raced ; that he should have descended to the jug-
gling tricks of pretended communications with the Deity ;
that he should have deceived mankind in so many partic-
ulars in which it cannot be denied that he was a deceiver,
and have degraded his greatwjsdom bya conjunction with
as great folly ; has its full apology in the simple statement,
Pythagoras was a man ; and with all his imperfections on
hie head, we shall look among the race of men, for his ·
better, in vain, yea, for his equal, or his second, butin vain.
Pythagoru was entirely a Deist, a steady maintainer
of the unityof God, and ofthe eternal obligations of moral
virtue. No Christian writings, even to this day, can com-
pete in sublimity and grandeur with what this illustrious
philosopher has laid down concerning God, and the end
Of all our actions; Q.D.d it is. likely, says Bayle, that lle
would have «mried his orthodoxy much farther, had htl
had the courage to expose himself to martyrdom.
The circumstancesof the death of Pythagoras.are veri-·
ously reported. ·He. lived at Crotona, in Milo's house.
Wl'th hls disoiples, and was.burnt in it. A man whom he
refused to admit into his sooiety, set the house on fire.
. Accocding to Diewarchus, he iJ.ed to the temple of the
muses at Metapontum, and died there See upon
thissubject the leemed colleotions ofMenagtus. Arnobius
• His religious respect or antlpatlay to Wetlll tile oircumltaDce diVMted ot
Qarilltian or we were po-t of the·clue, might admit ofu ratioD-
al ao ooravelliog u tbe F.cJptian wonhip Q( ooioll& See dais DIJ!GBexa, p. 21.
Ariatoxenus 881111'88 us thAt l>ythaaoru wouJcl oftea dt beau, bi reiipou .QIDo
oaiiiDO&widnt•odiag. . . .
.....
aflinns that he -wag bU!'ned-alive ina: temple ; othen etate
that he was slain in attempting to make his escape.
It'can hardly be doubted that his death was violent,
notwithstanding the divine honoure paid to him after-
wards, and that, with aH that he did to deceive mankind,
or rather perhaps to preeerve himself, he fell at last a mar-
tyr' to his generous efforts to- them.
The strongest type·of.resemblance or coincidence with
the apostolic story, which the histoey of the Samian sage
presents is; that the Egyptian Therapeuts boasted of hie
name as a member of their monutic institution ; and that
Pythagoras certainly made· his disciples live in common,
and that they renounced their propert7 in their patrimony,
and that 44 011 many 011 tDeTe }'0_88tf880f'8 of lands tw hotiiiU, 10ld
them, and brought the pritu of tJu th.iag• that tDm 10ld, mtd uu
1/atm alike apostlu' feet ; mad 1141 mGdtto
man tiCCorcling al he had fteea/'-Acts iv. 85.. . /
An ill construction was put upon their union, and it
proved very fatal to them. That society ofstudents being
looked npon as a faction which conspired against the state,
sixty of them were destroyed, and the rest ran away.
"Three hundred young men," says Justin," formed into
a society by a kind of oath, lived together by thelll8elies,
and were looked upon 88 a private faction by the state,.
who intended to burn them as they were assembled in
house. Almost sixty of them peri'imed in the tumult, and
the rest went into banishment., This event, hQwever,
appears not·to have occurred tiU. some time after the death
of their divine master.. · ·
Let the reader compare these historical fade with the
story ofthe Holy Ghost descendingin the ehape of·fite upoa.
the heads of the apostles, whf4\ are eD vitlt.orae MooN
inone piau, and their subaaquent dispersion, as-detailed in
the second c)lapter of t\1& .Aots.of Apostles, so grosl!lly
f!'bulous, so monstroll8ly absurd, that there is not in
the present day a Christian minister, who dare bring the
subject before the contemplation of his hearers ; and then
let hiin ·give to Christianity the benefit of all the doubt he
shall entertain that these facts are not the basis of that
fi.ction.-See his Creed, and GbWtA JTenu, in our chapter
SPECIMENS OF pA.GAN PIETJ'; . . . '
So conscious are the Christian Fathers of the superi-
ority of Pythagoras in every reapect, that they endeavour
to show that he was a Jeto ;* that he had been an imme-
• lmo fqere qui Nazaratam Pytbagoi'IIB pnaceplOI8m idem bic eBt cam Zabra18,
is-m - &:ecllelem propb$m iradideruad. Ea: popalo .Jadaloram a-•
Dig,tizcd by Google
PY'l'BA80RA&. ·
· diate disciple of 1;he Jewish prophet Ezekiel ; that he, aa
well as Pherecydes, Thales, Solon, and Plato, hadlearned
the doctrine of the true God, not only among the Egyp-
tians, but from·the Hebrews themselves.
In the account which the emperor Constantine gives of
the matter, in his oration to the holy congregation of the
clergy, Pythagoras; to be sure, is an impostor, inasmuch
88 that " those which the prophets had foretold, he
delivered to the Ital1ans as if God had particularly reveal-
ed them to him."•
. Lactantius, however, admits, and expresses his wouder,
that when Pythagoras, and Plato, incited by ·
the love of seeking truth, had travelled ae far as to the
Egyptians, the Magi, and the Persians, to learn the rites
and ceremonies of those nations, they should never have
consulted the Jews, with whom alone the true wisdom was
to be found, and to whom they might have gone more read-
ily."t The Jew !!-Paugh t . · . .
" Of the vast variety of religions which have prevailed
at different times in the world, perhaps there was no one
that has been more than that of the M
.etempsy·
chosis. It continued to be believed by the early Christian
,Fathers, and by several sects of Christians.
" As much 88 this dootrine is now scouted, it was held
.not only by almost aU·the great men of. antiquity, but a
late very ingenious writer, philosopher, and Christian
apologist, avowed his beliefin it, and published a defence
of it; namely, the late Soame Jenyns."-Higgim' Celtic
Druids, pp. 288, 284. . . .
It is not, indeed, rational ; but what metaphysical spec- .
ulf:l,tion of any sort is.so ? Had it been more frightful, it
would have been more orthodox. .
......
.CHAPTER XXXIV.
ARCHBISHOP .TI·LLOTSON18 CONFESSION o:r THE IDENTITr OJ'
CH&ISTIANITY AND PAGANISH.t
As itis really.toomuch to be.believed, and wewishto draw
on no man's confidence who may have the means of cer-
duille Pytbapram, plaroaqve arbitrire IICribit Ambroaias.-KorlAolli Pag-_
Obtrect. p. 48. <l>atll It owe, a. "IY111fTOI e p.OJ!Otl "'Y111fTOII', aUa ""' 1<"f ·
B(lea•..,., -ra 1r•e• non.,, ,.e.-Theodorit'UI Therapeut. lib. 8.
• Collstantine's Oration, c. 9. '
t Boleo adminui quod cam Pytbacoru et poetea Plato amore indapndm verb-
tis accensi, ad ..EgyptiO& et Magos, et Pet11118 DIKJ.De penetrasseat, at earam gentilllll
ritan et sacra cognoscerent-ad Judaios tantam non ace-riot, peaee quos taao
10loe erat, et quo faeiliu ire potaisleAt-Dioir&. Imt. lib. 4, cap. 2.
*For tho" Life of Archbillhop Tillolloll/' - Wadsworth'• Ecclas&ical
Dig•tizcd by Google
-
tifying himself, that the highest dignitary of the church
of England, the brightest ornament it ever had, and the
honestest man that ever received honour from it, or re-
flected honour on it, should so have tongue, so have
confessed the whole cheat, betrayed his craft, and yielded
every thing that philosophy could aim to conquer ;.l ..give
the " litera scripta," the "iprisrima the uri#•
letter, the wOJ'fh tltemself1u, which will be fo:und in the
forty-sixth of· the " fifty-four sermons knd discourses
which by his Grace himself;" this being
the second of the two entitled " Comerning tlae lncarntJ-
tifm of our bleued &tnour ;" on the text (John i. 14), "The
Word tDaB made flul& ;" and preached in the church of St.
Lawrence JeWl'y, Dec. .28, 1680 ;• occurring in the fourth
volume, Svo, of Woodhouse's edition, A. D. 1744; and of
that volume, '148. It is remarkable, that, even so long
ago, mankind were not quite so stupid as not to scent out
the latitant tDaggery of these discourses, which would have
gone nigh to have cost an ecclesiastic of humbler rank
his ears in the pillory, or· at least a year or two in Oakham
Jail. · The mitred infidel, however, in an advertisement to
the reader, informs us, that "the true reason of publishing
the8e discourses, not the importunity of jrimds, but
the importunate clamours and malicious calumnies of
others, whom he heartily prays· God to forgive, and give
them better .ininds." Amen.
Some Account of the Christian Diapensation.
" The third and last thing which I proposed upon this
argument of the Incarnstian of the Son of God, was to give
some account of this and to show that the
wisdom of God thought fit thus to order things, in great
condescension to the weakness and common prejudices of
mankind.-.-t
"And it is the more necessary to give some account of
this matter, because after all that hath hitherto been said
Biopaphy. An E.ay on Ilia Charactel' and Writings, colllltitutes the fifteeuth or
the author's fifty LJ:TTJ:.RI I'BOllil 0AJUIA.llil0 aacf Will be fo11Jld ill the 2illt nQID•
ber of the 1st volume of THE LioN.
• The characteristic distinction between Archbishop Tillotson ud other archbilb-
op and bishop11, those of our own times more especially, is, that he was foolilh
_,Ufh to commit hiQIIelC by public preacbiuc, which our modem bishops, on the
pinclple " 1trid IOOJUit mended," know better than to do ; and that though
be was withal a fiery bishop, be was an hoDellter man than any of them ; aDd,
God knows, that'• no compliment.
t Tbe will obeerve, thai the hypbeA, tlml.l -, is irwerted, to indicate
that the sentence is relie'fed of ita prolixity : not a 1111able il adMd, 110r one omd-
ted, that ill the leut depe coald qualify the - ·
'
in to the objeCtions aga.in8t it,• it may·still seem
very strange to a considering man,t that God, who could
without all this ciroumatanee and condescension have
clone the buainus,t should yet have made choice of this
way," &e.· ·
'' But lrinee God hath been pleased to pitch upon this
way rather than any other, this surely ought to be reaaon
enough, whether the particular reasons·of it appear to \18
or not.§"-p. 144.
'·t SecOtt.dly, I·comider, in the next place, that; in several
• revelatiol\8 which God hath made of himself to maJdrind,
he hath, with great eOlldeseension, aCcommodated himself
to the condition anci capacity, and other circumstances, of
the persons and people to-whom they.were made. For
the religion and laws which God gave them (i. a. the
Jewish nation) were far from being .the best (indeed!).
God- gave them llatvtes tDert not good, that' is, very
imperfect in comparison of what he could and woUld have
given them had they been capable of them.II..;....P· 145.
" Thirdly, I observe yet further, that though the Chris-
tian religion, as to the main and substt;mce of it, be a moet
perfect instituHon, yet, upon a due consideration ofthings,
it cannot be denied, that the manner and circumstances of
this dispensation are full of condescension to the weakness
of mankind, and very much accommodated to the moat
commonand deeply radicated prejudices of men.'ft' .
" But in history and fact, this is certain, that some
notions, ·and those very gross and erroneous, did abnost
uniyersally prevail ; and though some of these were much
more tolerable than others, yet" God seems to have had
•considerati?n of some.very and gross. appre-
hensiOns of mankind concermng rehg:ton. And 88 m some
Of the laws given by Moses, God was pleased particularly
to consider the hardness of the hearts of that people ; so •
he seems likewise to have very much suited the dispensa-
tion of the Gospel, and the method of our salvation, by
• Which is, being interpreted-All that has been said in auawer to the oltjeo-
tiooe, bas been very jejune B.lld noaatisfactory.
t Wh!ch !•• be!og is conMidering men who 11re the infideJL
:t Whtch 1,, bemg mterpreted-Mnch'ado about notlnng. ·
·. § Which is, being inlerprded, " Sbnt yolll' eyes, ai1d open your • ..a
eee what God will l!tlnd you.'• ,
II This might have been fair play, provided God him!!elf wu not able to ell!-
lllrge or improve their capacity. , .
'If Which is, being interpreted-The Christian religion, eve..o:t u .., the -a.
and 1111bstance of it, ·is f,UH of nonseii8Ei and barbarity, 8.lld o.llly med to tbe
btlltal approbeDaiooe of avagtnad fools. ·
Dig,tizcdty
Google
I·
I
'
the ineMn&tion and sufferings of his Son; to the common
prejudices of mankind, especially of the heathen world,
whose minds ·were less prepared for this dispensation thaD
the Jews.•
" That God hath done this in the djspensation of the
Gospel, will, I think, very plainly appear in the following
in8tances.-p. 147.
"hrt, world was much given to admire mysteries,t 1
most of which were either very odd and fantastical, or very .,
lewd and impure, or very- inhumau, and cruel. But the l
great mystery of the incarnation of the Son of God, was
such a mystery as did obscure and swallow up aU other
mysteries. 'Since the world had such an admiration for
mysteries, that was a mystery indeed---.a mystery beyond
all dispute, and beyo:qd all eomparison.f-p. 48.
" 2dly, There was likewise a great inclination in man- ·
lrlnd to the worship of a vi8ible Deity, (so) God was pleased
to appear in our nature, that they whd were S<J fond of a
visible Deity rnigM have one, even a true and natural
image -of God the Father, the express image of his
person.§
" Sdly, Another notion which has generally obtained ,
among mankind, was concerning the expiation of the sins :
of men, and appeasing the offended Deity by sacrifice- i
upon which they supposed the punishment due to the
sinner was transferred-to exempt him from it, especially
by the sacrifices of men.li-P· 148. And with this general
• Good God ! a bilhop io atmo&eraianifieaney his heartfelt ha-
tred of Cbristianty. He held Christi111111 to be more liard-beal:ted than the
themllelvee, and eo God Bllited his to their hard-beartedn-.
t Compare with the chapter Eleusinian Myster*, BDd with .Adm&ioaa ofChrit-
1ia wmen,p. l)!, No.. IH, in this Dn:OJ;IIII.
*0 spirit of Voltaire ! .Wu ever itarcasm on earth more lllll'CII8tic 1 W u it
in pliUner 'language that an Archbishop of Canterbury could have told aa, that tile
Cblistian relicion wu the oddest, the lewdest, aud the .bloodiest that ever wu
qpon eartb, " beyond all dispute, and beyond all comparison 1" ·
'§This wu the Spaniard Cortes's way of converting the Mexicans, wh81l be
threw down their image of the SoN, and anfurled a pictnre of the Virgin Mary in a
.etead, with a-" Tbere;Jon doge, an' yon mnst have sometlling to wonhiy, WOflo
. that o 'AmerUa. · ·
And th1111 in the original .Bets of the .Bpo1tle•, by Abdias Bishop at
Babylon, who professes to have been ordained by the Apostles theliiiMllvee, we
have it related, the blessed Saint Philip the Evangelist, preaching to the Scy-
1bianl, exclaimed, " TlwotD down thu .Mur• and 6reak him, and in the pkaot
in tDhich he •eenu to •tandjized, •et up the Cro., ofmy Lori. Je•m ClwWf,
and tDorlhip that."-Dejicite hone Martem et contiillpe, et in loco in quo bill
videtar stare, crucem Dod!ini mei Jesu Cbristi affigite, et bane adorate. Fa11ricii
Cod. Apocryp. tom. '2, in hac re. . ·
II That is, God wu pleased to approve and lat,mtan tacr\fices. And_
what wu the diff81'81108 betw- this God and Moloch l HU Grace, boweYW
''·'• ·-·
-
Dig,tizcd by Google
1'1LL0ft0lf.
noijonof mankind, .God was. so far to comply, •aa
once for all to have a general atonement made for the .slD8
of all mankind, by the sacrifice of his only Son, whom his
wise providence did permit by tDicktd to be cruciftul tmtl
elain.
. ."4thly, Another very common notion, and very rife in
the heathen world, and 8:·great source of their idolatry,
was their apotheosis, or canonizing of famous and eminent
persons, .by advancing them after their death to the dig-
nity of an infer\or kind of gods, fit to be worshipped by
men here on earth, &c. Now, to take ·men off from this
kind of idolatry, and to put an end to it, behold ! one in
our nature exalted to the right hand of the Majesty on
high, to be wor!ilhipped by men and angles; one that
UIIJ8 dead and is alirle again, and .li"u for to ift-.
teruuion for us.• . ·
! " 5thly, The world was mightily bent upon addressing
I their requests and supplications, not .to the Deity imme·
: diately, but by some mediators between the gods and
· them. In a gracious compliance with this common ap-
prehension, God was pleased to constitute and appoint
.OAt in our nature to be a perpetual advocate and inter·
cessor in heaven for us, bone o.f our bone, and.jle,h.of oar
jluh;t so very nearly allied ana related to tis, (that) we
may easily believe 'that he hath a most tender care and
concernment for us, if we OUfselves, by our o:wn wilfQ)
ollstinacy, do not hinderit; for if we be resolved to con-
ti!lue impepitent, there is no.help for us ; we must die in
our sins, and salvation itself cannot save us." (p. 15!)-
Thus far Grace of Canterbury. .
The reader is requested to compare this 'language
throughout, with the avowals of Moshei.Jn, the apologies
1188 the most or the Net» Teatament on his aide, (lllld DO rational
man will ever ..have a word to' NY agaioat the Old TeatameDt) :. " For if tk
blood, of bulll and goat1, and of an Miler lpriflkliflg the .,....
clean, •anctifieth. (p purifying of thefle•h, hotD much more 1AaU fie
'blood.of Cl&Nt," tt.1 Heb. ix. Ul.-Tbeforce or the whole aqument is.-
&he more moutrolllly horrible, the more erael, barbaro111, and bloocfy, the mo•
unetifyillg efficacy in the sacrifice, and the more to this HORRID Gou.
• Ptirhape this is the severeat the most caastie Slll'C88DI; that wu cmr
eouehed in words. Jtie the "Shet» em in and "All alive 0 !" orllu-
tholomew Fair, It is-" Our trick• beat t'Mir• !" It is-'• The foou! tu
! ean be too gro11 for 'em." ·
t This is good, honest, downright materlalilm. ," Bone or our bone, IIIII
flllllh or our Jlesb,, moat involve our ways or making and lastaining bone and
fieeb, Here ill no and cloudy work, and 110 room to rail at Mahomet'•
ternltrial paradise. .
•
org,tizcd by Google
..
of ):finuoius·Pelix, Justin ·MJuotyr and TertuUian-with
the concessions · of Gregory oi C838&1'ea; Origen, and
Melito, in their plaoes in this DtEGEIUl+;-and with the
total. absence of any historical of the exist-
ence of Christianity, as ·distiu.ct from within
the first hundred years, or as distinct from a sectarian
excrescence .grown upon Paganism, within the first
thousand years; and let him be faithful to his oMl con-
victions.
CHAPTER XXXV.
R£5El1111LANC1t 01' :PAtlAN AND CHRISTIAN I'ORMI OF WOR•
Ir woUld be alien from all-e.nds or general
narration of the character and evidences of the Christian
religion, to have .any ear or regard to the
and Wf!Ulglings of the variQus sectfl of Christians, who are
each, ifattended to, forunchristianizing all butthemselves,
and thus tearing the their common -christianity
to pieces, or surrendering it undefended to the scorn and
triumph of its enemies. If Christianity be not, or was
not, what the majority of those who professed called
themselves Christians, through a thousand years of its
existence, held it to he, there is a sheer end ·of -
all p<>Bfli-
' bility of ascertll.iDing what it was or is; since, at that rate,
it to no more · than the ideal chimera of any
cracked brain you shall meet and all that.can be
· said of it is- . .
· cc A. tbe fool tbinbtb, .
So tbe bell tiukedL"
The and persecuting spirit of the established
Protestant church, ana the severity of the penalties in-
flicted .by law on all conscientious honest avowals of
the .COJlvictions which superior learrung and deeper re-
.reh r¢ght .lead to, has enforced on the wisest and beet
of men a neceBSity of conveying their general scepticism
under covert of.attacking the peculiar doctrine!ll and prao-
'of the church of Rome.
. Because this mode of
1v6uld.be endured, this only was to be tolerated. The
predollliuant· sect, 1:0 their own tenure on the profits Of
reri\ained • would _look on
.or JOln 1U the game of runrung down aD.d
tearing to pieces theu oommon parent. To thia conten-
11 / . •
Dig,tizcd by Google
- ...........
dou apimt· of ramoDff ·thellr
union .ollly in, the wicked, poijeyo· of pel'8861Jting' Widels,
we <>we disooveries which ill no other. way .eoula have at-
equal ,ntention. We are thus tocarry some
or other· of recognised Christie authoritieS all the way
with us, taking up one where we set doWB another, till we
·arrive at the complete breaking up ef all pl'etenee to
evidence of any liiort, and or,thodoxy·itself to sub-
scribe the·demont'ltrations of reason. ' Thus M., Daille, m
his attempt to show that the religious worship of·his fel-
low Christians· of the Rolllftll.Oft.tholic· communion could
be distinctly'traced to the institutions of Jtompilius,
must lea9 every mind; capable of tracing our Protestant
forms of piety to Roman Catholic institutions,,tQ OQDneot
the first and last link of the sorites.: ergo, Protestant cere-
monies must have had. same origination. · ·
Dr. ConyeFS· Middleton, the most distinguished oma-
ment of the -church of England, could not, oompatibly
with his personal con..-enienee,·venture to go the whole
leBgth ·of the \vay .which he out to the or
freer spirits, though, by demonstrating the utter fal8ehood
and physical impossibility of.all and·eveey other pretended
miracle that ever was iR the world, not · one ,
(except such ae he -might·have. been put in the pillory If
he had not ·excepted), he· leaves oonclosion to be
draWn-as ·it may be·by e'lerr;mind of' drawing a
Ol')nclu&ion, and _as he oould ··calculate fttat .it
-would be---w.ith·a. ·efl"eet of eon-rietion .than if he
had bimseW· presoribed It. · .. · · · , .- . .
· Withoot any of·the ditifindilmi . .
ence upon which the of Christians Wra.Dgfe
am.ong themselves, we ·pass now from the comparison Of
. the doctrines of what has been called divine Rev:.ela.Qon,
1Vith 'the previously 'tenets. and of
•ism, to examination of ihe no less striking
df Paga:n and Ch,ri1tiail forms ·o.r worship. ·
··Priests, altars, temples, solemn festivals, melancholy
grhnaces, 'fi,diculous attjtu'des, trinkets, 'baubles, bells,
candles, cUshions, holy water,holy wine, holy biscuits,
holy oil, · holy smoke, holy vestments, and holy books,
·candlesticks, dim-painted. windows, * chalices, sal-
. .' . •· . . . . .
•
WJrs, })ict.nes, tablets,'achleTements, rinlsic, &:e. are found
In T&rioos ·:rnoMfi.eations and not only in
the·sanctuMies of the Roman Catholic communion, but
&ome tYr otker, ot lill ·of thelil, even jn nlethodistical con-
, {)r in Unitarian -pagodM supposed to be at the
fa.rtbest remove from any intended adoption of the Pagan
alld Papal ceremonielf. ··
We have seen the pontifical mitre, the augnral staB',
the keys of Janus, · and the Capitoline chiekell8, em-
bla.Boned 01'1. the annorial bearings, not of Popilh; but of
OM' birmope. .The religious faction that eeemed
-very reasonably to object to the " pomps and vanities of
thie sinful world, while iB. · the ·possession of those who
had corrupted the pure faith of Christianity, very meekly
and consistently take upon themeelves the burthen of three
times the revenues of that ·corrupt church.• Th08e who
were shvcted at so ft&grant a of the precepts of
taeii' divine muter, ae that of the bishop of Rome, who
styled himself Hnl(lflt of th.t m'f.taflt8·o.f Gorl, were content
to be known only as-Right Reverend and Most Reverend
Fathers in God, His Grace the Lord Archbishop, Bishop,
Prelate, Metropolitan, and Primate, next in precedency
to the blood royal, .&:e. &e. We have only to hope that
LactandUBli1ight ha"e carried the matter too far where he
says, that " among those who seek power and gain from
their religion, there· will never be wanting an inclination
to forge and to lie for it.'1t
'' That Popery has borrowed its principal ceremonies
and doctrines from the rituals of is a fact
which the most learned and orthodox of the established
i· ohurch have inost sirentiously mainiained and most eoa-
'rincingly demonstrated. · · ·
[ · That Protestantism hae borrowed its principal cere-
monies and doctrines from the rituals of Popery, is a fact
which the most learned and orthodox of the Catholic
church as strenuously maintain, and as cOnvincingly
d.einonstrate. The conclusion, that Christianity is al-
together Pagrulish, is as inevitable, as that if it be to be
•found neither ainong Catholics nor Protestants, there can
be suah thing upQD earth. . · ·
' THE WHITE SURPLICE,
As worn by all our Protestant clergy, was the dress of the
Pagan priesthood in a part of their public officiations,
• See the Table or Eccleilialltical Reveuuea. t LactaDt. De raJa. Belis· I. '-
Dig,tizcd by Google
UJ . .UEII.JLAKC••
and is ao.d.escribed by.the satirist Juvenat,• and.the
Ovid.t It was the peculiar habiliment of the priests of
Isis ; and J&is herself being, believed to have been the in-
.of linen, of whi({h these surplices are mad.e, her
effeminate priest$ .were distinguished from more manly
imposters by the still-applicable epithet of surplice or
linen-wearers. Silius, however, Spetjlking of the rites usecl
in the.Gaditan of Herc!lles, iristruots \18 that the
priests ·of He.rcules were also ·distinguished by
the. white. surplice. . " They ,
cl;ut.stitye .had no statues, .wore white linen surplices, and
paid tithe to Her.cules;" that is, they were in
s.ubscripttons to keep up,the syste:q1 that them .up.
HOLY W.A.TEL
Wun, 1Merein the per100 it bapNtd in the Mme. of 1M
· .Father, and. ·of the &m, mad of the Holy .GMit.---Ch'lWCh of
Englontl Catcchiim. . , . .· · .
' ·
. . . . .
, THE BAPTISMAL I'ONT, ' . .
·In.our Protesiant churches, and w:e·can hardly say more
especially thelittle cisterns at the entrance ofour Catholic
chapels, are not imitations, but an unbroken never
· interrupted .continuation of the same aquaminaria or
omula, which the learned Montfaucon, in his ·Antiquities,
shows to have been, va.ses of holy water, which Uta"8
placed by the · heathen. at the entranu of their templu to
sprinkle themselves with· upon entering those sacred tdijicu.
"And with pure ·dews sprinkled, · enter the temples,''*
Euripides stands only in paraphra,se in·our.Heb.· x. 21,
" .Let.us draw near with a true heart, having 91lr hearts
sprinkled from an evil and our bodies washed
with pure water." The same vessel was called by the
Greeks th.e sprinkler.§ Two of these, the one of gold, the
other of silver, were given by Crmsus to thetemple o( Ap,
ol-
lo at Delphi. Justin Martyr, the second in succession of
the Christlan Fathers, next to those who are ea.Iled apos- .
tolic, says, tha.t " this ablution, or wash, was invented by
demons, in imitation ofthe true baptism, that thtir votaries
• Qui gre&e Jiniai!r eircumdatcis et ealvo.-Jue. 6..8.
t NuncDeaJinigeri colitar celeberrima tarbi..-OVU. .Met; I. '746, ·
. · . : t - Ia '
<n11xn• "'"''· 1
f · .
Dig•tizcd by Google
!SS
rtdght also have their pretended purifications by water.",.
There certainly must have been something supernaturally
ingenious in the inventions of these diabolical imitators,
who always contrived to be the authors of the ve!J' first
specimens of what they imitated, and to get their imita-
tions into full vogue before the originals from which they
copied were in existence.. The " sanctification of water
to the mystical washing away of sin," and in signification
of "a death unto sin and a new birth unto righteousness,"
had not only been used, but mOI!t abundantly a:bll8ed,
' before its original institution as a Christian sacrament;
as we find Ovid in verse,t and the best and wisest ofthe
whole !iuman race, Cicero, in his philosophical writings,
severely rebuking the egrc>..gious absurdity of expecting
moral improvement from any such foolish and contempti-
ble supenititions. 0
The form of. the or sprinkling-brush, as used
by the clergy or-the Catholic communion in our
Christian congregations, is yet toobe seen in blU-rtlitji and
ancient coins, wherever the insignia or emblems of the
Pagan priesthood are described. It may be seen at this
day on a silver coin of Julius Cresar, as well as on the
coins of many other emperors. The severe ridicule and
sarcasm heaped by our Protestant clergy on their Catholic
brethren, for extending the benefit of these mysterious
eprinklings to their horses, asses, and other cattle, would
come with a better grace, if they themselves would explliin
what there is of a rp.ore rational and dignified significancy
in sprinkling new-}>orn infants, who, in the ·eye of reason
and common sense, might seem as little capable of receiv-
iDg any benefit from tne ceremony as the brute creation.
hadespecialgods and goddesses who
presided over the birth of infants. · The .Mmdina
took her name from the ninth day, on which all male chil-
dten were sprinkled with holy water, as females were on
the at the same time receiving their Pagan name ;0
of which .addition to the ceremonial of Christian baptism,
we find no mention in the Christian Scriptures. When all
the forms of the Pagan were duly complied
• x.. To11rr'q.,., 6., T8Tt1 alUII1twrer oa lao,.ortr loa T8 1r(l6f'P'• •••ti(lvx,.,,.,.,o
._.,.., ""' qanatto• '"""'"' nr "'Ta uqa CHIT., em(laa•orrac-.TUif• .Morl•
..,.,. 1,91, p. edit. Thirlb. ,
t Ah milliam qui tri1tia eli uiu cedil
Flaminei. tolli pc;.e patetia aqai -Oeid. Fut. I. 45.
At aimilabel Me diutenlitate eVllll4!ICIIIe nee tllil amliil elai polelt.-Oie.....
0
tn•
Dig,tizcd by Google
,-
B&IEIIBLANC&.
. ..
with, the priest gave a certificate to the parents .of the re-
generated infant; it was recognized as a
legitimate meiJlber of the family and of society, and the
day vyas spent in feasting_ and hilarity.
Fae-"taik cf t1 Pap Certifi- Copy·cf.the jonA of a. ClaNticul
calt of Nwadination. Certi.fo;4ie qf .BaptUM.
I certifY you; that in this case I certify you, that in this
all is well done, and aecording case all it well done, and ac-
unto due order, concerning the cording· unt'o due order, coa-
nundination of this cb,ild, who, cerning the baptizing of this
being born in original sin, and child, who, being born io ori-
in the wrath of God, is now, by .ginal sin, and in the wrath of
the laver of in GQ!l, is by the laver of r&-
received into the num- generation in baptism, received
ber of the children of God, and into the number of the children
heirs of the' right of life. of God, and heirs of everlasting
.Ri-can. Probdbilium. J life.-CAurch cf EnglM&d Bcap-
. · tismal semce. · .
The old Btoriu and imp01turu of the tmcimt Paganim, cmd
lite mw·"miotv of them, as adopted and by the fai.tA
:/:U:...hriltian btlietfe"!, may be compared by_
PAGAN,
Cicero, concerning the oripl
of divination, relates- .
That a man being at'
in a certain field of Etruna,
and · happening to strike his
plough deeper than
ordinary, there Started up be-
tbre him, out of the furrow, a
.peity, whom they ealled Tagu.
'11le ploughman, terrified by so
strange an apparition, .made
such an outcry, that he _llla.noed
all his neighbours,·and in a short
time drew the whole eounb'y
vound hiQl; to whom The God,
in the hearing ·of them all, ex-
plained the whole art 81ld mya-
tery of divination : which all
their writers and records affirmed
.to be the genuine ori«in of' that
. 7f&e tDir.ole collegiG#e claurcA
qf cafl0fll1 concerning
tne ongin of St. )lary of
pruneta,• relate--
When the inhabitants of .lnt-
F,tmeta had resolved to build
a church to the Virgin, and
were digging the foundations
of it .with great zeal, oo a spot
marked out to them by heawm,
one of the labourers happened
tQ strike hit pickaxe agaiut
aomelbing under ground, trom
which there issued presently •
complaining voice or groan.-
The workmen being great11
amazed, put a stop to thea
work for a while; but hav!Dc
recovered their spirits, after
some pause they ventured. to
•
lOr which the old
Twe.,., Wtlre afterwards so
famous.;_Cie. de Dimn. 23.
Cicero,· however, suhjoios, that
to attempt to confute such
stories would be as silly as to.
believe them. ·
open tbe place &om which the
voice came, and found the rnira-
culoua image. This is delivered
by their writers, not grounded,
as they say, on vulgar fame, but
oo public records and histories,
confirmed by a·perpetual seriee
of miracles--Middleton'• Pref.
. Disc; to Letter jf'O'hl Rome.
· Our modern Iconoclasts- will l>e re.ady to cry out, that
the asserters of these popish stories were no Christians :
not the dilemma they rush on, in subjecting them-
selves to the utterly unanswerable Who t/rm
tDere Christiana '7 l,.et them strike from thetr list, if they
please, all the writers, whose faith andcredibility has been
pawned and forfeited on stories,-than which the best are
than this-no better; let them join the laugh against their
Eusebius, for taking owls for angels; their St. Augustin,
for preaching the gospel to a whole nation of men and
women that had no heads; their Origen, for being a priest
of the goddess Cybele and of Jesus Christ at the same
time; thelr Tertullian, for believing the resurrection of
Christ, because it was impossible ; their Gregory for writ-
ing letters to the Devil, yes ! and their great
reformer Martin Luther, for seriously believing, that the
Devil ran away with children out of their cradles and put
hie own:imps in their places. And then produce all the
testimonies they shall have left,. of the existence of are- .
ligion that was not and absolutely pagan, at
any time before the period of pretended reformation.
· The only difference wa8; that Jupiter was turned into
Jehovah, Apollo into Jesus Ghrist, VeRtte's pigeon into
the Holy Ghost, Diana into the Virgin Mary, a .new no-
menclature was given to' the old materia theologies : the
demigods were turned into saints ; the exploits of the one
were represented as the miracles of the other ; the pagaa
temples became .churches ; and so ridiculoueJy
accommodating were the converters of the world to the
prejudices of their ancestors and neighbours, that
we find, that for the express and avowed purposes of ae-
eommOdating matters that the change might be the less
offensive, and the old superstition as little shocked as
possible, they generally observed some resemblance of
.quality and character in the BCrint whom they substituted
to the old dftly. " If in converting the profane worship ·
of the Gentiles to the pure and sacred worship of the
church, the 'faitl!ful were wont ·to follow some rule and
proportion, they have certainly hit upon it here, {at R.oiiiE)
m dedicating to the Virgin. Mary, the temple formerly
.sacred to the Bona Dea, or Good Goddess."" In a place
fonnerly sacred to Apollo, there now stands the Church of
built there, as they tell us, in order that
tbe profane name of that Deity. might be converted into
the glerious name of this martyr. · .· .· -
Where there anciently stoodthe templeofMan, they have
'erected a Churehto Saint Martina, :with this inscription,
Man bmee upelled; MartiM. mart,P'd maid
. Claims QOW tbe "bieb to i!im-paid.t
hIs certain that in the earlier ages of Christianity, the
Christians often made free with the •epukl&ral stonu of
heathen monument•, which being ready cut to their hands,
they converted to their own use, and turning downwards
the side on .which the old epitaph was engraved, used
eith.er to inscribe ·a new one on the other side, ·or leave it
perhaps without any inscription at all; ThiS has fre-
quently been the· occasion of ascribing martyrdom and
saintship to and names" mere Pagans. .
THE P.l.N.TBEON.
The ,noblest anTHEM TEHPL1! now remaining in t1le
world,'is the ·Pantheon or Rotunda, which, as the inscrip-
.tion over the portico infOl'ms us, having been
dedicated of old .by Agrippa to. Jove and all the Gods,
was piously reconsecrated by Pope Boniface the Fourth,
to the Mother of God and an,the Saints4 ·.
. '
• Si nel ·nvoltare il prot_imo eulto !le_gentili nel ACrO e vero, _.,...... i
· fedeli qualcbe proportione, qui 1& ritrovarono uBai conveniente nel a
Maria viiJine an·tempio, ch'era della Bona Dee.._Rom. .Med. GWr. i. Biollli.
RiNa, 10.
t Tbe Dcription or C!JIU'IIe is Us Latin, 'anil thils it --
!fartyrii virgo Martina C9ronam
Ejecto binc Martis numina Tempi& tenet.
*Tbe inlcription ..._: . ..
PANTHEON,&c.
IM.PIJ: 60VI, CJI:'I'J:JliiQUJ: ·xJ:ND.A.C1!'118 Dl18
.A. BONirACIO Illl. PONTIriC&
. DJ:IP.A.JlJI: J:.T a. 8. CHili8Tl XAilTYillBUI PIJ:
DICATUX,
&c.
a&SKIIaL.t.ftCil.
· ilt PagGt. T..,W.• CA.rc.W.•
. . . 1. . ' 1.
To Mercury and Minena,
. Tutelary Gods.
2.
To the Gods ,who preside over
this Temple.
s.
To the Divinity of Mercury,
the availing, the powerful,
the unconquered.
4;
Saered
To the Gods
and Goddesses
with
Jove the Be"and the Greatest.
5.
.Apollo's Head,
801T0unded with rays of glory.
6.
The mysticalleUers
IHS .
. '
surrounded wtth l'!l)'S of glory.
To St. Marr and St. Francia,
.· · My Tutelaries. ·
2.
To the Divine Eustorgius,
who presides over this Temple.
' s.
• To the Divinity of St. George,
' the availing, the powerful,
the unconquered.
41'1·
Sacred
To the presiding helpers,
St. George and St. Stephen,
·
God the Best and Greatest.
5.
Veinis's Pigeon,
IUJTounded .with rays of glory.
6.
The myBtical leUers .
l u ·s,
surrounded with rays of glory.
Jlringhus, in his account or subterraneous. Rome,
acknowledges this conformity between the Pagan and
Christian I'orms of and defends the admission of
the ceremonies of heathenism into the service of the
church, by the authority of the wisest prelates and
vernol'l!, who found it necessary, ht in the convemon
of the Gentiles, to dissemble and winkt at many things,
and :yield to the times; and not to use foJ.'ce against cus-
which people were so obstinately fond of, nor to
think of extirpating at once eveey thing that had the
appearance of profane, but to supersede in some mea-
eu:re the operation of the ·..,red laws,·till these converts
• 1. llereurio et Millerwe, Dlit
. Tatelarib.
1. Dii qai baic templo prallideaL
• 1. Marie et Fraacilce, '1'lltelare.
mei.
I. Imo E..eo!Jio, qai haic temPfo
. ide&.
J. N111DiDiMemlrii, polleDti, poteiati, 8. NliiDini &':Geo!Jii, poUenti,
. iavido. · poteoti, illmto.
4. Diis DeabaaqucamJove. 4. Divis pneetitibaa javamibaa;
. • Stepbanoque, cam Deo Opt. Max.
. Grutw'• ltUCriptWM. . BoldMtmt
t ••.lnd the timu of thil igftorarui God tlliftked 111.."-Aauvis, 80.
Dig,tizcd by Google
OGD'vinced by and informed of the whole·1rnih,
by the of the Holy Spirit, should be content
to submit m earnest to the yoke of Christ.• . . ·
The reader will do himself the justice of collating this
admission with the same acoommodating policy of &.
Gregory, adduced in our of AdmissioD.B, p. 48.
SAINTS AND .NEVER EXISTED.
The last of ten thousand features of resemblance be-
tween Paganism and Christiamty, which might be adduced
to esta9lish their absolute identity, which we shall care to
notice, is the strikingcoincidence that theChristianperson-
ages, lik:ethe Pagan.deities, were frequentlr createdby er-
rors of langtiage, Inistakesof noun s.ubstantives .for proper
names, ignoranqe of the sense of words, sub-
stitution of one letter for another, &c. &c. so that words 1
which had only stood for a picture, a cloak, a high-road,
a ship, a tree, &c. in their use, were· passed over
in another as names of heroes, saints, and ,
martyrs, when no such persons had ever existed. Thus
· have we a Christian church erected to Saint .8mpMbolw,
aD:other to Saint Vua.....:.Christian prayers addreBSed to
the holy martyr Saint Veronica; and adored as
a god, bJ. the ignorance that was oot aware that
J.l.mphiholUB was Greek for a cloak; · ·
Y"t4r. abbreviaied Latin for a perfectus or ov• '
seer of the · · . · .
Icon, half Latin and half Greek for true image; and
Chrestust the Greek in Roman letters· for aDf good aad
useful man or thing. · ,
• Ae mas:imi iabinde poDtifices phuim& pclma .&cie
duere, optimum ecilloet IIIIi tempon 4ef'lnllillam -; •allet>ut qaippe libi, IIAI1
al1am am..,_ r-UJitioe n&.vim.utpote qai1110zmc.a idelila J"ivbwt•, ...
bibeodlun -; neqae .Uatenu enilendam. •t quicqaid prora- aaper«IIUin!lt
omnio_o tolle:retm, !laam ateodam 111Cl'&l111D«l11814pD cis
parte iatermittendam 11Dpenamarbnrabantar.-Tom. I, lib. 1, c. 21. ·
t 'I'hil miltalte oripaatea ia what ia ealled the "lolacilin, wllicb eo.iala
pronoanoin« the • Jilr.e If· Tbe modern Greelm give them licith the 10aud o( die
I or F.apsb. E. Tbi8 mach in .f.cypt, ad beace il htaad9
._ to take pi- m the Aleundrine MSS. Heace also liDd Xelfl"".,
bave .,_ eontoanded; Ulli 8uetonia bu wriUeD, " J--. CstnnTo
tamalau.a. ll&ai. expalit."-EZ.ley'• A11notl!llionl 011 tlae
.... 1. p. Da. . . . .
Bat nrely tUwill nlllil qaiw • well if' takea exaetly tbe other W..y. It.,..
11 -:r Glr the Cluilciao-eYidenoe manaflact- to chimp E iDto I, u (or 8aeloel-
111 to llave cbup1 I into.E. · · · · ·
Dig, izcd by Google
IROJJIBIII ··I' Pf.GAII PIUI'.
th:e idiot'll'.dream of·an imaginary pre-
state o( Christianity,-or of Christianity in its
primitive purityhere what. are ealled the corruptions of the
Romish chlll'eh ad.mingled with and defiled the stream;
ear Protel!!tant historians are not able to make good .their ·
evidenoe of the · existence of Christianity, in any time or
place, in ·separation from the most exceptionable of those
oorruptions. Never was there the day or ·the hour in
which Christianity .tMJB, and its corruptions were not. The
thing of·supposable rational evi(}enee, historical fact, sub-
lime moral precepts, and practical utility, which
"W"e hear ofin.the ooxcomb-divinity of an Unitarian chapel,
is a perfect ens rationia, the beauideal of th{:l.t never
i.t8 type in -history. Though the most accurate cal-
.tlatisfactorily prove that not more than.a t\ven:'
tieth part of the Roman empire had embraood the Christian
name before ·the conversion of Constantine, yet on the
eeca8ion of that prince'$.death, his hifi!torian, Eusebius,•
t.elle ofmama which were celebrated, and prayers which
1ft.re said for his soul in _the Apostle's church, as a thing
of oourse; and in a way in which it was impossible that
such.performance of mass ansJ. pr.ayets for the dead could
have been spoken of, had there been any contrary doctrine
or practice known to Christ's church, of higher antiquity
or of better sanction than they.' . · .
CHAPTER .
ap£crHI:Ns o:r PAGAN PIETI'.
•
" THE finK of i.he Orphicf.Hymn!:! is addressed to the
goddess or the /)(jtW-kt,tper, and as it is
the most ancient·monument extant of the adoration prud
'*!'the-deity who was su,pposed to preside over chiZ&;lliriM,
Del whom the Romans afterwards called .[tmiJ Lt&etna, >Or
Lucina," I present the reader with a literal tranel&-
tion of it, which I find ready made·to my hand, in Park-
Hebrew Lexioon.:-
I '
• Eaeeb. or Colllltafttine, book 4, cb. '11.
f Orpheu, or ratberOnomaeritas, lived HO a·, c.
Dig,tizcd by Google
" To PaoTIR'R&.a., ·tlu /ncerue, STo.au:.
· "Hearme,Ovenerablegoddess,demonwithmanynamee,•
aid in travail, sweet hope ofchild-bt!d women, SA.noua of
. females, kind friend to infants, deliverer, propitious
to youthful nymphs, ProthyrCM t Key-bearer,. gracious
nourisher, gentle to all, who dwellest in the· houS'es or all,
delightest in banquets_
! Zone-looser, in thy
works to all al>parent!. Thou sympathisest With throes,
but · rejoicest in easy labours ; IJ,ithyria,· in dire extremi-
ties) ·putting an end to ; · alone partUrieat
women invoke, rest of their f6r in thy .power are
those ·throes ·that end their anguish, .llrtemil, llythyria,
f'et7erend Prothyrrea. · Hear, immortal' dame, and gmnt us
offspring by thy aid, ana save. us, as thou hast
been the S.a.v1oua of all !"--.-.Lezicon, under the· word o'm-
to. forth or be t . . . .
A free pc)eticaJ version of an hymn to Diana, expressive
of her attributes, as generally believed. and worshipped
about the time of St. Paul, tO the measure of the Sicilan
Mariner's Hymn .:- . · ·
.·"· Gre.t it lMM tf the. xix. $4.
"Great Diana! huntress queen!
GoddeBS bright, august, serene!
In thy countenance dif'ine .
Heaven's shine.
Tbou art holy! thou·alone, · ·
Next to Juno, 'fill'st throne!
Thou fOr us Oil earth wut seen-
of earth arid heav'n the queenf
They to thee wh9 worship pay,
From-thy precepts never stray;
Chaste they,are; and just and pure,
And from £ataleiossecure; . ·
• ADd what. wu to biDder tle 'bluud Virgin .Mary from .being one of the
IIUilell of tbir demon? Godfrey HiMine. Esq. in his most instructive and inter-
Hiltory of the Celtic Dniida, published A. n. 1827, states that be counted
. of forty different \aDder the image of the Virgin at Lciretto.-11.
t 'l'be reader wiD o\-ve, that .u ihe distinguishing attributes of the Pagan
diYinitiell re...-nted iA their mtu•, it was absolutely impo&!ible that this
Divine Virpa, /rind frieM to irifa.nl•• could be symbolized otherwise than as
wi&h a ·elaild i11Tur 4NJU, Bu\ 8llcb a representation could not po111ibly symbo-
liae or the mother ofJ- fiom any other mother !
.
•
·01' ••ou
Peace of mmd 'tiS their's to know,
To thy blessed sway who bow ;
Chastelt body, purest mind-
Will, to will of God resign'd;
Conquest over griefS and cares ;_
Peace_;,for ever peace, is their'a.
0 bright goddess ! once again
Fix on eat1h- thy heav'nly reign;
Be thy sacred name ador'd, .
Altars rais'd, and rites restor'd f
But if long contempt of thee
.Move thy sacred deity ·
This so fond request to ·
Beam on me, on me, thr
·.Thy adoring vot'g1 I
In thy faith will hve and die ;
.ADd when Jove's supreme command .
Calls to the Sty$ian strand, _
.I no rear of _
death shan know,
But with thee contented go :
Thou my goddess,.thou my guide,
Bear me through the fatal tide ;
Land me on th' Elysian shore,
Where nor sin;nor grief is mor&-
Life's eternal blest abode,
Where is·virtuet where iS God.,
Pir1t publilhed_
in tM .«utlwr'• Clerical ReftftD,in Ireland.
.THE PBAYER OF 8IMPLICIU8.
•
There is a most beautiful prayer of the Pagan Simpli-
mu, generally given at the end of Epibtetus's Enchiridion,
and almost the model of that used in our Communion Ser-
vice, "0 .O.lmighty God, to whom all hearts are open, all desires
J:RotM," &:c. The ideas are precisely the same; the words
and the machinery alone are a little varied. I find a ready·
made poetical yersion of this, in Johnson's Rambler.
" 0 thou, whose pow'r o'er moving worlds presides,
., lf.bose.v,oice created, and whose wisdom guides !
1 · bD dadding mal'1 in pure effulgence shi.ne,
· ·· .A!lci'Cbeer the clouded mind with light divine.
'Tfs thine ..one, to calm the breast
·.,. •·..·Wifh 'silent confidence and holy rest. · ' ·
.' From great Jove ! we · .thee we tend,
'B.fl.. • r<••:.l 0 . ;....l d d ,, .. ."
otive, \6\I&Ue; ns..,..., an • . :. . ' .
!!
Dig•tizcd by Google
CREED OF '
.. 'l'IMft il OM God, aad'there is IIODe other but11e.:u....:Mart:dl. n.
"God is neither the object of sense, ndr tnibjeet to pas-
sion, but invisible, only intelligible, and supremely intelli-
gent. In his body he is like the light, and in· his soul he
resembles truth. He is the universal apirit that pervades
and diffuseth itself over all natw>e. All beings receive
.
their life from him. Tlt.ere is ht One only God ! ! who is
not, as some are apt to imagine, seated above the-world
beyona the orb of the univerae ;* but being himself all in
all, he sees all the beings that 'fill his immensity, the only
principle, the light of heaven, the Father of all. He pro-
duces every thing, he orders and disposes everything;he
is the reason, the and the motioa of all ·beings."-.Dr.
CoUyer'• quottitl bg 6. lliKgim, FAq. 'Cellic Druidl,
4to. p. 126. .. .
Mr. Higgins, ftdducing this bit of P&g1lnism., exclaims
" How beautiful !" But surely, he would not think of
putting these uftiGnca}ied of the deity oa a foot!ng
with the sublime description of .the ·evangelical poet Di.
Watts, who, knowing so mueh more about God than
Pythagoras did, us, - · . · ·
Ilia nostrils ·ottt'fiety
He's a eonsornia«.ftre; · .
Hie jealous ·erea biB 'Wrath inftame, . ·
. .ADd raise his vengeance higl&'r! !'' ·
' 'Wolf'I ·llymtil. book 1, hyma a.
The consolations &nd which the .Cltristiau
derives from the blessed light of the Gospel, may be best
appreciated by thus comparing them with the darknes$ of
Pap!Wun: . . . , . .
" So Jiea the IIIOW upoD a rawa'a back !" .
1'118 GOLDEN V&U&I Oi' ·PYTB.UIORA.I.
or these, l a free poeiical by the father
of the Mr. ·John AdQJDS, of Edmonton, to .whom I
•Tbla laltimeat ot Pythaaoraa, II\) 11111111-Wore the Cbrillila·tia, i1 eft.
eomJCtioD of 10me sr-r form 0 which Ia
dlelleathen 'world Wo111 the time ef etld bad beelb. ......
... wcmllll .. Ow YatAer, - - •e.
Dig,tizcd by Google
owe· Mjt of literature. The Greek text ill
below.• . .
" Let aot sot slumber clo8e thiaeteyee,
Before thou reooUeckst thrice .
Thy train ofaetiODII through the day :
' Wllere han.my teet touad out their.way ?
have I where'er I've been,
. F.rom all I've heard, from all I've ?
What know 1 mo.-e tha.t'a worth the ?
What !!ave I done that's worth the doing ?
What have I sought that I should shun
What duty have l .left undone ?
Or into what new follies run?'
These self-inquiries are the road
That leads ·to virtue and to God."
llOJlALII OP. CONI'UCJUI.
The result of the learned researches ofthe. piaue Sir
William Jones. wu, his established conviction "that a
connectiOD existed between the old idolatrous D&tions of
EtrYPt, India, G:reece, apd Italy, long before the birt\1 of
M.oaes."---.l.lrialic .Buurclw, vol. 1, p. 971. .
The philosophic Bllillie hae remarked,that e-very thing
ia Chima, India, and Persia, tende to prove that these
countries have been the depaeitaries of ecience1 not ita
inventors." t · · · .
Dr. Mosheim has proved·the establishment of the The-
-npeutan JDODb 11.t Alexandria Mfon the time when Christ
is said to h•ve been on earth ; and that these Therapeu-
t&Q Wet'!e profei80l8 ofthe Philoeophy,avow-
edly collecting and bringing together the best teaete of
moral philosophy which could be gathered from all the
various systems of the They were, for this
pose, as well as to extend their power and influence, mighty
and aot lt.Jlye of visiting China. '
Among the maxims 'which Kon-futz-IIU, or Confucius, the
o;9; ized byGoogle
I« caa••·
great Chinese philo10pher,.who had flourished abou.iliOO
years before the birth of had left to that people,
. was the Gol.DEl' Ruu of domg .unto othe111 as " you
would they should do.unto you." -
. This, the Therajleuts, adopted·into their .Moral Gnomo-
1ogue, or put into·the mouthof the Demon of the DIEaJ:-
su, from whence it pMsed jnto·the copies or epitomes of
the Diegesis, which have' been falsely taken for the orig-
lllal compositions of Matthew, Mark, and Luke.
Depending, as we necessarily m'ust, on a translation,
(for who that'had to learn any thing else, could learn the
tanguage of the Chinese ?) I follow the edition by
phus Tela, reprinted from the edition.of 1691; and colla-
ting this by the text of the .New Testament, the reader
Will !ilee that not.only the idea is precisely the same, btit
the rhythmus, manner, and· mannt-r of Bl'e
precisely the same,_ solution any hypothesis,
·but the latter 1s a plagiarism. · . · .
CoN'Fuc1m; · ' ST. ·MiTTHKw, ·..•
Maxim 24th. Chapter vi. verse 12. .
Do to another what would , , all things whatso-
he should do· unto yoa ; and do ever.ye would that men should
not unto another what you would . do ·to· you, do ye even so to
not should be done UDto you. them ; for this is the law and the
Thou only needest this. law . prophets. . .
alone ; It is the foundation and
_principle ohll the rest;.
The abridged form and more smoothly oonsttucted een-
tence, according to canons of criticism already laid down,,
·later C@mposition, oonseqwmtly the pla-
gumsm. · ·
-+- . I
CHAPTER XXXVII.
CHARGES BROUGHT . A.GA.Il'BT CBRIBTIA.!{ITY BY . ITS J:.A.IlLY
ADV'EllSA.IUES, AND THE CBllUTIA.N HANNER 01' A.!{SWEIL•
ll'G THOBE CBAllGES. .
AFTEJ1. having fairly considered andcompared_the striking
resemblane.e which subsist between the.Pagan
and Chnst1an doctrines, and alao between the Pagan and
. . . ... .
•
Chri&tian forms of worship, and given due to the
admissions which Christian divines and histonans have
made touching .that resemblance ; our method requires
that we should take some acepunt of such of the charges
which their early enemies brought against them, as their
fairness has transmitted, or their inadvertency has suffered
to escape and come down to posterity. . ·
We can never lose from this calculation, the plumb dead
weight which Christians have thrown into the
adverse scale, by those arts of suppressing facts, stifling
testimony, preventing the coming-up of evidence, persecu-
ting witnesses, and destroying or perverting the documents
that were from time to time adduced against them, of
which they stand convicted by the concurrent testimony
of all parties, and their own reiterated avowals, full often
themselves " .glorying in their shame," and boasting of
having promoted the of truth, by frauds and sophis-
tications of which their heathen adver)Jaries would have
been ashamed. · .
Were we in full possession, as in reason and fairness we
ought to have been, of the writings of Porphyry, Celsus,
Hierocles, and other distinguished and conscientious oppo-
nents of the·Christian faith; as they wrote themselves,
and not as their adversaries were pleased to write for
them, suffering them only to seem: to make such objections
as were ridiculous or weak in themselves, or such as
Christian.writers found themselves most easily able to
answer; the probability is, that the whole apparatus of
Christian evidence would be beaten oft' the field ; and we
should be able to give the fullest and most satisfactOry
planation of those . apparent defects in the manner by
which those who helc;l Christianity to be an imposture,
ought to hat1t. a884iled it, be ascribed to.their
deficiency of shrewdne8f1:or insincerity of hostility. . ,
We see even in our own days, and the author of .this
work experiences in his QWB person, in the endurance of
an unjust and cruel imprisonment,• and still to be contip- .
ued bondage of .five rears the term of that.imprison-
• ment shall have expll'ed, what sort of juetice Christians .
would be likely to show to the arguments of their oppo-
nents. Were they orators whose powers of declamatiop
their Christian adversaries must have despaired to .cope
? Why, their persons couldbe Oakhamiztd. Were they
• Thil work Wll oompoeecl ill o.kham GaoL
u•
Dig•tizcdbyGoo le
CBAB0'£1,
writers whose diligence of research, fidelity ·of statement,
and of,argilment, could not be equalled? Why,
their writmgs could be suppressed, or ·kept back as much
as possible frotn public knowledge ; and then, to be sure,
their Christian adversaries, in their guaranteed security
that all that should be heard, and all that should be read,
should be their preachings and writings only, would not
only represent their opponents as the most contemptible
orators and weakest reasoners in the world, but could
father them with such miserable specimens of eloquence,
and such jejune and feeble objections, as Origen would
exhibit as the COIJ1position of Celsus, and as Eusebius has
invented for Pdrphyry. It was never to be endured by
Christians, that an oratorwho opposed their faith should be
believed to have been eloquent, or that a writer who oon-
their opinions, shoul.d be thought to be reasonable.
CHABQJ: 1.
That THE CHRISTIAN ScRIPTURES WERE PLAGIARIBJII
J'ROM PRETIOUBJ.Y EXISTING PAGAN SciUPTUB.Es, is the spe-
cific and partiCUlar charge which the early opponents of
Christianity ought to have brought against it, ifthat charge
were The apparent flO& jONard of nu;h Cl
charge leaves in the hands of the advocates ofChristianity,
the presumption that such a charge was not tenable; and
ergo, that TUE CuanTIAN ScRIPTUREs wERE THE ORIGINAL
C)OMPOBITIONS 01' THE PEB80ft8 TO WHOM CUBI8TIAR8 THEil•
I&LVES AIJCBIBED THEil.
THE .uu:,na.
To this, ·which·is the pith· of the whole argument, lt-Ja
answered, 1st. though thetftlarge had been tenabllt,
could not, from its own nature, have been·bro1Jght for-
ward, before the Christians had first forward 'a
pretence that they were in possession of original Scrip.
. tures, and had permitted it to be generally kDdwn what
those ScriptUres were. 'But'that·pretence was not made
till after the Christian religion had been preached and ee-
tablished, a.large nu!fber of converts already made•
• " Lasdmir show afie.ntcrger • &om a late pablicatio
. n oftbeGolpek. It
- firBt reqailite, he lltatel, tliat the · n ahould be preached and utablirAecl,
ad a large number of COilVerbl made. liar' Ea.ebi1111, 8pft!8d the
Goapel over,thawon.l; uor werethey (atdieh) 11111e1a concemedto.fllrill1 .,._
ctib1:1.
Witbout to, or any lllade, or even the pre-
tended existence of any Christian writings at all, nor till
afterthe period when St. Paul says the Gospel had already
been " preached to every creature under heaven." •
After the substance of the matter which had thus at·
tained exten&ive prevalence and. general belief before it
was oommit1ed to writings of any.sort, appeared in written
documents, it is not only not likely the people who
had been already "rooted and built tip in the faith" with-
out · any service or help of such writipgs, should have
much valued or sought for means of grace that they had
so long done without ; but it is absolutely certain that
they continued to do without them ; nor was it at any
time within.the three first eenturies, that the general com-
munity ·of Christians were permitted to know what the
contents of their Scriptures were. .
And 2ndly. When the time had arrived that the charge
of plagitlrilm against the Christian Scriptures, if tenable,
should have been brought forward, the priests, in whose
hands alone the Scriptures were to be found, had acquired
such tremendous power and influence as to procure, bf
the decrees. of Constantine and Theodosius, that all wn·
Un.gs ·of Porphyry . others, that had been composed
the Christian faith, should be committed·to the
ft8.mes ; and happy was the Writer who got out of the way
·time -enough to·escape the fate of"his writings.
CHARGE !.
""Among the' various calumnies with which the wor-
·Bhippers of Christ were formeriy assailed," says the learn-
ed Sebastian Kortholt,t "the first place is justly given to
qengaaed in a moet exeellent mloillly, Iiiii-. poww."-EZ.ler'•
AftnOt. Yol. I, p. 11. What •ys-D . • . •
•"1/ ye grounded andttttled, and be not moeed atiJ"tiYfr- fie
4D.Pt oftltt GofPel, tohith ye ha11e heard, tmdtoMth tDtJt fWtathtd to enry
tl'tature tllldtr helll!tn, tohereof I, P4tll, am tiiiJde o lltaun."-CoL i. 21.
0.. ..,.,..,..,., •r•· 6allftHf. .
When wiB men learn to ue with their OWII and reason with their· OWJl
l-1. Thill Paul owns himeelf a d•eon, the lowtlllt ecc!lelialdeal
Dade of the Tbarapeutan ' 2. 'nlil was Written two y-. beCere
'illy one of oar «<OJMM)e. 8. The a-pei·of which it ll(lll&b bad been exca.iftlJ
·preached "IIDd fiillillltabliabed beilrethe reign of !
t Papuaa Obtredator, Kiloni, A. D. 1698, p. 1. In extractl hm
·til work,-I clalai lhe lillerty of.gmq my own triDilatien, without aftWDc more
diaD the note of cbaptw and pep fiom the oripal, except where there ..._ a
mthe onp11 which1bi readsins tbouibt to have 8llbacecL
·i:he charge·that .they haci'brought in new and unheard:of
and. they to the holy puriV
t.he rebgwus ceremorues of antiqwty, by the supersti·
of their novelty."
THE Al'fBWER.
· this charge the Christians only attempted to vin-
.aemselves, by the most ·exact sameness
1 • conformity of their doctrines and tenets to the p:ureet
and most respectable forms of the ancient idolatry : a
mode of argument serviceable to their cause, then, as ia
all inference of reason it is fatal now. Who would expect,
among the very first and ·ablest of a religioa
that had been rtNealed in the person of a divine prophet
who had appeared in a province of the Roman empire,
under the reign of the emperor Tiberius, such admissions
as those of their Justin Martyr, "what we say of
our Jesus Christ is nothing more than what yoQ. say
of those whom you style the sons of Jove ? As to his
being born of a virgin, you have your Peree\18 to balance
that; as to his being crucified, there's Baoehus, Hercules,
Pollux and Castor, to account for that; and as to rising
from the dead, and ascending int9 heaven, why, you
know, this is only what you· yourselves ascribe to the
souls of your departed emperors." • What short of an
absolute. surrender of .all pretence to an existence dis·
tinctive and separate from Paganism, is that
forgotten, and I am S\lfe never-
W.be·answt>red capitulation of their MELITO, bishop of
Sardis, in which, in an apology delivered to the emperor
Marcus Antoninus, in the year· 170,t he ®mplains of
certain annoyances and vexations W1)ich Christians were
at that time subjected to, and for which he claims redress
from the justice and piety of that emperor : first, on the
score thl\t none of his ancestors had ever persecuted the
·professors of' the Christian faitht .. onlyL '
who had been equally hostile to 'their subjects
or an"per-
. having .been disposed to bring the ·christian
doctrine into hatred ; and even thtir decrees had been
zeversed, and their rash enterprises rebuked, by the godly
?f Antoninus himself." Anj
'atratwn this, that all the stories of persecut1on siiflered
by Christians on tlle score of their are utte.!}y
• See thie pa•lll8 in ita pla6e 8lld reJevucy, in the Ch&pter 011 JutH. Mtlrlfr.
t See thie allo, iiDder die head Melito, in thil Dis&uu.
J4f
, And, secondly, the good bishop claims the pa-
tronage of the emperor for the Christian religion, which
he calls our pkilolophy, account of its high antiquity,
as having been imported·from countries lying beyond the
limits of the Roman empirl!, in the reign of his ancestor
Augustus; who bad found its importation ominous of good
fortune to his government." An absolute demonstration
this, that Christianity did not originate in Judea, which
was a Rot'nan pl'Ovinoe, but really was an exotic oriental
fable, about that time fl'Om the barbarians, and
mixed up with the infinitely mongrel modifications of Ro-
man piety, till it outgrew the vigour of the stock on which
it had been engrafted,. and so came to ·give its own char- .
aCter entirely to the whole system•
. The adoption of the. fabulous Ca·RitBl'U of the Hindus
per oonveyance of the .Egyptian monks into the Jtoman
empire, having taken place in or about the reign of Augue-.
tus, gave occasion to later historians to pretend that Chri11t
was born in the· reign of Augustus ; and ·to all that confu-
sion which arises from the aqyersaries of Christianity
charging it with novelty, while it's earliest advocates chal-
lenge for it the highest and most remote antiquity.•
·.
· CBAJLGE. S.
· In the edict.of Diocleiian, preserved in the fragments of
Hermogenes., the Christians are called Manichees.. It.suffi-
ciently appears tha.t the Gentiles in general·oonfounded the
Christians and Manichees, and •that there really was no
difference, or appeared to be none, between the followers
of Christ and of Manes. Let who will pr can, determine
the curious question, whether Manes and his ·followers
were heretical seceders from Christianity,or whetherthose
who afterwards acquired the name of Christians, were her-
etics from the primitive sect of Manichees. The admitted
fact of the existence of upwards of ninetr different here-
sies, or manners and variations of the telhng of the Gos-
, pel story, within the three first centuries, is proof demon-
strative that there could been no common authority
to which Christians could appeal, and, eonsequently, no
Scriptures Of higher clairrui than any of the innumerable
• Kortholti Papnu Obtrectator, eb. 1. p. 6. Pertinet bme quod Grepriaa
Naziuzen118 aftinDat, CbriltiaDam doctrioem veeenm limal e& -.-Ibi-
dao,p. 10. . ' .
Dig,tizcd by Google
aJM>cryphal verSionw, to oo1leet their opinione, •
ti1hereby to decide .their· controversies. k is admitted bf
Mosheim, that the more intelligent among the Christian
people in the third century had been taught, that true
Christianity as it was inculcated by Jesus, and not-as it
was afterwards · oorrupted by his disciples, dift'ered in few
points from the religion, properly explained aad re-
stored to its primitive purity ;• 80 that these good people
very conveniently fuupd·the way of swimming .with the
tide, and were converted to Christianity,. while con-
tinued as staunch as ever. But this, of COW'Se,
oould.be view-ed by a modern advocate of Christianity in
.no other light than 8$ an of the enemy ; how·
ever, it was neither a weak one·in itself, nor. unsuooeeeful
in its issue. " Many' were ensnared," eays the
historian, 'the aJ:>surd attempts of these insidioua
phUosophers. Some were induced by theee.perfidious strat-
agems to abandon the Christian l'eligion, which they had
-embraeed. Others, when they were taught .to believ.e
that Christianity and Parnism, properly understood, were
virtually but orie and the same religion, determined to re-
main in the religion of their ancestors, and .in tne wonhip
of the gods and goddesses. . A sort were. led, by
these comparisons between Christ and the·ancieftt philoso-
.phers, to form to themselves a motley system ·of
, composed of the tenets ·of both p&rties, and paid divine
honours indiloritri.ioately tn Chriet and to Orpheus, to
ApolloRius, and the philosopher& and heroei, whole
·names had acquired in ancient .
THE DOC'.l'RI!tJC OS' 'KJ.N&S .AND HIS IDITOR'f,
MANi, properly _
so called, though more commonly Manes
or Mani9hreus, whom the most important Christian
aect that ever existed, takes its designat!on, was by birth
aPersian, the'l\-lagi, OJ,' wise men of the
East, and himself orlgtpally one of that order. ·
The ecclesiastical historian Socra.tes gives us this a.o-
count of him :- ·. . .
"Not long before the reign Constantine, there sprang
· up a kind of heathenish Christianity, which mingled itself
. ···. .
• Moabeim, vol. 1, cent. 8, chap. 2. {;ollate benlwith tbe term1 ot oompro-
mile with Papnilm oft'eredby 8t. Peter, St. J'aal, St. Grecory, ud lloly
popea.
Dig,tizcd by Google
......... ...
witll48ettue.Christian religion ; for in thoee days the doo-
ne of Empedoclea, a heathenphiloeopher, wuclandee-
tiMly introduced into Christianity. One a
Saracen, had married a captive woman, native· of the
upper Tbebais, and upon her accouni he lived in
Kavilag been instrucU!d in the learning. of the Egyptlana,
ae·introduced the doctrine of Empedoclea and Pythagoru
into Christianity; assertiDfi the existence of two natures,
the the other evil, as did, and call-
mg·the evil nature NeikM (Discord), and the nature
Pl&ilia WrieDd8hip). Buddas, formerly nal!led Terebinthua,
'became a diJ!ciple ·of that Scythianus ; he into
Persia, where·he toldagreat many strange stories of him-
eeH,-as, that he was born of a virgin, and brought up in
tke mountains. Afterwards he wrote four books : one of
whieh wu entitled 1M .Mylltriu ; another THE GosPEL ; -a
third or the Treasury ; the fourth a· Swaaary.
Be·pretended a power to workmiraeles; but on one occa-
sion, being on a high tower, the Devil threw him down, eo
that he broke his neck and died mieerably.• The woman
at whoee house he had resided buried him, and succeeding
to·the pOMession of,his ·property,· .bought a boy of seven
years old;·whose name was Cubricw. This youth
adopted ; -and ·after having given,him hie freedom, and a
ROOd,edueation, she bequeathed him all the estate she had
deriTed·from and the books which he had
written acoording to the instrUotions of Scythianus hie
master. With theee poeeessions and adrantages, upon
1he·daath 'Of ·his patroo.eee, Cubricus went into Persia,
and name into Manu, and there gave out the
booke.wh1ch Terebinthus had thut composed, .under the
direotion of hie master Scythianue, as his own
WOJ!b. These books bore a show and colouring of Cllria-
.tiamty, but were in reality heathenish; for the impious
.Manes!directs the worship of many gods, teaches that the
•B.·ought·to .be adored. He introduces the doctrine oC
4iUal aeceseity, and denies the free ·agency of man. He
the translbigratiollof souls,t as held by Py-
. .
• who may fiDd tbiJ pa-se in Dr. Lardner'eCredibilitr,
.WL·J, p. "1, wilt oillen'e my iio!D it. I liberty 11poD
6e pollllde• ...,....._for my own trlllllllatioDofthe ori«ina1118ei£, which lllt.'M
• _,.....,_ wida wlaich 1 COIIIpllll the tut of Lulner tluoup tnery eao-
tiDce. •
t 'Die 4ealriDel ue ltill tnceabJe in the Cbriltiaa 8cript11n11 : the
an&of 8&. Jciba'a Gotpel ie evideDtlya Pythepreaa pbilOIIOJiber. Ye •"" H
Dig,tizcd by Google
c........
tlllagoras, .and the Egyptiarm. He denies tMt
Christ WM ever really.born, or had real. human flesh, but
asserts that he was a mere phantom.· He rejects the law
and the prophets, and calls himself the Paraclete or Com-
forter: All which things are far from ihe true and right
faith of the church of God. In ·his epistles ke was not
ashamed to entitle himself an apostle. At length his
abominations met with.their merited punishment." ·
"The son of the kieg of Persia happening to }lave fallen
· into·dangerous illness, his father, having both heard of
Manichmus, and believing· his miracles to be true, sent for
him as an apostle, and believed that his son ·would by his
means be restored. Upon his arrival he takes the king'•
son in hand, after the fashion of a conjuror.• But the king
having seen that the boy ·died under his hands, had him
imprisoned, intending to ·put him to death ; but he made
his escape, and came into Mesopotamia. The king of Per-
sia, hearing that he was in those pa,rts, sent after him,
and, upon his second apprehension, had him flayed alive."
-This king of Persia was Varanes the First.
Notwithstanding the calumnies heaped on Manes, ·Dr.
Lardner has shown·that he was, in the best and strictest
aeceptatioo.of the term, a rincere ChrVtian, and bas adduced
many passages from his writings equally honourable to his
understanding and t9 his heart. Not only the learned
Fausttis1t Bishop of Melevi·in.Africa; whose tremendous
charge against the authenticity of our eananical Gospels
we have givel'l ; but others, by far the most
learned,·intelligent, and virtuous men that ever professed
and called themselves Christia:ns, were Maniohmans, amd
among these was .the renowned St. AuguBtin himself, till
he found that higher distinctions and better emoluments
were to be gained by joining the stronger 'party. Where--
upon he.}eft the poor presbytery of the Manichman church,
to become the orthodox bishop of Hippo Refrlus : and from
thenceforth, with the zeal that always characterizes a
, turncoat be set himself to heap all the calumnies and mis-
: he ·possibly could upon that purer and
more which he had deserted; awk·
bom again (Iobn iii.), il the ebaracteriltic apbori.m or the Pythaaoi'I!IUl echool.
; Seethe Cbai*r :uxiii. entitled PYTRAGo:aA•, in thiil DJJ:GJ:III, p. 217. ·
"Mnu. ax'll'rnor •r.ruqatnu.a"t·or, kc. me dill
bot with a aJtXP .inhie reuderiog. . · . . ·
t Fa111ta1 ftouriahed .A. D. 884 at the latest, and bad been lmown to
A'!JIIIStio before that wily and mendacio111 eaiot. apoataw.ed fiom llaJiicheien\ to
orthodoxy. . .
I
wardly enough that he himself should never
ha've believed the Gospel, unless the authority. of the
church had induoed him• to do so. There are,
I fear, more than nineteen out of any twenty· bishops that
eould be named, who owe their orthodoxy at· this day to
the same sort.of inducement. · · .
DEHONSTIU.TION THAT · NO SUCH .PERSON AS. JESUS CBiliST
EXISTED••
There were two very different opinions concerning
Christ very early among Christians. Some, as Augustin
says,t bel.Uwed Chrisi to be God, ·and denied him to be
m&.n ; others believed he was a man, and denied him to
be God. . The was the opinion of the Manichees,
and of many others before them; of others so early, in-
deed, and so certainly, that Cotelerius, in a note on
tius's to the Trallians, assures us that it would be •
as abslird as to question that the si.m shQne at mid-day, t
to deny that the doctrine that taught that Christ's body
was a pkar&tom only, and that no sueR. person as Jesus
Christ had ever any corporeal existence, was held in the
time of the apostles . tht;
Father, expressly ceqsl\l'es th18.opwon, havmg gamed
eyen before his time. " If, as some who ate athe•
1sts-that is, tliat be only suffered in
appearance,11-an expression which, as CC!telerius ob-
serves, plainly shows the early rise. of this doctrine.
And from the apostolic age downwards, in a never inter-
rupted succession, but never so strongly and emphatically
as in the most primitive times, was the existence of
Christ as a man most strenuously denied. .. So that though
nothing 4:1 so convenient to some persons .as to assume
airs of contempt; and to cry out those who deny that
• Ego enngelio nequ quam ctediderim niBi eccleeiaf aactorital me eoiJ)moveret.
Augvat. at c,itat .Micluulit. · . . ·
t Ait enim Deal ett taatam, onmino bominil nibil Hoc
cbei dieiUlt. Photiani, homo taatam. Miulichei, Deas Berm.
. .
t A• Gbftlf'cl a. to quulion tlaat 1M nm •hone, .tc:. Solem nepret
tucere, q1li Docet¥, - phantuiutu halretieoe temporib• apo1tolonm iDfidaretur.
arupi8ae.-.Cotel. ad Ign. Ep. ad Tlrall. e. 10. . .
§ adhac in eecalo npentitibaa, adhac apad Jada!am Cbria&i •JIIIline
reeetm, phantuma Domiai corpas ai.erebatur.-.Hic:ron. ade. Ludf. T. 4, p.
104. '
nB& ,. IIN11nl/1'l1(1' """''· ·
1'0V1"11CPntl mncrro&, "
1oyov6iP 1'0 lo•u" 1111f-
.,_. CJVI"OP •• 1'.1,-Igta. ad Tlrall. 10,.et pa.rifla;
23 -
•
Dig,tizcd by Google
164
' such a ae Jesus of Nazaw:rth eYer existed, are m-
terly unworthy of being answered, and would fty in the
face of all historieal evidence, the fact of the case is, that
the being of no other vidual mentioned in history ever
laboured under.such a deficiency of evidence 88 to its-re-
. nlity, or was ever overset by a thousandth part of the
weight of prDoj positifle, that it was a creation of imagina-
_
tion only. - ·
.To the question, then, ·On what grounds do you deny.
that such a person as.Jesu8 Christ existed ae a ·man 1 the
proper answer is, . ·.
Because his as .a num hu, from the earliest
day oil which it can be shown· to have been asserted,
been as earnestly and strenuously denied, and not
by enemies of the Christian name, or unbelievers of the
Christian faith; but by the moet intelligent, moet learned,
. sincere of the Christian name,· who ever left the
world proofs of their intelligence and learning in their
writings, and ()f their sincerity in'their
And beC8.1,1se the existence of no .individual of the hu;.
race, that was real.and positive, wu ever, by a like
. of jarring evidenee, equivocal and uncer-
tain.
GH.A.RGE 4.
It was distinctly charged against·tlie early preachers of
Christbmity, that they h&fi adopted. &lld .transferred to
. their own the materials they found prepared to their
hands, in the writi'ngs of the ancient poets and philoeo-
phera ; and by giving a very slight turn to the matter,
and a mere change of name(i!, had vamped up a patchwork
of mythology and ethics, .a mixture of the Oriental Gnos-
ticism and the Greek Philosophy, into a system which
they were for foisting ·upon the world as a matter of a
divine revelation that had been espeoially revealed to
theliUielves. "All the!!e figmeJ)te· 9f crack-brained opin-
iatry and silly solace1:1 played off in the sweetness of soug
by deceitful poets, by yoo too credulous creatures, have
been shamefully reformed and made over to yo\U' own
God."• Such is the objection of Cmciliu8, in the Octa-
vius of Minucius Felix, written in dialogue, about the
• OmDia ilta . .enta mal-nee opinionil, et ioepta IOlatia, a fallaciiNI,
ill dalaedlne a vo\ill Dimium cred.U. ill Deam 'nllltnlm, tupiier·No-
fOrma&& IIIDt.-JICmueitu lf'elilr in .8pol. . ·
o;9,tizedbvGoogle '
CBAM&L
year 211. A &MWered by admission, rather
than denial, and corroborated by the
fact, that the Egyptian Therapeuts in their univers1ty .of
Alexandria, where first Christianity gained an establish-
ment, wereprOjusedlty followers .and of the&-
kclit philoeophy, which consisted in nothing else but thitl
very .overt and avowed practice of bringing together
:whatever they held to- be useful and good in all other sys-
tems ; and thus, as they' pretended, all the
rays of truth that were ·scattered through the world into
the common centre of their own system. This is fullr ad-
mitted by Laetantius, ArnQbius, Clemens Alex:andrmu8,
and Origen ; and denied by none who have ventured fear-
leesly to .in'Vestigate the r&Jl origin of Christianity•.
.CBABGE 6•.
PoRI'H'fRY,• whose very name is aoonite to Christian in-
. tolerance,.objects ·against·Origen, that, being really a Pa-
gan, and brought up in the schools of the Gentiles, he had,
to serve his own ambitious purposes, .contrived to turn the
whole Pagan system, which he had first egregiously cor-
rupted; into the theology of Christians.
. CHARGE 6. .
Cuaus, in so much.of his work concerni!l8'.tlie " TRU&
LoGos" .as Origen has thought proper to suffer posterity to
beoome acquainted with, chargee the Christians with a re-
eetnage of dootrine ancien.t Logos.t
Chargee thua afi"eeting the character of Origtn, the great
<pillar of the Christian church, cannot fall innocent of
wound on ChN.tianity ·Orige. i8 the very first of all
the fathers wbo h'ae preeented us with a catalogue of the
books contained in the New Testament. He was ·the
most laborious of all writers ; and his authoritative pen
was alone competent to produce every iota of ·variation
whieh existed between the ·ol<l, · Pagan legends of the
·Egyptian Therapeuts and that new of them
• Porph yry• bitn 'II"" and,?nconw 'II'"'
Augustin calla hiDl "CbriatiaDorum acernm-J111111111111.
t Quui re&pent- -rou 8.
Dig,tizcd by Google
!56
which first received from him the, designation of 1M New
Tutammt... . . . · . , . '
-
· ADIIIISIONS OJ' BISHOP JIAKJR,
· Bishop. Marsh, in·his Michaelis, the highest authority
. we could possibly appeal to on this subject,t admits, that
" it is a certain fact, that several in our common
printed text are nothing more than alterations·made by
whose authority was 80 great in the Christian
church, that emendatiomJ which he proposed, though, as
1\e himself ackn<>wledged, they were supported by the ev·
of no manuscript, were Yery generally received."t
The reader will do himself the justice to recollect, that
Origen lived and wrote ia the third century, and that "no
manuscript of the New Testament now extant is prior to
the sixth century ; and, what.is to be lamented, various
readings which, as appears from the quotations of the Fa.;
there, were in the text of the Greek Testament, are to be
found in none of the manuscripts which are at present re--
maining."§ ·
ADJIISSIONS, TO THE 1.\,MI: EFFECT, 01' THE EABLY FATREJl8.
• To charges of_such pregnant" inference, we find Olll'
Christian Fathers, in like manner, making answers that
only serve to authenticate those charges ; to demonstrate
that they were fpunded in truth and not in ; and
that, ans-Wered as they were, and as any thing may be,
they were utterly irrefragible. · ' ,
" You observe the philosophers," says .Minuciw " to
have maintained precisely the s&me as we Chris-
tians, but not so is it on aeoount of our haVIng copied from
them, but because they, from the divine preachings of the
, prophets, Jiave imitated the shadow of truth interpolated :
thus the more illustrious of·thefr wise men,
first, and especially Plato, with·a and .half-faith
• Bee the chapter
t " The Introdaetion to the New Testameat by Michaelis, late JlfOI'-r at Go$.
tiztrn, as tr&Dilated by Manh, ia the 1tandartl work, comprebendilig all that ie
important.on the lllbject."-The learned Billwp of Llandaff, quotetl. mEll-
kg'• Annotdtiom on tM GoiJielt, voL 1. (thointrod.), p. uvi.
t Micbaelia'• New Ta, by Bilbop Marah, vol. 2, p. 868.
§ 1bitl. •ol. 2, p. 160.
Dig,tizcd by Google
CHARGES. !57
have·handed down the doctrine of regeneratioh."• And
Laetantius, after-admitdtlg the truth of ·the story, that
man had_ been made by Prometheus out of clay,-adds,
that the poets had not.touched so much as a letter of
divine truth; but those things which had been handed .
down in the vaticination of the prophets, they oollected
from fables and obscure ·opinion, and having iaken suffi-
cient care purposely to deprave and corrupt them, in that
wilfully depravell and corrupted state they made them the
subjects of their poems.t
Tertullian calls the philosophers of the Gentiles the
thieves, the interpolators, and the adulterators·of divine
truth; that " from a -design of curiosity they put
ow doctrines into tMir. works, not· sufficiently believing
them to be divine to be restrained from interpolating them,
and they mixed that which was uncertain with what
they found certain.''¢
.Eusebiu's that the -Devil, being a very notorious
thief, stole the Christian doctrines, and carried them over
for his friends, the Pagan philosophen and poets, .to make
fun of.§ · . ·
TModoret accuses Plato especially, with having pur- -
posely mixed muddy and earthy filth with the pure
tain from which he drew the arguments of his theology.ll
Thus, if we may believe Euseblus, the beautiful fable
of Ovid's Metamorphosis, describing Phaeton fall.ing from
the chariot of his father, the Sun, .was nothing more than
a wicked corruption of the unquestionable truth ·of the
prophet Elijah having been caught up to -heaven, as
described (2 Kings ii.), "Behold there appeared a chariot of
fire, and HORsEs of fire, and Elijah vent up -by a t.ehirlwincl
itato l&tat1eri;" the heathens so _
ignorant as to eon-
found the name Helias with Hehos, the word for
the Sun. _ .
The almost droll Justin Martyr gives us a most satis-
factory explanation of the..whole matter; .that "'it having
reached the Devil's ears that the prophets had foretold
that Christ would come for the purpose of tormenting the
• Quoted in Obtreetator, p. 84. - '
t Lactantii lustit. lib. S; cap. 10. Sic etiam CODditicinem renuceadl, aapien-
1iam clariores, Pytbagoru primu, et pnecipuu Plato, corrapta et climidiata fide
lrlldidenmt.-Min. Feliz. ' . ·
*TertuL Apolog. cap. 46, 47. . •
§ yaq ·<I au• -ro '11'01•(1(1 •"flltqo,uWt""' "('Of 'I'OVf OOWOtl vno
ltd perdidi locum. .
I Bf "'f ovro-r lo(l.., -"oloy&lllf -rof INJIO(!/<Gif -ro al..,.r •cu yelller
-2'1aeodoritw TherGJieuf· libro I, tit Platorae ·
JS• '
· Dig,tizcd by Google
!58 cRAaau.
wicked in fire, he set the heathen poets to bring forward a
great m,any who should be called (and w.ere called) SO.DS
of Jove. The Devil laying his scheme in this, to get men
to imagine that the.true history of Christ was o.f the same
character as those prodigious fables and poetic stories."•
I render from the beautiful Greek of Theodoret, a pas-
sage of considerable elegance, in which the reader will
trace the rising dignity of superior manner, and cul-
·tivated taste-with which an historianofthefourthcentnry.
could improve and varnish the awkward sophistry of the
honester Christian Father of the second:-
.'' But if the advenaries of truth (our Pagan opponems)
so very much admired the truth, as to adorn their own
writings even with the smallest portions they could pillage
from it, and these, though mixed with much falsehood,
yet dimmed not their proper beauty,·but shone like pearls
resplendent through the squalors in which they lay, so
that, according to the evangelical doctrine, the light
shone in the darkness, and by the ·darknees itself.was not
concealed; we may easily understand how lovely and ad-:-
mirable the divine doctrines must be, secerned from false-
.hood, for so ditfers the gem in its rough matrix, from what
it is when seen resplendent in a diadem.''t .
CHARGE 7.
The Emperor Julian-who, with all imperfection&
on his head, was an ornament to hwnan nature, and can
by no means be conceived to have wanted any possible
means of information on the subject-objects against the
olaims of Christianity, what a thousand testimonies con-
firm, that it was a mixture of the superstition and
philosophy, so as to incorporate the Atheism of the
one with the loose and dissolute manner of living of the
other. "If any one," says he, "sholild wish tO know the
.Jf·-·fCif ,..,....,0.......,. ...., Zflltn'..., ..... '"",..,
TOVf n-oUov, l!X-"/t'lll 'I"GI 6u, "¥•torr,.
••f0'tUIIt 'l"lflll'l"olilyca• 'lr'f6"""'"' .... '1"1» 'I"OV Zflttn'OII, -
Of'o•-r TO'' vno '1"- no•'l'l"- .loz.t..ua.-JUttitai. Apoltlg. ll. ·
t -'' 61 "' oa njf lll.,.tocaf Clft"utrll.loa ow• wo,..6, ...,..a.,.,,..,,.,
'"'' •••"'•• -
noll• tp•m• 'l"ati'I"CJ 14'Y.VI4'"" 14'1 a14f1.iv1t• To Ufl'l"l('o.. CLUG ..;,.
-· 9'oqv'I"GI ltlt/4I•OVf UCJ'I"(/CJ1rrll1' .lta'l', ltllt .lta'I"GI IWij'yoJunp
lc6aumuw, n ,.,, .,. nj a•OTca fa.t"""• vno ...,, "f''ln'_...
lwa6u• 01rGif •tl'!•• TGI .&aa• 'I"OV...,...
4oUf •z-911Sf.- 6!,1J"GV IXIl I'Offll{!fn!f: IF ,_..,.,... IINIJI"I
'"''.. .l11!41f-X.Wod4nt. n.r.,..,liiiiO a.. ... .'
Dig,tizcd by Google
· • CII.4&GJCI·. .168
truth with respect to you Christisns, he will find your im·
piety to be made up partly of the Jewish audacity, and
partly of the indifference and .confusion.of the Gentile•,·
and that ye have put together, not the the worst
characteristics·of them both."*
The answer to which charge, on, the part of the advo-
cates of Christianity, was; that they neither took them to
·be gods whom·the Geniiles considered t() 'be such, and so
were not BMimilated to the Gentiles; nor did they respect
the deisideinony of the Jews, aB.d so were not adherents
to Judaism. Nor was it a small matter of triumph to their
cause; to contrast.the appMent contrariety of charges that
were alleged against'them; in that as Julian accused them
of adopting the tll()f"Bt pal"ts of Gentilism, Celsus had ae- ·
cmsed them Of sele_cting the best parts.
THE CHARGES OF
It is never to be forgotten, that the charges of Celsus
stand only in the la:nguage in. which Origen has been
pleased to invest them; nor is 'it any very monstrous
phenomenon that such wholly differentcharaetere as Julian
and Celsus were, should either of them, with equal con-
scientiolisness, have esteemed those self same things the
best, which the other considered the worst parts of Gen·
tilism. · .
Celsus, an Epicurean philosopher, might very naturally
think that an impostor acted with sound policy in giving
to his system all the it could de-
rive frQm.the closest convenient conformity to the Epicu-
rean carelessness of living, and indulgence in innocent,
or even in perhaps not quite innocent pleasures; while
Ju1ian, all wliose virtues were of the severest and most
.rigid self-restraint, looked with horror on the license which
the doctrines of the apostolic chief of sinners had
to countenance in the lives and manners of the Chnettans.
The charge of the Emperor JUlian 'is in striking coinci·
dence of verisimilitude with the apparent fact of the ease,
that Paul of Tarsus, who, in his Epistle'to the Colossians,
calls himself a deacon of the Gospel,t and who could have
stood in that humble grade, only as a servant and ·mie-
• Et-n' vneq v,.- ,,,Jo; OJiomtttJ •ilqlfO'It '"I" v;trnqoY IK1o{lup •m tovct...
alfl' 'foll"!f Jf(JI 'f'l' .'1"01, 1,10t1' tHtCJrpGqt!l"' Jf(Jt XV61JIO'f'J'f0' 11fJYitfi/'I"'J", It
.,.,,,., yll(l ovn -ro JtaUta-r- a.Uo n oA1t1111can1' noqvltl'T" ltCJlrtll"l 110'CJIJ(I(1"'•
-Julian aputJ CY.rill, lib. 2. .
t That ill ill the Greek teit. ,, . · ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
160
.
CBIUSTIAK &TIDEKCES.
. .
· sionary from the Thela.peutan college; schismatised ftom
the church, and set up in trade for himself. - He opposed
the ascetic··discipline in which be had been trained, and
thus drew to his party that large majority of ignoramuses
which in all ages and countries are eager to embrace every
part·of superstition but its· mortifications and· restraints.
There were innumerable other charges brought against the
early Christians, which, as they ·impinge on their moral
only, and'might be either true or false without
fMttriGUy affecting the evidences of the religion they pro-
fessed, lie ·beyond the scope of this DrEGEsrs. Their
amount in evidence is, that they 'susWn the fact, that
whatever the prmeiples- and conduct of Christians may be·
supposed to have ·been, they were never such as to- con-
quer the prejudices or to.CQnciliate the affections of their
fellow men. ·Tacitus, Suetonhts, .and Pliny have ·spokea
of them in the 19ost teriD8; and though it
might be that those really wise andgood men were unfair-
ly prejudiced, yet it must cost any man who i8 not preju-
diced hiiDBelf, an effort to think so.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
CBlliSTIAK EVIDENCES ADDUCED FROM CBlli.ITU.N
WRITINGS•
._TaE New Testament is in eveey one's bands:· the claims
of the four ·gospels tqerein contained we have already ·
considered. . . ..
The thirteen epistles, purporting to .have been written
by an early convert to Christianity; 111/w 111as befcwe a bku-
phemet', a pmuutor, and the anonymous epistle
to the Hebrews; the one of Jamefil; one of Jude; two of
Peter; three of John: and the Apocalypse, or Revelation
of St. Jolm the Dimne ; though all of them, except the
ApOcalypse,,are admitted to have been written before
any one of the four gospels; are entirely date,
and will read well .to an understanding or supposition
of their having been written. five or six hundred, or
even a thousand years, either earlier or later than th.e
period to ·which they are usually Certain it
• I Tim. i. 18. •
Dig,tizcd by Google
CBJliSTIAl'f EVIDENCES. !61
is, that they contain not a single phrase of a nature .or
significancy to fix ·with any satisfactory probability the
time when they were written; but from beginning to end
they proceed on the recognition of an existing church
government and an established ecclesiastical polity which,
on the supposition of its origffiation in events that hap-
pened later than ihe time of Augustus, must outrage all
our of history, and aH·cominon sense, to be
reconciled With the supposition of their having been writ·
ten by the to whom they are ascribed: as 'tis
certain that no such state of church government, that could
be properly called Chrif!tian, existed or could have existed
among the followers of a religion which had originated in
the age of Augustus, or among any persons who had been
/Iii contemporaries. ' .
The Acts of the ·Apostles is evidently a broken nal'ra·
tive, and gives us no account whatever of what became
of the immediate disciples of Christ, or how or with what
success they executed the important commission they had
from their divine master; ·save, that 'udas the
traitor is said to have·come to a violent death, as a judg·
ment of God upon his perfidy; and that Peter and John
were imprisoned as impostors, after· having received
Holy Ghost, and been endued with the gift of speaking all
the languages.of the earth (a miracle which no rational
being on earth believes}; and that James was put to death
by Herod. ·
The last account we have of Peter in the sacred histo·
rr, requires us to believe, that after havilig been delivered
from prison by the intervention of. an angel, his chains
{allin,r off, and the ponderoUs iron gate opening of his oom
GCcorl, he went down from, Judea to Cmsarea, and thera .
abode."•
The last we learn of Paul is, that " Paul dwelt two
whole years iil his own hired house, and received all that
came into him; preaching the kingdom QfGod, and teach··
those things which t!'te L?rd Jesus Christ,
Wlth all confidence, no man forbuldtng
The evident air arid aim of this account, as far as it
goes, is palpably incompatible with any notion of the
apostles having suffered martyrdom; it rather seems to . ,
make an ostentation of their prodigious success, and their
perfect prosperity and security, and that too in Rome, in
•
Dig•tizcd by Google
!6! CRBUTIAft tVIDENCEt.
. .
the immediate neighbourhood; and under·the goverhment
of the tyrant ·Nero: while. the insinuation at least with
respect to the melancholy ·end of Judas, is, that the apos-
tles themselves would have considered martyrdom as dis-
honourable to their religion, .and their being put to violent
and cruel deaths, an indication of the divine displeasure,
as it is evidently represented to have been, upon Judas.•
The names and order of the twelve apostles, in the last
list we have- of them, are
1. Peter, 5. ·Philip, ·· 9. James Alpbeus,
2. James, - 6". . 1(). Simon Zelotes,
:J. John, 7. ,Bartholomew, 11. Jude,the brother of James,
4. Andrew, 8. Matthew, 12. Matthias. '
In the wu of the .llpoltlu, written by the eunuch Doro-
lhetu, bishop of Tyrus, who died A. o. S661 we have the
following. brief account of tlie apostles respeetivelr:
1. SIMON PETEB. .
SIMON PETER is the chief of the .apo&tles. He, as we
are given to understa,nd by his epistles, preached the Goe-
pel of our Lord Jesus Christ in Pontus, Galatia, Cappado-
cia, Bithynia, and in.the end preached at Rome, where,
afterwards, he was crucified, the third kalends of July,
under Nero the emperor, with his head downwards (for
that was his desire), and there also buried. ·
. 2. JAMES•
.k.mu, the son of Zebedee, a ·fisherman, preached. t"
Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ unto the twelve
tribes. He was·slain with the sword, by Herod the te-
trarch, in Judea, where also he was buried. ·
·8. JoHN.
John, the brother of James, who was·also an eva.Dgelist,
whom the Lord loved, preached the Gospel.of our Lord
Jesus Christ in Asia. The emperor .Trajan exiled him
into the Isle of Patmos for the word· of ·God, where he-
wrote alsohis gospel, the which afterwards he published
at Ephesus, by Gains, ·his host and deacon. ·Mter the
death of Trajan, he returned out of the Isle of Patmos,
and remained at Ephesus, until he had Ji"9'ed ·a·hundred
and twenty years, at the end of which, he being yet in
full health and strength (for the Lord would have it so),
• See thia qllelltioa tealed ia the cbapter OD Martyrdom.
Dig,tizcd by Google
I .
ORI\IsTUlf EVIDBNOJ:I.
digged his own grave, and buried himself alive. There
are eome which write that he was not banished into the
Isle of Patmos under Trajan, but in the time of Domitian,
tile son of Vespa'sian. · : ·· . .
The translaror of this JoaN, St. Jerome, quotes "the au·
thority of Tertullian to prove, that in the time of Nero,
he was thrown at Rome into a tun of hot boiling oil, and
thereby he took no harm, but came .forth after trial
purer than when he went in. . St. Augustine relates, that
" after St. John had made his grave at Ephesus, iiJ. the
presence of divers persons, he.went into it .alive, and
being .no sooner in, and as appeared to the by-standers,
dead, they threw the e!lrth in upon him, and coveredhim;
but that kind of rest was rather to be termed a state of
·sleep than of death; for that the eartq of the grave buh-
bleth and up to this day after the-manner of
well,- by reason of John resting therein and breathing-
a sign that he only slumbereth there, but is hot really
dead! And till Christ shall come again, thus he remains,
plainly showing that he is alive by the heaving up of the
earth, which is caused by his breathing; for the dust is
believed to. ascend from t4e bottom of the tomb to the
top, impelled by the state of him resting beneath it.
Those who the place," adds this. conscientiously
veracious Father, "must have seen the earth thus
heave up aad ·down;· and that it is truth? we
kre assured, . as having heard it from no light-minded
4. ANDREW,·
The brother of Simon Peter, as our elders have deliv·
ered unto us, preached the GOspel of our Lord .Jesus
Christ unto the Scythians, Sogdians, Sacians, and in .the
middle Sebastopolis inhabited of wild 'Ethiopians.. He
:was crueified by JEgeas, king.of the Edessrens, and
at Patris, a city ,of Achaia. · '
I
• " Idem Aagustinils -rat Apos&Olam Jobannem vivere atque- in illo aepul-
ehro ejaa, quod est apud Ephesum, 4}ormire eum potiaa quam mortuam jacere
conteodat. . Assumat in argumentum quod illic terra aeu8im seatere et quui
ebullire perbibeatur, atque boe ej1111 anhtllitu fieri. Et cam mortuus putaretur,
eepultum Caisse dormiimtem, et donee Christus veniat, sic manere, 111amque vitam
aeaturigine pulveria .indieare : 9,Ui puiTill ereditur ut ab imo ad nperfieiem tumali
eeeendat atatn quesi:entisimpelltl • • • Viderillt qui locum llcilmt-qllia et l'llvei'a•
11011 a lnibll8 hominibll8 id audirimus. Ad ham rem tam Ia#' t,._
f\jicllftdGm Codke Apoerypllo, tom. 2_. p. 690, m
•
Dig•tizcd by Google
164 CIIIUITIAN. EVID&l"Ct:t.
5. -PHILIP.
Philip, of the city of Bethsaida, preached the Gospel in
Phrygia; he was honourably buried.at Hierapolis, with
his daughters. In Acts viii. 39, Philip is described as pos-
sessing'the power of rendering himself invisible.
. 6. THOMAS,
.IJ.s it hath bun unto us,"" preached the Gospel of
our Saviour Jesus Christ unto the Parthians, Medea, and
Persians; he preached also unto the Caramaris, Hircans,
Bactrians; and .Magicians! ·He.rested at Calamina, a city
in India, being slain with/ a dart, where he was a1so hon·
ourably buried. '
"{. BARTHOLOMEW
Preached the Gospel of our Lord Jesus unto the
Iftdians, and delivered unto them gospel of Matthew.
He rested, and was buried in Albania, a _city of Annenia
the Great.
·The translator, Peter.de Natalibus, informs us, that this
St..Bartholomew was nephew to the king of Syria. An-
l tonius, in his Chrenicle, writeth, that some have delivered
thf:\t he_was beaten to death with cudgels; some, that he
was crucified with his downwards;' others, that he
was flayed alive; and others,. he was beheaded, !lotthe
commandment of Ptolemams, king of India; btit Peter de
Natal, together with Abdias, bish6p of Babylon, reconcile
the whole in this manner: how that the first day the apos-
tle waei beaten with cudgels, the second day crucified and ,
flayed alive, and afterwards, while ·yet he continued to
breathe, beheaded. . · .
With all du.e to such profoundly learned author-
ities, I could another way .of the whole
matter. This royal was especially distinguislled
for llis miraclllous power. of rendering himself-invisible,
and slipping through key-bole into bed-chambers, for
the greater convenience ofgiving lectures to young ladies,
on the immacuJ.ate conception Qf the Virgin Mary.f Tbis
faculty he pos_sessed in common St. Philip. ·
• Surely·this is a very saspicioassort of wiwd.ingfor the first and eulieltfilii.
.mony i:8n be pretended to the .existew:e of so extraordinary a TboUIIIIL
t Et Cll!pit q.amrere ol8d nl!'l e";Dl. •
utem at apparult Apoatolllll OBtio cla11110 m IJIIIIIIII diceaa Dihi1 camall
clesidero IIOd ICire te volo quia filiu. Dei in .virplis vulva coDCeplllr, iJder11t
8IICleta taiU utI quaterqw plul f'"ll'MIU!
o;9; ized byGoogle
ORJUITU.l( EVIDDO.I.
· . · · 8. MATTHEw,
The evangelist, wrote the Gospel of our Lord Jesus
Christ in the Hebrew tongue, and delivered it unto James,
the brother of the .Lord according to the flesh, who was
bishop of Jerusalem. He died at Hierapolis, in Parthia,
:where he- also was honourably buried.
9. JAMES AJ.PIIEUS.
James, the son of Alpheus, was bishop of Jerusalem
by the appointm.ent of the other apoStles. ·He was killed
by St. Paul. · Having been set by the Jews upon a pinna·
cle of the temple, Saul, who was afterwards called Paul,
thrUst him off; and while yet he breathed after his fall,
one came with a fuller's club and brained him.
10. SIMON ZELOTES.
Simm& that is, Simon the Fanatic, preached Christ
throughout and the Lesser Africa; at length he
was crucified in Britannia, slain and burie(i.
Jl. JUDE.
Jude, the brother of JameS", called also Thaddreus and
Lebbreus, preached unto the Edessreans, and throughout
all Mesopotamia. He'was slain at Berytus, in the time of
Agbarus, king of Edessa, and buried very honourably.
These twoapostles, St. Simon and St. Jude, are generally
mentioned together, and seem to have been inseparably
united through the whole course of their truly incredible
adventures. Their conunemoration is kept by the church
of England on the 28th day of October. Their conjoint
miracles of healing all manner of diseases, raising the
dead till churchyards were completely useless, and wor-
rying and tormenting the poor devils till they howled and
sque8led, and wishea themselves back again in hell from
whence they had issued; are but every-day work, common
to them with all the rest of the apostolic community. But
they were more especially distinguished by their holy
zeal, and their exertion of miraculous energies in protect-
.ing the moral character -of those whom they had once
'admitted into holy orders. • " They had with them many
" Habebunt autem I8CIIIII diiiCipQ)oe multue, ex quibus otdinaburt per civitates
prabyterot, t1t diacoD08 et clericoe, et eccleeial multas couetituebant. Factum fJil
ntem ut unue ex diaco11ib• pMeret1H crimen incelti. Erat enim vicio1111 filie
Burape cajuldull ditilllmi bominie, penlita •irginitate partum adeM perieli-
llibatar, Jalerrilpta autem a pareatibal virum Dei 8111lCtam et eutam Ellphrofi.
IIIUil diacoiiiUD impe&ebat. ' Qui taltal • paniDtibal paella vpbatu abile ...
t4
Dig•tizcd by Google
•
JS6. nwlltl'O•-.
disciples, out of whom they ord.ained in every city, priests,
deacons and.Clerks, and for whom they built innwnerable
churches. It happened ihat one of their deacons was
accused of criminal conversation. The daughter of a
wealthy satrap being found in the plight of the Virgin
Mary, after !!he had receiv,ed the salutation of the angel
Gabriel, but not able, like her, to persuade the world that
her pregnancy resulted from the obumbralioo of the Holy
Ghost, upon being questioned by her parents, swore her
child upon the chaste and holy deacon Euphrosinus, upon
, whom her parents were for ta_king the .law; which, when
the apostles ·St. Simon and St. Jude heard, they. oame
instantly to the girl's parents, who, upon seeing the
apostles, loudly accueed the deacon of the crime. Then
the apostle said, 'When was the child born?' And they
answered, 'This very day, at one o'clock/ Then said
they, ·' Bring the infant and this deacon, whom you accuse,
together before us.' And, upon the infant and the deacon
, being confronted, the apostles addressed the new-born
babe, and said, ' In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
speak and tell us if this deacon got you.' Whereupon
the babe, with most perfect and complete eloquence,
. answered, ' Gentlemen, I assure you that this deacon is ·
holy and chaste, .and has never -·-.' (The reader roust
translate the rest on't for himself-the young one was a
bit of a wag.) But the parents of the girl insisted that
the apostles should make the child tell (if the deacon was
not his father) who else 1Jia8. The apostles answered and
said, ' Oh, no; it is our place only to absolve the inno-
cent, not to betray the guilty.' " There was evidently a
good understanding between the apostles .themselves and
the y6ung one. . .· ,
.\
1.2. MAiTljll.U., .
·.Matthias, being one ·of the seventy duc&F, was, after..
wards numbered with the eleven apOBtlu, m the room of
dio&am. Quod ubi Apoetoli audiverunt, venenmt ad paelle. At illi cam.
adspexiseent apoetoloe, ceperent clamare et diacon111D ream haju eriminia accaare.
Tuin Ar*"li: quando inquiunt natus eat paer'? JWpOJiderunt bodie hora diei pri-
ma. Dieunt ei Perducite hue infaDteal, et diaetiiiiiJil qt8ll .._...
hue parlier addueitll. C111Dque in -t, alloquuntur &JIC!Iltli infautem.
"In IIOIDioe Domini DOIItri Je1111 Chrilti loquere, et ctic li illte dilco.._
,..._uhaDe iniquitatem.;, Tam infaM ablollllillimo ll8diiOlllt ah, " Hio cia.
ooD118, vir andal et eutu 8lt et nuaqnam inquiw;,it oahllllll-.alll.•• . R-. _.
&all imi«ebut paNatel ApoetoJil, lit. de pel'IIOD& inful i..-i. Qlli
diunmt: 1101 inDoeen&ee 10lvere deoel, et noC811tAW prodere aoa ....._De S&
" JucfG &torN! •• lib.. e. e. 11.
Dig• izcd by Google
CBIUITIA.l'f EVIDENCES. 16'7
Judas the traitor. He preached the Gospel in Ethiopia,
about the haven called Hyssus and the river Phasis, unto
barbarous nations and cannibals. He died at Sebasto-
polis, and was burled near the temple of the Sun.
CEPHAS.
It appears from the Catalogue ofDorotheus,that Cephas,
who was one of the 8ft7eftty disciples, and not one of the
WltlDe apostles, was the person whom Paul reprehended
at Antioch, and that he was' bishop of Cannia. For
Cephas is a Syriac word of the same sense and signifi-
cancy as Peter, or Petra, a rock,• yet have we this positive
testimony of Dorotheus, who wrote earlier than Eusebius,
and all the conceivable congruities of the case, supported
by the explicit and positive testimony of Eusebius, and of
Clemens Alexandrinus, that Ceph& and Peter were wholly
distinct personages.f By this understanding we evade
the revolting absurdity of the supposition, that Paul, a
late convert, should have taken upon himself to withstand
Peter to the face, when he was come to Antioch (Gal. ii),
while we retain the other horn of the dilemma, that Paul
has, in his 1st Epistle to the Corinthians (chap. xv.), giv-
en an account of the resurrection of Christ, utterly irre-
ooncileable with that of either of our four goepels4
ORIGIN OJ' THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES.
This critique is of most essential inasmuch,
as.if valid, it tends to detect and cut otr the sophistical
artifice which would endeavour to connect the narrative
and probable part of the Acts of :the Apostles with· the
mystical personages and adventures of the Gospel, there-
by to reflect something of the air of historical
probability which attaches to the mere journal of the
'toyages and travels of s·ome schismatical ·missionaries
trOm the Egyptian monasteries, upon the wholly super-
• It ill i:n French onJy that the miaerable pan on St. Peter'• IIIIIDfl ill euct-
"T. • .l"Krri et IAit oeUe pkn-e.,; Tbe II8Dl8 ill imperfect in Greek, Latia,
hiiU, IDe. 1lllCI totally in oar Teutoaic laDplp
t HI' .lCl-'11"'""'__,"'I""' K.,,..,., n•e• ov ffJO'" o l1C11VlD,, on Ia
.U. J[1ffCII' "' A:vnoxiWI', neoaomor CWTll> CllrTICI'Ojr, OT< ICCIITI)"'GIIJI'IrO' '1">
- ll"'"' ytyoroMl T..,. OI""""I'Of' llnell> Tti)'YG•OPTCII T•
117rtcrrol•.-Eu.eb. Eecl. llist. lib. 1, c. 12, C.
*Neither abe Pc:n:a nor the Jun.a.• of the ActB ofthe ApostleB are the IllUDe
elluacten u the Peter ud J•of the G08p81s, nor can the two hislor8 be fair-
ly NCODciled.
Dig,tizcd by Google
CHJliiTIAN EVIDENCES.
natural dramatis pmonm of the Gospel, and to make the
.one seem a sequel and a continuation of
'fo this device solely, we owe the canonicity of the
Acts of the Apostles, an evident as it is, and an
awkward jumble of fiction and fact, romance and real his-
tory. It was held necessary (so as it were to bring heaven
and earth together) that some account, it mattered not
what, should be crammed down the gaping throat of that
natural curiosity which would want to know what became
of the glorious company of the apostles after they had seen
Jesus Christ ascend up through the clouds, pass through
Orion's belt, and take his chair at the right hand of God.
So late, however, as A. D. 407, the beginning of the fifth
century, the Acts of the Apostles had not gained general
.acceptance, or was rather too gross a finesse even for the
credulity of the faithful. · ·
· Chrysostom, bishop of Constantinople at that time, in
his first homily upon the title and beginning of this legend,
.says, " To ·many this book is unknown, by others it is
despised, because it is clear and easy." The first of his '
homilies upon the whole book begins with the sentence,
" By many this book is not at all known, neither (the book)
itself, nor who wrote and it together.""'
CASE OF ST. JUDAS ISCA.JliOT.
Judas lscariot, though thrown out of the list of apostles,
by an apparent. conspiracy of the ·rest against him, had,
in the contexture of Gospel-story, certainly been
chosen and appointed to the apostleship by: Christ himself,
had .received and exercised the gift of miracles, had cast
out as many healed as many patients, and restored
as many dead folks to life, as any of his apostolic brethren.
His being the treasurer. of the Mendicity Society, having
the bag, and bearing what was put ·therein, is a strong
presumption that he was·the most trustworthy among
them. The and the intensity of.his repentance
for having betrayed Jesus-his returning the wages .of
iniquity which he had received, and above all, his offering
himself to the imminent hazard of.death, by coining for-!
ward and protesting to the innocence of his master, when ,
all his other disciples forsook him and fled, and then
CIIIUITIAN IIVIDE:KCSI. J69
· terminating· hie own life in an agony of sorrow for h.is
fault; are allev.ating considerations, which must render
him, with all but bad-hearted people, rather an object of
pity than of hatred; and when Peter, who clll'sed and
swore, and lied and perjured, till the veey cock crowded
1hame on him; was forgiven upon a '!Dink, Judas must
tainly -be considered as having.been very unfairly used.
But no ingenuity of critical chicane can reconcile the
character of the Judas the gospels with the personage
who bears the same name in the Acts of the Apostles; they
are-wholly different characters. . · .
ne Juda8 of the Gospels
Repented;
7Yle of the .&u
Did not repent';
Returned the money to the chief
p_riesta and elders ; ·
Kept the for hia own use;
Cast it down in the temple, and
departed; . ·
Died by his own act and will.
Bought a. field with it;
Died by accid.ent.
' !Jlf
,.
Next to the immediate apostles, in apostolic dignity, and
first of ·all real person8ges whose existence there is no
reason to doubt, however much there may be to question
w-hether their adventures and were such as
have ascribed to them, are the two unapoatolieal
evangelists, Mark IUld Luke, and that ltCIII of the apMtltl,
•Ito tiiCJ8 not meet to he called an apollle,• Paul of Tarsue, the
apostolic clt.itf·of rinnm.t '
MAn
'nle evangelist, to Eusebius; was bishop of
Alexandri.a. " He preached the says Dorotheus,
" unto the people of Alexandria, and all tbe bordering re-
aions from Egypt unto Pentapolis• .In·the time of Trajan,
lie had a cable-rope tied about his neck at Alexandria, by
which he was drawn from the place called Bucolus unto
the place called .lhgtll, where he was burned to ashee by
•the furious idolaters, in the month of April, and buried at
BucohliJ.
LUKE
The evangelist, of the city of Antioch, by ,profession a
physician (i. e. a 'fherapeut), the Gospel as he
,..... Dig,tizcd by Google
.no CHaiiTlAN li:'Vll>DCBI. ·
heard ·Peter ,the apostle preach, and the .Aets of the
Apostles as .Paul ·delivered unto him. He accompanied
the apostles .in their peregrinations, but especially Paul.
He died at Ephesus, where he was also buried;• and after
many years, together with Andrew and Timothy, he was
translated to Constantinople, in the time of Constantiu8,
the.son of Constantinus Magnua.
PAUL,
Being called of the Lord Jesus Christ hb11self after his
assumption, and nwnbered in the cata:Iogue of the apostles,
began to preach the Gospel from Jerusalem, and travelled
through Illyricum, Italy1 and Spain. His epistles are ex-
tant at this day full ·or all heavenly wisdom·.t · He was
beheaded at Rome under Nero, the third ltalends ol July,
so died a martyr, and Iieth there, buried with Peter the
apostle."-Thus far Dorotheus. •
Though can be no doubt of the existene:e of St.
Nul, of his being entirely such a character as he is in the
·New Testament represented to been, and that the
epistles which go under his name are competently authentic,
and such as without a most unphilosophical and futile
litigiousness, .no.·man would think .of to have
been written by. ·J,im, excepting·()nly a few lDlmaterial
interpolations; yet for the fact of his having been be-
headed by order of Nero, or· having suffered
in any we have no better .authority than I!IUCh as
those who would have us believe it, would be a!Jhamed to
produce; that is, neither other nor better authority than
that of Linus, the imaginary successor of the imagin&ry
St. Peter in the bishopric of Rome, who would persuade
us·
, that "after Paul's hep.d was struck off by the sword
of the executioner, it did with a loud .and voice
utter forth, in Hebrew, the name ofour Lord Je.$usChrist,
while, instead of blood, it was nought but a stream of
pure mille that flowed from his veins;" or that of Abdias,
bishop of Babylon, who assures us, that when his head ·
• The particular cue wblch thiB historian abo- for an m;.aiatB .ad
martyt'IJ buried is', to ·atteat tbe identity or their reliea, which recaiDed'
their miraculoua virtue (or .a8ee, aDd .thua aehieved u many miracles after their
as tbey bad ever, living. . From the time-when th-e wortbill
buried tiD the acoa.ion of CoiiiW1liue muat have been of 800
10 that in the DatliraJ oJ,d« o( things, eve.y particle of their bodiep 1J1111t haft
or away; bat J'tMt funn'a ttirliut. ·
t Tbie beaval7 wildDJa il & YflfJ particaJar IOrt ofwildom.
Dig•tizcd by Google
!'71
· W88 cht off, iMtead of blood, ran milk, so that the milky
wave flowed·all over the sword, and washed over the ex-
ecutioner's arm.• . · .
In a church at Rome, at this day called .!lt the three foun--
tains, the S.t. Paul was beheaded, they show
the identical spot where the milk spouted forth froni his
apostalical arteries, and where, moreover, his head, after
it had done preaching, took three jumps (to the honour of
the holy Trinity), and at each spot on which it jumped
there instantly struck up a spring of living water, which
retains this-day a plam.and distinct taste of milk. Of
all which facts, Baronius, Mabillon, and all the gravest
authors of the. Roman Catholic communion, give us the
most credible and assurance.t . .
It would be an injustice, however, to father such mira-
cuJ.ous accounts exclusively on the writers of.the Roman
Catholic communion. We should not have· even a single
credible witness left to ascertain to us, that Christianity,
in any shape or guise, o:ontinued in existence, or what
it was, after it passed from the first to other hands, should
we the most egregious, atrocioQB, impudent
as a disparagement to the credibilityof Christian
It no fanatic or enthusiast who is himself deceived, but
it is the calm, serious, calculating, most· sincere, most
accomplished, inost veracious St. ·Augustin, who, in his ·
88rd Sermon addressed to , his reverend brethren, fear-
lessly stakes his ete.rnal to the fact, which
was as true as the Gospel, and for ·which there can
be no doubt that )le would as cheerfu}Jy Q.s for the
Gospel have suffered himself to be burned at the stake;
that " he himself being at time bishop .Hippo
Regius, had preached the. Gospel of our Lord and ;:,aviour
Jesus Christ to a whole nation of men and women that
had no h.eads1 but had·their ·eyes in their bosoms; and in ·
countries still more southerly, he preached to a nation
among whom each individual had but one eye, and that
situate in middle of the forehead.+ While the no less
credible Eusebius assures us, that on some occasions the
bodies of the martyrs W:ho had been· devoured by wild
•FJe:ri.. cracisque signo muni8118, prmbuit ;
E cujus gladio,11-to capite, pro sanguine l!lll cucurrit ita ut perc118110ns dextram
1
: Jactea -.nda perfimderet.-.8po1tol. But. lib. 2, p. 455. ·
t Bee the etatem.ent to tJie aeilse, not the letter, ill Dr. Midd}eson'a .Leuer tiom .
p. 127. . · , .
*.SJDtagma• p. aa.
Dig,tizcd by Google
J'fJ CRRUTIAK B'YIDI:N.CBI.
beasts, upon the beasts being strangled, were found alive.
in their stomachs, even after having been completely
digested.* . · . · .
Such -statements, and ecclesiastical history is little bet-
. ter than a continued series of such, must sutely convince
every impartial inquirer,. that the ·and·preach•
er.s of Christianity, however a few hono_urable e:x:ceptions
may have from time to time arisen, (as never was the so-
ciety so bad, but that there Illllflt have been some among '
them not quite so bad as the worst), yet generally they
were men who had no respect foitruth, and no governing
principle but a wicked esprit du corps, which determined
them a outrance to impose on the credulity and.ignQ-
rance of the vulgar.
That there is no ii.fference between the Popisli. hgends' and tM
. ' cafU!Tlical .9.cts of ike J.lpostles. .
· The great 'difficulty is to draw the line between eccle-
siasticalhisfory, that which is truly apostolical; since
it is hardly pt>ssible to fix on a legend so egregiously ab-
surd, .or a pretended miracle so monstrously ridiculous,
in all that is absurd and ridiculous in Popish supersti-
tion, .but that its original type and first draft·shall be
to be found ·even in our own· canonical and •inspired
Scriptures. · · · · ·
After haVing laughed .at St. Dunf!tan's taking the Devil
by the nose with a pair of red-,hqt tongs, in the golden
legend, W'e .are made to laugh on the other side of the
mouth, or rather .to tremble .. and adore, the acoount,
which nobody may doubt, of the fate of the seven sons of
Sceva the J:ew, in conflict with wltom it was the Devil
W'ho proved victorious, and them, and
against t/lem, so that they fled out oftiUJiho.use wounded.
Nor was the wonder-working name of" Jesus, whom Paul
preached," sufficient to lay him; for, said the .Devil,
I knotll, .and .Paull kno'UI, but who are yoo?"-Aots xix'. 15. .
In Iike.manne,r we Protestants, who despise all the sto-
.ries of' miracles wrought by old rags, rotten bones, ruSty
nails, pocket-handkerchiefs, and aprons; that stand on no
better authority than those monkish taleB"'Which Olll' church
has rejected; do. bow with implicit fhlth to the miracles
wrought by relics, which. stand on the authority of those
monkish tales which our church has -not rejeeted; .and it
is to be or at least not laughed UDder peril of
• Ludner, voL 4, p. 91.
CBIUITI.llf.
being sent 1o jail, that '' G6d wrought tpui4l tniraelu iy1M
1wmd of Paul, so that from his body tM't brought tmto the sick,
.or aprqns, and the diseaau departed from them, and
1M et1il spiritlwtnt 9yt from them."-Acts xix. 1.2.
· Here again is ab. egregious atopism.-How could St.
Paul have aprons&) or what use could Jews have of pocket
'I Are we to .forget that their sleeves and
beards answered all the purpose, and saved washing ? _
We are.at full liberty to have our mirth out at the story
of St. Bartholomew pOBllessing the.faculty of becoming in-
visible, and appearing and disappearing, as the cause of
the gospel required, because that story rests only on the .
1\Uthority or the apostolic history of Abdias, a few pages
further on than our canonical.. Acts of the Apostles has
continued to make extracts from it ; but had it been intro-
duced, as many arguments would have been adduced by
our clergy to justify it, and as great peril of incarcera-
-tion incurred for snu1fing at it, as at precisely the parallel
· story of &. Philip, who, in the canonical part of the book,
is described as riding in the air, a8 picked up by the Spirit
of the Lord in one place, and popped down in another
(Acts 8. 40).
That tw BUCh persons ar the Twewe .llpostlu ezisted.
Thus 1M glorious of the apo.tlu, having glistened
upon the world's darkness like the sparks on a
go out in like manner, leaving n.o more vestige of therr
existence, or ofany effect of the miraculous powers with
which they are believed to haye been invested, than "the
bird'swing on the air, or the pathway of the keel
the waye." No credible history whatever recognizes the
e:tistenc;e of any one of them, or of any one result of all
their stupendous labours and sufferings. The very criterion
miracle itself, the most critical and of all, that
which if not true, leaves not so much as a possibility
that any other should be so-the miracle of the gift of
tor.aguu, ·not only· has no one particle of concurrent eVl·
dence in all the worl<l to make it credible, or even .to
make it conceivable, but absolutely breaks down and gives
way, and is attended by positive demonstration of its
falsehood, even ·in the immediate context of the legend
which relates it. In sequenee, on the passage which in-
structs us that the assembled apostles were by the
immediate power of God " enabled to speak all the lan-
guages of the earth in a moment of time," and thus
Dig,tizcd by Google
17, THE .&RGORlft' OJ' IIA.'l'YilDOk.
unqueStionably mWit have been rendered the most OO'Il·
summate alld accomplished scholars ·that ever lived, we
find Peter and John, the .most distingUished of them, i,n
the next scene,.brought before the magistrates as notorious
tricksters and cheats, and then and there availi,ng them- '
·selv«::s of their supernatural gift of eloquence to no better
effect, than to show that they 111ere ignoraRt
men, (Acts iv. 18}. · . · ·
The :Arabian Nights Entertainments are.more consistent.
Consult the records of. history,; and what has become of
these most that ever e:i:isted,
· if indeed they ever existed? Not only their names
are no·where to be found, but the mighty workS. which
·should have perpetuated names have no records.
The churches which they are·eaid to have founded, have
all shared the fate of Alladin's. castle: the nations which
they have all·relapsed into idolatry ; the-li.gilt
that was to lighten the Gentiles, only served to introduce
the dark ages. · Not only chronology and histoey withhold
· all countenance from tl\e fabulous· adventures of these
fabulous personllges, but geography itself recoils from the
story ; not only were there no such persons as themselves,
and no such persons as the kings and potentates whom
they are said to have baptized and converted, brit no such
countries, cities, a.pd nations as many of those in which
they are said to have achieved their mightiest works. Like
their divine Master, their kingdoms were not ofthis
Where, for ·instance, wM the country of the Magicians,
of the Amazons, of the Acephali, tJ:ie Monoculi, and the
)Salamanders ? Where but in the same latitude with Brob-
dignag and Lilliputa ? ·
CHAPTER . .
THE' :UlOUMENT &F l!UilTYRDOII;
From the seif-evident absurdity of all arguments drawn
from miracles, which could be of avail only to those who
}Vitnessed them, and even to them of rio further avail than
to make them stare and wonder, but to leave them in as
great ignorance as ever as to the 11Jhat then, or what infer-
ence, from an unacoountable factto the truth or falsehood
of an unacco'!].ntable doctrine,, divines have been driven
· upon the dernier of a desperate attempt to conneCt
.
TII,E 01' MUTl'RPOM. 1'76
Cl\'ri$tiaJlity with a of historical evideJ).ce arising
frQm the argument of martyrd11m. . . .
Accordingly, in the latest or at least most popUlar treatise
on the Evidences of Christianity which is now read in our
• universities, and generally appealed to as exhibiting the
whole stress of the cause set in the best light, and shown
to utmost advantage, the whole burthen is laid on ,
these two propositions :-
.First, " That there is satisfactory evidence that many
professing to be original witnesses of the Christian.mira-
cles, passed their lives in labours, dangers, and sufferings,
voluntarily undergone in attestation orthe accounts which
they and solely consequence of their belief
of those accounts ; and that they also submitted, from the
same motives, to'new rules of
. .Second· Propositjon. " That there is NOT satisfactory ev-
that persons pretending to be original witnesses of
any other similar miracles, have acted in the.same manner
in attestation of the accounts they .delivered, and
solely in consequence of their belief of the truth of those
accounts."*
Such are the specific propositions on which the whole
fabric of the evidences of Christianity is raised, by that
great master " of tlwughts tlwt are just, and words th6t are
beaUtiful,"t whose name and authority were urged to
justify the cutting off frooi society of_ one whose·only' of-
fence was, that he availed himself of thoughts quite · as
ju$t, in words as beautiful, leading oJ;Uy to diametrically
opposite conclusions. . · · , .· . ·
Not to quarrel· with the logic of these propositions, nor
waste a moment's indignation on the apparent insult
offered to the acutest sensibilities of our nature, in thus
couching conditions involving the .eternal happiness or
misery of man, in terms whose laxity of purport and in-
definiteness of .sense could intend no other drift than to
evade conclusion, to disappoint solicitude, and to defeat
samination; ·
We apply at once to this whole argument of martyr<Jom,
these two grand conflicting :;_
· Pint, That .sufferings undergone by the first preachers
orChristianity is not the.kind of.evidence which we have
' •·Palej•a Evideileee or·Cbriati&Dity.
t Wo:rda or Sir lamea Scarlett, 'eold to the proeecu&ion or the Autber iD the
Coart or Kins'l Beach, October 24, 182'7; . •
Dig,tizcd 'by Google
i76 THE 0, HAK!YRDOK.
a riglt.t to expect that the good and gracious Father of man·
pnd should have given to a revelation which .he was
pleased to i:nake ; ·
Second, That ·it is absolutely net true, thatthefirst preach-
ers of Christianity did undergo. any: sufferings·wha.teveF in
attestation of the accounts which they deHvered.
In still briefer proposition, the argument of martyrdom
is not true ; and it would be good for nothing, if it were
true.
I. That ·is not the kind of evidence tJJhieh. toe hatle a
· to expect.
Against this first and primordial consider&tion of the
business, a most preposteFous and absurd war of nonsense
and insolence is generally raised, to shelter and protect
the desohi.tion of ·the Christian ·argument.. " Nay, hut
.0 man, wlw art th.ou, that repliest against God 'J What
right have 1M to demand ·that God should give to )].is
revelation just such evidence as we please to think
necessary ?" . ·
'l'o all which sort of language, though disgraeing the
style of authors who have acquired the fame of critics,
scholars, and rational men,·on all other subjects, we have
only to bid observance be awake to the petitio principii, or
entire begging of the question, which it iJ.lvolves. For the1
.who write or preach on the evidences of the Christian reli-
gion, must atleast be supposed to hold out that they
some reasons or argumtnts to offer, which shall induce men
·who before did not believe, to become believers ; or those
who before did in some degree believe, to believe with a
stronger degree of conviction than they otherwise would
(which is a branch of the.saine gen,eral purpose) : and to
acquit themselves in the ·discharge of that duty wl:rlch the
apostolic injunction hath ·bound upon them-i. e. to be
ready alwaya to give an · anstDer to every .man t1tat them
a reason of tlu hope th.Gt is in them, tD#h meekntts and fear••
But .such an answer is a "eto upon all reason, and a .com·
·plete admission of entire inability to give one ; and, in-
stead of indicating any disposition of meekness, is little
short of·an assumption to themselves of. the most un-
qualified infallibility; and· brings theh' logic· into a circle,. .
which all rational men know at once to be downright '
For not only must they. maintainthatthe evidence
• i Pet. iii. ts.
Dig,tizcd by Google
ARGUHKNT OF !77
was therefore proper, because it is such as God has been
pleased to give, but that God has been pleased to give it,
it :. thus assuming to that
very nght wh1eh they unpugn, and exercising that prero-
gative which they hold to be the highest pitch of impiety
when claimed by other persons, or exercised to other ends
than their's. .
And this, their arqumentum in circulo, is spun upon the
pivot of another sophism in logic, the as8umptio ez postfacto.
The propri!'ltY and sufficiency of their evidence would·
never have been dreamed of, if it had not been that such,
and none other, was the best evidence they had to pre-
tend ; and any other evidence whatever that they had
chosen to pretend, they could· just as well have pretended
to be the proper and sufficient .evidence as this.
The impropriety tke argument aa it respects tht cltaracter of
God.
A- moment's conscientious reflection must surely lead
any rational mind to a conviction how essentially immoral
and unfit, and how irrelevant and inconclusive
any such sort of evidence to a divine revelation must be,
and make. the veey most of it, and concede the very
utmost in its favour. Is it in the compass of invention to ·
conceive any thing more ,UNWORTHY OF Gon ? more dis-
paraging and subversive Of all respectful .and honourable
apprehensions, which, whosoever that there u
a God at all, ought to entertain and cultivate in his mind ?
Or was there ever in the world a conceivable worse ex-
ample of injustice and cruelty, than that involved in the
supposition of the Almighty Governor of the universe
choosing out his best and most accepted servants to send
them on a message, the faithful delivery of which should
bring on them the most horrible sufferings, and most cruel
deaths ? What else is a Moloch ? or Belial ? What other
notion can we have o{a demon'? What dye of grimmer
bla&mess can be added to· that of your conceit,
whom you have described as dealing thus with those who
:love and serve him best : whom you pourtray as a tyrant,
whose commissions are fatal to those who hold them, who
pays his.best·servants with bloody whose
sles of peace are borne on vulture's wmgs, whose chan.-
ties are'administered in works of·destruction, whose ten-
der mercies are cruel·? ,
And what relevanoy, pray, after all, between the suft'er-
!5
J18 'tHE ARGUMENT OF liUR'l'YRD811.
ings which any set of persons may voluntarily tmdergo,
and the truth or falsehood ofany doctrines they may have
nuiintained ? What consequence or connection between
the endurance of punishment, and the utterance of truth,
unless we htive some means of·being assured that it was
knpossiple that any body should have been punished for
uttering falsehood, and 80 outrage all notions of a.moral
of the universe ?
· Do we, then, hold a rev.elation from God to be, in the
nature of things, ab1:10lutely impossible ?-We answer, NO!
Then, by what other possible means than those ofmira-
cles, and the sufferings of those who were .the immediate
channels of the divine communication, can we suppose
the revelation to be conveyed ? " They shqU no fiiOt1l uach
man hiB neighbour, saying, Know the Lord ! for they •hal!
all knoto him, from lht lea8t to tM 8"UJJUt ; for 1M whok eorfA
1kallbe ji.llecl tllilh the of the glory of the Lord, a. t1ae
tMkrl the sea."-Isaiah. ' .
A person who had sincerely persuaded himself of the
divine authority of whatever purports to have been posi-
tively commanded or forbidden by Christ, would never be
seen to darken the doors of either ehureh or chapel.-
" Thou 1halt not be as the hypocrites art : But thou, when thou
prayut, .enter into thy ·closet, and when thou hast shvl thy door,
pray to thy fatlier which is in lllCret." What is the act, then,
of attending public worship, but an act ofpublic hypocrisy ?
And.whose authority is it, that they respect, who fty in the
teeth of 80 an inhibition ? · · ·
But this would spoil religion as a trade ; therefore,
like Christ's professed indifference to the observation of
the Sabbath,• and his most solemn forbiddance of oath-
t.aking,t it becomes a dead letter, whieh every body reads,
but nobody respects. . . . ·
TM of the. argument a1 il ruptcfl. the of
.ll(an. · .
With .retpeet to the QhM-acter of man, know!ng and
feeling as we do, in every sentimentof ourminds, in every
impression on our senses, our liability: both to false im·
prellions and erroneous 'ideas, and that these are compe- '
teBt to urge men to aet and suffer to the same extent aa
11le JllOit acourate impreaaiODB, and the most mathelllatioal
·conclusions ; that is, that men are,· have been in all
• lfaU.:di. 8. t IIIU. •• 14.
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
Taa d8VIIIIl'ft' o• MAaTJ'JlDOJI, J'Jt
ages, fMt ready to become martyJ:S for falsehood ae for
truth : We aek,
How could eufferi., either voluntarily-or involuntarily
ineuned; mpply any sort of attestation to a doctrine ?
If such sufferings be voluntarily incurred, when they
might as well have been avoided, what is to excuse .such
wanton and useless suicide ?
Surely the act of euicide is precisely the same, if a man
rushes on a ·drawn sword, which he sees held in another
·· man's hand, ae if he held the sword himself.-And, ·
.
What can any man have to expect that other men
should beheve him affinning to a fact upon the testimony
of lilil senses, when they see him setting the of
his senses at defiance, and not' himself subscribing to the
argument of pain and smarting ? ·
If such iufferings were involuntary, where could be the
merit, or what proof of the sincerity of the could
they involve ?· . '
Ifsuch aufferings, in tlu natural course of were in-
evitable upon the conduct which the first pre,achers of the
Gospel adopfed, and God be believed to be the author and
director.of tlu natural coune of things, what stronger proof
could God himself be conceived to give us that tMt con-
duct waa wrong, and that iAat religion, which.could onl;y
be by such conduct, was false ? · .
Nor sliould we overlook the palpable injtistice of the
argument built upon the long ago, and probably $Teatly ex· ·
aggerated suffenngs, of the martyrs of Christianity, but
which takes no account of the sincerity and self-denial of
its conscientious victims ; that sympathizes, like in
dramatic griefs, but forgets its own Oakham; weeps for
the scratched finger of any of its own faction, but is at
ease in an aceldalna of persecuted infidels.
Extraordinary fortitude, exhibited under great and cruel
could onlr be considered as involving an argu-
ment for the truth of the Chrit!tian religion, on the suppo-
sition that such fortitude wae properly and strictly miracv-
lott,l ; a suppositipn directly outraging all notions of either
goodness or justice in the Deity who should choose to
:work a sanguinary and horrible miracle, when he
at once have better accomplished the same effect by better
means.-And, ·
Lastly, in the ease of Judas Iscariot, as given in the·
Acts of the Apo,stles, we have the judgment of·the whole
Dig•tizcd by Google
•
180 THE ABOUXENT or M.lBT'faDOK.
apostolic college on the. side of our proposition ;• the hor-
rible and cruel death of the traitor tMrt specifically
adduced as an argument.of the divine dlspleasure against
him ; thereby demonstrating that, in the JUdgment of the
apostles theniselves, the coming to a bad end should be
read to the diametrically opposite inference of that of
martyrdom ; that we shouldrather conclude, that " sobad
a death argues a monstrous life;" and that the goo<! and
gracious Father of mankind would never have suffered
those who had· sought to please him, or preached a doc-
trine that was agreeable to him, to have had any occasion
to suffer for it.
II. Thol tM argunaent ofmartyrdom it absoltlltly not tf.'Ut,
Is demonstrable, distinctively, on· these four grounds:
1st, That it is contrary to nature ; 2nd, That it is contrary
to the generaltenor of the New Testament itself; 34, That
it is contrary to the evidence of history ; 4th, That it is
positively denied by the very authorities on who8e ·testi-
mony alone it could be pretended. · .
. 1st.. It i8 contrary to nature.-Credulity and easiness of
belief are the essential characteristics of man, and espe-
cia11y of ignorant man. · ·
There was nothing, an,d could have been nothing in the
and conduct of such men as we mtist suppose the
first preachers of Christianity to have been, but mt1St have
been calculated to win all men's hearts, and have made
them the great objects of favour, .admiration, love, and
confidence. It is as impoeeible but that they must have
f()und friends, as it is impossible that Christianity could
have been propagated, if they had not done so. We
might ae well believe in St. Augustin's men and women
without heads, as imagine that there were ever men; or
whole races of men, without the natural affections and
rational faculties that constitute men ; or that, being such,
they should be insensible of the virttte, goodness, wisdom,
and miraculoul gifts of the first preachers of the purest and
best doctrine that ever was in the world, or have suffered
such men to undergo any sort of wrong or oppression
whatever. It outrages probability; it is unnatural; it is
impossible ; it is inconceivable ;.it is the sheer end of all
discourse of reason.
.• or00111118 makiJig the uiamption, that there were 111Ch peno111, and tba& lllCb
were their ac11 and arpmmlj gratia.
Dig,tizcd by Google
ARGUMENT OF MARTYRDOM. !81
. !nd. It is contrary to the ttnor of tkt New Tutament
imlf; in that the Gospel of St. Luke is addressed to the
most excellent Theophilus, a person of rank and distinc·
tion' suffi.ciept to prove that the Gospel, at the time of
writing enjoyed the patronage of the great : in that
Christ, by express precept, instructs his disciples, · that if
they should be persecuted tn one city they should fly to aoother, ·
(Matt. x. 23) ; a precept implying, not only that persecu·
tion would never be general,; but authorizing and Com-
manding them not to suffer themselves to· be persecuted,
but to get out of the way of it, even by having recourse to -
a lit or a shirk, when occasion should call for it : which is
necessarily included in every act of absconding or flight.
Jesus Christ, by palpable example, shows that he would
rather have seen the whole· world perish· than he would
have been crucified, if he could by·any means, fair or foul,
have made his escape ; and submitted at last to drink the
cup only because it was impossible that it should pass from
him.
The Apostle Peter asks of the Christians to whom his
epistles are addressed, " Who is he that tDiU harm you, if ye
bt follot#ers of that which is good ?"• a sort of challenge which
could not have been given if the Christians ever had been
called to suffer on account of their religion merely, or
were in any state of liability to suffer on that account.
The Apostle Paul, in the last authentic account of him,
is described as existing in a state of perfect security and
independence in Rome, under the govel,"nment of Nero
himself, and is so far from charging even that worst of all
the Roman emperors with spirit of religious intoler-.
ance, that he speaks of him as the minimr of GJd, not a ter-
ror to good tDorlu, bvt to the ml ;t a sort of language and
doctrine that leaves us no alternative, but that either. the
whole of ecclesiastical history is a tissue of falsehood, or
the New Testament is no.better. .
.·Sd. ll is contrary to the widence of history.-Such aban-
doned unprincipled wretches as the state justly pun·
ished for their crimes, would gladly be thought martyrs
·rather th,nn felons ; they would aeeuse their judges-as
what felons would not-of partiality, and of condemning
them for being Christians, especially as there were never
wanting a number of persons sufficiently stupid ud
wicked to think that Christianity itself gave them a right
• 1 Pe&er iii. 18. · t Romuuiii. 1.
J6•
Dig•tizcd by Google
THE ARGUMENT OF MARTYRDOM.
and privilege to commit crimes with impunity (a that
wants not countenance in the New Testament 1tselP) ;
and these persons, \vhen suffering the of their
deeds, would not fail to claim and receive tlre credit o.f
being martyrs. The offensive conduct of such persons
could not have failed to have occasioned innumerable
mistakes, in which the innocent may have suffered with
the guilty, and the Pagans may, upon the stimulus of in-
tense provocation, have taken sometimes severe and ex-
cessive revenge on the insults put on their religion. A
Jeffries, a Bonnor, or a city of LondOfl. .Recortkr,t might
occasionally have sat on a Pagan bench, but. it does not
appear that the Roman senate or magistracy, generally,
ever lent countenance to any public measures o( religious
persecution. The code of Roman laws not a
vestige of any ·statute. that..was ever enacted against
Christians. Nerva, Trajan·, Adrian, the Antoniries, and
Julian, were men of the nicest sense of honour, and of so
strict and passionate an attachment to the principle of
justice, that it is-rather conceivable that they would have
suffered puirtyrdom themselve§ than have put it into the
power of their worst enemy to attaint the purity of their
administration. " If a man were called to fix the period
in the history of the world during which the condition of.
the human race was'most happy he would
'without hesitation name thatwhich elapsed from the_ death
of Domitian to the accession of Coinmodus."t · .
That period embraces eighty-fo_ur years, from the 96th
of the Christian era to the 180th, during which reigned
Nerva, Trajan, Adrian, Antoninus Pius, and Antoninus
the Philosopher.. Nor can anr age or any countey in the
world boast of a succession o reigning prfuces of equal
virtue, wisdom, and humanity. The best of our most reli-
gious and gracious kings that ever swayed the sceptre over'
a Christian people, was never worthy to be compared with
any one of these successively excellent sovereigns. " The
edicts of Adrian and Antoninus Pius expressly declared,
that the voice of the multitude should never be admitted
.; as legal evidence to convict or to punish the unfortunate
•. " The blood of1811118 Christ cleanseth f'rom all sin." (1 Jobn i. Jl oar
IIJlliskteoiiiDellllcommendeth the righteo11811B of God." (Rom. iii.
t little in callin,r for .iudPent on the •athor, pleaded Cor lbe
expedieocy of 'fJDlent ana corporeal pnnishmeot, Oil Feb. 7. 1828.
t Gibbon•a Decline aDd Fall of tJie'RoDllll Empire, YDL 1, p. 126.
THE AaGVMENT OF MARTrRDGM. !8S
persons who. embraced the enthusiasm of the Chris-
"*
WAllSo
What extraordinary motive, wh.at new and never before'
heard of spring of human action can have been brought
into play, to set men all at once the very
of who had never any other that ever
was in the world ; and to induce those unquestionably wise
and good men, whose justice and generosity had never
been impeached till then, just then to lay aside their jus-
tice and generosity, to be Wise ·and good men no longer,
but to be con,erted into persecutors, and to become
enemies to the death of the meek and innocent follow-
ers of an offenceless faith ? Surely here is problem with-
out solution, effeCt without cause, and . improbability
without evidence. To believe that the first preachers of
Christianity, or their iltlmediate successors, were the vic-
tims of persecution, we must shut out the evidence of all
other histories but such as they themselves put into our
hands, and determine to believenot only without evidence,
but in direct contradiction to it. Nor even will such a
degree of obstinacy make sure work for our persuasion
that the Christians generally testified their sincerity by
martyrdom, since, ·
4th. It is positively denied by the "er"Y authtmities on t11hose testi-
mony alOr&e it could be pretended.-" In the time of Tertullian
and Clemens of Alexandria, the glory of martyrdom, with
the universal consent of the .Christian community, was
confined to the singularly distinguished personages St. Pe-
ter, St. Paul, and St. James.?'t - ·
St. is said .to have beeq. murdered by St. Paul,
and.therefore his death ought not to be laid to the charge
of Pagan persecution.
The martyrdom of St. Peter.and St. Paul is contrary to
the indications of the New Testament itself, and rests on
no better credit than that of the Apostolic history of Ab-
dias, W
·hich the church has as apocryphal.
. " Dionysius, the friend of Origen, reckons in the im-
mense city of Alexandria, and under the rigorous persecu-
tion of Decius, only ten men, and seven women, who suf-
fered forthe profession ofthe Christian name ;" and Origen
himself declares, in the most express terms, that the num-
ber of martyrs was very inconsiderable. ·
·• Gibb9D, voL 2, p.·422. t lbid1 vol. 2, p..42'7.
Dig,tizcd by Google
of MGrlyrf)ltlgy.
The ROman legends tell of ten thousand Christian sol-
. diers who were crucified in one da.y by order of the Em-
• ' peror Trajan, or Adrian, on Mount Ararat ; the strength
of no better authority than which, our chur.
ch of England
daily repeats the.palpable and egregious falsehood, " The
noble army of martyrs praise thee !" .The fact itself is of such
a nature, even in the judgment ofsincere Christians,
be pronounced not only not true, but utterly, physically
and morally, impossible to be true.
And of this character, and no better, are all the stories
l)f martyrdom by lgnatius, and others,
under the humane and JUSt TraJan, and the martyrdoms of
Sanctus, Maturus, Pothinus, Ponticus, Attalus, :Blandina,
and aJ.l the martyrs of ·Vienna and Lyons, who, if we will
believe Eusebius, Addison, and, I blush to say, Lardner,
suffered under the administration of Antoninus Verus,
were fryed to death in red hot iron chairs, and ·suffered
such torments, as to be sure it was physically impossible
that they should have suffered.
"The holy martyrs," says the veracious historian," un-
derwent such torments as are above all description." How-
e:ver he makes attempt to describe them, and tells us,
that "the tormenters who were employed to torment (the
young lady) :Blandina, tortured her all manner of ways
from morning till evening, relieving each other by turns,
till they themselves feeble and faint with exertion,
and acknowledged themselves overQOme, there being
·nothing more that they could do to her; and they won-
dered.that she had any breath left, her whole body.having
.been tortured and mangled ; and they declared, that any
one torture used by them was sufficient to deprive 'her of
life; much more. so many and so great: :But that blessed
woman renewed her it was a refreshmentand
ease to her ; and though her body tt1as tome to piecu,
yet by pronouncing the words, 'I am a Christian, neither
have we committed any evil,' she wasimmediately recrUJUl
and refreshed, and felt no pain. after the executioners
had given up the business of attemptingto kill her, which
they were by no means able to she was hung
up in chains, dangling within the reach of wild beasts.
And this, no doubt, was so done by the ordinance of God,
that she, hanging in the form of a cross, might, by her in-
cessant prayers, procure cheerfulness of mind the suf·
Dig,tizcd by Google
.A·
RGUMEl'fT 01' IIU.RTYRDOtf. • !85
fering sairita. After she had hung thus a loug while, and
the wild· beasts had not ventured to touch her, she was
taken down and cast into prison, to be reserved for further
tonnents ; where she . still continued preaching and en-
couraging her fellow Christians, rejoicing and triumphlng
in all that she -had gone through) as if she ·had only been
invited to a wedding dinner : whel'eupon they broiled her
whole body in a ; which she not at all regarding,
they took; her out and wrapt her,.in·a net, and cast her into
a mad bull, who foamed and tossed her upon his horns to
and fro, yet had she no feeling of in all these things,
her mind being wholly engaged in conference with Christ.
So that at length, when rio more could be done unto her,
she was beheaded, the Pagans themselves confessing, that
never any woman was heard of. among them to have suf-
fered so many and so great torments."•
As for Sanctus·, deacon of Vienna, ·when there was
nothing more that they could do to him, " they clapped red
hot plates of brass up<)n the most tender parts of his body,
which fryed, seared, and scorched him ali' over, yet re-
mained he immoveable and undaunted, being cooled,
refreshed, and·strengthened with heavenly dews of the
water of life gushing from' tlu tDOinb of Christ ;t his body
being aH over wound and scar, cop.tracted and drawn tO-
gether, having lost the external shape of a man. In whom
Christ suffering, performed great wonders : for when those
wicked men again to torture him, supposing that if
they should make use of the same tortures, while his body
was swollen, and his wounds inflamed, they should master
hbn, or that he rWOU}d die, not·only np sUch thing happen•
ed, but, beyond all expectation; by those latter tor-
ments his body got relief from all the disease it had con-
tracted by what he had before suffered;·he recovered the
use of hislimbs which he had lost :; he got rid of his pains ;
so .that,,through the grace of Chrirst, the second torture
that they put him to, proved to be a remedy and.a cure to
him, instead of a punishment."t
• Quoted from EIUiebius by Lardner, vol. 4, p. 88, and revised from the
Jillby the author. -Notwitbsta.Dding the gravity of Lardner and Addison on this
object, I mightily Sllllp8Ct that this Lady Blaodina Willi nothing elee than a
Tuesday pancake ;-a sort of_Sir Jobo Barleycorn. Sbe would not be the tim
diviDe 811Jferer wbo ba.d been· made of a bit of dougb.-Conipare with pp. 68, and
tbis DIEGEeJe•
. t The u .omb of Cltmt: so Dr. Hanmer renders it. It ill liot tbe o:uly Jl'l8-
age which sei'Vtlll to render the sex of Christ eqmvociiJ. . ·
:t Lardner's translation, 1111 far 1111 it ilt followed, vol. 4, p. 87 ; the rea& oricinal,
&om Eueb. Eecl. c. l. · '
Dig,tizcd by Coogle
te6 ftiE ARGU.JU'ft' O'r IU.&'l't&DOII.
· Such bl a fair specimen' of ecelesiutieal history, atul
such the,trash which must be held to be credible, if the
argument of martyrdom be so. . . . · ·
Against .such evidence, whieh inay well be considered aa
setting oomment at defilUlce, we . every and then
stumble on adnlissions of the Christian Fathers therneelves
that entirely the P&gan magistracy, not only
from such charges as might be inferred from·any suppose-
able ground or outline of original truth in such narra,tiona
as these, but which clear them from all suspicion ofever
having countenanced ·persecution on the SQOre of religion,
in any whatever. Tertulliau challenges the Roman
·Senate to fiame him one of their emperors, on whole reign
they themselves had not ·set a stigma, who had ever per-
secuted·the Christians; and the modest and rational Me-
lito, bishop of Sardis., in applying for redret!S {which was
instantly granted) to Marcus Antoninus from some griev-
ances which religious people at that. time had to 1
complain of, expressly states, tbat a aimilar of com-
plaint had ntt1er existed, · . ·
· .Even if the evidence of the reality of ma.rtYfdoma in-
curred for the·conscientious maintenance of the Christian I
faith in· former times, were a more than it
is {which it could easily be), or -more than is pretended
(which it could AOt easily be) it surely could not avail
against the evidence of out own ablolute experience, that
the'merit of this argument in times; stands altogether
and exclusively 'on the side of infidelity. are the
persecutors but Christians themsel-ves. None $.l"e the Tie-
time of persecution, or liable to be so, but the conscien-
tious and honourable opponents of Christianity. It is the
·deniers and impugners of' revelation,.who alone give e'ri-
dence of sineere conviction in the. voluntary
of station and a1Buence, and in the endurance of the moet
cruel and trying sufferingS. It is our own times that haTe
witnessed the virtue that has preferred the cell of solitary
confinement, and the fate of felons and culprits'with an
approving conscience, to the professorial chair, the reo-
tor's mansion, or the prebendal stall, that might have been
held as the tDagu of iniquity. · - ·
They are Christians, and of Christians the and
most ostentatious professors of Christianit,, who alone
discover the dispositions and tempers of persecutors, lUld
are, of all persecutorsi the most. implacable, most cruel,
most inexorable.-Whi e those who are most conspicuous
Digitized by Google
TBa .U'OITOLIC
in their professions of deprecating persecution, and who
u lament that ever the arm of the law should be c.alled in
to vindicate their cause," deprecate .and lament it avow-
edly on no other than that of their fear that it
should render its VIctims .objects of a pity and sympathy
of which themselves are incapable.-In their own rigltl
phrase, they fear lest persecution should "g.o ntGt
lo plDu tlu martyr'• crotDn tm th.t loalh.Bome hydra of infultlity ;"
that is, they are not sorry (or the sufferer, but they are
sorry that any body else should be sorry for him. They
would not the poor victim a single .pang, nor take a ·
knot out of the lash that is laid on him, nqr whisper a
comfortable syllable in his ear, nor reach a cup of water.to
his lip, nor wipe away a tear from his cheek, nor soothe
hia fainting· spirit with a sigh ;-but they are sorry for the
disturbance of the welkin-they begrudge him pity
and eomp888ion due to his sorrows. If some way could be
invented to do the bl18iness wjthout a noise; it seems, 'for
all their it be ·very well done.
. One might fill libranes with works of Christie.P divines
in proteet against the principle of persecution-one act of
any Christian divine whatever, in accordance with the
litteerity of such a protest, would be one more than the
world has ever heard of. Never did the sun see a Chris-
tian hand -drawn out of the boeom to prevent persecution)
to resist its violence, to .,gy tO it uhat.tlout thou .? or tore-
.dress the wrong that it·had done.-Of what, then are such
protests of the foulest,·the grouest hypocrily ;
-hypocrisy, ·than which imagination oan conceive no
greater....... James, ii. 15, 16.
The demonatratioiUI of.Euclid, therefore, are not more
mathematically complete than the ratiocinative certainty
that the whole ·&IJUDlent of martyrdom, upon which the
lllOit popular treatia.,a on the evidence& of the Christian
religion are founded, iaaa false as Qod il true•
. _.,_
CHAPTER XL•
.THE APOSTOLIC FA.THERI.
THE ./lpoflolic Fatlur•, is the honourable distinction
&o those orll&odoz of the Christian religion, who
are believed to have lived and written at aome time within
Dig,tizcd by Google
TBE APOSTOLIC I'J.TBEBI•
the firet hundred years, so as to stand within a oonceivable
probability of having seen or ·c-onversed with some or
other of the twelve and to have received their
doctrine thus immediately from the fountain heads.
There are upwards of seventy.claitnants of this honour,
exclusive of such.as the pseudo Linus, and Abdias, bishop
of Babylon, who pretends to have seen Christ
though no such person, no.such bishop, and such bish-
opric ever existed. The majority .of theae are mere
imaginacy names of imaginary persons, whose various.ac-
tionf!! and sufferings arealtogether the creation ofromance•.
The historians of the first three of 'Christianity
have so great a licence in this way, as that no one
alleged faGt standing on their testimony can be said to
have even a degree of evidence. The most can-
did and learned even of Christian·inquirers, have admitted,
that antiquity. is most deficient just e:x:actly where it is
most important ; that there is .absolutely nothing known
of the church history in those .times on a rational
man could place any reliance ; and that the epocha when
Christian truth first dawned upon the world, is appropri-
ately designated as the.JJ.ge of Fab(e.* ·
The title of Apostolic Fathers, is given only to the five
individuals, St. Barnabas, St. Clement, St. Hermas, St.
Ignatius, and St. Polycarp, of whom the three former have
honourable mention in the New !festament; the two lat•
ter are believed to have suffered martyrdom, and each i.e
supposed to be the author of the respective which
have come down to us under their names, which, notwith-
standing, the church has seen reason-to .take for no better
than they forgeries. Had.they, how-
ever, been retained in the canon pf sacred Scripture, we
should have had folios ofevidence in demonstration oftheir
authenticity ; and withal the demonstration (which all .
re-
ligionists appeal to whenever they-can) of penalties, fines,
imprisonment, and infinite persecution, on all who had On·
derstanding and integrity to treat them with the contempt
ettery thing of the kind merits;
ST. BA.B.NABA.s-.8ish.op of .M'tLJn, .
Was a Levite ofthe country of Cyprus, andoneofthoee
Christians who, having land, sold it, and brought the
. • Reram gestarum fides e:rinde 'pviter laboraverit nee orbil temrum tiDialll
ted et Dei ecclesia de temporib•aais mysticia merito Fell• .BWAop
of Ozfor4.
Dig,tizcd by Google
\
TBa ArOJTOLIO I'ATBaas.
money and laid it at the apostles' feet ; whereupon they
changed his name from Joses into Barnabas, wb.ich signi-
. ies tk 10ft ofcomolation. Sothat he literally bought his apos-
tleship ; and having gratified the avarice of the holy con-
clave, their historian bears him the honourable testimony,
that he tMB a f!(Jtttl man, full of the Holy Ghost 11nd of faith.
(Acts xi. 24.) St. Clement of has often quoted
the epistle that goet under his name as the composition of
an inspired apostle. In the catalogue of i8
.Ud, " Barnabas was a minister of the word together with
:... ; he preached Christ first at Rome, and was after-
cis made bishop of Milan :" and in the translator's
face to that catalogue, it is asserted, on I know not what
authority, that a rope tied about his neck,
and was therewith pulled.to the·stake and burned. We
have no account of any·miracles which Barnabas wrought
in his lifetime, which seems rather hard dealing with him
on the part oft.he apOstolic firm, since he had paid a very.
luuMisome to be admitted into full partner-
ship. The ameruk lwuurabl.e was made to his relics in af.
ter ; they became wonderfully efficacious in healing
all manner of diseases; .His dead body had the distin-
guished honour o£ giving a certificate to the genuineneee
of the gospel of St. Matthew, which was found lying upon
his breast, written in his own hand, when his body was
dug up in the island of Cyprus, so late as the year of our
Lord and Saviour Jes08 Christ, 489 ;• eo rapidly was the
Cluistian faith,·and consequently the efficacy of the relice
d the extending. · · . ·
"Any Ol)e :whoreads the Epistle of Barnabas·with but a
aaall..degree of.attention,'' say-s Dr. Lardner, "will per-
ceive in it many Paulinephrasesandreasonings.· To give
the character of the author of it, in one word, he resem- ·
bles.St. Paw, as his fellow labourer, without copying him."
Paley quotes only the single passage from the apocry-
phal epistle, which, he says, is probably genuine, ascribe4
tQ the apostle Barnabas, containing the words, "FinallJ
teaching the of Israel, and doing .many
and signs among them; he (Christ) preached to them, an<
showea the exceeding great love which he bare towarda
1Jlem.."t
. • Sipbertum Gembllle8JWMD lid .a.. c. 489, itemque aJioll lep8 Zeaoail im-
perio in iusala Cypro repertum 8. Bamabe lllllpllll, «..,.pectore 8Jlll• ETup-
ilm 8. Madt* tf•orf041'0" ..-ov tom. 1, p. 1141. .
t Paley'llhW. WI. 1,p. 119. , . ·
16
o;9; ized byGoogle
,
190 TB& APOITOLIC PAT'IIItRS.
To so clear and distinct atestimony to Christ and his
miracles, I subjoin an equally sublime specimen of thia
apostle's inspired reasoning, from !rehbishop Wake's
.translation :-
. " Understand therefore, my children, these things more
fully, that Abraham, who was the first that brought in
eireumeision, looking forward in the .spirit to Jesus cruci-
fied, received the mystery of three lttttrl'; for the Scripture
s8ys, that Abraham hundred and eigh-
teen men of his house.. Butwhat, therefore, was the mya-
. tery that was made known unto him ? Mark, first, the
eighteen, and next the three hqndred : for the
ters of ten and eight are I H, and these .denote JUU8; and
because the cross was that whereby we were to find .grace, .
therefore pe adds three hundred, the note of which is T ;
· wherefore, by two letters he signifies Jum, and by the
third, his cross.
" He who has put the . gift of hill doctrine
within us, lm.ows that I never taught to any, one a more
·oortain truth than but I trust that ye are worthy
of it.•
" Consider how God hath joined both the cross and the
water together ; for thus he saith, blessed. are they who
put their trust in the cross, and descend into the water.t
" Jesus Christ is the ·heifer ; the wicked menwho were
to otfer it, were those sinners who.brought him to death.
· " But why were there· three young men to
sprinkle ? Why, to denote Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
And why was the toool put upon a llitk 'I Why, but beoause
the ,kingdom of Jesus Christ ·was founded upon wood.t
Blessed be our Lord, who has given us this wisdom, and
a to understand his secrets."§. .
SAINT CLEKENT, A. D. 96.
Bishop of Rome.
St. Clement is with great confidence considered to be
the individual honourably mentioned by St. Paul in those
words, " htlp tMit tDOmen tohieJ& ltJboured toith me in fM
Oospel, toith ClerMnt allo, and toitl& oth# my felloto labowwt.
vhole tamnel ore in tht boOk of life."II He is ·ordinarily '
• Btmabu'• Calhalio E.-, ia Wake, p. 1'78.
t Ibid. p. 1so. Ubid. p. 1'74.
§Ibid. p.l8t. I PJiL h'. I.
Dig,tizcd by Google j
..
THE APOSTOLIC FATHERS. !91
called ·clemtns·Romanus, as having betm bishopofRome, in
the firstcentury2 to distinguish him fromthe no less·iUus-
trious Clemens..lllexandrinus, who was bishop of Alexandria,
about a h\mdred years after. In the Chronography genel'o
ally attached to Ecclesiastical ·History, his
name is arranged as thtrd in succession of the bi.shops of
Rqm:e from St. Peter, the order standing thus: St. Peter,
St. Linus, St. AnnicetU.s, or Anencletus, St; Clement.•
There is but ancient manuscript of,his writiilgs in ex-
istence :f his first epistle only is held to be
Measureless are the forgeries which Christian p1ety and
conscientiousnes_
s had for ages put upon the world under
his name.·
· It is not Without shrewd reason that the .epistle which
Paley quotes has been rejected from .the place which it
for many ages held in the volume of the New Testament
itself. · · .
The· passage,, however, generally adduced from this
epistle to prove the martyrdom of St. Peter and St. Paul,
is too brief, and too evidently itself taken from some other
authority, to admit of tp.e fact being received on the evi-
dence of this one single sentence, in one solitary manu-
script of an author upon whom so many Christianforgeries
have-been committed·.. -:
_Clement evidently -refers to some existing and generally
received accountS of the martyrdom of St. Peter· and St.
-Paul, ofwhich aecounts his Ppilippian converts must·have
been in possession ere they could be thus loosely and gen-
erally called on to " take them as examplea." .
Of the martyrdom of St. Paul, not.the least account is
·traceable in the New Testament ; but the very reverse of
the probability of such ·a consummation of his history is
indicated in the last allusion to him which the sacred text
contains-·: ".llnd Paul two tflhole year• in hia oom hired
and_ rece-itltd all that came in him, preaching the
kingdom of God, tmd teachinq_ thoae thinga 'lflhich concern lha
Lord Jesus Christ 'lflith all confidence, no man forbidding him."
-Acts xxviii. 81.
This, in Rome-this, under the reign of the tyrant
Nero-this, when the tyrant Nero was not only reigning,
_but in Rome, unquestionably looks much askew
• " had !Jeen fint biahop or Sardi8, aud waa alenruds tnmllated the
more lucrative eee or Rome."-Dorothnu. So early waa the office or a bilbop
. .
t Lardnei', wL 1,p. 290.
Dig,tizcd by Google
!99 TRJt APOITOLIC I'ATHERI.
on the probability of -those horrible stories •or peaceabl1
and quietly conducted Christians being put to such hom-
hie torments, as the interest of those who would.harrow
up our feelings with those stories, requires us to .
Ofthe martyrdom of St. :t;>eter, in like manner, the only
authentic record in the case deposeth not a syllable. The
last mention of his mime in the canonical Acts of the
Apostles informs us, that after having successfully set the
power of tl).e magistrates at defianee, burst out of chains
that "feU off from his hat)ds," and passed through an iron
gate, " opened to him of his oum accord, he dOVta
from Judrea to 'ccuarea, and tlltre abode."• This is the acrip-
tural account of the matter ; and though no story in the
Arabian Nights Entertainments could possibly be more ab-
surd, yet nothing in ecclesiastical history could be more
authentic. ·
On what authority, then, can St. Clement be supposed
to remind the Philippians, that " Peter, by unjust envy,
underwent not one or two, but many sufferings) till at last,
being martyred, he went to the place of glory that waa
due unto him;" and that "Paul, in like manner, at last
suffered· martyrdom by the command of the governors, and
departed out of the world, and went unto his holy place,
being become a most eminent pattetn of patience unto all
ages ?" Surely the modernism of this manner of descrip-
tion must strike almost the dullest apprehension. Here
are neither place, nor time, nor circumstance specified, aa
we should look for them in an historical statement. And
" by the command of the forsooth ! 0 h, yes ;
any governors you please : Bonaparte, or the Great Mo-
gul, I suppose. It is outrageous romance !
The meritof the invention, however,.belongs to other
bands. It will be found, on a critical investigation, that
the source from whence drew, and from which is
derived also. the common belief that the apostles eu1Fered
martyrdom, is the Famous and · Renowned Apostolic
History of Abdias, the first bishop of Babylon, who (if tH
will beliette,) had been ordained immediately by the apos-
tles themselves, and who with his own eyes had seen the
Lord.
These ten books of Abdias, though rejected entirely: b7
the shrewder prudence of modern Christianity, contain the
ofthat broken and irregular jumbleof the real
Journal of some Egyptian missionaries with the fabulous
• Ada ;aii.
Dig,tizcd by Google
THE APOSTOLIC I'ATHEJtS• .
adventutes of imaginary apostles, whichthe church retains
under the name of the A(fts of the Apostles.
Nothing can be more sophistjeal than the whole plan of
rep.soninf:f, and system of .exhibition observed throughout
the Iabor1ous volumes of Lardner. His method is to sift.
the worksof these Fathers for any expression of similar
character or east of thought to ·such as are found in the
New Testament, upon which. similarity he would draw
the, inference that they must,have read the New Testa-
ment and have held it in the lig:ht of a divine revelation ;
while .be passes over the egregious anachronisms, the
gross blunders, and the monstrous absurdities, whiclrshow
those ·writings to be such as any one who sincerely wished
io serve the Christian cause would wish had never ex-
isted. ·As they appear in Lardner's management, the
reader is deceived into an apprehension that they were at
least rupectablt. · . . . ·
St. Paul's 1st.Epistle to the Corinthians is the only
book of the New Testament quoted by Clement. As a
to 1 Cor. xv. 20, "But notD is Christ risen .fro1t1. th.e
and tht fim fruitl of thtm that slept," Dr. Lard-
ner quotes from the 24th chapter of the first of Olement,
the words, " Let \18 consider, beloved, how the Lord does
con.tinually show us that there shall be .a resurrection, of
which he has made.the Lord Jesus Christ the first fruits,
having raised him.from the dead ;" where, in the same
chapter of Clement, follows an argument from IUds, re-
sembling St. Paul's, 1 Cor. xv. 86, 87, 38; but where Dr.
Lardner wholly omits to let us know that Clement's main ·
argument for the resurrectien is t&Ot taken ·from the cele-
brated 15th chapterof St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, but
from the no less celebrated and far more entertaining 15th
book of Ovid's • where is the whole story
of the phrenix regenerating .itself from its own ashes,
and returning every· five hundred years, to die and revive
again in the Dames upon the idolatrous altars of the tem-
·pie of the sun :-an argument which it is utterly impossi-
ble that St.. Clement could have used, had the ·gospels ,:
' then in existence been considered as of higher credibility
than the stories of Ovid, or had he himself believed that
the resurrection of Christ was more probablf6 than the fa-
ble of the phrenix. . . ·
•·HIIIlC tamen ex a1iis daeant primordia rebu; • ' · ··
· Uua e1t reperetII4ICfll8 ipea rweminet, ·
AaJyrii l'bceDicla vocam.· Ooid. Metcnqrpl.lib.:11, liDe 191.
!6•
Dig,tizcd by Google
!94 TH8 .APOSTOLIC .
SAINT HERMAS7 .A• .D. 100.
Bishop of Philipolil,
'M\o is saluted by St. Paul,·in his Epistle to the Romane,
and whose work entitled The Pastor, or Sl&tplurd-, was, in
the time ofEusebius, publicly read in the churches,• and
in the judgment of Origen was held to be diflintly itUpirtd,t
deserves all the respect due to an author who confessee
himself to be a wilful ·asserter I)( known falsehood.
Lardner, who extracts from bis Wl'itipgs, to
prove thereby the cred,ibility of the gospel history ; has the
disingenuineness to conceal, and pass over.entirely unno-
ticed, this characteristic feature ofan authority that servea
him well enough, at the time, to support his gospel credi-
bility, leaving the character of the holy Fathel' out of all
weight in the consideration of his testimony.
I cannot send this apostolic father and his divinely in·
spired book to their eternal rest, in the judgment of my
readers, with greater fairness, than by presenting them
with as a specimen. The annexed is the whole
. of the fourth chapter of the second book, fro111 Archbishop •
Wake's translation :- ·
"1. Moreover, the angel said ttnto me, Love the truth,
and let all the speech be true which proceeds out of
mouth, that the spirit which the Lord given to dwell
in thy flesh, may be found true towards all men, &Jld the
Lord be glorified, who hath given such a spirit unto thee;
" 2. :Because God is true in·all his words, and in him
there is no lie ; . ·
"8. They, therefore, that lie, deny,the Lord, and be-
come robbers of the Lord, not rendering to (lod what they
received from him·: · · ·
" 4. For they received the spirit free from ·tying ; i4
therefore, they make that a liar, they defile what waa com·
mitted to them by tlle Lord, and become deceivers.
" 6. When I heard this, I wept bitterly ; and when the
angel saw me weeping, he said unto me, Why weepeet
thou? · . ·
"6. And I said, Because, sir, I doubt whether I can be
saved. . · .
" "1. He. me, Wheref01;e. · .
" s; I replied, Because, sir, I never spake a true word
in my life, but always lived in dissimulation, a1limibl
• Ludoar, ToLl, P· BOJ• • t Ibid. p. 651.
Dig,tizcd by Google
1
Tllll AP08TOLICJI'ATBI:B.I. !96
a lie fo11 truth to all men, and no man oo.ntradicted me, but
all gave credit to my word ;
" 9. How then can I live, seeing I have done in this
manner? . .
"10. And the ange.lsaid unto me, Thou thinkest -well
and truly ; · . ·
'·' I 1. For thou oughtest, as the servant of God, to have
walked in the truth, and not have joinedanevil conscience
with the spirit of truth., nor have grieved the holy and
true Spirit ofGod. ·
"12. And I replied unto him,· Sir, I never before heark-
ened so diligently unto these things.
" 13. He answered me, .NOUJ thou hearest them, take
care from henceforth,,that even those things which thou
hast formerly for the sake of thy business,
may by thy present truth receive credit ; . ·
" ·14. For those things may·be credited, if, for the
time to com.e, thoa shalt speak the trutl} ; and by so doill8'
thou mayest attain unto life. ·
" 15. And whosoever shall hearken unto this command
and do it, and shall depart from all .lyi:Qg, he shall live
unto God."
.St. Hetmas was evidently a Gnome, or one ofthe know-
ones. " His principle," says Beausobre, " was,·that
f&th was only fit for the rabblement, but that a wise man
should conduct himself by his. knowledge on:Iy."• He
eeems to have escaped martyrdom.
ST. POUVAIU', D.
Bishop of Smyrna.
" It is a thing confessed and lamented by the gravest
divines of the Roman Catholic communion, that the names
and worship of many pretended faints, -who never.had.a real
existence, had been fraudulently imposed upon the
church."t I commend not my suspicions that this Polycarp
may be one of the unreal order, but leave the reader to
give all the respect he can afford to the testimony that
would subdue our reason ·to a belief that a venerable
inoffensive old man, '!'ho, aft_
er having lived in un_
dis-
._Hetme1 ••• GDCNtique. · Sen principe eat qae Ia foi ne convieat q11 au pRp1e ;
qu le eqe • conduit parla..aieuce.-Be.,.,. tom. 2, p. 781. ·
t Dr. Middleton'• Pre&oe to hil Letter C.m Rome, p. 18.
!98 TB& .&POaTOLIC l'.lTBUI.
turbed tranquillity in .his bishopric under a and
Domitian, should have been in the .86th year or
his age, to the cruel death of fire under the g()vernment
of the philosophic .f.lntoninus, and by the magistracy, to be
sure, of that old rascal again, HEROD,• I dare say the
same who slew the childreninBethlehem : for chronology
has nothing to do with matters of faith.. " Then came
there a voice from .heaven," eo rune the sacred story,
" saying, Be'Of good cheer, Polycarp, and play the man."t
" The proconsuldemanded of him, whether he were that
Polycarp, b"'ckoping that ·he should deny it, and adding,
' Consider thine age-swear by the fortwie of Cmear :
repentthee of what is past ;. say, Remove the wicked-:'
But Polycarp exclaimed, ' 0 Lord, remov.e thut Wicked ;'
and, after concluding a mytatical prayer with the usual
doxology at the end of a modern sermon, he commit-
ted to the Sames ; but the 8aming .fire framing itself after
the form of a vault, or1tail of a ship, refused to burn M
good a man ; upol). which a tormentor was ordered to be
fetched, to whom they gave charge to lance hil1t in the
side with a spear,:which; wheo..he had done, such a stream
of blood issued out of his body, that the fire was therewith
quenched.j So that the.whole multitude marvelled such
a pre-eminence to be granted and difference to be shown
between the infidel andthefaithful and elect people ofGod,
of which· nUJDber this Polycarpus was one, a riKbt apostol-
ic and prophetical doctor of our time, bishop of the catho-
lic church of Smyrna.§ But the :Oevil procured that hie
body should not be for many endeavoured and
fully purposed to hold communion with his bleBBed ftesb.
But certain men suggested to Nicetas,.the father of Herod,
and his brother Dalces, to move the proconsul not to give
up his body, lest the Christian!f, as they said, should leave
the crucified, and ·begin to worship Polycarp." It is add-
ed, that he suffer.ed with twelve others who came out of
Philadelphia. · ·
There has been a great deal of the well-known Unita-
Dig,tizcdbyGO gle
TBB APOSTOLIC I'ATBI:BI. J91
rian taet of·red-ucing to ·probability, practised upon our ·re-
cords of the martyrdom of Polrcarp.
The original story unquestionably ran, that upon the
piercing of the martyr's breast, a dove was seen to fly out
of.his body.-See the text of Cotelerius., in his .8postolic
Fathers; and the of Dr. Middleton, in his Jiru !ft.'
quiry. The important fact is exscinded from its place in
Eusebius, for a sufficiently surmiseable purpose. It serv-
ed its turn, while it would serve its t\lrn ; but it has be-
come necessary that the evidences of the Christian relig-
ion should make some sort of peace with reason, and tlie
most entertaining passages of sacred history are consequent-
ly to be sacrificed. Some divines are even for expunging
the improbable parts of the New Testament itself. Alae,
what would they reduce it .to ! ·
·In the teeth of such self-evident proof of a fictious char-
acter, and a fictious martyrdom, Dr. Lardner cooly tell us,
that t:\le relation of the martyrdom of Polycarp, writtenby
the church of Smyrna, of whitlh he was bishop, is an ex-
cellent piece, which may be read with pleasure by the
English reader, in Archbishop Wake's Collection of the·
Lives of the Apostolic Fathers.
The name of Polycarp, his bishopric, his martyrdom,
are entirely unknown to rational or credible history.
ST. IGNATIUS, A. D. 10'7,
Is l>elieved to have been of Antioch in Syria, in
the latter part of the first and beginning of the second
century,• and is believed to have succeeded Euodius, who'
had been the first bishop of that see. The name
occurs in the list of persons saluted by St. Paul, and this '
seems to be the reason of Eusebius for making a bishop
ofhim, though nothing is known of him but the name.
"Beside the bishopric," says Lardner, "the martyrdom
of this good man, is another of those few things
concerninfJ hi.m wh1ch are not contradicted." Basnage,
however, puts the year of Ignatius's death among the
obscurities of chronology. Indeed, those learned men
who have attempted. to fix the time, have no other grounds ·
than the testimony of Malala a barbarian of the sixth
century, and the Acts or Martyrdom of Ignatius, the
genuineness ofwhich Lardner himself admits may be
disputed. He concludes, however, that "as the epistles
• wL 1, p. 811.
Dig,tizcd by Google
S98 THE APOSTOLIC I'ATBEJI:S.
we now have of .lgnatiils ·are allowed to be genuine by a
great number of learned men whose opinion. I think to be
founded upon probable arguments, I now .proceed to quote
them as his."* ·
The:: name of Ignatius only twice mentioned by Ori-
and that in so cur8ory' a manner as to preclude any
J.nference that Origen himself had any certain knowledge
ofhis history. The whole story of his is so
utterly incongruous with time and circunistance, Be to
lead to no other rational conclusion than the probability
that he is altogether the figment of th.
at pious romance in
which ecclesjastical historians have ever delighted-
anothet name to be added to the.long list of saints and
martyrs,.which even the 'tnore intelligent of Roman Cath-
olic writers have been constrained to admit never existed
at all, but were the baseless fabric ofa vision, Jesus Christ
himself being the chief corn_!:lr-stone. The epistles ascrib-
ed to Ignatius are admitted by all parties to' have been
most extensively _altered from the first or earlier drafts of
them ;.but such as they are, even on amomentary reverie
of their supposeable genuineness, they afford no testimo-
ny to any one of the essential facts of the Christian story.
· Written whenever, or by whomsoever we suppOse them
to be, 'tis certain that tJie·writer held out nothing so lit-
tle as the notion that the events on which the Gospel is
founded, had ever really happened. Let his mode ofrea-
soning tell its own story ! This it is. . ·
"IGNATius, which is called Theophorus,f to the church
which is at ·Ephesus in Asia, most deservedly happy,
being blessed through the greatness' and fullness of God
the Father, and predestinated befor.e the world began,
that it should be.always unto .an endciring and unchange-
able glory1 tieing united and chosen through his true
passion, according to· the will of the Father, and Jesus
Christ our. God ; all happiness by Jesus Christ and his
undefiled grace.- . . ·
" There is one physician, both fleshly·and spiritual,
made and not made-God incarnate, true life. in death,
both of Mary and of God7 first passible, then impassible,
even Jesus Christ..· .
" My soul be for yours ; and I the expiatary
. • Lardnj!J''a words', vol. 1. p. 316. · · ·
t TMophortu, i. e. one who cart'U1 God within Ai,._ the ame
ltock u Praile-GotJ Barebone,---uotber edition or Polycarp'a iDtercollal
piaoou.
Dig,tizcdbyGoogle.
'
TR£ .APOITOLIC I'.A'I'HEJl8.
'Offering for your church of so famous thl'OUghout
the world." ' · ·
19th Chapter.-" Now the virginity of Mary, and he
who was born of her, :was kept in secret from the prince
of this world, as.was also the death of our·Lord : three of
the mysteries the most spoken of throughout the world,
yet done in secret by God. How then was our Saviour
manifested to the world ? A star shone in heaven beyond
all 'the other stars, and its light was inexpressible, and its
novelty struck terror into men's minds ; all the rest of the
stars, together with the sun and moon, the chorus to
this star ; but this star sent out its light exceedingly above
them all, and men began to be troubled to think whence
this new star car,ne, so unlike to all the others. Hence
all the power of magic became dissolved, and every bond
of wickedness was destroyed; .men's ignorance !'as taken
away, aJ}d the old kingdom ; ·God himself ap-
pearing m the form of a man, for the renewal of eternal
life. From thence began what God had prepared, from
thenceforth things were disturbed, forasmuch as he de-
signed to abolish death."#
Thus far· from Archbishop. Wake's English translation.
Among the which Lardner extracts are, from his
Epistle to the Philadelphians, the following :-
" Behold, I have heard of 'some who Unless I find
it in the ancients,·I will not believe in the Gospel ; and
I said unto them, It is written : tbe.y aDBwered me, It is
not mentioned. But to me, instead of all ancients, is
Jesus Christ ; and the uninterpolated antiquities are his
cross, and his death and resurrection, and the faith whioh
is by him."t '
Archbishop Wake's Collection, in English, and Mr.
Hone's Apocryphal New supply the .reader
with so many of the epistles of Ignatius as it suited the
purpose of Dr.·Lardner to recognize. We have, however,
a billet-doux of this holy ·father written to the Virgin Mary,
and her answer to it, of equal authenticity to any other
: • H l'llfl'"' ltat o o TOV T(Ua
· 1'VI11''1q•11 ,,. .taov •nqa.r-"'n.,; ovr lfllt't(l.,'l n•; a•O>Il••?
.A.nw •• ot>(lllr.,, 111nq n11na; Tov; (JfntC!"'• acu TO '"'' avrov
. 1'!'1'.. 'I", 1tat Eno11p01' '"llfl"l''" 'I aGt&"OT1Jf at>T011 TIJ le lo&na nana «.nea a,.a
IJAI• lrB111tl'/t''l.lO('Of tyntTO T., 1111'1'11/l•,;,...lt. '1'. 1,
f Jlitovaa ... 1tyon.,. OTt f(JI' 1''1'" TOif tvq•, '" T• ltl<ryyal&ao Otl
ntfn•v• •a• layono; ,.ov at>Toc;, on r•r(lll'1f'l'at, •n••ll•-''11111" pot on ovnqo•uTac
•"'' llf!X!t• Il'tiOtlf X'q•.no; 'l'a a.tcna IJC!X"" o awov.-. T• .l.
lltfnavao beall a t1atare 111111118.
.·.
Dig,tizcd by Google
SOC) 'l'HJI
writings of the 6rat centUry, and in some respects of
superior evidence. . , . . ·
The learned and ingenuous Peter Stallmxus, who had
for some time, through the craft and subtlety of Satan,
been tempted to doubt the genuineness this correspon-
dence, subsequently avows his repentance of that danget·
ous scepticism, and declares that the arguments of that
serious writer, Flavius Dexter, had so convinced his mind,
that he dared no longer hold their claims as •
They are ·as fqllows :,-
The Epiltle of 'the blessed Ignatius, to the lwly Virgin .Mary,
. Mothtr of our Lord Jesus t, - .
"To· the C-hrist-bearing Maria, her .own Ignatius
s,endeth his compliments.
" you ought to comfort and console m-e, who am a new
convert and_ a disciple .of your friend John ; fQr I have
learned things wond-erful to be told concerning your Jesus,
and am astonished at the ; but· I desire from my
very soul to be certified immediately. by yourself, who
wast always familiar and.oonjqined .with him; and priYy
to his secrets, concerning the things I have heard. I have
written to you other epistles also, and.have asked concer·
ning the same things.-Farewell ; and let the new con·
verts who are with me be comforted by thee, and /rotA
thee, and in thee. Amen." · ·
'I'h£ blused JTirgin1s .llnst.oer. _
" To Ignatius, the·beloved fellow disciple,. the humble
nandniaid of Christ Jesus sendeth. her complimenll. t
"The. you have heard and teamed from
John concermng Jesus are true ; belieye them, cleave to
• This diviDe Willi one of the tho118811ds who reuon that there Ollll be no
in believing too mucli, belie(being at any rate the Mce side ; for ifthe'moon after
all should prove to be made ofa greeq c'-, what will become of I
t Christifene Marim, suus Ignatius ! Me neophytum Jobanniaque tui
eordbrtare et co1110lari debueras. De ]- enim tuo mira dietu, et atape-
factus sum ex auditu. A te autem qme'semper ei fWBti familiari.! et conjuncta, e&
IIICI'etorum ejus conscia, desideio ex· animo fieri certior de auditi8. Bcripai tibi
etiam alias, et rogavi de eisdem. Valeas: et neophyti qui· mecum aunt ex te e&
per te, et in te conforteatur. Amen. • · ·
:j: Ipatio delecto condiscipo.lo humilil ancilla Christi Ji.a. De que a Jo-
hannm audistiet didieisti, vera BUnt. ma Cf8Cias : illis inbaeas et Christiuiralil
·-ptm votum llrmiter teneas, et mores et vitam voto conformes. Veniam aatem
C)llll Johanne, te et qui tecum sunt viHre. Sta in fide, etviriliter age, nee te com-
mov.e.t penecutionis atnsteritas led vaJea&· et exsultet spiritu tw. iD Deo Balalari
1110. Amen.-Fabrieti. Cad. .llpac. 1om. 2, p. 841.
•
'I:HI •r.ot'O"IC , 80.'
them-hold fest .the vow .you have made to the Christian-
ity which you hav.e embraced, and conform your ·life·and
manners to that vow ; and I and John will come together
to visit you. · Stand firm in the faith ; aet manfully, nor
let the sharp severity of persecution move you. But may
your soul fare well, and rejoice in God your Saviour.
Am.en.u . · · .
To be sure these precious epistles were not forthcoming
before the faith of the ,church was ripe to receive them ;
being first published at Paris in the year 1495, but they
are none the le$8 genuine on that account ; nor is there a
single argument that can, be urgedagaillstthem but what,
in parity would be fatal to the credibility of
either of our four.gospels. Nothinghinders but that these
jewels might have lain hid under the miraculous keepitig
ofdivine providence, till the proper time was .arrived for
their·being 1»-ought to light and set to shine in the.bright
diadem of.Chri,etian,evidences. And .as for all arguments
drawn from chronology, geopphy, and. other profane
Christians have ever found their best policy to
consist ifl regarding those who adducd them as objects of
contempt, in committing their writings unread to the
ftam.e&, ,and unheard .to ;gaols anq.dungeons.
It may, llowever, be .a. profi.tabte exercise for the ingenuity
of believers to tTy jfthey pan imagine or invent a single
lfentiment of hostility, expression ofscorn, or action ofcru-
eky, justly merited by the rejeetel't!l of the
writ.igp C)Ont$iued in the New Testament, thatwould not,
blltt.e. few back, have seemed with equal justice to be
by Unpugl\W:S ofthe epistles of
:. ..
· ' ·... .-: ·..• , ·, RESULT. . · . ·
Here dJie uti;J)ost,extent of testimony to the facts of
the-ChristiM be derived from the apostolic ;Fath-
is,,.fJ."'m .who can be pretended to have
w«iUen fR ijyed ,at,U,.y time within a hundred years of the
'Wnb:Pi" It i• .llQt possible to produce so, as .
or of expression from any one"
Of divine, maintainer or im-.
JWBU.e!: doctrines, within the first
flrHb.e.;l.iU of.whioQ. we.can conceive to have been used
witnessof the.facts ofl which
io\IR.ded, o;r conteJllporary of. those;who
laad or.who. had believed that those facts
! ::i 1 , .l \6 Q_11
1 •·· ...·. •, ·. ·..., • .: ,
• •. ' ••• l
Dig•tizcd by Google
•
S0S •'J'BI: .UOIT.
OLIC 'P!1'JlE&Ii.1
had really happened, or had so much 88' 'heard'th.at there
were any persons on earth that hadseriomly assertedthat
they had happened. The language of tnese Fathers, who
are accounted orthodox, to say nothing of what we may
hereafter gather from heretical infonnation, is every where
the language of a religious fatuity, childish beyond all
· names of childishness-foolish as folly itself. We should
just as well find evidence and authentication to Magna
Charta in the scribblings of an idiot on a wall, or make
out the particulars of the Punic wars from the records of a
baby-house, a8 discover a trace of testimony to jiMJI in any
documents of the Fathers of the first century. · Itremains
only for those who, after an elapse of eighteen oenturies,
have moulded or new-fangled to themselves a eystem
which they would now have us consider 88 "worthy of
all acceptation," to show how that which had so little evi-
dence at fint, could oome to have more afterwards ; or
how what was never known nor spoken of but as a matter
ofimagination, conceit, and faith, in the first oentul'y,
should come to have a right to be put on the score of his·
torical evidence at any later .period. •
The orthodox Fathers (88 far as doctrine is concerned
with orthodoxy) seem only to be distinguished from the
heretics, in that they occasionally rtse a strength of lan-
guage in their descriptions of allegorioal figments, which
might seem to approximate to the style of history, and I
might make what they only intended as emblems, pasa for
actual circumstances. Yet against such an acceptation of .
such occasional over-drivinge of the allegory, we have 1
to consider that we are in possession, not only of the ar·
gument arisingfrom the natural improbability of such al-
legorical exaggerations when mistaken for facts, and the
total absence of all corroborative and coincidenttestimony
which could by no possibility be conbe'ived to have been
wanting if such facts had ever'happened·; but we have the
andit may be called unanimous oonaent of the
whole body of Christian dissenters (that is, in the church
term, tht hermu), who from the very first, and all.along;
never Ceased to maintain and teach, that oosuch a person
es Jesus Christ·ever eXisted, and that ·a11. the evangelioal
of his miracles, actions, sufferings, birth,dea!d
and. resurrection, were to be understood ·in a ·high .
mrstieai sense, and not, to 'letter 88 face.
that had ·ever happened ; · and· too,- confirmed by acJ.
missions of.thoee who are called orthodox themeelvee, 1a
Dig,tizcd by Google
'
'f)fB Al'OITOLIC ' t'ATBERI. ·
many poeitive·pass¥es.;.,unabated by 80 muoh 88 a single
that can be produced from any one writer within
the first hundred years, which is such as ·he woul4 have
written, 01' would have suited his character to write, had
he believed .that the Gospel had been founded. upon his-
torical fact.· Ancl absolutely the only difference
Paganism and Christianity-Christians (hemselves being
judges-was.the difference between the allegorical fictione
in which the one or the other couched the satne physioal
theorems; as is demonstrated, without need of further
comment, by the juxta-positicm of their respective texts :
Juliua Finlliciua, .
in description of the ' in description of the.
Pagap Myllteries, . . Christian Mysteries,
qvotu Pagan Priut&. , quota Clr.Niian Fatlltn. ·
• But in those funerals and tIn one word, the "'!!ferir&g
lamentations which are annu-. · is nothing else than what
ally celebrated in honour of the Manichmans called the mem-
. their defenders wish to bers of God ; that is to say, the
pretend a physical' reason; they celestial substance, ortbe souls
eaH the seeds of fruit, Osiris, the which have deaeended &om
earth, Isis, the fltltWal I&Mt, beavea.
and because the fruits. The earth is.tbe i.
are npened by the natural heat, heavenly substance -,rhieh Is 10
are collected for the life ofman, the earth, is the BUbstance of the
and are separated from theif Virgin, of .which Jesus. Christ
matriroony to the earth, and was ; the Holy Ghost
801VD again when winter · is the natural heat, by whose
pro,aches, t,bis they _w.ould have virtue the earth conceived liim.;
to be the death .of Osiris; but ·and he becomes an, infant in
when the fruits, 'by 'the· genial being m8.de to pass through the
ring o£ the . earth, · plants,· and from thence 'again
;agam to be generate'd·by·a new' mto heaven.
procreation, this is the finding ·
of ' I · ..· ·
,I. ,
• Sed .in hill f!llleriboa et lactib•,
eorum addere .phy-
lliciam ratiooem. Ftugain semina Oai-
rim dicenlel ealle, Iaim temlm, Typbo-
.11eillcalorem. Et qaU. ui•t•riltle liapJ
eelore, ad homiois.coUigootur., et
a .temB coDSOrtio separantnr, et ro1111111
hyeme : baDe
volant - mortem Ollridis, earn fnl«aa
reddantur : iuveDtionl!lll"viii'O, Cllll1 fru..
1'(1 pitali temrJ ·foi'JIIIDto
DOfl l'llnnll, cmperiot prooreatione geo-
tnri.-De Errore p,IJ/fJtUJran& Re-
lifi--, p. 6. .
\
tEa Wl mot, le Jen Ptullibk, a'eBt
autre cbotle'que lea appel-
loient lea membres de Diea, c'eet a dire
Ia •batance celel&e, ou lea ames qui
· IIODt clesceodoes da ciel.-Beauobre
Hilt/lire de1 Dogmu de .Maniehee,
liv. 8, c. 4, tom. 2, P· 1158.
.La te,rre est Ia Vuqe, Ia 1111bstaMe
celeete, qui:eettlaoe Ia tene, est Ia lllili-
llaoce qui coiDJIOIIB 1- ;
8. Eeprit est l'qeot \*' Ia virtae n
que! Ia terre le coogoit, est l'eafiuda a
le fililaut lee piaatel, 8J deJa
deulle ciel. .
. /
With more than the significancy that· will strike one at
'the first sight, has the learned Montfauoon observed, that
" when once a man begins to use his own judgment in
matters of religion, it is no wonder that he should fre-
-quently be in error, since all thingS are uncertain, when
once we depart from what the has decreed :"•-
that is, in other words, there is no otherreal argument.for
. the tl'\lth of the Christian religion', than " He ·t/aGt belieftti
ftOI IMU bt !"-Mark xvi; li).
' .·
. .'!·
' ..-.- - ' .
. XLI. ·
.. 1BE F:&.TBEJlS ' OJ' THE Si:CONJ) • .
; .. .
.·'
PAi>us; A. D. 116. ·
. , ; . · ··1Jislwp of Hurapolis. .
TnE fir.st -of all the·Fathers of the second century, and
.next immffliately foUowing·on those of the first to whom
.exclusively is applied the disth.
1otion 'tJ106loZical, is .pAPIA&,
maoed by Ca-re ._tthe year 110; aooor.ding to .others, he
Dooriehed about the year 1.15 or ll6. .He is said by soJne
to have been amartyr. · Ir:enreue speaks ofhim asa hearer
of Si. John, and a companion uf Polycarp. .tPapias, how-
ever, in his preface to his five books, entitled .!ln. Ezplic•
tion of the Oracles o
f the .Lof:d; does not hiinself assert that
.he heard or saw any of the ho1yapostles, butonly that he
had, received the @cerning the faith from those
who w,e,ll with them. ." Now we·are to
observe," says h9w. P.apias, who lived at the
same time, mentions a relation he had received
from Philip's daughters. For he relates, that in his time
a dead man was raised to life. He also relates another
miraCle of,Ju8ttis_, surnamed Barsabaa, that he drank dead-
ly poisQn.,. and, by the grace of 'the Lord, ·suffered no
harm." 'f.his .w.dly paison was certainly not arsenic.
Dr. ,Lardner concludes ·his very brief ·aooount of this
Father, with a remark which, from aeypeii. but his, would
•CDBt qa;. e6 at 6dei llli jadicii ubitriode&iat, nihil mi-
mo at -' frequeoter ·aberret : - qajppe. IIIDl C1IID -el ab eocle-
lie, lbdutil -.......Mont/atleOft iAswoleg- Gd.EIINb. CIIIMWf&t t.
o.PaiiMo•. · ·
' t I daim '- be aeued. r-· the \Greek ted ill .aca111 which die
trallllatioa is not ray own. Thill• Dr. Laniaer'.. · . . . . ..
Dig•tizcd by Google
.......
l'.t.TBERS OF TBE SECOND CENTURY• 305
cluiracter of drollery. Imnwdiately a(ter telling
us that" Papias was a man of·sman capacity," he adds,
'' 1:\u:t 1 esteem the testimony he· has given to the Gospels
of St. Matthew and St. Mark, and to the first epistle of
St. Peter and St. John, very valuable ; but if Papias had
bee:n.a wiser man, he had left us a confirmation of many
more books of the ·New Testament:" • ·
It was convenient, however, for Dr. Lardner, and indeed
essentialto the policy of his.whole worlt, entirely to sup-
' press the iqrportant evidence by•which his readers might
.be furnished with the means of estimating the value of this
testimony for .themselves. It is perhaps a very different
impression of the character of this primitive bishop, and of
the value of histestimony; which the would be Jed
to form, upon consideration of the evidence arising from
his writings themselves as preserved to us on the author-
ity of his,admirer and disciple Irenreus, in which he gravely
us; that he had immediately learned from the
geliat St. John himself, that " the Lord taught and said,
that the days shall COipe in which vines shall spring up,
having"ten thousand branches, and in branch
shall be ten thousand amts, and on each arm of a branch
ten thousand tendrils, and on each tendril ten thousand
bunche1h and .on each bunch ten thonsa,nd grapes, and each
grape, onbeing shall yield and twenty gallons
of -y.ririe.j and when any one, of the saints shall ta'.ke hold·of
one of these bunches, another shall cry out, 'I am a better
bunch, take me, andbles's the Lord by me:' "t The same
infinitely silly me4tphors of multiplication by ten theusand,
continued with respect to .gtf}.ins of wheatt applea,
fruits, flowers, and animals beyond all endurance, precisely
after the fashion ot that famous aoritu of the nurseryupon
the Houst that Jack buill, the malt, the rat, the cat, the do'go,
the cow, &.c. : all which Jesus concluded by eaytng, u Ariel
tbese are believable by all believers ; .but Judae
the traitor not beljeving, asked•him, But how thingB
that shall propagate thus be brought to an end ,by ·the
Lord? .· And the Lord answered him and said, Those who
• . I ' • , I '
Dig,tizcd by Google
S06 I'ATHERS 01' 'I'H£ SECOND C£N'I'URY.
shall live in times shall see."• But even this Chris-
tian conceit wants the merit of originality. It is a poor
plagiarism from the form of adulation in which the
eovereigns of India were wont ·to be addressed,. which
was as follows : · ·
'' May the king live for a thousand years, and the queen
Cor a thousand yean lie in his bed ; and may each of those
years consist of a thousand months, and each of those
month!' of a thousand days, and each of those days of a
thousand hours, and each -of those hours be a thousand
years."t ·
Papias, however, notwithstanding his intimacy with the
, Evangelist St. John, and the value of his testimony to the
Gospels of Matthew and Mark, fell into the alight error o(
believing·that no such an event as the crucifixion ever hap-
pened, but that Jesufil Christ lived to be a very old man,
and died in peace ill the bosom of his own family. Papias,
With all his absurdities, had some respect for poetieal· jus-
tice, would have wound us up the scene decently, andgive
us gospel quite as t;rue, though not so bloody. · ·
QUADRATUS, A. D• . 119.
· Buhop. qf .lllhenl.
The testimony on which the .advocates of Christianity
lay the greatest stress, is that of QuADRATUs• . For earli•
ness of tilpe and apparent distinctiveness of attestation,
they halve no other, equal, or second to it. · ·
He is the only writer, up to the period of the time of his
ex,istence, who has spoken of the miracles of our Saviom,
in a sort of language which nlight make it seem that he
believed them himself, and took them to be historical
events. He was endued, says Chronographyt with the
gift of prophecy, and wrote an Apology to the emperor
Adrian. He fs not, however, placed by Lardner in his
proper place as an Apostolic Father, or as next to an Apos-
tolic F.at!ter, .for reasons, which it is for the
.earnest tl).qwrer after truth not to suspect. He .18 of the
same age with Ignatius, and has left us, says Paley, the
following noble testimony.§
. • Et adjeeii (tcil. jesias) Hec·aaeeme.edlbilia 11111t E& 1..a.
iDqait proditore; non credente, et interropate : -Quomodo erao taJ. ..-,. a
Domino pedicienturl Dixiille Dominllm ! Videblmt qui V8llieDt ill illa.
t Vir. clar. Thotnu Hyde de 8chaehiladio et Nerdillldio.-CitGAte FG6ricil ac1
lOcum. . '. .
... t Which I fieqll811dy quoted. It il tbet by Melmodl Jlui:.o, t0 lUI ....
tiiNl ol'Ea161111111Eftlriae, IUid Socratal, -.a.. Jt. 1641. . , , .. ,
._.,•• \'01. 1. p.'SU. _
by Google
PA.fBERI 'OJ'· 'J'B£.>t&COND CEI!fTURT. 3Q'l
-.- The iUtimony of Quadratus.
·" The works of our were always conspicuous,
forthey were real ; both those that were healed, and those
who were raised from the.dead, who were seen, not ·only
when they·were healed or raised, but for a long time after·
wards; not only whilst he dwelled upon thil:! earth, but
also after his departure ; and for a good while after. it;
insomuch that some of them: have reached our times." • ·
- Paley adds not another word on this important ·testi·
.mony. It is only by referring to the authority which he
affects to quote (which is evidently so much more pains
than he ever took himself) that we learn· that this famous
Quadratt.&B was, even to Eusebius himself, a mere hearsay
evidence,-" Among those who were then famous," he
tells us, "was Quadrattis, whom thty 111y,t together with
the daughters of Philip, was endued with the gift of
; and many others also at the same time fiourish·
ed, who obtaining the first step of apostolical succession,
and preaching and sowing the celestial seed of the
dom of heaven throughout the world, filled the barns of
God with increase/' t-" His book," aays Eu.sebius, "is
as yet extant among the Christian brethren, and a copy
thereof rem8ineth with u.s, wherein appear perspicuous
notes of the understanding and tn1e apostolic doctrine of
this man. That. he was one of the ancients,§ may be
gathered from his own words." Then follows the famous
pa8sage which we have given.
· Quadratus, according to such an account of the matter
·
as we may from the History (or
rather ecclesiastical romance, for such it is) of Eusebius,
was fourth bishop of Athens, reckoning St. Paul the first,
Dionysius the- Areopagite the .second, Publius, his
immediate predecessor, who as well a8 himself is said to
have suffered martyrdom, the third.
From a letter of Dionysius bishop of Corinth to the
Athenians, it is indicated that the Athenians had not only
embraced the faith previous io the martyrdom of the pre.
decessor of' Quadratus, but that " they were now in a
•The whole from beginniD& to end ..._:..xocYarot, •· -r.l. '"""'" 'l'n'I'GI
"""' , ......l,.....;o' 'I'& .t. 11111'0/eot 'II'.. 'ta ..... nae'l"• fll(l .,. 01 .:teq..
ft'lll.:tet•'l'l,, 01 attaiJ'I'ant' IIC t'l"((..,., OL OIIIC /1.-IWOt' 1101
. ""&11'1'"1''"01, a.Ua ""' au :n-czeoJ"''If· 0116• en&.t'll'avro, /'IWOt' 'I'B """'leo,, a.UG
•aa anallayano', 'I""" •n• xqo•o.. llfat'Or 11111'1'1 Jtal "' -rov, X(IIWOVf
y,,.,, avr..,. a!fiiiOYro."-Tolovro' I"" 011'1'0,, •· '1'. 4. • •
t •xu-" tu tlae .tory gou," "tlae tale 1uu it."-E.eb. Eecl& Hil&.
lib. iii. e. at. E.liaea a, Ed. 1612. . *Ibid, lib. iii. e. a.liaea 11.
§ a.wr"' CfZ11101'Jj'l'a.
108 J'A'fiiUI· OJ' TBK ·ISOORJ) Cl&lft'Uar.
manner fallen from it, and were by the zealous labours of ·
Quadratus recl'aimed." • · . ·
But what if it should turn out that this Quadratus waa
no Christian at all ! That he was a Pagan priest, who
officiated in the temple of God the ·Saviour .!Esctif:apius, then
·established at Athens, and that this prettmded testimony
to the Jew-Jesus, is nothing more than a broken para-
out of some accow1t that a heathen bUhop had given
of the miracles that were wrought by the son of Coroilie.
Let the reader return to our article JF..sculapius, and pro-
po$e to his own conviction, ·solve as he may the im-
portant queries thence emer,gent : ·
lst. If such an apology as.this purports to be, had been
written to the emperor ·A,drian, and Eusebius had pos-
sessed or seen a C9PY of it, why he should not have given
us the tDhole o£ it, or at least enough to .have given it
distin.ctiveness of application and·. !3ense, so ·as to ·put
beyotld all doubt those three grand primaries of everr_
Written document-who it was that wrote-to whom It
was that it wa8 what was. the subject of the
writing? . . . . . .
Of these inquiriea, .the broken sentence which Eusebius
has given. us, affords no i!Olution. It·might have been
written by any body. else as well as Quadratus-to any
body else as well as to Adr).an; and of.and concerning
&sculapius, as well, yea better and ·more probably, than
concerning any other figment whatever. . · ·
· No mind that hath the .faculty .of critical comparison,
can shut from their influence on .its conclusion these·
eighteen predications of tlle case :
. l. That Eusebius was .a Christian:evidence manufac-
turer, and was labouring and. digging in any way, or on
any ground, to find or to make. a testimony to primitive
Christianity. · .· · .
.2. That he lived and wrote in the age of 'pious fraud.,
.when it was considered as the most meritorious exploit to
turn the arms. anQ. defenqes ;of Paganism against itself,
to per\rert documents from their known sense, and to
the cause of <?hristianity,, not only bY: fqrging wri·
· tings, but by suppostng persons who never exiSted; ·
5. That Eusebilis himself indirectly confesses that he
_has acted on this principle, " that he has related whatever
might .redound to the glory, and that he has .
. . . . ..
Dig,tizcd by Google
·l':lTa&al 01' ,TB£ IISGOND CIUII'U&Y. · 309
1all·"'tbat could tend· t9 ·the disgrace ·of religion." • And
that "if. we subtract falsifiCIBtions, interpolations. and
-·eVident improbabilities, his account of the Christians
during the first century, amounts to little tnore than we .,
read in ·· that undateable compilation, the New Testa-
ment."t
4. That we have no indication whatever, either in the
New Testament, or in any credible •history, that Chris-
had been so BUCeessfully preached at Athens, as ..
to gain an·eitabliehment; or that. that city had become
the see of a Christian bishop, at any time within the three
first centuiiet. · ·
5.· ·That where•l»aul himaelf, with all his gift of tooguu
and power- of working miraciE4ff, was only regarded as a
babbler, and derided as· a poor jnsane vagabond, it outra-
ges the faculty of conceit itself, to conceive, that he could
na"f'e appointed and left the regular suooessiQn of an eccle-
siastical hierarchy. . · .
6. That we have the most unquestionable and unques-
tioned evidence, that ..Eseulapius was worshipped all along
in Athens, under the express title and designation of Oua
. . .
'f. That the Iiliraeles subsequently ascribed to Jesus
Christ, had been previously ascribed to, and believed to
have been wrought by · ·-w ·
8. That these m.iraeles, as ascribeiA .tt> lEsculapius, ail-
ewerin particular to those ref.errtld to in this passage
of Quadratus. ' . . ' . .
9. That, as ascribed to .lEIIcul&pius, these mirac\es of
and raising men from the dead (I pray
. not r.uring dead,. but raising them from sicknesaes of
which they irtberwise would aave died, and eo preventil)g
theit being DUIDbered with dead) were clwracterf,ltic of
..·this deity; a,nd oome within measure ()f probability-not
of theit h•ving hat>pened,-but of their having been
lieved to have happened. _ . . .
I0.::That that ·character of f)penness, publie1ty and no-
toriety1which · Quadratus here challenges as
eharaeteristic of the works of Ovr Satrioor .lEBculapivi, was
·aa peculiarly wanting anddeMient, nay, and even.reJloun-
' _. .My.Gieek te:ct ofE_b., wbicb ia 216 yean old, ia de6eieat here. ad
oblipl•to Jelytm the qllOtalioD as given by Gibbon, Decline and ii.
e. 16. p. 490. Hear also that man after ,God's own, bead, St. Cbry!loetdm:
•• Great il tbe Coree of deceit ! provided it be DOt excited by a treeebero• inteD-
tion."-Com. ont 1.t. 19. .
t -'1lelmed.6ioDd'a up!lblilbed Ed. of Plulucb. ill Appeadiee Primo, 11..
SlO J'.l'l'BJ:&I Ol' TBJ: sacolfo eo'l'u:ar.
ced and given up, as the very revene of of
the miracles. ascribed to Our &mour ,_ Clirist.
11. That tablets were up in the temple of ..t:ecu-
lapius, and all its walls and pillars covered ()ver and em-
blazoned with trophies of his victories over disease and
death. · ·
1!. That persons who bad been healed and raised froa
the dead (that is, recovered from diseases of which they
had like to have died,) were every day in attendance in
his temple, certifying the reality of the miracles· which
they sincerely believed had been wrought upon them,and
pouring forth in fervours of ecstatic devotion thej.rgrateful
acknowledgments to the god who had beard their prayers,
and magnified his power iQ their miraculous recoveries:-
but • . ,
18. That the works ofJesus Christ, were e:r.preaely llllid
to have been done in secret, and concealed·u much as
possible from human observance. His own re8Ufl'eCtion
is admitted by writers on the Christian evidence, to have
·been only a prit1au miracle.• A character of legerdemain 1
and collusion attaches to his most wonderful performances, I
even the showing of the New Testament itself. When
he was transfigured t he takes with him only his three
favourites.-Wben he turns water into wine, he ebooses
the time when the }Vitnesses were so drunk as not to know
· the he raises Jairus's daughter,·heputs I
away all her friends from witnessing th,e reanimatingpro-
cess.-Whe!l be cures the blind man, he takee·bim 88ide
frord·public observance.-When he cleanses the leper, 11
"llrailly him, See thou my twthing 1o at&!f ma!', W "'!' I
th:yulf to the pnut;"t and expressly avows. bts a1m and m·
tention to have been to bill& and_decet.e the people.§
1"4. These were the works, and the characteristiel of
the works of the Christian .Saviour, in diametrical oppoei·
tion to which, the bishop of £sculapius would with Bingu·
lar propriety, say, "But the works of our Saviour were
always conspicuouB, fo:r they were real," &c. as it follows:
and as it might have followed, or gone before-Theworb
of their Saviour were secret and clandestine, becaUie they I
were not real, nor have Christians so much a8 one public
trophy to show, or one in the whole world wbom
they can bring forward attest any sort of benefit at ad· I
• See Ipatloa'• Testirr.ony-Belsbam'a Evidenc& -
., t .Metamurpl&o•ed • tbe .real original word.
Ufaik, t «. · · ·· · §.Mark,' iv. 12. · ·· '
rAYH£Bt or 8£COKD CEKTU&Y. SJI ·
vantage received from their Saviom to the mind, body or
estate of any man, except in the way of a new
pretext for levying ·contributions on the folly, weakness,
and igtlOrance of mankind. And
15. ·That whereas not more than a twentieth part of the
Roman empire had embraced the Christian religion,
vious to the oonvenion of that (as calfs him)
holy· emptror Constantine : the worship of the god
lEsoulapius continued in the heart of the empire under
an unbroken succession of Pagan bishops, with scarcely
diminished splendour for several hundred after the
pretended diffusion of the New Light. .
16. .Thai notwithstan<Uag Constantine's destruction of
the Phtenieian temples, that at Athens still remain:ed.
17. We have better evidence than any that hath yet
been pretended for Christianity, of the belief of a miracu-
lo:us:eure wrought by deity, as. late as the year A. D.
485, which is thirty-five years on this side the middle of
the fifth century. ·
18. Nor, wl)atever Protestants may choose to think and
say of .the palpable Paganism of Popery,:ougl\t they to be
suffered-to blink the historical fact that the religion of Con-
stantine was of the very grossest type and form of all that
was ever popish.• So that they who choose to deny .that
Christianity one and the same religion,
must make their best bargrun of the consequence that fol-
lows.on their denial-even that Christianity kept flounder-
big about, arid found no settlement in the world for whose
benefit it was intended, till itwas taken up and established
by oi:.tr English Constantille, Henry the Eighth. ·
Tal: CitJusTr.lN APoLoGISTs, or those who are said to·
have addressed apologies to the Roman Emperors, or Sen-
ate, in vindication of Christianity and of Christiana, were
in ori:ler of time-
t.' Quadratus, Bishop of Athens •
2. Aristides, an Athenian Philosopher
S. JU.Stin Martyr
A. D. 119
1!1
140
• See hil delire to bave H- aDCl pray- fo•llil to1ll after death, cap. 71. A¥
•• how be COIDIDIUided that bis picture lhoald not be' in idolatro• templel," tU&
bonoar bein& "*"ed for Cbrisaian·cb111"Cbe.-18. •• How he commanded cbat
iiJ8!¥-thenl8b military lep1111 sboald pray on the Lord'e day."-19. ADd bill pie-
ty iilil faith in the Sip ofthe Croee--2. And bow the ScJthliDI
ud Of8100111e by the Sip ohbe 6. B. f. · ·
,g,tizcd by Google
•
8fS : I'A-'fll•u or
,f; Melito · .... D. 141
·6. 178
6. Tertulhan . • ·200
7. Minucius Felix, . · . . 210
8. Arn0biu8 ·
· . . 306
· The difference of time between these Christian advo-, '
cates, precludes us from taii.ng an,y view of their writinga
distinctively from their .occurrence in the regular
sion of Fathers. Of the two first oo remains are
AILISTIDES,. .&.•. D. 121.
·An ·Athenian ·Philosopher- and, Christian .Apologist, of
whom' in(orms us, that "he was a faithfUl man,
zealous· for ov,r· religion, and like' Quadratus, wrote- an
Apology for it·to Adrian, which," he adds, "is still
served among many."'* We have, however, nota word of
· this ; 110r should we, perhaps; have found such a name as
that of .!l'/'i$tide$ among· the faithful,' if the heathens had
not their Aristides the Jfllll, whose name was wanted
fol' the martyrolog-y.'
. .
' .• : . .. . . fiEGESIPPUSt .A. D. ISO. : .
pltJ.OOd by P.r:. forty:-three years later, lived
under .Adrian, afid.wrote,on the siege .of Jerusalem, com-
pri$iJlg ihe ecclesiastical history frorn the Apostles down to
his own time.. ·.TI,.oQgh Eusebiw3 represents him as hav-
lived in the time of the Apostles themselves; or as im-
mediately succeeding them, and having written five books
of .Memoin of the .flpostles, from the fifth of which he gives
us a loug th,e martyrdom of the apostle
James, the brother of Christ., whom
thUS--detJCribest-'·' Thill man was holy from his mother's
·wtomb; he drank neither wine nor strong drink.; neithef
.ate &ilf: wher.ein thet;e was life. He was neither
:shaven,nor anointed, nor ever used a bath. To him·8lone
·was Jt. to enter into the holy places. . He used no.
woollen garments; but wore only ·fine linen, and he ·went
tif6ne In'to the temple. ·· He was found·on his knees, mppli·
• .,·F.l(lC!, ffis$. lib. iY. c. ." :vol. "·.' • ·· . ·
..,f Of: llna•n....,, onj .nqlll'l'" n;ow flt'0,1<11'0f 6u16o.X'Ic-et' "•
.-., ...-.1. aliter0 o Ifll!1.;trol•
BUt. lib. u. p••66, c. .; .. . ; · ·
• Dig•tizcd by Google
I'ATHJ:I.I OJ' THE IECOMD CJ:NTUI.Y. 313
eating for the remission-of the sins of the people ; so that
his knees were overgrown with a callosity like those of a
camel ; from his . continual kneeling in prayer to God,
and supplication for the people ; and from. the excess of his
righteousness he was surnamed The Jun, and Oblias,
which signifies in Greek tht bt.llulark 6f tht peoplt, and righk-
OUBne88." w
I held this passage worthy of preservation, as furnishing
an additional proof that the first of that order of Mcentrio
and fanatical creatures whose successors afterwarda came
to be called Christians, were really Egyptian monks, as
Eusebias has in positive terms acknowledged them to be,
the regular descendants and of the philosophy of
Pythagoras. . _
None -of the gennine works of tl}is Hegesippus are ex-
tant; his name, however,. and the number and the subjectll
of the volumes ascribed to him being given, there were
data enow for Christian piety to fall to work upon : .
"There is a counterfeit volume of five books under his
name, the translator whereof they 11ay St. Ambrose was ;
nay, it is likelier that St. Ambrose himself was the author."
So says the Ecclesiastical Chronography, affixed to the
oldest editions of EUBebius. With Dr. Lardner, however,
St. Ambrose is an honourable,man,-"so are they all-all
honourable men !" ,
I can neither nor entirely reject the inference
that presents itself, from the fact of the title of Hegesip-
pus's five books-tht .Memoino_ftht J.lpostles-being precisely
the same as that under which Justin Martyr seems to quote
the contents of our New Testa:tnent.. ·
JUSTIN HARTYI., A. D. 140.
Is so called from his being believed to have suffered mar-
tjrdom,-a distinction which entirely harmonizes with the
·admissions of Dionysius, Origen, Tertullian, and Melito,
that the numbers of martyrs was really very few, and that
consequently martyrdom was no common occurrence to the
professors of Christianity. He was hom at Flavia Nea-
polis, anciently called Sichem, a citt of Samaria in Pa-
• o,,.,. •a• cruroqo •• t7t,,. ovcYo •l'f/JVxow •far• ;veow •n• T'7" ••fal'l" ov•
Bao&<W OVII tjlll'/'ll'fO IIIII flalaau• Otlll tX(I>jDtno--lltnll. T. l,
t:• fiWinG owov cYur'l" 1111/''llov eYea TO au '"' ro,._
.. -... 1. ' Beguipptu apud .Euletntn.
Dig,tizcd by Google
. I
SJ4 FATHERS OP THE SI:COND Clll'fTU&r.
lestine ; a circumstance which -fully ·accounts for
·Jewish turn and character which any system of philoso-
phy that had percolated his brain, wo\lld necessarily
imbibe. Dr. Lardner describes him as being early a lover
of truth, and informs us that.he studied philosophy under
several masters, first under a Stoic, next under a Peripa-
tetic, then under a Pythagorean, and lastly, under a Plato-
nic philosopher, whose principles and sentiments be pre-
ferred above all others, until he became acquainted with
the Christian Religion, which he then embraced as the
only safe and profitable philosophy."*·
· Fabricius supposes that he wa.S born A. n. 89, and suf-
fered martyrdom in the 74th.year of his age, which would
be A. D. 163.
The testimony of Justin Martyr to the contents of the
New Testament, for the sake of which he is adduced by
Lardner, is rendered nugatory by the facts: 1st, of the
existence of apocryphal gospels, which contained very
much of the same contents, and in .the same language, as
those that have been since received into the canon of the
New Testament: 2. That Matthew's and Luke's Gospels
were. mere compilations from previously existing docu-
ments, from which Justin might have made his extracts as
well, or rather than from the compilations 'Of our .Evan-
gelists : 3. That he has never mentioned the nlLIIles of our
Evangelists, but ·speaks of his authorities generally as
Commentaries, or .Mernoif• of the .llpoBtlu: 4. And that he has
also quoted passp.ges from those Gospels which the Church
has rejected, with indications of his entertaining as high
respect for them as for those it has received.
The principal works of Justin Martyr are his two AJ)olo-
gies, and his Dialogue with Trypho, the Jew, in two parts;
the latter of which is generally quoted by such writers as
Porteus, Doddridge, and Addison, in those contemptible
and truly wicked treatises on Evidences of the Chris-
tian Religion, which are written for the purpose of being
imposed on workhouse children, parish apprentices, and
candidates for confirmation, to make them believe in the
miraculous propagation of the Gospel.
This is the popular ·quotation from it :-"There exists
not a people; whether Greeks or barbarians, or any other
race of men, bY: whatever appellation or manners they
o,9,tizcd by Google
I'ATHERS OJ' THE SECOND CENTURY. 315
may be distinguished, however ignorant of arts or agricul-
ture,-whether they dwell under tents, or wander aboutin
covered waggons,--among whom prayers are not offered
up, in the name of a crucified Jesus, to the Father and
Creator of all things." One's wonder that so early a
Christian should have committed himself in so monstrous
an absurdity, utterly destructive as it is of all the stories
of martyrdom which give such pathetic effect to the tale
of Christian: Evidences, is only subdued by the truly para-
·lyzing impudence of those who would, in our. own day,
still attempt to impose it on Christian congregations.
The character andgenius ofJustin's Apologies for Chris-
tianity will be best appreciated from so much of the text
itself as I subjoin.
Justin Martyr'• .R.pology, addressed in the Year 141. ·
. · .fl. Specimen.
" Unto the Autocrat Titus jElius Adrianus; unto An-
toninus Pius, most noble Cresar and true Philosopher;
unto Lucius, son of the philosopher Cresar, and adopted
of Pius, favourers of learning : and unto the sacred Se-
nate, with all the people of Rome ; on the behalf of those
persons who, among all sorts of men, are unjustly hated
and reproached: I, JusTIN, the son of Priscus Bacchius
of Flavia Neapolis, of Palestine in Syria, as one of their
number, do, suppliant with earnest prayers, present this
my petition"-(omissis omittendif.)-"You hold not the
scales of Justice even; for, instigated by headstrong pas_
-
sions, and driven on also by the invisible .whips of evil
demons, you take great care that.we shall suffer though
you care not for what.'"' .
" For verily I must tell you that heretofore those impure
spirits under various apparitions went into the daughteJ.'S
of men, and defiled boys, at:td dressed up such scenes of
horror, that such as entered not into the reason of things,
but judged by appearance only, stood aghast at the spec-
tres ; and being shrunk up with fear and amazement, and
never imagining them to be devils, called them gods, and
invoked them by such titles as each devil was pleased to
nickname him.flelf by.t
.. Is this language that could have been addreaaed to those models ofj118ti.ce and
jllll government, Adrian and Antoninus ? Wonld the like ofit have been endared
lly any Cbriltian Sovereip ? llaa it eo much u an appearance ofplausibility ?
i Reeves's Apologies, p. 10. ·
316 I'ATBER8 01' THE SECOim CENTURY.
" Ifthen we hold some.opinions near of kin to the poets
and philosophers in greatest repute among you, why are
we thus unjustly hated? For, in. saying that all things
were made in this beautiful order by God, what do we
eeem to say more than Plato ? When we teach a general
conflagration, what do we teach more thaq the Stoics ?
By opposing the worship of the works. of men's hands, we
concur with Menander the comedian ; and by declaring
the LoGos the fi·rst-begotten- of God, our Master Jesus
Christ,.to be bOrn of a Virgin without any human mixture,
and to.be crucified and dead, and to have risen again, and
ascended into heaven, we say no mQre in this, than what
you say of those whom you style the Sons of Jove.
" .For you need not be tol«i what. a parcel of .eons the
writers most in vogue among you assign to Jove. There's
Jove's interpreter, in imitation of the LoGos,• in
worship among you. · There's lEsculapius, the physician,
smitten by a bolt of thunder, and after that ascending
into heaven. There's Bacclws tof11 to pieces, and Her- ·
oules burnt to get rid of his pains. .There's Pollux and
Castor, the sons of Jove by Leda, and Perseus by Danae.
Not to mention others, I would fain lmow why you
always deify the departed Emperors, and have a fellow at
hand to make affidavit that he saw Cresar mount to heaven
from the funeral pile.f As to the·son of God, called
...Jesus, should we allow him to be nothing more than man,
yet the title of the Son of God ·is very justifiable upon the
account of his wisdom, considering you have your Mercu-
ry in worship, under the title of the WoaD and Messenger
of God. ·
"As 1o the objection of our Jesus•s being cmcified, ·r
say, that suffering was common to all the forementioned
sons of Jove, but only they suffered another kind of
death. As to his being.born of a you have your
Perseus to balance that. As to his cunng the lame, and
the paralytic, and such as were cripples from their birth,
this is little IJlore than ·what you say of .your lEscula-
pius.:j: · · · . ·
" But if the Christian profession must still meet with .
. . ., .
• Thia·Mercwy bad,.however, beld his title of tbe Lo8o• IIWIY sa- befOre it ·
was challenged for tbe Christian Merc11ry.-&e chaPter 26.
t In tbe cuo of Romulua, one Juliua Proculu, .a IIWI ef exemplary virtael.
took a solemn oatb tbat RomulWI, bimself appeanld to him, and ordered him to
inform tbe Senate of. bis being called up to the -mbly of the gods, UDder &be
name of Quirinm.-Plutarch, and Dionyaius Halicar. lib. 2, p. 1.24.
*See .e-Jilpina and J- Chrilt eompared. chap. 10. · ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
FATHERS 0,1' THE SECOND CENTURY. 81'7
such bitter treatment, remember what l told you before,
that the farthest you can gd' is to take away our lives,*
but l<>&s of this life will certainly be no ill bargain to
\Hl ; but you indeed, -and all such wicked enemies without
repentance, ahall one day -dearly pay for this persecution
in fire. ever,lasting.t And as far as these things shall
appear agreeable to truth, so far we would desire you to·
respect 'em accordingly: but if they seem trifling,
them as trifles-: however, don't against the profes-
sors of them, who are people of the most inoffensive
lives, as severely as against your professed enemies. For
tell you I must, that if you persist in this course of iniquity,
you .shall not escape .the vengeance of God in the other
ld "+ ..
wor . ·+ .
The reader ·has here a fair specimen of the whole com-
position, and a complete view of the state and character
of the most primitive Christianity.
It will be seen from the fickleness of Justin's character,
and the infinitely suspicious style of his Apology (which it
is impossible to.believe was ever presented at all,) that it
is in the highest degree doubtful whether he was really a
Christian, or any thing more than an Ammonian philoso-
pher ; that is, one of the sect of J.lmmoniur &ccas, who in
the second century maintained, that alJ religions were
equally founded in the delirium of crazy brains, and in
the craft of shrewd ones ; and that there was no such
difference Paganism and Christianity, but that
they might very well be .incorporated and considered as
one and the same, equally proper to be solemnly taught,
and had in respect by the common people, and laughed at
secret by the wise. § . · . · . . . . ·
The story of his martyrdom has no other plaus1bility
of history than a brief notice of a lewd quarrel with a
cynical philosopher, Crescens, wno was provoked to knock
him on the head for bringing a eharge which we have had.
Christian bishops who would have felt more dispo8ed to
·forgive than to resent. II ·
The attempt to represent Justin as a martyr, strongly
reluctant admisaien that no lives taken away.
t P. 76, cb. 40. . . *P. 90.
§ Tbe celebrated Origeo bad, in hill early days, been a disciple ofthe alkccoiJiro
Ammoniui.--Lardner, vol. 1. p. 520.
U yov" o nolu natJeqacrr•a ,.,., 1111'11/lf.:.
,.,..,. c-himeelfgave the fittest trauBiation Bed.
l&t. Jib. 4, c. 1'1. B_. . . . .
28•
Dig,tizcd by Google
316 •ATHERS OF THE SECOND CENTURY.
iltustrates the general character of Christian martyrdom.
Those who suffered by the Ulost just and impartial admin·
istration of the laws, as robbers or murderers, or who 1
brought on themselves the .consequences of the provoca•
tions they had given, so they made a professio)l of Chris•
tianity, never failed to acquire the p()sthumous renown 4>f
martyrdom. All Christian thieves were sure to pass fot"
saints; and even our Henry VIII. and Queen. Mary have
. been represented as the victims of persecution, suffering
under the obstinacy of their heretical subjects. .
MELITO, A. D. 141.
Bishop of Sardis. .
Melito, supposed by some of the moderns to be the
' same as the .IJ.ngel of the Church. of Sardis, whom Christ is
represented in the Revelation of St. John, as. ordering
that Apostle to address in the Epistle there dictated, was
Bishop of Sardis in Lydia. In the very ancient
graphy affixed to the oldest English editions of Eusebius1
and which, upon the whole I find easiest to he conciliatecl
to some sort of consistency with circumstances, he if
called Meliton, and placed next to· Justin, at A. D. 141,
which sixty-four years·earlier than his place in Lard•
ner. He dedicated an Apology to .Marcus Antoninus il\
behalf of the Christian community, then under suffering,
which Eusebitts, in his Chronicle, places at the year 170.
As Marcus Antoninus began his:reign March 7, A. D. · 161,
ibis Apology at .least cannot be dated earlier than that
time; and taking it, upon ·the most laborious investiga..
tion, to be one of the most .genume and authentic docu-
ments, of so high antiquity, that antiquity could ever
eupply : it may be well esteemed to be matter of real and
.ub81Gntial evidence. Making the due allowance for the
barbarity of the times, and hopiug, as we may, that i(
was the ert?-elty of others, and not his fan9;ticism1'
that made him .an eunuch, one cannot enough admire the
elegant simplicity and.plain and rational statement of the
probable, and therefore .convincing, facts toot rest on the ·
a?thority of his most statef!len.t. Euse.:.
bms has preserved a large fragment of this Important
document, from which Dr. Lardner liberally renders for us
the annexed pa1'agraph, which he says is remarkable for
politeness, as well as upon other accounts:
" Pious men," says he, " are no10 perSecuted and h•
o;9; ized byGoogle
I'ATHERI OJ' THE' n!COND CENTURY. !1$
raased throughout all Asia by new decrees, wsrcH w.1t
NEVER DONE BEFORE ;* and impudent sycophants, and such
as covet the possessions of others, taking occasion from
the edicts, rob without fear or shame, cease not to
plunder those who have offended in nothing, If these
things are done by your order, let them be thought to be
well done-for it is not reasonable to believe that a just
emperor should ever decree what1s llnjust-and we shall
cheerfully bear the reward of such _a. death. But if this
resolution and new edict, which is not fit to be enacted .
against barbarians and enemies, proceeds not from
much more would we you not to neglect and give
us up to this public rapine." .
But perhaps it was not, in Dr. Lardner's view, conducive
to the interests of piety god religion, to .have continued
his quotation into the very hext paragraph of this docu•
ment. For the importance ofthe truth with which it teems,
this single passage outweighs the value of a thousand
volumes of factitious eviaences. Other testimonies only
. serve to thicken the darkness, and to remove the truth we
seek still further and further from the reach of our· re-
search ; this leads us directly to it, and with so much the
happier effect, as it appears to have been no part of our
guide's design to have done so. The sincerity and devo-
tion of this Father's mind to the Christian cause, renders
a testimony like his such as Christians themselves must re-
spect. The adverse bearing of the testimony of a friendly
party, like the favourable bearing of the admissions of an
enemy, is universally considered to constitute the most
satisfactory sort of historical certaiil,ty. I hold the pre-
servation of this important passage, and bringing it forth
into the prominence it challenges, worth a place in my
text itself, and the more so, as I feel assured that there is
no writer on the· Christian evidences whatever who has
hitherto the passage, or who, if he had possessed
diligence of research enough to have found it, wo.uld not
have .taken pains to bury it &gain. This it is :
H ftlocTOfta, 1tflOT1flO• •• '!"!'"'"·· Btrln.tJj(I(J(JII
lJe <IOtf JtaTa T''!• 41111)'011<71'011 TOll 001/ 1rflGy0.01/ f)'l""""'
fUU.co-ra T"1 0'1 (laocllta atoto..
"For the philosophy which we ·profess, truly flourished
aforetime among the barbarous nations ; but having blos-
somed again (or been transplanted) in the great reign of
• To YGfl ov6t 1r1111rOTI
Dig,tizcd by Google
•
110 l'.lTBER. 01' t;IIE BECOKD CI!IJTURY.
thy ancestor Augustus, it proved to be above .all thingl
ominous of good fortune tO thy kingdom."
The passage continues : "For from thenceforth the R!>-
. man empire increased in glory, whose inheritor now you
iare, indeed br all your subjects : both
· and your son Will be ·contmually prayed for. Retain,
therefore, this religic:m, which grew as your empire grew ;
which began with which was reverenced by
your ancestors before all other religions. Only Nero ·and
• Domitian, through the persuasion of certain envious and
malicious persons, were disposed .to bring our doctrine
into hatred. But your godly ancestors corrected their
blind ignorance, and rebuked oftentimes by their
the rash enterprises of those who were ill affected towar:ds
us. And'your own father wrote unto the municipal author-
ities in our behalf, that they should make no innovations,
nor practice anything prejudicial .to the Christians. And
of yourself, y;e are fully persuaded that we shall obtain
the object of our·humble petition, in that your opinion and
sentence is correspondent 11nto thatof your predecessors,
rea, aQd even more gracious, and far more.
This document-and it is 'Yholly ab-
solutely fatal to all the pretended historical evidences of
Christianity, inaamuch as it demonstrates the facts- .
Ist. That it isnot true that Christians, as such, had ever
at any time been the objects of any .extensive or notorious
political persecution. . · ·
2nd. That it is not true that Christianity had any such
origin as has been generally imagined for it.
8rd. That it is not true that it made its first appearance
.at the time generally assigned; for, nqOTf()or it had·
flourished before that time. · . .
4th. That it is not true that it originated in Judea, which
was a province of the Roman empire ; for it was an impor-
tation from some foreign countries which le.y beyond the
boundaries of that empire.
-....,..--
' It is enough to arrange their places the minor names
of'Apollinaris, Dionysius of.Corinth, Athene.goras, Theo-
philus of Antioch, Miltiades, Serapion, and whoever else
there may have been in the space of time from Melito,
whose testimony is so esse.ntial, till we come to these dis-
tinguished luminaries .of the church, and ·pillars of the
faith, with it is absolutely necessaey to be acquaint·
ed. The rest are but as sparks on tinder•
.
Dig,tizcd by Google
I'ATRERS 01' THE SECOND CENTURY. 3Ji
ST. IREN..t:US, A. D. 19.2.
BishQp of Lyons.
Learned men are not agreed about the time of Irenmll8,
or 9f his principal work againRt heresies; He was bishop
of Lyons in GauL One cannot reasonably fix him at so
early a date as -is sometimes claimed for him (as having
been the disciple of Polycarp, who was the disciple of
St. John), on ac.count of the later date ofthe heresies and
corruptions of Christianity, against which he has written,
and which must of course have had time to have spread,
and to have become very serious evils, before they could
have called for. the compositien of so ]earned and laborious
a work intended to expose and them. It would be
incompatible with that argumentative generosity which I
have proposed to myself as the principle of this DIEGEsu,
to take up as a proposition the earliest date that the
learned would grant me for this Father, for the sake of
pouncing on the fatal eorol1ary that must follow; i. e. if so
early wrote Irenmus, so much earlier still must those .he:
retical forms of Christianity have obtained in the world,
which Irenmus wrote to refute; they, then, were not de-
rived from Christianity, but Christianity was derived from
them; they are not corruptions and depravations 'from an
original stock of primitive orthodoxy, bst they are them-
selves the primitive type, and orthodoxy is a cor-
ruption or an improvement upon them. Like all the.rest
of the noble ·army, lrenrellS contFived to carry off the
cro)Vn of martyrdom; but as, at any rate, blood-thirsty
Pagans suffered.him to enjoy his bishopric in peace till he
was ninety-three years old, he had not much to complain
of, in their expediting so slow .a'profP:ess to glory.
He is honoured by Dr. Lardner Wtth the epithet, " this .
ezcellent peraon;" and is called by Photius the ditline Irenmus..
The best accourit of him which the English reader can
expect to find, is in Middleton's Free Inquiry into the Mi-
raculous Powers, &c. in which he is neither spared nor
flattered. The best apology for him is one of the oldest in
being; and w:hich we have continual occasion to remember
in reading the works of Christian. divines, "Remember
that .the Holy Ghost saith, Omnis homo mendax." We
must not 'wonder, then, that Irenmus should have been in
the habit of asserting as true, not only what he himself
knew to be false, but, in the plenitude of that security of
S!,2 I'J,THERS OF THJ: 8RCOKD CENTURY.
not being contradicted, and of being able to cloak himself
up in the sanctity of affected contempt for all who were
more honest ·and better informed (on which all other
churchmen as well as he place their ultimate reliance),
ihat he shoqld put forth as truth what he knew was im-
possib1e to be so, and what every sensible man in the world
must have known so too; that he should audaciously mis-
read inscriptions on public monuments, and pretend au-
thorities for the proof of the Christian religiot17 even in
the teeth of thousands who both knew and saw that there
was nothing of the sort in existence.
Thus he pretended that therewas a monument or image
between two bridges on the river Tyber at Rpme, bearing
an inscription to Simon the holy God,•·which the Devil bad
caused, to be erected there to the honour of Simon Magus,
whom they were to be persuaded, by that sort of proof
_
that their ancestors had worshipped; thence to infer a co-
incidence with the apostolic history.
Amid innumerable ridiculous stories, he tells ust that
John, who leaned on the breast of our Saviour, ·was a
priest, a martyr, o.nd a doctor of divinity, and wore a
petalon (some part of the Popish trumpery), which, on
such. authority as'this, was'to claim the sanction of apos-
tolic institution. The distinctness and solemnity of his
assurance that miracles were still in full vogue in -the
church in his days; t9at ''they still possessed the power
·of raising the dead, as the Lord and his apostles did,
through prayer; and that oftentimes the whole church of.
certain place, by reason of some urgent cause, 'with
fasting and chaste prayer hath brought to pass that the
departed spirit of the.dead hath returned to the corpse,
and the man was, by the earnest prayers of the saints, re·
stored to life again." · Such a man never' expected that
rational beings would believe him: no gqod cause would
thank him for his advocacy. · ·
However early Irenreus be placed in.the order of Chris-
tian Father8 (Dodwell supposed that he was born as early
as the year 97, and Dr. Lardner places him at A. n. 178, ·
and distinguishes him as a saint), so early prevailed many
of the grossest absurdities and which Pro-
testants are wont to consider as peculiarly characteristic of
the church of .
• Eaaeb. lib, 2, c. 34. ·t Ibid. lib. 8, c. 28.
Dig,tizcd by Google
FATHERS bF SECOND CEN,TURr. 388
PANTENUS, A. D. ·198.
PANf.5:NUs has claim on our acquaintance as master of
Clemens Alexandrinus and Origeri·, and head of the univer-
rity or 'school of Alexandria, in -Egypt; though, 011 the beat
calculations, it would seem that he was living even in .the
third century. His high authority is indicated in the cir- .
cumstance of Origen's pleading ·his example in justification
of -
his study of heathen le$rning. Photius speaks of him
as a hearer of some who ha.d·seen the ·apostles, and even
of soine of the apostles themselveR. . ·
Eusebius bears this important testimony to his character
and place in history:*" At that time {scil; about the period
of the' accession ·of Commodus) there presided in the
school of the faithful at that place (scil. Alexandria) a man
highly celebrated on account of his by· name
Pcmtrenus. For there had been from ancient time erected
among them a school of sacred learning, which remains to
this day; and we have understood th11t it has been wont
t'o be furnished with men eminent for their eloquence and
the study of divine things; and it is said that this person
excelled others of that time, having been ·brought·up in
the Stoic philosophy; that he was nominated or sent forth ,
as a missionary to preach the gospel of Christ to the na·
tions of the East, and to have travelled ihto India. For
there were yet at that time many evange,lil!tS of the word,
animated witQ. a divine zeal of imitating the apostles, by
contributing to .the enlargement of the gospel, and build:-
ing up the of whom this Pantmnus was one; who
is said to have gone to the Indians, where it ·is commonly
said·he found the gospel of Matthew, written in the He-
brew tongue, which before his arrival had been delivered
to smile in that country who had the knowledge of Christ,
to whom Bartholomew, of the apostles, is said to have
preached, and to have left With them that WJ,'iting of Mat-
thew,•and that it was preserved among thetnto that time.
This Pantmnus, thed"efore, for his many excellent
aMes, was at last made president of the school of Ale%-
andria, where he set forth the treasures of .the divine
principles both by word of mouth and by his writings."t
· What St. Jerom says ofthis ancient Christian, is to this
purpose: "' Pantremis, a philosopher of the Stoic sect, ac-
cording to an ancient custpm of the city of Alexandria,
·was, at .the request of ambassad(,>rs from India, 'sent into
·• I find this pwage .:ea_dy translated for me by Lardner, vol. 1, p. 390.
t Ecelee. Hilt. lib. 5, e. 9. · - , . .
Dig•tizcd by Google
314 I'ATHB$ 01' 1'BE SECOND' CI!NTURY.
that country· by Demetrius, bishop of Alexandria; where
he found that Bartholomew, one of the twelve apostles,
had preached the eoming of our Lord Jesus .Christ, ao-
gospel of Matthew, which he brought back
with h1m to Alexandria, in Hebrew letters."*
Here have we another clue-to the real history of Chris-
tianity, windingQp to the same core of the labyrinth, and
bringing us through a varied tracfto the result. which we
have already ascertained, under the guidance of Melito,
Eusebius, and Philo. a missionary from the
Therapeutan college of Alexandriarseenis to have brought
from India the idolatrous legends of the Hindoo god
Chrishna, whom.he imported into the ;RouiO.n dominions,
like a good Eclectic as he -
was, unitiijg· the characters of
the Greeian, or Phrenician · YEsus, and. the Indian
CirRrsHNA, "in om Lord JestJB OhriBt," whose history, at
first contained in THE DIEGESJS, or general naqative, was
rwdited by: tlri'ee Egyptian: seeretaries, afterwards yclept
·the evangelists, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and subse-
quently enlarged by an appendix of Egyptia11 rhapsodies,
under the denoinination of the Gospel according to .St.
John. The discovery of the unkoown term in a quadratic
equation, never more entirely responded to all the requi-
sites of the problem, than these facts do to every rational
query that can arise out of the phenomena of the goapel
legend. · . ·. . ·
' l . .
-----·
ALE,XA.l'(DRINUS1 A
. D. 194.
Or, as ·he is entitled by Dr. Lardner, St. Clement of .Alex-
andria, was, as Eusebius intimates, originally a heathen,
thougp he succeed,ed Pantmnus as president of the mon.k-
ish university of Alexandria, which mankind have to thank
.for-the concoction Ol' getting up the whole gospel scheme,
as imp<)rted from India, and modified to the
.taste of the nktions which acknowledged the supremacy
of Rome. Mr. was of opinion that all the works
of Clement which are remaining were written betweenthe
years 198 and the.end of 195. His works are very exten-
sive, his authority.very high in the church, and his name
and place in history chiefly to be .remembered on account
ofthe frequent quotation of his Stromata, or fragments, and
. other pieces. In point·of evidence be affords nothing, ex-
; oept.thatfrom the oirou!Dstanee of thefour gospels haTing
rece1ved the more particular countenance of the Alexan-
• St. Jerom quoted by Lardner, voL 1, p. 891.
o;9; ized by'Google
,
\
l'.lTR'Illl OJ' TltB ·SECOND CBNTUJlY, 3!5
drine college, over which he presided, he and all other
aspirants to university honours,. and the ecclesiastical
emoluments that would follow them, must be expected to
pay all due deference to the books his university had ·
chosen to patronize. . .
TERTULLU.N, A. D. 200.
Quintus Septimus Florens Tertullianus, the last that
can be read into the second century, and the very first of
all the Latin was, like the'rest of them, original-
ly a heathen, was afterwards a most zealous and orthodox
and finally fell into heresy. He was made
presbyter of the church of. Carthage in Africa, of which
he was a native, about A. n. 198, and died, as may be con-
jectured, about the year .220. As he had beoome tinctured
with heresy, he lost the honour of his place in " the
onrty of. martyrs." .
· The chantcter of his style, as given by Lactantius, may
be allowed by all.-" It is rugged, unJ)E)lished, an.d very ·
obscure;" and yet, as Cave observes, itis lofty and mas-
culine,·and carries n kind of majestic eloquence with it,
that gives a pleasant relish to judicious and inquisitive
reader. "There appears," says Lardner, in his writings
token& of.true unaffected humility and modesty......
virtues in which the primitive· C.hristians were generally
so very eminent." . .
Of this assertion ,of Dr. Lardner, and, consequently, of
the character of assertions likely to be made by the Doc-
.tor generally, where the honour of Christianity and of
Christiana was to be maintained, I leave the reader to
judge from the annexed ·
Specimen of &. Tertullian'• true unaffected humility and mod-
uty, ita hil disC!Jf.Wit against the lin of going to the Thea-
tre. ·
are fond of expect the greatest of all
sP,Cctaeles-the last and eternal judgment ofthe universe!
· 1How shall I how how how exult,
when I behold so many proud and fancied gods
gr(>aniag1n the lowest abyss of darkness; so many magis-
trates, who persecuted the name ofthe Lord, liquefying in
fiereer fires than they ever kindled against the Christians;
sage philosophers blushing in red-hot flames, with
their deiuded scholars; so many celebrated poets tremb-
ling before the tribunal, not of Minos, but of Christ; so
29
Dig,tizcd by Google
St6 I'ATRIRS OJ' THE SECOND Cli:NTURI'.
many more tuneful in the expression of their
own sufferings; so many dancers,"*' &c.-I hope the rea-
der may think here is humility and modesty eBough!
Specimen of Tertullian;s m11nner of temoni.g' on tht eridmca
of ChriBtianity.t
" I find no other means to prove myselfrto be impudent
with success, and happily a foot, than by my contempt of
.shame; as, for instance,-I maintain that the Sop of God
was born: why am I not ashamed of maintaining such a
thing? Why! but beca'llse it is itself a shameful
-1 that the Son of God died: well, that 18
wholly credible· because it is monstrously absurd.-1
maintain that after having been buried, he rose again: and
that I take to be absolutely true, because it WM manifestly
impossible."t · ·
This language, not being protected by privilege of iu.
ap1ration, is allowed to conv.ey its full'drift of absurdity to
our awakened intelligence. ·It is sarest to go to sleep and
give over .theperfectly pariillel rhapsodies
of the mspll'ed chtef of smners. . ·
Where TertuUian is intelligible, his testimony to the
#attis rerum up to his time, is highly impor-
tant. And 'tis from hts Apology addressed to the Emperor
·and the Roman .Senate in the year 198, which Dr.. Lard-
ner justly calls his master-piece, that we collect a testi-
mony corrQborative of that of MelitQ, of Origen himself,
and of the .highest degree of conjectural probability, in
demonstration of tlie utter fu.Jsehood and romance of
the whole proposition on which Paley rests the stress of
his of Christianity. So far is it from ttuth,
• Sapemunt alia epect8cala, ille altimae et perpetaaejudicii dies, ille nationibu
ioaperataa ille detisae, cam tanta eecali vetaetae et tot ejae naiivitates uno igne hall-
rientar. Qall) tunc spectaoali latitado ? quid admirer ! quid ridtllllD ! ubi gaudeam,
ubi exukem, 8pectaD8 tot et tantos lllP reoepti fluncillbaotur, mimill
tenebril cougemiecentee 1 item plli!sidee peraecutoree Dominici nominis, IIIIBvioribal
quam ipsi llammis erevierunt Jiqueecentee ?· ·Quoa eapientee pbiloeophos coram dit-
cipalis saie ana erubeecentee, etiam Poetas, non Rbadamanti nao
atl MiDois IIOd ad. inopmati Chrini tribunal pelpitanlell, &c.-Ita citat locum Po-
64ntu Obtrectator, p. 150. Svjjiciat kctorijwto pro IJU(toritate.-R. T.
t De Spectaculis, c. SO. ·
*Se rendered and authenticated by the original text, quoted my " Syntlfo ·
ma," p. 106, my first publication from this prillon; a work whiCh tboee whole·
IIC&Ddaloas impoetiU'e8 and audacioae alandem provoked, find it wisest to treat wid&
contempt. The Christian war is alwap Ita tact is to throw out iU
calumDJes, but never to allow the aceused his privilese of.clefence. To reed die
ntuperatione that Christiane heap on infide11l, ia an exercile of godly piety: to ftDo
tare but to look 011 an infidel'• vmdication, is. playins with edpl toolt.--Noae
rail10 load, u they who rail ia safety !.
Dig,tizcd by Google
FATHEjS OF THE SECOND CENTURY. 827
that Christians were ever _
the victims of and
persecution on the _score of their profession of a pure and
holy doctrine, that in addition to the testimony of the
general sense and fairest scope of the greatest number of
texts of Scripture itself,* the truly respec4Lble suffrage of
Melito bishop of Sardis, the express declaration of Origen,t
that up to his time the number of martYrs was very incon-
siderable, and above all, to the irresistible conviction of
.all the rational probabilities of the case, we may now add
THE TESTiMONY OF TERTULLU.Nt
That the wisest of Roman Emperi>rs luwe protectors of
· · the Christians. · ·
"' The Christian persecutors have been always men di-
vested of justice, piety, and common shame, upon ·whose
government you yotirselves have put a brand, and res-
cinded their acts by restoring those whom they con-
demned. . But of all the· Emperors down to thls present
reignt wh.
o understood any thing of religion or humanity,
name me one who ever persecuted the Christians. On·
the contrary, we show you the excellent M. Aurelius for
our. and patron, who though he could not pub-
licly set aside the penal laws, yet he did as well, he
publicly rendered them ineffectual in another way, by
. dis0011raging our a<1Cusers with the last punishments, viz.
burning alive. ·
" Doos.·not the prison sweat with your heathen crimi;.
nals continually?:-Do not the mines continually groan
with the load of heathens?-Are not your wild beasts fat-
tened with heathens?-Now, among all these malefactors,
there's not a Christian to be found for any crime but that
of his name only, or if there be, we disown him, for li
Christian."§ . . . ·
Such language as we have seen Tertullian use,·and such
a spirit of annoyance and .actual assault upon the rights
. .
' • .1 Timothy, iv. Godliness,is profitable, &:e.-1 .Peter, iii. 18. And who .
is be tbat will hann you, if ye be fOllowers of that which is good 1-v. 16, That
' they may be ashamed that falsely aoeuse your good oonversation.--Mattbew, •·-
Tbat they may see your good works, and sl!lrifY your Father which il in heaven.
t Quoted in Gibbon,-ebap. 15. . · .
· t Reeves' Apologies of, &e. .
§ This is an early specimen of primitive Quakerism, the policy ofa sect of the
moat arrogant, most fraudulen.t, intoleraat, m-:n that ever
adomed the gospel and disgraced humamty. In every thine the diametneal revene
or their professioJIII. It may aeem bard to sa>: that never was an hoiiM man
amoDg them; but there never was a bard nymc .eo Ji!te a true eue.
Dig,tizcd by Google
328 FATHERS OJ' THE •THIRD CENTURY.
and liberties of their Pagan fellow citizens, must occasion·
ally have provoked the passions of any inen who had no
supernatural grooes to subdue and coerce the sentiment&
of nature. The spitting in a magistrate's face-the inter·
ruption of Pagan worship, the total expulsion of their
own children and brethren from all membership, relation,
or succession of inheritance, in the families of which
they were a part, upon their not conforming to the
and all such sort of .as persons who desired
martyrdom, and delighted in being ill used, would be
likely to adopt, might be followed by just, and
sometimes by excessive retribution; but-" it is certain
that we may appeal to the grat-eful confessions of the
first Christians, that the greatest part ofthose magistrates
who exercised in the provinces the authority of the
Emperor or of the Senate, and to whose hands alone the
jurisdiction of life and death was intrusted, behaved like
. men of polished manners.and liberal education, who .res-
pected the rules of justice, and who were .conversant with
tbe precepts of philosophy.t In one word, the P.agan
magistrates neither were, .nor pretended to be, under the
in6u.ence of motives, and there are no
natural inotives to incline any men to·be cruel and inex- '
orable.
-·-
CHAPTER ·XLII.
THE .FATHERS OJ' THE' THIRD CBI!n'11&Y.
. . ORIGEN, A.. D. 230; .
It is only necessary tO follow the isoterio or interior evi-
dences of the Christian religion below the close·of.the seo-
ond century, for the sake of bringing the reader aequainted
with the two most distinguished·persons that ever
concerned with it; Origen, its most distinguished priest,
and Constantine, its most distinguished patron. Origen,
. was born in that great cradle and nursery of all .supersti·
tio.n, ·Egypt, in the year 184 or 185-that is, the fifth or.
sixth of the Emperor· Coirimodus, and died in the sixty·
ninth or sevenqeth year of his age, .a.. D. 253. Though
• - - Quque Jpee 'ridi
· Et quorum! Qu ta1ia faado!
· t Gibbon'• DecliDe and Fall, chap. ·16. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
FATR-ERI OF ',I'HE THIRD .CENTUR·Y, 3!9
Eusebius flatly denies the assertion of Porphyry, that
Origen had been originally a heathen,-and•was
wards converted to Christianityj yet Origen is proud to
vindicate to himself his imitation of his. predecessor,
Pantrenus, in the study·of profane learning. ·He had
studied under that celebrated Ammonius
Saccuff, .who; in the second centuty, had taught that·
" Christianity and when rightly understOod,
differed in no essential points, but had a common origin,
and really were one and the same religion, but
schismatical trickery of fanatical .adventurers, who
sought .to bring over the trade and profits of spiritualizing
into their.own· hands, havir;tg introduced a distinctioo:
where in reality.there was no difference.!' .
This was unquestionably the orthodox doctrine of the
second centUry, and ·it'so entirely quadrates with all the
historical phenomena; that one cannot but hold it honour-
able bOth to Origen's head and heart, that he has owned
his early proficiency in the .8minoni4nphilosophy, under this,
its·illustrious master. . · ', · ·
Leonides, the father· of Origen, is said to have suffered
martyrdom, .and to have been encouraged thereto by
Origen (who was the oldest of his seven children) 'Yhen
not quite seventeen·years of sge: a fact, which if 1t we,re
credible, would. bear a very equivocal reading. ·
In the sincerity of his devotion to the cause of ·
.Monkery-from which Christianity is unquestionably de-
rived " he.was ·guilty of that rash act so well known/'
which he held to be his .duty as inculcatea by Christ in
the celebrated Matt. :xix. 12. His conduct at least demon-·
strates the eXistence· of the .text, of and unques-
tionable antiquity in hi'S time, and··the 'sincere prOstration
of his mind to its cortstraining authority. ·
This. argument, adroitly: handled, would -constitute one'
·of the very strongest evidences. of Christianity : and
played off with the _
blustering airs of sanctification and
parade of learning, whi'ch are generally ealled in to the
aid of · canonical sophistication, might much puzzle the
r.Sciolist' in these studies. The difficulty, however, is in•
stantly dissipated'upon collation of the··character of the
text itself, ·with the. facts of history which this DIEGEsrs
supplies. . · . ·
11
• The text itself is Wlworthy of the charaeter of
rational and moral inculcation which Christians generally
·challenge for the discourses of divine master..
!9• .
Di9Jiizcd by Google
830 FATHERS pF TBE THI.RD CENTURY.
2. It goes not to· the extent .of ·an institution of the
practice.there spoken of. , . .
3. The practice is allowed, approved, and sanctioned,
but not positively enjoined or commanded..
4. T4e text implies the historical fact of such a practice
having existed long anterior to the time of·the speaker;-
and .
5. Secessarily supposes the antiquity and notoriety of
its prevalence.-This it is, . .
" But he said unto them, Jlll mtn this doctrine,
save they to tJJhom it is given. For ,thers are some tJJh.ick
were so bom from Ul.eir mother's tJJomb, and there are some
which tJJere made eunucl&s of men, and there be eunuchl
tJJhtch have made themselves.eunuchs for the kmgdom of
1U tlu&t is able to receive it, let him rueive it."
The Jewish law, which strictly forbad the making any
sort of cuttings in. the flesh, and allowed not an eunuch
so much as to enter into congregation of the Lord.,•
stands in resistless demonstration of the fact, that these
eunuchs were aliens from the ·commonwealth of Israel, We
have to look then (where we shall assuredly find them,)
to the monks of Egypt, :who practised these excisions, and
whose sac.red books were. none other than the .original,
or first written tale, from which our three first gospels are
derived,t which had oontained the whole gospel story and
system of doctrine as imparted from .India, had been
kept in the secret archives of their monastery, and held
binding on the consciences of all the friars of their monk-
ish ·society, long anterior to the times of Augustus, iD
whose reign, or soon after,· we play suppose the three
evangelists to have been appointed by the Alexandrian
College to give avthentitakd versions of them into the
Greek for the of the more
of monkery. . ·
· It has been said of Origen, that he had written six
fttousand volumes. St. Jerom asserts of him, that he had
written more than any man coUld read. And'it is from
.unwearied pains in reading and writing that
think he .had the name .lldamanliw..:....under which, not
without occasioning considerable perplexity, his. writings
are sometimes quoted. Lardner thus sums up his cha-
racter; "He a capacious mind, and a large compasa
of knowledge, and throughout his whole life was a man
. • Doat. uiii. 1.
t Bucb wu thO opiiUoa or bimlelf.
I'ATHEllS OF 1'RIItD OENTUitY. 381
of unwearied application in studying and composing
works of various sorts. He had the happiness of uniting
different accomplishments, being. at once the greatest
preachel' and the most learned .and voluminous writer of
the age: nor .is it easy to -say which is most admirable,
hi8' learning or.his virtue. In a word, it must be owned,
'that Origen, though not perfect, nor infallible, was
a bright light in the church of Christ, and one of'those
rare personages that have done ·honour to the human na·
ture."• ·
He is undoubtedly the most distinguished personage in
the whole drama of the Christian evidences, nor can acy
man who •believes Christianity to be a blessing to mal,.
kind, have the least hesitation in pronouncing him to have
been one of the wisest, greatest; and best of men, that
was ever engaged in promoting it. .
Nothing is so difficult as•to determine the limits of the
par:t this truly great man has borne in the absolute comti-
t.ulioo of the .Christian .religion. . He is the first. author
whO' has given us a distinct catalogue of the books o( the
New Testament, the first in whose writings such a name
occurs as expressive of such a collection of writings: nor
would any Writings that he had seen fit to reject have ever
conquered thejr way into eanonical authority: nor any
that he has once admitted, have been reJected. If there
be consistency, harmony, or any waere lD those writings
an observance of historical congruity,-the sacred text
Qwes its felicity to the criticisms and emendations of Ori·
gen, who pruned excrescences; exscinded the more glaring
contradictions, inserted whole verses of his own pure in-
and (}9njecture, diligently laboured, by claim- ·
mg forthe wl,lole a mystical andallegorical sense, to rescue
it frot:n the contempt of the wise, and to moderate its ·ex-
citement on the minds of the vUlgar. · · . . ·
. His writings contain the ·finest and adroitest specimens
of under-throwing, that could well adduced; they are a
sort cif looking glass, in which either wise or simple will
be sure to see the face he likes best. The all-adoring and
all-digesting believer, may read his six thousand volumes
and never be startled out of the brown study of Christian
orthodoxy,-the reader who hath once to snuffhis
candle he reads, will ever and anon perceive that Ori-
gen never played the fool, but once. ·
• Lerclaer, i. p. ll8. ·
Dig•tizcd by Google
88! '. I'ATBIUll OJ' .TRE 'I'RI&D CE!n'URY.
His .character needs only the· apology.which human
nature Glaims for every ·man-his Bitt.lanon. He was in
every sense of the word a master spirit-a civilized being
among the wild men of the woods. There is no occasion,
however, to act on Dr. Lardner's avowed principle of
facts to promote piety:".• . lt is not ·to be
denied, that this wisest;greatest; best that ever.bore the .
Christian name, relapsed'at last into Paganism-publicly
denied his Lord and-Master, Christ, and did -sacri-
fice unto idols. · I find that Eusebius as well as Lardner,
has omitted all mention of this grand and glorious fact ;
and but for the avowed intention of Dr. Lardner to pro-
m«e true piety, I should have considered his not finding
it in Eusebius, .an for the omission. It is t6 be.
foU.nd, however, in Origen's own writings, confirined
in his life, in the (}reek of Suidas. His dolorous lamen-
tation and repentance . after this outrageous .apostacy,
ptesents us with the most authentic, and at the eaq1e
time most demonstrative view of the interier character of
the most primitive Christianity ; ·and must satisfy those
who dreaqt of a state of at any time before
the Protestant Reforina.tion, when what are called the
principles of the. Reformation were the principles of
Christianity, how grossly their Protestant teachers have.
deceived them.
· The tlolorotia pf OrigM.
" In bitter affiiction ·and ·grief of .mind, I address·
myself unto them which .hereafter shall , read me thus
confoundedly. But how can I speak with tongue tied,.
with.throat dammed up, and lips that refuse their oilice.
I fall to the ground on my bare kuees and make this my
·humble prayer and supplication_ unt6 aU the saintS, that
they will help. me,· silly wretch that am,.who by reason
of the superfluity of my sin, dare not look up unto God.
Q ye saints of the blessed Godl with watery eyes and sod-
den cheeks soaked in grief and pain, I beseecll to .fall
down before ·the mercy-seat of God, for me nuserable
shiner. Woe is me, because of the sorrow of ·my heart!
Woe is me, for the affiiction of my soul. . Woe is me, 0
my mother, that ever thou broughtest me forth, an heir of
the kingdom of God, but ·now become an inheritor of the
kingdom of the Devil; a perfect man, yea a priut; yet
• Lardur, veL i: p. n•
Dig,tizcd by Google
OJ' t'RE O!UftURI'. 33S
found wallowing in. impiety; a man beautified with hon-
our and dignity, yet in the end blemished with ignominy
and shame; a burning light, yet forthwit.h darkened; a
running fountain, yet bye and ·bye dried up; 0 who will
give streams of tears unto nnne eyes, that I may bewail
my sorrowful plight: 0 my lost priesthood! 0 my di!-
honoured I'ninistry; -o all you, my friend!, tender my
case!• Pity mE!, 0 all ye; my friends, ·in that I have
now trodden foot the seal and cognizance of my.
profession, and league with the devil! . Pity me,
0 Je, my .friends, in that I am rejected and cast away
from the face of .God. It is for my lewd life that I am
.thus polluted, and noted with open shame. Alas, how
am I fallen. 'Alas, how· am I thus oome to nougltt!
There is PO sorrow comparable unto my lk>rrow; there
is no aftliction that exceedeth my afiliction; there is no
lamentation more lamentable than mine; neither is there
any .sin greater than my sin; and there is no saltte for
me. Alas! 0 father Abraham! ·intreat for me, that I be
not cut off from thy coasts. Rid me, .0 Lord, from the
roaring lion! The whole assembly of saints doth make
intercession unto thee for me. The whole quire of an·
gels do entreat thee. for me. Let down upon me thy ·
Holy Spirit, that with his fiery C)Ountenanoe he may put
·to flight the crooked fiends of the devil! Let.me be re-
ceived again into the joy of my God, through the prayers
and interce88ions of the saints, through the earnest pe-
titions of the Church which eorroweth over me, and
h1;1lllbleth herself unto Jesus Christ; to whom, with the
Father and the Holy Ghost, be all glory and honour, for
· ever and ever.' Amen."· So far Origen. · .
· I have abridged this intolerably tedious farrago, without
breaking a single sentence, or changing or supplying one
word not authorized by the original text.
The mO!!J't of 8,11 the works of Origen is
his celebrated answer to Celsus, contained in eight books,
and from which, it is a very usual though an wifair thing
to 888UIIle that we have what ought to be considered as
• So abeolutely primitive is tbe RoiiWl'Catbolic Clnarcb, even in the 11101t u-
. ceptionable of ita practicee, &bat we 'have here, the ·Wiry form of words in wbieb,
to tbla day the benefit of ma11e1 and praye111 for the 10ula In purgatory, is Wrmally
Nqullllted, ali I bav& seen them ock up on tbe walls of their eliapela, in lrel&nd:
and in honellt' truth it mlllt be infinitely more l'llllllOnable to pray to the eaintB, wbo
OUIIMilvea, may be tDheedkd ·to 0111' p'lirpolel, tban to God, who il JliOo
-nl7 imma&able, aDd inuorable..
· Dig,tizcd by Google
·SS4 I'A'I'HI:RB O'F THE THIRD CENTURY.
the sentiments of Celsus. · The exceeding intolerance of
Christians ·against the Writings of the enemies of tbeir
faith; the fact of the destruction · of:such as they did
write; and the substitution of such· as Christians them-
selves wrote and fatheretl upon them, in order to make
. them aeem to have made none'other than such objections
ae were either trifling and wenk in themselves, or could
be most triumphantly answered, shonld ·stand in bar of
all reckoning upon Origen's report ·of,Celsus's objections.
The .historieal value of this important d04}ument is pre-
cisely this: it is a certificate to us·of _what the evidences
of Christianity were at the time of its date, in reference
to suck objections as were willing to
admit that it :was liable to; that is, it, in!jtructs us
Christiane thought that th.eir adversaries could not but
'think of them. I subjoin a continuous specimen of this
celebrated piece, freely'availii)g myself of Bellamy's trans-
lation; though Origen's Greek is_ in so lucid and
easy, that hardly any-transla:tor could mislead us. .
.ORIGEN's ANSWER TO CELSUS,
1.-".Then asserts that Ju-
dalsm, w1th whwh the Chr1stian rehg10n has a very ·etose
connexion, has all along been a -sect, tllough he
prudently forbeare to reproach the Christian religion, as if
it were,of a mean and unpolished originaL"
Ch.apttr Now let us see ho'w Celsus reproaches the
prilttical part ·of our religion, as containing nQthing but
what 111e have ii;l common with the heathens, nothing that
itt new or truly To this l answer, that they who
bring down the JUSt judgments of God upon them, by their
notorious crimee, would never suffer b.y the hand of divine
·a:nd inflexible justice, if all not tolera-
ble notions of moral good and evil.'' . ·
Chapitrs 8 and 4.-J.l cwriour but. idlt alltgory -
upon the 8Cory
of the golden. calf. . . ·· _ ·
Ch.apter 5.-" Then Celsus., speakbtg of idolatry, does
advance .al!- argument that tends to justify and
commend our practice. Therefore endeavouring to show
in the sequel-of his_discourse, that our notiQn of image-
worship was not a discovery that-was owing to the Scrip-
tures, :but that we have it in common with the heathens;
he quotes a passage in Heraclitus to this ·
"To this I answer, that since I have· already
that some common notions of good and evil are onginally
Dig,tizcd by Google
FATHERS OF THi! THIRD CENT.URY.. 386
implanted in the minds of men, we need not wonder that
Heraclitus and others, whether Greeks or barbarians, have
publicly acknowledged to the world, .that they held tpe
very same notions which we maintain," ' .
. Chapter 6.-l' Then Celsus . says, that all the· power
which the Christians was owing to the names of cer-
tain_ demons, .and their invocation of them. But this·.is 'a
most notorious calumny. For the power which the Chris-
tians had was not in the least owing to enchantments, but
to their pronouncing the name I. E. S. U.S., and making
mention of some rem8l'kable occurrences of his life. Nay,
the name of I. E. S. U. S. has such power over demons_,
that sometimes it has proved effectual, though pronouilceq
by very wicked persons."* · .
Chapter 7.-Celsus being represented to have. objected•
that -christ was a. very wicked man, and wrought his
miracles i?Y the'power of m11gic, Origen answers: ·
" Though we should grant that 'tis difficult for us to
determine precisely by what power our Saviour wrought
his miracles, yet 'tis very plain that the Christians made
use of no Unless, indeed, the name
I. E. S. U. S., and s01he passages of the Holy Scriptures,
were a kind of sacred spell." · .
Chapter this Chapter, Or.igen admits. that there
were some Aac.&NA IMPERII, or ·
state secrets, which are
not fit to be communicated to the vulgar; and justifies·the
fact; froin the ,secret doctrines of the.Pagan philosophy.
· ·. Chapter 9.-Presents nothing bearing on Christian evi•
dence.
• The prevalence of tbls per811118ion. is. implied ui the very fair bargain
poposed by Simon Maga8, who, •• t.Dhen lle ·tatD that through laying on of
the .llpottlu.' handt tile Hoiy Ghori fPat gi11en, tltem money, tay-
Gi11e me alto thit potDer, that on wlwmtoe11er I· lay handt, he mo.y
eri11e the'Holy Gho1t." (Acts viii. 19.) And in the falal experiment of the aev-
ea ions of Seeva, attempted to deal toith tile Dm1, without aened
a regular apprentieesbip-Jenu I knotD, mafl Pll'fl.l I knDto, said the
.. but tDho are you1" (Acts m. 15.) It is directly II8IIQ11ed by tbefqrmal pro-
damation of St. Peter, ''Be it k1Wt1Jn unto you all;.that by tile name of Ietut
Ohrilt of doth thil man ttand ltere before you·t.Dhole; for
u none otlter name under hecJ!len in tDhiel we ought to be •avecJ,--•• • lu
· It is a more - curious qudratare·with this, and m1111y 'other
. plll88pS to the like. effect. that the name and even the Je..u· Qlarilt
of Nazareth is worshipped in the C.tbolic.church, distinctly fi'QIII all relation to
any peniOn wbateve(, as an independent charm and in the mystical
combination of the Ieuers themselves, like the AuaACADA)IJU. of the
the 8HEM HEMOPHORESH; of the Jews, and the0PE:8: Sl:tiAME of the Arabi-.
11118. God forbid it ahonld be thought to have had no more Ulan thiasoJ'I. of tali.-
manic virtue, in its eternal repetitions at the close. of oar Protestant praJWI, ·
" Juw Ohritt our Lord," which ought always to be chanted!
886 J!'.A.TBEas OJ' .THE THIRD CENTURY.
Chapter 10.-'-" And Celsus continues his discourse, and
advises us to embrace no opinioas but under the conduct
of. impartial reason, on acco-unt of.the many and gross
errors t9 which the contrary practice will shamefully and
unavoipably expose us. And he compares those peraons
w:ho take up any notions without examination, to the
designing priests of Mithras, Bacchus, Cybele, Hecate, or
any other mock deity of the heathens. : ·For as these im-
postors, having·once got the ascendant over the common
peoplet who were grossly ignorant, could turn and wind
these si}Jy cattle, as their interest or fancy might direct,•
so he says, the very same thing.was known to.be the com-
mon pr11ctice. of the . · .
In answer to this really f01;midable objection, instead of
producing distinct historical testimony to demonstt:ate that
the history of Jesus Christ rested on rational and co_
nvinc-
ing evidence,' and could not therefore be fairly put on a
level with the legends of those mock deities, that
never had ·any existence but in the conceit of theirdeluded
worshippers, Origen difenils :and justifies the self-
same principle of faith, from which !ill those fabu-
lous legends and mock deities derived their authority, and
proceeds...,- · ' .
"A vast numbex: of persons who have left those horrid
debaucheries in which they formerly wallowed, and have
professed to embrace the Christian religion, shall reooive
a bright a:nd massy crown when this·frail and short life is
ended, though t_
hey don't stand to examine the'grounds on
which their faith is built, nor defer their conversion till they
a fair opportunity and capacity to apply themselves
to rational anq learned studies. And since our adversaries
are.continually making such a stir about out taking·things
on trust,t l answer, ·that.we, who see plainly and have
found the vast advantage that.the common people do man-
ifestly and frequently reap make up by far
the greater number}-4 say, we (the Christian clergy),who
are so well advised of these things, do professedly teach
men to believe without a severe.examination.''
• Surely this ebjeetion ofCelsas, u to have been made by him, by hill
advenary, is a proof that he wu a wise ant'good man, and never did or wollld
have abut bis mina evideMe, or .have hardened liis heart aphwt eonvietioa.
It is impossible that sueh a man should have rejected CbriBtiaaity, had it ill
his'days pCIIIIelllled historical and rational evMieneee. · .
t So! so!-So! so! Aad this, it seems, wu the «rievaooe &om the firR. Tile
beatheml wanted rational evidence for Chriltianity; but CbriltiaDI eoulcl JIOt p:o-
. dueeit! . -.
Dig•tizcd by Google
I'A'l'BEBI C)r TBE ,TBIBD Cl:ln'UBT. 33'7
Clt.aptw I have this to say further to the Gree'b.
who won't believe that our Saviour was born of a Virgin ;
that the Creator of the world, if he pleases can make every
animal bring forth its young in the same wonderful man-
ner.• As for instance, the vultures which I_)ropagate their
kind in tim uncommon way, as the best wnters of natural
history do acquaint us. What absurdity is there then in
supposing, that the all-wise God, designing to bless man-
kind witn an extraordinary and truly divine teacher,
should so order matters, that our. blessed Saviour should
.not be born in the ordinary way of human generation."
The work of Celsus, which Origen thus refutes, appears
to have been entitled TBE Tl\UE WQRD, or the True
LJgoa, written at least one hundred years before the time
of Origen. · ·
u Celsus and Porphyry," says Chrysoetom, "are euffi:.
cient witnesses to the antiquity of the scriptures; for 'I .
presume they did not oppose writings which had been
published since their own times."t This writer, however,
chooses to forget that it is not true that we are iri posses-
sion evidence· ofCelsus and Porphyry. Nor would
evidence of the antiquity of the scriptures afford any pre-
sumption that they were written by the persons to whom
they are ascribed ; while the presumption remains, that
they are actually too ancient, and were, as to their general
and contents, in being before the life-time of those
persons. .· ·
Dr. Lardner pronouilcett this answer of Origen to Celsus
u an excellent perfonnance, greatly esteemed and celebrat-
•Fmm thil ...... f.hat.tbe holy Virp laid aug'; dlat oar ble..
lid 8a'rioarliloiiJd rather be aid to 'been WcMd thaD b.,... Tbi - il
r.tber aappc)rted by the UIIII'1IDC8 of ICI'ipture, that the male agent In hill
r-atioa,-wu, "In bodily ebape like a do'e."-Mark i. 10,1obo i, 32. Read,
U.O, with awf'al nm.eaoe.-that u.pict.ellimoay " TM &ly Gltolt thaU come
tiJI6" tAle, tmtl tAl pWJer qftAI tlterefore,
.Z,o, that Aoly thiftg (ot.erve, it il not aid child or babe, holy thing,)
vlaieA •la411 be km'of'tMt, 11\aU be called tM Son of God.••-Luke i. 85.
lliltoa thil• the peca1iar fiuaedoa ofthe H!)ly Spirit, who
1at brooding on tbe vut abJII.• ·
And llllldil k prepaat."-Paratlite Lott, Book i.
Alld • it 111ipt iD Nlaliea to thil adorable mystery, the Jaiah ulal,
"Who ... ,_.uon ?" Ch. liii. v. 8. I abhor no Ullpie&y more ,.
f'ectionately tbaa that ofoar Unitariia tbe moet i!lcollfliltent, the IDOl& ..-
PIIttbe IDOl& ablald ofa:D 10pbiatl, who beeitue not at the moet aadaciou bl-
pbemiel upoa tbe IIIJ8llcal inctmatioa, aad per.- Chrilt • a naert
- · .,.... 1111111*' to piOdace 10 undl u pzeoe. ejdaer·ICripewal .,
Jailtorical,tiaat aayiii!Ch .mere lllllll ever ailt.ed at alL · · · ·
t LlniDer, iv. p.-114. . . . .
so ·
Dig,tizcd Google
888· FATHUS '01' THE THIRD
ed, not only by Eusebius and Jerom1 but likewise by many
judicious men of late times, by Dupin, who
says, 1hat it is polite, just, and methodical ; ilot only the
best work of Origen, but the completest and best written
apology for the Christian religion, which the·ancients have
left us." ·
, .
ST. ,GREGORY, Thaumaturgus, A. D. !48.
. .· · Biskop of ·_
I 'cannot present the reader with fairer grounds of_
judging of the whole worth and value of the.evidences of
the Christian religion, than by laying before him what
those evidences will req¢re him to.believe of the charac-
ters and .actions of the most remarkable ,personages con-
cerned in its establishment and propagation. This I do,
in none other than the lines and colours, the showing and
acknowledgments, their own representations in their own
words, not of the humbler and feebler advocates of Chris-
tianity, but of such as Christians themselves with justice
and reason boast of, as the best, discreetest and ablest
defenders their. cause ever had. .If Dr. Lardner could
not have given a· just and fait}:_lful representation of ·what
the evidenceS of the Christian religion-really were, or has
not done s.o ; whoon earth shall proposed as worthier
of all acceptation ? If on his representation it shall appear
that Christianity rests ultimately and strietly on miracu..
lous evidence, and on the probability of a continuous se-
ries of divine interpositions and interferenoes of the al-
might:J power of God, not merely at first to promulge, but
afterwards t9 propagate and continue this ·supernatUral
intimation of his will to man ; what right or reason have
our Unitarian divines to give t'Remselves insolent airs of
philosophical a8surance, or to ·affect to treat. those who
reJect miraculous evidence,.. as if they could n9t do so
Without rejecting historical fact and rational probability at
the·same time ? · ' ·
ST. GREGORY; Bishop ofNeo<ltesareain-Pontus, was one
of Origen's most noted scholars: It is fit we ,should now. •
have a more pilrticular history .of this reno-\vned con-
vert and bishop, of the best.times or near thelll, who -
is usually called Tisaumaturgus, -or ·the Wonder-worker,
_ o,9,tizcd by Google
rATHERS or THE. THIRD CENTURY. . 339
for the many and great miracles wrought by him.• Gre-
gory'll parents were Gentiles.-" As soon M Origen saw
Gregory (when a youth), his brother Athenodorus, he
neglected no means to mspire them with·a love of philo-
sophy, as a foundation of true religion and piety.t Of
Origen they learned logic, physics,·geometry, Mtronomy,
ethi08. · He encouraged t)lem in reading of all sorts of
ancient authors, poets, and philosophers, whether Greeks
or barbarians; them from none but.such as de-
nied a Deity or a Provxdence, from whom no possible
advantage could be obtained.'.' From Gregory of Nyssa,
in Cappadocia, who ftourished about a htindred .years
after this Gregoty Thaumaturgus, Dr. Lardner transcribe$
the most material things of his life. 'Nyssen says, that
Gregory studied secular learning for some'time at Jllez..
...rna, where there was a great resort of youth .from all
parts for the sake of philosophyand medicine. Our young
Gregory was even then distinguished bf the sobriety and
discretion which appeared in his conduct. uA lewd wo-
man having been employed by some· idle people to dis-
grace him by ·indirect but impudent insinuations, his
reputation was· :vindicated in ·a remarkable manner, for
the woman was immediately seized with such horrible
fits, M demonstrated them to be a judgment of heaven : ·
nor was she relieved from the.dmon that had taken pos-
eession of ller; till Gregory had interceded with God for
her, and obtained the pardon of her fault." Thl8·miracl4
occurred while Gregory was yet a heathen-" his family
·was. rich and noble.'' ordination to the
Christian :niinistry, it seems, took place even before .his
conversion toChristianity. "Phedimus, BishopofAmasea,
knowing worth of this young man, and being grieved
that a person .ofsuch accomplishments should live useless
in the:world, waa desirous to consecrate him to God and
hie chureh ;"· but " Gregory wasshy of such a charge, and
industriously concealed bitriself from the bishop, whose
.. .
• Ludasr, vol.. i. p. 24.8. I pwaetiliollli;r sive ,the words or Lardner, that the
aee with wbat a grace this rauonal &ciman grapples with miracl•
wbieh be cannot believe, and due not deny. . ·
t This philo1ophq, which we meet with at every turn, as always eo111titutiJ!s
the baril orthe Christian religion ; this .lllezandria; always the C9'Dtre ud nor-
illy or thil pbilOIOphy ; or lazy pedaDtl iia univenities, where
YOIDK meo are \Go be traifted, and broken in wthe buin-. of becomiJJ&
lora tbemaelv• in tbeir turn, are matters, at the least infinitely 81llpllCtable. Hou-
needed them! Compare p. 814 and 819, in thil Dn:o&tlt. Jllltia,
ll*o l:c. aD prore.cn in like IIIIIDD9l' ofdlil Edectio pbil010pby.
Dig•tizcd by Google
'
S40 . r.a.THEB.S ·Ol' 'I'H'K THIRD c1:Ift1nu-.
design he was aware of.- At length, Phedimus, tired of
his fruitless attempts to meet Gregory,· and being blessed
with the .gift of consecrated·him to God,
. bodily absent,. him also t!ll
· that bme wae so addicted to 1dolatry, .that m 1t, and m
all the country 'round about, there were not above seven-
teen believers. ·GI'egQry was then di&tance·ofthree
days He only desired of by ·whom he had
been ordained, a. short time to prepare himself for the
office, nor had he courage to undertake the work of
preaching,. till he had been informed ·of the truth,by reve-
lation. And while he. was engaged ·in deep
he had a magnificent and· awful vision iil his chamber.'.' I
The Virgin Marj, and St. John the beloved disciple, ap- · .
·to· Min, " encompassed also by a bright lia'ht too
strong for . him to look upon directly. ·He hew theee
persons discourse tOgether about the doctrines in which
he desired to be informed, 'and he. pereeived who they
were, for they c8lled each other by nakne ; andthe Virgin
desired that John the Evangelist wouldteach that young
man the .Mystery of Pitty, and he replied, that he was not
unwilling to do what was desired by the mother of our
Lord. John then gave the·instruction he which,
when they had .disappeared, Gregory 'wrote down. Ao-
cording to tlatJt ·faith he always preached ; and left it with
his chlll'ch 8fJ an invaluable· treasu,re, by which mea.ns his
people from that time to this, were preserved &om all he-
retical pravity." ·, · · · · .
Then fbllows the stupendous miracle;which I find quot-
ed in Middleton's Free Inquiry, which I here abridge as
much as pOBBible :-. · · . : · ·
· The holy Greg9ry,"in travelling. to take ·poase88ion of
his bil!!hopric, wtis overtaken by a storm and .benighted,
so that for he was obliged to .spend the night in
one of the heathen temples ; in consequence of which,
when the pries,t came to perform their idolatrous rites the
next' mori1i:D.g, "·he was answered by the demon, that he
could no more appear in that place, beeause of him who
. had lodged the foregoing The greatly
enraged at this, ·pursued .and threatened to
inform the magistrates against ·him ; but Gregory told the
priest, God had given·him such power, thfK
" he could expel demons from any place and re-admit them
as he saw fit: and as a demonstration of such power, he
took a slip of paper and wrote upon it the worda ' Grepry
I
,
I'A.THERS or THE THiai> CENTURY. 341 .
to Enter!' This paper being laid .upon the altar,
and the aecustomed Paganish rites.performed, the demon
appeared.as usual; which so convinced the Pagan priest
of the superior power possessed by Christian.s, that he
left the service of Satan, and became a minister of
Christ, and was afterwards one of Gregory's deacoris.-
But some doubts still remaining, Gregory wrought another
eviderit miracle-at his command a large heavy stone lying
before them, moved as if it had life, and settled itself in.
the place Gregory directed."· · ·
Again, were two brothers .at variance with eaeh
other, whom Gregorycould by no means reconcile.
certain lake was the matter in dispute. When they' w.ere.·
about to decide .the cause by arms, Gregory went to the·
lake the night before, and at his prayers it was dried up ;
so that there was no lake left for them to contend for.
Again:-" The river· .often overflowing, to the
great damage of the neighbouring country, at the desire of
the people who suftered by its inungations, Gregory pre-
scribed its properlimits, which it neverpassed
" Afterhis ret.urn to Neocresarea, Gregoty cured a young.
man of a demon ; and a great many people were
delivered from demons, and released of their .diseases by
only having a piece of linen brought to them, which had
been breathed upon by him." .
After these, and several other marvellous relations of
the same sort, anq some trifting objections started against
them, it is of importance that the reader should be aware,
that it is none other than the judicious and learned Dr.
Lardner 'himself, who is driven to the distress of having tO
say- · · · · ·
"I do not intend to deny thllt Gregory wrought mira.:.
cles ; for I suppose he did, as f shall acknowledge more
particularly by and bye. Nevertheless, there is· no harrri
in making these remarks, if they are just, or in showi_ng
that Nyssen's relations are defective, and want some
tokens of credibility with which we should havei been ,
11 mightily pleased." · ·
· Gregory's works are, a panegyrical oration in praise of
Origen, pronounced in 289, still extant, and unquestion-
ably his. Dupin says that it is yery eloquent, and that it
may be reckoned ·one of the finest pieces of rhetoric in all
antiquity-a paraphrase of the book of Ecclesiastes, and
that self-same ereed or copy of the faith which we _may .
so-
• Dig,tizcd by Google
342 OF THE THIRD CENTU&J:.
he copied immediately from the dictQ.tion of St.
Joh·n. · · · · ·
· ''His history, asdelivered authors of the fourth and
following centuries, particularly. by Nyssen; it is to be
feared, .bas in it somewhat of fiction ; but," addsDr. Lard- .
ner-(yes;·they are the very of Lardner himself)-
" there can be no doubt made but he was very
· successful in malrlng converts to Christianity in the coun-
try of Pontus, about the middle of the third century ; and
that beside his natural and acquired abilities, he was
favoured with extraordinary gifts of the spirit,and wought
miracles ofBt&rprising pOt.Der. The plain and express testi-
monies of Basil and others, at no great distance of time
and place from Gregory, must be reckoned sufficient
grounds'of credit with regard to these things.. The eztra..
ordinary gifts ofthe spirit had .not then entirely ceased ; but
Gregory was favoured with such gifts'greatly beyond the
common of other Christians .or bishops at that
season. Yet, as St. Jerom intimates, it is likely that he
was more famous f<>r his signs and w:onders than hiS wri-
tings."* . . .
With respect to Gregory's appointing anniversary festi-
vals and solemnities in bono'!lr of the' martyrs of his dio-
cese, (as I have already given the important passage from
Mosheim, in the chapter of, Admissions,t) Dr. Lardner
oontends against it, that he is " unwilling to take tl$
pru;ticular upon the creditof Nyssen; because thfschildish
method of.making converts appears unworthy of so wise
and good a man as Gregory. Nor is it likely that those
festiyals should be by one tDho had the gift of
miracles, and therefore a much better way ofbringing men
to and virtue."· See all these pa813ages, purporting
to be from Dr. Lardner1simmortalwork on the Credibility
ofthe Gospel History, in his first volUme, Iinder the article
St..Gregory of Neocreshrea. I have this Life of
Pope Gregory the Wonder-worker, not so much to show
the picture as the paintel' ; and to,set before my readers
a demonstration of the important and consequential fact,
that the ablest and most rational advocate of Christianity,
is, jn its vindication, driven on the necessity of using a
sort oflanguage which·, on any other theme than that, he
• Hia wri.tiJip are DOt to' be dilparapl, lllilce they.aft'onl the clalll'el&
ofthe aenuin- of bis m,iraclee, by proviDe that he WM no conjuror. ·
t See Dlll:c,Jluze, p. 48. · .
Dig,tizcd by Google
FA"THERB OF 'J'Hijl' 1l1IRD Clll'fTURY. 848
would have been ashamed of. We see the most eminent ·
of all writers on the Christian evidences, driven. to the
God-help-us of subscribing to a belief in the most ridieulous
and contemptible miracles, rather than he will accept,
.even from his own authorities, the clear and natural solu-
tion of the difficulty-even that he· who was ordained a
Christian bishop, while yet he continued a Pagan, should
have owed his succesS' in converting others to the same·
slide-the-butcher system which had been so successfully prac-
ticed on himself; that is, letting themcontinue Pagans al1
the while, only calling them Christians. .
From the short notice which Socrates has of this Fath-
er, it should seem that the Holy Ghost was somewhat pre-
mature in his gifts to Gregory, si:nce he got possession of
the power of working miracles before he beeame a convert
to the Christian fa.ith : " being yet a layman, he wrought ·
many miracles, he cured the sick, chased away ·devils by
.his epistles, and converted the -Gentiles and Ethriics unto
the faith, not only with words, brit by deeds of a far greater •
force.'"'* · · · .
ST. CYPRIAN, A. D. 248.
Biskop of Carthage. -
Ccecilius Cyprianus was an African, Who wae
oonve+ted from Paganism to Christianity, in the year 246,
and·suffered IWlrtyrdom in .the. year 258. So that the
greatest part of his life wasspent in heathenism. Cyprian
_
had a estate, which he sold .and gave to the poor
immedi.ately upon his conversion. His advancement to
the highest offices of the church was !!ltrikingly .rapid ;
he was made presbyter the ·year after his conversion? and
bishop of Carthage, the year after .that. And let It not
seem invidious 1o state, what inay,_ be a .truth,
in the words Qf Dr. Lardner himself, "·The estate which
Cyprian had sold for the beneh.t of the poor, was by some
favourable providence_ restored to. him again." lie was
bishop of a most flourishing chw:ch, the metropolis of a
province, and neither in fame nor fortune a loser by his
conversion.
Th.ere 'can be no just to disparage the renow:ri ,
of his : whwh though unquestionably dis--
• Socra&elScbolut.lib. 4, c. 22.
Dig•tizcd by Google
34, FATHERS OF THE THIRD CENTURY.
graceful'to the government un4er .
which it happened, was ·
not attended with any of those.aggravating circumstances
of childish cruelty, which throw· an air of suspicion over ·
almost all the other narratives of martyrdom, that have
' come down to us. Cyprian had rendered .himself obnox-
ious to the goverrunent under which he had long enjoy-
ed his episcopal dignity iii peace and safety ;• .and 1t is
impossible not to see from the intolerant turbulence of his
character, his ambition, and inordi,nate·claims
of more than hwnan· authority ; that ·more hw:.nan.
patience would have .been required on the part of any
on.earth, to have brooked the eternalclash-
Iags of the 'clvil administration with his euperior
authority over of the subjects of the ·empire.
He. had been tw1ce barushed, .and recalled,
aQ.d reinstated in his possessions and ·dignities, but again
·and again persisting iri holding councils and assemblies,
and enacting decrees, in ·defiance and •actual 10licitation of
mar.ttrdom, he was judicially sentenced to be
·upon whieh, he exclaimed, God be thanked, and suffered
accordingly, on the 14th o( September,' i)! .the year 258.
As his own historians tell the his execution. was at-
tended with no additional circumstance of cruelty, anger,
or indignation, but occurred amidst the sympathy of his
Cl).ristian friends, and the admiration and regret even of
those whom a sense of public duty had enforced to_con-
denin hilll. " It is needless," St. Jerom, ''·to give a
catalogue of .his works, they are brighUr than the BUR."
St. Austin calls him a .martyr, 'and there
be no doubt that he has as :good .a claim, as any other
tyrant who ever expiated his tyranny in the same
_to that title: · 1 .
• " The coostitutioD,ofevery cJnuclr in th0!18 timee. wu,a
pered monarchy. The bishop was the moDaroh, and the presbytery was his aen-
.ate."-Prindples of the Cypriank age, by John Sage, a ScottUh billlqp.
1'· 82. " Cyprian earned his spiritual authority to sUch a pitch, as to claim
the rigbt of pntting his rebelliQWI and nnruly deacon to deatb."-:lbUI. p. 33.
Snrely here· was canse enongb to induce'any go.vernment, to call aach a traitor to
some sortof reckoning ! · . ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
I'J.'I'IRBI OJ''TBJC J'OUMB CKRTUiLY. 845
. ' CHAPTER XLIII. .
t'BJD I'ATRElt.S OJ' THE FOU&Tii fJENTtrlt.Y.
--·
. 'CONSTANTINE, A• .D. '8()6, .
Ta& cli&racter with whom, next to Origen, it most COD•
cerns the Christian inquirer to be acquainted, is the
emperor.Constantine the Great, under whose reign and
auspices, Christianity ·became the established religion,
and but for whom, as far as human probabilities can be
calculated, it never would have come down to u.s. ·
CoNsTANTINE, called the Great, fiOD of .FlaviUs Vale-
rius Conli!tantius, sUrnamed and Helena, was
born the 27th of February, in the year of Christ 27.t, ·
or as some think, in .278, or as others, in 274, was con-
verted to the Christian'· religion on the night of the 26th
of October, A. o. 312, became sole emperor both of the
East and West, about the year 8.24, reigned about thirty-
one years froiQ. the death of his father, Constantius ; and
died on. Whitsunday, May .22d, 348_,• Felicianus and
',i;'atian being consuls, the seoond year of the two hundred.
and Olympiad, iD. the sixty-sixth year of
his .f . . .
bearings.on the evidences of the Christian rell0on
demand from us-thai we should infom:l ourselvee Qlthe
.oharaoter of this great hero of the cause, ·
· 1.·As drawn by Christian historians and divines,
2. As appearing in the incontrovertible evidence of ad·
mitted facts, .
tt. The ostensible motives of his conver$ion, · ·
4. The evidences of the Christian religion ·as they ap-
pe_ared to him.· . . · · . ..
·l. "I do, by DO means," says'Dr. Lardner, "think that
Constantine was a .man ·of cruel· di8position.-(p. S42.)
Though there may have been so.me transactions in his ·.
reign which cannot be easily justified, and others that
m\18t be condemned : yet we are not to consider Constan-
tine as a cruel prince or a bad man."f
• Ludner'1 Credibility, voL .ii. p. 811.
f Soa-atee ScbotutieUI, bib. i. C. 26.
t S.·ID1 14th letter ftom·Oakham pllbliihed iD the let. ad ld. of
. . ' I
/ ' . \
846 l'.lTBB&s Ol' TRE ·poua'l'll cEtrTuar..
" Constantine was remarkably tall, of a comely and
majestic presence, and great bodily strength.• It may
be concluded, ,from the whole tenor. of his that he
was a person of·no mean capacity. Ip.deed, his mind was
,equal to his fortune, great as it was, his·ehastity,t togeth- ·
er with his valour, justice, and prudence·, is commended
by heathen -
; his acts of bounty to the
poor, and his just edicts, are arguments of a merciful d..i&-
position and a of justice. ' J{e was, moreover, a
siqcere of the Christian religion, of which he,
first of all the Roman emperors, made _an open profes-
sion. · · ·
"In a word, the.conversion of Constantine to
ity was a favour ofdivine providence, and C>f great advan-
tage to the Gpristians, and, . reigD. may 'be reckoned a
blessing tp·the Roman empire on the whole." Thus far,
Dr. Lardner.+ . · · ·
. I find no directly draWn. character of Constantine in the
.Ecclesiastical History of Socrates ·Scholasticus, except
thB:the us, in ·general that " Constantine the
fixing his whole mind upon such things as set
forth the glory of .God, behaved himself in all things 'as
becometh a Christi.a,n·, erecting churches from the ground,
and adQrning them with goodly and gargeous consecrated
ornaments: moreover, shutting up the temples of the
. and the :wo.rld (in way·of
r1s1on) the gay Images. gu'ttermg Withm them."§ · In his
and. as -this Con-
stantme entitles himself " the pmssant, the nughty, and
llQbJe and in the synodical epistle of the Coun-
cil of Nice, he is .called ." the most virtuous·emperor, the
moat godly emperor, Constantine."!! · .
. The pages of the historian ·Evagriu's, who
had been ·one of the'emperor's lieutenants, are· eiilivened
with a truly evangeUcal invective against the Ethnic Zoe-
irons, in .which no better ilatnes than) " 0 >wicked spirit !
thou fiend ofhell! 0 thou lewd· varlet!" &c.' are found,
for his dared to defame the godly and noble empe-
ror 'If · · ·. .· · ·· ·
· But Eusebius_:who ·would never ·He nor · falsify,
except to promote .the ·glory· of 'God,-the conscitMoul
. • Helena was tbe lawfulwUf! of CoiiBtantiuaCblorus, or only bil COD•
cubine, ia a disputable ·pomt."-Laldner, vol. it p. 322. -· ' · .
t What lias that l9.4o witll it ? ·*Vol. i. p. 845. ·
,§Socrates Sob. Ecel. Hiat.lib. ii. e. 2. II.Soeratell; lib. 1. c. 6.
t' Evapu, lib. iii..c. 4I. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
•AtHERt O• THE tOURTH 347
EU.Sebius Pamphilus, who bas written his life, seems to
know no bounds of exaggeration in his praise. "I am
amazed" (says this veracious bishop, on whose fidelit;y'
all ·our knowledge of ecelesiastical antiquity must
mately depend) " I am amazed, when I contemplate !!UCh
singular piety and Moreover, when I look up
to heaven, and in my J}lind behold his blessed soul living
in God's presence,. there invested (croumed) with a
blessed and unfading wr.eath of immortality ; eonsidering
this, I am oppressed with silent amazement, and -my
makes me dumb, resigning his due encomium to
.Almighty God, who . alone can give to Constantine the
praise he merits." · _
" Constantine alone, of all the Roman .emperors, was
beloved of God, and hath left us the idea of his most pious
and religious life as an inimitable example for other men
to follow, at a humble distance."* · ·
" Constantine was the firflt of all the who
was regenerated by the new birth of baptism, and signed
with the sign of the crof;!S ; and being•thus regenerated,
his mind was so and by the raptures of
faith so transported, that he admired in hims·elf the won-
derful WQrl,t of God : and when the centurions and caP..
tains admitted to his presence, did bewJlil and mourn for
his approaching death, because they should lose so good
and gracioua a prince, he answered them, ' that he now
only began to live, and that' he now onty began to be
sensible of happiness, and therefore, ·he now only desir-
ed to hasten, rather than to slack or stay his passage to
God.'f- . ·
" For he alone of all the Roman emperors did, with
most religious zeal, honour and worship God. He alone,
with great lib&ty of speech, did profess the gospel of
sus Christ. · He alone, did honour his church more than
all the rest. He alone, abQ}ished the wicked adoration 'Of
idols ; and, therefore, he a,one, both in his life and after
his death, hath been crowned with such honours as no one
hath obtained, neither among the Greciaps nor
ans, nor in ·former times, among the Romans. Since no
age bath produced any thing that niight be parallelled or
compared to Constantine."* So much for his praise ! ·
• Tbe ieamedreader will find I take lllme libertiee with the ten, nev• depan..
iDJ, however, from fta sen-but, " an tmmitable ezample f,. all men to fol•
loW," wbichiB the literality, islrilbratbcr thaD panl!fJrlc.
t Lire of Colllltantine, lib. iv. c. 68. *1bi4. lib. iT. c. '15.
1
,uaza• or TB.E rouaTii
II. "MtWdet-, tlwugl& il hoth no tongue, 1DiU speak trill ,.,.
· . miraculotcB organ." ·
The. adulations of interested . sycophants, and the
applause of priests and bishops, will not the more
convincing' evidence of those stubborn things, facti, that
will not be suppressed, and cannot lie. Even Lardner;
who omits entirelY. the circumf!ltances of liggravation, ac-
knowledges the deeds, which give a very ilitferent com':"
plexi0n to Constantine's character, from that, which the
honour of Christianity requires that it should wear. The
hireling voice of I>riestcraft would. extol him to skies.
Nor ought we in JUdging of the worth of a churchman's
panegyric, to forget that even the 'cautious and
, Lardner, who has, without evidence of a single'act of
· wrong against him, branded the amiable and matchlessly
virtuous Jul,ian, as a persecutor, has not one ill word to
spare for the Christian Constantine, who drowned his
unoffending wife, F.unu, in a bath of boiling water, be-
.headed his eldest son, Crispus, in the very year in which
he· presided in the Council of Nice, murdered the two hus-
bands of his sisters Constantia, and Anastasia, murdered
his own'father-in-law, Maximiaa Herculius, murdered his
own nephew, being his sister Constantia's son, a boy only
twelve years old, and p1urdered a few others !"' which
actions, with truly Christia.ri moderation, tells
Ull, " seem to cast a reftution upon him." Among thoie few
others, never be it forgotten, was &Jpata-, the
priest, who fell a ,victim and a martyr to .the sincerity of '
his to Paganism, and to the honesty of his re-
fusing the consolations_
of heathenism to the conscience of
the royal murderer.
"The death of CrispU$, (says Dr. Lardner) is altogether
without any good excuse ; sq likewise is the .death of the
young Licinjanus, who ·could not then be more than a
little above eleven years of age, and appears not·to have
been charged with any fault, and cari hardly be suspected 1
of any Then :why may we not consider Conatantine
•m. bill, an:ucecJ•._thai 1-
Muiailllll • ;. If»wife's father' • - ·. .A.. D. 110
Balaian1111 - -- - HillsiBtAir Anutasia'a hlllbaDd • II-' .
Licinianus - • Hill by CoDitlatiml • - Ill
Fauta· - • - Ilia wife • - - - - 110
Bopate!- - - · Hill former &iead - - • - a1·
LiOUU. ·• - hlllbiDd • ...
. Crilpal - - - HiiOWDIOD .- • - • - ...
B.elilio pejlerit--- atqu·impia facta.-.Lwcrct.lib. 1,-v, 84;
t tua.ir, voL 2, p. Jl42. . .
!
I
P.I.'I'DRI OP 'I'D I'OUaTB CJCl'frUJlY, 849
to haTe been either a cruel prince or a bad man-? " Here
then, (continues Lardner, whoee work is written expressly
to promote pWy a,ad tlirlue,) here lies the general ex-
cuse, or alleviation of these faults; (peccadillou, he means.)
Prosperity is a dangerous state, full of temptation, and
puts men off their guard, and all these.executions happen-
ed very near to one another, when Constantine was come
as it were to the top of his fortune, and was in the great-
est prosperity."" Reader! imagine thou seest his noble
son imploting a father's mercy-but in vain. Imagine
thou his innocent wife supplicating for rather any
other death·at· his hands than that J.llOst horrible one of
the boiling bath-but in vain. Think that thou seest the
poor·uiloffending child upon hie knees, lifting his innocent
hands to . his life, and his most holy uncle will not
regard him. Think that thou hearest the distracted
shrieks of the fond doating mother; the beautiful Constan-
tia, with dishevelled hair and heart-broken moans, en-
treating her brother .to spare her son-but in va,in. Not
a wife's anguish, nor a sister'e tears, nor nearest of kin-
dred, nor woman's tenderness, nor guileless
youth's innocence, could soften the heart of this evangeli-
cal cut-throat, this godly and holy child-killer. Then,
contemplate the coin whi(j} Eusebius tells us was struck
to perpetuate his memory,-" whereon was engraven the
effigies of this blessed man, with a scarf bound about his
head, on the one side, a11d on the other sittingand driving
a chariot, and a handreached down from heaven to receive
and take him up.t" ·
When one finds such a writer as Lardner, (to say
no.thing of the falsifications of Eusebius) thus
ende_avouring to whitewaeh Constantine, because he wae
a ChristitJn emperor, .and to affix on those paragons -of
human virtue, Julian and Marcus Antonius, the guilt of
persecution, merely because they were Pagan emperora,
not only without evidence them, but in contliet
1rith the most irrefragible· proofs that they were 81!1 clear
,from that guilt, as the sun's disk from darkness; it is noC
Jllibei-al to lind the only excuse we can for thesehistoriane,
to blanie their principles rather than themselves, and to
ecmelnde that there is in the strength and
of their religious affection, which suspends in
t r-em.·.Lilt ot CoanntiM, book ... cbap. '78, p. .,••Ill.·
. Sl '
Dig,tizcd by Google
350 J'ATBE.S 8J' 'filE J'Out'l'B·CElt'tV&r• .
them the faculty of pe;ceiving or communicating trutht, act
long as that affection is in its paroxysm.,_.. . -
It is however highly honourable to Lardner, that he has
the generosity to speak in terms of less qualified censure
of:Constantine's intolerance, and to admit that the two
.prevailing evils of his reign, were avarice and hypoerisy.t
" The laws of Constantine against the heathens;" he
acknowledges, " are not to be justified. How Con-
stantine.have a right to prohibit all his subjects from sac-
rificing and worshipping at the temples ? Would he have
liked this treatment, if some other prince had become a
Christian at that time, and ht still remained a ?
What reason had he to think that all men received light
and conviction when he did ? And if they··were not con-
vinced, how could he ·expect that· they should act as he
did.":j:" . . . .
Monsieur Le Clerc justly. observeB, that·" they that
continued heathens were no doubt extremely shocked at.
the manner in which the statues of theirgods were treated,
and could not eoneider the Christiane as men of modera-
tion ; for in short, those statues were as dear to them, as
any thing the most sacred could be to the Christians.§ .
In the form and wording- of Constantine's
edict$, we have specimens of that conjunction of holiness
and blood-thirstiness, religion and murder, which pour-
trays his character with a precision and fidelity that needs i
no lurther illustration.
1. "' Constantine the puisBaftt, tht mightyand noble emperor,.unto
tht bishops, pastors, andpeople vlt.truoectr.
" Moreover we thought good, that if there can be found
extant any work or l>Qok compiled by AJ-ius, ihe 'same
Bhould be burned.to ashes, so that not only his damnable '
doctrine may thereby be wholly rooted out, but also that
no relic thereof may remain unto posterity. .. This also we
command and charge,.that ifany man be found
to hide or conceal any book made by Arius, and not
immediately bring forth the said book, and deliver it up
to be burned, that said offender·for so doing shaU dw
_1M dtalh. · For u soon as he is our pleaBure is;
•• : ,. I • '
• See this deduction in oftbe Adorts 1-.. 6em OU.
Jlaai,in" Tbe Lion?' vol. .
t Lanfaer'• Credibility, voL 2, p. 8411. t p. 144
§ BibL UDiv. t. 11, p. N.
Dig•tizcd by Google j
I'ATHERS OF 1'HE FOURTH 351
that his head be stricken offfrom his shoulders. Godkeep
you in his tuition·."• · ·
Constantine's speech in 1M eounCil eoncerning'peace and conctwtl.
2. " Having by God's assistance, gottenthe vic.tory over
mine enemies, I entreat you. therefore, beloved ministers
of God, and servants of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
to ct4 off the )uads ofthis hydra of heresy, for so shall ye
please both GOd and tnt."t . . . . ·
III. MOTIVES OF CON$TA.NTiNE's CONVERSION.·
.O.s 84!/ hisfritntJB•
. " Consta.ntine the Emperor, being. certified ofthe tyran-
nous government of Maxentius, devised with himself
which way possibly he might rid the Romans from under
this·grievous yoke of servitude, ·and despatch the tyrant
out of life.· Deliberating thus with himself, he forecasted
also what (kd, he were best to call upon for aid, to wage
battle with the adversary. He remembered how that
Diocletian who'wholly dedicated hit11$elfunto the service
of the heathenish.Gods, prevailed nothing thereby ; also
he persuaded himself for certain, that his father Con-
stantius, who renounced the idolatry of the Gentiles; led a
more fortunate life :t mueing thus doubtfully with himself,
and taking his journey with his soldiers, a certain vision
appeared unto·him, as it was strange to behold, so indeed
incredible to be spoken of. About noon, the day·some.-
what declining, he saw in the sky, a pillar of light, in the
form of a cross, whereon was engraved the inscription,
' mtfds·011ercome.' This vision so amazed the emperor,
that be, mistrustinkhisown sight,'demanded of them that
were whether·they perceived the vision, which
when all with one oonsent had affirmed, the wavering
mind of the Emperor, was:settled with· divin.e and
wonderful sight: The night following, JesuJ Christ him-
·self to him, in his sleep, Baying-' Frame to thy-
.«lfthe form ofa cross.afttr 1M example of the sign t11hich appear-
ed untO tfl.u, and buir the same against thy afit lmnner,
or token off1ict0ry.' "§ · ·.
.. In Socraies Scboluticua,lib. I, c. ·e,fol p. 227•.
·t Eu.eeb. Vita CoDSt. lib. 8, c. 12. .
·. t Compare thia with the of.Melito ; and the renlt il, a demoDStratioD...
that or ill luck was all that filmed the claima of Chriltiapity
and ot"Papnillm.-DncG:I:III, P· 820. .
·§ Socrates Eccl. ·Hist. lib. I, c. I. It is to be regretted that .U.0 words of
Cbrillt have not been received into the cation of tbe New Teetameot, 11 it is cer-..
1liDthere are Done t)lereia e9Dtained, of hi&her aatbority. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
SU or 'fa&
· . But let us hear the aooo.unt of ·"that lewd va,Iet."
"that wicked spirit and fiend of hell,"• as Socrates calls
him, the Ethnic ZosimWJ, who to revile.Coiistantine,
and rail at Christians. These fiends of hell make none
the worse 'bistorians, but always contrive to give an air
of ration!U probability to their infernal falsehoods, which
di-\iine truth (being written solely to exercise our faith)
could never pretend to-" This. varlet.goeth
: to defame the godly and noble emperor Constantine, for
he aaith, that·he slew his son Crispus "7 lmMmably ;
that he despatched his wife F
.austa, by shutting her up in
$.boiling bath ; that when he would have had his ,priest
to purge him by sacrifice, of these horrible murthers,
could not have his purpose, (for they had plain..
ly, it lay not in their power to cleanse him), he light-
ed at last upon.aD. Egyptian who came out 9f Iberia, &.lld
being peNuaded by him that the Christian..faith was of
force to wipe away every sin, :were it p.ever so ,heinous,
· embraced willingly all whatever the Egj'ptian told
him."t · . · · · ·
Lardner says this is a false and absurd.story ; and to
it appear to be.so, he renders the text of Zoaimua,
without supplying it.as lisual at the bottom of his
$8 if it had ran, that " Constantine beingconscious to him-
self of bad actions, and also:of the breach of oathsJ
and peing told by priests of bj.s old that there
was .no kind of .purgation suf&cient.to expmte such enor-
mities, he began to hearken to a Spaniard, named lEgyp-
tius, then at Court, :who assured him that the ChriStian
doctrine contained.a promise of the pardon of all manner
of sin." . · . ·
I suspect Dr. Lardner's oopy of of a menda-·
cious.suQ.stitution oftlie words which he renders -
"a ap..
niard named JEgyptiua, Court," .instead of those a'o-
knowledged in the ahd hostile quotation of
Socrates, " that " he met an coming QUt of lbtria,
in order to keep in the ground, as much·as possible,
• Socrates, lib: 8, c. 40, 41. Whea we of thit BOlt, - _, be
nre that eomebqdy.baa been telling the truth. -CoDAilt that holy bl.acqWd,
the Reverend .:Qr. J.P. S. 1111d his Rfdoinder, for the ebaracter of the Alatbor. ·
the bonolll'l of the fisb..market, to the
.:; Ibid. lib. 3, e. aleo the oripal text or ZOsimua to tbii1 d"eet,
m my "8yntagma," p. 112. .
t The holy etDf8lOr bad bo11Dd hilllll4ilfby the moat solemn oath& tO Protect Li-
'einillll, but Blew him notwithstanding. . He bad the example orthe man aft6r GGd'1
own heart to justify t1riB peceadillo, 1 Kings, i4. 8, 9.
. . . •
olg•tizcd by Google
PA.THERS o.- THE FOURTH CEMURT. SIJS
the Startling defWf.le'TMnt'of historical fact, that Christianity
is really Mt of but of Egyptitln derivation.• As·
for its absurdity, they should not throw stones who live in
houses of glass. · · ·
Sozomen bas a whole chapter on purpose to confute such
aooounts of Constantine's conversion ; in which he admits
(whicli one would admission enough,) that the
emperor made some such application to a Pagan priest of
the name of SoPATER, who had been his friend·;
but that refused to administer spiritual consola-
tion, aBSerting that the purity of the gods admitted of no
compromise with crimes like his. Whereupon, ConetaJltine
applied to the bishops of Christianity, ·" who promised him
that by repentance and baptism they could cleanse him
from·all sin ;"t taking intothe reckoning, we must suppose,
the sin (if a sin they held it to be) of murdering poo}.' So-
pater, the Pagan priest ; whom; upon his conversion to
the Christian faith, Constantine took care to have put to
death.
It is from the which his best friends and most
zealOus advocates advance in his favour, and the pitiful
chicane with which they feebly attempt to conflict .with
the facts which his enemies, or rather the impartial docu-
ment!! of history allege against him, that we true
knowledge of the character of the first Christian emperor.
Thus the learned Christian historian Pagi, with equal
humanity and orthodoxy, affects to repel every aCcusation
that the tongue of slander might object against this holy
emperor :-" As for those ·few murders, if Eusebiue had
thought it worth his while to.refer to them, he would per·
haps, with Baroniua himself have said, that the young
Liei.niue (his infant nephew), although the fact might not
generally tuJ,ve been known, had.most likely been an ac-
complice in the treason of his fl,lther. That to the
murder·of his son, the emperor is rather to be considered
u unfortunate than as criminal. And with respect to his
putting his wife to death, he ought to be pronounce.d
rather a just and judge. As for his numerous.
friends, whom Eutropius informs us he put to death one
after another, we are bound to believe that they of
• Compere wish Cbap.29,Ta• 8Je.-or Tllll CaOII,mtbiiDI&Gau, P,-198.
t TawCJ av•onttna,.no' oa:nco, 110:1 oq•- IICJTO:fC?tmJiot,,
ue,voa •""«eCJ<CJ a:a-r.,...-Zosim-. .dltu<.,..ovna: I• TCit' ''"'al'" •nc ·q
CJ11"CII)'OC!•110'u, noq<1'11fot• EntCJIIO'lrO&,, oc ,.na:"c• IICJc {Jfl'lfTICJI'tnc WflfiZOP'fO•
JliNirt llltl"tp . .IGS IICII.tCIIiqiC"•-8oumeL . ,
Dig•tizcd by Google
364 I'.ATBERS· 01' 'I'll& I'OURTII CBN'l'UilY.
them deserved it, as they were found out to have abused
the emperor's too great credulity,, for the gratification of
their own inordinate wickedneS$, and insatiable avarice :
and such no doubt was that SoPATER the
·who was at last put to death upon the· accusatiOn of Ad-
labius, that by the righteous dispensation of God, for
his having attempted to alienate the mind of ConstantiQ.e
from the true religion."• Dr. Lardner quotes this impor-
tant passage in his notes, for the benefit of the kar.ned
reader, but gives no rendering into English of the most
important clauee in it : which l have ·here supplied. ·
We have horrors on horroi'S in detail of·martyrdoms in
the cause of Christianity-hei:e was a martyr in the cause
of Paganism, of.whom, as· of millions Christians
massacred, it was a sufficiently fair account
either with Lardner to thin)t their cases utterly unworthy
of notice, or with Pagi to assume, that they had their
throats .cut and th.eir property turned over to th,e faithful,
by the just of God upon--them for not being_
of the emperOt"'s rebgton. . One's heart smarts ·at the
unfeeling exultation of Eusebius over the -cold-blooded.
massacres of Pagans, who, he tells us, "as they.formerly
reposed an ineohmt vain hope in their false gods, so now,
upon being executed and put to death according to their
desert, they truly understood how great and admirable the
God of Constantine was."t The war against Constantine
he throughout assumes to be,, a,nd expressly calls " TM
var agaif&Bt God."t . .
• De etedibu autem ai rationem m putacalari redd- voluialet, dixillet (olllifaa
cum ipeo Baronio, Licini11111 janiorem ex iiorore
_ CoDBtantii' nat11111, ecai ca111a vu1«o
iporaretv, veroabniliter tamen complicem 1110 fuiMe : In Crilpo filio, iafeli-
cem magi! qnam ream : ID FaWita conjage, etiam jutam judicem appellandam :
N'11111eroaoe amicoe CJ1l08 auccc.ive interfectoe ICI'ibit EatroPiu,lib. 10, credeadam.
pleroeqae id commeritoe; quod nimii. principia credalitate.taDdem dlprebenderentlll'
abui ob suam exabenmtem maJjtiam et insatiabilem capiditat:em. Qualia procul-
dabio fait SoP.A.TU i11e philoeophu-, tandem· Adlabio agente, idqae
justa Dei diapenlatione qaJa Collltalltinam eonataa a vere J'8lisione abalienare.-
Pagi, Ann. 324, n. f2, quottd by Lardner, 4, p. 871. We C8D110t ba'nl
this fact stated with too great preeilllon. .I therefore copy it astold apin in another
which Dr. Larilner reodera tb118 from Sozomen : "I.am notignorant tblt
ibe G"entilee are woat to11ay, tbat Colllltalltine bavin« pat'to deatbeome ofhillrela-
uons, aod particularly his.IOD Criapu,·and being eorry for. wbat be bad done, ap-
plied to SoPA.TJ:a the pbiloaopher, aud be answering, tb&t there were no upia- -
tirma for auch offences, the emperor then bad recoarae to the Chriltialibisbope, wbo
told him tbat by repentance and baptisui be migbt be cl.-1 from an Bin : with
which doctrine be was well pleased,whereupon be became-aCbri&tian.-Lardlaer,
vot 4, p. 400. It was DI)Ver oa the eeore ofbeiu«a code ofmoraJit1 diG
ChriatiliDity eoald compete witb Papnian. · .
tIn Vita Collltantine, Jib. 2, e. 18 . t Ibid. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
l'.l"''HER8 or· THI I'OURTH CEJfTURT. 3M '
The of Christianity as thty appeared to Cotaltdn-
. · .tirae. ·
Nothing can be more relevant to our great investigation,
than a view of the evidences of Christianity' as _presented
to the .mind of the royal convert. Without passing any
judgment on his character, or ca.Sting any reflections on
Christianity from a consideration of the motives which
were likely to induce such. a 1nan to become its convert, we
are to rememper that Constantine was nota disciple merely,
but also a preacher of the Christia,n religion ; and has left
us the whole apparatus of argument, upon the strength·of
which, he not only ]?ecame a Christian himself, but which
he held sufficient to ·convince the reason, and command
the faith of all other. persons. . · . .
· ·It is not possible.that Christianity should ever have
possessed evidence of any sort to which Constantine could
been a . .. · . : , ..
lt falls not wtthm the measure of conceivable probabih·
ties, that so clever a man as Constantine' unqu,estionably
was1 i!l an assembly ap the
Chrtstlan clergy of his age !ind emptre, to dehver an ora-
tion .expressly on the evidenees of the Christian religiOn, should
therein, have omitted all reference to its greatest and
grandest and have dwelt only on suchas were
equivocal or nu,gatory : neither will conceit itself endure
the supposition, Christianity can, since his day, have
acquired any increase of evidence, eo that it shoul4 be
possible for us of later times to have other and better rea-
sons for believing it than our forefathers had, or that that
which was less certail;l at first, shouldbecome more certain
afterwards. · · · . · · ·
An attempt to give the substance .of so a
rhapsody of mystical jargon·as his oration to .the clergy,
would be only-less egregious thaJ?. the rhapsody itself. Let
the himself to got through the ten
first sect10ns of 1t ; here begms the eleventh of
O,atitn& to the CkrgrJ. '
u But I intend to ·prosecute the eternal decree and pur'!
pose of God, concerning the restoration of'JJtan's corrupted
life, not ignorantly, as many ·do, neither trusting to opin-
ion or ·conjecttu:e. For,·as the is the of the
Son,so the Sonis begotten of that cause who had existence
before all things, as we have demonstrated. . :But how did
Dig,tizcd by Google
S56 •ua•u o• 'I'll• cJDI'l'O'u.
he descend to men on earth ? This, was out o£ his -own
determinate will, because, ae the prophets had he
had·a general care of all men. F.or needs must the Work-
man have a care of his work. B'ut when he,came into the
world, by assuming a bodily presence, and was to stay
and converse some time on earth, for so the work of man's
salvadon required, he found a way of birth different from
the common birth of men, for there was a conceptionwith·
out a marriage, a birth without a ..... ; . ; while a
virgin wae the mother of God. The divine essence, which
before was only intelligible, was now become comprehen·
sible : and incorporeal divinity was now united unto a
material body. He was like the dove which ftew out of
Noah's ark, and at length on.a virgin's bosom.•
After his birth, the·wonderful wisdom and providence of
God protected him even·from his The Jordan
was honoured with his baptism ;t he had the ,royal unc-
tion besides ; by his doctrine and divine power he wrought
miracles, and healed incurable diseases. Chap. 1.2. We
give thee all possible- thanks, 0 Christ, our God and Sa-
viour, the wisdom ·of the Father. Chap. 15. Moreover,
we certainly know that the Son of God became a master to
instruct the wise in ·the doctrine of salvation, and to invite
all men to virtue, that he called. unto him honest.industri·
ous men, and instructed them in modesty of life, and that
he taught them faith and justice, which are repugnant to
the envy of their adnrsary-the devil, who desiretn to en-
snare and deceive the ignorant: He also forbiddeth lord·
ship and dominion,t and showeth he came to help
the meek and humble: This is' heavenly and divine .wis·
dom, that.we should rather suffer injury than do any, and
when necessary we should rather receive loss than do
another any wrong:§ for, seeiDg it is a great fault to do
any.injury,ll not he that suffera it, but he that doth the in· · 1
jury, shall receive the punishment.'If This, in mj
opinion, -it!! the firm bas1s of faith." · ·
• I eineerely •irethe dove's tute, 1111d envy him hie l'OOit : but where did he
find tM virgin, when evecy. body•wu drowDed l or where did COIIIIaDtiDe fiDd tilt
• llory ?. .
t Query: Wu be baptized to wuh away bileial, or ior what l
t: Compae this with the and bonoun which Colllltantine himlelf' &I'I'Oped
at that very time : and - another ·proof that fiom first to Jut, it wu DeYer
11ildemood that the moral preeeptB of Cbrilt were .eo m-.ch • lnteli4ed to be ·
obeyed ; llObody 1e111 diem eo-11111Cb at deem- u the moll Milo•belieY• .-,.
...... ' . .
§ Rxn: ! II Rxu ! '
· t" Rll8 sbolll oC Falllla, Cnlpll IIIII I..idnial ! I
Dig,tizcd by Google
I'ATBE&I OJ' TllJI J'O.URTB CI::MTUJJ1'. -851
. CMp. 18. "Here we must needs mentiOn a certain
testimony of Christ's divinity, fetched from thosewho were
aliells and strangers from the faith. For those who con-
tUmeliously detract·from him, if they will give credence to
"their own testimonies; may.sufficiently understand thereby
that he is both God and .the SoB of God; For the
Erythrrean Sibyl, who lived in the sixth age after the ftood,
being a -prieste88 of Apollo, did yet, by the power of
divine inspiratioo, prophecy of future matters that were to
p888 concerning God; and, by tlrt firlt lettm, which
is called an·acrostic, declared the history·of Jesus. . The
acrostic is, Juus Christua, Dei Filiua, &nuwr, Cru.• And
"these things into the Virgin's mind by impiratitm,
end by way of prophecy. And therefore I esteem
happy whom our Saviour.did choose to be .a prophetess,
'tO divine and foretell of his providence towards us."
The royal preacl\er prQceeds in the next chapter to re-
prove the incredulity of those whQ doubt tlie genuinenees
of this sublime doggerel.
H But the truth of the matter," he continues, "doth
manifestly appear; for our writers have with great
eo accurately compared the times, that none can suspect
that this poem was made and came forth after Christ's
corning; and, therefore, they are convicted of falsehood
who blaze abroad, that these verses were not made by the
Sibyl. . . . -
. And then follows Chapter 20, entitled " Other
of Virgfl concerning Christ, in which .under certain vails
•It il thai &ccarately versified bw, EDFih-by the lrao.l.tor Wye
llall: .
. 1 D that timi., when the «ieat1;lhall come, .
E artbahall sweat; the E"temal from's.tbtone
S ba!l Judge the 'world, and all that m it be,
unrigbteou mea and righteou, •hall God ... .
8 eated on Jai&h with llaiats etemall-ss.
· C ompa!Md, which in the lut aae haTe bea
H ence shall the·earth grow desolate Jt«&in .
R eprdl- lltataea andgald eball be held vain
I D cr-iY ftamea ahall bum earth - and akiel,
Stand up again dead bodiea sball;aod.rife,
That they may - an theae with their eyea.
C leanainc the faithfid in ttrelTe fcrantaiul. He
R eip ehaD for ever aDto eteraUee.
V ery God that he ·
w, and 0111' Saviolll' ·
X hriat that did .wFer for 01-and Ihqpe thtit'll do!
Dig,tizcd oyGoosle
858 •.ATBEBS 01' "TBB I'OUB1'11 CENTURY.
(as Poets uee) this knotty inystery is set forth;" arid to
be sure, the fourth Bucolic of Virgil: commencing
m11!11B paulo majora ;
(than which, of hardly
further away from all relat1ol) to any $ing of the kind)
is quoted as the ultimate proof and main evidence of the
Christian revelation. . . . . . . . . . .
The amount of evidence then, for the Christian reli-
gion in the fourth century, as far as ·evidence influenced
the mind of the most illustrious convert it could·ever
boast, was the Sibylline verses; now on all hands ad-
mitted to be a Christian forgery.; •and a mystical inter-
pretation: arbitrarily put on· an eclogue of Virgil, which
neither.the poet himself, nor any rational man on earth,
ever dreamed of charging with such an application. There
is .not one of aU the thousand-and-one Arabian Nights'
Entertainments,.which ·with an equal.lieence of applica-
tion might·not be shown to be'as relevant and prophetical
as ·this. · · ·
Surely we had a right to expect from Constantine, that
if evidence to the historical facts on which the gospel
rests its claims, existed, he was the man who should have
been ·acquainted with it;-this was the 0<1c8.8ion on which
it should have been brought forward. Nor are we to be
put off with the old fox's ap<ilogy-that the grapu are sour,
and that Constantine's testimony would have reflected
no honour on Christianity. Who, of all the whole human
race.could better have known the fact, or with greater
-propriety have given a certificate_of -it, had it been true
that such a person as JestU! Christ bad suffe:red an igno-
minious death under.one of his predecessors i:r;Ithe Roman
empery ? Who, shOuld have adduced· the ·admission of
Josephus, ... the testimony of Phlegon,_the passage of
Tacitus, ·nor these alone, if in his day they bad existed,
but ten thousand times their evidence, _or (what would
have been·equipollent to that)' should have· produced the
.sign manual of Pontius' Pilate, or the Tegister itself of
persons put to death under his vicer<>yalty, but Constan-
tine, into whose hands they must have·lineally descended?
Constantine could not have been ignorant ()f their exist-
$ce if any man on earth had.known·of it, and could not
have failed:of adducing them, had he known of them him-
self: and if he had known and adduced ·them, he would
Dig,tizcd by Google
UTREJU 01' YR'£ I'OUilTR. CUTUar. 861
have silenced the objections of millions of infidels: and, .
if infidelity be a damnable sin, would have saved millions
from damnation? Surely it wa& any thing rather than
such a palpable forgery as the Sibylline verses, or such
infatuate irrelevancy as a heathen eclogue, thatwe should
have a right to see assigned as a demonstration of the
truth of the Christian religion! We wanted not allegories,
nor mystifications, but the plain matter-of-fact evidence,
which might have excused a man to himself as a rational
being, in believing. ·Where is. that evidence? Where
the plausibility, the seeming, .the shadow of an historical
fact?-in heaven ?-in hell ?-in Brobdignag ! 'Tis no·
where upon earth. Then rail at us, ye consecrated suo-
ceseors of Constani.ine! Persecute us, ye lawyers! De-
nounce us, ye hypocrites! Curse us all ye priests! ·Rail,
raut, and roar for it:..,...-but talk of evidenoe! .
EUSEJIUS, A. D. 815.
is no·name in Ecclesiastical History of equal im-
portance with this: no character with wh,om it so vitally
coacerns, every rational man to be thoroughly acquainted,
no individual of the whole human race, on whose single re-
sponsibility, ever hung so vast a weight of conseqp.ence.
If Eusebius be to be numberedwith wiseand good men, the
strength of hia wisdom and sincerity of his virtue., are
sterling gold to the value of the Evidences of the Chris-
tian religion. If he be found wanting, just in ao much
must be the credibility of so much of the Chris-
tian eVIdence as rests upon his testimony,_ and that is, all
9ut the all of it. " Without Eusebius," says tlle learned
Tillemont, " we should scarce have had any
of the history of first ages of Christianity, or of tne
authQrs who wrote in that time. All the Greek authors
of the fpurth centUry who undertook to write the history
of the church, have begun where Eusebius ended, ae
having nothing«>nsiderable to add to his labours."
He was born, as is .generally thought, at Cesarea in
Palestine, about the year 270. We have no account of
his parents, or who were his instructors in early life; nor
is there aqy thing certainly known of his family and _
re-
lations. He is called Pamphilm, only in honour of hia
very particular friendship for the martyr of that name,
who had been a preabyter of the church in which Euse-
Dig,tizcd by Google
\
• 310 J'A'I'BJ:as or THE cJ:In"traY. I
bius succeeded Agassius as bishop, , in the year 315.
The name Eusehiv.s is one of that order which learned
men have .generally claimed to and been I
allowed to hold, either as expressive of the charaetei'B
they sustained, or to conceal the meanness and obscurity
of their such as our Pelagius, for Morgarl;
Calvin, . for Chauvin ; Melanethon, for Black earth, &c.
Eueebius, literally signifies; one tDho is eOJTectly rtligious.
There have been several of this name, but none of the
same age and character, with whom he-is so likely to be
· confounded, as his contemporary, and brothtr by CQUrtuy,
Eusebius, bishop of Nicomedia,-who calls our Eusebius
his Lord. They were entire friends, and so intimate
, that they were both of the same opinion upon the Arian
controversy .as agitated in the council Nice, which
was held in the' year i.25, · ill which our Eusebius
bore a most distinguished p:u:t.
was Buhop of Ccuarta from the
year 815 to the year 840, in Which he died,· in the '70th
year of his age,.thus playing his great part in life chiefly
under the reigns of Constantine the Great and his son
Constantius. He is the great ecclesiastieal historian, with
whom alone it is our concern to be especially acquainted.
Ye little Eusebiuses hlde your diminished heads!
His •WOrks bear testimony to a characterof very great
ability, of extraordinary and of an uprit-du-
corps, or high-church passion that absorbed every other
feeling, and would have induced him, as it did many
others, to sacrifice not .only life, but truth itsEM, to the
paramonnt claims of .church's interests. St. Jerome
gives a catalogue of his works, which consisted of 15
Books of ·Evangelical Preparatiofr-as preparatives (or
such as were to learn the doctrine of the gospel. ·(So far
was this great histo,rian from apprehending. that ther.e
was sufficient historical evidence to command any man's
rational conviction, .without a preparatory discipline-a
of the Qbstinacy of · reason and common-
sensE!, .and '·' b!inging down every 'thought to the
obedience of fa1th;")-then followed h1e .20 boob of Etta•
, gelical Demonstration, .in which he proveth and confirmeth
of the New Testament with a confutation of
the devil; five books on the »Wine .D:pparition;"• ten
• Or TMophang, that is," tltethifling /IW'fh.of God;" a COIICilit. wbicheoa-
ceit illlelf could hardly have dreamed of, as ·a deliniti.on of the life and llltna-
tares or the IOn or a frail airl of hero of die pulet, .. o. it oDo
OF _T.U CJl'TU.Y., .
bqoks. of .EccluWiieal Hutory, by far the most important
and as jt is also the most defective· of his
writillg8-:a general recital of Chronical .Canons with an
Epitonu of same ; a treatise on tht Discrepancy of tlae
Evangelists. . ·
· Ten books of Commentary the prophet •
.11 Commentary on the 150 Psalms. .
__Three boob on the Life of his friend Pamphilw.
Six books in Defence of Origen. · ·
Thirty books against Porphyry. ·
Eight books against Huroclu.
Four books of the Life of Con6tantim.
-. Books on 'Martyrology. .
. On Fatal Destiny. .
Three books against ,Ma,rceUus, who had been bishop of
Ancyra in Galatia, and depased upon suspicion of here8y
about •· n. 3.20.
.'· One·book on and perhaps others innumerable,
which nobody nor would be the wiser for rea.ding.
His however, 1s general good, and his Greek, very
fluent and easy read.ing. .
l ile has been accusea bv some of criminal time-serving,
and of sacrificing to the gods to subserve some tempor81
purpose of his own, but not, indeed, on any satisfactory
evidenee of the f'a¢t. . His Life of Constantim, however, is
incontrovertible demonstration him ;· that he
a regarc;lfor truth, standinhis way to preferment,
t!'tat h.
e was a wnsummate sycophant, and that no man
b,etter understood; successfully .practised, ·the
c6urtly arts of standing well with tht powers be•
. places Arians; and the learned
allows that ·'' there are many unwary and dangerous
expressions in his writings. He subscribed the Nicene
as he would have subscribed any other, though
<idJ:ltra.ey to his convictions :• and. tQ · the sense of hie
both before which,.
Dz.. Lardne.r affectedly remarks, that "1t 18 grtevous to.
. 'better .hadit that .the bishops ofthat c.oun·
cjl1.M4 never met tQgether, than they should have
trerod !'; :AU oiher diU.ea eudeavou to nbdae ..;n..
..of thebiiiiWJity 'of Chrilt illlllllt it. . ; .
• Like ou OWII Archdeacon Paley, " he eoulil .not .afford to have a .eota.
88e hiB ure jlrefhed'to his Evidencea of Chrisdanity. . .
1 · e Arcllbisllop be might have believed it ill. the .lump, widaO•.
ititithe ,;...tw.T..," hia EVicle.uee before the Holllll of LOrdi. ,. .
....-a. ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
.. .
tempted and prevailed upon a Christian bishop, or any one
else, to pre11aricate and act against conscience." .
· This author· was a witness of the sufferings of the
Ch)."istians," says Dr. Lardner, "in the early part of his
life, and afterwards saw the splendor of the Church, under
the first Christian Emperor. Like most other trreat men,
he has met with good report and ill report ; his learnill8',
however, has been universally -allowed." "It appears,
(says Tillemont) from his works, that he had read all
sorts of Greek authors, whether philosophers, historiaWJ,
or divines, of Egypt; Phamicia, Asia, Europe and Africa."
" With a very extensive knowledge of literature (contin-
ues. Dr.· Lardner), he seems to have had the agreeable
accomplishments of a courtier.· He was both a bishop aJJ.d
a man.of the tDOrltl; a great au.thor and a fine speaker. We
plainly perceive from his writings, that through the
whole course of his life, he was studious and dili-
gent, insomuch that it is wonderful how he should have
had leisure to write so many large and elaborate works
of different kinds, beside 'the discharge of the duties or
his function, and beside his attendance at Court, at
Synods, and the solemnities of dedicating churches. · He
was acquainted with all the gre'at and learned men 9f hitJ
time, and ha& acce5:s to the libraries ·of Jerusalem and
Cresarea ; which advantage ·he improved to the utmost.
Some may wish that he had not joined with the Ariau
leaders in the hard treatment that wa.S given'to Eustati'us,
Bishop of Antioch, Athanasius ·or Alexandria, and Marcel-
lus of Ancyra. But it should be considered, that
Christian bishops in general, after the conversion of Con-
stantine, seem to have .thought, that they had a right to· •
depose and banish all ecclesiastics who did not agree with
them upon the points of divinity controverted at .that
time. Finally though there may be some things · excep-
tionable in his writings and .conduct; his' zeal ror the
religion, his affection for the martyrs, his grate-·
ful respect for ltis friend Patnphilus-his dl1igence in col-
lecting excellent materials, and in composing useful works
for the benefit of mankind ; his caution and scrupulous-
ness t:ouching for the truth• of Constantine's ·
the apparition of the cross, as well as other th.inga,.fully
• Bat lmely thia lyillg is bat a more -m. Uld ·cowaatllyw!
of Iyme:he !mew that &he od was a.erted, and prollied by tbe...
biB iDilaence to it, Uld aubecribed it. with tbe cOIIIQ& ora
Dig•tizcd by Google
.ftTU'U . OJ' 'J'BE J'OlfJl')l C:&ftVaT. 388
aatisfy·me,.MltDillrllanJing ·tDMt some may •y, that he was a
good 88 well as a gs:eat man.,., · · . . ·
· .Du Phi says " that Eusebius seems. to have been ve:ey
disinterestEid, very sincere; a great lover of peace, of truth,
.and religion.· Though he had close alliances with the
.enemies Of Athanasius, he appean not ·to have been his
enemy ; nor to have any great in the quarrels of the
bishops of that time. He was Pfesent at the oouncils
where unjust things.. were ·transacted, but we do not di.-
eera that he showed signs of passion himself, or that he
was the tool of other men's passions. He was not the
author of new·creeds-he only aimed to reconcile and re-
unite parties. He did not abuse the interest he had with
the Emperor; iG raise himself, nor to ruin his enemies, 88
Gid Eusebiua of but he improved it for the
benefit of the ohurch." Such ia his .character, as drawn
by his advocates and,friends, a character •unfortunately
·.pregnant with admisEiions of enough, and .more than
· e:oo.ugh, to justify the ·of Ba:roniua and othen,
·sincere professors of the Christian faith, who have bran4-
ed hiin as the great falsifier.of.ecclesiastical history, a wily
sycophant, a consummate hypocrite, and a time-serving
P'Tstcuror# lncleed, there is no fair evidence in any thiag
that appea.rs in his writings, or is known of his life, to
suppdl't our wish, for the honour of human nature, to be-
lieve that he hiiQ8elf believed·the Christian religion. Had
he done ·so, oan we think. that he would have deemed it
to promote that eaUBe by forgery and imposture,
·by trickery and falsehood, u he h&fJ constantly endeavour-
ed to do?
· " He had a great zeal for the Christian religion," says
Dr• Lal'dner,.and so far, undoubtedly, he was in the right,
neverthelees be should not have attempted to 111pport it
by weak and false arguments. " It is wonderful;" he adds,
" that Eusebius should think Phi1o's Therapeutm were
Christians, ud that their ancient Wljtinga, ·should be our
gospels aad epiedes. · · · .
"Agbarus'&.letter to our Saviour, and our Savio\ir'slet-
' ter to Agbai'us, copied at length in our author's Eoolesiae-
.· tical Hittory, are much suspected by many learned men
·, not to be genuine. ,
" If the testimony to Jegus as the Chriat, had been from
the beginning in Josephus's works, it is strange it should
never have been quoted by ancient apologifjts for Chris-
• :LudDiw, VoL 2, p. 861.
Dig•tizcd by Google
:s84 .runaa Ol' TBR JJcroB:'fB ca•TvaY.
tia.nity, and now in the beginning of the fourth century,
be thought so important as'to be· quoted by our author iii
two of. his·works still remaining." That is to say, BlU'ely
Eustbius forged it himtlf! for the prirpoee·of quoting his
own. forgeey. · There was never. an adv.oeate ·of.the Chris-
tian evidences yet, whose constience:.would have opposed
any hesitation to such services, ia eo good a eaust:
. There:is a work to Pol!phyry, quoted by Eu-
·eebiuso in hia· PreparatiM and DetiiOR.WGiien. :If that woric
iB oot ·genuine (and I think it is .not) .it waa a forgery ef
his oW'Il, time, and the quoting it as he does, will be :reok-
·oned.an instanoe ofwantof care or·skill, orofcandour aBd
ilmpM'tie.lity.'• ' . . . . .
· ." J0Bephus says that casting his eyes
· 11pW8lds, Sa.w an,owl sitting. upoo a eord <Wer his head;
eeelesiastical historian says, he saw, an ngel. . I know
not what apology can be made for · . ·
So ·delicately does Dr. Lardner glance at the pecoadil-
of 'the great Christian hietorian: to say nothing "Of
-his ·entirely passing over the altogether character·of
·the religion:he profeesed ; the masses· said for the soul of
.Consiantine, hit fulsome panegeric on that great
·;monster of iniquity, and the innumerable instances of de-
;ceit and cunning which will be found by every shrewd
·fJtudent.of· .
. ·Eusebius held that Jesus Chriat created the substance
'<lf the Holy1
Ghost, and ri.diculeu8ly, orrather perhaps &al'·
·oostioally,' that miracles were still in.vGgUe, in
· his own.time,.ooly·they \\lire :little OfiU. ·
His adducing, however, ·of the authority of the elders
·of-the· churches of Lyons aad Vienne, ·without directly
pledging hit authority, to obtain belief from who-
.ever would ·believe the stories of the martyrdoms of the
saint& ·of ·those ·. churches, and 'of some ·whose bOdies
· were actually clive and uninjuml in the Btomaehl
:'tJf tlte ilnW 1Dho had •urea tAem,• ia proof enough
of his art in supplying adapted to the meaaest
·•capacity, and·a. grand of that peculiarly ·eccle-
"Siastiool fines8e, in whieh Dr; Lardner himself is an
exqw•··proficient ; the .oontriving to reap the effect of
falsehood, ·without incurring its responsibilitiest lying .by
proxy, ·and pushing what they never believed· 'them·
· selves 'into credence, as far .as credence would follow,
·-without oomautting themselves in any sufficiently honest
.*l.anlneO Credibility, VeL <&, p. 91.
Dig•tizcd by Google
,
r _.ro..
I
1
es:preeaion to enablo a _
man to lay the blame of it directly
lat own door. Thus also, the gra_ve and solemn Ter-
'tulhan assures us of a fact which he and alL the ortho-
.dox of his time credited, that the body of a Christian
which had been some time buried, moved itself to one
.ad& of the . graoe . to •make room for another corpse which
VG8 going be laid by . We have no leBB credible
aooounts of a holy dog, who used to slide along on his
haunches to receive sacrament, and to watch over the
church-yard like a guardian angel, and when he saw any
other dogs about to ease-themselves upon the graves of
the saints, he would instantly set on them, and teach
them to go further. He was actually canonized by the
of Rome, and many splendid and glorious miracles
were wrought at the shrine of the Holy Dog, St. Towzer.t
- Saint Augustin, in like manner, preached the Gospel to
whole nations-of men and women, who he assures us had
no heads.-Query, . could. he mean any thing else _
than
that, in believing the gospel, men and. women have no
need.of heads. .In a word;
Eusebius, like many other IP:eat men was drawn into
the frightful vortex of euperstttion, and had no alterna-
tive but to whirl round in it, or sink. Like thousands of
hie at this day, he both preached and wrote what
he never .believed himaelf, nor.could believe. It is only
wben.Religion shall.be no more, that Hypocrisy shall be
no- more: as .it ie, there ie .but one rule in theol9gical
uithmetio.;....i. e. the greater saint, .the greater liar! .
CHAPTER XLJV.
'
TJ:BTUIONJ' OJ' HEBBTICS.
. . . . '
Tua mwy definition·that will exprets the distinction
between: .orthodoxy and heresy, is, that the orthodox ·
·party are those who have the upper hand, the heretics are
t those who have the misfortune to get ousted. .All Disseu-
·-ters are heretica. Should any order of those of the presea.t
claycome to possess themselves of the aseendancy, (whiQh
.. • Temallian De An. c. Iii, qaoted by p. 15. · . .:.
' t The rWea of this traly Christian DoG are preeerved JJi .tbe pirillb. ehim:b
Ill' 8aa Alld1'811, 11eer Valladolid, to thill day. il with J-. :We:may
laugh at thil in Enpnd; but be woald be a bave IIIID who Jaasbed at it inSpaiD.
Bel! C.-Aolic MW.UU, p. 48. . . . . . · .•
. 8.1• ' .....,
Dig•tizcd by Google
BRRRTWI.
God avert) how absurd or monatrous soever their relbriooa
tenets might be, they would forthwith ·become perfectly
orthodox; and the church, in its turn, losing hold of the
great primum-mabiu of divinity (its revenue• and honoUI'S)
might carry with it the selfsame doctrines which it now
holds, into a state of the most deplorable and damnable
heresy. " The learned have reckoned upwards of ninety
different heresies which arose Within the fu.ost three cen-
turies; nor does it appear ·that even the most early and
primitive preachers of Christianity, were able to keep the
telling of the Christian &tory in their own hands, or to
provide any sort of security for having it told in the same
wali. Paul accuses St. Peter of wilfuiJy the
.gospel of Christ,• and (whatever we may feel ourselves
bound to think of himself) makes no mincing of the mat-
ter, in tellillB' us, that the other apostles were "fala
..apostle•, dectilful 11Jorktr1, dog•, and and ll&at 1/aey preacl-
ed Christ out of emy and mifo."t
In the epistles ascribed to John, and which are admitted
• 'to have been written some time before either of our gos-
pels; it. appears that there were persons professing the
Christian faith, who considered that a belief that such a
'person as Jesus Christ had ever existed, was no part of
that faith; and that he was denied to have had any
·existence as a man, or to ltaoe ctnM mthe jlaA, at a time
when, if that fact could have }peenestablished, therewould
have been no occasion to make a virtue of any man's
faith: the matter could at once have been settled for ever
on a basis of certainty that would have prevented the
power of the mind to conceive a (loubt on the subject.
The very earliest' Christian writings that have come
do'Wn to us, are of a controversial character, and written
in attempted refutation of heresies. These heresies must
therefore have been of so much earlier date and prior
they could not have been considered of 'suf:-
consequence to have called (as they seem to haTe
done) for the entire devotion and enthusiastic zeal of the
orthOdox-party-to extirpate, or keep them under, if they
-had not acquired _
deep·root, and become of serious noto-
riety-an inference which leads directly to the conclusion
they were ofanterior origination to any date that hu
,been ascribed to .the gospel history. When the
. . I '
t
• ii. 1.. ; Acg 89; PhiDpPi-·iii. 2; .Phil. L 11, bo
1-JY.I.
o;9; ized byGoogle
1
IIEft!'ICt.
simple fact of the· existence of such a man as JeS\18
Christ is questioned, it is usual for the modem
of Christianity to shelter themselves 'from all contempla-
tion of the historical difficulties of the cat'le; by assuming
his existence to be incontrovertible, and that nothing
short of idiotcy of under8tanding, or an intention to irri•
• tate and annoy, rather than either to seek ()I" to communi-
cate information, could prompt any man to moot a doubt
on the subject; nor is it in the power of language to ex-
ceed the 8ll'S of insolence and domination which even our
Unitarian assume, to cloak over their inability
to give satisfactton on this, the simplest and prime posi-
tion of the case, by taking it' for granted, forsooth, that
none but reckless· desperates, or downright fools,• could
ever have held the human existence of Christ as proble-
matical. We might, say they, as well affect to deriy the
existence of such an individual as Alexander the Great,
or of Napoleon Bonaparte, and so set at defiance the
evidence of all facts but such as our senses have attested.
It being quite forgotten that the existence of Alexander
and Napoleon was not mi'1'8culous, and that there never
was on earth one other real personage whose existence
..as a real personage was denied and disclaimed even as
soon as ever it was asserted, as was the case with respect
.to the assUmed personality of Christ. But the only corn-·.
mon character that runs through the whole body of here-
tical evidence, is that they one and all, from first to last,
deny the e:rlstence of Jesus Christ as a man, and profess-
ing their faith in him as a God and Saviour, yet uniformly
and consistently hold the whole story of his life and ae-
. tions to be allegorical. " The greatest ·part of the Gnol-
tia (taking that name as the most general one for all the
heretics of the three first centuries) denied that Chriet
was clothed with·a reGl body, or that he suffered really."t
Tertullian speab of only two heresies, that existed in
the time of the Apostles, i. e. the Docs·u:, so called &om
the Greek .tlo•l'fl•' opinion, BtUpicion, merely,
as expressive of their opinion that Christ had existed in
:·appearance only, and not in reality; and the EalONITiils,
so called from the Hebrew "'ord abioni"', in expression of
their poverty, igilorance, and vulgarity.; Docetiem, says
• Let any man only read the Preface to the Rev. l. R. Beard'• Hiltorical
or Cbriltianity· Un.-ilabte, and imape if he CaD, how either God
or ever have thandered with more aaclacio• GocUae,d.
t . , VoL l,p.186. .
I Qaoted iD Lantatr,voL <t, p. 611.
Dig,tizcd by Google
Dr. Lardner, " eee.n& to have derived its from.the
Platonic philosophy. For the followe.J'8 of this opinion
were principally the. higher cl888e8 of men, and
were chiefly thO&e who had been converted from heathen-
ism to Christianity.,,. As far then, as such a question
' admits of proof, this is ab£Wlute proof that no such a
person as Jetus Christ ever existed,-" Blow winds, and •
crack your oheeksl"
. HERETICS WHO DENIED CHRIST's HIDiANITT.
Within the immediate year of the alleged crucifixion of
Christ, or sooner than other account of-the matter
could have been·made known, it was publicly taught, that
instead of having been miraculously born, and having
passed through the impotence of infancy, bc>yhood, and
adolescence, he had descended on the l:>anks of the Jprdan
in the form of.perfect manhood, that he had imposed on
the senses of his enemies, and of his !3iaciples, and that
.the ministers of Pilate had wasted their impotent rage on
an aicy phaa&om;t Cotelerius has a strong passage to
this effect, that " it would be as it were to deny that the
.sun shines at mid-day, to question the fact that this was
really the firat way in which t\le gQSpelstory was related:"
." While apostle& were yet ·-on earth, nay, while the
blood of Cb.riet was still recent on Mount Calvary, the
.body of Christ was a88erted'to be a mere phantasm''l ·
The heretics in. regular succeseion from Simon Magus,
so oontiderable ,a hero in the Acts of the Apostles, down-
.wards-as Menander, Marcion, Valentine, Basilides,
Ba:rdellanes, Cerdon,. Manes, Leucius, Faustus,.:...vehe-
mently denied the humanity of Chr.ist.
CE.RDON.
Though Dr. Lardner thinks the testimony of ({erdon of
eufticient respectability ·to '888iet clai1118 of the New
Testament, and concludes that Cerdon was a
and received the books of the New Testament as other
Christians did; yet, taking that book as his guide, he .
establi8hed his seet at Rome, where he taught, (the New
• Quoted in I..arduer. vQI. 4, p. 4128. t Byntagma, p. 101.
- :1: Apoat.otil adluae ia EOalo ICipllltitibaf apad Jlldleam Christi 1181J111iae re-
oemo,·et Ps.&xT.t.IK.A. . Dot:IIW U181eba&v.-Cotel. Patru Jllfatol,
tom•.J, p. 24. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
I
J
369
Testamendn his undel'8tanding ofit containing nothing to
the oontrary), that" our SavourJesus Christwas not bom
of a virgin, nor did appear at all in the fiesh, nor had he
descended from heaven; but that· he. wa,s seen by men
only putatf.,ely, that. is, they fancitd they saw him, but did
not see him m reahty, for he was only a shadou!, andseemed
to suffer, but'in reality did not suffer at all."
MAR.CJON 01' PONTUS, A. D. 127.
The successor of Cerdon, and himself the son of the
orthodox bishop of that city, whose opinions, according
to the testimony of his adversary Epiphanias, prevailed,
and in his own daystillsubsisted,throughout Italy, Egypt,
Palestine, Arabia, and. Syria, W88 so far from believing
that our Saviour was born of a virgin, that he did not al-
low that he had ever been born at all. He maintained
that the son of God t'ook the exterior form of a.man, and
appeared 88 a man, but without being bom, or gradually
growing up to the full stature of a man, he had showed
himselfat once in Galilee, completely equipped for his di-
vine mission, and that he immediately assu91ed the char-
a.cter of a Saviour.
. Dr. Lardner instructs us that the Marcionilts (the fol·
Jowers ofthe opinions of Marcion) believed the miracles
ofChrist ; they moreover allowed thetruth of the miracu-
·)ous"earthquake and darkness at the crucifixion; they
acknowledged his having had twelve disciples, and that
one of them was a traitor. "It is evident tltat these
· perf!oll8were in general strictly virtuous, that they dreaded
sin as the greatest evil, ·and. had suah a regard for
Christ 88 to undergo martyrdom rather than offer·incense
to idols." (605.) . This was at le88t so much more than
Orjgen, 'With all his orthodoxy, would do. If we deny
· these men to have been Christians, .to whom shall we
confine that designation? It cannot be disputed that the
Gospel according to St. Mark does admit of a .Marcionite
reading; .nor did.theae primitive dissenters entirely reject
Lu4e's.GQe!P6l, thqugh in their copy .of .the
Verite.39 of its. 24th chapter* .contained the little 'particle
:Nor, where our copies have omitted omission
• 1', ,
• Lake:oiv. 89• " .Baflllle 111e and Bf!tJ; for a Bpiril h4th not flu-. and
hftt• 111 Y"" '" .u have." The readiu« waa.-atc. a spirit ba&h
DOt Seah and bones, u ye - tba& 1 )ian JrQT."--'PIJlalpiiCJcnt,... •• cd..r.-na
""Wf'G aaqu, •"' ocn-e11 ov• •xu, ,,.._.,llf''"'ov• •zena.
o;9; ized byGoogle
which; at the fim blush, eeeme to make; a trifting
enoe. inhis way, is ·indecently in de-
scribing the tenets which the Mateionites held. with re-
spect to the pei'S()n of Christ.• -·
LEUCiUs, A. _D; )4$. ·
Or Lucian, for he bad many .names-Lucanus, Lucius,
,Leicius, Lentitius, Le'ontius,· Seleucius, Charnius,
' nides, and even Nexocharidei!, which mean all .one and
·the eame ·person, was a distinguished Christian Doeete,
and one of the most eminent fol'.gers of sacred legends of
the.seconu century.,·ae is charged with being the forger
of the Gospel of Nicodemus, and was.the autl:lor of the
forged acts or journeyings.qf the A,pqstles. In the com-
mentaries which <go under the name of Clement of Alex- ,
:-andria, a ·passage from this -work is quoted, wbic}\ says
· that the Apostle John, "attemptjng to.touch the body of
· Chi'ist, perceived no hiU'dneas of the flesh, and. met with
· no reeistance from it, but thrust ·hie- hand into the inner
part." A sense which, .sen8e or nonsense there 1
be in it, i$ at least kept in. by St. Luke's Gos- ·
pel (ifthis Lucius and our Luke are not one and the same
person), where Luke tells us of Christ's "a"ishif&tf atDay,
which no body could do (Chap. .24:, v. Sl),tand then, with-
- out any .etatrk, standing again (a la. in the midst
of them (v. 86.) Say we nothing of the corroboration
from St. Gospel, -h:e Tho__ thruat his
1 hand il}to his -side, which no bodY 90uld have
. .. .27.)., but to let the lady Magda,lene 10
much as toach him, .which no body could .ha:v.e had
objection to; (v. 17.); .We have np to
think!. this Leucius any the 8orryer.'a.-Chrjstian because
Pope Gelasius c
. ondemned him his·
that all his wriiinga are apochryphal, and he • -
selfa disciple of the devil. . . . _·
· A:PELLES, A. ·D. 160, : .·;
That is, about twenty ··after the· establishment of
.Marcion, whose f1:isciple he"had·beerl;·made a eeliism from
' ,· .. I .. l . : · ·: ' ' , . . ! .. ' ,. ' t • . . •. · ", ,' • '
• NOD no•em metlllium craciatu deliberatus, nOD nbita dolol'llin coDellllioue per
corporis cloacam eft'lilb.a in terram, n'ec -rnoleltus Gberibus diu intam1 'ftX puer,
tarde homo sed de OO!IO eip(lllitus, lll!flel &randial, semeil9tlll, llllltim Cllrilall,
8pirita e& Virtu·et Deas tantam.--A-. MarciM, tiOI. ... · · · l · '·
f Illo avrW lf...t'I'O DlJ'I'CIW....
• o;9; ized byGoogle
HEREt'ics. 3'ft
the Marcionite ohurch ; and thus we trace by what de-
grees the Dooetian doctrines were brought into a nearer
conformity to the present type of Christianity, and what
-w-as origi!lally romance began to assume a certain resem-·
bla.nce·to history. . . .
APELLEs renounced the doctrine of Docetism, and main-
tained that Christ not an appearance only, but had
ftesh really, though not derived from the Virgin Mary, for
as ·he descended from ·the supercelestial places to this
· ea:rth, he collected to himself a body out of the four ele-
ments. . Having thus formed to himself a corporeity, he.
realty appeared in this world, and taught men. the lmow-
of heavenly things. Apelles taught that Jesus was
really crucified, and aft&"wards showed that very flesh in
-w-hich he suffered, to hisdisciples; but that afterwards, as
he ascended, he returned thebodywhich he had borrowed
back again to the elements, and so completed his anabasis,
and·sat down at the right hand of God, without any body
at all. According to this Father, however, Christ was tWt
hom, nor was his body like ours ; for though it was real
and·solid, it consisted of aerial and etherial particles, not
of such gross matter as our·frail bodies are composed of.
-It was a sort ofamber.
FAtJITUS,
· The most learned and intelligent Manichean, whom we
elsewhere quoted as directly charging the·orthodox .
party with. having falsified the gospels!*
charge whtch the only answer, by retortmg 1t
again ,upon the heretics,) in his interrogative style, thus
expresses himsel£-"'tDo you receive the gospel? (ask ye)
I do ! Why then, you also admit that Christ
was born ?-Not so ; for it by no means follows, that
in believing the gospel, I should therefore ·believe that
Christ was born ! Do you not then think that he was
ofthe Virgin ·Mary ? .Manu hath said, ' Far be it that
1 should ever own that our Lord Jesus Christ 4 •
... ,. • ., &c.
· • See W· 615; 86-, aad 114, in thw DIEGESII.
t Accipll ! Et mu:ime. PreiDde 8IJ!O at ll8&am.aocipll Cbriltlml?
Non i1a -. Neqa.e enim a.\ si .eyaupliam acci"o, idcUco' et natam -
cipiam Cbrietwr.. Ergo non putas eum ex "Miuia Virpe - ! Manes dixit,
Absit a.t Dominum nosmun Jesum Cbristam per nataialia: pudenda mulieria c».
...u.e Ua, voL 4, p. 20. ·.
Dig,tizcd by Google
8U
BEILETICS WHO DENIED CHRIST'S DIVINITY,
Down the whole stream. of time, to the present day,
there has been a long succession of h,eretic8, whose tenets
were the diametrical reverse Qf these of the more.early
·christians. From Artemon, Theodotus, Sabellius, Paul of
Samosata, Marcellus, Photinus, &c. we inherit the curse ,
of the Unitarian schism, which denies the divinity, as stre·
nuously, as the earlier Fathel'S bad denied the hunumity of
Christ. · The orthodox have devised a that seems
to have been intended to bring both parties together, or
to enpble them to turn their ·arms either against the one
fattion or the other, as political interests might prompt, 1
or.need require; and the union of the two natures-per-
. feet .God and perfect man-is now the ortbodox divinity.
It is, I suppose, upon inference from the.ee difficultiea,
which never could have been started with re$pect to any
being who had ever really existed ; or which beingstarted,
could have been settled at once and for ever, by the pro-
duction of any one municipal certifieat,e, or independent
historical testimony, that Mr. Volney, Mr. Carlile, and
other persons who do not exactly deserve to be considered 1
as idiots1 have ventured to deny that any such person as
Jesus ever existed.
It is of essential consequenoe to be borne in view, that
w of time, . · .
Those who denied the humanity of Christ were the first
class of professing Christians,,and not only first in order o£
time, in dignity of character, in intelligence, and in
P}.qral 1Jlfluence. · . · . . • · . ·
Those who denied the divinity, were the seoond, and in
every sense a lees philosophical and less important body.
.. Thejunction of the two in the mongrel scheme of mod·
ern orthodoxy, seems to have been completed in the am.
cles ofpeace drawn up for the Council of Nice, "-· D. •
. «Jenier.a of the human,ity: of Christ, or, in a word,
·professing Christians, who denied that any such a man u
Jesus Christ ever existed at all, but who took the nameJe-
sus Christ to signify only an abstraction, or prosopopmia, '
the principle of Reason personified ; and who understoodthe
whole gospel story to be a .sublime allegory, or emblem&•
tical exhibition of the sufferings and pel'Seoutions which
divine principle of reason, may be supposed to undergo,
ere it could its ht4ve.nly over the under-
BE&ETlCI.
and affections of men;-these were the first, ·
and (it 1s no to Christianity to pronounce them)
the best and most rational Christians. Many such fell
Victims to .the sincerity of their faith, not, indeed, as is
pretended by the persecuting genius of Pa-
gamsm, but by the remorseless savageness of the infatu-
ated idiots, who, having once been interested in the alle-
gorical fiction, like our country louts or Unitarian stolids
of the present day, would needs have it that it must 'all
and were ready to tear any one to pieces who at-
tempted to deprive them of the agreeable delusion.
The allegorical sense inay, by any unsophisticated
mind, be still traced; and, by changing the name Je8U8
throughout for that of Reason, the :Sew Testament will
acquire a character of comparative dignity and conflis-
tency, which without that clue to the interpretation of it,
would be sought for in vain.
HERETICS WHO DENIED CHRIST's CRUCIFIXION.
Not only among the Apostles, but by those who were
called Apostles themselves, was the reality of the cruci-
fixion steadily denied. In the ·gospel of the Apostle Bar-
nabas, of which there is extant an Italian translation
written in 1470, or in 1480, which Toland* .himself saw,
and which was sold by Cramer to Prince Eugene, it is ex-.
plicitly asserted,. that "Jesus Christ tDas not crucified, but
that he was taken up into the third heavens by the min-
istry of four angels, Gabriel, Michael, Raphael, and
Urielj that he sho\lld not die till the
. very end of the
worlo., and that it was Judas Iscariot, who was crucified
in his stead." ·
This account of the matter entirely squares with the
which·we have of the bitter and unappeaseable
quarrel which took-place between Paul and Barnabas, in
the Acts of the Apostles1f without any satisfactory account
ofthe ground of that quarrel; ·as well as with the fact that
see,m8 always to ·have preferred imposing his gospel
.jgnprant and credulous vulgar, and lays such a
· · t on the distinction that he preached
" esus Christ, and Him crucified," as if in marked op-
• Tol.ri!,W_...,, l..4ltla- L (fbap. IS, p. 17. .
i .Ailta;r.v1 88. " .&n4 the 10 IMrp bettDtefl them, that IMf
tlqarted 0r1t from the other." We neve.r hear of their being recon-
eW ill AOt extzaoldiaar,y-110 beUl Ua llatDlt is10 implacablt U aD
ofeDcted llllint.
Dig,tizcd by Google
'874
position to his former patron, Barnabas, who preached 1e-
sU:S but not crucified.·
The. Basilidians, in the very beginning of Chiistianity, in
like manner denied that Chl,'ist was crucified, and assert-
ed that it was Simon of Cy.rene, who was crucified in his
place: which account of the matter stood its ground from
the first to the seventh century, and was the form in which
itselfto·the mind ofMahomet, who,
after instructing us how the Virgin Mary conceived by
smelling a rose, tells us, that " thi Jeus derrisul a stratagem
agaimt 1!-im, but God deVised a stratagem against thtm, and God
is the best deviser ofstratagems." ''The malice of his ene-
mies aspersed his reputation, and codspired against his
life, but their intention only was guilty, a phantom or a.
criminal was substituted on the cross, and the 'innocent
Jesus was translated into the seventh heaven."•
So much for the evidence of the Crucifixion of Chriit!
HERETICS WHO DENIED CHRIST'S' RESURRECTiON.
In like manner, we have a long list of sincerely-pro-
fessing_
Christians down from the earliesttimes, who denied
the resurrection of Christ. · .
informs us of Cerinthus, who was contem-
porary with the Apostle .Joh? and his followers, and.that
he held and taught that Chr1stt sufferedand was crucified,
but that he did not rfse from ·the tomb: but that he will
rise when ·there shall be a general resurrection. Phi-
laster says of him+ that he taught that men should be
circumcised, and observe · Sabbath, and that Christ
was not yet risen from the dead, only he announces that
he will rise.
Had the Christ ofthe Gospels been reallythe founder of
the Christian religion, certainly it would be incumbent on
all Christians to be circumcised as he was, and to observe
that Jewish law only, which he observed, and which he was
so far from abrogating, that he declared that "heaven and
earth should pass away ere one jot or one tittle of that
law," shou{d be dispensed with.-Matt. v. 18. Our modern
religionits are Paulites: The Jews alone are the followen
ilf the example and religion of JEsus.
• See tbe Koran, c. iii."· ISS; uld o.iT. "· In, or lllaraecl'• eclitioL · ·
t "'" 111T111vq11111-'a• ·: l'fJ7fio I"Y'IY•Il-'"' : l'fU."' le
· 'I ·,.li-'o4ov Y"'l'-ra•
t Docet. aatem circmncidi et sabbatizaie et Chrilcul IIOI1dam a
momailllld, IIIIDUDCiat.-""Lardntr, 11ol. 4,·p. 868, i : ·•
o;9; ized bvGoogJe
I
I
t
&XT.IllUUL 376
· ·The Cerinthians,
The Valentinians.
The
The
The Marciollites,
The Bardisanites,
The Origenists,
The Hierakites,
The Manichees,.
Stand.in the long and nev-
er interrupted succes-
sion of Christians who
denied the Resurrection
of Christ.
. I have heard ofone ofthe most popular and distinguished
preachers among the Unitafians, who, upon being homely
pressed with the question as to tl!h.ere ht belittled the body of
JMUS C/,rist might at this .moment be, pointed with his finger
'to the turf, and looked vastly droll, in intimation of his con-
currence in that orthodox belief, so sublimely expressed in
the epitaphs we stumble on in Deptford church-yard:
against which., I believe there never was an infidel yet,
whQ could bring a rational objection.
" Go home, dear fiiend.l, dry up J.ODr teem,
Here we shall lie, till Christ appears,
· And when he comes we hope to have
• A joyful rising fiom the p.ve."
As the whole amount of the internal evidence for the
alleged fact of the Gospel; it may then be fairly stated,
that in cotltravention of the clear understanding of the
. mystical nature of·the whole Mythos, which those who
bear the·brand c;f heresy have given uS-while a thousand
expressions in the writings of the orthodox themselves
confirm that understanding: not so much as any two con-
tinuoue ·sentences can · be addueed from .any pen that
.wrote within a hundred yea1'8 of the supposed death and
resu,rrectiori of Christ, which are such as any writer
whatever woUld have written, had ·he himSelf believed
tat such events had really oceurred.
-----
. CHAPTER XLV.
THE WHOLE 01' THE EXTERNAL EVIDENCE 01' THE
. CHJUSTIAN RELIGION.
. PALEY;' in his Pauiinre, with that consummate
ingenuity which might be expected from a clergyman who
could not afford to a conscience, has contrived to substi-
tute a very plausible and indeed convincing evidence of
the existence and cl).aracter of Paul of Tarsus, for a
Dig,tizcd by Google
·UT&IUUL BTIDUC&.
presumptive evidence of the truth of Christianity. The
mstances of evidently-undesigned coincidence between the
Epistles of Paul, and the history of him contained in the
Acts of the Apostles, are indeed irrefra:gible: and make out
the conclUBion to the satisfaction of every fair inquirer,
that neither those epistles, nQr that part of the Acts of
the Apostles are suppositious. The hero of the one is
unquestionably the epistoler of the other; both writings
are therefore genuine to the full ·extent of every thing
that they purport to be, neither are the Epistles forgecf,
nor is the history, as far as it relates t_o .St. Paul, other than
a faithful and a fair account of a person really exist-
ed, and acte(l the part therein ascribed to,him. ·
---·
TESTIMONY OF LUClAN• .
Lucian, in his dialogue en:titled Philopatris, speaks of a
Galilean with a bald forehead and a ·long nose, who was
carried, (or rather pretended that he had been carried) to ·
the third heaven, and speaks of his hearers a8 a set of
tatterdemalions almost naked, with fierce looks, and the
of madmen:, who moan and make contortions; swear-
. mg by the son who was begotten by the father; predicting
a thousand misfortunes to the exhpire, and cursing the
Emperor. I have f81' greater pleasure in quoting the un-
exceptionable .
TEITIHONY 01' LONGIN171.
· Longinus DioJiyeius Cassius, whO' had been·Secretary
to·Zenobia Queen: of Palmyra, and died· A. n. !78, in his
enwneration of the most distinguished eharactel8 of
Greece; after naming Demosthenes, Lysias, ·Eschines,
Aristides, and others, concludes, and " add to.these Paul
·of Tarsus, whom I consider to be.the first setter-forth of
an unproved dOctrine."•
This testimony is,·indeed, very late time, and.extends
a very little way:; but let it avail as much as it may a.vail,
there oon be no.·doubt (whether Christianity be received
or rejected) that Paul was a most distinguished and con-
metaphysician, who lived Blld abo:ut the
time usually assigned, and that those Epistles which go
under his in. the Nevr Testament, are in good faith,
.{and even w1tli less alterat10n than many other writings of
.equal antiquity have such as he either penned
or dictated. Should any smcere and upright believer in
•Jieo' nwov' D'avlo, o onm• •a• nqwr1111 trqoanY,11011Wr!M!fOS
• .Maga.nue. ,
Dig,tizcd .by Google
-i
EXTERNAL EVIDENCE. 8'7'7
the Christian religion, instead of reviling and insulting the
author Of this work, or about to increase and extend
the horrors of that unJust imprisonmeQt, of which this
work has been the chiefsolace-set himself ably and con- ·
scientiously to the'business of showing that from an admis- .·
sion of the genuineness and authenticity of St. Paul's
and of the reality.of the character and part as-
cribed to him in the Acts of the Apostles, except·
ing the miraculous) the existence of Jesus Christ as a
man, and the general credibility of the. gospel history
follow ; he would well of the Christian com-
munity, and of ·all men who wish to see truth triumphant
over prejudice,·ignorance, and error. ·
· THE OF PHLEGON.
This has long ago been given up as an egregious
monkish forgery, no longer tenable-; nor indeed is it ever
ad.duced more modern and rational divines. Mr.
Gibbon, in his caustic and expressive style; says, "the
celebrated passage of is now wisely abandoned ;"•
but as he has not ·quoted it, and I find it, standing its
ground in the celebrated Dr. Clarke's Evidences jf Natural
and ltevealed Religion, I have thought it worthy of trans-
cription in this place. This it is, . .
· "tin the .fourth· year of the two hundred and second
Olympiad, there was an eolipse ofthe sun greater than any
ever luiown before ; and it was night at tl\e sixth heur of
.the day, so that even the stars and there was a
great earthquake in Bythinia, that, overthrew several
houses in Nice•" · . · ·
-
' THE PASSAGE OF MACROBIUS. ' .. ''
" When·Augustus bad hei!U'd that among the children in
Syria, whom Herod, King of the Jews, had ordered to be
under.two years of age, his own son was also killed,
.he remarked t4at it was better to be Herod's hog than his
aon."i ·
• Dec1ille 8Dd Fall, chap. liS, ad eakem.
t Tnaqor• 8 "'" "''I' 6uJ1CO(JionlfS 6o111'11,)«' olv,.nador, q.awro ,a,..,,
l"f&rn 'l'..... l)'t/.,qflfi£1YIIII' n'(>01'1(>0t't 1CCII t'tli tii(Hf llti'IJ 'l''Jf 'JI£1qGf 1)'11!1'1'0 tpr.a 1CCII
-". ... fCI"'l"CJI, 1CCJI CIUCI1£0f·-· 'l'. ,l, . . ..
t Cam audiaiet (Augustus) inter pueroe qUOB in Syria, Herodes 'rU flicheoram
. ·mtta bimetam jliiait interfici, filium quoque ej• oooillam, &it, " Meial.. Herodil
pomuD- qum fililiiD.''-Macrobiul,lib. 2. o. -i.-Clarke 811. · .. \' : •1
. Dig,tizcd by Google
...
S'78 ETIDERCJ.
Thete is no ocoaaion to be prolix in comment upon a
passage, which though urged by Dr. Clarke, and some of
our earlier Christian evidence w.riters, is regarded gene-
rally by Christians themselves as somewhat below the line
of respectability. It is not adduced by Eusebius who is
ridiculously diffuse on the slaughter of the children in
Bethlehem,• and who would have made much of it, had it
been known to him. The probability is, that ·Macrobius
might have recorded, such a saying of Augustus, with re-
spect to some unnatural father, or even of Herod himself,
whose cruelty to his own family :was but little inferior to
that of the evangelical .Constantine ; and some of the
Monkish Radiurgs,t or dexterously-forging scribes, might
have thought it a good exploit, to fit it with the occasion.
The whole·passage of St. Matthew's Gospel, which re-
lates the story of the slaughter of the innocents, is mark-
ed in the improved version of the New Testament, as of
doubtful authority ; and·is included among of 1M fadl,
of which the.Unitarian editors of that version, say in their
note, that they hafJt a fabtWJul .
I cannot possibly treat this deheate subject with
delieacy, than by possessing my readel'fJ of the
which a learned, intelligent, and sincere believer m the
Christian religion, has passed upon it. ·
· "Josephus and the Roman historians us partieular
BCCQunts of the obaraoter ofthis Jewish · , who receiv-
ed h.is sovereign authority from the Roman mperor, ancl
·inform us of other -
aots of cruelty which he was·guilty of
:in his·ownfamily ; bot of thia infamous inliuman butchery,
!whioh.·to tbie day ·remains unparralleled in ·the annals Of
tyranny, they are entirely silent. Under slJ#l ciroumstan-
ees, if my eternal happiness depended upon it, I could not
believe it true, .Putthough I reMi}:y with Horace,
.I .CQ.Illlot as.he does, crtdal JutltBUB ApeUa ;§
for l ®@dent, there is no Jew that reads this chapter,
who ·does not laugh at the ignorant credulity of th0$e
.- Christi.Ms,!l who receive such gross, palpable
falsehoods for the inspired word of God, and lay 'the foiiB·
dation of their religiQn upon such incredible fictions as
these.''f ·
• Ecela'Hilt. Ub. '1, e: 9. t
t Not 1I § Let tAe .TttJJ .lptl,_btiNN I
· II PbMian not the or before bileya
_, JjJ
p. 128. ·'·· .. . . . ' . .. . .
Dig,tizcd by Google
'I
r
)
ai:ftuAt
P'(JBLIUS J.JlNTULUS.
It was ·a known custom of government, that whatever
. of occurred in any province of the empire, should
be transmitted in due report from the provincial authorities
to the lmowledge of the Roman Emperor the Senate.
Of this, the correspondenceof the younger Pliny and the
emperor Trajan, as well as the natural and obvious neces-
sity of the thing, is proof unquestionable. · · · .
Upon the notoriety of this custom, and the self-evident
inference, that it was impossiblethat the Procurator or re-
presentative of the Roman Judea, should have ·
omitted to make a report of the existence and miracles of
.Jesus Christ ; a few years ago, the great libraries of Eng-
land, France, Italy, and Germany, pretended to possess
their several authentic copies of the epistle, in· which
, Publius Lentulus, the supposed predecessor of Pontius Pilate
in the Province of Judea, was believed to have written to
the Roman Senate a most ·particular description of the
person of Jesus Christ.• · - • ·
It was first found in the History of Christ, as written ln
:Persic by Jeremy or Hieronymus Xavier. ·
In front of certain parchment manuscripts of the gos-
pels, written three hundred and twenty-five years ago,.
· pre!!lerved in the library at Jena, there is still preserved,
the fQJiowing inscription : ·.
"In the time of Octavius Cresar, Publius Lentulus, pro-
consul in the parts of Judrea and (the territory) of Herod ·
the King, is said to have written this epistle to the Roman
Senators, which afterwards found by Euiropius.in
: the annals of the Romans."t This·commentitioos epistle
.was f<1rmeJ'ly edited among orthodox writings, under the
·title,- · ·
" Lentulus, Prefect of Jerusalem, to the Senate and
people pf Rome, greeting ; · · . ·
· thie time, there hath appeared, and still lives, a
· • All Ol!r pictures of the handsome Jew, present the closest family liken- to
·the Indkn Cbrishna; and the Greek and Rol!lan ApoUo. Had the Jewish t.ext
)leen respected, he would rather bave been .exhibited as hideouly ugly : " hill vill-
wa. 10 man-ed more than MtJI man, and hill form more than the "'"
Iii. 14. But lhis would have 8p0iled the ornamentll orthe
. ehq,ch as as of the theatre, and been fatal to the faith of the fair sex.-Wbo
could bave believed in an ugly son of God? •
t Tempo,-ibu.i Octaviani C&l88l'i.s, Publi118 Lentul118 Procos. in partibliS Judtea,
. et Jlerod'JB Regis.' SenatoribliS Romania, bane epistolam IICripReee fertnr, qae
,po,tea ab Ji:¢ro,vio repert• in annalib118 Romanornm.-Fabrim Cod. .4poe.
lom. '1, p. 802. · . ·
*Hoc tempore vir apparnit, et adbuc viva vir pneditu poteDua mapa,
Dig•tizcd by Google
man endued with .great powerst whose nam<' is Je8111!
Christ. Men say that he is a mighty prophet ; his dis-
ciples call him the Son of God. He restores the to
life, and heals the sick from all sorts of ailments and
· diseases. He is a man of·stature, proportionably tall,
and his cast of countenance has a certain severity in it,
eo full Qf effect, as to induce beholders to love, and yet
still to fear him.. His hair is ofthe colour ofwine, asfaras
to the bottom of his ears, withoutradiation, and straight;
and from the lower part of his ears, it is curled, down to
his shoulders, and bright, and hangs downwards from
his ; at the top of his head it is parted after the
fashion of the Nazarines. His forehead is smooth and
clean, and his face without a pimple, adorned by a certain
temperate redness ; his countenance gentlemanlike and
agreeable, his nose and mouth nothing amiss ; his beard
thick, and divided into two .bunches, of the same colour
as his hair ; his eyes blWJ, and uncommonly bright. In
reproving and rebuking he is formidable ; in teaching and
exhorting, of a bland and agreeable .tongue. He has a
wonderful grace of person united with seriousness. No
one hath ever seen him smile, but weeping indeed they
have. . He hath a lengthened stature of body ; his hands
are straight and turned up, his arms are delectable ; in
spee,king, deliberate and slow, and sparing of his conver-
sation ;-the most beautiful of countenance among the BODS
of men."
• THE VERONICA BANDB:I:RCHIEF
Would deserve a consideration among the external
evidences of Christianity, had it not been consecrated by
the serious belief and earnest devotion ofthe largest body
llOIDell ejaB J- CbriltDI : Homina eam proplllitaaf poteDtem dicat. diD-
pall ejall, filium Dei vocaut. Mortaos vivifieat, et Epl8 ab olllllil c-il
msritudiDib'as et morbie Vir eat atte 11tat11ne proportionate, et
nlt118 eju c:umJJeveritate, et plen118 eflic:ac:ia, ut spec:tators amare 81Uil ....- •
nuns tunere. Pili capitis ejus, vinei coloria 18Jne ad fandamentum ..m.,
line radiatiorae et ereeti, et a fundamento &urium usque ad humerus conllorti, ec
lacidi, et ab humeris deoi'IIWil pendentea, bifido vertic:e dilpositi in IDOnllll . .
,preoram. Fro01 plana et pura, facia ejua BiDe miiCala quam rubor qUIIa
temperatu. oi'DDt. Aspec:tu. ejas ingenuDI et ptae. NUIIII et oa ....
IDOdo Jeprebeasibilia. Barba ejas multa, et colo_re pilorum capiti. . bifian:ata:
Oculi eJDI eeraiei et extreme luc:idi. lA repnlbendendo et objarpndo 4iJmli.
dibilis, m doc:endo et exhortando blandm 1iDsiue et amabilil. Gratia .mirada
· . vultaa, cum pvitate. Vel aemel eum rideatem nemo vidit, eed 8eut.a -.
lltatuJ'r ootporia, manus ejus rectm, et eiec:tm, brachia ejll8
AD loquendo pondfllDDII et gravis, et parous Palc:herrimu vultamtaJ1a1Dt.
• ........ ""lK
o;9; ized bvGoogle
BYID&RCB. •
••
ead most of professed Christian8. I make no ·
remark on the &tory, but copy it as I find it, in a note of
the editor on the text of Eusebius, where he the
story of.the correspondence of Christ and Abgarus.• "How
that Abgarus; governor of Edessa, sent his letter· unto
Jesus, and withal a certain who might view him
well, and bring un:to him back again the lively picture of
Jesus. But the painter not being able, for the glorious
brightness of his gracious countenance, to look at him so
steadily as to catch his likeness, our Saviour himself took
an handkerchief, and laid it on his divine and lovely faee,
and by wiping of his face, his picttu'e became impressed on
the handkerchief, the which he st3nt to Abgarus."
This story the translator gives with severe censure from
the historian Nicephorus, and perhaps it might deserve no
less.; but that .the impartial principle of this DrEGEsu,
forbids our treating any subject with levity or indiffer-
ence, that has had power to engage the impassioned affec-
tions and eamest devotions of so numerous and respectable.
a portion of the Christian oommunity.
I copy from Blount's Philostratus, the annexed prayer,
extracted from a Roman Catholic Liturgy, or manual.of
true piety : .
'I'M Prayer lo J"
mmicG.t
• · " Hail Holy Face impressed on cloth ! Purge us from
every spot of vice, and join us to the society of the bleee-
ed ; 0 blessed Figure !' . ·
THE TEITIMOJn' OW PILATE.
In the same spirit of pious fraud, the Christian world
had for ages been led to believe that the governor Pon-
tius Pilate had sent to the emperor Tiberius, an account
of the c111Qifixion of Christ ; which indeed, had such a
person ever existed, and such an event taken place, it
18 next to impossible to conceive that he should not have
done. But, alas, this testimony too, has been swept away
by the terrible besom of rational criticism ; and is now
left to lie with that of Lentulus, the Veronica handker-
chief, and the Oracles : among the number of
• Ellleh. EoeleL Hilt. liJI. l, c. 14. '
t The ume Yeror*a, OC!C1IIII ia tbe GOipel ofNicodema, 11 that oftbe lady
1llho bebiDd J- aod toiiCbed tbe hem of hia garmeut. " Yeronica, ista
'fideter 1iteril traupoaitis, nata ex vocabulia duobaa, ,era icon. Certum elt,
iJ-m Chrilli, 110& pucil, 4iei Veroaioam."-Fat.
..... l,p.l61. .
Dig,tizcd by Google
·apooryplial cheats and· impositions, which the pur-
'pose of imposing on generations which were more easily
imposed on, but are rejected with disdain and disgust by
.the· increasing scepticism even of the most orthodox be-
·lievers. ·
. · Our immediate grandfathers, were ·required to believe 1
that Pontius Pilate informed the emperor of the unjuet
sentence of·death which he had pronounced againat an
.innocent, and 88 it appeared, a mville person ; and that
without acquiring the merit of martyrdom, he exposed
himself to the danger of it, that Tiberius,.who avowed his
·contempt for all religion, immediately conceived the de-
sign of placing the Jewish Messiah among the Gods of
Rome ; that his seroJ,e B;OOate ventured to diaobey the
commands of their master ; ·that Tiberius, instead of re-
their refusal, contented himselfwith protecting the
·Christians from the severity of the laws, many years be-
.fore there were any laws in existence that oould operate
·against them ; ·and .Iaetly, that the memory of this extra-
ordinary transactionwas preserved in the moat public and
authentic records, only ·public and authentic records
·were m11er •een nor heard ofby any of the persons to whose
keeping they were entrusted, escaped the kno'flledge and
research ofthe historians of Greece .and Rome, and were
·only visible tO the·eyes of an.African priest,·whocomposed
.his ()Jlei hundred and ,sixty years after the death
ofT1berms. · ' .·. ·
This testimony was first asserted by that braveasserior,
Justin Martyr; an9,.as a snowballloses nothing by rolling,
,has repeived through .the
. hands of Eusebms, Ep1phanias, Chcysost()m,
. and .Orosius,,till. warn;t hal)f!ing of
,has thawed 1ts '-'nsuostanttal fabn.c. · · · ·
. The faith of that great father· of pious frauds, Euse-
.,bius, upon testimony glows into a fervoUr of assn-
.ranee, which on any other subject would look like imp.
dence. For aftEir having assured us on·the testimony of
..TertulUan, us was so convinced b'y the account
that 1
fi1ate, pf!.d him, of the resurrection of
that he threatens death to any person who should ·but
bring an accusation the Christians, when certainly
.there were· ni>' Christrans ; and takes upon himself to in-
.form us, that '1
w it·was the divine that by vray
•T.,, liM' Ollt0t101£tfW CJVI'CU :ll'fOf "'"' /JCJl1.01£1f''lfi..• .-
II1JIIflaltma"•r llflX"' •xwr ""'yytl.aa 1.oyor nu.nC>xoa• Y'lf lib. t..o.1
1.
Digolizcd
EXTERNAL EVIDENCE•
.
··manaketnent, injected this thought into the Emperor's
mind, in order, that the word of the goepel, having got a
fair starting, might run throughout the whole world with-.
out opposition.''. ·
The probability of the supposed occasion, was sure to
bid for its ample suppty of forgeries to be fastened upon
it as Ovid, h""ving once got the names and circum·.
stances of either real or pel'8onages, given as
data, has invented imaginary speeches and epistles suit-
able for such under such circumstances to
have delivered, so Chr1stian piety has supplied us with
stores of epistles-not which Pilate· wrote, but which he
may :t>e supposed to have written; for all the au-
thentication required in matters ·of faith, is authenti-
enough. None but unbelievel'8 would wish for
more. ·
' John Albert Fabricius, has in his Codex Apocryphus;
noticed five·of these suppositions epjstles-:.ofwhich one,
called the .!lnaphora or Relation of Pilate to .Tiberius
in Greek, and ·of considerable length, as ·intended per-
haps, .if it had told, to pass for a ; the othe1'8,
short ang in Latin. I have given translations of them al-
ready in the 22d number of the first volnme of " The
Lion."
The .!lnaphora relates tlie miracles of Christ as recorded
inthe Gospels ; but supplies one or two additional, as cred-
ible as any of the rest. It does not exactly. confirm the
account which St. Matthew'gives us, and which no .
Chris-
tian can doubt, that "the graves were.opBnttl, and many dead
bodies of the ·saints which slept arose, and came out of the gravu,
and went into the holy city, and appeared u"'o maRy."* But it
·ent\rely corroborates the story of the miraculous darkness
at the crucifixion, which Mr. Gibbon handles with such
galling sarcasm, merely because none ofthe contemporary
historians and philosophers have condescended to no-
tice it. · .
" There was darkness over the whole earth, the sun in
the middle of the day being darkened, and the stal'8 ap-
pearing, among whose lights the moon appeared not,·
but as if turnep to blood, it left its shining."t This
circumstance of the moon being turned into·
• uvii. 52, 58.
t 7'8 1floll ,.,ao• '1."'1/"C ar11a "'""' ocrr.qaw flll"wr""', no Oaf
ex EIJ'aonro 'I aa1'1"'1, 'l'o opayloc 4i'f'Mata.JC11Iad.an:,..-Jft acLieJI..
dil ad Fabricii Collie. Tom. 2, p. 97.
o;9; ized byGoogle
•
•
S84 UTKUAL SVlDBKCB.
blood, is no exaggeration, but is by the inspired
testimony of St. Peter himself, who not only assures us
that tM moon tDas turned into blood, but that the whole uni-
verse, " Heaven ab0t1e and earth beneath, presented one vast
exhibition of blood, and fire, and 11apour of smoke."• But
as there must always be as good reason to believe in mira-
cles of light, as in miracles of darkness, and the resurrec-
tion of our Saviour was surely as worthy an occasion for
a display of fire-tiJO'iob as his crucifixion, Pilate assured the
Emperor Tiberius, that " early in the morning of the first
of the Sabbaths,t the res\}rrection of Christ was announced
by a display of the most astonishing and feats of
divine Omnipotence ever performed. At the third hour
of the night, the sun broke forth into sueh splendor as
was never before seen,i and the heaven became enlight-
ened seven times more than on any other day."§ "And the
light ceased not to shine all that night."ll But the best
and sublimest part of the exhibition, as (with reverence
be it spoken) exemplifying the principle o(poetieal justice,
and making a proper finale to the scene was, that "an in-
stantaneous chasm took place, and the earth opened and
l!wa1lowed up all the unbelieving Jews,f their temple and
synagogues all vanished away ; and the next morning
tP,ere was not so much as one of them left in· all Jem-
salem ;n and the Roman soldiers who had kept the sep-
ulchre ran stark-staring 'mad."tt So truly may we
say, righteous art thou, 0 Lord, and are thy judg-
. mente!
.!1 coincident PaWgt from .!J.mobit&B.
Yet this ascribed Pontius Pilate, is hardly
less hyperbohoal than that which the gravest and most
.rational of the Christian Fathers is constrained to use,
when referring to the same subject. It wolJld not bear
the ,telling in the style of historical narrative. The calm
·and philosophical Lardner adduces this testimony of the
no less philosophical and rational Arnobius, as evidence
of'the " uncommon darkness .and other surprising events
" • Actl n. 19. . t Otp&G' Yl>'f¥'1"'1'· '"'' "UJ'T-
f fl<p:t'/ lo T(!I'Oif CD(l'Jf T'lf "'3ft'Of '110if, "11f0Tit 1fO.UG
, § flttro TOt' II(>G•IW flt'IIJ:tG& fiiiTGYCDfiW 11f'I'G1f1Gf1tOI'CI, tl1foq ft'Gf11Jf Tflf
II IIGaa• lo "'""" """'"'I"• ex lft'GtHJIJTo n .,.,,...,.-Ibid.
,. T- lo '""._ n-o.Uo& •.J•o• "" T• JlGI11'"'f• '"If Y'lf ttf,..
lt/fi,..,.GI IT&.
•• T'l" Gll(ltOJ' TO .._ teiiJ,_ T- TCI T8 1'1118 llyOI'ft'-·
.HtCI 11W"'"f*'Y'I T- aelot.v .. 111fl1.,...,., •• cwr., Tlj
tt Ot lo TO t1TF&4fl'•a n lft'41H1f& flt'Of'IPOC.- . I'• 1.-lliL
Dig,tizcd by Google
'
I
J
j
UT&aalJ. I:VIDUC&. SSS.
at the time of our Lord's passion and death."• That
evidence requires us to believe that, " when he had put
oil" his body, which he carried' about in a little part of
himself, a.ftel' he suffered himself to be seen, and that it
should be knQwn of what size he was, all the elements of .
.
the world, terrified at the strangeness of what had hap· ·
pened, wer.e put out of order, the earth shook and trem-
bled, the sea was completely poured out from its lowest
bottom, the whole atmosphere wu rolled up into ball8 of
·darkness, the fiery orb of tke sun itself caughJ cold and shiv·
..U." t ·Our Christian Evidence writers are not able to
adduce 80 much as a Sjrigle a-gthor, friend or foe, Pagan or
Chr.istian, who has referred to the11e miraculous events· in
any way of which they themselves are riot ashamed: not
one who haa related the story as if he believed it himself
-not one, who, however in some passag-es he may seem
to apeak as an historian, Jtas not in others abundnntly indi- ·
oated d6uble and shown his own secret understand-
ing, not only that rio such events ever happened, but that
no auch person as he of whom .they are related, ever
emted..
JOSEPHUS, A. D. 93.
T. Flavius Josephus, a Jewish priest of the race of the
Asmon.ean princes, was hom at Jerusalem, taken prisoner
by Vej;pasian·in his.wars, was present in his caii).p at the
siege of Jerusalem, and wrote a work on the Jewish An-
tiquities, in tWenty books, in the eighteenth of which, the
third chapter, and third seCtion, occurs the famous pas-
sage. . This it is ::- · · . · . . .
"±About that tlme appeared- Jesus, a w1se man, 1f m-
qeed it.be right to speak of him as a man, for he was. a
performer of wonderful wcfrks, a teacher of such men as
receive truth with pleasure. He after him many
. •·Ludlla-, vol. 2, p. 255. · . · ·
. t EuAt .t cotpore, quod ia exipi IIIIi circumf'erebat parte, 'rideri 1111
,.- est, cajas _, aut mepitudiDia· IICiri, oovitate renun extemta m181i llllllt
. element& tarbata, mota cootremait, mare f111111i1u rel'11811111 e1t : aer slobil
· llnolatu eat teoebnnm, ipeu orbii 101is tepeJ'acto ardore diripit.-p. 32.
*Tl,... !Jfn<J ,..., z.,aov,, 60f0' ••ra.a..8qa atnoP .hyaw
i'n; ll' 1/lr""' 8c8(J(JJCC1l.O, CI""I/OJ7r.,. ,..,. tzi'""J 'f'
Xac.nol.lovr ,.,, cov8ac011,, nol.lov' Ia TOt. •n'IYayaTO. - . 0
.wor .,.,. L• ow'"' '""e"nov "'ll"".,.a..J(>oo, n"'f' I'JI''"• nave• '"'',.,_
,..,.,_., lJi>lcnov, OVa 11rGIIa-111oaya TO 1fQcnotl.atnotl aya1tlj(1ana,. BfCI"'f YCIQ
ttwocJ, ,.'"""' wYfll" az-, m11l.c" Z.. T.,. .tu..,.1f(/OfJfrow TCIIITCI n, aac a.U4I
IJ1IIliG a-'ll' - • •'4'1J•oTIIP. 4•an•-r• ,.o,, nw Jeqacnco...,.., ano -rov8a
.....,..., ou• To ''S;' ·
oigtizedbyGoogle
'
886
of the Jews, as well as of the Gentiles. Thie ea.me Wll
the Christ. And though Pilate, by the judgment of the
chief rulers among delivered him to be crucified, thoee
who from the first had loved him, fell not from him, for to
them at least, he showed himself again .alive on the third
day : this, and ten thousand other wonderful things being
what the holy prophets had foretold concerning him ; eo
that the Christian people, who derive their name from him,
have not yet ceased to exist."
This passage was first quoted by EW!ebius, who e:mlia
over it as if he had found a prodigious prize. His exult&-
. tion itself only serving to awaken suspicion in every crit-
ical mind, that the passage is but another added to the
long list of his oum molt audacioul_ as he immedi-
ately subjoins-" Wherefore, since thl8 Hebrew· historian
hath of old delivered these things in his own writing, con-
cerning our Saviour, what evasion can save those who
. invent arguments against these things, fr.om standing ·con-
victed of downright impudence., • -
Yet for all this terrible defiance, the most unquestionably
orthodox and best learned of the whole Christian world,
ha"e invented arguments against the validitY of this pas-
sage, and have shown to absolute demonstration the cer-
tainty that Josephus did t&Ot write this paasage, and the
probability that Eusebius himself did! .·
Mr. Gibbon in his style of most significant do.ble-
thr01Ding, has a note, admonishing us that " the
·concerning Jesus Christ was inserted into ·the text Of
Josephus, between the time of Origen and that of Euse--
and may furnish u.s with an example .of no vulgar
forgery." t . ·
No vulgar forgery the cool calculating wicked-
ness, the reckless impiety, tbie matchless impudence of
this detected forgery, should indeed serve us as an
example, how to trust . and how to respect CAriltica
testimony. Appended as this note is, to Mr. Gibbon'l
admiSsion of the respect due to the .celebrated passage of
Tacitus ; to .what other sense can itbe read, tllan as G AiM
that Mr. Gibbon had no mind to run tint in the da.ngerCMJI
business of.analysing the evidences of the Christian reli-
gion. That work must be leftto Christians themselves,and
Dig,tizcd by Google
EXTEQAJ, EVIDENCE.
as no has yet given us leave to take the same
liberty with the passage of Tacitus, " the most sceptical
criticism" is obliged to respect its integrity. :But it will.
fall in turn. . The fate .of the Sibylline oracles: of the
forged admissions of Porphyry : of the correspondence of
Christ and Abgarus: of the testimony of Phlegon-: of the
letter to Tiberius: or the monument to Nero: and of aU
other wicked devices that served the turn of imposing on
the weakness of our- forefathers, but will serve no longer.;
awaits it. But a few years ago, and the author who had
suggested a suspicion against the genuineness of the pas-
sage_
i:n Josephus, if he had happily escaped the horrors of
a twelvemonths' imprisonment,.must at least have reck-
oned on: to sustain his full share_ of that abuse
and hatred, w1th which the ignorant part of the world,
which is unfortunately the ·greatest part, has generally
nwarded the wisest and best men that ever in it.-
:But oonviction has thusfar forced itself upon the mind of
the highest authority which Christians themselves can ap-
peal to. Their own all•deciding Lardner has pronoun-
ced this passage to be an interpolation.• _
It is-rejected also by Ittigius, Blondell, Le .Clerc, Van-
dale, BH!hop Warburton, and Tanaquil Faber. ·
This latter author imspects that Eusebius himself was
the author of the interpolation. What then must we think
of Eusebius ? .
We have already seen that Eusebius is the sheet-anchor
of reliance for all we know of the three first centuries of
the Christian history. . What then must we think of the
three first of the Christian history ?
An author who would deliberately, and with his own
hand, forge a testimony, and foist it into the writings of
·another who never did, and probably never would, have
borne any such testimony ; .and then quote his QWD known
tie, as.a proof. of the truth of the Christian religion, and
deal out his anathemas against all who should presume to
question it-What would he not have forged ? What
.must not he himself have,thought of the real nature and
merits of a cause that needed to be supported by such
means ? It is curious·to see, how even after the defini-
tive judgment of such high and confessedly orthodox au-
· • have \lublilhed .,__ arguments in my alao in m,1 N"metietb
Oration, debvered before the Areopagus of the Chrilltian Ev1dence Society, a few
weeki befine the eommencemeat of the peraeeution wbieb hu afforded me leisure
.
o; tizeobvGoogle
EXTEJUUL EVIDEft'Ct;
thorities, we are still occasionally pestered with puerile or
petulant last dying struggle'!, to rescue this hoty cheat from
the sentence passed upon-it- ·
For faith, fauatic faith, ouce Wedded fut
To aome dear faleehood, hap it to the IIIIL
.We are__required to give awholly different reading to
the passage ; to introduce imaginary p_arentheses, to make
omissi9ns ; or egregiously to mistranslate it : and
thus forsooth to chisel it into a supposable possibility that
Josephus might have written it. . .
the illustrious who have argued in this way, are
Dr. Samuel Chandler, Dr. Nathaniel Foster, Mr. Henley,
Mr. Bryant,• the Abbe. de Voisin, and the Abbe Bullet.
But the learned biographer of Lardner, in his life affixed
to the quarto edition of his works, jwrtly concludes, " Of
what avail can it be to produce a testimony so doubtful
in itself, and which some of the ablest advocates for the
truth of the Gospel, as an interpolation."t
Dr. Lardner, after having thoroughly weighed all the
arguments that could be adduced in its .favour, strenuouftly
defends his former opinion, that the passage is an inter-
polation.- " It ought therefore to be forever discarded from
any place among the evidences of
Dr. Lardner's arguments against the passage, in·bisown
words, are :
1. ".1 do not perceive that we at all want the suSpected
testimony to Jesus, which was never quoted by any of our
Christian ancestors before Eusebius. § -
2. do I recollect that Josephus has any where
mentioned the name or word Clari8t; in any of bis 'works ;
except the testimony above mentioned, 'and the passage
concerning James the Lord's brother.U ·
8. " It interrupts the narrative.
4. "The language is quite Christian. .
5. "It is not quoted by Chrysostom,'lf though he often
refers to Joeephus, and could Rot have omitted quoting it,
had it been then, in the text. . · .
6. "It is not quoted by Photius; though has three
articles concerning Josephus. . .
• In hie V"111dieim Flaviarue, or a Vindication of the TeltimoD1 pven byJ.;.
phus eoDceming our Saviour J-·Chrilt, 1777; -· .
t Life of Dr. Lanbaer, by Dr. IGppis, p. 28. *Ibid. 28. '
§ His ADswer to Dr. ChaDdler. 0 Ibid.
'!T Jo!Jn, Bishop of CoDIWitinople, who died A. D. 407t wu caned St. Cllry-...
.tom, or Golden-mo•tbed, &om the chBml8 of hill elOCJ.UDGB &be aadlor ot die
Jut pza]er in ciar .t.iturQ. _ . · ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
Ji:XTEUAL EVIDI:l'(CJi:, ' 889
· ?; " _
Under .the article Justus of Tiberias, this author
(Photius) expressly states that this historian (Josephus)
Jew, h'as not taken the least notice of Christ. _
.8. "Neither Justin in his dialogue with Trypho the
.Jew, nor Clemens Ale.xandrinus, who made so many ex-
tracts from ancient authdrs, nor Origen against Celsu8,
· ever mentioned this testimony. ·
· "')Jut on the eontrary, in Chapter xx:xv. of the· first
book of that work, Origen openly affirms, that Josephus
. who had mentioned John the Baptist, did not acknowledge
Christ. • ·
Dr. Lard!ler was anxious to have studied the defence
set up for this passage by' the Abbe :Bullet, which it seems
never came to his hands. Of this defence, the chief ar-
in its own words, are-,-
1. "That Josephus could not be ignorant that there
had appeared in Judea, a charlatan, impostor, magician,
or prophe4 called Jesus, who had either performed won-
ders, or found the secret ofpersuading numbers to think so.
.2. " That he ought to have taken some notice of Jesus
. and his disciples; and that .
_
8. Because Suetonus and Tacitus have done so.
4. " Because, he has given an accurate account of all
the impostors, or heads of parties which arose amongst
the Jews, from -the empire of Augustus, to the tuin of
Jerusalem. • · · .
5.·" Because, the faith Of hil!ttory ·required that the
·erlstence of Jesus and his disciples should not be passed
over in ailence;" and
Hence it is·inferred that -Josephus mwt hue written ·
thit!l passage: and its not being found by any of the
before Eusebius, i8 w be for, by tbe
supposition (a pretty fair one) that Josephus himself
might have published ·two distinct editions of hi8 works,
inserting the passage in that edition, which came to the
band of Eusebius, but omitting it in all others.
.So struggles conquered eophiatry 'against -rictoriout!l
truth; . . . . . .
Tlll: CELEBIU.TJi:D lNSCIUPTION TO NERO.
. As as it wo:uld•do--end criticism, afraid of' losing·
its ears m the pillory, was coastrained to whiaper its
discoveries in a corner, vent i';s secret sentiment, in
"ourses not loud but deep," the evidences of the .Christian
' 34• .
Dig,tizcd by Google
EllTBBlUL EVIDENCE.
religion, boasted of the celebrated inscription on a public
monument, erected at the time of the eventa it recorded,
and still preserved; ·ascribing to the emperor Nefo,'the
praise of having purged the province of Spain, inwhich it
was situated, from those who in his times, were labouring
to inculcate a new superstition.' · .
So that here were all the marks. of genuineness which
Mr. Leslie in his Slwrl and EaJY .M.etlwd with Deists,
maintains to be sufficient to an utter impossi-
bility of imp041ture, in ·any document in which they are
found concurring. This celebrated inscription is published
by the learned Gruterus in the first volume of his Inscrip-
tions, p. .238, is copied by Dr. Lardner from Gruter,* and
is by the learned Pagi, and other no less learned advocates
of the evidenceS ·of the Christian religion, vindicated by
arguments quite as learned, as ingenious and a8 convinc-
ing, as any that have hitherto been adduced for the equal- ,
ly veracious testimonies of. Josephus and Tacitus. The
inscription is,
NERONI CLAVDIO CAEBARI AVG PONT JIAll
. OB. PROVINC. LATRONIB•
. ET HIS QVI NOVAK
GENERI BVIIi. SVPER
STITIONEIIf INCVLCAB.
PVRIUTAK.
t. e." To Claudius Cmsar·Nero. Supreme Pon-
tiff. In honour of the province ha · been purged from
thieves, and from those who were en eavouring to teach 1
..the human race a new superstition." 8ulJatldi--no better
than thieves. I particularly wish to engage the .reader's
.consideration to the homogeneity of character which this
celebrated inscription presents, to the still more celebrated
passage of Tacitus. Apply the one, 81\ undoubted and
unquestionable imposture, as a teet of comparison to the
other. .
· this passage demonstrates these co,:ol-
lanes:- · ·
I. That Christian forgers were very heedful to forge in
keeping and character; and .
.2. That in falsely what their enemies urlght
have been supposed to have saia of thern, they suited
supposition to the pel'800.; and -
.. . '
891
8. Rather the representation for the better mak-
ing sure against being suspected of being the authors of it
themselves. • ·
4. Re¥iling and decrying themselves, in rather stronger
terms than their enemies would have .been likely to use
against them. ·
5. Thus they would contentedly be put on a level with
thieves, have their divine religion spoken of as some-
thing that ·ought to be purged out of SQciety; for the sake
of making the testimony, whieh they had forged thelfl·
selves, the more plausibly se'm to be, the testimony of
their enemies.
6. They, holding it better tobe spoken of in any way.,
than not to be spoken of at all; and· · . •
7. The specific object and aim of the forgery, not being
to what the· character of Christianity
(which they could easily and at any time vindicate,) but
s.• To represent Christians and Christianity to have ex-
isted, t11hen and t11hue they did not exist, to have had an ex-
tent ·of prevalence· which it .had· not, and to have been
of a degree of consequence and notoriety, as distinct from
any of the multifarious modifications of the ancient Pa-
.ganism, frpm which in fact and truth it was ru:ither dis-
tinot, nor distinguishable. · ·. .
But this celebrated inscription has at length served its
·generation; and it is now no longer indictable at common
.Jaw, to own the truth with respect to it, and pack it off
with Josephus, Leiitulus, Pilate, Phlegon, and all the whole
noble army of martyrs. The distinguished Spanilllh histori·
an, John de ·Ferreras, has escaped the inquisition, thop.gh
he has ventured to own that he could not restrain himself
from confessing,• '' that it was eveJl. Cyriac of Ancona,
who first foisted. this bit ·,of Christian evidence upon hu-
man credulity; and that it was from his brewing, that all
the rest of 'em filled .their ves8els, but now happily. any
one may judge of it as he pleases." . · . .
This allowance has emboldened Mr. Gibbon, who shows
in a note that he has read the pass&ge of Ferreras, to
fling stones at this inscription, and to say " it is a
• Je ,ne puis m'empecher d'obeel'Ver que Cyriac d'Ancone flit le premier qUI
pablia cette illleri:;rtion, et que e'est de lui que Jes Blltr!lfl J'ont wee; mais COIIIID8 Ja
hi de eet Eerivain estsupeete au jurment de tousles sgavans, que d'ililleurs il n'y
•a ni ni souvenir de eette iDseription dans lee places on I'out dit qu'elle •'elt
trome, et qu'oJI ne IC8it oula prendre .a preeent, ebaeua peat·en porter le' jaae-
mell& qu'il gemrak tJ'Eqogm, tom. 1, p. 192.
Dig,tizcd by Google
manifest and acknowledged .forgery, contriied by that
noted impostor, Cyriacus of Anoona., to Satter the pride
and"prejudices of the Spaniards."• He would have said
as much of the passage of . Tacitus, had he .but .found
another John de Ferreras; to pioneer way through the
brake.
SIMILA.It INSCJUPTIONS.
While the lie would do, nothing was.80 common or so
natural as that it should be often overdone. The advo-
cates for Christianity'once meetil)g a little success.in this
way, would turn every tnile-stone on the roads into a mon-
, ument of Christianity. More than a copy would be more
'than the worth of these to the emperors Diocletian and
Ma:ximinian; They rest like that to .Nero, on the faith of
Baronius.
. l. DIOCLET. JOVIUS. M.U:IMI. BERCULI:I.· CAESS. 1U9Q•
A.MPLIFICATO P:t;R. OIUENTEM. ET. OCCID. IKPER. BOK. K't.
NOHIKE CHRISTIA.NORUM. DELETO. QUI. BEI(P. El'ERTEJJ.Aln'j
and ·' ·
2. DIOCLETU.N CAES. AUG. GALLERJO. IN ORIENTE ADOPT
SUPERSTlTIONE CH,RISTJ. UBIQV. DEI,ETA CtfLTU DEOBUM
l'ROPAGATO.
Pr.ooopius'mentions a inscription upon two
famous pillarlil near Tangiers, · ·
H,.,., <XII'"' ·o, fVlone' cmo Iwsov -rov l>zM'OV ,.cov..NCW!f.-i. e. , I
" We are they who fod from the face of Joahua 1M rohber, W
«m of .NUn." . . · ·
Thus have we not. only forged writings, but pretended
monuments that never existed, to record events that never
happened. So reckless, so desperate, so audacious are
the tricks that .have been .resorted to, to give to Bible
8/ciology, an appearance of historical fact; that is, to bring
heaven and earth together. . · · .
··-
TACITUS, A. D. 107.
. W l have investigated the claims of .every document
possessing a plausible claim to be investigated, which
history has preserved of the transactions of the first
century; and not so much one.single passage,
' Gibbon; chap. 16..
Dig•lizcd by Google
ing to h&ve been written at any time within the fim hun-
dred years, can be produced from'any independent author-
ity whatever, to show the at or before that time
of such a person as Jesus Christ; or of .such·a set of men
as could be accounte'd to be his disciples.
After the many forgeries and .in.terpolations that have
·been detected in the texts of authors of high. repute, nay
the forging of whole booksaild palming them upon authors
established reputatio.n, .for the purpose of kidnapping
their respectability into the service of Christianity, and
fathering them with admissions, which they never made
nor intended it would have been next. to a miracle, if the
text of the great prince of historians, had been suffered to
come down to us unengrafted with ·a suitable recognition
of the existence of Christ, and of Christians: or if, after,
the shrewdest talent and profoundest learv.fng were en-
gaged in the service, the business of.ma'naging
such an interpolation had been left to hands that could not
have done it better than to fear detection from any ordi-
nary powers of criticism. . . ·
Eusebius had christianized Josephus ;· .it remained for
shrewder ma,sters of criticism, and the more accomplished
scholars and infidels of a later age to per(orm a re-
generation upon the text of Tacitus..
·This illustrious Roman inheri1s· immortal renown as an
historian, for his beautiful description of the manners of
the ancient Germans, his Life of Agricola, his History of
Rome, from the time of the emperor Galba to the death
of Domitian ; and lastly for his Annals, beginning at
Tiberius, and terminating with the death of Nero. He
was bor:n about A. n. 62, and wrote his Annals very late in
life, as nearly as probable conjecture can bring us, about
A. D. 107.
The first publication o( any part of the Annals of
Tacitus, was by Johannes de Spire, at Venice, in the
year 1468. His imprint being made from a single manu-
script, in his own power and possession only, and purport-
to have .been written in the eighth century. From.
thiS manuscript, which none but the most learned would
know of, none but the most curiouswould investigate, and
none the most interested would transcribe, or be
allowed to transcribe ; and that too, ·in an age and
co11ntry, when and where, to have suggested .but.a cl,Oflbt
agaiist the authenticity of any document which the
authorities had once. chosen to adopt ·as evidence of
o;9; ized byGoogle
t
•
. EXTBU'.U. · ETIDOOE·
Christianity, would have subjected the conscientious seep-
tie to the faggot ; froin thil, ali other manuscripts · and
printed copies of the wdrks of Tacitus are derived : and
cgnsequently in the forty-fourth seetiQil· of the fifteenth ·t
book of these Annals,-we have · · · ·
THE CELEBRATED PASSAGE.
After·a description of the terribte' fire at Rome in the
tenth of Nero, and the sixty-fourth of our Lord, in which
a large.part of the city was consumed ; and an aceount of
the order given for rebuilding and beautifying it, and the
·methods used to appease the anger of the Gods : Tacitus
adds,•· " But neither all the human help, nor the liberality
of the Emperor, nor all the atonements presented to
the Gods, availed to abate the infamy. he lay under of.
having ordered th.e city to be set on fire. To suppress1'
jherefore_, this common rumour, Nero procured others to
be 'accused, and inflicted · exqu!site punishments· upon
those people who were held in abhorrence for their crimes,
and Wtft"e COMMONLY knoum ·by tht name of CHRISTIA,S.
They had their denomination from Christus, tDM) in tht ·reign of
Tiberi-us, tDas put to death as a criminal by tht procurator
Pontim Pilate. This pernicious superstition, though
checked for awhile, broke out again, and spread, not over
.Junu, THE souRcE of this evil, but reached the city
also : whither Jlow from .all quarters all things vile and
shameful, and where they find shelter and encouragement.
At first, they only were apprehended who them..
selves of that sect ; afterwards, a multitude discovered
by them ; all which were condemned, not so much for the
.crime of burning the city, as for .their enmity to mln-
kind._ Their . were so contrived as to expose
• " Sed 11011 ope hu!u&na, nonlargitiom'b• Principis, ant plat:am.-
tls, deeedebat infa!Dia, ,qllin j11181lm .inceocfiWII erederetar. Ergo abolllllde
ramori Nero 1111bdidit reoa, et qulfBitissimis wnis adfecit, quos per ftagitia in·
vieoe, vulgus Chri8tianos appellabat. Auctor nominis ejua CKIUITtrs, -..r'i.berio
imperita.Bte, per_proe1U8torem Pontiwn Piiatam· aupplicio adfeetua erat. Re-
. in pl'lll80ns exitiabilis 1111pemitio nmas erumpebat non moda per J...
cheam, originem ejas mali, sed. per etiam, qno cuneta undiq11e aUoeia,
aut pudenda, eoaftuunt, eelebrantlll'que. ·lgitm J.>rimo eorrepti qui fatebantv.r,
deinde iodieio eorum, multitodo ingells, baud perinde merimine ineendii, qv.lm
odio humani Jeneris, eonvieti sunt. Et addita ludibria, ut feranuD
tergis conteett, Janiata eanum interirent,. aut erueibua affixi, &lit ·a.IUIIIIIalldi,
alque ubi defeeisset dies, in uaum noeturni luminis III'Oreotur. Hortos - ei
8(18Ctaeulo Nero obtulerat, et Cireenae ludicrum eilebat, habitu aurip pelplixtas
plebi, vel eurriculo insisteua. Uode quamquam advel'll1la sootea et aovisolima ex-
meritos, miseratio oneliatur, tamquam DOA utilitate publica, lied Uall&lvUm
- abeameteDtur... '
Dig,tizcd by Google
I
I
I
j
I:XTEIUU.L I:TIDUCJ:.
them to.derisiol'l and contempt. Some were covered over
with the skins of wild beasts, and torn to pieces by dogs ;
some were crucified : others, having been daubed over
with combustible materials, were set up as lights in the
niglit-time, and thus burned to death. Nero made use
of his own gardens as a theatre on this occasion, and also
exhibited the·diversions of the Circue, sometimes stand·
ing in the crowd as a spectator, in the habit of a chariot·
eer ; at other times driving a chariot himself;.till at length
these men, though really criminal and deserving .exempla·
.ry punishment, began to be commisserated as people who
were destroyed, not out of regard to the public welfare,
but only to gratify the of one man." . . ·
.
I consider this celebrated passage tq be a forgery or
upon text of Tacitus, from no disposi-
tion, I am sure; to gtve offence to those who may have as
good reasons, and probably better, for esteeming it to be
unquestionably genuine, from no wish to deduct from
Christianity one tittle or iota of its fair or probable eVi-
dence, but from a consideration solely of the facta of tht
MBe, which I here ·subjoin ; and which, if they shall have
less weight in the of tJie reader than of the
author : the .reader Will reap the advantage of holding
the opposite conclusion, not only in concurrence with the
decision of the wisest and best men in the world, but on
that surer ground. of satisfaction ·which every con-
Yiction. held, after .men have been so faithful to them-
selves as to weigh the objections that can be alleged
ngainstit. ·
The facts of the case are these-
t. This passage, which would have served the purpose
of Christian quotation better than any other in all the •
of Tacitus, or of any Pagan writer whatever, ie
not quoted by any of the Christian Fathers.
2. It is not quoted by Tertullian, though he had read
and largely quotes the works of Tacitus ;
. S. And though his artr'!Jllent .immediately called' for 1he
use of this quotation With so loud a voice,• that hie omie-
. .
• l1a hil celebrated ApoJocy, Tertlllliaa il 10 hot 1IJIOil tbe 1C811t ot &bil..-.e,
tba& ·bit JDi11iDt it blul it been ill eiil&eace, il alm01t mincaloa ID c;bip.
ter 6 of &bil Apolocy, be ..,.., "c-It your hiltoriel, tllere yo. ' w1ll
W tba1 N- wu tbe lint to draw tbe bloody ud imperial-ord tbit.-
._ ri1iDs ll Bome," Yet nea bele, be IIC8IIIlil. DOt oa thil timow,...
....
Dig•tizcd by Google
89& Erf&UAL I:VIDUCE•
.
sion of it, if it had reatly amounts to a .eioletat ...
robahility. . .. .
p 4. This Father has spoken of Tacitus in a way that it
is absolutely impossible that he shoul!ihave spoken ofhim,
had his writings contained such a passage.• . •
· 5. It-is not quoted by Clemens Alexandri'nus, who .set
himself entirely to the work of adducing and bringing tp-
gether all the- admissious and recognitions which Pagan
authors had made'of the e::dstenee'of Christ or Christiana
before·his time. .
, 6. It has been ·no where stumbled 01,1 by the iaborious .
and all-seeking Eusebius, who .could by no possibility have
mi8Bed of it, and whom it would have saved from the
labour .and of forging the passage of Josephus :
of adducing the correspondence of Christ and A.bgarus,
and the Sibylline verses ; of forging a divine revela-
tion from the God Apollo, in attestation: of Christ's ascen-
sion into heaven ; and innumerable other of his pious and
holy cheats. . ·
7. There is no vestige nor trace of its existence any
wherein the world before the 15th century. · · ·
8. It rests then entirely'upon the fidelity of a single in:-
dividual ; · · · · . . · ·
9. And he, having the ability, the opportunity, and the
strongest possible incitement'of interest to induce·him to
introduce the interpolation; . • · . ·
10. The pas&age itself, though unquestionably the work
of a master, and entitled to be· pronounced the chi[
d'a:tifwe of the art: betrays the penchant of that deligM in
blood and .in ·descriptions of bloody horrors, as pecu.liarlT
characteriatic of the Christian disposition, as it was abhor-
rent to the mild and gentle mind.and highly cultivated
• taste of .. . · · · ·
11. It beanJ a character of exaggeration, and trenches
on the laws of rational probability, which.the.writings of
Tacitus are rarely foundto do. · ·
12. It may be met and overthrown by the concusSion of
directly-conflicting evidence of.equalweight ofchallenge ;
a shock to which no ·statemenls of Tacitus besides are
liable. · · . ,
18•. It is not eonceiv.:t,Ie that Nero, who, with ·all his
• After other quotations from the writings of Tacitns,.Tenu1liul collthm. 11i1
argument: " And indeed that eame CorneliWI Tacitu, that moet .ofdl
be, in the aame history relates, 'At eaim Comelins·Ta.mta. IIIUle ilie
111111loqaaeillimua ia oad. hilt. re£ 81:.."-CNat• .KortlaoU, p. 272.
Dig,tizcabyGoogle
'1
i
\
I
J
' . .
191 '
crimes, wfts. at least not in the conunileion or crime ;
and paid at last the forfe1t of his life, not to private re-
venge, but to puhlie justice; for lese heinoll8 enormities ;
should have been so ludibund in cruelty, and wanton in
wickednell&, a& this passage would represe&t him.
14. It is not OOIW8ivable. that such good and innocent
people as priinitive Christiane muet be supposed to be,
shoUld have provoked great a degree of hostility, or
that they should not sufficiently have tndtared themselves
to their fellow-citizens, to prevent the-possibility of their
being so treated. . . ·
15. It is not conceivable, that so Juat a man 8s Tacitus
unquestionably was, could have-spoken of the professor.
of a purer religion·than the world before had seen, ae really
criminal, and deserving exemplary
16. The ·whole account is falsified oy the text of the
New Testament, in which Nero is of as tht .Minil-
kr God jflr good ; and the Chris_tians have the assurance
of God himself, that 89.long: as they were followers of that
which was good, there was oone tb.8t would harmt.b.em.-
See l Peter iii. 18. ..
. It ie faleified by the apology of Te:rtullian, and the
far more respectable testimony oO Melito, Bishop ot Sar-
ms, who explicitly states that Christiane, up to his
time, the third century, had never been victims of perse·
cution : and that it was in provinces lying beyond the
·ooundariee ofihe Roman Empire, and not in Judea, that
Christianity their teatimoniee in this
DIRGESIS. . . . . . : . -
18. Not a dispositioo. to reject Christianity, but an
eagerness •ad pronwtness to run after and embrace it,
has in·all ages- been the 'oonstitutioDBl cacoethes of the
human mind. . . .
. .,.l9r TacitUil.has in no other part ofhis writings made the
least alllwdon to Christ or Christians.
;SO.· The use of thia paaaage as ll pal"t of the Evideucts
of the'-Chtisian ReligiQil, abeohltely modem. .
\'1 ' ' j I f pd •j ::'
..
,•.. "' , .,., ; ... .; . A.. D. 110.
C. SuetQnius A. D. 11O, a Roman hiato-
of Claudius' who reigned frOIIi .&; D.
to 54; says, that .." he. the Jews, who, at the aug-
of .IUUcw.,:were coustantly Jioting , out of RQme.•
...'.'"'' iaipallore Cbnlto, Ulida6 . '..
36
898
a writer of the fifth eeutl'll'y, who
quotes the passage,.does not prettnd to know whether it
was the Christians ·or Jews who· were thus expelled.
Notwithstanding -the absUl'dity of the supposition of this
Chrestus being Christ, and of· Christ riou iD
· Rome ; this p888sge has served its as Chris-
tian Evidence. Dr. Lardner, however, that
" learned men are not satisfi:ed that this ·relates to the
Christians., ·
!. In his life of Nero, Suetonius eays, The Chris-
tians,• a race of men of a new.and villainous, wieked or
magical superstition, were with punishment." I
hope it may not offend them.,. to· hope that neither does
this relate to Christians.
8. In his life of. V he "There had beea
fO!' a lo(lg time all over·the· E81!1t, a firmly believed,
that it was in the fates · (in the· deotees or boob of the
fate!!) that at that time, some whioh tame ant ·o( Jud•
should obtain the Empire ofthe world."
This is as far ·as Paley, Deddridp, and other sophie-
tical Christian Evidence manufacturers, find it oonvenient
to quot-e the·passage. 1'lte finishing-would spoil.their use
of it---'"this it is, · · ! ·
" By the event it appe&'ed''t'hat ttiat predidian related
to 'the Roman Emperor. ·The applying it to them-
. selves, · · ·
JoeepbU8 hipteelf calls this an Milbigaous oJ.!aOle, ·811d
admits itl.l application V thoup feuad in
their sacred So little will the passage Bene
the·cause it\ whioh it hu been ewlisted. · ·
' There is no rea80flable · gtoUDd .fott d\inldwg. tllat 'bf
· Cltrtiftul; Suetonius ftlelant·E:hristtt$. · Chr-eetu i4Belf il-a
proper name .for any good man. by aaeet..ouriews
-coincidence with the of SuetooiUB, we find
the Fathers aotu:all1''1Jaft'*.c'oo the wm; holdiDg
it ·liS' -entirely'indifterent whedter- they were canea
tians, or Chrestifts giving equally abeuN a&d:ricfcUt Me
ru reasons for either the oae..u.ame or other, butnever
• .Amicti llllppliciil Cbriltllllli, ..,... bominliiD lllljla.moail ...,. e& .....
....... . !·. ' . . ' ' ' . · . . . . • •
.t opiDie, -ill fatiat & eo 111!1-
J'ud4!& profeett potirelltur. Id 4e Iinjleratore Rolii&MI, qWidal...._
poMea patuit, pnidictum Judim ad ie tiallafttM rebelinlllt. '· ' .
w't'"-'tlf"CI.._......,.,..._.. ...,..........
flJI' vo .lor••• .,,,..,""", ""
J01. lk 1', e•i;·llld. 4. · ·· · ' · ,, · ·. • " , ·· .' .
' "
,I
Dig•tizcd by le·
. I
399
Clsti11ctly pretendirtg to derive that name from any par-
ticular Christua, or Chrestua; .who had had a real
existence, and been the founder of their seci. The mere
Iotacism or change of the long E into 1, ·or 1 E,
Gften occasioned the supstitution of the one word for the
Gther. ·
1 '/7l$ diseipleB called. Christians firsj at .awch ; Aots
'Xi• .26, that is, unquestionably, they 888Ullled not the name
themselves, but it was given them by the Gentiles, in ·
whose sense of'it, consequently, the real meaning mit is ·
to be found. ·
.2. Justin Martyr, in his aoeount of the name, which he
gives in his apology to .4:ntoninus· Pius, thus puns away
all possible reference to the name of Chtist as the founder
of a sect. "We are called Christians. So then we are
the best of men (Chrestiails), and it can never be just to
nate what is (chrest) good and kind.•
S. Theophifus of Antioch, after a long. of puns
upon Christus, and Chrestus ; thinks that Christus, and
not Chrestus should be the word, of the sublime
signifieancy of Christus, which signifies " the sweet, and
agreeable ; and most useful, and never to be laughed at
article ofpomatum.t
" What use of a ship (he argues) unless it be besmeared 'I
What tower or palace would be elegant or useful unless
it were greaBed 'I" " What man comes. into life or enters
into a oonffict, without being anointed ? What piece of
work could be considered finished, if it were not oiled ?
The air itselfand every creature underheaven, is asit were
anointed with light and spirit. Undoubtedly we are called
ChriBtians for this reason, and none otlt.er, than because we ·
are anointed with the oil of God."t · .
Clemens Alexandripus,ll and St. Jerom,f
aboUild in the ·same strain.-Eva-y where we meet with
puns. and conundrums on the name ; no where with a ves-
• ""CJ' '1'0 8; 011
TIJTOt 117<11{/XOI'I"•-JUitifli .D.pol. .
tOn To ze•OTn.,.tv ""' lll..f(''IO'I'OY ltiJI •«•·-·.....1. lib. I, Ab
Autolycam. ·
*TotyiJ{/0111' 'll'"i TOIJTOII Xf!UITICH'Ot, OTI alcrtOt
8aov.-Ibid4m.
§ Cum perperam Chrisiianu pronuciatar, (puta Cbre1tiaD111) de navilate vel
btDipitate eompositum nomen M.-Terbul. .
II Quia apud GllllCOII, za'7111:o"'"' utrumque I!OJiat. Virtue eet leuil blanda traa-
ll'illa et omnium bonorum coDIIOrtio......H'uronym. in Gal v. 22.
'I oc "i Xf!"'<no& n IO'c .layo..n111.-Clemef&lil
Blntnmat. ·
EDKBJU.L
tige of the real existence of a person to .whom the D&JDe
'f88 appropriate.
o I
PLINY, A. D. 110.
Pliny the born A. D. 61.' He held 'impor·
tant civil and rehgious offices under the Roman Govern·
ment, was the personal friend ·or Tacitus, and was in the
year 106 sent by the emperor TraJan as proconsul into the
province of Bithynia., from ?(hence he wrote the annexed
letter : , .
" •Pliny to the emperor health andhap-
is my constant. custom, sir, to refer myself to
you in all matters..concerning which I have ·any doubt .:
for who can better direct me when I hesitate, or instruct
·me when I am ignorant. I have never been present at
any trials of Christians ; so that I knew not well what is
the subject matter of punishment, or of enquiry, or what
.ought to ·be used in either. Nor have I been
a little perplexed to determine whether any difference
ought to be made.oo of age, or whetherthe young
and tender, and the full grown and robust, ought to be '
treated all alike ; whether repentance should entitle to
pardon, or whether all who have once been Christians
ought to be punished, though they are.now no longer so ;
whether .the name itaelf, although no crimes be detected,
or crimes belonging _to name,,.ought to punish-
ed. Concermng all these things I am m doubt. ·
· " In the mean .time, I have taken this course with aD
who .have been brought before me, and have been accused
aa Christius. I h.ave.put the question to them., whether
they were Christians ? Upon their. confessipg to me that
tl}.ey were, .J repeated the questiol). a second a third
time, also to punish them with death.. Such
as still persisted, J ordered away to be punished; for it
• Solenne e1t mibi, Domine, 4l)l1Dia de q'uib111 dubito, ad te ref'erre : fjais enim
l'Otest melius vel cunetationem meam regere, -vel igaorantiam meam inatni-
Coguitionlbllll de. Cbriltiaaia interflll DWiquam : ideo vel quid vel quatenWJ aut
puniri aoleat aut queri, nescio. Nee etiam hmeitavi mediocriter, sitne aliquod dit-
orimen ootatum, an quamlibet teneri nihil a .rob118tioribua diJferant : detume p<Bni-
tentilll venia, an ei qui pronus Cbristiaoua fuit, desi- non proait : nomen
eriamsi flagitU. an flagitia nomini pUDiantur. Interim in ria qui
ad me tanquamCbristiani deferebantur, hunc lllllll eequutus mcidum.
an e.ent : coafitentes iterum ae tertio interrogavi. 1111ppiicio minatUa ;
duci jussi. Neque enim dubitabam, qualecanque esset quod fllteren-
pervtcaciam c8J:te, et inflexibilem obetinationem debere puniri. Fnel'lllltali
eimi1ie amentiee: quoe, quia cive11 Romani erant, annota'ri in urbem
Dig•tizcd by Google
401
we.s no doubt with me, ·whatever'might be the nature of
their ;opinioos, that .contumacy and inflexible obstinacy
ought to be punished. There were others of the same
infatuation; .whom, because ·they are Roman ·citizens, I
have noted down to 'be ·sent to the city. · In a short time,
the crime spreading' itself, even·whilst under persecution,
as is usual ·in such· divers sorts of people came in
my way. . An information ·was presented to me, without
.mentioning the muhor, containing the names of many
persons, who, :upon examination, clenied that they were-
Christilllls, or had ever been so; who repeated after me
an invocation of the gods, .and, with wine and frankin-
made .supplication to:.y:oul'> image, which for that
I had caused to be bllought and set before taem,
together with the statues of the deities• they
reviled the name of Christ.· · None of which things, as is
.said, they who are really Christians can by any means
be cc;>mpelled to do.. . These; therefore, I thought proper
to.discharge. · ·· . , . . · ' ' :
"Others were named by an informer, who at first con-:
fessed that .they ·were Christians, bui afterWards denied
it: lllld some, acknowledging that they had been, declared
that they had relinquished the ·profession, some above
three years ago, some a lol}ger time, and several more
than twenty ·All these.paill the accustomed divihe
ho:o,ours both to your statue and to the images ofthe
gods; lllld th.ey also They moreover de-
dared that.the whole of what was laid to their ·charge,
whether it were a crim&ora mere error, consisted·in'this:
,that they made it .a on a stated day, to meet .
together :before day-light,* to sing hymns
to Christ as a.'god, and to bind themselves .by ,a sol-emn
institution, not to any n<?t
Mox ipao fieri ae eriioi!le, plu.res epecieiilleilleiiint. Pro-
positus est libeUua, line ·andtonlll ;110milla eontinena, q1li ae esee
aat tiaille;qlllllll, pneeante me; d-·appellarent, et imagmi tiue,'quam
.propter boo j1181l!ftm CUID Bimaberis ahnninwn affi!rri, thttre.ac vino supplie&rent ;
maledioeren
. t Christo: CJ1IOI'I1Dl nihil·eogi dieuntor, qlli 811Dt revert
t Cbristialli. Erao dimiu.endo. putavi. Alii ab indice nomiaati, elise ae Cbrilltinaos
.'dixerimt, et mox nep.verant: rw.e qllidem, aed delliMe, quidam trienniwn,
qllidam aattl plDnll ann01, non neDIOetiam ante ·viginti CJlloque. 0DIIItl8.et
deoi'IIIDque aiinaJaora venerati INllt; ii et Christo maledixenmt.
•. . . .· ... .·· ·' " '
· '• If this ·letter· be genuine, these nociurnal meef.in&s were .wbat no pl'UdeDl
tovemmimt · could allow; tliex fall;r j11stify thn cbarpJ of CI8Ciliwl iD ;HinuU.
Felix, of Celsaa qrigen, aild of Lucian, the primitive Christians:..eta
llmlkiDg; n,ht-tlhlUIIiing,secret, mystical, freemattmry BOn of.
ipMdie pera1 welfare and peace of BOCiety. · .
86•
Dig•tizcd by Google
40t &V1DUOJ:•
commit any thefts Of; robberies t>r acts of unchastity, that
thev would never break their word, that they would ne'ftl'
vioiate a trust; tbat, when these observances were tipished,
they separated, and -afterwards came together again to a.
common and innocent repast; but .that .they had givell
over this last practice after my edict, in which, aooording
to your or«Jere, I forbad social meetings. Up()n' these
declaratioDI!, I thought -it requisite to get at the entire
truth by wtting to the torture two women who were
called deaconesses: .but I discovered beyond aa
austere, an exceesive superstition. Upon the· whole,
therefore, I determmed to adjourn the trials, in order te
opnsult you: for the case appear8. to me·to demand my so
doing, particularly on acoount of the great number of the
persons wllo are in danger of BUffering, For many of all
ages and every rank, ot both likewise, are
and will be aecused. Nor has the contagion of this
seizecl cii.ies only, bUt the country.
It however, still seems to me, that this evil may easily be
restrained. For it is assuredly, suflicieni!y obvious, that
it is upon. the decline. The temples which-were a little
while ago almost deeerted, begin to be resorted to, aa
usualt and victims, which hitherto hardly found a pur-
ohaser,. are now :in full request: whenee you may natu-
rally suppoe, that a multiiude of men might be reclaimed,
if allowance were granted to their repentance."-Pirty'l
book 10, le#er 97 . . . . . •
. little room for doabt·of thegenuineneaeand &11-
thenticity.o£this leiter there;may seem to be, We oughtBOt
to have knowu thattbe name of Clt.rislitms was common to
1l8ntutem; haJic tbiMe li1amn:iam ·vel 'cDlpm lllllli, velerroris, quM elllel¢_aolid 1111110
4le·allt8 iueilm eoovemre; ·ChristO, qllllli Deo, dicere 88CIUII mviCeaa;
111111.1111 IJoil iD a!iqJIDd aed ne ftuta, :ne •
ldulteria committerent, ne fidem fallerent, ne depositum appella
. ti
bl!t aibi dilolldllllllli tUae, coii11Jida all eapieodua em-.
et iunomm;.qtllld iplulr.c-.-- pollt edietuJD - .
.QW-Pnm .m.m-
didi. ex cblNiusallcllbs qg JDIIIIjltne, diabaatu, qUd_._t veri et per to..-ta
quaere. l5ecl aillil.aliud invelli, quAm111pe!lltitiollllm Jlll'vaDl et immodicam. Jaeo..
• tedllcuai. Visaflit eraim mlhi..,. dipa eea-
}liOpt.er n-.un. II.Jti aUm. ilmnil ....
omnil; in perioulllllt, et TOt'l&hmtar. N....
e&iamatq118..,. iltiall OOJltapt,...
flit: videtur aisti et conigi Certe •tis prope jam._.,
• .IIIPlJIIa -pil11e eelebrari, et .era diu intennillla repeti:
viOdmlirqurum 1rdlmC l'aria&imils emptor inveniebatiu.. EX qao &cile 41
si
'
i '
o;9,tized bvGoogle
Jj:VIDENCJI. 40$
the ·wonihippers of g'Qd_ Serapis: and the name of
·ChriBt eolbmon to the whole rabqlement of gods, kings,
and priests;.that the practices described in this letteJ;, are
DOlle other than were common to innumerable sects- of
cracked-brained pagan visionaries; and that the observers
of theae practices were generally found to suoh.despe-
rately wiclf,ed ·characters as are ever prompt to turn faith
into faction, and religion into rebellion; so that·no
and pnulentmagistrate oould be indifferent to their mach-
inations, or not feel himself bound to use all the powers
whh which the laws invested him, to sift the principles
aad grounds of their combination, and to make himselftho-
roughly acquainted not only with all that they professed,
but with their .arctma interiora, the more·interior. secrets,
poliey, of their institution. We cannot ima-
gine, that 110 WJ.se-&nd good a man, ·so just and candid a
magistrate, who evidently wished to make the best of the
C88e for the accused party, would conceal f,l.-om his friend
and· master, Trajan, any thing in their· favour that had
come to lUs knowledge. ·
Did they:ieU him, then, that they were the followers of
a religion wlUch had " God for its author, happiness for
its end, and truth without any mixture of error for its
.
DKl they 'tell Jam that they were the disciples of one,
who then, and yet within the memory of man, had a
real eDrtenoe, had taught a purer morality, had wrought
miftolea, had died,- and risen again to life?
Did they lay down the important distinction between .
, tae "teachersent from God;" and·the innti.merable Christs,
Me.dalw,. ·Emmanuels, Logoses, Words, and Messengel'8
of the· mythologyt in that HE was the of
history; drflJ the figments Of romQ.ilce, that "HE was real,
an empty name." ·
Did·they 1!10 much as mention the name ofJesus of Naz-
areth? Did they r.efer to one single circumstance of hie
life u aman, or drop an enigma that coul«;l set the n:Und
to guess at the Galilean rather than the Stagyrite? or
m.ai:e it more probable, that they meailt the ·man of Naz-
areth rather than the Cacodemon of the Forest? No! Not
BO:lhing of the sort! not a text, not an iota, not a vestige
of Chri"tianity in her. · We have the name of Christ,
au« uothing else but the name, where the name of Apol-
lo or ·BaecllUs would' have filled up the sense· quite as
:well. .... ·, ... . . . . .' . . . .
o;9; ized byGoogle
- to·IWPreSent·them·a8 · u
.u · fiools, liars, madmen, ·and idioer,
but above all, to treat. both them .and their writings, with
the aovel'eigu . the best tfley ean
make of bad bargain. . · . ·
t •
8JIJElT&TUs, A. ·D. 111.
Alllave, in body lame, ·as 11'1111 pOor1
Yet tO the Goda was Epietetus dear.•
.· ·lie is.placed by,Lardner about A. D. ·109, and, in 'his
Emhiridion, or Manual of Moral ·Virtue, OCCU1'8 the siDRle
.Uueion whioh may be supposed be contained in the
sentence here subjoined:· . .
· " So it is possible that a man may anive at this temper
aad become indifferent to these things from mamu., or
from habit, as the Galileans."t . · . ·
In ,Dr. Lardner's oolleetion of the Evidences of die
Christian Religion, this mode of e:x.preeeion is of aulicient
eonsequence. to be introduced with his rem&Tk, l B1wuld
r.U.W tl&ink that Christians are intended, p.·49.
. 'fLllTAitCH, A, .D.1;4A). . .
In his dialogue ·d. tk{etlu Omtul9rum, relates a ·strange
atory about·a matl'belng ctivinely admonished to cry out
"TaE -aaEA1' PA.N ·u.. JJtun.'' ·Huet (and· other equally
learned and imparti&t Christian htmters)
that hereby the dea1h ef Christ, who is the TRUll: PAN, the
}m'ent.of .all thing8,.and the Mlihor of all·nature,,_ no-
tiied to' heatheii peciJple. .. . .• . . .. . •
.
. ' o to : ,• ' lo, i, :d • I ·i_
· -··-· --.:... !f • .\ 1 I
, , .Jl:!V:t:NAL) D. 1,]0. .
. The ROman in ;his; first satire, haa.three
line" .sli,ilicient to. eupply a .. allusion to the sufFer.
lqgs of the.primitive. Ch.ristians, and. a .frightful
to the oongenial taste of 1}Je.admirers of the pooket edi-
o£. .... · · . . . .. .
. ". .ani you &han,suffer .the ....
purushment with those who burning ,in their own
....'I'hil diatich, ia Greek f8UIIdly die ponnlitnf 6il.-
moo&.ee tb. lwnuua-.. · .· , . .
. f tu• .,.o lt"1'441"" clw.J:G• Til -•., ._.,..,
111 oa FII1UG&o1. . . .. .
Dig•tizcd by Google
r
I
I
l
fta.me, their head being held up by a stake·fixed to
ehin, tillthey make a lpng stream of blood aD,d melted sul-
phur on the groond·."•-Paley's f'Mdtring. .
THE EMPEROR ADRIAN, A. D. 184.
The ktter oftM E'ftlperor .fldnan (o hiJ brother.;in-law &manw,
written in the year 134, and preserved in Fla"iua Yopicw, who
, flouri$hed about A· D. 800. ·
t ''Egypt, which you commended to me, my
Servianus, I have found to be wholly fickle and inoonstant,
-and continually wafted about by every breath of fame.
Tqe worshippers of Serapis are Christians, and those ·are
devoted to the God Serapis, ·who (I find) call themselves
the bishops of Christ. There is here no ruler of a Jewish
no no Pre_
spyter of the Christians,
who 1s not either an astrolQger, a or a minister
to obscene .pleasures. The very Patriarch himself, should
he come into Egypt, would be required by ·some to worship
&rapia, and by others to worship Christ: They have, how·
ever, but one God, and it is one and the self-same whom
Christians, Jew$, and Gentiles alike adore, i.e. money."
Coincident with this unsophisticated te8titnony, is the
charge of Zozimus, that the Emperor·con-
stantine le'arned the Christian religion from an Egyptian ;:t
. and the fact admitted by Socrates, that the Cf'088 was found
in the temple of Serapis,§ and claimed by his worshippers
....ithe symbol·of their religion.
· THE. MARCUS. AURELIUS ANTONINUB, TBJ: PHI•
' , . LOSOPHER, , A. D. ·tSO. . •
of·the twelve books of his meditations,
apeake of a .\>ecoming fortitude of .soul, as wholly of a
,ichar&eter to that . obstinacy, a.s .of. 11M
. ,: • ' . ir tltda hacebJ,ill lila ·
. .. . · ar.&eot, .qti,ho . . •
. • . . Et 1at11111: media deillaCJ.t arepa."'7"JtW•• v. 1&5. •
1·Adnan111 All!· Berv1811o S. " N.cvtlt'!Uil quam mibi laiidab1111 8eniae
peai1dMo .-aaIIIIJlia wDtalaali.
Ini qui Serapim colant, Cbristiani IIDDt : et devoti 81Ult Serapi, qui ae Christi ..,..
·dieut. Nemo illie DeiiiO Samari&el, ·DilDO
Cbriatiaoorum presbyter,-11 Mathemaliou, ·- Aralpu, Alipta lpe ill
ia Nc1pt1B ab .aliie Serapidem ab aliil oap.r
. • • • • • .u- illill Deus .. hue ludtli, luuac .........
et gentee. '
' · ·
·.. .,._.,._...;,..-.m-'lllii-DIItall•· · ,. . .•.·
Digitized by Google
Cltrilliatv. The single phrase •• ..rcJ•n•.Ot, " lib lhe Chfv..
lians," is the whole amount .of.this testimony. ·Nor is it
oertain whether by the name of Christians, he means.the
worshippers of Christ, of Serapis. Below is the whole
context.•
· M.· VALERIUS. MARTU.LIS1 A. D. 110.
Contemporary. with Juvenal, has an epigram, the gist of
is to ridicule'the folly ofgiving the credit of rational
fortitude to those fool-hardy wretches that rush on volun-
tary sufferings, and who would stand to be baked·in· ovens,
or hold their limbs over red hot coals,.for the pUl'pose of
exciting sympathy ; .who, it. assumed, could be no-
body than the pr1m1t1ve Chr1st1ans.
·" In matu,tina nnper speetatu arena
M11cios, impasUJt·qui focia 1 .
Si·patiellB lc:irtilque \ibi BluwqU& videtV
Abderitua'peotoa pleltil bal)ee ; .
.Diem C!IID dicallu tunic& pnf.aeDte moleeti..
t1re man11m : plu est dicere non facio!'
As late yousaW·in early mol'lliDJ's show,· ·
Mucius, the fool, on red 8&'hell gtow.
If lirave aod patient, thenc&, he- to thee,·
Thoa art,melllinkl, U'lfl'llta fool.u be;
For in robe of pitch, the fire prepared, . .
The wretch woulcl bum, becaD8e the people:lltPid.
! ' ' ' '
. Al'ULEius, A. D. 164.
Of' Madaura, wrote a fanmstical boOk of metamorpOO:
ses, probably in principle somewhat similar.to that of Ovid.
QI,U beaters up eviden<?es.pf the·Chriatian:religiQn. have
enlisted this work also ; and in a rfdiculous story in
a man Wt¥J.iqetamorphosed an ass, and in
that mcarnabon, sold. to a baker,-descnbes his mistress,
th'e' bakers wife, as .a red hot virago; ·an adulterous,
drunken thief, cheat; scold, and 1ie.r; but with all (as sueh
generally ·peoulia.rly We are
to 1magme that· we· have some .
l!IOJ:t of eVldence of the
()f C4ristiahlty. · Dr. Lardner·concludes, "there
Clan be.no doubt that Apuleius here designs to represent a
Dig,tizcd by Google
_I
llX'rllBNAL EVlDENCE. 409'
' .
Christian No doubt, no doubt ! 'Tis hard to tell,
whether.Christianity· or the ladies owe him the profounder
courtesy. ·
With' all deference to the judgment of Dr. Lardner,
I venture to suggest, that this passage has not the re-
motest relation to that evidences for the Christianreligion,
which he wishes to bring forward. It bears a strong indi-
cation of the better and more honourable rank which the
wife held in the' domestic economy, under the ancient pa-
ganism, a fact which .he and all other Christian advocates
endeavour always to conceal; It indicates the prevalence
of that better feeling towards the fail' sex, which would
have shuddered at the indelicacy of dragging virgin-n10-
desty into the_
presence of a liquorish priest, to utter.an
enforced acknowledgment of sentiments, ·which, whether
felt or.not1 were never meant by nature to be acknowledg-
ed, and to make vows .and pledges of abject subjection
and obedience until . death, beyond all measure of obliga-
tion, in which any rational and being could be
bound to. one who may become false, and so deserve to
be forsaken ; may become tyrannous, and therefore deserve
to be hated. This discovery of the domestic
economy under pagan auspices, i8 strongly corroborated
by.the fact, that among the paintings found in the ruins
of Herculaneum, is a chaste and beautiful figure of the .
V (Yenus a of
donuruon enJoyed by the .Wlfe m.dome,stto affa:trs.
Hence as Festus under the artiCle observes "the
keys were consigned to the wife, . as soon as she entered
her husband's house. To this purpose may the custom
of the Egyptians be observed, among whom, the wife
ruled in the private concerns of her husband ; and accord-
! • ingly in their marriage ceremonies, he promised.to obey
1 her."* Neither Christians nor,Turks have ever been just
I to -----
LUCIANua, D. 176.
. A pagan satyrlst, is by far the most explicit·and diffuse
,of.all pagan writers; who at arty tiine within the two first
in avara, in
Mer, 'liostis pildro1\ioo.' Tunc spreti& a"'ae calcatill divinls numwbasm VJcam certa1
1 -'ip>niS mentita praumptiooe Dei quem pnedicaret unicam eonBtic:
l. tit; o'beervationibas vani& falle111 omtulll bominea, et millerum maritum decipi8111,
, matutino. mero,.et continuo stupro eorpas Mancaparat. Talis illa mulier miro me
peiiliqitektur odio nam et ante lucano JeCUbBDI &dhuc subjungi machine Dovitiam
'
clamabat aainwn."-Ita citat LtW4fttritU, Tom. 4. p. 107.
• UDiv. M.... 117A, .P· 184. . · ·
-..r•.. >! 86
r
I
Digitized by Google
.flO SXTEBNAL •
eentories, have taken notice of the existence of the
tian sect,. and of. their doctrines as distipguiehable in
tbose early times, from any or all the other modes of piety.
-His testimony, though so mueh later than that of Pliny,
is entirely corroborated by it, and of the utmost conse-
quence w the establishing of the historical · fact of die
real state of things in hia time. The only reason I can
conceive, why our Ch.ristian evidence writers have made
so.little account of thls heathen restilJl.ony, is, that Chris-
tian evidence have ,in general been tinctured.with
Unitarianism, and therefore, rather willing that the cause
of Christianity should lose one of its main pUlars, than that
it .should rece\ve support from one, ·which, at the same
ti.me;dem®strates, that the doctrine of the Trinity was
really the earliest and .purest form of Christianity ; and
col!sequently, Christianitr be .true.or false,
Uil1tanan scheme 1a as unauthonsed m history; as 1t 18
beyond all absurdities that even were in the world, the
most and inulently absprd. · Luciaft had seen
and conversed·wiih St. Paul, had from him, imme-
diately, what .his doctrine was-and even gives us a
·description Qf his person, as well as of the manners and
charaoter of the Christian sect ; ·which after all the de-
cluotion, that we can rea24?nably be required to make from
testimony, as being that of an retains the OOfoo
countenance of every other document on tile
subject of which we aJ."e in possession, not excepting that
of the. New Testament itself. In his· dialogue, entided
Philope&tril, under the character of Triepb.on, he describes
· their form of oath, as being " by the Mgh mg,Mg, gr-,
immort4l, father, the 80n of tht fittMr, and 1M .pri1
proceMing from tht jathtr ; om in tl&ru, and ·tl&rM it&- OtN.,,.
The same diologist continues, "· I shall teach you who the
true Jlut is ; and who was berore all things-for I for-
merly underwent the same things··as you, wheJl that
.Galilean, (Paul tht Apostlet) met me, that bald-headed,
hook-noaed fellow' who went up through the air into the
_third hea.yen, and there taught the beetthings ;§ aad
who hath regenerated us by water, and hath mode.u tD
walk in the steps .of the blessed, and redeell,led ua fr.-
the realm& of the wicked ; and I will make you· il Jell
aJ:'IaU.U. :&TIDUC:E. 411
will hear man ·indeed."• The description of the
apostolic 'ehief of sinners, here drawn indeed by an un-
frindly hand, is singularly supported by all the bas
relievos, sculptures,• and celebrated · paintings of his
penon, in whieh, in addition to the squabby figure.
bald-head, brows, and prQdigiousJy large and
hook noae, be IS invariably represented ·as PQt-bellied
and bandy-legtged. ·He .indeed describes himself as hav-
ing. a particularly mean aDd dirty look, and a stammering
voice ;t that he .could hardly stand on his feet;t. that he
was subject to fits, and severely aillicted with a disease,t
which cannot be spoken of but in periphrases.
Jn hi'B dialogue concerning the death of Perigrinus,
Lucian speaks of the object of the Chrietians' worship-
as a crucified. sophist!t Little stress is laid however, by
Christians on this admi.sioil, though ita authenticity is
far less questionable than that of Tacitus. It is seen at
once that this testimony does not pledge Lucian to .an
()f the crucifixion, but is his report of
the report which Christians had giv:en of themselves; as
that of Tacitus is no more, even if it were genuine. Nei-
ther Lucian nor Tacitus were believers.
Lucian baa however, the same dialogue, a far more
explicit to the then charac:ter ofChristian.s;
tells us, that "whetlever any crafty :iuaRler, .expert m his
trade, and who knew how to mate arignt use of things,
went over to the Christians, be•was sure tb grow rich im-
mediately, by makfuga prey oftheir aimplicity."§
Al'CI:&NT WRITERS, WB081: WORKS STILL BBMAIKIN'G, WEal\
WRITTEN BETWIJD" .A..- 85, AND .A.. »· JOO. .
I. Those who have mentioned the Chriatian&, wrote
about:-
•· n. l0.'1 C, PUP-ius secund jun. in his 96th·epistle.
110 C. Suetonius TPanquill, in his Life of Nero.
. 11(1 €ornel Tacitus, in hie Annals 16. A. 44.
• 8,..711(1 ao ;w-e '1'4 11.-IN,"'"'TIS o :rrq..,.. .. 711(11rqtllp' •C.,.•
,-GIIn. I:IJ'IIIIf,fCII', G11'1q ati, 1/I'Ulll cJo 1'01 rlllcla&OC UITVZIP, CWIIfGlGIPI'&GS 111''(1ql1'0f
IS'I'q&Tcw 11(1..,;..,. a•W=Ifi'IIS, "'"' Ta .olluna "' Wcn-os ¥111 .,,.,......
""'" IS 'I'!J &zt'Ctl 11'11f11WIIf11 •11• '" 'I'IW Gtii{JIW
U1fr\'0"'11'1'•, "'"' 11'0Uif1111 'I' ,.,. GK8'fC, 111'' auaon-
late p. 142. . · •
t 2 Cormth. 12. 7. ; 4 Galet. 18, ; 1 Cole.. 24. ; 2 .Connth. 11. 6. i-
1 Corinth. 2. 3.; 2 Corinth. 6. IS.; 2 Corinth. 10. 10.
*To• apaaxolo11'ta,.,...,. '"'"'o• aotp&CI'f'l" GII'I'IW.
§ This is quoted before in the chapter on I have aiiiO ba-
h qaoted the TJ:ITIKOlfT OJ' p. 876, aa atiefactorily proTiD& the
W.tity or St. PUll, clil&illlcti•ely fiom this teltimony to the cbuac&er of CJuit.
tiuity.
o;9; ized byGoogle
411 E_XTIUUUL ETIDUC&.
lSS The Adrian, in his epiatle to Servianua.
180 M. AurelAntonin, philos., in.his Meditations, B. 11.
176 Lucianus, in his dialogue on the death of Pere-
·grinus, and in his Philopatris. · . . !
176 Celsus, in his "Essay on the True Word;" rest-
ing the Honour of Origen. .
11. Those who mpposetl by some writ'era on the
Christian Evidences, to have alluded to the Christians;
wrote- about:- ·
.A. D. 98 Dio.Prusmus, in a particular
100 M. Valer Martialis, in the quoted in this
DJEGESJS. •
100 Dec jun. Juvenalis, in three lines quoted in this
DIEGESIIJ,'
109 Epictetus, in a single phrase quoted in this 1
DIEQEIJS. . .
140 Arrianus,t in·the use of the same phrase. •
164 Lucius Apuleius, quoted in this DIEGEsn.
176 Aristides, in the use ofa particularphraae4
III. Those who wouldbe likely to refer to the Christiane
. but who have not done so; wrote about:-
A. D. 40 Philo.
40 Josephus · .
·.·.·. \ 79 C. Plinius Secund, the elder.§ Philosoph.en•
....J69 L. Ann. Seneca · ' S ·
'79 Diogenes Laertius
.79 . G h
. 79 Pompon .Mela : S eograp .en.
79 Q. ·Curtius Ruf. 1
. 79 Luc. Flor ·
l!S ·Appianus · Historians.
' ·140 J\J8tiuus
141 &lianus
• o, who cut away eff1t1 dac·-.Dio Prwt.
t .n, o•-r...t..t..o-tike tbe ·
*To'' •• ndGuJT'"'I tbe impiov people iD. Paleltiae. ·
§ Bodl tboee pbil010pberi were liviD&, and lll1l8t Jiave experiellced the imme-
diate or received the earliest information or the exiBteoee of 1-
Cbqst, bail 811Ch a perwon ever existed; their ignol'lllee or their wilful ailence
on die subject, is not leM than oatraroualy improbable. Whateter mipt be
their with reepect to tbe doctrinee of Jena; tbe minlcul0111 dark· .
neM which is said to have aecompanied hie cruciflxion,-Wa8 a·speci!'l of evideJI('e
tllat mlllt have forced iteelC upon their - .. Each or tbeee
a labOrioilll work, haa recorded all the sreat or nature, earthquake-.
meteon, comets, an.d eclip!lel, which bis indeCatisable curioeity could collect ;
»either of them have mentioned, or even alluded, to the miraculoua darU. at
the crueifixion."-Gibbon. Alas! tbe Christian is colllltrained to own that oiiiJii.,
potence itaelf, not-omnipotent. ·
o,9,tizcd by Google
EXTEllNAL EVIDENCE• 418
.J"V. ·Those who were less likely to allude to the
tians, yet tnust have gone somewhat out of their·way, on
purpose to avoid doing ·so; wrote about- ·
•· D. 68 Aneneus Lucanus
· 64 Petronius Arbiter ·} Poets.
64 Silins Italicus
65 M. Ann. Lucanus
66 Valerius Flaceua
62 Aulas Perseus
Papinus Statiua
100 Quinctilianus
180 Ptolemreus
Observe too, that in the Cqrpus Juria, or, whole body of
Roman law, there is not extant one word against the
Christians. -: c., ,...:: . ,..
In apology for this tremendous deficieney of evidence-
Dr. Lardner pleads in mitigation of the follow·
ing instance of a similar deficiency of h1storical evidence,
in cases where the fact is nevertheless held to be unquee-
tionable. ·
.1. Velleiue Patereulue is mentioned by no ancient
writer except Pri8cian, though that historian certainly liv-
ed·and wrote at the time of Tiberius.
M. -Annmus Seneca, the futher of the phnoeopher ie
almOst unknown.
3. Lucianus has never mentioned Cicero in his enco-
mium on Demoethenes.
4. Ma'J'.imus Tyrius (who wrote in the ti:tne of Antoninua
Pius,) has no reference to the ROman History...;..To thie.
we may add:- · ' ·
That and Thuoydidee have never·mentioned
the .Romana. · .· ·· . · ·. ·.' ·
. .
Here is distreee indeed! To pul'IIUe the evidences of the
Christian religion, aftet we have seen its inoomparably
Jr/ I. f .'
· ·learned and able advocates thus on the
a .of reckless sophistry: alter we have driven the
-.'Dtr!D'Iers for a grasp·on historical fact, to the last trick of ·
ering together such tltouland tnilu off mtiy-be'• of mere
·we 811U8ion,-and then showing us the lettered backt!l
;their huge collections as " Yolumu of
dri • the drift. · · · · ·
·II of the Christiail religio.n, arejret!IUDled '
. be,·ita diVine.effects upon the -dispoeitiODt··an conduct
S6• . ._
,, .
Dig•tizcd by Google
414
' '
of.its professors; the peculiar and liberality of
Christians ·towards the enenues and opposers. of their
faith; their willingness to have its foundations thorotighly
sifted and examined; their readiness at all times · to ac-
-quaint themselves with all the objections that can be
brought against it, by whomsoever, or in what manner
soever, those may their abhorrence
of all acts of slander and defamation, for the sake of
excusing themselves from the trouble of enquiry; their
immaculate innocence, not only of persecution direct and
.overt-but of the ·dispositions that could poesibly lead
to persecution; their more rational piety, their more ex-
alted virtue, their more di1fusive benevolence. Alas! where
are thoee evidences?
We have. looked for historical evidences which might
_justify a rational man to him8elf, in believing the Chris-
tian religion to be Gf God. And there are none-abso-
lutely none. We enquired for the moral effects which the
prevalence of this religion through so many ages and
countries of the world, has produced on men's minds, and
we find more horrors, crimes, and miseries, ooeasioned by
this religion and its· bad influence on the human heart,
mor.e sanguinary wars among nations, more bitter feuda
and implacable heart burnings in families; more deaola·
tion of JB()ral principle; more of every thing that is evil
.and wicked, than the prevalence of any vice, or of aU
vices put together, could have caused: eo that the evi-
dence which should make it seem probable·that God had
desig!Ded· this ·Niigion to pl'eT8.il among men, would only
go to all'ow he W designed toplagUe &Dd cu:ree them.
But not so; Christian, hold first! and ask thine own heari
"if theu iall ....c.tJirtRpl Q4 foeNMy. · Aek thine bWn con-
victions, whether, if a religion were the wi<Kedeat .tha
ever upon earth, and as false as it was wicked, God
himeelf·eouWgive.thee any more•liJrely or fairer and auf.
ficient Jllle8lllllf. to·emaneipate thy mind frotn it, tlwl the
meane·th()U .fiat here (if thou wilt Uile them} to di8cover
the real origin, character, and evidences of Christianity.
If .theN there is any God at au,. at any r&te, thou
it " God and;so wre u
he 18 so,.·eo :lUIIe 1tts, that·the pertinaoioUB belief of· 8111
thing-u tnte,-WIUeh might by the free exercise of.'·ottr
rational faculties, come to discover to :be false, · il'tae
gpeateet ,,Ht. !that··maa O&n ;ec;wnit impliCit
faith(i.t<tlle;sreateat«,«imes;·and the implioii'beliewt il
the most Wicked of mankind. · · · .
Dig•tizcd by Google
- .' 1
APPENDIX.
0
N
2
S!
C!
0
•
JWfUSCILIPl'S OP THE NEW TPSTAIIENT.
Nca-. Jlge.
Plcau where deposi-
ted.
n. AlaadriuliSiatb Centvy; ITbeBrnilh ••
CUiimirOI!diD 1'111•
• ,. tbe 1eDtb. .
-
Tbe 'Vaticu, DO-:
ted 1209.
The CambriiJie,l"Perhapl ot all
orCorcleaBeD.
•• DOW utabt tiJi
• tbe JDOIIt en-1
ciaat."-Bp.
lriUib.
Jrutory. Pre1ent Condition. .lutlaorily.
CD
..
..
i
F
0
'§
N
-'l
Ci
0
a
(0
Tbe · Clennont,fSeYeDthc.otary.,ln the Royal
orReps, 22411.1 . · a& Pari&.
t wu firat found in the 'Greek aDd Latin ; eontai111
' n u t e
. • ry_ of Cluny; called Cler- Epildea, but that to .the Hebrews editol'B. Prof.or
ont, from Clermont in Beau- by a later hand ; like other GllllCO· Scbweyhiiaeen,
vaie, where it was preeerved ; Latin codicea the Greek has .been quoted by Bishop
leavea of it stolen by ommodated to the Latin. Marsh, vol. 2, p.
·ne John Aymon, 1111d eold in 245, et eireiter.
laud, but since recovered.
Tbe _Epbrem. In the Royal LibrarJIF'ust discovered by 1111111y leaves 1011& editonof
· • a& Pari&. 'lin the of the 18th m1111y wholly illecible ; the whole the improved N-
,tary. efFaced to make room for the woriul Tstament.
1bf Eplvem the Syrian, UDder·wbic:
,the sacred text may be perhaps
·,pherefl by traneparency.
...
Ali the manu-IGod Jmo-.
from,
. .
18 librarian eold them"to !IIlii Toryo, who dealt in fiJOe works, as Mamh'a MicbaWL ;:
,ateriaJI fQr making sky-rockJlts. The statements of the Uni- vol. 2, part i. p.
which ourprea-, · editon that dieae MSS. were of little vlf.lae, is an Unitarian 441.
.ent-it ie not &rae.
enrte.xt wasta-
ken.
Besides these, there are above twenty other manuscripts in large letters, of different portions of the
New Testament, and some hundreds in small characters. It appears from the subscriptions of very
many manuscripts of..which we are in possession, that they were written on Mount Athos, where the
monks employed themselves in writing copies of the Greek Testament. Some manuscripts, ascribed
to the highest antiquity, have been discovered to be the composition of impositors, as late as the 17th
century, for the purpose offoisting in favourite doctrines, and imposing on Christian credulity. The
Montford and Berlin MSS. for instance.-.Marsh, v. .2, p. .295. · .
,.
-
-a
..
418
Al'fCIE!n' VERIIONI or TBE NEW TE8TAJlENT,
1. -a-The PEsHITo, .the ·most ancient Syriac ver-
sion, brought into Europe, A. D. 1552. Printed at Vienna,
at the expence of the'Emperor Maximilian.
2. The Pan.. a later Syriac version, made in
the sixth under the inspection .of Philozenll8,
Bishop of Hierapolis. Published at Oxford, by Profe8801'
White, A
..D. 1778.
8. The CoPTic, in the ancient dialect of the Lower
Egypt. Still read, though it is not understood.
4. The SAHIDic, in .the ancient of the Upper
.Egypt.
5. The ETHIOPtc; used in Abyssinia. First published at
Rome, A
. D. 1548, by three Ethiopian.editors.
6. The ARMENIAN, made in the fifth century; No genu·
ine copies in existence. ·
7. The PEasiC, there are two of this olass: neither very
ancient; the one a from the Syriao, the other
from the Greek.
8. The LATIN, sometimes in distinctiQn, oalled the llalic.
These very translations of the Greek text as it stood in
the most ancient manuscripts, were in general use in an
age that precedes the date of any manusotipt now extant.
9. The VULGATE is that Latin first corrected and pub-
lished by the monk St. Jerome, A. D. 884, by order of Pope
Damasus, and by the Council of Trent pronounced a.-
thentic; so that no one may dare or pretnane, under anr
pretext, to it. ·
All the Fr,ench, Italian, and· Spanish bibles that were
published the were taken whoU,
from the Latin.--Jlfimh s Micl&aelV, vol. 2. p. '1. •
I conclude this general synopsis of the ancient versiona
of the .New Testament, by a striking .and spirited censure,
(as applicable to the great author from whom I quote so
as to the'most of his which I
find in a very able ·entitled publisheAI
by Murray, 1822, to inquire whether the Helle-
nistic ·style (that of the Greek Testament) is not Latin
Greek. " The opinion that the :Epistle to the W8l
originally composed in Latin, is not only •upported by the
Syrian scholiast, but has conjectured by several
Dig,tizcd by Google
APPENDIX. 41.9
theologians, chiefly of the Roman church ;• which, to the
shame of Protestantism, has allowed far greater freedom
o£ discussion to its members than .has ever been enjoyed
J.n those churches which profess ta make free inquiry the
boon they offer, and the very badge of their dis-
tinction. In fact, it is difficult to say, wh!¥ has been
secretly discovered or not discovered in biblicial criticism
and theology, ·ns authors, on these topic8, have hitherto
w:ritten in fetters : and many of them; probably, have sup-
pressed .much of' their real sentiments, from an anxiety for
their repose."---'Palaoromaica, p. 186. '"Could this learned
w:riter have more significantly given us to understand, that
divines have never yet had courage enough to be honest
men? ·
EDITIONS OF THE GREEK TESTAMENT;
t. The CoMPLUTJ:NsrAN PoLYGLOT, so called from Com·
plutum,the ancient name for Alcala, a Spanish University)
and polyglot, of many tongues. Published at ·the expence
and under the management of the celebrated cardinal,
statesman, aBd warrior, Francia Ximenes de Cisneros, the
st.9ad of March,·1520, by permission of Pope Leo X. Only
600 impr..ions were taken oft
2. A. D. 1516.-Eunms, at Basle in Switzerland, pub-
lilhed.an edition, from a few manusCl'ipts found in
neighbourhood-a second, a third, and, lastly, in A
. D· 1527,
a in which, to obviate the clamour of bigots, he
·introduood many .alteratiol)s, to make it l\STee with the
edition of Cardinal Ximenes. · · ·
8. A. D. l55.0. -RoBERT STEPBJ:Ns,f a teamed printer,·
at Paris,·rublished a splendid edition, in which he availed
himselfo the Compluterisian.Polyglot. It abounds with
though long supposed to be a correct and immacu-
late work. '
4. .!. D. 1589.-'i'at:oi>oaE BEzA. successorto John Cal·
vin, at Geneva, published a critichl edition, in which be
made use of Robert Stephen's -own oopy, with many
• Were common Bente eonsalted ib matters of biblioal eritieian, what wollld
llay to the nppoeitioA that an Epiltle to the Romans ebcllild be written ill a Jan.
par oC which Romant were utterly igllorant I or to the faet, of she maay
words ill the Greek Teetament which .are nothing more than Latin word& writtell
ill Greek eharacten, and sueh .
u no Greek writer of those woald either ha-q
usedor known the 1188 ofI · ·
t He first introdace4 the divilllon of the text of the New T-.meat 11110
- .-MicAulil, vol. 2, pt. I, ,p. 627.
Dig,tizcd by Google
APPUDIJ:;
additionalvariousreadings,. from fifteen manuscripts,which
had been entrusted to the collation of Henry Suphenl, the
eon of Robert, a youth of eighteen years of age.
5. A. D. 16.24.-The ELZEV.IR EDITION, published at Ley-
den, at the office of the Elzevirs, who were the . most
eminent printers of their time. The editor is unknown.
This edition differs very little from the text of Robert
Stephens ; a few variations are admitted from the edition
of Beza, and a very few more upon some unknown
authority ; but it does not appear that .the editor was in
possession of any manuscripts. The reputation of the
Elzevirs for correctness of typography, and the beauty of
this speciinen, raised it to the pinnacle-it was· unac-
countably taken for granted, that it exhibited a pure. and
perfect text. This, therefore, became the standard of all
succeeding editions, constitutes at this day 1M rectWed
tezt.
EUROPEAN
A. D. 900.-Valdo, Bishop of Frising, caused the gospels
to be translated into Dutch rhyme. · · .
1160.-Valdns, 'Bishop of--, caused them to .be turn·
ed into French rhyme. We may gueee how closely the
original would be adhered to .in these poems.
1860.-Charles the• Wise is said to have caused them to
be turned into French prose.
1877.-Jobn Trevisa translated them into English.
. The art of printing was discovered A. o, 1444; the first
printed book in England was published by Caxton, A. o.
1474, the.18th of the reign of our Edward IV. 'Before
this time our Christiata countrymen; generally, must have
been entirely ignorant of the text of Scripture. ·
1517.-William·Tyndal made the best English t1'8D8la-
tion of the New Testament, and was put to death for hav-
ing d()ne so. .
1611.-The !eventh of our King that is, .217
years since, is the date of our present English translation ;
iin the preface to which, the translators admit, that they
·themselves did not know whether there were any transla- ,
·tiou, or correction-of a translation, in existenCE:, in King ·
Henry the Eighth or King Edward's time. The groundof
1 • The ordie varioas ia admitted to be tit one hundred and
Ithirty ;.the toJal nUDiber of wordll il oae haadred aDCl eipy one tboG-
IIaDCI two handred and fifty-three. · . . . . , 1
. . . ... . \, ..,
, \ .,
' \
.
l
•
411
o'l\jection adduced by the puritans against the Church of
England Liturgy, to.King James I., at Hampden Court,
was, that it maintained the Bible as tlaere translated, which
they said was a most corrupt translation. In the justice
ofthis complaint, originated our present translation under
patronage of that "most high and mighty prince, James,"
which the Roman Catholics, with equal justice complain,
that it egregiously Protutantizu, and purposely gives a ren-
dering to innumerable phrases, devi15ed to hide and disguise
their original monkish and papistical sig-
nificancy.-Ward's Errata o . the Protestant Tramlation, arid
Joh.ntiO'R's o the seoeral English Translations -
ofthe Bible. .
SPURIOUS PASSAGES.
Pa8Baget of the Tutament, retaiftld and circulated as the
Word of God, or as of authority tDith the rut, lhough.
known. and admittecl an all hands to be forgeries.
Acts xx. !8.-1 Timothy iii. 16.-1 John v. '7.-These
are admitted to be of the utmost importance, bearing
on the most essential doctrines, yet are wilful and wicked
interpolations. . .
Matt. vi. 15.-The whole of the doxology at the end of
the Lord's prayer. - · ·
John v.-The whole story of the Pool of Bethesda.
Luke xvi. 19.-The whole story of the. Rich.Man in
Hell-fire. · · · ·
John viii.-The whole story of the Woman taken in
Adultery. · ·
Luke nili.. S9.-The whole story of the Penitent Thief.
Acts ix. 5, 6.-The whole paragraph of Christ's Speech
out of the Clouds.
The whole of the subscriptions at the end of the Epis-
tles, wherever found. . ·
The whole of the titles and superscriptions wherever
found. ·
of the Neu Testament reJected by the German DWinu,
and most eminent Christian cntic8, scholars, and
ofEurope : or held a8 at least, INFINITELY SUSPICIOUS.
The whole of the Gospel of St. John, from beginning to
end.-Brettehntidefo.
The whole ofthe Epistle tothe Hebrews: ofthe Epistle
of St. James : of the 2nd Epistle of Peter : of the 2nd
Et>ietle of John : of the Sd Epistle of John : ofthe Epistle
,S'7
•
APP&Iml%.
ofJude : of the Revelation-" Not fit to be alleged as If.
fording sufficient proof of any doctrine."-Dr. IATdner.
The whole of the last nine verses of Matt. i.
The whole of the second chapter following. .
The whole of the one hundred and twenty-six verses
immediately following Luke's preface.
The whole of the Story of the Angel and the bloody
Sweat, (Luke xx. 48.)-Unitarian Editors.
The whole story otthe Conception, of the Slaughter of
the Innocents, of the. Devil and the herd of Swine.-Dr.
The whole of the genealogy of Christ, as appearing in
St. Luke. ·
Tlie whole of the story of his baptism, of his transfigu· ·
ration, of his calming the storm.
•The whole of the gospels of St. Matthew, St. Mark, and
St. John.-.Eoaruon. . .
The whole of the Acts of the Apostles was'unknown or
rejeeted by many sineere professors of the Christian faith
in the fourth century.-Chrysostom.
The whole of the Epistle to the Romans, the Epistle to
the Ephesians, the Epistle to the Colossians, the 1st Epis-
tle of Peter, the 1st Epistle of John.-.Ecanson. .
Bishop Marsh makes a droll apology for the blunders of
Matthew, Mark, and Luke, which he. maintains to be per·
fectly compatible with divine inspiration : " John, who
wae inspired aswell as they, had the advantage of haviDg
4 bttttr memory." They had all of them need ol good mem·
ories, or there is no truth in the proverb.
It is the unquestionably ChristiaA, and insurpaaaabl1
ltamtd Evanson, who exclaims, "Gracious God! have
mercy upon the presumptuous Jolly and madneu of thy
erring creatures !"-.DUson.at.ct, p. 8.2.
·FALSE REPRESENTATIONS.
1. It is a false representation, or what would be called
in common parlance-a lie, upon .the title-page, ·where it
is represented, that the New ·Testament is " translated
out of the. original Greek," seeing there never was any
original Greek. The original of Matthew's gospel is be-
lieved to have been Hebrew. · The Epistle to the Ro-
mans,.and indeed, the whole of the New Testament, ex·
isted in a barbarous monkish Latin, from which the old-
est Greek manuscripts in exiStence are but barbatou
tranalations.
Dig,tizcd by Google
APPii:l'fDIX.
The circulating the whole as the word of God, and
as of equal .authority, notwithstanding its containing sev-
eral forged and interpolated passages, admitted so to be,
by the circulators themselves.*
8. The repr,esenting Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
as the authors of the gospels which go under their names ;
in the teeth of evidence, that those gospels are blundering-
compilations from some previously existing document or
documents.
4. The representing .these compilers of· previously
existing documents, as contemporaries or witnesses of the
transactions which their compilations detail. .
5. The multiplying the number of pretended witnesses
to the facts of the gospel, by representing those as wit-
nesses, who are only said by other persons, to have been
witnes$es. · · · ·
6. The fear of making inquiry whether these things are
so, from the fear of they are evtts 10.
• 7. The taking any means, fair or foul, direct or indirect,
to prevent .the.knowledge of · coming to be generally
and extensively spreg.d.
8. The giving cunency or credence, to all manner of
scandal, slander, and -evil speaking; and heaping aU pos·
sible calumnies on the motives and characters of those who
labour to undeceive mankind.
9. The prosecuting, persecuting, and seeking to destroy
or drive out of life, those who exert themselves to provoke
inquiry, and to diffuse sacrifice their own
interests to the public good, and prefer the luxury or
making the world in which they live the better, to all the
luxuries the world can give. · .
· tO. The ta'!Png no notice, .or. affecting to take none, ot
the objections to the evidences of the Christian religion.
which have arisen upon admissions and surrenders which
have been made· by the ablest divines of the present cen-
tury, and on the improved science of criticism, OJil both
sides ; and then pretending that there is no Bove)ty. in the
objections of modern infidelity ; or that the objections of
the present century had ·been sufficiently refuted by the
Watsons, Paleys, Lardners, or Lesltes, of fifty or a hun-
• Yet tb- propBglllldi8t8, propapting in God's name what they Jm4w to be a
- , would, to be 1111111, pass themselves off for honest men--aye, as boneat as the .
clippers and cqinem who pay their way with a great deal of really sood money,
ooly slipping .iii, here and there, a known dnmp. If, in ou ell ou bish-
ops, and clergy, and all of aU 10rte, stiU concur in cireulating or eoun-
taaancing that as tnlth, wbieh tbey know to be falll&, wbat ebuce. tiUai we, laAd
tnatli iu the l&nlgle, in olden time l ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
4!4 .APPJ:l'O)IX.
dred years if, after admissions had been made,
which had never before been admitted ; no room had been
given for objections to be made, which had nevea)lefore
been objected ; and, while the press has teemed with a
thousand better modes of defending Christianity, unbe-
lievers had been asleep all the while, and dreamed of no
adroiter methods of attacking it: or, as if the Alleys,
Beards, Belshams,Chalmers, Channings, Collyers, Elsleys,
Hartwell Hornes, Pye Smiths, Wilsons, Marshs', &e., and
the whole Christian phalanx of the pl'esent generation, bad
had no scope for their prowess but on the dead bones of
Tindal, Voltaire, or Paine ; and were the succes-
sors only to an inglorious war, of which the conquest and·
the laurels had been won before they were born.
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES•
.AN UPLIC.ATION OP SOIIB TEaMS .AND .ABBUVI.ATIONI WJIICB OCCOll
IN &CCLZSI.ASTIC.AL BlsTO&T.
. A.U., J1nno Urbil, is the year of tbe foundation of' the city of
Rome,• according to Varro's account. . ·
A.U.C., J1nno UrbiB Condilta, or Jlnno oh Urbe Condeta, is the
same se011e more fully expressed, i e. in the year from the building
of the city.
A.D., Anno .DomUai, or the year o( the Lord. Since the con-
version of Coustantine, .A..D. 311, it denotes the vulgar Christian
era, according to which Christ is supposed to llave been bom Dec.
25, in the 45th of the Julian period, and '754th from the build-
ing of Rome. This calculation, though sef!ing the purposes of
general reading, is known to be defective. Lardner says, " Our
Saviour was bom in the reign of Herod the Great." BUtit is cer-
tain that Herod died before the Passover, A.U. '76!, T8l'f probably
in .&.u. '750 or '751. ·
We learn from Josephus,t that the Procoratorahip o( Pootiue
Pilate co!"eaponded with the last ten years of the :ru»eri-
us : that 18, from .&.D. 2'7 to .a..D•.35. Aa to the. particular time of
the death of Christ, a very early tradition fixed it to.the 25th of'
March, .&.D. 29, under the consulship of the two Gemini.! This
date is adopted by Pagi, Cardinal Norris, and Le Clerc. The vuJ..
gar era places it, without any known reason, four later.
The J ULI.AN PERIOD is an epoch, so called from Jutiu Cesar.
. • Romulaa commenced tbe buildiDg orRome about '761 :rem1M6te die Cldii-
IIUleera. .
t Alltiqai&al. 18, I. *TerllllliaD, lilY. 1llllllol,o. 8.
Dig,tizcd by Google
4PPENDfX, .
The first of this epoch, when Cresar's reformation of the
Roman year took place, commences the first ofJanuary,.A. u. 709.
· A. M., .8rmo Mundi, i. e. the year of the world, ridiculously
fixed at before the birth of Christ. Julius Africanus, a
Christian chronologist, who wrote A.. D. 220, insists that the
world was ·made on the first of September, and was exactly
5508 years, three months, and twenty-five days old at the birth
of Christ. The learned Dr.• Lightfoot thinks he can, with great
probability, settle the precise time when the Christian covenant
began. ·He says, that "Adam was created Qn Friday morning,
at .nina o'clock ; that he ate the forbidden fruit about one, (that
being the time of eating) ; and that Christ was promiled about
three o'clock in the afternOOn., So·nicely accurate is our religioua
chronology. · .
But never be it forgotten, that the application of chronology
to matters of faith, is entirely of modern invention. The Apostles
themselves, and the most primitive fathers, who understood every
thing allegorically, never dreamed ofgiving us any more particular
indications of date to the sacred story than the common preface
to a fable, "Jlnd it came to ·paa• in thole day•." There are no -
references to contemporary circumstances in the New Testament,
but such as are outrageously at variance · with historical fact.
Those_ whom we should be taught to speak of as living in the first
time of (Jhristianity, speak of themselves as existing in the last
time, .and as knowing it was the latt time.• Those who are
believed to have flourished when Christianity was in its most
P.rimitive P';'rity, complain ofthe prevalen?e.ofits corrup-
. boo. Justin Martyr, the first of the Christum apolog.sts; 18 out m
bia chronology to the difference of 300 years, and makes Ptolemy,
kiDg of Egy_pt, IU!d Herod, king of Jerusalem, contemporaries.t
----
THE REI(;NS AND ORDER 01' SUCCESSION 01' THE ROl!U.N
E..PERORB, DU..ING THE I'OUR. FIRST CENTURIES 01' TBK
· CII.RUTUN .&IU.. • . .
. . . Fmt . . . A.».
Av.GUsTus, having reigned 44 years from the .defeat of
Mark Antony, and 57 .fi'om the death of Cresar,
died, - - - - - - - . August 19, l4
Trn:an1s, began his reign, - August 19, 14
CuiGuLA., began his reign, March 16, 3'7
i.CLA.unius, 'January M, 41
Nno, • · • - October 13, 54
GnBA., reigned from - June 9, 68, to Januarr. 15, 69
()ruo, · - January 15, 69, to Aprill6, ..;..
'·
f On o Cllf'I'J'mll' ,11t1V..V1 fJqOII"""'X• .,.. ....., ........ ....._
·Filavorr' Bfw'll......8pol. I, p. 49. · · · ,
Dig,tizcd by Google
4!6 APPE!fDIX.
VJTELLJus, reigned from
V&sPA.IIuN, began Iris reign,
June 2, 69, to December 21,
:' July 1,
TITUS, . ..
DoM&Tu.N,
N&RVA
TRAJAI', '- . •
-·
--
. June !U,
September IS,
18,
· January 27,
A.D.
69.
79
81
i6
98
Suond Cmbwf.
Adrian began his reign, - · - - August 10, 117
Antoilinus Pius, July 10, 1S8
M. Antoninus Verus Aurelius, the March 7, 161_
Commodus, - - - - - - March 17, 180
Helvius Pertinax, - December Sl, 192
Didius Julianus, - - . - March 28, 19S
Septimius Severus, - - April IS, l9S
Tmrd Cetalury.
Septimius Severus reigned to, - :- - 211
uo
Antoninus Caracalla, - ·
Macrinus, - - . -
Antoninus Heliogabalus,
Alexander, -
Maximinius, ·
Gordianus,
Philip, - • -
Decius, -
Gallus, lEmilianus, three months, - -
Valerianus, and his son
GalienU., · S -
Claudius, - · - -
Quintilius, only seventeen days io,
Aurelianus, · - - -
Tacitus, only six months, -
Florinus reigned 80 days,
Probus,
Carus, a
Dioeletian, ·-
Jl'otll'fA Ceftlury.
Diocletiao reigned with
l'tfaximianus, . S
.-
-
- 224
- 240
- 246
t54
- 255
266
- 1'71
!'13
- t'rS
2'76·
-I !'79
- !86
i8'J
- 301
Constantius with
Maximinus, Constantius surviving, S - •· Sl8
.MagnU8, - . - - • . • - SS8
Constant1us, Jun., Con&tantiU8, and Constans, . • · - 366
Julian, began Dec. 11, 005, died; - - - 387
Jovian, only seven months,·
Valentioianus; . - • • • - • - · -
Valentioianus, jun., Gratianus, and Theodoeiue·Mapwr, -
Dig,tizcd by Google
S'l8
399
APPD'DU.
..H& JfAKal AJfD 'ollD.Jl o• IVCCJI:IIIOJf. 01' 'l'BS CBilb'l'IAJf I'ATBJI:Ill.
AU who lived and wrote at any time within the first century, so
as to fall within a supposition ofthe possibility of their having seen
or conversed with auy one\lr more of the ApOlities themselves, u-e
on that account called · \
. The JJpoBtolic Falker..
These are five only : .
St. Barnabas
· A.D.
St. Clement, Bishop of Rome, called therefore Clemens Bo.
manus
St. Hermas, brother to Pius, Bishop of Rome,
St: Ignatius, Bishop of - -
St. Polycarp, Bishop of Smyrna, - - -
Fatlura of the Second Cemury.
Bishop of Hierapofis, - - -
Quadratps, a prophet at;ld apologist, - -
Aristides, an Athenian philosopher and apologist,
1Egesippus, an ecclesiastical historian,
Justin Martyr, - · - - -
Melito, Bishop of Sardis, :-
apologist; -
Dionysius, !Sishop of Corinth,
Theophilus, Bishop of Antioch,
Irenmus, Bishop of Lyons, -
Pantmnus, Master of the Alexandrine school,
Clemens Alexandrinus.
Father• of the Thil·d Century.
Tertullian, a ]>riest of C11rthage, - - -
Minutius Felix,
Origen, . • - - -
St. Gregory, the wonder worker,
Cyprian, Bis\lop of Carthage,
Novatian, aspirant to the see of Rome,
Lucian, Presbyter of Antioch. - . - .-
FathtrB of tlu Fourth Century.
Peter, tenth Bishop of Alexandria, - . -
Arnobius
·Lactantius
Arius, and his follower, -
Eusebius, Bishop 9f Cmsarea,
Constantine, Emperor, - -
Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria,
-·
Damasus, Pope of Rome, - • - - . -
Basil the Bishop of Cmsarea, in Cappadocia,
Gregory Nazianzen, . . - - - -
Gregory, Bishop of Nyssa in Cappadooia,
Ambrose, Archbishop of Milan, - -
.Jerome, Presbyter and Monk, - - -
Augustin, Bishop of Hippo Regius, in Afiic-,
--
•.
_101
119
- 130
140
141
163
16'7
181
- 182
.193
194
- 202
210
230
- 243
248
- 251
000
306
- 316
316
316
' - 316
9261'
3'70
3'70
- 370
3'71
- 374
392
• S96
Dig,tizcd by Google
!'hry808tom, Bilhop olCoDitaotinople,
:nnoeent I., Pope ofRome, - -
398
400
THE NA.M:£8 AND ORDBK OP SUCCBUION 01' TD CBBift'J.Alf
Hymeneus.
Aleunder. '
Philetus.
Hermogenes.
Demas.
BEKETIOS
The .tlpollolie Hmtia.
Diotrephes. · _
Doaitheus, a Samaritan, who set himsel( up as the Messiah.
Simon Magus, stylin4t himseiCtk great pottJW of God:
Menander, a pupil ofSimon Magus.
Nicolas, founder of the sect of Nicolaitans. mentioned- fl Re1t.
6. 14. 15.
Cerinthus, against whom St. John wrote his gospel. •
Basilides, who taught that it was Simon the Oyrenian, and not
Jesus, who was crucified ; while Ohrist stood by and laughed at
the mistake ofthe Jews; his n_
otion was adopted by Mahomet, and
is seriously maintained the Koran.
Oarpocrates, worshipped images of Jesus, Paul, Pythagoras,
and Aristotle, &c., as having equal claims on human auper-
lltition.
HERETICS OP TBB SECOND CBNTUJlY.
N azarenes, a continuation ofthe Therapeuts, ·
Ebionites, a poor sect of Unitarians, who fell into the wild con-
ceit that Jesus Chiiat was a mere mortal man; and had a corporeal
existence. · ·
A.D. 114. Elkai, founder of the iJect of _
the Elceeaitee, who
maintained, that Jesus Ohrist was_ a certain power, whose height
was fl4 schenia, i. e. 66 miles, his breadth fl4 aod JY.
thickness proportionably wonderful. · ·
They who receive the book called the Acts, or Journies of the
A.postles, Peter, John, Andrew, Thomas, and Paul,--ears the
teamed and pious Jeretqiah Jones, must believe that Ohriat waa
!lot really, but only appeared as a man ; and wu ·seen by his
iisciples in various forms, sometimes as a young man, aometimes
as an old one, sometimes as a child, sometimett great, sometimes
mall, Aometimes so tall, that his he.ad would ·reach the douds,
hat was not crucified himself, but another in his stead,
·1fhile he stood by and laughed at the mistake of those who
that they crucified him. Jonu OA IAe Ccmoa, TOL 1,
>. 1i. .
Satuminus of Antioch.
Cerdo of Syria.
Dig,tizcd by Google
Mareion ofPontus.
Valentine of Egypt.
Bardesanes ofEdessa.
Tatian ofAssyria.
Theodotus. ·
Artemon.
Hermogenes.
Montanus.
..
APl'JU'fDIX.
It would be idle to attempt to assign to each heresiarch _the
particular tenets upon which his sect was founded. To the variety
of combinations which madness may form, madness only would
-seek for definitions, or care for them.
Were there ever any tw<1 congregations of Christians in all the .
world, who exactly agree in teUing the Christian story in every
respect in the same way ? They who were nearest to the foun-
_
tain head, were farthest from consistency. Upwards of ninety dif-
ferent heresies are admitted to have existed within the three first
centuries.
.JEWISH AUTHORS.
A.D. 40. Philo Judmus, a native of Alexandria, of a priest's
family, and brother to the alabarch, or chief J magistrate
in that city. See the large ue of hiB tutimony by Eusebiu, pen in
lhiB Du:oEsls. ·
A.D. 67. T. Flavius Josephus, the well known historian, or
rather mythographist ofthe Jewish wars. ·.
The version or first translation of the Jewish scriptures into
Greek, made by 70 or 72 translators called in proof, the Septua-
gint . is properly the Alexap.driao version, as having been . made
at Alexandria in Egypt, about 250 years B. c. Not only the
Old Testament, but the New, wae entirely concocted and got
up by these Egyptian monks, who from their far famed university
of Alexandria, dealt out at their pleasure, the credenda that have
since regulated the taith, and subjugated the reason of man-
kind. In a we owe every iota of the Christian religion
to the Egyptian monks, and the facilities afforded for overbear-
ing the -
resistance of reason and common sense, by the collecting
bringing together of all the powers of imposture into the first
of these mischievous and wicked cabals, those chartered pha-
lanxes of confederated knaves, which have since been called
tmit1ernties.
A.D. 128. Aquila of Pontus, a Gentile conven to the Christian
faith, lapsed into Judaism, and translated the Old Testament.
A.D. 175. Theodotion, also a Gentil.e convert, lapsed into
and made a very literal version of the Hebrew scriptureS.
A.D. 201. a Samaritan, flrst adhered to the Jews,
then turned Christian, and afterwards turned Jew ag;n; made
Dig,tizc.rl by Google
• 430
a n3w, _but rather paraphrutical, translation of the Old
tament.
TB& N.llll& AND OJlD&& OF SUCCESSION OF WRITERS WHO J:[Al"B
DIII.&CTLY OPPOS&D TH& CHRISTIAN FAITH.
The prioeipal are :-J, Celaus ; Hieroclea ; 3, Porphyry ; and
4, Julian.
Of these, the writings only of the Emperor Julian, who comes
far too late in time to be of consideration-have come down to .us.
We have nothing from the pen of but what Origeo, who
attempted to refute him a hundred years after, has chosen to affili.
ate upon him.
.We gather that Hierocles opposed the character of the philoso-
pher Apolloniua of Tyana, u a real character and a better exam-
ple ofmoral perfection, than the imagined hero ofthe gospel.
,Porphyry acquired the surname of the virtUOUI; and brought sw:la
formidable objections to the Christian story, that all his real writings
were by the order ofthe C.briatian Emperor Tbeodoaiua, commiUecl
to the flames ; and such writings only as Christians themselves bad
forged, permitted to come down to posterity under his name.
BCCLESUSTICAL HISTORIANS.
A.D. St5. Eusebiua, Bishop of Cmaarea. · .
Theodoret of Antioch, Bishop of Cyrus.
A.D. 439. Socrates of Constantinople, a lawyer or
hence sometimes called Scbolastieus. He wrote an eccleaiaatical
history fi'om the accession of Constantine, A. D. 309, to .a.. D. 439,
with uncommon judgment and · .
A.D. 440. Sozomen (Hermias) of Bethelia, near Gaza, in Pal-
estine, composed a history of the same period, as the two prece-
ding writers ; his style is superior to that o( Socrates ; but hill
judgment must be inferior. .
A.D. 425. Pbiloatorgius of Cappadocia, wrote. a history of about
a hundred years from A. D. 325.
A.D. 595. Evagrius Seholasticus, Prrefect of .Antioch. His
.l!;eeleaiastical History extends from A. D. 431, to A. D. 594. "It it
much loaded" says Elaley "with credulous accounts of miracles."
A.D. 401. Sulpitius Severus, a Latin Historian, of Aquitane,
m France, and a priest, bas left us a little history of the world,-
brought down to A. D. 400.
A.D. 1333. Nicephorus Callistus, a monk of Constantinople.
His lustory is weak add full of idle fables.
THE ECCLBSIA.STICAL COUNCILS.
A.D. J. The first held at Jerusalem, was a meetmg of king
Al'.
HDIX. 481
Herod and all the cliief.priests and scribes of the people, with the
wise men of the east, to inquire where Christ should be born.
A.D. 12. " A council of priests, whereat Jesus Christ was
admitted into the holy order of prietrthood,-a jury .of midwives
having been impanneled, and upon due scrutiny had, on the body
of his inother, having given in their unanimous verdict, that her
virginity remained intact."-So far the learned Suidas, as he learn·
ed of a Jew.
A.D. Council of chiefpriests to make their bargain with
Judas Iscariot for the arrest ofJesus Christ.
A.D. 32. A Council of chiefpriests to defeat the testimony of
the soldiers who kept the sepulchre. ·
A.D. 32. Council of the Apostles to elect Matthias into the
apostleship in the room ofthe traitor Judas.
GENERAL COUNCILS•
. A.D. 47. Council of the Apostles concerning circumeiaion.-
./Jcta of the ,
A.D. 66. of the Apostles to elect' Simeon Cleophu
2nd Bisbop of Jerusilem, to succeed James. ,
A.D. 70. Council in which the apostolic canons are pretended
to have been agreed on. , · · ·
A.D. 99. Council of Ephesus for the rtjOf'fllQ/.iQra of the
churches and consecration of Bishops, at which John the Evan-
gelist was present ; and being a priest, as we,leam from Polyctates,
who had the advantage ofhim in being a bishop, wore a • seapqla-
ry.or surplice. ·
A.D. 163. The Council of Ancyra in Galatia, to suppress the
errors of Montanus. ·
A.D. 179. Councils .in France and Asia, against the heresy of
Montanus. ·
A.D. 199. Council at Rome touching the celebrati&a 'ofEaster.
Vietor Bishop ofRome, excommunicated all the eastern churches,
for their difference on this subject.
A.D. 248. Fabianus, Pope of Rome, iniraculously electefl by
the Holy Ghostperching upon his head in the shape of a dove ;
in synod denounced'the schism of Novatus. .
A.D. 204. Council of Carthage under its President, Cyprian,
fell into 'the heresy·of re-baptizing heretics. ·
A.D. 21I . A first and second council of Antioch, for the con-
demnation of, and degradation of its Bishop, Paul of Samosata.
A.D. 295. Grand Council of 300 bishops and SO priests, at
Sinne•a, where Marcellinus, Bishop of Rome, was condemned for
denying Christ, and sacrificing to idols.
Dig,tizcd by Google
APP&DIX•.
A.D. SO'f. Council ofAoeyra, where such as sacrificed to idoll,
were allowed to be received under c.ertain conditions, and deacou
who could not contain, were suffered to marry.
A.D. 327. Grand Council of Nice in Bythinia, under the pree-
idency of Constantine the Great, gave us the God of God·creed'
used in the communion service. Pappus, in his SynOdicoA to the
council of Nice, asserts, that having promiscuously put all the
books under the communion table in a church, they besought the
Lord, that the impired records might get upon the table, while
the spurio118 ones remained underneath, which accordingly
pened.• · ·
A.D. 368. Council of Laodieea. This council first, and not
that of Nice, is supposed to have given a catalogue of the books
contained in the New Testament: not including tbe Revelation.
A.D. 397. The third council of Carthage ; present, Aurelius,
Bishop of Carthage ; Augustin, Bishop of HiJ?po, and other
bishops. Of this council, the 47th Canon ordiUDS, '' that nothing
beside the canonical scriptures be read in the church under the
name of divine scriptures." All those contained and arranged
as in. our present Old and New TestamelAs, are in this caaon
enumerated as being canonical. . · , ·
A.D. 401•. The council ofChalcedon. Here first the NewTet-.
tament was set in the midst of the assembly, as the great appeal.
Yet St. Chry808tom, who died A.D. 407, assures us, that in histime,
the A.eta of the ApoatJes was a book· by many Christians, entirely
unknown.
"The canon of ihe New Testament," says Dr. Lardner, "hU
not been settled by any authority that was decisive and universolly
acknowledged, but Christian peoJ?le were at liberty to judge for
themselves, concerning the genumeness of writings propoled to
them as aP,!)stolical ; and to determiJie according to evidence."
Even so late as in the timeof the historian Cassiodorus,t wh011
Dr. Lardner places at .A..D. 556.
There are reckoned in all 17 general councils, but the -of
them are too late in time, or too irrelevant to any bearing on the
historical evidences of Christianity, to come within the scope of
this Drzozsrs-the council of Trent, A.D. 1549, is the last of them.
Augustus the monk first preached Christianity in EnglaDd
.A..D. 59'7. • .
The inhabitants of England beilll PicU, or painted savages,
first embraced Christianity, A.D. 698. Clwonol Table of Et:alll'•
Skdcha.
Dig,tizcd by Google
J:CCLUI.UTICll UV&l'ft1B8.
of tlte. Clergy of Gil the ChtisritJn World.
NatioDS.
lllld,
ales.
d.
dud.
-
8co
F
8
p
paiD.
•nqal:.
and
llftPY• ..
H
I taiy.
Aatria.
ennan !tate&•
ollua.
Netherland-.
Dtmmark.
81ndeo.
RaE..
Turkey.
North America.
Soutb America.
D' raed }
Deaomiu-
UoJII.
{Prom
Cathll. &c.
Catha
other Seclll
Pre. ..
{cat:r
{ Catbl
Prote
Catbs
· Catha
{ c&tba
Prote-
Catbe ·
Prom
Greeb
{ catbe
Prom
{Cadi!
Protil
{ Catbs
Prots
{Catha
Protil
Catbl
ProII
ProII
raths
Prots
Greeks
{Catbs
Greekt
{ Protll
Catha
Catbs
{ Catbe
Protl
Great Britain for
L.ftlg,for
Number of PatPIIIIlt to Total
Hearers. lergy. Payment.
6,000,000
6,000,000 618,000
400,000 1,300,000
6,500,000 l 261,000
9,920,000
1,100,000
1,764,824 206,000
50,000 . 44,000
·29,009,000 1,010,000} 1,050,000
1,000,100 20,000
11,000,000 1,100,000 1,100,000
8,000,000 800,000 800,000
4,000,000 120,000} 409,000
1,700,000 89,000
19,391,000 776,000 776,000
15,918,000
- 1,000,000 110,000 887,000
2,000,000 87,000
600,000 80,000} 87,000
1,120,000 117,000
4,000,000 200,000} 62'7,000
6,6841,000 827,000
4,768,000 285,000}
8,000,000 480,000
700,000 66,000}. 160,000
1,800,000 104,000
1,000,000 106,000 106,000
1,700,000 119,000 119,000
8,400,000 288,000 238,000
6,1100,000
2,1100,000 1211,000 1,000,000
84,000,000 600,000
1,000,000 30,000} 1118,000
5,000,000 128,000
9,100,000 1146,000} 676,000
600,0000 30,000
111,000,000 460,000 4110,000
1,1100,000 76,000} 1110,000
1,600,000 711,000
U9,6.ii2,824 l8,712,000
20,804,A24 11,920,000
-
198,7218,000 to pay only 8,8112,000
1 lt.ECAPIT11LATIOK OJ' THE PRECEDING TABLE.
Prote!Mhw, ace. 48.no,814 pay their Cleqy. - - £11,462,1100
c.dlolilllj • . - - . 6,1149,500
q.- Churcl\i. 41,000,000 760,000 .
Total Cbrietiana 219,682,824 ,pay tbeir Clergy, -
Grt. Britaiu, for- 20,804,824 people pays -
Leaviq, for
•
198,'7'28,000 people to pay olll1
88
£18,772,000
9,920,000
Dignzed ,vGoogle
BXT&lf'l' OJ' CBB.IITJ,U{JTY,
If we divide the known countries of the earth, into thirty equal
parts; five of them are Christian, six Mahometan, and nineteen
Pagan.-Bayle'• Dictionary.
Vr. Evans supposing the inhabitants of the world to be eight
hundred millions; gives ·us the annexed scale of probable pro-
portions.
Jews
Pagans -
Christians
.Mahommedans
Subdivision ofChristians.
Greek and Eutem Churches
Roman Catholics
Protestants
·- 2,500,000
4H,OOO,OOO
1'75,000,000
140,000,000
30,000,000
- ,80,000,000
. - 66,000,000
Total number of Christians - .. - 115,000,000
In this, which is wholly Christian arithmetic, no account is
made ofthe probable pr:oportion of either professed .or real U10111r-
LIBVERB, whose number; be· it greater or less, is on all hands
admitted to be an increasing number, and a number to be
deducted, not from the amount ot Jews, Pagans, or M;ohamme-
Jlans ; but exclusively from the amount of Christians; and in the
amount of Christians, chiefly from the most intelligent, reflecting,
and literary characters, th1tt is unquel!ltionably from the very nerves
and core oftheir strength. ·
Let their own statementbe credible-e. g. Dr. Priestley obaervea
In one of his last sermons, that when he visited France in 1'7'74,
all her philosophers and men of letters were absolutely infidels.•
Dr. Evans who died Jan. 24, 182'7, had announced his plan of
a work, wl}ich he lived not to finish, whose professed object, in his
own terms, WQ to shield the Ininds of the rising generation, from
the gro111ing ml of the age, an overweening and clamorous in-
.
The wh0Ie united Scottish Presbytery, in a dolorous Jeremiad,
publicly announce, that all the most intelligent and accomplished
men among them, have imbibed the principles of infidelity.
Their own words arB, " 0 God, pity "'' for our Calt it !ft'Y
pjtftd, ·and tA.ere is nobody elle to pity us, but tlwU,
0 God ! And not now is it .according to the word o( the Lord
in the parable, that one should be astray, and. ninety
and nine safely gathered into the fold, but that the ninety aod nine
should be 'straying and only one abiding in the Yat
• Quoted th111 in Ev111111's Sketches, 16th ed. p. &.
t EVIIIIII'I Sketchee, 16thed. pref. XV.
f Put.oral J.euer &om the BcoUiBb 182'7, p. 18.
/
APPENDIX.
these zealous advocates ofthe Christian cause affect to treat their ·
adversaries, who are thus gaining the march upon them, it seems,
1Jt tbe.rate of a Jmndred to one, as objects of unmingled contempt.
It is not in the power of language to exceed the tone of bitter re-
viling and caustic scorn with which the followers of the ima-
meek and holy Jesus speak of all who call their pretensiontt
m The odium.tkeologicwn, or theological hatred, has
become a proverb, indicating that no hatred is so intense and im-
placable, as that of the professors of a relil§ion of loug-suifering
aad f<qiveuess. . . .
AUTJIORITIE8 ADDUCED IN THE· DIEGESIS.
Dr. whl'tby'• Lut Tbou,rht.s, S. Falllltas, 66, 65, U.,, 252, 871.
Elsley's Antrotatioll8 on ihe Gosjlels, 5, lleanqe, TS,
238, 247, !56. Manifelllo of the Chriltian Evidence
Taeitu, 7, 894. Society, so, 118. '
Viqil, 9, 142, 165, 216, 220, 828, EftiiiiOn'a' Diaac!nance of the Fonr
858. . GoapeLI, 80, lOll, 111, 188.
Moabeim'a Eecleaiaatical History, 10, Bretschneider's Probabilia; 81, 182,
18, 14, 16, 18, IU, 86.._44. 186.
JODel on· the CaDOn of the NewTs Stein'• Aatbentia'Vindicata, 81, 117.
11. Bilhop Bar'• Principles of tbe Cypri-
Oroliua, 18. 898. : .u; 85, Bt4. .......... . .. .· ·
CJIDoou·a DeeliDe 11114·l"'aD of tbe Ro- Menancler, 110, · · ·
man Empire, 14, 15, 81, 82, 84. St. Greaory, 101.·
. U4, 196,.28lt, 288, 828. St. Atbauasias, 101•
.lrliltou'a Pandile Loa&, 16, 16, 1811 Paley's Hone Pauliual, 109, 8'11.
188, 837. Reeve's Preliminary to Vincatiua, 117.
Pope's Homer• Diad, lit. Cave's H'lltoria Li&enuia, 118.
MatrimonialSetviee, 16. Lellin&• 122.
Le .1\'bte, 19, 110. Niemeuer; 122.
Dr. Larduer, 18, 27, 41, 44, 9.8, 108, Stalfeld of Go.ttiugen, 124.
118, 114, 117, 188, 144, 146, 146. Dr. Eichhorn, 124.· '
Unitarian Venioa ot the New Bishop Marah, 128,129.
meut, 19, 116, 216, 878. Philo a,ud Euebium, 69, 70, 71, 72,
Archbishop Neweemh, UL 'tS, 74.
Hutchinson, 28; 1alial Firmicial, 144, 162, 168, 164,
Sllaw'eTra'fei., 28. . 1611, 801.
Sbakapeere, 24, 296. . Philo apud Emutt., 142.
Parkh111'8t'e Hebrew·Lexicoa, 24, 161, Libaniaa, 1411•
.•.158, 160, 161, 1i2, 188,189. Symmaebus, 145. ·
A Friend, 25. . Cbriltiana iu Author's Letters,
1oeephu, Gruk, 27, 19, 96. 145.
ED8ebiu, Greek, 28, 64, 69, 70, '11, St. Ambrose, 146.
72, 78, 74, 76, 76, 77, 81. Addison, 148, 285.
Valerius Muimu, 29. Pope, 148, 215. .
Author's Syntegma, 81, 82, 84, 89, Seneca's Medea, 149.
129, !7!, 161, 1168. Euebiu, 150, 151, 164.
Peeado Plataroh, 82. Ovid, 150, 196, 212, 213, 288.
More's So1J88, 28. Mariaaa, 151. '
1uveual, 28,232, 4.86. Dr. Lardner, 152,206,291,294,281,
Montfaucon, 60. . 298, 805, 806, 812, 817.
Holyot, 60. 1118tin Martyr, 1118, 282, 257, 268,
814,815, 816, 117.
Heuman, 60 Spence's PolymeiM, 1511.
Dig,tizcd by Google
..t.PPUDIX,
Orphic H)11111i. 1116, 111, 11'7. Grotial, 68.
Evaosion, 167. Manrb, G,, 60. .
Judge Blaekltone, 167. Dr. tJJacett, 117.
Bishop Kidder, 168. Mieblelii, 6&, fO, N, II, If, 17, H 1
O.Dord Encyclopedia, 1111. 116, 117, 2M.
!)(. Kenoecol&'a Codicel, 160. SeruiM, N.
Spearma.o, 168. Dra.iu, 60.
Dr.•Godwyn, 163. Scalp, 119,116.
Bryant'a Ancieat Hilt. 167. Sir William JoneainAaiadca-.ebel,
·Archbishop Magee, J:67, 361. 168, 169, 170.
Harris's HeriiMI, 81. 171.
Varro, 38. Dr. John Pye Smida, fll Do...._.
Voeoioa, 33, 180. 171, 3112.
Tertullian, 34, 2&7, 826, 326, 821, Valency, 174.
870, 395,391. .Higills'• Celtic Dlaidl. 1'76,179, 209,
Evaos's Sketcbea, 34. . 224, 243, 4,04.
:&lr. Benld, of Manchester, 16, 171, Colonel F"uaclarence'e 178.
367. Maurice's IndiaD Antiquii:iee, 179.
Archdeacon Paley, 85, 109,275, 861, Quade'• Embl-, 181.
D_t. Chryll\)ltOql, 40, 268. · D.paia, 184.
Dr. Milf, 4i. Apocryphal Goepel"ofNicodemu, 184.
BeaDSOhlo, 40, 68,118,126,126, Reevea'a Apelop.oftbe Fadaem. 184.
303. · Gonzalee, i86. .
Dr. Clarlr.e, 41, 8.77. Life of SL Patrick, 185.
An;l.obius, 421. 222, 384, 385. Aurelioa, 1811.
';..: ..
.__
.._ _ •
.,,.
. .. _ ___ .
Lactaotiu, 42,224, 281, 117; ....... -,C111118 ru
Mona. 42, 411.
Blount's 48. Porney's P811&becm IIJdab:ama, 181,
Epiphallias, 41',"6&, 121;111&. !16.
B'JIIbop B1IMt, 48. . - Homer, 191.
Cicero, 411, 140, 141, 180, 182, ill, N.achylus, 192.
233, 234. Potter'• Trulledoll 111.
Ceseaubon, 44. Bishop W811oa, 196.
Dr. H. More,.U. KGrtliOW. Papau Obno I In, 19'7,
Arcbbisllop W&J!e, 45,116, ltl. 202, 208, 347, 249.
Dr. Semler, 47, l20, 181. llillllciu Feliz, 1",1M.
BeD'a Palltbeon, 48, 142, 148, 144, Meqher, Itt. ·
150, 1611, 188, 184. Reeves's
Deamaileau:'• Lit8 of S.. E,_nd, Madame Daeier, 200.
88. Dr. Edwud Duiel Clulre'• '1'nmk,
T"unea IIJ. 202. ·
Mosheim, 47, 48, 52, 68, 61, -66, 18. Skeltoll•s Appeal, 202.
99, lOS, 116, 1117, -
174. Soeratea 8oLOiuticu, 208, 106, 210,
Fllbrieiaa, 48,114, 288,264, 28t, 800, 2111, 252, 843, 846.
805, 806, 879, aat, 388, 406. Sozomenee, 206, lA.
Dr. Tindal, 42. PnideotiUI, ·20'7.
Works of PaalinDI, 49. Pouer's Aadquitiel, 10'7.
Dr. Middleton'• Letter 6om Diceearohns, 221.
49,50, 67,286,2ft,l7a
Dr. Middleton's Free lnqairy, 161, TheoJoret, 224, Hl.16'7, US.
1114, 110, -21'6, UO. Soame Jenyna, 224.
Bishop 60. 181, 214.
HoM.. Tarretia, Nicene Creed, 181.
Author'a Letter &em Oaldlun, GO, Apoetles' Creed, 184. ·
· 226, Lucan, 217.
Bishop Fell, 54,-288. Archbishop TillotiOII, 2t4, -· Uf,
Mons. Dupin, 56, 388. 227, 228.
Ofi&ea, 117, 92, 101, 121, 196, 889. Gruter'aluecriptio111, 2117.
'Polybaie,67. Boldolliu'a Epipphl. 211.
Dig,tizcd by Google
·
Onomacritu, 289;
llolbeim (tontinue4) 212, 148, 250,
167.
Bell'• Pantheon 211.
Pu:ldnu'lt (tontinue4) 21'7.
Sir W m. JoDeS (tontinuecl) 21'7, 241.
(toralim&cd) 289,. 21'7, 141'7,
186,296.80'7.808,809.
Parkhunlt (contitaueli) 240.
Dr. Lardner (contitaueli) 246, 251,
271, 262,285,291, 804o.
Jobaeon'• Rambler, 241.
Clerical Review, 241.
Waua'• Hylllll8, 242.
lllr. Adame, ofEdmoa&on, 148.
MOD& Baillie, 248
Colafociu, 244.
Coteleriu, 2118, 1168.
8t. Jerom 258, 824, 880.
'
..-,;- Obtrectator (eotllimle4) 25'7,
hliaa apad Cyril}, 2119.
Dorochella, 262, 268, ·164, 261, 166,
26'7, 291.
Abdias's Apoetolic Hiltory, 264, 265,
266, 2'70.
St. Cyrill. 186..
Sir J.- Scarlett, 2'76.
8&. .JJamabM, 290.
8&. Clement, 291.
81alloiei111, 800.
11a'9i111 Den., 800.
)foud"aneoa, 804.
Gibbon 109, 1'7'7, 886,
892.
(tollliHecl) 809, au. 111,
818, 81'7,812, 828.
1. H. &q.ur.aWillbecl, 809.
Bellbam'a Evidentea, 810.
Dion . llalic:arDaRI, 816.
Dr. en: (eontinuecl) 819, 121,
Ea.ebial (continued) 880, 14'7, 849,
161,868,8'78, 881,886.
Saidaa, 882, 881.
Bellamy'• Oripn, 4t, 184, 1,5, 186,
88'7.
. Dspin'a Bibl. onp,., 888.
Ambor'a Leuer. Jiom Oakbam. 841,
160.
Eftlrlaa, 1441.
l8lontel Baboluliclll (e,.,._,ll) 146,
161, NJ.
Dr. Ladner (eotiHnuel) 848, 849,
SiO, 862, 164.
B.ibl. Uaiver. 3110.
Zeaim111, 852, an.
Baroaial, 864.
Pili, 854. .
Saltolll&all, 15'7.
SibylliDe 86'7, 868.
Ev81110D (continuecl) 866, 8'78• .
lcatboiie Miraclee, 165.
Mollliear Le Clerc, 150.
Dr. Lardner (cOIItitcuecl) 864, 86'7
868,8'71,874,886,888,890.
Tolancl'a 8'78.
Maracci'a Kol1UI, 8'74.
Tombeloae ill Deptford Cluudlyud,
8'76. '
&ropeu Mapzille, 1'7'7.
Maerobilll, 8'7'7.
Blomat'a PhiiDIIImlll, 881.
Jo.pbaa, 885, 898•
Author'• 0Jatio111 before the Areope-
p,28'7.
Bryant'a Vindicil8 F1aviau, 188.
Dr. Kippil, 888.
Abbe Ballet, 889.
Lealie'• abort 8lld euy Hedaocl with
Deilta, 890. .
John de Ferraru, 891.
Jebunea d4! Spire, 891.
892.
BuoDilll, 892.
8utoailll, 89'7. 898. ' '
J-.till'a Apol1111, Gretk,.m.
aem.tia Strollllllala, Grttk, IN.
St, Jerom Lalita, 899.
Dr. (ecmHnw4) 198, -&06.
Tbeophillll of Aatioch, 899. .
Pliny,400.
Dr. Semler, ofLeipaic, tOO. .
Ha-,·404.
Giq, 404.
Conode, 404.
Jeremy Xa'rier, 406. ,
Epictetlll'.Eacbiridion, -&06. , .
PJQ!areb, 406.
Emperor Adrian, 40'7.
Emperor AntoniD111, 408.
Lneiwa Apalei111, 409. t
Laciaa, 410. ,;,
.<.f I
Arriaa, 41J. ·'" ·
Dig,tizcd by Google
488 A2PE!fDtJ:,
TEXTS OF BCB.IPI'URE BROUGHT INTO ILLUBTB.ATION IN TilE
COURSE OF THIS DIEGESIS.
Page
Exodae ii. 10. 191
Exodu n. 5. - - 2a
Numbers :uiii. 19. 116
Deuteronomy :uiii. 1. - 880
Joabuax. 12. 190
Judges i. 19. 22
Judges x. 42. 19
Judges xi. 24: - H
1 K'mgs ii. 8. 862
1 Kings xi. 1. - - 161
1 Kioga xxii. 28. - . 46 .
I Kinp :uiii. - - 1115
2 Kinge xxii. 161
2 KiD&e ii. 11. - - -267
2 Chronicles xx. 21. UU
Pllllme. - - 159
PAlm ex. 1. •. ·t61
PAlm uviii. 5. - 208
Paalm ii. 9. - 217
Plalm J.C. - 121
Laiah :r.lv. 1. - 7
. baiah 1iii. 11. - - 198
baiah i:r.. 6. 197
Jliliah xi. 9. - - 278
baiah liii. 14. 879
Ezekiel xiv. 9. - - 146
Ezekiel viii. 4. 182
Ezekiel i:r.. 4. - - 101
Daniel iv. 26. 14
Hagaiii. 7. - • • Ul·
Malachi iii. to. • • • II
"Malachi iv. 2. - - 12
Malachi iii. 4. . - 181
MaUhew uiv. 24. - ,
xri. 19. 'I
uii.d.- 'I
.ui. 211. - ..
ii.1. 17
ii.ll. 80
DiD. 11. - 61
m. 11. - • ffl, 91, N
xrii,;lll. - ,.
XX. 25. - 91
uili.9.;. ·• ·H
rriii. - 9t
:r.iii. 62. - - . 108
:uiv. 18. • · • llt
Dx.1. .. Ul
ii. II. • . , ' ll8
iv.IS. .- • .;184
:ui. 7. - 18&
:r.iii. 11. •• ·140
rriii. 17,18. - 141
m. 11.' - 148
iii. 17 1110
'rio.. - -162
. .... - 167
Maubew uvii. 28.
xxvii. 87. -
:r.viii. 20.
:r.vi. 22.
:r.vii. 14. -
:r.viii. 11.
Ti.12. •
uviii. 8. -
:r.ii. 8. -
"· 84.
L 28. •
Y.16.
..... 18. -
ii. 16. 8tc. -
J.J.Vii. 62, 8te. -
iii. 16.
Mark xiv. 21.
xi. so.
iL 411.
iL47.
iv. 12.
:r.iii. 20.
:r.iii.IS. •
yfi. 11.
:n. 17. -
][V. 26.
J.ii. 81.
J.ri. 16. -
i. 44. -
iv. 12.
i.IO.
Lakeiv. 28.
LIS.
ui. 8. -
iLI1.
:n. 18 -
xx.4.
:uii.19.
i. 1.
J.Zi. 81,
i.2.
J.iil. 1.
iii. I.
ii. 86.
· iv. 9.
n;iii. 11. •
zziL 18. • • ·
iL at. . :..
z:r.ii. 27. -
i. 85. -
sm. 89.-
niv. 81.
ii. 7.
Jolin if. 27. -
i.17.
z. II. -
. ·z.&
..
oigtizedbyGoogle
- 168
186
- 191
- 121
- 221
2-U
269
278
- 278
- n't
87.
-878
188
- 416
'1
- u
..
- 29
- 41S
118
- ll9
181
- 168
268
24J
- 10&
810
-810
- 881
. I
••
7
- '
J4
H
18
88,110
ut
- 114
Ill
- 186
-141
- lflt
168
-,118
181
. -191
Sf
-·-
.. I 'I'll
- J11
J4
- Jl
..
....
1'riii. t.
1'riiL 16.
:liv. 2,
viii. 18. ·
ix. 50. -
vii. 52.
.six. 7.
.m. 2. -
zix. 19.
u. 5
;Iii. 46.
i.,l.
i 9.
ii. 10.
viii. 56.
vi. 55.
ix. s.
viii. 5.
iii. 5.
iii. 8. -
iii. 10. -
ix. ,.
ix. 34. -
i. 14.
i. 82. -
n.27.
n.l7.
xii. 46.
i.9.
vi. 51.
ix.l.
Acta xvii. 22. -
1iv.18. -
1V. 10.
1ii. 21. -
vii. 1.
i. 12. -
iv. -
n. 29.
v. -
n. 85.
iv. 82. -
xviii. 24.
.Jix.11.
i. 111.
n. 18.
i. 25.
xi. 26.
%viii. 18.
iv. 85.
1viii. 20.
:liii. 9.
nviii..81.
i. 18.
1ix. 11.
1ix. H.
xi. st.
.-
-
.
.lPPii\DtX.
Page
67 Acts :Uviii. 81.
67 xii. 19.
-102 viii. 19.
·- 1n m. 15.
185 ]['f. 29.
185 xv. 89.
-18i ii. 19.
- 168 Rom&liB iii. 7•
168. iii. 5, 7.
- 181 xii. 18.
· 181 xi. 18. -
188, 185 xii. 8.
168 1 Corinthi&Ds i. 19. -
-187 i. 27.
210 n. 1. -
-212 u. 22.
- 212
218
- 220
!20
- 220
221
- 221
- 225
387
870
- 870
181
- 183
212
212
19
19
- 26
27
• 8t
66
70
- 78
84
- 98
95
96
- 97
- 184
105
- 160
-165
197
-228
287
-261
261
- 269
272
278
289
xii.
v.
;li.24. -
xv. ss.
:liv. 28. -
1V. 4. •
xv. -
xv. 29.
xii. 28. -
xiv. 29.
xiv. 27. -
xiv. 8.
vi. 8.
i. 2.
xii. -
iv. 1.
1V. 9.
]['f. 20.
xv. 86. -
ii. 8.
' i. 24.
2 CorintbiaDI 1ii. 16.
;li. 28.
iii. 6.
"fiii.4.
xi. 6.
xi. 18.
iii. 6.
iii. 6. -
xii. 2.
xii. 7. -
v. 18.
:L 10. -
xi. 6.
GalatiaDI iv. e.
ii. 2.
i. 17.
iv. 24.
i. 11.
I. 8. -
iv. 24.
Dig•tizcd by GoogI
-
- 292
325
825
- 866
878
- 884
ss
- 45
- 108
141
281
- 38
88
- 48
47
- 62
84
-87
91
99
101
- 104
- 105
140
- 141
140
- 141
141
158
- 175
213
- 269
- 298
298
411
- 197
88
- as
52
89
100
- 107
140
-211
410
411
411
411
411
26
47
62
- 7J
88
89
- 100
Epbelia• iY. 24_. . •
ili.1.
ii. 14. -
iv. 18.
i.U.
iv. 9. •
Phi1ippiaDI iv. 8.
i. 1.
iii. 2.
i. 16.
Col-- ii. 8.
i. 28. -
i.28.
i. 26. -
ii. 9.
i. 28. -
i. 24.
1 n-loniaul ii. 7.
2 n-Ioniaul ii. 11.
ii. 2.
1 Timothy vi. 20.
iii. 16. -
iii.IS. ' -
ii.9.
iii. 8.
Yi. 8. •
i. 8.
iii. 18.
i.lG. •
APPEKDIX.
Pace
- 140
- 195
. 866
-411
• lOG
211
- 68
- U2
166
- 866
87
40
- 89
168,
- 169
247
-411
88
- 46
- . 116
-87
40
., 78
95
- 101
129
- 280
142
- 269
1 Timothy iv. 8. •
to Tit111 i. 7. 90
Hebrewa xiii 7. - • 10'f
xii. ,.. 208.
x. 2Z. - Ill
i. 8. 216
ix. 18. - U8
11.22.- - - 283
Epilde of Jamea Y. 12. - - 157
ii. IG. • 287
lit Epilde of Peter ii. 2. - • 88
iii. 8. - - 96
i. 20. 1G5
i.2. -208
iiL 15. 276
iii. 18. - - 281
iii. 16. 127
2d Epilde of Peter iii. 14. - - 94
ii. 4. - - 216
Epillle. of Jolm-lllt Ep. ii. Ul. • 105
8d EP; 10. - 106
l8t §l. i. 6. - 181
lilt Ep. i. 7. - 282
lit Ep. iv. 8. - 866
.. 215
-JUI
Jadner.6. -
Revelation xii. 5.
xii.l8.
xix. 11. -
Dig,tizcd by Google
2UI
-217
