{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__bulwer___the_student.pdf","mytitle":"The Student","mylang":"de"}
p
THE STUDENT
A SERIES OF PAPERS,
BY THE AUTHOR OF
EUGENE ARAM," " ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH,
" The situation of the most enchanted enthusiast is preferable to that
of a philosopher who, from continual apprehensions of being mistaken, at
length dares neither affirm nor deny any thing."
WlELANU'S ACATHON.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.
1&35.
fl
LONDON I
IBOT80N AND PA I.ME It, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND.
MY ESTEEMED AND EXCELLENT FRIEND,
COLONEL D'AGUILAR,
&c. &c.
I DEDICATE THESE VOLUMES,
E. L. BULWER.
Hertford Street, April 20, 1835.
PREFACE.
I PRESENT these volumes to the reader with
considerable diffidence, and with the full con-
sciousness that they need an apology. A series
of papers which I published some time since in
the New Monthly Magazine, under the title of
" Conversations with an Ambitious Student,"
attracted much favourable attention ;
and I have
been often earnestly requested to collect and
republish them. I postponed, however, doing
so, from time to time, in the impression
that their grave and serious character was not
likely to command an attentive audience with
V1H PREFACE.
the many, at all commensurate with the ex-
aggerated and enthusiastic estimate already con-
ceived of their value by the few. At length,
deciding to pubh'sh certain Essays and Tales,
I found that their general train of thought was
so much in harmony with the Conversations
referred to, that I resolved to incorporate the
latter, (corrected, somewhat enlarged, and un-
der the altered denomination of " The New
Phsedo,") leaving them at the end of the col-
lection to be read or avoided, as the inclination
of the reader may prompt him; a sort of
supplementary walk in the enclosure, at which
he may stop short, or through which he may
pursue his wanderings, in proportion as the
preliminary excursion may have allured or fa-
tigued him.
Of the general nature both of these Con-
versations and the various papers which pre-
cede them, (some of which have also appeared
before,) I should observe that they belong
rather to the poetical than the logical philo-
PREFACE. IX
sophy that, for the most part, they address
the sentiment rather than the intellect choos-
ing for their materials the metaphysics of the
heart and the passions, which are more often
employed in the Fiction than the Essay. If the
title were not a little equivocal and somewhat
presumptuous, I should venture to entitle them
" Minor Prose Poems :"
they utter in prose,
what are the ordinary didactics of poetry. I
allow that they must therefore be taken cum
grano that they assert rather than prove, and
that they address themselves more to those
prepared to agree with the views they embrace,
than to those whom it would be necessary to
convert. This is yet more the case, perhaps,
with the Essays than the Tales, in which latter
the moral is often more homely more addressed
to the experience of the reason, and less con-
structed from the subtleties and refinements of the
feelings. The Tales, in short, partake as much
of the nature of the essay as the Essays them-
selves availing themselves of a dramatic shape,
X PREFACE.
the more earnestly and the less tediously to
inculcate truths.
Although some of the contents of these
volumes have appeared before, I yet trust
that the component parts have been so selected
and arranged as to form a tolerably symme-
trical whole each tending to maintain an
unity of purpose, and to illustrate one ge-
neral vein of ethical sentiment and belief.
Nay, from my desire to effect this the more
completely, I fear that I may occasionally have
incurred the charge of repetition and tautology
although, perhaps, the fault was unavoidable,
and it was necessary to repeat the deduction of
one Essay in the problems contended for in
another.
Perhaps I may hereafter, (when I have com-
pleted an historical work, in which I am now,
and at different intervals, have, for years, been
engaged,) add to these volumes, by some papers
of a more solid and demonstrative character,
divided into two additional series the one upon
PREFACE. XI
certain topics of the Ancient Learning, the other
upon Politics and Commerce. It was with this
intention that I adopted the present title, which,
if
my plan be completed, will be more elaborately
borne out than it is by these volumes, regarded
as a single publication.
I repeat that it is with the most unaffected
diffidence, that after mature deliberation and
long delay, I decide upon committing these
papers to the judgment of the Public. I am
fully aware that they are trifles in themselves,
and that miscellanies of this nature are liable
to be considered even more trifling than they
are still
they convey some thoughts, and some
feelings which I wished not to have experienced
without result ;
and the experience by which an
individual believes he has profited is
rarely
communicated without some benefit, however
humble, to the world.
CONTENTS
OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
PAGE.
Ox THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AUTHORS, AND THE IM-
PRESSION CONVEYED OF THEM BY THEIR WORKS . . 1
MONOS AND DAIMONOS . . . ... 27
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH . . . 49
THE WORLD AS IT is. A TALE .73
KNEBWORTH ...... . . 103
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS . . . . . .127
LAKE LEWAN, AND ITS ASSOCIATIONS .... 149
THE TRUE ORDEAL OF LOVE, A MORAL TALE FOB MAR-
RIED PEOPLE . . ..... 189
ON THE WANT OF SYMPATHY . . . . 213
ARASMANES; OH, THE SEEKER ..... 229
ON ILL HEALTH, AND ITS CONSOLATIONS . . . 319
THE LAW OF ARREST. A TALE ..... 313
ON SATIETY . . , 325
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AUTHORS
AND
THE IMPRESSION CONVEYED OF THEM BY
THEIR WORKS.
VOL. I.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AUTHORS
AND
THE IMPRESSION CONVEYED OF THEM BY
THEIR WORKS.
THIS is one of those subtle and delicate
subjects which Literary philosophers have not
taken the trouble to discuss; it is one which
is linked with two popular errors. The first
error is in the assertion that Authors are
different from the idea of them which their
writings tend to convey ;
and the second error
is in the expectation that nevertheless Au-
thors ought to be exactly what their readers
4 ON THE DIFFERENCE
choose to imagine them. The world does thus,
in regard to Authors, as it does in other matters
expresses its opinions in order to contrast its
expectations. But if an Author disappoint the
herd of spectators, it does not follow that it is his
fault The mass of men are disappointed with
the Elgin Marbles. Why ? Because they are
like life because they are natural. Their dis-
appointment in being brought into contact with
a man of genius is of the same sort. He is too
natural for them, they expected to see his
style in his clothes. Mankind love to be cheat-
ed: thus the men of genius who have not dis-
appointed the world in their externals, and in
what I shall term the management of self)
have always played a part, they have kept alive
the vulgar wonder by tricks suited to the vulgar
understanding, they have measured their con-
duet by device and artifice, and have walked
the paths of life in the garments of the stage.
Thus did Pythagoras and Diogenes, thus did
Napoleon and Louis XIV. (the last of whom was
a man of genius if
only from the delicate beauty
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 5
of his compliments,) thus did Bolingbroke, and
Chatham, (who never spoke except in his best
wig, as being the more imposing,) and above all
Englishmen, thus did Lord Byron. These last
three are men eminently interesting to the vul-
gar, not so much from their "genius as their
charlatanism. It requires a more muscular
mind than ordinary to recover the shock of find-
ing a great man simple. There are some wise
lines in the Corsair, the peculiar merit of which
I never recollect that any of the million critics
of that poem discovered :
" He bounds he flies, until his footsteps reach
The spot where ends the cliff, begins the beach,
There checks his speed ; but pauses, less to breathe
The breezy freshness of the deep beneath,
Than there his wonted statelier step renew,
Nor rush, disturbed by haste, to vulgar view;
For well had Conrad learned to curb the crowd
By arts that veil and oft preserve the proud :
His was the lofty port, the distant mien
That seems to shun the sight, and awes if seen ;
The solemn aspect and the high-born eye,
That checks low mirth, but lacks not courtesy.
O ON THE DIFFERENCE
In these lines shrewd and worldly to the
very marrow are depicted the tricks which
Chiefs have ever been taught to play, but which
Literary Men (Chiefs of a different order) have
not learned to perform. Hence their simplicity,
hence the vulgar disappointment. No man
was disappointed with the late Lord London-
derry, but many were with Walter Scott ;
none
with Charles X. many with Paul Courier; none
with the late Archbishop of * * * *
many
with Wordsworth. Massillon preserved in the
court the impression he had made in the pulpit :
he dressed alike his melodious style and his
handsome person to the best advantage. Mas-
sillon was a good man, but he was a quack ; it
was his vocation, for he was also a good cour-
tier.
This, then, is the difference between the great
men of letters and the great men of courts : the
former generally disappoint the vulgar the
latter do not ; because the one are bred up in the
arts that hide defects and dazzle the herd, and
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 7
the other know nothing but knowledge, and are
skilled in no arts save those of composition. It
follows, then, that the feeling of disappointment
is
usually a sign of a weak mind in him who ex-
periences it, a foolish, apprentice-sort of dis-
position, that judges of everything great by the
criterion of a puppet-show, and expects as
much out of the common way in a celebrated
Author as in the Lord Mayor's coach. I hear,
therefore, the common cry, that a great man
does not answer expectation, with a certain dis-
trustful scorn of the persons who utter it. What
right have they to judge of the matter at all ?
Send them to see Gog and Magog ; they will not
be disappointed with that sight. Is it not, in fact,
a great presumption in the petty herd of idlers
to express an opinion of the man, when they
can scarcely do so of his works, which are but a
part of him? Men who Tcnew not, nor could
have known, a line in the Principia, thought
themselves perfectly at liberty to say that Sir
Isaac Newton was quite a different man from
what might have been expected. There is
8 ON THE DIFFERENCE
scarcely a good critic of books born in an age,
and yet every fool thinks himself justified in cri-
ticising persons.
" There are some people,"
said Necker, in one of his fragments,
" who talk
of our Pascal our Corneille. I am thunder-
struck at their familiarity !"
In real truth, I believe that there is much
less difference between the author and his
works than is currently supposed; it is usually
in the physical appearance of the writer,
his manners his mien his exterior, that
he falls short of the ideal a reasonable man
forms of him rarely in his mind. A man
is, I suspect, but of a second-rate order
whose genius is not immeasurably above his
works, who does not feel within him an inex-
haustible affluence of thoughts feelings in-
ventions which he will never have leisure to
embody in print He will die, and leave only a
thousandth part of his wealth to Posterity, which
is his Heir. I believe this to be true even of
persons, like La Fontaine, who succeed only in
a particular line ; men seemingly of one idea
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 9
shining through an atmosphere of simplicity
the Monomaniacs of Genius. But it is
doubly
true of the mass of great Authors who are mostly
various, accomplished, and all-attempting : such
men never can perfect their own numberless con-
ceptions.
It is, then, in the physical or conventional, not
the mental qualities, that an Author usually
falls short of our ideal : this is a point worthy to
be fixed in the recollection. Any of my readers
who have studied the biography of men of letters
will allow my assertion is borne out by facts ;
and, at this moment, I am quite sure that num-
bers, even of both sexes, have lost a portion of
interest for the genius of Byron on reading in
Lady Blessington's Journal that he wore a
nankin jacket and green spectacles. Of such a
nature are such disappointments. No ! in the
mind of a man there is
always a resemblance to
his works. His heroes may not be like himself,
but they are like certain qualities, which belong
to him. The sentiments he utters are his at the
moment ;
if
you find them predominate in all
B 5
10 ON THE DIFFERENCE
his works, they predominate in his mind : if they
are advanced in one, but contradicted in another,
they still resemble their Author, and betray the
want of depth or of resolution in his mind. His
works alone make not up a man's character, but
they are the index to that living book.
Every one knows how well Voltaire refuted
the assertion of J. Baptiste Rousseau that good-
ness and talent must exist together. The learn-
ed Strabo, holding the same error as Baptiste
Rousseau, says (lib. i.) that there cannot be " a
good poet who is not first a good man." This
is a paradox, and yet it is not far from the
truth : a good poet may not be a good man, but
he must have certain good dispositions. Above
all, that disposition which sympathises with
noble sentiments with lofty actions with the
Beauty of the Mind as of the Earth. This
may not suffice to make him a good man its in-
fluence may be counteracted a hundred ways in
life, but it is not counteracted in his composi-
tions. There the better portion of his Intellect
awakes there he gives vent to enthusiasm, and
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 11
enthusiasm to generous and warm emotions.
Sterne may have been harsh to his wife, but his
heart was tender at the moment he wrote of
Maria. Harshness of conduct is not a contra-
diction of extreme susceptibility to sentiment
in writing. The latter may be perfectly sincere,
as the former may be perfectly indefensible ;
in
fact, the one may be a consequence, not a con-
tradiction, of the other. The craving after the
Ideal, which belongs to Sentiment, makes its pos-
sessor discontented with the mortals around
him, and the very overfineness of nerve that
quickens nis feelings sharpens also his irritabi-
lity.
For my own part, so far from being sur-
prised to hear that Sterne was a peevish and
angry man, I should have presumed it at once
from the overwrought fibre of his graver com-
positions. This contrast between softness in
emotion, and callousness in conduct, is not pecu-
liar to poets. Nero was womanishly affected by
the harp; and we are told by Plutarch, that
Alexander Pheraeus, who was one of the sternest
of tyrants, shed a torrent of tears upon the act-
12 ON THE DIFFERENCE
ing of a play. So that he who had furnished the
most matter for tragedies was most affected by
the pathos of a tragedy !
But who shall say that the feelings which pro-
duced such emotions even in such men were not
laudable and good ? Who that has stood in the
dark caverns of the Human Heart, shall dare to
scoff at the contrast of act and sentiment, instead
of lamenting it ? Such scoffers are the Shallows
of Wit their very cleverness proves their su-
perficiality. There are various dark feelings
within us which do not destroy, but which, when
roused, overwhelm for the time the feelings
which are good to which last, occupied in
literature, or in purely mental emotions, we are
sensible alone, and unalloyed. Of our evil feel-
ings, there is one in especial which is the usual
characteristic of morbid literary men, though,
hitherto, it has escaped notice as such, and
which is the cause of many of the worst
faults to be found both in the Author and
the Tyrant: this feeling is Suspicion: and I
think I am justified in calling it the charac-
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 13
teristic of morbid literary men. Their quick
susceptibilities make them over-sensible of in-
jury, they exaggerate the enmities they have
awakened the slanders they have incurred.
They are ever fearful of a trap: nor this in
literature alone. Knowing that they are not
adepts in the world's common business, they are
perpetually afraid of being taken in ; and, feel-
ing their various peculiarities, they are often
equally afraid of being ridiculed. Thus Sus-
picion, in all ways and all shapes, besets them ;
this makes them now afraid to be generous, and
now to be kind; and acting upon a soil that
easily receives, but rarely loses an impression
that melancholy vice soon obdurates and en-
crusts the whole conduct of the acting man.
But in literary composition it
sleeps. The
thinking man then hath no enemy at his desk,
no hungry trader at his elbow no grinning
spy on his uncouth gestures. His soul is
young
again he is what he embodies, and the
feelings, checked in the real world, obtain
their vent in the imaginary. It was the
14 ON THE DIFFERENCE
Good Natural, to borrow a phrase from the
French, that spoke in the erring Rousseau,
when he dwelt on the loveliness of Virtue. It
was the Good Natural that stirred in the mind
of Alexander Pheraeus when he wept at the
mimic sorrows subjected to his gaze. When
the time for action and for the real world ar-
rived to either, it roused other passions, and
Suspicion made the Author no less a wretch
than it made the Tyrant
Thus the tenderest sentiments may be accom-
panied with cruel actions, and yet the solution
of the enigma be easy to the inquirer ;
and thus,
though the life of an Author does not corre-
spond with his works, his nature may.
But this view is the most partial of all, and
I have, therefore, considered it the first. How
few instances there are, after all, of even that
seeming discrepitude, which I have just touched
upon, between the Author's conduct and his
books ;
in most they chime together and
all the notes from the mighty instrument
are in concord ! Look at the life of Schiller,
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 15
how completely his works assimilate with his
restless, questioning, and daring genius: the
animation of Fiesco the solemnity of Wallen-
stein are alike emblematic of his character.
His sentiments are the echo to his life. Walter
Scott and Cobbett what a contrast ! Could
Cobbett's life have been that of Scott or Scott's
character that of Cobbett ? You may read the
character of the Authors in their several Works,
as if the works were meant to be autobiogra-
phies. Warburton ! what an illustration of the
proud and bitter Bishop, in his proud and bitter
Books ! Sir Philip Sidney* is the Arcadia put
into action ;
the wise and benevolent Fenelon ;
the sententious and fiery Corneille ;
the
dreaming and scarce intelligible Shelley; the
pompous vigour of Johnson, with his prejudice
and his sense his jealousies and his charity
his habitual magniloquence in nothings and his
gloomy independence of mind, yet low-born ve-
* "
Poetry put into action" is the fine saying of
Campbell in respect to Sidney's life ; true, but the
poetry of the Arcadia.
16 ON THE DIFFERENCE
neration for rank ; Johnson is no less visible
in the Rambler, the Rasselas, the Lives of the
Poets, the Taxation no Tyranny, than in his
large chair at Mrs. Thrale's his lonely chamber
in the dark court out of Fleet-street or his
leonine unbendings with the canicular soul of
Boswell. How in the playfulness and the depth
the eccentricity and the solid sense the ubi-
quitous sympathy with the larger mass of men
the absence of almost all sympathy with their
smaller knots and closer ties, how in those
features, which characterise the pages of Ben-
tham, you behold the wise, singular, benevolent,
and passionless old man ! I might go on enu-
merating these instances for ever :
Dante, Pe-
trarch, Voltaire, rush on my memory as I write,
but to name them is
enough to remind the
reader that if he would learn their characters he
has only to read their works. I have been much
pleased in tracing the life of Paul Louis Courier,
the most brilliant political writer France ever
possessed to see how singularly it is hi keep-
ing with the character of his writings. Talking
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 17
the other day at Paris with some of his friends,
they expressed themselves astonished at my ac-
curate notions of his character " You must
have known him," they said. " No ; but I
know his works." When he was in the army in
Italy, he did not distinguish himself by bravery
in his profession of Soldier, but by bravery in
his pursuits as an Antiquarian !
perfectly care-
less of danger, he pursued his own independent
line of occupation sympathizing with none of
the objects of others untouched by the vulgar
ambition wandering alone over the remains of
old falling a hundred times into the hands of
the brigands, and a hundred times extricating
himself by his address, and continuing the same
pursuits with the same nonchalance. In all this
you see the identical character which, in his
writings, views with a gay contempt the ambi-
tion and schemes of others which sneers alike
at the Bourbon and the Buonaparte which,
careless of subordination, rather than braving
persecution, pursues with a gallant indifference
its own singular and independent career.
18 ON THE DIFFERENCE
A critic, commenting on writings that have
acquired some popularity, observed, that they
contained two views of life contradictory of each
other, the one inclining to the Ideal and Lofty
the other to the Worldly and Cynical. The
critic remarked, that " this might arise from the
Author having two separate characters, a cir-
cumstance less uncommon than the world sup-
posed." There is great depth in the critic's
observation. An Author usually has two cha-
racters, the one belonging to his Imagination
the other to his Experience. From the one
come all his higher embodyings :
by the help of
the one he elevates he refines ; from the other
come his beings of " the earth, earthy," and his
aphorisms of worldly caution. From the one
broke bright yet scarce distinct the Rebecca
of Ivanhoe, from the other rose, shrewd and
selfish, the Andrew Fairservice of Rob Roy.
The original of the first need never to have
existed her elements belonged to the Ideal;
but the latter was purely the creature of Expe-
rience, and either copied from one, or moulded
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 19
unconsciously from several, of the actual deni-
zens of the Living world. In Shakspeare the
same doubleness of character is remarkably vi-
sible. The loftiest Ideal is perpetually linked
with the most exact copy of the commoners of
life.
Shakspeare had never seen Miranda
but he had drunk his glass with honest Ste-
phano. Each character embodies a separate
view of life the one (to return to my propo-
sition) the offspring of Imagination, the other
of Experience. This complexity of character
which has often puzzled the inquirer may, I
think, thus be easily explained and the seem-
ing contradiction of the tendency of the work
traced home to the conflicting principles in the
breast of the Writer. The more an imaginative
man sees of the world, the more likely to be
prominent is the distinction I have noted.
I cannot leave this subject though the fol-
lowing remark is an episode from the inquiry
indicated by my title without observing that
the characters drawn by Experience usually
the worldly, the plain, and the humorous stand
20 ON THE DIFFERENCE
necessarily out from the canvass in broader and
more startling colours, than those created by
the Imagination. Hence superficial critics have
often considered the humorous and coarse cha-
racters of an author as his best, forgetful that
the very indistinctness of his ideal characters is
not only inseparable from the nature of purely
imaginary creations, but a proof of the exaltation
and intenseness of the imaginative power. The
most shadowy and mist-like of all Scott's heroes
is the Master of Ravenswood, and yet it is per-
haps the highest of his characters in execution as
well as conception. Those strong colours and
massive outlines, which strike the vulgar gaze as
belonging to the best pictures, belong rather to
the lower Schools of Art. Let us take a work
the greatest the world possesses in those Schools,
and in which the flesh-and-blood vitality of the
characters is
especially marked I mean Tom
Jones and compare it with Hamlet The chief
characters in Tom Jones are all plain, visible,
eating, drinking, and walking beings ;
those in
Hamlet are shadowy, solemn, and mysterious
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 21
we do not associate them with the ordinary wants
and avocations of Earth they are
"
Lifeless, but lifelike, and awful to sight,
Like the figures in arras that gloomily glare,
Stirred by the breath of the midnight air."
But who shall say that the characters in Tom
Jones are better drawn than those in Hamlet
or that there is greater skill necessary in the
highest walk of the Actual School, than in
that of the Imaginative ? Yet there are some
persons who, secretly in their hearts, want
Hamlet to be as large in the calves as Tom
Jones ! These are they who blame Lara for
being indistinct that very indistinctness shed-
ding over the poem the sole interest it was
capable of receiving. With such critics, Mari-
tornes is a more masterly creation than Undine.
We may observe in Humorous Authors that
the faults they chiefly ridicule have often a like-
ness in themselves. Cervantes had much of the
knight-errant in him; Sir George Etherege
was unconsciously the Fopling Flutter of his
22 ON THE DIFFERENCE
own satire ;
Goldsmith was the same hero to
chambermaids, and coward to ladies, that he
has immortalized in his charming comedy ;
and
the antiquarian frivolities of Jonathan Oldbuck
had their resemblance in Jonathan Oldbuck's
creator. The pleasure or the pain we derive
from our own foibles makes enough of our na-
ture to come off somewhere or other in the im-
pression we stamp of ourselves on Books.
There is as I think it has been somewhere
remarked by a French writer there is that in
our character which never can be seen except
in our writings. Yes, all that we have formed
from the Ideal all our noble aspirings our
haunting visions our dreams of virtue, all the
celata Venus which dwells in the lonely Ida of
the heart who could pour forth these delicate
mysteries to gross and palpable hearers, who
could utterly unveil to an actual and indifferent
spectator the cherished and revered images of
years dim regrets and vague hopes?
In fact, if
you told your best friend half what
you put upon paper, he would yawn in your
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 23
face, or he would think you a fool. Would it
have been possible for Rousseau to have gravely
communicated to a living being the tearful ego-
tisms of his Reveries ? could Shakspeare have
uttered the wild confessions of his sonnets to
his friends at the " Mermaid ?" should we have
any notion of the youthful character of Milton
its lustrous but crystallized purity if the
Comus had been unwritten ? Authors are the
only men we ever really do know, the rest of
mankind die with only the surface of their cha-
racter understood. True, as I have before said,
even in an Author, if of large and fertile mind,
much of his most sacred self is never to be re-
vealed, but still we know what species of ore
the mine would have produced, though we may
not have exhausted its treasure.
Thus, then, to sum up what I have said, so
far from there being truth in the vulgar notion,
that the character of Authors is belied in their
works their works are, to a diligent inquirer,
their clearest and fullest illustration an appen-
dix to their biography far more valuable and ex-
24 ON THE DIFFERENCE
planatory than the text itself. From this fact
we may judge of the beauty and grandeur of the
materials of the human mind, although those
materials are so often perverted, and their har-
mony so fearfully marred. It also appears that
despite the real likeness between the book
and the man the vulgar will not fail to be
disappointed, because they look to externals;
and the man composed not the book with his
face, nor his dress, nor his manners but with
his mind. Hence, then, to proclaim yourself dis-
appointed with the Author is
usually to condemn
your own accuracy of judgment, and your own
secret craving after pantomimic effect More-
over, it would appear, on looking over these
remarks, that there are often two characters to
an Author, the one essentially drawn from
the Poetry of life the other from its Experi-
ence ; and that hence are to be explained many
seeming contradictions and inconsistencies in
his works. Lastly, that so far from the book
belying the author, unless he had written that
book, you (no, even if
you are his nearest
BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C. 25
relation, his dearest connexion, his wife, his
mother) would never have known the character
of his mind.
" Hse pulcherrimee effigies et mansurse."
All biography proves this remarkable fact !
Who so astonished as a man's relations when
he has exhibited his genius, which is the soul
and core of his character? Had Alfieri or
Rousseau died at thirty, what would all who
had personally known either have told us of them?
Would they have given us any, the faintest, no-
tion of their characters ? None. A man's mind
is betrayed by his talents as much as his virtues.
A councillor of a provincial parliament had a
brother a mathematician " How unworthy in
my brother," cried the councillor,
" the bro-
ther of a councillor of the parliament in Bre-
tagne, to sink into a mathematician !" That
mathematician . was Descartes ! What should
we know of the character of Descartes, sup-
posing him to have renounced his science, and
VOL. i. c
26 THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AUTHORS, &C.
his brother (who might fairly be supposed to
know his life and character better than any one
else) to have written his biography ? A reflec-
tion that may teach us how biography in general
ought to be estimated.
MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
c 2
MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
A LEGEND.
I AM English by birth, but my early years were
passed in a foreign and more northern land. I
had neither brothers nor sisters; my mother
died when I was in the cradle ;
and I found my
sole companion, tutor, and playmate in my fa-
ther. He was a younger brother of a noble and
ancient house : what induced him to forsake his
country and his friends, to abjure all society,
and to live on a rock, is a story in itself, which
has nothing to do with mine.
As the Lord liveth, I believe the tale that I
30 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
shall tell you will have sufficient claim on your
attention, without calling in the history of an-
other to preface its most exquisite details, or to
give interest to its most amusing events. I
said my father lived on a rock the whole coun-
try round seemed nothing but rock ! wastes,
bleak, blank, dreary; trees stunted, herbage
blighted; caverns, through which some black and
wild stream (that never knew star or sunlight,
but through rare and hideous chasms of the
huge stones above it) went dashing and howling
on its blessed course ; vast cliffs, covered with
eternal snows, where the birds of prey lived,
and sent, in screams and discordance, a grateful
and meet music to the heavens, which seemed
too cold and barren to wear even clouds upon
their wan, grey, comfortless expanse : these
made the characters of that country where the
spring of my life sickened itself away. The
climate which, in the milder parts of * * *
*,
relieves the nine months of winter with three
months of an abrupt and autumnless summer,
never seemed to vary in the gentle and sweet
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 31
region in which my home was placed. Perhaps,
for a brief interval, the snow in the valleys
melted, and the streams swelled, and a blue,
ghastly, unnatural kind of vegetation, seemed,
here and there, to scatter a grim smile over mi-
nute particles of the universal rock; but to
these witnesses of the changing season were the
summers of my boyhood confined. My father
was addicted to the sciences the physical
sciences and possessed but a moderate share
of learning in any thing else ;
he taught me all
he knew ;
and the rest of my education, Nature,
in a savage and stern guise, .instilled in my heart
by silent but deep lessons. She taught my feet
to bound, and my arm to smite ;
she breathed
life into my passions, and shed darkness over
my temper ;
she taught me to cling to her, even
in her most rugged and unalluring form, and to
shrink from all else from the companionship of
man, and the soft smiles of woman, and the shrill
voice of childhood ;
and the ties, and hopes, and
socialities, and objects of human existence, as
from a torture and a curse. Even in that sullen
32 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
rock, and beneath that ungenial sky, I had
luxuries unknown to the palled tastes of cities,
or to those who woo delight in an air of odours
and in a land of roses ! What were those lux-
uries ? They had a myriad varieties and shades
of enjoyment they had but a common name.
What were those luxuries ? Solitude !
My father died when I was eighteen ;
I was
transferred to my uncle's protection, and I re-
paired to London. I arrived there, gaunt and
stern, a giant in limbs and strength, and to the
tastes of those about me, a savage in bearing
and in mood. They would have laughed, but I
awed them; they would have altered me, but I
changed them , I threw a damp over their en-
joyment and a cloud over their meetings.
Though I said little, though I sat with them
estranged and silent, and passive, they seemed
to wither beneath my presence. Nobody could
live with me and be happy, or at ease ! I felt
it, and I hated them that they could love not me.
Three years passed I was of age I demanded
my fortune and scorning social life, and pining
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 33
once more for loneliness, I resolved to journey
to those unpeopled and far lands, which if
any
have pierced, none have returned to describe.
So I took my leave of them all, cousin and aunt
and when I came to my old uncle, who had
liked me less than any, I grasped his hand with
so friendly a gripe, that, well I ween, the dainty
and nice member was thenceforth but little in-
clined to its ordinary functions.
I commenced my pilgrimage I pierced the
burning sands I traversed the vast deserts I
came into the enormous woods of Africa, where
human step never trod, nor human voice ever
startled the thrilling and intense Solemnity that
broods over the great solitudes, as it brooded
over chaos before the world was ! There the
primeval nature springs and perishes; undis-
turbed and unvaried by the convulsions of the
surrounding world ; the seed becomes the tree,
lives through its uncounted ages, falls and
moulders, and rots and vanishes; there, the
slow Time moves on, unwitnessed in its
mighty
and mute changes, save by the wandering lion,
c 5
34 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
or that huge serpent a hundred times more
vast than the puny boa which travellers have
boasted to behold. There, too, as beneath the
heavy and dense shade I couched in the scorch-
ing noon, I heard the trampling as of an army,
and the crush and fall of the strong trees, and
saw through the matted boughs the Behemoth
pass on its terrible way, with its
eyes burning as
a sun, and its white teeth arched and glistening
in the rabid jaw, as pillars of spar glitter in a
cavern ;
the monster, to whom those wastes only
are a home, and who never, since the waters
rolled from the Daedal earth, has been given to
human gaze and wonder but my own ! Seasons
glided on, but I counted them not ; they were
not doled to me by the tokens of man, nor made
sick to me by the changes of his base life, and
the evidence of his sordid labour. Seasons glided
on, and my youth ripened into manhood, and
manhood grew grey with the first frost of age ;
and then a vague and restless spirit fell upon
me, and I said in my foolish heart,
" I will look
upon the countenances of my race once more !"
MOXOS AND DAIMONOS. 35
I retraced my steps I recrossed the wastes I
re-entered the -cities I took again the garb of
man; for I had been hitherto naked in the
wilderness, and hair had grown over me as a
garment I repaired to a sea-port, and took
ship for England.
In the vessel there was one man, and only
one, who neither avoided my companionship nor
recoiled at my frown. He was an idle and
curious being, full of the frivolities, and egotisms,
and importance of those to whom towns are
homes, and talk has become a mental aliment.
He was one pervading, irritating, offensive tissue
of little and low thoughts. The only meanness
he had not was fear. It was impossible to awe,
to silence, or to shun him. He sought me for
ever ; he was as a blister to me, which no force
could tear away; my soul grew faint when my
eyes met him. He was to my sight as those
creatures which from their very loathsomeness
are fearful as well as despicable to us. I longed
and yearned to strangle him when he addressed
me ! Often I would have laid my hand on him,
36 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
and hurled him into the sea to the sharks,
which, lynx-eyed and eager-jawed, swam night
and day around our ship ;
but the gaze of many
was on us, and I curbed myself, and turned
away, and shut my eyes in very sickness ;
and
when I opened them again, lo ! he was by my
side, and his sharp quick voice grated on my
loathing ear ! One night I was roused from
my sleep by the screams and oaths of men, and
I hastened on deck : we had struck upon a rock.
It was a ghastly, but, oh Christ ! how glorious,
a sight !
Moonlight still and calm the sea
sleeping in sapphires ;
and in the midst of the
silent and soft repose of all things, three hun-
dred and fifty souls were to perish from the
world ! I sat apart, and looked on, and aided
not. A voice crept like an adder's hiss upon
my ear; I turned, and saw my tormentor; the
moonlight fell on his face, and it grinned with
the maudlin grin of intoxication, and his pale
blue eye glistened, and he said,
" We will not
part even here !". My blood ran coldly through
my veins, and I would have thrown him into
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 37
the sea, which now came fast and fast upon us;
but the moonlight was on him, and I did not
dare to kill him. But I would not stay to
perish with the herd, and I threw myself alone
from the vessel and swam towards a rock. I
saw a shark dart after me, but I shunned him,
and the moment after he had plenty to sate his
maw. I heard a crash, and a mingled and wild
burst of anguish, the anguish of three hundred
and fifty hearts that a minute afterwards were
stilled, and I said in my own heart, with a deep
joy,
" His voice is with the rest, and we have
parted !" I gained the shore, and lay down to
sleep.
The next morning my eyes opened upon a
land more beautiful than a Grecian's dreams.
The sun had just risen, and laughed over
streams of silver, and trees bending with golden
and purple fruits, and the diamond dew sparkled
from a sod covered with flowers, whose faintest
breath was a delight. Ten thousand birds, with
all the hues of a northern rainbow blended in
their glorious and glowing wings, rose from turf
3S MONOS AND DAIMONO5.
and tree, and loaded the air with melody and
gladness ;
the sea, without a vestige of the past
destruction upon its glassy brow, murmured at
my feet; the heavens, without a cloud, and
bathed in a liquid and radiant light, sent their
breezes as a blessing to my cheek. I rose with
a refreshed and light heart; I traversed the
new home I had found ;
I climbed upon a high
mountain, and saw that I was in a small island
it had no trace of man and my heart swelled
as I gazed around and cried aloud in my ex-
ultation,
" I shall be alone again !" I descended
the hill : I had not yet reached its foot, when I
saw the figure of a man approaching towards
me. I looked at him, and my heart misgave me.
He drew nearer, and I saw that my despicable
persecutor had escaped the waters, and now
stood before me. He came up with his hideous
grin, and his twinkling eye ;
and he flung his
arms round me, I would sooner have felt the
slimy folds of the serpent and said, with his
grating and harsh voice,
" Ha ! ha !
my friend,
ve shall be together still !" I looked at him
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 39
with a grim brow, but I said not a word. There
was a great cave by the shore, and I walked
down and entered it, and the man followed me.
" We shall live so happily here," said he ;
" we
will never separate !" And my lip trembled,
and my hand clenched of its own accord. It
was now noon, and hunger came upon me;
I went forth and killed a deer, and I brought it
home and broiled part of it on a fire of fragrant
wood; and the man ate, and crunched, and
laughed, and I wished that the bones had choked
him ;
and he said, when we had done,
" We
shall have rare cheer here !
"
But I still held
my peace. At last he stretched himself in a
corner of the cave and slept. I looked at him,
and saw that the slumber was heavy, and I
went out and rolled a huge stone to the mouth
of the cavern, and took my way to the opposite
part of the island; it was my turn to laugh
then ! I found out another cavern ; and I made
a bed of moss and of leaves, and I wrought a
table of wood, and I looked out from the mouth
of the cavern and saw the wide seas before me,
and I said,
" Now I shall be alone !"
40 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
When the next day came, I again went out
and caught a kid, and brought it in, and pre-
pared it as before; but I was not hungered,
and I could not eat, so I roamed forth and
wandered over the island: the sun had nearly
set when I returned. I entered the cavern, and
sitting on my bed and by my table was that
man whom I thought I had left buried alive in
the other cave. He laughed when he saw me,
and laid down the bone he was gnawing.
"
Ha, ha !
"
said he,
"
you would have served
me a rare trick, but there was a hole in the
cave which you did not see, and I got out to
seek you. It was not a difficult matter, for the
island is so small ;
and now we have met, and
we will part no more !
"
I said to the man, "Rise, and follow me!"
So he rose, and the food he quitted was loath-
some in my eyes, for he had touched it " Shall
this thing reap and I sow?" thought I, and my
heart felt to me like iron.
I ascended a tall cliff:
" Look round," said I;
"
you see that stream which divides the island ;
you shall dwell on one side, and I on the other
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 41
but the same spot shall not hold us, nor the
same feast supply !
"
"That may never be!" quoth the man;
" for I cannot catch the deer, nor spring upon
the mountain kid; and if
you feed me not, I
shall starve !"
" Are there not fruits," said I,
" and birds
that you may snare, and fishes which the sea
throws up?"
" But I like them not," quoth the man, and
laughed,
" so well as the flesh of kids and
deer !"
"
Look, then," said I,
<<
look :
by that grey
stone, upon the opposite side of the stream, I
will lay a deer or a kid daily, so that you may
have the food you covet ; but if ever you cross
the stream and come into my kingdom, so sure
as the sea murmurs, and the bird flies, I will
slay you !
"
I descended the cliff, and led the man to the
side of the stream. " I cannot swim," said he ;
so I took him on my shoulders and crossed the
brook, and I found him out a cave, and I made
42 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
him a bed and a table like my own, and left
him. When I was on my own side of the
stream again, I bounded with joy, and lifted up
my voice;
" I shall be alone now !" said I.
So two days passed, and I was alone. On
the third I went after my prey ;
the noon was
hot, and I was wearied when I returned. I en-
tered my cavern, and behold the man lay stretched
upon my bed. "
Ha, ha !" said he, "here I am;
I was so lonely at home that I have come to live
with you again !"
I frowned on the man with a dark brow, and
I said,
" So sure as the sea murmurs, and the
bird flies, I will slay you !" I seized him in
my arms : I plucked him from my bed ;
I took
him out into the open air, and we stood together
on the smooth sand, and by the great sea. A
fear came suddenly upon me ; I was struck with
the awe of the still
Spirit which reigns over Soli-
tude. Had a thousand been round us, I would
have slain him before them all. I feared now
because we were alone in the desert, with
Silence and GOD ! I relaxed my hold. "
Swear,
"
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 43
I said,
" never to molest me again ;
swear to
preserve unpassed the boundary of our several
homes, and I will not kill you !"
" I cannot
swear," answered the man;
" I would sooner
die than forswear the blessed human face even
though that face be my enemy's !"
At these words my rage returned ;
I dashed
the man to the ground, and I put my foot upon
his breast, and my hand upon his neck, and he
struggled for a moment and was dead ! I was
startled ;
and as I looked upon his face I thought
it seemed to revive ;
I thought the cold blue
eye fixed upon me, and the vile grin returned
to the livid mouth, and the hands which in the
death-pang had grasped the sand, stretched
themselves out to me. So I stamped on the
breast again, and I dug a hole in the shore, and
I buried the body.
" And now," said I,
" I am
alone at last !" And then the TRUE sense of
loneliness, the vague, comfortless, objectless
sense of desolation passed into me. And I
shook shook in every limb of my giant frame,
as if I had been a child that trembles in the
44 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
dark ; and my hair rose, and my blood crept, and
I would not have stayed in that spot a moment
more if I had been made young again for it. I
turned away and fled fled round the whole
island ;
and gnashed my teeth when I came to
the sea, and longed to be cast into some illimit-
able desert, that I might flee on for ever. At
sunset I returned to my cave I sat myself
down on one corner of the bed, and covered my
face with my hands I thought I heard a noise ;
I raised my eyes, and, as I live, I saw on the
other end of the bed the man whom I had slain
and buried. There he sat, six feet from me,
and nodded to me, and looked at me with his
wan eyes, and laughed. I rushed from the cave
I entered a wood I threw myself down
there opposite to me, six feet from my face, was
the face of that man again ! And my courage
rose, and I spoke, but he answered not. I at-
tempted to seize him, he glided from my grasp,
and was still opposite, six feet from me as be-
fore. I flung myself on the ground, and pressed
my face to the sod, and would not look up till
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 45
the night came on and darkness was over the
earth. I then rose and returned to the cave ;
I
lay down on my bed, and the man lay down by
me ;
and I frowned and tried to seize him as be-
fore, but I could not, and I closed my eyes, and
the man lay by me. Day followed day and it
was the same. At board, at bed, at home and
abroad, in my uprising and my down-sitting, by
day and at night, there, by my bed-side, six
feet from me, and no more, was that ghastly
and dead thing. And I said, as I looked upon
the beautiful land and the still heavens, and
then turned to that fearful comrade,
" I shall
never be alone again !" And the man laughed.
At last a ship came, and I hailed it it took
me up, and I thought, as I put my foot upon
the deck,
" I shall escape from my tormentor I"
As I thought so, I saw him climb the deck too,
and I strove to push him down into the sea, but
in vain ; he was by my side, and he fed and
slept with me as before ! I came home to my
native land ! I forced myself into crowds I
went to the feast, and I heard music and I
46 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
made thirty men sit with me, and watch by
day and by night. So I had thirty-owe com-
panions, and one was more social than all the
rest.
At last I said to myself,
" This is a delusion,
and a cheat of the external senses, and the thing
is not, save in my mind. I will consult those
skilled in such disorders, and I will be alone
again /"
I summoned one celebrated in purging from
the mind's eye its films and deceits I bound
him by an oath to secrecy and I told him my
tale. He was a bold man and a learned, and
promised me relief and release.
" Where is the figure now ?" said he, smiling ;
" I see it not"
And I answered,
" It is six feet from us !"
" I see it not," said he again ;
" and if it
were real, my senses would not receive the image
less palpably than yours." And he spoke to me
as schoolmen speak. I did not argue nor
reply, but I ordered the servants to prepare a
room, and to cover the floor with a thick layer of
MONOS AND DAIMONOS. 47
sand. When it was done, I bade the Leech fol-
low me into the room, and I barred the door,
" Where is the figure now?" repeated he; and
I said,
" Six feet from us as before !" And
the Leech smiled. " Look on the floor !" said
I, and I pointed to the spot ;
" what see you ?"
And the Leech shuddered, and clung to me that
he might not fall.
" The sand there," said he,
" was smooth when we entered, and now I see
on that spot the print of human feet !"
And I laughed, and dragged my living com-
panion on ;
"
See," said I,
" where we move
what follows us !"
The Leech gasped for breath ;
" The print,"
said he,
" of those human feet !"
" Can you not minister to me then ?" cried I,
in a sudden and fierce agony,
" and must I
never be alone again ?'
And I saw the feet of the dead thing trace
these words upon the sand :
" SOLITUDE is ONLY FOR THE GUILTLESS
EVIL THOUGHTS ARE COMPANIONS FOR A TIME
48 MONOS AND DAIMONOS.
EVIL DEEDS ARE COMPANIONS THROUGH ETERNITY
THY HATRED MADE ME BREAK UPON THY
LONELINESS THY CRIME DESTROYS LONELINESS
FOR EVER."
ON THE
DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
VOL. I
51
DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
IN the seven stages of man's life, there are three
epochs more distinctly marked than the rest, viz.
the departure of Boyhood the departure of
Youth the commencement of Old Age. I
consider the several dates of these epochs, in
ordinary constitutions, commence at fifteen,
thirty, and fifty years of age. It is of the second
that I am about to treat When I call it the
epoch for the departure of youth, I do not of
course intend to signify, that this, the prime and
zenith of our years, is as yet susceptible of decay.
Our frames are as young as they were five years
before, it is the mind that has become ma-
D 2
52 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
tured. By youth I mean the growing and pro-
gressive season its departure is only visible in-
asmuch as we have become, as it were, fixed and
stationary. The qualities that peculiarly belong
to youth its
"
quick-thronging fancies" its
exuberance of energy and feeling, cease to be
our distinctions at thirty. We are young but
not youthfuL It is not at thirty that we know
the wild phantasies of Romeo scarcely at thirty
that we could halt irresolute in the visionary
weaknesses of Hamlet. The passions of youth
may be no less felt than heretofore ; it is
youth's
sentiment we have lost. The muscles of the
mind are firmer, but it is the nerve that is less
susceptible, and vibrates no more to the lightest
touch of pleasure or of pain. Yes, it is the
prime of our manhood which is the departure of
our youth I
It seems to me, that to reflective and lofty
minds accustomed to survey, and fitted to
comprehend, the great aims of life, this is a
period peculiarly solemn and important. It is a
spot on which we ought to rest for a while from
our journey. It is the summit of the hill from
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 53
which we look down on two even divisions of
our journey. We have left behind us a profusion
of bright things never again shall we traverse
such fairy fields with such eager hopes ;
never
again shall we find the same
"
Glory in the grass or splendour in the flower."
The dews upon the herbage are dried up. The
morning is no more.
" We made a posy while the time ran by,
But Time did beckon to the flowers, and they
By noon most cunningly did steal away
And wither in the hand.
Farewell, dear flowers, sweetly your time ye spent !'
*
We ought then to pause for awhile to review
the past to gather around us the memories and
the warnings of experience to feel that the
lighter part of our destinies is completed that
the graver has begun that our follies and our
errors have become to us the monitors of wisdom :
for since these are the tributes which Fate ex-
acts from Mortality, they are not to be idly re-
*
George Herbert.
54 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
gretted, but to be solemnly redeemed. And if
we are penetrated with this thought, our Past
becomes the mightiest preacher to our Future.
Looking back over the tombs of departed errors,
we behold, by the side of each, the face of a
warning Angel ! It is the prayer of a foolish
heart,
" Oh that my time could return Oh that
this had been done, or that could be undone ;"
rather should we rejoice that so long a season
of reparation yet remains to us, and that Ex-
perience has taught us the lessons of suffering
which make men wise. Wisdom is an acquisition
purchased in proportion to the disappointments
which our own frailties have entailed upon us.
For no one is taught by the sufferings of another.
We ourselves must have felt the burning in or-
der to shun the fire. To refer again to the
beautiful poem I have already quoted, the flowers
that were
"
Fit, while they lived, for smell and ornament,
Serve, after death, for cures.
'
At the age of thirty most men's characters ex-
perience a revulsion. The common pleasures of
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 55
the world have been tasted to the full and begin
to pall. We have reduced to the sobering test
of reality, the "visions of youth we no longer
expect that perfection in our species which our
inexperience at first foretold we no longer
chase frivolities, or hope chimseras. Perhaps
one of the most useful lessons that Disappoint-
ment has taught us, is a true estimate of Love.
For at first we are too apt to imagine that
woman (poor partner with ourselves in the frail-
ties of humanity) must be perfect that the
dreams of the poets have a corporeal being, and
that God has ordained to- us that unclouded
nature that unchanging devotion that seraph
heart, which it has been the great vice of Fiction
to attribute to the daughters of clay. And, in
hoping perfection, with how much excellence
have we been discontented to how many idols
have we changed our worship !
Thirsting for
the Golden Fountain of the Fable, from how
many streams have we turned away, weary and
in disgust ! The experience which teaches us
at last the due estimate of woman, has gone far
56 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
to instruct us in the claims of men. Love, once
the monopolizer of our desires, gives way to
more manly and less selfish passions and we
wake from a false paradise to the real earth.
Not less important is the lesson which teaches
us not to measure mankind by ideal standards
of morality ;
for to imagine too fondly that men
are gods, is to end by believing that they are
demons : the young pass usually through a
period of misanthropy, and the misanthropy is
acute in proportion to their own generous confi-
dence in human excellence. We the least forgive
faults in those from whom we the most expected
excellence. But out of the ashes of misanthropy
Benevolence rises again ;
we find many virtues
where we had imagined all was vice many acts
of disinterested friendship where we had fancied
all was calculation and fraud and so gradually
from the two extremes we pass to the proper
medium; and feeling that no human being is
wholly good, or wholly base, we learn that true
knowledge of mankind which induces us to ex-
pect little and forgive much. The world cures
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 57
alike the optimist and the misanthrope. With-
out this proper and sober estimate of men, we
have neither prudence in the affairs of life, nor
toleration for contrary opinions we tempt the
cheater, and then condemn him we believe so
strongly in one faith, that we would sentence
dissentients as heretics. It is experience alone
that teaches us that he who is discreet is seldom
betrayed, and that out of the opinions we con-
demn, spring often the actions we admire.
At the departure of youth then, in collecting
and investigating our minds, we should feel
ourselves embued with these results for our
future guidance, viz. a knowledge of the true
proportion of the passions, so as not to give
to one the impetus which should be shared by
all ; a conviction of the idleness of petty objects
which demand large cares, and that true gauge
and measurement of men which shall neither
magnify nor dwarf the attributes and materials
of human nature. From these results we draw
conclusions to make us not only wiser but bet-
ter men. The years through which we have
D 5
58 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
passed have probably developed in us whatever
capacities we possess they have taught us
in what we are most likely to excel, and for
what we are most fitted. We may come now
with better success than Rasselas to the Choice
of Life. And in this I incline to believe, that
we ought to prefer that career from which we are
convinced our minds and tempers will derive the
greatest share of happiness not disdaining the
pursuit of honours, or of wealth, or the allure-
ments of a social career but calmly balancing
the advantages and the evils of each course, whe-
ther of private life or of public of retirement or
of crowds, and deciding on each according, not
to abstract rules, not to vague maxims on the
nothingness of fame, or the joys of solitude, but
according to the peculiar bias and temper of our
own minds. For toil to some is
happiness and
rest to others. This man can only breathe in
crowds, and that man only in solitude. Fame
is necessary to the quiet of one nature, and is
void of all attraction to another. Let each
choose his career according to the dictates of his
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 59
own breast- and this, not from the vulgar doc-
trine that our own happiness, as happiness only,
is to be our being's end, and aim, (for in minds
rightly and nobly constituted, there are aims out
of ourselves, stronger than aught of self,) but
because a mind not at ease is rarely virtuous.
Happiness and Virtue react upon each other
the best are not only the happiest, but the hap-
piest are usually the best. Drawn into pursuits,
however estimable in themselves, from which our
tastes and dispositions recoil, we are too apt to
grow irritable, morose, and discontented with our
kind ;
our talents do not spring forth natur-
ally; forced by the heat of circumstance, they
produce unseasonable and unwholesome fruit.
The genius that is roused by things at war with
it, too often becomes malignant, and retaliates
upon men the wounds it receives from circum-
stance ;
but when we are engaged in that course of
life which most flatters our individual bias,whether
it be action or seclusion, literature or business,
we enjoy within us that calm which is the best
atmosphere of the mind, and in which all the
60 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
mind's produce is robust and mellow. Our sense
of contentment makes us kindly and benevolent
to others ;
we are not chafed and galled by cares
which are tyrannical, because ungenial. We are
fulfilling our proper destiny, and those around us
feel the sunshine of our own hearts. It is for this
reason that happiness should be our main object
in the choice of life, because out of happiness
springs that state of mind which becomes virtue :
and this should be remembered by those of
generous and ardent dispositions who would im-
molate themselves for the supposed utility of
others, plunging into a war of things for which
their natures are unsuited. Among the few
truths which Rousseau has left us, none is more
true than this " It is not permitted to a man to
corrupt himself for the sake of mankind." We
must be useful according, not to general theories,
but to our individual capacities and habits. To
be practical we must call forth the qualities we
are able to practise. Each star, shining in its
appointed sphere, each no matter its magnitude
or its
gyration, contributes to the general light.
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 61
To different ages there are different virtues
the reckless generosity of the boy is a wanton
folly in the man. At thirty there is no apology
for the spendthrift. From that period to the
verge of age, is the fitting season for a consider-
ate foresight and prudence in affairs. Approach-
ing age itself we have less need of economy.
And Nature recoils from the miser, caressing
Mammon with one hand, while Death plucks
him by the other. We should provide for our
age, in order that our age may have no ur-
gent wants of this world, to absorb it from the
meditations of the next. It is awful to see the
lean hands of Dotage making a coffer of the
grave ! But while, with the departure of youth,
we enter stedfastly into the great business of
life, while our reason constructs its palaces from
the ruins of our passions while we settle into
thoughtful, and resolute, and aspiring men we
should beware how thus occupied by the world,
the world grow
" too much with us." It is a pe-
rilous age that of ambition and discretion a
perilous age that when youth recedes from us
62 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
if we forget that the soul should cherish its
own youth through eternity ! It is precisely as
we feel how little laws can make us good while
they forbid us to be evil it is precisely as our
experience puts a check upon our impulses it
is precisely as we sigh to own how contami-
nating is example, that we should be on our
guard over our own hearts not, now, lest they
err but rather lest they harden. Now is the
period, when the affections can be easiest scared
when we can dispense the most with Love
when in the lustiness and hardihood of our golden
prime we can best stand alone remote alike
from the ideal yearnings of youth, and the cling-
ing helplessness of age. Now is the time, when
neither the voice of woman, nor the smiles of
children, touch us as they did once, and may
again. We are occupied, absorbed, wrapt in
our schemes and our stern designs. The
world is our mistress, our projects are our chil-
dren. A man is startled when he is told this
truth; let him consider, let him pause if he
be actively engaged, (as few at that age are
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 63
not,) and ask himself if I wrong him? ifj in-
sensibly and unconsciously, he has not retreated
into the citadel of self? Snail-like, he walks
the world, bearing about him his armour and
retreat. Is not this to be guarded against?
Does it not require our caution, lest caution it-
self block up the beautiful avenues of the heart?
What can life give us if we sacrifice what is
fairest in ourselves ? What does experience
profit, if it forbid us to be generous, to be noble
if it counterwork and blight the graces and the
charities, and all that belong to the Tender and
the Exalted without which wisdom is harsh,
and virtue has no music in her name. As Paley
says, that we ought not to refuse alms too
sternly for fear we encourage the idle, lest, on
the other hand, we blunt the heart into a habit
of deafness to the distressed so with the less vul-
i
gar sympathies, shall we check the impulse and
the franknessj and the kindly interpretation, and
the human sensibility, (which are the alms of the
soul,) because they may expose us to occasional
deceit ? Shall the error of softness justify the
64 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
habits of obduracy? and lest we should suffer by
the faults of others, shall we vitiate ourselves ?
This, then, is the age in which, while experi-
ence becomes our guide, we should follow its
dictates with a certain measured, and jealous
caution. We must remember how apt man is
to extremes rushing from credulity and weak-
ness to suspicion and distrust. And still if we
are truly prudent, we shall cherish, despite oc-
casional delusions those noblest and happiest
of our tendencies to love and to confide.
I know not indeed a more beautiful spectacle
in the world than an old man, who has gone
with honour through all its storms and contests,
and who retains to the last the freshness of feel-
ing that adorned his youth. This is the true
green old age this makes a southern winter of
declining years, in which the sunlight warms,
though the heats are gone, such are ever wel-
come to the young and sympathy unites, while
wisdom guides. There is this distinction be-
tween respect and veneration the latter has
always in it something of love.
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 65
This, too, is the age in which we ought calmly
to take the fitting estimate of the opinions of the
world. In youth we are too apt to despise, in
maturity too inclined to over-rate, the sentiments
of others, and the silent influences of the public.
It is right to fix the medium. Among the hap-
piest and proudest possessions of a man is his
character it is a wealth it is a rank of itself.
It usually procures him the honours and rarely
the jealousies of Fame. Like most treasures
that are attained less by circumstances than our-
selves, character is a more felicitous reputation
than glory. The wise man 'therefore despises
not the opinion of the world he estimates it at
its full value he does not wantonly jeopardize
his treasure of a good name he does not rush
from vanity alone, against the received senti-
ments of others he does not hazard his costly
jewel with unworthy combatants and for a petty
stake. He respects the legislation of decorum.
If he be benevolent, as well as wise, he will re-
member that character affords him a thousand
utilities that it enables him the better to for-
66 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
give the erring, and to shelter the assailed. But
that character is built on a false and hollow
basis, which is formed not from the dictates of our
own breast, but solely from the fear of censure.
What is the essence and the life of character?
Principle, integrity, independence ! or, as one
of our great old writers hath it, "that inbred loy-
alty unto Virtue which can serve her without a
livery." These are qualities that hang not upon
any man's breath. They must be formed within
ourselves; they must make ourselves indisso-
luble and indestructible as the soul !
If, con-
scious of these possessions, we trust tranquilly
to time and occasion to render them known ;
we
may rest assured that our character, sooner or
later, will establish itself. We cannot more de-
feat our own object than by a restless and
fevered anxiety as to what the world will say of
us.
Except, indeed, if we are tempted to un-
worthy compliances with what our conscience
disapproves, in order to please the fleeting and
capricious countenance of the time. There is a
moral honesty in a due regard for character
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 67
which will not shape itself to the humours of
the crowd. And this if honest is no less wise.
For the crowd never long esteems those who
flatter it at their own expense. He who has the
suppleness of the demagogue will live to com-
plain of the fickleness of the mob.
If in early youth it is natural sometimes to
brave and causelessly to affront opinion, so also
it is natural, on the other hand, and not perhaps
unamiable, for the milder order of spirits to incur
the contrary extreme and stand in too great an
awe of the voices of the world. They feel as if
they had no right to be confident of their own
judgment they have not tested themselves by
temptation and experience. They are willing
to give way on points on which they are not
assured. And it is a pleasant thing to prop their
doubts on the stubborn asseverations of others.
But in vigorous and tried manhood, we should
be all in all to ourselves. Our own past and
our own future should be our main guides.
" He
who is not a physician at thirty is a fool" a
physician to his mind, as to his body, acquainted
68 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
with his own moral constitution its diseases, its
remedies, its diet, its conduct We should learn
so to regulate our own thoughts and actions,
that while comprising the world, the world
should not bias them. Take away the world
and we should think and act the same a world
to ourselves. Thus trained and thus accustomed
we can bear occasional reproach and momen-
tary slander with little pain. The rough con-
tact of the herd presses upon no sore the
wrongs of the hour do not incense or sadden us.
We rely upon ourselves and upon time. If I
have rightly said that principle is a main essence
of character, principle is a thing we cannot
change or shift. As it has been finely expressed,
"
Principle is a passion for truth,"
* and as an
earlier and homelier writer hath it,
" The truths
of God are the pillars of the world."f The truths
we believe in are the pillars of our world. The
man who at thirty can be easily persuaded out
of his own sense of right, is never respected after
* Hazlitt.
t From a scarce and curious little tract called
" The Simple Cobbler of Aggavvam." 1647.
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 69
he has served a purpose. I do not know even
if we do not think more highly of the intel-
lectual uses of one who sells himself well, than
those of one who lends himself for nothing.
Lastly, this seems to me, above all, an age
which calls upon us to ponder well and thought-
fully upon the articles of our moral and our re-
ligious creed. Entering more than ever into the
mighty warfare of the world, we should summon
to our side whatever auxiliaries can aid us in
the contest to cheer, to comfort, to counsel, to
direct. It is a time seriously to analyse the con-
fused elements of belief to apply ourselves
to such solution of our doubts as reason may
afford us. Happy he who can shelter himself
with confidence under the assurance of immor-
tality, and feel " that the world is not an Inn
but a Hospital a place not to live but to die
in," acknowledging
" that piece of divinity that
is in us that something that was before the
elements, and owes no homage to the sun."* For
him there is indeed the mastery and the con-
*
Religio Medici, Part II. Sect. ii.
70 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
quest, not only over death, but over life ;
and
" he forgets that he can die if he complain of
misery !"
*
I reject all sectarian intolerance I affect
no uncharitable jargon frankly I confess that
I have known many before whose virtues I
bow down ashamed of my own errors, though
they were not guided and supported by Belief.
But I never met with one such, who did not own
that while he would not have been worse, he
would have been happier, could he have believed.
I, indeed, least of all men ought harshly to search
into that Realm of Opinion which no law can
reach ; for I, too, have had my interval of doubt,
of despondency, of the Philosophy of the Garden.
Perhaps there are many with whom Faith the
Saviour, must lie awhile in darkness and the
Grave of Unbelief, ere, immortal and immortal-
izing, it ascend from its tomb a God !
But humbly and reverently comparing each
state with each, I exclaim again,
*
Happy, thrice
happy, he who relies on the eternity of the soul
*
Religio Medici, Part I. Sect. xlir.
ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH. 71
who believes as the loved fall one after
one from his side that they have returned " to
their native country"
* that they await the di-
vine re-union; who feels that each treasure of
knowledge he attains he carries with him
through illimitable being who sees in Virtue,
the essence and the element of the world he is to
inherit, and to which he but accustoms himself
betimes ;
who comforts his weariness amidst the
storms of time, by seeing, far across the melan-
choly seas, the haven he will reach at last who
deems that every struggle has its assured reward,
and every sorrow has its balm-1
who knows, how-
ever forsaken or bereaved below, that he never
can be alone, and never be deserted that above
him is the protection of Eternal Power, and the
mercy of Eternal Love !
Ah, well said the dreamer
of philosophy, "How much He knew of the
human heart who first called GOD our Father !"
As, were our lives limited to a single year, and
we had never beheld the flower that perishes
*
Form of Chinese Epitaphs.
72 ON THE DEPARTURE OF YOUTH.
from the earth restored by the dawning spring,
we might doubt the philosophy that told us it
was not dead, but dormant only for a time ; yet,
to continue existence to another season, would
be to know that the seeming miracle was but
the course of nature ; even so, this life is
to eternity but as a single revolution of the sun,
in which we close our views with the winter of
the soul, when its leaves fade and vanish, and it
seems outwardly to rot away ;
but the seasons
roll on unceasingly over the blank and barren-
ness of the grave and those who, above, have
continued the lease of life, behold the imperish-
able flower burst forth into the second spring !
This hope makes the dignity of man, nor can
I conceive how he who feels it breathing its ex-
alted eloquence through his heart, can be guilty
of one sordid action, or brood over one low de-
sire. To be immortal is to be the companion of
God!
THE WORLD AS IT IS.
A TALE.
VOL. J.
75
THE WORLD AS IT IS.
" WHAT a delightful thing the world is !
Lady
Lennox's ball, last night how charming it was !
every one so kind, and Charlotte looking so
pretty the nicest girl I ever saw ! But I must
dress now. Balfour is to be here at twelve with
the horse he wants to sell me. How lucky I
am to have such a friend as Balfour ! so en-
tertaining so good-natured so devilish clever
too and such an excellent heart ! Ah ! how
unlucky ! it rains a little ;
but never mind, it
will clear up: and if it don't why one can
play at billiards. What a delightful thing the
world is !"
E2
76 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
So soliloquized Charles Nugent, a man of
twenty-one a philanthropist an optimist. Our
young gentleman was an orphan, of good family
and large fortune; brave, generous, confiding,
and open-hearted. His ability was above the
ordinary standard, and he had a warm love, and
a pure taste, for letters. He had even bent a
knee to Philosophy, but the calm and cold
graces with which the goddess receives her
servants had soon discontented the young votary
with the worship.
"
Away !" cried he, one
morning, flinging aside the volume of La Roche-
foucault, which he had fancied he understood ;
"
Away with this selfish and debasing code !
men are not the mean things they are here
described be it mine to think exultingly of my
species !" My dear Experience, with how many
fine sentiments do you intend to play the devil ?
It is not without reason that Goethe tells us,
that though Fate is an excellent, she is also a
very expensive, schoolmistress.
"Ha! my dear Nugent, how are you?" and
Captain Balfour enters the room; a fine dark,
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 77
handsome fellow, with something of pretension
in his air and a great deal of frankness. " And
here is the horse. Come to the window. Does
not he step finely? What action ! Do you
remark his forehand ? How he carries his tail !
Gad, I don't think you shall have him, after
all!"
"
Nay, my dear fellow, you may well be sorry
to part with him. He is superb !
Quite sound
eh?"
" Have him examined."
" Do you think I would not take your word
for it? The price?"
" Fix it yourself. Prince Paul once offered
me a hundred and eighty ;
but to you
"
" You shall have it."
"
No, Nugent say a hundred and fifty."
" I won't be outdone there 's a draft for the
one hundred and eighty guineas."
"
Upon my soul, I'm ashamed ; but you are
such a rich fellow. John, take the horse to
Mr. Nugent's stables. Where will you dine to-
day ? at the Cocoa-tree ?"
78 THE WOULD AS IT IS.
" With all my heart."
The young men rode together. Nugent was
delighted with his new purchase. They dined
at the Cocoa-tree. Balfour ordered some early
peaches. Nugent paid the bill. They went to
the Opera.
" Do you see th&tjigurante, Florine ?" asked
Balfour, Pretty ancle eh ?"
"
Yes, comme $a but dances awkwardly
not handsome."
" What ! not handsome ? Come and talk to
her. She 's more admired than any girl on the
stage."
They went behind the scenes, and Balfour
convinced his friend that he ought to be en-
chanted with Florine. Before the week was
out thejigurante kept her carriage, and in re-
turn, Nugent supped with her twice a-week.
Nugent had written a tale for " The Keep-
sake ;" it was his first literary effort ;
it was
tolerably good, and exceedingly popular. One
day he was lounging over his breakfast, and a
tall, thin gentleman, in black, was announced,
by the name of Mr. Gilpin.
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 79
Mr. Gilpin made a most respectful bow, and
heaved a peculiarly profound sigh. Nugent was
instantly seized with a lively interest in the
stranger.
"
Sir, it is with great regret," fal-
tered forth Mr. Gilpin,
" that I seek you.
I I I
"
A low, consumptive cough checked
his speech. Nugent offered him a cup of tea.
The civility was refused, and the story con-
tinued.
Mr. Gilpin's narration is soon told, when he
himself is not the narrator. An unfortunate
literary man once in affluent circumstances
security for a treacherous friend friend ab-
sconded pressure of unforeseen circumstances
angel wife and four cherub children a book
coming out next season deep distress at pre-
sent horror at being forced to beg forcibly
struck by generous sentiments expressed in the
tale written by Mr. Nugent a ray of hope
broke on his mind and voild the causes of
Mr. Gilpin's distress and Mr. Gilpin's visit.
Never was there a more interesting personifi-
cation of the afflicted man of letters than Gregory
80 THE WORLD AS IT 13.
Gilpin. He looked pale, patient, and respec-
table; he coughed frequently, and he was
dressed in deep mourning. Nugent's heart
swelled he placed a bank-note in Mr. Gilpin's
hands he promised more effectual relief, and
Mr. Gilpin retired, overpowered with his own
gratitude and Mr. Nugenfs respectful com-
passion.
" How happy I am to be rich !" said the
generous young philanthropist, throwing open
his chest.
Nugent went to a converzazione at Lady
Lennox's. Her Ladyship was a widow, and a
charming woman. Shewas a little of the blue, and
a little of the fine lady, and a little of the beauty,
and a little of the coquette, and a great deal of
the sentimentalist. She had one daughter, without
a shilling; she had taken a warm interest in a
young man of the remarkable talents and singular
amiability of Charles Nugent. He sate next her
they talked of the heartlessness of the world
it is a subject on which men of twenty-one and
ladies of forty-five are especially eloquent. Lady
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 81
Lennox complained, Mr. Nugent defended.
" One does not talk much of innocence," it is
said, or something like it is said, somewhere in
Madame d'Epinay's Memoirs,
" without being
sadly corrupted;" and nothing brings out the
goodness of our own hearts more than a charge
against the heartlessness of others.
"An excellent woman!" thought Nugent;
" what warm feelings ! how pretty her daughter
is ! Oh ! a charming family !"
Charlotte Lennox played an affecting air;
Nugent leaned over the piano ; they talked
about music, poetry, going on the water, senti-
ment, and Richmond HilL They made up a
party of pleasure. Nugent did not sleep well
that night he was certainly in love.
When he rose the next morning, the day was
bright and fine; Balfour, the best of friends,
was to be with him in an hour ;
Balfour's horse,
the best of horses, was to convey him to Rich-
mond ;
and at Richmond he was to meet Lady
Lennox, the most agreeable of mothers and
Charlotte, the most enchanting of daughters.
E5
82 THE WORLD AS IT IS..
Thejigurante had always been a bore she was
now forgotten.
" It certainly is a delightful
world !" repeated Nugent, as he tied his neck-
cloth.
It was some time I will not say how long-
after the date of this happy day; Nugent was
alone in his apartment, and walking to and
fro his arms folded, and a frown upon his
brow. " What a rascal ! what a mean wretch !
and the horse was lame when he sold it not
worth ten pounds ! and I so confiding damn
my folly !
That, however, I should not mind ;
but to have saddled me with his cast-off mis-
tress ! to make me the laughing-stock of the
world !
By heavens, he shall repent it ! Bor-
rowed money of me^ then made a jest of my
good-nature ! introduced me to his club, in
order to pillage me! but, thank God, I can shoot
him yet ! Ha ! Colonel ; this is kind !
"
Colonel Nelmore, an elderly gentleman, well
known in society, with a fine forehead, a shrewd,
contemplative eye, and an agreeable address,
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 83
entered the room. To him Nugent poured forth
the long list of his grievances, and concluded by
begging him to convey a challenge to the best of
friends Captain Balfour. The Colonel raised
his eyebrows.
"
But, my dear sir, this gentleman has
certainly behaved ill to you, I allow it but for
what specific offence do you mean to challenge
him?"
" For his conduct in general."
The Colonel laughed.
" For saying yesterday, then, that I was
grown a d d bore, and he should cut me in
future. He told Selwyn so in the bow-window
at White's.
"
The Colonel took snuff.
"
My good young friend," said he,
" I see
you don't know the world. Come and dine with
me to-day a punctual seven. We'll talk over
these matters. Meanwhile, you can't challenge
a man for calling you a bore."
" Not challenge him ! what should I do
then ?"
84 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
"
Laugh shake your head at him, and say
'
Ah !
Balfour, you're a sad fellow !'
"
The Colonel succeeded in preventing the
challenge, but Nugent's indignation at the best
of friends remained as warm as ever. He de-
clined the Colonel's invitation he was to dine
with the Lennoxes. Meanwhile, he went to the
shady part of Kensington Gardens to indulge his
reflections.
He sat himself down in an arbour, and looked
moralizingly over the initials, the dates, and the
witticisms, that hands, long since mouldering,
have consigned to the admiration of posterity.
A gay party were strolling by this retreat
their laughter and their voices preceded them.
"
Yes," said a sharp, dry voice, which Nugent
recognised as belonging to one of the wits of the
day
"
Yes, I saw you, Lady Lennox, talking
sentiment to Nugent fie ! how could you waste
your time so unprofitably !"
" Ah !
poor young man ! he is
certainly
bien bete, with his fine phrases and so forth : but
'tis a good creature on the whole, and exceed-
ingly useful !"
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 85
"Useful!"
" Yes ;
fills up a vacant place at one's table,
at a day's warning ;
lends me his carriage-horses
when mine have caught cold ;
subscribes to my
charities for me : and supplies the drawing-
room with flowers. In a word, if he were more
sensible, he would be less agreeable : his sole
charm is his foibles."
What a description by the most sentimental
of mothers, of the most talented, the most inter-
esting of young men. Nugent was thunder-
struck ;
the party swept by; he was undiscovered.
He raved, he swore, he was furious. He go
to the dinner to-day ! No, he would write such
a letter to the lady it should speak daggers !
But the daughter: Charlotte was not of the
party. Charlotte oh ! Charlotte was quite a
different creature from her mother the most
natural, the most simple of human beings, and
evidently loved him. He could not be mistaken
there. Yes, for her sake he would go to the
dinner: he would smother his just resent-
ment.
86 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
He went to Lady Lennox's. It was a large
party. The young Marquis of Austerly had
just returned from his travels. He was sitting
next to the most lovely of daughters. Nugent
was forgotten.
After dinner, however, he found an opportu-
nity to say a few words in a whisper to Charlotte.
He hinted a tender reproach, and he begged
her to sing
" We met; 'twas in a crowd"
Charlotte was hoarse had caught cold. Char-
lotte could not sing. Nugent left the room, and
the house. When he got to the end of the street,
he discovered that he had left his cane behind.
He went back for it, glad (for he was really in
love) of an excuse for darting an angry glance
at the most simple, the most natural of human
beings, that should prevent her sleeping the
whole night. He ascended the drawing-room ;
and Charlotte was delighting the Marquis of
Austerly, who leaned over her chair, with " We
met ; 'twas in a crowd."
Charlotte Lennox was young, lovely, and
artful. Lord Austerly was young, inexperienced,
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 87
and vain. In less than a month, he proposed,
and was accepted.
"
Well, well !" said poor Nugent one morn-
ing, breaking from a reverie ;
"
betrayed in my
friendship, deceived in my love, the pleasure of
doing good is still left to me. Friendship quits us
at the first stage of life, Love at the second,
Benevolence lasts till death ! Poor Gilpin !
how grateful he is : I must see if I can get him
that place abroad." To amuse his thoughts, he
took up a new magazine. He opened the page
at a violent attack on himself on his beautiful"
tale in the "
Keepsake." . The satire was not
confined to the work ;
it extended to the author.
He was a fop, a coxcomb, a ninny, an intel-
lectual dwarf, a miserable creature, and an
abortion ! These are pleasant studies for a man
out of spirits, especially before he is used to
them. Nugent had just flung the magazine to
the other end of the room, when his lawyer
came to arrange matters about a mortgage,
which the generous Nugent had already been
forced to raise on his estates. The lawyer was
88 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
a pleasant, entertaining man of the world, ac-
customed to the society, for he was accus-
tomed to the wants, of young men. He per-
ceived that Nugent was a little out of humour.
He attributed the cause, naturally enough, to
the mortgage; and to divert his thoughts, he
entered first on a general conversation.
" What rogues there are in the world !
"
said
he. Nugent groaned.
" This morning, for in-
stance, before I came to you, I was engaged in
a curious piece of business enough. A gentle-
man gave his son-in-law a qualification to stand
for a borough: the son-in-law kept the deed,
and so cheated the good gentleman out of more
than three hundred pounds a-year. Yesterday
I was employed against a fraudulent bankrupt
such an instance of long, premeditated, cold-
hearted, deliberate rascality ! And when I
leave you, I must see what is to be done with a
literary swindler, who, on the strength of a con-
sumptive cough, and a suit of black, has been
respectably living on compassion for the last two
years."
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 89
Ha I"
" He has just committed the most nefarious
fraud a forgery, in short, on his own uncle,
who has twice seriously distressed himself to
save the rogue of a nephew, and who must now
submit to this loss, or proclaim, by a criminal
prosecution, the disgrace of his own family.
The nephew proceeded, of course, on his know-
ledge of my client's goodness of heart ;
and thus
a man suffers in proportion to his amiability."
" Is his name Gil Gil Gilpin !" stammered
Nugent.
" The same ! O-ho ! have you been bit, too,
Mr. Nugent?"
Before our hero could answer, a letter was
brought to him. Nugent tore the seal ;
it was
from the editor of the magazine in which he had
just read his own condemnation. It ran thus :
"
Sir, Having been absent from London on
unavoidable business for the last month, and the
care of the Magazine having thereby de-
90 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
volved on another, who has very ill
discharged
its duties, I had the surprise and mortification
of perceiving, on my return this day, that a
most unwarrantable and personal attack upon
you has been admitted in the number for this
month. I cannot sufficiently express my regret,
the more especially on finding that the article
in question was written by a mere mercenary in
letters. To convince you of my concern, and
my resolution to guard against such unworthy
proceedings in future, I enclose you another
and yet severer attack, which was sent to us for
our next number, and for which, I grieve to say,
the unprincipled author has already succeeded in
obtaining from the proprietors a remunera-
tion. .1 have the honour to be, Sir," &c. &c. &c.
Nugenfs eyes fell on the enclosed paper ; it
was in the hand-writing of Mr. Gregory Gilpin,
the most grateful of distressed literary men.
" You seem melancholy to-day, my dear Nu-
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 91
gent," said Colonel Nelmore, as he met his
young friend walking with downcast eyes in the
old mall of St. James's Park.
" I am unhappy, I am discontented; the
gloss is faded from life," answered Nugent,
sighing.
" I love meeting with a pensive man," said
the Colonel :
" let me join you, and let us dine
together, tete-a-tete, at my bachelor's table.
You refused me some time ago ; may I be more
fortunate now?"
" I shall be but poor company," rejoined
Nugent ;
" but I am very much obliged to you,
and I accept your invitation with pleasure."
Colonel Nelmore was a man who had told
some fifty years. He had known misfortune in
his day, and he had seen a great deal of the harsh
realities of life. But he had not suffered nor
lived in vain. He was no theorist, and did not
affect the philosopher; but he was contented
with a small fortune, popular with retired habits,
observant with a love for study, and, above all,
92 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
he did a great deal of general good, exactly be-
cause he embraced no particular system.
"
Yes," said Nugent, as they sat together after*
dinner, and the younger man had unbosomed to
the elder, who had been his father's most inti-
mate friend, all that had seemed to him the most
unexampled of misfortunes after he had re-
peated the perfidies of Balfour, the faithlessness
of Charlotte, and the rascalities of Gilpin
"
Yes," said he,
" I now see my error ;
I no
longer love my species ;
I no longer place reli-
ance in the love, friendship, sincerity, or virtue
of the world ;
I will no longer trust myself open-
hearted in this vast community of knaves ;
I will
not fly mankind, but I will despise them."
The Colonel smiled. " You shall put on your
hat, my young friend, and pay a little visit with
me :
nay, no excuse : it is only an old lady, who
has given me permission to drink tea with her."
Nugent demurred, but consented. The two gen-
tlemen walked to a small house in the Regent's
Park. They were admitted to a drawing-room,
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 93
where they found a blind old lady, of a cheerful
countenance, and prepossessing manners.
" And how does your son do ?" asked the Co-
lonel, after the first salutations were over,
" have
you seen him lately ?"
" Seen him lately !
why you know he rarely
lets a day pass without calling on, or writing to,
me. Since the affliction which visited me with
blindness, though he has nothing to hope from
me, though from my jointure I must necessarily
be a burthen to one of his limited income and
mixing so much with the world as he does ; yet
had I been the richest moth.er in England, and
every thing at my own disposal, he could not
have been more attentive, more kind to me. He
will
cheerfully give up the gayest party to come
and read to me, 'if I am the least unwell, or the
least out of spirits ;
and he sold his horses to pay
Miss Blandly, since I could not afford from my
own income to pay the salary, so accomplished
a musician asked to become my companion.
Music, you know, is now my chief luxury. Oh,
he is a paragon of sons the world think him
94 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
dissipated and heartless; but if
they could see
how tender he is to me !" exclaimed the mo-
ther, clasping her hands, as the tears gushed
from her eyes. Nugent was charmed : the Co-
lonel encouraged the lady to proceed; and
Nugent thought he had never passed a more
agreeable hour than in listening to her maternal
praises of her affectionate son.
"
Ah, Colonel !" said he, as they left the
house, "how much wiser have you been than
myself; you have selected your friends with dis-
cretion. What would I give to possess such a
friend as that good son must be ! But you never
told me the lady's name."
"
Patience," said the Colonel, taking snuff,
" I
have another visit to pay."
Nelmore turned down a little
alley, and
knocked at a small cottage. A woman with a
child at her breast opened the door ;
and Nugent
stood in one of those scenes of cheerful poverty
which it so satisfies the complacency of the rich
to behold.
" Aha !" said Nelmore, looking round,
"
you
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 95
seem comfortable enough now ; your benefactor
has not done his work by halves."
"
Blessings on his heart, no ! Oh, Sir, when
I think how distressed he is himself, how often
he has been put to it for money, how calum-
niated he is by the world, I cannot express how
grateful I am, how grateful I ought to be. He
has robbed himself to feed us, and merely be-
cause he knew my husband in youth."
The Colonel permitted the woman to run on.
Nugent wiped his eyes, and left his purse behind
him. " Who is this admirable, this self-deny-
ing man ?" cried he, when they were once more
in the street.
" He is in distress himself
would I could relieve him !
Ah, you already
reconcile me to the world. I acknowledge your
motive, in leading me hither; there are good
men as well as bad. All are not Balfours and
Gilpins ! But the name the name of these
poor people's benefactor !"
"
Stay," said the Colonel, as they now entered
Oxford-street ;
this is lucky indeed, I see a good
lady whom I wish to accost" "
Well, Mrs. John-
96 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
son," addressing a stout, comely, middle-aged
woman of respectable appearance, who, with a
basket on her arm, was coming out of an oil
shop ;
" so you have been labouring in your vo-
cation I see making household purchases. And
how is
your young lady ?'
"
Very well, Sir, I am happy to say," replied
the old woman, curtseying.
" And you are
well too, I hope, Sir ?'
"
Yes, considering the dissipation of the long
season, pretty well, thank you. But I suppose
your young mistress is as gay and heartless as
ever a mere fashionable wife, eh !"
" Sir !" said the woman, bridling up,
" there
is not a better lady in the world than my young
lady; I have known her since she was that
high!" ,'a
"What, she's good-tempered, I suppose?" said
the Colonel sneering.
"
Good-tempered I believe it is impossible
for her to say a harsh word to any one. There
never was so mild, so even-like a temper."
"
What, and not heartless, eh ! this is too
good !"
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 97
" Heartless ! she nursed me herself when I
broke my leg coming upstairs ;
and every night
before she went out to any party, she would come
into my room with her sweet smile, and see if I
wanted anything."
" And you fancy, Mrs. Johnson, that she '11
make a good wife: why she was not much in
love when she married."
" I don't know as to that, Sir, whether she
was or not ; but I 'm sure she is always studying
my Lord's wishes, and I heard him myself say
this very morning to his brother '
Arthur, if
you knew what a treasure I -possess !'"
" You are very right," said the Colonel, re-
suming his natural manner :
" and I only spoke
for the pleasure of seeing how well and how
justly you could defend your mistress; she is,
truly, an excellent lady good evening to
you."
" I have seen that woman before," said Nu-
gent,
" but I can't think where ;
she has the
appearance of being a housekeeper in some fa-
mily."
VOL. i. F
98 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
She is so."
" How pleasant it is to hear of female excel-
lence in the great world," continued Nugent, sigh-
ing ;
" it was evident to see the honest servant
was sincere in her praise. Happy husband, who-
ever he may be !
"
They were now at the Colonel's house. " Just
let me read this passage," said Nelmore, open-
ing the pages of a French Philosopher, and as I
do not pronounce French like a native, I will
translate as I proceed.
" In order to love mankind expect but little
from them ;
in order to view their faults, without
bitterness, we must accustom ourselves to par-
don them, and to perceive that indulgence
is a justice which frail humanity has a right to
demand from wisdom. Now, nothing tends more
to dispose us to indulgence, to close our hearts
against hatred, to open them to the principles of a
humane and soft morality, than a profound know-
ledge of the human heart. Accordingly, the
wisest men have always been the most indul-
gent," &c.
THE WORLD AS IT IS. 99
" And now prepare to be surprised. That good
son whom you admired so much whom you
wished you could obtain as a friend, is
Captain
Balfour that generous, self-denying man, whom
you desired yourself so nobly to relieve, is Mr.
Gilpin that young lady who in the flush of
health, beauty, dissipation, and conquest, could
attend the sick chamber of her servant, and
whom her husband discovers to be a treasure, is
Charlotte Lennox !"
" Good Heavens !" cried Nugent,
" what then
am I to believe ? has some juggling been prac-
tised on my understanding, and are Balfour,
Gilpin, and Miss Lennox, after all, patterns of
perfection ?
"
No, indeed, very far from it : Balfour is a
dissipated, reckless man of loose morality and
a low standard of honour : he saw you were des-
tined to purchase experience he saw you were
destined to be plundered by some one he
thought he might as well be a candidate for the
profit. He laughed afterwards at your expense,
not because he despised you ; on the contrary,
F2
100 THE WORLD AS IT IS.
I believe that he liked you very much in his
way, but because in the world he lives in, every
man enjoys a laugh at his acquaintance. Char-
lotte Lennox saw in you a desirable match ; nay,
I believe she had a positive regard for you ; but
she had been taught all her life to think equi-
page, wealth, and station better than love. She
could not resist the temptation of being Mar-
chioness of Austerly not one girl in twenty
could ; yet she is not on that account the less
good-tempered, good-natured, nor the less likely
to be a good mistress and a tolerable wife. Gilpin
is the worst instance of the three. Gilpin is an
evident scoundrel ; but Gilpin is in evident dis-
tress. He was, in all probability, very sorry to
attack you who had benefited him so largely ;
but
perhaps, as he is a dull dog, the only thing the
Magazines would buy of him was abuse. You
must not think he maligned you out of malice,
out of ingratitude, out of wantonness; he maligned
you for ten guineas. Yet Gilpin is a man, who,
having swindled his father out of ten guineas,
would in the joy of the moment give five to a
THE WORLD AS IT US. 101
beggar. In the present case he was actuated by
a bettter feeling : he was serving the friend of
his childhood few men forget those youthful
ties, however they break through others. Your
mistake was not the single mistake of supposing
the worst people the best it was the double
mistake of supposing common-place people
now the best now the worst ;
in making
what might have been a pleasant acquaintance
an intimate friend; in believing a man in dis-
tress must necessarily be a man of merit; in
thinking a good-tempered, pretty girl, was an
exalted specimen of Hum'an Nature. You were
then about to fall into the opposite extreme and
to be as indiscriminating in suspicion as you
were in credulity. Would that I could flatter
myself that I had saved you from that the more
dangerous error of the two !"
" You have my dear Nelmore ;
and now
lend me your Philosopher !"
" With pleasure ;
but one short maxim is as
good as all Philosophers can teach you, for Phi-
losophers can only enlarge on it it is
simple
it is this '
TAKE THE WORLD AS IT IS !'
"
KNEB WORTH.
KNEBWORTH.
THE English arrogate to themselves the peculiar
attachment to home the national conviction of
the sacredness of its serene asylum. But the
Ancients seem equally to have regarded the
" veneranda Domus" with love and worship.
By them the hospitable hearth was equally
deemed the centre of unspeakable enjoyments
their gayest poets linger on its attractions
the House as well as the Temple had its secret
penetralia, which no uninitiated stranger might
profane with unbidden presence ; the Household
Gods were their especial deities the most fami-
F5
106 KNEBWORTH.
liarly invoked the most piously preserved. And
a beautiful superstition it was, that of the House-
hold Gods ! a beautiful notion that our ances-
tors, for us at least, were divine, and presided
with unforgetful tenderness over the scene (when
living) of their happiest emotions, and their
most tranquil joys: a similar worship is not only
to be traced to the eldest times beyond the
date of the civilized races that we popularly call
" The Ancients," but is
yet to be found cherished
among savage tribes. It is one of the Universal
proofs how little death can conquer the affections.
But with us are required no graven likeness
no fond idolatries of outward images. We bear
our Penates with us abroad as at home, their
Atrium is the heart. Our Household Gods are
the memories of our childhood the recollections
of the hearth round which we gathered of the
fostering hands which caressed us of the scene
of all the cares and joys the anxieties and the
hopes the ineffable yearnings of love which
made us first acquainted with the mystery and
the sanctity of Home. I was touched once in
KNEBWORTH. 107
visiting an Irish Cabin, which, in the spirit of
condescending kindness, the Lady Bountiful of
the place had transformed into the graceful neat-
ness of an English cottage, training roses up the
wall, glazing the windows, and boarding the mud
floor; I was touched by the homely truth
which the poor peasant uttered as he gazed, half
gratefully, half indignantly, on the change.
" It
is all very kind," said he, in his dialect, which I
am obliged to translate; "but the good lady
does not know how dear to a poor man is every
thing that reminds him of the time when he
played instead of working these great folks do
not understand us." It was quite true ;
on that
mud floor the child had played, round that
hearth, with its eternal smoke, which now ad-
mitted, through strange portals, the uncomfort-
able daylight, he had sate jesting with the kind
hearts that now beat no more. These new com-
forts saddened and perplexed him not because
they were comforts, but because they were new.
They had not the associations of his childhood ;
the great folks did not understand him ; they de-
108 KNEBWORTH.
spised his indifference to greater luxuries. Alas !
they did not perceive that in that indifference
there was all the poetry of sentiment The good
lady herself dwelt in an old-fashioned, inconve-
nient, mansion. Suppose some oppressive be-
nefactor had converted its dingy rooms and
dreary galleries into a modern, well-proportioned,
and ungenially cheerful residence, would she
have been pleased ? Would she not have missed
the nursery she had played in? the little par-
lour by whose hearth she could yet recall to
fancy the face of her mother long gone?
Would ottomans and mirrors supply the place
of the old worm-eaten chair from which her
father, on sabbath nights, had given forth the
holy lecture ? or the little discoloured glass in
which thirty years ago, she had marked her own
maiden blushes, when some dear name was sud-
denly spoken? No, her old paternal house,
rude though it be, is dearer to her than a new
palace; can she not conceive that the same
feelings may make " the hut to which his soul
conforms," dearer to the peasant than the new
KNEBWORTH. 109
residence which is as a palace to him ?
Why
should that be a noble and tender sentiment
in the rich, which is scorned as a brutal apathy
in the poor ? The peasant was right
*
Great
folks understand him not !'
Amidst the active labours, in which, from my
earliest youth, I have been plunged, one of the
greatest luxuries I know is to return, for short
intervals, to the place in which the happiest days
of my childhood glided away. It is an old ma-
norial seat that belongs to my mother, the heiress
of its former lords. The house, formerly of vast
extent, built round a quadrangle, at different
periods, from the date of the second crusade to
that of the reign of Elizabeth, was in so ruinous
a condition when she came to its possession, that
three sides of it were obliged to be pulled down :
the fourth yet remaining, and much embellished
in its architecture, is in itself one of the largest
houses in the county, and still contains the old
oak hall, with its lofty ceiling, and raised music
gallery. The place has something of the character
of Penshurst, and its venerable avenues, which
110 KNEBWORTH.
slope from the house down the declivity of the
park, giving wide views of the opposite hills
crowded with cottages and spires, impart to the
scene that peculiarly English, half stately, and
wholly cultivated, character which the poets of
Elizabeth's day so much loved to linger upon.
As is often the case with similar residences, the
church stands in the park, at a bow-shot from
the house, and formerly the walls of the outer
court nearly reached the green sanctuary that
surrounds the sacred edifice. The church itself,
dedicated anciently to St. Mary, is worn and grey,
in the simplest architecture of the ecclesiastical
Gothic, and, standing on the brow of the hill, its
single tower at a distance blends with the turrets
of the house, so that the two seem one pile.
Beyond, to the right, half-way down the hill,
and neighboured by a dell, girded with trees, is
an octagon building of the beautiful Grecian
form, erected by the present owner it is the
mausoleum of the family. Fenced from the
deer, is a small surrounding space sown with
flowers those fairest children of the earth, which
KNEBWORTH. Ill
the custom of all ages has dedicated to the
Dead. The modernness of this building, which
contrasts those in its vicinity, seems to me, from
that contrast, to make its object more im-
pressive. It stands out alone, in the venerable
landscape with its immemorial hills and trees,
the prototype of the Thought of Death a thing
that dating with the living generation, ad-
monishes them of their recent lease and its
hastening end. For with all our boasted an-
tiquity of race, we ourselves are the ephemera of
the soil, and bear the truest relation, so far as our
mortality is concerned, with that which is least old.
The most regular and majestic of the avenues
I have described conducts to a sheet of water,
that lies towards the extremity of the park. It
is but small in proportion to the domain, but is
clear and deep, and, fed by some subterraneous
stream, its tide is fresh and strong beyond its
dimensions. On its
opposite bank is a small
fishing-cottage, whitely peeping from a thick and
gloomy copse of firs, and larch, and oak, through
which shine, here and there, the red berries of
112 KNEBWORTH.
the mountain ash ;
and behind this, on the other
side of the brown, moss-grown deer paling, is a
wood of considerable extent This, the farther
bank of the water, is
my favourite spot. Here,
when a boy, I used to while away whole holy
days, basking indolently in the noon of summer,
and building castles in that cloudless air, until
the setting of the sun.
The reeds then grew up, long and darkly
green, along the margin ; and though they have
since yielded to the innovating scythe, and I
hear the wind no longer glide and sigh amidst
those earliest tubes of music, yet the whole sod
is still fragrant, from Spring to Autumn, with
innumerable heaths and wild flowers, and the
crushed odours of the sweet thyme. And never
have I seen a spot which the butterfly more loves
to haunt, particularly that small fairy, blue-
winged species which is tamer than the rest,
and seems almost to invite you to admire it
throwing itself on the child's mercy as the robin
upon man's. The varieties of the dragon-fly,
glittering in the sun, dart ever through the
KNEBWORTH. 1 13
boughs and along the water. It is a world
which the fairest of the insect race seem to have
made their own. There is something in the
hum and stir of a summer noon, which is inex-
pressibly attractive to the dreams of the imagi-
nation. It fills us with a sense of life, but a life
not our own it is the exuberance of creation
itself that overflows around us. Man is absent,
but h'fe is present Who has not spent hours in
some such spot, cherishing dreams that have no
connexion with the earth, and courting with half
shut eyes, the images of the Ideal ?
Stretched on the odorous grass, I see on the
opposite shore that quiet church, where the rude
forefathers of the hamlet sleep that mauso-
leum where my own dust shall rest at last, and
the turrets of my childhood's home. All so so-
litary and yet so eloquent ! Now the fern waves
on the slope, and the deer comes forth, march-
ing with his stately step to the water-side to
pause and drink. O Nymphs ! O Fairies !
O Poetry, I am yours again !
I do not know how it is, but every year that
114 KNEBWORTH.
I visit these scenes I have more need of their
solace. My departed youth rises before me in
more wan and melancholy hues, and the past
saddens me more deeply with the present Yet
every year, perhaps, has been a stepping-stone
in the ambition of my boyhood, and brought me
nearer to the objects of my early dreams. It is not
the mind that has been disappointed, it is the
heart. What ties are broken what affections
marred ! the Egeria of my hopes, no cell con-
ceals, no spell can invoke her now !
Every
pausing-place in the life of the ambitious is
marked alike by the trophy and the tomb. But
little men have the tomb without the trophy !
It is a small, and sequestered, and primitive
village that of Knebworth, though but thirty miles
from London ; consisting of scattered cottages,
with here and there a broad green patch of
waste land before the doors ;
and one side of
the verdant lane, which makes the principal
street, is skirted by the palings of the lesser park,
which is not devoted to the deer. The steward's
house, and the clergyman's, are the only ones
KNEBWORTH. 115
(save the manor-house itself) aspiring to gen-
tility.
And here, nevertheless, did Dame Nature
find her varieties many were they and duly
contrasted, when first, in the boundless sociability
of childhood, we courted the friendship of every
villager. The sturdy keeper, a stalwart man
and a burley, whose name was an heirloom on
the estates; and who, many years afterwards,
under another lord, perished in a memorable
fray with the implacable poachers ; the simple,
horn-eyed idiot, basking before the gardener's
door, where he lodged a privileged pensioner,
sitting hour after hour, from sun-rise to sun-
set what marvels did not that strange passive
existence create in us the young, the buoyant,
the impetuous ! how we used to gather round
him, and gaze, and wonder how he could pass
his time without either work or play ! the one
Patriarch beggar of the place, who seemed to
beg from vanity not from want ; for, as he doffed
his hat, his long snow-white locks fell, parted on
either side, down features of apostolic beauty
and many an artist had paused to sketch the ve-
116 KNEBWORTH.
nerable head; the single Lais of the place, stout
and sturdy, with high cheekbones and tempting
smile, ill-favoured enough it is true, but boast-
ing her admirers ;
the genius, too, of the village
a woman with but one hand, who could turn
that hand to any thing ; nominally presiding
over the dairy, she was equally apt at all the
other affairs of the public life of a village.
Dogs, cows, horses none might be ill or well
without her august permission ;
in every quarrel
she was witness, juryman, and judge. Never
had any one more entirely the genius of action :
she was always in every thing, and at the head
of every thing mixing, it is true, with all her
energy and arts, a wonderful fidelity and spirit
of clanship towards her employer. Tall, dark,
and muscular was she ;
a kind of caught-and-
tamed Meg Merriles !
But our two especial friends were an old
couple, quartered in a little angle of the village,
who, hard on their eightieth yetir, had jogged on,
for nearly sixty revolutions of the sun, hand in
hand together, and never seemed to have stum-
KNEBWORTH. 117
bled on an unkind thought towards each other.
The love of those two old persons was the
most perfect, the most beautiful I ever beheld.
Their children had married and grown up and
left them they were utterly alone. Their sim-
ple affections were all in all to them. They had
never been to London, never above fifteen miles
from the humble spot where they had been born,
and where their bones were to repose. Them
the march of Knowledge had never reached.
They could neither read nor write. Old Age
had frozen up the portals of Intellect before the
schoolmaster had gone his' rounds. So ignorant
were they of the world, that they scarce knew the
name of the king. Changes of ministry, peace
and war, the agitations of life, were as utter no-
things to them as to the wildest savage of
Cafrraria. Few, as the Arithmetic of Intellect
can comprise, were their ideas ; but they wanted
not to swell the sum, for the ideas were centred,
with all that the true sentiment of love ever
taught the wisest, within each other. If out of
that circle extended their radii of love, it was to
118 KNEBWORTH.
the family under whom they had vegetated, and
to us who were its young hopes. Us indeed
they did love warmly, as something that be-
longed to them. And scarcely a day ever passed
but what, in all the riot and glee of boyhood,
with half a score of dogs at our heels we used
to rush into the quiet of that lonely cottage
scrambling over the palings bustling through
the threshold sullying, with shoes that had made
a day's circuit through all the woods and plant-
ings, the scrupulous cleanliness of the hearth,
and making their old hearts glad, and proud,
and merry by the very discomfort we occasioned.
Then were the rude chairs drawn into the jaws
of that wide ingle nook then was the new log
thrown on the hearth then would the old dame
insist upon chafing our hands numbed with the
cold, as one of us ah, happiest he ! drew
forth the fragment of cake, or the handful of
figs and raisins brought to show that they had
not been forgotten. And, indeed, never were
they forgotten by a more powerful hand and a
more steady heart than ours, for daily from the
KNEBWORTH. 119
hall came the savoury meal which, the old wo-
man carved tenderly for her husband, (for his
hands were palsied,) and until his appetite was
sated, sate apart and refused to share. Old Age,
so seldom unselfish ! and the old age of the poor
peasant woman, how many young hearts full
of the phrases of poetry and the mockeries of
sentiment, would it have shamed !
I see the old man now in a great high-
backed tapestry chair, which had been a part of
the furniture of the old manor house: in his
youth he had been on the sporting establishment
of a former squire, my grandfather's predecessor
and uncle, and he had contrived to retain still,
fresh and undimmed, through how many years
Time might forget to register, a habit of green
_
velvet, whose antiquated cut suited well his long
grey locks and venerable countenance. Poor
Newman Hagar ! a blessing on that old head
surely you are li
ving yet ! while I live, you are
not all vanished all swallowed up by the obli-
vious earth. And, even after I have joined you,
this page, surviving both, shall preserve you
120 KNEBWORTH.
amongst those whom the world does not willingly
let perish ! And on the opposite side of the hearth
sate the partner of that obscure and harmless ex-
istence, with a face which, when we were there,
never was without a smile at our presence, or a
tear for our parting. Plain though her features
must ever have been, and worn and wrinkled as
they were then, I never saw a countenance in which
not the intellect, but the feeling of our divine na-
ture, had left a more pleasant and touching trace.
Sometimes, as the winter day closed in, and
dogs and children crowded alike round the com-
fortable fire, we delighted to make the old man
tell us of his dim memories of former squires
the notes of bugles long silenced the glories of
coaches and six long vanished how the squire
was dressed in scarlet and gold and how my
lady swept the avenues in brocade. But plea-
santer to me, child as I was, was it to ques-
tion the good old folks of their own past fortunes
of their first love, and how they came to
marry, and how, since, they had weathered the
winds of the changing world.
KNEBWORTH. 121
" And I dare say you have scolded your wife
very often, Newman,
"
said I once : Old New-
man looked down, and the wife took up the
reply.
" Never to signify and if he has, I deserved
it"
" And I dare say, if the truth were told, you
have scolded him quite as often."
"
Nay," said the old woman, with a beauty of
kindness which all the poetry in the world can-
not excel,
" how can a wife scold her good man,
who has been working for her and her little ones
all the day ? It may be for a man to be peevish,
for it is he who bears the crosses of the world
but who should make him forget them but his
own wife ? And she had best, for her own sake
for nobody can scold much when the scolding is
only on one side."
Who taught this poor woman her wisdom of
Love ? Something less common than ordinary
Nature, something better than mere womanhood.
For, verily, there are few out of novels to whom
VOL. i. G
KNEBWORTH.
either Nature or Womanhood hath communi-
cated a similar secret !
And we grew up from children to boys from
boyhood to youth. And old Hagar died he
died during my absence ;
and when I returned
I called at the old woman's solitary house I
opened the latch there she sate by the hearth
with dull, lack-lustre eyes. And Newman's
high chair was opposite in the accustomed place,
and the green velvet habit was folded carefully on
the seat. Poor old woman ! her pleasure at seeing
me could be revived no more. She was past
all pleasure. Year after year Time had essayed
in vain to numb her gentle feelings and kindly
sympathies: but one single hour that had taken
from her side its
helpmate had done the allotted
task. Newman was dead and the widow could
feel no more. She lived on but it was clock-
work. She did not seem to mourn for him so
much as to be indifferent to every thing else.
Once only I saw her weep it was when, out of
compassion for her solitary age, we wished to
KNEBWORTH. 123
place a companion a nurse in the cottage.
" The sooner I'm dead the better," she said.
" How can I bear to see a strange face where the
old man used to sit ?"
It is over now the broken bridge is
past
they are again united. If I were an Atheist for
myself I would still
pray that there may be a hea-
ven for the Poor ! Without another world, who
can solve the riddle of the disparities of this ?
How many hours in the summer nights have
I passed in the churchyard, which lies embedded
in that green and venerable park !
There, no
unseemly decorations maintain, after the great
era of Equality has commenced, the paltry dis-
tinctions of the Past ;
distinctions of a day
the Equality of the Eternal !
There, for the most
part unmarked and unrecorded, rise the green
hillocks of the humble dead or, where the stone
registers a little while the forgotten name and
departed date, the epitaph is
simple and the
material rude. It is the very model the very
ideal, of the country church ; so quiet is it so
solitary so ancient so unadorned. It is the
G 2
124 KNEBWORTH.
spot above all others where Death teaches not
as the spectre, but the angel ; obtruding on us
no unreal terror, but eloquent with its great and
tender moral of "
Repose" And who has not
felt his heart echo to that saying of the brilliant
Frenchwoman's,
* half intended as a point, but
carried by nature, against the very will of the
speaker, into a homely and most touching truth ;
" At times I feel the want to die, as the wake-
ful feel the want to sleep !"
This is the justest of similes worn, wearied,
and sated, who has not felt the want to die, as the
wakeful the want to sleep ? But this is not the
lesson which, after a little thought, the true mo-
rality of the Grave bequeaths. No, it is from
Death that we extract the noble and magnificent
lesson of life. Awed by the sense of its short-
ness, we turn away elevated also by its objects.
If short, let us crowd it with generous and use-
ful deeds if
eternity be at hand, let us prepare
ourselves for its threshold, by the aims and ends
which are most worthy of the soul ;
and by the
* Madame du Deffand.
KNEBWORTH. 125
glory of our own thoughts and our own deeds,
walk naturally as it were to the Immortal. Fill-
ing ourselves with this ambition, we rise beyond
our sorrows and our cares we conquer the
morbid darkness that satiety gathers round us,
and take from the Dead a moral won from their
spirits and not their dust. He who fails in this,
penetrates not the true philosophy of the tomb.
The churchyard the village the green sward
the woods the fern-covered hills the water-
side, odorous with the reeds and thyme
the deep-shagged dells the plain where the
deer couch, all united and blended together,
make to me, the place above all others, which
renews my youth and redeems it from the in-
fluences of the world. All know some such
spot blessed and blessing ;
the Ka'aba of the
Earth the scene of their childhood the haunt
of their fondest recollections. And while it is
yet ours to visit it at will while it yet rests in
the dear and sacred hands to which it belonged
of yore while no stranger sits at the hearth,
and no new tenants chase away
" the old familiar
l'J6 KNEBWORTH.
faces," who has not felt as if in storm and
shower, there was a shelter over his head as if
he were not unprotected as if fate preserved
a sanctuary to the fugitive and life, a fountain
to the weary ?
A blessing upon that Home, and upon its
owner ! In the presence of a Mother we feel
that our childhood has not all departed ! It
is as a barrier between ourselves and the ad-
vance of Time. Chased and wearied out by
the Cares of Manhood, we enter the temple
dedicated to Youth, (" a guardian standing
near us,"*) and our persecutors sleep while
we linger at the altar.
*
^Eschylus The Furies.
THE
CHOICE OF PHYLTAS.
A TALE.
THE
CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
PHYLIAS was a young Athenian, whom the pre-
cepts of Socrates had reared in the two great
principles (or rather, perhaps, affections) which
a State should encourage in her sons the desire
of Glory, and the worship of Virtue. He wished
at once to be great and to be good. Un-
fortunately Phylias nourished a third wish,
somewhat less elevated, but much more com-
monly entertained the wish to be loved ! He
had a strong thirst for general popularity as
130 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
well as esteem ; and to an aspiring soul he
united a too-susceptible heart.
One day, as he was wandering amongst the
olive-groves that border Cephisus, and indulg-
ing in those reveries on his future destiny which
make the happiest prerogative of the young, his
thoughts thus broke into words :
"
Yes, I will devote my life to the service of
my countrymen : I will renounce luxury and
ease. Not for me shall be the cooks of Sicily,
or the garlands of Janus. My chambers shall
not steam with frankincense, nor resound with
the loud shouts of Ionic laughter. No ;
I will
consecrate my youth to the pursuit of wisdom,
and the practice of virtue; so shall I become
great, and so beloved. For when I have thus
sacrificed my enjoyments to the welfare of others,
shall they not all honour and esteem me ? Will
they not insist that I take the middle couch at
the public festivals ? and will not all the friends
of my youth contend which shall repose upon
my bosom ? It is happy to be virtuous ; but, O
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 131
Socrates, is it not even happier to be universally
beloved for your virtue?"
While Phylias was thus soliloquizing, he heard
a low sweet laugh beside him ; and, somewhat
startled at the sound for he had fancied himself
entirely alone he turned hastily round, and
beheld a figure of very singular appearance.
It was a tall man, in the prime of life ;
but one
side of the face and form was utterly different
from the other: on one side the head was
crowned with the festive wreath the robes
flowed loose and disordered joy and self-com-
placency sparkled on the smiling countenance.
You beheld a gaiety which you could not help
liking ;
but an air of levity which you could not
respect. Widely contrasted was the other half
of this strange apparition: without crown or
garland, after the fashion of a senator of the Areo-
pagus, flowed the sober locks; the garb was
costly, but decent and composed ;
and in the
eye and brow the aspect was dignified and lofty,
but somewhat pensive, and clouded either by
thought or care : in the one half you beheld a
132 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
boon companion, whom you would welcome and
forget in the other a lofty monitor, from whom
you shrank in unacknowledged fear, and whom
even in esteeming you were willing carefully to
shun.
" And who art thou ? And from what foreign
country comest thou?" asked the Athenian, in
astonishment and awe.
" I come from the land of the Invisibles,"
answered the apparition :
" and I am thy tute-
lary demon. Thou art now of that age, and
hast attained to that height of mind, in which it
is permitted me to warn and to advise thee.
What vain dreams, O Phylias, have crept into
thy mind ! Dost thou not see that thou art
asking two boons utterly incompatible with each
other universal fame and universal regard?
Take thy choice of either; thou canst not com-
bine both. Look well at the guise and garb in
which I appear to thee; if thou wouldst be
loved, thou seest in one half of me the model
which thou shouldst imitate ;
if renowned, the
other half presents thee also with an example.
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 133
But how canst thou hope to unite both ? Look
again ; can any contrast be stronger ? Can any
opposites be more extreme? Waste not thy
life in a chimera. Be above thy race, and be
hated; be of their own level, and be loved.
Thou hast thy choice !"
"False demon!" answered Phylias; "thou
wouldst sicken me of life itself couldst thou
compel me to be hated on the one hand, or
worthy to be despised on the other. Thou
knowest not my disposition. It hath in it no-
thing cynical or severe; neither should I pre-
sume upon any distinction I might attain.
Why should men hate me merely for proving
the sincerity of my affection to them ? Away !
thou utterest folly or fraud, and art not of that
good race of demons of which Socrates was
wont to speak."
Once more the demon laughed.
" Thou wilt
know me better one of these days; and what
now thou deemest/o%, thou wilt then term ex-
perience. Thou resolvest, then, to seek for
glory ?"
134 THE CHOICE OF PIIYLIAS.
" With my whole soul !" cried the Athenian.
" Be it so; and from time to time contrast
thyself with Glaucus. Farewell !
"
The apparition vanished: musing and be-
wildered Phylias returned home.
His resolutions were not shaken, nor his
ambition damped. He resigned the common
pleasures of his youth ;
he braced his limbs by
hardihood and temperance, and fed the sources
of his mind from the quiet fountain of wisdom.
The first essays of his ambition were natural
to his period of life. He went through the
preparatory exercises, and entered himself a
candidate for the victoral crown at the Olympic
Games. On the day preceding that on which
the Games commenced, Phylias met amongst
the crowd, which a ceremony of such brilliant
attraction had gathered together at Olympia, a
young man whom he had known from his child-
hood. Frank in his manner, and joyous in his
disposition, Glaucus was the favourite of all who
knew him.
Though possessed of considerable talents, no
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 135
one envied him; for those talents were never
exerted in order to distinguish himself his am-
bition was to amuse others. He gave way to
every caprice of his own or of his comrades,
provided that it promised pleasure. Supple
and versatile, even the sturdiest philosophers
were charmed with his society ;
and the loosest
profligates swore sincerely that they loved, be-
cause they were not driven to respect, him.
His countenance never shamed them into a
suspicion that their career was ignoble; and
they did justice to his talents, because they
could sympathize with his foibles.
" You do not contend for any of the prizes,
I think," said Phylias ;
" for I do not remember
to have seen you at the preparatory exercises ?"
" Not I, by Hercules," answered Glaucus,
gaily.
" I play in the Games the part I play
in Life I am merely a spectator. Could I
drink more deeply, or sleep more soundly, if
my statue were set up in the sacred wood?
Alas ! no. Let my friends love Glaucus their
comrade not hate Glaucus their rival. And
you?"
136 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
" I am a competitor in the chariot race."
" Success to you ! I shall offer up my sacri-
fice for your triumph ; meanwhile I am going to
hear Therycides read his new play. Fare-
well !"
" What a charming person is Glaucus !"
thought Phylias.
Even Phylias liked Glaucus the better for
knowing Glaucus was not to be his anta-
gonist.
The morning rose the hour of trial came on.
With a flushed cheek, and a beating heart,
Phylias mounted his chariot. He was success-
ful: his locks were crowned with the olive-
wreath. He returned to Athens amidst the
loudest acclamations. His chariot rolled through
the broken wall of his native city; the poets
lauded him to the skies. Phylias had com-
menced the career of fame ; and its first fruits
were delicious. His parents wept with joy at
his triumph ;
and the old men pointed him out
as a model to their sons. Sons hate models;
and the more Phylias was praised, the more
THE CHOICE OF PHYL1AS. 137
his contemporaries disliked him. When the
novelty of success was cooled, he began to feel'
that the olive-crown had its thorns. If he met
his young friends in the street, they saluted him
coldly :
" We do not ask you to come to us," said
they ;
"
you have weightier matters on hand
than our society can afford. We are going to
sup with Glaucus: while you are meditating,
we suppose, the best way to eclipse Alci-
biades."
Meetings like these threw an embarrassment
over the manner of Phylias himself. He thought
that he was ill-treated, and retired into the
chamber of pride. He became shy, and he was
called supercilious.
The Olympic Games do not happen every
day, and Phylias began to feel that he who is
ambitious has no option between excitement and
exhaustion. He therefore set about preparing
himself for a nobler triumph than that of a
charioteer ;
and from the government of horses
aspired to the government of men. He fitted
himself for the labours of public life, and the
138 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
art of public speaking. He attended the po-
pular assemblies he rose into repute as an
orator.
Every one knows that at that time Athens
was torn by intestine divisions. Alternately
caressing and quarrelling with the passionate
Alcibiades, his countrymen now saw him a foe
in Sparta, and now hailed him a saviour in
Athens. Phylias, dreading the ambition of that
unprincipled genius, and yet resisting the en-
croaching tyranny of the four hundred rulers,
performed the duty of a patriot, and, pleading
for liberty, displeased both parties. Nothing
could be more disinterested than his conduct, or
more admired than his speeches. He proved
his virtue, and he established his fame ;
and
wherever he went he was universally abused.
He frequently met with Glaucus, who, taking
no share in politics, was entertained by all
parties, and the most popular man of Athens,
because the most unobtrusive.
" You are become a great man now," said
Glaucus to him one day ;
" and you will doubt-
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 139
less soon arrive at the last honour Athens can
confer upon her children. Your property will
be confiscated, and your person will be exiled."
" No !" said Phylias, with generous emotion ;
" truth is great, and must prevail. Misinter-
pretation and slander will soon die away, and my
countrymen will do me justice."
" The gods grant it !" said the flattering
Glaucus. " No man merits it more."
In the short intervals of repose that public
life allowed to the Athenians, Phylias contrived
to fall in love.
Chyllene was beautiful 'as a dream. She was
full of all amiable qualities ;
but she was a hu-
man being, and fond of an agreeable life.
In his passion for Chyllene, Phylias, for the
first time in his career, found a rival in Glaucus ;
for love was the only passion in which Glaucus
did not shun to provoke the jealousy of the
powerful. Ghyllene was sorely perplexed which
to choose :
Phylias was so wise, but then Glau-
cus was so gay ; Phylias was so distinguished,
but then Glaucus was so popular ; Phylias made
140 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
excellent speeches, but then how beautifully
Glaucus sung !
Unfortunately, in the stern and manly pur-
suits of his life, Phylias had necessarily outgrown
those little arts of pleasing which were so accept-
able to the ladies of Athens. He dressed with
a decorous dignity, but not with the studied,
yet easy, graces of Glaucus. How, too, amidst
all his occupations, could he find the time to
deck the doors of his beloved with garlands, to
renew the libations on her threshold, and to
cover every wall in the city with her name
added to the flattering epithet of KO\T). But
none of these important ceremonies were ne-
glected by Glaucus, in whom the art to please
had been the sole study of life. Glaucus gained
ground daily.
" I esteem you beyond all men," Chyllene
could say to Phylias without a blush. But she
trembled, and said nothing, when- Glaucus ap-
proached.
" I love you better than all things !
"
said
Glaucus, passionately, one day to Chyllene.
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 141
" I love you better than all things, save my
country," said Phylias the same morning.
"
Ah, Phylias is doubtless the best patriot,"
thought Chyllene ;
" but Glaucus is
certainly
the best lover!"
The very weaknesses of Glaucus were charm-
ing, but his virtues gave Phylias a little of aus-
terity. With Phylias Chyllene felt ashamed of
her faults ;
with Glaucus she was only aware of
her excellence.
Alcibiades was now the idol of Athens. He
prepared to set out with a hundred ships for
the Hellespont, to assist the allies of Athens.
Willing to rid the city of so vigilant a guard
upon his actions as Phylias, he contrived that
the latter should be appointed to a command in
the fleet. The rank of Glaucus obtained him a
lesser but distinguished appointment.
Chyllene was in danger of losing both her
lovers.
" Wilt thou desert me ?" said she to Phylias.
" Alas !
my country demands it. I shall re-
turn to thee covered with laurels."
14'2 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
"Andthou, Glaucus?"
" Perish Alcibiades, and Greece herself, be-
fore I quit thee !" cried Glaucus, who, had
there been no mistress in the case, would never
willingly have renounced luxury for danger.
Phylias, with a new incentive to glory, and a
full confidence in the sympathy of his beloved,
set out for Andria. Glaucus was taken sud-
denly ill, remained at home, and a month after-
wards his bride Chyllene was carried by torch-
light to his house. It is true that every body
at Athens detected the imposition; but every
one laughed at it
good-humouredly; "for
Glaucus," said they, "never set up for a pa-
ragon of virtue !" Thus his want of principle
was the very excuse for wanting it.
The expedition to Andria failed Alcibiades
was banished again and Phylias, though he
had performed prodigies of valour, shared in the
sentence of his leader. His fellow-citizens were
too glad of an excuse to rid themselves of that
unpleasant sensation which the superiority of
another always inflicts on our self-love.
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 143
Years rolled away. Phylias had obtained all
that his youth coveted of glory. Greece rang
with his name ;
he was now aged, an exile, and
a dependent at the Persian court. There, every
one respected, but no one loved him. The
majesty of his mien, the simplicity of his man-
ners, the very splendour of his reputation, made
the courtiers of Persepolis uneasy in his pre-
sence. He lived very much alone; and his
only recreation was in walking at evening
amongst the alleys of a wood, that reminded
him of the groves of Athens, and meditating
over the past adventures of his life.
It happened that at this time Glaucus, who
had survived both his wife and his patrimony,
had suffered himself, under the hope of re-
pairing his broken fortunes, to be entrapped
into a conspiracy to restore the Oligarchy, after
the death of Conon, He was detected, and his
popularity did not save him from banishment.
He sought refuge at Persepolis : the elastic
gaiety of his disposition still continued, and over
his grey hairs yet glowed the festive chaplet of
144 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
roses. The courtiers were delighted with his
wit the king could not feast without him:
they consulted Phylias, but they associated with
Glaucus.
One evening as Phylias was musing in his
favourite grove, and as afar off he heard the
music and the merriment of a banquet, (held
by the king in his summer-house, and with
Glaucus at his right hand,) the melancholy exile
found himself gently plucked by the hem of his
garment He turned hastily round, and once
more beheld his genius.
"
Thy last hour fast approaches," said the
demon ;
"
again, then, I come to visit thee. At
the morning of life I foretold that fate which
should continue to its close: I bade thee de-
spair of uniting celebrity and love. Thou hast
attempted the union what hath been thy suc-
cess?"
"
Mysterious visitor !
"
answered Phylias,
"
thy words were true, and my hope was formed
in the foolishness of youth. I stand alone,
honoured and unloved. But surely this is not
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 145
the doom of all who have pursued a similar
ambition."
" Recollect thyself," replied the phantom :
" was not thy master Socrates persecuted unto
death, and Aristides ostracised on account of his
virtues? Canst thou name one great man who
in life was not calumniated for his services?
Thou standest not alone. To shine is to injure
the self-love of others ;
and self-love is the most
vindictive of human feelings."
" Yet had I not been an Athenian," murmured
Phylias,
" I might have received something of
gratitude."
"
They call Athens ungrateful," answered the
spectre ;
" but every where, while time lasts,
the ingratitude shall be the same. One state
may exile her illustrious men, another merely
defame them; but day is not more separate
from night, than true fame from general popu-
larity."
" Alas ! thou teachest a bitter lesson," said
Phylias, sighing ;
"
better, then, to renounce
the glory which separates us from the indulgent
VOL. i. H
140 THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS.
mercies of our kind. Has not my choice been
an error, as well as a misfortune?"
The countenance of the genius became sud-
denly divine. Majesty sat upon his brow, and
unspeakable wisdom shone from his piercing
eyes, as he replied,
" Hark ! as thou askest of
me thy unworthy question, the laugh of the
hoary Glaucus breaks upon thy ear. The gods
gave to him the privilege to be beloved and
despised. Wouldst thou, were the past at thy
control, wouldst thou live the life that he hath
lived ? wouldst thou, for the smiles of revellers,
or for the heart of the mistress of thy manhood,
feel that thy career had been worthless, and that
thy sepulchre should be unknown ? No ; by the
flush upon thy cheek, thou acknowledgest that
to the great the pride of recollection is sufficient
happiness in itself. Thy only error was in this,
the wish to obtain the fleeting breath of popular
regard, as the reward for immortal labours.
The illustrious should serve the world, unheed-
ing of its frail applause. -The whisper of their
own hearts should convey to them a diviner
THE CHOICE OF PHYLIAS. 147
music than the huzzas of crowds. Thou shouldst
have sought only to be great, so would it never
have grieved thee to find thyself unbeloved.
The soul of the great should be as a river,
rejoicing in its
mighty course, and benefiting all
:
nor conscious of the fading garlands which
perishable hands may scatter upon its tide."
The corpse of Phylias was found that night
in the wood by some of the revellers returning
home. And the Persian king buried the body
in a gorgeous sepulchre, and the citizens of
Athens ordained a public mourning for his
death. And to the name of Phylias a thousand
bards promised immortality and, save in this
momentary record, the name of Phylias has
perished from the earth !
H 2
LAKE LEMAN,
AND ITS ASSOCIATIONS.
LAKE LEMAN,
AND ITS ASSOCIATIONS.
THERE are some places in the world, which
imaginative persons, who contract a sympathy
with Genius, feel it almost a duty to visit. Not
to perform such pilgrimages, seems a neglect of
one of the objects of life. The world has many
a Mecca and many a Medina for those who find
a prophet in Genius, and an holiness in its se-
pulchre. Of these none are more sacred than
" Leman with its crystal face."
The very name of that lovely lake is a poem in
itself. It conjures up the living and actual
shapes of those who have been greater than
152 LAKE LEMAN.
their kind. As the thought of Troy brings be-
fore us at once the bright Scamander the
heaven-defended towers the hum of the wide
Grecian camp with the lone tent of Achilles,
sullen at his loss and the last interview of
Hector and her to whom he was "
father, mo-
ther, brethren" so with the very name of
Leman rise up the rocks of Meillerie the
white walls of Chillon we see the boat of
Byron, with the storm breaking over Jura the
"covered acacia walk" in which, at the dead
of night, the Historian of Rome gazed upon the
waters after he had finished the last page of his
deathless work :
Voltaire, Rousseau, Calvin
beings who were revolutions in themselves are
summoned before us. Yes, Leman is an epic ;
poetical in itself, it associates its name with
the characters of poetry ; and all that is most
beautiful in nature is linked with all that is
most eloquent of genius.
The morning after my arrival at the inn,
which is placed (a little distance from Geneva,)
on the margin of the lake, I crossed to the
house which Byron inhabited, and which is al-
LAKE LEMAX. 153
most exactly opposite. The day was calm but
gloomy, the waters almost without a ripple.
Arrived at the opposite shore, you ascend, by a
somewhat rude and steep ascent, to a small
village, winding round which, you come upon
the gates of the house. On the right-hand side
of the road, as you thus enter, is a vineyard, in
which, at that time, the grapes hung ripe and
clustering. Within the gates are some three or
four trees, ranged in an avenue. Descending a
few steps, you see in a small court before the
door, a rude fountain; it was then dried up
the waters had ceased to play. On either side
is a small garden branching from the court,
and by the door are rough stone seats. You
enter a small hall, and, thence, an apartment
containing three rooms. The principal one is
charming, long, and of an oval shape, with
carved wainscoating the windows on three sides
of the room command the most beautiful views
of Geneva, the Lake, and its opposite shores.
They open upon a terrace paved with stone ;
on
that terrace how often he must have " watched
H 5
154 LAKE LEMAN.
with wistful eyes the setting sun !" It was here
that he was in the ripest maturity of his genius
in the most interesting epoch of his life. He
had passed the bridge that severed him from his
country, but the bridge was not yet broken
down. He had not yet been enervated by the
soft south. His luxuries were still of the intel-
lect his sensualism was yet of nature his
mind had not faded from its youthfulness and
vigour his was yet the season of hope rather
than of performance, and the world dreamt more
of what he would be than what he had been.
His works (the Paris edition) were on the
table. Himself was everywhere ! Near to this
room is a smaller cabinet, very simply and
rudely furnished. On one side, in a recess, is
a bed, on the other, a door communicates with
a dressing-room. Here, I was told, he was
chiefly accustomed to write. And what works ?
"
Manfred," and the most beautiful stanzas of
the third Canto of " Childe Harold," rush at
once upon our memory. You now ascend the
stairs, and pass a passage, at the end of which
LAKE LEMAN. 155
is a window, commanding a superb view of the
Lake. The passage is hung with some curious
but wretched portraits. Francis I., Diana of
Poitiers, and Julius Scaliger among the rest.
You now enter his bed-room. Nothing can be
more homely than the furniture ;
the bed is in a
recess, and in one corner an old walnut-tree
bureau, where you may still see written over
some of the compartments,
" Letters of Lady
B ." His imaginary life vanishes before this
simple label, and all the weariness, and all the
disappointment of his real domestic life come
sadly upon you. You recall the nine execu-
tions in one year the annoyance and the bick-
ering, and the estrangement, and the gossip
scandal of the world, and the " Broken House-
hold Gods." * Men may moralize as they will,
but misfortunes cause error, and atone for it.
I wished to see no other rooms but those oc-
" I was disposed to be pleased. I am a lover of
Nature and an admirer of beauty. I can bear fatigue,
and welcome privation, and have seen some of the
noblest views in the world. But in all this, the recol-
lection of bitterness, and more especially of recent and
156 LAKE LEMAN.
cupied by him. I did not stay to look at the
rest I passed into the small garden that fronts
the house here was another fountain which the
Nymph had not deserted. Over it drooped the
boughs of a willow ; beyond, undivided by any
barrier, spread a vineyard, whose verdant leaves
and laughing fruit, contrasted somewhat pain-
fully with the associations of the spot The
Great Mother is easily consoled for the loss of
the brightest of her children. The sky was more
in harmony .with the Genius Loci than the earth.
Its quiet and gloomy clouds were reflected upon
the unwrinkled stillness of the Lake; and afar,
its horizon rested, in a thousand mists, upon the
crests of the melancholy mountains.
The next day I was impatient to divert the
more home desolation which must accompany me through
lifejhas preyed upon me here ; and neither the music
ot'lR.1
shepherd, the crashing of the avalanche, nor the
torrent, the mountain, the glacier, the forest, nor the
cloud, have for one moment lightened the weight upon
my heart, nor enabled me to lose my own wretched
identity in the majesty, and the power, and the glory,
around, above, and beneath me." Byron's Journal of
his Swiss Tour.
LAKE LEMAN. 157
feelings which the view of Byron's villa from the
garden of my lodgment occasioned, and I re-
paired on a less interesting pilgrimage, though
to a yet more popular, and perhaps imperishable
shrine. What Byron was for a season, Voltaire
was for half a century : a power in himself
the cynosure of civilization the dictator of the
Intellectual Republic. He was one of the few
in whom thought has produced the same results
as action. Next to the great Reformers of Reli-
gion, who has exercised a similar influence over
the minds of men and the destinies of nations ?
Not indeed according to .the vulgar sentiment
that attributes to him and to his colleagues the
causes of Revolution: the causes existed if no
philosopher had ever lived ;
but he ripened and
concentrated the effects. Whether for good or
ill, time must yet show this only can we savy
-flnl
that the evil that has resulted was not of Philo-
sophy, but of Passion. They who prove a dis-
ease exists, are not to be blamed if, after their
decease, wrong remedies are applied. The
misfortune of human affairs is, that Sages point
158 LAKE LEMAN.
out the rottenness of an old system but it is
quacks that build up the new. We employ the
most scientific surveyors to estimate dilapida-
tions, and the most ignorant masons to repair
them. This is not the fault of the surveyor.
" Les partisans de la liberte sont ceux qui de-
testent le plus profondement les forfaits qui se
sont commis en son nom."*
The drive from Geneva to Ferney is
pictu-
resque and well cultivated enough to make us
doubt the accuracy of the descriptions which
proclaim the country round Ferney to have been
a desert prior to the settlement of Voltaire.
You approach the house by an avenue. To the
left is the well known church which " Voltaire
erected to God." ("Deo erexit Voltaire.") It is
the mode among tourists to wonder at this piety
and to call it inconsistent with the tenets of its
founder. But tourists are seldom profound in-
quirers. Any one, the least acquainted with
Voltaire's writings, would know how little he
was of an Atheist He was too clever for such
a belief. He is one of the strongest arguers
*
Influence des Passions.
LAKE LEMAN. 159
Philosophy possesses in favour of the existence
of the Supreme Being; and much as he ridi-
cules fanatics, they are well off from his satire,
when compared with the Atheists. His zeal,
indeed, for the Divine existence sometimes car-
ries him beyond his judgment, as in that Ro-
mance, where Dr. Friend (Doctor of Divinity,
and Member of Parliament!} converts his son
Jenni, (what names these Frenchmen do give
us !)
and Jenni's friend Birton, in a dispute be-
fore a circle of savages. Dr. Friend overthrows
the sturdy atheist with too obvious an ease. In
fact, Voltaire was impatient of an argument
against which he invariably declared the evi-
dence of all our senses was opposed. He was
intolerance itself to a reasoner against the evi-
dence of Reason. I must be pardoned for doing
Voltaire this justice I do not wish to leave
Atheism so brilliant an authority.
Opposite to the church, and detached from
the house, was once the theatre, now pulled
down a thick copse is planted on the site. I
should like, I own, to have seen, even while I
160 LAKE LEMAN.
defend Voltaire's beliefj whether "Mahomet"
or " Le Bon Dieu" were the better lodged !
The house is now before you long, regular,
and tolerably handsome, when compared with
the usual character of French or of Swiss archi-
tecture. It has been described so often, that I
would not go over the same ground if it did not
possess an interest which no repetition can wear
away. Besides, it helps to illustrate the cha-
racter of the owner. A man's house is often a
witness of himself.
The salle de reception is a small room,
the furniture unaltered the same needle-
work chairs in cabriole frames of oak the same
red flowered velvet on the walls. The utter
apathy of the great Author to the Beautiful is
manifest in the wretched daubs on the walls,
which would have put an English poet into a
nervous fever to have seen every time he looked
round and a huge stove, magnificently trum-
pery, of barbarous shape, and profusely gilt,
which was " his own invention!" It sup-
ports his bust. In this room is the celebrated
LAKE LEMAN. 161
picture of which tradition says that he gave
the design. Herein Voltaire is depicted as pre-
senting the " Henriade" to Apollo, while his
enemies are sinking into the infernal regions, and
Envy is
expiring at his feet ! A singular proof
of the modesty of merit, and of its toleration !
So there is a hell then for disbelievers in Vol-
taire ! But we must not take such a design in
a literal spirit. Voltaire was a conceited man,
but he was also a consummate man of the world.
We may depend upon it that he laughed himself
at the whole thing as much as any one else.
We may depend upon it that when the old gen-
tleman, tapping his snuff-box, showed it to his
visitors, with that visage of unutterable mockery,
he said as pleasant a witticism on the subject as
the wittiest of us could invent. How merry he
must have been when he pointed out the face of
each particular foe ! How gaily he must have
jested on their damnatory condition ! In fact,
it was one of those boyish ebullitions of carica-
ture which are too extravagant for malice, and
which, to the last, were peculiar to the great
162 LAKE LEMAN.
animal vivacity of Voltaire. It was a hearty
joke into which he plunged himself for the sake
of dragging his enemies. Voltaire knew the
force of ridicule too well, to mean to make him-
self, as the stupid starers suppose, gravely
ridiculous.
The bed-room joins the salon ;
it contains
portraits of Frederic the Great, Mad. Du Cha-
telet, and himself! The two last have appeared
in the edition of his works by Beaumarchais.
You see here the vase in which his heart was
placed, with the sentiment of " Mon esprit est
partout Mon cceur est id." "As I think,"
said my companion, more wittily than justly, (as
I shall presently show,) "that his esprit was
better than his cceur, I doubt whether the pre-
ference given to Ferney was worth the having."
Le Kain's portrait hangs over his bed. Voltaire
was the man to appreciate an actor : he himself
was the Shakspeare of artifice. One circum-
stance proves his indifference to natural objects.
The first thing a lover of nature would have
thought of in such a spot, would have been to
LAKE LEMAN. 163
open the windows of his favourite rooms upon the
most beautiful parts of that enchanting scenery.
But Voltaire's windows are all carefully turned
the other way ! You do not behold from them
either the glorious Lake, or the haughty Alps,
which (for they are visible immediately on en-
tering the garden) might so easily have been
effected. But the Lake and the Alps were not
things Voltaire ever thought it
necessary either
to describe or study. Living in the country he
was essentially the poet of cities. And even
his profound investigation of men was of artificial
men. Men's tastes, their errors, and their foibles,
not their hearts and their passions. If men had
neither profound emotions, nor subtle and in-
tense imaginations, Voltaire would have been the
greatest painter of mankind that ever existed.
You leave the house then you descend a
few steps :
opposite to you is a narrow road,
with an avenue of poplars. You enter into a
green, over-arching alley, which would be com-
pletely closed in by the thick-set hedge on
either side, if here and there little mimic win-
164 LAKE LEMAN.
dows had not been cut through the boughs;
through these windows you may take an occa-
sional peep at the majestic scenery beyond. That
was the way Voltaire liked to look at Nature,
through little windows in an artificial hedge !
And without the hedge, the landscape would
have been so glorious ! This was Voltaire's
favourite morning walk. At the end is a bench,
upon which the great man, (and with all his
deficiencies, when will France produce his
equal ?) was wont to sit, and think. I see him
now, in his crimson and gold-laced coat his
stockings drawn half-way up the thigh his chin
resting on his long cane that eye, light (he is
misrepresented sometimes as having dark eyes)
and piercing, fixed, not on the ground, nor up-
ward, but on the space before him; thus does
the old gardener, who remembers, pretend to
describe hkn : I see him meditating his last
journey to Paris, that most glorious consum-
mation of a life of literary triumph which has
ever been afforded to a literary man that death
which came from the poison of his own laurels.
LAKE LEMAN. 165
Never did Fame illumine so intensely the passage
to the grave; but the same torch that flashed
upon the triumph, lighted the pyre. It was
like the last scene of some gorgeous melo-
drame and the very effect which most dazzled
the audience was the signal to drop the curtain !
The old gardener, who is above a hundred,
declares that he has the most perfect recollec-
tion of the person of Voltaire; I taxed it
severely. I was surprised to hear that even in
age, and despite the habit of stooping, he was
considerably above the middle height But the
gardener dwelt with greater pleasure on his
dress than his person ;
he was very proud of the
full wig and the laced waistcoat, still prouder
of the gilt coach and the four long-tailed horses.
Voltaire loved parade there was nothing simple
about his tastes. It was not indeed the age of
simplicity.
Amidst a gravel space, is a long slip of turf,
untouched since it was laid down by Voltaire
himself, and not far from hence is the tree he
planted, fair, tall, and flourishing; at the time
166 LAKE LEMAN.
I saw it, the sun was playing cheerily through
its delicate leaves. From none of his works
is the freshness so little faded. My visit to
Byron's house of the day before, my visit now
to Ferney, naturally brought the habitants of
each, in contrast and comparison. In the perse-
cution each had undergone, in the absorbing per-
sonal power which each had obtained, there was
something similar. But Byron attached himself
to the heart, and Voltaire to the intellect. Per-
haps if
Byron had lived to old age and followed
out the impulses of Don Juan, he would have
gradually drawn the comparison closer. And, in-
deed, he had more in common with Voltaire than
with Rousseau, to whom he has been likened.
He was above the effeminacy and the falseness
of Rousseau; and he had the strong sense, and
the stern mockery, and the earnest bitterness
of Voltaire. Both Byron and Voltaire wanted
a true mastery over the passions; for Byron
does not paint nor arouse passion ;* he paints
*
Byron has been called by superficial critics, the
Poet of Passion, but it is not true. To paint passion,
LAKE LEMAN. 167
and he arouses sentiment. But in Byron senti-
ment itself had almost the strength and all the
intensity of passion. He kindled thoughts into
feelings. Voltaire had no sentiment in his
writings, though not, perhaps, devoid of it in him-
self. Indeed he could not have been generous
as I have elsewhere said, you must paint the struggle
of passion ; and this Byron (out of his plays at least)
never does. There is no delineation of passion in the
love of Medora, nor even of Gulnare ; but the sentiment
in each is made as powerful as passion itself. Every
where, in Childe Harold, in Don Juan, in the Eastern
Tales, Byron paints sentiments, not passions. When
Macbeth soliloquizes on his "
wdy of life," he utters a
sentiment; when he pauses before he murders his King
he bares to us his passions. Othello, torn by that
jealousy which is half love and half hatred, is a por-
traiture of passion : Childe Harold moralizing over
Rome, is one of sentiment. The Poets of Passion paint
various and contending emotions, each warring with
the other. The Poets of Sentiment paint the pre-
valence of one particular cast of thought, or affection
of the mind. But the crowd are too apt to confuse
the two, and to call an author a passionate writer if
his hero always says he is passionately in love. Few
persons would allow that Clarissa and Clementina are
finer delineations of passion than Julia and Haidee.
168 LAKE LEMAN.
with so much delicacy, if he had not possessed
a finer and a softer spirit than his works display.
Still less could he have had that singular love
for the unfortunate, that courageous compassion
x
for the opprest, which so prominently illustrate
his later life. No one could with less justice be
called " heartless
"
than Voltaire. He was re-
markably tenacious of all early friendships, and
loved as strongly as he disdained deeply. Any
tale of distress imposed upon him easily; he
was the creature of impulse, and half a child to
the last He had a stronger feeling for Huma-
nity than any of his cotemporaries : he wept
when he saw Turgot, and it was in sobs that he
stammered out,
" Laissez-moi baiser cette main
qui a signe le salut du peuple." Had Voltaire
never written a line, he would have come down
to posterity as a practical philanthropist. A vil-
lage of fifty peasant inhabitants, was changed by
him into the home of one thousand two hundred
manufacturers. His character at Ferney is still
that of the father of the poor. As a man, he
was vain, self-confident, wayward, irascible;
LAKE LEMAN. 169
kind-hearted, generous, and easily moved. He
had nothing of the Mephistophiles. His fault
was, that he was too human that is, too weak
and too unsteady. We must remember, that in
opposing religious opinion, he was opposing the
opinion of monks and Jesuits ;
and Fanaticism
discontented him with Christianity. Observe
the difference with which he speaks of the Pro-
testant faith with what gravity and respect.
Had he been born hi England, I doubt if Vol-
taire had ever attacked Christianity had he
been born two centuries before, I doubt whether
his spirit of research, and his daring courage,
would not have made him the reformer of the
church and not its antagonist. It may be the
difference of time and place that makes all the
difference between a Luther and a Voltaire.
As an Author, we are told that he has done
many things well, none pre-eminently well a
most absurd and groundless proposition. He
has written pre-eminently well ! He is the
greatest prose writer, beyond all
comparison,
that his country has produced. You may as well
VOL. I. I
170 LAKE LEMAN.
say Swift has done nothing pre-eminently well,
because he is neither so profound as Bacon, nor
so poetical as Milton. Voltaire is Swift en grand.
Swift resembles him, but ten thousand Swifts
would not make a Voltaire. France may affect
to undervalue the most French of her writers
France may fancy she is serving the true
national genius by plagiarising from German
horrors neglecting the profundity of German
genius ; but with only isolated exceptions, all
that of later times she has produced truly na-
tional and promising duration, is reflected and
furnished forth from the peculiar qualities of
Voltaire; the political writings of Paul Cou-
rier, the poetry of Beranger, the novels of
Paul de Kock. Her Romanticists are to her,
what the Delia Cruscans were to us :
only they
have this advantage they would be immoral if
they could. They have all the viciousness of
the eunuch, but happily, they have his impotence
also.
But this digression leads me to one whom I
must except from so general a censure. From
LAKE LEMAN. 171
Ferney I went to Coppet: from the least I
diverted my thoughts to the most sentimental
of writers. Voltaire is the moral antipodes to
De Stael. The road to Coppet from Ferney is
pretty but monotonous. You approach the
house by a field or paddock, which reminds
you of England. To the left, in a thick
copse, is the tomb of Madame de Stael. As
I saw it, how many of her eloquent thoughts
on the weariness of life rushed to my me-
mory ! No one perhaps ever felt more pal-
pably the stirrings of the soul within, than her
whose dust lay there.
^Few had ever longed
more intensely for the wings to flee away and
be at rest. She wanted precisely that which
Voltaire had common sense. She had pre-
cisely that which Voltaire wanted sentiment.
Of the last it was well said, that he had the
talent which the greater number of persons pos-
sessed in the greatest degree. Madame de
Stael had the talent which few possess, but not
in the greatest degree. For her thoughts are
uncommon, but not profound ;
and her imagina-
i 2
172 LAKE LEMAN.
tion is destitute of invention. No work so ima-
ginative as the " Corinne" was ever so little in-
ventive.
And now the house is before you. Opposite
the entrance, iron gates admit a glimpse of
grounds laid out in the English fashion. The
library opens at once from the hall; a long
and handsome room containing a statue of
Necker : the forehead of the minister is low and
the face has in it more of bonhommie than
esprit. In fact, that very respectable man was
a little too dull for his position. The windows
look out on a grayjel-walk or terrace; the
library communicates with a bedroom hung with
old tapestry.
In the salle a manger on the first floor, is a
bust of A. W. Schlegel and a print of Lafayette.
Out of the billiard-room, the largest room of
the suite, is the room where Madame de
Stael usually slept, and frequently wrote,
though the good woman who did the honours ;
declared,
" she wrote in all the rooms." Her
writing indeed was but an episode from her con-
LAKE LEMAN. 173
versation. Least of all persons, was Madame
de Stael one person as a writer, and another as
a woman. Her whole character was in har-
mony ;
her thoughts always overflowed and were
always restless. She assumed nothing facti-
tious when she wrote. She wrote as she would
have spoken.* Such authors are rare. On the
other side of the billiard-room, is a small salon
in which there is a fine bust of Necker, a picture
of Baron de Stael, and one of herself in a turban.
Every one knows that countenance full of
power, if not of beauty, with its deep dark eyes.
* Madame de Stael wrofe " a la volte." " Even in
her most inspired compositions/' says Madame Necker
de Saussure,
" she had pleasure to be interrupted by
those she loved." There are some persons whose
whole life is inspiration. Madame de Stael was one
of these. She was not of that tribe who labour to be
inspired, who darken the room and lock -the door, and
entreat you not to disturb them. It was a part of her
character to care little about her works once printed.
They had done their office, they had relieved her mind,
and the mind had passed onward to new ideas. For
my own part, I have no patience with authors who
are always invoking the ghosts of their past thoughts.
174 LAKE LEMAN.
Here is still shown her writing-book and ink-
stand. Thoughout the whole house is an air of
English comfort and quiet opulence. The fur-
niture is
plain and simple nothing over-
powers the charm of the place ;
and no undue
magnificence diverts you from the main thought
of the genius to which it is consecrated. The
grounds are natural, but not remarkable. A
very narrow but fresh streamlet borders them to
the right I was much pleased by the polished
nature of a notice to the people not to commit
depredations. The proprietor put his "
grounds
under the protection
"
of the visitors he ad-
mitted. This is in the true spirit of aristocratic
breeding.
It is impossible to quit this place without
feeling that it
bequeaths a gentle and im-
mortal recollection. Madame de Stael was the
male Rousseau ! She had all his enthusiasm
and none of his meanness. In the eloquence of
diction she would have surpassed him, if she
had not been too eloquent. But she perfumes
her violets and rouges her roses. Yet her heart
LAKE LEMAN. 175
was womanly, while her intellect was mascu-
line, and the heart dictated while the intellect
adorned. She could not have reasoned, if
you
had silenced in her the affections. The charm
and the error of her writings have the same
cause. She took for convictions what were but
feelings. She built up a philosophy in emotion.
Few persons felt more deeply the melancholy
of life. It was enough to sadden that yearning
heart the thought so often on her lips,
" Jamais
je n'ai etc aimee comme j'aime." But, on
the other hand, her susceptibility consoled while
it wounded her. Like all poets, she had a pro-
found sense of the common luxury of being.
She felt the truth that the pleasures are greater
than the pains of life, and was pleased with the
sentiment of Home Tooke when he said to
Erskine,
" If you had but obtained for me ten
years of life in a dungeon with my books, and a
pen and ink, I should have thanked you." None
but the sensitive feel what a glorious possession
existence is. The religion which was a part of
her very nature, contributed to render to this
176 LAKE LEMAN.
existence a diviner charm. How tender and how
characteristic that thought of hers, that if
any
happiness chanced to her after her father's
death,
" it was to his mediation she owed it :" as
if he were living ! To her he was living in
heaven ! Peace to her beautiful memory ! Her
genius is without a rival in her own sex ; and if
it be ever exceeded, it must be by one more
or less than woman.
The drive homeward from Coppet to Geneva is
far more picturesque, than that from Ferney to
Ceppet. As you approach Geneva, villa upon villa
rises cheerfully on the landscape ;
and you feel a
certain thrill as you pass the house inhabited by
Marie Louise after the fall of Napoleon. These
excursions in the neighbourhood of Geneva,
spread to a wider circle the associations of the
Lake ; they are of Leman. And if the exiles
of the earth resort to that serene vicinity, hers
is the smile that wins them. She received the
persecuted and the weary they repaid the be-
nefit in glory.
It was a warm, clear, and sunny day, on
LAKE LEMAN. 177
which I commenced the voyage of the Lake.
Looking behind, I gazed on the roofs and spires
of Geneva, and forgot the Present in the Past.
What to me was its little community of watch-
makers, and its little colony of English? I saw
Charles of Savoy at its gates I heard the voice
of Berthelier invoking Liberty, and summoning
to arms. The struggle past the scaffold rose
and the patriot became the martyr. His
blood was not spilt in vain. Religion became
the resurrection of Freedom. The town is silent
it is under excommunication. Suddenly a
murmur is heard it rises it gathers the
people are awake they sweep the streets the
images are broken : Farel is preaching to the
council ! Yet a little while, and the stern soul
of Calvin is at work within those walls. The
loftiest of the Reformers, and the one whose in-
fluence has been the most wide and lasting, is
the earliest also of the great tribe of the perse-
cuted the City of the Lake receives within her
arms. The benefits he repaid behold them
around ! Wherever property is secure, wherever
i 5
178 LAKE LEMAN.
thought is free, wherever the ancient learning
is revived, wherever the ancient spirit has been
caught, you trace the work of the Reformation,
and the inflexible, inquisitive, unconquerable
soul of Calvin ! He foresaw not, it is true, nor
designed, the effects he has produced. The
same sternness of purpose, the same rigidity of
conscience that led him to reform, urged him to
persecute. The exile of Bolsec, and the mar-
tyrdom of Servede, rest darkly upon his name.
But the blessings we owe to the first inquirers
compensate their errors. Had Calvin not lived,
there would have been not one, but a thousand,
Servedes ! The spirit of inquiry redeems it-
self as it progresses ; once loosed, it will not
stop at the limit to which its early disciples
would restrain it. Born with them, it does not
grow with their growth, it survives their death
it but commences where they conclude. In
one century, the flames are for the person, in
another for the work ;
in the third, work and
person are alike sacred. The same town that
condemned Le Contrat social to the conflagra-
LAKE LEMAN. 179
tion, makes now its chief glory in the memory
of Rousseau.
I turned from Geneva, and the villa of
Byron, and the scarce-seen cottage of Shelley
glided by. Of all landscape scenery, that of
lakes pleases me the most. It has the move-
ment without the monotony of the ocean. But
in point of scenic attraction, I cannot compare
Leman with Como or the Lago Maggiore. If
ever, as I hope my age may, it is mine to " find
out the peaceful hermitage," it shall be amidst
the pines of Como, with its waves of liquid sun-
shine, and its endless variety of shade and colour,
as near to the scenes and waterfalls of Pliny's
delicious fountain, as I can buy or build a tene-
ment. There is not enough of glory in the
Swiss climate. It does not bring that sense of
existence that passive luxury of enjoyment
that paradise of the air and sun, which belong to
Italy.
The banks of Leman, as seen from the
middle of the water, lose much of their effect
from the exceeding breadth of the lake; and
180 LAKE LEMAN.
the distance of the Alps beyond, detracts from
their height. Nearness is necessary to the
sublime. A narrow stream, with Mont Blanc
alone towering by its side, would be the grandest
spectacle in the world. But the oppression,
the awe, and the undefinable sense of danger
which belong to the sublime in natural objects,
are lost when the objects are removed from our
immediate vicinity. The very influence of the
landscape around Leman renders it rather mag-
nificent than grand. There is
something of
sameness too in the greater part of the voyage,
unless you wind near the coast. The banks
themselves often vary, but the eternal mountains
in the background invest the whole with one
common character. But to see the Lake to the
greatest advantage, avoid, oh, avoid the steam-
vessel and creep close by either shore. Beyond
Ouchy and Lausanne, the scenery improves in
richness and effect. As the walls of the latter
slowly receded from me, the sky itself scarcely
equalled the stillness of the water. It lay deep
and silent as death, the dark rocks crested with
LAKE LEMAN. 181
cloud, flinging long and far shadows over the
surface. Gazing on Lausanne, I recalled the
words of Gibbon ; I had not read the passage
for years ;
I could not have quoted a syllable
of it the day before, and now it rushed upon my
mind so accurately, that I found little but the
dates to alter, when I compared my recollection
with the page.
" It was," said he,
" on the day
or rather the night of the 27th of June, 1787,
between the hours of eleven and twelve, that I
wrote.the last line of the last page in a summer-
house in my garden. After laying down my
pen, I took several turns in a berceau, or covered
walk of acacias, which commands a prospect of
the country, the lake, and the mountains. The
air was temperate, the sky was serene, the silver
orb of the moon was reflected from the waves,
and all nature was silent." What a picture !
Who does not enter into what must have been
the feelings of a man who had just completed
the work that was to render him immortal ?
What calm fulness of triumph, of a confidence
too stately for vanity, does the description
182 LAKE LEMAN.
breathe ! I know not which has the more
poetry, the conception of the work or the con-
clusion the conception amidst the " ruins of
the Capitol, while the bareheaded friars were
singing vespers in .the Temple of Jupiter," or the
conclusion at the stillness and solitude of night,
amidst the Helvetian Alps. With what tranquil
collectedness of thought, he seems to bask and
luxuriate as it were in the sentiment of his own
glory ! At such a moment did Gibbon feel that
his soul which produced the glory, was no less
imperishable. For my own part, / should have
felt that my soul was diviner than my genius ;
the genius is but an effort of the soul, and the
artificer is greater than the work. The triumphs
we achieve, our conquests of the domain of
Time, can but feebly flatter our self-esteem,
unless we regard them as the proofs of what
we are. For who would submit to deem himself
the blind Nursery of Thoughts, to be grafted on
other soils, when the clay which nurtured them
has crumbled to unproductive atoms? To con-
sider what Shakspeare thought, while on earth,
LAKE LEMAN. 183
is a noble contemplation, but it is nobler yet to
conjecture what, now, may be the musings, and
what the aspirations, of that spirit exalted to a
sublimer career of being. It were the wildest
madness of human vanity to imagine that God
created such spirits only for the earth: like
the stars, they shine upon us, but their uses
and their destinies are not limited to be the
lamps of this atom of creation. So vast a waste
of spirit were, indeed, a monstrous prodigality,
wholly alien to the economy and system of the
Universe !
But new objects rise to demand the thought.
Opposite are the heights of Meillerie ;
seen
from the water, they present little to distinguish
them from the neighbouring rocks. The village
lies scattered at the base, with the single spire
rising above the roofs. I made the boatmen
row towards the shore, and landed somewhere
about the old and rugged town or village of
Evian. Walking thence to Meillerie along the
banks of the lake, nothing could be richer than
the scene around. The sun was slowly sink-
184 LAKE LEMAN.
ing, the waters majestically calm, and a long
row of walnut trees fringed the margin ; above,
the shore slopes upward, covered with verdure.
Proceeding onward, the ascent is yet more
thickly wooded, until the steep and almost per-
pendicular heights of Meillerie rise before you
here grey and barren, there clothed with tangled
and fantastic busjies. At a little distance you
may see the village with the sharp spiral steeple
rising sharp against the mountain ;
and winding
farther, you may survey on the opposite shore,
the immortal Clarens :
and, whitely gleaming
over the water, the walls of Chillon. As I paus-
ed, the waters languidly rippled at my feet, and
one long rose-cloud, the immortalized and conse-
crated hues of Meillerie transferred from their
proper home, faded lingeringly from the steeps
of Jura. I confess myself, in some respects, to
be rather of Scott's than Byron's opinion on the
merits of the Heloise. Julie and St. Preux are
to me, as to Scott,
" two tiresome pedants." But
they are eloquent pedants ! The charm of Rous-
seau is not in the characters he draws, but in
LAKE LEMAN. 185
the sentiments he attributes to them. I lose the
individuality of the characters I forget, I dis-
miss them. I take the sentiments, and find
characters of my own more worthy of them.
Meillerie is not to me consecrated by Julie, but
by ideal love. It is the Julie of one's own heart,
the visions of one's own youth, that one invokes
and conjures up in scenes wb^ich no criticism,
no reasoning, can divorce from the associations
of love. We think not of the idealist, but the
ideal. Rousseau intoxicates us with his own
egotism. We are wrapt in ourselves in our
own creations, and not his; so at least it was
with me. When shall I forget that twilight by
the shores of Meillerie or that starlit wave that
bore me back to the opposite shore ? The wind
breathing low from Clarens Chillon sleeping
in the distance, and all the thoughts and dreams
and unuttered, unutterable memories of the
youth and passion for ever gone, busy in my
souL The place was full, not of Rousseau, but
that which had inspired him hallowed not by
the Priest but, by the God.
186 LAKE LEMAN.
I have not very distinctly marked the time in
which the voyage I describe was broken up;
but when next I resumed my excursion it was
late at noon.
I had seen at Vevay, Ludlow the regicide's
tomb. A stern contrast to the Bosquets (now,
alas !
potato-grounds )
of Julie. And now,
from the water, the old town of Vevay seemed
to me to have something in its aspect grateful
to the grim shade of the King-slayer. Yet even
that memory has associations worthy of the ten-
derness of feeling which invests the place ; and
one of the most beautiful instances of woman's
affection, is the faithful valour with which his
wife shared the dangers and vicissitudes of the
republican's chequered life. His monument is
built by her. And, though in a time when all
the nice distinctions of justice on either side
were swept away, the zeal of Ludlow wrote it-
self in blood that it had been more just to
spare, the whole annals of that mighty war can-
not furnish a more self-contemning, unpurchase-
able, and honest heart His ashes are not the
least valuable relics of the shores of Leman.
LAKE LEMAN. 187
Again; as you wind a jutting projection of
the land, Clarens rises upon you, chiefly notice-
able from its look of serene and entire repose.
You see the house which Byron inhabited for
some little time, and which has nothing remark-
able in its appearance. This, perhaps, is the
most striking part of the voyage. Dark shadows
from the Alps, at the right, fell over the wave,
but to the left, towards Clarens, all was bright
and sunny, and beautifully still.
Looking back,
the lake was one sheet of molten gold wide
and vast it
slept in its glory ;
the shore on the
right indistinct from its
very brightness that to
the left, marked and stern from its very shadow.
Chillon, which is long, white, and, till
closely
approached, more like a modern than an ancient
building, is backed by mountains covered with
verdure. You survey now the end of the lake ;
a long ridge of the greenest foliage, from amidst
which the frequent poplar rises, tall and pictu-
resque, the spire of the grove. And, now, near-
ing Villeneuve, you sail by the little isle hal-
lowed by Byron-
188 LAKE LEMAN.
" A little isle,
Which in my very face did smile,
The only one in view,
A small green isle, it seemed no more,
Scarce broader than my dungeon floor,
But in it there were three tall trees," &c.*
The trees were still there, young and flourish-
ing; by their side a solitary shed. Villeneuve
itself, backed by mountains, has a venerable air,
as if vindicating the antiquity it boasts.
I landed with regret, even though the pil-
grimage to Chillon was before me. And still I
lingered by the wave and still gazed along its
soft expanse. Perhaps, in the vanity common
to so many, who possess themselves in thought
of a shadowy and unreal future, I may have
dreamt, as I paused and gazed, that from among
the lesser names which Leman retains and
blends with those more lofty and august, she
may not disdainfully reject that of one who felt
at least the devotion of the pilgrim, if he caught
not an inspiration from the shrine.
*
Prisoner of Chillon, line 341.
THE
TKUE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
A MORAL TALE FOR MARRIED PEOPLE.
THE TRUE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
A MORAL TALE FOR MARRIED PEOPLE.
NEVER were two persons more passionately
attached to each other than Adolphe and Celeste !
Their love was a proverb. Of course it was an
unhappy attachment no body loves heartily,
unless people -take pains to prevent it. The
spirit of contradiction is prodigiously strong in
its effects.
Adolphe was rich and noble Celeste was
noble and poor. Their families were at vari-
ance; the family of Adolphe was exceedingly
192 THE TRUE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
ambitious, and that of Celeste exceedingly proud.
Had they been the best friends in the world,
their fathers would not have assented to the
loves of their children Adolphe's father be-
cause he desired a rich match for his son
Celeste's because he was too proud to be under
an obligation, and he was sufficiently a man of
the world to know that you are to be considered
obliged when a rich nobleman marries your
daughter without a dowry. Celeste's father
would have married her to a wealthy parvenu
that he might have borrowed his money, in
parading his condescension. For it is a maxim
in good society, that no favour can be conferred
by a roturier. Gratitude is for him to feel, if
you accept his services. No sooner therefore
was the dawning attachment of the lovers dis-
covered, than their relations thought it necessary
to be amazingly angry. There cannot be a
doubt that you have an absolute right to the
eyes, nerves, and hearts of your children. They
have no business to be happy, unless it be ex-
actly in the way most agreeable to yourseli
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 193
These self-evident truths were not, however,
irresistible for Adolphe and Celeste. Although
the latter was locked up, and the former was
watched; they continued often to correspond,
and sometimes to see each other. Their love
was no passing caprice despite all difficulties,
all obstacles, all dangers it was more intense
than ever at the end of a year. Celeste had
gallantly refused two young merchants, hand-
some and ardent, and a very old banker, who
would have left her a widow in a year. Adolphe
the gay and handsome Adolphe had re-
nounced every flirtation and. conquest ; all wo-
men had palled in his eyes since he had seen
Celeste. But though their passion was strength-
ened by time, time had failed to increase their
hopes of its success they began to doubt and
to despair. The rose fled from Celeste's cheek
she pined away, her lip had lost all its smile,
her form shrunk from all its roundness, tears
stood constantly in her eyes, and she sighed so
that it went to the hearts of all the servants in
the house. In fine, she fell ill, poor girl, she
VOL. I. K
194 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
was dying for love. The more violent passion of
Adolphe produced also its disorder. His pulse
burnt with fever, his language was often inco-
herent his great grandfather had been mad
Adolphe promised fairly to take after his an-
cestor.
Alarmed, but not softened, the father of our
lover spoke to him earnestly.
" Renounce but
this ill-placed love if only for a time. Idle-
ness is the parent of this youthful folly. I will
devote half my fortune to purchase you that
situation at court you have so often thought the
height of your ambition. My son, you are
young, bold, and aspiring ; your fortunes, your
fame will be secured. I willingly make you this
sacrifice, provided you abandon Celeste."
Adolphe wrung the hand of his father. " Im-
possible !" he murmured,
" one look from her
is worth all the dreams of ambition." So saying,
he left the room.
At length, finding they could riot live to-
gether, our lovers formed the desperate design
not to live divided ; (it is a favourite alterna-
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 195
live in the country in which they were born,)
in short, they resolved upon suicide. I wish I
had been able to obtain the letters which passed
between them on this melancholy subject I
never read any so simple and so touching ;
if
you had seen them you would have thought it
the plainest proposition in the world that per-
sons, with any real affection for each other,
ought never to be unprovided with prussic acid :
who knows but what an accident may separate
them of a sudden ; and to be separate ! how
much pleasanter to be dead !
The lovers agreed, then, to poison themselves
on the same night. Their last letters were writ-
ten, blistered with each other's tears. It was
eleven o'clock. Adolphe had retired to his cham-
ber he took up the poison he looked at it wist-
fully.
"
To-morrow," said he, musingly
" to-
morrow" and he extracted the cork " to-mor-
row it smells very disagreeably to-morrow I
shall be at rest This heart" he shook the phial
" how it froths ! this heart will have ceased to
beat and our cruel parents will not forbid us a
K2
196 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
common grave." So saying, he sighed heavily,
and muttering the name of Celeste, gulped down
the fatal draught.
Meanwhile, the father and mother of Adolphe
were still at supper. The old butler, who had
wiped his eyes when Adolphe had left the room,
fidgeted to and fro, with the air of a man who
has something at his heart. As his master was
very hungry, and his mistress very sleepy the
good old man was heeded by neither. At
length, when the other attendants had with-
drawn, the old man lingered behind thrice he
re-set the glasses and thrice he re-arranged
the decanters.
" That is
quite right that will do shut the
door after you."
" Sir yes, Sir. Did you hem."
"Did I what?"
"
My young master, Sir yes, Sir."
" Your young master. Well"
" Alas ! Sir, I fear he is not quite right
Did you observe how he looked when he left
the room?"
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 197
" Ma foi . I was engaged with the chicken."
" And you, Madam he kissed your hand
very affectionately."
"
Ah, yes, (drowsily,) he has an excellent
heart, le cher enfant /"
"
And, Madam, I don't like to say any thing
but but my young master has been muttering
very odd things to himself for the last two or
three days, and all this morning he has been
poisoning the dogs by way, he said, of experi-
ment"
" Poison !" said the mother, thoroughly awa-
kened "has he got any poison?"
"
Ah, yes, Madam his pockets full."
" Heavens !
"
cried the father,
" this must
not be if he should in despair he is a very
odd boy. His great-grandfather died mad. I
will instantly go to his room."
" And I too," cried the mother.
The good couple hurried to Adolphe's cham-
ber; they heard a groan as they opened the
door; they found their son stretched on the
bed, pale and haggard; on the table was a
phial, labelled '
poison ;' the phial was empty.
198 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
"
My son, my son !
you have not been so
wicked you have not speak speak !"
"Oh! I suffer tortures! Oh! oh! I am
dying. Leave me ! Celeste also has taken
poison we could not live together Cruel
parents we mock you, and die !"
" Recover recover, my son, and Celeste
shall be yours," said the mother, half in hys-
terics.
The father was already gone for a surgeon.
The surgeon lived near to Celeste, and while
he was hastily preparing his antidotes, his
visitor had the charity to run to the house
of Celeste's father, and hastily apprize him of
the intelligence he had learnt. The poor old
gentleman hobbled off to his daughter's room.
Luckily he found his wife with her ; she had
been giving the petite good advice, and that is
a very prolix habit. Celeste was impatiently
awaiting her departure; she was dying to be
dead! In rushed her father "Child, child
here's news indeed ! Are you alive, Celeste
have you poisoned yourself? That young
reprobate is already
"
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 199
"
Already!" cried Celeste, clasping her hands
"
Already ! he awaits me, then. Ah, this
appointment at least I will not break !" She
sprang to her bedside, and seized a phial from
under the pillow ; but the father was in time
he snatched it from her hand, and his daughter
fell into fits so violent, that they threatened to
be no less fatal than the poison.
200
CHAPTER II.
WHATEVER the exaggerations of our lovers, they
loved really, fervently, disinterestedly, and with
all their hearts. Not one in ten thousand loves
is so strong, or promises to be so lasting.
Adolphe did not die the antidotes were
given in time he recovered. The illness of
Celeste was more dangerous she suffered, poor
child, a delirious fever, and was several weeks
before her life and reason were restored.
No parents could stand all this ; ordinary ca-
prices it is very well to resist, but when young
people take to poison and delirious fevers
il faut ceder. Besides, such events derange
one's establishment and interrupt one's comforts.
One is always glad to come to terms when one
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. '201
begins to be annoyed oneself. The old people
then made it up, and the young people married.
As the Bridegroom and Celeste were convinced
that the sole object of life was each other's com-
pany, they hastened at once to the sweet soli-
tudes of the country. They had a charming
villa and beautiful gardens they were both
accomplished clever amiable young and in
love. How was it possible they should be
susceptible to ennui ? They could never bear
to lose sight of each other.
"
Ah, Adolphe traitor where hast thou
been ?"
"
Merely shooting in the woods, my angel."
"
What, and without me ! Fie !
promise this
shall not happen again."
"
Ah, dearest ! too gladly I promise."
Another time
"
What, Celeste ! three hours have I been
seeking for you ! Where have you hid your-
self?"
" Don't look so angry, my Adolphe, I was
only directing the gardener to build a little ar-
K5
202 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
hour for you to read in. I meant it as a sur-
prise."
"
My own Celeste ! but three hours it is an
eternity without you ! Promise not to leave
me again, without telling me where to find
you."
"
My own dearest, dearest Adolphe ! how I
love you may my company ever be as dear to
you !"
This mode of life is very charming with many
for a few days. Adolphe and Celeste loved
each other so entirely, that it lasted several
months. What at first was passion had grown
habit, and each blamed the other for want of
affection, if he or she ever indulged in the no-
velty of different pursuits.
As they had nothing to do but to look at
those faces they had thought so handsome, so it
was now and then difficult not to yawn ;
and of
late there had been little speeches like the
following :
"
Adolphe, my love, you never talk to me
put down that odious book you are always
reading."
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 203
"
Celeste, my angel, you don't hear me. I
am telling you about my travels, and you gape
in my face."
"
My dear Adolphe, I am so exceedingly
sleepy."
One morning, as Adolphe woke and turned
in his bed, his eyes rested on his wife, who was
still
asleep
" Bless me," thought he,
" I never
saw this before let me look again yes, cer-
tainly, she has a wart on her chin !"
Adolphe rose and dressed himself Adolphe
was grave and meditative. They met at break-
fast the bride and bridegroom. Celeste was
in high spirits, Adolphe was sombre and de-
jected.
" Let us ride to-day," said Celeste.
"
My dear, I have a headache,"
" Poor child !
well, then, let us read the
new poem."
"
My dear, you talk so loud."
" I !" and Celeste, gazing reproachfully on
Adolphe, perceived, for the first time, some-
thing in his eyes that surprised her she looked
204 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
again
" Good Heavens !" said she to herself,
'<
Adolphe certainly squints."
On the other hand, Adolphe murmured, " The
wart has grown greatly since morning."
It is impossible to say what an effect this
fatal discovery had upon Adolphe. He thought
of it incessantly. He had nothing else to com-
plain of but then warts on the chin are cer-
tainly not becoming. Celeste's beauty had im-
proved greatly since her marriage. Every body
else saw the improvement Adolphe saw no-
thing but the wart on her chin. Her com-
plexion was more brilliant, her form more
rounded, her walk more majestic; but what is
all this, when one has a wart on the chin !
The wart seemed to grow bigger and bigger
every day to Adolphe's eyes it threatened
speedily to absorb the whole of the face. Nay,
he expected, in due time, to see his beautiful
Celeste all wart ! He smothered his pain as
well as he could, because he was naturally
well-bred and delicate ;
and no woman likes to
be told of the few little blemishes she is blind
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 205
to herself he smothered his pain, but he began
to think it would be just as well to have
separate apartments.
Meanwhile, strange to say, Adolphe's squint
grew daily more decided and pronounced.
" He
certainly did not squint before we married,"
thought Celeste ;
" it is very unpleasant it
makes one so fidgety to be stared at by a person
who sees two ways and Adolphe has unfor-
tunately a habit of staring. I think I might
venture to hint, delicately and kindly the
habit can't yet be incurable."
As wives are always the first in the emulation
of conjugal fault-finding, Celeste resolved to
hazard the hint on the first favourable oppor-
tunity. .
"
Well, my Celeste, I have brought my dog
to see you," said Adolphe one morning.
" Ah !
down, down !
Pray turn him out ;
see the mark of his paws. I can't bear dogs,
Adolphe."
"Poor thing!" said Adolphe, caressing his
insulted favourite.
206 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
" Was that to me, or to the dog?' asked
Celeste.
" Oh ! to him, to be sure."
" I beg your pardon, my dear, but I thought
you looked at me. Indeed, Adolphe, if the
truth may be said, you have lately contracted a
bad habit you are getting quite a cast in your
eye."
" Madam !" said Adolphe, prodigiously of-
fended, and hurrying to the glass.
" Don't be angry, my love ;
I would not have
mentioned it, if it did not get worse every day ;
it is yet to be cured, I am sure; just put a
wafer on the top of your nose, and you will soon
see straight."
" A wafer on the top of my nose ! Much
better put one at the tip of your chin, Celeste."
"
My chin !" cried Celeste, running in her
turn to the glass,
" What do you mean, Sir?"
"
Only that you have a very large wart there,
which it would be more agreeable to conceal."
" Sir !"
" Madam !"
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 207
" A wart on my chin monster !"
" A cast hi my eye fool !
"
" Yes ! How could I ever love a man who
squinted !"
" Or I a woman with a wart on her chin !"
"
Sir, I shall not condescend to notice your
insults. No wonder you can't see ! I pity
your infirmity."
"
Madam, I despise your insinuations; but
since you deny the evidence of your own glass,
suffer me to send for a physician, and if he can
cure your deformity, so much the better for you,"
"
Yes, send for a physician ;
he will say whe-
ther you squint or not poor Adolphe, I am not
angry, no, I pity so melancholy a defect."
Celeste burst into tears. Adolphe, in a rage,
seized his hat, mounted his horse, and went him-
self for the doctor.
The doctor was a philosopher as well as a
physician he took his pony^ and ambled back
with Adolphe. By the way he extracted from
Adolphe his whole history, for men in a passion
are easily made garrulous.
" The perfidious
208 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
woman," said Adolphe, "would you believe it?
we braved every thing for each other never
were two persons so much in love nay, we at-
tempted suicide rather than endure a longer
separation. I renounced the most brilliant mar-
riages for her sake too happy that she was
mine without a dowry and now she declares I
squint. And, oh, she has such a wart on her
chin !"
The Doctor could not very well see whether
Adolphe squinted, for he had his hat over his
eyes ; besides he prudently thought it best to
attend to one malady at a time.
" As to the wart, Sir," said he,
" it is not diffi-
cult to cure."
" But if
my wife won't confess that she has it,
she will never consent to be cured. I would
not mind if she would but own it, Oh the vanity
of women !"
" It must have been after some absence that
this little defect was perceived by you
"
" After absence we have not been a day
separated since we married."
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 209
'
O-ho,' thought the Doctor, sinking into a re-
verie I have said he was a philosopher but
it did not require much philosophy to know that
persons who would have died for each other a
few months ago, were not alienated only by a
wart or a cast in the eye.
They arrived at Adolphe's villa they enter-
ed the saloon. Celeste no longer wept ; she had
put on her most becoming cap, and had the air
of an insulted but uncomplaining wife !
" Confess to the wart, Celeste, and I'll for-
give all," said Adolphe.
"
Nay, why so obstinate as to the cast of the
eye / shall not admire you less, (though
others may,) if
you will not be so vain as to dis-
own it."
"
Enough, Madam Doctor, regard that lady
is not the wart monstrous can it be cured ?'
"
Nay," cried Celeste, sobbing,
" look rather
at my poor husband's squint. His eyes were so
fine before we married."
The Doctor put on his spectacles he re-
garded first one and then the other.
210 THE ORDEAL OF LOVE.
"
Sir," said he, deliberately,
" this lady has
certainly a pimple on the left of her chin con-
siderably smaller than a pin's head. And, ma-
dam, the pupil of your husband's right eye is,
like that of nine persons out of ten, the
hundredth part of an inch nearer his nose than
the pupil of the left. This is the case, as it
ap-
pears to me, seeing you both for the first time.
But I do not wonder, that you, Sir, think the
pimple so enormous ; and you, madam, the eye
so distorted, since you see each other every
day !"
The pair were struck by a secret and simul-
taneous conviction ;
when an express arrived
breathless, to summon Adolphe to his father,
who was taken suddenly ill. At the end of
three months, Adolphe returned. Celeste's wart
had entirely vanished, and Celeste found her
husband's eyes were as beautiful as ever.
Taught by experience, they learnt then, that
warts rapidly grow upon chins, and squints rea-
dily settle upon eyes, that are too constantly
seen. And that it is easy for two persons to
THE ORDEAL OF LOVE. 211
die joyfully together when lovers, but prodi-
giously difficult, without economizing the pre-
sence, to live comfortably together when mar-
ried.
ON THE
WANT OF SYMPATHY
WANT OF SYMPATHY
I SMILE when I hear the ypung talk, in luxuri-
ous anticipation, of the delight of meeting with
a wholly congenial spirit an echo of the heart
a counterpart of self. Who ever lived that
did not hope to find the phantom, and who ever
lived that found it ? It is the most entire and
the most eternal of all our delusions. That
which makes up the nature of one human being
(
its nerves, sentiments, thoughts, objects, aspi-
rations) is
infinitely multiplied and complex ;
formed from a variety of early circumstances,
216 THE WANT OF SYMPATHY.
of imperfect memories, of indistinct associations,
of constitutional peculiarities, of things and
thoughts appropriate only to itself and which
were never known but partially to others. It
is a truism which every one will
acknowledge,
that no two persons were ever wholly alike,
and yet every one starts from the necessary but
gloomy corollary, that therefore you can never
find a counterpart of yourself. And so we go
on, desiring, craving, seeking, sympathy to the
last ! It is a melancholy instance, too, of the
perversity of human wishes, that they who exact
sympathy the most, are, of all, the least likely
to obtain it. It is a necessary part of the yearn-
ing and wayward temperament of the poet.
Exactly as he finds his finer and more subtle
visions uncomprehended by the herd, he sighs
for the Imagined One to whom he can pour them
forth, or who can rather understand them most
in silence by an instinct by a magnetism by
all that invisible and electric harmony of two
souls, which we understand by the word '
Sym-
pathy,' in its fullest and divinest sense. Yet in
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 217
proportion evidently to the rareness of this
nature is the improbability of finding a likeness
to it. And if we succeed at last, if we do find
another being equally sensitive equally way-
ward equally acute and subtle instead of
sympathizing with us, it demands only sympa-
thy for itself. The one most resembling a poet
would be a poetess. And a poetess is, of all,
the last who could sympathize with a poet.
Two persons linked together, equally self-ab-
sorbed, morbid, susceptible, and exacting !
Mephistophiles himself could not devise a
union more unhappy and more ill-assorted ! It
is a strange thing,- that those who are most cal-
culated to bear with genius, to be indulgent to
its eccentricities and its infirmities, to foresee
and forestall its wishes, to honour it with the
charity and the reverence of love, are usually
without genius themselves, and of an intellect
comparatively mediocre and humble. It is the
touching anecdote of the wife of a man of genius,
that she exclaimed on her death-bed,
"
Ah, my
poor friend, when I am no more, who will un-
VOL. i. L
218 WANT OF SYMPATHY.
derstand thee ?" Yet this woman, who felt she
did comprehend the nature with which her life
had been linked, was of no correspondent
genius. Biography that immortalizes her ten-
derness, is silent upon her talents. In fact,
there is no real sympathy between the great
man and another, but that which supplies its
place is the reverent affection of admiration. And
I doubt whether the propensity to venerate per-
sons be a common faculty of the highest order
of the mind. Such men know indeed venera-
tion, their souls are imbued with it ; but it is
not for mortals, over whom they feel their supe-
riority, it is for things abstract and incorporeal
for Glory or for Virtue for Wisdom for Na-
ture, or for God. Even in the greatest men
around them, their sight, unhappily too acute,
penetrates to the foibles; they measure their
fellow mortals by the standard of their Ideal.
They are not blinded by the dazzle of genius,
for genius is a thing to them household and
familiar. They may pity, but they cannot ad-
mire. God and the angels compassionate our
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 219
frailties, they do not admire our powers. And
they who approach the most to the Divine In-
telligence, or the Angelic Holiness, behold their
brethren from a height ; they may stoop from
their empyreal air to cherish and to pity but it
is the things above them that they reverence
and adore.
It is in a lower class of intellect, yet one not
imelevated as compared with the herd, that
the principle of admiration is most frequent
and pervading, an intellect that seeks a mo-
nitor, a protector, a standard or a guide one
that can appreciate greatness, but has no
measure within whereby to gauge its propor-
tions. Thus we observe in biography, that
the friendship between great men is
rarely
intimate or permanent. It is a Boswell that
most appreciates a Johnson. Genius has no
brother, no co-mate; the love it inspires is
that of a pupil or a son. Hence, unconscious
of the reasons, but by that fine intuition into
nature, which surpasses all philosophy, the
poets usually demand devotion, as the most
L 2
220 WANT OF SYMPATHY.
necessary attribute in their ideals of love ; they
ask in their mistress a being, not of lofty intel-
lect, nor of brilliant genius, but engrossed, ab-
sorbed in them; a Medora for the Conrade.
It was well to paint that Medora in a savage
island, to exclude her from the world. In
civilized life, poor creature, caps and bonnets
an opera box, and Madame Carson, would soon
have shared her heart with her Corsair ! Yet
this species of love, tender, and unearthly though
it be, is not sympathy. Conrade could not have
confided in Medora. She was the mistress of
his heart, not, in the beautiful Arabian phrase,
" the keeper of his soul." It is the inferior
natures then that appreciate, indulge, reverence,
and even comprehend genius the most, and yet
how much is there that to inferior natures it
can never reveal ! How can we pour forth all
that burning eloquence of passion and memory
which often weighs upon us like a burden, to
one who will listen to us indeed with rapt ears,
but who will long, as Boswell longed, for Mr.
Somebody to be present to hear how finely we
can talk?
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 221
Yet we have brief passages in life when we
fancy we have attained our object ;
when we
cry
" Eureka" when we believe our counter-
part, the wraith of our spirit, is before us !
Two persons in love with each other, how conge-
nial they appear ! In that beautiful pliancy that
unconscious system of self-sacrifice which are
the character of love in its earlier stages; each
nature seems blended and circumfused in each
they are not two natures, they are one ! Seen
by that enchanting moonlight of delicious pas-
sion all that is harsh or dissonant is mellowed
down ;
the irregularities, the angles, sleep in
shadow ;
all that we behold is in harmony with
ourselves. Then is our slightest thought pene-
trated, our faintest desire forestalled, our suffer-
ings of mind, or of frame, how delicately are
they consoled ! Then even sorrow and sickness
have their charm they bring us closer under
the healing wings of our Guardian Spirit. And,
fools that we are, we imagine this sympathy is
to endure for ever. But TIME there is the
divider !
by little and little, we grow apart
222 WANT OF SYMPATHY.
from each other. The daylight of the world
creeps in, the moon has vanished, and we see
clearly all the jarring lines and corners hidden
at first from our survey. The lady has her ob-
jects, and the gentleman his.
My lost, my buried, my unforgotten !
You,
whom I knew in the first fresh years of life
you, who were snatched from me before one
leaf of the Summer of Youth and of Love was
withered you, over whose grave, yet a boy, I
wept away half the softness of my soul ;
now
that I know the eternal workings of the world,
and the destiny of all human ties, I rejoice that
you are no more ! that custom never dulled
the music of your voice the pathos and the
magic of your sweet eyes that the halo of
a dream was round you to the last ! Had
you survived till now, we should have sur-
vived not our love, indeed but all that
renders love most divine the rapt and
wild idolatry that scarce believed it adored a
mortal thing of frailty and of change the ex-
aggerated, the measureless credulity in the faith,
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 223
the virtues of each other, that almost made
us what it believed, in our desire not to fall
short of the god-like standard by which we
were raised in our mutual eyes above the chil-
dren of earth. All this, how long since would
it have passed away ! our love would have
fallen into " the portion of weeds and worn out
faces," which is the lot of all who love. As it
is, I can transport myself from every earthly
disappointment when I recur to you ! On
your image there rests no shadow of a shade !
In my hours of sickness in the darkness of
despondency in the fever of petty cares, and
all the terrors of the future you glide before
me in your fresh youth, and with your tender
smile for from you never came the harsh
word or the wronging thought. In all that I
recall of you there is not one memory which I
would forget. Death is the great treasure house
of Love. There, lies buried the real wealth of
passion and of youth ; there, the heart, once so
prodigal, now grown the miser, turns to contem-
plate the hoards it has hidden from the world.
224 WANT OF SYMPATHY.
Henceforth, it is but the common and petty
coins of affection, that it wastes on the uses and
things of life.
The coarser and blunter minds, intent upon
common things, obtain, perhaps, a sufficient
sympathy to satisfy them. The man who does
nothing but hunt, will find congeniality enough
wherever there are hounds and huntsmen. The
woman, whose soul is in a ball-room, has a host
of intimate associates, and congenial spirits. It
was the man of the world who talked of his
numerous friends it was the sage who replied,
sadly,
" Friends !
happy art thou, I have never
found one !"
There are two remedies for the craving after
sympathy, and the first I recommend to all
literary men, as the great means of preserving
the moral health. It is this ;
we should culti-
vate, besides our more intellectual objects, some
pursuit which we can have in common with the
herd : Some end, whether of pleasure, of busi-
ness, of politics, that brings us in contact with
our kind. It is in this that we can readily
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 225
find a fellowship in this we can form a vent
for our desire of sympathy from others. And
thus, we learn to feel ourselves not alone.
Solitude then becomes to us a relief, and our
finer thoughts are the seraphs that watch and
haunt it. Our imagination, kept rigidly from
the world, is the Eden in which we walk with
God. For having in the crowd embraced the
crowd's objects, and met with fellowship in re-
turn, we no longer desire so keenly a sym-
pathy with that which is not common to others,
and belongs to the nobler part of us. And this
brings me to the second .remedy. We learn
thus to make our own dreams and thoughts our
companion, our beloved, our Egeria. We acquire
the doctrine of self-dependence, self suffices
to self. In our sleep from the passions of the
world, God makes an Eve to us from our own
breasts. Yet sometimes it will grieve us to
think we shall return to clay, give up the heri-
tage of life, our atoms dissolve and crumble into
the elements of new things with all the most
lovely, the most spiritual part of us untold !
L5
226 WANT OF SYMPATHY.
What volumes can express one tithe that we
have felt ? How many brilliant thoughts have
broke upon us how many divinest visions have
walked by our side, that would have mocked all
our efforts to transfer to this inanimate page ?
To sit coldly down, to copy the fitful and sud-
den hues of those rainbow and evanescent
images varying with every moment ! no ! we
are not all so cased in authorship, we are greater
than mere machines of terms and periods. The
author is inferior to the man ! As the best
part of Beauty is that which no picture can ex-
press,* so the best part of the Poet is that which
no words have told. Had Shakspeare lived
for ever, could he have exhausted his thoughts ?
It is a yet harder thought, perhaps, than the
reflection which I have just referred to, and
which has in it something of vanity to know
how much, for want of sympathy in those around
us, our noblest motives, our purest qualities,
are misunderstood. We die none have known
us ! and yet all are to declaim on our charac-
*
Bacon.
WANT OF SYMPATHY. 2*27
ter measure at a glance the dark abyss of our
souls prate of us as if we were household and
hackneyed to them from our cradle. One amongst
the number shall write our biography the rest
shall read and conceive they know us ever after-
wards. We go down to our sons' sons, darkened
and disguised; so that, looking on men's co-
lourings of our mind and life, from our repose on
the bosom of God, we shall not recognise one
feature of the portrait we have left to earth !
AHASMANES;
on,
THE SEEKER.
ARASMANEvS;
OR, THE SEEKER.
CHAPTER I.
IN the broad plains of Chaldaea, and not the
least illustrious of those shepherd-sages, from
whom came our first learning of the lights of
heaven, the venerable Chosphor saw his age de-
cline into the grave. Upon his death-bed he
thus addressed his only son, the young Aras-
manes, in whose piety he recognised, even in
that gloomy hour, a consolation and a blessing ;
and for whose growing renown for wisdom and
232 ARASMANES.
for valour, the faint pulses of expiring life yet
beat with paternal pride.
"
Arasmanes," said he,
" I am about to im-
part to you the only secret which, after devoting
eighty years to unravel the many mysteries of
knowledge, I consider worthy of transmitting to
fny child. Thou knowest that I have wandered
over the distant regions of the world, and have
experienced, with all the vicissitudes, some of
the triumphs, and many of the pleasures, of
life. Learn, from my experience, that earth
possesses nothing which can reward the pursuit,
or satisfy the desire. When you see the stars
shining down upon the waters you behold an
image of the visionary splendours of hope : the
light sparkles on the wave ;
but it neither
warms while it glitters, nor can it, for a single
instant, arrest the progress of the stream from
the dark gulf into which it hastens to merge
itself and be lost. It was not till
my old age that
this conviction grew upon my mind ;
and about
that time, I discovered, from one of the sacred
books to which my studies were then applied,
ARASMANES. 233
the secret I am now about to confide to thy ear.
Know, my son, that in the extremities of Asia
there is a garden in which the God of the Uni-
verse placed the first parents of mankind. In
that garden the sun never sets; nor does the
beauty of the seasons wane. There, is neither
Ambition, nor Avarice, nor false Hope, nor its
child, Regret. There, is neither age nor de-
formity ; diseases are banished from the air ;
eternal youth, and the serenity of an unbroken
happiness, are the prerogative of all things that
breathe therein. For a mystic and unknown sin
our first parents were banished from this happy
clime, and their children scattered over the
earth. Superhuman beings are placed at its
portals, and clouds and darkness veil it from the
eyes of ordinary men. But, to the virtuous and
to the bold, there is no banishment from the
presence of God; and by them the darkness
may be penetrated, the dread guardians softened,
and the portals of the divine land be passed.
Thither, then, my son early persuaded that
the rest of earth is paved with sorrow and with
*2.*34 ARASMANES.
care thither, then, bend thy adventurous way.
Fain could I have wished that, in my stronger
manhood, when my limbs could have served my
will, I had learned this holy secret, and repaired
in search of the ancestral clime. Avail thyself
of my knowledge ; and, in the hope of thy hap-
piness, I shall die contented." The pious son
pressed the hand of his sire, and promised obe-
dience to his last command.
"
But, oh, my father !" said he,
" how shall
I know in what direction to steer my course ?
To this land who shall be my guide, or what my
clue ? Can ship, built by mortal hands, anchor
at its coast ; or can we say to the camel-driver,
'
Thou art approaching to the goal ?'
"
The old man pointed to the east.
" From the east," said he,
" dawns the sun
type of the progress of the mind's light ; from
the east comes all of science that we know.
Born in its sultry regions, seek only to pierce
to its extreme ; and, guiding thyself by the stars
of heaven ever in one course, reach at last the
ADEN that shall reward thy toils."
ARASMANES. 235
And Chosphor died, and was buried with his
fathers.
After a short interval of mourning, Aras-
manes took leave of his friends; and, turning
his foot-steps to the east, sought the gates of
Paradise.
He travelled far, and alone, for several weeks;
and the stars were his only guides. By degrees,
as he progressed, he found that the existence of
Aden was more and more acknowledged. Ac-
customed from his boyhood to the companion-
ship of sages, it was their abodes that he sought
in each town or encampment through which the
wanderer passed. By them his ardour was con-
firmed ;
for they all agreed in the dim and re-
mote tradition of some beautiful region in the
farthest east, from which the existing races of
the earth were banished, and which was jea-
lously guarded from profane approach by the
wings of the spirits of God. But, if he com-
municated to any one his daring design, he had
the mortification to meet only the smile of
derision, or the incredulous gaze of wonder :
by
236 ARASMANES.
some he was thought a madman, and by others
an impostor. So that, at last, he prudently re-
frained from revealing his intentions, and con-
tented himself with seeking the knowledge, and
listening to the conjectures of others.
CHAPTER II.
AT length the traveller emerged from a mighty
forest, through which, for several days, he had
threaded his weary way; and beautiful beyond
thought was the landscape that broke upon his
view. A plain covered with the richest verdure
lay before him ; through the trees that, here and
there, darkened over the emerald ground, were
cut alleys, above which arched festoons of many-
coloured flowers, whose hues sparkled amidst
the glossy foliage, and whose sweets steeped
the air as with a bath. A stream, clear as crys-
tal, flowed over golden sands, and, wherever the
sward was greenest, gathered itself into delicious
ARASMANES. 237
fountains, and sent upward its dazzling spray,
as if to catch the embraces of the sun, whose
beams kissed it in delight.
.
The wanderer paused in ecstasy ;
a sense of
luxurious rapture, which he had never before
experienced, crept into his soul. " Behold !"
murmured he,
"
my task is already done ;
and
Aden, the land of happiness and of youth, lies
before me !"
While he thus spake, a sweet voice answered
"Yes, O happy stranger !
thy task is done :
this is the land of happiness and of youth !"
He turned, and a maiden of dazzling beauty
was by his side. "
Enjoy the present," said she,
" and so wilt thou defy the future. Ere yet the
world was, Love brooded over the unformed
shell, till from beneath the shadow of his wings
burst forth the life of the young creation. Love,
then, is the true God, and whoso serveth him
he admits into the mysteries of a temple erected
before the stars. Behold ! thou enterest now
upon the threshold of the temple ;
thou art in
the land of happiness and youth !"
238 ARASMANF.3.
Enchanted with these words, Arasmanes gave
himself up to the sweet intoxication they
produced upon his soul. He suffered the nymph
to lead him deeper into the valley; and now,
from a thousand vistas in the wood, trooped
forth beings, some of fantastic, some of the most
harmonious, shapes. There, were the satyr and
the faun, and the youthful Bacchus mixed
with the multiform deities of India, and the wild
objects of Egyptian worship; but more nu-
merous than all were the choral nymphs, that
spiritualized the reality, by incorporating the
dreams, of beauty ; and, wherever he looked,
one laughing Face seemed to peer forth from the
glossy leaves, and to shed, as from its own
joyous yet tender aspect, a tenderness and a
joy over all things ;
and he asked how this Be-
ing, that seemed to have the power of multi-
plying itself every where, was called ? And its
name was Eros.
For a time the length of which he knew not
for in that land no measurement of time was
kept Arasmanes was fully persuaded that it
ARASMANES. 239
was Aden to which he had attained. He felt
his youth as if it were something palpable ;
every thing was new to him even in the shape
of the leaves, and the whisper of the odorous
airs, he found wherewithal to marvel at and
admire. Enamoured of the maiden that had
first addressed him, at her slightest wish, (and
she was full of all beautiful caprices,) he was
ready to explore even the obscurest recess
in the valley which now appeared to him un-
bounded. He never wearied of a single hour.
He felt as if weariness were impossible ; and,
with every instant, he repeated to himself,
" In
the land of happiness and youth I am a dwel-
ler."
One day, as he was conversing with his be-
loved, and gazing upon her face, he was amazed
to behold that, since the last time he had gazed
upon it, a wrinkle had planted itself upon the
ivory surface of her brow ; and, even while half
doubting the evidence of his eyes, new wrinkles
seemed slowly to form over the forehead, and
the transparent roses of her cheek to wane and
fade ! He concealed, as well as he could, the
240 ARASMANES.
mortification and wonder that he experienced at
this strange phenomenon ; and, no longer daring
to gaze upon a face from which before he had
drunk delight as from a fountain, he sought ex-
cuses to separate himself from her, and wan-
dered, confused and bewildered with his own
thoughts, into the wood. The fauns, and the
dryads, and the youthful face of Bacchus, and
the laughing aspect of Eros, came athwart him
from time to time; yet the wonder that had
clothed them with fascination was dulled within
his breast. Nay, he thought the poor wine-god
had a certain vulgarity in his air, and he almost
yawned audibly in the face of Eros.
And now, whenever he ,met his favourite
nymph who was as the queen of. the valley
he had the chagrin to perceive that the wrinkles
deepened with every time ; youth seemed ra-
pidly to desert her ;
and instead of a maiden
scarcely escaped from childhood, it was an old
coquette that he had been so desperately in love
with.
One day he could not resist saying to her,
though with some embarrassment
ARASMANES. 241
"
Pray, dearest, is it
many years since you
have inhabited this valley ?"
"
Oh, indeed, many !" said she, smiling.
" You are not, then, very young ?" rejoined
Arasmanes, ungallantly.
" What !" cried the nymph, changing colour,
" Do you begin to discover age in my counte-
nance ? Has any wrinkle yet appeared upon my
brow ? You are silent. Oh, cruel Fate ! will
you not spare even this lover?" And the poor
nymph burst into tears.
"
My dear love," said Arasmanes, painfully,
" it is true that time begins to creep upon you ;
but my friendship shall be eternal."
Scarcely had he uttered these words, when
the nymph, rising, fixed upon him a long, sor-
rowful look, and then, with a loud cry, vanished
from his sight. Thick darkness, as a veil, fell
over the plains ;
the NOVELTY of life, with its
attendant, POETRY, was gone from the wanderer's
path for ever.
A sudden sleep crept over his senses. He
awoke confused and unrefreshed, and a long
VOL. I. M
'242 ARASMANES.
and gradual ascent, but over mountains green
indeed, and watered by many streams gushing
from the heights, stretched before him. Of the
valley he had mistaken for Aden not a vestige
remained. He was once more on the real and
solid earth.
CHAPTER III.
FOR several days, discontented and unhappy,
the young adventurer pursued his course, still
seeking only the east, and still
endeavouring to
console himself for the sweet delusions of the
past by hoping an Aden in the future.
The evening was still and clear ; the twilight
star broke forth over those giant plains free
from the culture and the homes of men, which
yet make the character of the eastern and early
world ;
a narrow stream, emerging from a fissure
in a small rock covered with moss, sparkled
forth under the light of the solemn heavens,
and flowed far away, till lost amongst the gloom
ARASMANES. 243
of a forest of palms. By the source of this
stream sat an aged man and a young female.
And the old man was pouring into his daughter's
ear for Azraaph held to Ochtor that holy re-
lationship the first doctrines of the world's
wisdom; those wild but lofty conjectures by
which philosophy penetrated into the nature and
attributes of God; and reverently the young
maiden listened, and meekly shone down the
star of eve upon the dark yet lustrous beauty of
her earnest countenance.
It was at this moment that a stranger was
seen descending from the hills that bordered the
mighty plains ; and he, too, worn and tired with
long travel, came to the stream to refresh his
burning thirst, and lave the dust from his brow.
He was not at first aware of the presence of
the old man and the maiden ;
for they were half
concealed beneath the shadow of the rock from
which the stream flowed. But the old man,
who was one of those early hermits with whom
wisdom was the child of solitude, and who,
weary with a warring and savage world, had
M 2
244 ARASMANES.
long since retired to a cavern not far from the
source of that stream, and dwelt apart with
Nature the memories of a troubled Past, and
the contemplation of a mysterious Future, the
old man, I say, accustomed to proffer to the few
wanderers that from time to time descended
the hills (seeking the cities of the east) the
hospitalities
of food and shelter, was the first to
break the silence.
Arasmanes accepted with thankfulness the
offers of the hermit, and that night he became
Ochtor's guest. There were many chambers in
the cavern, hollowed either by the hand of
Nature, or by some early hunters on the hill ;
and into one of these the old man, after the
Chaldaean had refreshed himself with the simple
viands of the hermitage, conducted the wan-
derer : it was covered with dried and fragrant
mosses ;
and the sleep of Arasmanes was long,
and he dreamed many cheerful dreams.
When he rose the next morning, he found
his entertainers were not within the cavern.
He looked forth, and beheld them once more by
ARASMANES. 245
the source of the stream, on which the morning
sun shone, and round which fluttered the happy
wings of the desert birds. The wanderer sought
his hosts in a spot on which they were accus-
tomed, morning and eve, to address the Deity.
" Thou dost not purpose to leave us soon," said
the hermit; "for he who descends from yon
mountains must have traversed a toilsome way,
and his limbs will require rest."
Arasmanes, gazing on the beauty of Azraaph,
answered,
" In truth, did I not fear that I
should disturb thy reverent meditations, the cool
of the plains and the quiet of thy cavern, and,
more than all, thy converse and kind looks,
would persuade me, my father, to remain with
thee many days."
" Behold how the wandering birds give life
and merriment to the silent stream !" said the
sage ;
" and so to the solitary man are the foot-
steps of his kind." And Arasmanes sojourned
with Ochtor the old man.
246 ARASMANES.
CHAPTER IV.
"
THIS, then, is thy tale," said Ochtor ;
" and
thou still believest in the visionary Aden of thy
father's dreams. Doubtless such a land existed
once for our happier sires; or why does tra-
dition preserve it to the race that behold it not ?
But the shadow wraps it, and the angel guards.
Waste not thy life in a pursuit, without a clue,
for a goal that thou never mayest attain. Lose
not the charm of earth in seeking after the joys
of Aden. Tarry with us, my son, in these still
retreats. This is the real Aden of which thy
father spake; for here comes neither passion
nor care. The mortifications and the disap-
pointments of earth fall not upon the recluse.
Behold, my daughter hath found favour in thine
eyes she loveth thee she is beautiful and
tender of heart. Tarry with us, my son, and
forget the lessons that thy sire, weary with a
world which he yet never had the courage to
quit, gave thee from the false wisdom of Dis-
content."
ARASMANES. 247
" Thou art right, venerable Ochtor," cried
Arasmanes with enthusiasm ;
"
give me but thy
daughter, and I will ask for no other Aden than
these plains."
CHAPTER v.
THE sun had six times renewed his course, and
Arasmanes still dwelt in the cave of Ochtor.
In the fair face of Azraaph he discovered no
wrinkles her innocent love did not pall upon
him ;
the majestic calm of Nature breathed its
own tranquillity into his soul, and in the lessons
of Ochtor he took a holy delight. He found in
his wisdom that which at once stilled the pas-
sions and inspired the thoughts. At times,
however, and of late more frequently than ever,
strong yearnings after the Aden he had so vainly
pursued were yet felt. He felt that curse of
monotony which is the invariable offspring of
quiet.
At the end of the sixth year, as one morning
'248 ARASMANES.
they stood without the door of the cavern, and
their herds fed tranquilly around them, a band
of men from the western hills came suddenly in
view :
they were discovered before they had time
to consider whether they should conceal them-
selves ; they had no cause, however, for fear the
strangers were desirous only of food and rest.
Foremost of this band was an aged man
of majestic mien, and clothed in the richest
garments of the east. Loose flowed his purple
robe, and bright shone the jewels on the girdle
that clasped his sword. As he advanced to accost
Ochtor, upon the countenance of each of the old
men grew doubt, astonishment, recognition, and
joy. "My brother!" burst from the lips of
both, and the old chief fell upon Ochtor's bosom
and wept aloud. The brothers remained alone
the whole day, and at nightfall they parted with
many tears; and Zamielides, the son of the
chief, (who was with the band,) knelt to Ochtor,
and Ochtor blessed him.
Now, when all were gone, and Silence once
more slept upon the plains, Ochtor went forth
ARASMANES. 249
alone, and Azraaph said unto her husband,
"
My father's mind seems disquieted and sad ;
go forth, I pray thee, my beloved, and comfort
him ;
the dews lie thick upon the grass, and my
father is very old."
By the banks of the stream stood Ochtor,
and his arms were folded on his breast ; the river-
horses were heard snorting in the distance, and
the wild zebras came to drink at the wave ;
and
the presence of the beasts made more impressive
the solitude of the old man.
"
Why art thou disquieted, my father?" said
Arasmanes.
" Have I not parted with my near of kin?"
" But thou didst never hope to meet them ;
and are not thy children left thee?"
Ochtor waved his hand with an unwonted im-
patience.
" Listen to me, Arasmanes. Know that Za-
miel and I were brothers. Young and ardent,
each of us aspired to rule our kind, and each of
us imagined he had the qualities that secure
command ;
but mark, my arm was the stronger
M 5
250 AKASMANES.
in the field, and my brain was the subtler in the
council. We toiled and schemed, and rose into
repute among our tribe, but Envy was busy
with our names. Our herds were seized we
were stripped of our rank we were degraded
to the level of our slaves. Then, disgusted with
my race, I left their cities, and in these vast
solitudes I forgot ambition in content But my
brother was of more hopeful heart; with a
patient brow he veiled the anger he endured.
Lo, he hath been rewarded ! His hour came
he gathered together his friends in secret he
smote our enemies in the dead of night; and at
morning, behold, he was hailed chieftain of the
tribe. This night he rides with his son to the
king of the City of Golden Palaces, whose
daughter that son is about to wed. Had I not
weakly renounced my tribe had I not fled
hither, that glorious destiny would have been
mine ; / should have been the monarch of my
race, and my daughter have matched with kings.
Marvellest thou, now, that I am disquieted, or
that my heart is sore within me ?"
ARASMANES. 251
And Arasmanes saw that the sage had been
superior to the world, only while he was sickened
of the world.
And Ochtor nourished the discontent he had
formed to his dying day; and, within three
months from that night, Arasmanes buried him
by the source of the solitary stream.
CHAPTER VI.
THE death of Ochtor, and his previous con-
fession, deeply affected Arasmanes. He woke
as from a long sleep. Solitude had lost its
spell; and he perceived that inactivity itself
may be the parent of remorse. "
If," thought
he,
" so wise, so profound a mind as that of
Ochtor was thus sensible to the memories of
ambition if, on the verge of death, he thus
regretted the solitude in which he had buried
his years, and felt, upon the first tidings from
the great world, that he had wasted the promise
and powers of life, how much more accessible
'252 ARASMANES.
>1 K mid 7 be to such feelings, in the vigour of
manhood, and with the one great object which I
swore to my father to pursue, unattained, and
even unattempted? Surely it becomes me to
lose no longer time in these houseless wastes ;
but to rise and gird up my loins, and seek with
Azraaph, my wife, for that Aden which we will
enter together !
"
These thoughts soon ripened into resolve;
and not the less so in that, Ochtor being dead,
Arasmanes had now no companion for his loftier
and more earnest thoughts. Azraaph was
beautiful and gentle ; but the moment he began
to talk about the stars, she unaffectedly yawned
in his face. She was quite contented with the
solitude, for she knew of no other world; and
the herds, and the streamlet, and every old
bush around the cavern, were society to her;
but her content, as Arasmanes began to dis-
cover, was that of ignorance, and not of wisdom.
Azraaph wept bitterly on leaving the cavern ;
but by degrees, as they travelled slowly on, the
novelty of what they saw reconciled her to
ARASMANES. 253
change ; and, except at night, when she was weary
of spirit, she ceased to utter her regrets for the
stream and the quiet cave. They travelled
eastward for several weeks, and met with no
living thing by the way, save a few serpents,
and a troop of wild horses. At length, one
evening, they found themselves in the suburbs
of a splendid city. As they approached the
gates they drew back, dazzled with the lustre,
for the gates were of burnished gold, which
shone bright and glittering as they caught a
sunny light from the lamps of naphtha that
hung, frequent, from the mighty walls.
They inquired, as they passed the gates, the
name of the city; and they heard, with some
surprise, and more joy, that it was termed,
" The City of Golden Palaces."
"
Here, then," cried Azraaph,
" we shall be
well received ;
for the son of my father's brother
is wedded to the daughter of the king."
" And here, then, will be many sages,"
thought Arasmanes,
" who will, doubtless, have
some knowledge of the true situation of Aden."
254 AKASMANES.
They were much struck, as they proceeded
through the streets, with the bustle, and life,
and animation, that reigned around, even at
that late hour. With the simplicity natural to
persons who had lived so long in a desert, they
asked at once for the king's palace. The first
time Arasmanes asked, it was of a young lord,
who, very sumptuously dressed, was treading
the streets with great care, lest he should soil
the hem of his robe. The young lord looked at
him with grave surprise, and passed on. The
next he asked was a rude boor, who was carry-
ing a bundle of wood on his shoulders. The
boor laughed in his face ; and Arasmanes, in-
dignant at the insult, struck him to the ground.
There then came by a judge, and Arasmanes
asked him the same question.
" The king's palace!" said the judge; "and
what want ye with the king's palace ?"
"
Behold, the daughter of the king is married
to my wife's cousin."
"
Thy wife's cousin ! Thou art mad to say
it ; yet stay, thou lookest poor, friend, (here the
ARASMANES. 255
judge frowned terribly.) Thy garments are
scanty and worn. I fancy thou hast neither
silver nor gold."
" Thou sayest right," replied Arasmanes ;
" I have neither."
"
Ho, ho !" quoth the judge ;
" he confesses
his guilt ;
he owns that he has neither silver nor
gold. Here, soldiers, seize this man and wo-
man. Away with them to prison ;
and let them
be brought up for sentence of death to-morrow.
We will then decide whether they shall be
hanged or starved. The wretches have, posi-
tively, neither silver nor gold; and, what is
worse, they own it !"
" Is it possible !" cried the crowd ; and
a shudder of horror crept through the by-
standers. "
Away with them !
away with them !
Long life to Judge Kaly, whose eye never
sleeps, and who preserves us for ever from the
poor !"
The judge walked on, shedding tears of vir-
tuous delight at the reputation he had ac-
quired.
256 ARASMANES.
Arasmanes and Azraaph were hurried off to
prison, where Azraaph cried herself to sleep, and
Arasmanes, with folded arms and downcast
head, indulged his meditations on the very ex-
traordinary notions of crime that seemed com-
mon to the sons of the City of Golden Palaces.
They were disturbed the next morning by loud
shouts beneath the windows of the prison.
Nothing could equal the clamour that they
heard; but it seemed the clamour of joy. Jn
fact, that morning the princess who had
married Azraaph's cousin had been safely
brought to bed of her first child ;
and great was
the joy and the noise throughout the city. Now,
it was the custom in that country, whenever
any one of the royal family was pleased to aug-
ment the population of the world, for the father
of the child to go round to all the prisons in
the city, and release the prisoners. What good
fortune for Arasmanes and Azraaph, that the
princess had been brought to bed before they
were hanged !
And, by-and-by, amidst cymbal and psalter,
ARASMANES. 257
with banners above him and spears around,
came the young father to the jail, in which our
unfortunate couple were confined.
" Have you any extraordinary criminals in
your prison ?" asked the prince, of the head
jailor; for he was studying, at that time, to be
affable.
"
Only one man, my lord, who was com-
mitted last night ;
and who absolutely confessed
in cold blood, and without torture, that he had
neither silver nor gold. It is a thousand pities
that such a miscreant should be suffered to go
free !"
" You are right," said the prince ;
" and what
impudence to confess the crime ! I should like
to see so remarkable a criminal."
So saying, the prince dismounted, and fol-
lowed the jailor to the cell in which Arasmanes
and his wife were confined. They recognised
their relation at once ; for, in that early age of
the world, people in trouble had a wonderfully
quick memory in recollecting relatives in power.
Azraaph ran to throw herself on the prince's
258 ARASMANES.
neck, (which the guards quickly prevented,) and
the stately Arasmanes began to utter his manly
thanks for the visit.
" These people are mad," cried the prince,
hastily.
" Release them ;
but let me escape
first." So saying, he ran down stairs so fast that
he nearly broke his neck ;
and then, mounting
his horse, pursued his way to the other prisons,
amidst the shouts of the people.
Arasmanes and Azraaph were now turned
out into the streets. They were exceedingly
hungry; and they went into the first baker's
shop they saw, and asked the rites of hospitality.
"
Certainly ; but your money first," said the
baker.
Arasmanes, made wise by experience, took
care not to reply that he had no money ;
" But"
said he,
" I have left it behind me at my lodg-
ing. Give me the bread now, and lo, I will repay
thee to-morrow."
"
Very well," said the baker ;
" but that
sword of yours has a handsome hilt : leave it
with me till
you return with the monies."
ARASMANES. 259
So Arasmanes took the bread, and left the
sword.
They were now refreshed, and resolved to
leave so dangerous a city as soon as they pos-
sibly could, when, just as they turned into a
narrow street, they were suddenly seized by six
soldiers, blindfolded, gagged, and hurried away,
whither they knew not. At last they found
themselves ascending a flight of stairs. A few
moments more, and the bandages were removed
from their mouths and eyes, and they saw them-
selves in a gorgeous chamber, and alone in the
presence of the prince, their, cousin.
He embraced them tenderly.
"
Forgive me,"
said he,
" for appearing to forget you ; but it
was as much as my reputation was worth in this
city to acknowledge relations who confessed to
have neither silver nor gold. By the beard of
my grandfather, how could you be so impru-
dent? Do you not know that you are in a
country in which the people worship only one
deity, the god of the precious metals ? Not to
have the precious metals is not to have virtue ;
260 ARASMANES.
to confess it, is to be .an atheist. No power
could have saved you from death, either by
hanging or starvation, if the princess, my wife,
had not been luckily brought to bed to-day."
" What a strange what a barbarous coun-
try !" cried Arasmanes.
" Barbarous !
"
echoed the prince :
" this is
the most civilized people in the whole world,
nay, the whole world acknowledges it. In no
country are the people so rich, and, therefore,
so happy. For those who have no money it is,
indeed, a bad place of residence ; for those who
have, it is the land of happiness itself. Yes, it
is the true Aden."
" Aden ! What then, you, too, have heard of
Aden?"
"
Surely ! and this is it the land of freedom
of happiness of gold !" cried the prince,
with enthusiasm :
" remain with us and see."
" Without doubt," thought Arasmanes,
" this
country lies in the far east : it has received me
inhospitably at first ;
but perhaps the danger I
escaped was but the type and allegorical truth of
ARASMANES. 261
the sworded angel of which tradition hath
spoken."
"
But," said he aloud,
" I have no
gold, and no silver, O my prince !"
" Heed not that," answered the kind Zamie-
lides: "I have enough for all. You shall be
provided for this very day."
" But will not the people recognise me as
the poor stranger?"
The prince laughed for several minutes so
loudly, that they feared he was going into
fits.
" What manner of man art thou, Aras-
manes ?" said he, when he was composed enough
to answer.
" Knowest thou not that the people of this
city never know what a man has been when he
is once rich ? Appear to-morrow in purple, and
they will never dream that they saw thee yester-
day in rags."
'262 ARASMANES.
CHAPTER VII.
THE kind Zamielides, then, conducting his
cousins into his own chamber, left them to at-
tire themselves in splendid garments, which he
had ordered to be prepared for them. He gave
them a palace and large warehouses of mer-
chandise.
"
Behold," said he, taking Arasmanes to the
top of a mighty tower which overlooked the
sea :
" behold yonder ships that rise like a
forest of masts, from that spacious harbour ;
the six vessels with the green flags are thine. I
will teach thee the mysteries of Trade, and thou
wilt soon be as wealthy as myself."
" And what is Trade, my lord ?" said Aras-
manes.
"It is the worship that the people of this
country pay to their god," answered the prince.
ARASMANES. 263
CHAPTER VIII.
AUASMANES was universally courted; so wise,
so charming a person had never appeared in
the City of Golden Palaces, and as for the
beauty of Azraaph, it was declared the very
masterpiece of nature. Intoxicated with the
homage they received, and the splendour in
which they lived, their days glided on in a
round of luxurious delight.
"
Right art thou, O Zamielides !" cried
Arasmanes, as his ships returned with new
treasure ;
" the City of Golden Palaces is the
true Aden."
CHAPTER IX.
ARASMANES had now been three years in the city ;
and you might perceive that a great change had
come over his person : the hues of health had
264 ARASMANES.
faded from his cheeks : his brow was care-worn
his step slow his lips compressed. He no
longer thought that he lived in the true Aden ;
and yet for Aden itself he would scarcely have
quitted the City of Golden Palaces. Occupied
solely with the task of making and spending
money, he was consumed with the perpetual fear
of losing, and the perpetual anxiety to increase
his stock. He trembled at every darker cloud
that swept over the heavens ;
he turned pale at
every ruder billow that agitated the sea. He
lived a life of splendid care : and the pleasures
which relieved it were wearisome because of
their sameness. He saw but little of his once
idolized Azraaph. Her pursuits divided her
from him. In so civilized a country they could
not be always together. If he spoke of his
ships he wearied her to death ;
if she spoke of
the festivals she had adorned, he was equally
tired of the account
ARASMANES. 265
CHAPTER X.
THE court was plunged in grief. Zamielides
was seized with a fever. All the wise men at-
tended him ;
but he turned his face to the wall
and died. Arasmanes mourned for him more
sincerely than any one; for, besides that Aras-
manes had great cause to be grateful to him, he
knew, also, that if
any accident happened to his
vessels, he had now no friend willing to supply
the loss. This made him more anxious than ever
about the safety of his wealth. A year after
this event, the king of the City of Golden
Palaces thought fit to go to war. The war
lasted four years ;
and two millions of men were
killed on all sides. The second year Arasmanes
was at a splendid banquet given at the court.
A messenger arrived, panting and breathless.
A great battle at sea had been fought. Ten
thousand of the king's subjects had been
killed.
VOL. i. N
266 ARASMANES.
" But who won the battle ?" cried the king.
" Your majesty."
The air was rent with shouts of joy.
" One little accident only," continued the
herald,
"
happened the next day. Three of
the scattered war-ships of the enemy fell in
with the vessels of some of our merchants re-
turning from Ophir, laden with treasure, and, in
revenge, they burnt and sunk them."
" Were my ships of the number?" asked
Arasmanes, with faltering tongue.
" It was of thy ships that I spoke," answered
the messenger.
But nobody thought of Arasmanes, or of the
ten thousand subjects that were killed. The
city was out of its wits with joy that his majesty
had won the victory.
" Alas ! I am a ruined man !" said Aras-
manes, as he sat with ashes on his head.
" And we can give no more banquets," sighed
his wife.
" And every body will trample upon us," said
Arasmanes.
ARASMANES. 267
" And we must give up our palace," groaned
the tender Azraaph.
" But one ship remains to me !" cried Aras-
manes, starting up,
" it is now in port. I will
be its captain. I will sail myself with it to
Ophir. I will save my fortunes, or perish in
the attempt"
" And I will accompany thee, my beloved,"
exclaimed Azraaph, flinging herself on his neck ;
"/or I cannot bear the pity of the wives whom
I have outshone !"
The sea was calm, and the wind favourable
when the unfortunate pair entered their last
ship ; and, for a whole week, the gossip at court
was of the folly of Arasmanes, and the devotion
of his wife.
CHAPTER XI.
THEY had not been many weeks at sea, before
an adverse wind set in, which drove them
entirely out of their destined course. They
were beaten eastward, and, at length, even
N 2
268 ARASMAXES.
the oldest and most experienced of the ma-
riners confessed they had entered seas utterly
unknown to them. Worn and wearied, when
their water was just out, and their provisions
exhausted, they espied land, and, at nightfall,
the ship anchored on a green and pleasant
shore. The inhabitants, half naked, and scarce
escaped from the first savage state of nature,
ran forth to meet and succour them :
by mighty
fires the seamen dried their wet garments, and
forgot the hardships they had endured. They re-
mained several days with the hospitable savages,
repaired their vessel, and replenished its stores.
But what especially attracted the notice of Aras-
manes, was the sight of some precious diamonds
which, in a rude crown, the chief of the savages
wore on his head. He learned from signs easy
of interpretation, that these diamonds abounded
in a certain island in the farthest east ;
and that
from time to time large fragments of rock in
which they were imbedded were cast upon the
shore. But when Arasmanes signified his in-
tention to seek this island, the savages, by ges-
ARASMANES. 269
tures of horror and dismay, endeavoured to de-
note the dangers that attended the enterprise,
and to dissuade him from attempting it. Na-
turally bold, and consumed with his thirst for
wealth, these signs made but little impression
upon the Chaldaean ; and one fair morning he
renewed his voyage. Steering perpetually to-
wards the east, and with favouring winds, they
came, on the tenth day, in sight of an enormous
rock, which shone far down over the waters with
so resplendent a glory, as to dazzle the eyes of
the seamen. Diamond and ruby, emerald and
carbuncle, glittered from- the dark soil of the
rock, and promised to the heart of the humblest
mariner the assurance of illimitable wealth.
Never was human joy more ecstatic than that of
the crew as the ship neared the coast. The
sea was in this place narrow and confined,
the opposite shore was also in view black,
rugged, and herbless, with pointed rocks, round
which the waves sent their white foam on high,
guarding its drear approach : little recked they,
however, of the opposite shore, as their eyes
J70 ARASMANES.
strained towards " the Island of Precious
Stones." They were in the middle of the
strait, when suddenly the waters became agi-
tated and convulsed ;
the vessel rocked to and
fro ; something glittering appeared beneath the
surface ; and, at length, they distinctly perceived
the scales and tail of an enormous serpent
Thereupon a sudden horror seized the whole
crew ; they recognised the truth of that tradition,
known to all seamen, that in the farthest east
lived the vast Snake of the Ocean, whose home
no vessel ever approached without destruction.
All thought of the diamond rock faded from
their souls. They fell at once upon their
knees, and poured forth unconscious prayers.
But high above all rose the tall form of Aras-
manes : little cared he for serpent or tradition.
Fame and fortune, and Me, were set upon one
cast.
" Rouse thee !" said he, spurning the pilot,
" or we drive upon the opposite shore. Behold,
the island of inexhaustible wealth glows upon
us!"
Scarce had the words left his lips, when, with
ARASMANES. 271
a slow and fearful hiss, the serpent of the east
seas reared his head from the ocean. Dark and
huge as the vastest cavern in which ghoul or
Afrite ever dwelt was the abyss of his jaws, and
the lurid and terrible eyes outshone even the
lustre of the diamond rock.
" I defy thee," cried Arasmanes, waving his
sword above his head ;
when suddenly the ship
whirled round and round ;
the bold Chaldaean
was thrown with violence on the deck ;
he felt
the waters whirl and blacken over him; and
then all sense of life deserted him.
When he came to himself, Arasmanes was
lying on the hot sands of the shore opposite to the
Diamond Isle ;
wrecks of the vessel were strewn
around him, and here and there the dead bodies
of his seamen. But at his feet lay, swollen and
distorted, the shape of his beautiful Azraaph,
the sea-weeds twisted round her limbs, and the
deformed shell-fish crawling over her long hair.
And tears crept into the eyes of the Chaldaean,
and all his old love for Azraaph returned, and
he threw himself down beside her mangled re-
272 ARASMANES.
mains, and tore his hair; the schemes of the
later years were swept away from his memory
like visions, and he remembered only the lone
cavern and his adoring bride.
Time rolled on, and Azraaph was buried in
the sands ;
and Arasmanes tore himself from the
solitary grave, and, striking into the interior of
the coast, sought once more to discover the
abodes of men. He travelled far and beneath
burning suns, and at night he surrounded his
resting-places with a circle of fire, for the wild
beasts and the mighty serpents were abroad :
scant and unwholesome was the food he gleaned
from the berries and rank roots that now and
then were visible in the drear wastes through
which he passed ;
and in this course of hardship
and travail he held commune with his own
heart. He felt as if cured for ever of the evil
passions. Avarice seemed gone from his breast,
and he dreamt that no unholy desire could suc-
ceed to its shattered throne.
One day, afar off in the desert, he descried a
glittering cavalcade glittering it was indeed,
ARASMANES. 278
for the horsemen were clad in armour of brass
and steel, and the hot sun reflected the array
like the march of a river of light. Arasmanes
paused, and his heart swelled high within him
as he heard through the wide plains the martial
notes of the trumpet and the gong, and recog-
nised the glory and pomp of war.
The cavalcade swept on ;
and the chief who
rode at the head of the band paused as he sur-
veyed with admiration the noble limbs, and
proud stature, and dauntless eye of the Chal-
daean, The chief summoned his interpreters;
and in that age the languages of the east were
but slightly dissimilar ; so that the chief of the
warriors conversed easily with the adventurer.
"
Know," said he,
" that we are bent upon the
most glorious enterprise ever conceived by the
sons of men. In the farthest east there is a
land of which thy fathers may have informed
thee a land of perpetual happiness and youth,
and its name is Aden." Arasmanes started ;
he
could scarce believe his ears. The warrior con-
tinued " We are of that tribe which lies to
N 5
274 AUASMANES.
the extremities of the east, and this land is there-
fore a heritage which we of all the earth have
the right to claim. Several of our youth have
at various times attempted to visit it, but super-
natural agents have repelled the attempt. Now,
therefore, that I have succeeded to the throne
of my sires, I have resolved to invade and to con-
quer it by force of arms. Survey my band.
Sawest thou ever, O Chaldsean, men of such
limbs and stature, of such weapons of offence,
and shields of proof? Canst thou conceive men
more worthy of such a triumph, or more cer-
tain to attain it ? Thou, too, art of proportions
beyond the ordinary strength of men thou
art deserving to be one of us. Come, say
the word, and the armourers shall clothe thee
in steel, and thou shalt ride at my right hand."
The neighing of the steeds, and the clangour
of the music, and the proud voice of the chief-
tain, all inspired the blood of Arasmanes. He
thought not of the impiety of the attempt he
thought only of the glory : the object of his
whole life seemed placed within his reach. He
ARASMANES. 275
grasped at the offer of the warrior; and the
armourer clad him in steel, and the ostrich-
plume waved over his brow, and he rode at the
right hand of the warrior-king.
CHAPTER XII.
THE armament was not without a guide ; for,
living so near unto the rising of the sun, what with
others was tradition with them was knowledge ;
and many amongst them had travelled to the site
of Aden, and looked upon the bkck cloud that
veiled it, and trembled at the sound of the rush-
ing but invisible wings that hovered over.
Arasmanes confided to the warrior his whole
history ; they swore eternal friendship ;
and the
army looked upon the Chaldsean as a man
whom God had sent to their assistance. For,
what was most strange, not one of the army
ever seemed to imagine there was aught un-
holy or profane in the daring enterprise in which
they had enlisted; accustomed to consider
276 ARASMANES.
bloodshed a virtue, what was the crime of win-
ning the gardens of Paradise by force ?
Through wastes and deserts they held their
way ; and, though their numbers thinned daily
by fatigue, and the lack of food, and the fiery
breath of the burning winds, they seemed not
to relax in their ardour, nor to repine at the
calamities they endured.
CHAPTER XIII.
DARKNESS gloomed like a wall ! From heaven
to earth stretched the palpable and solid Night
that was the barrier to the land of Aden. No
object gleamed through the impenetrable black-
ness; from those summitless walls hung no
banner; no human champion frowned before
the drear approach : all would have been silence,
save that, at times, they heard the solemn rush
as of some mighty sea; and they knew that it
was the rush of the guardian wings.
The army halted before the darkness, mute
ARASMANES. 277
and awed ;
their eyes recoiled from the gloom,
and rested upon the towering crest and snowy
plumage of their chief. And he bade them
light the torches of naphtha that they had
brought with them, and unsheath their swords ;
and, at the given sound, horseman and horse
dashed in through the walls of night. For one
instant, the torches gleamed and sparkled amidst
the darkness, and were then suddenly extin-
guished; but through the gloom came one
gigantic hand wielding a sword of flame; and,
wherever it turned, man smote the nearest man
father perished by his son and brother fell
gasping by the death-stroke of his brother;
shrieks and cries, and the trample of affrighted
steeds, rang through the riven shade riven
only by that mighty sword as it waved from
rank to rank, and the gloom receded from its
rays.
'278 ARASMANE3.
CHAPTER XIV.
AT eve the work was done ;
a small remnant of
the warriors, alone escaped from the general
slaughter, lay exhausted upon the ground before
the veil of Aden. Arasmanes was the last who
lingered in the warring gloom ; for, as he lay
struggling beneath the press of dying and dead,
the darkness had seemed to roll away, and, far
into its depths, he caught one glimpse of the
wonderful loveliness of Aden. There, over
valleys covered with the greenest verdure, and
watered by rivers without a wave, basked a
purpling and loving sunlight, that was peaceful
and cloudless, for it was the smile of God. And
there, were groups of happy beings scattered
around, in whose faces was the serenity of un-
utterable joy; even at the mere aspect of their
happiness happiness itself was reflected upon
the soul of the Chaldaean, despite the dread, the
horror, and the desolation of the hour. He
stretched out his arms imploringly, and the
vision faded for ever from his sight.
ARASMANES. 279
CHATTER XV.
THE king and all the principal chiefs of the
army were no more ; and, with one consent,
Arasmanes was proclaimed their leader. Sor-
rowful and dejected, he conducted the humbled
remnant of the troop back through the deserts
to the land they had so rashly left. Thrice on
their return they were attacked by hostile tribes,
but by the valour and prudence of Arasmanes
they escaped the peril. They arrived at their
native city to find that the brother of their chief
had seized the reins of government. The army,
who hated him, declared for the stranger-chief
who had led them home. And Arasmanes, hur-
ried away by the prospect of power, consented
to their wilL A battle ensued ;
the usurper was
slain ;
and Arasmanes, a new usurper, ascended
the throne in his stead.
280 ARASMANES.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE Chaldaean was no longer young ; the hard-
ships he had undergone in the desert had com-
bined with the anxieties that had preyed upon
him during his residence in the City of
Golden Palaces to plant upon his brow, and in
his heart, the furrows of untimely age. He
was in the possession of all the sources of en-
joyment at that period when we can no longer
enjoy. Howbeit, he endeavoured to amuse him-
self by his divan of justice, from which every
body went away dissatisfied, and his banquets,
at which the courtiers complained of his want
of magnificence, and the people of his profligate
expense. Grown wise by experience, he main-
tained his crown by flattering his army; and,
surrounded by luxury, felt himself supported by
power.
There came to the court of Arasmanes a
strange traveller; he was a little old man, of
plain appearance, but great wisdom ;
in fact, he
ARASMANES. 281
was one of the most noted sages of the east.
His conversation, though melancholy, had the
greatest attraction for Arasmanes, who loved to
complain to him of the cares of royalty, and
the tediousness of his life.
"
Ah, how much happier are those in a hum-
bler station !" said the king ;
" How much hap-
pier was I in the desert-cave, tending my herds,
and listening to the sweet voice of Azraaph !
Would that I could recall those days !"
" I can enable you to do so, great king !"
said the sage ;
" behold this mirror ; gaze on it
whenever you desire to -recall the past; and
whatever portion of the past you wish to sum-
mon to your eyes shall appear before you."
CHAPTER XVII.
THE sage did not deceive Arasmanes. The
mirror reflected all the scenes through which
the Chaldaean had passed : now he was at the
feet of Chosphor, a happy boy now with elastic
282 ARASMANES.
hopes entering into the enchanted valley of the
Nymph ere yet he learned how her youth could
fade now he was at the source of the little
stream, and gazing on the face of Azraaph by
the light of the earliest star ; whichever of these
scenes he wished to live over again reflected
itself vividly in the magic mirror. Surrounded
by pomp and luxury in the present, his only
solace was in the past.
" You see that I was right," said he to the
sage :
" I was much happier in those days ; else
why so anxious to renew them ?"
"
Because, O great king," said the sage, with
a bitter smile,
"
you see them without recalling
the feelings you then experienced as well as the
scenes ; you gaze on the past with the feelings
you now possess, and all that then made the
prospect clouded is softened away by time.
Judge for yourself if I speak true." So saying,
the sage breathed over the mirror, and bade
Arasmanes look into it once more. He did so.
He beheld the same scenes, but the illusion was
gone from them. He was a boy once more;
ARASMANES. 283
but restlessness, and anxiety, and a thousand
petty cares at his heart : he was again in the
cave with Azraaph, but secretly pining at the
wearisome monotony of his life : in all those
scenes he now imagined the happiest he per-
ceived that he had not enjoyed the present ; he
had been looking forward to the future, and the
dream of the unattainable Aden was at his
heart. " Alas !" said he, dashing the mirror
into pieces,
" I was deceived ;
and thou hast
destroyed for me, O sage, even the pleasure of
the past !"
CHAPTER XVIII.
ARASMANES never forgot the brief glimpse oi
Aden that he had obtained in his impious war-
fare ; and, now that the charm was gone from
Memory, the wish yet to reach the unconquered
land returned more powerfully than ever to his
mind. He consulted the sage as to its
possi-
bility.
" Thou canst make but one more attempt,"
284 ARASMANES.
answered the wise man ;
" and in that I cannot
assist thee; but one who, when I am gone
hence, will visit thee, shall lend thee her aid."
" Cannot the visitor come till thou art gone ?'
said Arasmanes.
"
No, nor until my death," answered the
sage.
This reply threw the mind of Arasmanes into
great confusion. It was true that he nowhere
found so much pleasure as in the company of
his friend it was his only solace ; but then, if
he could never visit Aden, (the object of his
whole life,) until that friend were dead ! the
thought was full of affliction to him. He began
to look upon the sage as an enemy, as an ob-
stacle between himself and the possession of his
wishes. He inquired every morning into the
health of the sage ;
he seemed most provokingly
strong. At length, from wishes for his death,
dark thoughts came upon the Chaldaean; and
he resolved to expedite it. One night the sage
was found dead in his bed; he had been
strangled by the order of the king.
ARASMANES. 285
CHAPTER XIX.
THE very next day, as the king sat in his divan,
a great noise was heard without the doors ; and,
presently, a hag, dressed in white garments of a
foreign fashion, and of a hideous and revolting
countenance, broke away from the crowd, and
made up to the king :
"
They would not let me
come to thee, because I am homely and aged,"
said she in a shrill and discordant voice ;
" but
I have been in a king's court before now "
" What wantest thou, woman?" said Aras-
manes ;
and he felt, as he spake, a chill creep to
his heart.
" I am that visitor of which the wise man
spake," said she ;
" and I would talk to thee
alone."
Arasmanes felt impelled as by some mighty
power which he could not withstand; he rose
from his throne, the assembly broke up in sur-
prise, and the hag was admitted alone to the
royal presence.
286 ARASMANES.
" Thou wouldst re-seek Aden, the land of
Happiness and Truth ?" said she, with a ghastly
smile.
"
Ay," said the king, and his knees knocked
together.
I will take thee thither."
"And when?"
"
To-morrow, if thou wilt !" and the hag
laughed aloud.
There was something in the manner, the
voice, and the appearance of this creature, so
disgusting to Arasmanes that he could brook it
no longer. Aden itself seemed not desirable
with such a companion and guide.
Without vouchsafing a reply he hastened from
the apartment, and bade his guards to admit
the hag no more to the royal presence.
The sleep of Arasmanes that night was un-
usually profound, nor did he awaken on the
following day till late at noon. From that hour
he felt as if some strange revolution had taken
place in his thoughts. He was no longer de-
sirous of seeking Aden: whether or not the.
ARASMANES. 287
apparition of the hag had given him a distaste
of Aden itself, certain it was that he felt the
desire of his whole life had vanished entirely
from his breast ;
and his only wish now was to
enjoy, as long and as heartily as he was able,
the pleasures that were within his reach.
" What a fool have I been," said he aloud,
" to waste so many years in wishing to leave
the earth ! Is it only in my old age that I be-
gin to find how much that is agreeable earth
can possess ?"
"
Come, come, come !" cried a shrill voice ;
and Arasmanes, startled, turned round to behold
the terrible face of the hag.
" Come !" said she, stamping her foot ;
" I
am ready to conduct thee to Aden."
" Wretch !" said the king, with quivering
lips,
" how didst thou baffle my guards ? But
I will strangle every one of them."
" Thou hast had enough of strangling," an-
swered the crone, with a malignant glare.
" Hast
thou not strangled thy dearest friend ?"
" What ! tauntest thou me ?" cried the king ;
288 ARA8MANES.
and he rushed at the hag with his lifted sabre :
the blade cut the air : the hag had shunned the
blow ; and, at the same moment coming behind
the king, she clasped him round the body, and
fixed her long talons in his breast ; through the
purple robe, through the jewelled vest, pierced
those vulture-fangs, and Arasmanes shrieked
aloud with the terror and the pain. The guards
rushed in at the sound of his cry.
" Villains !" said he, as the cold drops broke
from his brow,
" would ye leave me here to be
murdered ? Hew down yon hell-hag ;
her death
only can preserve life to you."
" We saw her enter not, O king," said the
chief of the guards, amazed ;
" but she shall
now die the death." The soldiers with one ac-
cord made at the crone, who stood glaring at
them like a hunted tigress.
" Fools !" said she,
" know that I laugh
alike at stone walls and armed men."
They heard the voice they saw not whence
it came the hag had vanished.
ARASMANES. 289
CHAPTER XX.
THE wound which the talons of this horrible
visitor had made in the breast of the king re-
fused to heal : it gave him excruciating anguish.
The physicians tended him in vain ; in vain,
too, did the wise men preach patience and hope
to him. What incensed him even more than the
pain was the insult he had suffered that such
a loathsome and obscene wretch should dare to
maim the person of a king ! the thought was
not to be borne. But, what was most strange,
the more pain the king suffered, the more did he
endeavour to court pleasure : life never seemed
so charming to him as at the moment when it
became an agony. His favourite courtiers,
who had been accustomed to flatter his former
weakness, and to converse with him about the
happiness of Aden, and the possibility of enter-
ing it, found that even to broach the subject
threw their royal master into a paroxysm of
rage. He foamed at the mouth at the name of
VOL. i. o
290 ARASMANES.
Aden he wished, nay, he endeavoured to be-
lieve, that there was no such place in the
universe.
CHAPTER XXI.
AT length one physician, more sanguine than
the rest, assured the king that he was able to
cure the wound and relieve the pain.
"
Know, O king," said he,
" that in the
stream of Athron, which runneth through the
valley of Mythra, there is a mystic virtue which
can cure all the diseases of kings. Thou hast only
to enter thy gilded bark, and glide down the
stream for the space of twenty roods, scattering
thine offering of myrrh and frankincense on the
waters, in order to be well once more. Let the
king live for ever !"
A RASMAXES. 291
CHAPTER XXII.
IT was a dark, deep, and almost waveless stream ;
and the courtiers, and the women, and the
guards, and the wise men, gathered round the
banks ;
and the king, leaning on the physician,
ascended his gilded bark; and the physician
alone entered the vessel with him. "
For,"
said he,
" the god of the stream loves it not to
be profaned by the vulgar crowd ; it is for kings
only that it
possesses its healing virtue."
So the king reclined .in the middle of the
vessel, and the physician took the censer of
precious odours ; and the bark drifted down the
stream, as the crowd wept and prayed upon
the shore.
" Either my eyes deceive me," said the king,
faintly,
" or the stream seems to expand super-
naturally, as into a great sea, and the shores on
either side fade into distance."
" It is so," answered the physician.
" And
o2
292 ARASMANES.
seest thou yon arch of black rocks flung over
the tide?"
"
Ay," answered the king.
" It is the approach to the land thou hast
so often desired to reach : it is the entrance into
Aden."
"
Dog!" cried the king, passionately, "name
not to me that hateful word."
As he spoke, the figure of the false physician
shrunk in size; his robes fell from him, and
the king beheld in his stead the dwarfish shape
of the accursed hag.
On drifted the vessel ; and the crowd on the
banks now beheld the hag seize the king in a
close embrace : his shriek was wafted over the
water, while the gorgeous vessel, with its silken
streamers and gilded sides, sped rapidly through
the black arch of rocks : as the bark vanished,
the chasm of the arch closed in, and the rocks
uniting, presented a solid barrier to their gaze.
But, piercing through the barrier, they shudder-
ingly heard the ghastly laugh of the hag, as she
ARASMANES. 293
uttered the one word "NEVER!" And from
that hour the king was seen no more.
And this is the true history of Arasmanes,
the Chaldaean.
ON ILL HEALTH.
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS.
ON ILL HEALTH,
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS.
WE do not enough consider our physical
state as the cause of much of our moral we do
not reflect enough upon our outward selves :
What changes have been produced in our minds
by some external cause an accident an ill-
ness ! For instance, a general state of physical
debility ILL HEALTH in the ordinary phrase,
is perhaps among the most interesting subjects
whereon to moralize. It is not like most topics
that are dedicated to philosophy refining and
o 5
298 ON ILL HEALTH,
abstruse ;
it is not a closet thesis it does not
touch one man, and avoid the circle which sur-
rounds him ;
it relates to us all for ill health is
a part of Death ;
it is its grand commencement
Sooner or later, for a longer period or a shorter,
it is our common doom. Some, indeed, are
stricken suddenly, and Disease does not herald
the Dread Comer; but such exceptions are
not to be classed against the rule ;
and in this
artificial existence afflicted by the vices of
custom the unknown infirmities of our sires
the various ills that beset all men who think or
toil the straining nerve the heated air the
overwrought or the stagnant life the cares of
poverty the luxuries of wealth the gnawings
of our several passions the string cracks some-
where, and few of us pass even the first golden
gates of Life ere we receive the admonitions of
Decay.
"
Every contingency to every man and
every creature doth preach our funeral sermon,
and calls us to look and see how the old Sexton
Time throws up the earth and digs a grave where
we must lay our sins, or our sorrows."
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 299
Life itself is but a long dying, and with
every struggle against disease " we taste the
grave and the solemnities of our own fu-
nerals. Every day's necessity calls for a repa-
ration of that portion which Death fed on all
night when we lay on his lap, and slept in his
outer chambers."*
As the beautiful mind of Tully taught itself
to regard the evils of Old Age, by fairly facing
its approach, and weighing its sufferings against
its consolations, so, with respect to habitual
infirmities, we may the better bear them by re-
collecting that they are not without their solace.
Every one of us must have observed that during
a lengthened illness the mind acquires the habit
of making to itself a thousand sources of in-
terest " a thousand images of one that was"-
out of that quiet monotony^ which seems so un-
varied to ordinary eyes. We grow usually far
more susceptible to commonplace impressions :
As one whose eyes are touched by a fairy
spell, a new world opens to us out of the surface
*
Jeremy Taylor on Holy Dying.
300 ON ILL HEALTH,
of the tritest things. Every day we discover
new objects, and grow delighted with our pro-
gress. I remember a friend of mine a man of
lively and impetuous imagination who, being
afflicted with a disease which demanded the
most perfect composure, not being allowed to
read, write, and very rarely to converse, found
an inexhaustible mine of diversion in an old
marble chimney-piece, in which the veins, irre-
gularly streaked, furnished forth quaint and
broken likenesses to men, animals, trees, &c.
He declared that, by degrees, he awoke every
morning with an object before him, and his
imagination betook itself instantly to its new
realm of discovery. This instance of the
strange power of the mind, to create to itself
an interest in the narrowest circles to which
it
may be confined, may be ludicrous, but is not
exaggerated. How many of us have watched
for hours with half-shut eyes the embers of the
restless fire? nay, counted the flowers upon
the curtains of the sick-bed, and found an in-
terest in the task ! The mind has no native
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 301
soil ;
its affections are not confined to one spot,
its dispositions fasten themselves everywhere,
they live, they thrive, they produce, in what-
ever region Chance may cast them, however re-
mote from their accustomed realm. God made
the human heart weak, but elastic ;
it hath a
strange power of turning poison into nutriment
Banish us the air of Heaven cripple the step
bind us to the sick couch cut us off from the
cheerful face of men make us keep house with
Danger and with Darkness we can yet play
with our own fancies, and after the first bitterness
of the physical thraldom, feel that despite of it
we are free !
It has been my lot to endure frequent visita-
tions of ill-health, although my muscular frame
is strong, and I am capable of bearing great
privation and almost any exertion of mere
bodily fatigue. The reason is that I reside
principally in London, and it is only of late that
I have been able to inure myself to the close air
and the want of exercise that belong to the life
of cities. However languishing in the confine-
392 ON ILL HEALTH,
ment of a metropolis, the moment I left the
dull walls, and heard the fresh waving of the
trees, I revived, the nerves grew firm pain
fled me I asked myself in wonder for my ail-
ments !
My bodily state was, then, voluntary
and self-incurred, for nothing bound or binds
me to cities: I follow no calling, I am inde-
pendent of men, sufficiently affluent in means,
and, from my youth upward, I have learnt my-
self the power to live alone. Why not then
consult health as the greatest of earthly goods ?
But is health the greatest of earthly goods ? Is
the body to be our main care ? Are we to be
the minions of self? Are we 'to make any cor-
poreal advantage the chief end
" Et propter vitam vivendi perdere causas."
I confess that I see not how men can arrogate
to themselves the Catholic boast of Immortal
Hopes how Jthey can utter the old truths of
the nothingness of life of the superiority of
mental over physical delights of the paramount
influence of the soul and the soul's objects
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 303
and yet speak of health as our greatest blessing,
and the workman's charge of filling up the
crannies of this fast mouldering clay as the
most necessary of human objects. Assuredly
health is a great blessing, and its care is not to
be despised; but there are duties far more
sacred, obligations before which the body is as
nought. For it is not necessary to live, but it
is necessary to live nobly ! And of this truth
we are not without the support of high ex-
amples. Who can read the great poet
" who
sung of heaven," and forget that his acts walked
level with the lofty eminence of his genius
that he paid
" no homage to the sun," that even
the blessing of light itself was a luxury, wil-
lingly to be abandoned but the defence of the
great rights of earth, the fulfilment of the solemn
trust of nations, the vindication of ages yet to
come, was a necessity, and not to be avoided
and wherefore ? because it was a duty ! Are
there not duties too to us though upon a
narrower scale which require no less generous
a devotion? Are there not objects which are
304 ON ILL-HEALTH,
more important than the ease and welfare of
the body? Is our first great charge that of
being a nurse to ourselves ? No :
every one of
us who writes, toils, or actively serves the state,
forms to himself, if he knoweth anything of
public virtue, interests which are not to be re-
nounced for the purchase of a calmer pulse,
and a few years added to the feeble extreme
of life.
Many of us have neither fortune, nor
power, nor extrinsic offerings to sacrifice to
mankind ;
but all of us the proud, the humble,
the rich, the poor have one possession at our
command ;
we may sacrifice ourselves ! It is
from these reasons that, at the time I refer to,
I put aside the hope of health; a good ear-
nestly indeed to be coveted, but which, if ob-
tained only by a life remote from man, inactive,
useless, self-revolving, may be too dearly bought:
and gazing on the evil which I imagined (though
erroneously) I could not cure, I endeavoured to
reconcile myself to its necessity.
And first, it seems to me that when the
nerves are somewhat weakened the senses of
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 305
sympathy are more keen we are less negligent
of our kind: that impetuous and reckless
buoyancy of spirit which mostly accompanies a
hardy and iron frame, is not made to enter into
the infirmities of others. How can it sympathize
with what it has never known? We seldom
find men of great animal health and power
possessed of much delicacy of mind ; their hu-
manity and kindness proceed from an overflow
of spirits their more genial virtues are often
but skin deep, and the result of good humour.
The susceptible frame of women causes each
more kindly and generous feeling to vibrate
more powerfully on their hearts, and thus also
that which in our harsher sex sharpens the
nerve, often softens the affection. And this is
really the cause of that increased tendency to
pity, to charity, to friendship, which comes on
with the decline of life, and which Bolingbroke
has so touchiugly alluded to. There is an ex-
citement in the consciousness of the glorious
possession of unshaken health and matured
strength which hurries us on the road of that
306 ON ILL-HEALTH,
selfish enjoyment, which we are proud of our
privilege to command. The passions of the
soul are often winged by our capacities, and are
fed from the same sources that keep the beating
of the heart strong, and the step haughty upon
the earth. Thus when the frame grows slack,
and the race of the strong can be run no more,
the Mind falls gently back upon itself it re-
leases its garments from the grasp of the
Passions which have lost their charm intel-
lectual objects become more precious, and, no
longer sufficing to be a world to ourselves, we
contract the soft habit of leaning our affection
upon others; the ties round our heart are felt
with a more close endearment, and every little
tenderness we receive from the love of those
about us, teaches us the value of love. And
this is therefore among the consolations of ill-
health, that we are more susceptible to all
the kindlier emotions, and that we drink a
deeper and a sweeter pleasure from the attach-
ment of our friends. If, too, we become, as the
body progressively declines from the desire of
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 307
external pursuits, more devoted to intellectual
objects, new sources of delight are thus be-
stowed upon us. Books become more eloquent
of language, and their aspect grows welcome as
the face of some dear consoler. Perhaps no
epicure of the world's coarse allurement knows
that degree of deep and serene enjoyment with
which, shut up in our tranquil chambers, we
surround ourselves with the WISDOM, the
POETRY, the ROMANCE of past ages, and are
made free, by the Sybil of the world's know-
ledge, to the Elysium of departed souls. The
pain, or the fever, that from time to time re-
minds us of our clay, brings not perhaps more
frequent and embarrassing interruptions, than
the restlessness and eager passion which belong
to the flush of health. Contented to repose
the repose becomes more prodigal of dreams.
And there is another circumstance usually
attendant on ill-health. We live less for the
world we do not extend the circle of friendship
into the wide and distracting orbit of common ac-
quaintance we are thus less subject to ungenial
308 ON ILL HEALTH,
interruptions to vulgar humiliations to the
wear and tear of mind the harassment and the
vanity, that torture those who seek after the
"
gallery of painted pictures," and " the talk
where no love is." The gawd and the osten-
tation shrink into their true colours before the
eye which has been taught to look within. And
the pulses that have been calmed by pain, keep,
without much effort, to the even tenor of philo-
sophy. Thus ill-health may save us from many
disquietudes and errors from frequent mortifi-
cation and " the walking after the vain sha-
dow" Plato retired to his cave to be wise ;
sickness is often the moral cave, with its quiet,
its darkness, and its solitude, to the SOUL
I may add also, that he who has been taught
the precariousness of life, acquires a knowledge
of its value. He teaches himself to regard
Death with a quiet eye, and habit* gifts him
with a fortitude mightier than the stoicism of
the Porch. As the lamb is shorn so the wind
*
Exilia, tormenta, bella, niorbos, naufragia, medi-
tare, ut nullo sis malo, Tyro. Senec. Epist.
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 309
is tempered. Nor is the calm without moments
of mere animal ecstasy unknown to the rude
health, which, having never waned from its
vigour, is unconscious of the treasure it inherits.
What rapture in the first steps to recovery in
the buoyant intervals of release ! When the
wise simplicity of Hesiod would express the
overpowering joy of a bridegroom, in the flush
of conquest hastening to the first embraces of
his bride, he can compare him only to one
escaped from some painful disease, or from the
chains of a dungeon.* The release of pain is
the excess of transport. With what gratitude
we feel the first return of health the first bud-
ding forth of the new spring that has dawned
within us ! Or, if our disease admit not that
blessed regeneration, still it has its intervals and
reprieves :
moments, when the Mind springs up
as the lark to heaven, singing and rejoicing as
it bathes its plumage in the intoxicating air. So
that our state may be of habitual tranquillity,
and yet not dumb to raptures which have no
*
Hes. Scut. Here, line 42.
310 ON ILL HEALTH,
parallel in the monotony of more envied lives.
But I hold that the great counterbalancing gift
which the infirmity of the body, if
rightly mo-
ralized upon, hath the privilege to confer, is,
that the mind, left free to contemplation, natu-
rally prefers the high and the immortal to the
sensual and the low. As Astronomy took its
rise among the Chaldaean shepherds, whose con-
stant leisure upon their vast and level plains
enabled them to elevate their attention undi-
vided to the heavenly bodies, so the time left
to us for contemplation in our hours of sickness,
and our necessary disengagement from the things
of earth, tend to direct our thoughts to the
Stars, and impregnate us half unconsciously with
the Science of Heaven.
Thus while, as I have said, our affections be-
come more gentle, our souls also become more
noble, and our desires more pure. We learn
to think, with one of the most august of our
moralists, that " earth is an hospital, not an inn
a place to die, not live in." Our existence
becomes a great preparation for death, and the
AND ITS CONSOLATIONS. 311
monitor within us is constant, but with a sweet
and a cheering voice.
Such are the thoughts with which in the hour
of sickness I taught myself to regard what with
the vulgar is the greatest of human calamities !
It may be some consolation to those who have
suffered more bitterly than I have done, to feel
that, by calling in the powers of the mind, there
may be good ends and cheerful hopes wrought
out from the wasting of the body ; and that it is
only the darkness unconsidered and unexplored
which shapes the spectre, and appals us with
the fear.
THE LAW OF ARREST.
A TALE FROM FACTS.
VOL. I.
THE LAW OF ARREST.
A TALE FROM FACTS.
THE immediate interest which the proceedings
of the Legislature have attached to the existent
Law of Arrest, and its probable reform, induce
me to relate the following story.
Once upon a time there lived at Hamburgh a
certain merchant of the name of Meyer he was
a good little man ;
charitable to the poor, hos-
pitable to his friends, and so rich that he was
extremely respected, in spite of his good nature.
Among that part of his property which was
p2
316 THE LAW OF ARREST.
vested in other people's hands, and called
"
debts," was the sum of five hundred pounds
o\ved to him by the Captain of an English ves-
sel This debt had been so long contracted that
the worthy Meyer began to wish for a new in-
vestment of his capital He accordingly resolved
to take a trip to Portsmouth, in which town
Captain Jones was then residing, and take that
liberty which in my opinion should in a free
country never be permitted, viz. the liberty of
applying for his money.
Our worthy merchant one bright morning
found himself at Portsmouth ;
he was a stranger
to that town, but not altogether unacquainted
with the English language. He lost no time in
calling on Captain Jones.
" And vat ?" said he to a man whom he asked
to conduct him to the Captain's house,
" vat is
dat fine veshell yondare ?"
" She be the Royal Sally," replied the man,
" bound for Calcutta sails to-morrow ;
but
here 's
Captain Jones's house, Sir, and he '11 tell
you all about it"
THE LAW OF ARREST. 317
The merchant bowed, and knocked at the
door of a red-brick house door green brass
knocker. Captain Gregory Jones was a tall
man ;
he wore a blue jacket without skirts ;
he
had high cheek bones, small eyes, and his whole
appearance was eloquent of what is generally
termed the bluff honesty of the seaman.
Captain Gregory Jones seemed somewhat
disconcerted at seeing his friend he begged for
a little further time. The merchant looked
grave three years had already elapsed. The
Captain demurred the merchant pressed; the
Captain blustered and the merchant, growing
angry, began to threaten. All of a sudden
Captain Jones's manner changed he seemed to
recollect himself, begged pardon, said he could
easily procure the money, desired the merchant
to go back to his inn, and promised to call on
him in the course of the day. Mynheer Meyer
went home, and ordered an excellent dinner.
Time passed his friend came not. Meyer
grew impatient. He had just put on his hat
and was walking out, when the waiter threw
318 THE LAW OF ARREST.
open the door, and announced two gentle-
men.
"
Ah, dere comes de monish," thought Myn-
heer Meyer. The gentlemen approached the
taller one whipped out what seemed to Meyer a
receipt.
"
Ah, ver veil, I vill sign, ver veil !"
"
Signing, Sir, is useless; you will be kind
enough to accompany us. This is a warrant for
debt, Sir ; my house is
extremely comfortable
gentlemen of the first fashion go there quite
moderate, too, only a guinea a-day find your
own wine."
"I do no understand, Sare," said the
merchant, smiling amiably,
" I am ver veil off
here thank you
"
"
Come, come," said the other gentleman,
speaking for the first time,
" no parlavoo, Mon-
seer, you are our prisoner this is a warrant
for the sum of 10,000/. due to Captain Gregory
Jones."
The merchant stared the merchant frowned
but so it was. Captain Gregory Jones, who
owed Mynheer Meyer 500/., had arrested Myn-
THE LAW OF ARREST. 319
heer Meyer for 10,000/. ; for, as every one
knows, any man may arrest us who has con-
science enough to swear that we owe him money.
Where was Mynheer Meyer in a strange town
to get bail ? Mynheer Meyer went to prison.
" Dis be a strange vay of paying a man his
monish !" said Mynheer Meyer.
In order to wile away time, our merchant,
who was wonderfully social, scraped acquaint-
ance with some of his fellow-prisoners.
" Vat
be you in prishon for ?" said he to a stout re-
spectable-looking man who seemed in a violent
passion
" for vat crime ?"
"
I, Sir, crime !" quoth the prisoner ;
"
Sir, I
was going to Liverpool to vote at the election,
when a friend of the opposite candidate's had
me suddenly arrested for 2,000/. Before I get
bail the election will be over !"
" Vat 's that you tell me ? arrest you to pre-
vent you giving an honesht vote ? is that
justice ?"
"
Justice, no !" cried our friend,
" it 's the
Law of Arrest."
320 THE LAW OF ARREST.
" And vat be you in prishon for ?' said the
merchant, pityingly, to a thin cadaverous-look-
ing object, who ever and anon applied a hand-
kerchief to eyes that were wom with weeping.
" An attorney offered a friend of mine to dis-
count a bill, if he could obtain a few names to
indorse it /, Sir, indorsed it. The bill became
due, the next day the attorney arrested all
whose names were on the bill ; there were eight
of us, the law allows him to charge two guineas
for each ;
there are sixteen guineas, Sir, for the
lawyer but I, Sir alas !
my family will starve
before / shall be released. Sir, there are a set
of men called discounting attornies, who live
upon the profits of entrapping and arresting us
poor folk."
" Mine Gott ! but is dat justice ?"
" Alas !
No, Sir, it is the Law of Arrest."
"
But," said the merchant, turning round to
a lawyer, whom the Devil had deserted, and
who was now with the victims of his profession ;
"dey tell me, dat in Englant a man be called
innoshent till he be proved guilty ;
but here am
THE LAW OF ARREST.
I, who, because von carrion of a shailor, who
owesh me five hundred pounts, takes an oath
that 7 owe him ten thousand here am 1, on that
schoundrel's single oath, clapped up in a pri-
shon. Is this a man's being innoshent till he
is
proved guilty, Sare?"
"
Sir," said the lawyer primly,
"
you are
thinking of criminal cases ; but if a man be un-
fortunate enough to get into debt, that is quite a
different thing : we are harder to poverty than
we are to crime !"
"
But, mine Gott ! is dat justice ?"
" Justice !
pooh ! it 's the Law of Arrest," said
the lawyer, turning on his heel.
Our merchant was liberated ;
no one appeared
to prove the debt. He flew to a magistrate ; he
told his case ;
he implored justice against Cap-
tain Jones.
"
Captain Jones !" said the magistrate, taking
snuff;
"
Captain Gregory Jones, you mean?"
"
Ay, mine goot Sare yesh !"
" He set sail for Calcutta yesterday. He
commands the Royal Sally. He must evidently
p5
322 THE LAW OF ARREST.
have sworn this debt against you for the purpose
of getting rid of your claim, and silencing your
mouth till
you could catch him no longer.
He 's a clever fellow is
Gregory Jones !"
" De teufel !
but, Sare, ish dere no remedy
for de poor merchant ?"
"
Remedy !
oh, yes indictment for perjury."
" But vat use is dat ? You say he be gone
ten thousand miles off to Calcutta !"
" That 's
certainly against your indictment !"
" And cannot I get my monish ?"
" Not as I see."
" And 7 have been arreshted instead of him !"
" You have."
"
Sare, I have only von vord to say is dat
justice ?'
" That I can't say, Mynheer Meyer, but it is
certainly the Law of Arrest," answered the ma-
gistrate ;
and he bowed the merchant out of the
room.
ON SATIETY.
ON SATIETY.
MORALISTS are wrong when they preach indiscri-
minately against Satiety and denounce the sated.
There is a species of satiety which is productive
of wisdom. When Pleasure palls, Philosophy
begins. I doubt whether men ever thoroughly
attain to knowledge of the world, until they have
gone through its attractions and allurements.
Experience is not acquired by the spectator of
life, but by its actor. It was not by contemplating
the fortunes of others, but by the remembrance
of his own, that the wisest of Mortals felt that
" All was vanity." A true and practical philo-
326 ON SATIETY.
sophy, not of books alone, but of mankind, is
acquired by the passions as well as by the rea-
son. The Temple of the Science is approached
by the garden as well as by the desert and a
healing spirit is distilled from the rose-leaves
which withered in our hand.
A certain sentiment of satiety, of the vanity of
human pleasures, of the labor ineptiarum, of the
nothingness of trite and vulgar occupations, is
often the best preparation to that sober yet ele-
vated view of the ends of life, which is Philoso-
phy. As many have blest the bed of sickness on
which they had leisure to contemplate their past
existence, and to form an improved chart of the
future voyage so there is a sickness of the soul,
when exhaustion itself is
salutary, and out of
the languor and the tedium we extract the seeds
of the moral regeneration. Much of what is
most indulgent in Morals, much of what is most
tender and profound in Poetry, have come from
a sated spirit The disappointments of an en-
thusiastic and fervent heart have great teach-
ing in their pathos. As the first converts to the
ON SATIETY. 327
gospel were amongst the unfortunate and the
erring so the men who have known most the
fallacies of our human nature, are perhaps those
the most inclined to foster the aspirations of the
spiritual. To the one Faust who found a com-
rade in the Fiend, there are a thousand who are
visited by the Angel.
The more civilized, the more refined, be-
comes the period in which we are cast, the
more are we subject to satiety
" That weariness of all
We meet, or feel, or hear, or see."
The even road of existence, the routine of no-
things, the smooth and silken indolence, which
is destined to those amongst us who, wealthy
and well-born, have no occupation in life but
the effort to live at ease, produce on the subject
the same royalty of discontent that was once
the attribute of a king. In a free and a pros-
perous country, all who are rich and idle are
as kings. We have the same splendid mono-
tony and unvarying spectacle of repeated
328 ON SATIETY.
pageants of which the victims .of a court com-
plain. All society has become a court, and we
pass our lives like Madame de Maintenon, in
seeking to amuse those who cannot be amused,
or like Louis XIV., in seeking to be amused by
those who cannot amuse us. Satiety is, there-
fore, the common and catholic curse of the idle
portion of a highly civilized country. And the
inequalities of life are fittingly adjusted. For
those who are excluded from pleasure in the
one extreme, there are those who are incapable
of pleasure in the other. The fogs gather
dull and cheerless over the base of the moun-
tain, but the air at the summit exhausts and
withers.
Yet the poor have their satiety no less than
the wealthy the satiety of toil and the con-
viction of its hopelessness.
" Picture to your-
self," wrote a mechanic once to me,
" a man,
sensible that he is made for something better
than to labour and to die, cursed with a desire
of knowledge, while occupied only with the
task to live, drudging on from year to year,
ON SATIETY. 329
to render himself above the necessity of drud-
gery; to feel his soul out of the clutches of
want, and enabled to indulge at ease in
the luxury of becoming better and wiser
picture to yourself such a man, with such an
ambition, finding every effort in vain, seeing
that the utmost he can do is to provide for the
day, and so from day to day to live battling
against the morrow. With what heart can he
give himself up at night to unproductive tasks.
Scarce is he lost for a moment, amidst the won-
ders of knowledge for the first time presented
to him, ere the voice of his children disturbs
and brings him back to the world, the debt
unpaid the bill discredited the demands upon
the Saturday's wages. O, Sir, in such moments,
none can feel how great is our disgust at life,
how jaded and how weary we feel ;
we recoil
alike from amusement and knowledge we sicken
at the doom to which we are compelled we are
as weary of the sun as the idlest rich man in
the land we share his prerogative of satiety,
and long for the rest in the green bed where
330 ON SATIETY.
our forefathers sleep, released for ever from the
tooth of unrelenting cares."
The writer of this was a poet let me hope
that there are not many of his order condemned
with him to a spirit out of harmony with its lot.
Yet as knowledge widens its circle, the number
will increase, and if our social system is to remain
always the same, I doubt whether the desire of
knowledge, which is the desire of leisure, will
be a blessing to those who are everlastingly
condemned to toil.
But the satiety of the rich has its cure in what
is the very curse of the poor. Their satiety is
from indolence, and its cure is action. Satiety
with them is chiefly the offspring of a restless
imagination and a stagnant intellect. Their
minds are employed on trifles, in which their
feelings cease to take an interest. It is not the
frivolous who feel satiety, it is a better order of
spirits fated to have no other occupation than
frivolities. The French memoir writers, who
evince so much talent wasted away in a life of
trifles, present the most melancholy pictures we
ON SATIETY. 331
possess of satiety and of the more gloomy wis-
dom of apathy in which it sometimes ends. The
flowers of the heart run to seed. Madame
D'Epinay has expressed this briefly and beauti-
fully
" Le coeur se blase, les ressorts se brisent,
et Ton finit, je crois, par n'etre plus sensible a
rien."
Oh, that fearful prostration of the mind that
torpor of the affections, that utter hopeless indif-
ference to all things
" Full little can he tell who hath not tried
What hell it is !"
To rise and see through the long day no object
that can interest, no pleasure that can amuse,
with a heart perpetually craving excitement to
pass mechanically through the round of unex-
citable occupations to make an enemy of Time
to count the moments of his march to be
his captive in the prison-house to foresee no
delivery but death to be a machine and not a
man, having no self-will and no emotion
wound up from day to day things in a dream,
332 ON SATIETY.
in which we act involuntarily feeling the
best part of us locked up and lifeless, and
that which is active, a puppet to a power that
fools us with its objectless fancies passive but
not at rest ;
the deep and crushing melancholy
of such a state, let no happier being venture
to despise.
It is usually after some sudden pause in the
passions that we are thus afflicted. The winds
drop, and the leaf they whirled aloft rots upon
the ground. It is the dread close of disappoint-
ed love, or of baffled ambition. Who ever paint-
ed love when it discovers the worthlessness of
its object and retreats gloomily into itself, that
has not painted, even to the hackneying of the
picture, the weariness that succeeds the stale
and unprofitable uses to which all the world
seems abruptly and barrenly resolved ? So with
ambition the retirement of a statesman before
his time, is
perhaps the least enviable repose
that his enemies could inflict on him. " Da-
mien's bed of steel
"
is a luxury to the bed of
withered laurels; the gloomy exile of Swift,
ON SATIETY. 333
fretting his heart out,
" a rat in a cage ;" the
spectre of Olivares the petulance of Napoleon
wrestling with his gaoler upon a fashion in
tea-cups what mournful parodies of the dig-
nity of human honours ! Between the past
glory and the posthumous renown how awful
an interlude ! The unwilling rest to a long
continued excitement, is a solitude from which
the fiends might recoil !
But happy those on whom the curse of satiety
falls
early, and before the heart has exhausted its
resources; when we can yet contend against
the lethargy, ere it becomes a habit, and allow
satiety to extend only to the trifles of life, and
not to its great objects ; when we are wearied
only of the lighter pleasures, and can turn to
the more grave pursuits; and the discontent of
the Imagination is the spur to the Intellect,
Satiety is the heritage of the Heart, not of the
Reason: and the Reason properly invoked pos-
sesses in itself the genii to dissolve the charm,
and awake the sleeper. For he alone, who
thoroughly convinces himself that he has duties
334 ON SATIETY.
to perform that his centre of being is in the
world and not in himself can conquer the ego-
tisms of weariness. The objects confined to self
becoming worn out and wearisome, he may find
new and inexhaustible objects in the relations
that he holds to others. Duty has plea-
sures which know no satiety. The weariness
then known and thus removed, begets the
philosophy I referred to in the commencement
of these remarks. For wisdom is the true phoanix,
and never rises but from the ashes of a former
existence of the mind. Then perhaps, too, as
we learn a proper estimate of the pleasures of
this life, we learn also from those yearnings of
our more subtile and tender soul, never satisfied
below, a fresh evidence of our ultimate desti-
nies. A consolation which Preacher and Poet
have often deduced from the weariness of our
disappointments contending that our perpetual
desire for something unattainable here, be-
tokens and prophesies a possession in the ob-
jects of a hereafter so that life itself is but one
expectation of eternity. As birds, born in a
ON SATIETY. 335
cage from which they had never known release,
would still flutter against the bars, and, in the
instinct of their unconquered nature, long for
the untried and pathless air which they behold
through their narrow grating ; so, pent in our
cage of clay the diviner instinct is not dead
within us ; at times we sicken with indistinct
and undefinable apprehensions of a more noble
birthright and the soul feels stirringly that its
wings, which it doth but bruise in its dungeon-
tenement, were designed by the Creator who
shapeth all things to their uses for the enjoy-
ment of the royalties of Heaven.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
LONDON:
IBOTSON AND PALMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, SXHAND.
THE STUDENT
A SERIES OF PAPERS,
BY THE AUTHOR OK
EUGENE ARAM," " ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH/
&c. &c.
" The situation of the most enchanted enthusiast is preferable to that
m' a philosopher who, from continual apprehensions of being mistaken, at
length dares neither affirm nor deny any thing."
WlELAND'S ACVIHOX.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
SAUNDERS AND OTLEY, CONDUIT STREET.
1835.
<?&
vu
si
A ^^
X/.3-
LONDON :
IBOTSON AND PAT,MtR, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND.
CONTENTS
PAGE
Ox INFIDELITY IN LOVE . . . .1
Fl-HO-TI J OR, THE PLEASURES OF REPUTATON. A CHINESE
TALE . . . . . . . 13
Ox THE KNOWLEDGE OF.THE WORLD IN MEN AND BOOKS 35
THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM, THE MAGICIAN . . 55
ON THE PASSION FOR THE UNIVERSAL . . . 95
FERDINAND FITZROY ; OB, Too HANDSOME FOR ANY
THING . .... 109
VI CONTENTS.
THE NEW PH.EDO ; OR, CONVERSATIONS ON THINGS II I'M AN
AND DIVINE, WITH ONE CONDEMNED . . . 123
CONVERSATION THE FIRST.
The universality of Evil in the World Is no less visible in the lesser
creatures than in man The hope of perfectibility Change in the
temperament of L What is pleasant when recalled is often weari-
some when acted Love The influence of Custom on the connubial
state Society exacts in proportion as it is prepared to admire
L "s sadness Distinctions between Wit and Humour Love of
conversational argument less in vogue than formerly Our inability
to conceive the nature of our happiness hereafter Anecdote of
Fnseli Plato Quotation from Lord Herbert of Cherbury The sen-
timent that our faculties cannot content themselves in this life, visible
in the works of genius This sentiment more common in the English
than the Continental Poets The spirituality of Goethe's genius
Observations in the Wilhelm Meister Scott's poetry greater than
his prose The painter Bl.tke and his Illustrations of the Night
Thoughts Young His gloom spreads only over this world, without
darkening the next . . 130
CONVERSATION THE SECOND.
*s increase of illness Remarks on a passage in Bacon Advantages
in the belief of immortality An idea in the last Conversation followed
out A characteristic of the Sublime Feelings in one dying at the
restlessness of life around 157
CONVERSATION THE THIRD.
The French worldly philosophers The first step in wisdom is to learn
to think, no matter how Thought corrects itself Brilliant writers
lett dangerous than dull ones Why Faults of certain philosophers
L , the respectful affection he excites The heart turns from
death Passage in Bolingbroke Private life docs not afford a vent
CONTENTS. Vll
for all our susceptibilities A touching thought in Milton's Latin
Poems Remarks on Byron, and the characteristics of a true poet /
for the present day Portrait of a hero in the service of truth I7o
CONVERSATION THE FOURTH.
Containing L 's history i 186
/CONVERSATION THE FIFTH.
The history of L continued in his intellectual pursuits Helvetius
His fault; and merits The Materialists The Philosophy of Faith. 233
CONVERSATION THE SIXTH.
The history concluded Progress from Morals to History A state of
doubt most favourable to the study of the Past Philosophical
historians dangerous Hume and Gibbon The advantages of Tacitus
and Polybius in actual experience Bolingbroke the first English
Utilitarian History the accuser of mankind The Greeks Portrait
of Themistocles Patriotism and Philanthropj The errors of old
The divrhe hope of the future 243
CONVERSATION THE SEVENTH.
Description of an English landscape The animal enjoyment of life
Solitary persons the least repining Cowley on the town and
country L 's mental progress from history to works of imagina-
tion He is inspired to emulation, not by the fame of geninr, but by
the luxury of composition Genius is peculiarly susceptible of enjoy- ^
ment It even enjoys sadness L 's studies interrupted . 203
CONVERSATION THE EIGHTH.
L 's occasional restlessness at the thought of death Anecdote of the
last hours of a man unwilling to die L 's gratitude that Ihe
Vlll CONTENTS.
yradual decay of his powers prepares him for his end Criticism on
the "
Night Thoughts" Survey of contemporaneous poetry Re-
markable distinction between the blank verse and rhyme of the same
period The former more English Peculiarities of the old English t/
Muse Its quaint love of classical allusion Its mixture of the grave
and gay Its minuteness in rural description, &c. Pope compared
with Thompson; Akenside with Johnson Young His tendency to
the ambitious The views of life more gloomy in the Greek than the
Roman poets The English Muse rather adopts those of the former
Young imbued with our earlier poetry The sublimest poets abound
with the homeliest images And, in modern literature, also with the
most exaggerated conceits Young therefore justified by their ex-
ample in his homeliness and quaintness His sublime power of per-
sonificationHis terseness Difference between the rank of the poet
and that of the poem The grandeur of the conception of the Night
Thoughts as compared with Childe Harold and other didactic poems
The poet's conception is sustained throughout The wisdom of bis
maxims The beauty of his diction Concluding remarks on Young's
character Apology for retailing L 's criticisms . . 279
CONVERSATION THE NINTH.
The Memory becomes more acute as we approach death L 's obser-
vations on the saying that 'life is a jest' The vanity of ambition
Our errors arise from our desire to be greater than we are Thoughts
on Superstition The early astrologers Philanthropy The fear of
assisting in changes of which the good to a future generation may
not compensate the evil to the present Contrast between the tran-
quil lives of men of genius and the revolutions their works effect
The hope of intercourse with great minds in a future state The
sanctity of the grave the Phsedo of Plato The picture of the last
moments of Socrates The unsatisfactory arguments of the Heathen
lor the immortality of the sonl Revealed religion has led men more
logically to the arguments drawn from natural theology Disbelief
involves us in greater difficulties than faith Our doubts do not dis- \/
hearten us if we once believe in God L 's last hours His farewell
to Nature His death . . , 325
ON
INFIDELITY IN LOVE,
VOL. II.
ON
INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
To the vulgar there is but one infidelity that
which, in woman at least, can never be expiated
or forgiven. They know not the thousand
shades in which change disguises itself they
trace not the fearful progress of the alienation
of the heart. But to those who truly and
deeply love, there is an infidelity with which the
person has no share. Like ingratitude, it is
punished by no laws. We are powerless to
avenge ourselves.
When two persons are united by affection, and
the love of the one survives that of the other,
who can measure the anguish of the unfortunate
B 2
4 INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
who watches the extinction of a light which no-
thing can reillumine ! It mostly happens too,
that the first discovery is sudden. There is a
deep trustfulness in a loving heart ; it is blind
to the gradual decrease of sympathy its divine
charity attributes the absent eye, the chilling
word, to a thousand causes, save the true one ;
care illness some worldly trouble some en-
grossing thought; and (poor fool that it is !) en-
deavours by additional tenderness, to compen-
sate for the pain that is not of its own causing.
Alas, the time has come, when it can no longer
compensate ! It hath ceased to be the all-in-all
to its cruel partner. Custom has brought its in-
variable curse and indifference gathers round
the place in which we had garnered up our souL
At length the appalling light breaks upon us.
We discover we are no longer loved. And what
remedy have we ? None ! Our first, our na-
tural feeling, is resentment. We are conscious
of treachery; this ungrateful heart that has
fallen from us, how have we prized and trea-
sured it how have we sought to shield it from
INFIDELITY IN LOVE. 5
every arrow how have we pleased ourselves, in
solitude and in absence, with yearning thoughts
of its faith and beauty ;
no wit is ours no more !
Then we break into wild reproaches we be-
come exacting we watch every look we guage
every action we are unfortunate we weary
we offend. These, our agonies our impetuous
bursts of passion our ironical and bitter taunts,
to which we half expect, as heretofore, to hear
the soft word that turneth away wrath these
only expedite the fatal hour; they are new
crimes in us ;
the very proofs of our bitter love
are treasured and repeated as reasons why we
should be loved no more : as if without a throe,
without a murmur, we could resign ourselves to
so great a loss. Alas it is with fierce convul-
sions that the temple is rent in twain, and we
hear the Divinity depart. Sometimes we stand
in silence, and with a full heart, gazing upon
those hard cold eyes which never again can melt
in tenderness upon us. And our silence is dumb
its
eloquence is gone. We are no longer un-
derstood. We long to die in order to be avenged.
6 INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
We half pray for some great misfortune, some
agonizing illness, that it may bring to us our
soother and our nurse. We say,
" In affliction
or in sickness it could not thus desert us." We
are mistaken. We are shelterless the roof has
been taken from our heads we are exposed to
any and every storm. Then comes a sharp and
dread sentiment of loneliness and insecurity.
We are left weak children in the dark. We
are bereft more irrevocably than by death ;
for
will even the Hereafter, that unites the happy
dead that die lovingly, restore the love that has
perished, ere life be dim ?
What shall we do ? We have accustomed our-
selves to love and to be loved. Can we turn to
new ties, and seek in another that which is ex-
tinct in one ? How often is such a resource in
vain ! Have we not given to this the treacher-
ous and the false friend the best years of
our life the youth of our hearts the flower
of our affections? Did we not yield up the
harvest? how little is there left for another to
glean ! This makes the crime of the moral in-
INFIDELITY IN LOVE. /
fidelity. The one who takes away from us his
or her love, takes from us also the love of all
else. We have no longer, perhaps, the youth
and the attractions to engage affection. Once
we might have chosen out of the world
now the time is past. Who shall love us in our
sear and yellow leaf, as in that time, when we
had most the qualities that win love ? It was
a beautiful sentiment of one whom her lord
proposed to put away
" Give me, then, back,"
said she,
" that which I brought to you." And
the man answered, in his vulgar coarseness of
soul,
" Your fortune shall return to you."
" I
thought not of fortune," said the lady ;
"
give me
back my real wealth give me back my beauty
and my youth give me back the virginity of
soul give me back the cheerful mind, and the
heart that had never been disappointed."
Yes : it is of these that the unfaithful rob us,
when they dismiss us back upon the world,
and tell us with a bitter mockery to form
new ties. In proportion to the time that we
have been faithful in proportion to the feel-
8 INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
ings we have sacrificed in proportion to the
wealth of soul of affection, of devotion, that
we have consumed, are we shut out from the
possibility of atonement elsewhere. But this is
not all the other occupations of the world are
suddenly made stale and barren to us ! the daily
avocations of Me the common pleasures the
social diversions so tame in themselves, had had
their charm when we could share, and talk over,
them with another. It was sympathy which
made them sweet the sympathy withdrawn they
are nothing to us worse than nothing. The
talk has become the tinkling cymbal, and society
the gallery of pictures. Ambition, toil, the great
aims of life even the.se cease abruptly to excite.
What, in the first
place, made labour grateful
and ambition dear ? Was it not the hope that
their rewards would be reflected upon another
self? And now there is no other self. And,
in the second place, (and this is a newer consi-
deration,) does it not require a certain calmness
and freedom of mind for great efforts? Per-
suaded of the possession of what most we value,
INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
we can look abroad with cheerfulness and hope ;
the consciousness of a treasure inexhaus-
tible by external failures, makes us specula-
tive and bold. Now, all things are coloured by
our despondency; our self-esteem that neces-
sary incentive to glory is humbled and abased.
Our pride has received a jarring and bitter
shock. We no longer feel that we are equal to
stern exertion. We wonder at what we have
dared before. And therefore it is, that when
Othello believes himself betrayed, the occu-
pations of his whole life
suddenly become bur-
thensome and abhorred.
"
Farewell," he saith,
" Farewell the tranquil mind ! farewell content !"
And then, as the necessary but unconscious
link in the chain of thought, he continues at
once
" Farewell the plumed troop, and the big wars,
That make ambition virtue !
oh, farewell !
Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
B5
10 INFIDELITY IN LOVE.
The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife,
The royal banner ; and all quality,
Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war !
Farewell ! Othello's occupation's gone."
But there is another and a more permanent
result from this bitter treason. Our trustfulness
in human nature is diminished. We are no
longer the credulous enthusiasts of Good. The
pillars of the moral world seem shaken. We be-
lieve, we hope, no more from the faith of others.
If the one whom we so worshipped, and so
served who knew us in our best years to
whom we have offered countless, daily offerings
whom we put in our heart of hearts against
whom if a world hinted, we had braved a world
if this one has deserted us, who then shall be
faithful?
At length, we begin to reconcile ourselves to
the worst ; gradually we gather the moss of our
feelings from this heart which has become to us
as stone. Our pride hardens down into indiffer-
ence. Ceasing to be loved, we cease to love.
Seasons may roll
away, all other feelings ebb
INFIDELITY IN LOVE. 11
and flow. Ambition may change into apathy
generosity may sour into avarice we may for-
get the enmities of years we may make friends
of foes ; but the love we have lost is never re-
newed. On that dread vacuum of the breast
the temple and the garden rise no more : that
feeling, be it hatred, be it scorn, be it indiffer-
ence, which replaces love, endures to the last.
And, altered for ever to the one how many of
us are altered for ever to the world ;
neither so
cheerful, nor so kind, nor so active in good, nor
so incredulous of evil as we were before ! The
Deluge of Passion has rolled back the Earth is
green again. But we are in a new world. And
the New World is but the sepulchre of the Old.
FI-HO-TI ;
THE PLEASURES OF REPUTATION.
A CHINESE TALE.
FI-HO-TI ;
*
OR,
THE PLEASURES OF REPUTATION.
FI-HO-TI was considered a young man of talents ;
he led, in Pekin, a happy and comfortable life.
In the prime of youth, of a highly-respectable
family, and enjoying a most agreeable compe-
tence, he was exceedingly popular among the
gentlemen whom he entertained at his board,
and the ladies who thought he might propose.
Although the Chinese are not generally sociable,
Fi-ho-ti had ventured to set the fashion of
giving entertainments, in which ceremony was
banished for mirth. All the pleasures of life
16 FI-HO-TI.
were at his command : he drank, though without
excess, the cup of enjoyment; ate, laughed,
and loved his fill No man in Pekin was more
awake during the day, or enjoyed a serener
slumber during the night
'In an evil hour, it so happened that Fi-ho-ti
discovered that he possessed the talents we have
referred to. A philosopher, who, being also
his uncle, had the double right, both of philo-
sophy and relationship, to say every thing un-
pleasant to him, took it into his head to be
very indignant at the happy life which Fi-ho-ti
so peacefully enjoyed.
Accordingly, one beautiful morning he visited
our young Chin-Epicurean. He found him in
his summer-house, stretched on luxurious
cushions, quaffing the most delicious tea, in
the finest little porcelain cups imaginable, read-
ing a Chinese novel, and enlivening the study,
from time to time, by a light conversation with
a young lady, who had come to visit him.
Our philosopher was amazingly shocked at
the prospect of so much comfort. Nothing
FI-HO-TI. 17
could be more unphilosophical ;
for the duty of
Philosophy being to charm us with life, she is
anxious, in the first place, to make it a burden
to us. The goddess is enamoured of patience,
but indignant at pleasure.
Our sage was a man very much disliked and
very much respected. Fi-ho-ti rose from his
cushions, a little ashamed of being detected in
so agreeable an indolence, and reminded for the
first time, of the maxims of Chinese morality,
which hold it
highly improper for a gentleman
to be seen with a lady. The novel fell from his
hand; and the young lady, frightened at the
long beard and the long nails of the philosopher,
would have run away, if her feet would have
allowed her ; as it was, she summoned her at-
tendants, and hastened to complain to her
friends of the manner in which the pleasantest
tctes-a-tctes could be spoilt, when young men
were so unfortunate as to have philosophers for
uncles.
The Mandarin, for Fi-ho-ti's visiter enjoyed
no less a dignity, and was entitled to wear a
18 FI-HO-TI.
blue globe in his cap,* seeing the coast clear,
hemmed three times, and commenced his avun-
cular admonitions.
" Are you not ashamed, young man," said he,
" of the life that you lead ? are you not
ashamed to be so indolent and so happy ? You
possess talents ; you are in the prime of youth,
you have already attained the rank of Keu-jin ;f
are you deaf to the noble voice of ambition ?
Your country calls upon you for exertion, seek
to distinguish your name, recollect the exam-
ple of Confucius, give yourself up to study,
be wise and be great."
Much more to this effect spoke the Man-
darin, for he loved to hear himself talk ; and,
like all men privileged to give advice, he fan-
cied that he was wonderfully eloquent. In
this instance, his vanity did not deceive him;
for it was the vanity of another that he address-
*
The distinction of Mandarins of the third and
fourth order.
t A collegiate grade which renders those who attain
it
eligible to offices of state.
FI-HO-TI. 19
ed. Fi-ho-ti was moved ;
he felt he had been
very foolish to be happy so long. Visions of
disquietude and fame floated before him : he
listened with attention to the exhortations of the
philosopher ; he resolved to distinguish himself,
and to be wise.
The Mandarin was charmed with the success
of his visit ;
it was a great triumph to disturb so
much enjoyment. He went home, and com-
menced a tract upon the advantages of philo-
sophy. .
Every one knows that in China learning alone
is the passport to the offices of state: What
rank and fortune are in other countries, learning
is in the Celestial Empire. Fi-ho-ti surrendered
himself to Knowledge. He retired to a solitary
cavern, near upon Kai-fon-gu; he filled his re-
treat with books and instruments of science ;
he
renounced all social intercourse ;
the herbs of
the plain and the water of the spring sufficed
the tastes hitherto accustomed to the most deli-
cious viands of Pekin. Forgetful of love and of
pleasure, he consigned three of the fairest years
20 FI-HO-TI.
of his existence to uninterrupted labour. He
instructed himself he imagined he was capable
of instructing others.
Fired with increasing ambition, our student
returned to Pekin. He composed a work, which,
though light and witty enough to charm the
gay, was the origin of a new school of philoso-
phy. It was at once bold and polished ; and the
oldest Mandarin or the youngest beauty of
Pekin could equally appreciate and enjoy it. In
one word, Fi-ho-ti's book became the rage, Fi-
ho-ti was the author of his day.
Delighted by the novelty of literary applause,
our young student more than ever resigned him-
self to literary pursuits. He wrote again, and
again succeeded; all the world declared that
Fi-ho-ti had established his reputation, and he
obtained the dazzling distinction of Bin-sze.
Was Fi-ho-ti the happier for his reputation ?
You shall judge.
He went to call upon his uncle, the Manda-
rin. He imagined the Mandarin would be de-
lighted to find the success of his admonitions.
FI-HO-TI. 21
The philosopher received him with a frigid em-
barrassment. He talked of the weather and the
Emperor, the last pagoda and the new fashion
in tea-cups : he said not a word about his ne-
phew's books. Fi-ho-ti was piqued; he intro-
duced the subject of his own accord.
" Ah !" said the philosopher, drily,
" I under-
stand you have written something that pleases
the women; no doubt you will grow solid as
your judgment increases. But, to return to the
tea-cups
"
Fi-ho-ti was chagrined : he had lost the affec-
tion of his learned uncle for ever ;
for he was
now considered to be more learned than his
uncle himself. The common mortification in
success is to find that your own family usually
hate you for it.
"
My uncle no longer loves
me," thought he, as he re-entered his palanquin.
" This is a misfortune." Alas ! it was the
effect of REPUTATION !
The heart of Fi-ho-ti was naturally kind
and genial; though the thirst of pleasure was
cooled in his veins, he still cherished the social
2*2 FI-HO-TI.
desires of friendship. He summoned once more
around him the comrades of his youth : he fan-
cied they, at least, would be delighted to find
their friend not unworthy of their affection. He
received them with open arms ; they returned
his greeting with shyness, and an awkward af-
fectation of sympathy; their conversation no
longer flowed freely they were afraid of com-
mitting themselves before so clever a man;
they felt they were no longer with an equal, and
yet they refused to acknowledge a superior. Fi-
ho-ti perceived, with indescribable grief, that a
wall had grown up between himself and the com-
panions of past years ;
their pursuits, their feel-
ings, were no longer the same. They were not
proud of his success they were jealous ; the
friends of his youth were the critics of his
manhood.
"
This, too, is a misfortune," thought Fi-ho-ti,
ag he threw himself at night upon his couch.
Very likely : it was the effect of REPUTATION !
" But if the old friends are no more, I will
gain new," thought the student " Men of the
FI-HO-TI. 23
same pursuits will have the same sympathies. I
aspire to be a sage : I will court the friendship
of sages."
This was a notable idea of Fi-ho-ti's. He
surrounded himself with the authors, the wits,
and the wise men of Pekin. They ate his
dinners, they made him read their manuscripts
(and a bad handwriting in Chinese is no
trifle !) they told him he was a wonderful ge-
nius, and they abused him anonymously every
week in the Pekin journals ;
for China is
per-
haps the only despotism in the world in which
the press is entirely free. The heart of Fi-ho-ti,
yearning after friendship, found it impossible to
expect a single friend amongst the literati of
China ; they were all too much engrossed with
themselves to dream of affection for another.
They had no talk no thought no feeling
except that which expressed love for their own
books, and hatred for the books of their con-
temporaries.
One day Fi-ho-ti had the misfortune to break
his leg. The most intimate of his acquaintance
24 FI-HO-TI.
among the literati found him stretched oh his
couch, having just undergone the operation of
setting, which a French surgeon had charitably
performed on him.
" Ah !" said the author,
" how very unlucky
how very unfortunate !"
" You are extremely obliging," said Fi-ho-ti,
touched by his visitor's evident emotion.
"
Yes, it is particularly unlucky that your ac-
cident should occur just at this moment ;
for I
wanted to consult you about this passage in my
new book before it is published to-morrow !"
The broken leg of his friend seemed to the
author only as an interruption to the pleasure of
reading his own works.
But, above all, Fi-ho-ti found it
impossible to
trust men who gave the worst possible character
of each other. If you believed the literati them-
selves, so envious, malignant, worthless, un-
principled a set of men as the literati of Pekin
never were created !
Every new acquaintance
he made told him an anecdote of an old ac-
quaintance which made his hair stand on end.
FI-HO-TI. 25
Fi-ho-ti began to be alarmed. He contracted
more and more the circle of his society; and
resolved to renounce the notion of friendship
amongst men of similar pursuits.
Even in the remotest provinces of the
Celestial Empire, the writings of Fi-ho-ti were
greatly approved. The gentlemen quoted him
at their tea, and the ladies wondered whether
he was good-looking; but this applause this
interest that he inspired never reached the ears
of Fi-ho-ti. He beheld not the smiles he called
forth by his wit, nor the tears he excited by his
pathos: all that he saw of the effects of his
reputation was in the abuse he received in the
Pekin journals ;
he there read, every week and
every month, that he was but a very poor sort
of creature. One journal called him a fool,
another a wretch ;
a third seriously deposed that
he was hump-backed ;
a fourth that none of his
sentiments could be found in the works of Con-
fucius. In Pekin, any insinuation of originality
is considered as a suspicion of the most unpar-
donable guilt. Other journals, indeed, did not
VOL. II. C
26 FI-HO-TI.
so much abuse as misrepresent him. He found
his doctrines twisted into all manner of shapes.
He could not defend them for it is not dignified
to reply to all the Pekin journals ;
but he was
assured by his flatterers that truth would ulti-
mately prevail, and posterity do him justice.
"Alas !" thought Fi-ho-ti,
" am I to be deemed
a culprit all my life, in order that I may be ac-
quitted after death ? Is there no justice for me
until I am past the power of malice? Surely
this is a misfortune !" Very likely ;
it was the
necessary consequence of REPUTATION !
Fi-ho-ti now began to perceive that the
desire of fame was a chimera. He was yet
credulous enough to follow another chimera,
equally fallacious. He said to himself " It was
poor and vain in me to desire to shine. Let me
raise my heart to a more noble ambition ; let
me desire only to instruct others."
Fraught with this lofty notion, Fi-ho-ti now
conceived a more solid and a graver habit of
mind: he became rigidly conscientious in the
composition of his works. He no longer desired
FI-HO-TI. 27
to write what was brilliant, but to discover what
was true. He erased, without mercy, the most
lively images the most sparkling aphorisms
if even a doubt of their moral utility crossed
his mind. He wasted two additional years of
the short summer of youth : he gave the fruits
of his labour to the world in a book of the most
elaborate research, the only object of which was
to enlighten his countrymen. "This, at least,
they cannot abuse," thought he, when he finished
the last line. Ah ! how much was he mis-
taken !
Doubtless, in other countries the public are
remarkably grateful to any author for correcting
their prejudices and combating their foibles ;
but
in China, attack one orthodox error, prove to
the people that you wish to elevate and improve
them, and renounce all
happiness, all tran-
quillity, for the rest of your life !
Fi-ho-ti's book was received with the most
frigid neglect by the philosophers, First, be-
cause the Pekin philosophers are visionaries,
and it did not build a system upon visions, and
c2
28 FI-HOTI.
secondly, because of Fi-ho-ti himself they were
exceedingly jealous. But from his old friends,
the journalists of Pekin O Fo ! with what
invective, what calumny, what abuse it was
honoured ! He had sought to be the friend of
his race, he was stigmatized as the direst of
its enemies. He was accused of all manner of
secret designs ; the painted slippers of the Man-
darins were in danger : and he had evidently in-
tended to muffle all the bells of the grand pa-
goda ! Alas ! let no man wish to be a saint
unless he is
prepared to be a martyr.
" Is this injustice ?" cried Fi-ho-ti to his flat-
terers. "
No," said they, with one voice ;
"
No,
Fi-ho-ti, it is REPUTATION !"
Thoroughly disgusted with his ambition, Fi-
ho-ti now resolved to resign himself once more
to pleasure. Again he heard music, and again
he feasted and made love. In vain ! the zest,
the appetite was gone. The sterner pursuits
he had cultivated of late years had rendered his
mind incapable of appreciating the luxuries of
frivolity. He had opened a gulf between him-
FI-HOTI. 29
self and his youth ;
his heart could be young
no more.
" One faithful breast shall console me for all,"
thought he. "
Yang-y-se is beautiful and smiles
upon me ;
I will woo and win her."
Fi-ho-ti surrendered his whole soul to the new
passion he had conceived. Yang-y-se listened
to him favourably. He could not complain of
cruelty : he fancied himself beloved. With the
generous and unselfish ardour that belonged to
his early character, and which in China is so
especially uncommon, he devoted his future years
to he lavished the treasure of his affections
upon the object of his love. For some weeks
he enjoyed a dream of delight : he woke from it
too soon. A rival beauty was willing to attach
to herself the wealthy and generous Fi-ho-ti.
"
Why," said she, one day,
"
why do you throw
yourself away upon Yang-y-se ? Do you fancy
she loves you ? You are mistaken : she has no
heart ;
it is
only her vanity that makes her wil-
ling to admit you as her slave." Fi-ho-ti was in-
credulous and indignant.
" Read this letter,"
30 FI-HO-TI.
said the rival beauty.
"
Yang-y-se wrote it to
me but the other day."
Fi-ho-ti read as follows :
" We had a charming supper with the gay
author last night, and wished much for you.
You need not rally me on my affection for him ;
I do not love him, but I am pleased to command
his attentions ;
in a word, my vanity is flattered
with the notion of chaining to myself one of the
most distinguished persons in Pekin. But
love ah ! that is
quite another thing."
Fi-ho-ti's eyes were now thoroughly opened.
He recalled a thousand little instances which
had proved that Yang-y-se had been only in love
with his celebrity.
He saw at once the great curse of distinction.
Be renowned, and you can never be loved for
yourself ! As you are hated not for your vices,
but your success, so are you loved not for your
talents, but their fame. A man who has repu-
tation is like a tower whose height is estimated
by the length of its shadow. The sensitive and
high-wrought mind of Fi-ho-ti now gave way to
FI-HO-TI. 31
a gloomy despondency. Being himself misin-
terpreted, calumniated, and traduced; and feeling
that none loved him but through vanity, that he
stood alone with his enemies in the world, he
became the prey to misanthropy, and gnawed
by perpetual suspicion. He distrusted the smiles
of others. The faces of men seemed to him as
masks ;
he felt everywhere the presence of de-
ceit. Yet these feelings had made no part of
his early character, which was naturally frank,
joyous, and confiding. Was the change a mis-
fortune ? Possibly ;
but it was the effect of RE-
PUTATION !
About this time, too, Fi-ho-ti began to feel the
effects of the severe study he had undergone.
His health gave way; his nerves were shat-
tered; he was in that terrible revolution in
which the Mind that vindictive labourer
wreaks its ire upon the enfeebled taskmaster,
the Body. He walked the ghost of his former
self.
One day he was standing pensively beside one
of the streams that intersect the gardens of
32 FI-HO-TI.
Pekin, and, gazing upon the waters, he muttered
his bitter reveries.
" Ah !" thought he,
"
why
was I ever discontented with happiness? I
was young, rich, cheerful ;
and life to me was a
perpetual holyday ; my friends caressed me, my
mistress loved me for myself. No one hated,
or maligned, or envied me. Like yon leaf
upon the water, my soul danced merrily over
the billows of existence. But courage, my
heart ! I have at least done some good ;
bene-
volence must experience gratitude young Psi-
ching, for instance. I have the pleasure of
thinking that he must love me; I have made
his fortune ;
I have brought him from obscurity
into repute ; for it has been my character as yet
never to be jealous of others !"
Psi-ching was a young poet, who had been
secretary to Fi-ho-ti.
'
The student had disco-
vered genius and insatiable ambition in the
young man; he had directed and advised his
pursuits; he had raised him into fortune and
notice ; he had enabled him to marry the mistress
he loved. Psi-ching vowed to him everlasting
Gratitude.
FI-HO-TI. (33
Wliile Fi-ho-ti was thus consoling himself
with the idea of Psi-ching's affection, it so hap-
pened that Psi-ching, and one of the philoso-
phers of the day whom the public voice esteemed
second to Fi-ho-ti, passed along the banks of
the river. A tree hid Fi-ho-ti from their sight ;
they were earnestly conversing, and Fi-ho-ti
heard his own name more than once repeated.
"
Yes," said Psi-ching,
"
poor Fi-ho-ti cannot
live much longer; his health is broken; you
will lose a formidable rival when he is dead."
The philosopher smiled. "
Why, it will cer-
tainly be a stone out of my way. You are con-
stantly with him, I think."
" I am. He is a charming person ; but the
real fact is, that, seeing he cannot live much
longer, I am keeping a journal of his last days ;
in a word, I shall write the history of my dis-
tinguished friend. I think it will take much, and
have a prodigious sale."
The talkers passed on.
Fi-ho-ti did not die so soon as was expected,
and Psi-ching never published the journal from
c 5
34 FI-HO-TI.
which he anticipated so much profit. But
Fi-ho-ti ceased to be remarkable for the kind-
ness of his heart and the philanthropy of his
views. He was rather known for the sourness
of his temper and the bitterness of his satire.
By degrees he rose into public eminence, and
on the accession of a new Emperor, Fi-ho-ti
was commanded to ask any favour that he de-
sired. The office of Tsung-tuh (or viceroy) of
the rich province of Che-kiang, was just vacant.
The courtiers waited breathless to hear the
vacancy requested. The Emperor smiled be-
nignly it was the post he secretly intended for
Fi-ho-ti. " Son of heaven, and lord of a my-
riad of years," said the favourite,
" suffer then
thy servant to retire into one of the monas-
teries of Kai-fon-gu, and to change his name !"
The last hope of peace that was left to Fi-
ho-ti, was to escape from his REPUTATION.
THE
KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
IN MEN AND BOOKS.
THE
KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
IN MEN AND BOOKS.
ROYALTY and its symbols were abolished in
France. A showman of wild beasts possessed an
immense Bengal tiger, (the pride of his flock,)
commonly called the Royal Tiger. What did
our showman do? Why, he knew the world,
and he changed the name of the beast, from the
Tigre Royal to the Tigre National ! Horace
Walpole was particularly charmed with this
anecdote, for he knew the world as well as the
showman. It is
exactly these little things the
happy turn of a phrase a well-timed pleasantry,
38 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
(which no unobservant man ever thinks of,)
that, while seeming humour, are in reality wis-
dom. There are changes in the vein of wit, as
in every thing else. Sir William Temple tells
us, that on the return of Charles II. none were
more out of fashion than the old Earl of Nor-
wich, who was esteemed the greatest wit of the
time of Charles the First But it is clear that
the Earl of Norwich must have wanted know-
ledge of the world ;
he did not feel, as by an in-
stinct, like the showman, how to vary an epithet
he stuck to the last to his tigre royal !
This knowledge of the world baffles our calcu-
lations it does not always require experience.
Some men take to it
intuitively ;
their first step
in life exhibits the same profound mastery over
the minds of their contemporaries the same
subtle consideration the same felicitous ad-
dress, as distinguish the close of their career.
Congreve had written his comedies at twenty-
five ; the best anecdotes of the acuteness of
Cyrus are those of his boyhood. I should like,
above all things, a veracious account of the
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 39
childhood of Talleyrand. What a world of
shrewdness may he have vented in trundling
his hoop !
Shakspeare has given us the mad-
ness of Hamlet the youth, and of Lear the old
man but there is a far deeper wisdom in the
young man's thoughts than those of the old
man.
Minds early accustomed to solitude usually
make the keenest observers of the world, arid
chiefly for this reason when few objects are
presented to our contemplation, we seize them
we ruminate over them we think, again and
again, upon all the features they present to our
examination ;
and we thus master the knowledge
of the great book of Mankind, as Eugene Aram
mastered that of Learning by studying five lines
at a time, and ceasing not from our labour till
those are thoroughly acquired. A boy, whose
attention has not been distracted by a multi-
plicity of objects who, living greatly alone, is
obliged therefore to think, not as a task, but as
a diversion, emerges at last into the world a
shy man, but a deep observer. Accustomed to
reflection, he is not dazzled by novelty; while it
40 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
strikes his eye, it occupies his mind. Hence,
if he sit down to describe what he sees, he de-
scribes it justly at once, and at first ;
and more
vividly, perhaps, than he might in after-life, be-
cause it is newer to him. Perhaps, too, the
moral eye resembles the physical by custom
familiarizes itself with delusion, and inverts,
mechanically, the objects presented to it, till
the deceit becomes more natural than nature
itself.
There are men who say they know the world,
because they know its vices. Could we admit
this 'claim, what sage would rival an officer at
Bow-street, or the turnkey at Newgate ? This
would indeed be knowledge of the world, if the
world were inhabited only by rogues. But
pretenders of this sort are as bad judges of
our minds as a physician would be of our
bodies, if he had never seen any but those in
a diseased state. Such a man would fancy
health itself a disease ! We generally find, in-
deed, that men are governed by their weak-
nesses, not their vices, and those weaknesses
are often the most amiable part about them.
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 41
The wavering Jaffier betrays his friend through
a weakness, which a hardened criminal might
equally have felt, and which, in that criminal,
might have been the origin of his guilt. It is
the knowledge of these weaknesses, as by a
glance, that serves a man better in the under-
standing and conquest of his species, than a
knowledge of the vices to which they lead it is
better to seize the one cause than ponder over
the thousand effects. It is the former know-
ledge which I chiefly call the knowledge of the
world. It is this which immortalised Moliere
in the drama, and distinguishes Talleyrand in
action.
It has been asked whether the same worldly
wisdom which we admire in a writer would, had
occasion brought him prominently forward, have
made him equally successful in action? Cer-
tainly not, as a necessary consequence. Swift
was the most sensible writer of his day, and one
of the least sensible politicians, in the selfish
sense the only sense in which he knew it of
the word. What knowledge of the world in
42 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
" Don Juan" and in Byron's
"
Correspondence"
what seeming want of that knowledge in the
great poet's susceptibility to attack, on the one
hand, and his wanton trifling with his character,
on the other ! How is this difference between
the man and the writer to be accounted for?
Because, in the writer, the infirmities of consti-
tution are either concealed or decorated by ge-
nius not so in the man: fretfulness, spleen
morbid sensitiveness, eternally spoil our plans in
life but they often give an interest to our plans
on paper. Byron, quarrelling with the world, as
Childe Harold, proves his genius; but Byron
quarrelling with the world in his own person,
betrays his folly ! To show wisdom in a book,
it is but necessary that we should possess the
theoretical wisdom ;
but in life, it
requires not
only the theoretical wisdom, but the practical
ability to act up to it. We may know exactly
what we ought to do, but we may not have the
fortitude to do it.
"
Now," says the shy man in
love,
" I ought to go and talk to my mistress
my rival is with her I ought to make myself
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 43
as agreeable as possible I ought to throw that
fellow in the shade by my bons mots and my
compliments." Does he do so ? No ! he sits in
a corner and scowls at the lady. He is in the
miserable state described by Persius. He knows
what is good and cannot perform it. Yet this
man, if an author, from the very circumstance of
feeling so bitterly that his constitution is stronger
than his reason, would have made his lover in a
book all that he could not be himself in reality.
Hence the best advisers of our conduct are often
those who are the least prudent in the regulation
of their own. Their sense is clear when exerted
for us, but vanity, humour, passion, blind them
when they act for themselves.
There is a sort of wit peculiar to knowledge
of the world, and we usually find that writers,
who are supposed to have the most exhibited
that knowledge in their books, are also com-
monly esteemed the wittiest authors of their
country Horace, Plautus, Moliere, Le Sage,
Voltaire, Cervantes, Shakspeare, Fielding, Swift;*
*
Let me mention two political writers of the present
44 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
and this is, because the essence of the most re-
fined species of wit is truth. Even in the solemn
and grave Tacitus, we come perpetually to sud-
den turns striking points, of sententious bril-
liancy, which make us smile, from the depth
itself of their importance ;
an aphorism is always
on the borders of an epigram.*
It is remarkable that there is scarcely any
very popular author of great imaginative power,
in whose works we do not recognise that common
sense which is knowledge of the world, and which
is so generally supposed by the superficial to be
in direct opposition to the imaginative faculty.
When an author does not possess it
eminently,
he is never eminently popular, whatever be his
day men equally remarkable for their wit and wisdom
Sidney Smith, and the Editor of the "
Examiner,"
Mr. Fonblanque ; the latter writer, (however we may
differ from his politics,) is perhaps the greatest master
of that art which makes " words like sharp swords,"
that our age has produced.
*
And every one will recollect the sagacious sneer of
Gibbon.
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 45
fame. Compare Scott and Shelley, the two most
imaginative authors of their time. The one, in
his wildest flights, never loses sight of common
sense there is an affinity between him and his
humblest reader ; nay, the more discursive the
flight, the closer that affinity becomes. We are
even more wrapt with the author when he is
with his Spirits of the Mountain and Fell with
the mighty dead at Melrose, than when he is
leading us through the humours of a guard-room,
or confiding to us the interview of lovers. But
Shelley disdained common sense. Of his " Prince
Athanase," we have no earthly comprehension
with his " Prometheus" we have no human sym-
pathies ;
and the grander he becomes, the less
popular we find him. Writers who do not, in
theory, know their kind, may be admired, but
they can never be popular. And when we hear
men of unquestionable genius complain of not
being appreciated by the herd, it is because
they are not themselves skilled in the feelings of
the herd. For what is knowledge of mankind,
46 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
but the knowledge of their feelings, their hu-
mours, their caprices, their passions ? touch
these, and you gain attention develope these,
and you have conquered your audience.
Among writers of an inferior reputation we
often discover a sufficient shrewdness and pene-
tration into human foibles to startle us in
details, while they cannot carry their knowledge
far enough to please us on the whole. They can
paint nature by a happy hit, but they violate all
the likeness before they have concluded the plot
they charm us with a reflection and revolt us
by a character. Sir John Suckling is one of
these writers his correspondence is
witty and
thoughtful, and his plays but little known in
comparison to his songs abound with just re-
marks and false positions, the most natural lines
and the most improbable inventions. Two per-
sons in one of these plays are under sentence of
execution, and the poet hits off the vanity of the
one by a stroke worthy of a much greater dra-
matist.
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 47
" I have something troubles me," says Pella-
grin.
" What's that?" asks his friend.
" The people," replies Pellagrin,
" will say, as
we go along,
'
thou art the properer fellow f
"
Had the whole character been conceived like
that sentence, I should not have forgotten the
name of the play, and instead of making a joke,
the author would have consummated a creation.
Both Madame de Stael and Rousseau appear to
me to have possessed this sort of imperfect
knowledge. Both are great in aphorisms, and
feeble in realizing conceptions of flesh and blood.
When Madame de Stael tells us "that great
losses, so far from binding men more closely to
the advantages they still have left, at once loosen
all ties of affection," she speaks like one versed
in the mysteries of the human heart, and ex-
presses exactly what she wishes to convey ;
but
when she draws the character of Corinne's lover,
she not only confounds all the moral qualities
.
into one impossible compound, but she utterly
fails in what she evidently attempts to picture.
48 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
The proud, sensitive, generous, high-minded
Englishman, with a soul at once alive to genius,
and fearing its effect daring as a soldier, timid
as a man the slave of love that tells him to
scorn the world, and of opinion that tells him to
adore it this is the new, the delicate, the many-
coloured character Madame de Stael conceived,
and nothing can be more unlike the heartless
and whining pedant she has accomplished.
In Rousseau, every sentence Lord Edouard
utters is full of beauty, and sometimes of depth,
and yet those sentences give us no conception of
the utterer himself. The expressions are all
soul, and the character is all clay nothing can
be more brilliant than the sentiments, or more
heavy than the speaker.
It is a curious fact that the graver writers
have not often succeeded in plot and character
in proportion to their success in the allure-
ment of reflection, or the graces of style. While
Goldsmith makes us acquainted with all the per-
sonages of his unrivalled story while we sit at
the threshold in the summer evenings and sym-
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 49
pathize with the good vicar in his laudable zeal
for monogamy while ever and anon we steal a
look behind through the lattice, and smile at the
gay Sophia, who is playing with Dick, or fix our
admiration on Olivia, who is practising an air
against the young squire comes while we see
the sturdy Burchell crossing the stile, and strid-
ing on at his hearty pace with his oak cudgel
cutting circles in the air nay, while we ride
with Moses to make his bargains, and prick up
our ears when Mr. Jenkinson begins with "
Ay,
sir ! the world is in its dotage ;" while in recall-
ing the characters of that immortal tale, we are
recalling the memory of so many living persons
with whom we have dined, and walked, and
argued we behold in the gloomy Rasselas of
Goldsmith's sager cotemporary, a dim succession
of shadowy images without life or identity, mere
machines for the grinding of morals, and the
nice location of sonorous phraseology. Perhaps
indeed Humour is an essential requisite in the
flesh-and-blood delineation of character; and a
quick perception of the Ridiculous is
necessary to
VOL. I. D
50 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
the accurate insight into the True. We can
better ascertain the profundity of Machiavel
after we have enjoyed the unrivalled humour of
his novel.
That delightful egotist half-good-fellow, half-
sage, half-rake, half-divine, the pet gossip of phi-
losophy, the in one word inimitable and unimi-
tated Montaigne, insists upon it in right earnest,
that continual cheerfulness is the most indisput-
able sign of wisdom, and that her estate, like that
of things in the regions above the moon, is always
calm, cloudless, and serene. And in the same
essay he recites the old story of Demetrius the
grammarian, who, finding in the Temple of Del-
phos a knot of philosophers chatting away in
high glee and comfort, said,
" I am greatly mis-
taken, gentlemen, or by your pleasant coun-
tenances you are not engaged in any very
profound discourse." Whereon Heracleon an-
swered the grammarian with a "
Pshaw, my
good friend ! it does very well for fellows who
live in a perpetual anxiety to know whether the
future tense of the verb Ballo should be spelt
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 51
with one I or two, to knit their brows and look
solemn ;
but we who are engaged in discoursing
of true philosophy, are cheerful as amatter of
course !" Heracleon the magician, knew what
he was about when he resolved to be wise.
And yet, after all, it is our constitution and not
our learning, that makes us one thing or the
other grave or gay, lively or severe ! We
may form our philosophy in one school, but our
feelings may impel us to another ;
and while our
tenets rejoice with Democritus, our hearts may
despond with Heraclitus. And, in fact, it re-
quires not only all that our wisdom can teach
us, but perhaps, also, something of a constitution
of mind naturally sanguine and elastic, to trans-
mute into golden associations the baser ores of
our knowledge of the world. Deceit and Dis-
appointment are but sorry stimulants to the
Spirits !
" The pleasure of the honey will not
pay for the smart of the sting."*
As we know, or fancy that we know, mankind,
there is a certain dimness that falls upon the
*
Jeremy Taylor, Sermon vi. Part 2.
D2
52 THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WORLD
glory of all we see.
" The lily is withered, the
purple of the violet turned into paleness ;"* with-
out growing perhaps more selfish, we contract the
circle of our enjoyments. We do not hazard we
do not venture as we once did. The sea that
rolls before us proffers to our curiosity no port
that we have not already seen. About this time,
too, our ambition changes its character it be-
comes more a thing of custom than of ardour. We
have begun our career shame forbids us to
leave it ;
but I question whether any man mode-
rately wise, does not see how small is the reward
of pursuit. Nay, ask the oldest, the most hacknied
adventurer of the world, and you will find he has
some dream at his heart, which is more cherished
than all the honours he seeks some dream per-
haps of a happy and serene retirement which has
lain at his breast since he was a boy, and which
he will never realize. The trader and his re-
treat at Highgate are but the type of Walpole
and his palace at Houghton. The worst feature
*
Jeremy Taylor. Contemplations of the State of
Man.
IN MEN AND BOOKS. 53
in our knowledge of the world is, that we are
wise to little purpose we penetrate the hearts
of others, but we do not content our own. Every
wise man feels that he ought not to be ambitious,
nor covetous, nor subject to emotion yet the
wisest go on toiling, and burning to the last.
Men who have declaimed most against ambition
have been among the most ambitious; so that,
at the best, we only become wise for the sake of
writing books which the world seldom values till
we are dead or of making laws and speeches,
which, when dead, the world hastens to forget.
" When all is done, human life is at the greatest
and the best but like a froward child, that must
be played with and humoured a little to keep it
quiet till it falls asleep, and then the care is
over." *
* Sir William Temple.
THE
THE MAGICIAN.
THE
TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
THE MAGICIAN.*
IT was deep night, and the Magician suddenly
stood before me. "
Arise," said he,
" and let
*
This tale, complete in itself, is extracted from a
work at present crude and unfinished, but which I
may hereafter remodel and complete a philosophical
Prose-Poem, in which, through the means, sometimes
of humour, sometimes of terror, certain social and
metaphysical problems will be worked out. I need
scarcely say that the chief task in such a composition
would be to avoid any imitation of the Faust.
D5
58 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
us go forth upon the surface of the world."* I
rose, and followed the sorcerer until we came to
the entrance of a cavern. Pursuing its subter-
ranean course for some minutes, with the rush-
ing sound of prisoned waters loud and wild upon
the ear, we came at length to a spot where the
atmosphere struck upon my breath with a chill
and earthy freshness ;
and presently, through a
fissure in the rock, the sudden whiteness of the
moon broke in, and lit
up, partially, walls radiant
with spars, and washed by a deep stream, that
wound its mysterious way to the upper air. And
now, gliding through the chasm, we stood in a
broad cell, with its
lofty arch open to the sea.
Column and spire (brilliant with various crystal-
lizations spars of all hues) sprang lightly up on
either side of this cavern and with a leap, and
a mighty voice, the stream, whose course we had
been tracking, rushed into the arms of the great
Sea. Along that sea, star after star mirrored its
*
The Narrator is
supposed to have been with the
Magician amidst the caverns of the interior of the
Earth.
THE MAGICIAN. 59
solemn lustre and the moon, clad in a fuller
splendour than I had ever seen gathered round
her melancholy orb, filled the cavern with a light,
that was to the light of day what the life of an
angel is to that of a mortal. Passionless, yet
tender steadfast mystic unwavering she
shone upon the glittering spars, and made a
holiness of the very air ;
and in a long line, from
the cavern to the verge of heaven, her sweet
face breathed a measured and quiet joy into the
rippling. billows " smiles of the sea," * A few
thin and fleecy clouds alone varied the clear ex-
panse of the heavens and they rested, like the
cars of spirits, far on the horizon. And,
"
Beautiful," said I,
" is this outward world
your dim realms beneath have nothing to
compare with it. There are no stars in the
temples of the hidden earth and one glimpse
from the lovely moon is worth all the witchfires
and meteors of the Giant palaces below."
" Thou lookest, young Mortal," said the
Wizard in his mournful voice,
" over my na-
*
^Eschylus, Prometheus.
60 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM.
tive shore. Beside that sea stood my ances-
tral halls and beneath that moon first swell-
ed within my bosom the deep tides of hu-
man emotion and in this cavern, whence we
now look forth on the seas and heavens, my
youth passed some of its earnest hours in con-
templations of that high and starred order which
your lessened race clogged with the mire of
ages never know : For that epoch was far re-
mote in those ages which even tradition scarcely
pierces. Your first fathers what of their know-
ledge know ye ? what of their secrets have ye
retained? their vast and dark minds were
never fathomed by the plummet of your re-
searches. The waves of the Black Night have
swept over the Antient World and all that you
can guess of its buried glories are from the
shivered fragments that ever and anon Chance
casts upon the shores of the modern race."
" Do we sink, then," said I,
"
by comparison
with the men 'of those distant times? Is not
our lore deeper and more certain? Was not
their knowledge the offspring of a confused and
THE MAGICIAN. 61
labouring conjecture ? Did they not live among
dreams and shadows, and make Truth itself the
creature of a fertile Imagination?"
"
Nay," replied the shrouded and uncertain
form beside me " their knowledge pierced
into the heart of things. They consulted the
stars but it was to measure the dooms of
earth ;
and could we raise from the dust their
perished scrolls, you would behold the mirror of
the living times. Their prophecies (wrung
from the 'toil and rapture of those powers which
ye suffer to sleep, quenched, within the soul)
traversed the wilds of ages, and pointed out
among savage hordes the cities and laws of em-
pires yet to be. Ten thousand arts have moul-
dered from the earth and Science is the shadow
of what it was. Young mortal, thou hast set
thine heart upon Wisdom thou hast wasted
the fresh and radiant hours of opening life
amidst the wearying thoughts of others: thou
hast laboured after Knowledge, and in that labour
the healthful hues have for ever left thy cheek,
62 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
and age creeps upon the core while the dew is
yet upon the leaf: and for this labour and in
the transport and the vision that the soul's labour
nurtures thy spirit is now rapt from its fleshly
career on earth, wandering at will amongst the
dread chasms and mines wombed within the
world, breathing a vital air amongst the dead,
comraded by Spirits, and the Powers that are
not of flesh, and catching, by imperfect glimpse
and shadowy type, some knowledge of the arch
mysteries of Creation; and thou beholdest in
me and in my science that which thy learning
and thy fancy tracked not before. No legend
ever chanced upon my strange and solemn being:
nor does aught of my nature resemble the
tales of Wizard or Sorcerer that the vulgar
phantasies of Superstition have embodied. Thou
hast journied over a land without a chart, and
\
in which even Fable has hacknied not the
Truth. Thou wouldst learn something of the
Being thus permitted to thy wonder; be
it so. Under these sparkling arches and be-
THE MAGICIAN. 63
fore my ancestral sea and beneath the listening
ear of the halting Moon thou shalt learn a
history of the Antique World."
THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM.
Along the shores which for thirty centuries
no human foot has trod and upon plains where
now not one stone stands upon another, telling
even of decay was once the city and the empire
of the Wise Kings for so termed by their neigh-
bours were the monarchs that ruled this country.
Generation after generation they had toiled to
earn and preserve that name. Amidst the gloom
of mysterious temples, and the oracular learning
of the star-read priests, the youth of each suc-
ceeding King was reared into a grave and brood-
ing manhood. Their whole lives were mystery.
Wrapt in the sepulchral grandeur of the
Imperial palace seen rarely like gods they
sent forth, as from a cloud, the light of their
dread but benign laws: the courses of their
life were tracked not but they were believed to
64 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
possess the power over the seasons and elements
and to summon, at their will, the large-winged
spirits, that walk to and fro across the earth,
governing, like dreams, with a vague and un-
penetrated power, the destinies of nations and
the ambition of kings.
There was born to this imperial race a son, to
whom seer and king alike foretold a strange and
preternatural destiny. His childhood itself was
of a silent, stern, and contemplative nature.
And his learning, even in his boyish youth, had
ransacked all that the grey priests could teach
him.
But the passions are interwoven deeply with
the elements of thought. And real wisdom is
only gained by the process of fierce emotion.
Amidst all the pursuits of his aspiring mind,
the heart of the young prince burned with a
thousand passions untold and unregulated.
The Magician paused for a moment, and then,
in a voice far different from the cold and solemn
tone in which his accents were usually clothed,
he broke forth :
THE MAGICIAN. 65
"
O, beautiful, beyond the beauty of these
sicklied and hoary times, was the beauty of
Woman in the young world ! The glory of Eden
had not yet departed from her face, and the
lustre of unwearied Nature glowed alike upon
Earth and Earth's majestic daughters. Beauty
is youth's idol and in the breast of Gondorah,
for so was the Prince popularly called, (his
higher and mystic titles may not be revealed,)
the great passion the great yearning the great
desire was for the Lovely and the August
whatever their shape or mould. Not in woman
only, but in all things, tne Beautiful made his
worship wherever he beheld it, the image of
the Deity was glassed on his adoring soul. But
to him or rather to myself (if memory retain
identity through the shift and lapse of worlds;
making me, the same as one who, utterly dissi-
milar, lived a man amongst men, long ages
back) to me, there was yet a fiercer and more
absorbing passion than love, or the idolatry of
Nature THE DESIRE TO KNOW !
My mind
launched itself into the depth of Things I
66 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
loved step after step to trace Effect to its first
Cause. Reason was a chain from heaven to
earth, and every link led me to aspire to the
stars themselves. And the wisdom of my wise
fathers was mine ;
I knew the secret of the ele-
ments, and could charm them into slumber, or
arouse them to war. The mysteries of that
dread Chemistry which is now among the Sciences
that sleep by which we can command the air
and walk on its viewless paths by which we
can wake the thunder and summon the cloud
and rive the earth ; the exercise of that high
faculty the Imagining Power by which Fancy
itself creates what it wills, and which, trained
and exercised, can wake the spectres of the
dead and bring visible to the carnal eye the
Genii that walk the world ; the watchful, strain-
ing, sleepless science, that can make a Sage's
volume of the stars ;
these were mine, and yet
I murmured I repined ! what higher mysteries
were yet left to learn ! The acquisition of to-day
was but the disappointment of the morrow, and
the dispensation of my ambition was to de-
sire i
THE MAGICIAN. 67
It was evening, and I went from the groves
of the sacred Temple, to visit one whom I
loved. The way spread over black and rugged
masses of rock, amidst which, the wild shrub
and dark weed sprung rife and verdant ;
for the
waste as yet was eloquent of some great revul-
sion of the soil in the earlier epochs of the
World when Change often trod the heels of
Change ;
and the Earth was scarcely reconciled
to the sameness of her calm career. And I
stood beneath the tree where SHE was to meet
me and my heart leapt within me as I saw her
footsteps bounding along and she came with
her sweet lips breathing the welcome of human
love, and I laid my head on her bosom and was
content.
And,
"
Oh," said she,
" art thou not proud of
thy dawning fame? The Seers speak of thee
with wonder, and the Priests bow their heads
before thy name."
Then the passion of my soul broke forth, and
I answered,
" What is this petty power that I
possess, and what this barren knowledge ? The
68 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
Great Arch Secret of all, I have toiled night
after night to conquer, and I cannot attain it.
What is it to command even the dark Spirits at
war with Heaven if we know not the nature of
what we command ? What I desire is not know-
ledge, but the source of knowledge. I wish that
my eye should penetrate at once into the germ
and cause of things : that when I look upon the
outward beauty of the world, my sight should
pierce within, and see the mechanism that causes
and generates the beauty working beneath.
Enough of my art have I learned to know that
there is a film over human eyes which prevents
their penetrating beyond the surface; it is to
remove that film, and dart into the essence, and
survey the One Great Productive Spirit of all
Things, that I labour and yearn in vain. All
other knowledge is a cheat; this is the high
prerogative which mocks at conjecture and
equals us with a God !"
Then Lyciah saw that I was moved, and she
kissed me, and sung me the sweet songs, that
steeped my heart, as it were, in a bath of fra-
grant herbs.
THE MAGICIAN. 69
Midnight had crept over the earth as I re-
turned homeward across that savage scene.
Rock heaped on rock bordered and broke upon
the lonely valley that I crossed and the moon
was still, and shining, as at this hour, when its
life is four thousand years nearer to its doom.
Then suddenly I saw moving before me, with a
tremulous motion, a meteoric Fire of an ex-
ceeding brightness. Ever as it moved above
the seared and sterile soil, it soared and darted
restlessly to and fro; and I thought, as it
danced and quivered, that I heard it laugh from
its burning centre with a wild and frantic joy.
I fancied, as I gazed upon the Fire, that in that
shape revelled one of the children of the Ele-
mentary Genii; and, addressing it in their lan-
guage, I bade it assume a palpable form. But
the Fire darted on unheedingly, save that now
the laugh from amidst the flame came all dis-
tinct and fearfully on my ear. Then my hair
stood erect and my veins curdled and my
knees knocked together; I was under the in-
fluence of an Awe; for I felt that the Power
70 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
was not of the world nor of that which my an-
cestral knowledge of the Powers of other worlds
had yet pierced. My voice faltered, and thrice
I strove to speak to the Light but in vain ;
and
when at length I addressed it in the solemn
adjuration by which the sternest of the Fiends
are bound, the Fire sprang up from the soil
towering aloof and aloft with a livid but glo-
rious lustre, bathing the whole atmosphere in
its glare, quenching, with an intenser ray, the
splendours of the Moon, and losing its giant
crest in the Far Invisible of Heaven !
And a voice came forth, saying "Thou
callest upon inferior Spirits ;
I am that which
thou hast pined to behold I am '
The Living
Principle of the World !
' "
I bowed my face, and covered it with my
hands, and my voice left me ; and when again I
looked round, behold, the Fire had shrunk from
its
momentary height, and was (now dwarfed and
humble) creeping before me in its
wavering and
snake-like course. But fear was on me, and I
fled, and fast fled the Fire by my side ;
and oft,
THE MAGICIAN. 71
but faint, from its ghastly heart came the laugh
that thrilled the marrow of my bones. And the
waste was past, and the Giant Temple of the
One God rose before me ;
I rushed forward, and
fell breathless by its silent Altar. And there
sat the High Priest, for night and day some one
of the Sacred Host watched by the Altar ;
and
he was of great age, and all human emotion had
left his veins ; but even he was struck with my
fear, and gazed upon me with his rayless eyes,
and bade me be of cheer, for the place was holy.
I looked round, and the Fire was not visible, and
I breathed freely ; but I answered not the Priest,
for years had dulled him into stone, and when I
rose his eye followed me not. I gained the
purple halls set apart for the King's son. And
the pillars were of ivory inlaid with gold and
the gems and perfumes of the East gave light
and fragrance to those wondrous courts ;
and
the gorgeous banquet was spread, and music
from unseen hands swelled along arch and aisle
as I trod the royal Hall. But lo !
by the throne,
crouching beneath the purple canopy, I saw
72 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
the laughing Fire and it seemed, lowly and
paled, to implore protection. I paused, and
took the courtiers aside, and asked them to
mark the flame ; but they saw it not it burnt
to mine eye alone. Then knew I that it was
indeed a Spirit of that high race, which, even
when they take visible form, are riot visible save
to the students of the Dread Science ! And I
trembled but revered.
And the Fire stayed by me night and day, and
I grew accustomed to its light. But never, by
charm or spell, could I draw further word from
it; and it followed my steps with a silent and
patient homage. And by degrees a vain and
proud delight came over me, to think that I was
so honoured; and I looked upon the pale and
changeful face of the Fire as the face of a
friend.
There was a man who had told years beyond
the memory of the living a renowned and
famous seer to whom, in times of dread and
omen, our Priests and Monarchs themselves
repaired for warning and advice. I sought his
THE MAGICIAN. 73
abode. The seer was not of our race he came
from the distant waters of the Nile, and the dark
mysteries of Egypt had girded his youth.
It was in the cavern itself in which, young
stranger of the North, this tale is now poured
into thy ear, that the Seer held his glittering
home for lamp upon lamp then lighted up,
from an unfailing naphtha, these dazzling spars
and the seamen of the vessels that crowded
yonder bay beheld, far down the blue waters, the
nightly blaze flickering along the wave, and re-
minding the reverent mariner of many an awful
legend of the Cavern Home. And hither had
often turned my young feet in my first boyhood,
and from the shrivelled lip of the old Egyptian
had much of my loftiest learning been gleaned ;
for he loved me and seeing with a prophet
eye far down the great depths of Time, he
knew that I was fated to wild and fearful des-
tinies, and a life surpassing the period of his
own.
It was on that night, when the New Moon
scatters its rank and noxious influence over the
VOL. II. E
74 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
foliage and life of earth, that I sought the Egyp-
tian. The Fire burned with a fiercer and
redder light than its wont, as it
played and
darted by my side. And when, winding by the
silver sands, I passed into the entrance of the
Cave, I saw the old man sitting on a stone.
As I entered, the Seer started from his seat in
fear and terror his eyes rolled his thin grey
hairs stood erect a cold sweat broke from his
brow and the dread master stood before his
pupil in agony and awe.
" Thou comest," muttered he with white lips;
" What is by thy side ? hast thou dared to seek
knowledge with the Soul of all Horror with
the ghastly Leper of Avaunt ! bid the
fiend begone !"
His voice seemed to leave the old man, and
with a shriek he fell upon his face on the
ground.
" Is it," said I, appalled by his terror " is
it the Fire that haunts my steps at which thou
tremblest ? behold, it is harmless as a dog ;
it
burns not while it shines ;
if a fiend, it is a merry
THE MAGICIAN. 75
fiend, for I hear it laugh while I speak. But it
is for this, Dread' Sire, that I have sought thee.
Canst thou tell me the nature of the Spirit
for a Spirit it
surely is ? Canst thou tell me its
end and aim ?"
I lifted the old man from the earth and his
kingly heart returned to him and he took the
Wizard Crown from the wall, and he placed it on
his brows for he was as a Monarch among the
Things that are not of clay. And he said to
the Fire "
Approach !" And the Fire glided
to his knees. And he said,
" Art thou the
Spirit of the Element, and was thy cradle in the
Flint's heart ?"
And a voice from the flame answered " No."
And again the Egyptian trembled.
" What art thou, then ?" said he.
And the Fire answered,
"
Thy Lord."
And the limbs of the Egyptian shook as with
the grasp of death.
And he said,
" Art thou a Demon of this
world ?"
E 2
76 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
And the Fire answered,
" I am the Life of
this world and I am not of other worlds."
" I know thee I fear thee I acknowledge
thee !" said the Egyptian,
" and in thy soft lap
shall this crowned head soon be laid."
And the Fire laughed.
'
But tell me," said I, for though my blood
stood still my soul was brave and stern " Tell
me, O Sire, what hath this Thing with me ?"
" It is the Great Ancestor of us all !" said
the Egyptian, groaning.
" And knows it the Secrets of the Past ?'
" The Secrets of the Past are locked with-
in it."
" Can it teach me that which I pine to know ?
Can it teach me the essence of things the
nature of all I see ? Can it raise the film from
my human eyes ?"
" Rash Prince, be hushed !" cried the Egyp-
tian, rising, and glaring upon me with his stony
eye
" Seek not to know that which will curse
thee with the knowledge. Ask not a power
THE MAGICIAN. 77
that would turn life into a living grave. All
the lore that man ever knew is mine ;
but that
secret have I shunned, and that power have I
cast from me, as the shepherd casts the viper
from his hand. Be still be moderate be wise.
And bid me exorcise the Spirit that accosts thee
from the Fire !"
" Can it teach me the arch mystery ? When
I gaze upon the herb or flower, can it gift my
gaze with the power to pierce into the cause and
workings of its life ?"
" I can teach thee this," said the Fire ;
and it
rose higher, and burned fiercer, as it spake, till
the lamps of naphtha paled before it
" Then abide by me, O Spirit," said I ;
" and
let us not be severed."
" Miserable boy," cried the Egyptian ;
" was
this, then, the strange and preternatural doom
which my Art foresaw was to be thine, though
it deciphered not its nature? Knowest thou
that this Fire so clear so pure so beautiful
is
"
" Beware !" cried the voice from the Fire ;
78 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
and the crest of the flame rose, as the crest of a
serpent about to spring upon its prey.
" Thou awest me not," said the Egyptian,
though the blood fled from his shrivelled and
tawny cheeks. " Thou art
"
" The Living Principle of the World," inter-
rupted the voice.
" And thine other name ?" cried the Egyp-
tian.
"
Thy Conqueror !" answered the voice ;
and
straight, as the answer went forth, the Egyptian
fell, blasted as by lightning, a corpse at my feet.
The light of the Fire played with a blue and
tremulous lustre upon the carcass, and pre-
sently I beheld by that light that the corpse was
already passed into the loathsomeness of decay
the flesh was rotting from the bones and the
worm and the creeping thing, that the rotten-
ness generates, twined in the very jaws and tem-
ples of the Sage.
I sickened and gasped for breath " Is this
thy work, oh Fearful Fiend !" said I, shuddering.
And the Fire, passing from the corpse, crept
THE MAGICIAN. 79
humbly at my feet and its voice answered
" Whatever my power, it is
thy slave !"
" Was that death thy work?" repeated my
quivering lips.
" Thou knowest," answered the Fire,
" that
Death is not the will of any Power save one.
The death came from His will and I but ex-
ulted over the blow !"
I left the cavern; my art, subtle as it was,
gave me no glimpse into the causes of the Egyp-
tian's death. I looked upon the Fire, as it
crept along the herbage, with an inquisitive, yet
dreading eye. I felt an awe of the Demon's
power ;
and yet the proud transport I had known
in the subjection of that power was increased,
and I walked with a lofty step at the thought
that I should have so magnificent a slave. But
the words of the mysterious Egyptian still rang
in my ear still I shuddered and recoiled be-
fore his denunciation of the power and the
secret I desired. And the voice of the Fire
now addressed me (as I passed along the starry
solitude) with a persuasive and sweet tone.
80 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
" Shrink not, young Sage," it said, or rather
sang,
" from a power beyond that of which thy
wisest ancestors ever dreamed lose not thy
valour at the drivelling whispers of age when
did ever age approve what youth desires ? Thou
art formed for the destiny which belongs to
royal hearts the destiny courts thee. Why
dost thou play the laggard ?"
"
Knowledge," said I, musingly,
" can never
be productive of woe. If it be knowledge thou
canst give me, I will not shrink. Lo ! I accept
thy gift!"
The Fire played cheerily to and fro. And from
the midst of it there stepped forth a pale and
shadowy form, of female shape and of exceed-
ing beauty ;
her face was indeed of no living wan-
ness, and the limbs were indistinct, and no round-
ness swelled from their vapoury robes ; but the
features were lovely as a dream, and long yellow
hair glowing as sunlight fell adown her neck.
" Thou wouldst pierce," said she,
" to the Prin-
ciple of the World. Thou wouldst that thine
eye should penetrate into my fair and most mys-
THE MAGICIAN. 81
tic dominion. But not yet; there is an ordeal
to pass. To the Whole Knowledge thou must
glide through the Imperfect !" Then the female
kissed my eyes, and vanished, and with it vanished
also the Fire.
Oh, beautiful! Oh, wondrous! Oh, di-
vine ! A scale had fallen from my sight and a
marvellous glory was called forth upon the face
of earth. I saw millions and millions of spirits
shooting to and fro athwart the air spirits that
my magic had yet never descried spirits of
rainbow hues, and quivering with the joy that
made their nature* Wherever I cast my gaze,
life upon life was visible. Every blade of grass
swarmed with myriads invisible to the common
eye but performing with mimic regularity all the
courses of the human race ; every grain of dust,
every drop of water, was a universe mapped
into a thousand tribes, all
fulfilling the great
destinies of Mortality; Love Fear Hope
Emulation Avarice Jealousy War Death*
My eyes had been touched with a glorious
charm. And even in that, which to the casual
E 5
82 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
eye would have been a mute, and solitary, and
breathless hour, I was suddenly summoned into
a dazzling atmosphere of life every atom a
world. And, bending my eyes below, I
saw emerging from the tiny hollows of the
earth, those fantastic and elfin shapes that have
been chiefly consecrated by your Northern
Bards ;
forth they came merrily, merrily danc-
ing in the smooth sheen of the silent heavens,
and chasing the swift-winged creatures, that
scarcely the glass of science can give to the eye.
If all around was life, it was the life of enchant-
ment and harmony a subtle, pervading element
of delight. Speech left me for very joy, and I
gazed, thrilled and breathless, around me en-
tered, as it were, into the Inner- Temples of the
Great System of the Universe.
I looked round for the Fire it was gone. I
was alone amidst this new and populous crea-
tion, and I stretched myself voluptuously be-
neath a tree, to sate my soul with wonder. As a
Poet in the height of his delirium was my rap-
ture my veins were filled with Poesy, which is
THE MAGICIAN. 8-3
Intoxication and my eyes had been touched
with Poesy, which is the Creative Power and
the miracles before me were Poesy, which is the
Enchanter's Wand.
Days passed, and the bright Demon which
had so gifted me appeared not, nor yet did the
spell cease ;
but every hour, every moment, new
marvels rose. I could not walk I could not
touch stone or herb, without coming into a new
realm utterly different from those I had yet
seen, but equally filled with life so that there
was never a want of novelty ;
and had I been
doomed to pass my who'le existence upon three
feet of earth, I might have spent that existence
in perpetual variety in unsatisfied and eter-
nally new research. But most of all, when I
sought Lyciah I felt the full gift I possessed ;
for in conversing with her my sense penetrated
to her heart, and I felt, as with a magnetic sym-
pathy, moving through its transparent purity,
the thoughts and emotions that were all my
own.
By degrees I longed indeed to make her a
84 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
sharer in my discovered realms; for I now
slowly began to feel the weariness of a con-
queror who reigns alone none to share my
power or partake the magnificence in which I
dwelt.
One day, even in the midst of angelic things
that floated blissfully round me so that I heard
the low melodies they hymned as they wheeled
aloft one day this pining, this sense of solitude
in h'fe of satiety in glory came on me. And
I said,
" But this is the imperfect state ; why
not enjoy the whole ? Could I ascend to that
high and empyreal Knowledge, to which this is
but a step, doubtless this dissatisfied sentiment
would vanish ;
discontent arises because there is
something still to attain ;
attain all, and discon-
tent must cease.* Bright Spirit," cried I aloud,
" to whom I already owe so great a benefit,
come to me now why hast thou left me ? Come
and complete thy gifts.
I see yet only the
wonders of the secret portions of the world
touch mine eyes that I may see the cause of the
wonders. I am surrounded with an air of h'fe ;
THE MAGICIAN. 85
let me pierce into the principle of that life.
Bright Spirit, minister to thy servant !" Then
I heard the sweet voice that had spoken in the
Fire but I saw not the Fire itself. And the
voice said unto me
" Son of the Wise Kings, I am here !"
" I see thee not," said I.
"
Why hidest thou
thy lustre ?"
" Thou seest the Half, and that very sight
blinds thee to the Whole. This redundance
and flow of life gushes from me as from its
source. When the mid-course of the River is
seen, who sees also its distant spring ? In thee,
not myself, is the cause that thou beholdest me
not. I am as I was when I bowed my crest
to thy feet ; but thine eyes are not what then
they were !"
" Thou tellest me strange things, O Demon !"
said I ;
" for why, when admitted to a clearer sight
of things, should my eyes be darkened alone
when they turn to thee ?"
" Does not all knowledge, save the one right
knowledge, only lead men from the discovery of
86 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
the Primal Causes. As Imagination may soar
aloft, and find new worlds, yet lose the solid truth
so thou mayest rise into the regions of a pre-
ternatural lore, yet recede darklier and darklier
from the clue to Nature herself."
I mused over the words of the Spirit, but their
sense seemed dim.
" Canst thou not appear to me in thine old,
wan, and undulating brightness ?" said I, after a
pause.
" Not until thine eyes receive power to be-
hold me."
" And when may I be worthy that power ?"
" When thou art thoroughly dissatisfied with
thy present gifts."
" Dread Demon, I am so now !"
" Wilt thou pass from this pleasant state at a
hazard not knowing that which may ensue?
Behold, all around thee is full of glory, and mu-
sical with joy ! Wilt thou abandon that state
for a dark and perilous Unknown ?"
" The Unknown is the passion of him who
aspires to know."
THE MAGICIAN. 87
"
Pause; for it is a dread alternative," said
the Invisible.
"
My heart beats steadily. Come, mine be
the penalty of the desire !"
"
Thy wish is granted," said the Spirit.
Then straightway a pang, quick, sharp, ago-
nizing, shot through my heart. I felt the stream
in my veins stand still, hardening into a con-
gealed substance my throat rattled, I struggled
against the grasp of some iron power. A ter-
rible sense of my own impotence seized me
my muscles refused mywill, my voice fled I
was in the possession of some authority that had
entered, and claimed, and usurped the citadel of
my own self. Then came a creeping of the
flesh, a deadly sensation of ice and utter cold-
ness ;
and lastly, a blackness, deep and solid as
a mass of rock, fell over the whole earth I had
entered DEATH !
From this state I was roused by the voice of
the Demon. "
Awake, look forth ! Thou hast
thy desire ! Abide the penalty !" The dark-
ness broke from the earth ;
the ice thawed from
88 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESA^MIM,
my veins ;
once more my senses were my ser-
vants.
I looked, and behold, I stood in the same spot,
but how changed! The earth was one blue
and crawling mass of putridity ;
its rich verdure,
its lofty trees, its sublime mountains, its glanc-
ing waters, had all been the deceit of my pre-
vious blindness ;
the very green of the grass and
the trees was rottenness, and the leaves (not
each leaf one and inanimate as they seemed to
the common eye) were composed of myriads of
insects and puny reptiles, battened on the cor-
ruption from which they sprang. The waters
swarmed with a leprous life those beautiful
shapes that I had seen in my late delusion were
corrupt in their several parts, and from that cor-
ruption other creatures were generated living
upon them. Every breath of air was not air, a
thin and healthful fluid, but a wave of animal-
culae, poisonous and foetid; (for the Air is the
Arch Corruptor, hence all who breathe die ;
it is
the slow, sure venom of Nature, pervading and
rotting all
things ;) the light of the Heavens was
THE MAGICIAN. 89
the sickly, loathsome glare that steamed from the
universal Death in Life. The tiniest thing that
moved you beheld the decay moving through
its veins, and its corruption, unconscious to
itself, engendered new tribes of life ! The
World was one dead carcass, from which every
thing the World bore took its being. There
was not such a thing as beauty ! there was not
such a thing as life that did not generate from
its own corruption a loathsome life for others !
I looked down upon myself, and saw that my
very veins swarmed with a motelike creation of
shapes, springing into hideous existence from
mine own disease, and mocking the Human
Destiny with the same career of love, life, and
death. Methought it must be a spell, that
change of scene would change. I shut my eyes
with a frantic horror, and I fled, fast, fast, but
blinded ;
and ever as I fled a laugh rang in my
ears, and I stopped not till I was at the feet
of Lyciah, for she was my first involuntary
thought. Whenever a care or fear possessed me,
I had been wont to fly to her bosom, and charm
90 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM,
my heart by the magic of her sweet voice. I was
at the feet of Lyciah I clasped her knees I
looked up imploringly into her face God of my
Fathers ! the same curse attended me still ! Her
beauty was gone. There was no whole, no
one life in that Being whom I had so adored.
Her life was composed of a million lives. Her
stately shape, of atoms crumbling from each
other, and so bringing about the ghastly state of
corruption which reigned in all else around.
Her delicate hues, her raven hair, her fragrant
lips Pah !
What, what was my agony ! I
turned from her again, I shrank in loathing
from her embrace, I fled once more, on on.
I ascended a mountain, and looked down on the
various leprosies of Earth. Sternly I forced my-
self to the task ; sternly I inhaled the knowledge
I had sought; sternly I drank in the horrible
penalty I had dared.
"
Demon," I cried,
"
appear, and receive my
curse !"
"
Lo, I am by thy side evermore," said the
voice. Then I gazed, and, behold, the Fire was
THE MAGICIAN. 91
by my side ;
and I saw that it was the livid light
that the jaws of Rottenness emits ;
and in the
midst of the light, which was as its shroud and
garment, stood a Giant shape that was the shape
of a Corpse that had been for months buried.
I gazed upon the Demon with an appalled yet un-
quailing eye, and, as I gazed, I recognized in those
ghastly lineaments a resemblance to the Female
Spirit that had granted me the first fatal gift.
But exaggerated, enlarged, dead, Beauty rotted
into Horror.
" I am that which thou didst ask to see face
to face. I am the Principle of Life."
" Of Life !
Out, horrible mocker ! hast thou
no other name ?"
" I have ! and the other name is COR-
RUPTION !"
"
Bright Lamps of Heaven," I cried, lifting
my eyes in anguish from the loathly Charnel of
the Universal Earth; "and is this, which men
call '
Nature,' is this the sole Principle of the
World ?"
As I spoke, the huge carcass beneath my feet
92 THE TALE OF KOSEM KESAMIM.
trembled. And over the face of the corpse be-
side me there fell a fear. And lo ! the Heavens
were lit up with a pure and glorious light, and
from the midst of them there came forth AVoice,
which rolled slowly over the face of the charnel
earth as the voice of thunder above the valley of
the shepherd.
"
SUCH," said the Voice,
" is
NATURE, IF THOU ACCEPTEST NATURE AS THE
FIRST CAUSE SUCH is THE UNIVERSE WITHOUT
A GOD !"
ON THE
PASSION FOR THE UNIVERSAL.
ON THE
PASSION FOR THE UNIVERSAL.
WHEN I was a younger man than I am now, I
was smitten by that ambition for the Universal,
not uncommon perhaps in versatile and lively
imaginations, which easily master whatever they
attempt, and which find therefore labour only a
triumph to their self-esteem. I held it as a
doctrine, that the mind in its utmost perfection
must not be utterly ignorant of any species of
human knowledge or accomplishment within its
reach, and that the body being a part of us, and
that part most prominent and visible, had also a
legitimate right to its careful education, for we are
96 ON THE PASSION
not all soul. The frame should indeed be the
servant of the mind but neglect or scorn the
slave too much, and he rebels, and may become
the tyrant in his turn. The notion of this all-
accomplishment, mental and corporeal, is an old
one it is one upon which the character of the
Ancient Nations, and of Athens especially, was
formed. Alcibiades and Pericles were but in-
carnations of the genius of their country. But, in
truth, the task of circling the round of knowledge
was more practicable two thousand years ago
than it is now: books were few, speculations
contracted, learning flowed with a mighty stream
but not from numerous sources. All the fruits
of the Divine Tree were near at hand to the
wanderer, and not scattered- as they are at pre-
sent, in myriad grafts, over the surface of the
globe. If this was their advantage in the men-
tal, so in the corporeal education, the life which
the ancients led their habits and their customs
so entirely dissimilar from the indolent apathy
of modern times, were well suited to perfect all
the faculties, and to gift with all the graces.
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 97
The bath and the gymnasium, which made a
necessary part of their existence, served, with-
out an effort, to harmonize, to strengthen, and
to embellish. Their very habit of existence
brought them beauty. Again ;
the laws which
at Athens were referred entirely to the people
who had to decide not more upon their taxes
and their ministers, than upon refinements in
music or innovations at the theatre to approve
the new statue, and consider the ornaments of
the projected temple served to diffuse the po-
pular attention, not over all the vulgar neces-
saries, but all the sublimer arts and elegancies of
life : it was necessary to have an eye to grace,
an ear to poetry, a nerve to beauty, in order to
discharge the daily duties of a citizen. In all
things the people were made critics and gentle-
men by being in all things legislators and um-
pires. Absolute liberty produced universal ge-
nius. The stir and ferment, and astonishing
activity of those old republics, forced Intellect
almost beyond Nature. Their very corruption
fostered divine seeds, and the creatures it gene-
rated were gods.
VOL. II. F
98 ON THE PASSION
These causes combined gave to our ancient
models that character of " the all-accomplished,"
which the moderns, under different circum-
stances of society, can never but imperfectly
attain.
The division of labour has become necessary
to a vast and complex order of civilization, and,
no longer living in petty cities, but overpopu-
lated nations, one man cannot hope successfully
to unite the poet, the soldier, the philosopher,
the artist, the critic; the oracle of one sex, and
the idol of the other.* The true character of the
Universal has passed away for ever. It is for-
tunate for us that the world, somewhat early and
somewhat roughly, rouses us from this ambition,
too excursive for common purposes, if
pursued too
long* and, that, settled betimes to the pursuit of
one career, or to the mastery of one art, we
accustom ourselves not to chase the golden
apples which lure us from our goaL
* Prior says elegantly enough to Lord Bolingbroke, who,
of all modern public men, approached the nearest to the
character of the Alcibiades,
" Men respect you, and women
love 'you."
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 99
Yet for a short time, at least, this passion has
its uses which last throughout our lives : without
aiming in youth at the acquisition of many
things, we should scarcely in manhood attain
perfection in one. Insensibly, through a wide
and desultory range, we gather together the vast
hoard of thoughts, and images of practical il-
lustrations of life of comparisons of the multi-
form aspects of Truth, whether in men or books,
which are the aids and corroborants and embel-
lishments of the single and sole pursuit to which
we finally attach ourselves.
We are thus in no danger of becoming the
machines of the closet or the feasters upon one
idea. Each individual research Lito which we
have entered may not have been carried to a
sufficient depth to open a separate mine. But
the broad surface we have ploughed up yields
us an abundant harvest. To an active mind it
is astonishing what use may be made of every
the pettiest acquisition. Gibbon tells us with
solemn complacency of the assistance he de-
rived to his immortal work the sieges and the
r2
100 ON THE PASSION
strategy it expounds from having served in
the Militia ! A much wider use of accomplish-
ment is to be found in the instance of Milton :
what a wonderful copiousness of all knowledge,
seemingly the most motley, the most incon-
gruous, he has poured into his great poem !
Perhaps there is no mighty river of genius
which is not fed by a thousand tributary streams.
Milton is indeed an august example of the
aspiration to the Universal. This severe re-
publican, who has come down to the vulgar gaze
in colours so stern though so sublime had in
his early tendencies all that most distinguishes
our ideal of the knight and cavalier. No man
in these later days was ever by soul and nature
so entirely the all-accomplished and consummate
gentleman. Beautiful in person courtly in
address skilled in the gallant exercise of arms
a master of each manlier as each softer art
versed in music in song in the languages of
Europe the admired gallant of the dames and
nobles of Italy the cynosure of all eyes
" that
rained influence and adjudged" he, the destined
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 101
Dante of England, was the concentration of our
dreams of the Troubadour and the reality of the
imaginary Crichton. In his later life we find
the haughty patriot recurring, with a patrician
pride, to all the accomplishments he had mas-
tered the sword as well as lute ;
and if we
could furnish forth the outline of the education
he prescribes as necessary to others, we should
have no reason to complain that the versatility
and the range of Athenian genius had passed
away.*
* In his letter to Master Samuel Hartlib, Milton
does indeed startle even the most ambitious of modern
scholars. After declaring, in his own stately manner,
that he calls
" a complete and generous education that
which fits a man to perform justly, skilfully, and mag-
nanimously, all' (I) the offices of peace and war (!)"
he proceeds to chalk out a general outline of rational
studies for young gentlemen between twelve and
twenty-one :
Grammar, arithmetic, agriculture, na-
tural history, geometry, astronomy, geography, forti-
fication, architecture, engineering, navigation, history
of meteors, minerals, plants, and living creatures, as
far as anatomy, and the art of medicine. All this to be
assisted by the "
helpful experiences of hunters,
fowlers, fishermen, shepherds, gardeners, apothecaries,
architects, engineers, miners, anatomists." And the
102 ON THE PASSION
Yet this Greek yearning after all lore, not
only that instructs, but embellishes, invariably
exposes us, with the vulgar, to two charges
superficiality and frivolity the last accusations
which we are likely to deserve. Perhaps no
men are more superficial in their views than
above, by-the-by, before the tyro enters the " rural
part of Virgil !" Then come ethics, theology, politics,
law, as delivered first by Moses, and,
" as far as hu-
man prudence can be trusted, Lycurgus, Solon,
Zaleucus, Charondas," and thence " to all the Roman
edicts and tables, with their Justinian, and so down
to the Saxon and common laws of England, and the
statutes." Join to this French, Italian, Latin, Greek
Hebrew;
" whereto it would be no impossibility to add
the Chaldee and the Syrian dialect." Thus accom-
plished, the pupils are to be made poets, authors,
orators ; and, instead of cricket, in play-hours, they
are " to serve out the rudiments of soldiership, in all
the skill of embattling, marching, encamping, forti-
fying, besieging, and battering ;" besides trips after
the first two or three years; [after which Milton
gravely declares he would not be much for their study-
ing (!)] to our navy to learn the practical knowledge
of sailing and sea-fight. If all this would not make
universal scholars, it would certainly make the most
universal little dunces.
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 103
those who cultivate one branch of learning, and
only one branch ; perhaps no men are less su-
perficial than those who know the outlines of
many. A man, indeed, who in letters or states-
manship, cultivates only one pursuit, can rarely
master it thoroughly. It is
by eternal com-
parisons of truth with truth, that we come to
just and profound conclusions; the wider the
range of comparisons, the more accurate our
inferences. There is an experience of the in-
tellect as well as of the observation, which never
can be well attained by exclusive predilections
and confined circles.
We find, therefore, in all the deepest masters
of the human heart, or of the hrman mind, an
amazingly searching and miscellaneous appetite
for knowledge of all sorts, small or great. The
statesman who wrote the "Prince," wrote also
comedies and a novel a treatise on the military
Art and poetry without end. Goethe was a
botanist as well as a poet and a philosopher.
Shakspeare seems, by the profuse allusions,
"enamelling with pied flowers his thoughts of
104 ON THE PASSION
gold,"* to have diligently learnt all that his age
permitted to one self-educated and not versed
betimes in the ancient languages or the physical
sciences yet even of these latter he had taught
himself something. You find in him meta-
phors borrowed from the mechanical arts of
life. It was an universal smattering which helped
him to be profound. No less universal, no less
accomplished, was Bacon, who may be called the
Shakspeare of philosophy. With the same pen
which demolished the Aristotelism of the school-
men, he writes a treatise on the laws, a cure for
the gout the translation of a psalm, and an
essay on plantations. The men who, on the con-
trary, are so careful to avoid the Superficial
who plummet only one source of learning, and
think that, in order to penetrate to its depth, no
time can be spared to sport over other foun-
tains, are usually shallow and headstrong theo-
rists.
They go round and round in a narrow
circle, and never discover the outlet. Such a
man was that pedant mentioned by Boyle, who
* Sir P. Sidney.
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 105
had devoted his whole life to the study of a
single mineral, and who owned he had not as-
certained a hundredth part of its properties.
These men are not only superficial, they are
the truly frivolous they grow so wedded to
their one pursuit, that its pettiest and most in-
significant details have a grandeur in their eyes.
They are for ever poring over the animalculse
on the one leaf of the Eden tree: they cannot see
things that are large they are spending their
lives in the midst of the prodigal world in con-
sidering the hundredth part of the properties of
a mineral !
Vulgar minds often mistake for frivolities
what are but the indications of ", certain refine-
ment which pervades the whole character, and
leaves its stamp upon small things as on great.
Most remarkable men have one predominant
passion of the intellect strongly developed, which
pursues its object into minutise. Thus with
Goethe, that singular affection for order or har-
mony which made him the greatest literary
artist that ever lived, displayed itself in the
F 5
106 ON THE PASSION
neatness of his hand-writing in his care of the
nice arrangement of his furniture and papers
in his hatred to see even a blot of ink upon a
manuscript. All this regard to trifles was not
frivolity it was a trait of character it belonged
to the artist : without it he would not have had
the habit of mind which made him what he was.
We may detect the same traits in a smaller
degree in Pope. With him it was less the love
of order than of neatness (a part of order.)
In most poets the strongest intellectual passion
is the love of beauty: and this often displays
itself in the elegance of domestic detail. *****
fastidious in the flow of a curtain, is not frivo-
lous he but manifests the same taste which
gives him his acumen in works of art, and
polishes to an excess of smoothness the ivory
mechanism of his verse.
But this love of beauty in all its aspects is
strongest in those whose early years have passed
in the attempt to cultivate every faculty and
excel in every pursuit. The students of the
Universal acquire an almost intuitive instinct
FOR THE UNIVERSAL. 107
into the fluent harmony of things. Their early
ambition opens to them a thousand sources
of enjoyment. Wherever there is excellence
they feel all the rapture of admiration. A land-
scape, a picture, a statue, a gem, a fine horse,
a palace, the possessions of others if worthy
to be admired their sense of enjoyment makes
their own, while they regard; sympathy, for
the moment, appropriates them, and becomes the
substitute of envy.
We all flatter ourselves in our favourite ten-
dencies, and, for my own part, I may deceive
myself as to the nature of mine but I consider
that to love the Beautiful in all things,' to sur-
round ourselves, as far as our means permit,
with all its evidences, not only elevates the
thoughts and harmonizes the mind, but is a sort
of homage that we owe to the gifts of God and
the labours of man. The Beautiful is the Priest
of the Benevolent.
Yet, the ambition of the Universal is neither
safe nor prudent, unless we cultivate some one
pursuit above all the rest, making the others
only its ministrants or its reliefs. If we know a
108 ON THE PASSION FOR THE UNIVERSAL.
little of every thing, it will not do to write upon
every thing but choosing that career of imagi-
nation or of thought for which we feel ourselves
most fitted, and making this our main object, all
the rest that we know or enjoy, illustrates and
enlarges the scope of our chief design. It was wise
in Milton, or in Homer, to pour the choicest of
their multiform lore into their poems ;
but they
might have been justly termed superficial had
they written separate essays upon each division
of knowledge which they prove themselves to
have cultivated. Far from complaining that
life is too long, I honour the frankness of the
old sage, who, living to a hundred, said his only
regret was to die so soon. So vast is the mind
of man, so various its faculties, so measureless
the range of observation to feed and to elicit his
powers, that if we had lived from the birth of the
world till now, we could not have compassed a
millionth part of that which our capacities,
trained to the utmost, would enable us to
grasp. It requires an eternity to develope all
the elements of the soul !
FERDINAND FITZROY,
OR
TOO HANDSOME FOR ANY THING.
FERDINAND FITZROY,
OR
TOO HANDSOME FOR ANY THING.
" MY dear friend," said I, the other day, to a
mother who was expressing her anxiety that
her son should be as handsome as herself
" Believe me, that if
beauty be a fatal gift for
women, it is an inconvenient one to men. A
handsome face is very much against a young
gentleman destined to the professions. An at-
torney takes an instinctive dislike to an Adonis
of a barrister. What prudent man would like
112 FERDINAND FITZROY.
Antinous for his family physician? The envy
of our sex (much more jealous than yours) will
not acknowledge wisdom unless it has a snub
nose. When Apollo came to earth the highest
employment he could obtain was that of a
shepherd."
"
Pooh," replied my fair friend " Has it not
been well said, that a handsome face is a letter
of recommendation?"
" It is a Bellerophon letter, madam, and be-
trays while it recommends. Permit me to tell
you the history of Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy."
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was one of those
models of perfection of which a human father
and mother can produce but a single example.
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was therefore an only
son. He was such an amazing favourite with
both his parents that they resolved to ruin him ;
accordingly, he was exceedingly spoiled, never
annoyed by the sight of a book, and had as
much plum-cake as he could eat.
Happy would
it have been for Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy could
he always have eaten plum-cake, and remained
FERDINAND FITZROY. 113
a child. "
Never," says the Greek Tragedian,
" reckon a mortal happy till
you have witnessed
his end." A most beautiful creature was Mr.
Ferdinand Fitzroy ! Such eyes such hair
such teeth such a figure such manners, too,
and such an irresistible way of tying his
neckcloth ! When he was about sixteen, a
crabbed old uncle represented to his parents
the propriety of teaching Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy
to read and write. Though not without some
difficulty, he convinced them, for he was ex-
ceedingly rich, and riches in an '"ncle are won-
derful arguments respecting the nurture of a
nephew whose parents have nothing to leave
him. So our hero was sent to school. He was
naturally a very sharp, clever boy; and he
came on surprisingly in his learning. The
schoolmaster's wife liked handsome children.
" What a genius will Master Ferdinand Fitzroy
be, if
you take pains with him !" said she, to
her husband.
"
Pooh, my dear, it is of no use to take pains
with him"
114 FERDINAND FITZROY.
" And why, love ?"
" Because he is a great deal too handsome
ever to be a scholar."
"That's true enough, my dear!" said the
schoolmaster's wife.
So, because he was too handsome to be a
scholar, Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy remained the
lag of the fourth form !
They took our hero from school. " What
profession shall he follow?" said his mother.
"
My first cousin is the Lord Chancellor,"
said his father,
" \et him go to the bar."
The Lord Chancellor dined there that day :
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was introduced to him ;
his Lordship was a little, rough-faced, beetle-
browed, hard-featured man, who thought beauty
and idleness the same thing and a parchment
skin the legitimate complexion for a lawyer.
" Send him to the bar !" said he,
"
no, no,
that will never do ! Send him into the army ;
he is much too handsome to become a lawyer."
" That's true enough, my Lord !" said the
mother. So they bought Mr. Ferdinand Fitz-
FERDINAND FITZROY. 115
roy a cornetcy in the Regiment of Dra-
goons.
Things are not learned by inspiration. Mr.
Ferdinand Fitzroy had never ridden at school,
except when he was hoisted; he was, therefore,
a very indifferent horseman; they sent him to
the riding-school, and everybody laughed at
him.
" He is a d d ass !" said Cornet Horse-
phiz, who was very ugly; "A horrid puppy!"
said Lieutenant St. Squintem, who was still
uglier;
" If he does not ride h^ter, he will
disgrace the regiment !" said Captain Rivalhate,
who was very good-looking;
" If he does not
ride better, we will cut him !" said Colonel
Everdrill, who was a wonderful martinet ;
" I
say, Mr. Bumpemwell, (to the riding-master,)
make that youngster ride less like a miller's
sack."
"
Pooh, sir, he will never ride better."
" And why the d 1 will he not?"
" Bless you, Colonel, he is a great deal too
handsome for a cavalry officer !"
116 FERDINAND FITZROY.
" True !" said Cornet Horsephiz.
"
Very true !" said Lieutenant St. Squintem.
" We must cut him !" said the Colonel.
And Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was accordingly
cut.
Our hero was a youth of susceptibility he
quitted the regiment, and challenged the
Colonel. The Colonel was killed !
" What improper behaviour in Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy !" said the Colonel's relations.
"
Very true !" said the world.
The parents were in despair !
They were
not rich; but our hero was an only son, and
they sponged hard upon the crabbed old uncle !
" He is very clever," said they both,
" and
may do yet."
So they borrowed some thousands from the
uncle, and bought his beautiful nephew a seat
in Parliament.
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was ambitious, and
desirous of retrieving his character. He fagged
like a dragon conned pamphlets and reviews
got Ricardo by heart and made notes on the
English Constitution.
FERDINAND FITZROY. 117
^
He rose to speak.
" What a handsome fellow!" whispered one
member.
"
Ah, a coxcomb !
"
said another.
" Never do for a speaker !" said a third, very
audibly.
And the gentlemen on the opposite benches
sneered and heared !
Impudence is
only indi-
genous in Milesia, and an orator is not made in
a day. Discouraged by his reception, Mr. Fer-
dinand Fitzroy grew a little embarrassed.
" Told you .so !" said one of his neighbours.
"
Fairly broke down !
"
said another.
" Too fond of his hair to have any thing in
his head," said a third, who was considered a
wit.
"
Hear, hear !" cried the gentlemen on the
opposite benches.
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy sat down he had not
shone ; but, in justice, he had not failed. Many
a first-rate speaker had made a less flourishing
commencement; and many a county member
had been declared a phoenix of promise upon
half his merit.
118 FERDINAND FITZROY.
Not so, thought the heroes of corn laws.
" Your Adonises never make orators !
"
said
a crack speaker with a wry nose.
" Nor men of business either," added the
chairman of a committee, with a face like a
kangaroo's.
" Poor devil !" said the civilest of the set.
" He's a deuced deal too handsome for work !
By Jove, he is going to speak again this will
never do ;
we must cough him down !
"
And Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was accordingly
coughed down.
Our hero was now seven or eight and twenty,
handsomer than ever, and the admiration of all
the young ladies at Almack's.
" We have nothing to leave you," said the
parents, who had long spent their fortune, and
now lived on the credit of having once enjoyed
it.
" You are the handsomest man in London ;
you must marry an heiress."
" I will," said Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy.
Miss Helen Convolvulus was a charming
young lady, with a hare-lip and six thousand a-
FERDINAND FITZROY. 119
year. To Miss Helen Convolvulus then our
hero paid his addresses.
Heavens ! what an uproar her relations made
about the matter. "
Easy to see his inten-
tions," said one :
" a handsome fortune-hunter,
who wants to make the best of his person!"
" handsome is that handsome does," says an-
other; "he was turned out of the army, and
murdered his Colonel ;"
" never marry a
beauty," said a third; "he can admire none
but himself;" "will have so many mistresses,"
said a fourth ;
" make you perpetually jealous,"
said a fifth; "spend your fortune," said a
sixth ;
" and break your heart," said a seventh.
Miss Helen Convolvulus was prudent and
wary. She saw a great deal of justice in what
was said; and was sufficiently contented with
liberty and six thousand a-year, not to be highly
impatient for a husband; but our heroine had
no aversion to a lover ; especially to so hand-
some a lover as Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy. Ac-
cordingly she neither accepted nor discarded
him; but kept him on hope, and suffered him
120 FERDINAND F1TZROV.
to get into debt with his tailor, and his coach-
maker, on the strength of becoming Mr. Fitzroy
Convolvulus. Time went on, and excuses and
delays were easily found; however, our hero
was sanguine, and so were his parents. A
breakfast at Chiswick, and a putrid fever, carried
off the latter, within one week of each other ;
but not till
they had blessed Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy, and rejoiced that they had left him so
well provided for.
Now, then, our hero depended solely upon the
crabbed old uncle and Miss Helen Convolvulus ;
the former, though a baronet and a satirist,
was a banker and a man of business : he looked
very distastefully at the Hyperion curls and
white teeth of Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy.
" If I make you my heir," said he " I expect
you will continue the bank."
"
Certainly, sir !" said the nephew.
"
Humph !" grunted the uncle,
" a pretty
fellow for a banker !"
Debtors grew pressing to Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy, and Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy grew press-
FERDINAND F1TZROY. 121
ing to Miss Helen Convolvulus. " It is a dan-
gerous thing," said she, timidly, "to marry a
man so admired, will you always be faithful?"
"
By heaven !" cried the lover
"Heigho!" sighed Miss Helen Convolvulus1
,
and Lord Rufus Pumilion entering, the con-
versation was changed.
But the day of the marriage was fixed; and
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy bought a new curricle.
By Apollo, how handsome he looked in it ! A
month before the wedding-day the uncle died.
Miss Helen Convolvulus was* 'quite tender in
her condolences " Cheer up, my Ferdinand,"
said she,
" for your sake, I have discarded Lord
Rufus Pumilion !"
" Adorable condescension !"
cried our hero; "but Lord Rufus Pumilion is
only four feet two, and has hair like a peony."
" All men are not so handsome as Mr. Fer-
dinand Fitzroy !
"
was the reply.
Away goes our hero, to be present at the
opening of his uncle's will.
" I leave," said the testator, (who, I have be-
fore said, was. a bit of a satirist,) "my share of
VOL. II. G
122 FERDINAND FITZROY.
the bank, and the whole of my fortune, legacies
excepted, to" (here Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy
wiped his beautiful eyes with a cambric hand-
kerchief, exquisitely brode)
"
my natural son,
John Spriggs, an industrious, pains-taking youth,
who will do credit to the bank. I did once in-
tend to have made my nephew Ferdinand my
heir; but so curly a head can have no talent
for accounts. I want my successor to be a man
of business, not beauty; and Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy is a great deal too handsome for a
banker ;
his good looks will, no doubt, win him
any heiress in town. Meanwhile, I leave him,
to buy a dressing-case, a thousand pounds."
" A thousand devils !" cried Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy, banging out of the room. He flew to
his mistress. She was not at home. "
Lies,"
says the Italian proverb,
" have short legs ;"
but truths, if
they are unpleasant, have terribly
long ones ! The next day Mr. Ferdinand Fitz-
roy received a most obliging note of dismissal.
" I wish you every happiness," said Miss
Helen Convolvulus, in conclusion "but my
FERDINAND FITZROY. 123
friends are right; you are much too handsome
for a husband !
"
And the week following, Miss Helen Convol-
vulus became Lady Rufus Pumilion !
" Alas !
sir," said the bailiff, as a day or two
after the dissolution of Parliament, he was
jogging along with Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy, in a
hackney coach bound to the King's Bench,
" Alas ! sir, what a pity it is to take so hand-
some a gentleman to prison !"
G 2
THE NEW PILEDO,
OR
CONVERSATIONS
ON THINGS HUMAN AND DIVINE,
WITH ONE CONDEMNED.
Ti ovv 8jj effriv OTTO "tnrev o dffyp irpb rov Bavdrov ;
nal TTW?
f\vra ; rfiftas yap &t> lattuffifUt
Plat. Phad.I.
THE NEW PHJEDO,
CONVERSATIONS ON THINGS HUiMAN AND DIVINE,
WITH ONE CONDEMNED.
I HAVE always loved the old form of Dialogue ;
riot, indeed, so much for investigating truth, as
for speaking t)f truths after i in easy yet not un-
critical or hasty fashion. More familiar than the
Essay, more impressed with the attraction of in-
dividual character, the Dialogue has also the
illustrious examples of old to associate the class
to which it belongs with no common-place or
ignoble recollections. It may perhaps be still
possible to give to the lighter and less severe
philosophy, a form of expression at once drama-
tic and unpedantic. I have held, of late, some
conversations, that do not seem to me altogether
uninteresting, with a man whom I have long
128 THE NEW PH^EDO.
considered of a singular and original character.
I have obtained his permission to make these
conversations public. They are necessarily of a
desultory character they embrace a variety of
topics they are marked and individualized only
by that poetical and half-fantastic philosophy
which belongs to my friend, and that melancholy
colouring which befits a picture that has Death
in the background. If they should appear now
too florid now too careless in their diction,
I can only say that they faithfully represent the
tone of conversation, that in excited moments is
the characteristic of the principal speaker.
Would that, while I retail the inanimate words, I
could convey to the reader the aspect, the ex-
pression, the smile, the accents low and musical,
that lent their meaning all its charm. As it is,
they would remain altogether untold, wr
ere it
not for my friend's conviction that the seal is set
upon the limit of his days, and did I not see suf-
ficient evidence in his appearance to forbid me
to hope that he can linger many months beyond
the present date. To his mind, whatever be its
THE NEW PH.EDO. 129
capacities, its cultivation, its
aspirings, all ma-
tured and solid offspring is forbidden. These
fugitive tokens of all he acquired, or thought, or
felt, are, if we read aright human probabilities,
the sole testimony that he will leave behind him ;
not a monument, but at least a few leaves scat-
tered upon his grave. I feel a pain in writing
the above words, but will he ? No ! or he has
wronged himself. He looks from the little inn
of his mortality, and anticipates the long summer
journey before him ; he repines not to-day that
he must depart to-morrow. '
On Saturday last, November 13th, I rode to
L *s habitation, which is some miles from my
own home. The day was cold enough, but I
found him with the windows of his room open,
and feeding an old favourite in the shape of a
squirrel, that had formerly been a tame companion.
L , on arriving at his present abode, had
released it ;
but it came from the little copse in
front of the windows every day to see its former
master, and to receive some proof of remem-
brance from his good-natured hospitality,
o5
130 THE NEW PH^EDO.
CONVERSATION THE FIRST.
THE UNIVERSALITY OF EVIL IN THE WORLD IS NO LESS VISIBLE IN
THE LESSER CREATURES THAN IN MAN THE HOPE OF PERFEC-
TIBILITY- CHANGE IN THE TEMPERAMENT OF L WHAT IS
PLEASANT WHEN RECALLED IS OFTEN WEARISOME WHEN ACTED
LOVE THE INFLUENCE OF CUSTOM ON THE CONNUBIAL STATE
SOCIETY EXACTS IN PROPORTION AS IT IS PREPARED TO ADMIRE
L 's SADNESS DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN WIT AND HUMOUR
LOVE OF CONVERSATIONAL ARGUMENT LESS IN VOGUE THAN
FORMERLY OUR INABILITY TO CONCEIVE THE NATURF. OF OUR
HAPPINESS HEREAFTER ANECDOTE OF FUSELI PLATO QUOTA-
TION FROM LORD HERBERT OF CHERBURY THE SENTIMENT THAT
OUR FACULTIES CANNOT CONTENT THEMSELVES IN THIS LIFE
VISIBLE IN THE WORKS OF GENIUS THIS SENTIMENT MORE
COMMON IN THE ENGLISH THAN THE CONTINENTAL POETS THE
SPIRITUALITY OF GOETHE'S GENIUS OBSERVATION IN THE
WILHELM MEISTER SCOTT'S POETRY GREATER THAN HIS PROSE
THE PAINTER BLAKE AND HIS ILLUSTRATION OF THE NIGHT
THOUGHTS YOUNG HIS GLOOM SPREADS ONLY OVER THIS
WORLD, WITHOUT DARKENING THE NEXT.
" AFTER all," said L ,
"
though the short
and simple annals of the poor are often miser-
THE NEW PHvEDO. 131
able enough, no peasant lives so wretched a
life as the less noble animals, whom we are
sometimes tempted to believe more physically
happy. Observe how uneasily this poor wretch
looks around him. He is subject to perpetual
terror from a large Angola cat, which my house-
keeper chooses to retain in our domestic service,
and which has twice very nearly devoured my
nervous little hermit In how large a proportion
of creatures is existence composed of one ruling
passion the most agonizing of all sensations
Fear ! No ; human life is but a Rembrandt kind
of picture at the best ; yet we have no cause to
think there are brighter colours in the brute
world. Fish are devoured by intestinal worms ;
birds are subject to continual diseases, some of
a very torturing nature. Look at yon ant-hill,
what a melancholy mockery of our kind what
eternal wars between one hill and another what
wrong what violence ! You know the red ants
invade the camps of the black, and bear off the
young of these little negroes to be slaves to their
victors. When I see throughout all nature the
132 THE NEW PH^DO.
same miseries, the same evil passions, whose
effects are crime with us, but whose cause is
instinct with the brutes, I confess there are mo-
ments when I feel a sort of despondence of our
ultimate doom in this world : when I am almost
inclined to surrender the noblest earthly hope
that man ever formed, and which is solely the
offspring of modern times the hope of human
perfectibility."
A. You have inclined, then, to the eloquent
madness of Condorcet and De Stael ! You have
believed, then, in spite of the countless ages be-
fore us, in which the great successions of human
kind are recorded by the Persian epitome of
Universal History,
"
They were born, they were
wretched, they died !"
you have believed, de-
spite so long, so uniform, so mournful an ex-
perience, despite, too, our physical conforma-
tion, which, even in the healthiest and the
strongest, subjects the body to so many afflic-
tions, and therefore the temper to so many in-
firmities you have believed that we yet may
belie the past, cast off the slough of crimes, and
THE NEW PUZEDO. 133
gliding into the full light of knowledge, become
as angels in the sight of God you have believed,
in a word, that even on this earth, by progressing
in wisdom we may progress to perfection.
L, What else does the age we live in betoken?
Look around ;
not an inanimate object, not a
block of wood, not a bolt of iron,
" But doth suffer an earth-change
Into something rich and strange."
Wherever man applies his intellect, behold how
he triumphs. What marvellous improvements
in every art, every ornament, every luxury of
life !
Why not these improvements ultimately
in life itself ? Are we " the very fiend's Arch-
mock," that we can reform every thing, save that
which will alone enable us to enjoy our victory
the human heart ? In vain we grasp all things
without, if we have no command over the things
within. No ! Institutions are mellowing into a
brighter form; with Institutions the Character will
expand : it will swell from the weak bonds of our
foibles and our vices ;
and if we are fated never
134 THE NEW PHvEDO.
to become perfect, we shall advance at least, and
eternally, towards perfectibility. The world
hath had two Saviours one divine, and one
human ;
the first was the Founder of our reli-
gion, the second the propagator of our know-
ledge. The second, and I utter nothing profane,
it ministers to the first the second is the
might of the PRESS. By that, the Father of all
safe revolutions, the Author of all permanent
reforms by that, man will effect what the First
ordained the reign of peace, and the circulation
of love among the great herd of man.
A. Our conversation has fallen on a topic
graver than usual; but these times give, as it
were, a solemn and prophetic tone to all men
who think, and are not yet summoned to act. I
feel as if I stood behind a veil stretched across
another and an unknown world, and waited in
expectation, and yet in awe, the hand that was
to tear it
away.
L. Ay, I envy you at times, (but not always,)
the long and bright career, that, for the first
time in the world, is opened to a wise man's
THE NEW PH^EDO. 135
ambition; you may live to tread it; you have
activity and ardour ; and, whether you fall or
rise, the step forward you will at least adven-
ture. But I am a bird chained, and the mo-
ment my chain is broken my course is heaven-
ward and not destined to the earth. After all,
what preacher of human vanities is like the
Flesh, which is yet their author ? Two years
ago my limbs were firm, my blood buoyant
how boundless was my ambition ! Now my con-
stitution is gone and so perish my desires of
glory. You and I, A , entered the world
together ;
A. Yes, yet with what different tempers !
L. True: you were less versatile, more re-
served, more solidly ambitious, than myself;
your tone of mind was more solemn, mine more
eager : life has changed our dispositions, because
it has altered our frames. That was a merry
year, our first of liberty and pleasure ! but
when the sparkle leaves the cup how flat is the
draught ; society is but the tinkling cymbal, and
the gallery of pictures, the moment we dis-
136 THE NEW PHJEDO.
cover that it hath no love. What makes us so
wise as our follies ? the intrigues, the amours,
that degrade us while enacted, enlighten us
when they are passed away. We have been led,
as it were, by the pursuit of a glittering insect
to the summit of a mountain, and we see the
Land of Life stretched below.
A. Yet shall we not exclaim, with Boileau,
" Souvent de tous nos maux la raison est le pire ?"
These delusions were pleasant
L. To remember they were wearisome and
unprofitable while we actually indulged them ;
a
man plays the game of women with manifold
disadvantages if he bring any heart to the con-
test: if he discover, with Marmontel's Alci-
biades, that he has not been really loved, how
deeply is he wounded if he have been really
loved how bitterly may he repent !
Society is at
war with all love except the connubial ;
and that
love, how soon does it
pass into the atmosphere
of common-place ! It loses its charm with me
the moment I remark, which I always do re-
THE NEW PH^DO. 137
mark, that though the good pair may be very
kind to each other on the whole, they have sacri-
ficed respect to that most cruel of undeceivers,
Custom. They have some little gnawing jest
ac each other ; they have found out every mu-
tual weakness; and, what is worse, they have
found out the sting to it.
" The breath of the
south can shake the little rings of the vine," and
the picture preserves no more " the colours and
the beauties of kindness."* The only interesting
and, if I may contradict Rochefoucault, the only
delicious marriages are those in which the hus-
band is wise enough to see very little of his
wife ;
the absence of the morning prevents ennui
in the evening, and frequent separations conquer
the evil charm of Custom.
A. Thus it is that an ardent imagination so
often unfits us for the real enjoyments of domes-
tic attachment custom blunts the imagination
*
Jeremy Taylor, in that most divine sermon on the
"
Marriage King/' which contains more knowledge of
the mysteries of love and the true philtres wherewith
it is preserved, than can be found in all that the love
poets ever wrote.
138 THE NEW PFLEDO.
more than it wearies the temper. But you had
some bright moments in your first year of the
world I remember you the admired of all, the
admirer of how many ?
L. I was young, rich, well born; and I had
an elastic and gay temper. See all my claims
to notice ! But the instant my high spirits
forsook me, society cooled. It is not quite
true that adventitious claims alone, unless of
the highest order, give one a permanent place
in the charmed circle of the Armidas of our
age. Society is a feast where every man must
contribute his quota, and when our seat at
the table is noted as the home of silence and
gloom, we are soon left to enjoy our medita-
tions alone. Besides, the secret of fashion
is to surprise, and never to disappoint. If you
have no reputation for wit, you may succeed
without it ;
if
you have, people do not forgive
you for falling below their expectations; they
attribute your silence to your disdain ; they see
the lion, and are contented to go away ; to abuse
him, and to see him no more.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 139
A. I have often been surprised to remark you
so contented with silence, whom I have known
in some circles so shall I say? brilliant
L. There is no mystery in my content, it is
in spite of myself. I have always preached up
the morality of being gay ;
if I do not practise
it, it is because I cannot. About two years
ago my spirits fled suddenly me. In vain I
endeavoured to rally them : in vain to force my-
self into the world in vain " I heard music,
and wooed the smile of wq nen ;" a sort of
stupor seized and possessed me I have never
in mixed society been able, since that time,
to shake it off; since then, too, I have slowly
wasted away without any visible disease, and
I am now literally dying of no disorder but
the inability to live.
Speaking of wit, I met at a dinner a few
months ago M and W I , and
two or three other persons, eminent, and de-
servedly, both for wit and for humour. One
of them, I think M , said, somebody or
other had wit but no humour ;
it was asserted,
140 THE NEW PH^EDO.
on the other hand, that the person spoken of
had humour but no wit I asked the disputants
to define the difference between wit and humour,
and of course they were struck dumb.
A. No rare instance of the essence of dispute,
which consists in making every one allow what
nobody understands.
L. Perhaps so; but really, to understand a
thing thoroughly, is less necessary than you or I
think for. Each of the disputants knew very
well what he meant, but he could not explain ;
the difference was clear enough to serve bis own
mind as a guide, but, not being analyzed, it was
not clear enough to be of use to others. Wit is
the philosopher's quality, by the way humour
the poet's ; the nature of wit relates to things,
humour to persons. Wit utters brilliant truths,
humour delicate deductions from the knowledge
of individual character : Rochefoucault is witty,
the Vicar of Wakefield is the model of humour.
A. While you define I could dispute your de-
finition shall I ?
L. Not in conversation, we shall end in talk-
THE NEW PHLEDO. 141
ing nonsense; metaphysical disputes on paper
are very well, but spoken disputes are only good
in special pleading.
A. When we were at Cambridge together,
do you remember how the young pedants of our
time were wont to consider that all intellect
consisted in puzzling or setting down each
other.
L. Ay, they thought us very poor souls, I
fancy, for being early wise, and ridiculing what
they thought so fine ; but that love of conversa-
tional argument is less the mode now than in our
grandfathers' time; then it made a celebrity.
You see the intellectual Nestors of that time
still very anxious to engage you. G is
quite offended with me for refusing to argue
Helvetius's system with him in a close carriage.
"
Strangulat inclusus dolor atque exsestuat intus.'
A. The true spirit of conversation consists in
building on another man's observation, not over-
turning it ; thus, the wit says,
"
apropos of your
remark ;" and the disagreeable man exclaims, "I
cannot agree with you."
142 THE NEW PH.EDO.
Here our discourse was interrupted by the en-
trance of a female relation of L 's ;
she came
with his medicine, for though he considers him-
self beyond human aid, he does not affect to
despise the more sanguine hopes of those at-
tached to him. "Let them think," said he,
" that they have done all they could for me :
my
boat is on the water, it is true, but it would be
ill-natured if I did not loiter a little on the strand.
It seems to me, by the way, a singular thing that,
among persons about to die, we note so little of
that anxious, intense, restless curiosity to know
what will await them beyond the grave, which,
with me, is powerful enough to conquer regret.
Even those the most resigned to God, and the
most assured of Revelation, know not, nor can
dream, of the nature of the life, of the happi-
ness, prepared for them. They know not how
the senses are to be refined and sublimated into
the faculties of a Spirit ; they know not how they
shall live, and move, and have their being; they
know not whom they shall see, or what they
shall hear ; they know not the colour, the capa-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 143
city of the glories with which they are to be
brought face to face. Among the many man-
sions, which is to be theirs ? All this, the mat-
ter of grand and of no irreverent conjecture ;
all
this, it seems to me, so natural to revolve all
this I revolve so often, that the conjecture incor-
porates itself into a passion, and I am impatient
to pass the Ebon Gate, and be lord of the Eternal
Secret. Thus, as I approach nearer to death,
Nature, and the Face of Things, assume a more
solemn and august aspect. I look upon the
leaves, and the grass, and the water, with a sen-
timent that is
scarcely mournful ;
and yet I know
not what else it
may be called, for it is
deep,
grave, and passionate, though scarcely sad. I
desire, as I look on those, the ornaments and
children of earth, to know whether, indeed, such
things I shall see no more whether they have
no likeness, no archetype in the world in which
my future home is to be cast ; or whether they
have their images above, only wrought in a more
wondrous and delightful mould. Whether, in
the strange land that knoweth neither season
144 THE NEW PH^EDO.
nor labour, there will not be, among all its
glories, something familiar. Whether the heart
will not recognize somewhat that it has known,
somewhat of " the blessed household tones,"
somewhat of that which the clay loved and the
spirit is reluctant to disavow. Besides, to one
who, like us, has made a thirst and a first love
of knowledge, what intenseness, as well as divi-
nity, is there in that peculiar curiosity which re-
lates to the extent of the knowledge we are to
acquire ! What, after all, is Heaven but a tran-
sition, from dim guesses and blind struggling
with a mysterious and adverse fate, to the ful-
ness of all wisdom from ignorance, in a word,
to knowledge but knowledge of what order ?
Thus, even books have something weird and
mystic in their speculations, which, some years
ago, my spirit was too encumbered with its
frame to recognize for what of those specula-
tions shall be true what false ? How far has
our wisdom gone toward the arcanum of a true
morality ; how near has some daring and erratic
reason approached to the secret of circulating
THE NEW PH^EDO. 145
happiness round the world. Shall He, whom
we now contemn as a visionary, be dis-
covered to have been the inspired prophet of
our blinded and deafened race ;
and shall He,
whom we now honour as the lofty saint, or the
profound teacher, be levelled to trie
propagator
and sanctifier of narrow prejudices ; the reasoner
in a little angle of the great and scarce-discovered
universe of Truth ;
the moral Chinese, suppos-
ing that his Empire fills the map of the world,
and placing under an interdict the improvements
of a nobler enlightenment ?
A. But to those and how many are there ?
who doubt of the future world itself, this solace
of conjecture must be but a very languid and
chilled exertion of the mind.
L. I grant it. I am not referring to the herdy
whether of one faith or another, or of none. I
have often pleased myself with recalling an anec-
dote of Fuseli a wonderful man, whose capa-
cities in this world were only a tithe part deve-
loped ;
in every thing of his, in his writings as
well as his paintings, you see the mighty intel-
VOL. II. H
146 THE NEW PHJEDO.
lect struggling forth with labour and pain, and
with only a partial success; and feeling this
himself feeling this contest between the glo-
rious design and the crippled power I can
readily penetrate into his meaning in the
reply I am about to repeat. Some coxcomb
said to him,
" Do you really believe, Mr.
Fuseli, that I have a soul ?" " I don't know,
sir," said Fuseli,
" whether you have a soul or
no, but, by God ! I know that / have." And
really, were it not for the glorious and all-cir-
cling compassion expressed by our faith, it would
be a little difficult to imagine that the soul, that
title-deed to immortality, were equal in all
equal in the dull, unawakened clod of flesh which
performs the offices that preserve itself, and no
more, and in the bright and winged natures with
which we sometimes exalt our own, and which
seem to have nothing human about them but
the garments (to use the Athenian's* familiar
metaphor,) which they wear away. You will
*
Socrates.
THE NEW PH.EDO. 147
smile at my pedantry, but one of the greatest
pleasures I anticipate in arriving at home as
the Moravian sectarians so endearingly call
Heaven is to see Plato, and learn if he had
ever rested, as he himself imagined, and I am
willing to believe, in a brighter world before
he descended to this. So bewitching is the
study of that divine and most Christian genius,
that I have often felt a sort of jealous envy
of those commentators who have devoted years
to the contemplation of that mystical and
unearthly philosophy. My ambition had I
enjoyed health would never have suffered
me to have become so dreaming a watcher
over the lamp in another's tomb : but my ima-
gination would have placed me in an ideal
position, that my restlessness forbade me in
reality. This activity of habit, yet love of li-
terary indolence this planning of schemes and
conquests in learning, from which one smile
from Enterprise would decoy me, when scarce
begun, made C call me, not unaptly,
" the
most extraordinary reader he ever knew
H 2
148 THE NEW PH^EDO.
in theory" 1 see, by-the-by, that you are lean-
ing upon the " Life of Lord Herbert of Cher-
bury" will you open the page in which I have
set a mark? We were speaking of the soul, and
that page expresses a very beautiful, and elo-
quent, if not very deep sentiment, on the subject.
Will you read it ?
A. Certainly, "As in my mother's womb,*
that formatrix which formed my eyes, ears, and
other senses, did not intend them for that dark
and noisome place but, as being conscious of a
better life, made them as fitting organs to appre-
hend and perceive those things which occur in
this world, so I believe, since my coming into
this world, my soul hath formed or produced
certain faculties, which are almost as useless for
this life as the above named senses were for the
mother's womb ;
and these faculties are Hope,
Faith, Love, and Joy, since they never rest or
* I am not sure that I retail this passage verbatim.
I committed it to memory, and (writing in the country)
I cannot now obtain the book by which to collate my
recollection.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 149
fix on any transitory or perishing object in this
world as extending themselves to something
farther than can be here given, and, indeed, ac-
quiescing only in the perfect Eternal andx
In-
finite."
L. It is fine is it not ?
A. Yes. It is a proof that the writer has felt
that vague something which carries us beyond
the world. To discover the evidence of that
feeling, is one of my first tasks in studying a
great author. How solemnly it burns through
Shakspeare ! with what a mournful and austere
grandeur it thrills through the yet diviner Mil-
ton ! how peculiarly it has stamped itself in the
pages of our later poets Wordsworth, Shelley,
and even the more alloyed and sensual, and less
benevolent verse of Byron. But this feeling is
rarely perceptible in any of the Continental poets,
except, if I am informed rightly, the Germans.
L. Ay ;
Goethe has it. To me there is some-
thing very mysterious and .spiritual about
Goethe's genius even that homely and plain
sense with which, in common with all master-
150 THE NEW PHUEDO. ''*.>
*
t
'''
^i
minds, he so often instructs us, and which is
especially evident in his Memoirs, is the more
effective from some delicate and subtle beauty
of sentiment with which it is always certain to
be found in juxtaposition.
A. I remember a very delicate observation of
his in " Wilhelm Meister," a book which had a
very marked influence upon my own mind ;
and
though the observation may seem common-place,
it is one of a nature very peculiar to Goethe :
"
When," he remarks,
" we have despatched a
letter to a friend which does not find him, but
is brought back to us, what a singular emotion
is
produced by breaking open our own seal, and
conversing with our altered self as with a third
person."
L. There is something ghost-like in the con-
ference, something like a commune with one's
wraith.
A. You look in vain among the works of Scott
for a remark like that.
L, Is the accusation fair ? You look in vain
in the " Wilhelm Meister" for the gorgeous
THE NEW PHJEDO. 151
painting of " Ivanhoe." But I confess myself
no idolater of the "
Waverley" novels; nor can
I subscribe to the justice of advancing them
beyond the wonderful poetry that preceded them.
All Scott's merits seem to me especially those
of a poet; and when you come to his prose
writings, you have the same feelings, the same
descriptions, the same scenes, with the evident
disadvantage of being stripped of a style of-
verse peculiarly emphatic, burning, and ori-
ginal. Where, in all the novels, is there a scene
that, for rapidity, power, and the true lightning
of the poet, if I may use the phrase, equals, that
in "
Rokeby," not often quoted now, in which
Bertrand Risingham enters the church
" The outmost crowd have heard a sound,
Like horse's hoof on harden'd ground," &c.
Rokeby, Canto 6, stanza 32.
A scene, very celebrated for its compression
and bold painting, is to be found in the " Bride
of Abydos"
" One bound he made, and gain'd the strand."
Bride of Abydos, Canto 2, stanza 24.
152 THE NEW PHJEDO.
Compare the two. How markedly the com-
parison is in favour of Scott. In a word, he
combines in his poetry all the merits of his
prose ;
and the demerits of the latter the trite
moral, the tame love, the want of sympathy
with the great herd of man, the aristocratic and
kingly prejudice, either vanish from the poetry
or assume a graceful and picturesque garb. I
venture to prophesy that the world will yet dis-
cover that it has overrated one proof of his
mighty genius, at the expense of injustice to
another. Yes, his poetry burns wifch its own
light. A reviewer in the " Edinbro'
"
observes,
that " in spirit, however different in style,
Shakspeare and Scott convey the best idea of
Homer." The resemblance of Shakspeare to
Homer I do not, indeed, trace ;
but that of Scott
to the Great Greek, I have often and often
noted. Scott would have translated Homer
wonderfully, and in his own ballad metre.
* * * #
* * * *
A. Of all enthusiasts, the painter Blake seems
THE NEW PH^EDO. 153
to have been the most remarkable. With what
a hearty faith he believed in his faculty of seeing
spirits and conversing with the dead ! And what
a delightful vein of madness it was with what
exquisite verses it
inspired him !
L. And what engravings ! I saw, a few days
ago, a copy of the "
Night Thoughts," which he
had illustrated in a manner at once so grotesque,
so sublime now by so literal an interpretation,
now by so vague^and disconnected a train of in-
vention, that the whole makes one of the most
astonishing and curious productions which ever
balanced between the conception of genius and
the raving of insanity. I remember two or three
of his illustrations, but they are not the most
remarkable. To these two fine lines
" Tis greatly wise to talk with our past Hours,
And ask them what report they bore to heaven ;"
he has given the illustration of one sitting and
with an earnest countenance conversing with a
small, shadowy shape at his knee, while other
shapes, of a similar form and aspect, are seen
H 5
154 THE NEW PHJEDO.
gliding heavenward, each with a scroll in its
hands. The effect is very solemn. Again, the
line
*
" Till Death, that mighty hunter, earths them all,"
is bodied forth by a grim savage with a huge
spear, cheering on fiendish and ghastly hounds,
one of which has just torn down, and is griping
by the throat, an unfortunate fugitive : the face
of the hound is unutterably death-like.
The verse
" We censure Nature for a span too short,"
obtains an illustration, literal to ridicule. A
bearded man of gigantic stature is
spanning an
infant with his finger and thumb. Scarcely less
literal, but more impressive, is the engraving of
the following:
" When Sense runs savage, broke from Reason's chain,
And sings false peace till smother'd by the pall !"
You perceive a young female savage, with long
locks, wandering alone, and exulting while
above, two bodiless hands expand a mighty pall,
THE NEW PH^EDO. 155
that appears about to fall
upon the unconscious
rejoicer.
A. Young was fortunate. He seems almost
the only poet who has had his mere metaphors
illustrated and made corporeal.
L. What wonderful metaphors they are ;
some-
times trite, familiar, common-place sometimes
exaggerated and fantastic, but often how ineffably
sublime ! Milton himself has not surpassed
them. But Ybung is not done justice to, po-
pular as he is. He has never yet had a critic
to display and make current his most peculiar
and emphatic beauties.
A. We can, to be sure, but ill
supply the
place of such a critic; but let us, some day or
other, open his "
Night Thoughts" together,
and make our comments.
L. It will be a great pleasure to me. Young
is, of all poets, the one to be studied by a man
who is about to break the golden chains that
bind him to the world his gloom, then, does
not appal or deject : for it is a gloom that settles
on the earth we are about to leave, and casts not
156 THE NEW PHJEDO.
a single shadow over the heaven which it con-
trasts the dark river of his solemn and dread
images sweeps the thoughts onward to Eternity.
We have no desire even to look behind; the
ideas he awakens are, in his own words,
" the
pioneers of Death ;" they make the road broad
and clear ; they bear down those " arrests and
barriers," the Affections; the goal, starred and
luminous with glory, is
placed full before us;
every thing else, with which he girds our path,
afflicts and saddens. We recoil, we shudder at
life; and, as children that in tears and agony
at some past peril bound forward to their mo-
ther's knee, we hasten, as our comfort and our
parent, to the bosom of Death.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 157
CONVERSATION THE SECOND.
L S INCREASE OF ILLNESS REMARKS ON A PASSAGE IN BACON
ADVANTAGES IN THE BELIEF OF IMMORTALITY AN IDEA IN THE
LAST CONVERSATION FOLLOWED OUT A CHARACTERISTIC OF THE
SUBLIME FEELINGS IN ONE DYING AT THE RESTLESSNESS OF LIFE
AROUND.
WHEN I called on L the third day after the
conversation I have attempted to record, though
with the partial success that must always attend
the endeavour to retail dialogue on paper, I
found him stretched on his sofa, and evidently
much weaker than when I had last seen him,
He had suffered the whole night from violent
spasms in the chest, and, though now free from
pain, was labouring under the exhaustion which
follows it. But nothing could wholly conquer
158 THE NEW PH^DO.
in him a certain high-wrought, rather than
cheerful, elasticity of mind ;
and in illness it was
more remarkable than in health ;
for I know not
how it was, but in illness his thoughts seemed to
stand forth more prominent, to grow more trans-
parent, than they were wont in the ordinary state
of the body. He had also of late, until his pre-
sent malady, fallen into an habitual silence, from
which only at moments he could be aroused.
Perhaps now, however, when all his contempla-
tions were bounded to a goal apparently near at
hand, and were tinged with the grave (though
in him not gloomy) colours common to the
thoughts of death that secret yearning for sym-
pathy that desire to communicate inherent in
man, became the stronger, for the short date that
seemed allowed for its indulgence. Wishes
long hoarded, reflections often and deeply re-
volved, finding themselves cut off from the dis-
tant objects which they had travailed to acquire,
seemed wisely to lay down their burthen, and
arrest their course upon a journey they were
never destined to complete.
" I have been
THE NEW PKLEDO. 159
reading," said L , (after we had conversed
for some minutes about himself )
" that divine
work on '
The Advancement of Learning.' What
English writer (unless it be Milton in his prose
works) ever lifted us from this low earth like
Bacon ? How shrink before his lofty sentences
all the meagre consolation and trite common-
place of lecturers and preachers, it is, as he
has beautifully expressed it, upon no 'waxen
wings' that he urges the mind through the
great courses of heaven. He makes us feel less
earthly in our desires, by making us imagine
ourselves wiser, the love of a divine knowledge
inspires and exalts us. And so nobly has he
forced even our ignorance to contribute towards
enlarging the soul towards increasing our long-
ings after immortality that he never leaves us,
like other philosophers, with a sense of self-
littleness and dissatisfaction. With the same
hand that limits our progress on earth, he points
to the illimitable glories of heaven. Mark how
he has done this in the passage I will read to
you. As he proceeds in his sublime vindication
160 THE NEW PH^DO.
of Knowledge,
'
from the discredits and disgraces
it hath received all from ignorance, but igno-
rance, severally acquired, appearing sometimes
in the zeal and jealousy of divines : sometimes
in the severity and arrogance of politicians;
sometimes in the errors and imperfections of
learned men themselves;' proceeding, I say, in
this august and majestical defence, he states the
legitimate limits of knowledge, as follows :
*
first, that we do not so place our felicity in
knowledge, as to forget our mortality ; secondly,
that we make application of our knowledge, to
give ourselves repose and contentment, not dis-
taste or repining ; thirdly, that we do not pre-
sume, by the contemplation of Nature, to attain
to the mysteries of God.' After speaking of the
two first limits, he comes as follows to the last.
'
And for the third point, it deserveth to be a
little stood upon, and not to be lightly passed
over; for if
any man shall think, by view and
inquiry into these sensible and material things,
to attain that light, whereby he may reveal unto
himself the nature or will of God, then indeed is
THE NEW PH^EDO. 161
he spoiled by vain philosophy ;
for the contem-
plation of God's creatures and works produceth
(having regard to the works and creatures
themselves) knowledge ; but (having regard to
God) no perfect knowledge, but wonder, which
is broken knowledge. And therefore, (note how
wonderfully this image is translated, and how
beautifully applied,) it was most aptly said by
one of Plato's school, 'that the sense of man
carrieth a resemblance with the sun, which, as
we see, openeth and revealeth all the terrestrial
globe ;
but then again it obscureth the stars and
celestial globe : so doth the sense discover natu-
ral things, but it darkeneth and shutteth up
divine.'
"
Tell me now, and speak frankly, not
misled by the awe and antique splendour of the
language alone, tell me whether you do not
feel, in the above passages, not humbled by your
ignorance, but transported and raised by its
very
conviction ; for, by leaving the mysteries of hea-
ven, and heaven alone ; unpenetrated by our
knowledge, what do we, in reality, but direct
the secret and reverent desires of our hearts to
162 THE NEW PHJ2DO.
that immortal life, which shall put the crown
upon the great ambition of knowledge, and re-
veal those mysteries which are shut out from us
in this narrow being ? Here then there is no-
thing to lower our imagination, nothing to
chill us in the ardour of our best aspirings,
nothing to disgust us with the bounds of know-
ledge, or make us recoil upon ourselves with the
sense of vanity, of emptiness, of desolation. It is
this the peculiar prerogative of the conviction
of our inborn immortality, to take away from us
that bitterness at the checks and arrests of
knowledge, of which the wise of all ages have
complained, to give wings to our thoughts at
the very moment they are stopped on their
earthly course, to ennoble us from ourselves at
the moment when self languishes and droops :
it is this prerogative, I say, which has always
seemed to me the greatest advantage which a
thinking man, who believes in our immortality,
has over one who does not. And though, for-
tunately for mankind, and for all real virtue,
the time is
rapidly passing away for attempting
THE NEW PH.EDO. 163
to measure the conduct of others by the propor-
tion in which their opinions resemble our own,
yet it must be confessed, that he who claims this
prerogative has a wonderful advantage over him
who rejects it in the acquisition of noble and
unworldly thoughts in the stimulus to wis-
dom, and the exalting of the affections, the
visions, and the desires ! It seems to me as if
not only the Form, but the SOUL of Man was
made " to walk erect, and to look upon the
stars."
A. (After some pause.) Whether or not
that it arises from this sentiment, common (how-
ever secretly nursed) to the generality of men '>
this sentiment, that the sublimest sources of
emotion and of wisdom remain as yet unknown,
there is one very peculiar characteristic in all
genius of the highest order ;
viz. even its loftiest
attempts impress us with the feeling, that a
vague but glorious
" SOMETHING" inspired or
exalted the attempt, and yet remains unex-
pressed. The effect is like that of the spire,
which, by insensibly tapering into heaven, owes
164 THE NEW PH^DO.
its pathos and its
sublimity to the secret thoughts
with which that heaven is associated.
L. Yes; and this, which, you say justly, is
the characteristic of the loftiest order of genius,
is that token and test of sublimity so especially
insisted upon by the ancients, who, perhaps, in
consequence of the great scope left by their re-
ligion to inquiry, were more impressed with the
sentiment we speak of, than is common to the
homelier sense, and the satisfied and quiet con-
templations of the moderns. The illustrious friend
of Zenobia* has made it a characteristic of the
true sublime, to leave behind it something more
to be contemplated than is expressed ;
and
again, Pliny, speaking of painters, observes, I
think of Timanthes,
" that in his works some-
thing moref than was painted was understood,
and that when his art was at the highest, the
genius was beyond the art." It is this which
especially designates the poetry of Young.
*
Longin. Sect. 7.
t
" In unius hujus operibus intclligitur plus semper
quam pingitur ; et cum sit ars summa, ingenium tamen
ultra artem est."
THE NEW PHvEDO. 165
A. Whom we were to criticise.
L. Yes ;
but not to-day. My mood is brighter
than that of the poet, whose soul walketh in the
valley of the shadow of death. Let us enter
upon our task, when we can both feel thoroughly
satisfied with the consolations of his gloom, and
forget the darkness around, in the stars "which
he calls to listen."* What news is there stirring
in this lower world ?
Here we talked for some time on the aspect
of affairs, the administration, the disturbances in
the country.'!' I told him of a distinguished
contemporary of ours at Cambridge, who had been
just returned to Parliament. L spoke at
large on his own ambition to enter a public career.
" I think," said he,
" if I had even at this moment
the opportunity to do so, the activity, the zeal,
the stimulus, which the change would produce,
might yet save my life. I feel now, as if certain
* " And call the stars to listen."
Young's Night Thoughts.
t Written in 1831, before the passing of the Reform
Bill.
166 THE NEW PHJEDO.
sources of emotion dammed up, were wasting
my heart away with a. suppressed ebb and flow,
as if all my keenest >enengies were rusting in
their scabbard. I should -apt, were I plunged
into action, have time to die. As it is, I feel,
like the old .-sage^
who covered bis face with
his cloak, and s^ite* himself .down> waiting for
*i
'
i
death. , -.
A. But Why not enter "public life then at once?
L. Look at me. Am I in a state to canvass
some free borough ? tofide here-^-to walk there
to disguise to oustle to feas't to Hatter
to lie?
A. But your relation, Lord L '
?
L. Has offered me a seat if I will support his
party, the old Tories.;
A. And your college friend, N ? .
*
L. Has forgotten me ; yet none more than* he
will grieve, for an hour at -least, when*I am
dead. Let me return to my image of the sage:
and his cloak, I have always thought it one of
the most affecting anecdotes in history. When
Pericles, hearing of the determination of the
THE NEW PH^EDO. 167
philosopher, (who, you remember, was his pre-
ceptor, Ariaxagoras,.) hastened to -the, spot where
he sat, and tarried for the last release ;
he im-
plored the sage in a late and unavailing grief to
struggle with his approaching fate, and to baffle
the gathering death. "
Oh, IJgrjcles," said the
old man, stung by;th memory '6f long neglect,
and in a feeble and- dying voice^ as he just lifted
his face from his 'mantle,
"
they who need the
lamp do not forget to feed it with oil."
Returning to the '-excitement and the anima-
tion of the political world around ;
how strangely
falls the sound of turnwit on the ear of one who
is about tcr die- how strange doth it seem to
behold life so busy and death so near ! It is
this contrast which, I ow% gives me the most
mournful though vague and reluctantly ac-
knowledgedfeelings that I experience; it gives
me.;
a"
dejection, ah. envy; my higher and more
soaring' thoughts desert me, I become sensible
'only of my weakness, of my want of use, in this
world where all are buckling to their armour,
and awaiting an excitation, an enterprise, and a
168 THE NEW PILEDO.
danger. I remember all my old ambition my
former hopes my energies my anticipations;
I see the great tides of action sweep over me,
and behold myself not even wrestling with death,
but feel it gather and darken upon me, unable
to stir or to resist. I could compare myself to
some neglected fountain in a ruined city : amidst
the crumbling palaces of Hope, which have fallen
around me, the waters of life ooze away in silence
and desolation."
L 's voice faltered a little as he spoke,
and his dog, whether, as I often think, there is
in that animal an instinct which lets him know
by a look, by a tone of voice, when the object of
his wonderful fidelity and affection is sad at
heart ;
his dog, an old pointer, that he had che-
rished for many years, and was no less his com-
panion in the closet, than it had been in the
chase, came up to him and licked his hand. I
own this little incident affected me, and the
tears rushed into my eyes. But I was yet more
softened when I saw L 's tears were falling
fast over the honest countenance of the dog; I
THE NEW PUJEDO. 169
knew well what was passing in his mind no
womanly weakness no repining at death ;
of all
men he had suffered most, and felt most keenly,
the neglect and perfidy of friends ; and, at that
moment, he was contrasting a thousand bitter
remembrances with the simple affection of that
humble companion. I never saw L weep
before, though I have seen him in trying afflic-
tions, and though his emotions are so easily ex-
cited that he never utters a noble thought, or
reads a touching sentiment in poetry, but you
may perceive a certain moisture in his eyes, and
a quiver on his lips.
Our conversation drooped after this, and
though I stayed with him for some hours longer,
I do not remember any thing else that day,
worth repeating.
VOL. II.
170 THE NEW PH^DO
CONVERSATION THE THIRD.
THE FRENCH WORLDLY PHILOSOPHERS THE FIRST STEP IN WISDOM
IS TO LEARN TO THINK, NO MATTER HOW THOUGHT CORRECTS
ITSELF BRILLIANT WRITERS LESS DANGEROUS THAN DULL ONES
WHY FAULTS OF CERTAIN PHILOSOPHERS L.... (
THE RE-
SPECTFUL AFFECTION HE EXCITES THE HEART TORNS FROM
DEATH PASSAGE IN BOLINGBROKE PRIVATE LIFE DOES NOT
AFFORD A VENT FOR ALL OUR SUSCEPTIBILITIES A TOUCHING
THOUGHT IN MILTON'S LATIN POEMS REMARKS ON BYRON, AND
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF A TRUE POET FOR THE PRESENT DAY
PORTRAIT OF A HERO IN THE SERVICE OF TRUTH.
I CALLED on L the next day ; K , one
of the few persons he admits, was with him;
they were talking on those writers who have di-
rected their philosophy towards matters of the
world ;
who have reduced wisdom into epigrams,
and given the Goddess of the Grove and the
Portico the dress of a lady of fashion. "
Never,
THE NEW PH^EDO. 171
perhaps," said K ,
" did Virtue, despite the
assertion of Plato, that we had only to behold
in order to adore her, attract so many disciples
to wisdom as Wit has done. How many of us
have been first incited to reason, have first learned
to think, to draw conclusions, to extract a moral
from the follies of life, by some dazzling aphor-
ism from Rochefoucault or La Bruyere ! Point,
like rhyme, seizes at once the memory and the
imagination : for my own part, I own frankly, that
I should never have known what it was to re-
flect I should never have written on Political
Economy I should never have penetrated into
the character of my rogue of a guardian, and
saved my fortune by a timely act of prudence
I should never have chosen so good a wife
nay, I should never have been L 's friend,
if I had not, one wet day at Versailles, stum-
bled upon Rochefoucault's Maxims: from that
moment / thought, and I thought very errone-
ously and very superficially for some time, but
the habit of thinking, by degrees, cures the
faults of its
noviciateship ;
and I often bless
i 2
172 THE NEW PH^EDO.
Rochefoucault as the means which redeemed me
from a life of extravagance and debauchery,
from the clutches of a rascal, and made me fond
of rational pursuits and respectable society. Yet
how little would Rochefoucault's book seem, to
the shallow declaimer on the heartlessness of its
doctrines, calculated to produce so good an effect.
A. Yes, the faults of a brilliant writer are
never dangerous on the long run, a thousand
people read his work who would read no other ;
inquiry is directed to each of his doctrines, it
is soon discovered what is sound and what is
false ; the sound become star-lights, and the false
beacons. But your dull writer is little conned,
little discussed. Debate, that great winnower
of the corn from the chaff, is denied him; the
student hears of him as an authority, reads him
without a guide, imbibes his errors, and retails
them as a proof of his learning. In a word, the
dull writer does not attract to wisdom those in-
disposed to follow it : and to those who are dis-
posed he bequeaths as good a chance of inheriting
a blunder as a truth.
L. I will own to you very frankly that I have
THE NEW PH^EDO. 173
one objection to beginning to think, from the
thoughts of these worldly inquirers. Notwith-
standing Rochefoucault tells us himself, with so
honest a gravity, that he had " les sentimens
beaux," and that he approved
" extremement les
belles passions," his obvious tendency is not to
ennoble ;
he represents the Tragi-comedy of the
Great World, but he does not excite us to fill
its grand parts ;
he tells us some of the real
motives of men, but he does not tell us also
the better motives with which they are en-
twined, and by cultivating which they can be
purified and raised. This is what I find, not to
blame, but to lament, in most of the authors
who have very shrewdly, and with a felicitous
and just penetration, unravelled the vices and
errors of mankind. I find it in La Bruyere, in
Rochefoucault, even in the more weak and
tender Vauvenargues, whose merits have, I
think, been so unduly extolled by Dugald
Stewart ;
I find it in Swift, Fielding, (admirable
moralist as the latter indubitably is in all the
lesser branches of morals,) and, among the
174 THE NEW PJLffiDO.
ancients, who so remarkable for the same want
as the sarcastic and inimitable Lucian ? But
let us not judge hastily ;
this want of nobleness,
so to speak, is not necessarily the companion of
shrewdness. But mark, where we find the noble
and the shrewd united, we acknowledge at once a
genius of the very highest order; we acknow-
ledge a Shakspeare, a Tacitus, a Cervantes.
A. Another characteristic of the order of
writers we refer to is this they are too apt to
disregard books and to write from their own ex-
perience ;
now an experience, backed upon some
wide and comprehensive theory, is of incalcu-
lable value to Truth ; but, where that theory is
wanting, the experience makes us correct in
minute points, but contracted, and therefore in
error, on the whole ;
for error is but a view of
some facts instead of a survey of all.
L. In a word, it is with philosophers as with
politicians ;
the experience that guides the indi-
viduals must be no rule for the community.
And here I remember a fine and just comparison
of the Emperor Julian's :
speaking of some one
THE NEW PHLEDO. 175
who derived knowledge from practice rather
than principle, he compares him to an empiric
who, by practice, may cure one or two diseases
with which he is familiar ; but having no sys-
tem, or theory of art, must necessarily be igno-
rant of the innumerable complaints which have
not fallen under his personal observation. Yet
now, when a man ventures to speak of a com-
prehensive and scientific theory, in opposition to
some narrow and cramped practice, he who
in reality is the physician,
" he is exclaimed
against as the quack."
Shortly after this part of our conversation,
K went away, and we talked on some mat-
ters connected with L 's
private and house-
hold affairs. By degrees, while our commune
grew more familiar and confidential, and while
the shades of these long winter evenings gathered
rapidly over us, as we sate alone by the fire,
L spoke of some incidents in his early his-
tory and I who had always felt a deep interest
in even the smallest matter respecting him, and,
despite ourintimacy, was unacquainted with many
particulars of his life, in which I fancied there
176 THE NEW PH^DO.
must be something not unworthy recital, press-
ed him earnestly to give me a short and frank
memoir of his actual and literary life. Indeed,
I was anxious that some portion of the world
should know as much as may now be known of
one who is of no common clay, and who, though
he has not numbered many years, and has
passed some of those years in the dissipation and
pleasure common to men of his birth and wealth,
is now, at least, never mentioned by those who
know him without a love bordering on idolatry,
and an esteem more like the veneration we feel for
some aged and celebrated philosopher, than the
familiar attachment generally felt for those of
our own years and of no public reputation.
" As to my early LIFE," said L , smiling
in answer to my urgent request,
" I feel that it
is but an echo of an echo. I do not refuse,
however, to tell it you, such as it is ;
for it may
give food to some observations from you more
valuable than the events which excite them;
and, as to some later epochs in my short career,
it will comfort me, even while it wounds, to
speak of them. Come to me, then, to-morrow.
THE NEW PH2EDO. 177
and I will recall in the mean while what may
best merit repeating in the memoir you so in-
considerately ask for. But do not leave me yet,
dear A . Sit down again let us draw
nearer to the fire How many scenes have we
witnessed in common how many enterprises
have we shared ! let us talk of these, and to-mor-
row shall come my solitary history :
self, self,
the eternal self let us run away from it one
day more. Could you but know how forcibly it
appears to me, that as life wanes the affections
warm ;
I have observed this in many instances
of early death ; early, for in the decay by years
the heart outlives all its ties. As the physical
parts stiffen, so harden the moral. But in
youth, when all the Affections are green within
us, they will not willingly perish ; they stretch
forth their arms, as it were, from their ruined
and falling prison-house they yearn for ex-
pansion and release. '
Is it,' as that divine,
though often sullied nature, at once the lumi-
nary and the beacon to English statesmen, has
somewhere so touchingly asked,
'
is it that we
i 5
178 THE NEW PH^EDO.
grow more tender as the moment of our great
separation approaches, or is it that they who
are to live together in another state (for friend-
ship exists not but for the good) begin to feel
more strongly that divine sympathy which is to
be the great bond of their future society ?
' " *
I could have answered this remark by an allu-
sion to the change in the physical state ;
the re-
laxation of illness ;
the helplessness we feel when
sick, and the sense of dependence, the desire to
lean somewhere, that the debility of disease oc-
casions. But I had no wish to chill or lower the
imaginative turn of reasoning to which L
was inclined, and after a little pause he continued :
" For men who have ardent affections, there
seems to me no medium between public life and
dissatisfaction. In public life those affections
find ample channel; they become benevolence,
or patriotism, or the spirit of party or, finally,
attaching themselves to things, not persons, con-
centrate into ambition. But in private life,
who, after the first enthusiasm of passion de-
parts, who, possessed of a fervent and tender
*
Bolingbroke's Letters to Swift.
THE NEW PH^EDO. J 79
soul, is ever contented with the return it meets ?
A word, a glance, chills us ;
we ask for too keen
a sympathy; we ourselves grow irritable that
we find it not -the irritability offends ;
that is
attributed to the temper which in reality is the
weakness of the heart accusation, dispute,
coldness, succeed. We are flung back upon our
own breasts, and so comes one good or one
evil we grow devout or we grow selfish. De-
nied vent among our fellows, the affections find
a refuge in heaven, or they centre in a peevish
and lonely contraction of heart, and self-love be-
comes literally, as the forgotten LEE has ex-
pressed it
generally,
'
The axletree that darts through all the frame.'
This inevitable alternative is more especially to
be noted in women ;
their affections are more
acute than ours, so also is their disappoint-
ment. It is thus you see the credulous fondness
of the devotee, or the fossilized heart of the
solitary crone, where, some thirty years back,
you would have witnessed a soul running over
with love for all things and the yearning to be
180 THE NEW PH-EDO.
loved again ! Ah !
why, why is it that no
natures are made wholly alike ? why is it that, of
all blessings, we long the most for sympathy ?
and of all blessings it is that which none (or the
exceptions are so scanty as not to avail) can say,
after the experience of years and the trial of
custom, that they have possessed. Milton, whose
fate through life was disappointment disap-
pointment in his private ties and his public at-
tachments Milton, who has descended to an un-
thinking posterity as possessing a mind, however
elevated, at least austere and harsh, has, in one
of his early Latin poems, expressed this senti-
ment with a melancholy and soft pathos, not
often found in the golden and Platonic richness
of his youthful effusions in his own language
'
Vix sibi quisque parem de millibus invenit unum ;
Aut si fors dederit tandem non aspera votis
Ilium inopina dies qua non speraveris hora
Surripit eternum linquens in saecula damnum.' *
*
Thus prosaically translated : .
." Scarce one in thousands meets a kindred heart ;
Or, if no harsh fate grant, at last, his dreams,
Swift comes the unforeboded Doom ; and lo,
Leaves to all time the everlasting loss !"
THE NEW PHJEDO. 181
" And who is there that hath not said to him-
self, if
possessed for a short time of one heart,
entirely resembling and responding to his own,
who has not said to himself daily and hourly,
'
This cannot last !
'
Has he not felt a dim,
unacknowledged dread of death? has he not,
for the first time, shrunk from penetrating into
the future? has he not become timorous and
uneasy? is he not like the miser who journeys
on a road begirt with a thousand perils, and
who yet carries with him his all ? Alas ! there
was a world of deep and true feeling in Byron's
expression, which, critically examined, is but a
conceit. Love '
hath, indeed, made his best in-
terpreter a sigh.'
"
A. Say what we will of Lord Byron, and
thinking men are cooh'ng from the opinion first
passed upon him, no poet hath touched upon
more of the common and daily chords of our
nature.
/,. His merits have Undoubtedly been erro-
neously ranked and analysed ;
and the just cri-
ticism of them is yet to come. Nothing stems' to
182 THE NEW PH^DO.
me more singular in the history of imitation than
the extraordinary misconception which all Lord
Byron's imitators incurred with respect to the
strain they attempted to echo. The great cha-
racteristics of Lord Byron are vigour and
nerve he addresses the common feelings he
never grows mawkish, nor girlishly sentimental
he never, despite all his digressions, encourages
the foliage to the prejudice of the fruit. What
are the characteristics of all the imitators?
they are weak they whine they address no
common passion they heap up gorgeous words
they make pyramids of flowers they abjure
vigour they talk of appealing
" to the few
congenial minds" they are proud of weary-
ing you, and consider the want of interest
the proof of a sublime genius. Byron, when
he complains, is the hero who shows his
wounds ; his imitators are beggars in the
street, who cry,
" Look at these sores, Sir !"
In the former case there is
pathos, because
there is admiration as well as pity ;
in the latter
there is disgust, because there is at once con-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 183
tempt for the practised whine and the feigned
disease. A man who wishes now to succeed in
poetry must be imbued deeply with the spirit of
this day, not that of the past : he must have
caught the mighty inspiration which is breath-
ing throughout the awakened and watchful
world : with enthusiasm he must blend a com-
mon and plain sense; he must address the
humours, the feelings, and the understandings
of the middle as well as the higher orders ;
he
must find an audience in Manchester and Liver-
pool. The aristocratic gloom, the lordly misan-
thropy, that Byron represented, have perished
amidst the action, the vividness, the life of these
times. Instead of sentiment, let shrewd wit or
determined energy be the vehicle ; instead of
the habits and modes of a few, let the great in-
terests of the many be the theme.
A. But, in this country, the aristocracy yet
make the first class of readers into whose hands
poetry falls ;
if
they are not conciliated, the book
does not become the fashion if not the fashion,
the middle orders will never read it.
184 THE NEW PH^DO.
L. But can this last ? can it even last long ?
Will there be no sagacious, no powerful critic,
who will drag into notice what can fall only into
a temporary neglect ? I say temporary, for you
must allow that whatever addresses the multi-
tude through their feelings, or their everlasting
interests, must be destined to immortality : the
directors, the lovers of the multitude, glad
of an authority, will perpetually recur to its
pages attention directed to them, fame follows.
To prophesy whether or not, in these times, a
rising author will become illustrious, let me in-
quire only, after satisfying me of his genius,
how far he is the servant of Truth how far he is
willing to dedicate all his powers to her worship
to come forth from his cherished moods of
thought, from the strongholds of mannerism and
style let me see him disdain no species of com-
position that promotes her good, now daring the
loftiest, now dignifying the lowest let me see
him versatile in the method, but the same in the
purpose let him go to every field for the gar-
land or the harvest, but be there one altar for
THE NEW PH^DO. 185
all the produce ! Such a man cannot fail of be-
coming GREAT ; through envy, through neglect,
through hatred, through persecution, he will win
his way ; he will neither falter nor grow sick at
heart ; he will feel, in every privation, in every
disappointment, the certainty of his reward;
he will indulge enthusiasm, nor dread ridicule ;
he will brandish the blade ef satire, nor fear the
enmity he excites. By little and little, men
will see in him who fights through all obstacles
a champion and a leader. When a Principle is
to be struggled for, on him will they turn their
eyes ;
when a Prejudice is to be stormed, they
will look to see his pennant wave the first above
the breach. Amidst the sweeping and gather-
ing Deluge of ages, he shall be saved, for TRUTH
is the indestructible and blessed Ark to which he
hath confided his name !
186 THE NEW PHJEDO.
CONVERSATION THE FOURTH.
CONTAINING L S HISTORY.
IN order to make allowance for much of the
manner and the matter of L 's conversation,
I must beg the reader to observe how largely the
faculties of the imagination enter even into those
channels of his mind from which (were the
judgment thoroughly sound) all that is merely
imaginative would be the most carefully ba-
nished. In L 's character, indeed, whatever
may be his talents, there was always a string
THE NEW PH^EDO. 187
loose, something morbid and vague, which even
in perceiving, one could scarcely contemn, for it
gave a tenderness to his views, and a glow of
sentiment to his opinions, which made us love
him better, perhaps, than if his learning and
genius had been accompanied with a severer
justness of reasoning. For my own part, I, who
despise rather than hate the world, and seldom
see any thing that seems to me, if rightly ana-
lyzed, above contempt, am often carried away in
spite of myself by his benevolence of opinion,
and his softening and gentle order of philosophy.
I often smile, as I listen to his wandering and
Platonic conjectures on our earthly end and
powers, but I am not sure that the smile is in
disdain, even when his reasoning appears the
most erratic.
I reminded L ,
when I next saw him, 01
his promise, in our last conversation, to give me
a sketch of his early history. I wished it to be
the history of his mind as well as his adven-
tures ;
in a word, a literary and moral, as well
as actual narrative, "A MEMOIR OF A STU-
188 THE NEW PH^DO.
DENT." The moment in which I pressed the
wish, was favourable. He was in better spirits
than usual, and free from pain ;
the evening was
fine, and there was that quiet cheerfulness in
the air which we sometimes find towards the
close of one of those mild days that occasionally
relieve the severity of an English winter.
THE CONFESSIONS OF AN AMBITIOUS STUDENT.
" You know," said L , commencing his
story,
" that I was born to the advantages of a
good name and of more than a moderate opu-
lence; the care of my education, for I was an
orphan, devolved upon my aunt, a maiden lady,
of some considerable acquirements and some very
rare qualities of heart. Good old woman ! how
well and how kindly I remember her, with her
high cap and kerchief, the tortoise-shell specta-
cles, that could not conceal or injure the gentle
expression of her eyes eyes above which the
brow never frowned ! How well, too, I remember
THE NEW PH/EDO. 189
the spelling-book, and the grammar, and (as I
grew older) the odd volume of Plutarch's Lives,
that always lay, for my use and profit, on the
old dark table beside her chair. And something
better too, than spelling and grammar, ay, and
even the life of Caius Marius, with that grand
and terrible incident in the memoir which Plu-
tarch has so finely told, of how the intended
murderer, entering the great Roman's hiding-
chamber, (as he lay there, stricken by years and
misfortune,) saw through the dim and solemn
twilight of the room, the eye of the purposed
victim fall like a warning light upon him, while
a voice exclaimed,
'
Darest thou, man, to slay
Caius Marius?' and how the stern Gaul, all
awe-stricken and amazed, dropped the weapon,
and fled from the chamber ; better, I say, even
than spelling and grammar, and these fine le-
gends of old, were certain homely precepts with
which my good aunt was wont to diversify the
lecture. Never to tell a lie, never to do a mean
action, never to forsake a friend, and never to
malign a foe ; these were the hereditary maxims
190 THE NEW PHLEDO.
of her race, and these she instilled into my mind
as something, which if I duly remembered, even
the sin of forgetting how to spell words in
eight syllables might be reasonably forgiven
me.
" I was sent to school when I was somewhere
about seven years old, and I remained at that
school till I was twelve, and could construe
Ovid's Epistles. I was then transplanted to
another, better adapted to my increased years
and wisdom. Thither I went with a notable re-
solution which greatly tended in its consequences
to expand my future character. At my first
academy, I had been so often and so bitterly
the victim of the exuberant ferocity of the elder
boys, that I inly resolved, the moment I was of
an age and stature to make any reasonable sort
of defence, to anticipate the laws of honour, and
never put up, in tranquil endurance, with a blow.
When, therefore, I found myself at a new school,
and at the age of twelve years, I saw (in my
fancy) the epoch of resistance and emancipation,
which I had so long coveted. The third day of
THE NEW PH^EDO. 191
my arrival I was put to the proof; I was struck
by a boy twice my size I returned the blow
we fought, and I was conquered, but he never
struck me again. That was an admirable rule
of mine, if a boy has but animal hardihood ; for,
for one sound beating one escapes at least twenty
lesser ones, with teasings, and tormentings in-
definitely numerous, into the bargain. No boy
likes to engage with a boy much less than him-
self, and rather than do so, he will refrain from
the pleasure of tyrannizing. We cannot, alas !
in the present state of the world, learn too early
the great wisdom of Resistance. I carried this
rule, however, a little too far, as you shall hear.
I had never been once touched, once even chid-
den by the master, till one day, when I was
about fifteen, we had a desperate quarrel, ending
in my expulsion. There was a certain usher
in the school, a very pink and pattern of ushers.
He was harsh to the lesser boys, but he had his
favourites among them fellows who always
called him '
Sir,' and offered him oranges. To
us of the higher school, he was generally cour-
192 THE NEW PHLEDO.
teous, and it was a part of his policy to get him-
self invited home by one or the other of us
during the holidays. For this purpose he
winked at many of our transgressions, allowed
us to give feasts on a half-holiday, and said no-
thing if he discovered a crib* in our possession.
But, oh, to the mistress, he was meekness in
a human shape. Such humble and sleek mo-
desty never appeared before in a pair of drab
inexpressibles and long gaiters. How he praised
her pudding on a Sunday ! how he extolled her
youngest dunce on his entrance into Greek !
how delicately he hinted at her still existent
charms, when she wore her new silk gown at
the parish church ! and how subtly he alluded
to her gentle influence over the rigid doctor.
Somehow or other, between the usher and my-
self there was a feud ;
we looked on each other
not lovingly ;
he said I had set the boys against
him, and I accused him, in my own heart, of
doing me no good service with the fat school-
*
The cant word at schools for a literal translation
of some classic author.
THE NEW PELEDO. 193
mistress. Things at length came to an open
rupture. One evening, after school, the usher
was indulging himself, with one of the higher
boys, in the gentle recreation of a game at
draughts. Now, after school, the school-room
belonged solely and wholly to the boys ;
it was
a wet afternoon, and some half-a-dozen of us
entered into a game, not quite so quiet as that
the usher was engaged in. Mr. com-
manded silence ; my companions were awed
not so myself ;
I insisted on our right to be as
noisy as we would out of school. My eloquence
convinced them, and we renewed the game. The
usher again commanded silence ;
we affected not
to hear him. He rose ;
he saw me in the act of
rebellion.
" '
Mr. L ,' cried he,
'
do you hear me,
Sir? Silence!'
" '
I beg your pardon, Sir ; but we have a
right to the school-room after hours ; especially
of a wet evening.'
" '
Oh !
very well, Sir ; very well ; I shall re-
port you to the Doctor.' So saying, the usher
VOL. II. K
194 THE NEW PH^EDO.
buttoned up his nether garment, which he had
a curious custom of unbracing after school,
especially when engaged in draughts, and went
forthwith to the master. I continued the game.
The master entered. He was a tall, gaunt,
lame man, very dark in hue, and of a stern
Cameronian countenance, with a cast in his
eye.
" '
How is this, Mr. L ?
'
said he, walking
up to me ;
'
how dared you disobey Mr. 's
orders ?
'
" '
Sir ! his orders were against the custom of
the school.'
" '
Custom, Sir ; and who gives custom to
this school but myself? You are insolent, Mr.
L ,
and you don't know what is due to your
superiors.'
" '
Superiors !
'
said I, with a look at the
usher. The master thought I spoke of himself;
his choler rose, and he gave me a box on the
ear.
" All my blood was up in a moment ; never
yet, under that roof, had I received a blow un-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 195
avenged on the spot. I had fought my way in the
school, step by step, to the first ranks of pugi-
listic heroism. Those taller and more peace-
able than myself, hated me, but attacked not ;
these were now around me exulting in my mor-
tification; I saw them nudge each other with
insolent satisfaction ;
I saw their eyes gloat and
their features grin. The master had never be-
fore struck a boy in my class. The insult was
tenfold, because unparalleled. All these thoughts
flashed across me. I gathered myself up, clench-
ed my fist, and, with a sudden and almost un-
conscious effort, I returned, and in no gentle
manner, the blow I had received. The peda-
gogue could have crushed me on the spot ;
he
was a remarkably powerful man. I honour him
at this moment for his forbearance ;
at that mo-
ment I despised him for his cowardice. He
looked thunderstruck, after he had received so
audacious a proof of my contumacy ;
the blood
left, and then gushed burningly back to, his sal-
low cheek. '
It is well, Sir,' said he, at length,
1
follow me !' and he walked straight out of the
K'2
196 THE NEW PH^EDO.
school-room. I obeyed with a mechanical and
dogged sullenness. He led the way into the
house, which was detached from the school-
room; entered a little dingy front parlour, in
which only once before (the eve of my first ap-
pearance under his roof )
had I ever set foot ;
motioned me also within the apartment ; gave
me one stern, contemptuous look ; turned on his
heel ;
left the room ;
locked the door, and I wr
as
alone. At night the maid-servants came in, and
made up a bed on a little black horsehair sofa.
There was I left to repose. The next morning
came at last. My breakfast was brought me,
in a mysterious silence. I began to be affected
by the monotony and dulness of my seclusion. I
looked carefully round the little chamber for a
book, and at length, behind a red tea-tray, I
found one. It was I remember it well it was
Beloe's Sexagenarian. I have never looked into
the book since, but it made considerable impres-
sion on me at the time a dull, melancholy im-
pression, like that produced on us by a rainy,
drizzling day ;
there seemed to me then a stag-
THE NEW PH^DO. 197
nant quiet, a heavy repose about the memoir
which saddened me with the idea of a man
writing the biography of a life never enjoyed,
and wholly unconscious that it had not been en-
joyed to the utmost It is very likely that this
impression is not a just one, and were I to read
the book again, it might create very different
sensations. But I recollect that I said, at some
passage or another, with considerable fervour,
'
Well, I will never devote existence to becoming
a scholar.' I had not finished the book, when
the mistress entered, as if
looking for a bunch of
keys, but in reality to see how I was employed ;
a very angry glance did she cast upon my poor
amusement with the Sexagenarian, and about
two minutes after she left the room, a servant
entered and demanded the book. The reading
of the Sexagenarian remains yet unconcluded,
and most probably will so remain to my dying
day. A gloomy evening and a sleepless night
succeeded ; but early next morning a ring was
heard at the gate, and from the window of my
dungeon, I saw the servant open the gate, and
198 THE NEW PH^DO.
my aunt walk up the little strait ribbon
of gravel, that intersected what was termed
the front garden. In about half an hour after-
wards, the Doctor entered with my poor relation,
the latter in tears. The Doctor had declared
himself inexorable ; nothing less than my expul-
sion would atone for my crime. Now my aunt
was appalled by the word expulsion ; she had
heard of boys to whom expulsion had been ruin
for life ;
on whom it had shut the gates of col-
lege ;
the advantages of connexion ; the fold of
the church ; the honours of civil professions ; it
was a sound full of omen and doom to her ear.
She struggled against what she deemed so last-
ing a disgrace. I remained in the dignity of
silence, struck to the heart by her grief and re-
proaches, but resolved to show no token of
remorse.
" '
Look, Ma'am,' cried the Doctor, irritated
by my obstinacy ;
'
look at the young gentleman's
countenance : do you see repentance there ?'
My aunt looked, and I walked to the window to
hide my face. This finished the business, and I
THE NEW PHLEDO, 199
returned home that day with my aunt ; who saw
in me a future outcast, and a man undone for
life, for want of a proper facility in bearing boxes
on the ear.
" Within a week from that time I was in the
house of a gentleman, who professed not to keep
a school, but to take pupils, a nice distinction,
that separates the schoolmaster from the tutor.
There were about six of us, from the age of fif-
teen to eighteen. He undertook to prepare us
for the University, and with him, in real earnest,
I, for the first time, began to learn. Yes ; there
commenced an epoch both in my mind and
heart, I woke to the knowledge of books and
also of myself. In one year I passed over a
world of feelings. From the child I rose at once
into the man. But let me tell my story metho-
dically ;
and first, as to the education of the intel-
lect. Mr. S was an elegant and graceful
scholar, of the orthodox University calibre) not
deeply learned, but intimately acquainted with
the beauties and the subtleties of the authors he
had read. You know, A ,
what authors an
200 THE NEW PILEDO.
University scholar does read, and those which
he neglects. At this time, it is with those most
generally neglected that I am least imperfectly
acquainted ;
but it was not so then, as you may
suppose. Before I went to Mr. S 's I cer-
tainly had never betrayed any very studious dis-
position ;
the ordinary and hacknied method Of
construing, and parsing, and learning by heart,
and making themes, whose only possible excel-
lence was to be unoriginal, and verses, in which
the highest beauty was a dextrous plagiarism ;
all this had disgusted me betimes, and I
shirked lessons with the same avidity as the
rest of my tribe. It became suddenly different
with Mr. S . The first day of my arrival, I
took up the Medea of Euripides. Into what a
delightful recreation did S manage to con-
vert the task I had hitherto thought so weari-
some, how eloquently he dwelt on each poetical
expression, how richly he illustrated every
beauty by comparisons and contrasts from the
pages of other poets ! What a life he breathed
into the dull lecture ! How glowingly, as if
THE NEW Ptt/EDO. 201
touched by a wand, was the Greek crabbed sen-
tence, hitherto breathing but of lexicons and
grammars, exalted into the freshness and the
glory of the poet !
Euripides was the first of
the divine spirits of old, who taught me to burn
over the dreams of fiction ;
and so great and
deep is
my gratitude, that at this day I read his
plays more often than I do even those of Shak-
speare, and imagine that beauties speak to me
from that little old worn edition, in which I then
read him, that are dumb and lifeless to every
heart but my own. I now studied with a new
frame of mind :
first, I began to admire then
to dwell upon what I admired then to criticise,
or sometimes to imitate. Within two years I had
read and pondered over the works of almost all
the Greek and Latin poets, historians, orators !
the pages of the philosophers alone were shut to
me. The divine lore of Plato, and the hard and
grasping intellect of the Stagyrite, S did
not undertake to decipher and expound. I ex-
cept, indeed, those hacknied and petty portions
of the latter, through which every orthodox
K5
202 THE NEW PH^EDO.
schoolman pushes his brief but unwilling way.
You recollect that passage in Gibbon's Memoirs,
in which he subjoins, with a pedant's pleasing
ostentation, the list of the books he had read, I
think, within a year. Judge of the gratification
to my pride, when, chancing to meet with this
passage, I found that my labours in this depart-
ment had at least equalled those of the triumph-
ant historian.
" I had been little more than a year with
S , and a fit, one bright spring morning,
came over me a fit of poetry. From that time
the disorder increased, for I indulged it; and
though such of my performances as have been
seen by friendly eyes have been looked upon as
mediocre enough, I still believe, that if ever I
could win a lasting reputation, it would be
through that channel. Love usually accom-
panies poetry, and, in my case, there was no ex-
ception to the rule.
" There was a slender, but pleasant brook,
about two miles from S 's house, to which
one or two of us were accustomed, in the sum-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 203
raer days, to repair to bathe and saunter away
our leisure hours. To this favourite spot I one
day went alone, and crossing a field which led
to the brook, I encountered two ladies, with one
of whom, having met her at some house in the
neighbourhood, I had a slight acquaintance.
We stopped to speak to each other, and I saw
the face of her companion. Alas ! were I to
live ten thousand lives, there would never be a
moment in which I could be alone nor sleeping,
and that face not with me !
"
My acquaintance introduced us to each
other. I walked home with them to the house
of Miss D (so was the strange, who was
also the younger, lady named). The next day
I called upon her. The acquaintance thus com-
menced did not drop ; and, notwithstanding our
youth for Lucy D was only seventeen,
and I nearly a year younger we soon loved,
and with a love, which, full of poesy and dream-
ing, as from our age it
necessarily must have
been, was not less durable, nor less heart-felt,
than if it had arisen from the deeper and more
204 THE NEW PKLEDO.
earthly sources from which later life draws its
affections.
" O God ! how little did I think of what
our young folly entailed upon us ! We de-
livered ourselves up to the dictates of our hearts,
and forgot that there was a future. Neither of
us had any ulterior design; we did not think
poor children that we were of marriage, and
settlements, and consent of relations. We
touched each other's hands, and were happy ;
we read poetry together and when we lifted
up our eyes from the page, those eyes met, and
we did not know why our hearts beat so vio-
lently ;
and at length, when we spake of love,
and when we called each other Lucy and ;
when we described all that we thought in ab-
sence and all we had felt when present
when we sat with our hands locked each in each
and at last, growing bolder, when in the still
and quiet loneliness of a summer twilight we ex-
changed our first kiss, we did not dream that the
world forbade what seemed to us so natural ; nor
feeling in our own hearts the impossibility of
THE NEW PH-flEDO. 205
change did we ever ask whether this sweet and
mystic state of existence was to last for ever !
"
Lucy was an only child ;
her father was a
man of wretched character. A profligate, a
gambler ruined alike in fortune, hope, and
reputation, he was yet her only guardian
and protector. The village in which we both
resided was near London ;
there Mr. D had
a small cottage, where he left his daughter and
his slender establishment for days, and some-
times for weeks together, while he was engaged in
equivocal speculations giving no address, and
engaged in no professional mode of life.
Lucy's
mother had died long since, of a broken heart
(that fate, too, was afterwards her daughter's)
so that this poor girl was literally without a
monitor or a friend, save her own innocence
and, alas ! innocence is but a poor substitute for
experience. The lady with whom I had met
her had known her mother, and she felt com-
passion for the child. She saw her constantly,
and sometimes took her to her own house,
whenever she was in the neighbourhood; but
206 THE NEW PH^EDO.
that was not often, and only for a few days at
a time. Her excepted, Lucy had no female
friend.
" Was it a wonder, then, that she allowed
herself to meet me? that we spent hours
and hours together? that she called me
her only friend her brother as well as her
lover ? There was a peculiarity in our attach-
ment worth noticing. Never, from the first
hour of our meeting to the last of our separa-
tion, did we ever say an unkind or cutting word
to each other. Living so much alone never
meeting in the world unacquainted with all the
tricks, and doubts, and artifices of life, we never
had cause for the jealousy and the reproach, the
sharp suspicion, or the premeditated coquetry,
which diversify the current of loves formed in
society the kindest language, the most tender
thoughts, alone occurred to us. If any thing
prevented her meeting me, she never concealed
her sorrow, nor did I ever affect to chide. We
knew from the bottom of our hearts that we
were all in all to each other and there was
THE NEW PH^DO. 207
never any disguise to the clear and full under-
standing of that delicious knowledge. Poor
poor Lucy ! what an age seems to have passed
since that time ! How dim and melancholy, yet,
oh ! how faithful, are the hues in which that
remembrance is clothed ! When I muse over
that time, I start, and ask myself if it was real,
or if I did not wholly dream it and, with the in-
tenseness of the dream, fancy it a truth. Many
other passages in my life have been romantic,
and many, too, coloured by the affections. But
this short part of my existence is divided utterly
from the rest it seems to have no connexion
with all else that I have felt and acted a
strange and visionary wandering out of the
living world having here no being and no
parallel.
" One evening we were to meet at a sequester-
ed and lonely part of the brook's course, a spot
which was our usual rendezvous. I waited con-
siderably beyond the time appointed, and was
just going sorrowfully away when she appeared.
As she approached, I saw that she was in tears
208 THE NEW PHLEDO.
and she could not for several moments speak
for weeping. At length I learned that her
father had just returned home, after a long ab-
sence that he had announced his intention of
immediately quitting their present home and
going to a distant part of the country, or per-
haps even abroad.
" And this chance so probable, so certain
this chance of separation had never occurred to
us before ! We had lived in the Happy Valley,
nor thought of the strange and desert lands that
stretched beyond the mountains around us ! I
was stricken, as it were, into torpor at the intel-
ligence. I did not speak, or attempt, for several
moments, to console her. At length we sat
down under an old tree, and Lucy it was who
spoke first. I cannot say whether Lucy was
beautiful or not, nor will I attempt to describe
her ; for it has seemed to me that there would
be the same apathy and triteness of heart neces-
sary, to dwell coldly upon that face and figure
which are now dust as it would ask in a bride-
groom widowed ere the first intoxication was
THE NEW PH^EDO. 209
over, to minute and item every inch and article
in his bridal chamber. But putting her out-
ward attractions wholly aside, there was some-
thing in Lucy's sweet and kind voice which
would have filled me with love, even for defor-
mity ;
and now, when quite forgetting herself,
she thought only of comfort and hope for me,
my love to her seemed to grow and expand, and
leave within me no thought, no feeling, that it did
not seize and colour. It is an odd thing in the
history of the human heart, that the times most
sad to experience are often the most grateful to
recall ;
and of all the passages in our brief and
chequered love, none have I clung to so fondly
or cherished so tenderly, as the remembrance of
that desolate and tearful hour. We walked
slowly home, speaking very little, and lingering
on the way and my arm was round her waist
all the time. Had we fixed any scheme formed
any plan for hope? none ! We were (and felt
ourselves nor struggled against the knowledge)
we were playthings in the hands of Fate. It
210 THE NEW PH^EDO.
is only in after-years that Wisdom (which is the
gift of Prophecy) prepares us for, or delivers us
from, Destiny ! There was a little stile at the
entrance of the garden round Lucy's home, and
sheltered as it was by trees and bushes, it was
there, whenever we met, we took our last adieu
and there that evening we stopped, and lin-
gered over our parting words and our parting
kiss and at length, when I tore myself away, I
looked back and saw her in the sad and grey
light of the evening still there, still watching,
still
weeping !
What, what hours of anguish
and gnawing of heart must one, who loved so
kindly and so entirely as she did, have after-
wards endured !
" As I lay awake that night, a project, natural
enough, darted across me. I would seek Lucy's
father, communicate our attachment, and sue for
his approbation. We might, indeed, be too
young for marriage but we could wait, and love
each other in the meanwhile. I lost no time
in following up this resolution. The next day,
THE NEW PHJEDO. 211
before noon, I was at the door of Lucy's cottage
I was in the little chamber that faced the gar-
den, alone with her father.
" A boy forms strange notions of a man who
is considered a scoundrel. I was prepared to
see one of fierce and sullen appearance, and to
meet with a rude and coarse reception. I found
in Mr. D a person who early accustomed
(for he was of high birth) to polished society,
still
preserved, in his manner and appearance,
its best characteristics. His voice was soft and
bland ;
his face, though haggard and worn, re-
tained the traces of early beauty ;
and a cour-
teous and attentive ease of deportment had been
probably improved by the habits of deceiving
others, rather than impaired. I told our story
to this man, frankly and fully. When I had
done, he rose ; he took me by the hand; he ex-
pressed some regret, yet some satisfaction, at
what he had heard. He was sensible how much
peculiar circumstances had obliged him to leave
his daughter unprotected ; he was sensible, also,
that from my birth and future fortunes, my affec-
212 THE NEW PH^EDO.
tion did honour to the object of ray choice. No-
thing would have made him so happy, so proud,
had I been older had I been my own master.
But I and he, alas ! must be aware that my
friends and guardians would never consent to
my forming any engagement at so premature an
age, and they and the world would impute the
blame to him ; for calumny (he added in a me-
lancholy tone) had been busy with his name,
and any story, however false or idle, would be
believed of one who was out of the world's affec-
tions.
" All this, and much more, did he say ;
and I
pitied him while he spoke. Our conference
then ended in nothing fixed; but he asked
me to dine with him the next day. In a word,
while he forbade me at present to recur to the
subject, he allowed me to see his daughter as
often as I pleased : this lasted for about ten
days. At the end of that time, when I made my
usual morning visit, I saw D alone : he ap-
peared much agitated. He was about, he said,
to be arrested. He was undone for ever and
THE NEW PH^DO. 213
his poor daughter ! he could say no more his
manly heart was overcome, and he hid his face
with his hands. I attempted to console him,
and inquired the sum necessary to relieve him.
It was considerable ;
and on hearing it named,
my power of consolation I deemed over at once.
I was mistaken. But why dwell on so hacknied
a topic, as that of a sharper on the one hand,
and a dupe on the other ? I saw a gentleman
of the tribe of Israel I raised a sum of money,
to be repaid when I came of age, and that sum
was placed in D 's hands. My intercourse
with Lucy continued ; but not long. This mat-
ter came to the ears of one who had succeeded
my poor aunt, now no more, as my guardian.
He saw D , and threatened him with penal-
ties, which the sharper did not dare to brave.
My guardian was a man of the world ;
he said
nothing to me on the subject, but he begged me
to accompany him on a short tour through a
neighbouring county. I took leave of Lucy only
for a few days as I imagined. I accompanied
my guardian was a week absent returned
214 THE NEW PH^EDO.
and hastened to the cottage : it was shut up
an old woman opened the door they were gone,
father and daughter, none knew whither !
" It was now that my guardian disclosed his
share in this event, so terribly unexpected by
me. He unfolded the arts of D ;
he held
up his character in its true h'ght. I listened to
him patiently, while he proceeded thus far ;
but
when, encouraged by* my silence, he attempted
to insinuate that Lucy was implicated in her
father's artifices that she had lent herself to
decoy, to the mutual advantage of sire and
daughter, the inexperienced heir of considerable
fortunes, my rage and indignation exploded at
once. High words ensued. I defied his autho-
rity I laughed at his menaces I openly de-
clared my resolution of tracing Lucy to the end
of the world, and marrying her the instant she
was found. Whether or not that my guardian had
penetrated sufficiently into my character to see
that force was not the means by which I was to
be guided, I cannot say ;
but he softened from
his tone at last apologized for his warmth con-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 215
descended to soothe and remonstrate and our
dispute ended in a compromise. I consented to
leave Mr. S , and to spend the next year,
preparatory to my going to the university, with
my guardian : he promised, on the other hand,
that if, at the end of that year, I still wished to
discover Lucy, he would throw no obstacles in
the way of my search. I was ill-contented with
this compact ;
but I was induced to it by my
firm persuasion that Lucy would write to me,
and that we should console each other, at least,
by a knowledge of our mutual situation and our
mutual constancy. In this persuasion, I in-
sisted on remaining six weeks longer with S ,
and gained my point ;
and that any letter Lucy
might write might not be exposed to officious
intervention from S , or my guardian's satel-
lites, I walked every day to meet the postman
who was accustomed to bring our letters. None
came from Lucy. Afterwards, I learned that
D , whom my guardian had wisely bought,
as well as intimidated, had intercepted three
letters which she had addressed to me in her
unsuspecting confidence and that she only
216 THE NEW PH^DO.
ceased to write when she ceased to believe in
me.
" I went to reside with my guardian. A man
of a hospitable and liberal turn, his house was
always full of guests, who were culled from the
most agreeable circles in London. We lived in
a perpetual round of amusement; and my uncle,
who thought I should be rich enough to afford
to be ignorant, was more anxious that I should
divert my mind than instruct it. Well, this
year passed slowly and sadly away, despite of
the gaiety around me; and, at the end of that
time, I left my uncle to go to the University;
but I first lingered in London to make inquiries
after D . I could learn no certain tidings
of him, but heard that the most probable place
to find him was a certain gaming-house in K
Street. Thither I repaired forthwith. It was
a haunt of no delicate and luxurious order of
vice; the chain attached to the threshold indi-
cated suspicion of the spies of justice; and a
grim and sullen face peered jealously upon me
before I was suffered to ascend the filthy and
THE NEW PH.EDO. 217
noisome staircase. But my search was destined
to a brief end. At the head of the Rouge et
Noir table, facing my eyes the moment I en-
tered the evil chamber, was the marked and
working countenance of D .
" He did not look up no, not once, all the
time he played: he won largely rose with a
flushed face and trembling hand descended the
stairs stopped in a room below, where a table
was spread with meats and wine took a large
tumbler of Madeira, and left the house. I had
waited patiently I had followed him with a
noiseless step I now drew my breath hard,
clenched my hands, as if to nerve myself for a
contest and as he paused for a moment under
one of the lamps, seemingly in doubt whither to
go I laid my hand on his shoulder, and uttered
his name. His eyes wandered with a leaden
and dull gaze over my face before he remem-
bered me. Then he recovered his usual bland
smile and soft tone. He grasped my unwilling
hand, and inquired with the tenderness of a
VOL. II. L
218 THE NEW PH^EDO.
parent after my health. I did not heed his
words. '
Yotir daughter?' said I, convulsively.
" '
Ah !
you were old friends,' quoth he,
smiling;
'
you have recovered that folly, I hope.
Poor thing! she will be happy to see an old
friend. .You know, of course
'
" What?' for he hesitated.
" '
That Lucy is married !'
" '
Married !' and as that word left my lips,
it seemed as if
my very life, my very soul, had
gushed forth also in the sound. When oh !
when, in the night-watch and the daily yearning,
when, whatever might have been my grief or
wretchedness, or despondency, when had I
dreamt, when imaged forth even the outline of
a doom like this ? Married !
my Lucy, my
fond, my constant, my pure-hearted, and tender
Lucy! Suddenly, all the chilled and revolted
energies of my passions seemed to re-act, and
rush back upon me. I seized that smiling and
hollow wretch with a fierce grasp.
'
You have
done this you have broken her heart you
THE NEW PH^EDO. 2191
have crushed mine ! I curse you in her name
and my own ! I curse you from the bottom, and
with all the venom, of my soul ! Wretch !
wretch !' and he wasas a reed in my hands.
" '
Madman,' said he, as at last he, extricated
himself from my gripe, 'my daughter married
with her free consent, and to one far better
fitted to make her happy than you. -
Go, go
I forgive you I also was once in love, and with
her mother!'
" I did not answer I let him depart.
" Behold me how, then, entered upon a new
stage of life a long, sweet, shadowy train of
dreams and fancies, and forethoughts of an
unreal future, was for ever past. I had attained
suddenly to the end of that period which is as a
tale from the East,
'
a tale of glory and of the
sun.' A startling and abrupt truth had come
upon me in the night, and unawares ! I was
awakened, and for ever the charm had fallen
from me; and I was as other men ! The little
objects of earth the real and daily present
the routine of trifles the bustle and the con-
L 2
220 THE NEW PHJEDO.
test the poor employment and the low am-
bition these were henceforth to me as to my
fellow-kind. I was brought at once into the
actual world; and the armour for defence was
girded round me as by magic; the weapon
adapted to the hardship and to the battle was in
my hand. And all this had happened love
disappointment despair wisdom while I was
yet a boy !
" It was a little while after this interview
but I mention it now, for there is no importance
in the quarter from which I heard it that I
learned some few particulars of Lucy's marriage.
There was, and still is, in the world's gossip, a
strange story of a rich, foolish man, awed as
well as gulled by a sharper, and of a girl torn to
a church with a violence so evident that the
priest refused the ceremony. But the rite was
afterwards solemnized by special licence. The
pith of that story has truth, and Lucy was at
once the heroine and victim of the romance.
Now, then, I turn to a somewhat different strain
in my narrative.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 221
"
You, A , who know so well the habits of
a University life,
need not be told how singu-
larly monotonous and contemplative it may be
made to a lonely man. The first year I was
there, I mixed, as you may remember, in none
of the many circles into which that curious and
motley society is split. I formed, or rather re-
turned to, my passion for study; yet the
study was desultory, and wanted that system
and vigour, on which you have, at a later time,
complimented my lettered ardour. Two or
three books, of a vague and unmellowed philo-
sophy, fell in my way, and I fed upon their
crude theories. We live alone, and we form a
system ;
we go into the world, and we see the
errors in the systems of others. To judge and
to invent are two opposite faculties, and are
cultivated by two opposite modes of life, or, as
Gibbon has expressed it,
'
Conversation en-
riches the understanding, but solitude is the
school of genius.'
"
My only recreation was in long and com-
panionless rides; and in the flat and dreary
222 THE NEW PH^DO.
country around our University, the cheerless
aspect of nature fed the idle melancholy at my
heart. In the second year of my college life, I
roused myself a little from my seclusion; and
rather by accident than design, you will re-
member that my acquaintance was formed
among the men considered most able and pro-
mising of our time. I appeared but to poor
advantage among these young academicians,
fresh as they were from public schools; their
high animal spirits for ever on the wing ; ready
in wit and in argument prone now to laugh at
trifles, and now earnestly to dispute on them
they stunned and confused my quiet and grave
habits of mind. I have met the most brilliant
of these men since, and they have been asto-
nished, and confessed themselves astonished,
even at the little and meagre reputation I have
acquired, and at whatsoever conversational
ability, though only by fits and starts, I may
now display. They compliment me on my
improvement :
they mistake my intellect is
just the same I have improved only in the
THE NEW PHLEDO. 223
facility of communicating its fruits. In the
summer of that year, I resolved to make a bold
effort to harden my mind and conquer its fasti-
dious reserve; and I set out to travel over the
north of England, and the greater part of Scot-
land, in the humble character of a pedestrian
tourist Nothing ever did my character more
solid good than that experiment. I was thrown
among a thousand varieties of character ;
I was
continually forced into bustle and action, and
into providing for myself that great and in-
delible lesson towards permanent independence
of character.
" One evening, in an obscure part of Cum-
berland, I was seeking a short cut to a neigh-
bouring village through a gentleman's grounds,
in which there was a public path. Just within
sight of the house, (which was an old, desolate
building, in the architecture of James the First,
with gable-ends and dingy walls, and deep-sunk,
gloomy windows,) I perceived two ladies at a
little distance before me ;
one seemed in weak
and delicate health, for she walked slowly and
224 THE NEW PH^EDO.
with pain, and stopped often as she leaned on
her companion. I lingered behind, in order
not to pass them abruptly; presently, they
turned away towards the house, and I saw them
no more. Yet that frail and bending form, as I
too soon afterwards learned that form, which
I did not recognise which, by a sort of fa-
tality, I saw only in a glimpse, and yet for the
last time on earth, that form was the wreck
of Lucy D !
" Unconscious of this event in my destiny, I
left that neighbourhood, and settled for some
weeks on the borders of the lake of Keswick.
There, one evening, a letter, re-directed to me
from London, reached me. The hand-writing
was that of Lucy; but the trembling and slurred
characters, so different from that graceful ease
which was wont to characterise all she did, filled
me, even at the first glance, with alarm. This
is the letter read it
you will know, then,
what I have lost.
" '
I write to you, my dear, my unforgotten
THE NEW PH^EDO. 225
,
the last letter this hand will ever trace.
Till now, it would have been a crime to write to
you; perhaps it is so still but dying as I am,
and divorced from all earthly thoughts and re-
membrances, save yours, I feel that I cannot
quite collect my mind for the last hour until I
have given you the blessing of one whom you
loved once ;
and when that blessing is given, I
think I can turn away from your image, and
sever willingly the last tie that binds me to
earth. I will not afflict you by saying what I
have suffered since we parted with what an-
guish I thought of what you would feel when
you found me gone and with what cruel, what
fearful violence, I was forced into becoming the
wretch I now am. I was hurried, I was driven,
into a dreadful and bitter duty but I thank
God that I have fulfilled it. What, what have
I done, to have been made so miserable through-
out life as I have been ! I ask my heart, and
tax my conscience and every night I think
over the sins of the day; they do not seem to
me heavy, yet my penance has been very great.
L5
226 THE NEW PH^EDO.
For the last two years, I do sincerely think that
there has not been one day which I have not
marked with tears. But enough of this, and of
myself. You, dear, dear L , let me turn to
you !
Something at my heart tells me that you
have not forgotten that once we were the world
to each other, and even through the changes and
the glories of a man's life, I think you will not
forget it. True, L ,
that I was a poor and
friendless, and not too-well educated girl, and
altogether unworthy of your destiny; but you
did not think so then and when you have lost
me, it is a sad, but it is a real comfort, to feel
that that thought will never occur to you.
Your memory will invest me with a thousand
attractions and graces I did not possess, and all
that you recall of me will be linked with the
freshest and happiest thoughts of that period of
life in which you first beheld me. And this
thought, dearest L , sweetens death to me
and sometimes it comforts me for what has been.
Had our lot been otherwise had we been
united, and had you survived your love for me,
THE NEW PH^EDO. 227
(and what more probable !) my lot would have
been darker even than it has been. I know not
how it is
perhaps from my approaching death
but I seem to have grown old, and to have ob-
tained the right to be your monitor and warner.
Forgive me, then, if I implore you to think
earnestly and deeply of the great ends of life ;
think of them as one might think who is anxious
to gain a distant home, and who will not be
diverted from his way. Oh! could you know
how solemn and thrilling a joy comes over me
as I nurse the belief, the certainty, that we shall
meet at length, and for ever ! Will not that
hope also animate you, and guide you unerring
through the danger and the evil of this en-
tangled life ?
" '
May God bless you, and watch over you
may He comfort and cheer, and elevate your
heart to Him ! Before you receive this, / shall
be no more and my love, my care for you will,
I trust and feel, have become eternal. Fare-
well:
<L. M.'
228 THE NEW PH^DO.
" The letter," continued L , struggling
with his emotions,
" was dated from that village
through which I had so lately passed ; thither I
repaired that very night Lucy had been buried
the day before ! I stood upon a green mound,
and a few, few feet below, separated from me by
a scanty portion of earth, mouldered that heart
which had loved me so faithfully and so well !
"
" O God ! what a difference throughout the
whole of this various and teeming earth a single
DEATH can effect !
Sky, sun, air, the eloquent
waters, the inspiring mountain-tops, the mur-
muring and glossy wood, the very
'
Glory in the grass, and splendour in the flower/
do these hold over us an eternal spell ? Are
they as a part and property of an unvarying
course of nature ? Have they aught which is
unfailing, steady same in its effect ? Alas !
their attraction is the creature of an accident.
One gap, invisible to all but ourself, in the
crowd and turmoil of the world, and every thing
is changed. In a single hour, the whole pro-
THE NEW PILKDO. 229
cess of thought, the whole ebb and flow of emo-
tion, may be revulsed for the rest of an existence.
Nothing can ever seem to us as it did : it is a
blow upon the fine mechanism by which we think,
and move, and have our being the pendulum
vibrates aright no more the dial hath no ac-
count with time the process goes on, but it
knows no symmetry or order ;
it was a single
stroke that marred it, but the harmony is gone
for ever !
" And yet I often think that that shock which
jars on the mental, renders yet softer the moral
nature. A death that is connected with love
unites us by a thousand remembrances to all
who have mourned : it builds a bridge between
the young and the old ; it gives them in common
the most touching of human sympathies ;
it steals
from nature its glory and its exhilaration, but
not its tenderness. And what, perhaps, is bet-
ter than all, to mourn deeply for the death of
another, loosens from ourself the petty desire for,
and the animal adherence to, life. We have
gained the end of the philosopher, and view,
without shrinking, the coffin and the pall.
230 THE NEW PH5:DO.
" For a year my mind did not return to its
former pursuits :
my scholastic ambition was
checked at once. Hitherto I had said,
'
If I
gain distinction, she will know it:' now, that ob-
ject was no more. I could not even bear the
sight of books :
my thoughts had all curdled into
torpor a melancholy listlessness filled and op-
pressed me the truditur dies die the day
chasing day without end or profit the cloud
sweeping after cloud over the barren plain the
breath after breath passing across the unmoved
mirror these were the sole types and images ol
my life, I had been expected by my friends to
attain some of the highest of academical rewards;
you may imagine that I deceived their expecta-
tions. I left the University and hastened to
London. I was just of age. I found myself
courted, and I plunged eagerly into society, The
experiment was perilous; but in my case it
answered. I left myself no tune for thought :
gambling, intrigue, dissipation, these are the oc-
cupations of polished society ; they are great re-
sources to a wealthy mourner. The '
man>
THE NEW PH^DO. 231
stirred again within me ;
the weakness of my re-
pinings gradually melted away beneath the daily
trifles of life; perpetual footsteps, though the
footsteps of idlers, wore the inscription from the
stone. I said to my heart,
'
Why mourn when
mourning is but vanity, and to regret is
only to
be weak ? let me turn to what life has left, let
me struggle to enjoy.'
" Whoever long plays a part, ends by making
it natural to him. At first I was ill at ease in
feigning attention to frivolities ; by degrees
frivolities grew into importance. Society, like
the stage, gives rewards intoxicating in propor-
tion as they are immediate : the man who has
but to appear behind the lamps of the orchestra
to be applauded, must find all other species of
fame distant and insipid ;
so with society. The
wit and the gallant can seldom covet praise,
which, if more lasting, is less present than that
which they command by a word and a glance.
And having once tasted the &clat of social power,
they cannot resist the struggle to preserve it.
This, then, grew my case, and it did me good,
232 THE NEW PH^EDO.
though it has done others evil. I lived then my
summer day, laughed, and loved, and trifled
with the herd. The objects I pursued were
petty, it is true but to have any object was to
reconcile myself to life. And now the London
season was over : summer was upon us in all its
later prodigality. I was no longer mournful,
but I was wearied. Ambition, as I lived with
the world, again dawned upon me. I said, when
I saw the distinction mediocrity had acquired,
''Why content myself with satirizing the claim ?
why not struggle against the claimant ?' In a
word, I again thirsted for knowledge and coveted
its power. Now comes the main history of the
Student ; but I have fatigued you enough for
the present.
2.33
CONVERSATION THE FIFTH.
THE HISTORY OF L CONTINUED IN HIS INTELLECTUAL PUR-
SUITS HELVETIUS HIS FAULTS AND MERITS THE MATERIALISTS
THE PHILOSOPHY OF FAITH.
" IT was observed by Descartes," said L-
(as we renewed, a day or two after our last con-
versation, the theme we had then begun,)
" 'that
in order to improve the mind, we ought less to
learn than to contemplate.' In this sentence
lies the use of retirement. There are certain
moments when study is
peculiarly grateful to us :
but in no season are we so likely to profit by it,
as when we have taken a breathing-time from
the noise and hubbub of the world when the
'234 THE NEW PtL3EDO.
world has wearied us. Behold me, then, within
a long day's journey from London, in a beautiful
country, an old house, and a library collected
with great labour by one of my forefathers, and
augmented in more modern works at the easy
cost of expense, by myself.
" The first branch of letters to which I di-
rected my application was Moral Philosophy;
and the first book I seized upon was Helvetius.
I know no work so fascinating to a young thinker
as the '
Discours de 1'Esprit :' the variety, the
anecdote, the illustration, the graceful criticism,
the solemn adjuration, the brilliant point that
characterise the work, and render it so attrac-
tive, not as a treatise only, but a composition,
would alone make that writer delightful to many
who mistake the end of his system, and are in-
capable of judging its wisdom in parts.
" His great metaphysical error is in supposing
all men born with the same capacity; in resolv-
ing all effects of character and genius to educa-
tion. For, in the first place, the weight of proof
being thrown upon him, he does not prove the
THE NEW PH^EDO. 235
fact ; and, secondly, if he did prove it, neither
we nor his system would be a whit the better for
it : for the utmost human and possible care in
education cannot make all men alike;* and
whether a care above humanity could do so, is,
I apprehend, of very little consequence in the
eyes of practical and sensible beings. Yet even
this dogma has been beneficial, if not true : for
the dispute it occasioned, obliged men to exa-
mine, and to allow the wonders that education
can effect, and the general features in common
which a common mode of education can bestow
upon a people ; grand truths, to which the hu-
* For chance being included in Helvetius's idea of
education, and, indeed, according to him (Essay iii.
Chap, i.)
"
making the greatest share of it," it is evi-
dent that we must agree in what he himself almost
immediately afterwards says, viz. " That no persons
being placed exactly in the same circumstances, no
persons can receive exactly the same education" id est,
no persons can be exactly the same the question then
is reduced to a mere scholastic dispute. As long as
both parties agree that no persons can be made exactly
the same, it matters very little from what quarter
comes the impossibility.
236 THE NEW PH./EDO.
man race will owe all that is feasible in its pro-
gress towards amelioration !
But, passing from
this point, and steering from the metaphysical
to the more plainly moral portion of his school,
let us see whether he has given to that most
mystical word VIRTUE its true solution. We all
know the poetical and indistinct meanings with
which the lofty soul of Plato, and the imitative
jargon of his followers, clothed the word a
symmetry, a harmony, a beautiful abstraction,
invariable, incomprehensible that is the Plato-
nic virtue. Then comes the hard and shrewd
refining away of the worldly school. '
What is
virtue here,' say they,
'
is vice at our antipodes;
the laws of morals are arbitrary and uncertain
'
Imposteur a la Mecque, et prophete a Medine ;'
*
there is no permanent and immutable rule of
good ;
virtue is but a dream.' Helvetius is the
first who has not invented, but rendered popular,
this great, this useful, this all-satisfying inter-
pretation,
'
Virtue is the habitude of directing
*
Voltaire, Mahomet, Let. i.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 237
our actions to the public good ; the love of vir-
tue is but the desire of the general happiness ;
virtuous actions are those which contribute to
that happiness.' In this clear and beautiful ex-
planation all contradictions are solved : actions
may be approved in one country, condemned in
another, yet this interpretation will remain un-
changed in its truth. What may be for the pub-
lic good in China, may not be so in the Hebrides ;
yet, so long as we consult the public good where-
soever we are thrown, our intentions are virtuous.
We have thus, in every clime, one star always
before us ; and, without recurring to the dreams
of Plato, we are not driven, by apparent incon-
sistencies, to find virtue itself a dream. '
The
face of Truth is not less fair and beautiful for all
the counterfeit visors which have been put upon
her.'" *
A. And it is from this explanation of the end
of virtue that Bentham has deduced his defini-
tion of the end of government. Both tend to
the public good ; or, in yet broader terms, the
* Shaftesburv.
238 THE NEW PHJEDO.
greatest happiness of the greatest number. It
is a matter worthy of much pondering, to think
that the end of virtue and the end of good go-
vernment can only have the same explanation.
L. Yes ;
and hence a surpassing merit in
Helvetius ! more than any reasoner before him,
he united public virtues with private. Though
so excellent, so exemplary himself, in the minor
charities and graces of life, he forbore, like ego-
tistical preachers, to dwell upon them :
they are
less important to mankind than the great prin-
ciples of public conduct principles which rule
states and enlighten them. It was a noble truth
at that time, the father of how much that is in-
estimable now, to proclaim,
"
that, in order to
perfectionize our moral state, legislators had two
methods : the first, to unite private interests to
the general interest ;
the other, to advance the
progress and diffusion of intellect." This is a
maxim the people should wear in their hearts.
A. True ; before Helvetius, moralists were in
league with the ills that are :
they preached to
man to amend himself, not to amend his laws,
THE NEW PH^EDO. 239
without which all amelioration is
partial. To
what use would it be to tell the modern Greeks
not to lie ? Give them a code, in which, to lie
would be to sin against self-interest.
L. The form of government gives its tone to
popular opinion. It is in proportion as popular
opinion honours or neglects a virtue, that that
virtue is
popularly followed. In commercial
countries wealth is respectability; in despotic
countries flattery is considered wisdom : the
passions lead men to action, and the passions are
excited according to the reward proposed to
them. These are grave and weighty truths : we
are to thank Helvetius if
they are now known.
A. But I have diverted you from the thread of
your narrative. To what new studies did your
regard for Helvetius direct you ?
L. It did not immediately lead to new studies,
but gave a more solid direction to those I had
formerly indulged. I had, as I mentioned,, been
before addicted to abstract speculation ; but it
was of a dreamy and wild cast. I now sought to
establish philosophy on the basis of common
240 THE NEW PH^EDO.
sense. I recommenced, then, a stern and reso-
lute course of metaphysical study, giving, indeed,
a slighter attention to the subtleties which usu-
ally occupy the student, than to the broader
principles on which the spirit of human conduct
and our daily actions do secretly depend. Moral
philosophy is the grandest of all sciences : meta-
physics, abstracted from moral philosophy, is at
once the most pedantic and the most frivolous.
And that man is indeed delirious "
qui verborum
minutiis rerum frangit pondera."
But I soon grew chilled and dissatisfied with
the materialists. Helvetius charmed my fancy
sharpened my intellect but filled not my soul.
Locke, Condillac, alike left me disappointed
and asking solutions to questions which they
either dared not answer or discouragingly evad-
ed. Then came the Scotch, and, (so far as they
were open to me,) the German reasoners, with
their far more ennobling systems the wild and
starry darkness of the last the generous ardour
the prodigal and earnest faith that distinguishes
the first. But I could not shut my eyes to
THE NEW PHJEDO. 241
the hair-splitting and refining the quackery
and fanaticism of the one the haste, the
rashness, the illogical intemperance, of the
other. Even Plato, with all his dreams, seem-
ed to me more conclusive, than these, his
latest, imitators. Left then by my guides upon
this vast and illimitable plain awe-struck and
saddened by my own doubts, I resolved, at least,
not to despair, for suddenly I felt that I was not
alone !
My books were deaf and sealed, but
round me was the Universe, and the h'fe of
things became my teacher ! Yes not from me-
taphysics, but from analogy I rebuilt up my
crumbling faith, and became a Philosopher to
myself. Happy he whose doubts resolve them-
selves as mine did, into that devout, confiding,
immaterial hope, which seems to suit best our
limited lore below to support most our virtue,
and exalt our souls. Some men there are of
stern minds, of long-practised self-denial, of
habits whose austerity has become a pleasure
who may be both good and happy without a be-
lief in an Hereafter. Lowlier than these, I own
VOL. II. M
242 THE NEW PH^DO.
myself one amongst the herd. And never did I
feel assured ot the strength of my own heart,
and trustful to subdue its human errors and its
hourly sorrows, until I saw bright before me the
birthright and Eden of Immortality. There is
a Philosophy, attempted, it is true, but yet un-
attained a Philosophy which this century ought
to produce out of the ashes of the Materialism of
the last it is the Philosophy of Faith !"
CONVERSATION THE SIXTH.
THE HISTORY CONCLUDED PROGRESS FROM MORALS TO HISTORY
A STATE OF DOUBT MOST FAVOURABLE TO THE STUDY OF THE PAST
PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORIANS DANGEROUS HUME AND GIBBON
THE ADVANTAGES OF TACITUS AND POLYBIUS IN ACTUAL EXPERI-
ENCE -BOLINGBROKE THE FIRST ENGLISH UTILITARIAN HISTORY
THE ACCUSER OF MANKIND THE GREEKS PORTRAIT OF THEMIS-
TOCLES PATRIOTISM AND PHILANTHROPY THE ERRORS OF OLD
--THE DIVINE HOPE OF THE FUTURE.
" SLOWLY and reluctantly," continued L ,
(resuming the next day the thread of his intel-
lectual history,) "did I turn from the consider-
ation of motives to that of actions from Morals
to History. Volney has said, in his excellent
lectures, that the proper state of mind for the
examination of history, is that in which we
'
hold the judgment in suspense.' This truth is
evident ; yet they who allow the doctrine when
M 2
244 THE NEW PH^DO.
couched in the above phrase, might demur if the
phrase were a little altered, and instead of a
suspension of judgment, we spoke of a state of
doubt. It is true ! in this state, a state of *
in-
vestigating doubt,' history should be studied.
In doubt, all the faculties of the mind are
aroused we sift, we weigh, we examine every
page is a trial to the energies of the understand-
ing. But confidence is sleepy and inert. If we
make up our minds beforehand to believe all we
are about to read, the lecture glides down the
memory without awakening one thought by the
way. We may be stored with dates and legends ;
we may be able to conclude our periods by a
fable about Rome ;
but we do not feel that we
have reasoned as well as read. Our minds may
be fuller, but our intellects are not sharper than
they were before ; we have studied, but not in-
vestigated : to what use investigation to those
who are already persuaded ? There is the same
difference in the advantage of history to him who
weighs, because he mistrusts, and to him who
discriminates nothing, because he believes all,
THE NEW PHJEDO. 245
as there is between the value of a common-place
book and a philosophical treatise. The first
may be more full of facts than the latter, but
the latter is facts turned to use. It is this state
of rational doubt which a metaphysical course of
study naturally induces. It is, therefore, after
the investigation of morals, that we should turn
to history. Nor is this all the advantage which
we derive from the previous study of morals.
History were, indeed, an old almanack to him
who knows neither what is right nor what is
wrong; where governments have been wise,
where erroneous. History, regarded in the light
of political utility, is, to quote Volney again,
*
a
vast collection of moral and social experiments,
which mankind make involuntarily and very ex-
pensively on themselves.' But we must know
the principles of the science before we can apply
the experiments."
A. And yet, while the real uses of history are
philosophical, a mere narrator of facts is often
far better than a philosophical historian.
L. Because it is better to reflect ourselves
246 THE NEW PH^EDO.
than to suffer others to reflect for us. A philo-
sopher has a system ;
he views things according
to his theory; he is unavoidably partial; and,
like Lucian's painter, he paints his one-eyed
princes in profile.
A. It is
especially in our language that the
philosophical historians have been most dan-
gerous. No man can give us history through a
falser medium than Hume and Gibbon have
done.
L. And this not only from the occasional in-
accuracy of their facts, but their general way of
viewing facts. Hume tells the history of factions,
and Gibbon the history of oligarchies the Peo-
ple, the People, are altogether omitted by both.
The fact is, neither of them had seen enough of
the mass of men to feel that history should be
something more than a chronicle of dynasties,
however wisely chronicled it be :
they are fastidi-
ous and graceful scholars ; their natural leanings
are towards the privileged elegances of life : eter-
nally sketching human nature, they give us,
perhaps, a skeleton tolerably accurate it is the
THE NEW PHJEDO. 247
flesh and blood they are unable to accomplish :
their sympathies are for the courtly their minds
were not robust enough to feel sympathies with
the undiademed and unlaurelled tribes : each
most pretends to what he most wants Hume,
with his smooth affectation of candour, is never
candid and Gibbon, perpetually philosophizing,
is
rarely philosophical.
A. Tacitus and Polybius are not easily
equalled.
L. And why? Because both Tacitus and
Polybius had seen the world in more turbulent
periods than our historians have done ;
the
knowledge of their kind was not lightly printed,
but deeply and fearfully furrowed, as it were,
upon their hearts ;
their shrewd, yet dark wis-
dom, was the fruit of a terrible experience.
Gibbon boasts of the benefit he derived to his
History from his military studies in the militia ;
it was from no such holiday service that Polybius
learned his method of painting wars. As the
Megalopolitan passed through his stormy and
bold career; as he took rough lessons from the
248 THE NEW
camp, and imbued himself with the cold sagacity
which the diplomatic intrigues he shared both
required and taught, he was slowly acquiring
that mass of observation, that wonderful intui-
tion into the true spirit of facts, that power of
seeing at a glance the Improbable, and through
its clouds and darkness seizing at once upon the
True, which characterise the fragments of his
great history, and elevate, what in other hands
would have been but a collection of military
bulletins, into so inestimable a manual for the
statesman and the civilian. And, when we
glance over the life of the far greater Roman,
we see no less palpably how much the wisdom
of the closet was won by the stern nature of those
fields of action in which he who had witnessed
the reign of a Domitian was cast. When we
grow chained to his page by the gloomy intense-
ness of his colourings when crime after crime,
in all the living blackness of those fearful days,
arises before us when in his grasping apho-
risms the fierce secrets of kings lie bared be-
fore us when in every sentence we shudder at
THE NEW PH^EDO. 249
a record in every character we mark a portent,
yet a mirror, of the times, we feel at once how
necessary to that force and fidelity must have
been the severity and darkness of his experience.
Through action, toil, public danger, and public
honours, he sought his road to philosophy, a
road beset with rapine and slaughter ; every
slave that fell graved in his heart a warning,
every horror he experienced animated and armed
his genius. Saturate with the spirit of his age,
his page has made that age incarnate to posterity
actual, vivified, consummate, and entire. If,
indeed, it be dread and ghastly, it is the dread
and ghastliness of an unnatural life. Time has
not touched it with a charnel touch. The Ma-
gician has preserved the race in their size and
posture ; motionless, breathless, in all else,
unchanged as in life.
A. It is a great loss to our language that
Bolingbroke never fulfilled what seems to have
been the intention of his life and the expecta-
tion of his friends viz. the purpose so often
alluded to in his Letters, of writing a History.
M 5
250 THE NEW PHJEDO.
L. Yes ;
from all he has left us, he seems to
have been pre-eminently qualified for the task :
his thoughts so just, yet so noble ;
his penetra-
tion into men so keen ; his discernment of true
virtue so exact !
A. He gave, certainly, its loftiest shape to
the doctrine of Utility, and is the real father of
that doctrine in England.*
L. Returning from these criticisms on histo-
rians to the effect which History produces, I
cannot but think that its general effect tends
to harden the heart against mankind. Its
experience, so long, so consistent, so unvarying,
seems a silent and irresistible accuser of the
human species. Men have taken the greatest
care to preserve their most unanswerable vilifier.
All forms of government, however hostile to each
other, seem alike in one effect the general base-
ness of the governed. What differs the boasted
Greece from the contemned Persia ? the former
*
The Utilitarians have quite overlooked their obli-
gations to Lord Bolingbroke. They would not ac-
knowledge a leader in a Tory.
THE NEW PH^DO. 251
produces some hundred names which the latter
cannot equal. True ! But what are a few
atoms culled from the sea-sands ? what a few
great men to the happiness of the herd ? Are
not the Greek writers, the Greek sages, more
than all others, full of contempt for the mass
around them ? the fraud, the ingratitude, the
violence, the meanness, the misery of their fel-
low-beings do not these make the favourite
subject of ancient satire and ancient declama-
tion ? And even among their great men, how
few on whose merits History can at once decide !
how few unsullied, even by the condemnation
of their own time. Plutarch says that the good
citizens of Athens were the best men the world
ever produced ;
but that her bad citizens were
unparalleled for their atrocities, their impiety,
their perfidy. Let us look over even the good
citizens Plutarch would select, and, judging them
by the rules of their age, how much have the
charitable still left to forgive ! Were I to select a
personification of the Genius of Athens, I would
choose Themistocles ;
a great warrior and a
252 THE NEW PH^DO.
wise man, resolute in adversity, accomplished in
expedients, consummate in address. Reverse the
portrait : he begins his career by the most un-
bridled excesses ;
he turns from them, it is said
to what? to the grossest flattery of the mul-
titude : the people whom he adulates at first, he
continues to rule by deceiving ;
he has recourse
to the tricks and arts of superstition to serve the
designs and frauds of ambition.* As an evidence
how little the wisdom of the chiefs had descended
to the deliberations of the people, viz. how little
the majority profited by their form of govern-
ment we find it recorded that when an Athenian
orator argued a certain point too closely with
Themistocles the people stoned him, and the
women stoned his wife. So much for free discus-
* When he was chosen admiral by the Athenians,
he put off all affairs public and private, to the day
that he was about to embark, in order that he might
appear, in having a vast deal of business to transact,
with a greater dignity and importance. It is quite
clear that all the business thus deferred, must have
been very badly done, and thus a trick to preserve
power was nobler and better in his eyes than a care
for the public advantage.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 253
sion among the ancients. He governs professedly
as a quack. He thinks first of destroying
his allies, and, baffled in that, contents him-
self with plundering them. Not naturally covet-
ous, he yet betrays his host (Timocreon, the
Rhodian) for money. Vain, as well as rapaci-
ous, he lavishes in ostentation what he gains by
meanness. Finally
"
linking one virtue with
a thousand crimes
"
he completes his own
character and consummates the illustration he
affords of the spirit of his country, by preserving
to the last (in spite of his hollow promises of aid
to the Barbarian, in spite of his resentment) his
love to his native city a passion that did
not prevent error, nor baseness, nor crime, ex-
erted in her cause but prevented all
hostility
against her. The most selfish, the most crafty,
the most heartless of men, destroyed himself,
rather than injure Greece.*
*
These observations are too severe. L does
not deal deeply enough with the Greek character, and
he confides too much in the rhetorical exaggerations of
Plutarch. But, withal, Themistocles was not an
honest man.
254 THE NEW PHJEDO.
A. Leaving his life a proof that patriotism
is a contracted and unphilosophical feeling; it
embraces but a segment of morals. Philan-
thropy is the only consistent species of public
love. A patriot may be honest in one thing,
yet a knave in all else a philanthropist sees
and seizes the whole of virtue.
L. And it is by philanthropy, perhaps, (a
modern affection,) that we may yet add a more
pleasing supplement to the histories of the past.
This can alone correct the feeling of despair for
human amendment, which history otherwise pro-
duces : we can, alas !
only counteract the influ-:
ence of past facts by recurring to the dreams of
enthusiasts for the future ; by clinging to some
one or other of those dreams, and by a hope,
that, if just, is at least unfounded on any exam-
ple in former ages, that by the increase of know-
ledge, men will approach to that political per-
fection, which does not depend alone on the tri-
umphs of art, or the advance of sciences which
does not depend alone on palaces, and streets,
and temples, and a few sounding and solemn
THE NEW PHJEDO. 255
names, but which shall be felt by the common
herd, viz. by the majority of the people : felt by
them in improved comfort; in enlightened
minds; in consistent virtues; in effects, we
must add, which no causes have hitherto pro-
duced. For why study the mysteries of Legis-
lation and Government? Why ransack the past,
and extend our foresight to distant ages ? if our
skill can only improve, as hitherto it has only
improved, the condition of oligarchies ;
if it can
only give the purple and the palace to the few
if it must leave in every state the degraded
many to toil, to sweat, to consume the day in a
harsh and sterile conflict with circumstance for
a bare subsistence; their faculties dormant;
their energies stifled in the cradle ; strangers to
all that ennobles, refines, exalts, if at every
effort to rise, they are encountered by a law,
and every enterprise darkens with them into a
crime ; if, when we cast our eyes along the
vast plains of life, we see but one universal Arena
of Labour, bounded on all sides by the gibbet,
the hulks, the wheel, the prison ;
all ignorance,
256 THE NEW PH^EDO.
prejudice, bloodshed, sin; if this state is to en-
dure for ever on earth, why struggle for a free-
dom which few only can enjoy for an enlighten-
ment, which can but call forth a few luminous
sparks from an atmosphere of gloom : for a poli-
tical prosperity which props a throne, and gives
steeds to a triumphal car, and animates the
winged words of eloquence, or the golden tomes
of verse, or the lofty speculation of science and
yet leaves these glories and effects but as frac-
tions that weigh not one moment against the in-
calculable sum of human miseries ? Alas ! if
this be the eternal doom of mortality, let us close
our books, let us shut the avenues to our minds
and hearts, let us despise benevolence as a
vanity, and speculation as a dream. Let us play
the Teian with life, think only of the Rose and
Vine, and since our most earnest endeavours
can effect so little to others, let us not extend
our hopes and our enjoyments beyond the small
and safe circle of Self ! No : man must either
believe in the perfectibility of his species, or
virtue and the love of others, are but a heated
and objectless enthusiasm.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 257
A. And this belief, whether false or true, gains
ground daily.
L. I must own that, until it broke upon me, I
saw nothing in learning but despondency and
gloom. As clouds across the Heaven, darken-
ing the light, and fading one after the other into
air, seemed the fleeting shadows which Philo-
sophy had called forth between the Earth and
Sun. If, day after day, in my solitary retreat,
I pondered over the old aspirations of sages,
with the various jargon with which, in the pur-
suit of truth, they have disguised erros, I felt
that it was not to teach myself to be wise, but to
learn to despair of wisdom. What a waste of
our power what a mockery of our schemes
seemed the fabrics they had erected the Pytha-
gorean Unity ;
and the Heraclitan Fire, to which
that Philosopher of Woe reduced the origin of
all things ;
and the " Hornoomeria
"
and pri-
mitive "
Intelligence
"
of Anaxagoras ;
and the
Affinity and Discord of Empedocles, and the
Atoms of Epicurus, and the bipart and pre-ex-
istent Soul which was evoked by Plato: was
258 THE NEW PH^EDO.
there not something mournful in the wander-
ings and chimeras of these lofty natures ? fed
as they were in caves and starry solitudes,
and winged by that intense and august contem-
plation, which they of the antique world were
alone able to endure. And when, by a sounder
study, or a more fortunate train of conjecture,
the erratic enterprise of their knowledge ap-
proached the truth when Democritus, for a
moment, and at intervals, eyes by a glimmering
light the true courses of the Heavenly Host or
when Aristippus, amid the roseate and sparkling
errors of his creed, yet catches a glimpse of the
true doctrine of morals and the causes of human
happiness, or when the lofty Zeno and the
sounder Epicurus, differing in the path, meet at
length at the true goal and then again start
forth into delusion ;
their very approach to truth
so momentary and partial, only mocks the more
the nature of human wanderings,
"
caput ac
fontem ignorant, divinant, ac delirant omnes." *
Couple then the records of Philosophy with
* Erasmi Colloquia ; Hedonius et Spudseus.
THE NEW PHLEDO. 259
those of History ; couple the fallacies of the wise
with the sorrows and the sufferings of the herd,
and how dark and mournful is our knowledge of
the past, and therefore our prospects of the
future ! And how selfish does this sentiment
render our ambition for the present ! How
vain seem the mighty struggle and small fruit
of those around us ! Look at this moment at
the agitation and ferment of the world with
what pretence can they who believe that the
Past is the mirror of the Future, lash themselves
into interest for any cause or principle, save that
immediately profitable to self! To them, if
deeply and honestly acquainted with history and
the progress of knowledge to them how vain
must seem the struggles and aspirations of the
crowd r Why do the people imagine a vain
thing ?
Why the hope and the strife of the re-
joicing Gaul; or the slow murmur, that foretells
irruption through the bright lands of Italy?
Why should there be blood spilt in the Vistula ?
or why should the armed Belgian dispute for go-
vernments and Kings ?
Why agitate ourselves
260 THE NEW PH^DO.
for a name an ideal good ? These orations, and
parchments, and meetings, and threats, and
prayers this clamour for "
reform," how mi-
serable a delusion must it seem to him who be-
lieves that the mass of men must for ever be
" the hewers of wood and drawers of water !"
To them no change raises the level of existence ;
famine still urges on to labour want still for-
bids knowledge. What matters whether this
law be passed, or that fleet be launched, or that
palace built, their condition is the same; the
happiest concurrence of accident and wisdom
brings them but a greater certainty of labour.
A free state does not redeem them from toil, nor
a despotism increase it. So long as the sun
rises and sets, so long must their bread be won
with travail, and their life
" be rounded
"
with
the temptation to crime. It seems, therefore,
to me, impossible for a wise and well-learned
man to feel sincerely, and without self-interest,
for the public good, unless he believe that laws
and increased knowledge will at length, however
gradually, devise some method of raising the
THE NEW PH^DO. 261
great multitude to a nearer equality of comfort
and intelligence with the few ; that human na-
ture is capable of a degree of amelioration that
it seems never hitherto to have reached; and
that the amelioration will be felt from the sur-
face to the depth of the great social waters, over
which the spirit shall move. The Republics of
old never effected this object. To expect it,
society must be altered as well as legislation. It
is for this reason that I feel glad with an inge-
nious and admirable writer,* that even theory is
at work : I am glad that inquiry wanders, even
to the fallacies of Owen, or the chimeras of St.
Simon. Out of that inquiry good may yet
come; and some future Bacon overturn the
axioms of an old school, polluted, not redeemed,
by every new disciple. To the man who finds
it
possible to entertain this hope, how different
an aspect the world wears !
Casting his glance
forward, how wondrous a light rests upon the
future ! the farther he extends his vision, the
The Author of Essays on the Publication of Opi-
nion, &c.
262 THE NEW PH^DO.
brighter the light. Animated by a hope more
sublime than wishes bounded to earth ever be-
fore inspired, he feels armed with the courage
to oppose surrounding prejudice, and the war-
fare of hostile customs. No sectarian advan-
tage, no petty benefit is before him ;
he sees but
the Regeneration of Mankind. It is with this
object that he links his ambition, that he unites
his efforts and his name ! From the disease,
and the famine, and the toil around, his spirit
bursts into prophecy, and dwells among future
ages ; even if in error, he luxuriates through life
in the largest benevolence, and dies if a
visionary the visionary of the grandest dream !
263
CONVERSATION THE SEVENTH.
DESCRIPTION OF AN ENGLISH LANDSCAPE THE ANIMAL ENJOYMEN
OF LIFE SOLITARY PERSONS THE LEAST REPINING COWLEY ON
THE TOWN AND COUNTRY L 's MENTAL PROGRESS FROM
HISTORY TO WORKS OF IMAGINATION HE IS INSPIRED TO EMU-
LATION, NOT BY THE, FAME OF GENIUS, BUT BY THE LUXURY OF
COMPOSITION GENIUS IS PECULIARLY SUSCEPTIBLE OFENJOYMENT
IT EVEN ENJOYS SADNESS L 'g STUDIES INTERRUPTED.
IT is a singularly pretty spot in which L
resides. Perhaps some of the most picturesque
scenery in England is in the neighbourhood of
London ;
and as I rode the other day, in the later
April, along the quiet lane, which branches from
the main road to L 's house Spring never
seemed to me to smile upon a lovelier prospect.
264 THE NEW PH^EDO.
The year had broken into its youth as with a
sudden and hilarious bound. A little while be-
fore, I had passed along the same road all was
sullen and wintry the March wind had swept
along dry hedges and leafless trees the only
birds I had encountered were two melancholy
sparrows in the middle of the road too dejected
even to chirp ;
but now a glory had passed over
the earth the trees were dight in that delicate
and lively verdure, which we cannot look upon
without feeling a certain freshness creep over
the heart. Here and there thick blossoms burst
in clusters from the fragrant hedge, and (as a
schoolboy prankt out in the hoops and ruffles
of his grandsire) the whitethorn seemed to
mock at the past winter by assuming its garb.
Above, about, around all was in motion, in pro-
gress, in joy the birds, which have often seemed
to me like the messengers from earth to heaven
charged with the homage and gratitude of
Natufe, and gifted with the most eloquent of
created voices to fulfil the mission ;
the birds
were upon every spray, their music upon every
THE NEW PH;EDO. 265
breath of air, Just where the hedge opened to
the left, I saw the monarch of English rivers
glide on his serene and silver course and in
the valley on the other side of his waters,
village, spire, cottage, and (at rarer yet thick
intervals) the abodes of opulence looked out
among the luxuriant blossoms, and the vivid
green by which they were encircled. It was a
thoroughly English scene. For I have always
thought that the peculiar characteristic of Eng-
lish scenery is a certain air of content There
is a happier smile on the face of an English land-
scape than I have ever beheld even in the land-
scapes of the South ;
a happier though a less vo-
luptuous smile as if Nature were more at home.
Presently I came to the turn of the lane
which led at once to L 's house in a few
minutes I was at the gate. Within, the grounds,
though not extensive, have the appearance of
being so the trees are of great size, and the turf
is broken into many a dell and hollow, which gives
the lawn a wild and a park-like appearance. The
house is
quaint and old-fashioned (not Gothic
VOL. II. N
266 THE NEW PH^DO.
or Elizabethan) in its architecture ;
it seems to
have been begun at the latter period of the
reign of James the First, and to have undergone
sundry alterations, the latest of which might have
occurred at the time of Anne. The old brown
bricks are three parts covered with jessamine
and ivy, and the room in which L generally
passes his day, looks out upon a grove of trees,
amidst which, at every opening, are little clusters
and parterres of flowers. And in this spot, half
wood half garden, I found my friend, seduced
from his books by the warmth and beauty of the
day, seated on a rustic bench, and surrounded
by the numerous dogs, which of all species and
all sizes, he maintains in general idleness and
favour.
" I love," said L , speaking of these re-
tainers,
" like old Montaigne, to have animal
life around me. The mere consciousness and
sensation of existence is so much stronger in
brutes than in ourselves, their joy in the com-
mon air and sun is so vivid and buoyant, that I
(who think we should sympathise with all things,
if we would but condescend to remark all things,)
THE NEW PKLEDO. 267
feel a contagious exhilaration of spirits, in their
openness to pleasurable perceptions. And how
happy, in reality, the sentiment of life is!
how glorious a calm we inhale in the warm sun !
how rapturous a gladness in the fresh winds !
how profound a meditation and delight in the
stillness of the 'starry time!' how sufficient
alone to make us happy is external nature, were
it not for these eternal cares that we create for
ourselves. Man would be happy but that he is
forbidden to be so by men. The most solitary
persons have always been the least repining."
A. But then their complacency arises from
the stagnation of the intellect it is indifference,
not happiness.
L. Pardon me, I cannot think so. How many
have found solitude not only, as Cicero calls it,
the pabulum of the mind, but the nurse of their
genius ! How many of the world's most sacred
oracles have been uttered like those of Dodona,
from the silence of deep woods ! Look over the
lives of men of genius, how far the larger
proportion of them have been passed in loneli-
N 2
268 THE NEW PH.EDO.
ness. Now, for my part, I think solitude has its
reward both for the dull and the wise; the
former are therein more sensible to the mere
animal enjoyment which is their only source of
happiness : the latter are not (by the irritation,
the jealousy, the weariness, the round of small
cares, which the crowd produces) distracted from
that contemplation, and those pursuits, which
constitute the chief luxury of their life and the
TO KO.XOV of their desires. There is a feeling of es-
cape, when a man who has cultivated his faculties
rather in thought than action, finds himself, after
a long absence in cities, returned to the spissa
nemora domusque Nympharum, which none
but himself can comprehend. With what a deep
and earnest dilation Cowley luxuriates in that,
the most eloquent essay perhaps in the lan-
guage !
although, as a poet, the author of the
Davideis was idolised far beyond his merits by
a courtly audience, and therefore was not sus-
ceptible, like most of his brethren, of that neg-
lect of the crowd which disgusts our hearts by
mortifying our vanity. How calm, how august,
THE NEW PHJEDO. 269
and yet how profoundly joyful is the vein with
which he dwells on the contrast of the town
and the country !
" We are here among the
vast and noble scenes of Nature. We are there
among the pitiful shifts of policy. We walk
here in the light and open ways of Divine
bounty. We grope there in the dark and con-
fused labyrinths of human malice !
"
A. There is a zest even in turning from the
harsher subjects, not only of life, but of lite-
rature, to passages like these ! How these green
spots of the poetry of sentiment soften and re-
generate the heart !
L. And so, after wading through the long and
dry details, which constitute the greater part oi
history, you may conceive the pleasure with
which I next turned to that more grateful me-
thod of noting the progress of nations, the
history of their literature.
A. I thank you for renewing the thread
broken off in our last conversation. We had
been speaking of the reflections which history
awakened in your mind. That necessary (and
270 THE NEW PHLEDO.
yet how seldom an useful) study, was followed
then by the relaxation of more graceful lite-
rature.
L. Yes, and in the course of this change, a
singular effect was produced in my habits of
mind. Hitherto I had read without much emu-
lation. Philosophy, while it soothes the reason,
damps the ambition. And so few among histo-
rians awaken our more lively feelings, and so little
in history encourages us to pass the freshness of
our years in commemorating details at once
frivolous to relate and laborious to collect, that
I did not find myself tempted by either study to
compose a treatise or a record. But Fiction
now opened to me her rich and wonderful
world I was brought back to early (and early
are always aspiring) feelings by those magical
fascinations, which had been so dear to my
boyhood. The sparkling stores of wit and fancy,
the deep and various mines of poesy, stretched
before me, and I was covetous ! I desired to
possess, .and to reproduce. There is a Northern
legend of a man who had resisted all the temp-
THE NEW PH^DO. 271
tations the earth could offer. The demon
opened to his gaze the marvels beneath the
earth. Trees effulgent with diamond fruits,
pillars of gold, and precious stones, fountains
with water of a million hues, and over all a
floating and delicious music instead of air. The
tempter succeeded: envy and desire were
created in the breast that had been calm till
then. This weakness was a type of mine !
I was not only charmed with the works around
me, but I became envious of the rapture which
they who created them, must, I fancied, have
enjoyed. I recalled that intense and all-glowing
description which De Stael has given in her
Essay on Enthusiasm, of the ecstasy which an
author enjoys, not in the publication, but the
production, of his work. Could Shakspeare, I
exclaimed, have erected his mighty Temple to
Fame, without feeling, himself, the inspiration
which consecrated the shrine? Must he not
have enjoyed, above all the rest of mankind,
every laugh that rang from Falstaff, or every
moral that came from the melancholy Jacques ?
272 THE NEW PH^DO.
Must he not have felt the strange and airy
rapture of a preternatural being, when his soul
conjured up the Desert Island, the Caliban,
and the Ariel? Must he not have been in-
toxicated with a gladness, lighter and more
delicate, yet, oh, more exquisite and rich, than
any which the harsh merriment of earth can
father, when his fancy dwelt in the summer
noon under the green boughs with Titania, and
looked on the ringlets of the fairies, dewy with
the kisses of the flowers? And was there no
delight in the dark and weird terror with which
he invoked the grisly Three,
" so withered and
so wild in their attire," who, in foretelling,
themselves created, the bloody destinies of
Macbeth ? So far from believing, as some have
done, that the feelings of genius are inclined to
sadness and dejection it seemed to me vitally
necessary to genius to be vividly susceptible to
enjoyment. The poet in prose or verse the
Creator can only stamp his images forcibly on
the page in proportion as he has keenly felt,
ardently nursed, and long brooded over them.
THE NEW PHLEDO. 273
And how few among the mass of writings that
float down to posterity are not far more im-
pregnated with the bright colourings of the
mind, than its gloomier hues !
Homer, Virgil,
Ariosto, Voltaire, Goethe, Cervantes and per-
haps, a lower grade Scott, Fielding, Le Sage,
Moliere. What a serene and healthful cheerful-
ness, nay, what a quick and vigorous zest of
life, are glowingly visible in all ! It is with a
very perverted judgment that some have fas-
tened on the few exceptions to the rule, and
have asserted that the gloom of Byron or the
morbidity of Rousseau, characterize not the in-
dividual, but the tribe. Nay, even in these ex-
ceptions, I imagine that, could we accurately
examine, we should find, that the capacity to
enjoy strongly pervaded their temperament, and
made out of their griefs a luxury ! Who shall
say whether Rousseau, breathing forth his 'Re-
veries,' or Byron tracing the Pilgrimage of
'
Childe Harold,' did not more powerfully feel
the glory of the task, than the sorrow it was to
immortalize ? Must they not have been exalted
N5
274 THE NEW PH^EDO.
with an almost divine gladness, by the beauty of
their own ideas, the melody of their own mur-
murs, the wonders of their own art ? Perhaps
we should find that Rousseau did not experience
a deeper pleasure, though it might be of a
livelier hue, when he dwelt on his racy enjoy-
ment of his young and pedestrian excursion,
than when in his old age, and his benighted,
but haunted mood, he filled the solitude with
imaginary enemies, and bade his beloved lake
echo to self-nursed woes.
You see then that I was impressed, erro-
neously or truly, with the belief, that in cul-
tivating the imagination I should cultivate my
happiness. I was envious, not so much of the
fame of the ornaments of letters, as of the
enjoyment they must have experienced in ac-
quiring it. I shut myself in a closer seclu-
sion, not to study the thoughts of others, but
to embody my own, I had been long ambi-
tious of the deepest hoards of learning. I now
became ambitious of adding to the stores of a
lighter knowledge.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 275
A. And did you find that luxury in ideal
reation which you expected ?
L. I might have done so, but I stopped short
in my apprenticeship.
A. And the cause ?
L. Why, one bright day in June, as I was
sitting alone in my room, I was suddenly aroused
from my reverie, by a sharp and sudden pain,
that shot through my breast, and when it left
me I fainted away. I was a little alarmed by
this circumstance, but thought the air might
relieve me. I walked out, and ascended a hill
at the back of the house. My attention being
now aroused and directed towards myself, I was
startled to find my breath so short that I was
forced several times to stop in the ascent. A
low, short cough, which I had not heeded before,
now struck me as a warning, which I ought to
prepare myself to obey. That evening as I
looked in the glass, for the first time for several
weeks with any care in the survey, I perceived
that my apprehensions were corroborated by the
change in my appearance. My cheeks were fallen,
276 THE NEW PH^DO.
and I detected in the midst of their natural pale-
ness, that hectic which never betrays its
augury.
I saw that my days were numbered, and I lay
down on my pillow that night with the resolve to
prepare for death. The next day when I looked
over my scattered papers; when I saw the
mighty schemes I had commenced, and recalled
the long and earnest absorption of all my facul-
ties, which even that commencement had re-
quired, I was seized with a sort of despair. It
was evident that I could now perform nothing
great, and as for trifles, ought they to occupy
the mind of one whose eye was on the grave ?
There was but one answer to this question. I
committed my fragments to the flames ; and now
there came, indeed, upon me a despondency I
had not felt before. I saw myself in the con-
dition of one, who, after much travail in the
world, has found a retreat, and built a home, and
who in the moment he says to his heart,
" Now
thou shalt have rest !" beholds himself sum-
moned away. I had found an object it was torn
from me my staff was broken, and it was only
THE NEW PH^EDO. 277
left to me to creep to the tomb, without easing
by any support the labour of the way. I had
coveted no petty aim I had not bowed my de-
sires to the dust and mire of men's common
wishes I had bade my ambition single out a
lofty end and pursue it by generous means. In
the dreams of my spirit, I had bound the joys
of my existence to this one aspiring hope, nor
had I built that hope on the slender foundations
of a young inexperience I had learned, I had
thought, I had toiled, before I ventured in my
turn to produce. And now, between myself and
the fulfilment of schemes, that I had wrought
with travail, and to which I looked for no undue
reward there yawned the Eternal Gulf. It
seemed to me as if I was condemned to leave
life, at the moment I had given to life an object.
There was a bitterness in these thoughts which
it was not easy to counteract. In vain, I said
to my soul,
"
Why grieve ? Death itself does
not appal thee. And after all, what can life's
proudest objects bring thee better than rest ?"
But we learn at last to conquer our destiny, by
278 THE NEW PH^EDO.
surveying it ; there is no regret which is not to
be vanquished by resolve. And now, when I
saw myself declining day by day, I turned to
those more elevating and less earthly medita-
tions, which supply us, as it were, with wings,
when the feet fail. They have become to me
dearer than the dreams which they succeeded,
and they whisper to me of a brighter immortality
than that of Fame.
279
CONVERSATION THE EIGHTH.
S OCCASIONAL RESTLESSNESS AT THE THOUGHT OF DEATH
ANECDOTE OF THE LAST HOURS OF A MAN UNWILLING TO DIE
L *S GRATITUDE THAT THE GRADUAL DECAY OF HIS POWERS
PREPARES HIM FOR HIS END CRITICISM ON THE "NIGHT
THOUGHTS" SURVEY OF CONTEMPORANEOUS POETRY REMARK-
ABLE DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE BLANK VERSE AND RHYME OF THE
SAME PERIOD THE FORMER MORE ENGLISH PECULIARITIES OF
THE OLD ENGLISH MUSE ITS QUAINT LOVE OF CLASSICAL ALLU-
SION ITS MIXTURE OF THE GRAVE AND GAY ITS MINUTENESS
IN RURAL DESCRIPTION, &C. POPE COMPARED WITH THOMSON;
AKENSIDE WITH JOHNSON YOUNG HIS TENDENCY TO THE AM-
BITIOUS THE VIEWS OF LIFE MORE GLOOMY IN THE GREEK THAN
THE ROMAN POETS THE ENGLISH MUSE RATHER ADOPTS THOSE
OF THE FORMER YOUNG EMBUED WITH OUR EARLIER POETRY
THESUBLIMEST POETS ABOUND WITH THE HOMELIEST IMAGES AND,
IN MODERN LITERATURE, ALSO WITH THE MOST EXAGGERATED
CONCFITS YOUNG THEREFORE JUSTIFIED BY THEIR EXAMPLE IN
HIS HOMELINESS AND QUAINTNESS HIS SUBLIME POWEK OF PER-
SONIFICATION HIS TERSENESS DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE RANK
OF THE POET AND THAT OF THE POEM THE GRANDEUR OF THE
CONCEPTION OF THE NIGHT THOUGHTS AS COMPARED WITH CHILDE
280 THE NEW PH^DO.
HAROLD AND OTHER DIDACTIC POEMS THE POET's CONCEPTION IS
SUSTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WISDOM OF HIS MAXIMS THE
BEAUTY OF HIS DICTION CONCLUDING REMARKS ON YOUNG'S
CHARACTER APOLOGY FOR RETAILING L 's CRITICISMS.
IT is with a melancholy pleasure that I have
been made sensible of the interest that these
conversations have excited in the gentler and
more thoughtful of the tribe of readers.* I have
received more anonymous letters than I care to
name, complaining of the long silence I have
preserved, and urging me to renew Dialogues,
already so often repeated, that I might well ima-
gine (knowing how impatient the readers of a
periodical generally are of subjects continued in
a series) that they had sufficiently exhausted the
indulgence of the public. To me individually,
there is little that is flattering in any interest
these papers may have created. I am but the
echo of another; or, to use an old, yet still
*
The reader will here remember that these dia-
logues first appeared in a detached shape in the New
Monthly Magazine there was an interval of several
months (from May to November) between the appear-
ance of the last and the following conversation.
THE NEW PHJEDO. 281
graceful metaphor, I only furnish the string
which keeps the flowers together. The reasons
of my silence have been twofold. Amidst the
strife and ferment of passing events, the thoughts
and feelings, the mental history, of an indivi-
dual seemed to fade into insignificance ;
and I
deemed it fairer justice to L to reserve that
history to calmer opportunities. If I must
name another motive, I will frankly add, that I
have not of late had the heart to proceed.
Never more now but no I will not anticipate
a story which, so far as events and incidents
create interest, has so little to recommend it.
The reader need fear no farther interruption.
All that remains to relate is already prepared,
and I have but to send it, portion by portion,
to the press, until the whole is concluded,
" And the spell closes with its silent seal."
'
And now I saw L daily, for his disease
increased rapidly upon him, and I would not
willingly have lost any rays of that sun that was
so soon to set for ever. Nothing creates with-
in us so many confused and strange sentiments
282 THE NEW PH^EDO.
as a conversation on those great and lofty topics
of life or nature, which are rarely pleasing, ex-
cept to Wisdom which contemplates, and Genius
which imagines ;
a conversation on such topics
with one whose lips are about to be closed for an
eternity. This thought impresses even common
words with a certain sanctity ; what, then, must
it breathe into matters which, even in ordinary
times, are consecrated to our most high-wrought
emotions and our profoundest hopes ?
I saw, then, L daily, and daily he grew
more resigned to his fate ; yet I cannot deny
that there were moments when his old ambition
would break forth when the stir of the living
world around him wr
hen action, enterprise, and
fame spoke loudly to his heart; moments
when he wished to live on, and the deep quiet
of the grave seemed to him chilling and un-
timely ;
and reflect, while we were convers-
ing on these calm and unearthly topics, what
was the great world about? Strife and agita-
tion the stern wrestle between topics that
have been and the things to come the vast up-
heavings of society the revolution of mind that
THE NEW PH^EDO. 283
was abroad was not this felt, even to the soli-
tary heart of that retirement in which the lamp
of a bright and keen existence was wasting it-
self away !
" I remember," said L , one evening,
when we sate conversing in his study ;
the sofa
wheeled round ;
the curtains drawn ;
the table
set, and the night's sedentary preparations made ;
" I remember hearing the particulars of the
last hours of an old acquaintance of mine, a
lawyer, rising into great eminence in his profes-
sion a resolute, hard-minded, scheming, am-
bitious man. He was attacked in the prime of
life with a sudden illness ; mortification ensued ;
there was no hope ;
he had some six or seven
hours of life before him, and no more. He was
perfectly sensible of his fate, and wholly unrecon-
ciled to it.
'
Come hither,' he said to the phy-
sician, holding out his arm ; (he was a man of re-
markable physical strength;) 'Look at these
muscles ; they are not wasted by illness ;
I am
still at this moment in the full vigour of man-
hood, and you tell me I must die !' He ground
284 THE NEW PH-&DO.
his teeth as he spoke.
'
MarV., I am not re-
signed ;
I will battle with this enemy ;'
and he
raised himself up, called for food and wine, and
died with the same dark struggles and fiery re-
sistance that he would have offered in battle to
some embodied and palpable foe. Can you not
enter into his feelings ? I can most thoroughly.
Yes," L renewed, after a short pause,
" I
ought to be deeply grateful that my mind has
been filed down and conciliated to what is ine-
vitable by the gradual decay of my physical
powers; the spiritual habitant is not abruptly
and violently expelled from its mansion ;
but the
mansion itself becomes ruinous, and the inmate
has had tune to prepare itself for another. Yet
when I see you all about me, strong for the race
and eager for the battle when, in the dead of a
long and sleepless night, images of all I might
have done, had the common date of life been
mine, start up before me, I feel as a man must
feel who finds himself suddenly arrested in the
midst of a journey, of which all the variety of
scene, the glow of enterprise, the triumph of
THE NEW PH^DO. 285
discovery, were yet to come. It is like the tra-
veller who dies in sight of the very land that he
has sacrificed the ease of youth and the plea-
sures of manhood to reach. But these are not
the reflections I ought to indulge let me avoid
them. And where can I find a better refuge
for my thoughts than in talking to you of this
poem, which, long ago, we said we would at-
tempt to criticize, and which of all modern
works, gloomy and monotonous as it seems to
men in the flush of life, offers the calmest and
most sacred consolation to those whom Life's
objects should no longer interest ?"
A. You speak of "The Night Thoughts?"
Ay, we were to have examined that curious
poem, which has so many purchasers, and has
been honoured with so few critics. Certainly,
when we remember the day in which it appear-
ed, and the poetry by which it has been succeed-
ed, it is worthy of a more ample criticism than,
with one exception, it has received.
" It is
very remarkable," said L , wil-
lingly suffering himself to sink into a more com-
286 THE NEW PH.EDO.
mon-place vein,
" how great a difference the
spirit of poetry in the last century assumes,
when breathed through the medium of blank
verse, and through that of rhyme. In rhyme, the
fashion of poetry was decidedly French, and arti-
ficial; polish, smoothness, point, and epigram
are its prevailing characteristics ; but in blank-
verse, that noble metre, introduced by Surrey,
and perfected by Shakspeare, the old genius of
English poetry seems to have made a stubborn
and resolute stand. In the same year that Pope
produced
'
The Dunciad,' appeared the '
Sum-
mer '
of James Thomson. Two years prior to
that, viz. 1726, the first published of the Sea-
sons,
'
Winter,' had been added to the wealth
of English poetry, unnoticed at first, but singled
out happily by perhaps the best critic of the
day, Whately, and recommended by his, to
more vulgar, admiration. '
The Seasons
'
is a
thoroughly national poem, thoroughly English :
not that Thomson, or that any English poet of
great name, has entirely escaped the affectation
of classical models ;
that affectation is indeed to
THE NEW PHvEDO. 287
be found not the least frequently among those
poets the most purely national. Nicholas Gri-
moald, the second English poet in blank verse
after Surrey a translator as well as poet is a
curious instance of the English spirit blended
with the Latin school. Thus, in his poem on
Friendship, the lines
'
O f all the heavenly gifts, that mortal men commend
What trusty treasure in the world can countervail a
friend !
Our health is soon decayed, goods casual, light and
vain,
Broke have we seen the force of power, and honour
surfer stain!'
These lines, I say, are soon afterwards followed
by references to Scipio and Lselius, and Cicero
and Atticus ; and, by the way, Theseus and
Pirithous, or, as he is pleased to abbreviate the
latter name, Pirith^ are thus made the vehicle
to one of those shrewd hits of quaint, odd satire
which the old poets so loved to introduce
'
Down Theseus went to hell,
Pirith, his friend, to find;
Oh that the wives, in these our days,
Were to their mates as kind!'
288 THE NEW PHJEDO.
"
So, in short, through all the long series
of English poets through those preceding
Elizabeth Vaux, Sackville even the homely
Tusser in his '
Five Hundreth poyates of good
Husbandrie,' (certainly as English and as rural a
poem as possible,) fly with peculiar avidity to
ancient times for ornaments and allusions the
most unseasonable and ostentatious. The grace
and elegance of Elizabeth's age were no preven-
tives to the same perversion of taste; Chris-
tianity and Mythology, knight-errantry and
stoicism, Gothic qualities and Roman names,
all unite together in the most exulting defiance
of reason and common-sense ;
*
The Arcadia,'
(a poem, if Telemachus has rightly been called
a poem,) of the polished Sidney is the most
arabesque of all these mixtures of poetical archi-
tecture ; Shakspeare does not escape the mania ;
MarloAve plunges into it ; Ben Jonson, with all
his deep learning, and certainly correct taste,
portrays his own age most faithfully, but covers
the dress with Roman jewellery. The taste
continued; the sanctity of Milton's theme, and
THE NEW PHJEDO. 289
the rigidity of his religious sect, sufficed not to
exclude from his venerable page
'
Osiris, Isis, Orus, and their train.'
The gods of old are translated to sees in the
modern Hell
'
Titan, heaven's first-born,
With his enormous brood and birthright seized
By younger Saturn, he from mightier Jove
His own and Rhea's son, like measure found :
So Jove usurping reigned these first in Crete
And Ida known, thence on the snowy top
Of cold Olympus ruled !'
Even in the Hebrew Paradise
'
The universal Pan
Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance
Leads on the eternal Spring !'
The climax of beauty in Raphael's appearance,
is that
'
Like Maia's son he stood.'
And " the Eternal
"
himself borrows Homer's
scales, to decide upon the engagement between
fiend and angel
'
Golden scales yet seen
Betwixt Astraea and the Scorpion sign.'
VOL. II. O
290 THE NEW PH^EDO.
We all know how much the same classic adul-
terations mingle with the English Helicon at a
later period; how little even _ the wits of the
time of Charles the Second escape the here-
ditary taint. Sedley's mistresses are all Uranias
and Phillises. Now he borrows a moral from
Lycophron, and next he assures us, in one of the
prettiest of his songs that
'
Love still has something of the sea
From whence his mother rose.'
Dryden, whose excellence never lay in an ac-
curate taste, though in his admirable prose
writings he proves that he knew the theory
while he neglected the practice, is less painfully
classical and unseasonably mythological than
might have been expected; and as from his
time the school of poetry became more systema-
tically copied from a classical model, so it be-
came less eccentric in its classical admixtures.
Pope is at once the most Roman * of all our
poets, and the least offensive in his Romanism.
I mention all this to prove, that when we find
much that is borrowed, and often awkwardly
*
And the least Greek.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 291
borrowed, from ancient stores, ancient names,
and ancient fables, in those poets of the last
century, whom I shall take the licence to call
pre-eminently English, we must not suppose
that they are, from that fault, the less national ;
nay, that very aptitude to borrow, that very ten-
dency to confuse their present theme with the
incongruous ornaments of a country wholly op-
posite from our own, are almost., on the contrary,
a testimony how deeply they were imbued with
that spirit which belonged to the most genuine
of their predecessors.
"
Among the chief characteristics of our Eng-
lish poetry, are great minuteness and fidelity in
rural description a deep melancholy in moral
reflection, coupled with a strong and racy apti-
tude to enjoy the sweets of life as well as to
repine at the bitters a glowing richness, a
daring courage, of expression, and a curious
love of abrupt change in thought and diction ; so
that the epigrammatic and the sublime, the
humorous and the grave, the solemn and the
quaint, are found in a juxtaposition the most
o2
292 THE NEW PH^DO.
singular and startling ;
as much the reverse of
the severe simplicity of the true ancient schools
as possible, and having its resemblance, and that
but occasionally, and in this point alone, in the
Italian.*
" In the middle of the last century, the three
greatest of the poets in blank-verse are Aken-
side, Thomson, and Young. Of these three,
the last I consider the rt}ost thoroughly Eng-
lish in his muse; but, with the exception of
that love of blending extremes, which I have
noted before, the two former are largely pos-
sessed of the great features of their national
tribe. Pope's pastorals were written at so early
an age that it would not be fair to set them in
comparison with *
Thomson's Seasons' had
Pope's descriptions of scenery ever undergone
any change in their spirit and conception, in
proportion as he added to the correct ear of his
youth the bold turn, the exquisite taste, the
* Critics not acquainted with our early literature
have imagined this mixture of grave and gay the off-
spring of late years, nay, some have actually attributed
its origin in England to Byron's imitations from the
Italian.
THE NEW PH7EDO. 293
incomparable epigram, and even (witness the
prologue to '
Cato') the noble thought and the
august image, which adorn the poetry of his
maturer years ;
but however Pope improved in
all else, his idea, his notion of rural description
always remained pretty nearly the same viz.
as trite as it could be. And this, an individual
failing, was the failing also of his school the
eminent failing of the French school to this very
day. Well then, Pope having fixed upon Au-
tumn as the season of a short pastoral, chooses
'
tuneful Hylas' for his songster, and telling us
first, that
'
Now setting Phoebus shone serenely bright,
And fleecy clouds were strewed with purple light ;'
'
Tuneful Hylas' then, thus
'
Taught rocks to weep and made the mountains
groan.'
'
Now bright Arcturus glads the teeming grain,
Now golden fruits on loaded branches shine,
And grateful clusters swell with floods of wine ;
Now blushing berries paint the yellow grove,
Just gods ! shall all things yield returns but love ?'
" These lines are very smooth, and for the
294 THE NEW PH.EDO.
age at which they were composed, surprisingly
correct. They are as good, perhaps, as any
thing in " Les Jardins' of Delille, but there is
not a vestige of English poetry in them not a
vestige. Thomson would not have written them
at any age, and Pope would only have polished
them more had he written them when he pub-
lished the '
Dunciad,' i. e. as I said before, in
the same year in which Thomson published the
*
Summer.' But thus begins the poet of the
4
Seasons
'
with his '
Autumn.'
'
Crowned with the? sickle, and the wheaten sheaf,
While Autumn nodding o'er the yellow plain,
Comes jovial on
* *
... .
broad, brown, below
Extensive harvests hang the heavy head,
Rich, silent, deep they stand ! for not a gale
Rolls its light billows o'er the bending plain,
A calm ofplenty !'
Again, how fine what follows ! Wordsworth
is not more true to Nature. He speaks of the
Autumn fogs
'
Expanding far
The huge dusk, gradual, swallows up the plain,
THE NEW PH/EDO. *295
Vanish the woods the dim seen river seems
Sullen and slow to roll the misty wave,
Even in the height of noon opprest, the sun
Sheds weak
Indistinct on earth,
Seen through the tumid air, beyond the life
Objects appear ; and wildered o'er the waste
The shepherd stalks gigantic till at last
Wreathed dun around, in deeper circles still
Successive, closing sits the general fog
Unbounded o'er the world, and mingling thick,
A formless grey confusion covers all.'
This is description ! and this is national !
this is English ! albeit it was the Tweed,
'
Whose pastoral banks first heard that Doric reed.'
"
Again too, in another vein that inclination
to stoop from the grave to the low which, as I
have hinted, is less frequently displayed in
Thomson than in Young (in Akenside, it is
scarcely, if at all, noticeable) this is English.
A fox-hunter's debauch,
'
Set ardent in
For serious drinking,
*****
confused above
Glasses and bottles, pipes and gazetteers,
296 THE NEW PH^EDO.
As if the table even itself was drunk,
Lie a wet broken scene, and wide below
Is heaped the social slaughter, where astride
The lubber power in filthy triumph sits, &c.
Perhaps some doctor of tremendous paunch,
Awful and deep, a black abyss ofdrink,
Outlives them all !' &c.
" These are passages, which (mixing the
serious with the burlesque) would be rarely
found in the same poem in any other language
than ours and the spirit that pervades blank
verse, such as this, is altogether different from
that which reigned over the contemporaneous
rhymes of the day. It breathes of life, of ac-
tion, of the open air, of the contemplative walk
in the fields at eve, or the social hearth at night.
But the genius of rhyme lived in London
talked with courtiers made love and witticisms
in a breath 'babbled about green fields' in a
dusty closet and when it walked into print it
was never without a bag-wig and a sword.
" The '
Seasons
'
were completed in 1 730.
Fourteen years afterwards appeared Akenside's
'
Pleasures of Imagination :' it is a great poem :
THE NEW PHJEDO. 297
but Akenside's habits of mind his pedantry
and stiffness were not well adapted to the
subject he chose. There is a straining and la-
bour about his verse as if it were the offspring
rather of the Pains than the Pleasures of Ima-
gination. His love of Latin composition tends
also to unanglicize his diction. Thus his poem is
infinitely too scholastic, and certainly neither in
vigour or richness of expression, in close de-
scription, in sublimity, in terseness, in avoidance
of cold generalities, is he to be put on a par
with Thomson or Young. But still if you com-
pare his blank verse with his own rhyme, or
with that of Johnson's '
London,' (which, though
I do not remember the exact date it was pub-
lished, must have appeared some six or seven
years before,) you find the native muse more
visible, more at liberty in the blank verse, than
the other and more crippled metre. I mention
Johnson in particular, for the genius of both Avas
scholastic and didactic. Both thought of the
Ancients the one copied from Juvenal, the other
imagined from Lucretius. The passages I shall
o 5
298 THE NEW PHJEDO.
quote from each are strictly classical. But one
is of the old English race of classical description
it breathes of Spenser and of Milton the
other was the anti-national, the new, the bor-
rowed, the diluted, the classical description,
which steals the triteness of old, without its
richness. One takes the dress the other the
jewels. Thus Johnson :
'
Couldst thou resign the park and play, content,
For the fair banks of Severn or of Trent ;
There mightst thou find some elegant retreat,
Some hireling senator's deserted seat,
And stretch thy prospects o'er the smiling land,
For less than rent the dungeons of the Strand ;
There prune thy walks, support thy drooping flowers,
Direct thy rivulets, and twine thy bowers,
And while thy grounds a cheap repast afford,
Despise the dainties of a venal lord ;
There every bush with nature's music rings,
There every breeze bears health upon its wings :
On all thy hours security shall smile,
And bless thine evening walk, and morning toil.'
" Now then for Akenside. He has burst
into an apostrophe on Beauty (with Johnson it
would have been Venus !) and after asking whe-
ther She will fly
THE NEW PHJEDO. 299
'
With laughing Autumn to the Atlantic Isles/
the poet adds
'
Or wilt them rather stoop thy vagrant plume
Where, gliding through his daughter's honoured
shades,
The smooth Peneus from his glassy flood
Reflects purpureal Tempe's pleasant scene
Fair Tempe ! haunt beloved of sylvan powers
Of Nymphs and Fauns, where in the golden age
They played in secret on the shady brink
With antient Pan. While round their choral steps
Young hours and genial gales with constant hand
Showered blossoms, odours, showered ambrosial
dews,
And Spring's elysian bloom !'
" Here all is classic antique Grecian it
might be a translation from Euripides. But
how different the life in this page, to the cold
resuscitation of dry bones in Johnson !
Johnson,
who despised the fine ballads which make the
germ of all that is vivid and noble in our poetry,
could not have comprehended the difference be-
tween the genuine antique and the mock. They
both have filled their vases from the old fountain
'
splendidior vitro ? but the vase of one is the
300 THE NEW PHJEDO.
Etruscan shape and that of the other is a
yellow-ware utensil from Fleet Street. But
now, having somewhat prepared ourselves by the
short survey retrospective and contempora-
neous that we have thus taken of English
poetry, we come at once to Young a man
whose grandeur of thought, whose sublimity of
expression, whose wonderful power of condens-
ing volumes into a line, place him, in my opinion,
wholly beyond the reach of any of his contem-
poraries, and enable him to combine the various
and loftiest characteristics of prose and verse ;
enable him to equal now a Milton in the im-
perial pomp of his imagery, and now a Tacitus
in the iron grasp of his reflection."
A. There seems to have been in Young's
mind a remarkable turn towards the Ambitious.
His poetry and his life equally betray that
loftiness of desire and straining after effect
which both in composition and character we
term ambitious.
L. It is rather a curious anecdote in literary
history, that the austere Young should have
THE NEW PKLEDO. 301
attempted to enter Parliament under the au-
spices of that profligate bankrupt of all
morality,
public and private, Philip Duke of Wharton.
Had he succeeded what difference might it
have made not only in Young's life but in his
character ! Is it not on the cards that the
grandest of all theological poets, (for neither
Milton nor Dante are in reality theological
poets, though they are often so called,) might
have become, in that vicious and jobbing age of
parliamentary history, a truckling adventurer or
an intriguing placeman ?
A. The supposition is not uncharitable when
we look to his after-life, and see his manoeuvres
for ecclesiastical preferment. For my own part
I incline to suspect that half the sublime me-
lancholy of the poet proceeded from the discon-
tent of the worldling.
L. It is certainly possible that not even the
loftiest sentiments the fullest mind the most
devout and solemn fervour of religion, may suffice
to chase away the poor and petty feelings that
in this artificial world fasten themselves around
302 THE NEW PH^DO.
the heart, and are often the base causes of the
most magnificent efforts of genius. The blight-
ing of a selfish ambition produced the Gulliver
of Swift and possibly also deepened the ebon
dyes of the verse of Young. A morbid discon-
tent an infirmity of constitution breathed its
gloom into the " Rasselas" of Johnson, and the
" Childe Harold
"
of Byron. When the poet flies,
after any affliction in the world, to his consolatory
and absorbing art, he is unaware that that afflic-
tion which inspires him is often composed of the
paltriest materials. So singular and complex,
in short, are the sources of inspiration, so com-
pletely and subtly are the clay and the gold
moulded together, that, though it
may be a
curious metaphysical pleasure to analyse, and
weigh, and sift, the good and the evil therein,
it is not a task that it is
very wise in us to un-
dertake. Let us drink into our souls the deep
thought and lofty verse of Lucretius, without
asking what share belonged to the philtre and
what to the genius.
We may remark that the contemplation ex-
THE NEW PH^EDO. 303
hibited in the poetry of the Ancients turns
usually towards a gay result, and sighs forth an
Epicurean moral the melancholy is soft, not
gloomy, and brightens up at its close.
" Vina liques, et spatio brevi
Spem longam reseces ; dum loquimur, fugerit invida
^Etas; carpe diem quam minimum credula postero."
Life is short while we speak it flies
enjoy
then the present and forget the future such is
the chief moral of ancient poetry, a graceful and
a wise moral indulged beneath a southern sky,
and well deserving the phrase applied to it
" the philosophy of the garden" telling us of
the brief and fleeting life of the flowers that sur-
round us, only to encourage us to hang over
their odours while we may. But it must be ob-
served that this, the more agreeable, shape of
melancholy is more remarkable among the Ro-
mans than the Greeks. Throughout the various
philosophies of the latter the dark and saddening
doctrine of an irresistible Fate flows like a bit-
ter stream ; and an unrelieved and heavy de-
304 THE NEW PH1EDO.
spondency among the less popular of the remains
of Greek poesy often comes in startling contrast
with the gayer wisdom of that more commonly
admired. Turn from Anacreon to the fragments
of Mimnermus, collected by Stobseus it is in-
deed turning from the roses to the sepulchre be-
neath. " Life is short we learn from the Gods
neither evil nor good the black fates are before
us death and old age at hand. Not one among
mortals whom Jupiter heaps not with afflictions,"
&c. It is chiefly from this more sombre order of
reflection that the English contemplative writers
deduce their inspiration. Lord Sackville, in
the "Mirror of Magistrates," may furnish no
inadequate notion of the exaggerating extent to
which we have carried despondency. He there-
in represents Sorrow in Hell, introducing the
reader to the principal characters in our history !
With our earlier writers Young was intimately
acquainted and deeply imbued. But of all great
poets his plagiarisms are the least naked.
Drummond says
" This world a hunting is ;
The prey poor man the Nimrod fierce is death."
THE NEW PH.EDO. 305
And Young at once familiarizes and exalts the
image
" I see the circling hunt of noisy men
Burst law's enclosure, leap the' mounds of right,
Pursuing and pursued, each other's prey
Till Death, that mighty Hunter, earths them all."
The love of common and daily images is very
remarkable in Young; but when we come to
examine the works of the greater poets, we shall
generally be surprised to find that those poets
who abound in the most lofty and far-fetched
images, invariably furnish also the most homely.
It is the genius in whom we miss the one that
avoids the other. We may be quite sure when
we open Shakspeare that the sublimest meta-
phor will be in the closest juxtaposition with
what in any one else we should not hesitate to
call the most vulgar
' c
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
To the last syllable of recorded time :
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
The way to dusty death Out out, briefcandle !"
It is too much the cry to accuse Young, as a
306 THE NEW PHJ2DO.
peculiarity in his genius, of being too bombas-
tic, and turgid, and peregrinate in his metaphors
fond of conceits and addicted to exaggeration.
Doubtless he is so ;
but as the man in the play
exclaims " Your great geniuses can never say
a thing like other people" and it certainly is
noticeable, though common-place or uninvesti-
gating critics have said the contrary, that in all
modern literature it is the loftiest order of ge-
nius that will furnish examples of the most
numerous exaggerations and the most grotesque
conceits. Among the Italians we all know hrt5V
prevalent they are. Even the cold rules of the
French drama do not banish them, and Cor-
neille still, beyond all comparison the grandest
of the French poets, is also the most addicted to
extravagances.
" Ma plus douce esperance est de perdre 1'espoir"*
is one among a thousand. You recollect, of
course, those extravagances which Addison se-
lects from Milton, and the many others in that
*
The Cid.
THE NEW PH^DO. 307
great poet which Addison did not select; in
short, when we blame Young for a want of strict
taste in his metaphors, we blame him for no
fault peculiar to himself, but one which he shares
with the greatest poets of modern times in so
remarkable a degree that it almost seems a ne-
cessary part of their genius. And I am not
quite certain whether, after all, it is
they, or we
the critics, who are in the wrong. I think that
had a list of their conceits been presented to
Milton and to Young, they would have had a
great deal to say in their defence. Certainly,
by the way, Dr. Johnson, in his hasty and slur-
ring essay on Young's poetry, has not been for-
tunate in the instances of conceits which he
quotes for reprobation. For example, he says
of a certain line applied to Tyre in Young's
Merchant " Let burlesque try to go beyond
him." The line is this
" Her Merchants Princes and each deck a throne !"
It is at least doubtful whether the words that
seem so ridiculous to Johnson, do not, on the
308 THE NEW PH^DO.
contrary, body forth a very bold and fine image;
and it is quite certain that the critic might have
selected at least a hundred far more glaring
specimens of conceit or tumidity. One great
merit in Young, and also one great cause of his
exaggerations is his habit of embodying feelings,
his fondness of personifying. For instance ;
"
My Hopes and Fears
Start up alarmed, and o'er life's narrow verge
Look down on what ? a fathomless abyss."
This vivifying the dread inmates of the hu-
man heart, and giving the Dark Invisible a
shape and action, is
singularly fine in the above
passage. Again :
"
Thought busy Thought too busy for my peace-
Through the dark postern of Time long elapsed,
Led softly by the stillness of the night,
Led like a murderer
...... meets the Ghosts
Of my departed joys."
There is here a dim and sepulchral life breathed
into the Thought that wanders and the Joys it
meets, that belongs only to the highest order of
THE NEW PH^EDO. 309
creative poetry ;
and sometimes a few lines tes-
tifying of this sublime power, will show as pro-
lific and exuberant an invention as that which
calls forth the beings of the Drama and the
Epic as the Greeks often conveyed their most
complicated similes in one epithet. It is
scarcely
possible to conceive a more solemn and impressive
example of this faculty than where afterwards
he calls his sorrow itself into a separate exist-
ence, and says
" Punctual as Lovers to the moment sworn
I keep an assignation with my Woe."
But if this great proneness to personify produces
so much that is the greatest in Young it pro-
duces also that which criticism condemns as the
lowest. For instance, you will smile at the fol-
lowing verses :
Who can take
Death's portrait true the Tyrant never sat."
*****
*****
" Rude thought runs wild in contemplation's field,
Converse the manege breaks it to the bit.
310 THE NEW PHJEDO.
He 's at the door,
Insidious Death should his strong hand arrest,
No composition sets the prisoner free."
It is the same habit of personification which,
I think, on looking over Milton and Shakspeare,
you will find mainly produce the same fault (if
fault it really be) in them.
That power of the Greeks to which I have
alluded of conveying the most complicated
images by a word, belongs also to Young in a
greater degree than to any poet since his time.
As where he exclaims
" Much wealth how little worldlings can enjoy ;
At best it babies us with endless toys."
And again a finer instance
" Mine" (joys)
" died with thee, Philander ; thy
last sigh
Dissolved the charm ; the disenchanted earth
Lost all her lustre. Where her glittering towers,
Her golden mountains where ? all darkened down
To naked waste a dreary vale of years
The great Magician 's dead !"
THE NEW PH^DO. 311
Here the whole contents of the preceding
lines the whole power of friendship the whole
victory of death, are summed up at once in the
words
" The great MAGICIAN 's dead !"
Nothing, indeed, throughout the whole poem
is more remarkable in Young than his power of
condensation. He gathers up a vast store 01
thought, and coins the whole into one inestima-
ble sentence. He compresses the porosities of
language, and embodies a world of meaning in
a single line. And it is indeed remarkable, that
a writer possessing this power to so unrivalled a
degree, should ever subject himself with justice
to the charge of tumidity.
But what place in our literature is to be as-
signed to Young ? At present, his position is
vague and uncertain. Like many other of our
'
poets, his merits are acknowledged, but his sta-
tion undecided. Shall we place him before
Pope ? Pope's admirers would be startled at
the presumption. Below Goldsmith? Few
312 THE NEW PHJEDO.
would assert the " Deserted Village '.' to be a
greater poem than the "
Night Thoughts."
What is his exact rank ? I confess that I should
incline to place it on a very lofty eminence. In a
word, I should consider the "
Night Thoughts,"
altogether, the finest didactic poem in the lan-
guage. The greatest orders of poetry, we all
allow, are the epic and the dramatic. I am at a
loss to say whether, in general-, lyrical or didac-
tic poetry should be placed next ;
but I am sure
that, in our country, didactic poetry takes the
precedence. None of our lyrists haje equalled
our great didactic writers; and with us, the
order itself of lyrical writing seldom aspires be-
yond the graceful. But it must be understood
that there is sometimes a great difference be-
tween the rank of the poem and that of the
poet ; many writings of great excellence can pile
up a higher reputation than one work of the
greatest Both Voltaire and Scott depend, not
only on the quality but the quantity of their
productions, for their fame. When the public
were crying out that the author of "
Waverley
"
THE NEW PH^SDO. 313
was writing too much and too fast, they did not
perceive that even his inferior works contributed
to swell the sum of his glory, by proving the
fertility of his genius. And to him may be
well applied the words applied to another " he
would not have effected such great things, if his
errors had been less numerous." So, although
I consider the "Night Thoughts" a poem en-
titled to rank immediately below the " Paradise
Lost," I am far from contending that Young
should rank as a poet immediately next to Mil-
ton. I think the "
Night Thoughts
"
a more
sustained, solemn, and mighty poem than the
" Childe Harold ;" but when I recall all the
works that accompany the latter produce of
the same fiery and teeming mind the dark tale
of " Lara "
the sweetness of the " Prisoner of
Chillon
"
the daring grandeur of "
Cain," and,
above all, the rich, nervous humour the deep
mastery of the li
ving world that breathes a cor-
poreal life into the shadows of the " Don Juan,"
I willingly allow Byron to be a greater genius,
and a greater poet, than Young.
VOL. ii. p
314 THE NEW PH^EDO.
A. But you really think the "
Night Thoughts"
finer than Childe Harold."
L. So much so, that I doubt if the finest parts
of " Childe Harold
"
the most majestic of its
reflections, and the most energetic of its de-
clamations are not found in those passages
which have been (perhaps indistinctly and un-
consciously) borrowed from Young. The fault
of the " Childe Harold "
is as a whole. There
is no grandeur in its conception. Every novel
in the Minerva Press furnishes a similar idea
of the hero and the plan. A discontented
young nobleman, sated and jaded, setting
out on his travels turn the conception as
you will, it comes always to that, in plain and
sober reality. But this poor and hacknied con-
ception the Poet has hid in so magnificent a
robe, and decorated with such a costly profusion
of gems, that it matters little to the delight and
interest of the reader. Still, in judging of it as
a great poem, we must remember, that in the
most important part of a great poem, it is defi-
cient. But the conception of the "
Night
THE NEW PH^SDO. 315
Thoughts," for a didactic poem, is
unutterably
grand. An aged and bereaved mourner stands
alone with the dead the grave his scene the
night his canopy and time, death, eternity-
the darkest, the loftiest objects of human hope
and human intellect, supply his only themes.
Here, in this spot, and at this hour, commencing
his strain with a majesty worthy of its aims and
end, he calls upon
" Silence and Darkness, solemn sisters, twins
From ancient Night, who nurse the tender thought
To Reason, and on Reason build Resolve,
That column of true majesty in man !
Assist me : I will thank you in the grave
The grave, your kingdom
"
Following the course of the sombre inspiration
u
that he adjures, he then passes in a vast review
before him, in the presence of the Stars, and
above the slumbers of the dead, the pomps and
glories of the world the veiled and shadowy
forms of Hope the dim hosts of Memory
" The Spirit walks of each departed Hour,
And smiles an angel, or a fury frowns
"
p 2
316 THE NEW PH.EDO.
Standing upon the grave the creations of two
worlds are round him, and the grey hairs of the
mourner become touched with the halo of the
prophet. It is the time and spot he has chosen
wherein to teach us, that dignify and consecrate
the lesson : it is not the mere human and earthly
moral that gathers on his tongue. The concep-
tion hallows the work, and sustains its own ma-
jesty in every change and wandering of the
verse. And there is this greatness in his theme
dark, terrible, severe Hope never deserts it !
It is a deep and gloomy wave, but the stars are
glassed upon its bosom. The more sternly he
questions the World, the more solemnly he refers
its answer to Heaven. Our bane and antidote
are both before him ; and he only arraigns the
things of Time before the tribunal of Eternity.
It is this, which, to men whom grief or approach-
ing death can divest of the love and hankerings
of the world, leaves the great monitor his ma-
jesty, but deprives him of his gloom. Con-
vinced with him of the vanities of life, it is
not an ungracious or unsoothing melancholy
THE NEW PHJEOO. 317
which confirms us in our cooTictiaa, and points
with a steady band to the dhine
that awaits us beyond;
And sacred afaMae whispering troths drone,
Aadtmtks dhie im0g paa to peace.*
I know not whether I should saj too much of
this great poem if I should call it a fit
Appendix
to the * Paradise Lost* It is tbe Consolation
to that Complaint. Imagine the ages to bare
rolled br since our first parents gave earth to
tbeirQfiprin& wbo sealed the gift with blood,
and bequeathed it to us with tofl :
imagine,
after aD that experience can teach after the
boarded wisdom and the increasing pomp *f
roimtVm generations an old man, one of that
exiled and fatten race, itaadh a^
of bis ancestors, teffing us their wbole historr,
in bis appeals to the firing heart, and holding
out to nsj with trembbng banda^ the onhr conv
fbrt which Earth bas yet dbeoverad far its cares
and sores the antiripatiM of Heaven! To
318 THE NEW PH^DO.
me, that picture completes all that Milton be-
gan. If sums up the Human History, whose
first chapter he had chronicled ; it
preacheth
the great issues of the Fall; it shows that
the burning light then breathed into the soul,
lives there still; it consummates the myste-
rious record of our mortal sadness and our
everlasting hope. But if the conception of the
"
Night Thoughts
"
be great, it is also uniform
and sustained. The vast wings of the Inspira-
tion never slacken or grow fatigued. Even the
humours and conceits are of a piece with the so-
lemnity of the poem like the grotesque masks
carved on the walls of a Cathedral, which defy the
strict laws of taste, and almost inexplicably har-
monize with the whole. The sorrow, too, of the
poet is not egotistical, or weak in its repining.
It is the Great One Sorrow common to all
human nature the deep and wise regret that
springs from an intimate knowledge of our being
and the scene in which it has been cast. That
same knowledge, operating on various minds,
produces various results, In Voltaire it sparkled
THE NEW PILEDO. 319
into wit : in Goethe, it deepened into a humour
that belongs to the sublime ;
in Young, it gene-
rated the same high and profound melancholy
as that which excited the inspirations of the
Son of Sirach, and the soundest portion of the
philosophy of Plato. It is, then, the concep-
tion of the poem, and its sustained flight, which
entitle it to so high a rank in our literature.
Turn from it to any other didactic poem, and
you are struck at once by the contrast you are
amazed at once by its greatness.
" The Sea-
sons
"
shrink into a mere pastoral ;
" The
Essay on Man" becomes French and artificial ;
even the " Excursion" of Wordsworth has, I
know not what, of childish and garrulous, the
moment they are forced into a comparison
with the solemn and stern majesty of the "
Night
Thoughts."
There is another merit in the "
Night
Thoughts ;" apart from its one great lesson, it
abounds in a thousand minor ones. Forget its
conception open it at random, and its reflec-
tions, its thoughts, its worldly wisdom alone
320 THE NEW PH^EDO.
may instruct the most worldly. It is
strange,
indeed, to find united in one page the sublimity
of Milton and the point of La Bruyere. I know
of no poem, except the Odyssey, which in this
excels the one before us. Of isolated beauties,
what rich redundance ! The similes and the
graces of expression with which the poem is
sown are full of all the lesser wealth of invention.
How beautiful, in mjce diction, is that address
to the flowers :
"
Queen lilies, and ye painted populace,
Who dwell in fields and lead ambrosial lives
1
So, too, how expressive the short simile,
-like our shadows,
Our wishes lengthen as our sun declines."
What but here I must pause abruptly, or I
should go on for ever ; for the poem is one which
strikes the superficial even more on opening a
single page at random than in reviewing the
whole in order. Only one word, then, upon the
Author himself. Ambition he certainly pos-
THE NEW PH.&DO. 321
sessed; and, in spite of all things, it continued
with him to the last. His love of ambition, per-
haps deepened, in his wiser moments, his con-
tempt of the world : for we are generally disap-
appointed before we despise. But the purer
source of his inspiration seems to have been
solemnly and fervently felt throughout life.
At college, he was distinguished for his suc-
cessful zeal in opposing the unbelief of Tindal.
.***&
In literature, some of his earliest offerings were
laid upon the altar of God. In the pulpit, where
he was usually a powerful and victorious
preacher, he is recorded once to have burst into
tears on seeing that he could not breathe his
own intense emotion into the hearts of a worldly
audience. Naturally vain, he renounced the
drama, in which he had gained so great a repu-
tation, when he entered the church ;
and though
called covetous, he gave when his play of " The
Brothers
"
was acted, not the real proceeds of
the play, (for it was not successful,) but what he
had imagined might be the proceeds (a thou-
sand pounds,) to the propagation of the Gospel
p 5
322 THE NEW PH^EDO.
abroad. A religious vein distinguished his pri-
vate conversation in health and manhood, no
less than his reflections in sorrow, and his
thoughts at the approach of death. May we
hope with him that the cravings of his heart
were the proof of an Hereafter
" That grief is but our grandeur in disguise,
And discontent is immortality."
While we admire his genius, let us benefit from
his wisdom ;
while we bow in homage before
the spirit that " stole the music from the spheres
to soothe their goddess;" while we behold
aghast the dread portrait he has drawn of
Death, noting from his grim and secret stand
the follies of a wild and revelling horde of bac-
chanals ;
while we shudder with him when he
conjures up the arch fiend from his lair ;
while
we stand awed and breathless beneath his ad-
juration to Night,
" Nature's great ancestor, Day's elder born,
And fated to survive the transient sun ;"
let us always come back at last to his serene and
holy consolation :
THE NEW PH.EDO. 323
"
Through many a field of moral and divine
The muse has strayed, and much of sorrow seen
In human ways, and much of false and vain,
Which none who travel this bad road can miss ;
O'er friends deceased full heartily she wept,
Of love divine the wonders she displayed;
Proved man immortal; showed the source ofjoy;
The grand tribunal raised; assigned the bounds
Of human grief. In few, to close the whole,
The moral muse has shadowed out a sketch
Of most our weakness needs believe, or do,
In this our land of
travai^md of hope,
For peace on earth, or prospect of the skies."
'
I have given the substance and, as far as I
could remember, the words of my friend's re-
marks the last conversation I ever held with
him on his favourite poet and although the
reader, attached to more worldly literature, may
not agree with L as to the high and settled
rank in which the poem thus criticised should
be placed I do not think he will be displeased
to have had his attention drawn for a few mo-
ments towards one, at least, among the highest,
but not the most popular, of his country's poets.
And as for the rest it is not perhaps amiss
324 THE NEW PHJEDO.
to refresh ever and anon our critical suscep-
tibilities to genius its defects and its beau-
ties, by recurring to those departed writers,
who being past the reach of our petty jea-
lousies may keep us as it were, in the custom
to praise without envy, and blame without in-
justice. And I must confess, moreover that it
appears to me a sort of duty we owe to the illus-
trious dead to turn at times from the busier
and more urgent pursuits of the world and to
water from a liberal urn the flowers or the
laurels which former gratitude planted around
their tombs.
325
CONVERSATION THE NINTH.
THE MEMORY BECOMES MORE ACUTE AS WE APPROACH DEATH
L 's OBSERVATIONS ON THE SAYING THAT '
LIFE IS A JEST*
THE VANITY OF AMBITION OUR ERRORS ARISE FROM OUR DESIRE
TO BE GREATER THAN WE ARE THOUGHTS ON SUPERSTITION
THE EARLY ASTROLOGERS PHILANTHROPY THE FEAR OF AS-
SISTING IN CHANGES OF WHICH THE GOOD TO A FUTURE GENERA-
TION MAY NOT COMPENSATE THE EVIL TO THE PRESENT CONTRAST
BETWEEN THE TRANQUIL LIVES OF MEN OF GENIUS AND THE RE-
VOLUTIONS THEIR WORKS EFFECT THE HOPE OF INTERCOURSE
WITH GREAT MINDS IN A FUTURE STATE THE SANCTITY OF THE
GRAVE THE PH.EDO OF PLATO THE PICTURE OF THE LAST
MOMENTS OF SOCRATES THE UNSATISFACTORY ARGUMENTS OF
THE HEATHEN FOR THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL REVEALED
RELIGION HAS LED MEN MORE LOGICALLY TO THE ARGUMENTS
FOR NATURAL THEOLOGY DISBELIEF INVOLVES US IN GREATER
DIFFICULTIES THAN FAITH OUR DOUBTS DO NOT DISHEARTEN
US IF WE ONCE BELIEVE IN GOD L 's LAST HOURS HIS
FAREWELL TO NATURE HIS DEATH.
THE day was calm and cloudless as, towards the
end of August, I rode leisurely to L 's
solitary
house ;
his strength had so materially declined
326 THE NEW PH^DO.
during the few days past, that I felt a gloomy
presentiment that I was about to see him for the
last time. He had always resolved, and I believe
this is not uncommon with persons in his dis-
ease, not to take to his bed until absolutely
compelled. His habitual amusements, few and
tranquil, were such that he could happily con-
tinue them to the last, and his powers of con-
versation, naturally so rich and various, were
not diminished by the approach of death ; per-
haps they were only rendered more impressive
by the lowered tones of the sweetest of human
voices, or the occasional cough that mingled his
theories on this world with a warning of the
next. I have observed that as in old people the
memory usually becomes the strongest of the
faculties,* so it also does with those whom mortal
sickness, equally with age, detaches from the
* That is, properly speaking, the memory so far as
it embraces early acquisitions or transactions old
people remember what happened fifty years ago, and
forget what happened yesterday. Their souls have
gone back to youth as the fitting port for the voyage
to Immortality.
THE NEW PH.JEDO. 327
lengthened prospects of the future. Forbidden
the objects from without, the mind turns within
for its occupation, and the thoughts, formerly
impelled towards hope, nourish themselves on
retrospection. Once I had not noted in L
that extraordinary strength of memory the
ready copiousness of its stores that he now
seemed to display. His imagination had been
more perceptible than his learning now, every
subject on which we conversed elicited hoards
of knowledge, always extensive and often mi-
nute of which perhaps he himself had been
previously unconscious. It is a beautiful sight,
even in the midst of its melancholy, the gradual
passing away of one of the better order of souls
the passions lulled as the mind awakens, and
a thousand graces of fortitude and gentleness
called forth by the infirmities of the declining
frame. The character assumes a more intel-
lectual, a more ethereal complexion; and our
love is made a loftier quality by our admiration,
while it is softened by our pity.
Full of these reflections I arrived at the house
328 THE NEW PH^EDO.
of my dying friend. "
My master, sir," said the
old servant,
" has passed but a poor night, he
seems in low spirits this morning, and I think
he will be glad to see you, for he has inquired
repeatedly what o'clock it was, as if time passed
heavily with him." The old man wiped his
eyes as he spoke, and I followed him into
L 's
study. The countenance of the invalid
was greatly changed even since I last saw him.
The eyes seemed more sunken, and the usual
flush of his complaint had subsided into a deep
but transparent paleness. I took his hand, and
he shook his head gently as I did so.
" The goal
is
nearly won !
"
said he faintly, but with a slight
smile. I did not answer, and he proceeded
after a short pause
" It has been said that
'
life is a jest ;' it is a very sorry one, and like
bad jests in general, its dullness is the greater
as we get to the close. At the end of a long
illness it is
only the dregs of a man's spirit that
are left him. People talk of the moral pangs
that attend the death-bed of a sinner as well
might they talk of the physical weakness of a
THE NEW PH^EDO. 329
dying wrestler. The mental and the physical
powers are too nearly allied for us fairly to
speculate on the fidelity of the one while the
other declines. Happy in my case that the
endurance if not the elasticity of my mind
lingers with me to the last ! I was looking
over some papers this morning which were full
of my early visions, aspirations of fame, and
longings after earthly immortality. I am for-
tunate that time is not allowed me to sacrifice
happiness to these phantoms. A man's heart
must be very frivolous if the possession of fame
rewards the labour to attain it. For the worst
of reputation is that it is not palpable or present
we do not feel, or see, or taste it.
People
praise us behind our backs, but we hear them
not ;
few before our faces, and who is not sus-
picious of the truth of such praise ? What does
come before us perpetually in our career of
honours is the blame, not praise the envy, not
esteem. We ask the disciple and we find the
persecutor."
"
Ay," said I,
" but after a little while the
330 THE NEW PHJEDO.
great man learns to despise the abuse which is
not acknowledged to be just."
" In proportion as he despises blame," an-
swered L ,
" he will despise praise if the
one give no pain, the other will give no pleasure ;
and thus the hunt after honours will be but a
life of toil without a reward, and entail the
apathy of obscurity without its content."
A. " But consider, there is the reward of our
own heart which none can take away our proud
self-esteem, and, if you will, our fond appeal to
the justice of an after-age."
L. " But our self-esteem our self-applause
may be equally, perhaps more securely, won in
obscurity than in fame ; and as to posterity, what
philosophical, what moderately wise man can
seriously find pleasure for the present in re-
flecting on the praises he can never hear ? No,
say what we will, you may be sure that ambition
is an error: its wear and tear of heart are
never recompensed it steals away the freshness
of life it deadens its vivid and social enjoy-
ments it shuts our soul to our own youth
THE NEW PH^DO. 331
and we are old ere we find that we have
made a fever and a labour of our raciest
years. There is, and we cannot deny it, a cer-
tain weary, stale, unprofitable flatness in all
things appertaining to life ;
and what is worse,
the more we endeavour to lift ourselves from the
beaten level, the keener is our disappointment.
It is thus that true philosophers have done
wisely when they have told us to cultivate our
reason rather than our feelings for reason re-
conciles us to the daily things of existence our
feelings teach us to yearn after the Far, the
Difficult, the Unseen,
'
Clothing the palpable and the familiar
With golden exhalations from the dawn.'
But 'the golden exhalations' vanish as noon
advances; our fancies are the opium of our
life, the rapture and the vision the languor
and the anguish. But what, when we come
deeply to consider of it what a singular fata-
lity is that which makes it unwise to culti-
vate our divinest emotions ! We bear within
332 THE NEW PH.EDO.
us the seeds of greatness ;
but suffer them to
spring up, and they overshadow both our sense
and our happiness ! Note the errors of mankind ;
how mysteriously have they arisen from the
desire to be higher than we are. As the banyan
tree soars aloft only to return to the mire
we would climb to the heaven, and find ourselves
once more in the dust. Thus, looking up to the
starred and solemn heavens, girt with the vast
solitudes of unpeopled Nature hearkening to
the live thunder,' or suffering the mighty
winds to fill their hearts with a thousand mys-
terious voices mankind in the early time felt
the inspiration of something above them :
they
bowed to the dark afflatus ; they nourished the
unearthly dream ;
and they produced what ?
SUPERSTITION ! The darkest and foulest of
moral Demons sprang from their desire to shape
forth a God, and their successors made earth a
Hell by their efforts to preserve the mysteries
and repeat the commands of Heaven !
" How beautiful, how high were those desires
in man's heart which lifted it
up to the old
THE NEW PILEDO. 333
Chaldsean falsehoods of Astrology. Who can read
at this day of those ancient seers, striving to win
from the loveliest and most glorious objects
given to our survey, the secrets of empires, the
prodigies of Time, the destinies of the Universe,
without a solemn and kindling awe, an admira-
tion at the vast conception even of so unwise a
dream ?. Who first thought of conning the great
page of Heaven? who first thought that in
those still, and cold, and melancholy orbs our
chronicles were writ? Whoever it was, his
must have been a daring and unearthly soul;
but the very loftiness of its faculties produced
ages of delusion, and priestcraft, and error to
the world. Leave for one moment the chain of
the petty KNOWN give wings to the mind
let the Aspiring loose and what may be the
result ? How rarely gain ! how rarely aught
but a splendid folly ! As the fireworks that
children send forth against a dark sky our am-
bition burns, and mounts, and illumes for one
moment the dim vault of the uncomprehended
space, but falls to the earth spoiled of its
334 THE NEW PH-SEDO.
lustre brilliant, but useless ascending, but
exploring not a toy to all, but a light to
none."
" There is one ambition," said I,
" which you
do not mean thus to characterise the ambition
of philanthropy the desire more
'
To raise the wretched than to rise ;'
and you, I know, who believe in human per-
fectibility, can appreciate at its proper value that
order of ambition."
" You kindly remind me," said L ,
" of
one of the greatest consolations with which a
man, who has any warmth or benevolence of
heart, can depart this world the persuasion
that he leaves his species gradually progressing
towards that full virtue and generalized happi-
ness which his noblest ambition could desire for
them. Night, according to the old Egyptian
creed, is the dark mother of all things; as ages
leave her, they approach the light. That which
the superficial dread, is in reality the Vivifier of
the World I mean the everlasting Spirit of
THE NEW PH^DO. 335
Change. And, figuring forth unconsciously to
themselves this truth, the Egyptians, we are
told by Porphyry, represented their demons as
floating upon the waters for ever restless and
evoking the great series of Mutabilities. Yet
who lightly cares to take upon himself the fear-
ful responsibility of shaking the throned Opi-
nions of his generation, knowing that centuries
may pass before the good that is worked shall
compensate for the evil done ? This fear, this
timidity of conscience it is, that makes us cowards
to the Present, and leaves the great souls that
should lead on Reform inert and sluggish, while
the smaller spirits, the journeymen of Time,
just creep up inch by inch to what Necessity
demands, leaving the world ages and ages be-
hind that far goal which the few, in heart, and
eye, and speculation, have already reached,"
A. One of the strange things that happen
daily is this men who the most stir the lives
of others lead themselves the most silent and
balanced life. It is curious to read how Kant,
who set the mind of Germany on fire with the
336 THE NEW PHJEDO.
dim light of mysticism, himself lived on from day
to day, the mere creature of his habits, and per-
forming somewhat of the operations of the horo-
loge, that in its calm regularity, leads the blind
million to portion out in new and wild dreams
the short span of existence. So with philoso-
phers, and poets geneally how wonderful the
contrast between the quiet of their existence and
the turbid effects they produce !
This, perhaps
secretly to ourselves, makes the great charm in
visiting the tranquil and still retreats from
whence the oracles of the world have issued
the hermitage of Ermenonville the fortress of
Wartenburg; the one where Rousseau fed his
immortal fancies the other whence burst, from
the fiery soul of Luther, the light that yet lives
along the world: what reflections must the
silence and the mouldering stone awaken, as we
remember the vivid and overflowing hearts of
the old inhabitants ! Plato and his Cave are,
to all ages, the type and prophecy of the Philo-
sopher and his Life.
L. Few, my friend, think of all the lofty and
THE NEW PH^DO. 337
divine hopes that the belief in immortality opens
to us. One of the purest of these is the ex-
pectation of a more entire intelligence of the
great gift of conversing with all who have lived
before us of questioning the past ages and un-
ravelling their dark wisdom. How much in
every man's heart dies away unuttered ! How
little of what the sage knows does the sage pro-
mulgate ! How many chords of the lyre within
the poet's heart, have been dumb to the world's
ear ! All this untold, uncommunicated, un-
dreamt-of store of wisdom and of harmony, it
may be the privilege of our immortality to learn.
The best part of genius, the world often knows
not the Plato buries much of his lore within
his Cave and this, the High Unknown, is our
heritage.
" With these thoughts," continued
L ,
"
you see how easy it is for the parting
soul to beautify and adorn Death ! With how
many garlands we can hang the tomb !
Nay, if
we begin betimes, we can learn to make the
prospect of the grave the most seductive of hu-
man visions by little and little we wean from
VOL. II. Q
338 THE NEW PH^DO.
its contemplation all that is gloomy and abhor-
rent by little and little we hive therein all the
most pleasing of our dreams. As the neglected
genius whispers to his muse,
*
Posterity shall
know thee, and thou shalt live when I am no
more,' we find in this hallowed and all-promis-
ing future, a recompence for every mortification,
for every disappointment in the present. It is
the belief of the Arabs, that to the earliest
places of human worship there clings a guardian
sanctity there the wild bird rests not, there
the wild beast may not wander; it is the blessed
spot on which the eye of God dwells, and which
man's best memories preserve. As with the
earliest place of worship, so is it with the latest
haven of repose as with the spot where our
first imperfect adoration was offered up, our first
glimpses of divinity indulged, so should it be
with that where our full knowledge of the Arch-
Cause begins, and we can pour forth a gratitude
no longer checked and darkened by the troubles
and cares of earth. Surely if any spot in the world
be sacred, it is that small green mound in which
THE NEW PHJEDO. 339
grief ceases, and from which, if the harmonies of
creation, if the voice within our hearts, if the
impulse which makes man so easy a believer in
revelation, if these mock and fool us not with
an everlasting lie, we spring up on the untiring
wings of a pangless and seraphic life those
whom we loved, around us ; the aspirings that
we nursed, fulfilled ; our nature, universal intel-
ligence ;
our atmosphere, eternal love !"
Sometime afterwards, observing a volume of
Plato on the table, our conversation fell upon
that divine philosopher, and on his dialogue of
the Phaedo in particular.
" Of all the Dialogues of Plato," said L ,
" the Pheedo has been perhaps the most read,
and may be considered the most interesting. It
is the most interesting partly from its accurate
account of the last hours of Socrates, and partly
from the absorbing curiosity which we entertain
to know the opinions of the wisest of the ancients
respecting the immortality of the soul. Perhaps
there is no part of our studies which bequeaths a
more delightful and enduring memory. It lives
Q 2
340 THE NEW PH^EDO.
within us like the recollection of some southern
landscape, in which the colouring of the heavens
forms the prominent beauty which we were
too intoxicated to examine in detail, but in
which every separate feature is confused and
blended into one dim and delicious whole.
Each of Plato's Dialogues has more or less of
the dramatic but the Phaedo is the most dra-
matic of all. It is a picture of extraordinary
sweetness and grandeur, in which the figures
are distinct and life-like. We see the crowd of
disciples, some Athenian, some foreigners, wait-
ing in the early morning of their master's last
day by the gates of the prison the ship of
Theseus *
having now returned its stern
crowned with flowers as in token at once of
sacrifice and festival. Within, while they wait,
the magistrates are freeing Socrates from his
bonds. There they stand, mournful but not des-
pondent exalted by the former teachings of
their guide influenced by
*
that wonderful
passion'
*
not of pity,' which Plato has so
* No criminal could be executed until its return.
THE NEW PH^EDO. 341
beautifully described in which grief at his
death is mingled with all the sweet and musical
consolings inspired by his past converse. The
gaoler appears the door opens they are with
Socrates. The manner in which, after dis-
missing the loud sorrow of Xantippe, the con-
versation glides into its glorious topics, is sin-
gularly natural and simple. We see Socrates
'
sitting upright on his bed,' and morah'zing
gaily on the reh'ef from his fetters till one
thought begetting another, he comes to his cele-
brated explanation of the causes why one '
who
has rightly studied philosophy should be bold
when about to die.' The little incidental and
graphic touches with which, here and there,
Plato breaks the dialogue, render it
peculiarly
living and effective; and the individuality of
Socrates, in that mixture of easy gaiety and
lofty thought, which divides his listeners be-
tween weeping and laughter that patient con-
fidence with which he is wont to hear objections
and the art with which he draws on the
speaker to answer himself, make the character
342 THE NEW PH^DO.
as distinctly and appropriately marked a character
as in one of Shakspeare's plays. The utter want
of any rhetorical attempt to move an unworthy
compassion the plain and homely simplicity
with which the whole tragedy is told from the
time, when stroking the limb which the fetters
had galled, he observes smilingly how the painful
had been supplied by pleasurable sensations or
his caressingly touching the long hair of the
supposed narrator, who sate on a low stool be-
side him to the close, when, returned from
the bath after embracing for the last time
his children, he sits down again amongst his
friends, and *
did not speak much afterwards :'
'
and it was now near the setting of the
sun;'* the weeping servant of the magistrate,
coming to bid him farewell the request of
* " How watched his better sons the farewell ray,
That closed their murdered sage's latest day !
Not yet not yet Sol pauses on the hill,
The precious hour of parting lingers still," &c.
It is a pity that Byron injured the whole of this
beautiful allusion by the epithet in the following line
THE NEW PH^EDO. 343
Socrates to bid them bring the poison the
answer of Crito, 'Nay, the sun yet lingers on the
mountains' the undaunted gaze of Socrates on
the countenance of his executioner (so untrans-
lateably expressed in the word ravp^ov )
as he
took the fatal draught; the sudden burst of
sorrow from his disciples, which a few words
from the dying man causes them to blush for ;
the melancholy walk to and fro that narrow cell,
for the better operation of the poison the homely
expression, and 'when he felt his limbs grow
heavy, he laid himself down' to die; the
portrait of the executioner pressing his foot
strongly and asking if he felt the pressure, of
which, alas ! he was unconscious ; the gradual
progress of the numbing potion from the feet
to the nobler parts, as Socrates himself points
" But sad his light to agonizing eyes."
There was no agony in the tears that his pupils wept
for Socrates. " The sadness was/' as Plato says, "not
wholly unpleasing." The death of a man thoroughly
great and good does not allow the terror and the pros-
tration of agony.
344 THE NEW PH^DO.
out to those around his bed, how the limbs
stiffen and grow cold adding, in that phrase
of unconscious pathos,
'
When it reaches my
heart I shall leave you;' that last and mystic
command (which the later Platonists have en-
deavoured to explain as an emblematic desire
of purification and healing) to sacrifice to JEa-
culapius ;
the inquiry of Crito,
'
Hast thou no
other bidding?' the quiet sorrow of what fol-
lows '
To this he made no reply, but after he
had been a short time still, he moved, and the
man covered him, and his eyes grew fixed.
And Crito perceived it, and closed his eyes and
mouth. This, Echecrates, was the end of our
companion ;' the whole of this picture is, I say,
so great a masterpiece of truth and tenderness
the presentation of so sublime a spectacle, that
in itself it would render the Phaedo one of the
most valuable of the possessions we derive from
the Golden Past. But how much more thrilling
and divine it becomes, when this, the last scene
of such a life, is coloured with all the hopes
and auguries of the departing soul when the
THE NEW PH^EDO. 345
cessation from this world is smoothed away by
august conjectures on the world to be and the
Sage lavishes his wisdom on the glorious aphorism
that to die is to be immortal !
We do not wish to disturb the thoughts which
this Dialogue bequeaths us, by criticising the
details we would rather number its recollec-
tion amongst our feelings than submit it
coldly
to the test of our reasonings. Alas ! if we do
the latter, the effect begins gloomily to fade
away. For I must own that, amidst all the poetry
of the allusions amidst all the ingenuity of
the arguments I feel, when I fix the mind
rather than the imagination or the heart upon
the conclusions of the Great Heathen, that they
fail to convince. Almost every argument he uses
for the immortality of man is equally applicable
to the humblest of the brutes the least visible of
the animalculae in a drop of water. Such, for
instance, as this, which is the least obscure, per-
haps, of all his propositions, and which, never-
theless, is almost a scholastic frivolity. 'A
contrary cannot receive a contrary, nor the
Q5
346 THE NEW PH^DO.
contrary of that which it introduces. What is
that which, when in the body, renders the body
living? The soul. Soul therefore introduces
life to that which it occupies. What is the
contrary of life ? Death. But the soul cannot
receive the contrary of what it introduces it
cannot therefore receive death. But what do we
call that which does not receive death ? Immor-
tal.' Such is one among the most intelligible
arguments of the wisest of the heathens. Can
we wonder when we are told that Socrates and
Plato made but few converts in Athens to the
immortality of the soul? Adopt the argument,
and the fly at the window, the spider which is now
watching it nay, the very tree waving before
us green and living, have equally with myself,
that which introduces life, and cannot receive
the contrary to that which it introduces its
soul is therefore immortal as my own.
But a graver objection to the whole reasoning
is, that the question is begged, when Socrates
affirms that that which gives life is the souL This
is the exact point at issue between the material-
THE NEW PHYEDO. 347
ists and ourselves. What can be so bewildering
as the more subtle refinements about '
harmony,'
and parity,' and the previous existence of the
soul on which last however the Sage's argu-
ments are less vague than they are with respect
to its existence hereafter, and which yet, if true,
would destroy the whole blessing of Immortality
for if the soul has existed before it entered
our body and if our seeming acquisitions are
rather dim reminiscences of what we knew
before if, as the intoxicating poetry of the
Platonists has supposed, the delight that follows
upon our discovery of a truth is nothing more
than the recognition the re-finding as it were
something formerly familiar and allied to us
where is that perfect identity which can alone
render a new existence a blessing that we our-
selves can feel ? What comfort is it to me to
think that my soul may live again under other
shapes but / my sentient faculty my me-
mory and my perception, not feel the renewed
existence ? This would not be a continuance of
myself but a lapse into another as distinct from
myself as Socrates from Newton. No there
348 THE NEW PH^EDO.
is nothing in the Phaedo that could convince a
modern unbeliever; but there is every thing
that can charm and delight one who already be-
lieves who desires only to embellish his belief
with beautiful thoughts,* and who from the
* One source of great interest in the Phaedo, as in-
deed in all the writings of Plato, is to trace the germs
of modern articles of philosophic or Christian faith in
the theories it creates. For instance, Reid's assertion
of the inherent disposition to Truth or " instinctive
prescience ofhuman actions which makes us rely on the
testimony of our fellow creatures
"
has been preceded
by the Phsedo though the remark is intended to apply
to the pre-existence of the soul :* and the fantastic no-
tion that learning is but reminiscence " The truth of
this," says Cebes,
" is manifested by a most beautiful
argument. Men, when interrogated properly, will
speak of every thing just as it is could they do this
unless science and right reason resided (or were inhe-
rent) in them ?" In another part of Phaedo you may
trace the outline of the Catholic purgatory though an
earlier origin for that belief is perhaps to be found- in
the mysteries borrowed from Egypt.
* A doctrine as old, at least, as Pherecydes, who,
first of the Greeks, taught that the soul pre-existed
from eternity Socrates taught little or nothing that
was absolutely new. Alas ! who has ?
THE NEW PH^DO. 349
Pisgah of his conviction looks down on those
who have strayed, erring but with faith, over
the glimmering and uncertain wastes of the
past Desert. All our later upholders of Na-
tural Religion have, even to the sceptics in
Revealed, been more successful in their reason-
ings than this lofty Ancient. It has been among
the peculiar blessings of Revealed Religion
that it has led men more logically and deliber-
ately to the arguments for Natural Theology.
Its very enemies have, in dissenting from its
principles, confirmed its most grand conclu-
sions. It made the eternity of the soul a grave
and settled doctrine which scholars could
not bandy about according to their fantasies.
It attracted the solemn attention of sages to all
the arguments for and against it. And out of a
thousand disputes have proceeded the reason-
ings upon which it has found its basis. When
Christ said,
'
I AM THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD,' he
uttered one of the sublimest of his prophecies.
His faith has called forth the countless lumi-
naries of Truth ;
not only the Reformers, who
350 THE NEW PH^EDO.
in examining Religion established Liberty, but
the Philosophers who, in advancing to the
realm of Doubt have extended the empire of
Thought they penetrated lands which we have
since converted they discovered the shadowy
regions of Uncertainty since colonized with
Truths : and Darkness has produced our guides
and constellations, as Night awakes the Stars.
Instead of checking Philosophy, Faith has made
it yet more searching and severe. If speculations
indeed remain which our understanding cannot
solve if the origin of evil yet perplex and sadden
us if we cannot guess how the soul enters nor
why departs nor know the secret of {
the har-
mony of the lyre ;'
* we can still fall back upon
the resting-places we have gained, and not suffer
our ignorance to be the judge because it fails
to become the witness. Satisfied that if Faith
has its enigmas, Disbelief is
yet more obscure,
we learn the Philosophy of Hope, and, when
the soul shrinks back, bewildered and appalled,
from the wilderness of space around it, and the
*
The beautiful simile in the Phaedo.
THE NEW PHjEDO. 351
dazzle of the sun, we may trust yet that He
who gifted it with its wings, may hereafter in-
crease its strength, and guide its wanderings,
and enable it to face the intolerable lustre which
now blinds its gaze. Once convinced that there
is a God, and we annihilate Despair ! we may
still have our doubtings and our desires our
sorrows and our cares but it is enough to know
that we are destined to survive them. And when
we are weary of our vain wanderings, we re-
member that Thought can find its home with
God and that it is on a Father's bosom that
we hush ourselves to rest !"
In discourses of this sort, the day wore to its
close, and when will the remembrance of that
day ever depart from me ! It seemed to me, as
we sat by the window, the sun sinking through
the still summer air, the leaves at rest, but how
full of life, the motes dancing in the beam,
the birds with their hymns of love, and every
now and then the chirp of the grasshopper
" That evening reveller who makes
His life an infancy and sings his fill ;"
352 THE NEW PHJEDO.
it seemed to me, as we so sat, and, looking upon
the hushed face of our mother Nature, I listened
to the accents of that wild and impassioned
wisdom, so full of high conjecture and burning
vision, and golden illustration, which belonged
to him for whom life was closing, as if I could
have fancied that the world was younger by
some two thousand years, and that it was not
one of this trite and dull age's children that was
taking his farewell of life, but rather one of
the enthusiasts of that day when knowledge
was both a passion and a dream, when the mys-
teries of the universe and the life-to-come were
thought the most alluring of human themes, and
when in the beautiful climates of the West, the
sons of wisdom crept out to die, among the trees
they had peopled with divinities, and yielded their
own spirits to the Great Soul of which they were
a part, and which their mysterious faith had
made the Life and Ruler of the world.* For I
*
But Phornutus, by Jupiter, understands the Soul
of the world, he writing thus concerning him, tS<nrfp
tie yets, &c. " As we ourselves are governed by a soul,
THE NEW PHJEDO. 353
think, nay, I feel assured, that those, the high
sons of the past philosophy, have neither in their
conduct nor their manner of thought been fully
appreciated by the posterity that treads lightly
over the dust of what once was life.
They
wandered wildly, but their wanderings were
'
not of the earth, earthy;' and they possessed
more of that power, and beauty, and majesty,
and aspiration, which are the soul; they had
less of the body and more of the spirit, than
many of the mitred Priests who have railed
against the earthliness ot Paganism, from the
cherubic paradise of Tithes.
And now the sun sank, and
'
Maro's shepherd star
Watched the soft silence with a loving eye/
*
" Do you remember," said L ,
" a story
in one of the old English Chronicles, how a
so hath the world, in like manner, a soul that con-
taineth it, and this is called Zeus, being the cause of
life to all things that live," &c. Cudworth, vol. i.
p. 529.
*
Milton, a poem, by the Author.
354 THE NEW PJLffiDO.
bird flew into the King's chamber, when the
King was conversing with some sage upon the
nature of the soul ? '
Behold !' said the sage, it
is like that bird while within this room ; you can
note its flight and motions, but you know not
whence it came ere it entered, nor can ye guess
whither it shall fly when it leaves this momen-
tary lodging.'
"
It chanced, somewhat curiously, that, as
L spoke, a small bird I know not of what
name or tribe suddenly alighted on the turf be-
neath the window, and though all its fellow-song-
sters were already hushed, poured forth a long,
loud, sweet lay, that came, in the general silence,
almost startlingly on the ear. " Poor bird !" said
L , musingly,
" it is
thy farewell to one who,
perhaps, has given thee food for thy little ones,
and whose hand is well-nigh closed. And," con-
tinued he, after a short pause and lifting up
his eyes, he gazed long and earnestly around
the scene, now bathed in all the darkening but
tender hues of the summer night
" and shall I
be ungrateful to that Power which has, since
THE NEW PHJEDO. 355
my boyhood, fed my thoughts the wanderers
of the heart have / no farewell for that Nature
whom, perhaps, I behold for the last time ? O,
unseen Spirit of Creation ! that watchest over
all things the desert and the rock, no less than
the fresh water bounding on like a hunter on
his path, when his heart is in his step or the
valley girded by the glad woods, and living with
the yellow corn to me, thus sad and baffled,
thou hast ministered as to the happiest of thy
children ! thou hast whispered tidings of un-
utterable comfort to a heart which the World
sated while it deceived ! Thou gavest me a
music, sweeter than that of palaces, in the
mountain wind ! thou badest the flowers and
the common grass smile up to me as children to
the face of their father ! Like the eye of a
woman first loved to the soul of the poet, was
the face of every soft and never-silent star to
me ! Nature !
my mother Nature ! as the in-
fant in the harsh slavery of schools pines for
home, I yearned within the dark walls of cities,
and amidst the hum of unfamiliar men, for thy
356 THE NEW PHJEDO.
sweet embrace and thy bosom whereon to lay
.
my head, and weep wild tears at my will ! I
thank thee, Nature, that thou art round and
with me to the last ! Not in the close tho-
roughfares of toil and traffic not tethered to a
couch, whence my eyes asking for thee, would
behold only those dim walls which are the dying
man's worst dungeon, or catch through the lat-
tice the busy signs and crowded tenements of
the unsympathizing herd not thus shall my
last sigh be rendered up to the Great Fount of
Life ! To the mystic moment when the breath
flutters and departs, thy presence will be round
me, and the sentiment of thy freedom bathe my
soul like a fresh air ! Farewell thou, and thy
thousand ministrants and children !
every leaf
that quivers on the bough every dew-drop that
sparkles from the grass every breeze that ani-
mates the veins of earth, are as friends, that I
would rather feel around my death-bed than the
hollow hearts and ungenial sympathies of my
kind ! O Nature, farewell ! if we are re-united,
can I feel in a future being thy power, and thy
THE NEW PHvEDO. 357
beauty, and thy presence, more intensely than I
have done in this ?"
# * * ** *
*****
* * * * *
When I was about to take leave of L
for the night, he asked me, in a meaning voice,
to stay with him a little longer :
" The fact is,"
said he,
" that Dr. implies a doubt whether
I shall see another day ;
so be with me, at least
till I fall asleep. I mean," added he, smiling,
" not in the metaphoric, but the literal sense of
the word."
Accordingly, when he retired for the night, I
sat by his bedside, and we continued to converse,
for he wished it, though but by fits and starts :
he gave me several instructions as to his burial,
and as to various little bequests, not mentioned
in his formal testament. While indifferent to
the companionship of men, he had never been
ungrateful for their affection : the least kindness
affected him sensibly, and he was willing in
death to show that he had not forgotten it In-
358 THE NEW PH^EDO.
deed I have observed, that the more we live out
of the world, the more little courtesies, such as
in the crowd are unheeded, are magnified into
favours true that the same process of exagger-
ation occurs in respect to petty affronts or in-
considerate slights. The Heart never attains
the independence, of the Mind.
Before the window, which looked out into the
garden, the dark tops of the trees waved mourn-
fully to and fro ;
and above, in deep relief, was
the sky, utterly cloudless, and all alive with
stars. "
My eyes are very heavy," said L ;
" close the curtains round my head." I did
so, and crept softly into the next room, where
the Nurse sate dozing in a large chair by the fire-
side.
" Does he sleep, sir ?" said she, waking up
as I approached.
" He will shortly," said I : "he seems inclin-
ed to it."
" Poor gentleman ! he will soon be out of his
sufferings," said the Nurse ;
and she herewith
took a huge pinch of snuiF.
THE NEW PHffiDO. 359
Yes ! this is the world's notion. With what
wondrous ingenuity they shift off the pain of
regret ! A friend, a brother, a husband, nay a
son dies they thank God he is out of his afflic-
tions ! In one sense they are right. They make
the best of their own short summer, and do not
ask the cloud to stay longer ^than sufficient to
call up the flowers or refresh the soil. Yet, this is
a narrow view of the subject of death. A bright
genius disappears a warm heart is stilled, and
we think only (when we console ourselves) of
the escape of the individual from his bed of
pain. But ought we not to think of the loss that
the world that our whole race sustains ? I be-
lieve so. How many thoughts which might
have preached conviction to the universe will be
stricken for ever dumb by the early death of one
being ! What services to earth might the high
purity, the deep knowledge, the ardent spirit of
L have effected ! But this we never think
of.
" Poor gentleman !"
quoth the Nurse,
" he
will soon be out of his sufferings !" and there-
with she took a huge pinch of snuff. My God !
what self-comforters we are !
360 THE NEW PH^DO.
" He is a good gentleman !" said she again,
turning round to the fire ;
" and so fond of
dumb animals. Caesar, sir, the dog Caesar, is
at the foot of the bed, as usual ? ay, I warrant
he lies there, sir, as still as a mouse. I am sure
them creturs know when we are sick or not
Ah !
sir, how the dog will take on, when '
and the Nurse, breaking off, applied again to her
snuff-box.
I did not feel at home in this conversation,
and I soon stole again into the next room. What
a stillness there was in it ! It seemed palpable.
Stillness is not silent, at least to the heart. I
walked straight up to the bed. L 's hand was
flung over the pillow. I felt it
gently ;
the pulse
was almost imperceptibly low but it fluttered
nevertheless. I was about to drop the hand,
when L half turned round, and that hand
gently pressed my own. I heard a slight sigh,
and fancying he was awake, I bent over to look
into his face. The h'ght from the window came
full upon it, and I was struck appalled, by the
exceeding beauty of the smile that rested on
THE NEW PH.EDO. 361
the lips.
But those lips had fallen from each
other ! I pressed the pulse again. No the
fluttering was gone. I started away with an un-
utterable tightness at my heart. I moved to
the door, and called (but under my breath) to
the Nurse. She came quickly ; yet I thought
an hour had passed before she crossed the
threshold. We went once more to the bed
and there, by his master's face, sat the poor
dog. He had crept softly up from his usual
resting-place ; and when he saw us draw aside
the curtain, he looked at us so wistfully, that
no, I cannot go on ! There is a religion in a
good man's death that we cannot babble to all
the world !
THE END.
LONDON:
IbOTSON AND PALMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET, STRAND.
MESSRS. SAUNDERS AND OTLEY
HAVE JUST PUBLISHED THE FOLLOWING NEW BOOKP.
I.
THE flotf. MRS. NORTON'S NEW WORK.
In 3 vols., post 8vo.
THE WIFE AND WOMAN'S REWARD.
By the HON. MRS. NORTON.
II.
NEW WORK BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE COLLEGIANS."
In 3 vols. post 8vo.
MY NEIGHBOURHOOD,
By tbe Author of " THE COLLEGIANS."
III.
THE COUNTESS OF BI.ESSINGTON'S NEW WOKK.
In 3 vols. post 8vo.
THE TWO FRIENDS.
By the COUNTESS OF BLESSINGTON.
" The dignity and sweetness of the female character were
never pourtrayed with more force and truth than in this cleve'r
production." Times.
IV.
NEW WORK, EDITED BY TTIE AUTHOR OF " GRANBY."
Second Edition. In 3 vols. post 8 vo.
ANNE G R E Y A NOVEL.
Edited by the Author of" GRANBY."
" This work must become a general favourite ;
it is full of
feminine loveliness, and that quickness of observation, which is
the peculiar gift of the sex." Court Journal.
V.
3 vols. post8vo.
SELWYN IN SEARCH OF A DAUGHTER.
By the Author of " Tales of the Moors."
" A work full of pathos, and written with an accurate know-
ledge of human nature." New Monthly Magazine.
VI.
Miss PAHDOE'S NEW WORK.
3 vols. post 8vo.
THE MARDENS AND THE DAVENTRYS.
By MISS PARDOE, Author of " Traits of Portugal."
-
" The descriptions are striking and itnpressive, the characters
are boldly, some of them beautifully drlfwn, and the incidents are
varied and affecting." Morning Post.
Works published by Messrs. Saunders and Otley.
VII.
In 2 vols. post 8vo.
OCTAVIA ELPHINSTONE.
A MANX STORY.
By Miss ANNE TALLANT.
" This is a work of no common order." Metropolitan.
" We have not for a long time met with so pleasing a story."
Literary Gazette.
VIII.
Second Edition. In 2 vols. post 3vo.
TWO OLD MEN'S TALES.
THE DEFORMED AND THE ADMIRAL'S DAUGHTER.
"
Upon us the impression of these Tales was such as we re-
collect to have received from the novels which we stole and
secretly read in the days of our boyhood ;
we found them inter-
esting and affecting to a degree which made us begin again to
think that the serious occupations of life were weary, stale, flat,
and unprofitable. With that power by which a writer can reach
the heart of the reader, it is plain that this authoress is eminently
endowed." Quarterly Review.
IX.
Third Edition. 3 vols. post 8vo.
JACOB FAITHFUL.
By the Author of " PETER SIMPLE."
" We thought
'
Peter Simple' admirable, but we prefer Jacob
Faithful." John Bull.
"
Captain Marryat seems to us to stand alone amongst the
writers of his century, in the power of presenting life as it is."
Spectator.
X.
NEW WORK, BY THE O'HARA FAMILY.
In 3 vols. post 8vo.
THE MAYOR OF WIND-GAP.
By the Author of the " O'HARA TALES."
" These Tales are very remarkable ; they contain all the beau-
ties of the Author's former works ; awakening intense interest,
which is not suffered to flag a single instant; they must be read
by everybody." Court Magazine.
XI.
New and revised Edition, in 3 vols. post 8vo.
PETER SIMPLE.
By the Author of " THE NAVAL OFFICER,"
" KING'S OWN," &c.
" This is an admirable work, and worthy of the noble service it
is written to illustrate." Spectator.
