{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1994__gomes___theosophy_in_nineteenth_century_bibliography.pdf","mytitle":"Theosophy In Nineteenth Century Bibliography","mylang":"de"}
THEOSOPHY IN THE
NINETEENTH
CENTURY
An Annotated
Bibliography
M ichael G om es
GARLAND PUBLISHING, Inc.
New York & London /1994
Copyright © 1994 by Michael Gomes
All rights reserved
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Gomes, Michael, 1951-
Theosophy in the nineteenth century : an annotated
bibliography by Michael Gomes.
p. cm. — (Religious Information Systems ;
vol. 15) (Garland reference library of social science ;
vol. 532)
ISBN 0-8240-8094-7 (alk. paper)
1. Theosophy—History—19th century—Sources—
Bibliography. 2. Blavatsky, H. P. (Helena Petrovna),
1831-1891—Bibliography. I. Title. II. Title:
Theosophy in the 19th century. III. Series: Religious
Information Systems ; v. 15. IV. Series: Garland
reference library of social science : v. 532.
Z6878.T4G65 1994
[BP530]
016.299'934'09034—dc20 93-36932
CIP
Printed on acid-free, 250-year-life paper
Manufactured in the United States of America
CONTENTS
Chapter 1: Historical Introduction 3
Chapter 2: Histories and Biographies 19
A. By Theosophists 23
B. By Non-Theosophists 92
Chapter 3: Background Works 143
A. Major Works Cited in Isis Unveiled 150
B. Major Works Cited in The Secret Doctrine 159
C. Nineteenth Century Occult Works 168
Chapter 4: Works of H.P. Blavatsky 179
Chapter 5: Works about H.P. Blavatsky 197
Chapter 6: The Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 363
A. The Mahatma Letters 368
B. Works of A.P. Sinnett 369
C. Works about the Mahatmas,
Their Letters, and A.P. Sinnett 376
Chapter 7: Other Nineteenth CenturyWorks by Theosophists 425
Chapter 8: Critical Issues 489
A. The Coulombs, Richard Hodgson
and the S.P.R. Report
B. Solovyov's Modern Priestess of Isis
C. Wm. E. Coleman and Plagiarism
D. Elliott Coues and the N. Y.Sun Libel Case
E. The Judge Case
Chapter 9: Theosophical Periodicals
Author Index
Theosophy in the
Nineteenth
Century
CHAPTER 1
Historical Introduction
Commemorating the birth centenary of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky
in 1931, the Blavatsky Association of London (a group formed to
encourage study of her writings) issued a bibliography. Covering the
various editions of her works, the booklet also listed some 325 books,
pamphlets and articles about Mme. Blavatsky. It remains to date not only
the major bibliography about H.P. Blavatsky but of Theosophy. If the
present attempt succeeds further it owes a great deal to Dr. Robert
Ellwood Jr., Bashford Professor of Oriental Studies in the School of
Religion at the University of Southern California. It was Dr. Ellwood
who suggested the project to me and outlined the chapters much as they
now stand.
A concerted effort collecting the material found throughout the pages
of the present volume began twenty-five years ago when I entered the
library of the Toronto Theosophical Society looking for a copy of H.S.
Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, then out of print. I soon discovered that this
branch of the Theosophical Society was one of the oldest surviving in
North America, its charter having been signed by Mme. Blavatsky the
year she died, 1891. The library’s shelves were crammed with an
assortment of Theosophical authors then unknown to me, along with
numerous copies of the Bhagavad-gita and other Indian scriptures, books
on Hermetica and mythology. Large glass-covered cupboards held
reference works ranging from folios of Thomas Taylor’s 1804 translation
of Plato to red and black printed Egyptian masonic rituals. But what
fascinated me were two slim volumes by an author I had not seen before
—Beatrice Hastings. Like myself Mrs. Hastings was not a member of the
3
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Theosophical Society but a writer who felt that the case for Mme.
Blavatsky commended itself to further research. Mrs. Hastings had
examined the events in Blavatsky’s life against the allegations about her
and noted certain discrepancies. She planned a number of studies
outlining her findings but this was cut short by her death in 1943.
Trying to learn more about Beatrice Hastings’ work I found that her
files were sent from England to A.E.S. Smythe in Canada after the War.
Smythe, a veteran newspaper editor, had been General Secretary of the
Canadian Section of the Theosophical Society from its inception in 1919
until a year before his death in 1947. His library went to McMaster
University in Hamilton, Ontario, and so began the first of many journeys
by myself to institutions in search of Theosophical material. Although I
saw Smythe’s books, Mrs. Hastings’ papers were not there. Still hoping
that her files had survived, I began a wide ranging correspondence with
a number of Theosophists who had written on the life of Mme.
Blavatsky. Many were too old to help beyond sending letters in a
wavering scrawl.
Persistence was eventually rewarded by the location of Mrs.
Hastings’ material at a private collection in British Columbia known as
the H.P.B. Library. The Library had been built up around the books left
by Alice Leighton Cleather, a personal pupil of Blavatsky’s, and it had
gone from Victoria to Vancouver to the Okanagan Valley in the interior
of B.C. Springtime in the Rockies can be one of the most picturesque
sights. The custodian of the Library was a retired country gentleman who
served me tea on the lawn of his spacious grounds daily at three. A haze
hung over the hills in the distance and hedges of lilac and wild rose
bloomed in profusion, but I was more interested in being indoors than
partaking of the scenery. Tibetan tankas sent by Mrs. Cleather from
Daijeeling hung from the walls. In her seventies she had gone from India
to Peking to meet the Panchen Lama, who had left Tibet, and received
an invitation to join him at his lamasery near Shigatze, where Mrs.
Cleather believed her teacher Mme. Blavatsky had studied. The sudden
death of the Panchen Lama in 1937 put an end to her plans and she
returned to Daijeeling to die.
The Hastings Collection consisted of books and pamphlets relating
to the history of the Theosophical movement and the life of Blavatsky, all
heavily annotated by Mrs. Hastings. When she could not get originals of
some early pamphlets she had copies typed. Included was her
correspondence with the Theosophists of the 1930s as well as her notes.
During the three subsequent visits I made over the years to the H.P.B.
Historical Introduction 5
Library, I was able to go through all of Mrs. Hastings’ books and
pamphlets, as well as discover material belonging to William Kingsland,
another pupil of Blavatsky’s, and books from the library of the Blavatsky
Association which had been dissolved in the 1940s.
My work in New York City since the early seventies allowed me to
take advantage of the resources offered by the area. The Research
Division of the New York Public Library houses one of the best public
collections on Theosophy. This may have been due to C.H.A.
Bjerregaard, an early Theosophist who was librarian at the Astor Library
before it was merged with the Lenox Library to form the Research
Division. While the beaux-arts building at West 42nd Street and Fifth
Avenue contains much that is useful, part of the collection relating to
Theosophy, especially journals and pamphlets, has been moved to the
Annex on West 43rd Street. For anyone having the time and patience, the
scrapbooks of Saram Ellison in the Magic Collection at the Library of the
Performing Arts at Lincoln Center are worth perusing.
As with my previous books, Butler Library at Columbia University
has been my base of research. While not having an extensive selection on
Theosophy, it is distinguished in background material of the period,
especially 19th century journals and newspapers. It would not be out of
place to cite the efforts of the staff at Interlibrary Loan there, who
obtained many scarce items for me. Other Columbia libraries, such as the
Avery Library of Fine Arts, the East Asian Library, the Library at the
School of International Affairs, and even the Science Library, were able
to supply some unusual things. The nearby library at Union Theological
Seminary was most useful, especially for missionary journals. Mention
should also be made of the Eileen J. Garrett Library at the
Parapsychology Foundation and the library of the American Society for
Psychical Research in New York.
The university library having the largest collection of 19th century
Theosophical literature is the Andover-Harvard Theological Library at the
Harvard Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The books on
Theosophy came from members of the former Theosophical Society in
America, and I found editions there that were not in the National Union
Catalogue or anywhere else. Its Department of Manuscripts has a number
of important letters from Mme. Blavatsky. The catalogue at the Widener
Library at Harvard is worth going through if one has the time; stacks are
not open to visiting researchers and I must thank the staff for making an
exception in my case. The Reference Division of the Boston Public
Library deserves a visit, and the nearby Boston Athenaeum has a
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
complete set of the Spiritual Scientist, a Boston Spiritualist weekly that
chronicled the efforts of Blavatsky and Olcott before the founding of the
Theosophical Society in 1875.
The Department of Manuscripts at Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York, has the papers of Hiram Corson, a former Professor of Rhetoric
and English Literature whom Blavatsky visited in 1875. The letters of
Prof, and Mrs. Corson to their son Eugene give a graphic depiction of
their guest. Mme. Blavatsky’s letters to the Corsons are at the H.P.B.
Library. The Seybert Collection at the University of Pennsylvania Library
holds a large selection of early Spiritualist literature, while the Ferdinand
J. Dreer Collection at the State Historical Society of Pennsylvania
includes letters from Olcott and Blavatsky from the 1870s.
The Archives and Library of the Theosophical Society,
headquartered at Pasadena, California, has the most extensive amount of
material dealing with Theosophy in America. An ongoing attempt has
been made to collect works relating to Blavatsky and the Theosophical
movement. The reference library has numerous editions of 19th century
Theosophical authors. The archives of the Society has preserved letters
from Theosophists, including those of Blavatsky to W.Q. Judge, Minute
Books, scrapbooks, and photographs. The Los Angeles Public Library
before it burnt down provided some obscure items.
The Olcott Library at the headquarters of the American Section of
the Theosophical Society at Wheaton, Illinois, represents the literature of
that branch of the Theosophical movement with headquarters at Adyar,
Madras, India. While most of its books deal with the 20th century aspect
of Theosophy, the Olcott Library has a good selection of Theosophical
magazines. It houses the library of Mary K. Neff, an American member
who catalogued the archives at Adyar during the late 1920s, and the Boris
de Zirkoff Collection made up of the books and papers belonging to the
compiler of the H.P. Blavatsky Collected Writings series (hereafter
B:CW). The Department of Special Collections at the University of
Chicago has a large correspondence on Theosophical matters in the Helen
I. Dennis Collection, but the time period covered is the early 20th
century.
Having come this far, the selection offered by the former British
Museum Reading Room in London duplicates much of what is already
available in America. The Department of Manuscripts there is famous to
Theosophists for the letters from the Mahatmas to A.P. Sinnett. The
nearby collections of the Harry Price Library at Senate House of the
Historical Introduction 7
University of London and of the Warburg Institute are worth seeing if
one has larger area interests, and I must thank Leslie Price, then editor
of the journal Theosophical History (now edited by Dr. James A.
Santucci, Dept, of Religious Studies, California State University,
Fullerton, CA 92634-9480, U.S.A.), for dragging me there and also
providing my introduction for the library of the Society for Psychical
Research and the library of the College of Psychic Studies, formerly the
London Spiritualist Alliance started by W. Stainton Moses in 1882.
The reference library of the Theosophical Society in England at 50
Gloucester Place, London, has some books that belonged to H.P.
Blavatsky and these have been noted in Chapter 3. There is also an
extensive selection of bound pamphlets, some quite scarce. The Mahatma
Letters Trust Library also in London is a private collection which has
preserved books belonging to A.P. Sinnett and material gathered while
putting together the various editions of The Mahatma Letters to A.P.
Sinnett. The journey to the Newspaper Division of the British Library at
Colindale is tedious but rewarding if one knows what one is looking for,
the same can be said of the India Office Library. While in England I
travelled to Worthing in Sussex to meet the executrix of Beatrice Hastings
with whom I had corresponded over the years and who had sent me the
remaining possessions of Mrs. Hastings. We talked about the last years
of that remarkable woman and I saw the sketches drawn of her by the
artist Modigliani when she lived with him in Paris. Walking through the
streets of Worthing where Mrs. Hastings had written her pioneering
books on Blavatsky, I felt that a certain part of my odyssey had been
completed; there were new roads to discover and I left for India.
My research at the Adyar Library and Archives at the international
headquarters of the Theosophical Society in Madras would take a year,
and I would return to India for another two years. The Adyar Library
founded in 1886 was the brain-child of Col. Olcott, President-Founder of
the T.S. It was meant to be a repository of Asiatic literature and was
initially built up around the personal library of H.P.B. and Olcott. Mme.
Blavatsky’s books have since been transferred to the Archives, but the
Adyar Library remains a sort of Theosophical Library of Congress. The
Archives holds the twenty volumes of press scrapbooks put together by
Blavatsky for 1875 to 1885, Col. Olcott’s diaries for 1878 to 1907,
correspondence, even samples of their hair.
The headquarters of the Indian Section of the Theosophical Society
is in Varanasi, but although the grounds had been the home of Annie
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Besant until her becoming President of the Society in 1907, the Tibbetts
Memorial Library there is quite small. The library at Benares Hindu
University, which Besant helped form, is of interest if one is surveying
19th century Indian history. The Blavatsky Lodge in Bombay is the oldest
surviving branch of the Theosophical Society, having been founded in
1880. Its library and that of the Bengal Theosophical Society in Calcutta,
chartered in 1882, supplied some obscure pamphlets. The National
Library in Calcutta (the former Imperial Library), though impressive in
structure, was disappointing in connection with Theosophy.
After travelling so widely and having read so much, it is still not an
easy task to define Theosophy in the 19th century. It is relatively simple
to cite ideas from books as representing Theosophy, but the overall
acceptance by members of these ideas is still difficult to ascertain. Unlike
established religion no set of beliefs were required to be a Theosophist.
There were Theosophists who remained Christian, Hindu, Parsi, or
Buddhist in outlook. Mme. Blavatsky, who is regarded as the main
architect of the modem Theosophical movement, had postulated three
propositions as the framework for her 1888 Secret Doctrine. A solitary
sheet in her handwriting in the T.S. Archives at Adyar summarizes it as
follows:
(a) An Omnipresent, Eternal and boundless Principle, beyond
the reach of words or thought, or in the words of the
Mandukya "unthinkable and unspeakable." In the Aitareya
Upanishad this Principle is referred to as the SELF, the only
one—as just shown.
(h) The Eternity of the Universe as a fixed abstraction, with
periodical appearances and disappearances of objective
manifestation; like a regular tidal ebb of flux and reflux; coeval
with, as being in one sense identical with the One Principle.
(c) The unity of all the Souls with the OVERSOUL or the
unknown Root, and the continuous transmigration of each ray
of the One infinite Light, in accordance with cyclic and Karmic
Law, during the whole Cycle of Necessity; that is to say from
the beginning of Manvantara to that of Pralaya, the Mayavic
Self starts as a pure Emanation and returns as a purified
Paramarthika Self, merged in the One Being (or Non-
Being)—the absolute "Paramarthika."
Historical Introduction 9
But even the analysis of the human entity offered in her 1889 Key to
Theosophy did not pass into general use.
We are on surer ground when we come to document the origin of
the Theosophical Society. A large amount of first-hand testimony survives
from those present at the initial gatherings of Sept, and Oct. 1875. Henry
Steel Olcott who was elected President published his Old Diary Leaves
(items 192, 196, 198, 199, 200, 201) first serially and then in book form
starting in 1895, "The First Leaf of T.S. History" (188), and his
Historical Retrospect (195). William Quan Judge, named Counsel to the
Society, contributed "Historic Theosophical Leaves" (139) with a
facsimile of the minutes of the first meeting of Sept. 8, 1875, and "The
Theosophical Society" (141). Henry J. Newton, the first Treasurer, was
interviewed in the New York Herald of Nov. 10, 1895 (item 452), as was
the first Librarian Charles Sotheran in the Herald of Aug. 16, 1891
(365). Emma Hardinge Britten, an initial Councillor, supplied her own
memories in "The Theosophical Society" (305).
The Dawning of the Theosophical Movement (338) and my
subsequent articles (340, 342) utilized these accounts, plus the original
by-laws of the Theosophical Society, minutes, the first Inaugural Address,
and contemporary newspapers reports to examine the emergence of the
movement in America. Contrary to the opinions of Theosophists and their
critics, the origin of the Theosophical Society was not cloaked in
mystery. It grew out of the interest generated by scientists in psychical
research. Before the founding of the Society, Col. Olcott and Mme.
Blavatsky had been working in conjunction with a group at the Imperial
University of St. Petersburg to find a medium who would travel to Russia
to be tested. Their growing dissatisfaction with the failure of the
Spiritualist movement to undertake adequate test conditions for mediums
and the lack of interest by the scientific community in America,
contributed to their decision to form a Society whose initial objects were
"to collect and diffuse a knowledge of the laws which govern the
universe."
As the 1875 Preamble to the by-laws of the Theosophical Society
noted:
The title of the Theosophical Society explains the objects and
desires of its founders: they seek "to obtain knowledge of the
nature and attributes of the Supreme Power and of the higher
spirits by the aid ofphysical processes." In other words, they
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
hope, that by going deeper than modem science has hitherto
done, into the esoteric philosophies of ancient times, they may
be enabled to obtain, for themselves and other investigators,
proof of the existence of an "Unseen Universe," the nature of
its inhabitants, if such there be, and the laws which govern
them and their relations with mankind.
Whatever may be the private opinions of its members, the
society has no dogmas to enforce, no creed to disseminate. It
is formed neither as a Spiritualistic schism, nor to serve as the
foe or friend of any sectarian or philosophic body. Its only
axiom is the omnipotence of truth, its only creed a profession
of unqualified devotion to its discovery and propagation. In
considering the qualifications of applicants for membership, it
knows neither race, sex, color, country, nor creed, (item 182)
With only limited success in America, Olcott and Blavatsky left for
India at the end of 1878, settling first in Bombay and in 1883 at Adyar,
Madras. In India the objects of the Theosophical Society received the
form known throughout the 19th century:
First,—To form the nucleus of an Universal Brotherhood of
Humanity, without distinction of race, creed or color.
Second,—'To promote the study of Aryan and other Eastern
literature, religions and sciences and vindicate its importance.
Third.—To investigate the hidden mysteries of Nature and the
psychical powers latent in man.
(Rules of the Theosophical Society 1882)
It was also in India that the movement gained its identity as a champion
of Eastern literature. Unlike the leading Orientalists in the West who
thought it unnecessary to travel to India and who gained their information
from texts, Blavatsky and Olcott associated themselves with some of the
country’s leading exponents of Hinduism and Buddhism. They came in
contact with the spirit of Indian life at a time when it struggled to retain
an identity against imported British culture. It is no surprise that the
Theosophical Society formed a link organization for a time with the
11
Indian reformer Swami Dayananda Saraswati or that it became vigorously
involved with the cause of Buddhist education in Sri Lanka. By 1885 the
movement had developed a network of 95 branches throughout the
subcontinent, making it the first all India organization promoting social
interaction between the differing races and castes.
Histories of the movement usually neglect the work in India after
Blavatsky’s departure. Certainly her presence in the West coincided with
a period of dramatic growth for the Theosophical Society, which had
eleven minimally functioning branches throughout Europe, England, and
America at the time of her settling in Wurzburg, Germany, at the end of
1885. In 1886 William Quan Judge began publishing the Theosophical
monthly The Path and the American Section of the T.S. was organized
later that year. The Theosophical Publishing Company, established in
London after Blavatsky moved there in 1887, soon found it necessary to
have its own printing press to accommodate the flow of Theosophical
literature. The adherence of public figures like Annie Besant in England
and Ella Wheeler Wilcox in America brought the movement increased
visibility.
Yet the movement in India and Ceylon continued to contribute to the
national life of those countries. In 1885 A.O. Hume, an Anglo-Indian
member, helped form the Indian National Congress, which would be
instrumental in winning India’s independence. The emergence of
organizations like the Congress, and the outlet provided by the growth of
educational and social reform movements, drew many socially-minded
Indians who had previously played an active part in the Theosophical
Society, such as Justice Ranade who had joined in 1878 and the young
Jawaharlal Nehru who became a member in 1903. Annie Besant, when
President of the Theosophical Society, became the last European to head
the Indian National Congress and the first woman to do so.
The part played by Theosophists in the Buddhist revival which
helped reinforce cultural identity cannot be denied. Col. Olcott brought
consensus to the rival Buddhist groups of Ceylon and travelled through
South East Asia promoting Buddhist unity with his Fourteen
Fundamentals of Buddhism as points of agreement. Christmas
Humphreys, a Theosophist who helped popularize Buddhism in England,
reports that when he travelled through Burma, Thailand and Ceylon in the
1940s, Olcott’s "Fundamentals" were still a starting point for Buddhist
dialogue. Another member, the Anagarika Dharmapala founded the Maha
12 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Bodhi Society in 1891 for the restoration of Buddhist sites in India, and
his Society has become a major avenue for the Buddhist revival in India.
In the West the Theosophical movement made its impact through the
arts. The influence of Theosophy on the Irish literary renaissance has
been well testified to by Theosophists William Butler Yeats and George
Russell. Blavatsky has percolated through modem literature in the works
of James Joyce and D.H. Lawrence. William York Tindall in his study
on The Literary Symbol believed that like many other writers "Lawrence,
for example, found the key to analogy in the works of Madame
Blavatsky." L. Frank Baum, author of the American children’s classic
The Wizard of Oz, had been a member of the Theosophical Society and
the color symbolism in his book reflects Theosophical concepts. Abstract
artists Kandinsky, Paul Klee, and Mondrian acknowledged the influence
of Theosophy on their work. Kandinsky in his manifesto Concerning the
Spiritual in Art observed that "Mme. Blavatsky was the first person after
a life of many years in India, to see a connection between these ‘savages’
and our ‘civilization.’" The Russian composer Scriabin wanted to set
Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine to music. W.Y. Evans Wentz, editor of the
Tibetan Book of the Dead, cited her favorably in his books, while Dr.
Edward Conze, whose translations made Buddhist Prajna Paramita
literature accessible to the English reader, told Mircea Eliade that he
thought Blavatsky a reincarnation of the Tibetan reformer Tsong-kha-pa
(Eliade, No Souvenirs, 1977, p. 208). Her writings continue to be noted
from Einstein (see item 733) to Elvis (item 832).
In spite of the acknowledged influence of her ideas, Helena Petrovna
Blavatsky remains associated with controversy. In 1968 millions of
American television viewers were erroneously informed that she had
written a Manual for Revolutionaries advocating the assassination of
public figures. Time magazine of July 19, 1968, in a follow-up story
claimed that "Controversial wherever she went, she was accused in 1885
by the Society for Psychical Research in London of fraud, forgery and
even of spying for the czar." Although the Secretary of the S.P.R. wrote
to the magazine to correct their article, stating that "Comments on
Madam Blavatsky were contained in a report by Richard Hodgson in Part
IX of Proceedings dated December 1885 and any accusations therein are
the responsibility of the author and not this organization," his letter was
not printed. (The Theosophists’ unsuccessful attempt to obtain redress
from the media in this matter is told in item 867.) The story of S.P.R.
Committee investigation of Theosophical phenomena will be found in
Historical Introduction 13
Chapter 8. Richard Hodgson’s findings published as part of the 1885
S.P.R. Committee report have been under criticism for over a century
though constantly cited as conclusive by those who have not researched
the case. In 1986 on the centenary of the report, the Journal of the
Society for Psychical Research published an analysis of Hodgson’s
methodology by Dr. Vernon Harrison. Harrison concludes,
I cannot exonerate the S.P.R. committee from blame for
publishing this thoroughly bad report. They seem to have done
little more than rubber-stamp Hodgson’s opinions; and no
serious attempt was made to check his findings or even read his
report critically. If they had done so, its errors of procedure,
its inconsistencies, its faulty reasoning and bias, its hostility
towards the subject and its contempt for the "native" and other
witnesses, would have become apparent; and the case would
have been referred back for further study. Madame H.P.
Blavatsky was the most important occultist ever to appear
before the S.P.R. for investigation; and never was opportunity
so wasted.
Nor can I exonerate the quondam Council of the Theosophical
Society for their failure to allow their founder fair defence.
They seemed concerned only with saving their own reputations.
Whether she was imposter or not, H.P.B. was entitled to a fair
hearing. She never had it. Had she been allowed the legal and
expert help she begged for, both Hodgson and the Society for
Psychical Research would have been in dire trouble, (item
1851)
Far more disruptive than anything written about Mme. Blavatsky,
were the events after her death known as the "Judge case." In 1894 Annie
Besant brought charges against William Quan Judge, Vice President of
the Theosophical Society, for circulating letters purporting to come from
the Mahatmas. The case remains divisive among Theosophists to this day,
and even the nature of the offense remains unclear, for Mrs. Besant
revealed that "I do not charge and have not charged Mr. Judge with
forgery in the ordinary sense of the term, but with giving a misleading
form to messages received psychically from the Master in various ways
without acquainting the recipients with this fact" (item 1989).
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Unlike the charges against Blavatsky, this matter was widely
reported by the press. In 1895 the American Section of the Theosophical
Society declared its autonomy, electing Judge President for life. After his
death a year later, E.T. Hargrove was elected President of Judge’s
Theosophical Society in America until Katherine Tingley reorganized it
in 1898. Mrs. Tingley, a charismatic figure who receives slight coverage
in this volume as the majority of accounts deal with her work in the 20th
century, closed the lodges in America and moved the headquarters of her
Universal Brotherhood Society to Point Loma California where it
flourished till 1942. Members who disagreed with her policies were
barred by Col. Olcott from rejoining the Adyar Theosophical Society, and
were forced to form numerous splinter groups or drift into the more
liberal Christian denominations, leavening American culture with
Theosophical ideas through groups like New Thought and Unity.
Undoubtedly part of the attraction of the Theosophical movement lay
in its colorful personalities: the enigmatic Madame Blavatsky, devoted
disciple of remote Indian adepts, granddaughter of a Russian princess
becoming an American citizen; Indians who broke Western stereotypes
by becoming spiritual models, such as the Vedantic scholar T. Subba
Row, who gave independent testimony to the existence of the Mahatmas
and whose early death at the age of 33 robbed the movement of an
important contributor; Damodar K. Mavalankar, a young Brahmin from
Bombay who abandoned caste and inheritance to work with the
Theosophists and who left for the Himalayan ashram of the Masters;
Mohini Chatteiji, who accompanied Blavatsky to England in 1884,
another disciple of the Masters, whose philosophical conversations left a
lasting impression on young Irishmen like Yeats. When the social
reformer Annie Besant joined in 1889, W.T. Stead, editor of the Review
of Reviews, proclaimed it the greatest Theosophical wonder of all: "To
have secured Mrs. Besant for Theosophy is an achievement much more
wonderful to me than the duplication of any number of teacups or tinkling
of whole peals of ‘astral bells’" (item 444). Mrs. Besant’s explanation of
her conversion to Theosophy reveals the deeper level of the movement’s
appeal, "There is sore need, it seems to me, in our unbrotherly, anti­
social civilization, of this distinct affirmation of a brotherhood as broad
as humanity itself' (item 10).
The Theosophical movement arose at a time characterized by Arthur
Schlesinger Sr. as a "Critical Period in American Religion, 1875-1900"
(see Religion in American History, ed. by John M. Mulder and John F.
15
Wilson, 1978). The static social order upheld by religion had been
challenged not so much by science, which was far from agreement on
evolutionary theory that posited gradual change, but by the rapid strides
created by industry, the new consumer classes, and the growing
movement to literacy. Spiritualism with its testimony to an after-life filled
with unlimited progress was a timely response and captured the public
imagination. But it lacked a spiritual philosophy that could explain the
glaring social inequalities of the time. This helped to make the
Theosophical Society such a success with its imported message of
reincarnation and karma, or as Blavatsky defined it, hope and
responsibility.
The Spiritualists and the clergy became the harshest critics of the
Theosophists. According to Spiritualist W. Emmette Coleman, "Such
visionary views of man, nature, and the spiritual realm were rapidly
dying out in civilized lands. But through the efforts of one woman, H.P.
Blavatsky, there has sprung up a temporary revival of these moribund
superstitions" (The Carrier Dove, July 27, 1889). Blavatsky may have
had critics like Coleman in mind when she wrote that "an old woman
who has had enough wit from her childhood to make fools of all who
came near her, who for the last fourteen years has been able to
deceive—let us say hypnotize—hundreds of intelligent men and dozens of
personages of the highest society, including some brilliant minds very
well known as men of science, such a woman surely deserves to pass into
history, and, we hasten to add, her victims with her" (item 1831).
And pass into history she has. Like Shakespeare’s heroine it seems
that "Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety." The
philosophy she helped popularize can be dismissed or ignored, but the
attendant terminology it brought, such as Avatara, Bodhisattva, Deva,
Dharma, Karma, Mahatma, Mantra, Maya, Rishi, Shamballa, Yoga, and
so on, has enriched our language. She opened the field of the occult to
women as no one before her had done. She worked to foster a movement
that encouraged dialogue that did not disqualify because of race, creed,
caste, sex or color.
Every attempt has therefore been made to have the present
bibliography as comprehensive as possible. Although the focus is on
works in English, some exceptions are made with those few books or
pamphlets that have been quoted extensively from other languages, such
as Rene Guenon’s Le Theosophisme (350). The overall emphasis is on
historical and biographical material published up to 1992, and every item
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
has been seen by myself. Providing annotations was sometimes difficult,
for Theosophists seem to have no concept of a thesis or conclusion in
what they write. I am reminded of Mark Twain’s words in this matter,
"The researches of many commentators have already thrown much
confusion on this subject, and it is probable that, if they continue, we
shall soon know nothing at all about it."
The division of Chapter 2 into histories and biographies of the
movement by Theosophists and non-Theosophists allows a distinct
perspective. Theosophists chose to describe personalities—Olcott has 39
entries solely about him, Judge 23, Besant 19, Damodar 10, T. Subba
Row 7. Non-Theosophists dealt more with events, though Olcott still
received 18 items and Besant 16. Not all non-Theosophists were
dismissive, and the trend seems to be to examine the movement in the
context of larger social issues, such as Diana Burfield’s "Theosophy and
Feminism" (306). Nor were all Theosophists credulous; the studies by
Ellwood (82) and Wickremeratne (269) remain among the most insightful
things written about Theosophy in the 19th century.
In dealing with the source material for Mme. Blavatsky’s two major
works in Chapter 3, I chose those books that served her best, listing the
location of her copies that have survived. She was also familiar with the
Old and New Testaments, citing Genesis and Exodus heavily in Isis
Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine. Aside from the translations of world
scriptures, she quoted extensively from Greek and Roman authors
Aristotle, Herodotus, Hesiod’s Theogony, Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey,
Plato, Pliny’s Natual History, Plutarch, Porphyry, Proclus, Psellus in her
books. The caliber of the occult literature that was being produced when
Blavatsky was writing provides a useful contrast and these have been
mentioned in part C of Chapter 3. Only 19th century editions of
Blavatsky’s works are listed in Chapter 4; future volumes of the
bibliography on Theosophy in the 20th century will cover reprints during
the time period when they continued to appear.
Works about H.P. Blavatsky form the largest segment of the
bibliography, some 600 items. Here Mme. Blavatsky can be found in her
various roles. There seems to be a preoccupation with her appearance,
her smoking and swearing—as she told one of her followers, "I like your
English language, you can say so much with one word—Damn!" As in
Chapter 2, the focus is on biographical material. How often have I spent
hours or even months tracking down some obscure pamphlet or article
mentioning her, only to find it having very little to do with Blavatsky,
17
such as T.F. Day’s pamphlet (not listed) Madam Blavatsky and the
Message of Bellamy which says a lot about Bellamy but next to nothing
about Blavatsky. The more controversial aspects of her career are
covered in Chapter 8.
So much has been written about the Mahatmas and their
correspondence with A.P. Sinnett that a chapter is reserved for this
subject. Initially, knowledge of Blavatsky’s Indian teachers was limited
to the elect, till Sinnett placed the matter before the public with his 1881
Occult World dedicated to "Mahatma Koot Hoomi." Blavatsky in turn
was forced to reveal that "the Master [K.H.] is a Punjabi whose family
was settled for years in Kashmir" (item 707). Of her own teacher she
wrote in a letter that "Morya lives generally with Koot-Hoomi who has
a house in the direction of the Kara Korum Mountains beyond Ladak,
which is Little Tibet and belongs now to Kashmir" (162). It has never
been explained why Mme. Blavatsky should choose to create human
Mahatmas, who would eventually require tangible evidence for their
existence, at a time when Spiritualists believed implicitly in disincamate
guides and when the modem occult movement functions successfully with
astral adepts. The idea of the Mahatmas as spiritually evolved human
beings survives in India to this day, and in the course of my research I
met relatives of those early Indian Theosophists who testified to meeting
M. and K.H. physically; their family tradition assures them that such
meetings were neither fabricated nor later denied.
A.P. Sinnett’s writings utilizing this unique source on Theosophy are
also given in Chapter 6. Other 19th century Theosophical authors will be
found in Chapter 7. Here again only editions of the period are given,
reprints will be listed in the volumes of the bibliography covering the
20th century. Theosophical periodicals contributed heavily to the literature
of the movement and a complete coverage of these publications is in
Chapter 9. No overall study of the literature of the Theosophical
movement in the 19th century exists. Alvin Boyd Kuhn’s 1930
Theosophy: A Revival ofAncient Wisdom (150) analyzes the teachings of
Theosophy based on the writings of Blavatsky and the Mahatma Letters.
An informative study guide to what Theosophists have come to refer to
as the source literature, distinguishing it from later additions, has been
produced by the Los Angeles Center for Theosophic Studies (available
from Nautilus Books, P.O. Box 2803, Turlock, CA 95381-2803, U.S.A.)
as an introduction to the video titled "The Perennial Wisdom." Although
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
only 146 pages, it provides a succinct summation of Theosophy with
recommended reading and a bibliography of the literature still in print.
The successful completion of this bibliography would not have been
possible without the computer skills of Eldon Tucker and Jerry Hejka-
Ekins, who contributed in a large way to the final formating. Fellow
researchers went through different sections while the book was in
progress, and I thank them for their comments. I thank also those who
allowed me access to their personal collections, especially Walter A.
Carrithers of Fresno, California, Anita Atkins of New York, and Mr. and
Mrs. E. Pelletier of Edmonton, Canada. Mr. Ted G. Davy, former editor
of The Canadian Theosophist and one of the most knowledgeable people
on the history of the movement, was kind enough to read through the
proofs with me. The Theosophical movement under various forms is
represented in 60 countries today. Most major cities have some
Theosophical branch or lodge or society which has built up a library
relating to its study. Researchers will find these resources an interesting
adjunct to their scholarly pursuit.
CHAPTER 2
Histories and Biographies
"Demon est deus inversus," Mme. Blavatsky reminds the reader in one
of her chapters in The Secret Doctrine, and the present chapter on
histories and biographies of the movement by Theosophists and non-
Theosophists illustrates the point. As Theosophists see it, they are
involved in a great work, part of the Divine Plan, for which the early
leaders labored under great opposition and slander. As seen by their
critics, Theosophists were at best dismissed as self-deluded, and at worst
tools in Satan’s ploy to enslave mankind. One thing is certain, after going
through hundreds of titles, and that is the same handful of sources have
been utilized over and over.
Our perceptions of Theosophy have been shaped to a great extent by
Henry Steel Olcott’s six volume narrative of the movement, Old Diary
Leaves (items 192, 196, 198, 199, 200, 201). This was the first major
history of the Society, written at a time when Olcott had become quite
critical of Blavatsky, and as it was based on his daily diary kept from
1878 to the year he died, 1907, it could not afford to be overlooked.
Scattered throughout his pages are references to correspondence with
leading Theosophists, including Mme. Blavatsky, quotes from
contemporary papers, and material no longer extant.
Going over the same sources for my study on the beginning of the
movement in America (item 338), I found his reporting to be pretty
accurate. If anything he played down his own early leading role in the
Society. His intention was to give a realistic pen portrait of his late
colleague, and he corroborated the phenomena witnessed in her company
by references to similar incidents seen in his travels, ranging from the
19
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
yogis of India to Charcot’s hypnotized patients in France. Consequently
there are frequent digressions for examples on the reality of occult
phenomena. He sometimes "puts horses before carts," as critic Beatrice
Hastings remarks about his presentation, and events and dates are
jumbled, but these are few considering that his account was written for
monthly installments in The Theosophist, often while on tour with no
chance of correcting proofs. The Colonel’s 1896 Historical Retrospect
(195) prints the text of many of the documents referred to, and forms a
useful means of adjustment.
Olcott’s narrative begins abruptly with his meeting Mme. Blavatsky
on Oct. 14, 1874. Little background is given, not only on the two
Founders, but of the period that shaped the movement. This is remedied
in part by Annie Besant’s Autobiography (12) ending in 1893, four years
after becoming a Theosophist. The moral anguish of the time, the
religious doubt, the soul-searching is well articulated. Her visit to the
Oxford Divine, Dr. Pusey, in the hope of calming her turmoil, reveals
the prevailing attitude that led many to Theosophy.
He probably saw I was anxious, shy, and nervous, and he
treated me as a penitent going to confession and seeking the
advice of a director, instead of as an inquirer struggling after
truth, and resolute to obtain some firm standing-ground in the
sea of doubt. He would not deal with the question of the Deity
of Jesus as a question for argument. "You are speaking of your
Judge," he retorted sternly, when I pressed a difficulty. The
mere suggestion of an imperfection in the character of Jesus
made him shudder, and he checked me with raised hand. "You
are blaspheming. The very thought is a terrible sin." Would he
recommend me any books that might throw light on the subject?
"No, no; you have read too much already. You must pray; you
must pray."
"It is not your duty to ascertain the truth," he told me, sternly.
"It is your duty to accept and believe the truth as laid down by
the Church. At your peril you reject it. The responsibility is not
yours so long as you dutifully accept that which the Church has
laid down for your acceptance. Did not the Lord promise that
the presence of the Spirit should be ever with His Church, to
guide her into all truth?" "But the fact of the promise and its
21
value are just the very points on which I am doubtful," I
answered. He shuddered. "Pray, pray," he said. "Father, forgive
her, for she knows not what she says."
Alvin Boyd Kuhn’s Theosophy (150) remains the sole attempt to
analyze the teachings of the movement based on 19th century sources.
Kuhn’s work was probably the first study on the movement to help earn
a doctoral degree. More recently Dr. Robert Ellwood (item 82) has
placed the initial development of the Theosophical Society in the context
of the growth of American religious life. Prof. Carl Jackson (item 367)
has followed the movement till the end of the 19th century seeing it as one
of the avenues for the popularization of Indian philosophy in America.
Bruce Campbell (307) fails on history, but the questions raised in his
conclusion on the conflicting positions Theosophists have sometimes
adopted should be taken into account.
For critical evaluations, Wm. Emmette Coleman’s 1893 "Critical
Historical Review of the Theosophical Society" (item 312) has served as
the outline for many subsequent works. His summations of criticisms
from the early Spiritualist press against the Theosophists have been
circulated as actualities by later writers who have obviously never
checked his sources. Farquhar (324) refined Coleman’s position, elevating
him into an authority, and lamented that "It is greatly to be regretted that
Coleman’s promised book [exposing Theosophy] never appeared."
Asian writers have been more appreciative in their treatment of the
movement, whether they were eyewitnesses like Dharmapala (items 63,
64, 65), Sri Prakasa (417), Rangaswami Aiyer (218), Sen (230),
Subramania Iyer (245), or modem commentators like Wickremeratne
(265, 266, 267, 268, 269), Malagoda (389), Suntharalingam (449),
Kirthisinghe (377, 378, 379), and Kamerkar (373).
Outstanding among modem Theosophical histories is Josephine
Ransom’s Short History (item 219), if only for the brief references it
gives to the relevant material in the Archives at the international
headquarters of the Theosophical Society, Adyar, Madras, India. My own
Dawning of the Theosophical Movement (338) shows how the movement
was covered by the New York press at its inception. The earliest
meetings of the Theosophical Society are further examined in two articles
(items 340, 342) using the 1875-76 Minute Book, and material relating
to the Sept. 7, 1875 gathering when the Society was proposed.
22 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Although most writers in this section appear to be in deadly earnest
about their subject matter, Thomas Anstey Guthrie’s 1886 novel A Fallen
Idol (354) offers a welcome comic relief. More than this, it helps toward
a better understanding of the period, without which the Theosophical
movement and the motivations that led people to it remain unintelligible.
Too many of the titles listed err by depicting Theosophy as springing
solely from the fertile imagination of Mme. Blavatsky, like Athena full-
bom from the head of Zeus. The error is further compounded by going
on to equate the movement’s existence with her life, so that a recounting
of her faults can be considered sufficient reason for dismissing
Theosophy. Great care has therefore been taken in this section to separate
publications that are actually histories and biographies of the movement
from those relating to H.P.B.’s life. Works that are really biographies of
Blavatsky are given in Chapter 5.
23
A. By Theosophists
1. Agarwal, C.V. "The Theosophical Society and Anagarika
Dharmapala.M
The Maha Bodhi (Calcutta) 100:1 (Jan.-May 1992):
77-80.
Stresses Olcott’s work in the development of the Maha Bodhi
Society during the 1890s. Gives some background on Dharmapala and
subsequent developments.
2. Agarwal, Hridaya Narain, comp. Reminiscences of Colonel H.S.
Olcott by various writers. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1932. viii, 81 pp.
Short reminiscences of Col. Olcott from prominent Theosophists,
including Blavatsky, Sinnett, Besant, Leadbeater, and Indian members,
previously published and collected together for his birth centenary.
3. "Annie Besant’s First Visit to India." The Indian Theosophist
(Varanasi) 33:10 (October 1936): 214-16. Rept. with additions
40:10 (October 1943): 194-204.
Itinerary and press coverage of Mrs. Besant’s 1893 lecture tour of
India.
4. Arundale, Francesca. "The Early Days of Theosophy in Europe."
The Theosophist 44:8 (May 1923): 206-10.
Miss Arundale reviews Sinnett’s posthumous Early Days (236).
Reminds the reader that Sinnett was writing as "an Englishman with all
the prejudices of an Englishman." Differs with some of his interpretations
and recollection of events.
* Arya Asanga. See Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus
24 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
5. Ballard, Seymour. "The Reticence of T. Subba Row." The
Theosophist 77:10 (July 1956): 241-44.
"The real source of his reticence, one feels, was a general
reluctance by men of the East, which he shared, to make available too
easily to the materialistic men of the West something so profound as their
understanding of the ancient wisdom."
6 . ------- . "The President-Founder." The American Theosophist
49:10 (October 1961): 199-201.
Brief synopsis of Olcott’s achievements before leaving America.
7. Bayly, Charles. "Reminiscences of Early Days in the Theosophical
Society." The Adyar Bulletin 17:7 (July 1924): 193-201.
Theosophical life in the 1890s at 19 Avenue Road, Mrs. Besant’s
home, which became headquarters for the movement in Europe.
8.' Beechey, Katherine A. "Damodar K. Mavalankar." The
Theosophist 78:4 (January 1957): 225-29.
Biographical "Speech made at the unveiling of Damodar’s bust at
Adyar, Dec. 14, 1956." Miss Beechey was Keeper of the Archives of
the Theosophical Society at Adyar. Has photo of bust.
9. Bennett, De Robigne Mortimer. "A Truth Seeker Around the
World." The Truth Seeker (New York) May 6, 13, June 3, 10,
1882, pp. 274-77, 290-93, 338-47, 354-55. Rept. in Vol. 2 and
3, A Truth Seeker Around the World. New York: D.M. Bennett
[1882], pp. 692-758, 7-96.
Bennett, the famous American freethinker, arrived in Bombay Jan.
10, 1882. Recounts meeting Olcott, Damodar, describes the Theosophical
headquarters, gives speeches from the Jan. 1882 Convention, and copious
25
extracts from Sinnett’s Occult World. Bennett joined the Society in
Bombay Jan. 14, 1882.
10. Besant, Annie. Why I Became A Theosophist. London:
Freethought Publishing Company, 1889. 31 pp. Rept. Adyar,
Madras: Proprietors of The Theosophist, 1889. 23 pp. New
York: The Path Office, 1890. 28 pp. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1891. 30 pp. Adyar, Madras: Issued by the
Theosophical Society, 1891. 23 pp.
Lecture at the Hall of Science, London, Aug. 4 and 11, 1889,
condensed into a pamphlet. Explains her avowal of the Theosophic cause:
the Society’s principles interest her as they offer a solution to the riddles
of psychology that her materialism could not answer. "I ask no other
epitaph on my tomb, but SHE TRIED TO FOLLOW TRUTH."
1 1 .--------. 1875 to 1891: A Fragment of Autobiography. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891. 14 pp. Benares:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 24 pp. Rept. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1917. 22 pp.
Besant’s path to Secularism and the Hall of Science, where she
first lectured in 1875. Now given the choice between deleting references
to Theosophy in her lectures there or leave the platform, she bids them
farewell. Says she has received letters from the Masters since H.P.B.’s
death.
1 2 .--------. An Autobiography. London: T. Fisher Unwin, 1893,
1894, 2nd ed. 1908, 1917, 1920. Philadelphia: Henry Altemus,
[1893]. 368 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1939. 653 pp. 1983. xiv, 332 pp.
Mrs. Besant’s story of her experiments with Truth. Charts her
course from storm to peace as a clergyman’s wife to freethinker,
promoter of birth control and Fabian socialist to Theosophist where it
ends at 1893. Originally serialized in The Weekly Sun, London, starting
26 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
April 23, 1893, as "Through Storm to Peace." The 1939 Adyar edition
includes an additional survey of her life by George Arundale, and
biographical notes for 1889-1933, compiled mainly from her writings.
1 3 .------- . "The Last Days of the President-Founder." The
Theosophist 28:6 (March 1907): 425-33. Rept. Madras: The
Theosophist Office, 1907. 57 pp.
Olcott’s final days from Jan. 14 to Feb. 17, 1907, when he
breathed his last at 7:17 in the morning. Says three Masters and H.P.B.
were present. Rept. includes item 14 and Besant’s Presidential Address.
1 4 .------- . "Henry Steel Olcott." The Theosophist 28:6 (March
1907): 433-38. Rept. in The Theosophical Review 40 (April 1907):
97-102.
Obituary of Olcott that appeared in the Pioneer, the Hindu, and
other Indian newspapers. "India has had no more faithful helper in the
revival of her religions than this noble American."
1 5 .--------. Colonel Henry Steel Olcott. His Life and Lessons. Benares
and London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1907. 18 pp.
A lecture given at the Town Hall, Benares, March 27, 1907,
dealing with his agricultural work, investigation for the U.S. government,
and legal and journalistic life.
1 6 .------- . "Theosophical Worthies." The Theosophist, June, Sept.,
1909, Jan., Mar. 1910, Jan., Mar., May, Nov. 1911.
Short biographical sketches of William Quan Judge, Bertram
Keightley, George Robert Stowe Mead, Alexander Fullerton,
Norendranath Sen, the Countess Wachtmeister, Dominique Albert
Courmes and C.W. Leadbeater. The piece on Leadbeater was reprinted
in The Theosophist, April 1934, pp. 71-74.
27
1 7 .--------. Two Disciples. Chicago: The Theosophical Society,
American Section, 1910. 6 pp.
On Damodar and T. Subba Row. Says Subba Row has
reincarnated and is a 16 year old boy who will be "one of the future
workers for the Society."
1 8 .--------. "Our Founders." The Theosophist 32:4 (January 1911):
676-77.
Olcott and Blavatsky with two portraits.
19. Besterman, Theodore. A Bibliography of Annie Besant. London:
The Theosophical Society in England, 1924, pp. 30-44.
Gives 60 Theosophical titles by Besant between 1889 and 1900.
Lists a total of 437 books and pamphlets by Besant by 1923.
20. Bilimoria, N.F. "Colonel Olcott’s Services to Zoroastrianism."
The Theosophist 28:6 (March 1907): 466-68.
Says that Olcott’s lecture "The Spirit of Zoroastrianism" delivered
in Bombay, Feb. 14, 1882, "kindled the fire of religious revival once
more in the heart of the Parsi community."
21. Blanch, Grace. "The Early Days of Blavatsky Lodge, London."
The Theosophical Journal (London) 3:6 (Nov.-Dec. 1962): 6-9.
Account of the first meeting, May 19, 1887, of the Lodge of the
Theosophical Society formed around Blavatsky after her arrival in
Maycot, England.
28 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
22. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. "A Word with our Friends."
Supplement to The Theosophist, January 1881, pp. 1-4. Rept.
B:CW 3, pp. 10-13.
In reply to a charge that Col. Olcott was an adventurer come to
India, Blavatsky prints Olcott’s credentials and achievements. Says ”his
name has been widely known in America for nearly thirty years as a
promoter of various public reforms.” Reprint gives only Blavatsky’s
introduction without the testimonials to Olcott.
2 3 .------- . "We Stand Corrected./ The Bombay Gazette and the
Theosophical Society." The Bombay Gazette, Apr. 3, 1882, p. 2.
Rept. in Light (London), May 13, 1882, p. 229. Rept. B:CW 4,
pp. 94-95.
Letter to the editor of the Bombay Gazette replying to an editorial
on Swami Dayananda’s connection with the Theosophical Society.
"Neither the Arya-Samaj nor the Theosophical Society as a body, was
ever a branch of the other....Both the societies as bodies, were perfectly
independent from each other, the ‘Theosophical Section of the Arya
Samaj’ being a branch of both."
2 4 .------- . "The Organization of the T.S." The Theosophist, June-
Sept. 1924. Rept. as "The Original Programme of the
Theosophical Society." The Theosophist 52:11 (August 1931):
561-89. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1931,
1966, 1974, pp. 1-74. Rept. B:CW1, pp. 145-71.
Counters item 38 by outlining the initial concept for the Society,
showing the evolution of the Society’s rules. Supplies a strong defence of
Olcott as President.
25. Blech, Charles. Contribution a THistoire de la Societe
Theosophique en France. Paris: Editions Adyar, 1933. 215 pp.
29
Theosophy in France mainly during H.P.B.’s lifetime. Prints her
letters to French members Commandant Courmes, M. Biliere, and Mme.
Lemaitre.
26. Bonggren, Jacob E. "There Were Such Rules." Letter to the
Editor, The Canadian Theosophist, Jan. 15, 1940, pp. 345-46.
Bonggren, who joined the Society in America in 1883 and helped
form the Chicago Branch in 1884, says there were originally three grades
in the Society, the third being the Masters. Gives "The Course as a
Beginner" circulated to members at that time.
27. Bragdon, Claude. Episodesfrom an Unwritten History. Rochester,
NY: The Manas Press, 1910, 2nd (Enlarged) ed. pp. 5-88.
Contains biographies of Blavatsky, Olcott, Judge, Sinnett,
Wachtmeister, Besant. Attempts to deal with the Coulomb and S.P.R.
accounts.
28. Bright, Esther. Ch. 1-5 in Old Memories and Letters of Annie
Besant. London: Theosophical PublishingHouse, 1936, pp. 19-78.
Miss Bright, daughter of the Labour MP, the Hon. Jacob Bright,
joined the Society in Sept. 1891. Her "Memories" are aided by Mrs.
Besant’s letters to her and extracts from Miss Bright’s diary.
Considerable background on the musical and political life in London
during the 1890s—Joachim, the Parnell Case, Gladstone, as well as the
role played by prominent Theosophists.
2 9 .--------."Old Days in Avenue Road." The Theosophist 61:1
(October 1940): 102-8.
Life at the Theosophical headquarters at 19 Avenue Road,
London, during the 1890s. Says that H.P.B.’s pupils "looked on Mrs.
Besant as a newcomer."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
H.P.B. sums up this "Manifesto," written Sept. 23, 1886, in a
letter to W.Q. Judge, Oct. 3, 1886, as "Society useless; Brotherhood a
flapdoodle; President—a vain, worldly, conceited, un-theosophical and
unbrotherly and pernicious fool. Down then, with President, Head-
Quarters, Society and all." This is an oversimplification. Actually the
authors took issue with the fact that the Society’s power was vested in the
President, and that the admission fee amounted to a form of taxation on
members and was inconsistent with the principle of Brotherhood. Replied
to by item 24.
39. Chetty, G. Soobiah. "The Purchase of Adyar Headquarters. A
Reminiscence of H.P.B." The Theosophist 47:6 (March 1926):
741-47.
Soobiah Chetty’s father figured among those who invited Col.
Olcott and H.P.B. to Madras to help form a branch of the Society in
1882. The younger Chetty accompanied them on their visit to the
neighboring towns of Tiruvellam, Nellore, and Mylapore, and was
present when the purchase of Huddleston Gardens on the bank of the
Adyar River was decided on.
4 0 .--------. "Old Diary Leaves." Adyar Notes and News, Aug. 9,
1928, pp. 5-6.
Another variation on the arrival of Col. Olcott and Mme.
Blavatsky in Madras in 1882, and the buying of the Adyar headquarters
which his family advanced the down payment for.
41. Clark, Abbott. "Old Memories of Judge." Letter to the Editor,
The Canadian Theosophist, May 15, 1940, pp. 88-89.
When Clark joined the Society in San Diego in 1888 there was "a
three quarters of an hour long initiation ceremony." Ate porterhouse steak
with Judge on the West Coast.
Histories and Biographies 33
42. Cleather, Alice Leighton, Basil Crump, E.F., E.A.I., and A.B.C.
"Theosophy in Many Lands. London." The Theosophist, Mar.
1890-Dec. 1899.
The monthly letter on happenings at headquarters in London
contributed by Mrs. Cleather from Mar. 1890 to May 1895, by Basil
Crump, June and July 1895, while she attended the American convention.
As she followed Judge, it was continued by E.F. Aug. 1895, E.A.I.
Sept.-Oct. 1895, and A.B.C. Nov. 1898 to Dec. 1899.
43. Cleather, Alice Leighton. Why 1 Believe in Buddhism. Peking,
China: [The Author,] 1926. 3rd ed. Oct. 1926. 19 pp.
Mrs. Cleather, who formally embraced Buddhism at Buddha Gaya
in 1920, gives the events that led her to this. Read Sinnett’s Esoteric
Buddhism, joined the Society 1884, met Mme. Blavatsky in 1887. Adds
that "Madame Blavatsky’s ‘Esoteric Buddhism’ is in line with what I find
taught by the Mahayana School of Northern Buddhism."
* Collins, Mabel. See Cook, Mabel Collins
44. Colville, William J. A History of Theosophy. Boston: Freedom j
Publishing Company, 1896. 247 pp.
Less a history and more a "brief popular outline of so vast and
far-reaching a movement as Theosophy" from its earliest beginnings in ;
ancient Egypt and India. It provides an interesting analysis of
Theosophical literature as seen from the 1890s and a chapter on the work
of Annie Besant for Theosophy.
45. Conger, Arthur L., ed. Practical Occultism From the Private
Letters of William Q. Judge. Pasadena, CA: Theosophical
University Press, 1951, 1980. 307 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Judge’s letters of advice, mainly to American Theosophists,
1882-1891, taken from copies in his letterbooks in the Archives of the
T.S. Pasadena.
46. Cook, Mabel Collins. "Some Psychic Experiences." Broad Views
1:5 (May 1905): 432-40. Rept. in Theosophical History 2:4
(October 1987): 118-25.
On the psychic methods used in the writing of the Idyll of the
White Lotus and her other Theosophical books. Gives a facsimile of the
altered script that the Idyll was written in.
4 7 .------- . "Early Psychic Experiences." The Messenger 9:2 (July
1921): 29-33.
Experiences with Spiritualism in London before she joined the
T.S.
4 8 .--------. "Light on the Path. A Note." The Occult Review
(London), August 1911, pp. 102-4.
On the publication of Light on the Path in 1885, which M.C.
credits to the efforts of the then President of the London Lodge, T.S.,
Mr. G.B. Finch.
49. Cooper, John. "The Influence of the Theosophical Movement on
World Thought." Theosophy in Australia 47:3 (Sept. 1983):
153-58. Rept. in Theosophy in New Zealand, Sept., Dec. 1991.
Cooper says he has 28 sub-headings for areas where the
Theosophical movement has influenced important people or other social
movements. Gives the examples of A. Dharmapala, Alexandra
David-Neel, Prof, and Mrs. D.T. Suzuki, the Roerichs, Edward Conze,
Alan Watts, F.L. Woodward, Dr. Evans-Wentz.
35
5 0 .--------. "Damodar K. Mavalankar—A Theosophical Mystery.”
The Eclectic Theosophist (San Diego), May-June 1984, pp. 8-10.
Rept. in Theosophy in Australia 48:3 (Sept. 1984): 252-54.
Damodar’s mysterious disappearance for three days at Jammu,
North India, Nov. 1883.
51. Cooper-Oakley, Isabel. Theosophy in England. [Bombay,] Nov.
21, 1890. 6 pp.
A printed letter telling about the headquarters and lecture hall at
19 Avenue Rd., London, and the working staff resident there.
52. Cranmer-Byng, L. "Back To Theosophy: A Page of
Autobiography." The Theosophical Review n.s. 1:11 (November
1925): 581-91.
The editor of the "Wisdom of the East” series recalls his transit
through the Theosophical Society in the 1890s, noting the books and
people who influenced him.
53. [Crosbie, Robert, ed.] "Masters and Their Message. Some
Chapters from Theosophical History." Theosophy Magazine (Los
Angeles), July 1914-July 1915, Nov., Dec. 1915.
A philosophic interpretation of the history of the Theosophical
movement in the 19th century with ethics playing a deciding factor.
Chapters deal with "The Failure of the Society," "Conspiracy Against
Judge," and "The Causes of the Conspiracy Against William Q. Judge."
54. Crump, Basil. Letter to the Editor, The Occult Review (London),
July 1928, pp. 46-47.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
5 5 .------- . "Light on the Path." Letter to the Editor, The Occult
Review (London), April 1929, pp. 263-64.
These two letters on his late step-aunt, "the medium" Mabel
Collins Cook, reveal that Light on the Path was inspired by the
Theosophical adept "Hilarion." A facsimile of the title page of Crump’s
copy annotated by Mabel Collins bears this out, see B:CW 8, 428.
5 6 .--------. "Personal Reminiscences 1892-1938." Typescript, n.d. 9
pp.
The major part of this typescript covers the events leading to his
meeting Mrs. Cleather in 1892, and their support for Judge. (Probably
written in 1938 at the time of Mrs. Cleather’s death.)
5 7 .--------. "What the Founders of the Theosophical Society did for
Buddhism." The Maha Bodhi 50:3 (March 1942): 83-87.
A misleading title as this short article deals mostly with the life of
Mme. Blavatsky and tells little about Col. Olcott and his contribution to
Buddhism.
58. Dahl, OleW. "Reminiscences of Early T.S. Days." The American
Theosophist 23:4 (April 1935): 80-81.
Describes the evolution of Theosophy in Kristiana (now Oslo),
Norway, in the early 1890s, the chartering of the first lodge in Aug.
1893, the nature of its meetings, and the effect of the Judge split.
59. Datta, Hirendra Nath. Dr. Besant and India's Religious Revival.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, Feb. 1934, 1935. 22 pp.
Datta’s lecture, delivered at the T.S. Convention of 1933, recalls
Besant’s work for India from her arrival in 1893. He had heard her
37
lecture in Calcutta in Dec. 1894, and became one of the foundation
members of her Central Hindu College in 1897.
60. Davidge, John L. "The Progressive Founding of the Theosophical
Society." The Theosophist 60:10 (July 1939): 367-77. Rept.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1939. 36 pp.
"The question is whether the Theosophical Society was bom on
October 30 or on November 17." Davidge says Oct. 30, 1875, the
Society was organized, the by-laws adopted, officers elected, and Olcott
was ipsofacto President. Upholds Nov. 17 as that of its inauguration. An
Appendix reprints the prophecy of Ramalingam Swami, a South Indian
yogi who died in 1874, that "the time is not far off when persons from
Russia, America and other foreign lands will come to India and preach
to you this same doctrine of Universal Brotherhood."
6 1 .--------. The Theosophist in the Days of the Founders." The
Theosophist 61:1 (October 1939): 47-55.
Quotes from Olcott’s diary, July and Sept. 1879, on the starting
of the magazine.
62. Davy, Ted G. Students of Theosophy who have Contributed to the
Literature of the Bhagavad-Gita. Calgary, Canada: The Author,
Oct. 1982. 8 pp. Rept. as Theosophist-Contributors to the
Literature of the Bhagavad-Gita. Edmonton, Canada: The Lizzie
Arthur Russell Theosophical Memorial Trust, 1986. 16 pp.
A bibliography giving translations and commentaries by
Theosophists on the Gita with notes on the authors.
63. Dharmapala, Anagarika. "Autobiography of Rev. Devamitta
Dharmapala." The Theosophist 54:10 (July 1933): 487.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Letter to C. Jinarajadasa, 1921, giving background on his contact
with Theosophy, from his first hearing about it in 1878 to his meeting
Olcott and Blavatsky in 1880 and his visit to Adyar in 1884.
6 4 .--------. "Memories of an Interpreter of Buddhism to the
Present-Day World." Asia, September 1927. Rept. in Return to
Righteousness, ed. by A. Guruge. Ceylon: Ministry of Education
and Cultural Affairs, 1965, 1991, pp. 681-96.
6 5 .--------. "Reminiscences of my Early Life." Maha-Bodhi Journal
41 (May-June 1933). Rept. in Return to Righteousness, 1965,
1991, pp. 697-705.
Of the two sketches item 64 offers an overall assessment of his
work especially in relation to Buddhism; item 65 is more personal,
discussing in detail his relations with Mme. Blavatsky and Col. Olcott,
ending in 1891. "In those days the Himalayan Adepts were a reality....I
was then a devoted follower of the Master K.H. and I loved to do work
in his name."
6 6 .------- . "Diary Leaves of the Late Ven. Anagarika Dharmapala,"
ed. by Devapriya Valisinha. Maha-Bodhi Journal (Calcutta), Dec.
1950, Feb. 1951, pp. 422-27, 13-18.
Extracts from Dharmapala’s diary of Aug. 1 to Oct. 1893 dealing
with his visit to Chicago as the delegate for Southern Buddhism at the
World Parliament of Religions and the various Theosophists he met en
route.
67. Dunlop, Eleanor [E.H.D.]. "Interview with Mrs. Alice L.
Cleather." The Lamp (Toronto) 3:12 (February 1900): 206-8.
Mrs. Cleather talks about her negative experiences with Mrs.
Tingley and the doubts she experienced as part of the 1896 Theosophical
crusade around the world.
Histories and Biographies 39
* E. H. D. See Dunlop, Eleanor
68. "Echoes From the Past." The Theosophist, April 1907-July 1908,
Oct.-Dec. 1908, Jan.-Mar. 1909.
Letters from H.P.B., mainly to Olcott, letters from K.H.,
Damodar, plus selections from H.P.B. on the Masters, Spiritualism, the
T.S., in twenty installments.
69. Edge, Sydney V. "Adyar." Lucifer 9 (November 15, 1891):
226-27.
Description of the Society’s headquarters in 1891, the Adyar
Library, living conditions, and work carried on there.
70. Edger, Lilian. "Memories of Colonel Olcott." The Theosophist
61:11 (August 1940): 369-73.
Miss Edger became the first General Secretary of the New
Zealand Section of the T.S. in 1896. She toured Australia and New
Zealand with Col. Olcott on his 1897 visit, and was taken back to India
with him to deliver the Adyar Convention lecture. She went on to spend
six months with him on a lecture tour of some 50 Indian branches. Gives
something of his character.
71. Eek, Sven, comp. Damodar: The Writings of a Hindu Chela.
Point Loma, CA: Theosophical University Press, 1940. ix, 338
pp.
Damodar’s writings mainly from The Theosophist 1880-84
arranged according to subject matter such as "Metaphysical and Occult,"
"Historical." An Appendix reprints Judge’s reworking of their
correspondence as "A Hindu Chela’s Diary." Includes item 226.
40 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
7 2 .--------. "Damodar—A Future Adept.” The Theosophist 79:3
(December 1957): 191-98.
Biographical sketch of Damodar’s Theosophical career 1879-1885,
recounting Blavatsky’s predictions for him.
7 3 .--------. "William Quan Judge. A Theosophical Pioneer." The
American Theosophist 50:4 (April 1962): 65-72.
A preprint of the bibliographical sketch of Judge from item 74.
7 4 .--------.Damodar and the Pioneers ofthe Theosophical Movement.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1965, 1978. xvi, 720 pp.
A chronological compilation of the articles of Damodar K.
Mavalankar with his correspondence and in-depth biographies of his
fellow Theosophists. Eek says that he figures as one of the "chief
architects of the early Theosophical Society."
7 5 .----------------- . Biography ofaDisciple: Damodar K. Mavalankar.A
Theosophical Publishing House, 1965. 32 pp.
The initial chapter of item 74 reprinted as a pamphlet.
76. Eek, Sven, and Boris de Zirkoff, comp. William Quan Judge,
1851-1896. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1969.
96 pp.
Judge’s contribution to the Theosophical movement, with a
bibliography of his works, and 12 of his articles.
------- . "William Quan Judge, His Life and Work." In Echoes of
the Orient (item 78), pp. xix-lxviii.
77.
41
The biographical sketch to item 76 slightly expanded. Adds an
Appendix containing Judge’s Will.
78. Eklund, Dara, comp. Echoes of the Orient. Vol. 1. San Diego:
Point Loma Publications, 1975. 582 pp.
Judge’s articles from the Path presented chronologically from 1886
to 1896, along with his "Occult Tales."
7 9 .--------. Echoes of the Orient. Vol. 2. San Diego: Point Loma
Publications, 1980. xiv, 517 pp.
Judge’s contributions to the Irish Theosophist, Lucifer, The
Theosophist, miscellaneous items from the Path, as well as his answers
to questions from the Theosophical Forum and other Theosophical
publications, plus his series "Faces of Friends" from the Path.
Unfortunately the original photos that accompanied this series of
biographical sketches are not always used.
8 0 .--------. Echoes of the Orient. Vol. 3. San Diego: Point Loma
Publications, 1987. xvi, 534 pp.
Reprints tracts and pamphlets by Judge, as well as obscure
newspaper pieces by and about him, and the Eastern School of Theosophy
papers issued by Judge in the 1890s.
8 1 .--------. "Colonel Olcott’s Contribution to Buddhism." The
Theosophist 109:2 (November 1987): 46-51.
Olcott’s work compiling his Buddhist Catechism, lecturing on
Buddhist unity in Japan and for the Maha Bodhi Society in Calcutta, plus
his Fourteen Fundamental Principles of Buddhism as a platform for
Theravada and Mahayana.
42 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
82. Ellwood, Robert S., Jr. "Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky
Journey to the East.” Ch. 5 in Alternative Altars: Unconventional
and Eastern Spirituality in America. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1979, pp. 104-35.
Analyzes the emergence of the Theosophical Society from the
Spiritualist movement, and the motivation of Olcott and Blavatsky in the
context of growing American alternatives to orthodox religion.
83. English, W.A. "H.P.B.’s Opinion of H.S.O.” Mercury (San
Francisco) 4:10 (June 1898): 331-36. Rept. [San Francisco, CA:
Mercury Print, c. 1898.] 7 pp. Rept. in The Theosophist 28:7
(April 1907): 539-43.
Extracts from item 24 stressing Olcott’s character.
84. "The European Press on the Theosophical Mission in Europe."
The Theosophist, Aug., Sept. 1884, pp. 258-60, 294-96.
Notices from the Pall Mall Gazette, Literary World, London
World, Paris Morning News, La Rappel, Le Temps, La Tribune de
Geneva, on Olcott and Blavatsky’s 1884 visit to France and England.
85. "Faces of Friends: Alexander Wilder, M.D." Universal
Brotherhood (New York) 13:5 (August 1898): 263.
Briefbackground on Wilder (1823-1908), the editor of Blavatsky’s
first book, Isis Unveiled, who remained a peripheral figure in the
movement.
86. Farthing, Geoffrey A. "A Look at Col. Olcott’s Peoplefrom the
Other World." The Theosophist 99:5 (February 1978): 135-40.
43
A pastiche from Olcott’s book dealing with phenomena at the
Eddy mediums in Vermont leading up to his meeting with Blavatsky on
Oct. 14, 1874.
87. Felix, Harriet T. "Colonel Olcott and the Eddy Manifestations."
The Theosophic Messenger 13:7 (April 1912): 389-402.
Olcott’s encounter with the mediums William and Horatio Eddy
at their Vermont farmhouse, 1874, adapted from his People From the
Other World.
88. [Freeman, Michael, comp.] ConcerningDamodar K. Mavalankar.
Victoria, Canada: The "H.P.B." Library, [1937]. 108 pp.
Early mimeograph compilation of Damodar’s literary output.
Includes "A Hindu Chela’s Diary" from the Path 1886.
89. "Friends of our Movement." Mercury (San Francisco), Sept.
1898-Apr. 1899.
Short biographies with accompanying photographs of Mrs. Kate
Buffington Davis, George E. Wright, Marie A. Walsh. C.W. Sanders,
A.P. Sinnett, Dr. A. Marques, C.W. Leadbeater, and the Hon. Otway
Cuffe, Gen. Sec. of the European Section.
90. Fullerton, Alexander. Biographical Notes on Col. Olcott.
[N.Y./Chicago: The American Section of the Theosophical
Society, c. 1901.] 20 pp.
Concise sketch dealing extensively with Olcott’s life before the
founding of the T.S., sent to branches of the Society in America for use
by the press in anticipation of his lecture tour.
44 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
9 1 .--------. "Reminiscences of the Early Days of the American
Section T.S.” The Theosophic Messenger 10:2 (November 1908):
33-42.
Fullerton, a former minister, was Judge’s T.S. assistant from
1888, becoming Gen. Sec. of the American Section, Adyar, after the
1895 split. He had met Mme. Blavatsky in London, and had been out to
the headquarters in India. His "reminiscences" are more detailed than
most Theosophical accounts, and convey a vivid sense of the period.
92. Fussell, Joseph H. Incidents in the History of the Theosophical
Movement. Point Loma, CA: The Aryan Theosophical Press,
[1910]. 23 pp. Rev. ed. 1915. 24 pp. 3rd rev. ed. 1920. 36 pp.
History of the movement "Founded in New York City in 1875 by
H.P. Blavatsky, continued under William Q. Judge, and now under the
direction of their successor Katherine Tingley."
93. [Garrigues, John, ed.] "The Theosophical Movement." Theosophy
Magazine (Los Angeles), Feb. 1920-Oct. 1922. Rept. as The
Theosophical Movement, 1875-1925. A History and a Survey. New
York: E.P. Dutton, 1925. xxxii, 705 pp. Rept. as The
Theosophical Movement, 1875-1950. Los Angeles: Cunningham
Press, 1951. xiii, 351 pp.
The history of the Theosophical movement in the 19th century as
written by members of the United Lodge of Theosophists. Described as
"a study of the operation of the law of Karma," the main actors are
H.P.B. and Judge. Olcott is reduced to figurehead who often fails, and
is at odds with Blavatsky. The Esoteric Section was formed by H.P.B.
because the T.S. had proved a "dead failure." Half of the 1925 edition
deals with the events after Blavatsky’s death known as the Judge case.
The 1950 revision drastically pares down the material, and adds two new
chapters on "continuing currents" in the 20th century. Comments on
Olcott’s "injudicious behavior" are toned down, and Annie Besant’s
joining the Society is given a page and a half. The Judge case takes up
only a quarter of the book.
45
94. [Gay, Susan E.] The Life-Work of Mrs. Besant. London: The
Women’s Printing Society, 1913. 36 pp.
M
Many have charged Mrs. Besant with inconsistency and
‘extremes.’ Her life on the contrary was one grand growth and expansion
towards the very principles which theosophy revealed." Mainly a review
of Besant’s Autobiography (item 12). Introduction says it was written 16
years before.
95. Gilbert, S.A. "Colonel Olcott’s Visit to New Zealand." The
Theosophist 53:3 (December 1931): 267-73.
On Olcott’s lecture-tour of New Zealand, Sept. 1897, with Lilian
Edger.
* H. B. M. See Mitchell, Henry Bedinger
96. "H.S. Olcott—PresidentFounder."In The Theosophical Yearbook.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1937, pp. 177-78. 1938,
pp. 156-57. Rept. in The Handbook of the Indian Section, The
Theosophical Society. Varanasi: Indian Section, T.S., 1948, pp.
23-25. 1975, pp. 52-56.
Compact entry of achievements.
97. Haidar, S. "My Experience of the Theosophical Society." The
Maha Bodhi 32:10 (October 1924): 503-7.
Joined the T.S. in 1883 as a college student and was initiated by
Col. Olcott. Believes that "it was a great mistake on the part of H.P.B.
to include occultism in her public programme." Basil Crump replied in
the Dec. 1924 issue, pp. 615-16.
46 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
98. Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus. "William Crookes (1832-1919) and
Occult Chemistry." The Theosophist, June-Aug. 1934.
Crookes’ interest in the occult and its influence on his work told
through letters from the Masters and Blavatsky.
9 9 .------- [Arya Asanga]. "1940—Jubilee Year." The Theosophist
61:6 (March 1940): 532-40.
1940 marked the Diamond Jubilee of the Theosophical Society in
India and Ceylon. Hamerster gives background on the founding of the
first branches in the sub-continent: Bombay T.S. organized April 25,
1880; Galle (Ceylon) May 25, Colombo June 8, Kandy June 13, Lanka
June 17, Panadure June 20, Bentotu June 20, Matara June 28, Welitara
July 10; and the Punjab T.S. (Lahore) Nov 25, 1880.
1 0 0 .--------. "Leaves from the Archives XV. How the Founders and
Damodar became Buddhists and how a Buddhist King became a
Theosophist." The Theosophist 62:6 (March 1941): 500-507.
On H.P.B. and Olcott publicly becoming Buddhists in Ceylon on
May 19, 1880, and (unknown at the time) the King of Siam, privately
joining the Society.
101. Hannon, Ralph. "H.P. Blavatsky and Sir William Crookes:
Influence of the Masters." In Symposium of H.P. Blavatsky*s
Secret Doctrine (item 1128), pp. 24-27.
Sir William Crookes joined the Theosophical Society Nov. 20,
1883. Hannon gives background on his relationship with occult research.
102. Hargrove, Ernest Temple. "The Last Days of W.Q. Judge."
Theosophy 11:2 (May 1896): 34-37.
47
Judge had gone to South Carolina in Oct. 1895, returning to New
York Feb. 3, 1896, hoping for a change of health. Hargrove found him
weaker. They took an apartment at 325 W. 56th St. On Mar. 19th Judge
took a turn for the worse and died two days later.
1 0 3 .--------. An Occultist's Life. New York, May 17, 1896. 7 pp.
Introduces Mrs. Katherine Tingley (1847-1929), the new "Outer
Head" of the Eastern School of Theosophy to members. "What follows
is not Private, but members should not show the paper to non-members,
and should use great discrimination in giving out the facts it contains.H
1 0 4 .--------. "Adepts Shunt Mrs. Kitty. New Outer Head for the
Esoteric School of Theosophy." The Sun (New York), Mar. 13,
1898, p. 4.
Hargrove publically announces that "Mrs. Tingley is no longer the
Outer Head of the ‘E.S.T.,’ is no longer the representative of those who
are called masters or adepts, and the adepts who have already appointed
her successor."
1 0 5 .--------. "Archibald Keightley." The Theosophical Quarterly 28:3
(January 1931): 289-93.
Obituary of Dr. Keightley (April 19, 1859-Nov. 18, 1930), who
helped edit The Secret Doctrine. Gives Blavatsky’s inscription in her
presentation volume to him, "My days are my Pralayas, my nights my
Manvantaras. H.P.B., Feb. 3, 1889."
106. Harris, Iverson L., Jr. "Forgotten Facts of Theosophical History
in America." The Eclectic Theosophist, May 15, 1976, pp. 3-4.
On Katherine Tingley’s "Universal Brotherhood of the
Theosophical Society." On Feb. 13, 1898, Mrs. Tingley formed a new
organization The Universal Brotherhood, the T.S. becoming its literary
48 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
department. The two groups moved their headquarters from New York
in 1900 to Point Loma, California, until 1942.
\ 107. Hartmann, Franz. "Autobiography of Dr. Franz Hartmann." The
Occult Review (London), January 1908, pp. 7-35.
>
1
I Details of Dr. Hartmann’s life. Bom Nov. 22, 1838, Donauwerth,
| Bavaria. Studied medicine at the University of Munich. Left for America
| in 1865 as doctor on an immigrant ship. Went to meet Olcott and
\ Blavatsky in Madras in 1883, arriving Dec. 4. Describes Mme.
| Blavatsky, her phenomena, and the events of the summer of 1884 that
\ caused her downfall. Accompanied Blavatsky to Naples on April 1, 1885.
Gives his subsequent experiences on the fringe of the Theosophical
movement.
* Head, Joseph. See Pope, Joseph
108. Hillard, Katherine [K.H.]. "Why I Became a Theosophist." The
Theosophical Quarterly 7:1 (July 1909): 59-61.
Came across Sinnett’s Esoteric Buddhism in 1884, "which wasjust
then making a tremendous sensation." Corresponded with the author, met
H.P.B. in May 1888, and Judge later the same year.
109. "History of Ownership of the T.S. Headquarters Estate, 1800 to
1892." The Adyar Newsletter, August 1964, pp. 3-4.
Documents the ownership of the Adyar headquarters property
based on titles and deeds from 1800 to 1892.
110. Hodson-Smith, Alfred. "How I Became a Member of the
Theosophical Society." The Theosophical Review n.s. 1:5 (May
1925): 262-65.
49
Read Sinnett’s Esoteric Buddhism in 1884, formed the Harrogate
Lodge in Yorkshire in 1892 with several others. Narrates events of the
1892 T.S. Convention in England.
1 1 1 .--------. "Twenty Years’ Work." The Theosophist, June, July,
Sept., Oct. 1928.
The story of Annie Besant’s activities from 1891 onwards, told in
her own words compiled from The Theosophist, Lucifer, and other
Theosophical journals. The series covered up to the years 1911 by the
Sept. 1929 issue.
* Holloway, Laura. See Langford, Laura Holloway
112. Hotchener, Marie Russak. "Memories of Colonel Henry Steel
Olcott." World Theosophy (Hollywood), Aug. 1932-Feb. 1933.
Mrs. Hotchener, then Mrs. Russak, nursed Col. Olcott during the
last year of his life, and was present at his death-bed. They met in
England early in 1906, and she accompanied him back to India as his
private secretary. On the ship to Italy he slipped and fell down a flight of
fourteen steps. By the time they arrived at Adyar on Dec. 11, 1906, his
condition had worsened. He became unconscious after Feb. 11, and died
early in the morning of Feb. 17. Says that Mahatma M. appeared and
told Olcott to appoint Annie Besant his successor as President of the
Society.
113. Houghton, Frank B. "The Lamasery." The Theosophic Messenger
14:2 (November 1912): 197-98.
Olcott’s comments from Old Diary Leaves I, on the drawings of
their rooms in New York reproduced in A. Rawson’s article in Frank
Leslie's Popular Monthly, Feb. 1892.
50 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
114. "How Adyar Came to be the Home of the Theosophical Society.M
The Adyar Newsletter, August 1963, pp. 3-4.
Short account based on Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves on how the
property known as Huddleston’s Gardens on the bank of the Adyar River
in Madras came to be chosen for the Society’s headquarters.
115. Howell, Basil, ed. The Theosophical Society: The First Fifty
Years. London: Theosophical PublishingHouse, 1925. xiii, 79 pp.
Seven articles and lectures by Olcott, Blavatsky, Besant, and C.
Jinarajadasa, all previously published, on the purpose and work of the
Society. The fourth article, from Olcott’s 1900 Presidential Address, lists
seven fields in which the Society has made a contribution.
116. Hunt, Emma. "Theosophy in a Young Dominion." The
Theosophist 61:4 (January 1940): 365-73.
Early history of the Theosophical Society in New Zealand. There
were members of the Parent Society as early as 1879. E.T. Sturdy, who
joined in 1885, and founded the Wellington Lodge in 1888, went to
London and became a personal pupil of Blavatsky’s. Foreign lecturers
who contributed to the growth of the movement in New Zealand were
Mrs. Cooper-Oakley in 1893, Annie Besant in 1894, Countess
Wachtmeister in 1895, and Col. Olcott in 1897.
117. In Honor of William Q. Judge. Point Loma, CA: The
Theosophical Publishing Company, [1901]. 51 pp.
Reports from the San Diego Union, Mar. 30, 31, Apr. 1, 1901,
of that weekend’s talks at the Fisher Opera House by Katherine Tingley,
E.A. Neresheimer, and other members of her cabinet in response to
Olcott’s recent visit to San Diego. Robert Crosbie’s "Some Facts in the
History of the Theosophical Society" refers to "the immortal three" of the
19th century—H.P. Blavatsky, W. Q. Judge, and Katherine Tingley.
Histories and Biographies 51
* J. V. M. See Van Manen, Johann
118. Jackson, P.E. "Recollections of the Old Dublin Lodge, Ely Place,
in the Years 1891-2-3-4." Theosophy in Ireland (Dublin),
July-Oct. 1938, Jan.-Mar. 1940.
The second installment (Oct.-Dec. 1938) deals with Jackson’s part
in starting the Irish Theosophist, one of the more literary Theosophical
magazines. AE was a major contributor. Daniel Dunlop was editor. The
first issue was out Oct. 15, 1892.
119. Jinarajadasa, C., comp. "Early History of the T.S." The
Theosophist, Mar.-Oct. 1922, Mar.-Aug. 1923, Feb.-Sept. 1924,
Mar.-Oct. 1925.
H.P.B.’s letters to Olcott and Gen. Francis J. Lippitt, extracts
from her entries in Col. Olcott’s diary for 1878, newspaper clippings
relating to the Theosophists in the 1870s, along with Blavatsky’s reply to
item 38 published here as "The Organization of the T.S.," all annotated
by Jinarajadasa in eighteen installments.
1 2 0 .--------, ed. The Golden Book of the Theosophical Society. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House for the General Council of the
Theosophical Society, 1925. xviii, 421 pp.
This "brief history of the Society’s growth from 1875 to 1925"
issued to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of the T.S. features a
chronological diary of events from 1875 to 1925, along with the evolution
of the Society’s objects, and hundreds of faded photographs from the
Society’s archives.
--------, ed. "Esoteric Teachings of T. Subba Row." The
Theosophist, Sept.-Dee. 1925, Jan., Feb. 1926.
52 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Notes of Subba Row’s conversations dealing with rays of
development, the chakras, etc., circa 1886 in Madras, from Sir
Subramania Iyer’s copy.
1 2 2 .------- . "What H.P.B. Thought of C.W. Leadbeater." The
Theosophist 48:5 (February 1927): 515-20. Rept. in Theosophy in
India, Jan.-Feb. 1927, pp. 18-22. Rept. as "What H.P.B. says of
C.W.L." in The Australian Theosophist, Feb. 15, 1927, p. 52,
and Supplement, p. 3.
Background on Leadbeater along with facsimiles of Blavatsky’s
dedications in his copy of The Voice ofthe Silence and Key to Theosophy.
1 2 3 .------- . "Some Documents in the History of the T.S." The
Theosophist 48:6 (March 1927): 651-56. Rept. in the Adyar
Bulletin 20:2 (April 15, 1927): 74-77.
Gives facsimiles of the "original notice of the meeting at which the
Theosophical Society was organized" according to Olcott, Thomas
Edison’s Pledge of Secrecy in the Society, and examples of early
diplomas.
1 2 4 .--------, ed. "Letters of W.Q. Judge." The Theosophist, Jan.-Dec.
1931.
Twenty-three letters from Judge to Olcott covering the period from
Aug. 7, 1877, to his arrival in Bombay, July 15, 1884, from the T.S.
Archives at Adyar.
1 2 5 .--------, acting-editor. "Olcott Centenary Number." The
Theosophist 53:11 (August 1932): 467-692.
Over two hundred historically oriented pages dealing with the
Colonel’s life, illustrated with photographs and facsimiles of the
documents quoted.
53
1 2 6 .--------. "Centenary of Colonel H.S. Olcott." New India (Madras),
Aug. 4, 1932, pp. 4-5. Rept. as "Colonel H.S. Olcott, His Aims
and Ideals." The Theosophist 53:12 (September 1932): 767-71.
Rept. in The Buddhist (Colombo) 37:8-9 (Jan.-Feb. 1967): 207-8.
Resume of Olcott’s life and achievements in India on the occasion
of his birth centenary.
1 2 7 .--------, ed. "Letters of H.S. Olcott to Francesca Arundale." The
Theosophist, Aug. 1932-April 1933.
Miss Arundale, Treasurer of the London Lodge, was a close
friend of Olcott’s. These informative letters from him cover the crucial
years 1884-1886 for the Society.
1 2 8 .--------. "The Founding of the Theosophical Society." The
Theosophist, Nov., Dec. 1932, pp. 218-27, 229-33.
A compilation derived mainly from Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves and
H.P.B.’s Scrapbooks.
1 2 9 .--------. "C.W. Leadbeater’s Theosophical Jubilee." The
Theosophist 54:5 (February 1933): 560-63.
Contains facsimiles of Leadbeater’s Application for Membership,
Nov. 20, 1883, and Obligation. He was elected Dec. 16, 1883 and
initiated Feb. 24, 1884.
1 3 0 .--------. "Mr. Gandhi and the Theosophical Society." The
American Theosophist 32:3 (March 1944): 56.
Furnishes the date of Gandhi’s becoming an Associate Member of
London’s Blavatsky Lodge, T.S.—March 26, 1891—and the pledge taken
by Associate Members. Gives some background on the Lodge and Mr.
Gandhi’s attitude to Theosophy.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1 3 1 .--------. "The Services of Colonel Olcott for Buddhism." The
Theosophist 72:6 (March 1951): 385-93. Rept. Colombo: Daily
News Press, n.d. 8 pp.
Names Olcott’s Buddhist Catechism, his movement for village
schools under the direction of Buddhists, his obtaining Wesak as a
holiday, the Buddhist flag for propaganda, the development of high
schools started by Theosophists into colleges, and Olcott’s attempt to
foster a dialogue between the Buddhists of Ceylon, Burma and Siam, as
examples of his services for Buddhism.
132. Johnson, Paul. "Albert Leighton Rawson." Theosophical History
2:7 (July 1988): 229-51.
Rawson (1828-1902) was a shadowy figure in the early days of the
T.S. He had travelled with Mme. Blavatsky in the Middle East, and
surfaced in New York in the 1870s. He helped initiate the first lodge of
the Society in America in Rochester, N.Y., 1882, but faded out until his
1892 remembrance of Blavatsky in Frank Leslie*s Popular Monthly (item
1121).
133. [Johnston, Charles.] "Colonel Olcott at Home." The Theosophical
Forum (Flushing, N.Y.) 6:10 (February 1901): 182-88.
A description of Madras and the yearly December Convention at
the Theosophical headquarters at Adyar. Reprinted from the Providence
Sunday Journal of 1896.
1 3 4 .------- . "The Theosophical Movement." The Theosophical
Quarterly 5:1 (July 1907): 16-26.
Johnston reviews his twenty-two year participation in the
Theosophical movement in this address delivered at the convention of the
independent Theosophical Society in America, April 1907. Speaks in
detail of Hodgson’s report for the S.P.R. and its impact (it "ushered in
her [H.P.B.’s] greatest and most creative period"), and the Judge case.
55
Defines the Theosophical Society—one of the "expressions” of the
Theosophical movement—as "a state of mind, or rather an attitude of
heart."
1 3 5 .--------. "Reminiscences." The Theosophical Quarterly 16:4 (April
1919): 322-26.
On the contribution of Clement Acton Griscom (d. Dec. 1917) to
the Theosophical movement. Johnston says he was a key figure who aided
Judge during the 1895 "split," and afterwards helped continue the
Theosophical Society in America.
136. "The Joumeyings of Col. Olcott for Theosophy." The Theosophic
Messenger (Chicago) 11:9 (June 1910): 514-22.
Olcott’s travels from his 1874 visit to the Eddy’s in Vermont till
1883 culled from Old Diary Leaves.
137. Judge, William Quan. "Servant of the Masters. Col. Henry S.
Olcott." The Path 3:1 (April 1888): 8-12. Rept. in item 78.
Judge recalls his acquaintance with Olcott from 1875 in New York
and the Colonel’s subsequent achievements in India. "The wisdom of his
selection as President has been vindicated by our history."
1 3 8 .--------. "Faces of Friends." The Path, Jan.-Dee. 1893, Jan.-Dee.
1894.
One or two page biographical sketches with a photograph of the
subject. Featured were: Dr. J.D. Buck, E.B. Rambo, Abner Doubleday,
Jerome Anderson, Allen Griffiths, T. Subba Row, Bertram Keightley,
Archibald Keightley, G.N. Chakravarti, Countess Wachtmeister, H.
Dharmapala, G.R.S. Mead, Claude Falls Wright, George E. Wright,
Tookeram Tatya, James Pryse, Isabel Cooper-Oakley, E. Aug.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Neresheimer, E.T. Hargrove, R. Jagannathiah and T.A. Swaminatha
Aiyar. Partially reprinted in item 79.
1 3 9 .--------. "Historic Theosophical Leaves." The Path 9:1 (April
1894): 1-3.
Facsimile and transcript of the first entry of the Minute Book of
the Theosophical Society, Sept. 8, 1875, and the minutes for Sept. 13
(misnumbered 18) and Nov. 17.
1 4 0 .--------. The Truth About East and West. N.p., n.d. 4 pp. Kept, in
The Path 10:1 (April 1895): 1-5. Rept. in item 78.
Judge states that Theosophy is a Western plant, and that "It is the
destiny of the West to raise the East from its darkness, superstition, and
ignorance, to save the world."
1 4 1 .--------. "Historical Sketch of the Theosophical Society." New
England Notes (Boston) 1:4 (April 27, 1895): 1-6. Rept. in Report
ofProceedings, Ninth Annual Convention, American Section T.S.
and First Convention, Theosophical Society in America, Boston,
April 28-29, 1895. New York: T.S. in America, 1895, pp. 18-24.
Rept. as "The Theosophical Society." The Path 10 (May 1895):
55-60.
"Historical Sketch" read to the delegates at the 1895 American
Section Convention who decided to declare their autonomy. Says that the
T.S. founded in N.Y., Sept. 8, 1875, by some 18 people,"never had any
legal existence outside of the United States," but has had a continued
descent in America. The American delegates represent the original body
and are therefore free to decide their manifest destiny, to be shown by
electing W.Q. Judge permanent President of the Theosophical Society in
America. The version in the Path, also in item 79, has been considerably
toned down.
57
* K. H. See Hillard, Katherine
142. Keightley, Bertram. "Faces of Friends" [Jasper Niemand]. The
Path 9:1 (April 1894): 14-17.
"Jasper Niemand" was the pseudonym of Mrs. Julia Wharton
Lewis Campbell Ver Planck Keightley, a Theosophical writer who
married Bertram’s nephew Dr. Archibald Keightley.
143. Keightley, Julia [Jasper Neimand]. "William Q. Judge." The Irish
Theosophist, Feb.-May 1896. Rept. in Letters That Have Helped
Me. Vol. 2. Radlett, Herts: T. Green, 1905, pp. 105-19. Rept. as
"Biographical Notes" in Letters That Have Helped Me. Los
Angeles: The Theosophy Company, 1946, pp. 261-71.
Biographical sketch written while Judge was still alive. States that
he met Blavatsky at "40, Irving Place" [1875] after writing Olcott "for
the address of a good medium." The version in volume 2 of Letters That
Have Helped Me has been condensed. The Theosophy Company
"semicentennial edition" reprints the account from the Irish Theosophist.
1 4 4 .--------. The Future of the Theosophical Publishing Co. [New
York: The Author,] Feb. 27, 1898. 35 pp.
Prints the Will of W.Q. Judge, May 12, 1891, bequeathing the
publishing part of his business to Mrs. Keightley, then Mrs. Campbell
Ver Plank, and E. August Neresheimer, and the correspondence between
them relating to the division of the company.
145. Khandalavala, N.D. "Hypatia and Annie Besant." The Theosophist
16:4 (January 1895): 247-54.
Compares Annie Besant’s career with that of the Neo-Platonic
martyr Hypatia. "According to the Secret Doctrine it generally takes
about 15 centuries for a soul to reappear again on earth, and after a little
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
more that 14 centuries, we find a soul similar to that of Hypatia taking
birth in Annie Besant....The coincidence is remarkable."
1 4 6 .--------. "Some Reflections Regarding the Theosophical
Movement." The Theosophist 29:1 (October 1907): 30-36.
Replies to Sinnett’s "Vicissitudes ofTheosophy" (item 235), which
attempts to correct Theosophical "mythology" by stating that Olcott and
Blavatsky simply "drifted to India." Khandalavala gives Sinnett’s earlier
statements to the contrary, as in his 1886 Incidents where "her [HPB’s]
Theosophical mission appears to have had India as its prime objective
point from the outset." Adds that "If any mythological beliefs have been
created regarding the Theosophical movement, Mr. Sinnett, in a large
measure, has helped to bring them about."
147. Kimura. Shotaro. "A Memory of Colonel Olcott." The Adyar
Bulletin 18:2 (February 15, 1925): 57.
Brief recollection of a T.S. Convention at Adyar by one of the
earliest Japanese members of the Society.
148. Knoche, Grace Frances. "Our Directives: A Study of the
Evolution of the ‘Objects of the T.S.’ from 1875 to 1891." The
Theosophical Forum 25:10 (October 1947): 582-87.
The evolution of the Society seen through the transformation of its
objects, from seven in 1879, to four in 1881, to the standard three by
1882.
1 4 9 .------- . "A Salute to William Quan Judge." Sunrise 35:4
(April-May 1986): 157-60.
Overview of Judge’s achievements, from his founding the Path
magazine in N.Y., 1886, to the participation of the American Section in
the World Parliament of Religions, 1893.
Histories and Biographies 59
150. Kuhn, Alvin Boyd. Theosophy: A Revival of Ancient Wisdom.
New York: Henry Holt, 1930. ix, 381 pp.
Published as Volume 2 of the American Religion Series, Kuhn’s
history supplies one of the best introductions to the Blavatsky era of the
movement. It is one of the few studies that offers any comprehensive
account of the teachings of the group. Originally submitted as part of
Kuhn’s doctoral work at Columbia University in New York.
151. Kunz, Fritz. "Early Theosophical Days." World Theosophy, Oct.,
Nov., 1931, pp. 759-91, 856-58.
What the New York newspapers—the Tribune, Sun, Graphic
1874-75—said about Col. Olcott and Mme. Blavatsky. Says the Tribune,
Sept. 26, 1872, has the story of a Russian noblewoman arriving in New
York by steerage. [Tribune checked—no reference found.]
152. [Langford, Laura Holloway.] "Extracts from Letters Written by
William Q. Judge from London, and Paris in the Spring of 1884
to a longtime friend." The Word (New York), Mar., Apr. 1912,
pp. 324-32, 17-24.
Judge’s letters from London, while waiting for Olcott and
31avatsky to arrive from India, tell of dining on vegetables at the
Sinnetts, visits to the British Museum and Albert Memorial. At the end
)f March 1884, Mme. Blavatsky, Col. Olcott, and Mohini Chatteiji,
irrived in Paris. Judge was at the station to meet them. Writes about
Vlohini, the Masters, H.P.B.’s sudden exodus to London. "In the
noming I have coffee and bread; at 1 o’clock, rice; at 6, dinner of
vegetables." Suffers deep depression.
--------. "William Quan Judge, A Reminiscence." The Word 22:2
(November 1915): 74-89.
153.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
On Judge’s reunion with H.P.B. and Olcott in Paris and his going
to India in 1884. Langford, then Mrs. Holloway, says she told Olcott and
Blavatsky that Judge would go to Adyar but not stay.
1 5 4 .--------. "Colonel Olcott, A Reminiscence." The Word 22:1
(October 1915): 7-19.
Meeting Olcott in New York in 1906, Mrs. Langford says he told
her in conversation that he had "wronged Judge, not wilfully or in
malice," and regrets it.
155. Leadbeater, Charles Webster. "The London Lodge, T.S." In the
Proceedings ofthe First Annual Convention ofthe T.S. in Europe,
London, July 9-10, 1891, pp. 36-38. Rept. in Theosophical
History 1:8 (October 1986): 224-26.
The London Lodge was constituted in June 1878 as The British
Theosophical Society, with C.C Massey its first President. Dr. Anna
Kingsford suggested the change of name as the London Lodge during her
Presidency in 1883. A.P. Sinnett was elected President Jan. 7, 1885, and
remained at its head till the turn of the century. After the formation of the
Blavatsky Lodge in London in 1887, the London Lodge carried on as a
private autonomous group. Leadbeater was Secretary.
1 5 6 .--------. "Faithful Unto Death." In the Souvenir of Twenty-Second
Annual Convention, American Section, Theosophical Society,
Chicago, September 13, Nineteen-Hundred-Eight, in honor oj
Colonel Henry Steel Olcott. Chicago, 1908. 8 pp.
Furnishes Olcott’s incarnations from "a million years ago" in
Atlantis, to that of King Gashtasp of Persia, and King Asoka of India.
"His own wish is to take another body quickly, so as to work along with
Madame Blavatsky in her present incarnation."
61
1 5 7 .--------. "Theosophical Worthies." The Theosophist, May 1909,
Nov., Dec. 1910, July 1911.
Henry Steel Olcott, Damodar K. Mavalankar, and T. Subba Row,
whom Leadbeater met at Adyar in Dec. 1884, and the High Priest of
Adam’s Peak in Ceylon, H. Sumangala, who received him into Buddhism
in 1884.
1 5 8 .--------. "Reminiscences." In The Inner Life, Vol. 2. Adyar: The
Theosophist Office; Chicago: The Rajput Press, 1911. 2nd ed.
1912, 1922, pp. 373-83.
Recalls his initial contact with the Masters through the mediumship
of William Eglinton and the voyage out to Adyar with Blavatsky and their
stay in Cairo en route. Mentions her ability to speak Arabic. Repeated in
detail in item 159.
1 5 9 .--------. "How Theosophy Came To Me." The Australian
Theosophist. Aug.-Oct., Dec. 1928, Feb., Sept. 1929. Rept.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1930, 1948, 1967, 1975,
1986. vii, 162 pp.
Chronicles his early interest in Spiritualism, his meeting Mme.
Blavatsky in 1884, and the voyage out to India with her. Begins: "My
first touch with anything that could definitely be called Theosophy was
in the year 504 B.C." Ends in 1885. In the Feb. 1929 Australian
Theosophist installment Leadbeater revealed that Olcott had reincarnated
as the son of Arthur E. Powell, a prominent Theosophist.
1 6 0 .----- . "Colonel Olcott as a Companion." The Theosophist 53:12
(September 1932): 764-66.
Leadbeater spent 47 days with Olcott travelling through thejungles
D
f Ceylon in a bullock cart as a young man, says he got to know him
Dretty well. Describes his character.
62 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1 6 1 .------- ."Dr. Besant’s First Use of Clairvoyance." The Theosophist
54:1 (October 1932): 11-13.
Letter from Leadbeater to Francesca Arundale, August 25, 1895,
on Besant’s learning to use her astral vision, "which is not only a never-
ceasing delight to her, but a great help to me, as I have now another
person to help to check my recollection of things."
162. "Leaves ofTheosophical History." The Theosophical Forum (Point
Loma, CA.), June 15, 1932-Nov. 1937, Oct. 1939-Nov. 1941.
Letters from H.P.B. to Judge, Judge to members and the press,
and Abner Doubleday to members. This series, including Fussell’s "Inner
Group," Apr. 1940-Apr. 1941 (item 823), ran through 87 issues of the
magazine.
163. Leslie-Smith, Leslie. 100 Years of Modern Occultism. London:
Theosophical History Centre, 1987. vi, 69 pp.
The first half of this "personal appraisement of the period," pagef
1-32, covers the nineteenth century. It is a brief review of the mail
events in the life of the Theosophical Society, and was commissioned b)
the General Council of the T.S., Adyar, for the centenary of 1975, bu
was not published at the time.
164. "Letters From the Archives." The Theosophical Forum (Poin
Loma, CA), Feb.-June, Nov., Dec. 1944, Feb., Apr., Sept. 1945
Feb., Apr., May 1946.
Mainly comprised of letters from Judge.
165. Lovell, John W. "Reminiscences of Early Days of th(
Theosophical Society." The Canadian Theosophist, Mar. 15-Aug
15, 1929.
63
Rambling first-hand account of the New York days of the Society
by one of its earliest members, who joined Sept. 23, 1875; also covers
Mabel Collins whom Lovell published, and Annie Besant’s visits to New
York. Among the early American Theosophists dealt with are: Henry J.
Newton, George Felt, Charles Sotheran, Judge, Gen. Abner Doubleday,
James Pryse, Laura Holloway, Julia Campbell Ver Plank (Jasper
Niemand). Initially prepared as a talk at the N.Y. Lodge, Nov. 6, 1928.
Excerpts were published in the American Theosophist, Nov. 1946, pp.
241-42.
166. M. G. "Wilhelm Hubbe-Schleiden." The Theosophist 32:7 (April
1911): 115-19.
Dr. Hubbe-Schleiden (1846-1916) served as the first President of
the Germania T.S., organized 1884, and edited the German monthly
Sphinx for the decade 1886-96.
167. M. J. B. "Dr. Amni Brown." Universal Brotherhood (N.Y.) 13:2
(May 1898): 91-93.
Obituary of Dr. Ami Brown, whojoined the Society in 1876. Died
Mar. 8, 1898 in Boston. Includes portrait sketched by Judge.
168. Mead, G.R.S. nThe Quest—Old and New: Retrospect and
Prospect." The Quest (London) 17:3 (April 1926): 289-307.
Mead explains his membership in the T.S. since 1884, and his
reason for resigning in 1908. He founded the now defunct Quest Society
in 1909.
169. Mitchell, Henry Bedinger [H.B.M.]. "Charles Johnston." The
Theosophical Quarterly 29:3 (January 1932): 206-11.
During the 46 years of his connection with the Theosophical
movement, Johnston (1867-1931) contributed 16 articles to The
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Theosophist, 27 to Lucifer, 15 to the Irish Theosophist, 20 to the Path,
8 to Theosophy, 53 translations to the Oriental Dept. Papers, 53 to the
Theosophical Forum, and 242 to the Theosophical Quarterly. He married
H.P.B.’s niece, Vera Zhelihovsky, in Aug. 1888.
170. Morris, R.A.V. "The Tingley Succession." The Canadian
Theosophist 8:8 (October 15, 1927): 172-75.
Questions Julia Keightley’s 1896 statement (rept. in the July
Canadian Theosophist from item 2039) that "as early as June, 1894, Mr.
Judge told me of the standing of the present Outer Head in the School,
and spoke of her work at that time and for the future." Morris maintains
that "the story that Mr. Judge appointed Mrs. Tingley as his successor
originated with E.T. Hargrove."
171. "Mrs. Annie Besant in Bombay." Supplement to the Theosophic
Gleaner (Bombay), April 1894. 15 pp.
Speeches to and by Annie Besant during her first visit to Bombay,
Mar. 15-22, 1894.
172. Murdoch, Hugh S. "The First Member of the T.S. in Sydney.
Professor John Smith—M.D., hon LLD, M.L.C., C.M.G."
Theosophical History 3:1 (January 1990): 6-14.
Prof. John Smith (1821-1885), of the University of Sydney,
became the 16th Australian member of the Theosophical Society. He met
Blavatsky and Olcott in Bombay in 1882 and provided an account of a
test for phenomena devised by him. This article traces his transit through
Theosophy and his interests.
173. Murphet, Howard. Hammer on the Mountain. Life of Henry Steei
Olcott (1832-1907). Wheaton, IL: Theosophical PublishingHouse,
1972. xii, 339 pp. Rept. as Yankee Beacon of Buddhist Light.
Wheaton: Quest Books, 1988. xii, 345 pp.
65
The life and times of Col. Olcott told in a chronological
progression with no indication of sources. No analysis is attempted of
Olcott’s contribution to Theosophy or South Asian Buddhism and
education. Appendix D and E are copied unacknowledged from the Olcott
centenary number of The Theosophist, Aug. 1932.
174. Neff, Mary K. "Colonel Olcott’s Nilgiri Home ‘Gulistan.’" The
Theosophist 51:3 (December 1929): 277-99.
Olcott’s decision to buy a property at Ootacamund in the Nilgiri
Hills "as a sanitorium for us all," told through the entries in his diary for
1888 and the 1890s.
1 7 5 .--------. "First Contact of the Lives of the Founders and Annie
Besant." The Theosophist 55:2 (November 1933): 184-93.
Annie Besant’s comments in the National Reformer, June 18,
1882, on Olcott’s lectures reported in the Madras freethoughtjournal The
Philosophic Inquirer.
1 7 6 .--------. A Guide to Adyar. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1934. vi, 36 pp.
Historical outline of the growth of the Adyar headquarters of the
Theosophical Society, with digressions by Annie Besant, H.S. Olcott, J.
Krishnamurti, and others. Gives plan of the ground floor of the
headquarters building in 1882.
1 7 7 .--------. "How Many Objects Has The Theosophical Society?" The
Theosophist 56:8 (May 1935): 115-19. Rept. in The American
Theosophist 23:6 (June 1935): 122-23, 132.
A compilation from early by-laws and Olcott and Blavatsky’s
statements.
66 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1 7 8 .--------. How Theosophy Came to Australia and New Zealand.
Sydney: Australian Section, Theosophical Society, 1943. xi, 99
pp.
It came out of the correspondence between William H. Terry,
editor of the Melbourne Spiritualist weekly Harbinger ofLight, and Mme.
Blavatsky in Bombay in 1881, according to this presentation, which
continues to Mrs. Besant’s 1895 lecture tour and the formation of the
Australian Section of the Society. Miss Neff, an American, was a former
Gen. Sec. of this Section.
179. Neill, S.J. [The Hunted]. The History of a Heresy Hunt by the
Hunted. The Thames, New Zealand: Thames Star Office, 1894.
72 pp.
Narrates the persecution of Rev. Neill as a result of his profession
of belief as a Theosophist.
180. Neresheimer, Emil August. "Some Reminiscences of William Q.
Judge." Typescript. Feb. 24, 1932. 15 pp.
Neresheimer, a New York diamond merchant, had been an
important financial contributor to the T.S. in America and continued his
support to Katherine Tingley. He met Mrs. Tingley through Judge’s
introduction in the fall of 1893. Speaks of her cognizance of T.S. matters
though not actively involved, her methods of occult training, and her
assuming the position of Outer Head of Judge’s E.S. after his death in
1896. Neresheimer, who was Judge’s executor and who went through his
papers with C.A. Griscom and E.T. Hargrove, says Judge left nothing
naming Mrs. Tingley as his successor.
181. Neufeldt, Ronald W. "A Lesson in Allegory: Theosophical
Interpretations of the Bhagavadgita." Ch. 1 in Modern Indian
Interpreters of the Bhagavadgita, ed. by Robert N. Minor.
Albany: State University of New York Press, 1986, pp. 11-33.
Histories and Biographies 67
The allegorical method of interpreting the Gita used by
Theosophists T. Subba Row, Mohini Chatteiji, Judge, Annie Besant, and
Charles Johnston.
182. [Olcott, Henry Steel.] Preamble and By-Laws of the Theosophical
Society. [New York: The Theosophical Society, 1875.] 20 pp.
Rept. in the Theosophical Forum 9:5 (November 1936): 338-48.
The earliest publication issued by the Theosophical Society.
Olcott’s enduring legacy to the Society.
1 8 3 .--------. Christians vs. Theosophists. A Report of the New Pantura
Controversy, compiledfrom the most authentic sources. Pandure,
Ceylon: Published by the Buddhist Branch of the Theosophical
Society, 1880. 24 pp.
Prints correspondence between Olcott and J.R. Pieries,
Headmaster of the S.P.C. Mission School, to arrange a debate between
the Christians and Theosophists at Panadure, and its outcome.
1 8 4 .--------. Theosophy: Its Friends and Enemies. Bombay: Printed at
the Industrial Press, 1881. 26 pp.
"An Address delivered at Framji Cowasji Institute, Bombay,
February 27, 1881, at a Public Meeting to Celebrate the Second
Anniversary of the landing in India of the Founders of the Theosophical
Society." Olcott responds to criticism raised against the Theosophical
Society during its first year in India.
1 8 5 .--------, D.M. Bennett, and A. Banon. The Whole Truth About the
Theosophical Society and its Founders. Bombay: K.M. Shroff,
[1882]. 64 pp.
"Being a Report of the Proceedings at a Public Meeting held at the
Framji Cowasji Institute, Bombay, on the 20th of January 1882, called
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
to hear the Society’s Answer to recent public aspersions by Mr. Joseph
Cook, Missionary Lecturer, of Boston, U.S.A. Also (by request) a
reprint of Col. Olcott’s Lecture on ‘The Civilization that India Needs’;
and ‘A Few Words to Ladies desiring tojoin the Theosophical Society.’"
Contains documents on Olcott’s background.
1 8 6 .------- . "Swami Dayanand’s Charges." Extra Supplement to The
Theosophist (Bombay), (July 1882): pp. 1-9. Rept. Lahore,
[1882]. 48 pp.
The Theosophists account of their relationship with the Arya
Samaj supported by copies of their New York correspondence.
1 87.--------. "Death of T. Subba Row, B.A., B.L." The Theosophist
11 (July 1890): 576-78. Rept. as "A Sketch of the Life of the Late
T. Subba Row." The Theosophist 108:6 (March 1987): 239-41.
Obituary of T. Subba Row (July 6, 1856-June 24, 1890). He
broke out in boils in April 1890; when Olcott saw him in June, he was
"a mass of sores from crown to sole." Biographical data and his
importance to the movement.
1 8 8 .--------. "The First Leaf of T.S. History." The Theosophist 12:2
(November 1890): 65-70.
Olcott’s "First Anniversary Address" as President of the T.S.
delivered in N.Y., Oct. 4, 1876.
1 8 9 .------- . "Annie Besant’s Indian Tour." The Theosophist 15:7
(April 1894): 442-49. Rept. in Lucifer 14 (April 1894): 166-71.
First-hand account of the triumphs and achievements of Besant’s
first Indian tour comprising 121 public addresses and covering 6,500
miles.
69
1 9 0 .--------. "Old Diary Leaves." The Theosophist, Mar. 1892-Dec.
1906.
Olcott commenced this "series of historical reminiscences of the
T.S. and H.P.B. under the title of ‘Old Diary Leaves’" (as his Diary of
Jan. 16, 1892 describes it) in response to what he perceived to be the
mythology growing "up around the memory of H.P.B. and her
literature." He proceeded to do this for over a decade in monthly
installments in The Theosophist. Six volumes were issued from the series
which ended with the year 1898. Edited volumes should be compared
with the magazine. The Adyar T.P.H. 1941 edition of item 192 contains
a useful chart showing what was added or deleted in that volume.
1 9 1 .--------. "T.S. Solidarity and Ideals." The Path 9:7 (October
1894): 201-7. Rept. in The Theosophist 16:2 (November 1894):
87-92. Rept [Madras, 1894.] 8 pp. Rept. in The Theosophist 53:11
(August 1932): 640-47.
The President-Founder’s vision of the work of the Society, the
function of its constitution, and the historical unfolding of the movement.
Gives the reason for going to India, "A Theosophical Society with its
base outside India would be an anomaly; that is why we went there."
1 9 2 .--------. OldDiary Leaves. First Series. New York: G.P. Putnam’s
Sons, 1895. xi, 491 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1941. xxiv, 491 pp. 1974. xv, 490 pp. Rept. as Inside the
Occult: The True Story of Madame H.P. Blavatsky. Philadelphia:
The Running Press, 1975.
"Since I am to tell the story of the birth and progress of the
Theosophical Society, I must begin at the beginning and tell how its two
founders first met." Tells of his meeting with Mme. Blavatsky in 1874,
their work among the Spiritualists, the subsequent development of the
T.S., which is given in detail, his eyewitness account of the writing of
Isis Unveiled\ and the terminology it brought into existence. Ends with
their departure for India in 1878. Especially noteworthy is Olcott’s
70 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
description of the first public cremation in America paid for by the
Society.
1 9 3 .--------. Executive Notice. London: Theosophical Society, Sept. 7,
1895. 4 pp. Rept. in the Supplement to The Theosophist, October
1895, pp. i-iii.
Reprints the minutes of meetings of the Society, July 16, 1877,
and Aug. 22, 1878, empowering the President to transfer the
headquarters to any country where he might be in residence, to form
branches, and induct members into the Society. Has valuable comment
by Olcott on how this was applied when they transfered their sphere of
activity to India in 1879.
1 9 4 .--------. "Death of Lady Caithness." The Theosophist 17:3
(December 1895): 183-85.
Association of Marie, Lady Caithness, Duchess de Pomar (1830-
1895), with the Theosophical Society in France. "Soon after the
appearance of Isis Unveiled, H.P.B. received a most enthusiastic letter
from the Countess about the book, offering her friendship and inviting us
to pay her a visit on our way to India, rumours of which journey had
reached Europe. From that time on, correspondence has been kept up
between her ladyship and ourselves and our relations have continued
unbroken."
1 9 5 .--------. A Historical Retrospect—1875-1896—of the Theosophical
Society. Madras: Published by the Society, 1896. 32 pp.
The historical part of Olcott’s 21st Anniversary Address before the
Society, Dec. 27, 1896, giving the full text of a number of documents
relating to its history. Replies to item 141 justifying the autonomy of the
Society in America.
Histories and Biographies 71
1 9 6 .--------. Old Diary Leaves. Second Series. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1900. x, 476 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1928. ix, 476 pp. 1954, 1974. xii, 476 pp.
Starts with the voyage out to India in 1879, settling in Bombay,
tours of North India and Ceylon, meeting the Sinnetts, and A.O. Hume
at Simla, the first visit to South India, and the removal of their
headquarters to Madras in 1883.
1 9 7 .--------. "Theosophy and Theosophists." Overland Monthly (San
Francisco) 37:5 (May 1901): 992-98. Rept. in The Adyar Bulletin,
Nov. 15, Dec. 15, 1925, pp. 307-10, 337-41.
The Society’s achievements at the completion of its first quarter
century. By 1900, 607 branches had been chartered and members existed
in 42 countries. Olcott gives seven areas where he feels the Society has
made a contribution.
1 9 8 .--------. Old Diary Leaves. Third Series. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1904. viii, 444 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1929. viii, 446 pp. 1972. viii, 460 pp.
Meeting Mahatma K.H. at Lahore with W.T. Brown, Nov. 1883.
Olcott’s Buddhist Mission to the Home Office in England on behalf of
Sinhalese Buddhists, 1884; the London Lodge election and Anna
Kingsford; the "Coulomb Missionary Conspiracy"; departure of Damodar
for Tibet and HPB for Europe in 1885; the founding of the Adyar
Library; and Blavatsky’s new magazine in London, 1887.
1 9 9 .--------. Old Diary Leaves. Fourth Series. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1910. ix, 521 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1931. ix, 557 pp. 1975. ix, 537 pp.
Lecturing in Japan for Buddhism; his growing conflict with
Blavatsky over the running of the Society, and the formation of her
72 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Esoteric Section; the arrival of Annie Besant, whom he met in 1889, and
the departure of Blavatsky in 1891.
2 0 0 .------- . Old Diary Leaves. Fifth Series. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1932. vii, 531 pp. 1975. vii, 507 pp.
The impact of Mrs. Besant’s first Indian tour of 1893, and the
events of the "Judge case" and the American "secession" of 1895. Closes
with Judge’s death in 1896.
2 0 1 .--------. Old DiaryLeaves. Sixth Series. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1935. viii, 423 pp. 1975. viii, 403 pp.
The years 1896 to 1898 that end Olcott’s "Diary Leaves" are ones
of reconstruction and consolidation for the Theosophical Society. Sixty-
seven new branches were added in 1897, bringing the number to 402.
2 0 2 .--------. "Diary of Colonel Olcott, 1878." The Theosophist 55:3
(December 1933): 304-9.
Entries from Olcott’s New York diary for Jan. 8 to Feb. 13, 1878.
Additional entries are by Mme. Blavatsky.
203. Old, Walter R. [Sepharial]. "Horoscope of H.S. Olcott, P.T.S."
The Theosophist 15:2 (November 1893): 113-16.
"The arc of life reaches to a point between the 23 October and 5th
November 1915." Olcott died Feb. 1907.
2 0 4 .--------. "The Horoscope of Annie Besant." The Theosophist 15:4
(January 1894): 219-24.
"Annie Besant will live to her 60th year, but will not reach her
60th birthday." She lived to be 86.
Histories and Biographies 73
205. "Oriental Theosophy. A Message from the Brooding East." New
York Daily Tribune, Nov. 28, 1886, p. 10. Rept. in the
Supplement to The Theosophist, February 1887, pp. lxxxi-iv.
Rept. London: Women’s Printing Society, n.d. 12 pp.
Lengthy interview with Mohini Chatteiji on relations between East
and West, Christianity, socialism, and misconceptions about the
Theosophical Society.
206. Palmer, Sarah E. "Memories of Colonel Olcott." The
Theosophical Worker, April 1938, pp. 103-5.
A talk given at Adyar, Feb. 17, 1938. Miss Palmer came to India
in 1898 to help the Colonel with his Panchama Schools. She retired after
half a century of teaching.
207. Peacocke, C.L. "The London Lodge of Theosophy." Letter to the
Editor, The Occult Review (London), March 1928, pp. 187-88.
Announces that the London Lodge has withdrawn from the T.S.
for the second time during its existence. Peacocke gives the history of the
Lodge and its autonomous status with the Society.
208. Peterson, Adeltha Henry. "The Making of a President of the
Theosophical Society." The Theosophist 57:11 (August 1936):
394-401. Rept. in The Adyar Library Bulletin 12 (February 1948):
1-13.
Quotes Olcott’s list of duties for the President of the T.S.: he must
live at Adyar, develop the Library, keep up The Theosophist, push on the
educational work in Ceylon and South India. Mrs. Peterson gives Olcott’s
background and achievements as fulfilling these requirements.
209. Philaletheia [pseud.]. Some Footprints on my Path to Theosophy.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1894. 20 pp.
74 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Reading the Light of Asia led her to Esoteric Buddhism and the
Occult World. Joined the London Lodge at the beginning of 1889.
"Topics discussed were Karma, Reincarnation, Devachan, etc." Attended
Blavatsky’s cremation at Woking; describes the service in the Chapel.
Became a member of the Blavatsky Lodge because "there was so much
practical work going on there in which I felt a desire to join."
210. Pope, Joseph, and Anita Atkins [Joseph Head and S.L. Cranston].
"The Theosophical Movement and the Reincarnation
Renaissance." Ch. 7 in Reincarnation: The Phoenix-fire Mystery.
New York: Julian Press, 1977, pp. 484-555.
Laudatory presentation of the Theosophical movement and its
founders composed of quotes from influential admirers of the movement,
with extracts from the works of Blavatsky and W.Q. Judge on the subject
of reincarnation.
211. Price, Leslie. "The 1882British Crisis." Theosophical History 2:2
(April 1987): 73-79.
Letter from C.C. Massey, Oct. 1882, on the resignation of Dr.
George Wyld, July 2, 1882, as President of the British T.S. Part of
Price’s "S.P.R. Archives" series.
212. —-----. "Theosophy’s Influence in the British Isles." The
American Theosophist 75:10 (November 1987): 364-70.
The development ofTheosophy inEngland, from the establishment
of the British Theosophical Society in 1878 and its vicissitudes as the
London Lodge under the leadership of Anna Kingsford and A.P. Sinnett.
213. Pryse, James Morgan. "Greatest of the Exiles." The Canadian
Theosophist 9:7 (September 1928): 212-13.
75
On the Theosophical writer Mabel Collins Cook who died in 1927.
Pryse says her antagonism against H.P.B. was later resolved, and she
rejoined the Society.
2 1 4 .--------. "Random Notes." The Canadian Theosophist 20:6 (August
15, 1939): 182-83.
Notes on Mrs. Besant’s printing office in London, the magazine
Lucifer's financial distress, Mrs. Cleather and erysipelas.
215. Psaltis, Lina. "Theosophy and the Revival of Buddhism in Sri
Lanka." Theosophical Network (San Diego, CA), no. 1 Winter
1985, pp. 1-2.
This material comes from a larger study of Theosophy, Blavatsky,
and the Indian Renaissance, left by Psaltis in near-final draft form at her
death in 1981.
216. Raja, C. Kunhan. "How the Adyar Library was Founded." The
Adyar Library Bulletin 1 (February 17, 1937): 6-16.
Written to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Adyar
Library founded by Col. Olcott. Quotes from the Pioneer, and Olcott’s
lecture on the need for such a venture as a prelude to a revival of interest
in Indian literature. Includes a photograph of the Indian religious
representatives who officiated at the opening in 1886.
217. Ramanujachary, N.C. "T. Subba Row, The Secret Doctrine, and
Madame H.P. Blavatsky." Theosophical History 2:3 (July 1987):
96-103. Rept. in TACT (Madras) nos. 3-4 (1990): 10-17.
Presents the career of the South Indian Vedantin scholar T. Subba
Row (1856-1890) in relation to Blavatsky’s. "His occult status was
considered to be almost the same as Madame Blavatsky’s."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
218. Rangaswami Aiyar, A. "From Twilight to Dawn. XIV." The
Adyar Bulletin 7:7 (July 15, 1914): 289-93.
The series "From Twilight to Dawn" recounted the reasons that
led various members tojoin the Theosophical Society. Rangaswami, who
became a member in 1896, gives the Indian response to Theosophy in the
1880s.
219. Ransom, Josephine. A Short History of the Theosophical Society.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1938, 1989, pp. 1-339.
Theosophical history written with a shovel. Mrs. Ransom covers
from 1875 to 1937 with a brief and all too hurried reference to relevant
material in the Adyar T.S. Archives. According to the author, the
Theosophical movement in the 19th century can be divided into three
"well-marked" phases: from its inception in 1875 to 1884, from 1885 to
1891, and 1892 to 1907.
2 2 0 .--------. "The Origin of Lodges." Theosophical News & Notes
(London), March-April 1943, pp. 12-13. Rept. in The Canadian
Theosophist 24:3 (May 15, 1943): 84-87.
Originally each new branch of the Theosophical Society was called
a "Society," i.e., the British T.S., the Bombay T.S. After becoming
President, Anna Kingsford substituted the term Lodge. Gives the
development of the objects which defined the field of endeavor for the
early lodges.
2 2 1 .--------. "T. Subba Row Garu." The Theosophist 77:10 (July
1956): 233-40.
Mainly on his four-fold classification based on the Taraka Raja
Yoga system, as opposed to Blavatsky’s septenary division.
Histories and Biographies 77
222. Reddy, B. Ranga. "A Trip from Adyar in 1882." Adyar Notes and
News, June 7, 1928, pp. 4-5.
When the Founders were in Madras in 1882 arranging the
purchase of their permanent headquarters, they were invited to Nellore
to start a lodge there. Reddy who met them at the time describes some
incidents of thejourney. H.P.B. asked members to start a Sanskrit school
which by 1928 had become a college.
223. Reigle, David. "Theosophy and the Golden Dawn. ” The American
Theosophist, 66:5 (June 1978): 155-61. Rept. in The Canadian
Theosophist 59:4 (Sept.-Oct. 1978): 79-82, 87-89.
Contrasts the work of the Theosophical Society and Blavatsky’s
Esoteric Section with that of S.L. Mathers’ Hermetic organization the
Golden Dawn started in London March 1888.
224. Roger, John. "Colonel Henry Steel Olcott: The First American
Buddhist, 1832-1907." The Golden Lotus (Philadelphia), Oct.,
Nov. 1961, pp. 171-74, 195-97.
Awards Olcott the place of "an out-standing Pioneer in Buddhist
renaissance, and a great man of the American people."
225. Ryan, Charles J. "Correspondence Relating to Alleged Collapse
of the T.S. at the Close of the 19th Century." The Theosophical
Forum 10:4 (April 1937): 292-308.
Letter to H.R.W. Cox, B.C., Canada, on "Mrs. Cleather’s belief
that the last link between the Theosophical Society and the Masters had
been broken when H.P. Blavatsky passed away."
--------. "Biographical Notes." In Damodar: The Writings of a
Chela, comp, by Sven Eek (item 71), pp. 3-22.
226.
78 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"Damodar’s significance in the Theosophical Movement lies
largely in the fact that he became a high exemplar of the Theosophical
life in spite of extraordinary difficulties, and that almost alone among
hundreds of other earnest aspirants was he found qualified to proceed to
the Tibetan mountain-home of the Founders of the Theosophical Society,
Mahatmans Koot Hoomi and Morya."
2 2 7 .--------. "H.P.B.’s Tribute to Light on the Path." The
Theosophical Forum (Covina, CA) 22:9 (September 1944):
419-20.
Commentary on a letter from Blavatsky to John Ransom Bridge,
c. Nov. 1889, where she discusses the fall of Mabel Collins Cook and the
"Occult Venom and close relationship to Tantrika Black Magic" of Rule
20 of Cook’s Light on the Path. The full text of H.P.B.’s letter is printed
in the Oct. 1944 Theosophical Forum, pp. 471-74.
228. Satyanarayana, Pemmaraju. Origin and Beginnings of the
Theosophical Society. Narsapur, India: Issued by P. Tammiraju,
Vasista Theosophical Lodge, 1975. 32 pp.
Extracts from the first three volumes of Old Diary Leaves
covering the meeting of Olcott and Blavatsky in Vermont in 1874 to their
work in India until 1885.
229. Sellon, Emily B., and Renee Weber. "Theosophy and the
Theosophical Society." Ch. 11 in Modern Esoteric Spirituality, ed.
by Antoine Faivre and Jacob Needleman. New York: Crossroad,
1992, pp. 311-29.
Overview of the history of the Theosophical Society introduces
Theosophical epistemology: Cosmic Mind, Evolutionary Theory,
Hierarchy of Being, the role of humanity, Karma and Reincarnation.
19
230. Sen, Norendranath. "The Founders of the Theosophical Society."
In A Guide to Theosophy, ed. by Tukaram Tatya (item 1789), pp.
33-38.
"An Address at a public meeting in Bombay at Framji Cowasja
Hall." "I have watched them very closely, and have had many
opportunities ofjudging of their character, their motives and their labors;
and I can tell you most confidently that at this moment, India cannot have
better and more sincere friends than these persons." Sen was editor of the
Calcutta Indian Mirror.
* Sepharial. See Old, Walter R.
231. Severs, Elizabeth. "Henry Steel Olcott." Ch. 14 in Some Noble
Souls. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1910, pp. 299-
317.
Olcott’s life based on Besant’s pamphlet (item 15) and
Theosophical obituaries at the time of his death in 1907. Says that his life
story after he founded the Theosophical Society "is that of the Society;
the two are one and cannot be disjoined."
232. Shearman, Hugh. "History of the Theosophical Society." Ch. 2-3
in Modern Theosophy. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1952, 1954, pp. 11-43.
The origin and early years of the Theosophical Society, the move
to India, and afterwards till Mme. Blavatsky’s death, are outlined. The
author believes that "The Theosophical Society as it exists today is to a
very large extent Colonel Olcott’s creation."
233. Sinha, Ramjivan. 100 Years of the Theosophical Society &
Theosophy. Patna: The Bihar Theosophical Federation, [1976]. 16
pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Historical and philosophical overview of the function of the
Theosophical Society with special emphasis on India.
234. Sinnett, Alfred Percy. "Healing the Sick." Light (London), June
9, 1883, p. 267.
On the "very remarkable cures that have lately been effected in
India by Colonel Olcott." Quotes a testimonial from the Indian Mirror of
Apr. 27, 1883, and adds his own account. Credits the Adepts behind the
Theosophical movement for Olcott’s success with mesmeric healing.
2 3 5 .--------. "The Vicissitudes of Theosophy." Broad Views (London)
8 (August 1907): 94-105.
Replying to an article by George Batlow in the Contemporary
Review, Sinnett claims that the publication of his own books "represented
for the West a new development of thought" which has become known
as Theosophy. If only Mme. Blavatsky had stayed in India. Replied to by
item 146.
2 3 6 .--------. The Early Days of Theosophy in Europe. London:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1922. 126 pp.
The history of Sinnett’s association with Theosophy in India and
England reinforced by extracts from documents no longer extant, such as
the Minute Books of the early British Theosophical Society and London
Lodge, and the 29 volumes of diaries kept by Mrs. Patience Sinnett.
Published posthumously. Reviewed by items 4, 440, 780.
* --------. The Autobiography ofAlfred Percy Sinnett. Cited as item
1447.
A more personal version of item 236, giving his career before his
association with Theosophy and his continuing attempts to keep in touch
with the Masters after relations cooled with Blavatsky. The original typed
81
manuscript was dated June 3, 1912, with a ten page addendum covering
the years 1916-1920.
237. A Sketch of the Theosophic Organization. Compiled from the
‘Theosophist’ and Official Reports. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1889. 20 pp.
The achievements of the T.S. till 1889 with extended consideration
of the attacks on the Society, especially that of the Coulombs. Pointing
to the work of Mme. Blavatsky, "a Russian," and Col. Olcott, "an
American," it announces, "thus, in the very inception of the Theosophic
organization, woman leads the way, she points out to man his duty."
238. Smith, Henry. "William Q. Judge." The American Theosophist
49:10 (October 1961): 201-2.
Brief synopsis of Judge’s life stressing his position as "a
co-founder of the Society and the first President of the Theosophical
Society in America."
239. [Smythe, Albert E.S.] "William Quan Judge." The Canadian
Theosophist 17:1 (March 15, 1936): 1-3.
Smythe evaluates Judge’s contribution to Theosophy on the fortieth
anniversary of his passing. Describes meeting Judge in 1884, who was
returning from India, and the eleven days they spent on board the
Wisconsin from Liverpool to New York.
2 4 0 .--------. "Judge, the Wise Helper." The Canadian Theosophist 21:1
(March 15, 1940): 36-37.
Prints two letters from Judge to T.P. Hyatt, June 15, 1895, and
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
241. Steiger, Isabelle de. Memorabilia. Reminiscences of a Woman
Artist and Writer, ed. by A.E. Waite. London: Rider & Co.,
[1927,] pp. 144-95, 234-302.
Reminiscences of her life in London during the 1880s and
meetings with Blavatsky, Anna Kingsford, the Sinnetts and their circle,
including Mohini Chatterji. Like her paintings, vivid but not always
accurate.
242. Studd, Samuel. "How I Came into Theosophy." The Australian
Theosophist, June 15, 1927, pp. 222-24.
His doctor lent him a copy of Sinnett’s Occult World in 1887 and
then Esoteric Buddhism, but only after hearing Annie Besant lecture in
Melbourne in 1894 did he join the Society.
2 4 3 .--------. "Reminiscences of Col. Olcott." The Theosophical Worker
(Adyar) 4:8 (August 1939): 194.
Notes of an anecdotal nature relating to Olcott’s visit to Melbourne
in 1897.
244. Subramania Iyer, M. "The Theosophical Society and the Esoteric
Section." The Theosophist, April, July 1934, pp. 91-96, 458-64.
Rept. in The American Theosophist 22:5 (May 1934): 104-5, 113.
Argues that the Esoteric Section organized by Blavatsky in 1888
grew out of the original impulse of the Theosophical Society to
investigate unexplained laws of nature and powers latent in man.
245. Subramania Iyer, Sir S. "Colonel H.S. Olcott." The Theosophist
29:4 (January 1908): 370-71 Rept. in The Adyar Library Bulletin
16:1 (Feb. 17, 1952): 1-3.
83
Tribute paid at the unveiling of Col. Olcott’s statue, Dec. 7, 1907.
Sir Subramania Iyer, who met Olcott in 1882, contrasts India at the time
of Olcott’s arrival when Indian philosophy was "looked upon as the
lifeless remains of bygone superstitions," with the work accomplished by
Theosophists in the Indian renaissance.
246. Taffinder, Adelia H. "Damodar K. Mavalankar." The American
Theosophist 15:3 (December 1913): 162-66.
More than twenty-eight years have passed since Damodar left for
the Master’s ashram. "It is stated by good authority that he is waiting for
the time when he shall be sent forth into the world to do his Master’s
will." Gives a short sketch of his life, and reprints extracts from a letter
of his, Jan. 8, 1883, in The Theosophist, Dec. 1908.
247. Thacker, Elizabeth Lorelei. "Mahatma Gandhi and the
Theosophical Movement." The Canadian Theosophist 64:5
(Nov.-Dee. 1983): 97-106, 117-18.
Survey of Gandhi’s comments on Theosophists and the role they
played in his life. Never a member of the Society, he did become an
associate member of the Blavatsky Lodge, London, on March 26, 1891,
for six months.
248. "The Theosophical Party from India in Paris." The Indian Mirror
(Calcutta), April 27, 1884.
Account sent from Paris, May 31, 1884, on the progress of the
Theosophical delegation of Olcott, Blavatsky, and Mohini Chatteiji,
detailing their arrival in Marseilles, March 13, on to Nice and then Paris
as the guest of the Duchess de Pomar and the eminent people met in her
salon.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
249. Theosophical Club, Point Loma. "How the Theosophical Society
came into being." Theosophical Forum 11:5 (November 1937):
324-36.
Extracts and summations from various Theosophical sources—
Sinnett’s Incidents, the Mahatma Letters, ODL—presented by the
Theosophical Club, Point Loma, on the 65th anniversary of the T.S.
Concludes: "The Society was established in the West to promote
Brotherhood and Good-will among men by throwing a ray of spiritual
light into darkness, to arouse men to a recognition of their own inner
divinity."
250. Theosophical Society, American Section. Report of Proceedings
and Documents: The Theosophical Congress held by the
Theosophical Society at the Parliament ofReligions, World's Fair
of 1893, at Chicago, III., September 15, 16, 17. New York:
American Section T.S., 1893. 195 pp.
While serving as a Report on the Theosophical Congress held in
conjunction with the World Parliament of Religions, this volume is itself
a historical document. Aside from the ethical talks on Theosophical tenets
by main speakers, Annie Besant, Judge, Gyanendra Chakravarti of India,
and J. Buck, it contains papers which tell a great deal about the
movement’s relation to the time period. See Henrietta Muller’s
"Theosophy and Woman," Jerome Anderson’s "Reincarnation as Applied
to the Sex Problem," and Claude F. Wright’s "The Theosophical Society
in its Organizated Life, Organization, Methods of Work, Propaganda,"
which lists the number of schools operated under the T.S. in India and
Ceylon. Reprints the informational leaflet sent to members on
"Theosophy at the World’s Fair."
251. The Theosophical Society in America. A History of Theosophy and
the Theosophical Society. Wheaton, IL: The Theosophical Society
in America, [1948]. Rev., ed. [1953]. 94 pp.
Histories and Biographies 85
A study course in the history of the Society circulated by the
American Section of the T.S., Adyar. Taken mainly from Josephine
Ransom, item 219, but the biographies of the leaders are original.
252. "The Theosophical Society in America, History." Theosophical
Quarterly 5:4 (October 1908): 446-47.
Account of the group that followed E.T. Hargrove in 1898 as The
Theosophical Society in America. Says they alone represent the
continuation of the original impulse of 1875.
253. Tingley, Katherine. The Crusade of American Theosophists
Around the World. Report. [New York: The Theosophical Society
in America, 1897.] 8 pp. Rept. 16 pp.
Tingley’s report of the Theosophical Crusade which left New
York, June 13, 1896, returning at San Francisco, Feb. 1897. The reprint
adds the San Diego Union notice of Feb. 24th on the laying of the
corner-stone for Tingley’s projected School for the Revival of the Lost
Mysteries of Antiquity, Feb. 23, 1897, at Point Loma. The Crusade
"carrying a message of brotherly love from country to country" stopped
at Liverpool, London, Bristol, Clifton, Southport, Middlesborough,
Halifax, Glascow, Edinburgh, Bray, Limerick, Dublin, Paris,
Amsterdam, Berlin, Geneva, Interlaken, Zurich, Hallein, Venice, Udine,
Rome, Naples, Athens, Cairo, Bombay, Daijeeling.
254. "Twenty-five Years’ Growth, an Outline of the History of the
Theosophical Society." The TheosophicMessenger (San Francisco)
2:2 (November 1900): 17-30.
Review of the growth of the Theosophical Society from 1875 to
1900, with information on the development of the Sections around the
world, centers in America, connected groups like the "Golden Chain" for
children, and short biographies and photographs of Blavatsky, Olcott,
Besant, Sinnett, Bertram Keightley, C.W. Leadbeater, and G.R.S. Mead.
86 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
255. Twenty-five Years of the Blavatsky Lodge, T.S., Bombay.
[Bombay, c. 1905.] 48 pp.
Talks and reminiscences on the occasion of the silverjubilee of the
Blavatsky Lodge, Bombay, organized Apr. 23, 1880.
256. Van Manen, Johann [J.v.M.]. "Senor Don Jose Xifre." The
Theosophist 32:12 (September 1911): 897-99.
Xifre (pronounced Sheeffray), 1846-1920, played a leading role
in the development of Theosophy in Spain; among his many achievements
was a translation of Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine into Spanish. Quotes
conversation with H.P.B. delaying his departure which saved his life.
257. Venkatasiva Rao, Digavalli. "Swami T. Subba Row." The
Theosophist 107:1 (October 1985): 9-11.
Short outline of T. Subba Row’s life from the author’s longer
serial in Telugu printed during 1959 in the Krishna Patrika of
Masulipatnam, India.
258. "W.Q. Judge: Biographical Notes." Los Angeles: United Lodge
of Theosophists, 1992. 42 pp.
Year by year listing of the main events in the life of William Quar
Judge (1851-1896) with bibliography of his writings.
259. Wachtmeister, Countess Constance. "How I Joined the
Theosophical Society." Mercury (San Francisco) 3:6 (Februar)
1897): 161-63.
Repulsed by the idea of a cruel God, the Countess became
interested in Spiritualism after the death of her husband. Read Isu
Unveiled and joined the Theosophical Society in 1881. Says she hac
Histories and Biographies 87
evidence of the existence of the Mahatmas before meeting Mme.
Blavatsky.
260. Wadia, K.J.B. Fifty Years of Theosophy in Bombay. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1931. x,152 pp.
A history of the Theosophical Society’s oldest surviving Lodge,
the Bombay T.S., now called the Blavatsky Lodge.
2 6 1 .--------. "Four pillars of the Theosophical Society." The Young
Theosophist (Ahmadabad), December 1932, pp. 5-10.
The lives of Blavatsky, Olcott, Besant and Leadbeater.
262. Wadia, Sophia. "William Quan Judge—A Lover of India." The
Kaiser-l-Hind, March 21, 1937, pp. 3,7.
Judge’s life in special relation to his 1884 visit to India and his
contribution to the promotion of Oriental culture in America.
263. White, Charles S.J. "Henry Steel Olcott: A Buddhist Apostle."
The Theosophist 94:7 (April 1973): 28-41. Rept. in The American
Theosophist 71:2 (February 1983): 35-38, 53-56.
Depicts Olcott as "a strikingly effective agent for the promulgation
of the religious truth in whose terms he lived out his long and industrious
life."
264. Whitney, Elizabeth. "Pictures on the Screen of Time. A Brief
Outline of the History of the Theosophical Society." Theosophical
Forum, May 1936-Jan. 1937.
Miss Whitney, who died in 1941, became a member in New York
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
in 1892 and came out to Point Loma in 1899. She spent the last ten years
of her life compiling her history of the movement made up of extracts
from early Theosophical works. Installments cover 1873-79, 1879-85,
1885-91, 1891-98, and the "closing cycle of 1897-98."
265. Wickremeratne, L.A. "Religion, Nationalism, and Social Change
in Ceylon, 1865-1885." Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of
Great Britain & Ireland no. 2 (1969): 123-50.
Wickremeratne marks the visit of Olcott and Blavatsky to Ceylon
in 1880 and the psychological effect of their championing Buddhism as
"a very real turning point" in the Buddhist revival and the nationalist
movement that it engendered. Cites Olcott’s work to bring together the
various opposing Buddhist sects that existed on the island.
2 6 6 .--------. "Annie Besant, Theosophism and Buddhist Nationalism in
Sri Lanka." The Ceylon Journal of Historical and Social Studies
n.s. 6:1 (Jan.-June 1976): 62-79.
Records the shift of Theosophical attitudes towards Theravada
Buddhism after Olcott’s death. While the Founders of the Society had
openly supported Buddhism, Annie Besant, who succeeded Olcott as
President, was more involved with Hinduism and the cause of Indian
nationalism. Describes the friction this caused, contrasting it with work
of another Theosophist, Dharmapala, for Buddhism in India.
2 6 7 .--------. "Olcott, Sri Lankan Buddhism, and the British Raj." The
American Theosophist 68:4 (April 1980): 68-77.
In 1967 a statue of Col. Olcott was unveiled by the Governor-
General and various ministers of state in the heart of Colombo. Cites the
causes for Olcott’s survival as one of the few Westerners remembered in
Sri Lanka from the colonial period. Quotes a letter from Olcott to the
U.S. Secretary of State in Washington, D.C., 1880, on conditions in Asia
as he found it.
Histories and Biographies 89
2 6 8 .--------. "How Sri Lanka Remembers Henry Steel Olcott." The
American Theosophist 69:2 (February 1981): 28-29.
Note on the Government of Sri Lanka special celebrations on May
17, 1980 to commemorate the centenary of the first of seventeen visits to
the island by Olcott.
2 6 9 .--------. "An American Bodhisattva and an Irish Karmayogin.
Reflections on Two European Encounters with Non-Christian
Religious Cultures in the Nineteenth Century." The Journal of the
American Academy of Religion 50:2 (June 1982): 237-54.
"In spite of formidable odds," Olcott and Besant were accepted as
part of the Buddhist and Hindu community. Comments on the "Hindu
ethnocentrism" and Buddhist attitudes they had to overcome, and their
eventual "religious indigenization." Olcott came to be regarded as a
bodhisattva by Sri Lankan Buddhists, and was invested with the
Brahmanical thread by a Hindu pundit. Besant’s "devotion and
idealization of Hindu culture put to shame many an orthodox Hindu."
270. Willard, Cryus Field. Introduction, Ch. 2, 9-15, of his j
"Autobiography." Typescript, 1938. 207 pp. I
Willard, who worked as a reporter for the Boston Globe, describes
his association with Theosophy mainly during the 1890s. He joined the
Boston Branch T.S. in 1889. Met Besant on her first American tour of !
1891, and "sized her up as a very ambitious woman....To prevent the j
Society from being wrecked by this woman’s ambition, it [was] necessary j
to declare [the American Section’s] autonomy from the Society whose j
Headquarters was then at Adyar, India." Ends in 1900, and was written j
when Willard was 80. j
2 7 1 .--------. "Some Old Boston Bones." Letter to the Editor, The
Canadian Theosophist, Dec. 15, 1939, pp. 301-3.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Corrects the editor’s statement that Robert Crosbie, George Ayers,
and Louis Wade, were the "big figures" at the American Section
Convention of 1895 that voted for autonomy. "Ayers and Wade, ‘yes,’
but Crosbie decidedly not."
2 7 2 .------- . "Early Days of Theosophy." The Canadian Theosophist
21:4 (June 15, 1940): 123-25.
Letter to W.F. Sutherland. In 1886 Charles Sotheran in New York
suggested that Willard meet Judge. "I found him to be of medium height,
with a short cropped beard, pale of face, with very clear grey eyes." As
a reporter in Boston, Willard met Bertram Keightley and Annie Besant.
273. Wilson, Gail. "Our Fiftieth Anniversary." The Messenger
(Chicago) 13:6 (November 1925): 103, 115-16.
Covers the events leading to the organization of the Theosophical
Society from Sept. 7 until Nov. 17, 1875, as described in the first volume
of Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves.
274. Wolleb, Theo. G. "A Brief History of the Golden Gate Lod
j Mercury 5:2 (October 1898): 72.
I
| The development of Theosophy on the Pacific Coast through the
Golden Gate Lodge, chartered in Oakland in 1885, moving to San
j Francisco in 1888.
275. Wright, Claude Falls, C.M., S.V.E., I.C.O., and E.K.
"Theosophical Activities. London Letter." The Path, Dec.
1890-Sept. 1892.
Activities at the London headquarters reported to the American
members. Installment ofJune 1891 contains a description of the last hours
of Mme. Blavatsky. Series was later changed to "Mirror of the
Movement."
Histories and Biographies 91
276. Wright, George E. "The Parliament of Religions. Incidents of the
Congress." Lucifer 13 (October 15, 1893): 160-64.
2 7 7 .--------. "Incidents of the Theosophical Congress." The Path 8:8
(November 1893): 239-45.
Wright narrates the almost insurmountable difficulties faced by
Theosophists to gain representation at the 1893 Chicago World
Exposition. Shuffled from committee to committee for six months, they
were suddenly informed that the Religions Committee had unamimously
decided to grant the Society its own Congress during the World
Parliament of Religions of Sept. 1893.
278. Wright, Leoline Leonard. "Recollections of a Theosophical
Speaker." Theosophical Forum, Sept., Dec., 1938, May, Sept.
1939.
Mrs. Wright’s parents were Theosophists and their home in
Chicago served to entertain visitors to the Theosophical Congress at the
1893 Parliament of Religions. Mentions Dharmapala, who represented
Southern Buddhism, Gyanendra Chakravarti, the Brahmin delegate for
Hinduism, Mr. Judge, Annie Besant, and other prominent Theosophists.
She married Theosophist Claude Falls Wright, and their wedding in New
York in 1896 served as the first public appearance of Katherine Tingley
in connection with Theosophy.
279. Zirkoff, Boris de. "H.P. Blavatsky and Col. H.S. Olcott in 1883."
Theosophia (Los Angeles) 6:5 (Jan.-Feb. 1950): 12-13.
Claims that the year 1883 was an important one for the
rheosophical movement for it "saw a culmination of what might be
looked upon as the relatively peaceful period in the expansion of the
Society, to be followed very soon by serious troubles and obstacles."
jives the main events—transference of the headquarters from Bombay to
\dyar, Madras, Olcott’s tours of North India and Ceylon, and his
neeting of Mahatma K.H. at Lahore in Nov. 1883.
92 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
2 8 0 .--------. "Seventy Five Years Ago." Theosophia 7:3 (Sept.-Oct.
1950): 10-13.
Facsimile of the Sept. 8, 1875 minutes of the founding of the
Theosophical Society with brief biographies of those present, taken from
Ransom’s Short History (219).
2 8 1 .------- . "William Quan Judge—A Founder." Theosophia 17:4
(Spring 1961): 3-7. Rept. in The Dream That Never Dies. San
Diego: Point Loma Publications, 1983, pp. 85-90.
Calls for recognition of Judge as one of the Founders of the
Theosophical Society.
2 8 2 .--------. "A Hundred Years Ago." Theosophia, Fall 1973-Summer
1975, Summer 1977, Spring 1978.
An eight part series covering events from 1873 to the publication
of Isis Unveiled in 1877.
2 8 3 .------- . "William Quan Judge: His Occult Status." Theosophia
31:4 (Spring 1975): 3-7.
"The individual known under the name of William Quan Judge
was a Hindu initiated disciple, a Yogi as a matter of fact, who had taken
over the body of an Irish boy by means of occult avesa or tulku, i.e.
transference of consciousness, when the boy died of typhoid fever."
B. By Non~Theosophists
284. Ahlback, Tore. "Theosophy and Socialism in Finland: An
Unsuccessful Coup d’Etat at the Beginning of the Century."
Temenos (Helsinki, Finland) 21 (1985): 39-54.
93
The greater part of this article covers developments in Theosophy
in Finland around 1902, but the introduction traces events back to 1889
and the founding of the T.S. in Sweden by Gustaf Zander.
285. Ahlstrom, Sydney E. "Piety for the Age of Aquarius: Theosophy,
Occultism, and Non-Western Religion." Ch. 61 in A Religious
History of the American People. New Haven, Conn.: Yale
University Press, 1972, pp. 1040-41.
Theosophy in America in the 19th century is defined by
Blavatsky’s activities in New York and elsewhere.
286. Albertson, Edward. Ch. 1-2, 4, in Theosophy for the Millions.
Los Angeles: Sherboume Press, 1971, pp. 11-21, 31-38.
Madame Blavatsky, Colonel Olcott, their meeting in America and
removal to India, sketched as an introduction to the tenets of Theosophy.
287. Amarasuriya, M.P. "Colonel Olcott and the Buddhist Revival." In
Colonel Olcott. His Service to Buddhism. Kandy, Sri Lanka:
Buddhist Publication Society, 1981, pp. 21-33.
On Olcott’s association with prominent Buddhists in Sri Lanka
including the Yen. Migettuwatte Gunananda.
* Anstey, F. See Guthrie, Thomas Anstey
288. Archbold, William Arthur Jobson [W.A.J.A.]. "Kingsford, Mrs.
Anna." In The Dictionary ofNational Biography, ed. by Sir Leslie
Stephen and Sir Sidney Lee. Vol. 11. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1921, pp. 174-75.
Dr. Anna Bonus Kingsford (1846-1888), a pioneer British woman
doctor, was President of the British Theosophical Society for 1883/84.
94 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
This entry focuses mainly on her public career and the causes she
espoused.
289. Atkins, Rev. Gauis Glenn. "The Return of the East Upon the
West: Theosophy and Kindred Cults." Ch. 9 in Modern Religious
Cults and Movements. New York: Fleming H. Revell Co.;
London: George Allen & Unwin, [1923], pp. 245-83.
Mainly philosophical ruminations. Calls Theosophy a "Tour de
Force" of the Imagination. Rev. Atkins was minister to the First
Congregational Church, Detroit, Mich.
290. Bachchan, Harbans Rai. "Mohini Chatteiji and Tagore." Ch. 2 in
W.B Yeats and Occultism. Delhi: Motilal Banarsidas, 1965, 1974.
pp. 14-71.
Impact of meeting the young Indian chela, Mohini Chatteiji
(1858-1936), who accompanied Mme. Blavatsky to Europe in 1884, on
Yeats’ work. Says Mohini introduced Yeats to Hindu drama through the
works of Kalidasa.
291. Ballard, Anna. "The Theosophical Convention."Harper's Weekly,
March 5, 1887, p. 166.
Dated Jan. 24, 1887, Madras, Miss Ballard gives a description ol
the religious representatives at the inauguration of the Adyar Library
Includes their picture.
292. Barrett, Sir William F. "Obituary: C.C. Massey." Journal ofthi
Societyfor Psychical Research 12 (June 1905): 95-99.
Massey (1838-1905) was one of the original founding members o
the Theosophical Society, though Barrett does not mention thi
connection. He was the first President of the Society in England, bu
Histories and Biographies 95
resigned his membership in 1884. The obituary deals instead with his
contribution to the British study of psychical research.
293. Barrington, Rev. A.H. "Theosophy.” In Anti-Christian Cults.
Milwaukee, Wis.: The Young Churchman Co., [1898], pp.
66-107.
"An Attempt to show that Spiritualism, Theosophy and Christian
Science are Devoid of Supernatural powers and are contrary to the
Christian Religion." Section on Theosophy describes its origin and
purpose, and its leading doctrines and false position in relation to
Christianity. Book has a four page recommendation by the Bishop of
Milwaukee.
294. Bates, Ernest Sutherland [E.S.B.]. "Judge, William Quan." In the
Dictionary of American Biography, ed. by Dumas Malone. Vol.
5. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1933, pp. 233-34.
Interpretative profile of Judge’s life. "Although apparently not
adverse to trickery, he was of genuinely mystical temperment and
believed thoroughly in the occult teachings of theosophy."
2 9 5 .--------. "Olcott, Henry Steel." In the Dictionary of American
Biography, ed. by Duman Malone. Vol. 7. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 1934, pp. 10-11.
"While traces of the charlatan remained with him till the end—seen
in the occasional trick, learned from Madame Blavatsky, of invoking the
authority of the Mahatmas for his own plans—nevertheless his genial
kindness of heart and genuine love of things spiritual made him in the
long run, a friend of humanity."
2 9 6 .--------. "Tingley, Katherine Augusta Westcott." In the Dictionary
of American Biography, ed. by Dumas Malone. Vol. 9. New
York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1936, pp. 561-62.
96 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Standard biographical entry. Says her abilities "lay mainly in the
field of organization."
297. Bednarowski, Mary Farrell. "Outside the Mainstream: Women’s
Religion and Women Religious Leaders in Nineteenth-Centur>
America." Journal of the American Academy of Religion 48:2
(June 1980): 221-31.
The segment on the Theosophists examines the outlets the
movement offered women in the last century. "Theosophy afforded them
the opportunity of exercising spiritual leadership equal to that of men."
Gives the examples of Blavatsky and Besant.
2 9 8 .------- . "Women in Occult America." Ch. 8 in The Occult in
America, ed. by Howard Kerr and Charles L. Crow. Urbana and
Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1983, pp. 177-95.
The influence of the pro-feminist attitude of the Spiritualis
movement on later groups like the Theosophists.
299. Bond, George D. "The Early Revival and Protestant Buddhism.'
Ch. 2 in The Buddhist Revival in Sri Lanka. Religious Tradition
Reinterpretation and Response. Columbia, S.C.: University ol
South Carolina Press, 1988, pp. 48-57.
Olcott’s role strenghtening the laity in the Buddhist movemem
through leadership and Buddhist education, and Dharmapala’s early worl
with the Maha Bodhi Society influenced by his association witl
Theosophy.
300. Bowman, Arthur H. "The Vacant Throne of India—Christ, oi
Materialism, or Theosophy." Ch. 9, Part 2, in Christian Though
and Hindu Philosophy. Vol. 2. London: The Religious Trac
Society, 1917, pp. 258-89.
Histories and Biographies 91
Bowman claims that in India "Hinduism, which so long has
reigned supreme, can never do so again; its system has been for ever
discredited." Analyses the claims of Theosophy based on Farquhar (324),
Ewing (323), etc. "The whole story is a fabrication from beginning to
snd. Not one shred of reliable evidence has ever been discovered to
support it."
301. Boyd, Ernest A. "The Dublin Mystics." Ch. 10 in Ireland's
Literary Renaissance. New York: John Lane, 1916. Rept. New
York: Barnes & Noble, 1968, pp. 212-52.
"The Dublin Lodge of the Theosophical Society was as vital a
factor in the evolution of Anglo-Irish literature....It formed a
rallying-ground for all the keenest of the older and younger intellects,
from John O’Leary and George Sigerson, to W.B. Yeats and AE."
302. Braden, Charles Samuel. "Theosophy." Ch. 6 in These Also
Believe. A Study ofModern American Cults and Minority Religious
Movements. New York: Macmillan, 1949, 1967, pp. 221-38.
Narrates the history of Theosophy in terms of Blavatsky’s life,
based on the presumption that "Whatever the truth about her character,
there is no doubt that Theosophy owes more to Helena P. Blavatsky than
to any other person in its founding and as the channel through which most
3f its teaching has come."
303. Bright, Mrs. Charles. "Interviews with Prominent Spiritualists.
Mr. W.H. Terry." The Harbinger of Light, August 1, 1904, pp.
8485-88.
Terry, the founder-editor of the Melbourne Harbinger of Light,
vas one of the earliest members of the Theosophical Society in Australia,
oining in March 1880. Provides biographical material.
98 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
304. Britten, Emma Hardinge. Nineteenth Century Miracles.
Manchester and New York: William Britten, [1884], pp. 296-304,
437-43. Rept. New York: Amo Press, 1976.
Although the Theosophical Society is mentioned in the chapters on
Spiritualism in India and America, Mrs. Britten, at whose home in New
York some of the formative meetings were held, makes it clear that the
Theosophists do not represent the Spiritualist viewpoint. Mentions Baron
de Palm’s funeral where she delivered an oration, and the occult work
she edited in 1876, Art Magic. Says she remained a member of the
Society’s first Council as long as it existed "on its original lines."
j 3 0 5 .------- . "The Theosophical Society: Its Origin and Founders."The
Two Worlds (Manchester), June 5, 12, 19, 1891, pp. 346-48,
359-60, 369-70.
Recounts the origin of the Society mainly from Mrs. Britten’s
letters to the Spiritualist press of the time.
306. Burfield, Diana. "Theosophy and Feminism: Some Explorations
in Nineteenth-Century Biography." Ch. 3 in Women's Religious
Experience, ed. by Pat Holden. London: Croom Helm; Totowa
NJ: Barnes & Noble Books, 1983, pp. 27-56.
Focuses on some of the ways "women with feminist aspirations
used the Theosophical movement as a means to express and realize theii
needs and beliefs." Biographies of Dr. Anna Bonus Kingsford (1846-88)
Isabelle de Steiger (1836-1927), and Isabel Cooper-Oakley (1854-1914)
are used to explore this relationship as "leaders, loners, and disciples.'
Situates the Theosophical Society in England in the context of the 1880s
307. Campbell, Bruce F. Ancient Wisdom Revived: A History of thi
Theosophical Movement. Berkeley: University of California Press.
1980. x, 249 pp.
99
Tries to cover the impact, in the East and West, made by the
Theosophical movement and its ramifications during the last 100 years.
Defaults on the history of the movement by too easy an acceptance of
second hand sources, but the questions raised in the second part of the
book relating to the dilemmas and inherent conflicts sometimes created
by Theosophical positions should be taken into consideration. Reviewed
by item 1254.
308. Carrithers, Walter A. [Adlai Waterman]. "The Founding of the
Theosophical Society." N.p., [1975], pp. 6-20.
The founding of the Society culled from the first volume of
Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, and Corson’s Some Unpublished Letters of
HPB, as an "Epilogue" to an abridged edition of Olcott’s 1875 Inaugural
Address.
* Cheiro. See Hamon, Louis
309. Clarke, Fr. Richard, S.J. Theosophy: Its Teaching, Marvels, and
True Character. London: Catholic Truth Society, 1892. 90 pp.
Reprinted from The Month (London), Jan.-Mar. 1892. "To put the
matter in plain English, Theosophy is a false anti-Christian, godless
system, teaching doctrines subversive of all belief and true morality, and
putting forward as its credentials wonders which are neither more nor less
than simple devilry." Replied to by Annie Besant, Theosophy and the
Society of Jesus (1483), and Herbert Burrows’ Theosophy and
Catholicism (1556).
310. Clifford, Terry. "The Master List." The New Age Journal,
September 1976, pp. 23-36.
The development of the occult and New Age movement in
America, including the part played by Blavatsky, the Theosophists, and
the 1893 World Parliament of Religions. Illustrated.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
311. Coleman, William Emmette. "Spiritualism and the Wisdom
Religion. An Historical Sketch." The Carrier Dove (San
Francisco), May-Dec. 1891. Rept. Bombay, n.d. 15 pp.
The early history of the T.S. from the meeting of Olcott and
Blavatsky in 1874, to their leaving for India in 1878. Tries to prove that
the Founders were Spiritualists who turned against Spiritualism.
3 1 2 .------- . "Critical Historical Review of the Theosophical Society."
Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), Sept. 16, 1893, pp.
264-66. Rept. Bombay, n.d. 20 pp.
Coleman’s paper was read at the Chicago Psychical Science
Congress of 1893, presided over by Elliott Coues (see Ch. 8). While
claiming to review the history of the Society, it ends up being a long
denunciation of Blavatsky. Like his other writings on her there are man}
tantalizing allegations. "Conclusive proofs," which he says are in his
possession, were postponed till the publication of his definitive exposure
of Theosophy. He died in 1909 without it appearing.
313. "Colonel Henry Steel Olcott." The Buddhist (Colombo), Apr. 22,
29, 1892, pp. 125-27, 129-31.
A selection of testimonials to Olcott’s character relating to his
early career, reprinted from the London Daily Chronicle.
314. "Col. H.S. Olcott Dead. Well Known Theosophist Succumbs tc
Injury in India." New York Tribune, Feb. 18, 1907, p. 7.
The Tribune reviews the career of its former agriculture editor.
315. Colonel Henry S. Olcott. Searcher After Truth. N.p.: Unitec
States Information Service, [c. 1980]. 4 pp.
101
Introduction to the film made by the United States Information
Agency which runs 22 minutes.
316. Conway, Moncure D. "A Tour Round the World: The
Theosophists." The Glasgow Herald, April 11, 1884.
’’And what or where is Adyar? It is the centre of the new cult
called Theosophy.” Relates his Jan. 1884 visit to the Theosophical
headquarters on the banks of the Adyar River with its "large and leafy
park" and "handsome mansion." "I came away with an impression that
the movement has a deeper hold on Young India than is generally
supposed."
3 1 7 .--------. "Contemporary Supematuralism." The Forum (New York)
1:3 (May 1886): 284-93.
The exhumation of buried literatures, the new sciences of
comparative Mythology and Religion have produced its parasite,
Theosophy, "which in one decade reached dimensions beyond those
attained by Christianity in two centuries." Recounts his visit to Adyar,
Eglinton’s phenomena on board the Vega, and the Coulomb exposure.
Concludes that Theosophy is simply Spiritualism "with chocolate
complexion and turban. ”
318. Cummins, Ella Sterling. "Our Theosophists." The Daily Examiner
(San Francisco), July 1, 1888, pp. 9-10.
"Within the last twenty years Oriental religions have penetrated
Europe and America to an extraordinary extent." The writer proceeds to
give a long examination of the spread of the Theosophical movement, its
teachings, and Hodgson’s report, including his plan of Mme. Blavatsky’s
rooms at Adyar, quoting his conclusion. "But, admitting all this, one fact
remains unsolved— Whence came the writings of Theosophy? Even Mr.
Hodgson refrains from touching on this mystery, besides which all the
rest is mere vapor smoke."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
319. Densmore, Helen. "An Interview with Mabel Collins." Religio-
Philosophical Journal, Sept. 21, 1889, p. 8.
A visit to the London home of the popular Theosophical writer
Mabel Collins Cook, who had just severed her connection with the
Society. She is described as being "about 35 years of age, tall and
graceful, with fair complexion and rare auburn hair."
320. Doyle, Arthur Conan. "The Eddy Brothers and the Holmeses."
Ch. 12 in The History ofSpiritualism. Vol. I. London: Cassell and
Company; New York: George H. Doran Co., 1926, pp. 258-88.
Rept. New York: Amo Press, 1976.
Discusses Olcott’s role testing the Eddy phenomena for the N.Y.
Daily Graphic, and with the Holmes mediums in Philadelphia. According
to the creator of Sherlock Holmes, "Reading these, it is difficult to
suggest any precaution which he had omitted."
321. Edwardes, Michael. "Wise Men from the East." Part 3 in The
Dark Side of History: Magic in the Making of Man. New York:
Granada Publishing, 1978, pp. 156-74.
The history of the T.S. in the 19th century, mixed up, as usual,
with H.P.B.’s life. Says the Society, in spite of its "jumble of
misunderstood Hinduism, Buddhism, and the occult traditions of East and
West," helped contribute a "cultural self-confidence to India which led to
its national self-assertion."
* Eglinton, John. See Magee, William K.
322. Ellinwood, F.F. "Theosophy, Esoteric Buddhism, and Christian
Science." The Homilectic Review, Dec. 1898, Jan. 1899, pp.
489-97, 15-19.
103
Ellinwood, Sec. of the Presbyterian Board of Missions, examines
the movement. "It was originated by a Russian adventuress named
Blavatsky."
323. Ewing, Arthur H. Theosophy Examined. Madras: The Christian
Literature Society, 1905. i, 32 pp.
Originally delivered as an address, this second and enlarged
edition claims that "No religious movement in India is of such importance
at the present time as Theosophy. It seeks to conserve ancient Hinduism
by stating it in new forms."
324. Farquhar, John Nicol. "Full Defence of the Old Religions." Ch.
4 in Modern Religious Movements in India. New York:
Macmillan, 1919. Rept. Delhi: MunshiramManoharlal, 1967, pp.
208-91, 447-57.
Farquhar’s treatment of Theosophy was part of a series of eight
lectures delivered at the Hartford Theological Seminary, Oct. 1913,
designed to prepare students for the foreign missionary field. While a
great deal of space is spent exposing Blavatsky (57 pages) and Besant (20
pages), very little analysis is given to the reasons for the movement’s
immense success in India, still its largest membership. There may be
something in his claim that "Theosophic accounts both of Madame
Blavatsky’s life and the history of the Society are extremely unreliable,"
but he is not above slanting evidence to suit his argument. An example
is shown in the reason he gives for Blavatsky’s founding of the
Theosophical Society. He quotes her as writing, "Here, you see, is my
trouble, to-morrow there will be nothing to eat. Something quite out of
the way must be invented." Yet these words are not hers at all, but V.
Solovyov’s interpretation of what she has written (see Ch. 8).
325. Fields, Rick. "The White Buddhists: Colonel Olcott, Madame
Blavatsky and the Theosophical Society." Ch. 6 in How the Swans
Came to the Lake: A Narrative History of Buddhism in America.
Boulder, Colo.: Shambala, 1981, pp. 83-118.
104 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Olcott’s meeting with Blavatsky at the Eddy farmhouse in
Vermont, New York days of the Society, the move to India, and Olcott’s
work for Buddhist unity throughout Asia. But nothing on how the
Theosophists contributed to the growth of Buddhism in America, except
that Dharmapala, a member from Ceylon, represented Buddhism at the
Chicago World Parliament of Religions.
j 326. Flint, Charles R. M
A Society for Testing Human Credulity." Ch.
I 9 in Memories of an Active Life. New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons,
j 1923, pp. 115-32.
I
Background on the "Hiraf" club, composed of F.W. Hinrichs,
W.M. Ivins, James C. Robinson, C.F. Adams, and W.E.S. Fales. Their
collective article "Rosicrucianism" in the July 1875 Spiritual Scientist
provoked Blavatsky’s "first Occult shot" in reply. Ivins, and later
Hinrichs, both represented Blavatsky in the courts.
327. Foote, George William. Mrs. Besant’s Theosophy. London:
Progressive Publishing Company, 1889. 16 pp.
On Besant’s sudden conversion to Theosophy. "The news fell upon
the Freethought party like a bolt from the blue....There was apparently
no gradation in change. At one leap she left Atheism and materialism and
plunged into the depths of the wildest pantheism and spiritualism... .Surely
no intellect like Mrs. Besant’s could undergo such rapid changes by itself.
Madame Blavatsky on the one side, and Mr. Herbert Burrows on the
other, may supply the explanation." Reviews Mme. Blavatsky’s career
and teachings. Replied to by item 631.
3 2 8 .------- . Secularism and Theosophy. London: Printed and publ. by
G.W. Foote, 1889. 16 pp.
Foote fumes that Annie Besant is now "going round the country
preaching Theosophy from our [Secularist] platform." Gives reasons why
her new position is inconsistent with that of Secularism.
105
329. French, Hal. W. "Directions of Reform and Renewal Throughout
India: 1858-1900." Ch. 3 in Religious Ferment in Modern India,
by Hal W. French and Arvind Sharma. New Delhi: Heritage
Publ., 1981, pp. 41-46.
Evaluates the functioning of the Theosophical Society in 19th
century India especially in relation to the Arya Samaj. "While the
movement’s activities were in the direction largely of defense of the
traditional social structure, it was not blind to India’s problems."
330. Fuess, David C. "Theosophical Society." Community Spirit
Magazine (Carmel, CA) 5:4 (May 1985): 44-47.
The story of the Theosophical Society is synonymous with
H.P.B.’s life in this abbreviated account which ends with an
announcement for J. Krishnamurti’s talks to be held in Ojai.
331. Gandhi, Mohandas K. "Acquaintance with Religions." Ch. 20 in
An Autobiography, or the Story of my Experiments with Truth.
Trans, by Mahadev Desai. Part I. Ahmedabad: Navajivan, 1927.
Rept. in The Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi. Vol. 39. New
Delhi: The Publications Division, Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting, Goverment of India, 1970, pp. 60-62.
"Towards the end of my second year in England I came across
two Theosophists, both brothers, and both unmarried. They talked to me
about the Gita...and invited me to read the original with them....I regard
it today as the book par excellence for the knowledge of Truth....They
took me on one occasion to the Blavatsky Lodge and introduced me to
Madame Blavatsky and Mrs. Besant." The "brothers" were actually uncle
and nephew, Bertram and Archibald Keightley.
332. Gibbon, Monk. "AE and the Early Days of Theosophy in
Dublin." The Dublin Magazine n.s. 32:3 (July-Sept. 1957): 25-37.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Concentrates on the events that developed Theosophy in
Ireland—Mohini Chatteiji’s visit in 1886, Judge and Archibald Keightley
on Nov. 27, 1888, and Olcott in Oct. 1889. Quotes from the Attendance
Book of the Dublin Lodge dating from Sept. 1888.
3 3 3 .------- . "AE and ‘The Household.’" The Dublin Magazine n.s.
33:2 (April-June 1958): 23-31.
Life at the Theosophical household at no. 3 Upper Ely Place,
Dublin, where George Russell resided from about 1892 to 1896. Says that
if the Irish Theosophist had not been started in the autumn of 1892,
Russell "might have ceased writing altogether for a time." Items 332 and
333 are adapted from Gibbon’s Ph.D. diss., Dublin University, 1947/48,
"The Early Years of George Russell (AE) and His Connection with the
Theosophical Movement."
334. Godwin, Joscelyn. The Beginnings of Theosophy in France.
London: Theosophical History Centre, 1989. 39 pp.
The genesis of the Theosophical movement in France, which the
author says began officially with the formation of Duchess de Pomar’s
"Societe Theosophique d’Orient et d’Occident" in 1883. Traces the
development of subsequent Branches—Isis, Hermes—and the personalities
involved, especially the part played by Gerard Encausse, "Papus."
3 3 5 .--------. "The Hidden Hand, Part III: The Parting of East and
West." Theosophical History 3:4 (October 1990): 107-15.
Recalling the Hermetic atmosphere of the early Theosophical
Society in America during the 1870s, Godwin suggests an affiliation
between Blavatsky and the mysterious Brotherhood of Light.
336. Gombrich, Richard F. "Protestant Buddhism." Ch. 7 in Theravada
Buddhism. London and New York: Routledge & Kegan Paul,
1988, pp. 185-91.
107
The influence of the Theosophists on the growth of secular
leadership in Sri Lanka through pioneering organizations like the Buddhist
Theosophical Society and the activities of Dharmapala.
337. Gomes, Michael. "Damodar, A Hindu Chela." The Theosophist
106:12 (September 1985): 447-51.
Based on a talk at the Nov. 1984 Diamond Jubilee of the Vasanta
Youth Lodge, Adyar, India, this article addresses the impact of
Theosophy on the life of a young Hindu, Damodar K. Mavalankar.
Clarifies the "mystery" of his sudden departure for the Himalayas in Feb.
1885 at a most crucial time for the Society.
3 3 8 .--------. The Dawning of the Theosophical Movement. Wheaton,
IL: Quest Books, 1987. vi, 248 pp.
The only detailed examination of the 1874-78 period of the
Theosophical movement since Vol. I of Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves almost
a century before. Covers the Spiritualist background that the movement
arose out of, the first public cremation in America, Isis Unveiled and
Coleman’s criticism of it, and the relationship with the Arya Samaj of
India. One reviewer has estimated that "over 300 references from books,
periodicals, letters, etc." mainly from the 19th century are quoted, making
it a source book for the period.
3 3 9 .--------. "Elbridge Gerry Brown and the Boston Spiritual
Scientist." The Canadian Theosophist, Jan.-Feb., Maj*.-Apr. 1989,
pp. 121-29, 24-17.
Brown, the publisher of the weekly Spritual Scientist, is sometimes
referred to as a third figure in the early Theosophical movement. His
actual contribution and his relationship with the Theosophists, as mirrored
in the pages of his journal, are outlined.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
3 4 0 .--------. "The Ante and Post-Natal History of the Theosophical
Society.” The Canadian Theosophist, July-Aug., Sept.-Oct.,
Nov.-Dee. 1989, pp. 51-57, 76-81, 112-15.
The American years of the Society told mainly from the Minute
Book of the T.S. for 1875-76.
3 4 1 .--------. "Colonel Olcott and the American Press: 1875.” The
Canadian Theosophist, Jan.-Feb., Mar.-Apr. 1990, pp. 124-28,
2-7.
Olcott’s position as a key figure in the year of the Society’s
founding. He had 27 published pieces, including a major book, in 1875.
Gives sources.
3 4 2 .--------. "Rev. Wiggin’s Review of George Henry Felt’s 1875
Lecture on the Cabala.” The Canadian Theosophist 71:3
(July-Aug. 1990): 63-69.
Contesting views by observers on the September meeting in
Blavatsky’s rooms in New York where at Olcott’s suggestion "a Society
be formed for the study and elucidation of Occultism, the Cabala, etc."
Reprints the report of the Rev. Wiggin in the Liberal Christian of Sept.
25, 1875 (item 465).
3 4 3 .------- . "Abner Doubleday and Theosophy in America: 1879-
1884." Sunrise (Pasadena, CA) 40:4 (April-May 1991): 151-57.
Maj.-Gen. Abner Doubleday (1819-93), an early New York
member, became President of the Theosophical Society after Olcott’f
departure for India in 1878. The development of the Society in America
under Doubleday’s guidance until the formation of the American Board
of Control in 1884 is documented from information preserved in his
notebooks.
109
3 4 4 .--------. "Mabel Collins’ ‘Romance of the White Lotus.’"
Theosophical History 3:7-8 (July-Oct. 1991): 193-99.
Examines the effect of Mrs. Cook’s connection with Theosophy
on her literary work using the text of a discarded chapter for her Idyll of
the White Lotus, 1884, from the original short story published in 1882.
3 4 5 .--------. "Anagarika Dharmapala and the Theosophical Society."
In the Centenary Souvenir of the Maha Bodhi Society. Madras,
[September 1991, 7 unnumbered pp.].
The association of Dharmapala (Don David Hewavitame, 1864-
1933) with the Theosophical Society. Covers his meeting Blavatsky and
Olcott in Colombo in 1880, to his participation at the Chicago Parliament
of Religions in 1893. Contains two rare photographs of Dharmapala at the
Adyar Theosophical Conventions of Dec. 1889 and 1893.
3 4 6 .--------. "The Contribution of the Theosophical Society to the
Buddhist Revival in India." In Buddhist Themes in Modern Indian
Literature, ed. by J. Parthasarathi. Madras: Institute of Asian
Studies, 1992, pp. 15-25.
Seminar paper delivered at the University of Madras, Oct. 28,
1991, on Olcott, Blavatsky, and Dharmapala’s contribution to the
Buddhist revival in India, constrained by the non-sectarian platform of
Theosophical Society. Presents background on Olcott’s role in aiding
Tamil untouchables convert to Buddhism in 1898.
3 4 7 .--------. nFrom Hinduism to Hinduism: A Chapter in the Indian
Revival." The Theosophist 113:9 (June 1992): 334-40. Rept. in
The Indian Theosophist (Varanasi) 89:9 (September 1992): 197-
206.
The story of Parbati Chum Roy’s path to scepticism and return to
Hinduism through Theosophy after meeting Blavatsky in 1882. Reprints
five of her letters to him from item 1131.
110 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
348. Grandmaison, Leonce de. Theosophy. London: Catholic Truth
Society, [1911]. 32 pp.
The efforts of Blavatsky, Olcott, Besant, and the doctrines of
Theosophy. "Theosophy offers itself, not as a new religion, but as that
supremely ancient, profound, and universal knowledge which is at the
root of all religions. Its ‘colour’ is, however, so strongly Oriental, that
it has constantly been confused with Buddhism."
349. Greenwalt, Emmett. Ch. 1-4 in The Point Loma Community in
California: 1897-1942. Berkeley: University of California Press,
1955. Rept. as California Utopia: Point Loma: 1897-1942. San
Diego: Point Loma Publications, 1978, pp. 1-46.
Covers the emergence of Theosophy in America, the rise of
Katherine Tingley (1847-1929), successor to Judge as head of the
Theosophical Society in America, her World Crusade of 1896, and the
establishing of her Theosophical community at Point Loma, California.
350. Guenon, Rene. Le Theosophisme: Histoire d funepseudo-religion.
Paris: Nouvelle Librairie Nationale, 1921. 310 pp. Rept. Paris:
Didier et Richard, 1930. 376 pp. Rept. Paris: Editions
Traditionnelles, 1982. 477 pp.
Guenon’s thesis is that "Mme. Blavatsky was above all a ‘subject’
or instrument in the hands of individuals or occult groups sheltering
behind her personality, just as others were in turn instruments in her
hands."
351. Guma, Greg. "First Family of Spiritualism." Fate 37 (July 1984):
86-94.
The story of the Eddy family of mediums at whose Vermont
farmhouse Blavatsky and Olcott met on Oct. 14, 1874. Gives something
of Olcott’s investigations there.
Histories and Biographies 111
352. Guruge, Ananda. "Introduction" to Return to Righteousness. A
Collection of Speeches, Essays and Letters of the Anagarika
Dharmapala. Ceylon: Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs,
1965, 1991, pp. xvii-lxxxv.
A contemporary assessment of the life and work of Dharmapala.
Covers his role in Sinhalese nationalism, and gives a useful year by year
chronology of his life. According to the statement from Prime Minister
Dudley Senanayaka of Sri Lanka which opens the volume, "The
Anagarika Dharmapala was one of the greatest men Ceylon has
produced."
3 5 3 .--------. "Henry Steel Olcott’s Association with the Sangha of Sri
Lanka." In From the Living Streams of Buddhism. Colombo:
Ministry of Cultural Affairs, 1984, pp. 335-59.
Extensive use of Olcott’s letters to the Ven. Dodanduwe
Piyaratana Tissa Nayaka Thera, Ven. Weligama Sri Sumangala Nayaka
Thera, and the Ven. Ambagahapitiye Wimalasara Tissa Mahanayaka
Thera, from 1878 to 1881 to portray his relations with the Buddhist
Sangha.
I
354. Guthrie, Thomas Anstey [F. Anstey]. A Fallen Idol. London:
Smith, Elder & Co., 1886. 334 pp. New York: J.W. Lovell, i
1886. 198 pp. |
A very facetious and amusing novel of a Jain idol which is
removed to London and the havoc it wreaks in the life of its possessor. ,
Delicious parodies of the Theosophists. I
355. Haldeman, Rev. I.M. Theosophy or Christianity. Which? With an
Introduction by Rev. T.D. Talmage. New York: Croscup
Publishing Company, 1893. 52 pp.
"After deliberate investigation, close study, and some knowledge
}f occult science, we are ready unhesitatingly to affirm that Theosophy
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
is one of the masterpieces of satanic wisdom in these latter days." Mainly
a philosophical critique, but mentions the Simla picnic where Blavatsky
produced an extra teacup.
356. Hall, Angus. "Strange Cults." Ch. 6 in West Meets East. Garden
City, NY: Doubleday and Co., 1976, pp. 102-12.
General background on the Theosophical Society in the 19th
century.
357. Hamon, Louis [Cheiro, pseud.]. "Mrs. Annie Besant, William Q.
Judge, Mrs. Katherine Tingley and Krishnamurti." Ch. 15 in
Mysteries and Romances of the World's Greatest Occultists.
London: Herbert Jenkins, 1935, pp. 181-89.
"Cheiro," a noted palmist, describes being visited by Judge and
Tingley in New York. Says he predicted Judge’s early death. Gives an
impression of Tingley’s palm dated May 30, 1896.
358. Harrison, Charles G. The Transcendental Universe. London:
George Redway, 1896, pp. 1-38, 165-68.
Harrison’s book is made up of six lectures delivered to the
"Berean" Society in 1893. The first lecture purports to give the inner
history of the occult movement in the 19th century. Spiritualism was an
experiment to stem the rising tide of materialism, but this failed. Mme.
Blavatsky appeared on the scene and was used by various rival groups ol
the occult brotherhood.
359. Home, Daniel Dunglas. Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism.
London: Virtu and Company, 1877. New York: G.W. Carleton,
1877, 1879, pp. 294-97, 324-28.
Chapter 3, "Delusions," deals with Olcott’s claim in his Inaugural
Address for George Henry Felt’s intention to make visible the creatures
113
of the elements by chemical means. Home ruefully retorts, "A faith that
promises everything and accomplishes nothing is unlikely to have much
influence on the future of the world." Chapter 5, "People From the Other
World," criticizes Olcott’s statements about Blavatsky (not named) being
"one of the most remarkable mediums in the world," and then his about
face that "she is no medium," and that the buckle received by H.P.B. at
the Eddys was brought from her father’s grave. Home counters, "In
Russia decorations are never buried with the dead."
360. Hoste, William. Theosophy: What and Whence? London: Alfred
Holness, [1912]. 15 pp.
"Theosophy boasts of a lineal descent from the Ancient
Mysteries." Gives its modem development as "one of many indications
that the powers of evil are already closing their ranks for the great
conflict of the last days," because Theosophy denies "the Atonement of
Christ and of Salvation through faith in His blood alone."
361. Howe, Ellic, ed. The Alchemist of the Golden Dawn.
Wellingborough: The Aquarian Press, 1985. 112 pp.
Letters from the Rev. W.A. Ayton from 1886 to 1905. Ayton was
an early member of the Theosophical Society and numerous occult
organizations, including the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. His
letters give something of the personalities of the time.
362. Hull, Rev. Ernest R. Theosophy and Christianity. London:
Catholic Truth Society, 1905. Rept. Bombay: Examiner Press,
1913. 127 pp.
Originally appearing in the Bombay Examiner, 1903/4, this study
is one of the few that compares Theosophical teachings with Catholicism.
Contrasts beliefs in God, the idea of Evil, Karma.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
363. Hunt, James D. "1881-1891: The Student Years." Ch. I in Gandhi
in London. New Delhi: Promilla & Co., 1978, pp. 31-36.
Gandhi’s contact with the London Theosophical group around
Blavatsky, 1889, and their influence on his work.
364. Ingalls, Brian. "The Heritage of a Fallible Saint: Annie Besant’s
Gifts to India."Proceedings ofthe American Philosophical Society
(Philadelphia) 109 (1965): 85-88.
Establishes Besant’s contribution to Indian education, politics, and
the arts. "For a brief period she exerted a profound and salutory effect
on the Indian nationalist movement."
* Inquire Within. See Stoddart, Christina Mary
365. "Interview: The Countess Constance Wachtmeister." Woman's
Herald (London), Oct. 10, 1891, pp. 803-4.
The Countess talks about her life previous to joining the
Theosophical Society in 1880, her stay with Blavatsky at Wurzburg.
1885/86, and later at Ostende. "I cannot tell you how we lived through
that long dreary winter in the quiet German town, where we had not a
single friend."
366. "Is He Koot Hoomi, Blavatsky’s ‘Mahatma?’" New York Herald.
Aug. 16, 1891, p. 10.
Lengthy article on Mme. Blavatsky’s potential Americar
successors. The Herald suggests that Charles Sotheran, one of thf
original founding members, exerted an initial influence and is the mos
qualified. Gives brief sketches of other prominent U.S. Theosophists.
Histories and Biographies 115
367. Jackson, Carl T. "Theosophy." Ch. 9 in The Oriental Religions
and American Thought: Nineteenth Century Explorations.
Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1981, pp. 156-77.
Well-researched study on the popularization of Indian philosophy
in America through the efforts of the Theosophists. One of the few
studies that takes into account the later 1890s backlash among American
Theosophists against India.
368. Jastrow, Joseph. "The Modem Occult." The Popular Science
Monthly 57:5 (September 1900): 449-72.
Brief mention of Theosophy and H.P.B. on pages 452-54.
369. Jones, Rev. John P. "Mrs. Besant and Theosophy in India." The
Independent, July 19, 1894, 917-18.
Rev. Jones, an American missionary at Madura, India, comments
on the excitement caused by Mrs. Besant’s recent appearance in India.
Says she has identified Theosophy with Hinduism. Quotes her as saying
in Madura, "I am a Hindu in my religious belief. I believe in the gods
and in the sublime philosophy of the Upanishads."
370. Jones, Kenneth W. "The Dravidian South: Theosophists among
Hindu orthodoxy." Ch. 6 in Socio-religious reform movements in
British India. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989, pp.
167-79.
Believes that "Theosophists were thus a socio-religious movement
of reverse acculturation, foreigners who adjusted to the realities of South
Asia, and in the process reoriented belief, behavior, and social goals."
Outlines their history in India till the arrival of Besant. This volume is
the first in Part III of The New Cambridge History of India.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
371. Jordens, J.T.F. "The Final Years: The Wider World of
Hinduism." Ch. 9 in Dayananda Sarasvati: His Life and Ideas.
Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1978, pp. 209-16.
Resume of the relationship between the Hindu reformer, Swami
Dayananda, and Olcott and Blavatsky, 1879-82, based on the Arya Samaj
viewpoint. "The Swami was enthusiastic at first, but slowly grew
suspicious of their beliefs and machinations." For the Theosophists
version see item 186.
372. Judah, J. Stillson. "Theosophy and Its Allies." Ch. 3 in The
History and Philosophy of the Metaphysical Movements in
America. Philadelphia: Westminister Press, 1967, pp. 92-119.
"Notoriety did not help the fortunes of Theosophy, but failed to
eclipse the career of Madame Blavatsky," which is the dominant story
told here. There is some mention of the work of Judge and Olcott, and
the activities of Katherine Tingley. Some Theosophical ideas, mainly
from 20th century sources, are presented as being representative.
373. Kamerkar, M.P. "The Theosophy Movement in India, with
Special Reference to Maharashtra." In Social Contents of Indian
Religious Reform Movements, ed. by S.P. Sen. Calcutta: Institute
of Historical Studies, 1978, pp. 399-410.
Dr. Kamerkar suggests that the "initial association of the
Theosophical Society with the Arya Samaj and its leading personalities
was very important to the Indian social reform movement." Gives the
example ofjoint membership of Justice K.T. Telang, who belonged to the
reformist Prarthana Samaj, the work of Theosophists in the Women’s
Indian Association and the Boy Scouts.
374. Karunakaran, K.P. "Hindu Religious Revival and National
Consciousness." Ch. 4 in Religion and Political Awakening in
India. Meerut: Meenakshi Prakashan, 1965, pp. 67-72, 83-84.
117
Quotes Besant and critics of Theosophy on the role of the Society
in the Indian national awakening. "There is, however, no doubt that in a
limited field it contributed to the growth of nationalism in India by
instilling among educated Indians a pride in the country’s past and
religious heritage."
375. Karunaratne, S., ed. Olcott Commemoration Volume. Ceylon:
Olcott Commemoration Society, 1967.
According to the message from the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka,
the Hon. Dudley Senanayake, which opens this volume of testimonials,
"Col. Olcott can be considered one of the heroes in the struggle for our
independence and a pioneer of the present religious, national and cultural
revival." At the time of Olcott’s death in 1907, 25,000 children were
being educated in schools started by him in Ceylon.
3 7 6 .--------. Olcott’
s Contribution to the Buddhist Renaissance.
Colombo, Sri Lanka: Publication Division, Ministry of Cultural
Affairs, 1980. xv, 65 pp.
An account of Olcott’s work in Sri Lanka, abridged from his Old
Diary Leaves, issued on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of his
arrival on the island, May 17, 1880. Forms pages 59-105 of item 375.
377. Kirthisinghe, Buddhadase P., "Henry Steel Olcott is a
Bodhisattva." The Modern Review (Calcutta) 140:4 (October
1976): 201-6.
Dr. Kirthisinghe, an eminent Buddhist scholar, compares Olcott’s
life with events in the Buddha’s. "It is a Buddhistic belief that Shiri Olcott
had taken the Boddhisattva vow before a Buddha, probably at the feet of
Gautama Buddha in an earlier life."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
3 7 8 .--------. "Colonel Henry Steel Olcott—An American Loved by
Asians." The Maha-Bodhi Journal 86:6-7 (June-July 1978):
185-88.
Short summation of Olcott’s life and work for Buddhism. "Sri
Lanka’s educational system, the international Buddhist flag, and the
Adyar Oriental Library are today living monuments to his greatness."
3 7 9 .------- . "Colonel Henry Steel Olcott, the Great American
Buddhist."In Colonel Olcott. His Service to Buddhism. Kandy, Sri
Lanka: Buddhist Publication Society, 1981, pp. 1-20.
Focuses on Olcott’s work in the field of education, Buddhist and
Hindu, and his attempts at Buddhist unification, as shown in his fourteen
fundamental Buddhist beliefs.
380. Kuch, Peter. Yeats and A.E. Gerrards Cross, Bucks: Colin
Smythe; Totowa, NJ: Barnes and Noble, 1986, pp. 8-20, 58-61.
The stormy friendship of Yeats and George Russell, from theii
meeting in Dublin in the 1880s. Describes the impact of Theosophy or
their lives and gives some background on the Dublin Hermetic Society,
the visit of Mohini Chatterji to Ireland, and the Theosophical household
in Dublin.
381. Legge, F. "The Origin of Modem Theosophy." The National
Review (London) 14 (September 1889): 10-22.
"I think that if the doctrines of the Theosophical Society are
compared with what has come down to us of the Gnostic tenets, it h
impossible to resist the conclusion that the later system is not only tfa
same in all points as the elder, but that the coincidence is too close to be
the result of accident."
Histories and Biographies 119
382. Leopold, Joan. "The Aryan Theory of Race." The Indian and
Social History Review 7:2 (June 1970): 271-97.
The mutual influence of Swami Dayananda and the Theosophists
as shown in their writings, especially in the idea of India as the ancient
homeland of races, Aryavarta.
383. Lhamon, Rev. W.J. "Recent Theosophy in Its Antagonism to
Christianity." The Andover Review 19 (Sept.-Oct. 1893): 570-81.
Reasons why Theosophy is antagonistic to Christianity: it is
pantheistic, teaches reincarnation and karma. Cites the Kiddle incident
(see Ch. 6) as evidence of its fraudulent nature.
384. Longford, Elizabeth. "Annie Besant." No. 5 in Eminent Victorian
Women. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1981, pp. 129-50.
The events in Mrs. Besant’s life that contributed to her greatness.
Good until it reaches the 20th century, but then it runs amok.
385. McCorkle, William P. "An Old Enemy with Two New Faces."
The Presbyterian Quarterly (Charlotte, NC) 13 (April 1899):
281-97.
"The way in which the Gnostics treated the Bible is duplicated by
Christian Science and Theosophical methods of its use and
interpretation." Gives examples.
386. Magee, William K. [John Eglinton, pseud.]. A Memoir of AE,
George William Russell. London: Macmillan & Co., 1937, pp.
11-54, 164-66.
Russell’s involvement with the Theosophical Society from 1884 to
ais withdrawal from its organized form in 1898. "It was AE’s belief that
120 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
during the period beginning 1875 and ending with the death of [W.Q.]
Judge [in 1896], there had been a diffusion of spiritual light."
387. McGinley, A.A. "Theosophy: Its Leaders and Its Leading." The
Catholic World (N.Y.) 66 (October 1897): 34-51.
Theosophy depicted as "a fresh form of an old heresy, a new
weapon that Satan has employed to work against the spreading of the
kingdom of Christ and belief in his divinity." Reviews the lives oi
Blavatsky and Besant.
388. Maitland, Edward. The Life ofAnna Kingsford. London: George
Redway, 1896. Rept. as Anna Kingsford, Her Life, Letters, Diary
and Work. 2 vols. London: John Watkins, 1913.
Volume 2 covers the events in the life of Kingsford and Maitlanc
from 1881 to Kingsford’s death in 1888, and their attempt to establish a
"new Gospel of Interpretation" based on her "Illuminations" of Esoteric
Christianity and Hermeticism. They were invited to become Pres, anc
Vice-Pres. of the British Theosophical Society in 1883, but because o:
differences of interpretation with A.P. Sinnett’s eastern approach brok*
away to form the Hermetic Society in 1884. Scattered throughout th<
volume are numerous references to leading Theosophists, including
Blavatsky, Olcott, Mohini Chatteiji, their patron Lady Caithness, anc
others, enriched by copious extracts from Anna Kingsford’s diaries anc
letters. The third edition of 1913, edited by Samuel Hopgood Hart
identities and restores much matter left out of the earlier editions.
389. Malalgoda, Kitsiri. "Protest Consolidated. Lay Participation afte
1880: The Buddhist Theosophical Society." Ch. 7, Part 3, h
Buddhism in Sinhalese Society, 1750-1900. Berkeley and Lo;
Angeles: University of California Press, 1976, pp. 242-57.
Detailed presentation of the part played by the Buddhis
Theosophical Society (B.T.S.) in the Buddhist revival in Sri Lanka
"With its branches in several provincial towns and headquarters ii
Histories and Biographies 121
Colombo, the lay division of the B.T.S. came to provide Buddhist layman
with what in the preceding decades they had been wanting to create, a
strong and unified organization."
390. Martindale, C.C., S.J. "The Founders of Modem Theosophy." In
Theosophy. London: Catholic Truth Society, 1913, pp. 13-39.
Rev. 1928, 1936, pp. 1-16.
The questionable credentials of Blavatsky, Besant, and the objects
)f the Theosophical Society, serve as an introduction to "The Doctrines
)f Theosophy."
391. Maskelyne, John Nevil. "Theosophy." Ch. 7 in The Supernatural
by Lionel Weatherly. Bristol: J.W. Arrowsmith, [1891 ?], 1917,
pp. 215-24, 268-73.
Maskelyne declares that he is going to "state the facts of this latest
levelopment of a familiar craze," but proceeds instead to ridicule Mme.
Ilavatsky. "The solution of the problem, then, is this. Theosophy is a
lirect outcome of Spiritualism."
3 9 2 .--------. The Fraud of Modern "Theosophy" Exposed. London:
George Routledge & Sons, [1912]. 95 pp.
This "Brief History of the Greatest Imposture Ever Perpetrated
Jnder the Cloak of Religion," reviews the career of Mme. Blavatsky, the
levelopment of the Theosophical Society from Olcott’s "Miracle Club,"
he Founders in India, and Mrs. Besant’s conversion. Reviewed in The
?ahan (London), Feb. 1, 1913, pp. 145-48.
393. Metcalfe, Catherine Maude. "The Late Mabel Collins." Letter to
the Editor, Occult Review (London), May 1929, pp. 334-35.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Metcalfe was Mrs. Cook’s companion during her last years. Says
she "never talked of her early life and experiences" among the
Theosophists.
394. Meyer, Michael R., and Nancy Keleban. "The Theosophical
Society, 1875-1975." Horoscope 41:11 (November 1975): 41-46.
An astrological interpretation of Blavatsky and the founding of the
Theosophical Society, with a prediction for the 1975-2000 period.
395. Meyer, T.H. "Spiritual Renaissance in Dublin." Ch. 2 in D.N.
Dunlop. A Man of Our Time. London: Temple Lodge, 1992, pp
25-52.
Daniel Nicol Dunlop (1868-1935), a pioneering figure ir
Theosophy in Ireland, was editor of the Irish Theosophist (see iten
2015). This biography covers his friendship with George Russell, th<
Theosophical household in Dublin, and his editorial work with th<
magazine.
396. "A Miracle Worker of Today." The Pall Mall Gazette, Apr. 21
1884, p. 6. Rept. in the Supplement to The Theosophist, Jul]
1884, pp. 101-2.
The story of why Col. Olcott abandoned his professional career ir
America for Theosophy, and his successful "psychopathic treatments" ii
India, healing 8,000 people in 13 months.
397. Moore, R. Laurence. "Spiritualism, Parapsychology, and th<
Occult." Ch. 9 in In Search of White Crows. New York: Oxfon
University Press, 1977, pp. 227-36.
Uses the early Theosophical Society in America to contrast th<
Spiritualist ethos. Since Spiritualism was "the first popular movement ii
America to insist on empiricism as the exclusive foundation of religiou
Histories and Biographies 123
:hought, it was bound to be associated with many other movements that
sought to copy its example."
398. Morgan, Arthur E. "Theosophy and the Nationalist Movement."
Ch. 11 in Edward Bellamy. New York: Columbia University
Press, 1944, pp. 260-75.
"Specific treatment has been given to the relations of Theosophy
ind Nationalism because heretofore they have been wholly ingored."
Discusses the involvement of prominent Theosophists—Arthur B. Griggs
Pres, of the Boston Branch), George D. Ayers (Pres, of the Malden
branch, T.S.), Sylvester Baxter, and others—in the Nationalist movement
)f the 1880s.
399. Moses, William Stainton. "The Early Story of the Theosophical
Society. A Chapter of History." Light (London), July 9, 23, 1892, j
pp. 330-32, 354-57.
Mainly made up of Olcott’s correspondence to Moses in 1875.
400. Motwani, Kewal. Colonel H.S. Olcott. A Forgotten Page of
American History. Madras: Ganesh & Co., 1955. 16 pp.
Biographical sketch of Olcott’s contribution to agriculture, law and
nsurance, psychical research, and the religious and cultural revival of
ndia and Ceylon.
401. Murdoch, John, ed. Theosophy Exposed: or Mrs. Besant and her
Guru. An Appeal to Educated Hindus. Madras: The Christian
Literature Society, 1893. 113 pp.
Revives the 1884 Madras Christian College Magazine exposure,
le 1885 S.P.R. Report, Coleman’s 1893 "Critical Historical Review,"
nd calls on educated Hindus to "Return to the worship of our great
124 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
father in heaven," the monotheism which preceded the polytheism of the
Vedas.
4 0 2 .--------. Who Is Mrs. Besant? and Why Has She Come to India*!
Madras: The Christian Literature Society, 1894. 44 pp.
Includes at the end, four unnumbered pages: "The Visit of Mrs
Besant. An Appeal to Indian Journalists and Intelligent Hindus," by J
Murdoch, Madras, December 1893.
4 0 3 .--------. The Theosophic Craze: Its History. Madras: The Christiar
Literature Society, 1894. 92 pp.
Written to counter the attention Mrs. Besant’s visit to India has
received from "educated Hindus." Warns that "Madame Blavatsky anc
her followers are most unsafe religious guides." Features a long sectioi
on "how Mrs. Besant was Befooled" by W.Q. Judge.
4 0 4 .------- . India Past and Present. With India's Present Needs, anc
Concluding Appeal. Madras: The Christian Literature Society
1894. iv, 93 pp.
"An Examination of Mrs. Besant’s Plans to the Improvement o
India."
405. Navaratne, Gamini. "Colonel Henry Steel Olcott." The Times o
Ceylon (Colombo), Dec. 8, 1967. Rept. in The America/
Theosophist 56:8 (August 1968): 185-87.
Commemorates the sixieth anniversary of Olcott’s passing, and th
issuing of a postage stamp honoring him by the Government of Ceylon
"His name figures high as the only foreigner on the roll of great mei
commemorated on National Heroes’ Day."
Histories and Biographies 125
406. Nethercot, Arthur H. The First Five Lives of Annie Besant.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1960. ix, 419 pp. London:
Rupert Hart-Davis, 1961. 435 pp.
Nethercot’s "lives" describe Besant’s adherence to various causes
as Christian wife, Atheist mother, Martyr of Science, Socialist Labor
Agitator, and Chela of the Mahatmas. Her fifth "life" covers her joining
the T.S. in 1889, to her speaking at the Theosophical Congress during the
Chicago World Parliament of Religions in 1893. An Appendix includes
eleven letters written by Besant the year of her joining the Society.
4 0 7 .--------. Part 6: Ch. 1-6, in The Last Four Lives ofAnnie Besant.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press; London: Rupert Hart-
Davis, 1963, pp. 15-73.
Chronicles Besant’s Indian period during the 1890s, including her
vork for Indian education and the "Judge Case."
408. Noel, Conrad. "Theosophic Dogmas." In Byways of Belief
London: Frank Palmer, 1912, pp. 95-111.
Besant’sjoining the T.S. seen as a turning away from rationalism.
409. "No Longer a Mystery. Identity of the Unknown Adept of the
Theosophists Revealed." New York Daily Tribune, Mar. 18,
1896, p. 7.
Katherine Tingley’s position as "the real successor of Mme.
Uavatsky and W.Q. Judge," revealed to the public by E.T. Hargrove at
meeting the day before announcing a world crusade to leave New York
une 13. Proceeds to give a long interview with Tingley described as
about forty years old....stoutly built," and crowned with a "wealth of
lack-grey hair."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
410. O’Brien, James Howard. "Theosophy and the Poetry of Georg'
Russell (AE), William Butler Yeats, and James Stephens." Ph.D
diss., University of Washington, Seattle, 1956. 367 pp.
Attempts to show the influence of Theosophy on the Irish literar
revival, using a comparative study of Theosophical ideas on the thre
Irish writers named.
411. "Olcott, Henry Steel." In the Dictionary of American Religiou
Biography, ed. by Henry Warner Bowden. Westport, CT
Greenwood Press, 1977, pp. 342-43.
"Practical contributions to the stability in the movement wer
Olcott’s greatest contributions."
412. Oppenheim, Janet. "Theosophy and the Occult." Ch. 5 in Th
Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in Englanc
1850-1914. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1985, pp
158-97.
Places the Theosophical movement in the context of the growin
interest in psychical research in England of the 1880s. Focuses in deta
on the Society’s departure from Spiritualist beliefs—denial of the realil
of post-mortem communications, the promulgation of karma an
reincarnation—and identifies leading British Theosophists of the tim<
C.C. Massey, George Wyld, A.P. Sinnett, Anna Kingsford, Annie Besar
and others. "In the ferment of ideas and movements that animated th
closing decades of the nineteenth century and the opening years of tl
twentieth, it was possible to perceive Theosophy as part of a vai
liberation movement designed to topple the materialistic, patriarcha
capitalistic, and utterly philistine culture of the Victorian Age."
4 1 3 .--------. "The Odyssey of Annie Besant." History Today (Londoi
39 (September 1989): 12-18.
127
Traces Besant’s "dramatic spiritual odyssey, beginning with the
High Church fervour of her adolescence, passing through a much
publicised endorsement of freethought and materialism, to end at last in
the eclectic occultism of Theosophy." Says that "if Theosophy had not
existed, Besant might have had to invent it herself."
414. Pearsall, Ronald. "Theosophy: The Breakaway Movement." Ch.
20 in The Table-Rappers. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1973,
pp. 211-17.
Credits the charismatic personality of Mme. Blavatsky for the
success Theosophy achieved over Spiritualism. "It was the hippy
movement of the last quarter of the nineteenth century, and emancipated
girls with college education went into it, cocking a snook in the faces of
their square elders."
415. Pember, G.H. Theosophy, Buddhism, and the Signs of the End.
London: Hodder and Stoughton, 1891. 80 pp.
This booklet is extracted from the last three chapters of the
author’s longer work, Earth’
s Earliest Ages and their Connection with
Modern Spiritualism and Theosophy. Mme. Blavatsky refers to it in a
letter to Edward Maitland, 1887, in item 388, and says, "In it the kind
man combs the hair of all of us with delightful impartiality. You, Mrs.
K., myself, C.C. Massey, Sinnett, Olcott, Edwin Arnold, Perfect Way,
Isis, etc., etc., all are boiled in the same pot into an olla podrida of
Satanism and Devil-worship. We are all servants of the Anti-Christ, and
subject to the ‘Spirits of the Air’ or devils. It reads like the nightmare of
an insane Methodist or Bible-lunatic."
416. Pfoundes, C. "The Theosophical Society as I Found it to be." The
Key (London), Aug.-Sept, 1891, pp. 34-35, 42-43.
Captain Pfoundes’brief transit through the Blavatsky Lodge, 1888-
39. Blavatsky’s letters quoted by him sum it up, "kill me if I know what
pou are driving at." Says to be continued, but never was.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
417. Prakasa, Sri. Annie Besant as Woman and as Leader. Adyar
Theosophical Publishing, 1940. Rept. Bombay: Bharatiya Vidyj
Bhavan, 1954, 1962.
Each reprint features a new introduction continuing the author’*
evaluation of Mrs. Besant, who was a close friend of his father
Bhagavan Das of Benares. Interesting for the description of th<
impression Besant made on a young Indian during her lecture tours o
India in the 1890s.
418. Prothero, Stephen Richard, "Henry Steel Olcott (1832-1907) an<
the construction of ‘protestant Buddhism.’" Ph.D. diss. Harvarc
University, Cambridge, 1990. vii, 322 pp.
Argues that Olcott is best understood "neither as an Americai
Protestant nor as an Asian Buddhist but as a liminoid figure who becaus<
of his standing betwixt and between the deep structures of his youth ant
the cultural and religious grammars of his adulthood was able to construe
a syncrestic, creole tradition."
4 1 9 .------- . "Henry Steel Olcott, Anagarika Dharmapala and th<
Development of the Maha Bodhi Society." In the Souvenir ofth
Maha Bodhi Society. Buddhagaya, December 1991, pp. 11-21.
Olcott’s contribution to the Maha Bodhi Society and his frequentl;
strained relationship with Dharmapala. "Its thesis is that Olcot
contributed significantly to the organization’s foundation and ongoin:
mission."
420. Quaestor Vitae. "The Real Origin of the Theosophical Society.
I Light (London), Nov. 23, 30, 1895. Rept in Theosophical Histor
1:7 (July 1986): 176-85.
Based on item 452, it conveys the feelings of Henry Newton
Treasurer of the Society in 1875, on the origin of the movement.
Histories and Biographies 129
421. Rajapakse, Reginald L. Ch. 8-10 in "Christian Missions,
Theosophy and Trade: A History of American Relations with
Ceylon 1815-1915." Ph.D. diss., University of Pennsylvania,
1973, pp. 296-352.
Ascertains the role of Theosophists in Buddhist education and
organization during the 1880s, especially Olcott’s part in the restoration
of offical Buddhists rights. "A pro-Blavatsky bias among Western
rheosophists has resulted in a virtual neglect of this American who
'touched the heart of Asia as no other white man before him had ever
lone.’"
422. Raschke, Carl A. "The American Mind Cure From Massachusetts
to California." Ch. 7 in The Interruption of Eternity. Modern
Gnosticism and the Origins of the New Religious Consciousness.
Chicago: Nelson-Hall, [1980], pp. 194-201.
"Theosophy claimed to have decanted for the layman the nectar of
\sian spirituality, but in the final tally it was through and through an
American consumer product." Olcott and Blavatsky "teamed up...to
Fabricate a new cult." "Theosophy and its satellite organizations clearly
setokened the baleful side of Gnostic religion in America."
423. Reid, John T. "A Colonel in Adyar." Ch. 6 in Bridges of
Understanding. N.p.: United States Information Service, n.d., pp.
29-31.
Brief mention of Olcott as "a vigorous dedicated forger of links"
between India and America.
424. Religious Tract and Book Society. Theosophy: What Is It?
Madras: The Religious Tract and Book Society, 1894. 16 pp.
"A reprint of Theosophy published by the Religious Tract Society,
vith a short Preface for Indian readers by the Author." Says that
130 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"Theosophy is Godless," and cites the Madras Christian College
Magazine's "Collapse of Koot Hoomi" as evidence.
425. Richardus, Peter. Ch. 2-3 in The Dutch Orientalist Johan van
Manen. Leiden: Kern Institute, 1989, pp. 4-14.
Explores the development ofTheosophy in the Netherlands and the
initial contact of Johan van Manen (1877-1943) with Theosophy there
during the 19th century.
426. Riepe, Dale. "The Later Transcendentalists." Ch. 3, Part 7, ir
The Philosophy of India and its Impact on American Thought.
Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas, 1970, pp. 62-67.
Covers only the initial impact via Isis Unveiled in the 1870s. Says
the book "could well be placed among the volumes of free thought insteac
of the occult."
427. Roderick, Colin. Ch. 13 In Mortal Bondage. The Strange Life O
j
Rosa Praed. Sydney: Angus and Robertson, 1948, pp. 125-35.
The influence of Indian Theosophist Mohini Chatteiji, whose
conversations in London, according to Roderick, were the model foi
Australian writer Rosa Campbell Praed’s 1886 novel The Brother of tht
Shadow.
428. Roe, Jill. Ch. 1-4 in Beyond Belief: Theosophy in Australia, 1879
1934. Kensington: New South Wales University Press, 1986, pp
1- 121.
Traces the development of Theosophy in Australia from its firs
informal phase in the 1880s, through the foothold gained by visits o
Olcott in 1891 and Mrs. Cooper-Oakley in 1893, to Besant’s tour in 189^
which resulted in the formation of the Australian Section of the Societ;
Histories and Biographies 131
in 1895. Considerable attention is devoted to local sources and the
interaction of the movement with contemporary issues.
4 2 9 .--------. "Viator: John Smith and Theosophy." In University and
Community in Nineteenth Century Sydney. Professor John Smith,
1821-1885, ed. by Roy Macleod. Sydney: University of Sydney,
1988, pp. 85-95.
Furnishes material on Smith and his connection with the University
of Sydney. Analyses his reason for joining the Theosophical Society
during his visit to Bombay in Jan. 1882 and the Theosophical phenomena
he witnessed.
430. Sangharakshita, Bhikshu. "AnagarikaDharmapala. A Biographical
Sketch." Maha Bodhi Society ofIndia, DiamondJubilee Souvenir,
1891-1951. Calcutta, 1952, pp. 9-65. Rept. Calcutta: Maha Bodhi
Society, 1956. Kandy, Ceylon: Buddhist Publication Society,
1964. 98 pp.
The life of David Hewavitame (1864-1933), who took the name
Anagarika Dharmapala, with special emphasis on the influence of
Blavatsky and Olcott on his decision to work for Buddhism. He founded
the Maha Bodhi Society in 1891 for the restoration of Buddha Gaya in
[ndia, the traditional site of the Buddha’s enlightenment.
431. Santucci, James. Theosophy and The Theosophical Society.
California State University Department of Religious Studies
Seminar Paper Series, no. 39, Fullerton, CA, Oct. 1984. 42 pp.
Rept. London: Theosophical History Centre, 1985. 35 pp.
Discusses the origin of the modem Theosophical movement and
ts formative meetings in detail, the function and evolution of its objects,
ind the impact of the movement. "Although non-theosophists may not
igree to the proposition of an underlying Wisdom-Religion, the
comparative study of religion in a sympathetic and open manner is an
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
idea whose time has already come, and this in part through the effort!
and accomplishments of the Theosophical Society."
4 3 2 .--------. "Theosophia: Origins of a Name." The American
Theosophist 75:10 (November 1987): 333-36.
Explores the meaning of the term Theosophy from its use in 187f
with theurgic overtones to the later shift of meaning as "Wisdon
Religion." Comparing its Greek origins, the author argues that it hai
become "transformed from a semantically restricted, literal sense to a titl<
for a particular system that encompases and encapsulates this branch o
knowledge."
433. Sarda, Har Bilas. "Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky." Ch
32 in Life ofDctyanand Saraswati, World Teacher. Amjer, India
N.p., 1946, pp. 522-92.
Features extensive extracts from Dayananda’s correspondence witl
the Theosophists. Raises a number of important questions about th<
motives of the Theosophical amalgamation with the Arya Samaj of Indi
in 1878.
434. Sarvadhikary, Deva Prasad. "Early Tales of Theosophy in India.
Calcutta Review 45:2-3 (Nov.-Dec. 1932): 271-93.
Prints the correspondence of Olcott and Blavatsky during 1877-8
to the Bengali writer Peary Chand Mittra of Calcutta.
435. Satthiandhan, S. Theosophy: An Appeal to My Countrymen
Madras: The Christian Literature Society, 1893. 18 pp.
"Mrs. Besant’s visit to India has aroused once more th
enthusiasm of my countrymen in this weird and obscure creed," so th
author has penned this short paper "to consider calmly the claims whic
are put forth on behalf of Theosophy by some of its adherents." Calls th
Histories and Biographies 133
"theosophical creed” indefinite, and criticizes Besant’s "presumption” for
trying to expound Indian philosophy without being acquainted with the
literature in its original language.
436. Sharma, Sri Ram. "Swami Dayananda and the Theosophical
Society." Punjab University Research Bulletin (Arts) 4:1 (April
1973): 117-35.
One of the few in-depth studies of the relationship between the
\rya Samaj and the Theosophical Society, marred unfortunately by wrong
dates and reliance on secondary sources.
437. Sharpe, Eric J. "The Early Theosophists and the Interpretation of
the Bhagavad Gita," Theosophy in Australia 43:3 (September
1979): 50-57. Rept. in The Universal Gita. Western Images of the
Bhagavadgita, a Bicentenary Survey. London: Duckworth, 1985,
pp. 69-96, 103-17.
The Theosophical contribution toward the emergence of the
3hagavad-gita as a world scripture. Sharpe notes that before Theosophists
ook up the text, it was hardly regarded as the epitome of Indian
)hilosophy that it now is. Stresses the allegorical method of interpretation
lsed by Subba Row, Mohini Chatteiji, Annie Besant, and W.Q. Judge,
ind the influence of this method on Gandhi.
438. Sheldon, Henry C. Theosophy and New Thought. New York: The
Abingdon Press, 1916, pp. 11-125.
Not a comparison, but two separate tracts: one dealing with
rheosophy, pages 11-125, and the second part on the history and
philosophy of the New Thought movement.
439. Shinn, George Wolfe. "What is Theosophy?" Ch. 2 in Some
Modern Substitutes for Christianity. New York: Thomas
Whittaker, 1896, pp. 21-32.
134 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Dr. Shinn, Rector of Grace Church, Newton, Mass., says "It is
not an easy task to tell what it is," but makes an attempt in Question and
Answer form, comparing the teachings of Theosophy to Christianity.
Comes to the conclusion that "Christianity is the religion of hope;
Theosophy, the religion of despair."
440. [Shirley, Ralph.] "Notes of the Month." The Occult Review
(London) 37:5 (May 1923): 267-79.
Long editorial review of Sinnett’s posthumous Early Days oj
Theosophy in Europe (236). "Mr. Sinnett’s book is preeminently valuable
from an historical standpoint and will serve the good purpose of rescuing
the portrait of a great personality from the region of myth and romance.
In reading it, however, we should be on our guard to discount the
personal element, and not lay too great stress on passages where the
author’s own predilections and prejudices colour the narrative."
441. Smith, Warren Sylvester. "Spiritualism and the London
Theosophists." Ch. 2, Part 5, in The London Heretics, 1870-1914.
New York: Dodd, Mead & Company, 1968, pp. 141-68.
"The impact of Madame Blavatsky on the London intelligensu
during her fleeting visit of 1884 and during her residence there during the
last four years of her life makes it impossible to ignore either her or hei
organization in any consideration of the local heresies of the day.'
Describes the Spiritualist scene in London at the time of her arrival, hei
career and that of Annie Besant.
442. Snell, Merwin-Marie. "Modem Theosophy in Its Relation tc
Hinduism and Buddhism." The Biblical World (Chicago), Mar.,
Apr. 1895, pp. 200-205, 259-65.
"Theosophy, while not identical with any of the so-called secrei
traditions of Buddhism, is in fact based upon, or allied to the Yoga ‘can
and Tantrika (Kala ‘Cakra) schools of Mahayana; although, as I have
already intimated, it is so much more Hinduized than even they are tha
Histories and Biographies 135
its center of gravity unquestionably falls a long way within the lines of
Hinduism."
443. Stead, William T. Portraits and Autographs: An Album for the
People. London: The Review of Reviews, 1890, 1891, pp. 124-
25, 151.
Portraits of H.P.B. and Annie Besant along with the Archbishop
:>fCanterbury, Queen Victoria, and other eminent Victorians. Gives note
From Besant to Stead while preparing the review of The Secret Doctrine
For his Pall Mall Gazatte.
4 4 4 .--------. "Mrs. Annie Besant." The Review of Reviews 4:22
(October 1891): 349-67. Rept. as Annie Besant. A Character
Sketch, 1891. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1946. x,
100 pp.
Says the most marvellous of all Theosophical phenomena was the
conversion of Mrs. Besant. "We all tried our level best to work that
niracle, but we failed. Madame Blavatsky succeeded."
445. Steiner, Rudolf. The Occult Movement in the Nineteenth Century
and its Relation to Modern Culture. Trans, by D.S. Osmond.
London: Rudolf Steiner Press, 1973. 192 pp.
Ten lectures in Domach, Germany, Oct. 10 to 25, 1915, giving
heiner’s version of the occult history of the 19th century. "At a moment
vhen H.P.Blavatsky had already acquired an untold amount of occult
mowledge through having worked with the American Lodge [of the
Occult Brotherhood], she had to be expelled from it, because it was
liscovered that there was something political in the background." She
hreatened to reveal what she knew, was put into "Occult imprisonment,"
►
u
twas released through the aid of certain Indian Occultists who used her
or their own end. Lecture 2 expounds this theory, but throughout the
>ook there are references to other occult events. Owes much to item 358.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
446. Stoddart, Christina Mary ["Inquire Within"]. "The Theosophical
Society." Ch. 2 in Light-bearers of Darkness. London: Boswell
Publishing Co., 1930, pp. 25-27. Rept. Hawthorne, CA: Christian
Book Club of America, 1963, 1969, 1983.
Relies on Guenon’s "well-documented information on the Theos.
Soc. showing its gradual growth into an instrument in the hands of some
‘inner Government of the World, ’an Invisible Power." Goes mainly after
Besant. The chapter on Theosophy is only a perfunctory preliminary tc
the author’s revelations about the Order of the Stella Matutina, where she
was "for some years a ruling chief."
447. Strappini, W.D. "Theosophy and Its Evidences." The Dublin
Review 110 (April 1892): 337-50.
Reviews the corroboration for Theosophic teachings provided b>
Besant’s Theosophy and Its Evidences (1480) and Judge’s Epitome oj
Theosophical Teachings (1671). The writer claims that they offer nc
substantiation. Uses the "Brooch Incident" at Simla, Oct. 3, 1880, as ar
example of the vague quality of Theosophical evidence.
448. Summerfield, Henry. Ch. 1-3 in That Myriad-Minded Man: A
Biography of George William Russell, "AE" 1867-1935. Gerrards
Cross, Buckinghamshire: Colin Smythe, 1975; Totowa, NJ:
Rowan and Littlefield, 1975, pp. 16-84.
Russell’s growing involvement with Theosophy from hh
introduction to the subject through Charles Johnston in 1885, the
development of Theosophy in Ireland in the 1890s, and the influence or
him of James Morgan Pryse, who came over to Dublin after Mme
Blavatsky’s death.
449. Suntharalingam, R. "Hindu Revivalism and the Age of Consen
Bill Controversy." Ch. 7 in Politics and Nationalist Awakening it
South India, 1852-1891. Tucson: University of Arizona Press foi
the Association for Asian Studies, 1974, pp. 288-311.
137
In-depth discussion of the relationship between the Theosophists
and Hindu revivalism in South India, which is described as "a direct and
intimate one."
450. Taylor, Anne. Ch. 19-22 in Annie Besant: A Biography. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1992, pp. 222-81.
Besant’s conversion to Theosophy, an account of the workings of
the Theosophical Society (from Ransom, item 219), and her first visit to
India and subsequent founding of the Central Hindu College.
451. Theobald, Morell. "Theosophy.”Light (London), Dec. 12, 1891,
pp. 590-93.
"It seems to me that if we want to understand a science or
religion, or a blending of the two, as is Theosophy, we should go back
to its inception." The Founders were Spiritualists, "pure and simple," in
1874, and Reincarnation is their distinctive point of departure. Examines
this teaching in contradistinction to Spiritualism which speaks of growth
in the spirit-world. Gives some firsthand reports from Olcott.
452. "Theosophy’s Origin Exposed." New York Herald, Nov. 10,
1895, sec. 6, p. 2.
Interview with Henry J. Newton, Treasurer of the Theosophical
Society in 1875, on its origin. Newton claimed not only to have proposed
the Society, been appointed its first Chairman, but also to have suggested
its name. Says all this "India business was an after thought," and that the
Society died a natural death after three years.
453. Thobum, Bishop J.M. "Theosophy." Methodist Review (N.Y.)
74:4 (July-Aug. 1892): 530-40.
Narrates the history of Theosophy in India from Blavatsky’s
arrival in 1879 to her departure in 1885. Calls it "the most extraordinary
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
imposture of the present century," and that "its exposure has been
complete and final, and that, so far as India at least is concerned, it has
and can have no future."
454. Thomas, Wendell. "American Cults of Partly Hindu Origin." Ch.
7, Part 8, in Hinduism Invades America. New York: The Beacon
Press, 1930, pp. 228-36.
Theosophy gets a brief nod, along with Christian Science, New
Thought, Unity, as groups that have laid the ground for the invasion ol
Hinduism into America.
455. Tillett, Gregory. Ch. 1-8 in The Elder Brother. A biography O
j
Charles Webster Leadbeater. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul
1982, pp. 1-76.
These chapters cover Leadbeater’s association with the
Theosophical Society in the 19th century, tracing his rise from ai
Anglican curate to the leading clairvoyant in the Society. The big newi
of the book is the variance of Leadbeater’s birthday, Feb. 16, 1854, fron
what he claimed, Feb. 17, 1847.
4 5 6 .--------. "Charles Webster Leadbeater, 1854-1934. A Biographica
Study." Ph.D. diss. University of Sydney, 1986. 1196 pp.
Elaborates on item 455. The first half covers Leadbeater’s life u]
to the beginning of the 20th century.
457. Tindall, A.F. "Theosophy." Light (London), Dec. 10, 1881, pp
389-90.
Extracts from a paper read before the British National Associatioi
of Spiritualists. Says that "Theosophy is not antagonistic to Spiritualism
but rather a broadening of the latter."
Histories and Biographies 139
458. Tollenaere, Herman de. "Marx and Engels on Spiritualism and
Theosophy." Theosophical History 4:2 (April 1992): 45-48.
Short reference by Engels on Annie Besant. "These three lines in
a private letter are all Engels (or Marx) ever wrote on the Theosophical
Society."
459. Tuttle, A.H. "The Romances of Theosophy." Methodist Review
(New York) 81 (January 1899): 20-36.
On the fiction works of Theosophists, i.e. Sinnett’s novel Karma,
and the moral code they espouse. "We...come from our study with the
conviction that theosophy is itself a romance." Ends by criticizing
Blavatsky.
* Waterman, Adlai. See Carrithers, Walter A.
460. Webster, Nesta H. "Secret Societies in England." Ch. 12 in Secret
Societies and Subversive Movements. London: Boswell Printing &
Publishing, 1928, pp. 297-300.
Elaborates Guenon’s thesis that the "Masters" from whom
Madame Blavatsky received her teaching were European cabalists. Ties
this in as part of a "Jewish world-conspiracy working through Grand
Orient Masonry, Theosophy, Pan-Germanism, International Finance, and
Social Revolution." Is more oriented toward Besant’s Co-Masonic
activities.
461. Welsh, Rev. R. Ethol. The Truth about Theosophy, and the Truth
in it. London: Baines and Scarsbrook, 1891. 24 pp.
"Its strong point," according to this lecture, "is its account of man,
his sevenfold nature, and his secret powers." Lengthy quotes from the
Rev. Patterson in the British Weekly, May 21, 1891, and the Madras
140 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Christian College Magazine of 1884. Includes plan of the Shrine room at
Adyar.
462. "What Is Theosophy? Spread of the New Religion." New York
Herald, Aug. 18, 1889, p. 21. Rept. in Theosophical Siftings
2:11. London: Theosophical Publishing Co., 1889. 18 pp.
"As Buddhism was the repudiation of sacerdotal and ritualistic
Brahmanism, and Protestanism a revolution against Romanism, so the
existing Esoteric Buddhism is an upheaval against the prevailing
materialism of this day and generation. It is one of the most astonishing
events in history, this reaction toward occultism and mysticism, in the
face of the most practical and mechanical age that history records."
Offers a summation of Theosophical tenets mainly from The Secret
Doctrine.
463. Wheeler, Andrew Carpenter ["Nym Crinkle"]. Annie Besant on
Theosophy. Madras: Published by the Manager of The
Theosophist, 1893. 42 pp.
A reprint of two interviews with Annie Besant, one by "Nym
Crinkle" in the N.Y. World of Feb. 26, 1893, and another from the
Weekly Star, Mar. 11, 1893, entitled "How Annie Besant Works."
464. [Wiggin, Rev. James Henry.] "Rosicrucianism in New York." The
Liberal Christian (New York), Sept. 4, 1875, p. 4.
Early record of the discussions being held at Mme. Blavatsky’s
rooms in Irving Place soon after her arrival in New York from
Philadelphia and the people present.
465.
3-4.
. "The Cabala." The Liberal Christian, Sept. 25, 1875, pp.
Histories and Biographies 141
A report of the gathering where the Theosophical Society was
suggested by Olcott after a lecture by George Henry Felt on the Cabala.
Reprinted in item 342.
466. Williams, Gertrude Marvin. Ch. 15-20 in The Passionate Pilgrim:
The Life ofAnnie Besant. New York: Coward-McCann, 1931, pp.
185-245.
Besant, who had "tried and discarded every phase af radical
thought for over 15 years," is depicted by Williams as having succumbed
to Blavatsky’s hypnotic charm after a few meetings. Heavy on description
and paraphrasing, but no indication of sources.
467. Wimalaratne, K.D.G. Buddhist Revival in Sri Lanka. [Dehiwala,
Sri Lanka: The Author,] 1985. 21 pp.
Written to commemorate the centenary of the Buddhist flag and
the declaration of Wesak as a public holiday. Olcott’s efforts in obtaining
Wesak as a holiday are acknowledged but credit for the design of the flag
is given to C.P. Gunewardena.
468. Yeats, William Butler. "The Way of Wisdom." The Speaker,
April 14, 1900, pp. 40-41. Rept. as "The Pathway," in Vol. 8 of
The Collected Works in Verse and Prose of William Butler Yeats.
Stratford-on-Avon: The Shakespeare Head Press, 1908, pp.
191-96.
"Most of us who are writing books in Ireland today have some
kind of spiritual philosophy; and some among us when we look backward
upon our lives see the coming of a young Brahmin into Ireland helped to
give our vague thoughts a shape." Gives something of Mohini Chatteiji’s
philosophy.
CHAPTER 3
Background Works
In 1895 members of the Society for Psychical Research had an
analysis published of "The Sources of Madame Blavatsky’s Writings" by
William Emmette Coleman. Coleman’s paper formed an Appendix to
V.S. Solovyov’s A Modern Priestess of Isis (item 1913), and his
accusation of "wholesale plagiarism" has been the prime source for
dismissing Mme. Blavatsky’s writings. Since Coleman’s criticisms are
dealt with in detail in Chapter 8, only a short notice of his charges will
be given here. Using Blavatsky’s first book Isis Unveiled as an
illustration, he claims that "About 1400 books are quoted from and
referred to in this work; but, from the 100 books which its author
possessed, she copied everything in Isis taken from and relating to the
other 1300." He then proceeds to list the works she took her source
material, or plagiarized from, as he terms it.
For anyone unfamiliar with her books and those that he cites, his
inventory seems impressive, for he tabulates the number of passages
taken from each work. On closer reading however, his list shows only 15
books yielding over 20 citations, the rest supplying an average of 6 to 10.
This means that in addition to the 15, she read through 85 books, most
of them four or five hundred pages in length, to pull out as little as two
or three citations dealing with some classical or medieval text. The works
that gave her the most references were, as Coleman admits, made up
"almost wholly of quotations from and summaries of the writing of other
authors, strung together by connecting remarks."
Putting this section together, I found that the titles Coleman listed
were actually the ones Blavatsky referred to the most frequently in Isis
143
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine. Coleman’s list is further misleading
for he makes no attempt to deal with what she did not "plagiarize" from,
that is, those used as primary sources. Nor did he take the time to track
down the vast number of articles from journals that she mentions. She
seems to have drawn on anything that would support her thesis, not only
books, pamphlets, journals, unpublished material, but even
correspondence. In Isis she gives letters from the Hon. John O’Sullivan
on a seance in Paris, Charles Sotheran on masonry, Albert Rawson on
initiation rites witnessed among the Druzes in the Middle East.
Theosophists are depicted as having a blind adulation for everything
Blavatsky wrote, but for the past century there has been a constant
checking, re-checking, and verification of the data in her books. In 1919
the Theosophical Press at Point Loma, Calif., brought out an edition of
Isis Unveiled revised by a number of Theosophical scholars, among them
Prof. William Gates, a pioneer of Mayan studies in America. Gates wrote
of the results of his research when the revision was still in progress to
Katherine Tingley, Leader of the Society, May 8, 1912, and, as his
findings on "how Isis was written" have not been printed before, I quote
a number of extracts.
A certain Spiritualistic antagonist a number of years ago went
to much work to tabulate the quotations in Isis, to show that
they were all "cribbed" from some few books at second
hand—by which he sought to prove that Isis was a mere faked
hotch-potch. It is an old-time dodge to take a few demonstrable
facts, and then by throwing a certain light over them, to use
them to prove some charge. As if one were to say that since
poetry is written in verse, therefore whatever is written in verse
must be poetry;—an argument which may indeed weigh with
those people who do not know poetry when they see it—which
is just the sort it is intended to appeal to. But it is the worst
possible tactics to accept the gage on the ground thus laid and
prepared for you, by starting to deny the few facts thus
carefully selected. Better find out whether they are facts; and
if they are, then seek to put them in the right light, as part of
the real question.
The other theory is much more difficult; for it is also, it must
be—a partial truth, and put forth by H.P.B.’s "avowed"
Background Works
supporters and friends. It started with the fact that H.P.B. is
known not to have been a book-student in the usual way; that
her working shelf of books was very small (according to all
accounts hardly a hundred volumes); and yet there are 3000 to
4000 quotations in the two vols., a very large number of them
to old and practically unprocurable books. From this arose the
theory that the very large proportion of the quotations in Isis
(that is, practically all the references to such old books as the
Kabbala Denudata, and all authors not on her shelves) were
read by her in the astral light. And then a ludicrous appendix
to this theory, founded not on knowledge of the facts, but on
guessing as to how some of the (? possible "errors") got in, is
that H.P.B., thus reading in the astral, overlooked to reverse
the picture backwards, "which might easily account for our
inability to find her quotations on the pages she gave for them."
In short, so intent on an astral phenomenon and wonder, that
they try to explain all they don’t know by that; and instead of
looking at the real greatness of Isis, they look at this only,
claim the whole writing as an "astral miracle," and then leave
some one to come along and prove that when H.P.B. thus
copied down these passages and references from the
"astraV—she did it wrong. Instead of a seer and knower of
truths, they make of her a half-competent seer of astral books
and pages—a mere astral amanuensis, with lots of errors.
All my life in my own studies, I have tried to get back to "the
original sources of information"; the first-hand. And no one
who has not tried that can know how almost impossible it is.
Our modem literature is all at the nth hand in quotations; much
less the second. And whether to go back of the book in hand,
which provides the reference one needs to use, must in every
case be left to the judicious discretion of the writer; to his
discrimination, to his insight as to whether the reference is or
not substantially fair; whether the labor involved in going back
to the hard-to-get original text would or not be worth the
trouble. And a writer who knows his subject WILL have an
unerring discrimination as to whether any such quotation, at
bottom is really apropos and in point—far beyond that of any
one who merely knows the literature of the subject; and
146 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
immeasurably beyond the plagiarist. And that answers the
whole question.
At the very beginning of this present work, I concluded, from
the way H.P.B. refers to certain works, and the wayfootnotes
are bunched, that a certain limited number of modem works
must have been in her actual hands, and that reference to these
would provide a very large number of the footnotes, especially
to the more hard-to-get works. 7 have verified this over and
over again; and I have reconstructed H.P.B's working
bookshelf practically complete.
One thing I soon learned, which helped greatly. H.P.B., having
to take up so many subjects to weave into her pattern, would
take a particular work, use it for a number of pages, and give
as footnotes confirmatory the citations of other old authors
there quoted. Once this was proved, it made my work a great
deal simpler; and I have proved it over and over again. After
I had gotten well into the work, I would often say to myself: I
believe I want such a book, for the references in this section of
the text. H.P.B. was perfectly fair with the writers she took
these quotations from. I do not recall an author from which I
have found her to extract "second-hand quotations," that she
does not explicitly mention that author. Of course she does not
repeat at every citation, "Pliny as quoted by Dunlap"; "Kabbala
Denudata, as quoted by Mackenzie," etc.; but she does it
enough, and in the immediate connection, to lead one to the
very work she had physically on her shelf.
Also, there is a marked difference in the way she uses books on
her shelf, and those apparently not there; the first get squeezed
of every bit of meat there is in them of value to her point; the
second get quoted once or twice and no more.
The works she uses most are general histories of her subject,
containing just the confirmatory references and quotations she
needed....A few of these general writers and compilers she
uses, especially Dunlap, whom she uses most, are careless and
confusing in their footnotes, and often demonstrably erroneous.
Background Works 147
It is these that have given me trouble, and not H.P.B.’s own
evident work. But on the other hand, going over the body of
books I have listed, they constitute the standard literature of the
subject, they are the very best books any one could get, and
most of them are as thoroughly reliable as any one can hope to
get. If you deny H.P.B. the right to use them in just the way
she did, you must equally deny every historian a similar right.
And if at times we find their own apt turns and phrases worked
in and used, you must destroy your Shakespeare and your
Moliere before you can say a word. That the work is worth
doing, lies in that it is well done. And now that I have been
through it, on the principle I gave myself, to take nothing for
granted, to adopt no conclusion I could not defend with
absolute confidence and honesty, I am convinced of the work,
apart from everything else one must think of it and her, as a
triumph of straight literary scholarship—and I do not care who
says the contrary. (T.S. Archives, Pasadena)
Instead of elaborating further on the general principles used in
Blavatsky’s books, an example of how she actually incorporated source
naterial into her text will be more germane to this chapter. In her second
najor work. The Secret Doctrine, Horace Hayman Wilson’s translation
)f the Vishnu Purana, edited by Fitzedward Hall, served her better than
my other book, supplying almost 130 references. The title page of each
volume announces that the translation is edited with "notes derived chiefly
:rom other puranas" appearing here for the first time.
On page 89, Vol. 2, S.D., subsection "On the Identity and
differences of the Incarnating Powers," H.P.B. discusses the Progenitors
>fMan, "called in India ‘Fathers,’ Pitara or Pitris." Stating that there are
seven classes of Pitris," she turns to the Hindu Puranas for support,
-ine 15 of that page, "moreover, the Vayu Purana declares..." compares
vith Wilson’s note on Chapter XIV, Book III (V.P., Vol. 3, p. 158),
Again, the Vayu Purana declares the seven orders of the Pitris have
>een, originally, the first gods, the Vairajas, whom Brahma, with the eye
)f Yoga, beheld the eternal spheres, and who are the gods of gods." He
•roceeds to give the Sanskrit sloka for corroboration. H.P.B. gives
[uotation marks, no source, beginning "with the eye of Yoga..."
Allowing on line 18, "and the Matsya adds..." compares with Wilson’s
ote (vol. 3, p. 159), "The Matsya agrees with this latter statement, and
148 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
adds, that the gods worship them" (gives Sanskrit sloka). Line 19 adds,
"the Harivansa (S.I, 935) distinguishes..." compares with Wilson (Vol.
3, 159), "The Hari Vamsa has the same statement, but more precisely
distinguishes the Vairajas as one class only of the incorporeal Pitris."
Line 24, quotation marks, "In the Raivata Manvantara..." to "deities
called Rajasas," is a quote from Fitzedward Hall (Vol. 3, p. 17), giving
a variation on the sloka. H.P.B. has "Manvantara" for his "patriarchal
period." She passes down a few lines and says, "As remarked by a far
more able Sanskritist than Wilson, Mr. Fitzedward Hall," and gives a
quotation by him on the derivation of the term "Manasa" with source
"(Vishnu Purana Book III., ch. I, p. 17 footnote)," the only time the
book is cited on her page. With all the other passages she is quoting a
translation or a summation, but when she gives a personal opinion, she
identifies the source.
Since the intention of this chapter is to help the reader identify the
background material that contributed toward the superstructure of
Blavatsky’s two major books, the number of titles for each has been
limited to fifty. In this, I have tried to indicate the editions she actually
did resort to. Yet these are not necessarily the books she cites the most.
In Isis she quotes heavily from Norberg’s 1816 Latin translation of the
Codex Nazaraeus, which prints the text in Syriac on each corresponding
page. I do not believe she had that volume on hand, but Dunlap’s Sod:
The Son of Man (item 484), translates enough of the relevant parts to
provide her with a working text. But I must admit that I am at a loss to
decide whether she did have Movers 1841 Die Phonizery another work
she relies on heavily.
A number of the volumes Blavatsky used, bearing her signature,
have survived, and I have mentioned those editions. We are further aided,
in reconstructing the actual library she did have, by the 1886 catalogue
for the Adyar Library, composed partially of books she had left behind
in India. When she moved to England in 1887, her books were marked
with a circular stamp bearing her initials and her address in London. This
helps to further distinguish those that were later added to the Adyar
Archives of the Theosophical Society.
The pedigree of the works used in Isis Unveiled and The Secret
Doctrine form a marked contrast with the general literature of the occult
that developed in the 19th century (see part C). The Theosophical Society
helped establish a whole printing industry for the occult, including
translations from earlier hermetic, kabbalistic, and alchemical authors, but
Background Works 149
these works are not in the same category as the majority of what
Blavatsky utilized. No attempt has been made to deal with the vast
literature of Spiritualism, now forgotten, that existed at the time of
Blavatsky’s writing, and which she paid scant attention to in her books.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
A. Major Works cited in Isis Unveiled
469. Alabaster, Henry. The Wheel of the Law. Buddhism illustrates
from Siamese sources. London: Trubner & Co., 1871. lviii, 323
pp.
470. Amberley, John, Viscount. An Analysis of Religious Belief
London: Trubner & Co., 1876. Vol. I: xvi, 496. II: vii, 512.
471. Britten, Emma Hardinge, ed. Art Magic; or, Mundane, Sub
Mundane and Super-Mundane Spiritism. New York: Published bj
the Author, 1876. 467 pp.
Adyar Archives: copy was inscribed "To Madame Blavatsky ii
token of friendship and sympathy from her friend Emma Hardingi
Britten."
472. Bunsen, Christian C.J. Egypt's Place in Universal History. Trans
from the German by Charles H. Cottrell. London: Longman
Brown, Green and Longmans. 1848. Vol. I: lii, 739. 1867. Vol
V: xvii, 943.
German text: Aegypten's Stelle in der Weltgeschichte, Hamburg
1845-57. Mainly vols. 1 and 5 used. Vol. 5 contains "The funeral ritual
or Book of the Dead," trans. by Samuel Birch, pp. 789-854.
473. [Cassels, Walter R.] Supernatural Religion: An Inquiry into th
Reality ofDivine Revelation. London: Longmans, Green & Co.
1874-77. 3 vols. 5th ed. rev. Boston: Roberts Brothers, 1875
Vol. I: xx, 485. II: vi, 512.
Adyar Library.
Background Works 151
474. Champollion-Figeac, Jacques J. Egypte ancienne, Paris: Firmin
Didot freres, 1839, 1856, 1876. 500 pp.
475. Constant, Alphonse Louis [Eliphas Levi]. Dogme et rituel de la
haute magie. Paris: 1854-56. Rept. Paris: Germer Bailliere, 1861.
Tome I: 371. Tome II: 448.
Adyar Library.
4 7 6 .--------. La Science des esprits. Paris: Germer Bailliere, 1865. 507
pp.
477. Cory, Isaac Preston. Ancient Fragments of the Phoenician,
Chaldean, Egyptian, Tyrian, Carthaginian, Indian, Persian, and
other writers. London: William Pickering, 1828. xxviii, 129 pp.
2nd ed., 1832. lix, 362. New & enlarged ed. by E. Richmond
Hodges. London: Reeves & Turner, 1876. xxxvi, 214.
1876 edition eliminates the Chaldean Oracles.
478. Crookes, William. Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism,
London: J. Bums, 1874. 112 pp.
Adyar Archives: in Vol. 5 of bound pamphlets. Signature: "H.P.
Blavatsky" on inside front cover.
479. Crowell, Eugene. The Identity of Primitive Christianity and
Modern Spiritualism, New York: The Author, 2nd ed., 1875. Vol.
I: xiii, 523. II: xi, 516.
Adyar Library.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
480. Denton, William, and Elizabeth. The Soul of Things; or
Psychometric Researches and Discoveries. Boston: 1863. 3rd rev.
ed. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 1866. viii, 370. 6th rev. ed.
Boston: W. Denton, 1873-75. 3 vols.
Adyar Library.
481. Draper, John William. History of the Conflict between Religion
and Science. New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1875. xxii, 373 pp.
Adyar Library. Isis Unveiled, I, 21, refers to it as M
a great book
with a very bad title."
482. Dunlap, Samuel Fales. Vestiges ofthe Spirit-History ofMan. New
York: D. Appleton & Co., 1858. vii, 404 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / New York" on inside
flyleaf. The book is made up of 13 chapters arranged under subject
matter such as, Fire-worship, Cosmogony, the Logos, Polytheism,
world-religions, Brahminism and Buddhism.
4 8 3 .--------. Sod. The Mysteries of Adoni. London: Williams and
Norgate, 1861. 216 pp.
Adyar Library.
4 8 4 .------- . Sod. The Son of Man. London: Williams and Norgate,
1861. xxii, 152 pp.
Adyar Library.
485. Ennemoser, Joseph. The History of Magic. Trans, from tht
German by William Howitt. London: Henry G. Bohn, 1854. Vol
I: xvi, 471. IT: 518.
Background Works 153
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" top of title-page.
German text: Geschichte der Magie, Leipzig, 1844.
486. [Forsyth, J.S.] Demonologia; or, natural knowledge Revealed;
being an Expose ofAncient and Modern Superstitions. London: J.
Bumpus, 1827. Rept. London: A.K. Newman & Co., 1831. xvi,
438 pp.
487. Franck, Adolphe. La Kabbale, ou la philosophic religieuse des
Hebreux. Paris: L. Hachette, 1843. 412 pp.
488. Gasparin, Agenor, Count de. Science vs. Modern Spiritualism: A
Treatise on Turning Tables, The Supernatural in General, and
Spirits. Trans, from the French by E.W. Robert. New York:
Kiggins & Kellogg, 1857. Vol. I: xxii, 470. II: 469.
French text: Des Tables tournantes, du surnaturel en general et
les esprits, Paris, 1854.
489. Gougenot des Mousseaux, Henri Roger. Moeurs et pratiques des
demons, ou des esprits du spiritisme ancien et moderne. Paris:
1854. Nouv. ed. H. Plon, 1865. xi, 436 pp.
Adyar Library.
4 9 0 .--------. La Magie au dix-neuvieme siecle, ses agents, ses verites,
ses mensonges. Paris: 1860. Nouv. ed., rev., corn, augm., H.
Plon, 1864. xxxiv, 464 pp.
Adyar Library.
4 9 1 .--------. Les Hautsphenomenes de la magie, precedes du spiritisme
antique. Paris: H. Plon, 1864. xxxviii, 480 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Adyar Library.
492. Haug, Martin. The Aitareya Brahmanam of the Rigveda,
containing Earliest Speculations of the Brahmans on the meaning
ofthe sacrificalprayers and on the origin, performance, and sense
ofthe Rites of Vedic Religion. Bombay: Government Central Book
Depot; London: Trubner & Co., 1863. Vol. I: ix, 80, Sanskrit
text: 226 + vi corrigenda. Vol II: vii, trans. 535.
493. Higgins, Godfrey. Anacalypsis, An Attempt to Draw Aside the Veil
of the Saitic Isis; or, an Inquiry into the Origin of Languages
Nations, and Religions. London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown,
and Longman, 1836. Vol. I: xxxiii, 867. II: xi, 519.
494. [Hone, William, ed.] The Apocryphal New Testament. London:
W. Hone, 1820. 271 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on top of title-page
and inside fly-leaf. "HPB/17 Lansdowne Rd" stamp on top of p. iii
Hone’s edition incorporated translations of Jeremiah Jones for the
Apocryphal books, and Archbishop Wake for the Apostolic fathers.
495. Howitt, William. The History of the Supernatural. Philadelphia
J.B. Lippincott& Co., 1862. Vol. I: 519. 1863. Vol. II: 500.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on flyleaf of botl
volumes.
496. Huxley, Thomas Henry. On the Physical Basis of Life. Nev
Haven, Conn.: Charles C. Chatfield & Co., 1870, 1871. 35 pp.
Publisher’s series "Half Hours with Modem Scientists." Huxley’
lay sermon was delivered in Edinburgh, Nov. 8, 1868, and published ii
thz Fortnightly Review, London, Feb. 1869. Adyar Library.
Background Works 155
497. Inman, Thomas. Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names.
London and Liverpool: The Author, 1868. Vol. I: viii, 789. 1869.
Vol. II: 1, 1028. 2nd ed. London: Trubner, 1872-73. Rept. N.Y.:
A.K. Butts & Co., 1874.
4 9 8 .--------. Ancient Pagan and Modern Christian Symbolism. London:
1869. 2nd ed., rev. & enl. New York: J.W. Bouton, 1875. xxxix,
147 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / New York 1877" on
nside flyleaf. Bouton’s edition added an essay "On Baal Worship, on the
\ssyrian Sacred ‘Grove,’ and other allied Symbols," by John Newton.
4 9 9 .--------. Ancient Faiths and Modern. New York: J.W. Bouton;
London: Trubner & Co., 1876. xx, 478, lv.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / Cor. Sec. of the
rheosophical Society" on top of dedication page. The book’s subtitle is
A Dissertation upon Worships, Legends and Divinities in Central and
Vestem Asia, Europe, and elsewhere, before the Christian era, showing
tieir relations to Religious customs as they now exist."
500. Jacolliot, Louis. The Bible in India: Hindoo Origin ofHebrew and
Christian Revelation, London: 1870. Rept. New York: Carleton,
1877. 325 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / N.Y. 1877" top of
tie-page. H.P.B. also had a copy of the French 6th edition, La Bible
ans ITnde (vie de Iezeus Christna), Paris: Lacroix, 1876, 391 pp.,
'hich bears her signature on the flyleaf, as part of the complete works
f Jacolliot received from the Hon. John O’Sullivan when Vol. I of Isis
ras going to press.
501. . Christna et le Christ. Paris: A. Lacroix, 1876. 380 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Adyar Archives.
5 0 2 .--------. Le spiritisme dans le monde. Paris: A. Lacroix, 1875. 361
pp.
Subtitled "L’initiation et les sciences occultes dans l’lnde et che2
tous les peuples de l’antiquite."
503. Jennings, Hargrave. The Rosicrucians, their Rites and Mysteries.
London: John Camden Hotten, 1870. xv, 339 pp.
Adyar Library.
504. King, Charles William. The Gnostics and their Remains, Ancien
and Mediaeval. London: Bell and Daldy, 1864. xiii, 251 pp.
505. Knight, Richard Payne. The Symbolical Language ofAncient Ar
and Mythology. New York: J.W. Bouton, 1876. xxvii, 240 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on p. iii, abovt
Preface. The original edition was published in London 1818. Bouton’:
"new edition" featured an introduction, additions, and notes by Alexandei
Wilder.
506. Lundy, John P. Monumental Christianity; or the Art am
Symbolism of the Primitive Church. New York: J.W. Bouton
1876. xviii, 453 pp.
Adyar Library.
\ 507. Mackenzie, Kenneth R.H. The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia c
\ History, Rites, Symbolism, and Biography. London: Bro. Johi
\ Hogg, 1877. 782 pp.
Background Works 157
Originally issued in six parts over a two year interval, 1875-77.
508. Mirville, J.E. de. Questions des Esprits et de leurs manifestations
diverses. Paris: H. Vrayet de Surcy, 1863. vi, 189 pp.
Adyar Archives. This volume is the Appendix to the first part of
Des Esprits: "Manifestations Fluidiques," 2nd ed.
509. Muller, F. Max. Chips From a German Workshop. London: 1867.
New York: Charles Scribner & Co., 1869, 1874. Vol. I: xxxiii,
374. II: 402.
Adyar Library. Published in four vols., mainly vols. 1 and 2 were
ised in Isis. Vol. I covered lectures and essays on the Vedas, the
Mtareya-Brahmana, Buddhism, Nirvana, and the Popul Vuh.
510. Norris, Henry Handley [H.H.N.]. The Principles of the Jesuits,
developed in a collection of extracts from their own authors.
London: J.G. & F. Rivington, 1839. xvi, 277 pp.
511. Pococke, Edward. India in Greece; or, Truth in Mythology.
London: John J. Griffin & Co., 1852. xii, 406 pp. 2nd ed. 1856.
Isis Unveiled, 2, 471, quotes Pococke’s statement that "The
primitive history of Greece is the primitive history of India," and then
dds, "In view of subsequent fruits of critical research, we may
paraphrase the sentence and say: ‘The primitive history of Judaea is a
listortion of Indian fable engrafted on that of Egypt. ’"
512. Salverte, Eusebe. The Philosophy of Magic, Prodigies and
Apparent Miracles. Trans, from the French by Antony Todd
Thomson. London: 1846. Rept. N.Y.: Harper & brothers, 1847,
1855, 1862. Vol. I: xxxii, 332. II: vi, 315.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
French text: Des sciences occultes; ou, Essai sur la magie, le,
prodiges et les miracles. Paris, 1829.
513. [Stewart, Balfour, and P.G. Tait.] The Unseen Universe; or
Physical speculations on a future state. New York: Macmillan
1875. xii, 212 pp.
Adyar Library.
514. Taylor, Thomas. The Eleusinian and Bacchic Mysteries. /
dissertation. Edited, with Introduction, Notes, Emendations, am
Glossary, by Alexander Wilder. New York: J.W. Bouton, 1875
xxii, 174 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on top of title-page
The original edition of 1790 gives Amsterdam as place of publication bi
was probably issued from London.
515. Tyndall, John. Fragments of science for unscientific people:
series of detached essays, lectures, and reviews. London: 1871
New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1871, 1874. 422 pp.
Adyar Library.
516. Wright, Thomas. Narratives ofSorcery and Magic,from the mo:
Authentic Sources. London: Richard Bentley, 1851. Vol. I: x
349. II: ii, 342.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on the inside flylej
of both volumes. The inscription in Vol. 2 bears the additional date (
"1877."
517. Yule, Col. Henry, trans. The Book of Ser Marco Polo, Tf
Venetian, Concerning the Kingdoms and Marvels of the Eas
Background Works 159
London: John Murray, 1871. 2nd ed. 1875. Vol I: clxi, 409. II:
xviii, 525.
Adyar Library.
518. Zeller, Eduard. Plato and the older Academy. Trans, by S.F.
Alleyene and A. Goodwin. London: Longmans, Green, & Co.,
1876. xiii, 629.
This is vol. 2 of Zeller’s Die philosophie der Griechen in ihrer
qeschichtlichen entwicklung, 1844-52, titled Plato und die altere
Akademie.
B. Major Works cited in The Secret D octrine
519. Bailly, Jean Sylvain. Lettres sur VAtlantide de Platon et sur
Vancienne histoire de VAsie. London & Paris: 1779. Nouv. ed.
Paris: Debure, 1804, 1805. 443 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London.
5 2 0 .--------. Trade de Vastronomie indienne et orientate, ouvrage qui
peut servir de suite a Vhistoire de Vastronomie ancienne. Paris:
Debure, 1787. clxxx, 427 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London.
521. Bain, Alexander. Logic: deductive and inductive. London: 1870.
New & rev. ed. N.Y.: D. Appleton, 1874, 1884. viii, 731 pp.
522. Burnell, Arthur Coke, and Edward W. Hopkins, trans. The
Ordinances ofManu. London: Trubner & Co., 1884. 399 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centura
523. Chwolson, D. A. "Ueber die Ueberreste der altbabylonischei
literatur in arabischen uebersetzungen." In Memoires presentes c
TAcademie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Vol. 8. St
Petersburg, 1859, pp. 331-523.
A Russian translation appeared in Russkiy Vestnik, 1859, and wa
published as a pamphlet, 195 pp. It contains a translation from the Arabic
of "The Book of Nabathean Agriculture."
524. Constant, Alphonse Louis [Eliphas Levi]. Histoire de la magie
avec une exposition claire et precise de ses procedes, de ses rite,
et de ses mysteres. Paris: Germer Bailliere, 1860. xvi, 560 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" top of title-page. Ha
yellow bookplate: Headquarters Reference Library, The Theosophica
Society, European Section, London.
5 2 5 .--------. La clefdes grandes mysteres, suivant Henoch, Abraham
Hermes Trismegiste, et Saloman. Paris: G. Bailliere, 1861. iv
498 pp.
526. Darmesteter, James, trans. The Zend-Avesta: 7. The Vendidad. 1
1
The Sirozahs, Yasts and Nyayis. Ill. The Yasna, Visparaa
Afrinagan, Gahs, and Misc. Fragments. Oxford: The Clarendo
Press, 1880. I: cii, 240. 1883. II: ix, 384. 1887. Ill: xlviii, 404
Sacred Books of the East series IV, XXIII, XXXI. Mainly use
Part I.
527. Darwin, Charles. On the Origin of the Species by Means c
Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in th
Struggle for Life. London: John Murray, 1859. 6th ed. wit
additions and corrections, 1872, 1882, 1885, 1886. xxi, 458 pp
background Works 161
5 2 8 .--------. The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.
London: J. Murray, 1871. 2nd ed., rev. & augmented, 1883,
1885. xvi, 693 pp.
529. Decharme, Paul. Mythologie de la Grece antique. Paris: Gamier
freres, 1879. 2nd ed., rev. et corr. 1886. xxxvii, 693 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / Maycot London
887" on inside flyleaf. "HPB/17 Lansdowne Rd." stamp on p. iii.
530. Donnelly, Ignatius. Atlantis: The Antediluvian World. New York:
Harper & Brothers, 1882. x, 490 pp.
S.D. 2, 266, refers to it as "that wonderful volume," and on p.
93, calls the author "one of the most intuitive writers of the day."
531. Dowson, John. Classical Dictionary of Hindu Mythology and
Religion, Geography, History and Literature. London: Trubner &
Co., 1879. xix, 411 pp.
532. Edkins, Rev. Joseph. Chinese Buddhism. London: Trubner & Co.,
1880. xxii, 453 pp.
S.D. 1, 72: "who always gives correct facts, although his
onclusions are very frequently erroneous."
533. Faber, George Stanley. A Dissertation on the Mysteries of the
Cabiri; or the Great Gods ofPhenicia, Samothrace, Egypt, Troas,
Greece, Italy, and Crete. Oxford: The University Press for the
Author, 1803. Vol. I: xvi, 428. II: 475.
534. Gould, Charles. Mythical Monsters. London: W.H. Allen & Co.,
1886. 407 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
535. Haeckel, Ernst. The Pedigree of man and other essays. Trans
from the German by Edward B. Aveling. London: Freethough
Publishing Co., 1883. xv, 352 pp.
German text: Gesammelte populare Vortrdge aus dem Gebiete det
Entwicklungslehre, 1878.
* Hartmann, Franz. The Life ofPhilippus Theophrastus, Bombast q
Hohenheim, known by the name of Paracelsus. London: George
Redway, 1887. xiii, 220 pp. Cited as item 1642.
Extracts from the works of Paracelsus have been arranged undei
headings of "cosmology, anthropology, pneumatology, magic anc
sorcery, medicine, alchemy and astrology, philosophy and theosophy,'
along with a good glossary of terms.
536. Huxley, Thomas Henry. Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature
London and Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863. 159 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky” on inside flyleaf
"HPB/17 Lansdowne Rd" stamp on title-page.
537. Jevons, William Stanley. The principles of science: a treatise o)
logic and scientific method. London & N.Y.: Macmillan, 1874
2 vols. 1883, 1887. xliv, 786.
538. Joly, Nicolas. Man before Metals. London: Kegan Paul, 1883
1885. 365 pp.
French text: L ’homme avant les metaux, Paris, 1879.
539. [Kenealy, E.V.H.] The Book of God: The Apocalypse o
Adam-Oannes. London: Reeves & Turner, [1867]. 647 pp.
Background Works 163
Adyar Archives: inscription "H.P. Blavatsky / given to me by /
Francesca Arundale / F.T.S.” on inside flyleaf.
540. Kingsford, Anna, and Edward Maitland. The Virgin of the World
of Hermes Mercurius Trismegistus. London: George Redway,
1885. xxx, 154 pp.
Contains a translation of the Asclepios.
541. Laing, Samuel. Modern Science and Modern Thought. London:
Chapman & Hall, 1885. xi, 320. 3rd ed. 1886. xi, 370.
5 4 2 .--------. A Modern Zoroastrian. London: F.V. White & Co., 1887.
x, 265 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London: signature "H.P. Blavatsky /
London 1887" across top of title-page.
543. Laurence, Richard, trans. The Book of Enoch, The Prophet.
Oxford: 1821. Rev. & corn London: Kegan, Paul, Trench & Co.,
1883. xlviii, 180 pp.
Translated from an Ethiopic Ms. in the Bodleian Library.
544. Mackey, Sampson Arnold. The Mythological Astronomy of the
Ancients Demonstrated, by restoring to their Fables & Symbols
their original meanings. Norwich: R. Walker, 1822-23. 2nd ed.
1824. Part I: vi, 48, 100. 2: xxii, 180.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London.
545. Maspero, Gaston. Guide du visiteur au Musee de Boulaq. Boulaq:
Au Musee, 1883. 438 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
546. Massey, Gerald. The Natural Genesis. London: Williams an<
Norgate, 1883. Vol. I: xvi, 552. II: vi, 535.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" on the title page o
both volumes. The fly-leaf of Vol. I bears the plate "From the Author.
5 4 7 .--------. Luniolatry; Ancient and Modern. A Lecture. London: Th
Author, n.d. 27 pp.
548. Mathers, S.L. MacGregor, trans. The Kabbalah Unveiled
London: George Redway, 1887. viii, 359 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London: signature "H.P. Blavatsky
above the dedication and the introduction. Translates three books of th
Zohar, the Sifra de-Zenifuta: "Book of Concealment," Idra Rabba: "Th
Greater Assembly," and Idra Zuta: "The Lesser Assembly," from th
Latin of Knorr von Rosenroth’s Kabbala Denudata, 1677/78.
549. Merz, John Theodore. Leibniz. Edinburgh and London: Williar
Blackwood & Sons, 1884. vii, 216 pp.
550. Mirville, J.E. de. Pneumatologie. Des Esprits et de leur
manifestations diverses. Paris: H. Vrayet de Surcy, 1863.1: 482
II: lxvi, 437. Ill: xi, 503. IV: viii, 468. 1864. V: 534. VI: xlvii
487.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" above title page an<
on inside cover of I, on inside cover of II. Ill, which bears th
publisher’s imprint, F. Watterlier, has the additional date "1885" on th
inside cover. All three vols. have the yellow bookplate of th
Headquarters Reference Library, The Theosophical Society, Europea]
Section, London.
background Works 165
551. Myer, Isaac. Qabbalah. The Philosophical Writings of Soloman
Ben Yehudah Ibn Gebirol orAvicebron. Philadelphia: The Author,
1888. xxiv, 497 pp.
Deals not only with the writings of Ibn Gabirol, but also with the
>epher Zohar, the Pastor of Hermas, the I Ching, the Mystic Theology
)f Dionysius the Areopagite, the Kabbalah and German commentaries on
t.
552. Oliver, George. The Pythagorean triangle; or. The science of
numbers. London: J. Hogg, 1875. xxiv, 237 pp.
553. Pratt, Henry. New Aspects ofLife and Religion. London: Williams
and Norgate, 1886. xliv, 396 pp.
Copy annotated in H.P.B’s handwriting is in the Adyar Library.
554. Quatrefages de Breau, Armand de. The Human Species. London:
C. Kegan Paul & Co., 1879, 1881, 1886. x, 498 pp.
French text: L ’
Espece humaine, Paris, 1877.
555. RagondeBettignies, Jean-Marie. Orthodoxie Magonnique suive de ,
la Magonnerie Occulte et de VInitiation Hermetique. Paris: E. j
Dentu, 1853. 614 pp. /
!
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London: signature "Constance j
iVachtmeister" top of title page.
556. Schmidt, E. Oscar. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism.
London: H.S. King & Co., 1875. Rept. London: Kegan Paul,
Trench & Co., 1884. vi, 334 pp.
German text: Descendenzlehre und Darwinismus, Leipzig 1873.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
* Sinnett, Alfred Percy. Esoteric Buddhism. London: Trubner &
Co., 1883. xx, 215 pp. Cited as item 1265.
Adyar Archives: inscribed "To Madame Blavatsky of Madras."
557. Skinner, James Ralston. Key to the Hebrew-Egyptian Mystery in
the Source of Measures originating the British Inch and the
ancient Cubit. Cincinnati, Ohio: Robert Clarke & Co., 1875. xvi,
324 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London: signature "H.P. Blavatsky i
Wurzburg December 1885" on top of dedication page.
5 5 8 .------- . Manuscript, [c. 1884.] 358 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky / Ostende 1887" on
inside flyleaf. In a letter to Skinner, dated Feb. 17, 1887, Ostende,
H.P.B. acknowledges receipt of his MS. and says she has sent it to be
bound.
559. Smith, George. The Chaldean Account of Genesis. London: S.
Low, Marston, Searle, and Rivington, 1876, 1880. N.Y.:
Scribner, Armstrong & Co., 1876, 1880, 1881. xvi, 319 pp.
560. Stallo, John B. The Concepts and Theories of Modern Physics.
New York: D.A. Appleton, 1882. 2nd ed. 1884. 313. London: K.
Paul, Trench, 1885. xliv, 314 pp.
* Subba Row, T. "Notes on the Bhagavad Gita." The Theosophist,
Feb.-Apr., July 1887. Cited as item 1786.
Adyar Archives has a bound volume of The Theosophist for 1887
with some annotations in the margin of this article. Has yellow bookplate
of the Headquarters Reference Library, The T.S., European Section.
Background Works 167
561. Telang, Kashinath Trimbak, trans. The Bhagavadgita with the
Sanatsugatiya and the Anugita. Oxford: At the Clarendon Press,
1882. 446 pp.
Vol. VIII of the Sacred Books of the East series.
562. Wagner, Dr. W., M.W. MacDowall, and W.S. Anson. Asgard
and the Gods: The Tales and Traditions of our Northern
Ancestors. London: Swan, Sonnenschein, Le Bas & Lowrey, 4th
ed. 1886. xvi, 326 pp.
T.S. in Eng., Ref. Library, London: signature "H.P. Blavatsky /
Ostende 1887" and "HPB/17 Lansdowne Rd" stamp on top of title page.
563. Wake, C. Staniland. The origin and significance of the Great
Pyramid. London: Reeves & Turner, 1882. viii, 102 pp.
Adyar Archives: signature "H.P. Blavatsky" top of title-page.
564. Wilson, Horace Hayman, trans. The Vishnu Purana: A System of
Hindu Mythology and Tradition. Edited by Fitzedward Hall.
London: Trubner & Co., 1864. I: cxi, 200. 1865. II: 343. 1866.
Ill: 343. 1868. IV: 347. 1870. V: 392. 1877. V, Part 2: 268
(index).
565. Winchell, Alexander. World-Life, or Comparative Geology.
Chicago: S.C. Griggs & Co., 1883. xxiv, 642 pp.
Adyar Archives: inscribed "Madame Blavatsky from the author"
□n inside flyleaf. "HPB/17 Lansdowne Rd" stamp on title-page.
Theosophy inthe Nineteenth Century
C. Nineteenth Century Occult Works
566. [Atwood, Mary Ann.] A Suggestive Inquiry into the Hermetic
Mystery, with a dissertation on the more celebrated of the
Alchemical Philosophers. London: Trelawney Saunders, 1850.
xxv, 531 pp.
567. Britten, Emma Hardinge, ed. Ghostland; or Researches into the
Mysteries of Occultism. Boston: Published for the Editor, 1876
485 pp. Rept. 1897.
568. [Burgoyne, Thomas H.] The Light ofEgypt, or the Science of the
Soul and Stars. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Publ. House.
1889. 292 pp.
569. Butler, Hiram. Solar Biology. Boston: Esoteric Publishing Co..
1887. xxxiv, 290. Rept. Applegate, Calif.: Esoteric Publ. Co.,
1892, 1895. 288 pp.
Subtitled: "A scientific method ofdelineating character, diagnosing
disease, determining mental, physical, and business qualifications
conjugal adaptability, etc., etc., from date of birth."
570. [Cook, Mabel Collins.] The Story of the Year. A Record of Feast*
and Ceremonies. London: George Redway, 1895. 55 pp.
"Christmas Day, Good Friday, and Easter Day are the three grea
occasions of the year on which the great culminating ceremonies tak*
place. The other ceremonies are prepatory."
------- . Green Leaves. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner <
&
Co., 1895. 29 pp.
571.
Background Works 169
5 7 2 .--------. Pleasure and Pain. An Essay on Practical Occultism.
London: Isis Publishing Co., 1896. 34 pp.
573. Dowd, Freeman B. The Temple of the Rosy Cross. The Soul: Its
Powers, Migrations, and Transformations. Philadelphia: John R.
Rue, 1882. 253 pp. 2nd ed. San Francisco: Rosy Cross Publishing
Co., 1888. 240 pp.
574. Encausse, Gerard ["Papus"]. The Tarot of the Bohemians.
London: Chapman and Hall, 1892. xiv, 355 pp. Rept. London:
George Redway, 1896.
Subtitled: "For the exclusive use of initiates," the book supplies
attributes and Hebrew letters to "The Most Ancient Book in the World."
575. Everard, John, trans. The Divine Pymander of Hermes Mercurius
Trismegistus. London: George Redway, 1884. xiv, 112 pp.
This is a reprint of Dr. Everard’s 1650 translation from the
Arabic, and published as No. 1 of the "Bath Occult Reprint Series" for
Robert H. Fryar. The 1884 edition has an introduction and preliminary
essay by Hargrave Jennings.
576. Fryar, Robert H., ed. Aureus: The Golden Tractate of Hermes
Trismegistus. With an Introductory Essay by John Yarker. Bath:
Robt. H. Fryar, 1886. ix, 20 pp.
"The Translation here used and followed is from that notable
work, A Suggestive Inquiry into the Hermetic Mystery."
577. Harris, Thomas Lake. The Wisdom ofthe Adepts. Esoteric Science
in Human History. Fountain Grove, Calif.: Privately Printed,
1884. xxxvi, 527 pp.
170 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
578. [Kingsford, Anna, and Edward Maitland.] The Perfect Way; or,
The Finding of Christ. London: Field & Truer, 1882. xxvii, 342
pp. 1887. xxiii, 397 pp. 1890. xxvii, 384 pp. Rept. Boston:
Esoteric Publishing Co., 1888. 358 pp. New York: Lovell,
Gestefeld & Co., 1890. 384 pp.
579. Kingsford, Anna. Clothed with the Sun. Edited by Edward
Maitland. London: George Redway, 1889. xxix, 314 pp.
580. Lilly, William. An Introduction to Astrology. With A Grammar ol
Astrology and Times for Calculating Nativities by Zadkiel.
London: 1835, 1852, 1860, 1870. George Bell & Sons: 1875
1881, 1884, 1886, 1891, 1893, 1898. xiv, 492, 64 pp. of tables
Lilly’s treatise was first published in 1647.
581. Lytton, Edward George Earle Lytton Bulwer-Lytton, Lord.
Zanoni. Leipzig: B. Tauchnitz, 1842. London: Saunders & Otley.
1842. 3 vols. Rept. Chapman & Hall, 1853. Rept. G. Routledge
1858, 1877. Rept. New York: Harper & brothers, 1842, 1850
1871. Rept. Philadelphia: Lippincott & co., 1865, 1874, 1875
1878, 1882. Rept. Boston: Estes & Lauriat, 1892. Rept. Little
Brown & Co., 1893.
5 8 2 .--------. A Strange Story. Leipzig: B. Tauchnitz, 1861. London: S.
Low, son & Co., 1862. 2 vols. Rept. London & Edinburgh
William Blackwood & Sons, 1866. London & New York:
Routledge, 1875. Rept. New York: Harper & brothers, 1862
1873. Rept. Boston: Estes & Lauriat, 1892.
583. McDonald, Jonathan [Acolyte of the M
H. B. of L."]. Hermetic
Philosophy. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott Co. Vol. I. 1890. Vol
II. 1891. Vol. III. 1893.
Background Works 171
"Including lessons, general discourses, and explanations of
‘fragments from the schools of Egypt, Chaldea, Greece, Italy,
Scandinavia, etc. ’ Designed for students of the hermetic-Pythagorean, and
Platonic sciences, and Western sciences."
584. Massey, Gerald. A Book of the Beginnings. London: Williams &
Norgate, 1881. Vol. I: viii, 503. II: 648.
Vol. I: "Egyptian origines in the British Isles." Vol. II: "Egyptian
origines in the Hebrew, Akkado-Assyrian and Maori."
585. Mathers, S.L. MacGregor. The Tarot, Its Occult Signification,
Use in Fortune Telling, and Method of Play. London: George
Redway, 1888. 60 pp.
5 8 6 .--------. The Key of Solomon the King (Clavicula Solomonis).
London: George Redway, 1889. viii, 115 pp.
Gershom Scholem, in the entry on the Kabbalah in Encyclopaedia
Judaica, says that this well-known medieval book "was not originally
Jewish at all, and it was only in the 17th century that a Hebrew edition
was brought out, a melange of Jewish, Christian, and Arab elements in
which the kabbalistic component was practically nil."
5 8 7 .--------. The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage.
London: J. M. Watkins, 1898. xlviii, 268 pp.
According to Scholem, this translation, which is based on a MS.
in the Bibliotheque de 1’Arsenal in Paris and credited to Abraham the Jew
of Worms, "was not in fact written by a Jew, although its anonymous
16th century author had an uncommon command of Hebrew. The book
was originally written in German and the Hebrew manuscript of it found
in Oxford (Neubauer 2051) is simply a bad translation."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
588. Montfaucon de Villars, N. Sub-Mundanes; or The Elementaries oj
the Cabala: Being the History of Spirits, Reprintedfrom the Text
ofthe Abbe de Villars by Physio-Astro-Mystic. Bath: Robert Fryar,
1886. 136 pp.
A translation of Le Comte de Gabalis, Paris, 1670, which was
"done into English by P. A., Gent." London 1680, with an Appendix
added from Father Sinistrari’s Demoniality, orlncubi and Succubi, Paris,
1879.
589. Randolph, Paschal Beverly, ed. Hermes Mercurius Trismegistus:
His Divine Pymander. Boston: Rosicrucian Publishing Co., 1871.
148 pp. Rept. Toledo, Ohio: Randolph Publ. Co., 1889.
Uses Dr. Everard’s 1650 translation.
5 9 0 .--------. Eulis: the history of love. Toledo, Ohio: Randolpl
Publishing Co., 2nd ed., 1872. 221 pp.
591. Street, J.C. The Hidden Way Across the Threshold, or The
Mystery which hath been hidden for ages andfrom generations
Boston: Lee and Shepard, 1888, 1889. ix, 587 pp. Rept. London
G. Redway, 1889.
"An Explanation of the Concealed Forces in every man to opei
the Temple of the Soul and to Learn the Guidance of the Unseen Hand
Illustrated and made Plain with as few occult phrases as possible. ”
592. Waite, Arthur Edward, trans. The Mysteries of Magic: A Diges
of the Writings ofEliphas Levi. London: George Redway, 1886
xliii, 349 pp. Rept. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co., 1897.
Waite, in his "Biographical and Critical Essay" which opens thi
work, believes that "The ultimate basis ofEliphas Levi’s teaching is not
however, to be found in any single dogma, but in Voltairian free-thought
Background Works 173
and he has read Voltairian principles into the theurgic and theosophic
obscurities of kabbalistic writings."
5 9 3 .--------. The Real History of the Rosicrucians. London: George
Redway, 1887. viii, 446 pp.
Contains translations of the Fama Fratemitatis, the Confession of
the Rosicrucian Order, and the Chymical Marriage of Christian
Rosencreutz.
5 9 4 .--------. Lives of the Alchemystical Philosophers. London: George
Redway, 1888. 315 pp.
Based on material collected in 1815 and published anonymously.
5 9 5 .--------. The Magical Writings of Thomas Vaughan (Eugenius
Philalethes). London: George Redway, 1888. xxxi, 164 pp.
"A verbatim reprint of his first four treatises: Anthroposophia
rheomagica, Anima Magica Abscondita, Magia Adamica, and the true
Coelum terrae."
5 9 6 .--------. A Handbook of Cartomancy, Fortunetelling and Occult
Divination. London: George Redway, 1889. viii, 114 pp.
"Including the Oracle of Human Destiny, Cagliostro’s Mystic
Alphabet of the Magi, and the Golden Wheel of Fortune by Grand
Drient." Based on an American fortune-telling book, Future Fateforetold
by the Stars, published anonymously in Philadelphia, 1863.
5 9 7 .--------. The Occult Sciences. A Compendium of Transcendental
Doctrine and Experiment. London: Kegan Paul, Trubner & Co.,
1891. viii, 292 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"Embracing An Account of Magical Practices of Secret Sciences
in connection with Magic of the Professors of Magical Arts; and of
Modem Spiritualism, Mesmerism and Theosophy."
5 9 8 .--------. Azoth; or The Star in theEast. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1893. xvi, 239 pp.
5 9 9 .------- . The Hermetic Museum, Restored and Enlarged. London:
James Elliott & Co., 1893. Vol. I: xi, 357. II: 322.
"Now first done into English from the Latin original published at
Frankfort in the year 1678. Containing Twenty-two most celebrated
Chemical Tracts."
6 0 0 .--------. The Triumphal Chariot of Antimony by Basilius
Valentinus. London: James Elliott & Co., 1893. xxxiii, 204 pp.
Translated from the Latin version published at Amsterdam, 1685.
The original was in German, Leipzig, 1642.
6 0 1 .--------. The New Pearl of Great Price by Bonus of Ferrara.
London: James Elliott & Co., 1894. xi, 441 pp.
From the Venice edition of 1546. Believed to be written about
1330 by Petrus Bonus of Ferrara.
6 0 2 .------- . The Hermetic and Alchemical Writings of Aureolus
Philippus Theophrastus Bombast, ofHohenheim, calledParacelsus
the Great. London: James Elliott & Co., 1894. Vol. I: xvi, 394.
II: vii, 396.
"Edited with a Biographical Preface, Elucidatory notes, a Copius
Hermetic Vocabulary, and Index." Based on the Geneva ed. of 1658,
Background Works 175
Vol. 1 featured writings related to "Hermetic Chemistry," Vol. 2 on
"Hermetic Medicine and Hermetic Philosophy."
6 0 3 .--------. Transcendental Magic: Its Doctrine and Ritual by Eliphas
Levi. London: George Redway, 1896. xxiv, 406 pp.
A translation of item 475 with a biographical Preface.
6 0 4 .--------. The Book of Black Magic and Pacts. London: George
Redway, 1898. xvi, 296 pp.
The first part of the book presented the Literature of Ceremonial
Magic, while the second gave a Complete Grimoire.
605. Welton, Thos. Mental Magic. A Rationale of Thought Reading.
London: George Redway, 1884. 178 pp.
An Appendix translates "An Historical and Practical Treatise on
Fascination" from the writings of L. A. Cahagnet.
606. Westcott, William Wynn, trans. Sepher Yetzirah. The Book of
Formation, and the Thirty-Two Paths of Wisdom. Bath: Robt. H.
Fryar, 1887. 29 pp. 2nd ed. London: Theosophical Publ. Society,
1893.
"Translated from the Hebrew, and collated with Latin versions."
6 0 7 .--------. The Isiac Tablet of Cardinal Bembo. Its History and
Occult Significance. Bath: Robt. H. Fryar, 1887. 19 pp.
6 0 8 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica I: An English Translation of
the Hermetic Arcanum of Penes Nos Unda Tagi, 1623. London:
Theosophical Publ. Society, 1893. 56 pp.
176 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
With a Preface and Notes by ‘Sapere Aude’ [Westcott], Fra. R.R.
et A.C.
6 0 9 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica II: The Pymander of Hermes.
London: Theosophical Publ. Society, 1894. 117 pp.
Dr. Everard’s English translation of 1650, with a Preface by the
editor.
6 1 0 .------- , ed. Collectanea Hermetica III: A Short Enquiry
concerning the Hermetic Art, by A Lover of Philalethesf London,
1714. London: Theosophical Publ. Society, 1894. 52 pp.
Preface by Non Omnis Moriar [Westcott]. An Introduction tc
Alchemy and Notes by S.S.D.D. [Florence Farr].
6 1 1 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica IV: Aesch Mezareph, or
Purifying Fire. London: Theosophical Publ. Society, 1894. 60 pp.
"A Chymico-Kabalistic Treatise collected from the Kabalc
Denudata of Knorr von Rosenroth. Translated by a Lover of Philalethes,
1714." Preface, Notes and Explanations by ‘Sapere Aude’ [Westcott].
6 1 2 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica V: Somnium Scipionis. London:
Theosophical Publ. Society, 1894. 72 pp.
Translated into English, with an essay "The Vision of Scipic
considered as a Fragment of the Mysteries" by L.O. [Percy Bullock]
"The Golden Verses of Pythagoras" by A.E.A. "The Symbols oi
Pythagoras" by S.A. [Westcott].
6 1 3 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica VI: The Chaldaean Oracles O
j
Zoroaster. London: Theosophical Publ. Society, 1895. 54 pp.
Background Works 111
Edited and revised by Sapere Aude. With an Introduction by L.O.
6 1 4 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica VII: Euphrates, or the Waters
of the East by Eugenius Philalethes, 1655. London: Theosophical
Publ. Society, 1896. 91 pp.
With a commentary by S.S.D.D. on Thomas Vaughan’s text.
6 1 5 .--------, ed. Collectanea Hermetica VIII: Egyptian Magic, by
S.S.D.D. London: Theosophical Publ. Society, 1896. 88 pp.
CHAPTER 4
Works of H.P. Blavatsky
Vlme. Blavatsky’s views on her vast literary output are given in what was
o be her last article, written less than two weeks before she died. In "My
Books” (item 640), dated April 27, 1891, she asked that the following be
aken into consideration: until her first article appeared in the American
)ress in 1874, she had never written in English nor had anything
mblished, she had never been to any college, and what she knew she had
aught herself. Therefore, she admits, "I had not the least idea of literary
ules. The art of writing books, of preparing them for print and
mblication, reading and correcting proofs, were so many close secrets to
„ _ it
ne.
The writing of her first "monumental work," Isis Unveiled, in 1875,
xposed her to the rudiments of literary technique. When she submitted
ler material to Col. Olcott, he told her it would have to be rewritten.
Tieir evenings were spent correcting her English; some pages "that
vou\d yield to no mortal correction, he used to read aloud from my
•ages, Englishing them verbally as he went on, dictating to me from my
lmost undecipherable MSS." It was Col. Olcott who suggested the
ivision of the first volume into Science and the second to Theology. This
aused the shifting of many of the chapters and the attempted elimination
f repetitions.
Toward the end of 1876, Olcott brought the manuscript to Alexander
Wilder (1823-1908), who was engaged in an editorial capacity by J.W.
outon. Bouton specialized in books on art and literature, but in 1875 had
Parted to publish and reprint a number of antiquarian works, edited by
/ilder, some of which were quite successful. At this stage Wilder
179
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
describes Blavatsky’s intended book as "truly a ponderous document, and
displayed research in a very extended field, requiring diligence,
familiarity with the various topics, as well as a purpose to be fair to the
writer" (item 1208). But he reported unfavorably on it to the publisher
because of its length.
Bouton thought differently and sent the manuscript back to him to
edit. In abridging the work, Wilder says that he took out enough to fill
a respectably sized volume. It was Bouton who suggested the title, first
to be The Veil ofIsis, and then finding this had already been used, turned
it into Isis Unveiled.
When the book was issued at the end of Sept. 1877, the edition ol
a thousand copies sold out in ten days, and a second printing was
required before the end of the year. The October 1877 American
Bookseller reported that the sale of Isis Unveiled was "unprecedented for
a work of its kind." After the edition was exhausted, Bouton offered
$5,000 in advance if the author would "unveil Isis a little more" and
produce a second book, but she declined (Olcott, item 1064). Anothei
reprint appeared in 1878.
Reading through the entire work in India in 1881, for the first time
since its publication, brought home the extent of its "glaring defects”
—"misprints and misquotations...useless repetitions... irritating
digressions...and...many apparent contradictions" (item 640). But the
plates had been stereotyped, Bouton was satisfied enough with sales to lei
it continue, and as Mme. Blavatsky had no money to pay for the expenses
of correction, Isis was allowed to remain as it was.
The settlement of a permanent headquarters on the banks of the
Adyar river near Madras at the end of 1882, the growth of Theosophica
work in India, and the prospect of being left to herself for months during
Olcott’s commitments lecturing, are additional factors to be considerec
contributing toward the decision to issue a new version of the book
Advertised as The Secret Doctrine, the project was announced in Tht
Theosophist early in 1884, promising "a new arrangement of the matter
large and important additions, and copious notes and commentaries."
This plan was cut short by the events of 1884 involving the
publication of a number of letters attributed to H.P.B. by Mme
Coulomb, the crucial state of Blavatsky’s health, and her eventua
departure from India at the end of March 1885 for Europe. The
appearance of the long awaited report of the committee set up by th<
Society for Psychical Research to examine Theosophical phenomena
Works of H.P. Blavatsky 181
served to transform her book. In direct response to the S.P.R. verdict,
Blavatsky informed Col. Olcott from Wurzburg, Germany, Jan. 6, 1886,
"Secret Doctrine is entirely new. There will not be there 20 pages quoted
by bits from Isis....This will be my vindication I tell you" (T.S.
Archives, Adyar). Writing A.P. Sinnett, Pres, of the London Lodge, the
same day, she told him, "It will show what a Russian spy can do, an
allegedforger plagiarist etc" (item 1255, Letter 140).
By the end of Feb. 1886 she had completed 300 foolscap pages of
the preliminary volume showing "what was known historically and in
literature, in classics and in profane and sacred histories—during the 500
years that preceded the Christian period and the 500 years that followed
it: of magic, the existence of a Universal Secret Doctrine known to
philosophers and Initiates of every country and to several of the Church
fathers" (Blavatsky to Sinnett, Letter 130, item 674). By the time she
moved to London at the beginning of May 1887, the manuscript had
grown to be over three feet high.
According to Bertram Keightley, her host in England, who read it
through, "as it stood the book was another Isis Unveiled, only far worse,
so far as absence of plan and consecutiveness were concerned." After
consultation with his nephew Dr. Archibald Keightley, it was decided to
livide the material into four volumes, each consisting of three parts: 1,
:he Stanzas of Dzyan, that had so impressed them, and commentaries on
t; 2, Symbolism; 3, Science. Instead of making the first volume consist,
is she had intended, of the history of some great occultists, Bertram
Keightley says, "we advised her to follow the natural order of exposition,
uid begin with the Evolution of the Cosmos, to pass from that to the
Bvolution of Man, then to deal with the historical part in a third volume
rearing the lives of some great occultists, and finally, to speak of
Practical Occultism in a fourth volume should she ever be able to write
t" (item 946).
The manuscript was typed out and most of the summer of 1887 spent
editing it. The Secret Doctrine was to have been issued by the London
mblisher George Redway, but there was a disagreement over terms, and
Bertram Keightley advanced the money for printing it. The first volume
ippeared under the imprint of the newly formed Theosophical Publishing |
Company at the end of 1888. /
It seems inevitable that The Secret Doctrine should be compared to
ts predecessor. If Isis Unveiled was "the first cautious attempt to let into
he West a faint streak of Eastern esoteric light" (Blavatsky, Theosophist
182 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Oct. 1883, B:CW 5, 221), The Secret Doctrine revealed some of its
tenets. Isis was concerned with marshalling evidence for the existence of
an underlying "anciently universal Religion" that had been the primitive
source of the "multitudinous religious faiths" of humanity, the key tc
which was still preserved by certain Eastern adepts. The Secret Doctrine
lifted a little further the "exoteric veil thrown over the face of esoteric
truth" (S.D. 2, 658), to reveal how this key of interpretation operated.
"Everything in the metaphysical as in the physical Universe is septenary"
(S.D. 1, 158). This septenary key was applied using Blavatsky’s Stanzas
of Dzyan as the means of unfolding the story of evolution from the
reawakening of the Universe from the cosmic night, or Pralaya, to the
appearance of humanity on this planet.
The two volumes on "Cosmogenesis" and "Anthropogenesis"
published in 1888 were to be followed by a third and eventual fourth.
Nothing further ever appeared during Blavatsky’s lifetime, but in 1897 a
third volume was issued in London. Readers will find a great deal written
about this edition by Theosophists, amounting to almost a fixation, in
Chapter 5. But enough evidence exists, especially since the draft of the
preliminary volume of The Secret Doctrine survives in the Adyai
Archives, to show that this was material intended for the opening volume
but shifted by the Keightleys. Since this material was unfinished, the
so-called third volume was padded out with an edited version oi
Blavatsky’s instructions to her Esoteric Section started in 1888, and oral
teaching to members of this section’s "Inner Group," six men and si*
women chosen by H.P.B. who met on a weekly basis from 1890 on.
The scope of the initial publication of Blavatsky’s Esoteric
Instructions illustrates how some of the difficulties faced by the earl)
Theosophists were surmounted to become opportunities. Since these
instructions were considered too occult to give to a commercial printer,
they were, according to an English member, Henry T. Edge, "written oul
in copying ink and reproduced page by page, by the old-fashionec
gelatine graph, the pages being afterwards collected and stiched" (iten
804). There were over 200 members of the E.S. by the tiira
mimeographed Instruction I was issued. The first printed edition was done
on the Aryan Press of New York, established for that purpose late ii
1889. The printer, James Pryse, went to London to start the H.P.B
Press, which issued the instructions there in 1890/91.
1889 saw the publication of The Voice of the Silence and The Key tc
Theosophy. The main part of the Voice, a manual for meditation, was
Works of H.P. Blavatsky 183
"translated" at Fontainebleau, France, where Mme. Blavatsky had gone
to recuperate. Annie Besant who was with her, recalls that "she wrote it
swiftly, without any material copy before her, and in the evening made
me read it aloud to see if the English was decent." (item 12). According
to an annotation by another member of the Inner Group, Alice Cleather,
in her copy of The Key to Theosophy, "The idea of publishing a book on
the teachings of Theosophy in the form of question and answers was first
mooted by H.P.B.’s pupils. She thereupon told them to ‘go ahead,’ and
collect all the questions they could, and which bore on doubts and
difficulties incidental to the beginnings of Theosophical enquiry, in the
minds of Western students and those interested in the subject. Some of
the replies were written by H.P.B.’s pupils, but everything was carefully
edited and corrected by her before the Ms. went to press" (Mrs.
Cleather’s copy in the "H.P.B." Library, Canada).
At the time of Blavatsky’s death in 1891, a massive Theosophical
Glossary was in preparation. Her handwritten draft for the title page
announced that it would cover "Sanskrit, Pahlavi, Tibetan, Pali,
Chaldean, Persian, Scandinavian, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Kabalistic and
Gnostic words and occult names used in Theosophical literature." In this
she was "kindly helped for a number of kabalistic terms by W. Wynn
Westcott, M.B., F.T.S., Hon. Magus, Soc. Ros., etc. etc." (quoted in
The Theosophical Movement, Bombay, Jan. 17, 1932, p. 20). But she
lived long enough to see only the first thirty-two pages in proof.
Since this chapter is limited to works issued in book or pamphlet
form in the 19th century, no attempt is made to cover the extended
magazine and newspaper output of Mme. Blavatsky, estimated at close
to 1000 pieces in French, English, Italian, Russian, and filling fourteen
volumes of her Collected Writings (B:CW, 1950-1985, compiled by the
late Boris de Zirkoff). And as the focus of the entire bibliography is on
material in English, with the exceptions noted, only the translations of
Blavatsky’s Russian writings (her main source of income) that appeared
in English are listed. A partial translation of her Indian travelog From the
Caves and Jungles of Hindostan by her niece Vera Zhelihovsky Johnston
was issued in 1892, and the proofs for another book, The Mysterious
Tribes of the Blue Hills, exist but apparently never appeared at the time.
Dnly in 1960 was Blavatsky’s extended serial The Durbar in Lahore
xanslated and printed in English. Her commentaries on American life
from New York in the 1870s, covering topics like abortion, infanticide.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
divorce, women’s rights, American bathing costumes, remain to be
published in English, and will add a new facet to her complex character.
It should be noted that Mme. Blavatsky founded and edited gratis
two magazines during her lifetime. The Theosophist published in Bombay,
1879-1882, and from Madras, 1883-85, is still in existence. Lucifer,
which she edited successively with Mabel Collins Cook and Annie Besanl
in London from 1887 to 1891, was later absorbed by The Theosophist.
OfBlavatsky’s vast correspondence, items published with commentary are
given under the editor’s or transcriber’s name in Chapter 5.
Vorks of H.P. Blavatsky 185
616. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. Isis Unveiled: A Master-Key to the
Mysteries of Ancient and Modern Science and Theology. New
York: J.W. Bouton; London: Bernard Quaritch, 1877. 2nd ed.
1877. 4th ed. 1878. 5th thousand 1882, 1884, 1886, 1887, 1888,
1889. 6th ed. 1891, 1892, 1893, 1896. Vol. I: xlv, 628 pp. II: iv,
692 pp.
The second edition of 1877 and all subsequent editions (actually
eprints) had an additional unnumbered five pages of Table of Contents
dded to Vols. 1 and 2. The first edition has red cloth binding continuing
o 1882 which is brown-grey. 1884 to 1889 are bound in blue-green,
editions of the 1890s are of a puce color. Bouton sold the copyright for
sis to the Theosophical Publishing Company of New York in 1902, but
ot before issuing one last edition (reprint) under his imprint in 1901.
6 1 7 .--------. Theosophy and the Churches. London: Theosophical
Publishing Co. Ltd, 1888. 13 pp.
A reprint o f ",Lucifer to the Archbishop of Canterbury, Greeting!"
n unsigned lead article from Lucifer Dec. 1887. Issued as Theosophical
'iftings I, 1.
6 1 8 .--------. The Popular Idea ofSoul-Survival. London: Theosophical
Publishing Co. Ltd, 1888, pp. 8-16.
Reprinted from The Theosophist Dec. 1879. Pages 1-8 are C.C.
lassey’s "Ancient Opinions upon Psychic Bodies” from the same issue.
heosophical Siftings I, 2.
6 1 9 .--------. What is Matter and What is Force? & The New
Epidemics. London: Theosophical Publishing Co. Ltd, 1888. 15
pp.
Reprinted from The Theosophist Sept. 1882, and June 1886.
heosophical Siftings I, 5.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
6 2 0 .--------. Practical Occultism & Occultism versus the Occult Arts.
London: Theosophical Publishing Co. Ltd., June 4th 1888. 16 pp.
Reprinted from Lucifer April and May 1888. "Issued only tc
Members of the T.P.S." Theosophical Siftings I, 7.
6 2 1 .--------. The Secret Doctrine: The Synthesis of Science, Religion,
and Philosophy. London: The Theosophical Publishing Company,
Ltd.; New York: William Q. Judge; Adyar, Madras: The
Manager of The Theosophist, 1888. 2nd ed. 1888. Vol. I: xlvii,
676 pp. II: xiv, 798, xxx index. 3rd & rev. ed. 1893. Vol. I:
xxiii, 740. II: xvii, 842.
The first edition is bound in blue cloth, the American editior
having the name of William Q. Judge as publisher on the spine. Tht
second edition is bound in brown. The third edition was edited by G.R.S.
Mead and Annie Besant; the American edition has The Path as publishei
on the spine. A 335 page index to the third edition was issued by the
Theosophical Publishing Society, London, in 1895. It was the work ol
Mr. A.J. Faulding and contained a table showing "the different paging
between the old and revised edition."
6 2 2 .--------. The Secret Doctrine. Vol. III. Occultism. London: Th<
Theosophical Publishing Society; Chicago: The Theosophical Bool
Concern; Benares: The Theosophical Publishing Society, 1897
594 pp.
Edited by Annie Besant. The second part of the volume contains
"Some Papers on the Bearing of Occult Philosophy on Life," which an
edited versions of H.P.B.’s E.S. and Inner Group Teachings. A 47 pag<
index to this volume was issued by the Theosophical Book Depot
Auckland, N.Z., 1907.
6 2 3 .--------. The Stanzas of Dzyan (From The Secret Doctrine)
London: The H.P.B. Press, 1892. [49 unnumbered pp.] Madras
Thompson and Co., n.d. 50 pp.
Works of H.P. Blavatsky 187
Reprints the seven stanzas on cosmic evolution, and the twelve on
mthropogenesis.
6 2 4 .--------. An Explanation Important to All Theosophists. London:
Allen Scott & Co., 1888. 12 pp.
Similar to material printed in Lucifer Oct. 1888, pp. 145-48, this
>amphlet settles the question of the extent to which Mme. Blavatsky
:ould become involved in the external affairs of the Society. She had
lissolved the Council of the Isis Branch, Paris, and appointed K.
jaboriau, President, during a crisis caused by the death of the Branch
^resident. Quotes the Official Decision by Olcott as President, T.S.,
ipholding her action, and gives extracts from a letter he received from
C.H. on board ship before his arrival at Brindisi, as well as a joint note
rom Olcott and Blavatsky that there is no disruption between them or
heir "joint devotion" to the Masters and the Theosophical Cause.
6 2 5 .--------. Preliminary Memorandum. London: The Esoteric Section
of the Theosophical Society, December 14, 1888. 28 pp.
Marked "Strictly Private and Confidential," pp. 19-28 contained
1 Rules of membership.
6 2 6 .--------. Instruction 7. EsotericSection. [London,] Jan-Feb. 1889.
Mimeograph 20 pp. + 3 pp. of Diagrams [1 printed in color].
Rept. New York: Privately printed on the Aryan Press, n.d. 24
pp. Rept. London: The H.P.B. Press, n.d. 24 pp. Rept. Madras:
Thompson and Co., n.d. 26 pp.
Contains an Appendix on "The Planets, The Days of the Week and
Tieir Corresponding Colours & Metals."
6 2 7 .--------. Instruction [2]. [London: Esoteric Section,] Mar.-Apr.
[1889]. Mimeograph 23 pp. Rept. New York: Privately Printed on
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
the Aryan Press, n.d. 34 pp. Rept. London: The H.P.B. Press,
n.d., pp. 27-55.
Marked "Strictly Private & Confidential."Page 23 signed by H.P.
Blavatsky as "The Head of the Section." Countersigned: Bertram
Keightley, "Secretary of the E.S."
6 2 8 .--------. Book of Rules. London: The Esoteric Section
Theosophical Society, [1889]. 26 pp.
The Book of Rules was also reprinted together with th<
Preliminary Memorandum as a pamphlet of 35 pages, London, c. 1890
6 2 9 .--------. To All Theosophists. "The Esoteric Section of th<
Theosophical Society" and its Enemies. London, June 21, 1889
16 pp.
Replies to statements by Elliott Coues and Mabel Collins Cook ii
the Religio-Philosophical Journal (see Ch. 8), especially Mrs. Cook’
letter stating that Mme. Blavatsky "begged" her to write Coues "fou
years ago" that Koot Hoomi was the author of Light on the Path
Blavatsky gives background on her association with M.C., says she ha<
no contact with her between Nov. 1884, before the book was completed
and 1887. Quotes letters from Theosophists contradicting Mrs. Cook’
statements.
6 3 0 .--------. The Key to Theosophy: Being a Clear Exposition, in th
form of Question and Answer, of the Ethics, Science, an
Philosophy for the study of which the Theosophical Society ha
been founded. London: The Theosophical Publishing Compan)
Ltd.; New York: W.Q. Judge, 1889. xii, 310 pp. 2nd ed. 189C
370 pp. 3rd and rev. ed. 1893. xv, 260 pp. Rept. New York
Theosophical Publishing Company, 1896. 2nd and rev. America
ed. xiv, 344 pp.
Works of H.P. Blavatsky 189
The second edition of 1890 contained a 62 page glossary of all the
echnical terms used in the book. Most of these, according to H.P.B.’s
lote to this edition, were "transcriptions or abbreviations" from a larger
'Theosophical Glossary" which was in progress and was to be published
ogether with a "Treatise on Archaic Symbolism."
6 3 1 .--------. The Thersites of Freethought. Being a Reply to certain
Attacks. London: Theosophical Publication Society, [1889]. 15 pp.
Replies toG.W. Foote’s pamphlet Mrs. Besantfs Theosophy (327).
But, while I have studied and know something of his materialist
eachings, he knows nothing at all, I see, of Theosophy. It is not to
nswer him or dissipate his prejudices, that I notice a few of the
nistakes, but to show to those who may have read his misleading
lamphlet how superficially he has acquainted himself with that which he
o vehemently attacks."
6 3 2 .--------. An Open Letter to All the Fellows ofthe American Section
of the Theosophical Society. [London, 1889.] 4 pp.
"Having learnt that an ex-Fellow of the Theosophical Society, Mr.
4ichael-Angelo Lane, is going about the United States spreading false
nd malicious reports about the Society he once belonged to, its founders,
fficers, and especially about the undersigned; I, H.P. Blavatsky give
erewith the true history of our acquaintance with Mr. M.A. Lane."
Recommended by W.Q. Judge, Lane had come over to London. "The
diole time he remained with us he did absolutely nothing, but go about
uestioning everyone and trying to pick up all the information he could
bout me." Nothing further developed.
6 3 3 .--------. Preliminary Explanation to No. Ill of the Instructions.
[London, October 1889.] 12 pp. Rept. [New York:] Privately
Printed on the Aryan Press. 21 pp.
When first issued in London it was initialed by H.P.B. with
irtain words and passages filled in by hand. "Owing to the present state
190 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
of things in America, treachery from the first, and still worse treachery
recently, the betrayal by one who joined the E.S. with the determines
object of getting possession of its supposed secrets, in order to upset th<
Theosophical Society, and, by crushing me, crush the E.S. out o
existence, has put an unavoidable stop to the teachings."
6 3 4 .------- , trans. The Voice of the Silence. Being Chosen Fragment,
from the "Book of the Golden Precepts." London: Th<
Theosophical Publishing Co., Ltd.; New York: W.Q. Judge
Adyar, Madras: The Theosophist Office, 1889, 1890. xii, 97 pp
1892. 75 pp. 1893. 1894. 5th ed. 1896. 100 pp. Rept. New York
Theosophical Publishing Co.; London: Luzac & Co., n.d. iv, 10'
pp.
The 1893 edition bears the imprint of the Path, New York, abov
the London T.P.S., and contains the Stanzas of Dzyan from The Secre
Doctrine at the end. H.P.B.’s notes are incorporated at the bottom c
each page making the pagination iv, 107 pp. The 1894 "new edition
printed on the H.P.B. Press, reverts to the original scheme.
6 3 5 .------- . Instruction III. [London, December 1889.] Rept. Londor
The H.P.B. Press, pp. 71-122. Rept. [NY?] pp. 82-129.
According to a notice sent out to E.S. members April 1891
Instructions I, II, III, had been reprinted in "a compact volume of 12
pages...with the Plates, Diagrams, and Tables bound in.... some passage
that were at the time of the issuing of the original matter, of the firi
importance as dealing with personal matters of the greatest interest in th
E.S. and T.S. have now been omitted." That is, references to W.Q
Judge were deleted from the Preliminary Explanation. The volum
actually ran 122 pages with Appendix. Although later American edition
of Instruction 3 bear the note that the parts of the Preliminar
Explanation relating to Judge omitted in earlier printings were done whe
H.P.B. "was too ill to supervise, without her sanction, and, as sh
afterwards said, much against her wishes," the April 1891 E.S. notic
referring to this omission was "Approved" by H.P. Blavatsky as Head c
the E.S.
Vorks of H.P. Blavatsky 191
6 3 6 .--------, comp. Gems From the East. A Birthday Book of Precepts
and Axioms. Preface by W.R. Old. London: The Theosophical
Publishing Society; New York: W.Q. Judge, 1890. [219
unnumbered pp.]
"It contains a Precept or Axiom for every day in the year; lines
>
fa Theosophical nature, selected from sources not invariably Oriental,
ireface each month; and the whole is embellished with drawings from the
>en of F.W., a lady Theosophist."
6 3 7 .--------. Have Animals Souls? London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1890, pp. 1-23.
Reprinted from The Theosophist, Jan.-Mar. 1886. Pages 24-28 are
The Astral Light" by Louise Off. Theosophical Siftings III, 7.
6 3 8 .--------. Transactions of the Blavatsky Lodge of the Theosophical
Society. London: The Theosophical Publishing Society; New
York: W.Q. Judge. Part I, 1890. 64 pp. Part II, 1891. 47 pp.
Based on shorthand reports of answers by Blavatsky at meetings
f the Blavatsky Lodge, London. Part I covers discussions on Stanzas 1
nd 2 of The Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, during meetings from Jan. 10 to
1, 1889, along with an Appendix on Dreams given during meetings of
>ec. 20 and 27, 1888. Part 2 continues Stanza 2 to 4 during meetings
rom Feb. 7 to Mar. 14, 1889.
6 3 9 .--------, comp. Glossary of Theosophical Terms used in the Key to
Theosophy. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891. 62
pp.
"Readers requiring fuller information about any particular term
lould consult The Theosophical Glossary now in preparation."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
6 4 0 .------- . My Books. London: Theosophical Publishing Society; Nev
York: The Path Office; Madras: Theosophical Headquarters
Adyar, [1891]. 8 pp.
Headed "H.P.B.’s Last Article," this is a reprint from Lucife
May 1891, with a "Declaration" signed by her 12 pupils of the Inne
Group vouching for her veracity.
6 4 1 .--------. Instruction TV. [London: Eastern School of Theosoph)
July 1891,] pp. 127-41.
Edited by Annie Besant, this is H.P.B.’s Oral Teaching to th
Inner Group, referred to here as the Third Degree of the E.S. "It wa
thus given with a view of its being transmitted to members of the Secon
Degree, and was carefully written down by the students at the time, on
of the number reporting it in shorthand. All the notes thus taken wer
compared, and a fair copy was made by the two Secretaries, Anni
Besant and G.R.S. Mead. This copy was again checked by questionin
H.P.B. on any point that seemed obscure. By her direction the matte
was rearranged under the headings given below."
642. --------. Alchemy in the Nineteenth Century. Trans, by Thoma
Williams. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891, pf
3-18.
Translated from La Revue Theosophique, Paris, Oct.-Dec. 188S
According to the note accompanying the translation, "The articl
‘Alchemy in the Nineteenth Century’ was written as a piece (
wholesome advice to those self-constituted ‘Masters’ of magic, etc. whic
are of such mushroom growth in Paris and other parts of France.
Theosophical Siftings IV, 9.
6 4 3 .--------, comp. The Theosophical Glossary. Preface by G.RA
Mead. London: The Theosophical Publishing Society; New Yorl
The Path Office; Adyar, Madras: The Theosophist Office, 189^
i, 389 pp.
Vorks ofH.P. Blavatsky 193
Edited by G.R.S. Mead, with contributions by William Wynn
Vestcott. Contains definitions for 2,767 terms arranged alphabetically.
6 4 4 .--------. Nightmare Tales. Foreword by Annie Besant. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society; New York: The Path; Madras:
Theosophical Society, 1892. 133 pp.
Reprints four tales by H.P.B. "The Luminous Shield," orig. publ.
n the N.Y. Sun, Jan. 2, 1876; "The Cave of the Echoes," Banner of
Jght9 Boston, Mar. 30, 1878, and Theos. Apr. 1883; "The Ensouled
Violin," Theos. Jan. 1880, and Lucifer Mar., Apr. 1892; "A Bewitched
Jfe," Theos. Aug., Sept. 1885, and Lucifer Dec. 1891, Jan., Feb. 1892.
^nd one new story, "From the Polar Lands."
6 4 5 .--------. Astral Bodies, & The Mysteries of the After-Life. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 20 pp.
Two dialogues reprinted from Lucifer Dec. 1888, Jan. 1889,
>etween H.P.B. and her co-editor at the time, Mabel Collins Cook.
heosophical Siftings V, 10.
6 4 6 .--------. From the Caves and Jungles ofHindostan. Trans, by Vera
Johnston. London: The Theosophical Publishing Society; New
York: The Path; Madras: Thesophical Society, 1892. 318 pp.
Originally printed in the Moscow Chronicle, 1879-1882. Rept. in
lusskiy Vestnik (Russian Messenger), 1883, 1885-86. Part I was
ublished in book form, 1883, by the University House of Moscow, 508
p., as Iz peshcher i debrey Indostana. Pis'ma na rodinu.
6 4 7 .--------. Instruction No. V. [London: Eastern School of Theosophy,
n.d.,] pp. 147-68.
Taken from the matter left by H.P.B. for such use.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
6 4 8 .--------. Reincarnations in Tibet. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1893, pp. 15-22.
Reprinted from The Theosophist Mar. 1882. Pages 1-15 an
"Anomalies in the Biblical Views of the Constitution of Man" by Sapen
Aude [W.W. Westcott]. Theosophical Siftings V, 16.
6 4 9 .--------. Psychic and NoeticAction. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1893. 20 pp.
Reprinted fromLucifer Oct., Nov. 1890. Theosophical Siftings VI
6.
6 5 0 .--------. First Steps in Occultism. Foreword by Annie Besant
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 122 pp. Rept
San Francisco: Mercury Publ. Office, 1898. 135 pp.
Reprints "Practical Occultism" and "Occultism vs. the Occul
Arts," from Lucifer April and May 1888, along with the "Comments" oi
Light on the Path, from Lucifer Oct.-Nov. 1887, Jan. 1888, attributed t<
Mabel Collins Cook.
6 5 1 .--------. Studies in Occultism. Boston: New England Theosophica
Corporation, 1895. Rept. Boston: Theosophical Book Company
1897. 1. [50 pp.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "Practical Occultism" Apr. 1888
"Occultism versus the Occult Arts" May 1888, and "The Blessings o
Publicity" Aug. 1891.
6 5 2 .--------. Studies in Occultism. 2. [pp. 51-119.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "Hypnotism" Dec. 1890, "Black Magic ii
Science" June 1890, and "The Signs of the Times" Oct. 1887.
Works of H.P. Blavatsky 195
6 5 3 .--------. Studies in Occultism. 3. [pp. 120-69.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "Psychic and Noetic Action" Oct., Nov.
1890.
6 5 4 .--------. Studies in Occultism. 4. [pp. 170-228.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "Kosmic Mind" Apr. 1890, and "The Dual
\spect of Wisdom" Sept. 1890.
6 5 5 .--------. Studies in Occultism. 5. [pp. 229-311.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "The Esoteric Character of the Gospels"
^ov., Dec. 1887, Feb. 1888.
6 5 6 .--------. Studies in Occultism. 6 . [pp. 312-59.]
Reprints from Lucifer: "Astral Bodies" Dec. 1888, and "The
Constitution of the Inner Man" Jan. 1889.
6 5 7 .--------. A Modern Panarion: A Collection of Fugitive Fragments
from the pen of H.P. Blavatsky. London: The Theosophical
Publishing Society; New York: The Path; Madras: The
Theosophist Office, Adyar, 1895. Vol. I: v, 504 pp.
A compiliation of H.P.B.’s articles covering the years 1874 to
882, edited by G.R.S. Mead. All her major articles to the American
►
ress are included, and her early articles for The Theosophist in India till
882, as well as the first three "Fragments of Occult Truth" which were
ctually by Hume and Sinnett, and her translation in that journal of "The
Irand Inquisitor" from Dostoevsky’s The Brothers Karamazov. Her
American articles were supplied from H.P.B.’s Scrapbooks, and
ometimes none too carefully. Her "Hiraf" article, her "first occult shot,"
sprinted here as "Occultism or Magic," breaks off in the middle with no
196 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
indication that it continued. Apparently further volumes wen
contemplated but never issued.
6 5 8 .------- . The Magicians ofthe Blue Hills. Trans, by Vera Johnston
New York: Theosophical Publishing Co., 1897. 244 pp.
Originally printed in Russkiy Vestnik, Moscow, Dec. 1884-Apr
1885, and published in book form with "The Durbar at Lahore," St
Petersburg, 1898. Page-proofs for this translation, which apparently wai
never issued, exist in the Boris de Zirkoff Collection, Olcott Library
Wheaton, 111., bearing the bookplate of the Theosophical Universit;
Library, Point Loma, and stamped "Property of G. de Purucker."
CHAPTER 5
Works About H.P. Blavatsky
Reviewing John Symonds’ 1959 biography Madame Blavatsky and
ts attendant press, critic Victor Endersby assembled the different portraits
generated about Blavatsky:
She was a repulsive, unhealthily fat masculine type of bag with
coarse manners and ugly features, the very prototype of
everything sexually repulsive to normal men, who had every
male in sight struggling to get in bed with her. Especially
Barons, Counts, opera singers and such, with the pick of
Europe on the platter.
She was "profoundly ignorant on every subject" in a manner to
enthrall and thrill some of the most eminent of the intelligentsia
of her time, with the range of her knowledge and the brilliance
with which she discussed it.
She was a faker of psychic phenomenon who was never once
actually caught in the act of a fake, although some of her tricks
and contrivances as described would disgrace the intelligence of
a ten-year-old amateur magician.
She was a swindler against whom no victim ever lodged a
complaint, who lived in poverty, and left nothing but a little
jewelry of no intrinsic value.
She was a Russian agent, stirring up revolution in India, who
was never even personally questioned by the English
Government, and died in London unmolested.
197
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
She was a self-indulgent glutton who nearly killed herself with
work, (item 809)
From her public emergence in America in 1874 (and one migh
surmise even before) those who came in contact with Mme. Blavatsk)
were drawn to fathom her nature, resulting in the contribution to these
conflicting images. Thus Elliott Coues who met her in London during hei
1884 European tour saw her in terms of physical attributes:
Remarkably small, pretty hands and feet for such a corporosity,
though with long, dirty nails; suspicion of pug in the saucy
nose; pale, restless eyes; flossy yellow hair, tending to kink;
Tartar face with high cheek bones, fat chops, and a dewlap, the
latter always hid by hand or fan in her photographs; stature
medium; weight perhaps 250 pounds; harsh, strident voice;
conversation profane and witty; temper abominable; odor of
tobacco abiding; dress a sort of compromise between the robes
of a Norma and a robe de nuit. (item 1931)
Mabel Collins Cook, at whose home Blavatsky stayed upon her arrival ii
England in May 1887, remembered her moral, or in this case immoral
qualities:
She had a greater power over the weak and credulous, a greater
capacity for making black appear white, a larger waist, a more
voracious appetite, a more confirmed passion for tobacco, a
more ceaseless and insatiable hatred for her enemies, a greater
disrespect for les convenances, a worse temper, a greater
command of bad language, and a greater contempt for the
intelligence of her fellow beings, than I had ever supposed
possible to be contained in one person, (item 774)
To Col. Olcott, who dealt with her daily for ten years, "she wa
from the first and continued to the end an insoluble riddle" (Preface t<
item 196).
Was she really "one of the most evil and immoral women who eve
lived" (item 1161), or as the S.P.R. committee reported in 1885 worth
only to "permanent remembrance as one of the most accomplished
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 199
ingenious, and interesting impostors in history" (item 1897)? V.S.
Solovyov mockingly termed her H
St. Helena, ye ever holy virgin," while
Dlcott noted with anxiety the tendency of her devotees to view her as "an
Earth-visiting angelos" (Preface to 196).
Surveying the 600 entries in this section the reader will find echoes
md reverberations of these observations. Truly she appears to have been
ill things to all people, for everyone seems to have an opinion about her.
But when we look for verifiable facts the result is not as accessible and
equires some diligent searching. What we are sure of is her pedigree and
background. When Mme. Blavatsky arrived in India in 1879 her identity
vas a matter of speculation. A.P. Sinnett, editor of the Pioneer, wrote
o her uncle Gen. Rostislav Fadeyev, Joint Secretary of State in the Home
[Department in St. Petersburg, through a third party on the Viceroy’s staff
ind received the following reply dated Sept. 18, 1880:
I certify by the present that Madame H.P. Blavatsky, now
residing at Simla (British India), is from her father’s side the
daughter of Colonel Peter Hahn, and grand-daughter of
Lieutenant-General Alexis Hahn von Rottenstem-Hahn (a noble
family of Mecklemburg, Germany, settled in Russia). And that
she is from her mother’s side the daughter of Helena Fadeyev,
and the grand-daughter of Privy Councillor Andrey Fadeyev
and of the Princess Helena Dolgorukov; that she is the widow
of the Councillor of State, Nikifor Blavatsky, late
Vice-Governor of the Province of Erivan, Caucasus.
Printed in the Preface to The Occult World, 2nd ed., item 1261. The
>riginal letter in French is in the Archives of the Theosophical Society at
\dyar).
After her marriage at the age of 17 or 18 in 1848/49, and subsequent
ibandonment of her husband in 1849 and escape to Constantinople,
bllow 25 years that can only be sketched at best. "We get a vague
mpression of an adventuress skipping widely about the world—now in
Mexico, now in Japan, or Ceylon, or where not, and for some years
lowhere," Coues noted. With her arrival in America in 1873 information
►
ecomes more reliable. Anna Ballard, a New York reporter, interviewed
ter "not more than a week after she landed" in July, and Olcott
eproduces her letter about this in the first volume of Old Diary Leaves
item 192). Elizabeth Kinsella Holt spent the summer of 1873 with her
200 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
I at a co-operative home for working women in lower Manhattan (iten
J 882). If we believe Hannah Wolffs account, Mme. Blavatsky’s firs
winter in New York was occupied spending money profusely, attending
women’s rights conventions, and smoking hashish (item 1217). Cour
' records show she invested $1 ,0 0 0 (a substantial amount for the time) ii
a farm in Long Island in July 1874. Col. Olcott introduced her to hi:
readers in the Nov. 27, 1874 Daily Graphic, noting her arrival a
Chittenden, Vt., on Oct. 14, but she was already on her way to becominj
|i a celebrity and had been interviewed in the Nov. 13 issue of that paper
By the time the Theosophical Society was suggested at a Sept. 7
1875 talk in her rooms at Irving Place in New York, a substantial amoun
of material has accumulated about her. There are letters, her own, anc
those of prominent Spiritualists, where she is an item of correspondence
There are newspaper accounts, articles, references. These source:
increase. Diaries are added, pamphlets, reports. Far from organizing th<
Theosophical Society as a money-making venture, we see her leaving fo
the country to visit Prof. Hiram Corson at Cornell during the crucia
formative period of the Society, when the by-laws and the positions of th
officers and the extent of their powers are being decided. She writes t<
Alexander Aksakov in St. Pertersburg from Ithaca somewhat laconically
f "Olcott is now organizing the Theosophical Society in New York. It wil
be composed of learned occultists and cabbalists, of philosophe
Hermeticques of the nineteenth century, and of passionate antiquaries am
\ Egyptologists generally" (item 1913).
j To enable the reader to chart these and subsequent developments ii
her life with any degree of certainty, the focus of this section is oi
biographical and historical material relating to Helena Petrovna Blavatsky
How often have I gone through articles bearing her name in the title onl
to find an excuse for vague philosophizing. The researcher will not fim
many of such listed, nor the ubiquitous White Lotus Day address. No
reviews, or encyclopedia accounts, or poems, or passing notices. One o
the few exceptions being the 27 articles that appeared in her magazin
after her passing in 1891, and reprinted In Memory ofH.P.B. (695). I
the genuine outpouring of feeling by those who knew her personalty
some glimpse of her character may be discerned.
Unfortunately no one volume or biography yet written can b
unreservedly recommended as conveying or summing up Mme
Blavatsky. Gertrude Marvin Williams 1946 biography (item 1211
assembles the case for the prosecution, while Jean Overton Fuller’s recer
201
attempt (item 819) is surely a witness for the defense. Marion Meade’s
1980 Madame Blavatsky (1022) is a relative of Williams, but at least she
is funny. Victor Endersby’s Hall of Magic Mirrors (809) might be
regarded as the best overall attempt to deal seriously with some of the
issues in Blavatsky’s life. Mme. Blavatsky’s own letters to A.P. Sinnett,
transcribed and edited by A. Trevor Barker (item 674), is an
indispensable volume, especially since these letters cover the period
Sinnett was working on his biography of her and fishing for data. It has
the additional value of including correspondence to Blavatsky and Sinnett
by a number of prominent Theosophists of the time. Beatrice Hastings
review of C. Bechhofer Roberts Mysterious Madame in item 875, Apr.
1938, should be read as a curative against accepting any statement about
Blavatsky, pro or con, without checking the sources. In introducing this
section I have tried to give an indication of additional relevant material
to be found in chapters 2 and 8 .
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
j 659. A. L. P. "With H.P.B. in the Seventies." Theosophy (New York)
I 11:5 (August 1896): 150-53.
An interest in the "supernatural" and a visit to New York City
brought an introduction to Mme. Blavatsky, then living on Irving Place.
"I did not at all like her untidy and careless appearance." Lost interest till
joining the T.S. in 1892.
660. "About Spiritualism. Mme. Blavatsky’s Visit to The Daily Graphic
Office." The Daily Graphic (New York), Nov. 13, 1874, p. 90.
Rept. in The Spiritual Scientist (Boston), Nov. 19, 1874, pp.
l\ 121-22. Rept. in The Complete Works ofH.P. Blavatsky. Vol. 1.
London: Rider & Co., 1933, pp. 16-18.
A somewhat sensational interview with Mme. Blavatsky
occasioned by her delivery to the Daily Graphic office Nov. 12 of a letter
on phenomena witnessed at the Eddy mediums in Vermont. She is
described as "handsome, with full voluptuous figure, large eyes,
well-formed nose, and rich, sensuous mouth and chin." When this
interview was reprinted on the front page of the Spiritual Scientist, she
corrected a number of passages by hand. To the statement "In 1858, ]
returned to Paris, and made the acquaintance of Daniel Home, the
spiritualist....Home converted me to Spiritualism," she annotated in the
margin, "The biggest lie of all. I never saw in my whole life either D.D.
Home or his wife. I never was in the same city with him for a half an
hour in my life." Adding that "From 1851 to 1859 I was in California,
Egypt and India. In 1856-58 I was in Kashmir and elsewhere." In the
bound copy presented by her to the British National Association ol
Spiritualists in 1877, now in the Library of the College of Psychic
Studies, London.
661. AgehanandaBharati. "FictitiousTibet: The Origin and Persistence
of Rampaism." The Tibet Society Bulletin 7 (1974): 1-11.
Bharati denounces the works of "Lobsang Rampa" as a lie, and as
"Blavatsky’s work has had signal importance in the genesis and the
perpetuation of a wide-spread, weird, fake, and fakish pseudo Tibetic*
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 203
and pseudo Buddhic," she is dragged in as the mother of lies. But says
that Olcott was "a genuine person," and Annie Besant "a sincere
woman," in their work for Asia. Replied to by item 748.
662. Allen, Jane. "The Feminine Mystique of Madame Blavatsky."
Borderline (Los Angeles), November 1964, pp. 120-26.
The debate over Blavatsky’s phenomena has obscured her
"feminine mystique." Establishes her role as a feminist by quotes about
her attitude and compares her life with a number of other independent
women of the 19th century.
663. Alpha. "The Alpha Letters: An evening with a Russian Gypsy and
Col. Olcott." The Chicago Post, June 4, 1878.
Describes a Saturday evening spent at Mme. Blavatsky’s rooms on
West 47th Street in New York, interspersed with her conversation and
that of Col. Olcott. Prints the entire text of a nine point circular on the
work of the Theosophical Society.
664. Arundale, Francesca. "Madame Blavatsky and her Work." Lucifer
8:47 (July 15, 1891): 376-80. Rept. in item 695.
First met H.P.B. in London, April 1884, saw her last on March
26, 1891. "The whole tendency of the teaching of Madame Blavatsky has
been to awaken India to a knowledge of its past spiritual life, and to bring
that life to be better understood by the Western world."
6 6 5 .--------. "Some Reminiscences of a Veteran Theosophist." The
Theosophist, July-Oct. 1917. Rept. as My Guest—H.P. Blavatsky.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1932. ix, 81 pp.
Mme. Blavatsky stayed at Miss Arundale’s home at 77 Elgin Cres.
in London during the summer of 1884. These reminiscences describe the
/isitors who came and went to the house—the Indian chela, Mohini
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Chatteiji, the American clairvoyant, Laura Holloway, Frederick Myers
of the S.P.R.—along with insights into Blavatsky’s character, and whai
it was like having her as a house guest. The reprint is introduced by C.
Jinarajadasa, who adds three letters from H.P.B. and the Masters to Miss
Arundale, and one from Olcott, Nov. 24, 1885.
6 6 6 . ------- . "H.P.B.’S Travels." The Theosophist 47:12 (Septembei
1926): 698-99.
Memoranda jotted down by Miss Arundale from conversations
with H.P.B. giving places and dates in her travels from 1848 to 1873.
* Arya Asanga. See Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus
667. Atkins, Anita [Sylvia Cranston]. H.P.B. The Extraordinary Life
and Influence of Helena Blavatsky, Founder of the Moderr
Theosophical Movement. New York: Jeremy P. Tarcher/Putnam,
1993. xxiv, 648 pp.
6 6 8 . Bachchan, Harbans Rai. "Theosophy and Madame Blavatsky."
Ch. 5 in W.B. Yeats and Occultism. Delhi: Motilal Banarsidas,
1965, 1974, pp. 217-57.
Suggests that "in formulating the principle of his ‘system’ Yeats
was mainly recollecting what he had learnt between the years 1885 and
1890 from the Theosophical literature and Society, and from his contact
with Madame Blavatsky." Presents background on Blavatsky and hei
writings corroborating his thesis.
669. Baillie-Weaver, H. H.P. Blavatsky. [London, c. 1920.] 17 pp.
A White Lotus Day address, May 1920, quoting from Olcott,
Mead, and Sinnett, on the "inconvenient frankness" of Blavatsky’s
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 205
temperament and method, as a refutation to accusations of "trickery,
concealment and fraud."
670. Baldwin, Samri S. "Madame Helena Blavatsky." Ch. 16 in The
Secrets ofMahatma Land Explained. Brooklyn, NY: The Author,
1895, pp. 94-102.
"Prof." Baldwin, a stage magician, reviews Blavatsky’s career. "I
am quite sure that her remarkable physical manifestations were produced
entirely by deception. But I also firmly believe that in using such
deception she was actuated solely and wholly by the desire to create an
interest in Theosophy, and had no desire to deceive the public and her
friends for the sake of the deception. I believe that she regretted the
deception." But her desire intensified until it became "a semi-mania,in
which she herself believed in the genuineness of the absolute deception
she was then practising."
671. Balyoz, Harold. Ch. 1-3 in Three Remarkable Women. Flagstaff,
AZ: Altai Publishers, 1986, pp. 1-33.
Cursory narration of Blavatsky’s life with quotes from her about
the Masters, and extensive extracts from The Secret Doctrine. The other
two "remarkable women" covered are Alice Bailey and Helena Roerich.
672. Barborka, Geoffrey A. H.P. Blavatsky, Tibet and Tulku. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1966. xxiii, 476 pp. 1969, 1974,
1986.
Explains H.P.B.’s phenomena by the Tibetan term "tulku," a
transfer of consciousness from one body to another.
6 7 3 .--------. H.P. Blavatsky, the light-bringer. London: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1970. 6 8 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur)
Concentrates on the different ways Blavatsky’s books were
produced: clairvoyance, precipitation, Tulku, occult dictation, etc.
674. Barker, A. Trevor, ed. The Letters of H.P. Blavatsky to A.P.
Sinnett. London: T. Fisher Unwin; New York: Frederick A
Stokes, 1925. xv, 404 pp. Rept. Pasadena: Theosophica
University Press, 1973.
One hundred twenty letters from Blavatsky to Sinnett covering the
period from 1880 to 1887, along with additional letters from Countes*
Wachtmeister, the Gebhards, Damodar, Anna Kingsford, to Sinnett, anc
^ A.O. Hume, W.Q. Judge, Olcott, Subba Row, Babaji, and Elliott Couef
to H.P.B. Items 1050 and 1323 provide chronological arrangements.
675. Barratt, Grahame W. M
W.B. Yeats, Defender of H.P. Blavatsky.’
Prediction (London), August 1965, pp. 12-13.
Refers to an exhibition of Yeats’ works in the King’s Library,
British Museum, in March 1965, where according to Barratt, "a pamphlet
written by Yeats in H.P.B.’s defence was displayed alongside an oper
copy of her Secret Doctrine." Goes on to quote from Yeats
autobiographical Four Years issued by the Cuala Press 1921.
676. Barrett, Rose. "H.P.B. and 19, Avenue Road.” The Theosophicai
Forum 26:1 (January 1948): 35-37.
About 19 Avenue Road, London, Mrs. Besant’s home, which sh*
turned over to the Theosophical Society, and where H.P.B. spent her Iasi
two years. When the lease was given up, Katherine Tingley took it over.
677. Bates, Ernest Sutherland [E.S.B.]. "Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna
Hahn." In the Dictionary of American Biography, ed. by Allei
Johnson. Vol. 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1929, pp
361-63.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 207
Interpretative profile of Blavatsky’s life. "She possessed the rare
power of temporarily believing whatever she wanted to believe. Thus she
hypnotized others, having first hypnotized herself, and, although one of
the most unspiritual women, she gained from her followers a veneration
amounting almost to idolatry."
678. Bechhofer-Roberts, Carl E. [Ephesian]. The Mysterious Madame.
A Life ofMadame Blavatsky. London: John Lane, 1931. 241 pp.;
New York: Brewer & Warren, 1931. 332 pp.
For a work claiming to be "the first critical and unbiassed
biography of Madame Blavatsky" this book adds nothing new, except that
i Baroness Meyendorff claimed that her brother-in-law, Baron Nicholas
Meyendorff, claimed that H.P.B. was the mother of his illegitimate child.
Reviewed by items 875, 1023.
679. Beechey, Katherine. "H.P. Blavatsky in London." Theosophical
News & Notes (London), May 1937, pp. 3-5. Rept. in The
Theosophist, May, July 1937, pp. 153-59, 350-56.
The Minute Book of the Blavatsky Lodge, London, is used to
recreate Blavatsky’s activities in England and her participation in the
branch of the Society named after her.
6 8 0 .--------. "H.P. Blavatsky’s New Year Card and Letter to a Young
Girl of Poona." The Theosophist 79:4 (January 1958): 256.
Text and facsimile of a letter and card from H.P.B., Jan. 2, 1888,
London, to Serena Khandalavala.
6 8 1 .--------. "Two H.P.B. Letters." The Theosophist 80:9 (May 1959):
81-88.
Translation of two Russian letters from Blavatsky to unidentified
ecipients. 1 , (July or Aug. 1883) Nilgiris. 2, Paris, June 27 (1884). A
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
translation of a Russian poem by V.S. Solovyov, Elberfeld (Germany),
Aug. 31, 1884, is included on page 8 8 .
P 6 8 2 .--------. "Letters from H.P.B.’sHusbands." The Theosophist 80:11
1 (August 1959): 291-99.
One from Nikifor V. Blavatsky to H.P.B.’s aunt, N. Fadeyev,
Nov. 13, 1858, Erivan, wishing "ardently" that their marriage could be
annulled, and another from Michael C. Betanelly, May 7, 1877
expressing similar sentiments for their divorce.
6 8 3 .--------. "Some Books that Interested Madame Blavatsky." The
Theosophical Journal (London), May-June 1964, pp. 7-10.
Cursory survey of books and pamphlets that belonged to Blavatsk)
now in the Archives of the Theosophical Society, Adyar, India. "Some
of the books may seem to be of little consequence or may be out of date
from a scientific point of view, but all of them are of significance since
they belonged to Madame Blavatsky and the majority of them bear hei
autograph."
6 8 4 .--------. "H.P.B.’s Attitude toward Social Reform." In H.P.
Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (item 864), 1971, pp. 14-53
1988, pp. 184-94.
Extracts from Blavatsky’s articles and letters are quoted to shou
her position on social reform, which Beechey says is summed up by he
words, "Let everyone become a Theosophist, a true brother to hi*
fellowmen, and half the world’s social problems would be solved."
685. Benjamin, Elsie. "Facts About H.P.B.’s Occult Ring." The
Eclectic Theosophist, March-April 1985, p. 3.
Says that the original signet ring worn by H.P.B., bearing a desigi
of two interlaced triangles with the Sanskrit word Sat below it, went t<
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 209
Mr. Judge, Mrs. Besant’s being a copy. But see Besant’s statement in
The Case Against W.Q. Judge (1947), and Pryse in item 1101.
6 8 6 . Bernard, Helene. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." Ch. 4 in Great
Women Initiates, or the Feminine Mystic. Trans by Michelle
Ziebel. San Jose, CA: AMORC, 1984, pp. 41-72.
Conventional life of Blavatsky. "Guided by the Cosmic Masters,
she protected the ‘white’ mission of the movement she had established
from all evil, and led the students toward the mystical path."
687. Besant, Annie. "Among the Adepts." The Pall Mall Gazette, April
25, 1889, p. 3. Rept. in The Theosophist, August 1889, pp.
696-98; The Adyar Bulletin, March 15, 1921, pp. 61-66; The
Theosophist, January 1939, pp. 262-66; The TheosophicalJournal,
Nov.-Dee. 1974, pp. 3-5; The Theosophist, January 1988, pp.
143-47.
Besant’s review of The Secret Doctrine which led her to meet the
luthor. Item 443 reproduces a facsimile of a note she sent the editor of
the Gazette, W.T. Stead, while writing it. "I am immersed in Mme.
Blavatsky! If I perish in the attempt to review her, you must write on my
Tomb, ‘she has gone to investigate the Secret Doctrine at first hand.’"
6 8 8 . --------. "The Evolution of the Universe." The National Reformer
(London), June 23, 1889. Rept. in The Theosophist, Sept. 1889,
pp. 757-60; The Adyar Bulletin, Sept. 15, 1921, pp. 244-49; The
Theosophist, Feb. 1939, pp. 335-39.
Mrs. Besant’s second review of The Secret Doctrine, favorable
like the first.
6 8 9 .--------. "Mrs. Besant and Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the
Editor, The Methodist Times, Sept. 5, 1889, p. 874.
210 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Replies to the Rev. Henry Lunn’s article in the Aug. 29th issue
(item 1865) on the character of her new teacher. Says she has read botl
reports issued by the S.P.R. on Blavatsky’s phenomena, and the day aftei
she finished she joined the T.S.
6 9 0 .------- , and H.T. Patterson. The Theosophical Society and H.P.B.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, [1891]. 24 pp. Rept
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, Jan. 1932. 30 pp.
Three articles reprinted from Lucifer, 1890/91. Besant had define*
Blavatsky’s position in the Dec. 1890 issue by a number of propositions
"1. Either she is a messenger from the Masters, or else she is a fraud. 2
In either case the Theosophical Society would have no existence withou
her." Patterson objected in the Feb. 1891 number that the T.S. held nc
position binding membership to belief in H.P.B. "Even a recognizee
leader may be dangerous. H.P.B. herself is always inculcating
self-reliance, and discouraging any dependence upon others, hersel
included." Besant countered in the March 1891 issue, "Granted that th<
Theosophical Society has no creed, and teaches no doctrines; none th<
less is it without foundation unless it be built on the rock of the Hiddei
Wisdom."
6 9 1 .--------, Alice Leighton Cleather, Laura M. Cooper, Isabe
Cooper-Oakley, Herbert A.W. Coryn, Archibald Keightley
G.R.S. Mead, Walter R. Old, E.T. Sturdy, Constant
Wachtmeister, Claude Falls Wright. "A Declaration." Lucifer \
(May 1891): 246-47. Rept. in B:CW 13, pp. 201-2.
"We have fully investigated all the accusations and attacks whicl
have been made against the personal character and bona fides of H.P
Blavatsky, and have found them in the vast majority of cases to b
<
entirely false, and in the few remaining instances the grossest possibl
distortions of the simple facts."
211
6 9 2 .--------, C. Carter Blake, Herbert Burrows, Laura M. Cooper,
Isabel Cooper-Oakley, G.R.S. Mead, Archibald Keightley, Walter
R. Old, Constance, Countess Wachtmeister, W. Wynn Westcott.
"The Press." Lucifer 8 (June 1891): 319-20.
Statement issued to the press after Blavatsky’s death to counter
"libels as monstrous as they are vile" circulated about her life. This
notice was carried during May 1891 in the Daily News, Daily Graphic,
Pall Mall Gazette, Black & White, Morning Advertiser, the Star, the
Echo, Weekly Chronicle, Eastern Daily Press, Overland Mail, Woman’s
Herald, Belfast Northern Whig, Manchester Guardian, Manchester
Examiner, Agnostic Journal, Westminister Gazette, Suffolk Chronicle,
Leicester Journal, Times of India, Montreal Daily Star.
6 9 3 .-----------[X]. "Madame Blavatsky. From a Theosophist’s
Standpoint." The Illustrated London News, May 30, 1891, p. 707.
"For some weeks past, descriptions of Madame H.P. Blavatsky,
the founder of the Theosophical Society, have appeared in well-nigh
every journal of the United Kingdom. Most of these have consisted of a
mere outline of her stormy life. Some have been laudatory, others
malignant and abusive." Analyzes her character and contribution.
6 9 4 .--------. "As I knew her." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15, 1891): 292-95.
Rept. in item 695.
"Looking at her generally, she was much more of a man than a
voman. Outspoken, decided, prompt, strong-willed, genial, humorous,
Free from pettiness and without malignity, she was wholly different from
he average female type."
6 9 5 .--------, ed. In Memory of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, by some of
her pupils. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891. 96
pp. London: Theosophical PublishingHouse, 1991. Rept. London:
The Blavatsky Association, 1931. 199 pp. Bombay: Theosophy
Co., 1991.
212 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Twenty-seven testimonials from the June, July, August 1891 issues
of Lucifer. The 1931 reprint adds additional pieces by W.T. Stead and
A.P. Sinnett from the June 1891 Review of Reviews, and an editorial in
the New York Tribune of May 10, 1891. Contains items 664, 694, 737,
741, 775, 777, 820, 845, 869, 915, 926, 927, 939, 945, 948, 956, 959,
968,998,1017,1018,1065,1076, 1129, 1146, 1149, 1150, 1160, 1194,
1222.
6 9 6 .------- . "H.P. Blavatsky, The Messenger of the White Lodge."
The Theosophist 30:7 (April 1909): 85-89.
Brief biographical sketch of "The Brother whom you know as
H.P.B., but we—otherwise." First of the series "Theosophical Worthies."
6 9 7 .--------. "In the Twilight." The Theosophist 31:8 (May 1910):
1098-1100.
Psychic experiences with Blavatsky at Fontainebleu, France,
Brighton, and London.
6 9 8 .------- . Study and Practice. Transactions of the Blavatsky Lodge
of the Theosophical Society, 3. London, 1919. 22 pp.
Recalls Blavatsky’s methods of teaching through the work of the
Blavatsky Lodge, London.
6 9 9 .------- . "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist 53:1
(October 1931): 56-59.
Short talk at the commemoration of the centenary of Blavatsky’s
birth held at Adyar, Aug. 12, 1931. After their first meeting, H.P.B. told
her, "My dear Mrs. Besant, if you would only come amongst us." Besant
said she had an intense desire "to bend over and give her a kiss." She
resisted.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 213
700. Besterman, Theodore. "H.P. Blavatsky, A Plea for a Just /
Understanding." The Aryan Path (Bombay) 2:5 (May 1931):
299-302.
Besterman, then librarian and research officer for the S.P.R., 1
^ondon, calls for "the cessation of the useless and embittered
controversies about the character of the supernormal phenomena of
Vladame Blavatsky," when it is her writings "that merit the most serious
consideration."
7 0 1 .--------. "H.P.B." Ch. 19 in Mrs. Annie Besant. A Modern
Prophet. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co., 1934, pp.
143-57.
"She was a woman who had read widely, though unsystematically,
n many languages, who had travelled extensively and met many learned
ind cultured persons, and who had spent many years in musing on
occult’ wisdom. She was, besides, a woman of great shrewdness and
tbility. It is only natural, therefore, that in the mountain of chaff there
ihould be some grains of wheat." Includes a long letter from Olcott to
2.C. Massey and Stainton Moses, 1876, giving his belief that "the
Blavatsky shell is a shell, tenanted by a copper coloured Hindu Solon or
^thagoras."
702. Blake, C. Carter. "Evidence from a modem scientist." Appendix
I, 7, in Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine
(item 1195), 1893, pp. 117-20; 1976, 1989, pp. 103-5.
Carter Blake, a specialist in anthropology, offers his opinion that
Madame Blavatsky certainly had original sources of information (I don’t
ay what) transcending the knowledge of experts on their lines." Gives
examples of how she stumped him.
703. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. "A Card From the Countess
Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Sunday Mercury, [New York,
Jan. 1875?]. Rept. B:CW 1 , pp. 35-36.
214 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
In June 1874 Mme. Blavatsky invested $1,000 in a farm ai
Northport, Long Island, owned by a Russian couple, the Gerebkos. The
property did not live up to her expectations and in August they decidec
to annul their agreement. Mrs. Gerebko failed to reimburse her, anc
Mme. Blavatsky filed a complaint, Sept. 9, 1874, with the Suffoll
County Clerk’s Office. Her letter to the Sunday Mercury narrates the
events leading to her impending court case. The judgement was decidec
in her favor June 15, 1875.
t 7 0 4 .------- . "Corrections by Mad. Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor
Banner of Light, Feb. 17, 1877, p. 5. Rept. in item 840.
The Jan. 23, 1877, N.Y. World (item 771) carried a Ion*
interview with Mme. Blavatsky about her forthcoming book. The Banner
of Light reprinted it Feb. 3, and a week later carried a letter fron
Blavatsky to the World correcting some misstatements. The Banner addec
a few biographical bits of information which H.P.B. corrects in the issut
of Feb. 17. She was not bom in 1834, and "Mr. Blavatsky was no
seventy-three when he capped the climax of my terrestrial felicity b;
placing his valetudinarian hand in mine. He might have been older, an<
he might have been younger; some men are."
7 0 5 .------- . "A Card From Madame Blavatsky." The World (Nev
York), May 6 , 1877, p. 5; The Sun (New York), May 6 , 1877
p. 5. Rept. in B:CW 1, pp. 247-49.
Since her arrival in America she has been subjected to "slanderou
reports, vile insinuations, innuendo." "At various times I have beei
charged with (1) drunkenness; (2) forgery; (3) being a Russian spy; (4
with being an anti-Russian spy; (5) with being no Russian at all, but;
French adventuress; (6 ) of having been in jail for theft; (7) of being th
mistress of a Polish count in Union Square; (8) with murdering sevei
husbands; (9) with bigamy; (10) of being the mistress of Colonel Olcott
(11) also of an acrobat. Other things might be mentioned but decenc;
forbids."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 215
7 0 6 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Bombay
Gazette, May 13, 1879. Rept. B:CW 2, pp. 40-41.
"Know please, once for all, that I am neither ‘Countess,’
Princess,’ nor even a modest ‘Baroness,’ whatever I may have been
>efore last July. At that time I became a plain citizen of the U.S. of
\merica—a title I value far more than any that could be conferred on me
)y King or Emperor."
7 0 7 .--------. "Mr. Lillie’s Delusions." Letter to the Editor, Light, Aug.
9, 1884, pp. 323-24. Rept. B:CW 6 , pp. 269-80.
Writes to "rectify" Lillie’s letter in Light, Aug. 2 (item 1396)
criticizing G.B. Finch’s Observations (item 1341). "Since he chooses to
ake such liberties with my name, I will tell him plainly that he himself
mows nothing, not only of initiations and Tibet, but even of exoteric—let
done esoteric—Buddhism....I have lived at different periods in Little as
n Great Tibet, and that these combined periods form more than seven
fears....I have stopped in Lamaistic convents; that I have visited
Jhigatze, the Tashi Lhunpo territory and its neighborhood, and that I
lave been further in, and in such places of Tibet as have never been
fisited by any other European, and that he can ever hope to visit."
7 0 8 .--------. "Mr. Arthur Lillie." Letter to the Editor, Light, Oct. 11,
1884, pp. 418-19. Rept. B:CW 6 , pp. 288-94.
Replies to Lillie’s Sept. 6 reply (item 1397) on her Aug. 9th letter,
dakes her famous statement, "I never was a Spiritualist. I have always .
mown the reality of mediumistic phenomena, and defended that reality; (
hat is all." Identifies "John King."
7 0 9 .--------. "Retirement of Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the General
Council of the Theosophical Society, in the Supplement to The
Theosophist, May 1885, p. 195. Rept. B:CW 6 , pp. 337-38.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Dated March 21, 1885, Adyar, Blavatsky resigns her office o
Corresponding Secretary because of ill health. A letter from her doctor
Mrs. Scharlieb, is attached recommending that "she should at one*
proceed to Europe and remain in a temperate climate."
7 1 0 .------- . Letter to the Editor of Rebus (St. Petersburg), Sept. 1885
Trans, in Theosophia (Los Angeles) 5:4 (Nov.-Dee. 1948): 10-12
Rept. B:CW6, pp. 407-11.
Russian letter from Blavatsky, Aug. 27, 1885, Wurzburg, giving
the reasons for departure from India. Richard Hodgson had publicl;
declared at a dinner party given by one of the Government officials ii
Madras that she was a Russian spy. "This gave rise to a terrible
tempest....Without even explaining to me in detail what it was all about
these friends of mine, afraid on my behalf, decided—upon advice fron
the doctor, who told them that such an arrest would at the time meai
death for me—to send me to Europe without even one day’s delay."
f 7 1 1 .--------. "Are All Russian Ladies Russian Agents?" The Pall Mai
j Gazette, Jan. 3, 1889, p. 7. Rept. in the Supplement to Th
Theosophisty March 1889, pp. lviii-lix. Rept. B:CW 10, pp
291-95.
/
Replies to a reference in A. de Grasse Stevens’ novel Mis
Hildreth on her carrying on espionage work in India. Says that after bein
trailed for eight months in India the Viceroy, Lord Lytton, issued a]
Order in Nov. 1879, calling off surveillance. Not interested in politics—
"nuisance" and a "bore."
7 1 2 .--------. "Dates Again." Letter to the Editor, Light, July 27, 1889
p. 364. Rept. B:CW 11, pp. 362-65.
Replies to Colenso’s July 6 th piece in Light (item 768). Says sh
cannot and will not be held responsible for "blunders, inaccuracies am
contradictions, in statements about me which are not made over my ow
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 217
lignature." Says she reached Pskov on Christmas Day 1860, not 1871.
between 1871 and 1873 she was in Cairo and Odessa.
7 1 3 .--------. "Theosophy, Reincarnation, etc., etc." Letter to the
Editor, Light, August 10, 1889, pp. 383-84. Rept. B:CW 11, pp.
387-89.
Deals with Colenso’s statement in item 1838 that her flight from
Madras in 1885 "universally condemned her" in the Coulomb case.
Havatsky gives the reason for leaving. Doctor’s orders did not give her
nore than ten days to live if she stayed in India. Names Dr. Scharlieb
ind Mrs. Cooper-Oakley in London as her witnesses.
7 1 4 .--------. "Why I Do Not Return to India." The Theosophist 43:4
(January 1922): 368-80. Rept. B:CW 12, pp. 157-67.
Letter to Indian members of the Society written in 1890 explaining
ler activities in India, the events that conspired toward her leaving, and
vhy she chooses not to return. "I can never return to India in any other
apacity than as Their faithful agent."
7 1 5 .--------. "Grandfather’s Sisters and Brothers." The Theosophist
84:1 (October 1962): 51-53.
Translation by Zoltan de Algya-Pap of three pages of Russian text
>
y Blavatsky in a notebook dated from Wurzburg 1886, on her
latronymic relations.
716. "Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna." In the Dictionary of American
Religious Biography, ed. by Henry Warner Bowden. Westport,
CT: Greenwood Press, 1977, pp. 52-53.
"The international wandering and experimental liasons
haracterizing successive decades of Madame Blavatsky’s search for truth
ave an exotic coloration to all her endeavors. While reports of her early
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
life contain many claims difficult to verily, it is certain that he
imaginative spirit refused to stay within the conventional expectations fo
marital or religious behavior."
717. "Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna Hahn." In Liberty fs Women, ed. b;
Robert McHenry. Springfield, MA: G. & C. Merriam Co., 1980
pp. 38-39.
This entry, among 1022 biographical sketches of Americai
women, identifies her as a Spiritualist.
718. Blavatsky Association. "The Defence Committee and Sir Arthu
Conan Doyle." Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association, 1
London, Nov. 13, 1924, pp. 16-45.
Letters from the Hon. Iona Davey, for the Council of th
Blavatsky Association and Council member William Kingsland, wh<
knew Blavatsky personally, to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle regarding hi
reference to Mme. Blavatsky in Pearson's magazine, Mar. 1924, and Si
Arthur’s rebuttal. "One cannot brush away Solovyoff, as if he did nc
exist....I have no doubt that she had psychic powers. I said so in m
article. But they seem to me to be of a low order." Has read Besant’
1907 defence pamphlet (item 1823), and will modify his position whei
the text is republished. Still says "I don’t like her [H.P.B.]—and can’
pretend to." Prints Doyle’s letter to the editor of Pearson’s where he say
that as a result of recent evidence he admits that "the Adyar case i
non-proven either way."
! 7 1 9 .---------. The Blavatsky Bibliography: A Reference Book of Works
! Letters, Articles, etc., by and referring to Madame H.P
Blavatsky. London: The Blavatsky Association, 1933. 36 pp.
Four sections list editions and translations in English o
Blavatsky’s works; subsequent revised and edited editions; miscellaneou
writings—letters, magazine articles—published or reprinted in book o
V pamphlet form; and biographical books, articles, pamphlets, and othe
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 219
eferences by various writers, noting those that are hostile. Totals about
[32 items. A three page Addenda issued in 1934 covers "Translations and
foreign Editions of H.P. Blavatsky’s Works.”
720. "Blavatsky Still Lives. And Theosophy is in a Flourishing
Condition." The New York Times, Jan. 6 , 1889, p. 10. Rept. in
items 80, 743.
Interview with W.Q. Judge just returned from England on
Havatsky’s life in London. "She scarcely ever leaves the house and from
:30 o’clock in the morning until evening is constantly engaged in writing
rticles for her magazine Lucifer, or other theosophic publications,
eplying to correspondents, and preparing the matter for further
orthcoming volumes of her gigantic work, The Secret Doctrine." Gives
lie of her exchanging her first class ticket from Le Havre to New York
i 1873 for steerage to help a woman who had been cheated out of her
assage.
721. "Blavatsky’s Queer Life. A Brief Account of Her Career in this
Country." The New York Times, May 10, 1891, p. 5.
Detailed examination of Blavatsky’s career rectifying the obituary
ublished in the previous day’s N.Y. Times (item 1001).
722. "Blavatsky, The Mahatma." The New York Times, June 8 , 1893,
p.9.
General outline of her life with portrait. She "was bulky enough
) have made it possible for her to earn a living as an exhibit had she not
hosen an easier and more profitable path."
723. Bloede, George. "D.D. Home on Some Recent Developments and
Isms of American Spiritualism." Letter to the Editor, Boston,
Sunday Herald, Mar. 5, 12, 1876.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Dr. Bloede writes to the Sunday Herald giving extracts fron
letters of D.D. Home to him on the state of American Spiritualism. A
this source has been used to yield whatever writers wish to say agains
Blavatsky—witness Marion Meade’s biography (item 1022) p. 164, when
Home "retaliated by writing to the Boston Herald that Madame was thi
most notorious cheating medium he knew of"—it is worthwhile t<
reproduce Home’s entire reference to Blavatsky from the Mar. i
installment. "You know the very wonderful incident related in Olcott’
book [People From the Other World] of where the decoration wa
brought from her father’s grave. My first wife’s father was a Russiai
general, and I know that when he passed away not only were hi
decorations not buried with him, but they had to be returned to th<
Government. The father of my present wife was Counsellor of State t<
the Emperor Nicholas, and the same thing had to be done with hi
decorations. I would not, however, make the assertion till I was mor
sure, and I wrote to my friend the Baron Meyendorff (this is, I believe
the very Baron M. made use of as one of her vouchers in Olcott’s book
He knew her to his sorrow in 1858), and I have his reply, dated at St
Petersburg last December, where he says: ‘Never are the dead interred
with their decorations. These are only carried as far as the tomb. It is bi
a short time ago when the relatives were obliged to return them to th
Government.’ It would seem that even the grave of her father is nc
sacred to this woman, who has ‘power over the spirits.’" And that’s all
Mme. Blavatsky annotated this clipping in her press Scrapbook I, 214
"And who ever thought or said they were! It is not a decoration but
buckle, you spiritualistic fool." The T.S. Archives at Adyar also contain
| a letter from Baron Meyendorff to Mme. Blavatsky, April 20, 1877
• apologizing "for the trouble unintentionallycaused" by Home’s use of hi
name.
724. Bobritsky, Lydia P., trans. "Helena Andreevna Hahn." Th
Theosophical Forum 26:8 (August 1948): 449-57.
A portrait of Mme. Blavatsky’s mother (1814-1842) taken fror
the Preface to The Complete Works ofE.A. Hahn, St. Petersburg, N.F
Mertz, 1905. Ranks her as a writer with George Sand in France.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 221
725. Bodenhausen, F. de. "Madame Blavatsky and Her Accusers."
Letter to the Editor, The Unknown World (London), April 15,
1895, pp. 142-43.
On Blavatsky’s "smoking, swearing and slandering." Says that she
new that tobacco was a "psychical disinfectant," that though she used the
vord "damn," she used it very seldom, and that she was "entirely
ree-spoken."
726. Bonggren, Jacob. "How H.P.B. Taught Us." The Beacon (New
York), June 1922, pp. 17-22. Rept. Theosophia (Los Angeles)
16:1 (Spring 1959): 7-12.
"In her teaching H.P.B. used the method by which she herself had
een taught: the method of the Masters. She gave us problems to solve,
lways with some hints of how to solve them. She told repeatedly that
lere were different methods of solution; in fact, that there were seven
ifferent keys to use, each of them leading to a different result, the
ssults being actual facts on their own plane, all of them."
727. Bosnian, Leonard, and Anita Orchard. H.P. Blavatsky, The
Light-Bringer. London: The Dharma Press, [1931]. 144 pp.
Beatrice Hastings has written on the title page of her copy of this
biography with an astrological Interpretation"—"nearly all borrowed
rom Olcott at whom they hiss and sneer. H.P.B. would have flayed
iem."
728. Bowen, Robert. nThe Secret Doctrine and its Study." Ed. by P.G.
Bowen. Theosophy in Ireland 2:1 (Jan.-Mar. 1932): 2-7. Rept. as
Madame Blavatsky on How to Study Theosophy. London:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1960, 1967. 15 pp. Rept. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1970, 1973, 1989. 17 pp. Rept.
in An Invitation to The Secret Doctrine. Pasadena: Theosophical
University Press, 1988, pp. 1-6.
222 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
"Extracts from the notes of personal teachings given by H.P.B. t<
private pupils during the years 1888 to 1891, included in a large MSS
volume left to me by my father, who was one of the pupils."
729. Boyer, Paul S. "Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna Hahn." In Notabl
American Women, 1607-1950, ed. by Edward T. James. Vol. I
Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1971, pp. 174-77.
"At the apogee of her career, Helena Blavatsky was a person o
curious contradictions. Far from spiritual in appearance, she wa:
extremely obese, with protruding eyes and short crinkly hair. She love<
to play solitaire, smoked incessantly, and frequently gave way to towering
rages and profane outbursts drawn from the forty languages she was sai<
to have at her command. While taking great relish in attracting nev
converts, she always retained a wry self awareness that was one of he
more appealing traits."
730. Bragdon, Claude. "H.P.B. and Theosophy." The Messenge
(Hollywood, CA), April, May 1917, pp. 321-25, 355-59.
An Address delivered before the Toronto Theosophical Society
Dec. 3, 1916. "The first epoch of the Society’s history was marked b
the publication of Isis Unveiled in 1877." The Coulomb letters an
Hodgson’s report formed another. "Thereafter ‘phenomena’ ceased t
play an important part."
731. Brandon, Ruth. "The Rejection of Disbelief." Ch. 8 in Th
Spiritualists. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson; New York: Alfre
A. Knopf, 1983, pp. 236-39.
Portrays Blavatsky as a medium, who according to the authc
"was shown up perhaps more comprehensively than any other medium.
Reproduces Hodgson’s plan of the shrine room at Adyar.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 223
732. Bridge, John Ransom. "Helen Petrovna Blavatsky." The Arena
12:65 (April 1895): 177-84.
A character sketch based on Solovyov and Olcott’s Old Diary
.eaves. "Whatever may be the ultimate verdict upon the life and work of
his woman, her place in history will be unique. There was a titantic
lisplay of strength in everything she did. The storms that raged in her
vere cyclones."
733. Brown, Jack. "Reminiscences: I Visit Prof. Einstein." Ojai Valley
News, Sept. 28, 1983, pp. 6-7.
Brown visited Einstein at Princeton when a student there in 1935;
aw a copy of Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine "which sat at the far comer of
he large desk" in Einstein’s study. Quotes Einstein on Blavatsky.
734. Brunton, Paul. "The Secret Doctrine of the Khmers." The Modern
Mystic (London), October 1939, pp. 355-56, 378.
"Somewhere in South-east Asia I met a man who wears the High
ama’s robe," who told Brunton about Blavatsky "when she was a girl
nd fled from her husband, she accidentally met a group of Russian
luddhist Kalmucks who were proceeding by a roundabout route on
ilgrimage to the Dalai Lama of Tibet. Shejoined the caravan as a means
f escape from her husband. One of them was an adept. He took care of
er and protected her and brought her to Lhassa. She was initiated in due
ourse into the secret traditions. She visited other parts of Tibet and also
ndia." Mentions her co-disciple "Doijeff."
735. [Buchanan, Joseph Rhodes.] "Helena P. Blavatsky." The
Phrenological Journal and Life Illustrated (New York) 66:3
(March 1878): 134-37.
A phrenological interpretation of Blavatsky’s character based on
er features with some commentary. Includes portrait.
224 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
736. Buck, Jirah Dewey. "The Theosophical Society and H.P.B." Th
Theosophist 12:9 (June 1891): 511-15.
"What H.P.B. is to the real workers who have caught th
inspiration from her heroic example, these carpers will never know—i
least in this incarnation." Buck’s contribution to the Besant/Patterso
exchange in Lucifer (item 690).
7 3 7 .------- . "H.P. Blavatsky as seen through her Work." Lucifer 8:4
(June 15, 1891): 305-9. Rept. in item 695.
Buckjoined the Society in 1878, just before H.P.B. and Olcott le
for India. "I found her in the face of her immense knowledge new
egotistic, and not only from every sign and all reliable information, fre
from all personal pride or ambition, but rejecting everything offered \
herself in the way of adulation or revenue."
7 3 8 .------- . Ch. 4-6 in Modern World Movements. Chicag<
Indo-American Book Co., 1913, pp. 52-85.
Relates Blavatsky’s contribution to the building up of Theosoph
through her letters to him of Sept. 1, 1879, Jan. 20, Mar. 1, 1886,
7, 1887, and personal anecdotes.
[ 739. Bums, James. Letter to the Editor, The Daily Chronicle (London
Sept. 12, 1891, p. 5.
Bums says Blavatsky wrote him from Cairo in 1871/72 requestir
a medium to come for seances.
740. Burr, William H. Madame Blavatsky. N.p., [c. 1893]. 9 pp.
Prints a long letter from Blavatsky, Nov. 19, 1877, when si
resided in New York, discussing her beliefs. "I completely reject the id<
of a Creator or a Supreme God, who is in the least concerned in tl
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 225
ovemment of this world." Denies belief in communication with spirits
f the dead. Item 840 reproduces the text of this letter. Burr offers his
pinion that she was not the author of Isis Unveiled.
741. Burrows, Herbert. "What she is to me." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15,
1891): 299-302. Rept. in item 695.
Burrows accompanied Annie Besant to 17 Lansdowne Rd. in the
pring of 1889. "She whom we were there to see was a stout, unwieldy
idy, playing Russian ‘Patience,’ and keeping up a stream of conversation
n nearly every subject except the one which was just then nearest our
iinds....I went to her a materialist, she left me a Theosophist, and
etween these two there is a great gulf fixed. Over that gulf she bridged
le way."
742. Butt, G. Baseden. Madame Blavatsky. London: Rider & Co.,
1926, 2nd. ed. 1927. xi, 269 pp. Philadelphia: David McKay Co.,
1926.
This early biography distinguishes itself by supplying a four
hapter summary of the phenomena attributed to Blavatsky. Reviewed by
:em 865.
* C. S. R. See Ranasinghe, C.S.
743. Caldwell, Daniel H. comp. The Esoteric She. San Diego: Point
Loma Publications, 1991. 108 pp.
A collection of articles on Blavatsky’s life, work and teachings, by
William Quan Judge. Contains items 720, 925, 926, 927, 928, 929, 930,
31, 934, 936, 937, 1863.
7 4 4 .--------. The Occult World of Madame Blavatsky. Tucson, AZ:
Impossible Dream Publications, 1991. 336 pp.
226 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
A chronological picture of Blavatsky’s life created by length;
excerpts from published reminiscences by her acquaintances. Ai
Appendix supplies an up-to-date bibliography of her writings and relevan
studies about her, plus biographical sketches of the writers quoted.
745. Caracostea, Daniel. "Letters of H.P.B. to Arthur Amould.” Thi
Eclectic Theosophist, Mar.-April, May-June 1990.
Six letters from Blavatsky, 1889/90, to Amould (1835-95), j
leading figure in the Theosophical movement in France, with commentar
and notes. In March 1890 he started the Theosophical review, Le Lotu
Bleu, still in progress; these letters were translated from the March 198!
issue.
746. Carrithers, Walter A. The Truth About Madame Blavatsky
Covina, CA: Theosophical University Press, 1947. 27 pp.
An open letter to Gertrude Marvin Williams, Dec. 16, 1946
pointing out a number of discrepancies in her biography of Mme
Blavatsky (item 1211).
7 4 7 .------- . "Madame Blavatsky: ‘One of the World’s Great Jokers.’
Journal ofthe American Societyfor Psychical Research 56:3 (Jul
1962): 131-39.
Reviews John Symonds 1959 biography of Blavatsky (item 1167)
7 4 8 .------- ."Madame Blavatsky and Occult Tibet (A Critique on th
History and Menace of Black Tantrism)." Theosophical Note
(Napa, CA), September 1974, 19 pp. + 4 p. Addendum.
Replies to Bharati’s reference to Blavatsky in his article "Fictitiou
Tibet" (661). A 24 page Addendum 2 was issued in the Jan. 5, 197<
Theosophical Notes warning further of the danger of "Black Tantrism.
Works About HP. Blavatsky 227
7 4 9 .--------. "Jiddu Krishnamurti and ‘The Return of Madame
Blavatsky.’" Theosophical History, Oct. 1987, Jan. 1988, pp.
126-33, 165-83.
Says Krishnamurti was Blavatsky returned but as "a failure...a
etardment...a misfit."
750. "Catechizing a Buddhist." The Sun (New York), May 6 , 1877, p.
6.
Lengthy interview with Blavatsky about Buddhism, which she
lefined as "the ‘wisdom religion,’ and it underlies all religions in their
>urity. It is perfect monotheism, for it accepts one boundless, infinite,
ncomprehensible principle." Discusses Nirvana, the immortality of the
oul and prayer in Buddhism, esoteric Buddhism and its adepts. When the
eporter questioned her as to the practical effects of America adopting
luddhism, she replied, "The people would not commit fraud, either in
Residential elections, or otherwise. They would abandon licentiousness
md crime, because they would have no Jesus on whose back to put their
ins."
751. Chetty, G. Soobiah. "A Reminiscence of H.P.B." The Theosophist
45:8 (May 1924): 244-45.
Soobiah Chetty spent part of the summer of 1883 at the Indian hill
station of Ootacamund with H.P.B. and her hosts the Morgans. Says the
uccess of this visit "attracted the jealousy of the Christian missionaries"
vhich led to the Coulomb conspiracy.
7 5 2 .--------. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist 53:1
(October 1931): 47-49.
Brief talk at Adyar, Aug. 12, 1931. Presents five incidents with
LP.B. illustrating her character. When he remonstrated her on her
emper, she told him, "that is my loss and your gain. If I didn’t have that
emper I should have become an Adept by this time."
228 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
7 5 3 .--------. "H.P.B.’s Birthday." The Theosophical Worker (Adyai
2:8 (August 1937): 173-74.
Recalls H.P.B.’s trip to Ooty during 1883. K.H. appeared at hi
house in Mylapore.
7 5 4 .------- . "H.P.B. By One Who Knew Her." The Theosophist 67:
(June 1946): 151-53.
H.P.B.’s visit to Adyar in 1882. After seeing the propert
proposed for their Theosophical headquarters, she said "Master says ‘Bu
this place.’" Gives something of her character.
* Chiero. See Hamon, Louis
755. Christie, VioletM. "H.P.B." The Theosophist47:6 (March 1926^
733-38.
7 5 6 .--------. "H.P.B. and Spiritualism." The Theosophist 47:8 (Ma
1926): 194-99.
Compilations from H.P.B.’s MS. translation in the Archives of tl:
Theosophical Society, Adyar, of her sister Vera Zhelihovsky’s artic]
"The Truth About Helena Petrovna Blavatsky" published in Rebus 188:
The whole MS. has since been printed in The Theosophist May-No>
1991 (item 1227).
757. "Citizen Helen P. Blavatsky." The Daily Graphic (New York
July 9, 1878, p. 54.
"Mme. Helen P. Blavatsky enjoys the proud distinction of bein
the first female subject of the Czar who has renounced her allegiance I
the Empire and become a citizen of this great republic." Interviewed c
becoming a U.S. citizen July 8 , 1878.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 229
758. Clark, Abbott B. "H.P. Blavatsky on the Pacific Coast." The
Theosophical Forum 24:8 (August 1946): 343-46.
Clark claims the "San Francisco Bulletin" for 1854 mentions
LP.B., that she had a box at the Opera, and was accompanied by a tall
distinguished looking" Oriental.
759. Clark, Orange I. "H.P.B. and World-Wide Thought." The
Theosophical Forum 27:6 (June 1949): 337-39.
"To know what influence H.P.B. had it is necessary to know the
tate of public opinion when she began her work....Due to her writings,
vords which were rarely, if ever, heard of before her time are now in
very sphere of public thought, such words as intuition, karma,
eincamation, mahatmas, cosmic-consciousness, the electrical constitution
>fmatter, and many others."
760. Cleather, Alice Leighton. "Tampering with H.P. Blavatsky’s
writings," and "The Truth about the E.S. Council, and the Inner
Group." In H.P. Blavatsky, A Great Betrayal. Calcutta: Thacker,
Spink & Co., 1922. Rept. Vernon, B.C.: The "H.P.B." Library,
1979, pp. 71-89.
Mrs. Cleather charges Mrs. Besant with malicious intent toward
heir teacher by her editorial changes in Blavatsky’s writings. Gives some
general background on Blavatsky’s E.S. and Inner Group, which Cleather
vas a member of. The rest of the booklet deals with Besant’s 20th
entury exploits and "her blind and fanatical support of the sex pervert
nd pseudo-occultist C.W. Leadbeater."
7 6 1 .--------. H.P. Blavatsky, Her Life and Work for Humanity.
Calcutta: Thacker, Spink & Co., 1922. 125 pp.
Originally published in the Maha-Bodhi Journal, June 1922 to
4ay 1923, as "Bodhi Dharma or the Wisdom Religion." Writing as an
vowed "personal pupil" and "exponent of what she alone taught," Mrs.
230 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Cleather says Blavatsky did not found the Theosophical Society. "She die
no more than ‘assent’ to the proposals of others, and would only accep
the nominal office of Corresponding Secretary." Agrees with Sinnett’;
view in his Incidents (item 1148), Ch. 9, that "her Theosophic Missioi
appears to have had India as its objective point from the outset," and tha
she "came to India to plant the Theosophical Society in the soil where i
was destined chiefly to flourish." But the Society failed its test during th<
"Patterson-Coulomb-Hodgson conspiracy" for not defending H.P.B., anc
Blavatsky’s 1888 attempt at forming her Esoteric school was a last ditcl
attempt to gather together the worthy. Chapters discuss "The Antiquit]
of the Wisdom-Religion" and "Main Tenets of The Secret Doctrine."
7 6 2 .--------. H.P. Blavatsky As I Knew Her. Calcutta: Thacker, Spin!
& Co., 1923. Rept. Newington, Conn,: Spinxiad, 1976. Rept
Vernon, B.C.: The "H.P.B." Library, 1979, pp. 1-37.
Recalls her relations with Blavatsky from their meeting in Londoi
in 1887 to her death in 1891. "My personal recollections of H.P.B. an
so inextricably bound up with what she taught, and with what he
teachings did for me, that to recall the one is inevitably to draw the othe
into one’s conscious mind." The second part of the book, pp. 41-74
comprises item 780.
7 6 3 .------- . "Mr. J.M. Pryse and The Secret Doctrine." Letter to th<
Editor, The Occult Review (London), March 1927, pp. 189-91
Rept. in the Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association 3, Marcl
1927, pp. 27-33.
Replies to Pryse’s letter in the Canadian Theosophist (item 1098
calling charges of Besant and Mead’s mutilation of the third edition o
The Secret Doctrine "wholly false." Cleather says that she was shown j
few sheets of the MS. of Vol. 3, "and saw the extent to which they wen
edited."
7 6 4 .--------. "The Third Volume S.D." Letter to the Editor, 7
7
?<
Canadian Theosophist, Dec. 15, 1937, pp. 300-303.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 231
Appraises Besant’s editing of Blavatsky’s E.S. and Inner Group
Instructions in Vol. 3 of The Secret Doctrine. "Enough, however,
emains to constitute very valuable teaching not to be found anywhere
slse." Reproduces a page showing alterations.
765. Cobb, John Storer. "Mme. Blavatsky Defended." Letter to the
Editor, The World (New York), May 8 , 1877, p. 5.
Cobb says he has known her almost as long as she has been in
\merica. Has received letters from Russia from family members who
speak of Blavatsky "in terms of honor, respect and affection."
766. Cohen, Daniel. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 8 in Masters of the
Occult. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 1971, pp. 129-72.
Believes that H.P.B., though a "cynical and thoroughly dishonest
voman," was also "a genuine occultist." "The combination of cynic and
rue believer is not an uncommon one in occultism, and elsewhere for
hat matter." Replied to by item 8 6 8 .
767. Coleman, William Emmette. "The Alleged Use of Intoxicating
Liquors by Madame Blavatsky." Religio-Philosophical Journal,
April 7, 1888, p. 7.
Coleman accuses Blavatsky of the use of intoxicating beverages,
strong language, and smoking. Replied to by items 791, 1192, 1207.
768. Colenso [pseud.]. "Perplexities of Theosophy." Light (London),
July 6 , 1889, pp. 323-34.
Questions Blavatsky’s seven years in Tibet. Says her itinerary as
pven in Sinnett’s Incidents allows for only five. "Between India and
Tibet is the most formitable mountain barrier in the world." How did she
through? And then "how did she get out?" Replied to by items 712,
[193.
232 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
. "‘Colenso’s’ C ritic sLight (London), August 3, 1889, p.
7 6 9 .-----
365.
Colenso replies to his critics. Holds Mme. Blavatsky to sever
years in Tibet, but does not elaborate. Deals instead with Bertram
Keightley’s statements on reincarnation.
* Collins, Mabel. See Cook, Mabel Collins
770. Colville, William J. The Life and Writings of H.P. Blavatsky,
Boston: Colby & Rich, 1891. 23 pp. Rept. Madras, [c. 1891]. 1(
pp.
Colville, a Spiritualist lecturer, sums up Blavatsky’s life and worl
in this talk delivered in Boston, June 7, 1891. "Agree or disagree witl
some of her theories and actions as we may, we have nothing bu
admiration for one whose devotion to an unpopular cause was sufficien
to draw from her such a voluntary sacrifice."
771. "A Coming Buddhist Book. ‘The Veil of Isis’ and the Lady whc
is Writing it." The World (New York), Jan. 23, 1877, p. 5. Rept
as "An Interview with Madame Blavatsky." The America/
Theosophist 14:8 (May 1913): 628-31.
Blavatsky interviewed on the forthcoming publication of Isis
"‘They have been throwing mud at me ever since I came here, but tha
has been nothing to what will come when the book appears.’ But shi
laughed heartily at the prospect, and seemed to think that the adverse
criticisms which she expected from theologians and scientists would b
<
the best compliments she could receive."
772. Conway, Moncure D. "Madame Blavatsky at Adyar." The Arem
4:23 (October 1891): 579-90.
Works About H.P. BlavatsJcy 233
Conway’s Glasgow Herald article (item 316) revived, adding
Mme. Blavatsky’s explanation of her phenomena given privately to him
at the time. "It is glamour; people think they see what they do not see.
rhat is the whole of it." Replied to by items 821, 929.
7 7 3 .--------. "Adyar." Ch. 10 in My Pilgrimage to the Wise Men of the
East. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1906, pp. 195-214.
Reprises his visit to Mme. Blavatsky at Adyar one last time.
Repeats her "glamour" explanation, sneers at Olcott’s military title, and
reveals that he was in correspondence with Mme. Coulomb.
774. [Cook, Mabel Collins.] "A Mystic Adventuress. Blavatsky the
Modem Witch is Dead." The Sunday World (London), May 10,
1891, p. 1. Rept. as "Mabel Collins on Madame Blavatsky." The
Freethinker (London), May 17, 1891, p. 231.
Extremely unflattering pen portrait of the late Theosophical leader
’By One Who Found Her Out." "She was an imposter pure and simple;
3ut of the first water."
775. Cooper, Laura M. "How She Left Us." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15,
1891): 267-71. Rept. in item 695.
Miss Cooper, who nursed Blavatsky through her last illness,
ietails her condition from April 26 when she came down with influenza
o May 8 when she passed away. "One bad symptom was that from the
irst days of her illness, H.P.B. lost all desire for smoking her
cigarettes." Assisted at the last moment by C. F. Wright and W.R. Old,
Vliss Cooper says "so quietly did H.P.B. pass away that we hardly knew
he second she ceased to breathe; a great sense of peace filled the room,
ind we knelt quietly there until, first my sister, then the Countess
trrived."
776. Cooper-Oakley, Isabel. "Theosophy, Re-incarnation, etc, etc."
Letter to the Editor, Light (London), August 10, 1889, p. 383.
234 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Corrects Colenso’s statement in item 1838 that Mme. Blavatskj
left Madras in 1885 to avoid appearing in the witness-box. Mrs
Cooper-Oakley who was there says that H.P.B.’s doctor, Mrs. Scharlieb.
whose husband happened to be sheriff of Madras and devised th<
conveyance for getting her on board ship, "insisted after her seven
illness on her leaving before the hot weather set in."
7 7 7 .------- . "At Cairo and Madras." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15, 1891)
278-82. Rept. in item 695.
Mrs. Cooper-Oakley and her husband, joined later by C.W
Leadbeater, accompanied Blavatsky back to Madras at the beginning o
Nov. 1884. Narrates the events of their journey; at Cairo, where the;
gathered evidence against the character of the Coulombs, the voyage fron
Suez, where "every insulting remark that could be made about H.P.B
was heard," their reception at Colombo by Col. Olcott, and arrival a
Madras. Evaluates the situation in India as Hodgson found it, with "th<
whole Anglo-Indian community in arms" against Blavatsky.
778. Corson, Eugene Rollin, ed. Some Unpublished Letters of Helem
Petrovna Blavatsky. London: Rider & Co., [1929]. 255 pp.
Corson provides background on Blavatsky’s Sept. 1875 visit to hi
parents in Ithaca, N.Y., where his father, Hiram Corson, was Prof, o
Rhetoric and English Literature at Cornell. Gives text with commentar
of 18 letters from her between 1875-78, sometimes transcribed none to<
accurately for this book. Lengthy appraisal of her talents, her critics, an<
her attitude to Spiritualism. Says "she must be judged wholly as a geniu
and by what she accomplished." Reviewed by item 983.
* Cranston, Sylvia. See Atkins, Anita
779. Crosbie, Robert. "In Memory of H.P. Blavatsky." Theosoph
(Los Angeles) 10:7 (May 1922): 193-96.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 235
"The tenant occupying that body really left it when it was
wounded unto death on the field of battle [at Mentana, Italy, 1867], and
mother Entity by agreement took it. That incoming Entity was one of
Those who know,’ one of Those who had reached perfection, and who
used that body for the purpose of the work of the great Lodge of Masters
in the world."
780. Crump, Basil. "A Posthumous Attack on H.P.B." Addendum to
H.P. Blavatsky As I Knew Her (item 762), pp. 41-74.
Castigates Sinnett’s portrayal of Blavatsky as a fallible human
being in his Early Days of Theosophy in Europe (236).
781. Davey, Iona [Mrs. A.J. Davey]. "Bibliographical Notes on
References in The Secret Doctrine." Typescript, [1944]. iv, 110
pp.
"Wondering how best she could employ her leisure during the
winter of 1942-43, it was suggested to her that a bibliography of the
works and authors quoted in the Secret Doctrine by H.P.B. would be a
valuable addition to that work. This she steadily worked at with great
Datience, and produced a well tabulated alphabetical list involving over
seven hundred titles." Obituary, The Canadian Theosophist, Apr. 1945.
782. Davidge, John L. "H.P. Blavataky: An Unpublished Letter." The
Theosophist 57:2 (November 1935): 145-49.
Facsimile of a letter from H.P.B. to G. Soobiah Chetty, July 17,
1883, Ootacamund, with notation by K.H.
7 8 3 .--------. "The Last Will and Testament of H.P. Blavatsky." The
Theosophist 60:5 (February 1939): 355-60. Rept. in The American
Theosophist 28:5 (May 1940): 97-98.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Prints the text of H.P.B.’s Will (now in the High Court of
Madras), dated Jan. 31, 1885, Adyar, asking that those who would
remember her meet yearly at headquarters and read a verse of The Light
ofAsia and Bhagavad-gita. This was made the basis of the yearly "White
Lotus Day" commemoration by Olcott on May 8 , 1892. Identifies those
mentioned in her Will, and the final resting place of her ashes.
7 8 4 .--------. "Recollections of the Founders." The Theosophical Worker
(Adyar), August 1941, pp. 171-72.
H.P.B.’s three month stay with General and Mrs. Morgan at
Ootacamund during the summer of 1883, as told by a Mr. Oakes. Both
Mme. Blavatsky and Mrs. Morgan were interested in the Todas, a tribe
in the Nilgiris.
785. Davis, Kate Buffington. "Theosophy and H.P. Blavatsky." The
Arena 16:80 (July 1896): 292-97.
"While as students we love and honor the advanced pupil of the
masters who heroically fulfilled her difficult mission of pointing anew the
way to wisdom, yet no Theosophist pins his faith to the personal dictum
of any teacher. The teachings of the Theosophical Society do not indorse
credulity or personal authority."
786. Davy, Ted G. "Sir Edwin Arnold and H.P. Blavatsky." The
Canadian Theosophist 56:3 (July-Aug. 1975): 66-67.
The author of The Light ofAsia on Blavatsky. Quotes an interviev
from the Canadian Theosophical journal, The Lamp, Dec. 1895, where
he speaks of knowing Blavatsky.
7 8 7 .--------. "Spiritualism and Spiritual Evolution: An Early Blavatsk]
Letter." The Canadian Theosophist 64:3 (July-Aug. 1983): 49-54
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 237
Reprints letter from Blavatsky to C.C. Massey of London,
commenting on correspondence in the Jan. 28, 1876 Spiritualist. Written
it the same time as she was working on her first book, Isis Unveiled, this
letter shows the evolution of her philosophical ideas away from
Spiritualism. Contains her earliest known reference to reincarnation.
Massey sent the letter to the Spiritualist and it was published in their
March 10, 1876 issue.
788. "Death of Mdme. Blavatsky." The Pall Mall Gazette, May 9,
1891, p. 4.
"Her career has probably never been matched outside the pages of
romance....Either she was what she represented herself to be—‘a
messenger from the Masters’—or she was the most shameless, most
gigantic, and most perfect fraud which the century has produced."
789. "Death of Mme. Blavatsky. Famous as one of the Founders of the
Theosophical Society." The Sun (New York), May 9, 1891, p. 1.
Dated from London, May 8 , the Sun announces that she died three
weeks previously. The rest of the obituary is as accurate. "Dr. Elliott
Coues...whose interesting disclosures were printed in The Sun last
summer, believes that she invented the scheme in India to cover political
intrigues, and when dropped by the Russian Government, used it as a
means of livelihood."
790. De Camp, Lyon Sprague, and Catherine C. De Camp. "The
Meddlesome Mahatmas." Ch. 13 in Spirits, Stars and Spells. The
Profits and Perils of Magic. New York: Canaveral Press, 1966,
pp. 257-76.
As part of an overall debunking of "pseudo-sciences" and their
"credophiles," the chapter on Blavatsky surpasses previous attempts in
naccuracy: Baron Meyendorffs sister-in-law "wrote about the episode"
}f Blavatsky’s supposedly illegtimate child; Blavatsky persuaded Olcott
:o desert his wife and children [divorce proceedings were in progress
238 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
before they met]; Olcott’s law practice ruined by his notoriety; Hodgson
submitted samples of Helena’s and some Mahatma letters "to a team of
handwriting experts" who reported against her, etc., etc. The following
sentence is typical: "Helena’s occult glamour caught the fish, while
Olcott’s business ability cleaned them for frying."
791. Densmore, Helen. "Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor,
Religio-Philosophical Journal, May 5, 1888, p. 6 .
Mrs. Densmore, who knew Blavatsky in New York in 1875,
replies to Coleman’s charges in item 767. "I was a frequent visitor at her
house; often saw her at meals. I have a distinct recollection that she not
only did not use wine at that time, but that she refused all alcholic drinks,
and explained that she had never been able to use any....Madame
Blavatsky did then and does now smoke cigarettes....In regard to
swearing: Madame Blavatsky often indulges in a freedom of expression
which would no doubt be shocking to the machine-made religionist of the
modem Christian Church....Let us be just—be fair. Madame Blavatsky,
no doubt has grave limitations; who of us have not?...Let us discuss
principles rather than people."
792. "The Departure of H.P.B." The Vahan (London), May 15, 1891,
pp. 1-4.
Earliest notification in the Theosophical press of H.P.B.’s deatti
on Friday May 8 th, at 2:25 in the afternoon.
793. Dharmapala, Anagarika. "My Association with H.P.B.'
Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association 1. November 13, 1924,
pp. 52-55.
Dharmapala was elected a member of the Blavatsky Associatior
on Mar. 24, 1924. In his letter of acknowledgement he says thai
Blavatsky came to India to revive the teachings of Buddhism. Mentions
his 1884 visit to Adyar.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 239
7 9 4 .--------. "The Ven. The Anagarika Dharmapala’s Speech."
Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association 2. November 13, 1925,
pp. 12-19.
Speech made in London, Oct. 9, 1925, at a meeting of the
Blavatsky Association. Speaks of his meeting Blavatsky in Ceylon, his
accompanying her to Adyar at the end of 1884 at the age of 20, and the
results of her admonition to him to study Pali. Says he wrote Blavatsky
in London about his decision to start a center for the revival of Buddhism
in India, "five months before she died, and she had replied ‘It is very
woodwork, Continue.’"
795. Ditson, George Leighton. Letter to the Editor, The Banner of
Light (Boston), November 27, 1875, p. 8 .
Ditson had travelled in the Caucasus and met H.P.B.’s relatives.
Te presents something of her background. "Of Madam B. herself, I know
From the Governor (Baron Nicolaiv) of Tiflis, that she is the widow of
he late Governor of Erivan, and that she had the distinguished friendship
)f such persons as the Prince and Princess Woronzoff, Prince Kottubiz,
ind many other notables whom I had the pleasure of knowing in Southern
Russia and Circassia."
796. Doubleday, Abner. "General Doubleday in Defence of Madame
Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Religio-Philosophical Journal,
April 28, 1888, p. 6 .
Doubleday’s version of the reason behind Blavatsky’s second
narriage to Michael Betanelly, in Philadelphia, Apr. 3, 1875. "As she
aw that he was impelled by some of the dark denizens on the other side
>fthe line to commit suicide in case he was refused, she consented to the
ceremony, but made it a condition that she was never to see him
igain....The groom attempted to pursue her, but finding she would have
nothing to do with him, obtained a divorce for desertion and married
igain."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
797. Dubbink, J. H. "A Short Historical Introduction" to The Innei
Group Teachings ofH.P. Blavatsky to her personal pupils (1890
91). Compiled by H.J. Spierenburg. San Diego: Point Lonu
Publications, 1985, pp. vi-xxi.
Identifies the six men and six women who were members o
H.P.B.’s Inner Group of the E.S. and received private teaching througl
her from Aug. 1890 to Apr. 1891: Annie Besant, Alice L. Cleather
Laura M. Cooper, Isabel Cooper-Oakley, Herbert A.W. Coryn
Archibald Keightley, Emily Kislingbury, G.R.S. Mead, Walter R. Old
E.T. Sturdy, Constance Wachtmeister, and Claude Falls Wright, alonj
with two special members who did not attend, Rai B.K. Laheri of India
and W.W. Westcott.
798. Dunlop, Daniel Nicol. "Interview with Mr. W. B. Yeats." T
h<
Irish Theosophist (Dublin) 2:2 (November 15, 1893): 15-T
[misnumbered 147-49].
Yeats reminisces about experiences with Blavatsky in London
Says that she predicted "that the power of England would not outlive th<
century."
799. Dunn, E. J. "Some Impressions of H.P.B." The Vahan (London
22:4 (November 1, 1912): 69-71.
A visit to H.P.B. in London, 1889. "The afternoon and evenin;
were mostly taken up with questions by the circle of neophytes an
visitors, and answers by H.P.B. The subjects ranged from problems o
abstruse metaphysics and occultism, to those of practical everyday life
and presented a most kaleidoscopic display of thought. Her answers wer
ready, witty and unequivocal."
800. E. E. D. "Madame Blavatsky." The Home Journal (New York)
March 18, 1891.
241
Dated Feb. 1891, London, the reporter covers an "informal Friday
evening reception" at 19 Avenue Road. Describes Mme. Blavatsky—"she
is simply immense, and apparently has relinquished all attempt in the way
of personal adornment"—Countess Wachtmeister, and Annie Besant.
* E. S. B. See Bates, Ernest Sutherland
801. Edge, Henry T. "Was H.P. Blavatsky a Plagiarist?" The
Theosophical Path (Point Loma, CA) 1:4 (October 1911): 271-75.
Evaluates the contradictory charges against Blavatsky "inventing
her teachings and also plagiarizing them from other people; her works are
said to be at once a stale rehash, and a new fad." Edge observes that
"The riddle of ancient knowledge is not solved by merely collecting the
scattered fragments."
8 0 2 .--------. "Personal Recollections of H.P. Blavatsky." The
Theosophical Path 37:2 (February 1930): 107-116.
Blavatsky in her aspect of a philosophical teacher. Edge made her
acquaintance at the end of 1887 and became her pupil.
8 0 3 .--------. "Birthday of H.P. Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, The
Theosophical Forum> July 1938, p. 62.
On the date of Blavatsky’s birth. Edge says it might now be
between Aug. 12 and 13, adjusting the July 30/31 Old Style date, for
since 1900 there are 13 days difference between the Gregorian and Julian
calenders.
8 0 4 .--------. "Memories of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophical Forum
21:8 (August 1943): 337-44. Rept. as "Why I Became a
Theosophist." Theosophia (Los Angeles) 16:4 (Spring 1960): 5-9.
242 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
Edge was introduced to Theosophy through Sinnett’s books in th<
Cambridge University Library while a student there in 1887. He was i
member of the S.P.R. and knew Myers and Prof. Sidgwick. Tells of thi
effect of his visit to Blavatsky in London at the end of 1887. He joinec
the Theosophical Society in 1888. "In person she was rather short, an<
as is visible in many of her portraits, she was at this time corpulent
owing to maladies caused by her labors and sufferings; the effect beinj
enhanced by the need for loose and easy apparel."
805. The Editors of Theosophy Magazine. "Critical Memorandum fo
Editors and Reviewers on Priestess of the Occult by Gertrudi
Marvin Williams." Los Angeles, Nov. 25, 1946. Typescript. 1.
pp.
Reviews Williams’ 1946 biography Priestess ofthe Occult (1211)
Maintains that the book "stands alone in the completeness with which thi
slanders and misstatements about the founder of the Theosophica
Movement have been collected and placed in a narrative that is as fals<
as it is superficially glib." Dismisses it as "simply fiction with histories
trimmings" because of its one-sided approach. Presents instances when
Williams has embellished on the sources cited.
806. Eklund, Dara. "Notes on the Wurzburg Manuscript." Ii
Symposium on H.P. Blavatsky's Secret Doctrine (item 1128), pp
42-45.
Compares Blavatsky’s original draft of The Secret Doctrine, no\
in the T.S. Archives at Adyar, India, with material in the third volum
of The Secret Doctrine published in London 1897.
807. Ellmann, Richard. "Combatting the ‘Materialists.’" Ch. 5 i
Yeats. The Man and the Masks. New York: Macmillan, 1948, pp
56-69. Rept. N.Y.: Dutton, 1958. Rept. N.Y.: Norton, 1979.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 243
Madame Blavatsky and her influence on Dubliners Yeats, Charles
tohnston, Claude Falls Wright, George Russell. Reprints Yeats’ "Esoteric
Section Journal" 1889/90.
808. Ellwood, Robert S., Jr. "The American Theosophical Synthesis."
Ch. 5 in The Occult in America: New Historical Perspectives, ed.
by Howard Kerr and Charles L. Crow. Urbana: University of
Illinois Press, 1983, pp. 111-34.
The sources of Theosophical teaching as exemplified in Isis
Unveiled—Neoplatonic occultism, the 19th century interpretation of
Gnosticism, Transcendentalism, Spiritualismand Freemasonry. Revealing
footnote, 22, on plagiarism in Isis.
809. Endersby, Victor. The Hall ofMagic Mirrors. New York: Carlton
Press, 1969. 351 pp.
Started as a reply to John Symonds 1959 biography of Blavatsky
item 1167), Endersby examines not only a number of critical issues
aised regarding Blavatksy’s life, but also investigates the validity of
iccepted sources, Williams, Witte, Hodgson. Based on his professional
experience as an engineer by profession and contributor to the
Incyclopedia Britannica, he reconstructs plans for the "Shrine" cabinet
it Adyar and wall measurements. His chapter on the calligraphy of the
Mavatsky and Mahatma letters attempts to rival Hodgson in detail. As a
esult of his research, Endersby concedes that "a major reason for H.P.B.
lot having been vindicated long ago is that the whole case is so infernally
implicated. The needed material is there but the details are infinite,
echnical and inextricably intertwined."
* Ephesian. See Bechhofer-Roberts, Carl E.
810. Ervast, Pekka. nH.P.B." Four Episodesfrom the life ofthe Sphinx
of the XIXth Century. London: Theosophical Publishing House,
1933. 63 pp.
244 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
A play in four acts covering major events in Blavatsky’s life
meeting her Indian teacher in London in 1851, a gathering in Paris ii
1873, receiving the S.P.R. Report at Wurzburg, 1886, to her death ii
London in 1891.
811. "An Esoteric Pauper. Mme. Blavatsky, the High Priestess o
Buddhism." The World (New York), Sept. 21, 1890, p. 7.
"Mme. Blavatsky, the high priestess of esoteric Buddhism an<
founder of the Theosophical Society, has taken up her residence wit]
Annie Besant in St. John’s Wood, a quiet little suburb of London....A
all events, the colossal Theosophist and her quaint but enthusiasti
disciple are living together in peace and comparative happiness."
812. Evans, Henry Ridgely. "Madame Blavatsky: High Priestess o
Isis." The Cosmopolitan (New York) 28:2 (December 1899'
241-48.
"Notwithstanding all his past experiences—as soldier, lawyer
journalist—Colonel Olcott met his Waterloo at Chittenden. He sacrifice*
his common sense and reason on the altar of superstition and credulity.
Goes on to give Blavatsky’s antecedents, her phenomena in India with th
Coulombs, Hodgson’s verdict, Solovyov’s eyewitness account, and end
with Coleman’s charge of plagiarism.
8 1 3 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophists." In Hours Wit
Ghosts, or Nineteenth Century Witchcraft. Chicago: Laird & Le
[1897], pp. 213-97.
A portrait of Blavatsky drawn from Solovyov, Coleman, an
Hodgson. "She was the Sphinx of the second half of this Century;
Pythoness in tinsel robes who strutted across the world’s stage ‘full c
sound and fury,’ and disappeared from view behind the dark veil of Isis
which she, the fin-de-siecle prophetess, tried to draw aside during he
earthly career."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 245
814. Fisher, Marian R. "Blavatsky, Madame (1831-1891)." In
Victorian Britian. An Encyclopedia, ed. by Sally Mitchell. New
York & London: Garland Publishing, 1988, pp. 82-83.
Brief entry identifying her as a Spiritualist and claiming that in
1885 she "was declared a fraud by the London Society for Psychical
Research."
815. Fodor, Nandor. "Blavatsky, Mme. Helena Petrovna." In the
Encyclopaedia ofPsychic Science. London: Arthurs Press, [1934].
Rept. Hyde Park, NY: University Books, 1966, 1969, pp. 31-33.
Rept. in the Encyclopaedia of Occultism and Parapsychology, ed.
by Leslie Shepard. Detroit: Gale Research Co., 1981, pp. 159-62.
Reprinting Fodor’s outline of Blavatsky’s life, Shepard adds: "The
character of this remarkable woman was too complex for instant
udgements on whether she was a genuine mystic or a charlatan. In fact,
she seemed to manifest genuine paranormal phenomena with the same
jnconcern as the most childish frauds. She had a great contempt for
;tupidity, and it is possible that much of her undoubted trickery was
performed as a prank, to mock the credulity of foolish followers."
816. Foote, George William. The New Cagliosrro. An Open Letter to j
Madame Blavatsky. London: Progressive Publishing Company, \
1889. 16 pp.
Stung by Blavatsky’s The Thersites of Freethought (631) dealing
vith his attack on her character (item 327), Foote turns the table on her
md quotes Mme. Coulomb and Richard Hodgson on her bona fides.
817. "Founding a Modem Religion? Modem Miracle Working." The
Pall Mall Gazette, May 11, 12, 1891, pp. 1-2.
"Mdme. Blavatsky’s death has aroused interest once more in the
:xtraordinary events which made her name famous, and which many of
tur readers will have half-forgotten, or perhaps never clearly realized."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Begins with Blavatsky’s meeting the Coulombs in Cairo, her later rise tc
prominence during the London season of 1884 led to the Society fo;
Psychical Research and Hodgson’s "sweeping indictment" based on th<
Coulomb letters.
818. Francis, T. M. [pseud.]. Blavatsky, Besant and Co., (The Stor
of a Great Anti-Christian Fraud). With a Preface by Herber
Thurston, S.J. St. Paul: Library Service Guild, 1939. I ll pp.
The great Catholic exposure of Blavatsky, "in which the amazing
career of this versatile Russian adventuress, as traveller, spiritualis
medium, bigamist is set forth from her own undisputed letters, and th<
testimony of her cousin Count S.J. Witte," and like sources. Presents th<
gist of previous revelations against her, supplies possible motives—
"notoriety, power-seeking, vanity, and hatred of Christianity"—as wel
as a "Who’s Who" of the leading participants in the 19th century spectacli
known to the public as Theosophy.
819. Fuller, Jean Overton. Blavatsky and her teachers. An investigate
biography. London: East-West Publications / Theosophica
Publishing House, 1988. 270 pp.
Attempts to unravel some of the riddles in Blavatsky’s life, bu
gets lost in the labyrinth of Blavatskiana by too easy a dismissal c
material regarded as suspect. Solovyov is an unreliable witness, and s
<
the excerpts of letters from Blavatsky to Aksakov that he quotes ar
suspect. One is called a forgery because Blavatsky makes a reference t<
Philadelphia, "but on 13 December 1874, she had not yet been t
Philadelphia" (p. 188). Yet by Blavatsky’s own words she had attende
a seance at the Holmeses there on Dec. 2 and 3rd, B:CW 1, 63. Th
crucial date of the arrival of the Coulombs is pushed up to Jan. 28, 188
on p. 72, as a guess rectifying Olcott’s obviously mistaken date of Jun
28 in Old Diaty Leaves 2. But Olcott’s context establishes the date. H
describes the appearance of a Mahatma while he, H.P.B. and Damoda
were out driving on Worli Bridge in Bombay on the evening of Mar. 25
"Three days later" (the emphasis is his) the Coulombs arrived. Olcott’
implication being: who was the confederate here. Miss Fuller’s early dat
Norks About H.P. Blavatsky 247
nisses the point. Mme. Coulomb in her pamphlet (item 1841) p. 7, quite
Nearly gives the date of Mar. 28, 1880, for their arrival in Bombay. But
hen Madame Coulomb is a suspect witness.
820. Fullerton, Alexander. "Seeing Little: Perceiving Much." Lucifer
8:47 (July 15, 1891): 380-81. Rept. in item 695.
Met Blavatsky in London, Aug. 1887. "If I have to bless her for
;reat, transcendent benefit which illuminates each day of life, I can also
hank her for words and acts which cheer it."
8 2 1 .--------. "A Reply to Mr. Conway." The Theosophical Forum
(New York), no. 29, November 1891, pp. 1-5.
Submits three possible interpretations of Blavatsky’s "glamour"
esponse to Moncure Conway (item 772). 1, "I make no secret of my
rauds to you, and all the less so because you have a congregation and
an ‘give me away’ to the world. Your position entitles you to unreserved
rankness." 2, "No small part of the optical marvels I know how to
lerform are through illusion." 3, "You soft-headed and innocent old
;oose, do you really suppose that I am going seriously to answer a person
vho proclaims in advance his mission here as you did, and expects to see
ne execute phenomena whereon he may write a sermon for his London
>abes?" Fullerton suggests it is the third.
8 2 2 .--------. "H.P.B. and the T.S." In White Lotus Day, Eleventh
Anniversary. Bombay: Blavatsky Lodge, T.S., 1902. 20 pp.
Fullerton compares the transformation between H.P. Blavatsky the
ccentric Bohemian, and H.P.B. the teacher, to that of the Society from
henomena to philosophy.
823. Fussell, Joseph H. "H.P.B.’s ‘Inner Group.’" The Theosophical
Forum (Point Loma, CA), April-Dee. 1940, Jan.-April 1941.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Week by week attendance for the twenty meetings of Blavatsky’
Inner Group, held between Aug. 20, 1890, and Apr. 22, 1891, witl
extracts and summations of the teachings delivered, based on two recon
books in the Archives of the Point Loma T.S. One "copied—July 1891-
for W.Q.J." by Alice Cleather, and another belonging to Claude Fall
Wright (a third belonging to Herbert Coryn was later discovered)
Fourteen members were admitted to the I.G., among whom Fussell place
W.Q. Judge, but Judge was never admitted during H.P.B.’s lifetime.
824. Fussell, Paul. "E.M. Forster’s Mrs. Moore: Some Suggestions.
Philological Quarterly 32:4 (October 1953): 388-95.
Suggests that the character of Mrs. Moore in Forster’s Passage t
India is based on Mme. Blavatsky. Furnishes examples of similarities c
temperament.
825. Gebhard, Arthur. "A Word to Brother Theosophists." The Occm
Word (Rochester, NY), April 1886. Rept. in the Supplement t
The Theosophist, June 1886, pp. cxxxiv-vii.
On Mme. Blavatsky’s status in the Society. Says she should b
defended when slandered.
826. "Ghost Stories Galore. A Night of Many Wonders at Second Han
in the Eighth Avenue Lamasery." The World (New York), Apr
21, 1878, p. 9. Rept. in The Theosophist 5:7 (April 1884
167-68.
Countess Lydia Pashkova’s account of meeting H.P.B. near tl
village of Dair Mar Maroon between the Lebanon and the Anti-Lebanc
Mts.
827. Gibbon, W. Monk. "AE—the Years of Mystery." The Dubh
Magazine n.s. 31:1 (Jan.-Mar. 1956): 8-21.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 249
Did AE ever meet H.P.B.? Gibbon describes a dinner at Yeats’
lome with George Russell and others where Blavatsky was criticized,
^fter leaving AE told Gibbon, "They may say what they like of her but
have seen her do some wonderful things."
828. Gilbert, Robert A. The Golden Dawn and the Esoteric Section.
London: Theosophical History Centre, 1987. 24 pp.
Insists that Blavatsky’s Esoteric Section of the T.S., founded in
x>ndon in 1888, "was created specifically to avert the loss of would-be
ractical occultists to the ranks of the Golden Dawn [also created in 1888]
nd to prevent a complete split between the followers of the Eastern and
lose of the Western Path." Concentrates on the activities of members in
Bradford who belonged to both groups. But Blavatsky had aired the idea
f forming a private body of students, "a school of my own," as early as
le beginning of 1887. See Wachtmeister’s Reminiscences (item 1195).
829. Godwin, John. "A Pattern of Psychics." Ch. 7 in Occult America.
Garden City, NY: Doubleday & Co., 1972, pp. 130-35.
"It is hard to overestimate Madame Blavatsky’s influence on the
American metaphysical scene. Portions of her teachings have been
icorporated into virtually every occult group extant though mostly
ithout giving her a credit line."
830. Godwin, Joscelyn. "H.P.B., Doijeff, and the Mongolian
Connection." Theosophical History 2:7 (July 1988): 253-60.
Cites a reference in Vol. 10 of The Notebooks of Paul Brunton of
meeting with a Mongolian in Cambodia who relates something of
lavatsky’s early history—travelling to Tibet in 1849, penetrating the
ambodian jungle to the temples of Angor, and later meeting "Doijeff,"
fellow disciple and protector. Godwin identifies Doijeff with
\hambra-Agvan-Doijiew" (b. c. 1850-d. Leningrad 1938), a Mongolian
lvisor to the 12th Dalai Lama who had tried to forge a Tibetan-Russian
ik.
250 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
831. Goldfarb, Russell M. "Madame Blavatsky." Journal of Popula,
Culture 5:3 (Winter 1971): 660-72. Rept. in The Occult: Studie,
and Evaluations, ed. by Robert Galbreath. Bowling Green, Ohio
Bowling Green University Popular Press, 1972, pp.32-44.
Blavatsky’s life stressing her literary influence on Yeats, Ernes
Rhys, James Joyce, E.M. Forster, and William James.
832. Goldman, Albert. "The Swami." Ch. 25 in Elvis. New York
McGraw Hill, 1981, pp. 366-67. Paperback rept. NY: Avoi
Books, 1982, pp. 436-38.
"Elvis always had on hand copies of Madame Blavatsky’s writing
....In fact, one little volume purporting to be translations by Blavatsky o
the most ancient runes of Tibet, The Voice of Silence [sic], was such
favorite of Elvis’s that he sometimes read from it on stage and wa
inspired by it to name his own gospel group, Voice." But, explain
Goldman, "Madame Blavatsky was simply an imposter who was expose*
many times in her own day, being driven from country to country, as ii
each place the truth about her was discovered."
833. Gomes, Michael. "Notes on Spiritualism and Spiritual Evolution.
The Canadian Theosophist 64:4 (Sept.-Oct. 1983): 87.
Contributes the context for the 1876 letter from Blavatsk
reprinted in item 787, clarifying a number of references in the text.
8 3 4 .------- . "Fragments From H.P.B. ’s ‘Mystical History. ’"Appendi
2 in H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 14. Wheaton, IL
Theosophical Publishing House, 1985, pp. 475-96.
Transcribes Blavatsky’s footnotes and comments to her sister Ver
Zhelihovsky’s article "The Truth About Helena Petrovna Blavatsky,
Rebus 1883. The manuscript of Blavatsky’s translation, now in th
Archives of the Theosophical Society, Adyar, was heavily adapted b
Sinnett for his Incidents in the Life ofMadame Blavatsky (1148), and th
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 251
ranscription notes where the material was incorporated in Sinnett’s text.
Tie whole of Blavatsky’s translation was printed in The Theosophist
4ay-Nov. 1991 with notes by myself. See item 1227.
8 3 5 .--------. "Interview with Madame Blavatsky, Paris, 1884." The
Canadian Theosophist 67:5 (Nov.-Dec. 1986): 97-102.
Blavatsky interviewed by the English Morning News of Paris,
kpril 21, 1884. Comments on Moncure Conway’s visit to Adyar,
rejudice against women in the East, the 1857 Mutiny in India, and F.
larion Crawford’s Mr. Isaacs.
8 3 6 .--------. "The Making of The Secret Doctrine." In H.P. Blavatsky
and The Secret Doctrine (item 864), 2nd ed. 1988, pp. 31-44.
Rept. in The Theosophist 109:8 (May 1988): 293-301. Rept. in
The Theosophical Journal (London), Sept.-Oct., Nov.-Dec. 1988.
The events that shaped the making of Blavatsky’s magnum opus,
>ld mainly through eyewitness acounts supplied by the Countess
/achtmeister.
3 3 7 .--------. "Extract of a Letter from H.P.B. to a London Group,
1887." The Theosophist 109:10 (July 1988): 386-89.
The text from Countess Wachtmeister’s diary of a letter by
lavatsky to a small group of London Theosophists—Bertram and
rchibald Keightley, Ashton Ellis, and others—who were eventually
sponsible for bringing H.P.B. to London and the revival of
tieosophical work there in 1887.
138.--------. "Initial Spiritualist Response to H.P.B." The Canadian
Theosophist 70:2 (May-June 1989): 27-34.
Response to Blavatsky by American Spiritualists, 1875, furnished
r their correspondence to each other. As Epes Sargent (1816-1880) of
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centut
Boston explained to Hiram Corson of Cornell, May 19, 1875, M
She seen
full of energy and persistency, and as I cannot imagine any motive excej
a sincere and worthy one that impels her to do what she is doing f<
Spiritualism, I have been disposed to render all the help I could."
8 3 9 .--------. "R.B. Westbrook’s ‘Reminiscences of Original America
Theosophists.’" The Canadian Theosophist 11:2 (May-June 1990
27-33.
Reprints Richard Brodhead Westbrook’s 1889 "Reminiscences <
Original American Theosophists" (item 1202), about his experiences wil
Olcott and Blavatsky in 1875 with commentary.
8 4 0 .--------. "H.P.B.’s American Correspondence." The Canadic
Theosophist, Sept.-Oct. 1990-Jan.-Feb. 1991.
Ten little-known letters from Blavatsky written during 1877-78
reprinted here for the first time.
8 4 1 .------- . "India’s Debt to H.P.B." The Kerala Theosophist 5:
(April 1991): 4-8. Rept. in Wake Up India (Madras) 14:2 (Apr
June 1991): 9-11. Rept. in Theosophy in Australia 55:2 (Jui
1991): 32-34. Rept. in The Indian Theosophist (Varanasi) 88
(August 1991): 166-70.
Blavatsky’s contribution to the changing image of India in the 19
century. Based on the H.P.B. Memorial Lecture delivered at Adya
Madras, April 28, 1991.
8 4 2 .--------. "H.P.B. on Esoteric Buddhism." The Theosophist 112
(June 1991): 444-47.
H.P.B.’s method of dealing with members of the Lodge of tl
Society formed around her in England, illustrated by four obscure lette
from her, 1888/89, to Capt C. Pfoundes reprinted froni item 416.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 253
8 4 3 .--------, comp. H.P.B. teaches. An Anthology. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1992. vi, 579 pp.
A chronological selection of forty of Blavatsky’s most
epresentative articles with background by the compiler on the seven
eriods in her life when they were written.
8 4 4 .--------. "Press Coverage of H.P.B.’s Death, 1891." Theosophy in
New Zealand, December 1992, pp. 8 -1 1 , 23.
Samples the reporting of Blavatsky’s death in 1891 by the press
i England, India and America.
845. Gordon, Alice. "Reminiscences of Madame Blavatsky." Lucifer
8:47 (July 15, 1891): 374-75. Rept. in item 695.
Mrs. Gordon made the journey to Allahabad, North India, from
sr home in Howrah, to meet H.P.B. who was visiting the Sinnetts in
>ec. 1879. Says "no journey in my life has ever repaid me so well, or
sen the source of so much and permanent satisfaction." Recites
lavatsky’s enduring qualities.
346. Grasshoff, Carl Louis von [Max Heindel]. Blavatsky and the
Secret Doctrine. Los Angeles: Phoenix Press, 1933. 133 pp. Rept.
Santa Monica, CA: De Vorss & Co., 1972, 1979. 95 pp. Rept.
Mokelumne Hill, CA: Health Research. 133 pp. Rept. San Diego,
CA: Wizards Bookshelf, 1991. 95 pp.
Notes of two lectures before the Los Angeles T.S. giving a brief
storical background from item 1195 and a short summation of The
7
.cret Doctrine.
547. Grazie. "Some Things Written About H.P. Blavatsky." The
Theosophical Quarterly 29:1 (July 1931): 23-31.
254 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
From the Mahatma Letters, where the writer has located ninet
references to Blavatsky’s "work, her sufferings, her achievements.
Provides samples.
848. Griffiths, Allan. "Priestess Blavatsky. Sketch of her Life." Lc
Angeles Evening Express, May 27, 1891. Rept. June 6 , 9, 1891
8 4 9 .--------. "Madame H.P. Blavatsky." The New Californian (Sa
Francisco) 1:1 (June 1891): 22-25.
Explains that her impact can only be judged against the time sh
presented her teachings of "Reincarnation, Karma, the Compound Natui
of man, the Microcosm within the Macrocosm, Involution an
Evolution."
850. Guignette, Jean-Paul. "Madame Blavatsky at Fontainebleau." 77;
Canadian Theosophist 66:5 (Nov.-Dec. 1985): 101-4.
Identifies Mme. Blavatsky’s residence while visitingFontaineble*
with American Theosophist Mrs. Ida Garrison Candler in July 1889 i
the Hotel de la Ville de Lyons et de Londres at the far end of rue Royal
Narrows the date of her arrival to July 5, and that of Annie Besant i
July 19, from information in The Fontainebleau Bee (L’
Abeille c
Fontainebleau). Includes postcard views of the buildings demolished
the beginning of this century.
8 5 1 .------- . Bibliography ofBiographical Studies on Helena Petrovt
Blavatsky (1831-1891). London: Theosophical History Centr
1987. 12 pp.
Lists 86 books and pamphlets referring to Blavatsky under fo
categories: Biographies, Accounts for and against, Blavatsky and tl
Theosophical Movement, and particular studies.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 255
852. "H.P. Blavatsky—Co-Founder." In The Theosophical Year Book,
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1937, pp. 178-81; 1938,
pp. 158-81. Rept. in The Handbook of the Indian Section, The
Theosophical Society. Varanasi: Indian Section, T.S., 1948, 1975,
pp. 56-61.
Outline of Blavatsky’s life from a Theosophical perspective.
853. "H.P. Blavatsky’s Adieux. The Ci-Devant Countess Ready to
Depart for the East." The Daily Graphic (New York), December
10, 1878, p. 266.
"Oh! how glad I shall be to see my dear Indian home again,"
Ime. Blavatsky told the reporter for the Daily Graphic, who
ommented, "and as she arose and wrapped a morning gown of strange
esign about her, she looked very much the Oriental priestess which she
laims she is—not."
854. "H.P.B.’s Return to India." The Daily Graphic (New York), Dec.
19, 1878, p. 338.
"Citizen H.P. Blavatsky, the widow of Nikiforran Blavatsky, and
ommonly known to herself and intimate friends as ‘H.P.B.,’ sailed
esterday for Liverpool, en route to India."
855. Haemmerle, Alfred. "Memories of Madame Blavatsky." The
Canadian Theosophist 21:3 (May 15, 1940): 65-67.
The garden of the Gebhards, Elberfeld, Germany, summer 1884.
[aemmerle, who was then nine years old, recalls those assembled:
reiherr G. Gebhard, Baron and Baroness du Prel, Count and Countess
preti (the sister of Franz Hartmann), Dr. Hiibbe-Schleiden, Elliott
oues, Col. Olcott, Mme. Blavatsky, and his mother, Mme. Haemmerle.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
856. Hall, Manly P. "Special Class in [the] Secret Doctrine ii
Appreciation of H.P.B. (Madame Blavatsky)." Manuscript Serie
No. 36. Offset Typescript, n.d. 30 pp.
Answers by Hall to 100 questions relating to H.P.B. and Thi
Secret Doctrine as part of a class he gave "around 1925."
8 5 7 .--------. "H.P.B. The Russian Sphinx." In The Phoenix. At
IllustratedReview ofOccultism and Philosophy. Los Angeles: Hal
Publishing Co., 1931-32, pp. 84-95, 1945, 1956, 1960, 1971, pp
111-24.
"Madame Blavatsky’s greatest ‘miracles’ are her books and by he
writings she is elevated far beyond the reach of her calumniators. He
literary accomplishments and not materialized teacups are the hall mark
of her genius....Remove H.P. Blavatsky, and the structure of moden
occultism falls like a house of cards. The Secret Doctrine contain
practically all that is known on the subject of occultism that it i
permissible to print, and every page is a veritable treasure house o
esoteric lore."
858. Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus. "H.P.B.’s Sketchbook." 7
7
i<
Theosophist 56:4 (January 1935): 377-85.
Text and facsimile reproductions of pages from a small notebook
kept by H.P.B. in England in 1851. First page contains a reference t<
meeting her Indian Teacher on her 20th birthday, Aug. 12, 1851.
8 5 9 .--------. "Leaves from the Archives I-X, XII." The Theosophist
Feb.-Apr. 1936, June 1939.
Jottings relating to documents in the Archives of the Theosophies
Society at Adyar, bearing annotations by Mme. Blavatsky, concerning he
authorship of unsigned articles, and about her rooms at Adyar.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 251
8 6 0 .--------[Arya Asanga]. Introduction to The Voice of the Silence,
by H.P. Blavatsky. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1939,
1944, 1948, 1953, 1959, 1964, pp. 9-97.
Hamerster’s introduction, prepared for the golden jubilee edition
the Voice, provides information on the original printing, eyewitness
iccounts of the writing of the book at Fontainebleau, 1889, and its
eception later that year, along with notes on Mahayana Buddhism and
erms used, an outline of the structure of the poem, and facsimiles of
copies inscribed by Blavatsky, and her draft for the title page.
8 6 1 .--------[Arya Asanga]. The Secret Doctrine Concordance to the
Four Copyright Editions. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1940. 47 pp.
Adjusts pagination for four editions of the S.D.—1st and 2nd of
[8 8 8 , 3rd rev. ed. of 1893, and the 4th Adyar ed. of 1938. Gives the
>lder page headings, along with the chapter and paragraph headings for
he original Table of Contents to create a "fairly elaborate ‘Table of
Contents’" of the the book.
862. Hamilton, Bernard. One World—At a Time. London: Hurst &
Blackett, [1928], pp. 63-83, 99-112.
Visited Blavatsky in Ostende, 1887, and was one of the original
nembers of her Blavatsky Lodge in London. Appraises her character and
contribution. "Madame did yeoman service, generally, to the West by
ntroducing to its public some Eastern points of view."
863. Hamon, Louis [Cheiro, pseud.]. "Some Modem Occultists.
Madame Blavatsky, Founder of the Theosophical Society." Ch. 14
in Mysteries and Romances of the World's Greatest Occultists.
London: Herbert Jenkins, 1935, pp. 170-80.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Claims to have visited Blavatsky at Avenue Road in London an
predicted the date of her death from her palm, where the Line of Healt
appeared to cut through the Line of Life.
864. Hanson, Virginia, ed. H.P. Blavatsky and the Secret Doctrine
Wheaton, IL: Quest Books, 1971. xv, 227 pp. 2nd rev. ed. 1988
xvii, 240 pp.
An expanded version of the Spring 1969 issue of the America
Theosophist which featured commentaries on Blavatsky’s contribution t
world thought. The 1988 reprint rearranges the articles under five subjec
headings, including ’’Some Secret Doctrine Concepts," "The Theosophies
View of Consciousness," "Science and The Secret D o c trin e and add
five new studies. Contains items 684, 836, 1038, 1151.
865. Hare, William Loftus. "More About Blavatsky." The Occu
Review (London), November 1926, pp. 314-19.
Reviews Baseden Butt’s Madame Blavatsky (742).
866. Harris, Iverson L., Sr. Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. Point Loms
CA: The Theosophical Defense League, 1921. 20 pp.
A "Refutation of recently published slanders against the foundres
and first leader of the Theosophical Movement" in Count Witte1
Memoirs (1214). "Count Witte’s narrative and comment show that the
are not even based upon his own alleged knowledge, but upon traditio
and hearsay." Harris gives instances and asks, "Did Count Witte himse
really write these defamatory statements against his cousin, Helena I
Blavatsky, or have they been interpolated in his Memoirs by another?"
867. Harris, Iverson L., Jr. Mme. Blavatsky Defended. San Diegc
Point Loma Publications, 1971. 174 pp.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 259
Correspondence by Theosophists with NBC, Time, and Walter
Vinchell, trying to redress statements circulated by the media in 1968 in
onnection with Sirhan B. Sirhan’s assassination of Sen. Robert Kennedy
hat Mme. Blavatsky was the author of a "Manual for Revolutionaries"
dvocating the assassination of a series of prominent people.
8 6 8 .--------. "About Madame Blavatsky. Facts vs. Falsehoods,
Fictions, and Biassed Surmises." The Eclectic Theosophist, July
15, 1972, pp. 2-5.
Harris takes Daniel Cohen to task for his portrayal of Blavatsky
n Masters of the Occult (766). Says Cohen slants statements unfairly
gainst Blavatsky.
869. Hartmann, Franz. "H.P. Blavatsky and her Mission."Lucifer 8:47
(July 15, 1891): 365-73. Rept. in item 695.
Extended philosophical speculation on the "real" H.P.B. "This
;reat soul, and not the dress which H.P.B. used to wear, should be the
•bject of our investigation, not for the purpose of gratifying scientific
uriosity—but for profiting by the example."
8 7 0 .--------. "Letters of H.P.B. to Dr. Hartmann." The Path (New
York), Jan.-Mar. 1896. Rept. in The Theosophical Quarterly,
Jan., Apr. 1926, pp. 212-18, 322-26.
Six letters dating from Wurzburg, Dec. 1885, to Ostende, Dec.
886, covering explanations on the Masters, the reason for Damodar’s
leparture for Tibet, and her own trials and tribulations, with notes by
lartmann.
8 7 1 .--------. "H.P. Blavatsky." Trans, by A.H. Heineman. The Word
4:2 (November 1906): 96-102. Rept. in The American Theosophist
24:5 (May 1936): 97-99.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
A translation of an article from Theosophischer Wegweiser, givin
an outline of H.P.B.’s life and travels. Hartmann testifies that he wa
"fully convinced that H.P. Blavatsky was an Initiate."
8 7 2 .--------. "Cagliostro." The Occult Review (London), January 1910
pp. 11-15. Rept. in The Theosophic Messenger 11:5 (Februar
1910): 268-70.
Asked Blavatsky for her portrait one day at Adyar, she gave hir
one of Cagliostro.
8 7 3 .------- . "Letters of Madame Blavatsky." Trans, by Gusta
Borfeldt. The Path (London), Nov., Dec. 1912, pp. 167-71
211-16.
A translation of "Errinerungen an H.P. Blavatsky" from Neu
Lotusbltiten. Extracts from various letters of Blavatsky’s are used b
Hartmann to convey her temperament. Begins: "I arrived at Adyar on th
4th December, 1883, and H.P. Blavatsky received me very kindly."
8 7 4 .--------. "Among the Adepts." Trans, by Fritz Hahn. Th
Canadian Theosophist, Aug., Sept. 1920, pp. 85-87, 92,100-10:
"A Postscript tohis ‘Reminiscences,’"translated from Lotusbluter
On Blavatsky and her Masters, phenomena.
875. Hastings, Beatrice, ed. New Universe: A Review devoted to th
Defence of Madame Blavatsky (Worthing, Sussex), Vol. 1: Jul;
Dec. 1937, Feb., Apr., July 1938, Jan. 1939.
A valuable littlejournal, between 15 and 29 pages an issue, starte
by Mrs. Hastings to back up her defence volumes. It contains
breakdown of shorter knotty points of Theosophical history, as well as
scathing review of Ephesian’s Mysterious Madame (678) and Rebecc
West’s review of the same book.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 261
876. Havens, Kate C. "Blavatsky’s Services to Mankind." Mind (New
York) 3:2 (November 1898): 97-104.
A philosophical appreciation. "She pointed out the way to attain
nental and spiritual freedom."
* Heindel, Max. See Grasshoff, Carl Louis von
877. "Helen Petrovna Blavatsky, A Reminiscence." The Word 22:3
(December 1915): 136-53.
A different approach for Theosophists, as it questions a number
>
fthe myths of H.P.B.’s early life in New York—"poor and penniless,"
tc. Says her lawyer William M. Ivins, "did not believe she was ever in
state of pecuniary distress while in America." The authorship of this
►
iece has been credited to Laura Holloway Langford, but Boris de
'irkoff believes that it is by William Mitchell, Col. Olcott’s
►rother-in-law.
878. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." The Theosophic Messenger 6:8
(May 1, 1905): 113-16.
Mme. Blavatsky’s early life and travels before the founding of the
Tieosophical Society. "The present writer has endeavored to make the
ccount given here as clear as possible, though necessarily dry and brief."
879. Hensel, Octavia. "Madame Blavatsky." The Home Journal (New
York), Dec. 26, 1894.
Personal observations on Blavatsky in London. "Her frankness was
elightful; she no more tried to dress up her mind and heart than she did
er body. She lived in mental and moral nudity." Many of the anecdotes
re similar to those used in item 1133.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
880. Hodson, Geoffrey. "H.P. Blavatsky." In Lecture Notes: Th(
School of the Wisdom. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House
1955, pp. 560-82.
Gathers examples of Mme. Blavatsky’s exhibition of phenomena
powers given in Old Diary Leaves and Sinnett’s Occult World.
881. Hollis-Billing, Mary J. "Madame H.P. Blavatsky." The Mediun
and Daybreak (London), Dec. 19, 1879, pp. 792-93.
Mme. Blavatsky had stayed at her home in Norwood, England, ei
route to India at the beginning of 1879. Describes the materialization o
a teapot by H.P.B. Mrs. Hollis-Billing had decided to test her by askin:
for "what would be most difficult to bring" at that moment; it appearei
instantly, she says.
* Holloway, Laura. See Langford, Laura Holloway
882 Holt, Elizabeth G.K. "A Reminiscence of H.P. Blavatsky i
1873." The Theosophist 53:3 (December 1931): 257-66.
Mrs. Holt, then Miss Kinsella, spent the summer of 1873 at 22
Madison Avenue in New York, a co-operative home for working wome
run by women, where Mme. Blavatsky was resident. Relates some storie
about her neighbor. "There was a sort of suppressed excitement in th
house because of her presence, an excitement wholly pleasant and y<
somewhat tinged a little with awe."
883. Howell, Basil P. "H.P. Blavatsky: A Great Occultist." 77;
Modern Mystic (London), Aug.-Nov. 1937.
Good analysis of the problems facing biographers of Mmi
Blavatsky. Says the three fundamental propositions in the Proem of h<
Secret Doctrine sum up the teachings of Theosophy.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 263
884. Hubbell, G. G. "Mme. Blavatsky." Ch. 1 in Fact and Fancy in
Spiritualism, Theosophy, and Psychical Research. Cincinnati: The
Robert Clarke Co., 1901, pp. 9-60.
Mainly fancy. Believes Blavatsky did it because of "a desire to
ixcite wonder and attract attention to herself." But if attention was the
notive there are more immediate and direct ways than sitting and writing
housand page books for ten to twelve hours a day.
885. Hiibbe-Schleiden, Wilhelm. "Extracts from a Letter received by
the Countess Wachtmeister from Dr. Hubbe-Schleiden." Appendix
1,6, in Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine
(item 1195), 1893, pp. 110-16. 1976, 1989, pp. 97-102.
Dr. Hiibbe-Schleiden writes of his experiences with Blavatsky and
ler phenomena at Wurzburg in Oct. 1885 and Jan. 1886, when she was
vorking on The Secret Doctrine. "I do not estimate the value of H.P.B.
‘
rom the phenomena she produced (and I saw many of them) but from
ler teachings, and these I consider to be of the greatest importance,
ilmost inestimable."
886. Hume, Hugo. "Theosophy—The Wisdom Religion, or the Religion
of Reincarnation." Ch. 5 in The Superior American Religions. Los
Angeles: The Libertarian Publishing Co., 1928, pp. 136-56.
A denunciation of Blavatsky from Solovyov, Coues, the
Coulombs.
887. Humphreys, Christmas. "H.P. Blavatsky—Her Life and Work."
In The Field of Theosophy. London: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1966, pp. 5-23.
Standard Theosophical biography of Blavatsky.
264 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
8 8 8 .--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." In Dark Dimensions. /
Celebration of the Occult, ed. by Colin Wilson. New York
Everest House, 1977, pp. 59-75.
Humphreys, who joined the Theosophical Society in 1920, give
the basic facts of Blavatsky’s life, enlivened by his contact with he
personal pupils. In summing up her contribution he says, "She arouse<
new interest in comparative religion. She taught in Karma and rebirth ;
two fold doctrine which many, with fading faith in the Christian God
found an excellent substitute, more reasonable and acceptable to th<
average Western mind. These basic principles, which run through all he
writing, have percolated deeply into Western thought, though not, it ma;
be, under the name Theosophy."
889. Hutch, Richard A. "Helena Blavatsky Unveiled." Journal c
Religious History (Sydney, Australia) 11:2 (December 1980)
320-41.
Hutch’s thesis is that "Blavatsky, while working within th
Theosophical Society, radical though her involvement seemed, wa
expressing less than conscious links with a Russian past within th
historical moment of the American present, 1873-78." Pages upon page
are spent on patterns of belief in 19th century Russian religion as
confirmation of this influence, but if his interpretation of data or event
in her life is any indication of the reliability of his analysis, he i
woefully off.
890. Hyatt, Thaddeus P., comp. A CheckList ofSome ofthe Books an
Authors Quoted or Referred to in the Two Volumes of nThe Seen
Doctrine" by H.P Blavatsky. Part I. Stamford, Conn: The Authoi
1940. x, 53 pp.
A list of authors classified by their subject matter, an alphabetic!
listing of books quoted or referred to by title, and an overall authc
index. Part 2, planned but never issued, was to continue listing authoi
and books not yet identified, and also authors and works quoted c
referred to in Isis Unveiled and not mentioned in Part I.
265
891. "I Believe in Madame Blavatsky." The Pall Mall Gazette, July 13,
1891, pp. 1-2. Rept. Bombay: Blavatsky Lodge of the T.S., n.d.
10 pp.
Annie Besant interviewed on Hodgson’sReport, the Coulombs, the
Function of the Masters, and the nature of Blavatsky’s phenomena,
touches for Blavatsky’s character calling her "the best, the purest, the
ruest, the highest, the most devoted and self-sacrificing human soul that
[have ever known or ever conceived."
* Imperator. See Lewis, A. Spencer
892. Jagannathiah, R. "The Great Teacher H.P.B. As I Saw Her." The
Adyar Bulletin 2:5 (May 15, 1909): 156-59. Rept. in The
Theosophic Messenger 12:1 (October 1910): 789-90. Rept. in The
Canandian Theosophist 64:2 (May-June 1983): 26-27.
Jagannathiah, who wrote under the pen-names of "R.J." and
'Veritas" for the Madras freethought journal The Philosophic Inquirer,
dsited Blavatsky soon after her arrival in Adyar at the end of Dec. 1882.
ie questioned her for three days on problems he had come to regard as
l member of the National Secular Society of England as insoluble. "To
ny great astonishmemt she took up question after question, and answered
>ach most elaborately and satisfactorily.... In three days she shattered my
even years knowledge of atheistic theories."
893. Jaquess, Annie M. "H.P.B. and Annie Besant." The Theosophic
Messenger (Chicago) 10:12 (September 1909): 566.
Visited H.P.B. in London in the fall of 1889 and was told in
onversation that Annie Besant would fill Blavatsky’s place.
894. Jastrow, Joseph. "Marvellous Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 10 in Wish
and Wisdom: Episodes in the Vagaries of Belief, New York: D.
Appleton Century Co., 1935, pp. 109-22. Rept as Error and
266 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
Eccentricity in Human Belief\ New York: Dover Publications
1962.
"Saint or sinner we shall never see her like again. In the face o
a rationalistic science, she staged a Paracelsian revival, grafting oi
Oriental occultism upon Occidental minds."
* Jelihovsky, Vera. See Zhelihovsky, Vera
895. Jinarajadasa, C. "The Writing of The Secret Doctrine." Letter t<
the Editor, The Messenger (Chicago), August 1923, p. 43.
Sends extract from a letter by Bertram Keightley, Dec. 6, 1922
upholding Besant’s contribution to the editing of the third edition of T
h<
Secret Doctrine.
8 9 6 .--------. "Dr. Besant and Mutilation of The Secret Doctrine." T
h<
Messenger (Chicago) 13:8 (January 1926): 166-67.
Defends Besant against charges of mutilating the third edition o
The Secret Doctrine. Quotes letters from A. Keightley to Bertran
Keightley, Oct. 29, 1891, G.R.S. Mead to B.K., Nov. 13, 27, Dec. 4
1891, stating that the revision was justified.
8 9 7 .------- . "Two Letters of H.P.B." The Theosophist 48:5 (Februar
1927): 521-26.
One to C.W. Leadbeater, from Elberfeld, Germany, June 26
1886, on the failure of the Indian chela Babaji, known as Darbhagii
Nath, and another to S. Whitman, London, Feb. 1888.
------- . "H.P.B. and the E.S.T." The Theosophist 50:1 (Octobe
1928): 61-66.
898.
267
Reproduces the original procedure for opening meetings of
Blavatsky’s Esoteric School, and a facsimile of a charter for one of the
lodges.
8 9 9 .--------. "The Personality of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist
(Adyar), Sept. 1930, pp. 334-56; (Hollywood), Sept. 1930, pp.
780-91. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1930. 25
pp. Rept. in The Messenger (Chicago) 19:5 (May 1931): 385-87,
404, 406.
The Blavatsky Lecture for 1930, delivered at the Convention of
the T.S. in England, July 5, 1930. Jinarajadasa says that "it is impossible
to understand H.P.B. unless one enters into her atmosphere, where the
Masters are living persons—speaking, listening, moving, ordering—not
mere ideal concepts."
9 0 0 .--------. "Esoteric Teachings of H.P.B." The Theosophist (Adyar),
Jan.-July 1931, Sept. 1931-July 1932.
H.P.B.’s Inner Group teachings transcribed by C.J. from "a
special minute book of the Group" recorded by member Isabel
Cooper-Oakley. Covers meetings from Sept. 10, 1890 to April 15, 1891.
9 0 1 .--------, acting-editor. "H.P.B. Centenary Number." The
Theosophist 52:11 (August 1931): 553-692.
A hundred and forty pages made up of unpublished letters from
H.P.B. to Olcott and others, manuscripts, including her statement on the
Coulomb charges, "My Justification," printed here for the first time,
dong with numerous facsimiles and illustrations.
9 0 2 .--------. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist 53:1
(October 1931): 55.
268 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Brief address at Adyar, Aug. 12, 1931, describing his visit to
Mme. Blavatsky at the age of fourteen with C.W. Leadbeater soon aftei
their arrival in London in Dec. 1889. "I have only the vaguest impression
of her—only that of a large lady in a large chair."
9 0 3 .--------, ed. "Letters of H.P.B. to Annie Besant." The Theosophist,
Jan.-June 1932.
Thirteen letters to Besant from 1889 to 1890/91 published in six
installments of the magazine. Begins: "I too have long been wishing tc
make your acquaintance, as there is nothing in the world that I admire
more than pluck and the rare courage to come out and state one’s
opinions boldly in the face of all the world—including Mrs. Grundy/
Series ends with Blavatsky addressing her as "My darling Penelope/
signed "Your female Ulysses."
9 0 4 .--------, ed. "The Letters of H.P. Blavatsky to Francesca
Arundale." The Theosophist 53:10 (July 1932): 358-64.
Four letters from Blavatsky, 1884/85, to Miss Arundale ir
London. Letter of Aug. 29, 1885, Wurzburg, complains of Olcott’s
treatment of her, and her present state of existence in exile.
9 0 5 .--------. "More About Vol. Ill S.D." Letter to the Editor, Tht
Canadian Theosophist, March 15, 1936, pp. 19-20.
Quotes Bertram Keightley’s "Reminiscences" (item 947) upholding
the validity of the material published in the third volume of The Secret
Doctrine, as an integral part of the work. Points out that similar materia
is found in Blavatsky’s original draft.
9 0 6 .------- . "H.P.B.’s Precipitated Teapot." The Theosophist 61:13
(September 1940): 487-91. Rept. in The American Theosophist
29:1 (January 1941): 1-2, 14.
269
Recovery of a china teapot produced phenomenally by Blavatsky
in London in 1879. Jinarajadasa claims it is the original, and gives a
photograph.
9 0 7 .--------. "Some Incidents in the Life of H.P.B." The Theosophist,
June-Nov. 1946.
The June issue tells of the fate of the Indian chela, Babaji, who
accompanied H.P.B. to Europe in 1885. The rest of the series prints
extracts from Sinnett’s "Autobiography" with notes by C.J., starting with
the invitation to H.P.B. to come up to Allahabad in Dec. 1879 and
continuing until Sinnett’s subsequent break with her in 1889 in London.
9 0 8 .--------. "H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist 71:9 (June 1950):
151-60. Rept. in The American Theosophist 38:7 (July 1950): 125-
27, 129-30.
Jinarajadasa recalls visiting Blavatsky in London in 1889, and
attending her cremation in 1891. Tries to explain her habits, like
smoking, due to occult causes.
9 0 9 .--------, ed.H.P.B. Speaks. Vol. I. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1950, 1986. viii, 248 pp.
Collects material relating to H.P.B.’s stay in America during the \
1870s. Her letters to Olcott, Gen. Lippitt, her aunt, N.A. Fadeyev, plus \
dippings and annotations from Blavatsky’s press Scrapbooks for the
period, and her "diary" for 1878. About half of the items were published
in The Theosophist on and off from Mar. 1922 to Apr. 1925 under the
:itle of "The Early History of the T.S." (119).
9 1 0 .--------, ed. H.P.BSpeaks. Vol. 2. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1951, 1986. xvi, 181 pp.
Made up of H.P.B.’s Russian letters to Prince Dondoukov-
Corsakov from Simla, 1881, to Paris, 1884, and a few stray letters to
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
Gen. Lippitt from 1875. A photographic reproduction of H.P.B.’i
Masonic diploma granted by John Yarker in 1877 faces the titlepage. Th<
authenticity of the Russian letters in this volume has been questioned b]
Jean Overton Fuller in Appendix I to item 819.
9 1 1 .--------, ed. "The Real H.P.B. A Letter of T. Subba Row." Thi
Theosophist 73:4 (January 1952): 234-41.
Extracts from a letter from T. Subba Row, July 1, 1885 (misdate<
1883), rationalizing some of Blavatsky’s peculiarities—her temper, etc.
says that her body is inhabited by a Hindu chela.
9 1 2 .--------. "H.P.B.’s Genealogical Tree." The Theosophist 73:L
(September 1952): 369-78.
Genealogical tree of H.P.B., beginning with her maternal grea
grandfather, and showing relations with cousins, etc., presented to C.J
by the Vicomtesse d’Hotman de Villiers in Paris, 1934, and translate*
here by Katherine Beechey. Has year by year chronology for 1842 fc
1890, and brief items about her immediate family.
913. Johnson, Harman. "An Amazing Career: Madame Blavatsky an<
Spiritualism. Her Adventures in India." The Two World
tyv (Manchester, Eng.), Dec. 28, 1934, Jan. 4, 1935, p. 847, pp
2-3.
Johnson claims she was a Spiritualist who made an "about-face.
Her adventures in India given in the Jan. 4th issue are summed up by th
Coulombs and the Kiddle letter. See Beatrice Hastings’ letter to the editc
replying in the issue of Jan. 11, 1935, p. 28, with Johnson’s comments
914. Johnson, Paul. Madame Blavatsky: The *Veiled Years.' London
Theosophical History Centre, 1987. 11 pp.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 211
Advocates the theory that "early and continuing Sufi contacts
determined her [Blavatsky’s] world view as well as her teaching
methods." Parallels her career with G.I. Gurdjieffs and his Sufi teachers.
915. Johnston, Charles. "A Memory of Madame Blavatsky." Lucifer
8:46 (June 15, 1891): 287-89. Rept. in item 695.
"She was a personality of such magnitude as to divide the world
into her adherents and her opponents, leaving none indifferent between;
the test of the force of her nature is as much the fierce animosity of her
snemies as the loving devotion of her friends."
9 1 6 .--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." The Theosophical Forum
(New York), April-July 1900. Rept. in The Theosophical
Quarterly (New York), April, July 1938, pp. 157-62, 246-52.
Rept. in B:CW 8, pp. 392-409.
Descriptive narrative based on Johnston’s visit to Blavatsky in
London, 1887, conveying their conversation on her views of the Society
for Psychical Research Report, the Masters, reincarnation, the British in
[ndia, and the danger of black magic inherent in hypnotic practices.
9 1 7 .--------. "H.P.B." The Theosophical Quarterly 29:1 (July 1931):
12-13.
Meeting Blavatsky in 1887 while he was in London for the Indian
Civil Service Examinations and later in 1888 before he left for India.
9 1 8 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky’s Forebears." The Theosophical
Quarterly 30:1 (July 1932): 12-16.
On H.P.B.’s grandmother, the Princess Dolgorukov (1789-1860),
ind mother, Helena Andreyevna Fadeyev von Hahn (1814-42), who
vrote under the nom de plume "Zenaida R-va."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
919. Johnston, Vera. "A Note from Madame Vera Johnston, niece o
H.P.B." In Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky and The Secre
Doctrine (item 1195), 1893, pp. 107-9; 1976, 1989, pp. 94-96.
Vera had provided the correction of a mathematical equation in he
aunt’s manuscript of The Secret Doctrine. H.P.B. told her, "You are ver
green if you think that I actually know and understand all the things
write." Accompanied H.P.B. to Ostend from Elberfeld in 1886, confirm
that she had no books to draw her quotations from.
9 2 0 .--------, trans., and William Q. Judge. "Letters of H.P
Blavatsky." The Path (New York), Dec. 1894, Jan.-Dec. 1895.
Extracts from H.P.B.’s Russian correspondence to her relatives
mainly to her aunt Nadyezhda A. Fadeyev (1829-1919), and her siste
Vera Zhelihovsky (1835-1896), dating from New York 1874 to Londoi
1890, with commentary and explanations.
9 2 1 .--------, trans. "Two Letters." The Theosophical Forum (Ne\
York) 9:8 (December 1903): 142-49.
Two letters to Vera Zhelihovsky Johnston, one from her aunl
Mme. Blavatsky in 1878, written to her when she was fourteen, and th
other from her brother Rostislav, written to her in India in 1889.
9 2 2 .--------, trans. "Some Letters of H.P.B." The Theosophicc
Quarterly, July, Oct. 1907, Jan. 1908, pp. 11-15, 126-35,239-4f
Russian letters of Blavatsky to her relatives from New York, Jun
to Dec. 1877, including retranslations of some published in Mrs
Johnston’s series in the Path (item 920).
923. Jones, William Angus. Blavatsky andHoerbiger: A Reconciliatior
London: Markham House Press, 1950. 15 pp.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 273
Tries to correlate Blavatsky’s theories on cosmogenesis with those
)f Austrian scientist Hans Hoerbiger (1860-1931), who postulated a
'cosmic Ice Theory" for the origin of the Universe. But Blavatsky’s "cold
ire" is not material gas.
924. Jordan, Kent. "Sirhan’s Psychic Mentor." Ch. 2 in The Psychic
Reader, ed. by Martin Ebon. Cleveland: The World Publ. Co.,
1969, pp. 11-26.
A great deal of the usual biographical stuff about Blavatsky,
ending abruptly after the publication of The Secret Doctrine, but nothing
m the ideas in the book or how it relates to Sirhan B. Sirhan, the
tssassin of Sen. R. Kennedy, and his request for it in his Los Angeles
irison cell in 1968.
925. Judge, William Quan. "H.P.B. A Lion-Hearted Colleague
Passes." The Path (New York) 6:3 (June 1891): 65-68. Rept. in
items 78, 743, 1179.
"Her aim was to elevate the race. Her method was to deal with the
nind of the century as she found it, by trying to lead it step by step; to
eek out and educate a few who, appreciating the majesty of the Sacred
Science and devoted to ‘the great orphan Humanity,’ would carry on her
vork with zeal and wisdom; to found a Society whose efforts—however
mall itself might be—would inject into the thought of the day the ideas,
he doctrines, the nomenclature of the Wisdom Religion."
9 2 6 .--------. "Yours till Death and After, H.P.B." Lucifer 8:46 (June
15, 1891): 290-92. Rept. in items 79, 695, 743, 1179.
Judge recalls his relationship with Blavatsky since 1875. Says she
□Id him in London in 1888, "We are not working merely that people
nay call themselves Theosophists but that the doctrines we cherish may
ffect and leaven the whole mind of this century."
274 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
9 2 7 .------- . "H.P.B. at Enghien." Lucifer 8:47 (July 15, 1891)
359-61. Rept. in items 79, 695, 743.
Blavatsky’s phenomena at the chateau of the Count and Countes;
d’Adhemar at Enghien, France, where she was invited during the spring
of 1884, along with Judge, Mohini Chatteiji, and Bertram Keightley.
9 2 8 .--------. "The House Where H.P.B. Worked and Died." The Pat)
6:4 (July 1891): 131-34. Rept. in items 78, 743.
Description of 19 Avenue Road, London, and H.P.B.’s room
there.
9 2 9 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky in India. A Reply to Moncure D
Conway." The Arena 5:28 (March 1892): 472-80. Rept. in item
80, 743.
Disputes Conway’s observations at Adyar printed in item 772
"His description of the ‘shrine,’ on page 582, is so far removed fror
fact that I am constrained to doubt the accuracy even of his recollectio
of what was said to him by Madame Blavatsky."
9 3 0 .--------. "Habitations of H.P.B." The Path, May, June 1892, No\
1893, pp. 36-39, 71-75, 237-39. Rept. in item 78, 743.
1, 17 Lansdowne Road, London, with photographs. 2,
Madras, India, with sketches by Judge as it looked in 1884. 3, 302 Wes
47 Street, New York, with a sketch of the building.
9 3 1 .--------. "The Esoteric She." The Sun (New York), September 26
1892, p. 5. Rept. with Annie Besant’s "The Theosophical Societ
and H.P.B." Surat, India: Surat Theosophical Society, n.d. 20 pp
Rept. as H.P. Blavatsky. Bombay: Theosophy Co., 1931. v, 1
pp. Rept. in items 80, 743, 1179.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 275
Outline of Blavatsky’s life and work for humanity, published by
he Sun as an amende honorable for printing Coues article on her in its
luly 20, 1890 issue.
9 3 2 .--------. "The Ashes of H.P.B." The Path 7:10 (January 1893):
306-8. Rept. in item 79.
Illustration of the urn designed by R. Machell and executed by the
Swedish artist Herr Bengtsson for the London portion of H.P.B.’s ashes.
\fter the cremation. Col. Olcott divided her ashes into three portions,
me part going to New York with Judge, Olcott taking his to Adyar,
vhile the rest stayed in London. The bronze urn described as "just about
wo feet high, two feet wide, and two deep," is now at the headquarters
>f the Society at Adyar. Olcott deposited the ashes he took to Adyar
mder the statue of H.P.B. erected in the headquarters hall in 1899.
9 3 3 .--------. "A Reminiscence." The Path, Feb., Mar. 1893, pp.
343-44, 387. Rept. in item 78.
Traces the origin of the seal of the Theosophical Society from a
imilar seal made for Mme. Blavatsky with her initials in 1875.
9 3 4 .--------. "About the Secret Doctrine." Appendix 1, 3, in
Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (item
1195), 1893, pp. 101-4; 1976, 1989, pp. 88-91. Rept. in item
743.
Quotes excerpt from Blavatsky begging him to come and help her
/rite The Secret Doctrine in 1886, but says he was too occupied. Adds
lore phenomena connected with the book during his stay in Paris and
mghien in 1884.
--------. "‘Blavatskianism’ In and Out of Season." Lucifer 13:76
(December 15, 1893): 303-8. Rept. in item 79.
935.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur)
This is Judge’s influential decree that Blavatsky needs no defence
which set the Theosophical standard for dealing with attacks on her fo
almost a century.
9 3 6 .------- . "Conversations on Occultism with H.P.B." The Path 9:
(April 1894): 17-21. Rept. in item 743.
Recalls conversations with Blavatsky from the 1870s and 1880s oi
occultism.
9 3 7 .--------. "H.P.B. Was Not Deserted by the Masters." Theosoph
(New York) 11:1 (April 1896): 14-18. Rept. in items 78, 743.
"Many things were said about H.P.B. in her lifetime by those wh<
tried to understand her, some of them silly and some of them positivel
pernicious. The most pernicious was that made by Mr. A.P. Sinnett i]
London in the lifetime of H.P.B., and before the writing of The Secre
Doctrine, that she was deserted by the Masters and was the prey o
elementals and elemental forces." Denounces those who think this way
938. Kamensky, Anna. "H.P.B. as Journalist." The Theosophist 54:1
(August 1933): 520-21.
Abbreviated consideration of the contents of H.P.B.’s writings fc
the Russian papers from New York, 1877/78.
939. Keightley, Archibald. "In Memoriam." Lucifer 8:47 (July If
1891): 362-64. Rept. in item 695.
Dr. Keightley had read Sinnett’s Occult World while a student i
Cambridge. He was present at the London Lodge meeting of April 1
1884, where Mme. Blavatsky made her unexpected appearance, and sa\
her again at the Arundales and later with the Cooper-Oakley’s before the
left for India in Nov. 1884. In 1887 he made the trip to Ostende to invit
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 211
LP.B. to London. Recalls the crossing to England and the revival of
fheosophical work in London caused by her presence there.
9 4 0 .--------. "From Ostende to London." The Path (New York) 7:8
(November 1892): 245-48. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist
63:4 (Sept.-Oct. 1982): 81-82.
The crossing from Ostende to Dover and then to London, which
Vrch and his uncle Bertram undertook with H.P.B. May 1, 1887, and
heir apprehension caused by the fact that Mme. Blavatsky "was almost
crippled with rheumatism and could hardly walk." But "the day after her
irrival she was at work on The Secret Doctrine at 7 a.m."
9 4 1 .--------. "Dr. Archibald Keightley’s Account of the Writing of The
Secret Doctrine." Appendix 1, 2, in Reminiscences of H.P.
Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (item 1195), 1893, pp. 96-100;
1976, 1989, pp. 83-87.
While at Ostende at the beginning of 1887 he read part of the
nanuscript of The Secret Doctrine, then "in detached sections." "What
truck me most in the part I was able to read during my short stay was
he enormous number of quotations from various authors. I knew that
here was no library to consult and I could see that H.P.B.’s own books
lid not amount to thirty in all, of which several were dictionaries and
everal works counted two or more volumes."
9 4 2 .--------. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophical
Quarterly (New York) 8:2 (October 1910): 109-22. Rept. in
Theosophia (Los Angeles) 16:1 (Spring 1959): 13-25.
Narrates his association with Mme. Blavatsky from her dramatic
ntrance at the London Lodge meeting in Apr. 1884, when she was
elieved to be in Paris, the move from Ostende to London, the
evelopment of the Blavatsky Lodge that formed around her, and day to
ay life with Blavatsky at 17 Lansdowne Rd.
278 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
943. Keightley, Bertram. "Madame Blavatsky’s Work in the West.'
The Theosophist 12:3 (December 1890): 145-50.
H.P.B.’s presence in the West, through her "example, th<
guidance, the help, the counsel, the inspiration," has revitalized th*
movement in England and America. India should take note.
9 4 4 .------- . "Theosophy in the West." The Theosophist 12:10 (Jul;j
1891): 584-91.
Lecture delivered at the Dec. 1890 T.S. Convention, Adyar
Recites his meeting with Blavatsky in 1884, his work as Sec. of th<
London Lodge, 1885-86, and 1887, editing The Secret Doctrine ii
London, Mrs. Besant’s affiliation.
9 4 5 .------- . "What H.P.B. did for me." Lucifer 8:48 (August 15
1891): 452-55. Rept. in item 695.
"She would take the clothes off her back, the bread from he
mouth, to help her worst, her most malicious foe in distress or suffering
Had the Coulombs ever turned up in London between 1887 and 1891 ii
distress and misery, she would have taken them in, clothed and fe<
them."
9 4 6 .------- . "Mr. Bertram Keightley’s Account of the Writing of Th
Secret Doctrine." Appendix 1, 1, in Reminiscences of H.F
Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (item 1195), 1893, pp. 89-9f
1976, 1989, 77-82.
It was Bertram Keightley who suggested the division of th
manuscript of The Secret Doctrine as it came to be published, with eac
volume organized into sections containing 1, the Stanzas and thei
commentaries, 2, Symbolism, 3, Science. To accentuate the Stanzas, eac
sloka was cut out from the typed copy and pasted at the head of a she*
of paper, to which were pinned all the questions they could devise fc
Mme. Blavatsky to write a commentary on.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 279
9 4 7 .--------. "Reminiscences of H.P.B." The Theosophist 52:12
(September 1931): 704-25. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1931. 37 pp.
Written for the H.P.B. Centenary Celebration at Adyar, August
[1 and 12, 1931, these reminiscences recall Bertram Keightley’s joining
he London Lodge of the Theosophical Society in 1884, as "a young man
ust down from Cambridge"; the Theosophical notables he came in
contact with; his part in convincing Mme. Blavatsky to move to London
rom Ostende, Belgium; editing The Secret Doctrine with his nephew
Archibald Keightley (who was actually a year older than he); and life at
he Theosophical household at 17 Lansdowne Rd. In 1890 Mme.
llavatsky sent him to India, and he became the first General Secretary of
he newly formed Indian Section of the Society.
948. Keightley, Julia [J. Campbell Ver Planck]. "Madame Blavatsky at
a Distance." Lucifer 8:47 (July 15, 1891): 382-85. Rept. in item
695.
"Although in the flesh she remained unknown to me, she alone of
ill the world’s Leaders gave me Truth, taught me how to find it, and to
lold it ‘against the world.’ The soul that can work such a miracle at a
listance is no minor ray; it is one of the great Solar Centres that die not,
>ven though for a time we miscall it Helena Blavatsky."
9 4 9 .--------, comp. "She Being Dead Yet Speaketh." The Path (New
York), June-Aug. 1892.
Excerpts from Blavatsky’s letters to American Theosophists,
ncluding Judge and Dr. Buck, introduced and read by Mrs. Keightley at
he first May 8th "White Lotus Day" observance in New York.
9 5 0 .--------. "A Family of Mystics." The Irish Theosophist 3:7 (April !
1895): 116-19. \
280 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
On the mystical streak in Blavatsky’s family. Quotes letters fron
Vera Zhelihovsky and her daughter, Vera Johnston.
951. Kell, Wane. "Notices and Reviews of The Secret Doctrine." Thi
Eclectic Theosophisty July-Aug.- Nov.-Dee. 1988.
Reprints extracts of reviews of The Secret Doctrine taken mainl]
from those republished in The Theosophist for 1889.
952. Kelly, John, ed. The Collected Letters of W.B. Yeats. Vol. I
1865-1895. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1986.
Letters to John O’Leary, Katharine Tynan, Ernest Rhys am
others, 1888-89, communicate Blavatsky’s activities in London. "I hav<
no theories about her," Yeats wrote John O’Leary, May 7, 1889. "Sh<
is simply a note of interrogation."
953. Khandalavala, N. D. "H.P. Blavatsky and Her Masters." Thi
Theosophist 20:1 (October 1898): 19-26. Rept. as "Some Letter
of H.P.B." The Theosophist, July, Aug. 1926, pp. 457-62
592-96.
Lively extracts from Blavatsky’s letters of Oct. 1880, Aug. 1882
Mar. 1885, May and Oct. 1886, Jan. and July 1888, Nov. 1889, an<
Apr. 1890, to Khan Bahadur Khandalavala of Poona, whojoined the T.S
Nov. 25, 1879.
9 5 4 .------- . "Madame H.P. Blavatsky as I Knew Her." Thi
Theosophist, June, July 1929, pp. 213-22, 309-18.
Judge Khandalavala, an early Indian member, recalls hi
experiences with Blavatsky and Theosophy in India during the 1880s
Good period piece, more frank than most Theosophical reminiscences
with lots of gossip about the role of the Society and its prominen
members. Reprints extracts from H.P.B.’s letters to him.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 281
955. Kiddle, Henry. "Another Remarkable Theosophical Puzzle."
Letter to the Editor, Light (London), Nov. 15, 1884, pp. 482-83.
Mme. Blavatsky in her Aug. 9th letter to Arthur Lillie in Light
item 707), says she was never a Spiritualist, but Kiddle quotes her letter
n the N.Y. Daily Graphic of Oct. 30, 1874, where she styles herself "a
Spiritualist of many years’ standing."
956. Kingsland, William. "What She Taught Us." Lucifer 8:47 (July
15, 1891): 385-87. Rept. in item 695.
"There were those who were attracted to her by the magnetism of
ler personal influence, by her extraordinary intellect, by her
onversational powers, and even by her militant unconventionality. But
was not one of these. It was her message that attracted me; it was as a
eacher that I learnt to know and love her." Says she showed "the purpose
>flife," that she taught Theosophy as "a living power in our lives," and
hat the keynote of her teachings and her life was "self-sacrifice."
9 5 7 .------- . The Influence ofH. P. Blavatsky’
s Teachings upon Western
Thought. London: The Blavatsky Association, 1926. 10 pp. Rept.
in the Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association 3, March 1927,
pp. 4-14.
Address delivered at the third Annual Meeting of the Blavatsky
Association, London, Nov. 26, 1926. Cites the doctrines of karma and
eincamation as her main contribution. "What did the Western world
now of Reincarnation and Karma, notwithstanding the age-long Eastern
caching of these doctrines, before H.P.B. popularised them?"
9 5 8 .--------. The Real H.P. Blavatsky. London: John M. Watkins,
1928. 322 pp. Rept. London: Theosophical Publishing House,
1985.
A philosophical biography based on the belief that "She explained
Tieosophy, and Theosophy explains her. Theosophy explains not merely
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
the motive and incentive of her life-work and mission, but it explains als<
much in her character, and many incidents in her life which, without;
knowledge of its teachings, are not merely inexplicable, but are liable t<
harsh criticism andjudgement on the part of those who can see no deepe
than the surface of things." Includes item 1864.
959. Kislingbury, Emily. "At New York and Wurzburg." Lucifer 8:4<
(June 15, 1891): 275-77. Rept. in item 695.
Miss Kislingbury spent five weeks with Blavatsky in New York h
1877, while on a holiday in America from England. Helped correct th<
proof sheets of Isis Unveiled, and says phenomena were commonplace
Drifted away from Theosophy and Spiritualism, but after the S.P.R
issued the report condeming Blavatsky’s phenomena at the end of 1885
"I determined to go to H.P.B., if anywhere within reach, if only as ;
silent protest against the action of those most unfair and misguide
gentlemen, who had endorsed so foul a slander."
960. Knoche, Grace Frances. "The Corresponding Secretary." Th
Theosophical Forum (Covina, CA) 25:11 (November 1947)
659-65.
Proposes that the function of Blavatsky’s office of Corresponds
Secretary, defined by the original by-laws, ch. 11, sec. 1, as "It shall b
the duty of the corresponding secretary to conduct the genera
correspondence of the society with individuals and associate bodies,
represented the "legal avenue of 'spiritual authority’ within the Society.
9 6 1 .--------. "H.P.B. and the Esoteric Section." The Theosophica
Forum (Covina, CA) 25:12 (December 1947): 706-17.
Outlines the developments that led to the foundation of Blavatsky’
Esoteric School.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 283
9 6 2 .--------, ed. Report of Proceedings of the Secret Doctrine
Centenary, Pasadena, Calif, Oct. 29-30, 1988. Pasadena: The
Theosophical Society, 1989. iii, 121 pp.
Contains item 1188.
9 6 3 .--------. "H.P.B.—Friend of All.” The Theosophist 112:8 (May
1991): 298-304.
Overview of Blavatsky’s life by a leading Theosophist.
964. Kunz, Fritz. "Miscellaneous Flapdoodle.” The Adyar Bulletin,
July, Sept, Nov. 1919, Feb. 1920.
Fritz Kunz rediscovered H.P.B.’s Scrapbooks at Adyar, "in every
tage of decay." Contributes an evaluation of their contents.
965. L. S. "Madame Blavatsky." The Theosophical Quarterly (New
York): 22:2 (October 1924): 126-33.
Drawn from Mrs. Campbell Praed’s portrayal of Mme. Blavatsky
s Madame Tamvaco in her 1886 novel Affinities.
966. Ladbrook-Sloan, Jef. "Buddhist and other Major Influences on the
Life of H.P.B." Theosophy in Australia 55:2 (June 1991): 28-31.
Kalmuck lamas, the library of her great-grandfather Prince Paul
>olgorukov, Albert Rawson, Copt magician Paolos Metamon, Mazzini
id Garibaldi, Mikhail Katkov, are speculated upon.
967. La Due, Francia A. "A Remarkable Mask." The American
Theosophist 14:8 (May 1913): 627-28 + photo facing p. 619.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Photograph of a mask of H.P.B. in profile received by Miss L
Due in New York, Nov. 1911, supposed to be a copy from the face c
a bust executed by a Swedish sculptress shortly before H.P.B.’s death.
968. Laheri, Rai B.K. “The Opinion of a Hindu about H.P.B."Lucife
8:46 (June 15, 1891): 309-11. Rept. in item 695.
"She has succeeded in getting the key of the true Hindu an
therefore of the subsequent Buddhist Secret Philosophy, there can be n
question, no doubt and no hesitation about it....Is it not sufficient for th
Westerns to know that a proud Brahmin, who knows not how to bend hi
body before any mortal being in this world, except his superiors i
relation or religion, joins his hands like a submissive child before th
white Yogini of the West?"
969. Lane-Fox, St. George. "Blavatskiana. An Appreciation by M
Lane Fox." Borderland (London) 2:8 (April 1895): 177-78. Rep
in item 1884.
St. George Lane-Fox, who arrived in Bombay early in 1884, an
who described himself at the time as an "ardent Theosophist," was mad
a member of the Adyar Board of Control to handle the Society’s affaii
during Olcott’s absence in Europe. Says Mme. Blavatsky told him befoi
leaving, "Madame Coulomb is no true friend of the Cause; get rid of hi
as soon as you can." Reveals the difficulties caused trying to carry th
out. Quotes Anna Kingsford on Blavatsky: "We must not condemn he
she is engaged upon a great work, and already she has been an immens
service to mankind; her life may be far from perfect, but she is honest
seeking the way, and the way must be found before the life can be lived
970. Langford, Laura Holloway. "The Theosophists." TheLeader, Oc
14, 1888, p. 14. Rept. as "Hodgson’s Karmic Destiny." 77
Canadian Theosophist 21:6 (Aug. 15, 1940): 179-80. Rept. i
Sven Eek’s Damodar (item 74), pp. 625-26.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 285
Reports of being in Cambridge, England, at the time of H.P.B.’s
/isit there in 1884. Blavatsky told her after meeting various members of
he S.P.R., "Hodgson will be the man the S.P.R. will select to go to
ndia." The version in the Canadian Theosophist and item 74 is credited
o the Omaha Bee of Oct. 13, 1888, but could not be traced in that issue.
9 7 1 .--------. "Blavatsky’s Mesmerism." Current Literature (New York)
1:9 (March 1889): 243-44.
Examples of Blavatsky’s phenomena witnessed by Mrs. Langford,
hen Mrs. Holloway, in France in 1884.
9 7 2 .--------[An American newspaper writer]. "Madame Blavatsky."
The Word (New York) 14:5 (February 1912): 262-69.
Personal observations of Mme. Blavatsky during her Paris and
.ondon sojourn of 1884. Stresses her smoking, temper—"she was a
olcano in petticoats"—looks, and clothes—"her invariable costume was
loose, flowing, black one-piece garment." Says that her European visit
was to see if the Western mind was prepared to learn the Eastern
caching."
973. Lazenby, Charles. "Isis Unveiled." The Path (Hale, Eng.) 1:1
(July 1910): 9. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist 69:2 (May-
June 1988): 27.
Lazenby in an interview asked Prof. Hiram Corson whom he
ansidered the most notable of the great figures of literature he had come
l contact with during the 19th century. Corson named Mme. Blavatsky,
is house guest in 1875, and after her, Walt Whitman.
974. Leadbeater, Charles Webster. "H.P Blavatsky." The Theosophist
30:5 (February 1909): 479-81. Rept. as "Reminiscences of
H.P.B." The Theosophic Messenger 10:9 (June 1909): 381-82.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Similar to his Preface for Herbert Whyte’s 1909 H.P. Blavatsky
an Outline of her Life (item 1206), Leadbeater tells of "the very fin
news that I ever heard of our great Founder" from a friend who was o
board the steamer that took H.P.B. and Olcott from Bombay to Colomb
in 1879.
9 7 5 .--------. "H.P. Blavatsky." Theosophy in Australia, Sept. 1911
Rept. in The Messenger (Hollywood,CA), Dec. 1917, Jan. 191?
pp. 601-3, 636-40. Rept. in The Theosophist 59:8 (May 1938'
131-40.
An Address to the Sydney Lodge, White Lotus Day, May 8, 1911
"She was so many-sided that any attempt to describe her is fore-doome
to failure." Speaks of the effect of meeting her as a young curate in 188^
9 7 6 .--------. "White Lotus Day." The Messenger 12:12 (May 1925
185-86, 191-92.
An Address in Sydney 1924. "You must remember that Madam
Blavatsky has taken another birth and although she is not working amon
her Society in the physical plane, she still has a keen interest in it an
often asks about it from those of us whom she meets astrally."
9 7 7 .------- . "Madame Blavatsky, A White Lotus Day Celebration.
The Australian Theosophist 2:5 (May 15, 1927): 143-47.
Bishop Leadbeater’s May 8th Address "Reminiscences in the Lil
of Madame Blavatsky" to "an overflowing audience" at Adyar Hal
Sydney. It was broadcast over radio station 2GB. "Tremendous force wj
the first impression, and perhaps courage, outspokenness, ar
straightforwardness were the second." Comments on the charge of h<
being a Russian spy. "She could not have kept up the deception for te
minutes; she would have given it all away by this almost sava£
outspokenness."
Vorks About HP. Blavatsky 287
* --------. How Theosophy Came toMe. Cited as item 159.
Describes his meeting Blavatsky in London in 1884 as a young
urate and the voyage out to India with her later that year.
9 7 8 .--------. "Memories of Madame Blavatsky." The Theosophist
(Hollywood, CA) 1:4 (January 1930): 403-7.
"Some unrevised notes of an address about her by Mr. Leadbeater,
lelivered here twenty-six years ago and believed not published hitherto."
)eals with her characteristics.
9 7 9 .--------. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophist 53:1
(October 1931): 41-47.
Talk at the Adyar Centenary Celebration of H.P.B.’s birth, Aug.
2, 1931. "She changed me absolutely in about six weeks."
9 8 0 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky and Her Society." The Theosophist
54:8 (May 1933): 149-59. Rept. in The American Theosophist
(Wheaton, IL) 21:7 (July 1933): 145-47, 161-62.
"Meeting her recently, I took the opportunity to assure her that her
mage in our hearts was a vivid as of yore, that the fervency of our
wing and undying remembrance was undimmed....‘Yes,’ she replied,
that is all very well; but if they profess to remember me, why do so
lany of them forget the clean life and the brotherhood I taught them?
)eeds speak louder than words. ’"
981. Legros, George Cardinal. "The Return of Madame Blavatsky."
Horoscope Guide, July 1970. Rept. in Dawn (Yorba Linda, CA),
no. 1, January 1973, pp. [3-6].
Astrological study of Blavatsky, "whose reappearance in 1975 will
gain challenge our world of unthinking thrill-bent escapists."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
982. Leichtman, Robert, ed. From Heaven to Earth: H.P. Blavatsk
Returns. Columbus, Ohio: Ariel Press, 1980. 96 pp.
Blavatsky interviewed through the mediumship of David Kendric
Johnson. Comes across like a "Victorian version of Auntie Mame"-
praises the work of C.W. Leadbeater.
983. Leisenring, W. Wilson. "Genius and the Akasha." The Occu
Review (London), February 1930, pp. 84-89.
An extended review of Eugene Corson’s edition of H.P.B.’s lettei
to his father (item 778).
9 8 4 .--------. "Cultural Reactions to Madame Blavatsky an
Theosophy." The Occult Review (London), August 1931, pj
88-97.
Compares three recent studies dealing with Blavatsky—a ne
cheap edition of Baseden Butt’s Madame Blavatsky, C.E. Bechhofi
Roberts’ Mysterious Madame, and Alvin Boyd Kuhn’s Theosophy—i
testifying "to her importance both in the world of modem thought and j
an ‘amazing’ and suitable subject for journalistic enterprise." Sa]
Baseden Butt’s book "still holds the field, and it will be a long tin
before it is superseded."
9 8 5 .--------. "The Centenary of a Symbologist." The Asiatic Revie\
October 1931, pp. 763-64.
On H.P.B.’s contribution to the study of archaic symbolis
through her theories in The Secret Doctrine.
986. Lemesurier, Peter. "Is anybody out there?" Ch. 10 in Beyond /.
Belief. Salisbury, Eng.: Element Books, 1983, pp. 111-24.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 289
"Madame Blavatsky’s elaboration of her basic thesis leaves little
*oom for doubt that it is the human collective unconscious which she is
eally describing. The common source of all wisdom...recorded only in
>trange, arcane symbols,...guarded and mediated by timeless, superhuman
igures...In the light of Jungian psychology, there can be little doubt that
vhat H.P.B. was really in contact with was her own deeper psyche, as
t responded energetically and intuitively to the stimulus of a mass of
ncoming ideas."
987. Leonard, Maurice. "Messenger of the Masters." New Dimensions
(St. Paul, MN), March 1965, pp. 8-20.
According to the synopsis introducing this familiar retelling, "The
ife of Madame Blavatsky, founder of the Theosophical Society and
rnthor of The Secret Doctrine, was a very full and picturesque one. Even
ler christening was eventful. Often brusque and quick tempered, she was
ilso capable of enormous kindness and generosity. And her work laid the
bundation of much of modem occultism."
9 8 8 .--------. Madame Blavatsky...Medium, Mystic and Magician.
London: Regency Press, 1976. 115 pp.
This biography distinguishes itself by not producing a single
botnote or indication of sources. Tries to be fair, but commits a number
>fblunders due to superficial reading. The Theosophical Society was not
brmed at the "Lamasery," the name the N.Y. papers dubbed the
ipartment where Olcott and Blavatsky moved to at the end of 1876. In
lumming up her career, Leonard says, "If Madame Blavatsky was a fraud
hen she is, indeed, entitled to permanent remembrance as one of the
vorld’s most ingeniousjokers, who bamboozled us, awed us, puzzled us
ind, in general, cheered us up. If she was genuine, and her courage and
ledication through illness would seem to indicate this, then her message
s most significant."
290 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
989. Lewis, A. Spencer [Imperator]. "H.P. Blavatsky—A Few Word
of Appreciation and Explanation." The Mystic Triangle, Ma
1929, pp. 104-8.
Reflections on Blavatsky’scontribution to mystic studies during h
travels through Egypt and Europe. Stayed at the same hotel she did i
Basle.
9 9 0 .------- [The Imperator]. "A Beloved Woman of Mysticism." 77;
Rosicrucian Digest (San Jose, CA) 15:12 (January 1938): 444-4"
"I admired and loved the work and achievements of Madau
Blavatsky for years before I knew the truth about her Rosicrucia
connections."
991. Lillie, Arthur. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 9 in Modern Mystic
and Modern Magic. London: Swan Sonnenschein & Co.; Ne
York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1894, pp. 115-26, 169-72.
Mainly a criticism of the Theosophical teaching of Devachan ar
the sevenfold constitution of man. Blavatsky is discredited but for tl
adherence of Besant to Theosophy.
9 9 2 .--------. Madame Blavatsky and her nTheosophy." London: Sw*
Sonnenschein & Co., 1895. xi, 228 pp.
"We have to account not for the failure of Madame Blavatsky, b
for her conspicuous success. How is it that a fibbing, cheating, variei
performer, with her dressed-up dolls and gummed envelopes, obtain*
subjection over minds like those of Mr. Maitland, Mr. Hume, Dr. Wyl<
Mr. Sinnett, Mr. Myers?"
993. Linville, William R. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, Theosophy, ar
American Thought." Ph. D. diss.. University of Hawaii, 1983. x
229 pp.
Works About H.P. Blavcitsky 291
Part 1 covers the image of Blavatsky. Part 2, the influence of
rheosophy on writers Yeats, Lawrence, Henry Miller, Jack London.
\verages about two misstatements of fact per page.
994. Lull, Marian B. "An Incident with Madame Blavatsky." The Path
(New York) 8:5 (August 1893): 135-36. Rept. in Theosophia (Los
Angeles) 30:2 (Fall 1973): 13-14.
Attended an informal reception at Mme. Blavatsky’s rooms on
West 47th Street in New York in 1878. Had a psychic experience. "I am
Tilly convinced I was not hypnotized."
995. M. T., trans. "The ‘Complex Character’ of Madame Blavatsky."
Light (London), Mar. 2, 1901, p. 103.
Quotes a letter from C.W. Leadbeater, June 14, 1885 in an article
>y Prof. Sellin in Psychische Studien, relating T. Subba Row’s theory
hat the original H.P. Blavatsky died some twenty years before and a
certain Adept took over her body. During his absence it was animated by
wo chelas. But "as no Adept or chela can enter into a woman’s body
luring times of illness, at such times, it had to be taken possession of by
i terrible ill-tempered, ignorant old Tibet woman, in place of the Adept
>
r chelas, as she was the onlyfemale available for this purpose."
996. McCabe, Joseph. "Mme. Cagliostro-Blavatsky." Ch. 2 in The
Nonsense Called Theosophy. Girard, Kansas: Haldeman-Julius
Publications, 1927, pp. 16-33.
Cites Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis and Hodgson’s Report
which he obviously has not read) as overwhelming evidence that
Havatsky was a fraud. "She confessed everything [to Solovyov], and, if
ler followers had not proved so incredibly obtuse, she would have
nriched modem literature with one of the most romantic autobiographies
ince Casanova." Proof that Mme. Blavatsky "was a liar" is shown by
/hat is known of Tibet compared with what she claimed. There, monks
are as grossly ignorant as they are filthy."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
997. McMillian, Alec. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 1 in Portentou,
Prophets and Prophetesses. London: Digby, Long & Co., [1897]
pp. 13-31.
Two short reviews of Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis an<
Vol. 1 of Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, quoting extensively from botl
works. Reviews Solovyov favorably—"a vivid picture of an extraordinar
woman who, stained though her life’s record was by systematic fraud anc
deception, was endowed with many attractive qualities, and possessed j
wonderfully magnetic power of fascination"—and Olcott unfavorably.
998. "Madame Blavatsky." The Tribune (New York) May 10, 1891, p
6. Rept. in the 1931 ed. of item 695.
An editorial. Begins: "Few women in our time have been mori
persistently misrepresented, slandered, and defamed than Madam<
Blavatsky, but though malice and ignorance did their worst upon he
there are abundant indications that her life-work will vindicate itself; tha
it will endure; and that it will operate for good."
999. "Madame Blavatsky Again. A Further Explication of the Buddhis
Faith and its Miracles." The World (New York), April 2, 1877
p. 1. Rept. in Theosophical History 4:2 (April 1992): 51-55.
Early interview with Mme. Blavatsky where she talks abou
Buddhism and her experiences in India.
1000. Madame Blavatsky and her Detractors and the Verdict of Thos<
who knew her Best. Bombay, 1891. 10 pp.
Extracts from Lucifer June, July, Aug. 1891, the Path June 189
and The Theosophist July 1891 on H.P.B. by those who knew her.
1001. "Mme. Blavatsky Dead. End of the Life of the Investigator o
Theosophy." The New York Times, May 9, 1891, p. 1.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 293
"It was her business in life to surround herself with an atmosphere
>fromance and mystery, but it is certain that she did travel extensively,
ind the belief is widespread that she was a spy in the employ of the
Russian Government." A revised obituary was published in the next day’s
Urnes (item 721).
[002. "Madame Blavatsky Dead. The Career of the Founder of the
Theosophical Society." The Tribune (New York), May 9, 1891,
p. 7.
Features extensive coverage of her early years before the founding
>f the Theosophical Society, ending with a quote from W.Q. Judge,
American Gen. Sec. of the Society, "We have known that Madame
llavatsky had been an invalid for a long time, and it was only her
ndomitable pluck and endurance that have kept her alive so long. Up to
ler death she was working heart and soul for the cause for which she so
ibly preached. It is of course a shock to us, and I, who have known her
ntimately for years, have lost a dear friend. She can have no successor."
[003. "Mme. Blavatsky Dead. Remarkable Career of the High Priestess
of Theosophy." The World (New York), May 9, 1891, p. 3.
Lengthy obituary enlivened by personal anecdotes. "A peculiarity
>fMme. Blavatsky was her dislike of meat as an edible. She revolted at
he English taste for rare beef, though it was impossible to resist the
mpression that she did so largely on account of her Anglophobia.
Anything English was abhorrent to her, excepting table sauces. Rare beef,
lowever, was a pet aversion, and one evening when I praised Hamburger
teak to her, and told her it should be eaten raw, she excitedly declared
hat to eat it so was as bad as cannibalism. Beef, when she ate it, which
vas seldom, was served brown and smothered with gravies and sauces."
004. "Mme. Blavatsky’s Death. Last Moments of the High Priestess of
Theosophy." The World (New York), May 10, 1891, p. 1.
294 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Prints the "certificate of death" from her attending physician, Di
Z. Mennell, and eyewitness accounts of her last moments.
1005. "Madame Blavatsky’s Life." The Tribune (New York), Mar. 2
1896, p. 10.
Report of a lecture by Claude Falls Wright in New York oi
Blavatsky’s life and work. Quotes some anecdotes about her early life.
1006. "Mme. Blavatsky’s Power. Events in the Career of a Remarkabl
Woman." The New York Times, Jan. 2, 1885, p. 3.
Notice of Olcott’s "Special Orders of 1884" forming the America
Board of Control to oversee Theosophical work in that country serves t
recall the origin of the movement in America and Mme. Blavatsky. "Th
closest study of a trained New York reporter failed for over two years t
convince him that she was either a fraud or self-deluded, or that he
seeming powers were genuine." Presents incidents with Blavatsky in Ne^
York.
1007. Maeterlinck, Maurice. The Great Secret. Trans, by Bernard Mial]
New York: The Century Co., 1922, pp. 199-204.
"Isis Unveiled, The Secret Doctrine and the rest of Madam
Blavatsky’s very numerous works form a stupendous and ill-balance
monument, or rather a sort of colossal builder’s yard, into which th
highest wisdom, the widest and most exceptional scholarship, the mo;
dubious odds and ends of science, legend and history, the mo:
impressive and most unfounded hypotheses, the most precise an
improbable statements of fact, the most plausible and most chimeric*
ideas, the noblest dreams, and the most incoherent fancies are poure
pell-mell by inexhaustible truck-loads."
1008. Magre, Maurice. "Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophists." I
The Return of the Magi. Trans, by Reginald Merton. Londoi
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 295
Philip Allen, 1931, pp. 249-79. Rept. as Magicians, Seers and
Mystics. New York: E.P. Dutton & Co., 1932.
Names Blavatsky as "the most direct of the messengers of the East
>f whom we have any knowledge." These have included Apollonius of
fyana, Christian Rosenkreutz, and the Count Saint-Germain.
.009. Main, William. H.P. Blavatsky and the Theosophical Society.
[New York:] Printed for distribution by an F.T.S., [1891]. 4 pp.
A paper read before the Brooklyn and Aryan T.S., May 1891. The
leath of H.P.B. dates a new era in the Society, "a transition from a crude
tage of growth and pupilage to one of more independent self-reliant
growth."
.010. Maitland, Edward. "Countess Wachtmeister’s Reminiscences of
Madam Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Lucifer, February 15,
1894, p. 517.
Narrows down the date of his visit with Anna Kingsford to
llavatsky at Ostende, as Oct. 5 to 8th, 1886, not a fortnight as Countess
Vachtmeister says in her Reminiscences (1195).
O i l .--------. "Mrs. Kingsford and Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the
Editor, The Unknown World (London), March 15, 1895, pp.
90-91.
Maitland, Mrs. Kingsford’s collaborator, corrects Arthur Lillie’s
>ortrayal of their relationship in his book on Mme. Blavatsky (item 992).
lays that "Madame Blavatsky never for a moment exercised the smallest
nfluence over either Mrs. Kingsford or myself....Mr. Lillie’s account of
he relations of Madame Blavatsky and Mrs. Kingsford is so far from
listorical as to compel his readers to other sources for a really
rustworthy account of Madame Blavatsky herself."
296 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1012. Mann, Walter. "Madame Blavatsky: The Founder of Theosophy.
Ch. 10 in The Follies and Frauds of Spiritualism. London: Watt
& Co., 1919, pp. 94-114.
Blavatsky as portrayed by Podmore, Edmund Garrett, Hodgson
and Solovyov. "The moral of this sordid story, and indeed of the whol
history of Spiritualism, is that, however truthful, upright, and hones
deponents may be, their testimony is worthless as a proof of th
supernatural."
1013. Mathison, Richard R. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 22 in Faiths
Cults and Sects ofAmerica. Indianapolis: The Bobbs-Merrill Co.
1960, pp. 142-47.
Hopelessly muddles events in Blavatsky’s life while providin
"Theosophic lore" bearing no relation to her views. After Olcott an<
Blavatsky arrived in Bombay in Feb. 1879, and met Swami Dayananda
Mathison says, "Within days they were denouncing the Hindu as ;
humbug and he was calling them frauds." But Dayananda9
s statements ii
a letter of May 7, 1879, after meeting the Theosophists, "They are gentl
and wise....Our union with these sahibs will lead to the progress of th
people of India" (Autobiography of Swami Dayanand Saraswati, Ne\
Delhi, 1978, p. 64), as well as Olcott’s May 5, 1879 lecture before th
Arya Samaj of Meerut (item 1742), show quite clearly who the humbu
is.
1014. Mattice, Alice Love. "‘Sowing the West with Eastern Thought1
The Theosophical Society and Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 2 in "Th
Quest for the Mysterious East: Max Muller, Blavatsky, Gandhi.
Ph.D. diss., Harvard University, 1975, pp. 64-130.
"For Indians Theosophy provided a bridge to nationalist politics
The Theosophical Society soon possessed a national organization, uniqu
in India; and, by its very vagueness about what constituted the India
heritage, it overcame the factionalism which had crippled both th
Brahmo Samaj and the movements of Dayananda and Ramakrishna. ”
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 297
1015. May, Antoinette. "Helena Blavatsky. Mother of Mysticism." Ch.
4 in Different Drummers. Millbrae, CA: Les Femmes, 1972, pp.
81-104.
Depicts Blavatsky as "the consumate pushy broad, loud-mouthed,
foul-mouthed and corpulent....but as a result of her efforts, occult
mysticism and the doctrine of reincarnation were introduced to the
Western world." Says she "may have been a repugnant siren but she was
i siren no less." Other biographical sketches in the book include Victoria
Woodhull, Amelia Earhart, Isadora Duncan, and Sarah Bernhardt.
1016. Mead, George Robert Stowe. Address Read by G.R.S. Mead,
B.A., (Cantab). General Secretary ofthe European Section of the
Iheosophical Society, At the Cremation of the Body of Helena
Petrovna Blavatsky. London: The H.P.B. Press, [1891]. 4 pp.
Rept. in The Theosophist 52:11 (August 1931): 689-91.
"The one great purpose of our teacher’s life in this her present
incarnation, a purpose which she pursued with such complete
unselfishness and singleness of motive, was to restore to mankind the
knowledge of those great spiritual truths we to-day call Theosophy. Her
unvarying fidelity to her great mission, from which neither contumely nor
misrepresentation ever made her swerve, was the keynote of her strong
rnd fearless nature."
1017.--------. "The Cremation." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15, 1891): 271-75.
Rept. in item 695.
At 10 a.m., Mon. morning, May 11, 1891, Theosophists gathered
it 19 Avenue Road to transfer Blavatsky’s body to the hearse for
Waterloo Station. Mead describes the setting, and the journey from
Woking Station to the Crematorium. There was "no ceremony, no pomp
)r pageantry, no distressing signs of emotion or useless mourning." Gives
lis eulogy from item 1016.
298 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1018.--------. "The Last Two Years." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15, 1891):
295-99. Rept. in item 695.
From Aug. 1889 to the time she died, Mead served as Blavatsky’s
editorial assistant and private secretary. Discloses her work habits.
"Everything was so unconventional. I used to sit on the arm of her great
arm-chair and obediently smoke the cigarette she offered, while she
opened the letters, told me what she wanted done and signed diplomat
and certificates."
1019.--------. "The Secret Doctrine, Volume Three." Lucifer 20 (Jul)
1897): 353-60. Rept. in The American Theosophist 60:3 (March
1962): 45-48.
Mead, who edited the third edition of The Secret Doctrine, reviews
volume three. "One of the substantial misconceptions that H.P.B. labored
under was that she had in hand a sufficient mass of MS. to make twc
additional volumes. This was not actually the case. No doubt had she
lived she would have carried out her promise, for her custom was tc
write at least half of the work she was engaged upon as it was goin^
through the press."
1020.--------. "Concerning H.P.B." The Theosophical Review (London
34 (April 15, 1904): 131-44. Rept. Bombay, [c.1904]. 20 pp
Rept. in The Theosophic Messenger, July, Sept. 1905, pp. 145
148, 161-64, 178-80. Rept. in The Messenger 2:12 (May 1915):
518-25. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1920. 21
pp.
Responds to the question "Do you believe in Blavatsky" based or
his own experiences with her. "A very few months first-hanc
acquaintance with H.P.B. convinced me that the very faults of hei
character were such that she could not have possibly carried on 2
carefully planned fraud, even had she wanted to do so, least of all ar
elaborate scheme of deception depending on the manipulation o
mechanical devices and the help of crafty confederates."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 299
1021.--------. "Facts About The Secret Doctrine." The Occult Review
(London), May 1927, pp. 319-24.
Reveals his editorial duties with Blavatsky. "For the last three
/ears of her life, I had Englished, corrected or edited everything H.P.B.
wrote for publication, including the MS. of The Voice of Silence, and
that, too, with her entire assent and approval." Says he was responsible
for the major part of the revision of the third edition of The Secret
Doctrine, but refused to have anything to do with Vol. 3, as it was "not
ap to standard, and that it would no way improve the work." Mrs. Besant
thought otherwise and edited it for publication herself.
1022. Meade, Marion. Madame Blavatsky: The Woman Behind the Myth.
New York: G.P. Putnman’s Sons, 1980. 528 pp.
Heavily indebted to Williams’ 1946 biography (item 1211), and
like its model the storyline of what should be frequently carries away her
pen from describing what actually happened. "Two mornings after her
[H.P.B.’s] return from Chittenden, full of optimism and self-possession,
she opened the Daily Graphic to find catastrophe staring up at her. In a
sarcastic article by Dr. George Beard, the Eddy brothers were denounced
is frauds..." (p. 126). But unless she was as imaginative as Meade she
;ould not have seen Beard’s letter to the editor there, for it appeared in
:he N.Y. Sun\ "Some years later, Jennie Holmes would admit to a
Founder of the Theosophical Society that Madame had arranged the
spurious phenomenon for Olcott’s benefit" (p. 135). But as I have shown
n item 839, Jennie Holmes said no such thing. Unfortunately these slips
)f the pen are not isolated incidents and mar the portrait of Blavatsky as
i witty old scallywag. Reviewed by item 1254.
1023. Mencken, Henry Louis. "Hooey from the Orient." In A Mencken
Chrestomathy. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1949, 1953, 1956,
pp. 355-57.
A review of Bechhofer-Roberts’ Mysterious Madame (678) from
he American Mercury, Nov. 1931. Compares Blavatsky with Mary Baker
iddy and says they both emerged from "obscure and stupid family
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
circles." "She was a fraud, pure and unadulterated," and the oriental
philosophy she promulgated was "the product of degraded ignoramuses
who make India a sewer of superstition."
1024. Merchant, Francis. "Messenger of the Mahatmas: H.P.
Blavatsky." Ch. 7 in Great Images. Scottsbluff, Nebr.: College
Press, 1967, pp. 104-16.
"Mme. Blavatsky proposed to restore man to a place of dignit)
and responsibility in the universe in opposition to efforts of authoritarian
theology and materialist science. She ascribed meaning to the human
experience....Beyond man, she declared, stands superman, that is, the
person who has resolved the conflict of contending forces within himsell
and achieved wisdom."
1025. Michaelson, Alexander. "Isis Unveiled." Blackfriars (Oxford) S
(September 1928): 532-40.
Mme. Blavatsky is used to recall the passion for the occult amon^
London hostesses during 1884, but this writer lets the reader know thai
"Wisdom from the caves of Tibet promulgated by a spherical Russian
colossus would always find me alien, indifferent."
1026. Milworthy, Esther. "‘H.P.B.’ Personal Recollections of Madame
Blavatsky." Westminster Gazette, Dec. 11, 1894.
Ridicules Blavatsky, "the fattest woman I ever saw," when a house
guest at her parents home in Ootacamund, India. For another famil)
member’s recollections see item 1216.
1027. Mishlove, Jeffrey. Roots of Consciousness: Psychic Liberation
through History, Science and Experience. New York: Randon
House/Bookworks, 1975, pp. 79-81.
301
Blavatsky’s place in "consciousness history" showing how
inconclusive exposures can be. "Authorities differ on the authenticity of
the material phenomena as well as the authenticity and legitimacy of
Theosophical teachings. Like many flamboyant psychics who were
capable of producing genuine phenomena, Blavatsky’s claims may have
at times been fraudulent. A massive amount of detective work is required
in such cases to tease out the genuine psychic manifestations from the
host of unconscious projections and tricks."
1028. Mitchell, Belle Olcott. "The Character of Madame Blavatsky."
The Theosophist 22:4 (January 1901): 252-54.
Letter from Mrs. Mitchell, "New York, 1878," to the editor of
London Spiritualist ("but never sent"), defending Mme. Blavatsky’s
character.
1029.--------. "Madam Blavatsky." The Word (New York) 1:4 (January
1905): 182-87.
Mrs. Mitchell, Col. Olcott’s favorite sister, gives her impressions
of H.P.B. in New York. They lived in the same building on West 34th
Street in 1876. "The morning was not a good time to judge her
capabilities; her eyes were heavy and unrested, her temper not of the
best, and she was at variance with every one."
1030. Mitchell, Edward P. "Meddlings with the Occult." Ch. 6 in
Memoirs of an Editor. New York and London: Charles Scribner’s
Sons, 1924, pp. 184-92.
Mitchell, formerly editor-in-chief of the New York Sun, narrates
tiis experiences as a young reporter with Blavatsky in New York.
Reproduces a long missive from her "confiding her thoughts about the
troubled ocean of theosophical politics."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1031. Moon, G. Washington, ed. "Blavatsky, Madame Helena
Petrovna." In Men and Women of the Time. A Dictionary oj
Contemporaries. London: George Routledge & Sons, 1891, pp.
97-99. Rept. The Theosophist 47:12 (September 1926): 695-98.
Biographical entry on Blavatsky that appeared shortly before hei
death and used widely by the press in obituaries about her.
f 1032. "More About the Theosophists. An Interview with Mdme.
I Blavatsky." The Pall Mall Gazette, April 26, 1884, pp. 3-4. Rept.
' in the Supplement to The Theosophist, July 1884, pp. 101-2.
More a description than an interview of the reporter’s awed
encounter with Mme. Blavatsky. "Whatever may be thought of hei
philosophy or Theosophy, whatever credence may be attached to the
account of the mysterious powers she claims to possess—powers upor
which, it is fair to say, she lays no stress, nay, appears to regard with the
supremest unconcern—she is a woman, who regarded from the purel)
intellectual standpoint, deserves more attention than she has hitherto
received."
1033. Morris, Kenneth. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky—A Sketch." The
Theosophical Path 38:2 (August 1930): 109-31.
Sketches principal events in Blavatsky’s life and tries to supply the
motivation behind them.
1034. [Morris, Ronald A.V.] "H.P. Blavatsky: A List of some Books
Pamphlets, and Magazine Articles, referring to H.P.B." Thi
Canadian Theosophist, Aug., Oct. 1931, pp. 187-92, 253-55.
Two hundred seventy-one items listed by author or titli
representing books, pamphlets, articles, notes, reviews, odes, passing
references, to H.P.B., plus autobiographical fragments relating to hei
career. Included in item 719.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 303
L035.--------. "The Two H.P. Blavatskys.” The Aryan Path (Bombay)
3:1 (January 1932): 52-57.
Explains the antagonism generated against Blavatsky by placing
ler in the context of her time: conservative Russian society of St.
Petersburg and Odessa, the Spiritualist response because of Isis Unveiled,
ind the hostility of the missionaries after her landing in India in 1879.
1036. Muller, F. Max. "Esoteric Buddhism." The Nineteenth Century 33
(May 1893): 767-88. Rept. in The Collected Works of the Right
Hon. F. Max Muller. Vol. 18. London: Longmans, Green & Co.,
1901, pp. 79-133.
Writes about the fabulous tales told about India by Western
ravellers, ending with Blavatsky’s recent contribution. "Like
Schopenhauer, she seems to have discovered through the dark mists of
mperfect translations some of the brilliant rays of truth which issue from
he Upanishads and the ancient Vedanta philosophy of India." But
leclares her Esoteric Buddhism to be "Buddhism misunderstood,
listorted, caricatured," because "if there is any religion entirely free from
isoteric doctrines it is Buddhism."
0 3 7 .--------. "Esoteric Buddhism: A Rejoinder." The Nineteenth
Century 33 (August 1893): 296-305. Rept in The Collected Works
of the Right Hon. F. Max Mailer. Vol. 18. London: Longmans,
Green & Co., 1901, pp. 156-70.
Acknowledges Sinnett’s criticism (item 1444) in the July 1893
ssue of the Nineteenth Century to his May article, but maintains his
position "as strongly as ever, that we shall never find esoteric twaddle in
tie whole of the Buddhist canon, as little as we shall find coal beneath
;ranite."
038. Munnik, Gerrit. "The Influence of H.P. Blavatsky on Modem
Art." In H.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (item 864),
1971, pp. 195-203; 1988, pp. 209-16.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
The influence of Blavatsky’s writings on the aesthetic theories o
Mondrian, Kandinsky and Klee. According to Kandinsky’s The Spiritua
in Art, "Madame Blavatsky was the first person, after a life of man]
years in India, to see a connection between these ‘savages’ and oui
‘civilization.’"
1039. [Murdoch, John, ed.] Madame Blavatsky: Her Tricks and He
Dupes. Madras: The Christian Literature Society, 1894. 44 pp.
"An account of the Origin and the History of the Theosophies
Society till the ‘Collapse of Koot Hoomi.’" Blavatsky portrayed as "
charlatan making claims to knowledge which she did not possess," ;
consummate hypocrite, trickster, plagiarist, forger, liar, and he
Theosophy, which is "virtually atheistic, discourages prayer" with it
tenet "that man must be his own saviour."
1040. Murphet, Howard. When Daylight Comes. A Biography ofHelen
Petrovna Blavatsky. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical PublishingHouse
1975, 1988. xxxi, 277 pp.
Novelized biography of Blavatsky commissioned for the 197
centenary of the Theosophical Society.
1041. Neff, Mary K. "When H.P.B. and Colonel Olcott Too
Panchasila." The Theosophist 49:11 (August 1928): 597-606.
Miss Neffs earliest article on Theosophical history. Mainly mad
up of relevant extracts from Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves and the Pionee
of June 25, 1880, on the Founders becoming Buddhists at th
Vijayananda Vihara, Galle, on May 25, 1880. Quotes Olcott that "H.P.E
knelt before the huge statue of the Buddha, and I kept her company
Together we repeated after the monk Bulatgama, the words of the Thre
Refuges and the Five Vows of the Buddhist layman."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 305
L042.--------. "Extracts from Countess Wachtmeister’s Letters as to
H.P.B.’s last days." The Theosophist 50:8 (May 1929): 124-26.
Extracts from Countess Wachtmeister’s letters to Bertram
Ceightley, Oct. 24, 1890, Mar. 6, Apr. 19, and May 25, 1891,
conveying news from the London headquarters. "H.P.B. is seldom
)resent; in fact, we seldom see her now. She shuts herself up for days
ogether." Includes a letter from Mrs. Sinnett, May 13, 1891, stating the
eason for H.P.B.’s unexpected departure was a sudden opportunity for
in immediate reincarnation.
1043.--------. "Echoes of the Past: H.P.B. at the Eddys." The
Theosophist 51:4 (January 1930): 427-31. j
Reprints Blavatsky’s first letter to the American press, published /
n the N. Y. Daily Graphic, Oct. 30, 1874, as "Marvellous Spirit I
Manifestations," along with a facsimile of the page where it appears in I
/ol. I of her press Scrapbooks. *
[044.--------. "H.P. Blavatsky: Defier of Convention." The Australian
Theosophist, Sept., Nov. 1931, pp. 112-13, 145-46.
Cites incidents from Blavatsky’s youth to account for the origin of
ler later non-conformity. Decides that "she was a pioneer in many ways
>f the women of the twentieth century, in such matters as her rebellion
gainst a forced marriage, her insistence on a career of her own, even in
ler habit of smoking."
0 4 5 .--------. "The Childhood of Helena Petrovna von Hahn
(Blavatsky)." The Theosophist, June-Aug. 1933, pp. 298-304,
422-29, 510-19.
Extracts from Sinnett’s Incidents and Blavatsky’s letters to him
ecreate her early years. The Aug. 1933 installment reproduces a picture
f the wall of her bedroom at Ervian, Armenia, from Blavatsky’s
crapbook 2.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1046.--------. "Emily Kislingbury on H.P.B." The Theosophist 55:2
(December 1933): 310-14.
Prints the concluding part of an address by Emily Kislingbury t(
the British National Association of Spiritualists, London, Dec. 1877
describing her stay with Blavatsky in New York earlier that year. Th(
article is illustrated by a facsimile of a letter from Miss Kislingbury t(
Olcott with a message in the handwriting of one of the Masters.
1047.------- . "H.P. Blavatsky. By Herself and others." Thi
Theosophist, Sept.-Oct. 1935, pp. 535-43, 18-26.
Forms the first three chapters of item 1048. 1. Childhood an<
Heredity. 2. The Child Medium. 3. Life at her Grandparents.
1048.------- . Personal Memoirs of H.P, Blavatsky. London: Rider <
5
Co.; New York: E.P. Dutton, 1937. 323 pp. Rept. Wheaton, IL
Quest Books, 1967.
A compilation based on standard Theosophical sources, principall;
Blavstsky’s letters and writings, and Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves. Take
her life up to the time of writing Isis Unveiled. An Appendix features ;
chronological table of H.P.B.’s travels. Although the Preface claimed ",
considerable amount ofhitherto unpublished material is incorporated fron
the Archives of the Theosophical Society," the reviewer for the N. Y
Herald Tribune's Book Section of Dec. 5, 1937 noted that only 2!
references out of the 388 were from the Adyar Archives, leaving 361
from already published sources.
1049.--------. "H.P.B. at Philadelphia." The Theosophist 61:5 (Februar
1940): 440-52.
| H.P.B.’s life in the City of Brotherly Love, 1874/75, covering he
I marriage to 33 year old Michael Betanelly, her use of the persona "Johu
VKing," and her recovery from a near-death illness.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 307
L050.--------. The Letters of H.P. Blavatsky to A.P. Sinnett. Their
Chronological Order. Wheaton, IL: The Theosophical Press,
1940. [7 pp.]
Miss Neffs arrangement for the 222 letters in item 674, marred
mfortunately by no indication of the writers or recipients. Copies of this
ist had been in circulation among Theosophical researchers since the
1930s.
1051.--------. "The Reincarnation of H.P.B." The Theosophist 64:3
(December 1942): 205-12.
Discloses Theosophical opinion on the subject, including private
alks by Annie Besant and C.W. Leadbeater. Miss Neff favors an Indian
ncamation which by 1942 was about "sixty-four or sixty five years of
ige."
[052.--------. "Helena Blavatsky and Anna Kingsford." The Theosophist
64:4 (January 1943): 293-97.
Reviews E. Douglas Hume’s 1939 book on vivisection, The Mind
Changers, which has seven chapters devoted to Anna Kingsford.
Compares Blavatsky’s approach to the problem.
0 5 3 .--------. "Young Madame Blavatsky Meets Her Master." The
Theosophist 65:2 (November 1943): 79-86.
Posits the theory that Mme. Blavatsky met her Indian teacher
hrice in London, 1850, 1851, and 1854, based on a reading of H.P.B.’s
tatements in a letter to Sinnett that she met him "in the year of the first
fepaul Embassy," and in her travelog, From the Caves and Jungles of
iindostan that "more than twenty-seven years ago I met him in the house
»f a stranger in London, whither he came in the company of a certain
ethroned Indian prince." Miss Neff identifies a mission of Nepalese
fficers to London in 1850, and that the 17 year old deposed Prince
)alip-Singh was sent to be educated in England in 1854. But only the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1851 Nepal delegation to International Exhibition in London can be
regarded as an official "embassy." And if Blavatsky’s fictional piece,
which was published in the Moscow Gazette of Apr. 29 (o.s.) 1880, was
written at the end of 1879, "more than 27 years ago" would take us back
to 1851.
1054.--------. "H.P. Blavatsky and Spiritualism. Pioneering in
Occultism." Theosophia (Los Angeles), July-Aug., Sept.-Oct.
1948.
Events of Blavatsky’s first two years in America from her arrival
in 1873, leading to her growing involvement in the Spiritualist movement.
1055.--------. "H.P. Blavatsky Meets Her Teacher." Theosophia (Los
Angeles), Jan.-Feb., Mar.-Apr. 1949.
Holds to the three meetings in London, 1850, 1851, and 1854.
1056. Neufeldt, Ronald. "In Search of Utopia: Karma and Rebirth in the
Theosophical Movement." Ch. 13 in Karma and Rebirth: Pos\
ClassicalDevelopments, ed. by Ronald W. Neufeldt. Albany, NY
State University of New York Press, 1986, pp. 233-55.
Examines the position of the teachings of karma and rebirth ii
Blavatsky’s writings. Proposes that they form "essentially a charter foi
the establishment of utopia and utopian hopes." "Throughout her writing!
one finds constant criticism of spiritists, Christians, and materialists whc
are regarded as spreaders of doom and gloom and blasphemers of th<
sacred. Against these she places theosophists who are preachers of truth
hope, and responsibilty through their doctrines of karma and rebirth."
1057. Nikolayeff, P.S. "Traces of H.P.B." Theosophia (Los Angeles
4:1 (May-June 1947): 15-16.
Yorks About H.P. Blavatsky 309
An excerpt from "Reminiscences of Prince A.I. Baryatinsky" from
storichesky Vestnik (Historical Messenger), St. Petersburg, Vol. 6, Dec.
885, pp. 622-24, giving the homelife of Blavatsky’s grandparents, the
7
adeyevs.
058. Oderberg, I. Manuel. "Relighting Creative Fires." Sunrise
(Pasadena, CA) 25:2 (November 1975): 38-47.
Overview of the publication of H.P.B.’s major works and the
amous people influenced by them.
0 5 9 .--------. "H.P. Blavatsky’s Influence in Literature." Theosophical
History 4:1 (January 1992): 11-16.
Criticizes Denis Saurat’s identification (item 1144) of Blavatsky’s
deas. "Dr. Saurat made the mistake—as others before him have done—of
egarding the quotations and references in The Secret Doctrine as
ndications of source material instead of being, or providing evidence for
ler claim of the universality of the concepts."
060. Olcott, Henry Steel. People From the Other World. Hartford, CT:
American Publishing Co., 1875. Rept. Rutland, VT: Charles E.
Tuttle Co., 1972, pp. 293-38, 355-61, 453-78.
A reprint of Olcott’s letters to the New York Daily Graphic, Oct.
3Dec. 1874, from the Eddy farmhouse in Vermont, where he met Mme.
Ilavatsky on Oct. 14. The Colonel introduced her to his readers in his
ixteenth letter from Rutland, Vt., printed in the Nov. 27, 1874 Graphic.
elsewhere in the book he describes her as one of the most remarkable
lediums, "for, instead of being controlled by spirits to do their will, it
5 she who seems to control them to do her bidding." The published
olume includes Olcott’s report on "the Katie King Affair," citing
llavatsky’s involvement in Philadelphia.
061. . Special Circular. Madras, Feb. 10, 1885. 1 p.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Cyclostyled notice sent "to relieve the anxiety of the many friends
of Madame Blavatsky who have been making inquiries as to her health."
Contains a certificate by her physician Dr. Mary Scharlieb stating the
previous grave nature of her illness and her present improved condition
I 1062.------- . "Madame Blavatsky an American Citizen." Letter to the
Editor, Madras Mail, April 17, 1885.
"Perhaps the best way to answer the nonsensical rumour—so offer
I maliciously circulated—that Madame Blavatsky was acting as a Russiar
political agent in India, will be to publish a copy of her certificate ol
American citizenship—which I now do." Gives the text of hei
naturalization papers dated July 8, 1878, New York.
1063.--------. "The President’s European Visit." Supplement to The
Theosophist, October 1888, pp. xvii-xix.
Olcott’s 1888 tour of Europe and England, and his reunion wit!
H.P.B. at 17 Lansdowne Rd. "However much Madame Blavaky’j
absence from Adyar may be deplored by her ardent friends, it cannot be
doubted that the movement profits by her presence in London, and hei
Theosophical proximity to our devoted colleagues in America."
1064.--------. "The Secret Doctrine." The Theosophist 10 (Januar)
1889): 247-49.
Review of The Secret Doctrine with background on the writing o
its predecessor, Isis Unveiled. After the first edition of Isis wai
exhausted, the publisher, J.W. Bouton offered H.P.B. $5,000 in advanc<
if she would "unveil Isis a little more and produce a second book."
1065.--------. "H.P.B.’s Death." The Theosophist 12:10 (July 1891)
573-80. Rept. Madras, [1891]. 12 pp. Rept. as "‘H.P.B.’s
Departure." Lucifer 8:48 (August 15, 1891): 445-52. Rept. in iten
695.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 311
"Despite seventeen years of intimacy in daily work, she was an
enigma to me to the end. Often I would think I knew her perfectly, and
)resently discover that there were deeper depths in her selfhood I had not
;ounded." Says she was "pre-eminently a double-sided personality," and
jives the reasons why she did not prosecute the Coulombs in 1884.
1066.--------. "White Lotus Day." Supplement to The Theosophist, May
1892, p. lix.
"Executive Order, Adyar, 17 April 1892" instituting "White Lotus
)ay," based on instructions in an 1885 Will of Blavatsky’s for a yearly
commemoration of her death.
1067.--------. "Traces of H.P.B." The Theosophist 14:7 (April 1893):
429-31.
"On the 3rd of March, 1893, S.V. Edge and I met in the train
between Nalhati and Calcutta, Major-General C. Murray (retired), late
of the] 70th Bengal Infantry, now Chairman of the Monghyr
Municipality, who met H.P.B. in 1854 or ‘55, at Punkabaree, at the foot
>fthe Daijeeling Hills. He was then a Captain, commanding the Sebundy
lappers and Miners. She was trying to get into Tibet via Nepal ‘to write
book’; and to do it, she wished to cross the Rungit river. Captain
Murray had it reported to him by the guard that a European lady had
massed that way, so he went after and brought her back. She was very
ngry, but in vain. She stopped with Captain and Mrs. Murray for about
month when, when finding her plan defeated, she left, and Captain
Murray heard of her as far as Dinajpore. She was then apparently about
hirty years of age." The original of the above memo, marked as
correct" by Murray, is reproduced from the end of Col. Olcott’s diary
or 1893 in The Theosophist, Dec. 1949, p. 190.
0 6 8 .--------. "H.P.B. at Cairo." Supplement to The Theosophist,
November 1893, p. ix.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
In response to a statement by Frederika Macdonald about H.P.B. ’
activities, Olcott had enquired to the Cairo police and had received th<
reply that "there are no records in this office about Madame Blavatsky.
* ------- . Old Diary Leaves. First Series. Cited as item 192.
Tells of his initial meeting Blavatsky in 1874, their work ii
Philadelphia and New York, the development of the Theosophica
Society, the writing of her first book Isis Unveiled, and last days in Nev
York before leaving for India in 1878.
1069.--------. "H.P.B. Psychometrized." The Theosophist 17:4 (Januar
1896): 205-6.
Psychometric reading of H.P.B.’s character by John Murray Spea
who visited them in New York.
1070.--------. "The Home-Coming of H.P.B." The Theosophist 20:!
(June 1899): 537-56.
On May 8th, 1899, a life-size statue of H.P.B. was presented t
the Theosophical Society by Col. Olcott and unveiled by him in th
headquarters hall at Adyar. Sculpted by S. Govindu Pillai, a Modellin
Teacher at the Madras School of the Arts, it was believed to be the firs
life-size human statue executed in that city. Addresses and writte
communications by Mrs. Besant, H. Sumangala and the Buddhists c
Colombo, Gen. H.R. Morgan, Prince Harisinhji Rupsinhji, Judg
Khandalavala, the Hon. Norendranath Sen, T. Vijiaragava Charlu, G
Soobiah Chetty, Dewan Bahadur R. Raghoonath Row, G.R.S Mead
Bertram Keightley, Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, Laura Cooper, Dr. Hubbe
Schleiden, and others are reproduced.
1071.--------. "H.P.B. and the Keely ‘Force.’" The Theosophist 20:1
(August 1899): 687-89.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 313
Addresses the problem of Blavatsky’s treatment in The Secret
doctrine of John Worrell Keely’s discovery of an "inter-etheric force"
vhich was later discredited. Olcott says "it is a fact that she has made a
fery great many mistakes in her books, mistakes in fact, in science, in
listory, in literary quotations, in authors' names, in pages," but believes
hat Keely’s discovery may have originally been genuine.
L072.--------. "H.P.B. Wrote Tibetan and Mongolian." The Theosophist
21:3 (December 1899): 178-79.
Tibetan and Mongolian inscription made by H.P.B. in Bombay,
leciphered by Sarat Chandra Das.
* --------. Old Diary Leaves. Second Series. Cited as item 196.
Life with Blavatsky in Bombay, their tours of North India in 1879,
Ceylon in 1880, and Madras Presidency in 1882.
0 7 3 .--------. "The Count de Saint-Germain and H.P.B.: Two
Messengers of the White Lodge." The Theosophist 26:10 (July
1905): 594-604. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1918. i, 19 pp. Rept. in The Theosophist 53:11 (August 1932):
654-68.
Traces a connection between Saint-Germain and Blavatsky through
he similarity of phenomena attributed to them, Olcott supplying his own
yewitness accounts.
* --------. Old Diary Leaves. Third Series. Cited as item 198.
The development of their headquarters at Adyar, Madras, 1883, their
isit to Europe in 1884 and the "Coulomb Missionary Conspiracy" of that
ear; H.P.B.’s subsequent departure for Europe in 1885, and news of her
ew ventures in London 1887.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
* --------. Old Diary Leaves. Fourth Series. Cited as item 199.
Mentions his meetings with Blavatsky in London in 1888 an<
1889, and his premonition of her death in 1891 while lecturing ii
Australia.
1074.--------. "Character Sketch of Mme. Blavatsky." The America/
Theosophist 65:4 (April 1977): 87-91.
Extracted from Old Diary Leaves I (item 192).
1075. Old, Rev. B. "Memories of H.P.B.—Over 50 Years Ago." 77r
Theosophist 63:2 (November 1941): 107-10.
White Lotus Day Address, May 8, 1941. Rev. Old, brother of th
Theosophical writer Walter Old, "Sepharial," recalls his visit to Y
Lansdowne Rd. in 1889.
1076. Old, Walter R. "Teacher and Friend." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15
1891): 302-4. Rept. in item 695.
Old made contact with Blavatsky in 1887 and joined th<
Theosophical household at Lansdowne Rd. in 1889. Remember
Blavatsky as "an incessant worker. I have often seen her at her desk a
early as six o’clock in the morning, and often in the coldest days of th<
winter months, several sheets had passed under her pen before she tool
breakfast."
1077.------- [Sepharial, pseud.]. "The Horoscope of H.P. Blavatsky.
The Theosophist 15:1 (October 1893): 12-17.
"The time of birth, equated for Greenwich, and converted int
terms of the New style, is 11:22 p.m., 11th August 1831." The Couloml
affair took place "under the following ominous influences—Sui
conjunction Moon, Sun sesqui-quadrate Uranus, Moon oppositionJupiter
Yorks About H.P. Blavatsky 315
tfoon square Mars, Moon square Saturn, Sun square Ascendent.” Col,
)lcott appends a note to all this.
0 7 8 .--------[Sepharial], "Mme. Blavatsky and Reincarnation." Letter
to the Editor, The Occult Review, February 1914, pp. 111-12.
Offers Blavatsky’s explanation to him on the apparent
ontradiction between Isis Unveiled and her later writings dealing with the
ubject of reincarnation. At the time of writing Isis the term was also
dentified with metempsychosis, the return in animal form, and it is this
relief that she denied as "doing violence to the law of evolution."
0 7 9 .--------[Scrutator]. "Madame Blavatsky: A Personal
Reminiscence." The Occult Review 19:3 (March 1914): 137-47.
Rept. in Theosophy in India 11:5 (April 1914): 241-55.
"She was ever an early riser, frequently commencing work before
iaylight. Indeed one would suspect her of sometimes having worked the
/hole night through, for I have myself often enough put in an appearance
t seven o’clock, to find, to my astonishment, that she was hard at work
nd still adding to the pile of manuscript which appeared to have risen
luring the night."
0 8 0 .--------[Sepharial]. "Horoscope of Madame Blavatsky." The
Occult Review (London), November 1923, pp. 293-96.
Adjusts the date of Blavatsky’s birth as Aug. 11, 1931;
fcaterinaslav, long. 35° E., lat. 47° 307 N.; time, 11 hr. 16 min. 18
ecs. p.m. locally. This is the equivalent to G.M.T. 8 hr. 26 min. 18
ecs. p.m. See his important correction in the Dec. 1923 Occult Review,
. 369.
081. Orchard, Anita F., and A. Fletcher. The Life and Horoscope of
Madame Blavatsky. Epsom, Eng.: Birch & Whittington, [c. 1925].
30 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
"Being a reply to the Lecture delivered to the British Astrologies
Association on May 10th, 1924, by Mr. Alfred Vale, containin
Quotations from the Memoirs of the late Count de Witte."
^ 1082. Oxley, William. "Theosophy and Materialized Psychic Forms.
Letter to the Editor, Light, Nov. 1, 1884, pp. 454-55.
Questions Blavatsky’s statement in her Oct. 11 letter in Light (iter
708), replying to Arthur Lillie that the spirit forms recognized by her a
the Eddys in 1874 were merely forms evoked by her. One of them
Michalko, "a Georgian servant," turned out to be still alive. "So muc]
; for spirit identification," Blavatsky says, but Oxley wants to kno\
; whence came the form. Was it his "astral form," was he "unconscious a
the time?"
\ 1083.--------- . "Theosophy and its Facts." Letter to the Editor, Light
June 27, 1885, pp. 306-7.
Oxley says that statements in Blavatsky’s story "Can the Doubl
Murder?" (Theos. Jan. 1883, rept. from the Dec. 26, 1875 N.Y. Sun) ar
incorrect. In her tale, retribution for the murder of Prince Michae
Obrenovich in 1868 is brought upon the assassins through the astn
"double" of someone living. Oxley says most of the assassins did nc
| escape.
1084.------- . "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. The Foundress of th
Theosophical Society." In Modern Messiahs and Wonder Workers
London: Trubner & Co., 1889, pp. 143-80.
Profile of Blavatsky and her teachings. Critical of Hodgson. Thi
"history of the various messianic claimants to special divine prerogatives
and of the sects that have arisen thereupon in recent times," covers als
Swedenborg, Johanna Southcott, Joseph Smith, Thomas Lake Harris.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 317
085. P. "Madame Blavatsky." Woman's Herald (London), May 16,
1891.
"P" writing as an "outsider" provides a frank review of
lavatsky’s character. "Few people have been in more constant hot water
tan Madame Blavatsky, indeed it may be said that her sky was never
without a thundercloud of criticism and abuse; and it often struck me as
trange that she was never able to meet it with equanimity. It always hurt
er to the quick."
086. Passingham, C.A. "A Tribute from the West." Lucifer 8:48
(August 15, 1891): 457-58.
Mrs. Passingham was introduced to Mme. Blavatsky at an S.P.R.
leeting at Oscar Browning’s rooms at Cambridge in 1884. "My personal
mnembrance of her will always be that of the kindest and most
ffectionate, as well as revered friend."
087. Patterson, Rev. George. "Madame Blavatsky." The British Weekly
(London), May 14, 1891, p. 40.
Rev. Patterson, who exposed her in the pages of the Madras
’
hristian College Magazine in 1884 by printing the letters attributed to
lavatsky by Emma Coulomb, writes her obituary. "It was impossible for
ladame Blavatsky to maintain a constant succession of phenomena
ithout an accomplice from whom she could have no secrets. Colonel
llcott was not this accomplice, but a certain Madame Coulomb."
088. Pennifold, Mary Charlotte. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 1 in
Blavatsky's Philosophy. Sydney, Australia: The Author, 1922, pp.
7-20.
General repetition of her life.
318 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1089. Percival, Harold W. "H.P. Blavatsky. " The Word (New York) 3:!
(May 1906): 70-81.
A summation of the events in Blavatsky’s life before the foundin;
of the Theosophical Society taken from Sinnett’s Incidents (1148).
1090. "Personal" [The death of Madame Blavatsky]. The lllustrate<
London News, May 16, 1891, p. 635.
"She had, at one time or another played on the credulity of th
people of nearly every civilized country in the world. She had beei
everywhere—in India, in Egypt, in far-away Thibet, in the States, i]
every European capital. She kept a gambling hell in Tiflis. She wa:
married more than once—more than twice, says rumour—to a boy o
sixteen when she was fifty, to a general of sixty when she was seventeen
It both cases the union was dissolved with mysterious swiftness—in th
case of her boy husband by an attack of madness the day after th
marriage."
1091. Pissareva, Helena Fyodorovna. "The World Mission of H.P
Blavatsky." Trans, by A.L. Pogosky. The Theosophist 32:8 (Ma
1911): 184-94.
An appreciation of Mme. Blavatsky’s work translated from Ch.
of Mme. Pissareva’s biographical sketch Yelena Petrovna Blavatskaya
1911. The full Russian text has been reprinted by "ALBA," Boston 1966
in two volumes from the second edition of 1937, Vol. 1, 74 pp., Vol 2
pp. 75-146, has quotes from other writers.
1092.------- . "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." Trans, by A.L. Pogosk)
The Theosophist 34:4 (January 1913): 495-506.
Covers the "First Period of H.P. Blavatsky’s Life." Suggests thi
"her marriage at the age of eighteen with an elderly and unloved mar
with whom she could not have anything in common, can be explaine
only by a keen desire to gain more freedom. If one imagines th
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 319
onditions of life of a young lady in provincial ‘high life,’ even in a good
amily, with all its prejudices and irksome etiquette of that time, one can
asily understand how such conditions oppressed a nature so ardent, so
lifficult to limit, and so freedom-loving as the young Helena Petrovna’s
nust have been."
093. Pogosky, A.L. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky: A Chapter of her
Past." The Theosophist 34:10 (July 1913): 475-89; rept. 105:11
(August 1984): 407-14.
Surmises that a Prince Galitzyne, a relative of the Viceroy of the
Caucasus, who often visited Blavatsky’s grandparents, and who was
onsidered "either a Freemason, or a magician, or a fortune-teller," was
esponsible for her decision to run away to Egypt, for immediately after
lis departure from Tiflis "came the sudden decision of Helena Petrovna
d marry a very unsuitable old gentleman, M. Blavatsky."
094. Pollock, A.J. "Theosophy: Its Founder and Teacher." The
Wonderful Word (New York) 12:3 (December 1919): 114-18.
Reprinted from Scripture Truth, London. Blavatsky as seen by
Coleman, Lillie, and the Illustrated Times of London obituary of 1891.
May God use this brief article of warning against this subtilty of Satan
nd to deliver many who are already ensnared."
095. Praed, Rosa Campbell. Affinities. A Romance of To-day. London:
Richard Bentley & Son, 1885. Vol. 1: 255 pp. Vol. 2: 259 pp.
Rept. London: George Routledge & Sons, 1886. 319 pp.
Captures the London season of 1884 when Theosophy became the
age. As one of the characters in this novel exclaims, "It was spiritualism
nd the planchette till that got vulgar. One day it is mesmerism and
/ill-power, another thought-reading; and now India and America have set
le fashion to a school of occultists." Features the leading Theosophists
linly disguised. Mme. Tamvaco is H.P.B. "She might have been either
f Asiatic or American origin, for in her physiognomy there was a sort
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
of combination of the Oriental type and that of the American Indian...Sh
might have been sixty but looked younger. Her features were decisive!
yet delicately cut, and full of individuality." Her conversations o
philosophy and life, and the warning she provides to one of the character
are central to the development of the plot.
1096. "The Prophetess of the Buried Tea-Cup." The Pall Mall Gazette
May 9, 1891, p. 1.
"It is not possible to doubt that the strange, mysterious woma
who has now found, let us hope, the blessed Nirvana of the creed sh
preached, was one of the most remarkable women of oi
generation....She started an impulse that was felt from West to East b
beginning a new miracle-religion at the end of the nineteenth century/
1097. Pryse, James Morgan. ["Mr. Pryse’s Article of 1897/
Theosophy 12 (September 1897): 314-16. Rept. in The Canadia
Theosophist 7:11 (January 15, 1927): 240-42.
Criticizes Mead and Besant for their editorial work on The Seen
Doctrine. A.E.S. Smythe when reprinting it in the Canadian Theosophl
described it as "being the original source of the various charges made i
connection with changes made in the text of the Third Edition of 77
Secret Doctrine."
1098.------- . "An Important Statement by Mr. J.M. Pryse." 77
Canadian Theosophist 7:7 (September 1926): 140-41. Rept. in 77
Messenger (Chicago) 14:6 (November 1926): 125. Rept. in 77
Theosophical Review (London), November 1926. Rept. in tl
Proceedings oftheBlavatsky Association 3, Mar. 1927, pp. 25-2'
"As I was for four years in the London headquarters, had char£
of the printing office, and printed the revised Secret Doctrine, I natural]
had every opportunity to know the facts." Reviews the editorial woi
revising the first edition of the book. "No changes were made by M
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 321
Vlead or by Mrs. Besant except such as should have been made in the
>riginal manuscript before printing."
[099.--------. "Mr. Pryse’s Statement." Letter to the Editor, The
Canadian Theosophist, January 15, 1927, pp. 245-48.
Pryse retracts his 1897 statement in Theosophy on the third edition
>f The Secret Doctrine, "in which my indignant pen, dipped in partisan
ancor, put down as facts certain assertations that had been whispered
ibout as coming from an ‘occult’ authority." Recounts events leading to
he decision to publish the work in four volumes, but says there "never
vas a fourth volume, and the third volume was to have been the first
volume."
1 0 0 .--------. "Why The Secret Doctrine was Revised." The Canadian
Theosophist 8:1 (March 15, 1927): 13-14.
"Though she had great literary ability she was handicapped by
laving to write in an acquired language, so that her English is by no
neans faultless." Documents instances where the English of the S.D.
ould be improved, "without the slightest detriment to its occult
cachings," and indicates the extent of Mead’s editing.
1 0 1 .--------. "The Rings of H.P.B." The Canadian Theosophist 8:6
(August 15, 1927): 112-13.
Whereabouts of three rings, "two talismanic and one merely a
inger ornament." Pryse says H.P.B.’s own "magic" ring went to Annie
tesant, the second "magic" ring worn by Judge went to G.R.S. Mead.
Tie third, ajeweller’s copy of H.P.B.’s ring made for Mrs. Besant, went
3Judge.
1 0 2 .--------. "The Third Volume of The Secret Doctrine." The
Canadian Theosophist 8:6 (August 15, 1927): 113-15.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Quotes Bertram Keightley’s statement in item 946 that the materia
for the third volume of The Secret Doctrine was H.P.B.’s projected firs
volume, but Pryse declares that "she had not ever begun to write a fourtl
volume."
1103.--------. "Isis and The Voice of the Silence." The Canadiai
Theosophist 8:7 (September 15, 1927): 146-48.
The literary standards of both works examined syntactically
"Despite its literary defects, the Voice is the most inspiring book in th
English language."
1104.------- . "Comments and Memorabilia." The Canadian Theosophis
8:11 (January 15, 1928): 264-66.
Takes on some of the critics of his statements about The Secre
Doctrine, and tells something about his standing at the Londo:
headquarters during H.P.B.’s time. Includes two letters from Blavatsk
to him.
1105.------- . "Memorabilia of H.P.B." The Canadian Theosophist 16:
(March 15, 1935): 1-5. Rept. N.p., n.d. 12 pp.
Psychic experiences relating to H.P.B. Pryse and his brother Joh
started the Aryan Theosophical Press in New York in 1889, and went o
to develop the H.P.B. Press in London the next year.
1106.--------. "No Missing Volumes of The Secret Doctrine." Th
Canadian Theosophist 20:3 (May 15, 1939): 73-77. Rept. in Th
Theosophist 60:12 (September 1939): 516-21.
"As a former member of the London Headquarters staff an
manager of the H.P.B. Press I assert emphatically that the three volume
of The Secret Doctrine, as published, are the whole of that work. N
portion of it was suppressed or destroyed." Adds the statement of hi
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 323
>rother John Pryse, who typed out the material for the third volume of
he S.D., and who says, "The manuscript was in H.P.B.’s well known
landwriting."
[107.--------. "Those Two Non-Existent Volumes." The Canadian
Theosophist 20:9 (November 15, 1939): 279.
[108.--------. "The Myth of Jesus." The Canadian Theosophist 21:5
(July 15, 1940): 134-37.
H.P.B. on Jesus. Pryse, who had rejected the doctrines of
Christianity with "disgust and horror," was prompted by H.P.B. to search
>ut the esoteric character of the Gospels.
109. Psaltis, Lina. "Speaking Out: Old Diary Leaves." The Eclectic
Theosophist, Sept. 15, 1972, pp. 2-5.
Calls Olcott’s statements in ODL 3 and 4 derogatory to H.P.B.
jives selected passages.
110. Racowitza, Princess Helene von. "Wie ich mein selbst fand."
Trans, by Bertram Keightley. The Theosophical Review (London)
29 (January 15, 1902): 386-88.
Extracts from Princess von Racowitza’s book of the same title
ublished in Berlin, 1901, presenting a pen-portrait of Mme. Blavatsky,
nd an account of the Lamasery in New York.
1 1 1 .--------. Ch. 38 in An Autobiography. Trans, by Cecil Mar.
London: Constable & Co.; New York: Macmillan, 1910, 1911,
pp. 349-54, 391.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Meetings with H.P.B. in New York in 1878, and later in Londor
"She gave me new life; and indeed I may say without exaggeration thi
she took possession of the age."
1112. Radford, Ruby Lorraine. "Blavatsky: A Century’s Greatei
Occultist." The Theosophist 60:8 (May 1939): 107-16.
Reprinted from True Mystic Science, Minn., Jan.-Feb. 1939, thi
article covers Blavatsky’s appearance at the Eddy homestead in Oct. 187
and the marvels witnessed there; her books, and Hodgson’s investigatioi
"Her books alone should be sufficient proof of the genuineness of he
power to function on planes beyond the physical."
1113. Ranasinghe, C.S. [C.S.R.]. "Blavatsky, Helena Petrovn
(1831-1891)." In The Encyclopaedia of Buddhism, ed by G.I
Malalasekera. Vol. 3. Colombo: Published by the Government <
Ceylon, 1971, pp. 159-63.
A more balanced approach than most in presenting the career (
Mme. Blavatsky, but some errors have crept into this biographical sketcl
She was not "the only daughter of the second wife of Peter Hahn." Beth
on its pronouncements about her knowledge of Buddhism. "Madan
Blavatsky’s familiarity with Tibetan Buddhism as well as with Esoteri
Buddhist practices seems to be beyond all doubt."
1114. Ransom, Josephine. Madame Blavatsky as Occulist. Londoi
Theosophical Publishing House, 1931. 78 pp.
Focuses on H.P.B. the Teacher, with a brief general outline of hi
life, and the philosophical systems she investigated.
1115.--------. "New Light on H.P. Blavatsky." The Theosophis
Feb.-Apr. 1938, pp. 439-43, 516-19, 35-39.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 325
Traits in Blavatsky’s character are illustrated through ’’three
mpressive phases’*
—her ancestry from the Dolgoroukis, "who for
centuries were the ruling dynasty in Russia"; her ability as an organizer
}fjournals, founder of an Esoteric School, and developer of the talents
)f those around her; and her own development of her will transforming
ler from a passive agent for psychic phenemena to a conscious evocator.
1116.--------. "The Secret Doctrine: Its Early History." The
Theosophical World (Adyar), February 1938, pp. 43-44. Rept. in
The American Theosophist 26:7 (July 1938): 161.
The contents of the third volume compared with the original draft
it Adyar; Ransom says it is genuine.
1117.--------. "How The Secret Doctrine Was Written." The
Theosophist, May, June 1938, pp. 153-61, 265-74. Rept. in The
Secret Doctrine. Vol. 1. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1938, pp. 18-36.
Year by year development of the book, including information on
he third volume.
[118.--------. "H.P. Blavatsky: A Sketch of her Life." In The Secret
Doctrine. Vol. 1 . Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1938,
1962, 1971, pp. 13-17. Rept. Wheaton, IL, 1946, 1952; London,
1950.
"She was a true iconoclast—tearing to pieces the wrappings which
L
id the Real from view. But since the majority were attached to the
onventional wrappings, and were unfamiliar with the Real, they attacked
nd reviled H.P.B. for her daring and courage in unveiling what it
eemed blasphemy to reveal."
1 1 9 .--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." In A Short History of the
Theosophical Society (item 219), pp. 27-34.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Blavatsky’s life prior to the founding of the Theosophical Society
as a prelude to Mrs. Ransom’s history of the movement. "H.P.B. enterec
the Spiritualistic movement to explain its phenomena, to expose ifc
frauds, to enlarge its spiritual scope, and to give to it the dignity in tht
world of science which was its due."
1120. Rawson, Albert Leighton. "Two Madame Blavatskys—The
Acquaintance of Madame H.P. Blavatsky with Eastern Countries.'
The Spiritualist (London), April 5, 1878, pp. 70-71. Rept. ir
Theosophical History 3:1 (January 1989): 27-30.
Rawson writes to the editor of the London Spiritualist pointing ou
that there were two female travellers with the same surname—Mme,
Nathalie Blavatsky, who died near Aden, c. 1868, and the H.P. Blavatsk)
of New York, whose "name has been frequently met with in Tripolis
Beirut, Deir el Kamer, Damascus, Jerusalem, and Cairo."
1121.------- . "Mme. Blavatsky. A Theosophical Occult Apology.'
Frank Leslie's Popular Monthly 33:2 (February 1892): 199-208
Rept. in Theosophical History 2:6 (April 1988): 209-20.
Tells of his association with Blavatsky as a fellow-traveller in th<
Mid-East before her arrival in America. Says she studied occultism ii
Cairo, and had tried hashish there and later in New York. Adds hii
observations about the prominent Theosophists he had met—Olcott
Judge, Besant, etc.
1122. Reddy, R. Ranga. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." T
h<
Theosophist 53:1 (October 1931): 50-52.
Brief talk at Adyar, Aug. 12, 1931. Met H.P.B. and Olcott whei
they came to Nellore, north of Madras, to form a branch of the Society
there in May 1882. Says H.P.B. helped start a Sanskrit school there.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 327
1123. Redfem, Thomas H. The Heroic Work and Worth of Mme.
Blavatsky. Hyde, Eng.: Peace Lodge Studies no 4, [1959]. 60 pp.
Rept. as The Work and Worth of Mme. Blavatsky. London:
Theosophical Publishing House, [I960]. 39 pp.
A paper read to the Peace Lodge, Hyde, Cheshire, on Oct. 15th,
md to the Bolton Lodge on Nov. 15, 1959, replying to John Symonds
>iography (item 1167) and reviews on it. "Mme. Blavatsky’s enemies
lave repeatedly fabricated and projected into the public mind a
icurrilously distorted presentation of her nature," and Redfem’s lecture
ittempts to answer this with a standard Theosophical presentation of her
ife stressing her self-sacrifice.
[124. Reigle, David. The Books of Kiu-te or the Tibetan Buddhist
Tantras. San Diego: Wizards Bookshelf, 1983. 6 8 pp.
Claims to have identified H.P.B.’s Books of Kiu-te, from which
he Stanzas of The Secret Doctrine are drawn, in the Tantra division of
he Tibetan Kanjur.
[125.--------. "New Light on the Book of Dyzan.n In Symposium on
H.P. Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine (item 1128), pp. 54-67.
Attempts to locate the Stanzas of Dzyan in the Kalachakra Tantra.
Supplies Sanskrit text and translation.
126. Resta, Enrico. "A Link with H.P.B.—Through Her
Photographer." Theosophical News & Notes (London), April
1942, p. 6 . Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist 23:5 (July 1942):
166-67.
Resta photographed H.P.B. on Jan. 8 , 1889, in his studio in
layswater, London. Describes the sitting in a letter to John Coats, then
5en. Sec. of the T.S. in England, and turns over to the Society the six
late glass negatives taken.
328 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
1127. Rice, Louise. "Madame Blavatsky." Flynn fs Weekly (New York)
May 21, 1927, pp. 244-51.
"The career of this singular woman does not provide us with th*
tales of swindling which are so familiar to those of us who have studies
the criminal in all parts and in all times, but a little consideration of hei
extraordinary history will assure us, though we may have little interest ii
the so-called ‘psychic,’ that here was a woman who used, very neatly
what information she had, and who very cleverly overcame the handicap
of a repulsive personality—in order to hoodwink and bamboozle th<
world." Flynn *s was a magazine of detective fiction.
1128. [Robb, Richard, ed.] Symposium on H.P. Blavatsky *s Secre
Doctrine held at San Diego, California, July 21-22, 1984. Sai
Diego: Wizards Bookshelf, 1984. I ll pp.
Contains items 806, 1125, 1185.
* Rohmer, Sax. See Ward, Arthur Sarsfield
1129. Ross, William Stewart [Saladin]. "Death of Madame Blavatsky.
The Agnostic Journal (London), May 16, 1891. Rept. as "Howai
Agnostic Saw Her." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15, 1891): 311-16. Rept
in item 695.
Meditations on the nature of the late Mme. Blavatsky on the wa;
to the Woking crematorium.
1130. Roszak, Theodore. "Madame Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine." Ch
6 in Unfinished Animal The Aquarian Frontier and the Evolution
of Consciousness. New York: Harper & Row, 1975. Rept
London: Faber & Faber, 1976, pp. 117-25.
"She is surely among the most original and perceptive minds o
her time....Her canvas was gargantuan...myth, ritual, primitive religions
329
mystical literature, esoteric literature, Oriental philosophy, and even a
great deal of offbeat western science."
1131. Roy, Parbati Chum. Ch. 8-11 in From Hinduism to Hinduism.
Calcutta: W. Newman Co., 1896, pp. 36-60.
The author, a Western educated Hindu, met H.P.B. in Daijeeling
in 1882. Her daily routine while a guest at his home is described as well \
as their discussions. Prints five letters from Blavatsky to him (rept. in |
item 347).
1132. Rudyar, Dane. "H.P. Blavatsky, the Trans-Himalayan Occult
Brotherhood, and the Nineteenth Century." Ch. 3 in Occult
Preparations for a New Age. Wheaton, IL: Quest Books, 1975,
pp. 29-48.
Blavatsky’s work in relation to the Masters who initiated the
Hieosophical movement. Reminds the reader that according to the
Mahatma Letters (item 1255) she was chosen as the emissary from the
Masters "after nearly a century of fruitless search."
1133. Russell, Edmund. "As I Knew Her." The Herald of the Star
(London) 5:5 (May 1 1 , 1916): 197-205.
Anecdotes about Blavatsky in London. "Yes she smoked as do all
Russians. She swore in eight languages. It is only wicked in English. I
lave told you she was one of the greatest awakening influences in my
ife. Could I cast her out because she rolled cigarettes?"
1134.--------. "More Recollections of Madame Blavatsky." The Herald
of the Star (London) 6:1 (January 1917): 17-22.
One line commentaries on her character. "She refused to accept
he judgements on her life by those who had no means of understanding
ler."
330 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1135.------- . "Isis Unveiled: Personal Recollections of Madame
Blavatsky." The Occult Review (London), November 1918, pp
260-69. Rept. in Theosophical Outlook (San Francisco), April 26
1919, pp. 129-34.
1136.------- . "The Secret Doctrine: Personal Recollections of Madame
Blavatsky." The Occult Review (London), June 1920, pp. 332-40
Recycles material from items 1133 and 1134, discarding thei:
epigrammatic form.
1137. Ryan, Charles J. "H.P. Blavatsky and her Books." Thi
Theosophical Path (Point Loma, CA) 24:2 (February 1923)
112-21.
Summarizes the philosophical propositions contained in Isi
Unveiled, The Secret Doctrine, Key to Theosophy, and The Voice of th
Silence.
1138.------- . H.P. Blavatsky and the Theosophical Movement. Poir
Loma, CA: Theosophical University Press, 1937. xxi, 370 pp
Rept. Pasadena: Theosophical University Press, 2nd & rev. ed.
1975. 358 pp. Rept. San Diego: Point Loma Publications, 2nd ed
1975. 441 pp.
"So many attempts have been made by misguided persons t
misrepresent her in the eyes of the ill-informed that a brief but authenti
account in handy form of the chief incidents of her life, her ideals, an
her methods, such as has not hitherto been available, may not be out c
place at this time when recent attacks have aroused widespread attentio
to Theosophy." Standard Theosophical biography of Blavatsky from a
American perspective.
331
1139.--------. "Some Notes on The Secret Doctrine especially in regard
to the so-called ‘Third Volume.’" The Theosophical Forum
(Covina, CA) 23:3 (March 1945): 97-112.
Ryan believes that "Although the so-called ‘Third Volume’
contains brief references to some of the topics mentioned by H.P.B. as
the main references of Volumes III and IV, it does not fulfil this promise.
It has no resemblance to the important and profoundly instructive work
which she obviously intended to produce. It is merely a compilation
touched up by Mrs. Besant as she thought best."
1140. "Sacred Masters and Secret Chiefs." Ch. 4 in Ancient Wisdom citid
Secret Sects. Alexandra, VA: Time-Life Books, 1989, pp. 124-41.
"Madame Blavatsky was a widely contradictory character. A
quasi-religious leader, she swore like a sea-cook in three languages. She
was a volatile adventurer who extolled the virtues of a tranquil,
contemplative life. Most of all, she was a tireless—and perhaps sincere-
pursuer of ultimate truth, although she sometimes utterly disregarded
ordinary truths, especially when they pertained to her."
* Saladin. See Ross, William Stewart
1141. Salsini, Barbara. "The Strange Magic of Madame Blavatsky." The
Milwaukee Journal, Sept. 23, 1970, Sec. 1, p. 20.
"Though her credentials were in doubt, there was no question
about the magic of the woman herself." Resume of Blavatsky’s life based
on the paperback reissue of Gertrude Marvin Williams’ Priestess of the
Occult (1211).
1142. Sangharakshita, Bhikshu. Paradox and Poetry in "The Voice ofthe
Silence." Bangalore: The Indian Institute of World Culture, 1958.
18 pp.
332 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Lecture given at the Indian Institute of World Culture, July 1954,
comparing the philosophical position of the Voice with various Buddhist
texts.
1143. Sarada, S. Madame Blavatsky and Soobiah. Adyar: Adyar Lodge
of the Theosophical Society, 1991. i, 22 pp.
Soobiah Chetty’s reminiscences of experiences with Mme.
Blavatsky as told to his next-door neighbor at Adyar. Includes extracts ol
letters from Mme. Blavatsky and the Masters to Chetty.
1144. Saurat, Denis. "Madame Blavatsky." Ch. 3, pt. 1, in Literature
and Occult Tradition. London: G. Bell & Sons, 1930. Rept. Pori
Washington, NY: Kennikat Press, 1966, pp. 67-73.
"We have in Madame Blavatsky a precious witness: she gives in
a genuinely rough state the only material in the great occultist quarry
which was capable of being worked by the poets. What she rejected was,
no doubt, almost totally impossible for the modem mind to assimilate."
1145. Saxon, Elizabeth Lyle. "Madame Blavatsky. Her Opinions and her
Books." The Daily Picayune (New Orleans), Nov. 4, 1877.
A visit to the "Lamasery" in New York, Oct. 1877, just after the
publication of Isis Unveiled. Describes H.P.B. ’s "den," with its blue-glass
windows, palms, stuffed animals, and the author, "stout, weighing about
one hundred and eighty, has wavy brown hair, that she combs plainl)
back without puffs or braids." "I shall long remember with pleasure the
cordial geniality of this woman. Hers is a grand, brave nature, a might)
identity, and feeling its own power, scorns the bonds of the little,
indifferent to the yelping curs."*
* Scrutator. See Old, Walter R.
333
1146. [Sen, Norendranath.] "From India." Lucifer 8:47 (July 15, 1891):
388-89. Rept. in item 695.
Obituary from the Indian Mirror, Calcutta, May 13, 1891, sent
from India by Babula, H.P.B.’s servant.
* Sepharial. See Old, Walter R.
1147. Severs, Elizabeth. "Mme. Blavatsky: A Sketch of Her Life." Ch.
13 in Some Noble Souls. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1910, pp. 265-98.
A digest of Wachtmeister’s Reminiscences and Sinnett’s Incidents.
"This short and very imperfect sketch is meant naturally not for those
who know, and there are many now who know, but for those who are
trying to know, of whom there are still more, and who may be prompted
by it to a further study of Mme. Blavatsky and her teachings."
1148. Sinnett, Alfred Percy. Incidents in the Life of Madame Blavatsky.
London: George Redway; New York: J.W. Bouton, 1886. xii,
324 pp. Rept. New York: Amo Press, 1976. xii, 324. Rept.
London: The Theosophical Publishing Society, 2nd ed. 1913. 236
pp.
The official biography of Mme. Blavatsky "compiled from
information supplied by her relatives and friends." Information on her
early years of childhood and marriage includes statements by her uncle
Gen. R. Fadeyev, her aunt N.A. Fadeyev, and her sister Vera
Zhelihovsky. Chapters 4 to 6 , covering H.P.B.’s return to Russia in 1858
and stay until 1863, are a paraphrasing of Vera’s 1883 Rebus article "The
Truth about H. P. Blavatsky" translated for Sinnett by H.P.B. (item
1227). His narrative contains no reference to the 1851 meeting of her
Indian Teacher in London, but has her arriving in Bombay at the end of
1852, though failing to enter Tibet at that time. A second unsuccessful
attempt is given for 1855/56. "The years 1867 to 1870 if the story of
these could be properly told, would be found by far the most interesting
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
of Mme. Blavatsky’s eventful life," but Sinnett doesn’t tell anything
except that she returned "from the East by a steamer via the then
newly-opened Suez Canal" in 1870. The 1886 edition takes events up to
the beginning of that year and the appearance of the S.P.R. Report. The
1913 edition abridges some of the material and adds a brief note bringing
her life up to May 8 , 1891.
1149.------- . "H.P.B." The Review of Reviews (London) 3:18 (June
1891): 550-57. Rept. in the 1931 ed. of item 695. Rept. in The
Theosophical Forum 25:1 (January 1947): 5-22. Rept. in The
Eclectic Theosophist, July-Oct., 1981, pp. 6-13.
"The world at large has heard too much about Madame Blavatsky,
and has known too little. Her misfortune was that she was interesting to
average newspaper readers, and a grievously inviting subject for average
newspaper writers." Presents a progressive unfoldment of her theosophic
mission, and notes the events that transformed her from the charming
conversationalist he knew in India to the stem "quasipapal" spiritual
teacher of her later years.
1150.--------. "A Word from Mr. Sinnett." Lucifer 8:46 (June 15,
1891): 285-87. Rept. in the 1891 ed. of item 695.
Sinnett supplies the occult explanation for Blavatsky’s sudden
demise. "In such crises she has been rescued at the last moment,
evidently by the exercise of occult power, whereas in the present
occasion, when there was no apparent need for her to die at all, she
closes her eyes and passes away in an instant." Suggests that she had the
opportunity to take advantage of a new vehicle, and speculates about her
past incarnations. "The lifejust over cannot have been that in which she
first began her occult career." Says she was previously a Hindu woman.
1151. Small, W. Emmett. "H.P. Blavatsky’s Influence on Ireland’s
Literary Renaissance." In H.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine
(item 864), 1971, pp. 108-23; 1988, pp. 195-208.
335
Considers the effect of "the germinative powers of Theosophy and
its doctrines which were potent factors" in the Celtic Literary Revival,
especially around AE, George Russell.
1152. Smith, Suzy. "Madame Blavatsky, The High Priestess of Modem
Occultism." Ch. 6 in Reincarnationfor the Millions. Los Angeles:
Sherboume Press, 1967, pp. 44-52.
Life of Blavatsky drawn from item 1211. Nothing about
Blavatsky’s particular ideas about reincarnation or contribution to the
subject.
1153. Smith, Warren Sylvester. "Theosophist Helena Blavatsky." The
Christian Century, August 14, 1963, pp. 1002-5.
"However humiliating the exposure, Madame Blavatsky endured
md continued to win converts—a tribute, perhaps, to the human desire
:o believe in something, or perhaps to something in the woman which
xanscended mere charlatanry." But Besant’s conversion to Theosophy
’tends to make the power of Helena Blavatsky seem more mysterious,
nore potent than ever."
* Solovyov, Vsevolod S. A Modern Priestess of Isis. Cited as item
1913.
A major part of Solovyov’s book covers his relations with Mme.
Jlavatsky in Europe during 1884-86, and will be dealt with in Ch. 8 . But
chapters 26-29 focus on Blavatsky’s efforts in America in the 1870s told
hrough her letters to Alexander Aksakov and share her feelings on the
itate of Spiritualism, the work of the infant Theosophical Society, and the
vriting of Isis Unveiled.
154. "Some Chapters in the Life History of H.P. Blavatsky." The New
Century (Point Loma, CA) 5:4 (December 8 , 1901): 6-7. Rept in
item 1179.
336 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
Chronology "from various sources" on Blavatsky’s life till 1887
1155. Spierenburg, H. J. "Dr. Rudolf Steiner on Helena Petrovm
Blavatsky." Trans, by J.H. Molijin. Theosophical History 1:
(July 1986): 159-74.
Compares Dr. Steiner’s statements about Blavatsky—he
connection to various European and American occult bodies, her work ii
America, the Theosophical Society—with known biographical data of he
life.
1156.------- . "William Butler Yeats on Helena Petrovna Blavatsky.
Trans, by J.H. Molijin. The Eclectic Theosophist, Nov.-Dee
1986, pp. 2-4.
A compilation from Yeats’ Memoirs, Autobiographies, and Vol
1 of the 1986 Clarendon Press edition of his Collected Letters,
1157.--------, and Daniel van Egmond. "The Succession of H.P
Blavatsky: A Documentary History." Theosophical History 3:7-
(July-Oct. 1991): 200-208.
Mme. Blavatsky’s official position in the Theosophical Society am
the successorship of her Esoteric School.
1158. Spiritual Vibrations by HP, Blavatsky through Arthur A, Ford a
Medium to The Open Circle, New York: H.P.B. Publishers, 1926
viii, 83 pp.
Blavatsky breaks the promise made by Olcott and herself not t
speak through mediums after their death (The Theosophist, March 1883
"Under The Shadow of Great Names"), is penalized for it by losing he
sparkle and fire, and has to speak and speak and speak on psychi
development.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 337
1159. "Spiritualism in Cairo." The Spiritual Magazine (London), April
1872, p. 176.
"A Society of Spiritualists has been formed in Cairo, Egypt, under
;he direction of Madame Blavatsky, a Russian lady, assisted by several
mediums. Seances are held twice a week, namely, on Tuesday and Friday
evenings, to which members alone are admissible. It is intended to
establish, in connection with the Society, a lecture room, and a library of
Spiritualistic and other works, as well as a journal under the title La
Revue Spirite du Caire, to appear on the 1st and 15th each month."
1160. Stead, William T. "Madame Blavatsky." The Review of Reviews
(London): 3:18 (June 1891): 548-50. Rept. in the 1931 ed. of item
695.
The editor’s introduction to Sinnett’s biographical sketch, item
1149. "She widened the horizon of the mind, and she brought something
)f the infinite sense of vast, illimitable mystery which characterises some
)f the Eastern religions into the very heart of Europe in the nineteenth
century. To have done all this, and to have done it almost single-handed,
n face of the almost insuperable obstacles interposed by her own defects,
enders comprehensible the theory that Madame Blavatsky had help the
vorld could neither see nor take away."
L
161. Steinbacher, John. Robert Francis Kennedy: The Man, the
Mysticism, the Murder. Los Angeles: Impact Publishers, 1968,
pp. 4-9.
Based on the request of Sirhan Sirhan, Sen. Kennedy’s assassin,
or a copy of Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine while in prision, Steinbacher
lepicts her life as "one of the most evil and immoral women who ever
ived."
[162. Stewart, C. Nelson. "Madame Blavatsky."Envoy (London), May-
June 1959, p. 13.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Madame Blavatsky in India and the notable Indians drawn tc
her—Swami Dayananda, Norendranath Sen, T. Subba Row.
1163. Sturdy, E. T. "The ‘Third’ Volume." Letter to the Editor
Canadian Theosophist, July 15, 1939, p. 152.
"I can entirely endorse what Mr. Pryse has written [on The Secre
Doctrine] and I was living at Avenue Road at all the material times an<
present when H.P.B. died. Mr. Bertram Keightley with whom I am ii
constant correspondence in India, has written in terms which confim
what Mr. Pryse has written."
1164. Subramania Iyer, N.P. "Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky." Thi
Theosophist 53:1 (October 1931): 52-54.
Short talk at Adyar, Aug. 12, 1931. Not to be confused with th<
Hon. S. Subramania Iyer, who was a member of the Madras legislature
the speaker was a student at the Madras Christian College at the time o
the 1884 exposure, and collected 300 signatures from the students ii
support of Mme. Blavatsky.
1165. Suntook, Sohrab H. In the Sacred Memory of H.P.B. (Madam<
Blavatsky). [Bombay: The Author, c. 1911.] 11 pp.
A collection of extracts from various published sources abou
H.P.B., as well as notes taken at talks by Annie Besant and C.W
Leadbeater referring to her.
1166. Sutcliffe, G.E. The Life-Work of H.P. Blavatsky. [Bombay: Th
Author, 1902.] 8 pp.
Suggests that "In estimating the importance of Madami
Blavatsky’s work, it is instructive to look upon it from a particula
standpoint—its suitableness to the age in which she lived."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 339
1167. Symonds, John. Madame Blavatsky, Medium and Magician.
London: Odhams Press, 1959. 254 pp. Rept. as The Lady with the
Magic Eyes: Madame Blavatsky, Medium and Magician. New
York: Thomas Yoseloff, 1960. 254 pp. Rept. as In the Astral
Light: The Life of Madame Blavatsky—Medium and Magician.
London: Panther Books, 1969. 207 pp.
Paraphrased from Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, People from the
Other World, Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis, and standard
rheosophical sources, this biography begins in Blavatsky’s 43rd year with
ler meeting Olcott on Oct. 14, 1874. Hodgson’s plan of the "Occult
*oom" at Adyar is reproduced, though his report is discussed from
;econd-hand sources, but Symonds has read Mme. Coulomb’s pamphlet.
r
sis Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine are discussed in the space of a
>aragraph each. Reviewed by items 747, 809, 1123.
[168.--------. "Madame Blavatsky." Man, Myth & Magic (Bath, Eng.)
no. 10 (1970): 286-89.
A digest of item 1167 for the popular illustrated encyclopedia of
he occult.
i169. "10 Famous Women Picked for N. Y. Hall of Fame. nLos Angeles
Times, Mar. 27, 1935.
Nominated were Louisa May Alcott, Susan B. Antony, Helena
’etrovna Blavatsky, Sarah Josepha Buell Hale, Lucretia Mott, Sacajawea
the Pocahontas of the Pacific," Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Uice McLellan Bimey, and Elizabeth E. Hutter. The article was
llustrated by portraits of Blavatsky and Susan B. Antony. The New York
7mes of Mar. 27, 1935, p. 19, c. 5, gives the entire list of 76 nominees,
"hree men were elected Nov. 2nd—William Penn, Simon Newcomb, and
Irover Cleveland.
170. Terry, William. "Obituary Editorial." The Harbinger of Light
(Melbourne), June 1891, pp. 4421-22.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
H.P.B.’s obituary by the editor of the Spiritualist Harbinger O
j
Light, who was one of the earliest members of the T.S. in Australia.
1171. The Theosophical Society (Adyar). Helena Petrovna Blavatsky.
[Adyar, India: The Theosophical Society, c. 1980.] 4 pp.
Information leaflet on Mme. Blavatsky distributed by th<
Theosophical Society, giving the main events in her life and a digest oi
her phenomenal abilities. Reprints "The Golden Stairs”by Blavatsky, anc
lists her literary output published by the Theosophical Publishing House
Cover features a colorized photograph.
1172. The Theosophical Society in America. HP. Blavatsky and Hei
Writings. [Wheaton, IL: The Theosophical Society in America, c
1968, c. 1981, c. 1989.] 7 pp.
Brochure on Blavatsky’s writings issued by the American Sectioi
of the Theosophical Society stressing the key ideas in Isis Unveiled an<
The Secret Doctrine. "Perhaps the true measure of the enduring worth o
the writings of H.P. Blavatsky is the simple fact that they are still ii
print, that her books are being bought every day, here and in the farthes
parts of the globe, and that they are still being read and studied."
1173. "The Theosophical Society." Hartford Daily Times, Dec. 2, 1878
Rept. as "The Lamasery At New York." The Theosophist, Jan.
Mar. 1934, pp. 418-28, 645-50. Rept. as "A Visit to Madami
Blavatsky." The Canadian Theosophist 39:2 (May-June 1958)
25-32.
The "Lamasery" in New York, Col. Olcott and H.P.B.’
apartment at 302 West 47th Street, with a description of the rooms
phenomena produced by Blavatsky, conversation about the Arya Samaj
and the proposed journey of the Theosophists to India. The Theosophh
reprints the article from H.P.B.’s press Scrapbook 4 (now 8 ), with
color facsimile (reduced) of the title page of Scrapbook 3 mentioned b
the writer. In the Canadian Theosophist it is reproduced from th
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 341
Canadian Illustrated News of Montreal, Jan. 4, 1879, where the story
vas picked up from the Hartford Daily Times.
L
174. "Theosophy. Cult of the Occult." Time, July 19, 1968, p. 59.
Quotes Truman Capote’s televised comment that among
Jlavatsky’s teachings "was a theory of how you could undermine the
norale of a country and create a vacuum for revolution by systematically
issassinating a series of prominent people," and presents her career as "a
arge and lusty adventuress" who "was accused in 1885 by the Society for
’sychical Research in London of fraud, forgery, and even spying for the
Tzar." The Hon. Sec. of the London S.P.R. wrote to Time disclaiming
his statement but it was never published by the magazine (see Ch. 8 ).
175. "Theosophy in New York. Facts About Mme. Blavatsky, Her
Powers and Religion." The World (New York), Sept. 12, 1886,
p. 13.
Remembers Mme. Blavatsky in New York, and the prominent
eople who frequented her apartment. "She explicitly disavowed any
elief in Spiritualism in the common sense or any claims to mediumistic
ower. 4
It is my own spirit and not the spirits of those who have gone
rom earth,’ she declared, ‘that does these things. Whatever powers I
ossess are simply the result of the complete power of my will that I have
cquired.’"
176. Thurston, Fr. Herbert. "Madame Blavatsky and the Jubilee of
Theosophy." The Month (London), January 1926, pp. 1-13.
Fr. Thurston (1856-1939), a long-time Catholic writer on the
aranormal, takes a few choice swipes at Blavatsky for her comments on
ie Jesuits.
1 7 7 .--------. "The Foundress of Theosophy." Studies (Dublin) 20:79
(September 1931): 421-35.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Reviews the attention given in the press to Blavatsky on tin
centenary of her birth. "My contention in the present paper is that
whatever may be said, for or against the reality of her phenomena
H.P.B.—it is convenient to adopt this familiar designation used by hei
fellow Theosophists—was absolutely untrustworthy in all her statement:
of fact."
1178. Tindall, William York. "Susan Unveiled." Ch. 5 in D.H
Lawrence & Susan His Cow. New York: Columbia Universit;
Press, 1939. Rept. New York: Cooper Square Publications, 1972
pp. 124-61.
Charts the influence of Blavatsky on Lawrence’s writing. "Mrs
Lawrence has informed me that her husband read and delighted in all o
Mme. Blavatsky’s works and that, as he read, he used to smile at th
‘mundane egg,’ an occult object of which, judging by the number o
allusions to it in their works, neither Mme. Blavatsky nor Lawrence eve
tired." Believes that Lawrence like Yeats found from Blavatsky’s writing
"that the myths and symbols of all lands are keys to the same reality."
1179. Tingley, Katherine, ed. Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. Point Loma
CA: The Woman’s International Theosophical League, 1921. 8
pp.
Articles about Blavatsky by Judge, and tributes by some of he
pupils resident at Point Loma, along with quotations from her works
Contains items 8 6 6 , 925, 926, 931, 1154.
1180.--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. A Brief Sketch of her Lii
and of her Mission." In The Voice of the Soul. Point Loma, CA
Woman’s International Theosophical League, 1928, pp. 87-113
Thoughts of a general nature on Blavatsky’s life and missior
which according to Tingley was "to bring home to man the consciousnes
of his essential divinity."
Works About H.P. BlcivatsJcy 343
1181. Tucker, W.J. "Great Leaders of the Occult: Dr. Rudolf Steiner
and Helena P. Blavatsky." The Modern Mystic (London) 1:3
(March 1937): 43, 46-47.
Horoscopes of Steiner and Blavatsky comparing certain identical
'eatures, and corresponding events in her life with her chart.
L
182. Tweedale, Violet. "East End Days and Nights." Ch. 4 in Ghosts
I Have Seen and Other Psychic Experiences. London: Herbert
Jenkins, 1920, pp. 56-66.
Passing mention of her visit to Blavatsky in London. Says H.P.B.
old her that Besant was "destined to take a very great part in the future
fheosophical movement" on the first night she came as an inquirer.
L
183. "Uncanny Powers of Mme. Blavatsky." In Into the Unknown, ed.
by Will Bradbury. Pleasantville, N.Y.: Reader’s Digest
Association, 1981, pp. 194-95.
Attempts to explain the attraction of this "plain-faced...sloppy
Iresser...bad-tempered...drug user and inveterate chain smoker" by
4oncure Conway’s quote, "It’s all glamour...People think they see what
hey do not see. That is the whole of it," given in items 772, 773. Claims
hat when she died in 1891 Theosophy numbered 100,000 adherents.
.184. "The Useful Astral Light." The New York Times, Apr. 29, 1889,
p. 5. Rept. as "Dr. Keightley Speaks." The Theosophist 10 (July
1889): 595-601.
Interview with Archibald Keightley on life at the Theosophical
lousehold at 17 Lansdowne Rd., London, and Mme. Blavatsky’s daily
chedule of writing from 6:30 in the morning till 7 at night. Is quoted as
aying that the third volume of The Secret Doctrine is in MS. ready to be
;iven to the printer.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1185. Van Mater, John. "A Secret Doctrine Bibliography." 1
Symposium on H.P. Blavatskyfs Secret Doctrine (item 1128), pp
7-10. Rept. in Sunrise 34:3 (Feb.-Mar. 1985): 76-82.
In the two volumes of The Secret Doctrine Blavatsky quotes fron
about 1200 authors and texts, Van Mater indicates how she utilized 19tl
century sources to obtain these.
1186. Van Mater, Kirby. "The Writing of The Secret Doctrine." Sunris
(Pasadena, CA) 25:2 (November 1975): 54-62. Revised in Ai
Introduction to The Secret Doctrine. Pasadena: Theosophies
University Press, 1988, [11 pp.].
The evolution of Blavatsky’s major opus attributed to th
assimilation of earlier Theosophical teachings and the demand for a mor
complete exposition of the philosophy.
1187.--------. "Historical Perspective." In H.P. Blavatsky to th
American Conventions, 1888-1891. Pasadena: Theosophies
University Press, 1979, pp. 47-69.
Elaborates on the context of Blavatsky’s letters of greeting read s
the four American Theosophical Conventions of 1888 to 1891. Chronicle
Blavatsky’s "Theosophical endeavors" according to three periods
America, 1873-1878, India, 1879-1885, and Europe, 1885 until her deat
in 1891.
1188.--------. "The Writing and Publishing of The Secret Doctrine." I
Report of Proceedings of the Secret Doctrine Centenary (itei
962), pp. 73-87.
Circumstances relating to issuing The Secret Doctrine in America
with a survey of the events that led to its publication. Establishes the dat
of Nov. 1 , 1888, for the appearance of Vol. 1 in New York, and suggesl
that of Dec. 28 for Vol. 2. The bill for binding the 1,000 sets (2,00
books) sent from England was $619.34.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 345
* Ver Planck, Julia Campbell. See Keightley, Julia
189. Vest, Paul M. "Madame Blavatsky—The First Theosophist."Fate
(Evanston, IL) 4:7 (October 1951): 29-35.
Presents "the strange story of one of the most controversial figures
/ho ever lived." Vest states that "In reply to those who have contended
lat Madame Blavatsky was never in Tibet, no less an authority than the
>alai Lama has attested in writing that 'Madame Blavatsky spent at least
3ur years at Shigatze, the Lamasery of the Teshu Lama of Tibet.’"
190. Vonnegut, Kurt, Jr. "The Mysterious Madame Blavatsky."
McCall's 97:6 (March 1970): 67, 142-44.
"At a minimum: Madame Blavatsky brought America wisdom
om the East, which it very much needed, which it still very much
eeds. If she garbled or invented some of that wisdom, she was doing no
orse than other teachers have done. The only greed I can detect in the
oman is a greed to be believed. So I say, ‘Peace and honor to Madame
lavatsky.’ I am charmed and amused that she was an American citizen
>ra little while. That was a bureaucratic detail, of course. Bizarre as she
lay have been, she was something quite lovely: she thought all human
sings were her brothers and sisters—she was a citizen of the world."
191. "Voyage with Mme. Blavatsky." Philadelphia Inquirer, May 11,
1891. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist 70:6 (Jan.-Feb. 1990):
121-23.
"An entertaining story of an experience" with Mme. Blavatsky told
/ a passenger of the steamer that took her and Col. Olcott from Bombay
Colombo early in May 1880.
[92. Wachtmeister, Countess Constance. "The Countess Wachtmeister
Defends Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Religio-Philosophical
Journal, May 5, 1888, p. 6 .
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Responds to item 767. "I attribute Mr. Emmette Coleman’
calumnies to personal spite, a very ignoble feeling indeed. I emphaticall
deny the accusation that Madame Blavatsky makes use of intoxicatin
liquors, for she has never ceased to hate the very smell of wine from ht
earliest childhood, as I have heard from many."
1193.------- . "Madame Blavatsky’s Probation." Letter to the Editoi
Light (London), July 20, 1889, p. 351.
Replies to Colenso’s questioning the length of Blavatsky’s stay i
Tibet in item 768. The Countess says, "again and again she [H.P.B.] h*
repeated to me that she was only three years in Thibet."
1194.--------. "At Wurzburg and Ostende." Lucifer 8:46 (June 1i
1891): 282-85. Rept. in item 695.
Countess Wachtmeister stopped at Wurzburg on her way to Ron
in Nov. 1885 to pay her respects to Mme. Blavatsky and ended stayir
on as her companion until May 1886, returning to join her at Osten<
from Nov. to April 1887. The Countess came to England in Aug. 18$
to share life at the Theosophical household at 17 Lansdowne Rd.
London. Her memorial tells of life with Blavatsky and tries to explain h
<
character. "At times such a bright childish nature seemed to beam arour
her, and a spirit ofjoyous fun would sparkle in her whole countenanc
and cause the most winning expression that I have ever seen on a hum;
face."
1195.--------. Reminiscences ofH.P. Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrin
Edited by a Fellow of the Theosophical Society. Londo
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. 162 pp. Rept. Wheato
IL: Quest Books, 1976, 1989. xv, 141 pp.
In the original edition, pp. 7-86, are the Countess’s reminiscenc
of life with H.P.B. at Wurzburg and Ostende, 1885-87, during t]
appearance of the S.P.R. Committee Report and Blavatsky’s remarkab
comeback. Appendix I, pp. 89-129, features observations by vario
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 347
irominent Theosophists on the writing of The Secret Doctrine, and
ncludes items 702, 885, 919, 934, 941, 946, 1228. Appendix 2, pp.
33-62, is made up of "Extracts from Articles, Interviews, etc. that have
ppeared in the Public Press." Countess Wachtmeister (1838-1910), was
be widow of the Swedish and Norwegian minister to the Court of St.
ames.
1 9 6 .--------. ["Theosophical Reminiscences."] In the Report of
Proceedings, Eighth Annual Convention, San Francisco, April 22-
231894. New York: American Section, Theosophical Society, pp.
28-32. Rept. in The Theosophic Messenger (Chicago) 12:2
(November 1910): 75-76.
Narrates Blavatsky’s meeting with her Indian Teacher in London
i 1851, and her subsequent three years in Tibet. "She told me those
iree years were of very great trial to her." After her probation was over,
be was sent to Egypt, and later when her training was completed, she
'as told to go to America where "she would find a man by the name of
rtcott."
197. Wade, Joseph M., ed. Posthumous Memoirs of Helena Petrovna \
Blavatsky. Boston: Published by Jos. M. Wade, 1896. 176 pp. I
"Dictated from the spirit-world, upon the typewriter, independent f
f all human contact, under the supervision of G.W.N. Yost.";
ommunications of a general nature with emphasis on the occult
tplanations behind certain events in Blavatsky’s life. Has Blavatsky
iviting the Coulombs to come to Adyar (from where?) to take charge of
Dusehold duties, even though the couple had already joined the j
heosophists uninvited at Bombay in 1880. Contains no reference to the \
scisive meeting of her Master in London in 1851, or her forming a
piritualist Society in Cairo in 1872, although the whole tenor of the
^ok upholds the reality of spirit communication. Condemns the
achinations of Judge.
348 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1198. Wadia, K.J.B. Work and Wisdom of H.P.B. [Bombay: Th
Author, c. 1908.] 14 pp.
A White Lotus Day Address.
1199. Ward, Arthur Sarsfield [Sax Rohmer, pseud.]. "Madam
Blavatsky." Ch. 6 in The Romance of Sorcery. London: Methue
& Co.; New York: E.P. Dutton, 1914, 1924, 1927, pp. 235-63
Rept. New York: Causeway Books, 1973.
A more interesting, if not more sensational presentation of th
career of Mme. Blavatsky. Believes that Solovyov’s Modern Priestess c
Isis has paid her "no finer tribute."
1200. Webb, James. "The Masters and the Messiah." Ch. 3 in Th
Occult Underground. La Salle, IL: Open Court Publishing Co
1974, pp. 79-111.
Half about Blavatsky, half about C.W. Leadbeater.
1201. West, Geoffrey. "The Occultist of the Nineteenth Century." Th
Aryan Path (Bombay) 5:5 (May 1934): 267-273.
Concludes that Wm. E. Coleman with his charge of plagiarisi
"achieved the maximum air with the minimum actuality of precision.
Supplies examples.
1202. Westbrook, Richard Brodhead. "Reminiscences of Origin
American Theosophists." The Religio-Philosophical Jourm
(Chicago), Sept. 14, 1889, p. 2, 8 .
Westbrook, one of the original councillors of the Theosophic
Society, recalls his experiences with Blavatsky and Olcott some fourtec
years earlier in Philadelphia ("she was certainly at that time a mo
captivating woman"), and in New York, where he believes an impostui
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 349
was arranged by Blavatsky at a gathering at his home. Item 839 reprints
tiis article indicating certain discrepancies. Like many early members of
the Theosophical Society he returned to the fold of Spiritualism after the
publication of Isis Unveiled.
1203. Wheeler, J. Mazzini. "Theosophy and Madame Blavatsky." The
Freethinker (London), July 7, 1889, pp. 257-58.
Oriental ideas are influencing the West, and the spread of
rheosophy is an example of this. Gives Blavatsky’s personal history as
presented by Arthur Lillie and Mme. Coulomb. Hopes Mrs. Besant has
examined these allegations.
L204. "When H.P. Blavatsky Passed in London, 1891." Theosophy in
Australia 19:8 (August 1954): 7-8. Rept. in The American
Theosophist 44:5 (May 1956): 89, 91-92.
Col. Olcott interviewed in the Sydney Daily Telegraph, May 11,
L891, on H.P.B.’s passing during his lecture tour of Australia. Speaks of
he characteristics of his late colleague.
[205. White, John. "The Secret Doctrine of Theosophy." Ch. 19 in Pole
Shift. Garden City, NY: Doubleday & Co., 1980, pp. 324-35.
Blavatsky’s psychic history, "richly colorful and controversial,"
s briefly alluded to. Chapter focuses on statements in The Secret
doctrine—"a rich source of references to ancient traditions that claim to
tave maintained data about the cataclysmic history of our planet"—that
peak of an axial inversion. According to the author, she "makes no
irophecies of imminent disaster...but she does maintain that polar shifts
re inevitable; moreover, that they are necessary events in the evolution
>
fhumanity."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1206. Whyte, Herbert. H.P. Blavatsky: An Outline ofHer Life. Londor
The Lotus Journal, 1909. 60 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophic*
Publishing House, 1920. 39 pp.
Composed from Sinnett’s Incidents, Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves
and Countess Wachtmeister’s Reminiscences, with a Preface by C.W
Leadbeater.
1207. Wilder, Alexander. "Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the Editoi
Religio-Philosophical Journal, May 26, 1888, p. 6 .
Responds to Coleman’s charges in item 767. "I saw her often i
1877 and 1878, and never dreamed of her use of anything alcoholic. Th
facts were as General Doubleday states. She would make the air bln
sometimes, and she sometimes used oblique quotations from the Hoi
Scriptures....For me the sense in what she had to say, was all that I care
for."
1208.--------. "How Isis Unveiled was Written." The Word (New Yorl
7:2 (May 1908): 77-87.
Wilder explains his editorial function with Blavatsky’s first bool
that he reported unfavorably on it to the publisher, J.W. Bouton, "I state
that the manuscript was the product of great research, and that so far i
related to current thinking there was a revolution in it, but I added thj
I deemed it too long for remunerative publishing," and disposes of son
of the theories about the authorship of the book. "Anybody who wj
familiar with her, would, upon reading the first volume of Isis Unveilec
not have any difficulty in recognizing her as the author."
1209.--------. "Letters from Madame Blavatsky." The Word (New Yorl
7:3 (June 1908): 145-55.
Two letters to Wilder in the fall of 1876 relating to the editing <
Isis. In one, she says of herself, "I am a Tibetan Buddhist, you knov
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 351
ind pledged myself to keep certain things secret." The July 1908 Word,
>p. 212-13, reproduces a facsimile of one of the letters. V
2 1 0 .--------. "Madame Blavatsky in India." The Word (New York) 7:4
(July 1908): 203-11.
Long letter to Wilder from Mme. Blavatsky in Agra, dated Apr.
'8 , 1879, telling of their travels in North India and places visited—Karli
aves, Allahabad, Benares, Cawnpore, the Taj Mahal at Agra, Jaipur,
nd Rajputana.
211. Williams, Gertrude Marvin. Priestess of the Occult: Madame
Blavatsky. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1946. 345 pp. Rept. New
York: Lancer Books, [c. 1970]. 384 pp.
This influential debunking biography that everyone copies from
roves a fact-checker’s nightmare. Blavatsky is depicted as expending so
luch time and energy sustaining the continuous fraud of Theosophy that
ery little space can be devoted to acknowledging the vast and also
ime-consuming literary output she is famous for. Isis Unveiled is
urveyed in a paragraph and dismissed as "the expression of a brilliant
nd frustrated woman rebelling against the humdrum routine of life." She
tarted a magazine, The Theosophist, in India in 1879, editing it for six
ears and turning it into a successful organ for the promulgation of
Eastern philosophy to the West, but nothing is told of its contents or her
writing in it. The Secret Doctrine gets a paragraph but only to serve as
means of introducing Coleman’s criticism of it. Notice is given that she
funded another journal in London in 1887, editing it for almost five
ears, yet there is no indication of what it contained. Nor would anyone
now from this biography that Mme. Blavatsky supported herself by
writing enough for the Russian papers to fill two hefty volumes.
Reviewed by items 746, 805.
212. Wilson, Colin. "The Nineteenth Century—Magic and
Romanticism." Ch. 6 in The Occult: A History. New York:
352 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centui
Random House, 1971, pp. 330-39. Rept. Frogmore, St. Alban:
Mayflower Books, 1973, pp. 430-41.
Brief biographical notice of Blavatsky.
1213. Windust, Esther. "Personal Reminiscences of H.P.B." Trans, h
Ruha van Walchren. Eirenicon (Hyde, Eng.), Winter 1950, pj
1-3. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist 32:3 (May 1951): 33-3!
Last years of H.P.B. at Avenue Road, London. Written f<
Theosofische Beweging, Rotterdam, Holland, 1938.
1214. Witte, Count Serguey Yulyevich de. "My Youth and Ear
Childhood." Ch. 1 in The Memoirs of Count Witte. Trans. I
Abraham Yarmolinsky. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Page «
Co.; London: Heineman, 1921. Rept. New York: Howard Ferti;
1967, pp. 4-10. Retranslated by Sidney Harcave. Armonk, N.Y
M.E. Sharpe, 1990, pp. 7-11.
Witte (1849-1915), who was ten years old when his famous cous;
returned to Russia in 1859, transmits the family gossip about her. T1
validity of his account has been questioned by Theosophists, especially
Harris (item 866), and Endersby (809), since, among other things, he h;
Blavatsky founding the Theosophical Society in England, and settling
Paris and dying. But he still admits that "she had, no doubt, a literal
talent. The Moscow editor, Katkov, famous in the annals of Russi:
journalism, spoke to me in the highest terms of praise about her litera
gifts, as evidenced in the tales entitled ‘From the Jungles of Hindustar
which she contributed to his magazine, The Russian Messenger (Russ
Vyestnik)."
1215. Witte, Count W.S. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky—a Martyr." 71
Tribune Magazine, Sept. 20, 1925, p. 3.
Not to be confused with Count Serguey Y. Witte, the statesma
This is an overview of Blavatsky’s life.
Vorks About H.P. Blavatsky 353
216. Wolfe-Murray, H.O. "A Link with the Early Days of the
Theosophical Society." The TheosophicMessenger 11:5 (February
1910): 277-80.
The recent death of Major-Gen. Henry Rhodes Morgan recalls the
lurry caused by H.P.B.’s visit to his family at Ootacamund in the Nilgiri
fills. It resulted in a "distinct coolness" toward them by the Anglo-Indian
ommunity. Illustrated with a photo of Morgan.
217. Wolff, Hannah M. "Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, The
Better Way (Cincinnati, OH). Rept. in The Two Worlds
(Manchester, Eng.), Dec. 11, 1891, pp. 671-72. Rept. in The
Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), Jan. 2, 1892, pp. 501-2.
Mrs. Wolff tells of meeting Blavatsky in her pre-theosophic days
a 1874 at the Working Women’s Home on Elizabeth Street in New
'ork, and later at an apartment she shared "with a party ofjournalists of
ather Bohemian tendencies, two gentlemen and a lady." Says Blavatsky
rged her to smoke hashish and had tried opium. This letter originally
ppeared in a Spiritualistjournal so obscure that only one issue is known
3 survive. Gertrude Marvin Williams who uses the story backs it up by
upplying dates for its appearance in the Spiritualist press. Unfortunately
number of the journals she names were not in existence during the
ears she cites.
218. "Wonders of the Circle. Four Languages Spoken by Materialized
Spirits." The Sun (New York), Oct. 29, 1874.
Earliest locatable reference to Mme. Blavatsky in the American
ress, referred to here as "Madam Blowtskey." The dispatch mentions the
pirit of a Michalko Guezidze appeared at the Eddy farmhouse at
Jutland, Vermont, and spoke to her in Georgian.
219. Woods, Charlotte E. "Memories of H.P.B." Theosophical News
& Notes (London), November 1937, pp. 4-5. Rept. in The
Theosophist 59:3 (December 1937): 226-28.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Attended a Blavatsky Lodge meeting in 1889, Annie Besant anc
G.R.S. Mead were present. Describes Blavatsky’s attire and says hei
height was no more than "four feet ten inches—Queen Victoria’s height.
But according to a statement from Josephine Ransom in the Feb. 193!
Theosophist, p. 477, most accounts she came across gave it as beinj
"average," with one definitely stating 5 feet 8 in.
1220. Wright, Ron. "Rise of the Fallen Angel." Los Angeles: Verit<
Broadcast #133, 1970. 3 pp.
Transcript of Wright’s broadcast over radio station KTYM, 146(
in Los Angeles, on Nov. 27, 1970, where he credits Blavatsky as writing
a Manualfor Revolution calling for "the assassination of national leaden
as an instrument for world revolution."
I
I 1221. Wyld, George. "Madame Blavatsky and her ‘Theosophical
Society." In Notes on My Life. London: Kegan, Paul, Trench
Trubner & Co., 1903, pp. 71-74.
Met Mme. Blavatsky in England in 1879 at a dinner party at th<
home of the Hollis-Billings, when she and Col. Olcott were en route t<
India. Gives his initial impressions. After their departure he became
President of the British Theosophical Society but resigned his office ii
1882 when he found that Blavatsky did not believe in a personal God.
1222. Xifre, Jose. "H.P.B." Lucifer 8:48 (August 15, 1891): 455-56
Rept. in item 695.
Paper read at the Convention of the European Section of the T.S.
July 1891, by the Spanish delegate. "She gave me hope for the future
she inspired me with her own noble and devoted principles, an<
transformed my everyday existence by holding up a high ideal of life fo
attainment; the ideal being the chief object of the Theosophical Society
i.e., to work for the good and well-being of humanity."
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 355
1223. Yarker, John. "Madame Blavatsky and Masonry." Letter to the
Editor, Light (London), Oct. 10, 1891, pp. 490-91.
Yarker defends his issuing a diploma for the Adoptive Rite to
tfme Blavatsky in 1877 (facsimile reproduced as the frontispiece to item
>10). "I gave to Madame Blavatsky no degrees beyond what she was
mtitled to receive by all the international rules and regulations of what is
called high-grade Masonry. At the same time I am quite well aware that
rom older sources she was in possession of much that was not given her
>y myself."
1224.--------. "Letter from John Yarker, 33°, 90°, 97°." Universal
Masonry (Chicago) 1:4 (October 1910): 104-9.
In addition to bestowing the highest rank of Adoptive Masonry to
I.P.B., that of a Crowned Princess 12°, Yarker, who was Grand Master
)f the Ancient and Primitive Rite of Memphis and Mizram, reveals that
le had also sent her in 1877 a "Certificate of the female branch of the Sat
3hai," a fringe-Masonic order organized at Benares.
L225. Yeats, William Butler. "Four Years, 1887-1891." The London
Mercury 4:22 (August 1921): 368-72. The Dial (New York) 71:2
(August 1921): 179-97. Rept. Churchtown, Dundrum: Cuala
Press, 1921. Rept. in The Trembling of the Veil London: T.
Werner Laurie, 1922. Rept in Autobiographies. London:
Macmillan, 1926; New York: Macmillan, 1927, pp. 214-26,;
1953, pp. 106-12.
Yeats’ acquaintance with Mme. Blavatsky, meeting her first at
Norwood, soon after her arrival in London in 1887, when she had "as
he said, three followers left." Depicts her as "a sort of female Dr.
ohnson...she had two dominant moods, both of extreme activity, one
jalm and philosophic. ”
i2 2 6 .--------. "Autobiography." In Memoirs. Transcribed and ed. by
Denis Donoghue. New York: Macmillan, 1972, pp. 23-26.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Transcribes the first draft of Yeats’ "Autobiography" begun ii
1915, supplying a variation of the references to Blavatsky used in "Fou
Years." "Though she would be, I was told, remorseless where he
movement was concerned, taking people away from their busines
perhaps and sending them to the ends of the earth, she made upon me ai
impression of indulgence and generosity. I remember how careful sh
was that the young men about her should not overwork. I overheard he
saying to some rude stranger who had reproved me for talking too much
‘No, no, he is very sensitive.’"
1227. Zhelihovsky, Vera Petrovna de. "Pravda o Yelene Petrovn
Blavatskoy." Rebus (St. Petersburg) 2:40, 43-44, 46-48 (1883]
Trans, by H.P.B. as "Fragments from H.P.B.’s ‘Mystics
History.’" The Theosophist, May-Nov. 1991.
The translation begins with H.P.B.’s return to Pskov during th
winter of 1858 and emphasizes her stay in Russia. Sinnett incorporate
most of this material in item 1148. H.P.B.’s comments and footnote
have also been transcribed by myself in item 834.
1228.------- . "On Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." Appendix 1,4, i
Reminiscences of H.P.Blavatsky and The Secret Doctrine (itei
1195), 1893, pp. 105-6; 1976, 1989, pp. 92-93.
Extracted from Mme. Zhelihovsky’s "Yelena Petrovn
Blavatskaya: Biografichesky ocherk" (Helena P. Blavatsky: Biographies
Sketch) in Russokoye Obozreniye (Russian Review), Nov., Dec. 1891, o
H.P.B.’s explanation to her in 1886 about being able to write on mattei
she had no understanding of in The Secret Doctrine. "I only copy oi
what is ready made before my eyes."
1229.--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky." Lucifer (London), Nov. 15
1894-Apr. 15. 1895. Rept. in The Theosophist, Jan., Mar. 1895
Translated from the Nouvelle Revue of 1892, this biographies
sketch shares a similarity to the one in the 1891 Russian Review. Th
Norks About H.P. Blavatsky 357
nain coverage is on Blavatsky’s life since the founding of the
rheosophical Society, with copious extracts from her letters to her sister,
md Mme. Zhelihovsky’s narrative of visits to her in Paris in the spring
>f 1884, and London in the summer of 1890. Valuable for the quotes
rom the letters of V.S. Solovyov that run counter to the tale he tells in
1Modern Priestess of Isis (1913).
2 3 0 .--------. "My Sister—H. P. Blavatsky." Trans, by Mrs. Kirk and
Mrs. Lieven. The London Forum, Dec. 1934-July 1935.
A translation of Mme. Zhelihovsky’s biographical sketch "Radda-
lai" in the Russian edition of Blavatsky’s "Enigmatical Tribes in the
Blue Hills’" and "Durbar at Lahore," St. Petersburg, 1893. Especially
nteresting for the author’s informative footnotes.
231. Zirkoff, Boris de. "Note on H.P. Blavatsky’s Family."
Theosophia (Los Angeles) 4:1 (May-June 1947): 14.
Biographical information on H.P.B.’s grandparents, Andrey
Mihailovich de Fadeyev (1789-1867), his wife, Helena Pavlovna, nee
■rincess Dolgorukov (1789-1860), their children, and H.P.B.’s father,
lo\. Peter Alexeyevich von Hahn (1798-1873).
2 3 2 .--------, comp. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 5: 1883.
Los Angeles: Philosophical Research Society, 1950. xxxii, 416
pp. Rept. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1985.
In 1950 Boris de Zirkoff began issuing an American edition of
Havatsky’s magazine and newspaper output as the Collected Writings
eries. Four volumes had previously appeared in London from Rider and
’o., as The Complete Works ofH.P. Blavatsky, 1933-36, with A. Trevor
barker as editor. But Mr. de Zirkoffs volumes, in addition to supplying
*xts, were enhanced by a month to month chronology of key events in
lavatsky’s life, an extended bio-bibliography, and rare photographs,
tarting with volume 7, publication of the series was taken over by the
358 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur)
Theosophical Publishing House at Adyar, and later transferred to th<
division at Wheaton, 111.
1233.--------. "Missing H.P.B. Material." The Canadian Theosophis
33:9 (November 15, 1952): 139-40.
During 1890 and 1891 the Theosophical Publishing Society o
London issued two volumes of Transactions of the Blavatsky Lodgi
covering discussions held from Jan. 10 to Mar. 14, 1889, but meeting!
continued until June 20, 1889. Lucifer for Oct. 1890, p. 165, noted tha
the reports covered 24 folios in long-hand, de Zirkoff queries after th<
remaining material.
1234.--------.H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 6: 1883-84-85
Los Angeles: Blavatsky Writings Publication Fund, 1954. liv, 48
pp. Rept. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1975.
1235.------- . H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 7: 1886-87
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1958. xxxiv, 433 pp
Rept. Wheaton, IL: 1987.
1236.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 8: 1887. Adyar
Theosophical Publishing House, 1960. xxviii, 507 pp. Rept
Wheaton, IL: 1980.
1237.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 9: 1888. Adyar
Theosophical Publishing House, 1962. xxx, 487 pp. Rept
Wheaton, IL: 1974.
1238.------- . H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 10: 1888-89
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1964. xxxiv, 461 pp
Rept. Wheaton, IL: 1974.
Works About H.P. Blavatsky 359
1239.--------.H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 1: 1874-1878.
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Press, 1966. 1988. lxxx, 570 pp.
Features a "comprehensive yet succinct outline of H.P.B.’s family
background and early life and travels" prior to her public work, as an
introduction to the entire series. Along with her letters and articles in the
American press, this volume includes a sketch-book of Blavatsky’s said
to date from 1851, and a note-book of travel impressions of Eastern
Europe, c. 1867.
1240.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 2: 1879-1880.
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1967, 1981. xlv,
590 pp.
1241.--------. "Who Played that Trick on H.P.B.? The Puzzle of the
Theosophical Glossary." Theosophia (Los Angeles) 24: 3 (Winter
1967-68): 12-15. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist 49:2
(May-June 1968): 39-41. Rept. in The Dream that Never Dies, ed
by W. Emmett Small. San Diego: Point Loma Publications, 1983,
pp. 81-85.
Of the 2,767 definitions in Blavatsky’s posthumous Theosophical
Glossary de Zirkoff claims a minimum of 2,212 have been supplied from
i large number of other works. "We are blessed with the errors of honest
but inadequate scholars of a previous century." Presents instances.
1242.--------. "Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. A Brief Sketch of Her Life
and Work." Theosophia 25:1 (Summer 1968): 3-8. Rept. in The
Dream that Never Dies. San Diego: Point Loma Publications,
1983, pp. 63-68.
Main events from birth to death.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1243.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol 3: 1881-82.
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1968, 1982. xxxvi.
583 pp.
1244.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 4: 1882-83
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1969, 1981. xlii
718 pp.
1245.------- . "How Isis Unveiled was Written." In Isis Unveiled b>
H.P. Blavatsky. Vol. I. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1972 [issued 1971], pp. 1-61.
Extensive compilation featuring long extracts from Olcott and
Blavatsky on the writing of the first "Theosophical classic." Provides
references to Blavatsky’s later articles clarifying certain points in the
work, as well as statements to it from the Mahatma Letters, and notes or
editions published in the 20th century.
1246.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 11: 1889
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1973. xxxiii, 63^
pp.
1247.--------. "The Writings of H.P. Blavatsky in Russian." In From tht
Caves andJungles ofHindostan by H.P. Blavatsky. Wheaton, IL
Theosophical Publishing House, 1975, pp. xxiii-xliii.
Mme. Blavatsky’s writings in Russian contributed her main source
of income throughout her public life. She wrote two series on Americai
customs while resident in New York, and these were printed in Pravdc
and Tiflisski Vestnik during 1878 as "From Across the Sea, from Beyonc
the Blue Ocean," "Letters from America," and "A Voice from the Othei
World" (not yet published in English). Her travelog "From the Caves anc
Jungles ofHindostan" ran from 1879 till 1886 mainly in M.N. Katkov’s
Russki Vestnik. The Russian Messenger also published her "Durbar ai
Lahore" from May to July 1881, and "The Enigmatical Tribes of the Blue
361
Hills of India" from Dec. 1884 to Apr. 1885. All have been translated
into English at various times, the 1975 T.P.H. translation of the Caves
and Jungles being the most complete. Mr. de Zirkoff indicates her other
shorter articles in Russian.
1248.--------. Rebirth of the Occult Tradition: How The Secret Doctrine
Was Written. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1977. 78
pp. Rept. in The Secret Doctrine by H.P. Blavatsky. Vol. 1.
Adyar: Thesophical Publishing House, 1978, pp. 1-78.
Exhaustive outline of the development of Blavatsky’s major opus,
with emphasis on the phenomenal aspects in the production of the work.
Includes a discussion of the posthumously published third volume, and a
bibliography on non-English translations of The Secret Doctrine.
1249.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 12: 1889-90.
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1980. xxx, 859 pp.
Contains Instructions 1-5 to Blavatsky’s Esoteric Section with
compiler’s notes.
1250.--------. "H.P.B.’s Esoteric Instructions." The Eclectic
Theosophisty Sept-Oct. 1980, p. 3.
Mr. de Zirkoffs justification for including Blavatsky’s private
E.S. material as part of the Collected Writings series. Mentions that
Tudge as Head of the E.S. during the 1890s had declared this material no
longer "esoteric."
1251.--------. H.P. Blavatsky: Collected Writings. Vol. 13: 1890-91.
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1982. xxxii, 465
pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
I 1252.--------, and Dara Eklund, comp. H.P. Blavatsky: Collectec
Writings. Vol. 14: Miscellaneous. Wheaton, IL: Theosophica
Publishing House, 1985. xlviii, 733 pp.
Reprints the text of the third volume of The Secret Doctrine witl
the compiler’s survey of its contents and views on its authenticity.
1253.--------. "How The Voice of the Silence was Written." Thi
American Theosophist 76:9 (Nov-Dec. 1988): 230-37. Rept. as the
Introduction to The Voice of the Silence by H.P. Blavatsky
Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing House, 1992, pp. lla-33a
Quotes extensively from Blavatsky’s letters written during her sta]
at Fontainebleu and the Isle of Jersey in the summer of 1889.
1254. Zweig, Paul. "Talking to the Dead and Other Amusements." Thi
New York Times Book Review, Oct. 5, 1980, pp. 11, 48.
A review of Marion Meade’s Madame Blavatsky (1022) and Bruci
Campbell’s Ancient Wisdom Revived (307). Accepts Meade’s version o
Blavatsky’s life—mistress of Agardi Metrovitch, mother of an illegitimati
child, who had no interest in the Orient until she decided to go to Indi;
in the late 1870s, but says that Meade’s biographical approach leave;
many questions that Campbell answers. Still, "she revolutionized Westen
Occultism...prepared the way for an interest in genuine masters...[and
contributed to a religious awakening in India."
CHAPTER 6
The Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett
The existence of the Masters, Brothers, Mahatmas, provided a great
part of the allure of 19th century Theosophy. As one participant of the
London occult scene of the 1880s observed, "The idea of a group of
divinized men, dwelling in the fastness of the Himalayas, and endowed
with transcendent knowledge and powers, possessed a fascination for all
but the strongest heads" (item 388). The importance of these
Theosophical adepts lay not so much in their phenomenal abilities, but in
the living testament they provided to the effectiveness of the Theosophical
method. What the adepts were, all could become through perseverance
and sustained practice of Theosophy.
According to Theosophical legend, Mme. Blavatsky’s introduction
to the Masters came in London in 1851 when she recognized one of the
Indians with the Nepal Embassy to the Great Exhibition at the Crystal
Palace as the figure seen in her dreams and visions since childhood. A
sketch-book said to date from this period contains her note, "Nuit
memorable!... 12 Aout 1851, lorsque je rencontrais le Maitre de mes
reves!!" (item 858). Different accounts have her proceeding directly to his
retreat in Tibet for instruction, or making two unsuccessful attempts at
sntry during the 1850s, succeeding only in the 1860s.
The earliest known communication from the Masters dates from
1870 and was received by Mme. Blavatsky’s aunt in Russia. In a letter
to Col. Olcott June 26, 1884, Mme. Fadeyev relates the circumstances.
"All our researches had ended in nothing. We were ready to believe her
[H.P.B.] dead, when—I think it was about the year 1870, or possibly
later—I received a letter from him whom I believe you call ‘Kouth
363
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
Humi,’ which was brought to me in the most incomprehensible am
mysterious manner, in my house by a messenger of Asiatic appearance
who then disappeared before my eyes" (item 1258, where a photograpl
and text of the letter are reproduced).
Before the founding of the Theosophical Society in November 1875
I Col. Olcott had been brought into relations with these adepts, receiving
r letters signed "Serapis." During the summer of 1875 Olcott was told ii
one of these letters, "The time is come to let thee know who I am. I an
I• not a disembodied spirit, brother. I am a living man, gifted with sue!
powers by our Lodge as are in store for thyself someday" (item 1258
Letter 9).
Olcott records in Old Diary Leaves I, that before leaving Americ;
he was transferred to the Indian section of this Brotherhood. In 1877 afte
completing an evening’s work on Isis Unveiled the Colonel retired to hi
room in the apartment he shared with Blavatsky on West 47th Street ii
New York. "All at once as I read with my shoulder a little turned froc
the door, there came a gleam of something white in the right hand come
of my right eye. I turned my head, dropped my book in astonishment
and saw towering above me in his great stature an Oriental clad in whiti
garments, and wearing a head-cloth or turban of amber-striped fabric
hand embroidered in yellow floss silk. Long raven hair hung from unde
his turban to the shoulders; his black beard, parted vertically on the chii
in Rajput fashion, was twisted up at the ends and carried over the ears
(item 192). Having lived among so much phenomena with Blavatsky, h
wondered if this was a hallucination or if she had managed to hypnotiz
him, and he hoped for some tangible proof of the reality of this visit
whereupon the figure unwound his turban, flung it at him and was gone
Olcott later met the same individual physically in Bombay. His diary fo
July 15, 1879 reveals: "Had visit in the body of the Sahib!...we had
most important private interview. Alas! how puerile and vain these mei
make one feel by contrast with them" (T.S. Archives, Adyar).
It was left to a shrewd newspaper man, A.P. Sinnett (1840-1921)
then editor of the Allahabad Pioneer, to introduce the Masters to th
world at large. Making the acquaintance of Olcott and Blavatsky in 1879
Sinnett had invited them to Simla in Sept. 1880, and it was there that h
addressed a letter to one of these "Unknown Brothers." "A day or tw
after I found on my writing table the first letter sent me by my ne\
correspondent. I may here explain, what I learned afterwards, that he wa
a native of the Punjab who was attracted to occult studies from hi
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 365
earliest boyhood. He was sent to Europe whilst still a youth at the
intervention of a relative—himselfan occultist—to be educated in Western
Knowledge, and since then has been fully initiated in the greater
tenowledge of the East" (item 1261).
Their correspondence eventually extended over six years and
produced 145 letters, notes, telegrams. From this material Sinnett wrote
lis two best-sellers, The Occult World, 1881, dedicated to his
correspondent, the Mahatma Koot Hoomi, by name, and Esoteric
Buddhism, 1883, a resume of Eastern occult philosophy provided by the
etters. Sinnett’s works, having access to this body of information,
leserve to be set apart from other Theosophical works, and are listed
separately in this chapter. It should be noted that after cooling his
elations with Blavatsky due to her criticism of Esoteric Buddhism in The
Secret Doctrine, Sinnett made attempts through different mediums to keep
n contact with the Masters, and his later writings reflect his new sources.
The initial publication of The Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism
vas not without controversy, as the items in part C of this chapter
ndicate. The most formidable at the time was the discovery by an
American Spiritualist Henry Kiddle (1824-1891) of a few sentences from
m 1880 lecture by him in one of Koot Hoomi’s letters printed in The
Jccult World. Known as the "Kiddle incident," the effect boomeranged
vhen Theosophists showed that Kiddle’s passages were in turn
macknowledged quotes from Plato. After the publication in 1923 of the
iill text of the letters that Sinnett’s books were based on, William Loftus
3are and Harold Edward Hare produced a 326 page study claiming to
inswer the question of Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters by settling the
luthorship on Mme. Blavatsky.
All the written testimony by recognized handwriting analysts suggest
he opposite. In 1886 Gustav Gebhard submitted samples of Blavatsky’s
landwriting and the Mahatma script to the Court Calligraph of Germany
md was assured they were different handwritings (item 1438). In 1964
/ictor Endersby submitted the handwriting samples by Blavatsky,
Damodar, and K.H. used by Richard Hodgson in the plates to his 1885
leport (item 1859) to Dr. Paul Kirk of the University of California
Criminological Department, and received a reply indicating that neither
)amodar or Blavatsky were the writers (Kirk’s letter of Feb. 17, 1964,
s reproduced on p. 160 of item 809). Dr. Vernon Harrison has given his
professional opinion in the pages of the April 1986 Journal of the Society
or Psychical Research (London), that he believes Blavatsky not to be the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
author. Dr. Harrison was Research Manager of Thomas De la Rue
printers of banknotes, passports, and stamps, and as the editor of th
Journal remarks, "there is probably not much that he does not kno^
about forgery."
Richard Hodgson, a member of the S.P.R. Committee investigatin
Theosophical phenomena, concluded in his own analysis of the K.E
script in the S.P.R.’s 1885 Proceedings that the Mahatma letters were "i
a disguised handwriting of Madame Blavatsky." Prior to his return t
England from India he had come to this conclusion and had sent sample
of the K.H. script and Blavatsky’s to his expert, F.G. Netherclift, and
Mr. Sims of the British Museum. He was surprised to learn that "Mi
Netherclift, in the first instance, came to the conclusion that these K.t
documents were not written by Madame Blavatsky."Hodgson would ha\
none of this and submitted further specimens. "The result was that M
Netherclift came to the conclusion that the whole of these documen
were without doubt written by Madame Blavatsky. Mr. Sims, of tl
British Museum, who had originally expressed the same opinion as M
Netherclift, similarly changed his opinion" (item 1859). Neither submits
a report that was printed.
Interested researchers can form their own opinion in this matter. Tl
letters are readily available for inspection in the Dept, of Manuscripts
the British Library, London, as Additional MS. 45,284, 45,285, 45,28(
making three hefty volumes. They were deposited in the British Museui
by Sinnett’s executrix in 1939.
Most of the studies in part C of this chapter either totally accept <
reject the existence of the Mahatmas. Sinnett once convinced remained
firm believer. A.O. Hume, the other recipient of the letters, lost intere
fairly early. In spite of his antagonism to the leaders of the Theosophic
Society he still retained the conviction "that K.H. is a real entity, but I
no means the powerful and god-like being he has been painted" (quote
in Hodgson’s Report, 1859).
W.B. Yeats, when a member of Blavatsky’s Esoteric Section
London in 1889, struggled to explain the nature of the Mahatmas, ar
developed the following alternatives: "(1) They are probably livii
occultists, as H.P.B. says, (2) They are possibly unconscioi
dramatizations of H.P.B.’s own trance nature, (3) They are also possib
but not likely, as the mediums assert, spirits, (4) They may be the tram
principle of nature expressing itself symbolically. The fraud theory in i
most pronounced form I have never held for more than a few minutes i
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 367
it is wholly unable to cover the facts. The four other hypotheses do cover
them" (item 1462).
Theosophy inthe Nineteenth Century
A. The Mahatma Letters
1255. Barker, A. Trevor, ed. The Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnettfrom
the Mahatmas M. & K.H. London: T. Fisher Unwin; New York:
Frederick A. Stokes, Dec. 1923, May, June, Nov. 1924. xxxv,
492 pp. 2nd rev. ed., Mar. 1926. xlvii, 493 pp. Rept.
Philadelphia: David McKay Co., Jan. 1930. London: Rider &
Co., Jan. 1930, Mar. 1933, 1948. xlvii, 493 pp. + 32 p. index.
Rept. Pasadena, CA: Theosophical University Press, 1975. Rept.
Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 3rd rev. ed., 1962, 1972.
1979. xliii, 524 pp.
One hundred thirty-three notes, letters, chits, from M. and K.H..
and their pupil Djual Khool. An appendix includes relevant
correspondence to Sinnett from Blavatsky, Subba Row, Damodar K.
Mavalankar. The third edition was revised throughout by Christmai
Humphreys and Elsie Benjamin from the originals in the British Museum
and incorporates the 32 page index published as a separate booklet by T.
Fisher Unwin. The appendix to item 674 contains an additional thirteer
notes that were not included. Items 1323, 1351, 1398, 1416 provide £
chronology.
1256. Jinarajadasa, C., ed. The Early Teachings of the Masters, 1881
1883. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1923. xix, 270 pp
Chicago: The Theosophical Press, 1923. [14,] 245 pp.
The text of the Mahatma letters to Sinnett from manuscript copie:
circulated among early Theosophists. C.J. has arranged the materia
under subject headings dealing with the Planetary Chain, Conditions aftei
Death, Races and Sub-Races, Cosmic Origins, Science, Ethics anc
Philosophy. An appendix reprints four articles from The Theosophis
1881-83.
1257.------- , comp. Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom. Firs
Series. With a Foreword by Annie Besant. Adyar: Theosophica
Publishing House, 1919. 124 pp. 1923, 1945, 1948, 1964, 1973
1988. 174 pp.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 369
The original edition contained forty letters from the Masters to
various early Theosophists covering the years 1881-88. The 1948 fourth
edition included twelve letters to Laura Holloway Langford from her
1912 article (item 1391), in addition to seven letters incorporated
previously, among them the text of the 1900 K.H. letter to Annie Besant,
along with explanatory notes by C.J.
1258.--------, comp. Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom. Second
Series. With a Foreword by Annie Besant. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1925. 191 pp. 1973, 1977. 189 pp. Chicago:
The Theosophical Press, 1925. 206 pp.
Contains the "Serapis" letters received by Olcott in America 1875-
76, and subsequent letters from the Masters in India, 1879-86, along with
letters to various Theosophists during the 1880s. An appendix reprints
articles from the 1883 Theosophist by Damodar, Mohini Chatteiji, and
S. Ramaswamier, on their encounters with the Mahatmas. Includes
facsimiles of nine letters.
B. Works of A.P. Sinnett
1259. Sinnett, Alfred Percy. [Untitled printed letter explaining his
association with Mme. Blavatsky, her phenomena and
background.] Allahabad, Feb. 5, 1880. 4 pp.
Copy in H.P.B.’s Scrapbook 10, Part 1, is inscribed by Sinnett:
"My Revered Isis. As follows have I addressed some friends at home."
1260.--------. Privately printedfor private circulation. Allahabad: The
Pioneer Press, n.d. 22 pp.
Begins: "The following explanation of the circumstances under
vhich I have been led to pay attention to occultism is prepared for the
benefit of any friends who may wish for information on the subject."
370 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1261.--------. The Occult World. London: Trubner & Co., 1st & 2nc
ed., 1881. 172 pp. 3rd ed. 1883. xiv, 140 pp. 4th ed. 1884. xiv.
160 pp. 5th ed. 1889. Rept. New York: J.W. Bouton; Boston:
Colby & Rich, 1882. 172 pp. Rept. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin &
Co., 2nd American ed. from the 4th Eng. ed., 1885. xvi, 228 pp
1886, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1891, 1895. Rept. New York: Lovell
Gestefeld & Co., 6th American ed., [c. 1890]. xvi, 228 pp.
Based on the first eight K.H. letters to Sinnett in item 1255, an<
the text of a long letter to Hume, Nov. 1, 1880, with Sinnett’s narrative
relating how the correspondence came about, and the rationale of th<
adepts. "There is a school of Philosophy still in existence of whicl
modern culture has lost sight." The 4th English edition adds an appendix
on the Kiddle incident.
1262.--------. Le Monde Occulte. Hypnotisme Transcendant en Orient
Traduit de l’anglais avec l’approbation de l’auteur par F.K
Gaboriau. Paris: George Carre; Bruxelles: A. Manceaux, 1887
xxxv, 368 pp.
The "Postface du Traduction" on pages 319-52, adds furthe
historical information, while pages 353-59 reprint the "Protestation d
Mme. Blavatsky," translated from Sinnett’s Occult World Phenomem
(item 1914).
1263. [--------.] A Few Words to Church-Goers, [India:] Published unde
the auspices of the Theosophical Society, [c. 1882]. 4 pp.
A reading list of recommended Theosophical books that will hel
"towards the reconstruction of a Church that shall be a reality."
1264.------- , and A.O. Hume [A Lay Chela]. Fragments of Occu
Truth. 1-8. Bombay and Madras: The Parent Theosophici
Society, [c. 1882-83].
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 371
Reprinted from The Theosophist, Oct. 1881, Mar., Sept.-Nov.
1882, Mar.-May 1883. Nos. 1-5 were issued in pamphlet form from
Bombay, 6-8 from Madras. Nos. 1-3 were written by Hume, and the
series was continued by Sinnett based on information received from the
Mahatma letters, and covered the septenary principle, human evolution,
after-death states, and the progress of humanity. Much of this material
appeared in Esoteric Buddhism, and a further attempt was made to
disseminate these teachings among Spiritualists through the pages of
London’s Light, Aug. 26, Sept. 16, Nov. 18, 23, 1882, Feb. 17, 1883,
as "Letters on Theosophy. From an Anglo-Indian to a London
Theosophist."
1265.--------. Esoteric Buddhism. London: Trubner & Co., 1st & 2nd
ed. 1883. xx, 215 pp. 3rd ed. 1884, 4th ed. 1885. Rept. London:
Chapman & Hall, 5th ed. annotated & enlarged, 1885. 239 pp.
1888. 248 pp. 1889, 1892. Rept. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin &
Co., 1884. 300pp. 1885, 1886. 1887. 330pp. 1888, 1889, 1890,
1893, 1896. Rept. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 8th
ed, annotated & enlarged, 1898. xxiii, 248 pp.
Esoteric teachers, the Constitution of Man, the Planetary Chain,
World Periods, Devachan, Kama Loca, the Human Tidal-Wave, the
Progress of Humanity, the Buddha, Nirvana, and the nature of the
Universe, explained by Sinnett in eleven chapters. Only the American
editions have appendices. Blavatsky opens her Secret Doctrine with a
eview of this "excellent work with a very unfortunate title."
1266.--------. Le Bouddhisme Esoterique ou Positivisme Hitidou. Traduit
de l’anglais par Mme. Camille Lemaitre. Paris: Librairie de Part
independent, 1890. iv, 329 pp.
[267.--------. Theosophy and "Esoteric Buddhism." London: The
Author, March 1884. 7 pp.
"Some comments on the recent pamphlets by ‘the President and
Vice-President of the London Lodge, T.S.’ [Anna Kingsford and
372 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Edward Maitland], and especially on the ‘Reply to the Observations ol
Mr. T. Subba Row.’”
1268.--------. A Paper on Kama-loca and the bearings of the Esoteric
Doctrine on Spiritualism. Transactions of the London Lodge, 2,
December 1884. 17 pp.
1269.--------. The TheosophicalMovement. Transactions of the Londor
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 6, June 1885. 20 pp.
"A paper read at an open meeting of the London Lodge on the
10th June, 1885." With a "Note by Mr. Mohini [Chatteiji]," pp. 15-20.
quoting Sankara.
1270.--------. The TheosophicalMovement. N.p., n.d. 10 pp.
A reprint of an article of the same title contributed by Sinnett tc
the Calcutta Review, Vol. 80, 1885, pp. 339-48.
1271.--------. The Higher Self Transactions of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society, 7, October 1885. 7 pp.
"The substance of an Address delivered at a meeting of the
London Lodge, on the 28th of October 1885."
1272.--------. Karma: A Novel. London: Chapman & Hall, 1885. Vol
I: 311 pp. II: 333 pp. "New edition" 1886, 1891. viii, 285 pp.
Rept. New York: Norman L. Munro, Feb. 25, 1887. 256 pp.
Rept. Chicago: Rand, McNally & Co., 1887. viii, 285 pp. Rept.
New York: American Publishers Corporation, [c. 1890s]. 256 pp.
The 1887 New York edition was issued as part of "Monro’s
Library, Vol. 50, no. 712," which sent out novels every three weeks in
paper covers. The American Publ. Corp. was one of the many imprints
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 373
of John Lovell, and the cover bears the design of Lovell’s "Occult
Series," with the seal of the T.S. The novel utilized contemporary
Theosophists as part of the plot. Mrs. Lakesby was the American
clairvoyant Laura Holloway Langford.
1273.--------. United: ANovel. London: George Redway, 1886. Vol. I:
295 pp. Vol. II: 293 pp.
1274.--------. [A Paper] On Mesmerism. Transactions of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 10, July 1886. 28 pp.
Distributed by George Redway at 1 shilling.
1275.--------. Buddha’
s Teaching. Transactions of the London Lodge of
the Theosophical Society, 12, July 1887. 12 pp.
Distributed by George Redway at 1 shilling.
1276.--------. The Relations of the Lower and the Higher Self.
Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society,
13, August 1887. 15 pp.
Distributed by George Redway at 1 shilling.
1277.--------. A Course of Theosophical Reading. London: George
Redway, 1888. 14 pp. Rept. Boston: Occult Publishing Co., n.d.
11 pp.
An annotated list of books recommended by Sinnett, including Isis
Unveiled, Mabel Collins Cook’s little books, and five of his own works,
fhe reprint adds The Secret Doctrine and The Voice of the Silence.
374 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1278.--------. On Free-Will and Necessity regarded in the Light oj
Reincarnation and Karma. Transactions of the London Lodge ol
the Theosophical Society, 15, February 1890. 14 pp.
Distributed through Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co.
1279.--------. The Rationale of Mesmerism. Boston and New York:
Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1892, 1893. 232 pp.
1280.--------. The Human Aura. Transactions of the London Lodge ol
the Theosophical Society, 18, July 1893. 19 pp.
"Substance of an Address delivered at a meeting of the Londor
Lodge, on the 5th of June 1893."
1281.-------. The Pyramids and Stonehenge. Transactions of the Londor
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 19, December 1893. 26 pp.
"The substance of two Addresses delivered to Meetings of the
London Lodge, in October 1892 and November 1893."
1282.------- . Studies in Buddhism. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1893. 32 pp.
Reprinted from The Theosophist, April-June 1887, and issued ai
Theosophical Siftings V, 17-18.
1283.--------. The Phenomena ofSpiritualism considered in the Light o
Theosophic Teaching. Transactions of the London Lodge of th<
Theosophical Society, 23, March 1895. 18 pp.
Delivered before the London Lodge, November 21, 1894.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 375
1284.--------. The Path of Initiation. Transactions of the London Lodge
of the Theosophical Society, 25, May 1895. 28 pp.
Distributed by the Theosophical Publishing Society. Delivered
before the London Lodge, May 1, 1895.
1285.--------. The System to which We Belong. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 30, April 1896. 23
pp.
Delivered before the London Lodge, March 3, 1896.
1286.-. The Growth ofthe Soul. A Sequel to "Esoteric Buddhism."
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896. xv, 454 pp.
1287.--------. The Beginnings of the FifthRace. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 31, February 1897.
23 pp.
Delivered before the London Lodge, February 6, 1897.
1288.--------. The Life of Apollonius of Tyana. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 32, January 1898. 32
pp.
Delivered before the London Lodge, November 6, 1897.
[289.--------. The Constitution of the Ego. Transactions of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 33, February 1899. 32 pp.
Delivered before the London Lodge, February 4 and 11, 1899.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1290.------- . Karma: the Extent and Limitations of our knowledge
Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society
34, November 1899. 32 pp. Rept. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1899.
"The substance of an Address delivered to a meeting of thi
London Lodge on the 4th November 1899."
C. Works about the Mahatmas, Their Letters, and A.P
Sinnett
1291. Adams, E. The Masters of Wisdom. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1890. 24 pp.
The philosophical rationale for the existence of the Masters
supported by cases of their appearance to Theosophists. Issued a
Theosophical Siftings, III, 7.
1292. Alberti, Amalia de. "H.P. Blavatsky and the Press." The Moden
Mystic (London) 1:6 (July 1937): 18-20.
A rebuttal to Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters1
, (item 1356
supplied from the letters of the Masters.
1293. Barborka, Geoffrey A. The Mahatmas and Their Letters. Adyar
Theosophical Publishing House, 1973, 1989. xviv, 422 pp.
Introduces the Mahatma letters, suggests why Sinnett was selects
as the recipient, how the correspondence originated and was received
Analyzes the first and second letter to Sinnett, and the first to A.O
Hume. Reprints accounts of visits from the Mahatmas, testimonials fron
supplemental sources, and facsimiles of twenty letters with commentary
1294. Barker, A. Trevor. "The Writing of the Mahatma Letters." Thi
English Theosophical Forum (London), January 1938. Rept. ii
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 377
The Theosophical Forum (Point Loma, CA) 12:5 (May 1938):
297-300. Rept. in The Hill of Discernment. Point Loma, CA:
Theosophical University Press, 1941, pp. 161-64.
Barker revises his statement in the Introduction to The Mahatma
otters (1255) that what he transcribed was written out by the Mahatmas.
Quotes extracts from the letters showing that they often left it to their
>upils.
295. Beechey, Katherine. "Some Little-Known Letters of the Master
Koot Hoomi." The Theosophist 79:2 (November 1957): 129-32.
Rept. as "W.T. Brown and Two Less Known Letters of the
Master K.H." The Theosophist 109:3 (December 1987): 87-90.
Reprints two short letters from K.H. to William Toumay Brown,
<Jov. 20, 1883, Lahore, and to St. George Lane-Fox, Aug. 2, 1884,
Ulyar, from Brown’s pamphlet My Life (1307), with a digest of the
vents surrounding their receipt.
2 9 6 .--------. "A Letter from the Master K.H." The Theosophist 80:5
(February 1959): 288-300. Rept. in 109:12 (September 1988):
445-52.
The text of the first K.H. letter to A.O. Hume (Nov. 1880),
sprinted from Sinnett’s Occult World with background by Beechey.
297. Besant, Annie. "Mr. Moncure Conway and ‘Koothoomi.’" Letter
to the Editor, Pall Mall Gazette, Oct. 26, 1891, p. 2.
Corrects Moncure Conway’s view quoted in the Oct. 23 issue that
le name Koothoomi was an amalgamate of Olcott and Hume, and that
it has no Hindoo analogies." Besant cites the Vishnu Purana, Book 3,
h. 6, where a Rishi named Koothoomi is mentioned. "The Sanskrit
otters would, perhaps, be better rendered Kuthumi, u instead of oo."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1298.------- . The Masters. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House
1912, viii, 66 pp. 1918. 53 pp. Rept. Krotona, Hollywood
Theosophical Publishing House, 1918. 80 pp.
Three talks by Besant, "The Perfect Man," "The Masters as Fact
and Ideals," and "The Adepts." Describes the Master Jesus, "waiting th<
time for His reappearance," the Master Hilarion, M. and K.H., Maste
Rakoczi, known as the Comte Saint-Germain, the Venetian, and Serapis
1299. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. "The Theosophical Mahatmas." Thi
Path (New York) 1:9 (December 1886): 257-63. Rept. B:CW1
pp. 241-49.
Replies to a joint editorial by Brown and Cables in the Oct.-Nov
1886 Occult Word (item 1311). "Our MASTERS are not ‘a jealous god
they are simply holy mortals, nevertheless, however, higher than any ii
this world, morally, intellectually and spiritually. However holy an<
advanced in the science of the Mysteries—they are still men, members o
a Brotherhood, who are the first in it to show themselves subservient t<
its time-honoured laws and rules. And one of the first rules in it demand
that those who start on the journey Eastward, as candidates to the notic
and favors of those who are the custodians of those Mysteries, shoul
proceed by the straight road, without stopping on every sideway and pat
seeking to join other ‘Masters’ and professors often of the Left-Ham
Science."
1300.------- . "Blavatsky on Butler." Letter to the Editor, Boston Dail
Globe, March 8, 1889, p. 4. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophh
66:5 (Nov.-Dee. 1985): 114-17.
Cries "Halt!" to the manufacture of Adepts by American occul
groups led by Hiram Butler. "Real adepts are men as all others, excep
in the wonderful knowledge acquired by them throughout a series o
incarnations and in the holiness of their lives. They cannot live Ion
centuries in one body. Though, since there are cases in the medica
records of longevity reaching 175 years, there is nothing impossible in
man, knowing the occult sciences of certain plants and alchemy, makin
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 379
lis body last even far beyond that period. But this, however, very few of
hem do. Our masters do not sit astride on the Himalayas or approve of
dielas ruining young girls. Their morality is of the highest order and
enows no compromise."
1301.--------. "A Letter from H.P.B. [Nov. 19, 1889, London]” The
Beacon (New York), October 1923. Rept. in The Canadian
Theosophist 4:9 (November 15, 1923): 130. Rept. in Forum Today
(Yorba Linda, CA), June 1979, pp. 9-10. Rept. in item 1343.
"On my most sacred word of Honor, and ‘on the love I have for
he Higher Forces,’ aye, in the presence of my Higher Self, I say to you
>lainly and clearly that our Mahatmas are human beings, generally living
>eyond the Himalayas. I say ‘generally’ because the two who are our
Masters travel a good deal; because Master K.H. goes every two years
o Japan and China, and my own blessed Master comes sometimes to
ndia (in 1879 He passed a week in Bombay when He came to visit us
ind Col. Olcott and others saw him).”
3 0 2 .--------. "H.P.B. to Countess Wachtmeister.” The Eclectic
Theosophist, Mar.-Apr. 1982, pp. 6-9.
Important letter to Countess Wachtmeister from H.P.B., Jan. 24,
886, on the mechanics of transmission of letters to the Masters.
)iscovered by Jean-Paul Guignette in a copy of Wachtmeister’s
leminscences in a Paris bookstore. Excerpts from copies of this letter had
een published in March 1893 Path as "H.P. Blavatsky on Precipitation
nd other matters," and in item 1371.
303. Board, David. "The Brotherhood of Light and The Brotherhood
of Luxor." Theosophical History (London) 2:5 (January 1988):
149-57.
Links the Brotherhood of Luxor, mentioned by Olcott as being
ctive in his affairs before the founding of the T.S., to the Rosicrucian
roup Fratres Lucis, originally organized in 1781, and its later revivals.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1304. Brown, William Toumay. "Mahatma K.H." Letter to the Editor
Madras Mail, Aug. 25, 1884. Rept in the Indian Mirroi
(Calcutta), Aug. 31, 1884.
1305.------- . "Mahatma K.H." Letter to the Editor, The Statesman
(Calcutta), Sept. 6, 1884.
Speaks of receiving letters from K.H., and seeing him physically
"He is no phantom, as I have recognized him, was spoken to, an<
touched."
1306.--------. Some Experiences inIndia. London: Printed under th
Authority of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 1884
19 pp. Rept. in The Canadian Theosophist, July-Sept. 1931, pp
158-59, 166-69, 200-205. Rept. 28:4 (June 15, 1947): 117-25
Rept. in Theosophical History 3:7-8 (July-Oct. 1991): 214-23.
Contributes an account of his travels with Olcott during th
Colonel’s 1883 lecture tour of North India. Brown joined him in earl;
Oct. and they visited Poona, Bombay, Jubbulpore, Allahabad
Moradabad, Rawalpindi, Peshawar, Lahore, Jammu. K.H. visited ther
at Lahore in Nov., "on the morning (before daylight) of the 20th he cam
to my tent and said, ‘Now you see me before you in the flesh; look an<
assure yourself that it is I,’ and left a letter of instructions, and a sill
handkerchief."
1307.------- . My Life. Frieburg, Baden, Germany: Printed by D
Lauber for the Author, [1885]. 64 pp.
The mundane course of Brown’s undistinguished life mad
memorable only by his meeting K.H. in Lahore in Nov. 1883. Arme
with letters of introduction, Brown at the age of 26 left London for th
Theosophical headquarters at Adyar, "going out in the capacity of a
independent investigator, at my own expense." "Of the existence of th
Adept Koot Hoomi I obtained all the proof desirable; and was convince
of the soundness, in the main, of the Theosophical teaching. I am nc
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 381
srepared to say that Blavatsky’s life is a blameless one. I am not
convinced that all the phenomena ascribed to the Adepts were performed
?y them." Brown left Madras Jan. 4, 1885, returning to England via the
J.S.
1308.--------[Carwood Gerald Clarke]. "Scenes in My Life." The Post-
Express (Rochester, NY), Aug. 7, 14, 21, 28, Sept. 4, 1886.
Under the freedom allowed by the use of a pseudonym, Brown
larrates his adventures among the Theosophists, giving his most detailed
iccount of meeting K.H. "‘So you mean to tell me, Mr. Sinnett, that the
\depts live, move and have their being. You are sure they’re not myths?’
Most certainly, my boy. Go out to India and prove the matter for
ourself.’"
1309.--------. "The Theosophical Mahatmas." Letter to the Editor, ^
Religio-Philosophical Journal, Aug. 28, 1886, p. 3.
Commenting on Coleman’s July 31 letter in the Journal, on the
ion-existence of the Mahatmas (item 1320), Brown gives the testimony ,
>f his encounter with K.H. in Lahore. "We know him to be a living i
nan."
3 1 0 .--------. "The Theosophical Mahatmas." Religio-Philosophical \
Journal, Oct. 16, 1886, p. 2.
Describes the receipt of a letter from K.H. at Adyar after /
llavatsky left for Europe in 1884.
3 1 1 .------- , and Josephine Cables. "The Theosophical Mahatmas." The
Occult Word (Rochester, NY) 2:6-7 (Oct.-Nov. 1886): 21.
Brown announces his change of heart. "A great many of us have
ome to think that we have been running vainly after Eastern mystics and
cstatics, when within the New Testament itself, we find the Way, the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Truth and the Life....We are now prepared to stand by our Essenian
Master, and to ‘test the Spirits’ in his name.” After Blavatsky’s stringent
reply in item 1299 to these comments, Mrs. Cables, the editor of the
Occult Word, tried to exonerate herself from the article in a subsequent
editorial "Dedicated to Our Friends" in the Jan. 1887 issue.
1312.--------. ["The Shrine of Koot Hoomi."] The Lyceum, Novembei
1889. Rept. in the Madras Christian College Magazine 1:1
(January 1890): 545-47. Rept. as "The Shrine of Koot Hoomi.*'
The Madras Mail, Jan. 21, 1890, p. 6.
A unifying feature of some of the most critical 19th centur)
testimony against Blavatsky is the obscure source of publication. In spite
of diligent searching, Brown’s original comments, written after his
conversion to Roman Catholicism, have not been located, and are onl>
identified through a lengthy excerpt in the "Notes and Extracts" section
of the M.C.C.M. The Madras Mail reprinting it supplied the "Shrine o]
Koot Hoomi" title. Here Brown rewrites his experiences in India,
complaining that he never got a good look at Koot Hoomi when he came
to his tent in Lahore. Replied to by item 1359.
1313. Buck, Edward J. Simla. Past and Present. Calcutta: Thacker,
Spink & Co., 1904. Rept. Bombay: The Times Press, 1925, pp.
162-67.
An explanation of H.P.B.’s phenomena at the home of A.O
Hume, Rothnay Castle, Simla.
1314. Butler, E.M. "Madame and the Masters." Ch. 4 in The Myth oj
the Magus. Cambridge, Eng.: At the University Press; New York:
Macmillan, 1948, pp. 243-60.
The theme of Butler’s book is the idea of the Magus in Westerr
culture. Her chapter on Blavatsky’s Theosophical Mahatmas emphasizes
more the function they served, than the question of their actual existence
But still ends up asking, "How, in the name of magic, did she find time
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 383
to do everything the Mahatmas were supposed to do, and live her own
life too?”
* C. C. M. See Massey, Charles Carleton
1315. Caldwell, Daniel, and Michelle B. Graye. "Mary Unveiled."
Theosophical History (London) 1:8 (October 1986): 205-7.
Identifies the medium Sinnett used to contact the Masters after his
break with Blavatsky, as Maude Travers, who became Mrs. Scott-Elliot.
1316. Chatteiji, Mohini. "The Theosophical Mahatmas." Letter to the
Editor, Pall Mall Gazette, Oct. 2, 1884, p. 2. Rept. in item 1343.
"Since an attempt is now being made by the opponents of the
rheosophical Society to discredit the whole movement by circulating the
eport that the ‘Mahatmas,’ or Eastern Adepts, are but ‘crafty
irrangements of muslin and bladders,’ I ask permission to say a word
...duty compels me in this instance to say that I have personal and
ibsolute knowledge of the existence of the Mahatma who has
corresponded with Mr. Sinnett, and is known to the Western world as
Koot-hoomi. ’I had knowledge of the Mahatma in question before I knew
Vldme. Blavatsky, and I met him in person when he passed through the
Madras Presidency to China last year."
1317. Chetty, G. Soobiah. "Master M.’s Visit to Madras in 1874."
Adyar Notes and News, Oct. 28, 1928, p. 2. Rept. in item 1343.
Says he and his brother saw Mahatma M. in Madras in 1874.
lecognized his portrait brought by Blavatsky with her to Madras in 1882.*
* Clarke, Carwood Gerald. See Brown, William Toumay
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1318. Codd, Clara M. Theosophy As the Masters See It. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1926, 1953, 1977. viii, 369 pp.
Extracts from the Mahatma Letters arranged under subjects sue!
as "Why the Masters Founded the T.S.," "Their Methods of Work,'
"Their Agents," "India," "Methods of Attack Used by the Dark Powers,r
"Incense," "Business Judgement in Theosophical Work," strung togethei
with comments by Clara Codd.
1319. Coleman, William Emmette. "Max Mueller on the Mahatmas oi
Himalayan Adepts." Letter to the Editor, Religio-Philosophica
Journal, Jan. 31, 1885, p. 1.
Quotes Muller’sBiographicalEssays, 1884, that Mahatmas are no
limited to Himalayan recesses. "India is full of men who see*
refinement." Coleman adds that "The asserted name of Mad. Blavatsky’i
semi-mythical mahatma, Kuthumi (in English Koot-hoomi), it
undoubtedly an old Sanskrit proper name, and the theory of its derivatioi
from those of Col. Olcott and Mr. Hume does not appear tenable."
1320.--------. "Buddhistic Evidence of the Non-Existence of the
Mahatmas." Letter to the Editor, Religio-Philosophical Journal
July 31, 1886, p. 2.
Cites as evidence an interview in Edwin Arnold’s India Revisited,
1886, with Sri Weligama, chief priest of Pandure, Ceylon, who, wher
asked about the Mahatmas, responded, "such do not exist."
1321.--------. "The ‘Theosophical’ Mahatmas." Religio-Philosophica
Journal, Nov. 27, 1886, p. 1, 8.
Replying to an article by W.Q. Judge in the Oct. 16 Journal
correcting his statements, Coleman insists that Blavatsky "borrowed the
idea" of the Mahatmas after her arrival in India in 1879.
Mahatma Letters and Sinnett 385
1322.--------. "Henry Kiddle and the Mahatma, or H.K. Versus K.H." (
The Carrier Dove (San Francisco), Jan., Feb. 1891, pp. 5-6, 39- I
4
1
- I
1323. Conger, Margaret. Combined Chronology for use with The
Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett and The Letters of H.P.
Blavatsky to A.P. Sinnett. Washington, D.C.: The Author, 1939.
19 pp. Rept. Pasadena, CA: Theosophical University Press, 1973.
xiii, 47 pp.
Presents a Table of Dates for items 1255 and 674, indicating the
writer, place and date the letter was received, where and when it was
written, with notes explaining some of the circumstances behind the
correspondence, and profiles of A.O. Hume, E. Maitland, C.C. Massey,
S. Moses, and F.W.H. Myers. The 1973 reprint takes into account a two
page errata sheet issued by the author in 1940, and adds transcriptions
from Sinnett’s notebook of two Mahatma letters not included in Barker’s
collection, the first K.H. letter to A.O. Hume, Nov. 1 (1880), and the
so-called Chohan’s letter, c. 1880. Item 1361 suggests alternative dates
for Mrs. Conger’s chronology.
1324. [Cook, Mabel Collins.] Morial The Mahatma; or. The Black
Master of Tibet. New York: Lovell, Gestefeld & Co., 1892. 270.V
pp. Rept. as The Mahatma. A Tale of Modern Theosophy.
London: Downey & Co., 1895. 284 pp.
An unsuccessful parody of the Theosophists and their Masters,
originally published serially in the English magazine Short Cuts, 1891/92.
1325. Cooper, John. "The Story of the Mahatma Letters." Theosophy in
Australia, December 1985, pp. 75-81.
Outlines the scope of the Mahatma letters from a chronological
point of view and some of the issues involved in the contents. Provides
a bibliography of editions and study guides.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1326. Cox, Harold R.W. "Who Wrote the March-Hare Attack on the
Mahatmas?" The Canadian Theosophist 17:8 (October 15, 1936):
225-43. Rept. Victoria, B.C.: The "H.P.B." Library, [1936]. 63
pp. [large format ed.] 58 pp.
Answers the question posed by item 1356 with the hypothesis thai
if Blavatsky originated the Mahatma letters it would not be to her
detriment as her critics hoped, but would elevate her to the position of a
sage, the fountain-source of an elaborate philosophy.
1327. Crump, Basil. "The Trans-Himalayan Masters on the Buddha."
The Maha-Bodhi (Calcutta), April-June 1924, pp. 195-200, 234-
39, 300-307. Rept. as Deeper Truths of Buddhism as revealed in
The Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett. London: The Mahatma
Letters Trust/ The Theosophical Society in England, n.d. 14 pp.
References to the Buddha—"the patron of all the adepts, the
reformer and codifier of the occult system"—collated by Crump from the
Mahatma Letters.
1328.--------. "The Mahatma Letters." Dawn (Sydney, Australia), May
1, 1924, pp. 6 -8 .
"In studying these remarkable and invaluable letters, readers musl
bear in mind that they were written to two men typical of the intellectual
West, who were not in the least interested in the ethical and religious
aspects of the great philosophy given out through H.P. Blavatsky, bul
desired, above all else, to study what they understood by the term ‘occull
phenomena,’ and to obtain all the information they could from the
Masters and use it for the benefit of the West."
1329. [------- .] A Tibetan Initiate on World Problems. Victoria, B.C.:
The "H.P.B." Library, n.d. [ii], 13 pp.
Reprints the first K.H. letter to A.O. Hume, Nov. 1880, from The
Occult World, with notes.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 387
1330.--------. "Tibetan Initiates on the Buddha." In Buddhism, The
Science of Life by Alice Leighton Cleather. Peking: China
Booksellers, Mar. 1928. 2nd ed. Sept. 1928, pp. 57-151.
Studies in the Mahatma Letters, dealing with the identity of the
writers, the nature of the Buddha, Tsong-kha-pa, the Tibetan reformer
and founder of the Gelugpas, the Tashi Lama, "the Priest-King of Asia,"
with notes on the Morya dynasty of India and the Kshatriyas, and the
Buddha's work through Sankaracharya.
1331. Das, Sudarshan. "Devapi and Maru—Proofs of Their Existence."
Theosophy in India, Mar., Apr. 1915, pp. 114-23, 172-78. Rept.
as "The Masters. Proofs of Their Existence." The Messenger
(Hollywood) 4:3 (August 1916): 72-75. Rept. as Ch. 4 in Rishis
Devapi and Maru. Vamasi: Indian Bookshop, 1973, pp. 64-90.
Eyewitness accounts of the Masters taken mainly from published
accounts in the early issues of The Theosophist. Includes testimony from
Bhavani Shankar, Mohini Chatteiji, and Rajani Kanta Brahmachari.
1332. Davidge, John L. "Work For Us In Australia." Theosophy in
Australia 19:10 (August 1954): 9-12.
Covers the receipt by Prof. John Smith of Australia of a letter by
Mahatma M. (included in item 1258), with brief biographical information
about the Professor and another early Australian member W.H. Terry.
1333.--------. "Professor John Smith and Theosophy." Proceedings of
the Royal Australian Chemical Institute 26, August 1959, pp. 356-
59. Rept. in Theosophy in Australia 23:6 (December 1959): 5-8.
Smith’s testimonials to the receipt of letters from the Mahatmas
1882/83. The version in the Proceedings of the R.A.C.I. was abridged,
and the reprint gives the full text.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1334. Davy, Ted G. "Computer Vindicates Blavatsky." The Canadian
Theosophist 61:5 (Nov.-Dec. 1980): 97-98.
Reviews Charles Marshall’s "Syntactic Investigation" into the
authorship of the Mahatma Letters (item 1399). "This investigatioi
comprised a computer analysis of samples of writing by H.P. Blavatsky,
the Mahatmas K.H. and M., plus a control group of other writings dating
to the mid-1880s. Comparisons were made of several parameters
including the number of syllables in words, and words in sentences; and
the frequency of appearance of groups of prepositions and conjunctions.'
Marshall’s conclusion from the data returned was that Blavatsky was nol
the forger of the letters.
1335. Dering, Edward Heneage. Esoteric Buddhism: The New Gospel oj
Atheism. London: R. Washboume, 1887. 43 pp.
An extended examination "reprinted, and a little enlarged, froir
two articles in The Month" on Sinnett’s books, showing that his systeir
of Esoteric Buddhism "denies the existence of a personal God," and thai
the promise it offers "may be summed up in the devil’s words to Eve.
YOU SHALL BE AS GODS." "It is neither more nor less that what wai
formerly known in England as the Black Art....The difference is that the
adepts of esoteric Buddhism have a deeper knowledge of their art."
1336. Drinkwater, G.N. "Master K.H.’s Retreat and the Tower of the
Bodhisattvas." The Theosophist 99:11 (August 1978): 136-39.
Extrapolates on a reference in the Mahatma Letters to a temporal
retirement by K.H. at the end of 1881.
1337. Eek, Sven. "Alfred Percy Sinnett (1840-1921)." The Americat
Theosophist 54:7 (July 1966): 164-67. Rept. as Appendix A ii
Readers Guide to The Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett (iten
1398), pp. 249-58.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 389
The events in Sinnett’s life, mainly in connection with the
Theosophical movement, taken from his Autobiography.
1338. Eglinton, William. "Spiritualism and Theosophy.nLight (London),
June 24, 1882, pp. 301-2.
1339.--------. "Mr. Eglinton and ‘Koot Hoomi.’" Letter to the Editor,
Light, Jan. 30, 1886, pp. 50-51.
Two letters from William Eglinton, the medium who gave sittings
in Calcutta in 1881/82, on the appearance of Koot Hoomi on board the
S.S. Vega during his return to England. "He was a well-formed, distinct,
living, human being." Says he searched the ship but could find no one
resembling his visitor.
* Endersby, Victor A. "Calligraft." Ch. 13 in The Hall of Magic
Mirrors (item 809), pp. 127-81.
Analyzes Hodgson’s presentation of evidence for Blavatsky’s
writing the Mahatma letters. Page 160 reproduces a letter from Dr. Paul
L. Kirk on Hodgson’s plates included as part of his 1885 Report. Pages
165-81 deal with the Coulomb letters.
1340. Evans, Violet Firth [Dion Fortune, pseud.]. [Review of Who
Wrote the Mahatma Letters?] The Inner Light (London) 9:10 (July
1936): 185-89.
"I think she [H.P.B.] faked the Letters, but I do not think she
faked the Masters."
1341. Finch, G.B. [The President of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society]. Observations on Mr. Lillie*s "Koot Hoomi
Unveiled." London: Printed by C.F. Roworth, 1884. 15 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Protests "against the insults" contained in Arthur Lillie’s pamphlet
Root Hoomi Unveiled (1395). "To tell the truth, we fear that Mr. Lillie’s
judgement about Theosophy has been warped by a rather severe notice of
his work Buddha and Early Buddhism, which appeared in the Theosophist
in February 1884." Appraises Lillie’s strictures about the Esoteric
Buddhism of the Theosophists, and that "the name ‘Koot Hoomi’ is
gibberish."
1342. Finch, Laura I. "H.P. Blavatsky and Phenomena." Letter to the
Editor, The Occult Review, June 1927, pp. 404-5. Rept. in item
1343.
Quotes letters from Bhavani Shankar, an early Indian member, on
phenomena witnessed in 1884-87, including his meeting with K.H.
* Fortune, Dion. See Evans, Violet Firth
1343. Gomes, Michael, comp. Indian Chelas on the Masters. Adyar,
Madras: Adyar Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 1992. ii, 42
pp.
Reprints the testimony of Damodar K. Mavalankar, Bhavan
Shankar, S. Ramaswamier, R. Casava Pillai, Mohini M. Chatteiji, anc
G. Soobiah Chetty, on their meeting the Indian Mahatmas M. and K.H,
in the flesh. Contains items 1301, 1316, 1317, 1342, 1428, 1431.
| 1344. Gordon, Alice. "Instantaneous Transmission of Another Letter.'
/ Psychic Notes (Calcutta), March 30, 1884, pp. 60-61.
Mrs. Gordon’s testimony of the so-called Vega phenomena, th<
transmission of a letter written by W. Eglinton, Mar. 24, 1880, on boarc
the S.S. Vega, telling of his seeing K.H. on the ship, received at thi
home of Colonel and Mrs. Gordon in Howrah the same day.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 391
1345. The Great Master’s Letter. Bombay: Theosophy Company, 1936.
i, 7 pp.
A reprint of the "Chohan’s letter," with two appendices by
Blavatsky from Lucifer Aug. 1888.
* H. X. See Hume, Allan Octavian
1346. Hall, Manly Palmer. "Madam Blavatsky—A Tribute." Theosophia
(Los Angeles) 4:1 (May-June 1947): 10-11.
Long extract from a letter attributed to Blavatsky, July 5, 1890,
on the nature of the Masters. "My Masters and the Masters are Yogis and
Munis de facto, not de jure; in their life not in their appearance. They
are members of an occult Brotherhood, not of any particular School in
India."
1347. Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus. "The Master M. and H.P.B.’s
Smoking." The Theosophist 56:7 (April 1935): 94-95.
Notes on Mahatma M.’s smoking a chelum or chillum pipe or
hooka.
1348.--------. "Studies in Early Theosophy. I. The Septenary Nature of
Man." The Theosophist, April, June-Aug. 1936, pp. 52-60, 271-
79, 357-64, 450-59.
The influence of Sinnett’s and Hume’s septenary classification in
"Fragments of Occult Truth" on Theosophical terminology.
1349.--------. "Leaves From the Archives. XI. Are the Mahatmas
Tibetan Lamas?" The Theosophist 60:8 (May 1939): 161-66.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
References in 19th century Theosophical sources, including
H.P.B.’s statement in Light, Oct. 11, 1884 (item 708), that "neither oj
the Mahatmas whose names are known in the West are monks,” anc
Damodar’s in the April 1884 Theosophist, that his "venerable Gura Deva"
"holds a well known public office in Thibet under the Teshu Lama."
1350. Hanson, Virginia. "The Mahatma Letters. Today’s Encounter wit!
the Wisdom of the Ages." TheAmerican Theosophist 65:8 (Augus
1977): 229-34. Rept. in The Theosophist, Aug., Oct. 1977, 168-
70, 187, 6-9. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House, 1977
25 pp.
"The philosophy of The Mahatma Letters is timeless, the story o
The Mahatma Letters is in time. What results is a cross-fertilization fron
which a rare kind of drama emerges—a drama in which, quite
unexpectedly at times, one sees oneself and the whole of humankine
reflected with pitiless clarity."
1351.------- . Masters and Men. The Human Story in the Mahatmc
Letters. Foreword by Joy Mills. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1980. xxix, 417 pp. Wheaton, IL: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1980. xx, 323 pp.
The story of the Mahatma letters dramatized. Includes i
chronology for the letters in item 1255.
1352.--------. An Introduction to The Mahatma Letters. A Study Course
Wheaton, IL: Department of Education, Theosophical Society u
America, 1983. 97 pp.
1353.--------. "Notes on The Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett.” Ojai
CA, 1986. Typescript, xi, 326 pp.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 393
Based on notes compiled for class study in the Mahatma letters at
the Krotona School of Theosophy, Ojai, during two years in the late
1970s.
1354. Hare, William Lofitus. "The Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett."
The Occult Review (London), April 1924, pp. 215-19.
Preliminary evaluation of A.T. Barker’s edition of the Mahatma
letters. "I say dogmatically that the system of the Letters does not
correspond to any doctrine of Indian philosophy known to me. In reading
the Letters I cannot tell whether the Authors are Vedantists, Sankhyans,
Hinayana or Mahayana Buddhists."
1355. [--------.] "The Authorship of the Mahatma Letters." The Morning
Post (London), Oct. 31, 1925.
"In asking and answering the question: Who wrote the Mahatma
Letters? we are endeavouring to perform a service alike to the deluded
members of the Theosophical Society, to the general public, and, in a
special sense, to the British Empire." Presents an overview of the
physical format of the letters, paper used, post-marks, "calligraphic
exercises," and similarity of phrases used by Blavatsky.
1356.--------, and Harold Edward Hare. Who Wrote the Mahatma
Letters? London: Williams & Norgate, 1936. 326 pp.
This "first thorough examination of the communications alleged to
have been received by the late A.P. Sinnett from Tibetan Mahatmas"
introduces the writers of the letters, their habitat, scrutinizes similarities
between Blavatsky’s writings and the letters—key-words, Franco-English
phrases. Questions the philosophical basis, and claims the tone of the
letters are not Oriental but have a French grammatical basis. Their
attempt at correcting Koot Hoomi’s signature, provided in one of the
plates to Barker’s edition of the letters, provides an indication of the
nature of their criticism throughout this work—mistaking one thing for
something it is not, proceeding to point it out with glee, and rectifying the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"error." Allowing for regional variation, it is in perfectly readable Hindi
script, yet the Hares criticize it and proceed to correct it into Sanskrit!
Under the heading of "A Libel on a Laureate," they accuse K.H. as
palming off as Tennyson "six lines of very poor verse." But the lines are
from Tennyson, and are cited in Sinnett’s 1920 book Tennyson an
Occultist. As an example of the Mahatmas "Dog Latin," they give K.H.’s
use of "qui pro quo," which they correct to "quid pro quo," but the
phrase used here is French, and their changing it to Latin makes the
meaning of the sentence nonsensical. The list could go on and on.
Beatrice Hastings discovered over two hundred. See items 1292, 1326,
1360, 1362, 1374, 1434, 1437, 1452, 1453, 1454, 1455, 1456, 1457,
1458, 1460, 1461.
1357.------- , and Harold Edward Hare. "The Mahatma Letters." Letter
to the Editor, The Occult Review, January 1937, pp. 52-53, 55,
57, 59, 61.
Ruffled reply to the review of their book by Helen Savage in the
Oct. 1936 Occult Review (item 1437).
1358.--------, and Harold Edward Hare. The Mahatma Letters: Alibi and
Post Mortem Defences. Letchworth, Eng.: G. W. Wardman,
1937. 20 pp.
Stung by the hornets nest of Theosophical critics aroused by theii
book, the Hares dismiss them, acknowledging only C. Jinarajadasa’s
citation of a K.H. letter written in 1900 to Annie Besant (item 1374).
* Harrison, Vernon. "J’Accuse. An Examination of the Hodgsor
Report of 1885." Journal of the Societyfor Psychical Research.
Cited as item 1851.
Concentrates on the handwriting aspect of Richard Hodgson’s
Report to the S.P.R. Committee on Theosophical phenomena, especially
the charge of Blavatsky’s authorship of the Mahatma letters. Aftei
examining the K.H. documents in the British Library, Harrison, a
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 395
handwriting analyst by profession, concludes, "I can find no clear
evidence that H.P.B. wrote them and I find significant that she did not.
I do not know who wrote the Mahatma Letters, but I do not find it
plausible to assume that Madame Blavatsky wrote them—the great bulk
of them at any rate. That is my professional Opinion."
1359. Harte, Richard. "The Shrine of Koot Hoomi." Letter to the
Editor, Madras Mail, Jan. 24, 1890, pp. 5-6. Rept. as "Poor
Brown." Adyar, Madras: The Author, 1890. 11 pp.
Contrasts W.T. Brown’s statements reprinted in the Madras Mail
of Jan. 21 (item 1312)—the "Cooked Account"—with the initial
description of the same events presented in Brown’s 1885 pamphlet My
Life—the "Original Entry"—to show the discrepancies. Harte’s reply
reprinted as a pamphlet was inserted in the Feb. 1890 Tlteosophist.
1360. Hastings, Beatrice. Defence of Madame Blavatsky. Vol. 1.
Worthing, Eng.: The Hastings Press, 1937. 60 pp.
Four sections dissect problematic aspects of the Mahatma letters:
the literary style of the letters contrasted with H.P.B.’s—"one is struck
immediately by the difference in fundamental rhythm from the
temperament of H.P.B."—the Kiddle incident; the Hare book, where
Mrs. Hastings presents parallel columns showing "misquotations,
deliberate misquotations, cunning misplacements of matter, misleading
verbalisms, errors of juxtaposition, deliberate misjuxtaposition,
misleading references and inferences (scarcely to be imagined!) and
ignorant statements due to lack of study"; and a note on Sinnett’s
relationship with K.H.
1361.--------. "Index to The Mahatma Letters." Letter to the Editor, The
Canadian Theosophist, March 15, 1940, pp. 28-29.
Corrects Margaret Conger’s Chronology (1323), which she terms
’shockingly bad." See also Mrs. Hastings subsequent letter, "The Critic
396 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Corrects Herself,” in the May 15, 1940 Canadian Theosophist, pp. 89-
90.
* Hodgson, Richard. Part 2 in "Account of Personal Investigations
in India, and Discussion of the Authorship of the ‘Koot Hoomi’
Letters." In Proceedings of the Societyfor Psychical Research 3
(item 1859), pp. 276-308.
Lengthy breakdown of the similarities in script, peculiarities in
spelling and mistakes in idiom shared by Blavatsky and the K.H. letters
to Sinnett and Hume to prove that "Madame Blavatsky was the writer of
nearly all the K.H. documents which I have seen."
1362. Hudson, Irene Bastow. "Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?'
Answered. Victoria, B.C.: The Author, 1936. 47 pp.
Replies to item 1356.
1363. Hume, Allan Octavian [H.X.]. Hints on Esoteric Theosophy.
Calcutta: Issued under the Authority of the Theosophical Society.
No. 1, 1882. 2nd ed. 131 pp. No. 2, 1883. 74 pp. Rept. Benares
& London: Theosophical Publishing Society; Adyar, Madras: The
Theosophist Office, 1909. 187 pp. 107 pp. No. 1rept. Edmonton:
Edmonton Theosophical Society, 1992. 131 pp. -I- [7 pp.
unnumbered] index.
No. 1 bears the cover sub-title "Is Theosophy a Delusion? Do the
Brothers Exist?" No. 2 is subtitled "Swedenborg and Theosophy." Hume
argues the existence of the "Brothers" under the guise of two letters oi
reply. "The hypothesis of the existence of the Brothers rests partly on a
long series of phenomena, several of which are outside all authenticated
spiritualistic experiences; partly on communications supposed to have
come from them, many received in altogether phenomenal manners, as
for instance, inside letters, sent in some cases by persons knowing
nothing either of Madame Blavatsky or Theosophy...and partly on the
statements of Col. Olcott, Padshah, Damodar...and others, also natives,
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 397
who have publicly testified to seeing one or other of the Brothers." No.
1 adds certificates, statements, and letters of testimony from Indian
Theosophists on seeing the Mahatmas. No. 1 was reprinted by John W.
Lovell of New York with Mabel Collins Cook’s Idyll of the White Lotus
and W.Q. Judge’s Epitome of Theosophy, c. 1890, as one of the volumes
of "Lovell’s Occult Series."
1364.--------[A Student of Occultism], trans. The Paradoxes of the
Highest Science by Eliphas Levi. Calcutta: Calcutta Central Press
Company Ltd., 1883. iv, 115 pp. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1922. xiii, 172 pp. Rept. MokelumneHill, CA:
Health Research, 1969. xiii, 172 pp.
"In which the most advanced truths of occultism are, for the first
time, revealed (in order to reconcile the future developments of Science
and Philosophy with the Eternal Religion)." Of interest for K.H.’s
footnotes as E. O.—"Eminent Occultist."
1365. Humphreys, Christmas. What the Masters Teach. London: The
Theosophical Society in England, [c. 1962]. 14 pp.
Defines the Masters—"The Buddhists call them Arhats and
Bodhisattvas; the Hindus call them Rishis and Mahatmas; the Tibetans
know them as High Incarnations. In the Western tradition, which stems
from the Middle East, they have been known as Hierophants, Magi,
Prophets orjust Initiates"—and propounds their philosophy given through
the Mahatma Letters and Blavatsky’s writings: One Life regulated by the
twin law of Karma and Rebirth.
1366.--------. "Tibetan Buddhism and the Mahatma Letters." The
American Theosophist 60:5 (May 1972): 106-9. Rept. as "The
Two Concentric Circles of Buddhism in Tibet." Ch. 3 in
Exploring Buddhism. London: Allen & Unwin; Wheaton, IL:
Quest Books, 1974, pp. 23-41.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Humphreys posits the Mahatmas within the world of Tibetan
Buddhism as M
in one sense a smaller circle inside a larger one." Says that
their letters and some of Blavatsky’s works are representative of the
Buddhist Esoteric Tradition. "The present fourteenth Dalai Lama when
he signed my travelling copy [of Blavatsky’s Voice of the Silence],
accepted it as akin to the literature of the Yogachara school of the
Mahayana."
1367. Irvine, A. A. "The Mahatma": An Original Comic Operetta in
Two Acts. Lahore: The "Civil and Military Gazette" Press, 1900.
14 pp.
The happiness of two engaged couples is thrown into confusion by
the arrival of a Spiritualist/Theosophist. The ladies succumb to his
fascination, and their beaux disguised as Mahatmas command their
neophyte to renounce the sins of the flesh. The couples are united in the
final act. Time given for the performance: 90 minutes, including a 10
minute interval between acts.
1368. Jinarajadasa, C. Two Great Theosophists—Sir Subramaniya Iyer,
and Alfred Percy Sinnett. Chicago: The Rajput Press, 1911. 14
pp.
Souvenir of the Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the American
Section of the Theosophical Society, Chicago, September 10, 1911. "II
H.P.B. was the perennial fount of occult knowledge for the Society, and
Colonel Olcott its unique organizer, Mr. Sinnett was surely its prepared
herald."
1369.--------. "Two Letters of the Master K.H." The Theosophic
Messenger (Chicago) 12:12 (September 1911): 722-27.
Text and background of the K.H. letters received by C.W.
Leadbeater in 1884.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 399
1370.--------. "A Letter of the Mahatma K.H. to C.W. Leadbeater."
The Theosophist 48:5 (February 1927): 527-28.
Facsimile and text of the K.H. letter precipitated by Blavatsky in
London, Oct. 31/Nov. 1, 1884, advising Leadbeater "The sooner you go
to Adyar the better."
1371.--------. "H.P.B.’s Statement about the Letters of the Masters."
The Theosophist 52:11 (August 1931): 617-20. Rept in The
American Theosophist 24:3 (March 1936): 62-63.
Extract copied by Mary Gebhard from the letter of H.P.B. Jan.
24, 1886 (item 1302) on the psychic means used in the transmission of
Mahatma letters.
1372.--------. "The Egyptian Brotherhood and H.S. Olcott." The
Theosophist 53:11 (August 1932): 479-93.
Five "Serapis" letters from 1875 to Olcott with commentary by C.
Finarajadasa.
1373.--------. "Did Madame Blavatsky Forge the Mahatma Letters?" The
Theosophist, Sept. 1933-Feb. 1934. Rept. Adyar: Theosophical
Publishing House, 1934. 55 pp.
Reproduces facsimiles of six scripts from the Masters connected
with the Theosophical movement in the 19th century, including the letter
received by Mme. Blavatsky’s aunt in 1870 when the whereabouts of her
niece was unknown, along with the handwritings of H.P.B., Damodar,
md Col. Olcott, to answer the question: did Madame Blavatsky forge the
Mahatma letters? Jinarajadasa says NO.
1374.--------. "Did H.P. Blavatsky Invent the Mahatmas?" The
Theosophist, 58:8 (May 1937): 105-9. Rept. in The American
Theosophist 25:6 (June 1937): 123-25.
400 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Mr. Jinarajadasa refutes the claims of the Hares by printing 2
facsimile of a K.H. letter to Annie Besant received nine years aftei
Blavatsky’s death. The full text of this missive, known as the 1900 letter,
is printed in Theosophical History, Oct. 1987, pp. 116-17.
1375.--------. The "K.H.n Letters to C.W. Leadbeater. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1941, 1980. 109 pp.
Lavish presentation of the two letters received by Leadbeater Oct
31/Nov. 1 , 1884, and a note by K.H. on a letter from H.P.B., June 23,
1886, with facsimiles, text, and line by line commentary by C.J.
1376.--------. The Story of the Mahatma Letters. Adyar: Theosophica
Publishing House, 1946. 26 pp.
An account of the various letters received from the Masters anc
how the Mahatma Letters came to be published.
1377.--------, ed. "The Autobiography of A.P. Sinnett." Tht
Theosophist, Dec. 1946, Jan. 1947, pp. 169-76, 233-39.
The segment of Sinnett’s Autobiography covering the period afte:
H.P.B.’s death. Jinarajadasa lived in Sinnett’s home during this time anc
comments on the incidents mentioned.
1378.--------. The Maha Chohan’
s Letter, 1881. Adyar: Theosophica
Publishing House, 1948. 24 pp. 1966, 1973. 27 pp.
Prints the text of this letter based on copies belonging to C.W
Leadbeater and Francesca Arundale with commentary. Settles for th<
1881 date.
1379.--------. "The 1881 Letter. Some Observations." The Americar
Theosophist 36:3 (March 1949): 49-50.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 401
Forms pages 22-27 of item 1378.
1380. Johnson, Paul. In Search of the Masters: Behind the Occult Myth.
South Boston, VA: The Author, 1990. iv, 305 pp.
Claims the Masters were real figures, though not the ones made
out in their correspondence which was a diversion for their political work
in India. Draws parallels with Blavatsky’s early travels and acquaintances
and that of Gurdjieff.
1381. Judge, William Quan. "A Mahatma's Message to Some
Brahmans." The Path 9:1 (March 1895): 430-31. Rept. in item
78.
Letter from B.M. Battacharya sent to Judge in 1893 with a
message from one of the Mahatmas received during the 1880s explaining
why they dealt with sahibs like Sinnett and Hume instead of Indians.
Both Olcott and Besant thought this was not a genuine Mahatmic
message. The original letter from Blavatsky to Sinnett quoting this
"message" is printed in item 1255 as no. 134.
1382. Keightley, Bertram. Masters of Wisdom. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 20, April 1894. 23
pp.
"The substance of an Address delivered to a meeting of the
London Lodge on the 14th of March 1894," with remarks by Sinnett on
3ages 16-23.
1383. Keulemans, J. G. "Koot Hoomi Unveiled." Letter to the Editor,
Light, July 26, 1884, pp. 304-5.
Not convinced by the questions raised in Arthur Lillie’s brochure
'item 1395). If "John King" was Blavatsky’s spirit guide, as Lillie claims,
vhy is he mentioned in Isis Unveiled only once? Besides, John King told
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
him at a recent seance that he did not know Blavatsky personally. Calls
on Theosophists and Spiritualists to join forces against the "ever
increasing and common enemy, Materialism," which "cavilling aboui
Koot-Hoomi” will never lead to.
1384. Khandalavala, N. D. "The Thibetan Adepts and Maru and Devap
of the Puranas." The Theosophist 28:1 (October 1906): 22-27.
Judge Khandalavala quotes and comments on a paper, read by P
Sreenevasa Rao at the Adyar 1884 T.S. Convention, connecting the twc
Masters of Blavatsky with the rishis Maru and Devapi of the Puranas
who "will continue to live throughout the whole four yugas." Gives i
note by Damodar on the resemblance.
1385. Kiddle, Henry. "Esoteric Buddhism." Letter to the Editor, Light
Sept. 1, 1883, p. 302.
Charges Koot Hoomi with having taken a passage "almos
verbatim from an address on Spiritualism by me at Lake Pleasant in Aug
1880, and published the same month by the Banner of Light” (actually
Kiddle’s address, "The Present Outlook of Spiritualism," was publisher
in the Sept. 18, 1880, issue of the Banner). Presents parallel passage*
from his talk and K.H.’s letter in The Occult World (3rd ed., p. 102), bu
without K.H.’s introduction "Plato was right." Replied to by items 1261
1407, 1420, 1421, 1441.
1386.--------. "Koot Hoomi." Letter to the Editor, Light, Dec. 8 , 1883
p. 540.
Mr. Kiddle’s final reply to his critics. Indignantly maintains tha
he "did not translate the [passage] from any of [Plato’s] works."
] 1387.------- . "More on the Theosophical ‘Rosetta Stone.’" Letter to th<
Editor, Light, Sept. 20, 1884, pp. 386-87.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 403
Points out a further passage from his Aug. 1880 talk in K.H.’s
letter to Sinnett. The editor, W. Stainton Moses, appends a note that he
has identified another passage from Kiddle’s speech in the letter.
1388. [Kingsford, Anna, and Edward Maitland.] A Letter Addressed to
the Fellows of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society by
the President and a Vice-President of the Lodge. [Atcham,
Shewsbury, Eng.: The Authors, Dec. 16, 1883.] 39 pp.
Contains Edward Maitland’s "Remarks and Propositions suggested
oy the perusal of Esoteric Buddhism."
1389. [--------, and-------- .] Reply to the "Observations" ofMr. T. Subba
Row, C. T.S., by the President and a Vice-President ofthe London
Lodge, T.S. [Atcham, Shrewsbury, Eng.: The Authors, March 18,
1884.] 31 pp.
Replies to item 1459. Received by London Lodge members March
10, 1884, in advance of the upcoming April Lodge elections. Kingsford
ost to G.B. Finch, who became President.
[390. Kingsland, William, comp. "The Teaching of the Masters of
Wisdom As Given in Their Letters to A.P. Sinnett." The Strand,
Ryde, Eng., [c. 1933]. Mimeograph. 119 pp.
Collates subject matter in The Mahatma Letters under 37 headings,
uch as Adeptship, Buddha, Cosmology, Death and After Death States,
)evachan, God, Karma, Monads, Nirvana, Reincarnation, Spiritualism,
nd Theosophy.
391. [Langford, Laura Holloway.] "The Mahatmas and Their
Instruments." The Word (New York), May, July 1912, pp. 69-76,
200-206. Rept. as "The Portraits of the Mahatmas." ThesPath
(London) 3:4 (October 1912): 148-50. Rept. as "The Portraits of
404 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
the Two Masters." The Theosophist 69:12 (September 1948): 365
70.
Mrs. Langford includes extracts from letters of the Master
received by her in England in 1884. She was present when Hermani
Schmiechen, "a young German artist then residing in London," produce<
the portrait of K.H. that summer. Saw K.H. psychically, who wa
present and guided the artist. Describes him as "about Mohini’s height
slight of build; wonderful face full of light and animation; flowing curl;
black hair, over which is worn a soft cap. He is a symphony of greys an<
blues." The reprints only cover that part of her article dealing with tb
painting of the portraits. In the Sept. 1948 Theosophist C. Jinarajadas;
adds a note on the subsequent location of the pictures.
1392. Lazenby, Charles. "The Masters of Wisdom." The Pati
(Hale/London), June 1911-May 1912. Rept. London: The Patl
Publishing Co., 1917. vii, 78 pp. Rept. in The Work of th
Masters. New York: Vantage Press, 1975, pp. 85-135.
Describes the work of the Masters.
1393. Leadbeater, Charles Webster. "Theosophical Worthies: Alfred
Percy Sinnett." The Theosophist 30:10 (July 1909): 487-92. Rept
in 108:10 (July 1987): 401-4. Rept. in The Theosophica
Messenger 11:4 (June 1910): 201-4.
Names Sinnett as "the man who launched the bark of Theosoph
upon the sea of Western thought." Leadbeater joined the Theosophies
Society sponsored by Sinnett in 1883, and later acted as Secretary of th
London Lodge during Sinnett’s tenure as President.
1394.------- . The Masters and the Path. Adyar: Theosophies
Publishing House, 1925. vii, 389 pp. Chicago: Theosophies
Press, 1925. 354 pp. Rev. & enl. 1927. 506 pp. 1937, 194C
1946, 1953, 1959, 1965. 3rd ed abridged: 1969, 1973, 1975. 4t
ed. 1983, 1984, 1988. xi , 249 pp.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 405
Leadbeater’s personal experiences with the Masters, their
appearance, homelife, and other activities. Identifies seven Masters:
Morya, "a Rajput King by birth" 6 ft. 6 in.; Kuthumi, "a Kashmiri
Brahmin"; Comte de Saint-Germain; Serapis, "a Greek by birth";
Hilarion, another Greek; "the Venetian"; a South Indian, "the spiritual
Regent of India"; and Djwal Kul, Tibetan.
1395. Lillie, Arthur. Koot Hoomi Unveiled; or, Tibetan "Buddhists"
versus the Buddhists of Tibet. London: The Psychological Press
Association, [1884]. 24 pp.
Queries "Are the ‘Brothers’ a myth?" Puts forth a digest of their
:eachings as given in Esoteric Buddhism, contrasting it with what was
cnown of Buddhism from 19th century books. Lillie decides that "the
Buddhism of Esoteric Buddhism is not the Buddhism of Tibet at all. It is
:he Buddhism of the South altered, and indeed, stultified to fit in with the
eaching of a French book of magic written by a gentleman under the
pseudonym of Eliphas Levi." Replied to by items 1341, 1383.
1396.--------. "Koot Hoomi Unveiled." Letter to the Editor, Light, Aug.
2, 1884, pp. 314-15.
Lillie takes on Finch’s Observations (item 1341) on his pamphlet.
'Mr. Finch accuses me of inaccuracy. But in every instance the little
naccuracies lie with Mr. Finch." Counters these by raising further issues,
leplied to by item 707.
1397.--------. "Koot Hoomi." Letter to the Editor, Light, Sept. 6 , 1884,
p. 366.
Replies to Blavatsky’s letter in Light of Aug. 9 (item 707). Lists
our categories of Buddhists in Tibet according to Abbe Hue—Hermits,
Vanderers, Renegades, and Monks—and asks which group K.H. belongs
d. It cannot be the first three, if it is the fourth, then his travels are
iconsistent with his monastic duties. Replied to by item 708.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur
1398. Linton, George E., and Virginia Hanson. Reader's Guide to Th<
Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing
House, 1972. xxi, 308 pp. 1988. xvi, 430 pp.
Creates a chronology for the Mahatma Letters to Sinnett, with ;
letter by letter description of the paper used, color of ink or penci
written in, circumstances, and explanatory references. Alphabetized note
provide information on individuals mentioned in the letters, whil<
appendices contain longer sketches on Sinnett, Hume, Swami Dayananda
and crucial incidents. The 1988 edition enlarges the appendices adding;
description of the K.H. letters, plus a folding map of the relevant area.
1399. Marshall, Charles. "The Mahatma Letters—A Syntati
Investigation into the Possibilities of ‘Forgery’by Helena Petrovn
Blavatsky, a 19th Century Russian Occultist." Viewpoint Aquariu
(London), October 1980, pp. 8-14.
A paper read in Leningrad, Jan. 1980, at the Modem Language
Teachers Institute conference, submitting a computer analysis of the styl
of the two authors of the Mahatma Letters and Blavatsky’s. Marshall say
the results indicate that she was "NOT the ‘co-ordinating forger’ of th
Mahatma Letters to A.P. Sinnett and A.O. Hume." Reviewed by iter
1334.
1400. Massey, Charles Carleton [C.C.M.]. "Reviews: Esoteri
Buddhism." Light (London), June 16, 23, 30, 1883, pp. 278-79
286-88, 298-99.
"It may safely be said that so much definite information aboi
mankind and the universe as this volume contains, has never before bee
given out in so compact a form within literary or linguistic memory. Mi
Sinnett’s style has a business-like directness and an effectiveness whic
compel his reader to take him in earnest and to be in earnest with him.
------- . "The Theosophical Society and Its Critics." Letter to th
Editor, Light, Nov. 17, 1883, pp. 504-5.
1401.
Mahatma Letters and A. P. Sinnett 407
Massey offers his own theory of the Kiddle incident. Mme.
Blavatsky as editor of a magazine like The Theosophist must have read
the Banner of Light with Kiddle’s talk on the front page. "Her mind
would thus be the real point of departure" that K.H. took it from.
"Through the kindness of Mr. Sinnett I have been made familiar with the
handwriting of the letters, and that it bears not the remotest resemblance
to Madame Blavatsky’s."
1402.-------- [C.C.M.]. The Metaphysical Basis of "Esoteric Buddhism."
[London: The Author, March 1884.] 70 pp.
In this "Letter to the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society,"
Massey takes Anna Kingsford’s side in the controversy regarding validity
:>f the philosophy contained in Sinnett’s book.
1403.--------. "The Explanation of the ‘Kiddle Incident’ in the Fourth
Edition of the Occult World." Light (London), July 26, 1884, pp.
307-9.
Reviews K.H.’s explanation to Sinnett about the appearance of
;ome sentences from Henry Kiddle’s 1880 talk in one of his letters—had
>een on horseback for 48 hours, was tired, told the chela to write thus
ind thus. Massey remains unconvinced. "The date of Koot Hoomi’s letter
vould probably be found to tally pretty closely with the arrival of the
lewspaper [with Kiddle’s talk] at Bombay or Madras." Tenders his
esignation from the Society.
4 0 4 .--------- [C.C.M.]. "Mr. Arthur Lillie on the Kiddle Incident."
Letter to the Editor, Light, Aug. 9, 1884, p. 323.
Questions Lillie’s statements in his letter to Light, Aug. 2, 1884
item 1396). "Mr. Lillie has read into Mr. Subba Row’s statements an
llegation it does not contain."
408 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
1405.---------[C.C.M.]. "Misconceptions of Theosophy." Letter to th*
Editor, Light, Aug. 3, 1889, pp. 374-75.
Corrects the letter by "Colenso" in Light, July 27, 1889. "Th<
first presentation of ‘Theosophic’ doctrine in Esoteric Buddhism wai
admittedly defective, and seemed to leave no opening for the influenci
and communications contended for by Spiritualists."
1406. A Master's Letter. Bombay: Theosophy Company, 1934. 10 pp.
Reprints K.H.’s first letter to Hume from The Occult World.
1407. Morgan, Ellen H. "A Defence of Madame Blavatsky’s Views an<
Phenomenal Abilities.” Letter to the Editor, The Medium am
Daybreak (London), Jan. 4, 1884, pp. 5-6.
"With regard to the Henry Kiddle plagiarism: one thing i
perfectly clear, that Mr. Kiddle passed off the saying, that ‘Ideas rule th<
world,’ with the results attendant on them, as his own; when in realit;
they come from Plato,—as asserted by Mahatma Koot Hoomi, an<
disingenuously left out by Mr. Kiddle." Supplies the citations in th
Dialogues of Plato, Vol. 3, pp. 291, 244.
1408. Neff, Mary K. "Echoes from the Past: Precis for Colonel Olcott.
The Theosophist 50:4 (January 1929): 413-15.
Testimony by various prominent Theosophists on phenomen
witnessed relating to the Masters, mainly during 1882.
1409.------- . "Echoes from the Past." The Theosophist 50:6 (Marc
1929): 638-41.
Letters from Prof. John Smith of Australia to Olcott, Feb. 7
1884, and Blavatsky, Jan. 31, 1883, testifying to phenomena with th
Mahatmas.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 409
1410.--------. "The Masters as Journalists." The Theosophist 50:7 (April
1929): 72-77. Rept. in The American Theosophist 32:4 (April
1944): 78-79.
Identifies articles from the Masters in the early issues of The
Theosophist.
1411.--------. "The Hidden Side of The Theosophist." The Theosophist,
Oct.-Dec. 1929, pp. 65-76, 195-206, 329-44.
Further contributions and references to the Masters in the early
Theosophist.
1412.--------. "Echoes of the Past: Master Koot Hoorni." The
Theosophist 51:2 (November 1929): 214-17.
Letter from C.C. Massey to Dr. Hugo Wemekke, Apr. 15, 1883,
isking for information from Prof. G.F. Fechner about an Indian student
K.H.) he may have had contact with in Germany, and the Professor’s
eply naming the Indian.
4 1 3 .--------. "The Phoenix, A Lost Opportunity." The Theosophist 51:4
(January 1930): 399-402.
Cites Mrs. Besant’s New India paper as a fulfillment of Sinnett’s
msuccessful attempt to start a pro-Indian newspaper in the 1880s at the
irging of the Masters.
4 1 4 .--------. "The Masters as Travellers." The Adyar Theosophist 52:3
(December 1930): 133-48.
Information on the visits of K.H. to British India, 1880/83, from
le Mahatma Letters and Blavatsky’s letters to Sinnett.
410 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1415.--------. The "Brothers" of Madame Blavatsky. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1932.vi, 125 pp.
An expansion of Miss Neffs articles on the Masters and theii
literary endeavors on behalf of The Theosophist. Adds chapters or
"Precipitation: One of Their means of Communication," and a column b)
column comparison of the text in the "Kiddle incident."
1416.--------. The Mahatma Letters. Their Chronological Order
Wheaton, IL: The Theosophical Press, 1940. 7 pp.
"Soon after the book, The Mahatma Letters, was published, I wai
at Adyar classifying and filing the archives of the Theosophical Society
The book was an invaluable aid to this work, but there was som<
difficulty in using it: the letters were insufficiently dated or not dated a
all....I decided to try to place the letters in their chronological order, an<
devoted my leisure hours for many months to the task....Some clue, sucl
as the title of an article about to appear in the current Theosophist or j
reference to a subject mentioned in the immediately previous letters, oftei
led (though through mazes of search) to the fitting of that particular lette
into its proper niche."
1417. Olcott, Henry Steel. Extractfrom a private letter of Col Olcott n
Damodar K. Mavalankar, Assistant Corresponding Secretary
dated, Simla, October 4, 1880. N.p., [1880]. 3 pp. Rept. as "Th
Cup and Saucer Phenomena." The Theosophist 47:1 (Octobe
1925): 69-74.
"Printed for private circulation," this leaflet narrates H.P.B.’
materialization of an extra cup and saucer at a picnic at Simla, Oct. 3
1880, with the Sinnetts and their guests. The reprint in The Theosophh
includes a photograph of the cup and saucer now in the Archives of th
Theosophical Society at Adyar. Known as the "purloined letter," it wa
reprinted without permission in The Times of India, Oct. 19, 1880.
Mahatma Letters and A.P, Sinnett 411
1418.--------. "Letter from Col. Olcott to Mr. H—X—." In Hints on
Esoteric Theosophy No. 1 (item 1363), pp. 106-19. Rept. in The
Theosophist 55:8 (May 1934): 161-68.
Olcott writes to Hume (H.X.) from Colombo, Ceylon, Sept. 30,
1881, about his experiences with the Masters. "I have seen, been taught
3y, been allowed to visit, and have received visits from the Brothers. *
3ives particulars.
1419.--------. "The Himalayan Brothers." Letter to the Editor, Psyche
21:1 (March 1882). Rept. in Light (London), Mar. 4, 1882, p.
98.
On his meeting the Theosophical adepts in India. "I know the
brothers to be living men and not spirits; and they have told me that there
ire schools, under appointed adepts, where their Occult science is
egularly taught."
L420.--------. "The Kiddle Mystery." Letter to the Editor, Light, Nov.
17, 1883, p. 504.
Writing as President of the Theosophical Society, Olcott declares
hat he does not think Kiddle’s charge of plagiarism "of much
onsequence. It is highly absurd to think that a mind capable of reducing
d expression in a foreign tongue so lofty a scheme of evolution as that
a Esoteric Buddhism, would be driven to fish for ideas in Mr. Kiddle’s
peeches, or the pages of any Spiritualistic journal."
4 2 1 .--------. "The Theosophical Society." Letter to the Editor, Light,
Oct. 11, 1884, pp. 417-18.
"I have no explanation to offer of the alleged [Kiddle] plagiarisms,
ave that with the properties of the AJcasa (Astral Light), and the
Nations thereto of the human brain, afford." Says he cannot accept the
leory of fraud imputed to men, "so noble and sages so wise as those I
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
have been related to for the past ten years," especially Koot Hoorai,
whom he has "personally met and talked with."
1422.------- . "An Interview with Colonel Olcott." The Daily Chronicle
(London), Sept. 14, 1891, p. 5. Rept. as "Casual Chats witl
Mahatmas." The Pall Mall Gazette, Sept. 14, 1891, p. 6.
"I have seen several Mahatmas—maybe six of them—both in theii
physical forms and in their astral bodies. I saw Kut Humi at Madras, and
I met another Mahatma while I was making a tour in Northern India ir
1883....Remarkably fine looking men, with a spiritual glow in theii
faces....Some people seem to imagine that the Mahatmas are all natives
of India. That is a mistake, for to go no farther than three instances, on<
is Italian, another a Hungarian, a third an Englishman....Somebody has
asked the question, Are there any women Mahatmas? Certainly there an
women of extraordinary powers in Tibet—I have receive*
communications from them—but whether they are Mahatmas, I canno
say."
1423.--------. "A Picnic at Simla." The American Theosophist 36:1
(August 1948): 171, 188.
Excerpt from Old Diary Leaves 2 dealing with the picnic at Siml;
Oct. 3, 1880, where H.P.B. duplicated an extra teacup requested b;
members of Sinnett’s party.
1424. Oliphant, Laurence. "The Sisters of Thibet." The Nineteenti
Century 16 (November 1884): 715-30.
Oliphant argues that if there are "Brothers" in Tibet, then why nc
"Sisters," and proceeds on a fantastical narrative involving the latter.
1425. Oxley, William. "Exoteric Buddhism; or, Buddhism at Home.
Light (London), Oct. 4, 11, 1884, pp. 407-8, 422.
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 413
"What advantage can accrue to Western civilization by reverting
to a system that has so signally failed to produce a higher, purer, and
better form than Christendom already possesses?" Quotes from Among the
Mongols by the Rev. James Gilmour of the London Mission, Peking, to
illustrate the character of the Lamas: "intense worldliness," "unblushing
wickedness," "thievish dishonesty."
1426.--------. "Esoteric and Exoteric Buddhism." Light (London), Jan. j
24, 1885, pp. 37-38. j
i
Challenges Sinnett’s contention that the adept lamas "select their [
own child-bodies." Oxley states that it is done by the Chinese 1
Government. !
1427. Parsons, George Frederick, and Hargrave Jennings. The Occult !
World by A.P. Sinnett Reviewed. Bombay: K.M. Shroff, 1882. 20
pp.
A reprint of two reviews of Sinnett’s Occult World, by George F.
Parsons, editor of the Sacramento-Record Union, and Hargrave Jennings,
mthor of The Rosicrucians. Jennings remarks that "Anglo-India must
lave been much struck with this book. We ourselves have perused every
line of it with pleasure, and have weighed its statements, and considered
ts evidence, with careful and conscientious deliberation."
1428. Pillai, Casava. "How a Hindu of Madras Interviewed a Mahatma
at Sikkim." The Indian Mirror (Calcutta), Mar. 3, 1885. Rept. in
item 1343.
Reveals his relations with the Masters before meeting Mme.
Blavatsky, and corrects some of the statements made by Madame Columb
n her pamphlet (item 1841) about himself. Describes his rail journey
rom Bombay to Sikkim in Sept. 1882 where he met M. and K.H. "in
heir physical bodies."
414 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1429. Prentice, John M. "Alfred Percy Sinnett—A Fragment of
Memory." The Canadian Theosophist41:1 (Mar.-Apr. 1960): 13-
16.
Recalls meeting Sinnett at the 1917 English Section T.S.
Convention in London. "Mr. Sinnett was then an impressive looking old
man—he was 77—with a magnificent white moustache and a beautifully
trimmed beard." According to Prentice "His worst fault was that he was
too much of the Pukka Sahib of Anglo-India in the last decades of the
nineteenth century."
* The President of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society,
See Finch, G.B.
1430. Quodlibet [pseud.]. "The Kiddle ‘Explanation.’" Letter to the
Editor, Light, July 26, 1884, p. 304.
Gives parallel passages from Kiddle’s talk and Koot Hoomi’j
letter, and says that Mme. Blavatsky, because of her animus agains
Spiritualism, is to blame for turning Kiddle’s speech into a diatrib*
against Spiritualists. "She is an ex-Spiritualist and ex-medium, whc
returns constantly to her first love, less to caress than to scold."
1431. Ramaswamier, S. "How a ‘Chela’ Found his Guru." Thi
Theosophist 4:3 (December 1883): 67-69 . Rept. in items 1258
1343.
Extracts from Ramaswamier’s letter to Damodar K. Mavalankar
Oct. 7, 1882, Daijeeling, describing his meeting with Mahatma M. ii
Sikkim. "His complexion is not as fair as that of Mahatma Koot Hoomi
but never have I seen a countenance so handsome, a stature so tall an<
so majestic. As in his portrait, he wears a short black beard, and Ion;
black hair hanging down to his breast; only his dress was different."
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 415
1432. Ransom, Josephine. The Direction of the Theosophical Society by
the Masters of Wisdom. London: Theosophical Publishing House,
1942. 42 pp.
The Blavatsky Lecture for 1942 based on the Mahatma Letters
indicating the development of the objects of the Theosophical Society.
1433. Roger, John. "Adepts and Adept Writing." The Theosophical
Forum (Covina, CA) 22:8 (August 1944): 343-48.
Roger identifies 17 pieces contributed by the Adepts, mainly in
The Theosophist during Mme. Blavatsky’s editorship, 1879-85.
1434. Ryan, Charles J. "Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?" The
Theosophical Forum (Point Loma, CA) 9:4 (October 1936): 253-
63. Rept. [Point Loma, CA, 1936.] 11 pp.
"Even a brief examination of the analysis published by the Messrs.
Hare shows that in spite of their claim to impartiality they have not
disdained to follow the example of the smart prosecuting attorneys who
are determined to get a verdict of guilty at almost any cost." Notes
instances of "numerous errors of fact, misquotations, omissions of vital
words or parts of sentences, appeals to prejudice, and other surprising
disfigurements of this book."
1435.--------. "An Important Correction." Letter to the Editor, Canadian
Theosophist, December 15, 1936, pp. 326-38. Rept. as "The
Hares’ Attack on H.P. Blavatsky. A Note of Warning." Letter to
the Editor, Theosophical Forum, January 1937, pp. 44-49. Rept.
with slight variation as "Was the ‘Mahatma K.H.’ once in
Germany?" Letter to the Editor, The Occult Review, April 1937,
pp. 133, 135, 137, 139, 141.
Disagrees with statements made by H.R.W. Cox in item 1326,
among them that K.H. was Nisi Kanta Chattopadhyaya, the young Hindu
whom Prof. Gustav Fechner remembered meeting in Leipzig in the early
416 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1870s (see item 1412 for his letter). Ryan says Katherine Tingley met the
real person of that name in Bombay in 1896.
1436. Savage, Elsie V. "The Two Masters Behind the Theosophica
Movement." The Theosophical Forum (Point Loma, CA) 15:f
(November 1939): 331-44.
"The Masters are men, not vague, visionary beings or merel)
forces." The two most often named in connection with the Theosophica
movement "are both Indian-born, K.H. being from the Brahmana caste,
and Master M. a Rajput." Deals mainly with "What Constitutes s
Master," and the teachings of M. and K.H. from the Mahatma Letters.
1437. Savage, Helen. "The Hare Attack Repulsed." The Occult Review
(London), October 1936, pp. 251-56. Rept. in The Theosophica\
Forum (Point Loma, CA) 10:1 (January 1937): 36-41.
"The book is filled with rhetorical questions which evidently an
meant to convince the reader by their implications. The authors discredi
the veracity of H.P.B.’s words constantly; yet when they find her saying
something which they think is incriminating to herself, they quote her a*
presumably accurate and therefore to be relied upon." Notes theii
"Hare"-splitting. Replied to by item 1357.
1438. Schutze, Ernest. Appendix to Incidents in the Life of Madamt
Blavatsky by A.P. Sinnett (item 1148), 1886, 1976, pp. 322-24.
This Appendix reprints correspondence from Ernest Schutze
Calligraphist to the Court of H.M. the Emperor of Germany, to G
Gebhard, Feb. 7 and 16, 1886. Herr Gebhard had sent him copies of \
long letter from Blavatsky, Oct. 1885, and a Mahatma letter received ir
his home while she was visiting in Aug. 1884. Schutze’s conclusion was
that both were written by "different handwritings. This, my exper
testimony, I give on the oath, taken by me, once for all, as an expert ii
handwriting." The original translations of this correspondence made b]
Arthur Gebhard, and the calligraph’s detailed analysis of the script, alon\
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 417
with G. Gebhard’s letter to Sinnett about the examination, are printed in
item 674, pp. 348-51.
1439. Shearman, Hugh. "Madame Blavatsky and the Mahatma Letters."
The Theosophist 88:9 (June 1967): 152-60.
Shearman explores the question of the production of the Mahatma
letters. "Very often our very letters—unless something very important and
secret—are written in our handwritings by our chelas," K.H. is cited as
saying in the Mahatma Letters (Letter 53), and Shearman leans toward
Sinnett’s view that the correspondence was colored by Blavatsky’s
transmission. Therefore "they do not constitute an infallible authority."
1440. Sinnett, Alfred Percy. "The Bombay Gazette and the Theosophical
Society." Light (London), May 13, 1882, p. 229.
Letter to the Bombay Gazette replying to their editorial "Pundits
and Disciples." "I was already sure when I wrote The Occult World that
the Theosophical Society was connected through Madame Blavatsky with
the great Brotherhood of adepts I described. I now know this to be the
case with much greater amplitude of knowledge."
1441.--------. "Mr. Sinnett’s Reply to Mr. Kiddle." Letter to the Editor,
Light, Sept. 22, 1883, p. 424.
Points out that the passage Kiddle refers to (in item 1385) is
introduced in K.H.’s letter by the words "Plato was right," suggesting the
real source of the ideas quoted in the letter and Kiddle’s lecture.
1442.--------. "‘The Brothers’ of Theosophy." Light (London), Dec. 22,
29, 1883, pp. 557-59, 568-69.
Evidence for the existence of the "Brothers" from Indian sources.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1443.--------. "Centres of Spiritual Activity. XVI. The Theosophical
Society—London Lodge, Lincoln’s Inn." The Pall Mall Gazette,
Mar. 29, 1884, pp. 1-2.
Outlines the function of the Theosophical Society as an expression
of the work of the Masters in the world. "The adepts of spiritual science,
spoken of in Indian literature and usage as Mahatmas, and by modem
Theosophists as ‘the Brothers,’ have latterly conceived the time ripe foi
giving out some part of the ‘esoteric doctrine,’ of which they are the
custodians."
* --------. The "Occult World Phenomenaand the Society for
Psychical Research. Cited as item 1894.
Provides background on Blavatsky’s production of an extra teacup
at a picnic at Simla in Oct. 1880, and other events that occurred in his
home during her visit at that time, contrasting Richard Hodgson’s
explanations of the same events given in his Report (item 1859).
1444.--------. "Esoteric Buddhism. (A Reply to Professor Max Muller)."
The Nineteenth Century 33 (June 1893): 1015-27. Rept. in The
Collected Works of the Right Hon. F. Max Muller. Vol. 18.
London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1901, pp. 134-55.
Responds to Max Muller’s article in the May 1893 issue of The
Nineteenth Century (item 1036). Sinnett counters that "Professor Max
Muller gives the history of the movement upside down....In 1883 I was
enabled to bring into intelligible shape a view of the origin and destinies
of man derived from certain teachings with which I was favoured while
in India....I took charge of a message and carried it to Western readers."
1445.------- . "Do the Mahatmas Exist?" Letter to the Editor, Light,
Mar. 3, 1894, p. 107.
Charts his introduction to the Masters fifteen years before, from
Mme. Blavatsky and people who knew them physically and astrally,
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 419
giving eight cases. "One all important fact thus revealed was that avenues
of initiation were still open for people who were qualified to advance
along them; that the ‘Masters,’ though in seclusion were not inaccessible
for persons in whom certain interior faculties were ripe for development."
1446.--------. "The Masters and Their Methods of Instruction." The
Messenger (Hollywood, CA), Dec. 1918, Jan. 1919, pp. 193-96,
225-27. Rept. in Collected Fruits of Occult Teaching. London: T.
F. Unwin, 1919. Rept. Philadelphia: J.P. Lippincott, 1920, pp.
147-59.
Sinnett, who contributed to the introduction of the Masters as
personalities to the West, adds to their mythology. "At first in the
imagination of most us they were very mysterious entities." Recites how
he has grown familiar with them.
* --------. The Early Days of Theosophy in Europe. Cited as item
236.
Although this account contains much material on the early
development of the Theosophical Society in England not available
anywhere else, from the 1880s on it is essentially Mr. Sinnett’s story, and
events relating to the London Lodge, which he became President of in
Jan. 1885, feature prominently.
1447.--------. The Autobiography of Alfred Percy Sinnett. London:
Theosophical History Centre, 1986. [ii], 58, + 7 pp.
Visits much the same terrain as his Early Days of Theosophy in
Europe, but his antecedents and early years are introduced, and the later
terrible things that happened to him financially and otherwise (which he
credits to an attack of the Dark Powers) are given in more detail, as are
his relations with "Mary," the medium he used to contact K.H. for almost
a decade till 1897. The story continues through the death of his son
"Denny" from consumption in May, 1908, and that of his wife Patience,
from cancer, on Nov. 9, 1908, the coming into his life after this
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"agonizing period" of the American actress Maude Hoffman, to whom he
left the Mahatma letters, and of a later medium through whom he
regained contact with the Masters. The original 97 page typescript, dated
June 3, 1912, with a ten page addendum covering the years 1916-1920,
has been utilized by a number of Theosophical writers, and the booklet
provides corresponding page numbers for the typed copy which was given
to the T.S. in England in the 1940s by Sinnett’s executrix Miss Hoffman.
1448. Sitaraman, K.R. Isis Further Unveiled: or. Some More Light or
the Pre-W. Q. Judge-Mahatmas. Madras: Addison & Co. for the
Author, 1894. 39 pp.
Sitaraman, the son of S. Ramaswamier who joined th*
Theosophical Society in Sept. 1881, publishes nine communications from
the Masters to his father, 1881-83, along with facsimiles of two of the
letters and a portrait of Mahatma Morya presented to Ramaswamier.
1449. Smith, John [Viator]. "Madame Blavatsky and the Himalayar
Brothers." Light (London), July 29, 1882, p. 356.
Reprinted from the Melbourne Harbinger of Light, Smith, i
member of the Australian Legislative Council and a Professor at Sydne)
University, testifies to phenomena relating to the "Brothers," while
visiting the Theosophists at Bombay in 1882.
1450. Spierenburg, H.J. "Dr. Rudolf Steiner on the Mahatmas." Trans
by J.H. Molijn. Theosophical History (London), Oct. 1986, Jan
1987, pp. 211-23, 23-31.
Dr. Steiner’s statements on the Masters behind the Theosophica
movement. Spierenburg shows a shift from Steiner’s early patronizing
attitude of 1903-1907, to his later view after breaking with th<
Theosophists, contrasting the approach of Occidental-Christian Master:
with the Oriental adepts. In a 1912 talk Steiner revealed that the "Tibetan
Indian, but also the Egyptian initiation of the moment only want to tak
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 421
revenge on the western world because of the suppression of eastern
occultism."
1451. Stewart, C. Nelson. "The Master Hilarion." The Theosophist j
(Hollywood, CA) 1:10 (October 1930): 869-73.
Identifies the past incarnations of "the Adept who writes stories
with H.P.B."—a disciple of Orpheus, "about 7,000 B.C.," Paul of
Tarsus, Iamblichus, Archbishop Hilarion, 17th cent., the Greek
Archimandrite, and as Master Hilarion of Cyprus.
1452. Stokes, Henry Newlin. "Demolishing the Mahatmas." The O.E.
Library Critic (Washington, D.C.) 24:3 (June-July 1936).
1453.--------. "Did H.P. Blavatsky Write These Mahatma Letters?" The
O.E. Library Critic 24:4 (Aug.-Sept. 1936).
1454.--------. "The Bogus Mahatmic Americanisms of the Brothers
Hare." The O.E. Library Critic 24:5 (October 1936).
1455.--------. "Choice Tidbits From the Hares’ Book on the Mahatma
Letters." The O.E. Library Critic 24:6 (November 1936).
1456.--------. "The Hare Brothers’ Arsenal of Duds." The O.E. Library
Critic 24:7 (December 1936).
L457.--------. "The Hare Brothers on the Motives of H.P. Blavatsky."
The O.E. Library Critic 24:8 (January 1937).
4 5 8 .--------. "The Hares on He-Mahatmas and She-Mahatmas." The
O.E. Library Critic 24:10 (March 1937).
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
These seven pieces represent a relentless month by month review
by the editor of the Critic on item 1356, showing how the authors chose
to ignore or suppress, when not botching, points that would invalidate
their argument. In his evaluation of the Hares’ claim that the English of
the Mahatma letters exhibited a tendency toward "Americanisms," Stokes
shows that of their twenty-seven examples, "twenty-three cannot be
assigned to an American origin," providing instances of usage by
Shakespeare, Ben Johnson, Dryden, De Quincy, Byron, Dickens,
Tennyson, and many others. Stokes also ferreted out the fact that the
examination of the script of the Mahatma letters by W.L. Hare was the
work of one evening of five hours, possibly another evening being
devoted to the Blavatsky letters. He estimated that the time spent on each
letter would have been "less than two minutes each." Stokes ends up
characterizing their book as "a perfect Noah’s Ark of misstatements and
quibblings and false deductions from false premises."
* A Student of Occultism. See Hume, Allan Octavian
1459. Subba Row, T. Observations on ”
A Letter Addressed to the
Fellows of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, by the
President and a Vice-President of the Lodge." Madras: Graves,
Cookson & Co., 1884. 45 pp.
Comments by Subba Row on item 1388 by Anna Kingsford and
Edward Maitland. "I could not help coming to the conclusion that the
writers of the letter have greatly misunderstood the relations of the
Himalayan Brotherhood to the Theosophical Society, and the peculiai
circumstances under which Mr. Sinnett’s book on Esoteric Buddhism was
written." Contains four footnotes by H.P.B.. Replied to by item 1389.
1460. Thomas, M.A. "Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?" The Canadian
Theosophist 17:6 (August 15, 1936): 167-70.
One of the earliest full appraisals of item 1356 in the Theosophica
press, Miss Thomas confines her attention to verifying a few of the
Mahatma Letters and A.P. Sinnett 423
statements in the Mahatma Letters pointed out as "errors" by the Hares.
Calls their attempt "hare-brained."
* Viator. See Smith, John
1461. Wood, Ernest. "The Masters’ Signatores." The Theosophist 58:3
(December 1936): 259-62.
Wood proclaims the Sanskrit criticisms of the Hares on the
Mahatma letters "practically all and entirely wrong."
1462. Yeats, William Butler. "Occult Notes and Diary." Appendix A in
Memoirs ed. by Denis Donoghue. London: Macmillan, 1972, pp.
281-82.
A transcription of Yeats’ Journal kept from Oct. 1889 to Jan.
1890, as a member of Blavatsky’s Esoteric Section (National Library of
Ireland MSS. 13570), where he evolves four possible explanations for the
nature of Blavatsky’s Mahatmas. "The fraud theory in its most
pronounced form I have never held for more than a few minutes as it is
wholly unable to cover the facts."
CHAPTER 7
Other Nineteenth Century Works by
Theosophists
Introducing the bibliography to his 1930 study Theosophy (150), Dr.
Kuhn felt it necessary to add the following note: "Literature bearing more
or less directly upon the general theme of Theosophy is so enormous that
several thousand titles would not exhaust the body of works touching
upon the subject....It is difficult to determine a specifically Theosophic
book from those that deal with phases of mysticism, esotericism and
occultism in general. Books of the sort are all more or less amenable to
the classification as Theosophic." By the late 1920s the literature of
Theosophy had indeed become prodigious, and, reaching a growing
audience, many ideas previously identified as Theosophical gained wider
circulation. But in the 19th century the distinction was not as blurred.
During the first fourteen years of the movement, from 1875 to 1889,
few specifically Theosophical books were published. Mme. Blavatsky’s
1877 Isis Unveiled (616), which can be said to have initiated modem
Theosophical literature, was an outline of the vast field of proposed
study, marshalling evidence for the survival of occultism. A.P. Sinnett’s
Occult World (1261) issued in 1881 was the first Theosophical best-seller,
but it was really a record of his relations with the Indian adepts behind
the movement. A chapter devoted to the "Teachings of Occult
Philosophy" consisted of passages from Isis Unveiled on topics such as
nirvana. Yet even here Sinnett felt constrained to add that "neither in Isis,
nor any other book on occult philosophy which has been or seems likely
to be written yet awhile, must anyone hope to obtain a cut-and-dried,
426 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
straight forward and perfectly clear account of the mysteries of birth,
death and the future."
Sinnett sought to remedy this by the publication in 1883 of Esoteric
Buddhism (1265), based on further correspondence with Blavatsky’s
Indian Mahatmas. Chapters discussed the physical, mental, spiritual
constitution of the individual, the planetary chain, cycles, after-death
states, the progress of humanity, the nature of the Buddha and nirvana.
Readers were introduced to Theosophical ideas of evolutionary rounds
and races, days and nights of Brahma, the heaven world of Devachan, the
rationale of rebirth. Although choosing to label such ideas "Esoteric
Buddhism," Sinnett explained that "This secret knowledge, in reality,
long antedated the passage through earth-life of Gautama Buddha.
Brahminical philosophy, in ages before Buddha, embodied the identical
doctrine which may now be described as Esoteric Buddhism. Its outlines
had indeed been blurred; its scientific form partially confused; but the
general body of knowledge was already in possession of a select few
before Buddha came to deal with it. Buddha, however, undertook the task
of revising and refreshing the esoteric science of the inner circle of
initiates, as well as the morality of the outer world."
Until the appearance of Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine (621) in 1888,
Esoteric Buddhism remained the main book placing the ideas that would
become identified as Theosophy in a coherent form. In the interim
Theosophists were urged, according to a "Partial List of Books
Recommended for Purchase by Theosophical Societies" circulated in
1882, to study the literature of mesmerism and animal magnetism, works
that explained the phenomena of Spiritualism in a scientific way, such as
those of William Crookes and A.R. Wallace, the writings of Thomas
Paine and prominent American freethinkers D.M. Bennett and Col.
Robert Ingersoll, books on symbolism and mythology, and Edwin
Arnold’s Light of Asia.
Magazine articles provided the major source of nascent Theosophical
literature. Mme. Blavatsky had been editing the monthly Theosophisl
from India since 1879. The material for Esoteric Buddhism had initiall)
appeared in The Theosophist as "Fragments of Occult Truth." William
Quan Judge began publishing The Path from New York in March 1886,
and Mme. Blavatsky issued a new magazine from London in Sept. 1887
named Lucifer. The Theosophical Publishing Company was formed in
May 1887 to issue Lucifer, and in 1888 began reprinting articles undei
the title of Theosophical Siftings, "A series of pamphlets of great value,
427
replete with interest for every student of Theosophy and Occultism."
Each pamphlet, usually between 16 and 20 pages, sold for sixpence, and
was later bound. Seven volumes of eighteen pamphlets each were released
by 1895.
The publication of the two volumes of Mme. Blavatsky’s long
awaited Secret Doctrine at the end of 1888 supplied a mine of
information. Throughout its 1500 pages she explained the origin of the
universe and the evolution of humanity, comparing and contrasting her
theories with the views of science and religion. A year later she provided
Theosophists with The Key to Theosophy, being a ClearExposition, in the
form of Question and Answer, of the Ethics, Science, and Philosophyfor
the study of which the Theosophical Society has been founded (630),
further defining post-mortem states, the mysteries of reincarnation and the
nature of the ego.
It was enough material for a lifetime of study, and Theosophists set
to work to provide digests for the general public. Judge’s Ocean of
Theosophy (1678) is still used as an introductory textbook to the tenets of
the movement, and the slim manuals by Annie Besant and C.W.
Leadbeater on The Seven Principles ofMan (1485), Reincarnation (1487),
Death and After (1492), Karma (1507), Man and His Bodies (1522), The
Astral Plane (1703), The Devachanic Plane (1706), remain in print.
Meditation and the spiritual life were addressed by Mabel Collins Cook’s
enormously popularLight on the Path (1575) and Blavatsky’s Voice ofthe
Silence (634). A knowledge of Sanskrit literature was considered an asset
and both Besant and Judge produced translations of the Bhagavad~gita.
Theosophists were introduced to the Upanishads through the translations
of Charles Johnston, and the works of Sankara were translated by Mohini
Chatteiji and Manilal Dvivedi.
An 1892 "Catalogue of the Occult Library of George Edward
Wright" provides an indication to the sort of literature that interested
Theosophists. Wright was President of the Chicago Branch of the Society
and instrumental in having a Theosophical Congress held during the 1893
Chicago World Parliament of Religions. His library contained many of
the same works cited by Blavatsky in Isis Unveiled and The Secret
Doctrine, from Godfrey Higgins’ 1836 Anacalypsis to Horace Hayman
Wilson’s six volume translation of the Vishnu Purana. Books on
astronomy, alchemy and archeology featured prominently, as well as the
36 volumes of the Sacred Books of the East edited by Max Muller, which
supplied the texts of Confucianism and Taoism, Pahlavi texts, the Koran,
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
and Hindu and Buddhist sutras. He had Sanskrit grammars, the Popul
Vuh, the RGmdyana, the works of Plato and the Neo-Platonists, along
with those of Thomas Huxley. Similarly, the 1895 catalogue of the
London Theosophical Publishing Society offered not only works about
Theosophy, but also five translations of the Bhagavad-gita, 22 books on
Buddhism, works on Hegel, yoga, and assorted Hermetica.
While the average Theosophist may not have been as widely read,
these lists show what was available through associates or the local lodge
library. Certainly most Theosophists in the 19th century were familial
with the ideas in Sinnett’s Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism. That
Blavatsky’s Key to Theosophy had to be reprinted a year after it was
issued is some measure of its popularity. But it was through many of the
smaller booklets and pamphlets, based on what was being discussed at
meetings of the Theosophical Society, that members formed their ideas
about Theosophy. Ideas where the notion of karma and reincarnation,
which in turn required the human entity be viewed in a certain way,
played a prominent part. Most Theosophists at the time would probabl)
have found their beliefs summed up by the statement in Mabel Collin*
Cook’s 1884 Idyll of the White Lotus (1574):
The soul of man is immortal, and its future is the future of a
thing whose growth and splendour have no limit.
The principle which gives life dwells in us and without us, is
undying and eternally beneficent, is not heard or seen or smelt,
but is perceived by the man who desires perception.
Each man is his own absolute lawgiver, the dispenser of glory
or gloom to himself; the decreer of his life, his reward, his
punishment.
In this chapter will be found translations from Indian and othei
scriptures. These do not exhaust such works that appeared under th<
imprint of Theosophical publishers. Theosophists brought a particula
interpretation to their translations, and their introductions and notes make
such works truly worthy of consideration as part of Theosophica
literature. Translations that appeared prior to the founding of th<
Theosophical Society and are simply reprints by Theosophists have no
been listed.
429
1463. Adams, E. The Bhagavad-Gita, or Song Celestial. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. 20 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VI, 1.
1464.--------. Moral Aspects of Karma. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1894. 24 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VII, 1.
* Amaravella. See Coulomb, Edouard J.
1465. Anderson, Jerome A. The Scientific Evidencefor the Existence of
the Soul. San Francisco: Pacific Coast Headquarters, T.S., [c.
1890]. 15 pp.
1466.--------. Reincarnation. A Study ofthe Human Soul. San Francisco:
Lotus Publishing Co., May 8, 1893. xii, 250 pp. Rept. March 15,
1894. xii, 192 pp. May 1896.
Subtitled: "A Study of the Human Soul in Relation to Re-Birth,
Evolution, Post-Mortem States, the Compound Nature of Man,
Hypnotism, etc."
1467.--------. Septenary Man; or, The Microcosm of the Macrocosm.
San Francisco: Lotus Publishing Co., Dec. 25, 1895. xxv, 122
pp.
Subtitled: "In relation to the various vehicles, or avenues of
consciousness (technically known as the seven principles) by means of
which it brings itself into relation with the outer cosmos; including a brief
examination of dreams and the problems of heredity."
430 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1468.--------.Karma. A Study of the Law of Cause and Effect. San
Francisco: Lotus Publishing Co., Dec. 25, 1896. viii, 126 pp.
Subtitled: "In relation to rebirth or reincarnation, post-mortem
states of consciousness, cycles, vicarious atonement, Fate, Predestination,
Free Will, Forgiveness, Animals, Suicides, etc."
1469.--------. The Evidence of Immortality. San Francisco: Lotus
Publishing Co., 1899. 171 pp.
1470. [------- , and E. August Neresheimer.] The Relation of Universal
Brotherhood to Christianity. [London: Katherine Tingley, 1899.
39 pp.
Issued as part of the series "The Pith and Marrow of Some Sacred
Teachings."
* Aretas. See Pryse, James Morgan
1471. Arundale, Francesca. A Paper on Reincarnation. Transactions ol
the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 5, March 1885
23 pp.
"Read at an open meeting of the London Lodge, on the 4th Marcl
1885." A four page version of this address was printed by the Hindi
Tract Society of Madras in Feb. 1889 as Tract No. 22; English No. 3
1472.--------. The Idea of Re-Birth. With a Preface by A.P. Sinnett
London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co., 1890. xxii, 155 pp
Includes a translation of an Essay on Re-Incarnation from the
German of Karl Heckel.
Works by Theosophists 431
1473. Barnett, M.J. A Practical View of Karma. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, April 1891. 14 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 14.
1474.--------. Simple Theosophy. Boston: H.H. Carter; Colby & Rich,
[c. 1891]. 55 pp.
A reprint of articles written for the Boston Evening Transcript,
\pril 1891.
1475. Beane, Veronica M. Jesus the Initiate. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, May 1891. 7 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 15.
1476. Besant, Annie, and Herbert Burrows, comp. A Short Glossary of
Theosophical Terms. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1891. 12 pp.
L477.--------.The Sphinx of Theosophy. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, [1891]. 19 pp.
1478.--------. In Defence of Theosophy. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, [1891]. 20 pp.
A lecture delivered in St. James Hall, London, Oct. 9, 1891.
L479.--------. Mrs. Annie Besant and Theosophy. Glasgow: Printed for
the Booksellers, [c. 1891]. 16 pp.
A lecture delivered in Glasgow, Oct. 11, 1891.
432 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1480.--------. Theosophy and Its Evidences. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, [c. 1891]. 24 pp. Rept. Bombay, n.d. 15 pp.
1481.--------. The Theosophic Life. London: [H.P.B. Press], n.d. 2 pp.
1482.------- . Why You Should Become a Theosophist. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, [1892]. 7 pp. Rept. Madras:
Indian Section, Theosophical Society, 1893. 8 pp.
Theosophical Tracts No. 1.
1483.--------. Theosophy and the Society ofJesus. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1892. 8 pp.
Theosophical Tracts No. 2. Replies to item 309.
1484.--------. Theosophy and Christianity. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, [c. 1892]. 18 pp.
1485.--------. The Seven Principles of Man. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society; New York: The Path; Madras: The
Theosophist Office, Adyar, 1892. 88 pp. rev. & corn [1897]. 9C
pp.
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 1.
1486.--------. The Place of Peace. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1892, 1894. 14 pp.
1487.--------. Reincarnation: A manual on rebirth and evolution
London: Theosophical Publishing Society; New York: The Path
Works by Theosophists 433
Madras: The Theosophist Office, Adyar, 1892. 88 pp. 1897. 79
pp. 3rd & rev. ed 1898. iv, 66 pp.
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 2.
1488.--------. A Rough Outline of Theosophy. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1892. 21 pp. Rept. Madras: Indian Section,
Theosophical Society, 1895. 16 pp.
A lecture delivered at South Place Institute.
1489.--------. What Theosophy Is. [London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, c. 1892.] 6 pp. 7 pp.
Theosophical Tracts Nos. 4A and 4.
1490.--------. Theosophy. Melbourne, Australia: Basil J. Atterbury,
1892. 7 pp.
"A reprint of an article for The Ludgate Monthly."
1491.--------. Theosophy and Its Practical Application. [London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892/93.] 8 pp.
Theosophical Tracts No. 5. "Originally issued by the Chicago
Literary Press Bureau."
--------. An Exposition of Theosophy. Boston: The Boston
Theosophical Publishing Co., 1893. 30 pp. Rept. as Theosophy in
Question and Answers. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1893. 26 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
This is a reprint of the long interview by "Nym Crinkle" [Andrev
Wheeler] with Besant from the N.Y. World of Feb. 26, 1893, "What L
Theosophy?" cited as item 463.
1492.--------. Death and After? London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1893. 85 pp. 1894. 96 pp. 1898. 85 pp.
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 3.
1493.--------. A Word on Man, his Nature and his Powers. London
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. 16 pp. Rept. Bombay
Manmohandas D. Shroff, F.T.S., [1893/94]. 16 pp.
"A Lecture delivered on board the Kaisar-i-Hind, in the Red Sea
Oct. 30th 1893." Issued as Theosophical Siftings VI, 14.
1494.--------. Theosophy is a System of Truths Discoverable am
Verifiable by Perfected Men. Bombay, n.p., [1893/94]. 7 pp.
A talk given Sept. 15 at the 1893 Chicago Theosophical Congress
Included in its Report of Proceedings (item 250).
1495.--------. Karma, the Law of Causation, of Justice, and tfa
Adjustment of Effects. Bombay, n.p., [1893/94]. 9 pp.
A talk given Sept. 15 at the 1893 Chicago Theosophical Congress
Included in item 250.
1496.------- . Theosophy and Modern Social Problems. Bombay, n.p.
[1893/94]. 12 pp.
A talk given Sept. 16 at the 1893 Chicago Theosophical Congress
Included in item 192.
Works by Theosophists 435
1497.--------. Theosophy and Ethics. Bombay, n.p., [1893/94]. 11 pp.
A talk given Sept. 16 at the 1893 Chicago Theosophical Congress.
Included in item 250.
1498.--------. The Building of the Kosmos, and other lectures. Madras:
The Theosophist, 1894. 93 pp. Rept. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1894. 157 pp.
Four lectures delivered at the 18th Annual Convention of the
rheosophical Society, Adyar, Madras, Dec. 27-30, 1893. 1. The Building
>fthe Kosmos: (I) Sound, (II) Fire; 2. Yoga; 3. Symbolism. "Theosophy
s a fragment of the Brahma Vidya of pre-Vaidic days."
4 9 9 .--------. India's Mission in the World. Bombay: Manmohandas
Dayaldas Shroff, F.T.S., 1894. 7 pp.
First lecture delivered at the Calcutta Town Hall, reprinted from
lie National Guardian Feb. 5, 1894.
5 0 0 .--------. The Culture of the Soul. Transactions of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 22, June 1894. 14 pp.
"An Address delivered by Mrs. Besant on the 5th of June, at [a]
leeting of the London Lodge, on Indian Methods of Spiritual Self
lulture."
5 0 1 .--------. An Introduction to Theosophy. London and Benares:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1894, 1895, 1896. 31 pp.
"Printed by the Blavatsky Lodge, T.S. London, for free
istribution to Visitors and Enquirers."
436 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1502.--------. The Meaning and JJse of Pain. London: Theosophica]
Publishing Society, 1894. 19 pp.
1503.--------. Vegetarianism in the Light of Theosophy. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1894. 22 pp.
1504.------- . The Self and Its Sheaths. Benares: Theosophica
Publishing Society; Madras: Theosophist Office, Adyar; London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 86 pp.
Four lectures delivered at the 19th Anniversary of thf
Theosophical Society at Adyar, Madras, Dec. 25-28, 1894. 1. The Sel:
and Its Sheaths; 2. The Body of Action; 3. The Body of Feeling; 4. Tht
Object of the Sheaths.
1505.--------. The Masters as Facts and Ideals. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1895. 35 pp.
A lecture delivered in London, April 27, 1895.
1506.--------. Devotion and the Spiritual Life. Benares and London
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 20 pp.
1507.--------. Karma: A manual on the Law of Cause and Effect
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895, 1897. 77 pp.
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 4.
1508.--------. The Place of Politics in the Life of a Nation. Benares
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 26 pp.
Works by Theosophists 437
1509.--------. Materialism, Undermined by Science. Benares:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 21 pp.
1510.--------. The Pilgrimage of the Soul. Benares: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1895. 24 pp.
1511.--------. The Use of Evil. Benares: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1895. 27 pp.
1512.--------. Eastern Castes and Western Classes. Benares:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 24 pp.
1513.--------. The Means ofIndiafs Regeneration. Benares: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1895. 31 pp.
1514.--------. The Birth and Evolution of the Soul. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895, 1896. 56 pp.
1515.--------. In the Outer Court. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1895, 1898. 164 pp.
"Verbatim reports of a series of lectures given in the Blavatsky
-odge, London, at the Headquarters of the European Section of the
rheosophical Society, during August 1895." 1. Purification; 2.
rhought-Control; 3. Building of Character; 4. Spiritual Alchemy; 5. On
he Threshold.
5 1 6 .--------. Theosophy and Its Teachings. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1895. 20 pp.
438 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1517.--------, trans. The Bhagavad-Gita; or The Lord's Song. London
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895, 1896. xii, 168 pp.
1518.--------. Theosophical Essays. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1895.
This is actually a collection of Besant’s previous pamphlets bounc
together. Contains 463, 1476, 1477, 1478, 1482, 1484, 1488, 1501
1516.
1519.------- . The Future That Awaits Us. Transactions of the Londoi
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 28, January 1896. 24 pp.
"Being the substance of an Address delivered at a Meeting of th<
London Lodge, on the 25th November, 1895, by Mrs. Besant."
1520.------- . The Path of Discipleship. Madras: Theosophist Office
1896. 131 pp.
Four lectures delivered at the 20th Anniversary of th<
Theosophical Society at Adyar, Madras, Dec. 27-30, 1895. 1. Firs
Steps; 2. Qualifications for Discipleship; 3. The Life of the Disciple; 4
The Future Progress of Humanity.
1521.--------. Theosophy and the Law of Population. London an<
Benares: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896. 15 pp.
A seven page version exists reprinted from an article of the sami
title in Lucifer, July 1891.
1522.--------. Man and His Bodies; a study of the physical an*
superphysical bodies used by man. London: Theosophies
Publishing Society, 1896. 114 pp.
Works by Theosophists 439
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 7.
1523.--------. The Law of Sacrifice. Bombay: Manmohandas D. Shroff,
F.T.S., n.d. 24 pp.
"Series of discourses delivered to the members of the Theosophical
Society in Benares, 1896."
1524.--------. Four Great Religions; a Theosophical Study in
Comparative Religion. Madras: Theosophist Office; London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1897. 172 pp.
Four lectures delivered on the 21st Anniversary of the
rheosophical Society, at Adyar, Madras, 1896. 1. Hinduism; 2.
Zoroastrianism; 3. Buddhism; 4. Christianity.
1525.--------. The Three Paths to Union with God. Benares and London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1897. 70 pp.
Lectures delivered at Benares at the 6th Annual Convention of the
[ndian Section of the Theosophical Society, Oct. 19-21, 1896. 1. Karma
Vlarga; 2. Jnana Marga; 3. Bhakti Marga.
1526.--------. Man the Master of His Destiny and the Aryan Type.
Bombay: Manmohandas D. Shroff, F.T.S., [1896/97]. 17 pp.
Kumbakonam: Kumbakonam Branch, Theosophical Society, 1896.
16 pp.
Lecture delivered at Karachi, December 9, 1896.
[527.--------. The Ancient Wisdom; an outline of Theosophical
Teachings. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1897, 1899.
xiv, 432 + index liv pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"Man’s ascent through the physical, astral, mental, buddhic and
nirvanic planes by means of reincarnation and karma."
1528.--------. Man’s Place and Functions in Nature. London
William Reeves For the Humanitarian League; Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1897. 16 pp.
1529.--------. Clairvoyance and Mental Healing. San Francisco:
Mercury, [c. 1897/98]. 23 pp.
"Lecture by Mrs. Annie Besant, at Steinway Hall, Chicago."
1530.--------.Occultism, Semi-Occultism and Pseudo-Occultism.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 23 pp.
"A lecture delivered on Thursday, June 30th 1898, at the
Blavatsky Lodge, London."
1531.--------. Esoteric Christianity. /. The Hidden Side of Religions
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 16 pp.
1532.--------. Esoteric Christianity. II. The Trinity; Divine Incarnation
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 16 pp.
1533.--------. Esoteric Christianity. III. The Atonement and the Law o
Sacrifice. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 19 pp
1534.--------. Esoteric Christianity. TV. Sacraments & Revelation.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 23 pp.
Works by Theosophists 441
1535.--------. Esoteric Christianity. V. Natural and Spiritual Bodies,
Resurrection and Ascension. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1898. 19 pp.
These five lectures, items 1531-35, delivered Sunday July 3, 17,
i4, 31, and Aug. 7, 1898, were sold individually as penny pamphlets.
1536.--------. Emotion, Intellect, and Spirituality. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1898. 26 pp.
"A lecture delivered on 7 July, 1898, at Blavatsky Lodge,
^ondon."
5 3 7 .--------. Individuality. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1898. 23 pp.
"A Lecture delivered on Thursday, July 21st 1898 at the Blavatsky
.odge, London."
5 3 8 .--------. Evolution ofLife and Form. Madras: Theosophist Office,
1899. 153 pp.
Four lectures delivered at the Adyar Convention, Dec. 1898. 1.
Ancient and Modem Science; 2. Functions of the Gods; 3. Evolution of
-ife; 4. Evolution of Form.
5 3 9 .--------. Dharma. Benares: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1899.
70 pp.
Three lectures delivered at the 8th Annual Convention of the
ndian Section, held at Benares on Oct. 25-27, 1898.
5 4 0 .--------. On Some Difficulties of the Inner Life. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1899. 27 pp.
442 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1541.--------, ed. TheDoctrine ofthe Heart; extractsfrom Hindu letters.
With a Foreword by Annie Besant. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1899. 85 pp.
Issued as No. 4 of the series "Lotus Leaves."
1542.--------. The Story of the Great War; some lessons from the
Mahabharatafor the use ofHindu students in the schools ofIndia.
Benares: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1899. 271 pp.
Notes of lectures originally delivered at the Central Hindu College,
Benares.
1543. Bhashyacharya, N., and S.E. Gopalacharlu, comp. A Catechism
ofthe Visishtadwaita Philosophy ofSri Ramanujacharya. Madras:
The Theosophical Society, 1888. 2nd ed. 1890. x, 96 pp.
Carries a preface by H.S. Olcott, Dec. 28, 1887.
1544. Bilimoria, Nasarvanji F., comp. Zoroastrianism in the Light oj
Theosophy. Bombay: Blavatsky Lodge, Theosophical Society,
[1896]. xxiv, 363 pp.
"Being a collection of Selected Articles from the Theosophical
Literature."
1545. A Brahmin F.T.S. Thoughts on Bhagavad Gita. Kumbakonam,
India: Kumbakonam Branch, Theosophical Society, 1893. Vol. 1.
162 pp.
"A series of twelve lectures read before the Branch Theosophical
Society, Kumbakonam." An interpretation of the Gita according to the
Puranas and Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine.
Works by Theosophists 443
1546. Brainard, M.L. The Way to the Path Lies through the Gate of
Knowledge ofthe Inner Constitution. Cleveland, OH: The Dharma
Press, 1892. 8 pp.
1547. Brodie-Innes, John William. An Elementary Note on the Seven
Principles. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891. 20 /
pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings IV, 16.
i
I
!
1
1548.--------. The True Church of Christ, Exoteric and Esoteric.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 130 pp.
An attempt "to translate the language and functions of the Church
into Eastern phraseology," to which is added an appendix on the seven
principles in man, and a short glossary of Sanskrit and Theosophical
terms.
1549. Buck, Jirah Dewey. The Nature and Aim of Theosophy.
Cincinnati, OH: Robert Clarke & Co., 1886. 42 pp. 2nd ed.
1889. 55 pp.
1550.--------. The Secret Doctrine of the Ancient Mysteries. Cincinnati, |
OH: Robert Clarke & Co., 1886. 32 pp. \
1551.--------. The Perfect Man is the Anthropomorphic God, Christos.
Chicago: Hermetic Publishing Co., 1889. 26 pp.
--------. A Study of Man and the Way to Health. Cincinnati, OH:
Robert Clarke & Co., 1889. xxii, 302 pp.
444 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1553.--------. Light and Life. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, Dec. 1890. 6 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 9. "Depolarize Akasa and i!
becomes Mulaprakrita."
1554.------- . Mystic Masonry, or The Symbols ofFreemasonry and the
Greater Mysteries of Antiquity. Cincinnati, OH: Robert Clarke
Co., 1896, 1897. xxvii, 265 + 14 plates.
Traces Masonic symbolism back to the "old wisdom religion" oj
ancient India, quoting Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine.
1555. Budd, Harry Steele. The Story of Osiris. New York: Theosophies
Society, American Section, July 1894. 19 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 43.
1556. Burrows, Herbert. Theosophy and Roman Catholicism. London:
Printed on the H.P.B. Press, [1892]. 8 pp.
Replies to item 309, and two sermons in the Sept. 1892 Catholic
Times. "Theosophical Tracts No. 3."
1557.--------. Theosophy and Life. Madras: Issued by the Surat Brand
T.S. for free distribution, [c. 1890s]. 6 pp.
1558. C. The Myth of Prometheus, or, the Coming of Creative Power tc
Man. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1894. 24 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VII, 8.
Works by Theosophists 445
1559. Caithness, Marie, Duchesse de Pomar, Countess of. The Mystery
of the Ages, contained in the Secret Doctrine of all Religions.
London: C.L.H Wallace for the Authoress, 1887. 541 pp.
1560. Camp, F.M. Griswold. Answered Queries on Theosophy,
Universal Brotherhood, Karma, andRe-incarnation. Wilkinsburg,
PA: The Author, 1893. 35 pp.
1561. Chatteiji, Mohini M. Questions by Members dealt with by Mr.
Mohini at a Meeting of the Lodge held on the 11th June, 1884.
Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 1,
June 1884. 19 pp.
1562.--------. On the Higher Aspects of Theosophical Studies.
Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 3,
January 1885. 17 pp.
Read at an open meeting of the London Lodge, Dec. 10, 1884.
1563.--------. The Theosophical Society and its Work. Transactions of
the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 8, December
1885. 14 pp.
"A Paper read at a meeting of the London Lodge, on the 25th of
November, 1885." The first of the Lodge Transactions to be distributed
by the London publisher George Redway.
1564.--------, comp. Five Years of Theosophy. London: Reeves and
Turner, 1885. 575 pp. Rept. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1894. 385 pp.
Forty-one articles selected from The Theosophist, classified under
leadings of "Mystical," "Philosophical," "Theosophical," "Historical,"
ind "Scientific" interest.
446 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1565.--------, and Laura Holloway [Two Chelas in the Theosophical
Society]. Man: Fragments ofForgotten History. London: Reeves
and Turner 1885, 1887, 1893. xxvii, 165 pp.
An early attempt to present a coherent outline of Theosophical
teachings on the physical evolution of man, development of sex, previous
civilizations, and the occult hierarchy.
1566.--------. A Paper on Krishna. Transactions of the London Lodge
of the Theosophical Society, 9, June 1886. 16 pp.
1567.--------, trans. The Bhagavad Gita, or The Lord's Lay. Boston and
New York: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1887, 1888, 1895. xv, 283
pp.
1568.--------, trans. Atmanatma-Viveka, or Discrimination of Spirit and
Not-Spirit, and Atmabodha by Shrimat Shankaracharya. Bombay:
Rajaram Tukaram for the Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund,
[1890s]. 66 pp.
1569.--------, trans. Crest-Jewel of Wisdom of Shankaracharya.
Bombay: Rajaram Tukaram for the Bombay Theosophical
Publication Fund, [1890s]. 116 pp.
* Che-Yew-Tsang. See Hargrove, Ernest Temple
1570. Cleather, Alice Leighton. Heaven and Hell, with a note on Omat
Khayyam. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 20 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 4.
Works by Theosophists 447
1571. Colville, William J. Studies in Theosophy: Historical and
Practical. Boston: Colby & Rich, 1890, 1894. 503 pp.
Twenty-two lectures delivered inspirationally by Colville, a
member of the Golden Gate Lodge, on what Theosophy is, and what it
is not.
1572. Connelly, James H. The Influence of Theosophy. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, January 1891. 12 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 11.
1573.--------.Vibrations. New York: Theosophical Society, American
Section, February 1894. 15 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 39.
1574. Cook, Mabel Collins [M.C.]. The Idyll of the White Lotus.
London: Reeves and Turner, 1884. i, 141 pp. Rept. New York:
John W. Lovell Co., [1890]. 131 pp. Rept. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1896. 135 pp.
1575.--------- [M.C.]. Light On The Path. A Treatise Written for the
Personal Use of those who are ignorant of the Eastern Wisdom,
and who desire to enter within its influence. London: Reeves and
Turner, 1885. 31 pp. Rept. New York: The Aryan Theosophical
Society, n.d. 36 pp. Rept. Boston: Cupples, Upham & Co., 1886,
1888, 1889. 53 pp. Rept. London: George Redway, 1888, 1889.
40 pp. Rept. Boston: The Occult Publishing Co., 1888. 8 pp. n.d.
68 pp. Rept. New York: The Path, n.d. 96 pp. Rept. Madras:
Graves, Cookson & Co., 1891. 30 pp. Privately Reprinted for F.
S., 1893. 47 pp. Rept. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1894. 96 pp. Rept. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co.,
1895. 40 pp. Rept. New York: Theosophical Publishing Co.,
1897. 92 pp.
448 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
The first edition, bound in light blue-grey cloth with the title
stamped in gold and out by Oct. 1885, contained only the 21 numbered
aphorisms of Parts I and II and the essay on Karma. Additional note*
appeared in the Aryan T.S. edition, c. 1886, and most subsequenl
reprints. Editions of the 1890s added Comments that had appeared ir
Lucifer, 1887/88.
1576.--------. Through the Gates of Gold. A Fragment of Thought
London: Ward and Downey, 1887. 152 pp. Rept. Boston: Roberts
Brothers, 1887, 1888, 1890, 1894, 1897. I ll pp.
I 1577.--------,and-------[H.P. Blavatsky]. The Blossom and the Fruit.
I The True Story of a Black Magician. London: Published by the
I Authors, 1888. 332 pp. Rept. New York: J. W. Lovell Co., 1889.
j 200 pp.
Serialized in Lucifer, 1887/88, the novel narrates the trials of 2
woman on the path of initiation. The "-------" supposedly represented
• H.P.B. who stepped in and changed the final denouement of the plot. The
! London 1888 edition has four pages of advertisements for Mrs. Cook’s
publishers, Ward and Downey. The cover was embossed with a desigr
of a stem of grain with flowers, the back having just a branch.
I 1578. Cook, Neil [N. C.]. Psychometry and Thought-Transference, with
jj Practical Hints for experiments. With an Introduction by H.S.
fi Olcott. Madras: The Proprietors of The Theosophist, Adyar,
If- 1886, 1887. v, 35 pp. Rept. Boston: Esoteric Publishing Co..
l\ 1887. 43 pp.
1579. Cooper-Oakley, Isabel, and A.M. Glass. Studies in the "Secrei
Doctrine." London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 3C
pp.
I. The Monad. II. Tetraktys and Tetragrammaton.
Works by Theosophists 449
1580. Copeland, Rev. W.E. Theosophy and Christianity. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, December 1892. 11 pp.
Rept. New Haven, CT: The Atma Branch T.S., n.d. 10 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 29. Identifies Christ, or the
Logos, with the Higher Self of the Theosophists.
1581.--------. Esoteric Christianity. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, August 1894. 11 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 44.
1582. Coryn, Herbert A.W. An Hour in Borderland Occultism London:
Theosophical Publishing Society; New York: The Path, 1894. 28
pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VII, 2.
1583.------—
. Devachan, or the Heavenworld. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1895. 20 pp. Rept. New York: The Path,
1895. 36 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VII, 18.
1584.--------, and Georg Spencer. Man: His Origin and Evolution:
According to Theosophic Philosophy. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, [c. 1891]. 8 pp.
1585. Coulomb, Edouard J. [Amaravella]. Parabrahm. Trans, by
G.R.S. Mead. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1889. 31
pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 18.
450 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1586. Courmes, D.A. A Theosophical Question-Book. Trans, from the
French by Mrs. Elin Salzer and Harry Banbery, F.T.S. Madras:
The Theosophist Office, Adyar, 1898. vi, 87 pp.
One hundred and six questions and answers on Theosophical
topics.
* D. M. S. See Strong, D.M.
1587. Dvivedi, Manilal N. The Logic of Common Sense. A Lecture on
Theosophy and Science. Bombay: Bombay Branch of the
Theosophical Society, 1884. 38 pp.
1588.--------, trans. The Yoga-Sutra of Patanjali. Bombay: Tookaram
Tatya for the Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund, [c. 1890].
viii, 99, vii pp.
1589.--------, trans. The Mandukyopanishad with Gaudapadafs Karikas
and the Bhashya of Sankara. Bombay: Tookaram Tatya for the
Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund, 1894. xlvi, 137, v pp.
1590.--------, trans. TheJivanmukti-Viveka, or the Path to Liberation in
this Life by Swami Sri Vidyaranyasarswati. Bombay: Tookaram
Tatya for the Theosophical Publication Fund, 1897. xii, 195 pp.
1591.--------. The Doctrine of Maya. Madras: The Theosophist Office,
n.d. 13 pp.
1592. Edge, Henry T. The Moral Law of Theosophy. London:
Theosophical Book Co., [1897]. 15 pp.
Works by Theosophists 451
1593. Edge, Sydney V. The Second Object of the Theosophical Society,
and its Mission in India. Madras: Indian Section of the
Theosophical Society, [c. 1890s]. 8 pp.
1594. Edger, Lilian. Theosophy Applied. Madras: The Theosophist
Office, Adyar, 1898. 134 pp.
"Four Lectures Delivered at the Twenty-Second Annual
Convention of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, Madras," Dec. 1897.
L595.--------. Indian Tour Lectures. Madras: The Theosophist Office,
Adyar, 1899. 104 pp.
Contains five lectures given during a tour of N. India, 1898: "The
Necessity for Religion; The Building of a World; Man, His Nature and
evolution; The Theosophic Life; The Finding of God."
1596. Edwards, Edgar A. Mediatorship and Mediumship Theosophically
Considered. New York: Theosophical Society, American Section,
February 1893. 14 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 31.
[597. Ellis, Wm. Ashton. Theosophy in the Works of Richard Wagner.
Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society,
11, August 1886. 39 pp.
598. English, William A. Theosophy in Brief, with Hints on its
Practice. Madras: Thompson and Co., 1898. 16 pp.
599. F. D. Was Jesus a Perfect Mari? London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1888. 16 pp.
452 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Centur3
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 12.
* F. H. See Hartmann, Franz
1600. F. T. S. What Is Theosophy? Printed by the Staten Island Branch
n.d. 30 pp.
Letters written to the Detroit Free Press, Dec. 20, 1891, Jan. 3
17, 24, 1892.
1601. F. T. S. Spiritualism Considered in the Light of Theosophy
Cleveland, OH: The Dharma Press, [c. 1897]. 8 pp.
"Reprinted from the Pittsburgh Dispatch."
1602. A Fellow of the Theosophical Society. What Is Theosophy'
Boston: Cupples, Upham & Co., 1886, 1887. 28 pp.
1603. A Fellow of the Theosophical Society. Theosophy in Every-Da
Life. Sydney: Office of the Australasian Section, T. S., 1895. 3
pp. Rept. Benares: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1898. 30 pp
Reprinted from Theosophical Siftings III.
1604. Fullerton, Alexander. Theosophy, the Religion of Jesus. [Ne>
York: Theosophical Society, American Section, c. 1890.] 16 pp
. God. [New York:] Printed on the Aryan Press, n.d. 8 pp
Works by Theosophists 453
1606.--------. Theosophy in its Practical Application to Daily Life. New
York: Theosophical Society, American Section, March 1891. 8
pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 13.
1607.--------. Topics in Reincarnation. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1891. 20 pp. 2nd ed. 1894. 26 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings IV, 4
1608.--------. The Wilkesbarre Letters on Theosophy. New York: The
Path Office, [c. 1891]. 26 pp. Rept. New York: Truelove, Hanson
& Comba, [c. 1896]. 23 pp.
Nine letters contributed to the Sunday Morning Leader,
Wilkesbarre, Pa.
1609.--------. The Indianapolis Letters on Theosophy. New York: The
Path Office, [c. 1891]. 34 pp.
"A series of Letters contributed to The Sentinel, Indianapolis,
nd."
[610.--------. Topics in Karma. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1891, 1894. 28 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings IV, 14-15.
l 6 1 1 .--------. Earth, an Academy. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, February 1892. 7 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 24.
454 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1612.------- . The Theosophical Mahatmas. New York: The Path, [c.
1892]. 20 pp.
1613.--------. Concentration. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, August 1893. 23 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 34.
1614.--------, Harry Steele Budd, Joseph H. Fussell, Leon Landsberg,
William Q. Judge. Things Common to Christianity and Theosophy.
New York: The Path, 1894. 40 pp.
"Papers read before the Aryan T.S., New York, January 9,
1894."
1615.--------. Response to Sermon of Rev. Dr. Bronson Agains,
Theosophy. N.p., n.d. 8 pp.
Reprinted from the Burlington Hawk-Eye of Feb. 21, 1895.
1616.--------. Death as Viewed by Theosophy. New York: Theosophica
Publishing Co., [c. 1896]. 12 pp.
1617.--------. Theosophy inPractice, and, Consolations of Theosophy
Madras: Thompson & Co., 1896. 38 pp.
1618.------- . Joining the Theosophical Society. San Francisco: Mercur
Print, 1897. 7 pp.
1619.--------. A Christian Theosophist. Chicago: Theosophical Bool
Concern, [c. 1897]. 16 pp.
Works by Theosophists 455
1620.--------. An Epitome of Theosophy. [Chicago: Theosophical Book
Concern, c. 1897.] 15 pp.
1621.--------. The True Theosophic Theory of Universal Brotherhood.
San Francisco: Mercury Print, [1898]. 13 pp.
1622.--------. New Wine in Old Bottles, and The Power of an Endless
Life. Chicago: Theosophical Book Concern, [c. 1898]. 42 pp.
1623.--------. The Proofs of Theosophy. Chicago: Theosophical Book
Concern, n.d. 11 pp.
1624.--------. Theosophy From Analogy. [Chicago: Theosophical Book
Concern, n.d.] 12 pp.
1625. Fussell, Joseph H. Nature. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, October 1894. 16 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 45.
* G. M. See Mitford, Godolphin
1626. G. V. K. Married State and Brahmacharya. The True Relation of
the Sexes. Madras: Thompson & Co., 1896. 28 pp.
1627. [Gebhard, Arthur, trans.] Theosophy From a German Point of
View. [New York: The Translator, c. 1886.] 18 pp.
Pages 8-14 are a translation of Carl du Prel’s "Concerning the
Philosophy of Mysticism," where he says "These Mahatmas caused, a
few years ago, the founding of the Theosophical Society."
456 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1628. Gestefeld, Ursula N. Theosophy as a Religion. New York:
Theosophical Society, January 1893. 11 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 30.
1629. Glass, A.M. The Doctrine of the Resurrection. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society; New York: The Path, 1894. 20
pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VII, 11.
1630. Goodrich, Alex. W. A Warrantfor the Study of Occultism Found
in the New Testament. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, December 1890. 8 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 10.
1631. Govindacharlu, A. Two Lectures: "Science and Religion
nTheosophy—The True Vedanta. " Bangalore: Published under the
Authority of the Theosophical Society, Adyar, Madras, India,
1883. 71 pp.
Lectures delivered at Tumkur, Dec. 31, 1882, Feb. 15, 1883.
1632. [Griffiths, Allen.] Materialism, Agnosticism, and Theosophy. San
Francisco: Pacific Coast Committee for Theosophical Work, 1890.
12 pp
1633. H. A. V. The Mystic Guide in the Gospel According to John.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society for the Author, 1899.
106 pp.
457
1634. Hand, Major W. Hudson. Theosophy Made Easy. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, n.d. 28 pp.
1635. Harding, Burcham. Brotherhood, Nature's Law. New York:
Theosophical Publishing Co., [1897]. 110 pp.
Chapters on the One Life, Cyclic Manifestation, the Law of
Action, Reincarnation, Universal Brotherhood.
1636. Hargrove, Ernest Temple [Che-Yew-Tsang, pseud.]. Some
Modern Failings. London: Theosophical Publishing Society; New
York: The Path; Madras: Proprietors of the Theosophist, 1894. 24
pp. Rept. Boston: Skinner, Bartlett & Co., 1897. 36 pp.
The reprint includes the articles from Lucifer, Oct. and Dec. 1893,
that made up the original pamphlet, and adds a third from the Arena,
Dec. 1897.
1637.-------- . Brotherhood. London: Published by the H.P.B. Lodge of
the Theosophical Society in Europe, n.d. 8 pp.
1638.--------[Ernest Temple]. Life's Questions. New York: Truelove &
Comba, 1898. 109 pp.
Multiple questions on philosophy, man and the universe, and
ethics.
1639. Harris, Sarah. Evolution of Manas. San Francisco: Lotus
Publishing Co., 1895. 36 pp.
A Compilation from the Secret Doctrine and other Sources.
458 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1640. Harte, Richard. Theosophy & The Theosophical Society. Adyar,
Madras, 1889. 8 pp.
1641. Hartmann, Franz [F.H.]. White and Black Magic, or Practical
Instructionsfor Students ofOccultism. Boston and Madras: Printed
for the Author, 1885. iv, 149 pp. Rept. London: George Redway,
1886. xii, 228 pp. 3rd & rev. ed., 1888. 324 pp. Rept. New
York: John W. Lovell Co., 1890. x, 281 pp. Rept. New York:
The Path, 1895. x, 281 pp.
1642.------- , trans. The Life of Philippus Theophrastus, Bombast oj
Hohenheim, known by the name of Paracelsus. London: George
Redway, 1887. xiii, 220 pp. Rept. New York: Lovell, Coryell, &
Co., 1891. xvi, 367 pp. Rept. London: Kegan Trench, Trubner
& Co., 2nd ed., rev. & enl., 1896. xv, 311 pp.
1643.--------. An Adventure Among the Rosicrucians. Boston: Occult
Publishing Co., 1887. 181 pp. 1890, 1893. 188 pp.
1644.------- .The Life of Jehoshua, The Prophet of Nazareth. Boston:
Occult Publishing Co., 1888, 1889. 208 pp.
Subtitled: "An Occult Study and a Key to the Bible, containing the
History of an Initiate."
1645.--------. Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians of the Sixteenth ana
Seventeenth Centuries. Boston: Occult Publishing Co., 1888.
Introduction: 16 pp; Plates: Part I: 13 pp; Part II: 12; text: 20 pp.
+ 9 pp.
1646.--------. The Principles of Astrological Geomancy. London:
Theosophical Publishing Company; Boston: Occult Publishing
Co., 1889. 136 pp.
459
1647.--------. In the Pronaos of the Temple, containing the History of
the True and False Rosicrucians. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society; Boston: Occult Publishing Co., 1890. 134 pp.
Traces the Hermetic Philosophy from the Neo-Platonists to the 19th
century. An Appendix gives a list of Rosicrucian and Alchemical symbols
and axioms.
1648.--------. The Life and Doctrines ofJacob Boehme, the God-Taught
Philosopher. Boston: Occult Publishing Co., 1891. xii, 338 pp.
Rept. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co. Rept. New
York: John Lovell Co., [c. 1890s].
1649.--------. The Philosophy of SelfKnowledge; or, the Mystery of the
Three Worlds Revealing Itself in Man. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1892. 21 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 6 .
1650.--------. Occult Science in Medicine. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1893. 100 pp.
1651.--------. Buried Alive: An Examination into the Occult Causes of
Apparent Death, Trance and Catalepsy. Boston: Occult Publishing
Co., 1895. 147 pp. Rept. as Premature Burial. London: Swan
Sonnenschein & Co., 1896. vii, 128 pp.
1652.--------. Among the Gnomes: An Occult Tale of Adventure in the
Untersberg. Boston: Occult Publishing Co., 1896. 272 pp.
1653.--------. The Correlation of Spiritual Forces. New York: The
Metaphysical Publishing Co., 1897. 33 pp.
460 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1654. [Hecht, Solomon.] Theosophy Simply Put. By a New York
Newspaper Reporter. New York: The Path, 1894. 38 pp.
Articles written for the Daily News-Democrat, Belleville, 111., and
Gazette and Free Press, Elmira, N.Y.
1655. Hillard, Katherine. EvolutionAccording to Theosophy. New York:
The Path, 1893. 39 pp.
Two lectures based on Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine, covering the
evolution of the earth, and of the races.
1656. Holt, R.B. Evolution. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1893. 20 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VI, 1 1 .
1657. Hooper, E.B. Evolution and Involution. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, October 1890. 7 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 7.
1658. Hume, Allan Octavian. No Revelation Infallible. Calcutta:
Published by the Calcutta Central Press Co., 1883. 12 pp.
Reprinted from The Theosophist, March 1883.
1659. An Indian F.T.S. Theosophy and Occultism. Popularly
Considered. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. 7
pp.
Theosophical Tracts No. 6 .
461
1660. J. C. S., F.T.S. Life and Death. Melbourne, Australia, 1896. 16
pp.
"To be obtained at any of the Branches of The Theosophical
Society, Australia."
1661. [Johnston, Charles.] The Theosophy of the Upanishads. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896. 203 pp.
Translations from the Upanishads collected under subjects on
Death and Rebirth, the Three Worlds, the Higher Self.
1662.--------, trans. From the Upanishads. Dublin: Whaley, 1896. xi,
55 pp. Rept. Portland, ME: T.B. Mosher, 1897.
Translations from the Katha Upanishad: "In the House of Death";
Prasna Upanishad: "A Vedic Master"; and Chandogya Upanishad VI:
"That Thou Art."
1663.--------, trans. The Awakening to the Self New York: The Author;
Hoff Brothers, 1897. 31 pp.
A translation of the Atmabodha of Sankaracarya.
1664.--------. The Memory of Past Births. New York: The Theosophical
Society; The Metaphysical Publishing Co., 1899. 55 pp.
1665. Judge, William Quan, ed. Abridgement of Discussions upon
Theosophical Subjects, Held at Meetings of the Aryan
Theosophical Society of New York [and Elsewhere]. No. 1, April
1886. 4 pp.
462 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1666.--------, ed. Abridgement of Discussions upon Theosophical
Subjects etc. No. 2, May 1886. 4 pp.
1667.--------, ed. Abridgement of Discussions upon Theosophical
Subjects etc. No. 3, June-Sept. 1886. 4 pp.
1668.------- , ed. Abridgement of Discussions upon Theosophical
Subjects, Held at Meetings of Branches of the Theosophical
Society in the United States. No. 4, Nov. 1887. 4 pp.
1669.--------, ed. Abridgement of Discussions upon Theosophical
Subjects etc. No. 5, March 1888. 4 pp.
1670. [-------.] An Epitome of Theosophy. [New York, c. 1887.] 4 pp.
1671.------- . Epitome of Theosophical Teachings. Being an extension of
a Tract issued by New York Theosophists entitled, "An Epitome of
Theosophy." London: Theosophical Publishing Co., June 20,
1888. 16 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 8 . It was also reprinted with
Mabel Collins Cook’s Idyll of the White Lotus and A.O. Hume’s Hints
on Esoteric Theosophy, No. 1, by John W. Lovell, N.Y., c. 1890, as a
volume of Lovell’s "Occult Series."
1672.--------, and James Henderson Connelly. The Yoga Aphorisms of
Patanjali. New York: The Path, 1889. xiv, 64 pp. 2nd ed. 1890.
4th ed. 1893. xxi, 65 pp. Rept. New York: Theosophical
Publishing Co., 5th ed. 1896. xxi, 65 pp.
"This edition of Patanjali’s Yoga Aphorisms is not put forth as a
new translation, nor as a literal rendering into English of the original,"
but as "an interpretation" based on previous 19th century versions.
463
1673.--------[and James H. Connelly]. The Bhagavad Gita. The Book
of Devotion. New York: The Path, [1890]. xii, 133 pp. 4th ed.
1893, 5th ed. 1894. Rept. New York: Theosophical Publishing
Co., 6 th ed. 1896. xii, 133 pp.
"It is the result of a careful comparison of all the English editions
and of a complete retranslation from the original wherever any obscurity
or omission was evident in the various renderings consulted."
1674.--------. The Self is the Friend of Self and also Its Enemy. New
York: Theosophical Society, American Section, August 1890. 7
pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 5.
1675.--------. Echoes From the Orient. A Broad Outline of Theosophical
Doctrines. New York: The Path, 1890. 6 8 pp. 3rd ed. 1893. 64
pp. Rept. New York: Theosophical Publishing Co., 5th ed. 1896.
64 pp.
Reprinted from Kate Field's Washington, Jan. 1890, where it
appeared under the pen-name of "Occultus."
1676.--------. Theosophical Study and Work. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, November 1890. 10 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 8 .
1677.--------, Archibald Keightley, J.D. Buck, G.R.S. Mead, William
E. Gates, and Mrs. M.C. Brainard. Cyclic Inpression and Other
Papers. Cleveland, Ohio: The Dharma Press, 1892. 58 pp.
Issued as an Appendix to the Report of the Sixth Annual
Convention of the Theosophical Society in America, 24, 25 April 1892:
Papers and Addresses.
464 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1678.--------. The Ocean of Theosophy. New York: The Path, 1893. ix,
154 pp. 2nd ed. 1893. Rept. New York: Theosophical Publishing
Co., 3rd ed. 1896, 1898.
1679.--------. Theosophy Generally Stated. Bombay, n.p., [1893/94].
8 pp.
1680.--------. Universal Brotherhood a Fact in Nature. Bombay, n.p.,
[1893/94]. 8 pp.
A talk given Sept. 15 at the 1893 Chicago Theosophical Congress.
Included in item 250.
1681.--------. Astral Intoxication and Other Papers. New York: The
Path, 1895. 19 pp.
Articles reprinted from the Path: "Astral Intoxication,""Delusions
of Clairvoyance,""Shall We Teach Clairvoyance."
1682.--------. Culture of Concentration, and Of Occult Powers and their
Acquirement. New York: The Path, 1895. 29 pp.
Articles reprinted from the Path.
1683. [-------?] The Crown of Life As Itidicated by Theosophy. [New
York: The Aryan Press, n.d.] 12 pp.
1684. [-------?] Theosophy and Its Message. [New York, n.d.] 8 pp.
1685. Keeney, George P. Fragments on the Astral Light. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, December 1891. 8 pp.
Works by Theosophists 465
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 22.
1686. Keightley, Archibald. The Practice of Altruism, Universal
Brotherhood. Bombay, n.d. 8 pp.
A lecture delivered by Dr. Keightley at the third annual convention
of the American Section of the Theosophical Society.
1687. Keightley, Bertram. A Synopsis of Baron Du PreVs "Philosophic
der Mystik." Transactions of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society, 4, February 1885. 31 pp. Rept. London:
Theosophical Publishing Co., [1888]. 23 pp.
Reprint issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 3.
1688.------- .The Second and Third Objects of the Theosophical Society
as Related to the First. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, June 1890. 10 pp. Rept. Bombay, n.d. 7 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 1.
1689.--------. Why You Should Join the Theosophical Society. Bombay:
Blavatsky Lodge of the Theosophical Society, n.d. 3 pp.
1690. Keightley, Julia [Mrs. J. Campbell Ver Planck]. The Wonder-
Light and Other Tales. True Philosophyfor Children. New York:
The Path, 1890. 81 pp.
Seven short stories.
1691.--------[Jasper Niemand]. Letters That Have Helped Me. New
York: The Path, [1891]. xii, 90. 5 editions throughout the 1890s.
466 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Compiled from letters of W.Q. Judge written to Mrs. Campbell
Ver Planck.
1692.--------[Jasper Niemand]. The Purposes of Soul. Dublin: [The
Irish Theosophist], 1896. 16 pp.
"Quicken-Bough Series—No. 1." Reprinted from the Path.
1693. Kingsland, William. The Higher Science. London: Theosophical
Publishing Co., 1888. 16 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 11.
1694.--------. The Mystic Quest. A Tale of Two Incarnations. London:
George Allen, 1891. 215 pp.
1695.--------. The Esoteric Basis of Christianity, or Theosophy and
Christian Doctrine. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1891. 38 pp.
1696.--------. The Esoteric Basis of Christianity. Part 2: Genesis.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. iii, 51 pp.
1697.--------. The Esoteric Basis of Christianity, or Theosophy and
Christian Thought. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1895. xliv, 195 pp.
Contains items 1695 and 1696 as Parts 1 and 2, and adds a Part
3 on the Logos, and 4, on the Gospel.
Works by Theosophists 467
1698. Kislingbury, Emily. Spiritualism in its Relation to Theosophy,
and, Karma and Free-Will, an elementary study. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 24 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 3.
1699. Krishna, the Christ. New York: Theosophical Society, American
Section, August 1891. 8 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 20.
1700. L. S. Theosophical Christianity. An Address. Calcutta: Thacker,
Spink & Co., 1891. 39 pp.
1701. Laheri, D.K., trans. The Uttara Gita: being the Initiation of
Arjuna, by Shri Krishna into Yoga and Dnyana. Bombay:
Tookaram Tatya for Bombay Theosophical Society’s Publication
Fund, n.d. 50 pp.
Reprinted from Lucifer, Nov. and Dec. 1892.
1702. [Lang, Mary Folger.] Elementary Theosophy. New York:
Theosophical Publishing Co., [1896?]. 38 pp.
"Reprinted from the Toledo Commercial."
1703. Leadbeater, Charles Webster. The Astral Plane. Transactions of
the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 24, April 1894.
94 pp. Rept. as The Astral Plane: Its Scenery, inhabitants and
Phenomena. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. vi,
1 0 0 pp .
An Address delivered before the London Lodge, Nov. 21, 1894,
nd issued as "Theosophical Manual" No. 5.
468 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1704.--------. Dreams. Transactions of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society, 27, December 1895. 39 pp. Rept. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, n.d. 70 pp.
"Being the substance of an Address delivered at a meeting of the
Lodge, on the 25th of October, 1895, by Mr. C.W. Leadbeater."
1705.--------. The Aura: An enquiry into the Nature and Functions ofthe
Luminous mist seen about Human and other Bodies. With a
Preface by H.S. Olcott. Madras: The Proprietors of The
Theosophist, 1895. 18 pp. Rept. London/New York: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1897. 15 pp.
Reprinted from The Theosophist, Dec. 1895. The New York
reprint did not include Olcott’s preface.
1706.--------. The Devachanic Plane, Its Characteristics and
Inhabitants. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896. 88
pp.
"Theosophical Manuals" No. 6 .
1707.--------. Clairvoyance. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1899. 164 pp.
1708. Libra. Womanhood and the Bible. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1891. 23 pp.
"An Examination into the Authority and Authenticity of Passages
specially relating to Women."*
* M. C. See Cook, Mabel Collins
469
1709. Machell, Reginald. The Legend of the Grail, and, Karma.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1893. 16 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings, VI, 12.
1710. Madhowdasji, Babu. 77ie Sayings of Grecian Sages. Allahabad:
Published by R.P.B., F.T.S., under the Auspices of the
Theosophical Society, 1885. 24 pp.
Ethical Maxims without sources. According to the Explanatory
Preface by Olcott, "It being an important part of the Society’s work in
India to encourage among youth, the study and practice of ancient moral
maxims."
1711. Main, William. Evolution, Agnosticism, and Theosophy. New
York: Theosophical Society, American Section, November 1893.
8 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 37.
1712. Manualfor Teachers and Advanced Scholars of the Lotus Circle.
No. 1. Nature Series. New York: Theosophical Publishing Co.,
1896. 37 pp.
The Lotus Circle was the Theosophical equivalent of Sunday
School for children. The manual deals with the One Life, Progress,
Reincarnation.
1713. Marques, A. Why We Should Study Theosophy. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, March 1894. 10 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 40. "Read at the opening of the
Beginner’s Class of Theosophy, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands."
470 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1714.------- , assisted by M. McElroy. The Human Aura. A Study. San
Francisco: Office of Mercury, 1896. vii, 76 pp.
Relies heavily on Hindu ideas of the Tattvic colors as revealing
correspondences in the Aura, mentions thought forms, shapes of Auras.
1715.------- . Scientific Corroborations of Theosophy, or H.P.B.’
s
Secret Doctrine Vindicated By the Progress of Science. San
Francisco: Mercury Print, 1897. 54 pp.
1716.------- . Reincarnation. A Consequence ofEvolution and a General
Law. Honolulu, Hawaii: The Aloha Branch T.S., n.d. 15 pp.
Reprinted from The Hawaiian, Honolulu, and Mercury, San
Francisco.
1717. Mead, George Robert Stowe. Theosophy and Religion. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, n.d. 6 pp.
1718.--------. Theosophy and Occultism. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1892. 13 pp.
1719.--------. Yoga; The Science of the Soul. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society; Madras: Theosophical Society, 1892. 20 pp.
1720.--------. Simon Magus. An Essay. London: Theosophica
Publishing Society, 1892. 91 pp.
1721.--------. Notes on Nirvana. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1893. 28 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings VI, 10.
471
1722.--------. TheWorld-Mystery. Four Essays. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1895. 160 pp.
1, The World Soul; 2, The Vestures of the Soul; 3, The Web of
Destiny; 4, True Self-Reliance.
1723. -------. Plotinus. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895.
48 pp.
Written as a Preface to a new edition of Thomas Taylor’s Select
Works of Plotinus, published as part of the Bohn Library series.
1724. -------, trans. Pistis Sophia. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1896. xliv, 394 pp.
"A Gnostic Gospel (with extracts from the Books of the Saviour
appended) originally translated from Greek into Coptic and now for the
first time Englished from Schwartze’s Latin version of the only known
Coptic MS. and checked by Amelineau’s French version, with an
Introduction."
1725.--------. Orpheus. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896.
320 pp.
Part of an intended series titled "The Theosophy of the Greeks."
1726.--------, and Jagadisha Chandra Chattopadhyaya [Roy Choudhuri],
trans. The Upanishads. London: Theosophical Publishing Society,
1896. Vol. 1: 137 pp. Vol. 2: 98 pp.
Translations of the Isha, Kenat Katha, Prasna, Mundaka,
YfanduJcya, Taittiriya, Aitareya, Shvetashvatara Upanishads.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1727. Mirza, K.F. The Alchemy of Happiness or The Key to Eternal
Bliss. An Exposition of the Islamic Theosophy. Lahore: The
Mohammadan Tract and Book Depot, 1894. 96 pp.
"Theosophy as interpreted by Mohammad and held in theory and
practice by Mohammadans." Conclusion gives extracts from Theosophical
books relevant to the subject, as well as extracts translated from Persian
books.
1728. Mitford, Godolphin [G. M., F.T.S.]. The Elixir ofLife. (From a
Chela's Diary.) Boston: Occult Publishing Co., 1887, 1891,1895.
42 pp.
Also included in items 1564 and 1789. Originally published in The
Theosophist Mar., Apr. 1882.
1729. Moore, Clara Jessup [Mrs. Bloomfield Moore]. Keely’
s Secrets.
London: Theosophical Publishing Company, July 1888. 36 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 9.
1730.--------. Keely and Science, and, Keely Motor Bubble. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1890. 30 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings III, 15-16.
1731.--------. Keely’
s Progress. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1892. 30 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 1.
1732.--------. Faith by Science, The Dawn of a New Order of Things.
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 28 pp.
473
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 11. These four papers deal with
the discoveries based on the "dynaspheric force" of the American
inventor John Worrell Keely (1837-1898), who was later discredited. See
Olcott’s article on this in the Aug. 1899 Theosophist (item 1071).
1733. Mukhopahyaya, Rajendrala. Altruism—A Law? Calcutta: Aghore
Nath Datta, F.T.S., for the Bengal Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1895. 32 pp.
1734. Muller, F. Henrietta, ed. The Yoga of Christ, or the Science ofthe
Soul. Written down by A.K.G. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1894. xii, 116 pp.
An interpretation of Christianity from "An Indian point of view,"
in the form of 40 letters written on various subjects, including smoking,
self-esteem, faith, humility.
1735. Murray, Oswald. Man’
s Relation to the Phenomenal World as
viewed by Transcendental Philosophy and by Occultism. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1892. 20 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings V, 12.
* N. C. See Cook, Neil
[736. Narayanaswami Aier, K., and R. Sundareswara Sastri.
Vasudevamana, or the Meditations of Vasudeva. Kumbakonam:
The Kumbakonam Branch, Theosophical Society, 1893. iii, 124
pp.
"A Compendium of Advaita Philosophy translated from the
lanskrit."
474 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1737.--------. God, the Universe and the Hindu Trinity. Madras:
Published under the auspices of the Theosophical Publishing Co.,
1895. 35 pp.
* Niemand, Jasper. See Keightley, Julia
1738. Nizida [pseud.] The Astral Light: An Attempted Exposition oj
Certain Occult Principles in Nature; with some remarks upon
modern Spiritism. London: Theosophical Publishing Company,
1889. xx, 181 pp. 1892. xv, 148 pp.
1739.--------. Nature-Spirits or Elementals, and. On The Difference
Between Elementals and Elementaries. London: Theosophical
Publishing Company, 1889. 24 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 10.
1740. Olcott, Henry Steel. Inaugural Address of the President of the
Theosophical Society. New York: Printed and Electrotyped bj
order of the Society, 1875. 24 pp.
"Delivered at Mott Memorial Hall in the City of New York, at the
First Regular Meeting of the Society, November 17th, 1875." ^
1741.--------. Address delivered by Col. H.S. Olcott, President
Theosophical Society, attheFramji Cowasji Hall, Bombay, Marc}
23, 1879, together with the Rules ofthe Society. Bombay: Printe<
at the Industrial Press, 1879. vi, 23 pp.
Olcott’s first public address in India, "The Theosophical Society
and its aims."
475
1742.--------. An Address by Col Henry S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society, to the Arya Samaj of Meerut. Roorkee,
India: Thomason Civil Engineering College Press, 1879. 11 pp.
Delivered on May 5, 1879, at a public welcome for the
Theosophists by Swami Dayananda and the Meerut Arya Samaj.
1743.--------. The Life of Buddha and its Lessons. Colombo, Ceylon:
1880. 12 pp.
A lecture delivered at the Town Hall, Kandy, Ceylon, June 11,
1880.
1744.--------. A Buddhist Catechism, According to the Canon of the
Southern Church. Colombo, Ceylon: Published by the
Theosophical Society, Buddhist Section, 1881. English: iii, 28 pp.
Sinhalese: iv, 35 pp. Rept: Colombo, Ceylon: The Ilangakoon
Catechism Fund; London: Trubner & Co., 1882. ix, 57 pp. Rept.
Boston: Estes and Lauriat, 1885, 1887. viii, 84 pp. Rept. Madras:
The Author, 1886. vi, 80 pp. Rept. Madras: The Theosophical
Society, 1887. viii, 47 pp. 1891. 63 pp. Rept. London:
Theosophical Publication Society, [1888/89]. 79 pp. Rept.
Madras: The Theosophist Office, 1897. 121 pp.
"Approved, and recommended for use in Buddhist schools by H.
>umangala, High Priest of Sripada (Adam’s Peak) and Galle, and
5rincipal of the Widyodaya Parivena (Buddhist College)." The 1897
dition, which was the 33rd reprint, rearranged and largely extended the
question and answer material into five categories: 1. The Life of the
luddha; 2, The Doctrine; 3, The Sangha; 4, A brief history of
luddhism; 5, Buddhism and Science, and added Olcott’s 14
7
undamentals of Buddhism as an appendix.
--------. The Spirit of the Zoroastrian Religion. Bombay: K.M.
Shroff, 1882. 48 pp.
745.
476 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
"A lecture delivered, by invitation, at the Town Hall, Bombay, on
the 14th of February, 1882, before the Parsi Community."
1746.--------. Theosophy, the Scientific Basis ofReligion. N.p., n.d. 34
pp.
"A lecture at the Town Hall, Calcutta, Wed. 5th April 1882, at
5 p.m."
1747.------- . The Common Foundation ofall Religions. Madras: Printed
by Vest and Company for C.V. Cunniah Chetty, F.T.S. of the
Hindu Sabha, 1882. 25 pp
"An Address Delivered at Patchiappah’s Hall, Madras, on the 26
of April 1882, by invitation of the Hindu Community."
1748.--------. A Collection of Lectures on Theosophy and Archaic
Religions, Delivered in India and Ceylon by Colonel H.S. Olcott,
President of the Theosophical Society. Madras: Published by A.
Theyaga Rajier, 1883. 218 pp.
Contains items 1741, 1743, 1745, 1746, 1747 and ten other
lectures.
1749.--------. Theosophy, Religion and Occult Science. London: George
Redway, 1885. xiii, 384, 15 pp.
Twelve lectures and addresses by Olcott on Theosophical subjects,
"carefully edited, and a large amount of original matter" added by him.
Contains items 1741, 1743, 1745, 1746, 1747, plus a copious glossary oi
Eastern words used in them.
477
1750.--------. The Peril of Indian Youth. Madras: Printed at the
Memorial Press, 1886. 15 pp. Rept. Madras: Hoe and Co., 1892.
33 pp.
A lecture delivered at Pachaiyappa’s Hall, Madras, Oct. 26, 1885.
"I would have the youth of India to understand that the first peril which
they stand in danger of is the peril that they are losing their national
feeling."
1751.--------. The Golden Rules of Buddhism, compiledfrom the Bana
Books. Madras: The Theosophical Society, 1887. iii, 25 pp. 2nd
ed. 1891. iii, 20 pp.
Bears the Certificate from H. Sumangala, Nov. 27, 1887, "I have
read Colonel Olcott’s compilation of moral precepts from the Buddhist
scriptures, and recommend the same as a book of instruction for Buddhist
youth."
1752.--------, trans. Posthumous Humanity: A Study of Phantoms by
Adolphe d'Assier. London: George Redway, 1887. xxiv, 360 pp.
Olcott’s translation of d’Assier’s book on mediumistic phenomena
and mesmerism, adding an Appendix "shewing the popular beliefs current
in India respecting the Post-Mortem vicissitudes of the human entity."
1753.--------. Asceticism: A Word of Friendly Counsel. Madras:
Published by the Theosophical Society, 1892. 15 pp.
Reprinted from The Theosophist, Feb. 1892.
1754.--------. The Kinship between Hinduism and Buddhism. Edited with
an Introduction and Appendix by H. Dharmapala. Calcutta: The
Maha-Bodhi Society, 1893. 33 pp.
478 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
A Lecture delivered in the Town Hall, Calcutta, Oct. 24th,
1892."
1755. Old, Walter R. What Is Theosophy? A Hand-Bookfor Inquirers
into the Wisdom Religion. London: Hay Nisbet & Co., 1891,
1892. 128 pp.
"Being an outline of Theosophical Teaching relating to Man and
the Universe, Occultism, etc."
1756.--------. Astrology. Madras: Published by the Theosophist Office,
Adyar, 1893. 92 pp.
"A series of lectures delivered before the Mylapur Literary
Society, Madras."
1757.------- . The Book of the Path of Virtue, or a version of the
Tao-Teh-King of Lao-Tze, with an Introduction & Essay on the
Tao as presented in the Writings of Chuang-Tze. Madras: Indiar
Section of the T.S., 1894. iv, 46 pp.
1758. Patterson, Henry T. A Theosophical Chat. New York:
Theosophical Society, American Section, August 1892. 8 pp. Nov.
1892. 8 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Papers Nos. 26, 28.
1759.--------. Religion, Science, Philosophy, Theosophy. New York
Theosophical Society, American Section, October 1893. 12 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 36.
Works by Theosophists 479
1760. Phelon, William P., and Mira M. [Phelons]. Three Sevens. A
Story of Ancient Initiations. Chicago: The Hermetic Publishing
Co., 1889. viii, 271 pp.
Under the guise of fiction the teachings of an undying Brotherhood
based in America is narrated in a somewhat stilted form. The authors,
Mr. and Mrs. Phelon, were founding members of the Chicago Lodge of
the T.S.
* Pilgrim. See Scott-Elliot, W.
1761. Plummer, Fred G. The Last Change ofthe Earth's Axis. Tacoma,
Wash.: Narada Branch, Theosophical Society, [c. 1894]. 50 pp.
1762. Pryse, James Morgan. Instinct, Intellect, and Intuition, and, The
Extension of the Theosophic Movement. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, May 1891. 8 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 16.
1763.--------[Aretas]. The Sermon on the Mount and other extractsfrom
the New Testament. Toronto: The Lamp; New York: Theosophical
Publishing Co.; Dublin: The Irish Theosophist, 1896. 30 pp.
Rept. New York: E.B. Page, 1899. 80 pp.
1764. Pryse, John M. Mystical California. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, July 1891. 9 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 19. Speaks of "the new sixth
subrace that is to be brought forth in America, and which will, as
gathered by Mr. Bertram Keightley from H.P.B. ’s remarks, make itsfirst
ippearance in California."
480 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1765. Rama Prasad. The Science of Breath and the Philosophy of the
Tatwas (Translatedfrom the Sanskrit) withfifteen introductory and
explanatory essays on Nature's Finer Forces. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1890. ii, 258 pp. 2nd ed. & rev.
ed. 1894. vii, 251 pp. 3rd & rev. ed. 1897. viii, 251 pp.
Features a translation of the tantric text, the Shiva Svarodaya, ir
the form of a dialogue between the goddess Parvati and Shiva.
1766. Rameses. The Pith and Marrow of the Closing and Coming
Century and Freemasonry and Jesuitry. New York: Theosophica]
Publishing Co., 1899. 17 pp.
1767. The Relative Place and Importance of Action and Contemplatior
in the Theosophic Life. New York: Theosophical Society,
American Section, January 1892. 10 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 23.
1768. Salzer, L. The Scientific Basis of Theosophy. Calcutta: Han
Press, 1893. 49 pp.
1769. Schram, L. Theosophical Analogies in the Divina Commedia,
London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1895. 26 pp.
1770. Scotford, J.H. The "Globe” Letters on Theosophy. N.p.
[c. 1890/92]. 12 pp.
Written for the Sunday Globe, Tacoma, Washington Territory.
1771. Scott-Elliot, W. [Pilgrim]. Problems of the Higher Life, bein±
Essays on the Ethics of Spiritual Evolution. London: Georg<
Redway, 1889. x, 201 pp.
481
Fifteen essays on the Higher Life, including "The Dark Night of
the Soul," "Meditation and Action," "Death."
1772.--------[Pilgrim]. Faith. Transactions of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society, 16, March 1890. 15 pp.
1773.--------. The Evolution of Humanity. Transactions of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 17, February 1893. 24 pp.
1774.--------. Vehicles of Consciousness. Transactions of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 21, May 1894. 20 pp.
1775.--------. Atlantis. A Geographical, Historical, and Ethnological
Sketch. Transactions of the London Lodge of the Theosophical
Society, 29, February 1896. 71 pp. + 3 maps. Rept. as The Story
of Atlantis. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1896. xi,
71 pp. + 4 maps.
1776. Sen, Norendranath. Theosophy or Universal Brotherhood.
Calcutta: Bengal Theosophical Society, 1886. 36 pp.
1777. Sinnett, Patience [Mrs. A.P. Sinnett]. The Purpose of Theosophy.
London: Chapman and Hall, 1885. 107 pp. Rept. Bombay:
Tookram Tatya for the Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund,
1886, 1887. 55 pp. Rept. Boston: The Occult Publishing Co.,
1886, 1888. 117 pp.
1778.--------. Karma in the Animal Kingdom. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 14, November 1889.
14 pp.
482 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1779.--------, and W. Scott-Elliott. The Lunar Pitris. Transactions of the
London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, 26, August 1895. 30
pp. Rept. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 2nd ed. 1896.
1780. Sreenevasa Row, P. Theosophy: A Few Observations and
Explanations Regarding It. Madras: The Author, 1883. 47 pp.
1781.--------, comp. An Epitome ofAryan Morals. Compiled by request
of the President of the Theosophical Society. For the use ofAryan
Youth. Bombay: Subodha-Prakash Press, 1887. 16 pp.
Thirty-seven slokas from the Upanishads, Puranas, and Laws of
Manu, of an ethical nature.
1782.--------, and Henry S. Olcott. Dwaita Catechism. The Dwaita
Philosophy of Sriman Madwacharyar. Madras, n.p., 1886. [48
unnumbered pp.] Rept. as The Hindu Dwaita Philosophy oj
Sriman Madhwacharyar. Madras: Thompson and Co., 2nd ed.
1888. 36 pp.
"Compiled from Original Sanskrit and other works."
1783.--------. Light on the Path. A Treatise with commentary and
annotations. Madras: The Indian Section of the Theosophical
Society, Adyar, [c. 1894]. xv, 142 pp.
Extensive commentary on item 1575, reprinted from The
Theosophist for 1885/86.
1784. Strong, D.M. [D.M.S.]. Mona Singh: A Sketch. Calcutta:
Thacker, Spink & Co., 1884. 76 pp.
The story of Mona Singh, the son of a Rajput on a visit to Europe,
serves as the means for introducing long quotes from Theosophical
483
literature. He returns to India to become a Buddhist adept. Fifteen years
later he isjoined by a French lady and her daughter who become converts
to his plans.
1785. Sturdy, E.T. Theosophy and Ethics. London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1891. 8 pp.
1786. Subba Row, T. Discourses on the Bhagavad Gita. Bombay:
Tookaram Tatya for the Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund,
1888. vii, 95 pp. Rept. as Lectures on the Study of the Bhagavad
Gita. Bombay: Tookaram Tatya for the Bombay Theosophical
Publication Fund, 1897. xviii, 211 pp.
Lectures delivered at the Annual T.S. Convention at Adyar,
Madras, Dec. 1885 and 1886, and reprinted from The Theosophist 1887.
1787.--------. A Collection of Esoteric Writings of T. Subba Row.
Bombay: Tookaram Tatya for the Bombay Theosophical
Publication Fund, 1895. iv, 356 pp.
A collection of articles and reviews from The Theosophist.
1788. Sundaram Iyer, S. Thoughts on the Metaphysics of Theosophy.
Calcutta: Issued under the Authority of the Theosophical Society,
1883. 115 pp.
Issued as No. 1 of "Theosophical Miscellanies."
1789. Tatya, Tookaram, ed. A Guide to Theosophy, Containing Select
Articles for the Instruction of Aspirants to the Knowledge of
Theosophy. Bombay: Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund,
1887. vi, 400 pp.
484 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
A compendium of early articles from The Theosophist by
Blavatsky and Indian members, primarily geared for promoting
Theosophy in India. Contains item 1728.
1790.------- , ed. A Compendium of the Raja Yoga Philosophy,
Comprising the principal treatises of Shrimat Sankaracharya and
other renowned authors. Bombay: Tookaram Tatya for the
Bombay Theosophical Publication Fund, 1888. 161 pp.
Contains translations of Sankara’s Aprokshanushuti, Atma-bodha,
Crest Jewel of Wisdom, by M. Dvivedi and Mohini Chatteiji.
* Temple, Ernest. See Hargrove, Ernest Temple
1791. Tenney, W.A.R. The Three Postulates of the Secret Doctrine.
New York: Theosophical Society, American Section, December
1893. 16 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 38.
1792. Theosophical Concepts of Evolution and Religion. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1889. 19 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings I, 16.
1793. The Theosophical Idea of Immortality. New York: Theosophica
Society, American Section, March 1893. 12 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 23.
1794. A Theosophist. The Riddle of Riddles, or the Secret of the Rings.
Rochester, NY: The Occult Word Press, n.d. 14 pp.
485
1795. Theosophy Briefly Explained. Written and edited by various
students. London: Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co.,
1897. 122 pp.
This brief presentation of Theosophical ideas: reincarnation,
karma, cycles, seven-fold nature of man, Mahatmas, supplemented with
a history of the Society and Katherine Tingley’s "first Theosophical
crusade" of 1896/97, has been attributed to Alice Cleather and Basil
Crump.
1796. Thirds, Mercie M. In What Sense Is Universal Brotherhood
Possible? New York: Theosophical Society, American Section,
June 1891. 6 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 17.
1797.--------. A Theosophical View of Woman. New York: Theosophical
Society, American Section, October 1891. 7 pp.
Dept, of Branch Work Paper No. 21.
1798. Thomas, Sidney. Theosophy in its Relation to Spirit Return. San
Diego, CA: Theosophical Union Headquarters, [c. 1890]. 3 pp.
Reprinted from the Spiritual Times of San Diego, Nov. 15, 1890.
1799. Tingley, Katherine. An Address delivered by Katherine A. Tingley
in the Town Hall, Bombay, October 29, 1896. N.p., n.d. 4 pp.*
* Two Chelas in the Theosophical Society. See Chatteiji, Mohini,
and Laura Holloway
486 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1800. Two Students. Theosophical Gleanings or Notes on the Secret
Doctrine. Madras: Thompson & Co., 1893. ii, 57 pp.
Originally published in Lucifer, and issued by the Indian Section
of the Theosophical Society for free distribution to its members.
1801. Venkataram Aiya, J.A. Theosophy, In Its Bearing on the Future
of India, Madras, 1883. 14 pp.
* Ver Plank, Mrs. J. Campbell. See Keightley, Julia
1802. Vitruvius. The Morning Star. London: Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1898. vii, 577 pp.
An interpretation of the Greek zodiac in the light of the
planisphere of the temple of Dendera.
1803. W. G. W. Why Is Theosophy True? London: Theosophical
Publishing Society, 1891. 15 pp.
Issued as Theosophical Siftings IV, 1.
1804. Wachtmeister, Count Axel. How the Divine Nature Reveals Itself
Through Physical Nature. San Francisco: Mercury Print, 1897. 4
pp.
1805. Wachtmeister, Countess Constance. The Pearls of Truth. An
Allegory. London: C.L.H. Wallace, Philantropic Reform
Publishing Offices, 1885. 15 pp.
"Theosophia" appears in a vision, promising to spread "knowledge
all over the world" and "unite all men into one universal brotherhood."
487
1806.--------. Spiritualism in the Light of Theosophy. San Francisco:
Mercury Print, 1897. 15 pp.
Like many early members, Countess Wachtmeister came to
Theosophy after experimenting with Spiritualism. She relates some of her
experiences and gives H.P.B.’s views on the subject.
1807. Wakefield, Bandusia. The Doctrine ofRebirth. N.p., [c. 1895]. 8
pp.
1808. Walker, Edward Dwight. Reincarnation: A Study of a Forgotten
Truth. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin and Co., 1888. xiii, 350 pp.
Rept. London: Ward, Lock & Co., 1888. Rept. New York: John
Lovell, n.d.
1809. Ward, H. Snowden. The A. B. C. of Theosophy. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1891. 15 pp.
1810.--------. Karma and its Doctrine Re-incarnation, the Foundation
Doctrines of Theosophy. London: Percy Lund & Co., 1891. 14
pp.
1811. Westcott, William Wynn. Numbers: Their Occult Power and
Mystic Virtue. London: Theosophical Publishing Society, 1890. 52
pp.
1812. Williams, George C. An Introduction to the Study of the Yoga
Aphorisms ofPatanjali. Bombay: Tookaram Tatya for the Bombay
Theosophical Publication Fund, 1895. x, 18 pp.
1813. Wilson, H. Arthur. An Introduction to Theosophy. San Francisco:
Mercury Office, 1899. 109 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1814. A Working Glossary for the JJse of Students of Theosophical
Literature. New York: The Path, 1890. ii, 44 pp. 1892. ii, 62 pp.
1815. Wright, Claude Falls. An Outline of the Principles of Modern
Theosophy. Boston: New England Theosophical Corporation,
1894. ix, 192 pp. Rept. Boston: Theosophical Book Company,
1897. 188 pp.
I 1816. Wyld, George. Theosophy and the Higher Life; or, Spiritual
Dynamics and the Divine and Miraculous Man. London: Published
j for the Author by Trubner & Co., 1880. iv, 138 pp.
Seven essays on the spiritual life published when Wyld was
President of the British Theosophical Society. He resigned his office
when he discovered that Mme. Blavatsky did not believe in a personal
God. A second edition of the book was issued by James Elliott & Co.,
\ 1894, without the more overtly Theosophical pieces.
/ 1817.------- . How Best to Become a Theosophist. Boston: Occult
Publishing Co., 1889. 21 pp.
Wyld’s Presidential Address delivered before the British
Theosophical Society, Jan. 6, 1880. It was also published in the London
\ Spiritualist, Jan. 16, 23, 1880.
1818. Zoroastrianism in the Light of Occult Philosophy. Bombay:
Published for the Use of Students, November 1889. viii, 87 pp.
Extracts from The Secret Doctrine, Isis Unveiled, and other
Theosophical works, relating to the subject of Zoroastrianism.
CHAPTER 8
Critical Issues
Madame Blavatsky’s phenomena had been exciting wonder among
Theosophists for a decade before investigation was taken up by an
independent organization. During their visit to England in 1884, Col.
Olcott and Mme. Blavatsky came in contact with the Society for
Psychical Research. Formed two years prior, the S.P.R. included a
number of prominent Theosophists such as A.P. Sinnett and C.C.
Massey. F.W.H. Myers, one of the group’s founding members, was also
a member of the Theosophical Society. On May 2nd 1884 the Council of
the Society for Psychical Research appointed a Committee consisting of
Messrs. E. Gurney, Myers, F. Podmore, H. Stack, and the President,
Henry Sidgwick, "for the purpose of taking such evidence as to the alleged
phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society as might be offered
by members of that body at the time in England, or could be collected
elsewhere" (item 1895). (Richard Hodgson and Mrs. Sidgwick were later
added to this Committee.) The Theosophists responded enthusiastically
and testimony was given by Olcott, Sinnett, and Mohini Chatteiji during
May and June. Mme. Blavatsky was questioned during a visit to
Cambridge on Aug. 9th.
While the Committee was in the process of preparing its report,
news was received from India of the publication in Madras of
incriminating letters from Mme. Blavatsky to a certain Emma Coulomb.
Madame Coulomb had worked as a housekeeper at the Adyar
Theosophical headquarters and had been acquainted with Blavatsky in
Cairo in 1872. When Madame Coulomb and her husband appeared
unexpectedly in March 1880 at the Theosophical headquarters then in
489
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Bombay, they were taken in by the Theosophists and after unsuccessful
attempts to gain employment for them elsewhere they were gradually put
in charge of the household duties. Apparently Mme. Blavatsky before
leaving India for Europe in Feb. 1884 had discovered that Madame
Coulomb tried to extort two thousand rupees from a wealthy Indian
member. According to the statement of St. George Lane-Fox, a member
of the Board of Control created by Olcott to run the affairs of the
headquarters during his absence, Mme. Blavatsky told him: "Madame
Coulomb is no true friend of the cause; get rid of her as soon as you can"
(item 1884).
Charges of slander against the Theosophical Society and Mme.
Blavatsky, extortion, and waste of the Society’s funds, were brought
against Madame Coulomb by the Executive Committee of the General
Council on May 14, 1884. "All affidavits agreed unanimously, that her
presence at the headquarters were causing an immense waste of time,
energy and money, and that her continuance there was against the
interests of the T.S." ("Proceedings of the General Council" quoted in
item 1852). As Madame Coulomb offered no defence, she was
unanimously expelled from the Theosophical Society; her husband was
requested to resign, and as he could not make a decision, he was also
expelled. Yet the couple refused to leave or hand over the keys to
Madame Blavatsky’s rooms where Monsieur Coulomb was constructing
a new addition. Mme. Blavatsky was cabled in Europe and she
telegraphed the Coulombs "Sorry you go, prosper" (item 1841).
When the Theosophists entered Blavatsky’s rooms on May 18th, they
discovered a rough hole beginning at the floor and extending up about
twenty-two inches in the west wall dividing her bedroom from the room
that served as a library and housed the "Shrine," a black lacquered
cabinet hanging from the ceiling against the east face of the wall.
According to the Report of the Executive Committee, "the wall between
the excavation and the shrine as well as the back of the ‘shrine’ was
intact, and there was no communication between the two" (quoted in item
1852). Monsieur Coulomb claimed that he was in the process of
removing traces of the connection at Mme. Blavatsky’s request. The
Board was not impressed and the Coulombs were finally forced to leave
a week later.
In September 1884 the first installment of Blavatsky’s
correspondence with Madame Coulomb appeared as "The Collapse of
Koot Hoomi" in the Madras Christian College Magazine. It resulted in,
491
first, the sending out to India of William Quan Judge, one of the
American founders of the Theosophical Society then in Europe, to take
charge of the situation, and the immediate return of Col. Olcott, and then
Mme. Blavatsky. It was Mme. Blavatsky’s intention to prosecute the
Coulombs and she was so quoted in the London press before her
departure for Madras. Privately she instructed Olcott, "I need not sue
either for the forged letters or anything but for the vile defamation of
character, for the loss I have, of money, unable as I am to fulfill my
contract with Katkov [her Russian publisher]; for the agony and expenses
I have incurred...I tell you Olcott, we have got them at last. They have
overdone the thing" (T.S. Archives, Adyar). But upon her arrival at
Adyar, Olcott informed her that she must let the delegates to the
upcoming December annual convention decide the course of action to be
taken, and a committee constituted of eminent Indian lawyers, judges, and
statesmen, was created to advise her. When they handed in their report
suggesting she ignore the matter and it was unanimously adopted, Mme.
Blavatsky went into a coma. Her condition was considered serious enough
for her will to be made out on Jan. 31, 1885.
Madame Coulomb in turn brought an action against Maj.-Gen.
Henry Rhodes Morgan who had called her a forger, and Mme. Blavatsky
looked forward to being called into court as a witness. When this option
was also denied her by Olcott, he recalls that "It was terrible to see her.
Her face empurpled by the blood that rushed to her head, her eyes almost
standing out from their orbits and dead looking, as she tramped up and
down the floor, denouncing everybody and saying wild things" (198). Her
health broke down again, and on the advice of her doctor it was decided
to send her to Europe. She resigned her office of Corresponding
Secretary and left India March 31st never to return.
A spectator to these events was Richard Hodgson (1855-1905), a
young Cambridge graduate who had been sent out to India to investigate
for the S.P.R. Committee. Hodgson had been present at the December
1884 Convention and had been allowed to appeal for information from the
assembled delegates. Albert J. Edmunds, who saw Hodgson before he left
England in Nov. 1884, says that "He was in high spirits, and quite
hopeful of confirming for Madame Blavatsky her occult powers"
(Edmunds, Buddhist and Christian Gospels, Philadelphia, 1909, vol. 2,
p. 209). But in India, although Madame annotated his copy of Madame
Coulomb’s pamphlet, he witnessed no phenomena. And
visiting the Coulombs, the missionaries, and other
after four months
critics of the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Theosophists, he was openly declaring Mme. Blavatsky a Russian spy and
her Theosophic phenomena a huge imposture.
The S.P.R. Committee in its preliminary report issued before the
end of 1884 remained non-committal, but when it presented its
conclusions at a General Meeting of the S.P.R. on June 26, 1885, it
unanimously decided that Blavatsky had written the Coulomb
correspondence, at least those samples they had seen, and that the Shrine
at Adyar was an elaborately arranged mechanism for the insertion of
letters and other objects through a sliding panel at the back. Theosophists
of course disagreed.
The case as outlined here seems fairly straight forward, but in
actuality is one of remarkable complexity. Few people have really
submitted Hodgson’s Report to strict analysis. Those who have produced
the most detailed and revealing studies have been non-Theosophists like
Beatrice Hastings (1855) and Walter A. Carrithers (1833), a member of
the S.P.R. who in 1960 discovered the original documents relating to the
1885 Report in the S.P.R. Archives. As criticism has mounted against
Hodgson’s Report, the Society for Psychical Research has consistently
distanced itself from the author’s findings. A.J. Ellison, Pres, of the
S.P.R., wrote John Coats, Pres, of the T.S. (Adyar), on Aug. 5, 1977,
"The S.P.R. is a scientific body and has no corporate views. The
Hodgson Report was a report of a small committee set up to investigate
H.P.B. and was issued, like all other reports and papers, for the
consideration of members. For years now the S.P.R. literature, or most
of it, has had on it the usual disclaimer, i.e., that the Society has no
corporate views and the views expressed are those of the author only.
There has never therefore been anything to withdraw officially because
it was never officially issued."
If the S.P.R. is unable to withdraw its 1885 Committee report, it did
"make amends" a century after and publish an examination of Hodgson’s
conclusions by Dr. Vernon Harrison, a well-known handwriting expert.
In this major study, Harrison characterized Hodgson’s Report as "riddled
with slanted statements, conjecture advanced as fact or provable fact,
uncorroborated testimony of unnamed witnesses, selection of evidence
and downright falsity" (item 1851).
Madame Blavatsky was never allowed the redress she desired. Her
only reply at the time was five pages at the back of a pamphlet A.P.
Sinnett issued in 1886 (item 1894). Her unpublished correspondence to
Col. Olcott, President of the Theosophical Society, in the T.S. Archives
at Adyar often supply lengthy memoranda, "Points for Us" as she titled
493
one document. If Madame Coulomb really had any compromising letters
from her, she told Olcott, "I would never have gone to Europe, I would
have turned heaven and hell to prevent the B. of C. from turning them
out, I would have returned home at the first intimation of danger." And
to the question of why the Mahatmas had not intervened: "How are they
suppose to show it? By throttling the padris, or killing the Coulombs, and
interfering with the natural cause of events which they will never do—are
not allowed to do?" That the Theosophical Society had survived such a
crisis that would have destroyed any other group was proof of their
protection.
The Society for Psychical Research has successfully disclaimed
responsibility for its 1885 Committee Report, but its position in relation
to Vsevolod Solovyov’s A Modern Priestess of Isis (1913) cannot be as
easily denied. The book carried a Prefatory Note by Henry Sidgwick,
Founder-President of the S.P.R., stating on behalf of its Council that the
1895 translation had been "made and published with their approval." Mr.
Solovyov’s "entertainingnarrative" constituted "an important supplement"
to the inquiry of the 1884/85 Committee.
Solovyov (1849-1903), a Russian writer of historical novels, met his
famous country-woman in Paris in 1884, and joined the Theosophical
Society May 19, 1884. According to his letters to Blavatsky published in
Mme. Zhelihovsky’s reply to his book, he pestered her about occultism,
and had an astral visit from one of the Mahatmas, "after which,"
Blavatsky wrote Sinnett, "having had a good look at him Master would
have nothing more to do with him" (Letter 79, item 674).
After the publication of the S.P.R. Committee Report, Solovyov’s
views also changed. "Solovyov has turned against me like a mad dog,"
Blavatsky informed Sinnett early in Feb. 1886. But it was only after her
death in 1891 that he published his exposure portraying her as attempting
and bungling phenomena for his benefit. Beatrice Hastings’ study (item
1907) raises serious questions about Solovyov’s narrative and must be
taken into account when dealing with his book.
But Sidgwick and his friends did not let the matter rest there, and
added as an Appendix to A Modern Priestess of Isis a fourteen page study
by William Emmette Coleman on "The Sources Of Madame Blavatsky’s
Writings." Coleman (1843-1909), an ardent Spiritualist, had been a long
time critic of Blavatsky’s. Here he charged that "The doctrines,
teachings, dogmas, etc., of theosophy, as published by Helena Petrovna
Blavatsky, and affirmed to be derived from quasi-infallible Mahatmas of
494 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Thibet, were borrowed from philosophies and religions of the past and
present, with some admixture of modem science. There is nothing
original in this ‘Wisdom of the Gods,’ or ‘Wisdom Religion,’ save the
work of compilation into a composite whole of the heterogeneous mass
of materials gathered by Madame Blavatsky from so many sources, and
the garblings, perversions, and fabrications, indulged in by her in the
preparation of the system of thought called theosophy" (item 1919).
Coleman proceeded to ferret out what he called "plagiarism" in the
writings of Blavatsky by showing how she utilized data from other
authors in her books, giving the volumes and passages. His sweeping
charge of plagiarism has been repeated over the century without the
necessary verification, which a simple acknowledging of his titles cannot
supply. The book that drew his greatest ire was Blavatsky’s first opus,
Isis Unveiled, a work the author readily admitted the defects of, as it was
her first attempt at writing a book (see her last article "My Books" item
640, in response to Coleman’s charge). Interestingly, the portion that
exhibited the most plagiarism—quotingclassical sources from 19th century
authorities—was written by the publisher’s editor, Alexander Wilder.
Literary critic Beatrice Hastings notes of Coleman’s critique of Isis
Unveiled that "He took no account of the fact that H.P.B. was engaged
precisely in citing ‘authorities’ to support her in her quest for the thread
of occult science stretching from the most ancient to modem times. She
would quote indifferently from an old book or from a New York
newspaper so long as the matter served her purpose. Mr. Coleman found
it convenient to brush over her constant citation of names of authorities.
The truth is that there is scarcely a page of the book without a name; one
is whirled from authority to authority and left in no doubt whatever that
she is compiling and means to show that she is not inventing her subjects.
She could hardly have cited names more often without wearying the
reader. To know where to stop, as she did, requires literary tact” (item
1360).
Before a too ready admission of Coleman’s claims, aggravated by
his Spiritualist bias against Theosophy, the standard of the age in which
Blavatsky wrote, should be taken into account. The Transcendentalists
would also have been judged as plagiarists using Coleman’s standard.
Emerson had noted in "Quotation and Originality," "Most of the classical
citations you shall hear or read in journals were not drawn from the
originals, but from previous quotations in English books. ” Many of the
authors Coleman charged Blavatsky with plagiarizing from were still
495
alive, yet he remains alone in this allegation. Some, like Alexander
Winchell, whose 1883 World-Life had been, along with the Vishnu
Purana, one of Coleman’s main sources cited for The Secret Doctrine,
had actually presented their books to Blavatsky.
Even Coleman’s contemporaries remained unconvinced. W. Stanton
Moses, the editor of Light, who was not sympathetic to the claims of the
Theosophists, observed in the issue of May 30, 1891, "Mr. William
Emmette Coleman has been for a long time saying how much he knows
about Theosophy, and how very little other people know about it. In The
Golden Way he has what he calls ‘The Unveiling of Isis Unveiled. ’There
is nothing in what he says, which, we observe, is to be continued, which
leads us to suppose that if he has read the book he has mastered its
contents." In spite of his library of 8,000 books, Coleman could not
replicate the feat Blavatsky had achieved with only 100 books as he
claimed.
It was one of Coleman’s reckless remarks that provoked a suit for
libel from Mme. Blavatsky. On March 31, 1890, he confided in a letter
to Elliott Coues of Washington, D.C., "D.D. Home wrote me in 1882
that H.P.B. was a common woman in 1857-8 in Paris, that she had a
liaison then with Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, that in 1858 she
gave birth to a deformed boy, which died at Kieff in 1868" (Coues
Papers, State Historical Society of Wisconsin). When this appeared in the
New York Sun of July 20, 1890, as part of a lull page expose by Coues
of the Theosophists, Mme. Blavatsky brought a suit against Coues and the
N.Y. Sun.
Coues (1842-1899), who met Olcott and Blavatsky in London in
1884, had joined the Theosophical Society that year, formed a branch of
his own in Washington, D.C., and had risen to become President of the
American Board of Control, a regulatory body created by Olcott to
handle Theosophical affairs in America. When the Board was abolished
in 1886, and the American Section constituted, Coues was replaced by
W.Q. Judge, who was elected General Secretary. Coues pestered
Blavatsky about using her influence to have him made President of the
T.S. in America. When his final attempt failed in 1889, he began a series
of attacks in the Chicago Religio-Philosophical Journal which led to his
expulsion from the Society.
While previous hostile criticism, such as Hodgson’s Report, had
attracted a limited audience, Coues’ expose "Blavatsky Unveiled,"
appearing as it did in the Sunday edition of a major newspaper, had a
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
greater impact on the public. It provided in skeleton form the outline for
future critical biographies of Blavatsky. Coues argument that "Blavatsky
has been thoroughly exposed so often that nothing anyone could say
further would materially change her complexion for better or worse," did
not hold up before the court, and Blavatsky’s lawyer managed to focus
the case on her alleged relations with Prince Wittgenstein because of
which statement in the Sun she had "been injured, and held up to hatred,
contempt and ridicule of her fellows, and her influence as an author and
writer, and the sale of her writings and compilations, have been seriously
jeopardized" (Blavatsky vs. Coues: Complaint. Coues Papers, State
Historical Society of Wisconsin. Further details of the case furnished
from the court documents are given in item 1935).
Her death on May 8th 1891 terminated the suit according to the laws
of New York State at the time. A year later the Sun allowed a favorable
sketch of her life by Judge to be published and in an editorial of Sept. 26,
1892, remarked that Coues’piece was "without solid foundation" and that
they were misled into publishing his article.
In the decade after her death, William Quan Judge, then Vice
President of the Society, emerged as a staunch supporter of Blavatsky.
His image was enhanced by his ability to carry on the work of her
Eastern School of Theosophy, a private organization open only to T.S.
members though not connected with the Society. Mme. Blavatsky left no
instructions for the future of her School, but Judge’s suggestion that he
and Annie Besant lead it as co-heads was unanimously acceded to during
a meeting in London in May 1891 when a pink slip with the Mahatma’s
script stating "Judge’s plan is right" was discovered. Mrs. Besant’s news
that she had received letters from the Masters after H.P.B.’s death
electrified the audience at her farewell speech to the Secularists in August
1891. But after her visit to India in 1893/94 Mrs. Besant brought charges
against Judge of misuse of the Masters handwriting, and a Judicial
Committee was convened to hear the matter in London July 1894.
The Committee met only to declare that the charges did not relate to
Judge’s conduct as Vice-President and hence not subject to its
jurisdiction. More important, any statement by it "as to the truth or
otherwise of at least one of the charges as formulated against Mr. Judge
would involve a declaration on their part as to the existence or non­
existence of the Mahatmas," pronouncing the adepts an article of belief
and thus violating the neutrality of the Theosophical Society’s
Constitution. The Committee dissolved itself and the situation remained
497
unresolved. The matter became public later that year when W.R. Old,
former Gen. Sec. of the British Section, placed copies of the documents
gathered for the hearing in the hands of a newspaper reporter for the
London Westminster Gazette. Feelings increased when Judge "By
Master’s Direction" announced Besant’s position in the E.S. to be at an
end. The E.S.T. continued as two separate bodies claiming guidance of
the Masters under Besant and Judge.
At the December 1894 Annual Convention at Adyar, Madras, Mrs.
Besant put forward the motion that the President ask Judge to resign his
office of Vice-President. But at its April 1895 Convention the American
Section decided the matter for itself and declared its autonomy, electing
Judge President for life. Olcott responded by canceling the Section’s
Charter, those of the Branches that so voted, and the membership of all
who accepted this move. Judge died on March 21, 1896, after a year of
holding office.
Was Judge really as Olcott portrayed him in his reminiscences, "An
ambitious man, clutching at the chief office in our organization, for a
time bolstered up his influence by sending forged letters, purporting to be
from our Teachers, which were calculated to consolidate and increase his
authority by enlisting the services of his guileless dupe, Mrs. Besant, and
other of our most influential colleagues, and thus create a power behind
him that should seat him for life in my vacated chair"? (item 200).
Part of the mystery may be cleared up by understanding the actual
nature of the charge brought by Mrs. Besant against Judge: "I believe that
he has sometimes received messages for other people in one or other of
the ways that I will mention in a moment, but not by direct writing by the
Master nor by his direct precipitation; and that Mr. Judge has then
believed himself to be justified in writing down in the script adopted by
H.P.B. for communications from the Master, the message psychically
received, and in giving it to the person for whom it was intended, leaving
that person to wrongly assume that it was a direct precipitation or writing
by the Master himself—that is, that it was done through Mr. Judge, but
done by the Master" (item 1989).
The matter has been made murkier by involving a number of side
issues dealing with Theosophical ethics. Thus, Judge in his defence stated
that "either I am bringing you a true message from the Master, or the
whole T.S. and E.S.T. is a lie, in the ruins of which must be buried the
names of H.P.B. /. and the Masters. All these stand together or they fall
together" (item 1968). The influence of figures like Gyanendra
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Chakravarti of Allahabad, advisor to Besant, and Katherine Tingley,
advisor to Judge who took over the position of Head of his E.S. and
restructured the Theosophical Society in America, remain debated.
Jerome Anderson, a supporter of Judge and Tingley, later wrote Mrs.
Alice Cleather, another supporter of both, that "I am now convinced that
but for her [Mrs. Tingley] there would have been no secession no
T.S.A., no nothing, except that Judge would have had to acknowledge his
errors, or go out alone. For I am sure that all the supposed messages
from Master which he received were in reality faked by her, and that the
one ordering the ‘Split’ was undoubtedly received through her."
F. Pierce Spinks observes in his study on the fragmented state of the
Theosophical movement that emerged after the Judge case: "As a result
of this regrettable episode the Theosophical Society was thrown into
confusion; Theosophists lost each others’ friendship; bitterness of feeling
became manifest instead of the brotherhood which is the chief goal of all;
generations of Theosophists have suffered from the bitterness which
resulted; disintegration of the severed portion of the Society took
place—for it subdivided many times; each subdivision claimed to be in
touch with the White Lodge—a claim which is false on the very face of
it because most of them immediately became uncommunicative and non-
cooperative with the other groups, thus violating their very reason for
existence" (item 1996).
Critical Issues 499
A. The Coulombs, Richard Hodgson, and the S.P.R. Report
1819. Baird, A.T. "Theosophical Miracles." Ch. 2 in Richard Hodgson.
London: Psychic Press Limited, 1949, pp. 6-20.
Chapter 2 of this biography focuses more on Mme. Blavatsky’s
colorful personality and the events surrounding Hodgson’s Report than on
the findings of the Report. Three pages are relegated to its actual
contents, embellishing on Hodgson’s opinion that H.P.B. went out to
India primarily to act as a spy for the Russian Government but they were
unable to agree regarding payment. Makes no reference to the fact that
this and other assumptions of Hodgson were questioned by William
Kingsland (item 1864) and Beatrice Hastings (1855).
1820. Berger, Arthur S. "Richard Hodgson: A Portrait." Ch. 1 in Lives
and Letters in American Parapsychology. Jefferson, N.C.:
McFarland & Co., 1988, pp. 16-20.
Covers Hodgson’s exposure of Blavatsky and upholds his charges
against her, especially the most questioned—her role as a Russian spy and
author of the Coulomb letters.
1821. Besant, Annie. "Mrs. Besant and Madame Blavatsky." Letter to
the Editor, The Methodist Times, Nov. 28, 1889, p. 1164.
Replies to a letter by Rev. Patterson in the Oct. 31 Methodist
Times (item 1876) commenting on hers of Sept. 5 in that journal.
"Professor Patterson says every Theosophist who has expressed a wish
to see the [Coulomb] letters has been permitted to do so Madame
Blavatsky tells me she asked, and was refused; Mr. B. Keightley tells me
he asked and was refused, and that to his personal knowledge other
prominent Theosophists met with the same refusal. I do not know
Professor Patterson; I do know these Theosophists, and I prefer to accept
their word."
500 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1822.--------. "The Great Mare’s Nest of the Psychical Research
Society." Time (London), March 1891, pp. 193-204. Rept.
[Bombay, 1891.] 8 pp.
Overall review of the S.P.R. Committee Report, questioning the
motives of Richard Hodgson. Quotes the testimony of W.Q. Judge, who
says that Hodgson "pirated" his plan of Mme. Blavatsky’s rooms at
Adyar and utilized it in his 1885 Report.
1823.--------. H.P. Blavatsky and the Masters of the Wisdom. London:
Theosophical Publishing Society, 1907. 57 pp. Rept. Hollywood,
CA: Theosophical Publishing House, 1918. 109 pp. Rept.
London: Theosophical Publishing House, 1922, 1962. 60 pp.
A talk before the "H.P.B." Lodge, London, issued as a transaction
of that lodge, outlining the points for the defense in the
Coulomb/Hodgson case, with extensive quotes from pamphlets published
during 1884/85.
1824.--------. "Is Belief in the Masters Superstitious or Harmful?" The
Theosophist 35:3 (December 1913): 335-59. Rept. Adyar:
Theosophical Publishing House, 1919. 28 pp.
A lecture delivered March 12, 1911, in Madras. Says she met
Hodgson before he died, after he had experimented with the Boston
medium Mrs. Piper, and he told her, "If I had known what I know now,
I would never have issued the report as sent out."
1825. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. "The Theosophical Society in India."
Letter to the Editor, The Times of London, Oct. 9, 1884. Rept.
B:CW 6, pp. 287-88.
"With reference to the alleged exposure at Madras of a
dishonourable conspiracy between myself and two persons of the name
of Coulombs to deceive the public with occult phenomena, I have to say
that the letters purporting to have been written by me are certaintly not
501
mine. Sentences here and there I recognize, taken from old notes of mine
on different matters, but they are mingled with interpolations that entirely
pervert their meaning. With these exceptions the whole of the letters are
a fabrication."
1 826.-------- . ["H.P.B. on the Coulomb Forged Letters."] In The Latest
Attack on the Theosophical Society (item 1890), pp. 5-7. Rept.
B
:
C
W6
, pp. 295-97.
Identifies which of the letters published in the September 1884
Madras Christian College Magazine are hers, and which contain
interpolations.
1827.------- . "Letter No. XLI." In The Letters Blavatsky to
A.P. Sinnett (item 674), pp. 94-95.
Hodgson had declared at a dinner party given by a Government
official in Madras that he believed Mme. Blavatsky to be a Russian spy.
Blavatsky writes to him: "I expect from you a written statement over your
signature of all you heard from the Coulombs about my being a spy that
led you to form such a conclusion. I will also beg of you a description of
the paper or papers she showed you, for this time I mean to sue her and
put an end to such an infamy. This is a serious affair Mr. Hodgson and
it is yourself who have forced me into this course of action."
1828.---. "My Justification." The 52:11 (August1931):
659-61. Rept. B
:
C
W6
, pp. 415-17.
On the "Shrine" at Adyar and its accoutrements. Reveals that the
cabinet was ordered by Mme. Coulomb from a drawing made by her
husband. Hanging it made a number of holes in the wall.
1829.------- . "To Theosophists and Men of Honour." In The Letters of
H.P. Blavatsky to A.P. Sinnett (item 674), pp. 136-39. Rept.
B:CW 7, pp. 3-7.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Stringent reply to Hodgson’s Report. "The undersigned denies
most solemnly the charges brought forward in the said Report against her,
in addition to which—an implied fraud throughout—she is called in it
more than once ‘forger’ and a ‘Russian spy.’"
1830.--------. "Madame Blavatsky’s Protest." In The Occult World
Phenomena and the Societyfor Psychical Research (item 1894),
pp. 49-53. Rept. B:CW1, pp. 8-11.
Dated Jan. 14, 1886. A toned down version of item 1829.
1831.--------. "Juges ou Calomniateurs?" Le Lotus (Paris) 1:4 (June
1887): 193-203. Rept. B:CW 7, pp. 318-330, with English
translation by Charles Ryan, pp. 330-44.
Poses the "dilemma" of Hodgson and the S.P.R. Committee: "(a)
either to declare publicly that the charges of the Coulomb lady were
inventions—and in that case he and his learned Society would have to
share the sorry jeers flung at the Theosophists and be drowned in a flood
of ridicule, forever losing caste, as they say in India; or (b) sailing with
the current, it would have to proclaim, in order to keep from sinking, that
all the phenomena, the Mahatmas and their agents, were a huge
imposture. Compromise was impossible; it was a case of taking it or
leaving it."
1832. Butler, Nicholas Murray. "The Collapse of the Theosophists."
Science, Supplement Jan. 22, 1886, pp. 81-82.
Butler, then an American associate of the S.P.R., reviews Vol. 3
of the S.P.R. Proceedings, giving Hodgson’s and the Committee’s
conclusions, adding that "it is a real act of benevolence that this bubble
has been pricked once and for all, and in a scientific way."
1833. Carrithers, Walter A. [Adlai E. Waterman], "The Hodgson
Report, 1885-1960." The American Theosophist, Nov. 1960, Jan.
503
1961, pp. 219-24,6-11. Rept. as Obituary: The "Hodgson Report"
on Madame Blavatsky. Adyar: Theosophical Publishing House,
1963. xx, 93 pp.
Carrithers, a member of the S.P.R., evaluates the investigation on
"theosophical phenomena" by the Society for Psychical Research, their
conclusions on the Blavatsky-Coulomb correspondence and the "Shrine"
at Adyar. Examines in detail the placement of the Shrine and its
surroundings, reprinting Hodgson’s plan of the rooms, and the
phenomena connected with Mme. Blavatsky. Discloses over 33 examples
of "distortion, misquotation, misrepresentation, suppression and
fabrication of evidence and testimony so as tofound and sustain a single
thesis" as presented by Hodgson in his Report. Reviewed by 1845, 1902.
1834.--------. "Richard Hodgson (1855-1905)." In Damodar and the
Pioneers of the Theosophical Movement, by Sven Eek (item 74),
pp. 612-26.
Sketch of Hodgson’s achievements in psychical research, mainly
established by the reputation of his Report on Theosophical phenomena.
1835.--------[Adlai E. Waterman]. "The ‘Hodgson Report’ on Madame
Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Journal of the Society for
Psychical Research (London), December 1969, pp. 188-97.
The author replies to the review of his Obituaiy by Dr. Robert
Thouless in the Sept. 1968 Journal (item 1902).
1836. Coleman. William Emmette. "Alleged Exposure of Madame
Blavatsky’s Marvelous Occultic Phenomena." Religio-
Philosophical Journal (Chicago), June 6, 13, 1885.
Reviews the Sept, and Oct. Madras Christian College Magazine
with "The Collapse of Koot Hoomi," Madame Coulomb’s pamphlet and
Hartmann’s Report.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1837.--------. "The Theosophical Society’s New Departure." Religio-
Philosophical Journal, July 4, 1885, p. 1.
Reveals that Hodgson has returned to England and made his
report. "He declares that all the Blavatsky phenomena are fraudulent."
1838. Colenso [pseud.]. "Koot Hoomi Dethroned."Light (London), July
27, 1889, pp. 355-56.
Presents instances from Madame Coulomb’s account claiming that
the "celebrated miracles of Koot Hoomi were performed by Mme.
Blavatsky." Believes that "when Madame Coulomb tried to get Mme.
Blavatsky into the witness-box by prosecuting General Morgan for libel,
the flight of the Russian lady almost universally condemned her." Replied
to by Blavatsky in item 713, and Mrs. Cooper-Oakley in item 776.
1839. "The Collapse of Koot Hoomi. An Interview with Madame
Blavatsky." The Pall Mall Gazette (London), Oct. 23, 1884. Rept.
B:CW 6, pp. 308-13.
An interview with Mme. Blavatsky on the eve of her leaving
London for Madras. "I am returning to India to prosecute these traducers
of my character, these fabricators of letters." Says that "Madame
Coulomb was a woman whom I had befriended, and whose avarice I had
checked."
1840. Coulomb, Emma. "Madame Coulomb’s Testimony to H.P.B. in
1879." The Theosophist 52:11 (August 1931): 646-47.
Letter to the Ceylon Times, June 5, 1879, vouching for Mme.
Blavatsky’s character. "I have known this lady for these last eight years,
and I must say the truth that there is nothing against her character. We
lived in the same town, and on the contrary she was considered one of
the cleverest ladies of the age."
505
1841.--------. Some Account of My Intercourse with Madame Blavatsky
from 1872 to 1884. Madras: Higginbotham and Co., 1884. 114
pp. Rept. London: Elliot Stock for the Proprietors of the Madras
Christian College Magazine, 1885. ii, 112 pp.
Reprints the Blavatsky correspondence to her from the Madras
Christian College Magazine along with seven new letters, and recounts
in detail her relations with H.P.B., starting in Cairo in 1872. Provides
explanations of how Theosophical phenomena were arranged by herself
and her husband and her growing disenchantment with it all. "Oh heavens
what misery! Every day I grew more and more disgusted. I knew it to be
a lying business and a deceit, and yet, I could not speak out my mind,"
until she was ejected from the Theosophical compound in May 1884.
Replied to by items 1823, 1833, 1855, 1864, 1898, 1903.
1842. Davy, Ted G. "Blavatsky vs. Hodgson: Opportunity to Right a
Century-Old Wrong." The Canadian Theosophist 67:3 (July-Aug.
1986): 65-69.
Comments on the publication of Vernon Harrison’s paper in the
1986 S.P.R. Journal (item 1851), the situation it addresses, and notes
previous attempts dealing with the subject.
1843. Dyer, Frank J. "New Light on the Hodgson Report." The
American Theosophist 75:10 (November 1987): 371-76.
Appraises the impact of Harrison’s paper for Theosophists. "In
my opinion the Theosophical Society has an affirmative duty to respond
to the S.P.R.’s publication of Dr. Harrison’s article, which is nearly as
much of an historical event as was the Hodgson Report itself a century
ago."
1844. Eek, Sven. "Alexis and Emma Coulomb." In Damodar and the
Pioneers of the Theosophical Movement (item 74), pp. 573-90.
506 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
The career of the Coulombs who "added their names on the pages
of Theosophic history much in the same manner of Judas." Taken mainly
from item 1855.
1845. Endersby, Victor. Battle Royal of Hodgson Versus Hartmann
Versus Waterman. Napa: The Author, 1964. vi, 65 pp. + 18 pp.
illus.
Serious criticism ofWaterman’s Obituary (1833). Never answered.
* --------. Ch. 14-26 in The Hall of Magic Mirrors. Cited as item
809.
Examines the evidence by Theosophists and their critics on
phenomena produced through the "Shrine" at Adyar. Provides diagrams,
including one on the makeup of the shrine, to show how phenomena
would have appeared as described.
1846. A Former Associate of the S.P.R. Theosophy: the New Religion.
London: John Snow & Co.; W.R. Bradlaugh, [c. 1889/90]. 16
pp.
Raises the question "how did this clever woman make so many
people believe in her, and how is it that so many people believe still?"
And answers it by citing the Theosophical promulgation of the idea of
reincarnation, the denial of the Christian God, and the aid of a hired
accomplice, Madame Coulomb.
1847. Fuller, Jean Overton. "The Coulombs." Theosophical History 2:1
(January 1987): 1-3.
Based on an address at the Theosophical History Conference,
London, July 1986, Miss Fuller gives brief background on the Coulombs,
saying they were unfairly treated by the Board of Control when they were
evicted from Adyar in 1884. "With no references, and no money, where
507
would anyone expect them to go?—to the Society’s enemies, where they
could tell, and sell, the story of their mistreatment, embroidering it as
inspiration came."
1848. Gomes, Michael. "The Coulomb Case, 1884-1984." The
Theosophist, Dec. 1984-Feb. 1985, pp. 95-102, 138-47, 178-86.
Centenary survey of the events of 1884/85. Gives an update on the
research on this case during the past 100 years. Utilizes material from the
Madras Christian College, the S.P.R., and T.S. Adyar Archives.
1849.--------. "H.P. Blavatsky’s Annotations in Madame Coulomb’s
Pamphlet in the Archives of the Society for Psychical Research,
London." Theosophical History 1:9 (April 1986): 144-55.
Transcribes Blavatsky’s annotations in Richard Hodgson’s copy of
Madame Coulomb’s pamphlet now in the S.P.R. Archives, with the
circumstances of Madame Coulomb’s meeting the Reverend George
Patterson, which resulted in the publication of the Blavatsky-Coulomb
letters.
1850. Gribble, J.D.B. A Report of an Examination into the Blavatsky
Correspondence published in the Christian College Magazine.
Madras: Higginbotham & Co., 1884. iv, 31 pp.
Gribble, a retired Anglo-Indian judge, examined the Coulomb
letters printed in the Sept. 1884 Madras Christian College Magazine. His
conclusion was that if genuine, the letters must have been written by
Blavatsky, if forgeries then the only other people would be the Coulombs.
Exonerates Monsieur Alexis Coulomb by saying that he could not read
English well, yet the majority of letters were written in French! Replied
to by item 1869.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1851. Harrison, Vernon. TAccuse. An Examination of the Hodgson
Report of 1885." Journal ofthe Societyfor Psychical Research 53
(April 1986): 286-310.
Harrison’s paper focuses mainly on the handwriting aspect of
Hodgson’s Report and the capability of the "handwriting experts" cited
therein. Shows how Hodgson manipulated evidence to implicate
Blavatsky.
1852. Hartmann, Franz. Report of Observations Made During a Nine
Months9Stay at the Head-Quarters ofthe Theosophical Society at
Adyar (Madras), India. Madras: [The Author,] 1884. 60 pp.
Recounts the events which led to the expulsion of the Coulombs
from the Theosophical headquarters during the summer of 1884. Prints
the "Proceedings of the General Council" for May 14, 1884, giving the
charges against Madame Coulomb, along with the Report of the
Executive Committee to Col. Olcott on the state of Mme. Blavatsky’s
rooms as of May 18th, with a plan of those rooms showing how far the
excavation in the wall had proceeded. Includes an eight-page supplement
issued as an Appendix after the appearance of the Coulomb letters in the
Madras Christian College Magazine.
1853.--------. Ch. 5-14 in The Talking Image of JJrur. New York:
National Book Company; London: Gay and Bird, 1890.
Hartmann’s novel, originally serialized in Lucifer Dec. 1888 -Feb.
1890, is cited here for the further insight it provides into the character of
the Coulombs. Although set in Africa, Urur actually is the name of the
village adjacent to the Adyar T.S. compound, and under the guise of
fiction a number of Theosophists can still be identified, Madame and
Monsieur Corneille being the Coulombs.
1854.-------. Wahrheit undDichtung. Die "Theosophische Gesellschaft"
und der Wunderschrank von Adyar. Leipzig, ri.d. 31 pp.
509
"Truth and Fiction. The Theosophical Society and the Miracle
Cupboard at Adyar." Hartmann’s experiences at Adyar furnished in a
letter to Arthur Weber of Leipzig. The title is a play on Goethe’s
Dichtung und Wahrheit. Includes a variation of the plan for Blavatsky’s
rooms at Adyar.
1855. Hastings, Beatrice. The "Coulomb Pamphlet." Vol. 2 of the
Defence ofMadame Blavatsky. Worthing, Eng.: Beatrice Hastings,
1937. 105 pp.
Still the only study solely devoted to Madame Coulomb’s
pamphlet. Provides an exhaustive analysis of each of the letters attributed
to Mme. Blavatsky, comparing them with the events that actually
occurred. "In the case of so many of these pretended letters of
instruction, there is no practical sequence, no outcome...no actions
following on the instructions can be traced."
1856. Hodgson, Richard. "Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophical
Society." 27 pp.
Page proof dated "20.6.85." in the Archives of the Society for
Psychical Research, London, for an article for the Contemporary Review
that was never published. Covers the same area as item 1857.
1857.--------. "The Theosophical Society, Russian Intrigue or Religious
Evolution?" The Melbourne Age, Sept. 12, 1885.
A summation in four and a half columns of his case against
Blavatsky, hinting at her motivation as a Russian spy. Leslie Price
examines the similarities between this article and item 1856 in
Theosophical History, Oct. 1986 (item 1886).
1858.--------. "Mr. Sinnett’s Circular." Letter to the Editor, Journal of
the Societyfor Psychical Research, November 1885, pp. 109-12.
\
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Replies to item 1892. Defends the delay of the report of his
investigation in India. "The Report might have been ready in August had
it not been that many documents in connection with the subject were
forwarded to me by Mr. Hume, and these documents required a careful
examination. The delay is chiefly due to my examination of these
documents, and especially of a large mass of K.H. MSS., which they
included."
1859.------- . "Account of Personal Investigations in India, and
Discussion of the Authorship of the ‘Root Hoomi’ Letters."
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3, 1885, pp.
207-317 + 15 Appendices, pp. 318-80 + plates. Rept. in item
1904.
Begins by stating that the Theosophists he interviewed were "as a
body, excessively credulous, excessively deficient in the powers of
common observation—and too many of them prone to supplement that
deficiency by culpable exaggeration," and proceeds to devote 64 pages
establishing this by using information from the Coulomb letters backed
up by 15 Appendices. Part 2 of his Report, pp. 276-311, was devoted to
proving that Mme. Blavatsky was the author of the Mahatma letters.
"Acting in accordance with the principles upon which our Society
proceeded, I must express my unqualified opinion that no genuine
psychical phenomena whatever will be found among the pseudo-mysteries
of the Russian lady alias Root Hoomi Lai Sing alias Mahatma Morya
alias Madame Blavatsky." Replied to by items 809, 1822, 1823, 1829,
1830, 1831, 1833, 1855, 1863, 1864, 1894, 1903.
1860.--------."Col. Olcott and Mr. Hodgson." Letter to the Editor, Light
(London), October 23, 1886, p. 517.
Hodgson gives examples of Olcott’s unreliability as a witness.
Quotes Olcott’s diary of Nov. 4 and 11, 1883, on the spontaneous
transmission of letters through the agency of Damodar R. Mavalankar.
511
1861.--------. "Mr. Hodgson’s Researches in Theosophy." Letter to the
Editor, Boston Evening Transcript, May 18, 1887.
Defends his Report against statements made in a letter from
"Theosophical Student" in the May 14 Transcript. "My chief evidence
was based upon the statements of Theosophic witnesses and my own
examination of localities where marvelous phenomena were alleged to
have occurred; and I have in no single instance depended upon the
statements of the Coulombs for any conclusion at which I have arrived."
1862.--------. "The Defence of the Theosophists."Journal of the Society
for Psychical Research 9 (June 1893): 129-59. Rept. in item 1904.
Responds to charges of bias from Theosophists, especially Besant
in item 1822, and Sinnett (1148, 1149, 1894). Defends his measurements
and plan of Blavatsky’s rooms at Adyar. Denies use of Judge’s sketch.
"I cannot profess myself to attribute any importance to Mr. Judge’s
testimony." Upholds the verdict of his 1885 Report that Mme. Blavatsky
wrote the letters to Madame Coulomb and the Mahatma letters.
1863. Judge, William, Q. "The So-Called Expose of Madame
Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, The Index (Boston), March 11,
1886, pp. 441-42. Rept. in items 80, 743.
Judge reveals that he was sent to Adyar "expressly to be
'oncemed in the upcoming exposure by the Coulombs," and that he took
charge of everything the moment he arrived. Says that he removed the
Shrine to an adjoining room from which it disappeared, and that the hole
n the wall behind the Shrine was "an unfinished opening."
1864. Kingsland, William. Was She a Charlatan? A Critical Analysis of
the 1885 Report of the Society for Psychical Research on the
Phenomena connected with Mme. H.P. Blavatsky. London: The
Blavatsky Association, [1927]. 60 pp. Rept in item 958, 1904.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Evaluates various aspects of the S.P.R. Committee Report,
including the part played by Hodgson, the Coulombs, the "Shrine"
phenomena, and the handwriting evidence. "When the whole Report is
boiled down and strained out there is not a single witness, according to
Hodgson, in the whole case whose evidence is worth anything except the
Coulombs."
1865. Lunn, Rev. Henry S. "Mrs. Besant’s New Teacher, Madame
Blavatsky: Her Indian Record." The Methodist Times (London),
August 29, 1889, pp. 841-42.
"The conversion of Mrs. Besant to Theosophy is the most striking
event in the history of popular Atheism which has occurred during the
present century." Rev. Lunn contributes Blavatsky’s "Indian record,"
detailing the "terrible indictment" provided against her by the exposure
in the Madras Christian College Magazine and "completed" by Hodgson’s
Report. Hopes Mrs. Besant will investigate, "and if possible, disprove,
charges of so grave a nature which have been brought against her present
Mentor." Besant replied in item 689.
1866. Maher, Michaeleen. "Buried in the Archives." American Society
for Psychical Research Newsletter, January 1985.
Supplies a letter from Hodgson to J.T. Hackett, Jan. 25, 1885,
during his investigation of Theosophy in India describing his activities.
1867. Massey, C.C. "The Theosophical Society and the ‘Christian
World.’" Letter to the Editor, Light (London), Nov. 22, 1884, p.
488.
Gives the reasons for his resignation from the Theosophical
Society—thought it would pressure the General Council of the Society tc
take up a thorough investigationof Theosophical phenomena. Says he still
believes in the adepts, and that St. George Lane-Fox recently returned
from the Theosophical headquarters at Adyar examined Mme. Blavatsky’$
513
rooms after the eviction of the Coulombs and found that the hole in the
wall behind the Shrine "was not then completed."
1868. Mavalankar, Damodar K., comp. Circular. Adyar, Madras: The
Theosophical Society, Oct. 2, 1884. 10 pp.
Testimonials of confidence from various Theosophical lodges
(mainly Indian) for the Colonel and H.P.B. in response to the first
installment of the Coulomb letters.
1869. Morgan, H.R. Reply by H.R. Morgan to a Report of an
Examination of the Blavatsky Correspondence by J.D.B. Gribble.
Ootacamund: [The Author,] 1884. 19 pp. + xvi pp. 2nd ed. 21
pp. + xvi pp.
Maj.-Gen. Morgan was one of the very few Theosophists to
actually see the Coulomb letters attributed to Blavatsky. He was able to
examine one of the letters published in the Sept. 1884 Madras Christian
College Magazine that referred to him and pronounced it a forgery. He
challenges Gribble’s conclusions (item 1850) based on his own familiarity
of Blavatsky’s handwriting. A sixteen page Appendix contains letters to
the press from various prominent Theosophists (taken mainly from item
1890).
1870. Murdoch, John. Theosophy Unveiled. Madras: Christian
Knowledge Society, 1885. 93 pp.
Issued Jan. 10, 1885, at the time of the Coulomb exposure, the
first half is an indictment of the Theosophists, the second part deals with
their ideas for the revival of Indian literature and learning.
1871. Neff, Mary K. "What did Madame Blavatsky Say?" The American
Theosophist 34:12 (December 1946): 270-72.
514 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Reprints Blavatsky’s letter to the Times of London, Oct. 9, 1884
(item 1825) on the Coulombs, and her "Protest” (item 1830) on the
S.P.R. Committee Report from Sinnett’s Occult World Phenomena.
1872. Netherclift, F.G. "Report of Mr. F.G. Netherclift, Expert in
Handwriting, on the BlavatskyCoulomb Documents."Proceedings
of the Societyfor Psychical Research 3, 1885, pp. 381-82.
Netherclift reports on ten samples selected by Hodgson of
Blavatsky’s handwriting from letters sent to Madame Coulomb,
comparing them with her letters to F. Myers. Pronounces all samples
"undeniably hers."
1873. Olcott, Henry Steel. Circular Letter from the President of the
Theosophical Society, for Circulation among Theosophists and
Arya Samajists. Meerut, India, Sept. 7, 1880, 4 pp.
Known as the "Bates-Wimbridge Circular" this letter deals with
the first effect of the arrival of the Coulombs among the Theosophists in
Bombay 1880: a clash between two English members who came to India
with Blavatsky and Olcott in 1879—Rosa Bates and Edward Wimbridge
who supported her—and Madame Coulomb, who had been put in charge
of the household. Olcott chose to side with Madame Coulomb in this
domestic battle, and Miss Bates and Wimbridge left the Society to
become their bitter critics. This circular is countersigned by H.P.
Blavatsky as Corresponding Secretary.
1874.------- . "Colonel Olcott on Theosophy and Its Critics." The South
Australian Register, July 23, 1886. Rept. as "Theosophy and Its
Opponents." The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne), September
1886, pp. 3281-82.
Letter to Mr. C.R. Reimers dealing with "the recent crusade of
the London S.P.R. against Madame Blavatsky." "I have been grieved and
shocked with Mr. H.’s [Hodgson’s] conduct."
515
* --------. "H.P.B. and the S.P.R. Report.” and "The Coulomb
Missionary Conspiracy." Ch. 9, 14 in Old Diary Leaves. Third
Series. Cited as item 198.
Olcott breaks his silence on the charges against Blavatsky and
recalls the events that led them into relations with the S.P.R. while
visiting London in 1884. Offers eight points to be taken into consideration
when dealing with Hodgson’s and the S.P.R. Committee investigation.
Describes the situation in Madras that awaited Blavatsky upon her arrival
in Dec. 1884 and the decision reached during the Dec. 1884 T.S.
Convention against her prosecuting the Coulombs for libel.
1875. Patterson, Rev. George, ed. "The Collapse of Koot Hoomi."
Madras Christian College Magazine, Sept., Oct. 1884, pp. 199-
215, 289-316. Rept. as The Collapse of Koot Hoomi. An Incident
in the Early History of Theosophy in India. Madras: Christian
Literature Society, 1904. vi, 74 pp.
The first appearance of the Coulomb letters implicating Blavatsky
in fraud. The Sept, issue contained fifteen letters from H.P.B. to Emma
Coulomb; the Oct. issue added four more plus the first part of a letter
printed in the Sept issue. Advance copies of the article were sent out to
the Indian press by Sept. 10. The reprint includes additional reviews
relating to Mme. Blavatsky that appeared in the magazine.
1876.--------. "Mrs. Besant and Madame Blavatsky." Letter to the
Editor, Methodist Times, October 31, 1889, p. 1058.
Rev. Patterson counters Besant’s statement in a letter to the
Methodist Times of Sept. 5, 1889 (item 689) that "the Coulombs earned
their money." Says the only money the Coulombs made from the
Missionaries was not more than £ 30. Indicates that he has other
unpublished letters of Blavatsky.
--------. "The Exposure of Madame Blavatsky." The British
Weekly, May 21, 28, 1891, pp, 49-50, 66.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Background on the 1884 exposure of Blavatsky in the Madras
Christian College Magazine and the receipt of the letters from Madame
Coulomb by Patterson. "The publication of these letters created a
profound sensation throughout India."
1878. Podmore, Frank. "Madame Blavatsky and the Society for
Psychical Research." Time (London), February 1886, pp. 192-
205. Rept. as "Madame Blavatsky and Theosophy." Ch. 6 in
Studies in Psychical Research. London: Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trubner & Co., 1897, pp. 163-94.
A review of S.P.R. Proceedings 3, part 9, for 1885, with
background on Mme. Blavatsky and her phenomena. Outlines parts of
Hodgson’s Report dealing with the Coulombs and the Mahatma letters
script. The reprint has been edited slightly and concludes with a resume
of Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis from item 1911.
1879.------- . "Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophical Society." Good
Words, February 1892, pp. 82-86.
Covers much the same area as item 1878. Reiterates that "the
painstaking analysis of Mr. Hodgson (whose verdict was confirmed by
the well-known expert, Mr. Netherclift) fixed the main authorship of the
Koot Hoomi letters on Madame Blavatsky beyond all reasonable doubt."
1880. Price, Leslie. "The Stack Memorandum." Theosophical History
(London) 1:1 (January 1985): 4-12.
Comments by J. Herbert Stack, a member of the 1884 S.P.R.
Committee on Theosophical phenomena, on what to include or delete
from the draft of the Committee’s preliminary report, plus his covering
letter of Oct. 17, 1884 to Henry Sidgwick.
------- . "Astral Bells in Notting Hill." Theosophical History 1:2
(April 1985): 25-35.
517
Prints the text of an Appendix deleted from the S.P.R. Committee
preliminary report which testified to the production of an "astral bell"
sound by Mme. Blavatsky Sept. 23, 1884, Gurney and Myers being
present.
1882.--------. "The British Letter." Theosophical History 1:3 (July
1985): 54-59.
Two letters from C.C. Massey to Henry Sidgwick during the
S.P.R. investigation, relating an attempt by Mme. Blavatsky to have
phenomena produced for him through the intercession of the medium
Mrs. Hollis-Billing.
1883.--------. "The Blavatsky Case on the Eve of the Centenary."
Theosophical History 1:4 (October 1985): 63-72.
Originally presented as a paper at the S.P.R. Conference, Oxford,
Sept. 1984. "Although the Society has no collective views, this
Committee’s [1885] report, endorsed as it was by consensus, has been
relayed worldwide, through the century. Every year several books are
published which more or less take it as gospel to say nothing of
encyclopedias. The colorful career of H.P.B. tempts writers into stringing
together sensational bits, of varying degrees of reliability, and
sidestepping the real problems of the case. And this is the S.P.R.’s most
famous case. We can’t escape it. It will haunt us unless we do itjustice."
1884.--------. "The First S.P.R. Man at Adyar?" Theosophical History
1:4 (October 1985): 74-80.
Statement of S.P.R. and T.S. member St. George Lane-Fox on his
experiences at Adyar during 1884, reprinted from Borderland April 1895
(item 969), plus an 1884 letter from C.C. Massey to F.W.H. Myers on
his conversation with Lane-Fox recently returned from the Adyar
Theosophical headquarters.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1885.------- . "Massey’s Resignation and the S.P.R." Theosophical
History 1:5 (January 1986): 112-14.
Extract from the letter by Massey to Light, July 26, 1884 (item
1403).
1886.--------. "An Earlier Hodgson Report." Theosophical History 1:8
(October 1986): 208-10.
Page proof of Hodgson’s unpublished article "Madame Blavatsky
and the Theosophical Society" (item 1856) compared with his similar
piece in the Melbourne Age Sept. 12, 1885 (item 1857).
1887.------- . Madame Blavatsky Unveiled? London: Theosophical
History Centre, 1986. 44 pp.
This lecture delivered before the London S.P.R., April 12, 1983,
questions the verdict of the report on Mme. Blavatsky published in the
1885 Proceedings of that Society. Indicates some of the difficulties in the
case. "Any writer or speaker who says the S.P.R. exposed Madame
Blavatsky is only exposing his own ignorance."
1888. Sidgwick, Eleanor. "Notes on Certain Phenomena Not Dealt With
in Mr. Hodgson’s Report." Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research 3, 1885, pp. 382-96.
Mrs. Sidgwick attempts to explain the phenomenal receipt of
letters from the Mahatmas during Blavatsky’s 1884 visit to Elberfeld,
Germany, and "astral" visitations testified to by Solovyov and others.
Calls it a "collective hallucination."
1889. Sidgwick, Henry. [Reply to A.P. Sinnett.] Journal of the Society
for Psychical Research 1:18 (July 1885):462-64.
Critical Issues 519
Replies to Sinnett’s criticism of the methodology of the S.P.R.
Committee (item 1891). "We had to consider whether any part of the
whole mass of evidence offered in connection with Theosophy could be
made available for the establishment of any of the psychical laws hitherto
unrecognized by science, which is our frontier to investigate."
1890. [Sinnett, Alfred Percy, ed.] The Latest Attack on the Theosophical
Society. London: Issued by the Council of the London Lodge,
1884. 23 pp.
The Theosophical response in England to the first installment of
the Coulomb letters in the Sept. Madras Christian College Magazine.
Prints Mme. Blavatsky’s remarks on the contents of the first ten letters
and her letter to the Times of London Oct. 9. Reprints an article from the
Calcutta Indian Mirror of Sept. 20, 1884, on the missionaries versus the
Theosophists in India.
1891.--------. Letter to the Editor, Journal of the Societyfor Psychical
Research, July 1885, pp. 461-62.
Criticizes the investigation by the S.P.R. Committee on
Theosophical phenomena. "Its views have been formed in a consultation
which has not been assisted by the suggestions of any one whose
sympathies would render him an efficient critic of Mr. Hodgson’s
Report." Replied to by item 1889.
1892.--------. "The Society for Psychical Research and Madame
Blavatsky." Letter to the Editor, Light (London), Oct. 17, 1885,
p. 489. Rept. [London: The Author, 1885.] 4 pp.
Four months have elapsed since Hodgson read his verdict of fraud
against Mme. Blavatsky. Sinnett inquires why the charges have not been
published to a allow a reply. Replied to by item 1858.
520 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1893.------- . "Mr. Sinnett’s Resignation." Letter to the Editor, Journal
of the Societyfor Psychical Research, October 1885, pp. 86-87.
"The course pursued in reference to the persons whose reputation
is assailed in the reports recently submitted to the Society, and
substantially adopted by its authorities, is open, in my opinion, to
unequivocal disapproval. Under these circumstances it would be
undesirable for me to remain a member."
1894.--------. The "Occult World Phenomena" and the Society for
Psychical Research. London: George Redway, 1886. 60 pp.
Challenges Hodgson’s evaluation of his testimony given in The
Occult World. Points out a number of instances in Hodgson’s Report
which are at odds with the events that actually occurred. An Appendix
reprints evidence countering Hodgson by Theosophists from item 1900.
Five pages are given to "Madame Blavatsky’s Protest" (item 1830).
1895. Society for Psychical Research Committee. First Report of the
Committee of the Society for Psychical Research, Appointed to
Investigate the Evidence for Marvelous Phenomena Offered by
Certain Members of the Theosophical Society. [London, n.p.,
1885.] 130 pp.
This preliminary report, also known as the "pink" report because
of the color of the cover, was sent out with the heading "Private and
Confidential" to members and associates of the S.P.R. It specifies the
nature of the evidence to be examined and the witnesses for Theosophical
phenomena. Forty-two appendices provide the text of interviews with
Col. Olcott, May 11, 27, Mohini Chatteiji, June 10, 1884, before
members of the Committee, and testimony from Theosophists either
previously published or communicated to the Committee on the
appearance of the Mahatmas and other phenomena. Pages 25-28 has a
"Note on the Coulombs."
521
1896.--------. "Report of the General Meeting." Journal of the Society
for Psychical Research, June, July 1885, pp. 420-24, 451-60.
A synopsis of Hodgson’s Report was read at the meeting of Fri.
May 29, and continued at the meeting of June 26, where the conclusions
of the committee appointed to investigate Theosophical phenomena were
also presented by Prof. Sidgwick. It upheld the validity of the Coulomb
letters, that the "Shrine" at Adyar was a trick cabinet, and that the
phenomena attributed to the Mahatmas were (a) part of Mme. Blavatsky’s
deception, or, (b) spontaneous hallucination. A number of Theosophists
present spoke, including Sinnett and Mohini Chatteiji.
1897.--------. "Report of the Committee Appointed to Investigate
Phenomena Connected with the Theosophical Society."
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3, 1885, pp.
201-7.
Prints the "Statements and Conclusion of the Committee" giving
the genesis of its investigation and Hodgson’s in India. Submits the
verdict read at the S.P.R. General Meeting of June 26, 1885. Hodgson’s
Report was appended as a Part 2.
1898. Studd, Samuel. Concerning H.P.B.: An Examination into the so-
called proofs of fraud on the part of Madame Blavatsky.
Melbourne: Theosophical Book Depot, n.d. 12 pp. Rept. in The
Theosophist Mar., Apr. 1906, pp. 410-16, 504-12. Rept. in The
Theosophic Messenger (Chicago) May, July, Aug. 1906, pp. 114-
18, 147-49, 163-68.
An Address delivered before the Melbourne Branch T.S. in 1903.
Analyzes the correspondence printed in Madame Coulomb’s pamphlet.
Concludes that it consisted of "a few genuine letters of no significance,
together with a number of forgeries, in which, here and there, genuine
phrases are thrown in to give verisimilitude to the whole."
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1899. Theosophical Society Committee. "Report of the Committee
Appointed by the Annual Convention of the Theosophical Society
to Advise Madame Blavatsky as to the best course to be taken by
her with reference to certain letters published in September and
following numbers of the Christian College Magazine." In the
Official Report ofthe Ninth Session ofthe General Convention and
Celebration of the Ninth Anniversary at Madras, December 27th-
31st, 1884. Madras: The Theosophical Society at Adyar, 1885, p.
99.
The Committee proposed the following: "Resolved: That the letters
published in the Christian College Magazine under the heading ‘Collapse
of Koot Hoomi,’ are only a pretext to injure the cause of Theosophy; and
as these letters necessarily appear absurd to those who are acquainted
with our philosophy and facts, and as those who are not acquainted with
those facts could not have their opinion changed even by ajudicial verdict
given in favour of Madame Blavatsky, therefore it is the unanimous
opinion of this Committee that Madame Blavatsky should not prosecute
her defamers in a court of law."
1900.--------. Report of the Result of an Investigation into the charges
against Madame Blavatsky, brought by the Missionaries of the
Scottish Free Church at Madras and Examined by a Committee
appointed for that purpose by the General Council of the
Theosophical Society. Madras: The Theosophical Society at
Adyar, 1885. 152 pp.
Explains the decision for the T.S. Committee Report given at the
Ninth Annual Convention by detailing nine itemized reasons. The
evidence against Mme. Blavatsky is examined and disposed of. Twelve
appendices drawn from various sources supply testimony for the validity
of Theosophical phenomena and the Masters. The report was to have
been prepared by Judge Khandalavala of Poona, one of the members of
the Committee, but it was eventually edited by Franz Hartmann.
1901. A Theosophical Student. "Mr. Hodgson and Theosophy." Boston
Evening Transcript, May 14, 1887, p. 10.
523
Calls for an appraisal of Hodgson’s Report based on "the same
scrutinizing methods and tests of accuracy which he sought to impose
upon others." Gives examples of "the inaccuracy of Mr. Hodgson’s
method." Replied to by item 1861.
1902. Thouless, Robert H. "Reviews: Obituary—The 1
Hodgson Report'
on Madame Blavatsky." Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research 44 (September 1968): 341-49.
Agrees that Hodgson’s Report lacks its vaunted impartiality. "By
the time he wrote the Report his hostility to Mme. Blavatsky and his
contempt for the ‘native’ and other witnesses on her side are apparent."
But it still stands. Replied to by item 1835.
1903. Vania, K.F. Madame H.P. Blavatsky, Her Occult Phenomena and
the Societyfor Psychical Research. Bombay: Sat Publishing Co.,
1951. xiv, 488 pp.
Part 1establishes the testimony for Blavatsky’s occult phenomena,
quoting extensively from Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, Sinnett’s Occult
World, Hume’s Hints, and early issues of The Theosophist. Vania adds
rare material from the Indian press of 1880s. Part 2 dissects the Coulomb
letters and Hodgson’s Report, pointing out numerous discrepancies. A
concluding chapter takes up Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis (1913).
Mr. Vania’s work is an important though still relatively unknown
contribution to the study of this case.
* Waterman, Adlai E. See Carrithers, Walter A.
1904. Webb, James. Introduction to The Societyfor Psychical Research
Report on the Theosophical Society. New York: Amo Press,
1976. [9 pp.]
Webb’s introduction to the reprint of Hodgson’s Report (1859
along with items 1862 and 1864) surveys the 1884/85 relationship of the
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
S.P.R. with the Theosophists mainly through the response of Frederic
Myers, the S.P.R. Committee member who was also a member of the
Theosophical Society.
B. Solovyov’s Modem Priestess of Isis
1905. Endersby, Victor. "Interesting Characters. Vsevolod Sergyeevich
Solovyoff.” Theosophical Notes (Napa, CA), May 1952, pp. 11-
17.
A Theosophical interpretation of Solovyov’s character. "Here is
a man, who, upon his first meeting with H.P.B. was ‘chilled,’ yet in a
few months had received an actual visit from a Mahatma, a privilege that
thousands of Theosophists would give up a limb to get...And then, in a
very brief time, becomes the vilest of all traitors in the Movement. There
is no other recorded case that quite parallels this."
1906. Freer, Ada Goodrich [X]. "The Testimony of Solovyoff."
Borderland (London) 2:8 (April 1895): 175-77.
Miss X reviews A Modern Priestess of Isis. "Mr. Solovyoff
wanted to learn ‘occult secrets,’ Madame Blavatsky wished for notices in
the Russian press. Both were disappointed."
1907. Hastings, Beatrice. "Solovyoffs Fraud." The Canadian
Theosophist, July 15, 1943-Feb. 15, 1944. Rept. Gladesville,
Australia: John Cooper, 1984. Rept. Edmonton, Canada:
Edmonton Lodge of the Theosophical Society in Canada, 1988. 76
pp.
Textual analysis of Solovyov’s narrative separating the events that
occurred from what Mrs. Hastings believes to be Solovyov’s
embellishment. The 1988 reprint has a twelve page introduction on Mrs.
Hastings career and research in this field.
525
1908. Hunt, Wilhelmine J. "A Modem Priestess of Isis. A Review." The
Theosophist 16: 9 (June 1895): 596-600.
Addresses Solovyov’s tendency to exaggerate, citing his letters to
Mme. Blavatsky in Appendix A of his book to show discrepancies and
inconsistencies in his narrative.
1909. Johnston, Charles and Vera. "The Priestess of Isis and her
accusers." Letter to the Editor, The Irish Theosophist, Mar. 15,
1895, pp. 105-6. Rept. in the Supplement to The Theosophist,
April 1895, pp. xxi-ii.
"The whole of Mr. Solvoyoffs narrative is so completely coloured
by his subsequent ideas, that it is practically a work of fiction, the only
one of his popular romances that Englishmen are likely to read."
1910. Neff, Mary K. "A Modem Priestess of Isis." Appendix 2,
Personal Memoirs of H.P. Blavatsky (item 1048), pp. 309-11.
A summary outline of Solovyov’s book.
1911. Podmore, Frank. "Reviews: A Modern Priestess of Isis."
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 11, March
1895, pp. 155-61.
Extended digest of the contents of A Modern Priestess of Isis. "In
Mr. Solovyoffs vivid narrative, as englished by Dr. Leaf, we are
privileged to look on at the process of manufacture, to watch the gradual
evolution of history into myth, of conjuring tricks into occult phenomena,
of Madame Blavatsky’s colleagues into her dupes or her accomplices."
1912. Solovyov, Vsevolod S., Vera Zhelihovsky, Nadejda Fadeyev,
Emilie de Morsier, William Q. Judge, H.S. Olcott. "Occult
Phenomena at Paris." Light (London), July 12, 1884, p. 282.
Rept. as Appendix 35 in item 1895.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Dated from Paris, June 21, 1884, this letter attests to H.P.B.’s
predicting the contents of an unopened letter received in the post.
1913.--------. A Modern Priestess of Isis, Trans, by Walter Leaf.
London: Longmans, Green, & Co., 1895. Rept. New York: Amo
Press, 1976. xix, 366 pp.
Chapters I to XXV are a rambling account of Solovyov’s
European encounter with Blavatsky, replete with their conversations and
culminating in a long letter to him titled "My Confession." "I was not
only a spectator of her repulsive actions, but experienced in my own
person her vile revenge; and yet, when I recall certain moments of my
conversation with her, I cannot think of her without pity." Chapters
XXVI to XXIX tell the story of the origin of the Theosophical Society
based on H.P.B.’s letters to A.N. Aksakov. Leafs translation is based
on eight articles that originally appeared in Russki Vestnik of Moscow for
1892, reprinted at St. Petersburg 1893. The English translation contains
three Appendices: A. An Abstract of Mme. Zhelihovsky’s pamphlet H.P,
Blavatsky and a Modern Priest of Truth (1914); B. Solovyov’s reply; C.
Wm. Emmette Coleman’s "The Sources of Madame Blavatsky’s
Writings" (1919). Replied to by items 1903, 1907, 1908, 1909, 1910,
1914.
* X. See Freer, Ada Goodrich
1914. Zhelihovsky, Vera P. "H.P. Blavatsky and a Modem Priest of
Truth." Trans, by Walter Leaf. Appendix A. (item 1913), pp.
285-321.
An abridged translation of Yelana Petrovna Blavatskyaya: i
sovremenniy zhretz istini, St. Petersburg, 1893, 177 pp. Mme.
Zhelihovsky, "Madame Y" of Solovyov’s Modern Priestess of Isis, uses
letters from Solovyov to her sister, testifying to his regard for Mme.
Blavatsky and his interest in occultism, to portray a different picture of
his character than the one given in his book.
527
C. Wm. E. Coleman and Plagiarism
1915. Coleman, William Emmette. "A Splendit Fraud. Sources of ^
Theosophical Literature—Where Blavatsky Got Her Book." The J
Daily Examiner (San Francisco), July 8, 1888, p. 12.
States the sources for Theosophical literature are Paracelsus,
Eliphas Levi and the Cabala, Brahmanism and Buddhism.
1916.--------. "The Secret Doctrine of Madame Blavatsky, in two parts
and five papers." Religio-Philosophical Journal, Aug. 10, 17, 24,
31, Sept. 7, 1889.
Contrasts the teaching in The Secret Doctrine, especially on
reincarnation and the seven principles, with earlier Theosophical
accounts, Esoteric Buddhism and Isis Unveiled, and 19th century
knowledge of Buddhism, Hinduism, and Asian scriptures.
1917.--------. "The Unveiling of Isis Unveiled. A Literary Revelation."
The Golden Way (San Francisco), Apr.-Oct. 1891.
Lists 32 books, including the Bible, to show where Blavatsky drew
her material, with the number of passages quoted from each work. "The
books used by her in compiling ‘Isis’ were almost entirely confined to the
current nineteenth century literature. Scarcely one of the old and rare
books mentioned and quoted from, in ‘Isis,’ had ever been seen by her."
Replied to by item 640.
1918.--------. Plagiarism in Theosophical Teachings. Bombay, [1891].
16 pp.
Compiled from items 1916 and 1917.
--------. "The Sources of Madame Blavatsky’s Writings."
Appendix C. (item 1913), pp. 353-66.
1919.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Surveys the sources of 19th century Theosophical literature, mainly
for Blavatsky’s major works though Sinnett’s Esoteric Buddhism is
mentioned. Lists the titles she drew her quotes from and charges her both
with "wholesale plagiarism" and "literary forgery." Identifies the sources
she drew her ideas from: Spiritualism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Paracelsus,
the Cabala, the Platonists, Neo-Platonism, Gnosticism, Zoroastrianism,
the Rosicrucians, Christianity and the Bible, modem science and
philosophy, etc.
1920. Liljegren, S.B. Bulwer-Lytton’s Novels and Isis Unveiled. Essays
and Studies on English Language and Literature, 18. Upsala-Lund,
1957. 60 pp.
Based on his earlier study Quelques Romans Anglais Source d'une
Religion Moderne (Paris: H. Champion, 1930. 20 pp.), Liljegren
advances the theory that Bulwer-Lytton’s novels, especially The Last
Days of Pompeii, were the real source of inspiration for Blavatsky’s Isis
Unveiled.
1921. Shepard, Leslie. "TheAnacalypsis of Godfrey Higgins—Precursor
of Isis Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine." Theosophical History
1:3 (July 1985): 46-53.
Shepard says Higgins 1833-36Anacalypsis was "a precursor of the
themes, method and ground plan of H.P.B.’s writings."
D. Elliott Coues and the N. Y. Sun Libel Case
1922. Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna. "Professor Elliott Coues and Koot
Hoomi." Letter to the Editor, Light, May 18, 1889, p. 241. Rept.
B:CW 11, pp. 210-11.
"To my certain knowledge Professor Coues has never received any
letter from the individual known as Koot Hoomi, not through me, at any
rate."
529
1923.--------. "Light on the Path." Letter to the Editor, Light, June 8,
1889, pp. 277-78. Rept. B:CW 11, pp. 284-86.
Counters Coues’ letter reprinted in Light, June 1 (item 1928), by
supplying her itinerary for 1884 and meetings with Mabel Collins Cook.
Light on the Path was published at the beginning of 1885. She did not
meet Mrs. Cook again till May 1887. How could she have begged her
"four years ago" as Coues has it, to write to him saying Koot Hoomi had
inspired the book?
* --------. To All Theosophists. Cited as item 629.
Dated June 21, 1889, this pamphlet reprints letters by
Theosophists from Light and elsewhere, along with Blavatsky’s own
statements rebutting Coues’ allegation that she urged Mabel Collins Cook
to write him stating that Light on the Path was inspired by one of the
Theosophical Mahatmas.
1924.--------. "Madame Blavatsky Appeals to the Law." Letter to the
Editor, The Path, Sept. 1890, pp. 187-88. Rept. B:CW 12, pp.
332-34.
"For some fifteen years I have calmly stood by and seen my good
name assailed by newspaper gossips," writes Mme. Blavatsky. But the
Sun’s charge of having improper relations with Prince Emile
Wittgenstein, "by whom the paper says I had an illegitimate son," reflects
so strongly on her character that she will sue for libel.
1925. Blavatsky Association. "Reproduction of the Articles in the New
York Sun.”Proceedings of the Blavatsky Association 2, Nov. 13,
1925, pp. 38-39.
The Blavatsky Association obtained photographic copies of the
July 20, 1890 Sun article, Judge’s reply, and the "retraction" paragraph
of Sept. 26, 1892 of which a facsimile is reproduced. Says the Sun acted
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
honorably as the "retraction" "was not forced from them by legal action";
but Judge’s suit against the paper was dropped the next day.
1926. [Bundy, John C.] "Muscovite Mesmerism. A serio-comic farce by
Helen Petrovna Blavatsky & Co." Religio-Philosophical Journal,
June 8, 1889, pp. 4-5.
Rejoinder by the editor of the R.P.J. to a private letter sent by
Bertram Keightley to members of Blavatsky’s Esoteric School urging
them to make it their duty to "write and protest vigorously" against
attacks on their Society. If they remain unheeded, to cease subscription
to such papers and induce as many of their friends to do the same. Bundy
prints letters from Richard Harte to Coues, Blavatsky to Coues, along
with Keightley’s, and the Rules and Pledge of the Esoteric Section.
1927. [Coues, Elliott.] "A Line from Koot Hoomi." The Chicago
Tribune, May 5, 1888, p. 12.
"Facsimile of the official communication from the recognized
Head of the Order who resides in Thibet, and is a million or more years
old," palmed off by Coues at the Chicago Theosophical Convention of
April 1888.
1928.------- . "Attention Theosophists! A Little More ‘Light on the
Path’ for Your Benefit." Letter to the Editor, Religio-
Philosophical Journal, May 11, 1889, p. 5. Rept. in Light, June
1, 1889, p. 264.
Makes public a letter from Mabel Collins Cook to him, Apr. 18,
1889, stating that when she wrote him that her book Light on the Path
was received through the inspiration of one the Masters, it was because
Mme. Blavatsky "begged and implored" her to do so. She wishes now to
correct the record. Coues sends it to the R.P.J. saying he is happy to
help her. Replied to by items 629, 1923, 1937.
531
1929.--------. "Through the Gates of Gold.” Letter to the Editor,
Religio-Philosophical Journal, June 1, 1889, p. 5.
Corrects his statement that Light on the Path was the book he
wrote Mrs. Cook about. Says it was her Through the Gates of Gold
published early in 1887, and gives an undated fragment from her to that
effect.
1930.--------. "Mark Time Theosophists! Still More Light on the Path."
Letter to the Editor, Religio-Philosophical Journal, July 20, 1889,
pp. 1, 8.
Explains his adherence to Theosophy. "As a scientist, I was bound
to see and judge for myself." Discloses the "human flotsam and jetsam"
and "cranks" he discovered. "The black-list is a long one, but it would
be incomplete without the name of one W.Q. Judge, of New York." Says
he has received Mahatma letters through Judge.
1931. [--------.] "Blavatsky Unveiled!" The Sun (New York), July 20,
1890, p. 17.
Covering the space of seven columns, Coues uses a "mass of
manuscripts and documents," mainly from Coleman, Hodgson, Bundy,
to implicate "Blavatsky & Co." "She was a Russian spy, made a mess of
it, and was promptly ignored." The Theosophical Society, started as a
cover for her activities, is depicted on one hand as "worth hundreds of
disciples and thousands of dollars," and on the other as being an
insignificant 175 members in America. Its objects, members, and
Theosophical literature, are thoroughly exposed as "BOSH." Coues’ 58
page typescript for his article survives among his papers at the State
Historical Society of Wisconsin.
1932. Cutright, Paul Russell, and Michael J. Brodhead. "Theosophy and
Spiritualism." Ch. 19 in Elliott Coues: naturalist and frontier
historian. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press, 1981, pp. 292-
308.
532 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Details Coues’ interest in psychical research—he was a member
of the London S.P.R.—his involvement with the Theosophists, and later
activities till his death in 1899.
1933. Farrington, Marie Lesquoy. A Mystic Society of Universal Row.
San Francisco: Dempster Brothers, 1890. 21 pp.
This Spiritualist author praises Coues unveiling of Blavatsky in the
July 20, 1890, N.Y. Sun, and says the law suit in progress in New York
will decide the issue. Mrs. Farrington was expelled from the San
Francisco Golden Gate Lodge, T.S., because of this pamphlet.
1934. Gomes, Michael. "The History of a Humbug: The Letters of H.P.
Blavatsky to Elliott Coues." The Canadian Theosophist, Sept.-Oct.
1984-Jan.-Feb. 1986.
An annotated transcription of eleven letters from Blavatsky to
Coues from 1886 to 1889 found among his papers at the State Historical
Society of Wisconsin. An epilogue published in the Jan.-Feb. 1986 issue
addresses the events after Coues unsuccessful bid for the Presidency of
the T.S. in America in 1889.
1935.--------. Witnessfor the Prosecution: Annie Besant’s Testimony on
behalf of H.P. Blavatsky in the New York Sun/Coues Law Case.
Fullerton, CA: Theosophical History, 1993. 60 pp.
The text of Annie Besant’s deposition given in New York May 4,
1891, for Blavatsky’s case against the Sun and Elliott Coues, with
background on Coues and Blavatsky’s libel suit.
1936. "The History of a Humbug." The Sun (New York), July 20, 1890,
p. 6.
Editorial to Coues "Blavatsky Unveiled" (item 1931) in that day’s
paper. "The old witch, according to Prof. Coues, was doing it all for no
533
other purpose than to kick up a dust to hide her political intrigue....It is
a wonderful story how this crafty Tartar entrapped this shrewd Yankee
[Olcott], so that for years they have played their game of humbugging
people into believing that they are prophets of a new religion founded on
Asiatic wisdom, of which they are both totally ignorant."
1937. Judge, William Quan, and Archibald Keightley. "Light on the
Path” and Mabel Collins. [New York, June 1889.] 8 pp.
Rebuttal by various Theosophists to Mabel Collins Cook’s
statement to Elliott Coues, reprinted, that Mme. Blavatsky had "begged
and implored" her to write him that Light on the Path was inspired by
one of the Mahatmas.
1938.--------, ed. Dr. Elliott Coues in his Letters. New York, June 14,
1889. 12 pp. Rept. New York, July 28, 1890. 16 pp.
Prints Coues’ letters to Mme. Blavatsky badgering her to have him
made head of the T.S. in America and her reply of April 30, 1889, along
with some of his letters to Judge.
1939.--------. "Libel by Dr. Coues and the N.Y. Sun." The Path 5:5
(August 1890): 153. Rept. in item 79.
Judge announces that he has brought suit against Coues and the
N.Y. Sun for libel, and is awaiting instructions from H.P.B. as to her
own course.
1940.--------. "Collapse of a Libel Suit Against H.P. Blavatsky." The
Path 5:5 (August 1890): 154.
A libel suit brought by Mabel Collins Cook against H.P.B. in
1889 was called before the court in July 1890, but H.P.B.’s lawyer
produced a letter from Mrs. Cook which caused her lawyer to ask that
the case be dropped.
534 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1941.--------. "The Libel Suits Against N.Y. Sun and Elliott Coues."
The Path 5:12 (March 1891): 389-90.
Newspapers in New York do not notice libel suits against other
papers, hence the silence about the case. The Sun had put in a demurrer,
but Justice Beach before whom it was argued has sustained Blavatsky’s
objection.
1942.------- . "Two Theosophical Events." The Path 7:8 (November
1892): 248-50. Rept. in item 79.
On the Sun's "retraction" in the Sept. 26, 1892 issue that the
allegations in Coues’ July 1890 article against the Theosophists "appear
to have been without solid foundation. ”The second "event" was that Col.
Olcott was to remain President of the T.S.
E. The Judge Case
1943. Besant, Annie, and William Quan Judge. To All Members of the
E.S.T London: Eastern School of Theosophy, May 27, 1891. 8
pp.
Announces the continuation of the School under their co-headship.
Gives as their credentials letters from Blavatsky.
1944. ------- . Eastern School of Theosophy. London: Eastern School of
Theosophy, Dec. 19, 1894. 4 pp.
Dated from Colombo, Ceylon, Dec. 19, 1894, this leaflet "For
E.S.T. Members Only" replies to Judge’s circular of Nov. 3 (item 1968)
deposing her as co-head of the School "by Master’s Direction." Besant
says members must choose between her and Judge. "No member can
belong to both schools."
Critical Issues 535
1945.--------, and Bertram Keightley. The Theosophical Society and the
Westminster Gazette. Madras: The Authors, Dec. 23, 1894. 16
pp.
Replies to the articles in the Westminster Gazette (1960) making
public the charges against Judge. An earlier version had been sent by
Besant to the Daily Chronicle from Colombo, Dec. 19, 1894.
1946.------- , and Bertram Keightley. Should Mr. Judge Resign?
Madras: The Authors, 1895. 15 pp.
Speeches by Besant and Keightley at the Dec. 25, 1894 T.S.
Convention at Adyar, putting forward the motion that Judge resign his
office as Vice-President. Includes a resolution moved by Tookaram
Tatya, Dec. 26, at the Indian Section Convention to that effect.
1947.--------. The Case Against W.Q. Judge. London: Published by
Annie Besant at the Offices of the Theosophical Publishing
Society, 1895. 88 pp.
Contains Besant’s "Statement" prepared for the July 1894 Judicial
Committee, along with a breakdown of the six main charges brought
against Judge and evidence by Olcott and 3. Keightley. Says if definite
action on Judge is not taken at the July European Convention, she and
G.R.S. Mead will put forth resolutions from the Australian, Indian and
European Sections asking Olcott as President to expel Judge from the
Society. A variation of this pamphlet exists as 80 pages.
1948. Buck, Jirah Dewey. Circular Letter. Cincinnati, Ohio, Feb. 1,
1895. 2 pp.
Criticizes Besant and praises Judge. Reveals that as late as July
1894 Besant had told him in London that she believed Judge to be in
communication with the Masters and had seen the Master come into
Judge’s body and speak to her.
536 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1949.--------. To the Members, Branches, and Sections of the
Theosophical Society. N.p., [1895]. 1 p.
Provides background on the American Section which was formed
in Buck’s home in Cincinnati in 1886 and Judge’s status. Urges members
of the American Section "to pass unanimously a vote of separation, and
declare their entire autonomy.”
1950. Conger, Arthur L., ed. "Letters from the Masters." The
Theosophical Forum (Covina, CA), Oct., Nov. 1947, Jan., Feb.,
Apr. 1948.
Facsimiles and text for nine letters in the script of M. and K.H.
received through Judge.
1951. Coryn, Herbert. A Pageant ofthe Fifth Act. A Study ofMrs, Annie
Besant. London, May 1895. 4 pp.
Compares Besant’s life to a pageant in five acts: Christian,
Bradlaughite, Fabian Socialist, Theosophist, and now Hindu. "Always she
has moved on from group to group, comraded in each, cooled, left it."
Complains about her referring to Theosophy as "a fragment Pre-Vaidic
Brahma-Vidya."
1952. Crump, Basil. "The Case Against W.Q. Judge." A Review.
London, May 5, 1895. 4 pp.
Criticizes Besant’s Case Against W.Q. Judge (1947) as legal
evidence. Says that "until the accused has been heard in reply the utmost
a prosecutor can do is to make out a primafacie case."
------- . "Concerning Books." The Path (Sydney), Jan.-Mar. 1938,
pp. 17-18.
1953.
537
Crump corrects some of the statements made in Ryan’s 1937 H.P.
Blavatsky (item 1138) on Mrs. Tingley. Gives the circumstances of his
and Mrs. Cleather’s association with her. Says that Judge’s circular By
Master’s Direction deposing Besant was felt by many at the time to have
precipitated the split that followed.
1954. Edge, Henry T., James M. Pryse, N. Southam, and Thomas
Green. To the members of the European Section, T.S. N.p.,
[1895]. 1 p.
A reply to G.R.S. Mead’s notice dated Dec. 31, 1894 (item 1983)
on a fracas about the Vahan.
1955. Endersby, Victor. [The Judge Case.] Theosophical Notes (Napa,
CA), Jan. 1954, Feb.-July 1958, Feb., May, Dec. 1959.
Intricate diagnosis of the Judge case advocating the position against
Annie Besant. The issue of Jan. 1954 contributes a point by point
historical development.
1956. A Fellow of the Theosophical Society. Fellow Theosophists. N.p.,
n.d. 3 pp.
States that in supporting Judge members will prove their "love and
gratitude to H.P.B."
1957. Fullerton, Alexander. ToMy Fellow-Members ofthe Theosophical
Society. [New York: The Author,] Jan. 16, 1895. 1 p.
Has received a Mahatma letter, and counter to all his convictions
he now support’s "Mr. Judge’s policy."
. A Narrative. New York, May 14, 1895. 4 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Fullerton’s experience with the Master’s "seal" and other
Mahatmic communications received through Judge, which led to his
suspicion of Judge. Annuls his circular of Jan. 16, and resigns from
Judge’s division of the E.S.T.
1959.--------. To Members ofthe Theosophical Society. New York, June
18, 1896. 3 pp.
Furnishes three incidents which he says opened his eyes to Judge’s
character. Sides with Besant.
1960. Garrett, Edmund. Isis Very Much Unveiled, Being the Story of the
Great Mahatma Hoax. London: Westminster Gazette Office,
1894. ii, 119 pp. 2nd ed. 132 pp. 3rd ed. 1895. 136 pp.
Published initially in the Westminster Gazette of Oct. 29,1894 and
nine succeeding issues, Garrett’s expose was based on documents
gathered for the 1894 London Judicial Enquiry into the charges against
Judge. The first edition included letters from various Theosophists in
response to Garrett’s series, and Judge’s By Master's Direction circular
of Nov. 1894. The second edition added Judge’s Nov. 26 reply to the
Westminster Gazette. The third edition omitted the letters from
Theosophists with Besant’s reply in the Jan. 15, 1895 Daily Chronicle.
* [Garrigues, John, ed.] Ch. 19-25 in The Theosophical Movement,
1925. Cited as item 93.
The major advocate of the case for Judge argued on ethical
grounds.
1961. Gillespie. Hugh R. "More Light on the ‘Judge Case.’" Letter to
the Editor, The Canadian Theosophist, May 15, 1932, pp. 67-68.
539
Reports that Countess Wachtmeister’s annotations in her copy of
Reply by William Q. Judge (item 1972), discovered in Sydney, questions
the veracity of Judge’s statements.
1962. Hargrove, Ernest Temple. "Letters from W.Q. Judge." The
Theosophical Quarterly, Apr., July, Oct. 1931, Jan., July 1932,
Jan., July 1933, Jan. 1935.
The story of the Judge case told through Judge’s letters to
Hargrove, spanning from Aug. 18, 1893 to Jan. 31, 1896. Hargrove had
joined the Theosophical Society in London in 1891 and met Judge at the
July 1892 European Section Convention. He lectured in America as a
supporter of Judge and was with him at the time of his death in 1896.
1963. Holt, Robert B. Circular letter. London, March 5, 1895. 1 p.
1964.--------. Circular letter. London, March 20, 1895. 2 pp.
Defends Besant’s honor, maintaining that she was sincere in
bringing charges against Judge.
1965. The Independent Theosophists of Boston. The Judgites. A
Theosophical Pope. Independent Theosophists Protest. N.p., 1895.
1 p.
An Open Letter to American Theosophists that appeared in the
Apr. 30, 1895 Boston Herald at the time of the split. Asks American
members to decide whether "they will pledge allegiance to this new
autocracy with its one-man power....Will American Theosophists bow to
this new theosophical pope."
1966. Jinarajadasa, C. "Besant-Chakravarti-Judge." Letter to the Editor,
The Canadian Theosophist, Dec. 15, 1946, pp. 305-8.
540 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
On Annie Besant’s position as legitimate head of Blavatsky’s
Esoteric School.
1967. Judge, William Quan. Charges Against William Q. Judge. New
York: William Q. Judge, March 15, 1894. 4 pp.
Responds to Olcott’s call in a letter of Feb. 7, 1894, for "an
official inquiry by means of a committee into the matter of your alleged
misuse of the Mahatmas’ names and handwritings." Judge insists that
such a Committee will be "a violation of the [T.S.] Constitution if it
decides the question of the existence of ‘Masters’ or Mahatmas."
1968.--------. By Master’
s Direction. New York: E.S.T., Nov. 3, 1894.
12 pp.
Declares Mrs. Besant’s co-headship of the E.S. at an end "under
Master’s direction" and himself sole head. Gives a brief history of the
E.S., and warns of a plot by Black Magicians against the T.S. and
E.S.T. working through certain Brahmans of India.
1969.--------. "Judge and the Masters." Letter to the Editor, New York
Sun, Dec. 3, 1894, p. 4.
Sends the Sun a copy of his letter of Nov. 26 to the Westminster
Gazette replying to charges against him. Admits that he has passed on
messages from the Masters to Besant and others. "I will not tell how or
by what means they were produced....All that makes no difference save
to the vulgar and the ignorant." Says he has not made money by such
messages.
1970.--------. Isis and the Mahatmas. London: The Publishers, 1895. 30
pp. 2nd ed. 1895. 32 pp. Rept. Edmonton, Canada: Edmonton
Theosophical Society, 1990. 30 pp.
541
Reprints item 1969 along with correspondence supporting Judge
and "A Final Word to those who demand Mr. Judge’s resignation pending
his detailed reply."
1971.--------. "A Letter from Mr. Judge, with a Reply." The Vahan
(London), March 1, 1895, pp. 1-2.
Judge writes Mead Jan. 25, 1895, that he refuses to resign the
Vice-Presidency as requested as it would be taken as an admission of
guilt. Protests that he has never received or inspected the evidence against
him.
1972.--------. Reply by William Q. Judge to Charges of Misuse of
Mahatmas' Names and Handwritings. N.p., 1895. 29 pp.
"Read at Boston, Mass., on the afternoon of April 20th, 1895,
after the T.S. Convention by Dr. A. Keightley on behalf of W.Q.
Judge." Lists six charges against him sent by Annie Besant on Mar. 24,
1894, replying point by point. Upholds the genuineness of the messages
he has delivered.
1973.--------. Issues in the T.S. Los Angeles: The Theosophy Company,
n.d. 49 pp.
Fourteen pieces by Judge from magazines and reports of the T.S.
for the 1890s relating to the "Judge case."
1974.--------. Two Replies by William Q. Judge. Los Angeles: The
Theosophy Company, [1992]. 53 pp.
A reprint of items 1969 and 1972.
1975. Keightley, Archibald. E.S.T. London: Privately printed by
members of the E.S.T., Jan. 12, 1895. 17 pp.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Calls on members of the Eastern School of Theosophy to stand by
Judge. Replies to Mrs. Besant and describes her relations with G.
Chakravarti.
1976.--------. Truth andOccultism. London, [1895].
Reprinted from the Irish Theosophist, March 1895. Contains
Besant’s correspondence to Buck.
1977.--------, E. Adams, C.H. Codings, and H.T. Edge. The Plot
Against the Theosophical Society. London: The Publishers, 1895.
89 pp.
Reprints letters supporting Judge from the Vahan, Irish
Theosophist and the Path, along with E.T. Hargrove’s "A Forgotten
Pledge" written under the pseudonym of Che-Yew-Tsang.
1978. Keightley, Bertram. A Common Sense View of Mr. Judge's
Circular of November 3rd, 1894. [London: The Author, Feb.
1895.] 8 pp. Rept. in The Prasnottara (Madras) 5 (May 1895):
39-49.
Questions Judge’s E.S. circular deposing Mrs. Besant as co-head
of the School. If valid, Keightley argues, the Master should have acted
directly, not through someone under suspicion for fabricating messages.
1979. Keightley, Julia C. What ProofHave We? N.p., [c. 1894]. 4 pp.
An Address to the Blavatsky Lodge, London, verbalizing the
philosophical rationale of Judge’s case. "The proof of a man is in his life.
The proof of an Ideal is its life in the soul."
1980.--------, Alice Cleather et al. A Protest. To Members of the
Theosophical Society in Europe. N.p., n.d. 1 p.
Critical Issues 543
A protest signed by 26 members against Mead’s notice of Dec. 31,
1894 (item 1983).
1981. Kell, Wayne. "Did the ‘Judge Case’ Begin While H.P.B. was
Alive?" The Eclectic Theosophist (San Diego), May-June 1989,
pp. 4-5.
Criticism of Judge or Blavatsky from the administrative
headquarters at Adyar is considered synonymous with the "Judge case"
by this writer.
1982. Mead, G.R.S., and Bertram Keightley. For the information of the
Members ofthe European and Indian Sections ofthe Theosophical
Society. London: [The Authors,] March 27, 1894. 4 pp.
Letter to Olcott from Mead and Keightley as General Secretaries
of the European and Indian Sections, T.S., commenting on his notice to
Judge for an official inquiry. Warns that this departs from the
Constitution of the Society.
1983.--------. "The General Secretary’s Notice and other Documents."
The Vahan (London), Feb. 1, 1895, pp. 1-9.
Mead’s Notice of Dec. 31st 1895 that H.T. Edge, Asst. Sec. of
the European Section, has made a copy of the register of members to be
used by Judge’s adherents in Europe, with replies by Edge, James Pryse,
Thomas Green, and J. Keightley’s "Protest." The rest of the issue
contains Resolutions on the Judge case from various Lodges, continued
from the Jan. 1, 1895 issue.
1984.--------. A Letter to the European Section. London: The Author,
Feb. 1, 1895. 6 pp.
"Previous to July 1894, I had the greatest possible confidence in
Mr. Judge." Communicates the reasons for his change of opinion.
544 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
1985.------- . "A Letter from Mr. Judge, with a Reply." The Vahan
(London), March 1, 1895, pp. 2-3.
Replies to Judge’s letter of Jan. 25, 1895, printed on pages 1-2 of
that issue. Disagrees that the resignation of the Vice-Presidency would be
taken as an admission of guilt. Indicates that Judge received a copy of
Mrs. Besant’s statement, 56 typed legal pages, to be presented to the July
1894 Judicial Committee but asked that his letters be handed back to him.
1986. Morant, Amy Constance. A Letter to Mrs. Annie Besant on the
recent crisis in the Theosophical Movement. London: [The
Author,] August 17, 1895. 4 pp.
Explains that the American Section had only voted for autonomy,
but Olcott in his June 5 Executive Notice had declared "that by so doing,
they had seceded." Says she will follow Judge as Pres, of the T.S. in
Europe. Brief reply by Besant Aug. 22, 1895.
1987. Olcott, Henry Steel. "Executive Notice, April 27, 1894, Adyar."
Supplement to The Theosophist, May 1894, p. xxvii. Also printed
as a one page letter.
Notification that the Judicial Committee will meet in London June
27, 1894.
1988.--------, G.R.S Mead, and Bertram Keightley. For the information
of the members of the European Section of the Theosophical
Society. London: European Section, Theosophical Society, June
15, 1894. 2 pp.
Replies to Mead and Keightley’s letter of Mar. 27, 1894 (item
1982). Says "the trial of the charges against Mr. Judge in no way affects
the neutral position of the Society."
545
1989.--------, Annie Besant and W.Q. Judge. The Neutrality of the
Theosophical Society. An Enquiry into Certain Charges Against
the Vice-President, held in London, July 1894. London: Published
by the General Council of the Theosophical Society, July 1894. 16
pp. Rept. Lucifer, August 1894, pp. 449-64; The Path, August
1894, pp. 158-68; Supplement to The Theosophist, September
1894, pp. xlii-liii. Rept. in item 200.
The Minutes of the Judicial Committee convened in London to
hear the charges against Judge, July 7th and 10th, along with statements
by Besant and Judge. The Committee met only to decide that the charges
did not relate to Judge’s official capacity as Vice-President and therefore
not subject to its jurisdiction. Further, any statement by them about the
Mahatmas would violate the neutrality, unsectarian nature and
Constitution of the Society.
1990.--------, A.P. Sinnett, Annie Besant, Bertram Keightley, W. Wynn
Westcott, E.T. Sturdy, and C.W. Leadbeater. Occultism and
Truth. [London, 1894.] 2 pp. Rept. in Lucifer, August 1894; The
Path, September 1894, pp. 184-85.
A warning against the tactic of the end justifying the means.
1991.------- , Executive Notice. Zumanaga, Spain: Theosophical Society,
June 5, 1895. 4 pp. Rept. in The Vahan (London) 4:12 (July 1,
1895): 1-3. Rept. in the Supplement to The Theosophist, August
1895, pp. xliii-iv.
Olcott’s response to "an official letter" from Judge, May 2, 1895,
notifying him of the autonomy of the American Section. Cancels the
Charter of the Section, all Branches that voted for autonomy, and
diplomas of all Fellows who accepted this.
--------. "The Judge Case" and "Mr. Judge Denounces Mrs.
Besant." Ch. 12-14, 19-21 in Old Diary Leaves. Fifth Series.
Cited as item 200.
546 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Supplies the Minutes of the London Judicial Committee of July
1894 (item 1989) with his commentary and the reaction of the Fourth
European Convention of 1894, plus excerpts from Judge’s circular
deposing Mrs. Besant as co-head of the E.S.T. and the speeches by
Olcott and Besant at the Annual Convention of 1894 at Adyar which deal
with the case.
1992. Old, Walter R., Sydney V. Edge, N.D. Khandalavala, and W.Q.
Judge. An Interesting Letter, Theosophic Free-Thought, and
Theosophy in the West. Madras: Thompson and Co., 1893. 19 pp.
Reprints Judge’s "Interesting Letter (written to an Indian Brother)"
from Lucifer April 1893, explaining messages from the Masters.
Contends that he is ignorant of the "Master’s seal." "My means of proof
and identification are within myself and everything else is trumpery." Old
and Edge’s critique "Theosophic Free-Thought" appeared in the July 1893
Theosophist along with Khandalavala’s "Theosophy in the West."
1993. Patterson, Henry T. To Members of the Theosophical Society.
Brooklyn, N.Y.: H.T. Patterson, Jan. 1, 1895. 8 pp.
A defense of Judge signed by Patterson and 120 American
members. An earlier unsigned version hat been sent out as a circular
letter in 1894. Supposedly inspired by Katherine Tingley according to her
letter to Patterson in the T.S. Archives Pasadena.
1994. Pryse, James Morgan. "Side-Lights on T.S. History." Letter to
the Editor, The Canadian Theosophist, June 15, 1932, pp. 124-26.
Relevant statement by Pryse on the Theosophical dilemmas of the
1890s. Defends Countess Wachtmeister’s veracity.
1995. Russell, George W. To Fellows of the Theosophical Society.
Dublin: [The Author,] March 26, 1894. 8 pp. Rept. as Appendix
Critical Issues 547
A in The Descent of the Gods, ed. by Raghavan and Nandini Iyer.
Gerrards Cross: Collin Smythe, 1988, pp. 659-64.
Replying to Besant’s charge that Judge wrote the letters from the
Masters, Russell queries "Who can say what was behind the hand that
wrote, the will of the Adept or the will of Mr. Judge?" Calls the motion
by the Indian Section for Judge’s explanation or expulsion "a violation of
the principles of freedom in our ranks, and I call upon all true men and
women to rise up and protest against it."
1996. Spinks, F. Pierce. "History." Ch. 2 in Theosophists: Reunite!
Boston: Christopher Publishing House, 1958, pp. 31-105.
Assessment of the Judge case as a contributory factor to the
present divisiveness of the Theosophical movement. The author, a
member of the group that followed Judge in America, suggests that Judge
relayed psychically received messages in good faith, but questions the
source based on subsequent results: the "split" in the Society.
1997. Urban, Vonda. "Reflective Retrospect. A New Look at the Judge
Case." Theosophical History 3:1 (January 1989): 4-12, 14.
"Lurking beneath the somber shadows of the Judge crisis can be
seen the same menacing specter scheming to destroy Theosophy that
prevailed at Adyar during the ‘Coulomb conspiracy.’ Only this time it
was spawned from within the Allahabad T.S., among whose members of
Indian Brahmanas were some who were unwilling to relinquish their
exclusive hold on esoteric knowledge."
1998. Wachtmeister, Count Axel. "W.Q. Judge Asked to Go. The
Theosophical Convention at Madras Rules Against Him." The Sun
(New York), Feb. 7, 1895, p. 6.
News of the 19th Annual T.S. Convention held at Madras reported
by Count Wachtmeister. Annie Besant’s resolution that "the President call
on Mr. Judge to resign his office of Vice-President until he had cleared
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
himself from the charges,” was passed unanimously, with the amendment
that failing to do so Judge should be expelled.
1999. Wachtmeister, Countess Constance. H.P.B. and the Present Crisis
in the Theosophical Society. [London: The Author, 1895.] 12 pp.
Rept. in Theosophical History 3:2 (April 1989): 51-61.
The Countess tells of her life with H.P.B. and their conversations
about Besant and Judge. Believes Judge’s deposing Besant from the E.S.
(item 1968) "has mainly been prompted by personal ambition and desire
to get the whole Theosophical Society into his own hands; and in order
to do this he must get rid of Annie Besant; and so in his pamphlet he not
only makes her out to be an irresponsible being, a victim of ‘Black
Magicians,’ but also accuses her of actually practicing the black art on
himself and two other persons, one of whom suffered in health thereby."
Brief excerpts were printed in the Theosophic Messenger, March 1905,
pp. 120-21, and The Messenger, May 1915, pp. 467-68.
2000.--------, and Alexander Fullerton. The Theosophical Society and
the Secession Therefrom. [New York: The Authors,] January
1897. 4 pp.
Outlines the genesis of the Judge case from 1893 to the 1895 split.
According to the authors the 1895 declaration of the American Section of
the Society as an autonomous body was "simply to put beyond reach of
expulsion a person charged with the grave offenses described, and who
refused to submit to an investigation of their truth," as the Dec. 1894
Annual Convention at Adyar had passed the resolution of the Indian
Section that Judge submit to an investigation of the charges raised against
him or be forced to resign from the Theosophical Society.
2001. Zirkoff, Boris de. "Katherine Tingley and the Breach of 1895."
Eirenicon (Hyde, Eng.) no. 137, 1960, p. 8.
Advocates the date of the initial meeting of Katherine Tingley and
Judge as late fall 1894, so she could not have been responsible for his
Critical Issues 549
Nov. 3rd Circular deposing Besant. But Judge mentions Tingley by name
in a letter of Oct. 1, 1894 (see The Theosophical Forum, Oct. 15, 1935,
p. 26), and E.A. Neresheimer notes that he met her at Judge’s
introduction after the September 1893 World Parliament of Religions.
CHAPTER 9
Theosophical Periodicals
As noted in Chapter 6, Theosophical periodicals provided a major
source of the early literature of the movement. Founded by prominent
Theosophists and often filled, anonymously or under a number of
pseudonyms, by their editors, such publications had an added dimension.
Writing of the magazine edited by Mme. Blavatsky from India, one early
member could still recall decades later "the eagerness with which we used
to await the arrival of what we regarded as a monthly message from our
venerated Leader and from the mysterious Powers Who inspired and
taught her. I remember the thrill of expectation with which we opened it,
the indefinable odour of the mysterious East which it seemed to bring
with it, and the quaint fact that even after that long sea journey the heavy
black ink still came off upon one’s fingers as one held it!" (C.W.
Leadbeater in The Australian Theosophist, July 15, 1926, p. 6).
The first Theosophical journal was the appropriately titled The
Theosophist edited by H.P. Blavatsky at Bombay from 1879 to 1882 and
then at Madras from 1883 to 1885. In the premier issue of October 1879
the editor outlined its field of activity. "It is designed that our journal
shall be read with as much interest by those who are not deep
philosophers as by those who are. Some will delight to follow the pandits
through the mazes of metaphysical subtleties and the translation of ancient
manuscripts, others to be instructed through the medium of legends and
tales of mystical import. Our pages will be like the many viands of a
feast where each appetite may be satisfied and none are sent away
hungry. The practical wants of life are to many readers more urgent than
the spiritual, and that it is not our purpose to neglect them our pages will
551
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
amply show.” Articles defined Theosophy, criticized the drift of Western
Spiritualism, and delineated the antiquity of Vedic literature. Edwin
Arnold’s recently published life of the Buddha, The Light of Asia, was
reviewed at length, and the autobiography of Swami Dayananda Saraswati
was serialized. Succeeding issues presented "The Nature and Office of the
Buddha" by the Ven. H. Sumangala, Head of the Vidyodaya College in
Ceylon, articles on yoga, vedanta, and sacred places in India by Indian
scholars. The Indian character of The Theosophist continued throughout
the 1890s with the appearance of translations from various Indian
scriptures, notable among them the minor Upanishads done into English
by members of the Kumbakonam Theosophical Society.
Blavatsky’s removal to England saw her second editorial attempt
with the publication ofLucifer in Sept. 1887. In choosing such a startling
title, which she said stood for Venus as the morning star, she felt that
"No fitter symbol for the proposed work—that of throwing a ray of truth
on everything hidden by the darkness of prejudice, by social or religious
misconceptions." In defending the wide variety found in its pages, from
Theosophy to fiction to criticism, she noted in an editorial in Feb. 1888,
"A Theosophical magazine is thus, perhaps, the only publication where
one may hope to find, at any rate, the unbiassed, if still only approximate
truth and fact. Naked truth is reflected in Lucifer under its many aspects,
for no philosophical or religious views are excluded from its pages."
This all inclusive spirit of inquiry may have been fuelled by the fact
that most Theosophical magazines needed a wider audience of subscribers
for survival. As the movement grew, periodicals limited solely to
chronicling Theosophical concerns—lectures, branches, literature—began
to appear. The Theosophist contained a monthly supplement, titled the
Journal of the Theosophical Society during 1884, devoted to the work of
the branches of the Society. The Theosophical Forum of New York and
The Vahan of London answered Theosophical queries. The monthly
Branch Work Papers printed Theosophical lectures.
Besides journals that expounded Theosophy there were transactions
and reports not included here. The London Lodge had been issuing their
lectures as Transactions since 1884, and these are given separately under
the name of the person in chapters 6 and 7. The Scottish Lodge in
Edinburgh published 35 short pieces as their transactions from 1891 to
1899. The two installments of Transactions of the Blavatsky Lodge (638)
were really reports of Blavatsky’s answers to questions on the first four
stanzas of The Secret Doctrine. Another publication venture that was
553
more pamphlet than periodical was the fortnightly Theosophical Siftings,
which issued 126 numbers between 1888 and 1895; those issues
comprising the work of a sole individual are cited in Chapter 7. Yearly
Reports of Proceedings of the annual convention had been published by
the Theosophical Society at Adyar since 1883, by the American Section
since 1888 and later as the Theosophical Society in America from 1895,
and by the Theosophical Society in Europe from 1891.
There were also periodicals published by Theosophists where the
content cannot be classified as Theosophical. Lady Caithness edited and
published VAurore, ”An Organ of Christian Esotericism," from Paris
between 1886 and 1895. The Buddhist of Colombo, Ceylon, started by
C.W. Leadbeater in 1886, sometimes carried reports of Theosophical
activities, but on the whole was filled with essays about Southern
Buddhism. Rays of Light published in Colombo from 1896 to 1898 by
another veteran Theosophist, Mrs. Museaus Higgins, was concerned with
anti-vivisection.
While the scope of this bibliography has been focused on works in
English, I have tried in this chapter to provide a comprehensive list of
non-English Theosophical periodicals. In this I was greatly aided by Mrs.
Barbro Melander of Sweden, former chair of the European Federation of
the Theosophical Society, who sent out letters to the General Secretaries
of the various European Sections of the T.S. asking for information about
their local 19th century journals. Response indicates that much early
Theosophical material was lost during the War. An attempt to preserve
early Theosophical literature has been carried on recently by members of
the Edmonton Theosophical Society (Box 4587, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada T6E 5G4) who have issued facsimile reprints of The Irish
Theosophist, The Lamp (an early Canadian Theosophical journal), The
Path, The Prasnottara, The Theosophical Forum, The Theosophic Isis,
and the first five volumes of The Theosophist. A facsimile edition of the
first two volumes of The Theosophist has also been printed in the U.S.A.
Publications in this chapter that continued into the 20th century are
indicated by a 4- at the end of the entry.
554 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
2002. Antahkarana, Barcelona, Spain. Vol. 1:1-12, 1894. 2:13-24,
1895. 3:25-30. 1896.
Spanish, monthly.
2003. Atma*s Messenger, New Haven, Conn. Vol. 1:1, April; 2, May;
3, June, 1895.
Monthly, 16 pp. Editor: Melville S. Wadham. Published by the
Atma Branch T.S. "Devoted to the interests of Fraternity in General and
to Theosophy as the highest exponent thereof."
2004. The Austral Theosophist, Melbourne, Australia. Vol. 1:1-12, Jan.-
Dee. 1894. 2:13-14, Jan., Feb. 1895.
Monthly, 16 pp. "A Magazine devoted to the Diffusion of
knowledge on the Esoteric Philosophy and kindred subjects."
* The Australian Theosophist. See Magic
2005. Balder, Kristiania (Oslo), Norway. Vol. 1:1-9, Sept. 1897-1898.
2: 1898. 3: 1899 +
Monthly. Published by the Norwegian Theosophical Society till
1901. Editor: Richard Ericksen.
2006. Branch WorkPapers, Adyar, Madras. Nos. 1-12, Jan.-Dee. 1891.
13-24, Jan.-Dee. 1892. 25, Jan. 1893.
Monthly, 16 pp. Issued from the General Secretary’s Office,
Adyar, Madras. Free to all Branches of the Indian Section.
555
2007. Bulletin de ITsis, Paris, France. No. 1, June 1888. 2, August
1888.
French, monthly. No. 1, 38 pp. No. 2, 32 pp. Published by
Branch Frangaise de la Society Theosophique. Conducted by Dr.
Encausse.
2008. Child-Life, Brooklyn, N.Y. Vol. 1:1-6, Dec. 1896-May 1897.
2:1-6, June-Nov. 1897.
Monthly. Editor: Elizabeth Mast Hyatt. "A Theosophic Magazine
Published every month in the Interest of all Children.” This little
monthly of roughly 20 pages an issue that sold for 10 cents a copy aimed
"to lead children to a full expression of their possibilities."
2009. The Crusader, London. Vol. 1:1-12, 1898. 2:1-12, 1898. 3:1-12,
1898-1899. 4:1-12, 1899.
Fortnightly. "Devoted to the cause of Universal Brotherhood."
Vol. 1-4, no. 9, edited by Basil Crump. Vol. 4, nos. 10-12, edited by
Sidney G.P. Coryn. Published initially as a supplement to Ourselves, East
London, "specially to further the work of the Theosophical Crusade under
the leadership of Katherine Tingley," this eight page fortnightly which
sold for one penny went on to run till Dec. 27, 1899.
2010. Department of Branch Work Papers, New York. Nos. 1/2-9/10,
June-Dee. 1890. 11-22, Jan.-Dee. 1891. 23-29, Jan.-Dee. 1892.
30-38, Jan.-Dee. 1893. 39-46, Feb.-Nov. 1894.
Monthly, 6 to 15 pp. Editor: Alexander Fullerton. Free to all
Branches of the American Section.*
* The English Theosophist. See The Northern Theosophist
556 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
2011. Estudios Teosoficos, Barcelona, Spain. Vol. 1:? 2:1-12, 1891-92.
3:1-3.
Spanish, monthly.
2012. The Grail, London. Vol. 1:1-3, Mar.-May, 1897. 4, June-July, 5,
Aug.-Sept. 1897.
Monthly, 20 pp. Nos. 1-3 edited by Herbert Coryn; 4-5 edited by
Herbert Coryn and Basil Crump. "A Monthly Magazine devoted to the
furtherance of work of the Theosophical Society in the cause of Universal
Brotherhood, the work whose lines were laid down by H.P. Blavatsky."
2013. Hestia, Wellington, New Zealand. Vol. 1:1-4, June-Sept. 1888.
Monthly, 12 pp. Editor: E.T. Sturdy. "A magazine devoted to the
Teachings of Ancient Sages and the study of Philosophy and Science."
2014. ITdee Iheosophique, Brussels, Belgium. Feb. 1898.
* The Internationalist. See The Irish Theosophist
* The International Theosophist. See The Irish Theosophist
2015. The Irish Theosophist, Dublin. Vol. 1:1-12, Oct. 15, 1892-Sept.
15, 1893. 2:1-12, Oct. 15, 1893-Sept. 15, 1894. 3:1-12, Oct. 15,
1894-Sept. 15, 1895. 4:1-12, Oct. 15, 1895-Sept. 15, 1896. 5:1-
12, Oct. 15, 1896-Sept. 15, 1897. Changed to The Internationalist
Vol. 1:1-6, Oct. 15, 1897-Mar. 15, 1898. Changed to The
International Theosophist, Vol. 1:1-12, Apr. 15, 1898-Mar. 15,
1899. 2:1-9, Apr. 13, 1899-Dec. 13, 1899 +
557
Monthly. Edited by D.N. Dunlop. "A monthly magazine devoted
to Universal Brotherhood, Eastern Literature and Occult Science."
Starting as an eight page journal The Irish Theosophist grew to 20 pages
by 1895 with color illustrations by AE (George Russell). Vol. 3, 1-4,
were printed on the H.P.B. Press London; after this was closed, the
printers moved to Dublin to form the Irish Theosophist Press. The
magazine was changed to The Internationalist, "A Monthly Magazine
Devoted to the Furtherance of Universal Brotherhood," in 1897, forming
an "amalgamation and continuation of The Irish Theosophist and The
Grail," and was edited by H.A. Coryn and G.W. Russell. In April 1898
the title was again changed to The International Theosophist, edited by
Alice L. Cleather and F.J. Dick, and solely by Dick from April 1899. It
continued on until 1904.
2016. Ithuriel, Birmingham, England. Vol. 1:1, Nov. 19, 1893.
Four pages. Edited by T. Rudolph Richards. "A Periodical
Devoted to Theosophy, Occult Science, and Universal Brotherhood."
2017. The Lamp, Toronto, Canada. Vol. 1:1-12, Aug. 1894-July 1895.
2:13-24, Aug. 1895-July 1896. 3:25-30, Aug. 1896-Jan. 1897; 31-
34, Sept.-Dee. 1899 +
Monthly, 16 pp. Edited by A.E.S. Smythe. D.N. Dunlop named
"Associate Editor, London, England" from No. 33. Continued until Sept.
1900.
2018. Le Lotus, Paris, France. Vol. 1: Mar.-Sept. 1887. 2: Oct. 1887-
Mar. 1888. 3: Apr. 1888-Mar. 1889.
Monthly, 64 pp. Directeur-Gerant: Felix-Krishna Gaboriau;
Editeur: Georges Carre. "Revue des Hautes Etudes Theosophiques.
Tendant a favoriser le rapprochement entre l’Orient et l’Occident sous
Finspiration de H.P. Blavatsky."
558 Theosophy inthe Nineteenth Century
2019. Le Lotus Bleu, Paris, France. Vol. 1: Mar. 1890-Feb. 1891. 2:
Mar. 1891-Feb. 1892. 3: Mar. 1892-Feb. 1893. 4: Mar. 1893-
Feb. 1894. 5: Mar. 1894-Feb. 1895. 6: Mar. 1895-Feb. 1896. 7:
Mar. 1896-Feb. 1897. 8: Mar. 1897-Feb. 1898. 9: Mar. 1898-
Feb. 1899. 10: Mar.-Dec. 1899. In progress.
French, monthly. Redacteur en chef: H.P. Blavatsky. Directeur-
Gerant: Arthur Amould till Nov. 1895, Th. Pascal to Feb. 1898, D.A.
Courmes from Mar. 1898.
2020. Lotusbliiten, Leipzig, Germany. Nos. 1-15, 1893. 16-27, 1894.
28-39, 1895. 40-51, 1896. 52-63, 1897. 64-75, 1898. 76-87, 1899
+
German, monthly. Edited by Franz Hartmann.
2021. Lotusknoppen, Arnhem, Holland. Nos. 1-12, 1898-1899.
Dutch, irregular. Editor: ArieGoud. Published by the W.Q. Judge
Lodge of Theosophisch Genootschap in the Netherlands. On Dec. 27,
1900 Lotusknoppen was replaced by De Nieuwe Eeuw.
2022. Lucifer, London. Vol. 1:1-6, Sept. 15, 1887-Mar. 15, 1888. 2:7-
12, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1888. 3:13-18, Sept. 15, 1888-Feb. 15,
1889. 4:19-24, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1889. 5:25-30, Sept. 15, 1889-
Feb. 15, 1890. 6:31-36, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1890. 7:37-42, Sept.
15, 1890-Feb. 15, 1891. 8:43-48, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1891. 9:49-
54, Sept. 15, 1891-Feb. 15, 1892. 10:55-60, Mar. 15-Aug. 15,
1892. 11:61-66, Sept. 15, 1892-Feb. 15, 1893. 12:67-72, Mar.
15-Aug. 15. 1893. 13:73-78, Sept. 15, 1893-Feb. 15, 1894.
14:79-84, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1894. 15:85-90, Sept. 15, 1894-Feb.
15,1895. 16:91-96, Mar. 15-Aug. 15,1895. 17:97-102, Sept. 15,
1895-Feb. 15, 1896. 18:103-108, Mar. 15-Aug. 15, 1896.
19:109-114, Sept. 15, 1896-Feb. 15, 1897. 20:115-120, Mar. 15-
Aug. 15,1897. Changed to Theosophical Review, Vol. 21:121-26,
Sept. 15, 1897-Feb. 15, 1898. 22:127-32, Mar. 15-Aug. 15,
559
1898. 23:133-38, Sept. 15, 1898-Feb. 15, 1899. 24:139-44, Mar.
15-Aug. 15, 1899. 25:145-48, Sept. 15-Dec. 15, 1899 +
Monthly. Issues ran 70 to 84 pp. Founded and edited by H.P.
Blavatsky and Mabel Collins Cook till Oct. 1888. Edited solely by
H.P.B. till Sept. 1889 when Annie Besant became co-editor till June
1891. Solely by Annie Besant till Sept. 1895 when G.R.S. became co­
editor. "A Theosophical Monthly designed to bring light ‘to the hidden
things of darkness.’"
2023. Magic, Sydney, Australia. Vol. 1:1-12, Oct. 16, 1896-Oct. 26,
1897. 2:1-4, Nov. 26, 1897-Feb. 26, 1898.
Monthly. Editor: T.W. Willans. "Devoted to Universal
Brotherhood, Theosophy, and Archaic Science." Title changed with Vol.
1, no. 4 to The Australian Theosophist.
2024. Mercury, San Francisco. Vol. 1:1-11/12, July 1894-May/June
1895. 2:1-12, Aug. 1895-June/July 1896. 3:1-12, Aug. 1896-Aug.
1897. 4:1-12, Sept. 1897-Aug. 1898. 5:1-12, Sept. 1898-Aug.
1899. Changed to The Theosophic Messenger Vol. 1:1-3, Oct.-
Dec. 1899 +
Monthly, 12 pp. to 24 pp. by Vol. 2. Editor: William John
Walters, with Edith and Marie A. Walsh, Vol. 2 on. From its beginning
as "A Theosophical Journal for Children and Young People," thejournal
became the official organ of the American Section, T.S., with Vol. 3,
"Devoted to the Study of Theosophy, Oriental Philosophy, the Occult
Sciences and the Brotherhood of Man." When the title changed to The
Theosophic Messenger at the end of 1899, it was described as "A
Monthly Magazine for the Interchange of Theosophical Opinions and
News" edited solely by Walters.
2025. The New Californian, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Vol. 1:1-
12, June 1891-June 1892. 2:1-12, July 1892-June 1893, 3:1-12,
July 1893-June 1894.
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Monthly, 32 pp. Vol. 1 edited by Jerome Anderson from San
Francisco; Vol. 2 on by Louise A. Off from Los Angeles. Miss Off died
Jan. 6, 1895 of consumption.
2026. The New Century, New York. Vol. 1:1-50, Sept. 30, 1897-Oct.
1, 1898. 2:1-55, Oct. 8, 1898-Nov. 11, 1899.
Weekly. Editor: Katherine A. Tingley. "To promote the broadest
teachings of Universal Brotherhood."
2027. New England Notes, Boston. Vol. 1:1-11/13, Jan.-Oct./Dec.
1895. 2:1-2, Jan.-April, 1896.
Monthly, 4 pp. "A Monthly Record of Theosophical Activities."
2028. The Northern Theosophist, Middlesbrough, England. Vol. 1:1-12,
Dec. 1893-Nov. 1894. 2:13-20, Dec. 1894-July 1895. Changed to
The English Theosophist, Eaglescliffe and London. Nos. 1-9:
Sept. 1895-May 1896. New series, Vol. 2:1-12, Mar. 1898-Feb.
1899. 3:1-9, Apr.-Dec. 1899 +
Monthly, 8 pp. Editor: W.A. Bulmer. Bulmer sent out a notice
Aug. 1, 1895, stating that owing to different views taken by the
Proprietors in reference to events relating to the formation of the T.S. in
Europe, it was found impossible to continue The Northern Theosophist.
A new publication, The English Theosophist, would be issued by him.
From Vol. 3, no. 1 it was edited by Howard H. Birt from London.
\ 2029. The Occult Word, Rochester, N.Y. Vol. 1:1, April 1884; 2/3,
May-June; 4/6, Oct.-Nov. 1884; 6/7, April-May, 1885; 8/9,
Nov.-Dee. 1885; 10/11, Jan.-Feb. 1886; 12, April 1886. 2:1,
May 1886; 2/3, July; 4/5, Aug.-Sept.; 6/7, Oct.-Nov. 1886; 8,
Jan. 1887; 9/10, 1887; 11/12, April/May 1887. 3:1/2, 1887; 3/4,
1887; 5/6, 1887; 7/8, 1888; 9/10, 1888.
561
Monthly. Editor: Mrs. Josephine Cables.
2030. OrientalDepartment, New York. Nos. 1-12, Jan. 1891-May/June
1892. 13-14, June, Nov. 1893. 16-20, Mar.-Nov. 1894. 21-26,
Jan.-Nov./Dec. 1895. 1-6, Jan./Feb.-Nov./Dec. 1896. 7-8.
Jan./Feb.-Mar/Apr. 1897.
Irregular, bi-monthly from 1895. Editor: W.Q. Judge. Free to all
members of the American Section.
2031. Oriental Department Papers, London. England. Nos. 1-4, Nov.
1891-1892. New Series, Vol. 1:1-7, 1893-94.
Irregular, 12 pp., from 1893, 32 pp. Editor: G.R.S. Mead. Free
to all members of the European Section. The initial series was a reprint
of the American Section’s Oriental Department for 1891/92.
2032. Ourselves, Bow, East London. Vol. 1:1, Apr. 6, 1895; 2, May 4;
3, Aug. 1895. 6, Apr., 1896; 7, May; 8, Aug. 1896. 2:10, Oct.
1897.
Monthly, 12 pp. Editor: C.H. Collings. "A Monthly Magazine
devoted to bring Theosophy—the People’s Heritage—to thinking Men and
Women of East London." Issued on the first Saturday of every month;
later amalgamated with The Crusader.
2033. The Pacific Theosophist, Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco.
Vol. 1:1-12, Nov. 1891-Oct. 1892. 2:1, Dec. 1892. 4:1-12, Aug.
1893-July 1894. 5:1-12, Aug. 1894-July 1895. 6:1-12, Aug. 1895-
Mar. 1897. 7:1-12, Apr. 1897-Apr. 1898. 8:1, May 1898.
Monthly, 16 pp. Editor: Jerome A. Anderson from San Francisco
with Vol. 4. "A Theosophic Journal Devoted to Practical Realization of
Universal Brotherhood."
562 Theosophy inthe Nineteenth Century
2034. The Path, New York. Vol. 1:1-12, Apr. 1886-Mar. 1887. 2:1-12,
Apr. 1887-Mar. 1888. 3:1-12, Apr. 1888-Mar. 1889. 4:1-12,
Apr. 1889-Mar. 1890. 5:1-12, Apr. 1890-Mar. 1891. 6:1-12,
Apr. 1891-Mar. 1892. 7:1-12, Apr. 1892-Mar. 1893. 8:1-12,
Apr. 1893-Mar. 1894. 9:1-12, Apr. 1894-Mar. 1895. 10:1-12,
Apr. 1895-Mar. 1896. Changed to Theosophy, Vol. 11:1-12, Apr.
1896-Mar. 1897. 12:1-7, Apr.-Oct. 1897. Changed to Universal
Brotherhood, Vol. 12:8-12, Nov. 1897-Mar. 1898. 13:1-12, Apr.
1898-Mar. 1899. 14:1-9, Apr.-Dec. 1899 +
Monthly. Founded and edited by William Q. Judge till 1896;
edited by E.T. Hargrove, 1896/97; edited by Katherine Tingley and E.A.
Neresheimer, 1898 onwards. "A Magazine devoted to the Theosophical
Movement, the Brotherhood of Humanity, the Study of Occult Science
and Philosophy and Aryan Literature."
2035. Pauses, Bombay, India. Vol. 1:1-12, Sept. 1891-Aug. 1892. 2:1-
12, Sept. 1892-Aug. 1893. Changed to The Theosophic Gleaner
Vol. 3:1-12, Sept. 1893-Aug. 1894. 4:1-12, Sept. 1894-Aug.
1895. 5:1-12, Sept. 1895-Aug. 1896. 6:1-12, Sept. 1896-Aug.
1897. 7:1-12, Sept. 1897-Aug. 1898. 8:1-12, Sept. 1898-Aug.
1899. 9:1-4, Sept.-Dec. 1899 +
Monthly, 28 pp. Published by the Blavatsky Lodge, T.S.,
Bombay. "A Popular Journal of Theosophy. ” Continued till 1907.
2036. Philadelphia, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Vol. 1:1-12, 1898-99.
Vol.2: 1899.
Spanish, monthly.
2037. The Prasnottara, Adyar, Madras, India. Vol. 1:1-12, Jan.-Dee.
1891.2:13-24, Jan.-Dee. 1892.3:25-36, Jan.-Dee. 1893. 4:37-48,
Jan.-Dee. 1894. 5:49-59, Jan.-Dee. 1895. 6:60-71, Jan.-Dec.
1896. 7:72-83, Jan.-Dee. 1897. 8:84-95, Jan.-Dee. 1898. 9:96-
107, Jan.-Dee. 1899 +
563
Monthly, 16 pp. Edited by Bertram Keightley. "Being Questions
and Answers on Topics of Interest to Theosophists," issued free by the
Indian Section.
2038. La Revue Theosophique, Paris, France. Vol. 1: Mar.-Aug. 1889.
2: Sept. 1889-Feb. 1890.
Monthly, 48 pp. Redacteur en chef: H.P. Blavatsky. Directrice:
Comtesse G. d’Adhemar. Gerant: Georges Polti.
2039. The Search Light, New York. Vol. 1:1, Apr. 1898; 2, May 1898;
3, Oct. 1898 +
Published by the Defence Committee, Clark Thurston, Chairman.
40 to 35 pp. each. A nine page pamphlet was also issued Dec. 13, 1898,
marked "Special Private."
2040. Sophia, Barcelona and Madrid, Spain. Vol. 1-2: 1-12, May 1893-
1894. 3-4: 1-12, 1895-96. 5-6: 1-12, 1897-98. 7: 1899 +
Spanish, monthly.
2041. Sphinx, Leipzig, Germany. Nos. 1-22, 1886-1896.
German, monthly. Founded and edited by W. Hiibbe-Schleiden,
1886-Aug. 1895. Edited by H. Goring, Sept. 1895-June 1896. Organ of
the Theosophische Vereinigung, 1893-July 1894, of the Theosophische
Vereinigung and Deutsche Theosophische Gesellschaft, Aug. 1894-Aug.
1895.
2042. Teosofisk Tidskrift, Stockholm, Sweden. Vol. 1: Jan. 1891-Dec.
1892. 2: Jan. 1893-Dec. 1894. 3: Jan. 1895-Dec. 1896. 4: Jan.
1897-Dec. 1898. 5: Jan. 1899 +
564 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Monthly, 32 pp. The organ of the Scandinavian Theosophical
Society, which included Norway, Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Editor:
Baron Victor Pfeiff.
2043. Theosofia, Rome, Italy. Vol. 1: 1898. 2: 1899 +
2044. Theosophia, Amsterdam, Holland. Vol. 1-3: 1-36, 1892-95. 4-5:
37-48, 1-12, 1895-97. 6-7: 1-12, 1-12, 1897-99. 8: 85-95, 1899
+
Dutch, monthly.
2045. Theosophia, Stockholm, Sweden. Vol. 1: Jan.-Dee. 1897. 2: Jan.-
Dee. 1898. 3: Jan.-Dee. 1899.
Swedish, monthly, 16 pp. Editor: Gustav Zander. Organ of the
newly formed Swedish T.S., later affiliated with Katherine Tingley’s
Universal Brotherhood.
2046. The Theosophic Isis, London, England. Vol. 1:1-12, Jan.-Dee.
1896. 2:1-2, Jan.-Feb. 1897.
Monthly, 24 pp. Editor: Herbert A.W. Coryn. "A Monthly
Magazine devoted to Universal Brotherhood, Theosophy and the Occult
Sciences."
* The Theosophic Messenger. See Mercury
2047. The Theosophic Thinker, Bellary and Madras. Vol. 1:1-45, Feb.
25-Dec. 27, 1893. 2:1-52: Jan. 6-Dec. 29, 1894. 3:1-51, Jan. 5-
Dec. 21, 1895. 4:1-50, Jan. 4-Dec. 12, 1896. 5:1-38, Jan. 2-Sept.
18, 1897.
Theosophical Periodicals 565
Weekly. Published by T.A. Swaminatha Aiyar. Moved to Madras
with the July 6, 1895 issue.
2048. The Theosophical Forum, New York. Nos. 1-18, April 1889-Dec.
1890. 19-36, Jan. 1891-June 1892. 37-53, July 1892-Nov. 1893.
54-70, Dec. 1893-Apr. 1895. New Series, Vol. 1:1-12, May
1895-Apr. 1896. 2:1-12, May 1896-Apr. 1897. 3:1-4, May-Aug.
1897, 5-7, Feb.-Apr. 1898. 4:1-12, May 1898-Apr. 1899. 5:1-8,
May-Dec. 1899 +
Monthly, 10 to 12 pp. Edited by Alexander Fullerton till 1895,
E.T. Hargrove from April 1896. The first 70 numbers contained answers
to 333 questions on various philosophical subjects. The 1895 New Series,
"Issued by Direction and under the Authority of The Theosophical
Society in America, William Q. Judge, President," contained subjects for
discussion, plus Theosophical News and Notices, and ran 15 pages. The
August 1897 issue notified readers that the Forum was to be discontinued
due to the increase of the rapid circulation of Theosophy (the successor
to The Path) and the "Questions and Answers" would be incorporated
into that magazine. In Feb. 1898 the Forum appeared again as a 20 page
journal. This might be called the Newer Series, as it was issued by
dissidents who broke away or refused to recognize Katherine Tingley’s
reorganization of the Theosophical Society. It continued until 1905.
2049. Theosophical News, Boston. Vol. 1:1-28, June 22-Dec. 28, 1896;
29-52, Jan. 4-June 14, 1897. 2:1-14, June 21-Sept. 20, 1897.
Weekly, 4 pp. "A Weekly Report of Activities."
2050. The Theosophical Ray, Boston. Vol. 1:1-3, Oct.-Dec. 1892; 4-10,
Jan.-July 1893.
Monthly, 14 pp. Editor: W.W. Harmon. Issued monthly by the
Boston Theosophical Publishing Co. "Designed to Give Simple Statements
Concerning the Divine Truths of Theosophy."
566 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
2051. Theosophischer Wegweiser, Leipzig, Germany, Vol. 1: Oct. 1898-
Oct. 1899. Vol. 2: Oct 1899 +
German, monthly. Editor: Arthur Weber. "Organ der
(allgemeinen, freien, intemationalen) Theosophischen Gesellschaft."
Continued until Sept. 1900.
2052. The Theosophist, Bombay and Adyar, Madras, India. Vol. 1:1-12,
Oct. 1879-Sept. 1880. 2:1-12, Oct. 1880-Sept. 1881. 3:1-12, Oct.
1881-Sept. 1882. 4:1-12, Oct. 1882-Sept. 1883. 5:1-12, Oct.
1883-Sept. 1884. 6:1-12, Oct. 1884-Sept. 1885. 7:73-84, Oct.
1885-Sept. 1886. 8:85-96, Oct. 1886-Sept. 1887. 9:97-108, Oct.
1887-Sept. 1888. 10:109-20, Oct. 1888-Sept. 1889. 11:121-32,
Oct. 1889-Sept. 1890.12:1-12, Oct. 1890-Sept. 1891. 13:1-12,
Oct. 1891-Sept. 1892.14:1-12, Oct. 1892-Sept. 1893. 15:1-12,
Oct. 1893-Sept. 1894.16:1-12, Oct. 1894-Sept. 1895. 17:1-12,
Oct. 1895-Sept. 1896.18:1-12,Oct. 1896-Sept. 1897. 19:1-12,
Oct. 1897-Sept. 1898. 20:1-12, Oct. 1898-Sept. 1899. 21:1-3,
Oct.-Dec. 1899. In progress
Monthly, 32 pp. Founded and edited by H.P. Blavatsky, 1879-85;
H.S. Olcott till 1907. "A Monthly Journal Devoted to Oriental
Philosophy, Art, Literature and Occultism: Embracing Mesmerism,
Spiritualism, and other secret sciences." The magazine was initially
issued at the beginning of the month, each issue bearing the date of the
1st.
* Theosophy. See The Path
2053. Theosophy in Australasia, Sydney. Vol. 1:1-12, Apr. 1895-Mar.
1896. Vol. 2:1-12, Apr. 1896-Mar. 1897. Vol. 3:1-12, Apr.
1897-Mar. 1898. Vol. 4:1-12, Apr. 1898-Mar. 1899 Vol. 5:1-9,
Apr. 1899-Dec. 1899. In progress
Monthly, 8 pp. Editor: John C. Staples until 1897; James Scott
until 1898: Dr. A. Marques until 1901. "The organ of the Australasian
Theosophical Periodicals 567
Section of the Theosophical Society." The title changed to Theosophy in
Australia with Vol. 5, no. 9, Dec. 15, 1899.
2054. Tidsskriftfor Teosofi, Kristiania (Oslo), Norway. 1898. 1899.
Monthly. Editor: Th. Knoff. Published by the Norwegian
Theosophical Alliance. Continued under the title Mimer.
* Universal Brotherhood. See The Path
2055. Upadhi, Sydney, Australia. 1892. 1893.
Eight typescript issues produced between 1892 and May 1893.
Edited by W.T. Willans and George de Cairos Rego. "An Australian
Monthly Theosophical Publication of News and Opinion."
2056. Der Vahan, Berlin, Germany. Vol. 1:1-6 July-Dee. 1899.
German, monthly. Editor: Richard Bresch. Organ of
Theosophische Gesellschaft.
2057. The Vahan, London, England. Initial Series, 1-15, Dec. 1, 1890-
July 1, 1891. Second Series, Aug. 1, 1891-July 1, 1892. Vol. 2:
1-12, Aug. 1, 1892-July 1, 1893. 3:1-12, Aug. 1,1893-July 1,
1894. 4:1-12, Aug. 1, 1894-July 1, 1895. 5:1-12, Aug. 1, 1895-
July 1, 1896. 6:1-12, Aug. 1, 1896-July 1, 1897. 7:1-12, Aug. 1,
1897-July 1, 1898. 8:1-12, Aug. 1, 1898-July 1, 1899. 9: 1-5,
Aug. 1-Dec. 1, 1899 4-
Fortnightly 8 pp. till Vol. 2, then monthly. Edited by G.R.S.
Mead. "A Vehicle for interchange of Theosophical News and Opinions."
Author Index
A. L. P., 659
Adams, E., 1291, 1463-64, 1977
Agarwal, C.V., 1
Agarwal, Hridaya Narain, 2
Agehananda Bharati, 661
Ahlback, Tore, 284
Ahlstrom, Sydney E., 285
Alabaster, Henry, 469
Alberti, Amalia de, 1292
Albertson, Edward, 286
Allen, Jane, 662
Alpha, 663
Amarasuriya, M.P., 287
Amaravella. See Coulomb,
Edouard J.
Amberley, John, Viscount, 470
American Newspaper Writer.
See Langford, Laura
Holloway
Anderson, Jerome A., 1465-70
Anson, W.S., 562
Anstey, F. See Guthrie, Thomas
Anstey
Archbold, William Arthur
Jobson, 288
Aretas. See Pryse, James
Morgan
Arundale, Francesca, 4, 664-66,
1471-72
Arya Asanga. See Hamerster,
Albertus Jacobus
Atkins, Anita [Sylvia Cranston],
210, 667
Atkins, Rev. Gauis Glenn, 289
Atwood, Mary Ann, 566
Bachchan, Harbans Rai, 290,
668
Baillie-Weaver, H., 669
Bailly, Jean Sylvain, 519-20
Bain, Alexander, 521
Baird, A.T., 1819
Baldwin, Samri S., 670
Ballard, Anna, 291
Ballard, Seymour, 5-6
Balyoz, Harold., 671
Barborka, Geoffrey A., 672-73,
1293
Barker, A. Trevor, 674, 1255,
1294
Barnett, M.J., 1473-74
Barratt, Grahame W., 675
569
570 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Barrett, Rose, 676
Barrett, Sir William F., 292
Barrington, Rev. A.H., 293
Bates, Ernest Sutherland, 294-
96, 677
Bayly, Charles, 7
Beane, Veronica M., 1475
Bechhofer-Roberts, Carl E.
[Ephesian], 678
Bednarowski, Mary Farrell, 297-
98
Beechey, Katherine A., 8, 679-
84, 1295-96
Benjamin, Elsie, 685
Bennett, De Robigne Mortimer,
9
Berger, Arthurs., 1820
Bernard, Helene, 686
Besant, Annie, 10-18, 687-99,
1297-98, 1476-1542, 1821-
24, 1943-47
Besterman, Theodore, 19, 700-
701
Bhashyacharya, N., 1543
Bilimoria, N.F., 20, 1544
Blake, C. Carter, 702
Blanch, Grace, 21
Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna, 22-
24, 616-58, 703-15, 1299-
1301, 1825-31, 1922-24
Blavatsky Association, 718-19,
1925
Blech, Charles, 25
Bloede, George, 723
Board, David, 1303
Bobritsky, Lydia P., 724
Bodenhausen, F. de, 725
Bond, George D., 299
Bonggren, Jacob E., 26, 726
Bosnian, Leonard, 727
Bowen, Robert, 728
Bowman, Arthur H., 300
Boyd, Ernest A., 301
Boyer, Paul S., 729
Braden, Charles Samuel, 302
Bragdon, Claude, 27, 730
Brahmin F.T.S., A, 1545
Brainard, M.L., 1546
Brandon, Ruth, 731
Bridge, John Ransom, 732
Bright, Mrs. Charles, 303
Bright, Esther, 28-30
Britten, Emma Hardinge, 304-5,
471, 567
Brodhead, Michael J., 1932
Brodie-Innes, John William,
1547-48
Brown, Jack, 733
Brown, William Toumay, 31,
1304-12
Browning, Kate, 32
Brunton, Paul, 734
Buchanan, Joseph Rhodes, 735
Buck, Edward J., 1313
Buck, Jirah Dewey, 33, 736-38,
1549-54, 1948-49
Budd, Harry Steele, 1555, 1614
Bundy, John C., 1926
Bunsen, Christian C.J., 472
Burfield, Diana, 306
Burgoyne, Thomas H., 568
Burnell, Arthur Coke, 522
Burnett, Mary W., 34
Burnett, R.A., 34
Bums, James, 739
Burr, William H., 740
Burrows, Herbert, 741, 1476,
1556-57
Butler, E.M., 1314
Butler, Hiram, 569
571
Butler, Nicholas Murray, 1832
Butt, G. Baseden, 742
C., 1558
C. A. B., 35,
C. C. M. See Massey, Charles
Carleton
C. S. R. See Ranasinghe, C.S.
Cables, Josephine, 1311
Caithness, Marie, Duchesse de
Pomar, Countess of, 1559
Caldwell, Daniel H., 743-44,
1315
Camp, F.M. Griswold, 1560
Campbell, Bruce F., 307
Caracostea, Daniel, 36, 745
Carrithers, Walter A., 308, 746-
49, 1833-35
Cassels, Walter R., 473
Champollion-Figeac, Jacques J.,
474
Chappel, George, 37,
Chatteiji, Mohini Mohan, 38,
1316, 1561-69
Chattopadhyaya, Jagadisha
Chandra [Roy Choudhuri],
1726
Cheiro. See Hamon, Louis
Chetty, G. Soobiah, 39, 40, 751-
54, 1317
Christie, Violet M., 755-56
Chwolson, D. A., 523
Clark, Abbott, 41, 758
Clark, Orange I., 759
Clarke, Carwood Gerald. See
Brown, William Toumay
Clarke, Fr. Richard, S.J., 309
Cleather, Alice Leighton, 42-43,
760-64, 1570, 1980
Clifford, Terry, 310
Cobb, John Storer, 765
Codd, Clara M., 1318
Cohen, Daniel, 766
Coleman, William Emmette,
311-12, 767, 1319-22,
1836-37, 1915-19
Colenso [pseud.], 768-69, 1838
Codings, C.H., 1977
Collins, Mabel. See Cook,
Mabel Collins
Colville, William J., 44, 770,
1571
Conger, Arthur L., 45, 1323,
1950
Conger, Margaret, 1323
Connelly, James H., 1572-73,
1672-73
Constant, Alphonse Louis
[Eliphas Levi, pseud.], 475-
76, 524-25
Conway, Moncure D., 316-17,
772-73
Cook, Mabel Collins, 46-48,
570-72, 774, 1324, 1574-77
Cook, Neil [N. C.], 1578
Cooper, John, 49-50, 1325
Cooper, Laura M., 775
Cooper-Oakley, Isabel, 51, 776-
77, 1579
Copeland, Rev. W.E., 1580-81
Corson, Eugene Rollin, 778
Cory, Isaac Preston, 477
Coryn, Herbert A.W., 1582-84,
1951
Coues, Elliott, 1927-31
Coulomb, Edouard J.
[Amaravella], 1585
Coulomb, Emma, 1840-41
572 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Courmes, D.A., 1586
Cox, Harold R.W., 1326
Cranmer-Byng, L., 52,
Cranston, Sylvia. See Atkins,
Anita
Crookes, William, 478
Crosbie, Robert, 53, 779
Crowell, Eugene, 479
Crump, Basil, 42, 54-57, 780,
1327-30, 1952-53
Cummins, Ella Sterling, 318
Cutright, Paul Russell, 1932
D. M. S. See Strong, D.M.
Dahl, Ole W., 58
Darmesteter, James, 526
Darwin, Charles, 527-28
Das, Sudarshan, 1331
Datta, Hirendra Nath, 59
Davey, Iona [Mrs. A.J. Davey],
781
Davidge, John L., 60-61, 782-
84, 1332-33
Davis, Kate Buffington, 785
Davy, Ted G., 62, 786-87,
1334, 1842
De Camp, Catherine C., 790
De Camp, Lyon Sprague, 790
Decharme, Paul, 529
Densmore, Helen, 319, 791
Denton, William, and Elizabeth,
480
Dering, Edward Heneage, 1335
Dharmapala, Anagarika, 63-66,
793-94
Ditson, George Leighton, 795
Donnelly, Ignatius, 530
Doubleday, Abner, 796
Dowd, Freeman B., 573
Dowson, John, 531
Doyle, Arthur Conan, 320
Draper, John William, 481
Drinkwater, C.G., 1336
Dubbink, J.H., 797
Dunlap, Samuel Fales, 482-84
Dunlop, Daniel Nicol, 798
Dunlop, Eleanor, 67
Dunn, E. J., 799
Dvivedi, Manilal N., 1587-91
Dyer, Frank J., 1843
E. E. D., 800
E. H. D. See Dunlop, Eleanor
E. S. B. See Bates, Ernest
Sutherland
Edge, Henry T., 801-4, 1592,
1954, 1977
Edge, Sydney V., 69, 1593
Edger, Lilian, 70, 1594-95
Editors of Theosophy Magazine,
The, 805
Edkins, Rev. Joseph, 532
Edwardes, Michael, 321
Edwards, Edgar A., 1596
Eek, Sven, 71-77, 1337, 1844
Eglinton, John. See Magee,
William K.
Eglinton, William, 1338-39
Eklund, Dara, 78-81, 806
Ellinwood, F.F., 322
Ellis, Wm. Ashton, 1597
Ellmann, Richard, 807
Ellwood, Robert S., Jr., 82, 808
Encausse, Gerard ["Papus"], 574
Endersby, Victor, 809, 1845,
1905, 1955
English, W.A., 83, 1598
Ennemoser, Joseph, 485
573
Ephesian. See Bechhofer-
Roberts, Carl E.
Ervast, Pekka, 810
Evans, Henry Ridgely, 812-13
Evans, Violet Firth [Dion
Fortune, pseud.], 1340
Everard, John, 575
Ewing, Arthur H., 323
F. D., 1599
F. H. See Hartmann, Franz
F. T. S., 1600-1601, 1660
Faber, George Stanley, 533
Farquhar, John Nicol, 324
Farrington, Marie Lesquoy, 1933
Farthing, Geoffrey A., 86
Felix, Harriet T., 87
Fellow of the Theosophical
Society, A, 1602-3, 1956
Fields, Rick, 325
Finch, G.B., 1341
Finch, Laura I., 1342
Fisher, Marian R., 814
Fletcher, A, 1081
Flint, Charles R., 326
Fodor, Nandor, 815
Foote, George William, 327-28,
816
Former Associate of the S.P.R.,
A, 1846
Forsyth, J.S., 486
Fortune, Dion. See Evans, Violet
Firth
Francis, T. M. [pseud.], 818
Franck, Adolphe, 487
Freeman, Michael, 88
Freer, Ada Goodrich [X], 1906
French, Hal. W., 329
Fryar, Robert H., 576
Fuess, David C., 330
Fuller, Jean Overton, 819, 1847
Fullerton, Alexander, 90-91,
820-22, 1604-24, 1957-59,
2000
Fussell, Joseph H., 92, 823,
1614, 1625
Fussell, Paul, 824
G. M. See Mitford, Godolphin
G. V. K., 1626
Gandhi, Mohandas K., 331
Garrett, Edmund, 1960
Garrigues, John, 93
Gasparin, Agenor, Count de.,
488
Gates, William E., 1677
Gay, Susan E., 94,
Gebhard, Arthur, 825, 1627
Gestefeld, Ursula N., 1628
Gibbon, Monk, 332-33, 827
Gilbert, Robert A., 828
Gilbert, S.A., 95
Gillespie. Hugh R., 1961
Glass, A.M., 1629
Godwin, John, 829
Godwin, Joscelyn, 334-35, 830
Goldfarb, Russell M., 831
Goldman, Albert, 832
Gombrich, Richard F., 336
Gomes, Michael, 337-47, 833-
44, 1343, 1848-49, 1934-35
Goodrich, Alex. W., 1630
Gopalacharlu, S.E., 1543
Gordon, Alice, 845, 1344
Gougenot des Mousseaux, Henri
Roger, 489-91
Gould, Charles, 534
Govindacharlu, A., 1631
574 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Grandmaison, Leonce de., 348
Grasshoff, Carl Louis von [Max
Heindel], 846
Graye, Michelle, B., 1315
Grazie, 847
Greenwalt, Emmett, 349
Gribble, J.D.B., 1850
Griffiths, Allan, 848-49, 1632
Guenon, Rene, 350
Guignette, Jean-Paul, 850-51,
1302
Guma, Greg, 351
Guruge, Ananda, 352-53
Guthrie, Thomas Anstey [F.
Anstey], 354
H. A. V., 1633
H. B. M. See Mitchell, Henry
H. X. See Hume, Allan Octavian
Haeckel, Ernst, 535
Haemmerle, Alfred, 855
Haidar, S., 97
Haldeman, Rev. I.M., 355
Hall, Angus, 356
Hall, Manly P., 856-57, 1346
Hamerster, Albertus Jacobus
[Arya Asanga], 98-100,
858-61, 1347-49
Hamilton, Bernard, 862
Hamon, Louis [Cheiro, pseud.],
357, 863
Hand, Major W. Hudson, 1634
Hannon, Ralph, 101,
Hanson, Virginia, 864, 1350-53,
1398
Harding, Burcham, 1635
Hare, Harold Edward, 1356-58
Hare, William Loftus, 865,
1354-58
Hargrove, Ernest Temple, 102-5,
1636-38, 1962
Harris, Iverson L., Sr., 866
Harris, Iverson L. Jr., 106, 867-
68
Harris, Sarah, 1639
Harris, Thomas Lake, 577
Harrison, Charles G., 358
Harrison, Vernon, 1851
Harte, Richard, 1359, 1640
Hartmann, Franz, 107, 869-74,
1641-53, 1852-54
Hastings, Beatrice, 875, 1360-
61, 1855, 1907
Haug, Martin, 492
Havens, Kate C., 876
Head, Joseph. See Pope, Joseph
Hecht, Solomon, 1654
Heindel, Max. See Grasshoff,
Carl Louis von
Hensel, Octavia, 879
Higgins, Godfrey, 493
Hillard, Katherine, 108, 1655
Hodgson, Richard, 1856-62
Hodson, Geoffrey, 880
Hodson-Smith, Alfred, 110, 111
Hollis-Billing, Mary J., 881
Holloway, Laura. See Langford,
Laura Holloway
Holt, Elizabeth G.K., 882
Holt, R.B., 1656
Holt, Robert B., 1963-64
Home, Daniel Dunglas, 359
Hone, William, 494
Hooper, E.B., 1657
Hopkins, Edward W., 522
Hoste, William, 360
Hotchener, Marie Russak, 112
Houghton, Frank B., 113
575
Howe, Ellic, 361
Howell, Basil, 115, 883
Howitt, William, 495
Hubbell, G. G., 884
Hubbe-Schleiden, Wilhelm, 885
Hudson, Irene Bastow, 1362
Hull, Rev. Ernest R., 362
Hume, Allan Octavian [H. X.],
1363-64, 1658
Hume, Hugo, 886
Humphreys, Christmas, 887-88,
1365-66
Hunt, Emma, 116
Hunt, James D., 363
Hunt, Wilhelmine J., 1908
Hutch, Richard A., 889
Huxley, Thomas Henry, 496,
536
Hyatt, Thaddeus P., 890
Imperator. See Lewis, A.
Spencer
Independent Theosophists of
Boston, The, 1965
Indian F.T.S., An, 1659
Ingalls, Brian, 364
Inman, Thomas, 497-99
Inquire Within. See Stoddart,
Christina Mary
Irvine, A. A., 1367
J. C. S., 1660
J. V. M. See Van Manen,
Johann
Jackson, Carl T., 367
Jackson, P.E., 118
Jacolliot, Louis, 500-502
Jagannathiah, R., 892
Jaquess, Annie M., 893
Jastrow, Joseph, 368, 894
Jelihovsky, Vera. See
Zhelihovsky, Vera
Jennings, Hargrave, 503, 1427
Jevons, William Stanley, 537
Jinarajadasa, C., 119-31, 895-
912, 1256-58, 1368-79,
1966
Johnson, Harman, 913
Johnson, Paul, 132, 914, 1380
Johnston, Charles, 133-35, 915-
18, 1661-64, 1909
Johnston, Vera, 919-22, 1909
Joly, Nicolas, 538
Jones, Rev. John P., 369
Jones, Kenneth W., 370
Jones, William Angus, 923
Jordan, Kent, 924
Jordens, J.T.F., 371
Judah, J. Stillson, 372
Judge, William Quan, 137-41,
925-37, 1381, 1614, 1665-
84, 1863, 1937-42, 1943,
1967-74
K. H. See Hillard, Katherine
Kamensky, Anna, 938
Kamerkar, M.P., 373
Karunakaran, K.P., 374
Karunaratne, S., 375-76
Keeney, George P., 1685
Keightley, Archibald, 939-42,
1677, 1686, 1937, 1975-77
Keightley, Bertram, 142, 943-47,
1382, 1687-89, 1945-46,
1978, 1982
Keightley, Julia, 143-144, 948-
50, 1690-92, 1979-80
Keleban, Nancy, 394
576 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Kell, Wayne, 951, 1981
Kelly, John, 952
Kenealy, E.V.H., 539
Keulemans, J. G., 1383
Khandalavala, N.D., 145-46,
953-54, 1384
Kiddle, Henry, 955, 1385-87
Kimura. Shotaro, 147
King, Charles William, 504
Kingsford, Anna, 540, 578-79,
1388-89
Kingsland, William, 956-58,
1390, 1693-97, 1864
Kirthisinghe, Buddhadase P.,
377-79
Kislingbury, Emily, 959, 1698
Knight, Richard Payne, 505
Knoche, Grace Frances, 148,
149, 960-63
Kuch, Peter, 380
Kuhn, Alvin Boyd, 150
Kunz, Fritz, 151, 964
L. S., 965, 1700
Ladbrook-Sloan, Jef, 966
La Due, Francia A, 967
Laheri, Rai B.K., 968
Laheri, D.K., 1701
Laing, Samuel, 541-42
Landsberg, Leo, 1614
Lane-Fox, St. George, 969
Lang, Mary Folger, 1702
Langford, Laura Holloway, 152-
54, 970-72, 1391, 1565
Laurence, Richard, 543
Lazenby, Charles, 973, 1392
Leadbeater, Charles Webster,
155-61, 974-80, 1393-94,
1703-7
Legge, F., 381
Legros, George Cardinal, 981
Leichtman, Robert, 982
Leisenring, W. Wilson, 983-85
Lemesurier, Peter, 986
Leonard, Maurice, 987-88
Leopold, Joan, 382
Leslie-Smith, Leslie, 163
Levi, Eliphas. See Constant,
Alphonse Louis
Lewis, A. Spencer [Imperator],
989-90
Lhamon, Rev. W.J., 383
Libra, 1708
Liljegren, S.B., 1920
Lillie, Arthur, 991-92, 1395-97
Lilly, William, 580
Linton, George E., 1398
Linville, William R., 993
Longford, Elizabeth, 384
Lovell, John W., 165
Lull, Marian B., 994
Lundy, John P., 506
Lunn, Rev. Henry S., 1865
Lytton, Edward George Earle
Lytton Bulwer-Lytton,
Lord, 581-82
M. C. See Cook, Mabel Collins
M. G., 166
M. J. B., 167
M. T., 995
McCabe, Joseph, 996
McCorkle, William P., 385
McDonald, Jonathan [Acolyte of
the "H.B. of L."], 583
MacDowall, M.W., 562
McGinley, A.A., 387
Machell, Reginald, 1709
Mackenzie, Kenneth R.H., 507
577
Mackey, Sampson Arnold, 544
McMillian, Alec, 997
Madhowdasji, Babu, 1710
Maeterlinck, Maurice, 1007
Magee, William K. [John
Eglinton, pseud.], 386,
Maher, Michaeleen, 1866
Main, William, 1009, 1711
Maitland, Edward, 388, 540,
578, 1010-11, 1388-89
Malalgoda, Kitsiri, 389
Mann, Walter, 1012
Marques, A., 1713-16
Marshall, Charles, 1399
Martindale, C.C., S.J., 390
Maskelyne, John Nevil, 391-92
Maspero, Gaston, 545
Massey, Charles Carleton
[C.C.M.]., 1400-1405,
1867
Massey, Gerald, 546-47, 584
Mathers, S.L. MacGregor, 548,
585-87
Mathison, Richard R., 1013
Mattice, Alice Love, 1014
Mavalankar, Damodar K., 1868
May, Antoinette, 1015
Mead, G.R.S., 168, 1016-21,
1677, 1717-26, 1982-85
Meade, Marion, 1022
Mencken, Henry Louis, 1023
Merchant, Francis, 1024
Merz, John Theodore, 549
Metcalfe, Catherine Maude, 393
Meyer, Michael R., 394
Meyer, T.H., 395
Michaelson, Alexander, 1025
Milworthy, Esther, 1026
Mirville, J.E. de, 508, 550
Mirza, K.F., 1727
Mishlove, Jeffrey, 1027
Mitchell, Belle Olcott, 1028-29
Mitchell, Edward P., 1030
Mitchell, Henry Bedinger, 169
Mitford, Godolphin [G. M.,
F.T.S.], 1728
Montfaucon de Villars, N., 588
Moon, G. Washington, 1031
Moore, Clara Jessup [Mrs.
Bloomfield Moore], 1729-32
Moore, R. Laurence, 397
Morant, Amy Constance, 1986
Morgan, Arthur E., 398
Morgan, Ellen H., 1407
Morgan, H.R., 1869
Morris, Kenneth, 1033
Morris, R.A.V., 170, 1034-35
Moses, William Stainton, 399
Motwani, Kewal, 400
Mukhopahyaya, Rajendrala, 1733
Muller, F. Henrietta, 1734
Muller, F. Max, 509, 1036-37
Munnik, Gerrit, 1038
Murdoch, Hugh S., 172
Murdoch, John, 401-4, 1039,
1870
Murphet, Howard, 173, 1040
Murray, Oswald, 1735
Myer, Isaac, 551
N. C. See Cook, Neil
Narayanaswami Aier, K., 1736-
37
Navaratne, Gamini, 405
Neff, Mary K., 174-78, 1041-
55, 1408-16, 1871, 1910
Neill, S.J., 179
Neresheimer, Emil August, 180,
1470
578 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Netherclift, F.G., 1872
Nethercot, Arthur H., 406-7
Neufeldt, Ronald W., 181, 1056
Niemand, Jasper. See Keightley,
Julia
Nikolayeff, P.S., 1057
Nizida [pseud], 1738-39
Noel, Conrad, 408
Norris, Henry Handley
[H.H.N.]., 510
O’Brien, James Howard, 410
Oderberg, I. Manuel, 1058-59
Olcott, Henry Steel, 182-202,
1060-74, 1417-23, 1740-54,
1873-74, 1987-91
Old, Rev. B., 1075
Old, Walter R., 203-4, 1076-80,
1755-57, 1992
Oliphant, Laurence, 1424
Oliver, George, 552
Oppenheim, Janet, 412-13
Orchard, Anita F., 727, 1081
Oxley, William, 1082-84, 1425-
26
P., 1085
Palmer, Sarah E., 206
Parsons, George Frederick, 1427
Passingham, C.A., 1086
Patterson, Rev. George, 1087,
1875-77
Patterson, Henry T., 1758-59,
1993
Peacocke, C.L., 207,
Pearsall, Ronald, 414
Pember, G.H., 415
Pennifold, Mary Charlotte, 1088
Percival, Harold W., 1089
Peterson, Adeltha Henry, 208
Pfoundes, C., 416
Phelon, Mira M., 1760
Phelon, William P., 1760
Philaletheia [pseud.], 209
Pilgrim. See Scott-Elliot, W.
Pillai, Casava, 1428
Pissareva, Helena Fyodorovna,
1091-92
Plummer, Fred G., 1761
Pococke, Edward, 511
Podmore, Frank, 1878-79, 1911
Pogosky, A.L., 1093
Pollock, A.J., 1094
Pope, Joseph [Joseph Head], 210
Praed, Rosa Campbell, 1095
Prakasa, Sri, 417
Pratt, Henry, 553
Prentice, John M., 1429
Price, Leslie, 211-12, 1880-87
Prothero, Stephen Richard, 418-
19
Pryse, James Morgan [Aretas],
213-14, 1097-1108, 1762-
63, 1994
Pryse, John M., 1764
Psaltis, Lina, 215, 1109
Quaestor Vitae, 420
Quatrefages de Breau, Armand
de., 554
Quodlibet [pseud.], 1430
Racowitza, Princess Helene von,
1110-11
Radford, Ruby Lorraine, 1112
Ragon de Bettignies, Jean-Marie,
555
Raja, C. Kunhan, 216
Index 579
Rajapakse, Reginald L., 421
Ramanujachary, N.C., 217
Rama Prasad, 1765
Ramaswamier, S., 1431
Rameses, 1766
Ranasinghe, C.S. [C.S.R.], 1113
Randolph, Paschal Beverly, 589,
590
Rangaswami Aiyar, A., 218
Ransom, Josephine, 219-21,
1114-19, 1432
Raschke, Carl A., 422
Rawson, Albert Leighton, 1120-
21
Reddy, B. Ranga, 222, 1122
Redfem, Thomas H., 1123
Reid, John T., 423
Reigle, David, 223, 1124-25
Resta, Enrico, 1126
Rice, Louise, 1127
Richardus, Peter, 425
Riepe, Dale, 426
Robb, Richard, 1128
Roderick, Colin, 427
Roe, Jill, 428-29
Roger, John, 224, 1433
Rohmer, Sax. See Ward, Arthur
Sarsfield
Ross, William Stewart [Saladin],
1129
Roszak, Theodore, 1130
Roy, Parbati Chum, 1131
Rudyar, Dane, 1132
Russell, Edmund, 1133-36
Russell, George W., 1995
Ryan, Charles J., 225-27, 1137-
39, 1434-35
Saladin. See Ross, William
Stewart
Salsini, Barbara, 1141
Salverte, Eusebe, 512
Salzer, L., 1768
Sangharakshita, Bhikshu, 430,
1142
Santucci, James, 431-32
Sarada, S., 1143
Sarda, Har Bilas, 433
Sarvadhikary, Deva Prasad, 434
Satthiandhan, S., 435
Satyanarayana, Pemmaraju, 228
Saurat, Denis, 1144
Savage, Elsie V., 1436
Savage, Helen, 1437
Saxon, Elizabeth Lyle, 1145
Schmidt, E. Oscar, 556
Schram, L., 1769
Schutze, Ernest, 1438
Scotford, J.H., 1770
Scott-Elliot, W. [Pilgrim], 1771-
75, 1779
Scrutator. See Old, Walter R.
Sellon, Emily B., 229
Sen, Norendranath, 230, 1146,
1776
Sepharial. See Old, Walter R.
Severs, Elizabeth, 231, 1147
Sharma, Sri Ram, 436
Sharpe, Eric J., 437
Shearman, Hugh, 232, 1439
Sheldon, Henry C., 438
Shepard, Leslie, 1921
Shinn, George Wolfe, 439
Shirley, Ralph, 440
Sidgwick, Eleanor, 1888
Sidgwick, Henry, 1889
Sinha, Ramjivan, 233,
580 Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Sinnett, Alfred Percy, 234-36,
1148-50, 1259-90, 1440-47,
1890-94
Sinnett, Patience [Mrs. A.P.
Sinnett], 1777-79
Sitaraman, K.R., 1448
Skinner, James Ralston, 557-58
Small, W. Emmett, 1151
Smith, George, 559
Smith, Henry, 238
Smith, John [Viator], 1449
Smith, Suzy, 1152
Smith, Warren Sylvester, 441,
1153
Smythe, Albert E.S., 239-40
Snell, Merwin-Marie, 442
Society for Psychical Research
Committee, 1895-97
Solovyov, Vsevolod S., 1912-13
Spencer, Georg, 1584
Spierenburg, H. J., 1155-57,
1450
Spinks, F. Pierce, 1996
Sreenevasa Row, P., 1780-83
Stallo, John B., 560
Stead, William T., 443-44, 1160
Steiger, Isabelle de, 241
Steinbacher, John, 1161
Steiner, Rudolf, 445
Stewart, Balfour, 513
Stewart, C. Nelson, 1162, 1451
Stoddart, Christina Mary
["Inquire Within"], 446
Stokes, Henry Newlin, 1452-58
Strapping W.D., 447
Street, J. C., 591
Strong, D.M. [D.M.S.], 1784
Studd, Samuel, 242-43, 1898
Student of Occultism, A. See
Hume, Allan Octavian
Sturdy, E. T., 1163, 1785
Subba Row, T., 1459, 1786-87
Subramania Iyer, M., 244
Subramania Iyer, N.P., 1164
Subramania Iyer, Sir S., 245
Summerfield, Henry, 448
Sundaram Iyer, S., 1788
Sundareswara Sastri, R., 1736
Suntharalingam, R., 449
Suntook, Sohrab H., 1165
Sutcliffe, G.E., 1166
Symonds, John, 1167-68
Taffmder, Adelia H., 246
Tait, P.G., 513
Tatya, Tookaram, 1789-90
Taylor, Anne, 450
Taylor, Thomas, 514
Telang, Kashinath Trimbak, 561
Temple, Ernest. See Hargrove,
Ernest Temple
Tenney, W.A.R., 1791
Terry, William, 1170
Thacker, Elizabeth Lorelei, 247
Theobald, Morell, 451
Theosophical Society Committee,
1899-1900
Theosophical Student, A, 1901
Theosophist, A, 1794
Thirds, Mercie M., 1796-97
Thobum, Bishop J.M., 453
Thomas, M.A., 1460
Thomas, Sidney, 1798
Thomas, Wendell, 454
Thouless, Robert H., 1902
Thurston, Fr. Herbert, 1176-77
Tillett, Gregory, 455-56
581
Tindall, A.F., 457
Tindall, William York, 1178
Tingley, Katherine, 253, 1179-
80, 1799
Tollenaere, Herman de., 458
Tucker, W.J., 1181
Tuttle, A.H., 459
Tweedale, Violet, 1182
Two Chelas in the Theosophical
Society. See Chatteiji,
Mohini, and Laura
Holloway
Two Students, 1800
Tyndall, John, 515
Urban, Vonda, 1997
Van Egmond, Daniel, 1157
Van Manen, Johann, 256
Van Mater, John, 1185
Van Mater, Kirby, 1186-88
Vania, K.F., 1903
Venkataram Aiya, J.A., 1801
Venkatasiva Rao, Digavalli, 257
Ver Plank, Julia Campbell. See
Keightley, Julia
Vest, Paul M., 1189
Viator. See Smith, John
Vitruvius, 1802
Vonnegut, Kurt, Jr., 1190
W. G. W., 1803
Wachtmeister, Count Axel,
1804, 1998
Wachtmeister, Constance, 259,
1192-96, 1805-6, 1999-2000
Wade, Joseph M., 1197
Wadia, K.J.B, 260-61, 1198
Wadia, Sophia, 262
Wagner, Dr. W., 562
Waite, Arthur Edward, 592-604
Wake, C. Staniland, 563
Wakefield, Bandusia, 1807
Walker, Edward Dwight, 1808
Ward, Arthur Sarsfield [Sax
Rohmer, pseud.], 1199
Ward, H. Snowden, 1809-10
Waterman, Adlai E. See
Carrithers, Walter A.
Webb, James, 1200, 1904
Weber, Renee, 229
Webster, Nesta H., 460
Welsh, Rev. R. Ethol, 461
Welton, Thos., 605
West, Geoffrey, 1201
Westbrook, Richard Brodhead,
1202
Westcott, William Wynn, 606-
15, 1811
Wheeler, Andrew Carpenter
["Nym Crinkle'*], 463
Wheeler, J. Mazzini, 1203
White, Charles S.J., 263
White, John, 1205
Whitney, Elizabeth, 264,
Whyte, Herbert, 1206
Wickremeratne, L.A., 265-69
Wiggin, Rev. James Henry, 464-
65
Wilder, Alexander, 1207-10
Willard, Cryus Field, 270-72
Williams, George C., 1812
Williams, Gertrude Marvin, 466,
1211
Wilson, Colin, 1212
Wilson, Gail, 273
Wilson, H. Arthur, 1813
Wilson, Horace Hayman, 564
Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century
Wimalaratne, K.D.G., 467
Winchell, Alexander, 565
Windust, Esther, 1213
Witte, Count Serguey Yulyevich
de, 1214
Witte, Count W.S., 1215
Wolfe-Murray, H.O., 1216
Wolff, Hannah M., 1217
Wolleb, Theo. G., 274
Wood, Ernest, 1461
Woods, Charlotte E., 1219
Wright, Claude Falls, 275, 1815
Wright, George E., 276-77
Wright, Leoline Leonard, 278
Wright, Ron, 1220
Wright, Thomas, 516
Wyld, George, 1221, 1816-17
X. See Freer, Ada Goodrich
Xifre, Jose, 1222
Yarker, John, 1223-24
Yeats, William Butler, 468,
1225-26, 1462
Yule, Col. Henry, 517
Zeller, Eduard, 518
Zhelihovsky, Vera Petrovna de,
1227-30, 1914
Zirkoff, Boris de, 76-77, 279-83,
1231-53, 2001
Zweig, Paul, 1254
i s - ? '
IC7u^
/ (r%
f ^ l ' L
l i l t -
f) bi-% -
G
3* y t \ * s -3 f j $u *
^ i*/<X7 -t^f L oo
■ Q p -
C<r&a<^
f^-^vy^htr' y-ty/U
*
\ *A
p ^
f . |»5 - ^
l h *))>*'> ' '^ >•?/?<=>
C'Kos^ 2-»..v*A / / (V ^
^-2,0 c^t-o --v v f .U^v-y
fc-'v
\/
Religious Information Systems
Vol. 15
THEOSOPHY IN THE
NINETEENTH
CENTURY
Garland Reference Library
of Social Science
Vol. 532
Religious Information Systems
J. GORDON MELTON
Series Editor
RELIGIOUS BODIES IN
THE UNITED STATES
A Directory
by J. G ordon M elton
RELIGIOUS INFORM ATION
SOURCES
A Worldwide Guide
by J. G ordon M elton
M AGIC, WITCHCRAFT AND
PAGANISM IN AMERICA
A Bibliography
Second Edition
by J. Gordon M elton
and Isotta Poggi
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
HOLINESS PENTECOSTAL
MOVEM ENT
An Annotated Bibliography
by Sherry Sherrod DuPree
HOLY GROUND
A Study of the
American Camp Meeting
by Kenneth O. Brown
THE CULT CONTROVERSY
A Guide to Sources
by J. G ordon M elton
ENCYCLOPEDIC HANDBOOK
OF CULTS IN AMERICA
Revised and U pdated by
J. Gordon M elton
ISLAM IN NORTH AMERICA
A Sourcebook
edited by Michael A. Koszegi
and J. G ordon M elton
ENCYCLOPEDIA OF AFRICAN-
AMERICAN RELIGIONS
edited by Larry M urphy,
J. Gordon M elton and G ary L. W ard
EXPOSING CULTS
Understanding the Rise of Gurus
in North America
by David Christopher Lane
A GUIDE TO THE END
OF THE WORLD
Popular Eschatology in America
by Jon R. Stone
SEXUALITY, RELIGION
AND M AGIC
A Comprehensive Guide to Sources
by Michael A. Koszegi
THEOSOPHY IN THE
NINETEENTH CENTURY
An Annotated Bibliography
by Michael Gomes
