{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1966__shiller___new_methods_of_knowledge_and_value.pdf","mytitle":"New Methods Of Knowledge And Value","mylang":"de"}
NEW METHODS
OF KNOWLEDGE
AND VALUE
Robert E. Shiller
PHILOSOPHICAL LIBRARY
New York
Copyright® 1966 by Philosophical Library, Inc., Publishers
15 East 40th Street, New York, N.Y. 10016
AII rights reserved
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 66-22005
Manufactured in the United States of America
COMPOSITION BY TOPEL TYPOGRAPHIC CORP., N.Y.C.
To Grace,
My wife and companion,
With all my heart.
A Flower, even if it is only a Daisy,
must have a Root. ··
ARTHUR KoESTLER, The Act of Creation
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
INTRODUCTION 1
I The Need For Methods Of Knowledge 3
II Our Creed: A Balance Of Diversities In Unity 12
III Selections And Abstractions 27
IV Our Mental Faculties 42
v Correlations Of Percepts And Concepts 62
VI More Details About Reasoning: Logic and
Mathematics 80
VII Irrational Influences On Knowledge 93
VIII Language-The Incarnation Of Knowledge 108
IX Existentialism-And Its Impact On Methods Of
Knowledge 119
X Theories Of Value 129
XI Methods Of Cultural Sciences 139
NoTES 155
INDEX 163
NEW METHODS OF KNOWLEDGE
AND VALUE
INTRODUCTION
One of my teachers once told me to polish and re-polish just the
first pages of a thesis: "There you have your reader; he is still
eager to listen; now is the time to tell him."
Following this advice, I hasten to state quickly, in a few brief
paragraphs, what this book intends to say. It is about knowledge;
better yet, about the ways and means of knowledge. My concern
is not to show what we know, but how we manage to acquire
understanding. Thus we will look here at methods-at the bony
structures of our mental bodies.
It must be admitted that conventional procedures are not
enough to locate and define the human position; without them,
however, nothing can be accomplished. Through recognition of
methods, we will be able to find the limits of human faculties.
By means of such an investigation it will become possible to
throw some light into every nook within our human scope.
The objects of methodological investigations are all the other
sciences, in their formal aspects. The results of this work are in-
tended to be used by all other scientists. Encompassed by such an
interaction, this book is meant for methodologists as well as for
anyone concerned with knowledge. Many non-methodologists
seem to be rather vague about their mental tools. Most will ap-
preciate an orderly study about procedures and forms, past and
present, with a look at the future.
With this in mind, I had planned to collect available material
and to streamline it into a simple report. It at first appeared
obvious that large portions of our inquiry should be easily acces-
sible. Much of the material could be expected to be pretty old
1
and quite well established. However, it turned out that much in
this field was very new-very much at the beginning and very
much in need of development. I had to find my way into un-
known lands, again and again. In this framework, the book grew
into a more independent presentation, with a number of new
viewpoints. I can only wish it well and hope that the reader will
enjoy its company, even if he should disagree with certain at-
titudes and statements.
Our discussion belonged, in former ages, to "logic," a branch
of philosophy that dealt with man's systematical reasoning. To-
day, we feel that much more than reasoning is involved, namely,
perceptions, irrational elements, values, and the interrelation of
all these aspects. Logic has, therefore, grown into the broader
"theory of knowledge."
Good old "logic," as well as the modem "theory of know-
ledge," exist obviously for the purpose of assisting and serving
other sciences. In this position-as a helpmate--we find the true
validity of philosophy.
This book will try to be concise and precise. For this reason,
the presentation shall be arranged by topics, and not in historical
order. For the same reason, little attempt will be made to argue
opinions against hundreds of dissenters, dead or alive.
This study of theories of knowledge can only be a result of
myself. The work will resemble books of other authors as much
and as little as my flesh and blood resemble theirs. I, as well as
my presentation, must to some extent be individual, which means
slightly different in appearances, in preferences and in dislikes.
Should the reader have time for only a few more pages, I
would have to recommend the chapters on Value and on Cultural
Sciences, because they study the most important areas of methods
for our time and for the future. Closer to my heart, however, are .
the chapters on Irrational Elements and on Existentialism.
This book affirms the creed that the special disciplines of sci-
ence have to be united again in bi-sociations, in an awareness of
the encompassing entity of all distinctions-of all appearances, of
all reality and, also, of all methods of knowledge.
2
Chapter I
THE NEED FOR METHODS OF
KNOWLEDGE
MAN AS A WORKER, the homo faber, has changed the face of his
earth and has altered his fate, using knowledge as a guide and
devising all sorts of implements, from wheels to space craft and
from hieroglyphs to the television camera.
Whenever he has functioned, our homo faber integrated with
the homo sapiens, the knowing creature. It is not true that human
animals merely adapted to their environment. They also formed
their surroundings to conform to their goals.
A. The Need for Methods
The fantastic success of humanity has been based mainly on
the trained practitioner, who uses tools, language and methods.
This book is concerned with the methods that provide the form
of all human knowledge. We do not intend to ask what men
know, but how they go about knowledge. Our object is know-
ledge-its scope and its structure.
Primarily, we are concerned about methods as they are used in
science. But our discussion will also go into the process of "un-
scientific recognition," by which we live every day and which is
the underpinning of all scientific theories.
Some elementary instruction on the process of knowledge
3
seems to be offered in a number of universities for general con-
sumption and not just for professional philosophers. Such material
is presented in courses on logic and on scientific methods, under
the Department of Philosophy, and a number of books are avail-
able which give proper introductions.1
I must admit that I very rarely met somebody who exposed him-
self to such classes or books during his college years. Apparently,
students and graduates-researchers as well as practitioners-
prefer to fly by the seats of their pants all their life as far as
general methods are concerned.2 Most of them seem to feel that
they are not doing badly, either by sheer intuition, by trial and
error, or by imitation of procedures which appear in use around
them. Still, some of our "scientists" may encounter some doubts,
at least now and then, and will miss a better awareness of the
mechanics of intellectual skills or will fail to gain the assurance
that they know all the tools that apply to certain problems which
do not lend themselves to easy solutions. This is a gap the present
book wants to :fill. It seeks to present systematic knowledge about
methods of knowledge, in easy lessons of a few hours' time.
For such an endeavor, we have to turn mainly to a special area
of philosophy. Once, up to a bit more than a hundred and fifty
years ago, philosophy covered all scientific fields, all natural sci-
ences, and all so-called moral sciences. Gradually, more and more
branches of philosophy grew up and moved into houses of their
own. Every branch of natural science has long-ago left the apron-
strings of philosophy. So have all the social sciences and most of
the humanities. Psychology, for instance, one of the last children
to become independent, has indeed now become so.
From an encompassing scientific coverage, philosophy has
shrunk to a few remaining fields. We now find mainly ethics,
aesthetics, logic and metaphysics as the sole provinces of philo-
sophy. We also encounter the main object of our study: the
"theory of knowledge." ·
The proper technical name for this is actually "epistemology,"
which combines two Greek words meaning almost the same as
our vernacular "theory of knowledge." Quite a number of scien-
4
·tists prefer the term "methodology," which refers to a body of
. procedures. Whichever label we use, our subject has grown at the
side of logic, which is one of the oldest philosophical branches
and has always covered the rules of reasoning. Theory of knowl-
·edge deals with more, namely, with a system of all interactions
in observation, thought and judgment.
It must be mentioned that the consideration of values has
brought about a new and separate branch of philosophy which
has also adapted a foreign name. It is called "axiology," referring
to axioms as the basic reduction of events in knowledge.
Since it seems best to use plain language whenever possible,
we will here use mainly the terms "theories of knowledge" and
"theories of values," which form the title of our discourse.
Both theories deal with structure of all branches of science,
natural as well as cultural; they mean a specialized investigation
of the tools of all sciences, whether they affect the physician or
the lawyer or the sociologist.
All theories of knowledge and values work, as such, with the
usual scientific methods, applying such methods to the object of
methods. In this work, we will also endeavor to observe, describe,
classify, value and arrange certain elements-more specifically,
elements of procedures as they are used in all sciences or in
knowledge outside of sciences.3 We will also look for uniformities
and distinctions and for interrelations of distinctions in unities.
This is a job which the other sciences can hardly do by them-
.. selves; at least, not so well. The specialists of theories of knowl-
edge and of theories of value act in the manner of a central
clearing house. All sciences feed information about their formal
procedures into this center. The specialists process such data,
compare them, analyse them, bring them into conceptual order,
and evaluate them.
The result is an independent body of methods and procedures,
·a code of formal directions which feeds back to other sciences
and is meant to be of use to them in the form of a service.
All this composes a lively process and not just a static system.
Details and presentations are bound to grow and die according
s
to events, trends and insights. While meant mainly for scientists,
the results of this work naturally spill into daily lives and common
activities, not only indirectly through the sciences but also directly,
in the form of clearer guidance for simpler endeavors.
Since the work of specialists in our theories of methods is de-
signed to serve, it should be oriented to the needs of what we
choose to call the consumer. Much still has to be done to live up
to this obligation. The consumer is not interested in thousands of
pages which defend every aspect against all dissenters. The con-
sumer also does not care for a hundred qualifications and counter-
exceptions which aim to take care of every possible deviation.
What the consumer looks for is a usable product and a simple
presentation of its uses and benefits.
Detroit is selling millions of beautiful cars every year, standard-
ized and typed. Each of them looks good. Each is easy to handle
and takes the purchaser where he wants to go. This requires, and
does not exclude, competent designing and engineering. Then,
there is the research and development behind the vehicles. Sam-
ples are carefully tested and there is experimental action on relevant
detail, with close attention to the needs and habits of the con-
sumer and with considerable effort to attract the market.
Our methods of knowledge should adopt similar attitudes. It
seems wrong that our theories of knowledge and values remain
limited to abstract research and speculation and do not care
enough about applications and verifications in practical life. In
our age of specialization, it may not be possible or necessary that
the same people do both the theoretical work and the factual
testing. Even in natural science we have theoretical physicists and
experimental physicists. Albert Einstein, a theoretician, never
conducted an experiment to prove his theories. But neither he
nor science considered his ideas valid until some other experi-
menters had verified his conclusions. The theories of our methods
must, likewise, be correlated to data which can be inspected, and
these data must be proved before postulates deriving therefrom
may be safely accepted.
Not much has been done so far to attract scientists of other
branches to test or to use the methods that are offered by the
6
purists of theories of knowledge and values. Available procedures,
whether they have to do with research or application, do not receive
enough attention in the ranks of the consumers for whom they
were developed. It is a vicious circle that the offered procedures
do not bear factual testimony that they are workable. There is
actually not enough communication and not enough public rela-
tions between customers and the manufacturers of methods.
The more such methods are used, the stronger will be the in-
fluence of the users-the other scientists-on development and
research of methodology. Only through daily applications do prob-
lems of the field become apparent, inspiring further work and
pointing out flaws in theories of knowledge or values. Only daily
use can provide for factual verification, which is what every
theory needs at every step and which is definitely needed to make
science self-correcting.
Our material consists of formal methods. It would, however,
be a fallacy to assume that we could neglect the contents. The
formal aspects of a thing are always influenced by its substance
and by the surrounding fields in which the formal substance ap-
pears. Even if we accept, with Kant, that all conceptual methods
-the forms-precondition the experience of contents, we must
remain aware of strong counter-influences which move contents
into the forms and which give a particular shape to a particular
entity.
This means that the methodologists have to acquire some under-
standing of the practical fields from which their formal materials
come and to which the formal products have to feed back. A
lively interaction will have to be established for mutual benefit
and for verification of results in methodological work.
To gain such an interaction, the methodologist will have to
acquire a certain basic familiarity with the needs and aspects of
the serviced fields, even if this "substantial knowledge" may re-
main rather sketchy. To some extent, in other words, our method-
ologists will have to leave their ivory towers and move out into
the fields.
One of such steps should be that every researcher of methods
should make it a rule to consult an affected expert before he
7
~-~--- ~- - - - - - - - -
··releases statements or opmtons which are grounded in another
area of research. It should not happen, as it still does, that books
about~ methodology appear in print with expressions about legal
principles which are patently wrong and could have been checked
by a chat with a professor of the law school in the same university.
Established patterns should indicate possibilities for method-
ologists. It could be suggested that a law school, for instance, in
the same university at which a theorist of knowledge is accredited,
install a short course on methods of knowledge and values, ad-
justed to the legal situation.
Above all, theorists should start to do their research and to
write their theses in teamwork with scientists in other fields. Here,
the methodological aspects should be established in close co-
operation with the experts of the substance, each checking the
other and using the other's findings.
It will be necessary, as a preparation for such a new order, that
our theories be presented in a language which can easily be ab-
sorbed by other specialists, whose co-operation will be needed
· and who should be attracted to use in their work that which
~methodology has to offer.
This book seeks to contribute to such an approach. The shift
of emphasis to the market place should be of benefit for every-
body: for the consumer and for the producer; and even for the
quality of the product.
B. What is "Knowledge"?
We should, by now, ask what our word "knowledge" actually
covers in terms of a generally accepted meaning. Our whole book
is, after all, discussing certain formal aspects of this entity.
Almost all modern specialists of the theories of knowledge-
the "epistemologists"-avoid a definition. Apparently, they con-
~ sider human understanding as an atomic event which cannot be
broken down any further and neither requires nor permits any
further precision. It seems to be taken for granted that everybody
is sufficiently aware of the reference and that everybody is simply
interested in a discussion of working relations.
8
Such an attitude fits into the trend of modern science, namely,
not to bother what, for instance, electricity really is-nobody can
be reasonably sure of this anyhow and you should not ask ques-
tions which cannot be answered. Modern science likes to leave
such investigations alone; it chooses rather to learn the manifesta-
tions and effects of electricity. Science limits itself to safe ground,
as far as possible, and wants to know more about less, consider-
ing only small areas which permit it to gain control and to make
predictions. It is easier to see how things work and what they do
under certain conditions than to know what they actually are.
Still, it seems strange to begin our discussion with the state-
ment that we do not know what knowing is. We will, therefore,
at least try to narrow our subject down a bit. We will find, then,
that knowledge is obviously a relation between a knower and the
known, between a subject and an object. This means that some
relation exists between internal reactions or actions and an ex-
ternal event--even if this externity may be a secondary level of
the observing subject himself. Man, who is a part of the physical
world, observes his interaction with his surroundings in a scheme
that makes a sensible and self-containing picture.
In such a broad interaction, we consider as knowledge only
special portions of which the knower is reasonably sure, at least
subjectively. Mere opinion or persuasion moves into actual certi-
tude by degrees when it becomes possible to demonstrate and to
communicate it.
The aim is to discover regularities and similarities in a complex
and changing world.4 The human mind fixes attention to anything
that suggests a form in uniformities and differences. Usually, the
understanding grants preferential treatment to traits or events
which are to some extent also traits of another event. The uni-
formity may apply here not necessarily to the total particular
event, but merely to some part, function or structure of it. A
mouse is grouped together with an elephant under the classifica-
tion of "mammal."
Knowledge rests on the fundamental belief that there are uni-
formities in the world around us, or at least in our internal images
of an external universe. Knowledge rests on the faith that there
9
~-~----------~ - - -
exist such regularities beside determinable differences and beside
remaining irregularities.
It is John Dewey's merit5 to have drawn attention to the fact
that every reflective investigation must start with some trouble.
It seems necessary to formulate first a precise question which will
determine the directions in which we look for specific answers.
Following William James, and John Dewey, we would have to
stress the "cash-value" of every question which starts a search
for knowledge. It appears advisable to add that the cash-value
will have to cover more than mere immediate practical usability.
It has to include anything that may at some time point to practical
or even theoretical effects. We live in a totality in which ends and
means move into each other. What may appear as a useless end
today, could become easily an important means tomorrow, in
another context.
Knowledge is not only an interaction between subject and
object, it is also conditioned by an interaction of the individual
knower with human beings around him, and after him. This starts
on the day a baby is born. The child has to grow organs to stand
on his feet and to utter sounds in clearer symbolic speech. For
this, the human creature must have certain inborn faculties. But,
there has also to be a tremendous effort by every child, and
neither the activity nor the abilities would help if they were not
guided and assisted by social actions of parents and teachers.
In this situation, to "educate" can only mean, quite literally, to
lead the learner in his own work of learning. On the learner's
part, knowledge is always a transformation of what is offered. It
is hardly ever a mechanical effect produced by outsiders, like an
image in a mirror. Knowledge and methods of knowledge are,
therefore, individual functions which are grown in interaction be-
tween the knower and his community, from the days when a baby
starts to get on his two legs and to form words and thoughts.
Man is, also in knowledge and in methods of knowledge, not a
lonely individual. He acts as a member of huge groups. He is
conditioned in selections and materials and methods by genera-
tions before him and beside him and he influences human beings
who are not yet born. The search for knowledge is a social func-
10
tion, interacting with individual functions. It is even nationally
colored. It may be true that science has no country. But every
scientist wears the clothes of his time and expresses himself in a
space-time language. He shows in his work characteristics, to
some extent, which he must have absorbed from a rather narrow
society.
The social influence is enhanced by the fact that every one of
us can verify very little in his whole lifetime. In an age of special-
ization, and of tremendous communication, most of our know-
ledge and our methods have to be taken on authority and with
faith in the reliability of innumerable other workers in the vine-
yards. This leads often to a strange triangulation6 : Here I stand;
there sits an author who reports an event or evaluates it; and on
the third level, behind him, is the event itself in its context. Very
often, I have to know the general position of this author to work
out a perspective concerning his report and concerning my vicar-
ious knowledge of his event. Often, I should better be critical not
of what he says, but of what he will have omitted, as a residue
which did not appear relevant to his message.
Bertrand Russell, who has spent his long life on investigations
of methods, has arrived at the conclusion7 that knowledge is a
vague concept-uncertain, inexact and partial. It does not seem
fair to be so cautious. A person who looks at a cup which is half-
filled may complain that it is half-empty. But, he may also just
as truthfully rejoice that it is half-full. This accentuation of the
positive would render better justice to great achievements of many
generations. It would also render better justice to Russell's own
contributions.
11
Chapter II
OURCREED:ABALANCEOF
DIVERSITIES IN UNITY
REcENTLY I was asked, in friendliness but rather seriously,
whether this book will be worth the time and effort-my time and
effort as well as the reader's. In other words: will our discourse
arrive at firm standards by which we can say what is right and
what is wrong?
Many opposing and differing opinions and beliefs have always
appeared beside each other, or in subsequent periods, or in various
countries. The mantle of authority has slipped from the shoulders
of rulers or churchmen who decided for all who lived in their
realm what was true and what was false. Has science assumed
these functions, and are methods of knowledge available by which
each of us can now autonomously make proper decisions?
Or has our emancipation brought us the certainty of general
uncertainty? Are we now compelled to reduce observations and
thoughts to irreducible atomic axioms and to grant equal validity
to the unprovable foundations-and therefore, also, to the whole
opposing buildings? Is, under such a view, Adolf Hitler-with his
gas chambers-just as right as Albert Schweitzer, and can meth-
odology only point to correctly described bases and check further
conforming to the building codes?
To justify the existence of methodological work, we should
state our argument immediately, here at the beginning. We believe
1~
that all learning should sharpen judgment and deepen understand-
ing. The scientific man should do more than the common man.
However, this should never lead to a surrender of the common
man's sane and simple judgments.
Every normal human being is aware of an abundance of op-
posing opinions. Every un-specialized man lives in subjective as-
surance of his own ideology, and considers many other opinions
as justifiable, even if he does not share in them. Every common
man draws lines somewhere, and excludes certain ideologies or
details as outright wrong.
Proper methodology will do just the same, but it will provide
for finer tools to do a better job. Science deepens and heightens
man's faculties. It makes him not less than a human being, and
it also makes him not superman who can answer all riddles of
the universe.
A. The Many Diversities
Our book will develop these opinions gradually in every chap-
ter, from many angles. It is held together by the central theme
that knowledge is based on an interaction and co-existence of
many functions-human functions as well as aspects of the sur-
roundings.
Our viewpoint was advanced in a beautiful fable of thousands
of years ago. Once upon a time, there was a prince in India. He
owned, of course, an elephant and at his court lived beggars who
were in need of a royal refuge. Some of these people had the
misfortune to be blind. On a sunny morning his highness ordered
the elephant into the yard. One of the blind men was led to the
animal's leg and was asked to describe what he found. He touched
it and reported that there was a sturdy column, firmly placed on
the ground, covered with a rough texture and too wide to be
encircled by arms. Another blind beggar went to the trunk and
told that it was thin, moving quickly in all directions, with a moist
finger at the tip. And the third man stood at the tusk and said it
was smooth, hard and curved, sticking out into the air.
The moral of this story is fairly obvious. Every one of the three
13
blind "observers" spoke truth and nothing but truth. But none of
them could experience or tell the whole truth. The report of one
seemed to contradict the others, but actually, all three tales had
to be placed together to come closer to the total truth.
Our story of the blind beggars at the Indian Court does not
only refer to the observers, to the subjects of knowledge; it also
points at the same time to objective levels, to the observed event.
Its totality spreads into many distinctions which exist in harmony
with each other or could interfere with each other.
The Indian beggars express profoundly a general principle of
human knowledge-that of subject and object, and the interaction
between the two. In every part and parcel of our images of the
universe we find reality rising out of a sum of aspects. One event,
the elephant, presents itself to a multitude of observers in reality
of different processes which are exposed to subjective experience.
Only when things are contemplated in variety can reality appear-
a sameness which is hidden in utter diversity. Totality means,
mainly, plurality appearing in unity.
This principle permits many conclusions. Quite a number of
opposing scientific theories or unscientific opinions can be re-
solved by taking all of them together as valid. Very often it would
be wrong to decide in favor of one against all others. Frequently,
every one of them is the truth, but the truth as seen from a spe-
cific angle. In most cases, none of them is the whole truth and
all of them have to be pieced together to come closer to a com-
plete revelation.
That we are faced with many philosophic systems, all disputing
each other, may mainly be due to the fact that each of them
places emphasis on a different aspect--e.g., the blind beggars of
the Indian prince. Each of them often deals with a different es-
sence and a different ideal fragment which claims, erroneously,
the place of the whole being.1 In this situation we find not a
museum of aberrations but a Pantheon of God-like figures.2 Every
system is different and we must assess its uniqueness-and its
limitations. This applies first to the selected objects which come
from a constant flux and influence the methods of knowledge. It
applies also to the observer who is part of his time and nation
14
and is partly determined by his surroundings, also in his methods
of knowledge.
Life and science and philosophy are in constant changes in
space-time and are in constant dialogue. Man is very finite and it
would be reaching beyond the realm of human faculties to expect
that some philosopher somewhere at some time could have utter-
ed the last or final word. Similarly, this applies to methods of
knowledge. Every great man in every nation and in every genera-
tion has spoken his piece and we have inherited limited contribu-
tions which we appraise and restate according to our own inner
and outer existence.
This adds another reason for acceptance of plurality. Our views
will force us to reject the claims of many monists who try to
freeze explanations to some selected single cause. We are still
surrounded by systems which proclaim narrow monistic creeds.
Materialists consider substance as the ultimate from which every-
thing had to derive, including life and thought and emotion. His-
torical materialism finds in economy the decisive base of all forms
and changes and finds there all conditions for the determination
of individuals. More than half of today's civilized world adheres
to such belief.
In Kant's universe of appearances, we find the observing sub-
ject as the ruler. In rationalism, man's reasoning power becomes
supreme. For Francis Bacon, it was sensual verification; for Ber-
keley, it was spiritual concepts; and Nietzsche or Sartre reduce
everything to human activity, to the desire for discharge. In almost
every one of these opinions, the revered single cause can indeed
be isolated to good avail, but only for a closer look and only for a
partial investigation. In almost every one of these issues, the selected
monistic cause exists actually, but only in a bundle with other
causes which contribute or interfere, and which have to be added
for a closer understanding of the particular wholes. Only the
cluster holds democratic sovereignty. The residues, which are
embarrassing to all monists, have to be restored.
Our attitude of "togetherness" and the fable of the blind beg-
gars find a parallel, on a different level, in Hegel's method of
thesis and antithesis which are resolved in a synthesis. Left and
15
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - -
:its opposite, right, become united as directions. Man and woman
meet as human beings. We will have a closer look at Hegel's
many-sidedness of reflections in Chapter V.
Plurality is most important also in the conceptual realm of
reasoning and pure thoughts. It is easy to arrive in abstract terms
at a highest hierarchic term, at the crowning monistic top of the
pyramid, into which all the lower multitudes are flowing. But the
·higher our notion goes, the more removed it will be from content
because it had to omit more and more details in order to get to
'the top. The higher and the more monistic our pure concept be-
comes, the more it is drained of value and meaning. Humanism
:may include all humanity, but it surely does not say much, as
such, about you or me or any particular man. So, even in abstrac-
.tions, we find useful and meaningful terms only on the lower
levels of diversification, only in the realm of pluralities. In ab-
stractions, as well as in all other relations, we live in innumerable
combinations of innumerable elements, in diversities and their
combinations and inferences.
The many causes that will necessarily always appear in one event
should also remind us to be cautious whenever we express definite
viewpoints. We will easily be tempted to utter verbal statements
with much more precision than we can actually justify. It is mislead-
ing to convey a sharp picture of an event which is actually blurred,
just as it would be wrong to describe edges as blunt when they
·are sharp. The difficulty here often is that the one and only view-
point with which we happen to be dealing appears precise to
ourselves as long as we focus attention on it, but will become
softer and more amenable to additional facts as soon as we are
aware of other causal aspects.
It happened, not so long ago, that Ludwig Wittgenstein wrote
a basic book on his philosophy of language3 and felt later that his
statements .had to be toned down.4 The same has occurred to
A. J. Ayer in an earlier and a later edition of one of his books5•
A law will often find itself overruled by another law in a par-
ticular situation. On the other hand, we must often have the
courage of a decision, namely, to isolate from the many favoring
and obstructing conditions "the prevailing adequate cause," the
16
one which tips the scale. In all complications, we may often have
to simplify, to jump for the jugular. The competent driver knows
when to drive fast and when to drive slowly. And the competent
researcher or professional will look carefully at distinctions, every
one of them, in the context of all available others in a total field,
until he jumps at his prevailing conclusion. Clarity, which is
based on selection, will have to compromise constantly with con-
siderations of residues-other different causes and aspects. Our
inclination here in this book is to cope with this dilemma some-
how in favor of a clear presentation to the reader. We will still
try to achieve balance and will bring one point forth at a time.
Variations, or interfering causes and supplements, will often then
be taken up in their proper context in a later chapter.
Doing this, we are forced to a stringing-out by the structure of
language. Whenever we communicate verbally or in writing, we
must utter one statement after the other in a combination of
fragmented sentences. But all parts and thoughts and chapters of
this book have to be taken together, constantly at almost every
step, each supplementing or qualifying the other statements. We
must describe in linear succession of words many facets of one
total event in our theories of knowledge.
When we describe knowledge as form, we have to be constantly
aware of an interaction of many functions. Every sentence pokes
at some aspect of the living phenomenon of such a process. All
of them are reports of blind beggars who only in communication
can hope to come close to an image of reality. The proper theory
of knowledge requires a constant work of integration. All the
interacting causes are upsurges on the same ground. The world-
our object of knowledge-is a living entity which is constantly
changing in movement and duration. We, the participating sub-
jects, are living beings who grow and decay. No wonder, then,
that the body of knowledge-that product of continuing relations
between living subjects and living objects-grows and changes in
many distinctions; not only in contents, but also in the intellectual
tools and categories of formal methods.
17
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ; : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
B. The Groups
That this is so, will in no way lead to complete relativity or
disorder. Let us look carefully at how we can establish some hier-
archies and some guidelines.
The medieval Christians could not bear the existence of her-
etics or of alien religions. Past centuries have extended this en-
forcement of one faith to politics, to social orders and, to some
extent, to science. We have still, today, many ideologies which
seem to find life worthwhile only if there can be a fight for com-
plete victory of their own uniform standards over all mankind.
This view is held today by all communists. It is practiced by many
others.
Actually, such an attitude should be hard to reconcile with
factual observations which have, at all times and in all countries,
shown a great variety in men's ideas about his own nature, about
his relations with other men, and about his surroundings.
On the opposite pole, the so-called "liberals" have for quite
some time, at least in lip-service, favored the opinion that every
human being should be recognized as an individual, as a particular
totality. Such an attitude embraces the view that knowledge and
its methods are valid only for every one particular person; that
they are produced by his specific intellectual equipment and that
there is no proof or dis-proof among the various ideologies.
The truth seems to be somewhere in the middle--between the
two extremes. It appears that the individual is neither "all-class"
nor "not-at-all-class." People belong, predominantly, to some
species of a class, to a smaller subdivision. They are not typed
as individuals by a whole nation or by all humanity-monistic
concepts which are drained of details and meaning-but they are
also not alone in this world. They actually are members of a
smaller or bigger "pack." Everybody has his group, socially as
well as ideologically, or he will at least some day find his proper
affiliation with companions of his preference and of similar
characteristics.
That somebody "was a Nazi" says too much and not enough.
It would say more if you could locate him as a business executive
18
who steered his corporation through the Nazi-tides. It would mean
something entirely different if he belonged, in Germany at that
time, to a unit of elite storm troopers and was a guard in a con-
centration camp.
It may not say much to mention that somebody is a lawyer.
But it will become more significant to place him as a specialist
for injury cases in a certain large city in the United States in the
year 1966.
So, our first principle of order, in all diversities and ideologies,
will be that we do not have to deal with every individual and his
peculiarities but with groups of people. We can, accordingly, re-
duce the varieties, in knowledge as well as in methods, to groups.
Under the term "group," we recognize not merely a sum of
independent individuals but a combination of interacting people
who have certain traits and attitudes in common. We find this
grouping present in national languages which are, again, united
in families of languages. Our questions will determine, pragmatic-
ally, how far we will go in linguistics to move to smaller or bigger
groupings of differences and dialects. What is true about out
symbolic speech is just as true in general about all aspects of
methods of knowledge. In modem psychology, C. G. Jung6 places
emphasis on "psychological types," into which human beings are
separated.
An allocation of varieties to groups makes the areas smaller
and makes it possible to describe and to classify ideologies, not
into a total system of monism, but into definite numbers of related
systems, all supplementing each other or existing at opposite ends
of the scale.
Human knowledge has never been uniform. From the very
beginnings, we find opposing opinions and opposing methods.
But, we always find several people adhering to similar views in
larger or smaller groups. Men exist and can be understood not
under "all men" and also not under "every man by himself."
Human beings live in groups, they act in groups, they believe in
groups. Men are not universal and they are not singular. They
happen to be particular.
19
C. The Balance
Our next step comes from a rather different level. We turn to
the science of "Business Adminstration" and find there a special
division of "Internal Control." This refers to a systematic organ-
ization of business enterprises for the purpose of safeguarding
against pilfering of funds by employees. The basic method con-
sists of breaking a complex job into several components and of
assigning every component to a different employee. One employee
makes the sale, another accepts the money, a third writes the
record, and a fourth delivers the goods. In such a fashion is
established a number of different functions and different respon-
sibilities. All these diversities have to perform the job together,
in harmony, under automatic mutual control. The one depends
on all others and at the same time serves as a check on all others.
Such systems are generally accepted and have proved their ef-
fectiveness. Actually, Business Administration follows here, ap-
parently without being aware of it, certain principles which the
founders. of our federal government established hundreds of years
ago. We mean the system of checks and balances which Hamilton,
Madison and Jay eloquently laid out in The Federalist Papers7• It
was their contention that different authorities should exist together
and against each other in a system of checks and balances within
a particular political structure. Increased variety meant to them
increased general security8• The Federal Union and the States, the
legislative and the juridical and the executive branches in each of
them, the judge and the twelve jurors, all orbit around each other.
The founders of such a political organism expressed clearly
and intentionally that the various authorities should exercise com-
mand and responsibility for the common good and for proper
general protection, by checking and counter-checking each other
constantly, under a variety which formed a unity.
Whether Hamilton and his companions knew it or not, they
were applying a principle of gigantic size reaching way beyond
politics, indeed, way beyond society. The balance of varieties, in
unity, actually dominates, physically and mentally, all our life. It
dominates every part and parcel of the universe.
20
Our own bodies exist physiologically in a balance of secretions
and of organs. We fall sick as soon as this balance is perturbed,
be it by underaction or by overaction of some part. Man lives
in an equilibrium of physical and mental faculties. If we look at
one of our functions singly, we will find that a horse can run
faster than man, that a dog has a better sense of smell, and that
a lion is more powerful. If we consider mechanical simulations of
human types of actions, we find that automobiles cover distances
quicker and with better endurance than men's legs. Telephones
carry voices farther and computers add and multiply many times
quicker and more accurately.
But man is still unique as the one and only creature who in
entity and equilibrium unites such abilities with innumerable other
functions that melt into each other and give him superiority as a
particular whole, even while almost every single element of his
compound appears inferior to comparable carriers.
In the world around us, stars and planets move in balances of
gravity, attracting and repelling each other in a heavenly dance.
Every atom teems, in all probability, with harmonious patterns
of energetic charges. Our daily activities are integrated in balances
of distinctions, in sleep and waking, in work and play, in active
togetherness with family and quiet contemplation in solitude.
In economic and social organizations, we live under divisions
of labor, with innumerable specialists performing different types
of tasks all over the world, all held together in frameworks of
national and international balances. As a social being, man exists
in an ever-renewed suspension as an individual and as a member
of a group--conforming, and forming, and withdrawing.
.H we turn now to methods of knowledge, we will find many
ap_ llications of our general principle of the distinctions within
uruty, of the eternal equilibrium. Among several legitimate theo-
ries that have all passed our tests of exclusion (what we mean
here is discussed in the next part of this chapter), we will prefer
the one that is best balanced. This means: the theory which can
be reconciled properly with the greatest number of other opinions.
Desire for balance will often lead one to look at the same prob-
lem and the same solution from the viewpoint of an opposing
21
hypothesis. It will often happen that the same result-the same
answer to the same question-can be rendered through a hostile
ideology. Whenever this can be done, the area of agreement with
opponents can be widened, in sincerity and integrity, with the
conclusion by both adversaries that a discourse on ideology be-
comes irrelevant. It may come as a surprise that this line of argu-
ment is often used in the legal field and is effective whenever it
can be forwarded.
New discoveries are made by moving separated views together
in a new balance of a new unity. The true genius has a mind of
eager general powers, only accidentally devoted to some special
field, ready for all things but chosen by circumstances for one.
Whoever works as a scientist, and is a ready consumer for our
methodology, will have to live ahead for generalizations and gen-
eral connections, with an eye for particulars. Our principle of
balances will lead to the desire for a true dialogue with opponents,
to the desire for solutions of problems from all possible angles,
and to the desire for removing errors from our own system. What-
ever we have described here in detail, in connection with the
principle of balance of diversities, represents only a few samples,
and it does not even matter whether you agree with every one of
them. What counts is that the principle is universal.
The balance permeates appearances, events, knowledge and
methods everywhere, and will meet its impact in ever-changing
contexts, in every chapter of this book. The totality of all our
opinions and statements rests on such a foundation of pluralities
which exist together in suspense. All diversities swing in a pen-
dulum of harmony and repulsion and all belong together in unity.
These principles can easily be established, by perceptual obser-
vation, by logical reasoning, and by judgments. It should not ~e
difficult to arrive at a mutual agreement about this foundation hn
which our discourse rests.
D. The Exclusions
From all these heavenly harmonies, we tum now to the dis-
sonances: How do we arrive at exclusions, at absolute disap-
provals or approvals of ideologies or details, at the definite yes
or the definite no to certain opinions?
We can do this by drawing, first, a simple conclusion from our
principle of balance. It requires that every set of ideas and beliefs
has to preserve a minimum amount of room for other values and
forces; also, in the use of means for ends. Every ideology can be
true only preponderantly, in an encompassing world, and must
leave some room for a minimum of deviations and of values at
other levels.
This principle of minimum balance is not just a device to
denounce all ideologies which happen not to be liberal or demo-
cratic, or which we just do not like for some reason or other.
Communism, much as I disapprove of it, could easily provide
for some minimum individual integrity or initiative, and a demo-
cracy has to include social limitations and connections of indivi-
duals. Only the extreme means or the exclusive goals will have to
be condemned under our rules of balance.
Our next level of exclusions are outright errors. This effects
first the area of conceptual fallacies-the realms of faulty reason-
ing and conclusions. It does not require much courage to say
that three plus three does not result in seven, under our assumed
mathematical rules. Whoever has wrongly totaled a column of
arithmetical figures and has been shown his error will hardly
defend himself by saying that the supposedly correct sum is rel-
ative and can not be established with absolute certainty.
In the realm of perceptions, we must exclude as not valid all
statements about facts which are claimed to be proved while they
are only wishful thinking or have already long been disproved.
This applies also to a denial of facts or their omission after they
have been proved beyond doubt. I was still taught in school about
that marvellous light-ether, years after the Cleveland experiments
by Michelson and Morley had dispelled the factual bases for such
an assumption.
In combinations of percepts and concepts, the disproof of fun-
damental facts must affect the whole superstructure, which will
then have to be altered or abandoned. When certain basic facts
are proved outright, the whole structure on them will have to be
23
recognized; it cannot any longer be denied.
When we speak here of certain circles of absolute assurance, in
the yes or the no, we must not assume god-like omniscience of man;
we must be content to speak with sufficient assurance within our
space-time conditions. All our discussions are placed in such a
situation and we are satisfied with a distinction of absolute assur-
ance in certain areas under the human condition. If this should
not be good enough for a pure philosopher, and if we should be
exposed to the objection that we cannot establish absolute cer-
tainty in the metaphysical sense, we would gladly yield the point.
It is true that in later periods important facts may be disproved
or discovered, or factual social conditions may have vanished, or
new conceptual hypotheses may gain ground. Modern science
likes to pride itself on the ever-present status of probation and of
possible change. We prefer to look at this just a bit differently
and a bit more positively. Opinions which are valid in good faith
on certain limited knowledge at a certain time should be accepted
then and there as rock-like ground, positively or negatively. After
all, even the cautious modem scientist must deep-down believe
that what he states is correct.
We finally have, in a positive direction, a rather small circle
of natural facts which are in accord with basic human nature or
with nature in general, as it always has been known. The facts
that men can have knowledge and that they are distinguished by
speech and thoughts and judgements, or that the sun shines, or
that men exist on earth, will hardly be considered as relatively
unsure, in the opinion of anybody who can be considered sane.
With1n our circles of exclusion from relativity-within the
realms where certainty exists, at least under the human condition
of our space-time-pulses now a tremendous abundance of truly
relative systems and details. Here, neither bases nor superstruc-
tures nor interpretations can be proved as valid or invalid, under
scientific methods. In this tremendous area we encounter true
plurality.
In all these directions, we encounter again our principle of
balance which helps to reduce the remaining fields of relativity.
After we have done all we can to reduce relativity, we will still
24
find a huge field with true plurality and co-existence. These are
the remaining opinions and ideologies which in bases or details
can be neither proved nor disproved nor reconciled. But for this
realm, we can speak of relativity as such. Here, each entity
rests. on axiomatic foundations which remain beyond objective
decisions. We meet here the particular convictions of honest men
who do not see alike on issues.
We said before that men travel in groups, neither alone nor
all united. Here I stand, a particular entity, together with the
friends of my group; we have our axioms in which we believe
and which we cannot prove, but we also have conclusions and
observations which are provable. Relativity enters here only when
I look at other groups. There is nothing uncertain in my individual
assurances that I have a definite opinion and that I am entitled
to it. Relativity means only that I have to grant the same right
to the units of other fellows, admitting the co-existence of our
diversities.
We are all, again, sustained in balance. This means true toler-
ance. Not just the friendly politeness of a sceptical or unsure
person, but the faith in one's own stand and the faith in the need
of balancing distinctions which check and countercheck opinions.
In this symphony of different units, it can hardly be decisive
whether one set is generally accepted at present or not. Christian-
ity can hardly have been wrong at the period of the Apostles and
suddenly be absolutely right in medieval Europe. Kierkegaard and
Schopenhauer were considered worthless in their time and are
considered profound today. Karl Marx appeared ridiculous in the
Germany of his lifetime and is the father of the political-economic
structure of half of the world today.
When we look closer, we may find some reasons for such
changes. The ability and contributions of great men must have
proper conditions and surroundings to be of effect. Time and
place must be ripe for them, and their greatness must coincide
with the demands and needs of the environment. This means an-
other aspect for the tolerant co-existence of diversities. What is
today in opposition, may just be valuable merchandise in a huge
storehouse, waiting for retrieval and for tasks at other times and
25
--------- - - -
places when the general problems or facts become different.
In the abundant harmony of varieties, nobody should abandon
his birthright to state his definite yes and his definite no in abso-
lute assurance to some extent and in awareness of the relative
validities in others-absolute, of course, on human grounds and
not under the standards of all-knowing gods. We must also remain
aware of the identity of others and welcome their presence,
which holds ours in balance. The sound of the trumpet remains
different from that of the violins, but joins them in the interweav-
ing of a musical composition.
26
Chapter Ill
SELECTIONS AND ABSTRACTIONS
CHAPTER II set the mood and the frame for this study. Whenever
we look at a detail, we will see it at the same time as a particular
entity and as part of both a sub-whole and a whole. Whatever
we single out for a closer look exists within a universal process.
All distinctions are inter-acting or counter-acting within unity.
With this approach, it seems safe to come now to the actual
object of our book-the methods themselves. Here we intend to
start with conventional scientific theories which have worked for
thousands of years through so-called "essentials." This means that
static fragments were selected and combined. These procedures
apply to all faculties of human knowledge, to observations as
well as thoughts and judgments. We live within such processes
not only in science, but also in our daily tasks.
A. A Child is Born
The world around us and the world within us appear as a
stream of events, a vague, raw existence, alive and growing and
dying. We gain understanding and we establish control by cutting
out small pieces, by selecting a few significant facts, by recogniz-
ing similarities and patterns. We isolate what is really imbedded.
An example may bring this into sharp focus. Let us take, for
instance, the event of a child's birth. The doctor is concerned with
the physiological process of birth. A statistician marks a column.
27
- - - - - - - -------- ------------
-----
The family's lawyer checks a trust agreement-if our baby should
belong to the right family. The photographer scrutinizes a tiny
face. The psychologist may be interested in early mental reactions,
and a writer will translate into verses the mother's pain during
the glorious emanation of new life.
Every one of our "specialists" chooses just a few elements
which appear important under a certain viewpoint. For the pur-
pose at hand, everyone of our participants has a close look at a
few selected factors and neglects all other details which he con-
siders irrelevant to his purpose. The chaff is removed from the
substance, and what is chaff in one context may become substance
for a different investigation.
This method works on different levels. It applies first to the
observed object of which only certain portions are chosen. But
it affects also the subject, the observer. Prior to his acts of selec-
tion, he has already channeled his attitudes of observation. He
has selected the direction in which he intends to throw his beam
of light. It will be a narrow beam aimed at a wide stage, illumi-
nating a tiny sector of visibility and leaving everything else in
darkness.
The observer will design his patterns of selection according to
his prior experience, which has been stored in his memory and is
now retrieved. Habit as well as experience will present selective
directions for observations and for verifications. The problem may
suggest new combinations and new avenues which had not been
tried previously. All these "methods" will actually come from an
abundance of interactions between subject and object.
Our lines of selection will be influenced by our emotional judg-
ments. Our interests, our anticipations and our repulsions modify
the categories of perceptual experience and determine concepts
and modes of reasoning. We can only see what we have decided
to look for and we will hear the sounds to which we strain our
ears. We find only what we are searching for out of thousands
of other events which we could have experienced just as well but
which we did not choose. We select, also, special patterns of
thought out of thousands which are available for the grasping.
In all observation, only a few details are reaching me. I have
28
filtered out all others. The existing total event has to pass through
reductive lenses, through the observer's mind. Every work of man
betrays the prejudiced eye governed by selective codes which
lend coherence to a vision. Every selection chooses parts, exag-
gerates these parts, and simplifies the connections.
Such a choice of relevant fragments has been a tool of science
ever since science was born.1 Outside of science and long before
science, the "choice" has always been a way of human living,
from the hour when we wake up in the morning down into the
dreams of the night.
Out of overwhelming multitude, we select our line of work, our
employers and our hobbies, our house and our car-last but not
least-our spouse, the companion of our lifetime. We select our
friends and we choose our enemies. Fate has selected for us,
·again out of infinite multitude, our niche in space-time, our na-
tionality, our social background, our gifts and our shortcomings.
Even our body, through every organ and every tissue, selects and
classifies from differing substances just the elements which can
satisfy this or that need. The rest, our body simply disregards2•
B. Abstractions: The First Step of the Classical Scientific Method
Our principle of selection, by which we live, also governs our sci-
entific methods. Every branch of science, today and far back, has
been working with classifications, by so-called abstractions and
by systematic combination of such abstractions. We approach
here the fundamentals of all theories of knowledge.
IIi selection, we may actually break a whole substance into its
components. The chemist does this by analysis when he separates
water into two parts hydrogen and one part oxygen. The physicist
does it when he smashes particles into atoms. Gutenberg did it
when he combined separate letters into a matrix, which he placed
into his printing press.
In pure science, such cutting of wholes into elements is mostly
done without destroying or harming the particular object; it is
done simply mentally-by thoughts-not physically. Through this
we leave the object intact and just observe certain parts or think
29
of certain selected portions and their relations. We do it by
"mirrors." We use mental isolation of certain components of
directly given data. Out of a complex, we select portions by
mental action.
I look at a table in my room and state that it has four legs,
a light brown color, or that its style is Early American. I meet
my neighbor's poodle and recognize that he is of so-called "toy-
size," of black color, of friendly disposition and that he is a dog.
I read in my newspaper about L. B. Johnson and realize him as
a President of the United States, a husband to his wife, a father
to his children, a Southerner, a rancher, or a professional poli-
tician.
Taking selected parts out of complex particulars, mentally and
in thought-images, is called the process of abstraction. Here, some-
thing which does not exist in isolation is considered in an isolated
state. Attention is given to some limited aspect of a complex
whole-or better, sub-whole-and all remainders are neglected.
We concentrate on one detail, or on a few details, for a closer
look. In our mind, we de-totalize the totality. The "simple" is
wrested from the confusion.
The complex is decomposed, in mental operation, and each of
these ideal elements of a particular event is linked with related
elements of other events. We isolate some property or some rela-
tion which some event has in common with other events and we
bring together under one term similar elements which are taken
from various individuals.
By such human faculty of reflection-a contemplating activity
of observation and thoughts and judgment-we discover the
universal in the particular, the permanent in the transient. Reflec-
tion gives, through abstraction, some reference to elements or a
complex event, leaving the complex alone in all other aspects.
Reflection searches for limited truth and for a few definite con-
ditions in the conditioned. And every selection means at the same
time, negatively, an anti-selection of all remaining residues. Every
inclusion determines the exclusions.
The word "abstraction" is of Latin origin, from abstrahere. It
means, literally, to remove, to take off. It seems that the term
30
covers the activity discussed above pretty well. Our method of
abstraction has completely taken over all branches of science. It
lives in all methods of knowledge and is integrated in our daily
lives outside of science.
Abstractions, by purpose and definition, are part of the mental
world and are opposed to the concrete, actual reality as it exists
or as it appears. We abstract mentally from concrete or apparent
events. But we can also go further and form abstractions from
thoughts and abstractions by removing elements of compound
concepts which we combine, then, with similar elements of other
abstractions, climbing to higher and higher levels of determination.
In our thought-images we abstract a common element from
various particulars, from universal classes which we describe
verbally or symbolically. These classifications become mental fam-
ilies of which the particulars are only members. (The neighbor's
Fido is a dog, a mammal, an animal.)
As we climb higher in our abstractions, we order them into
sub-systems and systems, in clean hierarchies. As we move higher,
the individual characteristics of the events necessarily become
more and more lost. The similarity to life becomes more and more
extinct in generalizations. The vivid red of a pretty dress of my
daughter becomes a lifeless "color." Happy poodle Jackie be-
comes just "a dog." My friend Billy, actually a nice reliable chap,
is reduced to a middle-aged engineer, an American citizen, or
even just a human being.
The reflective power of abstraction produces fixed, static images.
The dust of such dead generalizations is drawn from a universe
which teems with life and which exists in fluid continuity. Even
a cluster of rocky mountains at which I gaze and which seem
sturdy and unchangeable have actually a span of age, with an
origin of millions of years back in history. These same mountains
have before them a process of decay and of eventual annihilation
over merely a few more million years hence. At present, these
rocks are pulsing in fields of energy and contain in their atoms
continuous movements and charges.
Obviously, even what we call static matter exists in constant
processes. It appears only static to us humans because of our rei-
31
-------~----------
ative position based on a short life span and limited senses. In all
probability, there may exist in the world actually nothing which is
genuinely static, with the exception of our mental, abstracted im-
ages or the abstractions of science. Nevertheless, this fragmenting
and deadly method of abstraction has gained tremendous ground
and has produced marvellous results.
In our schooldays, we used to separate concrete objects from
abstractions. In childhood's language, this meant the difference
between what we can see and what cannot be seen. Or, in more
precise words, we consider as concrete the particular objects in
the world of appearances which are accessible to perception.
When we look closer, this neat distinction may become slightly
uncertain. Almost every statement about perceivable reality is al-
ready a mixture of abstractions with concrete references. When I
state that four legs give stability to my table, I have never heard
or seen the "four" or the "stability." The verb "give" is also
obviously abstracted from many observed concrete actions and is
applied here pictorially. The legs and the table may be concrete,
referring to an actual particular entity which exists before me.
But even here, I call such a concrete particularity by names of
class memberships, by family names of abstractions. When I utter
a word and give a name to some concrete complexity, I seem to
be able to call it only by its classifications, by abstractions under
which it belongs.
To make it clear that I mean a concrete, singular, certain object,
I have to add to the abstract classification name of "table" a dem-
onstrative word, calling it "this" table, or a possessive term, "my"
table. When I do this, I actually add several abstract terms to-
gether. To single out one particular complex I add other specify-
ing abstractions to the general abstraction (my two-year-old brown
poodle, Jackie) .
Everything that is expressed in language seems to make use of
universals and seems to string together only abstractions. Even
when we refer to the concrete, we cannot escape identification by
combined abstractions. This domination of our cognition by ab-
stractions could be explained a bit more scientifically. Modem
32
science continues Kant's neat distinctions-which we will present
in more detail in Chapter IV. Accordingly, the conceptual cate-
gories (avenues of thoughts and abstractions) are prior to all ex-
perience and to all perception, and are guiding observations. In-
dependent from all experience, thoughts and concepts exist also
purely in their own realm.
Our abstractions will, naturally, be concepts. They will often be
conceptual images taken from perception, or so-called concepts by
intuition. As soon as we think, or abstract, or speak, we can only
move within the lofty realm of intellectuality-removed from the
concrete. Our abstractions are actually not taken from observation,
but only correspond to it on a different level. They are, always,
thought-images or pure thoughts. We speak in abstract reflections
which we have of concrete things-and not of concrete things as
such.
•.. With this in mind, we repeat: what we said about complete dom-
ination of our world by abstractions does not just refer to a scien-
tific activity. It permeates all human endeavors--our sensual per-
ception, and our expressions concerning emotional judgments, every
part and parcel of human activity. We repeat also: we live by
selections. This means as well that we live by abstractions, either
purely or in combinations. There is nothing left that remains un-
touched by this almighty cutting method. The "systems" have be-
come part of conscious and subconscious human nature and have
penetrated science as well as daily life.
It is a very old controversy as to whether we actually encounter
abstracted universals in immediate experience. In other words: do
we really see a building when we look at a house; do I really see
"brown" when I look at my poodle? Or do all abstractions exist
only in one's mind, as nominal mental labels, all stored in the
memory and retrieved when they are triggered by observation.
There exists another old question which goes back to Plato,
namely, whether universals have an ideal existence in the infinite.
In our time, Sartre has revived the problem, in modern verbal dress,
that the abstract haunts the concrete as a possibility fixed in the
in-itself which the concrete has to be.
33
Modem science is inclined to stay away from both sets of ques-
tions, apparently under the principle: of which you cannot speak,
you must remain silent (or in less refined wording: it seems a
waste of time to ask foolish questions which cannot be answered) .
Our methods of abstractions are very old procedures of all
sciences, dating back to their origins thousands of years ago. They
still rule supreme today, especially in natural science. Our special-
ists consider hardly anything else as scientifically permissible.
I like to call this abstractive process a classical method. The
term is used here in various meanings. Abstractions are classical
because they work with classifications. They are also classical in
allusion to related movements in literature and art which aimed
at static presentations and which were opposed to the Romantics,
who preferred images of processes under subjective impressions. I
also like to call the abstract method classical because it was al-
ready used in very early periods of history and because it has re-
mained a time-honored procedure.
Actually, we have so far dealt only with the first set of steps,
with the analytical work done by abstractions. We have only hinted
at the combinations. To understand fully the force and success of
static fragmentation, we must turn to the next step, to the methodic
unification of such partial thought-images.
C. Combination of Abstractions: The Second Step of Classical
Classifications
In chemistry and in psychotherapy, every analysis is undertaken
for a later synthesis. Every step of separation keeps in mind this
goal of unification. This attitude applies to all abstractions and we
must supplement what we have said so far. We do not just select
and divide. We must also combine again into mental images of
relations some of the fragments which belong actually to a parti-
cular whole. Every abstraction involves great omissions. The
residues must be taken into consideration, at least to some small
extent, by adding a few other mental images of other isolated ele-
ments. We have separated these for closer inspection and for a
34
more detailed look.8 Our very purpose requires some pulling to-
gether of severed particles.
The abstracted isolation was only temporary and was always
aimed at certain limited unifications. The classical scientific method
abstracts elements from a particular whole and then conjoins such
abstracted images with other such images to arrive at higher com-
binations so as to see relations and structures among the frag-
ments.4 In this work, the investigators search for self-evident pat-
terns, for skeletons which convey a clearer understanding. Every
abstraction means not only an inclusion, but also exclusions con-
sisting of suppressed pre-suppositions. Our process of unification
tries to restore artificially, to some small extent, the composition in
a static imagery.
Compared with the abundance of the real event, this unification
will still end in a very incomplete presentation. It will still, after
all combining has been done, remain necessarily selective and re-
stricted. After all, adding one and a few other ones can never total
to infinity. Our combinations of abstractions will never restore the
whole reality, but they will cover a larger area.
As abstractions are joined by systematic hierarchies, we arrive
at reductions of reality or appearances. The combination of ab-
stractions draws advantages from simplifications which omit vast
residues. Through such cutting away and cutting through, struc-
tures, which otherwise would not be visible, are pictured. We
strive for a transparency of limited knowledge where, otherwise,
a whole particular appearance would remain opaque.
The action of combining and joining has already begun before
we start to place independent abstractions together. The very act
of abstracting already involves combinations. The act of abstrac-
tion means to conjoin fragmented elements of one particular event
with similar elements of other events in recognition of a mutual
class-membership.
To make this clear, let us return to our earlier example of the
birth of a child. We said, for instance, that when a baby is born a
statistician marks a column. He could, however, do this only by
conjoining the membership of this newborn baby with the proper
35
-------------------
class of babies born during the_ current calendar year.
Language, as well as thinking, moves in vertical classes and
conjoins in horizontal classifications or subsumptions under mem-
berships. Every single abstraction is preconditioned by the selec-
tion of universals, which we know from concepts of previous ex-
perience and which join together similar elements from similar
events. When we abstract, in our first set of steps, we also combine.
Most often, the abstractions will conjoin parts of events that are
not similar in general, but have only certain small characteristics
in common. When I say that a rose bush has leaves, I join it not
only with other rose bushes but with big families of plants.
Since understanding can apparently dissect only in connection
with conjunctions, and can conjoin only in connection with separa-
tions, we can better phrase our previous statements. We should
say that we abstract elements from a particular entity in a process
that is preponderantly reductive in quality. And we should qualify
this by saying that by combinations we mean processes which
handle abstracted elements through concepts of grouping having
some abstracted elements.
This interaction of fragmenting and joining builds levels of ab-
stracts in every branch of science, in precise orders of rank and
hierarchy, moving from lower levels to abstracted higher steps and
from there to still higher levels, joining on every height a number
of abstracts in horizontal directions. Fido is a member of the class
"poodle"; higher up, "dog"; higher up, "mammal"; higher up,
"animal".
Every branch of science consists of a particular system of ab-
stractions, selected and built under a specific set of selections. We
distinguish sciences by such identifying characteristics. For in-
stance, in mathematics, magnitude was-at least originally-the
decisive concern, to the neglect of all other types of elements of
complex events. In legal science, we collect rules for the behavior
of men which are enforced under the monopoly of the State. Sim-
ilarly, we see that in every field there is a carefully limited system
of selections in observation, concepts and methods, under a specific
direction.
36
Knowledge begins with the apprehensions of existing objects in
very specific and selected partial uniformities and differences.
Thought and judgement arrange and manipulate such selections
under selected rules.
In all such hierarchic orders of levels, our systems of abstrac-
tion start at the bottom, with so-called atomic facts-descriptions
which cannot be reduced any further. Usually, these axioms can
·neither be proved nor disproved by methods of knowledge. Scien-
tists are fond of speaking of assumptions. They mean that we have
not any evidence of their reality; that we just posit them, tenta-
tively, as if they were proper images of appearances. However, in
spite of all caution with verbal terms--which reminds us a bit of
·children's games of "let's pretend"-scientists must often act on
the belief that reality or appearances come mighty close to the
images. The unproven foundations are sustaining, after all, pretty
high buildings with a lot of activity in them.
From these so-called atomic images--the lowest abstracted units
·-we move higher and higher. What actually in every case should
be the lowest irreducible image or the highest abstraction can in
reality hardly be determined with absolute certainty. In every in-
vestigation we stop rather arbitrarily somewhere. Our problems
decide this for us. We go just as far down or up as we need to in
order to arrive at proper solutions.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith may be one unit as a married couple, but
can be two units as human beings. The tree means the smallest
reducible unit to a forester, but the protons in the atoms of its woods
may represent its basic unit for a physicist. The questions which
we ask and the scientific system under which we ask them will
determine the scope of our investigations.
Usually, a scientist, as well as an artist, will start somewhere in
the middle levels of his hierarchy, neither completely at the bottom
rtor completely at the top. He will find there his problems and will
also look there first for his answers; then he will work his way
gradually up and down and sideways.
Actually, we also live with intellectual hierarchic systems outside
of science. We are in their midst every day and every hour. When-
37
ever we plan an action, or try to understand some occurrence or
form verbal expressions, we are moving within abstracts, up and
down and sideways. My wife has her birthday. I know she likes
jewelry. So, I look for a ring in a store, give it to her, and am
rewarded by the expected joy.
One of the most spectacular combinations of abstractions is one
that demonstrates that even movement can be simulated. This
has been done technically, for instance, in the movie camera. A
camera producss the illusion of movements by taking a sequence
of different still pictures, one after the other, each arresting a dif-
ferent instance of the fluid reality.
In the end, all these static images, which are isolated abstrac-
tions from an observed reality, are run through the projector. There
they are blurred together synthetically on a screen. Miraculously,
the many separate abstractions are now combined to produce the
illusion of a fluid movement.
What a movie camera does exists apparently in similar fashion
in mathematics. In differentials and integrals, Newton and Leibniz
and their successors have designed methods, through calculus,
which plot instants on co-ordinates, with the result that static points
of reference are added together to give a stimulation of movement.
Motion is broken down into static fragments and is then re-pro-
duced by a combination of these static abstractions. Modern re-
search and modern engineering appear to use refined methods of
such types of mathematics as tools, placing innumerable compu-
tations on computers for an analysis and a simulation of fluid
processes.
This is the utmost accomplishment which abstractions and com-
binations of abstractions can reach. Even so, systems of abstrac-
tions will leave large portions of reality outside of the pictures and
will disregard enormous bulks of residues. It is a necessary part of
our classical methods to consider only small fractions of reality
as it appears and not to take into consideration large chunks of
reality. To make something clear, the explanations have to accen-
tuate essentials and to remove and throw away obscurities.
Binoculars are aimed at a spot in the far distance, bringing a
38
small area into sharp focus and enlarging it. At the same time, all
the surroundings are left outside of the angle of view. An orderly
collection of pictures of this type may be placed together and may
produce a combination of images which, again, cover a larger area.
But the effects of such a sum, an over-simplified map, is still a far
cry from the view a human being would have of the real landscape
if he could see it all in one sweep.
D. Sampling and Verification
In observations and in factual verifications, it becomes an im-
portant aspect of our methods of selection and abstractions that
we can only rarely take a look at all similar elements of existing
particular events.
In an unusually favorable case, we could find out exact age
groups, service years and annual salaries of all employees of a
certain corporation at a certain date-which would be helpful for
a computation of life insurance premiums under a group contract.
But such situations, in which we have direct personal access to all
facts, are very rare. In most cases, human observation cannot pos-
sibly cover all similar elements of all relevant events. Mostly, we
can look personally at only a small number of related phenomena
out of a vast multitude.5 We must be content to observe and con-
sider a few particular factors, and we must hope that all other
members, or at least most of them, will be similar or will behave
in similar fashion.
The proper selection of samples becomes here important and
will determine how reliable our verifications and the bases of our
general abstractions really are. Complicated techniques for sam-
pling have been developed.6 In most of these procedures, the mate-
rial is taken entirely at random, by chance. Obviously, this will
only work when we can be safely sure that all particulars are
similar, or at least close enough to each other. Refinements provide
for breakdowns of events into groups and for selections by ran-
dom out of each group. Further refinements will then apply weights
to such mixtures. In other words, the selected material has to be
39
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
representative. It must be taken from homogeneous bulks, or at
least from homogeneous subdivisions, and must not likely be sub-
ject to fluctuations within this whole or sub-whole. It is obvious
that all sampling is built on quite a number of assumptions which
may sometimes tum out to be wrong. Whenver we deal with
sampled selections, we are also exercising anti-selections and may
overlook relevant factors or cut ourselves off from important in-
formation which may come from portions of the whole.
Results of sampling are, therefore, to be used with caution. If
they go against common sense, we had better take a second look.
These few remarks should indicate that we are dealing here with
-a field which is far from being precise and which is greatly influ-
enced by subjective judgements. We often encounter strange sur-
prises. Certain life insurance companies, for instance, used mortal-
ity statistics which were developed for the total population of
the United States. When they wanted to compare their own actual
-experience of collected data from their customers, they noticed
that more people survived in the earlier and middle age groups.
-This evidence proved to be correct. The insurance companies and
their actuaries-their probability mathematicians-arrived at the
explanation that people who can afford life insurance are a select
group of higher income earners who take better care of their health.
Sampling is obviously important in all social investigations, in
pools of populations for market research, for political elections,
·and in almost all statistics.7 With certain variations, sampling is
needed and used in almost every other field-in natural sciences
'and in daily life. We have no choice but to infer constantly, from
our few observations, to generalizations. We must trust constantly
·that all elements, or at least most of them, will be similar to the
few which we are able to observe.
· · Most of the content of our knowledge is based on assumptions
which we cannot prove and on observations which we accept, trust-
-ing in the reliability of other people. We must admit that everyone
of us can verify, in person, very little during his lifespan. We are
:able to see merely a few samples in a few fields and must rely, for
the vast remainders, on reports which may be oral, written or
printed. On top of this, we will often prefer the report of another
person to our own, even if we could produce a personal observa-
tion.8 Imagine yourself standing on the bridge of a ship. The officer
on duty points to the horizon and says that there is a lighthouse.
You look, but do not see it; however, you accept the fact that the
trained eye of an experienced sailor will be more reliable than
your own observations. .
In our time of specialization and separation of labor, we are
surrounded by such situations. We must use verifications and
statements which are made by other experts in related or unrelated
fields; we need such data in our work and for our opinions. Even
if we had direct access to samples we would often neither be
equipped nor have the time or experience to check facts or re-
lated conclusions.
Whenever I read a book by a historian or listen to a lecture on.
data-processing or wonder about Einstein's formulas, I can only
follow accepted opinions and must have faith in the credentials of
authorities. We live with trust in other members of society who
simultaneously trust us.
So, we live on deeper and deeper levels by means of selections
which we make directly or indirectly by choosing authorities in
whom we have faith. We sample, but we verify extremely little,
even if we pride ourselves on being very critical, and we use con-
stantly the vast store of information which is communicated to us
by armies of experts. This reliance on sampling, done by ourselves
but mostly by others, and on communication of verifications, adds
another facet to the plurality of our world of knowl~dge which can
exist and grow only in a combined effort of diverse people.
Chapter IV
OUR MENTAL FACULTIES
KNOWLEDGE exists, obviously, through the faculties of our mind.
We must distinguish here carefully between the products of mental
efforts-the known-and the processes of knowing. Observations,
thoughts and judgments, as they are created by the human mind.
gain a separate existence and a systematic entity. We live with such
products as they are arranged. HusserP places emphasis on this
difference between the subjective process and the objective results
of our intellectual endeavors-he uses the term "noeses" for the
mental effort and "noema" for the accomplished concepts. Husser!
stresses, in this connection, that there is a strong interrelation be-
tween both fields. For our clarification of methods of knowledge,
we will look at both aspects and will separate them only as far
as this appears useful.
A. Limits of Knowledge
It is generally accepted that science, the highest form of human
knowledge, means a systematic ordering of a disorderly content. In
our time, science wants to be careful and modest. It sorts and
orders only so far as this can be done safely, and leaves all the
rest to disorder. With this attitude, modern scientists are usually
not in the mood to speculate about substances or properties of
events. Such a search appears futile and would be beyond men's
scope of understanding. Science, rather, limits itself to recognizing
42
reiations and structureS-Iilote precisely, functional relations be-
tween variables, preferably relations which can be defined in some
unit of measurement.
To some extent, we can trace this attitude very far back. From its
beginnings, scientists have considered as the bases of science the
so-called axioms, meaning elements which cannot be reduced any
further. These foundations are simply taken for granted and are
experienced immediately. We can observe them, we can describe
them, and we can form a corresponding thought-image-the con-
cept. In conceptual constructions of thoughts, science starts, simi-
larly, from postulates which can also be stated as concepts but
cannot be reduced any further. Scientific methods always begin
with such unknowables or reduce things to such unknowables, and
then build total systems from that point by developing conclusions
and different deductions from such conclusions.
Knowing, under such an arrangement, becomes an observable
exercise of skills and of capacities instead of a secret operation
of hidden entities. Or, more precisely, knowing is the observable
portion of an iceberg, while the unknowable portions of it remain
hidden under the water.
This trend of science goes back to Aristotle and was cultivated
by Descartes, Hume and Kant. Their so-called scepticism and
criticism placed trust in the observer and distrust in the observed
reality. Descartes2 used the example that we assume the gravity of
heavenly bodies but do not know the nature of gravity or its princi-
ples, and that the same may be said of the vacuum or of atoms,
of heat and of cold. David Hume8 stated that we do not have any
impressions of substances, or of matter or of the mind since we
can smell or touch none of them. We can only be aware of rela-
tions between actions and motives which conjoin events.
Immanuel Kant4 gave the sharpest wording to such opinions.
According to him, we cannot know how things really are apart
from their appearances, which means the sum of our impres-
sions. It seems impossible to ask how things look when they cannot
be looked at. We move only from an awareness that things do
appear to an expectation that they will appear again under certain
43
,qm.9itions. With this view, the subject becomes the only carrier of
all objectivity.
Within such restraints, modern science, or at least natural sci-
:ence, has apparently done extremely well. Nobody knows or cares,
for instance, what electricity really is, but we have gone far in
achieving the finest electrical functions and manipulations. Such
.knowledge has made it possible to harness electrical energy for
human purposes.
Here, in our investigation of the processes of knowledge within
the faculties of the human mind, we have to live with a similar
attitude. No one knows, and in all probability no one will ever
know, what thoughts really are or where they come from. Nobody
knows or seems to care which substances the nerves of our senses
really have and how they actually produce sensations. We do not
know where or what our memory actually is or how it really func-
tions physiologically. Medical science is not even in a position to
explain physiologically how our eyes produce pictures outside of
our bodies or how our ears hear sounds which we experience ex-
ternally.
When we tum to methods of human knowledgei we act scientif-
ically: we deal' mainly with relations and structures, just as science
does in any other area. Here, we start also with a selected area of
events. We also work with a few chosen elements of selected ob-
jects, applying observations, thoughts and judgements. Here, in
our specific area, we will also build abstractions and combinations
of abstractions; we will also arrive at statements which should be
verified or which should, at least, be proved indirectly.
In our scientific approach to methods of knowledge, we are
amazed that our literature reports very few controlled experiments,
very few statistics, and hardly any examples of sampling. The
explanation may be offered that the underlying facts should be
obvious. The evidence could be considered the property of common
sense--a mixture of sense and understanding-and of common ob-
.servation, so that there would be no need for further confirmations.
While such a situation seems unusual among scientists, it could
be argued that it is not a weakness but may be. a source of
44
strength. Every reader and worker~the layman and the specialist:
--should be able to verify personally most of his facts.· Everybody ·
lives in knowledge, and we may here be in one of the few fields
where we do not have to rely on remote experts. It could be argued
that everybody spending time and effort on theories of knowledge
is moving on familiar grounds. We know already, somehow and
maybe vaguely, the territories to which we are drawing intellectual
maps. All we need would be some guidance, some systematic order-
ing of familiar material, and some insight which would light up
easily. Then, certain relations, structures and patterns should be-
come clear.
In this vein, it could be said that knowledge concerns all men
and that its techniques must more or less be the property of all
men. In such a situation, the formal working orders should reveal
themselves easily to every average person and not just to a spe;..
cialist, and not just through special experiments or observations.
Such arguments are supported, from another angle, by the thesis
that it is extremely difficult to design controlled experiments for
isolated elements in any cultural science, especially in the complex
field of methods of knowledge. I found· as one of very few .such
efforts, a report on simple experimental work with cleverly de-
signed wooden blocks for an investigation of relations between
thoughts and words.5 This one set of sketchy experiments, done
on a small scale, had, however, a very devastating effect. It proved
quickly and definitely that the repeated claims of language philo-
sophers were wrong and that we could distinguish between thoughts
and verbal expressions, on all age levels. '
The results from one simple set of experiments. may urge a
second thought on experiments in general, as far as methods of.
knowledge are concerned. It may also force us to consider again
whether something is wrong in the general speculative mood about
methods of knowledge. Our field is actually in dire need of getting
out of the complacency of un-verified general discussions. Our;
trust. in common sense and common knowledge ball. obviously
gone too far;
It must be repeated-what we stated in Chapter 1-that theories
45
- - - - - - - - - - -
of knowledge and values have to turn to verification if they want
to grow. It is high time we became concerned about specific proof,
factual proof, in actual performance, for principles which are
claimed in our theories. Too many statements are being made which
refer to facts belonging to other fields and scientific branches with-
out proper corroboration by specialists. It happens too often that
our theories misstate or misunderstand what proper experts could
easily correct. It is high time we establish proper communications
and public relations with scientists of other branches who use
methods of knowledge and values-or are at least potential cus-
tomers.
Returning to our methods of knowledge, we must remain aware
of natural boundaries that are built into human faculties. Knowl-
edge, wholly or partly assured, including the world of reason,
can exist only within a more or less narrow scope, beginning with
foundations which are unknown and ending with unknowns. A
typical example of this statement can be found in chemistry. Com-
pounds were reduced to a certain number of elements which could
not be reduced any further and had to be accepted as axioms. There
remained eighteen such entities. It then became possible to deter-
mine these elements quantitatively by atomic weights and to bring
them, in this way, in relation to each other. It also became possible
to determine compounds quantitatively by weights of elements.
From here on, scientists moved into the realm of hypothesis. By
conceptual constructs, it was assumed that every element consisted
of atoms and that these atoms were small orderly systems of electric
charges which orbited around each other. In this approach, the
formerly irreducible atom of a chemical element was reduced to
physically conceived entities. Again, here we arrived, through
hypothesis, at a final axiom and irreducible entity with which
knowledge had to stop.
It will be the task of this chapter and of the following chapters
to define the dimensions of knowledge-where it starts and where
it ends-and to look at the mechanics of knowledge. We know with-
in the confines of ignorance and we believe on the basis of a kernel
of knowledge. We all sit on a pier, as it were, looking out on an
46
ocean which vanishes into invisibility in the distance. Better tele-
scopes of all kinds will gradually permit us to see more. But we
must remain modestly aware of the fact that some borders will
always enclose human beings as long as they live on earth. We can
be highly grateful that our cups are partly filled, and that they con-
tinue to be filled slightly more as time goes on. It is surely awe-in-
spiring to think how far man, in all his frailty, has gone. However, it
would be an illusion of grandeur to claim, as the rationalists and
some of their relatives love to do, that all we have to do is wait
and science will eventually discover everything and so become God-
like-all knowing and all-informing.
In spite of all the extensions of knowledge we are able to achieve.,
men will never be able to discard the unknown axioms and to see
all the way to the end of creation or of human nature-the cause
of all life and the complete determinations of men. We will always
live on an island of truth surrounded by wide and stormy waters.
Every new solution has always disclosed new problems.
B. Perceptions: Our Sensual Experience6
Whatever we know of the world around us seems to arrive
first and directly through our senses. We see and hear, we smell
aiid taste. This sounds very simple, but it is actually quite involved.
Whatever we know of the world around us seems to arrive
in processed form. Every observation occurs as description and
classification, which are intermingled with sensual impressions. If
we were to speak of pure facts, we would have to isolate the mere
sensual elements and imagine them in purity. In such a state, sen-
sual facts would be vague and unindentified. (It seems that some
modem painters are trying to convey this pictorially. Their blots
and splashes present an undifferentiated aesthetic continuum. If we
were to try to visualize factual sensual data in this way, we would
find that they can be only the raw material of knowledge and can
never convey any recognition.)
We speak of "sensations" when we refer to such undifferentiated
products of our senses. The usual term "perception" goes, however,
47
--~---·----------
much further. It includes mental activities which complete the sen-
sual impressions. It usually covers, also, principles of reason which
guide the form of sensations.
Henri Bergson, actually an existentialist, uses the term "per-
ception" in a still wider meaning. To him, our bodily sensations
are only reflections of something external. He distinguishes from
our internal products such corresponding outside "perceptions"
as the parts of external things. In his view, perceptions are parts
of processes rather than parts of ourselves.7
On the other extreme, doubts were raised, mainly by Descartes,
Hume and Kant, as to whether we can be sure at all of any external
world. To them, all external objects are accessible only as con-
structs of the perceiver8 in a world of images which are produced
as appearances.
Here, in our discussion of sensual perception, this would raise
the question whether things appear as they really are or whether
they appear as our stimulated sense organs picture them.
We may safely leave such problems unresolved for our present
investigation. Most of us will believe, or will at least assume, that
we live in some external existence which consists of a relation of
observer to object. If an extreme subjectivist should deny this, he
could still, for the sake of our discussion, accept our statements
about processes of individual perception. He would simply have to
translate our remarks about external reality to another level of
subjective individual sensations and to phenomena which are pro-
ducts of our sensations.
Most people will not go so far, yet will accept as an observation
that all observing men are part of a universal reality. Whenever I
move a chair physically in my room, my sensual impressions
change. There must be a connection of some sort between the
metaphysical reality and the phenomena, even if my perception
may give me only a partial picture. If this were not so, science
could hardly dare to make any valid observations or predictions.
Every scientist actually lives, whatever he may say in principle,
under tlte expectation that there is some similarity between our
impressions and our actual external existence.9
48
The problems of sensual perceptions were originally discussed.
by philosophers in the framework of their total ideologies. We have
mentioned already Descartes, Hume, and Kant~ In the course of
time more and more special branches have peeled off from philo-'
sophy and have taken over investigations of their own. This also
happened to perception, which moved over into "psychology", a
field which we must carefully distinguish from psychotherapy.
The original explanation of perceptions, especially under Hume,
was that certain external stimuli affect our sensual organs and that
different sensations are received by different nerves. Every nerve
end registers, according to this view, just one type of stimuli. From
a red ball which flies through the air, one nerve will experience the
redness, another one will see the roundness, and a third will
register the movement. Our total vision of an event becomes, then,
a superstructure built by mental associations out of all these atomic
sensations.
Gestalt psychology attacked this opinion and stated that we are
given wholes of things in one direct, total sensual impression.10 Not
content to let the statement rest there, the Gestalt people added that
this total impression is formed somewhere in the cortex of our
brairt. What applies to Hume's view of many specialized nerves as
well as to the Gestalters' statement about the cortex is that both
of them are without a shred of evidence. Both theories trespass,
apparently, the limitations of modem science.
A later school of Functionalism has stressed that perception re-:
quires a participation of the observer, a willed preparedness to look
in order to see, and a willed process of identifications. This makes
perception a mental activity.U Perception is not considered any
more a passive mechanical response to a stimulus. Before we can
see, we must look, and while we see we must identify, classify and
interpret in order to be aware of what we are seeing. Perception
goes out to meet the environment; this activity utilizes the physico-
chemical processes of the senses, but is not identical with them.
I look at Fido, our neighbor's black poodle, running down the
street. I see "him" only if I have known Fido before, and only if
I know what a "poodle" is, what a "dog" is, what a "street" looks
49
like and wbat "running" consists of.
This means that with sensual impressions, I must obviously
employ a skill of selection, of immediate identification, of classifi-
cation and interpretation, all built around past experiences. When-
ever I use my senses I use at the same time concepts of thoughts or
memories which I have built into myself very gradually. I must
have started to do so in the first year of my life and I must have
developed all this from my subconscious-from the irrational
layers-since the conscious levels were not yet there. I have built
my skills under the influence of my surroundings-people who
taught me and set examples which I could imitate, and things to
which I learned to react. The seed of perception must have been
in me. I had to grow it. Perception is truly an interaction of many
aspects-of internal efforts and external objects.
Functionalism is apparently on the right track. In perception,
a vast input is processed and re-assembled and stripped of every-
thing that appears irrelevant under selection. We control the input,
not only the output.
To complicate the process a bit more, we find that perception
is intermingled with memory-images, which we constantly retrieve
in order to complete, guide and interpret our impressions. The re-
sult of every observation, at least to some extent, moves, then,
back from perception into the memory so as to be available for
later use. (Since our mysterious faculty of memory affects not only
perception, we will have a closer look at it in its own context at the
end of this chapter.)
In our process of perception, we encounter still another com-
plication and condition. There have to be not only a subject and an
object, but also a third medium between the two of them. We need
light for illumination so as to see and airwaves for sound so as to
hear. Whenever a required medium is missing, we remain in noth-
ingness and cannot perceive.
Science has yet to offer any sensible explanation about how we
see images outside ourselves as projections in separate space. Our
senses provide us with an immediate external world which appears
apart from us; and they do not give us an internal imagery which
50
remains subjective. There is an obvious interaction from us to the
outside and not just from the outside towards us.
Our skills of perceiving include also the ability to make cor-
rections within the framework of experience. For instance, my wife
comes along the street towards me and I never doubt that she re-
mains the same size, although the image of her starts small in the
distance and becomes gradually larger as the relativity of our posi-
tions towards each other changes.
Modern theories of relativity lead to other intellectual correc-
tion of perceptions. If two explosions occur exactly at the same time
at points which are eight miles apart, an observer will hear them
at the same time only if he is stationed close to mid-point between
both places. As soon as he is stationed closer to one explosion, he
will hear that one earlier, while a person who remained closer to
the other explosion will confirm that the first one occurred later.
This shows that space-time relations of observers have to be con-
sidered; this alone should caution us greatly against too much re-
liance on mere sensual verifications of theories.
When we deal with observations of very small entities we en-
counter Heisenberg's law of uncertainty, which states that the
measuring mechanism will always influence slightly what is being
measured and will make it impossible, for this reason, to ever
arrive at precise measurements. To give a simple example: The
wire of an ampere meter which records an electric current absorbs,
through resistance, a small portion of that current.
H we now turn our attention to the subject-the observer, who
exercises, after all, the functional skills of perception-it appears
obvious that all human experience will be limited by the boundaries
of human faculties. There are animals whose eyes are less de-
veloped than others' and who will see less. On the other hand,
there are, for instance, dogs who smell things that we will never
notice and who hear sounds that are beyond our reception. We
cannot see ultra-red or ultra-violet, but we do see a lot of other
colors within the borders of the spectrum.
To some extent, such borders can be extended. The sensual or-
gans can adjust to various levels of intensities of stimuli. The pupils
51
- - - - - - - - - - -----
of the eyes can be slightly contracted to sharpen focus or to reduce
illumination.
Men have also invented mechanical instruments which increase
the scope of perception. The telescope and the microscope are
simple examples. Beyond this man-the toolmaker, the homo
faber-has made gadgets which translate inaccessible data into
forms which we can sense and measure. Invisible electric currents
move indicators on gauges so that we can read voltages or amperes.
In spite of all such extensions, and in spite of the probability
that more will be invented, we must some day reach final borders
beyond which further expansion will not be possible. We can only
construct aids to human faculties; we cannot change our human
organs into God-like powers of recognition.
While we have so far looked at perception as such, in isolation,
we must realize that in the process of knowledge and in daily life
all other faculties are constantly intermingled with it.The next
part of our chapter deals with concepts and will discuss Kant's
contribution to the recognition of the role which thoughts play in
all observation. He has stressed that we must first have guiding
intellectual principles for experience. These intellectual categories
provide, according to Kant, the form in which all events appear to
us, while senses account for the content.
We may now summarize. Sensual experience as such is not
purely sensual, and it is not a passive, mechanical reception. It is
an activity, a human skill, intermingled with non-sensory abilities
-namely, with thoughts aud conceptual classifications, with mem-
ory and with language-identifications, and with selective judge-
ments. All sensual images are produced by such interaction.
In this situation, perception is just a part of total experience.
Every human being, insofar as he is sane and healthy, is convinced
of the truth of what he sees, hears and smells. Everybody needs
such subjective assurance for a normal life and for proper function-
ing within the world. This subjective assurance is anchored in our
total recognition. Sensual verification remains an important part,
but cannot be singled out of the complex of all mental and emo-
tional faculties.
52
The human organism not only reacts to environment, it eats and
drinks environment, fights and mates environment, burrows and
builds in environment. Even in merely observing environment, it
modifies, dismantles, analyzes and re-assembles after its own
fashions, converting mere noise into symbolic information.
We live in plurality and interaction, in human faculties and in
perceptions. Even senses have no magic claim on special evidence..
Perceptions have such claim-not more and not less-only in
the totality of all mental faculties which encompass percepts, con-
cepts and judgments, as well as subjects and external objects, or
individuals and society.
C. Concepts: Our Thoughts and Our Reasoning
Thoughts, to which we now tum, may be considered in isolation
without any sense data. I think of a dragon and of a knight fighting
it. Or better, and more prosaically, I add four and four to a total
of eight.
Usually, however, we will find thoughts and percepts conjoined;
or, our thoughts, if they are pure, will be directed so as to prepare
them for an intermingling with sense data and judgements. Con-
cepts without perception or judgements are empty, and pure per-
ceptions are blind. In the end, almost every problem and state-
ment becomes a question of "fact and law'' (to use a lawyer's
language). Observation, thought and judgement have to appear in
interaction. Our total activity of thought is identified by concepts.
When we look closely at both sides-at the process of thinking·and
at its products, we must again realize that we do not at all know
how thoughts are physiologically created in us. Again, we must
start with an unknown axiom-the atomic event. From here on,
we systematically investigate relations, structures, and combinations
of these events-in-themselves, which our intellect places before us.
We are able to describe the atomic event of a concept and we are
able to draw conclusions and deductions in all directions. A person
may use a television set properly even though he does ·not know
its electronic nature; indeed, he may even satisfactorily engineer
such a set. When we speak of intellectual faculties, we must dis-
53
tinguish carefully the various levels on which thoughts operate. On
another level, our intellectual faculties break a concept of observa-
tion into abstracted components. We take common properties from
different particular entities and form a general mental picture of
similar elements. We abstract or analyze when we see churches,
ranch houses and skyscrapers together as buildings. Or we arrive
at circles when we consider wheels, bracelets and automobile tires.
In our time12 certain thoughts-the concepts-are carefully
separated into concepts by intuition and concepts by postulates.
The intuitional concepts denote something that can be sensed,
while concepts by postulation introduce unobservable entities and
relations. When I speak of blue and mean the color of a flower, I
am using a concept by intuition. But when I speak of blue as a
wavelength in the color spectrum, I am referring to a postulate.
To some extent, intuitional concepts may be inducted from events,
while postulatory concepts are always deductive constructions.
The distinctions between intuition and postulates have been
broken down further. Concepts by intuition-the thought-images
of reality or of appearances-are directed at a constant flux of
events, at a continuum which is at the same time particular and
unified. We look here at a differentiated continuum. If we isolate,
in our thought-images the differences, we arrive at our old clas-
sical abstractions. When we concentrate in a thought-image on the
continuum as such, apart from differences, we gain an existential-
istic view. We may also investigate one difference within the total
context of the continuum-within its surroundings and all its
interactions-and this will give us a concept which physics would
call a field theory.
Concepts by postulate are designed in specific theory. We turn
here to unobservable entities, relations or structures. This may
mean postulates by imagination-which cannot be found in our
world of senses but can still be pictured. Atom models would
serve as good examples. Or we may use postulational concepts by
intellection which can neither be sensed nor be presented in an
intellectual image. Modern mathematical theories would belong
here, or Aristotle's theory of the unmoved mover.
54
On all levels of conceptual activity, we find irrational emotional
judgements or decisions which form an order. We find also that
the revolving particular totality of our recognition may be entered
at any spot. It may often be convenient to enter it at the a-priori
level of concepts-by-postulates and to look from there for intu-
itional concepts and for corresponding perceptual verifications.
Whenever we follow this order, we must not overlook the possibility
that the observational a-posteriori experience of our past will
influence selections and recognitions of abstract forms and will
suggest to us, consciously or subconsciously, tentative postulated
solutions and theories. All conceptual guesses are educated guesses
-educated by the total personality of people who are working with
knowledge.
The development of levels of thought in children has been
clarified in careful experimental work by a Russian psychologist,
L. S. Vygotsky.13 He contends that children start to develop vague
thought-images or particular observations at the age of three years.
Between the ages of seven and fourteen, this image complex dis-
tinguishes itself into concepts of the general properties of elements
which particular events have in common. Finally, under education
in schools, the elementary concepts are placed in conceptual hier-
archies and positioned in order. What Vygotsky shows as genetic
development in the child throws light on the conceptual functioning
of the adult who lives on all three levels simultaneously.
David Hume14 claimed that our thoughts can never exceed our
original stock of perceptions. However, he included under such
original material internal impressions, which include emotions and
passions. So, according to Hume, thoughts deal with more than per-
cepts; they also deal with internal experiences. Even so, the state-
ment appears rather narrow. Abstractions may use as objects other
abstractions, the so-called secondary observations.15 In this process
they may lose entirely the traces of original concrete events of
reality or appearance-in concepts by postulates.
While it may appear obvious what we mean by thoughts, it will
still be better to identify their essence a bit closer. Their character
can be identified by an example which we take from mathematics,
55
the proudest child of human reasoning. In geometry, we consider
a triangle as a two-dimensional figure composed of three lines
which intersect at three points, forming there three angles. When
we draw this on paper, every line as it is depicted from the lead of
a pencil must necessarily have a bit of thickness of width, small as
such dimensions may be. However, in our ideal world of mathe-
matics, each of the three lines exists without any bulk. Geometry
says so. It assumes bulklessness and does not care how the impure
human drawings actually behave.
In antiquity, Plato speculated that such ideas, of bulklessness,
exist really in an eternal realm and that we can experience them
immediately in a state of mental purity, just as we are able to see
concrete objects in earthly bulk. According to Plato, these ideas
are forms or creative powers which transform potentialities, in-
herent in prime matter, into particular objects in this world.
Even Immanuel Kant, in all his suspicions against knowledge of
eternal things-in-themselves, felt that synthetic judgements in mathe-
matics were as certain as pure concepts.16
Today, science likes to downgrade the eternal correspondence of
absolute certainty in concepts. Today, science looks at idealizations
as merely models-as sets of assumptions that are abstracted by
man and are selectively simplified to a fine degree.
Modem science means by "model" a pattern, a map that is true
within itself and is composed of intellectual images of certain
chosen premises. Correct reasoning draws conclusions from such
premises. On all steps we deal with intentional, subjective over-
simplifications. Even with concepts by intuition there will always
be differences in perceptual concreteness, but the differences will
be small enough that we can neglect them for our intellectual pur-
poses, so that we can safely use the simplified ideas on a less
precise reality. In our conceptual world, we have thus just omitted
individual deviations-the bulk of geometric lines-and we have
done so for clarity and recognition.
This means that idealization-intuitive or postulated- is re-
garded as a subjective construction, an artificial image-building
which can only approximate appearances,17 or certain characteris-
56
tics hidden in appearance. The moment man passes to generaliza-
tions, from history to logic and from time to eternity, he has ex-
changed experience for something artificial, which is more perfect
and more intelligible.
Structures of concepts and their relation to perception were given
thorough consideration by Kant.18 In his critical approach to meta-
physics-against philosophical arguments about freedom of will
or immortality of the soul or the Supreme Being-he turned to an
investigation of the limits of human knowledge. Kant's system is
usually reported under metaphysics. It should, however, be ob-
vious that his statements carry great impact on theories of knowl-
edge; we will, therefore, give him proper consideration here.
Kant's special terminology aims at precise terms for each step.
He regards the totality of external objects as a so-called world of
appearances which exists for us humans only insofar as we can
recognize it through a combination of senses and thoughts. In our
knowledge, we can be sure only of the knowing subject and of his
imagery. The objects-the so-called things-in-themselves-are defi-
nitely not just a result of our fancy or dreams. There must exist
a world of reality behind the appearances. It is this real world
which makes the appearances appear. But while we admit such an
existence, this natural world may just as well not exist for us hu-
mans since we are not able to recognize it. For us, it is beyond
our bounds.
This human world of appearances is ours in knowledge, which
is a combination of thoughts and percepts. All events have form
and content. Our thoughts-the concepts-determine the form, and
the senses, directed by thoughts, determine the content of our
experience.
According to Kant, we know events only by having within us
certain organizing principles and concepts. We possess, first, meth-
ods of knowledge which are built into our human apparatus and
which have to go to work before we approach emanations of ex-
ternal objects. From such prior concepts, we distinguish the sub-
sequent knowledge-a posteriori-which stems from experience
of perception. We look at the landscapes through colored glasses
and cannot remove the lenses.19
57
In the realm of pure concepts, Kant lists four so-called categories
under which we order our thoughts: quantity, quality, relation and
modality.20
When we turn from pure concepts to empirical sensual knowl-
edge, we live again under a-priori concepts which determine in
advance the form of our perception. We have here first, according
to Kant, concepts of space and time-to him purely subjective
conditions under which men experience all percepts. According to
Kant, also, we humans are pre-conditioned by additional conceptual
principles in all our sensual experience. The principles are appli-
cations of the four pure categories.
We mentioned before David Hume's contention that there is
nothing in thought which has not been before in the senses, at least
partially. Kant seems to turn this opinion around: nothing can be
in the senses which was not preconditioned by thought; the reason
is primary--or a-priori.
Closing our report on Kant's contentions, as far as they concern
methods of knowledge, we like to add a few remarks. The precision
of his distinctions between prior forms of thought and posterior
content through senses may have its proper use in the clarification
of some processes and theories. However, even this will remain
true only in a very general way. Whenever we mortals experience
anything, we will find interactions which move and countermove
in all directions; also, from the perceptual contents into the a-priori
forms. The sensual contents help to shape the forms into proper,
integrated adaptations. We think and we sense in unity, in which
form is partly shaped by content and in which content appears
under conceptually pre-selected forms.
In knowledge, we also have to be aware of the inherent things-
in-themselves which are breaking through constantly from irration-
al insights and from necessary assumptions of axioms, even into
the conceptual forms and into the methods themselves. Kant's
careful exclusion of this other-world-beyond-knowledge works only
in the thin air of pure reasoning-and not even there, fully. In
Kant's time one of his faithful followers, the German poet Fried-
rich von Schiller,21 added to Kant's contention that emotions and
58
irrationality shape man's destiny. He pointed in this context to art
as the median realm between the natural and the ideal status.
D. The Memory
This may be as good a place as any in our discussion of human
faculties to add a few words about the memory, that mysterious
ability of ours to store percepts, concepts and emotions of the past
-or better, images of all of them-ever ready for retrieval and
always enriched by the new experiences with which they mingle.
In its work, memory is obviously influenced by many forces, and
also by irrational drives. Memory is selective and prejudiced. Freud
has shown that we forget what we do not want to remember and
that we retain what our emotional ego prefers. The store of mem-
ory is in constant flux around a core.
In spite of its tremendous importance for human functions, we
find very little published about the memory. Obviously, even our
advanced period knows almost nothing about the gift of remem-
bering. We simply do not know how it is produced or where it is
localized. The hypothesis of Gestalt psychologists-that electric
remnants between brain tissues are responsible-has no evidence
to support it and does not lead to any usable conclusions.
The psychological terms of associations also do not make the
problem of memory any clearer. It would be wiser and closer to
the truth to admit that at present we are ignorant in this field. All
we can do is to appreciate memory for its enormous participation
in learning and in all levels of knowledge-in perception and con-
cepts, in judgments and insights, and in the shaping of all the
methods which we apply. Memory, which somehow connects recol-
lections of past events with present awareness, also plays an im-
portant part in all the verifications of science-a rather intangible
element in so-called tangible proofs.22
In identifications and interpretations of memory, past images
and present objects seem, strangely enough, to coincide as one
and do not appear as the conscious matching of two.23
In more recent times, Henri Bergson24 has tried to look closer
59
at memory's strange functions. He does not see any way to locate
it in the cells of the brain. In certain illnesses which involve loss
of memory-amnesia-we do not find, according to Bergson, any
precise physical lesion, but we do encounter abrupt and entire loss
of whole periods of the past. On the other hand, in other disorders
where cerebral portions are physically damaged-in aphasia-we
find that memory still functions-that it is only diminished in in-
tensity. This seems to indicate to Bergson that the mechanics of the
brain insure the working of recollections but do not imprison them
in cells.25
Bergson distinguishes between memory and habits that are
events of instant recognition. Habits are, to him, recollections which
come from the learning of ever repeated lessons. Since repetition
as such could hardly create anything new that was not before in
the original text, Bergson assumes that our minds analyze the ori-
ginal text into fragments, by repetition of parts, and then unite
these fragments, which results in a subconscious storage of ever-
available reactions. The true particular memory of past events
serves, in this way, as a base to habits, and both of them shift
into each other constantly.26
From a given situation, we extract that which is useful in it and
store these portions for eventual later reaction. The memory co-
exists with consciousness, overlaying perceptions with reflections,
and mirroring perception in reflection. We have here again an in-
tegrated fluid process, an intermingling of ideas, observation, emo-
tions and memory, all in turn mingled with emanations from ob-
jects. All this is an organic process and not an assemblage of dis-
continuous multiplicities of fragments.27
The past continues to flow through us in hundreds of channels.
All our sensations, thoughts and emotions are not just of an iso-
lated present moment, but are with us in continuous flow, linking
the total past to the total present.28
This concludes our remarks about mental faculties of knowledge
-the percepts, the concepts, and the memory. We know embarras-
singly little about the physiological causes of any of these faculties.
Observations, even theories, about the bases of our mental opera-
60
tions are extremely meager. There is some hope that one day our
scientists may discover what is still entirely lacking. Human knowl-
edge will always remain limited and we will never be able to enter
certain areas. But the functioning of human faculties should not be
outside of our realm forever.
61
Chapter V
CORRELATIONS OF PERCEPTS
AND CONCEPTS
IN THE preceding chapter we discussed mainly perception and con-
cepts. We now propose to discuss, in more detail, how both may be
arranged and put to work in interaction.
A. Customary Correlations
Everything we investigate will have to be approached either in
historical or in topical order. In an historical system, elements or
subassemblies are described as they occur, in succession of time.
In topical order, we place percepts or concepts in levels of hierar-
chic principles, moving from particulars to universals, or in the
opposite direction, from universals down to elements or particulars.
We may also move sideways from elements of one level to other
elements of the same level.
By such arrangements, we may investigate vertically in depth,
going straight up or down from one level of abstractions to another.
Or we may work horizontally, looking for related elements on the
same abstracted level. This means that we look either for much
or for many, either for multum or for multa.1
In explaining relations between percepts and concepts, we will
often start from sense data selected under conceptual categories
and will move from there to concepts. We match both sets of images
62
with memory, move to a decision in emotional judgment, come to
a ''willing" for action, and observe the result which we store partly
back in memory. While all this happens, we are experiencing most
of it-thoughts as well as observations-in the garb of language.
Or, we may shift the sequence. We can start with a concept, for
instance, an idea which is connected with some image from mem-
ory, and we scan the events around us for similarities which we can
perceive. We may let it rest there. Or, we may start anew at that
very point with a chain of correlated concepts. We may also use
perception and intuition purely, in habits, short-cutting conscious
thought. We said before that such shortcuts happen with almost all
our skills, which are first learned through conscious repetition until
they move down into subconscious abilities.
In such sequences of percepts and concepts, we speak of
"induction" whenever we infer from perceived objects up to con-
cepts, looking for a common denominator in some class or classes
of events. And we use the term "deduction" when we move in the
opposite direction-from an intellectual concept down to other
concepts, or to a correlation in observation.2 Actually, we cannot
separate both methods too exactly, not even in scientific work. The
induction is usually triggered by a problem which will often mean
a question phrased deductively in thought.
Before we start with observations and inductions, we must al-
re.ady have selected a spotlight of investigation in our concepts;
we turn this beam on a narrow area of perceived events. Our per-
ception, therefore, does not mean any more a first step, but al-
ready a second one. (Kant's applied conceptual categories which
govern all perception refer vehemently to this priority of thoughts
in observation.) On the other hand, in deductions we will most
likely select and develop conceptual thoughts under some influence
of previous factual experience and under consideration of how we
can use this on facts. Therefore, our pure reasoning will usually
not be so pure.
Another strong bond between postulated concepts, intuitional
concepts, and perception is established by the requirement of mod-
ern science that a postulated law can only be accepted if it is some-
63
where verified and if certain predictions become factually true.
In our world of thoughts, concepts and percepts, or in any
combination of them, we must be aware of a twofold truth. In the
lofty realm of thought-in the area of intellectual potentialities-
we are bound only by coherence. All that can be required is the
proper structure and connection of statements and conclusions. The
factual world of perception requires more-namely, correspond-
ence. Statements must be confirmed, as certain or probable, or
must at least be confirmable by observations. Whenever we speak
of knowledge and understanding, we must be aware of this twofold
truth. We must insist on coherence of abstractions and conceptual
connections. And we must also look for sensual verification-for
the correspondence.
In the correlation of concepts and percepts, men have always
gained understanding by connecting events under the mechanism of
cause and effect. Originally, a cause meant, in this context, an
active force which worked actually on a passive event and produced
thereby a physical change.3 Descartes, Hume and Kant have raised
serious doubts4 as to whether we can be sure of such forces and
changes. They prefer to speak only of relations: If A and B
happen, C will happen. Science has followed this approach and
sees now in causes merely functions between variables.5
Modern science has in this respect even retreated a bit further.
In physics, Planck's Quantum Theory6 dealt with the behavior of
small particles in thermodynamics. It was not possible any more to
predict precise results for every particle. Starting with the input
of a certain quantity of units, under certain conditions, we would
arrive only at a fraction of that quantity in the resulting output.
The residues would get lost and could not be accounted for. Planck
arrived at a mathematical constant for such predictions.
From certainty of each particle's behavior, we come now to a
fractional probability of the group; we cannot any more be certain
of the individuaF Before Planck, similar probabilities were applied
in insurance, especially in life insurance, under so-called actuarial
or mathematical assumptions. (We cannot know whether the in-
sured Mr. Miller will die at age 55, but we can predict that out of
64
a million human beings who are, like Miller, today 35-years-old,
a certain number will be dead at age 55.) Probabilities, as mathe-
matical fractions, were apparently first advocated by Pascal8 in
investigations of the throwing of dice.
By this kind of probability we mean a frequency ratio of groups
of events; we venture to call this an objective probability. From
this, we must distinguish cases of subjective probability. When we
state that "Dick is probably a happy man" or that "Shakespeare
has probably existed", we deal with events which as such must have
happened or not. Only my judgment is not fully ascertained. I prefer
to call this a subjective probability. Von Mieses has investigated
this realm9 also in mathematical formulas.
Both levels of probability can exist beside each other. In both
probabilities, we deal with situations in which residual factors had
to be neglected. We must concede that such factors may revenge
themselves by distorting a more-or-less small portion of the results,
forcing us to accept the results by ratios of probability.
How far we should go in our striving for more precision by
hunting down residual aspects will often be a pragmatic question
of cash-values. For some purposes, a cruder probability may be
sufficient. Sometimes, we may n~ed finer results and may have to
use other methods or develop new theories.
By adopting probabilities, modern science has succeeded in
building openly its failures into statements. Theories correspond
now better to experience, and predictions will become more reliable.
B. The Hypothesis Compared with Fiction and Analogy
In the history of science, especially within branches of natural
science, the emphasis has shifted from deductions over inductions
to a combination of both. Modern science relies greatly on infer-
ences which are neither abstract nor concrete. Science rests on basic
axioms and postulates which often cannot be perceived at all and
cannot be verified sensually. All they have in their favor is that
they support theories which explain other facts. Such entities are,
for that reason and with that justification, "scientifically" assumed.
65
Reichenbach calls such factors-like protons or radiowaves-by a
special term added to concrete and abstract; he names them illata.10
We enter here the field of the hypothesis, which is a combination
of induction and deduction. Again, we start usually with a specific
question; for an answer, we observe carefully certain selected situa-
tions. We abstract and induct relevant factors.11
Our dilemma, which makes us turn to the hypothetical proce-
dure, is that intellectual explanations which we are able to propose
cannot be verified directly by observed facts. We cannot prove that
the universals that we have abstracted from certain events can
actually be found in a true set of facts. So, we turn to an indirect
proof. We deduce our explanation down into other consequences
and then try to prove the conclusions.
To describe the hypothetical method a bit more precisely: after
we have perceptibly experienced the problematic facts and the facts
which surround the problem, we move to a level of concepts by
intuition-the thought-images which denote elements that can be
sensed. We describe, identify and classify our elements there con-
ceptually. Then we move to concepts by postulation-intellectual
explanations which cannot be sensed but can be grasped either by
images or else purely intellectually. Such a reasonable explanation
must permit predictions of recurring events. The theory is theoreti-
cally developed into postulated conceptual conclusions, and these
theoretical consequences are correlated to intuitional concepts-
thought-images of facts which can be verified by experience.
In this fashion, the theoretically conceived operation is linked to
empirical operation. This verification of the last step in perception
decides whether the total conceptual theory is valid or not and
whether it can be accepted as a workable explanation. The tenta-
tive theory means a possibility which has an option on being.12
Sometimes, the hypothetical procedure may really move in an
orderly fashion, step by step, such as we have just described. Ac-
tually, we will usually encounter interacting influences from one
step to the other. When we start with an investigation of the basic
facts of a problem, we are already able to select and view things
under educated conceptual categories (with definite possibilities
66
of solutions in mind). On the other hand, the first facts will shape
and modify the subsequent conceptual procedure. When we form
a tentative conceptual theory, we may then test factually certain
portions, and may change the theory accordingly as we go along.
We have tried to show here only a blueprint of a method. It will
be left to the deft practitioner as to how he arranges these tools and
what he does with them.
While every hypothesis appears, as far as we have described it
here, as a joint product of perception and concepts, it will actually
always be guided and formed by imagination and inspiration-by
an a-rational and a-sensual strength. Every hypothesis is made un-
certain to some extent by quite a number of factors. It must be
based on axioms and postulates which can be neither verified nor
perceived. It must deal with events which are under pluralities of
influence and disturbances and which are composed of many ele-
ments.
To affirm a consequent, and to induce from there to a cause, is
always risky-and is considered in logic even an outright fallacy.
I theorize that if A, then B; and I find B. But I might get the same
result if I assume a cause C and argue down from there, or it may
be A combined with Cor D.
It is part and parcel of a good theory to also establish, as far as
possible, proof for the uniqueness of the explanation: that this is
the only theory which can be confirmed. But it is hardly ever pos-
sible to trace a complex effect to all possible causes or conditions.
Whenever we form concepts we select certain intellectual elements
and omit others. What appears negligible in our original context,
on factual grounds-or in concepts by intuition or by postulation
or by connections-may later loom up in other problems and may
call for a revision of the original theory, under new considerations
or pre-suppositions which were originally suppressed. So, altera-
tions of a hypothesis become necessary whenever new and unfavor-
able observations occur, or when neglected observations or con-
cepts become relevant. Sometimes large revisions of theories may
be necessary to account for rather small corrections or refinements
of predictions.
67
In such dealing with reality, the huge realm of hypothetical ex-
planations often has to assert not just an isolated explanation; it
must also present a theory which fits into accepted whole clusters
of existing other hypotheses.
It is understandable that in such a situation almost every theory
lives on probation. Old theories are constantly replaced by newer
ones. This means a growth of understanding. Very often, the old
concepts are not overthrown or discarded-nobody could prove
them directly right before and nobody can prove them directly
wrong now. The new explanations will often only supplement their
predecessors or qualify them for certain other problems. Usually,
the new assumptive hypothesis will respect the previous opinion to
which an original insight may have been due.
Every hypothesis strives for a corresponding truth, even if only
indirect proof can be offered and even if only a probability is ex-
pected: most likely it is this way; but it may be otherwise.
Science is prepared to reverse and refute and change whenever
new evidence or new problems show that the accepted explanation
was not sufficient. Science may not be "objective"; but it remains
forever dynamic, open-minded and self-correcting.
Hans Vaihinger deals with a different type of correlations, which
he calls "fictions" and which he distinguishes from hypotheses,
warning us that in his opinion most hypotheses will tum out to be
actually only fictions.13
Vaihinger defines as fictions the conceptual explanations to
which no empirical existence or correspondence can be assigned.
They are, to him, conceptual constructs without any proof through
perception. They are strictly of an "as if" type-factually all wrong,
but workable in communications, in practical life, and even in
science. To Vaihinger, such artifacts are justified by the service
which they render to science or experience, as a mechanical aid in
thought processes. We should admit, according to Vaihinger, that
they are neither true nor meant to be true.
Vaihinger sets forth innumerable examples for his claim of
fictions in scientific theories or applications.14 He refers, for in-
stance, to "paper money", which is not metal but is said to be
68
treated "as if" it were. If we take, however, this same example
and look at it a bit more closely, we will find that Vaihinger just
picked the wrong elements for the abstraction of the universal which
both kinds of money have in common. Coin and paper are indeed
different, but both are legal tender accepted in economics and under
law as exchange and as a unit of economic value. Their ab-
stracted common factor is the function and not the substance, and
the proper common universal is actual and not pretended.
Vaihinger confronts us with another legal example. He turns
to corporations and deals with them as human beings, which they
obviously are not. Actually, corporations are associations of humans
and the associations function under law and in economy as
carriers of rights and obligations, the same as individual humans
do. Here again, in spite of Vaihinger, we have properly a function
as the common universal, actually and not by pretension.
Vaihinger sees fictions everywhere. Everything has become the
big lie15 for the sake of a workable explanation. However, almost
all his examples are wrong. He has a talent for selecting a false
connection instead of the available, common, universal concept
which would be true, or at least probable.
C. Hegel's Synthesis
Whoever has been exposed to Hegel's dialectical method16 will
remain influenced by this procedure of reasoning for all his life.
It does not matter whether we accept Hegel's total philosophy, with
its absolute idealism and concrete universals which assign reality to
spirit and consider individuals as accidents of spiritual activities.
His hostile opponents-for instance, the existentialists Kierkegaard
and Sartre-constantly apply his dialectical method even when they
refute him. The founders of historic materialism and communism
-Marx and Engels-remained faithful followers of dialectics.
The dialectical method is based on the proposition that we find
ourselves face to face with opposing concepts in every investigation.
Whenever we form an observation or percept, or whenever we
arrive at an abstract concept, we encounter its opposite. Whenever
69
we express opinions or judgments, we m~::et their contraries.
Opposites, contends Hegel, are necessary to each other. Every
selection must mean, at the same time, an anti-selection. Anything
that appears has to determine its borders as an entity against other-
ness. The limits which enclose a particularity are at the same time
borders which exclude anything outside of it. When I describe
"heat", I must refer, explicitly or by implication, to "cold", the
"non-heat". When I speak of being, I can describe it only by dis-
tinguishing it from nothingness. We live within the polarities of
concepts.
Hegel's next step is to resolve the two opposites-the thesis and
its antithesis-into one common, higher level: e.g., heat and cold
are both temperatures; being and nothingness are both counter-
parts of development; man and woman are both human.
In this scheme we find the thesis and the antithesis on the same
lower level. They are resolved into a synthesis which actually
states a universal abstraction common to both of them, a mutual
element of the two opposites, or the one line on which both are
extreme p'bles. We actually isolate this universal element, which
belongs to the next higher level in a conceptual system. It is in the
comprehension of such unity of opposites, of the positive and the
negative, that speculative knowledge exists, aiming at an under-
standing of the finite as a whole.
The methods of the three steps-the triad-of a thesis plus anti-
thesis resolved to a common synthesis is not a subjective seesaw
of arguments pro and con. Also, it does not aim at a compromise
between two opposites. It actually leaves each of them intact; it
rejects neither of the two, not even partially. It does, however,
regard each of them as incomplete and as a one-sided truth, as
fragments which await completion by the other and await integ-
ration into a higher, common third in which the first and the second
disappear. The synthesis becomes an annulment of the two opposite
terms of the lower level. Thesis and antithesis are thus apprehended
and preserved in the common, higher universal. Hegel's term is
"aufgehoben", which has the double meaning of "raised" and "ex-
tinguished".
70
Actually, to consider both opposites as annulled and unified in
a third universal, is to overstate the fact; and should be corrected.
This unification happens only to their common universality, to that
portion of each which is partially similar. There must, in every case,
remain considerable residues which are not abstracted by the uni-
versal. These remainders are not affected.
Here we are reminded again of the fable of the blind beggars at
the Indian Court. Placed at different spots around an elephant,
they reported how the elephant's leg appeared to one man, the
trunk to the other, and the tusk to the third, each giving his partial
image of the total elephant. In this fable, the meaning was that we
have to take opposing observations of the parts of a thing together
to come closer to the whole truth about that thing. What is done by
the simple beggars in the fable in observing a particular object is
done by Hegel on a conceptual philosophical plane, in a new scheme
of combining concepts.
In Hegel's synthesis, the opposites disregard their differences,
accentuate what they have in common, and hold hands like friends
on common ground. The thesis and the antithesis are a-ctually op-
posing extremes on the same set of co-ordinates. They are identical
except for the opposite spot, and for the positive or negative sign
before their identifications (the heat and the non-heat) .
We may add here that there is no reason to limit the method to
just two opposing theses which resolve in the synthesis, under a
triad. Obviously, there is no limit to the number of theses which
can be treated this way, as long as they are differing under one
common reference. The term "dialectical", which indicates two
entities, is therefore a bit too narrow.
According to Hegel, we exist in a vast system of pairs of con-
tradictions. Every unifying synthesis can link itself to another nega-
tion of itself; it then becomes a thesis and meets on this level an-
other antithesis, with both arriving at a synthetic universal on the
next higher level. Triad follows triad, and triad links itself to the
next triad in triadical fashion, up and down and left and right, on
higher levels of systems.
Thus, the dialectic forms all structures of knowledge, in science
71
and outside of science. Hegel not only discovered the precise
dialectical method, he was also an outstanding practitioner of
this new method. In his works we find innumerable triads: of
being and nothingness resolved in development, of old and new
uniting in the permanent, etc. Positive magnetism and negative
magnetism are raised to polarity. Similarity and difference, likeness
and unlikeness are united in essences. Universality and particularity
find their synthesis in actual individuality. We should add that
we can extend to human experience outside of knowledge or con-
sciousness: laughter and tears resolve in emotional reactions, and
love and hatred are sides of emotional attachments. The vast realm
of triads finally turns in a circle to an opposite of the original
thesis, newly positioned in a total system; and we can enter the
overwhelming set of circles at any point.
Hegel wanted, obviously, to overcome the rigidity of fragmented
concepts to which classical understanding has reduced everything.
He wanted to establish chains of moving conceptual principles
which would somehow simulate, at least partially, the continuous
fluidity of reality. Contradictions and their unification, and new
contradictions to that unification, in a never-ending succession,
seemed to him such an approach.
However, this method is still basically the classical abstract
procedure of classifications. In the simplest form, the triad works,
again, with two classes on the same level-the thesis and the anti-
thesis. A common element is abstracted from both classes and
this new, higher universal class then appears on the next level of
classifications. This is just another pattern of a combination of
two, or maybe more, lower classes, with one higher abstracted class
taken from the lower ones. We have already encountered such
patterns in the forms of hypothesis or fiction earlier in this chapter.
We will meet still another form in Chapter VI, when we look at
Aristotle's famous Syllogism.
All these forms, to which Hegel's synthesis belongs, are sub-
divisions of logical constructions which consider one higher uni-
versal concept as the predicate of two lower concepts. Hegel took
his name "dialectical" from the discourse among people of oppos-
72
ing opinions which Plato had developed in Socrates' dialogues.
But, according to Hegel, we do not need another person to be
refuted. We are quite capable of splitting ourselves and of speaking
with opposing tongues to ourselves.
Benedetto Croce17 raised the objection that Hegel's dialectical
method would not work when thesis and antithesis are distinct only
by degrees and are not completely opposed. He reproached Hegel
for overlooking this distinction in many of his examples.
Whatever the merit of some of Hegel's examples may be, we
feel that there is no reason to restrict the method in such a way.
Modem science has moved, since Croce, a long way from recog-
nizing only complete assertion or negation, and has learnt to con-
sider them merely as extreme poles on co-ordinates, with many
intermediary points. This is the age of fractional probabilities and
finer distinctions.
Croce also attacks Hegel for using dialectical methods on empi-
rical individuals and particulars in his examples.18 Again, whatever
the merit of Hegel's applications may be, we do not see any reason
for Croce's principle of restrictions. Actually, dialectics are a
method of logical reasoning and can, therefore, deal with all kinds
of thought-images. This would include conceptual notions of in-
dividuals or of particulars.
Such conceptual notions mean, again, classifications on some
lower level for thesis and antithesis. It is then always possible and
just as effective to abstract the common universal in a synthesis.
To give an extreme example, we point to the thesis and antithesis
of people with differing basic ideologies, opinions and emotions.
Nietzsche expressed beautifully his rejoicing that another man
works and feels in a different and opposite way and that love, in
a synthesis, must be able to bridge that contrast in joy.19 The ex-
istentialist Kierkegaard and the existentialist Sartre use dialectics
constantly on thought-images of subjective entities. They prove
it can be done to good avail, even on particulars.
We find a display of the dialectical method on all levels in
Hegel's famous Philosophy of History.20 The triad appears there
in his distinctions of methodical treatments of historical data. He
73
separates original history, reflective history and philosophical
history. The "original" means reports by eye-witnesses; the "re-
flective" refers to research, description and ordering of facts which
are remote from the researcher; and the synthesis between the two
leads to principles which are to be uncovered behind the facts,
the philosophical history.
The highest hidden principle of history, according to Hegel, is
approached through dialectics. Hegel speaks here of "Spirit", the
German "Geist", which means to him both intelligence and will
and which has to him universal reality as objective spirit as well
as human realization in subjective spirit. The highest goal of
history to him is the development of self-determination, of free-
dom-when objective reason and subjective reason become unified
in the State. In such a process, the historical man follows his sub-
jective self-interests, but he has an opportunity to succeed only
when the time is ripe, when he fulfills objective public interests-
the common good-in a synthesis of political activity.
When we read this, we feel reminded of Adam Smith's Wealth of
Nations, which seems to show a similar approach to modes of
capitalistic economics. And we think also of Machiavelli's triad
of virtu, the ability of the individual man, which must correspond
to fortuna, the general conditions, to make any useful political
activity possible.
Triads appear everywhere in statements and casual remarks
throughout Hegel's Philosophy of History: Nature as thesis and
spirit as antithesis are reflected in the universe;21 light and dark-
ness meet in primal existence;22 man and God are posited in the
Christian religion.2a
The dialectical process may have had historic predecessors
before Hegel.24 But beyond doubt, it was Hegel who gave it the
precision of a scientific general tool and forged it into a new and
basic conceptual method for relations of concepts. It became,
through him, a formal procedure, applicable to widely varying
opinions and concepts. Ever since Hegel, dialectics have been
used extensively by people who differed from Hegel's basic
philosophy. It is an approach to unifying diversities in thought,
74
to reflecting plurality and development, to simulating, at least to
some extent, the :fluidity of reality on which all conceptual methods
use the knives of fragmentation. This is surely the highest peak
of abstract thinking, and it goes as far as classical abstractions can
actually go. Croce25 claims that dialectics re-established the co-
herence of organic wholes. Unfortunately, this praise seems to
overstate the merits. We gain, through dialectics, only a simulation
of a still rather incomplete reality.
Dialectics work with abstractions and with small fragments
through mechanical levels. In dialectics, we deal only with simula-
tions of life and not with immediate experience. Even a well written
love story can hardly replace or convey the joy and sorrow of
one's own involvement in a love experience. And Hegel's concepts
are still only sums and collections of rigid abstractions.
Yet Hegel still looks for essences. His form is strict and con-
ceptual, even if he assigns to his contents the notion of eternity, of
the divine, of the Christian Redeemer, or of spirits who have reality
in the universe.
Hegel seems to have seen his characteristics in the proper light
when he gave his system the name: "Absolute Idealism". It is
still idealism, a system of conceptual ideas, even if the content is
described as absolute and real.
Compared with the existentialists, who approached reality im-
mediately, Hegel did not find a new path. He is, however, the
completer and fulfiller of the established abstract science of clas-
sifications. Hegel represents the finest and highest accomplishment
of conceptualism and reasoning, just as Mozart in music was the
last and best of the "Rococo" and just as J. S. Bach climaxed at
the end of "Baroque."
D. The Dynamic View: Gestalt Psychology, Vygotsky and
Bergson
So far, we have looked at the classical methods of abstraction and
classification. They work with immobile conceptual and intellectual
elements and then combine such notions and ideas. We discussed
there the ingenious devices of the human mind which have become
75
imparted into our daily lives, into our methods of knowledge and
into science.
Still, powerful as these methods are, they remain rather mechani-
cal and are used on a world of events which are positioned in a
dynamic process, with constant genuine mobility, with time-dura-
tion, and with spontaneous life. Fragmental methods break events
apart, form concepts of such dead particles, and use them as
building stones for rigid intellectual constructs.
Very often, the results have been fantastic, especially in natural
science. But often, the mechanical approach will not be adequate
and will not bring sufficient understanding. We will then need dif-
ferent procedures which contemplate a living entity as such.
Sometimes these other methods may be needed instead of a frag-
mented analysis and synthesis. Often, the new methods may just
have to be added to conventional procedures of classification, and
will have to be used in complete integration.
Let us take a first step in this direction and look at the views of
psychologists who aim at total percepts. They say that the human
mind recognizes psychologically a whole particular event in a
flash, by imminent recall.
Actually, we find ourselves limited here to sensual perception.
But in our totality of functions in recognition, such diiferent views
of the perceptive faculty will naturally also affect concepts and
judgements which are intertwined with observations. What will be
said in our context about perceptions, transfers itself eventually
to the level of concepts by intuition, the thought-image denoting
events which can be sensed.
We tum first to Vygotsky, a Russian scientist.26 He promotes
the viewpoint that properties of a part at which we look in static
selection may often depend on the position of the part within an
organic whole. He refers, as an example, to the chemical analysis
of water into hydrogen and oxygen. Neither of the two elements
possesses properties of the whole. Each of them has properties
which the whole does not have. And the whole has not combined
properties of both. Water extinguishes fire, but hydrogen bums and
oxygen sustains fire.
76
Other examples could be found coming from investigations of
events which involve actions of lively organisms or of social com-
plexes. Here, the essence of temporal situations is very often not
the same for more than a moment. Man's personality, for instance,
is in constant change as new experiences enter and old experiences
flow out.
So, it often becomes important to supplement the mechanical
view by immediate consciousness which turns on the functional
whole. This has been attempted by a school which originated in
Germany under the name of "Gestalt Psychology".27 Its American
followers have continued to use the German label. The word
"Gestalt" means "form", but with a connotation of life. "Shape
Psychology" would come pretty close to the original meaning.
Pattern recognition is the word which data-processing people
have chosen for their first tentative steps in a similar direction.28
The term tastes of the mechanical, and so do their approaches.
Let us now turn to an example of the dynamic attitude. I go
to the public library and ask the librarian where I may find Pan-
kard's Pyramid Visitors. I add that I just cannot recall the first
name of the author. She looks up from her book and replies the
name is Packard and not Pankard, that his first name happens to
be Vance, and that I also have the title wrong. Actually I mean
his Pyramid Climbers, and I will find it in the Sociology Depart-
ment, on the second floor.
The librarian knows all this at once; her answer is an immediate
reaction. She does not have to look up anything and she does not
apply any analytical method. She does not riffle through index
cards or address the new computer for Pankards or Pyramids; in
all probability she would have to search for hours in vain because
my question was incomplete and faulty.
Or another example: I meet Fido, the neighbor's black poodle,
who is wagging his tail and running towards me on our street. I
just know him. There is no need for an orderly search of my
memory to tell that he is nothing but a dog and that he is not any of
all the other poodles with whom I have the good luck to be ac-
quainted. Or, I read something and know instantaneously that it
77
is right, without having to look up a hundred references and with-
out applying a few hundred comparisons. Or, I write a letter and
know that what I write is more-or-less exactly what I want to
convey. I do not need several hours of scrutiny using dictionaries
and grammar books to check my verbal constructions.
There is nothing mystical about this type of total knowledge; or
better, there is nothing more mystical about it than any other
forms of knowing. The Gestalt psychologists have, unnecessarily,
tried to explain it by saying the nerve cells in the cortex of our
brain are arranged similar to the structure of the events-in topo-
logical parallels-and that we are therefore able to receive a total
impression of an event in the cortex. For instance, a three di-
mensional object would be viewed in simultaneous reception by
the brain cells, which are arranged in the cortex in a three dimen-
sional position.
It is strange that such mechanical explanations are offered for
a rather unmechanical opinion. There is not the slightest evidence
for these physiological explanations, especially not in the many
psychological experiments with animals which Gestalt psycholo-
gists have carried out.
Henri Bergson, who worked independently of the Gestalt
psychologists but came close to their views in some respects, has
offered the enlightening term of "Instantaneous Recognition". He
refers to the fact that we form a habit-memory from repetition of
lessons.29 In this process, all learning starts from consciousness
and moves down to automatic total representations and motor
habits, from which overlapping images are retrieved in actual total
recognitions.
Bergson raises the interesting question30 of how mere repetition
in learning could produce something that was not in the original
material. His explanation is that the repetition itself decomposes
the complex data into parts and then recomposes these parts into
a subconscious totality. According to Bergson, we act in a pattern
of classical analysis and synthesis of abstractions and classifications,
producing a habit that moves into subconsciousness and intuition.
This theory has at least, the advantage of corresponding to veri-
78
fiable observation. We must bear in mind that the explanation
reaches way beyond actions which are based on teaching in schools.
Man is taught constantly outside of school, before and after it.
Bergson seems to have succeeded in constructing a beautiful
synthesis of two opposing attitudes. Whatever the reaction to his
explanation may be, we surely do possess and use constantly
"instantaneous recognition". If our experienced order of knowl-
edge is to be a true image of corresponding facts around us, if our
methods shall be described as proper maps to existing territories,
we had better allow for the lively view. Sometimes the dynamic
approach will help to supplement the classifications. Sometimes it
alone will provide the proper answer. It will often substitute as a
quick recognition when details are not relevant. Very often it will
help us to experience an appearance of a detail in reference to the
whole layout of the surrounding field.
79
Chapter VI
MORE DETAILS ABOUT REASONING:
LOGIC AND MATHEMATICS
LoGic IS a system of rules devised for the reasoning power of men.
It deals with procedures which lead from certain conceptual state-
ments to other statements in the realm of concepts.1
Factual observation may translate percepts into conceptual im-
ages-so-called concepts by intuition. In knowledge, conceptual
conclusions will have to be tested somewhere on perceptions. But
despite its function in factual observations, logic itself, in pure
form, deals exclusively with selected intellectual possibilities and,
as such, does not care whether its intellectual symbols correspond
to sensual reality.
A. Language and Symbols in Logic
In the classical period, logic presented itself mainly in the form
of an analysis of language-in declaratory sentences-which were
called propositions. Proper methods of connecting subjects and
predicates, through copulas, expressed the channels of reasoning.
Obviously, the goal must have been to reach the thoughts behind
the words and to observe reasoning and contemplation as they
became evident in the flesh of sentences.2 In orthodox logic we
speak of propositions, but we mean apparently thought-images
and their manipulations which appear in verbal symbols. Often, we
may even infer to a further level-to the elements of events which
are imaged in thoughts or in the concepts of intuition.
80
While classical logic worked toward an analysis of language,
modern logic has turned to non-verbal symbols.3 Almost all modern
logic calls itself symbolic for this reason, and expresses itself in
quasi-mathematical signs instead of verbal forms. This reduces
human reasoning not anymore to words but to mathematical nota-
tions.
The argument in favor of this new trend seems to be that the
new idiom is shorter and more precise. It is also argued that the
new symbols can be manipulated easier. The disadvantage appears
to be that the new presentations denote only form and not any
content. We must, therefore, translate the symbols back into
verbal statements, at least at the beginning and at the end of a
chain of reasoning.
It seems that the use of symbolic expressions for formal thoughts
was first advocated by Leibniz.4 He spoke of a calculus of reason-
ing which would consist of quasi-mathematical signs. In his opinion,
such a system could be read by Germans in German, by Frenchmen
in French, and by Spaniards in Spanish. In this fashion, it would
establish a universal and international vehicle of communication
among all scientists.
Apparently Leibniz only proposed this, but never did anything
to work out such a system. Modern logicians have taken up this
task. An example of the modern method is the translation of the
sentence that John Smith (b) has ( =) red hair (rh) into : b =
rh.
The first really symbolic system of logic was apparently estab-
lished by George Boole in his famous Investigations of the Laws
of Thought.5 This was published in 1859 but was ignored in its
time. Boole only gained fame recently, long after his death.
Modern mathematicians have rediscovered him and found his
work useful to the needs of data-processing.
In the field of symbolic logic, the modern pioneers seem not to
have made much use of Boole's work. It appears that modern
logicians started from scratch, although Boole's method com-
mended itself by its simplicity and precision. Boole used letters to
represent things or properties. Horned, white sheep became to him:
81
abc. He added mathematical signs for relations or combinations:
plus, minus, times or equal. He used a simple symbol for quantity:
v means some and x means all.
In a mathematical sense, Boole's methods do not measure mag-
nitude. He accomplished this by using the basic equation y2 equals
y. This, obviously, can be so only if the constant 1 or 0 replaces
the variable y. In this connection, his "1" stands for the sum of all
existing classes and his "0" denotes not any class. Or in other words,
the "1" means the universe and the "0" means nothing, a com-
plete negation. When, therefore, his y would represent a certain
class, the 1 - y will mean everything else that is not in classy.
On this foundation, Boole's basic law becomes y (1 - y) = 0.
Or verbally, a certain class times everything that is not this class
will resolve in nothing.6 His symbols for all or some will often add
clarity. All men are mortal would become: xy = vz. And, men
who are not mortal do not exist would change to: y (1 - z) = 0.
Under Boole's rules, the mathematical methods are obviously
applicable not only for magnitudes but for any order of events,
and especially for relations between classes or propositions. He
has added certain principles of operation and manipulation of the
symbols by development, elimination and reduction. In symbolic
presentations, he arrives from premises at conclusions.7
Long after Boole, and mainly independent of him, modem logic
has developed symbolic systems on the basis of progress in non-
quantitative mathematics.8 Modem logic, for instance, shies away
from the copula of equalization which Boole used constantly. In
our time, science has become uncertain as to whether properties
are real and substances exist. The modest sign of "implying" is
now used exclusively, and the symbol is: ::::>. Aristotle's "all A is
B" would now be written: A:> x(fz::::>gs).9 Boole used to say this
much more simply : xa = vb.
To a small extent, symbolic logic has also used geometric
representations. John Venn modified so-called Euler diagrams.
Here, a rectangle is drawn as a field of reference and is the "field
of the universe of discourse". Into such a rectangle circles are
placed which represent classes and which show their interrelation
82
by intersecting. The overlapping segments are within the two-or-
more circles and show, visually and geometrically, that so far the
different classifications imply properties or substances that both
have in common.
These are just examples to show what symbolic logic tries to do
and how it does it.10 Actually, symbolism has almost taken over
logic, and it has become impossible to talk today about logic with-
out acknowledging this state of affairs. Still, we would like to raise
the question: is all this symbolism really worth the trouble? En-
gineers and natural scientists are apparently used to a technical,
mathematical jargon in their work and generally prefer sign lan-
guage to words. Adherents of the cultural sciences may find
occasional advantages to symbolism when it permits here and
there simpler and clearer expressions. But on the whole, they will
find it clumsy to apply to their work, which is usually not dominated
by quantities and mathematic formulas. Also, it seems hardly
recommendable to use special codes which are not understandable
to outsiders, and not even to some co-workers in the particular
field or in related fields.
From here on, we will use symbols occasionally when it appears
convenient and will otherwise stick to normal language.
B. The Impact of Classifications and Definitions in Logic
Classes are the units which our connective reasoning-the science
of logic-uses in its work. Like any other science, logic must start
or end, somewhere, with descriptions of our actual observa-
tions. But, we deal in logic only with the intellectual image of such
facts, with concepts by intuition. And we deal only with certain
narrow portions-with the universals, which are taken out of ap-
pearances and are formed into a notion.
Traditionally, logical science is divided into deductive logic and
inductive logic. Deduction means reasoning from premises
to conclusions. Inductive logic establishes rules of evidence for
valid perception. Both branches are, of course, strictly conceptual
in viewpoints and methods. The prevailing attitude is that thoughts
are connected with perception, to some extent, and are verified by
83
it, but only indirectly. There is accepted a correspondence, a rela-
tion, but never an identity. Our thoughts are of different character,
different altogether from observation, and when my theory is
proved by perception, the intellectual prediction remains parallel,
and not identical, with perceived facts.
Let us turn first to deductive logic. In every theory, we deal with
postulates-the basic intellectual rules. We reason from concepts
to consequences under established, orderly principles.
The device of definitions shows how logical methods work.
Strangely enough, the literature of logic treats definitions rather
lightly, altough they are one of the most widely used tools of
reasoning in all branches of science.
Definitions signify the spot a concept holds in the hierarchy of
classes. The definition brings a certain complex term to better
understanding by replacing it with a combination of class and
species, of genus and differentia. A grandfather becomes, according
to this, the male parent of the parent of a child.
In definitions, the original term is called a definiendum, mean-
ing the something which should be defined, and is equalled by the
definiens. In such an equation, the explaining definiens states first
the upper class to which the original term belongs and then the dif-
ferences which bring it down to the proper lower level. A ranch
house is a residential building of one floor in a contemporary rural
style.
The term which shall be defined is usually a sub-complex which
exists somewhere in the middle levels of a conceptual hierarchy of
classifications. We reduce it by abstractions into universal elements
of higher and lower orders. We may take one of these elements,
which will usually not be atomic but will at the same time be some
sub-complex, and may break it, by the same method, into its parts.
Where we start and how far we go are strictly left to our judge-
ment, and will depend on the problem which we intend to clarify.
In this connection, we owe gratitude to Dewey's pragmatism,
which placed such emphasis on the cash-value of questions.
The same term may have certain relevant universal elements
under one viewpoint and may have entirely different elements and
84
definitions under another context. An automobile may appear as
a mechanized vehicle of transportation; in another discourse, how-
ever, it may be a unit of the current inventory of a dealer.
Definitions date back to the very beginning of logic. Plato used
them extensively in his dialogues to clarify ethical rules of con-
duct. In all natural and cultural sciences, we use definitions to
pinpoint structures and relations and to recognize uniformities and
differences. Definitions allocate conceptual indentifications. They
bring particulars down to elements and reduce vaguely known
complexes to accurate classifications. This allocation will often,
in itself, lead to conclusions and will, at least, remove some fog.
Denying any importance to definitions, Wittgenstein11 called
them mere expedients in presentation, saying that equating "a"
with "a" could hardly lead to any meaning. Actually, definitions
are never of Wittgenstein's pattern. In their simplest forms, defini-
tions look more like : xa:J ( vb plus vc plus vd). Boole used a
more involved example: that wealth (w) consists of ( = ) goods
short in supply (st) which either cause pleasure (p) or avoid pain
(r, not p). According to Boole, then, we would arrive at the
equation: w = st (p plus r [1 -p]). This seems rather far re-
moved from Wittgenstein's a = a.
Obviously, definitions replace a complex term by a combination
of universal upper and lower terms which are more elaborate and
say quite a lot more than the reduced term could do. This replace-
ment alone means a manipulation and permits, almost auto-
matically, further conclusions, operations and subsumptions.
C. Logical Methods
Aristotle was the first logician who took simple declaratory sen-
tences and analyzed them. "All men are mortal" contains definite
elements, namely a subject (men) to which a predicate is ascribed
(mortal). Both are connected by the copula (are). We may add
that we actually have a fourth element-namely, the quantifier
"all" before the subject of men.
Now, either subject or predicate may differ by "quality", which
may be either affirmative (men) or negative (no-men). A simple
85
example for such a negative predicate would be that "all Ameri-
cans are non-Europeans".
Subject or predicate may also express different quantities which
may be either universal (all) or particular (some). The singular
-for instance, in "Socrates is wise"-would here be considered
as a universal since it covers the whole existing class of one mem-
ber.
Out of these few simple elements, Aristotle formed four primary
propositions: All A is b; all A is non-b; some A is b and some A
is non-b. Names were attached to these four forms: universal
affirmative and particular negative. In later classical logic, identi-
fying letters were used to symbolize these four classes: A,E,I and
0. These are the first vowels taken from the Latin "affirmo" and
"nego".
It is important that in logic we become extremely class-con-
scious. We must remain aware of the fact that subjects as well as
predicates always indicate membership in conceptual classes.
"All Frenchmen are Europeans" means actually that all members
of the class of Frenchmen are considered to be some members of
the class of Europeans-which has also other species of mem-
bers beside the French nationals.
We see immediately that such statements cannot necessarily be
reciprocal or symmetrical. In our last example, we can obviously
not reverse subject and predicate and we cannot say that all
Europeans are Frenchmen. The logical reason is that "Europeans"
covers a wider class which has also other sub-classes. Classical
logic attaches to this differentiation the term "distribution". A sub-
ject is distributed if it covers all possible members and it is not
distributed if it covers only a part of the class. In our example,
the subject "Frenchmen" is distributed, while the predicate "Euro-
peans" is not. Tables have been developed in classical logic to
show the possibilities of distribution in the four primary proposi-
tions.
To fit statements into the class-patterns, logic has sometimes
tried to translate vernacular sentences into stricter form. "Bag-
pipes make noise" changes here to "All bagpipes (quantified sub-
86
ject) are (copula) things which make noise (predicate)". To
indicate distributions can, by the way, be done much easier by
using Boole's symbols of x for all and v for some. According to
Boole, for instance, the statement that only the brave deserve the
fair would become : xs ::J vp.t2
Based on this analysis of propositions, Aristotle developed three
so-called laws: the law of identity (a = b) ; the law of con-
tradiction (a = -b); and the law of the excluded middle (if a,
then not b). Actually, these three laws have become completely in-
grained in our daily reasoning. They reach much further than a
first glance will indicate. Here again, we must pay close attention
to classifications.
The law of identity means that a member of a certain class
belongs to another class, or has properties which belong to another
class. It may also mean that one member has elements in common
with other members of his same subject-classification. Symbolic
writing, in my favorite Boole style, will make this clearer: xa = vb;
or xa = (vla plus v2a plus v3a); or via= v2a. The law of contra-
diction shows the same relations with a negative property or sub-
stance. And with the law of the excluded middle, either p or q
points to the important relation that one conclusion may be pro-
duced by either of one of two premises.
What can be done with simple sentences-with only one term
for each part of subject or predicate-may just as well be done
with compound primary propositions, which consist of several
connected subjects or predicates. "Some English knighted poli-
ticians were poets" would first have to be translated into a logical
pattern and would then become: "Some (quantifier) politicians
(subject) were (copula) knights, Englishmen and poets (com-
pound predicates)." Such compound compositions are handled
like simple sentences. Both groups reveal proper classifications and
connections.
From primary propositions, simple or compound, we turn now
to the secondary statements which deal with the relations of
several complete primary sentences. Here, we use whole primary
sentences as subject or as predicate. If one complete sentence is
87
true, the other must be true or must not be true. Or, we may use
subaltern structures: if the first sentence is true, the second is
true. Just as we stated about propositions, here we may or may
not be able to tum predicates and subjects around. The statements
may be reciprocal or they may not permit the reversal, depending
on the class-relations.18 This is merely a parallel to our question
of distribution in primary sentences, which is here applied to the
whole sentences with which we deal.
A revered form of secondary reasoning is still Aristotle's famous
Syllogism. We have in this a first complete sentence, the major
premise: "All men are mortal". Then comes the second complete
sentence, the minor premise: "All Greeks are men". Now follows
the third proposition, the conclusion: "Therefore, all Greeks are
mortal". In classical logic, this was represented by letters: A=B;
C=A; therefore: C=B.
In our example of the Syllogism we used simple propositions
for all steps. The middle term "men" is eliminated and does not
appear in the conclusion. Only the other two elements appear
in the concluding proposition: the Greeks and their mortality.
The two premises jointly suggest the conclusion. To understand
better what is happening here, we must again become extremely
class-conscious. Actually, the first or major premise states that
a certain class-"all men" is included in the predicted class of
mortals. Our second or minor premise merely asserts that a cer-
tain subclass or species-"all Greeks"-belongs to the more
general class of the subject in the first premise-"all men". In
the conclusion, we express only that what is true of the whole
class-of all men-must naturally also be true of the subclass
of that whole class-Greeks-who were, after all, already covered
by the original larger classification of our first sentence.
Or to say it differently: If every member of a certain class indi-
cates a certain property, and if a particular group is included in
that subject-class, then that particular group must have the same
property. We have here a dictum de omni: What is true of all
members of a class must also be true for some of them.14
Simple and obvious as this method may be, it has retained its
88
attraction and importance through thousands of years. It has
earned its place because it is efficient in deductions from general
laws and useful in subsumption of facts under rules, or better,
of conceptual images of perceptions under postulates. In the legal
field, for instance, it is used constantly for this purpose. Murder
is defined as a combination of certain actions. We find that
Smith has done all this. Therefore, Smith shall be electrocuted.
Descartes objected to syllogisms.15 In his opinion, they do not
discover anything new, but are only of avail in the communication
of what is already known. However, logic and conceptual work can
never create something out of nothing. They only break down and
connect elements, mainly in classifications. The syllogism helps
greatly to do this and to clarify relations between universals and
particulars. In this fashion, often new results are accomplished
(our murderer Smith will even be electrocuted). Or, at least,
results are produced which were before not visible to the in-
vestigator.
With this, we move to the inductive branch of logic. We said
before that inductive logic deals with conceptual rules governing
the evidence of perceptions and their translation into concepts by
intuition. Obviously, every branch of science will have here
special methods which are custom-tailored to its needs and postu-
lates.
Experimental tests by a chemist will be quite different from
methods which a lawyer uses in establishing proof before a
judge and jury. There may be some general principles which all
such methods have in common; they must however, be qualified
by the differences in every branch of science, and it will have to
be left to each branch to present its own package.
Logic, in its total process, is a very sensitive tool and must be
handled with care. It can easily be misused to wrong conclusions,
through errors and bad intentions. It is important that we remark
on such pitfalls-the so-called fallacies.
It can happen that comparative observations are presented as
historical. This means a confusion of logical levels. A famous
example is Rousseau's Social Contract, with its moving tale of
89
how man has decayed through history from pastoral innocence
to his rottenness in social organizations. Another example is
presented by Darwin's followers, who claim long historic develop-
ments, also in cultural fields, for situations which actually co-
exist beside each other. Neither of the two presents proper evi-
dence for monistic simplification of topical factors.
Among other fallacies which misguide proper conclusions, we
find the argument ad ignorantiam. The absence of proof is taken
for presence of disproof. Rationalists and materialists love to
quote the surgeon who had never seen a soul when he cut up
human beings or corpses. He had, by the way, not seen matter or
reasoning power either.
There may be a fallacy of significance. The premise may be
proper, but it does not justify the conclusion. Man functions
physio-chemically; therefore, he can only be physio-chemical, with
all his other functions stemming from this.
We also encounter the fallacy based on misplaced authority.
This fine football player endorses that good toothpaste. Or the
famous baby-doctor signs a petition against nuclear testing.
A more intricate fallacy consists of the wrong connection of an
inductive fact to a conceptual cause. Two researchers drink
highballs every evening and get drunk every time. They want to
track down the cause and vary one variable, namely the liquor.
First they mix scotch and soda-water. The next evening they
mix bourbon and soda-water. For the third meeting it becomes
soda-water and rye whiskey. The common unvariable element in
every test is the soda-water. So, they conclude, it must have been
the soda-water which caused them to become intoxicated.
Our last example hints at an extremely dangerous fallacy which
we encounter very often and which is, unfortunately, usually a
bit harder to recognize than the one in our drinkers' story. It is
the fallacy of the single cause for a complex result. Any cause
may be necessary and the result may be conditioned on it, in the
form of a conditio sine qua non. Without this condition, the event
does actually not occur. I remove a bulb from a television set,
for instance, and the jazz band with its whole performance
90
vanishes from the screen. But I can hardly conclude that nothing
but the bulb caused the performance to exist. The bulb was a
condition, one of many, but not the only one.
This flaw in arguments is very often not so obvious. But, it
exists in almost every monistic view which elevates one aspect
to the principal motive. We hear, for example, that life must
have evolved from matter, that economic interests determine all
human actions, that steady jobs will prevent crimes. All ascribe
a condition to a single cause, without proof.
Logic consists of intellectual concepts, and concepts depict
possibilities; their corresponding realities may often include resi-
dues which were simply omitted when the intellectual images were
drawn.
Any warning against failures in rational reasoning shall, of
course, be uttered with due respect for the overwhelming contri-
butions which proper logic has made to understanding for thou-
sands of years. But it can never be overlooked that reasoning power
could produce whatever it has accomplished only in integrated co-
operation with all other human faculties.
D. A Few Words about Mathematics
It may appear odd that we treat mathematics as an appendix
to logic and that we talk about it in a few paragraphs. However,
we merely want to show mathematics' essential character within
theories of knowledge.
Whoever works in natural science, as a researcher or pro-
fessional, will have to be thoroughly familiar with certain aspects
of the mathematical field. In cultural sciences, mathematics plays
a relatively small role; it consists mainly of statistics and of
simplified presentations.16
Mathematics and logic have one very significant thing in com-
mon-they must both be regarded as completely conceptual
activities. Mathematics is a theory of symbols and their manipula-
tion, and not of things. Its fundamentals are neither based on
experience nor are they necessarily in conformance with facts.17 In
91
-------~----·
our preceding discussion on symbolic logic, we pointed to the
close connections between non-quantitative modem mathematics
and modem symbolic logic. New methods of teaching mathematics
seem to aim also at logical explanations and connections for
quantitative mathematics and its handling of magnitudes.
Just as any other branch of science, mathematics has a pure
and an applied branch. In pure mathematics, the deductions are
not linked to verifications of contingent statements, while prac-
titioners of applied mathematics must be concerned about veri-
fications at all stages. It would be bad, for instance, if the stresses
for a bridge were not based on proper formulas.
Moving into non-quantitative realms, mathematics has become
a science which draws necessary conclusions in symbols.18 It is
not any more merely a science concerned with quantities. In this
new extended form, as well as in the classical form, it aids in
other fields; although it does not replace them. There is mathe-
matical logic, just as there are mathematical optics or mathe-
matical economics or mathematics for employees' pension funds.
Mathematical logic is formal logic. However, formal logic is by
no means the whole of mathematics.19
Logic proper concerns itself with the coherent organization of
concepts. Its methods use mathematics for unmathematical goals.
In the opposite direction, mathematics uses logic, but also more
than logic.
We find the interaction of mathematics in other fields, including
the cultural sciences. It is everywhere a service and nowhere a
master, and it exists also as its own entity-just as logic does and
just as our theories of knowledge and values do.
Concluding our remarks about logic and mathematics, we must
again stress the plurality and interaction of all faculties and of
all methods of understanding. We have looked at the organiza-
tion of concepts "in isolation but only to understand and to handle
our material better. We must never forget that reason is only one
faculty among others and that all abilities and approaches are
interconnected and intermingled in all performances.
92
Chapter VII
IRRATIONAL INFLUENCES ON
KNOWLEDGE
MAN Is NOT only a rational being-he does not only,..__fu!~!J.e. i~ .
also a feeling, seeking, desiring and aspiring being/Knowledge in-
volves the total man and is produced in an interaction of all human
faculties. -~~---CO <> ' : "' < • ·,·r -~ .. c~ ......
c.---)__
1.'. ) i'.__ 1 __ l_ • ) • (~. n ( , , •' T •';
J . .f'
A. Irrational Elements of Creative Work
In previous chapters, we have looked closely at perception-the
sensual observations-and at concepts-the lofty realm of or-
ganized thoughts.
Irrationality is a third human faculty. 1The linguistic term "ir-
rationality" covers all that is not rational or is not "thought". We
may add that it includes also all that is not observation.
Max Planck-physicist, Nobel Prize Winner, and founder of
the Quantum Theory--confesses: "Ultimately, any new (scienti-
fic) idea is the work of the author's imagination and to this exte~,
progress is tied to the irrational element at some point."2 "
John Dewey, the pragmatist and prophet of the practical utility
of all questions, stresses the balance of consciousness and un-
consciousness: "The unconsciousness gives spontaneity and fresh-
ness, while the consciousness give conviction and control", and he
concludes with the need for "interaction of the near and the far, the
imagination and the observation in thought, emotion and senses'~
93
We may go back to St. Augustine, in his De Musica Libra Six."
He describes musical impressions as a complex mixture of diverse
occurrences: physical sound, faculty of hearing, image and mem-
ory, classification and evaluation, and finally, enjoyment and emo-
tional unification of the soul with a universal principle.
! Closer to our time, we find Alfred North Whitehead saying
that "the power of incorporating vague and disorderly elements
of emotional experiences is essential for advance and novelty".5\
The positive character of irrationality is expressed in the "sub-
consciousness" of the psychoanalysts, or in the "will" of Schopen-
hauer. The common man's motto is "emotions and judgements".
We will use the term "irrational" all the way through this
chapter. It is generally accepted in literature which we will
quote. And the reality behind the word is mighty enough to take
care of itself, even under a strange name. Human emotions, just
like any other actual occurrences, can of course be described
by rational concepts or can be observed in their emanations. But
these will produce only images. A cook book may give a recipe
for a meal and may teach a girl how to prepare food. But the
food itself, the real article, is something immediate and quite dif-
ferent. So are love and hatred, as are all our human emotions.
1 When we turn to knowledge and to the irrational elements in it,
we like to be as factual as possible. It seems promising to start
with extreme cases. We find a wealth of important data about
irrational influences on creative work in science and art, when we
listen to testimonies of great scientists and artists.
m-ow:~. Dale Hutchinson has collected questionnaires from
many scientists and artists and has tabulated the results.6 He de-
fines as creative effort the initiative and execution of some work
of art or science which has to be essentially new.
Hutchinson is greatly concerned about reliable data and he
quotes a precedence. The American Chemical Society had ques-
tioned 233 directors of research laboratories; about 83 percent
of these people admitted in their replies to the basic assistance of
insight in their work. In his investigation, Hutchinson sent detailed
questionnaires to about 250 famous contemporary thinkers and
94
artists in America and England. He correlated and documented
the replies.
He reprinted, in facsimile, the answers of four outstanding
men, including Bertrand Russell, who surely will not be suspected
of mystical leanings or of rational deficiency. Russell says that
the moment of inspiration was most important in his work and
that such emotional moments were exciting-"like quick motor-
ing". Russell adds: "I have no voluntary control over ideas, but
I find that by concentration I can plant a topic in my subconscious,
so that later ideas come to me". "Starting with day-dreaming,
about the nature of my work, ideas pop into my head."7
In another questionnaire, Aldous Huxley explains similar
experiences: "I do not feel that these things were dictated to me
by someone else, only that I was in an exceptional state when I
wrote them."8
Tabulating his material from two hundred and fifty question-
naires and quoting from them in detail, Hutchinson arrives at an
agreement of his creative people on four separate stages of the
creative process: A stage of preparation, a stage of frustration, a
stage of insight, and a stage of verification. Naturally, not all work
of great persons can be creative or revolutionary. But the real
discoveries fall ip~o a pattern of these four stages.
The first of o&a:-stages-the preparation-states the problem
and consists of systematic work along conventional channels. The
problem is worked over from all available angles. This is basically
an un-inspired procedure.
If the first process does not lead to a satisfactory solution, after
long and tedious work which exhausts all known approaches, the
creator will naturally become impatient. Frustration and tensions
mount, representing the second stage and leading to typically neu-
rotic symptoms of anger, inferiority feelings and irritations. This
tension is essential and always present in creative production on a
second level-there is complete agreement about this among all
witnesses.
The necessary presence of a neurotic intermittent stage has led
to the opinion that a neurotic disposition is a condition of creation
95
and must be part and parcel of every creative person whatever his
field of work may be. Of course, to be neurotic alone hardly assures
greatness. But without an inclination to hysterics, the other abilities
do not seem to become effective. Neurotic emotional accumulations
seem to be needed, so to speak, to supply the power to drive latent
creative gifts to realization."'"""'
According to Hutchinson and his respondees, the creator may
calm his perturbance by laying the work aside and turning to
other, easier assignments. Out of the dammed-up tensions, whether
temporarily delayed or not, breaks then suddenly the flash, the
insight, the solution, apparently coming up from the realm below
the consciousness.
The answer may arrive in a dream, or in a visual image or, for
instance, to a composer, in sounds. The creator may feel like a
recording instrument possessed by some higher intelligence within
him. The burst can hardly be explained, but it can be described
and almost everyone of Hutchinson's more than two hundred
respondees has done so. Here, we run again into the typical
modern scientific attitude-not to bother about essential sub-
stances or properties of the things-in-themselves, but to be con-
cerned merely about manifestations, relations and verifications.
The creative process continues and ends with the fourth and
last step, the verification. Now, after an overwhelming insight, we
are back on the firm ground of reasoning and observation. The
verification may consist of experiments whenever a natural scien-
tist has to prove his hunch. It may mean scissor-work in the
cold light of a new day to an author. In whichever medium the
creative act is placed, the last part of creation means a return to a
critical attitude-a self-evaluation-after moments of elation.
It may happen that our precise sequence of the four steps is
changed in actual cases, starting with a sudden hunch. Or it may
start with a postulated result recognized by a man who is already
aware of all available orthodox approaches-moving directly
into the frustration and being then awarded with the sudden
insight.
The sequence is not "mandatory", but the existence of the
96
four separate steps seems assured, including the built-in third step
of irrational "insight". We find, independent from Hutchinson, a
similar statement about our four stages in Lepley's Verifiability
of Values.9 He uses different terms, speaking of preparation, incu-
bation, illumination and verification.
The mysterious S'ecpnd and third ste the tension and the
flash-are linked by Hutchinson to ps hoanalytical explanations.
Under emotional pressure~ain its explode to the surface-
from the subconscious emotio~alm into the consciousness-
or, in other words, from tb.e-/ll'nformCdinto the formed. It would
also fit psychoanalytical· ~oncepts that sutn, creative explosions
effect a cure: the tension is released into creative action and is
resolved into complete relaxation.
Apparently completely unaware of Hutchinson's work, Arthur
Koestler, a well known writer of:ze:m time, has recently published
an extensive book, The Act of Creation.10 It covers about 800
pages and presents fifteen years of work. The approach is syste-
matic and includes about 400 pages which are devoted to paral-
lels in natural science.
Koestler comes, independent from Hutchinson, to statements
which are very similar to ~!our steps. He adds, mainly from his
field of literature, evidence from other well known writers. He
also considers that'ihe sudden illumination followed by abreaction
and catharsis is linked to effects of psychoanalytical methods of
bringing repressed complexes into a patient's consciousnes~.U
Koestler looks at processes which underlie scientific discovery
and artistic originality, and tries to isolate the unconscious portions.
Science cannot create something out of nothing. It can only
combine parts of events and discover hidden territories, making
better telescopes to find new stars. It co~~ects residues which
were disregarded before. It removes a veil. The neglected some-
things out of which a ne'Y, !~ge is fathomed become apparent in
a spontaneous illumination. It may well be that a shred of evidence
makes the transformation possible. But often it is not even depend-
ing on any new information. Often the new comes from an original
correlation, from an uncovering or selecting or reshuffling or com-
97
bining of facts or ideas or skills or faculties which were all known
before in isolation or in different contexts.
In such arrangements, which produce the new solutions, we find
large chunks of irrationality. The human sources for these fresh
approaches and patterns can only come from an unknown, from
the underground layers of the mind. They are reached through
a temporary regression to earlier, less specialized and more primi-
tive levels of the human mentality.
Referring to this recour~e to primitiv~~bconscious levels,
Koestler likes to speak repeat~ly of "recuyr pour sauter mieux",
which means a walking back to \Uil for ~/jump. To dive into such
depth is always a leap into the d~rk, ;1tld the diver is more likely
to come up with a handful of mud\~bah to grab a coral. Only when
he comes up into the light, in our':fourth step of verification, can
he see whether he found anything\ In this level, which comes
always post factum, will the creative\act be completed.
Turning to details, Koestler the writer starts his factual induc-
tions with an investigation of the character of humor, of the cause
of laughter. He selects this area becaus~ he finds here a sharply
defined bodily response, a true reflex which can be observed for
verification. He looks closely at a few samples of funny stories.
In the happ days of La Ronde, a dazzling b penniless Austrian
officer tried to tain the favors of a fa onable courtesan. To
shake off the unwa d suitor gracio y, she explained that her
heart was, alas, no Ion eplied politely: "Madame, I
never intended to aim that · h."
Koestler quotes another s y, told by Chamfort, of a Marquis
at the Court of Louis X . Enterin: the boudoir of his wife, the
Count finds her in arms of a Bis . The startled husband
walks over to th open window and star
people in the eet. His wife cries out what e doing and he
answers: ')fonseigneur is performing my functio so I am
performing his."
Koestler endeavors to analyze why St1eh jokes are funny and
why we laugh. He states that we do so because we have had our
levels shifted with a sudden shock. We suddenly were turned to
98
something which we did not expect, to something entirely differ-
ent. In our first story..of the Au rian officer we moved a metaphor-
ic reference of "aimint'--and · mped to the different bodily meaning
of the aim. Our Marquis QEitated the lines of action which we
expect by jumping from e me~g of a "function" in a marital
relation to a profession reference Of--the clergyman.
So, humor consists of connecting several somethings which be-
fore had no apparent kinship. We are torn from an accustomed
association into a different groove, into a bi-sociation. Our hab-
itual level is suddenly broken and we are thrown on an unexpected
second lower ground. We become, unintentionally, multi-headed
instead of remaining level-headed.
We may illustrate this ooos-,mere with a jok~ whiGh I like "0J:Y'"
maGh~ A man comes every Friday after office hours to the same
bar for years, and orders always two martinis, which he drinks
one after the other. One evening he orders only one and downs
it fast. The bartender asks what has happened and our man replies
that years ago he used to go with a friend to a bar, every Friday
after the office, for a drink, and the friend died in the war. Ever
since, he has always continued and has always set up another
drink for his dead friend. The bartender considers this explanation
but wants to know why there was only one drink tonight. And
he receives the answer: "Oh, I gave up drinking."
In the smooth flow of this story, we are here jolted from the
level of a symbolic act-of drinking to the friend's memory-to
our man's physical consumption of alcohol-the unexpected bi-
sociation.
The shifting to hidden connections is found, by Koestler, not
just in humor but in all great discoveries of science. All innovations
consist of sudden shifts of attention which place the emphasis
from the usual and expected to some previously overlooked aspect.
The inventor sees, all at once, something which was omitted be-
fore. The great source of discovery is an unclassified residue, or
method, which was formerly selected out.
Koestler advances many examples. We will mention only Ein-
stein's Theory of Relativity, which was derived from a connection
99
of Maxwell's electromagnetic field theories with astronomy. Or,
in earlier times, Galileo's laws of gravity which came to him
from the movements of heavy balls.~
What is found behind ,humor or beyond scientific creative acts
also appears in all branches' o a . embrandt's "Man with the
Golden Helmet" shows the ce an old man, but through the
technique and behind t physical fa~hine the intimate struggles
of a whole life.
What makes the person perform and succeed in this central
act of bi-sociation--of leaving his associative groove and of find-
ing the "other" ground-is not known. It can only be irrational,
and it can only come from judgement, from the totality which
exists under all special knowledge. The more familiar the separate
parts, the more striking and unexpected will be the new connection
to a new whole which emerges spontaneously from the depth of
the unconsciousness.
To say it again in other words: Every great discovery has to
go beyond the sterile avenues of the special field, mostly into
channels of a different land. It is obvious that solutions could not
come from special experience or from conventional conceptual
knowledge. The problem has to be transferred from the structure
under which it was first apprehended to an entirely different con-
text. Such a solution can only come from an insight into another
aspect of totality. An ability has to be mobilized which cannot be
analytic and which cannot be preponderantly intellectual.-
Every child must develop out of his unconsciousness and ir-
rationality the organic skill to walk upright and to form his organs
in speech. Intellect, reason and speech grow in every child through
his own efforts and can grow only from his pre-existing irrationality.
As man grows up, his irrationality gives more and more room to
his increasing intellect, reason and perceptions. But the spiritual
powers are never fully lost in the adult, and it is this ~
residue from which all creative emanations come forth.
In the second part of his book, Koestler is concerned with exten-
sions of his principles into natural science. He points to the strange
fact of organic life-that every part is a sub-whole comprised of
100
parts, but is itself also a part of a larger sub-whole and whole.
There are everywhere patterns of relations. Partial processes are
manipulated on the next higher level as a unit.12 The hierarchies of
~us sub-wholes are surrounded ~rarchies of environ-
ments and by hierarchies of feed-backs.
In his outlook on natural science, Koestler stresses the strange
regenerative powers of living bodies. If I cut my finger, the body
grows back the cells up to a restoration of the proper substance,
form and previous structure, not a bit less and not a bit more.
This strange force of forming and growing, under a precise code
of a species, appears from birth to death of every human being,
every animal, and every plant. We encounter self-regulating, intrin-
sic codes which assure to parts the status of a sub-whole.
Whenever we look at a certain particular entity and consider it
as an autonomous whole, we must be aware that it is composed
of other parts and sub-wholes and that it is itself a part of another
whole. Every analysis, every recognition of an appearing reality,
requires, therefore, at least at some time, a view of a field which
surrounds and influences in totality our object.
Every creative act moves in a field where it locates previously
unconnected frames of references. This overall awareness comes in
leaps of the imagination, under spontaneous intuition. We en-
counter a connection of many disciplines at which our analytical
views can look only in isolation.
Such inspirations are, unfortunately, often wrong and are proved
to be wrong when cold verification marches after the hunches.
Koestler states flatly that up to ninety percent of all insights are
worthless.13 Even the great Einstein wasted two full years of his
life on work which never showed results. The ingenious inventor
Edison spent his last years on lightweight storage batteries which
never succeeded.
It is ak0ady- difficult to investigate a small selected sector in
depth with conventional, specialized, scientific methods. It is
even much more difficult and risky to gain the overall awareness.
It has been said that genius is, to a great extent, sweat. It is not
true, as far as the creative insight-the leap-is concerned. All
101
the sweat on earth would not help Simple Simon. But it is true,
as far as the incessant follow-up of verification is concerned, where
tons of sand must be sifted through the sieves to retain a few
g¢8W nuggets.
In our age of complicated factual and conceptual situations, the
genial hunches must be highly educated hunches. Luck or insight
comes only to the few who are well conditioned. They must be
able and prepared to search in knowledge and to follow up by
proper methods. The third step of inspiration comes only to those
-and not even to many of them-who can take the first, the
second, and the fourth steps. There is a constant interrelation of
all four processes, and an interaction among all of them. Grace
can be bestowed only on a few of the many who are competent
and who are forever striving.
We do not know what the spark really is which welds the parts
into a new whole. It exists outside of rational-observational knowl-
edge. It is irrational. It resides in the unconscious emotional layers
of the mind. Where this subconsciousness could dwell physically,
is a senseless question. Dr. Schweitzer's glands will not differ from
the glands of John F. Kennedy's murderer, ,an4 :Einstein's dis-
coveries can hardly be explained by his bodily.ses~s; ·'--'~,
We speak here of intangible functions which are superim-
posed on physical-chemical aspects. There is a world of difference
between our description or observation or rational localization of
the irrational spark or leap and the leap itself. The printed menu
is not the meal andeloes-nontill-eu~, although it describes
in symbols food and classifies it and guides us to action which
leads to the real food. Here again, w~_A..i.uit1~Ievelness of
many aspects.
B. Confirmation by Computer Experts and by St. Augustine
The irrational foundations of all knowledge have been con-
.----"\ fessed in many tongues. Vo ¥· ·--~
\ / / , Surprisingly, w.e1iml such confirmation in a very technical field
)~/ /which should be dominated by rational logic. Specialists of the
,/ / "data-processing science" have called attention to similarities
I i
I I I 102
between functions of the human nervous system and the mechani-
cal operations of electronic computers. The feed-back mechanism,
for instance, seems to suggest parallels to human controls. Mechan-
ical research may profit from investigations of mental activities and
-in opposite direction-the mechanical processes may lead to a
simplified understanding of mental functions.14
This cannot mean that mechanical engineers could copy natural
structures. The wheel does not have any counterpart in animals'
organs, yet it performs, functionally, similar to legs of animals.15
Da Vinci observed birds and tried to construct flying machines
after their pattern. But, this did not work and the actual technical
solution came much later, from the discovery of aerodynamic
principles and from the availability of small power machines which
could drive huge screws through the air.
There will be a similarity of functions and a great difference of
organization. This applies also to data-processing, which uses
automated machinery to collect and operate data in pre-set pat-
terns and computations. Still, the experts of the new field are
greatly interested in the structure and manifestations of human
thoughts and percepts. They have suggested the combining of teams
of psychologists, physiologists and engineers to research together
laws which underlie thought and to look together for the proper
ways of mechanical simulation of such functions.16
Let us now go back many centuries to an antique civilization
and turn to St. Augustine.
In his Confessions, which were written A. D. 399, St. Augustine
dealt with the integrated complex actions of irrational powers, of
reasoning and of senses. Under the unifying category of "Memory",
he expressed thoughts which come close to modem opinions and
which are clothed in words of moving beauty.17
In the storehouse of the memory he finds, distinct and interming-
ling, the sensual impressions,18 the thoughts and all our learning,19
and the "ideas".20
It is all there, past and present, and in a mode which is different
from present experience. I may recall that I was cheerful, but I
am not cheerful now.21
103
I'
It is not easy to say whether all this runs by images, or what in
reality it may be.22 In memory, man meets himself and more than
himself. He remembers what he has done and experienced and
what he has been told in the past. He can meditate on it, and
can weave it into new events and he can picture hope for the
future.23
In his words, St. Augustine restates our statement of the co-
existence of percepts, concepts and of irrationality.
c. The Modern Rediscovery of the Soul
/ In the eighteenth century, the emotions and irrational powers
were ignored completely, as far as faculties of understanding and
of knowledge were concerned, and this contempt carried over
into the nineteenth century.
Striving for another monism, David Hume tried to reduce all
human knowledge to perception. Our thoughts and our imagina-
tion are, to him, only separating and combining perceived parts
to new secondary units.24 l
Under perceptions, he included internal impressions and not
just data of external events. Emotions covering also love and
hatred become here, in his words, lively ideas or impressions.
It might be that Hume had some doubts about his hierarchic
order and that he wanted to safeguard his opinion by the vague
qualification "lively". We find him saying in another context25 that
reason is a slave of passions, serving and obeying them. In an-
other spot26 he even stated that men are in great measure governed
by "interests".
I In the days of enlightenment, the emphasis was shifted from
Hume's perception to the monistic power of reason. The new
rationalists believed in a future society where reason unclouded
by emotions would guide human conduct and would lead to a
morally pure world. Men have only to be educated and have only to
learn and they will become good.
These days will never come,27 for emotions are a natural part
of men, just as senses and thoughts are. Man does not only think
or observe, he is also a creature of impulse; he is demanding and
104
fearing and loving and hating. You must close your eyes to a
vehemently active part of human beings if you consider them
mainly filled with intelligence and reason.
The Age of Enlightenment actually impoverished man's knowl-
edge of himself and his controls by ignoring vital powers which
were outside the revered reasoning powers. Marcus Aurelius
listed with equal rights beside each other; the body, the soul, and
the intelligence. "To the body belong sensations, to the intelligence
principles and to the soul appetites." 'And he placed intelligence in
proper perspective: "To have intelligence that guides to things
which appear suitable belongs also to those who betray their
country and do impure deeds when their doors are shut. There
remains that which is particular to the good man, namely not to
defile the divinity which is planted in his breast." 28
Awed by the revolution in natural science, only a few small
groups in the nineteenth century and in the beginning of the
twentieth dared to remain aware of the spiritual and of the irration-
al. The general rebirth of a recognition of the irrational soul-
of the "subconscious"-came suddenly from an unexpected comer.
Blindness against emotions and hostility against them brought a
generation of intelligent and educate~eople deeper and deeper
into neurotic and hysteric symptoms. Looking for new medical
treatments for such mental disturbances, the physician Sigmund
Freud stumbled on new methods and new insights. His psycho-
analysis, which actually included a synthesis in every case, helps
the patient to relax on a couch in a darkened room and to break
down the intellectual barriers across his soul. Talking out loud in
free associations, the treated person gives vent to underlying sub-
conscious drives which dwell in a realm that is not intellectually
controlled: in dreams or accidental mistakes of speech or actions,
in associations to old memories.
Fr--eud's method i is tm{y an artificially induced regeneration
thrpugh a penetrati~:>n to irrational Iayerhhe-new approach was
revolutionary. The experts first smiled, then accepted slowly and
finally overboard, with the result that today there is a strange over-
application of Freudianism-seeing the subconscious everywhere.29
105
To ignore or to hide the irrational side of man and of the uni-
verse can only give an incomplete view and can present only a
thesis which requires a close look at the antithesis to come closer
to the whole truth. We are today, at least most of us, far removed
from the downgrading of irrational judgements and emotions to
secondary perceptions or reflections.30 We have gone away from
the opinion that "belier• is only a "lively idea related to a present
impression."31
That human beings live in an integrated totality of unconscious-
ness and consciousness cannot be ignored any more. Most of
man's life is spent in an unconscious process in which his roots
are grown and his actions are rooted, and in which all his habitual
skills are moving.
This does not mean that we now value less verifications by
perception or the ordering force of concepts. It only means that
we admit another equally important cause, namely, the irrational
judgement and insight. It means also that we must remain aware
of the plurality in our world and in our theories of knowledge.
D. Irrational Elements in Methods of Knowledge
So far, we have looked at great gifts of great men, at the cre-
tive powers of Planck, Russell, Einstein, St. Augustine. We have
tried to isolate and to inspect the irrational elements in the glorious
breakthroughs of giants in science or art.
Apparently, our geniuses were not just blessed with genial ir-
rational imagination. Mostly, they were also superb craftsmen
and technicians. All their abilities were on a peak-their irration-
ality, perceptions, reasoning and perseverance.
Naturally, we find mixtures of different grades-the values-
of the various abilities. Some of the great discoveries were left to
the perceptual verification by others. Maxwell, ~.
did not even live to see the proofs of his theory of electro-magnetic
fields or waves. Einstein, a theoretical physicist, never conducted
an experiment in his life and had to wait for years until the ex-
perimenters pronounced his postulates as factually correct.
106
We have, so far, talked about unusually gifted people, about
extremes of creativity and irrational power. We spoke of the
/~~ leaps. The world is, however, mainly populated by smaller
v'-' Al!y; so, too, in science and art. What we found evident in the work
of great men shows in gigantic proportions and in clarity the
elements of irrationality. But we encounter the same characteristics
also in the rank and file, in lieutenants and sergeants and privates
of science and art.
Creativity, with its irrational elements, is not even a peculiarly
human gift. It is merely a high manifestation which is discernible
on successive levels of an evolutionary hierarchy reaching from
the one-celled organism to the common adult man and to the
genius.82
In the field of human knowledge, we can accordingly trace the
irrational portions all the way through the modest accomplishments
and to the grind of common work. Whenever knowledge is prac-
ticed, the irrational element appears on every step. Negatively
spoken, it is the "I do not know" and the "nobody knows". But,
positively it is just as well the "I feel sure of' and "everybody
feels assured". From such irrational substrata of man-of the
knowing man-stream all energy, all judgement, and all forming
int~. which.kno~ledge is cast. r.,r~JU ,~uch ·~~b~~rat1l(shi~~ .tb~ .li~~~
of ~USiasm -the Greek W&d,---entheo;('- tlie God-Within.
The irrational portion, the emotional judgement, penetrates all
steps of knowledge of all men who know, even on the lowest
possible level. The mind functions, whenever it functions, intel-
lectually and emotionally and in sensual perception-all in one.
107
Chapter VIII
LANGUAGE-THE INCARNATION
OF KNOWLEDGE
KNOWLEDGE is acquired, expressed and communicated through
language. We intend to look here mainly at the relations between
methods of knowledge and language. We are not concerned about
requirements of effective writing;1 nor are we interested in verbal
definitions of principal terms.2
A. Symbolic Character of Speech and Writing
Language consists of speech and writing. Speech is a system
of symbolic sounds designed to convey information. Writing3 pre-
sents visual symbols for existing vocal symbols; therefore, it is
a symbolization twice removed from reality.
We must recognize that the physico-chemical process of pro-
ducing words, or the technical process of producing written ma-
terial, are aiming at the symbolic aspects but are very different
from them. The meaning is a function, intangible, although pro-
duced by the tangible physical events of speech or writing or print-
ing. In meaning, we have an unrealistic functional superstructure
over realistic physico-chemical actions. Language, as such, is a
process of the human condition, integrating physical actions,
thoughts and irrationality and directing them toward an integrated
end.
B. Structure of Language and Knowledge
Bertrand Russell once remarked4 that a study of the syntax of
108
language may lead to considerable knowledge of the structure
of the world. Most likely he meant by this not the metaphysical
reality of the world, but the totality of appearances. We should,
however, distinguish more carefully between the observed ·event,
the speech-symbol and the meaning. Words are not thoughts and
thoughts are not events, interrelated though they all may be.
Not enough attention seems to be given to such differences of
structure and we will have to find our way almost without guidance.
The differences may become clearer when we use a bit of imagina-
tion for an example. Suppose I walk around the Empire State
Building in New York City. While my feet move over the pave-
ment, my eyes glide up and along the huge walls of stone and
glass, from bottom to top and from left to right. I tum the comer
and continue looking up and down and sideways. I tum the next
comer and then the next one, returning to the spot where I
started. I have now completed a tour around the outside of one
complex event, the Empire State Building. I have collected sense-
data in a succession of space-time as I walked along. When I
translate my impressions into language, the structure of my des-
cription can easily follow and copy the order of my successive
collection of data. Although the event-the building-is one
complex particularity and actually has not the separations which I
experienced during my walk, I had actually strung out and seen
my subjective perceptions as I walked along and looked. My
speech will easily and properly be parallel to the structure of
my experience, although it will not be parallel to the actual ob-
jective event.
That the medium of language is radically different was already
noticed in the eighteenth century by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing,
in his Laokoon.5 Comparing sculpture and painting with poetry,
he concluded that the form and color of bodies can be simulated
well in visual arts, but that action lends itself well only to poetry.
He contended that we experience an emphasis on space in bodies-
leading to visual arts- and an emphasis on time actions-pointing
to poetry. We would prefer to broaden Lessing's statements to say:
Whenever we apply language, we translate impressions of events
109
into strung-out descriptions, presenting a timely succession in
linear movements.
We have so far looked at perceptions; we move now to ex-
pressions of thoughts or concepts. It might be expected that think-
ing and reasoning exist in linear patterns and could, therefore,
be copied easily in language which also has linear categories.
However, even here we seem to encounter basic differences. Many
of our thoughts are not quite linear. They are, to a great extent,
clustered.
The thoughts in our minds are mostly imbedded in hierarchic
systems; we are aware of many connections of a particular con-
cept. This awareness comes to us in a flash-instantaneously, or
at least in very rapid succession. Our words cannot come fast
enough to cover more than just a convenient label of a complex,
or one aspect of it, at a time. I think, for instance, of our term,
"knowledge." After all the time I have now spent on this event, the
one term covers in my thoughts innumerable connections, con-
clusions and explanations in its particular complex. But language
is limited and can express in one instant only either the complex
or a certain aspect of it. Language must, again, revert to a struc-
ture of linear expressions as soon as it wants to deal with a con-
ception.
Language encounters similar problems when it turns to des-
criptions of emotions and irrational judgements. Here, linguistics
can lead to only approximate understandings which must be
aided by imagery and by allusions. Poetry presents an obvious
example.
Above all these structural differences, we must recognize that
knowledge is hardly ever just perception or concepts or irrational
judgement. It is always all of them in one complex interaction. As
soon as we use words, we must spread out this cluster into suc-
cessive linear descriptions. Our linguistic structure has to translate
the structure of interrelations, and it will always be radically dif-
ferent from the structure of our event of knowledge in this
respect.
We also seem to possess built-in powers which help us to ex-
110
perience the different objects in their particular structure behind
the linguistic symbols. I read a book or listen to a speaker and I
seem to be aware of the proper event itself in its external appear-
ance. I hardly notice that I am exposed only to symbolic letters or
sounds, and I am also not aware any more of the different struc-
tures. The actual event comes toward me in all its glory of inter-
mingled facts and thoughts and emotions.
C. Technical Dialects
In almost every branch of science, the specialists have arrived
at special technical languages. The technical languages use the
same linguistic structures which ordinary speech and writing use.
Only the vocabularies-the nouns and adjectives and verbs-are
partly different. Such jargons are, therefore, still on common
ground with ordinary language. It would be better to describe
these as technical dialects.
Special sciences have, obviously, a legitimate need for such
technical dialects. Daily common speech covers wide territories of
all human experiences and will often be too vague to serve properly
the requirements of precise scientific work. On the other hand,
such private languages become less and less understandable to
outsiders. It has come to the point that a learned man finds it
difficult to talk about his field with people who are not members
of his profession.
This becomes really serious in the cultural area.6 Here, the
affected events are activities of human beings who live in ordinary
language. The results of scientific processing have to move back
into the social realm of ordinary people who have normal speech
habits. The man who is being tried in Court, for instance, has a
human right and a civil right to understand why he is sent to jail.
He has a human right and a civil right that the evidence for him
and against him is collected and evaluated within the bounds of
normal language which the witnesses and he can grasp.
Something should be done so that technical things remain spe-
cific but still are understandable to the common man. Jargons
111
will have to mend their ways to come close to such a compromise,
in all sciences including philosophy.7
Improvement can be accomplished if we first examine carefully
whether any special term is really necessary. There exists, at
present, a general admiration for complicated words which cover
simple facts. The "unrealized learning potential" still means only
that the pupil does not work hard enough. There should be an
effort made to find simple terms for complicated thoughts, instead
of using complicated language to convey simple ideas.
Whenever science coins a new word it should also make an
effort under our double standard to be specific for the specialist and
still understandable for the layman. In the new Cybernetics, the
word "feedback" was an excellent choice. But the official name of
this new branch of science, "Cybernetics", represents a bad offense.
Whoever uses a technical term should consider whether it
could be replaced by a word which is generally understandable.
Many people in the field of study undertaken by this book speak
of theories of knowledge and values, not of Epistemology or
Axiology. It may sometimes be necessary to list the old terms in
parenthesis until the new usage is gradually established. If such
streamlining is done carefully, the new language will not lose
precision in communication with the specialists and will gain
general understanding.
D. General Semantics and Philosophers of Language
Several philosophical movements have addressed themselves
to linguistics as the base of an ideology of knowledge.
Alfred Korzybski founded General Semantics. This movement re-
volves around the relation between understanding and language.
Language is the start of all investigations; we should therefore
look at the influence language has on our thoughts and interpre-
tations. Korzybski warns that our present language is way behind
the times. We still use words for substances, properties and forces
which science has long rejected. We still say, for instance, that
the sun rises. We still state that "it" rains. Because of our speech
112
habits the heat "flows", the cat "grins", the boy has "broken" his
arm, life has "left" a man, and someone "has" a neurosis.
Korzybski's principal book has the title Science and Sanity: An
Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics.8
The reference to sanity points to the therapeutical value which he
expects from proper linguistic usage. In psychological treat-
ments to which his followers have actually applied his principles,
the patient's "everything always goes wrong with me" should be
replaced by "it seems that a lot of things are not working out
right now."
The stand against Aristotelian logic as reflected in the title of
Korzybski's work, attacks the limits of a conceptual system which
works with only all or nothing. Korzybski tries to replace this by
finer small values between the extremes, and he applies this to
linguistics. To accomplish this, he suggests the use of indexes
which will distinguish an individual from his membership in a
group. We should not just say that Miller was a Nazi,"N". We
should rather describe him as N1, to separate him from N2 and
N3 to Nn-all of whom have other relevant distinctions.
He also suggests a time index. Our Nazi, N1, will have been
different in 1944 and 1966; we should therefore label him ac-
cordingly as N1-1944 or N1-1966. We should fit our linguistic
maps better to our territories.
The attention which General Semantics draws to increased pre-
cision of language represents a certain contribution to methods
of knowledge. Sometimes, more precision will be helpful-although
it will often be adequate to apply common usage. We may need
fine tolerances when we build a precision instrument, but it would
be a waste of time to build, say, a garage to a thousandth of an
inch.
It seems, however, to be a monistic over-simplification to expect
clearer reasoning from improvements in language. Knowledge
means an interaction and integration of observation, thoughts and
judgements, and also of language. It would be more effective to
improve reasoning within its own realm, and remain aware of
the interconnection of the totality of all levels of recognition.
113
A bit related to Korzybski's indexing seems to be the so-
called theory of truth by Neurath and Hempel which Bertrand
Russell has reported.9 Here, someone says that he saw a table
in the room. He should rather have said: "I report now at 3:17
P.M. that I have perceived in my mind a table at 3:16 which was
there in the room at 3: 15." I am afraid that common sense will ob-
ject to so much wisdom. The time intervals do not seem important
and are not even correct. In reality, the intervals must have been
much shorter, only fractions of seconds, and will have been so
short that they were practically negligible and hardly noticeable.
Going much further than this theory of truth, several modern
philosophers have considered language as the one and only entity
which we are able to investigate in the totality of knowledge. This
opinion was first presented by Russell and by Ludwig Wittgen-
stein.10
Here, language is ranked as the ultimate unit of knowledge.
Reality may exist and may produce appearances which we per-
eeive, and we may arrive at thoughts and may use emotional
judgements. But the argument is now that we can experience all
of this only in the flesh of language, only as far as we are forming
our recognition in significant verbal propositions. We own only
word-pictures, and knowledge means only a totality of sentences.11
According to this view, all we know is language and whereof we
cannot speak, we must be silent. However, it should be remembered
that all great creative progress has come from people who asked
questions which could not be answered.
The creed of the "ordinary language philosophers", as they like
to call themselves, actually pushes Kant's limitations of theoretical
reason back to language.12 How do I know that this color is red?
It would be a sufficient answer to say that I have learned English.
A verbal sentence now becomes the incarnation and model of
reality. Kant's categories are now replaced by principles of the
internal structure of language.13 Under Kant, such categorical con-
ditions are prior to sensual experiences and can, in themselves, not
be experience. In similar fashion, according to Wittgenstein, the
114
structure of language is prior and cannot be expressed in words; it
exists before words.
Such a belief is highly questionable and is not supported by any
factual verification. To a genuine a-priorist, Kantian or otherwise,
the factual proof comes after the principles and cannot be turned
around. Such a belief in language overlooks tremendous differences
between the structure of language, the structure of thoughts and
the structure of observations, which we have tried to point out
earlier in this chapter.
The retreat to language raises the interesting question of how
any statements can be verified-we live, after all, by verification,
in science as well as in daily chores. The language philosophers
have admitted that it would hardly be good enough to prove one
sentence by looking at another sentence.
They have tried to solve the dilemma by pouring old wine into
a new bottle. A verbal statement is now considered meaningful, or
may we dare to say valid, when it is either analytic-in other
words, broken down into other small atomic sentences-or when
it is possible for experience to render it as probable.14 This is
called a weaker requirement of empirical verification. Even in this
cautious wording, our language philosophers seem to jump beyond
the limits of the analysis of language.
Wittgenstein apparently became doubtful about his own con-
tentions later in his life. He was not certain later on that even
language could serve for systematic principles.15 He considered
language only as a shifting social agreement which is based on
unprovable assumptions. On the other hand, language remains
still the only accessible ultimate reality. In this situation, philosophy
and assured human knowledge really lose all the ground under
their feet. Philosophy becomes now merely an activity whose
modest purpose is to make clearer and sharper our verbal ex-
pressions, which would otherwise remain opaque and blunt. There
is no longer any room left for philosophical methods or for
methods of knowledge, not even within the area of language.
There are only different therapies, and the whole cluster of
philosophy may now condense into a drop of grammar.16
115
Wittgenstein instituted a strong following, the so-called Vienna
School,17 which developed his theme in more or less independent
variations.
When we try to evaluate these language philosophies, we find
that the early Wittgenstein mainly shifted old Kantian distinctions
to the foreground level of linguistics. Hardly anything new was
gained, and important distinctions of level concerning perception,
concepts and judgement were lost, or at least blurred. Wittgenstein
later threw away intellectual tools of long standing and effect in
favor of a mere polishing of verbal statements.
The language philosophies, every one of them, represent, again,
a monism. Taken at face value, as they are meant, they make
methods of knowledge poorer and less precise. One approach, in
this case, language, is singled out and all others are swept under
the carpet, as residues.
Opposing the language schools on the firm ground of factual
experimentation, Vygotsky18 restored the plurality of distinction
between language on the one side and percepts as well as con-
cepts and judgements on the other. His work was important enough
to give it some attention.
Vygotsky was a Russian child-psychologist who worked between
1920 and his death in 1934, mainly as a researcher in educational
methods. He designed tests with wooden blocks of different shapes
and colors. A nonsensical word was written on the bottom of
each test block. The student had to sort the blocks and to find the
associations to the nonsensical words. This permitted a separation
of a later synthesis between observation, thoughts and verbal
symbols.19
The test was given to different age groups. From tabulated re-
sults, Vygotsky concluded different stages of development in the
formation of abstract thoughts and of verbal associations.
It should be obvious that thoughts can be non-verbal and that
speech may be non-intellectual. Vygotsky's work proved these
obvious facts. He found that small children gradually grow verbal
meanings. They first associate only in vague images which remain
complex, comparable to a family name. The notion covers the
116
total particular object-a mother or a dog-and does not dis-
tinguish abstract discrete elements. Gradually, the child analyzes
such elements in spontaneous concepts. Later, under the influence
of schools, such concepts are placed into systematic order and be-
come scientific.
Based on his experiments, Vygotsky discovered behind oral
speech a different inner speech which is neither vocalized nor
communicated, but consists still of verbal thought-images. Such
inner speech is not only silent, but also vaguer, more abbreviated
and faster than the spoken words.
Behind the inner speech hide the thoughts, and behind the
thoughts lurk the affective tendencies. To understand another
person's actual speech fully may often require one to guess at
his contexts of thought and even to be aware of his emotional
motivations and affiliations.
What is shown here genetically, as a development of children in
successive steps, exists functionally in the adult simultaneously: the
verbal meaning, the inner speech, the complex concepts, the spon-
taneous notions and the scientifically ordered tongue-images. In
all this, we encounter fluctuating processes with delicate inter-
relations.
All this proves that language cannot be equated with thinking,
and that we can separate language from thoughts or percepts. The
proper position of language shows it as one of many aspects of
knowledge and of methods, giving a body to communication and
a form to our elements of knowledge. It exists in integration with
all other levels of methods.
As far as the form of language is concerned, it has to live
up to many standards. It should be general and specific, it should
be technical and still somehow vernacular. To top it all, it should
have warmth and energy and should convey with ease and simpli-
city certain ideas which are often neither easy nor simple.
Within such requirements, language surely does not belong to
fine arts. But we could truthfully call it an applied art; we find
that its usage stems from elements which speakers and writers will
have in common with poets. To speak well or to write effectively
117
comes from an aesthetic taste, and from a skill which in itself
means an integration of observations, concepts and emotional
judgements.
Verbal ability has blessed Nietzsche and Schopenhauer and
Wittgenstein and has poured a warm glow over their ideologies.
Lack of such ability has hampered Immanuel Kant's work and
the messages of many others. Indeed, the account of the sixth
day of the Genesis could have been written: He gave them speech
and they gained knowledge.
ItS
Chapter IX
EXISTENTIALISM-AND ITS IMPACT ON
METHODS OF KNOWLEDGE
WHEN MAN turned to reason and modern science and dissolved
his old affiliations, he gained tremendously in knowledge, power
and material affluence. But he also suffered heavy losses.1
His spiritual and emotional assurances began to shrink. He
no longer belonged to an earthwide genus. But fortunately, he was
also not left alone. He became a species, a member of a particular
group; he acquired the habit of joining a division of companions.
Existentialism represents such a group. It is mainly involved in
religion, in literature and in general philosophy. But we will see
that it can also have a powerful impact on methods of knowledge.
A. Existentialism-Purpose and Forerunners
All existentialists, whatever differences they may have among
themselves, are set against the imperialistic claims of abstract
science. It is a characteristic of science to cut selected fragments
from complex events and to form corresponding thought-images
which are ordered in hierarchies. Such a method cannot mirror
movements or processes. But it can simulate flux by a summation
of static points of reference. This is bound to work well on inert
matter or on events which move in definite patterns. Abstract
science is less successful when it has to deal with life. It becomes
119
embarrassed in biology when it tries to reduce everything to chemi-
cal-physical aspects, letting life escape as a neglected residue.2
Abstractions are even less satisfactory when they tum on human
actions-in all social sciences and humanities. The observed
processes involve here a complex of alternative human decisions
which evade the mechanical static translations. When I sit in my
study, my senses acquaint me only with the internal surfaces-
walls, ceilings and floors. But this does not represent by any
means the sum-total of the world in which I consider myself situ-
ated at that moment.
I meet existence when I look at the world as it is around me,
the way a peasant looks at it while he plows his soil. And I meet
the existentialists as soon as I tum to such an attitude.
The word "exist" refers linguistically to all that is out there,
outside of ourselves, as part of the universe. This means a recogni-
tion of an individual's position within the universe. Existentialism
views the human being and every other object as a particular
whole, in the total context.
In Greek mythology we read of Tantalus, the human son of
Zeus, who was permitted to share the table of the gods. Yielding
to the temptation of testing divine knowledge, he slaughtered his
own son Pelops and served pieces of the body as a dish at the
heavenly table. Enraged, the gods banned Tantalus to the under-
world and restored Pelops to unity and new life. He was reborn
by the mercy of the gods after having been murdered and cut
to pieces by his father.3 Existentialism strives to bring this re-
birth to the sons whom the abstracting scientists have cut to
fragmented pieces.
In his view of particular entities, the existentialist needs a truth
which is more than mere intellectual coherence and more than a
correspondence to fragments. Heidegger gave expression to such
a general truth.4 It appears when you are open to the "being" out-
side of yourself, and it does not matter whether you can express
this assurance in words.
The common ground into which all existentialists are rooted is
this very attitude, that reality must be felt immediately in every
120
particular totality. The ultimate unit lives in its birthright within
the surroundings and not just as a mere bundle of exemplifications
of this and that theoretical component; it cannot be grasped as a
summation of conceptual universals of thought.
The question arises, where does an existentialist go from here,
from this common opinion? The direction of such further moves
differentiates individual existentialists greatly, from deeply religious
men to atheistic activists, and from deniers of any order to sys-
tematic philosophers.
Strangely enough, Hegel, in his striving for conceptual under-
standing of changes and movements, already used terms which
sounded close to those of existentialism. However, whenever he
used such words he was actually only adding another intellectual
concept and a new abstracted fragment.
This applies also to Husser!, the founder of Phenomenology.5
While he considers particular organic entities as the principal units
of investigation, he takes pains to ensure that his method strives
to be a science of pure thought,6 merely describing the a-priori
essentials in fragmentary essences.7
We come to the core of existentialism when we tum to Bergson.8
He belongs there, body and soul, and it appears strange that he is
usually not mentioned as a member of the family. To get the
movement and rhythm of a total complex event, he urges us to
raise intuition to a recognitive power. For this, it is not necessary
to transport ourselves outside of the domain of senses and con-
sciousness.9 Rather, we have to apply a totality of mental abilities
in organic union, meaning senses plus thoughts plus irrational
emotional insight, which illuminates the other elements of recog-
nition.
In this intuitive existential view, Bergson sees a second method
of knowledge, complementary and supplementary to science; both
enter into each other in theory as well as in practice.
B. Kierkegaard and the Philosophers Jaspers and Heidegger
Quite some time before Bergson, and apparently not known to
121
him, Soren Kierkegaard gave the deepest expression to existential-
ism.10
Troubled in his faith as a Christian and disgusted with the organ-
izational and rationalistic pre-occupations of his church-the
"System"-he turned to the individual man. All religion seemed
to him a free relationship of a particular human being to God, and
everybody had to save himself.
Kierkegaard presented his creed in many forms, from many
angles, in very different styles and modes. His love for dialectics
went so far that he published his books, which were hardly bought
or read in his lifetime, under different pen-names, giving a par-
ticular style and character to each name. He was an essayist, a
philosopher and a theologian, and he could even be a rude jour-
nalist in his last attacks on Denmark's Lutheran Church. His
books have tremendous scope. They are partly religious in pur-
pose and spirit, and they are partly, intentionally, un-religious.
He probes all sides co-present in man, and he probes them with
a poet's penetration.
His faith begins where reason leaves off and can be reached
only by a "leap", the qualitative jump into eternity ("ein seliger
Sprung in die Ewigkeif'). Man jumps from earthly ground into the
air of infinity. Here, as a human, he reaches the eternal condition
for a short interval, after which gravity pulls him back again.
In modern psychology we find a fascinating parallel in so-called
"peak-experiences", those rare moments of impact that may hap-
pen to every one of us. We may encounter this when we fall in
love, or when we are entranced by a performance on a stage and
the tears well up in our eyes, or when we make a great discovery.
These moments-the peak-experiences-will shine on for years
after, rare and cherished. There is hardly any human being who
has not been sustained by such glory-fleeting yet everlasting,
and more-or-less intense.
In his last polemic against his church Kierkegaard phrased his
religious creed more clearly, illuminating everything that he had
published before. To be a Christian of the New Testament re-
quired that he forsake everything mortal to which man may cling
122
for the sake of the infinite communion with God. He expressed
this brutally: "God is thy mortal enemy, out of love and for
love, not fulfilling your wishes and filling you with fear and
dread."
As far as the Church was concerned, Kierkegaard did not aim
at reforms or at any replacement of persons. The whole institu-
tion seemed to him to be indefensible-a crime against God.
The German philosophers Jaspers and Heidegger have added
philosophical commentaries to Kierkegaard's reflections. To Jas-
pers we owe the notion that transcendence "encompasses" us,11
designating transcendence as the world and all that it is, including
all men. Science is concerned with an experimental factual world
and "other than reason" is either changed back into reason or
recognized as a limit to reason. But, man is always more than he
knows himself to be. He is encompassed and encompassing.
Science and knowledge are only forms of interpretation. They
recognize something about men, some process which really takes
place, but they never comprehend man as a whole.
Truth, according to Heidegger, can only be shown by calling
attention to it, and faith is life out of the comprehensive.12 Central
to Heidegger is his "being in the world", his "Dasein". Man,
which means, even linguistically, one of many, is placed amidst all
being, above creatures as well as things, within the whole of the
universe. Being in the world is not just a position in space or time.
It exists in total emotional commitment. No experience, be it of
a landscape or of friends or of professional activity, can ever be
without the universal horizon. Individuality and totality are con-
stantly re-uniting. There is an ocean of nothingness from which we
emerge for a short time, but which is always there to swallow us.
This nothingness in itself is part of the universe and not just a
concept.
We owe to Kierkegaard the founding of existentialism and its
depth. We owe to Jaspers and Heidegger the clarifications which
supplement and illuminate our understanding.
123
C. The Anti-Back-world Men: Nietzsche and Sartre
Nietzsche has been recognized as an existentialist posthumously.
Sartre, the best known of all existentialist publicists, followed
closely many of Nietzsche's creeds.
Nietzsche,13 with a poet's insight, distinguished long before Freud
between the Apollonian element in men--contemplation and in-
terpretation-and the Dionysian element-which is fired by will
and visions. Every product of art comes, to him, from a mysterious
union of both areas in an organic particularity.
On the other hand, Nietzsche's attitude towards an external
uriiverse remained completely negative. The things-in-themselves
are not only inaccessible to human faculties, they are also entirely
unnecessary to human life. His Zarathustra speaks with utter con-
tempt of all these "back-world-men."
In the ultimate, man stays as a particular totality on his own
feet. Under his drives of passion and desires, he wants above all
to discharge his strength. All this leads to a philosophy of aggres-
sive action whose aim it is to propagate man not onward but
upward into superman (apparently an allusion to Darwinian
evolution). We should look not to the fatherland, but to the land
of our children.
It is actually Jean-Paul Sartre14 who in our lifetime has made
existentialism widely known and has re-discovered Kierkegaard
as· well as Heidegger. Sartre works in a wide scope, as a writer
of plays, as an essayist, and as a professional professor of philos-
ophy.
The ultimate accessible entity is, also to him, the particular indi-
vidual man in his totality. The environment does not act mechani-
cally on a human subject. Man fulfills himself in action. He is
what he makes of himself and he is always in the process of making
(''faire et en faisant se faire").
In his actions, the human being uses his will within conditions.
Sartre illustrates this by a story. I look at my companion who
starts towards a window for the purpose of letting in some air. He
does this because he is warm. He is not set in·motion by a stim-
ulus (warmth) which provokes a predetermined chain of reactions.
124
He acts freely because he wants to surpass a material situation
which bothers him. Man exists constantly in this way, in relation
to conditions and within them, but not run by them.
Sartre, who fought in the French underground during the Nazi
period, stresses greatly the social obligations of every individual
towards his fellow-beings and the commitment to political and
economic action as the proper free choice of the individual within
conditions.15
Sartre's views are, of course, manifested in his plays.16 Here,
human beings act with and against each other out of choices which
appear to radiate from their opaque totalities. There is no essential
principle or motive which guides them. They are understandable
only from the whole of their actions, through which they affect
their surroundings.
D. The Impact of Existentialism
Sartre made existentialism fashionable about twenty years ago.
Since then, it has gained ground in various areas. It has, naturally,
influenced theology. After all, Kierkegaard, the founder, was mainly
concerned with man's relation to God. We find, for instance,
Tillich17 as an existentialist in the Protestant realm and Martin
Buber18 in the Jewish realm.
Since we are here mainly concerned with methods of knowl-
edge, it is important to tum now to the effects which an existential-
istic view could have on our theories of knowledge and values.
In such applications, the existentialists will strive to experience
the whole around the parts, and the particularities in their totality.
Existentialism will mean: to be aware of the surrounding fields
whenever attention is given to a specific fragment.
In our theories existentialism implies that we pull life back into
dismembered appearances. It does not imply that we tum our back
to any scientific knowledge or investigations; and it does not imply
that we neglect details and precision. It will add the surroundings
and the sub-wholes to the essences and it will move beyond science
into emanations of reality.
125
All this means more of an added emphasis and attitude rather
than a new procedure. But it is an important attitude. Actually,
the great masters of science have almost always lived and worked
this way, although their verbal phrasings may often have sounded
different. We now bring this out into the open and hope to put it
into its proper perspective.
The new view of the existentialistic approach will permeate
methods of knowledge on all steps and in all interrelations. Here
we are going way beyond Bergson, who advocated the total
view as an intuitional second realm beside the sciences. The new
view will affect openly all selections which govern scientific work.
Knowledge as a relation between knower and known consists of
educated judgements at every recognition of a problem. Selections
determine, then, the designs for tentative solutions. Here the
existentialist will cautiously look for fields around the narrow
areas of investigation, for compliments and interferences.
The new view will affect the object, the known. The snappy
isolations of monistic causes and the easy explanations of a de-
ceptive translucence will be considered with suspicion. There
will be more concern for the residues and for the opaqueness of
particular events which we try to clarify.
Materialism, rationalism, humanism and determinism now ap-
pear as theories which are applicable to a specific aspect, every
one of them touching only one side of reality and each of them in
need of being supplemented by the others. We are reminded
again, of our story about the blind beggars.
The existentialistic attitude will extend to every level in our
theories-to perceptions, to concepts, to judgements, and to their
interrelations. To start with perceptions, we refer to Vygotsky and
Bergson and the Gestalt-psychologists who turned to a dynamic
apprehension of particulars in a comprehensive sensual experience.
Perception as such is already an interaction between senses,
categorical thoughts and emotional judgements, all working to-
gether on emanations of an external object.
As for concepts, we like to point to Northrop's concepts by in-
tuition, the thought-images of sensual experience which cover
126
actuality as well as potentialities. Such thought-images, according
to Northrop, are directed on an undifferentiated aesthetic continuum
of the world around us. There, our concepts may either select the
continuum-which would mean a rather vague notion of the
particular entity-or may single out the differentiations-and we
are then in the area of abstractions. But our concepts may also
choose one or a few differentiations within the field of the sur-
rounding continuum. Such a conceptual view would mean exis-
tentialism pure or applied.
In physics, Maxwell's famous electromagnetic theory consid-
ered electricity as produced by influence of the surroundings.
Einstein's Theory of Relativity seems to have been deeply affected
by such field concepts, which he transferred in bi-sociation to new
cosmic areas. The rays which reach me-the observer-from the
sun, left there eight minutes ago. More precisely, the long rays
of light which I see stretched out consist of portions which left
eight, seven, or six minutes ago.
Our position in the universe and the relative position of stellar
bodies towards each other can only be understood and grasped in a
total view of movements towards each other and towards the ob-
server. We have here an outstanding example of the use of exis-
tentialistic attitudes-in field theories, affecting concepts by in-
tuition.
The second level of concepts, according to Northrop, are the
postulates-the pure thoughts which no longer have counter-
parts of images. Protons or neutrons or numbers in mathematics
would belong here. Here, in pure concepts, the existentialist view
has actually been used whenever a great discovery was made.
In a bi-sociation from accustomed constructions, the new intel-
lectual explanation could only come from another aspect of a
total system. The abstractions, also in pure reason, are not only
diversities, but also are sub-wholes, and the parts belong always
to encompassing hierarchies.
When we move to our last faculty of knowledge-to emotional
judgments and insights-we again encounter the immediate par-
ticular apprehensions of totality into which our specific insight
127
must be imbedded. In our existentialist view of particularities and
encompassing totalities we never doubt that the ability to isolate
elements from existence is a fundamental function of man and has
more than proved its effectiveness. Such abstracted methods will
remain with us and should remain with us. But only by going
through and beyond the processes of isolation have great scien-
tists actually grasped the concrete and conquered it. Whenever
we focus on a fragmented detail we should be aware of the fields
within which these fragments are placed. This is often overlooked,
even today. I discovered recently in an article by a data-processing
expert that his colleagues should hold the highest positions in
commercial enterprises because all human activity has in common,
after all, that definite units are ordered in certain patterns. The
author could have applied his argument just as well to writing
a poem or composing music or making love: all data-processors
would be bound to be supermen in all, according to his logic.
An existentialist approach will keep perspective to particular
fields and will prevent sweeping statements and claims, to which
all specialists are monistically inclined. Existentialism seeks to place
the problem and the solution, and the way from the one to the
other, in their organic totalities. Existentialism seeks to bring back
the whole man within the specialist. It seeks to bring back the
whole around the part in the object. It seeks to place man and
his surroundings into proper context.
The language which existentialism speaks lends itself not only
to religion or philosophy or literature, but also to theories of
knowledge and values. This language is not understood by all in
the same way. To some ears it may evoke the echo of a long gone
past. But others hear in it the joyous songs of the future.
128
Chapter X
THEORIES OF VALUE
OuR METHODS of knowledge are beginning to force us to pay
attention to so-called values. Promising as the study of values may
be, there is still much work to be done; we are in a state, accord-
ing to experts, that the science of physics was in around the year
1650.1
A. The Problem
All scientists aim at a particular accounting for some object or
event. Whenever this object or event is unlively, science has done
wonders in our age. But when an investigation is directed at
something that is alive and conscious, the classical systems become
embarrassed. This situation prevails in biology where physico-
chemical aspects are used and life itself escapes consideration.
It prevails foremost in all so-called moral or cultural sciences
which center on human habits, opinions and actions.
We can assume good reasons for this evasiveness toward cul-
tural objects. Men have the free choice of making decisions with-
in certain conditions-whether determinists like this or not. This
freedom within limitations makes predictions elusive. In the cul-
tural realm, complexes cannot be broken down so neatly into
components-or, if they are, there will be neglected important
residues. Last, but not least, cultural components cannot be meas-
129
ured under mathematical magnitudes with the precision of inert
particles, and are usually not measured at all.
This leads to the question of whether cultural fields lend them-
selves better to different scientific methods, or whether it would
at least be better to use specific variations of classical abstracted
science.
It is in such a context that we turn our attention to values.
When we investigate man's activities and attitudes we observe
what he wants; it becomes obvious that man, our object, is a
creature with preferences and dislikes which we choose to call
values.
In such an investigation, values become data which we study;
they are not the end of our labor. While we study such values
as given facts, we must refrain from valuing them. We have to
study values in a value-less way, or at least in a way that enables
us to avoid the pre-suppositions of the investigator.
If values are preferences or dislikes which we attach to events,
they belong to the realm of judgements or irrational emotions.
This would, of course, localize values as objects only in their
purest form. We have seen before that irrational judgements per-
meate knowledge on every step and in all interrelations. We will
have to keep this in mind when we examine values, but we will
still have to consider values, in themselves, as strictly irrational.
We have to distinguish between valuing and value, between the
human activity and the resulting entity, between the knowing
and the known. Robert Hartman, who has done lucid work in this
field, makes this point with the remark that to be an expert on
mysticism is very different from being a mystic.2
B. Localization of Values in Concepts
The basic question as to which methods and on which level we
should investigate values has been answered very differently. Some
of the answers may throw us easily into confusion.
That values as such are emotional judgements and are there-
fore irrational does not determine that the method of their investi-
130
gation should be on the same level. Just as any other emotional
event-be it love or hate or prejudice-we can investigate an
emotional phenomenon in a non-emotional way. Thought-images
and conceptual manipulations can be formed from any aspect of
an object, be it sensual or emotional or conceptual, or a mixture
of the three.
We have to try to be as precise as possible. Values-meaning
value-judgements and value-propositions-shall now be our facts.
They are capable of scientific investigation and control-just as
any other facts or events.
The easiest approach will be to first use classical abstract
methods in our approach to values and see how far these will
carry us. The essence of abstracted methods is, as we have de-
scribed earlier, to observe events and to form thought-images of
selected portions of them-the so-called concepts by intuition.
We form, then, tentative theories with thoughts that cannot be
sensed but that can be imaged, or at least grasped intellectually-
the so-called concepts by postulation. We move by reasoning
down to conceptual conclusions and correlate these conclusions
with intuitive thought-images of factual existence-again the in-
tuitional concepts-and we test, finally, the correlating percep-
tions by experiments or observations.
In this fashion, the question of values, what is good or bad, will
be placed under accepted, integrated, intellectual methods, even
if the values themselves belong to irrational emotions.
In our method, which is the conservative procedure of abstract
science, we start with perceptions and end with perceptions, and
we deal with irrational judgements. Sandwiched into this are
wide realms of concepts, and of logical theories. For the sake of
precision and clarity, it seems worthwhile now to isolate this con-
ceptual portion of our investigations.
Robert Hartman has done just this in quite a number of pub-
lications.3 His presentation is clear, in a rather vague field, and
provides a good approach.
According to Hartman, "good" does not necessarily mean an
ethical reference. I call a physician good, or a burglar good, and
131
may only intend to point to his professional efficiency. I may not
intend to say that his occupation appears useful; nor may I intend
to say that he is ethical in his work or that he is a kind human
being. Good means, therefore, according to Hartman, merely
the statement that X is a member of a class C and that he has all
attributes of that classification. A good doctor is a man who has
passed proper examinations and knows medicine. According to
this, good appears as the predicate of a subject, which fulfills a
definition. Therefore, values are posited logically as concepts.
They are, as such, neither ethical nor emotional statements, but
are merely logical terms, even if the content may be emotional.
Such logical values will be objective, although all applications
are made by humans and are necessarily used under individual
variations. This will, after all, be the case in all actions of reason-
able recognition.
To elaborate the thesis a bit: X is a good C, if he is first a
member of the classification C. This class will have a number
of defining predicates, such as a, b, c, d and so on to n. Our par-
ticular X will be a good C if he fulfills all these universal require-
ments, and he will be a better C than another member Y, if he
fulfills more of the predicates and our other member fulfills only
some. In other words, a value measures the conceptual fulfillment
of elements of a wider concept. On every such attribute, Hart-
man uses a full yes or a full no or a neutral in the middle between
the two extremes. He works with one, or with minus one, or with
zero.
Hartman distinguishes certain dimensions of relations of
values. They may be analytic, synthetic or singular. His analytic
relation covers classifications of extension. His synthetic level is
systematic and his singular is intrinsic. If I say that the man X is
a good lawyer, I judge him under an extensive classification. When
I state that the same man is a fine scientist, I apply a systematic
reference. If I say that he is a good and kind man, I refer to his
total particular intrinsic position.
Following the fashion of symbolic logic, Hartman proposes
calculations of values with symbols, always prefaced either by
132
one, or minus one, or zero. Under such computations, we can
compare individuals with values and figure out that X 1 is a better
C than X 2 if he ranks higher on a total of attributes or predicates
under a proper conceptual definition.
Hartman points out that natural sciences have been made
precise and predictable by measurements of components and by
mathematics manipulating such measurements. His proposed sys-
tem of the logical constructions of values-the science of axiology
-intends to provide a similar set of tools to master and order all
branches of cultural sciences. Under axiology, a value is not a
property of an object and it is not an emotional preference of a
subject; rather, it is considered a logical concept within other
logical concepts.
Remaining within this frame, we may ask why only three posi-
tions-all, or minus all, or nothing-should be considered on
every conceptual attribute of definitions. Since we are dealing here
with logic, the answer will most likely be found in an adherence
to Aristotle who, in all his logical propositions and combinations,
actually used the same rigid distinctions. Korzybski made a vio-
lent attack against such a limitation, as we saw in Chapter Eight.
Korzybski pointed to the factual need for finer differences. Judge-
ment not only means to accept or to reject or to refrain; it also
means to accept partly.
In this respect, J. 0. Unson4 goes much further than Hartman,
suggesting a fine grading scale for every reference to which the
observed object is broken down. According to Unson, somebody
should make such a scale for every element by setting the figure
100 on the positive extreme and 100 on the negative pole and
setting between the extremes all intermediate points which appear
to be needed. This scaling has to be done by the investigator, ac-
cording to particular needs, and will, necessarily, be arbitrary.
However, so is every mathematical scale, whether we measure in
grams, ounces, yards or meters and whether we work with toler-
ances of an inch or a thousandth of an inch.
How far we go in our intermediate points on the scale of ele-
ments will depend on the problem with which we deal, on the
133
object which confronts us, and the methods which we select.
Hartman's threefold grades of yes, no or neutral will, in all
probability, be insufficient in most cultural investigations. Unson's
detailed scales sound just like a transfer from natural science and
will in most cases of cultural events be neither possible nor
necessary.
It seems advisable to interrupt here further speculation and to
turn to an investigation of facts. Let us look at large fields in
which, at present, valuing is actually done on a large scale and
over a long time in the cultural area. This will give us an oppor-
tunity to verify and to establish how the observable facts of life
correlate with our theories. By this inductive approach we may
:find factual assurance which will lead to correction of theories.
A suitable area for factual investigation can be found in the
realm of colleges and schools. Teachers face the necessity of grad-
ing and graduating students. In every such evaluation they first
establish criteria. Let us take a French class, for instance: there
will be a certain set of goals for every class and each set
will be broken down by elements-for instance, grammar,
vocabulary and comprehension. In this process, usually five grad-
ing brackets are used, from the highest, A, to B, to the average
C, to the barely sufficient D, and to the failing F. If necessary,
intermediate brackets may be assigned: the A Minus, or the C
Plus. In certain situations-for instance, on written tests with
true-false questions-precise percentages of correct work are as-
signed to the brackets, and machines may even be used to grade
the papers, to figure the percentages, and to express the brackets.
What is done in schools repeats itself in adult life on a much
larger scale in the annual evaluations of employees, which are
customary in government agencies and in many industrial enter-
prises. Here we usually find a so-called rating-sheet on which
criteria are broken down-from "getting along with people" and
"neatness" to theoretical knowledge and practical speed. On these
rating sheets, we encounter, again, brackets for every attribute,
also usually about five, from "outstanding" through "very good"
and "good" to "satisfactory" and "unsatisfactory".
134
In schools as well as in employment situations, we also use a
compound valuation on top of the grading of elements. What is
the overall rank of a boy in a graduating class if he has an average
of C in French, A in mathematics, and D in Social Studies? Will
he rank, in total, so that he can graduate? Where does he stand
within the group?
This compound position can be stated by weighing the attri-
butes and establishing the total, almost mathematically. Or it can
be done, as it is mostly done in government valuations, by letting
the individual ratings stand as they are and leaving it to the
evaluator to state his total judgement, which may not be precise
but is to some extent supported by the grades of the criteria. All
such procedures fall somewhere in the middle between the exact
measurements of natural scientists and vague opinions.
This leads to the important question of the verification of
values.5 Students, as well as employees, would be outraged if
grades or ratings could not objectively be proved or disproved, at
least within reasonable boundaries. To become used to bracketed
concepts of values and to become used to verifying them, or at
least making efforts at verification, will be an important step to-
ward getting cultural sciences out of their ruts of speculation.
C. Values Localized Everywhere
All events or objects can be approached through all the levels
of our mental faculties and we can select a corresponding portion
of the objective particulars. When I speak of my daughters, I
switch on the perception that there they are. Or I use concepts
by intuition: they are such pretty girls. I could also apply postu-
lates: they are two. It may happen that I become aware of my
emotional attachment: I love them. I could also experience them
in an interrelation of all aspects: I love those two pretty girls who
stand there. Or I will turn to the field-approach: look at their
command of French within their general education and poise.
Every one of these levels of recognition can now be brought
under finer distinctions of values, with brackets of magnitudes of
135
intensity. I see the girls around the house, but not very often-
GradeD; they are pretty, but not too-Grade C; I love them with
all my heart-strictly Grade A.
What I can do with my two girls, we can do just as well with
all other events or objects which surround us, and we are doing
this constantly. In science and in our everyday life we are con-.
stantly valuing all levels of faculties. This means we are aware
of distinctions of intensities; we may act in compounds and ele-
ments and we may be more or less conscious of our grading.
When I speak of Mr. X, I may say, or just think, that he is a
grade A attorney, that his looks are C, and that he has, unfor-
tunately, only D manners, and F interest in music, and seems to
be a C husband, all anchored in a B socio-economic status. What
my compound value of Mr. X will be depends on my references
and relations to him: whether I need an attorney, or want to
approach him for a contribution to a symphony orchestra, or in-
tend to invite him as a casual guest to my house.
When I hire a stenographer, I will question her technical ability
and judge it by a grade; I will try to find out how well balanced
she is, and how she ranks on education, job experience and back-
ground--every aspect more or less consciously under brackets A,
B, C, D or F-and I end with a compound grade; how much I
want to have her in the office. I compare her with the other appli-
cants and I then come to a decision to employ the one who ranked
highest.
Wherever and whenever I experience recognition I also expe-
rience gradations-measurable intensities on all levels and in all
interactions. Facts and values move into each other.
D. Sets of Interrelated Values: The Ideologies
We have seen that we mean by values the measurable grada-
tions of intensity that are inherent in all external objects and in
all elements of knowledge-the subjective faculties of perception,
of concepts, and of judgements-and also in the interrelations be-
tween objects and subjects.
136
If we turn to an existential view or to a field-principle of
methodical knowledge we would have to rephrase this statement.
We would then say that we are surrounded by particular entities
and are ourselves such an entity within totality. In methods of
knowledge we select some distinctions within the totalities and
with a regard for the totality. These aspects will be variables and
will be graded in the cultural field in brackets of values.
We found that we must recognize values-the measured grada-
tions-whenever we recognize something in the cultural field. This
may actually be anything-it may be objective or subjective; it
may be element or sub-whole or field.
It should, therefore, be obvious that we will also have to be
aware of values-of the measured grades of intensity-when we
turn now to integrated packages of particular opinions which
dominate the total life of a group of humans and which distin-
guish one group from another.
Nations and groups are divided by specific sets of norms on all
levels. These can be called ideologies. Ralph Borsodi6 has enumer-
ated five subdivisions of such ideologies. There are, first, epistemic
values which deal with a gradation of truth or error of convictions
and recognition; second, telic or teleological values, which deal with
graded ends and graded means to realize the ends; the third level
is ethical-the good and the bad; fourth, aesthetic values, which
effect the problems of beauty and ugliness; the fifth and last level
consists of economic values, which are concerned with the pro-
duction and distribution of material goods.
Borsodi does not elaborate, but it seems that he wants every
cultural event determined, simultaneously, by every one of these
categories, and he seems to say that different ideologies consist of
different grades or values in every single element and in the com-
pound.
It may help to turn to a simple example. A County wants to build
a bridge over a river, and asks for a design and for estimates of
cost. Several bids are submitted and are compared. The commis-
sioners check every category: Under the epistemic value they ask
how reliable the data are which are submitted, and whether the
bridge will carry enough traffic. Under the other four categories, the
question will be whether the business principles of the contractor
and his relations to employees are ethically acceptable, whether the
bridge will be pretty or ugly, and what the economic implications
of price in ratio to product will be. Under every view, a grade will
be assigned, a value will be applied, consciously or subconsciously,
and the total bid will come under a compound value.
Historically, we find in every society a dominant package of
interrelated grades attached to every element of Borsodi's five
categories. A social class in a given nation maintains traditional
grades throughout the specific ideology. The ruling group will
oppress other sets of ideologies that are embraced by a minority.
Usually the opposition moves and stirs, and will move, in due time
and under favorable conditions, victoriously into dominant posi-
tion. This is so-called progress, an ever-flowing process bringing
with it replacements of interrelated sets of value norms-the ide-
ologies. Every element that goes into the ideology is graded; the
different grades make the different totality of the image of reality
to which a human group adheres under a particular ideology.
BorsodF has tried to present classifications of all existing ide-
ologies in groups, according to metaphysical, epistemological and
cognitive categories. He has drawn a chart of all such ideologies
and has designed another chart showing which ideologies provide
solutions to certain basic problems and how they differ in the di-
rections under which solutions are approached.
In these packages of ideologies we find that statements of verifi-
cation may be different. Some people will deny that a certain event
actually carries a certain grade, while others may affirm this, and
certain conclusions may depend on the acceptance of the graded
premise. What I call a first-rate violin player may sound fifth-rate
to somebody else. Sometimes it may be possible to agree on cri-
teria and to resolve the discrepancy by factual investigation. When-
ever such solutions are not possible, we are not worse off than in
any other verification of facts: we have to accept the relativity of
the two oppositions.
138
Chapter XI
METHODS OF CULTURAL SCIENCES
IT SHOULD be obvious that cultural sciences are lagging behind
the sciences of nature. Everybody seems to agree that their status
retards human progress and may even endanger our survival.
Within the framework of our study we must raise the question
of whether scientific methods could be improved in the cultural
field and whether this would result in more precision, better pre-
dictions and better controls.
A. Problems and the Reduction to Specific Axioms
For almost thirty years we have been moving from the fruits
of the industrial revolution into the so-called scientific age, which
brings a general application of scientific methods to industry and
to common life. The use that is made of automation, electronics, or
atomic energy is influencing social patterns, political organizations
and economic areas. The natural "forces" which men are unleash-
ing require some social control and some individual reaction. It
will surely be justified to turn to the question of how scientific
methods can be adapted to better recognition and better manipu-
lation of human actions.
It is the faith of all scientists that nature, as well as man's be-
havior is orderly, as least to a great extent, and that we should be
able to discover patterns and to influence them. Such a belief
in order extends obviously to all external events and also to all
139
- - - - - - - ---~--~------
internal experiences. According to the characteristics of objects on
which scientific inquiries are turned, we distinguish between two
large groups-natural sciences and cultural sciences. In such a
division our natural branches seem to be concerned with the be-
havior of nature, while the cultural branches deal with the behavior
of men.1
Whenever we look at a human being we may use either view-
point. Albert Schweitzer can be considered as a human body.
But it was surely not the circulation of his blood or the condition
of his thyroid glands which caused his estimable moral and
social qualities. The cultural branches are merely concerned with
certain functions of conscious human agents, with the conduct of
men.
Under the term "cultural sciences" we intend to cover all that
is left in philosophy, mainly ethics, aesthetics, logic, and our
theories of knowledge and philosophy itself. We add to this certain
divisions which have moved out of philosophy. Among them are
history, geography, sociology, linguistics, law and political science.2
All cultural branches form two distinct groups: the social
sciences and the humanities. The social portion studies men as
members of human groups, while the humanities look at humans
as individuals with a highly personal inner life. Under this view, the
social portion would mainly consist of geography, history, soci-
ology, economics, anthropology and law.
The humanities, the sciences of the individual, cover principally
all of philosophy-including logic and our theories of knowledge
and value--all verbal skills-literature and linguistics-all theories
of visual arts-architecture, painting, sculpture--and the theories
of temporal arts-music and dance.
Depending on aspects or attitudes, we may sometimes be in
doubt as to whether a certain branch is natural or cultural. Psy-
chology, for instance, was considered by Freud as completely cul-
tural and non-medical, while the American Medical Association
seems to place it, at least its therapeutical features, under its
wings.
Our scientific methods have grown mainly in the natural field
140
and are obviously well adapted to such phenomena. The same
methods, more or less, have so far been used in the cultural areas.
This leads to the question of whether mechanical fragmenting pro-
cedures are proper and promising when we approach living ob-
jects whose behavior of yesterday may not repeat itself tomorrow
under apparently similar circumstances.
Different areas with differently acting facts may require differ-
ent methods. Other contents may respond in another form. Hein-
rich Rickert, who was one of the first to point to such views and
who coined the term "cultural", has suggested the solution in
directing cultural sciences to mere phenomenological descrip-
tions of particular individuals or particular groups.3
We admit that every science, be it natural or cultural, will
start on the lowest approach with a description and identification
of certain selected and combined universal abstracts which are
ordered systematically, all in intuitional concepts. We must also
admit that certain sciences did not get any further. Linnaeus'
botanical system would be a prime example, in its recognition of
orders of plants by numbers of stamens or pistils of flowers and
by the patterns in which plants are joined together.
In natural sciences, however, such descriptive research has
moved to postulated theories and explanations. Scientific agri-
culture has gone way beyond Linnaeus.
If we were to follow Rickert for cultural science we would pass
a sentence of death on the real accomplishments of science, which
has always worked wonders elsewhere by intellectual superstruc-
tures and by verifications of correlated percepts.4
It cannot be true that cultural sciences deal with the products
of men. They deal actually, as far as the product is concerned,
with human relations and with intangible human involvements.
Cultural are the economic conditions and the social impacts of that
product. The field of cultural sciences, then, is not limited to an
entanglement with tangible products. It deals, simply, with human
motivations and reactions as such, which may involve any events,
whether such events are made by men or born by nature. Such
intangible connections can also be concerned with internal events
on a secondary level.
141
When cultural scientists speak of "values", they refer apparently
to such intelligible correlations. We, however, prefer to use the
term "human interests" so as to better distinguish this from the
mere measurements of intensity which we attach to every element
or sub-whole of a cultural event; only this measuring, in brackets,
should be covered by the narrower term "values". In our termi-
nology, then, cultural sciences are occupied with sets of valued
human interests; these interests represent human needs and human
relations to a world which is outside of us or in us. Such valued
human interests are formal terms which have variable contents.
The valued interests will be represented in intellectual concepts
whenever we move within our theories of knowledge. Science-
and the theory of knowledge is scientific-can only talk in con-
cepts, taking observations or emotions or other concepts as a
content of investigations.
Outside of science, we will find valued human interests-the cul-
tural object-in everyday life-in percepts and judgements and
emotions. Whether I act as a father to my children, or as a hus-
band to my wife, or as an employee to my boss, or as a visitor in
an art-gallery, I always live in an experience of valued interests.
Since we live by selection my interests will also be selected, out
of different references and areas. While I approach the same set
of particular factual entities, I may bring my set of valued interests
only to one narrow aspect, which may fall under a special con-
ceptual scientific branch. If I look at children playing in the back
yard of a house in the slums, I may be concerned only about the
social relevance, or about the photogenic impact, or about the
psychological implications.
Man's selection of valued interests-the cultural event-is also
greatly influenced by the compounded cultural pattern which he
has accepted. The package of various sets of interests, formed
into ideologies, will not be the same for all people of our time or for
a whole nation. But the set will not be entirely individual for every
human being. We experience in our space-time particular cultural
identifications of groups of species of men. Such functional packages
are functionally integrated, covering many categories of cultural
142
valued selections, with different criteria and different values of
intensity. Borsodi has given comparative tabulations of different
ideologies.5
It will be necessary to consider such contexts whenever we look
at a special aspect of culture, be it law, or economics, or political
science, or even ethics. It would be foolish to investigate Nazi
atrocities without proper attention to the total Nazi conception
of ecology, of political patterns and of moral levels. This applies
to almost every cultural fact, and to every special branch of
cultural science.
The great difference to natural science is not only that we deal
in culture with intangible human interests within total packages
of interests, it is also that our object is fluid and evasive.
When Galileo made his observations, he could be sure that
bodies would fall under his laws of gravity all over the earth
and through all times. They would not fall faster in Europe and
slower in Asia, or faster in his time and slower three hundred
years later, although it was later discovered that there are very
small deviations due to latitude and altitude of locations. Such
differences, however, can be calculated and considered in pre-
cise predictions.
In culture we deal with human wants which are highly variable
and do not follow exact patterns. If I look at a woman's garment
and say it is black, I can be sure that it will stay black as long as
it exists-or that I can account for a change when it is dyed. But
when I state that women's fashions accept principally black dresses,
I must first specify of what year and what place and what income
class I am speaking of. And when I have all this specified, the same
ladies may tum around next year and wear only grey.
The fickleness of cultural events is bound to the freedom of
men, which evolutionists and rationalists like to overlook. The facts
are, and the evolutionists may please forgive me for saying so,
that men have a free will if they are not under duress, if they are
mentally sane, and if they encounter conditions under which
alternatives are possible. It is admitted that conditions are there
and that men are free in their will only within certain borders.
143
We live not under complete determination and not under com-
plete freedom, but in an interacting balance of order and liberty.6
Max Planck tried to reconcile determinism, free will and scienti-
fic natural principles. All observation requires, to him, a time-lag,
a possibility of seeing before and after. In human motivations, we
cannot experience any such intervals. This built-in uncertainty
prevents us from knowing motives in the cultural field. Planck
uses in another form, actually, the famous Heisenberg principle
of instrumental uncertainty for his reconciliation.
Whatever our explanations may be, we must realize that the
cultural order is not reducible to the natural order and that man's
freedom of decision, within given conditions, presents a set of inter-
relating facts which enter into all cultural intangibles. To some
extent, the alternative decisions in the cultural realm are imbedded
in total ideologies, and this may give us a basis to investigate a cer-
tain detail down to the basic total context.
It is the task of the cultural scientist to present useful alternative
solutions to alternative experiences. He is a consultant, he is not a
field marshal who orders armies into battles in which thousands
may lose their lives. The natural sciences have to go down to cer-
tain unknowns and to certain unknowable axioms which are not
explained any further and are not explainable. In cultural science
we have to do, in our methods, something similar, only the axioms
are of slightly different character. They are not any more forces of
substances or properties in themselves; they are now the total
ideologies, the intangible packages.
It will not be possible to prove or disprove in economics or in
political science that capitalism is right or that communism is the
one and only correct approach. But we can investigate the instru-
mentations of one or the other and follow through on their details.
We have, so far, tried to show the problems of cultural science
and to offer a few directions which may lead to some solutions.
All this is tentative and much work will still have to be done.
B. A New Method Based on German Legal Science
In our research for new methods we now turn to a specific
144
branch of the cultural sciences to see whether we can find in
actual use any methods that have proved their worth and may
be used in other branches, through "by-sociation." With this in
mind we look at the legal field. It recommends itself strongly be-
cause it has reliability and precision and firmness. It has not the
vagueness of past and present economics, political science or
sociology, where whatever you read may or may not be so.
In law, we have a precise conceptual body of legal provisions
issued and published with the authority of enforcement in syste-
matic order. Here we find a cautious collection of facts and a
careful system of verification under rigid rules of evidence; we find
a constant interplay from thoughts to facts and back to thoughts
and back again to facts.
In the legal field we have a situation in which we can narrow
diJ!agreements to bases of assumptions or concepts which can often
be clarified easily and are often solved, under duress of a legal
procedure, through factual evidence. Humans will always dis-
agree, and it is in the legal field that we find unique resolutions of
disagreements.
There is simply not any cultural science which can compare with
the law in concepts as well as in facts. If any science has stood
the test of time and space, it is the law. So, it seems only natural
that we look first and foremost here for methods which may give
us some help in all branches of culture.
Many philosophers have, somehow, felt some attraction to
legal precedence and have been fond of quoting the law to prove
philosophical theories. The only trouble with this is that often
our philosophers did not know enough about law and did not
bother to ask somebody who knew. Among philosophers we find,
therefore, mostly speculations-what they thought the law might
be. I think here, for instan~ne example of many--of the amaz-
ing thesis by Hilliard7 that the law exists for the maintenance of
individual happiness.
What law really exists for is the synthesis between the thesis
and antithesis of opposed valued interests. Smith claims payment
of money from ·Miller and Miller claims he does not owe it. The
145
State decides the issue from the viewpoint of what the surpassing
general social interest requires-namely, that Miller pays if evi-
dence shows that he had promised the amount for a certain service
and that he received this service; or else the State decides that
Miller does not have to pay if that service was criminal or immoral.
Law is the order of human behavior through which the common
will of a national society is forcibly realized.8 In modern legal
systems of the political subordination of citizens, the State de-
termines the collective content. Individual freedom in human re-
lations exists only so far as the State, in the legal system, leaves
self-determination to the subject.
We have said before, and repeat here, that all cultural life con-
sists of valued human interests. More than forty years ago a
courageous school of legal philosophers in Germany brought this
into the open, limiting it to the legal field, in the "Jurisprudence of
Interests". We have an American publication of their thoughts9
which conveys their aims and methods. Behind this modest pres-
entation stands the original German literature. Their axiom is
that every law or legal problem regulates a conflict of valued
interests of men or groups of men. We find, historically, legal
regulations for the same behavior but with radically different con-
tents. Laws have upheld dictatorships, monarchies and democra-
cies alike. Laws have upheld capitalism and fascism and commun-
ism. Laws have sanctified slavery and have put a heavy penal
sentence on it. Laws have in places protected the accumulations of
private property and in other places placed it under the death sen-
tence. Legal systems have enforced polygamy here, monogamy
there; they have forbidden divorces or have made them possible.
The law has recognized nobility and has abolished it; it has for-
bidden censorship and has organized it.
The reason behind all this vacillation seems to be that legal
viewpoints do not determine the content of a law, just as the
technique of printing does not decide what is printed in a book.
All law is only form; its content is not law. Whether a law is
good or bad, and whether it deserves the grade value "A" for
excellent or "F" for flunking, depends only on the question of
146
how well it carries through the assumed content-how good it
is as an enforcer of whatever its master has told it to enforce.
Laws are merely the instrumental means of a culture. They
see to it that the people do what the lawgiver wants to accomplish
as a cultural end, which will be an end that is not legal. The
goal of all laws is, and has always been, to force on people the
will of society, which is concerned with many, many issues. The
monopolizing state, as the giver, sets the content of law. This
content consists of valued social interests which the society
under the affected state has accepted and approved and has placed
under legal protection.
These valued interests, which are imbedded in legal forms,
may be economic, religious, domestic, political, sexual, or edu-
cational, or whatever the society, represented by its authorities,
wants to regulate. Whoever wants to understand the legal norm
has to be aware of this ordered content-the material of law-
besides knowing the formal realm of mere legacity.
Orthodox German legal opinions considered every contract
complete covering all actual relations of the parties. Empty spots
-the "gaps"--existed only subjectively for the persons who had
to interpret the agreement. The lawyers and the judge now had to
discover the hidden arrangements which had to be deducted out ot
the silent document, and had to find solutions by so-called inter-
pretations or by fictitious factual considerations (what the parties
would have agreed upon, at the time of the execution of the agree-
ment, if they had foreseen the unforeseeable.)
The orthodox legal methods turned here to the arsenal of logical
deductions-they had nothing else to turn to. Conclusions were
here, always, possible in all directions and were leading to entirely
opposite results. One argument could be from part to total-since
Party A was granted a portion, he should get always all, or the
answer would be restrictive, that this party should get only what
he had explicitly coming and nothing more. Analogies or syllogisms
would also fly in easy flow to a yes or to a no. The decision would
then usually come from a hidden emotional, irrational judgement
which preferred the one logical conclusion to the other-although
147
both had logically exactly the same value or lack of value. At least,
this was the charge which the new school leveled, adding that the
orthodox would hotly deny that the final decisions all rested on the
emotional, irrational selection of a logical stratagem. The same
lawyers and judges would pride themselves, in less guarded
moments, on their so-called common sense and human under-
standing which were guiding them in this jungle of conceptual
growth.
The new school of "Jurisprudence of Interests" turned to a
radically different conceptual theory. In a phenomenal view, it
limited the actual contract to its actual coverage and considered the
uncovered as genuinely not regulated, as a genuine "gap"-"die
Luecke". These not-covered factual occurrences had to be brought
under new conceptual postulated solutions. The gap had to be
filled and this could oilly be done by an investigation of the under-
lying non-legal content, out of the valued interest of the parties.
The School gave itself the name of the "Free Legal Movement"
(Die Freirechtslehre), "free" referring here to the fetters of con-
ceptual logic. In every problematic case the valued interests of each
party had to be established and the distribution between opposing
interests as it was generally agreed in the contract, had to be un-
earthed. The overriding social interest had then to provide for
the solution.
What such an approach required-and the originators were
usually not clear enough on this one aspect-was that the over-
riding interest could not be what lawyers or the judge (the kingly
Judge, as they liked to call him) considered decisive. Since all
law is under monopoly of the State, the overriding interest had to
be the valued interest which the lawgiver had sanctioned as a
general principle. This general law-given principle had also to be
unearthed and postulated and had to be taken into consideration.
Almost every scientific statement must be expressed in one-
sidedness at first-our verbal expressions force us to do this-
but even this requires a qualification under an added total view.
Although the legal realm as such is oilly a form of a-legal contents,
it can nevertheless become a valued interest itself. There can be
148
fonnal principles, for instance, strict rules of evidence or provisions
for procedures which must override everything else, under certain
circumstances, and which will determine the decision in specific
cases~
But the additions and qualifications still leave intact the tre-
mendous impact of a radically new theory which goes down to
the real issues-to the non-legal level of valued interests. Instead
of vague intuition which decides between opposing logical con-
clusions, we move on another level, in bi-sociation, down to the
interests, into the realm of a total living particularity. We still
leave room for intuition, on all levels, but within a well organized
body of perceptions and concepts.
While the new theory was developed by Gennans for German
practice of law, it should reach beyond national borders, although
the freer German rules of evidence are specially favorable to the
theory since non-written evidence is permissible there under a
dispute over a written contract.
The Gennan school did not apply the theory just to contracts;
it extended it, coherently, to all problems which occurred under
"uncovered" provisions, or better, under legal rules which did
not cover certain facts. This meant also codifications of civil
law or tax law. Whenever our American system has codified areas,
for instance in tax laws, or whenever common law rules and a
specific decision could not be located, we encountered the same type
of problems and we could also use the same methods of solutions
as under the "Jurisprudence of Interests" theory.
It must truthfully be admitted that the new German theory was
never really victorious in Germany, although quite a number of
young attorneys who worked over there some thirty to forty years
ago displayed the revolutionary methods openly in briefs and
hearings. Whoever was exposed to the new dimensions could
hardly forget or forego their attractions.
Here in the United States, "Jurisprudence of Interests" was
propounded only in a few books and in a few secluded discussions.
It seems important to resurrect the theory and hope that it may
finally find general acceptance after years of obscurity, just as it
149
happened once to the theories of George Boole in mathematics and
Kierkegaard in existentialism.
There are some good conclusions to be drawn from our theory,
first in the legal field itself. It is not enough for a lawyer or a judge
to know the law. It is necessary to go down to the valued a-legal
interests in order to understand the contents with which the legal
forms are dealing. It is necessary for a specialist to recognize the
formal legal aspects and the a-legal aspects of interests which, al-
together, appear in a specific particular sub-whole.
Actually, all good legal practitioners have always worked that
way; only theoretical researchers may have to clarify their aware-
ness. The patent lawyer has always had to be enough of an en-
gineer or chemist to apply his special laws properly. A lawyer in
a tax department of a department store will find himself forced
to pick up quite a lot of knowledge of the factual side of his busi-
ness, including finances and accounting, if he wants to handle the
tax problems of the enterprise.
Let us now move a step further. What we just learned inductive-
ly from the legal field and from the German school of "Jurispru-
dence of Interests" represents a general principle which reaches
way beyond the profession of law. It represents a principle which
extends into all cultural sciences.
I recently met a member of a firm of actuarial consultants who
wanted to install a computer in his office. He found that other
similar enterprises had tried this with disastrous failures. He
found that the main reason for the troubles was that the specialists
of data-processing did not know enough about the requirements of
actuarial work and that actuaries did not know enough about the
technical features of the computer to arrive at solutions which
the one could use and the other could perform. Our actuary de-
cided to take six months off from his job and to learn data process-
ing so that he could see his problems in the light of the computer
and could then get together with these other specialists for a joint
effort. He felt proud that his six months were well spent. He
ended with a proper installation which worked smoothly and cost
a fraction of the original estimates.
150
I just read that the American Airlines did something similar
when they placed all their reservations on computers.10
C. Down to the Facts: Values, Verifications and Probabilities
From the interrelation of the form and content of valued human
interests, each viewed in a different scientific branch and both
considered together in interaction, we return now to the general
methods that every cultural branch could use in its own area.
Classical abstractions and classifications prevail in all sciences,
natural as well as cultural. Let us summarize again those meth-
ods which we presented fully in previous chapters.
Investigations are usually prompted by a problem11 and
start with a description of the factual situation, according to iden-
tifications and abstraction of universal elements. This means trans-
formations from perception into concepts by intuition (thought-
images of elements of observation). We turn, then, to a tentative
theory, to concepts by postulates which are expressed in thoughts
of images or of symbols. From here, we deduce down to concepts
of intuition and correlate these concepts to actual perceptual veri-
fication.12
We accept, wholeheartedly, the classical abstract methods in
cultural sciences. However, they have to be adjusted to the fluidity
of the cultural content-the flexible valued interests. For such an
adaptation, we have recommended mainly two approaches, both of
which are based on a recognition of the existential particularity of
culture.
Natural science prides itself on its measurements and on its
mathematical involvements. We stated in Chapter X that cultural
sciences deal with values13 and these are also measurements. They
are less precise, since they have to be usually in a few brackets.
But our cultural facts do not permit of more precision. On the
other hand, such limited precision, and its tools, have so far
hardly been used, at least not in theoretical work. We are, here,
just at the beginning of a new area.
In all cultural sciences, a better recognition of values will permit
151
considerable progress. To work with values requires first that
every problem be broken down carefully into components, that
every solution be separated into criteria, and that the relations
between both be treated also in this fashion. The breakdown has
to be done "scientifically", which means that disagreeable elements
have to be faced and dealt with. It has to cease that any systems
push contradictory fragments under the carpets. Unfortunately,
such monistic tailoring of facts is very easy to do in the field of
cultural intangibles, much easier than in natural sciences, which
deal with tangible objects.
Working with values means that we state measurements in
graded brackets on every relevant element and on the compound.
We have discussed this in detail in the previous chapter and come
now to the use to which our previous findings are to be assigned
in cultural sciences.
In valuing, there are differences between the methods of cul-
tural science and the methods of natural science, which measures
with finer distinctions. But the differences are only gradual.
Natural science has grown to precision and success by measure-
ments and mathematics, which is the conceptual tool of mag-
nitudes and logic.
Values could accomplish a parallel growth in cultural sciences.
Needless to say, measurements alone could not have produced
today's splendor of natural science and mathematics could hardly
substitute for good theories or gifted hunches. But measurements
and mathematics were indispensable. The same will apply to cul-
tural sciences as well as to our theories of knowledge.
D. Predictions and Manipulations in Sciences of Culture
It is the goal of all natural sciences to start with descriptions, to
gain understanding, and to arrive at predictions and modifications
of the appearing reality. Natural science has developed from
contemplations and proceeds from concepts and postulates to
manipulations. In natural science, the scientific methods aim at
power over environment. Natural science is concerned with power-
thoughts and with actions.
152
Natural scientists like to deny that cultural disciplin~s can
produce predictions of events or manipulations of facts. They like
to conclude, under this argument, that the cultural branches should
not even be honored by the name of science. Their attack implies
that the failure in predictions or controls is not due to faulty
methods or to the poor status of the cultural crafts but is inherent
in the cultural object, in the fickleness of human interests which
may shift under man's will within a few years or from one group
to another.
However, natural science has gained the ability to predict and
to control only lately and only gradually. It seems fair to grant
the cultural disciplines a similar patience of development. Pre-
dictions and manipulations are, even in the field of natural science,
the result of long scientific work and are not a pre-supposition or
condition of scientific methods.
Even if the results should often not yet be good enough in pre-
dictions or manipulations, the cultural disciplines are, in their
work, dedicated to scientific methods on every element and in
every step of perception, concepts, judgements, and hierarchies,
and on the interacting combinations of all these levels.
In our present situation, predictions and controls are rather dif-
ferently precise in our different disciplines of cultural sciences. In
some branches, we do rather well and are completely equal to the
naturalists. In law, we are doing fine. Here we have exact concep-
tual systems-they are even enforced by State monopoly. And
here we find strict rules about factual evidence which are con-
trolled by officers of the courts.
"History" seems to be at the other pole. From a careful recog-
nition of the past or present, it appears almost impossible to
arrive at predictions or manipulations of the future. However, the
standards and designs of historic investigations aim merely at a
proper recognition and conceptual ordering of events which have
occurred, comparable to Linnaeus' botanical system. To conclude
trends for the future would belong to political science, economy,
sociology, or other branches which will have some standards of
prediction. In its proper limits, history will be sufficiently assured
153
to take on the role of prediction.
In every discipline of cultural science, the specialists may feel
that much has been accomplished, at least during the last decades,
and that the time-honored methods, as they are used more or less
consciously, were not so bad. To some extent, this will surely
be true.
Outsiders, including natural scientists, will often say that much
has still to be done and that much could be improved. If cultural
scientists search their souls, they will in all probability very often
admit this. Cultural improvements will require better methods,
and our suggestions try to contribute a few possibilities in these
directions.
Here, in our theories of knowledge and values and in the field
of scientific methods-especially in cultural disciplines-we must
know the past, exist in the present and do our best to point to a
future.
154
NOTES
NOTES TO CHAPTER I
1. For instance: Morris R. Cohen and Ernest Nagel, An Introduction to
Logic and Scientific Method, New York, 1934; F.S.C. Northrop, The
Logic of the Sciences and the Humanities, New York, 1948; Morris R.
Cohen, Reason and Nature, An Essay on the Meaning of Scientific
Method, The Free Press of Glencoe, Paperback Edition, 1964.
2. Alfred Korzybski, Science and Sanity, New York, 1933, p. 748.
3. Compare with part A of Chapter IV.
4. Max Planck, Philosophy of Physics, Translated by W.J. Johnson,
New York 1936, p. 45.
5. John Dewey, Essays in Experimental Logic, New York, 1916. p. 23;
also Charles S. Peirce, Essays in the Philosophy of Science, New York
1957, pp. 36 ff.
6. Jacques Barzun and Henry F. Graff, The Modern Researcher, New
York, 1957, p. 163.
7. Bertrand Russell, Human Knowledge, its Scope and Limits, New York,
1948, pp. 98 and 507.
NOTES TO CHAPTER II
1. Ralph Harper, Existentialism, Cambridge, Mass., 1958, p. 146.
2. William Wallace, ''The Logic of Hegel", in The Encyclopedia of the
Political Sciences, Oxford, Second edition, 1892, p. 159.
3. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, London, 1922;
repeated in Sixth Impr., 1955, pp. x and 12-23.
4. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations, New York, 1953.
pp. x and 12.
S. Alfred Julius Ayer, Language, Truth and Logic, New York, 1952,
pp. 5 ff.
6. C. G. Jung, Psychologische Typen, Fischer Verlag, Zurich and Leipzig,
1937.
155
7. Alexander Hamilton, James Madison and John Jay, The Federalist
Papers, New York, 1961.
8. Ibid., p. 84.
NOTES TO CHAPTER III
1. Bertrand Russell, Scientific Outlook, New York, 1931, p. 13.
2. Henri Bergson, The Creative Mind, New York, 1946, p. 2.
3. Bertrand Russell, Op. cit., p. 69.
4. Ibid., p. 57.
5. Wiliam G. Cohn, Sampling Techniques, New York, 1953, p. 1.
6. Ibid.
7. Warren Weaver, Lady Luck: The Theory of Probability, New York,
1963, p. 307.
8. Hans Reichenbach, Experience and Predictions, Chicago, 1938, p. 278.
NOTES TO CHAPTER IV
1. Edmund Husser!, Ideas: General Introduction to Pure Phenomenology,
London and New York, 2nd imprint, 1952, especially pp. 255 ff.
2. Rene Descartes, A Discourse on Method, translated by John Veitch,
New York and London, 1954, p. 168.
3. David Hume, An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, LaSalle,
Illinois, 1907, p. 29.
4. Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, translated by J.M.D. Meikle-
john, #909 of Everyman's Library, New York, 1950, pp. fvi and 54 ff.
5. L. S. Vygotsky, Thought and Language, Cambridge, Mass., 1962, p. 56,
footnote.
6. S. Howard Bartley, Principles of Perception, New York, 1958.
7. Henri Bergson, Matter and Memory, translated by Nancy Margaret
Paul and ·W. Scott Palmer, London, 1962, pp. 43, 37, 60 and 239.
8. S. Howard Bartley, Op. cit., p. 171.
9. D. W. Hamlyn, The PSYchology of Perception, London, 1957, p. 39.
10. Ibid., p. 42.
11. Ibid., p. 94.
12. F.C.S. Northrop, Logic of Sciences and Humanities, New York, 1947.
13. L. S. Vygotsky, Op. cit., pp. 4, 64, 92, and 108 ff.
14. David Hume, Op. cit., p. 47.
15. Hans Reichenbach, Experiences and Predictions, Chicago, 1938, p, 263.
16. Immanuel Kant, Op. cit., pp. 11, 87 and 129.
156
17. George Boas, The Limits of Reason, New York, 1961, p. 40.
18. Immanuel Kant, Op. cit.
19. George Boas, Op. cit., p. 152.
20. Immanuel Kant, Op. cit., p. 79.
21. Friedrich von Schiller, Letters upon the Aesthetic Education of Man,
1879, pp. 25 ff.
22. Bertrand Russell, Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limits, New
York, 1948, p. 212.
23. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations, New York, 1953,
p. 157.
24. Henri Bergson, Op. cit.
25. Ibid., p. 316.
26. Ibid., p. 97.
27. Jean Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, translated with an introduc-
tion by Hazel E. Barnes, New York, 1956, p. 208.
28. Henri Bergson, Op. cit., p. 97.
NOTES TO CHAPTER V
1. Morris R. Cohen and Ernest Nagel, An Introduction to Logic and
Scientific Methods, New York, 1934, p. 207.
2. Rudolf Steiner, The Philosophy of Spiritual Activity, Translated by
Prof. and Mrs. Alfred Mende, 3rd Edition, London and New York,
1942, pp. 35 and 36.
3. L. S. Stebbing, A Modern Introduction to Logic, London, 1961, p. 260.
4. See Chapter IV of this book for details.
5. Max Planck, Philosophy of Physics, Translated by W.H. Johnston,
New York, 1938, p. 47.
6. Max Planck, Origin and Development of Quantum Theory, Nobel
Prize Address, Oxford, 1922.
7. Bertrand Russell, Human Knowledge, its Scope and Limits, New
York, 1948, p. 23.
8. G. Boole, Investigations of the Laws of Thought on which are
Founded the Mathematical Theories of Logic and Probability, London
and Chicago, 1854, p. 243.
9. Bertrand Russell, Op. cit., p. 340; also Richard von Mieses, Probability,
Statistics and Truth, New York, 1939.
10. Hans Reichenbach, Experiences and Predictions, Chicago, 1938, p. 234.
11. S. Stebbing, An Introduction to Logic, London, 1961. p. 235.
12. Ibid., p. 309.
13. Hans Vaihinger, The Philosophy of "As If", Translated by K. Ogden,
London, 1945, especially p. 266.
157
14. Ibid., p. 269.
15. Ibid., pp. 108, 110, 158, 168, 174, 185, 208, 213, 215 and 345.
16. Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Hegel, ''The Logic," from Encyclopedia of
the Philosophical Sciences, Translated by William Wallace, Second
Edition, Oxford, 1892.
17. Benedetto Croce, What is Living and What is Dead in the Philosophy
of Hegel, London, 1915, pp. 100 ff.
18. Ibid., pp. 136 and 181.
19. Friedrich Nietzsche, Human, All Too Human, A Book for Free Spirits,
Translated by Paul V. Cohn, Edinburgh and London, 1911, p. 43.
20. Georg Friedrich Wilhelm von Hegel, Philosophy of History, Trans-
lated by J. Sibree, New York, 1905.
21. Ibid., p. 135.
22. Ibid., p. 249.
23. Ibid., p. 414.
24. Benedetto Croce, op. cit., p. 33.
25. Ibid., p. 53.
26. S.S. Vygotsky, Thoughts and Language, edited and translated by Eu-
genia Hanfmann and Gertrude Vakar, Cambridge, Mass., 1962, pp. 3 ff.
27. K. Koffka, Principles of Gestalt Psychology, New York, 1933, especial-
ly p. 105.
28. M. Beatts, ''The Thought Process", in Datamation, Dec., 1961, p. 47.
29. Henri Bergson, Matter and Memory, Translation by Nancy Margaret
Paul and W. Scott Palmer, London, Sixth Imprint, 1950, p. 110.
30. Ibid., p. 92.
NOTES TO CHAPTER VI
1. Compare especially:
a) George Boole, Investigations of the Laws of Thought on
which are founded the Mathematical Theories of Logic and
Probability, London and Chicago, 1854.
b) Morris R. Cohen and Ernest Nagel, An Introduction to Logic
and Scientific Method, New York, 1934.
c) John C. Cooley, A Primer of Formal Logic, New York,
1942.
2. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, London, 1955,
No. 3, 143-2.
3. L. S. Stebbing, Modern Introduction to Logic, London, 1961, page 33.
4. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Selections, ed. Philipp Wieser, New York,
1951, pp. 17 ff.
S. George Doole, Op. cit.
158
6. Ibid., pp. 47 ff.
7. Ibid., pp. 84 and 165.
8. A. Wolf, Textbook of Lagic, London, 1930, p. 223.
9. John C. Cooley, Op. cit., p. 329.
10. Representatives of Modem Logic:
a) Alfred Tarski, Introduction to Logic and the Methodology
of Deductive Sciences, translated by Olaf Helmer, Oxford,
1963.
b) Rudolf Camap, The Logical Syntax of Language, London,
1937.
c) Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead, Principia
Mathematica, Cambridge, 1925 and 1927.
11. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Op cit.
12. George Boole, Op. cit., p. 60.
13. L. S. Stebbing, Op. cit., p. 64.
14. Ibid., page 86.
15. Rene Descartes, A Discourse on Methods, translated by John Vertch,
New York and London, 1954, p. 11.
16. Edith Watson Schipper and Edward Schenk, A First Course in Modern
Logic, New York, 1959, p. 372.
17. Morris R. Cohen and Ernest Nagel, Op cit., pp. 308 ff.
18. Charles S. Peirce, Essays in Philosophy of Science, New York, 1957,
p. 256.
19. Ibid., 267.
NOTES TO CHAPTER VII
1. Edmund W. Sinnott, The Biology of the Spirit, New York 1955, p. 7.
2. Max Planck, Philosophy of Physics, Translated by W. H. Johnston,
New York, 1936.
3. John Dewey, How We Think, New York, 1910, p. 216.
4. According to Paul Hindemith in his A Composer's World, New York,
1961, p. 4.
5. Alfred North Whitehead, Modes of Thought, New York, 1938, p. 109.
6. Elliot Dale Hutchinson, How to Think Creatively, New York, 1949.
7. Ibid., p. 110.
8. Ibid., p. 119.
9. Roy Lepley, Verifiability of Values, New York, 1944, p. 163.
10. Arthur Koestler, The Act of Creation, New York, 1964.
11. Ibid., p. 659.
12. Ibid., p. 472
13. Ibid., p. 212.
14. Edmund W. Sinnott, Op. cit., p. 112.
159
- - - - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
15. Paul Amer, "Attitudes Towards Intelligent Machines", in Datamation,
March, 1963, p. 38.
16. Mortimer Tauber, Computers and Common Sense, New York and Lon-
don, 1961. p. 93.
17. St. Augustine, Confessions, translated by F. J. Steed, New York, 1943,
pp. 218 ff.
18. Ibid., p. 219.
19. Ibid., Part IX.
20. Ibid., p. 223.
21. Ibid., p. 224.
22. Ibid., p. 225.
23. Ibid., p. 228.
24. David Hume, An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, LaSalle,
Illinois, 1907, p. 231.
25. Ibid., p. 375.
26. Ibid., p. 474.
27. Edmund W. Sinnott, Op. cit., p. 94.
28. Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, Chicago, Book ill, No. 16, p. 17.
29. Although there were a few predecessors to Freud's attitudes: See Ar-
thur Koestler, Op. cit., 77. 147 ff.
30. David Hume, A Treatise on Human Nature, New York, p. 8.
31. Ibid., pp. 88 ff.
32. Arthur Koestler, Op. cit., p. 17.
NOTES TO CHAPTER VIII
1. Compare: Jacques Barzun and Henry Graff, The Modern Researcher,
New York, 1957, pp. 229 ff.
2. Compare: Bertrand Russell, Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limita-
tions, New York, 1948, pp. 57 to 158.
3. Compare: Irwin K. Gordon, The Romance of Writing, New York,
1936; and Caroll Gard, Writing, Past and Present, New York, 1937.
4. Bertrand Russell, An Enquiry into Meaning and Truth, New York,
1962, p. 133.
5. Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, Laokoon, London, 1930, p. 55.
6. C. P. Snow, Two Cultures and a Second Look, London, 1964.
7. F. S. C. ,Northrop, The Logic of Sciences and Humanities, New York,
1948, p. 79.
8. Alfred Korzybski, Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristote-
lian Systems and General Semantics, New York, 1933.
9. Bertrand Russell, Op. cit. in footnote 4, p. 133.
10. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, London, Sixth
160
Impression, 1955.
11. Ibid., under 6.44.
12. Eric Stenius, Wittgenstein's Tractatus, Ithaca, New York, 1960, p._ 218.
13. Ibid., p. 219. . . .. .
14. A. J. Ayer, Language, Truth and Logic, New York, 1964, p. 9.
15. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Op. cit. in footnote 15, p. 133.
16. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Op. cit. in footnote 12, under 2.06.
17. A. J. Ayer, Problems of Knowledge, London and New York, 1956;
Language, Truth and Logic, New York, 1946; Rudolf Camap, Mean-
ing and Necessity, Chicago, 1941; The Logical System of Language,
London, 1937; Gilbert Ryle, "The Theory of Meaning", in Philosophy
and Ordinary Language, Edited by Charles E. Caton, Urbana, Illinois,
1963, pp. 125 ff.
18. Leo Semovich Vygotsky, Thought and Language, Cambridge, Mass.,
1962.
19. Ibid., p. 56, footnote.
NOTES TO CHAPTER IX
1. Henri Bergson, The Creative Mind, New York, 1946, p. 189.
2. Ibid., pp. 42 and 112.
3. Hella Krause, "From Pelops to Orest", in Das Goetheaneum, Zeitschrift
Fuer Anthroposophy, Domach, Switzerland, Oct., 1964, pp. 226 ff.
4. Martin Heidegger, Existence and Being, 2nd Edition, London, 1956.
5. Edmund Husser!, Ideas: Introduction to Pure Phenomenology, London
and New York, 2nd imprint, 1962.
6. Ibid., p. 225.
7. Ibid., p. 150.
8. Henri Bergson, Op. cit., p. 189.
9. Ibid., p. 152.
10. Jean Wahl, A Short History of Existentialism, New York, 1949, p. 10.
11. Karl Jaspers, Reason and Existence, New York, 1957; The Perennial
Scope of Philosophy, New York, 1949; Way to Wisdom, New Haven,
1957.
12. Martin Heidegger, Op. cit.
13. Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, New York 1954, especial-
ly pp. 951 ff.
14. Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, New York, 1956; New York,
1947, especially p. 25.
15. Jean-Paul Sartre, Search for a Method, New York, 1963.
16. Jean-Paul Sartre, No Exit and Three Other Plays, New York.
17. Paul Tillich, The Courage To Be, New Haven, 2nd Printing, 1955.
18. Martin Buber, I and Thou, New York, 1955.
161
NOTES TO cHAPTER X
1. Robert S. Hartman, "Value Analysis of Legal Decisions", in Ohio
State Law Journal, 1951, p. 23.
2. Robert S. Hartman, "Value, Fact and Science", in Philosophy of
Science, 1958, Vol. 25, No. 2, p. 100.
3. Robert S. Hartman:
''The Science of Value", in New Knowledge in Human Values,
Edited by Abraham H. Moslow, New York, 1959; and others.
4. J. 0. Unson, "On Grading", in Mind, 1950, Vol. 59, pp. 145 ff.
5. Roy Lepley, Verifiability of Values, New York, 1944.
6. Ralph Borsodi, "Eight Propositions about Value", in The Humanist,
Yellow Springs, Ohio, 1964, pp. 151 ff.
7. Ralph Borsodi, The Education of the Whole Man, Published in India,
1963, pp. 60 ff.
NOTES TO CHAPTER XI
1. Heinrich Rickert, Kulturwissenschaft und Naturwissenschaft, 6th and
7th editions, Tuebingen, 1926; Florian Zanecki, Cultural Sciences,
Their Origins and Developments, Urbana, Illinois.
2. Ralph Borsodi, The Education of the Whole Man, Published in India,
1963.
3. Heinrich Rickert, Op. cit., p. 54.
4. Compare especially, in this book, Part C of Chapter III and Part B of
Chapter IV.
5. Ralph Barsodi, Op. cit., pp. 277 ff.
6. Rudolf Steiner, Philosophy of Spiritual Activity, London and New
York, 3rd Edition, 1932.
7. A. L. Hilliard, The Forms of Value, New York, 1960, pp. 264 ff.
8. August Messer, Deutsche Wertphilosophie der Gegenwart, Leipzig,
1926, 136.
9. The Jurisprudence of Interests, edited by Magdalena Schock, Cam-
bridge, Mass., 1948.
10. "The Sabre System," Datamation, Sept., 1965, pp. 49 ff.
11. Heinrich Rickert, Op. cit., p. 79.
12. S. C. Northrop and Henry Morgenthau, The Nature of Concepts, Their
Interrelation and Role in Social Structure, Norman, Oklahoma, 1950.
13. Robert S. Hartman, "Value of Legal Decisions", in Ohio State Law
Journal, 1951, Dec. 23, 1925, p. 7.
162
INDEX
Abstractions, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34,
35, 38
Aristotle, 86, 87, 113
Atomic Facts, 37
Aurelius, 105
Axiology, 5
Axioms, 37
Ayer, A. J., 16
Balance, 21, 22, 25
Bergson, 48, 60, 61, 78, 121, 126
Boote, 82
Borsodi, 137
Business Administration, 20
Classifications, 34
Combination of Abstractions, 35
Combination of Percepts and
Concepts, 23
Concepts, 38, 54, 55, 56
Concrete Objects, 32
Creative Efforts, 96 to 102
Croce, Benedetto, 73
Cultural Events, 143, 145, 146,
151, 152
Cultural Sciences, 130, 140, 141,
142, 143
Definitions, 84, 85
Descartes, 43
Determinism, 129, 144
Dewey, John, 10
Dialectics, 71, 74
Epistemology, 4
Euler Diagrams, 82
Existentialism, 121, 125
Fallacies, 23
Federalist Papers, 20
Fictions, 68, 69
Field Concepts, 127
Freud, Sigmund, 105, 106
Galileo, 143
General Semantics, 112
Gestalt Psychology, 49, 76
Groups, 18
Hamilton, Alexander, 20
Hartman, Robert, 130, 131
Hegel, 15, 16, 69, 73, 121
Heidegger, 123
Hilliard, 145
Hume, David, 43, 55, 104
Humour, 98
Husser!, 42, 121
Hutchinson, Dale, 94
Hypothesis, 66, 70
Ideologies, 22, 136, 137
Illata, 65
Instantaneous Recognition, 78
Irrationality, 93 to 107
Jaspers, 123
Jurisprudence of Interests, 146
Kant, Immanuel, 43, 51, 58
Kierkegaard, Soren, 25, 121, 122
Knowledge, 40, 72, 92, 132, 162
Koestler, Arthur, 97
Korzybski, Alfred, 112, 113
Language, 17, 108, 109, 116, 117
Leibniz, 82
Lepley, 97
Lessing, 109
Logic, 3, 81 to 90
Marx, Karl, 24
Mathematics, 91, 92
Meaning, 108
Memory, 59
Methodology, 4
Methods of Knowledge-
see Theory of Knowledge
Mieses, 65
Monism, 18, 104
Moral Sciences, 4
Neurath and Hempel, 114
Neurotic Elements of
Creative Efforts, 95
Nietzsche, 124
163
Noemes and Noeses, 42
Northrop, 127
Pascal, 64 ·
Peak Experiences, 122
Perception, 24, 48, 50, 52, 53
Phenomenology, 121
Philosophy, 4, 142
Planck, Max, 64, 144
Plurality, 16, 18, 25, 91
Probability, .64,··65
Psychology, 140
Reichenbach, 65:'
Rickert, Heinrich, 141
Russell, Bertrand, 95, 114
Sampling, 39
Sartre, 124, 125
Schiller, Friedrich, 58
Schopenhauer, 25
Selections, 28, 35
Sensations-see Perceptions
Science, Limitations, 43
164
St. Augustine, 93, 94, 102
Syllogism, 88, 89
Synthesis, 69
Tantalus, 121
Technical Language, 112
Theory of Knowledge, 3 to 6,
44 to 47
Topical Order, 63
Triad, 70
Truth, 123
Universals, 30
Unson, 133
Vaihinger, Hans, 68
Values, 5, 129 to 138
Venn, 82
Verifications, 39, 40, 47
Vygotsky, L. S., 55; 76, 116
Whitehead; 94
Wholes and Parts, 101
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 16, 114,
115
