{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1966__dawn___the_search_for_happiness.pdf","mytitle":"The Search For Happiness","mylang":"de"}
Happiness is neither within us nor without us;
it is the union of ourselves with God.
- Pascal
Copyright 1966 by The Mayan Order.
All rights in this book are reserved. No
part of this book may be reproduced in
any form whatsoever without written per-
mission of the publisher.
Printed in the United States of America.
PROLOGUE 7
SELF-KNOWLEDGE - Genesis 1:26 11
SPIRITUAL HUNGER - Matthew 5:6 19
GOD'S WAY - Psalms 37:34 27
FAITH - M atthew 6:26 35
PERCEPTION - I fohn 3:16 43
HUMILITY - Psalms 121:2 51
INTERLUDE 59
LOVE - I fohn 3:24 61
JOY - Psalms 40:3 69
PEACE - Romans 10:15 77
HEALTH - Psalms 42:11 85
PROSPERITY - Psalms 1:3 93
POWER OF FAITH - I Corinthians 2:5 101
ABUNDANT LIFE - fohn 10:10 109
EPILOGUE 117
To Fellow Travellers
on The Path that leads
to Perfect Happiness.
~INCE primitive man first gazed with wonderment
C) into the flames of fire and contemplated its bene-
fits in his life, the desire for happiness has dominated the
lives of all races in all ages. For most people, even today,
happiness is far away, seemingly unattainable, because of
a limited conception of Life and Truth.
To many, it is a will-o'-the-wisp that leads them ever
onward in a blind and futile search for a nonexistent state
of being. They search in one place and then another with-
out knowing for what they search. They are ever drawn
to a mirage as a famished wanderer in a desert, their hopes
bound to something that appears to be instead of some-
thing that is - TRUTH.
Others seek happiness by amassing great wealth. But
wealth is not an essence of happiness - it obstructs hap-
piness unless it is used for the betterment of mankind.
Others seek happiness through power and position, but
power and position are not essences of happiness. Power
is the embryo of despotism and corruption, position is the
seed from which grow selfishness, greed and hatred -
unless power and position go hand in hand with love and
have as a part of their being the desire for helpfulness.
Happiness is not to be found in faraway places. It is
not something that flows from the outside into our being.
It is not something that others can give us, nor can we
attain it in a single pursuit of life.
Happiness is a condition of life that we create our-
selves. It is health that radiates vivacity, joy that makes
the heart sing, love that overcomes fear and hatred, pros-
perity that gives us a full life, and faith in the ever-present
power of God.
7
THE SEARCH FOR HAPPINESS
8
God is love and we are created in His love. He gave
us the intelligence and power to enjoy the fullness of His
gifts but to each of us He has left the choice of using that
power according to our individual wills. Thus, the degree
to which we enjoy God's blessings is NOT a limitation God
imposes upon us, but one that WE impose upon ourselves.
If you experience a lack in your life, you may be
sure it is because you are not making full use or proper
use of your inner power. The forces that obstruct hap-
piness come from within. They are the doubts and fears
that creep into the mind, and remain to grow to such pro-
portion that error instead of Truth controls the process
of thought.
Mind is of Universal Mind and by Divine Wisdom it
is the guardian of soul, heart and body. No surrender to
spiritual compromise can be made without surrender
having been made first in the mind. Hatred, jealousy, or
ill will cannot injure or bring unhappiness to another un-
less the mind allows the thought to linger and take root in
the heart. Illness of the body becomes an illness only after
it gains recognition in the mind. Thus, every evil impulse
must first find acceptance in the mind before it can make
an impression on the physical or spiritual being.
It is in the mind that every good in life has its be-
ginning - and its growth and power to continue - for in
mind are registered the impulses that lead to God's full-
ness, a life so complete that any addition would overflow
the measure. Mind has the power to CREATE desire,
without which happiness is impossible. It is the Temple of
Faith, and in faith it can bring every worthy desire into
reality.
It was by the wisdom of God that mind cannot be
PROLOGUE
divided in thought. We cannot think thoughts of truth
and error at the same time; we cannot believe in poverty
when our thoughts are on prosperity; we cannot think of
our bodies as imperfect when we think of them as God's
temples; we cannot hate when our thoughts are on love;
we cannot be disturbed when our thoughts are on Christ's
teachings of peace; we cannot fear when our thoughts are
on the love of God and His power to protect us from all
evil.
Jesus brought to the world the message of Truth.
Through His teachings, He sought - above all else - to
lead the people to salvation through LOVE for and FAITH
in God. But He also sought to show them that the same
love and faith would fill their hearts with happiness while
on earth.
To teach the Truth without demonstrating the power
of Truth was not enough to erase the doubts and fears of
a people whose minds had become poisoned with thoughts
of false limitations. Thus, the New Testament records
many demonstrations of miraculous healings - spiritual
and physical. Many look on these as miracles wrought by
the supernatural power of Christ. It is true they were
demonstrations of Christ's power, but in EVERY case of
healing recorded in the Bible, the faith of him who was
healed opened the way for the healing power of God to
flow into his being.
When Jesus restored sight to the blind man of Jericho,
He said to him, "Receive thy sight; thy faith has saved
thee." When He restored health to the unknown woman as
recorded by Matthew, He said to her, "Daughter, be of
good comfort, thy faith has made thee whole." Thus, in
two words - THY FAITH - is the power that can bring
9
THE SEARCH FOR HAPPINESS
10
the fullness of God into our lives. It makes us at one with
an ever-present power that can overcome illness and
poverty, fear and hatred - yes, it can even overcome
death. THY FAITH!
Thus, Faith is the power by which all good comes into
our lives; doubt opens the way for every evil to enter.
It is by belief in Christ's teachings that we can enjoy God's
fullness; by lack of faith or failure to demonstrate it we,
and we alone, close the door on God's abundance.
God's abundance is your heritage. His fullness is yours
to enrich and glorify your life according to your under-
standing and belief in His promises. To help you claim
that heritage is the purpose of these meditations.
As you begin, it is important that you firmly establish
one thought in your mind - that the meditations are
YOUR meditations. The scripture passages are God's per-
sonal message to YOU. Read them not just with your lips,
but with your heart. Let them become indelibly impressed
on your soul. Thus will you create an awareness of God's
love, and in your love for Him will emerge the faith that
will open the way for His bounteous gifts to flow into your
life.
Rose Dawn
August 3, 1966
And God said, Let us make man in our image.
~ Genesis 1:26
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
12
I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.
Psalms 17:15
/\ I 0 ONE CAN progress toward the light when dis-
0 V satisfied with his affairs. This dissatisfaction, if
allowed to continue, soon becomes a habit so that we can-
not give our best. We must learn to make peace with
our affairs before we can hope to outgrow limited condi-
tions and unwanted conditions. Our best service comes only
when clear thinking and harmony predominate. When we
understand that even in present undesirable conditions we
may look forward mentally to the desired conditions, we
realize there is no need to be dissatisfied, for our thought
controls how we shall live. When we master that condition
we are ready to leave it.
Implanted within every man is the germ of perfection,
the spark of Divine Being at his very center. We may be
tempted at times to think of our shortcomings and limita-
tions, but the truth remains that in the sight of the Father
we are perfect. Let us cease to think of ourselves as bound
by shortcomings, or imperfect, for only the perfect idea
from God has been made a part of man who is a part of
God. Our limited human self is not our true self, what ap-
pears to be limited is our own false concept of ourselves and
others. The true man is the idea of God implanted within
each one and is the power that inspires us to manifest the
spirit of the Christ. If we would serve God, we will mani-
fest His perfect ideas of health, love and power.
AFFIRMATION: I Am the Master of My Conditions.
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
... but be filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 5:18
(1 /1 /E SOMETIMES wrongly look to external things to
' l/V give us the zeal and enthusiasm for life. Instead,
we should realize that our zeal comes from our own inner-
most springs of life. When we find ourselves lacking in en-
thusiasm and ambition, we have either looked to the exter-
nal and failed to find those qualities, or we have failed to
lay hold of the ambition, zeal and enthusiasm that are at
the very heart of our being. Some people lack enthusiasm
because they are negative to the good in life; they are un-
receptive when good comes to them.
If we are to be happy and successful, we must be en-
thusiastic about ourselves and our affairs in order that we
may actually become a part of all that is happening. But
there is an enthusiasm deeper than that which we may
have now; it is an enthusiasm that comes from knowing
we are one with all life. With this knowledge we are able
to plan and succeed in everything, since we are sustained
by God's wisdom, power and love. Enthusiasm is a quality
no one can have for us or give to us. Enthusiasm exists in u.s
when all other qualities are balanced, provided we know
that all is well with us and the world, and then a satisfying
enthusiasm for living follows. All the other spiritual qual-
ities will take on a more significant meaning and our en-
tire outlook on life will be colored with brightness.
AFFIRMATION: God's Spirit Within Me Is My Source
of Zeal.
13
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
14
... do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Colossians 3:17
\7.'EAR IS a menace to accomplishment. Some people
_/ do things half-heartedly because of a sense of in-
feriority and a fear that they will not accomplish that
which they desire. These people build their own obstacles.
When men go into a work with the consciousness of suc-
cess, they break down the barriers of fear and thus free
the spirit from the bars that bind it. The one who does not
dare to fail acts as if it were impossible to fail. This is the
key to success.
There are never any demands made upon us that we
are unable to meet. The very fact that we have the ca-
pacity to feel a certain need denotes that we have the
ability to meet it. The same capacity involved in the de-
mand is in the fulfillment. When we say, "I can't," we are
not living up to the recognition conferred upon us, nor
are we true to the exhaustless spirit of the Father within.
To acknowledge inability to meet a demand is to depreci-
ate the power of the infinite and to create a consciousness
of limitation and incompleteness. God created all with
knowledge sufficient to meet their needs and to fulfill their
demands. In every demand is the infinite potentialities of
the Father, and through contact with His power we shall
meet the demands of the day fully and completely.
AFFIRMATION: God's Power in Me Meets All Demands.
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
Thy kingdom come. Matthew 6:10
f l HERE ARE THOUSANDS of unhappy people to-
._, day, not because of what they cannot have, but
because they are not well enough acquainted with themJ
selves to know what they need. Our Father knows, so
why is it that we do not know? Why do we have to make
so many mistakes in our wants? Why is it that, when we
have tried so hard to listen to the Inner Voice, disappoint-
ment and suffering come? Jesus answered these questions
when in His darkest hour He said, "Father, if thou be will-
ing, remove this cup from me; nevertheless not my will
but thine be done."
Freedom from all sense of limitation is God's will for
every man. Praying "Thy will be done" opens the con-
sciousness to the inflow of the good that is destined for us
to share. His will is that we have all the things necessary
for a full and happy life and these will manifest when we
let Him manifest His will through us. If it is more health
you desire, let go of your belief in sickness and suffering
and let His life flow freely through your being. If your
need is for greater happiness and security, realize these are
of God and let His limitless good suffuse your conscious-
ness and follow willingly where He leads you. He stands
ready every moment to pour out upon each one all His
good, which we accept.
AFFIRMATION: The Channels of My Being Are Open
to His Good.
15
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
16
Come; for all things are now ready. Luke 14:17
f]N THE STORY of Lot's wife we have a clear lesson
on "crystallization". When she looked back upon the
past she was turned into a pillar of salt. The same crystalli-
zation takes place in the mind of anyone living mentally
in the past. Experiences leave their impression on us
through thoughts and reactions each after its own kind.
When looking back upon an unpleasant experience, we
recall the pain or loss. Again, we all have pleasant memo-
ries that we like to hold close to us; yet, in dwelling too
much upon these, we fail to give the necessary thought to
things of the present. Remember only the wisdom and
faith gained from past experiences so you can be free to
put the best energy and thought upon the present.
Experience is the great teacher of life. In our trial and
error, we discover our outer weakness and our inner
strength, and cultivate true values as we come to know
that the source of all things is limitless and complete. We
may then go into the world of action strengthened with the
wisdom of God as our guide and helper. With this under-
standing, we know that at every step we are ready to prove
our faith and His might. Each day we can meet life with
assurance, knowing that His power is within us, and that
no circumstance can stand in the presence of our faith and
the might of God.
AFFIRMATION: I Am One With God and Claim My
Heritage.
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good.
Proverbs 16:20
<111 /E FIND many lonely and unhappy people. They
' VV are sincere in their desire for love and compan-
ionship; but, because they feel alone and unloved, they
shut out the very thing they desire most. We must learn
to meet life with faith and expectation. In every heart
there is that which is capable of giving out love and kind-
ness. The very expression of these qualit~es must bring love
and happiness in return. If we expect to be happy and live
a full and rich life, we must sincerely believe in life and its
nature to fulfill.
Nature always cooperates with us as we understand
and use her. The Universe is never against us unless we,
through lack of understanding, are arrayed agafnst our-
selves. All of our remedies lie within ourselves. It is to find
ourselves that we have definite periods of meditation. Medi-
tation is not a time of passivity. It is one of the most active
periods of the day, for it is an effort to find the within
where lies the healing for every human ill. In meditation,
we turn from all thoughts that would deny the good and
cause us to doubt God. Then we live mentally as far as our
understanding will carry us and in activity through us of
the God-life, Wisdom, Substance and Power. In the silence,
we are filled with power and lifted to greater heights of
illumination.
AFFIRMATION: Inspiration Fills Me With Increased
Power.
17
SELF-KNOWLEDGE
18
For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink.
Romans 14:17
[JN US is a great invisible realm waiting for recog-
nition, a realm full of good things - happiness, joys,
new powers, fresh ideas, wonderful plans. This abundance
awaits in the silence of our unawakened selves. Let us be-
gin today to turn within with the purpose of beholding this
new life and its wonderful potentialities. Our very purpose
to arouse these powers within will awaken them. But all
activity must be with the serene confidence that heaven is
within now, that all good is in Mind and that all unfold-
ment waits for us to turn on the light. Yes, in the Kingdom
of God within, we will find the peace and fulfillment we
desire.
There are many seekers for the treasures of life who
do not know what that treasure is, nor how or where to
find it. Our treasure lies within ourselves, the key to it is
our own thought, and the approach to it is our own willing-
ness to believe. Our treasure is in our own hearts, which
are embraced by the Infinite Heart of God. He is our
Eternal Treasure and awaits our discovery of His presence.
Let us then turn our vision inward. For too long we have
looked at distant horizons for ships with their treasures to
come in. Our treasure will come to us only as we release
the treasure in our own hearts. The indwelling God is our
treasure, flowing through us into full expression as we
acknowledge His presence.
AFFIRMATION: My Greatest Treasure Is the Gift of
God's Love.
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst
after righteousness, for they shall be filled.
~ Matthew 5:6
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
20
Eye hath not seen ... the things which God hath prepared
for them that love him. I Corinthians 2:9
flHESE WORDS have been a source of comfort to
'.-' thousands in need of health, harmony and the good
that seem to have been denied them. But all His promises
are meant for life here today, as well as for the time when
we have passed into another realm. God is a present every-
day Help and the Giver of all good right now and here,
today. The physical and spiritual worlds are each a world
of order. To the extent that we believe in the promises of
God, we must believe in His words as applying to both the
material and the spiritual worlds, for the same force
governs both, and this one force is God.
Superstitious people use lucky charms, which they
think will insure their safety and bring them good luck.
Back of this superstition, of course, is the longing of the
human heart for the assurance of a protecting power. But
far more assuring than any form of charm is the knowledge
that God's presence is beneath, above, within and all
around us. God is present everywhere, all the time.
Wherever we may be, God is with us. Whatever we do,
God is present. With this presence of God about us, we
have all the help we can need. If we need healing, God is
present as All Life. If we need protection, God is our All
Defense. If we are in doubt, God is our Understanding
and Wisdom.
AFFIRMATION: I Rest Upon the Promises of God.
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
Perfect love casteth out fear. I John 4:18
CJ EAR ARISES from a feeling of insecurity and im-
:_:r perfect understanding. But we have the assurance
that whatever our need may be, there will be the supply
to meet it. We should keep our minds free from thoughts
of worry and anxiety, for these are bars to perfect love.
There can be no fear when we know that God is with us in
all that we do. With Him, there can be only perfect love
and protection. Surely we can trust the Power that Cre-
ated the universe about us. So let us turn from false
appearances to truth, from fear to faith.
Regardless of what danger we may meet, we may
enter the refuge of God at any time and claim security.
The Bible is full of promises of this eternal refuge. Though
foes and swords be all about us, we need not fear them
when we can retreat into the quietness of the secret place.
Many are the stories told of soldiers in battle who have
been delivered through prayer, rescued from death be-
cause they found safety through spiritual guidance. Every
experience is an opportunity for us to rely upon the salva-
tion of the Lord. There is no problem too difficult to solve
if we but rely upon God. There are no physical arms that
can protect as the spiritual "arm" of God. We may always
find relief from fear by simply casting our burden upon
Him.
AFFIRMATION: In God I Am Secure From All Evil.
21
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
22
And Him only shalt thou serve. Matthew 4:10
(I ROM OUR OWN experience we know that we can-
~ not serve two masters. Either we are servants of
conditions and experiences that exist in our lives, or we
are faithful to the knowledge of the power that flows
through us from the Creator to change old conditions and
create new ones in our lives. We are always the servant
to that which we obey. Though we may have been bound
by our belief in limitation, we have the power to free our-
selves from those conditions and to choose to serve Him.
When we have reached the place where we have faith in
the promises of God, believing what we cannot prove and
have not seen, blessings untold will come to us. God does
not choose to hold man to Him; we are part of the very
fabric of Life in which we have the freedom of making our
individual lives what we will.
Man has been given power over all of his enemies. This
power comes from God and there is no limit to this power
available to man. But we fail at times to use this power and
when adverse conditions come we may think, "This is too
big for me; I am beaten." It is the one who keeps his
faith in the power that is being manifested on the spiritual
plane who will prove that power on the physical plane.
We can demonstrate over conditions if we keep our faith
in the power and use it for our own victory. Thus, we
press forward to the mark of our high calling.
AFFIRMATION: Through the Christ Power I Can Do All
Things.
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
In him was life .. . John 1:4
(/HERE IS A LIGHT within man that never goes out.
".-I This light is the spirit of the Christ and unites man
with the Father. We can never become lost in the darkness
as long as we keep our eye fixed on the light through our
faith and love. Why should we fear when within is the
light that reveals to us the truth that we are ever in God's
care? With this truth we live courageously and con-
fidently, knowing that the light of the Christ spirit is ever
guiding us. As in Him there was light, so also in man is
there light.
When we have found our true relationship to God, our
consciousness becomes so illumined that this truth makes
our entire life one of glorious realization. Even the one
who has not yet become awakened to Truth must feel in-
stinctively that there is something within him that will
some day become lighted by the spark of spiritual under-
standing. Those who plunge and stumble in the darkness
must feel that within them lie latent possibilities for
greater things. It is this hunger, longing for light, that
causes the light to eventually shine through to them. When
one has awakened spiritually, with faith he is able to go
ahead knowing that his feet are directed into paths that
lead to peace, success and happiness. The darkness will
disappear as the mist before the sun as he comes out upon
the broad heights where only Truth is real.
AFFIRMATION: The Eternal Light of Truth Shines on
My Path.
23
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
24
For we can do nothing against the truth.
II Corinthians 13:8
/7IFE NEED NOT be the struggle that so many believe
..L it. When we use truth and love, we build a life of
joy and happiness and usefulness. When we accept truth,
experiences rich in understanding come into our lives.
Truth proves itself. Truth is unchangeable. It will not be
put down. If we refuse to live Truth in our relationship
with others, we harm only ourselves. When we accept
Truth, our lives become filled with good of every kind.
Jesus was able to perform the miracles He did, for with
His perfect knowledge, He knew that man is limited only
by his own thoughts.
We are told that only through knowledge of Truth can
we free ourselves from limitation and oppression, but we
must make that knowledge a part of our being. Knowing
the Truth that because God is God and His kingdom is
right here on earth, the emotional acceptance of this
knowledge is the Truth that frees. Knowing this Truth,
we need not strive with our environment and with people,
for we are able to retire to that inner place where we are
alone with God and accept our divinity and all that it
means - oneness with the Father. We may indeed be free
in the Truth that God is with us every day, through every
experience, giving to us of His love and His Wisdom. Then
we are able to rise above all limitation and become the man
or woman God envisions.
AFFIRMATION: I Accept the Truth of The Christ.
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
... so panteth my soul after thee, 0 God. Psalms 42:1
fl'HE CLOSEST of human relationships at times fail to
._, bring joy and satisfaction. God is the only Friend
who never fails, who is always ready to meet our every
need. Having once really found God, we can never again
feel alone. And when we know that we have God, we learn
that we have less need of many material things. Each of
us, according to our needs, will eventually find in God that
which we seek, for God is the answer to every desire and
the solution to every problem. In each soul is a vacuum
that nothing but God can fill, a hunger that nothing but
God can satisfy.
God being everywhere, in and through all men, then
all men are in that presence and of that power. Our
material problems may prevent us from fully realizing this
at times, but the one who has glimpsed the truth of God
and of men can find heaven in the midst of every problem
and every situation. All negative thought disappears in the
presence of Truth. As we lift up our eyes unto the Truth,
our minds open to a new consciousness of reality and we
look upon a world that is indeed good. We see God every-
where and only the Christ spirit in our fellowmen. Yes,
this is the heaven of which Jesus so often spoke, the king-
dom where only the good, the true, and the pure are real.
It is the kingdom of heaven, which is within every man.
AFFIRMATION: In God I Find the Friend Who Never
Fails.
25
SPIRITUAL HUNGER
26
... and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.
John 6:37
/1 STUMBLING BLOCK with many is the belief
c:::::7'T that meditation is a form of concentration in-
volving the use of personal will. We often meditate on
things as they appear to us, rather than upon things as
they are. Meditation and treatment provide a way for our
thought to become receptive to a higher inspiration, drop-
ping everything from our thought that would deny the
reality of good. In this silence, we seek to embody the
conviction that God is active in and through us, and the
ever available Source. Thus our meditation should be calm
and not a time wherein we seek to concentrate with our
will upon a certain desire. In the silence, we come to be-
lieve that all is good and we accept it.
When we take time to claim for ourselves the fulfill-
ment of God's promises, we begin the day's work with the
strength and inspiration for achievement. Through medita-
tion, we become conscious of perfect wholeness of body
and no longer think of it in terms of the purely material.
We know the body is the dwelling place of Spirit. Our
minds become established in thoughts of health, because we
know that Spirit is health and that coming from Spirit the
body has the quality of its source, perfection. We thus
allow only the animating Essence of Life to keep us whole.
We understand that the soul and the body are in unison.
AFFIRMATION: In Quietness I Meditate Upon the All
Good.
Wait on the Lord, and keep His rvay,
and He shall exalt thee to inherit the earth.
~Psalms 37:34
GOD'S WAY
28
Blessed are the pure in heart; for they shall see God.
Matthew 5:8
/1T IS DIFFICULT for some to understand the nature
...!_! of God or feel His presence when they cannot see
Him. They look for some sign that God is; they strive for
some glimpse of His presence. Yet, wherever we look we
see Him, for there is nothing that is not an expression of
the Creator. When we look upon beauty in whatever form,
we see Him. In our fellowman, in the birds, in the trees,
in the rocks, in the animals, is God in expression. Whatever
our eye falls upon, we see this truth of His presence, His
love. Everything that is made is made by Him, and His
essence expresses through every form of life from the low-
est to the highest. In every form of creation there is God,
for He is in all and is All.
The forests, mountains, sea, sunrise and sunset all
express His beauty, but many times we fail to see these
glories. If we miss these expressions of Him, it is our fault
because we fail to look for the voice of God in His crea-
tion. We do not hear His voice because of our listening to
the things of the world. In all things, He would speak to
us of the love and the riches He is waiting for us to accept.
Wherever we turn our eyes, we see the beauties and the
richness of Nature so lavishly spread out to us for our
enjoyment and happiness. His lovingkindness reaches out
into every corner of His universe, asking only that we
recognize, accept and be thankful for the gifts.
AFFIRMATION: God's Presence Fills and Surrounds Me.
GOD'S WAY
Ev ery plant which my heav enly Father hath not planted
shall be rooted up. Matthew 15:13
C VIL AND DISEASE do not come from God, so they
C can have no place in our lives. Every belief in
limitation must be cast out, for we know that adversity
has no power to hinder our progress. Through our affirma-
tion of the truth of man's being, we cause that truth about
health and prosperity to manifest in our body and affairs.
As we recognize that only the good and perfect are sent
from the Father, we cause the good fruit and the good
harvest to come forth. Sickness, poverty and inharmony
cannot be ours if we hold steadfastly to the truth that
these are not of the Father. Let us root up evil and sow
the good seed of love, health, abundance and peace.
Only when we think constructive and spiritual
thoughts, are we attuned to Divine Mind. When our minds
are filled with these constructive thoughts, God, Himself,
is operating in our minds and acting in our affairs as spirit-
ual power. We cannot think of Divine Mind as apart from
us, for that would mean many minds of separation of His
children from the Father. To us, God is known only
through the higher realms of mind and spirit. That of
which we speak as carnal or mortal mind is but that ele-
ment in us that prompts mortal thoughts. These thoughts
are in opposition to Divine Mind and do not come from a
spiritual understanding. The God in us is the mind of
Truth, and cannot conceive that unlike Himself.
AFFIRMATION: I Am One With the Mind of My Father.
29
GOD'S WAY
30
There shall no evil befall thee. Psalms 91:10
<111 /!THIN MAN there is a Spirit that is able to pro-
' VV tect him under every condition of inharmony
and fear. In this 91st Psalm, we find the protection in the
secret place under the shadow of the Almighty. There no
evil shall befall us, for we live by Truth. No condition
can arise in which this mantle of protection is not thrown
around us. But we must elect to draw this shield about us
through our faith and love in the Father. Within that pro-
tection, no power of darkness can keep the light from
shining through. In the shadow of His protection, we are
secure from all harm.
To abide under the shadow of the Almighty means that
we are free from apprehension about the future. When
we rest in the Secret Place of the Most High, all our needs
are provided by His love. The Father is rich beyond all
ability to picture, for He is not only the Source, but also
the Supply of all the wealth both visible and invisible.
From this universal storehouse comes the substance that
becomes manifest as money or other material means to
provide for our daily needs. From Him also comes the
wisdom that fills men's minds with the priceless riches of
spirit. We abide with God and are surrounded by the in-
finite riches of His kingdom. As our realization of our one-
ness with the Father becomes stronger, the more abun-
dantly we are prospered.
AFFIRMATION: God's Wisdom Prospers Me in All Ways.
GOD'S WAY
Moreover thou leddest them in the day by a cloudy pillar.
Nehemiah 9:12
(/'HE SPIRIT of the Lord indwelling inspires, guides
._, and directs our every step. When we turn from
darkness, ignorance, and indecision, we recognize that the
light of God is always at hand to illuminate us with Truth.
God is ever in our midst as a pillar of light. At the center
of each of us, God dwells as a flaming light. Our path is
made plain and easy, our way is made clear because we
know just the direction in which we should go. The Spirit
of the Lord attends us and directs us into the paths of
peace, so that the disturbing thoughts of the outside can
find no place in our consciousness, where there is only
the spirit of love.
We do not pray to a far-off God, for we know that
God dwells at the center of our being. When we pray, we
seek to place ourselves in tune with this Presence. Having
given up all false belief, we lay hold of the life and the
health of God and this life radiates to every part of the
body. When we believe we are unified with God, we unite
ourselves with all that God is - all the wisdom, all the
life, and all the strength that is inherent in Him in the
midst of us. We must not, like Esau, turn away from or
refuse to accept our God-given right as sons of the Father.
True prayer is but a realization of our identity with God
and our inseparable union with the Universe.
AFFIRMATION: God Dwells at the Center of My Being.
31
GOD'S WAY
32
I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Hebrews 13:5
/1T IS DURING times of trial that people have always
1.../ turned to God. We may speak of our successes and
our joys to others, but the things that wring our hearts we
can speak of only to Him. What a comforting knowledge
it is for us to know that whatever may be our need, there
is One beside us and around us with His strength and His
love, never failing, never forsaking. It seems strange that
even for a short while, in the times of sunshine and
success, we could forget Him and His love. Let us re-
member and be thankful.
God knows not only the things we have need of, but
also everything about our life. He knows our handicaps
and helps us at the points of our need. He knows our back-
ground and our environment and He holds us responsible
for the light we have or might have had if we had not
refused it. He knows our hurts and would heal them with
His love. He knows our possibilities and would open to us
every door of opportunity. Yes, and He knows our tempta-
tions. When we fall, He knows how we feel about it after-
wards. He knows us, and in spite of our unworthiness at
times, He loves us. He so gives Himself to us as to make
us conscious of the great change that Paul described when
he wrote, "If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature."
The Christ makes new and whole that which was im-
perfect.
AFFIRMATION: God's Love and Protection Enfolds Me.
GOD'S WAY
For the body is not one member, but many.
I Corinthians 12:14
f7-) ECAUSE we have believed that Jesus alone was the
;J.::J son of God, we may have felt ourselves separate
from the Father. But we are called to be sons of God and
joint-heirs with Christ. From the nature of His being we
cannot be deprived of anything that God is. We cannot
get away from God for there is no place where He is not.
In our use of this inheritance, as a part of God, power and
joy and wisdom make up life. We feel separation from
God when we think in terms of appearance and forget who
we are. We cannot wander, for there is no far country.
We are always a part of infinite power.
God being all the life there is, then the nature of God
must also be the nature of man for there can be only one.
There is just the one mind, one law and one life. As we
come to think of ourselves in the true sense as a son of
God, we discover that our mind is God's outlet, that there
is an eternal desire within each one to think truth. Being
of the same life as God, we speak as God would speak and
we think as He would think. The mind we are using this
very moment is God's mind in action. Knowing our son-
ship with the Father, we understand how our thoughts
are creative and we should dedicate our thoughts to those
of right ideas. As we are known by our works, and works
are thoughts in action, then as true sons of God we must
think as God thinks.
AFFIRMATION: Our Inheritance Is Power, Love and
Wisdom.
33
GOD'S WAY
34
And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly ...
I Thessalonians 5:23
iJN THIS PRAYER for wholeness, Paul's faith was
that the Master Weaver can reweave the worn parts
of our bodies into one perfect pattern. The grace of God
refreshes, restores and purifies, it restores our right rela-
tionship, it washes away selfishness and clears the way for
us to love God and our fellowmen with heart, soul and
mind. We are invigorated and challenged to seek Him with
our entire being. We are kept pure within as the inner
room has been made a fit dwelling place for the Divine
Presence. Through daily prayer and meditation, we lift
our spirits to the high plane where this Divine Presence
can enter the secret place of our beings and keep us fit.
Through prayer, we realize our oneness with all that
God has. We realize that all we need or seek is already
ours in Spirit. We know that we do not need to beseech
God for whatever we need, but have only to make our-
selves receptive to His riches in order to receive them.
God answers our prayers by giving to each one all that
makes a happier and fuller life. Through prayer, we turn
to commune with the Christ within and, turning thus to
Christ, we behold in Him the answer to our prayer. When
we ask in prayer, we make ourselves receptive to the
blessings of Christ. In prayer we ask and invite Christ
to come into our soul and our life. In this way, we make
ourselves an open channel for the inflow of His blessings.
AFFIRMATION: The Divine Presence of God Fills Me.
. . your Heavenly Father, feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?
- Matthew 6:26
FAITH
36
For we walk by faith, not by sight. II Corinthians 5:7
1 (1 UR ENTIRE LIVES are lived by faith. So well have
l:....J we been taught to fear that we do not now realize
that the very fear we have is a faith in the fear we voice.
Knowing that we must live by faith, then through educa-
tion and discipline we can learn to have faith in the good,
instead of faith in the evil. Faith is the essential quality in
our progress. We have in ourselves and in our environment
all of the qualities necessary for accomplishing anything;
that is, from God we have the wisdom, the substance and
the power. Yet, unless we have the element of faith within
us that binds these all together we will have no action.
Faith gives a powerful hold upon the good in life.
Through faith we seize hold of that which we desire to
manifest in our lives. By faith we lay hold of the good, and
possess it. Faith is the yesterday, today and tomorrow. The
same strong, active faith in The Father that Jesus ex-
pressed can be ours, for the power of all faith becomes
active in each man's faith. Faith in God links us with His
good. We establish a tangible relation to the good things
we desire when we exercise faith in the All Good. When
we have faith in some person we stand with him, willing
to share all things with him and to lend our aid if it is
needed. In the same way, when we have faith in God, He
stands with us ready to help and strengthen us should we
weaken.
AFFIRMATION: I Have Faith in God and in Mankind.
FAITH
0 woman, great is thy faith. Matthew 15:28
(/RUE FAITH is belief beyond any shadow of doubt.
._, We may have faith in men, faith in laws; but the
supreme faith of man is that which we place in God and
in the universal life. Although some may say that such
faith cannot be proved, we know that the laws of nature,
the law of gravity and the law of conservation of energy
are being constantly proved and are no longer speculation.
The entire life of man proves conclusively that "As a man
thinketh so is he". Our faith in God is not a blind faith
born of our desire, but is based upon the physical evidence
of the universe and our intuitive perception of the soul.
If our knowledge of God's power were complete we
would learn to rely upon it instead of resisting or fearing
what subconsciously we feel to be a power outside of God.
When our thought is fully centered upon God as the one
Reality, it is impossible to believe in some other power than
His, for nothing unlike Good can have any part of God's
power. When we are compelled to prove that God is the
only Power, our resolve to rely upon Spirit is strengthened
and we are able to say triumphantly, "I know in whom I
have believed." We know that everywhere is the Omnipo-
tence and the Omniscience of God, so that we no longer
have any belief in that which is not of God. Knowing and
believing in this power we lose all thought or belief in evil,
and limitation disappears from our minds.
AFFIRMATION: My Faith in God Is Supreme.
37
FAITH
38
Having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit.
Luke 8:15
EVERY DESIRE that comes into our minds brings with
it the power to accomplish that desire. God's gift is
complete when He plants the thought or desire in your
mind, and there only remains the act of receiving for you
to complete the transaction. For, regardless of the nature
or magnitude of your desire, you have the power to work
out the mental picture or thought in visible material
reality. To hear the word is to possess a desire, and the
moment you have the thought you really have the thing
that thought represents, for all that remains is the detail
of receiving the finished product.
Our thought is the weapon that God has given us
to dispel lack of any kind, either for ourselves or for others.
We have the power through thought to change sickness
into health, lack into supply, for these are of God and from
God. We can cultivate faith and trust by daily knowing
and believing that always we have faith in the divine
power that guides us in the right paths. By acknowledging
the presence of health and abundance, our thought will
take hold of the very substance of the universal spirit
within and we recognize only the wholeness and abun-
dance. Whatever problem may arise, we know that the
answer is to be found in our own mind, which is a part of
the Divine Mind and all powerful. Our part in the shaping
of our lives is through the direction of our thought.
AFFIRMATION: Faith Makes My Life Fruitful.
FAITH
Fear thou not. Isaiah 41 :10
ff HE BIBLE is filled with "fear nots" covering every
._, situation and circumstance in human experience.
And yet, despite all of God's promises, fear is the greatest
enemy of mankind today. It is only because we lack the
faith to "step out on God's promises" that we fear, for fear
is nothing but the lack of faith. Fear is faith in evil instead
of faith in good. And faith in evil is the result of old
superstitions and dogmas that have been handed down to
us through the ages; the teaching of man's unlikeness to
God instead of the truth of man's likeness to God as He
so plainly reveals to us.
It is only through a living faith that we can be certain
of the truth of that faith. Many times we desire something
greatly and claim that we believe it will become manifest,
yet we make no preparation for its realization. When the
people came to Jesus for healing, they confidently ex-
pected to be healed, and it was their unwavering faith that
made it possible for Him to heal them. It is only when our
desires are based on an unshakable faith in God that we
may look for the manifestation. Let us learn to "ask in
faith, nothing wavering''. Nor shall we ask for the good and
at the same time suggest just how He shall bring that good
to pass. Paul says, "Prove all things; hold fast to that
which is good." We hold fast by expecting the perfect
manifestation in His perfect way.
AFFIRMATION: I Expect and Receive Only The Good.
39
FAITH
40
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear.
II Timothy 1:7
f/HE BEST ANTIDOTE for fear is courage. We can
'-J learn to neutralize fear thoughts with thoughts of
courage that take away the power of fear. We must re-
member that the Spirit of God in the midst of us fortifies
us with fearlessness. In order to free ourselves from every
trace of fear, we have but to keep in mind the truth that
Spirit is our courage. A great step toward courage is the
realization that persons and outer things have no power
over us. We cannot fear those things when we know that
the Christ within is all powerful, for fear comes only from
believing in something other than Truth, some power other
than God.
True courage is not an assumed quality; it is the desire
and the will to see through an experience until we perceive
that at the heart all is good. A false front of courage is
never effective; for when we are really afraid and insist
that we are not, we are trying to neutralize our fear of
conditions by pretending not to be fearful. True courage
lies in the ability to do the right thing when we have once
realized it. We may always discern the right if we will
silence the objective confusion and become able to reach
the calm center within us and hear the Still, Small Voice as
it whispers, "Have confidence, have the courage to let your
convictions be that in and through you at all times God
moves into action."
AFFIRMATION: I Am Courageous and Steadfast.
FAITH
Behold the Lord God will help me. Isaiah 50:9
<1 t1 /E HAVE experienced times when it seems that
' VV our prayers are of no avail. At such times, let us
watch our thoughts. Perhaps we still believe that God
wants us to suffer and be in want. Of course this is not
true, for He has given man talents to provide fully for
whatever the need. The trouble is that we pray and place
our affairs in His hands, but immediately take them out of
His hands and start worrying all over again. How foolish
it would seem if we gave someone a gift, then immediately
took it back. Yet that is exactly what we do many times
when we pray. Negative thoughts of lack, fear and hatred
act as barriers to our receiving the gifts for which we pray.
In order that our prayers may be answered, it is essen-
tial that we believe that they will be answered. True
prayer is not a supplication to God, uttered in fear that
He will not hear us. True prayer is faith that our word is
being spoken with the authority of His promises and used
carefully in order that our prayer be worthy, not only for
our good but for the good of others. We must sustain our
prayer by the conviction that it is already answered, even
before we have asked. With this understanding, we may
have the faith in our word and trust Him to fulfill our
desires. The good that we desire must be the good for all
men and in this way we know we pray aright. It is this
asking aright that brings the sure answer.
AFFIRMATION: I Learn to Pray Aright at All Times.
41
FAITH
42
... and be not faithless, but believing. John 20:27
("'oMETIMES WE FEEL that our faith is of no avail.
C) Yet we should remember that although we may
have thought we had faith in the good, we had a greater
fear of the possibility of evil, and according to our faith
"it was done unto us". Faith is the only power that brings
to us those things we desire. It does no good to plead or
to try to compel the universe to give us these good things.
This attitude only denotes a lack of faith, a lack of faith
that God is good and that His goodness is available to us at
all times. Faith positively held to, consistently increased, is
the power that causes the universe to pour into our ex-
perience such a blessing that we can scarcely contain it.
We should strive to cultivate a state of mind that ex-
pects to accomplish our ideal and fulfill our highest desire.
There is nothing that can obstruct that successful expres-
sion of our ideal, except our own belief in limitation. When
we allow this belief to clog our minds, we fail to see
opportunities, and lack may follow. On the other hand
the affirmative positive state of mind accepts only the
belief that nothing that belongs to us can be taken away
from us. It is the nature of life to respond eagerly to this
positive idea. The limitless possibilities of God are forever
finding expression in all that we do, if we do not close the
channel for their expression. We may each be filled with
confidence and expect to reach our goal.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Accomplishing My Highest Desire.
Hereby perceive we the love of God ..
~I fohn 3:6
PERCEPTION
44
I have overcome the world. John 16:33
fl /1 JE ARE NOT the victims of chance or change.
' VV The law of freedom is eternally established,
abundance is at hand. It is not enough simply that we
know this. We must unite our spiritual identity with the
one Spirit. As God's children, supply is always where we
are, always manifesting itself for our good. All that with
which we have identified ourselves is now drawn into our
experience. We have the assured conviction that we live
in a world completely penetrated by the living God, and
our life is an expression of that citizenship. As an expres-
sion of God, we have access to the creative order of the
universe and come into possession of our desire. The
substance for which we seek is manifest through the One
Source.
The degree of life that we possess depends upon our
conscious realization of that life. We grow in the realiza-
tion of greater life as we increase our consciousness of it.
If, at times, we seem to lack vitality, we should erase the
thought of life as limited and become receptive to Truth
and to the all-sufficiency of vitality and strength. In
meditating upon life, we also come into the awareness of
life to such extent that we never again doubt its presence
and oneness with God. We realize that God ever expresses,
in and through us, His life, health and joy. With this
realization, we feel at one with the inner life of the Spirit.
AFFIRMATION: Today I Possess My Good.
PERCEPTION
Lean not unto thine own understanding. Proverbs 3:5
n I NDERSTANDING makes for greater richness,
 U while lack of understanding results in experi-
ences of poverty. The understanding that enriches and
enlightens us is an understanding of our true place in the
universe. One who understands electricity will get more
use of it than the one who does not. In the same way, one
who understands the true science of life will get the most
out of life. We must desire to understand how to adapt
ourselves to our true God-self in order that we may ex-
press more of that God-self. We must have an under-
standing of our own divine identity.
The Scriptures tell us that true understanding comes
:from spiritual perception. Knowledge is of the intellect,
but wisdom and understanding are of the heart. With
spiritual understanding, we discover that we are one in
essence with the Spirit. With true understanding, we are
able to penetrate everything that may seem opposed to
good. Back of all appearances we perceive the One Cause,
the One Presence, and the One Purpose. Thus we con-
sciously ally ourselves with this Divine Presence that runs
through everything. We open the gates of our conscious-
ness and, through recognition and acknowledgment, we
permit the Spirit of Oneness to flow through us. We know
in Truth there is one God, one Spiritual Man, and one
Eternal Life.
AFFIRMATION: Through Understanding I Have A Rich,
Full Life.
45
PERCEPTION
46
... and was restored . . . Mark 8:25
[JT IS THROUGH spiritual vision that we rise above
material appearances. We are able to see the Spirit
shining through what had seemed to be a world of limita-
tion. As we grow in strength to see spiritually, we find
our eyes become strengthened. Through faith and disci-
pline we reach the point where we see only the good, the
true, the real, both in ourselves and in others. This treat-
ment for spiritual vision will help to develop clear strong
eyes when we turn our attention to them, and know that
in Spirit they are strong and perfect.
Our physical eyes are but the visible representation
of our spiritual sense of seeing. As our spiritual eyes be-
come opened through the light of Truth, our physical eyes
are made clearer. Clearing the mental vision clears the
physical vision as well. With an understanding of Truth,
we do not have to strain our eyes in order to see, but learn
to look easily at whatever it is we need to see. Spirit
within will see that the difficulty, if any, will be taken care
of. When our spiritual vision is opened, our physical eyes
are relieved of some of the burden we may have placed
upon them. We cease to see things in a limited sense and
evil will disappear from our world as we cease to look
for it. Looking through the eyes of Spirit, we see the
world of good, the world of God's perfection.
AFFIRMATION: I Behold All Things in Spiritual
Perfection.
PERCEPTION
Entreat me not to leave thee ... Ruth 1:16
fl S WE ENLARGE our concept of life and the work
o-f' to be done, our vision reaches upward, never
downward. Through the wisdom of Truth, we identify
ourselves with the thoughts and activities that broaden
our vision and deepen our spiritual understanding of the
real meaning of life. As spirit is limitless, so we live in a
world of ever-greater and never-ending opportunities that
lead upward to the heights of spiritual attainment. Our
daily prayer should be that nothing might cause us to
leave the path of realization of man's purpose in life - the
expression of the Christ.
To use and understand the Truth of our relation to the
Infinite Law and Order of things necessitates something
more than intellectual knowledge. We need not know the
why nor the how of things. The fact that we know these
Truths exist for our use is the great essential. It is not
given to a chosen few to possess the ability to know God
and to express Him; all men have the ability to grasp
Truth and make their lives more fully express the attri-
butes of God. The simplicity of Truth often makes us over-
look it; we seek something complicated, something veiled
in mystery. Instead of mystery, we find that the way to
Heaven is through the here and now; that every thought
is an expression of the Infinite and is carved into our life
pattern.
AFFIRMATION: My Life Is An Expression of the Christ
Within.
47
PERCEPTION
48
Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers.
Romans 13:1
flo GAIN the higher levels of spiritual understanding,
"_/ our consciousness must be filled with the higher
ideas and ideals so that the lower things of the world can-
not dominate the mind. In keeping our eyes on the heights,
we are able to rid ourselves of the confusion, the hatred and
all those things that drag us down. To be dominated by
these higher powers does not impose a hardship, but, like
a bow of promise in the wake of a storm, makes our
horizons bright and radiant and our eventides filled with
the beauty and the glory of accomplishment. Being subject
unto the Higher Power sets our feet firmly on the path to
the heights.
To attain the greatest heights, let us set a high
standard to conform to that standard of perfection in
Christ. No aspiration or gooc:l can be too great and lofty,
yet we should remember to keep our feet planted firmly
on the rock of practical accomplishment. Within us all is a
divinity that works to make those dreams and aspirations a
reality. When we envision those dreams and aspirations,
let us do so with the knowledge that God's will for us
should ever be our prayer; then our human aspirations will
surely become realized. Let us learn to often lift up our
eyes unto those hills of understanding from which will
come strength and wisdom to make our progress to the
heights sure.
AFFIRMATION: I Progress Daily Toward the Heights.
PERCEPTION
Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth.
Ephesians 6:14
ff S WE LEARN more of the truth of God, we give up
O"T preconceived ideas based upon ignorance and
falsehood. Truth is salvation from ignorance, sin, evil and
disease. According to the truth of God, we have dominion
over all external things. As the children of God, we are
masters over our world. This truth puts an end to all
belief that persons, things, or conditions can make us
subservient to them. We are eternally governed, guided
and directed solely by Truth. Nothing but Truth can pass
the portals of our mind, for only Truth influences or per-
suades us to action.
There is no one who does not at times find his spirit
lagging and feel weak and weary. It is then we remind
ourselves that in Reality we are whole and strong. This
consciousness raises us out of the slump of weakness and
lets us stand rested and revived. Sickness or disease is but
a comparison of the imperfect with the perfect, but a lack
in consciousness of wholeness and perfection. You remem-
ber Jesus said to a man who had lived thirty years in the
consciousness of lack, "Wilt thou be made whole?" and as
soon as the man conceived the idea of wholeness "immedi-
ately the man was made whole." So it is that in a half-
awakened consciousness of the truth we see the perfect
only in part; but with the coming of Truth we see clearly.
AFFIRMATION: The Truth of God Directs My Life.
49
PERCEPTION
50
The Lord is my light and my salvation. Psalms 27:1
di-LL THE WORLD is seeking security and equality,
but before we can bring security into our lives
we must learn the power of creative thought. We find
many today who would tell us that the insecurity we ex-
perience is from God. We know this is not true, for the
only God is one of love and justice. We know that what
we choose, through thought, shall be set in motion for us,
so our thought alone determines either limitation or
abundance. When, through seeking, we have the "mind of
Christ", we are brought into complete unison with good.
We have a sense of security and understand that although
God seeks us out, it is we who choose Him. Thus, we set
into motion the attracting power for all our desires.
Man creates his experience, but he cannot change the
inherent nature of reality. Since the nature of life is Good,
we are prompted to desire the Good - this is the Truth
and is an everpresent reality. When we think that Good is
not present where we are, we make it impossible for Good
to manifest where we are. If we utilize the present moment
to impress subjective mind with the fact that our condi-
tions are devoid of Good, the future cannot produce any-
thing better than we are now experiencing. We stamp the
Future with whatever ideas we are entertaining at the
present time. The "raw material" for Good is right where
we are, though our physical eyes may not see it.
AFFIRMATION: TJ:i,rough the Power of the Christ I
Decree the Good.
My help cometh from the Lord,
which made heaven and earth.
- Psalms 121:2
HUMILITY
52
He that built all things is God. Hebrews 3:4
/lT IS IN the quiet confidence of living within God's
.!..J will that we show forth the qualities of the Father.
God built the world for man, and man for the world. We
look about and see the misery and heartache and it would
seem difficult to live in accordance with the law of God's
abundance. In our course through life we make our own
hardships, or through ignorance feel that we must accept
the mistakes of others. To each of us life may be free
and glorious for we are equipped with the understanding
and the power to make of life just what we choose.
With an expansion of understanding, comes new
power. From a secret uneasiness within, we become im-
bued with a positive sense of conviction. Understanding
gives purpose and point to all our affairs and prevents us
from being dismayed by conditions that may arise. We
gain strength and force-thought instead of harboring the
weakness of fear. We learn to be at peace with ourselves
and with the world. We no longer make hasty decisions,
for all our appraisals are based upon thorough thought-
planning that results in balanced judgment. When the
realization of our unity with the source of all life is ac-
cepted, we lose all sense of fear for our thought is fixed
upon eternal understanding. We can say, "I am the Lord's"
for we have become one with His power and love, we have
truly become a part of the Infinite.
AFFIRMATION: My Life Is Filled With the Goodness of
God.
HUMILITY
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet. Psalms 119:105
("'oMETHING within every one is either consciously or
C) subconsciously reaching out to establish communi-
cation with God, to find the way to a more perfect
expression of the best within us. After the connection has
been made, many do all the talking, failing to listen as
God talks to them. Jesus said, "When thou prayest, enter
into thy closet, and when thou has shut the door, pray to
thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth
in secret shall reward thee openly." It is needful that we
talk with the Father, but it is also needful that we listen
for the "still small Voice".
We all need a place where we can be alone with God,
to talk with Him and hear His voice. Such a place for
Jesus and His disciples was this first Caesarea. To these
twelve men Christ was to leave the truth about His king-
dom on this earth. In the spreading forth of this truth
they would have need many times to find shelter in a
place of rest and quiet. The need for this retreat is just
as necessary for us today. In the jostling crowds and the
confusion of the world about us it is difficult to hear the
still, small voice with its message of strength and comfort.
For those of us who have learned the truth of this Kingdom
there is peace and joy. Only God Himself can reveal this
truth to us, but we must take time to listen and to follow
its commands.
AFFIRMATION: In The Silence I Find Rest and Strength.
53
HUMILITY
54
... they are the sons of God. Romans 8:14
f/o SAY that we are "human" and that we must think
'-f and act from a "human standpoint" is to stamp
every word and act with limited possibilities, to encourage
weakened conditions and to consciously invite adversity.
As children of God, we partake of the substance of God.
We know no limitation, no weakness, no negation. Our
powers are limitless, our love is boundless and our supply
inexhaustible. God has given us all things richly to enjoy,
and to the degree that we recognize ourselves as one with
and a part of God, are we able to receive of these riches.
This is our privilege today and every day.
As we look away from worldly limitations, we behold
the perfection of things as they exist in God. Only then
can our eyes not be clouded by the fog and the mist of
material things, and we see all things clearly and distinctly.
We see the picture of our own innate perfection as we
exist in God. We see the good in others as God sees them
freed from limited beliefs. Looking upward, a benediction
and a calmness fills our being. Spiritually and physically,
we then see with the perfect vision of spirit. With our
higher consciousness ever toward the Lord, we become so
filled with light that darkness can find no place in our
consciousness. Beholding no evil, we can experience no
evil.
AFFIRMATION: Each Day I Live My Sonship With the
Father.
HUMILITY
. .. and went away grieved. Mark 10:22
/1 N THE STORY of Nicodemus, we have a parallel in
..!..J the lives of some people today. They are sincere in
their desire to know the Truth and become humble in the
face of the Christ light as revealed to their inmost souls.
But, like Nicodemus, they turn away and miss the great-
est opportunity in life, to become a follower of that Christ.
This story gives us the reason why so many worthwhile
people fall short of the race. They want to follow the
Master, but, in the demands of life upon them, they fail
or refuse to take time for meditation and prayer to seek the
Christ within and let Him come forth. Only through
growth in the qualities that make for mastery do we attain
the Christhood.
By prayer we become conscious of living close to God,
and our thought lifted heavenward is our way of continu-
ally drawing closer and closer to Him. We need never
beseech God for blessings; we simply realize that these
are ours already, knowing that all that the Father has is
given gladly and lovingly from His abundant store of
supply when we are ready to receive them. In prayer we
talk with God. He talks with us when we await Him in
silent meditation. We rejoice that we have the privilege
of coming to Him at all times and to abide in the protecting
presence of His power.
AFFIRMATION: I Tarry to Learn of the Spirit.
55
HUMILITY
56
Before honor is humility. Proverbs 15:33
l / UMILITY is a priceless possession, but easily lost.
0'1" By humility, we do not mean lack of dignity;
rather, humility is but another name for truthfulness. The
success you gain through use of Divine Power is not an
accomplishment for which you can take all the credit. In
fact, none of your victories are yours alone. You are a
minor part of a partnership, and though you enjoy in full
the fruits of your efforts assisted by Divine Power, you
cannot forget the source of your blessings. Honor; and
humility truly go hand in hand. When you lose humility,
you forget the art of working with God.
Each one has access to a principle of life, which, when
rightly understood and used, will turn all inharmony into
harmony. That principle is the reigning factor of our
higher consciousness in which we lay hold of Spirit and
establish a state of perfect adjustment. When we recognize
this Principle - when we let God rule our minds and
affairs - we will no longer be governed by beliefs that
bring disorder and inharmony. When we come to think
only orderly thoughts, keeping our minds in line with
the Truth we have learned and applying our Truth teach-
ings, we will find all of our affairs will be in perfect order
and harmony. The principle of God that keeps the planets
and stars in perfect order should be our standard.
AFFIRMATION: I See The Hand of God in All My
Prosperity.
HUMILITY
Serving the Lord with all humility of mind. Acts 20:19
,nNLY IN GOD'S PRESENCE should you feel humil-
L,/ ity. The Mayor of your city may be better known
than you, your County Commissioner may have certain
community stature, your Congressman may be a better
politician - but in the sight of God you are all equal.
These leaders created those positions for themselves by
using the same powers you possess and do not enjoy any
ability you cannot develop. You have to create your own
prosperity by making full use of your Divine Intelligence
in cooperation with God. You must acquire experience in
using Divine Substance, but you have the basic elements
necessary for success and you can achieve abundance
through cooperation with God.
The truly successful person is that one who has learned
to adjust conditions into harmonious living. Success should
be the part of every day, for it is a conscious satisfaction
in our perception of life and our relationship to it. Our
success does not depend upon others. The greatest reason
for success is the fact that we are a part of God's creation
and without clamor or boasting we may completely realize
that we are reason enough for our own success. Success
is first an attitude of mind before it can manifest in the
outer world of affairs, and the thought having been sown
must be nourished by continued constructive thinking and
actions.
AFFIRMATION: All Things Are Possible When I Work
With God.
57
HUMILITY
58
He must increase, but I must decrease. John 3:30
f[OHN WAS well known and loved for his work in
d preaching the gospel of the Saviour. Yet the final
test of his greatness came when he laid aside all that he
had to sit at the feet of the Master. His was the giving of
himself to the service of the Christ. That is the true mean-
ing of faith. It is not until we give ourself to follow the
commandments of the Master that we demonstrate the
faith in Him that overcomes the temptations of our ma-
terial world. Then, and then only, are we truly disciples
of the Lord.
It is not enough to profess a belief in God. Only as we
glorify Him by our thought and action are we enriched
and strengthened. In our every act, no matter how small,
we must be motivated by the highest inspiration if we are
to find blessing. Our light cannot shine before us if we do
not keep our wick trimmed and our lamp filled with oil.
The light is the presence of the Eternal Spirit; but the
vessel that is to be lighted must be kept clean and in work-
ing order. This is the self-conscious act of each individual.
If we do not make of ourselves a vessel for the burning
light, then we condemn ourselves to walk in darkness.
As we let the Light shine through us in thought and in
deed, we shall be a light along our way and a beacon
unto our fellow men to guide them to the Light of Life.
AFFIRMATION: I Strive to Be A True Disciple of The
Christ.
fD EFORE we proceed further, let us pause and take
..:.J.::J stock of your progress. Turning to the Inner Self,
let us ask this significant question: "Have I moved toward
God's fullness to the extent of which I am capable?"
If you have not, do not be disappointed. There is no
time limit to God's promises, nor is there a limit to the
time in which we can prepare ourselves to demonstrate
His promises. Yesterday may have brought disappoint-
ment in our efforts to materialize our desires. But there
is a today and a tomorrow, and every new day is a NEW
OPPORTUNITY. Every new day is a day of promise so
long as Desire is strong and Faith is firm.
Faith is the power by which all things are accomplished,
but it is not a power that can be turned on and off at
will. It must be nurtured and given the opportunity of
expression, and the life of faith is one of continuing
growth.
If you had a valuable plant, you would develop it with
loving care. It would be planted where it would receive
full benefit of nature's life-giving substance. It would be
carefully fed to develop a strong root system upon which
depends the growth of the plant and the perfection of its
bloom. You would guard and protect it from every evil so
its flowering would be a thing of splendor.
It is no less true of Faith, for it does not grow and
blossom of its own accord. There must be an understand-
ing of faith, an appreciation of its power to touch God's
59
INTERLUDE
60
fullness. And there must be a desire for faith so intense
that its rewards can be awaited with patience. Even a little
faith has its reward, but as faith is nurtured and used, it
grows. Then, when it emerges above the darkness of fear
and doubt, it blossoms forth to bring back into our lives
all the beauty of God's promises.
Faith is easier to accept than it is to reject, for on
every hand there is faith-building substance. In every
hour of life there are occurrences to inspire it. One can-
not see the delicate petals and color of a beautiful flower
without an inward acknowledgment of faith in an Om-
nipotent Power. One cannot consider the bounty of nature
without creating in the Inner Self a desire to reach out
and contact the Power of Creation. One cannot think back
on the many pleasures and advantages of life, for which
so little to merit them has been done, without knowing
how responsive to his desires is the Fountain from which
all good flows.
Remember always that these meditations are the
means to an end. They alone can do nothing to change your
life. They are as seed, which is powerless to produce until
it is planted in the fertile soil, tended, and given an oppor-
tunity to flower into the fulfillment of its purpose. Your
mind is the soil in which the seed of thought is planted.
Your efforts toward the development of that thought is
the tending. When the truth on which you meditate is
given this opportunity to take hold on your life, it will
help you, step by step, toward God's fullness. Remember
that as you proceed He is with you to reveal His Truth
and give you joy beyond all your fondest desires. Let Him
lead you to victory!
I~
. and hereby we know that He abideth in us,
by the Spirit which He hath given us.
- l fohn 3:24
LOVE
62
Let us not love in word . .. but in deed and truth.
I John 3:18
/1 OVE IS COMMONLY thought of as an emotion sub-
_L sisting in the heart of one person for another. The
world in general has not learned that love is a conscious-
ness into which one enters through allowing the Christ
spirit to take possession of him. To enter into this con-
sciousness, we think only loving thoughts toward all those
about us, following up our thoughts with deeds of love.
Love is an unvarying principle. While love cannot be seen
with the eye of flesh, its manifestations are plainly visible.
It may seem easier to love God than to love our neighbor,
but this is an illusion of the personal consciousness and has
no place in the spiritually-awakened man.
Love is not something that we strive to attain; it is one
of the fruits of the Spirit. As we live in the Spirit, love is
a natural result. Sometimes we may be surprised that we
feel no spirit of hatred when cruelly treated; instead, we
wish to pray for the one who has despitefully used us. The
reason is that God has planted His love and compassion in
our heart. But what shall we do if this divine love for all
is lacking in our hearts? First, we must walk closer with
God and ask His guidance. Then we must learn to lay
bare our hearts to Him and ask Him to give us this spirit
of love. If we do this, we will soon find that all anger,
doubt and fear will have disappeared. We have gained
the fruit of the Spirit which is love.
AFFIRMATION: I Seek to Be Filled With God's Love.
LOVE
The fruit of the spirit is love. Galatians 5:22
f/HERE IS BUT ONE POWER in the universe - God.
"-! That Power manifests in and through all form, all
people, all conditions. This Power is Life Itself and Its
center is Love. Just as light dissipates darkness, so a con-
sciousness of good overcomes evil and overcomes the nega-
tion of evil - hatred. When we refuse to think of hatred,
it will disappear. Hatred cannot exist where love is, and
knowing that good alone is real, we have but to turn the
searchlight of Truth upon every so-called evil and these
dark places are instantly dissolved into light.
The one way to neutralize hatred is through love. Even
the most unloving person will come to feel its power. That
person will find thoughts of love filling his mind as
thoughts of the old hatred disappear. When we have the
love of Christ within our own souls, we will give love for
hatred, forgiveness for unforgiveness. With love we learn
to give up all belief in limitation in our lives and in the
lives of others. We no longer see the faults and short-
comings in our brother, for we know that within him, too,
is the Christ. Through our love for that one, he must in
time see himself perfect, as he really is in the sight of his
Creator. In love there is healing of all ills, for love takes
away the thoughts that cause disease and in its place health
and harmony are established.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Loving and Forgiving Toward All.
63
LOVE
64
. .. That ye love one another. John 15:17
/IN THIS COMMAND of Jesus, we are to realize that
}_/ without love there can be no demonstration. He was
trying to show in these words that only as we love can we
attract love to us. Here, as in every phase of experience,
like attracts like, like qualities attract each other; hatred
attracts hatred; love attracts love. Real love will stand the
test of time and experience through the force of attraction.
But false attraction based upon purely material matters
will disappear when trouble comes.
In the realm of perfect love there is no room for fear,
for love encompasses only good. In truth, fear is the exact
antithesis of love. Fear is to love as darkness is to light.
We fail to experience that perfect love when we allow our
human prejudices to shape our love, making that law fear-
ful and possessive. But perfect love embraces the Universe
Itself, knows that it is a part of a God of love, and gives its
essence forth to all people indiscriminately, knowing that
all men are of God, Good. Those without love cannot bear
need long, nor can they bear fortune long. But with Love
in the heart there is peace. If we have not experienced
that selfless love, we have not experienced the love from
others that we need and crave, and we find a loneliness,
which we try so hard to dispel. Love makes every experi-
ence rich and full, for it enriches the one who expresses
it as well as the one loved.
AFFIRMATION: Perfect Love Fills and Sustains Me.
LOVE
We love him, because he first loved us. I John 4:19
f/HERE CAN be no spiritual progress for man without
"-f the love of Christ in his heart. The untiring and
persistent love of Christ to us existed long before we be-
came aware of it. But there comes a day when we awaken
to this love of God for us, and from that awakening there
is born within us love for God and love for each other. We
express our love for God in a thankful expression for His
never failing love and abundance for us. But always along
with that love for God there comes a love for our neighbor.
As the Father has freely forgiven us for all weakness and
shortcomings, so must we forgive those who might, in
their ignorance, cause us pain or loss.
The world's great example of forgiveness is Jesus who
freely forgave all those who mistreated Him. His rising
above the natural tendency to resent persecution came
from the all-powerful divine love, which He expressed
at every opportunity. Because of this great love, He could
look past all apparent cruelty and see that everyone was
His brother or sister. In His love for them, He could look
upon them much as the mother looks upon her child when
it unknowingly does wrong. To forgive is to love, and to
love is to let the Christ Spirit have first place in our lives.
Healing love dissolves resentment, which cannot endure in
the presence of the forgiving love of Christ.
AFFIRMATION: Christ's Love in Me Forgives All.
65
LOVE
66
He that loveth not, knoweth not God. I John 4:8
rf /l /HEN LOVE is brought to bear upon a problem, we
' VV soon discover that there is no longer a problem
to be solved. If we fear some person or some circumstance,
let us learn to love. No person or situation can prevail
against the solvent power of love. If we believe that hatred
has power, then let us realize that the love of God is all-
powerful. If the demonstration of health is delayed, the
fault is in ourselves that we have not yet learned to love
enough. Let us fill our minds and our bodies so full of
love that there can be no place for disease or inharmony.
Until we know for a certainty that God is a God of
Love and that all created things are a part of the God of
Love, we will never have reached the place where we feel
the love that others have for us. It is this love, which is
the healing power flowing constantly from one to another,
that bathes us in its strength and unity. Every true be-
liever understands that love overcomes all hatred and fear
through the subtle power of transformation. With love
toward God, we must have love for our fellow men. The
world may clamor for efficiency, but God demands love.
The plaudits of the world may be for skill, knowledge and
strength, but Jesus says, "Thou shalt love." May we seek to
know that the indwelling Spirit forever pours its blessings
upon us and upon all others who will accept those blessings
. . . and that "the greatest of these is love."
AFFIRMATION: The Love of God Is in All I Meet.
LOVE
A man that hath friends must show himself friendly.
Proverbs 18:24
f/HERE IS no reason why anyone should go through
"-J life feeling lonely and without friends. The first
step toward having friends is to be a friend to others. This
does not mean making a pretense of friendliness. Many
say they have tried to be friendly and have failed, but the
truth is they failed to pay the price for true and lasting
friendship. Too often they are not willing to put them-
selves out in any way to show their sincerity. They want
friendship, but they want that gift without having to make
compensation for it, to sacrifice something of their own
personal feelings or pleasures. The law of Compensation
says we must give of ourselves to gain something of others.
It is in this mutual giving and receiving that the true
spirit of friendliness is revealed.
The doors of the whole world are open to us when we
have learned the real meaning of friendship and know how
to be a friend. Friendship goes hand in hand with Love,
and is recognized as the Christ within. Love is the final
expression of our spiritual life, and friendship is in-
dissolubly linked with love. As a preparation for friend-
ship we should remove from mind all thoughts of judg-
ment, and believe that all others are willing to be our
friend. It is our privilege to help others by extending to
them our friendship, having realized that we all have a
common heritage of good.
AFFIRMATION: I Give Friendship That I May Have
Friends.
67
LOVE
68
Love is the fulfilling of the law. Romans 13:10
(/RUE AND LASTING happiness can only come when
"-J we express love, for love is man's true nature.
When love is not present within us, we are out of harmony
with the truth of our being. We all remember the feeling
of peace and satisfaction that came over us when we with-
held the unkind word or selfish deed. Unlike many quali-
ties, we do not acquire love, for it is the very basis of our
being; but it lies dormant in many lives through lack of
expression. If at times we have a longing for love that
seems to be denied us, that longing does not come from
lack of the love of others, but from an innate need within
ourselves to let love flow from us to those needing love.
If there is lack of love in our lives, let us meditate often
upon the truth that love is the essence of our being.
Divine love is the power that blesses and frees and that
beholds the Christ in all people. As we seek to establish
this law of divine love in our life and affairs, health, peace
and happiness fill our being. Love is the great healing and
harmonizing force, as it soothes the mind and blesses the
soul with peace and satisfaction. Let us ever strive to make
divine love our watchword throughout every day. Divine
love radiating from our hearts will light the way and guide
us into paths of success and power. Love gives us the poise
and discernment that are necessary in order that we may
meet the problems of life without fear.
AFFIRMATION: My Life Is Filled With Peace and
Goodness.
He hath put a new song in my
mouth, even praise unto our God.
- Psalms 40:3
JOY
70
Unto God my exceeding joy. Psalms 43:4
/JOY IS a positive emotion and draws many joys to it-
d. self; gloom is negative and attracts a legion of
depressive thoughts. Gloom depresses one mentally and
physically, just as joy lifts a person up and exalts him.
The way to get rid of sadness and gloom is to neutralize
them through exercising joy. Turning to the inner springs
of joy, we release them and joy pours forth in such a
measure that there is no place for gloom and depression.
The thing that depresses us at one time may later prove
a source of joy. When we have mastered our gloom, its
source no longer will seem to be our master.
We cannot be joyful and sorrowful at the same time,
nor can we be depressed when we are filled with joy. It is
impossible to believe that God is the source of our joy,
while believing that external things and persons are able
to take from us that joy. To be joyful we must live in the
realization that there is nothing that can possibly inter-
fere with our joy, for we have found within us a joy that
never changes. When our joy is based upon Truth it be-
comes permanently established; it will not disappear at
the appearance of some difficult situation or some un-
pleasing personality. With this joy of the Christ within,
we come closer to the condition of heaven, for we know
that neither sorrow nor depression can come near to that
place in our consciousness where only joy and peace abide.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Free from Gloom; God Is My Joy.
JOY
God answereth him in the joy of his heart. Ecclesiastes 5:20
,nN THE DAYS of the Puritans any expression of joy
V was looked upon as a sin. This in spite of the fact
that the Bible is full of allusions to joy and gladness and a
merry heart. It was said that joy softens more hearts than
tears. Joy is an inner attitude of a person's mind toward
life. It is not dependent upon material circumstances, suc-
cess or fate, for some of the expressions of greatest joy were
made by those who would seem to have little about which
to be joyful. Paul in a Roman prison, Beethoven impover-
ished and deaf, Henly, and many others gave to the world
truly great masterpieces of joyous expression.
Some people still believe in the old thought that to be
truly religious one must be solemn and that gayety and joy
have no place in the life of a true Christian. This idea is
fast disappearing and we know that to live rightly and to
love deeply brings with it happiness here and now. Joy is
a healthy state of mind and all of us like those who are
gay and light when it comes from a true sincere heart. That
is the kind of person we like to be around, for however
downcast we may feel we catch their spirit of joy and we,
too, feel joyous. The universe was planned for all that is
bright and wholesome and we, as a part of that universe,
possess the power to know joy and to express it, and in so
doing we express God.
AFFIRMATION: Joy and Gladness Are in My Heart.
71
JOY
72
Keep thy heart with all diligence. Proverbs 4:23
(/HE HEART is the source from which the issues flow,
~ so it is wise that we keep watch over the heart in
order that the issues coming from it be of a high spiritual
value. When Jesus spoke of the pearl of great price, He
perhaps referred to these issues of life. Out of the heart
comes character, the qualities of which are virtue, godliness
and righteousness. Out of the body come the issues of
health, and out of the mind comes the issue of knowledge.
How carefully we should guard the mind, the body and
the heart that we may have the qualities of each that go to
make up a full and worthwhile way of life.
Life would be much pleasanter and more profitable,
yes and more spiritual, if we would enjoy living it. As
there is only one life, power, law and mind, then all that
we will ever be proceeds from this one life, God. In this
kind of life there can be no opposition of forces, for there
is a process of daily unfoldment. As we come to see this
life unfolding, it will offer us great pleasure and good.
Our spiritual growth will increase because our knowledge
will unite us consciously to the Infinite and we will follow
in the path of unified purpose and action. If we will bring
a knowledge of our complete unity with the Divine into
our thoughts, in the same way that we bring light into a
darkened room, then we shall find revealed the path of life
that is the path of oneness with all.
AFFIRMATION: I Take Joy and Pleasure in Living Life.
JOY
For I will turn their mourning into joy. Jeremiah 31:13
f/HERE IS NO power on earth or in heaven that can
'-! turn mourning into joy if we persist in our grief. It
is impossible to have two mental states at one time. If we
would have sorrow changed to joy we must be emptied of
our sorrow before we are ready to receive the joy of the
Christ. Joy is a state of mind not to be found in any certain
place, but exists in each of us here and now. Whenever
we find ourselves sinking back into the feeling of fear,
uncertainty and grief, let us remind ourselves of the
promise of our Father to "turn mourning into joy".
Too often we allow ourselves to divide our mental
house against itself. Our experiences in life will be in
exact accord to the mold of our acceptance, for the infinite
fills all molds as our minds dictate. A poised and peaceful
state of mind can be ours when we study, think and medi-
tate upon those things that tend to calm and erase all
thought of fear and irritation. Let us always believe in
the future, and claim a greater realization of our true
work and our rightful place in the world from this future.
If we claim that, the future will expand our opportunity
for greater self expression and will pour into our daily
experiences those greater and better things. A definite
daily effort to think of the things of the spirit will be the
magnet to draw them to us and our existence will be
harmonious progression.
AFFIRMATION: Truth Fills Me With Joy and Love.
73
JOY
74
We also shouLd walk in the newness of life. Romans 6:4
f /OW WONDERFUL it is to greet each day with our
Of minds cleared of all the false memories of the
past, and feel that each day we have reached a higher
spiritual level than the day just gone by. Each day we see
a different world, a new world since the world is being
transformed through right thinking and the outpouring of
spiritual power. Let us refuse to live in a world of belief
in age, decay and death. Let us not allow ourselves to be
influenced by the mistakes of the past. By seeing a new
world each day and finding new blessings, we change our
viewpoint and train ourselves to see it in its ever increasing
newness as it is in truth.
We too often look to experiences to make us happy,
but this is just the reverse of where to find real joy. We
have but to watch the person who does not understand the
real source of joy to realize how insecure is the joy that
things and conditions alone can give us. True joy rises as a
deep sense of unity and an appreciation of the fulness of
life. It would indeed be well for one to live each day as
though it were the first and most important day of his life.
Most of us acquire our unhappiness from the mistaken
attitude of trying to live in the future or in the past. When
we refuse to look with regret at the past and refuse to
anticipate the future with fear, we will live joyously and
confidently.
AFFIRMATION: I Find Joy in All of My Experiences.
JOY
My heart rejoiced in all my labour. Ecclesiastes 2:10
I/ODAY let us be joyful. Let us express the joy within
'-f us in every word we speak, for a joyful spirit
uplifts and blesses those about us. Let us be alert to rec-
ognize new opportunities for spreading joy and gladness
in the world. Let the joy within shed itself to those around
us and they, in turn, will become joyful and their joy will
inspire and bless others. Let us strive to be joyous under
all conditions, so that our work is easier and we can do it
more harmoniously and well. Let the words we speak be
vibrant with joy and filled with healing power, so that
they lift up those who are discouraged and unhappy.
The joyous person is a magnet for many blessings.
There is a psychological law by which joyous gratitude
produces harmony and peace in one's life. In times when
we feel depressed, it is well that we meditate upon the
joy of knowing that through the Christ within we are
victorious over all things of the outer world. Within each
one is a Something that tells us that the turmoil of the
world cannot disturb us for it is not Reality and must pass.
We are able to keep our poise knowing that the existence
of all things is rooted in the One - God. All of our minor
problems thus become dissolved in the sense of unity -
the sense of peace, understanding and fulfillment. Let us
sing a song of thanksgiving that we can never be separated
from the source of our joy, God and His life.
AFFIRMATION: Only Joy Can Come Into My Life.
75
JOY
76
He hath made ev erything beautiful in His time.
Ecclesiastes 3:11
_(fF WE ARE to get the most out of life each day, we
must be refreshed by the spirit of truth and live
close to its principles. Food for the physical body and
spiritual food for the mind will build happiness and health
into our experiences. Happiness is a state of mind depend-
ing to a degree upon the fact of how much we come into
understanding of the true reality of life and our relation
to that life. But happiness depends also upon each one's
individual effort in living in accordance with the highest
and best of our understanding. Within each one, is all the
creative force needed for the right conduct of all our affairs.
The condition of joy is purely a mental one, not con-
cerned with persons, things or conditions but identified
strictly with thought. It is our thoughts, our feelings and
reactions toward the outer world which cause us joy or
sadness. To one a certain thing or condition may bring
sadness; to another that same thing or condition may bring
joy. It is our thought alone that governs our reactions to
any certain condition. Since our thought about things
determines our reaction of either happiness or unhappiness,
we have two doors open to us. We may take the attitude
that, since happiness is found within, things and conditions
do not have power over us; or we may realize that by
keeping our thoughts joyful, we shall always react to
external things through the spirit of joy.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Joyous in Every Situation.
How beautiful are the feet of them
that preach the gospel of peace . .
~Romans 10:15
PEACE
78
Follow peace with all men ... Hebrews 12:14
<1 /J /HEN ONE IS at peace with himself, God and all
' l/V men, he abides in a consciousness akin to heaven.
Peace gives us a feeling that we are in the very presence
of God. Many might ask what destroys our peace. The
answer is that not perceiving the Truth of God we allow
ourselves to think thoughts of fear and hatred. We think
and live contrary to the life of Spirit, but by knowing the
truth and living it, we can restore peace to ourselves and
to those about us. We may perhaps feel that our life is so
ordained, so given to confusion, that there can be no peace
for us. But there can be only one reason why we do not
have peace; we do not give up personal consciousness and
lay hold of the impersonal or the spiritual life.
There are both inward and outward sides of peace.
Essential as is the outward side of peace, yet without the
inward side, which is the cause side, there can be no real
outer peace. This outer peace is much like a mighty tree,
which would be nothing without the roots, the unseen side
of that tree. Only as we gain this peace of God in our own
souls, will come the outer peace between men and nations.
When our hearts are filled with love and kindness, when
we learn to forgive and forget the mistakes of the past,
then we have the peace of God which passeth all under-
standing. Peace must be formed within before it can
become a reality in the outer.
AFFIRMATION: I Unite Myself With the Peace of God.
PEACE
Now the God of peace ... make you perfect ...
Hebrews 13:20-21
f/HE WHOLE WORLD is looking for peace; peace in
'-f mind, in body and in environment. We have all
visualized the harmony of heaven. At times we can sense
this peace in such a way as to know that we can lay hold
of it and cause it to manifest in our own lives. True peace
is devoid of all worry, confusion and disorder. When we
become truly peaceful, we are master over those thoughts
that would destroy peace. We realize that within ourselves
is something mightier than things of the outer world. We
know that nothing in the world about us can affect the
peace of God within us.
The peace of God is the heritage of all those who will
accept it. Often we have been robbed of this peace from
without and from within. From without we have been
beset with persecutions and afflictions, and from within
by fear, anxiety and doubt. Just as the church at
Thessalonica was ravaged by these things, the same de-
structive forces operate around us today. The foundations
of peace are to be found within ourselves by letting the
Christ spirit lead us. But to secure and to keep this peace
requires daily communion with the Father, during which
time we are refreshed and revitalized with the living
water of Truth. Truth stands as a refuge for those whose
souls are cast down. In the finding of this peace for
ourselves, we help others to find the way of peace in Christ.
AFFIRMATION: Peace Reigns in All of My Affairs.
79
PEACE
80
Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Isaiah 26:3
ffHE CONSCIOUSNESS of an inner realization of
"-I our harmonious relation to Spirit within gives us the
power to meet all experiences in a peaceful and satisfying
manner. If we need to realize this presence of peace, we
can do so by turning our thoughts away from the things
of the outer world that disturb, and know that within us is
perfect peace, and that in the degree we let our thought
center upon only the harmonious conditions will the peace
we seek manifest in our lives. By training the mind to
think peaceful thoughts, we build up a consciousness of
peace that is reflected in all that we do and say.
In the realm of Truth, there is nothing that can
destroy our peace. Many persons are unhappy because they
believe that others have power to destroy their peace of
mind, but this cannot be true, for we have only to turn
within and find there the peace of Christ. God is ever
peaceful, ever abiding at the heart of our being as a
limitless power for peace. When we turn in thought away
from that which seems inharmonious, we realize its un-
reality and behold in Spirit the ever presence of peace.
We can bring harmony into our lives and environment if
we but let God be expressed through us. He is peace and
harmony and His omnipresence assures us of perfect,
abiding peace. Things have no power to make us unhappy,
for the power of God quickens us with eternal peace.
AFFIRMATION: I Am At Peace With Myself and All.
PEACE
He shall enter into peace. Isaiah 57:2
_/1/IENTAL AND PHYSICAL relaxation comes only
0 V l when the mind is freed from thoughts that
produce tension. Thoughts of fear, revenge, resistance and
hatred all produce tension. These thoughts are mostly
concerned about other persons, and freedom from personal
consciousness helps to free us from this thought. Mental
tension is quickly felt throughout the entire physical body.
Taut nerves and muscles relax when mental relaxation is
produced. Thoughts of love and faith carry us into the
realm of deep restful sleep, the place where the cares of
the day are forgotten and laid aside. Holding others in
the thought of loving peace is a wonderful soothing and
restful condition for both mind and body.
It is well to begin our day in a spirit of relaxation. Rest
will come to us in the realization that God will be guiding
us in all that we do. With practice, we can teach every
muscle of our body to relax and let go. Every tissue, nerve
and cell will be receptive to this inflowing life and energy
of God. Our responsibilities drop away and we open our
minds to the inflow of Spirit. Resting in this quietude and
communion, we feel our oneness with all the universe and
we have the assurance that God is directing us into the
right way in all that may come to us in the day's activities.
When we have these moments of silently talking to Him,
we reach the place of serenity that nothing can disturb.
AFFIRMATION: In the Quiet With God, I Am At Rest.
81
PEACE
82
Let not your heart be troubled. John 14:1
(1 ;J /E HAVE moments when our hearts are heavy and
' l/V troubled, when even Truth seems to fail us. At
such times it would be well for us to quietly meditate upon
the words of the Master and take Him at His word, believ-
ing that our anxieties and our fears are groundless.
Through the unrest of these days, our hearts need not be
troubled if we only learn to talk it over with the Father
and listen to His words, to fear not for He is ever beside
us. Whatever the cause of our troubled hearts, His loving
hand is outstretched to guide us through the darkness to
the light beyond. Why should we fear or worry? The
Lord is with us saying, "Let not your heart be troubled,
neither let it be afraid."
When our minds are filled with trust in God, there is
no room for the anxious thought. We cannot believe in evil
as coming to us when we realize that God is only Good and
can bring only good into our lives. Anxiety is based upon
the belief that somehow something will interfere with the
work of God and His good will be delayed. We need to
realize that God is omnipotent and that nothing in the
world can work us harm. If today we are filled with
anxious thoughts, let us cease to think of persons, things
or circumstances as having power over us. Christ in us as
master will free us from this fear. Let us become estab-
lished in trust, knowing that good alone is ours.
AFFIRMATION: I Place My Trust in God and Am Free.
PEACE
The Lord shall fight for you. Exodus 14:14
f/HE BEST WAY to clear discord from our lives is to
"-f think and speak the word of peace. When we no
longer think in terms of discord, we will not have discord
or inharmony with us. The harmonious person is the one
whose mind, body and affairs express harmony. That one
is the very center of his life world and he is the central
sum from which the rays of harmony radiate in every
direction. If these rays brighten or diminish, they do so
only through the consciousness of the person himself. So,
if we do not radiate harmony, if we are combative and
contentious, we know that at heart we are not harmonious.
Inharmony cannot touch the mind that is filled with
thoughts of peace. Each one has the power to think
thoughts of peace or thoughts of inharmony. God's will for
us is peace. Knowing this we need never give way to any
inharmonious situation. To the one who lives in the
consciousness of God's presence, that one can know only
the peace of the Christ. Others cannot show the peaceful
attitude toward us if we do not show forth that attitude
toward them, so we should train ourselves to be peaceful
in all our relations with others. Blessings flow easily to
those who are peaceful. When we become conscious of
God's peace and live in it, we attract blessings. Our poise
is a magnet that attracts the good things to us and.we may
choose, therefore, what blessings we desire.
AFFIRMATION: My Mind Is Filled With Peace.
83
PEACE
84
My people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation.
Isaiah 32:18
,nuR PEACE OF MIND can never be disturbed when it
V is firmly established in the Presence of the Christ.
The way to be peaceful is by turning away from things of
the world that disturb us and turning toward the Christ
within. Nothing can disturb us for long when His calm
assurance floods our being. When we feel that things of
the world have the power to make us unhappy or fearful,
let us remember that His presence is more powerful than
external things and in that presence there is always peace.
We can at all times turn to that presence and become
peaceful.
When we turn our attention to the indwelling God, we
approach the stillness of Spirit. We then lose sight of the
things of the outer world that have caused us confusion.
This place of quiet at the center of our being is akin to
heaven, for heavenly quiet reigns there supreme. The
doors seem to be closed upon the noises of the external
world and we reach that inner sanctuary in which God is
and where the stillness of His peace is everywhere about
us. We receive new power and strength. We come to the
realization that we can measure up to all that is required
of us as children of God. By means of this stillness, we
enter into that power that is from above. We are secure
in the love and the life of our Father and lay hold of His
spiritual might.
AFFIRMATION: Spirit Frees From All False Beliefs.
I shall yet praise Him, who is the health
of my countenance, and my God ..
~Psalms 42:11
HEALTH
86
I wiH heal him, and restore comforts unto him. Isaiah 57:18
__flLL THROUGH the ages disease has caused suffer-
C7T ing, unhappiness and fear to countless thousands.
Efforts of science have failed to put down this evil which
the world has accepted, some with impatience, some with
resignation, feeling that it is sent upon them because of
punishment, and some because it is God's means of testing
their faith. But neither the Old nor the New Testament jus-
tifies that negative attitude. In His work on earth Jesus
sought first to teach men the truth of His real self; but He
also gave to the people of that day healing for their bodies.
The fact that the Lord promises healing, recognizes
sickness as existent in the world. Healing is not a matter of
ignoring disorder or refusing to admit weakness. Rather it
is composed of equal parts of trust, faith and desire. If we
desire health and have faith in God's goodness and His
ability to overcome all material influences, it is an easy
matter to set forces in motion that will cure all body ills.
Sickness is not a matter of germs as much as it is a matter
of will power. It is not as much a matter of physical dis-
order as of mind disturbances. Cleanse the mind of all
belief in weakness and the powers above will fill your body
with such overall strength that you will be superior to all
forms of disease. Suffering is not our natural condition and
if we do not enjoy comfort in every respect we are out of
harmony with Divine Supply.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Well and Strong in Eternal Faith.
HEALTH
They were healed every one. Acts 5:16
f]NHARMONY IN MIND or body is an indication that
we have temporarily ceased to become a channel
for the vitalizing life of Christ to flow through. We have
become out of tune with God's Spirit of harmony and
health so that this inharmony has manifested itself in ill
health of some kind. In His statement, "Before Abraham
was born, I am", Jesus stated in mystical terms the truth
that this vitalizing life of Spirit is eternal and deathless.
Although at times this life may seem to be imperfect, yet
its essence is forever perfect. The first step toward our
complete healing is to become more receptive to the ever-
renewing life that is continually seeking to express itself
through us.
No one who is constantly talking about sickness and
disease can radiate health. We demonstrate health when
we give our attention to health rather than to the lack of it.
It is good common sense to pay attention to rules of diet
and the care of the physical body. Yet the matter of our
thinking is of more importance. To be always thinking
about sickness, and fear that we may lose our health, is
planting the seeds of ill health and inharmony of all kinds.
But when we change these thoughts to one of health and
belief in health as rightfully ours, we will soon find that
health and harmony are manifesting in mind and body.
AFFIRMATION: I Manifest Perfect Health in Christ
Jesus.
87
HEALTH
88
Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me dean. Matthew 8:2
CJ OR CENTURIES people have made pilgrimages to
::T places where they might find healing. Because of
their faith, many thousands have received their healings.
Many of us have made mental pilgrimages in the endeavor
to find some source of power that could help us. We
would not fail to appreciate or question the healings found
at shrines or meccas; yet it was not the certain place or
shrine, but the faith of those ones, through which they
found healing. There is no source of power outside of God.
No one has more access to or use of God's power than
another. As God is everywhere present, there is as much
of His power available in one place as in another.
The way of spiritual healing is made plain in the case
of the lame man at the Pool of Bethesda. The faith of this
man was in the waters of the Pool to heal him. Such faith
deserved to be rewarded and it took only the command of
Jesus, "Arise, take up thy bed and walk," to turn that faith
into action. Spiritual healing is the natural healing for
man. It takes great faith and courage to speak and to act
as if one were well when all appearances point to the con-
trary. Jesus recognized the innate perfection and saw what
they might become when set free from the bonds of sin and
disease. Most of the world looks upon spiritual healings
as something supernatural; but we know it is our rightful
heritage and claim it in faith.
AFFIRMATION: I Look to Spirit for My Healing.
HEALTH
I will restore health unto thee. Jeremiah 30:17
f lODAY THE WORLD is awakening to the power
"-f within, that consciousness of any faculty or power
holds within itself the manifestation and perfection of any
part of the body. Since the final creative agency in the
universe is Mind and we are of that Mind, this Healing
Presence can only do its work through us as we believe in
it and claim that it is now operating through our faith. Our
word is definite and conscious as we recognize that the
God within us, as a healing presence, is the law of perfect
life in our physical body.
Within man is the creative thought, which is power
either to destroy or to perfect. The substance of which our
bodies are made is the God-Substance, which must be
perfect; but for generations, through our ignorance, we
have allowed some physical destruction to take place in
our bodies. We do not deny that our bodies may become
sick and appear to decay, that physical destruction of one
kind or another does take place. But we affirm that if we
conceive of the perfection in which we were created and
are sustained, then to that degree can we claim the power
to heal ourselves. We have too long looked with fear upon
the evidences of destruction until we have come to believe
in them. However, with an unswerving belief in perfec-
tion we will find healing of every imperfection made
possible in faith.
AFFIRMATION: God Renews and Sustains My Body.
89
HEALTH
90
Our Saviour, Jesus Christ, who abolished death.
II Timothy 1:10
(/oo MANY of us think of life as something that can
._, be defeated by disease or death, when, in fact, life
is eternal and unchangeable, founded upon the everlasting
life of God. Surely no power can oppose God, who is Life.
It is because of man's ignorance of the truth about life and
his living in accordance with the lack of understanding,
that disease and death have become the daily companions
of man today.
The world has long believed more in sickness than in
health - has anticipated the destructive power of disease
and decay; in short, has feared the effect of life upon our
existence. Yet we are made of a timeless and eternal sub-
stance, which cannot be destroyed. This fear of disease and
pain results from a conscious or unconscious thought of
fear, for fear is a thought of man. In fact fear is actually
faith - faith in the thing we fear. We can find healing only
by coming to the realization that our body is the Temple of
the Living Spirit, which must sustain its dwelling in per-
fection. Understanding the Truth of our being, we must
believe that the life of Christ in us can never go out. We
must not only believe that, but must demonstrate His life
as our life and in that way we will abolish fear of disease
and death. The mind built this fear and the mind alone can
tear it down, replacing it with the knowledge of health and
life.
AFFIRMATION: Bountiful Life Shows Forth in My Body.
HEALTH
... and mine age is as nothing before thee. Psalms 39:5
/1N MANY PEOPLE, even the young in years, there
1.J exists a fear of old age. This comes from anticipated
physical decay, as well as a fear that age may come before
they have accomplished all their desires. However, we
should think less that the years rob us, that because we
have lived a certain length of time we grow less useful or
forceful, and more of the fact that the years have given us
understanding. We must come to realize that every day
we live brings us this increased understanding, and being
one with all power we know we are made of the essence
of perfection and in this essence there is only change.
Our thoughts and our outlook on life are largely re-
sponsible in determining our degree of youthfulness. Since
this is true, we should cast from our minds all old ideas and
replace them with thoughts of Truth, which build into the
mind and the body the new life of vision and progress. Life
becomes in outer manifestation just what life appears to be
to the mental vision. If we are to retain youthfulness or to
regain it, we must think youthful thoughts; we must look
upon life with a youthful outlook, looking ever forward and
never backward. In a short time, that thought will have
built into the body a newness and freshness and all life
will have become new and young and joyous. Goethe said,
"We must be young to do great things." He meant that we
must have youth of spirit and of mind and purpose.
AFFIRMATION: The Eternal Spirit of Youth Is Mine.
91
HEALTH
92
And the Lord will take away from thee all sickness.
Deuteronomy 7:15
Cl /I/ E THINK of Lord as Law and we know that the
' VV impersonal law acts for us according to our own
ideas. When our thinking and feeling are based upon the
desire for wholeness, then we are healed. Although af-
firmations of health are essential, it is our consciousness of
their meaning that is the motivating power leading to
manifestation. Health is right action in thought, feeling
and expression. The perfect pattern of our body as created
in the mind of God ever remains the same so that whatever
the appearance may be, the body is always perfect in
spirit. With the law of God, all things are achieved, so
that as understanding of the truth flows through us, it
dissolves all inharmonies and health is established.
Although healing comes from God, we each have a
part in our own healing. The essential part of our being is
the Christ spirit dwelling within. We have experienced
how the word of faith has brought healing to ourselves
and to others; but we often marvel at the complete absolute
faith that we meet at times. In the case of the Centurion
who requested, "Speak the word only, and my servant
shall be healed,'' even Jesus marveled as He said to the
man, "As thou hast believed so be it done unto thee." Each
one may speak the word of healing from the Christ within
and the healing power will flow through and in us, and
out to those to whom we speak the word.
AFFIRMATION: I Speak The Word to Heal and Bless.
1JF.
'Ill
He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water .
and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.
~Psalms 1:3
PROSPERITY
94
And thou shalt have plenty of silver. Job 22:25
/lT IS ONLY by thinking thoughts of abundance that
..lJ we can establish prosperity and success in our lives.
In the same way thoughts of lack and failure manifest
themselves accordingly in lack and failure. Prosperity
carries with it a feeling of joy, for we know we have come
closer to the ideal state when we obtain prosperity. It is
strange that one can believe that lack and failure can pos-
sibly be a part of God's will for us. If our life is to be one
of success, belief in limitation must give way to ideas of
prosperity, and in this way belief in depression, failure and
poverty will be swept from our consciousness. Once the
mind becomes stayed on the reality of good, our conscious-
ness is quickened to the reality that separates us from
belief in the unreal, which is lack of all kinds.
When in need of material supply, we have only to turn
to God, Who is not only the source of all supply, but is the
supply itself. With our human intelligence we too often
limit the supply to a certain source. But there are many
channels through which our good can come, and each
channel springs from the storehouse of God's substance.
There can be no lack in our lives when we resolutely, and
in faith believing, trust to this unlimited, ever-present
God supply, which surrounds and enfolds us. Gratitude for
every blessing, however small it may seem, is a wonderful
magnet to draw more and greater blessings to us.
AFFIRMATION: Abundance Fills My Thinking.
PROSPERITY
... my God shall supply all your need. Philippians 4:19
<l /1 /E HAVE struggled so long in the belief that man
' VV must earn his good by the sweat of his brow,
that it is time we awaken to the fact that we have been
the victims of a false belief, that there is another way -
the God Way. God is abundance, but we do not objectify
this truth in our lives by merely stating it; we must under-
stand what it means. We must come into the conscious-
ness of plenty, but must not spend ahead of our realization.
The very fact that God is incarnated in us is proof that
where God is, lack and limitation cannot exist. Universal
Life in, through and around us abounds in riches and these
riches are ours in the degree to which we can use them.
As truth followers we know that nothing is impossible
with God. And as God is all, within and without, He is
everywhere present. When we accept and know this truth,
we realize our oneness with Him and with His love and
power. Unconsciously we have accepted the good that He
has given us. Now coming into true understanding, we
are able to accept the full measure of His gifts - health,
wisdom, peace and abundance. We drink and are filled,
for all these are ours through the Father's love. Knowing
our oneness with Him, we meet all our problems with
kindness and forbearance. Love carries us to the mountain
top of realization and we look out upon the world with
peace in our hearts.
AFFIRMATION: I Am One With All-Good.
95
PROSPERITY
96
In due season we shall reap, if we faint not. Galatians 6:9
f/HE QUALITY of patience is as necessary in seeking
"-f prosperity as are faith, trust and unceasing effort.
It is necessary that we keep in mind that we must create
our own good. Not even God is going to hand us something
without effort on our part. If you have enough faith and
are efficient in the use of your will, it is possible for you
to create anything you need at once. Most of us divide our
efforts giving only part of our forces to creative activities.
Like in anything else, practice makes perfect - so at first,
we are, perhaps, inefficient and we must supplement our
powers by a liberal use of patience.
Patience does not mean "contentment with a difficult
lot", but rather it means "tranquil expectation". Patience
does not mean taking life easy and accepting things as they
come, but it means sustained perseverance. Too often we
make a halfhearted attempt to create a thought picture of
our desires, and when we fail to achieve immediate results
we are disappointed, giving up the task. This is fatal.
Creative activity is work, it reqmres patience, attention to
detail, concentration and repetition, but the results are
worth the effort. In the shop you may be permitted to
quit work when the whistle blows or the bell rings, but not
so in the realm of the universe, for prosperity is only
achieved when we so impress our desires on our will that
they are our constant companion.
AFFIRMATION: With Patience, I Await My Good.
PROSPERITY
Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Joshua 1:8
(7-)ROSPERITY COMES to us through rich ideas. The
;_r Spirit of plenty sends forth these rich ideas into our
minds through which we are directed to our abundance.
Thinking the prosperity thought we are lifted to the higher
consciousness so that ideas of abundance reach us more
quickly. The prosperous draws success to himself because
of his consciousness of success; he refuses to allow ideas of
failure to find a place in his mind. If we would be prosper-
ous, we must guard our minds against beliefs in poverty
and failure; we must cast out the idea that there is virtue
in poverty, or that lack is a means of God's discipline.
In God there is all wealth. In that moment when we
drop out of our consciousness all limited or limiting ideas,
we automatically find ourselves contemplating wealth at
its source in pure Spirit. Man, being an emanation of Spirit,
at his center is the underlying Reality of all expression, so
we are already unified with infinite wealth, intermingled
with it, permeated by it, unable to escape it - a wealth,
not alone of material and worldly things, but spiritual
qualities of love, mercy, tolerance and justice. We differ-
entiate wealth according to our own ability to clear our
consciousness of all thought of lack and negation. Then we
see ourselves as we truly are, a child of God and, by virtue
of that blessed relationship, heir to all the wealth and
spiritual understanding inherent in Being.
AFFIRMATION: I Am Receiving My Every Need.
97
PROSPERITY
98
All that the Father giveth me shall come to me. John 6:37
<111 /E DO NOT have to make things happen; we do
' VV not have to create; we do not have to force pros-
perity. "Who by taking thought can add one cubit to his
stature?" This means that Substance already is, and that
the Law of Creation is already established. Our part in the
creative process is to form a mental concept and this we
are doing all the time. We are learning how to form the
sort of concept that will permit the creative law to so
arrange the Invisible Substance that we shall say we are
manifesting prosperity. The supply of whatever we may
need or desire is already in the invisible, awaiting only our
recognition and acceptance of it, our faith to know that it
is there and then our action in reaching out and taking it.
When Jesus said, "All things whatsoever the Father
hath are mine", He expressed the perfect realization of
prosperity that God is our ever available supply. This
invisible substance, God, out of which all things are
created, is all around us waiting only our word of faith to
come forth into manifestation. This substance is, itself, the
supply of every demand that we can make upon it, and
there is from the beginning provided a lavish abundance
for every want. Jesus understood this law of supply so
completely that He never lacked anything He needed. We,
too, can speak the word and bring forth abundance.
AFFIRMATION: God is the Source of All My Substance.
PROSPERITY
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above.
James 1:17
/1ACK OF EVERY condition of poverty is thought of
_L limitation. If we look into a mirror and see a
beautiful flower, we know that there must be a flower
held up to the mirror or we would not see the reflection of
a flower. In the same manner, if poverty is reflected in
our affairs, it is because we hold the thought picture of
poverty. We can reverse that picture of poverty and hold in
its place the picture of abundance and soon we will dis-
cover the picture of prosperity unfolding in our lives and
affairs. The subjective mind or the Creative Power reflects
back to us that which we think and believe, whether it be
the condition of abundant supply or the opposite lack.
It is just as easy to be a successful man or woman as it
is to be a failure when we have once grasped the truth that
our attitude of mind, our thoughts, make for either success
or failure. We must definitely choose to be a success in
whatever we do, claim success, expect success, and be suc-
cess. We may claim the intelligence that will lead us to do
things in the best possible way and with the best results.
We cannot be defeated for God knows nothing about defeat.
Let us blueprint our lives so that only successful projects
can present themselves to us, only successful ideas can
enter our minds. Then every step we take is definitely and
directly a step forward. The way ahead becomes clear
and all obstacles are removed from our path.
AFFIRMATION: I Am One With All Success.
99
PROSPERITY
100
All things are yours. I Corinthians 3:21
(/HE LAW of Cause and Effect is automatic and every
"-f experience and condition is born of it. Each one
being an expression of First Cause and having a conscious
knowledge of its existence, we must therefore inherently
possess the ability to make conscious use of the law. When
we have determined definitely what condition we desire
to "cause", we may know with a certainty that the effect
will appear in our lives. On all sides we see a bounteous
plenty in this universe. Our thoughts alone can open the
gates that control the stream of good that God ever seeks to
express through man.
With true understanding we know that the substance
of God is everywhere present, that He always has and
always will provide for His creation. Back of the lack that
many experience is the fact that they believe in lack rather
than in abundance. Yet all the teachings of Jesus must
lead us to accept and believe in bountiful supply; and,
when our faith is quickened that we no longer believe in
limitation, abundance is ours. Then we find our supply
will come into manifestation without delay or confusion.
We must learn to cultivate the habit of knowing that, as
children of God, we have access to His abundant supply.
When we have truly learned and believe in our spiritual
inheritance and accept it, there can be no lack in our
affairs and conditions.
AFFIRMATION: I Accept My Inheritance.
That your faith should not stand in the wisdom
of men, but in the power of God.
~ I Corinthians 2:5
THE POWER OF FAITH
102
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed
by the word of God. Hebrews 11:3
(I AITH REVEALS that whatever of good we desire
~ is not only for us, but has already started toward
us out of the heart of God. By His word has been formed
everything of good that the mind of man can desire. God
is always tapping at the door of our consciousness, urging
us to desire more of His good and more of Him. But we
must have the alertness of faith, which is creative activity.
We may know that our faith is of God when we feel be-
yond any doubt that by speaking the word for some bless-
ing we desire, the blessing is already ours. We may
know that our faith is of God and is God when we put our
complete trust in His protection, in His guidance and in His
supply. Then we can pray knowing that our prayer has
already been answered.
When we have true faith we no longer doubt God.
We are free from the unbelief that undermines faith and
are established in the faith that Christ is within us. As
our faith in God increases, we look forward to the perfect
realization when our faith in God shall be complete. We
then lay hold of the blessings of God that come as a reward
for absolute faith. Let us have this faith in God as our
light, peace, love and supply. Let no negative thought
cause us to waver, because our faith is established in God,
the All Good.
AFFIRMATION: My Entire Faith Is In and of God.
THE POWER OF FAITH
Who are kept by the power of God through faith.
I Peter 1:5
(I AITH IS confidence in that which we have never
'J seen. Paul said, "We are saved by hope; but hope
that is seen is not hope, for what a man seeth why doth
he yet hope for it?" The virtue of faith is that we choose
to believe when we might doubt, when all appearances
seem to indicate the opposite of that faith. It is because
our physical senses may cause us to doubt that we need to
exercise faith, for true faith must be the voluntary choice
in one's mind. There are times when the Presence of God
is so real that there is no room for doubt. There are other
times when we have to trust when we can neither see
nor feel. This is faith.
We are told that without faith we cannot please God.
The outstanding quality in the life and character of Daniel
was his faith in the power of God to meet all needs. There
was no doubt in his mind that God would do for him even
exceeding what he might ask. It was this supreme con-
fidence that gave Daniel the poise he exhibited through all
the tribulation and seeming disaster that beset him. It is
faith such as his that will enable us to smile at any failure
or tragedy, the faith that will inspire us to courage and
endurance when it would seem we must faint by the way.
We all desire happiness, but happiness alone cannot satisfy
the longings of the soul. Only unwavering faith in God
can do that.
AFFIRMATION: I Walk and Live By Faith.
103
THE POWER OF FAITH
104
Watch and pray. Matthew 26:41
'1111 E ARE TOLD that all things are accomplished by
' VV prayer. Watch means to keep guard over, and
to pray means to ask in faith believing. All of us know
by experience that faith applied through prayer to any
problem will change the condition and manifest the desire.
There is nothing too large or too small for the power of
Spirit to heal; we have the privilege to use this power
in every affair of our lives whether of seemingly little
significance or of importance. There is no problem in
Truth, for Truth knows only the reality, which is limitless
and perfect.
Prayer is twofold: First, an aspiration heavenward;
and, second, an inner conviction that the answer is on the
way. True prayer is a realization of our relation to the
thing we seek. Through prayer, we become conscious of
the reality and presence of God manifesting Himself as
a blessing for His children. Our prayer is answered to the
extent that we can behold the blessings that God has in
store for us. There is no limitation on God's part as to
what He will give us. We may limit ourselves in capacity
to receive; but, as we grow into understanding of how
to pray, we become more receptive to greater gifts. In our
aspiration Godward, we form a union with the good for
which we pray because our faith is fixed upon God and the
good is found in Him.
AFFIRMATION: My Way Is Made Clear Through Prayer.
THE POWER OF FAITH
Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me.
Exodus 32:26
fl LTHOUGH TODAY we may be living in uncon-
c::::77' genial surroundings and doing disagreeable tasks,
we do not need to continue in that way of life. Through
spiritual treatment, any case of inharmony of work or
environment can be taken care of in a quiet but sure
manner. In our present condition we may affirm daily the
truth that our perfect condition is now manifest; then turn
the problem over to God and the law will work out the
answer in the way for the good of all. We must keep the
truth clearly with us that God desires only success and
happiness for all and that He has given freely of this good.
In return, we share of our good with others and speak the
truth that they, too, are the children of the Father.
What we term "treatment" is a conscious and in-
telligent effort to put ourselves in tune with the infinite
law of reality. Knowing that in the Mind of God all of
His creation is harmonious and perfect, we see through the
seeming imperfect and unreal to the perfect and real. We
know that our thought is creative, but we know also that
to make our thought active and powerful it must be filled
with faith and conviction. When we speak the word with
an inner assurance that it goes forth to accomplish that for
which it is sent, it becomes objectified as perfect harmony
and completeness.
AFFIRMATION: Regardless of Appearances, I See Com-
pletion Only.
105
THE POWER OF FAITH
106
In the Lord put I my trust. Psalms 11:1
<1 11 / E ALL NEED this declaration of faith and never
' VJ.I more so than in these days of confusion. Vie
cannot run away from our problems, for no problem is
ever solved by refusing to face it. It takes no great effort
to have faith when all is running smoothly. The real test
of faith comes when sorrow, want, ill health and danger
seem to be upon every side. It is then that we must hold
more strongly to our belief in the Father's ever-loving
protection to transcend all threats of danger, evil or
disaster. Vie must know, not hope or even simply believe,
that "he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor
sleep" and that the same watchful power is over and
around us.
Vie not only walk by faith, but we live by faith. Vlith-
out faith we could not have the courage to go on living in
face of adversities and trials that beset us. But there is an
aspect of faith we must remember - that any fear we have
has become a part of our being only because of faith in that
which we fear. Let us discipline our minds to have faith
only in the good. Faith is the essential ingredient of prog-
ress. Vie have the necessary ingredients for the accom-
plishment of our desires, for from God we have the wisdom
and power; yet without faith we will have no action. Vlhen
we find faith in God's power, we will find power within
ourselves.
AFFIRMATION: I Trust Serenely in the Love of the
Father.
THE POWER OF FAITH
A great door and effectual is opened unto me.
I Corinthians 16:9
C ACH OF US has felt at some time that we came to a
C closed door in life that kept us from entering into
the fullness of living we desire. Yet the only closed door
between us and our good is our lack of faith. Through
Truth we open the door by keeping our thoughts and words
constructive; then we find the door that had seemed closed
will open and let in all the abundance of good. It may be
that the door will open to the positive words, "I have faith
in my God-given ability." Whatever the door that seems to
shut us off from our desires, it need not remain closed.
Each of us has the power to open it, and that power is the
realization that we are one with God and His power.
By prayer and meditation we become attuned to the
power and love of God, we put aside that which does not
allow the free flow of the Power of God through us, be-
cause we establish perfect faith that knows God always
hears the voice of His children. We find the radiance and
wholeness of Spirit that will always bring to pass that for
which we pray when unhampered by thoughts of personal
weakness. It is only when we cut ourselves off through
lack of faith that we experience moments of separateness.
When we recognize our complete unity with the Father, in
quiet confidence we come to say, as did Jesus, "Father,
I thank thee that thou hast heard me."
AFFIRMATION: Through Faith the Door of Good Is
Opened.
107
THE POWER OF FAITH
108
My soul, wait thou only upon God. Psalms 62:5
(/HE MEASURE of good that comes to us is found in
~ the degree of our faith and expectancy. Jesus had
in mind this spiritual law when He said, "According to
your faith be it unto you." If we expect little we receive
little, but for those who expect all good things from God
the "windows of heaven" open to them in the fullest bless-
ings. What are the sources of our expectation? If we trust
in our own resources, our expectations are from our own
efforts and perhaps from the help of our friends Although
the Psalmist placed all his expectations in God, he did not
expect less of himself but placed his greatest expectation in
God. Looking to God in faith and confidence is the secret
of a full and abundant life.
God never fails us when we put our entire faith and
trust in Him. We many times pray for things believing
that they will be received, only to be disappointed in the
specific way in which we had outlined. When we leave the
specific manner to God's love and wisdom, we find that a
greater good is being unfolded to us through the disappear-
ance from our mind of a false concept. We cannot expect
good if our faith is wavering and uncertain; but when we
go our way joyously, expecting good in all our affairs, that
full measure of good will not fail to reach us. It is only
when we put our entire trust in Him, letting go of our own
personal will to dictate, that good becomes manifest.
AFFIRMATION: I Put My Entire Trust in God.
I am come that they might haue life,
and that they might haue it more abundantly.
- fohn 10:10
ABUNDANT LIFE
110
But my God shalL supply all your need. Philippians 4:19
f/HERE IS something inherent in man that cannot be
---' expressed by limitation. That is the cause back of
our rebellion at a lack of prosperity and success. Uncon-
sciously or unknowingly, we have used the creative power
to express limitation and have reaped the fruits of our
own limiting thought. The fault is with ourselves. and can
be changed only by ourselves, through changing from pov-
erty thoughts to thoughts of abundance. Infinite supply
awaits our command, ready to respond to the Creative
Power of our own minds - and thought alone is the lever
to release that power toward abundant life and a fuller
manifestation of God's desire for man.
The conditions that surround our lives are made by the
thoughts we think and the words we speak. There is no
lack so great, no disease so hopeless that it cannot be met
with right understanding. Our expression of supply is al-
ways measured by our understanding of God and the truth
of our being. There can be no lack of supply, for God Him-
self is infinite Supply, boundless Wealth. All activity in the
universe is the activity of Wealth. It is an infinite principle
that governs everything in the world. Truth leads us out
of lack of supply into the expression of the more abundant
life. Understanding is the first vital step toward the mani-
festation of supply.
AFFIRMATION: I Accept the Abundance That Is Mine.
ABUNDANT LIFE
If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days
in prosperity. Job 36:11
!JN TRUTH we know that the universe is planned for
abundance and that each man is entitled to his share
in these riches. Lack of sufficient supply to meet our needs
indicates a lack of spiritual understanding. When our minds
are trained in Truth, we provide the channels necessary for
supply to flow to us. When we understand that in truth we
are spiritual beings living in a spiritual universe, supply
flows to us freely and naturally. When Jesus said, "First
the blade, and then the ear, and then the full corn on
the ear," He was showing us that we have to provide a
mental atmosphere of harmony for right ideas to grow.
In this way we create the channels for God's abundance.
It is impossible for man to be separated from the spirit
of abundance, for it impossible for him to be separated
from God who is all supply. The success that each one gen-
erates through operation of the universal law is subject
only to his ability to understand and to believe that "all
that the Father hath is mine." The measure of good that
each one receives is meted out to him by himself. Let us
now consciously claim that God is the spirit and the sub-
stance of all our affairs. Let us affirm daily that what is
now working out in all our affairs is only good, and that
spirit of abundance is active in and through us to express
the fullness and the love of the Father.
AFFIRMATION: All Channels Are Open to Receive
God's Good.
111
ABUNDANT LIFE
112
Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Isaiah 41:10
<WITH ALL THE promises of the Father, it seems
strange that we should fear the lack of any
good. All about us we see the power of God and must
understand that His Universal Law applies alike to the
smallest and the greatest of His creation. This Power is
ours to use here and now. Let us be alert at all times to
feel the flow of love throughout our bodies and affairs.
However, we must consciously link ourselves with this
power and its unlimited possibilities. Each day we can live
in union with its boundless resources that are ever present.
We realize through true understanding that God is not only
the Creator of the Universe, but the entire order of crea-
tion is dependent upon His will. So why should we fear?
We should know that there is enough of God's abun-
dance to fill our entire life to overflowing. Our bodies are
right now being renewed and strengthened with His life
and health, just as our minds are illumined and inspired
each moment with His intelligence and power. There is the
perfect solution to every problem in our lives, but we must
believe this and we will then find these difficulties changed
into stepping stones to higher growth. God knows every
need of our life even before we ourselves are aware of
them. We can trustingly place ourselves in His care to
guide us to that which we need to make life happy and
complete.
AFFIRMATION: God Supplies Our Every Need.
ABUNDANT LIFE
Now ye are all full, now ye are rich. I Corinthians 4:8
(111 /HEN WE RISE above belief in lack and put from
' VV mind all thought of failure, we lay hold of the
rich ideas of Divine Mind, and become identified with the
bountiful prosperity of Spirit. Spirit then points out to us
the channel through which prosperity is to come. The
mind is opened to ways and means by which we discern
success in our undertakings. Our position in the world of
affairs is but a counterpart of our place in the great uni-
versal plan of Spirit. Success is but a token of our ability
to perform well the work that Spirit has assigned to us. We
then do not consider our work as judged by the standard of
the world. We know that our work is important and a step-
ping stone to something higher. As we live close to Spirit,
we draw near to its riches, prosperity and success.
Our life rests in the very life of Spirit and, from that
center, life radiates to every part of our being. This life
is sufficient for every demand made upon it, and makes
us thoroughly alive. Spirit is inseparably connected with
each one at all times and is the source of our very exist-
ence. When the mind is cleared of all belief in the limita-
tion of life, it will be ready to accept the truth about life
inexhaustible, life eternal, life complete in God. We then
see life in a different light and enjoy true living. We find
that Spirit is all sufficient and that its life fills us with
completion.
AFFIRMATION: The Life of Spirit Is Health and
Harmony.
113
ABUNDANT LIFE
114
Keep therefore the words of this covenant.
Deuteronomy 29:9
(l ;J / E FIND MANY around us who think and speak
' VV of hard times, lack of money, and failure. Their
thought and word show that they have not given up a
belief limiting God's supply, so prosperity is limited. With
the understanding of Truth, there is no place for belief in
lack of any good thing. We understand that God, not lack,
is present in all our affairs. Prosperity, not limitation, is
our natural heritage from God.
Man was not created to live in a world of poverty. The
goodness of God is displayed in His having given man the
key to His storehouse and having shown man the way to
plenty. We discover our supply by means of ideas. We are
impressed with rich ideas that serve to reveal our supply
to us. In the consciousness of plenty, we find plenty re-
vealed to us. We identify it as our own, as our abundance
bestowed upon us by the Father. To have plenty, we must
erase from mind the belief in lack, for the thought of lack
attracts lack to us. The consciousness of plenty causes
plenty to appear to us. We build up a consciousness of
plenty through filling the mind with thoughts of abun-
dance. Then we become more aware of the blessings of
God than we are of lack. As we accept God as the source of
our prosperity, we find rich ideas emanating from Him,
filling the mind and manifesting as plenty.
AFFIRMATION: God Is the Source of My Supply.
ABUNDANT LIFE
Give us this day our daily bread. Matthew 6:11
fl /1 /ITH TRUE understanding we know that the sub-:
' VV stance of God is everywhere present; that He
always has and always will provide for His creation. All
the teachings of Jesus lead us to accept and believe in
bountiful supply, and when our faith is quickened so that
we no longer believe in limitation, abundance is ours. Then
we find our supply will come into manifestation without
delay or confusion. We must strengthen our knowledge
that, as children of God, we have access to His abundant
supply. We must strengthen our faith and confidence in
God as our constant source of good. When we have truly
learned and believe in our spiritual inheritance and accept
it, there can be no lack in our affairs and conditions.
We are Heirs of God, jointly sharing with Christ all
of the Divine wealth. How can we feel poor or that we lack
anything we need when, as Children of God, we belong
to the household of wealth? God never disinherits His
children. Lack and poverty are the lot of all who seek life
in strange places away from the Heavenly influence, but
such an experience does not mean that our part is not
available if we are willing to return for it. Perhaps God's
laws seem to limit your activity, but be assured Divine Law
was never a whim of a selfish Creator. As a child of God,
live in harmony with His law and know the joy of abun-
dance.
AFFIRMATION: As A Child of God, I Know the Joy
of Abundance.
115
ABUNDANT LIFE
116
.. . so in Christ shall all be made alive. I Corinthians 15:22
(""'INCE GOD is the only Creator, it is to Him that we
C) must look for our increase of supply. It is not to
our position alone that we should look for abundance; work
is but an outlet for our energy, our intellect. It is only as we
become alive in Christ that we become alive to life and the
joy that is ours. Our need is to become more alive to the
presence of the spirit within, which gives of itself to us and
through us always. In so doing we raise our consciousness
from the purely material to contact the power of the infi-
nite, and learn to use this power as pur own to grow into
greater attainment. 
We have been given the power to take possession of
the abundance that exists in the realm of spirit, for this
abundance, which is spirit substance, is present at all times.
But before we manifest this abundance, we must have the
faith that the Father's will for us is plenty for our every
good, instead of the poverty we may have come to believe
is His will. When we have this faith, we can speak the
word of plenty, we can affirm as a reality that we are His
children and that His supply is ever at hand for us. Let us
say with confidence, "I have faith that the unlimited sub-
stance of the Father is now made manifest in all the affairs
of my life." Then we will find that, according to that faith
we manifest, the good comes unto us.
AFFIRMATION: Spirit Abundance Is Manifest for All.
... whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him,
because we keep His commandments and
do those things that are pleasing in His
sight. I John 3:22
f/HROUGHOUT your meditations, we have repeatedly
"-1 stressed the importance of faith. It has been so
because Faith is the most important influence in our lives.
It matters not how worthy an endeavor may be; if there
is no faith in its accomplishment, its possibility of accom-
plishment is nullified. It is the guiding hand in every
activity of life, whether it be government, business, or in
your personal life.
Faith is belief stripped of all doubt. It is the kind of
belief - complete faith - we must have in the Father and
Son if we are to attain the spiritual stature that brings us
into complete harmony with God's Kingdom. It is the kind
of faith we must have in ourselves if we are to make the
best of our talents. We must have it in our neighbor if we
are to experience the joy of peace and love.
On every hand there is an abundance from which you
can draw faith-building substance into your life - the
beauty and fecundity of nature, the reflection of His love
in those who know the beauty of His love, an act of kind-
ness and at once the swelling of God's love in your heart.
On every hand and in every moment of life we can find
the Truth that will keep our faith firm and our hearts
castles worthy of God's Kingdom.
We have sincerely tried to so present these meditations
that faith will be firmly fixed in your mind and its demon-
strations will be a more natural part of your daily life.
117
