{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1965__christian_astley___iamblichus_egyptian_initiation.pdf","mytitle":"Iamblichus Egyptian Initiation","mylang":"de"}
...
- ~­
'if·, "I"
.-~ ....-
j ..
....
AN
EGYPTIAN
INITIATIO
By Iarnblichus
A THE COVER DESIGN
The Sphinx has stood for centuries in majestic defiance
of all the destructive forces of time and the mind of man to
solve its mysteries. It is built of living stones.
It symbolizes the esoteric thought of ancient Egypt, that
the universe and all it contains is pulsating with eternal
life whose source is a central spiritual sun of infinite,
unconditioned wisdom containing all that is or will be. That
all are but parts of one stupendous whole whose body Nature
is and God the soul. That each atom of eternal life involves
from spirit to dense matter, then evolves upward through
vegetable, animal and human to its spiritual source. That
each human being is a miniture universe which its lord or
immortal ego must learn to control before becoming an initiate.
The neophite struggling for initiation into the mysteries
of eternal life is shown in the pyramid (dense matter), facing
east, imploring the Goddess of Love and the rising Sun to
shed their intellectual light upon him so he will have the
spiritual right to say, I KNOW.
C 0 N T E N T S
PAGE
SYMBOLISM OF COVER EXPLAINED
INTRODUCTION by H. 0. Wagner - - - - - - - - - - - I-V
PREFACE by E. L. BLOOM - - - - - - - - - VI-X
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT and DEDICATION - - - - - - XI
SYMBOLISM of the SPHINX - - - - - - - - - 1
THE HIEROPHANT INSTRUCTS the INITIATE - - - - - - - - 2-3
PLATO and PYTHAGORUS WERE INITIATES - - - - - 3
PLACE OF INITIATION: THE SPHINX and GREAT PYRAMID 4
THE INITIATION BEGINS - - - - - - - - - 5
COSTUME of the GUARDIANS - - - - - - - - - - - - - 6
INITIATION (continued) - - - - - - - - ~ 7-11
THE INITIATE RECEIVES FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS - - - - - - 12
THE TAROT (Similarity of the TARO cards to
the ordinary playing cards of today)- - - - 13-14
ARCANUM I - THE ABSOLUTE BEING - - - - - - - - - -
ARCANUM II - CONSCIOUSNESS of the ABSOLUTE BEING
ARCANUM III - SUPREME POWER BALANCED
ARCANUM
14-16
- 16-18
18-19
by INTELLIGENCE and WISDOM - -
IV - REALIZATION of VIRTUALIT!ES and
EFFACIES of the ABSOLUTE BEING - - - - - 19-20
ARCANUM V - UNIVERSAL LAW-THE REGULATOR - - - - - 20-22
ARCANUM VI - GOOD and EVIL - - - - - - - -
ARCANUM VII - DOMINATION of SPIRIT OVER MATTER -
ARCANUM VIII - JUSTICE
ARCANUM IX - ABSOLUTE WISDOM - - - - - - -
ARCANUM X - PRINCIPLE of LIFE - - - - - -
ARCANUM XI - PRINCIPLE of FORCE (Spiritual and
Physical)
ARCANUM XII - REVEALED LAW--DUTY and SACRIFICE
ARCANUM XIII- PERPETUAL MOVEMENT of CREATION,
- 22-23
- 23-24
- 25-26
- - 26
- 26-27
- 27-28
28-29
DESTRUCTION and RENEWAL - - - - - - - - 29-30
ARCANUM XIV - PERPETUAL MOVEMENT of LIFE,
MORAL LIFE, FORCES of NATURE - - - - - - 30-31
ARCANUM XV - PREDESTINATION, MYSTERY, FATALITY - 30-31
ARCANUM XVI - CHASTIZEMENT of PRIDE - - - - - - - - - 31
ARCANUM XVII- IMMORTALITY, SPIRITUAL LIGHT, HOPE - 32
ARCANUM XVIII-THE INFINITE, RULE of the INSTINCTS,
DECEPTIONS and ENEMIES - - - - - - - 33
ARCANUM XIX - SUPREME HEAVEN, SACRED TRUTH, HAPPINESS- 33-34
ARCANUM XX - FROM EARTHLY LIFE to FUTURE LIFE - - - - 34
ARCANUM XXI - HIGHEST DEGREE of INITIATION
EMPIRE OF LIGHT, SANCTIFIED - - - - 35
C 0 N T E N T S
PAGE
ARC~NUM XXII - PUNISHMENT FOLLOWS ALL SIN - - - - 36
THE TWENTY-TWO ARCANA ARE SUMMARIZED - - - - - - - 36-38
THE SYNTHESIS of MAGIC - - 38-39
INITIATION (continued) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 40-45
THE HOROSCOPE - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 46
SUPREME TRIAL by the HOROSCOPE - - - - - - - - 47
INITIATION (continued) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 48
THE INITIATE IS WARNED - - - - - - - - - - - - 48-49
THE OATH 49
THE INITIATE IS WARNED AGAIN - - - - - - - - - - - - - 50
INITIATION (continued) - - - - - - - - - - - - 50
THE TRIAL by POISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 51
PENALTIES for FAILURE to PASS TESTS - - - - - 52-53
INITIATION (continued) - - - - - - - - - - - - 53
INSTRUCTIONS to the INITIATE - - - - - - - - - - - 54-56
PUNISHMENT for PERJURERS - - - - - - - - - 57
PLATO LIVED FOR 13 YEARS with the MAGII in MEMPHIS - - 57
MOSES WAS AN INITIATE - - - - - - - - - - 58
TRAINING of the SONS of the MAGII - - - - - - 58
THE NINE GRADES of the MAGII - - - - - - - - - 59
SPIRITUAL POWER GROWS BECAUSE HIDDEN - - - - - - - 60
FUTURE EDITIONS OF THIS INITIATION MIGHT BE
ILLUSTRATED WITH COLORED PICTURES OF ARCANA - - 61
A PSYCHIC OCCURANCE, A DREAM, OR A REVELATION? - - 62-63
CONCLUDING PRAYER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 64
@. EGYP'il'IAN INITIATION
By
IAMBLICHUS
A Neo-Platonist of the 4th. Century
Translated from the original MSS
By
P. CHRISTIAN
Translated from the French MSS
By
GENEVIEVE STEBBINS ASTLEY
1901 .
Published by
EDWARD LEON BLOOM
940 ONEIDA STREET
DENVER, COLORADO
80220
1965
$5.00 (Postage prepaid}
Copyright 1965
All Rights Reserved, Including the Right to Reproduce
This Book or Portions Thereof in Any Form
A remarkable document and it cannot be
found in the regular public libraries.
AN EGYPTIAN INITIATION
Introduction
Iamblichus, founder of the Syrian school of Nee-Platonism
was born A.D. 250 at Chalcis in Coele-Syria and died A.D. 330,
during the reign of Constantine the Great, emperor of Rome.
It is said that he came from a noble family and studied
under the Neo-Platonic philosopher Porphyry in Alexandria,
Egypt. Few of his many works have come down to ~s.
Five genuine works by Iamblichus, parts of a treatise on
Pythagoreanism, are extant. From these works, his teachings
by Proclus, fragments preserved by Stobaeus, and from the
theurgic treatise on the Egyptian Mysteries, a good idea of
his philosophy may be obtained.
The Egyptian Initiation is a dramatization of human life
as experienced by each person as they journey along the path
to the eternal hereafter. Each person enters this life
entirely ignorant of what lies ahead but having implicit
FAITH that they are welcome, so accept the decisions of
their parents as divine law.
After childhood, when we start life for ourselves, each
one is required to continually decide what path to follow to
obtain the desires he is striving to accomplish. In this
position we are ignorant of the future, never-the-less each
decision we make determines the lessons and experiences we
will encounter in life as we grow older.
Page II
We are obliged to learn that Divine Law is inflexible, and
once having _
decided on a plan of action, we must accept what
comes. Impli,cit faith in a better future urges us onward to
complete our qestipy, as F A 1 T tl is the true compass of the
soul. It keeps our ship of life on the right course.
The Egyptian Initiation was a gradual training of the whole
human being to the lofty heights of the spirit. When this was
attained a man became an initiate. But he could not be forced
into this attainment because the training required must be of
his own 'free will and accord'. And he must learn, understand
and know.
Excerpt from "HERMES AND PLATO"
by Edouard Schure
Page 25
If the stranger persisted in his determination, the
hierophant took him into the outer court and gave him up to
the servants of the temple, with whom he spent a week, engaged
in the humblest of tasks, listening to hymns, and performing
ablutions. The most rigorous silence was imposed on him.
Page 38
We cannot make an adept of thee, thou must become one
thyself. Long does the lotus press upwards beneath the
surface of the stream, before spreading out its petals to the
light. Hasten not the unfolding of the Divine flower. If it
is to come, it will come in its due season. Work and ~!
Page III
Truth is not given; it is found in oneself or not found at
all.
End of quote
And so you yourself. must do the necessary work. ONLY HE
WHO RULES HIMSELF IS ENTITLED TO RULE OTHERS! So mote it be
and so must it always be.
Many ages before Abraham and his herdsmen wandered over
the desert of Arabia, mystical learning from the magical
schools of the lost Atlantis was carried by tidal migration
eastward toward the rising sun and transplanted in the valley
of the Nile. And there it flourished for ages under the
fostering care of a mighty priesthood and a colossal
sacerdotal ism.
It was here that Hermes, the first initiator of Egypt,
held sway as the mightiest hierophant the world has ever
known. His Greek disciples called him Hermes Trismegistus,
or Thrice-Greatest, because he was looked upon as king,
lawgiver, and priest.
About the year B.C. 2,200 Egypt underwent the formidable
crisis of foreign invasion and semi-conquest caused by the
great religious schism in Asia which stirred up the masses by
sowing dissension in the temples. Led by king-shepherds,
called Hyksos, the deluge rolled over the delta and Central
Egypt followed by a corrupted civilization, Ionic effeminacy,
Page IV
Asiatic luxury, harems and gross idolatry.
Outwardly the priesthood bowed before the invasion and
accepted the law of the Bull and the worship of Apis. But,
within the temples, they concealed and guarded their sacred
science and undefiled religion. Legends of misfortune to Isis,
Osiris and their son Horus were spread among the people to
keep alive their love of the old religion. But in the depths
of their temples they covered the esoteric truths of the
Mysteries with a triple veil and withheld all from those who
were not able to prove their right to receive.
In this way the Mysteries saved the soul of Egypt from
foreign tyranny and became the school of future religions for
the good of humanity. At the same time, the rigid require-
ments sealed the lips of all the ancient sages who were
initiated, thus they were compelled, under oath and penalty
of death, to teach in fable and parable only. In sealing
their lips they were following the wise admonition of the
Master HERMES: "THE LIPS ARE CLOSED EXCEPT TO THE EARS OF
UNDERSTANDING."
The initiation as recorded by Iamblichus is thought to have
been in use in the times of the Rameses, about the time when
Moses and Orpheus were living,-the year B.C. 1,500.
The ancients considered any builder a mason. They could
see little difference between building a human character
Page V
(THE SPIRITUAL) , building a castle in the air (THE
INTELLECTUAL) , or building a structure of stone (THE
MATERIAL).
The 'stone• that was lost during the building of the
temple was intuition, because there was no material evidence
of its existence. And the temple of our soul (our true
character) is never complete.
H.O.Wagner*
P.O.Box 20333 Montclair Station
Denver, Colorado 80220
*Publisher of "THE LIGHT OF EGYPT" (in two volumes)
by Thomas H. Burgoyne. (Enlarged and reprinted in 1964)
AN EGYPTIAN INITIATION
Preface
Page VI
The similarity of initiation between the first three
degrees of Free and Accepted Masonry and this ancient
Egyptian initiation is indeed remarkable if you consider the
vicissitudes inherent in the passage of time and the very
natural desire of men to inject their own personal ideas into
Mystical or even all procedures.
Although Masonry is associated with the building of King
Solomon's temple let us remember that this temple is but a
symbol of the GRAND UNIVERSE. And G 0 D is its GREAT
ARCHITECT.
Now as Hermes Trismegistus passed on the teachings of the
Atlanteans to the Egyptian priests some variation permeated
into the original pure teachings.
Simply because these teachings ARE universal certain parts
would be emphasized by one priest, other parts by another
priest,- and each according to the individual bias or interest
of the priest. Thus the quality of these teachings became
diluted and their authority weakened.
To use the conciseness of Hermes I would say: 'As it was in
the past so it is now.' History repeats itself in ever upward
evoluting cycles. And so we find a similar condition of
weakness in the many Protestant sects, the fuzzy mystical
Page VII
sects and offshoots into the wild blue yonder. In India too
we find some 400 tangents of the moral teachings of Krishna
and The Budda. Some of GO D's GOODNESS can be found in them
all if ye but seek for it.
Let us return to ancient Egypt.--As a result of the various
interpretations and emotional bias of the Egyptian priests the
masses became confused. Some followed the interpretation of
one priest, others of another priest. And the fables and
myths surely added fuel to the poor peoples confusion. The
power of the original simple teachings was weakened by
emotionalism and division. There was a god for this and a
god for that. I imagine there would have been a god for
brushing your teeth if they had had toothbrushes in those
ancient times.
Now in order to bring some semblance of order into this
confused chaotic condition, a vote was held by the people as
to which priest they would accept and follow. But this public
acceptance depended upon the personal popularity of the
priest, and this popularity hinged solely upon the size of
the audience he could command.
The upshot of it all was that the people decided to retain
only those priests who made the strongest appeal to their
emotions. Now truly this was most unfortunate,-I might even
say it was DISASTEROUS.
Page VIII
Those priests who courageously stuck to the attitude of
not casting their pearls before swine, (that is the occult
teachings of Hermes)--were ostracized! And so alas and alac
the strong thread of truth and wisdom was frayed out into any
and all methods which would bring material wealth and civic
power to the priesthood.
They sought public favour and in doing so they tried to
make G O D a servant of their corrupt morality. G O D is the
MASTER! Let us ever remember and NEVER FORGET THIS TRUTH!
Slowly, and sorrowfully for us humans,-the ancient
religion of the Science of the Soul and the Stars lost its
pristine original power by becoming enmeshed in a gross lust
for personal priesthood power, for material wealth,-and for
idol worship. But G o D is not. idle, nor should HE ever be
cast into an inert idol of brass.
THERE IS A GREAT AWAKENING GOING ON IN THIS WORLD TODAY!
G O D is working diligently through individuals and groups to
return us to HIS G 0 D--HOOD.
Increasingly business is sharing,-more and more with the
public and with its employees. Gradually the nations are
sharing with one another. And as this sharing continues to
accelerate then LOVE will permeate the attitudes of nations
to nations. Oh G 0 D speed the day when the millenium rushes
Page IX
in and each nation obey the third commandment: NATIONS
LOVE YE ONE ANOTHER!
But all this prostitution of the ancient Egyptian religion
was in evil violation of the simple teachings of Hermes
Trismegistus which are contained in "THE LIGHT OF EGYPT". And
incidentally your library has a copy of this monumental work.
Although the thread frayed out it was never quite
•
completely broken. Despite the efforts of the Roman Catholic
church and the recent blood baths of tyrants it is most
refreshing and indeed INSPIRING to know that the Masons of
yore and of today labor busily to rewind the thread of truth.
We remain steadfast to our beliefs:-to our hope for a BETTER
world and Masons obey the admonition of Hermes, the Thrice
Greatest: "The lips are closed except to the ears of
understanding." And so mote it be, my dear brethern, in
Ancient Free and Accepted Masonry.
The Egyptian Initiation is really a remarkable document.
As you read it you will find that FAITH in G O D, FAITH in
ourselves, and FAITH in others is the clear and well marked
path we must follow if you wish your Soul to progress.
So now, dear brethern,-take the time RIGHT NOW to check
out "THE LIGHT OF EGYPT". There you will find the original
and undiluted teachings of our ancient brethern who walked,
talked, loved and lived on this earth many, many years ago.
Page X
It is quite appropriate that I now close this preface with
a prayer:
SUPREME ARCHITECT OF THE UNIVERSE give us nothing
but the will to know more of THY ways, and to
become more and more like THEE. Cause us to be
tender and gentle with those in our care. And
loving G o D ever, forever strike from our emotions,
our minds and our souls cruelty, impatience,
vindictiveness and grossness of desires. Then
we can better understand the righteousness of
THY reign over and WITHIN us. As we know THEE
outside of ourselves, so may we know THEE
within. And it is this INWARDNESS that REALLY
MATTERS. Amen--Ah-MEN we love THEE!
Edward Leon Bloom
940 Oneida Street
Denver, Colorado 80220
32nd Scottish Rite
and El Jebel Shrine
P.s. (This P.s. applies to Masons ONLY)
The "LIGHT OF EGYPT" by Thomas H. Burgoyne may be pur-
chased through me. If you read it first and then decide
to buy it one half of the price will be sent to the
Headquarters of Shrinedom, Detroit, Michigan. An
acknowledgement of your donation will be sent to you.
$7.75, postage prepaid, for both volumes.
Page XI
The crippled or severely burned child you help might
be your own. Thank you, dear prother. May your pursuit
of happiness be successful!
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Acknowledgement and deep appreciation is expressed to
Mr. H.O.Wagner. Brother Wagner FURNISHED THE MANUSCRIPT AND
SPONSORED THIS WORK. With typical attention to de~ails,
proof reading, constructive criticism and sage advice; he
helped me. And now he becomes instrumental in aiding the
great cause of Masonry. He is my best friend! He is NOBLE
in his heart, although he is neither a Mason nor a noble of
the Mystic Shrine.
DEDICATION
This small booklet is dedicated to all men who aspire to
become members of the Universal Order of FREE and ACCEPTED
MASONS, to all authors who strive to elevate the con-
sciousness of mankind, and to Mr. Jack Young, a fine medium.
Page 1
AN EGYPTIAN INITIATION
The Sphinx is a composite symbol. It has the head of a
woman, (excavations have shown the Sphinx to have a man's
head) the body of a bull, the paws of a lion and the wings
of an eagle. The human head personifies human intelligence,
which before entering by action into the arena of the future,
should study the aim of its aspirations, the means of
attaining them, the obstacles to avoid and the chasms to
leap. He should Know!
The body of the bull signifies that man, armed with science
should, under the spur of an indefatigable Will and under
the yoke of an unshaken patience dig step by step the road
which leads to success or failure. He should Will!
The paws of the lion signify that in order to attain the
aim desired by the intelligence it is not sufficient to Will--
you must also dare. You must not only work, but sometimes
fight and take the Kingdom of Heaven by storm. He should
'Dare!
The wings of the eagle, folded close to the powerful body
of the Sphinx, signifies that your designs must be enveloped
in a thick veil until the moment of action with a resolution
that lands them, perhaps, upon the heights of audacity.
He should be Silent!
The Hierophant says to the initiate, "Know how to see
Page 2
justly and Will justly. Know how to dare all that your
conscience permits. Know how to be silent about your
designs, and if the morrow be but a continuation of the
efforts of today, still on, still 2.Q, STILL ON TO YOUR AIM!
The seven Genii of the Rosy-Cross, guardians of the
sacred key which closes the past and opens the future, will
place upon thy forehead the crown of the MASTERS of TIME.
Thus the Sphinx was neither an idol nor a monster. It
was the symbol of the incalculable force which the human Will
could wield when directed by the highest intelligence. It is
the Alpha and Omega, the first and last word of high
initiation. Initiation (majesty of Science) , was not given
indifferently to even the members of the Egyptian Priest-hood.
There was in the interior of the sacred colleges a
hierarchy of functions, a scale of scientific grades, to each
of which was attached a task,-a trial. Each trial gave the
measure of the degree of intelligence and of moral force to
which the initiate had attained. He who failed in one of the
trials never had another chance.
If it was the son of a Magus, he rested at the place he
could not pass. They conferred upon him, in the Temple,
some duty in accord with his natural faculties, but all
access to superior dignities was, for him, forever closed.
If the recipient was a stranger, he had first of all to submit
Page 3
to a rigorous inquiry into his antecedents. If the result
of this inquiry was favourable to him, the united college
authorized or refused, by a secret vote, his admission to
the trials. In case of admission the first trial was
terrible enough to make him recoil if his soul was not
finely tempered.
He was then at liberty to retire; but if the trial was
passed, if the first symbols of occult science were uncovered
I
I
and explained and he then failed in one of the ensuing trials,
a redoubtable and inflexible law condemned him to perish in
the mysterious enclosure. He never again saw the light of day.
The Greek philosophers Thales, Pythagorus, and Eudoxus
were the most celebrated strangers who successfully passed
the phases of initiation. Pythagorus had for a master, the
arch-prophet Sonchis. Plato, from the testimony of Proclus,
was taught for thirteen years by the magii; Patheneitt,
Ochoaps, Sechtnouphis, Etymon and de Sebennithis.
Thus the famous doctrines which have been preserved under
the name "Platonism", and which have exercised such a great
influence upon the philosophical developement of Christian
ideas,-came out of the sanctuary of Memphis, the city of
Menes and from Heliopolis, the city of the Sun.
Iamblichus, of Chalcis in Coele-Syria, who lived in the
first half of the fourth century of our era, has left us a
Page 4
treatise on the Egyptian Mysteries, in which are related
the principle scenes of the trials of the initiation.
(Note 1. IAMBLIXOY--Iamblichi De Mysteries
AEgyptiorum. in fol. Oxonii 1678)
The Sphinx of Gizeh, says the author of the treatise on
the Mysteries, served as the entrance to the sacred sub-
terranean vaults where one essayed the trials of initiation.
This entrance was between the forward limbs. It was closed
by a bronze door of which the spring was known only to the
Mag ii.
In the belly of the Sphinx were dug corridors communicating
with the subterranean portion of the Great Pyramid. These
galleries were run into each other with so much· art that, if
one had entered without a guide, he would have been
inextricably tangled in his wanderings and would have finally
returned to the original entrance.
The two first initiates by rank of age, clothed in the
grade of Thesmothete or Guardian of the Rites, had the
mission of leading, at night, the postulant stranger that an
unanimous vote admitted to the trials. This latter must
submit himself to the discretion of his conductors. The
aspirant must give himself up entirely to the direction of his
guides, listen to their advice as to orders, and ask no
questions. As soon as Memphis was left, his eyes were
bandaged in order that he should not know the distance
Page 5
traveled, nor the secret place to which they were con-
ducting him.
Let us suppose now that the drama of the subterranean
trials is occurring and let us follow them, step by step. The
aspirant, his face veiled, is led to the foot of the Sphinx,
the bronze door opens and closes without noise under the hand
which has pressed the spring of its interior mechanism. One
of the Guardians takes a lamp hanging on the wall and wall<.s
ahead to light the way: the other leads the aspirant by the
hand down a spiral stairway of twenty-two steps. At the
bottom of the last step another bronze door opens and closes.
giving access to a circular hall. The inside of the door is
like the stones of the walls and harmonizes so perfectly with
them that when inside and the door is closed, it is impossible
to tell where the entrance has been made. It is here that
the scene of the trials begin.
The two guardians suddenly arrest the aspirant and make him
believe that he is on the edge of an abyss into which he would
be plunged with one more step. This abyss, they say,
surrounds the temple of the mysteries and protects it from
vulgar curiosity. "We are here too soon; our brothers have
not yet lowered the draw-bridge across which the Initiates go
to the Sacred Ground. Let us wait their coming, but if you
value your life do not stir; cross your hands upon your 'breast
Page 6
and do not take off the bandage from your eyes until the
signal to advance shall be given you." The aspirant knows
that he no longer belongs to himself, and that passive
obedience is his only law if he would successfully pass the
trials that await him;-trials that are to prove the worth of
his spirit and the measure of control that he can exercise
upon himself.
He has submitted to the conditions of obedience before
putting himself en-route with his guides. He feels strong in
his mind, in his Will, in his ardent desire to know the
mysteries of which the key is promised to his ability and
perseverance;-but however strong he may be he has senses, and
his senses tremble at the threshold of the unknown.
While he braves against this first emotion, the guardians
take from the altar two white linen robes, two belts, one of
gold the other of silver, and two masks, one the head of a
lion the other the head of a bull. The robe is the emblem of
purity of the Magus; the gold is consecrated to the sun, the
silver to the moon1 the head of the lion symbolizes the
Zodiacial sign that astrological language assigns for throne
to the genius of the sun; the head of the bull symbolizes the
sign in which the genius of the moon exercises its most potent
influence. The guardians, dressed in these mysterious
attributes, are thus the representatives of the two Egyptian
Page 7
Genii, Pi-Rhe and Pi-Ish, who govern the evolution of the sun
and moon; the two stars to which magic attributes the most
direct action upon the creation, the dissolution, and the
renewing of earthly creatures.
This symbolism expressed also, that the study of the laws
of visible nature is the first degree of ascension toward the
hi,ghest illumination of the mind. But the meaning of material
signs will not be revealed to the aspirant until fle has
passed his trials.
As soon as the Thesmothetes are masked, a trap descents in
the ground accompanied with a great noise. From the excava-
tion issues a mechanical spectre; only half of his body is
seen; he brandishes a scythe and a lugubrious voice cries
from beneath the ground, ••Grief and misfortune will come to
the profane one, who disturbs the peace of the dead."
At the same time the bandage is snatched from the eyes of
the postulant by one of the Thesmothetes. He finds himself
face to face with three monstrous figures. If, notwith-
standing the horror of that surprise, he does not faint when
the frightful scythe is swept at him seven times only just
escaping his neck,-the spectre disappears and the trap
recloses.
The Thesmothetes unmask and congratulate him upon his
courage, -"You have felt", they say, "the cold of deathly
Page 8
steel and have not recoiled; you have looked upon the horror
and your eyes have defied it; it is well. In your country
you would have been regarded as a hero, but among us there
is a virtue higher than physical courage; it is the humility
that triumphs over pride. Are you capable of that victory
over yourself?"
The Postulant, feeling that the physical proof is over,
offers himself for the moral one. ;' Very well " , they say,
"you must crawl on your hands and knees until you reach the
sanctuary where our brethern wait to give you science and
power in exchange for humility. Will you submit to this
painful journey?"
The Postulant again accepted; "Take then this lamp", added
the initiators, "it is the image of the Eye of God, which
follows us even when hidden from the eye of man; go without
fear; you have only yourself to fear in the trial of solitude."
While he received the lamp from one of the guardians, the
other touched a secret spring which moved a bronze plaque.
This revealed a low tunnel which could only be entered on
the hands and knees. "Let this road, ' said the Thesmothete,
"be for you, the image of the tomb in which all must make
their bed when the night of terrestrial life comes to reawake
them, freed from the shadows of matter in the eternal dawn of
the life of spirit. You have vanquished the spectre of death;
Page 9
triumph ~ over the horrors of the sepulcher.''
If the Postulant hesitated, the guardians neither reproached
nor encouraged him. They waited in silence, only extending
the right hand toward the opening, in sign of command to
passive obedience. If the Postulant did not then obey, they
reveiled his face to conduct him out of the sacred precincts.
The law of Magism did not again permit him to renew the trial.
His powerlessness was judged! If he submitted frankly, the
Thesmothetes gave him the kiss of peace and wished him a
good journey. As soon as his body had disappeared in the
granite tube, the plaque of bronze that had opened to give
him entrance, fell back to its place with a metallic noise
and a far off voice cried: "Thus perish the fools who have
coveted science and power."
These lugubrious words, that by a marvelous acoustic effect
were re-echoed seven times, shook the mind of the Postulant.
('Would he be the victim of his imprudent confidence? Did
the Magii condemn to death any stranger who aspired to
penetrate their mysteries? But then, why had they not struck
him down with the scythe? Why bury him alive? Why give him
a lamp?) ' Indecision was blended with terror as if to make
him taste the menace of long agony. However he was still
crawling along and remarked with growing alarm that the
direction of the tunnel dipped more and more into the depths
Page 10
of the earth. Where would this incline end and what would
become of him if his lamp went out? He crawls, still crawls,
then suddenly the tube seems to dilate,-to enlarge, the
vault heightens but the inferior slant, still descending,-
finishes at the edge of a vast crater, shaped in the form of
a reverse cone, of which the sides are so highly polished
that they seem in the trembling light of the lamp to be of
steel. An iron ladder succeeds the tube and descends into
the unsoundable depths.
In front, the unknown full of peril; behind, retreat
interdicted, and between these two, an inertia full of
anguish with death in perspective;-it was enough to render
insane the most stoical philosopher. Reason, however, gave
one last council;-it was to advance step by step to the
limits of the possible. The iron ladder counted seventy
eight steps; arriving at the lowest, the Postulant saw with
renewed terror, that the cone terminated in a yawning well
which drew him as if it were the secret of an implacable fate.
Shivering in a supreme horror but calling to his aid the last
force that despair can lend, he remounted several steps and
looked closely about the short space which his lamp lighted.
At the left, he saw a crevice unperceived in his descent.
This crevice was of the breadth of a man. Holding onto the
ladder with one hand and carrying his lamp before him with
Page 11
the other , he saw into the crevice and perceived some steps.
Without doubt it was a road, but where did it lead to? In
any case it lead from the gulf. His first step would at
least be a place of surety, a resting spot. Hope and faith
reanimated the heart of the Postulant. He had, without
divining the means, the instinct of a near deliverance. He
r~proached himself for having accused the Magii and recalled
their warning: "Go on without fear, you have only yourself
to dread in the trial of solitude."
After some minutes of reflection, which gave serenity to
his mind, he raised himself and started on his way through
the crevice, carefully planting his feet on each narrow step.
This road turned spirally and pierced the rock like a screw.
At the foot of the twenty-second step was a grating of bronze,
across which the Postulant saw a long gallery sustained by
sculptured Caryatides, representing twenty-four Sphinx, twelve
on the right and twelve on the left. Between, each space
separating two sphinx, the wall is covered by a frescoed
painting representing personages and mysterious symbols. The
twenty-two pictures face each other, two by two, and are
lighted by eleven tripods of bronze arranged upon a line
which parts in its length the middle of the gallery. Each
tripod supports a crystal sphinx in which burns an asbestos
wick at the surface of the embalmed oil.
Page 12
A Magus, called Pastophore, guardian of the sacred symbols,
came and opened the grating. nson of earth", said he,
smiling, "Welcome! You have escaped the snare of the abyss
in discovering the road of the sages. Very few of the
aspirants to the mysteries have, before you, triumphed over
that trial; the others have perished! Since the Great Isis
protects you, she will conduct you, I hope, safe and sound to
.
the sanctuary where virtue receives its crown. I must not
hide from you that other trials await, but it is permitted
to me to encourage you by explaining these symbols, the
knowledge of which creates about the heart of man an invisible
armor. Come! Let us look together at these holy images.
Listen closely to my words and if you can retain them in your
memory, the kings of the world, when you remount to the earth,
will be less powerful than you." Then passing in review,
turn by turn, the twenty-two pictures of the gallery, the
Postulant received from the Pastophore, the instructions which
we are going to read.
The science of the Will, principle of all wisdom and source
of all power, is contained in twenty-two Arcana or symbolic
hieroglyphics. 'l'hese attributes veil a sense and the whole
comprises an absolute Doctrine which sums itself up in the
mind by its correspondence with the letters of the sacred
language, and with the numbers which are united to these
Page 13
letters. Each letter and each number, when the look con-
templates them or the word utters them, expresses a _
reality
of the divine world, the intellectual world and of the physical
world.
Each Arcanum rendered visible and tangible by one of these
paintings is that formula of one law of human activity in its
relation to material and spiritual forces in combination of
which produce all of the phenomena of life.
This note is from a manuscript on THE TAROT, by Thomas H.
Burgoyne, and from the TAROT of the BOHEMIANS, the most
ancient book in the world, by Papus. The note is placed here
because the 22 Arcana, in this initiation, correspond to the
22 Major Arcana of the Symbolical TAROT, the primitive book
of ancient initiation.
That which is above is, analogically, the same as that
which is below. There is but one law, one Agent, one Truth,
one Word. All which is,--is the result of Quantities and
Equilibriums.
All religions have preserved recollections of a primitive
book written in figures by the Sages of the first ages of the
world. These figures, simplified and vulgarized at later dates,
furnished to writing its letters, to the world its characters,-
and to Occult Philosophy and Astrology its mysterious signs
and pentacles.
This book was the symbolical summary of the primitive
tradition called the Kabbalah, and the 22 keys are the 22
letters of the primitive Kabbalistical Alphabet. The
antiquity of this book is completely lost in the ni9ht of
time:-vestiges of it are to be found among all peoples of
the world. It is symbolical and its combinations adapt
themselves to all the marvels of Creative Spirit. Altered in
its passage through the ages, it has, however, preserved its
types and the most important of its primitive figures and so
constitutes, in its grand chain of sequences a complete
system of Hieroglyphical and Kabbalistical Science.
Similar to the ordinary playing cards used today, the TARO
had 4 suits, Sceptres (clubs), Cups (hearts), Swords (spades),
and Pentacles (diamonds) • Each suit had cards numbered 1 to 10
Page 14
and 4 picture cards, King, Queen, Chevalier and Valet. To
these were added 22 Symbolical Keys, making 78 cards, which
are all that exist today.
SUMMARY: TARO CARDS
10 Numbered cards
4 Picture cards
14 Cards in each suit
There are 4 suits, so
14 x 4 = 56 cards
Symbol-
ical
keys - - 22
TOTAL--- 78
SUMMARY: CONVENTIONAL PLAYING CARDS
10 Numbered cards
2 Picture cards
13 Cards in each suit
There are 4 suits, so
13 x 4 = 52 cards
So every time you play a game of cards you are feeling
cards which had their origin in the ancient mystic TARO
cards. The Egyptian priests used these cards, along with
their understanding of the stars to fortell the future.
Originally there were 29 Esoteric Keys, plus the seal of
Metron, used in the HIGHEST initiation, making a total of
108 cards (pages), or the magic 9. One, plus 0, plus 8 is 9.
SUMMARY: 78 TARO cards
29 Esoteric Keys
~-1 Seal of Metron
108 Cards (pages) THE MAGIC 9.
Arcanur- I. ( f,J )Letter Alohim ( A ) Number 1.
A--I expresses in the divine world Absolute Being which
contains and from which emanate the infinity of possibilities.
In the intellectual world, Unity, Principle and Synthesis
of numbers and the Will, principle of the acts.
In the physical world, man the highest placed of relative
beings, is called upon to raise himself by a perpetual
expansion of his faculties in the concentric spheres of the
Absolute.
The Arcanum I is expressed by a Magus,type of the perfect
man,-that is to say in full possession of his moral and
Page 15
physical qualities. He is represented ~tanding;-it is the
attitude of the Will that preq~Qes action. His robe is
···. :; .
l
white, image of purity, origi~ql or reconquered. A serpent
biting his own tail serves him for a gi~dle,-it is the
symbol of eternity. His forehead is gi~t with a circle of
gold. Gold signifies light, and the circle expresses the
universal circumference in which gravitate all created things.
The right hand of the Magus holds a sceptre of gold, sign of
command . He raises it toward heaven in sign of aspiration
to science,-to wisdom,-to force. The left hand extends the
index finger to the earth to show that the mission of the
perfect man is to reign over the material world. This double
gesture also expresses that the human Will should reflect
the divine Will in order to produce good and to prevent evil.
Before the Magus upon a cubic stone are placed a cup, a sword
and a shekel, a piece of gold money in the center of which is
engraved a cross.
The cup signifies the mixture of the passions which con-
tribute to happiness or unhappiness, according as we are
their masters or their slaves. The sword signifies work,
the struggle which traverses obstacles and trials which
sorrow submits us to. The Shekel, sign of determined value,
symbol of realized aspirations, works accomplished;-shows the
sum of power conquered by the perseverence and efficiency of
Page 16
the Will. The cross, seal of the Infinite by which the
sheckel is marked, announces the future ascension of that
power in the spheres of the future.
Remember, then, son of earth that man should, like G O D,act
without ceasing. To Will nothing and to do NOTHING is
more fatal than to Will and do ill. If the Magus should
appear in the prophetic signs of thy horoscope,-it announces
that a firm Will and faith in yourself, guided by reason and a
love of ]ustice will conduct you to the end that you wish to
attain, and will preserve you from the perils of the way.
Arcanum II. Letter Beinthin ( B ) Number 2
B--2 expresses in the divine world the consciousness of the
Absolute Being which embraces the three terms of all mani-
festation; the past, the present, and the future. In the
intellectual world the Binary reflection of unity; Science,
perception of things, visible and invisible.
In the physical world, woman, the mould of man,-uniting
herself with him in order to accomplish an equal destiny.
The Arcanum II is expressed by a woman seated at the
threshold of Isis, between two columns. The column on her
right is red. This color signified pure spirit and its
ascension over matter. The column on her left is black and
signifies the captivity of spirit in matter. The woman is
crowned by a tiara, surmounted by a lunar crescent and
Page 17
enveloped in a veil, the fol¢s of which fall over her face.
She wears upon her bosom a solar cross and carries upon her
knees an open book which she half covers with her mantle.
This symbolic ensemble personifies occult science which
awaits the Initiate at the threshold of the sanctuary of
Isis in order to tell to him the secrets of universal nature.
The solar cross (analogous to the Hindu Lingum, which is the
figurative sign of the union of the two sexes) , signifies
the fecundation of matter by spirit. It expresses also, as
seal of the Infinite, that knowledge comes from GOD ,-and
that it is without boundaries as is its source.
The veil enveloping the tiara, and falling over the face,
announces that truth hides itself from the gaze of profane
curiosity.
The book, half hidden under the mantle, signifies that the
mysteries are revealed only in solitude to the sage who
meditates in silence in the full and calm possession of
himself.
Remember, thou son of earth, that the mind is enlightened
in seeking G O D with the eyes of the Will. G O D has said
"Let Light Be" and Light inundated space. Man should say
"Let Truth show itself and good come to me." And if a man
possesses a healthy Will, he will see the truth shine,-and
guided by it will attain all to which he aspires!
Page 18
If Arcanum II appears in thy horoscope, strike resolutely
at the door of the future and it will open to you; but study
for a long time the way you should enter. Turn your face
toward the sun of justice and the knowledge of the True will
be given you. Keep silent in regard to your intention, so
as not to be influenced by the contradictions of men.
Arcanum III. (~ Letter Gomer. ( G ) Number Three.
.
G--III. Expresses in the divine world, Supreme Power,
balanced by eternally active intelligence and absolute
wisdom.
In the intellectual world, the universal fecundity of
Being.
In the physical world, Nature in labor, the germination of
acts,-which must hatch from the Will.
The Arcanum III is figured by a woman, seated in the center
of a radiant sun; she is crowned with twelve stars and her
feet rest upon the moon. It is the personification of
universal fecundity. The Sun is the emblem of creative
power. The Starry crown, symbolized by the number twelve;
those houses or stations which the Sun travels through from
year to year about the Zodiacal Zone. This woman, celestial
Isis or Nature, carries a sceptre surmounted by a globe. It
is the sign of her perpetual action upon all things born or
to be born. In the other hand she carries an eagle, symbol
Page 19
of the heights to which the flight of the spirit can raise
itself. The moon, placed under her feet, figures the lowness
of matter and its domination by spirit .
Remember, thou son of earth, that to affirm what is true
and Will what is just is already to create it;-to affirm and
Will the contrary is to vow oneself to destruction. If the
Arcanum III is shown among the prophetic signs of thy
horoscope, hope for success in thy enterprises;-provided
thou knowest how to unite the activity which fecundates to
that rectitude of mind which will make thy works bear fruit.
Arcanum IV. H Letter Denain ( D ) Number 4.
D--4 Expresses in the divine world, the realization, perpe-
tual and hierarchic,-of the virtualities and efficacies
contained in Absolute Being.
In the intellectual world, the realization of the ideas
of contingent Being; by the four-fold labor of the mind,
Affirmation, Negation, Discussion, and Solution.
In the physical world, the realization of acts;-directed
by the knowledge of Truth, the love of Justice, the force
of the Will, and the works of the Organs. The Arcanum IV
is figured by a man,-on his head is a crowned helmet. He
is seated upon a cubic stone; his right hand raises a
sceptre and his right leg bent, rests upon the other in
the form of a cross. The cubic stone, image of the perfect
Page 20
solid, signifies the human work accomplished. The crowned
helmet is an emblem of the force which has conquered power.
This ruler is in possession of the sceptre of Isis, and the
stone which serves him as a throne signifies the matter he
has vanquished. The cross, traced by the position of his
legs, symbolizes the four elements and the expansion of
human power in all senses.
Remember, thou son of earth, that nothing can resist a
firm Will,-which has for a lever, the knowledge of the true
and the just. To combat, in order to secure its realization,
is more than a right,-it is a duty. The man who triumphs
in that struggle only accomplishes his earthly mission; he
who succumbs in devoting himself to it, gains immortality.
If the Arcanum IV appear in thy horoscope, it signifies
that the realization of thy hopes depends upon a Being more
powerful than thyself. seek to know H I M and thou wilt
have H I s support.
Arcanum V (.
.6 Letter Eni ( E ) Number 5
E--V expresses in the divine world universal Law, regulator
of the infinite manifestations of Being in the unity of
substance.
In the intellectual world religion,-the relation of the
Absolute Being to the relative being, of the Infinite to
the finite.
Page 21
In the physical world Inspiration, communicated by the
vibrations of the astral fluid. The trial of man, by liberty
of action,-in the impassible circle of universal Law.
The Arcanum V is figured by the image of the hierophant,
master of the sacred mysteries. This prince of the occult
doctrine is seated between two columns of the sanctuary; he
leans upon a cross of three bars, and with the index finger
of his right hand he traces upon his chest,-the sign of
silence; at his feet two men are prostrated,-one dressed in
red, the other in black. The hierophant, supreme organ of
sacred science,-represents the genius of the good inspirations
of the mind and conscience. His gestures invites you to
meditation, in order to hear the voice of heaven in the
silence of the passions and the instincts of the flesh. The
right column symbolizes divine Law, that on the left sym-
bolizes the liberty to obey or disobey. The cross with three
bars is the emblem of G O D , penetrating three worlds in
order that birth may be given to all the manifestations of
universal life.
The two prostrated men,-the one red, the other black,
figures the genii of light and shadow, and both obey the
master of the Arcana.
Remember, thou son of earth, that before saying of a man
that he is fortunate or unfortunate,-thou must know the~
Page 22
to which he has put his Will, for every man creates his
life in the image of his works. The genius of good is at
thy right, that of evil at thy left; their voices can be
heard only by thy conscience. Withdraw into thyself and it
will reply to you.
Arcanum VI ( :{ Letter Ur (U.V.) Number 6 .
u.v.--VI expresses in the divine world the knowledge of
good and evil.
In the intellectual world, the balance of liberty and
necessity: in the physical world,-the antagonisms of natural
forces, the linking of cause and effect. The Arcanum VI is
figured by a man standing motionless at the angle formed by
the junction of two roads. His looks are fixed on the
ground, his arms are crossed upon his chest. Two women,-one
at his right, the other at his left, each place a hand on
his shoulder, showing him one of the two roads. The woman
placed at his right has a circle of gold about her brow,
she personifies virtue. The one on the left is crowned with
a vine branch full of leaves,-she represents vice, the
temptress. Above and back of this group;-the genius of
justice, hovering in a flashing auricle, draws his bow
directed toward vice,-the arrow of punishment.
Remember then, son of earth, that for the most part of men
the attraction of Vice has greater prestige than the austere
Page 23
beauty of Virtue. If the Arcanum VI appears in thy horoscope,
take care of thy resolutions. Obstacles bar before Thee, the
path thou wouldst pursue; contrary chances hover over Thee
and thy Will wavers between two opposite parts. Indecision
is, above all else, worse than a bad choice. Advance and
recoil, but do not hesitate, and know that a chain of flowers
is more difficult to break than a chain of iron.
Arcanum VII ( /'1- )Letter Zain ( Z ) Number 7.
z--VII expresses in the divine world the septenary, the
domination of spirit over matter. In the intellectual
world the Sacerdocy and the Empire; in the physical world
submission of the elements and forces of matter to the
intelligence and forces of man.
Arcanum VII is figured by a war chariot of square form,
surmounted by a starry canopy sustained by four columns. Upon
this chariot advances a conqueror, armed in a cuirass and
carrying both sword and sceptre. He is crowned with a circle
of gold from which rise three pentagrams, or golden stars
with five points. The square car symbolizes the work of the
Will that has vanquished a ll obstacles. The four columns of
the starry canopy figure the four elements which have sub-
mitted to the master of the sceptre and the sword. Upon the
square face which the front of the chariot presents, is
traced a sphere, sustained by two out~spread wings, sign of
Page 24
the unlimited exaltation of human power in the infinitude of
space and time. The crown of gold on the forehead of the
conqueror, signifies the possession of intellectual light
which makes clear all the arcana of fortune. The three
stars which rise from it symbolize power, balanced by in-
telligence and wisdom. Three square rules are traced upon
the cuirass, they signify the rectitude of judgement, of
Will and of action which guides the force of which the
cuirass is the emblem. The high held sword is the sign
of victory; the sceptre surmounted by a triangle, symbol
of spirit; by a square, symbol of matter; by a circle,
symbol of eternity which signifies the perpetual domination
of intelligence over the forces of nature.
Two sphinx, one white the other black, are harnessed to the
car. The white symbolizes good, the black symbolizes evil:-
one conquered, the other vanquished. Both have become the
servitors of the Magus who has triumphed over every tempta-
tion and every trial.
Remember then, son of earth, the empire of the world
belongs to them that possess the sovereignty of the spirit,-
that is to say, the light which makes clear the mysteries of
life. In breaking through obstacles thou wilt crush thine
enemies, and all thy wishes will be realized if thou attack
the future with audacity, armed with the consciousness of
Page 25
thy right.
Arcanum VIII ~ ) Letter Helitha ( H ) Number 8.
H--VIII expresses in the divine world absolute justice; in
the intellectual world attraction and repulsion; in the
physical world relative justice, fallible and limited, which
comes from man.
Arcanum VIII is figured by a woman, seated upon a throne,
her forehead encircled with a crown of lance-heads; she holds
in her right hand a sword, the point raised; in her left hand
is a balance. It is the ancient symbol of justice, which
weighs all acts and which opposes to evil as a counter-
weight, the sword of expiation. Justice, emanating from
G O D , is the equilibrating reaction which reconstitutes
order,-that is to say, equilibrium between right and wrong.
The sword is here a sign of protection for the good and a
menace for the wicked. The eyes of Justice are covered with
a bandage to show that she weighs and strikes without taking
into account the conventional differences that men have
established for themselves.
Remember then, son of earth, that to be victorious over
thyself and dominate obstacles is but a part of the human
task. To accomplish it entirely, thou must establish
equilibrium between the forces that thou hast brought into
play. All action produces its reaction. The Will should
Page 26
forsee the shock of opposite forces in order to temper or
annul them. The future is balanced between good and evil.
An unbalanced mind resembles an abortive sun.
Arcanum IX ( ~ Letter Thela ( T. H. ) Number 9.
T.H.--IX expresses in the divine world absolute wisdom:
in the intellectual world, prudence, direction of the Will;
in the physical world, circumspection, guidance of acts.
The Arcanum IX is figured by an old wanderer leaning on
a staff and carrying before him a lighted lamp which he half
conceals under his cloak. This old man personifies ex-
perience acquired in the journey through life. The lighted
lamp signifies the light of intelligence which should be
thrown upon the past, the present, and the future. The
mantle which half conceals it signifies discretion. The
staff signifies the support which prudence lends to the man
who keeps his own council.
Remember then, son of earth, prudence is the armor of the
wise; circumspection will make him avoid snares and abysses
and forsee treason. Take it for thy guide in all thy actions,
even the least. Nothing is indifferent here below. A pebble
can overturn a chariot of the master of the world. Remember
that speech is silver, but silence is gold.
Arcanum X Letter lOJTNI (I.J.X.) Number 10
I.J.X. x. expresses in the divine world the active principle
Page 27
which vivifies all beings; in the intellectual world the
governing authority; in the physical world good or evil
fortune.
Arcanum X is figured by a wheel suspended upon its axis
between two columns. At the right Hermanubis, genius of
good,-strives to mount to the summit of the circumference.
At the left, Typhon, genius of evil is precipitated. The
Sphinx in equilibrium on this wheel, holds a sword
0
in the
claws of a lion. It personifies destiny, always ready to
strike to the right or to the left and which, according as
the wheel turns under its impulsion,-raises the humble and
lowers the proud.
Remember then, son of earth, that for power thou must Will,
that is Will strongly; thou must Dare, that to dare with
success, thou shouldst know how to be silent until the moment
of action, and in order to maintain thyself upon the heights
of life, if thou reachest them, thou shouldst have learned
how to sound, with a look and without dizziness, the vastest
depths.
Arcanum XI. Letter Caitha, ( C.K. ) Number 20
C.K.--20 expresses in the divine world the principle of
force, spiritual or material; in the intellectual world,
moral force; in the physical world, organic force.
Arcanum XI is figured by the image of a young girl who
Page 28
closes ~ithout effort, and with her hands,-the jaws of a lion;
it is the image of the force,-that faith in .2.!!§.§. self, which
the i~nocence of life will give.
Remember then, son of earth~ that for po~er one must
believe in ones own . apility·. Advance w~th faith to become
'
strong. Impre~s sile9c~ upon the weakne~ses of the heart.
Thou must study duty, which is th~ rule of right, and practice
justice as if you loved it.
Arcanum XII ( ;:> Letter Luzain, ( L ) Number 30.
L.--30 expresses in the divine world, the revealed law. In
the intellectual world, the teaching of duty; in the physical
world,-sacrifice.
Arcanum XII is figured by a man suspended by one foot to a
gallows which is placed upon two trees, each having six cut
branches. The hands are tied behind his back and the fold of
his arms forms the base of a reversed triangle, of which his
head is the summit. It is the sign of violent death, coming
unexpectedly by accident or in expiation of a crime,-or
accepted through heroic devotion to truth and justice. The
twelve cut branches signify the extinction of life, the
destruction of the twelve houses of the horoscope. The
triangle with the summit reversed symbolizes a catastrophy.
Remember then, son of earth, that sacrifice is a divine
law from which none are exempted, but expect any ingratitude
Page 29
from men. Always hold thy soul in readiness to render its
account to the eternal, for if the Arcanum XII appear in
thy horoscope, a violent death will spread its snares upon
thy way; but if the world attempts the earthly life do not
die without accepting, with resignation,-this decree of
G 0 D , and without pardoning thy cruelest enemies FOR
WHOSOEVER DOES NOT FORGIVE HERE BELOW WILL BE CONDEMNED IN
THE NEXT LIFE TO AN ETERNAL SOLITUDEo
Arcanum XIII. ( .~ ) Letter, Mataloth. ( M } Number 40
M,--40 expresses in the divine world the perpetual movement
of creation, destruction, and renewing; in the intellectual
world, ascension of the spirit into Divine spheres; in the
physical world, natural death, that is to say, transforma-
tion of human nature at the end of its last organic period.
Arcanum XIII is figured by a skeleton reaping heads in a
field from which springs the hands and feet of men. The
scythe progresses in its work. It is the emblem of the
perpetual destruction and rebirth of all forms of being in
the domain of time.
Remember then, son of earth, that terrestrial things are of
short duration and that the highest powers are reaped as the
grass of the fields. The dissolution of thy organs will come
sooner than thou expectest. But do not dread it, for death is
but the parturition of another life. The universe ~absorbs
Page 30
without ceasing all which spring from her bosom, that has
NOT spiritualized itself. But the releasing of ourselves
from material instincts by a free and voluntary adhesion of
our soul to the laws of universal movement constitute in us
the creation of a second man, a celestial man, and begins
our immortality.
Arcanum XIV ~ ) Letter Nain. ( N ) Number 50.
N,--50 expresses in the divine world, the perpetual movement
of life; in the intellectual world, the combination of ideas
which create the moral life; in the physical world, the
combination of the forces of nature.
Arcanum XIV is figured by the genius of the Sun holding
two urns, and pouring from one to the other the conducting
juice of life. It is the symbol of the combinations which
are working without cessation in all the kingdoms of nature.
Son of earth, consult thy forces, not to recoil at thy
works, but in order to wear out obstacles, as water, falling
drop by drop, wears away the hardest stone.
Arcanum XV 1-::J ) Letter Xiron. ( X ) Number 60.
X,--60 expresses in the divine world, predestination; in the
intellectual world, mystery; in the physical world, the
unforseen fatality.
Arcanum XV is figured by Typhon, genius of catastrophies,
rising from a flaming gulf and shaking his torches above two
Page 31
men chained at his feet. It is the image of fatality which
bursts in certain lives like the eruption of a volcano, and
which envelopes the great as well as the little, the strong
as well as the weak,-the most dextrous as well as the un-
farseeing in equal misfortune. Whoever thou mayest be, son
of earth, look at the old oaks that have defied the lighten-
ing and that the lightening has brought down after a century
.
of immunity. Cease to believe in wisdom or Thy force if
G O D has not permitted thee to seize the key of the Arcanum
which chains fate.
Arcanum XVI ( !] Letter Olelath, ( O ) Number 70.
o,--70 expresses in the divine world, the chastisement of
pride. In the intellectual world, the fainting of the mind
which attempts to penetrate the mystery of G 0 D. In the
physical world, the ruins of fortune.
Arcanum XVI is figured by a tower, which the lightening
has unroofed. A crowned, and an uncrowned man are thrown
from its heights with the rest of the debris. It is the
symbol of the conflict of material forces which can grind
the great as the little, kings as well as their subjects. It
is also the emblem of rivalries which end in nothing but a
common ruin, sterile projects, hopes that are extinguished,
enterprises that fail, ambitions frustrated,-death by
catastrophy.
Page 32
Arcanum XVII ( ~ Letter Pilon, (F.P. ) Number 80
F.P.--80, expresses in the divine world, immortality. In the
intellectual world, the interior light which illumines the
spirit. In the physical world hope.
Arcanum XVII is figured by a blazing star of eight rays
surrounded by seven other stars, hovering over a nude young
girl, who pours upon the arid earth, the fluids of universal
life contained in the two cups, one of gold, the other of
silver. Near her, a butterfly rests on a rose. This young
girl is the emblem of hope which sheds its dews on our
saddest days. She is nude, signifying that hope remains to
us when despoiled of all else. Above this figure, the
blazing star of eight rays, symbolize the apocalypse of des-
tiny closed with the seven seals that are the seven planets
represented by seven other stars. The butterfly is the sign
of resurrection beyond the tomb.
Remember then, son of earth, that hope is the sister of
faith. Shed thy passions and thy errors in order to study
the mysteries of true science and the key will be given you;
then a ray of divine light will break from the occult
sanctuary in order to dissipate the shadows of thy future
and show thee the way of HAPPINESS. Whatever may happen in
thy life, never injure the flowers of hope and you will
gather the fruits of faith.
Page 33
Arcanum XVIII ( '-U )Letter Tsaidi (T.s.) Number 90.
T.S.--90 expresses in the divine world, the abysses of the
Infinite. In the intellectual world, the shadows which
envelop the spirit when it has submitted itself to the rule
of the instincts. In the physical world, deceptions and
hidden enemies.
Arcanum XVIII is figured by a field that the half-veiled
moon lights with a faint twilight. A tower is raised upon
each border of a path which looses itself in the desert of
the horizon. Before one of these towers is a squatting wolf;
before the other a dog barking at the moon; between these
two animals crawls a crawfish. These towers symbolize the
false security which see not hidden perils that are more
redoubtable than seen perils.
Remember then, son of earth, that whoever braves the un-
known, does it at his peril. Hostile minds, figured by the
wolf, will surround him with ambushes; servile minds, figured
by the dog, will hide their treason under base flatteries;
and lazy minds, figured by the rampant crawfish, will pass
unmoved by his ruin. Observe, listen, and know how to be
silent.
Arcanum XIX ( ~ ) Letter Quitolath (K.Q.) Number 100
Q,--100 expresses in the divine world, the supreme heaven.
In the intellectual world, the sacred truth. In the physical
Page 34
world, peaceable HAPPINESS.
Arcanum XIX is figured by a radiant sun, lighting two
little children, image of innocence, who hold each other by
the hands in the midst of a circle enameled with flowers; it
is the symbol of the happiness that simplicity of life and
moderation of desires will give.
Remember then, son of earth, that the light of the mysteries
is a redoubtable fluid, put by nature at the service of the
Will; she lights those who know how to direct her; she
strikes down with a thunder-bolt, those who ignore her power
or who abuse it.
Arcanum XX ( ~) Letter Rasith ( R) Number 200.
R,--200, figures the passage of earthly life to the future
life9 A genius sounds the trumpet above a tomb which opens.
A man, a woman and a child, collective symbol of the human
trinity, rise from their funeral couch. It is the sign of
the change that is the end of everything, good as well as
evil.
Remember then, son of earth, that all fortune is changeable
even that which appears the most stable. The ascension of the
soul is the fruit that it should draw from the successive
trials. Hope in suffering, but mistrust thyself in
prosperity. Go not asleep in idleness or forgetfulness. At
an unknown moment, the wheel of fortune will turn, thou wilt
Page 35
be raised or lowered by the Sphinx.
Ar canurn XXI ( \l) Letter Sieben (SH) Number 300
This supreme Arcanum of Magism is figured by a crown of
golden roses surrounding a star and placed in a circle, about
which is ranged at equal dista,nces, the head of a man, the
head of a bull, the head of a lion and the head of an eagle.
MAN
BULL EAGLE
LION
It is the sign decorating the Magus who has arrived at' the
highest degree of initiation and put by that degree, in
possession of a power of which the ascensional degrees have
no other limits than those of his intelligence and wisdom.
Remember then, son of earth, that the empire of this world
belongs to the empire of LIGHT and that the empire of Light
is the throne that G O D reserves to the sanctified Will.
Happiness is for the Magus, the fruit of the knowledge of
Page 36
good and evil, but G 0 D does not permit us to gather ~~is
imperishable fruit until man is suffi1:ientlv master of
himself, to approach it without coveting.
Arcanum XXII Letter Thoth, ( T ) Number 400.
T--400, figures the punishment which follows all sin. You
see here a blind man, carrying a full wallet and who is
going to stumble against a broken obelisque, upon which is
.
resting a crocodile with gaping jaws. This blind man is the
symbol of the man who has made himself the slave of matter.
His bundle is filled with his errors and his faults. The
broken obelisque figures the ruin of his works. The crocodile
is the emblem of implacable fatality and of inevitable
expiation.
LET US NOW SUM UP THE TWENTY-TWO ARCANUMS BY TWENTY-TWO
TITLES WHICH THE SYMBOLS EXPRESS.
*********
1st., The first is named the Magus and symbolizes the Will.
2nd., Door of the occult sanctuary, and symbolizes the
knowledge which should guie@. the Will.
3rd., Isis, Urania, and symbolizes the action which should
manifest the Will united with knowledge.
4th., Cubic Stone, and symbolizes the realization of
human acts, the accomplished work.
Page 37
5th., The Master of Arcanums, and symbolizes the in-
spiration which man receives from occult powers.
6th., The two ways, and symbolizes the trial to which all
wills are submitted in the presence of good and evil.
7th., The chariot of Osiris, and symbolizes the victory,
that is to say, the choice of the good, which is the fruit
of truth and justice.
8th., Themis, who symbolizes equilibrium by analogy with
the balance, which is the attribute of justice.
9th., The veiled lamp, and symbolizes prudence which
maintains equilibrium.
10th., The Sphinx, which symbolizes fortune, happy or
unhappy, accompanying every life.
11th., The conquered lion, which symbolizes force, which
man is called to conquer by the development of his moral and
intellectual faculties.
12th., Sacrifice, and symbolizes violent death.
13th., The Scythe, which symbolizes the transformation of
man, that is to say, his passage to the future life by
natural death.
14th., The Solar Genius, which symbolizes the initiative
man by Will, Knowledge and Action combined.
15th., Typhon, and symbolizes Fatality which often
strikes us with unforseen blows.
Page 38
16th., The Lightning struck tower, which symbolizes ruin
under all aspects that that idea can be presented.
17th., The Star of the Magus, and symbolizes Hope, which
leads to salvation by faith.
18th., The twilight, and symbolizes the deceptions, which
teach us our feebleness.
19th., The shining light, which symbolizes terr~strial
happiness.
20th., The awakening of the dead, which symbolizes that
renewing which changes good into evil, or evil into good in
the series of trials encountered in every career.
21st., Is named the crown of the Magii, and symbolizes
recompense awarded all men who fulfill their earthly mission,
by reflecting some traits of the image of G O D •
22nd., The crocodile and symbolizes expiation of errors
or voluntary faults.
In uniting successfully, the twenty-two significations
which emanate from these symbols, their ensemble is summed
up in the term; the synthesis of MAGIC.
The human .Ni1l (1), enlightened by Science (2), and
manifested by Action (3), creates Realization (4), of a
Power which it uses or abuses, according to good or bad
Inspiration (5) , in the circle which has been traced for it
by the laws of universal order. After having surmounted the
Page 39
Trial (6), which has been imposed by divine Wisdom, he will
enter by his Victory (7), in possession of the Work it has
created, and constituting his Equilibrium (8), upon the axis
of Prudence (9), he will rule the oscillations of Fortune
(10). The Force (11), of man sanctified by Sacrifice (12),
which is the voluntary of fer of himself upon the alter of
devotion or expiation, triumphs over death. And h~s divine
TRANSFORMATION (13), raising him beyond the tomb into the
serene regions of infinite progress, opposes the reality of
Initiative (14), to the eternal falsehood of Fatality (15).
The course of time is measured by Ruins (16), but beyond every
ruin one sees, reappears the dawn of Hope (17), or the
twilight of Deception {18). Unceasingly, man aspires to
that which ever flies from him and the .§.g!l of HAPPINESS (19),
will only rise for him beyond the tomb after the renewing
of his being by death, which opens to him a higher sphere
of Will, intelligence and action (20). On the contrary
E V E R Y Will which unites itself to G O o in order to
manifest truth and work justice, enters even in THIS life,
into participation of divine power over beings and things,
recompense eternal of freed spirits (21). Every Will that
lets itself be governed by the instincts of the body,
abdicates its liberty and is vowed to expiation of its error
or fault (22).
Page 40
In finishing these words, the Pastophore conducted the
Postulant to the bottom of the gallery of the Arcanums and
opened a door giving access under a new vault, narrow and
long, at the end of which roared a terrific fire. Before
this terrible sight, the Postulant trembled, "Where am I
going?" he asked in a stifled tone, "This is a peril without
issue save death." "Son of earth," replied the Pastophore,-
•
"peril and death never frighten but fools. If you are a
coward, why do you come here? Look at me! I have crossed
that flame as if it were a bed of roses."
Encouraged by the smile on the lips of the Magus, the
Postulant was reassured, and began to walk forward while
behind him closed the gallery of the Arcanums. Reflection,
which followed his first emotion, recalled to him that the
instructions he had just received would be useless to a man
about to perish. He was ignorant how this new trial would
finish; but then, had he forseen the end of his former
trials?
Gradually, as he approached the barrier of fire, his
confidence increased; and as he looked, the peril diminished.
The furnace was reduced to an optical illusion, created by
the interlacing of resinous wood disposed checker-wise upon
bars, in the midst of which was a road. He ran without fear
along it. But suddenly before him the vaulted avenue ended
Page 41
in a stagnant lake, whose wide surface covered depths of
which he was ignorant. Behind him, falling from the vault,
cascades of bituminous oil fell upon the flame;-the furnace
had become a reality!
Pressed thus between this curtain of flame which cut off
all retreat, and the water which perhaps concealed some
snare, he was forced to undertake the passage of the only
one which offered him some chance. He entered the dark water.
At each step the waters seemed to rise. They gained his
chest! Higher--- They reached his chin:-one step more and
he would be SUBMERGED!!!
But t ,he light of the furnace shining on the water showed
him that he had reached the middle of the lake. He felt the
bottom---he stepped forward and began to mount---on the
opposite banks, he saw a flight of stairs leading to a
platform, three sides of which were covered by a high arch.
On the farthest wall, was outlined a bronze door which
appeared to be divided into two by a small bronze column-
putting out from which- was a lions head, the jaws holding a
ring. The door was closed. The Postulant, dripping with
water and perishing with cold;-with difficulty, climbed the
stairs. On attaining the platform, he was astonished to
find it of resounding metal. He stopped near the door in
order to collect himself. Beyond the waters through which he
Page 42
had come, the light of the furnace gradually faded, until
it was completely extinguished. Obscurity reigned again
under these unknown vaults. Silence is full of horror; no
one appeared. How could he go on? How return? But behold! a
mysterious voice is again heard, "To stop", said the voice,
"is to perish. Behind you is death,-before you salvation."
One can divine the anxiety of the poor Postulant1 Pressed
by terror, he touched,-while shivering in the darkness,-the
sculptures of the bronze doors to see if he could find a
secret spring which would open them. He remembered the ring
in the jaws of the lion, of which the inferior part figured
the head of a serpent biting its own tail, and he thought to
himself, that perhaps, that was a species of hammer, which
by raising and then letting it fall, would resound on the
bronze door.
Hardly however, had he seized it with both hands, when the
metallic floor on which he was standing, sunk from beneath
him,- leaving him hanging in the air. This trial was, in
appearance very dangerous, for the Postulant might let go of
the ring. But the Magii had forseen this accident. The
depths into which the platform had sunk was divided by many
nets, stretched horizontally, which the weight of the falling
man would break,-one by one. This simple precaution sufficed
to soften the fall, and besides several Pastophors held
Page 43
themselves in readiness to receive the Postulant in their
arms. If he had not fallen, the platform immediately rose
again and resumed its old place. The Postulant could again
stand on it. As the bronze door opened before him, the
chief of an escort, composed of twelve Neocores (preservers
of the Sanctuary), made him again blindfold his eyes. Then
they led him, by the light of torches, along the J..ast
galleries which extended from the Sphinx to the great
Pyramid. These galleries were closed, from space to space by
secret doors which only opened after a secret word and sign
was given, closing immediately after admitting their passage.
The college of Magii awaited the Postulant in a crypt, dug
in the heart of the pyramid. Upon the walls of that crypt
were symbolic pictures, representing the fourty-eight (48)
genii of the year, the seven (7) genii of the planets, and
the 360 genii of the year. It was an imagedBible of which the
pictures; divided by sheets of gold, contained all the tradi-
tions that Magism had received from Hermes Thoth,-the great
revealer. All sacerdotal science was written beneath each
picture, but this writing could only be read by the initiates
to whom the Hierophant confided the key of the mystic alpha-
bet, -which they swore never to reveal. The same oath also
bound all the adepts from the Zelatens (title of the first
grade), to the Rosicrucian (title of the ninth grade), who
Page 44.
had received the seal of supreme initiation.
At the four angles of the crypt, stood four bronze statues,
posed on triangular columns. The first statue figured a
man, the second a bull, the third a lion, and the fourth
an eagle,-the symbolic divisions of the Sphinx. On the head
of each figured a receptacle in the form of a crown, con-
tained a light. Seven lamps with three branches, s~spended
from the vault from the angles of a golden rose of seven
rays, completed the illumination. The Hieophant, dressed in
purple, the forehead girt with a circle of gold from which
flowered seven stars, occupied a silver throne, raised upon
a platform in the center of the assembly.
The other Magii, in white alb (a priests garment), with
circles of gold without the stars, were arranged in triple
semi-circles at his right and left, upon seats less elevated.
Behind this Hierophantic throne, under a purple canopy,
appeared a colossal statue of Isis (personification of
Nature) composed of an alloy of lead, a metal consecrated
to Rempha, planetary genius of Saturn; tin, consecrated
to Pre·-Zeous, genius of Jupiter; iron, consecrated to Ertosi,
genius of Mars; gold, consecrated to Pi-Rhe, genius of the
Sun; copper, consecrated to Suroth, genius of Venus: fixed
mercury, consecrated to Thoth, (or Pi-Hermes) genius of
Mercury; of silver, consecrated to Pi--Ish, genius of the moon.
Page 45
Isis wore a triangular diadem of silver with an aigrette
of twelve rays . UJon her breast was a golden rose, figuring
the universal sphere, in the center of a cross of the same
metal, marking by the direction of its branches,-the four
cardinal points of the earth, and the avenues of the
infinite heights, depths, and width. The two arms of the
statue were extended a little in front of the body~ and
their separation measured the base of an equilateral triangle,
having for a summit the height of the forehead. The hands
were open, and each one projected toward the earth, five
rays of gold; for these ten rays, and the twelve of the
head aigrette, recalled the twenty-two arcana
described.
previously
Page 46
Before the Hierophant, in the middle of the crypt, was a
large silver table of circular form, upon which was engraved
this theoretical figure of the horoscope.
South
East
North
EXPLANATION
Inside the center circle, Angles of configuration.
I, II, III, etc.: Roman numerals, Houses of the Zodiac.
V t5 lI ~ , etc.: Signs of the Zodiac in their houses;
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo,
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius,
Capricorn, _Aquarius, and Pisces.
West
etc.: Signs of the Planets; Mars, Sun, Venus,
Mercury, Moon (Earth), Saturn, and
Jupiter.
Page 47
The table was supported by twelve Cariatides, each figure
being the emblem of one of the signs of the zodiac. The
same signs were also engraved in monograms upon a large
circle of gold, set in a groove running around the table.
This circle, divided in twelve parts, and put in motion by a
catch wheel, turned as desired to bring any one of the twelve
signs to the east that corresponded to the precise time of
.
some birth. In the center of the table a pivot was raised,
traversing the heads of seven moveable needles, each one made
of the metal consecrated to the planetary genius that it re-
presented. When the zodiacial circle was fixed, the planet
designated by each needle was directed upon a point determined
by magical calculations.
The Orient and the Occident of the Uranographic Planisphere
was marked by two stands of bronze, on which at breast height,
were two tablets plastered with wax, upon which the observing
Magus traced the results of his study. This study constituted
the supreme trial of initiation. The candidate received from
the hand of the Hierophant the subject of a horoscope to
trace and explain, while standing there before the assembled
college, and it was necessary that he could acquit himself
of that task without committing a single error, under pain
of seeing the day of his admission to the ranks of the Rose-
Cross indefinitely adjourned.
Page 49
But let us return now to our Postulant, whose tribulations
have not yet been finished. In a half-drowned ~tate, dripping
with water and made feverish by the agitation of all his
faculties, physical and moral, they stopped him before the
Magus at the entrance of the crypt. The twelve Neocores
arranged themselves on each side of him. "Son of earth",
said the Heirophant to him, "people of your own country
believe you wise and good, and you already feel in your
heart more pride than they give you admiration. You heard
that one possessed supernatural knowledge, and you did not
rest until you obtained permission to penetrate among us.
Are your imprudent wishes satisfied? What has your devouring
ambition and sterile curiosity brought you? Behold you!
captive and miserable, delivered by yourself into the power
of an unknown society, whose secrets you covet, and who for
the first punishment - of your audacity, have imprisoned you
in the bowels of the earth."
"You have heard our trial spoken of, but as our mysteries
are well guarded, you imagine, in your short-sighted wisdom,
that the Postulants were only submitted to vain illusions,
capable at the most of astonishing common minds, but
impossible to quell your spirit. You have not dreamed that,
master of your life and death, we could give the lie to that
dangerous security. I have only to give the sign to have you
Page 49
plunged living to the bottom of our subterranean caverns,
nourished on the bread of bitterness and drinking but the
waters of anguish till thy dying day. But our clemency is
greater than your sincerity, it only asks, in order to render
you free, your solemn oath to never reveal the least detail
of that which you have seen and heard this night. Will you
take the oath?"
The Postulant, warned by the low voice of one of the
Neocores, replied, "I swear it." The Hierophant then ordered
the Neocores to lead him to the foot of the alter, and there
made him kneel. Then he recited aloud and bid him repeat
after him, phrase by phrase, the following oath: "IN
PRESENCE of the seven genii who execute the Will of the
ineffable Being, eternal and infinite, I, (here the name of
the Postulant) , son of (here the name of the fathe~, born
(here the epoch of his birth and name of his native town
and country) , swear to be SILENT upon all I have seen and
heard, or shall see and hear, in the sanctuary of the priests
of the divine Wisdom.
If ever I betray my oath, I shall be worthy of having my
throat cut, my tongue and heart torn from me, and of being
buried in the sand of the sea that, forgotten of my kind,
its waves may roll over me."
"We are the witnesses of your word," added the Hierophant,
Page 50
"and if ever you perjure yourself, an invisible vengence
will attach itself to your steps; it will wait upon you in
every place, even on a throne, to compel you to submit to
the fall to which you have just vowed yourself. From this
hour you belong to the number of the disciples of wisdom;
you will bear among us the title of Zelator, until by some
great act, of obedience of abnegation of yourself, you have
.
merited to pass to a more elevated grade. ''
During these last words, two Neocores, each one carrying a
cup, came and placed themselves noiselessly on each side of
the alter; a third placed himself behind the Postulant in order
to soon untie his bandage. A little farther back, four Milan-
ophores (funeral officers), unfolded a great black veil.
"All the Magii," continued the Hierophant, ''owe me an
absolute submission. Swear then, in your turn, an equal
obedience."
The Postulant then took a second oath, "Take care", cried
the Hierophant, "if you have only sworn from the lips, we
can read the heart, and a lie among~ is punished by death."
The frightful noise of a tempest, produced by an ingenious
but invisible mechanism, rumbled in the depths of the pyramid.
Detonations of flaming naptha imitated the lightening. The
seven lamps of the vault were suddenly extinguished. The
crypt, only lighted by the pale fires, trembling from the
Page 51
Sphinx figures. During this artificial storm, the bandage
of the Postulant (detached by the Neocore) fell at his feet.
He saw in the fantastic light, all the Magii,-standing and
pointing swords at his breast. It was a magnificent
spectacle, but terrifying! "These swords," said the
Hierophant, "symbolize human justice, but that justice is
often fallible and tardy, and the fear that it inspires does
•
not arrest audacious hearts. We wish that heaven itself
guarantee the faith of this new initiate. You have sworn to
me an absolute obedience. You must prove your sincerity by
accepting a trial in which only the ALMIGHTY can preserve
you,-if HE thinks you worthy to live. 11
Here the Magii lowered the points of their swords, and the
Necores, carrying the cups, approached the Postulant. "Behold
these cups," pursued the Hierophant, "the drink that is in
one, is harmless,-in the other is a violent poison. I order
you to take one at hazard and empty it in~ swallow." If
the Postulant refused to obey, a new roaring of the thunder
announced that the initiation was broken. The four funeral
officers threw over him the black veil, drawing him to the
earth and rolling him in its folds, carried him away.
The man who has feared to sacrifice his life to a double
oath, is forever degraded! Shall he be permitted to return
to his countrymen and say to them, 11
I wished to be initiated
Page 52
into the mysteries of those famous Magii, before whom all
Egypt bows as if they were Demi-Gods, but they are only
rogues or fools, among whom none are admitted, unless they
escape poisoning by the greatest chance. Such a trial re-
volted me. They have chased me from them in contempt, but
I denounce them as monsters, worthy only of the horror of
nations! 11
No liberty was given to a man already proved feeble and
false to his oath, but the Magii did not immolate him. They
shut him during seven moons in a cavern of the pyramid;-with
a lamp, bread and some water, renewed each day by two silent
visitors.
Near him was placed a book of sentences containing the
duty of man toward the Supreme Being, mankind and himself.
The meditation of this book written by Hermes-Thoth,-to
serve as an elementary catechism to the initiate; offered
the captive an element of consolation of force and of hope.
He saw, under a veiled form, the possibility of rising from
his fall. After the expiration of seven moons, the two
cups were again presented to him. If, this time, he accepted
the trial, even though with trembling resignation, the magic
law was satisfied. But the initiate, given his liberty,
remained always a simple Zelator, and could never be admitted
to a more elevated grade.
Page 53
In case of refusal, the captivity was maintained in the
same condition for another seven moons; followed by a new
offer of the cups, and so on, until obedience or natural
death came to end this sad existence. When, on the contrary,
the trial of the two cups was courageously submitted to in
the crypts, in presence of all the assembled college (and
this occurred in Plato's initiation), the Hierophant hastened
.
to tell the candidate that he had run !lQ. peril, that the cups
had contained only pure wine, to which a little myrrh had
been added to lend to it a slight bitterness. After such a
strong tension of the physical and moral forces, repose
became indispensable, but this repose even (unknown to the
initiate) hid a last trial;-the only one that was really
dangerous to his life. The Neocores led him into a
neighboring hall of the sanctuary, ornamented with the
luxury of a royal nuptial chamber. Servants took his wet
clothing from him, rubbed him with perfumed essences,-then
RE-dressed him in a white linen robe, and brought before him
a table covered with exquisite viands and generous wine.
During this repast, (while invisible music softly followed
his imagination with amourous visions) the folds of a green
curtain, embroidered in myrtle branches, (color and plant
consecrated to Venus) slowly drew aside and showed a gallery
where groups of beautiful young women danced gracefully,
Page 54
their garlands of flowers about their lovely forms. They
were the daughters of the Magii, raised in the Sanctuary, and
consecrated to Isis until the day of marriage. These
seductive apparitions wore masks attached to their foreheads
by a circle of gold, in order that the initiate could not
recognize them later if he triumphed over this trial; but
they only had for a veil,- a short tunic spangled with
golden bees, a gauze scarf, and some flowers.
The music increased its magic, unknown perfumes filled the
air, intoxicating the senses of the initiate. The load-stone
of contemplation drew him silently on-step by step- toward
the magic of forms, eternal CIRCE, that imprisoned the human
reason in the shadows of the material world. Hardly had he
crossed the threshold of the gallery, when two of these
joyous dancers threw their garlands about him, thus enlacing
him in a chain of roses. Immediately the others disappeared
like a flight of frightened doves. The light, suddenly
lowered, no longer lent to the scene but a vapourous twi-
light, in which the two temptresses pursued their whirling
dance, shaking the flower garland, turn by turn, - as if to
provoke his choice.
If, by the least action, the imprudent initiate dared to
profane the purity of the mysteries, a Neocore (who had
glided behind him unperceived) would have struck him a mortal
Page 55
blow. If he rested, calm and unaffected, or if he broke the
chain of roses, a gesture of the Neocore dismissed the two
women,-and the Magii came in procession to congratulate
their new brother on having triumphed over the almost
superhuman trial, which had surprised his virtue without
making it vacillate.
"Worthy Zelator 11
, said the Hierophant, 11
magic is composed
•
of two elements, SCIENCE and FORCE. Without science, there
can be no complete force: without force of some kind, no one
can mount even the first steps of science. Know how to
suffer, in order to be impassible; know how to die, in
order to become immortal; know how to .!ill.Stain, in order to
OBtain.
Behold the three first secrets of the new life to which
we have initiated you by trial. Every Magus is called upon
to be the priest of FAITH, that is to say, confident of its
mysteries, possessors of its force. But there are few who
realize entirely this high destiny. Learn then, to dominate
your senses, in order to preserve the liberty of your soul!
It is the prologue to our sacred studies. The intuition of
G o D will be the crown, if you are indefatigable in
perseverance. Strong intelligences arrive with us at prophesy
and theurgy. The first of these powers (science) resuscitates
the past, penetrates the reasons of the present , and unveils
Pp.g~ 56
the future; the second power (force) creates works, similar
to those of G o D by the discovery, indefinitely p!:Q_-
gressive, of the secrets of universal life. You can mount
to the dignity of prophet and theurgist by seven years of
silent and solitary WORK, and by the gradual examination of
all branches of knowledge accessible to men. Pursue your
career of initiate as you have begun it, and the great Isis
•
will come to your aid.
But whether you accept a home with us in a perpetual
brotherhood, spending your time in studies and duties that
will devolve upon you, or return to your own country, to
teach the lessons of truth and wisdom; remember always your
oath, and in order that it may never be effaced from your
memory before remounting above ground, come and see with us
the doom reserved for the perjurer."
The procession of the Magii then resumed its march to
re-enter the sanctuary. Each member of the sacred college
took his place in the semi-circle. The Hierophant armed
himself with a sceptre and sword lying on the alter, and
extending his arms in a cross, cried out in the midst of the
general silence, "Brothers, what hour is it?" "The hour of
justice", the Magii replied with one voice. A solemn bell,
of which the prolonged echo issued from underground, slowly
sounded seven times. "Since it i..§. the hour of justice, let
Page 57
justice be done," replied the Hierophant. At the foot of the
alter, a trap of bronze lowered, plunging into a cavern from
which escaped a noise of chains, as if caused by a violent
struggle, then groans,-then the sound of a human voice,
uttering a frightful cry: then --then NOTHING. The cold
silence of the sepulcher!
"Thus perish perjurers", said the Hierophant, turning
toward the neophyte Zelator, "who were merely curious to
look at our work. "
The twelve Neocores then placed him in their midst. Six
preceded, six followed him, and all descended one by one
into the straight opening of the cavern. It was there that,
by the pale light of a sepulchral lamp, the neophyte
perceived the form of a Sphinx, which tore with its great
rending claws a human form extended under it.
At this horrible sight he trembled and nearly fainted, but
the Neocores surrounded and sustained him, -and as they
were reassuring him, the vision vanished. Let us hasten to
say that this was only a murder in effigy, executed by a
mechanical Sphinx, upon an artificial victim. It was the
last act of the initiatory drama, which was followed by a
religious banquet.
Plato lived, as I have said, thirteen years among the
Magii of Memphis, and in the city of the Sun. Many centuries
Page 58
before Plato, the child Moses, saved from the waters of the
Nile by Thermuthus, daughter of Pharaoh Amenophis, was also
raised by the Magii, - and drew from their secret teachings
the religious, political, and social ideas which were the
basis of the legislation of the Hebrews after their exodus
from Egypt. Thus the laws and rites of Magism passed in a
great part into the theocratic constitution, of which Moses
.
was the founder.
The sons of the Magii began their studies when about
fifteen years of age, and the complete instruction lasted
twenty-one years. This course embraced all the sciences;
natural History, Geology, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry,
Medicine, Surgery, Sculpture, Architecture, Music, and
Mechanics. After these applied sciences, the instruction
passed on to the study of the general history of peoples,
languages, and of foreign laws.
They were raised at last to the study of religious
science; which was divided into common and sacred Astrology,
Horoscopy, Symbolic writing, Philosophy of Justice and of
the Will, rites of the Temple, Prophecy, and Theurgy. Each
year graduated examinations were held. No physical trials
were submitted to the sons of the Magii, for education itself
was their initiation, and, bound to the Sacerdocy by the ties
of family, nourished in its traditions, and living in
Page 59
the midst of the sacred solemnities,- they learned their
sense and penetrated their spirit without effort. It was
not necessary to impose discretion upon them as an
inevitable dogma. It was in them because of their race,
of which they early showed themselves proud. It was the
crown of knowledge that guaranteed them the respect of the
people.
Depositors of the most transcendent knowledge, they applied
themselves unceasingly to enlarge their domain. It is the
ONLY human society of which the monumental works still re-
veal and prove to us, the existence of arts pushed to their
highest perfection.
We have seen that the stranger, after having conquered the
physical traits of his initiation, immediately received the
title of ZELATOR. If he wished to rise in the Hierarchy,
he had to pledge himself to pass twelve ~ years in the
school of the Magii, submitting to an austere regimen and
vowed to a rigorous solitude.
As he advanced in the paths of science, he was admitted to
the second grade, with the title of Theorist; then to the
third, with the title of Practiser; to the fourth as
Philosopher; to the fifth as minor Adept; to the sixth as
major Adept; to the seventh, as a free Adept; to the eighth
as MASTER of the Temple; to the ninth, as Magus of the
Page 60
Rose-Cross. But this last grade, corresponding to a complete
instruction, was only accessible to intelligences endowed
with an almost marvelous memory, because it included all the
lucidic sciences which religious law forbade to give in
writing. The Perfect Magus, then, must have been a walking
encyclopedia. Astrology, door of the occult world, alone
opened to him thousands of Arcana to which it was n~cessary
to apply immediately one of the seven keys of symbolism re-
vealed by Hermes Trismegistus. Only Magii of the ninth
degree had the right of governing the state and rendering
justice, when they were dethroned by the warrior class.
Their domination did not perish, for in the depths of the
sanctuaries, they still reigned through the power of their
knowledge and supernatural arts, and the kings of the sword
dared not undertake anything without consulting the Kings of
the prophetic art.
The spiritual power of these last grew because hidden!
THEY THUS IMPOSED THEIR ORACLES ON THE PRIDE OF THE MASTERS
OF THE WORLD.
End of an Egyptian Initiation.
Christian adds, that it has taken him a great deal of
laborious research to write the foregoing. Although founded
on the treatise of Iamblichus, he has dramatized and added
from other sources. Genevieve Stebbins Astley.
It is my firm conviction that this is indeed a most
marvelous work. I recommend that it be studied by my
Page 61
Masonic brethern. Edward Leon Bloom (nom-de-plume Edward
Coulou Craig.) My published works are "Autumn Leaves" and
lyrics to Franz Peter Schubert's "Unfinished Symphony ---
FINISHED." I also have accumulated over the years a con-
siderable volume of unpublished creative writing.
And now one final comment. All that is needed now to
make The Egyptian Initiation illumination more forceful is
colored pictures to illustrate the 22 Arcana. Perhaps some
Mason, some day, will do this. Such a man, however would
have to be an idealist and have enough money to have the
pictures painted. This would of course require republishing
the work.
~~ - - - -- - - -- - - -~- ~ - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Page 62
A PSYCHIC OCCURRENCE, a PREA.Iv1! or a REVELATION?
YOU be the judge and pronounce your silent verdict.
The time is 1:00 AM, November 3, 1964, Presidential
Election day. Before retiring about 10:10 PM I thought I
had put the last touch of completion in the focusing of
the various elements which have gone into the writing of
"AN EGYPTIAN INITIATION."
Shortly before 10:00 PM I wrote the acknowledgement and
dedication to this publication. About 7:00 PM on November
2nd I had hung a picture in my study. It is the 'spiritual'
picture of my brother-in-law, Mr. Fred G. Hunt II,- deceased
in 1946. He was in the real estate business and his business
slogan was "HUNT for REAL ESTATE". And just what are we all
hunting for? The TRUTH and HAPPINESS! Having found the
TRUTH, if we discipline our emotions we £:fill be happy. The
Tibetian mystics have a little saying for it and I quote:
"Though located in hell, you CAN be in heaven, if you know
HOW to go about it. 11
To return to the 'spiritual picture' above, the medium
who drew it with crayon had (after giving me an excellent
personal reading) asked me "Whom shall I draw a picture of?"
I replied, "Of my blood brother Joseph Coulou Bloom, deceased
in July of 1939."
In about 10 minutes he handed me the crayon picture. Now
the ONLY resemblance in the picture to my brother Joseph, was
a slight tinge of auburn hair and the fact that Joseph wore
a mustache. The mustache was liQ!. the style Joseph cultivated,
but oddly enough it was identical with the mustache which my
brother-in-law, Fred G. Hunt II, habitually wore.
The face is round, the eyes are a light blue, exactly the
shade of Fred's eyes. These eyes have a very definite
spiritual quietude and peacefulness. The mouth is full and
firm. The general appearance is one of optimism, and Fred
was in truth an optimist, so characteristic of Fred.
Neva, my wife, pooh-hoos this picture,--but I BELIEVE! It
is a fine combination of my blood brother Joseph, and my
brother-in-law Fred G. Hunt II. Oh Neva, my darling, if only
you too could but BELIEVE!
It is well known amongst mediums that discarnate entities
are very desirous of communicating with their loved ones.
My brother Joseph had a strong will, but he was wise and
learned in psychic matters. He was strong physically and
mentally. (All star high school tackle, East Denver High
School for two successive years - 1910 and 1911).
In this particular instance I can almost hear Joseph say
to Fred, "YOU communicate to Neva, my brother Edward will
Page 63
KNOW that I was there also." And so this crayon portrait is
a beautiful combination of two spirits, Joseph and Fred.
Between midnight and 1:00 AM, on November 3rd I had a
wonderful dream. I must write it down before going back
to sleep. And this is the dream: * * A spiritual guide
was conducting me through the phantasmagoria of my approach-
ing death. Although the attitude on my part was one of calm-
ness and detachment, I felt that the scenes shown to me were
those I shall witness just before I pass on to my life after
so-called death. I TRUSTED MY GUIDE!
It is quite important to tell you that the fear evoking
pictograms described in THE EGYPTIAN INITIATION w~re altered.
With each rapidly moving pictogram I was assured and
Reassured by my guide. Emotionally I was possessed of a
calm but exalted courage. I HAD NO FEAR!
I knew, in a deeply sub-conscious manner, that my guide
had so skillfully removed the snares of fear that I was able
to remain calm and quiet, even blissfully §£. If this be
a prelude to so-called death, then how wonderful my life
after passing on to a greater realm will be!
AH DEATH, WHERE IS THY STING? THY VICTORY IS SWALLOWED
UP AS THE OCEAN WAVE SWALLOWS UP A TINY CORK. BUT THE
CORK ALWAYS REMAINS ON '.!'..Qg_. (SOMETIMES VISIBLE, SOMETIMES
INVISIBLE.)
And so shall it be, so mote it ever be, when I put out to
sea on this last glorious voyage. If it be redundant, so
let it be redundant,-but again I must emphasize that I had
NO FEAR. A calm, a blissful peace, possessed me, but still
I knew that I was not alone. THERE WAS NO PAIN WHATSOEVER!
"Oh, let there be no moaning at the bar when
I put out to sea." (Lord Alfred Tennyson)
Oh let there be only this little prayer which I hope will
seep into the hearts and minds of my near and dear ones, and
also into you, my dear readers.
It is altogether fitting (and Thank G O D , rather
unconventional) that the prayer which follows be read at my
very unconventional funeral. May this prayer become an
integral part of you too.
This prayer, written on September 16, 1964, is the FIRST
TIME that I am very certain that the thoughts came through
my typewriter in the form of automatic or spiritual writing.
Page 64
These thoughts came smoothly; no hesitation, no strain or
pain;-the thoughts just flowed like warm honey.
A PRAYER
Keep us 0 Lord from pettiness; Let us be large in thought,
in word and deed. Let us be done with fault finding and
leave off self-seeking. May we put away all pretense and
meet each other face to face, without self-pity and without
prejudice. May we NEVER BE HASTY IN JUDGMENT, and always
generous. Teach us to put into action our better impulses,
straight-forward and unafraid .. Let us take time f~r the
important things and to the trivia of life relegate less
time. Make us grow calm, gentle, serene. Grant that we
fully realize that it is the LITTLE THINGS THAT CREATE
DIFFERENCES, and that in the BIG THINGS WE ARE AS ONE.
And may we strive to touch and know the great common heart
of us all. o Lord G o D , let us not forget to be kind.
Ahmen!
