{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1963__probert___the_magic_bag.pdf","mytitle":"The Magic Bag","mylang":"de"}
THE MAGIC BAG
BY
MARK PROBERT
THE MAGIC BAG
A Manuscript Dictated Clairaudiently
to Mark Probert
by Members of the Inner Circle
The Inner Circle Kethra E’Da Foundation, Inc.
A non-profit Organization
931 26th St., San Diego, Calif.
P. O. Box 1722, San Diego, Calif. 92112
Copyright 1963
by
The Inner Circle
Kethra E’Da Foundation, Ine.
Printed in U.S.A.
MARK AND IRENE PROBERT
iii
Table of Contents
FOREWORD, Lingford_____________ ________ ___________ XI
NOTE CONCERNING THE MARK PROBERT
MEDIUMSHIP, Layne.................................................. XV
SPEAKING OF MYSELF, Probert_______ ___ XIX
FROM ARCHETYPE TO PLURALITY, Yada ................... 1
CREATION, Yada di Shi’ite_______________ 5
CREATION CONTINUED, Tramaliki _
_____ ____________ 19
LANGUAGES AND MAN, Tramaliki ______ ____________ 26
DEATH AND REINCARNATION, Tramaliki ....................... 31
SLEEP, PROJECTION, AND DEATH, Casi ____________ 51
THE GROUP SOUL, Kay Ting__ ______________________ 69
MEDITATION, Lo Sun Yat_______________ ____________ 77
iv
MAN ON THE PHYSICAL PLANE, Lo Sun Yat________ 80
MAN THE SEEKER AND
MAN THE CREATOR, Natalli _______ _____________ 85
ATMAN PLUS ATOM EQUALS ADAM, Natalli................... 88
THE NATURE OF THE COSMOS, Natalli ............. 91
TIME, SPACE AND CONSCIOUSNESS, Arakashi ...............107
MIND FORCE, Arakashi _
___ _
_______
___ _______ _______ 111
MATERIAL VIA THOUGHT, Arakashi _____ __ _
____ .116
THE EVOLUTION OF FORM AND THE
EVER-BECOMING OF MIND, Nikkioi ...... 125
EARTH’S AGE AND THE ETHER1ANS, Luntz .................147
THE HUMAN PERSONALITY, Luntz__________________ 151
v
We of the Inner Circle dedicate these writings
to all those who earnestly seek the
Light W i t h i n
*
*
*
“The tenets of our Organization are: That man is born
in love and is a free agent; that knowledge is cosmic
honey and man should not only be permitted to gather
this honey, but should be aided and abetted in doing so.”
Yada di Shi’ite
PREFACE
To all those who seek the L i g h t ;
We of the Inner Circle feel it indispensable for you to know that
all that is written within these pages are not put forth with the
thought that they should be taken as indisputable facts or ultimate
truths but merely as aspects of truth as seen front our particular
point of Observation. All of us subscribe to the doctrine of vari-
ability, and if we so confess our beliefs we must adhere to them,
at least until such time as we may find something that will seem
closer to the truth.
In respect to all such writings as these, we think it understandable
that much must be expressed in allegory. The phenomenon of life
does not at any time lend itself to unchangeable conditions. We
think it takes no great amount of intelligence to see that if the law
of change governs a Segment of the universe it must be the govern-
ing factor of the universe as a whole. As we abhor dogma in
others, let us pray that we ourselves do not fall into its binding
meshes.
The Inner Circle Kethra E’Da
vii
LAO-TSE
viii
THE CONTROL Lao-Tse EXPLAINS
THE TITLE OF THIS BOOK
“The Magie Bag”—What do we mean by this? What is the
“bag”? The bag is consciousness—and in this bag is all. Now, a
bag appears to have two sides, an inner and outer, but it does not
really. For if there were an actual outer and inner the bag could
not be turned inside out because there would be no interrelation­
ship between them, which means they would be two separate
things. When we enter into the physical-chemical world, we are
turning the bag inside out; and when we return to other States of
consciousness apart from the physical, we are turning it back again.
However, the belief of the going in and out of consciousness is but
maya, illusion, for in truth we are the bag and all that is in it!
MARTIN LATTIMORE LINGFORD
x
FOREWORD
When I dictated the Foreword for The Magie Bag in 1950,
feeling almost certain that there was to be another global conflict,
I expressed by feelings accordingly. However, Time, the great
prover of all things, has shown that I erred in my judgment; but
perhaps I can console myself by asserting the obvious; that even
though the nations of the world have failed as yet in their efforts
to create a shooting war, it can hardly be denied that they will
have to talk themselves to death to avoid it. And as it has often
been said that words can be more deadly than bullets, it seems
that man has no choice about dying, but only in the way he is to
die. The word “death,” as many of you already know, does not
mean dissolution of the body only—it also means being cut off
from truth, and this is a far worse condition for the human being
than physical death.
Now, there is a truth that says, “Man is born with the seed of
his own destruction within him, and until he becomes consciously
aware of the vaster side of himself, he will continue to sow and
reap the fruits of that seed.” The basic nature of this “seed” is
called “fear of the unknown.”
As far as the physical world is concerned, the first manifesta-
tion of fear of the unknown is feit in the psyche at birth and is
called birth trauma. The fact of the matter is that fear, or some-
thing very closely related to it, is set up in the psyche of all living
things when any one of those things is about to make a move from
a point with which it is familiär to one with which it is not. If
we accept all this as being true, then we must suppose that fear
is one of the natural properties of the psyche, from amoeba to man.
Man, on the other hand, can be so illuminated regarding the
nature of his own being that fear, along with the other elements
that belong to the lower emotional psyche-self, is washed out.
This “washing out” process is called conscious Self-development.
I preface the word “Self-development” with the word “conscious”
because this development is an activity of the highest order and can
only be effective when practiced with conscious attention, not only
upon what one is doing but upon the reason and purpose of so
doing.
Self-development is an effort to get conscious control over the
lower emotional seif. But why would one want to get control over
the lower emotional seif? The answer to this is that one has lived
with it for a given period and has suddenly discovered it to be an
ass, a Schizophrenie paranoid ass, the real imp of darkness which
creates raging storms in the minds of men which drive them to
self-destruction.
As often as not, when one comes suddenly upon the realization
of the ass within himself, it so appalls him that he feels compelled
to rid himself of it in a hurry. This urgent sense of the need for
haste moves him—and I suspect, after a time, rather drearily—
into numerous fads and fetishes, such as severe diets, abstaining
from sex and meat, and no doubt the practicing of certain forms
of yoga breath. Now, while all these things have their own merits
and are very useful in their time and place, they will do little
toward quieting down the ass within us where we can get it under
our conscious control.
Teachers in the past, at least some of them, instructed their
students of Life that if they hoped to be free from the torments of
physical living it would be necessary for them to kill the ego seif.
I fear, however, that to kill the ego makes one into a stoic. A
stoic is a person who is totally indifferent to either pain or pleasure
and is equally lacking in the qualities called love and compassion
and is, therefore, a zombi or a living dead person.
Love and compassion are things that make the difference be-
tween the beast or the human in us. While there is, as I’ve tried
to make clear, a great necessity for the individual to get conscious
control of that part of the ego called the lower emotion seif, I
have done so only because I know that in the accomplishment of
this very difficult task we will be better humans. By “better” I
mean saner.
The statistics of psychiatry show that while larger masses of
people, especially those in the Western half of the world, are suf-
fering less from physical diseases, mental ailments are growing at
an alarming pace. It is, of course, unnecessary to study the merci-
less charts of statistics to assure one’s seif of the truth regarding
the mental state of the human race for the information is brought
direetly into our homes via news tabloids, radio, and television.
But it is practically useless for one to be made aware that he is
mentally ill if he still does not know what is causing his illness.
Now, in seeking causes for the many woes that beset the human
race, both individually and in mass, we must accept the fact that
man’s intrinsic nature is mental and, as such, it is a total stranger
to the condition called the physical-chemical world. While this
theory may seem odd to those of us who have been taught that the
physical-chemical world is a creation of the Mental Self, we will
see that there is nothing odd about it when we realize that it was,
in the beginning, a completely unconscious creation. Then, slowly,
through the process of what is called evolution, it became a con-
scious creation by forming a sensory organism to function through.
At the moment the Mental Self became aware of its dream called
creation, It lost awareness that It was the Dreamer and so plunged
itself into a world of suffering.
The conscious seif is the sensory emotional seif and is, there-
fore, the ass that is constantly braying to high heaven that it is
being imposed upon, but it can do no other than this until some
Light from The Creator, the Unconscious Self, seeps through to
inform it: “You are but a dream and you will vanish as you waken
in Me!”
In the Christian Bible, the man Jesus is at times depicted as
riding a donkey, or ass. This is a symbol of the Higher Self hav-
ing conscious control over the lower seif; the ass represents the
Jesus, the ego seif, over which the Christ Consciousness has control.
Again, we find the man called Jesus being murdered on a cross,
and it is believed by the ass in us that he is suffering this horror to
save us from what we have been taught to think of as our “sins” so
the ass weeps with one eye in pretended sorrow over what it thinks
is happening and gloats with the other in masochistic satisfaction
of the pain that someone eise is suffering in its stead. However,
the crucifixion is a symbol of the lower emotional seif waking from
its material dream, the cross, to its true Self, the Christ.
Now as true as the above is, it is not going to prove of much
value to the individual should he accept these concepts merely as
intellectual data, nor can he use it as grist for his reasoning mind,
for the reason that his reasoning mind is simply a part of the
material seif which has been conditioned by its material surround-
xiii
ings and, therefore, has no way of reasoning with anything existing
outside of that area of comprehension.
There are ways for man to reach out beyond this material
dream, and most of us are doing it a great deal of the time; but
the trouble is that it is largely an unconscious form of activity, and
so we are not aware of it. The lower seif is in a constant state of
wishing, hoping and praying for one thing or another. This is one
of the “ways” of reaching out beyond the material dream, but it
is not a very good way, first, because we are not as a rule aware of
what we are doing, and second, because the lower seif is so laden
with shame and guilt that it no more than makes a wish for some-
thing that it promptly sets up a block against having it by feelings
of unworthiness.
The Unconscious, having no way of arguing against the sug-
gestions fed to it by the conscious or lower seif, simply gives back
in kind what it was given. This means that if our desires are of a
positive nature and untainted with fears and uncertainties, they will
be fulfilled, perhaps not as promptly as one may have expected,
nor in the exact männer, but it will be made manifest. Of this you
can be certain!
There are many other ways of reaching into the more expan­
sive side of ourselves than the ones mentioned above. Some of
these ways are called clairvoyance, clairaudience, psychic pro-
jection, and a condition which we call “mental expansion.” The
latter, while closely related to psychic projection, I feel is safer to
practice, especially for the beginner; the safety of it lies in the fact
that no secondary body is created as a vehicle in which to move
about. The trouble with the mind’s effort to create bodies is that
it also automatically creates the need for protection of them.
This, of course, adds up to a tremendous lot of distraction for the
mind that created the body, thus curtailing its activities of seeking
to know its Self.
Now, as much as I would like to go into these subjects at
greater length, it would not be practical to do so here, for, apart
from the limitations of the space given me, several of the other
members of the Inner Circle touch upon these subjects in one way
or another and in a männer which I hope will be both satisfying
and educational to you the reader.
Martin Lattimore Lingford
xiv
NOTE CONCERNING THE
MARK PROBERT MEDIUMSHIP
The seances referred to in the preceding autobiographical note
by Mark Probert were begun in September 1945, in San Diego,
and are still being carried on at this writing (July 1962) but, as
may be expected with the aid of time and experience, they have
grown in moral stature and have now achieved almost world-wide
attention.
A note concerning the development of this mediumship may
be of interest. At first, as Mark has mentioned in the chapter
“Speaking of Myself,” he would often talk for several minutes
during his sleep and always in foreign languages and this xeno-
glossy, or “gift of tongues,” carried over into the seance work so
that it was difficult for some time to get Communications in English.
The Controls have since explained that this had been permitted
by them as a means of conditioning the organism so that, after
their Observation of how the body reacted to the use of it by en-
tities other than those of the Inner Circle members, they could
use it intelligently when the proper time came.
For some time after the first experimental seance, it was the
custom of some of the Controls to begin speaking in the language
most familiär to them for a few minutes before commencing to
talk in English, but of late all of them, with the exception of the
one calling himself, “Yada di Shi’ite,” prefer using the English
language as best they can instead of resorting to their native
tongues.
The principal Controls have not shown themselves to be sug-
gestible in any way, and there is nothing to indicate that they are
not exactly what they seem to be: normal and fully integrated
human personalities. They welcome free discussions and will de-
liberate at length if it seems to serve a useful purpose.
The seances have been attended from time to time by psy-
chologists, hypnotists, medical men, physicists, and other workers
in the Sciences, and the Controls have shown themselves abun-
dantly capable of holding their own in discussions with them.
Nearly all of such conversations have been outside the medium’s
xv
scope of education, vocabulary, and normal interests.
Finally, it should be noted that the Controls specifically dis-
claim any pretense to omniscience—“You will get nothing but
opinions on all the planes.”—and are very cautious and reserved
in making predictions, saying in effect, “We have more means of
information than you do, and can see a little further and more
clearly, but we are always subject to error from unforseen de-
cisions on your plane as well as by other natural limitations.”
All sittings are conducted in full daylight or in good artificial
light, without formalities or any kind of religious ceremony. Some
of them are held in private homes. Where the number of people
in attendance is limited there is naturally a freer exchange of ideas
on occult and scientific subjects, than is possible where people
gather by the hundreds, as in large public halls.
In these sessions, the seeker for the sensational doubtless
would be disappointed at the lack of what he may think of as the
stränge and the abnormal. The people simply sit and talk quietly
and Mark, more often than not, may be talking and laughing with
the group when one of the Controls will take him over and
entrance, or put to sleep his conscious mind, and begin to speak
through his lips. Sometimes the Controlling Entity may begin by
using a topic that someone in the group had been discussing, or
he may start with a subject of his own. He may talk from an
hour to an hour and a half and then ask if there is anyone in the
group who would like to ask questions regarding the things that
he had been talking about; if not, then anyone is free to ask ques­
tions about any subject desired. These sessions generally last for
two and a half hours, but at certain private sessions where scientific
subjects have been discussed they have lasted for as much as five
hours, with Mark in trance most of that time.
In the early days of the work, five to nine Controls would
come through at a session, but it was not long before they de-
cided that there was nothing to be gained by so many of them
using Mark’s body at one time and that, if continued, it might
prove to be detrimental to his own personality. So they cut the
number to two and never more than three at a session. As a rule,
at the end of sitting, Mark feels rested and refreshed, and the
work seems to have greatly benefited his general health.
xvi
What I have been saying refers to the seances. But it should
be clearly understood that the manuscript of this book was not
received in that way, with the medium in trance. This manuscript
was dictated to Mark through his gift of clairaudience. If or when
a Communicator (not Control in this case) wants to say something
he begins to talk, and Mark “hears” the words in much the same
männer as he hears any of the normal physical sounds, only in
cases of this kind, the auditory system seems to be attuned to
octaves of sound that is beyond the normal ränge of the human ear.
These Communicators are no respectors of places regarding
the dictating of the material for this book; they have started their
dictations on trains or buses, in restaurants or anywhere eise where
they happened to find Mark. However, if he was not prepared to
take their dictations he would simply ask them to return when he
would be in a better position to do so. (I think it should be noted
here that these Invisibles have never imposed themselves upon
Mark at any time and have been entirely cooperative with anyone
showing any real interest in them and in their efforts with man
here on earth.) In time, Mark decided to carry a pencil and
looseleaf notebook, and, conditions permitting, he gladly took down
what the Communicators had to say wherever he happened to be.
These dictations may have lasted any time from a few minutes to
an hour or so, and then, for no apparent reason, the Communi­
cators may have become silent for weeks or months on end and
suddenly come back to pick up the discourse just where they left
off.
Apparently one or another of these unseen friends is with
Mark constantly, and they make references in his words and
actions as they have observed them. In fact, they seem to know
innumerable details of the lives of all of us who are closely asso-
ciated with his mediumship. A casual complaint of mine about
living “in a goldfish bowl universe” caused them some amusement.
“Quite right,” they said, “but why should anyone want to hide any-
thing? We have all done and said exactly the same sort of things.”
A word about the organization of the material in this book—
if it can be said to be “organized.” On the whole, we have pre-
sented the Communications in the sequence in which they were
given. That means that each Communicator talks on his own
theme, and whether it has anything to do with the preceding sub-
xvii
ject or not is of small concern to him. To try to organize this
material into a systematic treatment of different subjects would be
very difficult, and would fail, moreover, in giving a true picture
of the whole remarkable process. And we hope the reader will
realize also that impromptu talks when set down on paper often
lack literary virtues. The verbiage is not always pruned and re-
fined and clarified in good textbook style.
This casual and conversational männer is, of course, more
manifest in the hundreds of pages of the Seance Reports and early
record of meetings held in which the conversations of almost all of
the main group of Controls as well as numerous other beings have
been transcribed; it is also present in the clairaudient dictation of
this manuscript of The Magie Bag, as the critic of literary form will
easily discover.
We close this note with a brief quotation from Nandor Fordor’s
Encyclopedia of Psychic Science, in his article on Mediumship:
“Agreement is now nearly general that mediumship is not patho-
logical. It is not a development of certain abnormal States like
hysteria. Confusion arises from the fact that supernormal phe-
nomena use the same channels of manifestation as abnormal phe-
nomena. The latter are degenerative, the former are developmental
and show the promise of powers as yet unknown.
“Floumoy says, ‘It is far from being demonstrated that me­
diumship is pathological; it is abnormal in the sense of being rare,
but rarity is not morbidity. The dominant view among savants
is that it is a superior, healthy, and advantageous faculty, not a
pathological parody or morbid caricature.’ Dr. Guiseppe Ven-
zano says that ‘mediumship absolutely excludes the idea of mor­
bidity.’
“The question of the medium’s intelligence has nothing to do
with the psychic powers. But it may influence the power of the
communicators to convey clear ideas . . . Mediumship is a delicate
gift and its voluntary development requires great care and under-
standing. . .”
MEADE LAYNE
San Diego, California
xviii
SPEAKING OF MYSELF
by
Mark Probert
I was born in Bayonne, New Jersey, February 1907, and went
to school there as a boy. When I was eleven years old my mother
passed away. A few months later, my father entered my younger
brother and I in a private school near Hastings, New York. At
the age of fifteen I had managed by much effort to get to the sixth
grade.
Realizing I was playing a losing game with the “R’s,” I ran
away and joined the Merchant Marines. The next two years of
my life were ones of excitement and adventure and, I may add, a
great deal of hard work. My last sea voyage was on the S. S.
Manchuria out of New York via the Panama Canal to the West
Coast. I left the ship when we docked here in San Diego.
It was now February, 1924. I tried my hand at many things
through the years, as some men are most likely to do when they
do not have the foggiest notion of what to do with their lives.
This is called drifting. I thought it would be sort of romantic to
be a jockey but it did not take me long to discover I would never
make another Earl Sande. It seemed that the horse and I were
never able to make up our minds that, if any races were to be run,
jockey and horse must be moving together at the same time and
in the same direction. So I gave up this sport of kings and I am
sure my horse was as tickled as I was about my quitting.
I then turned my efforts to being a bellman and worked in
several of our local hotels. After about live years of hotel work I
took dancing lessons and, having a fairly good voice, I went into
vaudeville as a song and dance man. I continued in show work
until “talking” pictures came in and subsequently killed vaudeville.
In the fall of 1939, I went to work for the Visual Education
Department of the San Diego County schools. This particular
department was housed in one of the many picturesque stucco
buildings in beautiful Balboa Park. On the morning that I was
to appear at my new job, I set out an hour earlier than was neces-
xix
r
sary so that I could wander leisurely through the park and enjoy
some of the peace and tranquility that such a place has to offer in
the early hours of the morning. 1 was almost at my destination
when I came upon a small wooden bridge spanning a narrow
canyon. The canyon was a jungle of ferns and palm trees.
As I stepped upon the bridge, I became aware of a young
auburn-haired woman Standing at about the middle of the bridge.
She was leaning against the rails, looking down into the canyon.
As I came abreast of her she turned her head and looked at me.
Being a friendly sort of person who has never met a stranger, I
gave her a smile and a cheerful good morning. We chatted for a
few minutes on the enchanting beauty of our surroundings and on
how wonderful it was just to be alive! Then she excused herseif
and went on across the bridge, moving in the same direction in
which I would be going shortly.
It never occurred to me that I would ever meet the pretty
auburn-haired woman again, but, when I walked into the Visual
Education Department a half hour later, there she was sitting be-
hind one of two railed-in desks, and, as luck or Divine Providence
would have it—the reader may take his choice—I was assigned the
other one. Her name was Irene and I was to work under her
direction.
The next thing I knew she presented me with a stack of pic-
ture cards on historical landmarks and told me I was to letter in
the names and dates of these places on the backs of the cards. I
protested that I was not a letter artist but a painter of pictures. She
then assured me that I would get to paint all I wanted later on, but
that the cards needed lettering now; so, I went ahead with the
project.
I had been working steadily for about fifteen minutes when I
feit my attention veering from the cards towards Irene. I turned
my head and looked at her, hoping as I did so that she would be
looking at me but I feit somewhat let down to discover that her
mind was entirely preoccupied with her work. Then, suddenly, I
became aware of a shadowy figure of a man standing directly be-
hind Irene’s chair and, while he was transparent or “shadowy,” he
had enough substance to him so that I could see in good detail
the ruddy complexion of his face and all the rest of him.
xx
He was looking down on Irene’s head with a gentle smile on
his lips and what I took to be a great deal of affection in his eyes.
He had both of his strong-looking hands resting on Irene’s shoul-
ders. Then, even as I watched him, he vanished.
Knowing that I was leaving myself open to possible ridicule,
I told her what I had seen and described the man to her. She
listened to me with what seemed to be more interest than surprise
or doubt. Then she said in a matter of fact way, “That descrip-
tion fits my father who passed away a short time ago.” Of course
we did not know it then, but this experience was to be the first of
a great many Steps we would take together into the world of the
unknown.
I think that this is as good a place as any to state that the
above experience was by no means my first encounter with the
world of the psyche. Indeed, as I look back through the years I
can recall but a few of them in which I did not have at least one
experience of a psychic nature. I am now in the process of putting
these experiences into another book form which I hope to have
published in some near future.
Irene and I were married in Yuma, Arizona, on July 4 ,1942.
About a month later she informed me one morning that I “talked”
a great deal in my sleep. When I asked her what I talked about
she said she did not know because I seemed to speak in foreign
languages. This information did not surprise me because I had
been accused of it several times in past years, once by a local
physician and surgeon who had spent many years in India. He
had authored several books on Hindu philosophy. The incident
occurred in February of 1935. The doctor, upon learning that I
could operate a typewriter, had asked me if I would put a hand-
written manuscript he had but recently completed into typewritten
form. After I warned him that I was by no means a Professional
typist but would be pleased to type it, he suggested that we go to
his cabin in the mountains.
It was quite cold when we arrived at the cabin so the doctor
set a fire going in the fireplace, then he went and stretched himself
out on a couch and I sat down and started to work on his manu­
script. The subject matter dealt with the Yoga practice of rythmic
breathing. I had been working about two hours when the doctor
xxi
suggested that I rest a while. Having nothing eise to do I got up
and going over to the fireplace, sat down in a large fan-back
wicker chair and almost promptly feil asleep.
The next thing I knew the doctor was shaking me awake and
talking to me in a very stränge tongue. On assuring him that I
had no understanding of the language he was speaking, he in-
formed me it was a Hindustani dialect and went on to say I had
been talking it quite fluently in my sleep and had been giving him
some constructive remarks on his manuscript. Anyway, to shorten
a very lengthy story, my “sleep talking” went on for about ten to
fifteen minutes almost every night for the next three years, but I
could find no one who could shed any light on its cause or purpose.
Then we met a man by the name of N. Meade Layne who had
an excellent academic background. He had been a teacher at the
University of Southern California and several other universities
and had been a department head at Wesleyan, Illinois, and at
Southern College, Florida. Quite apart from his academic training,
he had considerable interest and knowledge in the fields of meta-
physical and occult laws.
I spent two hours with Mr. Layne, in which time he quizzed
me on a number of things including the state of my physical and
emotional health. Then he asked me if I had ever had any ex-
periences with psychic phenomena. I told him I had and related
a number of them to him. He listened with what I thought was a
great deal of patience and then said, “You may be what is called
a trance medium. Your Statement that you talk in foreign lan-
guages in your sleep seems to indicate that discamate beings may
be taking control of you during your sleeping hours.” Mr. Layne
suggested he would be glad to hold some experimental seances
with Irene and me if we so desired. So it was that we held our
first seance in September of 1945. The first thing Mr. Layne did
when he got to our home was to have me sit at a small card table
then, placing Irene on the right of me, he sat facing me and at the
same time he turned off the light, plunging the room into darkness.
After a few moments of silence Mr. Layne said, “All we can
do now is to relax ourselves and wait; then, providing the condi-
tions in the room are suitable to the ‘beings’ on the other side of
life, they may give us some sign of recognition.” Then he said to
xxii
me, “Mark, if your sleep talking is actually caused by discarnate
Personalities, it is likely they will try to entrance you.”
The idea of suddenly losing consciousness was a little unnerv-
ing and I was about to express my feelings of uneasiness when I
was struck with a wave of dizziness that nearly rolled me off my
chair. Then the dizzy spell passed, followed by what I can only
describe as elation. But what tremendous elation it was! Undu-
lating waves of chills ran up my body from ankles to solar plexus
to head. But they were not the kind of chills one experiences
from being cold but rather like those we get when listening to
exceptionally beautiful music or while observing an unusual sun-
set or sunrise.
How long I stayed in this state of ecstasy I do not know, but
when it left me and I was awake again, Mr. Layne and Irene told
me I had been in what seemed to be a deep state of trance for
approximately forty-five minutes and that a voice, quite unlike my
own, had spoken to them.
The voice had introduced itself by the name of Martin Lata-
more Lingford. He said he had been a showman and that he had
lived in New York some forty years ago. Then he went on to say
that there were fifteen others besides himself who had formed a
band around me on the inner planes and that each one of them in
turn would come and introduce himself as time went on. He said
they had spent many years conditioning my brain and body so
they could use me to communicate through with the least possible
harm to my physical and mental seif.
It seems then that Irene asked the personality called “Ling­
ford” if my sleep talking (always in foreign tongues) was part of
the “conditioning” program, to which he replied that it was. “How-
ever,” he continued, “none of the members of the group to which
I belong have spoken through him during his hours of sleep but
we have caused others to work through his brain and body as
experimental units, while we stood by making careful observation
on the effects they made on your husband’s general physical and
mental make-up.”
When Irene asked why they had let only foreign speaking
persons use me, Lingford said, “We were not ready for you to
know what was going on, and the only way we could avoid your
xxiii
knowing and still continue the experiments was to use those who
had no knowledge of the English language, and as neither you nor
Mark comprehend any of the foreign tongues it made the Situation,
while baffling to you, truly ideal for us!” After this Statement,
Lingford said good night and left, and I became awake.
For almost three years thereafter, we held private seances once
a week with Mr. Layne and occasionally a few of our close friends
were invited in. By the end of the first year, almost all of the
members of the group on the “Inner Planes” that Lingford had
mentioned at the opening session had come through and intro-
duced themselves, giving brief accounts as to who and what they
had been on earth, but most important of all, they gave us some
detailed information regarding the nature of the work which they
hoped to do through me during the coming years.
They had not only chosen Irene to be my wife but to be their
personal guide and assistant in the work. (And I’d like to say
here that she has been much more than that, both to the wonder-
ful beings we have learned to call our “teachers” and to myself
through the fifteen years that this work has been in progress.)
They also instructed us that the work was to be almost entirely
of an educational nature and that we must not expect much from
them in the way of personal matters.
Not having a tape recorder in the early years of the work, a
good friend of ours by the name of Mrs. Harriet Foster who was
an expert stenographer attended the seances and recorded ver-
batim the talks given by the “Teachers” in shorthand. Later, Mr.
Layne published these in a little booklet called the “Round Robin,”
and then, at a later time they were printed up in seperate booklets
and called “The Mark Probert Seance Reports.” These writings
went out to hundreds and thousands of people in the United States
and many other parts of the world.
In order to further the work, the teachers suggested that the
time had come to open the meetings to all those who desired to
attend. Observing the growing interest in the type of work they
were endeavoring to do, the members of the Inner Circle (the new
name the Teachers chose for their group) also suggested we start
taking the work to the people in the form of lecture tours. It was
at this time that they decided to dictate a book to me clairaudiently.
xxiv
They entitled the book The Magie Bag. This title is explained
elsewhere in these pages by the Teacher Lao-Tse.
It took five years for the Inner Circle to dictate the contents
of The Magie Bag to me, but in actual writing time I am sure it
was much less than that, for the dictation was given periodically.
Then one night in 1947, the year they started to dictate the
book to me, five of my Teachers suddenly appeared in the living
room of my apartment. That I was “seeing” them clairvoyantly
did nothing to lessen my sense of fright, and had they not some-
how taken a hold of me mentally I would have bolted out my front
door and perhaps without opening it! Anyway they quieted me
down by assuring me that they were some of the members of the
Inner Circle and so had no reason to fear them. Then they said
that their only purpose in showing themselves to me was to have
me paint portraits of them.
I made pencil sketches of the five and they left, saying they
would return as time permitted to have me finish the portraits in
oils. Some of these portraits have been photographed and incor­
porated in The Magie Bag along with some others that I painted at
a later date.
In Order to publish and disseminate the teachings of the Inner
Circle, we formed an Organization called the “Kethra E’Da Foun­
dation.” Kethra E’Da means “Teachers of Light.” The Organiza­
tion was founded July 6, 1956, and is a non-profit educational
foundation.
xxv
E YADA DI SHI’ ITE
This personality was born in the city of Kaoti (City of Temples)
in a civilization called Yuga (Vast Body), or Yu. This civiliza-
tion consisted of 180 million people and existed a half million
years ago. It was located in the Himalayan Mountains. He was
taken from his mother as a baby and raised in the temples, to
become a Kata (Priest) and later High Priest or Yada. The word
really means “Spirit Life”: He was therefore one of the heads of
a mystical order called “Shi’ Ite.”
The “Yu” civilization had been founded by a man named Na
Sep Ni Ha, meaning the seventh son of a family named “Ha.”
E Yada was killed in a violent quake that completely destroyed
the civilization along with eighty million of its inhabitants. E Yada
was about thirty-four when he died and the “Yu” civilization one
thousand and twenty-four when it died.
xxvi
FROM ARCHETYPE TO
PLURALITY
Yada di Shi’ite:
When Man first reached the final state of his physical growth,
he was a beautiful and perfect being of high intelligence. Far
greater was his state of wisdom and intellect than it is today, and
exceedingly more perfect his body; he built for himself great and
wonderful civilizations that were patterned after the mighty civ-
ilization from which he came—the Etheric.
Take note of the massiveness of almost all ancient civilizations
—the endless and intricate carvings, the paintings and general de-
signs on almost all things they possessed. You call these carvings,
paintings, and designs “religious” and feel that most of them are
designs or the manifestations of a superstitious trend of mind, but
this is far from the truth. Most of these carvings and paintings
and designs are symbolic talk and are therefore remembrances of
the human race when the original language was entirely symbolic.
No words were uttered—all conversations were carried on by
mental communication, where a mental picture of a thing or things
was projected. The symbol language is the ultimate in perfection,
for there is no misunderstanding in what is being said, and there­
fore there is no necessity to make explanations about things.
Many of these earliest of civilizations understood and used
electricity, had full knowledge of atomic power and the use of
high-frequency sound waves, and knew the art of levitation as well
as the law of mutation in matter. The hardening of copper, for
instance, was first brought about by the knowledge of this lost
art of mutation. Certain kinds of corrosive acids and shocks of
high-powered electricity brought about almost instant changes in
metals. In fact, they knew of all your modern scientific ap-
proaches to life and many that you do not know of as yet.
Drugs as you know them in your present era were known,
but not applied to the physical body as curative agents, for they
were considered a deadly poison that would eventually bring on
a worse condition than the ailment suffered. If the ailment was
1
considered a serious one, the patient was placed under a somnol-
istic hypnotic state and there told to adjust the condition of his
body to its normal state. Sometimes this hypnotic treatment went
on for days but most often a few hours of it was all that was
necessary. The greater the malignancy of the disease, the deeper
the trance, until the Self was reached and made to teil the why of
it. When the Self explained the cause of its irritation, it was then
assured that the “outer” misunderstanding would be corrected
and it might go about repairing the rupture between itself and its
physical machine.
The desire body works automatically and without reason or
logic. It thinks only in yes or no terms, with no intermediate
considerations, either being highly pleased by a Stimulation or
greatly depressed by it. In a well-controlled person, the desire
body refers all “outer” Stimulation to the E-Ka-Ya, the High Spir­
it or Self, and if the E-Ka-Ya, or Self reasons it to be in keeping
with the environment it finds Itself in, and in harmony with na-
ture, it becomes more aware of its physical seif and thereby keeps
better care of it. But if the desire body sends back a Stimulation
not “natural” to the Self, it rejects it; and if the desire body con-
tinues to send back a Stimulation once rejected by the Self, in
Order to escape what it knows is not good, the Self will start
withdrawing from its physical machine by closing off its sense of
awareness of it. This slowly, or rapidly—as the case may be—
leaves the body open for E-Na-Da, the force of death, to take over
more and more, until it breaks down the physical body to such
a degree that The Self can no longer operate through it, even in
what you call the “subconscious” way, and so departs, and the
body soon Starts to decay.
Now, some schools of the “inner teachings” neglected to teil
the people that death of the body does not mean that the Self
escapes, leaving the desire body to die with the physical. The
Self can never rid Itself of the desire body, but It must train it to
react only to the kind of Stimulation that will be good for the
upward growth of Itself. And the best place for that training
is while still in the physical body, for the physical body acts as
an insulator against the shocks of Stimulation that contact the
Self. When this insulation is taken away before the person has
learned to govern his desires, it will find Itself automatically act-
2
ing out all that was impressed on the desire body upon reaching
the astral plane. This is one of the very good reasons why the
really honest teachers of the “Ancient Wisdom” warned their
followers to live in a state of detachment in all their acts, so that
the desire body would not become too impressed.
Some of the ancient Egyptians and Hindus knew well that the
desire body was carried right along into the astral, but they also
believed that the desire body would last only as long as the physi-
cal body did not fall into dust; and as many of the immensely
wealthy and powerful heads of those ancient civilizations indulged
greatly in satisfactions of the body and believed that they could
go on enjoying such satisfactions also on the astral plane under
certain conditions, their ingenious minds set about concocting a
drug with which they could embalm the physical body and keep
it intact for many thousands of years. That is why, also, all the
tombs of the great kings and pharaohs were sealed and a curse
put upon those who opened them.
While this was the attitude of the Egyptians and many other
ancient races of people, the Hindus held the opposite belief. They
learned to destroy the physical body as quickly as possible after
the Self separated from it, fearing that if they did not, they would
become earthbound and have to suffer just as they had in the
physical body from the woes of the flesh. So the Hindus cre-
mated their dead believing it would cause the end also of the
desire body on the astral. Then they believed that the Monad, or
Life-spark, having no attachments left in it, would automatically
gravitate speedily to a Nirvanic paradise, or become One with the
Absolute.
Fortunately, they taught the art of detachment. 1 say “for-
tunately” because neither destroying nor preserving the physical
body makes much effect on the desire body. No, the only hope
for man is to train the desire body while still in the physical world.
If he does not, he will find it extremely more difficult to do so
on any of the astral planes. And if you want quick and continued
returns to the Earth body, just fail to train the desire body!
The earliest of man’s civilizations on Earth feil into the dust
for the same reason as all the others that followed—and the
same will happen to yours of the present. That reason is the
3
forgetting of the Great Spirit and the becoming lost in the bewil-
dering jungle of desire, of self-satisfaction. Believe me, friends,
the nations of your world are even now tottering on the brink of
disaster—the kind which swept Atlantis and Mu under the sea
and drove a hundred million people down out of the great Him-
alayan civilization of Yu, after killing over eighty million in a
great earthquake and the most terrifying snowstorm ever to hit
that part of the world. Even today, in the section of those moun-
tains where this beautiful civilization once existed, great blizzards
almost constantly rage.
Why do both the Indians and the Chinese consider the Hima-
layan mountains as sacred? Only because they know it to be their
home, even though to the majority of the people of both these
nations, the real truths concerning Yu have long been lost in
myth and antiquity.
Many vast and wonderful civilizations have come and gone
since the days of Yu. Many of these met with sudden and ex-
tremely violent ends. In fact, the entire globe has been racked
and churned from end to end, wiping man off the Earth on five
separate occasions, and destroying most of the plant and animal
life as well. But, while form may be changed, matter out of which
form is made cannot be annihilated as long as there is the life
force in existence. I believe, however, that it is an observable
fact in your present scientific age that, while an entire species
may appear to have been destroyed, it will return again in a new
and a more superior body for waging war against whatever it was
that caused destruction to its original body. This is what is
termed “conforming to environment.”
4
CREATION
Yada di Shi’ite:
The space you now see and seem to feel to be outside yourself
was once a black void that stretched out into all, an endless
eternity. There was neither wind nor elements of any kind what-
soever. All was in utter quiescence, of a kind which no human
can even faintly comprehend. And yet, within that incomprehen-
sible void there was a vast world of life and ceaseless activity that
far surpassed in beauty and grandeur anything Earth-people have
ever known. Let me pause here and now to teil you that you
people of Earth will know of this world again in the great distant
future of time; you will all come home.
This world I speak of is Man’s True Consciousness. It needed
no external light, for it was a light unto itself. The same goes for
sound, and for all things you know of now in your physical world.
If this were not so, where then do you think all that you now
have and love could have come from? We do not ask this ques-
tion—we state it. All was Consciousness, but naught was suffer-
ing with the illusion of an outward consciousness. To give you
a comparison: think of your nightly dream world. This was and
is the Etheric World; or, if you are of the Christian orthodox
belief, you may say it was the God Mind we were existing in.
Words, however, are quite useless to describe it.
When we use the term “dream” we do so for the sake of
the beginner or neophyte. This gives him a clearer understanding
than were we to use “conscious meditation,” which is much nearer
the true state, and, while only partly grasped by the Initiate, its
true nature is fully known and consciously realized by the Master
or Adept. This is the state of consciousness which the other
members of the “Inner Circle” have referred to as non-directional
motion, or free motion in space; this is the state where mind loses
its consciousness of being the ohserver of a thing and becomes
the thing it was observing.
In my opinion, however, such a condition is an illusion. Nev-
ertheless, it is the Divine illusion suffered only by the Gods. Mind
5
cannot lose its own identity completely; otherwise it would fall
into complete and absolute oblivion. It loses, in this case, its
sense awareness of its position as observer only; otherwise it
would not be able to bring back any conscious recollection of the
experienced Sensation of having become that which it had observed
and merged with.
Speaking thus, for one to assume that the mind is not always
actively conscious of being itself is, in my opinion, pure folly.
Man on earth has come to that erroneous conclusion simply be-
cause of being locked up in the Chemical world. He had, for the
larger part, lost his ability to see and comprehend beyond his
three dimensional state of awareness.
This is man’s paramount illusion. He has entered the physical
body; he has taken unto himself form, and hence has fallen into the
hypnotic belief that the form or body is he. The sin, or evil, of
life on any plane is not in the act of the spirit in making form and
substance and entering therein, but in the spirit’s willing desire to
sink itself so deep into the form that it loses all consciousness of
Itself.
Now, this was what the Over-Lords discovered the High Arch-
angels of the Low Etheric were secretly working to do, and there-
upon sent a messenger to the Low Etheric, forbidding the High
Archangels to go further with their experiment in lowering the
vibratory rate of their world, warning them that such an act would
automatically throw everyone who entered into the Low Etheric
into an entirely new dimension of thought which would eventually
cause him untold misery. It would blind him for eons of time to
his true nature. It would blot out all knowledge of his true iden­
tity. In other words, it would drive him out of what your Bible
calls his “Garden of Eden,” and he would become completely lost
in the jungles of a furious world of desire over which he would
have no control.
“Eat not of this Tree of Knowledge,” warned the Over-Lords
of the High Etheric World, “for on the day that you do, you shall
die.”
The High Archangels argued that they knew well the chances
they were taking but that they had agreed upon certain methods
6
and devised ways of returning to their world if things did not go
well. “Besides all that, we are Creators in our own right, and our
right is to create things after our own way and fashion. . . .”
“But this thing you do will bring misery to the endless millions
who not only now enter into your plane, but all those who have
yet to come into the Lower Etheric. And that is not all, for though
you may think you can discover or make a path back, we solemnly
warn you that those who get back shall stay but a very short time,
and even of that time they shall have no memory or knowledge,
but will have to go on elsewhere—some for countless centuries—
and when they return again to the Low Etheric, it will mean their
almost immediate return to the new low Vibration you are planning
to create.”
As kindly as this warning was given, the Over-Lords of the
High Etheric knew that it would fall on deaf ears and that the
High Archangels would rebel against all power and authority, and
that there was nothing to do but to give in to them. The Over-
Lords knew also that the High Archangels had not yet discovered
the method of changing inner motion to outer motion, but that
they eventually would. There was no doubt in the minds of the
Over-Lords—so, after considerable thought on the matter, they
decided not only to offer no further resistance to the plans of the
High Archangels, but to take on the task of creating the new vibra-
tory world for them.
This decision on the part of the Over-Lords may seem to some
to be both inconsistent and wantonly cruel in the light of their
warning against such an act. The logic of their decision will be
seen, however, when it is learned that they reasoned thusly: the
greatest impulse of mind, whether Lord, angel or man, is the
Creative one. And for a block to be put before this impulse is not
either to kill it or deter it in any männer. In fact, all blocks to this
force only strengthen it. And, too, had the High Archangels not
feit something lacking in themselves, they would never have been
able to even think of such a thing as a lower Vibration than the
one they were in.
All desire must, sooner or later, be met with; once created in
thought it must be projected and clothed with sensory material, so
that the creator of the object may make use of that which he has
7
I
created. The greater the desire, the more substantial the projec-
tion. Too, the lower the plane the creator abides in, the more
difficult it becomes to project and clothe the thought desire in
sensory substance, but when accomplished it becomes far more
concrete not only to him, but to all others who come under the
influence of his thought waves, until after a time it is set aside or
what you call forgotten by its creator, and seems to take on char-
acteristics of its own, lending the impression that it is something in
and of itself.
There is a generally upheld law that one plane of consciousness
shall not actively interfere into the desired doings of another plane
of consciousness, whether it be higher or lower. Teaching and
advice on any and all matters can be given; and here, too, enters
in another law: that once a true Creative desire is set into motion
by one on a lower plane, someone on the plane above his must aid
and abet him to the best of his ability to bring that which is de­
sired into manifestation. This must be done, even though the one
in the higher state of consciousness knows (through past experi-
ences of his own) that the thing desired may cause its originator
a great deal of suffering. Man can learn only by experience. He
must have it to grow.
So it was that the Over-Lords were only abiding by a law they
themselves had originated when they decided to aid the High Arch-
angels in creating the new world they so desired.
Let us now name the forces or ingredients that were used to
shape the mold or pattern in the black void of the Outer World by
the Over-Lords of the High Etheric. First and foremost—need.
Need for what? For more knowledge for man, a further awakening
of consciousness. This cannot be brought about except by excita-
tion of the Life Impulse.
Second, desire—desire of the most furious, intense nature. The
things desired—heat, cold, sound, light.
The great secret the Over-Lords held—and knew the High
Archangels had as yet no inkling of it—was the Great Void. The
Over-Lords had known of the existence of this vast field of black
nothingness for what you would term as endless eons of time.
What its true nature was, or what it could be used for, they did
8
1
not know. It had been discovered by the same method that ad-
vanced students of metaphysics and yoga philosophy use to dis-
cover the Inner World of man—meditation.
The High Archangels used a form of meditation, but it was
more a deepseated concentration than true meditation, and was
used principally to carry them from one plane to another. They
also knew of the forces called heat and cold, and how to use them
on all the many inner planes, but they knew nothing of the type
of meditation known to the Over-Lords, nor of how to project and
direct these forces outside of the inner planes.
The making of the new plane of thought was of a grave and
serious nature. How grave and serious only the Over-Lords knew.
For one thing, they were not at all sure of the outcome, or whether
or not they could hold under full control the substance and forces
that would be used to construct the new world of Thought once
they were unleashed.
So, a great band of Over-Lords, numbering in the tens of thou-
sands, descended into the Low Etheric and held counsel with a
vast throng of High Archangels, also numbering in the tens of
thousands. The Over-Lords explained the Situation in full to the
High Archangels, and disclosed their secret knowledge of the Black
Void. At the same time they refrained from telling them how,
through the true art of meditation, they had discovered such a state
or condition as the Black Void. Of course, the Archangels, like
physical man today, wanted to know how something existed out­
side of themselves. Today the question is similar; you ask, “If
there is an end to what I call space, what is outside of the space?”
Pause here for a moment and reflect on these two questions—
those of the Angels, asked endless millions of years ago, and your
own of the present—and then recall all that has been said in these
pages up to this point. Is it not now quite clear to you that neither
space, nor time, nor anything eise, has any true existence in or of
itself, but all are merely productions and constructions of mind
stuff? The Black Void was no more a condition or thing in itself
than was any other state of consciousness and the Over-Lords
were well aware of this. They knew, too, that as black and empty
as the Void was, it was not a useless condition or a mistake or
9
“sport” of Life. Their great knowledge told them that a condition
may remain without seeming worth for billions of years and then
suddenly come into its own; and its own may transcend in beauty
and value all eise that seemed so brilliant before.
The condition called the Black Void was not to be explained,
the Over-Lords said—it was to be experienced. “But the time is
not yet for you; and if you insist on this new creation, as we know
you do, the time shall come, and soon, when you shall enter into
it and experience it. But when that time comes, it shall not be as
it is now; for in your present state you would not comprehend it
and it would therefore bring chaos and madness to your world.
Have faith in us and we shall build your desired creation.”
With that, the meeting was ended, and the Over-Lords with-
drew again to their high mental state to begin the creation of
what you now know as the physical-chemical world.
After spending much time (not as you know time) in deep
prayer, they then prepared themselves for a great ritual, half of
which they held in secret, and the last half they called upon the
whole vast population to lend their strength and energy to. Man-
trams were said in perfect harmony and unison, uttered by mil-
lions upon millions of voices, starting in a low whisper and working
up to a devastating crescendo, and fading back to a whisper. The
great holy words to these mantrams we cannot give you, for the
simple reason that we do not know them, but we have been told
that a few of your greatest secret Orders are and have been in
possession of them for thousands of years.
We may teil you also that certain of these mantrams are the
“Golden Keys” that man finally acquires after he has completed
his rounds of physical experiences both in the Chemical world and
on the many planes of the astral. These Keys alone will once
more open the door to the High Etheric. It is also taught that cer­
tain individuals can, if they so wish, attain such a state of truth-
awareness that it will negate much of their karma, thereby reduc-
ing the need the Ego may find in itself for returning to the Chemical
world. This knowledge must be gained while still in the physical
world.
When the great Ritual had been brought to a close the vast
10
angelic host of the High Etheric, who had not yet attained the
Over-Lord state of consciousness, were dismissed and asked to go
about their living in constant prayer for the success of the efforts
of the coming project of the Over-Lords. Then the Over-Lords
formed a giant circle, tens of thousands taking a seated posture,
shoulder to shoulder. In the center of that vast wheel, one of the
most advanced among them was chosen to sit. His position was
the representation of the Eternal All.
When all was in readiness, the command came from the Center
of the Wheel that they should start chanting the Great Holy Man-
trams and none were to stop until they feit themselves slipping
from their awareness sense of the High Etheric. At the first uttered
word of the chant, they were to begin to meditate—not upon the
Black Void, but upon the two force energies called heat and cold.
They were to picture these two forces running alternately from
themselves in tremendous torrents; the Mantrams would of them­
selves bring in the conscious awareness of the Black Void.
The law of the Great Ritual was that the Over-Lord represent-
ing the Eternal All was to utter no sound but was to go into pro-
found meditation and enter the Black Void ahead of all the others
in the Wheel, and on attaining it, he must, while holding on to his
awareness of seif, send back parts of his consciousness in what you
call “the silver cord” form. His consciousness had to fashion tens
of thousands of these cords so as to make a complete hook-up or
unbroken net with each of the little sparks of consciousness that
went to make up the Wheel in the Etheric, so that he would know
by the impulse that ran along the cord when each and every one
of these little centers of conscious awareness had joined him in the
Black Void. When all had made the transition, the Holy Wheel
would be formed completely on both planes—the Higher to draw
energies from the lower. In this männer they could both project
and guide intelligently the energies called heat and cold.
As we said before, this was an entirely new experiment and
the Over-Lords watched with what may be termed bated breath
while they struggled to keep the forces under strict control. Sud-
denly the two energies rushed with tremendous speed and force
into one another. For the barest tick of time nothing happened.
The next lightning, the brilliance being of appalling magnitude and
11
intensity, lighting up the Black Void for billions of miles—the light
being a beautiful opalescent green. Then the light streaked back
to its center of origin and another tick of time passed in blackness
while the Over-Lords watched with growing interest the violent
churning of the heat and cold energies. Then the whole Black
Void seemed to shudder and rock in convulsive waves of what
you call noise as these two elements battled one another for su-
premacy of the Black Void, only to have the brilliant green light
drive them farther and farther apart. At the same time, the terrific
vibrating waves of sound created an ever-widening magnetic field
that drove the heat and cold waves together at tremendous speeds;
and the meeting and resultant exploding of these two energies,
oxygen and hydrogen, which acted as a conductor for the flashes
of light you call electricity.
By combining their forces they formed a vast cloud of mist.
The first form of electricity was of the static or friction kind created
by the tremendous vibratory motion of the heat and cold waves
when they attempted to combine. The waves of flashes of elec­
tricity traveling on the sound waves and being attracted to the
oxygen-hydrogen atoms would engulf and absorb them by pene-
trating their outer electronic shell and exploding the nucleus.
(Actually, one atom of matter never strikes another atom, but
on approaching one another, the heavier of the two disrupts vio-
lently the magnetic field between the electrons and the nucleus,
and the nucleus of the lighter body explodes long before the nu­
cleus of the heavier body can touch it. Too, the new energy-wave
formed by the instant regrouping of the exploded atom may fuse
with the atom that caused it to explode, or one may attract to itself
one or more of the electrons from the orbit of the other; but in
either case, a new matter or energy wave is produced.)
Out of the vast field of chaotic energy, sound Vibration had
reached such a pitch of motion that had the planetary system
existed then as they are now, it could have shattered them all back
into novas. However, under the then existing conditions, it be-
came an atom-smasher of devastating strength and proportion,
releasing many new energies—the most important of which was
what you now call radiant energy. With crushing blows of inter-
mittent sound waves, monstrous vacuum tubes, or pockets, formed
12
between the blows, sucking into their black depths vast energy
clouds. Then high speed sound-waves rolled in after them crush-
ing the electronic Shells and exploding the kernel or nucleus.
(In smashing the atom, the electrons are jarred loose from their
orbits, and they go shooting off into space; but their freedom is
short-lived—in fact, almost negligible, due to the many attracting
forces around them. The Stripping of the shell from the atom
leaves it open for the force of sound to play against it till it raises
the vibratory speed far beyond that natural to it. This abnormal
speed creates frictional heat of the most intense kind causing the
nucleus to disintegrate in a blaze of its own life forces—radiant
energy.)
When the sound waves rolled back out of the mouths of these
giant vacuum tubes, radiation particles used the waves of motion
as a vehicle, thus escaping the tubes. The tubes being formed in
a spiral, or bore shape—or, better yet, like the spiral formation
of a cyclone cloud, sound waves rushed out in spiral waves, creat-
ing a spiral-like vortex in the chaotic darkness. These wheeling
fields of motion created by sound waves, while strong enough to
attract to themselves radiant energy particles, could not, in the
beginning, attract and hold other particles. Instead, these passed
through the spiral lines as if they did not exist; but as the stresses
were filled in they became vast fields of flaming energy, their weight
began to teil on other bodies around them, and all lighter bodies
within their tremendous field of attraction were swallowed up in
pulsating gulps, and with crushing blows, the essense of their energy
was crushed out of them and their shells spewed out into space.
All substance, being born from the Great Cosmic Mind, or
“Wheel,” has the likes or dislikes natural to that Mind. This is
true also of the seeming individual minds of man. My purpose
in pointing out this particular idea is to give you a clearer under-
standing in respect to the action called natural selectivity, and af-
finity, that takes place in your Chemical world. This is the Thing
of the thing, or what our mutual friend and helper, Meade Layne,
calls the “ding and sich.” It is a mode of consciousness of its
Creator. While this law cannot be changed in its entirety, it is
—like all eise—subject to change by modification. Were it not for
the cushion called modification, all things would be subject to
13
sudden and drastic changes and your earth-life would be a far
different thing than it is. So, you see, if you feel you have nothing
eise to thank the God for, you may thank Him every day of your
life for the Law of Modification.
Because it would take many large volumes to explain in detail
the over-all activity that went on in the construction of the Uni-
verse and because in these writings we hope to deal with more
than subject, we will have to forego whatever pleasures there may
be in pursuit of endless technicalities.
We will go on with the work by making the simple Statement
that all planets, or what you now know as heavenly bodies, of what­
ever kind, were formed or came into being by the law of selectivity
and repulsion that one Chemical has for another, and much of the
activity of the entire Cosmos had to do with the size and weight of
one body over another and its directional motion and vibratory
rate and its distance in relation to other bodies.
A great many of the suns are millions of years older (as you
record time) than the Earth and Moon and like bodies, but none
of the planets were born out of the suns by some cataclysmic
eruption of birth, caused by giant planets roaring into one of the
suns that were many times larger than the Earth’s sun—the planets
taking their substance from matter rejected by the suns through
the force of repulsion—the substance being caught up in vortexes
created by an entirely different tone or sound Vibration.
As these planetary bodies grew they became caldrons of in-
tense heat, the tremendous heat acting as a sterilizing agent to
keep the growing bodies from being over-run by the billions upon
billions of etheric germ lives that swarmed in interstellar space.
As these planets started to cool, sulphuric gas clouds many thou-
sands of miles deep formed around them, blocking off the intense
heat rays of the sun, which were far more penetrating, due to the
complete lack of the auric envelope that you now call “ether”
around them. This auric envelope could not form until the Earth
and other planetary bodies had become more compact and solidi-
fied. When a body is set into free motion in what you call space,
it will create a pressure force around it equal to its own aggregated
mass, and when two or more such bodies are set into such mo­
14
tion, they will affect one another according to their mass weight
and field of proximity. However, in regard to heavenly bodies,
there are other forces of endless variety to consider: their Chemical
content, their size and speed of rotation, their fields of repulsion
and attraction. But there are endless books on astronomy of good
authority. We will merely touch on the subject from time to time
as these writings go on.
But one more thing before we close this particular chapter;
your comets run into the hundreds of thousands and are the gene-
rators and sowers of cosmic pollen, breaking down and creating
and scattering new and virile energy throughout the vast void.
Despite their tremendous size, most of them are of relatively light
structure. Were they of heavy and solidified matter like the earth
or other planets, their great speed would create such friction to
be brought to bear upon them as to burn them up or explode them
before they had travelled a thousand miles from their point of
origin.
The work of these “cosmic bees” is vast in scope for they not
only take planetary debris and convert it back into useable energy,
but they rush so close to the suns as to sometimes pass right through
the corona and steal great quantities of heat energy to supply
other bodies whose position is too remote from any of the suns
to get direct heating.
While comets steal vast amounts of energy from the suns, the
suns are constantly being supplied with new more or less solidified
matter. Vast clouds of this matter, numbering into the millions of
miles, come pouring out from a void that is far greater in mile-
age than the distance from your earth to your most distant star.
This matter is converted into radiant energy by the suns. The
dark spots or fields seen in your sun are the giant tubes through
which the electrons of the smashed atom are driven out by the
force of the exploding nuclei. They are then driven on out into
space by the continual pressure of light force. It is in these vast
fields of matter that comets are formed, the building of them taking
place by whirling lines of magnetism.
The larger and denser becomes the mass, the greater the pres­
sure of light and sound waves brought to bear on it, and if there
15
are no other bodies within sufficient radius to offer it an equal
resistant force, it will break free of its birthplace and roar off to
find its orbit among bodies that are strong enough to create a
more or less constant field of attraction for it.
Regardless of what your present mathematics attempts to show,
no force is a constant. For instance, certain existing conditions
may take a sudden change and cause a field of attraction to be-
come a field of repulsion. While light is probably the most de-
pendable, as far as its speed goes, its action can be modified by
refraction or complete blockage, and while such changes do not
affect the light or its speed, it might just as well, for it either nulli-
fies or causes such radical changes in the bodies it is playing on
that it becomes no longer a constant. In other words, a thing in
itself is never a constant but finds its constancy in its work. This
too is true of man. As long as man acts, he lives; and in any
minute he fails to act, he is dead. In other words, the force of his
action that he may have been expending on any one given thing
has been cut off. However, neither man or “things” can achieve
the state of complete inactivity on any plane of consciousness, no
matter how advanced the state. The so-called cycle of quiescence
is no less a cycle of activity. The teachings that man or worlds
enter into a state of rest, or no motion, or nothingness, and then
back into what you term a somethingness, while harmless to those
who desire to listen to it, is not entirely a true doctrine.
The untrained are staggered over the immensity of space, not
knowing that the immensity of space is the immensity of the Uni­
versal Mind, and immensity of the Universal Mind is the im­
mensity of The Self.
Your scientists wish to know if their belief that your universe
is expanding is true; we can assure you it is, for the simple reason
that man’s consciousness is expanding.
We do not like to repeat ourselves, but we often find it neces-
sary to say the same things though in different ways. A little
earlier it was stated that you have only two really dependable
sources of knowledge in your physical world—namely, science and
philosophy. If either of these lights fails or becomes obscure your
civilization will crumble in the dust as all other great civilizations
16
have done before you. As exact and delicate as your scientific
instruments may be, we wish you to know that the minds that de-
signed and made them are far superior in every way to those
instruments. Therefore, we may safely assert that the most accurate
instrument man may devise will not do more than register certain
aspects of any given phenomena that may be taking place at the
particular moment in your physical Chemical world; but as to the
acceptability of the truths of the seemingly existing phenomena,
the mind alone can and must decide that. All that physical instru­
ments can ever do is to register motion, never the truth of the
motion.
17
MAHARAJA NATCHA TRAMALAKI
The story concerning this man is that he was of an English
mother and an Indian father. He was born in 1848 in Dacca,
Bengal Province. His family was extremely wealthy and owned
a large estate just outside of Bombay. His father desired that he
become a medical man and sent him to medical College at Oxford.
But he was by nature a poet and philosopher and so after receiving
his final degree in medicine to please his father, he suddenly dis-
appeared. The story is that he spent about ten years traveling in
the remotest regions of the world and studying as many of the
religious and philosophical beliefs of man as he could lay his hands
to. In 1915 he finally came back to his home in Bombay where
he died confessing he had found no answer to life that could give
him peace of mind; that all questions simply posed more questions
and that all answers were simply personal opinions that said noth­
ing. He now says the only answer to life as a whole is to question
nothing—just BE, facing all situations with as much detachment as
one can muster.
18
CREATION r> (continued)
The Maharajah Natcha Tramalaki:
When a vast section of the Black Void had been filled in with
all männer and types of heavenly bodies, word was sent to the
Archangels of the Lower Etheric that their new plane of conscious­
ness was ready to be experienced.
A vast and mighty host of Archangels were then initiated into
a most holy Order, which was to be a deeply secretive group call-
ing themselves Yah-Sue, which means “Believers in the Holy Illu­
sion.” As greatly advanced as were these Angelic Beings in mental
awareness they had not the wisdom and knowledge of the Over-
Lord state of consciousness and therefore could not understand
the method of meditation that would take them into the Black
Void.
So a great rite was held and explanations were made with
respect to the new worlds and the probable conditions to be found
on them and the possible changes that might be made as time
went on; and also how to escape from these bodies back to their
original state when and if existing conditions did not prove favor-
able.
With these instructions given, the Over-Lords caused a great
sleep to fall upon the Angelic Host saying unto them, “Let there
be light! Awaken, oh my brothers, from your profound world of
Inner Consciousness! Let the light of the Outer Awareness now
prevail upon you! And let this light be divided from the Inner
Consciousness!”
When the High Archangels entered the new mental state called
the Black Void, they were not at all shocked or confused at the
glorious sight that confronted them, for they were under the guid-
ing control of the minds of the Over-Lords—who, eons of time
later in man’s history, were referred to by certain occult schools
as the Group Spirit that governed man’s activity on the Earth
Plane until he, man, had acquired sufficient earth experience to be
given his freedom to work on his own initiative. Of the Group
Spirit we will talk at greater length in later pages.
19
Orders were given to the great Angelic Hosts to go and in-
vestigate the great fiery bodies that seemed to roar through the
inky blackness of the Void, at appalling rates of speed. One of the
first things to hold at attention of the High Archangels was the
stränge fact that motion had taken on new properties. Not only
did the substance of these flaming bodies seem to be something in
themselves and entirely apart from them but they seemed to move
about quite independently of the other bodies around them; and
when the Archangels entered these flaming bodies they discovered
their consciousness did not blend with the substance but remained
quite separate from it and still moved around it. The High Arch­
angels spent what would be the equivalent of many millions of
years investigating these bodies as they went through their endless
States of change. All conditions of change were duly recorded and
reports sent back to the Over-Lords, where—in the course of time
—they have been handed back to man as he himself advanced and
grew in brain and mind.
As some of these flaming gaseous bodies became more or less
solidified, the High Archangels noted that the substances of which
they were composed moved less and less violently. It seemed to
them that motion was congealing and they found it more and
more difficult to handle the substance. At first they believed this
peculiar condition was due to the substance being of a yet lighter
matter than their own bodies. Finally they came to realize it was
just the reverse; their own bodies were at fault; whereupon the
High Archangels withdrew their consciousness from their new
worlds and held counsel among themselves, with the Over-Lords
intervening occasionally, as to what best to do to overcome this
new condition for it was considered useless to go further with their
investigation of these bodies unless some means was devised to
make direct contact with it. That, then, was their desperate need
—direct contact.
Now, let us stop here for a moment and endeavor to explain
what might appear to one not trained in metaphysics a stränge
thing—our use of the term “bodies” in regard to the High Arch­
angels. In all States of awareness of an individual the impulse
known as consciousness always has a body to travel in; and as for
that, so must all things have a body to travel in or on, but—and
this is very important to know—neither the consciousness of an
20
individual nor a so-called “thing” need know or be at all aware
of its body, or of possessing a body. A form or shape or body is
merely a field of expanded conscious awareness; and these fields
of awareness are best suited for the work or experiences that may
lie ahead of the consciousness that built it or them. Mind builds
and “destroys” according to its particular need of the moment and
it is not always what you call consciously aware of its action.
Let us bring this thought down to your physical world for more
clarity: your heart beats and all your internal Organs work night
and day without conscious prompting. Your entire body is going
through constant and rapid changes without your conscious as-
sistance. This is what is known as sub-conscious activity, but—
believe me—“subconscious” is a misnomer, for the consciousness
does know its every minute move; it merely does not impart its
knowledge to the particular vehicle it is operating upon at the
time. Force never says, “I am going to move a body,” but it
moves the body and leaves that body to use its (the force’s) energy
for its particular needs, and a body that has been so acted upon
may find endless implications from the männer alone by which
the force moved it. The purpose of my telling you all this is not
to leave you wandering around in the dark in regard to the Con­
sciousness and a body and their relations to one another.
The Over-Lords spoke to the assembly of High Archangels,
and said, “Oh, our Brothers of the New Light, the difficulty that
you are now faced with lies not in your new world but in your-
selves, and henceforth if you are to advance and grow in your new
world, this you will find to be a truth well worth pursuing. Here-
tofore, while you have been in possession of what are known as
“forms” or “bodies,” you have not been aware of them as being
something apart or separate from yourself; but now, and due to
the necessity of the occasion, we command you to be aware of
these bodies.” With that the Over-Lords uttered a holy mantram
in deep and resonant tones that caused the Archangels to feel as
though a great and beautiful and vibrant light had passed over
them.
“And now, before you depart again to your new worlds we teil
you this: the bodies you are now conscious of are good only for
your present needs; the substances of which the new worlds are
21
made are subject to rapid and endless change. These changes will
not conform to you so if you hope to live in harmony with this
new world, you must conform to it and all its changes; otherwise
you shall perish from it.”
The first physical bodies the Archangels used or came with to
the earth plane was enormous, ranging from forty to fifty feet in
height and of mighty strength and they knew naught of fear. But
the earth was barren as yet of any kind of growth and was con-
stantly being rocked and split asunder by devastating earth shocks
and frightful winds of intense heat and cold; now that their bodies
were of the same vibratory rate as that of the Earth, they needed
substance of the same Vibration to sustain it and this could not be
found anywhere; and in consequence of all this, they soon perished
or gave up their physical bodies. But instead of entering back
into the Low Etheric and regaining their state as Archangels, they
entered a state of consciousness which we shall call the Low Astral.
These first experimenters of your world had had their Earth
experiences and had failed to conform with the then existing con-
ditions of the Earth—the Astral being the only open door of free-
dom for them from the intolerable conditions of the elements of
the Earth. Here they could stand by, as it were, and be quite
aware of all that went on on the Earth but could not physically
enter into its activity for some time to come.
Then for millions of years more the Earth was deluged and
fiooded from end to end with scalding rains, red rains in some
parts of the Earth and black rains—the kind which you seem to
think phenomenal today. The why of them your present-day sci-
entists almost answered when they said it was due to dust particles.
But the rising of the dust was not of recent times but long years
before the floods came there were cycles running into the thou-
sands of years of utter dryness that split and powdered the rocky
surface of the Earth, and scorching winds of hundreds miles an
hour swept the Earth carrying trillions of tons of rock dust thou-
sands of miles out into space.
After the great deluge there followed an almost equal period
of continual sunshine in which the Sun pulled almost all the sur­
face water from the Earth. The Earth’s atmosphere being much
22
more rarefied at that time, its surface matter gave less resistance
to the pulling action of the Sun and in consequence trillions of tons
of water particles were pulled thousands of miles out beyond the
Earth’s atmosphere where it ran into and was held by a vast cold
band, where it rapidly formed a globe of ice around the Earth.
On first thought, one would suppose such a condition would
shut off the rays of the Sun and cause the Earth to freeze; but the
reverse was the case. It did soften the heat radiation of the Sun
but such to come for the first time on the Earth, and if the fierce
action of the Sun’s rays on the Earth’s surface had continued, the
coming plant life could not have survived its first Earth experience
any better than the Archangels or Man.
The great ice barrier also kept the savage winds that roared
out of interstellar space from getting through to the Earth. The
Earth’s atmosphere became somewhat hot and the humidity was
heavy and dense. The great winds that had swept vast quantities
of earth particles into the air to be treated by life-giving ultra
violet rays of the Sun, had long been back on the Earth, brought
by water particles; and though the Sun had taken most of the
water off the Earth’s surface to form the ice-barrier in the sky, it
had left great lakes of it, so that when the ice-barrier blocked off
the great winds from the Earth, these lakes of water became prac-
tically motionless. Then great swarms of what your friend, The
Helper, referred to as “etheric” germ life—but which I shall call
by a name you may better understand as vitic globales—settled
on the nearly motionless surface of these lakes. These minute
points of light are intelligent life forces sent out by the Over-Lords
from the High Etheric, and their work was to create or duplicate
the scenic beauty of the Low Etheric, so that when man or the
High Archangels made their second attempt to colonize the Earth
they would feel more at home.
These little creatures I sometimes like to refer to as etheric
eggs, for as they came to rest on the surface of the waters, they
went to work on the then existing Chemicals or dead matter on the
water and formed what you call a scum on the surface, thus form-
ing a sufficiently strong physical structure for the next Step—which
was accomplished by the slow evaporation of water. As the waters
were absorbed into the humid air, great quantities of this surface
23
scum were left on dry land where it started to turn acid and fer-
ment very rapidly.
All changes in matter are brought about by the force of the
Cosmic Mind playing upon what you call raw or dead forces called
Chemicals; or, in other words, a positive force working in a nega­
tive field, rearranging the electronic fields of the raw matter so as
to form a variety of Chemical compositions. The purpose of creat-
ing a vast variety of Chemical compositions was to form a positive-
negative field that consisted of an endless variety of motion or
different rates of Vibration. Some of these rates of Vibration dif-
fered from one another by infinitesimal fractions, and others were
of such great speeds they ran out of the field of what you call
solids and entered the field you call liquids and gases. Of course,
great portions of the vibrations called liquids and gases had slowed
down eons before and formed solids. That is, their rates of Vibra­
tion had slowed down to the point that would be best suited for its
coming inhabitants.
Then another change was made in the positive-negative fields
of matter. The vitic globules or pinpoints of energy all carry their
own particular rate of vibratory motion to their own in order to
enter into it and endow it with their life energy. The beginning of
this act of impregnating of matter with life energy is not a difficult
one for these little beings. In fact, the act is quite a mechanical
one, for they are automatically attracted to the Chemicals best
suited to their purpose by the magnetic field of attraction of that
Chemical.
The affinity that one kind of Chemical has for a particular life
force is brought about by the rate of motion of the electronic field
of the atoms natural to that particular Chemical. If it is of a higher
rate than the magnetic field of the life force approaching it, it will
automatically reject or repulse it; but if it is a mere fraction lower,
the life force will rush into it at a terrific rate of speed. This blend-
ing of the “spiritual” forces with the Chemical atom causes great
excitation, exhilarating the Chemical atom and expanding its mag­
netic field, causing it to pull towards itself all other chemical atoms
in harmony with it and the characteristics of shape and form im-
bued in the particular life force, and rejecting all which is not. It
continues this activity until it forms a physical seed or egg.
24
In mystical terms, we may refer to the seed or egg as a sub-
jective thought or idea awaiting the proper moment to become an
objective manifestation called out of the invisible into the visible
by the commanding rays of the sun, which is the light of Wisdom
in your Chemical world to all plant life and in some measure to
man also.
As long as the manifestation idea lives in harmony with the
other ideas around it and conforms to the force that brought it
into the physical world, it will thrive and grow strong; but the
moment it ceases to do so, it will in that moment perish, or lose
its physical vehicle and return to the world of the subjective.
This, however, does not mean that it will lose its life force. The
life force can never be lost, even though the Earth pass away and
all physical matter throughout the length and breadth of space
go with it, for none of it rightfully belongs to Life Force as an
eternal something, but is merely a phase of it, one of the count-
less forms of its Self-expression.
Many schools of the occult show their lack of even good
common sense when they openly state that they know the true
number of years that makes a round or cycle of the birth and
death of either man or the world of matter he lives in, or where
the true essence of man originated. Even the greatest Adept or
Avatar on Earth cannot vouchsafe this information, for once
man attains that great advanced state of mind he would not under
any circumstances allow this knowledge to pass his lips so that it
would fall into a channel that would take it back to the ears of
the untrained.
All that you shall ever read or hear in regard to man and
the so-called mystic side of life, while very beautiful and ex-
tremely helpful towards placing you on your secret Path, is by
no means whatsoever the Secret Laws of Life. Believe me, my
friends, these Laws cannot and never shall be given out. Why?
The answer is simple: You, yourself, as an individual must seek
them. They are yours; they belong exclusively to you.
Let not this news make you disheartened, for I assure you
that time is not-, but in the course of that which is not, you shall
know all the great and glorious Truth!
25
LANGUAGES AND MAN
The Maharajah Natcha Tramalaki:
The above title for this chapter falls very short if its intended
use. The subject to be discussed is not a thing of itself but is
made up of many parts, none of which can stand by itself as a
nucleus. Here, too, we find that in languages, like all eise in the
physical-chemical world of man, there is no ultimate part. The
reason for this somewhat disquieting condition becomes clear
to one if that one’s mind has not crystallized too firmly in the
world of matter, or his supposed understanding of so-called
matter.
You speak of cause and effect as though they were entities
but again these abstract terms are made up of a multitude of
parts, none of which can stand alone.
As for the cause of a thing—I do not feel (at least not in
my present state) that man shall ever know what that is. As
for that matter, we are as truly at a loss to properly comprehend
what is called effect. So all that man sees is motion; and his
Observation of even this is dependent on his state of conscious
awareness—which is in itself a mode of motion. Then, endless
planes of consciousness are so interblended that when one truly
becomes capable of seeing them as a single unit, he becomes in-
capable of seeing where one leaves off and the other begins. He
merely observes unity; and when he is capable of seeing only one
world at a time he is quite unable to comprehend a beginning or
an end, but assumes both by what he terms “reasoning,” as con-
tinuity.
But now I suppose you are wondering what all the above
has to do with the principal topic—languages. By itself, nothing;
but as a particle that belongs to the Whole, everything. If what
I have said is true, let us see how it works.
Before the physical world came into being, man, as you
have been told in other pages, lived in what is called “Inner
Consciousness,” and in that state of being he not only had no
use for a language, but his method of conversing was not by
26
lip, as it is on the physical plane, but by what you today call
telepathy. Telepathy, then, is man’s natural language.
The spoken word is a form of telepathy. The thought is
sent to the vocal cords and the vocal cords relay the thought
by sound-waves. These sound-waves are intercepted by an in­
dividual acting as the receiver. The receiver must then be able
to Interpret the varied sound-waves in order to know what is
said. If he cannot do this, the words thus sent him are as a
foreign language to him. Of course, any sound that a person
has not heard before can be considered as a language foreign
to him.
Man has been on and off this physical globe now for well
over a hundred and fifty million years and yet he has not seen
fit to create a universal language for himself. He will do this
in due course and when it has reached its full peak of accom-
plishment, many of his present understandings that he finds with
himself as separate units will vanish and leave him that much
freer and that much more advanced on his path of fulfillment.
We will pause here for a moment now to consider what I
expressed at the beginning—that no one subject can be spoken
of as a thing in itself, but only as a particle that belongs to a
myriad of other particles that go to make up the Universal, the
Whole. So, in speaking of Language and Man, we have, up to
this point, brought to the fore many units—such as conscious­
ness; conscious awareness; sound-waves; vocal cords; the indi­
vidual as a receiver as well as a transmitter; the ability to interpret
sound-waves; man’s harmonious state of being through freedom
from the barrier of language, and so on.
Man has, in one form or another, lived in every part of the
earth, the duration of his existence depending on his ability to
conform to his surrounding environment. After several Earth
experiences, man lost his ability to converse by his inner con­
sciousness method of telepathy, and in so doing, men became
strangers to one another on the earth plane.
Merely to say that the spoken word developed out of simple
sound forms to intricate and complicated ones, is to fail to un-
derstand the entire picture in regard to how Man had to change
27
his method of speech along with his body in order to conform
with the physical world. As everything eise around him used
what is known as sound as one form of expression, he realized
that he too would have to do so.
In forming vocal sounds that had meaning back of them,
the first of these sounds were brought about by strong urges
such as pain or rage or belching and sneezing. Later, the words
were formed by the character of the sound and many changes
were brought about in those first vocal sounds by the individuals
using them. As man appeared on many parts of the Earth al­
most simultaneously, the words used were naturally formed in
a different männer. Even though these words meant the same
thing the tone quality, or inflections, caused them to sound stränge
in the ears of those in different parts of the world.
Let us take for example the sound produced by a sneeze.
This sound has as many variations as there are people and it also
has a character of its own according to what caused it and its
intensity. Nevertheless, there will develop a certain pattern of
sound that certain groups of people will accept to denote the
act of sneezing. It may be something like this: “Ka-Choo!”
This sound may be accepted by one group to mean the act of
sneezing but perhaps for more simplicity the first vowel of the
sound “Ka” may be the choice, while another group, hearing
the sound for the first time, may perhaps hear it in this männer:
“Chee-yow-ee!” Yet its complication or ease lay not in the word
itself, but in how it was first heard, first taught, and the part of
the world in which it originated.
Many words that man uses even today were taken from
animal, bird and insect sounds; also sound created by wind and
rain and thunder. All of these then evolved with man and the
growth of his mental and physical seif. It also must be re-
membered that man’s physical structure has gone through many
changes and this too has been a large factor in the evolution of
the spoken word; much of his speech has been regulated by his
religious beliefs. Words that one race of people spoke aloud,
another group considered sacrilege to utter, using instead certain
motions of the body and hands to express them. An outstand-
ing example of this brevity of the spoken word in a race of peo­
28
ple, will be seen in the Polynesian or Hawaiians. In fact, where-
ever a race of people is short in the spoken word and long in
what is called sign-language, the principal cause will be found
to be of a religious nature.
Almost all of the islands in the vast expanses of the Pacific
are the mountain tops of the once great continent, Mu or Lemuria.
In the days of this continent all the principal cities were built
in the lowlands or great prairies and were surrounded on all
sides by mountains many times higher than any you now have
above water level, and the climate was very tropical.
Mu was at a highly advanced state of civilization before
great and devastating earthquake shocks, followed by the most
terrifying rainstorms to hit the Earth since almost the beginning
of the fifth return of man to Earth life. By that, I mean his
fifth attempt to colonize the earth en mässe. Of course, there
were many great empires before Atlantis and Mu, but none that
ever remotely resembled these two continents, for they covered
nearly all the then livable portions of the Earth.
It has been written, and it is true, that the cataclysmic end
of both Mu and Atlantis came about through the great greed
of the few over the masses. The subsequent horror and suffering
that spread upon the Earth was of such a hopeless nature that
finally the tens of thousands of slaves began to realize the ab­
solute futility of living longer in the physical body under the
tyrannical rule of their masters. So they began to hold secret
meetings in large and small groups, in which they called down
the wrath of the Earth, Fire and Water Gods—not upon their
masters alone, but upon themselves. They held these “black
magic” rites even while toiling endless hours in chains and while
the overseers laid the cruel lash to their naked bodies.
This praying for freedom through death by the slaves spread
by word of mouth the length and breadth of Mu until it became
a dominating Obsession with them.
I do not think it necessary for me to elaborate to the in-
formed on this subject on the effects of the outpouring of emo­
tional energy on the ether by one person, but one so informed
can better understand what takes place when millions of people
send out their pent-up vibrations in this männer.
29
There is nothing supernatural about the working if this law,
for it is like all eise—it follows a natural pattern. Oddly enough,
the only people on your earth today who do not seem to realize
that there is no activity that can be relegated to the field of the
supernatural are the so-called civilized peoples.
You ask about the supernormal? This is a term that can be
used only in a relative sense or in a comparison to other States
of consciousness, or States of so-called physical manifestations.
It must also be classified as a “time-word” and an “environment
word.” And yet another thing to consider is the fact that while
an individual may far excel others of his time, it is seldom that
his apparent show of genius goes beyond one or two specific sub­
jects, while to others he may be even moronic.
The individual ego that builds a physical-chemical body has
no other choice but to use that body to the best of his ability.
Some who are far enough along the Path can with even a very
badly-formed body do wonders, and there are others who make
a seemingly miserable failure of their physical life who have per­
fect physical structures.
This is because the former know, through other Earth-lives,
that Mind is the Master, and can therefore Override all outer
conditions that seem opposed to its growth; while the latter, not
having brought over into its new physical experience the know-
ledge of its true powers, blames all outer activity for its failures,
and falls into the habit of automatically responding to all outer
Stimuli without once stopping to consider that for every response
it makes in answer to this outer consciousness, it is itself creating
new chains of motion to which it will have to react. In time, this
kind of action takes heavy toll upon the nervous System of the
physical body, breaking it down and leaving the body defense-
less against numerous kinds of disorders.
Though few realize it, man spends nearly eighty percent of
his physical existence in subconscious activity and by so doing
he brings about the kind of life he has in what he calls his con-
scious world, the physical-chemical world being merely a stratum
of the subconscious.
30
DEATH AND REINCARNATION
The Maharajah Natcha Tramalaki:
Where the theory and teachings of what is called “reincarna-
tion” orginated seems to be a moot question among the students
of this law. Some think they came from Asia, some from India,
and still others believe they came from Persia during the life and
teachings of Zoroaster, 307 B.C. There is some belief, also, that
ancient Egypt was their source. This latter belief seems to have
arisen from the fact that in the time of the Egyptian Pharaohs
certain mystical rites were performed in one of the lower cham-
bers of the Sphinx at Gizeh. During these rites the most ad-
vanced teacher of the secret Lodge received the last and highest
initiation that could be conferred upon him.
I shall give you but a very brief outline of this initiation so
that you may understand how and why some feel it to be the
source and cause of the teachings of reincarnation, or reimbodi-
ment.
The one to take this initiation is placed upon a cross, the
cross being the symbolic form of what you recognize today as
the Roman numeral “X” or a numerical sign representing the
ultimate, or infinity, or the end of a known dimension. To the
initiate it also means the renouncing of the world of matter and
the entering into what is called the fourth dimension of time
(not time as understood by motion of three-dimensional matter).
After the initiate has been bound to the cross with leather
or Aber thongs, he permits himself to fall into a deep cataleptic
or deep trance state. While he is thus engaged, the other mem-
bers of the Lodge form a half-circle and chant in mystical words
and tones. These mantrams constitute a pleading to the gods
of the etheric worlds to make clear the path for the initiate to
the stars and other cosmic bodies where he is now intending to
project his ka or psychic body.
This kind of projection is fraught with many dangers and
there is always the likelihood that the ka, or psyche, may lose
his awareness of his physical body. A form of disassociation may
come upon him akin to what you call amnesia, and the energies
of his physical body may play out before he can get back to it,
31
in which case he dies. This means that he has failed and must
wait to come back in a new body as a baby. But should he be
successful, he brings back with him a great amount of accurate
knowledge concerning the nature and condition of the specified
bodies in space which he has been sent to investigate. The time
limit is three days. His findings are then compared with those
of the many other initiates who have gone before him and if they
compare favorably it is considered proven that he has actually
been where he has been sent. In this case his return to the physi­
cal body represents reincarnating, or the returning to the world
of flesh.
So now, my dear friends, you can see at least one way that
it became possible for the teachings of reincarnation to have come
to the Student as originating in ancient Egypt. However, I wish
to remind all students of this subject that the aforementioned
kind of initiation by no means belonged solely to the ancient
Egyptians. All races of man have had secret Orders from time
immemorial and performed similar rituals. The Incas of Peru,
the Aztecs, the Mayans, all performed ceremonies and rituals
wherein psychic projection was practiced.
But projection is not a complete Separation of the life from
the physical body. Indeed, it is not a Separation at all but merely
an accentuated sense of expansion of the awareness. Death is
a complete withdrawing of all conscious life forces and energies
from the Chemical body. The ego that once occupied that body
cannot return to it, so it must stay in the astral world until it can
build a new physical body. The nature of the individual, the
length of time experienced in the body he or she has just quit,
what the one’s desires were, the extent of his or her education
in respect to the inner laws of life—all these factors and many
more go to govern the period of stay in the astral. Some remain
out for only a nine-month period, others for from fifty to several
thousand years. Those who stay out merely the nine-month per­
iod are, as a rule, those who died at birth or shortly thereafter.
Those who stay out for great periods of time are ones far ad-
vanced in wisdom. These sometimes stay in the low astral to
act as helpers and teachers, but, despite their desire to so unself-
ishly sacrifice themselves, they are not permitted to do this unless
they go on to higher States for periodical times of rest.
32
Friends, it is not necessary that you believe in rebirth, for
rebirth is like all eise—if the law of it exists you will follow its
pattern to the letter, regardless of what you may feel about it.
And since each and every one of us will eventually come to know
the truth of all things by personal experience, is it not foolish to
try to foist our opinions on another?
Now let us turn for a moment to the whys and wherefores
of reincarnation. Look around at the world you are living in.
Study not only your fellowmen, but observe closely all forms of
life. What do you see? You see little more than constant and
ever-increasing turmoil, suffering, pain, greed, lust, hate. Now,
as brutal as these words sound and as the actions of them are,
they can yet be summed up under a single heading consisting
of one word. That word is “striving.”
That word “strife” means action of an intense kind. On the
face of it, those of you who are just beginning to come into what
is called “the light,” find this picture of the world anything but
a pleasant one. But try to remember that you too were once a
“sleeper;” you did not see clearly. Being in the forest you could
not see the trees. Now, however, you have come out into a Clear­
ing and are looking back and it has become painful for you to
find so many of the trees blighted by various diseases and blasted
and gnarled by fire, wind and rain.
With this new perspective of the forest, the novice may be­
come overwhelmed with two conflicting emotions—the first being
a sense of the hopelessness of it all, which gives him a terrifying
feeling of frustration; and next, a fanatical craving to dive back
into the distorted forest with axes, saws and dynamite to cut
down and blast out each and every tree that he feels to be evil and
ugly. Not being a forester, and therefore not qualified to de-
termine what really constitutes a good tree, in his blind zeal he
becomes a greater menace to the forest than all the strongest
winds, the hottest fires and the greatest plagues a forest ever
suffered in the course of its life and growth.
We suggest to all of you who are suddenly beset with this
desire to nominale yourselves expert “foresters”—or world sav-
iors—that before you permit your zeal to get out of hand, you
make an intensive and extensive study of trees—or men. Seek
33
to know them individually and collectively; how and why they
have appeared in a particular environment; the nature of their
action; and, most important of all, to find out for yourself whether
or not anything has not only a chance for survival after the form
has been destroyed, but also if it in any männer existed before
in a different dimension, at another time.
Friends, it is not only the right, but the duty of every indi­
vidual to ascertain the truths of these things for himself and in
his own way. No one has the least right to keep him from so
doing. To you who find a “yes” to these things, please remem-
ber that to those who draw a negative Unding on the same subject
should be given every consideration that you may expect to re-
ceive on expounding yours.
We, mankind, are seekers of the light that will lead us out
of the black jungle of materialism. We have been groping in this
impenetrable blackness for eons of time with only a very few
from time to time, actually finding the true Light, while the vast
majority of those who claim to have seen the Light are to be
likened to men who, being lost in the burning heat of the desert,
believe that they see water when all they actually see is but a
mirage.
The term “reincarnation” to most students and teachers alike
means the return to the flesh body and therefore has to do with
the three-dimensional world alone, but from our understanding
of this law, its action encompasses all planes, and really means
the returning to a plane of consciousness on which one has been
functioning at a previous time—and a “plane of consciousness”
merely means a state of awareness of the individual. If we com-
prehend this theory of reincarnation, I think we shall also un-
derstand how one can reincarnate without ever leaving the flesh
body or the material world.
In your Christian Bible—to quote in part—your Master, the
Christ, said, “Ye cannot enter the Kingdom of Heaven unless
ye be born again.” Now, “the Kingdom of Heaven” simply
means inner wisdom of the occult laws of life, and to be “born”
means “to come into.” So it is the coming into the understanding
of the Laws of Life.
To quote again along the same line, it is said, “It is as dif-
34
ficult for a rieh man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven as it is
for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle.” Friends, this
does not mean that because a person has acquired a fortune in
material goods he is barred from also acquiring inner under-
standing but it does mean that if, in your effort to amass worldly
possessions you do so to the exclusion of all eise, you debar
yourself from all learning of spiritual knowledge.
To speak again of wealth—once one has learned to master
himself, it is a relatively simple problem to master all eise. You
shall then know that Mind Controls all things and you need but
ask and you shall receive. Strangely, however, when one does
reach this stage in advanced control of himself and his material
world, the type of work he must go through to acquire it con-
ditions his sense of values to the extent that he sees quite clearly
the foolishness of amassing material wealth. Knowing the law
of supply and demand, he never asks for more than is needed.
Returning to the main body of our topic, I feel it advisable
to state here and now that which all of us of the “Inner Circle”
have stated in the past—and that is that Man is not body, but
mind, and all forms and shapes are but mind substance mani-
festing out of the law of need and that this kind of action goes
on upon all planes, without end.
It is thought by some schools that your physical-chemical
world is the one world of illusion and deception, but we say to
you that all worlds, all planes have their illusions and deceptivity;
and it is well that this is so, for without it there could be no room
for advancement. In fact, that which we call “life” and “con­
sciousness” would be impossible. We take our illusions and form
them into our needed realities, and as the belief in our needs
change, we see again the lack of concreteness to that which we
considered a necessary reality. In other words, just so long as
a thing proves useful to us, it is a reality with a nature sufficiently
concrete so that we would be but fools to argue with it. This is
as true of the theory of reincarnation as it is of all eise.
Please note that in the last Statement I used the word “theory”
instead of the word “law” which I used earlier in saying it makes
no difference whether or not we believe a thing; if it is a law
we shall follow its pattern to the letter. I should like to soften
35
that Statement a bit by saying this: A theory is a preconceived
idea about a thing; it is a kind of springboard off of which we
plunge in the hope of finding a useable reality. A law is that
which we find ourselves consciously working with.
While many of us may appear to be working under the law,
we are not if we are not aware of our actions. It is this sense
of awareness of our action that makes the difference between
law and theory, or illusion and reality.
Friends, if we are to be actually free on our path of learning,
we must endeavor to acknowledge to ourselves this truth, and
keep it uppermost in our minds at all times—the fact that no
one is infallible—from the most ignorant to the profoundest of
scholars in academic subjects; from the layman to the greatest
master in occult studies. So do not feel either afraid or ashamed
to make mistakes. Sincerity should always be the keynote. Say
what you feel, and feel what you say!
Simply because a teacher or founder of a belief asserts a
thing to be true is no reason why you should go about asserting
it, unless you have actually experienced or intuitively ascertained
such to be the case by your own efforts.
There is a certain school of thought founded on the teachings
of a Russian woman of remarkable talent and ability in the art
of acquiring and writing about occult knowledge. Of course, she
labored not alone, for as all who knew her personally will attest,
the greater part of her work was given to her in one männer or
another by her teachers, most of whom abide on many levels of
consciousness beyond the physical one in which you live.
With all due respect not only to this blessed teacher and the
advanced souls who aided her, but all of her sincere pupils and
general followers, I yet find it necessary—as almost all of my
honorable colleagues of the “Inner Circle” have done in the
past—to .restate that there are no such things as “astral shells,”
or carcasses of the dead, floating around on the astral planes, as
this teacher was supposed to have taught.
It is more than a little difficult for us to understand how one
as highly mentally evolved as was this teacher could expound
such a thought, and yet, despite the difficulties we may face in
understanding another’s belief we do not deny that one the right
36
to so believe and to so teach. Nevertheless, we of the “Inner
Circle” say to you that in all of our studies on this particular
subject, we have never encountered a form on any of the astral
levels that could be properly termed an astral corpse or former
body of a living soul.
Moreover, as far as we have been able to ascertain, there
is no “second death”—at least, not of the kind in which a body
is shed as is done on the Earth plane. To our knowledge, there
is only one form of death that takes place on the astral levels,
and it may well be considered the true death, for its kind of
action seems to completely obliterate that almost mystical thing
called the personality. This death takes place gradually as the
individual’s need becomes increasingly greater under the pressure
of desire. This dying on the astral level is called “reincarnating
on the physical plane”—or retuming to the world of three-dimen-
sional matter. But even in this death there is no leaving of a
lifeless body or Shell to drift about aimlessly on the astral planes
for conscious entities on either side of the veil to come in con-
tact with.
I could say to you that the laws of Nature would not permit
such a thing to be but such a general Statement about Nature
and its laws would be misleading. For the truth is that no one of
us, either in or out of the body, ever sees the whole of life at
one time, but each of us is cognizant of fragments of its action,
and as these fragments are themselves made up of even more
fragmentary parts of an X quantity, we cannot logically ask you
to sit and reason with us; for the art of reasoning is also but a
fragmentary part of the action of the mind and brain and its
action is entirely dependent on the nature of the individual. So,
all that we can possibly do with one another is to express our
thoughts in as concise a männer as we can, and leave whom
ever we are conversing with to draw his own conclusions from
them.
And so we say to you, as clearly and plainly as we know
how to do, that what have been erroneously taken for corpses
on the astral level are the thought-forms of the dead and the
living—as those words are commonly understood. These thought-
forms issue not only from the so-called wakeful States of aware-
ness of human minds on both sides of the veil, but are manu-
37
factured and projected from the many levels of consciousness of
the individual. And, as man is an inherent believer in good-and-
evil, the results of his contact with his fellowman—whether in
person or by means of his thought-forms—will be good or evil.
The degree of life and intelligence of a thought-form depends
purely on the life and intelligence of its creator, and the quality
and quantity of desire he or she used in making it.
Thought-forms are often contacted and conversed within
seance rooms, as many unbiased psychic investigators have at-
tested. Spiritualistic history is well spotted with highly authen-
ticated instances of fictional characters—the “brain-children” of
authors and writers of all kinds—appearing in seance rooms.
*
*As an example of this, the character “Cassius” from Shakespeare’s Julius
Caesar was reported by a member of the “Inner Circle” to be in attend-
ance at one of the Mark Probert seances.—ED.
This sort of phenomenon has been very irksome—putting it
mildly—to the average investigator, adding greatly to his already
confused outlook on survival, and often causing the actions of the
human personality to become to him such a hopeless enigma
that he gives up in disgust and frustration. This rather unhappy
result never takes place with the truly scientific mind, for such
minds do not permit their own personalities to enter into their
efforts but keep themselves in a constant state of detachment.
The greater the seeming mystery, the more expanded becomes
their detached approach to it.
Now, let us go back to our discussion of what are called
“thought-forms” of fictional characters. A thought-form is ex-
actly what the term implies—that is, a form built by thinking,
by imagery; and we motivate it into action by thinking how it
should move according to its structural nature.
The longer and deeper we center our Creative forces on an
idea, the more life and substance we imbue it with; and if we
permit it to escape out of our very personified field of conscious
creation, by the process we call “forgetting,” it will start moving
away from us into other fields of consciousness, attracted there
by the pull of desire existing in the creational fields of another
whether that other is in a dream state or wakeful state on the
physical plane or in one of the same States on the astral. How-
ever, it moves not alone by the lines of magnetic attraction of
38
another’s desire, but—due to its particular structure and degree
of life force, instilled in it by its creator—it seeks of its own
accord, by following the lines of least resistance, to find the most
natural channel to bring itself out of the world of thought and
into the world of three-dimensional reality. And, as surely as
darkness follows light and light follows darkness, all thought
forms built out of desire will and must do this.
Why must they? Simply because all that is, or ever shall
be, originated in the world of thought, which we may, for the
sake of convenience, call the inner side of the “magic bag,” but
in order to do the work it was created to do, it must be brought
to the outer. Now, when I use the term “outer” do I necessarily
mean the seeming outerness of your physical-chemical world?
No—for there is always a seeming outerness world for Man to
deal with. You have it in your dream world, as well as in the
so-called death world.
Let us now consider so-called fictional characters—can there
really be such a thing as a purely fictional character? We do not
think so for the very moment an author mentally creates a char­
acter, no matter what the nature of its form, he will be causing
that character to be doing some of the acts of a human being
who lives, or once lived, in the physical-chemical world, and in
that instant it ceases to be an entirely fictional character. Once
imbued with that one human-like trait, it becomes a living, breath-
ing entity, which can not only appear in a seance room as a
discarnate being, but can so impress itself upon a living being
as to almost entirely wash out his personality and take over his
body. This would be classified as “obsession by a fictional entity,”
and such cases are more difficult to break than those obsessed
by a discarnate being—the difficulty of it lying in the fact that
the individual becomes so charmed by the traits of the fictional
character, due to his boredom with his own, that he willingly
and gladly permits his own personality to be over-shadowed by
the “make-believe” one. As a rule, obsession by a former living
personality is committed not only without the willing consent of
the one so obsessed but often with no conscious intent to do so
on the part of the discarnate being.
All of this, friends, may seem to be irrelevant to reincarna-
tion but it is by no means so, as you will see for yourself the
39
moment that I ask you, “What is it that reincarnates? What ex-
actly is the ‘personality,’ ‘the ego,’ or ‘the seif’?” And while you
are asking yourself these questions, try to remember that all of
the above words used to designate that which we believe reim-
bodies, are merely tags, Jabels placed on “things” or forms of
action that are so completely abstract in and of themselves that
it would be literally impossible for any of us on either side of
“the bag” to deal with. So, while it is out of pure necessity that
tags and labels must be used, do not permit yourself to be lured
into the belief that these tags and labels are the things in them­
selves. For I can promise you that, should you do so now, in
the natural course of your growth you will find yourself up against
a stone wall over which you can neither climb nor detour and
your only chance to pass it at all will be in going back to the point
of your mistake and becoming aware of it as such.
The only avenue leading to complete freedom lies in your
ability to cast out orthodox tradition and its endless fears and
uncertainties, and strike out boldly into life’s stream with only
the oars of your own convictions to keep you safely in the deep
and broad center of the stream. You need but to know that “I
and the Father are one” to have a Pilot that will ride you safely
out of every storm, and through rocks and shoals as though they
were not there. But you must remember that this Pilot will not
come to you until you are ready to receive Hirn.
Let us now take a look at what is called “death” and see, at
least to some degree, its nature and what takes place with what
is referred to as the Soul, the Spirit, the Psyche, or—as the Egyp-
tians sometimes called it—the Ka. These are but a few of the
many hundreds of names or labels placed upon the life-spark
or Force that operates the physical-chemical body. What is this
Force? That we cannot teil you, for It is nameless, and to at-
tempt to name It does in no wise make It what It is named, nor
in the least explain Its nature and existence. Your Christian is
probably the only one who considers himself capable of explain-
ing the nature of the Nameless and all that is to happen to It.
Be that as it may, all that we can teil you concerning It is
some of Its actions at certain stages; and even in this we must
advise you not to so accept it as to become indolent in your own
efforts to find out whether or not we speak the truth, for in so
40
doing you would to that degree destroy the true purpose of these
writings—though the destruction of the purpose of these writings
would not be nearly so great an evil as would the denial of your
own personal efforts.
To return to the discussion of what, for convenience’s sake, we
shall call “the psychic body”—at the time of death, or Separation
from its physical vehicle under what may be termed normal con-
ditions, its withdrawal takes place either from the solar plexus or
the top of the head. I do not mean to imply that those two points
are the only ones through which the psychic seif can leave its
material seif. Quite often, in fact, the psychic body, starting from
the head, rises out of its physical shell all at once, as is done in
projection. It may be extremely aware of its transition, or it may
be asleep, in which case, the actions it goes through are being
impelled either by another discarnate being acting as a helper, or
by its own mind impulses working from another level.
It appears to me, after years of study, that the majority of
after-death sleepers are those who have had certain forms of
serious mental illness for prolonged periods or have suffered a
great deal of physical pain. But, whatever the reason, these souls
are well guarded and tended by astral helpers so that they cannot
be harmed by certain kinds of degenerate forces.
Many very elderly people have a strong tendency to stay asleep
for quite a long period after the transition. Especially is this true
of those who had lost interest in things in the latter years of their
earthly life. However, if they are in good mental condition, they
are not permitted to sleep too long.
Children who have reached the age of two years or more are
awake on the astral plane almost immediately but if they come
over before that twenty-four month period, they will continue to
sleep. The state of consciousness they are in is quite different
from the sleep consciousness of the elderly, however. It is the
sleep of desire, into which that one feil in Order to come to the
Earth, and from which it does not fully awaken for a full twenty-
four month period of Earth life. But for very rare exceptions, such
souls are not awakened, for within the next nine to twenty-four
months’ time, these souls will find another opportunity to try
again to return to physical life.
41
There are as many kinds of sleep and trance conditions on
the astral planes as there are on the Earth, and it is because of
this and thought-forms that the theory of astral shells have been
taught. When a not sufficiently experienced individual on the
astral planes comes into mental rapport with one of these sleepers,
it is not at all stränge that he should mistake it for a corpse, for
it can talk of little eise than its earthly life’s experiences, over
and over again, just as an individual who has had a long physically
and mentally wearying day would talk and act it all out again in
his sleep at night.
Thought forms are constantly adrift in the astral, being pulled
hither and yon by the thought currents flowing out from minds on
Earth and the astral levels. Many of them are going through end-
less States of modification and some are even destroyed due to
their uselessness over long periods of time. By “destroyed,” I
simply mean that the substance out of which they are formed is
dissipated into the formless state as water when it is turned into
steam.
The astral body of a human being, however, never goes through
death and dissipation, but when the desire to re-embody on the
Earth becomes strong enough it causes that one to fall into a deep
sleep state which is very much on the Order of the hypnotic state
of lethargy. As an astral being goes deeper and deeper into this
state of one-pointed concentration, the force of his desire, the
energy thus expended, creates a form of heat that drives apart
the molecules out of which his astral body is made. But as the
molecules on the outer regions of his body drop in temperature
very rapidly, they start rushing back together again due to their
natural affinity for one another. The continued outward rush of
the central molecules, however, forces the outer ones (which are
now trying to regain their original position) off their course. Their
action then creates a spiral vortex that is ever rushing inward,
until the entire astral body becomes but a brilliant point of light.
This point of light is what is known as the Soul Seed.
Friends, while I am going to attempt to give you some further
descriptive talk on this which is called the Soul Seed, I feel it
necessary to warn you, again and again, that in our pursuit of
knowledge concerning life we are dealing with what many of us
on both sides of the veil have been taught to believe are concrete
42
things—namely, words. And more disconcerting still is the fact
that almost all thinking is done by imagery, or picture-making.
Knowing this, no teacher in his right mind would even so much as
lend his pupil the idea that he is expounding the nature of life and
“things” as indisputable facts. For instance—where does the talk
on the action of the atom leave off and the nature of the atom in
itself begin?
In our humble opinion, the ding an sich, or “thing-in-itself”
cannot be discussed in any way, and can only be known through
Self-realization. All that can be talked about or in any other way
“known” is but forms of action or motion taking place within the
Self, but—due to the nature of its physical extension called a body
—it falls under the illusion that action or motion is an outward
occurrence.
Perhaps, if I express this thought in slightly different terms
you may see it in a somewhat better light and thereby understand
it more fully. Due to the environment, the brain—through the
nerve system—has been trained, under the law of repetition, to
receive and correlate in endless degrees and shades, all forms of
action in terms that are best understood to you.
We, the members of the “Inner Circle,” have received some
criticism in the past with regard to our terminology—our critics
stating that “no highly educated person would use such simple
words. Our only reply to this complaint is this: these writings
were not intended for the scholarly person alone and to use large,
complicated words when small, plain words will be more under-
standable to the average reader, would but defeat our desired
ends. And, besides all this, is the fact that life is simplicity itself
when we get to know it. With that off my ghostly ehest, we can
proceed with the discussion at hand.
The human entity, once having—through desire and the power
of concentration—turned all the mind energy that went to make
up his astral body in upon himself, can no longer be in any way
contacted either by anyone on your side nor ours. He is con-
cerned only with re-embodying, and will not be conscious of any-
thing eise until he has accomplished his mission.
Now, a Soul Seed can only be described as a spark of light
with positive and negative poles of attraction and repulsion and it
is through these lines of force that it seeks and eventually finds the
43
proper male body to father it on the Earth plane.
In choosing its parent, this rapidly vibrating point of light is not
what is called “consciously aware” of its action. Working only by
the law of inner urge or compulsion, its negative pole repulsion
keeps it away from that which is not yet ready to play a part in its
coming physical existence, and the positive pole automatically
pulls it towards all that is ready to play such a part by the law of
affinity or natural selection. And so the Soul Seed picks out its
male parent by its sensitivity toward both the mental and physical
vibrations of that one which are in keeping with its own.
On finding such a one, it darts toward him and is breathed in
by him and enters the bloodstream. Travelling through the blood-
stream it enters the generative organs and attacks the physical
seed in much the same way as the physical life germ later attacks
the “egg” in the female by pervading its atomic parts.
The act of the life Vibration pervading the physical seed in
this way instantly galvanizes the atomic particles of the physical
seed into vibrating at twice their normal Chemical speed. This rise
in motion of the Chemical particles is created by heat that is itself
created by force of energy that is expended when positive and
negative forces start working together. This action may be called
the mating of the atoms.
The instant a physical seed that has mated with the astral seed
has penetrated the ovum, or female egg, it Starts building stress
lines which can be looked upon as the etheric skeleton. These
stress lines are streams of positive electronic charges with a mag-
netic field of attraction to which Chemical molecules fly in ever-
increasing swarms and with ever-increasing heat temperatures,
until the physical-chemical body is complete, at which time it has
reached the norm of 98 degrees Fahrenheit.
Over a life-span of unspecified years the male is constantly
breathing in these life-forces or “soul seeds.” The number of kind
does not depend upon his age but rather upon the nature of the
Chemical changes that take place in his body and his state of mind.
Age itself has nothing to do with one’s sexual potency. Failure in
sexual powers, like all other failures in Man, begins in the psyche
brought about by the attitudes of mind to what is called outer
Stimuli.
44
The offending Stimuli may have taken place at the moment of
conception, impressing itself by molecular lines of force upon what
may be called the “mother-cell” or first building block of the
physical body—or, of course, at any time thereafter.
There are numerous modifications to be worked out by the
reincarnating ego in its efforts to create its physical machine, im-
posed there by the silent and spoken desires of the parents and
by the Chemical changes that various desires bring about in the
mother’s body.
The work the ego is doing is entirely automatic, in the same
way that a plant seed creates its form, the action being brought
about merely by what may be called the inner urge of all life to
create after its own likeness. However, the soul seed of what is
called a human being has an “I-am-I” quality latent within it, and
because it is doing its work in an already constructed body that is
itself imbued with that same quality, it is extremely open to sug-
gestions, especially those made by the mother’s desires. Herein
lies the field of inheritance, not only in the general physical weak-
nesses or strength of the body but personality traits as well.
The new body, in all of its ramifications, will be governed by
the number and quality of the hormones which it is able to manu-
facture from the Chemicals of the mother’s body. These hormones
are extremely complex Chemical compounds produced by the
endocrine glands and have a great deal to do with determining
the sex nature of an individual.
Then, there are equally complex substances known as genes.
The work of these little bodies is to register the physical char-
acteristics of one or both of the parents in one degree or another
and then impart their impressions to the mother-cell of the “new”
body. Sometimes, however, due to the great sensitivity of these
bodies, they can be made to register some of the physical char-
acteristics of any one of the ancestors of a family; or—to go further
—they may record in a blurred or confused way, and in so doing
cause blindness, or a crippled body and often what are called
freaks or “sports.”
Such blurred or confused recordings can be due to any one of
a number of things—such as fright or prolonged anxiety of the
expectant mother, or they may be due to some of the mental pic-
turing of the incoming entity itself, brought over from a past life.
45
Now, while a child may come into your world with many of
the traits and characteristics of his parents and may show a strong
tendency towards displaying them, the environment or conditions
in that environment may not permit him to do so. And, too, the
nature of his physical structure may be entirely against doing the
things his parents may have done.
While we have sometimes said in the past that all things are
a product of their environment, such a statement is not entirely
true where Man is concerned for there are many things apart from
an individual’s environment that may bring about drastic changes
in that one. And, too, there are certain ideas and desires that
are brought over from other lives that may very well cause him
to seek or make entirely different conditions to live under than
those into which he was born.
This is also true to a large degree where the inheritance of
certain traits of the parents is concerned. While the incarnating
ego could not avoid becoming attached to certain traits of the
parents while building his physical vehicle, as soon as he is able
to reason these traits may become quite repugnant to him and his
main efforts during his life-span may be spent in trying to escape
them.
Now, friends, what am I trying to say? Simply this: an indi­
vidual is his own environment. The traits, mannerisms or general
characteristics that he seems to have inherited and continues to
display are really his own by the law of love and attachment he
has had for them.
All things—and especially Man—are constantly seeking to be­
come individualized and while one may seem to have had certain
attributes foisted upon him by what is called inheritance, he can,
if he so wishes, discard the great majority of them as time goes on.
The matter of facial features and general body construction,
however, is quite a different thing and very little can be done to
change these. And yet one may veil them to such a degree by his
actions that only those with whom he has had close association
would see beyond these acts to the outward appearance of the
individual.
As has been said before, upon entering the physical world,
Man falls under a deep hypnotic spell, a condition he cannot avoid
46
due to the fact that the physical body is one large organ of feeling
poked into a three-dimensional plane while the owner of this organ
remains in a fourth dimensional state. Hearing, seeing, tasting and
smelling are but variations of the mechanics of feeling. The only
real purpose in having more than one channel of reception or sense
organ is to give the Self a broader field of receptivity of what is
taking place in the three-dimensional world, thus avoiding many
of the dangers It would encounter minus one or more of these
“feelers.” Of course, it is known that the loss of any one of the
senses can be overcome in a number of ways and by some to a
remarkable degree. Nevertheless, the clarity of reception is never
the same as before and therefore all the rest suffer degrees of loss
accordingly.
Let us go back for a moment to the principal part of this
chapter—reincamation. It appears that many exponents of this
law labor under the belief that when an individual goes through
the change called “death,” he pauses for a duration of time on the
low astral plane and then dies again, leaving another corpse for
others to contend with while he glides on to a peaceful state of
bliss called “Nirvana.”
Aside from the fact that no stipulated time is mentioned that
a newly-departed person may spend on the low astral, nor can this
time element be reckoned with as a norm for everyone, there are
many other things to be taken into consideration and none of them
have anything to do with emotional opinions concerning the ac-
tivity of what is called “Nature.”
Some teachers, as well as students of occult laws, with all their
seeming knowledge (and perhaps because of it) are just as narrow
and orthodox in their views as any illiterate religious bigot. Be­
cause their guru or priest makes an assertion, they too go around
asserting the same thing and believing it to be the last word in
truth. And, worse still, these people feel it to be a sacrilege to do
their own private seeking. They glow with pride at their own ignor-
ance. For instance, many Catholics will not attend a gathering
where communication with the so-called dead takes place for their
priests have informed them that they are, if anything, conversing
with evil spirits, or helpers of “Satan.” Such a Statement to the
ignorant naturally acts as a whiplash of fear that keeps one from
the opportunity of conversing with his loved ones who have with-
47
drawn from the physical world.
Many followers of occult teachings are not very much better
in this respect, for some of the self-styled gurus teil them that they
are not really conversing with their dead but with the shades of
corpses of the dead which are but bodies of “recorded memories”
that can teil them nothing worth listening to, and that the “true
seif” of the departed one has gone on to rest in a beautiful state
of quietude where he will dream away all memory of Earth life.
Anyone who attempts to make contact with him, according to
these teachings, is foolish and selfish in their desires to detain that
one from his well-earned rest.
Just what these teachers of such a theory mean by “well-
earned rest” is difficult to understand. However, they do concede
that on very rare occasions and for special reasons, a discarnate
being is permitted to become aware of a loved one he or she has
left on the Earth plane—but such a gracious act on the part of the
discarnate one and whoever it is that allegedly “permits” his Corn­
ing is mainly for the purpose of alleviating the supposed anguish
which the Earth one is suffering due to the Separation that “death”
has wrought between them. Apart from this little sentimental act
—which has no more meaning to it than the giving of a stick of
candy to a whining child—no other communication, they say, can
or should be made with the “dead.” And they want all those who
engage in such practice to understand that they are dealing in
necromancy, which is an abomination to life and they should
therefore be classified as “witches” and should not be suffered
to live!
Friends, 1 have no desire to change your beliefs, nor could I do
so, however I may desire, for only you can make such changes.
Therefore, if you find these teachings comforting to live with, by
all means hold on to them! They are yours by the right of your
degree of understanding. To those of you who have advanced
somewhat further along the Path, I say this: that which is called
“death” is but a crude interpretation of the word “change.” The
word “death” implies cessation of all activity. To accept a law of
inactivity would be to believe that action or motion can rise out
of inactivity, or nothingness and to follow such a theory would
but force you to assume a definite beginning and end to life and
consciousness of any kind.
48
All attempts at such reasoning leads one but to the blank wall
of hopelessness and despair, so let us who are fearlessly and hon-
estly seeking inner wisdom avoid such thoughts as we would shun
the plague. And this applies to such teachings as those conceming
“shades” and “astral corpses” and “devils” and “witches” and the
personal God and vicarious atonement by a personal Savior.
True, there are forces that can work an evil for you but you
need only to refrain from centering your thoughts in their direc-
tion to avoid them. And, true, there is a kind of personal Savior
and God—but these are not apart from you. Indeed, they are you.
The word “Christ” is a title and it is bestowed upon each and
every individual on Earth—but only after many life experiences
does each one gain that glorious title, by diligently working for
it, not simply by being kindly and following the laws made in your
own environment, while very commendable, has no bearing on at-
taining the Christ state.
Remember, let nothing keep you from constantly striving in
this direction. I say to you in the most sincere way I know, there
is no other way to attain your final freedom from the steel chains
that bind you to the hell of material living and regain your lost
paradise which lies in the vast and beautiful Etheric World.
49
ALI BEN CASI
50
SLEEP, PROJECTION and DEATH
Al Ben Casi:
Physical science, for the most part, knows next to nothing
about these three States of consciousness. Sleep is considered a
normal form of action through which the great majority of all
forms containing consciousness must go but when projection of the
consciousness is referred to in any but metaphysical groups, it is,
as a rule, met either with stony silence or something little short
of contempt. And the word “death” is spoken of either in awed
whispers or with a cynical “Oh-we-all-have-to-die-sometime” at-
titude.
Of course such negative ways of looking upon any form of
action in life are to be considered but avenues of escapism. Deny-
ing the existence of a thing by refusing to look at it in no way
changes the fact that that thing or condition is there and, since it
belongs in life’s pattern, must be squarely faced at some time.
Being the possessor of the mechanism called a brain is no sure
sign that we have risen above the animal state and are now to be
classified as “thinkers,” having the ability to do what is called
“reason.”
All things must live first in order to die and die in Order to
live. We must be awake to sleep, and asleep to awaken. All
things are in a constant state of sleep and wakefulness, and life
and death, and in varying degrees; and yet nothing is ever en-
tirely dead or alive, asleep or awake. Some who are obviously
not close observers have said of sleep that it is akin to the death
state. This is by no means true and but proves that we still are
but surface observers when we so speak. The form of activity
that the physical body goes through is decidedly different in the
sleep act from that of the death act.
It is thought, from the physical standpoint, that the desire
for sleep is brought about by certain Chemicals of the body
which, acting like opiates, attack certain brain and nerve cells,
thus rendering one unconscious; that from the moment of our
awakening the activity of the brain and body Starts to manu-
facture these Chemicals in small or large quantities, according
to the nature of the activity. Body consciousness, alone seems
51
to bring about the desire to sleep.
The reason for this is simply that all of the cells through-
out the body, if constantly supplied with the proper amount of
combustible fuel, will stay in a conscious and intelligent state
of activity, but it is only a matter of time before combustion—
that means the production of the lowest form of energy, called
heat—has filled the bloodstream with an ash of an extremely
acid nature. This acid slows down the motion of the cells of
the blood and if an excessive amount is poured into the blood­
stream, it will create such a lack of motion of the cells that
Stagnation will turn the blood to sludge. If this condition be­
comes acute, it will cause the Separation of the consciousness
from the body, called “death.”
The secret of what may be termed “material consciousness”
lies in particular forms of vibratory motion of the cellular struc-
ure of the body. Each part of the body—such as the blood,
bones, tissues—have their own rhythm that is exclusively theirs;
and yet they are, to some degree, aided by one another thus
keeping the entire machine in harmonious activity.
Now, in all three of these forms of activity—sleep, pro­
jection and death—there is a withdrawing of the consciousness
from the body, but in each case the nature of the withdrawal
is decidedly different. In what is called the normal sleep state,
a kind of duality of the awareness sense exists. A split takes
place the moment an individual falls into the sleep state. One
part of the awareness sense keeps its attention upon the general
physical functions of the body while the other seeks to gather
inner knowledge in what is called the dream-world. It does this
by taking the stresses that have been impressed on the nervous
System through the wakeful hours of the individual and forming
them into various Symbols, and then “reading” them.
Its “reading” is done, first by forming itself into a double
of the sleeper and then acting out all the things that are taking
place in the dream. Thus “living” the part of the dreamer, it
is able to register an experience in the same männer as would
the dreamer in his or her wakeful state via the nerve-system
of the physical body. If the “dream-self” is sufficiently impressed by
what it has experienced in its dream world, it forms Strong stress
lines along the nerve System of the physical body of the sleeper
52
so that when the one awakens to his material awareness, he
will remember clearly what went on in the dream world.
The remembering of what went on in a dream, however,
does not by any means imply that the physical seif has been
able to decipher the inner symbolic meaning of the dream. The
ability to Interpret dreams correctly has been lost so far back
in the dusty halls of time that if one shows any signs of it today,
he is considered to be a freak, and if his talent is patronized,
it is mostly as a matter of curiosity. The Ancients—as even
your Christian Bible will teil you—always had their dream In­
terpreters. They were a necessary part of every royal house.
Many of these dream Interpreters were profound scholars of
life, and knew well the physical and psychological nature of
the people they dealt with.
In your modern times you do have dream interpreters, but
they would freeze you to death with a lofty optical if you gave
them any such title, and would inform you—with the monetary
sign dripping from every word—that they are “psychiatrists” or
“psychologists.” And if you think those are not expensive titles,
just look at your bill after visiting one of them!
Those who know us and the work we have been earnestly
striving to do over the past five years, will be aware of the fact
that while at times we may appear to be sarcastic and overly
critical of your present pseudo-learned men and women and their
methods, we are not by any means unmindful of the truly great
minds who have spent lifetimes in sincere efforts to unravel the
mystery of Man’s physical and mental nature. For such men
as Jung, Adler, Freud, and others of the same cloth, we have
nothing but the most profound respect. That they all disagreed
in their opinions with one another to some degree is to be ex-
pected. Indeed, we would say that it is in the “no-man’s land”
lying between the borders of their disagreement that the truth
of what they were trying to express can be found. And more—
had all of them agreed letter-perfect with each other, the phe-
nomenon would have necessitated the hiring of the Honorable
Mr. Wiesmann and his “Id” to examine their separate individual
“Ids” to determine why and how all of these “Ids” worked in
such precise harmony.
Now let us return for the moment to the consideration of
53
the sleep-and-dream States, and have another look at some of
the numerous forms of the activity that goes on there. For one
reason or another, known only to the “dream seif,” it may sud-
denly feel called upon to leave its very personalized and abstract
world and enter the three-dimensional concrete world. When
this takes place, it is called “projection.”
If we will bear in mind that there is no existence outside or
apart from Mind—that time, space and things are but forms
of mind activity—we will be better prepared to understand that
the word “projection,” like the word “activity” conveys the idea
called motion. But motion, like all eise, can in no way be com-
prehended without one of the senses of the body, whether that
body is of physical-chemical matter or the body of a discarnate
being on any of the “planes” of consciousness, without exception.
At the same time, while any one or all of our senses may
teil us that a certain form of action is taking place, that partic-
ular form of action so registered on the senses may be non­
existent. In fact, a series of varied types of motion that are
non-registerable to the physical senses may be going on; and
an individual, according to his physical and mental needs, takes
these series of varied non-registerable lines of motion and makes
them into both observable and, to him, understandable things.
This, then, is why it is said that all is maya, or illusion.
For instance, man never sees the lines of force called “light,”
nor, indeed, does he see light at all; but what he does see is
some of the work that light is doing, such as reflection. He is
not, then, seeing or in any way sensing the actions of the light,
but the reactions.
The sun, it is said, is the source of our earth light—but it
may well be only a huge cosmic reflector made up of many
trillions of lines of energized matter. “But energized by what?”
you may ask. The only answer we of the “Inner Circle” have
to that is: “By what is known as the Life Force.” But what is
the Life Force? Of itself, its nature is electrical and positive
but when it mates with lower Chemical matter to make what is
called “form,” it is mating with a negative and is transformed
into heat energy. The form then is held together by the ex-
tremely rapid motion of the heat molecules producing lines of
force called a magnetic field.
54
The intensity of the magnetic field around any body depends
upon both the size and the point of solidification of that body.
The greater the state of so-called solidness, the less expansive
or intensive in power the electronic field; and this seems to be
due to loss of heat energy from the core or nucleus of the atom.
It causes the electronic bodies to fall towards the center or nu­
cleus. Now, should the electronic bodies continue their fall and
plunge into their central sun it would cause what would amount
to a tremendous explosion by driving apart the many bodies
that go to make up the nucleus.
This rending of the central body creates and lets loose tre­
mendous amounts of radiant heat-energy and the attempt of the
exploded particles to re-group, forms new substances.
It seems that, in our effort to give you a somewhat clearer
picture concerning Mind and some of its forms of activity, such
as dreams and projections, we have wandered off the metaphys-
ical path and onto the path of what is rather loosely called
“material physics.” It is hardly to be expected that we can
ever talk of one of these approaches to life without bringing
in the other, for indeed they are the very material out of which
“the magic bag” is made. Metaphysics is the inner side; mater­
ial physics, the outer. However this may be, let us now go
back to the activity called “projection.”
Just what are the mechanics of projection? The word itself
means simply “to send forth one thing from or out of another
thing,” and so “projection” in this particular case means to send
forth one body from another body. The one sent is called the
psychic body; the one that it springs from is called the physical-
chemical body.
Now, it would and perhaps does seem to many who have
made a study of this subject that we have here two wholly and
distinctly different bodies to be considered; but from my per­
sonal observations and general studies, I feel that the idea of
two bodies—one moving “out” from the other—while not en-
tirely erroneous, is yet maya or an illusion that is brought about
due to our conceptions of space-t'me and motion, to say nothing
of our almost hypnotic belief in the concreteness of matter.
Now, the word “psyche” is a noun meaning “the Soul” or
“Mind,” so the term “psychic body” means a mind-body. This
55
mind-body is supposed to be something different from the ma­
terial body—but it is not. For the material body is also a mental
body having been formed by the mental stresses of the ego that
was to abide in it.
When I say the Ego abides in its physical vehicle, that expres-
sion may lead you back to the idea of the existence of two
separate bodies, one living in the other; but let us try not to
let terminology lead us astray in our thinking. There is but the
one body and that we call the mental body. Any and all others
that may seem to arise out of this one are but the modus operandi
of the One, to create an expanded or a contracted sense of
awareness, according to the needs of that particular Ego that
is seeking greater understanding.
A word now to the many of you who have experienced
what is called consciously willed psychic projection. You, no
doubt, will say, “But I know from my own personal experience
that there are two bodies because I have feit my inner or psychic
seif rise out of my physical body and have then looked back
upon that physical body and have seen it lying very still as
though asleep or dead.” I am quite aware of such existing con-
ditions, and do not at all doubt what you may say. I know also
of the existence of what is called the aka cord, sometimes re-
ferred to as the “silver cord.” This cord is extremely flexible
and hollow. Its hollowness permits an energy flow from the
physical body to the astral, psychic, or mental body, as you
may wish to call it. Some may think that this cord or tube
Stretches as the psychic body moves away from its physical
counterpart, but it does not. It is played out from the solar
plexus or central part of the physical body as it is needed, to
give a greater sense of freedom of action to the psychic body.
The aka cord runs from the solar plexis (which is some­
times called “the big brain,” and is the central source of the
nervous System of the physical body), and is attached either
to the base of the skull or the base of the spine of the psychic
body. It does not make too much difference to which end of
the spine it is joined, for the purpose is to give the psychic
body a connecting link with the physical nerve System of its
material seif, so that its attention will not veer from the physi­
cal world in which it is operating and become lost to it. The
56
snapping of this cord during the act of projecting would, of
course, mean death for the physical body and present extreme
difficulties for the psychic seif in its efforts to effect any further
contact of a continuous kind with the physical world.
While all of the above Statements have been proven true by
many who have experienced what is called “consciously willed
psychic projection,” many of the conditions found in conscious
projection are entirely absent in either a dream projection (which
I prefer to call “externalization of the dream-self”), or in many
kinds of that which is called subconscious projection. For in-
stance, there is no connecting cord running between the exter-
nalized dream seif and its physical counterpart that lies sleeping.
Yet this extemalized dream-self can roam at large, going any-
where its thoughts command it to go, and to all intents and
purposes looking and acting exactly like its physical seif that
is lying perhaps thousands of miles away in a comatose state.
If the “sleeping” body were to be examined at that time, it
would be found to be very low in all its functional activity,
such as respiration, heart and pulse beats, blood pressure and
general Output of Chemicals from the glandular System, and very
cold in surface temperature.
The reason for this almost deathlike state of the physical
is quite obvious, I am sure, to those who have made a study
of projection, but for the benefit of those who know nothing
of the mechanics but who possibly have experienced this con­
dition—and undoubtedly there are many more who have done
so than any of you realize—I shall try to teil in the simplest
possible terms the mechanics of this perhaps novel, but none-
theless natural phenomenon.
By impact of mind force almost all of the physical body
energies are drained off, to be used to build what seems to be
a physical double of the sleeper. Now, this act on the part of
the dream-self is rarely aware that it is existing in a dream
world. Too, it is very sensitive to Suggestion and will seek with-
out question and with tremendous force of effort to accomplish
that which the physical seif would not only feel was impossible,
but entirely irrational.
Your psychologists would call this dream-self the subcon­
scious mind or seif, and they have taught that the subconscious
57
seif is without reasoning ability or power and therefore can only
act on Suggestion. Foregoing for the moment our objection to
the term “subconscious,” we will agree with them that the sub-
conscious does little or no reasoning. I doubt, however, that
we would get more than a dim, impatient smile from most of
these students of the mind if we were to try to Iure them out
of their learned stupor with the Suggestion (tentative, of course
—because none of us know precisely what is meant by “reason”
and “logic”) that the so-called conscious mind does not reason
either—except, of course, in relation to its surroundings in the
material world. And even here the conscious mind is so trained
to accept so much that is not true and so little that is, in your
ever-increasingly complex civilizations, that it is not capable of
doing more than surface thinking, not to mention the art of
reasoning.
That the so-called subconscious mind shows no desire to
reason things out should make it obvious that what is called
the “Self,” or “I” of an individual never really accepts any
form of learning but that which it gets from itself and there­
fore knows is true. It does this simply because it, and it alone,
knows what is good for its own growth. This “I” knows nothing
about good or evil as is taught by physical men, purely as a
safeguard to his physical environment.
It may seem, judging from surface reflexes, that we are
teaching an individual how to do this or that, but this is not
so. We are but causing that one to recall that which he has
always known. And again I say, if that which you are teaching
is not acceptable to the Self of that one, the teacher may go
through all männer of mental gymnastics, or beat his pupil half
to death in an effort to get him to understand and accept what
he is being told, but it will all be in vain. Indeed, if the phys­
ical seif, by surface action, carries out that which the “I” rejects as
useless to it, you may look for one kind or another of chronic
bodily ailment to take place in that one—or even sudden death.
Knowing this should be one of Man’s greatest reasons for the
belief in perfect freedom of action for every individual.
It is well indeed for Man that the so-called subconscious
is indifferent to that high-toned word called “reasoning”—for
if it were not, neither the world in which you now abide nor
58
the universe and universes throughout all space could have come
into being. For none of it was conceived in the realm of what
the material consciousness assumes to be reasoning. Had the
great Cosmic Mind conceived a universe by the process of rea­
soning, it would have been so mechanical in its nature that it
would have destroyed itself every time it tried to manifest itself
in three-dimensional form. In a world of pure reason there
could exist no such wonderful form of mental activity as the
Imagination—and it is in this bareless world of imagination or
deductive thinking, that the “subconscious” works.
The subconscious reminds one of a spider crouching in a
dark hole, silently and unobtrusively waiting for the flies of
Suggestion to light on its web (the conscious mind), when it
will instantly pounce upon them, sting out their life, called “logic.”
Then the digestive process will turn them all into a seething
mass of inference, part of which will go to perpetuate the web
of material consciousness, and part to its world of imagination
and dreams.
The material consciousness then becomes the spider and
pounces (with a great deal more caution) on one or two piles
of secretion called “inferences” caught in its web, “the subcon­
scious.” Instead of killing it—or them, as the case may be—it
injects once more the exciting life of reason into it and replaces
its body fluids by bidding it to drink from the cup of logic—and
therewith it becomes a bright and sparkling thing of use in the
three-dimensional world of man.
Now, let us return once more and take up where we left
off on the mechanics of the externalization of the dream-self.
As we have said, the dream-self seldom realizes it is acting in
anything other than a very real, concrete world, so when it
receives a message in the form of a nerve impulse from the
part of the consciousness that was left to guard the physical body,
it does not stop to consider either the authenticity of the source
of the message or the possibility of carrying out its command.
Let us pretend that in this particular instance the “message”
reads something like this: “Remember John Doe.” You and he
were close friends; there is a tie that was formed between you
when you two were together in city. Why don’t you
go and see him?
59
Now, even though we are pretending the above message,
it is not at all likely that the dream-self would receive the
“message” in that männer; but the nerve impulses from the
memory cells of the brain of the physical body would be taken
by the dream-self and turned into many implications and in-
ferences in the form of symbols, and somewhere among these
symbolic forms (which may be telling him of a happening in
his early childhood, or of his nine months in his mother’s womb,
or of a previous life, or an experience yet to come), will arise
a symbol that instantly brings to mind “John Doe” and his
emotional connections with that one.
That symbol may be in the form of a bit of clothing or in
a scene, or a particular object in the scene; but, whatever form
it takes, it represents “John Doe,” and no one eise. From there
all depends on the depth and strength of emotional attachment
that the physical seif had for John Doe. The nature of the
attachment may be hate or lust or love—it makes no difference
for all three are equally powerful forces or attraction.
Let us say the emotional tie is very strong and deep and
it is one of love. The dream-self would instantly enter John
Doe’s life stream of consciousness. The moment we enter an-
other’s consciousness stream, we are in direct rapport with that
one; and to make such contact with another of our fellow
beings is much more concise and revealing in all its ramifica-
tions than any physical-chemical meeting could possibly be, for
in all contacts of the latter nature we invariably confront one
another with a mask of some kind. No matter how open and
sincere we try to be, nor how deeply we love, there is always
a portion of ourselves that we keep behind a locked door. But
when we enter another’s field of consciousness, we are en rapport
with a something that knows nothing about masks or concealing
secrets.
It may be termed a personal-impersonal thing. Its personal
nature rises out of the fact that it belongs to what is called an
individual being; it is specifically that one’s creation, and its
impersonal quality comes from its being a pure electronic field
—and I am sure you will agree that there is nothing more im­
personal than an electronic field.
Before I can give you a clear picture of what sets off the
60
mechanism to cause the dream-self to enter the concrete world,
we must take a few Steps back again to where the dream-self
encounters the symbol that represents John Doe. As I said, this
symbol may be of a concrete kind—such as a hat, a glove, or
any other piece of clothing or bric-a-brac that the physical dream-
er was aware of John Doe’s having worn or having had physical
contact with, during their personal relationship. But it also
may appear in the nature of a very abstract kind of symbol—
which may either be very complex or may be simplicity itself.
But neither its complexity or simplicity will keep the dream-
self from reading John Doe’s personality into it.
The question that now faces us, of course, is “How does
the dream-self take these abstract or concrete Symbols and use
them as a means of entering John Doe’s personal stream of con-
sciousness?” How, indeed, did they enter the dreamer’s dream
world to begin with? To answer the latter would be to almost
answer the former, or vice versa, with a reverse procedure.
To be very frank with you, we must confess that our effort to
describe things to one another is almost a helpless task. This very
disconcerting Situation is far more difficult between yourselves on
the physical-chemical plane than it is on ours. To give you an
instance of this, suppose I should start describing my general ap-
pearance to you. I begin by saying I am a male. Now, what kind
of an actual picture does this word “male” paint in your mind’s
eye? Certainly not any of a concrete nature, for the word “male”
is entirely lacking in personality, but, for a great many apparent
reasons, your mind automatically assumes in this instance that I am
a male human being. So your mind first assumes my “human-
ness” qualities before it does the nature of my sex. Nevertheless,
no actual picture-making can arise in the mind’s eye yet, for the
simple reason that there have been many billions of human males
on the Earth. Considering this, the terms human and male are but
abstracts of a kind with which the human (so-called) mind can-
not deal. As spoken words, however, they excite the nervous Sys­
tem of the ears, by irritation, into producing a series of electronic
impulses that “travel” to certain cells of the brain—not by running
on the outside of the fibrous nerves alone, as may seem to be the
case where electrical impulses travel on a wire by creating a mag-
netic field on the outer surface of the wire—but these nerve im­
61
pulses excite the entire atomic structure of a nerve, and the atoms
so put into motion create a similar magnetic field all along the
outside portion of the Aber.
The same is true of all the five senses of the physical body—
all working through the law of what is called pressure—pressure
created by motion. Are atoms themselves actually moved? Not
actually, but their electronic fields are disturbed and to the ratio
that these satellite bodies are disturbed will be the amount and
intensity of frictional heat created.
The created friction on the atom is accomplished by what is
called induction, and works according to the law of the inverse
square of the distance of the satellite bodies from the nucleus.
Any disturbance of the electronic bodies from their normal
orbit will instantly create frictional heat by disturbing the gravita-
tional pressures that exist between the electronic bodies and the
nucleus of the atom. The nucleus registers the release of pressure
by expanding, and the act of expansion, or momentary Separation
of the infinitesimal and complex particles, creates degrees of fric­
tion to take place in the nucleus that escapes in the form of pure
heat. If the entire electronic field is destroyed the nucleus will
disintegrate in a bürst of pure heat energy, the series of particles—
or rays, as they are called—moving at various rates of speed as
they erupt in spiral formation from deeper and deeper within the
heart of the nucleus.
Now, as all of what is called “thinking” releases heat currents
from the atoms that go to make up the nerves, these currents, upon
reaching the brain, excite the cells into an expanding and con-
tracting kind of motion. This respiratory-like action on the part of
the cells is brought about by the heat currents exciting the hundreds
of minute granules that float around in an acid liquid in the cells.
The heat Charge, passing through the acid, contacts every one of
the granules, causing them to discharge electrons into the acid. A
change takes place in the acid, the nature of which is a breakdown
of its constituent particles. This action may be called oxidation
of the cells, for it destroys all toxins in the cells and so exhilarates
the cells that they send off a series of positive electrical charges that
register on the mind-self in definite patterns that are never again
erased. It is these mind patterns which are made up of electronic
stresses in the psyche that the dream-self uses as building blocks
62
for its world by turning them into symbolic pictures.
As I have previously said, so much depends on the depth of
the emotional relationship that existed between the sleeper and
this “John Doe”—who, of course, may be any one of his blood
relatives or a close friend, that no one could predict the dream-
self’s reaction to the John Doe symbol any more that they could
foretell the reactions of the sleeper in what is called his wakeful
state. As all mind is One Mind, with endless potentialities for
action and variations of action, the individual, awake or asleep,
has a vast field in which to work.
The dream-self may simply take the electronic stresses that
represent John Doe as the sleeper last saw him and build them into
a thought form or picture image of him, in which case it will not
say any more to him than that which they conversed about when
they were together. And even though the dream-self may teil this
image of many things of which the sleeper has acquired knowledge
since his Separation from John Doe, the image will answer either
in a very non-committal way (which will be because the sleeper
knew not the answers himself), or give no answer at all—for the
same reason. If, however, the sleeper does know the answers to
his questions or Statements, not realizing he is dreaming, he will
cause the image to confirm his viewpoints; and anywhere in the
ensuing conversation that the sleeper was uncertain about his be-
liefs concerning something, the image also will be uncertain. It
will appear at these points of uncertainty that the image is stop-
ping to think and reason, and from this kind of action, the dream-
self will feel that the image is carrying on intelligent conversation
with him.
On the other hand, the dream-self may come into contact with
the dream-self of John Doe, in which case they will both talk
intelligently to one another, imparting knowledge they had gathered
while separated. Now, if the emotional tie between the two is
somewhere near equal in depth and sincerity, they will both re-
member the meeting and conversation. If it is one-sided in depth
and sincerity, the one with the deeper emotional attachment will
recall the dream; and, worse, or bettet yet—as you may feel about
it—he will also know the true level of John Doe’s emotional at­
tachment for him. (For let it be remembered that in all but the
physical state of consciousness, we expose our true nature to one
63
r
another.)
Assuming your permission, I wish to digress here for a moment
to teil you that—if you fail to memorize anything eise in this entire
chapter—I pray it shall not be the last Statement made above. I
am placing it in brackets with the hope that you will pay special
attention to it.
To return to the point where we left off; when two individuals
have a dream of the latter-mentioned type, it is generally classified
as “true dreaming.” Nevertheless, there is not what is called pro­
jection taking place, but there is a form of action going on, called
“conscious expansion.” To gain a more graphic picture of the
action of the mind that is involved in such cases, please refer to
the sketch on the following page.
Now, picture the two people Standing a few feet apart on the
edge of a lake and each dropping a stone into the water. The re-
sulting ripples from each stone striking the water will expand out
from their centers and soon will meet and mingle.
Since all recognition works through or by what is called the
Law of Comparison, or the relating of one thing with another, we
automatically fall under the belief that all things are separate and
distinctly different from one another. In other words, it keeps us
from seeing all life as one active unit, and we see it only in sep­
arate little pieces. The question that may logically arise here is,
“If all is truly One, how did this One bring on its present state of
seeming duality?”
In attempting to answer this question 1 do not presume to
believe the answer will be acceptable to all of you, nor even that
it shall be very clear to you, but I can assume we all know the
limitations of spoken or written words and I shall do my best
with it.
As a way of starting, let us pretend that the nature of the
world of thought is electronic and that the pattern the electrons
formed was that of a reverse spiral, or lines of force running out­
ward from a center in an ever-expanding field, perhaps visualized
like this (see following page).
This form of action would represent etheric man leaving his
inner world, and building and entering into the world of matter
of a three-dimensional kind. Now, in order to do this it was neces-
64
sary to enter into a yet deeper state of inner consciousness. This
may seem like a stränge paradox, but in all attempts that Man may
make to get “out” of one state of consciousness into another, he
must always first go in; for nothing is to be found unless it is first
discovered “within.” All seemingly outer Stimuli must first register
within the individual before that one can become aware of its
“outer” reality. Seeds, be they of human origin or otherwise, must
be planted within before they can show their “outer” aspect; and
each seed must contain within it a knowledge of the “outer” form
it is later to take, and a graphic picture of what it has to do to
manifest its own particular form.
In Order to enter “out” into the dream world, one must go deeper
within consciousness. In order to project one’s psychic body back
out into the physical world, one must go yet deeper within con­
sciousness. In order to enter the astral world and be free from the
physical world, one must go within and shut out the so-called
“outer.”
Now, if my terminology—which I have tried to put in simple
form—has painted any kind of understandable picture for you, you
will see why there is actually no such condition as an “outer”
world at all and that the seeming “outerness” is but an illusion.
You may also have acquired a better mental grasp of what is meant
when it is said, “All is One, and you are that One.”
It seems that we have rambled far afield from the topic of the
dream-self and John Doe, but we really have gone no further away
than was necessary to pick up and bring back a few missing parts
of the puzzle that we hope will make the picture more complete.
For the moment let us now suppose that the dream-self finds
no Symbols that will waken an image of John Doe, nor can he
come in contact with John Doe’s awareness field while in the
dream state. But the desire to meet his friend is still uppermost
in his material wakeful state of mind. If his attachment to his
friend is not of a morbid kind, he will let his wish slide out of his
body consciousness to what is called his sub-consciousness—which
is not really below the conscious mind at all, but is a field of action
that may be called the Creative mind.
The Creative mind is everywhere present. There is no part in
space-time that it does not exist; yet of itself it is not cognizant of
space or time.
65
This world is made up of thought forms brought about by the
desires of all living things on all planes of consciousness, some
complete and some incomplete, but all waiting for the proper time
to be made manifest wherever needed. A thought form born of
desire must at some time be brought into active use or the energy
that was necessary to create it will explode upon its creator and
bring serious wounds or death to him.
It may be well here to express the thought that Man’s nature
is not, as some schools of mysticism teach, three-fold, nor is he
merely ten-fold, as others teach—but multiplex.
If we are to accept the thought that matter can be divided and
sub-divided into endless parts, that consciousness is, not more, but
equally complex. Indeed matter is consciousness.
If the reader can at least to some extent follow most of the
above Statements, he will automatically find himself in a better
Position to understand what I am now about to say in regard to
the one I have referred to as the “dream-self.” This dream-self
has been seeking his friend, John Doe, but is now moving about
in his material world of wakefulness and has seemingly set aside
or “forgotten” his desire.
But, as I have said, consciousness neither forgets nor sets aside
anything but seeks constantly to express itself in form, and always
moves toward the lines that give it the least resistance. So, while
one may appear to be very actively intent on a bit of work, a part
of his consciousness moves out from him, and assuming an identical
likeness in physical form of that one, appears before John Doe.
This is sometimes referred to as a bi-location of consciousness. It
cannot, however, be classified as what is called a projection of
the psychic body, for it has no silver or aka cord attachment be-
tween the two selves. Nor is there any sense of a connecting link
of any kind whereby either body is aware of the other. And more
—the person from whom that double has gone out need not suffer
any lapse of consciousness but, more often than not he is not aware
at all of having had a part of his consciousness leave him, but as
to the reality of this projected form, one needs but to listen to
John Doe to find he will take a solemn oath that he did talk to
the real person in question.
There is another difference between this type of mental action
and what is called psychic projection and that is the time-and-
66
i
motion element. In the latter, the projected psyche has both the
senses of motion through space and the passage of time (of course
it is the former sense that lends him the latter one), whereas a
bi-location of consciousness takes place outside of the three-di-
mensional time realm—which is also the reason that the one to
whom it happens has no awareness of it and is always shocked or
unbelieving when told of it.
Telepathy, clairvoyance and clairaudience have their field of
action also outside your three-dimensional space-time-motion, and
show themselves in your world at two points only. (1) at their
point of origin, and (2) at their point of reception—and it is be­
cause of this that they seem so mysterious. But remember this:
if Man accepts one thing in all creation as an unsolvable mystery,
then all things are equally unsolvable mysteries.
“I” am the only mystery, and to the extent that I come to
know Myself I shall know all other things.
67
KAY TING
68
THE GROUP SOUL
Kay Ting:
What is the Group Soul? What is its function in the scheme
of life? I am quite aware of the fact that these are questions that
have been dealt with at considerable length by a number of men
and women of deep metaphysical minds, and we do not in any
of these writings pretend to be able to teil you in a few short
pages about things it has taken most of these highly capable
people long years of study and then large volumes of writings to
make known to those who were and are seeking the “Inner Wis­
dom.” We of the “Inner Circle,” however, came to the realization
many years ago that almost all such subjects have been dealt with
in such highly technical terminology that they are of little practical
value to the beginner. This is probably one of the main reasons for
the rather shocking lack of interest of a great number of people.
It appears to us that more often than not these writers and
teachers, in their zeal to express their views on life, forgot one of
the most important factors—and that is the art of simplicity. The
quest of life is everyone’s duty, from the moron to the most learned
individual; but while it is one’s duty it should also be his pleasure.
Where there is no sense of pleasure in our acts, we are not likely
to continue in those acts.
There is a greater demand today among the people of the
Earth, and especially those in the Western half of the world, for
more spiritual understanding. But if those who feel themselves in
a position to give it keep putting their Ph.D.’s, D.D.’s and F.R.S.’s
on display at the same time by packing their writings and lec-
tures with Latin, Greek and Sanskrit terms, the neophyte will
crawl back into the cooler shadows of his orthodox hole. Not that
these shadows are more understandable to him, but they are
comfortable by right of birth and early environment.
The beginner in almost every field of learning, and especially
in those of a metaphysical and philosophical nature, is very much
like the proverbial ground hog if he is permitted to see his shadow
through the perhaps unwitting carelessness of the teacher in cast­
69
ing his light about. The results can only mean a longer “winter”
of ignorance for the world at large.
It is, I believe, quite obvious to the material scientist, as well as
to the metaphysicist, that the world will, in the next fifty years,
make such tremendous strides in all fields of learning that the
knowledge we now possess and feel to be so advanced will be as
nothing. But this cannot be accomplished by the highly learned,
who are the only ones that can bring it to pass, unless they come
down out of their high places and walk among the “common
people.” And, with this, we hope not too lengthy preliminary, let
us talk on what is called the “Group Soul.”
In Order to do this with the prospect of learning anything,
we must at once set aside any preconceived ideas or notions on
the subject. Knowing the difficulty in attempting to let go of
acquired knowledge, even for a moment, I suggest we attack this
problem with nothing more difficult than openmindedness.
By the law of paradox, everything is at once true and untrue.
This Statement is based on the theory that the underlying principle
of time and causation is change. That things or conditions may
seem to the majority to be of a homogeneous and conclusive na-
ture is the result of the general training we received in respect to
these things in the remote past. And, while such training may
have had its worth in any of these remote periods, we commit
upon ourselves and others a dire evil if we continue to cling to
them on the grounds of tradition. All those who act as teachers
or guides whether of the past, present, or future, can teil you no
more than what they as individuals have themselves learned, either
from others or by personal experience; and this is true whether or
not these teachers or guides are living and acting on your plane or
mine. So, it is through and by my own personal studies that I
have formed certain opinions concerning what is called the “Group
Soul” and its nature. Some of these opinions I shall try to express
to you in the limited space here permitted me.
Going back into the vast and endless depths of consciousness
—or what is known to you as “time”—when all that now is had
its abiding place in the Etheric, the higher Intelligences caused a
kind of hypnotic spell to fall upon all those who were to enter
into the physical-chemical world. This meant that all who were
70
so “entranced” were under the mental influence of those who put
them into that state in a measure similar to that of one who is
hypnotized by another here on your Earth. In order to better
understand the power of hypnosis and what its mechanics are,
let us talk about it.
Anyone, if he so wishes, can find an abundance of authorita-
tive writings on this subject, but I suggest that unless you are
advanced in other fields of education such as psychology and brain
anatomy, you had better leave it alone; for, like all other forces
of life it can be extremely dangerous to the unlearned, as you will
presently see if you continue to peruse these pages.
I have no wish to frighten anyone from following whatever
course of action he or she may feel desirous of taking. To do
this would be to bar that one from the path of his own personal
growth which would mean that I would have to share some of
the karma that he would make by taking a path opposite to that
he would normally have taken had I left him to his own devices.
Nonetheless, it has been said, and wisely so, that “fools rush in
where angels fear to tread.” Let us, therefore, at least for the
time being, try not to emulate either fools or angels but tread the
middle path instead.
The word “hypnosis” is taken from the Greek word Hypnos,
which was the name of the Greek god of sleep. The Romans
called him Somnus, and he was supposed to be very closely re-
lated to Thanatos, which means “Death.” As there is no such
form of action as the word “death” implies, but merely a changing
of one’s state of awareness—and as there are endless degrees of
awareness—it follows that there must be endless methods for
getting into them, each a little different from the others. All of
them, however, can be brought under the one heading called the
“hypnotic” or sleep state, or the state of being influenced by Sug­
gestion and fundamentally illusionary.
Some schools of thought teach that because Man seems to
do what is called “thinking,” he also has free will, and is there­
fore master over his own individual destiny. Such, however, is
not the case for man, any more than it is for anything eise. For
free will cannot be attained except through and by the law of
self-mastery. And this state can be acquired only after long years
71
of conscious effort on the part of the individual to realize his own
Divinity. Upon attaining this realization, “the Annointed One”
is automatically freed from the Controlling influence of the Group
Soul and is indeed then a free agent.
Until such time as the individual finds within himself the need
for Self-realization in some form, he or she is not actually a thinker.
Nor are they doing as they will to do, for they are acting directly
under the influence of the Group Soul through the desire body,
via the sexual energies as the principal driving force. This con-
trol of all living things through the forces of sex, while creating
many seeming evils, also brings about an equal drive for what is
called “good”—thereby keeping the over-all activity of life in its
normal state of balance.
In considering the “after-death” state, some seem to think that
the individual either becomes automatically free from the things
which he did while on Earth, or he is consigned to eternal hell
and damnation. I do not speak too strongly against this kind of
teaching when I say that it is not only one of the most arrogantly
stupid of doctrines, but it is brutal beyond measure, for it Alls
men’s hearts with the dread of dying and having to face such an
utterly hopeless Situation.
Death, however, does a great deal for some in the way of re-
leasing them from the binding chains of the Group Soul, for upon
realizing that life continues beyond the physical body, they begin
to awaken to the fact that perhaps there is more to life than they
were aware of while still in a material world and, as a rule, it is
but this sudden and happy event that prods them into more con­
scious seeking. And, happier still, many manage to bring this
knowledge back with them in their next earthly embodiment.
Friends, it is only by such realization that the act of dying
makes any change in an individual. Without this realization, man
is an automaton, a puppet, and the “strings” that cause him to
move are the forces of his animalistic body guided by the hand of
the Group Soul.
Not knowing that the one and only requisite to freedom from
the wheel of life is self-development Man seeks blindly in his
outer world for what he thinks to be the answer to it all, which he
72
calls “happiness.” This word, in its worldly sense, can mean only
one thing, and that is satisfaction for the ego. As such, it is but
stale crumbs to the High Self, or Soul, for the so-called happiness
that one may feel in this way is almost always woven out of the
threads of the unhappiness of another, and on this ground alone
it is doomed to a short period of existence.
The real state of happiness lies within, and it is a quality of
the Soul, not dependent on any form of activity of things, places,
or other persons. It is therefore perfect and everlasting.
Now, while it may seem that I have spoken of the Group Soul
as though it were some kind of human entity, as the Christians do
of their God, it is not to be thought of as such, but rather as a
force that came into being with Man’s entrance into the physical
world, and which pervades all things as a necessary form of action
towards the continuity of the harmonious pattern that must exist in
the law of growth.
One of the most beautiful characteristics of the law of ever-
becoming is the lack of acknowledgement of a time-limit. If we
but consciously realize this, we will attain and hold a calm state
of mind in our efforts to go forward.
Up to this point, I have spoken only of the human being where
the Group Soul is concerned. Why physical man thinks that he
is operated in a männer superior to all eise, I cannot understand.
Surely none of his movements is different in essence from any other
of the Earth’s creatures, inasmuch as these movements follow a
pattern that says “Eat, drink, mate and shelter yourself and stay
alive.” Anything that he may do that seems to have no connection
with the above five things, no matter how subtle his movements
may be, if watched closely will be found to lead back to them.
It cannot be otherwise, for notwithstanding his vaunted belief in
reason, he is yet a creature of habit, and governed by the habit
pattern of the species, which the nature of its environment ne-
cessitated for its survival.
Birds and certain animals that habitually migrate find their
destination by following ether or ground currents that play upon
their bodies and excite or depress the nervous system. It may be
noticed that some birds fly in a series of varied formations, and
73
the cause for the changes of formation is the changes that take
place in these ether waves and the position of each bird in the
flight. We may line these ether (not air) currents to the radio
beam that your great airships follow in landing.
Land animals follow lines of the earth, that are also of a
magnetic nature, in seeking a more comfortable place to exist
when weather conditions bring about changes in their environ-
ment. If you doubt this, you may simply watch the confused
actions of what is called a homing pigeon when he is unfortunate
enough to come in contact with the lines of magnetic force flowing
around one of your great radio stations. The natural electronic
pattern flowing between the Earth’s matter and that of the ether
has been broken up.
A very similar condition takes place where hounds in tracking
a man run into the footprints of many men. Each individual car-
ries with him, due to the nature of the chemistry of his body, a
Chemical radiation that flows between his body and the earth, and
when the one who is being tracked mixes his tracks with many
others, the vibrations of the many so intermingle that no one of
them can be segregated from the mass. These vibrations excite
the dog’s nervous System by way of the nasal passage, but it is
not registered as what is considered an actual odor. The sex and
temperament are there, besides the type of animal it is that is
being tracked.
A vulture flying high in the sky knows when an animal or
human is dying and when it is dead by picking up the Chemical
changes that are occuring when death is taking place in a body.
Male moths will find a female at mating time though that female
be locked up and miles away. Bees keep in the swarm by being
constantly in contact with these lines of force.
So each thing reacts according to the nature of the mechanical
construction of its body. Through the mechanistic action of the
body all of what are called “outer” Stimuli are received and re-
ferred to the consciousness that is in Charge of that body. But it
is not till after the consciousness refers the Stimuli back to the
“outer” world that it becomes aware of the Stimuli as objects or
sounds located in a given point in space. I am sure, however,
that it is known by most authorities on this subject that the eye
74
sees only about a tenth of what it looks at, and the ears hear
even less than that in the way of sounds. To state it briefly, the
sense organs of the human being all fall very short of giving a true
and complete picture to him of his so-called outer world. But this
Situation is true of all life forces working through a physical-
chemical body of any kind.
Often we are given to making comparisons between what is
called human consciousness in them, but such efforts as have been
made in the past will undoubtedly be made in the future, are ex­
tremely hazardous and will never lead to anything but confusion.
And the confusion comes largely from Man’s belief in form and
his almost incredible lack of knowledge concerning the force called
“life” that operates form.
There is nothing new in the Statement that all forms act and
react in accord with their environment in place and time, but
because Man is capable of thinking and reasoning, he is more
able to adapt himself to almost any environment or new condition
that may arise in that environment.
However true the above Statement may be, Man is yet of the
animal kingdom, and his body structure and general actions show
him to be; and he is to this day no less under the influence of
the Group Soul, and until each individual becomes consciously
aware of his own divinity, there can be no escaping this influence.
For, as incomprehensible as it may seem to most of us, it keeps
all things in a harmonious pattern of action until each and every
thing has attained its highest state of growth, which was designed
for it in the beginning of three-dimensional time.
75
LO SUN YAT
76
MEDITATION
Lo Sun Yat:
Man is a stranger to the matter world! He knows not how
he entered herein nor from whence he has come; nor does he
know what to do within the short period of time that has here!
Lacking this knowledge, it is quite natural that once he is here
he fears having to leave, for his destination is as moot a question
as all the others.
By appearances it may seem odd indeed that man should find
existence to be such an enigma, especially when it is realized that
man has been coming and going from the world of matter for
upward of a billion years. Factually, however, it is not odd at all
when we come to understand that the human entity is a center of
Self-awareness and as such is The Creator of all that is created
and that the so-called matter world is another of His creations
which He is experiencing. By this I mean that the matter world
is not something in itself into which He comes and from which
He goes, nor for that matter are any of the other worlds. How­
ever, it is the mode of Operation He uses in creating which causes
Him to suffer the illusion of going and coming as well as the de-
lusion that He knows not anything regarding Himself or the origin
of His creations. And what is this mode of Operation? It is simply
this: while He is creating, He is completely unaware of His Crea­
tion; and once He stops the act of creating, He becomes aware
of that which He created, and in doing so He is no longer aware
of being its Creator.
Now, providing this reader is capable of comprehending the
above Statements, he will come to see the reason and purpose be-
hind the need of meditation. Meditation is an effort made on the
part of the lower mind to breach the gap between itself and the
Higher Mind. Once this is accomplished, the sense of separate-
ness that exists between The Creator and His creation will cease
to exist.
True meditation is a rather intense kind of introspection; so,
if you are to get anything of value from its practice, you must go
where it is quiet and your body must be clean, or irritations will
77
rise in it which will distract your mind and cancel out your best
efforts. As a matter of Suggestion, I think it best, before starting
your period of meditation, that you take a warm bath and, if your
room is free of drafts, that you sit without clothing of any kind,
for clothes have a way of irritating the body also. If you are
hungry, it is best to take only a little warm milk and perhaps some
fruit.
Now as you take up your position, let your first thoughts be
that you are going before your Maker, the Divine High Self. Take
three deep breaths, in and out slowly, and close your eyes so as
to shut out the external world around you and begin to let your
body relax. Upon feeling your body to be in a completely relaxed
state, start to center your vision (with your eyes remaining closed)
up to the root of the nose at a point slightly above the eyebrows.
By putting your consciousness upon this spot you will be remov-
ing it from the external eyes and giving it to the internal Eye or
All-seeing Eye of the High-Self. This is the act of what is called
“giving yourself to God.”
I must remind the beginner that in his first few experiments in
meditation he may get nothing more from it than the pleasure the
body feels from relaxing, but do not let this discourage you. You
may also, in the first part of your meditation, become aware of
Strange sounds such as rappings and voices, but try not to pay
attention to them for they are simply manifestations of your lower
psyche and can do you no harm other than to hold you back from
attaining your goal should you become fascinated by the phe-
nomenon.
Man has been living so long on the outer-side of the Magie
Bag that it is little wonder that any experience he may have on the
inner is astounding and sometimes frightening to him.
Generally speaking, the Western mind lacks discipline. It is
incapable of realizing and enjoying pleasures mentally. Every de­
sire must be met with body satisfaction and all things must be
accomplished in a hurry. This attitude to life frustrates the mind
and brings on rapid deterioration of the body.
We can know how completely the body is related to the mind
only as we realize that it is but an extension of the mind. In the
past, and to a large extent in the present, it has been taught that
78
body and mind were two different entities. This belief has led
many into thinking that they could cater to the body and neglect
the mind, and vice versa. In India, there is a dass of Hindu which
believe that, by scourging the body, his soul, spirit, or mental-
self will be better received by God. While it is true that by mental
Suggestion the nerve-ends can be so blocked that the brain can-
not receive pain impulses the Mental Self is still aware that its
physical extension is being abused, and when the Mental Self
withdraws its attention from its physical-self in what is called
death, it will carry memory patterns of such abuse with it into
its next expression which you have learned to call the Astral. Of
course, I do not mean to imply that the astral body will now
begin to suffer any actual pain for pain is a relative condition,
but the memory patterns will consist of the actions the body-self
experienced and will again be reinacted in the after-life.
This is especially true should we get emotionally attached to
an experience and find ourselves repeating over and over again.
It is truly said that we are the sum and total of our experiences.
If we accept this thought, then we need but a little more intelli-
gence to realize the folly of emotional attachment. Man is free to
do whatever he desires but if he acts only under the dictates of
his emotions, he soon loses his ability to discriminate between what
is intelligent to do and what is not.
Many people believe that meditation is some kind of higher
thinking but such is not the case. The true meditative state comes
to one only after he has stopped trying to think and reason. How­
ever, we cannot let go of our belief that by thinking and reasoning
we can solve the seeming mystery of our own being when under
the domination of our emotions. The ego, having no awareness
of the Higher Self, is afraid to let go lest it be vanquished into
darkness and oblivion. Of course there is some truth in the ego’s
fears that it will be vanquished, but what it doesn’t know is that
only by losing itself can it find Itself.
The material world by its own nature does not permit man to
let go of his ego entirely but he can learn to so yoke the ego, or
lower emotional seif, to the High-Self that the true nature of the
external world will be revealed to him for what it is—maya, illu­
sion, sensory-dream. With this enlightenment, the external world
ceases to be a menace to his existence.
79
MAN ON THE PHYSICAL PLANE
Lo Sun Yat:
Were I to teil you that there was a beginning to man and his
physical universe, it would of necessity imply an end also, for in
truth beginnings are ends and ends are beginnings. And quite
apart from this, I would have to clarify the meaning of the term
the “physical” universe. In defining the word “physical,” we use
such words as “material” or “corporeal,” words which are sup-
posed to declare an existing condition as opposed to another condi­
tion called “mind.” A definition of this kind regarding what exists
outside the mind would be very edifying if we only knew what
Mind is, and I am sure our enlightenment would be even more
extended if we could at the same time know what matter is, in
or of itself.
Several thousand years ago the philosophy-loving Greeks, by
a process called pure reasoning, came to the conclusion that, while
the world around them presented itself to their senses as an end­
less series of surfaces, there must be an underlying homogeneous
fabric to it all, and after a great deal more of reasoning, they
named this mysterious fabric “atoms” thinking them to be little
bundles. However, neither the Greeks nor anyone eise at that
time had any way of devising tests to learn whether the theory
contained any facts. So a vast amount of time passed, and it
seemed as though everyone, including the Greeks, had forgotten
this little “cake” of reasoning dubbed Atom.
But man forgets only that which he finds convenient to for-
get, so the atom idea simply remained in the oven of the uncon-
scious to receive further baking. Then one day, some adventuring
thinkers having something of their own in the oven decided to
look in on same to see how it was doing. As they looked in and
saw beyond their own little theoretical cake, they saw something
that startled them, and one of them said to the other, “What do
you suppose it is?” and the other shrugged his shoulders in un-
certainty and said, “I don’t really know but it looks like something
the Greeks cooked up about two thousand years ago.” Then the
man who had spoken first exclaimed, “In the name of Socrates,
80
i
that great lover of truth, I believe you are right! And if my
memory serves me correctly, I think they called it ‘Atoms’.”
“Well,” the second man cried excitedly, “let’s take the ‘stuff’ out
and examine it under the somewhat bright light of present-day
knowledge; perhaps we will discover something that the Greeks
failed to see.”
One of the first and most important things these adventuring
thinkers discovered about the atom was that it was anything but
homogenous and should therefore, have not been named atom
but perhaps “Mummy,” for it appeared to be a body of some
kind wrapped in many sheets. However, as subsequent events
were to prove, even that title would have had to be discarded,
for the more sheets the adventuring thinkers peeled from the
supposed body the more sheets were left to be peeled; and to
worsen matters, each succeeding sheet seemed to be less tangible
than the preceding ones, but at the same time, in some mysterious
way, denser and increasingly more difficult to unwrap, until finally
they came to the painful conclusion that if there was body at all
among those sheets, it was there only as mathematical structure;
and because of man’s great need to name things, they named this
mathematical structure “Energy.”
But let us not stop here, for physical science goes on to say
that energy is not something in itself, but is the results of some­
thing (?) called matter in motion. Then the scientists say that
energy is believed to be closely related to matter and mass. It
may be that my knowledge of modern physics is entirely inade­
quate to cope with this kind of thinking, but I fail to comprehend
how energy in itself can be closely or otherwise related to matter
and mass when energy is only the end product of matter in motion.
Of course the trouble here may be in semantics and not in existing
conditions at all. But however this may be, the subject regarding
matter and its linkage to Mind is a large and complex one and
needs explaining to each new generation and, therefore, has to be
brought down to the language of each new generation. But even
so, I do not think it necessary for me to go into detailed talk on
the modern laws of physics to reach the minds of the present. In
fact, I am sure it would only befuddle the issue for those who are
not adept in such laws.
The law of physics tend only to show that there is a phe-
81
nomenon in nature called “matter;” they make no effort to demon-
strate whether it exists in or out of a condition called “Mind.”
Physics simply seeks to explain the workings of matter and not
what matter is. This being the case, it is obvious that we have
no argument with the laws of physics as such.
I’ve touched on some of the things regarding the activity of
matter merely as a means of clarifying the fact that matter in
itself is the works of one side of the mind called the Conscious
Self-aware state. This Conscious Self is not a static thing but an
ever growing, ever expanding condition and this growth takes
place through what is called the sensory system. The sensory Sys­
tem is a system of measurements and the thing that is being meas-
ured is activity of the unconscious side of the mind and it is this
activity that is called matter. This means, at least to me, that the
physical universe per se is an unconscious creation and the con­
sciousness is the God who “looks” or measures the Creation, and
sees that it is “good” or a precise measurement of Itself. A pre-
cise measurement is a state of balance and when one finds a state
of balance within himself, he will find the world around him to be
good, the word “good” in this instance meaning understandable.
On the so-called physical plane, man is lost, but his state of
lostness is due only to his hypnotic belief in his not-self which he
has named “matter.”
82
83
1
RAMON NATALLI
This personality was born in 1598 and died in 1652. He was
an astronomer and belonged to the Royal House of Astronomy in
Rome, Italy. He was also a Student of law. He was a close friend
of the famous Galileo and secretly fought the bloody hand of the
Inquisition. Ramon Natalli was an agnostic.
He continued to pursue the field of astronomy after passing
into the astral. He was pleasantly surprised to discover he had
survived the death of his physical body. He discovered two things
of great interest after being in the astral world about two years—
the first was that sun spots were atomic storms and the other was
that atoms consist of photons of varied frequency levels moving in
a series of quantum arcs.
84
MAN THE SEEKER AND
MAN THE CREATOR
Ramon Natalli:
My beloved friends, in putting my hand to these writings, I
feel deeply responsible for not only what I have to say, but for
the others who are bravely endeavoring this momentous task. I—
and I am sure, all those of the “Inner Circle,”—are fully aware
of the many and dangerous pitfalls that lie in our path in this sort
of thing.
In Order to save a lot of misunderstanding and general con-
fusion, we will lend elasticity to this work by here stating that
none of us either want or expect the reader of these papers to
accept more of what is said as being truth than his own mind
through years of experiencing life teils him is truth or possible
truth.
Science and philosophy are the only paths of safety that man
has to lead him from the thralldom of religious dogma and Super­
stition.
Every time man puts his foot back on the so-called material
plane, he is instantly engulfed in the muddy torrent of the afore-
mentioned concepts. That any manage to rise above the surface
of these insidious waters long enough to catch a glimpse of the
lights called philosophy and Science that teil them a beautiful land
of truth lies within their reach, is to me a wonderful phenomenon
in itself.
Praise be to whatever the Ultimate Force may be, man holds
an unbreakable Unity with his fellow-creatures in the world of
Thought, even though walls of conscious awareness form what
appear to him at first to be insurmountable barriers between the
many worlds.
There are a number of highly educated men and women who
shy away from the use of metaphysics and occult teachings as
something too nebulous and vague; and yet these same people will
be found using equally vague and abstract hypotheses in approach-
85
ing a given subject. For instance—many otherwise great scientific
men will look down their long, superior noses at you if you even
suggest the possibility of an individual surviving bodily death, much
less that they can be contacted and conversed with! And yet, these
same gentlemen of letters will look at you with a straight face
while trying to explain the atom, although the only way they have
of knowing that such a particle exists is by mathematical equa-
tions; and in the realness of things, figures or numbers have no
more concrete bases than does anything eise.
If you doubt that figures are more than mental abstracts that
aid you in postulating a mental construction so that you may better
deal with it in your three-dimensional world, just try going into
the division of matter and see what happens to your so-called con­
crete figures.
For example, let us take the simple problem of your postulated
0 or zero. This sign Stands for what you conceive as nothing, but
one cannot arrive at such a mental concept in any state of con­
sciousness. However, you create this sign anyway, perhaps in
order to save your sanity; more likely, though, it is used as a force
against the abstract world to set it into motion towards your
concrete world. So now your hypothetical nothing becomes an
X-force that, in some männer, is used to materialize a concrete
whole called “one” or the beginning of substance in your three-
dimensional world. Of course, in postulating this whole number
you must again ignore an infinity of fractions extending in both
directions—from 0 to 1; and from 1 to 2, or to 0 or zero again.
True, physical man must resort to some compromise of mind
with matter until such time as the material brain has developed
into a better machine for his psychic to work through.
For the vast uninitiated majority it is best for them to keep
the assumption of a definite beginning and end to things. As for
the learned, they must come to one of two conclusions sooner or
later; first, that there is an Ultimate Force whom they must assume
to be the One God, and entirely apart from themselves; or (2),
that they, themselves, are Gods and The Ultimate in essence of All.
There is no middle-of-the-road compromise for the initiated.
But whichever road they take, they must hold fast to it with the
86
courage of their own convictions. However, they must at no time
try to sway another onto their road in any männer whatsoever.
They are duty-bound, nevertheless, to pass on their learning to
their fellow-men—but they must leave the seeker to arrive at his
own conclusions.
The general mass of God-men of the Etheric World had no
particular desire, or knowledge, of producing for themselves a new
state of mind, a new Vibration, a yet lower plane to live in; but
man then, as man now, is a creator. This Creative impulse is
something he has no control over. It is a tremendous must with
him. His will and desire enter in, only in what he creates, but not
in the impulse itself.
The seeds for the physical world you live in, and all the vast
cosmos from end to end, or the circle without end, originated
in the scientific minds of the Etheric World, implanted there by
the Great Creative Impulse.
It was through this dominative, inquisitive desire that man first
thought that if he could in some männer break up the merge-
pattern of his energies in the Low Etheric World he would then
perhaps be able to produce what you call free motion. In so doing
he knew that he would first have to arrest the homogeneous mo­
tion of his world. But, as no body once put in motion can be
stopped or held back without the force or body that stops it
being equal to it, he found himself up against an extremely diffi-
cult problem.
In other words he had to figure out an entirely different way
of thinking.
87
ATMAN PLUS ATOM
EQUALS ADAM
Ramon Natalli:
To know the world of Matter is to know the world of Non-
Matter which is the world of Mind, and to know the world of
Mind is to have Cosmic Consciousness.
In reading the above Statement and realizing at the same time
the rather vast amount of scientific data regarding the nature of
matter that has been compiled by the scientists, one may jump to
the conclusion that the scientist is in a much better position to
receive Cosmic Consciousness than anyone eise. Of course such a
conclusion would not be true, for all who are genuinely Creative are
in tune with the Cosmic Mind.
For example, a thinking student in physics learns that there is
no such condition as matter per se; therefore he does not ask,
“What is matter?” expecting to get an answer, anymore than he
would ask, “How high is up?” Rather he comes to know by higher
levels of thought on the subject, that that which is believed to be
matter is merely a condition called motion, which is the resultant
of work. For instance, there is an energy exchange of a very in-
tense nature going on between the many particles of that micro-
scopic bit of substance referred to as the atom. This exchange is
known as “work.” This work in turn sets and keeps the atom
as a bonded unit in motion. A portion of this work in the atom
produces two different types of motion or levels of exchange called
heat and electricity.
The laws of physics state that a body once set into motion will
continue (in that) motion in a Straight line unless acted upon by
an external force, but the fact is that three-dimensional matter
cannot move in a Straight line because a Straight line denotes a
perpetual and unbroken form of motion. Physical matter moves
not only in wave motion but also in periodical bundles or quanta.
The cause of this motion is due to the nature of the underlying
fabric of space. The space comprising the three-dimensional uni-
verse is an electromagnetic field that is constantly retuming to its
center. Our entire universe is simply a cosmic atom. However, in
order to comprehend the concept of Cosmic Atom, we have to
88
begin by studying its working parts, the microscopic atoms. Every
atom has its own space in which particles move, and this space
consists of a viscous type substance that exudes from the core of
the atom in a series of are lines. These arc lines drive the electron
bodies outward from the core or nucleus and draw them back
again. As this alternating magnetic force expands the orbital field
of the electrons, it creates a positive electrical flow; and as it draws
the electrons back to the center, it produces a positive magnetic
field. This magnetic field of attraction becomes denser and of
greater tensile strength to the inverse square of the distance of the
outer electrons from the nucleus.
While the electron is spoken of as an energy Charge, it must
also be considered to have specific structure. This structure, con­
sists of four lines of energy Crossing one another at the exact
center of each line. In addition, each line has a series of nodes
placed alternately along its axis which builds up in density as it
approaches the hub or center of the electron. Here they join and
form a relatively larger node of greater magnetic intensity. Each
of these nodes emits negative electrons which are very much
smaller units of energy than the positive electron by many thou-
sands of times. These units of energy are the results of the elec-
tron’s effort to get rid of the force that was applied to it in
projecting it into orbit.
The atom is truly the “Magie Bag” of the universe. It con-
tains so many properties that one could go on forever and never
touch on all of these properties and the things they are capable of
performing. With their vital substances they paint and mold the
universe. They are the very stuft upon which our dreams are made!
The gray matter in the head called the brain is made up of bil-
lions of them, and when we think our thoughts squeeze some of
the “juice” out of them in the form of neutron showers. Rub cer-
tain molecules of them gently, and they give up some of their
energies in static electricity. Hit some too hard, and their energies
will erupt in violent winds of death and destruction.
As almost everyone knows, the word “fission” means to create
a cleavage or break in a single unit. In fissioning atoms, a stream
of extremely high speed protons are fired at the atoms and even-
tually the force field that surrounds the proton crashes into the
force field of one of the orbiting bodies of the atom with the driv-
89
ing impact of millions of electron volts. The reaction of this ap-
plied force is heat, light, force, and the radiation of ions or
negative electrons erupting from deeper layers of the atom.
Now, my purpose in explaining the activity of atom fissioning
is simply to point out to the reader who may be unfamiliar with
the subject that, notwithstanding all the above mentioned force that
is brought to bear on the atom, no actual cleavage or true break
off of pieces has occurred. To understand this, we must first
realize that there is no such thing as matter and energy. While I
have referred to the atom as being a “body” and electrons as
having “structure” we must not let these words lead us into the
belief that the universe is made up of two different kinds of sub-
stance and that the substance called “matter” exists as ultimate
bits or pieces. An atom is made up of a number of force fields,
with each one of these force fields having its own particular rate
of motion or Vibration. Now if any of this is clear at all, I am
sure it will become apparent to the reader, that all that happens
to the atom when fissioned is to greatly expand the field of Opera­
tion of the outer shells in reference to the innermost ones called
the nucleus, thereby giving the atom a larger volume of space to
work in.
In thinking of the world around us, we automatically conjure
up the feeling called solidness and then imagine it to be a property
of this world, when in fact it is but a sensory measurement of the
world of “Adam.” Adam, the Magician, who by the use of his
magical wands called the senses, makes passes over the walls of
his imagination, and who by crying out, “Abracadabra” causes
vast and complex murals to appear and disappear on the walls.
And no matter the number of pictures Adam creates, he entitles
them all—“reality.”
90
THE NATURE OF THE COSMOS
Ramon Natalli:
In the construction of solar Systems and Island universes there
is a vast amount of waste matter thrown off into space. This act
of making and throwing off waste matter is no less a law of the
cosmos than it is of any single body in all space-time.
The word “waste,” however, is not a very apt one, for while
Nature is very prolific, she never creates anything that will not at
some time be used—and this is true of the waste matter thrown
off by cosmic building. While this substance has lost its intrinsic
value to the body being constructed in a particular point in space,
it will be taken up and used as a building-block by some other
body in the course of time. If however, a waste matter thrown off
by a body is turned back upon that body, it is found, in many
cases, to tend toward retarding it and in time may even destroy
the body altogether.
The basis of all things, we may state, is heat. In the process
of breaking down and building up, heat is not only the cause, but
is also the effect. It is sometimes said that the word cold means
absence of heat, as the word darkness means the absence of light.
Neither of these Statements is true. The words heat and cold, dark­
ness and light, are “sense” words, telling of the body’s ability to
measure molecular motion by its Organs of sense through the law
of pressure; but where the word cold is concerned, in regard to
molecular motion it simply means that the molecules of heat have
lost some of their free motion and have slowed down or suffered
a degree of inertia.
This is true also where light is concerned. There are no such
conditions as absolute light or absolute darkness, but only degrees
of these.
The degrees of light that can be seen in your three-dimensional
world are brought about by certain forms of vibratory action taking
place in your material substance. This action is then reflected on
the permanent ether particles, which are considerably smaller, and
produces a degree of change in them by expanding their electronic
field so that they reach into your three-dimensional world, where
the change is then measured by the sense organs of an individual
91
according to that one’s sensitivity to light pressure.
Through your sense of touch, a form is found to be hot, cold,
cool or warm. Now, all things have what is called potential kinetic
energy stored up in them while they are inert, but once set into
motion, a body will start discharging this energy in the form of
heat units and the more rapidly that body is made to move the
greater will become the quantity of heat, and the more intense
and penetrating each succeeding radiation. A particle moving at
the rate of billions of vibratory cycles per second is emitting light
of such short length that it can be detected only by an electric
photoplate.
It is in such fields of extreme motion that the X-ray and cos-
mic rays are found, the X-ray being about one ten-thousandth that
of visible light and cosmic rays about that much again shorter
than the X-ray. Both of these rays have, therefore, an extreme
potential for ionizing all matter of a longer wave-length.
There is, in theory at least, a belief that some cosmic ray par-
ticles can penetrate about twenty miles of lead. To the layman in
physics this would seem to be quite an awe inspiring theory, but let
us stop and ask ourselves these questions: What is space? What
is its nature? Is it compressible? Does matter, as you know it,
take up space?
In order to answer these questions with any degree of intelli-
gence, we shall have to go back to the accepted theory that the
world in which you live is a world of three dimensions, called
width, depth and breadth. But, in order for these dimensions to
exist, it becomes necessary for them to have another body in which
to take form, and this other body is called space. But space is
really not of your world at all, but is a fourth dimensional state
that in no way infringes upon any of your three-dimensional forms
of action, and in itself is a hundred thousand times denser than
the densest matter in your three-dimensional world. So the theory
of the cosmic ray passing through twenty miles of lead is by no
means a stränge one when the theory is based on the fact that
even twenty miles of lead does not occupy space.
The particles that go to make up space are much smaller than
any of the cosmic ray particles, and they flow right on through
all three-dimensional matter. However, both cosmic rays and X-
rays are moving at such high rates of Vibration that they have
92
passed out of the three-dimensional field to the extent that their
passage through etheric or space-matter creates a form of friction
in much the same way as a meteor creates friction in passing
through your Earth’s atmosphere. This causes the cosmic or X-
ray particle to discharge a light ray of infinitely short length by
expanding the electronic field of the etheric particles just enough
to cause that field to reach back into that of your three-dimen­
sional world, but the very instant the work that is being done on
the etheric atom by a particle from your world ceases, the form of
response that the etheric atom was making also ceases.
Whenever a particle from the three-dimensional world man-
ages to have its motion accelerated to the point where it can make
a contact with fourth-dimensional matter, the response made takes
place in the three-dimensional world, but fourth-dimensional mat­
ter can move into the three-dimensional world only so long as a
continuous force of three-dimensional matter is brought to bear
on it.
Some few years ago I was asked where the cosmic rays come
from. My answer was that they were manufactured by the suns
from more or less solidified waste matter in your solar System which
had been pulled into the suns by the law of magnetic attraction.
The suns, acting as atom-smashers, tear away the outer Shells and
spew them out into space, where, traveling at speeds for exceed-
ing visible light, they bombard your own Earth and other planetary
bodies in your solar System. However, even with the great speeds
at which some of these particles are moving, in a männer of speak-
ing, much of their destructive power is taken out of them by their
contact with other particles in the Earth’s atmosphere. Neverthe-
less, there is yet sufficient force in them to cause drastic mutations
in many of the Earth’s Chemicals.
Scientists have experimented at great length to create a muta-
tion in radium by artificial means, but, as far as I have been able
to learn, they have not succeeded in either increasing or decreas-
ing its rate of break-down into lead.
It is my belief that none of the Chemical substances out of
which the whole vast material universe is made either breaks down
or builds up of itself, but that these two continual forms of action
are brought about by the forces of one Chemical working upon
another.
93
Certain Chemicals, such as oxygen and hydrogen, have a great
affinity for one another, and, when combined, work in harmony
with each other, while others fight one another violently—or, un-
less a third force is brought to bear on them, simply will not mix
with each other. This was true of oil and water until recent times
when your scientists discovered that by the pressure of sound-
waves these two could be made to blend very well. Very few of
these Chemical changes that are characteristic and necessary for
the maintenance of earth life, however, could go on at all without
the suns, of which there are many millions scattered throughout
space, the one in your solar System being one of the smallest. The
size of some of them would stagger the human imagination for
they could hold within their huge bodies fifteen to twenty million
suns like that of your solar System. Yet, in relation to the vast-
ness of space they cast no greater light than the feeble flicker of a
match on a great desert in the dark of night. All is relative—a
thing is never itself until compared with something eise.
It is thought by some that your sun was at one time a great
deal larger than it now is, but that is not so, for the spiral lines of
force to which its substance was first attracted have neither con-
tracted nor expanded. However, its corona expands and contracts
periodically, depending upon its period of attracting solar waste
matter and breaking it down into usable substance for the Earth
and other planetary bodies.
Some of this substance is called “cosmic rays.” These sun par­
ticles storm not only the Earth, but all other bodies in your solar
System and are attracted to them by their magnetic pull. Some
of these bodies receive a far greater Charge than Earth, due to
their mass weight or density, and the nature of the particles that
one body may receive willingly may be repulsed by another. This
depends upon the Chemical nature of that body and the rate of
Chemical escape. As the density of the atmosphere around a cos­
mic body has a great deal to do with the rate of its Chemical
escape, this also would have to be taken into consideration.
This rain of cosmic particles is going on, night and day, al-
though the shower is considerably heavier during the daytime. A
body having no Vegetation, such as the Moon, has little or no
atmosphere; and not having an atmosphere, it is minus an ionized
beit to protect it from feeling the full effects of the cosmic rays. As
94
most rays are a definite deterrent to all plant life, or anything with
sap or liquid in it, the Moon—like all similar planetary bodies—
never was nor will be anything more than a dead body of a defi­
nite geometrical size and density, set in a precise geometrical
alignment with the Earth to counter-balance the Sun’s magnetic
effect on all the Earth’s liquids. Did the Earth not have the kind
of dense atmosphere it has, the forces of the Sun would soon drain
it of all its liquid substance. The Moon, however, is a purifier;
it keeps the Earth’s liquids from becoming stagnant by keeping
these liquids in a very minutely-timed state of ebb and flow, with
a necessary pause between the two to gather their forces.
All matter works by this ebb-and-pause-and-flow action. A
thing flowing is creating energy and a thing ebbing is losing it,
but in its moment of pause it is gathering unto itself the energy
it created, which it will use as its driving force toward action again.
The whole vast universe is pulsating in a finely timed rhythm.
It may seem, because of his wars and general leanings toward
inhumanity to his fellowman, that while all eise may be working
in the fine precision I mentioned, Man himself is not doing so.
Looking at the over-all picture of life, however, we will find that
all of Man’s seemingly inhuman acts are but the forces of Nature
endeavoring to keep that nice over-all balance.
We must come to the clear understanding that the forces of
Nature have no concern with bodies—whether these bodies are of
man, animal, fish, fowl, insect or plant—for all of these are merely
momentary manifestations of The Life Force working towards a
great goal—and that goal is the acquiring of a more comprehen-
sive understanding of Itself through Its parts. And who is this
“Itself?” It is I. Yea, I even am He.
Had I known this soul-stirring truth and written it when I
lived on Earth in 1624, I would have been burnt at the stäke
even as Galileo and his discoveries were condemned by that blood-
glutting mind and soul-destroying group that headed the Roman
Inquisitions.
Although I have tried in the above paragraph to give you
some idea as to the over-all desires of Nature in respect to Man’s
inhumanity to his fellowman, I have no wish to leave you with the
thought that brutality, lust and greed among men is the way of
Nature, for that is far from the truth and the fact that Nature
95
herseif knew there was nothing to be gained by viciousness other
than greater viciousness, is shown by her provision of a scale of
balance called “cause and effect,” from which there is no escape.
For the moment, let us leave the field of moral philosophy and
talk of what is called “a thing in itself.” In order to really learn
anything at all concerning this it will be necessary to make some
rather serious changes in our way of thinking. What better way
can we do this than by keeping in mind the fact that there are no
such things as miracles or mysteries. Down through the ages Man
has been cursed and his naturally inquisitive mind has been
stymied by these two words, shoved upon him by the priestcraft
and the pseudo-scientist. A mystery is only that which has not
yet been studied from all of its sides. A miracle is that which
happens in spite of Man’s foolishness and seeming perverseness in
wanting to learn anything about himself and the worlds in which
he lives.
You are now living in an era that demands upon your know-
ing by personal experience and not by wishful thinking or faith or
even by your common variety of reasoning and so-called logic—
for all of these are limited to your supposed belief and understand-
ing of a Deity or some vague patchwork called “scientific reason
and logic.”
Of course, in some of the higher Orders of mentation there
exist Systems of reason and logic the nature of which borders on
what may be called pure abstraction, and in that light has as much
to do with your common type of reason and logic as two-and-two-
make-four has to do with calculus. They are both called mathe-
matics but that is all that can be said in comparing them.
One of the most appalling experiences a human being can have
is to suddenly realize how utterly vast and completely incompre-
hensible is the entire scheme of life. We are like children lost in
the eternal wastelands of space with nothing more to go to or come
from but more space, and it is not at all stränge that we are terri-
fied by this “spaceness,” for it seems to represent that entirely un-
knowable something called “X.”
How can this be otherwise unless Man learns that He is not
looking at space, but that He is Himself space. And, as the Self
cannot contemplate Its Self except through one of Its lower
vehicles, It cannot comprehend space. But the instant It produces
96
anything, that is in the slightest degree different than Itself, It has
a something with which to compare Itself, and, in so doing, be­
comes both the First Cause and Effect—and thereafter, every ef-
fect not having anything to give it a Self-state of awareness becomes
a first cause by creating another effect.
While a First Cause looks forward to finding Itself in Its effect,
the effect has to look backwards to find itself in the First Cause,
and not being able to comprehend its Father, it sees nothing. But
an effect never takes place in the original dimension of the time
continuum, and this is why an effect cannot see itself as being
other than the First Cause, but at the same time has no aware­
ness of itself until it creates an effect in which it finds its own
identity through the degrees of difference it senses in its own
creation.
Every effect finds its birth in an entirely new dimension of
time from that of its cause, and this new dimension means new
situations to be conformed with and that means new forms of
action. So it was out of these endless forms of action and reaction
taking place in dimensions of time that physical existence, as you
see it, came into being.
So, also, we find that there is no such condition as a ding-an-
sich, or “thing-in-itself,” but all forms of action taking place in
their own time dimension leads the unthinking to believe that the
dimension in which they have their consciousness is the only ex­
istence there is. Not being able to get back to their way of think-
ing—or not thinking—a feeling of insecurity comes upon them,
and this feeling of insecurity makes them desirous of something
to lean upon. This “something to lean upon” naturally must be
greater than themselves so they conceive of what they call a God,
failing at the same time to realize that this God would be no more
and no less, either in quality or quantity, than their own concep-
tion of Him—and because Man’s physical nature is wrathful,
vengeful and jealous, so is his God. It cannot be otherwise for
Man can only create to the extent of his own dimension in time.
It also must be remembered that in comparison to all eise, your
Earth is considerably less than a flick of dust.
If the Earth itself is such an insignificant thing, where, you may
wonder, must Man stand in the scheme of things! Completely
blinded by the hypnotic power of the ego, we little cosmic shadows
97
r
i
move about on the face of this bit of cosmic dust that is whirling
away in a sea of nothingness.
But it must be kept in mind that the States called “largeness”
or “smallness” are no more than the conditions of one’s awareness
of his own physical body in comparison to that of another body
located at another point in space-time; and that also space-time
itself is of the same nature—that is, a necessary formation of the
consciousness to have something sufficiently different than itself to
lend it the feeling of separateness.
This illusion of separateness automatically creates the illusion
called space-time.
If the reader, provided he is at all desirous of freeing himself
from the complexities of fears that beset most of you living in the
physical body, will go back over the last page or two of these
writings and meditate upon them I think you will see how utterly
foolish it is to fear anything or anyone, for all of your fears are of
your own making and manifestations of your own desires, many of
which do not have their origin in the physical level of conscious­
ness and because they do not, you fail to see them for what they
really are.
Shortly after the two hundred inch telescope had been in
Operation at Palomar, I, unbeknownst to the astronomers there,
studied the heavens through its complicated mechanism. To say
that this new astronomical eye is one of the greatest bits of scien-
tific art achievement of your twentieth Century would be expressing
my thoughts mildly. Nevertheless, it is not a thing-in-itself, but is
the product of the minds of those who made it. Therefore, let
us not stand in awe of it, but let us bow our heads and give thanks
to the Great Mind who, working through the machine called the
“brain” of these individuals, made this monumental piece of work
possible.
While this “eye” can see a billion, two hundred million light
years away from your Earth, and your astronomers were astounded
to discover that the universe showed no signs of coming to an
end, even at that staggering distance, this fact should not frighten
you nor make you feel insecure, but should make you glow with
joy and sincere inward pride to realize how truly great you are!
I mean, of course, you as a consciousness.
98
A billion light years! That, my friends is no more than a mile
in consciousness, and but a breath in the measurement of mind-
time.
In my present state I have no use for your great telescope. I
can teil you that the universe Stretches out from everlasting to
everlasting. There can be no end to it simply because it is all
Mind, and there is no end to Mind.
Now let us look at the Universe from your materialistic stand-
point. That is, from the belief that it is something in itself, apart
from your individual consciousness. To begin with, it is but fool-
ishness to even try to give in figures the number of bodies in the
cosmos, for the consciousness of material man cannot comprehend
such figures. But, as numerous as they are, each and every one
of them is arranged in a very precise geometrical order in relation
to one another, and each has its own work to do.
While it is true that many of these bodies are constantly run-
ning into one another and being destroyed, all such destruction is
brought about the instant any form of unbalance Starts to take
place. Indeed, wherever we may look in Nature, destruction comes
in the wake of inharmony.
The old wives’ tale that “Nature abhors a vacuum” is nothing
more than just that—an old wives’ tale—for while both Man and
Nature can create vacuums of a kind there is really no such thing
as an absolute vacuum. It is true that both atmospheric and
etheric pressures are considerably less in outer space, and there-
fore a body can be made to travel at speeds far exceeding that of
light, but that body is not moving in a complete vacuum for the
existing void is but relative in density to the body moving in it.
Whether a vacuum is created artificially by Man or by Nature
makes little difference for in both cases only the grossest matter
is removed. That which is left is so dense in its parts that it is
out of the reach of any action that may be brought to bear upon
it from the three-dimensional world.
While Man may by his inquisitive nature do certain things
merely to see what the outcome will be, Nature acts with a very
definite purpose, and has a foregone conclusion as to what the re-
sults will be.
As far as vacuums go, I would say the only complete ones I
99
have ever found were in the heads of those who failed to think
for themselves.
Now I would like to make reference to the suns and the ap-
pearance of what are called sunspots.
Galileo, who was my idol as a child and whom 1 deeply ad-
mired throughout my adult life, thought sunspots were dust clouds
on the face of the sun or vapors. Other astronomers have thought
them to be everything from mountains to satellites. From my own
observation, I believe them to be huge tunnel-like formations pene-
trating from the surface inward, sometimes to the depth of 93
thousand miles, their diameters anything from a few hundred to
many thousands of miles. The interiors of these tunnels or tubes
are considerably cooler than the rest of the sun.
These Spots are formed after the sun has reached its highest
level of attraction of waste matter or stellar debris. The point of
Saturation of waste matter is not a constant but varies consider­
ably, depending on the amount of matter it has discharged from
itself during its period of repulsion.
The “tunnels” are atom-smashing tubes. Sometimes several
of these tubes form relatively close together; at other times hun-
dreds of thousands of miles apart—and they appear on different
parts of the sun’s surface or photosphere from time to time, de­
pending on the strongest point of magnetic attraction.
This feeding of the suns from stellar debris by the trillions of
tons has kept these suns from burning out billions of years ago,
and will keep them going for billions of years longer unless some
body of greater size, or equal size but greater mass weight, gets
off its orbit and crashes into one of them.
I say this despite the fact that many of your modern astrono­
mers do not believe it will last longer than from twenty to thirty
million more years—which is a paltry number of years in cosmic
time. They seem not to reckon with the fact that both destruction
and construction of vast bodies are going on constantly in the
starry realm, and that, more offen than not, when destruction takes
place a new supply of waste matter for the suns is created. And
more—the nature of the action of the particles that go to make up
the suns is entirely different from the matter that goes to make up
a flaming body that will later cool off and form a planet.
100
The particles that go to make up the photosphere are not burn-
ing but are condensations of such gases as hydrogen and helium,
and due to the tremendous gravitational pressures, they are com-
pressed into solids and are of extreme weight. These heavy glob­
ales of matter are floating in a sea made up of the same kind of
substance as that found in an extreme vacuum. The mass pressure
it exerts on the globules is so great as to hold them in their places
so that their only escape is by radiation.
Düring the period of the sun’s magnetic attraction, the corona’s
field is approximately three hundred and forty-six thousand miles,
but in repulsion it goes into violent action shooting great streams
of energy for millions of miles out into space. Space itself, through-
out the whole starry System, while appearing to be a void, is made
up of matter many times denser than any bodies in form.
The question will arise, no doubt, as to how these atom-smash-
ing tubes are formed and how they work. Let us picture, if we
can, a large hollow glass globe filled to capacity with highly pol-
ished but somewhat irregularly cut diamonds. The diamonds will
represent the globules of matter that send off photons, or light
ray particles. The space in between the diamonds we will All with
a heavy grade of oil. This we will call the umbra, or substance in
which the diamonds float around. This substance, being much
heavier, has a greater pull of gravity than the globules (or dia­
monds) and causes all matter that the suns attract to themselves
to fall into it.
However, due to the sun’s rotation, the matter thus attracted
strikes only certain parts of the sun’s surface and on entering
this “oily” matter it is crushed or ground up by the tremendous
pressure created by these globules of matter working against one
another. This crushing effect brings about tremendous atomic
explosions, with extensive chain reactions, forming gigantic rents
in the sun’s photosphere. After each initial explosion, vast Whirl­
pools are formed as the globules that make up the photosphere
rush madly to seal up the rent.
The action of these whirlpools is feit hundreds of miles above
the sun’s surface, dragging down into its rapidly spinning center
numberless tons of stellar debris, and when the mouth of the
Whirlpool has closed, another tremendous explosion follows shower-
ing your Earth and endless other bodies in space with a variety
101
of highly potent electrons, some of which will bring a more rapid
breakdown in the Chemicals of your Earth, while others bring a
greater growth.
Although it is the heat of the Sun that sustains life and growth
on the Earth as well as on all other planetary bodies, it is the
cosmic rays that start life and teil what forms are to be made and
what changes are to take place in them during their period of
existence.
Even provided such a body as the Moon had an atmosphere,
its lack of density might prohibit the formation of an ionized beit
in its upper layers and the lack of such a beit would automatically
leave that body open to receive the full brunt of the cosmic rays
which would mean death to all sap-producing bodies on such
planets. Also, where there is little or no plant life, a planet will
absorb heat from the sun much fastet during the day but the rate
of escape of the heat in its dark hours is very rapid. These sud-
den changes in temperature alone would prevent the existence of
life on the Moon or on Mercury.
Mars and Neptune, however, not only can but do have cer­
tain kinds of plant life which means that they possess an atmo­
sphere whose upper layers are ionized. Neptune’s vast distance
from the Sun permits it to get some sixty-four hundred times less
light and heat than Mercury, figuring that light and heat diminish
proportionately to the square of the distance. However, light is
not a “something” moving through another something called
“space,” but is kinetic energy created and let loose by the tre-
mendous perturbation of the Sun’s particles.
The vibratory motion of these heat units creates a wave-pat-
tern. These heatwaves then excite by induction the etheric par­
ticles into changing their magnetic alignment, which causes them
to reflect the motion of heatwaves. Nevertheless, the action would
still be measured by the inverse square of the distance, but this
time in proportion to mass vibratory intensity. If we were to take
into consideration the fact that no atom of matter ever actually
touches another, we may say with a great deal of truth that all
action takes place by induction.
On both Mars and Neptune, plant life growth is much heavier
in substance. While Martian plant life is more of a mossy, fungus-
like growth, in color mostly gray and rust-red with faded shades of
102
orange-yellow, Neptune’s plant life is considerable and spread over
a comparatively large area. It is very fibrous, with the quality of
heavy rubber, and in color much like that of Mars—a great deal
of sickly gray and rust-red, and some black. These plants produce
large, heavy leaves, but no Howers. The sap in them is very thick,
is of a mud-brown or very dark red color and smells to high
heaven. It would mean instant death were an earth-man to
breathe it since it consists mostly of carbon monoxide gas taken
from an atmosphere that is heavy with ammonia.
The Martian atmosphere is somewhat like the Earth’s, but it
too is well filled with ammonia gas, especially at its poles, the
central portion being the purest. There we find some plant life
that nearly resembles that found on the Earth, even to its greenness.
Tremendous winds sweep across the central part from time to
time, being more prevalent in the summer months and they sweep
millions of tons of iron oxide dust into the Martian skies. Some-
times it happens that this red Martian dust is driven into outer
space where it moves between the Sun and the Earth, causing the
Sun to appear red for many days.
This sloughing off of planets and asteroids is much more pre­
valent than is commonly believed. Quite often, too, some of this
planet and asteroid dust comes close enough to Earth to be caught
in the clouds. Then the water that falls to Earth may be black,
red, or almost any other color and the suns may appear red, green
or blue.
To speak again of Neptune—because this planet is some thirty
times further from your Sun than is the Earth, it is thought to be
a world of eternal darkness and ice. This is not true, however,
for while Neptune does get little radiation of heat units from the
Earth’s sun, it is in alignment with suns in other solar Systems
which are millions of times larger than the Earth’s sun, so it is
anything but frozen wasteland. Its summers are very long but
mild—somewhat on the order of the Earth’s fall months. Its win­
ters, while long in comparison to Earth’s, are very much shorter
than its summers, but unbelievably cold and in more or less of a
constant state of agitation by bitterly cold winds, both of its poles
remaining in a constant state of ice.
Due to its huge size and mass weight, Neptune attracts to it­
self far more cosmic rays than either Mars or the Earth.
103
1
Now I would like to speak briefly of what is called gravity and
its nature. As much of what I have already said about matter and
its varied forms of action is perhaps new to many of your physi-
cists, and may not meet with the approval of some of these able-
minded men and women, it is probably too late to turn back from
my sinful ways, so I must continue on the path I set out upon.
By this, I simply mean that my views on gravity and its laws also,
no doubt, will be outside the pale of accepted beliefs.
Everything being equal, perhaps it would be advisable that in
our learning we take everything cum grano salis. In so doing, we
are not liable to be too far wrong in the things we finally accept
as facts. So now, if the reader häs his salt-shaker in hand, I shall
proceed to expound by theory of gravity.
Let us start by pretending space to be a vast sea, as in many
ways it really is. The deeper we go into a body of water the
greater becomes the pressure on our bodies per square inch of
the body surface and we find this same condition is true in the
sea of space.
Man on Earth is like the fish that live in the depths of the
ocean, for both can rise only to a given level of sea or space, or
they will die from lack of oxygen or too much of it. And if taken
too far up, the growing lack of pressure which their body struc­
ture has been designed to stand will cause it to bürst outward.
It may seem that I have been speaking of air and water pres­
sure alone, but you will soon see that neither water nor air has
any pressure in itself, for the force they exert against man or fish
is due to the force called “gravity,” and the degree of the pressure
varies considerably depending on the cosmic body one inhabits
and its mass weight.
If the mass weight of every body in space could be given, we
would find that the Cosmic Designer must be a stupendous genius
in geometrical precision.
But let us go back to consideration of the fish in the sea and
man in the atmosphere. If the mass weight of the fish, let us say,
is four pounds, he will displace four pounds of water; or, if it is a
whale, weighing up into the tons, he will displace an equal tonnage
of water, and this is also true of men as well as all other things
living or existing in the Earth’s atmosphere. However, as we move
104
out into space away from whatever body we have been living upon,
we find our bodies either expanding, due to lack of accustomed
pressures, or contracting, due to too much pressure—which means
that our bodies will explode or be crushed into a more compact
state. For instance, if an Earth man landed on Neptune he would
not be able to move around. And more—he would likely be
crushed to a pulp, due to the tremendous pull gravity has on that
body; and a Neptune man, if he could land on the Earth would
soon explode for lack of gravitational pressure per square inch
on his body.
Provided all the above is true about the force called “gravity,”
and provided that we are agreed that all is matter working in one
form of motion or another, then perhaps we may concede that
gravity is matter out of which comes all form and shape—as in­
deed we suggest to be the case.
Gravity, being made up of fields of successive grades of densi-
ties (or, if you prefer, degrees of rarefaction), and not necessarily
electromagnetic in itself, but simply magnetic and electrical when
working upon bodies of greater mass, varies in its nature accord-
ing to the density of the body or the lack of it. Now, if we con-
sider the ethers as gravitational fields of varied densities, we can
say that there are what are called ether drifts, which means that
while a steady downdrift of the ethers on one part of the Earth
may be, speaking arbitrarily, 60 miles per second, on another it
may be 80 to 86. Where such drifts are very slow, it may well be
due to some erratic action taking place on another heavenly body
closely related to the Earth, and such action may produce either
a warp or a vortex in the gravitational fields. The Sun is the body
most likely to bring about this condition.
I could go on writing about these things until I had a volume
so vast, that, no matter how fast one were capable of reading, he
could spend his entire life reading it and still have plenty for his
children and his children’s children to spend a lifetime with. This
will give you an idea not only of the endless nature of this sub-
ject, but of the minute amount that I have given here.
105
ARAKASHI
Less is known about this personality than any of the others of
the Inner Circle. All that the Inner Circle can, or will, teil is that
he was a guru or holy man and that he lived and died in the Pun­
jab district of India. They suggest his days were numbered from
1398 to 1420. His teachings were “Buddhistic.”
The members of the Inner Circle, described in biographical
sketches, on this sheet, are teachers. Through Mark Probert, they
are giving us, infinite wisdom and knowledge, to help us under-
stand this life and perhaps prepare us to some degree, for the life
that is to come.
106
TIME, SPACE AND
CONSCIOUSNESS
Arakashi:
What can man say of these three things? As far back as man
can call upon the known history of his first appearance on the
earth he has pondered on the nature of time, space and conscious­
ness; and yet the vast majority of mankind are no more enlightened
regarding them now, in your present day, than the greater ma­
jority were in the beginning. This, of course, is not surprising to
those who have truly sought to acquire knowledge of life.
The words of your Master, the Christ, were surely not spoken
in jest when He said, “Seek and ye shall find,” and “Knock and
the door shall open unto you.”
The greatest difficulty the Western World has to contend with
in the learning of occult matters is the excessively restless minds
of her inhabitants, and their more or less subconscious state of
boredom. In a männer this condition is good but in the long run
it tends towards indifference and the learning of half-truths; half-
truths breed greater doubt and doubt leaves you in a greater quan-
dary than no knowledge at all.
We, of the “Inner Circle,” have said much in the past three
years on the subject of Time, Space and Consciousness, and I do
not feel that what I may say now shall add greatly to it but I write
it here so that it will become part of this book and be read in
some distant future and perhaps be better understood.
Time, most of you are taught to believe, is something in itself
and has to do with your world only—and more, that it is some­
thing quite apart from you as an individual. And Space is re-
garded in much the same männer; and Consciousness is limited to
the physical body and therefore cannot exist apart from it or ex-
tend beyond it.
I fully realize that I am not adding a thing to what almost all
of your known philosophers have repeatedly said—that Time,
Space and Consciousness are not three separate entities in them-
107
selves but are modes or conditions of the one state, namely wakeful
awareness of the seif to the seif. No body is necessary for the seif
to function in; a body is merely an expression or mode of the seif,
and is best suited for that seif to acquire the knowledge that will
be helpful to its own growth in whatever state of awareness it may
make for itself.
There are endless modes of time and space, simply because
Consciousness is an infinite and unbroken circle; and there is no
escape for man from this circle unless an individual can become
oblivious of and to himself. Such a condition would then imply
a void, a complete state of nothingness. Then, such a law would
not only tend to show that all of our substance or matter has both
a beginning and an end and that by some as yet unknown process
something is born out of nothing—it would prove it as a fact.
Man does not move around in space, but in consciousness, or
modes of consciousness. Consciousness is not a quality or quantity
locked up in the head or heads of people and things. It is a motion
of matter and extends into eternal “space,” is perhaps a hundred
million times denser than any separate substance known to you
at present.
If one could only be brought to realize that there is no such
thing as physical senses, but that the body possesses channels
through which the seif, or psyche, makes himself or itself aware
of the mental constructions or extensions of others, as well as his
own! If this were not so, a personality that had once quit his
physical vehicle could have no further Connections with that par­
ticular phase of consciousness. Self-willed trance is the consciously
giving over of these channels by the original operator of a body to
another operator who has discarded his own physical body for new
experiences in consciousness. Obsession, in such case, seldom
takes place in self-induced trance for a longer period of “time”
than that which was agreed upon by the acting “medium” and his
or her control. As a rule, it is the visiting entity that stipulates the
allotted time for it knows best the amount of energy it can safely
absorb from the physical body without bringing harm to it.
In what you call subconscious Obsession, there exists a com-
plication of dissenting forces at work. To begin with, the physical
body of the one so possessed has not been prepared or condi-
108
tioned in any männer for the ordeal. This causes the victim to
lose far more nervous energy than he or she can normally stand.
The conscious seif, not knowing what is taking place with its
physical seif, continues to make its accustomed demands on it, find-
ing it will not respond, the ego becomes agitated. This agitation acts
as fright and deep anxiety on the nervous System; this, in tum,
causes the adrenalin glands to overact, and of course all other
glands throughout the body will have to meet the abnormal de-
mand—all of which are staggering blows to the personality of
the individual concerned and causes him to forcibly lose control of
his own physical seif for short or long periods of time. Then, if
the invading entity knows how, it can galvanize the body into
action. Some obsessing entities are so proficient in their ability to
control a body that it takes an expert with a full understanding of
para-normal activity to discover them.
All spicy foods should be eliminated from an obsessed per-
son’s diet and he should not be allowed to have the least bit of
alcohol but he should never be allowed to go without food longer
than four to five hours, and the sex energies should be kept at a
low ebb. For one hour every day the person should be placed
under a hypnotic spell and the entity in possession talked to in a
kindly but firm männer. He should be advised of the harm he is
committing on the physical machine of another, its dispossessed
owner, to say nothing of the great retardation of its own growth
and future advancement. Now, let us go back to the subject of
Space-Time again.
If your men of Science hope to understand more clearly the
phenomena of life, they will have to come sooner or later to the
realization that this thing which we call “space-time” is not in its
true nature an objective over-all element, but a very subjective
personified. activity that is projected from the seif in compact, ex-
tremely minute impulses. On the gross earth plane these impulses
are what you call Chemical particles—called this simply because
the nuclear structure of these impulses can be so arranged as to
form what you think of as matter—however, only the kind that is
suited for your three-dimensional way of thinking. But deep within
the gross matter field there lies a more subtle field known as the
etheric plane. It is from this next higher vibratory rate that
solidified matter draws its energy that keeps it functioning in the
109
physical world. When a physical body of any kind Starts to de-
teriorate and go through the state you call “death” it is because
the channels through which it absorbs this etheric energy have
failed, for one cause or another. The energy-matter that went to
make up that particular body will go through many forms before
it again flows back into its original state of formless matter.
All that man sees is matter in motion, and then almost always
only one phase of it called the physical world.
When seemingly stränge phenomena, such as odd-looking air-
craft and countless other things, come to your notice, you can be
assured that it is one form of matter merging with another that
has an affinity or strong pull of attraction for it. Sometimes the
force of attraction is so great that the speed at which they meet
causes them to do what you call explode. An explosion is but one
of the many ways that one dimension has of merging with another
by sudden and violent breakdown, or deterioration, and almost
instant regrouping to form new substance.
110
MIND FORCE
Arakashi:
No two substances are alike, for each has its own particular
rate of vibratory movement. Yet each must have a pole of dia-
metrical Opposition as well as one of attraction; and it is in one
or the other of these poles that mind force goes to work, manipu-
lating matter, molding it into three-dimensional form.
It is wrongly supposed that gravitation is some form of three-
dimensional energy at work. It is mind force working on or in
Chemical fields. It directs the electrons that spin around the atom,
as well as the astronomical bodies that spin around the suns. Mat­
ter of itself has neither shape nor form other than that desired by
mind, and the seeming endlessness of matter is due to the fathom-
less nature of mind, which is without beginning or end.
At the present point of your civilization, you are still without
the conscious knowledge of how to direct your thought forces to
mold matter in visual form so it still remains what you would call
a subconscious activity. This knowledge was once yours when
you existed in former lives in other civilizations that have long
gone down into dust. Every civilization acquires this knowledge
after it has reached a certain high state of consciousness; but each
and all in the past misused it to dominate the masses, thereby
bringing about their sudden and violent end.
It must be remembered and thoroughly understood that the
particular body in which man may be operating is of no true im-
portance to life. So, if what he does causes the eventual destruc­
tion of that body, whether it is of one or a hundred million such
bodies, no real calamity has been suffered as far as life goes. It is
only the emotional centers of the body that cause the individual
mind to assume that a great or a small disaster has taken place,
the size and importance of the assumed tragedy depending on how
it affects man as an individual. So, you see, it is not the body that
is important to man, but the consciousness.
The true God is not vengeful, nor has “It” any of the negative
attributes of the Jewish God of your Christian Bible. “Its” actions
111
are in no way motivated by what physical man calls emotion—and
more, “It” is not Cognizant of matter in shape and form, whether
it be that of man, animal or things—for all of these are the One
Thing, and God is interested in and aware of that One only. The
essence of that One is conscious awareness. Without it, nothing
could exist on any plane.
Now, a word to those who have been raised in the Christian
orthodox churches, and who through such teachings have come
to believe that “The Lord thy God is a jealous God” who suffers
his children to go through the alleged tortures of a purgatory. I
can only say that such beliefs are best suited for you until such
time as you awaken to life’s greater purpose. There is only this
to remember: Lije is as you believe it to be, and you are your
thoughts. So, whatsoever you believe, do so with all your heart.
But, whatever your thoughts, do not be ashamed of them, but
face them and try to understand them—for truthfully, all thoughts
are of God. If they seem wrong or evil to you, it is only because
your physical seif has, through the emotional body, misinterpreted
the thought impulse or mental picture. A wrong Interpretation
brings about a wrong act.
It is my belief that neither man nor animal commits an act
of any kind, good or bad, for the act itself, nor because his act
will bring pleasure or pain to another—because no one separate
individual can really know what constitutes pain or pleasure for
or in another. Of course, we assume we know, but our assumption
is based only on our individual feeling as to what gives us pleasure
or pain. Certain kinds of pleasure for one can be extreme pain to
another, and vice versa.
When a man sets out to torture another, he does not start
doing so by conjuring up in his mind what mode of torture would
be most unpleasant for that other, but by imagining what would
be most unbearable to himself. A masochist is an inhibited sadist,
and a sadist is an inhibited masochist. A man giving alms to
charity does so not because he is capable of sensing the great relief
from lack it will bring to another but because the giving brings
him a bolstering of his own ego and sense of self-security.
When a man and woman who claim to have great love for
one another set out to culminate that love in the sex act, they sel-
112
dom do so with the desire to bring pleasure to one another, but
strictly to themselves; and in the few cases where they may really
consider the other above themselves, their ideas are formed and
acted upon by what brings the greatest sense of gratification to
their own physical bodies and minds.
What 1 am attempting to get at is merely the fact that we are
all unknown quantities to one another. One man never comes face
to face with another man but what he comes face to face with
himself, but not knowing himself, others appear as an X-quantity to
him. If all this is true, is it not logical to obey the teaching of all
the Great Teachers; that you love one another? For in so doing,
you really love yourself.
I have intended this present writing as a continuation of my
earlier chapter, but you may well ask what the last few pages of
writing have to do with time, space, and consciousness. To that I
may say “Everything”—for all that man does he does in a mode
of space-time, which is consciousness.
“Subconscious” and “unconscious” are practically the same
States for all either of them can mean is a different mode of aware­
ness. Mind, being free, is not limited to any particular one of the
endless modes of awareness—and, indeed, can hold a sense aware­
ness to several modes at one and the same time. We do not, of
course, advocate that he allow himself to fall into this state of
duality, for it is not good. He can learn but little, and that little
will be much too confused to gain him anything of worth. We feel
that to really comprehend what is going on upon one plane, it is
far better to block off all the others.
To prove this last point, follow Nature. Natural sleep is Na-
ture’s way of blocking off your outward state of consciousness,
giving rest to the physical body and bringing into action the mental
body. The various stages of trance are the blocking off of the dif­
ferent modes of consciousness so that the mental body can be
entirely free on the one particular plane where the Self is seeking
to work.
Let us talk a little on a few attributes of man that your present-
day scientists are struggling with—apparently with great difficulty.
These attributes are called paranormal simply because they are in
such little use and therefore little understood. We refer to mental
113
communication—not only between those still existing in the phy­
sical realm but between the two worlds and so-called precognition,
clairvoyance, and clairaudience. In many of the previous pages of
this book we have mentioned these subjects in one manner or an­
other, but here we will try dealing with them in a more conclusive
fashion.
We know as well as you do that these subjects have been dealt
with in an exhaustive manner by some of your greatest scientific
minds and these men and women deserve much credit for their
tireless efforts. We of the “Inner Circle” have no desire to affront
them in presenting our humble opinions on these matters. We do
rather hope that what we have to say will in some measure give
them a somewhat clearer light to work by. We also hope that our
rather unorthodox manner of approach will not scare them away
before they finish reading and giving some consideration to the
following paragraphs.
First, in regard to mental communication, or what you call
“telepathy”—we wish to strike at this boldly by stating flatly that
there is absolutely no such thing as the latter, but there very
definitely is the former. By this, we mean that to use the word
“telepathy” is to imply something sent through space by a wave of
energy from a given point to another given point. Such a concept is
entirely due to your assumption that space-time is something apart
from the individual—outside of him, as it were—and having an exis­
tence of its own. We, of course, can readily understand how one still
living in the physical body can arrive at such conclusions, for we at
one time also thought the same. But let us assure you, my good
friends, that this is decidedly not the true Situation—and we are not
now talking philosophically, but are relating facts as clearly as we
can with words.
If space-time was an existing condition, separate from con­
sciousness, then consciousness could never become aware of it;
but space-time is consciousness and is everywhere present. It never
began and therefore shall never end, and there is no motion to it.
That which you see in motion is a creation of It, Consciousness,
and these endless States of motion are molded into gases, liquids
and solids, according to the needs of the varied and endless modes
of consciousness. Some of these modes are what physical man calls
time and environment.
114
Now, in respect to the physical brain of man—and animal as
well—there is a brain wave. These brain waves are the points of
contact between the mode of consciousness called the physical man
and another mode of consciousness called the Spirit, or High Self
of the individual. It is by the strength of these brain waves that
the High Self makes all of its so-called sense contacts with the
physical world; and they are created by the Chemical composition
of the body. If the body becomes chemically maladjusted, a small
or large change takes place in these brain waves, and the High Self
senses that change and the physical man feels himself out of har-
mony with life, calling himself sick, or blind, or deaf, or lacking
in one way or another.
These Chemical mutations are constantly taking place in the
body but no two bodies are affected in precisely the same männer,
for the “I” consciousness of each individual interprets these changes
in its own way. The effects, therefore, are not brought about so
much by the actual Chemical changes itself as by what the “I”
consciousness of that particular body has learned to consider as
being normal or abnormal to it.
This is why hypnosis is capable of bringing about a so-called
eure or readjustment of diseases of the physical body, including the
brain. The physical extension of the mind called “the body” is
placed in abeyance, and the seif is engaged in a calm and reason-
able conversation, in which it is told that the Chemical change
that is giving it discomfort can be changed back to normal. The
physical body, with its stresses of beliefs, being disconnected and
disassociated from the mind, then will not argue against the con-
structive suggestions, and when it is again given conscious con-
trol of its physical extension, it will go to work bringing about the
necessary changes. The spoken words of the hypnotist have be-
come engraved in the consciousness of the High Self in the form
of stress lines, and on becoming aware of its physical vehicle again,
these stress lines will, in turn, be impressed upon the cells of the
physical brain that operates the nervous system. The nervous Sys­
tem accepts the suggestions by what may be called the law of Irri­
tation and imparts the message to the glandular system. This then
excites the cells of the glands into manufacturing the proper Chemi­
cals which will then be carried by the blood stream and will rapidly
bring back to normal the offending parts of the body.
115
MATERIAL VIA THOUGHT
Arakashi:
As you will remember, I have previously remarked upon the
fact that all is motion and in motion—that there is no way of
side-stepping or getting back of motion. We cannot even think it,
for the moment we attempt to think we create motion for thought
is energy in action. So now, on this theory, I shall attempt to
explain how deep-seated thought, or concentration, produces
what you call physical or material things.
The art of spontaneous precipitation by willing consciously is
a lost art on the physical plane and is seldom recovered while in
the earth body. I think the reason for this is because it is not really
needed and, as I told you before, without the impulse called need,
there can be no-thing.
Now, the physical man does not think but is merely the ma-
chine that is acted upon by the true man, which in Sanscrit is
called Atman, meaning The Self. It is in Aiman that you will find
the seat of memory also, and forgetfulness in the physical man
comes about simply because the Atman has, for one reason or
another, lost momentary contact with man or His machine that
He uses to express Himself with on the material plane.
I have often thought what a great deal of time and energy
could be saved if all questions regardless of their nature, could be
stated in one or two sentences and let drop; but questions, even
some of the most trivial, are like all eise pertaining to life—com-
plicated to the point of mysticism. I remark this simply because
I realize all too well that whatever I may say on the subject con-
cerning “Material via Thought,” there will be literally dozens of
people who could add endless more to what I have to say, or take
away much of my written thought on the matter, simply by ap-
proaching it from another angle.
Atman is the Great Knower—knowing all there is to know,
fully comprehending the atomic structure of all Chemical Com­
pounds that go to make up any material thing. Man need not
know; all man need learn to do is how to turn the mental picture
116
of a thing completely over to Atman; and the only way man can
do this is by what we shall call deep-seated trance, for the want of
a better term. Of course, as there are no set laws to be found
anywhere in life, trance, the complete giving-over of man to At­
man, is an arbitrary condition. The Adept, Christ, demonstrated
this in the multiplication of food matter, while in full consciousness
—but the ability to do so, in the comparative few who have at-
tained it, is theirs because these individuals are living on the
border that divides the subjective and objective worlds, and so have
continual contact.
For endless eons of time before Earth’s form of aggregated
matter came into being, man’s life was a subjective one. There
were, however, many grades of subjectivity. The lowest of these
at that time was what we shall call the low etheric.
At that time this plane of consciousness was considered by
many to be Hell, in practically the same way many people on your
Earth plane consider your Earth, and for precisely the same rea-
son, although most of those on your Earth plane are unaware con-
sciously of why they think so—the true reason being that matter,
as you come down the planes, is more Condensed; and the more
Condensed matter becomes, the more violent in its parts it is; and
so it is only natural that the deeper Atman, or pure consciousness,
tries to enter into material substance, the greater becomes its
sense of pain and suffering. Pain in certain parts of the body is
due to the chaotic change taking place in the Chemical construc-
tion of those parts. Any and all Chemical changes are violent in
nature. This state of violence we can term a state of uncertainty
in the consciousness of the atom. This condition is absolutely
necessary for the atom, because it harasses the atom into becoming
something. It is similar to the force called need that dwells in
Atman; it is a form of fear per se, the fear of the unknown or the
possibility of losing its identity and becoming nothing. However,
for Atman to become aware of this Chemical activity is painful in
the extreme, because it makes him that much more consciously
aware of himself not as himself, but of being something eise. In
other words, his consciousness merges with that of the conscious­
ness of the atom that is changing its Chemical pattem, and that of
course causes him to believe he is suffering pain or unhappiness.
And the reason for Atman’s sensing pain in his physical vehicle
117
is simply because the dense Chemical atoms are built around his
psychic stresses. The Chemical substance called the body has no
sense of what we call pain and Atman cannot and does not be-
come aware of pain unless it comes into contact with the violent
nature of the Chemical world.
Before low physical matter came into birth, man—or rather,
Atman—enjoyed continued existence, going from one plane of
consciousness to another without the illusion you call “death.”
This was not only true of man, but of all things pertaining to life.
Your natural question here would be, “If life continued in all
things, why did not the ‘worlds’ become overrun with an abundance
of all things to such an extent as to make it impossible to have
any further room for anything?” To answer that question with any
hope of making you understand, I must first teil you, as I have
before, that the Etheric World is not of a particular nature—at any
rate, not the kind you seem to feel you know about on your earth
today. Matter is not governed by directional motion, but by
vibratory motion.
In your world any kind of motion is considered directional,
simply because matter lends the impression of having parts, and
this gives you the idea that substance is a thing in itself—that is,
that it has an actual existence of its own and apart from you. But
let me say here, and with the deepest sense of sincerity that such a
condition does not actually exist, either on your plane, my plane,
nor the etheric plane. If this were truly so, then nothing on your
plane could either change or go through the illusion of death.
When a human body devoid of the life spark is buried in the earth
and goes through what appears to you the act of decomposing, you
are observing activity of only one end of the endless stick. On my
end I see no decaying process, but merely a merging of energy
pushed into motion by Creational Desire Force.
The Creational Desire Force works on something of this order:
The Thought Creational Desire is “That of which nothing can be
said”—It is all things and no-thing. It is the essence of all form
and shape, and yet in itself it is both formless and shapeless. It
becomes particulate in character on demand of “Itself.” It does
this by forming into an endless series of what for a more accurate
term I shall call electrical impulses. These impulses are the very
118
beginning of material substance that you know of on your plane
of consciousness. “It” is the energy that holds matter together.
It creates a magnetic field and has the tremendous gravitational
pull of millions of horsepower. This is the reason for the unbe-
lievable force science has to use to smash the atom. This Desire
Force can and does enter into all States of consciousness that the
individual minds, or Mind, directs it to, its nature and activity
being different on the particular plane it enters into. On the gross
physical plane, the force becomes an energy, the energy acting on
other energies already brought into being by minds that came be­
fore. These different States of mind-energy create what you call
different Chemicals and a combination of these mind Chemicals
makes what you see to be material substance.
Now the mechanics of consciously bringing a physical-chemi­
cal object into being from the inner or abstract world of thought
is extremely difficult and fraught with many dangers. Temporary
amnesia is the least of these dangers, complete loss of one’s own
personality is the worst. It is absolutely necessary for an individual
seeking to become a “conscious creator” of form to first purify
both mind and body and as a general rule to accomplish the lat-
ter entails many years of self-discipline of the most rigorous na­
ture, so what I have to say here can bring no greater harm to the
ignorant experimenter than normal sleep, or at worst, mild forms
of disassociation of short duration, and this will be enough to
discourage his foolish efforts. Much has been said against the
advisability of giving out the so-called mystical truths of life to
the people at large, but this attitude on the part of the alleged
teachers and priestcraft of occultism is due largely to their desire
to retain personal power over the ignorant masses, and it is such
dogmatism that we of the “Inner Circle” have come to fight and
to destroy. Every individual coming into the physical world should
at least be given the opportunity to know he is potentially God.
The great majority of those entering the physical plane, though
they may have been here many times before, are sleepers. They
are still laboring under the hypnotic trance of physical desire that
brought them back here and it is therefore of tantamount import-
ance that they be awakened, and if those who are in a position to
do this fail, then who shall accomplish it? And what better way is
there to rouse these sleepers than by arousing their curiosity and
119
Holding it until you have their full attention? But their will to stay
awake will be lost if the teacher does not keep the bright object
of promise dangling before their eyes.
How is the awakening process best to be accomplished? First,
by Stripping the bright glitter of materialism of its fascinating quali-
ties. Calling materialism illusion or maya without being able to
demonstrate what are termed spiritual realities is but a waste of
words and signifies nothing. To teil a hungry man there is bread
to be had is cruel and senseless unless you have bread to give him.
A teacher of life does not seek pupils; it is the pupils who seek
him. When this is done the teacher knows that the pupil is at
least ready to listen. Then he will put certain questions to the
pupil to ascertain his memory and constructive powers. If they
prove not to be good he will start out by giving him lessons that
will soon develop these powers to such a marked degree he will
in some cases be able to recall not only things that happened to
him years ago but even some of the activities of his former life.
Then the next step will be to impress upon him that truth is an
individual thing and comes to the individual only in ratio to the
degree of wakefulness of that one. It is for this reason that he must
never criticize or belittle another’s opinions but on the other hand
must not accept anything pertaining to life on mere hearsay but
must seek by experimentation to discover the truth. Only in this
way can we really know.
This teaching is then followed with a course in right eating, in
order to free the body of Chemical irritations. The pupil is then
taught general body control. Some of these exercises include the
taking of a variety of postures and Holding them for hours at a
time without the moving of a muscle. The pupil must develop
this control to such a point that he will suffer no strain or dis-
comfort of either body or mind. This brings in the teaching of
breath and how to use the lungs to their full and normal capacity,
and how to consciously breathe in certain ways that will stimulate
into action many brain cells that would not be otherwise aroused;
and also how to direct the prana or breath to certain parts of the
body that are out of harmony with the rest of the body, thereby
curing himself of any ailment that may beset him. And also he
must learn how to extend this power to heal others.
120
Some of your more advanced psychiatrists and psychologists
and a few of your men of medicine are of late beginning to awaken
to what has long been known by some of the real teachers and
students of the Inner Wisdom—namely, that the body not only of
humans but of all things is constantly sending off or radiating
energy, each its own kind. All living things are like dynamos
generating and emitting energy. Now the human being has what
we may call a control mechanism, whereby he can consciously let
off or retain the energy flow at will; but unfortunately the majority
of mankind, not knowing anything about the power of mind, are
constantly suffering from energy “leaks.” This continued sub­
conscious waste of vital forces leads sooner or later to what is not
always too well understood but rightfully called, “nervous break-
down.” It is thought generally that a nervous breakdown is due
largely to what is called escapism on the part of the sufferer—that
such a one, having to face too many conflicting situations with
no adequate solution to any of them, finally flees from all of them
by turning himself into an invalid. This is true in part but only in
part. To get a clearer picture of this particular malady we must
come to the knowledge that for every motion the body makes, and
for every thought that passes through the channels of the brain,
actual energy in the form of heat is manufactured and thrown oft
by the nervous System. This creates a magnetic field around the
body. Then there is a Chemical field created by the constant
breakdown and building up of the Chemicals of which the body is
made. I am sure that it is known that nervous breakdowns are
brought about by the mental and emotional attitudes we have to
our experiences. Some of these attitudes are called feelings of
boredom and futility and in tum we are lead into a chain of bad
habits—such as over-eating, improper respiration and inability to
fully relax. Now, sum this all up and you have a body packed
with tension. These lines of tension pull the muscles and tendons
into a knot which pinches down on blood vessels and nerves.
Something has to give! The more or less violent activity called
hysteria is the final peak reached before sudden collapse of the
nerve system takes place.
My point in saying all this is to make you understand that the
energy the body manufactures and radiates is real and tangible and
subject to measurement, and can be used by individuals who have
121
mastery over themselves to consciously bring three-dimensional
form into being.
Conventional physics has led man to believe that three-dimen­
sional form is real and substantial. But your more learned physicist
will teil you that a physical-chemical object is rarefied to the point
of being ninety per cent space, or what is known as nothingness,
and that which is called space or the ether is extremely more
dense than any known substance. The reason for this seems to lie
in the fact that no two atoms of which form is made touch one
another, and that, relatively speaking, their distances from one
another can be compared with those separating your heavenly
bodies. And that which holds them together or drives them farther
apart is called the field of attraction and repulsion, or positive and
negative poles. Now, you can take a bar of iron which may seem
real and very solid to your eyes and sense of touch, but which is
as porous as a piece of sponge, and if you heat this bar, you will
find it will at first start to bend and then to run like water. Why?
Simply because heat steps up the vibratory rate of its molecules,
thus creating a greater negative field than existed in it while cold.
This drives the molecules further apart. Now, while you have
changed the form called a “bar” of iron, you have not in any way
changed the substance called iron because it has become liquid.
You may change it all into vapor but it will still remain “iron”
vapor. Now all this latter is well-known even by the schoolboy;
I wish only to make clear that a human body contains all the
known elements; and the mind in deep meditation knows how,
with the aid of breath and kundalini forces to segregate the neces-
sary Chemicals from the body and project them into the thought-
form mold, thereby creating a three-dimensional object.
To those who consider such a feat impossible we have nothing
to say and to those who feel there may be a possibility of truth
in it, but who are likely to consider such deeds as “miracles,” we
ask that you but remember this: there is no such thing as a
miracle and that which seems to be so is due to a true lack of
interest in what you are observing, and therefore a faulty under­
standing for when one seeks earnestly, the truth of all forms of
motion is given to him and then he sees quite clearly that all that
takes place in any state of consciousness conforms to certain laws.
When we work by these ways all mysteries and miracles vanish into
122
their natural non-existent state.
Is it not said of the Master Christ, that on performing what
seemed miracles before the people, he said, “These things which
ye see me do, ye also shall do—and greater things shall ye do.”
And what were some of these things that Christ did? He healed
the sick, restored sight to the blind, raised the dead, controlled the
elements, walked on water, took comparatively small quantities
of matter and multiplied them into large quantities, and very
adequately demonstrated the continuity of life or consciousness.
Now, dear friends just think of these things! And yet your so-
called teachers of the Christian religion, along with your alleged
men of material science would laugh you out of existence were
you to say that you could do any one of these things! And if they
did find you could prove your Claims, the priestcraft would shout
to the world that you were in league with the powers of darkness,
and would have nothing further to do with you, apart from perse-
cuting you at every opportunity. And your men of science would
hound you to your grave with their endless quest for more and
more “proof;” for their real desire is not to have you prove you
can, but that you cannot.
Knowing this to be the way of man at large, who is lost in the
dark jungles of his own personal ego, we advise all true seekers
of life to hold their own counsel. Your efforts should always be
in developing and expanding your own state of consciousness; and
to do this rightly you must keep what you learn strictly to your-
self, giving of your learning only when it is asked for eamestly.
And then you must speak with a feeling of humility and kindness
towards your listeners, for if you show yourself or feel at all irri-
tated or in any way superior to those who seek you, you will but
demonstrate the fact that you really know nothing of what you
are saying. The truths of life need no defenders. It is wisely
said, “One who seeks to defend his beliefs is himself not secure
in them.”
123
DR. SUKUTO NIKKIOI
124
THE EVOLUTION OF FORM
and
THE EVERdBECOMING OF MIND
Dr. Sukuto Nikkioi:
The materialistic scientist, through his own particular way of
thinking—to which, of course, he has every right—feels fairly
certain that that which is called “life” is a form of activity origi-
nating out of matter. In other but not more understandable
terms, that the combining of certain as yet unknown Chemicals in
a particular way will produce life.
There is not only one serious point of objection to such a
theory, but many. However, let us take the most obvious one,
the one which poses, possibly, the most annoying problem of all—
namely, “Where did matter spring from? Out of what?”
It is foolish to say that some kind of primordial dust existing
in space started to combine either by a known or an unknown law.
Besides that, when your physical scientists speak of matter at all,
they are largely considering three-dimensional matter and its end­
less forms of activity, but there are, in truth, endless dimensions
in which matter exists. Using the English symbol, the ultimate of
these we will call Mind. Now if Man knows nothing about any
of the intermediate dimensions, except by possible mathematical
deductions, he can have no conception whatsoever of the dimen-
sion called Mind.
What I am now about to say may seem to be contradicting
what I have said above but if you will take the trouble to read
it carefully you will see that I have merely re-arranged the word-
ing.
Neither that which I have named the ultimate, called “Mind,”
nor any of the alleged dimensions existing between, are to be
pictured as actual localized points in space but truly one and all
are forms of activity.
Now, when we consider the constant but nonetheless futile
debates that have raged pro and con on this particular subject
by the greatest mentalities the Earth has known—often to the
point of bloodshed—without one iota of comprehensible proof
125
existing on either side, we realize that the only persons satisfied
with the answers were those who uttered them. Even these, un-
less they were completely bigoted morons, on finding themselves
alone and with no one to display their brilliance to, came to the
realization that all the Statements they had made on the subject
were merely their own personal opinions, and that most of these
were garnished by the fears and uncertainties that exist to vary-
ing degrees in all of us.
Should we say to you, “Go and study the works of Plato,
Pythagoras, Aristotle, Kant. Or Zoroaster, Jesus the Christ, and
Gautama Siddhartha, founder of Buddhism?” Of course you may
if you please—and we won’t envy you your task. For, while we
have no wish to discourage anyone in his pursuit of knowledge,
we feel we must teil you that those we named will be but an nth
of what you will have read once you get started in the direction
of truth-seeking. There are literally hundreds of tons of volumes,
writings on the so-called truths and untruths of life. For Man is
the Creator; and of Him all things pour in a never-ending stream
and unto Him all things must return.
The last Statement has been affirmed down through the ages
by great thinkers but it has also been denied by others who were
undoubtedly equally great in thinking capacity, and for the same
number of ages.
Pondering on this seemingly impossible state of affairs, we
assume that in advising you what to do, the logical procedure
would be to let you make up your own individual mind, choose
one or the other of these paths and advise you to stay on it just
so long as it brings you happiness and peace of mind to do so—
for that is truly all that matters.
There is one sure guarantee given us in life—and that is
simply this: somewhere in the larger scheme of existence each
and every one of us will receive that which belongs to us—and
in every case it will prove to be that which we have been ear-
nestly seeking. There is no need for haste or anxiety as to
attainment. Your destiny awaits you. Indeed, you are weaving
its pattern and design in every thought you think and every mo­
tion you make. Such are the mechanics of the “Ever-becoming
of Mind.”
Much has been written on the Evolution of Man, but factually
126
Man did not attain his present state by the laws of what your
scientists on this subject called evolution. It is true, however,
that Man’s form did. Form, or shape is constantly going through
the endless process of change. Change is the only true charac-
teristic of matter; all others pertaining to or seeming to exist
therein are but attributes of the observer placed there by his
sensory perceptions.
The false perceptions acquired by Man in his efforts to arrive
at some understandable relation between himself and the world
of matter he exists in, have been brought about by nothing more
serious than faulty observation. Now, if this is truly the crux of
the Situation there will be some who will insist on considering
it an entirely hopeless one, holding that Man has been connected
with the Earth in one way or another far too long a time to en-
able him to rectify the condition at this late date.
This, however, is not true, for—as any scientific individual
worthy of being called scientist (a term that means “truth-seeker”)
will teil you—the entire history of Man and his world is indelibly
marked upon the Earth, and no amount of the passage of time
shall ever erase it to the point of oblivion.
However, Man has, among his many other characteristics, a
very dynamic force, called “purpose.” He must have this in every-
thing he does. I am well aware of the sneers that may meet this
Statement from those who consider themselves intellectuals of the
modern brand, but if we are to gain wisdom, we must diligently
avoid pessimism for it has no place in truth-seeking.
Back of every act committed by Man, then, lies the dynamic
force of purpose. Naturally, the purpose of any given act of an
individual is not always apparent to another—and more, it is not
by any means necessary that it should. Indeed, the real reasons
back of his acts are seldom known consciously by the individual
himself. Nevertheless, the I-consciousness knows in every detail
not only the purpose but what the net results will be in reactions.
If we assume this to be true, then it would seem that the I-con­
sciousness is not Itself seeking knowledge through the body for
Its own advancement, but rather for the sake of Its physical seif.
For, in so educating the physical seif, there will come a time when
this physical seif will so understand its physical environment and
its causation that it will automatically know and do the things
127
that are in harmony with It, and in that way relieve itself of a
great amount of stresses that are highly irritating to the I-Self.
The natural state of the I-Self we may, for the want of a better
term, call the State of Bliss, but It cannot stay in that state of
completeness as long as the physical seif, in its blind ignorance,
keeps nagging It into becoming consciously aware of the three-
dimensional world by destructive thinking and acting.
Now let us take what may seem a sudden departure from the
topic of mind-and-body and go into what is believed to be the
“outer” world, the world of time, space and matter. I am sure
that as we pursue this path of learning we will see the great illu­
sion of it all—that it is made up of “such stuft as dreams are
made of.”
It is said that there- are two types of matter—namely, organic
and inorganic. The inorganic is largely considered as inanimate,
the organic as animate. And yet, organic matter is constantly going
through the process of becoming inorganic and vice versa. So we
reason, if there is this sort of interchange going on between or­
ganic and inorganic matter, they are not actually two different
things but are one and the same. “Organic” merely means that
which has organs or channels through which it carries on its par­
ticular functions.
Physical man is made up of the same structural units as is all
living form—and that substance is called protoplasm with a nu­
cleus. Some of these protoplasmic masses are extremely compli-
cated, and some simplified to such a low scale as to be without a
nucleus. But, low or high, complicated or simple, they are all
equally important to what is called life on the physical plane.
All living things are in a process called growth. As for our
Classification of them by name—such as “plant” or “animal,” “fish”
or “fowl”—it is merely for the sake of convenience, that is all.
There are numerous plants that have many of the characteristics
of what we call “animals,” “plants”—and so on, up and down the
scale of life. I think it hardly need be added that there are many
“humans” who have almost all of the attributes of the lowest and
most savage of beasts or crawling things of the world’s jungles.
So, let us not be fooled by human form into believing we are
necessarily seeing a human being. The true nature of a thing
always will be found in its actions not in its form.
128
In the evolution of physical man, much stress is attached to
the theorythat man’s form was once uncouth and animalistic and
that the form of man today is much more refined, and therefore
more desirable. Desirable—yes, but only from the point of vanity.
As for usefulness, one cannot imagine a man of today waking up
suddenly and Unding himself, with his smooth, soft and hairless
body, in the kind of environment in which the Neanderthal Man
lived, or any of the still older races of man.
There is really no comparison to be made, as regards the
worthiness of things, between one generation and another; for, if
we will but stop and think for a moment, it will be quite obvious
to us that all things spring into physical manifestation as needed,
following the Law of Environment and the need created in that
environment.
We are, of course, wrong if we suppose that all so-called pre-
historic man had an apelike appearance—such as low, slanting
foreheads, flat noses, and hairy bodies. There is really no complete
history of Man, as any honest student of anthropology will attest,
so it is clear enough that there exists not only one but many miss-
ing links in Man’s historical chain.
This Earth has been racked and torn by the most violent
quakes and storms, and many great civilizations lie hidden under
thousands of tons of earth and water. Some of these civilizations
will be found in the course of time and it will be, I suppose, a
rather shocking thing to discover them to be not hundreds, not
thousands, but millions of years old.
Elowever, we will find that every civilization is but a product
of its time. All life works in perfectly harmonious rhythm, and in
that rhythm things are made manifest, or are caused to do what
is called “come into being.” But this coming into and going out
of being takes place with the same kind of rhythmic perfection on
all planes of consciousness, each receiving according to its nature.
This rhythm that is everywhere present appears a note and then
a pause. In occult phraseology it is sometimes referred to as “the
Breath of Brahma,” and your Christian mystic thinks of it as the
breath of God which is approximately the same thing. Physiol-
ogists see it as the life-and-death act. But, whatever the termin-
ology, when we come to understand this form of action we will
see how very beautiful it is and that life of any kind would be
129
impossible without it.
Now, while it is true that there could be no existence without
what is called rhythm, I must add this—that existence does not
hang by one thread but rather on endless threads; and to sever
any one of these may mean a rupture of all of them, thereby bring-
ing an “end to life.” Let us, for instance, try removing these three
elements—carbonic acid, water and ammonia. These three Chemi­
cal compositions are the mainstays of all plant life. The plants
extract them from the earth and with the aid of certain very short
rays from the sun, turn them into living matter. So, the removal
of them would again mean the cessation of all physical life.
To speak of a thing having life does not necessarily imply that
it is .se/f-conscious. A rosebush, for instance, has no awareness
of itself as a rose, nor does an ant know itself as an ant, nor a dog
as a dog; but all living things do have an awareness of performed
action and the necessity to perform such action, each thing ac-
cording to its own nature.
Now, my dear Seeker of the Light, what 1 am about to say
next in regard to consciousness and man you must read slowly
several times, and then think upon it; otherwise, you may not
fully grasp the significance of the idea I am trying to convey.
Let us begin by stating that the subject of Consciousness is a
vast one. So vast is it, in fact, that almost anything anyone may
have to say about it may be true at least in part. Undoubtedly
this Statement is also true to a degree of all subjects. The reason
for this seems simply to be that truth in absolute form has no
abiding-place in the realm of what is called “existence.” The
reader will please take note here that I did not say “in Man’s
existence,” the word “Man’s” would have immediately classified
him as something separate and apart from many other States or
forms of existence; or, at least, it would imply one other state of
existence as something distinctly separate from Man.
While it is not my wish to be tiresome with a subject, I often
find it necessary to return to a particular idea in that subject to
pick up some loose ends, in order to make the subject as a whole
more clear and comprehensible to the reader. So now I go back
to the idea that life is also imbued with the self-awareness state.
You will remember that I mentioned the thought that a rosebush
130
is not aware that it is a rosebush, nor does an ant know itself as
an ant, nor a dog as a dog—but that, rather, all these forms of
life are aware only of action and the necessity of such action.
Let us stop here and dwell upon the foregoing paragraph and
then ask ourselves if man is really in any better position to know
himself than is anything eise. First, let us take the aforementioned
rosebush, or any other plant you may choose, and a human being.
The first thing we observe about these two seemingly different life
forms is that they are both composed of what is called matter, and
by closer examination it becomes clear to us that the matter of
which both structures are built is protoplasmic or cellular and
that therefore both are but growths.
Perhaps the next thing we take note of is that man and rose­
bush alike must breathe oxygen in Order to live; both need what
is called food to sustain them; both throw off waste matter; both
carry on a general struggle to survive as long as they can, but
eventually both forms return to the earth that gave them birth.
While we agree that both man and the rosebush perform in a
similar mannet and are similar in construction we are aware that
each carries out the same functions in a vastly different männer.
Some of us may be inclined to think that the rosebush does not
move around, but, after its own nature, it does no less moving
around than does a human being. It also has a nervous system
through which it reflects its likes and dislikes.
There are many more comparisons to be made between man
and plant life and all other things with what is called the “life-
force” in them, but those mentioned will be sufficient for the pur­
pose. And the purpose is to point out the possibility that the
individual human being has no greater state of seZ/-awareness than
has any other thing; that he too is aware only of certain forms of
action that he must go through, and that is all.
More often than not, in writing or speaking of life in an occult
way, we run into semantic difficulties. The teacher suddenly finds
that he has quite unintentionally smothered both his pupil and
himself in a maze of words. When this happens, if the teacher is
not really sincere, he is likely to cast the blame on the pupil by
merely saying, “You are not yet far enough advanced to under­
stand.” But the sincere teacher is the patient teacher. He knows
that the mistake was his own and calmly sets about to rectify the
131
Situation. However, if we permit ourselves to become too tech-
nical in regard to the precise meaning of a word, we will never
learn anything, not even the precise meaning to anything other
than that which you find in it. To be a little humorous about it,
I would say, “To explain an explanation does not make the ex-
planation any better than the explanation that was explained.”
In our studies of life we should always endeavor to find and
take the simplest access to all things. The complexities that so
often confront us in our problems, as a rule, rise out of our ego-
tistical desire to ignore the simple and the small as being be-
neath our attention. There is no such thing as a homogeneous
problem; all problems and all things are made up of small parts.
This book, as you know, is made up of small chapters. No one
of us has written more on a given subject than we thought was
necessary to stir the individual reader into thinking along that line
and then leaving him to draw his own conclusions not only on what
was said but by what he may feel was left unsaid. As a result,
wherever a chapter may seem incomplete, the reader will himself
extend or complete it by the simple process of mentally adding
what he would have said or left unsaid. Complete understanding
of a thing brings on the desire to sleep in the presence of it.
After the above short interlude from our main topic we must
once again return to it, if for no greater reason than to work
towards the completion of this chapter.
As a boy of fifteen I went with my father on a trip to India.
My father was a dealer in rare oriental antiques and while the
trip was a business one for him he took me along, as he proudly
put it, to let me see for myself how low and degraded India had
allowed her people to become. He was one hundred percent Jap­
anese and spent much time in impressing upon me the superiority
of Japanese culture over all other people’s in the world.
I must confess that all my father had said in the past about
other races and their lowness of culture in comparison to our own,
faded in significance to what met my young and innocent eyes as
we toured the sweltering streets of certain sections of Bombay. I
remember that I was shocked speechless at the utter filth and
poverty that confronted us on all sides. Mangy dogs, gaunt ill-
tempered cats, horses, chickens, oxen and vermin infested monkeys,
all roamed the streets along with the human populace.
132
My father told me, with what may have been sarcasm, that no
one was allowed to kill anything, except perhaps one of them­
selves—which they did in occasional Street fights. If an animal feil
over dead in the streets, it had little chance to breathe its last
before dozens of vultures were fighting furiously over the remains.
And amid all this stench of hopeless poverty and din would be
sitting fat or emaciated unwashed fakirs, or so-called “holy men,”
their hair, if they had any, plastered with cow-dung, and their
expressionless faces smeared with ashes.
“What are these men doing?” I asked my father, nodding my
head towards two very fat “holy men” who sat like carved statues
staring intently at their midriffs.
“Contemplating on their navels,” my father replied.
“Why the navel?” I asked in increasing fascination.
“They believe it aids them in losing their own individual con­
sciousness and becoming one with what is called the Universal
Consciousness, or God.”
Years later, and after I had completed my medical studies at
the Tokyo University, I went back to India, to Calcutta, to serve
my internship at an English hospital. I could have served my
period of internship at any one of the hospitals in Tokyo, but my
youthful experience in India had so deeply impressed me that in
the following fourteen years which it took me to grow up and get
my medical degrees, I was, figuratively speaking, haunted by India
and the things I had seen there.
Of course it may seem odd to many that while the conditions
of India held my attention in a very disturbing way, I seemed
blind to the evil conditions in my own country of which there were
many. But is this not always the case? When we know not the
truths of life we are blind to our own faults or to the faults of our
loved ones, as well as those of our country. It is always someone
eise that is wrong and in our blind egotism we try setting ourselves
up as world savers.
I spent ten years in India. I studied this ancient country from
many sides; its material and spiritual problems as well as its topo-
graphical layout and also its climatic conditions. Now, what
were my conclusions about India at the end of my ten years?
Exactly the same conclusions as those to which I came concerning
133
the many other countries that I visited all over the world in the
following years—and here I sum them up:
1. The desire to stick by tradition as a way of life. This belief
is imbedded so deeply in all races of the earth that it is
impossible to uproot it to any noticeable degree, regardless
of the fact that it is the very hinge upon which swing with
monotonous precision most of the evils of every race. Tra­
dition means changelessness of things. Is it not said that
“A motionless pool soon stagnates?” So tradition has
brought Stagnation among the peoples of the earth.
2. Religious beliefs—which of course swing very lustily on
the rusty hinges of tradition. All beliefs concerning the
soul of man engender a completely insurmountable barrier
as far as man en mässe is concerned. It is called “dass.”
This belief is probably one of the most brutal that man has
wished upon himself, inasmuch as it is so far-reaching in
its results. It might not be such a dirty evil were it not
for the fact that it does not merely crush the physical as-
pirations of all it touches, but penetrates deep into the
mind and psyche, making living zombies of its victims. In
short, it destroys the normal functions of mind called
“ever-becoming,” by disruption of the thought patterns of
the individual; for it denies his right to expand his field of
thought outside the realm of the caste to which he feil heir
by birth.
3. The enslavement of the female—both body and soul—by
the male. I found this horrible condition existing to one
degree or another in almost every race upon earth. Out
of what cesspool of arrogant and wilful blindness to life’s
purpose did this come? The answer is simple enough if
we will take the trouble to examine it in a detached way.
It is but the by-product of the fermentation of fear and
the sense of insecurity in the male, its origin in time dating
back to shortly after the Separation of the sexes.
Your Christian Bible speaks of this Separation wherein it says:
“And God took a rib from Adam and made Eve.” Practically all
holy books teil of man being androgynous, or having both male
and female Organs in one body, and like the Christian Bible, they
too speak of this Separation.
134
Naturally, this Separation did not take place overnight. It took
place like all eise, by degrees, by the law you know today as
modification, over a period of many thousands of years. However,
as slow as the change may have been, it nonetheless was one of
the most drastic of all the changes suffered by man. It created a
very bitter feeling of rebellion within him and as time went on and
he learned there was nothing he could do to stop this change, his
feeling of rebellion turned to one of agonized frustration and fear-
ridden despair that seeped slowly and steadily into his very heart
and soul where it formed a cesspool of lust and hatred for the very
thing it loved so deeply.
It was in this entirely mad state that Man cast out or lost all
belief in his own Godness and turned to worshiping the elemental
gods of fire, air, water and earth. The heads of each tribe, being
versed in the use of magical laws, would gather around in groups
of twelve to a hundred and seven males that had been taken from
their mothers at the end of the weaning period and trained in the
art of magical rites.
Seeking seclusion from the rest of the tribe, they would form a
circle, a square, or a triangle—according to the results desired,
and which one of the gods of the elemental kingdoms they were
seeking to consult. Then the entire group, at the direction of its
leader, would start intoning certain words. Each of the members
was given a particular octave so that the intoning of the mantrams
was done in perfect harmony and unison.
In the course of a short time a misty, shapeless mass would ap-
pear in the center of the group, but as the chanting went on and
the tones became more plaintive and seductive in quality, the more
form and strength were added to the misty substance, until sud-
denly the whole mass would flare into three-dimensional being,
and, to the untrained eye it would be horrifying to behold. As a
rule it required all the concentrated efforts of the entire group of
initiates to hold these elemental beings in their power and keep
them from escaping the confines of the circle.
Now, none of these beings of the elemental worlds can harm
Man, nor indeed, do they wish to do so; but when they are con-
sciously called into Man’s state of awareness and streams of the
creational energies of human kind are poured out to them, they
absorb these energies and incorporate them into their bodies and
135
minds, thereby taking on considerable humanlike qualities. Their
however, would be no higher than that of the most in­
telligent of the group.
In the beginning the practice of calling upon the elemental
worlds was done specifically for the purpose of Consulting them on
general weather conditions and to make a plea for protection of
crops and safety of the tribe from storms and fire.
Some of you, my friends, may be strongly inclined to feel quite
sure, due to your having been conditioned in the orthodox way
of thinking, that the story of Man’s communication with the ele-
mentals is but pure Superstition of savages, and if this is what you
actually feel to be the truth, then by all means continue in that
belief, for it really does not matter. The possibility that any of
you, in this highly scientific world of today, will be holding such
circles is very remote indeed. However, those of you who sit in
what are called spiritualistic circles, where the medium produces
what you call materializations of your relatives and friends who
have passed into the astral life, will have a better understanding
concerning the possibility of communication with the elemental
kingdoms.
Extremely few, if any, of your spiritualistic mediums know any­
thing about mantrams and their uses. Nevertheless, the singing of
songs is a form of mantram chanting, or intoning of words done
for the purpose of calling the attention of discarnate beings to
your three-dimensional world and holding their awareness state
so you can converse with them.
A great deal has been said by some of the other members of
the “Inner Circle” in these writings concerning sound, and so I
will not go into that particular aspect of the magical powers of
words when intoned repeatedly in certain octaves. I will, however,
say this: If an individual knew the proper harmonical note and
was capable of sounding it in one manner or another, that one
would be in possession of the key to both the visible and invisible
worlds. He would be able, at a moment’s notice, to call into
being all forms and shapes that ever existed, and to destroy or
vanquish them, as well as make contact with any and all States of
consciousness that ever knew physical life and those that have not,
as yet, done so.
Now, let us get back to what I said previously—that in almost
136
all cases where the ancients formed circles to conjure up beings
from the elemental worlds, these beings had no greater mentality
that that of the most intelligent of the human beings in the circle.
This also is true wherever and whenever either gods, devils, ele-
mentals or ordinary discarnate beings of the human kind have been
conjured up under such circumstances or similar ones.
There is one thing more that it is well to remember—that none
of the above-mentioned astral beings can be called into such circles
without a certain amount of mental and physical energy being
drawn from everyone sitting in that circle; and they, in turn, leave
a certain amount of their own vibrations with you. I teil you this
not to frighten you but with the thought in mind that you will see
the inadvisability of being promiscuous in entering unknown spiri-
tualistic circles or other occult groups where magic is being
practiced.
Here too is a thought that it would be well for all investigators
of spirit phenomena to keep in mind; almost all mediums can, with
a little conscious effort cause any discarnate being working through
their mental and physical channels to say the things which the
medium may, for one reason or another, desire them to say.
Possibly the great majority of mediumistic people do not them-
selves know this. It can, and often does work with no seemingly
conscious knowledge on the part of the acting medium. If we try
to understand this rather disconcerting activity of the mind during
psychic demonstrations, we will be less inclined to come to any
sudden conclusions concerning the honesty of the medium.
With all the efforts of both ancient and modern Sciences to
dissect the human mind to see what makes it tick, you are but little
better off today than were the ancients, as far as having any true
understanding of the nature of the human mind. For no two of
your alleged authorities wholly agree with one another on any
particular point.
As true as this may be, there does exist certain types of mental
phenomena that create such outer actions as to cause the scientific
investigator to draw set conclusions concerning them, should these
actions show continuance in their nature. And I am sure that both
the serious minded scientist and the metaphysician have had it
demonstrated often enough that a medium can and often does
influence the conversation and actions of the discarnate being
137
working through him. But, whether done consciously or uncon-
sciously, this does not necessarily mean that the medium is a
fraud or that the phenomena as a whole does not exist.
My main purpose in telling you all this is to show you how
some of the ancient as well as modern mediums, or dealers in
occult magic, have it in their power to bring ignorance and slavery
to the masses. And whether this is done intentionally or not does
not lessen the wrongfulness of it.
Some of the ancient schools of occultism dealt in black magic
and could with little effort cause the beings they called up with
magical rites to say the things they wished to have said, thus
enhancing their position as rulers over the people. To question
the authority of the witch-doctor, medicine man or existing God,
and the offender was subject to imprisonment, torture and death.
Every civilization throughout the history of man on Earth has,
to a greater or less degree, been under the domination of the
priestcraft, and their rule has never been anything but cruel and
tyrannical.
In the last twenty years of my Earth life, I suddenly realized that
my academic knowledge of medicine and anatomy, while aiding
me in making an excellent livelihood, was at the same time acting
as a barrier to my most desired aim from childhood—and that was
to study the life of man. This craving to understand myself in
relation to the Universe was tainted with no greater ambition than
to acquire satisfactory proof for my belief, as a man of science,
that life was merely a reactionary force of matter and therefore
was entirely meaningless.
One of my earliest discoveries as a medical student was that
the entire world was one gigantic hospital and all men were but
patients waiting to be cured from the dreadful disease called life,
the original and only real ailment, all eise being but branches, or
tributaries, or reactions. Other living as well as inanimate things
I thought of as being hallucinations due to the progressive infec-
tion of this disease, and I could see quite clearly that the only
satisfactory and permanent eure was death.
This bit of somewhat humorous reasoning, while not entirely
without its merits, was spawned from a nineteen-year-old mind
which had not yet recovered from witnessing the unspeakable
138
poverty and depravity in the streets of India at the impressionable
age of fifteen. Age somehow, perhaps in remembering, tends to
excuse the follies of youth.
And so, at the age of fifty, having concluded that the doping
of wrecked bodies with drugs and patching them up with needle
and thread was not my desired destiny, I put away the toys with
which I had played surgeon and threw out the seemingly endless
supply of bottles containing sugar and flour pills, along with a fine
collection of other witches’ brews that kept the hypochondriac
from dying from one of his many psychosomatic diseases and
seemed, surprisingly enough, to restore health to the actually ill,
for a time at least.
In my twenty years as a practicing physician, I never knew
why certain individuals suddenly died when the closest and most
scientific study of their brains and bodies failed to disclose any­
thing to cause death, while others suffering from frightful diseases,
proclaimed by medical science to be incurable, or with bodies
mangled in violent accidents, not only continued to live, but very
often recuperated completely, leaving little or no signs of the ordeal
they had been through.
It occurred to me that if the amount of knowledge I had ac-
quired concerning the “body man” through thirty years of concen-
trated study was so insignificant there might be scant chance that
I could learn about Soul- or Mind-man in the small span of years
still left me—especially since I had had no belief, up to that time
that such things as a soul existed apart from the physical functions
of an organism. All studies from a strictly scientific viewpoint un-
questionably showed that living forms of all kinds originated from
the combining of certain Chemicals—such as oxygen and hydro-
gen, nitrogen and carbon—the latter seeming to be the base of
all life.
Why these elements should make or cause self-activated life to
come into being is a complete mystery; and more—how this life,
once started, evolved into what is called self-consciousness is as
great a mystery .
We may say that all is “Mind,” but the question arises,
“Whose mind?” If you say “MY mind,” the question will arise,
“What is ‘my’ mind?”
139
Provided there is such a condition, thing, or point in space as
“my mind,” it cannot be an absolute, and if not an absolute, then
it must be made up of parts; and if made up of parts, it must be
in some form of motion; and if it is in motion, it must have a body
to move in. If this is so, what is the nature of such a body?
Let us then say that this which is called “my mind” is a field
of action that is brought about by what is called the physical senses
of “my body” reacting to what is called outer Stimuli. The senses
being able to register only motion, “my mind” is automatically
barred from knowing the nature of the thing in itself.
As an instance, let us take plain table salt, which is made up
of two elements, sodium and chlorine. Each of these two by itself
acts as poison on the body; combined they make the palatable
substance called salt, which when taken orally, gives what is called
a salty taste. But what is it that tastes “salty?” Does sodium ap-
plied to chlorine cause chlorine to taste “salty;” or is it chlorine
that makes sodium taste “salty?” And what is the nature of a
“salty” taste?
It appears that the motion of the molecular structure of these
combined Chemicals excites the molecular structure of the taste-
buds, causing them to vibrate in a particular männer. This Vibra­
tion then travels to certain cells in the brain that register it as a
salty taste.
However this may be, we cannot suppose that this is more
than a personal opinion on the subject, and in that light is not to
be considered as an answer to the question for there are too many
other points to consider. I do not believe that we can logically
assume that the properties of salt contain within them a secondary
something called “a salty taste,” nor can we be satisfied with my
Statement that the molecular structure pressures of salt on the
molecular structure of the taste-buds is the whole answer to the
nature of a salty taste for we will see the impossibility of this when
we realize how susceptible all the senses of the body are to the
law of Suggestion.
It is a known but certainly not a very understandable phe-
nomena in the field of hypnosis that one under a hypnotic state
can “taste” the substance which the hypnotiser or controlling agent
is tasting but this is true not only of the sense of taste but all the
other senses of the body.
140
We may call this transference of Stimuli from one individual
to another “sensing by induction,” and if that is true, it would
seem to rule out the idea of pressure contact by what is called
“molecules in motion” on the nervous system as not being the true
state of things in regard to man’s ability to come in contact with
his outside world, but perhaps this is only partly so.
Even after many years of study along these lines, and from
both sides of “the veil,” I am not going to pretend that I can give
the answer to the question “What is consciousness in respect to
matter?”—or vice versa, but I can teil you this—that it appears to
me that that part of the human being called “the Self” is and must
of necessity be an unknowable quantity. It always abides in a body
of one kind or another, the nature of such bodies depending largely
on what It is seeking to experience. I would like to add here that
on no other plane of consciousness but that of the Earth does the
mind-self lose a body. The loss of a body in which death is the
cause is a waste of highly concentrated mind-energy, and complete
mastery means to be able to have absolute control over the entire
organism so that one can change the rate of its atomic particles.
When one is able to do this one need never go through the kind of
death that sooner or later overtakes all things in the physical-
chemical world. When a human being suffers this kind of death, it
means that his soul, or spirit, or psyche must enter one of the
astral planes and stay there for a period of time and then return
to Earth to try again, whereas a Master is a free agent, and can go
and come when and where he pleases throughout the entire scheme
of things.
Now let us go back to the problem of consciousness via matter.
Life itself is a light wave, its nature being—as far as I can learn—
electromagnetic and, as I said, must have a body of a kind to work
in; and this body must be so constructed that it will have sense
channels so that the life in it may know what is going on in what-
ever plane it may be functioning in.
It is believed by some that that which is called matter is some­
thing in motion but that this “something” has no such properties
as color, odor or taste—or, for that matter, what is called sound—
but that there are attributes or characteristics given this “some­
thing” by the individual through the sense channels.
Many of my colleagues also think that this is so, and I would
141
like to believe this to be the case, even if for no greater reason
than so I could forget the subject and turn my attention to some-
thing eise. But I cannot rationally do this, for no matter what one
turns his attention to, he is always faced with the question “What
is it?” So I am not completely content with the thought that the
only reality is motion and that all eise is but properties of the
senses in their effort to measure motion.
I am told that you have a machine of delicate design that can
register matter and that it bars out all eise but motion, but that
only teils me that such a machine is geared to do just that, so that
is all it gets. Is it not probable that that which is sensed as mo­
tion is also only a property of the senses? If this is true, then all
of what we term as existence is nothing more than a fanciful dream
of which a nameless something is the dreamer, but of the nature
of this dreamer nothing can be said.
If the nature of a thing can be discerned by its action and
what is termed the body seif can actually comprehend such action,
then I would say that this great unknowable Self may be at times
giving us a small hint of its immensity when we experience such
phenomena as telepathy, clairvoyance, telekinesis, and the healing
of the sick at great or small distances, and sundry actions of a like
nature. If such experiences teil us nothing eise, they should, it
would seem, make it quite apparent that this Self is not at all
dependent on a physical carriage of its existence.
The mechanism called “memory” is a very complex one and
all existence hinges on it. Practically everything possesses this
faculty to one degree or another, the human species having de-
veloped it to such an advanced state as to make Man king and
master over all the earth. This gift—although it can hardly be
called that, for Man came by it only after many millions of years
of a variety of experiences—is a two-edged sword, for while noth­
ing can be learned without it, once learned it can never be entirely
erased.
We could say, looking at it from a purely materialistic view,
that by destroying certain cells of the brain, or by producing cer-
tain radical changes in the metabolic processes of the body, an
individual could be rendered incapable of remembering from one
moment to the next. Nevertheless, it has been shown by experi-
mentation that if the attention of one who is suffering from such
142
impairment of the memory cells, or changes in the Chemical Out­
put of the glands can be captured and held by a hypnotist, he can
be made to teil of a happening—and more, to recite it in full
detail, which is even better than the vast majority can do in what
is called the normal state of consciousness.
We may—and with some justification because of past beliefs—
feel that a person under hypnotic control is not working intelli-
gently, but is a kind of robot or automaton whose actions and
words in no way belong to him, but to the controlling agent. This
however, is far from being the case.
In all forms of hypnosis, from the lightest to the heaviest, and
whether self-induced or induced by another, we will find that its
action is the blocking of the physical channels or senses in one
degree or another, so that the body cannot register certain forms
of outer Stimuli and convey them to the psyche or mental seif.
In my studies of this phenomenon, it has become quite ap-
parent to me that if what is called individual consciousness were
a something localized in a body and if it were merely the by-
product of protoplasmic action, then it could not be disassociated
from the body and would cease to be when the body ceased to
function.
Consciousness is in everything, and is therefore everywhere
present and this fact has been adequately demonstrated often
enough so that there is no real need for me to go into further de­
tail concerning it. If the Student of life is sincere in his efforts
there are many ways by which he can discover these facts for
himself.
I think it is sufficient to say that in most forms of hypnosis
wherein the subject is told to travel, or that he feels no pain, it is
but the feeling or dehypnotizing of the consciousness out of the
hypnotic belief that it is a “body” of Chemicals.
As there is actually no such thing as place and time, it is a
simple matter, with the proper use of suggestions, to cause one to
shift his state of awareness by intensifying the illusionary belief in
such conditions.
One’s mind is constantly creating and destroying “form” by
Suggestion. If it lacked this Creative and destructive quality in
143
itself, no outer Suggestion could penetrate to it. Indeed, there
could be no existence at all.
By pre-supposing one condition, we automatically pre-suppose
a series of conditions. The nature of a mistake lies not in the
thing or condition created but in its place-time usefulness. In
other dimensions of mind, which we call “place-time” for instance,
such things as three-eyed people were in the majority, and when
the usefulness of three eyes had almost run its course, human
beings with two eyes began to appear; and not being able to see
behind the surface action of life, the three-eyed beings considered
these new experimentations of Mind as freaks, and looked at them
with awe, just as you would look at a two-headed cow, or “siamese
twins,” and dwarfs and midgets.
There are many malformations to be found in all männer of
living things which we may emotionally classify as monstrosities
but if we will look upon them in a detached way, we will find
even these seem to be only relatively monstrous. Many of these
malformations in human beings are not due to a physical condition
of the parent, or any of the ancestors of that family but are caused
by the incoming entity itself in its not knowing how to form cer­
tain stress lines in building its body. Very often the mother’s
mental condition can aid, however, in preventing the entity from
fashioning its body into a healthy, normal structure.
Constant undue anger, or consistent worry, or extreme fright
can penetrate into the mental world of the foetus and shatter the
entity’s profound state of concentration, which is essential to it for
building its physical vehicle. To be thus disturbed reacts upon the
entity in very much the same männer as if one were jolted con-
stantly while trying to sleep when very tired. It creates lines of
irritation, the nature of which will bring about all kinds of con­
genital ailments and psychic aberrations which will later show
themselves as frustrations and inhibitions if not some kind of mal-
formation in the body itself.
It is practically impossible to make the Western world realize
that the physical body is every bit as much a mental body as is that
which is called the spirit, soul, or psychic body. Many of the
Asiatic schools of philosophy also do not seem to realize this, or,
if so, they do not always teach it.
To put the physical body through senseless tortures as the
144
Hindu fakir does, with the hope that it will give his soul a better
chance of happiness in “Nirvana,” not only demonstrates a lack of
complete knowledge of the inner life but it helps to perpetuate the
all-around wrong education in the art of physical existence that
has been foisted upon the people of India by those in power. Such
teachings have been instigated by the same reason as that which
led the Christian hierarchy to teach the Western layman that God
loves the poor and that “It is easier for a camel to go through the
eye of a needle than for a rieh man to enter the gates of heaven.”
Poverty, wherever found, breeds nothing greater than filth,
Superstition and fears, and to stay poverty stricken is to deny the
great bountifulness of Love or God, if you prefer—and the forcing
of the body to abstain from its natural functions is deliberately
destroying the temple of the Living God, for which we will have
to pay in time. A baby’s body should be given the utmost care
by the mother; as the years go on, the child should be taught to
carry on where the mother leaves off, so that in due course the
mind of that child will have complete control over its physical seif.
Fundamentally speaking, there is no reason for death of the
physical body. The cells of the body are constantly renewing them­
selves, and with a well balanced diet and proper exercise and rest,
it would appear that the body could be kept alive and in good
functioning order indefinitely. However, if the mind is not trained
to accept the various experiences of the body with a healthy state
of calm detachment, lines of tension will be created in it that will
act as toxins act on the physical body and this will bring about a
break in the rhythmic function of the glandular system, so that the
body after a time will not be creating new cells to the ratio of the
ones destroyed, which will mean decay and death, regardless of the
material care you may give it.
So, we find wherever we may turn in the Evolution of Form
and the Ever-Becoming of Mind that there is no separating of the
parts from the whole. All works best through esprit de corps.
145
PROFESSOR ALFRED LUNTZ
This personality was born in 1812 and died in 1893. He was a
clergyman for the High Episcopal Church of England. He was of
English and German parentage and was born in North London.
Graduated from the Eton School for Boys at the age of seventeen.
He worked in his father’s law firm in Hanover, Germany, until he
was twenty. Attending Heidelberg where he took a course in
philosophy and comparative religion, then on to Oxford where he
received his Ph.D. in the Episcopal Theological Seminary and
later served a donship. He was a devotee of Queen Victoria. He
was not surprised when he died to discover that he had survived
the grave, but stunned when he realized there was no heaven or
hell as he had so eloquently taught and believed.
146
EARTH'S AGE
and
THE ETHERIANS
Professor Alfred Luntz:
In our making reference to the time continuum in things we
are going to do or which have already done, we must try to re-
member that all knowledge regarding time is but speculative
theory that has arisen out of man’s desire to bring order out of
chaos. He has accomplished this by the use of figures, and any-
thing that takes place within the known history of the world is
recorded as chronological time; but, as man knows so very little
conceming the true history of the earth he lives upon, even in its
segments, how can he know of it in its entirety? Is it not said that
to understand the whole, one must first know the parts?
Now, if this lack of knowledge concerning the history of the
earth in true sequence is admitted—and we are sure it is—then
it is obvious that your effort to place them in that category is also
speculative. It cannot be more than that, for the nature of your
facts is sporadic, with such great gaps between that there is no
tangible basis upon which to weave a continued pattern.
I have mentioned all this merely with the hope of making you
see how futile it would be for me to state the amount of time in
actual years in number form that have elapsed since your earth
and the universes first sprang into being. Even in using the words,
“sprang into being”—the word sprang, like spring, or jump, must
be considered a time word, denoting motion—and motion can only
take place in what you call “time.” Now, were I to say to you
that time is not a separate existing entity, but that it is conscious­
ness—your consciousness—and, as consciousness cannot exist
without what is termed the awareness sense—the state called
awareness cannot exist without something to be aware of. As to
the nature of consciousness, it is incessant creating, with the illu­
sion of projection that lends each one of us the belief that some­
thing in action is taking place outside of ourselves in the field of
what is called time and space.
147
We of the “Inner Circle” are quite aware of the world belief
in what are called concrete scientific facts—especially where the
Western mind is concerned, and being so aware, I will state a time
that you may consider as the age of your material earth—with
the hope that you will remember that the figures were arrived at
only after much exhaustive research work in many fields of so-
called material science: It is three and a quarter billion years old.
This is dating only from the time of its solidification and has noth­
ing to do with its period of conception in the astral womb in the
form of atomic whirls, or stresses, and the vast Stretches of time
that followed that, when it was a churning cauldron of liquid fire.
For a body of the size and nature of the earth to come into a
state that would be capable of producing and sustaining the life
Vibration in its Chemical matter takes approximately seven billion
years in sidereal time.
Now, I wish it to be known that the above figures are Ramon
Natalli’s and were arrived at by his own particular method of
mathematical computation. They are of course tentatively ac-
cepted by all of us of the “Inner Circle,” but this does not mean
that anyone eise should take them at their face value as being the
last possible word in fact.
Let us turn back our minds in what you perceive as time, even
to the world’s beginnings. If you were looking with the physical
eye, you would see nothing but what would appear to you as a
vast endless void; but let us use an eye that is of a higher rate of
Vibration and look again. Now what would you see? A sight so
astounding, so majestic that, were you to see it while in the
physical body and unprepared, you would indeed go stark mad.
For now you are looking into the Etheric World. The size alone
of all in it would stagger your imagination. The vibrating, pul-
sating, irridescent colors, teeming with plant life, the animals and
birds; the size and beauty of buildings, libraries, lecture halls,
schools of learning, vast cathedrals, giant organs, orchestras con-
sisting of every known instrument on your earth plane and many,
many more that you, as yet, know nothing of—tens of thousands
playing at one time; and the music coming from them would make
you want to weep your life away with its power and sweetness of
tone and perfect harmony; men and women of great height and
148
stature, perfect of body and mind, going about in flowing robes of
brilliant colors—some with mighty heads of golden hair, red hair
and black hair flowing down their backs in living, gleaming waves,
and rieh, flowing beards that look like fine-spun silk; stately women
with skin like living satin and glowing with health.
The air you would breathe would be purer than a babe’s
breath, for the air in this world is not particulate, as your scientists
feel they know that word. Things do not move around in the män­
ner that one may call directional motion, but by Vibration motion
only. Perhaps I may make such a condition a bit more clear by
saying, “Being that in essence all forces are really one force,
when a thing or person wishes to move, the wish automatically
merges the energy force of that thing or person into the thing it
or he desires to move to; in other words, it is the motion of the
neutron and the proton—a complete exchange of energies, one
thing becoming the other thing.
It is only when coming down into the lower etheric that one
begins to run into the first stages of particulate substances or
directional motion. In the physical, in order for one substance to
become something eise, there is a change or a rearrangement of
the atomic pattern. This is the beginning of what I call directional
motion. It is at a period slightly before directional motion that
physical man has, for the most part, lost his ability to control
substance with mental energy and must of necessity revert to his
hands—the hands being extensions of the mind.
Note that I say “for the most part” and not completely, for it is
a known fact that there are in India, even in your time, men who
have so mastered themselves that they can cause flowers and other
plants to grow and blossom right before your eyes. Notice the
method employed by these men to accomplish this: a complete
trance state. And why a trance state? Simply that they may be­
come the plant. By that I mean their mind substance may enter
into the mind substance of the plant seed. Perhaps it would be
clearer to you if I explained it thusly: when you, my friend, go
into trance so that we may use your physical body, you are in
reality becoming the one who appears to talk through you.
Trance, normal sleep and so-called death all are merging of
the personality of the individual with the Universal Force, or
149
Cosmic Mind—the States being relative. All forms of life have
their being in this great sea of intelligence.
You can liken the physical world to a mirror, inasmuch as it
is the reflection of the Real and Everlasting Consciousness working
through Man.
Düring many years of my earth-life I learned, and later taught,
that this Everlasting Consciousness which I then called GOD and
thought of as an individual Being was quite capable and always
willing to punish or reward people. Now let me point out some­
thing here that would be well to consider. Suppose, for instance,
you were to go to sleep some night and waken in a dream world,
and there you would see many people doing all manner-of things
—some good deeds and some bad, as you understand those abstract
terms. Now, for the most part, all the people in your dream are
your children—you created them, and most of them are doing
exactly as you wish them to do, even though you may not be
consciously aware of the fact. Now, do you, or would you, feel
justified in sentencing them to an everlasting hell or a perpetual
heaven for what they are doing? And even if you feit justified in
so desiring, just how do you suppose you could carry out your
wish? Mankind is in the same position to God, or God to man.
The only thing you could do would be to destroy the entire dream
world, and that would mean annihilating the good with the bad;
and even then the only way this could be accomplished would
be by awakening back to your physical world. The Cosmic Mind
not being an individual, God is not likely to awaken from Its
mystic slumber or perpetual sleep, thereby voiding the Great
Dream.
But all that you do or do not do is in the Divine Plan and is
expected of you, for only through your constant doing can you
grow; and as you are the Divine Plan and Planner, both, you can­
not act otherwise. Remember this and you will always be at least
moderately happy.
150
THE HUMAN PERSONALITY
Professor Alfred Luntz:
In its structural nature the human personality is comparable to
the bit of matter called the atom, inasmuch as it is made up of
many parts. And again like the atom, it is of an extremely abstract
nature and therefore not given to measurement by any single
gauge. The personality is a mental and emotional acquired condi-
tion of both the conscious and unconscious seif and, as a whole,
may be considered as a composite of experiences. However, be­
cause an individual is constantly having experiences of one kind
or another and reactions to said experiences, it seems logical to
suppose that the personality is never a whole and fully integrated
thing and is, therefore, always in danger of Splitting and going off
in tangents. If there is any truth in this idea, and I certainly be­
lieve there is, then it is obvious that the entire human race suffers
from schizophrenia to one degree or another. In fact it would be
phenomenal indeed if this condition did not take place in the
human make-up.
We humans may talk all we want about a God or gods and
what He or they have done for us, but the fact remains that we
have come into this seeming place called the world completely
ignorant of our source of origin or what we are to do while here.
And what is more, this hereness state, when we first arrived, was
a wild and barren one, with the elements constantly raging at us
and threatening our existence from all sides. Had we not been
dull and stupid brutes at the time, we would have shortly become
raving maniacs. Starting with only the rawest material, man cre­
ated and produced everything of worth in the world and to do
this he even had to create the ability to think and to reason; in
fact, he had to do the latter first before he could have accom-
plished the former.
It is my opinion that the first real shock to the human con­
sciousness came when man suddenly realized that he was com­
pletely alone in the vastness of creation. If he had had any such
thing as a personality in that period of his existence, the knowledge
that he had absolutely no one to whom he could turn for consola-
151
tion or advice must have not merely split his personality but, I
dare say, shattered it! But man is, and always has shown himself
to be a tremendously resourceful creature, as he has amply demon-
strated throughout the millions of years of his sojourn here, and it
matters little how often his experiences have shocked him, Man
has always refused to remain in a state of shock for any longer
than it took him to realize that there was no one to help him out
of his dilemma but himself. As soon as he realized this he bounced
up again with the resilience of a well-trained acrobat and set about
doing what he came here to do; namely, to create.
Of course man, in that distant period of his existence, could
not really have “realized” the vastness of anything, much less Crea­
tion as such for he just did not have the mental or emotional equip-
ment necessary for that kind of thinking. What he most likely
became aware of, if anything, was his own smallness and terrifying
sense of inadequacy with his immediate environment. Having no
one to whom he could turn for protection from the elements and
other creatures who were so horribly unlike himself, he was liter-
ally driven to create gods in self-defense, and, as always, anything
that man set his Creative mind on doing, he did a real bang-up job
on this one! But as would be expected, man created his gods after
his own image and likeness and because man at that time was
working almost exclusively on his bestial mind, his gods were
naturally cast from the same die. These gods became a necessary
part of man’s existence, following along with him on his long and
rather dreadful struggle up the path of evolution but his gods were
never anything more than he was at any given time.
Judging from surface appearances, we may conclude that man’s
basic nature has changed quite considerably from what it was
when both he and the world were young, but I am afraid our
conclusions would be wrong. While it is true that the basic nature
of some men have changed, this is not a truism where the greater
mass called man is concerned. As evidence shows, we are still
pretty much the same half-human, half-animal, fear-driven crea­
tures we were when we found ourselves leaping from tree to tree
and dodging from cave to cave to escape the wrath of the gods
that we ourselves created with the blind hope that they would offer
a little more security to our hapless existence.
Millions of years of experiences with the so-called outer world
152
have taught us very little inwardly. But this is quite natural, for
external experiences in themselves can teach us nothing—it is our
attitudes toward our feelings, regarding not only the experiences
of the moment but also of the memories of such past experiences
and what our attitudes were to them at that time. Now, while
most of us know all this, very few of us are aware that we are
acquiring our knowledge of the external world through a system
of measurements called the senses and, like all other Systems of
measurement that man possesses, they seldom, if ever, give us a
true and complete picture of things as they actually are. All of
this means that our senses are constantly more or less giving us
false data which leads to our making false concepts, and false
concepts eventually create confusion in us and, when we are
in a state of mental confusion, all of our actions are chaotic
and meaningless. As an example of what I mean as to how
false concepts can lead us into chaotic and meaningless action,
let us go back to where I spoke of early mankind and the
creating of gods where there were no gods. What these people
were seeking was love and understanding, but their inability
to realize this lent them the false concept that what they needed
was something of a supernatural nature and yet something
they could come to grips with when necessary; so they went into
the chaotic and meaningless activity of not only fashioning gods
after their own physical image and likeness which, by modern
Standards of beauty, would have been nothing short of night-
marish, but they also built temples from the blood and sweat of
their fellow men.
Today, man cries out for security just as prehistoric man did.
But the word “secure” means safe, so the question is, just what are
we trying to be safe from? The human consciousness has been
conditioned into the entirely erroneous concept that the material
world is some kind of living entity that has an independent exis-
tence of its own and quite outside of human consciousness, and
yet we are taught to project our consciousness into this alien con­
dition in an elfort to discover what is troubling us. It is hardly to
be wondered at, that, with teachings of this kind, the human per­
sonality has become, as my colleague Martin Lingford puts it, a
Schizophrenie, paranoid ass! It cannot be otherwise when it keeps
looking outside of itself for the cause of its pains or of its joys.
153
The world of the present is in rampant chaos, but it has always
been so since man first became aware of himself as being separate
and apart from the rest of creation. But due to the fact that there
is a far greater number of people on the earth than ever before, the
state of chaos is considerably greater and naturally more wide-
spread. Every nation suffers from an acute sense of self-aggran-
dizement coupled with intense feelings that it is being persecuted
by every other nation. Were these conditions found in an indi­
vidual person, we would believe him insane and therefore a
menace to the rest of us who believe ourselves sane and demand
that he be put away. But how are we to put away a nation when
there is no other place to put it but in the world? Moreover, what
nation possesses such perspicacity as to permit it to be the judge
of the sanity or, perhaps I should say, the degree of insanity of
another nation? While only a comparatively few people know it,
North America was chosen by invisible beings of higher intelli-
gence to be the Cradle of Light, and it was chosen to be such long
before even the red men, later known as Indians, arrived on its
soil. While we members of the Inner Circle know this to be a
fact from having read the records regarding the destiny of the
earth’s nations, you, of course, are not called upon to take our
word for it. However, should you study the wording and männer
in which the Constitution of the United States is written, you may
accept at least the possibility that we are speaking the truth. The
particular records of which I speak exist on a somewhat higher
level of consciousness than most of us enter into right after we
leave the earth, but they also exist in some detail within certain
monasteries in both Tibet and India. That North America was
chosen to be the Cradle of Light certainly does not mean that it is
so as yet, for it is obvious that it suffers from many forms of in­
sanity, both among the people and the government; but North
America is very young still in relation to most other countries of
the world and, so, has time to eure herseif of most of her ailments.
Time, however, moves on, and ailments left unattended soon
become chronic, and then it becomes almost impossible to do
very much about them.
While all of these latter observations may seem to have little
to do direetly with my subject, “The Human Personality,” we will
see that it does when we realize that when we talk about the
154
world, we are talking about man. Were it not for man, the world
would be nothing. But if the human personality continues to
split itself with the myriad of fears and superstitions it brought
along with it from its primeval days, it will eventually lose its
higher Creative mentality and find itself back again in the animal
kingdom.
155
156
Memoriam
There are no words to exchange with one another that can
express really how we feel.
There was a man called Mark whose physical body could no
longer contain the depth of his dream. And so it died.
What doesn’t seem to “go” anywhere, is the Mark we share
. . . laughing, yakking, joking and smoking, recalling the time
that . . . Tm hungry, let’s eat!’ . . . grumbles and bumbles and
mumbles, delight in every single bite of being.
A small package overweight with the adjectives of living—so
tough, but too tender, just the right size for our heart-pockets.
‘Tm late, I’m late, for a very important date;
no time to say ‘hello-goodbye’
I’m late, I’m late, I’m late . . .”
The March Hare in Wonderland—
Through the Looking-Glass.
Mark in February, 1969—
a similar Situation.
However, on a sun-drenched San Diego day this June, there
emerged from a dusty drawer a crumpled and yellowing scrap of
paper. It had been tucked away at 931 26th Street, along with
many other ‘thoughts to be shared some day’ . . .
it is written just this way
157
r
To my dear friends and sincere helpers in the perhaps Strange,
but none-the-less wonderful work of teaching and helping our fel-
low men to find a little more peace in this earth life; and to all
others who have played such a valuable part in furthering this
Service to humanity in a time when it is so desperately needed;
and to all who so kindly invited us into their homes or halls; to
ALL of my fellow men everywhere, I leave my love and devotion
in the name of The Light.
If you would honor me, I ask that you do so in loving one
another. I think we can do this best if we will keep in mind that
no one of us is perfect, but all are constantly striving, consciously
or unconsciously, for that which we call perfection—which in
some of its more complete States is called The Light.
I go now to whatever it may be my need to face—but 1 beg
you not to weep or hold any fear in your hearts for my safety,
for I can assure you, all will be well with me as it also will be
with you when it comes your time to join me.
I am 47 years of age at this writing and of course l may live
another 47 years. I do not know nor do / feel there would be any
advantage in so knowing, for if I’ve read life aright, I am not 47
years of age, but am Time Itself. Nevertheless, I am also aware
that part of this I of me is a physical-chemical body and is there-
fore subject to change. Any one of such changes may mean my
having to depart from it for a time (at least so it is with this thought
in mind that I write all of this).
It is but folly and cowardly to wait till the time of my depart-
ing. It may be that I would get no chance to say how much I
appreciate the hours I lived on this beautiful earth, in spite of the
hell it seemed in my earlier years. Is it not wisely said, “He who
has not seen hell cannot see heaven.” For how then could he
recognize it as such? I have nothing of any importance to say, for
I’ve lang considered that which is thought of as “important,” lies
simply in Being.
I have no regrets in anything I’ve done nor in what / may have
left undone; for it was the doing as well as the not doing that made
158
up my physical life’s experience. So how could / have done other-
wise and still remained “me”?
This is all for now . . .
30 for tonight
(DON’T plant me, cremate me.)
Mark
159
160
I
i
I
i
I
i
There was an idea. It said: man is born in love and is a free
agent; that knowledge is cosmic honey and man should not only
be permitted to gather this honey, but should be aided and abetted
in doing so.
Out of this feeling was born the association of the Inner Circle
Teachers of Light and Mark, earth representative.
A lifetime was spent sowing their seeds in our fields of under-
standing.
In so receiving, we have one more foundation upon which to
build our path to the
Light Within.
For all who wish to share
we continue to become
The Kethra E’Da Foundation
161
