{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1961__anonymous___the_essence_of_our_teachings_church_of_the_golden_rule.pdf","mytitle":"The Essence Of Our Teachings Church Of The Golden Rule","mylang":"de"}
l\tDG'EWOOD 'PA'RK
#I Willits, Califo_rnia 95~90
Do you like to think?
About fun, people, and things!
Especially, do you like to think
ideas?
Goo d! We are gl ad you do ,
Because we like thinking, too.
Thinking is a gift we all inherit
equally;
It is something we each can do
by ourselves, for ourselves.
Our though ts are our ver·y own -
No one can take them from us;
No one can force their thoughts
unon us.
Our gift of thinking 1s our dominion;
A gift - wonderful, yet terrifying .
Wonderful, because it makes of us
masters, not slaves.
Terrifying, because it makes us re-
sponsible to ourselves for the
kind of lives we live.
Of course, we can allow others to
do our thinking for us, but---!
What are you doing with your gift of
th ink ing ?
WE WERE JUST WONDERING.
Unscramble the word "th eepleno".
What are Nature' s s ubmarines?
What four-lett e r word ends in "en y "?
Where are the four c orners o f the
earth?
They are :
1. I rel and , northwar d to ward pol e.
2. New Guinea, north to ward Japan .
3 . South of Africa, centered about
one-half way to Antarctica.
4. West of South America - high
point off Peru.
These discoveries were made in 1965 at
Johns Hopkins Universi ty, from measure-
ments of earth-circling satellites. High
points of each cover thousands of square
miles and are 220 feet higher than if
earth were exactly spherical . Areas be-
tween are about 153 feet below roundness
of earth. Satellites were pulled down a
few hundred feet by high gravity of high
points.
Golden Rul e Publ1cat l ons, Ridgewood Ranch, Ukl ah, Call!orn l a 95482
:. ;
;f._:..
···1
.. ~·
.THE TEACHINGS
OF
CHRIST'S CHURCH
·
...
OF THE GOLDEN RULE
. i96 l.
·; .
.,•. ·:
Second, revised printing
Published and Copyrighted,
1961
by the Puhl i shing Society
of the Ecclesiastical Body
of
CHRIST'S CHURCH
of
THE GOLDEN RULE
First printing copyrighted 1955
by
CHRIST'S CHURCH
of
THE GOLDEN RULE
Christ's Church of The Golden Rule
Solinas, California
Printed in U. S. A.
<.
""'
Therefore all things whatsoever ye
would that men should do to you, do
ye even so to them: for this is the
law and the prophets. (Matthew 7: 12)
1
FOREWORD
I NASMUCH as mankind has seemingly been
so completely dependent upon materi-
alism for survival and so fully convinced
that the survival of the fittest meant
success for those with the greatest indi-
vidual accumulations of materiality, it
has been most difficult, if not virtually
impossible, to find a sufficient number
of people with the courage to honestly
and fairly apply Christ Jesus' recommen-
dations pertaining to substance as a
group action. They have felt that any
failure to follow the so-called human and
jungle laws of the survival of the fit-
test - and to ignore the generally ac-
cepted belief of the necessity of expend-
ing their total efforts for the "individ-
ual" accumulation of materiality - would
he a guarantee of failure at the very
outset of any such group action.
Not until the ecclesiastical member-
ship of Christ's Church of The Golden
Rule pledged itself to live in rigid com-
pliance with Christ Jesus' recommenda-
tions of human relationship has there
been - during recent centuries -- any
at tempt to prove or disprove the truth-
3
fulness and efficacy
teachings and general
economic level.
of Christ Jesus'
philosophy on an
Our Church, Christ's Church of The
Golden Rule, has a great, and vitally im-
portant, ministry to perform in behalf of
all mankind. Its own foundation hav-
ing been established (entirely upon the
idealistic Christian teachings already
put into its hands) our Church presents
·these idealis~ic teachings - separate
from all other churches, ph~losophies,
and movements -- for the sole purpose of
illustrating the practicability of Christ
Jesus' Golden Rule when "radically" 11p-
plied ·to the everyday affairs of men -
by indi v:i du:.a 1 and al so by group action.
It is believed that the time has now
come when some further step must be taken
by our Church toward promulgating its
teachings to the public. This bulletin
has therefore been prepared to inform our
Christian friends of the general nature
of our teachings, the essence of the
spiritual precepts upon which we base our
Golden Rule ministry, and some of the
reasons for the existence of our Crusad-
ing Christi an· Church . . . and to serve as
a constant reminder to the present affil-
iates of Christ's Church of The Golden
Rule of their daily .obligation and re-
sponsibility toward the fulfillment and
pr actica 1 application of "Our Visipn".
4
OUR VISION
A world free from want,
with liberty and justice
for all; and with under-
standing love toward God
and one another.
This day's work is ded-
icated to the end that we
may prove that it is more
blessed to give than to
receive and that it is
true that "giving does
not impoverish nor does
withholding enrich."
EXCERPTS FROM OUR CHURCH
CONSTITUTION AND CANON LAWS
ARTICLE I
OF THE CONSTITUTION OF
THE ECCLESIASTICAL SOCIETY OF
CHRIST'S CHURCH OF THE GOLDEN RULE
(with certain minor changes to
clarify the meaning thereof for
the purpose of this bulletin.)
DECLARATION OF FAITH
We deem it proper to state herein
some of the basic doctrines and principles
upon which Christ's Church of The Golden
Rule is founded, and the following decla-
ration expresses, substantially, what we
believe:
1. Of The True God:
We believe that there is but one liv-
ing and true Father-Mother God; omnip-
otent, omniscient, anq omnipresent Divine
Mind and changeless perfection; the Cre-
ator and Preserver of all things, both
7
visible and invisible; the Supreme Ruler
of. the Universe, .,;..holly worthy of honor,
confidence, and love - in Whom we live,
move, and have our being.
2. Of Christ Jesus:
We believe that Jesus of Nazareth was
inexpressibly wise, gentle, and holy; that
he came to earth to reveal God to all men,
and to exemplify by his actions and teach-
ings all of the virtues and goodness of a
perfec.t man; that by his life, crucifix-
ion, death, resurrection, and ascension he
became the Way-shower to all who believe
in his teachings; but that the Christ -
(Truth, the Mind that was in Christ Jesus)
- existed even before Abraham was, and
has always been co-existent with God ...
the man Jesus we believe to have been the
highest exemplification of the Christ
(Truth.) to have evolved from the race of
men - hence our acceptance of him as our
Way- shower.
3. Of The Holy Scriptures:
We believe that the original basic
teachings of the Holy Bible were written
by men moved by ~he Mind or Spirit that is
God; ·that it contains all directions nec-
essary to salvation; that it. reveals the
principles by which we shall. live . and be
judged; that it is, and will forever re-
main the basis of Christian fellowship and
the most perfect standard by which human
conduct shall be tried.
8
4. Of Salvation Through Repent-
ance and Regeneration:
We believe that to be saved from the
consequences of any kind of wrong-doing,
we must truly repent thereof and correct
our errors; that to be regenerated we must
respond free! y to the influence and power
of the Mind that is God "'--- the Mind that
was in Christ Jesus ~ that only the works
of that Mind be done on earth as they are
in heaven (perfect harmony) ... and that
the evidence of regeneration shall appear
as a more Christlike life.
5. Of True Religion:
We believe that the essence of true
religion is to learn to love God with all
of one's heart and the art of doing unto
others as we would have others do unto us;
that we must serve, rather than be served;
that the strong must help the so-called
weak, so that none may suffer; and that in
all things we should seek the perfect will
of God, and the good of all men.
6. Of The Economy of, The Church:
We believe that economic equality is
the only enduring foundation upon which
to build industrial, business, political,
national and international relationships;
and that to insu~e such equality the
property and earnings of all individuals
should be used to glorify God and to il-
lustrate the teachings of Christ Jesus.
9
DUTIES OF AFFILIATES
CANON LAW #24
It shall be the duty of all affili-
ates, including student ministers and mem-
bers of every classification, to constant-
ly remember that Christ Jesus' Golden Rule
appli~s specifically to THEIR treatment of
others, regardless of how others may treat
them, and to continually seek to use that
principle in their everyday 1 i ves and in
their dealings with all with whom they
come in contact ... whether affiliated
with the Church or any · of its agencies or
not. It shall further be the duty of all
affiliates, including student ministers
and members of every classification, to
earnestly endeavor to so 1 i ve that their
actions as well as their words will con-
stitute an exemplification of Christ Je-
sus' teachings and so continue to perfect
the "illustration" of the practicability
of such teachings which is being estab-
lished by Christ's Church of The Golden
Rule and all of its agencies .
10
THE ESSENCE OF OUR TEACHINGS
We believe that there is but one
Creator (or primal cause) of this uni-
verse, and everything and everyone there-
in, for if there were two or more gods,
something would have had to create them
and therefore there can be but One -
"ONE" who is without beginning and with-
out end, who has always .been and will al-
~ ~. as is the nature of Principle
and Truth, in the same way that 2 x 2 has
always been 4 and will always be 4 -
that which is changelessly COMPLETE!
That which is Truth can neither be
added to nor taken from, but is eternal-
1y changeless and perfect. We believe
that our Father-Mother God, the one and
only Creator or primal cause of all that
is, is not someone with arms or legs sit-
ting on a large, overstuffed throne in
some distant heaven, but instead is Life,
Truth, Love, Principle, Mind, Spirit,
Soul - all of substance and all that
substance ever has or ever will "actual-
ly" express. We believe that our Creator
is omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipres-
ent and that there is nothing besides
God (Good) in spite of the myriad illu-
sions of the so-called carnal or mortal
mind's seeming five physical senses.
11
We believe that we live and move and
have our being in God (Good) and that
there can, 1n actuality, be nothing but
perfection in all of the uni verse in
spite· of the Adam dream of "mist"-ifica-
tion which seemed to arise over the face
of the earth and declare the existence of
both good and evil - spirituality and
materiality life and death - health
and disease substance an3 poverty ~-
gentleness and brutality~- generosity
and greed - beauty and ugliness - etc.,
etc .... and we are fully convinced, from
the revelations of Truth which have come
into our experience, that right where
poverty, imperfection, disease, evil, or
death seem to be - (if one knew enough
of God - Good) - changeless perfection
would be found to exist.
We believe that all of Christ Jesus'
healings (so-called miracles) were the
result of his having eyes too pure in
their capacity to behold the evidences of
the perfection of God's universe, to be-
hold evil, and can be traced to his un-
shakable love of purity and perfection
and his understanding of the changeless,
universal laws supporting the eternal
perfect life of all that God has created
and his conviction that what God (Good)
did not create, cannot actually exist ex-
cept as a figment of one's imagination
and an illusion or ·distortion emanating
from the "mist"-ification and ignorance
of the so-called five physical senses, an
awakening from which would disclose a
12
perfect expression of Life, Truth, Love,
or Principle, at the exact spot where the
seeming! y carnal senses describe evil,
disease, poverty, imperfection, or death.
Above and beyond eve_ry desire that
has ever reached our hearts, or our con-
sciousness, is the determination to learn
to see mankind and God's uni verse in the
way that Christ Jesus saw them, and to
learn to love perfection enough to not
only awaken from the Adam dream our-
selves, but to senre in some little way
to awaken those around about us to the
eternal perfection and abundant good of
God's indescribably beauti fu 1 and won-
drous universe. We believe that we live
and move and have our being in the midst
of that perfection and that God (Good)
fills all space and there is naught out-
side of Him.
We believe that man was never born
and will never die, in spite of the vari-
ous dreams or mortal illusions, including
so-called birth and death, which seem at
the present time to obscure the eternal
nature and perfection of Life from ou:r
consciousness. We believe that one can
learn to be sufficiently grateful for all
of the beauty and goodness in God's uni-
verse to gradually unsee, or melt away to
its native nothingness, all imperfection,
as the rays of the sun disperse the fog,
and that if the desire in one's heart to
know God (Good) and to learn to be obedi-
ent to the laws of a perfect universe is
13
strong enough, that those laws·will guide
and dire.ct one's life along the pathway
leading to the perfe·ction which the world·
describes as heaven. We are equal! y as
firmly convinced that there is no possi-
ble means by which to die into heaven,
crash the gates, or to get there in !).ny
other way, without first learning to lov~
God (Good) with all o.ne' s heart and to
love one's brother as one's self, as
Jesus taught. There could be no harmony
in a world or_ a heaven of greed, self-
ishness, or brutality, and ·no joy in a
world of co.mpetitive "getting" in place
of ''giving", or expressing -- pressing
forth (manifesting) - the many concepts
of Life and Truth and Love, from the in-
finitesimal to the infinite.
To spend one's life in "getting" is
frequently to tear down and destroy - to
"give" is to build and press forth one's
capacities for good ~ for spreading hap-
piness and joy in the lives of men.
Man, to express God, must express
the protecting love that is God and must
try to help, not to hurt - must try to
build, not to destroy - to unfold ever
more beautifu 1 expressions of Life and
Truth and Love, not to devour or tear
down everything in sight ... and .man, to
find his heaven -- his harmony - must
first find God (Good) and the joy of do-
·ing unto others as he would have others
do unto him.
14
Such lessons are not le~rned by
wishful thinkers, but only by diligent
doers of the word of God. Putting on the
Mind that was in Christ Jesus is not
alone a matter of psalm singing and pray-
ing, but primarily has to do with living
such teachings and ceaselessly endeavor-
ing to encourage others to do likewise.
We have not found it any easier to
seek to put on that Mind that was in
Christ Jesus and to give up the world and
its so-called fleshpots and entrapments
of the five physical senses, with their
greedy, insatiable appetites for "get-
ting" than has any other human being,
throughout these last nearly two thousand
years, who has attempted to follow in the
footsteps of the Master Christian ... but
the difficulties to be encountered in
such a journey, from physical sense to
spiritual discernment, have seemed much
less important than the wisdom to be
gained from finding God; and no doubt we
have been as clumsy in following what is
actually a very clearly marked trail from
so-called matter to spirit (from a love
of materiality to a love of spirituality)
as has the clumsiest of those who have
sought to find or acquire "the Christ
Mind".
Je.:ius said, "Why callest thou me.
good?" There is only one who is good and
that is the Father who dwelleth in heaven
(in perfect harmony), nor do we know any-
one else who sincere!y seeks to under-
15
stand Christ Jesus' teachings to ever
consider himself, at this stage of un-
foldment, to have demonstrated the capac-
ity· to· be called good .. ·. but that does
n.ot preclude one from seeking to express
as much of God (as much of Good) as one
can. comprehend and demonstrate the char- -
acter to ex~ress.
If others who have lived more mate-
rialistic lives and who have had less op-
portunity for spiritual unfoldment, find
it difficult to understand our ministry
and the te~chings to which we subscribe,
at least we should - in this great Chris-
tian nation - be allowed. to both illus-
trate and preach such spiritual teachings
as we have been privileged to receive
through"our Church, especially since such
teachings ceaselessly ~ndeavor to encour-
age those around about us to do unto
others as they would have others do unto
them and to bend their every energy each
day to expressing as much of God (as much
of Good) as they can comprehend and to
make the trail a little smoother for
those who will follow after us.
We believe that Christ Jesus gave,
in one sentence, "Therefore all things
whatsoever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to themv(Matt. 7: 12),
the answer to all of the supersti ti on,
greed, poverty, crime, brutality, and war
that has ever ensnared the human race
thro111ghout its centuries of carnal mind
history. With every beat of our hearts,
16
we grow increasingly convinced that· it
would take but a short step for the en-
tire human race to go from a world of
heartbreaking seeming - poverty, ugliness,
and brutality into the heaven that Christ
Jesus stated was here ,U hand whenever
men would learn to do unto others as they
would have others d6 unto them.
It has been discovered that greed,
false ambition, and brutality have so be-
fogged the human mind that men have per-
mitted hundreds of millions of human be-
ings to starve from the so-called cradle
to the grave, century after century, and
tens of millions of them to pass on each
year after the indescribable tortures of
starvation, while they have failed to
ever plow more than one acre out of each
one hundred acres of soil on our planet
which could produce needed food. It has
been discovered that, instead of there
not being enough food to go arouna, every
man, woman, and child on earth could have
a twenty-course meal every hour of the
twenty-four hours each day of their lives
(if they could chew and digest it), and
barely scratch the surface of the earth's
productivity, if they would but "do unto
others as they would have others do unto
them" ... that there is enough in the way
of raw materials to produce entirely new
raiment every hour of the day for every
human being on the face of the earth
(were it needed), if but a small fraction
of the money used in war and criminally
17
organized greed throughout the world were
used for the production of the necessi-
ties of life ... furthermore, that the
excuse for w~r based upon a lack of room
is so absurd as to not be worthy of con-
sideration by even the most ignorant of
men, since the entire population of the
earth could be placed in the little state
of New Jersey alone and still enjoy more
beautiful parks, children's playgrounds·,
fountains and lakes and streams, and end-
less opportunities for self-expression
beyond anything ever provided in any city
on the face of the earth, if but a small
fraction of the engineering and architec-
tural discoveries of men were used for
such an achievement ~ instead of for war
. . . also that the nature of God's crea-
tion is such that the concept of "before
you ask, I shall answer" applies to all
of the· needs of men, as it has applied
throughout the centuries. For instance,
when the oxcart seemed too slow for man-
kind's unfolding desires, men· learned to.
train and use the greater speed of hors-
es; later, steam p 0we~ shortened the time
req·uired for abridging distance; before
man had even scratched the surface of
available coal supplies, he discovered
how to harness his virtually inexhaust-
ibl.e water power for the generation of
electricity, and before we have harnessed
a small part of that power, an under-
standing of atomic power is being ac-
quired, and there is but little doubt ~ut
that before we scratch the surface of
such forces, man will discover additional
18
and at present undreamed of sou.rces of
power, such as today hold the planets in
their orbits and provide expression of
adhesion and cohesion and the orderliness
manifested in the heavenly bodies.
In other words, God's creation is
inexhaustible, and men need never fear
lack, for there can be no such thing as
lack at any time after· men learn to "do
unto others as they ~ould have others do
unto them" and to devote their energies
toward building rather than to destroy-
ing, toward giving rather than to get-
ting, toward loving rather than to hat-
ing, toward.that which stands for grate-
ful recognition of the limitless gran-
deur, substance, and power of God's uni-
verse.
It is our belief that neither super-
stition, poverty, brutality, nor war can
ever be overcome in the experiences of
men until they learn to love God (Good),
perfection more than imperfection, purity
more than impurity, kindness and gentle-
ness more than unkindness and brutality;
learn to love to give, more than to de-
sire to get; learn to build rather· than
to destroy; learn the lessons of grati-
tude rather than those of self-pity;
learn to recognize and love the perfec-
tion of God's universe rather than to
·cringe from the Adam dreams. of supersti-
tion which have been passed down from
.century to c~ntury in order to enslave
men to a system based upon · greed and
selfishness.
19
In our Church, we do not believe
that it is the purpose of life to work
for money to buy bread to get the
strength to work for money to buy bread
to get the strength to do the same ridic-
ulous thing all over again! It is our
belief that the strong should help the
weak in..!!.~ Christian brotherhood, and
that man, from deep within his heart,
should desire to learn how to do unto
others as he would have others do unto
him, that men might Ii ve in brotherhood
instead of strife, and might discover
that the kingdom of heaven is truly at
hand as Christ Jesus stated that it was
and is ... that our all-wise Creator and
loving Father-Mother God has abundantly
provided for every possible need of His
children - that "before you ask I shall
answer" is the unalterable law of this
entire universe.
Wishful thinking does not bring into
the life of anyone the fulfillment of his
hopes - only unceasing constancy of dil-
igent effort to express constructive
service toward others brings fulfillment
of any worth-while achievement in the
lives of men.
When all mankind
accept these simple
they will acknowledge
(Good) over all of
children, and there
manifest "Peace on
toward men" . . . the
20
come to realize and
fundamental truths,
the dominion of God
the affairs of His
wi 11 truly be made
earth and good will
tyrant fear wi 11 be
reduced to its native nothingness, and
men and women will be free.
The major purpose of CHRIST'S CHURCH
OF THE GOLDEN RULE is to establish an
"illustration" of. the practicability of
these teachings a working model which
all mankind may see and understand. Our
ministry is not an easy one, but we fully
believe that Christ Jesus' vision of such
a Christian brotherhood is possible of
ultimate fulfillment.
Christ's Church of The Go Iden Rule
was founded specifically to engage in
such a ministry in behalf of mankind -
the ministry -0f proving that God is not a
being in some far-off heaven, but is as
close as our hands and feet, and that His
very presence provides every expression
of substance which men could desire. It
~as founded to help prov~ that every form
of good within our universe is available
to all mankind at any time that the uni-
versal laws pertaining to God's infinite
expressions of substance are obeyed.
Those of us close to the heart of
this great crusading ministry are able to
recognize the priceless value of its
idealism and major policies ... the time
has now arrived when it is necessary for
us to make sure that all right- thinking
men and women, the world over, are also
enabled to correctly evaluate and learn
to love the basic import of Christ Jesus'
teachings, and to recognize that only
21
--- -.-~.---;-----,-~ -- ---
through their uni versa 1 application in
all branches and phases of human rela-
tionship can a condition of permanent
peac.e and assured progress exist in the
lives of men.
To accomplish this, many different
kinds of object lessons - capable of be-
ing understood by all types and kinds of
people - will be needed. Al though the
chaotic state of world thought m~y oblige
us to teach these lessons in ways which
(to the uninitiated) may seem clumsy and
di~ficult, nevertheless, no part of the
basic fundamental idealism for which we
have always stood, or the major purposes
of Christ Jes us' teachings have ever
been, or will ever be, altered in our
presentation thereof universal law
does not change -- Truth is the same
yesterday, today, and forever - so also
must be that which reflects God's laws
the wrapping and the color or size of
the ribbons may be somewhat altered, but
the contents of the package can neither
be added to nor taken from when it is a
law of Love, of Life, or of Truth that is
being expressed.
The Great Way-shower gave, in his
Sermon on the Mount, a complete descrip-
tion of - and key to..:_ the charted course
by which the kingdom of heaven (which has
al ways been at hand and never afar off)
might easily and quickly be reached by
the entire human race, and he imparted
some of the simple rules by which we must
22
abide if we are to help mankind find its
way back to its birthright of heaven and
harmony.
MEN MUST LEARN TIIAT ALTIIOUGH GOD IS
NOT A_ GOD OF WRATII, NEVERTIIELESS, TIIERE
ARE LAWS WHICl:I CANNOT BE LIGHTLY BROKEN
IF WE ARE TO FiND LASTING PEACE AND HAP-
PINESS, AND IF GOD'S WILL IS TO BE MADE
MANIFEST ON EARTII {a>NSCIOUS AWARENESS)
AS IT IS IN HEAVEN {HARMONY AND JOY).
One of these laws is that "GIVING
does not impoverish nor does withholding
enrich" the miserly type of thought that
possessively attempts to cling to every-
thing upon which it can lay its grasp -
even - including ability, talents, vitali-
ty, and strength - all of which must be
freely and constantly given out (re-
leased) and expressed if one would not
grow sluggish and stupidly materialistic
and animalic. Man is primarily a think-
ing - creature, - and thinking demands ex-
pression - vital, constant "ACTIW" ·
When such action is based upon true vi-
sion, and a proper! y developed concept of
impartial brotherly love and service, it
is joyous and invigorating ... not debil~
itating nor depress~ng. ·
Some day we will learn that fatigue
and failure result primarily from trying.
to "m" something done rather · than to
'!W." Life, Truth, ·and lpving helpfulness
be spontaneously and joyously expressed
23
through us (in as unlabored a manner as a
beautiful image might be "reflected" by a
mirror), in the completion of the worthy
activities to which we are dedicating our
efforts. Such joyous "unlabored" spon-
taneity comes only from a ceaselessly
sustained visi~n of the "CQMPLETED" task
·.... it is quickly destroyed when one at-
tempts to count (or calculate the diffi-
culties of taking) the intervening foot-
steps - or when one in a miserly, petu-
lant, or resentful manner attempts to
dole out his ability, talents, and
strength in as small doses as possible.
At no time, throughout all of known
recorded history, have men and women
needed brotherly love, understanding, and
expressions of compassionate patience to
as great an extent as mankind does at
this time. The place to ~ expressing
these qualities is toward those with whom
~ ~ throwp, into daily contact, until
the habit of "unseeing" the seeming
faults of those around about us takes the
place of constant bickering, criticism,
and petty antagonism, and we learn to
discern and gratefully appreciate the
truly fine qualities which we can help to
bring to the surface in our contact with
1iteral1y everyone with whom we may as-
sociate.
There is always a lot more of good
of that which is truly admirable~ in
literally everyone we meet, than there is
of evil, imperfection, or such qualities
24
as so many people seem to think consti-
tutes their lifework to point out and
constantly criticize.
When gratitude and love take the
place of criticism and ego, we will find
that we already live in a world peopled.
by God's perfect, loving, and lovable
children ... that the brotherhood of man
is possibi"e of ·attainment, and that the
kingdom of heaven has always been at
hand.
Never has there been a man, woman,
or child on the face of this earth who
could not have found God and who could
not have been used by the power of His
love, had sufficient gratitude welled up
within his heart with which to unlock
the portals to heaven ~ the heaven which
comes from the. recognition of the pres-
ence of the ALLNESS of Life and Truth and
Love, ceaselessly expressed throughout
the uni verse, from the infinitesimal to
the infinite.
WE ALL ARE GOD'S CHILDREN
Each of God's children is important!
Can you imagine the science of mathemat-
ics getting very far without the "2" or
the "3".... or if it were to omit the
"7" or the "9"?
25
God could not be God ~ (could not
be ALL or wholly expressed -- pressed
forth) - if one of us were missing from
this universe. The universe would be in-
comp ~ete . . . it would be the same as if
the ~2" were missing from the science of
mathematics. There would be no "irref-
utable" science of mathematics.
Each of us is indispensable! The
only trouble with the majority of us Ls
that we do not realize just how important
we truly are as an indestructible element
of this universe. That does not mean be-
ing egotistical, or feeling superior to
anyone else, for all are the sons and
daughters of God. We wi 11 never find
lasting joy until we realize that this
fact endows us with the birthright of
dominion over ourselves and gives us the
right to dignity and sel £-respect -- to
sel £-confidence and assurance in every
"righteous" thing we do.
This realization has nothing to do
with the egotism of having stronger
hands; or of having certain colored hair
• while the other fellow seems to have no
hair at all. The materialistic or mor-
tal, carnal mind sense of values is
wrong, because it is not based on a feel-
ing of oneness with God and the realiza-
tion of what a son or daughter of God
should be like.
Imagine being the son or daughter of
the Creator of this universe, of being so
26
related to the Mind capable of evolving,
from the infinitesimal to the infinite,
all the marvels of this great uni verse
... being a son or daughter of that Crea-
tor. Of course w~ should have pride and
dignity! Naturally, we should feel a
sense of dominion. Why shouldn't we?
We don't have to hesitate to call on
the birthright of strength that is our.s
for the strength that WAS ours before
the morning stars sang together is STILL
our strength, and WILL BE our strength
long after the stars we can see in the
heavens have ceased to give out any light
-- have ceased to b.c. -- as far as our
present concept of them is concern~d.
For life is ageless and eternal and
will be proved to be so whenever we truly
learn the lessons of brotherly love,
whenever we clearly recognize the truth
that al 1 that God (Good) has created Y.,
j ndeed ~ ~ - and that seeming im-
perfection and incompleteness are but a
mirage of sel f-wil 1, greed, ingratitude,
and brutality ... the Adam dream from
which we will awaken whenever we learn
to love perfection enough to put on the
Mind that Christ Jesus expressed (pressed.
forth) and made manifest.
Let us count our blessings and say,
"Get thee behind me", to al 1 that may
tempt our thought away from gratitude ...
for this is God's world and it is VERY
_good, nor need we stay in any dream of
27
1 imi tati on a-r discord one second. longer
than it takes to accept as a fact the om-
nipresence of God's love,. for the evi-
dence of that love fills every foot of
space in expressions of· Life and beauty
and grandeur surpassing description.
If sufficient gratitude floods our
hearts, it is utterly impossible for us
NOT to apply The Golden Rule to every
phase of our daily lives.
Gratitude to God for the sunshine,
the moon, the stars, the sky, the birds
that sing in the trees, and the children
who laugh at their play, for each and
every one of our student minister asso-
ciates trying in his or her own way to
lighten the burden for us all ... grati-
tude must fill our hearts to the exclu-
sion of all mesmeric impulses of self-
pity, bitterness, or thoughts of persecu-
tion until our vision is enlarged beyond
the mists of petty thinking and -we find
that right here at hand God has provided
everything needful for our ministry and
for our security and happiness. There is
no sol vent of limitation or discord as
powerful as a song of gratitude in one's
heart and on one's lips.
Bringing happiness to others by
helping to lighten their load, in any way
that we can, still constitutes man's
greatest source of real weal th and the
source of his greatest happiness. There
is nothing that can keep us from spending
28
that wealth or finding the happiness that
comes from helping others, as we day by
day help to build ever-enlarging facili-
ties for proving the power of brotherly
love to uproot the seeming causes of
greed, self-centeredness, unkindness, and
brutality.
True "Children of this Church" are
clear thinkers ... they are idealistic
and courageous. They "see a world at
peace, adorned with every form of art,
with music's myriad voices thrilled,
while lips are rich with words of love
and truth"; and their de_sire for all
humanity to realize that it 1ives in
such a world is so great that they
·have gladly dedicated, and. now devote,
their talents and abilities to this re-
ligious Crusade and this religious work
with neither thought nor hope of any ma-
terial reward to themselves, and under
circumstances and organizational rules
which forbid any monetary reward to in-
ure to any individual from the Church's
property or income.
There is no crusade so vitally need-
ed·- and there is nothing bigger in this
world today -'- than the Golden Rule Cru-
sade of Christ's Church of The Golden
Rule. With our world as much overrun
with self-centeredness as it i~, there is
so much competition in all other branch-
es of human endeavor (and so many people
trying to get and so few trying to give),
29
that the only clear pathway you have,
where you are not outnumbered and out-
weighed a million to one, is in the field
of living Christ Jesus' teachings, and
"giving" instead of getting.
The only place we have iri this
world, where there is room for us, is in
the giying side of human endeavor where
we must constantly bear in mi.nd the fact
that we can actually reap only what we
sow, day by day, serving to the best of
our individual capacity and strength,
without any thought of what we are per-
sonally going to acquire as individuals,
or as a group. You cannot so live unless
and until you first have a much loved and
protected center for your affections.
You cannot make such a demonstration
without the encouragement and help of
others traveling in the same direction.
It can only be done in an atmosphere
where one is permitted and encouraged
to express that concept of living and
giving,
Our Church is ceaselessly endeavor-
ing to provide the essentials of envi-
ronment for such a Golden Rule way of
life. For those who mean to live a life
of that kind, and who are sincere! y de-
termined . to attempt to prove the far-
reaching effects of abiding by such a
principle, the Church provides a means
for them to do so . . . and provides ave-
nues for useful expressions of service
an~ labor.
30
One does not practice The Golden
Rule by doing nothing. One must always
do something useful. When one practices
such a rule of life there is always need
of constructive action of some kind.
Even if you are seeming! y confined to a
wheel chair, there is constructive ac-
tion you can express, such as teaching
others what you already know of Good.
If you cannot use any of your hands or
feet, and all you can do is ~peak, at
least you can affirm the truth about
God's changeless love and declare your
faith in that Truth. If you are suffi-
ci.en tly sincere and zealous in such ver-
bal expressions of your faith in God's
omnipresent love, and the changeless na-
ture of His universal laws of protection
and care, you will soon no longer be in
such a wheel chair.
There is always something you can
do. Living The Golden Rule always means
action! It never means just thought
alone. It may take a great deal of pray-
ing to give one the courage and the
strength to attempt to live up to Jesus'
teachings, but the end result is always
constructive action of some kind.
The world has already waited too
many centuries for our Golden Rule Cru-
sade, and surely it is high time that the
world had at least one church built pri-
marily upon ACTIONS - actively living
Christ Jesus' precepts of brother! y love
instead of merely preaching about the po-
etic beauty of such a concept.
31
- ---~-~---~-----~----,-
I
As far as this planet is concerned,
the ultimate success of our Crusade to
prove the universal practicability of
Christ Jesus' Golden Rule will depend
upon having enough people drawn to such
an ideal ·to illustrate the desirability
thereof t'o the citizens of every nation.
Mankind must be shown an example of the
-simplicity and goodness of such a way of
life, and of the worth-while fruitage of
peace, security, progress; and abundance
which inevitably takes 'place as a result
of one's voluntary compliance with such a
concept of living and one's ''wholeheart-
ed" support thereof -- with no mental
reservations of any kind or description.
32
W H A 'f Y 0 U C. A N D 0
T 0 fl E L .p !
33
THOSE ENGAGED IN OUR CHURCH' s WORK
. voluntarily dedicate to our Christian
Crusade their talents and efforts, and
receive no pay nor other monetary reward
for so doing. No part of the property or
income of the organization does or ever
can inure to any individual because all
of the property or income must be used
for religious purposes. as specified in
the Church Constitution and Canon Laws.
The p.ractical ~. application of
Christianity upon the Church projects is
for the purpose of carrying our ministry
to others, and of providing religious
training facilities. As an incidental
by-product of this religious work, we are
able to maintain these facilities and to
help make it possible for those engaged
in this Crusade· to continue to dedicate
their talents and efforts.· We try, as
St. ~aul did, not to be a monetary burden
to anyone in the ministry of our faith.
have
cable
cies
The temporal agencies of our Church
applied for tax exemptions appli-
to all churches. The taxing agen-
have never before been asked to
apply tax 1aws to a ministry or religi-
ous training that applies its religious
teaching to everyday life and whose inci-
dental by-product helps make it possi-
ble for those in the religious work to
dedicate their talents and efforts to
their Crusade. The novelty of our con-
cept has delayed its recognition. We
hope the temporal agencies of our Church
34
will eventually be
taxing agencies as
laws intend.
recognized by these
tax exempt, as the
Until such time as we have been
granted tax exemption, any donations sent
in by you will be gratefully received by
the Church, and the treasurer will send
you a simple receipt of acknowledgment
which will state the amount received and
that it wi 11 be used for religious pur-
poses only. Any financial help, freely
given, is indeed deeply appreciated.
Beyond the statements contained in
the Church publications no individual
correspondence is normally carried on
regarding the ministry or work of the
Church. However, the ecclesiastical of-
ficials will gladly arrange for a person-
al interview with anyone interested in
further information or explanation. Re-
quests for appointments should be ad-
dressed to:
Christ's Church of The Golden Rule
Ridgewood Ranch
Ukiah, California 95482
The Tax Court of the United States,
on February 28, 1964, held that our Church
and its subsidiaries were organized and
operated excl usi vel y for religious pur-
poses, and further held our Church and its
subsidiaries exempt under Sec. 501 (c) (2)
IRC 1954. Therefore, donations to our
Church are deductible from your Federal
income tax.
35
