{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1960__kullgren___messages_from_higher_planes.pdf","mytitle":"Messages From Higher Planes","mylang":"de"}
-
...
MESSAGES
from
HIGHER PLANES
"And He Shall Give His Angels
Charge Concerning Thee"
Compiled by
WILLIAM KULLCREN
Price $2.50
FOREWORD- OurGoal
I have been a Christian Crusader all my life. I have met many
leaders and would-be leaders but most of them lack the vision to
attain to their objective. There are not very many leaders in
America today for most of them are all right up to a certain point
and then they compromise-and he who compromises is lost. I no
longer take them seriously. It is too late in the day to take seriously
men and women who make excuses instead of getting results.
Very few leaders , spiritual or other wise, realize what the Man
of Galilee came for. He came to give us the abundant life; but that
abundant life can only be reached by obedience to spiritual life. I
have been actually fightin g Communism since 1917, but as I have
stated before fightin g Communism is not enough, and hating any
individual or group will not enable you to rea0h our goal. I can
truthfully say I do not hate any individual or group. We ib.avethe
same problem today as Jesus had in His day-we are fighting the
Forces of Darkness, the Synagogue of Satan, and Jesus named the
Synagogue of Satan.
Now the time is come when we must have a clear vision and
the courage to work towards it. Merely fighting the Forces of Evil
is not enough; we must have a constructiv,e program. If all real
patrtotic Americans would work witJh Willis Stone on his program
to put over the 23rd Amendment, we would draw the enemy's fire ,
we would steal his ammunition, we would make him impotent.
Another thing we must do is to relaize that God is not impotent ,
that He is in this picture, and we must "seek first the Kingdom of
God and His righteousness," then the way will open up for us to
attain our goal. Negative fighting will never accomplish our pur-
pose; we must put on tJhew'hole armour ,of God and l'ealize that we
are a part of the Christ Army. I am fortunate inasmuch as I am
conscious of the great spiritual Army now being assembled on the
other planes and on this plane. We must realize that we have a
Leader, and that Leader is He whom we call the "Lowly Nazarene."
You and I must tune in on Him and feel that invincible power that
He has .
Family worSihip is a part and parcel of this work for -t~t is
when you plug in on that invincible power. If you have never lea:J:l!-
ed to do that you don't know what you have missed. Jesus the '-------.
Christed One is not an abstract individual; FIJeis a power plant an<!_-/
He is now coming to set up His Kingdom on this earth planenot
in the sky . It is already established in the heaven world, and He is
coming to set it up on our earth .
4
Now the time is come to pres ·ent the picture to you as it exists
on the Higher Planes. As you read the message in this book you
cannot fail to realize and to see first, that there is a definite pro-
gram and plan and secondly, that we have a Leader that we can
depend upon. I charge you to read this message, to spread this
message as quickly as possible becaus ,e it will put new life into pro-
fessing Christians who accept this message. It will give them the
realization that the Christ Army is invincible, that it cannot and will
not fail. Many professing Christians are crushed as they view the
picture that will enable them to rise a:bove all negative things and
forces; it will show them how they can be part of this positive
Christ Army. Every one who reads this book has an obligation to
spread this message as quickly as possible.
You and I must do something more than believe, we must be
active workers in this Christ Army, the Army of Light. I am trying
to inspire in you the desire to enlist and become an active worker.
I am going out on the end of a limb to print 5,000 copies of this
book, and they ought to be all in circulation in 90 days. That goal
can be reached if every one of you have a part in this. I have no
doubt about the outcome; it is already settled in God's scheme of
things. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His rightness and
all other things will be added unto you." Those who can afford
should buy these books by the hundreds and put them into the
hands of foey men and women, men and women who are today
floundering. Rejoice and be glad because we have a real invincible
Leader.
I am not asking you to do this for my sake; I am asking you to
do it that you may be consistent with the things you say you believe.
You have got to quit singing "In the Sweet Bye and Bye." You have
got to have a more militant attitude and sing, "Onward Christian
Soldiers." Your future is wrapped up in this package whether you
realize it or not. Spread this constructive message as it is revealed
from the Higher Planes from the various teachers who are working
on the Christ Ray-and they get their inspiration from Him, and
you can do likewise. I eagerly await your response. In producing
this material, I have done my part; now it is up to you . What is your
answer?
/
5
INTRODUCTION
The writer 1
has been a student of all phases of prophecy for
nearly 60 years. There never was a time in the history of the world
when people were so anxious to have a foretaste of coming events.
Now there are various sources of prophecy: first, we have th e
Holy Bible which is approximately one -third prophecy although
you would never think so if you listened to the average sermon
emanating from the average church. Next, in my ·opinion, is astro-
logy, and then the great Pyramid of Gizeh.
Then come the various psychic sources. And !here is where
confusion often c1,eeps in. Jesus said, "In My Father's house are
many mansions." To the average Christian that is not very clear
and explicit. Let me try to explain-substitute the word "planes"
for mansions and you will have a better understandin g.
Now the bulk of psychic p11ophecy does not come from a very
high source. These planes are like rungs of a ladder. Naturally
those on the highest rungs of the ladder have a better view of thing s
around them than thos ,e on the lower. That is why the average
spirit mediums often disagree with each other-their vision is
all right as far as it goes but it doesn't go high enough .
My study of the otJher side of life leads me to believe there are
12 planes and each one subdivided seven times. Those on the firs t
plane or any division thel'eof are strictly limited. Their judgmen t
is based on what is visible in the immediate future. Let me give you
an example: One well-known spiritualist in 1950 said, "Princess
Margaret will marry Peter Townsend." Well, there is no evidence
that she will. Any astrologer could have told that medium that she
would not because tJhere was no evidence on the phys ical plane.
Now don 't be too hard on this medium . The medium saw a man
resembling Peter Townsend and jumped to the conclusion that it
was Peter. Now you take the picture of Townsend and put it along-
side of Armstrong-Jones and you will see a striking resemblance.
Then again take the picture of Princess Margaret and the Belgian
girl Peter did marry and there again is a striking resemblance.
Now thos ,e on the highest plane get a clearer picture and do
not fall into that error if they were trained prophets. Nor would th e
astrologer be apt to fall into that error because the ast11ologer
would not be fooled by resemblance but would ana lyze the indi-
vidual chart. I have known prophecies coming from the third and
fourth and fifth planes-which means there are som e 28 to 30
subdivisions below their plane-and yet they were in error. I have
rece ived prophecies from George Washington and Abraham Lin-
coln, who are supposed to be on the fifth plane, yet they were in
error because-as per the illustration I have given-they judge d
by appearances and then jumped to conclusions. Some day I will
publish those letters.
A few months ago Abraiham Lincoln through a medium in
Pelley's headquarters, stated that Castro was not a Communist
6
but a patriot of the first water. You can see today that he was
in error. I violently disagreed with that prophecy at that time from
physical facts alone, but when I saw Uranus crossing Castro's Sun
I knew that was a dangerous sign. Uranus, by the way, is the ruling
planet of Russia, and Russia's ruling planet dominated his Sun;
that is, it was the motivating force in his life. You can judge for
yourselves by the results today.
Now these prophecies in this book were received in different
parts of the world, and mostly were oollected by a source in New
Zealand. In this collection of prophecies you will note one entitled:
"The Philosopher, Plato" and speaks of the perfect republic about
to be established. Personally I was deeply impressed with Plato's
message and he says, "I am Plato and I am on the seventh orbit
of your solar system, from the 7th plane." I may say very rarely
do you get anything from above the fifth plane, so I want you to
study Plato's prophecy very deeply because I believe it to be ac-
curate, based on my own knowJ.edge and experience.
I am not only an astrologer but I am a keen student of Bible
prophecy, and to a lesser degree of the prophecies from the various
students of the great Pyramid of Gizeh. I believe God Almighty gave
us the Written Bible and the ancient science of Astrology, and it is
a science regardless of those critics who know little or nothing
about the subject first hand.
Of course, you have the various psychics and all these types
are described in your Bible, such as trance mediums, automatic
writing, impingement from the higiher planes, and that means in-
spirational messages picked up the same way the radio picks up
from the broadcast station so it is possible for you and me to re-
ceive mesasges from the Man of Galilee. I know whereof I speak for
I have received many such.
I have many in my band from the higher planes who are
guiding and directing me, and I have received oil paintings from
some of these teachers on the higher planes. Only a few days ago
I received one, and on the back is this inscription: "Father Joseph
for William Kullgren." The artist in her letter says, "I have reason
to believe that Joseph was the physical father of Jesus ." If this be
s·o- and I believe it is-it confirms the statement in the book
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE SPIRIT WORLD by Johannes
Greber , who makes the statement that both Mary and Joseph were
in trance condition and that Jesus had entranced Joseph. There-
fore, there was a spiritual seed from Jesus as well as a p(hysical seed
from Joseph, so strictly speaking that does not contradict the Bible
at all. If you want to check on ,
this, get a copy of COMMUNICA-
TIONS WITH THE SPIRIT WORLD, price $5.00 plus sales tax,
and you will find it on page 311 on 'THE HUMAN BIRTH OF JESUS.
Greber states that the passage referring to the birth of Jesus
was incorrectly interpret ,ed. Jesus took possession of the body of
Joseph, and as Gabriel stepped out Jesus entered in. This explana-
tion does not weaken the :Biblical version; it explains the modus
7
way, that was the real marriage of Joseph and Mary in a spiritual
sense. A marriage is the uniting of forces. A marriage ceremony
is merely a legal recognition of that fact. You say that is rath er
unconventional. True, but wihen did spiritual things or God work
in a conventional manner? Spiritual manifestations are decidedly
unconventional, and so when a male and female come together
that is their real marriag ·e whether they realize it or not .
Now I hope this explanation or introduction will help you to
evaluate or understand better some of these prophecies . If they do.
it is going to help to prepar ,e you for ·events tJhat are going to unfold
in the very near future , and I beseech you to spread this messa ge
if you want to help the coming Messiah as He returns to earth
because His task will be much easier if he meets people who are
educated and know what to expect. I am convinced after a life-
long study of all phases of pr0phecy t!hat the Messiah is about
to return, and that He is contacting hundreds and perhaps tho u-
sands of mediums throughout the world and that tJhey will be the
advanced guard of His disciples on earth when He returns.
I have dedicated my life to this high purpose; everything in my
life is secondary. My mission is similar to that of John the Baptist
in his day, namely, to help prepare the way for that great Soul
Who is coming and Who is to set up a new system based on Divine
spiritual Laws which were given long hefore the time of Moses and
then repeated to him. I ihave sacrificed everything that a human
being holds dear to this Cause, including a very substantial fortune.
The Master appeared to me in a vision more than 50 years
ago. It startled and shocked me, nevertheless I accepted it for
what it was . Through the intervening years I have received many
messages from Him, and so have thousands of others throughout
the world. Most of these souls are in very lowly positions in life
and they lack the ability to deliver their messages to the world.
I have published for nearly 35 years-I have that ability; I have a
vehicle the BEACON LIGHT HERALD published monthly . Many
readers know I have published my messages from the Master re-
ceived by myself and others.
Now I am presenting to you once again the opportunity to
enlist in the Christ Army. It is a v,ery rare privilege that I am ex-
tending to you in His name. This introduction was outlined to me
in the early hours of the morning on March the 22nd. By the way,
most of my inspirational messages were received between one
and three in the morning, so I seldom get any sleep after midnigh t,
one o'clock at the latest. Will you accept this offer from the Master
to enlist in His Army and to spread the good news of His coming
to deliver mankind from slavery? We are in bondage just as the
ancient Israelites were, and Moses in that day came to deliver them.
Christ is coming to free, first the Anglo Saxon World from bondage.
He will smash our present monetary system first for we are in
bondage through our present monetary system and system of tax-
ation. It may be difficult for you to accept this statement but I say
8
operandi or the method in which it was accomplished. By the
without fear of successful contradiction your eyes will pop with
astonishment as the plan unfolds in 1961, '62 and '63. I believe the
old system will be passed away by 1965. Our present Babylonian
system of money or finance will be wrecked as described in the
Book of Revelation. Militarism will be wrecked beyond redemption
chiefly because the monetary system will be changed, also the
system of taxation.
In the realm of religion much that goes for Christianity is
nothing of the kind. Pure Christianity as Christ taught did not sur-
vive the days of Constantine. Constantine never accepted Christian-
ity; he took over and grafted the old Babylonian system onto
Christianity; matter of fact he blended wi1Jhthe teachings of the
early Ohristians.
Yes, my friends , the Man of Galilee is coming to set up a new
system. In the meantime you and I can do much missionary work
to enli ghten the religious world of what the Kingdom of God, or
the good news of the Kingdom, really consists of. Help to educate
your neighbors to this new line of thinking. Yes , the mighty Churc:h
of Rome is going to crash; that is the "Great Harlot" of religion.
If the Church of Rome and the Church of England and their off-
shoots were to disappear tomorrow, it would leave a gr.eat vacuum
and people would be panicky. Therefore, we must fill that vacuum
now so that the transition will be as painless as possible.
You professing Christians should have no difficulty in accept-
ing this platform because it is all in your Bible. Any real student of
the Great Pyramid of Gizeh and many spiritually minded astrologers
will more than confirm what I have stated. Astrology is of Divine
origin. If it weren't, it would not work. No edict of man can bring
to fullfilment the indications of the planets. No man-made philo-
sophy or edict could control the tide as the Sun and Moon do, espe-
cially the latter. This is all of Divine origin.
Will you join me in this great crusade? It is necessary for me
to have a quick response to this book that I may be able to meet
my printer 's bills. On faith we are going to print 5,00'0 copies, first
edition. I am extending to you a rare opportunity and a privilege
to help prepare the masses of the English-speaking world for the
coming of the Messiah. All those who resist His coming will be des-
troyed physically because there can and will be no opposition to
His will, for He is the personal representative of God Almighty,
the Creator of heaven and eartJh. Advanced copies will be sent to
key men and women and those who do not catch the vision will
be sorry later on.
Yours in the Master's Service
William Kullgren
Most of these massages are from the Spiritual center in New
Zealand:
"HIDRALDS OF THE NIDW AGE," Study Centre, 80 Almorah
Road, Epsom, Auckland, S. E. 3, N. Z.
9
SIGN s· IN THE SKIES
(Explanations and Forecasts Given By Ashtar of Venus)
Reasons for Phenomena of August 1959 (20/8/59).
Question: Willyis there so much activity around the Nelson district
just now in the way of flying saucers?
We have, as we have told you aforetime, sent to you some in
this your month of August. Not yet is that time past for ev·en as
yet before the end of this month you will note many wonderful
things in your atmosphere and also there will be some movemen ts
of your earth which thave been occurring and which will occur in
numerous places upon your globe. The disturbance is caused of
course by the situation of many of the planets at the present time;
and also you, my dear ones, are sending up into your atmosphere,
and even far away into space, many various forms of radiations
which will cause disturbance not only upon your globe called the
Earth, but also to some extent upon those of our own planets. We
are naturally now inclined to gain further knowledge of mankind
and we are proposing to send to you some ambassadors so that
we of those other realms have but your peace and happiness at
heart. We would try too to show you the way to bring peace and
happiness upon your globe, but unfortunately at the present time
there is so much sanguinary kind of trouble that we do not want
to be involved. Nor do we find that we can quell it to the €Xtent
which we desire.
Question: Ashtar, will these ambassadors come in the spirit or in
the flesh?
They will come in the flesh but must choose a suitable time lest
mankind should run to riot or experience extreme fear.
'' .Another Sun Will Enter Your Solar System''
(31/ 8/ 59)
(The following information was given to confirm a statem ent
made in "My Contact with Flying Saucers" by Dino Kraspe-
don - a statement whioh the group has been discussing. Kras-
pedon who claims to have had information given him by a
Captain of a space ship from a satellite of Jupiter - a space ship
wh ich landed in Brazil - writes that towards the end of this cen-
tury a second Sun will enter our solar system taking up its position
near our present one. This will result, we are told, in all the planets
of our system being forced further from tJhe center of the system,
so that the Earth will then travel in the present orbit of the Aster-
oids and Pluto, the outermost plane, will ·be entirely ejected from
our system. During these readjustments the Moon, it is stated, will
be forced away from the Earth and will become a planet in orbit
round the two suns.)
10
Well another sun will enter your solar system, my friends, and
when it does come, tJhis twin of your own sun, then you will find
that the axis of your Earth will change and also that the conditions
upon your world will be very different from now. There will be
more warmth and the ice will be diss·olved and there will be other
changes that perhaps you would not care for in your present state.
Tille change of life upon your globe will be of great consequence
but that change will be most suitable for the occupants thereof.
You, my dear children, will not be here to see these things for they
will come but slowly but also surely .
A Face Will Appear in the Sky
(3/8/59)
Dear friends of Shan, I would not put fear within your hearts,
but there will appear in tJhe sky a great and wonderful vision of a
face which will look down upon you all. Then will many be in utmost
fear. These things are coming unto you and the shakings and the
tremblings of your earth will be great. 'There will come, too, con-
siderable changes in the physical attributes of those who dwell upon
Shan. These mutations will result from those radiations which you
are sending forth into your atmosphere. Nothing is surer.
Question: For better or for worse please, Ashtar?
At first it may appear that it will be for the worse but as time
goes on and life is enabled to face these radiations tlhen there will
arise many forms of being in the physical which will be of gr,eater
and finer forces. So all these things that appear to you to come as
disasters will come to you as enlightenment and advancement.
Question: Can you tell us about that face tJhat will appear in the
sky, please Aslb.tar? Whom will it represent?
This face will be that all powerful Being who will look upon
you all and know each one - your individual thoughts and feelings.
Let me tell y;outhat the Master will come and that face will appear
all over the world. Even now, my children, you are advancing and
that form of vision whioh you call television will develop to so great
an extent that it will be to you not merely as a small film but as
reality. It will be as if these visions are real beside you. Each one
within his own home will be able to sit and hear the voice of the
Divine, the voice that will sound throug,hout the whole world. The
face and the figure that will appear to you of the Great One will be
seen in these visions upon your world. All these things will be;
always has it been prophesied. And when the greatest of the dark-
ness comes upon you, when man takes no note of many things
and lives not for a while until he is again re-created, then you, my
children, will know in the spirit that God is all things and has power
to do anything. He will put upon your globe beings not perhaps as
yourselves, but with greater spiritual attributes and you, my chil-
dren, will be enabled to give these forms life and to go forth and do
your duty and till.atwhich is so necessary for your well being. Great
11
radiance will envelop all mankind and all His creatures once again.
I would say, my children, despair not for all is well and that wonder-
ful Being who is of all, who is as ourselves - we who dwell in the
heav ,ens and you who dwell in the material world - this Great One,
this Creator, is yours to take unto yourselves.
Farewell, God be with you and keep you forever . .
Lights in the Sky Over London
(7/ 9/ 59)
Question: Can you explain the signs in the skies which are reported
to have been over London?
We, my children, are there. We have sent forth our forces and
they are gradually being observed by many. We are hoping that as
times goes on the man observes us more minutely, we will be -
enabl-
ed to gain touch with safety and that we will all be in harmony to-
gether. But unfortunately man is a creature of militarism and he is
aggressive and might go forward and try to hurt and to disarm us.
So we must be careful ere we descend. Some of us are now upon
your world Shan and are going amongst you showing many the
way and gradually letting a word fall here and there trying to make
humanity become used tJothe thought tJhat we are walking amongst
you. But we must not as yet let mankind know too much because
he would take us and try to destroy us. And we, in defense, although
much against our will, might do harm to humanity and that is not
our desire.
Question: Worthe sake of tlb.elisteners, would you mind describing
that light that was in the sky?
We sent forth our ships and some saw the light that was there.
It was wonderful of course. Our lights are often dissimilar to those
which you yourselves show but you are at last finding that those
forms 10felectricity which are being used now in your own realm ,
those lights which you call neon lights and which can be of many
beautiful colours, are but form of gas into which these electric
charges are being sent tJhat causes these different lights. We have
these sciences down to a fine art and know what can be done. So,
often when we descend t o you, you will see strange and wonderful
colours. Our space men often appear to you as if they were as your-
selves but they could not comfortably live in your particular form
of atmosphere. It depends entirely where they come from. Those
from Venus can breathe in your atmosphere though with a little dis-
comfort perhaps, and you yourselves, if you were to come to that
planet, would find that you were quite able to live there. After a
little while you would become more used to our atmosphere and to
the heavy moisture which we have.
Question: Ashtar, the shooting stars we see - are they shooting
stars or not,
12
Some are and some are not. Some are what you know as
meteors that strike your atmosphere and descend upon your planet
in different places. But some ar,e our ships. I heard you speak of
shooting stars. Well two* of those were not shooting stars but our
ships which had been sent out to observe your particular harbour.
\We are trying to gain knowledge of your own world as we know
that within the next f,ew years many tremors - I think you call
them eartihquakes - are coming to your planet, and that in this
place where you are now dwelling there will be both tremors and
eruptions of some of your volcanoes. But do not be too startled
because gradually the warnings will come and the tremors will
give you notice when you must depart from some of those places
in which you are now living.
*These were seen over Rangitoto (an island in 1:Jhe
Auckland Har-
bour) by a member of the group.
How the Foolishness of Man Is, Even Now,
.Affecting the Physical Body
(Avita, 6/10/59)
Let all men know that it is most necessary at this time 1:Jhat
they should agree one with the other and cease from all those
terrible murderous acts which they have done from the beginning.
In fact they simply MUST do that because, if they do not, then this
world will be utterly destroyed. We of the spirit know this to be the
perfect truth. Man must agree with man and those that have not
the love of humanity in their hearts must be discarded.
It is most necessary that ·
1:Jhey
should refrain from putting forth
into the atmosphere those things which will fall upon them and
destroy them and their children and their children's children. Even
as a result of what men !have done up to the present there will be
upon this world much sorrow because of the afflictions that will
come upon the young. The destruction has already started. Leuce-
mia, that form of blood anemia which is a destruction of the red
corpuscles in the blood of man, is now descending upon this planet
and those scientists who have the knowledge and the power must
at once seek ways and means of averting this sorrow. Alas for those
who have the young of these days! Do not envy these ones because
the sorrow will descend upon the Earth through the foolishness of
man. Let them now stay t!hese things. If they do not so, man will
convert himself into different forms and those creatures of the
Earth that dwell therein, those who browse upon the grass and the
fishes that are in the sea, will each !have much malformation and
thou wilt take these things into thy physical being. It will not do
much harm to those of many years but I pray for the help of those
wiho are with young and those who are young. Great sorrow is
descending upon them already because of the foolishness of those
who think they know better than the Almighty Creator of all.
Question :Can you not offer us any protective measures?
13
We do our utmost but man continues in his foolishness. He
cannot destroy that which !hehas disturbed from beneath the earth,
that which the Creator placed there for the good of the world which
He created. Man as taken it from below the ,earth where it was pu t
He created. Man has taken it from below the earth where it was put
that much good might come; but man having found these powers,
these metals, these forms of destruction, is using them for a pur -
pose which was not intended in the beginning. So now he must
train himself so that he may learn of many ohings which will dis-
card this sorrow which is descending upon all mankind . In thine
atmosphere, in the years to come, there will be falling upon thee
many things which are not desirable but whioh will give to man
sorrow ,of the physical body.
Advance! Go forward, 0 my friends! Let thy scientists who in
their foolishness have brought these evils upon thee seek for those
tJhings which will stay the disintegration of the physical body. By
the help from those of the Inner Light and by the many things
which will be inspired into the minds of some will these sorrows be
stayed.
Question: Is that the only way the remedies can come, friend,
throug,h inspiration from the scientists?
The only way, my friends, because the Creator gave to thee
that Inner Light s1
0 that thou wouldst gain the inspiration to des-
troy that which was not for perfection of thyselves. Go forward, my
children. Pray for help. Take to thyself that which is good for thy
body for it is of necessity to do so. To regard these things as if they
were of no account is very foolish. Man taketh within him many
things that are undesirable for his physical being. Depart from
bloodshed for it is not necessary and many are destroyed ther ,eby.
Depart f:r,omme, tJhou people of sorrow for thou knowest not the
things that in thy foolishness thou doest unto thine, our physic al
bodies. Depart now from the teachings of the Almighty Fat her, He
who gave thee purity of the waters, He who gave thee to indulge in
the rains from the heavens. He has given thee so much, yet thou
who are of the physic al man thin kest that thou kno west more than
the Eternal Father; but it is unto disaster that thou goe st if thou
wilt take of tho se things which are not good frorthy bein g. Fare well.
Question: Wib.ois speak ing , plea se ?
I, my friend, am Avita. I ha ve not spoken to thee befo re. I know
the course in which thou are going and these thing s mu st be averted
from thee by the wisdom of those who have thy future in their
hands .
O Light Eternal, descent upon thee.
14
A Former Inhabitant of Lucifer Speaks to Earth
(21/9/59)
I who speak to you am one who once dwelt upon Lucifer. I have
come to speak to you of the Dark Star (Earth) to warn you that if
thou dost not evolve to greater heights thou wilt find that there will
come unto , thee much illusion and sorrow.
Question: Is Lucifer a planet, friend?
I, my friend, am now upon that planet which thou callest Venus
but I was once upon tJhat planet called Lucifer which long aeons of
time ago disintegrated into many pieces - where there has been
nothing since but chaos.
Question: What is its name now in the heavens?
It is Lucifer. It is a belt of Asteroids in that place where man-
kind with his mathematical ability was enabled to find that there
ought to be another planet. When he 11oundthat there could be none
there then he concluded that this belt of Asteroids was a planet
which had disintegrated and become as nothing.
At the time of its destruction there were many who had great
ambitions but they knew not how to cont:riolthe forces which they
had acquired within their hands. In their ignorance they wer,e gain-
ing too much of the horrifying things and they themselves were
impure in character in every way. There were none that were able
and allowed to continue in existence as physical beings for the
Almighty was not satisfied with the form which they were taking.
So they were destroyed utterly and, although the spirits of some,
that part of them which was not of a physical nature , went on to
other places, still they were not allowed to develop upon those
other planets in their natural physical form, but only if they adopt-
ed the same physical form as the other inhabitants of the particular
globes on which they wished to incarnate. When the people of
Lucifer, in the blackness of their hearts, destroyed themselves, the
Almighty allowed their spiritual selves to reincarnate that they
might receive lessons and chastisement while going through these
differe nt evolvements. It was great and brou ght their spiritual being
into a greater clarity and beauty.
Beware lest you in your foolishness bring upon your planet
Earth the same fate as that whioh befell Lucifer long aeons ago.
You now are gaining knowledge and inspiration has been sent unto
you so that you may be able to evolve and make for yourselves
vehicles that you may go forth to other places; for, if you desire
to destroy your own habitation, then it is necessary that some of
you should go forth and gain some other home, some other place
in which to dwell; for only by doing s·o will you as beings continue
which you would be able to dwell. Before the great disaster comes
to exist. There are many worlds that require seeding and upon
to your own habitation man must gain much knowledge and the
15
time will be stayed until he has found a way of going to inhabit
other globes. Until tha;t time comes man will not be allowed to des-
troy his own habitation.
Question: How long ago was Luficer destroyed?
'That, my friend, was before you had any history upon your
planet - long aeons of time ago. As you know, your world existed
many many millions of years before what you call Noah's flood.
You will learn in time that this world of yours was civilized for 190
thousand years before that which you call the flood. In your world
there were many wise people of 1:Jhattime. Do not imagine, my
friends, that you are the greatest civilization that has ever dwelt
upon your particular planet. Your world was not always exactly
as it is at this time. Constantly is it changing just as all the other
worlds in the many universes are. At one time the hills and the
mountains that you now see were beneath rf:Jhe
ocean as many of
your scientists have discovered. Many of your lands that now exist
were once joined together . This is very obvious to even yourselves
for you have observed that many animals that are similar have tra,...
veled from one point to another and could not have done so unless
they had had dry land to go upon. And, my friends, thou knowest
that many of the beaches are high up on your hills; there are found
many shells and marine formations which at one time were beneath
the ocean. .
And so your world continues to ohange •
continually and many
wonderful civilizations are unknown to man of the present time
because he has not been enabled to gain their history. Yet if he
would delve further he would find often among the great deserts
many of the wonderful creations of man. In that place which thou
callest the Gobi Desert 1:Jhouwilt find great cities hidden and if
mankind would but continue to delve he would find much interest
and much information in many ways and forms. As yet he knows
but little of his beginning. He began long aeons of time ago; he
came from the waters and dev,eloped into a creature of the land.
The Lord of all provided him with all that it was necessary that he
sib.ouldhave and yet he praises Him not and will not say that the
Almighty God lives. If he but knew these things from the begin-
ning, his acts would be so different. He defies the words of the
heavens. O my dear ones, defy not for the Lord is powerful. He has
you all in His hands and in His way thou wilt go even if thou
desirest it not, for thou wilt be refined and sharpened and become
a finer and more beautiful instrument in His hands. I would say
farewell to thee.
Question: Are yioua physical being from Venus or a spiritual being?
I am a spiritual being. My name is Ahalius. My being, my spirit,
came from that planet that was dissolved many aeons of time ago
but I have come forth often again and yet again I will go forth
becauae my time is not yet to ·
be enfolded.
God bless you all and keep you.
16
Ashtar Speaks of the Light of the Spirit
Dear friends of Shan, I am here to speak with you and so de-
lighted to be with you, as always. I would tihat I could be with thee
in the material form and that thou wouldst know and see with thy
physical eyes that we are with thee. I know thait you are pleased
1:Jo
speak a few words with me at this time and we look forward to
being with you tJhat we may incline our hearts together and lift
ourselves into the IDternal Light and be as one with our Creator;
for we know that He is ever with us, that we cannot depart from
Him, that He surrounds and permeates our very being always. Not
only at ,one time or for only a little time, not only at night or in the
morning, but always He is with us. We feel him surrounding us,
rejoicing at our joys and sorrowing at our sorrows.
Question: How do you visualize the presence of the Creator please,
Ashtar?
That presence is ever with thee. Thou canst feel it permeating
thy being. It is an everliving, an ·ever overpowering energy which
infiltrates into thee and gives thee the light, the life also which
thou hast. If that Life, that Light, were not witJh thee thou couldst
not visualize anything for thiou wouldst not be; and those things
that surround thee thou couldst not appreciate for thou wouldst be
as nothing. You can feel this ligiht infiltrating through thy being.
Wait and listen and thou wilt hear thait wonderful sound which
permeates all the existence and all the spheres and planets. They
go ,on murmuring the name of the ·Creator. If thou callest this to
thyselves thou wilt find that there is in thy physical being some-
thing greater and more beautiful, and the peace that is within thee
will be more intense. Even when thou leavest the physical body thou
wilt find that thou art gliding into that Eternal Light and the ecs-
tasy that will be tJhine will be most marvelous.
Fortunate it is, perhaps, for mankind tJhat he has such a great
attachment for his own physical being because ,otherwise he would
desire to go on and enter into that larger life and , although the
yearning may be great 1:Jhatthis should be , still, upon the physical
plane he must continue to do those things that are necessary for
him; because he must have that soul as you my children, call it,
purified and made miore wonderful and better and gr.eater. So detest
not thyself that thou are emerged in the physical being because it is
most necessary for thy fulfilment. When, however, thou are taken
therefrom, the rejoicings in the heavens will be great that one again
has come to be wi:th them to rejoice and be greater and happier.
0 dear ones, 0 dear ·children of Shan, realize that all is given
to thee fur a purpose so that 1:Jhouwilt come eventually to that
Eternal Joy and gain for thyselv ,es the beauty of holiness, love and
peace. Pour forth from thyselves this love of all, FOR LOVE'IS THE
KEYNOTE OF GOD, THE ETERNAL, and there is nothing else that
17
is worthy of His love and joy. The love that you give to the Father
of all who has given thee so much will be returned to thee a hun-
dredfold. 0 my friends, my dear children of Shan, listen to my
words and ever sing the praises of the Everlasting, that Energy
which is so wonderful, that Eternal Light which thou canst take
into thyself if thou so desir ,est it. Sit, my dear ones, in meditation.
At least twice a day lift thyself into the Eternal Light if thou desirest
the inspiration that can be sent unto thee. Let your heart lift upward
into that place of all, that pure eternity and, ,even when thou hast
distress of body, fear not; for all is well witJh thee. Oft there are sent
to thee these discrepancies in the p4ysical body to stay thee from
more harmful unnecessary things which otherwise thou mightest
do; or perhaps they are sent so that thy mind might be filled with
the Light of the Almighty and that thou wilt know that thou are
in His presence and that He ever has thee in His arms enfolding
thee and awaiting thy arrival upon the higher plane of light. The
blessings that have been sent unto thee. 0 my dear ones, are many
and we would develop in thee that form of being which will enable
thee to send forth more light unto the peoples of the Earth. All of
you who now are in the presence will gain this power of sending
forth light from yourselves.
My dear ones, I am most desirous that these things should be
sent forth to the people who dwell on Shan for they require much.
In each one of you here present in ,
the flesh there dwells this
spiritual light and you may, if you so desire it, become great leaders
of the people for forth from this lighted landing place there goes
forth a brilliant light which will give to humanity great happiness.
The peace that will descend upon this unhappy world of Shan will
be greatly to the credit of this small circle that meets within the
temple to hear the words from the higher spiritual realm .
Question: What length of tin1e should we give to the broadcastin g
of the light, Ashtar?
It would be desirous thait you should give of your time 15
minutes to send forth the light of healing and peace and joy over
your whole world of Shan for, while you are in the silence and send-
ing forth these beams of light, you are being enabled to send mes-
sages of joy and peace all over your world. Those that you send
these wishes to will feel vibrating within them this spiritual Light
and they will do their utmost to avoid doing harm to the beings who
dwell upon your world.
Question: Is the light that is sent out helping to shorten the days
of tribulation?
It is so. The average people of your world of Shan are good
at heart. The good are in the majority. Those that have a lower
form of thought are but few in comparison to those who have
peace and the love of happiness in their hearts, - the love of their
fellow men. There are many of you who dwell upon Shan who are
beautifully and happily of a spiritual form and who try their utmost
18
to help their fellows and do that which is good in the sight of the
Lord; but those few who discard those wonderful aspirations make
themselves more thoroughly felt because they make a grea:t shiout-
ing and a great noise so that it discards and covers up those grand
and beautiful thoughts that arise from those who are the ohildren
of God.
These others are but young in soul. They will eventually find
that they have the joy of the Lord in their hearts and to them will
come comfort. Then will they try their utmost to help those of their
fellows. But a little while and all will be of great grandeur upon
your world of Shan. Unfortunately for a little while those who shout
and bellow in the wind, those who know but little, will cause trouble
and tribulation, but, by ,the power of love and kindness and tolera-
Uon, all will become beautiful upon Shan and never again will man
depart from the laws of the Almighty Father. Do not be dismayed,
dear ones, when you see within your "daily papers" words of those
many departures from the laws of God, because these are but few
among the many. Remember always that many have aspired unto
the Holy Father and will gain that Light unt:Jothemselves and be
enabled to send it forth unto those others who have little as yet of
the Light of the Spirit.
0 dear children of Shan, you allow to be born upon your planet
many who would not be with you if you had the law of God within
yourselves. You allow those who are not of much account to pro-
duce of those creatures which are of a lower order and but young ,
very young souls . You develop them and protect them and let them
also produce from themselves others who are of even a lower order
You can state this if you desire but you who dwell here and speaH
with me have but little power and your leaders who dwell upon
Shan take not this into their minds or their thoughts. They should
take from those the power of producing others and then all would
develop as they are upon those other worlds where the Lord is the
predominant ruler of all being.
Farewell, dear children. The divine Spirit, that Holy Light be
ever with you. Let the inspiration that comes unto you be developed
and be evolved into words that are as lightnings and will be thrown
forth to those who dwell upon Shan and those who desire the words
from the Spirit. I have great joy in knowing tthat thou followest
the words of my teachings.
NADA
I must come for just a little. You know it makes me feel so
humble when I look at all those wonderful beings that surround us
here. How fortunate we are that they should come to speak with
us. They are still here with us and they all look so very beautiful
and are looking with smiles of love and joy on us. I will say goodbye
for a while and God bless you all.
19
.A.shtarbeulah .Answers Questions
I hear you inquiring about me and so I came to speak to you.
If you desire to ask me any questions, I will answer, if it is desir-
able.
Question: What do you advise us to do Ashtarbeula'.h to increase
our psychic qualities?
You are doing tha,t which you can, I know, dear ones, but you
can also refine yourselves and make your thoughts and your aspira-
tions even higher than they already are. Many of you, dear ones,
take into your physical bodies many things that are not desirable
and it is difficult for us to get past this physical form which you
have and to instill into your minds the thoughts which we would
give to you. Do you not, dear ones, ever sit in meditation and take
the words from tib.ehigher life, those words which we try to give
you? If you would take these words and put them down, then you
would find that yiou were gaining an inspiration from our realm.
Question: Did you once live on the Earth plane, Ashtarbeulah?
No. I have not dwelt in the ,
flesh on the Earth at all. I dwelt on
Venus and have been there several 1
times but before that I dwelt
in another galaxy, that of Agaman, far away from this.
Question: Agaman?
That is· so. Y1
ou have spoken the word. How difficult we find
it to speak the na,mes of places! Yiou see we send a vision to the
instrument; that is how we are enabled to speak your language.
The instrument unconsciously interprets the vision into the langu-
age which is suitable for you to hear. If we were going to another
nation we also would be able to put forth these things to that in-
strument who was being used although she spoke in quite a differ-
ent language. We are able to put the language through many dif-
ferent instruments but not always as correctly as we would desire.
So many aeons have passed since I dwelt on Venus that I have
become quite enabled to speak tJhe many languages of your world
myself. We gain knowledge of the peoples of the many places of
this and other galaxies and learn to understand their thoughts and
their speech.
Question : Where is the spirit of the instrument now , Ashtarbeulah?
The spirit stands aside and we make it quite unconscious for
the moment . At first we took the spirit to many places but now
we find that we just need to displace the entity and step in our-
selves. We gain 'Control of the brain of the ins trum ent. As you
know, the great nerves that come from the brain pass down the
back of the neck to the right hand and control the whole body. Well
it is essential for us to gain control 1
of that because if we did not
we could not put any actions or any words through to you. The
great power that is over the body comes from the brain and only
by gaining control of that can we ensure that we will give you t'hat
which you desire.
Farewell, dear ones. God be with you always.
20
"In My Father's House are Many Mansions"
(.Aminabad 7/9 /59)
I would come now and speak to yiou, I who spoke to you many
long months ago. I am Aminabad who once dwelt in the flesh upon
your Earth as one of tJhe Israelitish race. I was one who came to
speak with those who needed my advice - but they took it not
very often. Ahab, the wicked king, was one who took no notice of
my words and he went forth and came to disaster.
There are so many who divert their way into the wrong path
and because of tihese things much unhappiness is sent unto them
though perhaps not only in that same life. For, my dear ones, thou
knowest that oft thou returneth into the flesh but not always to
dwell upon this place where thou now art. In the heavens ihere are
many places to which you may go. Thou mayest incarnate upon a
star many many light years from this one which you call Earth, or
perhaps upon other nearer places of the hemispheres. Thou mayest
even go into life in some slower system that thou canst not see at
all from this place where thou dwellest, for there are many wonder-
ful things and the creation and the Creator are more wonderful
than thou canst conceive of. Man, as he gains intelligence and
knowledge, will be enabled to go forth to some of tihose nearer
worlds which he will enjoy and be astounded at; but in the physical
being he will never be able to go to the many far places. Thou know-
est that there are enormous and wonderful worlds that are revolv-
ing around other worlds even as in that whic,h thou callest the
. atom which is but as one of the larger systems in miniature. Thou
knowest that, in the atom, particles revolve around an inmost sun
which I have heard that thou callest a nucleus or protJon. Tlhe elec-
trons are as the worlds that surround these many suns (nuclei)
and upon them there can be living entities. You, my dear ones, may
not be enabled to see them because of the intense minuteness but
they are there.
Well, my dear ones, I was speaking about tJhose many wonder-
ful hemispheres which are in your so-called sky. My children, you
cannot see perfectly but often if thou takest thy night glasses and
lookest up into your heavens you will observe as it were a single
light. But if thou wouldst focus thy glasses upon this light and en-
large it thou wilt find that it often divides the single light into sev-
eral discs, not larger but more minute. Thou wilt observe perhaps
that these are several mighty lights thoug,h they have appeared to
you as a single light. They are marvellous and huge globes many
many light years from ea,c,h other and surrounding each of them
are their satellites which revolv;e around them. As thou goest forth,
as thou seest these things, thou wilt observe perhaps often many
of these suns shining unto thee wi1Jha different form of light, some
21
blue, SQme green, some red and some a wonderful lunar shade of
white. These various colours that come from them are caused by
the different forms of gases and metals that are upon these great
and mighty worlds. How wonderful are all these things!
As thou canst understand, my friends, it is not necessary that
all those who dwell in these far distant systems should be built as
thou art. They are made suitable for their environment as thou
knowest. Even thou of your own planet seest various types of crea-
tures each one suited for the elements in which it dwells. And so it
is upon these great and glorious worlds. Some of these worlds are
so enormous and so heavy that thou couldst not live upon them
in your present physical form; because of their great gravitational
force thou wouldst be pressed flat and thou couldst not move from
them. Gravitation is a wonderful power which the Almighty Father
has created so that thou wouldst not fly off thine own habitation.
For, if there were no gravitation whatever, thou wouldst find that
thou wouldst be swept into space. I know that many of you desire
to depart from your own place of habitation and to go forth to
these other dwellings but you will have to learn first of many things.
In outer space there is no gravitation whatever and you would find
that you would gradually become larger and larger and eventually
explode. This happens, for example, when those creatures who
dwell in the depths of the sea are brought upward into the lower
pressure of your atmosphere. They gradually swell and then their
organism bursts and they can live no longer. That, my children,
could become the case witJhman if he took no notice of such things
and went forward into outer space. Where there is no air he cannot
live and where there is no pressure he cannot live. Thou are built
to stand the great pressure of thine own atmosphere. If thou wert
to go forth to these other places thou wouldst find that there were
great dissimilarities between them. Some are ,of light gravitation
and consequently thou wouldst find that if thou wert to try to walk
upon these places thou wouldst leap to great heights and might
cover in one step a mile or even more. There are many things for
thy scientists to consider as yet ere they may go forth into these
places for the Creator made thee each one suitable to thine environ-
ment.
Many imagine that thine animal body is the only kind that is
made in the likeness of the Creator but they are utterly ignorant.
It is the soul and the spirit which is as the Creator, not the dress
that thou wearest. The bodily form must suit the envi11onment of
the place in which it dwells. There are many beings who have in-
telligence whioh is similar or even greater than thine own but who
are utterly dissimilar to you physically. Yet they are not monstro-
sities. Thou wouldst be the monstrosity if thou earnest to dwell
where these ones are. How narrow mankind still is in his views!
He will not advance unfortunately but ultimately the philosophers
22
and those who know better will discard those foolish thoughts
which they now have and will acknowledge that the animal body
which they possess in this world is not suited for other environ-
ments than that in which it now dwells.
I would leave thee and give thee the blessings that can be
brought to thee if thou liftest thyself into tihe Inmost Light, that
Spiritual Essence which is all things. 'Dhe Heavenly Father pours
His love and blessings upon you and keep you ever in His Holy
Light.
Acquisition of Knowledge During the Sleep State
Each night when you come to us you go to places of instruction
to receive information which is sent from the Inmost Source to help
you. There are many all over your world at the present moment re-
ceiving instruction in different forms and differ ,ent ways. Not al-
ways can we actually speak but we can inspire and we can also
control the mind of many people and make them put down upon
1Jhescript those things which we have put into their minds. There
ar,e many many at this present time. As you have been informed,
at this time, many will see visions. Many will hear the harmonies of
the spheres and many will go forth and speak to the people and give
the word to mankind and try their utmost to heal and speak of the
good things 1Jhathave been to man.
Question: Will that be the knowledge they have acquired in their
sleep state, Ashtar?
That is so because continually you come to us. Do not disre-
gard those things which you may remember when you arouse your-
self from that whicih you think is the deepest sleep but try to keep
these things in your mind. I know it is difficult to bring the spiritual
thoughts right into the physical brain and even when you bring
these things they are illusive and fade away very quickly. I would
say that if you would impart these things that you remember at
once upon walking or, if you could write these things down, then
they would stay in the brain of the physical body and you would be
enabled to think of these things.
A Being From a Satellite of Aldebaran Speaks
You peculiar people! You are very peculiar people! You are not
just like me. I have my red fur. You are different. You have not got
these pretty hig,h ears I have.
~uestion: Well, you have come from another planet, have you?
That is so. I come from yonder light, white far away. I came
from Bethel, far away, near Aldebaran. It is one of the worlds which
23
goes round Aldebaran. I am a female being but I am not like you.
I walk on my hind legs and I bend ba·ckwards. I have ears that stand
erect and I am covered witJh nice soft fine fur. You are terribly
naked people!
Question: Well, why do you wear fur?
I have the fur to keep me warm. I need it.
Question: Is it cold at Aldebaran?
It is very cold. A }ot of white - what do you call it? - white dust
all over the place and a lot of things you can see through - a kind
of glass. Is it glass?
Remark: Ice.
Yes. We see right through it.
Question: What has brought you to us please, friend?
I was called to speak to you and so I came.
Question: Who called you?
The man called Adebius came to me and said I should come
down to show you that there are other beings like to yourselves but
with different form.
Remark: You seem to have a lot of intelligence, friend!
I am similar to you within but my physical body is not the
same. I have the same feelings and thoughts and I love and I hate
and I long for many things just the same as you do.
Remark: We in this group do not 'hate.
No. Perhaps you are the nice ones but there are many haters
too in your country and many who have no control of their feel-
ings - less ,even than we have, because we try our best to control
all our beings and to live a life so that all will be ihappy together.
Question: Do you worship the Creator?
We know that there is One but we know also that there are
many others who can intrude themselves and hurt us if we do not
follow the right light. We know that there is a line which we must
follow and that if we diverge to either side of that line then we will
fall into the marshes and will gain much sorrow; for in the marshes
are many unpleasant beings and we must go forward right on the
lig,ht.
Question: Does Jesus visit your planet?
No, not that One, but there was one great one who came to
help us.
Question: Do the beings on your planet fight one another in war?
At times they are just like y,ou. They kill one another and some
of those beings on our planet eat one another the same as on your
planet. There is very little difference except in the shape of us.
We know, we are able to see you. We are brought frequently to
observe your antics. So we know that you do more cruel things
than even we do. But there are many of you also who are trying to
be good just the same as on our own planet. We despise those who
would hurt one another on our planet too and we try to be good. We
24
love our own young as you do but we have more sense in some
ways than you do because we see 1:Jhatour young obey us and do
the things that they should. If not, they go to the dark place where
1:Jheymust learn many things, but we help them as much as we
can. We notice that you on your planet let your young do awful
things. We never see our young doing the terrible things that you
do. Your young snatch things from one another and they - (what
do you call it? ) - steal. Is that the word? Well, our young do not
do that. They are taught to give.
Question: Are your homes underground?
We are on the rocks. We live on the rocks and, if we can find
a comfortable cave to live in, there we dwell because around us is
much cold and snow. We have a coat all over us like you have on
your heads only. It is thick and warm and suited for our world. If
you could only see us! If you could see my family sitting around!
We have learnt the use of the steam that comes out of the earth.
It is warming and helps us very muoh.
Question: How many children have you?
Well, my dear friend, I could not ,count them very well because
I get ten at a time and they come frequently, every - I do not know
how you count your days at all - but every time that the climate
changes I have my little ones in my warm and quiet place which I
have dug out in th~ snow. Under the snow I have my little ones
and when the climate changes again, when the light comes, then
I come out with my little ones and we hunt around. We eat of the
moss that is beneath 1:Jhe
snow which starts into growth when the
light comes around.
Question: Is your planet dark at some periods?
It is very dark at times and then the light comes. There are
many different kinds of places in our world, just as there are in
yours. Some are deep in liquid; some have the snow. Others have
the gum that sticks and we must not go there for we would be em-
bedded and mig,ht not be able bo get again into the light but be
down in the - I don't know what you call it; it is like black sticky
stuff - mud. It goes down very deep and if we get entangled in it we
would find it very difficult. Also we might meet the inhabitants who
are not of a nice character for they would eat us and we would not
get uut of the mud again.
Question: Do you travel from one planet to another?
Only when we are invited to come. It is only now that I have
been brought to speak to you.
Question: How did you travel here?
They put me on the beam of light and told me that it would
be good if I would speak to you. So I am now speaking but they
tell me I must depart in case I give my feelings to this instrument
that I am using and I do not want to do that. Neither do those who
have brought me here . So I must go. God bless you.
25
The Lord of the Flame Speaks
Listen to my voice, 0 ye children of Earth. Open thine ears and
listen to the voice of the speaker. I who came from the Innermost
Life, I who am ever with thee, I who have spoken to many and
who go forward through the Earth speaking to all who will hear
my voice, I have come to thee, 0 children of Earth, to help thee and
to show thee the way that t:Jhoumust follow for thou must hear the
voice. In thy spirit it will appear and those things which thou re -
quirest, those things which thou wilt accept, will be sent to t:Jhee
and given to thee. The words that come from the spiritual realm
to thee must give thee great joy and peace of heart because thou
knowest that thou art not just as thou art at present. Thou art
something much more wonderful, much more Divine and much
purer and greater . Those things that wilt be of great gain to thee
will be given to thee if thou wilt but apply thyself to the higher
realms and wilt bring into t,
hyself thoughts of the higher life. Then
wilt thou praise the heavens. Thou wilt praise the Inmost Source
of Energy from which all these things proceed and which are given
to thee so abundantly.
0 my children of Earth, listen to me. I speak the words from
the Almighty One, those words which thou must obey. If thou de-
sirest to be sinless, it can be given to thee. Only apply thyselves.
Lift up thy soul into the higher realms and those things which des-
troy the spirit, those things which deteriorate the body, will be sent
from thee and will harm thee no more; for only must thou obey
the laws of the Almighty, those laws of right which have been sent
to thee.
Question: Who speaks please?
0 dear ones, I am here with thee . I am one who has spoken
aforetime to thee . I who am the Lord of the Flame am with thee
now and, if thine eye were but open and thou couldst discern me
and couldst see these things which surround thee, thou wouldst
praise the might of the living God who has created thee. Thou are
of Himself and we who are of the Spirit are His servants to do His
bidding. 0 ye children of Earth, obedient thou must be to the laws
,of the Almighty if thou desirest to advance into t;he higher realms.
Much has been given to thee, much thou hast of beauty and of joy
if thou wilt but discern it. If thou wilt but know that these things
are sent to thee! 'l\hou hast thwarted the Divine Law often but you,
my children, have been sent on the way of life. Often your path has
diverted to other ways but still the Divine Source, that One, the
Inmost Energy , has sent us , His messengers, to you so that we may
bring you again into the Higher Life. 'l\hese things that come to
you, these lessons that are given to you, you have brought to your-
selves with your sinful hearts, those hearts that have become dark.
So far from the Divine Source have ye wandered that only by
chastisement can ye be brought again into the way ,of life. Oft the
Divine Father has sent us in love to scourge ye into the path of life.
My children of Earth, if you could but note these things, you would
26
find that the love of God is so intense that ·only as a Father chastises
His children for their own and peculiar good does the Divine One
chastise ye. Many things will come to you, my children of Earth,
many sorrows perhaps which y,ou will take to yourselves as sor-
rows; but if ye but knew it you would find that these sorrows are
for your eternal joy. As you go forward, when you have the voice
calling to you, when you find t!hose inspirations which come to you,
those beautiful words that come from the Inmost Source, th en you
will note that your joy is ineffable and that the ecstasy which you
receive of peace and happiness will be intense .
0 my children, lift yourselves into the Eternal Light. I, the Lord
of t!he Flame, speak to thee and would take thee to the Eternal
Light. As time goes on you will find uhat there will infiltrate into
you who live in the flesh many of those spiritual attributes that are
so necessary and these things that will come to you will raise all
those who dwell upon the Earth into tihe higher realm.
Farewell , my children of Earth. The Eternal Father sends you
all those benefits which are so good for you physically and spiritual-
ly.
Nada Comments:
I must come and speak to you just for a little while. You know
that very bright spirit t1
hat just came here was standing here in all
his flaming lights and if you could have only seen the wonderful
power and the wonderful lights that seem to shoot from him! That
is the only way I can express it because the light was very very
wonderful and mostly it seemed to be in wings of flame. I have
before seen him but he comes not very often to speak with us.
BEING TRUE
From "MESSAGES OF LIGHT, Given in His Name"
"To thyself be true , and thou canst not be false to any man."
Many do not understand the significance of this saying. They
think being true to self means getting for themselves as much as
possible, even if this getting for themselves brings ruin or injures
another. By "self" in the quotation is meant one's Higher Self, the
center of the individual, his God-spark divine.
One cannot be sincerely true to his High-Self, this God within,
this Christ within, without being true to all men. "Love thy neigh-
bor as thy self," the Master said. Loving thy neighbor ye cannot
harm him . Loving thy true High-Self ye cannot harm thyself.
True love is not selfish love, is not self-seeking. True love is of
God; it completely erases foam consciousness the baser motives
of catering to the desires of carnal man. True love puts the interests
of the mate, friend, or neighbor first, and does nothing to injure
these.
Be true to this Higher Self within ye. Be true and it will follow
as inevitably the night the day, and the day the night, that ye will
truly love tJhy neighbor as thy self.
Given by Paul, an Apostle of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus
Christ in His Name. Amen.
27
"Lighted Landing Fields" or "Landing Points"
(Ashtar)
From groups such as yourselves who sit in prayer and who
open themselves unto the higher forces a wonderful light shines
forth and is seen by those who come from the higher spheres. We
note these lights and may descend and gain contacts with them. As
thou knowest, my children, and, as thou hast often been informed ,
thou hast only to lift thyselves into this light and thou wilt gain
much and thou wilt also be in contact with that Divine Light; for
it descends upon these landing points. There are many in many
countries who await the Presence and who would gain contact
with tihose who are on the spiritual side of life. How easy, my chil-
dren, it is and how happy are those hearts who gain this contact
with the Divine. Dost thou not feel thy heart lift, dost thou not
feel an inflow of the Presence of the Divine when thou liftest thy-
self up into the Divine Light? From each of thy places of worship,
from each of thy temples there goes forth that wondrous fluid
which is sent forward into the Eternal Light and becomes one with
itself. If within these habitations there is love and beauty and the
thoughts for ·all mankind then this is acceptable to the Eternal
Father, He who created all things for Himself.
A Conversation With Nada the Doorkeeper
(1/6/ 59)
I must speak just for a little while. Of course you know that I
am only Nada.
QuesUon: How is Mary, Nada?
She is getting on very well. She is a dear little black baby girl
and is going to become something very wonderful because her
mother and father are great in the way of the spirit. Although they
are black tihey are very spiritual in their thoughts and will help
Mary. She will become a great leader . Her father is a great chieftain
who will send her to be educated in the universities of the West
that she may be able to instruct her own people in all kinds of ways.
The women of these races are coming forward just as the
women of your own race have done and they will give to you all
much upliftment for the female is inclined to be more spiritually
perfect than the male who has so much interest in other fields and
so many different forms of amusement which are not of the spirit.
It is better for the mothers of the races to be of that form of char-
acter because they are tihe mothers of the world.
Of course, Mary is right •
out of the spirit life now unless she
28
comes at night sometimes when she is asleep. But she is not up to
that yet because the brain of the child is still very immature. The
brain has to grow up and become interpenetrated with tJhe spiritual
brain and it takes a little while. It is all very peculiar is it not?
Question: Do we see you when we come over at night?
Often we see and speak with you and take you to different
places but unfortunately you only now and again get a little peep
in a dream and it comes in a very peculiar way.
Question: What did you do on Earth, Nada?
I was just at school and I had only left school when I got con-
sumption and died. It was not very long before I came here. But 0
I don't mind! I love it! It is much nicer here than where I was
before. I am having a really lovely time in a beautiful place.
Question: You don't want to come back to Earth, Nada?
0 no, no! Did you ever hear any of us wanting to come back to
Earth? It is so lovely where we are and it is so easy to live. You
know often it was hard to live in the flesh. There were many wor-
ries and troubles which we could not always overcome but now we
do not have any of that sort of thing. We have lots of fun.
Question: What do you really do?
Well, I do so many things. This is only one of the things I do.
Question: Do you live in a house?
Well, I don't know just now. I stay in the institution. It is beau-
tiful and there are a lot ,of other girls with me. We have a lovely
time together and we are being taught by tJhehigher ones so many
things. This is one of the things that I have to do and afterwards
I am hoping that I will be able to take charge of some of the chil-
dren to teach them . You know, I love the children. They are so
sweet and of course they have to be taught many things because
after all they are only cihldren still. Even the fact of losing your
body does not mean that you have altered very much; you still
have to g,o on. The fact of dying does not make you very good or
very bad . You are just the same.
Question: What food do you eat, Nada?
Well we can get anything we like if we fancy it but I don't
feel so interested in food now. There are so many other interesting
things to do that eating seems to be past. You see my spiritual body
does not need that kind of thing and the knowledge that I get is
food for me now. It is all mind here, you know, and you do not need
nourishment for the physical body, but you do need nourishment
for the mind.
Question: Do you go in for deep brea thing ?
No. I don't do very much of that either because you see I am
not a physical being. I am a spirit and I do not need all those kinds
of things.
Question: How do you dress, Nada?
Well, I will describe what I am wearing now. It is a pale blue
robe that goes over my shoulders and comes right down to nearly
29
between my ankles and knees and I have a belt around my waist and
part of it is thrown over my shoulder to confine the material so
that it fits well.
Question: Do the teachers wear blue robes?
Some do and some don't. Many of them wear grey or yellow
and it depends upon the things that they are teaching at the time.
Some wear the same shade of blue as I am wearing but there are
many others of us who wear blue of all different shades. I like
that soft pretty blue that I am now wearing. It is not like your sky
and it is not dim; it is a softer colour, and it has a bit of grey in it,
I think that makes it not too blue.
Question: What is the material of your gown?
It is made from the strands of the air. I must go. God bless you
all.
PEACE
From "MESSAGES OF LIGHT, Given in His Name"
(Vision: And Peace gushed forth from t>hemountain side like
a mighty river, and I plunged therein and bathed my head and face
and arms and ihands and let the waters thereof flow over me, until
all the parts of my inner being were fused into one harmonious
whole and became integrated in Peace.)
The Lord's Peaee flows forth from Its Source with tremendous
power at all times for man to contact and become at Peace with
himself and the World.
But man builds his own inner turmoil and sends this out in
thought forms throughout tihe world and the unaware bathe in
this turmoil rather than in the Father's River of Peace, and so
turmoil grows apace and Peace is not felt.
Ye, who have once contacted the Peace 0f the Father tha t
passeth all understanding, can watch thy thoughts more constant-
ly and see to it that thou dost send forth this Peace of the Father ,
rather than the world's turmoil. Also, having once sensed that
Power of His Peace, it is thine own fault if ye let it go from the e
no matter what the circumstances.
Peace within , sent forth through thought to the world without,
is a mighty weapon in the service of the Lord. And then think ye
not that thought sent out is of no avail. It availeth much. Send out
in thy thoughts the feeling and inner sensing of the Migihty River
of Peace of the Father that passeth all understanding and ye will
know that ye broadcast His Power for Good. Amen .
Given in the presence of the Angel of Peace and in the Name
of the Lord Jehovwh God by Prince Michael.
30
~1
A. Tibetan Lama Speaks On the Human Aura
(13/7 /59)
The Light dwells ever with thee. 0 dear friends , I have not
been with you before. My name is Rinshaw and I have come to
speak to you of sundry things which you desire to know. I will
inform thee about that Light - the aura as you call it -which sur-
rounds and denotes the condition of the physical body. When the
coloration is grey it denotes lack of physical health or indicates that
the person has an objectionable character - for those ·of objection-
able character have many unpleasant colorations surrounding
them. We of the spirit and you also who can get a vision of this
aura are enabled to know whether the condition of health is high
or low. We know, too, those ones of whom we must be wary and
those in whom we can confide. You who dwell in the flesh have this
power also to a certain extent for often when you meet one you
are repelled and you know not why. That is a warning. If you had
your third eye opened you would see that the aura of such a one
was of an undesirable colour. If you would try ynur utmost to be
aware of these things and open your eyes then you would never be
taken advantage of by any other beings for their auras would warn
you.
You have ,often wondered why you are attracted to some more
than to others . Well, my dear fri~nds, that is because their auras
are like your own or of a coloration which attracts yours. If your
men of medicine would but open their third eye they would very
easily be enabled to diagnose the troubles that afflict the human
frame. Wihere you have an ailment in the physical body there forms
a greyish patch which infiltrates often through the brighter and
more beautiful colours within your aura. This essence which you
send forth from yourselves can also cause inflictions to others who
may be near you for if you have a hasty temperament and send
forth flashes of vivid red into the atmosphere then it can cause a
rousing of the disposition of others who are surroundin g you.
You have heard of mass psychology, my dear friends, and how when
a mob gets together they gradually become so intense on the un-
pleasant things whicih they desire to do that often even those of a
gentle disposition show an unpleasant attitude. So a mob of any
kind which has become infiltrated with the same sort of colouring
could cause considerable trouble. These things oft have happened
in mankind. He is a very peculia r creature and often when men
get together who have much of the same attitude towards the
physical life then they think as one and give the impression of
being twin souls. But antagonism can be flashed forth also and
threiugh the aura it can become antagonistic to another. You feel
these things though you understand them not; but hate begets
hate, love begets love and so on, through the emanation from the
aura. You, my friends, have somewhat of the same coloration in
31
your auras. Some have not perhaps as bright an aura as others
owing to physical disability but that can be helped by trying your
utmost to draw to yourselves the Inmost Energy. To you it will come
if you so desire it and the Light that infiltrates from your own aura
will gradually become as the aura of the Inmost Energy and they
will cling together. This Source of Energy will gradually flow into
your own aura so that eventually it will become perfect and beauti-
ful and pure.
We of the spirit are fortunate that we can see these things but
you in your ignorance, dear ones, you imagine tJhat you have a cer-
tain drawing power tJo others who are of the same kind as your-
selves, but it is the flow of the aura into the other. Your aura is as
it were an enveloping light all around you, larger at your head
where the mind is and tapering down to the feet. The auras of some
people extend only a few inches from the physical body while others
may extend for several feet. The possessors of these wide auras
can send forth power to others because their aura can overlap
those who are near enough to feel the influence.
We who see much go to the meetings of worship where many
raise their emanations upwards tJothe Divine One. From them there
comes one beautiful mass which is mainly of a lovely blue kind and
we see this bright glorious emanation surging upward into the
atmosphere and surrounding all those who have the same object
in view. From these places of worship we see this Light ascending
and it is gathered and is become permeated with Divine Light which
comes from the Inmost Energy.
I, my friends, am but a lama of Tibet. I am even yet in the
physical body and have lived many years and I can come to speak
to you at times. Farewell, my friends, I have many things to do.
Igo.
The Power Within Man
Do you realize, my children, that you have within yourselves
great powers which you can use if you desire to put them to the
best? It is not necessary for man to labour in pain and suffering if
he so desires to illuminate himself and draw to himself those greater
powers.
Question: Where does he draw them from please, Ashtar?
From the Inward Siource of all, from that Energy which is ever
around you, that Radiant Energy that is so wonderful and which
surrounds you ever and from which you need never depart. Draw it
into yourselves and that which will be given to you will be of great
wonder. You have no need to have pain and suffering.
Question: Do we draw it in with the Holy Breath?
With the Holy Breath you can draw these things. Look to-
wards the rising sun in the morning. Open your windows and draw
32
in this Breath of Life which is yours but for the asking. Also in the
evening hour open yourselves to the Light and ever you will gain
that great and wonderful thing which you desire , that Light that
comes to you from the Inmost Source, that wonderful Energy
which ever surrounds you. Draw into yourselves these wonderful
things in deep and mighty breaths that there may come to you
healing and joy. That Spirit which you yourselves possess will find
this Inward Light and you will gather to yourselves all that is most
desirable.
When the Call Comes
(.Ashtar 27/ 7/ 59)
It is put into the hearts of those who still dwell in the flesh
that they should treasure their earthly existence and endeavour to
keep the physical body in a desirable state free from sickness and
.sorrow so that it may continue to be used by the spirit. Tlhis desire
mus t be kept in your hearts for, if it were not , many would leap
forward from the flesh that they might go to the higher life. This
would not be advisable because you ihave entered physical life for
the purpose of furthering your development. But , my dear ones, you
know that you will not always dwell in the flesh and when the time
comes that y,ou are ready for the higher life it is not desirable that
your way should be stayed even though that Wonderful One could
heal your body. To each of you, at the suitable time , there will come
the great call and you must answer it. Then will you go forward
to greater joy and gain a finer and more beautiful body in which
you will be able to function to much greater purpose than now.
There is nothin g to despair of, my children, when the call comes.
Many, of course, who come to the spiritual realm are unprepar-
ed and are afraid for they cannot imagine that they have departed
from the physical life and know not where they are. But it is our
duty to comfort them and to direct them to the places which are
most suited for their evolvement . It is our duty, too , to send for
their dear ones who have passed over before them so that they may
meet them and know that they are still with them. How delightful
to us it is to see the many happy reunions that occur in this won-
derful place of light!
Remark: How perfect the Divine organization is, Ashtar! We often
think and remark upon it.
It is most wonderful! The Creator of all knows all and has
arranged these things to the utmost. Let no one give you the word
that there is no Creator of the universe. He dwells with you and
around you, is in the midst of all. He is the Light of the universe,
a Wonderful Being who knows all, hears all, sees all - a Spirit of
purity, glory, honour and power. How wonderful is this One, how
worthy of praise! And, my dear children of Shan, you are all of
Him, you belong to Him, you can speak to Him and you can hear
His voice if you so develop yourselves.
33
When you come into the spiritual realms there will come into
your minds all those things that you have done and those things
which you have left undone while in the physical body. The thought
of those things that you have left undone but would have done will
be to you of great sorrow while many things that you have done of
which you think little, things which have been for the glory of the
Divine Energy, will enlarge and become of greater Light and you
will have much joy and will go forward to that place to whioh your
good works have entitled you.
Question: Are all these works done and left undone recorded in
the aura?
Not altogether in the aura are these things recorded but upon
that recording of the world, that part of those records which are
kept forever in the ether.* Nothing, no act that ye do, is omitted;
all things are recorded, even the consequences of those things that
you should have done but left undone, omissions which perhaps you
have not regarded as sins but appear so in the eyes of the Almighty.
All your acts and omissions are recorded and found for your sorrow
or for your justification. ·
A Message of Comfort From the Angel Azrael
Blessings upon you, my children, you who dwell in the flesh!
I Wl()Uld
speak to you, I who am Azrael. I have spoken to you before
my children, you who some day will meet me and whom I will take
in my arms. Fear me not, my ·children of earth, for I am gentle. I
love you and will take you to the footstool of the Almighty Father
where you will dwell in peace and all will be well with you. 0 my
children, I take you from the sorrows of the earth, from those
troubles and sicknesses that afflict your body. I discard it from
you and take you into my gentle keeping. You call me the Angel of
Death but that I am not for I take you in my keeping and give you
everlasting life. All will be well wit:Jhyou when I enfold you in my
arms and take you to the footstool of the Almighty Father, who
will pour His blessings and His benefits upon you.
0 Eternal Father, Creator, keep us we pray and help these
Thy children. Let them fear nought. 0 God Eternal, let them realize
that Thou art wit:Jhthem, that Thou hast sent Thine angels to keep
them and guard them from the beginning of their earthly life to
the end. How happy they will be when they realize that they will
gain eternal life and that Thou hast them in Thy keeping. We who
are Thy servants will help them and t:Jheywill find that nought can
injure them, for we surround them with Thy Eternal Light. 0 God
Creator help us, we pray!
A Comment on Azrael by Mary, the Doorkeeper
Azrael is the great angel. He is so beautiful, so wonderful, so
lovely! It is hard for me to describe that one. He comes with the
billows of light flowing from him. He has the most wonderful
34
colours and the most beautiful face that you ever could imagine.
You need not fear when Azrael comes to y•
ou for he will come to
you all in time - he comes to all who are of the flesh. He came for
me and, though I was young and feared death, I was overjoyed when
Azrael came and took me t:o himself and brought me into this lovely
home where I have dwelt ever since; for the peace that came to my
heart was most wonderful and to you it will come too. In his train
he brings those whom you have loved and who have loved you , for
they also will come to welcome you. It is most marvellous and when
we have all lived our life in the flesh and have stayed there as long
as it is necessary for us to learn those things which we must do,
then the Almighty Father sends word to Azrael that it is time for
us to leave our fleshly tabernacle and come to the spirit plane. So
the great Azrael gathers those whom the individual has loved and
comes with them to take that one to himself and bring him into the
Eternal Light. I have spoken and I think we have really had suf-
ficient for this night, so after we say a little prayer for help and
health and happiness I think we will go.
0 God Eternal, pour Thy blessings upon this group, these who
know that Thou art the Eternal Father. Let us O God be near Thee.
Let us know that Thou sendest forth to us Thy beams of Light
from Thy Eternal Heart, that love, that glory, that beauty where
Thou dwellest. We would know, for 'Dhou art the Centre of all
things. Nothing passes from the worlds without Thou knowest.
From Thee there comes the ray to each individual one, to each one
who dwells upon these many globes, for Thou O God art all. Thou
hast a plan O Father for each one of us so that we will come to be
in the Eternal Blome. Amen.
Contributions From Other Groups
Love - Human and Divine
(Source .Anonymous)
This is an inquiry into the nature of Love. All recognizes its
power; every human desires it. It is the ground work of all happi-
ness as ultimately the quality of all true success. The mightiest
force in the Universe - it is so instinctive in life - so far reaching
and comprehensive in its action that it has been described as the
foundation quality of Divinity - God is Love.
That is the root of the matter. Love is the ever active re-crea-
tive propulsive power in the Universe which inspires the movement
of atoms, and men proportionately. That which a man loves he
cannot really be separated from; that which a man loves he must
inevitably reach. The bonds thus forged are unbreakable, bringing
souls together to learn still deeper and purer reaches of love to-
gether.
In the first stages of human development the love power is
largely compounded with self interest. A man loves but mostly for
35
what the beloved object brings to him. His love is largely projected
love of self.
The greatest love makes no demands - it is conditionless and
free. Perhaps it loves the more tenderly the more weakness is ap-
parent in the beloved. The Master, Jesus Christ, can love the most
abandoned wretch because such a soul has so great a need of un-
derstanding love. True love is loving in spite of all because with
Divine Intuition it sees not what man is but what he may become.
To Love is to share our life with another, trying to help him at tJhe
level where he stands not from our own. In the school of life in this
world we slowly learn to love and all that it means because there is
really no other lesson to learn, and as the Love-power in us grows
the field of its activities widens and deepens.
Love takes on different characteristics according to its direc-
tion. Love looking up to those above is Adoration Love; Love look-
ing down on ignorance and sin is compassion; Love between equals
is comradeship, co-operation, fellowship. We adore our loved one's
strength, we compassionate his weakness and hand in hand with
him we know the joy of mutual service, effort side by side. The
Love Power takes on different aspects with the character of the
relationship held to the beloved one. Thus the protective love of
Fatherhood - the cherishing Love of Motherhood - the companion-
ship of brotherly or sisterly love - the comradeship, the staunch
loyalty of friendship - tJhese are variations of Love according to the
way 1
of approach provided in life to souls between whom a bond is
forming. The most peculiar aspect of all, because fraught with
unique possibilities is the love relationship of husband and wife.
In this an element comes strongly into play which is more or less
latent in any other and is concentrated here for a very unique and
tremendous purpose. So important is this and so badly misunder-
stood tJhat the subject requires very patient elucidation.
Let us think then we who love: How do we love? Is our love
of self transformed into the likeness of its angelic counterpart,
or is it that desire to serve - that longing for the good of our be-
loved which is true love? If our love for our beloved is mostly self
pleasure in his presence, love to us, that is the smallest way of Love.
Not that being loved is wrong. Even Jesus Christ took pleasure in
the love of His Disciples and even God is glad when He is loved. But
as the Love-Power grows it is more and more glad to do the
loving, more and more desirous to serve the incre ase the other's
highest good. Do we Love? or do we love being loved only?
The selflessness of our loving may also be tested by the lessen-
ing amount of pain that physical separation brings; by the stead-
fastness of our loving when that separation is long continued.
When love entirely escapes the clinging bonds of self it becomes a
greater love, it is pure and free and is no longer human but Divine.
When the Christ consciousness is born within the heart ma:n
36
begins to love as God loves and to live in the joy and peace which
passes human understanding. Drawn by Love through every stage
of loving he finds himself a Radiator and transcriber of Love in ser-
vice forever. To love as man, makes us ihappy now. To love as God
is bliss unspeakable.
God who is love is most manifest in Jesus Christ and He was
most highly exalted by virtue of His peculiar office and powers. We
know Him as the Christ without. But the same seed of Love and
Life immortal lies in every human heart. On its growth and increas-
ing power depend the happiness and well-being of men. This is
the Christ within whose development is stimulated, drawn out, by
the contemplation and following of the teachings of the Christ
without.
What is the God in us but the Love Power in us? The immortal
Beauty that finally conquers everything. Hence whosoever be-
lieveth in Love shall not perish but ultimately gain conscious Eter-
nal Life.
Through the whole universe the Love Power of God works
that inherent attractive force which is over drawing together, uni-
fying, organizing, and when it has succeeded, mig,htily and sweetly
ordering all things.
In the lowest realms of nature it keeps atoms and molecules as
well as suns and planets revolving in harmonious relationships.
Sometimes as its negative pole it acts as repulsion and the great
mystery of Hate is; that is the Lo:ve Power reversed and therefore
convertible into Love. Note this with an enemy who is made a
friend. The love is strong in proportion to the previous hate. But
human love interests us most of all. Human 1'ove means life and
joy; human hate unhappiness and death. How shall we purify and
·expand our powers of living? By meditating on and practicing
lo'Vingwatchfulness, helpfulness, service; by seeking out that which
is admirable, lovable, beautiful in all things; by looking ever up-
wards and consecrating love by dedication and worship; by striving
as much as possible to eliminate the thought of self; asking for no
return, looking for no gratitude. If we can do this we will bring to
birth a power which will hereafter divinise and redeem our souls.
So, .friends, when we know of the mighty Power of Love we
can bring it more and more into our lives, and greater still by giving
it forth we bring it forth in others. If you have a friend who is
antagonistic towards you, you will find the barriers of hate or dis-
like will fall away - you will soon begin to sense that love has over-
come. The great teaching of the Power of Love is what Jesus came
to earth to teach. If men would only cultivate that Love in their
hearts there would be a way out of all life's difficulties.
It is a parent's duty to instill into the minds of the child of the
wonderful personality of Jesus ever holding before him the example
37
he should follow. Let him know th at Perfect Love casteth out fea r.
Let the Bible story book be an open book in the home. Let us rea-
son with our children what Christ would have done in every prob-
lem that presents itself to the young mind. We would have more
tolerance, m;ore love, more patience, more forgiveness in our heart s.
To have the mind of Christ let each one of us say over and over
again until it becomes a part of us: "Divine Love fills my mind and
thrills every cell in my body with its Perfect Life."
This living the Ufe of Love does not mean the living of a pious
or sanctimonious life; it means a joyousness and Peace and the
living of a richer and a fuller life - a life well lived.
CRACE
(Hawkes Bay Circle )
All beings are divinely conceived in the Mind of God, but few
there be who express the fulness of their divinity. He but exists
whose life is motivated only by outer, or material things. He lives
who obeys the urges of the self-divine. The difference in the two
states is like light and darkness; one soul bears witness to the inne r
radiance, the other bears witness likewise but to the lack of spirit-
ual understanding.
That whioh is called "Grace" is a state of being permanently
expressing the qualities of divinity - purity of mind, kindness of
heart, good will of purpose, selfless service, toleration and always
compassion towards the less enlightened, never condemnation, but
love and ever present example towards good. The Forces of Grace
are legion - the Springs of the Life Divine inexhaustible in the
outflow of power and with this Knowing - this supreme mark of
kinship with the All Good or life force within, man can and does
manifest the fulness of life as it should be lived.
Why hover between the two states - between mere existence
or true living - when the acceptance or rejection is a persona l
choice? No good can come from persuasion by another howeve r
good the intentions of a self-appointed teacher, except the recipien t
be attuned to the way of life as lived by those who have ascended
beyond limitation. The only way of inner unfoldment is through
the desire within to move in harmony with Law - fixed immutable
and eternally sustained by the Law Giver. The natural outcome
of interior harmony of a life so lived in constant diligence to sel.f-
improvement brings the life-forces of the spirit into the soul and
the sequence is grace - or divine oneness with man-in-God an d
God-in-man.
,;
There are no by-paths towards the summit of this achievemen t "
but only a straight onward ever upward glorious dawning con-
sciousness of the truth of Self and God, without division and where
all other souls as units in the life sustaining grace mingle and
merge and all are united within the Love Supreme - eaoh seeming-
ly separate unit an indispensible link with the unbroken chain
38
which is never uncoupled but remains united - unsevered by time
or circumstance throughout eternity's march to perfection through
grace for all men. This is the only way of life; all else is but poor
imitation. It need not take eternities of so-called time to have the
inner realization of this truth. It already is. Man has but to
recognize the self-of-God and live it in time's allowance of the
necessary period, long or short, to expr ess divinity while yet clothed
in the mortal body. There is much to gain and nothing to lose by
this Knowing for it can be better accomplished in the mantle of
flesh than later in the finer vehicles not designed for purging the
earth dross although even in the more rarified vehicles of the Self,
there is always the refining ·of tJhe mind which is the storehouse of
soul memory which is everlasting.
Blessed souls of Earth encased in the dense vehicle of flesh,
"Let your light so shine before me, who see your good works and
glorify your Father whicih is in heaven." And as Heaven is within -
a state of consciousness - the light which shines before men is your
own contribution to truth within. You do glorify your God-within
by self expression of the laws of your being and you partake of, and
participate of, the grace which enables the character so that the
inner radiance becomes the outer radiance - the glorification of
life lived as one who Knows tJhe Truth which has set him free.
Thoughts are things vibrating life currents of energy in the
Etheric stratosphere surrounding the Earth. Minds in tune can
receive the rays through their own receptive minds. Thus it is,
man and the Masters of Wisdom have the daily bread which is
sustenance from planes transcending the octaves of the planes
inferior.
Blessings indeed abide with you who make record of our pass-
ing and keep the temple within ever receptive. Few there be who
inwardly hear the soundless harmonies of spiritual life-waves and
to all such whose organism is sensitively attuned to the thoughts of
the Inner Dwellers we say our thanks, in like manner - silent
soundless and in Peace Siupreme. It matters not who we are - only
that we are. Let that concern you only which shall help you all
towards your great destiny as servers in the Vineyard of Life.
Peace.
Oh Light within the sleeping breast,
Radiate thine inner glow,
To shed by thy Divine Behest,
Its Grace to men of Earth below.
39
Further Teachings by Sol-Ashtar
(Sept.1959)
Good evening Universariuns and friends of Universarius. We
are coming to you this evening on the new frequencies which we
have been transmitting to you. We come first tonight to tell you
about what Universarius means. You have been given this word
to use in your associations. What is the meaning? UNVIDRSARIUS
is the oneness, the allness, the oneness of music; the oneness of all
things that are contained within the universal C
'osmos which is the
body of the Creator which is the contents of all that He has created.
It is the meaning of all that is, of all that ever was or ever shall be
This is SOL-ASTAR from the constellation of ANTARES who ha?
volunteered to be your teacher in this great movement.
Now toni ght we would give a little of the historic development
cf your planet, not as it pertains to the past, but something that
you should know. It shall pertain to cycles - the cycles that have
been on your planet, the cycles that have come and gone yet as they
pertain to the present enfoldment of your earth to its fullness and
into the Operation Deliverance which is now at hand. Know that
there must be upon your planet a reconstruction in order that the
spiritual unfoldment of its people shall be completed. You have
wondered perhaps why it has been necessary in times past that
your planet should go through these physical changes .
Let us ask you the question why can you not be ushered into
the Aquarian and Kosman Age without a transformation of the
physical surface of your earth? Let us answer this question briefly
as we kno w it. First of all, there is a law in the universe that stat ,es
that all must be in harmony, all must be in unison for the higihest
manifestations of the laws of the Cosmos. Therefore it is absolutely
necessary that in times past your planet has gone through its tur-
moil, its change of surface and direction aspects which bring abou t
and have brought about in times past , a reorientation, so to speak,
of the values of life, of your solar system and the basic laws upon
which it operate s and upon which human life is based.
So know that the things which are to come are a part of th e
Cosmic Plan and must be directed unto your dwelling place in ·order
that the higher spiritual development may take place through the
people upon its surface.
We have time only to give a brief outline of some of the thing s
that are transpiring upon your planet. We would give you this as
briefly as possible. There are some things which are in your minds
and which we would like to tell you about and which would be in-
teresting to you, and which we must have you know before you can
comprehend the entire picture that is presented to your minds by
all of those who come to you from the realms of Cosmic Light.
40
You have observed perhaps that the space craft so-called
which have been coming to your planet have diminished of late.
We are talking of the actual sightings or the actual visitations. In
the year which has just passed, that is the year 1958, the greatest
activity in your history was manifest by those of our command and
of the ASHTAR COMMAND who were preparing and tabulating
the record which must go to the record centre before any operation
of a major nature can take place so that in the year 1959 which
you are now in, the actual sightings of our craft have been dimin-
ished by a great margin. You have been wondering about this and
wondering if we have deserted you.
No, on t1
he contrary, our activities have been remarkably
changed from one of physical visitation to one of spiritual unfold-
ment as is now being beamed to you and has been in the past.
Let us give you, if you can comprehend in your finite mea-
surement of your inspiration, that which we have been doing upon
your planet. The vast number of so-called "flying saucers", (you
have many names for tihem, "UFO's", "space craft",) have been
coming to you in the past year in the quantity of upwards of 30
million which we have had in your atmosphere. These have been
enumerators of your planet. What do we mean by enumerators?
They have been taking a census - a census of your brothers and
sisters, a census of your physical equipment, a census of your
mental ability, stability, physical worth, so to speak, and all of
these have been transmitted through a central point. This central
point through which these communications and these records have
been beamed, know-and this will come perhaps as a surprise-
but we want you to know this because it is very important in tihe
future of your activities. The CENTER upon which the records
have been converged is the asteroid which you know as CERIDS.
This is close to the other asteroid upon which your beloved ESU or
JESUS, as some prefer to call Him, is now stationed.
Know that He is not alone upon this plateau. There are hun-
dreds of the Ascended Masters with Him there. We will name only
a few - St. Germain, Moses, Elias and Enoch who are now work-
ing upon the records which have been transferred to this place.
These records which are converged upon this plateau are assimilat-
ed, tabul ated and run through human machines, similar to those
of your so-called Univac , except that they are human in all re-
spects and we do not require in our civilization or upon our essen-
tial activities machines of this type. We have developed much great-
er assimilation of data and knowledge by thought forms, by thought
wave and by the concentration of knowledge upon a pinpoint of
recording which is far beyond your imagination.
After these records ihave been assembled, they are c·orrelated
as to their general significance and general dissertations and then
they are transmitted in condensed form to the plateau of ARRO,S
where they are further looked upon by those who have in charge
41
the Operation Deliverance of your planet. So know children of the
Light that all of your thoughts, all of your Earth actions, all that
you are thinking, all that you are doing, all of the evil-so-called as
you call it - although we have told you there is no evil, that evil
and good is only relative - and all of this is being transmitted and ,;
tabulated to us so that we shall know upon these plateaux. These
are not the only ones but I have given you this information that
you might be able to understand more about why our activity is
directed into certain phases at one time and to certain phases at
another time.
We also have many more things to tell you about, but we will
reserve them to some future time. We will leave you with the
thought that we will give .you information very shortly as to the
past cycles of your planet. Know now that there is emerging in
your oceans on one side the continent of Atlantis which is now
approximately ten thousand feet above the level of the ocean floor.
This will rise in a short time and will be the first to make its ap-
pearance. Not at the place where the largest peak is now manifest,
but a short distance away another will rise at a short time much
more rapidly than the one that is coming up now.
We will tell you about the cycles of the past; we will tell you
about the rise and fall of Lemuria, or as you have many names for
this continent: MU, WHAGA, PAN and others that have been
given unto it. We will tell you about Atlantis and we will go far
beyond these two and tell you about the seven cycles which preced-
ed these two which you have in legend which have been miscon-
strued in some instances, but upon whioh you have a great deal
of information. Most of it is true, but some is not particularly auth-
entic. Ho we will give you at another time more about the past
of your planet so that you may be able to come up to the present
time in regard to those things which must transpire and take place
in order that the travail of your planet may not be too great.
One more point that we would give you tonight. Oh friends! -
and this is important to you because you have been much concern-
ed about and you have discussed it and even some of our brothers
of space have discussed it with you - that is your concern about the
so-called retreats which you are planning and which you have
thought to revert to in times of stress. Read your Scripture about
the three loyal sons SHADRACH, Mechack and Abedneg ·o who
were cast into the fiery furnace. There was no scorching flame
which touched them. There was with them a FOURTH figure
which was of great brilliance and great power and this FOURTH
figure will be with you when the fiery furnace comes to your planet.
So be not concerned my children about the place where ye shall go,
for ye shall be taken up or left. You shall be perhaps in the midst of
the fiery furnace, but it shall not scar you, it shall not sear you,
..
•
it shall not touch you because you have the promise of your Scrip-
tures. You have the promise of all the sacred books if you will
read them correctly. They all tell you the same story that you are
projected into this lower region, and if you will project your
thoughts into the higher echelons of space, into the higher etheric
realms, you s1
hall be protected from all harm whether it may be
now or whether it may be in the future. So be not concerned about
these places that you are to prepare for they are only temporary.
Yes, we will give you instructions when the proper time comes
which is not too far away. Be not concerned with them at the pre-
sent moment. Be concerned with giving out the information to
those who will receive it, the information which you have received.
We would give you one more point for telling whether or not
the messages which you are receiving are authentic and are com-
ing from us as we have given them to you. If you are told to keep
any of the messages secret which are given to you know then that
they are messages from the lower planes. We have no secrets in
the Cosmic Realms of the Universal because all is open for all to
understand and all to see. There is within the Book of Life which
is the open book before you now, and you have only to read and
turn its pages, so that you will understand and see the glory and
the Light that comes from the Cosmic realms. You have only to
attune your consciousness to these cosmic realms so that you may
see for yourself.
You do not need these channels, you do not need this Light
for it shines within your soul. There is nothing within the Cosmos
that is hidden from you if you will open your eyes, open your ears
and your mouth to give out that which you receive. So hold it not
back my dear children. If you have received anything that is of
value in this great Age, this cosmic development which we are about
to bring to your planet, you are not doing your duty if you hold it
unto yourselves. Tthis book that we have opened up for you will be
a brighter book, it will have a star upon its pages. It will have the
Star of Bethlehem above the sacred shrine upon which we will
give you these messages. He shall open your eyes and your ears
also and you shall hear and understand that which you do not
understand at the present time. All will receive; not just these
channels, not just those who have been seeking and working with
us from the so-called outer space, but every person who is attuned
to the cosmic consciousness will receive the messages that we have
to give them. So there are no secrets in the Cosmos. If you are told
to keep anything secret, or if you are told to keep it to yourself,
know that it is from the lower echelons of space. Know that there
are some who are trying to interfere with your development work;
but they mostly come from your planet. For we have cleaned the
heavens of most ·of the spirits. We have been working in conjunc-
tion, not only with the ASHTAR COMMAND but the High Raised
Angel who is now in charge of your cosmic development in the
43
heavens surrounding your planet. You would be surprised if you
knew the name of this cosm ic being. We will not give this to you
at the present time. There is a reason. Some of you would not accept
it and some of you would whisper it upon your tongues and it would
be perhaps a wagging thing which would do more harm than good.
Know that there are three - as you have been given the Trini ty
before. There is always a Trinity of Life. There will always be a
trinity of life; the material, tJhe mental and the spiritual which is
always upon you and upon which you cannot exist were it not for
these three things .
We are working together and know that the Great Day will
dawn before you know that it is here; but we will let you know
when it shall start, and when it shall be time for you to gather
together to any place of safety. Be not concerned about these
things.
Now we have given you many things which we wanted you to
know and we will give you more as time goes on. We cannot give it
to you all at once because you cannot assimilate it, and we do not
have the time to give it t:o you. So now my beloved ones, we will
give you an opportunity as this is the first time that we have come
to this channel. We are grateful for this channel that he has given
over his entire consciousness to us and has resolved that he shall
not be afraid because we have given to him greater glory in this
thing than he could imagine that he has ever seen.
We will give at this time an ·opportunity for a very short time
if there are any questions upon the things which we have touched
upon, we will be very happy to answer them very briefly; but the
time is running out and you must make them brief if it is possible.
We will answer a few questions now if you have them to ask of us.
Question: Should we make some preparation for these retreats
such as food or buildings? Shall we begin now?
My beloved ones , you have received this inspiration, you have
received this instruction even from our brothers of space, so we
shall not refute that which has been given to thee; but what we
want to do tonight was to assure you that this was not your prin-
ciple activity at this time. This will be given to you at a future time
and you will be instructed and given more specific instructions as
to the place, what you will need and what you will need to take to
these retreats. These are in some places necessary; but be not
concerned until we give you certain instruction . There are those
who have been selected to give you these instruction .s. We will
not be able to give you this specific information; so follow the in-
structions as they have been given to you, if these instructions
have been specific. Do not emphasize or go to extremes upon this
phase of your Operation Deliverance at this particular time. It will
be given to you in due time.
Question : Where are you speaking from?
44
At the moment I am stationed in a so-called space ship close
to the asteroid CERES of which I have spoken and I am observing
some of the activities which are going on upon this plateau. Know
that we are still using and will continue to use the relay station
which was established on the outskirts of Mars so that the fre-
quency which is being beamed to you will come at all times upon
a specific beam and not as in former times upon different fre-
quencies which were confusing, and which confused the channels
and even those who were broadcasting .
Question: I would like to know SOL-ASTAR how old you are and
something of your history .
Yes. I will give this to you at a future time. I had intended to
give you some of this. I will give a very brief outline. Know that I
was associated upon the continent of Lemuria before it was sub -
merged in the Pacific Ocean. I was associated with Capha which
has been now translated to you as APH, who was in charge of the
submergence ·of the continent of Lemuria. Also it may be interest -
ing to you to know that the channel through which I am now
speaking is, or was, from one of your planets by the name CONDOR
in the CONSTELLATION OF ANTARES. That is one method or
THE method by which we became enrapport with this movement
and because we had volunteered for this mission to be your teacher
from the SOL-STAROS GALACTIC PACT - that this channel would
be in complete rapport even before we had started this movement
of which as you all know he was mostly responsible through our
inspiration and direction. We will give you more of this at a later
time when we go into the past of your planet, which we do not
have time to touch upon tonight .
I will leave you now, dear children, and pronounce upon you
the benediction of all of those who are working with us here in the
outer realms, the benediction of those who are working with you,
for you, and of you, for you know that you are all One, one attune -
ment, one cosmic group, no matter where you may be or what you
may be doing. So now we will hold our hands above you and bless
you and hope that you will receive messages of greater value as
time goes on, greater inspiration. I am SOL-AS,TAR from the SOL-
STARIS GALACTIC PACT bidding you one and all a very blessed
and wonderful good night.
45
Anchor Points
(Sol-Ashtar Sept. 1959)
Good evening children of Light! Again we would come to you
and give you more information about some of the spiritual and
material needs and concepts which have been projected in times
past. This is your teacher and -mentor SOL-ASTAR. I have not
come to you for some time but I would give you a short dissertation
this night entitled ANCHOR POINTS.
You know that I and my brothers and sisters in space have
organized this group and given to this channel many things many
months ago which he did not understand and of which you had no
part. One of these themes, so to speak, or designations was what
was given to him as anchor points. Long before h.e knew anything
about me or space craft or planetary communication or travel, it
was given that there would be established upon this continent four
ANCHOR POINTS. We want to confirm and verify these former
impressions and give you more information about the anchor
points which have been established and what is about to be estab-
lished.
What is an anchor point? An anchor point is a place of cosmic
information, and let us say, illumination which is given to the
people of earth for their advancement and enlightenment. Now ye
well know that this group and this city is an anchor point in this
continent. This was not the first anchor point that was established.
The letter which you have received and has been read to you to-
night establishes another anchor point. (A letter was read from
the "Bridge to Freedom") which was established long before your
group came into its existence.
Now there is being formed and is almost in the, let us say,
exotic stage, an anchor point in Miami, Florida. They have another
teacher and the anchor point in New York has another teacher .
So these anchor points are now being formed. There will be
another one which has not yet been established and not yet decid-
ed upon in the southwestern part of your country. The location has
not been decided upon because of many factors which we cannot
go into now. It cannot be too close to the place which will have a
seething mass of heterogeneous chisms and isms and unholy rela-
tionships and unions; but it is rapidly being formed into a going
concern which shall soon emanate and be in rapport with all of the
others.
If you will draw a line between these various anchor points, you
will have what we might term a clothes line, or an imaginary line.
We are going to use some symbology so that you will understand
what we are talking about . This will not form a square, it will not
46
}
form a rectangle; but it will be a geometrical figure. Now we would
like to carry this symbology a little further, so that you will under-
stand it better.
Let us say that there is a clothesline or an imaginary line con-
necting your anohor point and the one in New York. There will be
another line connecting the anchor point with the one in Florida,
the one in Florida connected to the one perhaps in the northern part
of Mexico, or the inland part of California, or Arizona which has
not been established as yet. Tihen there will be another line going
directly to you. Now what are we going to hang on this clothesline?
You are going to hang a line full of clean clothes, so to speak;
clothes symbolizing the souls of men and women with whom you
come into contact, cleansed, not by the blood of the Lamb as mil-
lions would have you believe, but cleansed by the purity and white-
ness of the driven snow. The snowflakes that form geometric
figures upon your window panes and the purity of this snow, the
purity of thy thoughts as has been given to you this night will
cleanse these souls from all impurity, and they will be hung up so
that the world may look upon them, so that the world may see that
there are souls that have been cleansed; that there are souls that
are not afraid to turn their faces unto the light, who are not afraid
to be hung on a line for all to see. They will be manifested in many
ways. They will flap so to speak in the breeze . They will be purified
by the sunlight of love that shall shine down upon them.
Now let us carry this simile a little further. In order to be an
anohor point, it must be buried deep into the ground. Therefore,
these anchor points must be very deeply buried into the conscious-
ness of those who are holding them up, and who are surrounding
them and holding them into space . They must be able to hold this
clothesline; they must be able to hold all who shall want to get on
it and be purified and cleansed.
Now if you will draw when you get home, or any time, a line
diagonally from each one of these anchor points, you will have a
cross. At the point where these lines cross, you will have another
anchor point. However, know ye my children that this will NOT
be an anchor point of Earth. It will be an anchor point in the GREAT
ETERNAL COSMOS, of the Creator's Universe. It will be an um-
brella which shall be held up by the hand of the Almighty; and
it shall be an anchor point which shall hold the other four in their
places . You shall be held and you shall be protected by this um-
brella. It shall not protect all of the Earth beneath it, but it shall
protect those who are on the clothesline from the burning sands
and the burning sun. It shall protect them from all evil; but this
umbrella shall also protect the rest of the people of Earth from
complete destruction. This umbrella shall be in four parts.
There is also a symbology in the four lines which you have
drawn from the catty corner of these anchor points. If you will
count them, you will find that there are eight lines counting all
of the lines which you have drawn. What does the symbol repre-
47
sent? The symbol eight represents balance, or the two worlds -
your world and the world of eternity. Therefore, there shall be a
balance in the eight, or the four - the eight is an octave of the four.
So, my beloved friends, as I have come to you on many occa-
sions, as I have given you symbology, as I have given you instruc-
tion, light, and inspiration for all of the trials and tribulations
through which you have passed, I give you this tonight as a symbol
of that which shall come; as a symbol of that which you shou ld
hold to very tightly. You are to become in rapport with all of these
other anchor points. You should start with the one of which you
know and that is you should exchange in any way that you feel
or see fit , communication and literature, and all of the things that
are necessary to stretch this clothesline from this anchor point to
that one. Then when the other one is established very soon, you will
learn of it and we will stretch the clothesline and we will help you
stretch it to this other anchor point. We will help you to draw the
diagonals and we will help you to place the umbrella so that you
shall not be in any danger whatsoever.
Remember now this umbrella that envelopes you and is float-
ing above you whioh is not held by an anchor point of Earth, but
is held by the anchor point of the universal Creator of all Life so
that you shall be a point upward which shall sustain, which shall
promote, which shall promulgate the forces of Light and the forces
of Darkness, shall have no effect upon your anchor point - or upon
any other of these which are now being established. Know also that
this is not limited to your continent. The reason that I have not
been with you lately is because I have been establishing another
anchor point upon another place. This one is the beginning of a
similar triangle upon the other continent. 'Fhis one anchor point
that is now being established is in Australia. The name of the
city is Auckland.* Auckland, Australia, is now being established as
an anchor point which will spread and which will be a figure 6 in-
stead of the figure four that has been given to you. This will be a
complicated geometrical figure which we will give you later. Know
that you are not, so to speak , the only pebbles on the beach. There
are others who are in rapport with us, and we are working with
them very earnestly and very quickly for this must be done quickly
so that you will become acquainted with these other points. All at
once and very rapidly you will see the Light shining into this dark-
ened world. You will see a brilliant light that shall come from the
great healer who has come to you - Jesus the Christ. You will see
the Christ Consciousness in your life and it shall penetrate to the
uttermost parts of the Earth and those who do not know anyth ing
about this will be enlightened to a certain extent. There will be no
darkness upon your Earth when this great tranquillity and trans-
formation takes place. It will not be in the twinkling of an eye. It
will not be in a few years even yet to come. We only have the begin-
48
ning, and we are only now trying to establish with you, and the en-
lightened people upon your planet, anchor points which shall help
us to establish the Kingdom of God upon your planet.
So now, as I have told you many times, call upon me, but call
upon your Creator. Call upon your mentor, call upon the Christ
Consciousness, upon the Christ Himself, who is ever ready and
willing to walk with thee, by thy side. He shall come to thee again
soon, and give thee more inspiration and wisdom for thy pathway
as it lies through the thorns and brambles and the rocks as thou
dost climb to the lighthouse to light the lamp that shall penetrate
the darkness , not only of thy planet, but the darkness of all the
Universe. Thy planet shall be, and shall remain the most beautiful,
the most wise, and the most glorious in all of thy galaxy.
I will not give thee more for I have come to thee in peace;
I have come to thee in Light. I want to give thee encouragement
for I am still thy teacher. I am only one; for thou hast a higher
teacher, a greater one than I who shall guide thee in all ways of
life. This is SOL-ASTAR leaving you in peace and harmony which
is the watchword of thy group. Amen.
Channel: Zelrun Karsleigh.
*For t•
he benefit of overseas readers the editor would point out that
Auckland is in New Zealand which is 1200 miles S. E. of the con-
tinent of Australia. A new group was formed near S;ydney in Aus-
tralia during 1959 but the Auckland group had then been in exis-
tence for over two years . As Mr. Karsleigh has since commented,
Sol-Atar's words were "a bit garbled". At the time this communica-
tion was received none of the Universariun Group knew anything
about any group in either Auckland or Australia.
Comment by Zosma of Antares
You have just listened to SOL-ASTAR who is the head of the
Astaros Command, the Galactic Past of the Confederation of the
Universal Brotherhood of the Cosmic Light of which ye , everyone ,
are a part. l am ZOSMA from the giant constellation of ANTARES
which is also named under my name ZOSMA.
We have come from regions beyond, to help thee understand
thyself and the greater universes . We are here at the Father's WHI
and because of that great compulsion of love that we feel for the
Earth's people. In the past we trod the same path as you and we
know and understand the tribulations and the sufferings that you
are now going through during the cycles of changes. Know that
we are in conjunction with your Ashtar Command which is in that
great light of your thoughts and presence. Know that you are in
direct contact with all of the mighty beings of light. They are wait-
ing for thee to open thy mind to receive and to know that they
49
will transcend and project to thee cosmic instruction for thy well
being. We are near at hand now in thy very presence. W,e are closer
with thee in thought than we would be in person. You will unde r-
stand the full meaning of this concept when you go further into
thy inner being and realize that all things are but one thought -
God. God is the Only essence there is. Without thought the uni-
verses could not have been and you could not have been. The re
always was the Universal Thought that brought forth all life, all
creativily, all that is in thy presence and beingness.
Now I will leave thee in peace and understanding in that great
Light that embraces all. Channel: LeRoy Roberts.
A.re You Ready~
From MffiSSA:GES OF LIGHT, Given in His Name
Are you READY? Are you ready to serve the Lord Christ Jesus
and to bring His Kingdom to earth? Are you prepared to do this
service? The usual worker in the Light says "Yes" eagerly and
sincerely. And then the trials and tests assail ye and ye falter.
Many fall by the wayside . The more ye are called upon to meet
trials the wider becomes thy vision in understanding similar trials
of others.
Narrow is the Path to the Father and few there be who find it .
When the Path is narrow that one walks upon, the smallest object
across it makes the going difficult. Did ye ever walk in a freshly
formed narrow path across a snow field? If ye have ye can remem-
ber how thou didst stumble and how difficult it was to hold to the
center of such a path. But though ye did stumble and step out of it
from time to time, thy crossing of the snowy field made the path
a little plainer and easier for the one following after thee.
And so it is with thy earth life. As ye blaze the trail and smooth
down obstacles, those following after can observe how ye overcome
these obstacles , and if they are seekers after Light, they can gain
courage by having watched thee overcome, when they find the Path
to the Father carries them at times on a dimly marked path of
their own.
Life is never ,easy except for those on pleasure bent, who for
the time being seem to be coasting on smoothness. But the smooth-
ness does not last. All must be faced with problems, according to
their strength. As they overcome self, more -is given, because the
scope of the worker in the Light broadens constantly to take in a
wider and wider field, if he is willing to pay the price of serving the
Lord. If he isn't, he can stop at any point and look after his own
interests entirely.
Choose ye this day whom ye will serve. This choosing goes on
every day of thy life for each day thou livest in this day. Ye take
one day at a time as ye take one step at a time. Sufficient unto the
50
day is the evil thereof. And may I add also "the good thereof?"
One day at a time-so thy work for the Lord one day at a time.
See that each day is lived in His Name and thy days, as thy steps,
will surely and without fail lead ye to the Father, and the Son, and
ye will hear the Voice say: "Well done, thou good and faithful ser-
vant. To thee I give this crown of Life." Amen.
Given by John Phylos in the Name of Christ Jesus and the
Lord Jehovah God. Amen.
GUARDIANS OF PLANE 'T
Beings from Outer Space' Speak to Earth
ASHTAR DISCUSSES THE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE SOUL
(1.3.60)
We, who are of the Eternal Light, come to thee my dear chil-
dren, enveloping thee in utmostlove as the Master Jesus did. We
continue to love thee although we know that often you stray from
us and will not be led. We note the thoughts and feelings of all
creatures and look upon you as you yourselves look upon a tiny
babe in arms whom you still love in spite of its many tantrums.
In your own way you desire to go and, as you have been given free
will to do what you desire, so often you attempt to do that which
would be disastrous to yourselves.
If you but knew how many there are of us! There are many
many more in this life which you cannot see than have ever existed
upon these vairious globes. If you could but see the myriads and
myriads of beings that surround all things! They are of all variety
and ·of all stages. When God the Eternal desires to send forth that
which you call a new soul, then He sends it forth as Himself. It
may be placed at the beginning within a flower or a tree or even
within a creature of what you regard as a lower order, for it must
ascend and come into matter continually until it becomes of a high-
er and better order. That is what you term reincarnation . It is the
best way for the soul to learn those many things that it should
know.
You who dwell in the human body, as you call it, have develop-
ed upward and will continue to develop to a higher sphere. That
form which will develop upon your earth, still in matter , will become
51
of greater power and will be enabled to do many thin gs which you
have not known of. From the smallest it has come to the greatest in
matter. Upon this your world Shan there are developing many wh o
have this super-form of life and th ey will be enabled to do ma ny
marvellous and wonderful things because we are sending unto them
from afar much inspiration so that you will learn of those ma ny
disabilities which you have brought upon yourselves. We are send-
ing to you many cures. Many of those things which you think may
be disastrous to you are but sent to cure you of other ailments
which you have already and which you have brought upon your-
selves. 0 my friends, I am with you but how can I explain this path
of life which is sent forth and must develop?
Question: Ashtar, how many lives would it take for man to
reach the stage where we are now?
Many lives and still you must continue ever improving, ever
learning until you become as an off-shoot of the Divine and develop
into eternal life where matter means nought. Still you go on de-
veloping even when you go hence from the physical body; you must
still ascend continually ever developing until you can be as God
Himself.
Question: Does a soul that goes into a flower ever go into
human form?
It becomes eventually a human form but takes many eons of
time to do so. It is in that way that it starts living in your world of
Shan - a small and quiet and modest form of life but still a life that
has been given from God who created all things and breathed into
the nostrils of all creation so that they had of Himself that life'
which He has given. That is why, my dear ones, we of the spirit
say that you should not destroy that life which the Divine has given
to those of his creatures, unless they are harmful to your being.
It is utterly wrong that you should destroy them for God gave that
life and to you it should be utterly sacred.
Question: Ashtar can you give us any further information
about what might happen on April 8th.
You will find that word will come from the Americas. They ar e
not always right in these points for, as you know, time in our spir it-
ual realm is not as it is in the materia l world. The date given ma y
not be quite correct but many of those ships in the air which you
call saucers should be noted in the month which is to come as many
will be surrounding this planet.
Many of you imagine and desire that the Divine Father will
send to you very soon that One whom you call the Master . But the
time is not yet. Much is to come to this world of Shan ere that One
desc ends - much adversity and much worry - and man must ad-
vance in his ideas. Now that he has gained the knowledge of how
to destroy humanity and knows of the repercussions which would
follow were he to use his knowledge for destructive purposes, and
as he is beginning to learn that it is the law that as he gives he
52
will receive, he will realize that it is foolish to destroy. So advance-
ment will come to him and then the Master will come in His love
and His glory to give knowledge and help to those of your world.
Remark: Thank you for speaking to us this morning Ashtar.*
I was delighted to be enabled to be with you all and to speak
with you althoug,h I would that I could have spoken longer but I
would not detain you. I desired to let you know that I was with you.
I bless them all. May they go forth doing that which is most desir-
able to the all-highest, sending forth the knowledge of the Ever-
lasting Love that nothing is destroyed and that God has love for all
creation.
Farewell, God be with thee .
*For the first time Ashtar spoke to th ose assembled at the fort -
nightly meetings of the Herald of the New Age, held in the Friends'
Meeting House. Over 80 people were present. The "instrument"
used by the Inner Circle, who rarely attends the large group meet -
ings, happened to be present, sitting near the back of the hall.
At these meetings it is the general practice to go "into the
silence" for fifteen minutes. On this occasion, however, the silence
was broken after only a few minutes by the loud masculine voice of
Ashtar who continued to speak for five or ten minutes. The instru-
ment, an elderly Scottish lady of the Presbyterian faith, was un -
aware of what happened until she was informed later. She thought
she had merely dosed for a while during the meditation.
LIFE ON A PLANET CALLED "BINKA"
(1.3.60)
I come to speak to you, 0 people of the S,tar of Darkness. I have
come from a world of beauty, from the bright and wonderful world
of Binka where there are many beings like unto myself.
I see around this temple the beautiful grass which is of the
same green colour as those grasses that lie in the deep valleys in
my world. And I see you, 0 my friends, you who are not as I am .
You of your world are like unto those things that come in the
night very quickly - those pale growths which we eat. What is the
word you use? The Mushroom! I cannot think of the word in your
language because it is different from my own. I have to allow the
brain of the instrument to interpret into your language and it is a
little strange. But we are managing not at all so badly! We our-
selves are of wonderful coluring but of course I know that you of
that Dark Star are not in the brightness to any great extent and
that you are suited for your environment whereas we are suited
to ours. I myself admire my own world which is only natural.
Question : Are you formed in the same shape as we are, my
friend?
53
We, my friends, are of the same material plane as yourselves
but we are not of the same form. But when I enter my veneta I do
see beings in a minor form upon your planet which resemble our-
selves in shape but are not of as high an intellect. Our legs are
longer than yours and we can do many things that you cannot do
because we have four of those things which you call hands. Ours
are of a much better kind too. We think how fortunate you would
be if you had four of those limbs instead of two, but otherwise we
admire your form. It is well developed and you are able to do a great
deal with your two hands, but if you had four you would be able to
do twice as much.
Question: Do you live in houses on your planet?
We have beautiful buildings and we have nurseries where our
children are treated as they should be. There are no delinquents
upon my planet because they are conditioned from the beginning.
They are all workers. On my planet there are 500,000,000 beings
like unto myself in form and we have much that we do. There are
also many other beings some of whom are somewhat as you seem
but of a smaller kind and not as well developed in the intellect.
These we have living with us in our liomes. We care for them and
feed them and pet them. My dear mate loves that one which she
possesses. It is but small and is loved , this little creature, and we
give it many things.
Question: How did you come by the little creature?
They are born in my planet. There are many of them. They
have not, as yet, as much intellect as we possess and are not as
intelligent, I am told, as you are, but they have great opportunities.
Tthey are given much love by us, the love which should be given
to our own young. Our females especially desire these little crea-
tures to stay with them so that they may pet them and love them
for many of our mates are much hurt because they are not allowed
to bring up their own young; for our children are sent to great
nurseries, great towers, where they are schooled and taught.
Question: Do you worship the Creator where you dwell?
We know of that great and divine Light which shines upon us
ever and we can see many of those beings like unto ourselves and
like unto you who are not of the flesh or tib.emateri al form. We also
are able to send forth many of these things which you call - I can-
not get the word- Anyway they are things that fly in the air and
on into the airless spaces where they make use of the ma gnetic
forces. We are too far away from your system to enter into your
places, nor would it be wise to come to you because you migh t fear
us even though our minds are as yours. We think very much as you
do but - and I am not saying this out of conceit - our advancement
in many of the sciences is greater than yours is at present.
I must depart because the mind -0f one here tells me that I
have used your instrument sufficiently. I transported myself to see
you and I have been speaking to you by sending the flow to this
54
your instrument. I admit that I was at first a little concerned at the
idea of sending my thoughts through that one who sits there with
you, that one whose light shows us that we can use her to give
to your our words.
The Divine Light be with you all my friends of the Dark Star,
and may you realize that upon many mansions of the Eternal Light
there are different forms suited to the many dissimilar enviorno-
ments.
SINCE MAN WALKED WITH GOD IN THE
GARDEN OF EDEN
A TALK BY ADAM (8.3.60)
And man goest forth to his work for work ennobleth a man.
So I speak, I who have not s,poken to thee before. I, Adam, the first
man who became conscious of the Eternal Light. I speak to thee
in thine own tongue but it was not that which I spoke. I will speak
to thee as I spoke of yore . . (Here he spoke in another language.)
As thou observest O mankind - thou who have come from
my loins, thou who livest now in the latter days - I, who was of the
beginning,, am speaking unto thee for thou knowest not much al-
though thy minds have developed somewhat. Although thou hast
many things within thy hands, still thou art not happy my children;
although thou hast descended into matter still thou art not happy.
Thou enjoyest not these things which thou art ambitious to pos-
sess for t]ley are as dust and ashes within thy mouth. Thou goest
forth with the speed of light; thou hurlest thyself through the air.
Yet thou art not happy as we were in our garden of beauty.
Question: What was your state in those days Adam?
I was as of light, as of light we were. We spoke with our Crea-
tor oft. We had many attributes which now thou hast not for thou
hast used thy minds to other purposes and sin has descended into
that world that was created with so much beauty. Not only canst
thou blame myself for those things but thou canst blame thyselves
for thou has descended. Thou thinkest but of those things which
thou possessest, and disease and sadness have descended upon the
world because of those things which man has done. He imagined
he knew better than the Creator of all; He has parted from the
beginnings and he has come to disaster. Also he has created within
himself many abortions which have become to him of great harm;
he suffers from all diseases because of the wickedness of his soul
and of his mind . And still he goes on bringing on to himself many
disasters until the physical body is becoming as nought and many
are losing their minds. When man was created there was no deform-
ity in the body or in the mind and now alas I look upon my descen -
dants and I grieve for them for they have traversed forth and they
have become an abortion in the eyes of all that was pure and good.
55
Question: Will you give us an interpretation of the tree of
knowledge of good and evil that was reported to have been in the
Garden of Eden?
That was in the Garden of Eden and the meaning there was
the descent of man into matter. He became and he knew because
he realized many of the things and the beginnings of those horrors
and diseases which he brought forth into his own body. He depart-
ed from the teachings of the Almighty. No longer could he speak
with the Father of the whole creation for he had disobeyed the
words of the Great Spirit and he went forth. But it was not that
actual tree of knowledge which he desired. He desired to go on in
his own way and he cast from him those words that he had rece ived
from the Almighty God. When he walked with God in the Garden of
the World which was most beautiful and luxurious he took to him-
self the thoughts of his own mind and so became as one law . He
tried his utmost to change those things which the Almighty had
made and as he went on he developed many malformations. He
took to himself the blood of the creatures that the Almighty has
created and became of a vicious temperament; he trained those
creatures of the gentler nature for his own uses. Still man goes
forth doing those things which, in the end, will cause his progeny
to be of a different kind, for mutations will come upon the earth
and many abortions, as he has already proved. You see these things
upon the streets within your cities; you see and observe many
things that should not be. Many of your people have no mind for
ought because they can think of nought; the majority are becoming
as if they were not of any kind whatsoever for their minds and their
decisions have fled from them and they know not anything.
Question: How many rebirths have you had since the days
when you became conscious, Adam?
Many times have I dwelt upon this earth since I first came
forth from the womb of time and I have brought in very many
attributes. I have come as a King, and as a priest; I have come as
a beggar and have begged of those who would not give me aid but
I speak to you as Adam who you are taught was the first man
created. That one was not created as is denoted but God breathed
into the nostrils of all creatures and gave to them of Himself, of
that life which no man can give to anything whatsoever . Oft he
has desired to create life but it has been impossible for him for he
is not God.
Question: Were you made of the dust of the ground Adam?
Not as described. Those things are beautiful stories from the
beginning of time . Man has evolved from the dust of the earth
although he evolved in water at first. He became, he moved, he
arose, he came forth from the waters and he became an animal of
the land of some note. Also he gained much knowledge and as he
56
evolved from the lower orders he became man, man as thou seest
at this time . Myriads are the years that pass ere man evolves. Sitill
he is evolving somewhat but it is to a dire and sorrowful end that
he is taking himself, because he has not followed the law which was
to replenish the earth copiously and to live simply and in great
beauty . He has been arrogant and cruel. God gave him a spirit
which he could use to make all things as of Him but he has used
it to a sorrowful and a dire purpose so that now upon this world
there is much that makes it a purgatory to many who live upon it in
poverty, disease and in hunger.
Question: Have you evolved away out of the physical form?
Man I was, man I am, and man continuously will I be; for I am
not but one - I am many. I am myriads. I exist continuously until
the order comes that I depart, and I disintegrate into nothing at all.
Then the Power of All will re-create and make all things new .
A Priest of Ancient Babylon Speaks on the
Evolution of Man.
(8.3 .60)
Man was as the dust but like all other creatures he became life
in the waters which covered the earth. As thou knowest, my friends,
from the beginning thou hast evolved. Man was not created as he
now is, but the consciousness that came to him made him different
from others. From the waters he rose; he was but as an amoeba in
the waters at the beginning but that was not man. The amoeba was
but one single cell and as the cells increased so other forms of crea-
tures grew. As thou knowest, children, when a child is conceived
it goes through different forms in the womb, until it comes into
light as mankind and when it is born it still must gain; it must gain
in weight and in mind and in form until it bcomes that which now
inhabits the earth. This creature which thou callest man has been
given hands which it may use but its massive brain, its mentality,
is the greatest of all creatures that have been created upon this
your earth . He evolvea.from the lowest order and it is of no dis-
credit to man because the Creator had eternity to do his wonderful
works upon all the worlds that thou seest, and such things are still
happening. Many worlds are still covered with water so that the
creatures that inhabit them are still of the waters; but many other
beings on other worlds have evolved much further than man upon
earth and are of an ethereal and more beautiful nature. Man must
continue to learn for he must become a superman eventually and
then something that is far higher. Unfortunately he has diverted
his knowledge to other ends and continually brings into your world
those who are malformed in the brain and in the body. Also because
of his own sins and his lack of mind and his many wrong ways ot
providing for those that are under his domination he has given to
his offspring many diseases and many sorrows.
57
Question: Was the first man bi-sexual please friend, and how
did the sexes become divided?
Men were once hermaphrodites like the amoeba and the lower
orders but when the physical bodies developed to a higher form
they became divided into man and woman - Male and female r.
created He them and always they are seeking one another so that
again they may be joined in the eternal life. They will be united
eventually and then the unity of spirit will be great and mankind
will gain greater knowledge. He will know the way in which he has
erred and will go forth and do that which is wiser and bette r for
his own kind. He is going forward little by little . It is a very slow
process, I will admit, but continuously other spirits try to guide
man into the right path so that he will not thoroughly injure his
own development. He will 'become as of God Himself but he must
develop further in these ways.
Question: Who are you friend?
We who are of the spirit have much joy in being able to help
thee O my children . I was one who dwelt upon your earth in the
days gone by. I was a priest of the great palaces of Babylon. I was
an instructor in philosophy and mankind followed me and still will
do so. My words have been many times carved and written in the
pamphlets but much has been lost and besides the words are not
now known . Thou wilt find anon some form which will show thee
and give thee teachings which thou hast not yet found out. Upon
the deserts thou must seek and thou wilt find the truth of these
things. Beneath the sands of the desert much is hidden, but the
winds will blow and the sands will be dispersed, and thou wilt gain
much more knowledge than thou hast at this moment. Thou wilt
find upon the bare rocks many interesting things that now thou
knowest not of ; thou wilt find the ancient civilizations which exist-
ed long ere thou earnest upon earth.
Question: Will that be in the Sahara desert friend?
Partly there and partly in the Gobi desert. Under the sea also
much will be found. As thou knowest in thy world three quarters
of the area is still under water but as the seas will recede, there
will be found marvellous creatures. They will be found and thou
wilt be astounded. Many things that have been hidden will be
brought to light and the knowledge of man will be considerably in-
creased and he will go forth to a better era. He will destroy that
which is evil within himself and those things that are causing him
to become degraded because, as his knowledge becomes greater,
he will see the trend ·on which he is now going, and will try his
utmost to turn himself into a greater and finer being.
I, Nahamican am speaking unto thee O my children The future
that thou has before thee is very great and wonderful, but thou
must do thine utmost to stay the bloodshed and the sorrows and
wars that are descending upon ·thee as a result of thine own deeds.
Thou hast become as a blood -thirsty animal; thou dest royest the
creatures · of the Almighty . My children take heed and go not too
far away fr om the laws that have been given unto thee .
58
Philosophy And Love Will Bring Great Joy
To The World
I have come to speak for just a little while, my friends. I was
a philosopher who thought deeply on many things. My name was
Sophocles. I, of course, observed man as he was at my time. He
erred often but it mattered not because he would eventually find
himself again. It is better to take notice of the advancement of
mankind and of his achievements for he has developed greatly and
achieved much in the short time that he has existed upon the world
in his present form. But has still far to go and if he does not dis-
integrate himself in his utter foolishness and will take time to con-
sider thin gs then he will find a finer philosophy on many subjects
and will be more contented with the conditions in which he dwells.
The cause of the troubles upon the world is the lac k of philo-
sophy. If, instead of desiring to achieve that which is beyond his
grasp, man would be content with that which is near unto him and
which he can gain without great effort, then he would find that all
these troubles that are descending upon the world would be extin-
guished and that the health of the multitudes would be considerably
greater. Man has always tried to achieve that which is beyond his
reach and it is only in this your present day that he is at last begin-
ning to re alise the ill effects of this. He is finding that many who
now live are confined in great establishments because of that
energy that they have been using for wrong purposes, and is rea-
lizing that those who live in peace and quietness achieve more and
have better physical and mental health than those who continually
rush hither and thither trying to do many things at once so that
they may acquire many worldly goods.
The acquisition of wealth is considered of great importance by
the present generation and always has been since man left the trees
and the woods and came as an inquisitive creature to gain posses-
sions for himself that he might be in advance of his fellows. Man
desires to enslave his fellows even, whenever he can do so without
causing himself much trouble. and he has done this for many hun-
dreds ·of years.
Now there is advancing a form of philosophy and morality that
will gradually permeate the whole world and will cause man to lose
that aggressive joy of possessions. He will come to consider posses-
sions but as a nuisance and a tie and as a hindrance to his mental
and physical development. You have observed , my friends, that
tho se who are intellectually profounded have not as a rule great pos-
sessions and that those who have possessions of great variety are
often lacking in commonsense. If the wealthy would only divide
their many possessions they would find that their peace of mind
would be greater and also that they would have considerably raised
the conditions of many of the people who now reside with them
upon this globe.
59
I myself had few possessions. I was content with just the gown
1 was clothed in and a place whereon to lay my head; but I thought
deeply and my name has gone forth for many generations while
the names of the kings and princes and those of great wealth have
been lost in the passage of time. Only morality and philosophy and
mental attainment will continue to be of any use to mankind and
to the world as it gains in age. Let me tell you that many wealthy
people have gone forth from this life, this material life, leaving no
sign upon the records of time, whereas most of those who have
given knowledge and help to mankind have been remembered; and
even if their actual names have been forgotten yet those things that
they have done have continued to live on. And so it will be to the
end. I will now depart. Let the love of the Great Spirit and His Light
infiltrate into thy very being and keep thee - and mayst thou phil-
osophize as thou shouldst, for philosophy and love will bring great
joy to the world.
"Let All Oreatures Praise The Lord For He Is
Good."
(Neopolus 28.3.60)
Open thine ears O sons of man and listen to the words that
are spoken, those words that go forth from the Holy and Divine
Light of all, who has sent forth from Himself many to speak unto
mankind so that ye may know of His Being. Praise the Divine One,
He who surrounds thee, He in whom thou dwellest, He who has
given to thee the breath of life; for He is worthy of praise of all
His creations. ',
Let all creatures praise the Lord for He is good, He is Holy,
He is perfect. Let the trees clap their hands, the flowers send forth
their perfume and all things praise the Lord in His Heaven; for He
made them so that they would send forth to Him from themselves
that soul which He has endowed them with.
Let the rivers flow; let the birds sing from their homes that
they have built; let them speak unto thee in their own words and
let all things rejoice that they have been created by that Holy One,
that One who lives forever and of whom thou art a part.
- 0 children listen to the voice ·of the speaker. Thou must lift thy-
selves into the Holy Light. Open thyselves to the inflow of tha t
marvellous Light which is sent forth unto thee. Let this Light per-
meate thy very being. Know that love eternal flows forth unto thee
and praise the Father of all these things that He has given thee the
breath of life and also that He has given unto thee that conscious-
ness so that thou wilt be enabled to know that He is unto thee as a
Father.
Thou, 0 people, have been put upon these several worlds so
that you may honour Him in the process of your evolution to the
greater things of Life, so that you may be enabled in your greater
consciousness to become one with God and to dwell with Him for-
ever in eternity.
60
...
I, who am speaking unto thee, am one who has known of many
things for many eons of time. My name was Neopolus. I have
spoken to many but not before have I come to this particular land-
ing field to speak unto thee. 0 my children who dwell here in this
place, let thy light shine before men. Let thy work be most wonder-
ful and show forth that which the Lord has given unto thee. Show
forth the words of His Love and show forth those wonderful works
of healing, that power which he has given unto thee that thou must
i;o forth and help thy fellow beings. Thou canst do these things my
children, if only thy power is rightly placed so that the Lord God
can give to thee the radiance of His Presence.
Question: Can you give us any instruction as to how, we as a
group, may co-operate with you better than we do?
From you there flows much of that form of Light which thou
canst send forth unto others. Thou canst continually help thy
brethern. Place within thy minds the images of those whom thou
from thine inmost heart desire to help and then a healing fluid will
flow forth from thee into their consciousness.
Farewell O ye children of man . Praise the Divine Father for He
has sent to thee all things and in His mercy will aid thee along that
way that thou art going.
A Conve1
rsation Between Worlds
246 Light Years Apart
(22.3.60)
I could see you. I used my "spatagus"'~ and saw you and so I
thought I would speak to you.
Question: Where do you come from?
I am of Akindingda.
Question: Where is that?
It is 246 light years from you. Do you know that I am able to
see you - you who are of the people who live on that world that
circles around the naked sun? I see you who have the bright light
in that world. I am pointing my spatagus at you so that I can see
you. I have been able to send a train of light to you so that I can
speak. I am a scientist of my own world. You have not seen it from
your world yet. If you could see it you would be astonished for we
are not as you are and can do many things that you cannot do.
Excuse me, my friends, if I do not speak very well yet for. our words
are not as yours.
Question: Whom do you worship?
We worship the Great Maker of all. We live and we take not
of those things which we see you take. When we desire of nourish-
ment we bring into ourselves of the different forces that are sur-
rounding us and come from different places - things that are in a
form that can be absorbed by us. But when you desire of nourish-
ment you eat one another we notice. You absorb one another into
61
your own system. We do not do that. We absorb other things.
I am speaking from my planet and from my tower of Akin-
dinga. My tower is very tall. It projects many many thousands of
feet beyond our atmosphere. You could not live in our atmosphere
because it is of heat too intense and also there are many things
that would poison you.
Question: Why did you choose to speak to us?
We had a meeting and we put out - what you call binoculars -
upon your particular planet and we saw you sitting in the light.
So it attracted us. We are not of any hurt to you. We would not
injure you in the slightest.
Question: Do you see many fields of light on this planet?
We noticed many many fields of light but this one we noted
most because the light that was coming from it was exceeding ly
bright. We hoped we would be able to speak to you.
You could not imagine this place where we live because it is so
very very hot. You could not live here. Only people of our consis-
tency live in this particular place. We would like to show it you
but it would not be good for you and so we will not.
Question: What is tbe population of your planet , friend?
There are many millions and millions in our place and they
have much to do. We see that you move around considerably but
it is not necessary for us to move from place to place as we have
found ways of sending thought messages to each other and we use
our thoughts to do those things which are necessary.
Remark: You seem to have a lot of intelligence.
We have, my friend. There is knowledge within us. I am told
that I must not use this instrument much longer so I cannot speak
further. May the Divine Father bless thee. He whom all worship be
with thee.
A Comment By Ashtar. I thought that I had better speak to
you. Our friend was having a perspective of the views on some of
the planets.
Remark: We do not understand how a being 246 light years
away could talk to us from that distance. Could you explain?
These things we understand but such subjects are too vast for
the human mind to grasp and we would not give you more than
you can absorb. You cannot as yet absorb readily even compara-
tively small things. We show you other creations and let them
come into contact with you when we so desire it but there is a grea t
gulf fixed between many of these worlds and your own. You are
perfect for your environment and these other creations are per-
fect for theirs, but it is unnecessary and would be undesirable for
you to visit one anoter at this time of your evolvement. We give
you a little information on these things now and again so that we
may help and interest you and bring you to realize how marvellous
are the creations of the Almighty God, that One who is the Source
of all the wonders of all the universes and continues creating ever-
lastingly.
62
On The Origin and Development of Races:
A Talk By One Who Dwelt In China
: (22.3.60)
I have the honour of being of an ancient race of China. I Wing
Fong greet you.
The Chinese are again coming into the limelight, as you call it,
my friends, and will do much good for all peoples. You think that
they know little but within their vast country there are many great
philosophers and others of high intellect who will gain influence
over those who now ,go forth to fight and take of the blood of the
other races. When we gather these together and cast out from
those thought of blood which at present they are inclined to have,
China will became a great friend to you all. But first of all my peo-
ple must be able to put from them the thought that they are looked
down upon and discarded by other nations.
The Chinese are of a fine and industrious nature and make
good citizens in any country. They have within their hearts thoughts
of deep love for the little ones, their parents, and their grand-
parents and try to help each other. They do not degrade their family
life with feelings of dislike and antagonism and consequently they
will, in this respect, be of much gain to the many nations in this
world. They will go forth and will intermarry into the different na-
tions and will infuse into them a great love of family, greater in-
dustry, a greater form of philosophy and greater adulation for the
beauties of the Higher Light. So it will go on. In the end there will
be many diversities of people but they will be as one; no one race
will think itself the most important and all will realize that none is
more important than another in the eyes of the Holy One who
created all.
The original human race developed in China and the great
Gobi desert, as you call it - the place where I dwelt; but the original
race were not as the Chinese are at present. From the centre of my
country they advanced forth and ultimately spread to the farthest
places of the world; and the different climates and environmen ts
in these different places developed them into the various forms
which you see today.
Question: Are the Negroes and Indians off-shoots of this origi-
nal race?
They and you yourselves are all equally so. If you go forth to
the north of America you will find that the Indians which you see
there have a similarity to the Chinese. The places where they have
~ dwelt have made them as they are. In the hard and rough places
of the world there have developed a taller type of people. As you
63
know, my friends, the coloured races of Africa are not so indu s-
trious as those who dwell in the cold countries wher,e man has to
earn his living in a harder way. The man who is able to lie and
sleep in the sunshine and to rise and take his food from those tre es
and shrubs that grow beside him, needs not to be industrious. He
becomes, to a certain degr ,ee, physically and mentally degraded;
but the man who has to fight his way, who has to use his mus cle
and his brain, becomes of greater development. If man does phy si-
cal work he gains in strength but otherwis ,e he becomes weak; and
if man uses not his brain he gains little knowledge and becom es
mentally weak . Many at present, in your country , have a great lack
of brains. Your homes of medicine are full of such people who ha ve
gone against the law that man must work physically and mentally.
Farewell. God be with you, my dear children, you who are an
off-shoot of that race of which I came and who have become adapt -
ed as was desirous by the Inmost Light and Power of All. The Di-
vine Light descend upon you.
A FURTHER EXPLANATION BY ASHTAR:
Question : Ash tar did we understand Wing Fong correctly when
he said that all races originated from the Chinese race?
He did not say from the Chinese race but from a form which
developed in that part of the world. China is a vast country as thou
knowest and was the cradle of mankind . You all come from the
same ancestors but the many many years of evolvement which the
Divine Father has allowed and the different environments and dif-
ferent wanderings of these creatures have resulted in the develop-
ment of different physical and mental characteristics. If white men
were to stay in this country, with no infiltration from your other
white races, you would find that, gradually, the race would become
of a different hue and a diffe1:1entform . Only by a constant infiltra-
tion of the Europeans from the polar countries can New Zeland con-
tinue to remain a white man 's country; for , if there were no such
infiltration, your people would g:radually become browner. Besides ,
their physical development would alter because, in the warmer
countries such as yours, food can be produced in abundance and so
life is comparatively easy. All such conditions contribute towards
the development of different forms in humanity but you have all
come from the original creation. And the cradle of the human race
was China.
64
!
SONS OF GOD
An Explanation By Nethopopla of Venus
Greetings O children of Shan I., Nethopola am speaking to
you . I am one who has not spoken before although I am from Venus
and my friends and my brethren, the "White Brethren" come here
to be with you; but now I would like to give you information on the
subjects that you have been discussing.
In the beginning there was one-the Eternal Father. He was
all things . He was Himself. He rested in the many places and
throughout the many universes and he desired companionship. So
He created from Himself many to be companions unto Him and
sent them forth for their development. He cr,eated also many who
could be unto Him as sons. As an earthly father creates his own, as
he loves his own , so did the Divine Spirit create thosie who were to
be as His own.
And it came about that the lower creations of the Father be-
gan to depart from the way of right, thwarting the desire and the
intentions of that great and wonderful Being and going forth as
they themselves desired and not in the way of the Holy Spirit. So
One who was as a son unto tbe Holy Spirit off,ered to go forth and
incarnate as a human being that He might help mankind - this
One who is adored and admired by the Angels and other sons of
God.
When he came into the flesh - this One who is adoPed and
admired by the angels and the other sons of God - He came but as
a poor working man because from this grade of society there
comes more spiritual beauty and thought than from those who are
lavished and surrounded by prosperity and luxury. Those who have
such prosperity and luxury oft care not for the knowledge of spirit-
ual things because they have so many material joys that matter to
them means adulation, prosperity and luxury. To the poor however
there comes more open enlightenment and on them descend many
gifts and blessings from the Father. So that wonderful Son of the
Father came unto you in His love and beauty to help you.
We of the spirit acknowledge His omnipotence. We aclmow -
ledge those wonderful things that were in His bein g, those qualities
that were of God Himself; and if you will acknowledgte that One
and will lift your souls in faith unto Him - if you will beli eve that
He can heal you of your sorrows and your troubl es of the flesh -
then you will be healed, but only according to your faith will it be.
Even that Gr:eat One could not heal when the belief was not there;
for He came to you as man, with all the failings and the weaknesses
of man. He is your brother in very truth for you are also the chil -
dren of the Almighty Father. Each of you has a spirit which has
come from God Himself and, although many hav ,e become of larger
enlig htenment, still it is necessary that you should also advance to
that height.
65
You will do so. Perhaps not at this momem, but you will ulti-
mately become one again with the All Father. For are you not of
Himself and have you not beauty of His Light within you?
Question: Will you pronounce the name of that Great Father
of us all?
"Om" that Great Spirit, that Eternal One, He whose name
murmurs through the trees, in the waters and as the music of the
spheres as they roll on in their paths. Try thine utmost to speak
that wonderful name for "Om" is the name of that God who said
"I am that I am". Lift your souls my children. In the morning when
the sun arises listen to that name and you will hear the murmurs.
At your window you should stand and draw into yourselves the
breath of the Almighty Father and you will hear His name murmur-
ing continuously. It never ceases although it is overclouded by your
many works of matter. Listen to this wonderful voice for you have
within your hearts the desire for enlightenment and we of the spirit
will do our utmost to help you.
Question: Will you tell us the name of the Son who came in the
flesh?
"Jesus" He was called by humanity, which means "saviour."
He was the Messiah that was spoken of by the ancient prophets
from the beginning of history. He became as man himself with all
the attributes that were of man. If He had not done so, if He had
come as God, then those things which He did would have been at-
tributed to His Divinity. But He came as man to show man the way .
He was tempted as man and He resisted those temptations of the
flesh. He desired to help all people, to surround all humanity with
His love, for man needed this more than any of the other spheres
that the Almighty had created.
Question : Was He conceived as other men are?
Joseph was His father in the flesh and Mary was a virgin until
she conceived and became the mother of that One. Theology has
desired to make of Jesus, the man, God H!imself, but He is part of
God just as we are all part of God created from Himself. Jesus was
the son of God and oft He earned you His brethren; and Jesus did
not lie. He could not lie because it was against his desire. All men
will be enfolded again in the joy and beauty of that Life Eternal to
which you are all hieirs. Not one portion of God can be destroye d
and as you yourself are a portion of that wonderful omnipoten t
Soul you will go on ever being more purified; for that life which
you have been given is of God Himself.
Often when this G!'leat One sees mankind heading for great
disaster He sends His sons to speak to you and to lead you again
in the way of light. Fear not, and let none say unto you that those
Beings that speak to you are of evil, for they are not .* You are
protected because of your great aspirations. When you uplight your
66
souls unto the Father with those beliefs within your hearts, nought
can hurt you and disaster cannot come unto you. Go forth, my chil-
dren , helping and loving all. Keep yourselves in purity and beauty.
,,,This paragraph refers to a previous discussion by the mem-
bers of the group on the subject of protection from evil entitles and
the advice given by John (1. John 4.1.) "Try the spirits whether
they are of God."
A CLOSING PRAYER BY ELFREDA THE HEALING ANGEL
O Father Eternal, Thou Creator of all, Thou Who hast made
all from Thyself keep us we pray. Keep Thy creatures and let us
know that Thou art ever with us. Let us see the Light which sur-
rounds us with Thy Presence and keep us in all our ways . Keep us
in our going out and our comings in and let us live for Thee. 0
Father givie forth love as thy Son did eternally and does to the end
of all. O Father help us and help our brethren who are still impri-
soned in the flesh. Keep them and let them know th at Thy Pre-
sence is ever with them. Let them fear not but go forth carrying
Thy Light before them and keeping Thy eternal will.
PRAISE AND GRATITUDE
From MESSAGES OF LIGHT Given in His Name
In the Name of the Lord Jehovah God and Christ Jesus, I, Dr.
Montzelle, salute ye all this beautiful Sabbath day. Praise ye the
Father and the Son; Praise Him all creatures on earth plane. Praise,
praise, praise.
Ye mortals forget not thy praise and gratitude. The old ihymn
says: "Count thy many blessings, count them one by one." Man-
kind is mostly ungrateful for what he has, never takes time to take
stock of his assets, and always wanting mor ,e and more, usually
things that he doesn't need.
When ye take an inventory of thy blessings , both material and
spiritual blessin gs, and ye see the gifts of thy Father and render
thanks for them, y,e become less eager to chase after baubles.
Never fail to voice thy praise and gratitude many times a day
to the Father , knowing, thereby that ye bless the earth and help to
make it fruitful according to Hi s Plan for His humanity.
Always thy constructive thoug,hts aid The Plan, and the des-
tructive thought hinders. In this way the most materially insignifi-
cant person on earth ranks with the most prominent one , in his
ability to help with the Father's Plan. Spiritually tJhere are no in-
significant ones. All are prominent according as they work con-
structively with the Father . So keep on with thy praise and grati-
tude, knowing ye thereby bless mankind as well as thyself.
Dr. Montzelle hath instructed in the Name of the Lord Jehovah
God this day. Amen.
67
Contributions From The Universariun Founda-
tion of Portland, U. S. A.
Plutana of Venus Speaks of the Coming
Golden Age1
(9.11.58)
Good Evening! I am Plutana. I have been waiting to speak a
few words about the Golden Age that is coming . This will be a per-
iod for the advancement of the soul, mind and body. It will be more
mental than the age you have just passed, and as you enter into thi s
Age of Cosmic Light, you will find the Light descending to you
from both the inner and outer realms. It is not too far off ...
merely a few years, and you will not have long to wait. It will com e
quicker than you can wink your eye!
There will be many exp:eriences to teach you how to use th e
Laws of Divine Consciousness, and we can only repea t the admoni-
tion "Stop, look and listen , for the time is nigh." If you find us
reiterating these remarks time and again , it is only that we wish
to anchor you in the spirit which ye are, that ye may aspi r e an d
learn more about yourself and God. Ye must be joyful ; be happy!
Many experiences will be very trying but remember that God is
teaching you how to be silent and still - how to know good fro m
evil that you may become str ong in the faith .
Time is short . Coming up are the old continents that wer e
submerged many thousands of years ago. They are rising gradu -
ally out of the sea - and parts of these continents will be seen an d
known once again . There will be earthquakes in many areas an d
plaoes all over the world . So be not troubl ed. These trials will tak e
place before all these changes can be effected. Sea rch thy hear t
and do everythin g diligen tly, knowing that this work must be ac-
complished within as well as withou t - the work th at only these
tests and tri als may brin g for th and which you will find ma y be
bless ings in disguise.
Be ye pre pare d, and ye shall know the time ! Be ye ready for
the Light doing good for one and an other and co-operating tha t
the way may be made straight . This is the only way ! Listen unto
Him and ye will not stray into the pathway that is lon ger, but will
find the stra ight and well-trav elled narrow way wherein you will
find the Lord as the CENTRE of all things; for He is the PATH
without end in th e consc iousness of thy being . I shall leave you now ?.
so th at oth ers may speak who posses s grea ter un dersta nd ing and
power. Visha Nana!
Remark: Th ank you! We will be happ y to hea r from you again ,
and may we offer you our heartfelt than ks for this messa ge. Be-
68
fore you go though, will you identify yourself more fully?
I am Plutana from Venus-a lady pilotess. I operate "menas"
- that is what we call control panels. I also act as a communicator
and frequently contact people who are receptive to the conscious
awareness of our purpose of helping them.
I must be leaving .. . . and thank you . I am being called away!
Channel: Le Roy Roberts
Greetings From Nepto of Neptune
(9.11.58)
I am NEPTO from Neptune! I am glad to be here, 0 Seekers
of the Light Eternal! God is Light and Light is Love, and Love is
the FOUNDATION of the Universe, and the Universe is the founda-
tion of LOVE, and ye are one with the Light Eternal, and ye are
sons and daughters of that Light Eternal, and ye are partakers of
the Wisdom of His Creations and His endless progression through
mankind. Ye have chosen the Light Eternal, or you would not be in
this meeting .
Wie are stationed out in galactic space in our OCTU Space
Craft. Our planet is known to thee as the mystical planet of your
solar system . We vibrate on that frequency and we have come
through that frequency vibration of Neptune.
Remark: This is the highest vibra tion we have ever exper-
ienced!
I am glad this is so. Yes, I shall try to assist you in your desires
and wishes if they be of the Light I am Nepto - 9 - NA 9.
Q : What is the reason for the nine?
Neptune is the ninth planet in the solar system. NA is for Nep-
tune. NA is the positive force activity of the Father's creation, and
this is our frequency, our galactic space frequency. We are of a
very high vibration. We are giants in thy sight. We are giant beings
of Cosmic Light, and we do unto thee service in the Light for we,
too, are a part of the GREJAT I AM, the same GREAT I AM of
which ye are a part.
Would you be interested in knowing something of our planet's
life? While our size may be considered fantastic to your measure-
ment, our height, which is on the average of nine foet, is in propor-
tion to the gigantic size of our planet. The etheric dimension of our
planet is larger, the molecular structure is larger, and hence our
bodies are larger in comparison than yours. We who are of Neptune
gravitate in our atomic structure to that frequency that is of a
69
higher evolution and development in Cosmic Mind.
Shall we explain that in our solar system there is a certain
development of thought and being that is a part of our Solar Logos.
There is a Logos of this system of planets, and there is a S,olar
Logos for other solar system beyond our own, and throughout gal-
actic space. Each system has its own spiral of evolution in a manner
similar to the spiral of evolution of the microcosmic man. Now we
will not need to consider any other evolutionary development, only
as it pertains to the lik,eness of man, for MAN is the image of the
whole because life is endless, and is throughout the universe. The
Universe is the body of I AM and I AM is the All Eternal Light, im-
pregnating , impenetrating, and infiltrating all life throughout the
Universe. He is the Beginning without End and the End without
Beginning.
We shall assist you in all types of things to come but our mi s-
sion is a little different from that of the rest of the planetary vis-
itors, our brothers of space of the Universe. Our mission is a little
different but it is of the Light and Godly Might.
Remark: As I understand it , you have just been observing us
and will not take any part until we are farther along with the New
Age and require your assistanoe. Is that right?
That is correct. ---------------------------·····
(The remainder of this talk was of a personal nature concern-
ing members of the group).
Channel: LeRoy Roberts.
An Ev€ning's Session With Ashtar, Esu and Leto
(Exact date not given. Late 1958 or early 1959)
LETO SPEAKING: Greetings! Be raised in Thy consciousness
to the atmosphere of this little level that I may be he ard! I can
speak to you of the Wisdom of the Infinite Light, that whic h you al-
ready know, but only tolerate, and so do not digest. Be heard within
thy soul and climb not the ladder without knowing, but be ye ever
tolerant of the Voice of the Infinite through sound, both in music
and in words, lest ye be misled.
Hear me! I am not the one upon whom you called* but I am
ONE transmitting from Universal Mind, speaking to souls of great
hunger, desiring to hear words that will teach the Mighty Truth of
Life. GO into the mountains of your very inner soul and KNOW
Thyself before thou wouldst climb the ladd er of perfect knowledge.
It is not a difficult task; it is not impossible to accomplish.
This is but the simple way taught by OUR BROTHER, HE who
said: "Come ye unto the Father as little children and you will be
shown the way." Ye will be shown the way step by step, inch by
inch, and thought by thought.
70
BEHOLD, the Light dwelleth in the l,eaf of the grass and the
grain of the sand, and the stone, needle within needle of the pine,
and within them is greater wisdom than man has to this day ex -
pressed in all of his glorification of self accomplishment, for he has
the universe to work with and the good trees and earth, the air, and
the water; yet we came not to hear these simple lessons that Thou
hast laid down in kindergarten but we came to give you the lessons
of the inner soul; knowest thou thyself?
Has thou gazed deeply within thee? Hast thou understood the
principle of God within each other? Does the pulse of your heart
give you the rhythm of truth? Man is a world within a world, within
a world, within a world, and yet knows nothing of himself.
It is simple. It is TOO simple for it is too small a grain of sand,
this truth that ye need to know. Man must have something to
digest which is of mystic darkness, height, solidity, or an impossi-
bility. This is what his creation has brought upon himself in body
and soul and yet he holds a world within a world in the world of
man, his mind, body and soul.
* The Group had asked for Ashtar.
Hurry not to perfect these lest ye go astray, but go slowly and
thoroughly and meekly and know thyself, and love ye another, and
be forever at peaee ! ........ PIDACE ........ PIDACE ........ PEACE!
ASHT AR SPEAKING: Good Evening! Blessings of Life to all
Earthlings! Beloved Ones, I believe you know who I am?
Remark by Group in Unison: Yes - We believ ,e it is ASHTAR!
ASHTAR continues: Yes, this means a guardian, a helper, an
emmissary of the Light Eternal! I need not comment on too much
- that is, on things that have already been said concerning the
Divine pathway! Too much has been said already, and things may
get boring after a time, although we cannot say these things too
much because life is like unto an endless ladder, an endless stair-
way climbing upward - up and up - into the everlasting, the ever
moving, the ever progressing, the ev,er-lasting PRESENCE of His
Being. You are now breathing His Being. You are the MOTHER,
the FATHER CREATOR; you are living in HIM!
The Spark of Light becomes STARLIGHT unto the climbing
of the ladder unto Thine own self. Know ye that the stars of the
universe are Beings, Cosmic Beings who have ascended, or evolved
upon a higher spiral of Cosmic Light. Attune thyself to the Cosmic
·voice that speaks through music, that speaks through sound , that
speaks through air, that speaks through light; every living thing
speaks His Voice - the Voice of the Spheres! When you know this
and feel this and be this, you are truly in His Being; you are in the
eternal state of His Being.
May these words I speak be a wand yielding Golden Light to
encircle you - surround and caress you in the work you are doing
and all other groups throughout this planet, and may they be a
verification that we are with you, and that you are with us because
we are in the ALL-LIGHT in ONIDNESS of thought and purpose
71
for a renewal of the Light-Forces of this planet. You are in that
light; we are in that Light! I have not spoken to you before but now
I have spoken because of the wishes of Esu. BI,essings to all of our
loved ones of earth. May the cosmic wheel - the wheel that is
within a wheel, figuratively sp,eaking - sweep you up and release
you into that great Presence and the Universal Mind. Remember to
keep your feet on the ground and your mind amongst the stars for
your foundation in Christ will rock the earth; truth will change the
earth; and the illumination of this planet earth will come into the
freedom that the Masters have long envisoned for you to receive.
With our assistance we trust there will be no dissolution or des-
truction which was so dangerously near.
Remark : We thank you. We accept that challenge, Ashtar. We
will do our best to fulfill the confidence that has been placed in us
and in thos ,e who have been working elsewhere.
I shall withdraw, and in the Name of the All-Light, blessings!
ADO-MOK-KAN-SHAKA. In the Light of the EVERLASTING, your
destiny is the GOLDIDN Destiny! RIVE-REVONKA - VISHAN -
VI-SHAN-KA-VO! MASA-DO , Masa-Do!
ESU SPEAKS: BELOVED SOULS OF MY LIFE there was on ce
a time when I made the statement to the world of My Time and
Place that where "two or three or more are gathered together in
My Name , there I AM in the midst of them." Ye have gathered in
this dwelling place, and I say unto you that where two or three or
more are gathered to worship with sincere love and humility the re
shall I stand in their midst, and I also ask you to remember that
this shall be for others of the Ascended Host of Light besides Myself
for we have many Flowers, and many Jewels of Life to offer which
anyone who has not y,et attained unto the ascension of their being
cannot give to anyone . It is a most blessed EVENT when any who
are in the unascended state gather together - if they be sincere -
for by working tog ,ether they can gather their forces for greater
effort and service to mankind. In this day there is great need to
stand together and call forth the Mighty Powers of the Ascended
Host of Light, for as ye call forth these powers in harmony and in
truth, you shall set forth into Motion the Powers of the Universe at
your command , and shall bring into greater action the Ascended
Master Consciousness in all of your physical affairs.
There ave those who work at one place for many , many years.
Many years they do the same kind of job, work at th e same place of
business , and NEVIDR do anythin g to learn something new or dif-
ferent. I say unto you that it is good to be steadfast in your physic al
affairs, to love your family, and to striv ,e in service to others, but
HOW MUCH BETTEJR it would be to learn how to keep your at-
tention on the Greater Perfection of Life than may come to you by
keeping your attention on the Mighty I AM Presence of which ye
are a part in My Heart. As you learn how to keep your attention
upon your own I AM Presence and use all Space Beings of Light,
you open for yourself a step forward in the USE of Greater Powe rs
72
than you have now, and you can only do this by making a greater
demand on the Cosmic Law .
Therefore, in calling forth Our Consciousness , close thy eyes,
open thy mind, and project outward thy thoughts into space, and
visualize the ONE with heart and mind, and we will be with you for
there is no limitation in Higher Divine Mind. There ceases to be
limitation as ye progress in an understanding of this Great Cosmic
Truth of which ye are a part.
O How frequently you are caught up in the world illusion! You
do not see clearly the Path that is strewn with thorns, and that
keeps you bound to the wheel of death and servitude. There is a
Beginning and ther ,e is an End; there is a line to be drawn where
you must learn to perceive. Truth that will set you free from these
outer conditions which bind you to the wheel of one incarna tion
after another. You must awak,en to your reality of life and demand
the outer self to instill itself into the Heart of the Presence , where
you will RISE . above these dangers , catastrophies and thought of
disasters. Be not dismayed if I say that I am NOT greate r than you
but like you as one of My Fellowmen, that , though you may con-
sider me the Higher , I am, indeed , the lower, seeking constantly
ever to bring unto you the truth of these Great Gifts so that you
will become stronger and reach unto our OUTPOST and Dimension
of LIFE.
In time to come , I shall mak ,e an Appearance to the people of
earth to give Life new meaning and purpose but you must be pre-
pared for this transmission of Light into your consciousness lest it
pass you by and you know it not. If I AM Consciusness is to come to
THEE, you must reach out your Hand and Believ,e in Cosmic Con-
sciousness , THINK about Perfect Understanding and FEEL in your
heart Perfect Enlightenment to give your existence ESSENCE , and
to OPEN a channel for greater ACTION of Love in Truth and Light .
So, beloved Souls. be not dismayed by troubles and tribulations for
when they come in thy pathway, they are only obstacles to prove
that you can throw off these yokes that would bind you . for Divine
Light cannot be giv,en to you until you do. You can do this best by
tran scendin ~ your limitations and thou ghts of Jove. thou ght s of
goodne ss. of understanding, and healin g, proj ecting them from you
as Great Beams of Light , Love and Purity. This is your service, your
duty , and your desire to mankind. S,o go on your way and str etch
outwa rd thy hand, and expand thyself in thy doing , k,eeping ever
entrenched in the Cosmic Light from My Heart and Presence
throu gh I AM that sent Me to you, which ye called forth earlier in
the ev,ening.
NOW if you will stretch out your hands and concentrate for a
moment on the finger tips of your fingers you will feel the healing
force and Cosmic Healing Rays going forth into space. Let it surge
for a moment. Send it forth that you may know this Great Surging
73
Action of My Love for Thee, and through thee. All is well; all is
wonderful ; all is PERFECT, and as it should be. Know this and you
will learn to see all life with the EYES OF PERFECTION. Thank
you! That is enough as I merely wanted you to see and try to feel
this surging energy flowing into your being. Feel it, and you will
know it as it is from the Cosmos, from the endless creative forces
uf Life.
Q: What is the cause of this feeling I have of lead in my hands?
Is that because of healing energy going into the hands, or going
ouC
You are receiving energy but if your hands feel heavy this is
caused by the condition of the blood, or from tension in holding out
your hands. Inhale deeply and exhale fast, a few times, to clear car-
bon dioxide from the blood. It will help to change molecular action
and circulation.
Q: Can we receive healing for one who is in this house who
needs it? She has just come home from the hospital , and is in need
of healing.
She is already receiving healing! May the Light be in her! Just
send healing to her.
Remark: Yes, not only physically , but mentally, and spiritually
as well!
Keep thy pathway straight because there is only One Highest
Patriarch and that is the Father of your being. BA-CHIN-KO
BA DE-0 MANA-CHI-KO NIN KO BADO, MANA BA CHINCO, I AM
the key and the KEYHOLE- Both through the DOORWAY of the
Inner and Outer SELF into Eternity. I send you My Love. Thank
you and Good Night!
LETO SPEAKS A:GAIN: It may be only superfluous to say that
God is Love after so much has been said about it but you are seek-
ing, yourself, to enter into space consciousness and to receive of
this space achievement, let us forever remember "In the beginning
was the word, and the word was God, and the Word was of God."
This is your key; God is Love; Love is Light and when you desire
to reach SHAMBALLA to reach perfect understanding enlighten-
ment, or of progress in the Universal Cosmos, you may do so by
scientifically searching to serve humanity in the flesh, but you
should remember the password; "God is Love, Love is Light" and
that He calls to our brother upon the earth to lift up his coun t en-
ance to the Light, and these are but channels revealing the way ,
speaking words of Truth as they may seem to be. Know ye, how-
ever, that truth is a fleeting thing, not to be cast off lightly , or to be
put on as a cloak to carry you over the puddle, but is as a JEWEL
which you should polish, and reclaim, and CHERISH as your very
own. Truth is a changing condition, changing from one momen t
to the next, and never quite the same. So we must send forth this
thought of Love to you. Fear not, lest you be interfered with. Give
74
no power unto the darkness, or to the ones who might interfere
for as you mention them you build up a proportionate attention
and you are giving them power . Please, when this thought of dis-
ruption, interference, and correction is needed, say over again, a
million times if need be - God is LOVE, Love is LIGHT, and no
shades can exist in a HJOUSE OF LIGHT.
This is LETO!
Channel: LeRoy Roberts
Mon-Ka Of Mars Discusses Earth's Rocket
Programm€·
14/4/59.
WELCOME AGAIN MY CHILDREN - STUDENTS, - to the
science classroom where we shall study for a few moments the
Cosmic Science of the universe and give you some of the answers
to the problems which confront you.
I am Mon-ka from Mars. We would prefer that you call it
Maras for that is the name which was originally given to our planet.
Ye of earth have known it as Mars. Also know that ye have a ten-
dency to abbreviate things. You have a tendency to rush to and fro,
hither and yon, stirring up things around you, chopping them off
and to do things half way with only a little smattering here and
there - starting too many things with nothing finished. That is the
cause primarily of your chaos and confusion upon your planet
at the present time. There are abbreviations and shortages of plans
for development of useful things for all people. Only part of the
people can utilize these things .
You ar ,e spending enormous sums of money on programmes
which are completely useless, which are completely contrary to the
Cosmic Concept which we of outer space have conceived for our
planet and which we ar ,e utilizing.
We have in mind at the present time your program of rocket
development. If you are not careful this will develop not only into
a rocket programme but a RACKET PROGRAMME which it al-
ready has become. We are interested in these rockets because
you have placed them in the atmosphere of your earth. You have
been placing them beyond the earth's atmosphere also rockets that
are deterimental not only to your atmosphere but to us as well.
Money is being spent to recover the so-called nose cones of
these rockets on their return to earth . We want to give you a little
information at this about one or two of these nose cones which you
shall never recover. When one of the important rockets was sent in-
to stellar space a few months ago, SIX of our space craft intercepted
and took the so-called nose cone of this rocket as it was ready to
rec~de_ back into ~our atmosphere . We took it by pla:cing a mag-
netic field around 1t. It was taken to our planet for observation and
study. But know ye also that THIS FACT IS KNOWN TO YOUR
MILITARY because it appeared upon the radar screens of one of
75
the observation points . This information is being WITHHELD and
is strictly taboo. Those who saw it and r,ecorded it have been sup-
pressed and relieved of their duty with penalty of death if they
should reveal any fraction of what took place.
Know ye also that a report will be forthcoming from our planet
and will be giv,en one in HIGH AUTHORITY when the proper time
arrives. It will be a mystery where this report came from because
none upon your planet will know of the information contained
therein. Know ye that there is great confusion upon your Planet
SHAN; there is great chaos in the minds and hearts of those who
are in authority. There is consternation - yea, among those on
BOT.H SIDES of this so-called fenoe. This confusion and chaos
will continue for sometime yet, until it reaches a crescendo when
someone may make a mistake.
Know ye that when this mistake is made-and should a mis-
sile containing a war head emerge from either side of the fenc e,
we will intercept it. We will remove by magnetic field the firing pin
from this war head and will return the missile to the place from
whence it came. This will be not only a mystery but will also add
consternation and they will not know what has happened.
We are keeping close watch upon your science. Some of it is
very GOOD. .Some of it will advance your civilization; some will
RETARD it for thousands of years. There is one method by which
you can accomplish the progression of your planet and that is by
your thoughts - for THOUGHTS are TIUNGS ! As this little group
is gathered here along with hundreds of others throughout this
galaxy of yours, know ye that much of the confusion and chaos
can be alleviated by THOUGHT POW!IDRalone. If you think right-
ly, you will live rightly. If you project your thoughts correctly to
those in AUTHORITY, they will stop and ponder whether or no t
their actions are correct. You may be able to avert many things
upon your planet which have been predicted to come to pass.
We of MARAS have not been idle; we have not just been wait-
ing and watching. We have been doing. We have be.en on the aler t
to see 'that nothing happens, that no one makes a mistake which
will be fatal to both your civilization and your planet. But know ye
that some damage has already been done. This damage we cannot
rectify because, as you have been told by others, we can only place
certain obstacles in the way which will prevent a major catas-
trophe. The minor ones will come and they will come quickly so
that it will be over with S,OONER than you have expected - even
sooner than some of us have predicted! Be not dismayed but be
alert and be as channels of LIGHT at all times, telling those about
you what you have learned, what you see and what we have told
you of truth. We are chiefly concerned with your science , your reli-
gion, and your spirituality. The two must go hand in hand. Your
religion must become more scientific and your science must be-
come more religious. We will recede again because we cannot give
you too much. Good night! May God bless you abundantly .....
Channel: Zelrun Karsleigh
76
Monka of Mars Gives A Further Discourse on
Interplanetary Communication
Greetings, people of earth. I am Monka. It is indeed my privi-
lege to address all of you at this time. I have consented to several
questions presented by your people. You may proceed.
Q: Monka, many people have enquired about the way your
people have found to communicate with people of earth. Do you
care to enumerate the ways or some of the ways in which this is
done?
Regarding the various methods we have of communicating
with your peoples, we face a number of unique problems . Let us
say that the determining factor, first of all, in any communication
is the method of reception employed. In reception we have the
methods of impressing upon the minds of various individuals,
through both mechanical and what your people would call electron-
ic means, by employment of certain fields of force that may be
beamed in various directions to cover either a larg ,e or small area.
By using these beams we may transmit data or information. This
information may be converted to the type of receiver used. Let us
say that in the case of one who is an adept and that which is known
to your people as impressed writing, that the mind of the individual,
so ,employed as a receiver, is conditioned by choice, or by the im-
pression of an external field. The mind then unconsciously directs
and controls the necessary muscular reactions to form a style of
penmanship ·and also of th~ characters to form the words into the
language us,ed. In this manner a complete communication may be
delivered while the individual is used as such a receiver.
In the next instance, where the reception known as radio is
employed, the communication may be delivered either directly by
one of our large communication centres on a planet, or through re-
laying facilities of one of our space-craft which, in turn, is broad
cast upon waves electro-magnetic in nature. These waves are then
received by ordinary means of radio communication. We can beam
this type of reception over a large area, or it can be confined to very
narrow limits.
Another type of communication involves what is known as im-
pressing information upon what your people refer to as a beam
of light. In this case there are certain types of material that dis-
play qualities that are sensitive to light vibrations known as infra-
red. A special receiver already known by your people is capable of
receiving pulsations of infra-red light and converting them into
audible sounds. It may be scoffed at by some, but infra-red rays
of light ar,e capable of greater span of distance than any form of
77
commnuication known upon your planet. We have for a great per-
iod of time used this as one method for a permanent network of
inter-galactic communications.
Perhaps one of the most interesting methods of communica-
tion used by us is yet known in our terminology as a tensor beam.
In this instance a cone-shaped field of magnetic radiation of a wav e
length, unknown to your pr,esent technology, is projected by eithe r
a craft in your immediate vicinity or directly from one of our large r
communication centres. This which is called a tensor beam consist s
of three types of magnetic phenomena occurring simultaneously.
Let us call them for the sake of illustration, a core surrounded by
two concentric tubular layers of magnetic substance. The centr al
core is a type of magnetic radiation two inches in diameter which
when projected, acts on the brain of the reoeiving person. The inter-
tubular layers control the immediate physical environment of the
receivin g person and extends exactly four inches beyond the area
of the body of the person engaged in reception. This picks up the
emanations of the mind of the individuals present about the receiv-
ing person. This serves as a carrier for returning their thought
to our monitor.
Q: Monka , how are you able to express yourself in so man y
different languag ,es?
For your information, we have at our disposal a device which
does not rely on vocal translations of our language into yours , al-
though it can be so employed. The method used consists of a suit-
able field of induction which picks up our thoughts directly and
then converts them into impulses suitable for transmission by ten-
sor beam, which in turn are interpreted and acted upon by the
mind of the receiving person . This device which we call an edi-
phone is the machine used to translate our thoughts into impuls es
and suitable for transmission. A translation into your language in
the case of the tensor beam is accomplished through the mind of
the receiver . I might mention that the effects of a tensor beam
communication on an individual results in several interesting fac-
tors. One factor in our communication is the sometimes limitin g
effects imposed by the scope of the receiving person's vocabulary.
Often, however, entirely new concepts are implanted upon the mind
of the receiving person. This is dependent upon the degree to which
the receiver is in tune with the transmitting station. A mechanic al
vocalator is used where radio or light beam is the communcation
method ,employed. Let us explain that the mechanical vocalator is
a device which converts thought into oral expression.
Q: Monka, have your people on any occasion used the medium
of the telephone for communication purposes.
78
This medium of communication can be utilized on occasion;
however we do not favour this method. When it is so employed, the
mechanics needed could result in a failure of the circuits involved
in the communication or, in some instances, replacement of your
equipment.
Remark: Thank you, Monka. This is enlightening and refresh-
ing information.
Channel: Dick Miller.
On Interplanetary Communication. An Explana-
tion by Kebo-Sha of Saturn.
21/4/59
I am Kebo -Sha from Saturn. No knowledge, no substance of
LIGHT is withheld from any inhabitant of the universe who asks in
LOVE and LIGHT and opens the heart and mind to receive that
LIGHT and knowledge of Universal Wisdom of the ages.
You have asked and you shall reoeive*.
You thought this message should have been from Maras. The
Saturnians and the Martians work in very close conjunction. These
are very complicated matters for your finite minds of earth to grasp.
They are not mysteries but operate upon the inexorable laws of the
universe which apply to man, beast or rock and the knowledge of
these laws are available to all inhabitants of the universe just for
the asking.
Your Channel number is Y 785. Generally speaking we hav ,e
three different TYPES of what you term broadcasts to your planet
Shan. These are not frequencies but TYPES of transmission which
you call by various names; tensor beam, telethought , solotron, etc .
But for your understanding we have termed them X, Y, and Z rays.
Your associated channel of the Light with whom you are in com-
plete rapport and must remain so at all times and under ALL cir-
cumstances, trying and otherwise, is tuned to the X rays. We are
developing another channel in your group who will receive, if all
goes well, on the Z rays.
Know ye that all of these so-called channels ar,e important for
the unfoldment of disciples of the LIGHT on the upward spiral and
let there be no jealousy or discord of any kind relative to this re-
ception, thinking that one is "higher" than the other, for you know
that God or the Creator of the Infinite Intelligence or whatever ap -
pellation you wish to use is no respector of persons and least of His
creations is just as important as the Highest. W,e have been experi-
menting with you and developing you for months. The exact fre-
quency of your reception has not been decided. The number pre-
ceding the letter indicates the freqquency band of transmission;
the letter the TYPE or atomic structure of the "rays" and the
numerals the identification number of the channel, of which we
79
have now catalogued and indexed in OUR communication centre
on Mars, over 12,000 channels , past present and futur ,e, which are
to be used in "Operation Deliverance" now imminent for your
planet Shan. We coined this word for you a matter of years ago
before you knew much about what we were trying to accomplish.
Now to clarify some of your confusion and give a little more
scientific information on our methds and engineering. The "Broad-
casts" to you - we will use this term although it is not quite des-
criptive - is beamed to you from a point approximately 2·0,000
miles out from Mars on a direct line with the axis of Polaris . The
angle of transmission is approximately 65 degrees from this line
and must be constantly compensated for, due to semi-constant de-
viation of your planet's orbit. We use the term semi-constant here,
as this will be explained to you at a future time. It has to do with
the lunatics on your planet who are now exploding atomic bombs.
'*'For an explanation of interplanetary communication.
The space station from which your Y-rays originate on this
Celestial roadway is known in your parlance as Shas-talla . In order
to satisfy your curiosity as to why we do nbt broadcast to you
direct from the communication centre on Mars, be it known to you
that we have hundreds of such arrangements known as relay sta-
tions, and this arrangement is neoessary in some cases from an en-
gineernig standpoint.
In the case of the Y-rays, they are of such frequency and atom -
ic structure that they would be absorbed by the "magnetic" field
of Mars and would not get out of her atmosphere just as your radio
waves are bounced back by your atmosphere and do not go beyond
that point. There is also another advantage to a relay station. Any
message, anywhere within the receiving range, even from another
galaxy may be "converted" to the frequency beamed to you muc h
the same as you convert frequencies in your radio and TV receiv-
ers. I am beaming this message to you now directly from 01:1r
com-
munication oentre on Saturn, which, in your confusion, you thought
should be coming from Mars, but I am using a frequency which can
be easily received at the relay station and then converted into X, Y
and Z rays whichever the occasion demands.
I hope this will clarify for you some of your erroneous think -
ing that these Etheric Beings are comnig to you and your beloved
X channel on different frequencies. Yes, it is true that each of us
have diff,erent frequencies which we use to beam our messages to
the relay station, but it all comes to you on ONE frequency . What
you have erroneously classified as frequency is units of POWER .
Our unit of power is known as the DICRON. One dicron of our units
is comparable to 1 million of your watts. Incidentally the power
used in the transmission to you last Sunday was of the order of
20,000 dicrons. An entire treatise can be written on this subject
alone and at a future time we will giv,e more information about it.
But let us go into the matter of power a little further. As I said
before, we have been experimenting with you for many months both
80
as to the proper frequency and power to which you could tune your
consciousness for efficient reception. We have not assigned the
exact frequ~ncy as yet, but it is tentatively agreed upon and is very
close to the frequency upon which you are r,eceiving this message.
It is slightly different from that used on SiUnday.
Why did we send you out to Blesthaven Sunday night? Cer-
tainly NOT for a ride in one of our Celestial vehicles or even a
sighting. We wanted the X and Y channels to be close together for
a very important experiment which we felt necessary to be carried
out. The experiment came out to our complete satisfaction and we
thank you for your obedience, because nothing can be accomp-
lished in the work which you and this group has been assigned to
without OBEDIENCE, and obedience to the minutest mandate is
necessary ,even if it appears to you at the moment silly or fruitless.
It all fits into the complete cosmic plan. So, carry on, OBEY,
PRAY, MEDITATE, WRITE, SPEAK or whatever else we give you
to do without hesitation, complaint or recrimination and this goes
for ALL children of the Light, wherev ,er they are , and whatever they
are, whether they are Universariums, Unariusians, Aetheriusians
or what have you.
Now a few more words about power. No matter how much
power we expend in the transmission of a message, it is of no
value unless you have a receiver. We will liken this wholP. thing to
your radio system so you can understand it. You have the crystal
s,et and you have your multitube su:per-heterodynes that operate a
speaker . You are now receiving on a crystal set. It is not necessary
that you operate a speaker because there is no one to whom to
speak. All that is necessary in this case, is that the motive power
from your body is sufficient to transmit the messages received to
the keys of the typewriter. All inspirational writing is received in
this manner - on a crystal set, so to speak, whether it is trans-
mitted from our relay stations in the ethers or whether it comes
from the etheric CENTRE of communication in the Atmosph erian
Heavens. Know ye that there is one there too. You will learn about
this later. Now what happened Sund ay? You had prese nt a very
powerful "5 tube superheterodyne" which acts as an audio ampli-
fier to brin g to the vocal chords of either the X or Y channels the
messages we desire to tr ansmit and you desire to receive. In the
case of a group , the group as a whole becomes a part and parcel of
the receiver. You only had a 5-tube receiver Sunday night , but each
tube was functioning at its maximum efficiency and developed
enough speaker power to bring in each channel clearly. The mech-
anics of this is not clear to even your advanced technical mind but
will be revealed to you as time goes on.
Let us suppose that there is within a group desirous of receiv-
81
ing messag ,es some person who is not in harmony with the philo-
sophy or teachings or even present for the purpose of detecting
fraud in the prcedure. If the group is large and there is a preponder-
ance of efficiently functioning "tubes" there will be little effect
upon the reception, but if the group is very small and the same con-
ditions prevail, the "bad tube" might have the effect of "short cir-
cuiting" the entire receiver and we would be in the position of hav-
ing set up our equipment in inviting our speakers and broadcasting
to a "dead" receiver.
As a final word, let me stress what obedience means - obedience
to the minuest detail or inspiration or instruction. It means first the
deflation of the ego, and my beloved channel of Light, you have
much ego yet to deflate. You were much concerned on many occa-
sions when you were left out of a meeting or could nt be the big "I".
Oh, how long? How long? How long, ye children of the Light
will ye carry around you this ego as a millstone about your neck?
There were several of our children who resented the fact that they
could not go with you on your mission Sunday night. You obeyed
our instructions to the letter. They obeyed also but begrudgingly,
thinking that your ego was manifesting when it was only their own
and not yours. You did not know what your mission was, and felt
disappointed and thought that perhaps you had done something
wrong and felt guilty for excluding those who we definitely told you
beforehand ·should not be sent. Not until now did you know the
answer, but know ye that we will not suspelnd you long in the
spider's web of doubt - only so long as it is necessary to hold on a
certain plane of consciousness where we can apply the refining
fire of our alchemical laboratory to your karmic ego.
In order to give you further release from this web, I will inform
you that the message you received whHe waiting at Blesthaven,
''What shall we do with Karsleigh and Roberts?" was transmitted
only a few megacycles from the frequency we had sel,ected for you
and was transmitted only to test the sharpness of your selectivity.
Also the instruction to be patient and wait, was NOT for a sightin g,
but that you would stay there long enough that we could comple te
the experiment which was completed to our complete satisfaction.
Your co-channel X was much disturbed that he could not re-
ceive anything, but that was all a part of the experiment. We have
been beaming to you some of the same information he had been
receiving simultaneously on your respective rays and we wanted to
be sure that they would not mix, or heterodyne , so to speak and
mix you up. This is a difficul t task, even for us, with our advanc ed
technological knowledge, and your obedience to our instruction had
advanced this research and knowledge both on our plane and you rs,
even though you had to be baptizezd with "fire" to co-operate on
this important mission.
82
Obedi,ence! Obedience! Obedience! 0, ye children of the Light,
when will you learn to obey, not only the Voice within, but the out -
ward manifestations of the Voice that bids you emerge from the
caverns of darkness into the eternal light of the New Age, where
darkness cannot exist.
So, now, we from what you call outer space, pronounce upon
you our benediction not alone as a channel of LIGHT but as a Dis-
ciple of the Christ within you and whose Disciple of old, Esu , shall
soon dispel the darkness of your planet Shan, by an effulgence
hithertoo unknown in our galaxy.
Shebonka, Kebosha, Ha-ma-lumba, S,e-ko-ta.
Channel: Zelrun Karsleigh.
The MasteT Answers Questions
(9/2 / 59)
GOOD EVENING BEJLOVED ONES OF THE ETERNAL LIGHT:
I have come for I AM with you always within your beings.
Peace, tranquility, serenity be with you! Know y,e, my beloved ones,
that I AM not the Creator; know ye I AM only a Son of the Light
which you too, in time will become; for you have all the potentials
of Christ-Light - of becoming a Christ Being - within you ...
becoming ONE with the Infinite ever-present within you . .. truths
without end flowing through you and transcending from you.
KNOW that I SHALL RETURN in the NEW AGE which is now
becoming manifest, becoming a reality only through the assistance
and aid of your beings. It is the Light within you awakened and
transcending forth unto those who do not yet understand the Light.
Illuminate them for this is the ONLY WAY that you shall have the
Kingdom of God in this New Dispensation. You are the instruments
and channels of the Light. Be not concerned with "indifferences"
in the masses but be concerned with the ones who are willing to
understand and learn the eternal truth that is to come unto this
planet SHAN.
Know ye that indeed, ye are the sons and daughters of God ,
gods in potential. For you see you are the Infinite within yourself-
within the I AM PRESENCE that is within you. When I spoke unto
the people in ages pasts I said, "I AM" meaning the I AM PR~
SENCE that is within you shall be your Teacher, your Guardian,
and your Illuminator, THE MASTER , for you will be the designers
of your own destinies in life here and life beyond this immediate
realm.
Know there are troublous storms raging throughout the at-
mosphere of your planet - EARTH. All seems calm, collected and
serene , but it is not. Underneath are fires burning, trying to destroy
that which is to come forth. Be not dismayed if things break out
and tribulations seem to arise in your midst for you will not be
harmed by these changes. You will be protected by the tube of
Light that is surrounding your beings. This tube of Light can be
83
experienced and felt as you travel your chosen pathway unto the
life eternal, into the realms of eternal joy, peace and happiness -
eternal wisdom, eternal knowledge - everything that is eternal.
You need not be dismayed because we are with you. The united
Forces of the Legions of Light from other planets, other solar sys-
tems, and other universes are with you. This great destruction -
and I say IF it must come - that is coming will be for those who
do not want to live in the divine law, the ones who cannot under-
stand or are rebellious and who do not want to accept the truth of
true being that is. Know ye that ye shall not be in this destruction.
We shall send out space craft unto you when the time is ready and
you shall be taken or protected from all that is below. Know ye that
the time is very short! Know ye are the ones to help to awaken the
ones who are ready to be drawn into this Light.
Q: How can we know who are the ones to be taken? Is there
some sign we can go by?
You will know when the time of emergency arises who will be
taken. Only the Father knoweth this! We do not judge who is
taken and who is not. But if you have the Light WITHIN you it will
be evident and we shall see it, and you shall be taken. The ones who
are not of the Light must go through this destruction for they shall
be in due time removed to other places for their evolution. But
remember, that does not destroy them - only temporarily their
physical vehicle. They must learn the difficult road because these
are laggards who must go through further experience. We must
hurry in this great task because time is short and we have short-
ened the time so that the destruction and time of reconstruction is
not prolonged. Know ye that a NEW HEAVEN will be upon th e
foundation of the Earth. The Kingdom of the Infinite Light will be
here.
People from other worlds, other planets, will come unto thee.
All shall be ONE. I liken them unto your neighbours. But the ones
who do not want to live in the divine law cannot be permitted to
escape the Earth into space, into that area of life-consciousness
that you call space, because they must first have Me in their hearts
before they can venture into the Infinite Mansions of the Fath er 's
house - the universe. If man were permitted to go out in his gre -
vious needs and deeds he could indeed conquer one thing and call
it his own when, in reality, all is of THE FATHER and nothin g be-
lon gs to man. It is only for man to use. The Father created all for
man to use, and everything belongs to everyone, not one man.
Anything less is greed for power and possession and will not
be permitted in any way. You see, that is what the Dark Forces of
the planet Earth are trying to do at this time. They are trying to
send out missiles and other things of destruction to conquer the
Earth, then the Moon, then Mars, then Venus. But they will not do
thls. THEY WILL NOT DO TIITS ! The United Forces of Light will
84
come by the millions to change the concepts of the world, and to
defend you, beloved ones of the Light.
Q: Can you tell us the nature of this destruction you say will
come?
You must become aware of the dangers of exploding hydrogen.
It will not - if it comes - be complete, but it will be great enough
to awaken mankind. It is too bad to know that the mass-thinking
of man must learn the hard way by going through such trials. If
only he could respond to the INNER VOICE within his being then
he could KNOW beyond all doubt what is to be in his being and
world. The I AM PRESENCE always knows all of this knowledge
for it is of creation. Yes, there will be great Earth changes. There
is bound to be, for mankind must be cleansed; he must learn how
to give up these ties of the mind that bind. An old continent may
arise and return unto you from beneath the sea. This United States
is to be built into a new foundation with fertile soils that will be for
the New Age, the New Era, the Light of the planet E'arth.
Q: Does this mean that man will all be destroy ,ed from off the
face of the Earth at that time?
No; there will be changes, not total destruction. This cleans-
ing process is necessary for the reconstruction of €arth.
Q: How can we further the Kingdom of Truth while we are
here now?
Know ye that ye are like beacons of Light sending forth, even
when you are saying nothing. Know, do, dare, and be silent! Be
examples of truth of what you believe and know to be! This is most
important at this time, because if you do not ground and anchor
yourselves in what you believe now - why later it shall be more
difficult to steady yourself with what you now have received.
Others will see this Light in you and act and respond unto it accord-
ing to how they are affected. Then you will carry on from there.
DO NOT FORCE ANYTHING, but let all progress naturally and let
all think these things over so that they may advance according to
their own God pathway.
Q: Who is the Creator, and what is His Name?
H1s name is in the wind. The Creator is the UNIVERSAL
SPIRIT - THE ALLNES ,S of Life. IT is both feminine and mascu-
line, positive and ne gative . It is the Universal Mind embracing all
You see, my beloved ones, in the so-called beginning, even before
the EARTH existed, even before any universes existed, ALL WAS,
ALL IS and ALL EVER SHALL BE THROUGHOUT ETERNITY.
This allness is divine intelligence; for nothing can come forth out
of nothing. There has to be SOMETHING because, if there were
not, you would not be. This divine intelligence IS NOW in your
being, in your Higher Self that you are now becoming slowly and
gradually aware of in your consciousness. Sacrifice is of the Higher
Self; selfishness is the opposite, of the lower self, which binds one
to matter. Matter is nothing in itself but frozen spirit. So actually
85
all is spirit, only materialized according to the mind activity of one's
being. Know ye that these things will come to you when you least
expect them . . . the realization of them.
Q: How much of our Bible is reliable? We know that it has
been translated so many times that we wonder what has been the
original Bible and how much is not? Which Bible would you say
we should use at the present time that will give us the clearest
meaning of what you would have us to know?
Look about you, look WITHIN your beings. Use your eyes, use
your ears, use the faculties that you have. This is the best Bible -
life .experience is the best teacher. There is truth in ALL things -
not all truth but some truth. You never reach the ultimate of truth;
it is eternal. Truth may be truth one day and the next day it may not
he.The ONE and ONLY truth is that HE IS the CREATIVE SPIRIT
in you; HE IS or you would not be! The Creative Spirit is trans-
cending love which is the foundation of the universe, the foundation
of all life, love, wisdom and the power will be given unto you when
you are ready to receive the higher things.
Q: Should we discard our present Bible then?
No. Many things written in the Bible are true. The words I have
spoken therein are true; but some of the histories are not. Judge for
yourself. Be not concerned with histories. Be concerned with TO-
DAY. NOW - or how it relates to the past in LIVE history- is the
most important of all. The eternalness of Being is NOW - living
in the NOW. There is no past and no future. ALL THAT IS NOW!
ALL IS IN THE NOW.
Q: Would you encourage us to read the present-day messages
that are coming through the various channels? Are they nearer the
truth and the Light than the epistles as we have them in the New
Testament?
Be it according unto you what you think truth is. You believe
what you want to believe. If it is truth it shall stand forth like a
beacon of light. There is no one absolute thing! All is change - con-
stant change. You were not the same today as you were yesterday.
Always you are changing. It is according unto you how fast you
want to change from the lower to the higher.
Q: What was your name on Earth and what was th e nam e of
the religious group to which you belonged?
Some called me Jesus and some called me Joshua, Ishuah,
Immanuel; but now the present name I prefer is IDSU- ESU mean-
ing "the ascended one" meaning that I had controlled - became
master over the elements of matter and ascended what you call
death. The name of the organization or "religion" as you call it,
was the ESSENES . The Essenes, my children, were a group of de-
voted souls who maintained a secret school. The secret teach ings
were only for those few who were of the Light because, were the
dark forces to learn of these trutlis, they would use them for their
own destruction. The secret teachings from the Universal Brother-
86
hood of the Light can only be given to th<'Jsewho are of the Lord -
who work for the constructiveness of mankind and to help their fel-
lowmen. It is an universal brotherhood and has come from times
past ... through the ages upon this planet. Other planetary beings
from other worlds come to join in the movement of helping the
people of Earth. Anyone who believes in the Light and is working
for the good of mankind is a part of the White Brotherhood. We
are in the invisible realms of the planet Earth, but we also become
visible at times according to our mission, according to what we are
trying to bring forth . ,
Q : Could you give us some information concerning the Cities
of St. John that lie to the East of us 'here?
The City of St. John is in the Mount Hood area which is anoth -
er one of the mountains of the forces of Light. The mountains are
places of spiritual manifestations - retreats and spiritual foci of
energy for the White Brotherhood - Mt. Shasta, Mt. Hood, the Teu-
tons, and Mt. Washington. MANY ARID BEING MATERIALIZED
FROM THE ETHERS OF SPACE FOR THE SECRET TEACHINGS
TO BE TAUGHT UNTO THE PEO,PLE OF EARTH - THOSE
WHO ARE READY. These cities are unseen though they are there.
They were built there in times past for the same purpose that we
are now building them again.
Q: Will they help us in spreading this information concerning
the Light that is coming into the world?
Yes. There will be certain groups who will be informed where
to go in the mountains to receive experience and teachings accord-
ing to their advancement and active faith.
Q: What must we do that we may be taken for a ride in a space
ship?
Certain ones are taken for rides, but mostly it is for what WE
want to accomplish . I know that you all here would like to take a
trip; but it isn't that easy. It is because some can not withstand the
vibration. There still is much work to be done.
Q: Is it wrong to ,eat meat?
Not if you do not think so, but in time you will see that it has
a lower vibration, and anything taken into the body will affect the
cells of that body. You might say that it is a secondary food where-
as the vegetable kingdom is better - and fruit. If you eat meat it
means that you must kill and to kill is to create FEAR vibrations
in the animals. When you partake of this meat you become part
of that fear of the animals that you have ,eaten. Do not be con-
cerned right now, but let your desire within you decide what you
should eat, or not eat. If you desire to have it taken away then it
will be taken away. It is not the best; but on the other hand it will
not harm if you go in moderation. Do not eat pork because it is the
lowest of all in its vibration. You may eat beef; but if you do -
CONCENTRATE it with light energy before you eat it. Visualize a
VIOLET RAY BEAM through yourself upward and through the
meat. Think this and it shall go forth and transmute the lower
87
atomic structure. If you can overcome eating meat do so because
it will only hinder you in your ascension into Light.
Q: How about fish, and fowl?
You cannot expect to undo all that has been done through the
years in one day. Th.is takes time, beloved ones ... time, and it is
all according to you and your will to succeed. We have lots of time,
but you have little time.
Q: We have little time! Can you explain this to us?
Time is a concept of man in the third dimensional world. If we
say there is only thirty years left to millenial we mean it is the
time you have to progress into the spiritual realms of Light or be
among those taken to another classroom, another body in space
of lower grade and density. It means that the planet EARTH must
come into the understanding of Spiritual PEACE or it will be des-
troyed, and there is nothing that can be done to prevent it. It is all
a part of the individual action of each soul who is in embodiment
at this time.
Q: Does this mean the whole earth?
No - just the surface!
Q: You mean this will be the hydrogen bomb of which you
spoke before?
No, this will be by our means. The FIAT has gone forth; it is
for you to accept, and become a part of this NIDW-A:GEKingdom.
Q: Then you mean this experience of the hydrogen bomb
might come before then?
YES ....
Q: Is that part of the prophecy that we have of the terrible
tribulation?
Y,es: this is not a 'scare' programme. This is a real danger.
Q: Will you come and manifest yourself to help the children
of Light in bringing the truth to the people of the world?
I will appear in the sky as a projection from the great star
ship - SHANSHEA that is orbiting your planet, making a second
moon. I will come forth through the beam of Light. It will be only
My IMAGE you will see at first. It will differ from what a lot of
people may expect. Not all will know that I AM here for it is indi-
vidual and will be for those who have ME within their. hearts .
Q: Is this as we are taught in Revelations about the Armies
of Heaven that will follow you when you come to Earth?
Yes. At first, there will be the IMAGE, then a space ship will
descend and land and I will come forth. Not all will know that I am
here but those who are prepared FROM WITHIN will be notified.
Many will come.
Q: Will everyone see the projection in the cloud? Will it be seen
over the entire Earth at the same instant, or will it be over a per iod
of a day or so?
It will be seen by many at a certain time, held for a time long
enough for all to s@e; then we will make a wordly announcement
88
through all communications - through _television, radio, and all in-
struments that we can use notifying all that we are coming.
Q: Can sincere study and the practice of Shin, or Zen, Budd-
hism lead to truth?
Buddha is the Christ of His people. I was the Christ of this
nation and other peoples through the line of Israel as it has been
expanded through the years from the time of the Divine Covenant
with Abraham by the All-Father. Anyone who is trying to send
forth truth is Christ. Christ means 'all knowledge, knowledge of
truth ." There are many ways to the heavenly Father - MANY
WAYS. Even the savages have ways unto the Father. There are
MANY ways that you can find the God within you - above and
through you .
Q: Can you tell us about the Jewish race? There is so much
being said concerning the Hebrews as to what part they will play .
Do they truly hold the important role that the Bible gives them?
The Hebrews are a people that are not at all any different from
any Anglo-Saxon nation, or any other nation. All are the body of
the Divine S,pirit, all are individualizations and manifestation of
His Creation .
Q: The returning of the Jews to Palestine - is that a sign which
God has given us that the time for Thy coming is near?
There are many signs given unto man that you may know and
receive. It is one sign you can interpret for truth.
Q: We have been told that you have incarnated many times on
the Earth. Is this so?
My children, it is very difficult for you to understand; but that
is the truth . I have come and worked in many different bodies and
have incarnated many times. Many Masters of the Light have in-
carnated many times, each time coming as a different person with
a different name - yet the same Being. The incarnation is not the
ultimate plan but it enables us to help mankind as much as we can
on this particular plane.
Q:We understand that our Bible has been garbled as to its
original spiritual intent. What can we believe especially of our
King James version?
If the Bible that you read says that Love is ALL, Truth is ALL,
Wisdom is ALL, Life E:ternal is ALL, then that is ALL that you need
to read. That is in itself ALL. If you read it with the viewpoint of the
higher, inner self, it will begin to reveal many things to you that
you may not now see.
Q: Could you give us a message for the group at this time that
would help us in our ability to work more in the Light and to over-
come the evil powers and forces that are about us?
If you feel not in harmony, ill at ease, think of the Light RAY
BEAM or FLAME going upward throughout your body into your
affairs, and then visualize the tube of Light around thy being, com-
89
pletely encompassing your being. In this way you will protect your-
self from these negative forces and all that is not of the Light. It
helps to enfold and build this into your outward consciousness, and
serves as a CUP OF LlGHT for us on the Ascended plane to dis-
solve out these conditions. Light always gives forth Light and
nothing else.
Q: Can we help others by thinking of the Light around them
to help them come into this knowledge?
Yes; anything you do from your knowlegde and use of the I AM
Presence is helpful. What you do for others to help free them will
help you but you have to learn the technique.
Q: What can we do to help our sons to understand and grow
into this Light?
Do not force; you can only do so much at a time for they are
in the growing stage. They must grow naturally by experience.
You can only tell them so much but if you do it in the right way
they will accept it finally. Some of these things must be experienced
before there is belief. Try to live by example as much as possible.
You need not say anything but make your CALLS through your
Presence to us, and we will help you as much as possible.
I am sorry but this is all I can give you now. The etheric ener-
gies are being depleted. May we meet again as you travel the
ROYAL ROAD to greater enlightenment and greater understand-
ing; and until we meet again may there BE Peace Eternal, Light
Eternal with you always, my beloved ones of the Cosmic Light.
Channel LeRoy Roberts.
Contributions From Various Other Sources
The Keys of the Kingdom
(Hawkes Bay, N. Z.)
Peace be with thee. Hast thou ought to say in this little hour
with thee, when speakest the voice of the voiceless? Art thou one
with the Father? Then, so be it, together we traverse the paths of
peace and, to our common good, together we peruse the manu-
scripts of Heaven, to nourish and bless our ·eternal life. We are all
one in mind and will, and in our undivided love for the life which is
ours and yours.
Greetings from the realms of Light from one who has long
been a dweller there. Words! What are they? Thoughs are living
forces, and by thought we reach mind to mind, from world to world.
encompassing this universe of life. There be a mixture of ancient
and modern pharseeology, but be not confused, one grows accu st-
omed to a manner of speech, even in thought. It is long since I have
spoken in words, and it comes strange to my understanding.
Unto thee I give the Keys of the Kingdom of Love. Is there
ought else thou couldst wish? If there be given great gifts on earth,
90
then dost thou give full appreciation of heart for the gift and the
giver. But give not to us your appreciation of heart my dear; we be
but the humble dispenser of these good gifts of our Father. Tis His
will we obey, and we have no will apart from His; so be you thank-
ful therefore for these gifts of the spirit to our great God, or Allah,
as one with powerful mind (whom thou art conscious of in thy
presence) would say. Let us mingle together then in thought, and
find now solutions of thy problems.
What are the Keys of the Kingdom? The Key is Love - univer-
sal - Love which embraces all manner of created life - in nature,
in animal, in human, in Angel, in Archangel, and in every living
creature. Love is Life; without it there is no life; there is annihila-
tion, extinction and nothing. Thou art evolved out of the love es-
sence of God; in His breath is the seed .of life. If it were not so
there would be no consciousness, no self of which to be conscious.
The seat of consciousness is in the soul and the essence of the soul-
force is Love. To be aware of this Truth thou has to be re-born
in the likeness of that from whence thou came. Thy life upon earth
is for the purpose of development of thy power of love, to create
for thyself a dwelling worthy to house thy Father. When thine eyes
were blinded, thou didst not see-, when thine ears were deaf thou
didst not hear, when thy soul slept thou wert unconscious of ought
but thy lesser world and its demands upon thy senses. But when
thine eyes were opened, and thine ears were unblocked, and thy
mind was awake to thy divine heritage, thou then didst FIRST
taste of the joys of that which is yet to be and partook of thy nour-
ishment and wert refreshed. Upon thy reflecting pool thy sight was
cast and thou sawest there the mirage of thy world and, liking it
not, thou didst set about to build anew, and when once again thine
eyes sought the pool of reflecting light, thou didst see a fairer vision.
The change was wrought by the miracle of love, and when
thine eyes again besought the pool of reflecting light, thou didst
see thy Father's face, and it pleased thee. Dost understand my
speech in parable? So be it! When thine eye beheld for the first
time thy Father's Face, thou wert afeared and covered thine eyes,
but when thine eyes grew accustomed to the light, thou didst gaze
in full and, seeing, thou didst understand. All this thou didst do in
thy past generation, in thy other world experiences. Now thou art
awake and ready to be given the Keys of the Kingdom and , whether
thou receivest them now or later, th ou wilt benefit by the knowledge
and thy dawning light.
Thou now lightest thy lamp with good oil, and it will fail thee
not or go out and leave thee in darkness. Love covereth thee like a
cloak, and sheltereth thee from storm but, unless thy will be strong,
thou canst not avail thyself of all thy Father's gift of lif·e. In wis-
dom wert thou created and thy seed was sown in good soil to bring
forth a strong virile tree which spreadeth its leaves and reacheth
out to embrbace others in the shelter of its overspreading branches.
The Key was given thee in Love's wisdom to open the door to thy
91
perfect understanding. When thou sawest through thy glasses,
darkly, thou didst see but a short distance and perceived not fur-
ther afield; now thou hast cast away thy glasses and seest with thy
sight undimmed, and seeing thou art well pleased.
Thou now hast thy mission to fulfil for thy probation is over.
thou art a disciple of the Light which cannot be hid and thou hast
to give an account of thy ministry to thy Father who gave thee thy
life and thy power to discriminate between the false and the true.
Thy soul was redeemed from thy lowly beginnings and didst find the
light of truth and became one with the Prophet of Nazareth; and
thy way was made plain before thee ....
It was Love alone which brooded over thee from thy youth,
into thy nativity and unto thy resurrection from the death of thy
early mistakes. It is love which restoreth thy soul. In the darkest
hour before dawn Love sheltered thee and kept thee from harm . All
thy life thou hast been blessed in it, and now thou stretchest forth
thy hand to receive the Keys of the Kingdom.
The first key is Love, and it is the greatest Key; the second is
wisdom; the third is understanding, the fourth is compassion; the
fifth is sympathy; the sixth, disconcernment, and the seventh em-
braces all in its consciousness - it is God, the giver of all thy gifts.
Receive thy Keys and go Forth and use them, each in its own sep-
arate administration and in its proper place; but use the first Key
to unlock thy door to the portals of thy mind where are recorded all
thy other treasures gathered during thy long journey from state
to state and world to world.
Thy knowledge brings thee thy responsibility. Thou canst be
false to no man while thou art true to thyself, for thou houseth a
God who is not deceived, and thy service beareth the mark of thy
Creator. Thou earnest forth from the love essence of the Father,
and now thou takest thy return journey back to the Source from
whence thou earnest ...
Thy light is thy guide, thy soul thy teacher, and thy heart the
revealer of all thou hast been since thy heart receiveth its knowled-
ge from One who errs not. Thou art released from thy early bond-
age. Go forth in peace and love for all. If thou hast thy soul quick-
ened to the voice of the voiceless thou hast learned much but, if not,
the delay of thine understanding matters not, for time is not, eter-
nity is everything, and Love is eternal. Peace be with thee and
thine for evermore.
92
The Philosophy of Love
(Hawkes Bay.)
Receive the benediction of the Cosmic Hosts and partake of the
radiations of the divine substance of Life, Light and Love.
Looking inside the storehouse of memory we find much to bless
us in our hours of tribulations as well as in our hours of joy. There
was a beacon set upon a hill , the hill of Calvary and one Man be-
came the Light of the world. The Light still sheds radiant beams of
energy towards mankind and ever will while the earth plane con-
tinues to hold within its atmosphere those created in the essence of
vital energy called love - the love which embraces within itself ALL
of mankind until the whole race lives, moves and breathes in its at-
mosphere. No other emotion felt within the human heart has the
power to raise the self OUT OF SELF, like the beneficient influence
of love. It causes man to become god-like in quality that his actions
yearn towards the good and true. No one who truly lives can ever
be labelled with the stigma of selfishness or disregard for others .
Its power-filled influence is to create in the heart the vibration of
self-less-ness. Love which IS love is universal, it absorbs all the
lesser vibrations of man's earthly conception of things and refine s
all the dross of the littleness of these lesser loves of self and changes
them into the force of godliness or goodness. It takes ALL human-
kind into the great throbbing heart which pulsates at a rate of
never-ending, never ceasing activity until the purpose for which it
was created comes into Life and ALL men bow in subjection to its
unfailing guidance in every sphere and progress.
This is the Law of God - nothing more or nothing less than the
force of Cosmic energy called Love. We have said that no man who
truly loves is selfish; it could not be otherwise. The very radiation
of this 'essence of life' active within the heart tends always OUT·-
WARD; it never seeks self aggrandizement, or ever desires things
for self , except when the self SHARES what it has with other s. It
spends itself in giving! giving!
Love of self is not God-like. It does not desire the good of others
but only is conc erned with the comfort and well-bei ng of th e pers on
conce rned . It is self-e st eem not love. God is not concern ed with His
PERSONAL self but only with His power to use that self in blessi ng
and upliftment for ALL cre ated things. The love of which we
speak is expressed in every worthy action. Man can say he loves
when his heart is filled with compassionate understanding - the
understanding which makes him FEEL sorrow in another's trouble
or his brother's need, without words, without the utterance of plea
or petition from his brother in need, by just sensing from the heart
of God a fellow creature's heart. When man or woman can feel
sorrow in another's trouble, can feel joy in another's joy, can feel
93
the innate goodness of one who sins and does not judge, can feel
unworthy to pass judgment on fallen man, when he can say he
feels these emotions he is beginning to love with God, and one day
he will be as God in his power to lift the fallen, to sucour the sor-
rowing, to raise the dead (in bondage) and USE his life in living
every breath in service.
This is not merely idealistic; it is practical. All men MUST ulti-
mately come to KNOW this truth before they can wear the garb of
a Master who feels the pulsations of the Universe in his own heart.
While there is left one lonely soul on earth the Master will not rest;
He must raise ALL men to the Father - the 'higher self' - and to the
pinnacle of perfection by the force of his imghty love - love made
MANIFEST ON EARTH. The Master works in the silence in the
human heart. The subject chosen does His will after centuries of
preparation to use the migh ty energy called by the sweet name -
LOVE. No man loves who profanes his speech with unworthy ut-
terances, who deviates from true speech in blasphemy of holy
things. He does not love when he uses his strength to hurt a weak-
er human being or treats any soul unkindly in thought, word or
deed. No man loves who will not be tolerant towards ALL other men.
All lesser qualities expressed by man are limitations - they imit ate
but do not possess. Unless you make ANYTHING your own by per-
sonal use it is USE-I.JESS to you; it is only a theory not a practice.
The greatest and highest power in life is Love; it is God Hmself,
and all He does works toward perfection. Unless you express your-
self in loving-ness-in-action, you have not lived - you vegetate and
are not as much use in the world as the smallest insect because even
that follows an instinct to do something worthy of its existence. So
all students on the Path are learning HOW TO LOVE and how to
USE the mighty weapon for the blessing of others.
All then can, with pride of possession, proclaim themselves
neophytes on the Path, for they are the humble followers of the
Great Teacher who gave the world its golden key of Love. The dif-
ferent schools of learning use different methods to unfold their
Love consciousness and all methods have their merits in so far as
they are stepping stones to the awakening of the self to the power
within to revea l the higher attributes of the soul. Growth is slow
by reason of man's UNWILLINGN:IDSSTO LEARN.
When the heart emotion is FELT continuously as a living active
power it operates its energy to good without ceasing. It never misses
an opportunity to serve - the smallest service done with love in the
heart which beats in attunement with them to do their work, just as
surely as the one who is Teacher does his - all work together for
good. One of the highest demonstrations vouchsafed to men is to
feel love in his HEART. Pity the one who cannot feel for he is sure-
ly bereft of the Light. And to all followers of the Great Teacher we
94
say that your greatest advancement comes to you when your per-
sonal thoughts reflect the purity of divine love. It is the greatest
and grandest experience any man can have to FEEL within him-
self pure holy radiations of Christ-like thoughts penetrate every
cell of his being with power; he is literally baptised anew in the
Waters of Life. All who use the positive forces of life in action, love;
all who use the negative forces in life, dissipate their energy and do
NOT love. When the human heart is quickened in the spirit ready
to feel this divine pulsation within, it must first of all learn to
overcome faults and failings and all obstacles, to surmount the dif-
ficulty of giving up habits which bind the self to earthly tastes and
desires.
Above all overcome the tendency to see flaws in others. No
student on the Path can progress while the eye beholds the 'unde-
veloped' good in another, in personal judgment. Learn first to see
the good, then feel the good, and expect with a lively expectancy
the hidden good to manifest. Be so busy on self improvement that
you will be too fully occupied to notice your brother's conduct. Tem-
per your opinion (never judgment) with mercy. That is to say , speak
in kindly tones of your brother and awaken within him the desire
to OVERCOME also. Even the greatest of Masters could not have
loved so perfectly had He not first of all overcome the weaknesses
of the flesh. In learning to OVERCOME learn also to BIDCOM'ID,
to do the things, say the things, live the things which will unfold
these higher qualities of your soul self. Deliberately set out to
CONQUER and to WIN using love as your guide and philosopher,
seeking the esteem of no man, asking favours of none save the re-
ward within of personal reprimand or commendation for work well
done according to the voice of the 'Spirit of truth' who does not
condemn or judge you but only directs you and guides you and
leads you to the Light of Understanding.
Live Love in every experience of life - that is in ALL your ac-
tions. Act in accordance with the higher dictates of the supreme
intelligence within you. Have a goal; then set out to achieve your
highest ambition and soon the old ways will give place to the new
and you will become worthy of the spirit of truth within you to re-
veal still more of the splendour of things to come. Use soft speech in
your conversations with man - much noise and the loud cackling
never had much power to raise an edifice or structure which sup-
ports the lofty 'Throne of God'.
This Love of which we speak is the same Love as was express-
ed in the sojourn of the Great Teacher; the self same love which
expresses itself in a mother's heart in the heart of all who 'love
unselfishly'. There is only ONE love; it is Universal, covering the
worlds in space seen and unseen with its emanations of perfection.
When you unwittingly trample on the heart of man, you hurt and
misuse the power. Between man and man there should be only con-
95
sideration and courtesy and the willingness to serve - never to hur t
or treat unkindly. When love is used universally its power will ex-
press perfection and every man, woman , child, animal and all na-
ture will do the will of God - which is to love without ceasing. Then
there can be no more wars of bloodshed; there can be no more
poverty or lack, or want of any good thing; there will no longer
be any need to fill the institutions with the maimed and the sick in
mind or body for that is all rooted in selfishness in the undiciplined
heart of man who has been led astray by the false things of the
outer self.
The inner-self with its CONTROLLED attributes of mind
serves humanity to the highest good of all, knowing the immutable
law that LIFE IS LOVE. We are using channels all over the earth
plane to teach man that the way of transgression is the way of re -
trogression and he must repay. Open the windows of the soul, be-
loved students on the Path, and let the rays of the Rosy Cross il-
lumine your WAY to that Peace Profound which no man can have,
except by way of the Cross - the overcoming process of purification
and the finding of the lost key of memory to teach of the loving
Parent - God. We used to say 'God of our heart' but now we say
'Love of our heart' for it is the ONLY power by which we participate
in the mysteries of the Soul.
In benediction we come, in Love we leave, and in memory we
hold you in the perfection of a great love - a love that overcomes
death, defeats the wrong application of power and brings the bless-
ing to all of life, Light and Love. We thank you.
Pass on our thoughts to all who would honour us with their
desire to FEEL the TRUTH in our unspoken thoughts expressed
so perfectly by one who is an adept in the art of recording these
Messages of Love - Peace be with you all.
Arnedas.
FAITH
(Received through M.L.C. of U.S .A.)
FAITH is as a shining thread of Light, leading straight to the
Heart of God! Faith and Prayer are an indestructible cable of Light
reaching to the Highest Heaven, making a return circuit to the
sender bearing the Healing Ray, the Ray of Supply, the Ray of Joy.
Let your asking be filled with Light and your needs shall be
supplied an hundredfold. This is the Law, given in many parables
by our Lord, Jesus the Christ. Think upon this until realization
comes; that AS ye ask ye shall receive! GOD IS!
I am of the Brotherhood.
96
As Breaks The Light Of AN ew Day
(Channel: "IDPH")
One day, many centuries ago, a group of Christ's disciples
standing upon a hillside watched Him ascend into the clouds and
heard a Voice saying, "Why stand ye gazing into the heavens?"
"This same Jesus," the Voice said, "will return in like manner as
ye have seen Him go!" This Finale to the Resurrection Story has
been recounted to millions of reverent listeners every Eastertide.
and through the intervening centuries countless thousands of be-
lievers have watched and prayed for the fulfilling of that Promise.
Untold numbers have openly scoffed at the possibility of any
such denounment and have ridiculed the idea that such a "Kin~-
dom" as Christ proposed to set up on this Earth could be within the
range of possibilities . Viewing the people of the planet Shan at this
time, individually and enmasse, one can scarcely blame them for
arriving at such a conclusion. Yet, remebering Jesus' own words
regarding what would come to pass immediately preceding His
promised return , does it not become apparent that He knew pre-
cisely what terrible conditions would prevail prior to His visible re-
appearance upon the Earth? When in the entire history of man-
kind has there been such an array of disastrous occurrences ratify-
ing the biblical prophecies foretelling "Wars and rumours of wars,"
floods, famine, earthquakes in divers places, hurricanes, volcanoes
and other dire calamities" so grievous that men's hearts sh all
quake with fear?" All this corroboration of events so long foretold
is daily spread before us by every media presented by the press for
public information. I merely call it to your attention that you may
intelli gently appraise the situation as of the present time.
Just as the birth of the Christ Child was foretold so many many
years before it took place and described in such detail that it was
readily recognized when it occurred, so the prediction of Christs
re -appearance mentioned a number of distinguishing features by
which its near approach might be apprehended. As has been pointed
out repeatedly in the past, the days and hours recorded by your
calendars and "precision watches" have little meaning and less
importance to Those who measure "Time" by the clock of mile-
stones in achievements and the "Calendar" of events which must
precede the culmination of any predestined crisis in earthly destiny.
Any date given by Those who contact mortals must be viewed
as APPROXIMATE, since there is no exact translation of "Time"
as we in eternity know it, into the artificial terms peculiar to mor-
tals . This applies to events of Cosmic import , not necessarily to
trivial happenings of daily life which are the direct result of causes
easily ascertained, dependent on earthly measurements of time .
Is not Time, as you know it, rather an arbitrary tliing? It is 9
o'clock in California ... you phone a friend in New York. As you
talk to him FIVE MINUTES. LATER he mentions it is midnight.
97
Are your clocks both correct? Someone writes of the "lovely sum-
mer weather in Australia ... why don't you fly down for a visit?"
You glance at your calendar. It is January ... a snow storm is rag-
ing. Is the calendar at fault? Was the "eternity" you spent in the
hospital waiting to know if the operation was successful REALLY
only two hours? Are your dependable time-pieces the only gauge
of "Time" even on the Earth?
No matter how serious the outlook may be, it is incumbent
upon us to take to heart the admonition of our Master to "Rejoice!"
when these evidences of impending doom appear all over the world,
"Knowing that your deliverance draweth nigh ."
The question often arises as to how, in the case of a "predestin-
ed" occurrence men's actions (constructive or destructive) can
either hasten or delay such a predetermined decision on the part
of the arbiters of earthly destiny. Yet, a clear concept of the na-
ture of "Time" is essential as a factor in the enactment of such a
contretemps, plainly indicating the extreme importance of men's
thoughts and consequent acts, since they exert a powerful influ-
ence on the MARCH OF EVENTS toward the Plan of the Creator
or its submergence into a quagmire of unpardonable maliciousness
and indescribable confusion.
No man or group of men can hope to convert or reform the
world at this time . Even the Lord Himself could not do that with-
out the supreme authority given Him to remove those opposed to
His commands. WHY? Because every living soul possesses that
one amazing Gift he cannot escape . . God's Gift of "Free Will!"
Neither can he escape his responsibility, for the use he makes of the
marvelous Gift determines his future status in the world soon to
be rehabilitated under the Divine Supervision of our coming Prince
of Peace!
Learned scientists have made splendid progress in their dis-
covery and manipulation of many intangible etheric forces and the
reactions caused by their fusion in various ways with known forces
and concrete substances . Yet it would be folly to expect the best
of them to know just what will happen when unknown Cosmic
Forces are released into the atmosphere of the Earth.
There are as many different areas of human consciousness to
be reached in the transfor mation of the world as there are material
changes to be made. Coincident with the bombardment of the
planet itself by powerful atomic currents of a highly beneficial
effectiveness, operating through unknown properties of Light in its
creative function ... there will be broadcast from Celestial sources
veritable cloudbursts of Love, Joy, Peace, Kindliness and Genero-
sity. This will so influence every type of human being then on
Earth ... mentally, morally, spiritually, intellectually and physi -
cally ... that they will gladly undertake and easily accomplish
tasks formerly beyond their ability. New desires, ideas and ener-
98
gies will be awakened which they did not know they possessed and
each will confer with his neighb our to determine how they may
co-operate for best results.
As you follow through in your own minds these hints of anti-
cipated changes in the entire motivation and pattern of earthly liv.:
ing, you will be able to add many attractive details to the picture.
So tremendous will be the improvements in living conditions in
every country that past suffering and privations will be forgotten.
Could any prospect be more thrilling? Await with joyous anticipa-
tion each fresh sign of His coming! Be prepared to do your part
in the re -modeling of a badly distorted world.
My personal assurance that, as one of His beloved disciples,
your present safety and future happiness are in capable hands .
Yours in the service of our Master,
"C . N."
MAGNETIC LIGHT
Light dissolves and cleanses all in its Path of Purity. When
this Pure Light floods the Earth, all evil will melt and dissolve and
Man will be able to make Greater strides for a New Way of Life!
The World will be flooded with this Magnetic Light soon to be re-
leased ... all will be cleansed and purified and a new awakening
of Light , Love and Life will ensue . It is in the making and soon will
be realized. All the storms play an important part and are a pro-
logue of the Finality.
Nature and Man will help to bring in the New Age now upon
Mankind!
_
(Received by E. F. of U.S.A. 4/ 3/ 1960) SO BE IT!
Ashtar Stresses the Importance of Light
(E. P. H. of U.S.A.)
To an y who have lived in the iridescent Light of the se higher
realm s for many millions of years, it is only na tu ra l th at Darkn ess
should be abho rre nt. It is also natur al that (when in the pursu ance
of duty such Dark ness is encoun tered) su ch an one woul d use every
mean s wit hin his power to dispel that Darknes s. Fro m the st and-
poin t of tho se dwellin g in the ser ene Light of con scious "One-ness "
with the omniscient Father of Light , no more appalling fate can
befall anyo ne than to be deprived of Light , either by delib erat e
choice or being forced to accept the darkness of intolerable condi-
tions they are helpless to rectify or escape. This latter, however,
need not necessarily extinguish their own Spirit-light[
We might explain that we existing in the higher vibratory
orbits do not see those in dense physical embodiment clearly until
we have mastered the ability which comes from diligent practice
99
or unless we use an instrument similar to your "eye-glasses" or
binoculars, altho' our "TV screens" depict any scenes and people
we wish. You can, perhaps, picture our homes on seeing an entire
planet submerged in a heavy fog of ever increasing density, in
many regions assuming the appearance of an impenetrable wall of
opposition to the tiniest ray of Light. Approaching close to observe
this phenomenon, however, we discovered MANY groups of in-
habitants who possessed sufficient light to shed their beams about
them and lighten the gloom. Even in the darkest regions there were
tiny, twinkling lights which could not be obliterated by the sur-
rounding Darkness. The dazzling blaze of artificial lights we en-
countered often appeared to blind the inhabitants to the evil de-
signs of those who diverted this marvellous blessing to their own
perverted purposes. When we lowered our own vibratory rate to
become visible and attract the attention of those we hoped to res-
cue from mental and spiritual anesthesia, to our dismay we found
few who whole-heartedly accepted our ambassadors to this dark-
ened planet . Ensuing events are more or less familiar to you .
My present object in addressing you is to stress the extreme
importance of LIGHT as it pertains to the present and the future
destiny of you individually and of the entire planet. In this ma-
terialistic, earthly phase so many are fixing their attention almost
exclusively on MORE possessions, MORE technical skill, MORE
speed, MORE scientific knowledge, MORE probing of the Unkn own
Universe ... and all too little on the development of those spiritual
aptitudes without which one cannot hope to reach the higher levels
of existence in what you term "Outer Space." We do not by any
means condemn these material achievements but hold them in the
highest esteem when used for constructive purposes in accord with
Has it occurred to you that in descriptions of life on advanced
planets no mention is made of lamps and other artificial lighting
devices? And in your Holy Writ you read they have no need of the
sun by day etc. When your Heavenly !Father sent Jesus Christ to
earth to give Light to those who dwelt in Darkness, it was not to
teach them the mysteries of electricity, important as that know-
ledge is. His mission was to teach men the secret of lighting the
whole world with a glowing indestructible, spiritual illumination
which would dispel the awful pall of Darkness surrounding the
globe
Beginning with the simplest rudiments of God-like living, He
sought to lead them step by step into an understanding of those
laws governing the manipulation of the highest forces in the Uni-
verse, all operating under the greatest law of all . . . the LAW OF
LOVE! DIVINE LOVE! What was the first lesson He taught? To
the will of God.
100
iove our Great Creator with a heart single to His Honour and
Glory! This was the nucleus of the reign of Light and Ll.fe He came
to inaugurate . Was this glorious Gift of Light accepted by the
world? It was not!
He opened the portals of Heaven to wondering mortals through
His tragic death and showed them a Pathway of Light leading to
an Eternal Lifetime of Light, Love and Joy! This Pathway of Light
may begin on the earth plane with the faintest flicker of a sincere
desire to help someone in distress, to share a crust of bread, to of-
fer shelter to a homeless one, comfort to someone grief -stricken .
When fanned into a flame by some such deed of loving kindness,
this light becomes merged in the Pathway of Light. For this Royal
H;ighway of Light leading to Life Immortal is paved, not with the
coarse materials of which visible roads are constructed, but with
the precious gems of Love, Compassion, Kindness, Service, Courage
and Faith!
It is now common knowledge that far distant, glittering orbs
of Light may be (conceivably) peopled by God-created entities pos-
sessing intelligence, although possibly housed in bodies differing
from those you now occupy. These could, by a stretch of man's
imagination, be entirely invisible to mortal eyes. It is at this point
of speculative logic we would remind you that for untold centuries
millions of earth people have believed (upon evidence to them con-
vincing) that upon leaving their physical bodies they would be clad
in etheric bodies, similar in appearance but divested of the annoy-
ing afflictions and limitations of the bodies just vacated.
An important fact connected with this transformation merits
your attention! Mortals discern objects beyond their touch through
eyesight . When this is destroyed they live in a world of physical
darkness, UNTIL .. . and this is the amazing fact which so thrills
all refugees from the prison -house of flesh ... until that enchanted
moment when their spirit eyes first behold the wonders of these
higher realms where loved ones meet and greet them with wel-
coming smiles! This gives us great joy save for one tragic fact!
Those who have destroyed their spirit eyesight by ignoring God's
creative laws arrive in these higher vibratory octaves in a sad state
of "blindness" which is almost hopeless when they refuse all offers
of assistance by the teachers sent to enlighten them.
I have not touched upon the scientific implications involved,
having purposely restricted my remarks to the obvious advantages
of cultivating a sensitivity to the finer soul attributes which ensure
your ever-expanding ability to participate in the life of joyous ad-
venture awaiting you when you join your "Space Friends" in a
Wor ld of LIGHT, LOVE and indescribable BEAUTY!
(Channel: Mrs . E. P . Hill of U.S.A.) ASH TAR
101
The Philosopher, Plato, Speaks of the Perfect
Republic About to Be Established
(20/6/59)
Good evening , my beloved children . This is a difficult task
which I am attempting tonight - to come to thee from far off
reaches of space. It is a duty which has not been assigned to me
but which I have volunteered to take upon my shoulders for the
deliverance and the help of the people upon your Earth SHAN .
I am PLATO and I have come to the Seventh Orbit of your Solar
System from the Seventh Plane of the Nirvanian Fields of Light in
order that I may assist you. I have come with a company of whic h
you cannot conceive to assist you in the establishment of the New
Age, the establishment of the PERFECT REPUBLIC. I tried in
times gone by, some twenty-one centuries, to impress my col-
leagues and my people of Greece to establish upon the IDarth a
perfect government of the people , by the people, and for the people.
But I was repressed, I was rejected and my philosophy came to
naught because I was many centuries ahead of my time. Now I
am privileged to come again to this planet, not in close proximity
but to observe and to help thee in the establishment of a perfect
government which shall come to your planet in a very short time.
I have at my disposal an ARAVAGNA some thirty miles in
length, some twenty miles in width. And I have with me a host of
the Angels of Light who have volunteered to come for this impor-
tant mission. We have just arrived in your Solar System. In time
very short you will have upon the pages of your newspapers and
your radio the observation of a strange object in your Solar System
which cannot be defined. We will be there waiting and watching
for the developments which are being now enhanced and govern ed
by those from OTHER Solar Systems and from your own gala xy
who are tryin g to impress little groups like this one of the nece s-
sity for action and not words.
You must act and you must act quickly. Your planet could go
into dissolution , but we know that this will not take place for it has
been proclaimed in the Nirvanian Field s and the Et heric S,paces
tha t this shall not be. Thy planet has a future. It ha s a place in the
galax ies of this Universal Cosmos. It shall be a beau tiful pla ce up on
which to live in the fu ture. It will take time ; it will tak e trav ail; it
will take many things which ye know not of.
Toni ght we would beam this messa ge to you of faith and
cheer. For we are here; we are ready to help you . Not in the sen se
that your OTHER GUESTS have been and your OTHER SPACE
FRIENDS but we will watch very carefully the developments whi ch
are coming to your planet so that at the proper time we may be
able to put into operation the ideals which we projected centuries
102
ago upon this planet. We hoped then that it would not be necessary
for you to go through the travail, the agony of spirit, and the agony
of life which has come about through the errors not only of ma-
terialistic things, but the errors of spiritual and mental thinking as
well.
We would give you a little idea of the importance of your
operation and the importance of what has been attempted upon
your planet. The call has gone out into ALL the Universal Cosmos.
We are not the only ones who have heard it for it has been echoed
BACK AND FORTH through the caverns of space.
On our eventful voyage in our Etherian space craft as we came
into your orbit we came in contact with others who know of your
condition. It would be interesting if we could tell you a little about
our trip from the outer space where we are engaged in the edifica-
tion and enlightenment of other spheres and realms. Know ye that
ye are not the only planet and only galaxy which is going through
travail; for there are many more. We have passed close to three of
them. We were told about them by those who welcomed us from
their ARAVANZAS and ARAVAGNAS which came in great glory to
greet us and to help us to understand more about what is going on
upon the planet SHJAN.
So you know that the word has gone out into the outer space
what you are passing through - the great travail. Your time is
not long for this travail. Take heart and take courage. Be ye faith-
ful unto all those who have spoken to you this night and all of those
who will speak to you in times to come of the things that ye must
do in order to bring about this transformation from a lower to a
higher realm. Know ye that ye are only one of many MANY select-
ed ones who shall help in this great deliverance which is coming
to your planet.
We would enlighten you this night upon why we are here.
We are not here to deliver you; we are not here to interfere in your
affairs. We are not here to give you messages of spiritual nature
perhaps; but we are here to help you to ESTABLISH YOUR GOV-
ERNMENT WHICH WILL BE A WORLD GOVERNMEJNT BASED
upon spiritual values - upon justice, love and wisdom. Spiritual
power is coming to your universal minds; you are receiving it. The
Universal Mind is the ONLY MIND that will establish this govern-
ment, the only MIND that can find the answers to your problems.
These problems will be solved. All problems in the universe are sol-
vable if you will only look to that CREATOR who has created
you and those who have spoken to you - especially the great Mas-
ters and the GREAT MASTER who has spoken to you often in your
little group.
Incidentally, we might tell you that on your trip into your
galaxy we came very dose to the plateau upon which your beloved
ES.U is now preparing for the deliverance of your planet. He came
103
in a space ship within ten thousand miles of ours to greet us and
bid us Godspeed upon our mission. He told us that He would see
us again soon for He is coming in His GLORY AND MIGHT! In all
His messages that Re has given He said He would come; but not
as you have thought. In Spirit FIRST, THEN in the power and the
glory that is manifest in the firmaments of your heavens He will
come. You will see that God reigns supreme and man is only the
instrument through which this supremacy may be realized .
Be not discouraged about the government of your planet for it
has many errors at the present time which will be corrected and
which you will correct as you go along. It will be corrected in a man-
ner which shall be pleasing to ALL who are within the galaxies that
are watching your planet and are endeavoring to help you in any
way they may find advantageous to your knowledge and under-
standing.
Now we would bless you. My associates in centuries gone
by - ARISTOTLE and SOCRATES - also come again to thee to
bless thee and to give thee assurance that you will not go astray.
Hundreds and thousands of groups of this type throughout
this planet shall come in unison and become in rapport with one
another in order that we may be able to establish you in a great
spiritual government. I have written and have tried to impr ess
the people of Earth many centuries ago that this shall be a perfect
Republic in which justice shall rule and the spirit of truth shall be
manifest in all dealings with men among men and with men among
spirits and with men and their CREATOR and with those in outer
space. There shall be a JUBILEE, there shall be a gathering in.
There shall not be wailing and gnashing of teeth; but there shall
be rejoicing in the heavens although you may have some wailing
upon your planet BEFORE this purge can be brought about, BE-
FORE this deliverance can be gotten into its higher phases.
Watch your INFORMATION SERVICES to know that they
are very much confused as to what is taking place in the firmament
of the heavens . Your telescopes of power will be able to detect
us as we are PARKED, so to speak, in your atmosphere. We will
STAY here until this "Operation Deliverance" is accomplished. We
will be ready and willing to inspire the leaders who shall be brought
forth. There will be many of them and they will be a surprise to
you for you know not now who they are. You think you know
some of them but there will be leaders of whom you have never
heard. They will lead your nation and your world into a world of
love, a world of wisdom, a world of knowledge that shall be a glory
in the Universal Cosmos. We shall rejoice because we have been
able to accomplish this; because we have been able to help in the
thing which we failed to do many centuries ago. So we are rejoic-
ing this night with our company here that we can come to you to
give you these messages .
104
There shall be many catastrophes and many things coming
to you which you shall wonder about and which you shall say
should not come to any people; but they must needs come for this
is a purging operation; they will be necessary in order to establish
the government which you shall come into as time and space go on.
We have come from timeless space and spaceless time. It is
very hard for us to be used to a time element. We will not delay you
longer; but at a later time we may have a message which will be of
encouragement - more of a scientific and governmental nature.
For you have received and you are receiving the spirit of truth.
You are receiving all of those things which are necessary unto your
spiritual advancement and development. Heed all of these mes-
sage s which come to you. Live by them, work by them, think by
them and do by them as you would as a commander in an army.
For ye are truly an ARMY OF LIGHT. Ye are par t of th at army of
Light which shall be the Light of the World and who shall bring
into this world light, peace, love and joy in the Great Cosmos in
which your planet is revolving. The New Age is just around the
corner and you are to be congratulated because you have know-
ledge of this.
There are many who are going blindly about their duties , going
blindly about their degredation - knowing not that they even
live - thinking they are just a machine. They are here to be some-
thing to be looked at or to be kicked about or something to kick
others about. We thank you folks that you are not of this nature,
that you are of a higher self and that your vibrations can be raised
unto the cosmic heavens so that you shall receive light, wisdom,
love, knowledge and power from the Eternal Creator who has given
you Light that He might manifest through you. For He cannot
manifest through a rock or a blade of grass or a tree . He must
manifest through a human soul. Ye are part of that manifestation
of the great cosmos, the Great Spirit and the Great God and His
Son who came to you to teach you how to make this manifestation.
Throu gh error and gross neglect of your duties you came to a point
where you could not manifest the Spirit of the living God; but you
mani fested everything else that came about in a manner which was
not commensu rate with the things you were told to do by the great
te ach ers and the MASTER of the past.
Now I will recede and tell you again that this is PLATO . I have
come from a long distance to speak to you tonight. I hope you
will give your attention to all things that come to you for atten-
tion is now what you need. You need not words , you need not mes-
sages; you need attention to duty - that duty which calls you to
the Etheric Counterpart of your planet which is in a higher sphere
than you have ever encountered before.
We would bid you all good night and we leave our love and
blessing that will remain with you as long as ye shall be faithful
unto the Light that has been given to you.
105
I am now in the Seventh Orbit of your galaxy vibrating to and
fro with the revolutions of your planet observing and intercom-
municating with all of your space craft and your guests who are
helping yoti in every way. Good night and God bless you from the
Grecian philosopher who in times past tried to impress the world
but was not heeded .May the blessings of your Master ESU and all
of those who have come along the pathway to greet us rest and
abide with you now and always unto the great COSMIC DAY
when you shall reap the harvest which you are sowing here in this
little group tonight. May the God who has created you be with you
to help you to see and KNOW the Light of His Wisdom, his love
and His power. Good night.
Channel:
Zelrun Karsleigh.
Mary The Mother of Je1
sus Speaks To The
Mothers of the WorId
(8.3.60)
Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of Heaven.
O ye who have worshipped at the footstool of my Son, I have
come to speak to thee for I know that thou art thirsting for the
words that come from the heavens. Not before have I come to thee,
but constantly I watch and I pour my love over all the world as the
Lord does also for thee.
0 ye mothers of the world listen to me for I also have suffered
as thou hast, I whose heart was torn and whose sorrow was so
great. I have known deep sorrow; I have known adversity; I have
known the loss of a son so that with thee I can sympathise as thou
knowest. With thee I will ever be.
O ye mothers of this world, this world that was called the world
of sin, I gave my Son so that He might be a Light unto thee, so
that thou might find Him at last and live in the Eternal Light.
0 ye mothers of the world, know that I am as thee and that
although I now dwell in the Celestial Light I am still with thee an d
in thine hearts I ever dwell. Dear children, thou who art come up
through sorrow, know that ever thou wilt live in the eternal world
with me.
Question: How may we help the children of the world?
Send forth your thoughts of kindness and love to them even
as My Son and I, His mother. are continually doing. Forever we
give of ourselves to the little ones.
Note: Before Mary spoke she was seen by two seers of the gro up.
At first she appeared in the distance as a form of light and then
she approached closer as a being enveloped in light and colour.
From the point of the crown which rested on her head, and
from the lower part of her apparel, there shone forth rays of
light which resembled bright jewels of various colours. As the
figure drew nearer still, the face could be seen appearing and
then disappearing in the bright light.
106
BONAPARTE'S MESSAGE
From "The Psychic Observer", November 25, 1950
I have been permitted to use this power to convey a few
thoughts to you and the world in which you dwell. I have been in-
formed that your mission is that of carrying to the blighted hearts
of your brothers the joyous message of man's immortality or vic-
tory over death, and at this time, I wish to offer my congratulations
and to thank you for this earnest desire for truth which has en-
abled the spirit world to break through the dark wall of ignorance
that has been thrown over the minds of mortals so long .
"But sir, we, in the spirit life, rejoice that not far in the dis-
tance a bright light will dawn upon your world and shed its ef-
fulgent rays of truth over the dark and benighted minds of God's
children who are clothed in a mantle of darkness which the dic-
tators have woven from threads of sin and crime .
"We thank God that angel hands are about to strip off this
robe of darkness and clothe humanity in the bright garment of di-
vine truth.
"Oh, my mortal friend, how my soul rejoices that I am permit-
ted to return to earth and find an organization through which I can
convey my blessing to a world in which my blind ambition had sown
seeds of discord and strife, that grew up in my poor, unhappy land,
a bitter curse to La Belle France, which today lies broken and bleed-
ing in the dust, crushed beneath the iron heel of ambitious men.
"Had I, in my time, made a wise use of talents God had en-
riched me, to benefit humanity instead of for self aggrandisement,
for world fame, I should not now have been a wanderer through
the dark spheres of earth to find work I ought to have done before
I left there; but I clothed my mind in darkness; I covered myself
with fame and renown; I was the hero of the age, and the world
bowed in homage to my will.
"I never thought that a controlling power was above this wor 1d
or that I was simply an instrument in unseen hands.
"Had I been governed by wisdom and worked for the best in-
terests of humanity, instead of usurping all power, I should not
have to return to earth in humble supplicance and acknowledge
my faults to the world. But my Master left on record His truth for
He said, 'Except ye become as little children, ye cannot enter the
kingdom of heaven' and I now willingly humble myself in the dust
to become like a child, to atone for the wrongs of my past.
"I am willing to work among the poor and lowly ones of earth
to alleviate the ignorant and down-trodden. to become their teach-
er and companion,where I once ruled and made them my slaves
to do my bidding. Thus, are the mighty ones of earth brought low
in this world of spirit where justice is king, where we meet re -
wa rd for the deeds in the body.
107
"Oh, my mortal friend, could you be made to realize the laws
which govern and control spirits in the celestial world, you would
then understand the divine right of kings to rule over God's chil-
dren. The angel world has one acknowledged king and that is the
Christ principle. He declared His kingdom was not of earth, for
this earth was not prepared for it, but He taught His disciples to
pray, 'Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven,' for He knew the time would come when His teachings
would be recognized on earth.
"Gloriously is she advancing step by step, opening the eyes of
the blind to new beauties to a love of truth, rousing up the minds
of the people all over the world, preparing them for the second
coming of the Christ principle (not Christ Himse 1f) that must and
will rule our world after cessation of the bloody holocaust .now up-
on us.
"Then will the world become regenerated; then men and
women will learn to obey these teachings for IDs answer contains
all truth which He made to the Pharisees, when He said, 'Do unto
others as ye would be done by.' On these hang all the law.
Now, when your rulers will make laws to benefit the whole
human family instead of benefiting the few on earth and for self-
aggrandizement, then will people learn to really live.
"He never asked man to obey creeds and dogmas of man's in-
ventions. His were simple and plain rules, but there are those who
have made strange inventions of His -teachings - they have hewn
out broken cisterns that can hold no water. They hold the world
in darkness and in crime; they are responsible for the crimes of
earth and the many wrongs done to humanity. For these crimes,
they have to suffer, for as you measure to your fellowman, so God
will deal with you.
"This is justice which all must bend to, in spirit life, rich or
poor, for all are held alike, since God is no respector of persons.
When the Christ principles are once thoroughly understood and
the banner of truth permitted to wave from the watch tower, with-
out being pulled down by ungodly hands sustained by ruling per -
sons, then will people live up to the teachings, for He said to His
followers: 'A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one
another.'
"When will that time come? When people will love as Christ
loved his fellow men and brethern. He was willing to sacrifice for
the principles He taught and give His life for truth's sake, to sat-
isfy priests and rulers who believed not IDs teachings. This day
would they destroy their fellow men who dare to differ with His
principles which are fil1ing the world with power today.
"Thus has He prepared the way of truth to manifest to this
generation and opened the portals of the spirit world, two thous-
and years ago. He told them that He would return to earth in spirit
and in power for the Christ spirit must manifest in the heart of
humanity.
108
"Let men beware how he treats the spirit which is knocking at
the door on man's inner temple, and shutting out the power of spirit
communication, for only by opening wide the door between the
two p1anes and welcoming back your loving friends, can we im-
part to humanity the joys of heaven and the pangs of hell.
"Not the orthodox hell of fire, but a hell such as men feel for
wrongs done on earth life, a remorse of soul that bows it in the
dust of humility and makes them plead like the rich man to be
sent back to earth to warn his brethern which he left behind. This
is the great power and truth which is to rule the world and dethrone
the dictators as it did me.
"For this do we come back to plead with humanity, to receive
us as you would your loving friends who had gone before. For
every spirit is now trying to come back and prepare the minds of
mortals for post-war conditions. Startling events are fast crowd-
ing themselves upon the heels of time.
"Kingdoms and empires nqw fallen will rise no more. All
crowned heads will be uncrowned, thrones that are propped by the
bayonet will sink forever in the dark waters of oblivion. Republics
which are rising in the future will in fact become governments of
the people. Then will the wor 1d on earth become a theocratic gov-
ernment, then will Christ's kingdom come on earth as it is in heav-
en.
"This my friend, is the future and that future not far in the
distance. This is the great millenium which is to crown the world
in glory. This is what spirits and mortals who are controlled by wise
and good angels are trying to accomplish and will succeed with the
help of mortals like yourself by the end of the great struggle on the
battlefield of Asia.
"This much of the future I am permitted to unfold to your
mind, hoping you will treasure them in your heart as words of
wisdom spoken through one of God's chosen oracles, as one who
has been granted power to convey to earth's children messages
from the immortal spheres.
"I now thank those who have granted me this privilege. Trust-
ing that you will receive this from a wanderer in spirit spheres, one
who seeks the light.
Fondly, gratefully,
Napoleon Bonaparte
109
Love and Understanding, the Key to All Doors
Universarium Foundation, August 15, 1960, Portland , Oregon
Good evening my dear ones:
This is ESU, the one whom thou hast called Jesus the Christ.
I have come in many ways and under many names. I come to thee,
to this group, as ES.U because this is the spiritual name which I
have chosen to give unto you. I will not take the time to enlarge
upon the reasons why I have chosen this name, for this particular
group. I have come to two other groups in the same manner and
using the same name.
The only thing that I want to give you tonight is a key . If you
will hold out your hands upturned I will place in each of your right
hands a key. In your left hand you have a lock. Now place your
hands together and I will unlock for you a door that will lead you
into the portals of light, into the portals of the future, into the por-
tals of eternal happiness, and into the portals wherein you shall
be able to ascertain the things that you have been striving for .
This will not come easy, for YOU must unlock the lock on this
door . And you must open this d0or. Beyond it lie many hidden
things which are now ready to be revealed unto thee by thy teach-
ers and those Great Ones who have come to you along with those
who will come to you yet . There will be some new teachers added
to your group .
In this great moment I would admonish thee to listen care -
fully to the teacher who has been chosen as the sponsor now of
your group, the Great RAMA. In his humbleness and submission to
cosmic truth he makes the affirmation that he is not a great teach -
er. He is a Great One; and we have given him the assignment to
come to you on regular occasions to give you cosmic truth, the
truth that shall set you free.
I will be with him and he will be with me . So if I come not un-
to thee each time you will know that I am overshadowing him .
Many of the great masters who have come to thee in times past,
and who will come in times to com€ are overshadowing this teacher
who has come to you. He will give thee great instruction of the
things which you shall do and of those things which shall come to
pass.
Be not hasty in thy judgments, be not hasty in thy mur mur-
ings for greater knowledge; for knowledge comes in the proper
time and at the proper place. Knowledge will come to thee as a
great light that shall shine from the heavens above and that shall
come as the Cosmic Light that shall shed its effulgence into not
only this group but to all in this area who shall come into your
midst.
Draw them in unto you like a magnet. Give them love and
give them understanding. Give them not criticism as you have been
doing tonight; although it has been somewhat constructive . Yet
110
CRITICIZE NO ONE FOR THEY ARE HUMAN. They are upon
your planet for a specific work and they have been instructed to
do that work.
My beloved ones, we have not been able to choose those who
have been able to do the highest for the cosmic advancement for
thy planet SHAN. We have to take and use those who are best fit-
ted with a certain talent and with a certain kind of vortex which
can be revolved about an axis that will emanate light of a certain
frequency. You here in this little group are emanating a very high
frequency that shall soon be felt over all the planet. As we
have told you many times, it shall grow in strength and intensity
for it shall go unto all the Earth, not only in this community and
area; but it shall be given to ALL who are willing and ready to re-
ceive it.
Do not force those who are not ready to receive. When you do
you are wasting your energies. Rather place your energies as you
have placed them this night, to those who need the healing power
of the physical and the healing power of the spiritual. In that way
you will be able to help them. Ye shall do this in the future in great
emulation, greater harmony and greater power than you have done
in the past.
Again I would give you this key. You shall hold it tightly. Hold
it as thou wouldst hold a golden nugget; for it is the key that will
unlock the door . What is this key? You have been told about it
so MANY times. Shall I repeat it again? That key is LOVE, AND
UNDERSTANDING ... love for your fellow creatures, love for all
of the creations of the great JEFEOVA who has created all things
in the universe. He has given you light, He has given you life, He
has given you sustenance and power.
Go to thy places and use this key to unlock all doors of efful -
gence , all doors of abundance. You have been concerned about the
abundance of material things . This key will unlock abundance if
you will use it properly . We will give you instructions as time goes
by that you may be able to use this key in unlocking not only the
spiritual but the material substance which you will need.
As I stand upon the Mount of Transfiguration I will bless thee
again and you will feel My presence with you. I hold my hand alter-
nately upon each and every one of you in this group and bless you
most abundantly for ye are doing the work that has been assigned
to you . You shall not falter nor fall by the wayside although the way
seems dark and the darkness sometimes engulfs.
You should affirm that you ARE light, the Christ light , and
that it shall shine from you. Surround thyself with a tube of light
and it shall penetrate thy very being and all shall be well with thee.
All shall be well with all who come in contact with thee. You will
be a power and a good to all who shall shake your hand or look
into your eyes or find your vibration in their presence.
Now I must leave thee for there are others who would come.
If there is within thee that earnest desire to seek after truth and
111
light thou shalt be enlightened all along the way. Bless thee again .
I give thee My peace, I give thee My light, I give th·ee My love and
understanding. I am ESU whom thou hast called the Christ. Th0u
hast been told what the Christ is, for thou are the Christ as much as
I. We are all one; I am only thy Elder Brother . We are all brethern
together upon thy planet and the great galaxies of the universal
supply house of the Father's Kingdom.
Now I go again to leave thee in peace for thou and thou alone
art the emanators of earthly light. (By this He did not mean only
this group but ALL Earth's peoples. We cannot emanate earthly
light; all we can do is to emanate Christ light) . You shall reflect
this as it shall be given thee in greater glory and power as you go
forth to the mission which we have given to thee. I bless thee again,
0 Children of SHAN, for thou art children . Yet thou are the sons
and daughters of the Most High. Thou art brothers and sisters to
me ... the everlasting Christ light.
Amen, amen, and amen . So be it unto thee.
Channel:
Zelrum Karsleigh
A Warning Message
Just as there will be great tidal waves - "the sea and the
waves roaring," and great winds, and great earthquakes in the
earth's physical realm, just so will there be great winds of the Ho 1y
Spirit with great waves of His Power, and great shakings in the
Spiritual Realm; for everything that can be shaken, shall be shak-
en, that those things which cannot be shaken will remain!
Truly, truly , I will overturn, and overturn, and overturn, and
will uncover , and uncover, and uncover all the backsliden , hyp-
ocritical, adulturous Preachers, who try to make the warnings of
My Prophets of none effect to their people; and will destroy their
works until they will have to cry out for mercy in real acc eptance,
or they will lose their souls! For the bed is shorter than a man can
stretch himself on it , and the covering narrower than he can wrap
himself in it!
For He that planted the ear, shall He not hear the lies and false
slanders against my true servants? And He that formed the eye,
shall He not see their evil works , and how they are swift to run to
do evil, and slow to do doog? Know ye that I will surely visit for
these things and my wrath will come upon all, who claim to be the
Ministers of Righteousness, and hold the truth in unrighteousness;
whose end shall be according to their works!
112
THE SILENCE
From "MESSAGES OF LIGHT, Given in His Name"
It is well to sit quietly and penetrate the Stillness within one's
self and listen for the Voice of God and for His Spiritual teachers.
If mankind as a whole had not drawn away from His inner Silence,
he would not have drawn away from God as he has done.
The priests in the Temples in older days kept this contact for
a time and taught the people the Will of God. But even these,
through greed and selfish desire, lost this ability but c,ontinued to
make their followers believe they still had it, even down to modern
times.
The priests were in a measure responsible for the loss of the
consciousness of the Silence within each one in that they trained
the people to look to them rather than getting Wisdom first-hand
from the Father.
Man has already •
begun the slow, weary path back to the Fath-
er. Some there are who hav ,e learned to listen for the Will of God to
sound forth within their own Silence, but these are few.
All who are on the Lord's Path must learn this and practice
it daily and become more and more proficient. The day is long
passed when one can gain salvation by depending on a fellow man.
Each must work out his own salvation now, and to do this he must
find the Stillness within himself, wlhere he can go to meet His
Maker and Creator, the Lord of All and to learn His Will.
I, Phyris, hath instructed thee this day in His Name. Amen.
113
CONCLUSION
We have published a monthly magazine for more than 30
years. My first message was in 1926 and in 1930 it came out in
magazine form. We suggest that you keep in touch with our activi-
ties because each month we give vital information pertaining to the
physical facts that are happening in our every-day life as well as
inspirational messages from the Higher Planes.
Materialism or a social Gospel is being preached in our
churches today, but that is not the message our Master came to
proclaim. His message was of the coming Kingdom, which is going
to be established on the physical plane in the comparatively near
future, and it is important that you and I cooperate with His ef-
forts. In the near future our churches of all denominations are go-
ing to be confounded and condemned because most of the present
day churches are political in nature. They are teaching a social
Gospel that is foreign to our Beloved Leader. Today more than ever
He is saying: "Come out from among them and be ye separate."
They are the "tares" that are going to be burned up and the
false leaders with them. We are told to "withdraw until the indigna-
tion be passed." The burning up of the "tares" will make huge
bondfires, and those bondfires will largely be in the backward races
such as Africa, which is now in flames, and China, India and Rus-
sia. Regardless of man's opinions and activities, the Kingdom of
God is going to be set up on this earth, but all the evil doers will
first be destroyed.
Can you not see the body blows being administered to "The
Great Harlot"? Roman Catholic countries are falling into the net
of Communism because the Church is not a spiritual organization ,
rather it is striving for temporal power. Its objectives and plans are
similar to that of the Communists, and "when you see these things"
that are now prevailing "rejoice for your redemption draweth nigh."
If you are spiritually attuned , you will be lead out of the firing line
into a pla:ce of safety, and you will ally yourselves with people whose
motto is "All for one and one for all."
Follow your inner guidance; keep in touch with our activities
through our magazine, the BEACON LIGHT HERALD , which will
help you strengthen your faith in God and our Beloved Leader , the
Man of Galilee. Many churches are teaching that Christ is God. Not
so! As the Scriptures say: "He is the Son of God" but He is the
Father's Representative of this solar system. The day is not far
distant when every eye will behold Him in the sky, but I believe that
day is much closer than many of our religious leaders are teachin g.
In the 21st Chapter of Luke it tells: "That the sun, moon and stars"
will proclaim this message-that is astrology. Astrology and the
Great Pyramid are the two witnesses to your Bible. Again I say :
"When you see these things, rejoice for your redemption draweth
nigh."
We also carry a large stock of books in harmony with this mes-
sage. We will gladly send you a sample copy of the magazine.
Address: William Kullgren, Box 756, Atascadero, California.
115
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Fore ward - Our Goal -----
-----
-----
--------
---------------------------------------------
-----4
Introduction -----------
------
----
----
----
-----
--
------------
---------
---------------
------
-----
--
--
--
-----6
Signs In The Skies - Explanations and Forecasts Given
by Ashtar of Venus _
___
______________________
_
____
___
__
10
Reasons For Phenomena of August 1959 __
_
____________
_
___
_____________
10
Another Sun Will Enter Your Solar System ___
_
____________________
_
___
10
A Face Will Appear In The Sky ---
-------
---
------------
-----
-------------
-------11
Lights In The Sky Over London __
_
______
_
________
_
______________
_
_________
_
___
_
12
Ho w The Foolishne ss of Man Is, Even Now, Affecting
The Physical Body _____
_
__
___
_
____
_
_________________________________
_
____
_
13
A Form er Inhabitant Of Luc ifer Speaks To Earth __
_
_______
_
_____
15
Ash tar Speaks Of The Light Of The S.pirit ____
_
___
___
_
_
___
_
________
__
____
_
17
Ashtarbeulah Ans wers Questions ____________________
__
_
_
__
_
_
__
_____
___
___
_____
20
"In My Father's House Are Many Mansions "-Aminabad _
_____
21
Acquisit ion Of Kno wledge During The Sleep State ________
_
____
_
__
23
A Being From A Satellite Of Alderbaran Speaks _____
___
__
__
________
23
The Lord Of The Flame Speaks ___________________________________
_
________
26
Being True - Messages Of Light _
_______________
______
_
__
_____
_
__
___
__
_
___
_
____
_
____
_
__
_
27
"Lighted Landing Fields" or "Landing Points" ___
_
__
_
___
__
___
__
_______
28
A Conversation With Nada The Doorkeeper ___________
__
_
__
__
_
___
__
__
_
_
28
Peace - Messages of Light ____
___
_
_
_
__
_
_
__
____
_
____
__
________
_
_
_
_
__
_
_
_
_
_
________
_
_________
30
A Tibetan Lama Speaks On The Human Aura-Rinsha w __
__
_
_
31
The Power Within Man - Ashtar ________
_
__
_
_______________
___
____
__
_
_
______
_
___
32
When The Call Comes--Ashtar __
______
_
____
__
___
__
_
__
__
_____
_
_______
_
__
_
__
____
_
_
33
A Message Of Comfort From The Angel Azrael ____
_
______
_
_
_
__
__
______
34
A Comment On Azrael By Mary, The Door keeper ____
_
_
_
__
_
___
__
___
34
Contributi ons From Other Groups-Lo ve-Hum an
and Divine _______
____
___
_
____
_
__
___
__
_
_________
_
____
___
_
_
_______
__
__
__
____
_
_
__
_
_
_
__
_____
_
35
Grac e - Hawkes Bay Circle _
_
________
_
_
_
_
___
_
_
_
_
_
_____
_
___
_
_
__
______
_
___
___
_
_______
38
Fu rt her Te achin gs By Sol-Astar _
_
____
_
_
_
___________
_
__
_
__
___
______
__
_____
_
__
.40
Comment By Zosma Of Antares ______
_
____
_
______
_
_______________
_
_
_
_______
_
_
_
.49
Anchor Points --------
-------------
----------
----------
----
----
-------
----------
-------
-------46
Are You Ready? - Messages of Light ___________________
_
___
__
__
____
__
____
_
_
_
___
_
__
50
Guardians Of The Planet - Beings From Outer Space
Ash tar Discusses The Development Of The Soul _
_
__
____
_
_
_______
_
__
51
Life On A Planet Called "Binka" ___
_
_
_
__
___
_
___
_
____
__
____
_
__
_
__
_
_____
_
____
___
__
53
Since Man Walked With God In The Garden Of Ede n-
A Talk By Adam -------··
··--------------------
----------
----------
----------
-------55
116
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A Priest Of Ancient Babylon Speaks On The Evolution
of Man ...................................................................................... 57
A Philosophy And Love Will Bring Great Joy To
The World ···············-·····························"'·······························59
Let All Creatures Praise The Lord For He Is Good ................ 60
A Conversation Between Worlds 246 Light Years Apart ........61
On The Origin And Development Of Races ................................63
A Further Explanation By Ashtar: ...- ....................................... 64
The Lord's Will - Messages of Light ................................................ 64
Sons of God - An Explanation By Nethopopla of Venus ......65
A Closing Prayer By Elfreda The Healing Angel ....................67
Praise and Gratitude - Messages of Light ............................ ...........67
Plutana of Venus Speaks Of The Coming Golden Age-
Universairun Foundation of Portland ................................68
Greetings From Nepto Of Neptune - Le Roy Roberts ..........69
An Evening's Session With Ashtar, Esu and Leto -
Le Roy Roberts ···············-··········································· ··········70
Mon-Ka of Mars Discusses Earth's Rocket Programme .........
75
Mon-Ka of Mars Gives A Further Discourse Of Inter-
planetary Communication - Dick Miller ..........................77
On Interplanetary Communication-An Explanation by
Kebo-Sha of Saturn - Zelrum Karsleigh ........................ 79
The Master Answers Questions ·······-··-···································· ·83
Contributions From Various Other Sources
The Keys Of The Kingdom - Hawkes Bay ........................90
The Philosophy Of Love - Hawkes Bay ............................ 93
Faith - Through M. L. C........................ - ................................... 96
As Brea ks The Light Of A New Day - E. P. H..................... ....97
Magnetic Light - E. F................. ......................................... .......99
Ashtar Stresses The Importance Of Light - E. P. H ........... ..99
Republic About To Be Es tablished-
The Philosopher Plato Speaks Of The Perfect ................102
Mary The Mother Of Jesus Speaks To The Mothers
Of The World ......................... ...............,
.............................. 106
Bonaparte 's Message - Psychic Observer ............................ 107
Love And Understanding, The Key To All Doors-
Zelrum Karsleigh ..................... ............................................. 110
A Warning Message ........................,............................................ 112
The Silence - Messages Of Light .................................................... 113
Conclusion .............. a••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 115
117
-
