{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1960__goldston___looking_into_the_future.pdf","mytitle":"Looking Into The Future","mylang":"de"}
The Book of the Year. Price 4/6 net
The “ MAGICIAN” Edited by WILL GOLOSTON.
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO MAGIC, HYPNOTISM, &c.
Gives correct explanation of Practical Illusions, Sleight-of-baad and many interesting article*.
Published roth each month.
4 Id. per Copy, Post Free. Annual Subscription 4s. 6d. Post Free.
Vols L, III., IV. and V. handsomely bound in Cloth, 5/0 each Vo!, Post Free.
THE
SECRETS OF MAKING IP.
By
J. A tn slcy Brough.
Till'. MOST USEFUL BOOK ON
THK SUBJECT PUBLISHED.
Profusely Illustrated.
h ig h l y r e c o m m e n d e d BY THE PROFESSION.
PRICE 1 - POST FREE.
A. W.Gamage, Ld., Holborn, London, E.C.
N O W
R EA D Y
Compiled and Edited
B y WILL GOLDSTOV.
A book you cannot afford to be without, not n dull
moment in it from cover to cover. Fasclnatingstorie*
and personal sketches of men whoscnnroesaresyriony-
rnous with all that Is wonderful In magic and’enter­
tainment. Many and varied arc the articles explain
iiig-w ith wraith of detail never before attempted-
tlic workings of the most famous tricks and illusions
ever presented. This feature alone iB worth a small
fortune to any conjurer. Breery, powerful fiction by
llenry' Byntt. that clever writer on stage life which
will at once grip the attention of anyone connected
with Magicl.ma. Order early to avoid disappoint-
meat, as there is bound to lie a rush lor this record
breaking annual. He first in the field and team all
that is newest and best in the magic world.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS:
Apparatus lor Amateurs.
A Chat on Magic.
My Notebook.
Dressing Tricks.
Magic Colt.
Patter and Gsgs.
Odd Notes,
Tricks and Improvements.
The Lelta “ Chink" Pas*.
A Mystifying Card Trick.
Laughable ST
Method of
Borrowing n lint.
An Original Barrel Hscajie.
An addition to the Dice Box.
Ingenious Coin Wands.
Ring, Airing and Wand.
Clairvoyant Card and
Wand Trick.
Harry lloudini- by Himself.
Thought Reading.
Gold Fish.
Flying Glasses of Stout.
The Imprisoned Hand.
The Bee Hive Illusion.
The Vanishing Moth.
The Flying Lady.
The Hull of i,ooo Pillars.
Will Collision's Frame,
lie KoltnV Aecrets.
And numerous others.
THE MAGICIAN ANNUAL.
CRYSTAL
GAZING.
Astrology,
Pcilmlstru, Planchette, and Spiritualism.
Complied Py
WILL GOLD5TON.
(Entered at Stationer’s Hall).
Price 6d.
LONDON:
A. W. Gamage, Ltd., Holborn, E.C.
PREFACE.
The Compiler has pleasure in presenting this
booklet to readers interested in spiritualism
and the Occult Science. As a Professional
Conjuror for 15 years, he is in a position to
judge if spiritualism is genuine or fraud. After
many sittings with Mediums the Compiler
positively declares that conjurors cannot
duplicate the phenomena as witnessed by
him under similar conditions.
Readers who have sittings with professional
mediums are warned against “ Dark Seances,"
your own circle at home should be sufficient to
give you proof of “ Spirit Return."
September, 1905.
CRYSTAL GAZING.
There have been, many times, articles written and lectures, etc., given in disproof
of the many branches of occult science, of which " Crystal Gazing " is one.
It has always seemed to me unfair, and inconsistent as well, to condemn a thing
which one has not exploited one’s self, simply from hearsay or upon the strength of
generalities which could not be applied to anything of a physical character, as a matter
of course.
That which is occult or physical, i.t., belonging to the mind or inner conscious­
ness, cannot be dogmatised upon at all; for it is evident that that which is unknown
cannot be governed or contradicted by known laws.
Now-a-days it would heap ridicule upon the unfortunate head of anyone who
suggested, or tried to prove, that the world we live in was anything but round, yet once
on a time the theories which would now make us a laughing stock were the theories
which soonest obtained credence!
*
’Those who laugh last laugh longest ” and so it is with all things ; it remains to
be proved whether those who at present dogmatise as ridiculous and fanciful, the
the theories of ttte psychist—of which crystal gazing is one—will not in the end have to
acknowledge their philosophy, after all, contained but few things and some of those
incorrect at th a t!
It is the purpose of the present article, however, not so much to read a lecture upon
the theories of crystal gazing, etc,, or to argue for or against it, as to give in a concise
form those instructions which will enable the experimenter and student to decide for
themselves whether or no. the " crystal Mis, or is not, what is claimed by those who
have used it and who believe in it.
Belief! Therein a nutshell lies half the point at issue. To use the crystal one
must possess two things. Faith, and the Crystal ! Now firstly, what is the Crystal ?
Well, it consists of a sphere, or ball, of crystal without flaw or blemish. I say a
. sphere or ball, I should have said a solid sphere or ball, for I find that some dealers
supply a " Crystal ” in the form of a hollow globe, and this is not only uselessbut actually
harmful into the bargain.
Having obtained your crystal which should be simply a globe of crystal, without
stand or foot of any kind, it is necessary to arrange, as far as possible, that it shall
occupy an isolated position, away from other things which shall distract the attention—
for concentration is needed before all else—to secure this nothing is better than to use
a bed of velvet either of a deep purple or black, and the finer the quality the better.
If possible all ornaments, etc , should be removed from the room, and the room
itself, if possible, should have self-coloured walls, or at any rate a paper of the plainest
possible pattern, as if at all glaring or large the wall paper will distract the attention
and destroy that concentration which is an absolute necessity to the effectual use of
the crystal.
The light employed varies with the character and temperament of the student.
A person of strong emotions and of neurotic temperament will often succeed better
in weak or even moonlight; whereas those of calm dispassionate natures frequently find
daylight about sunset, to be the best.
Others again, seem to visualize more freely in an artificial light. It can only be
decided by actual experiment in each individual case. In any event, the light
employed should not be too strong. It should come direct upon the crystal and from
one direction only. All cross lightings should be carefully excluded, and the student
must sit with the light coming from over his shoulder full upon the crystal.
3
Should artificial light be employed, candles are best and should be stationed a little
in advance, or preferably behind tne crystal, one on cither side, so as to form a triangle,
of which the globes is the apex.
The velvet cloth should cover as large an area as possible, and the globe and
candles should occupy a central position. Avoid candlesticks of gaudy or brilliant
appearance.
Now. seated as above, in front of the " crystal,” allow the gaze to become con­
centrated upon the globe, which may either be held in the hand or, and this is
undoubtedly the best, placed upon the velvet itself.
* Gaze into not at the " crystal." and should any reflections of external objects
obstruct the view, do not allow them to influence you at a ll: look calmly through them
and you will find that gradually they wilt seem to melt away. Do not force yourself
by any effort of the will to keep your eyes fixed upon the globe, allow them to rest
passively upon it, and think ! Try to imagine some scene which is past; picture it in
. your mind ; do not try to see it in the crystal, and if nothing comes to you of its own
accord put it away and try again after t2—24 hours.
Do not at any time force yourself to concentrate the attention, or to see anything in
the crystal by force of will power.
Simply keep gazing into the centre of the globe until reflections pass and melt
away and there comes the feeling of illimitable space around you, a sense of looking
into it great void. Gradually, as the crystal exerts its influence you sink into a state
which is on the borderland of unconsciousness, neither awake nor asleep. It is in this
dreamy condition that you are able to picture to yourself, in your mind, scenes long
forgotten: faces long lost sight o f; and places which were familiar to you in the long
ago! Soon,—though not at the first or second trial perhaps, you will begin to actually
ice in the crystal, or rather in the void which the crystal becomes to the practised
crystal gazer—for the gazer loses sight of the the glass globe, almost as soon as he (or
she) gains the power of actually seeing visions or Visualizing " by its aid.
With use, the pictures should become stronger and more brilliant, and long
practice should make results more certain and their production easier.
From the stage of Visualizing recent or past occurrences, you should strive to
visualize that which is not known or only in part known, such as the dwelling and
surroundings of an acquaintance whose home, etc., arc not known, or very little known
to you. In time, it is said that one even acquires a seemingly miraculous power of
observing happenings at a great distance, and forecasting events, or reading past
unknown occurrences. To those already clairvoyant it is possible to achieve astounding
results, and only an intelligent exploitation of the "crystal " and its powers can teach
its real value and power.
The scientific reason for such power and influence as seems to reside in this curious
globe cannot be gone into here; but the money invested in one of the "crystals” is
repaid, again and again, if only by the curious and marvellous manner in which
it rests the body and, undoubtedly, strengthens the mind and memory. And although
it is not claimed for it that it will influence any and every body, it is an undoubted fact,
that nine people out of ten possess a clairvoyant power, in greater or less degree, which
only needs the agency of such a concentrating influence as the ” crystal" to blossom
out and become perfected in them !
Finally, to keep the " crystal ” in good condition it should not be allowed to
become tarnished in the least.' Before use it should be warmed and wiped over with
a velvet cloth. It should not be touched more than is absolutely necessary, by the bare
hands at any time!
A note of warning, in conclusion. Faith is absolutely necessary to success;
without belief no results can be expected. But Faith, Passtveness, and regular and
continued study should repay the crystal gazers just in proportion to the latent power
within them.
4
By R a lp h D a rio s.
Of all the sciences that are being investigated at the present time, there is none
more ancient than Astrology. Far back into the dim vistas of the past can we trace its
history in Chaldea, where the worship and study of the planetary angels formed the
religion and the priests dedicated from birth to the service of their own particular ray
or star, invoked the blessings of these higher influences, but only at the appropriate
times, when these wise men of the East bad calculated the influences to be working
harmoniously so that the most beautiful vibrations must have been experienced by the
assembled multitudes. Thei* we can look at the wonderful state of civilization existing
when the Egyptian dynasties were in the full height of their power, and find innumer­
able correspondencies in the monuments and other remains, of the connection with
stellar phenomena, as in the pyramids we find these remarkable secret chambers and
passages built at angles calculated with mathematical precision to admit the rays of
certain stars at the exact time of great festivals; but we must leave these fascinating
times and come down to the present when, sad to relate, astrology does not seem to be
in such favour with the powers that be, and much of the knowledge, nearly lost during
the dark middle ages, is slowly being re-discovered ; but even now the study of this
science may be most beneficial, not only to all mankind, but to every individual, the
stars ruling everything terrestrial, from the movements of insects and earthquakes, to
the destinies of beggars and kings.
In the fallowing pages the science of astrology will be explained in a concise but
necessarily brief manner, and for the benefit of those readers who may be attracted to
this subject, the symbols and explanations are here appended :—
Tmt Sicks op the
Zodiac.
T Arles * Libra
a Taurus III Scorpio
H Gemini / Sagittarius
«BCancer >
3Capricorn
A Leo = Aquarius
nj Virgo X Pisces
T u t Plahets.
? Suu 2/ Jupiter
Moon I; Saturn
tf Mercury Hi Uranus
9 Venus tp Neptune
! 4 Mars
Aspects. Dist’nce. Natcar.
<
S Conjunction
Semi Senile
A Semi-square
# Seattle
O Square
A Trine
0 Scsqulquadrtto
g Opposition
P Parallel
Together
30" apart
45*
6o» „
SP* ..
Same dis­
tance fr'm
Equator
Variable
Keeblyjjood
Good
Very bad
Very good
Bad
Very bad
Variable
Abbreviations and explanations of terms :—
HOUSES.—The twelve divisions into which the circle ol the Heavens is divided.
CUSP.—The beginning of any house, as the ascendant is the cusp of the first
house, and the mid-heaven the cusp of the tenth.
ASPECT.—The distances apart of the Planets.
ASCENDANT.—The eastern horizon or beginning of first house, rising sign
M. C.—The mid-heaven.
AFFLICTION,—In bad aspect or position.
EXALTATION.—When a planet is dignified by being in certain signs.
5
Each sign has a lord or ruler, as 0 is the ruler of A and each planet is exalted
in certain signs, as © is exalted in T as the following table will show
Sign Ruler or Kxai.tatior
T V .-.................... ...
g
*1 ' - ................................................... O
........ '
f ............................................................... - ....................
rn. .. .......... i
/ ................................. ................................................21
■ «
>
►
»
»
«
II W
1
|||
X .............. ....................
Mature of the signs:—
ARIES. (T)—Fiery, cardinal sign, disposition warlike, pioneering, quarrelsome.
TAURUS, (# )—Earthy, fixed sign ; disposition. Lethargic, obstinate, endurance.
GEMINI, (n )—Airy, common sign ; disposition, scientific, nervous, changeable.
CANCER. (a#)—Watery, cardinal sign; disposition, timid, receptive, tenacious.
LEO. (A)—Fiery, fixed sign; disposition, bold, ambitious, benevolent.
VIRGO, (ny)—Earthy, common sign ; disposition, ingenious, critical, graceful,
LIBRA. (e»)~Airy, cardinal sign ; disposition, amorous, refined, sympathetic.
SCORPIO, (m)—Watery, fixed sign; disposition, secretive, mystical, resentful.
L A G iniA R IN O . ( / ) —Fiery, common sign; disposition, generous, fond of
outdoor exercise.
CAPRICORN, (n )—Earthly, cardinal sign ; disposition, crafty, persevering,
melancholic.
AQUARIUS, (c )—Airy', fixed sign ; disposition, kind hearted, thoughtful, con­
templative.
PISCES, (x)—Watery, common sign ; disposition, mediumistic, lazy, romantic.
THE HOUSES;—
The First House governs the form of the body, character and health.
The Second House: Money, property, liberty.
The Third House : Brothers and sisters, short journeys, letters and writings
The Fourth House; Father, residence, close of life,
The Fifth House: Pleasure, children and speculation.
The Sixth House : Sickness, servants, psychic.
The Seventh House; Marriage, partnerships, lawsuits.
The Eighth House: Death, legacies, mysticism.
The Ninth House : Long journeys, religion.
The Tenth House : Mother, profession, honour.
The Eleventh House: Friends, hopes and wishes.
The Twelfth House; Secret enemies, self undoing, magnetic qualities.
HOW TO CAST A HOROSCOPE.
Procure an Ephemeris for the year of birth, and look in the column headed
" Sidereal time " for that day. This is the Astronomical time at noon, and if the birth
occurred before noon, deduct from the sidereal time the difference, but if the birth
occurred after noon, then add the difference. If the sidereal time be small, and you
cannot deduct from it add 24 hours to the sidereal time, and then deduct. If when
adding to the sidereal time the amount exceeds 24 hours then take that amount of time
away and work with the difference. For instance, say the time required is 2 a m., on
August igth, 1906, the sidereal time at noon on that day is 9jhr». 47mm. As the time
6
to be subtracted is ro hours, then add 24 hours to ghrs. 47mm., then subtract lohrs,
and we have 23hrs. 47mm. When the correct time has been found, turn to the
" Tables of Houses’*at the end of the Ephemeris, and look down the column headed
sidereal time, till the same time is found, or the nearest equivalent which in this case
is 33hrs. 430110., and in the parallel line to the right will be found the signs and
degrees for the cusps of houses from the tenth house or mid-heaven to the third house.
When these have been put into the map fill in the six opposite houses with the
opposite signs, and the same number of degrees. In this case tne ascendant or 1st house
is m 23hrs. 53mm., as this is the fourth sign counting in the proper order from
T to K we place in the opposite house, i.e., the seventh, the opposite sign of the
zodiac wbicn is V
) the tenth sign thus vj 23.53. is on the cusp of the seventh
house. When this has been done it will be found that four of the signs have been
repeated on the following houses, and that four signs are missing. These have been
what is called " intercepted ” or between two signs and not on the cusp of any house.
Fill in these signs in the proper order between the signs, and we have the following map:—
Nothing now remains but to place the planets in the
figure, and as the positions of these are given for every
day at noon, to find their places at any hour is only a
matter of simple proportion, with the exception of the
moon, and as her movements are comparatively swift they
have to be worked out by the proportional logarithm table
at the end of the Ephemeris, tne method of doing which is
carefully explained there, and is very easy.
Having now explained this difficult part of our subject
in a manner which we hope will be clear to our readers,
we may proceed to
J udge the H oroscope,
and to do this we have to consider the aspects, and the signs and houses in which the
planets are placed. This is the most difficult part of this fascinating study, and to be
able to jud^e a map at all well, a born astrologer is required, and by that is meant a
person having $ in good aspect to S in their nativity, but any person who feels
at ail interested in the stany influences will derive much pleasure and profit from
following this study, which, although it has not such a laige body of followers as some
of the occult movements of the present day, yet has in its wonderful symbology a
philosophy so noble nnd a meaning so deep that it covers every problem that is
troubling the minds of men, and explains all the happenings past and to come of man,
of nations and of the universe; but to return to the point at issue, in judging a horo­
scope, we must consider ail the influences and blend them into a whole, so that we may
get at the true meaning of perhaps several conflicting and apparently contradictory
aspects, which if considered separately would not perhaps give a true and satisfactory
rendering of a person's character and destiny; take the 0 the most important planet
in the horoscope; it governs the highest spiritual part of every person, their vitality,
their honour and profession, and we nave to consider first of all what house, what sign,
and what part of the heavens is occupied by that luminary. It may be that it is in the
sign £» which is called in its fall, being opposite to the sign T where the Q exalted;
again certain houses are rather weakening to the Q such as the 8th and the 12th, and
if under the earth or badly ospected by tne other planets the good fortune and welfare
generally of the person with these positions is greatly retarded.
Then there is the 5 which governs the emotions and the personality, and is a
very important part of the nativity. If the 5 is in her fall in the sign rn. and also in
bad aspect with it makes the person very irritable and quarrelsome. Then the
planet ? which is connected with love aflairs generally, and if found in a good sign or
exalted will make the person generally liked and shed around them a loving fortunate
influence. All these things have to be weighed in the balance, and all the other planets
and the ascendant and mid-heaven have their part in helping the student of these
mysterious workings of Nature to give advice ana to help mankind by his labours.
Before this article is concluded a few of the benefic aspects and positions will be
explained, and when these are strong in the figure of any person they will outweigh
much of the unfortunate part of the horoscope, and be very marked in their effect.
The O in the tenth house shows great honour and success and will give
the person a good home life and a splendid mother.
7
The © jn the ascendant is very powerful, and gives the person great
vitality ; they are very proud and magnanimous, and usually meet
•with great success in life.
0 in good aspect with 2/ shows great fame, the acquaintance of
powerful persons, and gives a liking for religious and philosophical
things.
2/ in the seventh house shows a happy marriage, and certain
success in any legal matters.
,, U in the fifth house, children that arc a blessing and comfort to the
native, and much gain from speculation.
„ V
- in the eighth house, money by marriage and legacies.
,, y in the ascendant makes a person just, honest, philanthropic and fond
of sports and exercise. /
„ ? in the seventh house, an early marriage, domestic felicity, and it also
shows that the native gains by his adversaries.
„ ? in the tenth house, great popularity, and the native usually marry
above their position, and is much respected.
,, 4 in good aspect with the ©, the person is generous, free, and of great
bodily strength, good constitution, and has a long life.
,, 5 in the tenth house, success in life and popularity, great favours from
powerful people, very successful in dealing with public commodities.
,, iji in good aspect with © favours and unexpected patronage from
powerful persons, good for Government employment.
If any reader has any of these positions in their horoscope they may indeed con­
sider themselves fortunate, and they may safely rely on the stars being friendly towards
them. It may be as well to point out here that the © in aspect to good aspect or
otherwise is not fortunate for females.
As astrology is evidently coming into great favour just now it will be found that
any person taking up this science will be in great request among their friends to eluci­
date the mysteries of their horoscopes and the future.
THE HOROSCOPE OF WILL GOLDSTON.
As a sequel to the foregoing article on astrology, the horoscope of the compiler of
this book, Mr. Will Goidston, is here given, and it may be seen in this delineation bow
to read a nativity and form a judgment therefrom. These remaiks must be somewhat
curtailed owing to space.
.The Constitution and General H ealth.
The most important part of this map will be noticed at the first glance, that potent
and mystic planet Uranus rising in Leo, and this must have given a very delicate child­
hood. and difficulty to rear; but the great vital force
shown by the map generally and the good aspect of Jupiter
and the Moon to Uranus and the ascendant greatly be­
friended the native. A tendency to an affection of the
heart is shown, and great care must be taken of the
lungs. The nervous system is very sensitive, but the
great strength given bv the royal sign of Leo rising, the
house of the sun will enable the native to triumph over
any temporary physical ills.
Finance.
The Sun in the second house at birth indicates that
his financial affairs will be usually successful, but he is rather inclined to spend
freely, and be too generous, but the more he lays out the more he will be likely to
receive again. Jupiter in the fifth house, dignified by being in its own sign, gives
great success in speculation, and in matters connected with pleasures and entertaining.
8
T he Aspects.
The most favourable influence in this map is Jupiter, the greater benefic. in good
aspect to Tlranus and the Moon. These are positions of great power, the moon
showing the pioneering, highly magnetic personality, and it may be interesting to our
spiritualistic friends to draw attention to the fact that Uranus and Jupitergoverning the
Aura as they do, give a most magnetic sphere of influence surrounding the body, and it
will be found that the Aura, given off by our subject, is strongly charged with most
magnificent deep blue colours; indeed, this is the prevailing tone, of shot blue, scintil­
lating like silk, but colours impossible to describe by comparison with any earthly
things, and it is this strong occult influence that has helped him to triumph over
obstacles, and will protect him in the future. It would bo interesting to know if any
clairvoyant has seen this peculiarity, or can sense it from the map accompanying this
article Uranus ruling the seventh house shows that he will always be master over his
open enemies and they will never be able to injure him to any extent. Mars being
parallel with Uranus, makes him very shrewd and smart in business matters, and
Jupiter gives him a tactful pleasing manner and great charm, also the ability to get on
with anybody, and to make himself at home in any company. The worst influence in
the map comes from Mars, and wo should advise him to steer clear of short fat people
of mean stature and light brown hair.
There is also an unfavourable influence coming from the planet Neptune, which
will give some trouble from secret enemies, plots, intrigues, and similar things, and
would also effect his health if he went in too much for mcdiumistic development; this
influence will especially trouble him in the autumn of the year i-jiy, but that is a long
way ahead yet.
S ummary.
Enough has been said to give an idea of the general meaning of the map. but many
interesting details cannot be gone into now. and the directions, that is the movements
of the planets in the horoscope, in much the same way as a man’s body grows and
alters, have not been touched upon, but to summarise the whole map the main tendency
seems to focus on the planet Uranus, termed the awakener. and also known as the
houseless wanderer. About this strange planet comparatively little is known, and it is
a very rare occurrence to come across a true Uranian type of person, such ns our
subject is. and he will never l>e properly understood by people coming into contact with
him. The influence of Uranus always gives an eventful life, strange happenings,
romantic adventures, sudden cr&shings and just as sudden upliftings. He will be
helped much by powerful persons, and feci the benign raj's of Jupiter sill his life.
NOTE. The compiler thanks the writer of the above article for this interesting
delineation which is in complete harmony with knowledge gained from other occult
sources. A profound judgment and deep insight into this ancient science is possessed
by Mr. Kalpli Darius, who has helped many by his readings of their horoscopes.
\Vc cordially recommend him as conscientious and capable astrologer.
9
PALMISTRY OR CHIROMANCY.
I3y E ile e n E ly c e .
Everything in nature is put there for some wise use or purpose. A nose is placed
in the centre of our physiognomy to breathe with, etc., so, the lines on our hands
depict character and destiny, though there are even to-day some folk who scoff and
scorn at the idea of palmistry being an art. Yet it is one; but alas, like most arts,
its uses have been abused.
It is truly connected with astrology. In the olden times as far back as before the
birth of Christ, “ Wise Men '* who perceived the " Star in the East " regarded it as an
omen of his coming. Now, the practical part of palmistry, which we are to deal with,
is that which gathers probable predictions from the lines, the planets, and from the
notes and characters everywhere posited and marked out in the hands and fingers.
If you look at the illustration, or at your own hand, you will find several soft
cushions of flesh which in palmistry are called Mounts. These are seven in number and
give qualities of the planets they are named after. Now, in the brief illustration the
left hand is shown, but it is certain that in one hand the lines and other signatures are
more manifest than in the other, also the hands of the sexes differ. And so the
question arises :—Which hand is to be taken >
Some teach the right hand of a gentleman and the left of a lady, but personally
I have found, in both sexes, that the hand which exhibits the lines thereof most
clearly is the one to consider. Some again declare the left hand explains the past,
the right hand foretells the future. But there is no hard and fast rule.
However, having discovered the mounts, we naturally want to know their meaning.
10
The Mount of Jupiter is found at the base of the forefinger, and, if not over large,
shows generosity, religion and a fortunate marriage. If very large and connected with
the adjoining mount it shows an overbearing disposition, proud and assertive.
TheMount of Saturn under the Middle forefinger, if moderately developed, denotes
prudence, if it is absent the person will never achieve anything of importance. Still,
if it is very large it indicates misfortune.
The Mount of Sun at the bottom of third finger, if well developed, shows a taste for
music, poetry and painting. When over large shows love of show and great vanity,
but when absent shows sensuality
The Mount of Mercury at the root of the little finger, when small, denotes intelligence,
method and activity of body and mind. If absent the person is stolid and without
energy. If large, lying, swindling and falsehood are prevalent.
The Mount of Mars at the side of the hand, shows courage and firmness. If too
large denotes a tyrannical person, and if absent a coward and sneak.
The Mount of the Moon beneath the Mount of Mars, gives its owner a lively
imagination and a sentimental and thoughtful disposition. When wanting the person
will lack sentiment altogether. If too strongly marked, a morbid mind and a love of
solitude and dismal places is predicted.
The Mount oj Venus is formed by the muscle at the root of the thumb and when
moderate gives a love of the beautiful and an affectionate disposition. If absent, shows
a cold heart and an unchivalrous mind. If too large, denotes a keen love of the
pleasures of life.
Now, no two hands are alike, and of course in palmistry as in everything else, one
thing is balanced by the other; so that really to thoroughly understand it, it needs to
be studied, and studied earnestly and carefully.
The seven lines of the hand are divided into two sections:—three main and three
secondary.
The three main lines are : Line of Life, Line of Heart, Line of Head.
The Line of Life encircles the thumb, and to denote a healthy long life should be
deep, well marked and uncut by smaller lines. If it completely encircles the thumb,
the owner may most likely live to be a hundred, or even more.
If slender and crossed by many lines, it indicates sickness and a short life; and if
very wide and pale it shows bad health and melancholy disposition. Branches in the
upper portion denote riches and honour, but if they extend to the wrist they signify
poverty and deceit.
Should the line be anywhere broken, it denotes danger to life, at the period of life
where the break takes place. If line of life is broken in both hands it means death.
When the line of life unites with those of.the head and heart, there is great danger of
a violent death. Two lines running side by side indicate a long and luxurious life. If
a line crosses it in coming from the mount of venus, it means a misplaced affection.
The Line of Heart should begin at the mount of Jupiter at the base of the index
finger and run across the hand beneath the mount of Mercury. This line being
straight and well defined, denotes a healthy body; when broken, disease and shortness
of life are shown. Beginning at the back of the hand as it does sometimes, denotes
jealousy; ending over the side of the hand shows gratitude.
When it sends out a line across the mount of Venus, especially if it be of a red
colour, it warns you to beware of thieves, fraud and deceit; the life is in danger if this
line is thus broken.
This line declining downwards to the line of head, indicates evil instincts such as
avarice, duplicity and hypocrisy. Should the line be absent from the hand it signifies
a bad life and an early death.
Tht Line of Head when long and straight crossing the plain of Mars it shows a
strong will and sound judgment. Crossing the entire hand means economy almost to
miserliness. Ending on the mount of Moon shows want of thought, a spendthrift's
disposition. Terminating in the centre of the hand means weak brain power, and no
head for figures. Ending abruptly shows untruthfulness.
"When broken in two denotes a broken limb or death by violence. If this line is
ray dose to the heart line there will be palpitations, asthma and consumption, especially
if confirmed by the line of life. The line of the head frequently throws out other lines:
if they extend to the mount of Jupiter they indicate sensitiveness, if they run towards
Saturn shows a legacy in store, if towards Mercury success in business, if towards
Venus a loving disposition, and if towards the Sun riches and honour. When the line
ol head and the line of heart unite a want of self confidence is shown which must
be overcome.
If it approaches the mount of the Moon a tendency to insanity is likely. Should
this line turn to the line of heart at the end it depicts ill-luck or an early death.
Four secondary lines are: Line of Saturn, Line of the Health, Line of the Sun,
Girdle of Venus.
The Line of Saturn rises from the triple bracelet and ends at the mount of Saturn.
It is also called the Line of Fate. When this line is crossed at the beginning the person
has had an unhappy childhood. If bent midway in its course danger of imprisonment
is marked.
Should it start in the plain of Mars and not at the triple bracelet many difficulties
will have to be surmounted. This line arising from the line of life denotes a common­
place existence. Rising from the mount of the Moon shows good fortune, but
depending upon another.
Small lines cutting the line of Saturn denote small obstacles. When the small
lines are near the line but do not cut it. it shows trouble for those near and dear
to you.
When this line starts from the line of head it shows that any rise in life must
coine from the exercise of your own talents.
If the line passes through the plane of Mars (which is in the centre of the palm)
it shows you will have to fight for your own existence.
The Line of Health rises in the wrist near the line of life. When it runs straight
and clear to the little forefinger denotes good health all through life. If plainly drawn
and well coloured a contented mind is shown.
When this line is winding in its course it denotes a bad constitution, a disease from
evil living, A cross near the middle finger on this line predicts an early death.
The Line of Sun if this is formed of three equal lines it indicates fame and valuable
appointments.
Rising in the mount of the Moon or the mount of the Sun denotes success: but
rising from the line of life shows fortune not through your own efforts, but through
others such as influential friends. Lines crossing it mean obstacles in the way.
Girdle of Venus is a half circle formed by a line running at the root of the fingers,
but it is not seen in many hands. When lightly shown it indicates a loving heart
with the power of retaining love. But deeply marked shows unbridled passions and a
vicious life.
Tht Trifle Bracelet or Restricta consists of one, two or three lines across the wrist.
Each line is supposed to note thirty or more years When these lines run upwards
ambition is shown, but if on the contrary they run downwards, it shows a tendency to
degenerate. A line running from the wrist to the mount of the Moon denotes a hard
life, always working for others; if it runs through the Moon mount journeys by land
and sea are denoted.
A branch rising and ending at Saturn mount means marriage with an old person,
if one ends at the Sun, marriage with an artist or musician. A rich marriage is pre­
dicted if a branch rises to the mount of VenOs.
The fingers when long and large show a strong, reliable character, but when very
long and slender they denote the gambler. Beware of the one whose fingers turn
backwards for they are invariably unjust and deceitful. When the fingers are long
in proportion to the rest of the hand, the owner will be clever in construction
and adornment.
Persons who possess pointed finger tips usually jump at hasty conclusions and
are impulsive. They are not a good sign for they often tell of exaggeration and
untruthfulness. Sau&re finger tip belong to composers, artists and gjeat musicians.
Flat finger tips are found among tnose who have lived for generations in the country,
\
12
farm labourers and working men generally. People with fiat fingers are never idle
and are often fond of excitement.
The Forefinger Vines in the top joint signify legacies, in the second joint they show
an envious, evil mind. Lines running across the first joint indicate in a man a jovial
disposition, but in a woman unchastity.
The Second Finger, a star on any joint foretells an early death by drowning. If a
line extend from the root to the tip it implies folly almost to madness.
The Ring Finger, many lines on the first joint show enmity to those in power over
you, but if lines cross tbese they can do you no harm. If lines run across the finger as
well it denotes dishonesty and inconstancy.
The Little Finger, the lines below this finger, on the Mercury mount, denote the
number of husbands or wives. If this finger does not reach the top joint of the ring
finger an imperious disposition is shown.
The Thumb shows character in a marked manner. First joint indicates will, and
if long shows a strong will, if small a weak will, easily led by anyone. Second joint
when long implies generosity and recklessness. A long thumb shows great strength
of body and will, and a short thumb the opposite,
Many lines crossing each other everyway signify riches and honour. A line
running round the thumb shows a death by hanging. No lines on the joints shows
an idle and slothful disposition. A short thumb is often found in persons of marked
intellect, such as poets, novelists, composers and artists.
Now the Chinese not only use the lines and mounts in palmistry, but they believe
the nails and even the backs of the hands also play an important part; and in my study
of palmistry I have found the nails Jo play rather an important part.
A wide short nail shows a quarrelsome and irritable temper. When the nails are
long and break easily it is a sign of bad health. Very small round nails ore often a
sign of obstinacy. Red nails are very bad, showing a cruel nature and desperate to a
degree. When the nail on the ring finger fa inclined to grow into the flesh it fa a sign
of nerve weakness. Nails that are covered with little ridges show the person to suffer
from nervous irritation, but when only the third finger is thus marked it generally
belongs to a musician or artist, when it fa the little finger it implies eloquence, and
usually belongs to great orators. The owner of long white nails is very often cruel
and crafty.
There are seven types of hand
1. The Elementary band, usually possessed by labouring men and those who a
engaged in manual labour.
2. The Useful hand, which is of medium size, well shaped, with a hollow palm.
This is a good hand for teachers and those who have the care of the young.
3. The Spatulate hand, with widespreading fingers, denotes a practical hand.
4. The Artistic hand, which is soft, with small thumb, denoting a love of the
beautiful.
3. The Scientific hand; this is a beautiful hand, long and pointed. It indicates
a refined mind and purity of heart and life.
6. The Mixed hand, being made up of parts of all the others, shows a mixed
character, not noted for anything in particular.
7. The Philosophic hand possesses a knotty appcaran?e, and usually belongs to
a contented person.
Crosses and stars on the hand always mean something, but as they are very seldom,
if ever, placed in the same position in two hands one is unable to say what they may
signify, and then they are ruled, so to speak, by the other lines, mounts, etc., in the
hand and fingers. In considering the character from the hand, the relative value it
bears the face must always be taken in consideration.
The whole of the hand should be the same length as the face, but it is very seldom
found to be so. Now I hope readers of this three article on Palmistry will see, even
if they did not believe before, that there fa some truth in Palmistry. I myself simply
took up the study as a hobby and found it a very interesting one, and it has proved
useful; as by a glance at the hands of the people I can come in contact with, I know
who to trust and who not to. I do not blame the people who try to make a living at
foretelling the future, but palmistry does not actually do that. It really fa useful in
deciphering character, and could be used to warn people, and many evil consequences
would then be averted. But on investigation I nave found many of the so-called
palmists hnotv little 1/ anything at all of the technicalities of the art, and they earn
their livelihood not by palmistry but promising good fortune, riches, etc., to their
unsuspecting clients; m short the qualities necessary for them is to be able to lie
glibly and unblushingly.
*3
Practical Points on Palmistry,
By P rofessor R. Darius.
The practice of character-reading or divination of the past, present and future,
is not such easy work as many unacquainted with the routine would imagine: it is
astonishing how quickly the disposing of even half-a-dozen or so clients per day tells
on the brain capacity and is responsible for a great amount of mental and physical
lassitude; of course this is not so noticeable after much familiarity with the subject;
but even experienced persons will be found to suffer from overworking themselves, and
need frequent periods of entire rest.
The purpose of this article is to point out what to avoid, and to give hints on how
to manage your clients and business dealings, and it is hoped that the information will
be of practical benefit to those contemplating a start, ana perhaps to those who have
already started in the profession which requires you to be the guide, philosopher and
friend of humanity generally.
To describe tne subject as Palmistry is, according to some authorities, giving it a
bad name and one that is in some disrepute, but Lhis does not signify much, as the
subject matter is the same, by whatever name it is called. Some prefer giving it other
cognomens, such as Hand-Reading, Chiromancy, Cheirosophy and various other titles
more or less fantastic. The main objective is first to eaten your clients, and your
manner of dealing with them, when a little experience has benefitted you; will determine
the measure of your success.
Unfortunately, the police problem is an objectionable factor, but even this is not
so stringent as some have been led to believe. The usual custom is first to warn the
f>rofessor or lady Pnlmist. that their presence is not deemed advisable in that particular
ocality, and that disregarding this warning, the law will proceed to take its course.
This message is usually delivered by a burly Sergeant, nnd. as is very often the case,
a little questioning will get him to give his own opinion and advice, which most
probably is to the effect that you bad better go.
If, in spite of this information the palmist continues to carry on his or her
profession, tne authorities responsible for law and order, then perpetrate what looks
very much like an illegal act, which is to tempt you to commit a crime against the
law, thereby rendering themselves accessories before the fact. For this purpose a
policeman's wife or another woman hired for the occasion, acting as agent provocateur,
will present herself with a companion as a witness in the guise of ordinary clients and
cunning questions nnd suggestions, which they are taught parrot-like to say, are used
to trap the unfortunate victim. Very often these emissaries overdo their role, and
if the palmist suspects their purpose, and refuses to receive payment or give any
information, they are sent away disappointed to hatch other plots.
In the event of an ordinary constable in disguise walking in to have his fortune
told, it would be as well to casually notice the size of his feet, as they invariably afford
a valuable clue to his identity; however, in many cases they succeed in some way to
serve a summons, and it then rests with the personal prejudice of tfie magistrate as to
the penalty to be enforced. A first offender may be let off on promising never to offend
again, or a small fine is the result, those who come in contact with the law more than
once, must of course take the risk of a larger fine and occasionally imprisonment.
A worthy magistrate in London, who is very well liked for his charming
personality and broad views, will not grant a summons to the police in his particular
district against palmists, and it is said that like a story in the Arabian Nights, he once,
without revealing his identity, visited a person who practiced this pernicious offence
with the result that he became a valuable convert and an enthusiastic believer in the
subject, and now very often visits new practitioners.
There are many towns, especially in the Midlands and farther North where you
may re£t in peace. In Scotland, anyone may indulge in the science without let or
hindrance, but in good old England, the land of enlightenment and freedom, there is
a very ancient statute still in force, so it is said, under which rogues, vagabonds and
palmists may either be burnt at the stake or transported in irons out of the country,
and it is a well known fact that many estimable gentlemen, who have been appointed
by their fellow subjects to administer the law in an impartial and unbiassed spirit,
would not scruple to inflict the extreme penalty under this Act, but for the fear that
the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Something or the other, would
raise up its voice and howl for mercy.
While considering the precautions that can be used, so that harmony may shed
its grateful influence over our mundane aflairs, and no one will be offended, it may be
of benefit here to give a few instances of how some professional palmists arc protecting
themselves, and a few other suggestions that may possibly be tried.
A well-known palmist, who has now retired, had a curious machine invented,
which registered the vitality of any visitor, and.the clients wishing to consult him had
to go through the ordeal of having their vitality tested, for which the stipulated fee
was paid ; after which he would read their bands and give them any other information
they desired without making any charge. Somewhat the same principle is adopted in
America, where the Raines Law prevails, and in some districts the sale of drink is
absolutely forbidden. The publican then keeps a spotted dog, or a stuffed fish, for a sight
of which the customer is charged a sum sufficient to cover the price of his refreshment;
after seeing the curiosity, a drink is given the visitor by the kina-hearted proprietor.
Another device adopted, is to have printed forms for clients to sign before any
information is given. The following is a typical declaration, and it would be difficult
if not impossible for any prosecution to take place under these conditions:—
•’Madame--------does not tell the past, present or future of any clients, or give a
delineation or any other information with intent to deceive or defraud the public, or
practice anything that is not in accordance with the law of the land. Madame--------
undertakes to suggest the indications of character and general tendencies shown by the
band, to the best of her ability, according to the science which she'has studied.'*
Intending clients are requested to sign the following declaration:—
"I hereby certify that Madame--------has not in any way intended to deceive or
defraud, and that I have read and accept the conditions mentioned above.”
These particulars will give the main points to be observed by the practitioner, who
must always remember that the Alpha and Omega of the police agents is to inveigle
their victim into the admission that they can tell fortunes, or that they undertake for
money to foretell the future.
After all. and in spite of a few drawbacks, the science still has enough fascination
to attract thousands of believers, and those who don’t believe but pay their money and
are evidently satisfied if repeated visits are any criterion. The remuneration received
by many well established practitioners is very satisfactory, and occasionally runs up
into four figures per annum ; but this is the exception and not the rule, In starling in
this profession do not expect too much at first; it takes some time to work up a good
connection, and entails real bard work to keep it going. Bazaar work brings in very
good returns and does not bring you into collision with the police, but it is very tiring
work and needs a strong constitution to stand the strain of satisfying an apparently
endless stream of people in need of your services.
* A moot point with those intending to start professionally, is how to know when
they arc thoroughly qualified to undertake the plunge.. To learn from books, even
those properly selected for their correctness is hardly sufficient, there are always some
necessary wrinkles which can only be imparted by an initiate. Under these circum­
stances the best plan would be to build up the groundwork of book knowledge
thoroughly, and then get a professional, who has a good system, to take you in hand
and finish your education, so to speak; and possibly, help you to,start with a good
prospect of succeeding. This has been the method followed by many who are now
doing well, thereby showing that this plan is undoubtedly a wise' one. Another point
well worth notice is to make a good beginning, that is make a good show by starting,
if possible, in a high-class neighbourhood, and custom will come at first for curiosity,
and afterwards if your merits deserve it, a good connection may be built up, and that
is the great consideration, as is well known.
In conclusion, a few points on how to manage the clients, and to obtain the
greatest amount of effect, may be of some service.
It must be remembered that the great thing is to impress your clients favourably,
and while-not using trickery or any subterfuge, to obtain the maximum amount of effect
at the minimum expense of energy. Always place your own seat on the side of the
table nearer the window for two reasons; to get a better light and to get the more
favourable position. In always keeping your back to the light you have the advantage
of being able to study the effect of anything you may say or do by observing the play
of the features of the person opposite while they cannot study your own. It is
noticeable that many successful business men take advantage of this fact, which
is practically an acknowledgement that thought reading, even though it may be
unconsciously recognised, is an important factor in every day life. Another valuable
aid to producing an effect is to never let your eyes meet those of the other person.
When it is necessary to look them in the face, always fix your own eyes just above the
eyebrows, while they are looking straight into your eyes, but cannot read them, as the
focus is beyond their reach, and you appear to them to be looking right through them
into the great beyond.
When reading the lines, lake a firm grasp of the hands of your client, and do not
scruple to bend and work the hands about to get the best possible aspect for observing
the minute details.
15
THE PLANCHETTE.
The “ Planchette " is known as a mysterious writing machine, to persons who use
it. Many sceptics have been dumbfounded at results obtained. *'Take care of your
wife." was the message written to a gentleman who seemed amused whilst watching a
party using "Planchettc "one evening—three months later, Mr.—lost his girl wife, after
two years of happy married life. Hundreds of proofs could bogiven if space would permit.
Do not make your own Planchette, they can be obtained so cheaply from Carnages.
When communicating with spirit friends, do not be too impatient, give them a fair trial.
It is said that Handel, one of our greatest music composers, wrote the "M essiah”
through spirit assistance. The" Planchette" should be heart-shape, measuring about
7$ inches in length and 5$ inches in width from the top to about 2 inches to the point.
Illustration No. 2 explains now the fingers should be placed
on top of the board. Follow the instructions here given and
you will be delighted at the results obtained. Place the
pencil through the hole until it is the same height as the
wheels as the board should be quite level. The point of the
pencil being adjusted to touch the paper (foolscap size is
recommended), which should be placed on the bare table,
one, two, or three persons rest one or both of their hands
slightly on the Planchette, as shown on illustration No. 2.
and ask a question, wait patieotly for your answer a short
time, care being taken not to impart any motion whatever
to the instrument. It is essential, however, not to retard
the motion of the board, the hand being allowed to follow
any direction the board may make. Very soon it will be found
that by some mysterious power, which the operators arc quite
sure they do not themselves exert, the Planchette will begin to move about, up and down
the paper for some little time, and then, generally, an answer will be found written to
the question asked. The most mysterious part is. while the operators are lightly touching
the Planchette with the ends of their fingers, and are
quite unconscious of in any way influencing its move­
ment, it will move about with more or less rapidity, and
will write words and sentences with more or less
distinctness. For some, however, it will not write, and
some for whom it will not even move, but in every
company there will certainly be a proportion for whom
it will write. Whenthe Planchette issomc time before
moving, it is as well not to tire the hands, but to rest
them a short while, and try again. It is better at first to
ask simple questions that can be answered by short
words as " yes," " no," initials or numbers and
afterwards when experience is attained such questions
as require a long answer. Instead ofusing plain foolscap
paper, the Talking Hoard can be placed on the bare
table, the pencil should be inserted through the hole in
the board, with a good sharpened point. Proceed in
the same way as for writing ; ask questions, and the
division where the pencil stops is the answer.
Generally the most successful are those of a
vivacious temperament.
16
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM?
It answers the question : " If a man die, shall he live again; is it all over with
me when I have laid aside this mortal body; are those dear and loved ones who have
been severed from me by death, blotted out of existence for ever or do they live, and
love, and grow in knowledge in a better and happier clime, where I shall meet them in
a few short fleeting years ?" Most important question I While it remains unanswered,
mankind, like doomed convicts, await, in a state of preliminary trial and suffering, the
Anal operation of inevitable late. At this dark and hideous picture the human mind
naturally recoils; and if it can be shown that man is immortal—that a better life
awaits the conclusion of this one, that this earth is a preparatory school house, and
that the future is eternal progression towards more perfect and happy conditions, then
are man's aspirations met, the justice and mercy of the Creator is vindicated, and man
is put in posession of more worlds than one, and can enjoy them all in anticipation.
How does Spiritualism answer this great question, so all-important, that it has
been propounded millions of times during the last four thousand years ? The answer is
very simple, and at the same time unquestionably certain. The cravings of the human
soul are satisfied on this important maiter by placing man in direct communication
with such as have departed this life, and thus, by face to-face intercourse, as it were,
practically convincing the investigator that those who were deemed lost have only
gone before, and live to inform us of their continued existence. Those who are un-
aquainted with the subject may smile incredulously at such expectations, while the
more thoughtful will be glad to know how such a desirable consummation can be
effected. To such it may be simply stated that communion with the spirit-world is
not an impossibility, %miracle, a superstition, a trick, or a delusion; it is a natural
law of human ex stence, and has manifested itself in all ages of the world. History is
replete with records of spirit communion, most notably the Bible, and the sacred books
of all peoples. Indeed, all religions have emanated from this source. For how could
man have known anything of spiritual existence, unless those in that higher realm had
been able to communicate the fact to him ? It does not require that you should be of
any particular creed or belief in order to establish communion with the spirit-world,
which depends upon temperament, or bodily peculiarities of those who conduct the
inquiry, and not on their knowledge or theories of any kind. To ensure success, a
medium is necessary. And pray what is a medium ? the curious and interested reader
will be ready to explain. We reply; A medium is a person so constituted as to give off
from the body a fine magnetism or invisible power, similar to that peculiar to the
magnet which attracts iron. This substance, though invisible, is the connecting link
between mind and matter—the force through the agency ol which we move our
bodies and do the work of life, and in short, enables the human spirit while in the flesh
to control the physical body. The bodies of spiritual beings are supposed to be con­
stituted of a similar material to this invisible fluid, whereby spirits coming near a
medium are able to connect themselves with his magnetism, and thus exercise their
will over material objects or human beings. This process was carried on long before
modem spiritualism was known. By this means guardian angels and ministering
spirits have in all ages been enabled to npproach humanity, and impress their minds
with that which was necessary for their welfare and enlightenment. Through this
faculty inventors and men of genius have been able to give new light to the world;
and hence we see that Spiritualism, besides showing man how to communicate with
the spirit-world, is a most important element in the science of mind.
17
We can now understand how the spirit which is invisible may be able to influence
man and visible objects. The spirit circle is formed by six or eight persons sitting
round a table, and placing the palms of the hands lightly on the top of it. If a person
having the natural qualifications of a medium is present, and if the temperaments of
the other sitters are congenial the magnetic power of the whole company will gather
in a cloud over the table and the sitters, enabling the attendant spiritsto move the table
up and down, or from side to side, and even to float it in the air, while no human
band is touching it. This is almost incredible, but quite easy of explanation by the
laws of magnetism above alluded to. When tables thus move, communication can at
once be established by asking the intelligence that moves the table to make it tip a
certain number of times, or cause raps as signals in answer to questions, or to indicate
letters of the alphabet. A more direct way of communion is by writing. When
certain persons thus sit at a table they find their hands moved about by an influence
over which they have no control. This is to indicate that the spirits wish to write
through them. If such a person take a pencil in the hand thus moved, he will be
caused to write without any control or thought on his part.
In this way information has been communicated with which no person present was
acquainted, and the autographs of strangers who had died years before have been
written. Other mediums are put into a sleeping state, called tne trance, by the spirits,
just as a mesmeriser operates on his subjects, only the spirit mesmeriser is not visible.
In this state the medium is made to say anything which the spirits desire, even to
deliver lectures and sermens. Sometimes the mediums will act and personify deceased
persons, though they never saw them in life. Another phase of mediumship is
clairvoyance, bv which mediums see spirits and describe them, the same as they would
persons in the flesh. The clairvoyant sight can see the magnetic elements which are
invisible to ordinary sight, and thus is enabled to perceive spirits.
There is a medium in almost every family, and if spirit-circles were formed
generally by one family uniting with another, the whole population might be put in
communication with the spirit-world at once, and derive enlightenment and comfort
from its inhabitants, who have advanced beyond the mortal stage of shortsightedness.
Investigators, however must bear in mind that spirits are but human like themselves.
Some of them know no more than those in the flesh, and perhaps much less, because
a departed person—ignorant depraved, or criminal—has power to communicate as well
as the intelligent and exalted. The best means of getting into communion with en­
lightened and good spirits, is to have elevated and disinterested motives, seeking the
truth fur its own sake, and not for the gratification of any personal conceit or selfish
purpose. Do not be credulous and believe that you are in communion with saints,
heroes and men of genius. Demand a test of identity frtm every spirit that com­
municates, and if your motives are good and your purposes pure, you will soon be
attended by spirit-guides or co-workers in the upper world, who will protect you from
the advances of those who would harm or deceive you.
That all may have an opportunity of investigating this matter for themselves, the
following rules for the spirit circle are appended for guidance,
Rules and conditions for the Spirit-Circle.
Atmospheric Conditions.—The phenomena cannot be successfully elicited in
very warm, sultry weather, in exireme cold, when thunder and lightning and magnetic
disturbances prevail, when the atmosphere is very moist, or when there is much rain,
or storms of wind. A warm, dry atmosphere is best, as it presents the means between
all extremes, and agrees with the harmonious state of man's organism which is proper
for the manifestation of spiritual phenomena. A subdued light or darkness increases
the power and facilitates control.
Local Conditions.—The room in which a circle is held for development or
investigation should be set apart for that purpose. It should be comfortably warmed
and ventilated, but draughts or currents of air should be avoided. Those persons
composing the circle should meet in the room about an hour before the experiments
commence; the same sitters should attend each time, and occupy the some places.
This maintains the pecular magnetic conditions necessary to the prcduction of the
phenomena. A developing circle exhausts power, or uses it up.
Physiological Conditions —The phenomena are produced by a vital force
emanating from the sitters, which the spirits use as a connecting link between them­
selves and objects. Certain temperaments give off this power; others emit an opposite
iufluence. If the circle is composed of persons with suitable temperaments, manifesta-
18
HU
tions will take place readily ; if the contrary be the case, much perseverance will be
necessary to produce results. If both kinds of temperament are present, they require
to be arranged so as to produce harmony in the psychical atmosphere envolved from
them. The physical manifestations especially depend upon temperament. If a circle
does not succeed, changes should be made in the sitters till the proper conditions are
supplied.
• Mental Conditions.—All forms of mental excitement are detrimental to success.
Those with strong and opposite opinions should not sit together: opinionated, dog­
matic, and positive people are better out of the circle and the room. Parties between
whom there are 'feelings of envy, hate, contempt, or other inharmonious sentiment
should not sit at the same circle. The vicious and crude should be excluded from all
such experiments. The minds of the sitters should be in a passive rather than an
active state, possessed by the love of truth and of mankind. One harmonious and fully-
developed individual is invaluable in the formation of a circle.
The Circle should consist of from three to ten persons of both sexes, and sit
round an oval, oblong, or square table. Cane-bottomed chairs or those with wooden
seats are preferable to stuffed chairs. Mediums and sensitives should never sit on
stuffed chairs, cushions, or sofas used by other persons, as the influences which
accumulate in the cushions often effect the .mediums unpleasantly. The active and
quiet, the fair and dark, the ruddy and pale, male and female, should be seated
alternately. If there is a medium present, be or she should occupy the end of the
table with the back to the north. A mellow mediumistic person snould be placed on
each side of the medium, and those most positive should be at the opposite corners.
No person should be placed behind the medium. A circle may represent a horseshoe
magnet, with the medium placed between the poles.
Conduct at the Circle.—The sitters should place their hands on the table, and
endeavour to make each other feel easy and comfortable. Agreeable conversation,
singing, reading or invocation may be engaged in—anything that will tend to har­
monize the minds of those present, and unite them in one purpose, is in order. By
engaging in such exercises the circle may be made very profitable apart from the
manifestations. Sitters should not desire anything in particular, but unite in being
pleased to receive that which is best for all. The director of the circle should sit
opposite the medium, and put all questions to the spirit, and keep order. A recorder
should take notes of the conditions and proceedings. Manifestations may take place
in a few minutes, or the circle may sit many times before any result occurs. Under
these circumstances it is well to change the positions of the sitters, or introduce new
elements, till success is acchieved. When the table begins to tilt, or when raps occur,
do not be too impatient to get answers to questions. When the table can answer
questions by giving three tips or raps for "Yes," and one for ■•No," it may assist in
placing the sitters properly. The spirits or intelligencies which produce the phenomena
should be treated with the same courtesy and consideration as you would desire for
yourselves if you were introduced into the company of strangers for their personal
benefit. At the same time, the sitters should not on any account allow their judgment
to be warped or their good sense imposed upon by spirits, whatever their professions
may be. Keason with them kindly, firmly, and considerately.
Intercourse with Spirits is carried on bv various means. The simplest is
three tips of the table or raps for " Yes," and one for " No." By this means the spirit
can answer in the affirmative or negative. By calling over the alphabet the spirits
will rap at the proper letters to constitute a message. Sometimes the hand of a
sitter is shaken, then a pencil should be placed in the band, when the spirits may
write by it automatically. Other sitters may become entranced, and the spirits use
the vocal organs of such mediums to speak. The spirits sometimes impress mediums,
while others are clairvoyant and see the spirits, and messages from them written in
luminous letters in the atmosphere. Sometimes the table and other objects are lifted,
moved from place to place, and even through closed doors. Patiently and kindly seek
for tests of identity from loved ones in the spirit world, and exercise caution respecting
spirits who make extravagant pretensions of any kind.
19
WEIRD HAPPENING AT LAMBERHURST.
Strange unaccountable things happened a short time ago in the neighbourhood of
Lamberhurst, Kent. The villagers, who in the midst of their laughter exhibit unmis­
takable symptoms of fear, are convinced that they are sheltering one of the most
enterprising, audacious, and mysterious working " ghosts " recorded in the annals
of the unseen.
If "ghost ” it be—and the word of the persons chiefly concerned can only be
accepted on this point—the visitant has displayed the greatest discrimination in the
choice of its field of operations. Lamberhurst is an old-time cluster of cottages,
Elizabethan for the most part, lying midway between Horsmondon and Goudhurst.
Two miles further on is the Furnace Mill, owned by Mr. I. C. Hay foot, a well-to-do
farmer and hopgrower. Here the "ghost" has established its headquarters.
I'urnace Mill lies in a wooded hollow, a quarter of a mile from the main road,
It is flanked by a darksome lake, in which the tall elms that fringe it cast shadowy
reflections. The trickling of a cascade and the calls of bird to bird are the only sounds
that disturb the silence. No other dwelling is visible. Altogether an eminently-
appropriate home for a "ghost.**
LOCKS AND BOLTS OF NO AVAIL.
Mr. Playfoot, a matter-of-fact, business like man, recounted with some reluctance
his wierd experiences to a " Daily Mail" representative; " for " he said "already the
news has got abroad, and last Sunday hundreds of people from the towns and villages
for miles around invaded my place to look for the ’ghost.' Whatever the thing may
be." he went on. *
•that is playing the very mischief with my place, it operates only in
the daytime and under the very noses of myself and other members of the family who
are looking out for it.
" It is important to know that I have not discharged anyone, that this place can
only be reached by a private road, that the approach of any stranger would be disputed
by two watchdogs that would not stand on any ceremony, and that I carry in my own
pockets the keys of the mill, stables, hayrooms and other buildings.
" Despite all these precautions, locked and botted doors swing open, the horses are
changed from stable to stable, arc sometimes turned round in their stalls so that their
backs are against the mangers, and are often seen to run shivering and startled from
their stables into the road.
" Dales of hay arc cut and scattered about the hayrooms, the contents of sacks in
the drying room arc emptied and changed about, while in the tool-house, barrels of lime
weighing hundredweights are flung down a flight of stairs. These and many other
strange things happen in rooms that are locked, barred, and bolted, while people watch
and listen outside, and the keys are in my pockets. Nobody and nothing is ever seen
or heard."
Then Mr. Playfoot detailed what was perhaps the strangest " manifestation " of
all. " About noon a few days ago," he said, “ in the presence of my son I locked and
bolted every building on the premises and went into the mill-house for dinner.
Suddenly I heard a startled cry from the lad, and rushing into the yard saw the door
of the drying room, only about ten yards away, wide open. Within the room I heard
the shouts of the lad. but before I could reach him the door silently closed, I seized
20
the handle. The door was locked 1 My son was a prisoner inside. The key of the
room was in my pocket. I unlocked the door and entered the room. Nobody was
there except my son standing on the stairs frightened and pale."
Young Playfoot, a bright lad about fifteen years of age corroborated this strange
story. As soon as Thad entered the room." he added, " I saw the door closed in
some mysterious way. The latch rattles and the lock creaks, but although I stood only
a foot or two away, neither the latch nor the lock made the least sound."
" I could not have believed it if I had not been there." supplemented Mr.
Playfoot.
A strong-man feat performed by the “ghost" was the overturning of a large water-
butt—a veritable Sandow from spint-land. One morning, according to Mr. Playfoot, as
he was working near one of the stables the lock was screwed off. He substituted a
bolt. Shortly afterwards he found that the bolt had been removed and the lock neatly
restored to its place. " And yet 1saw nothing," he said, as he wearily drew his hand
across his puzzled brow.
Mr. Playfoot conducted the "Daily M ail" representative to one of the stables.
The double doors were locked and bolted, and tbe entrance was spanned by a stout
timber bar secured by a hidden fastening designed by the millowner in the hope of
circumventing the "ghost." In tbe stable was a grey mare.
SPIRITED AWAY.
" Now such strange things had happened to this horse," he said. " That one day I
decided to watch the stable closely. 1 made everything secure and put the keys in my
pockets. Presently I crossed over from where I was standing, and unlocking the
stable door looked m. The stable was empty. I found the horse in an adjoining bay-
room. which was padlocked.
" How the horse got there—how it got through a communicating door scarcely
wide enough to allow a man to pass—how it got up the steps—all these things are
beyond me. If they had been done by human agency (and I hesitate to believe in
ghosts) I must have seen or heard something, for I was only a yard or two away. In
ordinary circumstances the stamp of the horses hoofs on the wooden floor of the hay-
room would have reached me. Besides, although the doors must have been unlocked
and relockcd, I had all the keys in my pockets. It is impossible that there can be
duplicates."
The police have attempted to investigate the circumstances, but without any result.
They are as mystified as Mr. Playfoot. Meanwhile, something like alarm exists among
the scattered inhabitants of Lamoerhurst. Horsmonden, and Goudhurst. and they hope
that the " ghost," as they firmly believe it to be, will confine its operations to Furnace
Mill.
WONDERFUL PROOFS.
The daughter of one of the most prominent mediums in the country. We have
been asked to keep the writer's identity concealed, but it may be added that all the
chief text-books on spiritualism refer to her mother as an unequalled "sensitive."
It is stated that while seated at meals in full light of day, and with both her hands
visible, the heavy dining-room table would sway and rock from side to side, flinging
crockery and glass on the floor. Occasionally it would tilt right up on end, while long
raps and explosions reverberated throughout the room.
Taking meals with her in a restaurant would seem to have developed unpleasant
consequences, for it is stated that the various tables and unoccupied chairs immediately
swayed and moved towards where she was seated. Loud rappings occurred every
where, and Sir William Crookes writes in reference to these rappings and to his
experiments with this lady:—
»’ In this manner I have heard them in a living tree, on a sheet of glass, on a
stretched iron wire, on a stretched membrane, a tambourine, on the roof of a cab, and
on the floor of a theatre. Moreover, actual contact is not always necessary : I have
heard these sounds proceeding from the floor, walls, etc., when the hands and feet of
the *sensitive’ were held, when she was standing on a chair, when she was suspended
in a swing from the ceiling, when she was enclosed in a wire cage, and when she had
fallen fainting on the sofa. I have heard them on a glass harmonicon, I have felt them
on my own shoulder and under my own bands. I have beard them on a sheet of
paper, held between the fingers by a piece of thread passed through one corner. With
a full knowledge of the numerous theories which have been started . . . to explain
these sounds, I have tested them in every way that I could devise, until there has been
no escape from the conviction that they were true objective occurrences not produced
by trickery or mechanical means."
21
ROBERT HOUDIN MYSTIFIED.
I select the special evidence of the seance with Robert Houdin. because of his world­
wide fame as a prestidigitator, and also from the fact that he had challenged any
clairvoyant (and there were many in Paris at the time) to perform any feat by so-called
supernormal faculty, and he would duplicate it by sleight of band, or magic.
Houdin himself selected Alexis as the subject of his challenge, and it is supposed he
did this because Alexis' fame was more noted. Houdin at the time regarded all
clairvoyants as, more or less, successful conjurers. Alexis always exercised his clair­
voyant faculty in the hypnotic trance. He was a young man of delicate, sensitive
temperament and a natural somnambulist. In the account which follows I give only a
few of the tests imposed by Houdin.
Houdin comes before Alexis and brings new, unopened packs of cards, books and
various objects for his tests, agreeing that if the clairvoyant was successful under the
conditions he would impose he would give a certificate to that effect.
Houdin, who is an adept in such matters, asks leave to bandage Alexis' eyes
himself. He does this to his satisfaction. We omit details. Then he draws from his -
pocket two packs of cards stilljn their wrappers with the government stamp intact,
opens them, shuffles and asks Alexis to cut. He lays down five cards before Alexis, who
takes good care not to touch them, gives himself five and is just going to pick them up
when Alexis stops him with the words: "You needn't do that. I take every trick,"
and names the ten cards which are still lying on the table face downwards.
• ♦ •
“ Let us begin again,” says Houdin coldly, stunned though ho was, as if by a
heavy blow. Ten fresh cards are substituted for the first lot.
" I discard," says Houdin.
" Why do you keep these two cards, and this very weak trump, too?" says Alexis.
“ Never mind, give me three more."
" Here they are."
" What are they?" says Houdin, covering them with both hands.
" Queen of diamonds, queen of clubs, and eight of clubs,” says Alexis.
" Go on a third round." Same accuracy and infallibility.
" It is now my turn to watch," says the recorder of the seance," and what do Isce?"
R. Houdin fixes Alexis with those remarkable eyes of his; he changes his colour,
his face grows livid, and a kind of nervous quiver passes over his features, and then,
with the passionate excitement of an artist who suddenly recognises his master
cries, "W hat is this ? What is happening ? It is splendid."
• • •
Houdin then draws a book of his own from his pocket and asks Alexis to read eight
pages further on, starting from a given place. Alexis reads from the 9th page the
words: * * * " That's enough," says Houdin.
" What a marvel! Can you tell me who wrote this letter?"
Alexis feels it, puts it on top of his bead, and against his stomach, and describes
the writer fairly accurately, but makes some mistakes.
Houdin then asks where the letter comes from, and Alexis tells him, and also the
house and in what street it stands. He also tells him what the writer (a trusted friend
of Houdin) is doing at that moment, and informed him that he is betraying his confidence.
" Oh. that is an utter mistake." says Houdin, " for the writer is one of my best
and most trusted friends."
"Take care." repeats Alexis, this time in an oracular tone, " he is deceiving you
shamefully." (Houdin discovered on returning home that his friend [?J was robbing
him at the very time of the sitting of 10.000 francs.
• • •
Alexis now tells Madam Houdin, who was present, of recent death of her child
and the place and cause of the death and exact date, and also tells her that at that
moment she was still thinking of a still younger child yet to be born. Correct.
He now reads a paper folded up in Houdin's pocket book, which was a receipt
and gives the exact writing. Houdin hands Alexis a piece of hair, and he correctly tells
him that it is his son's hair and describes him and an iljness he was suffering from and
states his age. On the following day Robert Houdin gave a certificate stating :
" I cannot refrain from affirming that the incidents recorded above arc absolutely
correct, and that the more I think about them the more impossible I find it to class
them with those which form the subject of my profession and of my performance.
" ROBERT HOUDIN."
A fortnight later, after havinganotber seance with Alexis, Houdin gave a strong and
more detailed statement, concluding with these words: " I left this seance in the great­
est possible state of amazement, and convinced of the utter impossibility of chance or
conjuring having been responsible for such marvellous result."—New’ Thought.
22
REMARKABLE TEST.
Perhaps sceptics will believe the results for which Professor Alfred Russel Wallace
vouches in connection with Mr. Home, the well-known medium. If they are prepared
to believe the Bible history of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, and the fiery furnace,
they cannot doubt Professor Wallace's statements, which he gives in the following
words:—
" Mr. Home took a glowing coal from the hottest part of a bright fire, and carried
it round the room, so that everyone might see and feel that it was a real one. This is
testified to by Lord Lindsay. Lord Adare, Miss Douglas, Mr. H. D. Jencken (barrister-
at-law), Mr. S. C. Hall (barrister-at-law. and for twenty-five years editor of •The Art
Journal,’ London), and many others, But more strange still, he could detect the same
power in other persons, or convey it to them. A lump of red hot coal was once placed
on Mr. S. C. Hall's head, in the presence of Lord Lindsay, and four other persons.
Mrs. Hall in a communication to the Earl of Dunraven, says:—
" Mr. Hall was seated nearly opposite to where I sat, and I saw Mr. Home, after
standing about half a minute at the back of Mr. Hall's chair, deliberately place the
lump of coal on his bead. Some one said, ‘ is it not hot ?* Mr. Hall answered,
•Warm, but not hot.'
Mr. Home had moved away a little, but returned. . . . He smiled and seemed
quite pleased, and then proceeded to draw up Mr. Hall's white hair over the red coal.
The white hair had the appearance of silver thread over the red coal. Mr. Home drew
the hair into a sort of pyramid, the coal, still red, showing beneath the hair.
" When taken ofTthe head, without in the slightest degree injuring it or singeing
the hair, others attempted to touch the coal, and were burnt, Lord Lindsay and Miss
Douglas have also haa coals placed in their hands, and described them as feeling rather
cold than hot, though at the same time they bum anyone else, and even scorch the face
of the holder if brought too closely. The same witnesses also testify that Mr. Home
has placed red hot coals inside 'his waistcoat without scorching his clothes, and has put
his lace into the middle of the fire, his hair falling into the flames, yet not being the
least singed.'*
MAJUBA VISIONS.
Archdeacon Colley’s Weird Spiritualistic Recital.
Archdeacon Colley, rector of Stockton, Warwickshire, who has occasionally
attracted public attention to his views and statements on the subject of spiritualism.
..which he unsuccessful desired to expound before the last Church Congress, sends to
the " Daily Mail ’’ a letter on " The psvchical events that preceded, happened on, and
followed" the death of his Excellency General Sir George Colley, at Majuba, on this
date, February 27, 1881.
These circumstances, the Archdeacon writes, are of the most weird and wonder­
ful sort. At the time of the tragedy he himself was in Natal and chaplain to Sir George
Colley, who was the Governor of the Colony.
In conversation with Sir George, before he started to meet the Boer invasion, the
Archdeacon mentioned some fears he had reason to entertain for his safety. Sir George,
however, making light of the matter, playfully took up a Burmese curio—spraying
wheel—and purposely turned it the wrong way, so that in Burmese and Chinese
superstition the prayer, actuated backwards, might work a curse instead of supplicating
a blessing.
'*Early on the then fatal Sunday morning of February 27, 1881, 1, at the Deanery,
Pietermaritzburg, awoke with a feeling of something dreadful about to happen, which
feeling increased as the day wore on. to culminate in the sorrowful confirmation of my
fears later when, leaving the cathedral pulpit at the dose of evening service to dismiss
the congregation with the Benediction, a hurried message came to me from Government _
House saying Sir George Colley had that morning been killed at Majuba. . , .
*
• The youth shot the Governor of Natal from dose behind, the bullet smashing
out through the forehead, causing Sir George Colley to leap high into the air with
hands outstretched and arms uplifted, and fall the mangled corpse of what a moment
before was a courteous, brave, chivalrous gentleman, truly religious and righteous.
“ At what was probably the very moment of this dpleap and death spasm Sir George
in psychic materialised, instantaneous form, was physically, or with her Scotch gift of
*second sight,'subjectively, seen by a domestic, a native of Aberdeen, whose outcry
thrilled with dismay and fear, the household running to her help, foreboding the sad
news which the evening of that same day was brought down from the front.
23
” The testimony, however, of this Scotch woman of Aberdeen isso utterly impossible
of putting into words without explanations recondite and of Yogi-philosophic teaching,
that I must suppress it.
" But Sir George Colley’s various appearances to me, and my son. and others, are
less perplexing, as they have for the most port been on the lines of what is usual in
spiritualism relative to clairvoyance, and subjective with those who are gifted with the
' discerning of spirits' and have what the Scotch call 'second sight.'
" It is, therefore, almost always in the way of ■a military man in high command
having a hole in his forehead' that Sir George Colley comes thus to give proof of his
identity.
*
•When this was the experience of my son he did not at first know who 'the mili­
tary man with a hole in his forehead *was until I told him in detail of the far-reaching
effects physical and psychical of the circumstances that concrete to history with the
bare mention now of Majuba. He. however, now knows who it is that comes and gives
proof of his identity. Yet to others, until I say who it is that comes to them . . .S ir
George Colley (though an utter stranger to them at first) is still the military man,
evidently killed in battle—having a hole in his forehead.'
" Hence, last September, in a shop at Birmingham, into which I had casually gone
to buy something that attracted my attention in the shop window, a stranger diffidently
accosted me and whispered that there was standing with me at the counter 'a military
man having a hole in his forehead, appearing to have been killed in battle.'
” In haste to catch train to Leamington I could not then stay to question my
informant, evidently a ' seer,’ but found when next in Birmingham that he was a
working spectacle maker and a poor relation of the people of the shop.
" Moreover, only last Tuesday. February 20, while at breakfast with two friends at
Leamington—both clairvoyants and knowing nothing of what I have written—one of
them was suddenly 'controlled' by the late Governor of Natal, who sent a most impor­
tant message to my son, now quartered at Jubbulpore, the truth of which, when I have
answer from India, I may some time speak.
" But before this was given, which is more of a family nature, the sudden and un­
looked-for seizure of one of my friends was a dramatic and most thrilling, painful nnd
terribly intense setting of the events of this day's disaster at Majuba.
*’There were the arduous circumstances of the climb to the bill-top of Majuba, the
boulders to lie surmounted, the wild, desperate effort to reach the brow of the hill and
Us rugged crest, the impossibility of getting the field guns and rockets up the precipitous
steeps in time to fend off the Boer attack, the terrific energy of the few troops surrounded
by the ever growing host of the enemy, and the *Up, up. up ’ cry of the agonised leader
that came in my startled, terrible dream sixteen years ago at the Deanery. Pietermaritz­
burg, and was fteard with the tragic vision seen at Government House that fatal Sunday
morning. Then the last scene of all. with force tremendous, alarming and intense, set
forth, dramatised and described as a piece of realism incapable on the part of any other
than the controlling power, as Sir George Colley (and I pledge my soul for his identity)
with a moan, pitiful, and a dreadful cry, leaps up with a crash to fall, even as on this
day fell the corpse of the martyr of Majuba."
CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS.
About July last I attended my first seance at Mr. Husk’s house, where 1was intro­
duced by a person who knew nothing whatever about my private affairs. During the
seance I was visited by my brother and sister, the former having died in Africa some
nine years ago, I recognised him by a photograph I had. The latter died at home
about twelve years ago: I remembered her as a child, and noted a marvellous likeness
to a sister now living.
In addition to my own visitations, several other people in the circle received rela­
tions and friends long since dead, and discussed private affairs with them.
Among the notable visitations were those of Cardinal Newman and Signor Foley,
who sang his famous song, " Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.”
On another occasion some few days after I took a friend, whose name was unknown
until after our arrival. This friend, like myself, was a sceptic. He had a visitation
from a friend who died in Rio about five years ago. I myself clearly saw the visitation
glide from out the medium's body and float across the table and stop opposite my
friend, who up to this time had seen nothing in the way of a visit intended tor himself.
I immediately told him that a spirit was about to materialise before him. The reason
that I saw the spirit previous to materialisation is accounted for by the fact that I am
supposed to be slightly clairvoyant.
24
I saw the spirit materialise and reveal himself to my friend by means of the phos­
phorescent board. They conversed together for a few seconds, until the power by
means of which spirits materialise became weak, and he gradually faded away.
A few months afterwards I was discussing the matter at my friend's house, and was
asked as a test to pick out from thirty or forty’ photographs the likeness of my friend's
visitor at the seance. I had not the slightest difficulty in doing this, although I had
never seen the man in life, and never previously seen his photograph, and knew nothing
whatever about him,
Another incident that I will mention occurred as follows:—I attended another
seance unknown to my people at home; during my absence they were experimenting
with a planchette board unknown to myself. The board was under the control ol my
brother's spirit, and a few of the tests supplied were as follows:—(i) Counting the
number of cigars in a broken box. (2) Stating the longest word with the correct
number of letters on a screwed-up cutting of the " Referee." (3) Counting the number of
leaves, even to the young shoots just appearing above the mould, of a fern upon the
table. These questions, without exception, were correctly anAvered, although the
answers to the questions were not known until after the planchei board had written them
When the tests were over the board suddenly shot across the table and was left
quite uncontrolled. About this time, as near as 1 could tell by comparison afterwards,
my brother appeared to me at the seance and told me that he had just left them at
home where he had been speaking to them through the planchette board.
PROOF POSITIVE.
A spurious coin, a counterfeit banknote, a forged cheque, a fraudulent masterpiece,
or even a false prophet, in their respective spheres, denote the existence of the real, the
genuine, the true. The presence of fraud, therefore, will emphasise in no mistaken
manner that care is necessary in dealing with the subtleties of this subject.
1 must confess my own attitude, if not hostile, was distinctly critical and sceptical;
but after ten years' unremitting inquiry’ and experiment I am compelled to say "the
facts beat me."
I am a Government official with 21 years' service, and within the past month have
been the recipient of what to me was unquestionably a spirit message, in which not only
are the usual telepathic or sub-conscious theories inoperative and inapplicable, but the
practicability and usefulness of which were demonstrated within twenty-four hours of
its delivery.
I did not seek the information; it was voluntarily imparted to my wife unexpect­
edly by a non-professional psychic, and without detailing particulars 1 can assure you
that the warning enabled me to avoid what would have been a most unpleasant if not
a disastrous experience. " He shall give His angels charge concerning thee, lest at any
time thou dash thy foot against a stone," is particularly applicable here.
Purity of mint!, honesty of purpose, a desire for truth, and the exercise of common
sense are the requisites for a satisfactory solution of this question.
CAN ANIMALS SEE GHOSTS?
A parson was driving a trap along a country road, when the horse suddenly.stopped,
pricked up its ears, and looked straight ahead as if startled. At the same time the
parson saw the apparition of a man. Had the same ghostly figure been apparent to the
horse ? Later, the parson heard that other persons had seen the apparition at the same
spot, and that a man had committed suicide there.
Another story is told by a young lady, who possessed a dog of which she was very
fond, left home on a visit to friends at a distance. One day during her absence
her dog, chancing to look out of a drawing-room window, uttered a bark of joy and
rushed out upon the lawn, where it began leaping and barking on one spot, as if in
recognition of an absent friend standing there.
"Then suddenly stopping, it looked up, uttered a howl of terror, and rushed back
trembling into the house. News soon after arrived that at that very time the absent
owner of the dog had died !"
The curious experience on this question of Mr. Rider Haggard, related by himself
in a letter to the "Times," excited wide-spread interest.
While asleep, Mr. Haggard dreamed that a black retriever, the property of his
eldest daughter, was lying on its side among some brushwood beside water. The
animal in the dream was trying to speak, and failing, transmitted to the sleeping
novelist the knowledge that it was dying.
Inquiry proved that the dog had been run over by a train on the night of the
dream. The animal's body was afterwards found in the Waveney river.
25
HAUNTED MEN AND WOMEN.
The remarkable case of the haunted man of Abertridwr recalls several famous
records of the same sort that have aroused intense interest in recent times.
The peculiar fainting fits to which Craze is subject are thought by some authorities
to be merely the ordinary symptoms of the mediumistic trance: ana indeed there are
many spiritualists who envy the poor ignorant Welsh miner the rappingsthat cause him
such unbounded terror.
These similar cases are not so rare as might be imagined. Everybody knows in
fiction Dicken's story of the Haunted Man, and in real life there are variously, authen­
ticated cases of the same sort.
THE TRAVELLING GHOST.
A poor woman was living about fifty years years ago with her brother and two
sisters on the ground floor of a house in her native village of Mottlingen. They began
to hear strange noises at night, like heavy objects being rolled over or thrown about,
and she perceived figures and moving lights. Sometimes she felt her hands seized and
laid forcibly one over the other.
The noises soon increased to such an extent as to alarm the whole neighbourhood,
and the woman frequently saw the figure of another woman who had died in the village
about two years before (when the noises first began)—always with a dead child in her
arms. The figure always stood by a certain spot, and kept repeating '*Give me a paper
and 1 will not come again.”
Search was made, and various objects discovered, but the curious point of the story
is that the voices continued for some time after the woman had been persuaded to
remove to another house, and then stopped—to be heard before long in her new abode.
Later this unfortunate woman was said to have become possessed of a demon, or
rather several, which were exercised according to the ancient rite of the Catholic
Church. This case is given at full length in Mr. W. T. Stead’s Real Ghost Stories.
SEIZED BY A HAND.
There is a remarkable story from Ilfracombe published in a recent number of
" Light,” in which a woman and her little girl were the objects of spiritual attention.
One night after putting the child to bed she was suddenly startled by hearing her
screaming. She ran up at once, and found the little girl flushed and in a fever of fear.
Taking her in her arms, she tried to soothe her, but, looking intently at something
visible-to herself, the child kept crying, “ Man, man.”
Some years later, when sleeping in the same room with her child beside her, a
hand gripped her right arm in the blackness. She seized the being’s arm. It was a
skeleton. Forcing the arm backwards so as to make the thing speak with the pain, and
crying. " Speak, or I wall break your arm,” she received no answer but a muffled groan.
Then in a mysterious manner the arm was drawn away, and footsteps retreated up the
stairs with a regular and measured tread.
The door at the bottom of the stairs was bolted fast.
CROSS ON THE BED.
One of the most extraordinary and best authenticated cases of the kind relates to
the late Rev. Stainton Moses. One Sunday in 1872 he noticed remarkable manifesta­
tions of spirit torce all through the day, beginning with raps on the table at breakfast
time.
On his return from church a series of loud raps followed his steps about the room,
and he found on the bed, in the form of an imperfect cross several articles taken from
the dressing table. As he moved from chair to chair, the noises followed, and while he and a
friend were in the room another article was brought from the table and added to the
cross on the bed.
After se irehing the room and locking the door, they went away to lunch, but the
meal was interrupted by continual rappings, and when they returned they found more
articles added to the heap on the bed.
They went away again, and the rapping became so importunate that several times
the heavy dining-table with its burden of heavy dessert dishes and decanters was
shifted from its place.—From the records of the Psychical Research Society.
THE COMPILER RELATES THE FOLLOWING.
A few weeks ago. the daughter of the greatest English Comedian (who passed
away a short time ago] was sitting in her dining room with her sister-in-law, quietly
discussing the topics of the day. At that time everybody belonging to the house was
away, with the exception of the two ladies mentioned, footsteps were heard on the
stairs, when to the great astonishment of the adies, the husband of one, who had died
only a few months since, was seen standing in the doorway leading to the dining
room fully materialized. He did not speak—just stared at each for a few seconds
—then made his way downstairs.
He was immediately followed by the ladies—they were too late, he had vanished.
CROSS-EXAMINING A GHOST.
The Hydesville case in 1S48 is taken by some spiritualists to be the foundation of
the modern science of spiritualism. The disturbance began with knockings at night in
the children’s bedroom, sounding as if from the cellar below, and like shoemaker’s
hammering. The children felt something heavy like a dog lie on their feet when in bed,
and a cold hand pass over their face. The bedclothes were pulled off, chairs and
furniture were moved, and raps were heard on the doors and tables.
After about two months, the noises one night becoming incessant, the father, a Mr.
Fox, tried the sashes of the window, when the sounds were imitated. Some nights
later quite a seance was held, attended by about eighty people, and the mysterious
rappings spelt out a peculiar story. It declared that it was the spirit of a pedlar who
had been murdered some years previously and buried in the cellar. Digging under the
floor, they found, at a depth of 5ft. the remains of a human body.
A long and fierce controversy has raged over the Hydesville case, at the very crux
of spiritualism. It is said that the Fox children discovered some curious means of
snapping their joints, and took this extraordinary advantage of it. The story was
recalled by Mr. Wallace, of " Light,” who would seem to emphatically believe it.
THE HAUNTED EVANGELIST.
The Wesley case dates back to 1716. For some two months after the death of the
father, at the same hour as usual every night his step was heard on the path, and his
peculiar knock heard at the door. Also his voice was imitated singing his favourite
hymns; and most curious of all, a loud *
*Amen " was heard at the end of the family
prayers. These peculiar manifestations continued for two months, and then ceased.
MESSAGE FROM A DEAD SON.
At a meeting of the London Spiritualist Alliance a short time since, Mr. George
Spriggs related an extraordinary instance of spirit communication in Australia.
In a town on the Yarra Yarra River, Mr. Brown attended a spiritualistic seance
when his two sons and a friend had gone our yachting for a few days. During the
seance one of the sons communicated the fact that the yacht had capsized and all
aboard were drowned, describing the locality minutely. He also said that one body
had been devoured by a shark.
Search was made, and two bodies were found. Some time later, a shark was
killed near the spot, and on it being opened the waistcoat and watch of the unfortunate
man were found. The watch had stopped at nine o’clock, the time mentioned in the
son's message at the seance.
DEAD GIRL RE-VISITS HER LOVER.
The story of the return of the spirit of a dead sweetheart is told on the authority
of the Rev. A. Chambers, of Brockenhurst, Hants, in the “ Occult Review."
The vicar relates how a young man in grief at the death of his sweetheart prayed
earnestly and constantly for a sign that she lived beyond the grave. The sequel was
that while at work in his office one day he looked up and saw the dead girl on the other
side of the room. She moved a little towards him and tried to speak. When he
rushed towards her she vanished.
After this occurrence he woke one night and found the girl standing by his bedside.
Three times she lay her right hand across her mouth in a pecuilar manner. Later he
remembered that before the body of his sweetheart was put in the coffin he had tried
to kiss her, and a sister pulled his head back and laid her hand across his mouth.
27
GHOST IN A FLAT.
The story of a courageous spiritualist who became suddenly timid was related at a
meeting of the Union of London Spiritualists at South Place Institute a few weeks ago.
Mr Davis, a councillor o! Canning Town, told how, when living in a flat with his
family, he had stayed up one night determined to gel into touch with the spirit world.
With this idea he took an empty glass, ami remained gazing into its depths for some
time.
Suddenly he heard footsie]*, which seemed gradually to draw nearer to where he
was sitting. Though nervous, Mr. Davis determined to see the matter out. The foot­
steps came nearer, and at length a hand was lightly placed on his shoulder,
His courage then left him and with a shriek he fled from the room and sprang
into bed, dressed as he was. Ikw>
is and all,
DEATH FORETOLD IN A SERMON.
" 1 have in the past criticised adversely some who have said they have seen visions.
I will not do so again. 1 retract those censorious words.”
So spake the Rev. Meredith Morris from the pulpit of Garth Church, Maeateg,
South Wales. Me spoke to a crowded congregation.
" What did 1 know then he went on. " We have hail our Raster Communion
and there were absentees from it. There were some who told me they would come,
but 1 looked into their eye" ami saw that they did not mean what they said. They
did not come, and I afterwards saw some of them—seven of them—gambling under
a tree.
” Now I have a message from God, and it is to all young men, and to all others in
this church. 1 have seen in a vision seven young men, and one of these seven will Itc
called to his reckoning by bis Maker, and that very shortly.”
The preacher paused ami was convulsed with sobs. A wave of strong emotion
passed over the congregation Men and women literally gasped for breath.
It was on Sunday that the sermon was delivered Strange to say. on Monday,
afternoon one of the young men to whom the minister had referred was killed in a
colliery’.
A DOG THAT SEES GHOSTS.
A friend of mine was staying at the riverside home of a foreign gentleman living
in England. After dinner, on the first night of his arrival, he was sitting with his
host in the library, smoking comfortably before the fire, when of a sudden the great
German boar-hound lying outstretched lietween the two men on the hearth got upon
his legs with a snarl, swung off into the middle of the room, and stood there barking
furiously at nothing.
My friend looked over his shoulder, expecting to see a servant enter the room,
and then, turning to his host, he asked with a smile what it was the dog made such an
alarming fuss about. His host, who was also smiling, pitta finger to his lips, signifying
silence.
And then my friend saw what held him facinated till the scene ended. He saw a
huge dog barking at Nothing, making little furious rushes at Nothing, and. getting
angrier and angrier, driving this said Nothing nearer and nearer to the curtained
windows. The hound’s eves
Blazed with Fury,
his frothing lips disclosed teeth that dripped with the very violence of hate, and the
whole lithe body, with the mat roughened by rage, was tense with enmity. To doubt
that there was no Thing in front of him was impossible.
As soon as the hound had driven his enemy to the curtains he returned to the
hearth, laid himself down again before the fire, but this time kept his bead erect with
uneasy eyes fixed upon the curtains.
“ He does that nearly every night.” said the host of my friend.
” But what does he see ?’'
" A ghost. Well if you do not like the word, let us say an apparition. Yes, he
sees on apparition. I have tried to see it many times, but ”—shrugging his shoulders
—” 1do not fast suflkientlv. perhaps ! No: 1have never seen it."
It came out that the house had long enjoyed the reputation of being haunted.
The new owner had no belief in the legend till the hound sprang up from the hearth,
almost night after night, and always at about the same time, and went through the
extraordinary passion of anger described,—"Strand Magazine.”
28
MYSTERY OF A MEDIUM WHO MADE
TABLES FLOAT IN THE AIR.
Mr. Andrew Lang, in his own inimitable way, deals in his latest book, ” Historical
Mysteries,'* with the "Strange Case of Daniel Dunglass Home,” who, by his
marriages, " far out-went such famous charlatans as Cagliostro, Mesmer, and the
mysterious Saint Germain, the deathless. For, though the son of a Scottish mother in
the lower middle-class at highest, born at Currie, in Mid-Lothian in 1833, and educated
in a village in Connecticut, he successfully married, with the permission of the Czar,
two Russian ladies of noble birth—a feat inexplicable, says Mr. Lang, when we think
of the rules of the Continental noblesse.
He was but a mild young musical man. and the problems of how he achieved his
social successes, and how he managed to escape exposure, if be did his miracles by
conjuring, are almost equally perplexing.
At the age of seventeen Home began to hear *' loud blows on the head of my bed,
as if struck by a hammer." The Wesley family, in 17:6-17, had been quite familiar
with this phenomenon, and with other rapping*, and movements of objects untouched.
In fact, says Mr. Lang, all these things are of world wide diffusion, and I know no part
of the world, savage or civilised, where such events do not happen, according to the
evidence.
In 1850, Home was so constantly attended by noises of rappings that his aunt
threw a chair at him, summoned three preachers, an Independant, a Baptist, and a
Wesleyan, and plunged into conflict with the devil. The furniture now began to move
about untouched by man, and Home's aunt turned him out of the house. Henceforth
he was a wonder-worker.
The American poet, Bryant a Harvard professor, and others examined Home in
1832, and emphatically declared that" we know were not imposed upon or deceived."
"Spirits” spoke through the voice of the entranced Home, or rapped out messages,
usually gushing, and Home floated in the air. at the bouse of a Mr. Ward Cheney.
- *
Sir David Brewster Mystified.
In 1855 Sir David Brewster visited Home, and said that he, Lord Brougham,
Mr. Cox. and Home sat down " at a moderately sized table, the structure of which we
were invited to examine. In a short lime, the table shuddered, and a tremulous
motion ran up our arms. The table actually rWi from the ground, when no hand was
upon it. A larger table was produced, and exhibited similar movements. An ac
cordian was held in Lord Brougham's hand and gave out a single note. A small hand­
bell was then laid with its mouth onthecarpet, and after lying for some time it actually
rang, when nothing could have touched it. The bell was then placed upon the other
side, still upon the carpet, and it came over to me and placed itself in my hand. It did
the same to Lord Brougham. These were the principle experiments; we could
give no explanation of them, and could not conjecture how they could be produced by
any kind of mechanism. . . . We do not believe that it was the work of "spirits '*
Afterwards, as Mr. Lang points out. Sir David Brewster, in newspaper letters,
contradicted in certain respects what he had privately written to his family.
The next incident of note is the meeting between Home and Mr. and Mrs.
Browning at Ealing, which gave rise to what seemed a personal attack on
Home, in " Mr. Sludge, the Medium,” as a detected and confessing American imposter.
On this occasion, said Home, a wreath of clematis rose from the table and floated
towards Mrs. Browning, behind whom her husband went and stood, The wreath
settled on the lady's head, not on that of Mr. Browning, who. Home thought, was
jealous of the favour. This, says Mr. Lang, is manifestly absurd.
w Phantasm ” of a Child.
Several years ago an eminent writer published another version in a newspaper,
Mr. Browning had told him, he said, that, sitting with Home and Mrs. Browning in a
darkened room, he saw a white object rise above the table. This Home represented as
the phantasm of a child of Mr. and Mrs. Browning which died in infancy. Mr.
Browning seized the phantasm which was Home’s naked foot.
But it must be remembered, says Mr. Lang, that (1) Mr. and Mrs. Browning had
no child which died in infancy ; and (2) that Mrs. Browning's belief survived the
shock. And so we " get no forrader.”
29
The one known alleged case of detection of fraud, on Home's part, given on first
hand evidence and written only a few weeks after the events, is a record by Mr.
Merryfield of an Ealing seance in 1885, on a night by such light as exists when the moon
has set in July.
The outlines of the windows we could well see. and the form of any large object
intervening before them, though not with accuracy of outline.” Mr. Merrifield detected
" an object resembling a child's hand, with a long white sleeve attached to it," and
also attached to Home's shoulder and aim, and moving as Home moved.
There are many attested accounts of hands seen, in Home's presence, in a good
light with no attachment: and no fraud is known ever to have been detected in such
instances. The strange fact is that if we have one record of a detection of Home in a
puerile fraud in a faint light, we have none of a detection in his most notable
phenomena in a good light.
Moving Heavy Furniture.
Mr. Lang goes on to cite the following account, published in "The Nineteenth
Century” for April, 1896, by Mr. Hamilton Aide, who, prejudiced against Home, was
asked to meet M Alphonse Karr, one of the most sceptical men in France, at a seance
with Home.
The two arrived first at the villa, and were shown into a saloon, where the
furniture was very heavy, the tables " mostly of marble, and none of them had any cloths
upon them." There were about twenty candles in sconces, all lit, and a moderator
lamp in the centre of ” the ponderous round rosewood table at which we were to sit.*'
Mr. Aide examined the room carefully, and observed that wires could not possibly be
attached to the heavy furniture ranged along the walls, and on the polished floor, wires
could not escape notice. The number present was nine.
All bands were on the table, but M. Karr insisted on being allowed to break the
circle, go under the table, or make any search he pleased. "This Home made no
objection to.” "Raps went round the table, fluttering hither and thither inn way
difficult to account for by the dislocation of the medium’s toe. the common explanation."
Mr. Aide was observant enough to notice that a lady had casually dropped her
bracelet, though she vowed that it "was snatched from her by a spirit.” ” It was
certainly removed from her lap, and danced about under the table.”
Then suddenly ” a heavy arm chair, placed against the wall at the further end
of the salotte, ran violently out into the middle of the room towards us.” Other chairs
rushed about with still greater velocity."
Tables Float in the Air.
The heavy table then tilted up, and the moderator lamp, with some pencils, slid to
the lower edge of the table, but did not fall off. Mr. Aide looked under the table;
Home's legs were inactive.
Home said that he thought the table would "ascend,” and Aphonse Karr dived
under it. and walked about on all fours, examining everybody's feet—the others were
standing up.
The table rose " three or four feet," at highest, and remained in air *
*from two to
three minutes." It rose so high that “ all could see Karr, and see also that no one's
legs moved." M. Karr, says Mr. Lang, was not a little annoyed; but as ” Sandow
could not have lifted the table evenly,” even if allowed to put his hands beneath it, and
as Home at one side, had his hands above it, clearly Home did not lift it.
All beheld the phenomenon, and Mr, Aide asks, ” Was I hypnotised? " Were all
hypnotised? Certainly no form of hypnotism known to science was here concerned.
Except when Home said that he thought the table would ascend, there had been no
” verbal suggestion ;” nobody was told what to lookout for.
Mr. Aide's story is absolutely unexplained, and it is one of scores, attested in letters
to Home, from people of undoubted sense and good position.
Sir William Crookes in 1890 published full accounts of his experiments on Home
in 1871, with elaborate mechanical tests as to alteration of weights, and recorded Home's
feats in handling red-hot coals, and communicating the power of doing so to others.
Sir William discovered no flaw in the experiments, or in the reasoning based upon them.
" The table rose completely off the ground several times, whilst the gentleman present
took a candle, and, kneeling down, deliberately examined the position of Mr. Home's
knees and feet, and saw tne three feet of the table quite off the ground." Every
observer in turn satisfied himself of the facts; they could not all be hallucinated.
Having cited the facts of the case, with, of course, more detail than could be given
here, Mr. Lang saves us without giving his own definite belief, although he would seem
to show that the balance of truth inclines in favour of Home.
30
A short list of Spiritual Meeting Halls are here given. Should readers require
further information, they would greatly benefit by subscribing to *
*Light," published
at i to, St. Martin’s Lane, London, and " The Two Worlds," published at Corporation
Street, Manchester.
LONDON.
Spiritualist Alliance, Ltd,, no, St.
Martin’s Lane, W.C.
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
22, Prince's Street, Oxford Circus, W.
Henley Street, Battersea Park Road.
8, Mayall Road, Brixton.
■Surrey Masonic Hall, Camberwell New
Road.
Chepstow Hall, 139, Peckham Road, S.E.
no, High Road, Chiswick, W.
Clapham Institute, Ganden Road, S.W.
322, Huston Road, N.W.
Sigdon Road School, Dalston Lone, N.E,
Brett Road, Hackney.
Corner of 3rd Avenue, Church Road,
Manor Park, E.
73, Becklow Road. Askew Road,
Shepherd’s Bush.
193. High Road, Tottenham.
LIVERPOOL.
Daulby Hall, Daulby Street.
Phoenix Hall, Low Hill,
Farnworth Hall, Farnworth Street.
Independent Society, 128a, Mount
Pleasant.
MANCHESTER.
Central Spiritualist Association—Britten
Hall. 32, Bridge Street.
Brooks Bar, 86, Chorlton Road.
Collyhurst, Oldham Road.
Public Hall, Franklin Street.
Hyde Road, Belle View, Gorton.
Booth Street, Gorton, N.
920, Rochdale Road, Harpurhey.
Hilton Street, Higher Broughton.
Corner of junction Street, Hulme.
Chell Street, Stanley Grove, Lonrsight.
Over Co-Operative Stores. Opcnshaw.
Ellesmere Hall, Ellesmere Street, Salford
Clifton Street, South Salford.
New Shaw Road. South Salford.
27, William Street. West Gorton.
Ford Lane, Pendleton.
SHEFFIELD.
Middle Class School, Paradise Square.
Heeley Spiritual Society. Temperance
Hall—379, Bramhall Lane.
LEEDS.
Institute, Grove House Lane, Claypit
Lane.
Progressive Hall, Leah Place, Geld&rd
Road, New Wortley.
25, Adelphi Street.
YORKS.
Spiritual Evidence Society, Progressive
Hail.
Spiritual Church, St. Saviour's Gate,
Cromwell Road.
MACCLESFIELD.
Cumberland Street.
BLACKPOOL.
Spiritual Church, Albert Road
ACCRINGTON.
26, China Street.
Spiritual Church, Carter Street.
BIRMINGHAM.
Camden Street Board School.
Masonic Hall, New Street.
Spiritual Hall, Saltley.
BISHOPS AUCKLAND.
Temperance Hall, Gurney Valley.
BRADFORD.
Bowling, Harker Street.
West Bowling, Boynton Street.
West Bowling, Parkside Road.
Springfield Spiritual Rooms, Wetley
Hill, Westgate.
GLASGOW.
Scottish Mediums Union, St. George's
Cross, 251, New City Roacf.
Assembly Rooms, 136. Bath Street.
Ivy Rooms.
31
\
EDINBURGH.
5, Queen Street.
DUNDEE. N.B.
Forester's Hall. Rattray Street.
DERBY.
Spiritual Temple, 23, London Road.
United, Lecture Hall, Mechanics
Institute, Traffic Street.
GATESHEAD.
47, Kingsboro' Terrace.
Eden Progressive Society. Bcaconsfield
| ;Hall Coatsworth Road.
2, Vine Street. Askew Road West
GRIMSBY,
Central Hall, Strand Street.
New Clee, Navigation Hall, Hamilton
Street.
BAKNOLDSWICK.
Lyceum, Spiritual Hall.
BARNSLEY.
George Road.
BRISTOL.
Railway Terrace.
BARROW-IN-FURNESS.
Psychological Hall. Dalkeith Street.
Berry's Buildings. Abbey Road.
BARRY DOCK.
Alexandra Hall, Woodland Road.
BELPER.
Jubilee Hall.
BIRKENHEAD.
Britten Hall.
223. Grange Road.
BLACKBURN.
St. Peter's Street.
Northgate Spiritualistic Church.
BOLTON.
Bradford Street.
Wood Street. Bredshawgate.
BRIGHTON.
17. Compton Avenue.
BURNLEY.
Guy Street.
North Street.
Spiritual Hall, Richard Street.
Hamraerton Street.
BOURNEMOUTH.
21, Charminstcr Road.
BURY.
Spiritual Hall, off Paradise Street.
CARDIFF.
58,.Queen Street.
CHESTERFIELD.
Falcon Assembly Rooms.
COLNE.
Cloth Hall.
DARWEN.
Church Bank Street.
DONCASTER.
Alexandra Rooms, Nether Hall Street.
GREENOCK.
Association Shepherd's Hall.
HUDDERSFIELD.
Spiritualists Hall, Ramsden Street.
LANCASTER.
Athenaeum, St. Leonard’s Gale
LEICESTER.
Spiritualist Hall. Albion Street.
NELSON.
Newtown Assembly Room, Every Street.
Pendle Street.
NOTTINGHAM.
Gladstone Hall,
Progressive Spiritual Church Street.
Nicholas Church Walk.
Castlegate Hall.
PORTSMOUTH.
I-esser Victoria Hall, Southsea.
SMETHWICK.
Central Hall, Cape Hill.
SOUTHAMPTON.
Waverley Hall, St. Mary's Road.
SOUTHEND-ON-SEA.
Milton Street.
SOUTHPORT.
Queen's Hall, Nevill Street.
Hawkshead Hall,
NORTHAMPTON.
S.T.R. 84, Dunster Street.
St. Michaels Road.
STALYBRIDGE.
Forester’s Hall, Vandrey Street.
WALSALL.
Central Hall, Bradford Street.
WARRINGTON.
Spiritualist's Hall, Sankey Street.
WIGAN,
Miner's Hall.
WOLVERHAMPTON.
Midland Chambers.
CARLISLE.
16. West Walls.
EXETER.
Malborough Hall, Bull Meadow Road
32
NEWCASTLE-ON TYNE.
Heaton and Byker, Investigation Society,
Byker Bridge Road.
Spiritual Hall, i n , Elswick Road.
Northumberland Hall.
CASTLEFORD.
Britten Hall, Jessop Street.
CLECKHEATON.
Old Robin Rooms, Westgatc.
DONCASTER.
Progressive, tt, Wood Street.
HALIFAX.
St. Paul's, Alma Street.
HULL.
Spiritual Church, Lime Street.
KEIGHLEY.
Spiritual Temple, Heber Street.
MIDDLESBOROUGH.
Grange Road.
SKIPTON.
Temperance Hall.
CHESTER.
83, Brook Street.
SHIPLEY.
Market Buildings, Teal Court.
SOUTH SHIELDS.
1. Robinson Street.
77. King Street.
t6. Cambridge Street.
SCARBORO'.
Spiritual Hall Church.
LINCOLN.
Upper Room, Arcade.
GLOSSOP.
Spiritual Hall, Edward Street.
HINDLEY.
Spiritual Temple, Bridge Street.
LEAMINGTON.
Priory Terrace, near G.P.O.
NORTH SHIELDS.
80, Saville Street.
11, Albion Road.
OLDHAM.
Spiritual Church, Elliott Street.
Spiritual Temple, CoronationJSt. Mumps.
PLYMOUTH.
Oddfellow's Hall, Morley Street.
Balfour Hall.
PONTYPRIDD.
1, Crossbrook Street.
PRESTON.
Weaver’s Hall, Walker Street.
MORECAMBE.
Union, New Queen Street.
PAIGNTON.
The Kraal, St. Andrew's Road.
STOCKTON-ON-TEES.
36. Silver Street.
TODMORDEN.
Spiritual Church, Dale Street.
STOCKPORT.
Albert Hall, Wellington Street.
ROCHDALE.
Regent Hall.
Progressive. Oldham Road.
\
THE VERY LATEST
F R O M
ESTA BLISH ED 1899.
4 Duke Street, Adelphi,
LO N D O N , W .C .
The secret of success is to deal honestly with the public.
Our most telling advertisement is the recommendation of
our customers.
Our Motto:—“ Not how cheap, but how good.”
YOU KNOW WHAT YOU WANT WE KNOW WHAT WE HAVE
WHY NOT W RITE U S ? IT WILL PAY YOU TO DO SO.
Large illustrated List of Magical Novelties 4d. post free.
Supplementary Lists issued periodically free on application.
New list of Latest Books on Magic, etc., now ready.
List of “ Novel Notions," “ Surprises " etc., sent free.
M arti n k a & Co. W. D. Le Roy A. Roterbergr
(New York Agent for *
'The (Boston Agent for “ The (C h icag o Agent fo r -T h e
Magician.” Magician.”} Magician”)
M anufacturers o f Fine
L atest N ovelties In
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
M agical A pparatus.
Illusions.
all B ranches of th e Grand Professional Cata-
M agical Art-
logue, «73 pages, 355 illus­
trations, 30 cents.
New Mammoth Catalogue with
700 Engravings as cent#.
Send for Large Illustrated
Catalogue.
If interested in bargains
send stamp for Mammoth
Bargain Sheet No 39. con-
Catalogue of Parlour Tricks,
taining list of over 400
tricks at half-price.
1
1- POST FREE.
Free.
4 0 3 S ix th A v o u u o , N ow
103 C o u r t S tr e e t, 170 O n ta r io S tr e e t,
Y ork City, U.8.A. B oo to n , Mail., U.8.A. C h ic a g o , ILL.
RALPH DARIUS
Will supply horoscope and delineation of your nativity !
These are a great help and guide to those interested in
their own character, financial prospects, health, marriage,
occupation, travelling, &c.
FEES, which m utt be prepaid, as follows:— £ s. d.
H O R O SC O PE (Map of the Heavens) only .. 0 1 0
H O R O SC O PE, with full delineation. This is
especially recommended for enquirers ., .. 0 3 0
H O R O SC O PE, full delineation, with extended
remarks, and one year's directions .. .. 01
0 6
H O RO SCO PE, full delineation, with directions for
life and answers to any questions .. .. 1 1 0
HORARY Q u e s t i o n s a n s w e r e d , horoscope
not necessary,but just write asking the question.
Very useful for advice regarding illness, specula­
tions, law suits, and enquiries concerning distant
friends, & c. 0 2 6
N.B.—Birthblatt, ytar, date and tsact or martst tassiblt tint of birth must bt
givtn A photograph, uhith will bt rtSvmtd, should bt stnl if txaci tsmt is not
knoum. Pltast say nhtthtr marritd or singlt, matt orftmalt.
Address: R a lp h D a r iu s , 4, D u k e St., A d o lp h ), L o n d o n , W.C
Read the
Magician,
t h e o n ly
r e a lly
i n t e r e s t i n g
J o u r n a l
o n M a g ic .
Read the
Magician,
t h e liv e a n d
u p ~ to - d a tc
M a g ic a l
J o u r n a l .
‘THE MAGICIAN.”
Edited by WILL GOLDSTON.
A Monthly Journal devoted to M agic, S p iritu alism , &c.
Gives correct explanations of Practical Illusions, Sleight of Hand,
and many other interesting articles.
4*d. per copy, post free.
Annual Subscription, 4s. 6d. post free.
O o n t a l n s a t l e a s t 3 t i m e s t h e a m o u n t o f m a t t e r a n d
i l l u s t r a t i o n s o f a n y e x i s t i n g M a g ic a l M a g a z in e .
P u b li s h e d 2 0 th e a c h m o n t h . V o lu m e 1 h a n d s o m e l y b o u n d
in c lo th , Ss. 6d. P o s t F re e .
.<,.1..... A
> w GAMAGE, Ltd., Kolborn, London, E.C.
The Latest and Best Work on Magic published.
LATEST . CONJURING.
Contains
latest tricks with
and without
apparatus,
many published
for the first
time.
E very n o w a n d
s t a r t l i n g Illu s io n
a c c u r a t e l y
e x p l a i n e d w ith
I llu s tr a tio n * .
L a t e s t M e th o d o f
p e r f o r m l n g t h o
m y s tic K o ttlo
t h a t b o ils
o n Ice,
I n c l u d i n g th o
m o s t r o m a r h a b l o
t o h o ld liq u o r.
Tim can firvJuce
almoti am drink.
W R I T E F O R A C O P Y T O - D A Y
By Will G O LD STO N .
Correct method
to escape from
handcuffs,
leg irons,
panel boxes, etc.
In f a c t It g iv e s
t h e p ic k o f
e v e r y t h i n g u s e f u l
t o t h e u p - to - d a to
c o n j u r o r a n d
illu s io n is t.
It a l s o c o n t a i n s
m a t t e r a b o u t
h a n d s h a d o w s .
P r o f u s o ly
i l l u s t r a t e d a n d
h a n d s o m o l y
b o u n d in c lo th ,
2s. P o s t 3d.
V E R Y F E W L E F T .
4 t h EDITION O F A SU C C ESSFU L WORK,
“ SECRETS OF MAGIC.”
BY WILL OOLD3TON.
IOO P a g o s , w ith n e a r l y 100 I llu s tr a ti o n s .
A really Useful Book. Contains:—
Cartoon, Will Colston—'Tito Candle and Handker­
chief Illusion—The Devo Card Trick—The
"Mahatma" Card Divination Illusion—The Music
Cone. Crystal Box and Handkerchiefs—The
“ Mahatma" Paper and Cigar Trick—Valuable
Chemistry Secrets—The Jenkin’s Card Change—
The
Coin Itlusion—Novel Flag or Handkerchief Illusion—
The Vanishing Bird Cage —The “ Mahaima " Flag
and Candle Illusion—'The *
*I.aurie " Flying Glass ana
Fluid Illusion—
'The Mysterious Cross Illusion—New
Canary Bird Trick—
New Revolving Servanle—
Efiecuve Coin Vanish—New Sum Trtck—The Lee
Bullet Illusion—Latest Paper Tearing Illusion—Whole
page illustration. “ What a Clever Trick‘‘—Harry
Houdini's Method to open Handcuffs—
The Famous
Spirit Collar Trick (written by Houdini)—Vanishing
Lady on Horse’s Back—
The Sibyl Key Mystery—
An improved Tom Card Trick—The Changing
Billiard Ball Trick—The Four Sympathetic Lady
Friends—
The Bodiless Lady Illusion—New Card and
Cigarette Illusion—The Three Wonderiul Cards—
The New Card Trick—Best Methods of Dealing
Seconds—Indian Magic—Wine and Water Trick-
Sensational Card Trick—Mystic Celery Glass Trick—
Hardcen Fooled—Nelson Downs' New Coin Trick—
And many other New Sleights and Illusions.
N e w a n d i n t e r e s t i n g I te m s .
\ eniriloquisns—Smoke Pictures—Paper Folding—Paper Manipulating—Chapeau-
grapny—Lesson on Hypnotism—Stage Hypnotism—Hoop Rolling'-Hand Shadow s
-Elocution-An of Making Up-Interesting Items, etc.
GET A COPY NOW, H a n d s o m e l y b o u n d i n c l o t h , 2/6 n e t t .
P U B L I S H E R S B y p o s t 2/9.
A. W. Carnage, Ltd., Holborn. London, E.C.
TRICKS S ILLUSIONS, bv w
m coiduon
Author of the " Secret! of Magic" nnd “ Latest Conjuring" (both out of print).
250 p a g e s , b o a r d c o v e r, 2 6 C loth C o v er, 3/6 Posta/p 44
NEARLY 300 ILLUSTRATIONS.
A USEFUL BOOK FOR AMATEUR
AND PROFESSIONAL CONJURERS.
In thl* volume, technicml terms, whenever possible, have been avoided, and it will prove a pitta
and useful guide to those seeking information on matters magical.
In almost cverybraneh of magic the student will find that a knowledge of big and small
apparatus is essential. The hints and secrets given sway in this work cannot oe obtained
otherwise without the outlay of many pounds.
Contents.—Part I.—TRICKS.
New Card Catching on plate. The Floating Disc Mystery.
The Devo Torn Card. The Mildyard Target and Cage Illusion.
The Handkerchief and Sword. A Dancing Doll. Two Good Rini
Cages. The Dero Card Trick. The Uumt Handkerchief
Restored. The Cntidlc nnd Handkerchief Illusion. The Chnme-
leon Handkerchiefs. The Mahatma Curd Divination Illusion.
The Wedding Ring Passed through a Handkerchief. The Magic
Cone. The Pistol to Vanish Canls. The •‘Sybil" llird Cage
Illusion. The Mahatma Paper and Cigar Trick.* The Vanishing
bird Cage. Novel Mag and Candle Illusion. Crystal box mid
Handkerchiefs. The Vanishing Canaries and Cage Trtck.
Another Canary Cage. A Good Coin Illusion. Novel Mag or
Handkerchief Trick. The Chinese Kgg bng Trick. Card and
bouquet Illusion. The Mystic Travelling King. An Improved
Organ Pipe Production. Canary bird Trick. New Multiplying
ana Disappearing Coins. The Nelson Downs Cota and Scale
Effect. The Lee Bullet Illusion. Cords, Cains and Glass
Illusion. The Sybil Key Mystery.- An Improved Tom Card
Trick; A New Coin Frame ' A Sensational Card Trick. The
Adrian Plate Changing billiard Balt and Handkerchief. The
Robertsoti •Keene Novel Cabinet. The Duplex Flower Pot
Illusion. The Tricolour Flower basket. Effective Coin Vanish.
Indian Jugglery. Coloured Sands of Enchantment. New Pro.
gramme. King and Envelopes Trick. Spirit Writing. Tire
Mystic Celery Glass. A Novel Trick. Tire Wine bottle and Card
Trick. A Novel Slate Trick. A Neat Hnndkerchief Trick. The Kgg, Card and Wand Balance. T
The Tabic Lifting. A Good Slate Trick. Slate Writing. Novel Jug and Tub. Wonderful
Walking Kgg. Twcnty.five Balloons produced from lint. Mystic Canister and bird Cage.
Handkerchiefs produced from Glass. The Egg nnd Straw balance. Handkerchief Spinning
T.ick. The Candle nnd Mystic bouquet, billiard Bulls ami Cue. A Good Glass bowl Trick.
Tno-Li-Tao. The Marvellous Clock Dial. The Duck Cylinder, 1 he Secret at Paper Tearing Trick.
The Vest Servante. 1.1fling a bowl ofWaltr. The Vanishing llnlf-jience. The Mytag Coin. The
Penny through the Hat. The Coin in the bottle. The ImprovedSerranteTray. Improved Vanish­
ing Glass Tumbler. Vanishing Handkerchief Produced Dry from nGlassofWine. The Itypnolised
Wand. The Four Sympathetic Lady Friends. The Card and Cigarette Trick. The Milk,
Wfne and Mag Mystery. The Three Wonderful Cards. The New Card Trick. Dr. Elliott’s
Method of Dealing Seconds. A Novel Flower Ffcke.
Part II.—HANDCUFF, BOX AND SACK TRICKS.
Sack Trick. The Moknna Shoe. A Manacle Mystery. The Bean HandcuffTrick. The Figure
8 Handcuff Trick. A Handcuff Trick for Test Work. The “ Bean Ginnt “ Cuff. Latest and
Best Foke* to Open Regulation Handcuffs and Leg.irons. How to Pike Ordinary Handcuffs.
The Celebrated Trick Collar and Boll, A New Regulation Police Cuff. Escnpe from Zinc-
lined barrel. The Handy Pocket Ffcke for Regulation Irons. New* and Improved Fckc.
Original Packing Case Mystery. Escape from Packing Case made by Local Carpenter. How
to Open Linndcuffwithout a Key. The Rope Trick. The Goldston Packing Oise. The barret
Illusion. Tiie Escape from the Iron Trunk. Escape from Milkcan securely Padlocked, con­
taining three parts water. Improved Iron Cage. The Improved Packing Case Mystery.
Part III.—STAGE ILLUSIONS.
The Myalerious Cross. The Vanishing Performer Trick. Queen of Knives. The Bodylcss
I.ndy Illusion. The Ball nml Plank My.tery. The Pillory lllusiou. Silent Second-sight Art.
The Astounding Cremation Illusion. The Escape from Stag-Sing. The Stroubeika Illusion.
The Talking SkulL The Morrilt Cage Illusion. The “ Goklston Aga " Illusion, The Laurie
Cabinet Illusion. Famous Ducks and Tub Illusion. An Instantaneous Exchange. A Good
Cage Illusion. The Lady and Scale Illusion. Improved Vanishing I.ndy and Cage Illusion.
The Hcwes Levitation. A Novel Box Trick. The Mysterious Head Illusion. A Great I>cvital on.
The New Tub and Paper Bag Illusion. The Artist's Dream. The " bungalow" Illusion.
The Sudden Appearance of n Lady in nil Empty Box. The Mystery of L'Hassa. The Flower
Maiden Illusion. The Latest Plant (trowing Mystery. The Magic Kettle to hold Liquor.
The Real “ Aga" Illusion. Where, Oh where have rhey gone? The Va*e of Ink and Gold
Fish 111ualoo. The Birth ofFlora. DemnterialUation. A variation, Conradi's Mystcrium.
A. W. Gamage, LdL, Holborn, London, E.C.
