{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1959__nichols___for_the_record.pdf","mytitle":"For The Record","mylang":"de"}
FOR THE RECORD
by
John Nichols
-
CoPYRIGHT, 1959
by
jOHN NICHOLS
PuBusHD> jvu, 1959
JOHN E. RICHARDSON, TK
Champion of Individual Liberty
Soldier of The Light
Patron of Freemasonry
Modern Master of The Law
Founder,
The Great School of Natural Science
"And the Devil did grin, for his darling sin
Is pride that apes humility."
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
John Nichols was born at Sparta~ Tennessee,
March 1, 1876 and spent twelve of his early years
doing farm work.
Attended Webb Brothers' Training School,
Bell Buckle, Tennessee and Vanderbilt Univ ersity-
B.S., P.B.K.
He was with the First U.S. Volunteers two
yejirs - 1898, 1899 in the Philippine Insurrection.
His remaining spare time and idle moments
were spent chiefly teaching school, six years, an
Independent Fire Insurance Adjuster, thirty years
and doing. shipyard work for the government, three
years.
He is now vacationing in San Diego, California.
FOR THE RECORD
The suggestion has been made that I write , fOr the r e c -
ord, a detailed accow>t of my connection with the Work of T h e
Great School in America. This will comprise the reason why
I first undertook the Work, and why the connection remains un-
broken to date.
From my initial interest I investigated as best I could
the nature of the Work, and the validity of its claims. When
the disruption of the Work came, and the complete annihilation
of its continuance was threatened, I investigated in turn the m er-
it of the charges on which the determined destruction was predi -
cated. These investigations were made solely for my own sat-
isfaction, with no thought of attempting to convince anyone else
that the conclusions I reached were correcL
My acceptance of the task of writing for the record is
based primarily on the fact that my findings were the exact re-
verse of the written conclusions of those who took charge of the
Work and then, instead of carrying on the Work, endeavored to
eradicate all possibility of its successful revivaL
The second consideration is that I was, by experience,
and by an unusual, coincidental setting, peculiarly fitted to ap-
praise and verify the truth of some of the more unusual claims
made by TK.
Third, I feel it is but fair for those who are n ow, or
may hereafter become, interested in the Work, who are for-
ever estopped by the elapse of time from making a p e rsonal
investigation of the happenings of bygone years, that they have
the opportunity to read the dissenting view of one who made an
on the spot investigation, together with the reasons that support
this view~
What I write will be of no value except for those who can
accept and appreciate for their own use the truth it contains~ I
shall therefore concern myself largely with facts which I know
to be true, and endeavor to leave the distinction clear between
the facts and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
The experiences and deductions given herein have not
occurred to me in orderly and correlated fashion, and I men-
tion them in the, at times, seemingly disconnected order that
follows -- just as they appear to have bearing on the credibility
of the testimony being presented at the time. As a whole they
makemyconclusions compe l ling tome, anditisasa
whole I would have you consider them, trusting that the connec-
tion which is in my mind at the time will be clear to you in the
end.
TRUTH
TRUTH does not depend on whether it is known by any-
one or unknown to everyone. Truth is not affected by the be-
lief or the disbelief of anyone or of everyone. It is as real
from the jester as from the sage, from the addict as from the
divine. Truth is available to all who can perceive it; it is val-
uable only to those who make proper use of it. I doubt if Truth
can be proven to anyone. If you have personal knowledge al-
ready, no amount of proof will add to that knowledge. If you
have to take the word or the belief of someone else, it may or
may not be good. One jury hears the evidence, judges the cred-
itibility of the witnesses, and condemns the defendant to death.
On retrial a second jury of his peers, hears the same evidence
from the same witnesses and sets him free; and no one but the
defendant knows the facts.
BELIEF
The value of your belief depends on the thoroughness of
your investigation, and on your capacity for correctly evaluat-
ing the evidence you have unearthed. If you make inadequate
investigation, or if you ignore correct information offered you,
it is unwise to act on impulse.
For instance, you are figuring on how to cross a shal-
low creek without ruining the shine on your shoes. The water
is less than two i'nches deep, and the smooth, solid rock bot-
tom is coated with a thin covering of fungus or moss. A rag-
-2-
ged little urchin volunteers the unrequested information that the
rock bottom is slicker'n wet soap, and that if you wanna git a-
c rost 'thout gittin crippled yuh gotta take off yur shoes, go
slow'n don't take steps more'n a foot long. You are affronted
that an intelligent MAN should have to listen to advice from an
unmannerly brat. "Just watch THIS, Kid!!!'' and you start to
demonstrate what a fast man can do with a rwming start a nd
three long strides. During the three weeks immediately follow-
ing the first stride, while Nature and the Doctors are trying to
patch up your broken frame~ you meditate and ponder over
which one had the most on the ball -- King Solomon when he
said, "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit
before a fall," or the Roman Sage who put it, 11 Festina Lente"--
Make haste SLOWLY.
I have never been able to change my beliefs except
through further enlightenment. I could lie about it and claim I
believed the Bible was the word of God when I didn't, but this
in no way altered the fact that I did not believe it. I have found
that a man's beliefs indicate accurately the status of his intellec-
tual level. I£ you are looking for an instructor in geography and
the applicant says he teaches the flat instead of the round theo-
ry, you know whether or not you must look further.
TESTIMONY
Testimony has no value in a trial other than that accred-
ited to it by the judges. In THIS case the r eaders are the
judges -- the SUPREME COURT who examine only the printed
record. You are not permitted to study the demeanor of the
witness on the stand; you are spared listening to what is so
UIJ.ctuously referred to, in - ecclesiastical circles, as the
"SPOKEN WORRRD. 11 I shall therefore inflict you with a pen
picture o£ the witness who attests to this evidence, so replete
with alleged facts as fishy and unproven as anything in the Bi-
ble, Hindu Mysticism, The Theory of Relativity, The Atomic
Theory, or the Harmonic Series, that you should be driven to
one of the three following conclusions:
FIRST, that the writer is a demented inebriate, crazy
with the heat or with some type of narcotic ob-
session, who uses for his 11 IMAGINATION11
some form of psychotic delusion.
-3-
SECOND, that the w riter has sense enough to know what
he is saying, but that he is a constitutional,
unmitigated and monumental liar.
THIRD, that the writer is stating facts regarding life
after death of which he has p ersonal knowl-
edge , facts which have been known through-
out the ages by all who comply with the con-
ditions requisite to acquiring that knowledge,
facts that are now-- e v en in this latest
"DISPENSATION" whatever that is --av ail-
able to all who so comply.
This is not a case where "you pays your money and you
takes your choice." It is where you keep s your penny in your
clutches, steps up to the bar of thought and names your poison,
or your delight, according to your lights.
SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCES
The exercise of your spiritual faculties is nothing to be
ashamed of. It i s, instead, a m ost interesting and informative
experi,ence. Those, however, who have spiritual experiences
either know instinctively to keep mum about it, or they quickly
learn from the gla ssy stare of the first one to whom they men-
tion it.· Mothers will sometimes listen to their children tell of
their spiritual playmates, but they caution them never to men-
tion it to anyone else. If you will watch the sweetness of the
smile of a sleeping infant and compare it with the one it gives
in response to your efforts to make it smile, you will realize
how dim and crude you appear to its physical sight as compared
with the ones who were p laying with i t on the spiritual side
while it was physically asleep.
Blind men who can see as well as a scout, who can walk
through a woods surely without touching a twig, who can build a
house with the best carpenters, who can, walking rapidly, with-
out a cane, answer a call in, to them, a new part of the city as
quickly in the dark as a messenger boy can at noon, open the
gate, walk up the steps and ring the doorbell without hesitation,
adjust a taken down carburetor, assemble the material and
build a radio, are reticent to admit the fact that they can see
spiritually. They do not like to be called queer.
-4-
For example -- an insurance company was withdrawing
from a small mountain town-- six or seven hundred inhabi-
tants -- and our company was taking over all the risks that
would pass inspection. I drove up to the store and asked for
some one who could point out for me the dwellings on unnamed
streets by the names of the owners I had listed. Bill Sanders
was sent out as the one who knew the town best. Wearing very
dark glasses, he climbed into the buggy, between wheels heavy
with mud, without touching his trousers --not more than an
inch to spare on either side. After pointing out and describing
the first two houses, I suggested that if he would drive I could
check my inspection slips more rapidly. "I can't see. 11 "You
mean you do not see well ? 11 "No, I am blind, 11 and he took off
glasses, disclosing eye sockets that he said had been empty
since he was- ten years old -- about 30 years. "How did you
describe tliis house so accurately? 11 11 0h, the people tell me
about them." "How did you climb between those muddy wheels
so accurately without muddying your trousers ? 11 -- "Well, I
located the buggy by the horses champing their bits as I came
·around their heads. 11 "How did you know whether I was driving
a pony team or a pair of lengthy racers?" More hesitantly--
"Oh, I IMAGINE I see things as well as you do. They look lots
prettier to me than they do to you, the woods, the telephone
poles, and everything. 11 He seemed much more at ease when
he learned that I could see and describe , without imagination,
the trees as they appeared to him. The rough, dead bark dis-
appears, and the transparent etherial bodies of the trees stand
:resplendent in the most beautiful shades of light green and tan.
APPEARANCE
In this connection-- appearance-- let me mention here,
a fact that has been both interesting and comforting to me; and
it may be to you. When you are using your spiritual eyes, you
recognize an acquaintance in his spiritual body as readily as
you did in his physical body. In every instance where I have
seen and talked with friends after their physical death who were
dependable citizens before their death -- in their relations with
others, I mean, and without regard to what, if any~ creed they
espoused or whether they belonged to the 11 Saved11 or the "Un-
saved11 class --they in their spiritual bodies have appeared
much improved in looks, interest and happiness on the spirit-
-5-
ual level or condition. The improvement in looks may be due to
the fact that their spiritual bodies are brighter and more refined
than the physical bodi es I knew; but their animation and poise
are definitely more manifest.
On the other hand I have repeatedly noticed that these
ranches and coastal institutions in California, where much of
the labor and menial work is done by prisoners who have been
entrusted to theit care and superv ision of the rancher for the
duration of theit' short sentences, are persistently scouted by
a restless rout of derelicts from the surrounding spiritual, or
magnetic field, whose composure is woefully lacking. Not hav-
ing known them in their physical bodies, I cannot compare their
looks as of now except to say that i! it is improved now it was
formerly frightful! y unimpressive. They fit in well with TK' s
description of the "Magnetic Field''· They sometimes crowd
together , but appear to be every fellow FOR HIMSELF with ab-
solutely no sense of companionship or regard for the others.
SPIRITUAL COMMUNICATION IN ANCIENT TIMES
Conscious, intelligent communication between those in
the physical and those in the spiritual body is attested to in the
Bible more than one hungred times. The case of Saul of Tar-
sus is repeated most often. Armed with letters of authority
from the high priest, driven by zeal for his Pharasaical ten-
ets, he was on hi s way to Damascus to persecute the Christians
-- going the wrong way to do the wrong thing. The Lord, hav-
ing use for a man who would do what he thought he ought, sim-
ply swapped ends with him by showing him the light, and headed
him in the right direction. The followers saw the light which
blinded Saul, but heard not the voice.
AS OF NOW
Spiritual sight and hearing are demon~trated numerous
times daily throughout the land by good people who come to die.
Their bodies are refined and negative from abbreviated diet,
their minds are centered on the spiritual, and they see and talk
with their spiritual friends and relative s. The attendants, long
on IMAGINATION and short on information, say , "They are out
of their heads , IMAGINING things." But when an old lady on
-6-
her death bed open s her eyes wide and says with delight,
11 NOR1v1A11 -- the name of a sister who has been dead for twen-
ty years - - -; When a man, 6 5 says , "MOTHER, I'm so glad
you've come! ! ! How long can you stay? 1 Till I can go with
you? 1 I'm glad to hear that," a nd h e talks with h e r to the end;
When a most loved physician, Dr . Arch Trawic k of Nashville,
Tennessee, pronounced dead by his physicians, s uddenl y rise s
to a sitting position and says, 11 1 just came back to tell you that
all my friends are here, and that everything is all right. I
thought you would like to know;" and then sinks back, closes
his eyes and breathes no more --- wouldn't it make you wonder
who is doing the IMAGINING?
THE PEN PICTURE AND UNUSUAL
COINCIDENTAL SETTING
But, inept as I am at drawing, I can no longer stall off
the aforementioned pen picture threatened, together with the un-
usual experience and setting which enabled me to verify some
of the unusual statements made by TK.
I am frequently and picturesquely described as a dodder-
ing old codger with a hesitantJ uncertain stagger that reminds
one of a cow negotiating a spread of ice that is st:r:ewn Vlith bana-
na peelings. My back was broken in a high dive, the nerves did
not heal as they were before, and I like to imagine and ev en try
to believe that the lack of balance is due to physical rather than
to mental derangement and infirmity; but I cannot p r o·-re it.
I lack two months, according to hearsay e vidence which
I believe, of being eighty-three years old. Of m y o wn knowl -
edge 1 have for seventy-eight years been aware of the folly and
futility of pretense and subterfuge. I now haye nOthing to sell,
no axe to grind, no reputation to sustain, nothing to prove or
disprove. I stand to suffer no material loss or make no mater -
ial gain from whether or not anyone either believes or disbe-
lieves anything I say.
It was not always thus. For nearly thirty y~ars I was
an independent fire insurance adjuster who was supposed to,
and did, have some practical knowledge of the value of proper-
ties, damaged or undamaged. Sometimes my judgment of the
value of a salvage would be from thirty to fifty thousand dollars
-7-
more than the estimate of the a ssu red, and the compani es would
back up my judgment with c ash. If it had ever gotten n oised
abroad that the insurance companies were sending out a damned
Spiritualist, who claimed he could see and talk with dead people
and disembodied people, to tell sane busi ness men ho w to run
their busine s s, a v alua ble adju stment bus ines s would have
blown up in my fac e, and I would have had to go as far a way as
Timbuktu to finagl e a ne w start i n a new bus in ess under a n a s-
s umed na me. As it was, by writing unde r an assumed name
and wat chi ng my conversation alertly, what my business asso-
ciate s and competitors did not know did n ot hurt either them or
m e , and I was accredited with being a man of good, practical,
common sense. Now I have no b u sine ss to lose and I am not hes -
itant to say that black is black and white is white, even under my
own name.
REMINISCENT
I can truly say, with Spartacus, the oratorical gladiator,
th at my early boyhood ran quiet as the brook by which I sported.
I had no problems. Everything was eithe r right or it was
wrong. My father knew which was which and was kind and
prompt in answering my inquiries. I was sold on the right from
the st~rt, and when I learned what was right I was happily on my
way.
MY FATHER
My father, a Methodist circuit rider for more than fifty
years was a mountaineer of excellent physique and sterling char-
acte r. I have never known any individual who was so infallibly
prompt in doing what he decided was proper to do. He was de-
liberate ---- ve·ry rarely impetuous ----in making his decis-
ions; but, once they were made, he moved promptly and stead-
ily to a finality without regard to fear, the odds against him,
propriety, or the possible conseque nce s. Neither procrastina-
t ion nor dawdling fitted into his plan of procedure. If he were
encountering armed men, a mad bull or a mad dog, there was
th e same abse nce of hesitation or turning back, and he always
came through unscathed.
-8-
THE GRf.A.T WORk
LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD
In Bragg's army, at the battle of Murfreesboro, Tenn-
essee, his right hip was shattered by a "Minnie" ball which ren-
dered him a wasted skeleton, kept him at the brink of death for
six months, put him on crutches for ten years and left him a
cripple for life, his right leg being 3-l/2 inches shorter than
his left. While he was at the point of death for so long, he ac-
quired the ability to see and hear spiritually; and he learned
how to maintain this independent use of his spiritual faculties
at will through the remainder of his life. Under no circum-
stances would he eat heavily; and he used no stimulants or sed-
atives. His appetite was keen for the simplest foods, but tea,
coffee, tobacco, alcoholic beverages, and pork were strictly
taboo. His flesh was as nearly transparent, and radiant as
that of a healthy baby. In the face of a sumptuous feast he would
take only a glass of buttermilk if he felt he had sufficient food
on board already.. The hostess would attribute this to stomach
trouble -- of which he had none. To me he explained that pork
was too heavy and cloying to him. To others he would jocular-
ly explain -- "Anything not good enough for a Jew is not good
enough for me. 11 In addition, he was assiduous in keeping a
clear conscience and mind.
I did not know the cause for this abstemious regime on
his part until I was thirty-five years old. In analyzing the
conditions in which I. at times, could both see and hear spiTit-
ually -- a combination of physical refinement and moral purpose
-- I came to the conclusion that my father must be able to see
spiritually because he maintained those conditions at all times.
Upon asking him he replied that he had been able to see and.
hear for a great many years. As to why he had never mention-
ed it he said he did not care to land in the insane asylum yet.
After a schooling of 7-1/2 months he attained on his own ef-
forts a creditable education in English, Math., Greek, Hebrew,
and Philosophy-- creditable for his time and opportunity--
and wrote books and pamphlets that sold above the million
mark. For more than fifty years he rose in the morning at
four o 1 clock and read aloud ten chapters in the Bible --straight
through from Genesis to Revelation; this just as a reading les-
son, aside from his study, just to familiarize himself with his
ministerial working tools. I did this for twenty years of my
youth because it was being done in that portion of polite society
in which I was stationed; and I still wake up at four A.M. per-
iod. The fulminations of the "prophets" left too doleful a mem-
-9-
ory to tempt me as a steady diet, but I still enjoy the gems of
truth in the Bible as much as ever.
MY MOTHER
My mother, who died when I was five years old, was a
highly educated member of the old southern aristocracy, a col-
lege professor, a gifted pianist and linguist and a teacher par
excellence of children. Before they had reached the age of five
years each of her three sons, of which I was the third, had stood
at her knee and read the Bible aloud to her - from cover to cov-
er, while her knitting needles twinkled with dazzling speed. I
remember nothing about learning to read or write or learning
multiplication tables. The first thing I recall about arithmetic
was wondering why, in dividing common fractions, you had to
invert the divisor and multiply to get the right answer. The
first trouble I recall about reading -- I read by the 11 word11
method and my eyes kept about five words ahead of my voice
was to. ·distinguish between words of similar appearance, as
though and through; therefore and thereof, etc. I soon found
that hesitation was not necessary as the context would let me
know by the time my voice reached the word. On my fourth
birthd~y, after having learned by heart practically every story
in McGuffey's Third Eclectic Reader, (and I know many of them
now) when I was presented with a fourth reader, I thought how
nice it ·was to have a new reader for every year of your life.
BIBLE PROBLEMS
The first time I fell out v.rith God, as reported in Exodus,
was when HE kept hardening Pharaoh's heart after He had sof-
tened him up with plagues to where he would agree to let the
children of Israel go; and then going on to kill the cattle and
the first born-- which would have caught my oldest brother
whom I almost worshiped. I asked mother what right God had
to do this, and her answer was that whatever the Lord did was
good. This, which I remember well, was when I was three and
a half years old, as recorded in her diary of my judicial utter-
ances. From this time on I kept a sharp lookout for God's mis-
doings. I had no trouble believing the miracles as I was told
He was all powerful, and all wise. But I could not see how He
could, if He were all wise and all good, create man in His own
-10-
image and then REPENT that He had made him; no r why, if He
were just, He would set his CHOSEN PEOPLE to r ob, plw1de-:-
and murder others of His people who were not chosen, put their
women and children under the harrow and HAM STRING th eir
horses; how He would send a LYING spirit to entice Ahab to go
to Ramoth Gilead to be killed; nor how He would have His own
Son crucified to reconcile the FATHER to His children, rather
than reconcile the CHILDREN to the repentant Father.
At the age of seven I decided that I did not believe it,
but would lie about it to prevent disruption in my father's min-
isterial work--- with the proviso that I would later travel a-
round the world to seek proof of whether or not it was true --
since my father insisted it was true and could be proven so.
By the time I was twelve I had learned something of the uncer-
tainty of proof and the certainty of knowledge. Since that time
I have left no stone unturned to supplant faith and hope and be-
lief with knowledge.
SPIRITUAL SIGHT AND HEARING
From the age of four until now I have intermittently had
the conscious and independent use of my spiritual faculties of
sight, hearing and sense of touch ---the latter being slight and
more infrequent. 11 When the sign was right" they have simply
functioned as naturally and easily as my physical senses~ with
no effort on my part. It has at times seemed enticing to go fur-
ther and establish and maintain voluntary control and exercise
of these spiritual faculties , but each tirne I have given it ser-
ious consideration, I have either been impressed, or have come
to the conclusion that my work here and now needed more atten-
tion than I was giving it, and that the other was impractical for
the time. I get help when I call for it, but I do not call until I
feel it is entirely proper for me to do so.
CONTACTING THE GREAT WORK
In 1910, when my brother and I were co-principals of a
private University training school at Clinton, Kentp.cky, he call-
ed my attention to the Harmonic Series which he was reading.
He had almost finished the three voluznes and was preparing to
apply for studentship. I read them, found them far ahead of
anything I had ever seen or heard of, and I had read all the re-
·11-
ligions and philosophies that I had encountered. I immediately
wrote to TK and asked for an tnte r view which was granted. I
called my mother, who, from the spiritual plane, has never
ignored my call, told her I was going to Chicago to interview
a man who wrote more intelligently than anyone 1 had ever read,
and that if he passed satisfactory personal inspection I intende d
to do some work with him. I wanted to use her as a test of
whether he could see spiritually -- my mother died when I was
five and I saw her first after her death when I was thirty-five
and I asked if she would enter TK' s office with me and sit
through the interview. She said that she would. I then said,
111 want you to go with me on the train," and it made me laugh
when she said, 11 That will not be necessary. 11 I had no idea how
busy she was, but a stuffy, rattling sleeper evidently was not
enticing to her.
THE INTERVIEW WITH TK
As I started up the steps -- eight or ten -- to TK' s of-
fice building on Kedzie Avenue in Oak Park, just before my foot
touched the first step, I heard the swish of her dainty purple
skirt as my mother whipt down beside me, took my arm and
walke<;l up the steps with me. To avoid mental telepathy, I had
dismissed the agreement from my mind and had told no one of
the test we were making, not even my wife or brother; and I
dismis·sed my mother's presence from my thought and consider-
ation on being introduced to TK.
EXPERIENCE IN INVESTIGATING
I have studied people more thoroughly and extensively
than any other subje ct in the world. My interest began when I
found that the bell weathers who sat in "Amen Corner" and
shouted 11 AMEN11 the loudest and longest were not exactly what
the doctor ordered, ethically speaking. My innate aversion to
pretense, sham, false modesty, insincerity, piosity, effusive
unction, drippy sweetness and gushiness in general led me to
"Beware the Greeks bearing Gifts" of any kind.
LIARS
On the playground, in the schoolroom, in the church, in
the army, in adjusting thousands of losses with every type of
-lZ-
person owning property that ca n be dama g e d b y fi re, wind, wat-
er, or theft, I have met, spotted and classified many if not all
types of liars and combination of types that this country affords.
All I can say for TK is that his appearan ce and manner graded
as well as you would have expected from h is thought and his
writing, and this is tops. I had talked with him but littl e until
I sensed that he followed my thought more closely than my
words. He knew I was there to look him over; but I looked him
over just the same --not in any way discourteously, but much
more searchingly than I would have felt free to look at a woman .
Our conversation was, on my part, purposely incidental, al -
most casual. He had as perfectly shaped head as I have ever
seen. His eyes, clear and bright, were smiling rather than
piercing or glaring.
Let me say here that the prime purpose in my arranging
a personal interview with TK was not to hear what he would say,
but to observe his manner in saying it. For this reason our
initial conference was held to matters of casual import. If his
eyes did not tell the same story as his tongue, that would have
been all I would have cared to know about him. If he had seem-
ed interested in making an impression on me, that would have
been all.
My technique as an adjuster was to help the claimant
tell his story just as he wanted me to believe it. I asked sim-
ple, relevant questions, easy to answer, with no hint of sus-
picion or surprise in my mind, leaving my mind in a ctiv e and
blank to catch the impact of his thought. E v eryth il'_g he sa i d. a p -
peared to seem reasonable , plausib le and logical to rr...e ; b ut if
his thoughts did not track with the wo rds , he would just as well
have said in plain words, "This is my tale and it is going over
better than I had hoped. What a fool I have been to worry about
this when they send such gullible suckers out. to adjust losses. 11
After 28 minutes I started to go and TK said, "Your
time is not up. 11 The conference had bee n arxanged for thirty
minutes. Neither of us had looked at a watch , but I was able to
keep track of the time, and I think he was. I repli~d that I did
not like to have the time kick me out on the street on a limited
engagement. He said, 11! will give you another thirty minutes"~
and then we opened up a little more sociably. I asked if I might
-13-
meet Florence Huntley. He phoned and learned that her day
was filled, but that she would be glad to have me for dinner to-
morrow-- which was Sunday. TK explained that Sunday was
given over entirely for a visit from a Boston publisher, but,
if I would understand that it was his visit, I was welcome to
stick around as an innocent bystander. (Not his exact words)
This suited me better than I could have hoped, since I could
thus observe, unnoticed.
AN ALL DAY INTERVIEW
It turned out that the publisher from Boston was all you
could expect of a Bostonian -- - cultured, refined and INTELLI-
GENT. He and TK seemed to know each other, whether
through correspondence or personal association I do not know;
but he seemed to have accepted TK at face value, without reser-
vation. I was still staying on the fence as long as further obser-
vation was available, though he had met my fullest anticipation
and ho,pes so far.
We met at ten o'clock Sunday morning in TK1 s home just
opposite his office across the street. They got through with
their I?usine ss affairs in a few minutes, to which I paid no atten-
tion. We then set in for a gabfest which lasted through dinner
at twelve until five P.M.~ at which time we went for a stroll
until lunch at six; then till eight P.M. when we met with a
group of the Chicago students 1 a dozen or so 1 until ten.
It was as though two young men who had read much but
had never been out of the county had found a friend who had spent
several years picking up knowledge all over the world. He had
the outside information we were looking for and was as inter-
ested in sharing it with us as we were to get it. Without hesita-
tion or reservation he made full reply to any and every inquiry
we made; caught every curve we pitched at him as easily as
Yogi Berra would handle the fast ones with a hop on them that
his five year old son dished out. We carried him from the high-
est heaven to the lowest hell and back again, with lay-overs all
along the way, and he spoke as readily and easily as if he were
describing something that happened under his observation out in
the front yard just a few moments ago. About three in the after-
noon I ventured this observation. 0 If you are not a Master, I
-14-
will say that you play the pa rt as well as I could imaginee "
was convinced that he knew what he was talking about, and was
saying what he thought.
DINNER TIME
The dinner was served by Florence Huntley. Th e re
were no servants in evidence, and the i ndications were that she
prepared it. Its completeness and perfection as a meal fitt ed
perfectly with the philosophy, its presentation and its repre sent -
atives.
In particular detail, and as a whole it was a day easy to
remember and difficult to forget; not because of the perfection
of detail, but because of the perfect blending. The meal was
served as an adjunct to and an accompanyntent of the conversa-
tion, rather than as an annoying disruption. The perfect ser-
vice was there; the all pervading solicitude was absente The
effect was as restful and pleasing as an operatic performance
where the individual instrwnents of the orchestra blend into a
harmonious whole. and where the orchestra as a whole beauti-
fies and strengthens the loftiest and most inspiring efforts of
the singers rather than drowning them out at the crucial peak se
The same was true of the pervading sense of domestic accord
and happiness. It made itself felt without being demonstrated.
FLORENCE HUNTLEY
I think Florence Huntley was the m ost arresting p e rSon-
ality I have ever seen. At first glance she appeare d po sitivel y
handsome without any masculinity. The dainty, l oft y poise of
her shapely head with its wealth of beautiful hair, held high e-
nough to produce a floating effect, made yo u l ook a gain to see
just what happened. Queen Lil iuokalani , with whom I talked
for two hours in 1898, is the only person I h a ve s e en who approx-
imated this effect. Closer inspection revealed that Florence's
beauty a nd intellectual re s erve vied with her grace and charm-
ing indiv iduality to p r oduce an effect that was absorbingly de-
lightful . I verified this in a private interview with her later in
the afternoon. She found time in the serving to take appropri-
ate part in the conver s ation. At one time she asked TK to tell
u s of the time Jesus Christ from the twelfth plane addressed
-15-
the convocation of the Great School being held under the condi-
tions of the seventh plane. I was interested in the great dis-
tance He had to stay away to prevent injuring the eyes of those
on the seventh plane. Note -- the eyes of Saul of Tarsus were
blinded for several days by the light that prostrated him. My
mother's face is so bright at night that my eyes will not stand
the light. This is not so in the noon day sun. The eyes of both
TK and of my father had to me the appearance of having looked
too long at the sun though my father's eyes were a clear blue
gray, and I could not say just what gave me the impression of
their being slightly seared.
FLORENCE HUNTLEY AFTER DEATH
I have never seen Florence Huntley in person except this
one day. Some twelve years later, when she had been dead for
ten years, I saw her in her spiritual body. I was sitting on a
towering promontory of a mountain range, some ten miles in
any di>'ection from human habitation, and probably that far from
any living person. I was so far in the wilds that the squirrels
and the birds had no fear of me -- seemed to regard me as a
queer specimen of goat and would let me stand in three feet of
them and watch their movements, as interested in studying me
as I in them.
Suddenly, out of a clear sky, Florence Huntley, in com-
pany with my mother, appeared just in front of me -- ten feet--
and expressed smiling, reassuring approval of a decision I had
made regarding my personal determination in relation to wom-
en.
I have no memories more beautiful or refreshing.
Poised daintily and gracefully on my level, a lofty, perpendicu-
lar cliff beneath me; the same number of hundreds of feet of
empty space beneath them, they were beautiful beyond the pow-
ers of my imagination. I was so entirely alone, and no acquaint-
ance of mine knew within two hundred miles of where I was; yet
here they were, so happy in their association and so pleased
that I could see them and sense their approval. In the light of
the noon day sun I could see their features distinctly without the
pain caused by the brightness of my mother's face in the black-
ness of the night. Their dress was distinct enough to outline
-16-
THE FOUR KINGDOMS Of NATURE
EVIl INFLUENCES
the flowing grace of their figures -- not white, but too nearly so
to be cream or light tan. They crowned the grandeur of the phys-
ical setting to make it fade into insignificanc e, and then they were
gone.
BACK TO MY THIRD DAY WITH TK
Monday morning I visited with TK for an hour -- between
nine and ten -- and started to say "good-bye'' when he said he
would get his hat and walk down the street with me. He stopped
at the first mail box, dropped in a letter; we talked a minute or
two and I left him . Before I had gone a fifth of a block I felt
something was wrong. I had started hunting without my shells;
I had left the faucet running, or something of some kind was hay-
wire. Then I recalled that I had forgotten my test question.
Looking back I saw that he was still by the box, smiling at me.
Retracing my steps I said, 11 0ne more question." "Yes? 11 Have
you NOTICED anyone with me since I have been here? 11 When
you came into my office across the street Saturday morning I
noticed a woman come in with you. 11 "Would you hav ~ judged
her to be a relative of mine?" 11 1 would have taken her to be
your mother." "That's all; Thank you, and good-bye." I felt
that he knew as much about the situation as if he had listened in
on my arrangement with my mother to be present. This was the
beginning of a warm, personal friendship that has existed with-
out interruption to this day.
Two years later , travelling in his spiritual body, apart
from his physical body, he visited me in Nashville, Tennessee.
I recognized him in his royal purple robe as readily as if he had
been in western civilian garb, and talked with him. A full ac-
count of this meeting, together with corroborating evidence ap-
peared in the November issue of TO TOU m~gazine -- as follows:
-17-
("TO YOU" - Magazine -November - 1935)
Those vVho Bear Witness
,1111
•••
Physical Proof of A Spiritual Fact?
John Kirk
IIF EW people, if any, enjoy being
_ jeered at or considered queer,
whether the jeering is done by the
---ignorant and the inexperienced or
= b y the scicntifica1ly skeptical. This
is one reason why those with definite knowl-
edge of spiritual matters and life after death
do not speak of it freely. They realize too,
that it is futile to attempt to convince certain
dasses. The man who, with the evidence now
available, elects to believe not only that uThe
earth is the Lord's," but that it is flat and has
four corners and that the sun moves around
it, simply has to be left to work out his own
salvation. The same is -true of those in any
walk in life who are constitutiona1ly skepticab
Another thing that holds them back is th~
realization that they frequently do harm
rather than good to those whom they are try4
ing to help, due to ·the widespread tendency
of human ingenuity to seek a short cut to the
gOal. It is so fascinating to circumvent the
law. It is so alluring to set your eyes on the
glories beyond, so easy to miss the pathway
at your feet, and so human to substitute
doubt or self-pity for the acumen and energy
and persistence necessary to resolve and lay
the doubts.
Again, there are men of wisdom and dis4
crelion, working with a class whose mental
activities arc still within the pale of this or
that brand of Orthodoxy, who properly de-
cline to have their names linked with any-
thing that might be classified as "Spiritual-
ism" or "Mysticism." They are trying to
kindle rather than water the spark that dis-
turbs the clod and they do not care to risk
having their work and influence disrupted
by anything too far afield. They even fight
shy of the so-called "Supernatural" or the
"Subconscious"-terms used, for a wonder,
to designate the same thing.
Discretion is largely determined by time
and place. In the mountains where I was
raised the practice was so prevalent among
those who became entangled with the law
to go to Texas until the storm blew over or the
trouble was patched up that a discreet man
could not afford to let it be known that he
had even been to Texas on business. So many
would wonder what he really was guilty of
that prompted the trip. Anyone who had
"been abroad" could not afford to mention
it for fear of being considered stuck up. Long
since the days of Galileo it has often been
found unpleasant and even dangerous to 'jcast
before swine" even pearls of physical wisdom,
not to mention the spiritual.
Early in life I developed ·an antipathy to
bearing witness, due to the seeming sancti4
monious air of martyrdom assumed by those
who rose up in experience meetings to con-
fess before the Father.
Yet, despite these and many other deter-
('ents, I am personally in sympathy with what
you are trying to accomplish through your
-18-
11Those Who Bear Witness" section. I feel
t)lai those who have broken the halter,
jumped the fence and ·started out on a ram-
page after facts are entitled to some consid-
eration. You will understand then that what
I present is offered for better or worse, be-
lieve it or not. take it or leave it-in the hope
that it may interest some enquirer, and yet
cause no brother to offend.
It has been demonstrated that if you mix
the right chemicals you will get the right
precipitate regardless of your comprehension
of the laws of chemical affinity. If you obey
the laws of heaJth yon will be healthy even
though you could not distinguish a calorie
from a bromide or a germ from a vitamine
if you met them in the middle of the road,
side by side. It is equally true that if you
obey the law of spiritual unfoldment yon
will develop independent use of your spiri-
tual senses regardless of your theory or lack
of theory of the plan of salvation.
Afrer encountering in childhood an insnr-
mountable difficulty in bringing myself to
believe the story of the pJague! and the story
of the Tower of Babel, and the Fish story,
etc., I had to laugh at myseli for even contem-
plating the credulity necessary to believe that
a man of today could leave his body and
travel in the spirit realms and return at will.
Not being asked to believe it. and properly
so, I held it in abeyance.
Same people have no difficulty in believ-
ing anything they read if it happened as far
away as Jerusalem, and as long ago as a few
thousand yean, ~sp~cidl/1 if it otDas und~r a
Jiffn~nt dispensation, but I get a more defin~
he conviction from what I see and hear, here
and now. You can imagine my pleasant sur-
prise when I witnessed a demonstration of a
man travelling in his spiritual body and later
secured what an interested friend accepted as
physical proof of the fatt I give here a state-
ment of the facts together with a copy of the
proof:
My brother had lost his beahh in the army.
He and my father and I were sitting on a
river bluff in front of my home, talking. The
night was very dark. My father was saying,
"You can regain your health, and I can tell
you how you can do it" Expecting to hear
a minister of forty yean service say some-
thing about taking the matter to the: Lord and
trusting in his guidance, I was surprised to
hc:ar him say: "Tbe first thing you m ust
do is to do the best you know~ and the
next is you must ask for help from tho ee
who know more than you do."
As I was wondering how nearly he had
come to using the language of Natural Sci~
ence, which be had not read, I noticed a tall
figure about ten feet in front of me clothed
in a robe of deb purple. It was a much deep-
er shade than the robe I had seen my mother
wear, hut not more beautiful.
Glancing up I caught the eye and recog-
nized the bright face of the author of Th~
Great Work-TK. In impulsive surprise I
said, "Can this be you?"
Instead of smiling and saying, 11
1t-is 1/' he
gave an infectious grin, reverted to ung~am­
matical type, a:nd answered, "It's me all
right"
11What can you be doing here?" I asked,
and he answered, still grinning, "WeB, I am
here."
Turning his face to the right be smiled at
someone I did not see distinctly as I did not
take my attention from his face. I was only
conscious of a bright glow1about six feet to
the right of him. Then he turned and smiled
at me, fiined south over the river and was
gone. I did not see him on his course for
more than fifteen feet, and this was practical-
ly instantaoeous.
Nat day I told a matual friend, with
whom I was working, of the incident and he
questioned the accuracy of my observation.
He djd not doubt I had seen someone but
questiooed the identity of the visitor on the
grounds that TK was too busy to be snooping
arouod here. I assured him that the identity
-19-
was the one part of it about which I was ~ost
positive. On his suggestion that I write and
ask him I stated that I would not make a fool
out of myself by asking him something he-
knew that I knew. Possibly sensing the fact
that he was on the track of unique evidence
my friend insisted that I write him. I there·
upon wrote the TK an account of some inter·
esting confirmation I had recently received
from my father, whom he had never met in
the flesh. The letter called for no answer,
mentioned nothing about the incident in ques.
tion and did not refer to my friend in any way.
I submitted the letter to my friend's keen
inspection, and he agreed that it was perfect
fo r the purpose as a test, and that if an answer
came back referring in any way to the meet-
ing on the bluff it would be proof enough that
I could recognize a man's identity in his
spiritual body by sight and sound, or at least
that I had done so in this instance.
In reply I received the following letter,
written in the marvellously beautiful hand-
writing which too few have seen.
!::J aur go-oJ l._tt..,.. oJft•-t. :z.o'!!or"n.lt~ ~ "'- ,._.t wo.1~-u. t•'..~~fl'l·,
J ~f..:tc.o~<."lJ ~~ fo ~.,..,_L ;11. "'-""~ &ovvTcl.. h-... du1'1~ J rrPf>"'-u::a.t._
yo•..,. tt.ot·,.,...al. fo•'t,.~1..:p .fo-r q•l,} C:~ ;....., ~~..c. q'•tl 7,01A1 "t'tU.Io./~ t1u'1/
1 -...,11.t~ """""... to "ftq... 13.....-t J c .....!~ J., ;:t..,
J ...,.,...i. ~ ft....,u. !::Jo...._Jo-r- t,?,1,:".9 .,..., .. oj H.e.:;,t..,.ub'•'.!J c~-.......
n.t,:....W ~ ft..o.L knVt e.,.,,..... to !J ...... H,,...,..'-.!3'1, !:J<>tw-"b,?o.~u£!j';.,.H,...,.• :J1,,'1 nn.,
.:...c~.u~(J ttJ H.~ ...,,od aeXWc ;.,.;t:._...~ to .......v, c..4 '1'"'·.. .._:.u. ......c~.....~..,.J~
1...tt...· wf.. ....... -nn '1 .....~ H.....t .!'·"'~· ~ ....~Jt!:J maH,,. ~ :-..._ ./.-r...,.H.. ~.. .r...'Zl ......,
••....y,-n'ZJ}.~cl 4'-f'>'~"'(>c..f/,':1 ...,JI, flu .S~7•o•'"t, H,.,. W.,.,t( 11"0 J.j'..-1- .............. ...U~Jo.,
J """'" "1...'1,;.....9 f-., ""l.u-•...,,_ b,:{vr-t. Vc~ Lrn., H..n.t- ..,~(.,, 1,...,bu.,. -f.n-....t."Ut«t~-.~"ttiJ
M ~ a.ecH"u:{.:f.) .S"tuJc-t...l:.
j <1 ..... waf."J..',J ~eud..;....9~ to<ft:..n~· ...p....-£..,...... 7...J.. j,1f.-.t'Z.1.e~
to t..LL "'"Mt.1"f<r<..<.. g:-,._1!,...,.., .J ~'11. J 1"".-..J.:,..,..'fo....-J<n"I.•'Z"Z,. ,&1,.,..,._4nn.
1..:....... "••J a-. 9l""J to "tc-....., f!,.,.t ht. fu"Z.4 frn.. to /:Q-t.,( "'"/ j.,~ wp_..:H'I.HA -:.H..
~........ J .......,~ <!."l..co ~"1nd f!.n..f. ""l.t. q'•.l ._..• ., 1,,)....., ,,:} §;:..;,..,J:·---" "7u.......t..
btrO""'nl. t} ..o.J :f..;_...,,~, - - ~ rrl'l~ oJ fl..,. cf..tn.ru..L -l.,.,~ J 7uHJl &V...,•It.-oo-.n.
ntoJ/J ........... "t"lon.,J fl.~ "fVI.t ~•1J hr.. t"C'H-tL ~ iv-a.uh. in 1/,,i,....~t.-w ~J.
4#U co-~or,-"1J: 'to b~ '"f..ocl j>·a'ot:.o•c(J r.,,,) "tn.o.t."f:..rn.'fl"'f i..•""L(>f-•"7...•
.J ~.,.o-t<tll'1 .,..(\letr .6;.,co....1c1 7u.tJc. to10 '1 ....... of. ~'11-roAJ.n.c.r:- ..,u!
.. ..,........
1u•J .,......, 'r1.tri- .OJ,t-.AcJ -li(fncl "••J. JJfvfft.oto.c{:J.. 73.....t.,(;. u,.,.....,."'.fl.' ~
""-v~·· ......:....d,J ~ ~{_""'· .J,. -- '1...-.."Jnc-t..f....,-. .S7u ...;,n v_.,"ft ..;(..;~.
lo '"( ......,. !1"a.Jt.:...,- 4 ......-...t.t-.;.,~&.. 3 H..:..o-4(., 73....:l: l,,_.;l .,.._.,.l•...,u.L"~.. l>t.'l"l""MPO&I. ~•.;....,
·73'1 fl.,. Wtlf.(- ~t ~ ~t. #.....f "1"'... €1.1"C. 1..e. .....t"ic!o i..... K-!..J;..u.L...
!:f·~~ n.47<tJ nA-tcoft...- "V'"'c.d4;,-,... 3 ]H..,\1'- "'""u-l-..,.'Jud • .J ......:11. .................. :
'f"~"· ...t(.lf.,.... ol."~ "'"""'&He ....r/...,... '1•... w-c.t·&. ......:.J./.. ........_.._ , -G....L.,/.o. ol...".l
,,...t· ~~ c.c.lt r.. ~.. c.- c..(......tltt '~ ft.t.1.o."~ "'l" ff•...k u .....pt..,J t... ....1 ,~d....J;........
.:JJ., ,...,kf ~..u. of .J...iJ~ 1 ..4d:..v.... ....:..U. 1n.. -....A: Ln. e..l.-1 fD d••'"f3J
J/.;..w-c t/.IA"r:. ,......... .ll..,tu. fl..,;...,~ ~... i.J t/...i u:..t£ ~fi.,.wJ; '(__..•
Ji/<JI. '(~·.:t.... "'f-.'....),..,.;~
-20-
Twelve years latt~r, in a letter dated 11-6-24
TK wrote me:
"I. Yes, I recall very definitely the meet-
ing with. you and your father and brother to
which you refer. So far as I was concerned,
1 h:ul Mt intl'nded nor expected to c:1ll on you
2t that time. 1 was travelling (in the spiritual
body} with my Great Friend, Hooknaka, The
Master who carne to me in 1883, in this State,
and who became my instructor and guide,
l was interested in your brother's condition,
and the inform.:~.tion came to me that I could
see you then and there, and I simply went.
"I was rather surprised to observe the fact
that you could see me, and still more so to
note that you could understand what I said to
you. It was to express my pleasure that I
turned and looked at the Great Master and
smiled. • • • I knew afterwards when I re-
ceived your letter that you had not written
me because of any doubts in your own mind
or that you needed confirmation, and, in fact,
I rather surmised that you had in mind some-
thing else at the time.
11
2. On that occasion, you saw and heard
me solely because of your then internal and
psychical condition and attitude of Soul. It
was not through any effort on my part that
you saw and heard me. Nor do I believe you
had any definite outside help on that occasion
when you saw and talked with your Mother.
You were much interested, during those days.
in the subject of spiritual things, and your
mental attitude and soul in(erest in the subject
were the principal clements in the situation
that opened your spirituarsenses, for the time
being. Had it been possible for you, at that
time, to pursue the subject of your own spirit-
u:al development under proper guidance, it
would have been possible for you to have de-
veloped all your spiritual senses to complete
independence, in a comparatively short time.
But it is beuer for you, no doub~ that you
were no further diverted into that channel
but were permitted to deYOte yourself to the
demands of the physical life and responsi-
bilities. And I would say the same thing
now. So long as the material problem has its
claims upon your time, attention and person-
al efforts, you will find it easier to let the spir-
itual problem of developing your spiritual
senses rest until you can give your attention to
it and feel free to do so without neglecting
already assumed responsibiiities. But when
you have accomplished the things on the
physical plane, and feel at liberty to devote
yourself to spiritual unfoldment, it is my
judgment that you will experience compara-
tively litt1e difficulty in accomplishing the
development rapidly.
Your Elder Brother,
J. E. Richardson, TK."
TRUTH: "The established harmonic relation which the facts
of nature sustain to each other and to The Individual
Intelligence or Soul of Man. 11
- John E. Richardson
-Zl-
PHYSICAL PROOF OF A SPIRITUAL FACT?
Let me make it clear here that I believed then, as I be-
lieve now, that there is no physical proof of a spiritual fact.
T h is is the reason for the question mark in the heading (? ).
The blind may believe in sight, the deaf in sound, and the dumb
in intelligence; but they have no personal knowledge of it, res-
pectively .
The fact that my friend, having confidence that I had
elicited t he letter from TK in the manner stated, was convinced
from the corroboration in the letter that my account of the meet-
ing was true does not qualify him to say that he has personal
knowledge that it was true.
I do not hope to prove to anybody that anything I have
said or may say here is true. But I do hope to state facts with-
in my knowledge so directly and in such variety that it will be
a t least as much, if not more difficult to DISbelieve than to be-
lieve the m; a n d that you may be led to demonstrate them for
yourself, or selve s, as the case may be.
I do know that, after physical death, we continue to live
continuously -- in spiritual bodies with the same individu-
a lity we have developed while in our physical bodies, and that
we she·d our physical infirmities with our physical bodies. We
carry over all the strength of character and intelligence we
have acquired, as well as all the weakness and ignorance we
hav e failed to master.
The so called "GREAT JUDGMENT DAY" is with us
the re as it is here, namely, in every conscious act of our
lives. We cannot run away from our ignorance nor our weak-
ne sses, nor die away from them, because we carry them with
us . This makes every moment of e ve ry day one of opportunity
and p romise if we set our hearts on the uphill course.
And we need have no anxious concern about who says
what we must b e lieve , what we must do. We all have knowl-
edge of our own as to how we would like to be treated, what we
would like to receive. We also know intuitively how we should
-22-
treat others, and how, to avoid congestion. We must maintain
a balance between giving and receiving. This is true in all
walks of life, social, economic, physical and spiritual. Con-
gestion is stagnation, disease, and death; clearance by circu-
lation is life and health and growth. We have only to try it to
know the joy and reap the reward.
THE BREAK
Before the breakup of the Chicago group came, I had
completed the ethical section, judged it to be all that was claim-
ed for it and was preparing to apply for the Technical section.
When I received the twenty-two page letter from Dr.
Hille in November, 1916, announcing the suspension of the w·ork,
I arranged to go to Chicago to look the situation over from the
viewpoint of those who participated and concurred in the disso-
lution. I went armed with the personal knowledge that TK had
the ability to see and hear with his spiritual faculties and that
he could travel without his physical body, communicate with,
identify himself to, and see and hear those in the physical body
who had use of their spiritual faculties.
MONEY FOR PERSONAL SERVICE --THURSTON
As to finances, I had the confidential statement of Gates
P. Thurston, a classmate of mine at Vanderbilt University and
who was wealthy in his own right, given to me in a long, person-
al interview in his room at the Hermitage Hotel in NashvillE{,
Tennessee -- as follows: Gates had dabbled with hypnotism,
as a hypnotist, until, 11 I was in so deep that I fonnd myself con-
fronting a black wall which I could not penetrate, and from which
I could not turn back. I went to see a wise friend of my father 11
(his father was then dead) "who lived in New York and asked his
advice. He said that ii there was one man in the United States
who could help me it would be John E. Richardson in Chicago,
and that he would do it if he could. I went to see Richardson,
he took me into his home as a younger brother, relieved me at
once and kept me there for several weeks (six, 1 think it was)
built me up on a positive diet, mainly of rare beefsteak, before
he would let me go. I HAVE NEVER BEEN ABLE TO PAY HIM
AS MUCH AS A TWO CENT POSTAGE STAMP." He volunteered
-23-
this statement to me when I haJ no idea he had ever heard of
Richardson, and I believe it. I later verified this incident from
TK. Thurston died shortly after this.
HILLE
From Dr. Herman Hille I had detailed confirmation of a
story he had told my brother Paul of how when he - (Hille) -
was being forced out of a business partnership for ten thousand
dollars, OR ELSE, TK appeared out of the blue, (my words)
and secured $300,000.00 for him from his partner through auc-
tioning off Hille's half interest. Hille's partner was threaten-
ing to kick him out with nothing unless he would sell for ten
thousand dollars. Hille tried to get TK to take $150,000. 00,·
but was unable to get him to take a dime. TK did agree to use,
as residence and office, Hille's two dwellings on Kedz_ie, but
would not take title. Hille did not mention the item of rent to
me.
LARKIN
John Larkin told me in his home in Buffalo, New York~
that his father tried to give TK a property to be used as a hospi-
tal, IN HIS OWN NAME. TK would not have it so and his father
would not have it otherwise, and that they finally worked it out
that the hospital be governed by a Board of Trustees. That he,
Larkin, went along with the inquisitors to witness the expected
debacle at Pasadena only to see their supposedly invincible evi-
dence vanish into nothingness as it was presented and to see
them troop away empty handed like a bunch of school children
who had tried to take the master to task. Larkin said that, in-
stead of seeing TK cringe, they went away as pitifully whipped
as they had hoped TK would be.
NATURE OF CHARGES
As I have stated above I undertook this investigation for
my own satisfaction, to be convinced myself, with no idea of
trying to convince anyone of anything. I endeavored to get from
each one interviewed his own story as he wanted to have it be-
lieved. I was unable to contact anyone who knew anything ex-
cept the crudest of here say charges, charges easy to make,
-24-
difficult to refute, from "five reputable women. 11 When Dr.
Hille mentioned with impressive concern the value of his two
dwellings on Kedzie, I asked ii he had lost them. He replied,
No, that he had retained title. In regard to his statement that
TK had given him no scientific advice or help, and that all his
remedies were, without exception, the result of his own stud-
ies, knowledge, efforts and labor, I innocently asked about the
help he had told me Michael Faraday, working with him in his
own laboratory, had given him. He answered, "They told me
it was Michael Faraday; but I didn't know who it was." The
11Biosol' 1 they produced was the best medicinal tonic I have ever
contacted. Because, as I was advised, of trouble he had with
the U.S. Government in the first world war over the charge of
encouraging draft dodging, he was very reticent to discuss the
matter with my brother Paul and me, except to let it be known
that his wife felt that if the Germans did not wi~ this war then
there was no such thing as justice in the universe. I happened
to know that TK did not go along with this idea, but whether it
caused any rift between them I do not know. In the second
world war, when Hitler was riding high, my brother, Paul .:!nd
I called on Dr. Hille in his laboratories, and I asked if he had
any ideas about "Handsome Adolphe. 11 He answered with fervor;
"I certainly do, and I DON'T CARE WHO KNOWS it. Hitler is
at Berchtegaden, up in the mountains, communing with the Gods,
and 11 da da da da daaaaa. He was a sincerely patriotic German.
SPAULDING
Hector Spaulding's only criticism of TK -- based on his
own judgment was that TK was egotistical. He was absolutely
infatuated with TK from intimate association with him for two
years. On the first wave of hearsay charges he was convinced
that TK was a heroin addict and a libertine. He admitted that
he had had much better opportunity to know TK than he had to
know the women, but he took their word because, "I KNOW
WOMEN."
CONFERENCE WITH CHARLES DORRANCE
In Dorrance's office, when I could not enthuse properly
over what they had "discovered" about TK, Dorrance, a jolly
fellow disappeared into a side room and a German overlord
-25-
bristled up to me, and, in a tone which suggested that he might
want to make a personal issue of it, blustered aut, ''They tell
me you are up here trying to defend a man who is guilty of this,
that and the other, and we don1 t know but what he murdered
Florence Huntley." I asked, softly, 11 Are you willing to charge
that he murdered her?' 1 and he suddenly cleared away the at-
mosphere and the room of his presence, without a reply.
EVIDENCE
I had seen nothing of intelligence or reason, and could
contact no one who claimed to know anything. I had neither the
time nor the opportunity to attempt to ferret out the causes nnder-
lying the disruption. I had found nothing here that rang true. I
had formerly heard rUiners that there was rivalry between Dr.
Webster and two students of the Technical Work as to who was
making the best progress and who was headed for the position
of top man. I had heard of Mrs. Hille1 s intense feeling over
the G~rrnan situation. The unverified picture came to mind
that here was a situation ripe for the genius of anyone interest-
ed in starting a scandal mongering campaign. --- A movement
flowering into the proportions of big business. An aging leader
who might be ousted. The position of Queen, worth scrambling
for left vacant by the death of Florence Huntley.
FAITH AND KNOWLEDGE
Many times in life I have hung my faith on a peg that
seemed secure only to see the peg shaken loose and swept away,
but my faith in eternal justice has remained constant. If I find
an error in arithmetic I do .not lose faith in the actuality of a fix-
ed relationship between quantities, If I fail to hold myself to my
highest ideal I do not lose faith in my privilege to try again.
But when faith has been supplanted by knowledge, there is no
peg to shake loose, and nothing to be swept away. So, when an
·overly aggressive soul saver assures me that I am a lost soul;
that I must believe whatever he is collecting for or be damned;
that if I do not hurry and get on the band wagon it will be too
late; when he secures from me a promise that if he is available
I will let him know when I come to die and am facing the fires
of eternal torment, so that he may have the pleasure of watch-
ing me cringe and cry for mercy from my Maker, it ruffles me
-26-
not a whit, and I am pleased to oblige. For I know that UNLESS
the PRESENT ORDER CHANGES pretty quick now I will be wel-
comed by my many friends at death just as I was welcomed by
those ready and pleased to care for me when I started out on
this fascinating sojourn in the physical flesh. This waiting for
the trumpet to sound and the dead to be raised up is OUT.
THE DEAD "INFIDEL"
In this connection, and at this point, permit me to relate
an incident that happened in my father's life, shortly before his
death. In the small town in which he lived the last years of his
life there was a most estimable gentleman who was rated by his
over religious sisters, 'Nith whom he lived, and by the clergy
in general, as a sinner, an infidel and a lost soul because he
did not believe the Bible (as they believed it). He even twitted
the preachers who came at him too aggressively, either on
their O'Wll initiative or at the instigation of his sisters. The re-
lations between him and my father were cordial, since both
seemed to realize the intrinsic worth of the other. When he
came to die he requested that my father be asked ta preach his
funeral. The large room in his home was filled with his sisters•
religious acquaintances who had come to 11hear the preacher
preach an infidel into heaven, 11 and 'Nith an equal throng of peo-
ple of not so much social import in the outlying district. There
was surprised interest as to how these people knew of the funer-
al, and how they happened to be interested enough to come.
As father approached the horne there came to his mind
the passage; "The Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man look-
eth on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. 11
As he entered the large reception room he saw his dead friend,
very much alive, leaning against a door frame, studying with
interest the faces of those who were passing in line to view the
remains of the departed. As father went over to speak to him,
he said, "I 'Wish you would tell my sisters that I am not burning
in hell fire. 11
Before father got well into the theme that we sometimes
make the mistake of judging our fellowman by human standards
which are not God's standard, a lady rose and said, "This is
one of those times. My lips have been sealed by a solemn
-27-
promise , but the seal is broken now and I am going to speak out.
My husband was out of work and sick and we had nothing to eat.
This man, a stranger, came in and took over until we were well
again and made us promise never to mention it to a soul as long
as he lived. When she became too full for utterance another rose
up with a similar story in different setting. By the time six or
seven had broken do'\Vl1. the floodgates of silence there was so
much weeping going on that further speech was superfluous.
Some may have been saddened by the thought; "Inasmuch as
ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me."
11 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this,
To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to
keep himself unspotted from the world. n
UNUSUAL SETTING
Now, as to the unusual setting which gave me the oppor-
tunity to verify many of the unusual claims made by TK. ---It
came- ~-bout by my being able to check, one against the other,
the divergent views of two men who had full use of their spiritual
faculties -- insofar as the ability to communicate with people
supposedly dead is concerned. My father learned to maintain
the inqependent use of his spiritual faculties by what he gleaned
of truth from his study of the Bible. He tested and found true
that when he complied with the required conditions he need have
no fear- under any circumstances that the Lord would not do His
part.
Since he had proved the truth of the essential parts of it
and it was generally admitted by God fearing people that it (the
Bible) was the Word of God, he did the, to me, impossible feat
of swallowing the book as a whole, and thereafter he wrestled
mightily with an annoying case of intellectual indigestion. He
could see his spiritual guide or guardian angel who was by his
side in extremities, and, since he was serving Jesus Christ he
had no doubt that it was Christ in person. He knew nothing of
TK except that he was reported not to be an orthodox Christian,
and this was all he wanted to know. He did not read the books,
(Harmonic Series) and knew nothing of hypnotism, but was con-
fident that TK had Paul and me hypnotized.
-28-
SAVING A SOUL
Late in his life he decided to take a hitch at saving my
soul in the orthodox fashion. He preached character consistent-
ly and powerfully. While assuring dying sinners that they could
still be saved by faith, he urged young people to do the clean
and fair thing and not cheat God in the end by giving him a sin-
soaked life. But when it came to argument, be was a gifted
genius in doctrinal debate. He prided himself that he never
asked for a debate, and never declined one. But under internal
duress he broke his rule and challenged me to debate with him
the validity of the scriptures. I declined on the grounds that
people argued for the purpose of giving rather than getting infor-
mation, that they purposely misunderstood, ntisinterpreted,
dodged, lost their temper, etc .... He insisted that debate made
for clear thinking, and that there was no need for us to dodge or
lose our tempers. ''I seen he had me and finally give in~" on
the written agreement that we would not dodge nor misunder-
stand, that we would not lose our tempers and that we would
confine the discussion to the one question, Is the Bible totally
the word of God, given by inspiration, and true in detail?
On the third exchange of letters he flipped his lid and
wrote me a letter that was a masterpiece of sarcasm. I have
never laughed so heartily at any writing. People on the train
wanted me to give them the benefit of it if it was so good, but
since the joke was too rough on him I had to assure them that
it was a personal matter.
THE JUDGMENT
"A young limb of the law educated in church schools; too
proud to surrender; too independent to accept God's grace be-
cause it was free, so egotistical that he preferred to go it
ALONE, WITHOUT God; on the judgment throne, despite God's
injunction, 'Judge not that ye be not judged, 111 etc., etc., etc.
"No doubt the Church would tremble at the tread of my mighty
feet .•• " I answered that I was in sympathy with what the church
was trying to do but that if it were allowed to save souls in their
own way, I wanted to take my chances in my own way without
being dubbed a dog of an unbeliever. That I hoped to get along
peaceably with the brethren. That I did not know if I were ego-
-29-
tistical or not but that I did know that I had no cause to be, my
attainments being so far below my maximum potential. That I
did not mind being criticized but I did not relish being unceri-
moniously jerked off the judgment throne, only to have him bob
up in my place and sound offi and that when it came down to
cases I suspected the holy fathers would tremble at the tread
of my mighty feet as much as I would quake at their excommuni-
cations and maledictions. That it was only by giving him credit
for having less sense than I thought he had that I could credit
him with not dodging over my aversion to being saved by God1 s
mercy and free grace when he knew it was the unmerited part
of it that I could not trust or desire. In discussing the so-
called "GREAT PLAN OF SALVATION," he complained that
my letters were too wordy and that he could catch the idea if I
would boil them down. I explained that to me it was GREAT
only in its stupidity, not worthy of a tramp and that my idea
of it could be boiled down to the one word, ROT, but if he want-
ed to know 11 why", it would take more words.
THE CHECK UP
When I checked his statements regarding life after death
again~t TK' s, they agreed perfectly except where personal or
religious equations came in. He did not believe mother was
anywhere TK said she was, but when he would ask her she would
say she was there.
I asked him to ask mother if she had ever seen Jesus
Christ. I thought she was on about the fifth plane (no DEFINITE
information), while TK said that Christ was one of the three
rulers of the .twelfth plane. 11 And while you are at it, ask her
if they marry where she is. TK says they do and the Bible says,
"They neither marry nor are given in marriage." 11 1 will, and
I am satisfied I know what she will say." (Mother met with him
regularly every two weeks.)
On our next meeting I asked, "Did you ask mother the
questions?" 11 No, she would not let me. When she saw what I
was going to ask she started to leave me. I called her back and
tried, with the same results, and the third time she left me."
"Do you know wh}r?" ·~She evidently did not want to answer the
questions." "I think I can tell you why. You are the most mod-
-30-
est man I know regarding your accomplishznents, so reticent
that it is difficult to get you t o talk of them. When it comes to
your beliefs, about which you know nothing, you are so dogmatic
that it is unpleasant to differ with you. You have worn patched
trousers and eaten poor food to educate your children, only to
have them become to you, objects of the mo st delightful ridicule,
and to wonder what is the matter with THEM. Education is a
course in .learning how to think, not believe, and the trouble is
with your ignorance and not with Paul's educati on . Mothe r sim -
ply does not want to explain what is th e matter with HER beca use
she has failed to find out that your b e liefs are corre ct. If you
will tell her that you are in a discussion in which we wa nt to
learn some facts from her. I think she will answer you. n
On my next inquiry he answered, "Yes, I asked her, and
it is not going to shake my faith if God sees fit to inspire m e by
some servant other than his son. 11 I replie d, "1 am not inter -
ested in shaking your faith, though you don't seem to m ind hav -
ing a try at mine; I am just after the fa ct s of the situation . " He
thereupon suggested that we conside r the m atte r c losed , and we
did, thus breaking for him another lifelong rule -- neve r to re-
quest the ending of a debate.
MOTIVATION
Some mode rn --- and possib ly ancient- -- philosophers,
psychol ogists and psychoanalyst s hold that ''Motivation Deter-
mine s Per ception ." I would ag ree that it TENDS to INFLUENCE
pe rception; but the case above proves clea rly that it does not
determine PERCEPTION. If this had been a case of "IMAGIN-
ING THINGS" or of wishful th inking, my fathe r would have got-
ten the answers he e a rne stly desired and firmly believed he
would get--- "l was NOT there 11 ---"I HAVE s e en Him 11 - --
"They do NOT marry he r e, " etc. Instead he steadily reported
the exact reverse of what he expected. "What do you think of
it ? " I would say. "We ll, she say s she WAS there. That's all
there is to it . ''
IN RETROS P ECT
Aside from the limited personal a s sociation mentioned
herein I had friendly c orrespondence with TK for twenty-five
-31-
year s. He had received from me only a soul-searching examin-
ation, so critical that it bordered almost on the impertinent,
yet he continually subscribed himself as my friend in such a way
as to make me feel it was true . That he continued to express
deep appreciation for my friendship and confidence was possibly
due to the fact that he knew that I KNEW that his statement was
true regarding his attain~ents in the exercise of his spiritual
faculties. Though when he visited me out of his physical body
he appeared ple ased only that I could see and hear - with no
thought that now he had proof to others that his claims about
himself were true. Of Florence Huntley's death on February l,
1912, he wrote me: "Her going will m e an a loss to the Work
and the movement which cannot be repaired. No woman was
ever more loved, nor more loyal than she, and as head of the
Woman• s Department she has done a work which no one else
I have ever known could have accomplished."
Of his death, the woman whom he chose in his hour of
great~st need to uphold him , who knew of me only as his friend,
whose character, intelligence and courage has kept alive to this
day the Work to which he gave his greatest effort, wrote me:
6-24-1935
Dear John:
Your two letters of June 12th and 18th have been
received. Both are most interesting and vital,
and deeply appreciated; and more valuable than
perhaps you realized when you wrote them.
It is a difficult task, but one which devolves on me,
to tell you that on June 12th - the date of your letter -
our beloved John made his final transition to the spir-
itual world at 10:10 P.M. out on the place in the lit-
tle valley, under the shining moon and myriad stars
and surrounded by the stately mountains which he so
enjoyed. ---
He completed his transition peacefully, quietly and
consciously. It was very beautiful and wonderful -
the ease, the confidence, the assurance with which
-32-
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
THE STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
it took place; typical of John in its simplicity ,
dignity and beauty. And just in time for him to
be prepared for the Great Convocation which
took place on the 15th. It was as if it had been
planned, ---
So ends another chapter in the Great Book of
his life. A great man, and one whose life was·
a complete exemplification of that which he
taught.
His physical life is ended; but he and tbe Great
Work continue on, uninterrupted by his physical
passing. ---
We are asking that his friends respect his wishes
that his personality be kept in the background and
that they make no issue of the transition.
Sincerely yours,
Noneta
FINALE
By all rules of rhyme and reason this writing for the rec-
ord should end here, since I have written most of what I know
about the case that comes to mind now. History records th.3.t
Masters do not try to defend themselves against the charges of
the rabble. But yet though, notwithstanding, however, and on
the other hand; while I am in no sense a Master --unless it be
in the sense that I am master of my own destiny--- there have
been made in this case charges and more charges that, as I see
it, gibe neither with rhyme nor with reason. I have not devel-
op~d close to that state of self abnegation where I am loth to de-
fend either myself or my friend against slanderous charges,
whether made maliciously or ignorantly.
-33-
LAW ON EVIDENCE
It is a well established principle of law that where the
testimony of a witness has been discredited on any material
issue in the case, his testimony as a whole is thereby disqual-
ified, eradicated and expWlged from further consideration. I
believe this is true, or should be true whether the false testi-
mony is given through malice or stupidity. In this case the book
by one Doctor West falls of its own weight on both counts - does
not deserve to be dignified by further consideration.
I know of hearsay evidence which I believe; I KNOW of
analogous cases which, to me, are enlightening but which can-
not be submitted as proof. I shall therefore ramble on a bit
in a disconnected and Wlcorrelated fashion, and you can fall
off when you lose interest or fail to see the connection.
NARCOTICS
I have dealt with liars, and with insane people, but never
with a narcotic addict, so I have no experience nor ability in
spotting one who uses opiates. There are two people, one living
and the other dead who should have had the ability to spot the
truth or falsity of the narcotic charge -- Noneta Richardson
and Dr. Riley. I have known Noneta for twelve, pleasant years,
and from the standpoint of intelligence. accuracy and veracity
l would give as full faith and credit to any statement she makes
as I would to the oath of anyone I know. Noneta writes me of
10-22-57: "As I told you during your visit here, I certainly
never did see any indications of drug addiction in John during
the twenty-seven years of close association with him. The West
book contains many lies that I know of; many of which I have
been told by Mr. Candlish or John but of which l do not have
personal experience. However, on the addiction matter I DO
have personal knowledge. 11
When I first met Dr. Riley, I had never heard of him and
I doubt if he had any knowledge of or concern as to my identity.
I later came to regard him as a man of unusually alert mentality
a nd deep- spiritual insight. I was on my way to pay my first
visit to Noneta, and was endeavoring to make connection with
the opposite end of the tortuous trail which leads to the moun-
tain retreat of the Great School of Natural Science. Some one
-34-
had advised me that a Dr. Riley could be of assistance , a n d I
called on him. He spoke of Noneta as though he knew her well ,
and I asked if he knew Richardson. He replied that he was his
personal physician for many years up W1til his death. 11 How did
you rate him ? 11 I asked. He answered simply, 11 He is TOPS in
my book."
KNOWING WOMEN
My wife, who was a student of the Work under Florence
Huntley, and I visited in the horne of Hector Spaulding's Grand-
mother in Chicago at a time when Noneta and other nurses, TK,
Hector, Dr. Webster, Hille and other students of the school
were one happy family in their association at Edgemore Sanitor-
ium. Hector was a very personable and promising graduate of
the Harvard School of Law who was delighted with TK as a man
and with the Philosophy of the Great School. When rumors be-
gan to fly, Dr. Webster claimed to believe them, and the break
came. I visited and conferred with Hector as hereinbefore out-
lined. I gave, and still give, him credit for being sincere in
his belief that TK was egotistical and in his confident assurance
that he knew women. It was evident to me that he did not know
men as I judged them; and I am convinced now that he did not
know women as well as TK did, I did not feel it worth while to
discredit myself with him in his mood of assurance by telling
him what I knew about TKi and I did not know the women in
question. It appears from studying the record that he believed
the ones who cried the most, admitted the most, and charged
the most and disbelieved the one plastered with the most stupid
charges I have ever known.
DEATH OF MY MOTHER
My mother died shortly after my fifth birthday. Three
weeks before her death, when we were advised of the death of
her father, she said, 11 1 will be the first to see father again. 11
Two weeks thereafter she showed father where she had her
burial clothes stored and announced the latter part of the third
week as the day of her death. She did not talk to me, but told
my brother, Paul, who was five years older, that I was little,
and that she wanted him to take care of me. This he did so faith-
fully that when I was seventy and he seventy-five he still regard-
-35-
ed me as his little brother who had never grown up. She told
Paul, "Don't ever bother'to visit my grave, for I will not be
there." I have never felt the slightest inclination or desire to
visit the grave of either my mother or my father. Have felt
that they did not care to see me hanging around there. I know
they do take considerable interest in what I am doing.
It took strong conviction and character for a woman of
education, and culture, to leave a home of luxury and high
social position and take up life with an illiterate 1 crippled cir-
cuit rider in the impoverished mountains shortly after the end
of the Civil War. When Christmas came, after my third birth-
day, 3-1-76, and the funds were not available for such a cele-
bration as she deemed fitting, she packed her baggage and took
the old time stage coach for Nashville. Put up at the famous
Maxwell House -- 11 Good To The LAST Drop'' fame --, and,
around noon time began testing out the tone of the Steinway
grand on the mezzanine floor.. Quickly the dining rooms, the
billiar.d halls, the lobby and corridors were cleared of guests,
and they, with waiters and passers by on the street. choked
the entrance to the stairways ..
When it developed that she had to stop and dispose of
some pamphlets written by the Reverend John H. Nichols, set-
ting forth Biblical authority for the right of a Christian to pray
for a sinner and the right of the sinner to pray for himself, it
so happened that there were present in great nwnbers sinners
who were interested in knowing about their rights, and Christ-
ians who wanted to help them get informed. A cash transaction
for the entire large lot was hurriedly arranged, and the sinners
and Christians alike postponed their reading of "THE RIGHT OF
A SINNER TO PRAY" until the generous concert was ended in
time for Christmas shopping.
I can still remember --aside from the crates of oranges
and assorted fruits of every available variety -- the brass toed
little boots strong enough for kicking rocks; the tinselled,
tasselled trumpet more beautiful and musical than the bugle the
stage driver used to warn prospective customers of the immi-
nent approach of the stage coach.. Its monotone was so musical
that it never became monotonous to me. My advance in my
first private reading of the Bible was so satisfactory that I was
-36-
excused from the family morning session of the ten chapter read-
ing lesson; and to the envy of the older brothers I 1.vas allowed to
go out on the porch and blow m y bugle softly until the snow and
ice drove me in for a breathing and tha wing spell . E ver since,
have had a high regard for the delights of Christma s, a nd the
keen edge of my taste for the golden variety of ic e cream made
from frozen boiled custard has never been blunted. My e njoyment
of Christmas with children has probably kept me from growing
up.
CONNECTION
The relevance of the above to the subject a t issue i s that
I doubt that a woman of the character and intelligence of my
mother would be seen traveling first in the company of TK and
Hook.naka, and next in the company of Florence Huntley if they
were of the undesirable sort, or if there were discord between
them. I think further that my mother, who always has an open
approach to me, would warn me, rather than express pleasure ,
if she thought I was on the wrong track.
THE DEATH OF MY FATHER
My father died in 1914, just three weeks before the out-
break of the first World War. On the morning of the day he died
I was on a train out of Knoxville, Tennessee, headed for a sta-
tion in the mountains twenty miles from the nearest telephone,
there to strike out for a loss that was thirty-five miles further
from a phone. There was no phone connection on the train.
Suddenly I became aware that I was wanted over long distance
phone. Either my receptive apparatus was clogged or the send-
er was limited to one idea for I could get nothing but, "GET IN
TOUCH WITH LONG DISTANCE. 11 When I got back to Knoxville
and entered the nearest phone booth, the night shift had no re-
cord of incompleted incoming calls, but would get me any person
I wanted. "Give me my office in Nashville, Main 909. 11 What
number?lf 11 Give me the residence of my employer in Nashville,
Number so and so." "WHO?" "GIVE ME THE RESIDENCE OF
JOHN H. NICHOLS AT SPRINGHILL, TENNESSEE." The oper-
ator did not pay me the compliment of telling me to "MAKEUP-
YOUR MIND" but, evidently fearing that this fish was about to
get off the hook, she connected me up promptly. 11y sister a n -
-37-
swere d . Said tha t father die d that morn ing and that they had
been trying to r each me all day. The brief details were that af-
ter a n illn ess of three days the doctor asked if he could get in-
formation as to the nature and extent of the trouble. My father
closed his eyes, conferred briefly with the attendant physicians
of the spiritual plane and said, "They say that this is the end of
the line -- that they have come for me~ 11 With that he called in
the members of the family present, talked briefly 'With each one
of them individually, closed his eyes, and was gone.
With my brother Paul, who was teaching at Fairhope,
Alabama, it was different. When he receiv ed the wire telling
of father• s death, 'With his penchant for looking after people, he
p romptly called up mother on the spiritual plane, adv ised her of
the situation and asked that she look after father properly. Paul
said he was greeted with the merriest peal of laughter he had
ever heard. Mother adv ised him in effect that they had been
h aving themselves a ball of a reception party for two hours, that
the marines had landed, had the situation well in hand, that
everything was in the bag, and that h e need give himself no fur-
ther anxious concern about his father 1 s we lfare .
Some months after this Paul said that father, from the
spirit world, informed him that the son of a patron of Paul's
school who had been stung by a sting ray would die unless they
changetl the treatment. That the bandages should be removed,
the wound exposed to the open air and treated only with lemon
JUICe. The doctor said he would not be resp onsible if his treat-
m ent was interfered with in any way. Paul replied, 11 You are
not responsible whether or no. 11
The wavering parents had about decided to stay with the
doctor, since he would assume no responsibility other-wise --
Paul not having told them where he got his open air and lemon
juice ideas -- but the shock which came with the realization
that doctors never assumed responsibility except when the pa-
tient lived, turned the tide. The bandages came off, the lemon
juice was applied in copious quantities, and the patient promptly
began his recovery. and completed it. Early in November,
1916, Paul wrote me that father had just told him that we would
shortly receive distressing news from Chicago. In about ten
days we each received Dr. Hille 1 s 22 page letter concerning
-38-
the cessation of the work of the Great School. It is evident that
they keep up with the world situation closely.
THE GREAT BURDEN BEARER
The incidents recorded above have not come to me in co-
ordinated and correlated fashion, and I have not attempted to
present them as such. I have rather tried to weave them at ran-
dom into the warp and woof of the structure so that it will stand
or fall together. What I know of life after death and of spiritual
matters I know as definitely and as surely as I know of life be-
fore death and of physical matters, and it would be as difficult
to becloud my knowledge of and confidence in one as in the other.
Whether or not anyone believes or disbelieves any or all of it
could not in any way be of concern to me personally.
But so much of my time and energy has been spent in
fighting off and out from under the avalanches of creed and dog-
ma, presented as authoritative, yet which are to me repulsive
and insidious, that I have hoped I might in some way help others
to avoid going through the same mill. The glorified picture of
Christ, 11 The Great Burden Bearer. rr His broad shoulders lad-
en with the sins of the world, his bosom snowed under with the
myriads of sinners and saints whose garments have been wash-
ed white in the blood of the Lamb, ASLEEP in the arms of Jesus,
RESTING from their labors of drifting gently down the stream
of time--- simply doesn1t grip me. We have no counterpart
in the physical world. Here, we reap as we sow, and there are
no short cuts to education or individual attainment. This Vi'Car-
ious Atonement racket, this \Vorks of Supererogation plan, does
not work here, nor from all I can see does it work hereafter.
This "We Shall Know ALL Then" is strictly a myth, a pipe
dream as futile as a filtered cigarette that is cool and refresh-
ing.
Our work is here, else we would be somewhere else.
FUTILITY
I am well aware of the futility of attempting to convince
the professional skeptic, the doubter, the slave of suspicious
surmise, of anything based on fact; they do not comprehend.
-39-
It is equally difficult to get anything over to the one who looks
for the fault everywhere else but within himself. Pupils study
the faults, real or fancied, of the teacher. The teacher knows
that his subject is both valuable and interesting, but when he
sees he is failing to get it over he begins expatiating on the
pupil1 s lack of background about which he can do nothing, when
he could be filling up the pot holes in his background as a teach-
er. The purported auto mechanic exhausts his meager supply
of knowledge and then begins polluting the atmosphere with exe-
crations regarding the machine itself, the owner, and the com-
pany that would put out such a thing and call it ari automobile,
with never a thought that it is his own ignorance he is tangled
up with.
Dr. Hille says he spent six days--- SIX DAYS, mind
you(!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!)--- on the Technical Work under the
direction of a student who had been doing Technical Work,
and saw only blue, indigo, violet, and the resolving color.
He ne'{er saw red, orange, yellow, green or white. Later,
working alone about an hour a day for several months he had
a few glimpses of what appeared to be individuals. This meag-
er result "(due to difficulties within myself, I WAS TOLD)"
led hitp. to the conclusion tha·~ the Work was not based on Moral-
ity, but that it is a subjective, psychic process. Could it be
that if he had spent all this extra time on the problem of Moral-
ity he would have gotten better results with less effort?
LOOKING ELSEWHERE
If this tendency to look elsewhere than within for our
deficiencies is not born with us it certainly develops at an early
age. Show a little adept how to make a difficult golf shot, and
demonstrate the shot to him, and he confidently says, 11 I hit
it just like you said, and it didn't do right. 11 The following hunt-
ing experience illustrates the point hauntingly.
I had a large covey of quail scattered widely. The wind
was high, gusty and of sub-zero temperature. The quail were
getting up wild, flying fast and far, ducking for cover at any
turn, and almost every shot called for expert calculation, speed
and timing. A little country boy asked for and was granted the
privilege of helping work them out. Probably seven or eight
-40-
lYONS ON THE WAY
UNIVERSAL PEACE
years old he was possibly good enough to hit a rabbit ''a-set1 n11
if he could find a stwnp or a rail fence on which to rest his gun .
My gun was working perfectly and his just as imperfectly. On
his tenth shot he bange d away at a bird about 65 yards out, and
missed again. The wind was swirling to the left; the bird was
curving sharply to the right and diving for cover; an odds on
end against a kill for a perfectly placed shot. U his sights were
on the bird the shot would have been about twelve or fifteen feet
behind and four feet over the proper crossing. With pathetic
confusion he turned and asked, "Do you reckon it1 s the gnn, or
can it be the shells ? 0 Not wishing to confuse him further with
a discussion of wind resistance, wind drift, the increasing
curve of the trajectory of the shot as distance slows down their
speed, the correlation between the speed of the bird and of the
shot, and the integration of these divergent variables with the
compoWld curve of the flight of the bird to locate the exact spot
at which the bird and the shot would collide, I seriously and
carefully inspected his gnn and said, "No, son. the gnn is all
right . You seem to have a fine gun. It must be the shells. 11
U he took note of the make of the shells I knew it would take
him a long time to get over his prejudice against the brand,
but I didn't want him to throw a good gWl away.
BURDEN OF PROOF
Hector, Doctor of Laws, says that when a man makes
fantastic claims he lays on himself a heavy burden of proof.
It is only from proving a spiritual fact by personal experience
that one can correctly state it as a fact. The burden of proqf,
if that is what we seek. is on each of us, and it takes consider-
able furbishing up of our inner equipment before it will fnnction
in effortless fashion.
THE WRITTEN WORD
The value a book holds for us is the truth and beauty it
contains which we are able to recognize and to appropriate to
our use and development.
It is not given to many of us to have personal knowledge
of even a few authors of the books we read and enjoy. In numer-
ous cases we have no dependable information as to the identity
-41-
of t he autho r s. "AUTHORlTIES" disagree on whether what we
glibly , but ignorantly, refer to a s 11 Shakespeare11 was w r itten by
Anonymous, by Lord Bacon, by William Shakespeare, the p oet
and dramatist, or, as Mark T wain p uts it, " Not Really by
Shakespeare , him s elf, b ut by anothe r m an of the same name."
But, if it develops in the last analysis, that it was written by a
m ember of the politburo, we would still agree that the author
had knowledge of human nature from the Prince to the Pauper,
and from the Knave to the Demigod; and that the magic of his
word paintings is most enchanting.
11 To thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the
night the day, Thou can'st not then be false to any man", -
spoken by one fictitious character to another, as recorded by
an unidentified writer - rings as true as if it had the inspired
sanction of the prophet Jeremiah, or as if it were handed down
from heaven on tablets of stone.
THE BIBLE
It is my uninspired, but actual guess that of the count-
l ess millions who have claimed that they 11 Believe the Bible"
the n w;nber of these professed believers who hav e actually read
it would total up to only a minute fraction of one per cent of the
whole. And it is my more confident estimate that, of those who
h ave actually read it and know what it definitely states, an even
smaller per cent carne up with a concerted conception of its im-
port and its meaning.
It is appalling. to contemplate how many skulls have been
cle ft in t wain .- how many martyrs have been tortured to death -
b y rampant "CRUSADERS", who, not knowing WHAT they be-
lieve in, nor WHY, still would wrest the Holy Grail from the
hands of the 11 Dogs of Unbelievers. 11
It is dispiriting to contemplate the aeons of time that have
been wasted and that continue to be wasted by rabid believers,
and would be believers, over the meaning and the proper inter-
pretation of this great book. They first separate the sheep from
th e goats and then begin to wrangle over which is which.
Who are the saints, who the sinners; who are the saved,
who are the damned; who are the true believers, who was the
-42-
false prophets; who has the shortest cut to Glory; how best to
open the Pearly gates, if Pearly they be; who has the neatest
trick for cheating God out of a harp and a crowni what is the
easiest way to shift the annoying burden of personnel responsi-
bility t9 one nominated to be the burden bearer.
Is it safer to purchase plenary indulgence from the
great wealth of stores piled up by those who hope to be heard
for their much speaking, or is it just as well to simulate hwnil-
ity, make an insincere, abject profession of total dep~avity and
worthlessness, waive protection of the fifth amenchnent, claini
free grace and cast yourself on the mercy of the court, giving
the while the verbal pledge to give the judge credit for all the
honor and the power and the glory, and to spend your time and
energy throughout all eternity in shouting HIS praise?
Fortunately, for the unlettered hearers who are confused
by the multiplicity of these conflicting "GREAT PLANS OF SAL-
VATION" the Bible furnishes a way out. The Bible endures be-
cause it contains the Wisdom of The Ages expressed in terms
that are terse, easy to translate, difficult to misunderstand and
impossible to doubt by anyone who hungers and thirsts after
righteousness. These truths, mixed with and confused by myths,
traditions and allegories of supposedly equal merit, teach that
God is the Father of us all, that He is no respecter of persOns
and that we need only to respond to the promptings of our own
hearts rather than to puzzle over and be enslaved by what God
is supposed to have meant by what He is reported to have told
some one else at different times and places~
It is not even necessary to 11 Salvation11 for us ever to
have heard of the Bible. as billions before us never did, not
to mention the multitude of 11 essential11 , conflicting plans
evolved therefrom.
"As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he."
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. 11
"Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after
righteousness, for they shall be filled."
"Ask. and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find;
Knock, and it shall be opened unto you."
"Behold, I stand at the door, and knock; if any man hear
my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him,
-43-
and will sup with h im . and he with me. 11
11 Enter ye in at the strait gate . 11
"He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold,
but climbeth up some other way, the same is a
thief and a robber."
These statements of facts, and the instructions about
what gate we enter, and how, hold nothing for those parading
that type of humanity that pleads, grovels, whines, surrenders,
hides its talent in the earth, promises to shout praises -pro-
fessed followers of the meek and lowly Jesus; but, in reality,
followers of the main chance.
The following quotations offer just as little for that
brand of self-abnegating humility which boasts of our total de-
pravity and worthlessness, and offers in support of our plea
for entry into this temple of refuge only our sincere desire to
flee from the wrath to come, our belief in the Baptismal Cov-
enant, and in the Forgiveness of Sins.
"Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which
is in heaven is perfect."
"Be not deceived: God is not mocked: for whatsoever
a man soweth, that shall he also reap. 11
"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall
enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth
the will of my Father in heaven. 11
"Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them. 11
"As ye have received, so shall ye give."
"For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is
my brother, my sister and my mother. 11
" ... Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, thirsty, a
stranger, naked, sick, in prison, and came unto
thee? 11
"And the King shall answer and say unto them, verity
I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it to one
of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it
unto me. 11
The varying creeds and dogmas of the multiple denomin-
ations - each one the only true interpreter of the Word - are a
-44-
far cry from the life of Love and Service, as exemplified by the
life of the Master, Jesus.
FORGIVENESS
Teacher1 s pet may be forgiven for not learning how to
add in the arithmetic class but this does not qualify him for a
job at the bank teller's window. You may have a good golf score
if your Pro concedes the putt, once you get near the green, and
if he forgives the shots topped into the hazards, shanked into
the rough and sliced out of bounds, but this doesn't help you
qualify for the National Open.
HUMILITY
Humility - the absence of pride and self-congratulation.
When one contemplates the infinitesimal scratch man has made
on the surface of the knowledge, power and beauty of the univers e
surrounding him, as mentioned in some detail in the thirty-
eighth chapter of The Book of Job - commonly brought to mind
by the query, "Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Plei-
ades, or loose the bands of Orion ? 11 , he is brought face to face
with the cause for genuine, and lasting humility.
Of the Gates of Heaven, a wise man has aptly conjectured
- "No man will ever STRUT in. 11 It is doubtless equally true that
no one will horse-trade his way in; no one will sneak in under
the shadow of the one bearing the uncompensated burdens; and
no one, with simulated humility, will ever WORM his way unde r
the close fitting gates.
The lowly worm, in dignified-fashion, is slowly, but per-
sistently pushing the weightly barriers out of. his way; but when
he has mastered the course and presented himself for entry at
the Straight Gate, if he has not lost his self-respect, he will
give the knock that opens, rather than stand and shout promises,
or squirm on the threshold and seek blindly and futilely for an
opening .
CONNECTION
In case you have lost connection, it is that a book stands
on the substance of its contents rather than on the reputation of
-45-
its author.
It is easier to defame a w r iter's character than to unseat
the soundness of his logic.
John E. Richardson did, in masterful style, all he claim-
ed to do, namely to present in scientifically exact and well de-
fined terms, the substance of the Wisdom of The Ages. The
clarity of his w riting was undimmed and its s.ubstance unmarred
by the violence of the attack on his personal character. The
substance of this wisdom had permeated the literature of many
nations, centuries before the birth of Christ.
As late as the first century before Christ- 10·-19 B. C.-
The Roman Poet, Publius Vergilius Maronis, (Virgil), a mem-
ber of the Essenes, enshrouded the esoteric philosophy of that
ascetic order in his beautiful Epic Poem, the Aeneid. To those
interested in poetry, it recounts the wanderings of the Trojan
Prince~ Aeneas, son of Anchises and Venus, from Troy to Car-
thage, to Latinium, where his descendants founded Rome. To
those interested in the moral philosophy of the development of
the individual, it reads enough like the Bible to make the sub-
sequel')! biblical writers seem guilty of plagarism.
CRITICAL ANALYSIS
It has been my practice to scan much more critically
the writings and claims of accredited Sc ientists and of allegedly
inspired writers than I do the '.lltritings of noveli sts and those
claiming t o be historians. From a comparative study of differ-
e nt h istorical accounts of the same events I have noted that his-
torians, as much if not more than judge s of the supreme courts,
color their accounts (de cisions) according to their prejudices,
their intellectual and their sociological background. In some
historical events of which I have personal knowledge the actual
facts have been supplanted by pure fiction .
Judging The Philosophy of Individual Life as presented
in the Harmonic Se ries - entirely apart from the personality of
its authors - it is true as far as I have been able to demonstrate,
and it seems to me that the rest SHOULD be true, and probably
is. This I cannot say of the Bible of the Jews or of any other
-46-
nation; nor of any other science, philosophy or religion I have
yet encoWltered.
Richardson , John E., is the only author whose writings
have impelled in me the desire to investigate him personally;
and the personal acquaintance, while neither adding to nor de-
tracting from my appraisal of his writings, has been of great
pleasure and personal satisfaction to me. I have received
nothing but good from it and I would return nothing less. In-
stead of being wasted, the time I have spent in studying this
presentation of the Philosophy of Individual Life has been the
most valuable, enjoyable and inspiring of any intellectual en-
deavor I have ever undertaken.
'~M~
San Diego, California
July, 1959
MORALITY: "The established harmonic relation which man
as an Individual Intelligence sustains to the Go n s t r u c t i v e
P r i n c i p 1 e of N a t u r e . "
- John E. Richardson
-47-
HARMONIC SERIES ..
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION, F1orenee Huntley • • . • $4.00
The Struggle for Happiness, and Individual Compltti<>n
Through Polarity or Af{initJJ
THE GREAT PsYCHOLOGICAL CB.U!ll
The Destructive Principle of
Nature in Individual Life.
$4.00
THE GREAT WORK • • • •
The Constructive Principle of
Nature in Individual Life.
• $4.00
J.E.
THE GREAT KNowN • •
Richardson
TK
What Science Knows of
the Spiritual World.
THE GREAT llfESSAGE • •
The Li't<eal Key of The Great
School of the Masters.
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
by J. E. Richardson •
SELF-UN>'OLD14ENT, Vol. I, 2, J. E. Ric:ha.rdson, TK • ea.
WHO ANSWERS PRAYERT PO, RA, TK
To You
RELIGIOUS SANITY
!peryear •
single copy
by A. R. Jackson
THE ROAD TO HARMONlO'OS Livmc, by "Student of Life" •
How TO RELAx, TK •
PINE NEEDLES
by Joseph A. Sadony
PIONEER PRESS
25,355 Spanish Ranch Road
Los GATOS, CALIFoRNIA
2 for
Fot Information about Our 61fT OF INSTR.UCTlON A... Wrii• to:
THE GREAT SCHOOL OF NATURAL SCIENCE
·-Add.o.)
$4.00
.$4.00
$2.50
$3.00
$2.00
$3.00
.50
,2.50
$1.00
.25
1.75
The "Method'' of the Great School has been wrought
out in conformity with the Constructive Principle and
Process of Nature in Individual Life. The primary and
fundamental purpose of this method is to unfold and
develop the faculties, capacities and powers of the Intelli-
gent Soul to their highest construction possibilities and
subject alone to the independent action and operation of
its own VVill.
-THE GREAT WORK
All things, humanly speaking, are possible to the lover.
The courage, the endurance, the patience and the suffer-
ing of faithful love arc re-read and re-told from generation
to generation. The bare facts of history irrespective of
science constitute unanswerable proof that man and
woman alone have wrought out the true Love Story of
the World. These are the unanswerable proofs that love
is born of the Soul.
-HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Wherever the spirit of intellectual Liberty, Religious
Freedom, and the practice of Fraternity and Equality
have gone, the genius and the spirit of the Great School
have pointed the way.
-THE GREAT WORK
There is a Principle in Nature which impels every
entity to seek vibratory correspondence with another like
entity of opposite polarity.
-HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
All the world loves a lover. It loves him for his radi-
ance. He represents to the Soul, ethically speaking, what
physical perfection and beauty do to the eye. The world
loves a lover because for the moment he is the visible,
living ideal of every other Soul. He is our own desire
tangibly realized in the flesh.
- HARMO~ICS OF EVOLUTIO~
Receiving and giving. This is, indeed, the fundamental
business of individual life. lt is the basic function and
process of the Soul. In its primary aspect this represents
the sum total of life's activities.
-THE GREAT WORK
The worlc of the initiate in the Great School is that of
a "Builder." From the beginning to the end of his labors
he is building the 1'Temple of Human Character." This
he docs upon the solid rock of enduring Truth and "when
the Temple is completed" it stands as a column of unfad~
ing "Light" to illumine the pathway of life to all who
travel that way.
-THE GREAT WORK
Proving that death docs not end all has been the most
valuable single achievement of man in the physical body.
-HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
From the view-point of the Great School, science and
philosophy and religion arc in no sense conflicting schools.
They do not antagonize each other in their essential
nature. On the contrary, they are, in truth, concomitant
factors in the same great problem of individual life and
unfoldment. And Truth is the vital element which relates
them all.
-THE GREAT WORK
Those who achieve individual success are those who
employ their own intelligence and their own reason, those
who exercise their own independent powers and rely upon
their own independent judgments in all the affairs of life.
-THE GREAT PSYCHOLOGICAL CRIME
The School of Natural Science holds that wherever a
''personal experience" is possible nothing short of this will
be acCepted by it as a "scientific demonstration." All data
which cannot be reduced in their final analysis to a basis
of "personal experience" are held by it as qualified, and
subject to further and more complete verification.
-HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Among the dearest possessions of the Soul is the sov~
ereign, indepe.ndent power to command in your own
right the confidence, the approval, the trust, the respect,
the appreciation and the personal aHection of your fellow
men and women.
-THE GREAT PSYCHOLIGICAL CRIME
Life after the event we call physical death is a fact
scientifically demonstrable.
-HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
, .
