{"name":"Secrets Of The Invisible World Disclosd","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1729__moreton___secrets_of_the_invisible_world_disclosd.pdf","mytitle":"Secrets Of The Invisible World Disclosd","mylang":"de"}
Secrets of tne lu'uifihle World Difclos'd i
OR, AN
UNIVERSAL HISTORY
APPARITION S
SACRED and PROPHANE,
Under all Denominations;
WHETHER,
Angelical^ Diabolical, or Human-Souls departed.
SHEWING * •
i. Their varioua Returns to this World; with fure Rules toknow>
by their Manner of Appearing, if they are Good or Evil ones.
II. The Differences of the Apparitions of Antient and Modern
Times ; and an Enquiry into the Scriptural Doftrine of Spirits.
III. The many Species of Apparitions^ their real Exifience, and
Operations by Divine Appointment.
IV. The Nature of feeing Ghofts beforCi and after. Death; and
how we fhould behave towards them.
V. The EfFefts of Eancy, Vapours^ Dreams^ Hyppo, and of real^'
or imaginary Appearances.
VI. A CoUeftion of the moft Authentic Relations of Apparitions,
particularly that furprizing One attefted by the learned Dr. Scott.
ByANDREwMoRETONj Efq 5 Adorn'd with Cuts.
SviKiTS i/i whatfoever Shape they chufe^
Dilated or Condem^d^ Bright or Objcurey
Can execute their Airy-Purpofes^
And Works of Love or Enmity fulfil MiLTOK.
LONDON:
Printed for J. Clarke at the Royal Exchange, A. Mill ar without
Tmpk'Bar^ and J. QRggu at Charing Crofs, 1719. Price 5f*
'[/'/^o/z/ij/iu^^t^ ^J.^uc/l^rXc^i/^.
THE
PREFACE.
FERT Jhoft Preface may fuf-
fice to a Work of this Nature,
Spedtrc and Apparition make
a great Noife in the World ,• and
have (at leafi formerly) had a great In-^
fluence among us.
Between our Ancejiors laying too much
ftrefs upon them^ and the prefent Age
endeavouring wholly to explode and de^
fptfe them^ the World feems hardly ever
to have come at a right Underjianding a--
bout them.
Some defpife them in fuch an extraor^
dtnary manner^ that they pretend to wijh
for nothing more than to he convinced by
Demonjiration j as if nothing but feeing
the
PREFACE.
the Devil couldfathfie them there was
fuch a Perfon ; and nothmg is more woh"
derful to me^ in the whole Syftem of Spi-
rits, than that Satan does not think fit to
jujiify the Reality of his Beings by ap-
pearing to fuch infome of his worji Fi^
gures^ and tell them in full Grimace who
he isy when I douht not but they would
be as full of the Pannick as other People.
j^gamy fome People are fo horribly
fritted at the very mention of an Appa-
ritton^ that they cannot go two Steps in
the dark, or in the dusk of the Evenings
without looking behind them ,• and if they
fee but a Bat fly^ they think of the Devil,
becaufe of its Wmgs 5 and as for a Screech
Owly at its firft appearance^ they make no
fcruple of running into the Houfe in a
Frighty and affirming they have feen the
Devil.
How to bring the World to a right
Temper between thefe Ex^trearns is a Dif-
ficulty we cannot anfwer for ,• but if fet-
ting things in a true light^ between Imagi^
nation and folid Foundation^ will ajfifl
towards it^ we hope this Work may have
fome Succefs^
Not
PREFACE.
Not that I expeB to fortify my Rea^
dersy and efiabUJh their Minds againji
the Fears of what they may fee^ fo
that they Jhall make an Apparition of
the Devil familiar to them^ there is fuch
a kind of Averfton in the Minds of
Men to the Angel of Light, that no
body cares to fee him in Imagination^
much lefs to be forced to fee him whe^
ther they will or no.
But now on the other handy if it
is true that the Devil very rarely
does appear , that almoft all real Ap^
paritions are of friendly and ajjifting
AngelsJ
and come of a k^tnd and bene^
ficent Errand to us^ and that therefore
we need not be fo terrified at them as
we are j // it be .true that when any
evil Spirit does appear^ it is limited by
a Superior Power^ and can do us no
harm without fpecial Licence 5 methinks
this Jhould take off the Terror from our
Mtndsy and caufe us to arm our Souls
with Refolution enough to meet the Devil^
whatever Shape he thinks fit to ap-
pear in : For Imufi tell you^ Good People,
as
PREFACE.
as was /aid m another Cafe^ he that ijr
not able to fee the Devil m whatever
Shape he ispleas'dto appear iritis not really
qualified to live in this Worlds no not in
the quality of a common Inhabitant.
But the Mifiake lies chiefly here^ that
we either will allow no Apparition at ally
or will have every Apparition be the
Devil j as if none of the Inhabitants of
the World above^ were able to fhow
themf
elves here^ or had any Bufinefs a^
mong uSy but the Devil, who I am ofthe
Opinion has really lefs Bufinefs here than
any ofthem all-^
nay^ we have fome reafon
to believe he has indeed no Bufinefs here
at all^ hut that of a roaring Lyon, ^c.
and therefore if you meet him^ and had
Courage for it^ the properefi ^efiion you
could ask him would be^noty In the Name
of God, what art thou? but^ In the
Name of God, what Bufinefs haft thou
here ? Bid him be gone to his Deny and
tell him you will pray to God to chain
him up elfe : I dare fay he would turn
Tayl at fuch an Attack ferioufly made •
and it wouldbe the heft way in the World
to get rid of him. That
PREFACE.
That we may then he perfeBly eafy
about this undeterm'irfd thing caWd Ap-
parition^ I have endeavour d here to bring
the thing into a narrow Compafsy and to
fee it in a true lights I have firfl given
you feveral Specimens of real Appariti-
ons well attefledy and the truth of them
fo affirm'dy that they m.ay be depended
upon : If in any of them I am not fo well
ajfur'd of the FaB^ tho\ they may be as
certain^ yet I have frankly told you foy
and adhered to the Moral only : But all
together may convince the Reader of the
Reafon and Reality of the thing it felf
On the other hand^ J have given you
Specimens of thofe Amufements and De-
luftons which have been put upon the World
for Apparitions ^ and you may fee the dif-*
ference is fo Notorious^ {whether the Cheat
be Political or Whimftcal^ Magical or /-
maginary^ that no Man can be eafily de-
ceiv'dy that will but make ufe of the Eyes
of his Underfianding^ as well as of thofe
in his Head.
Ify after ally you will give up your Rea-
fon to your FancyJ
which at befi is but
a % a
PREFACE.
a Dijlempery and that you will call every
Shadow an Appar'tthn^ and every ^-
parition a Devil, you mufi be content to
be the SubjcB of confiant Delufion ,•
for
he that will imagine he fees the Devil
always about htm^ whether Satan is really
near him or no^ fhall never want walk^
ing Shadows to amufe him^ Hill he really
calls up the Devil he fears^ and befpeaks
the Mif
chief he was before in Danger of.
THE
THE
CONTENTS
NTRODucTioN. Of Apparltions in General
:
the Certainty and Nature of them. Page i
Chap. I. Of Apparitions in particular^ the Reality
of them^ their Antiquity^ and the Difference heti^een
the Apparitions of former ^imes^ and thofe which
we may call Modern 5 with fomething of the Reafon
and Occajion of that Difference. p, 8
Chap. II. Of the Appearance of Angels immediately
in Mijfion as from Heaven '^ and why we are to
fuppofe thofe kinds of Apparitions are at an End,
p. 18
Chap. III. Of the Appearance of the Devil in Humane
Shape. p. 2
1
Chap. IV. Of the Apparition of Spirits Unemhodiedy
and which never were Embodied -^ not fuch as are
vulgarly caWd Ghofts^ that is to fay^ departed Souls
returning again and appearing viftbly on Earthy but
Spirits of a fuperior and angelick Nature^.% with an
Opinion of anqther Species. P- ^f
Chap,
C O N T E NTS.
Chap. V. Of the Jppearance of Departed Unemho-
died Soul, p. 44
Chap. VL Of the Manner How the Spirits of every
Kind which can or do appear among us manage
their Appearance.^ and How they proceed, p. fS
Chap. VII. Of the many firange Inconveniences and
ill Confequences which would attend us in this IVorld^
if the Souls of Men and Women^ unembodyed and
departed^ were at Liberty to vifit the Earthy from
whence they had been difmifs^d^ and to concern them-'
felves about Human Affairs^ either fuch as had been
their own^ or that were belonging to other People.
Chap. VIII. fhe Reality of Apparition farther af-
ferted'y and what Spirits they are that do really ap^
pear, P* ^^J
Chap. IX. More Relations of particular Fa6is^ pro*
ving the Reality of Apparitions 5 with fome jufl Ob-
fervations on the Difference between the good and
evil Spirits^ from the Errand or Bujinefs they come
about, p. 1 65
Chap. X. Of the different Nature of Apparitions y
how we fhould Behave to them 5 when to be afraid
of or concerned about them^ and when not. p. ipi
Chap. XI. 0/ Apparitions in Dream^ and how far
they are or are not real Apparitions. p. 20
1
Chap. XII. Of Apparitions being faid to happen juji
at the time when the Perfon fo happening to appear
is faid to be departing-, the Fiction of it confuted.
p. 265
Chap
CONTENTS.
Chap. XIIL Of the Confequence of this Do6irine 5
andfeeing that Apparitions are real^ and may be esc-^
pe5ied upon many Occafions^ and that we are fare
they are not the Souls of our departed Friends j how
are we to a6i^ and how to behave to them^ when
they come among us^ and when they pretend to be
fuch and fuch^ and fpeak in the firft Perfon of thofe
departed Friends^ as if they were really themfelves?
Chap. XIV". Of Sham Apparitions^ and Apparitions
which have been the Effe^ of Fraud. p. j^^
Chap. XV. Of Fmaginary Apparitions^ the Appari-
tions of Fancy^ Vapours^ waking Dreams^ delirious
Headsy and the Hyppo, P* 3^4
THE
THE
Hiftory and Reality
O F
APPARITIONS.
INTRO DUCTION.
Of Apparitions in General : the Certainty
and Nature of them.
i F all the Arcana of the invidble WorlJ^
I know no One Thing about which,
more has b6en faid, and lefs underftood,
than this of Apparition: It is divided fo
much between the Appearance of good
and the Apparition of bad Spirits, that our Thoughts
are flrangely confus'd about it.
First, We make a great deal of Difficulty to re-
folve whether there are any fuch things as Appa-
ritions or no J and fome People are for reducing
them all into Fancy, Whimfic, and the Vapnurs>
and fo fhutting the Door againfl Apparitions in ge-
B neral.
The Hifiory and Reality
neral, they refolve to receive no Vifits from the
invifible World, nor to have any Acquaintance
with its Inhabitants 'till they come there 5 Not
fatisfy'd with that, they refolve for us all, as well as
for themfelves, and will have it, that becaufe they
have no Notion of it themfelves, therefore there
is really no fuch thing, and this they have advanc'd
with great Aflurance, as well in Print as in other
Difcourfes. I name no body.
I HAVE, I believe, as true a Notion of the Power
of Imagination as I ought to have, and you fhall
hear farther from me upon that Head j I believe we
form as many Apparitions in our Fancies, as we fee
really with our Eyes, and a great many more 5 nay,
our Imaginations fometimes are very diligent to
embark the Eyes (and the Ears too) in the Delufion,
and perfuade us to believe we fee Spedlres and Ap-
pearances, and hear Noifes and Voices, when in-
deed, neither the Devil or any other Spirit, good
or bad, has troubled themfelves about us.
But it does not follow from thence that there-
fore there are no fuch Things in Nature > that there
IS no Intercourfe or Communication between
the World of Spirits, and the World we live in>
that the Inhabitants of the invifible Spaces, he thofe
where youpleafe^ have no Converfe with us, and that
they never take the Liberty to flop down upon this
Globe, or to vific their Friends here 5 and in ihort,
that they have nothing to do with or fay to us, or
we with or to them. The Enquiry is not, as I take
it, whether they do really come hither or no, but
who they are that do come ?
Spirit is certainly fomething that we do not
fully underftand, in our prefenc confined Circum-
flancesjand as we do not fully underfland the thing,
fo neither can we diflinguifh of its Operations. As
we at prefent conceive of ir, 'tis an unreflrain'd,
unlimited Beings except by fuch Laws of the invi-
fible
ef APPARITIONS. 3
iible State, which at prefent we know little of; its
way of converfing we know nothing of, other than
this, that we believe^ and indeed (be Reafon for itj
that it can a6l in an invifibleand imperceptible mari-
ner j it moves without being prefcrib'd or limited
by Space, it can conie and not be feen, go and not
be perceiv'd j 'tis riot to be fhut in by Doors, or
fhut out by Bolts and Bars; in a Word, it is un-
confined by all thofe Methods which we confine
our Anions by, or by which we underfland our*"
felves to be limited and prefcrib'd.
Yet notwithftanding all this, it converfes here^
is with us, and among us 5 correfponds, tho' un-
embodied, with our Spirits which are embodied j
and this converfing is by not only an invifible, buc
to us an inconceivable wayj it is neither tied down
to Speech or to Vifion, but moving in a fuperior
Orb, conveys its Meaning to our Underftandings,
its Meafures to our Conceptions 5 deals with the
Imagination, and works it up to receive fuch Im-
preffions as ferve for its purpofe; and yet at the
fame time we are perfeftly paflive, and have no A^
gency in, or Knowledge of the Matter.
B Y this filent Converfe, all the kind Notices of
approaching Evil or Good are conveyed to us^
"ivhich are fometim^S fo evident, and come with
fuch an irrefiilible Force upon the Mind, that we
muft be more than flupid if we do not perceive
them ; and if we are not extremely wanting td
our felves, we may take fuch due Warning by
them, as to avoid the Evils which we had No-
tice of in that manner, and to embrace the Good
that is offer'd to us : Nor are there many People
alive who can deny but they have had fuch
Notices^ by which, if they had given due Atten-
tion to them, they had been afiifted to fave them-
felves from the Mifchiefs which followed; or had,
oil the other hand| taken hold of fuch and fuch
B 2, -Ad-
4 The Hijlory and Reality
Advantages as had been ofFer'd for their Good: for
it is certainly one of the grand and mofl: impor-
tant Difficulties of human Life, to know whether
fuch or fuch things, which prefent in our ordinary
or extraordinary Circumftances, are for our good,
as they feem to be, and as may be pretended, or not,
and whether it is proper for us to accept them or
no 5 and many unhappily ftand in the Way of their
own Profperity, for want of knowing what to ac-
cept of, and what to refufe.
Now by what Agency muft it be that we have
Dire61:ions5 for good or foreboding Thoughts of Mif-
chiefs which attend us, and which it is otherwife
impoffible we fhould know any thing of 5 if fome
intelligent Being, who can fee into Futurity, had
not convey'd the Apprehenfions into the Mind,
and had not caufed the Emotion which alarms
the Soul?
And how fhould that intelligent Being (what-
ever it is) convey thefe Forebodings and fudden
IVIifgivings, as we rightly call them, mto the Mind,
if there was not a certain Correfpondence between
them, a way of talking perfe6tly unintelligible to
us, uncommon, and without the Help of Sounds or
any other perceptible Way ?
For Spirits without the Help of Voice con'verfe,
A S thus there is a Converfe of Spirits, an Intel-
ligence, or call it what you pleafe, between our
Spirits embodied and cafed up in Flefh, and the
Spirits unembodied 3 who inhabit the unknown
Mazes of the invifible World, thofe Coafts which
our Geography cannot defcribej who, between Some-
*where and No-where dwell, none of us know where^
and yet we are fure muft have Locality, and for
ought we know, are very near us 3 why fhould ic
be thought fo ftrange a thing, that thofe Spirits
Ihould
of APPARITIONS.
iliould be able to take upon them an Out-fide or
Cafe? why fliould they not be able, on Occafion, or
when they think fir, to drefs themfelves up as we
do a U Mafquerade^ in a Habit difguis'd like Flefii
and Blood, to deceive human Sight, fo as to make
themfelves vifible to us? As they are free Spirits,
why may they not be like what my Lord Rochefier
expreffes in another Cafe,
^ Spirit free to chufe for their own Share
What Cafe of Flep and Blood they pleafe to wear ?
Roch. Sat. againfh Man,
I do not by this affirm that it is fo, and that a
Spirit may thus aflume a real Cafe of Flefli and
Bloody for I refolve to affirm nothing that will not
bear a Proof, and to fuggeft nothing without Pro-
bability, in all this Work.
But it is enough to the prefent purpofe if theie
invifible Inhabitants can aflTume an Appearance, a
Form fufficient to make them perceptible to us 5
at the fame time not being at all veiled with
any Subftance, much lefs of the Species which they
reprefent.
J F they can aflume a vifible Form, as I fee no
Reafon to fay they cannot, there is no room then to
doubt of the Reality of their appearing 5 becaufe
what may he we cannot but believe fometimes has.
leen^ as what has been^ we are fure may be,
T o fay that the unembodied Spirits can have no-
thing to do with us, and that we have Reafon to
believe they are not at all acquainted with human
Affairs, is to fay what no Man can be afllired of,
and therefore is begging the Queftion in the grof-
fefl manner.
I SHALL therefore fpend but very little time to
prove or to argue for the Reality of Apparition.
Let Mr. Qlanvilk and his Antagonifts, the Hobbifls
B 5 aad
4 The Hijlory and Reality
and Sadduces of thofe Times, be your Dlfputants
upon that Subje6t> nor fhall I trouble you with
much Antiquity or Hiftory : a little that is moft
unexceptionable may be neceflary. If there is an
invifibic World, and if Spirits refiding or inhabit-^
ing are allowed to be there, or placed there by
the fupreme governing Power of the Univerfej, it
will be hard to prove, that 'tis impoffible they
fhould come hither, or that they (hould not have
Liberty to fhow themfelves here, and converfe in
this Globe, as well as in all the other Globes or
Worlds, which, for ought we know, are to be
found in that immenfe Space > Reafon does not
exclude them. Nature yields to the Poflibiltty,
and Experience with a Cloud of Witnefles in all
Ages confirm the Reality of the affirmative.
The Queflion therefore before me is not fo
much whether there are any fuch things as Appari-
tions of Spirits 5 but WHO, and WHAT, and
from WHENCE they are 5 what Bufinefs they
come about, who fends them or dire6i:s them, and
how and in what manner we ought to think and
aft, and behave about them, and to them j and this
is the Subftance of this Undertaking.
The Angels are faid to be mimftring Spirits^ and
we know they have been made ufe of (as fuch) on
many Occafions, by the fuperior Appointment of
him that created them ; why then it may not be
thought fit by the fame Power, to make or fubili-
tute a Miniftration of thefe unembodied Spirits to
the Service of the embodied Souls of Men, which
arc alfo God's Creatures, we cannot tell.
Upon what foot, and to what end, either on
their Side or on ours, and from what Appointment,
is very difficult to afcertain 5 and yet fomc probable
Guefles might be made at ittoo, if it was the proper
Work before me 5 but I am rather adjufting the
Faft, and afcertaining the Reality of Apparitions in
general^
of APPARITIONS. f,
general, than inquiring into the Reafons of them 5
cither the Reafons in Nature, or in Providence,
which are perhaps farther out of our Reach than
fome People imagine.
It is as difficult too to determine whether the
Spirits that appear are good or evil, or bothj the
only Conclufion upon that Point is to be made from
the Errand they come about y and it is a very juft
Conclufion, I think 5 for if a Spirit or Apparition
comes to or haunts us only to terrify and affright,
to fill the Mind with Horror, and the Houfe
with Diforder, we cannot reafonably fuppofe that
to be a good Spirit j and on the other hand, if it
comes to dircd to any Good, or to forewarn and
preferve from any approaching Evil, it cannot then
be reafonable to fuppofe 'tis an evil Spirit.
The Story of an Apparition diflurbing a young
Gentleman, at or near Camhridge^ is remarkable to
this Purpofe: He fet up, it feems, for a kind of
profefs'd Atheifm; but hearing a Voice, fuppofed
it was the Devil fpoke to him, and yet owned that
the Voice afTured him there was a God^ and bid him
repent. It was a moft incongruous Suggeftion that
the Devil fhould come Voluntier to an Atheift, and
bid him repent 5 or, that the Devil lliould with a
like Freedom affert the Being of a GOD.
I F then it was a real Apparition of, or a Voice
from an invifible Spirit 5 (Ifay//, becaufe it might be
a Phantom of his own Imagination) it mufl be from a
good Spirit, or from an evil Spirit over-rul'd by a
fuperior and beneficent Power j and if that were to
be fuppofed, then it would juflify our taking far-
ther Notice of thofe things called Voices and
Apparitions, than I fhall venture to advife.
Th?: Poffibility however of Apparitions, and the
Certainty of a World of Spirits, as I can by no
means doubt, fo I fhall take up none of your
time tQ ^nfwer the Objections and Cavils of other
E 4 • People
8 The Hifiory and Reality
People about it 5 becaufe I think the Evidence will
amount to a Demonftration of the Fa6tsj and De-
monltration puts an end to Argument.
CHAP. I.
Of Apparitions in particular^ the Reality
of them^ their Antiquity^ and the T^iffe-^
rence between the Apparitions of former
Timesy andthofe which we may call Modern ;
wi^th fomething of the Reafon and Occafion
of that T>ijference,
OTHING can be a ftronger Teflimony of
the Reality of Apparitions m General, than
to defcend to the particular Appearances which we
are afllir'd have been fcen and conversed with from
the fuperior World. And firft I begin with fuch
as have been evidently from Heaven it felf, and by the
foveraign Appointment of Providence upon extraor-
dinary Occaiions. And tho' Ifhall trouble my Rea-
ders with as little as poffible out of Scripture, ef-
pecially at the Beginning of my Work, becaufe I
am unwilling they ihould throw it by, before they
read it out, which there would be fome Danger of,
if I fhould begin too grave
Yet, as I cannot go back to Originals, or be-
gin at the Beginning, without a little Hiftory
put of thofe ancient Times, you mufl bear with
my jull naming the Sacred Hillorians. I'll be as
fliort as 1 can.
Nothing is more certain, if the Scripture is ac
all to be believed among us, than that God him-
felf was pleafed, in the Infancy of Things, to ap-
pear Vifiblyj and in Form, to feveral Perfons, and
on
of APPARITIO NS.
on feveral Occafions, upon Earth j afluming or
taking up the Shape of his Creature Man, when
he thought fit to converfe with him, that he niighc
not be a Terror to him.
Thus ^dam was frequently vifited in Eden^
and we have no room to doubt but it was in a
vifible Form, becaufe Jdam both heard him fpeak,
and as the Text fays, "They heard the Voice of the
Lord God walking in the Garden in the Cool of the
Day. Gen. iii. 8.
B Y all the Hiilory of the Antediluvean World,
we have reafon to believe, that as God did fre-
quently fpeak to Men, fo he as frequently appeared
to them •, for we find they converfed with God Face
to Face. Cain^ tho' wicked, talk'd with God, and
God with him, when he was charg'd with the Mur-
ther of his Brother Abels and the Text is exprefs.
Gen. iv. 1(5. that after it, Cain went out from the
Prefence of the Lord. So that God not only fpoke
to him by a voice, but was Vifible and Prefent to
him.
And as I muft carry the Devil along with me,
hand in hand, in every Period of Time, fo even in
Paradife the Devil aflum'd a Shape. For we nioil
allow Satan to be a Spirit, and indeed, we have
good reafon to fay he is a Spirit.^ free to Chuse
what Cafe of Flefh and Blood he pleafes to put on^
or at leaii: feemingly to put on.
Thus he without doubt fpoke in the Mouth of.
the Serpent in the Garden, or elfe took upon him-
felf that Shape, tho* the former is the mod proba-
ble 5 becaufe the Serpent was curil for being but
the Inftrument, however paffive he might be.
Mr. MILtON makes no doubt of the Devil's
afluming a Shape of any kind, Beafi as well as Ma-n^
when he brings him in v/hifpering to Eve in her
Sleep, and placing himfelf clofc at her Ear, in the
Shape of a Toad, which he cxprefTes in his Sub-
lime
lO The Hijlory and Reality
lime Poem, and with that inimitable Manner, pe-
culiar to himfelf.
First he brings Satan leaping over the Mound
or Fence, which God had placed round the Gar-
den, as a Wolf leaps over the Hurdles into a
Sheep-fold 5 and being gotten into Paradife, he
places himfelf upon the Tree of Life, in the Shape
of a Raven or Cormorant. There's the Devil's firft
Apparition.
Thence he views the whole Garden, and all
the Creatures in it, and at laft he fpies Jdam and
Eve^ to his great Surprife. But after a while fpent
in admiring their Form, their Beauty, Felicity and
Innocence, as he refolv'd to ruin them, fo he comes
down from the Tree to be nearer them^ and
mixing among the Cattle, where he takes upon
him now one Shape, then another, as it beft
fuited him, to be near Jdam and Eve, and yet to
be unperceived by them 5 this the Poet defcribes^
thus 5
T'ben from his hfty Stand on that high Tree^
Down he alights among the /portful Herd
Of thefe four-footed Kinds -y himfelf now one.
Now other, as their Shape heft ferv'd his End
Nearer to view his Prey^ and unefpfd
I'o mark what of their State he more might learn.
« *
^bout them roundj
A Lion now he ftalks with fiery Glare -^
Then as a Tiger,
Milr. Parad. lib. IV. ver. 3pf
Again, when he makes the Angels find Satan, as I
have obferved, wbifpering evil Thoughts to Eve in.
a Dream, and in her Sleep, he fays,
Him
p^
of APPARITIONS. II
Him there they founds
Squat like a Toad, dofe at the Ear of Evc;
jljfaying^ hy his devilijh Art^ to reach
7'he Organs of her I^ancy^ and *with them forge
Illujions^ as he Uft^ Phantafmsy and Dreams.
lb. ver.ypp.
'T I s evident then, that the Devil can afTume a
Shape, whether of Man or Beaft, and appear as
fuch, in order to difguife himfelf from our Sight.
We fhall have a farther Account of him prefently,
but in the mean time let us fee higher, and go into
the Afcer-Ages.
ABRAHAM\% the firft Example, after Noah^ ofan
open Converfe with his Maker 5 and the Scripture
diftinguifhes the very manner 5 fometimes 'tis faid^
that the Lord had faid to Ahram^ Gen. xii. r. and
again, the Lord faid to Abram^ Gen. xiii. 14. again
*the iVord of the Lord came to Ahram^ and the iVord
of the Lord came to Ahram in a Fifton, Gen. xv. i .
4,
to the 7th.
But there are other exprefs Places in which it
is faid in plain Words, God appeared to him. Gen.
xii. 7. ^he Lordappear d unto Ahram : and Gen. xvii. i
The Lord appeared to Ahram^ and faid unto him : and
ver. 21. And he left off talking with him^ and God
went up from Abraham, 'Tis undeniable that God
appeared, and was with him, and left off talking
with him, and went from him: all Marks of a via-
ble Apparition.
Again, Chap, xviii. here it is ftill more ex-*
plicit, and God not only appeared, but appeared
in a Human Shape. Ver. i . And the Lord appeared
to him in the Plains of Mamre^ as he fat in the
Door of his Tent. Fird 'tis faid, he lift up his Eyes
and looked, and behold, three Men Hood by him.
So vilible were they, that he entertains them,
2 invites
J 2 The liiftory and Reality
invites them to Dinner, and prepares a fat Calf to
be drefs'd, and Cakes, and Butter, and Milk. In
ihort, he made a Feaftj fo much was he, as it may
be faid, deluded 5 fo real was the Appearance 5 nay,
\^^hen he fat it all before them, 'tis faid thy did
EAT.
Now, ver. 13. 'tis faid expreflyone of thefe was
the L o R D > nay, in the Original it is
J e h o va h j
that was when he charged Sarah with laughing,
and fhe deny'd it.
iV. B, Sarah was the firft of Human Kind,
that ever told God a Lye to his Face.
But fhe was frighted, that's certain > the
Text fays fo.
I N the 17th Verfe, when God tells Abraham what
he had refolv'd to do to Sodom-, 'tis plain, he fpcaks
in the firft Perfon as God 5 And the Lord faid^ jhall I
hide from Abraham the thing that I do ? Hereupon
j^braham rakes upon him to plead with God in ht-
h2i\i o? Sodom-, and in this he fpeaks as to God him-
felf, ver. ^o. O let not the Lord be angry^ and I will
fpeak : and before that, ver. 27. Behold now 1 have
taken upon me to fpeak unto the Lor d, which am
hit Duft and Afloes.
Thus I think 'tis evident, that God himfelf
did appear in Humane Shape to Abraham^ and that
more than once. The next Chapta* is as plain, that
he did the fame to Lotj or if it fhould be obje-
6ted that it is not fo clear that it was God himfelf,
it was two Angels 5 tho' Interpreters do generally
agree, that it was Chrift himfelf, who is called
an Angel, the Angel of the Covenant. But if that
were doubtful, then it will ftill be allow'd that ic
was an Apparition of Angels in Human Shape,
which will Itand good in my next Article.
But as I am upon the Highelt and Supreme
Inllances fi^rftj 1 mull finilTi it by two particular
QaoU-'
of APPARITIONS. 13
Quotuions, which cannot be difputed. (i.) One is
of Jacobs Gen. xxxii. 24. Inhere wreftled a man with
him: and ver. 28. the Man is laid to be God him-
felf, as a Prince haft thou Power with God, and haft
prevailed : and ver. :^o. after he had blefled him,
Jacob caird the Place Peniel^ that is the Face of
God, For, fays he, / have feen God Face to Face,
Again Jacob fays. Gen. xlviii. 7,, God Almighty ap-
peared to me at Lii% in the Land of Canaan^ and blef-*
fed me.
(2.) But there is yet a ftronger Teltimony than
all this, for it is fpoken from the Mouth of God
himfelf upon a very particular Occafion,, which was
to honour Mofes^ and eftablifh him in the Reve-
rence and Regard of the People, when the Se^
venty Men or Elders were appointed to take Pare
of his Work off his Hands, and judge of fmaller
Matters among the People 5 which is nobly ex-
prefs'd. Numb. xi. 17. ihey fhall hear the Burthen
of the People with, thee. In the next Chapter Miriam^
and even Aaron himfelf, fpake againft Mofey^ that is
in fhort rofe in Rebellion > and God, to honour his
Servant, tells them how he had, and would diftin-
guifh Mofes from all the reft. ver. 8. With him will
I fpeak Mouth 10 Mouthy even Apparently, and
not in Dark Speeches^ and the Similitude of the hoKU
Jhallhe Bk HO L.D.
Here is a poiicive Declaration from Heaven,
that God would appear viiibly to Mofes -y the like
Inftance is not to be {een in the whole Bible. The
Word Apparently is plain, it can be no otherwifb
underftood, without grofs Equivocating with the
Text.
Come we next to the Times of our Bleffed Sa-
viour, and there we have two eminent Appear-
ances within the Compafs of our prefent Argu-
ment.
I. The
tA The Hijlory and Reality
I. The Holy Ghost appearing in the Shapfi
of a Dove.
2,. T H E Appearance of Jesus Christ after his
Refurredion, when in the glorify'd Body where-
with he afcended 5 and that this was an Apparition,
is plain, from the feveral Circumftances of his Ap-
pearance.
FIRST^ When he join'd the two Difciples go-
ing to Emaus : that he appear'd as a Man, the Text
is plain from his walking with them, and Difcourfe
to them i and that it was but an Apparition is
alfo plain. Luke xxiv. 16. Their Eyes wsre holden
that they Jhould not knoiv him : and ver. t, i . when their
Eyes were opened to know him he vanilhed out of
their Sight.
SECONDLT^ When he appear'd to Mary Mag-
^^/^;? at the Sepulchre, but forbad her to touch him,
John XX. 17. And again ver. ip. when he came
into the Room where the Difciples were aflembled,
and when the Doors were fliut, and faid, Peace be
"
unto to you. Thus it is evident Chriil has appear'd,
and he has told us he fhail appear again, coming
in the Clouds of Heaven > and we look for that
blcfTed Hope, and glorious Appearing.
Thus then you have God himfelf, Father^ Sort
and Holy Ghoft^ appearing in diftin6t Times, in fe-
veral Shapes or Forms of Appearance, all giving
Teftimony in general to the Reality of this Truth,
That Spirits can affume Humane or other Shapes,
and be made vifible to Mankind j and this is what
we call Apparition.
Having thus brought an Inftance of the moft
exalted Kind, even the Appearance or Apparition
of God himfelf, 'tis needful to ftate a little the
Difference between thofe Appearances, and that
which we are now to difcourfe of.
'Tis an Objection natural to the Cafe in hand,
We do not queftion, much lefs enquire, whether
infinite
of APPARITIONS.
infinite Power, to whom all things are not poffiblc
only, but eafy, can afflime a Humane Shape, or any-
other j and appear, when^ where^ how^ and in
what Form he thinks fie j and that he has, or may-
have fo appeared. But there is a manifeft Difference
between what God is able, or may pleafe to do up-
on extraordinary Occafions, and what any of his
Creatures may or can do.
BEsit)ES 'tis evident, or at leafb we have rea-
fon to believe, that God himfelf did appear in thofc
Times upon thofe extraordinary Occafions only,
and that he has never appear'd finccj except that
Ihould be call'd an Appearance or Apparition which
fpoke to St. Paul at his Converfion, when it is ex-
preily faid, he faw a Light, and heard a Voice, but
law no Man 5 tho' afterwards he calls it feeing him,
I Cor. XV . 8 . Lafi of all he was feen of me alfo. Wh ere-
as St. Paul^ we all know, did fpeak there of leeing
Chrifl in the Flefh, while he was on Earth. But
1 fay, except this, we have no Example of any
Appearance of the Divine Majefty in Humane
Shape, or in any other manner whatfoever.
That therefore we mud diftinguifh this from
the Subjeft we are now entering upon, for that the
Appearances of God are extremely different from the
Apparitions of Creatures, whether Angels, Devils,
or Souls of Men. That the Qiieftion is not. Whe-
ther God can do this or that j but. Whether the Spi-
rits, Spirits Inferior, can do it : and, which is yet
more to our Purpofe, Suppofe it has been fo for-
merly, and in ancient times, whether they do con-
tinue to do fo Hill, or have power to do it, let
the Occafion be what it will.
Thus the Enquiry is reduc'd to a narrower
Compafs. I take upon me the Affirmative^ and we
are now to look back into Time for the Confirma-
tion orProof of it, and by enquiring what has been,
inform our felves of what may be, is, or is to be
expeflied, as occafion may require. And
The Hijiory and Reality
And firft to defcribe the Thing, and explairt
what is generally underftood by the Apparition of
Spirits i that 1 may not hold you in Sufpence, or
Criticife upon the bare Words Spirit and Appari^
tion^ I come plainly to the Meaning, as I am to
be underftood in this Work : By Apparition of Spi-
rits, then, I mean, when the Invilible Inhabitants
of the unknown World, be they who they will,
aflume Humane Shapes, or other Shapes, and fhow
themfelves vifibly to us, fo as that we can fee them,
fpcak to them, hear them fpeak, and the like.
This is what our People vulgarly call Walking ^
and when any fuch thing appears, they know not
what otherwife to call it, they fay Something walks-,
and if it be the Appearance of any known Perfon
lately dead, ' they fay Sucb a one Walks.
Thus I lay every thing down with the utmoft:
plainnefs, that I may leave the Reader in no Un-
certainty about my Meaning in the Subject 1 am
upon, or give room for Cavilings or Difputings,
at either the Thing it felf, or the manner of Ex-
preffing ti.
We fpeak in Vain
Of I'ruth it felf^ unlefs *we fpeak it Plain.
Words wrapt in Clouds^ till theirfull Meanings known^
Such Words are not the Hearer's^ but our own*
^he End of Speakings loft
For Speech was ginjen to he underftood.
Asking Pardon for giving this Loofe to my
Thoughts, I return to the Subje6b, left I fhould
be but an Apparition ray felf.
The Apparitions I am to fpeak of are thefe.
1. The Appearance of Angels.
2. O F Devils.
3. Of the departed Souls of Men.
Thes^
of AP PARiriONS. 17
IThese are thofe, who we mean by the Inhabi-
tants of the Invifible World, or Worlds 3 th^
World of Spirits, and the Superior Beings, who
are faid to converfc with the Spirits embodied^
by Vifion or Apparition, or any other Superior
Way.
By Apparition alfo I am to underftand (iich Ap-
pearances of thefe fuperior Beings as are Spontane-
ous and Voluntary, or at lead fo far as relates to us 5
that is to fay, I diitinguiih between thofe Apparitions
which appear of their own accord, or by fuperior
Miffion and Authority 5 atid thofe which that dark
Race of People among us, who would be call'd Ma«
gicians, talk of5 Spirits, or things call'd Spirits, which
are raifed, as we foolifhly call it, by the Arts of Men %
by Witchcraft, Sorcery, Magick, and fuch other
infernal Arts, as are, or have been made ufe
of for that Purpofe j and by which they tell us Spi-^
rits are calPd down from the fuperior Regions (ol
where-evcr their Abode has been) to {how them-
felves vifibly, fpeak to, and converfe with Man-
kind, anfwer Queflions, foretel Events, and the
like J as Samuel is faid to be brought to appear to
SauJ^ I Sam. xxviii. 14. How far thefe Magicians,
Witches, and other Dealers in thefe dark Things,
have or have not Power to caufe fuch Appearan-
ces, and to form Apparitions j and how far they
impofe upon, and delude the World in it, That I
may fpeak of by it feif, and indeed it well deferves
Confideration. But for the prefent, 1 fay, I am talk*
ing of another Kind of Apparitions.
C H A, P.
1 8 The Hifiory and Realky
CHAP. II.
Of the Appearance of Angels immediately in
Miffion as from Heaven ; and why we are
to fuppofe thofe kinds of Apparitions are at
an End.
THAT Angels have appeared to Men, we have
abundant Teflimony in the Hiflories of
Times Paft, as well Sacred as Prophane j nor fhall
1 fpend one Moment of your Time to examine, or
confirm it, except as it comes neceflarily in by
the occafion of other Difcourfe: For it is not the
Appearance of Angels as fuch, but the Appearance
of Angels in the Shape of Men, that is the prefenc
Enquiry.
That this has been, is evident, and in general
the Scripture gives this Teflimony to it: when the
Apoflle advifes to Hofpitality, and to entertain
Strangers, he adds, For thereby fome have entertain''
Angels unatvares, Heb. xiii. 2. This mufl be meant
of Angels in Humane Shape, otherwife the hofpi-
table Perfon could not be miflaken in fuch a manner:
Befides, it plainly refers to Abraham^ Gen. xviii. i.
fitting in the Door of his Tent, n)er. 1. three Men
flood by himj two of thefc were certainly Angels j
who the third was, I have fhcwn already. It may
likewife include Lot^ in whofe Story, Gen. xix. it is
exprefs'd, ver. i. that they were two Angels, and
'ver. 8. Lot calls them the/e Men^ and ver 10, 12,
16. they arc called the Men-y fo that Lot believ'd
them to be Men only, and as fuch he not only in-
vited them unto his Houfe, ver.'z. but he made
them a Feaft, and they did cat, 'uer, j.
Th&se
of APPARITIONS. ' ip
, These Apparitions of Angels, in the Shape of
Men, are undeniable on other Occafionsj but when
they appear as Angels, it is find fo plainly, and in
fo many Words 5 as in the Cafe of Abraham^ when
he was going to offer his Son Ifaac^ Gen. xxii. 11.
^he Angel of the Lord called to Abraham out of Hea-^
'ven-y and again ver. if. The Angel of the Lord called
the fecond time.
There are innumerable Examples of Angels
appearing as Angels 5 but we are upon the Ap-
pearance of Angels as Men, and in the Shape and
Habit of Men. The next Inftance is, of an Angel
appearing to Jofbua^ and who is called the Captain
of the Lord's Hoft, Jofh, v. 13. Jofhua looked^ and
behold there flood a Man over-againfl him^ with a
Sword drawn in his Hand. Immediately Jojhua^ Sol-
dier-like, gives him the qui viise^ or in Englifh^ who
are you for? art thou for us, or for our Adverfaries?
and the Spectre or Apparition fpoke immediately
again, ^ver. 14. and then Jofhua perceived that it
was not a Man, but an Angel in Apparition j and
in the Heads or Contents of the Chapter, 'tis ex^
prefly faid, an Ar>gel appears to Jofhua.
Another Example is, of the Angel that ap-
pear'd to Manoah the Father of Sampfon\ his Wife
indeed calls him a Man of God, and that he ap-
peared to her J but fays, that his Countenance was
like an Angel of God, very terrible j Judges xiii. <5.
But flill when he appeared a fecond time, it was in
the Shape of a Man, or elfe why did Manoah de-
fire him to ftay 'till he could drefs a Kid for him ?
and the Words are exprefs, ver. 16. He knew not
that it was an Angel of the Lord,
There are other Examples in Scripture, where
the Angels have appeared in Humane Shape, and
convers'd with Men upon Earth, befides fuch as
have appear'd in their real Angelick Form as An-
gels. How and in what they were known to be
C i Angels,
20 The Hijlory and Reality
Angels, in what Form they have been fecn, and in
what Voice they fpoke, is not difcover'd to us in
the Scripture. Some are of Opinion, that even
thofe Angels appear'd in the Shape of Men, and
cloathed as Men 5 as the Angel that met Balaam
with a flaming Sword in his Hand 5 the Angels
W^hich Jacob faw afcending and defcending on the
Ladder J the Angels that fpoke to Zacharias in the
Temple, to the Virgin Mary in the Chamber,
and that fat in the Sepulchre after Chrift was rifen,
and asked the V>'\^Q.\^\t%^'why feek yc the Living among
the Dead? and fo in feveral Cafes: All that can b&
anfwer'd is, that the Text call'd them Angels, and
fo far we are not to doubt it > but I muft alfo al-
low, that they fcem to me to have been in the
Figure of Menj as for thofe in the Sepulchre,
St* Luke fays exprefly, they faw two Men in fhining
Garments, Luke xxiv. 4. and in the fame Chapter,
ver. 25. 'tis faid, they had feen a Vifion of Angels.
Thus far it relates to good Angels, fuch as
have been feen on Earth in Apparition, but have
made fuch an Appearance by vertue of the fuperior
Miflion, as the Angel Gabriel^ who tells Zacharias^
Jamfent to fpeak unto thee.
That thefe have upon many occafions been
fecn in Humane Shape is evident > and tho* much
more time might be fpent upon the Proof, I think
^tis needlefsj indeed the Evidence is fufficient.
There is a Queftion ftill remaining, relating
to this Part, (viz) How comes it to pafs that all
this is ceafed, and that the Angels have done
coming, or arc no more fent offuch Errands ? but t hat
all the Angels we have any Account of in thefe
Days, are of a worfe kind, and generally come
upon worfe Errands ? and which particular Obfer-
vation is the very reafon of our Doubts, whether
the Appearance of the other is real or not.
This
of APPARITION S. XX
This Queftion might be anfwer'd many Ways,
but 'cis too grave for the Times 5 and as we are
not writing Divinity, I fhall not load you with
ferious Points: The fhort Account of it is this:
We have now^^ rnove fure IVord of Prophecy : (than
is) that fince the Preaching of the Gofpel, and
the Revelation of God by a written Word, there
is no more need of what the Text calls a miniftra-
tion of Angels. The Scripture is a daily Revelation,
and the Spirit of God, who is promifed to lead us,
is a daily Infpiration, there is no more need of
Vifion and Apparition > and this is that glorious Dif-
ference between the Revelations of thofe Days,
and thefe of ours, and the reafon of the Difference
between the Apparitions of thefe Times and of
thofe.
When I am fpeaking things ferious, I am to
fpeak very ihort, that 1 may not fhock your rea-
ding J the Tafte of the Times happening at this Jun-
fture to lye another way : but my next Article per-
haps may make you amends, I mean the Appear-
ance of the grand Arch-Angel of all, and, as I fup-
pofe, the only Arch- Angel out of Heaven, namely
the Devil
CHAP. III.
Of the Appearance of the Devil m
Humane Shape,
PRAY obferve, when I am fpeaking of the Ap-
pearance of the Devil, it is not to tell yoa
that he can and does appear among us at this
timej fo you need not look over your Shoulders
Xo fee for him, or at the Candles, to fee
C 5 if
11 The Hifior*^ and Reality
if they burn Blue, at leafl not yet 5 'tis time
'
enough for that by and by.
But I am examining now the matter of Fa£t
only, as (i.) Whether the Devil can appear here, yea
or no 5 whether he is allow'd to come, that his Chain
reaches fo far, and that his Tether is long enough?
alfo, (i.) Whether he is ever fent or dire6bed to
come, or that he comes of his own accord, and a-
bouthis own Bufinefs? /\nd as all thefe will lead me
to enquire what has been 5 from thence we may
beft judge, what is, or may be.
That he has upon fpecial Occafions appeared
in former Times is certain, as well from Scripture as
ancient Hiftory, and a fmall Retrofpe6i: will fatisfie
you in that Point. If it appears that he has been
here, then 'tis very probable his Chain is long e-
nough, and that he is allow'd the Liberty to come
fo far from Home. P'or we have no Authority to
fay, or to believe, that his Tether is fhorten'd, or
that he is more reftrain'd now than ever he was
before.
His cntring the Garden of God in the begin-
ning of Time, and the Havock he made there, the
turning Adam and Eve out, and even turning the
whole frame of Nature upfide down by his vile
Doings there > all this I have mentioned : But we
have more yet to fay of him j for he is ftill in Being,
and ftill the fame malicious Devil, the fame De-
ftroyer and Accufer that ever he was ; the Flame of
Fire fet to guard the Garden, did not burn him 5
the Deluge didn't drown him : Nor has Juftice
thought fit yet to take him into its Iron Hands,
tho' it will certainly do it at laft> and, as the Scri-
pture fays in another Cafe, his Damnation flum-
bereth notj for Juftice is truly reprefented
fVith Leaden Feet and Iron Hands^ to Jhow
It will h certain, tho* it may he Jlow.
The
of APPARITION S. ij
The firft time we meet with the DeviPs per-
fonal Appearance upon Earth, I mean after the
Flood, is in the Story o^ Job\ nor by all the Cal-
culations of Times, which the learned Chronolo-
gers of thoie Days have made, could that be long
after it 5 for Eliphaz the Temanite could not be far-
ther off than the Grandfon of Efau^ or thereabouts.
Gen. xxxvi. 11.
I N Joh\ Time, the Text fays that the Sons of
God came to prefmt themfelves before the Lord^ and
Satan came alfo among them. So that it feems the Angel
of Light was drefs'd up like the Sons of God,
even in thofe ancient Days 5 and it is not likely that
this was the firft Time neither: Again, it feems
by the Text, that tho' God himfelf might know
Satan in that Difguife, yet the People, among whom
he came, did not know him.
The Anfwerlikewife which he makes to the Que-
ftion, implies ftrongly, that Satan had been wont
to walk among thofe Sons of God in Difguife long
before that > for when God fays to him, 'whence
comeft thou ? his Anfwer feems to be a kind of gene-
ral, I come from following my known Bud-
nefs, my old Trade > doeft thou know I am a roar-
ing Lion, and doeft thou ask me whence I come?
Why, I come from feeking who I may devour,
ranging the World, going to and fro in the Earthy
and ^walking up and down in this Difguife, as thou
now feeft me, that I may do all the Mifchief I can.
God's Return again to Satan confirms it, as if
the Lord had faidj Well, Satan, then thou muil
have feen my Servant Job ? Hafl thou confidedd him,
t}oat there is none like him in the Earth ? '
The Devil makes an Anfwer that implies he
knew Job very well. Do 1 know him to be a good
Man ! yes : But then I know him to be a rich Man
too: 'Tis an eafy thing for a Man to be honeft,
that is fo rich 5 he Qan have no room for asking
C 4 more:
14 7^^^ Hijlory and Reality
more : What fhould he fteal for, or be a Knave for,
that is the richeft Man in the World? Whatfhould
he covet, that has no room for Defire ? But if thou
haft a Mind to try his Honefty, and his Piety, his
Fear of thee, and his Hatred of Evil, blaft his
Wealth, and take his prodigious Flocks and Herds
of Cattle away J level him, bring him to be like
other Men in Riches, and reduce him to Beggary,
and then fee if he won't be like other Men in Crime 5
nay, he'll be raging and furious, and curfe thee to
thy Face,
This, tho' it may feem remote, is to my Pur-
popfe thus : it fhows that the Devil was no Stran--
ger among the People. He had walk'd up and
down in Difguife, fo as to know them all, and their
Circumftancej He had been drefs'd up like one of
the reft in Human Shape, fo that he could not be
known from the very beft of Men, no not from
the Sons of God.
Some are of Opinion, by the Sons of God there,
is meant the patriarchal Heads of Families, who had,
in right of Primogeniture, the Priefthood in Courfe,
and were the only Sacrificers at that Time, as Jhra^
ham^ and as Job were s fo that in fliort Satan has long
ago drefs'd himfelf in the Habit of the Clergy. Blefs
us all! we hope he does not do fo ftillj for if the
Devil fhould put on the Gown and CafTock, or the
black Cloak, or the Coat and the Cord, and be
walking about the World in that Difguife now,
howeafilymay we be cheated, and miftake the Sons
of God for the Prince of Darknefs? and how
C0UJ4 we tell one from t'other ? But of that here?
after.
CHAP.
of JP PARITIO NS. If
CHAP. IV.
Of the Apparition of Spirits ^nembodiedy
and which never were Embodied^ not fuch
as are vulgarly called Ghojis^ that is to fay^
departed Souls returning again and appear^
ing vifibly on Earthy but Spirits of a fupe-
rior and angelick Nature ; with an Opinion
of another Species.
THERE appears a Qiicftion here in the very
Beginning of the Debate, which will be ve-
ry hard to decide, and perhaps impoilible ; How-
ever, that we may not ftumble at the Threiliold, I
will touch it as gently, and yet as clearly as I can.
The Queftion is this j Whether are there any Spirits
inhabiting the invifible World, which have never
yet been embodied, and yet are not to be reckon'd
of the Species of Angels Good ov Bad?
B Y Angels Good and Bad, I fuppofc I may be eafily
underftood to mean what you all think you mean
when you fort or rank them into only two Kinds,
viz. Angels or Devils -, in which vulgar and gene-
ral, not to fay fooliih way of exprefling it, I hum-
bly conceive the felf-wife World much miftaken.
It \s true it is a Speculation, and every one is at
Liberty to think for themfelves, and among them
fo am 1 5 in which, tho' I have a better Opinion
of my own Judgment than always to facrifice it to
vulgar Notions, and that too at the Price of my
Reafonj yet I have withal fo little Pride^ and fo
mean an Opinion of my own Thoughts, that 1 fhall
not venture to advance any thing, in a Cafe fo ex-
ceedingly liable to Cavil and Exception.
Two Places in Scripture fpcak of Angels in a dif-
ferent Style from th^ ordinary and ufual way of un-
derftanding
tL6 The Htfiory and Reality
derftanding the Word. Mat. xviii. lo. fpeaking of
little Children, Chriil fays, that in Heaven their /An-
gels do always behold the Face of my Father which is
in Heaveh: the or her is A5is xii. i<;. when Peter
knocked at the Door where the Dilciples were ga-
ther'd together, and they believing him to be in
Chains, and in the Prifon, Hiid it is his Angeh
The learned Expoiitors and Annotacors ex-
tremely differ upon the Meaning of thqfe Texts,
and 'tis not my Bufinefs here to reconcile them.
Some will have it to mean nothing hue a kind of
an Exclamation or Admiration 5 What can it be!
is it an Angel ! And of the firit, about Children,
th;'V fay it only intimates, that their Souls, when
glorify 'd, fhall always^ if they go away in Peace,
hehold the Face of GO D in Heaven.
Others run out to an imaginary Scheme of
Guardian Angels attending every Man and Woman
while they are upon Earth > a Notion fo uncertain,
if granted, and that has fo many Difficulties to re-
concile, before it can be believed, that 'tis much
better to leave it where it is, and which 1 fhall ex-
plain prefently a much eafier Way.
N o w, I fay, 'tis not my prefcnt^Eudnefs to re-
concile thefe diftant and clalhing Opinions, at lead
not in this Work. 1 have ftartcd a Qucllionj pofH-
bly my Opinion is with the affirmative, at leall I
think it poffible, and that it is Rational to believe it}
perhaps I may name you as improbable a Notion,
and much more inconfillent with the Chritlian
Religion, which yet Philofophy bids us call rational,
and dire6ts us to believe.
How^are we put to it to form Inhabitants for
the Planetary Worlds : Philofophy fays they are ha-
bitable Bodies, folid, opaac, as this Earth, and we
will have them be inhabited alfo, whether it be
with or without, for or againft our Reafon and Un-
derftanding j 'tis no Satisfaftion to them, or will ic
flop
0f APPARITIONS. xy
flop their Cavils, to fay 'tis not Fadj that they are
not habitable > that both Saturn and Jupiter are un-
comfortably dark, unfufFerably cold, would congeal
the very Soul (if that were poflible) and fo are not habi-
table on that Account j that Mercury and Venus are
infufFerably hot, that the very Water would always
boyl, the Fire burn up the Vitals 5 andthat,infhort,
no human Creatures could fubfift in fuch Heat:
But this is not fatisfadory neither j but rather than
not have all thofe opaac Worlds be inhabited, and
even their Satellites or Moons about them too, they
will have God be obliged to create a Species of Bo-
dies fuitable to their feveral Climates.
I N Saturn they are to live without Eyes, or be a
Kind fo illuminated from their own internal Heat
and Light, that they can fee fufficiently by their
own Beams.
I N Jupiter there muft be another Kind, that can
live in Twilight, and by the Refleftion of its own
Moons, and fubfift in continued Froft.
'
In Mercury the Species muft be all Salamanders,
and live in the continued Fire of the Sun's Beams,
more intenfe than what would be fufficient to burn
all our Houfes, and melt our Copper, Lead, and
Iron in the very Mines 5 {o the Inhabitants muft be
of a Kind better able to bear the Fire than thofe
Metals, and would ftill live tho' they were continu-
ally calcining if not vitrifying into Glais.
I N Venus the Heat would boil the Water, and con-
fequently the Blood in the Body, and a Set of hu-
man Bodies muft be form'd that could live always
in a hot Bath, and neither fweat out their Souls,
or melt their Bodies.
I N Mars^ fo very dry in its Nature, no Vegetables
or Senfativcs could fubfift that we have any Notion
of, for want of Moifturej and the Men that liv'd
there muft be dried up fufficiently for pulverizing
on any fuitable Occafion, I mean human Beings, and
of our Species. Now
^8 The Htflor^ and Reality
Now if God muft not be fuppofed to have crea-
ted fo many habitable Bodies without peopling them,
and that it would refledb upon his Wifdom to lay
fo much of his Creation waftej that all the Planets
fliould feem to be made for nothing but to range
about the Wafte as a kind of dark Inhabitants 5 of
no ufe but to fhine a little, and that with but bor-
row'd Beams too, upon this Httle Point called
Earth, where only a Set of Rationals can exift j I
fay, if this muft not be fuppofed, but on the con-
trary there arc certainly People of one Kind or
another in all thofe Bodies, let the Trouble of ma-
*
king them be what it will} if this be the Cafe,
and that this muft be believed in fpight of fo ma-
ny Difficulties and Inconfiftencies 5 then allow mc
to argue a little upon the following Enquiry.
Why may I not as well fuggeft, and that with
every jot as much Probability, that there are, or at
leaft may be, a certain Number of appointed Inha-
bitants in the vaftly-extended Abyfs of Space, a
kind of Spirits (other than the Angels good or bad,
and other than the unerobodied or uncafed Souls of
Men) who dwell in the invifible World, and in the
Vaft No'where of unbounded Space, of which we
can neither fay what it is, what it contains, or how
determined: That Great Wafte, of whofe Extent
^tis hardly poftible even the Soul itfelf can conceive,
and of which all the Accounts we give, and Guefles
we make, are fo remote, look fo Enthufiaftic, fo
improbable, and fo like impoffible, that inftead of
informing the ignorant Part of the World by it,
we only arm them with Jeft and Ridicule, and re-
folve them into incurable Unbelief} depending that
what it is not poftible to Conceive of, is not poffi-r
ble to Be.
No w is this immenfe Space indeed a Void? is it
all a Wafte? is it utterly defolate? or is it inhabited
gpd peopled by the Omnipotent Maker, in a manner
fuited
of APPARITIONS. t^
fuited to his own Glory, and with fuch Inhabitants
as are fpirituous, invifible, and therefore perfe&ly
proper to the Place?
1 MUST needs fay, 'tis much more rational to
fuggeft this to be, than to bring out a Species of
human bodies to live in the Intenfe Heat of Mer-
cury^ or the acute Cold of Jupiter and Saturn, The
latter is agreeable to the general Underflanding
we all have of fpirituous Beings : We are well af-
fured there are feme always there, and that they
can very well fubfift there j that the Place is fuit-
able to them, and that there are Spirits of fome
Kind or other 3 and why not fuch as we fuggeft ?
It remains then only to examine what Commu-
nication thefe Spirits have with us, whether they
are or arc not able to hold Converfation with us,
and whether they really do converfe familiarly with
us, yea or no?
I F it ihould be granted that there are fuch Spi-
rits in Being, and that they pafs .and repafs, cxift,
and have Egrefs and Regrefs there j that they inha-
bit, as a certain bombaftic Author has it,
T'hrd* all the liquid Mazes of the Sky 5
I fay, if this fhould be granted, then it remains
that here is a fourth Species that may affume Shapes 5
for Spirits may do that, and may appear among us,
may converfe with our embodied Spirits, and from
thofe we may receive abundance of additional In-
telligence from the World of Spirits, whether by
Dream^ Vifion, Appearance, or any fuperior way,
fuch as to them in their great Knowledge of things
fhall feem meet. To fpeak as diftin6bly of this nice
Part as I can, admit me to explain my felf a little.
If we grant that Spirit, tho' invifible in it felf,
may aflume Shape, may veft it felf fo with Flefh
and Blood, that is feemingly, fo as to form an Ap-
pearance,
5 7^^ Hiftory and Reality
pearance, then all Spitic may do it 5 fince we have
no Rule given us by which we may diflinguiih
Spirits one from another, I mean as to their a6k-
ings in the Capacity of Spirits : Wc may indeed,
as I have faid already, diftinguifh them by the Ef-
feft, that is to fay, by the Errand they come on,
and by the manner of their Operations, as whe-
ther they are good or evil Spirits 5 but not by
their Nature as Spirit. The Bevil is as really
a Spirit, tho' a degenerated, fallen, and evil
Spirit, I fay, he is as much a Spirit to all the In-
tents and Purpofes of a Spirit that we are capable
to judge of, as an Angel 5 and he is called the evil
Spirit i He has Invifibility, and Multiprefence,
as a Spirit has 5 he can appear tho' the Doors be
fhutj and go our, tho' bolted and barr'd in 5 no
Prifon can hold him, but his lad eternal Dungeon j
no Chains can bind him, but the Chains faften'd
on him by Heaven, and the Angel of the bottom-
lefs Pit j no Engine or human Art can wound him 5
in fhort, he is neither to be {ttx\^ felt, heard, or
underftood, unlefs he pleafes j and he can make him-
felf be both feen and heard too, if he pleafes 5 for
he can afTume the Shape and Appearance of Man
or Beaft, and in thefe Shapes and Appearances can
make himfelf vifiihle to us, terrify and affright us,
converfe in a friendly or in a frightful manner
with us, as he thinks fit; he can be a Companion
and Fellow-Traveller in the Day, an Apparition
and a horrible Monfter in the Night : in a Word,
he can be among us, and a6t upon, and with us,
vifibly or invifibly as he pleafes, and as he finds
for his purpofe.
Now if he does, and can do thus, roeerly as he
is a Spirit, and by his fpiritual Nature, we have
a great deal of Reafon to believe, that all Spirit may
do the fame J or at leaffc I may ask. Why may not
all Spirit do the fame ? and if there are any Kinds
of
of APPARITIONS. 31
of Spirit, as is not improbable, befides thofe we have
hitherto conceiv'd of, they may be reafonably fup-
pofed to be vefled with the fame Powers, and may
exert thofe Powers in the fame or a like manner.
I F any Man asks me how I make out the Pro-
bability of thefe differing Species of Spirits? I an-
fwer as above, by this. That it appears there are
invifible Operations and a fecret Converfe carried
on among Men from the World of Spirits, where-ever
that is, which cannot, at lead to our Underflandings,
be fuppofed to be the Work either of thofe particular
or proper Angels which refide in Heaven, or the in-
fernal Angels either j that thefe Spirits, or if you pleafe
to call them Angels, appear and converfe for Good,
and therefore may not be fuppofed to be the De-
i;//, or from the Z)m/; It is faid indeed, that they a6t
by a vifible kind of Reftraint, in doing Good with
afort ofanImperfe6tion and manifeft Debility j foas
fometimes to a6i:, as it were, to no purpofe, being
not able to make the Good they aim at efFedual,
and therefore cannot be from Heaven, the Foun-
tain of Good J who, as he is Good, fo he is in-
finitely able to do all the Good thnt he appears
willing to do : But this, I think, confirms rather
than confutes my Opinion j for, it proves them to
be fent, and under particular Commiffion ; it only
fuggeils, that 'tis probable there are Spirits who
may be more confin'd and reftrain'd in their Power
of ading, fome than others, and this is not at all
inconfiftent with the Nature of the thing.
The great, and perhaps the llrongeft Argu-
ment which our learned Men produce for the
Credit of their new Philofophy is, that by this
they can the better folve the Difficulties of feve-
ral other Phosmmena^ which before were hardly
intelligible, or at leaft which they could not ac-
count for any other way.
In
3 % The Hijiory and Reality
1 N like manner, tho' the Certainty of my Sug-»
geftion cannot be arrived to, or fuppofing it can-
not, and that at beft it is but a Speculation^
fcarcely can be called an HypotheJiSj and that no
Evidence can be given for it, yet this muft be faid of
it, that by this Notion we may folve feveral other
Difficulties which we cannot underftand any other
Way : fuch as^
FIRS'T^ How it is, and from whence, or by
whofe Agency we frequently receive fuch kind No-
tions of Good or Evil as 'tis certain we do, and
yet without receiving any farther Afliftance, which
perhaps it is not in the Power of the kind Infor-
mer to give us, cither for the avoiding or embracing
the Evil or the Good which they give us No-
tice of ?
What can it be that communicates thefe ap-
proaching diflant things, and which it is fo much
our Intereft and Concern to know? If it were an
evil Spirit, I mean a Devil^ as I have faid above, he
would never concern himfelf fo much for our Bene-
fit, feeing he is known to will our Ruin to the ut-
moft of his Endeavour, and to wifh us to fall into
all poflible Mifchief and Difafter.
O N the other hand, it cannot be from Heaven
or from the Angels > for the Works of God are all,
like himfelf, perfect, and he would not fo far dilho-
nour his Mefiengers, as to allow them, nay to fend
them (for they could never come unfent) to give-
us Notice of Evil, and yet take it out of our Power
to avoid its o^* to foretell good things at hand, and
then give us no Power to embrace them, or to lay
hold of them-, and it would neither confift with
the infinite Goodnefs, or with the infinite Juftice,
to do thus by his Creatures.
Besides, 'tis a kind of incongruous ading, un-
worthy of the fupreme Power, unworthy an An-
gel's appearing i it rather fhews that it is the Pro-
4 du£t
0f APPARITIONS. 3J
du£t of fome intelligent Being, who tho' it means
Good, and has a beneficent Nature that would
contribute to our Safety and Profperity if it could,
yet is under fome Limitations of its agings, is not
able to proceed in the Good it has attempted, that
can juft do us fo much Service as to give us Notice
of what may await us behind the dark Curtain of
Futurity 5 but has no Power to go any farther, or
to give any Afliftance to us in purfuing proper Me-
thods for our Deliverance 5 no, not fo much as to
give Dire<5i:ions, much lefs Powers to a6t 5 as
a Child difcovering a Fire begun in a Houfe,
may cry out and alarm the Family, but is able to
do no more, no not fo much as to tell them where-
about it is, or which way they fhould go about to
efcape from it, much lefs to quench or prevent it.
These imperfeft Notices, I fay, feem to proceed
from fome good and kind Being, which is near us,
.cxifting, tho* out of our Knowledge, yet not fo
remote, but that it is in Condition to fee and
know things good or evil, which tho' approaching,
is yet out of our View, and which, if we could
take the filent Hint, it might be infinitely for our
Advantage, but is able to do no more.
Now, if fuch Notices, whether to the Mind
by Dreams when afleep, or by wakinglmpulfc, orby
Voice, or by Apparation 5 if they were from Heaven
they would never be fo imperfe(5b and unaffiftingj
we cannot fuppofe Heaven would concern itfelf to
give us Notices of Danger impending, of Enemies
lying in wait, of Mifchicfs approaching, and would
then leave us to fall into the Snare by an unavoid-
able Neceflity.
As to what thefe Spirits therefore are, where
they refide, what Circumftances they are in, and
how they have accefs to our Underllandings, I ac-
knowledge the Difficulty to be great, and do not pre-
tend to enter upon it here 5 that they may foraetimes
appear is not improbable : But I hope I may fay,
D that
34 The Hifiory and Reality
that all Apparitions are not the Devil^ nor yet may
they be Angels immediately from Heaven, for ma-
ny Reafons.
TIRSf^ From the Meannefs of the Occafions, I
mean of fome of the Occafions, on which thcfe
things happen. That there are Angels fent from
Heaven on particular Meflages and Errands, to ful-
fil the Mind and Will of their Maker and Sove-
reign, all Men muftgrantj I have already prov'd it,
and abundance of Examples may be given of it, bc-
fides thofe already named j but we never find thofe
Angels coming upon trifling Errands, and for things
of mean Import. I^he Angel of the LO RD appear'd
to Gideon at the Threfhing-floor, to fummon him
to the Deliverance of the whole Nation of ISRAEL :
The Angel of the LO RD appear'd to David with
his drawn Sword, threatning Deftruftion to JerU'
falem : The Angels appear'd to the Shepherds to fig-
nify the Birth o£ C HRIST', as an Angel had done
to the Virgin to falute her, and tell her what great
a Work was to be wrought in her : Angels ap-
pear'd to miniftcr to CHRIS f after his Temp-
tation in the Wildernefs> and an Angel appear'd
ftrengthening him in his Agony, and Angels have
appear'd on many other fuch eminent Occafions 5
but not except fuch Occafions were eminent, and
that particularly fo.
But here you have an old Woman dead, one that,
it may be, has hid a little Money in the Orchard or
Garden J and an Apparition, is fuppos'd, comes and
difcovers it, by leading the Perfon it appears to,
to the Place, and making fome Signal that he
fliould dig there for fomewhatj or a Man is dead,
and having left a Legacy to fuch and fuch, the
Executor does not pay it, and an Apparition comes
and haunts this Executor 'till he does Juftice. Is it
likely an Angel fhould be fent from Heaven to find
out the old Woman's earthen Difh with thirty or
forty Shillings in it ? or an Angel fhould be fent to
harrafs
of AFP A Rn IONS. 3 J
harrafs this Man for a Legacy of perhaps five or
ten Pounds? and as to the Be'vil^ will any one charge
Satan with being follicitous to have Juftice done ?
they that know him at all, muft know him better
than to think fo hardly of him.
Who then muft it be? and from whence? To
fay it is the Soul or Ghoft of the departed Perfon,
and that he could not be at reft, 'till the injured
Perfon be Righted, is advanc'd upon no Principle
that is agreeable to the Chriftian Dodrine at all;
for if the Soul is happy, is it reafonable to believe
that the Felicity of Heaven can be interrupted
by fo trivial a Matter, and on fo flight an Occafion ?
if the Soul be unhappy, remember the great Gulph
fix'dj there is no room for us to believe that thofc
miferable Souls have any Lcifure or Liberty to come
back upon Earth on an Errand of fuch a Nature.
In a word, there is nothing but Difficulty in it on
every fide ; Apparitions there are, we fee no room
to doubt the Reality of that Part j but what, who, or
from whence, is a Difficulty which I fee no way to
extricate our felves from, but by granting that there
may be an appointed, deputed fort of ftationary Spi-
rits in the invifible World, who come upon thefe Oc-
cafions, and appear among usj which Inhabitants or
Spirits (you may call them Angels if you pleafc) Bo-
dies they are not, and cannot be, neither had they
been ever embodied 5 but fuch as they are, they have a
Power of convcrfing among us, and particularly with
Spirits embodied, and can by Dreams, Impulfes and
ftrongAvcrfions, move our Thoughts, and give Hope,
raife Doubts, fink our Souls to-day, elevate thcn\
to-morrow, and many ways operate upon our Paf-
fions and Affe6tions 5 may give Intimations of Good
or Evil J but cannot, thro' fome unknown Reftraint
upon their Power, go any farther, fpeak any plainer,
or give the leaft Affiftanceto us, no, not by Council
orDiredion to guide us or tell us how to ad for our
QWn Prcfcrvation. D 2 I
3^ The Hiftory and Reality
I A M told that thefe may be good Angeh for all
that, and that it is no juft way of arguing, to fay
fuch things are too trifling to fend an Angel from
Heaven upon fo mean an Errand, and upon fo in-
confiderable an Affair > fince we fee Providence
daily giving Teftimony, not of its Government
only, but of its Care and Concern, in and about
the meaneft Affairs of Life: and that the Scri-
pture it felf frequently gives Examples of it, in bis
feeding the Ravens, taking care of the Sparrows,
clothing the Grafs of the Field, numbring the
Hairs of our Head, ^c. So that Infinite is not li-
mited or ty'd up, to or from any degree of afting.
Nor is there anything great, or any thing fmall, but
as God is feen in his leaffc Creatures, Infefc, Mites,
and the likej fo he is a6tive in the moft trifling
Event : Nor does that Providence, who yet pro-
tefts us in, and delivers us from Danger, always a£t
alike, but as the Sovereignty of his Actings is not
to be difpuced, fo neither is his Wifdom impeach'd
by fuffering Evil to fall upon Man, which the
leafl hint from his Light might have guided him
to prevent.
I THINK this is the utmofl that can be faid in
the Cafe, ai:fd yet it does not reach us at all 5
for this is not the meaning of my Objeftion, no,
nor is it the Subftance of it 5 I am not fpeaking of
Providence concerning it felf in the Care of its
Creatures, I acknowledge all that s but then this Pro-
vidence a£ls in its own Way, and by its own invifi-
ble Operations 5 nor is. there any occafion for the
Agency of fuch extraordinary Inflruments, and
therefore it may be, that Angels are never fent as
J ExprefTes upon fuch Things.
The King or Government of a Nation may in-
fluence the whole Body of the People, at what-
ever Diflance, by the Power of his Laws, direding
.,the Magiftrates^ and the Inferior Officers, to aft in
the
of APPARITIONS. 37
the Name of the Supreme > and this is done with-
out any Step out of the ordinary way of the Admi-
niilration. But if any extraordinary Occafion re-
quire, then a MefTenger is difpatch'd with particu-
lar Inftruftions, and fpecial Power, as the particular
Cafe may require.
So Providence,(which is, in a word, the admini-
flration of Heaven's Government in the World)
a6i:s in its ordinary Courfe, and in the ufual Way,
with an univerfal Influence upon all Things, and
nothing is below its Concern j but when extraordi-
nary Things prefent, then the particular exprefs
MelTengers from Heaven, {viz. the Angels) Tre fent
with Inflrudtions on that particular Affair which
they are difpatch'd about, and no other. And I may
venture to fay, thefe are never fent upon Trifles,
never fent but on extraordinary Occafions, and to
execute fome Ipecial Commiffions and this comes
diredtly to the Cafe in hand.
I N the next Place I demand, when cou'd it be
faid, or what Example can be given, where an
Angel from Heaven has been fent to give any par-
ticular Perfon Notice of approaching Dangers, and
at the fame time left the Micid unalarm'd, and in a
ftate of Indolence, not capable of rouzing it felf
up to fhun and avoid the Danger threaten'd, or
without Diredtion and Afliftance to prevent or ef-
c^pe it 5 this is what I alledge is unworthy of the
Divine Wifdom and Goodnefs.
Look into all the MefTages or Notices that have
been given from Heaven on fuch Occafions, in all
the Hiftories of the Scripture, or almoU elfewhere,
and you will fee the difference evidently. Take a few
for Example.
Two Angels are fent to Sodomj not only to de- .
ftroy the City for its Wickednefs, but to fave Lot,
Well, they come to him, they tell him what they
are about to do, and that they are fent to do itj
D 5
namely.
3 8 The Hiftory and Reality
namely, to burn the City. This might have been
enough J
and perhaps, had it been notic'd to him by
the Spirits I am fpeaking of, this had been all 5 and
if Lot had not taken their kind Information, it had
been his own Faulty nay, as it was, the Text fays.
Lot lingered, and 'tis plain he left the City with a
kind of Relu£tance.
But the kind Mcflengers do not fatisfie them-
felves with giving him the Warning, but they roufe
up his Indolence. See Gen.xix. 12. Hafi thou any
Jjere ? any that thou haft a Refpedt for, or Interefl
in, bring them out of this Place, ver. 13. We will
deflroy this Place. There's a hint of the Danger
approaching, and which is a wife Dire6l:ion what
to do, but this does not fatisfie; the Man is
not barely caution'd, and dire6bed, but he is to be
fav'dj and therefore the beneficept Hand is not
content to allarm and counfel him 5 bur, vcr. if.
When the Morning arofe they haflen^d L o t 5 they
jftirred up his unconcern'd Temper, Arise, left
thou be confuni'd in the Iniquity of the City ; and even
this being not enough, for Lot linger'd ftill,and, as
Ifaidjfeem'd loth to leave the Places they as it were
dragg'd him out 5 ver. 16. they laid hold of his
Hand, and upon the Hand of his Wife, and upon
the Hand of his two Daughters, and brought him
forth, and fet him without the City 5 and what is
the reafon of all this ? the Words are exprefs, the
Lord being merciful to him.
The reft of the Story is well known; when
they had brought him forth, they let him know he
would not be fafe even there 5 but adds, Efcape
for thy Life, look not behind thee ; Nay, he tells
him whither he fliould go, 'ver. 17. Efcape to the
; Mountain left thou be confum'd. Here was a Mef-
fage like a Work of Heaven.; here was the War-
ning of Danger, and Directions to take proper
Meafures for Deliverance, and thofe Meafures poin-
ted
of APPARITIONS. 3^
ted out even to the very Place where he fliould be
iafe.
Take another Place exa£tly like this, Matt,
ii. 13. An Angel is Tent to Jofejph in a Drejtm, to
warn him of the Danger attending the Holy Infant^
then in the Virgin Mother's Arms : the Words are
cxprefs y Herod will feek the young Child to deftroy
him : Does the blefled Notice leave Jofeph to ileep
on, to fay 'tis nothing but a Dream ? I don't fee
any Danger, I believe there's nothing in it 5 as is
our Language often on fuch Occafions. No, no 5
This Meffage was frorfi Heaven, who never gives fuch
Notice of Evil, and then leaves us unallarm'd, undi-
refted, fupine and eafie, 'till it falls upon us without
Remedy} the Angel adds prefently. Arise and
take the young Child and his Mother, and flee into
^gypt, and be thou there ^till I bring thee Word.
Thus you fee the Nature of the Divine Pro-
ceedings, the efFe&ual manner of Notices from
Heaven 5 the Danger is told, and then the Way to
avoid iti and always with a hailing Allarm, Up,
get thee out of the Cityj Arife, flee into jEgypt^
and the like.
A N o T H E R is in the Story of Peter in the Prifon
an Angel is fent to deliver him, ^i^jxii. and what does
the Angel do ? a Light fhin'd in the Prifon, and he
fmote him on the Side 5 this was to awaken and
alarm hiraj this, and a Light to fhow him the
Way, was fufficienc to have put him upon trying
to efcape. But the Angel did not come fo far to
do his Work by Halves, but having awak'd him
he goes on with his Work, and to perfc61: his De-
liverance J Arise qv i c k l y Peter^ and rais'd
him up, and then made the Chains fall off from his
Hands.
Nor yet had he done 5 gird thy felf^ fays the
Angel, and bind on thy Sandqls^ or as we would fay,
put on your Shoes: ftill Peter was at a lofs what to
D 4 do 5
40 ^ ^fhf Hiftorj and Realily
ddj th^n the Angel adds, cafi thy Garment ahout
ihee^ and follow me. Then he leads him through all
the Wards, and opens the Iron Gate for him, and
never left him 'till he had: brought him out into the
Street 5 nay, through one Street, that the Keepers
fhould not know which way to purfue him.
This was an Appearance or Apparition to the
Purpofej and fuch have been all thofe Tranfaftions
of Heaven, which have been under the Hands of
exprefe Meflengers. You fee all thefe three were
done by Angels fent on purpqfe } Peter exprefles it
in (b mzny Words, Afts xii. ii. Now I know of a
furety^ that the Lord has fent his Angela and hatb
delivered me.
Now let us fee how it has far'd with thofe who
have receiv'd Notices of approaching Danger from
the invifible World, by the Hands of other Mef-
fengers.
JULIUS CjESJR had feveral Hints given him
of his approaching Fate j one particular Southfayer
pointed out the very Day to him, namely, the Ides of
March^ but he had no Power to avoid his Fate.
The kind Spirit that foreboded, and gave hints to
him, that he was in Danger, as if contented with
having done his part, left him to be murther'd. No
Affiftance given him to rouze up his Spirits to take
the Alarm : He is not led by the Hand, and told)
go not into the Senate Houfe^ as was done for Lot-^
efcape for thy Life, The kind Monitor does not
name the Traytors and AlTaflinators to him, and fay
Brutus^ and Caffius^ Cafca^ and others, wait there to
kill you 5 as the Angel to Jofeph^ Herod will feek the
young Child to deftroy him.
And on the other fide, C^y^r,bold and unalarm'd,
indolent, and having things not fufficiently explain'd
to him 5 (and the good Spirit, as may be fuppos'd,
^able to do no more for him j) goes on, enters the
iScnate Houfc, mocks the Southfayer, and tells him
the
of APPARITIONS. ^^
the Ides of March are eome^ who iharply returned.
But they are not pafi. In a word, neglefting his
own Safety, and wanting a complcat Information,
he goes into the Senate, and is murther'd.
JVL IAN iht Apoftate is another Example:
He had a thoufand ill Omens, as they call'd them,
which attended him at and before his undertaking
the Perjian War 5 fuch as the dying of the Conful
yulianus o£ his own Name, the burning of the Tem*
pie oi jdpollOy and feveral other Accidents j and th6*
he was the moft fuperflitious of all the Heacheri
Emperors that were before him, and fent to all the
Oracles, to all the Augurs and Southfayers he could
hear of, infomuch that the Citizens of Antioch made
a Jeft of him for it) Yet he was fo blinded by his
Flatterers, or deluded by the Priefts, who conftrued
the worft and moft portentous things, to mean the
beft Events 5 or, which is beyond it all, by the fu*
perior Decree of an appointed Vengeance j that he
went on and was kiU'd in the very beginning of
the War 3 the firft Battel with the Perfians carried
him off.
I MIGHT multiply Examples of the like kind,
even on both fides, and cfpecially on the laftj but
'lis fufficienti our own Experience will confirm it
fecret Notices are daily given us of capital Dangers
attending, and yet how do the moft vigilant Ob-
fervers of thofe Signals, and the moft eminent O-
men- Hunters, even after thofe Notices, fit ftill,
and grow indolent? or elfe, amaz'd and bewilder'd,
they fay, I know there's fomething a coming to me,
fome Mifchief attends me, I have plain Notice of itj
but I don't know what it is, I can't tell what to do j
I can do nothing to avoid or prevent it. And thus
they fall into the Pit, as we may fay, with their Eyes
open, and va fpight of the kind Spirit's beneficent
Warning.
Wh a t
4^ The Hijiory and Reality
What can this be ? but bccaufe the Spirit, tho'
really kind and beneficent, yet limited and impo-
tent in Power, was able to do no more than to give
the Hint, leaving the Perfori to his own Prudence
to guard and diredt himfelf?
1 MIGHT add here what 'tis rational enough to
fuggefl, mz. that Heaven in its infinite Wifdom
and Goodnefs may have appointed thefe Good
Spirits to give fuch Notices, yet allowing them
to do no more, that the Mind of Man being duly
alarm'd at approaching Evil, and believing fome-
thing very fatal to him is at Hand j but feeing no
kind Being diredling what Methods to take for his
Deliverance, or for efcaping the impending Mif-
chief, fhould turn his Eyes (at lead) a little upwards,
and call for Direftion and Council from that Hand,
who alone can both dire6t and deliver.
But hold! whither am I going? This looks
like Religion, and we muft not talk a Word of
that, if we expert to be agreeable. Unhappy Times!
where to be ferious, is to be dull and grave, and
confequently to write without Spirit. We muft
talk politely, not religioufly -,
we may {how the
Scholar, but muft not fhow a Word of the Chri-
ftianj fo we may quote prophane Hiftory, but not
facred 5 and a Story out of Lucan or Plutarch^ "fully
or Virgil will go down, but not a Word out of
Mofes or Jojhua.
Well, v/e muft comply however 5 the Humour
of the Day muft prevail j and a^ there is no inftru-
6ling you without pleafing you, and no pleafing
you but in your own Way, we muft go on in that
Way J the Underftanding muft be refined by Alle-
gory and Enigma 5 you muft fee the Sun through
the Cloud, and relifti Light by the help of Dark-
nefsj the Tafte muft be redify'd by Salts, the Ap-
petite whetted by Bitters 5 in a word, the Manners
muft be reformed in Mafquerade, Devotion quick-
cn'd
k
of APPARITION S.
43
cn'd by the Stage not the Pulpit, and Wit be
brightcn'd by Satyrs upon Senfe.
This Hypothefis, of a new fuppos'd Clafs of
Spirits, would lead me into a great many ufeful
Speculations > and I might remark with great Ad-
vantages from it, upon the general Indolence, which
it is evident has fo fatally pofTefs'd our Men of Wit
in this Age. To fee a Fool, a Fop, believe himfelf
infpir'd, a Fellow that waflies his Hands fifty times
a-day, but if he would be truly cleanly, Ihould
have his Brains taken out and wafh'd, his Scull
Trapan'd, and plac'd with the hind- fide before,
that his Underftanding, which Nature plac'd by
Miftake, with the Bottom upward, may be fee
right, and his Memory plac'd in a right Pofition 5
To this unfcrew'd Engine talk of Spirits, and of
the invifible World, and of his converfing with
unembodied Soul, when he has hardly Brains to
converfe with any thing but a Pack of Hounds,
and owes it only to his being a Fool, that he does
not converfe with the Devil! who if he has any
Spirit about him, it muft be one of thefe indolent
Angels I fpeak of} and if he has not been lifted a-
mong the Infernals, it has not been for want of
Wiekednefs, but for want of Wit.
I don't wonder fuch as thefe go a mobbing a-
mong thofe mcaneft of mad Things call'd Free"
Mafons > rough Cheats, and confefs'd Delufions
are the fitteft things to amufe them. They are like
thofe foolifii Fi'fii that are caught in large Nets,
that might get out at every Square of the Mafii,
but hang by the Gills upon the meer Thread, and
chufe to hamper and tangle thcmfelves, when there
is no occafion for it, and are taken even in thofe
Snares that are not laid for them.
CHAP.
The Hifiory and Reality
CHAP. V.
Of the Appearance of departed Unembo^
died Soul,
I
NOW come to the main and moft difputed
Part of fhadowy Appearance, viz, the Appari-^
lion of Unembodied Soul.
I T is a material Difficulty here, and ought to be
confider'd with the utmoft Plainnefs, (viz.) what
we mean by Unembodied Soul-, whether we under-
iland Souls which have been encas'd in Flefli, but be-
ing unhous'd are now moving about, in what State
we know not, and are to be fpoken of as in their
feparate Capacity: Or whether there is any fuch
thing as a Mafs of Soul, as a learned but pretty
much inconfiftent Writer calls it, which waits to
be embodied, as thefuperior Difpofer of that Affair,
(be that who or what he pleafes) may dire6b.
T H I s I confefs is to me fomething unintelligi-
ble, looks a little Platonick^ and as if it were a-kin
to the Tranfmigration-Whimfie of the Ancients 5
but if they would found it upon any thing rational,
it mufl be upon the Suggeftion mentioned above,
viz. of a middle Clafs of Spirit, neither Angclick-
Heavenly, or Angelick- Infernal : But Spirits inha-
biting the invifible Spaces, and allow'd to a£t and
appear here, under exprefs and greatly llrain'd Li-
mitations, fuch as are already defcrib'd, and of which
much more may (till be faid.
But that I may clear up your Doubt as to the
Part I am upon, I have added at the Head of this
Seftion, the Word Departed^ to intimate to you,
that I am Orthodox in my Notion j that I am none
of the Sed of Soul- Sleepers, or for imprifoning
Souls
of APPARITIONS. 4f
Souls in a Limhus of the Ancients $ but that, in i.
few Words, by the Appearance of Souls Unembo-
died, I mean fuch as having been embodied or im-
prifon'd in Fleih, are difcharg'd from that Confine-
ment, or as I call it unhous'd and turn'd out of
PofTefSon. For I cannot agree that the Soul is in
the Body, as in a Prifon 5 but rather that, like a rich
Nobleman, he is pleas'd to inhabit a fine Country
Seat or Palace of his own Building, where he
refolves to live and enjoy himfelf, and does fo, 'till by
the Fate of things his fine Palace being over-turn'd,
whether by an Earthquake or otherwife, is bury'd
in its own Ruins, and the noble Owner turn'd out
of Pofleflion, without a Houfe.
This Soul, we are told, and I concur in the O-
pinion, has fometimes made a Tour back into this
World 5 whether Earth, or the Atmofphere of the
Earth, call it where you will, andexprefsithowyou
will, it matters not much: Whence it comes, how far
the Journey, how, and why it came hither, and a-
bovc all, how it goes back again, and what thofe
various Apparitions are which counterfeit thefc
Spirits: enquire within, and you fhall know
farther.
That the Unembodied Souls of Men Dead,
as we fay Departed, have appeared, we have af-
firm'd from the Authority of the Scripture 5 which
I muft allow to be an authentick Document, what-
ever the Reader may pleafe to do; 'till a Hiftory
more authentick, and of better Authority may be
produc'd in the Room of it.
As to the Appearance of Samuel^ rais'd by the
Witch, I defpife it, as it is ofJer'd in the Capacity
of a Soul, much more as the Unembodied Soul of
Samuel i which tho' it might have been caus'd to
appear, as the Sovereign of all Spirits, with whom
the Soul of Samuel is at Reft, had thought fit ; yet
could no more be fummon'd from that Reft, by
the
4(J The Hijlory and Reality
the Conjuration of an old Witch, than the Devil
could fetch it out of Heaven by Force. Nor was it
likely that God, who refus'd fo much as to fpeakto that
abandon'd Prince, whom he had fo righteoufly re-
jefted, and that would anfwer him neither by tfrim^
or by fhummimy that would neither hear his Prayer,
or accept his Offering, would hear a Witch, a
Creature likewife fentenc'd to Death by his own
righteous Law, and fend Samuel at her Infernal
Paw-wawing from Heaven, to tell Saul that to-
morrow he fliould be cut in Pieces by the Phili-
ftines'y there feems to be no Confiitency at all
in it, no, none at all.
The Appearance of the Thing call'd Samuel^
was, in my Opinion, neither more or lefs than a
Phantafm or Spedre, which (as the Devil is allow'd
to do) might perfonate the old departed Prophet,
and who, at the Witch's Summons, and by Hea-
ven's Permiflion, came up to pronounce the dread-
ful Sentence upon Saul^ and let him fee what was
the Effedt of his forfaking God, and rejefting his
Prophet Samuel. And thus it might be allow'd alfo
to fpeak in the firft Perfon of the Prophet, as it
didj nor do 1 fay, or think, as fome do, that it was
the Devil in Samuel's Likenefsj if it had, 'tis not
likely the old Woman would have been fo frighted
as to cry out, feeing fhe was better acquainted
with the Devil, than co be furpriz'd, if it had been
her old Familiar.
But fhe faw fomething flie did not cxped, and
perhaps had never feen before j for fhe tells the
King, fhe faw Gods afcending out of the Earth
by which I cannot but underftand, fhe faw fome
of thofe Spirits which I have mention'd, which
are not Infernal, and who might forefee what the
Devil himfelf cannot 5 for I have no reafon to be-
lieve that Satan knows any thing of Futurity.
If
of APPARITIONS. 47
I Fit be asked here, by what Authority the Witch
could bring up one even of thefc Spirits 5 that in-
deed may be difficult to anfwer, other than thus,
that it might be as Balaam was over-rul'd to blefs,
when he intended to curfe j and that at her Call,
and to pronounce the approaching Fate of Saul^
and IJrael V7ith him, Ihc might be over-rul'd, andfo
caird up, or call'd in, a good Spirit inftead of the
Devil.
A s for the Speftre's fpeaking in the Name of
Samuel in the Scripture, and the Text reprefen-
ting it as if it were really Samuel himfelf, i Sam.
xxviii. If. Jnd S^v[m€[ /aid to Saul, why haft thou
difquieted me^ to bring me up ? I take it to be an Ex-
-prQ&on ad Hominem^ to the common Underftanding,
and to be underftood as all Allegorick or Figurative
Expreffions are underftood 5 and it no more proves
that it was Samuel^ and is no more to be taken lit-
terally, than the other Words in the fame Verfc
are to be litterally underftood.
1 JVHT haft thou difquieted me ? as if it was in
SauVs Power, by the Conjurations of an ab-
horr'd condemn'd Limb of the Devil^ a profcrib'd
Witch, to difquiet the departed Soul of Samuel \
the Meaning is no more than this, What is your Bu-
finefs with me, what do you trouble me for? You
that defpifed me, and afted contrary to all my Di-
redtions, and would go on in your Perverfenefs in
fpite of me, and of all I could fay to you 5 what
do you come to me for, now I am dead ^.
2. TO bring me up? intimating that Samuel was
below, or was called ab Inferis, which is contrary
to Reafon as well as Religion, and neither confifts
either with our Notion, or any body's elfe, except it be
the Soul-fleepers, who tell us, the Soul fleeps with
the Body in the Grave 'till the Refurreftion 5 and if
fo, then muft the old Woman have had Power to
awake him whenever fiie plea&'d.
f Upon
48 The Mifiory and Reality
tf" p o N the whole, ic feems this Woman, was a
Witch of fome Eminency, and had more than or-
dinary Power in her way. For when Saul applies
to her, fhe asks him^ Whom {hall I bring up? inti-
mating that fhe was able to bring up who fhe
would, either from Heaven or Hell,
This Boldnefs plainly infers, that fhe had no
Power at all, but thisj that being a Witch, and one
that had a Familiar Spirit^ fhe could caufe her Familiar
or Devil, call it what we will, to appear and perfonate
who fhe pleased to name. For why fhould not the
Den)il be as able to drefs himfelf up like one dead
Perfon, as another ? and why not appear as well in
the Shape of a dead Man, as of a living One?
S o that to me there is no more Difficulty in his
Dreffing himfelf like Samuelythan there was in calling
himfelf fo^ or than fpcaking in the firfl Perfon of
Samuel^Tis above 5 Why difquiet Me, and why bring
ME up ? All that feems inexplicable in it is, how he
fhould be able to tell Saul what fhould happen,
(viz.) that God would deliver Ifrael into the
Hands of the Philifiines^ and him (Saul) with them,
and that to-morrow he fhould be with him 5 that is,
among the Dead, fhould be killed in the Battel.
This indeed has fomething difficult in it, becaufe
the Devil is not allow'd to be a Prophet, or able to
predift what is to come. But thefe things may be
all anfwer'd by the Story of Balaam^ where the
wicked Creature, tho' a Wizard, and a Conjurer,
yet was dire6ted, not only to blefs Ifrael in fpite
of all the Gifts and Rewards that the King o^ Moab
oflFer'd him, but was enabled to prophefy of Chrift,
and foretel the glorious appearing of the Meffiah
Numb. xxiv. 17. Ipallfee him but not now, IJhall
bohold him but not nigh j 'There Jhall come a Star out
of Jacob, and a Sct^iQX fhall arife out <?/ Ifrael 5 and
again, out of Jacob fhall come he that Jhall have
Dominion. This was a plain and dired Prophecy
of
of APPARITIONS. 49
of Chrift, who is call'd in the Revelations the
Morning-Star 5 and yet this Balaam was a Witch,
a Dealer with an Evil Spirit, and receiv'd the Wages
of Unrighteoufnefs.
The next Teftimony which we find in facred
Hiftory, of the Reahty of Apparitions, as it refpefts
the Souls of departed Perfons, is the Appearance of
Mofes and EUas with Jefus Chriji in the Mount, at
his Transfiguration 5 they not only were there, really
and perfonally, in their Habits, and fo as to be known
to the Difciples, but they appeared talking with
Chrillj fo that it was a Perfe<5b and Compleat Ap-
parition, (viz,) the particular Pcrfons appearing, and
known by the Perfons to whom they appeared.
Mat. xvii. 3. And in another Place, the manner of
the Apparition is defcrib'd, as alfo what they talk*d
of, Luke ix. 38. Who appeared in Glory^ and talked
of his Deceafe^ which he Jhould accomplijh in Jeru-
falem.
This is fo plain and unqueftionable an Appear^
ance of departed Souls, that they who difpute it,
muft not only doubt of the Divinity of Scripture,
but muft difpute its being an authentick Hiftory j
which its Enemies will hardly deny.
WE have yet another Teftimony, and this is as
pofitive and exprefs as the reft 3 Matth. xxvii. fz.
And the Graves were opened^ and many of the Bodies
of the Saints which Jlept arose, and came out of the
Graves after his RefurreBion^ and went into the holy
CityJ
and appeared unto many.
This is a remarkable Place, and Vv^^ould admit of
a long Expofitionj but I muft not preach, and if I
might, I am no Annotator 5 as far as it is to my
prefent Purpofe, the Bodies arofe^ that was extraor-
dinary j but that their Souls were alfo with their
Bodies, is not to be douted, at leaft by me 5 for I
have no Notion of the Body walking about without:
the Soul, nor do we cyer read of bodily Apparitions.
E An
J o The Hiftory and Reality
A N Apparition is vulgarly call'd by us a Ghofl,
by our Northern People a Gheji-y now the Ghoft is
a Spirit, and the Apparition of a Spirit has fome
Senfe in itj the Spirits alfoafTuming a Shape or Body,
whether Real, or in Appearance only, has fomething
in it to be talk'd about 5 but the Apparitions of
Body, moving, appearing, walking, or whatever we
nnaycall it, without Soul or Spirit, is what was ne-
ver heard of, and fcarce ever fuggefted.
Ft may be obferv'd, that thofe Apparitions quo-
ted from the Scripture, are not Apparitions in Vifi-
on y Dreams in the Night, or fuppofed Appearances
only, but plain, open, day-light Vidonsj the for-
mer would not be to my purpofc at all. Thefe
were Apparitions that were fpoken to, and con-
verfed with 5 and this is a Proof of what I al-
ledge, viz. that Spirits Unembodied may appear,
may reafTume humane Shape, their own former
Likenefs, or any other, and may fhovv themfelves
to the World, or to as many Perfons as they pleafe.
The Difficulties which attend this are not a few,
tho' none of them dcllroy the thing it felf; as (i.)
Whether the Souls of good or bad People unembo-
died, are really in a State or Condition for fuch an
Appearance? and whether it confifts with the juft
Notions we ought to have of the unalterable State?
1 mean fuch Notions as conform to the Scripture,
which, if the Parable of the rich Man and Lazarus
be a juil Reprefentation of it, fcems impoffible to
be, except on fuch an extraordinary Occafion as
that of our Saviour's Transfiguration and Refur-
re^tion 5 that is, by Miracle.
L^Z^RUS^hjs the Text, was, upon his Death,
carried by the Angels into AbrahanC^ Bofom > the
rich Man died, and in Hell he lift up his Eyes.
That this is fuppos'd to be immediately, is evident,
becaufe the rich Man fpeaks of his Brethren that
were then alive: If he was not carried thither im-
mediately,
of APPARITION S. ji
mediately, he would certainly not have been carried
there at all 'till after the Great Audits fo that ic
was plain he was there prefently after his Death i
and that Lazarus was carried immediately to Hea-
ven is evident alfo j becaufe the rich Man is brought
in feeing him there, and defiring he may be fent
to him.
T o fay this is but a Parable, is to fay what may
be granted without Prejudice to the Point in hand*
For as it is a Parable, it would not have been ap-
pofite, if it had not reprefented things as they were
really to be 5 it would have been a Delufion, and
brought to deceive j whereas it is a Parable of our
Lord's own bringing, and all thofe Parables that
Chriit uttered, were the moft perfect Reprefentati-
ons and Illuftrations of the things which they were
brought to fet forth 5 nor is any one of them lame
in their Allufions, but infl:ru6tive in every Articlcf
as the Parable of the Prodigal Son, for Example,
and the Parable of the King making a Marriage for
his Son, and fo of the refl. And why muft this a-*
lone be lame, and unapt for the purpofe ?
I F then this Parable is fuited to reprefent the State
of the Souls of the Departed, thofe Souls then can no
way be concern'd in the Apparitions which we are
fpeaking of5 except as is before excepted, mz. oil
fuch extraordinary Occafions, as that of our Savi=*
our above muft be acknowledg'd to be.
If then, neither the Souls or Spirits oPtheBlef-
fed or the Curfed, the Happy or Miferable, the
Sav'd or the Condcmn'd, are concern'd in thoie
Appearances, who then are thefe Inhabitants of the
invifible World ? What are they that conftitute and
poflefs this World of Spirits, Xo much talk'd of?
And if the immenfe Spaces are taken up, if they
are peopled by any fpirituous Creatures, if any
thing but Stars and Planets range through the
€m^ty Place^ as Job calls it. Job xxvi. 7. what are
E i theyj
The Hijiory and Reality
they, and what are the Spirits that inhabit thofe
Worlds?
There muft certainly be a World of Spirits,
or of Spirit, from A^'hence we receive the frequent
Vifits in Publick, and the frequent Notices in Pri-
vate, which are fo perceptible to us, and which we
arc fo uneafy about : if they are neither good Spirits
or bad, if they have neither Power to do us Good
or Hurt, as I fee a great deal of Reafon to believe,
then we have not fo much Reafon to be terrified
about them as we generally are : but of that here-
after.
A s to the Locality of the Devil^ and his Ap-
pearance, that indeed is another Article, and he
may, as is [aid already^ cover himfelf with what
Shapes, human or brutal, he pleafes > but then
this would bring all Apparition to be by the Ap-
pearance of the Deinl^ and all the Empire of the
Air to be poflefs'd by him j which I cannot grant
Particularly, becaufe, as I faid, fome of thcfc
Apparitions come of good Errands, to prevent Mif-
chief, to prote6t Innocence and Virtue, and to dif-
cover Injury, Injuftice and Opprcffioni all which
are things very much out of the Devirs way, re-
mote from his Pra6lice, and much more remote
from his DcCign: The Spirits I fpeakofmuft be of a
higher Original 5 they muft be Heaven-born, of the
glorious Original of angelick Species; and as all
things are known by their Confequences, fo they
are known by their Aftingsj they do Heaven's
Work, are under his immediate Government and
Dirc6lion, and are honoured with his fpecial Com-
miflion; they are employed in his immediate Bufi-
nefs, namely, the common Good of his Creature
Man : They that do Good, demonftrate in the beft
manner that they are good.
So that every way we fhould meet with fome
Difficulty in this Cafe, unkfs folv'd, as I faid before,
by
of APPARITIONS. 53
by the denominating another Clafs of Spirits nei-
ther immediately celeftial, or at all infernal 5 neither
iCmbodied, or that have been embodied, or that ihall
ever be embodied.
It cannot be expefted I fhould defcribewhat thefe
are, and in what Condition; it is fufficientthat I only
fay Such may be there, and that they may be fuch
as he thinks good to place there who made that
empty Place j I may as well ask (he Enquirer '
what fort of Inhabitants they are who pof^
fefs the Moon or any of the Planets, and whether
they dwell in a State of Innocence, or have con-
traAed Guilt ; and if the latter, whether there is a
glorious Eftablifhment of Redemption, and a Co-
venant of Life granted for them, as there is here,
by the Purchace and Merit of a Saviour ?
It is no fair Queftion to ask me a Demonftra-
tion for an Hypothejis > or is it reafonable to tell mc
they will not believe it, becaufe I cannot prove the
Affirmative of what I do not affirm. I advance
the Probability, and fay, that it is the more
Probable, becaufe (as they fay of the new Philo-
fophy) by this we can folve feveral other Phseno-
mena^ which we cannot otherwife account for 5 and
I alledge it is much more probable and more ratio-
nal to luggeft it, than it is that the Planets fliould
be inhabited, for which 'tis certain that God muft
have created a new Species of Creatures, or that none
can dwell there.
The Wafte or the empty Space, as Joh calls
ity is full of Spirits; I believe that may be taken
/or granted : they are placed there, if they are there^
by the powerful Hand of the Creator : there is no
Philofophy can be pleaded againft the Place being
habitable; whereas the Objc6tions againft the Pla-
nets being habitable arc unanfwerable, but by the
Abfurdity of bringing Almighty Power in to create
feveral new Species of Creatures, feme to live in
E 3
Fire,
J 4 The Hifiory and Reality
Fire, fome in Froft, fome in all Darknefs and Ice,
fome in boiling Waters and fcalding Air.
The Inhabitants which I fuggeft are created
for the Regions of the invifible World, are Spi-
rits, invifible Subftances, Bodies without Body,
fuch as are proper for the Expanfe in which they
live, and eligible for us to conceive of 5 and tho'
we cannot grafp a Spirit with our Hands, feel it
and fee it, yet we can in fome manner conceive of
it. But^for the planetary Inhabitants, we cannot ac-
count for them to our felves or any one elfe, nor
can we conceive any thing of them that we can fay
is probable or rational
I s it at all irrational to fuppofe, or improbable
to be, that God may have made a Degree of An^
gels or of miniftring Spirits (whether they are
angelick, or of other Species is not for us to de-
termine) who may be of a differing Degree, ap^
pointed for a differing Refidence, and to different
Employments from the fupcrior Angels, for a
Seafon ?
As there are different Degrees of Glory in Hea^
ven, Stars of different Magnitude and Luftre in
the Firmament, fo may there not be Angels or
Spirits of differing Quality and Degrees of Power
and Favour ? why elfe arc they called 'Thrones^ and
Dominiom^ Principalities^ and Powers ? they are all
Titles of Honour given to the Angels in the Scrips
ture, Eph, i. 21. and vi. 11. If there be feveral
Titles, there muft be feveral Degrees.
There can be no Superior, if there are no In-
ferior; what can we underftand by Thrones and
Principalities in Heaven, but Degrees of Angels.^
Befides, what do we underftand by Jngels^nd Arch'
^ngels? I ^hejf. iv. \6. jhall defcend with the Voice of
an Arch'Angel: and again, 'Jude ver. 3. Michael the
^r^h'AngeL
If
of APPARITIO JS S. 5j
If there are Angels which are not Arch-An-
gels, but of an inferior Degree 5 fo there may
be alfo different Degrees among the Angels
which are not Arch- Angels 5 and fome of thefe
may be appointed their Refidence in the Air or At-
mofphere of this World, (Earth) or within the
Compafs of this particular Solar Syftem, (for I al-
low there may be feveral like Syftems)
Thus thofe that will fuppofe thefe Appear-
ances to be of none but Angels, I fliall jjpt con-
rend at all with them ; I exclude no Species of
Spirits, but the departed unembodied Souls of Men
1 have allowed Apparitions to the Devil himfelf
upon his own wicked and proper Occafions. I only
cannot grant, that becaufe God can, therefore he
does employ him, upon his own gracious and bene-
ficent Orders to his Creature 5 This muft at lead
feem to bring Providence to a Neceflity of em-
ploying him for want of other Officers, which I
think is highly detra6ting, and difhonouring of the
divine Majefty, as if he was obliged to employ the
Devil^ as we fay, for want of a Better.
But excluding Satan, I "think God does not
want Agents j he has apparently pofled an Army
of miniflring Spirits, call them Angels if you will,
or what elfe you pleafe > I fay, pofted them round
this Convex^ this Globe the Earth, to be ready at
all Events, to execute his Orders and to do his Will,
referving flill to himfelf to fend exprefs MefTengers
of a fuperior Rank on extraordinary Occafions.
I MAKE no queftion but thefe are the Angels
which carried away Lazarus into Abraham's Bofom,
I mean which are fuppofed to do fo.
I DOUBT not, thefe are the Angels of which
Chrifl fays, his Father, if he had pray'd, would have
fcnt hxm more than twelve Legions for his Guard.
To fay it is not to be expe6bed God {hould
caufe fuch an Hoft of glorious Spirits to attend on
E 4 this
j^ The Hifiory and Reality
this little Point the Earth, and this defpicable Species
called Man, would be but to oblige me to fay, What
may not God be fuppofed to do for that Creature
whom ht fo lov'd as to fend his only begotten Son to
redeem? So at Icaft thatQueftion is fully anfwer'd.
Now, thefe Spirits, let them be what they will,
and call them Angels if you pleafe, I conceive
thefe are they whofe Appearances give us fo much
Difficulty to folve : Thefe may, without any Abfur-
dity, Ije fuppofed capable of afluming Shape, con-
verfing with Mankind, either in the ordinary or
extraordinary Way, either by Voice and Sound,
tho' in Appearances and borrowed Shapes j or by
private Notices of things, Impulfes, Forebodings,
JMifgivings, and other imperceptible Communicar-
tions to the Minds of Men, as God their great
Employer may dire£l:.
Nor are thefe Notions of them at all abfurd or
inconceivable, tho* the Manner how they a6b may
not be underflood by us: 'Tis but Soul conver-
fing with Soul, Spirit communicating to Spirit,
one intelledual Being to another, and by fecrep
Conveyances, fuch as •Souls converfe by.
Neither is the Apparition of thefe Spirits
any Abfurdityj thefe may be intimate with us, ap-
pear to U5, be concerned about us, without any
thing unintelligible in it: Why may not one Spi-
rit be fo as well as another 5 and one Kind or Species
of Spirits as well as another ?
1 F thefe are innocent, good-meaning, and bene»
ficent Spirits, why may it not confilt with the
Wifdom and Goodnefs of God to fuffer fuch to be
converfant wjth Men, and to have Accefs to the
Spirits embodied 5 as well as to allow the Devil and
^vil Spirits to converfe fo among us to our Hurt?
guT let me give one Caution here, and enter
piy Proteft againlt the Power, or Pretences to the
ppwpri of raifingjor a? 'tis call'dj bringing up thefe
Spirit^
of A? P A KIT 10 N S. J J
Spirits. To call them, and fummon them up for In»
telligence of human Affairs, and this by Magick and
Conjurations, which we vulgarly and juflly enough
call the Black Art^ IcannotallowthisPart of Science
to have! any Influence upon, or Command over, any
good Spirit: But that, 2i'siht Witch o^ Endor obtain'd
of the Devil to perfonate the old Prophet Samuel^
and appear in his Shape, fpeak in his Name, and a6t
the Prophet in Mafquerade 5 fo thefe Men of Art
may bring the Devil to mimick a good Spirit, call
himfeif an Inhabitant of the World of Spirits, and
fo delude Mankind, as he does in almoft every thing
he fays to them> But he cannot really call up one
of thefe independent free Spirits, who are perfe6tly
out of his reach where-cver they are> and whole
angelick Nature places them above, not under
him, or at his Command.
S A T 4. N is a conquer'd, fubdu'd Enemy j and
thefe indeed were his Conquerors, and are flill
his Terror 5 He abhors them, and hates them, and
flees before them : And what it I fhould fay they
^vere placed in this Situation, (namely, in the in-
yifible Regions near and about this World) for
this very Reafon, viz. to keep under this Arch-
Enemy and Rebel? as a conquering Prince having
obtained a glorious Vi6tory over a powerful Re-^
bel, tho' he retires from the Country with his
Troops, the War being over, yet leaves a good
Body of Forces to keep the Peace of the Coun-
try, and to awe the Rebels from any farther Attempt,
Thus they are Guardian Angels really, and ia
the very Letter of it, without being oblig'd to at^
tend at every particular Man's Ear or Elbow.
Mankind are thus truly faid to be in the Hands
of God always 5 and Providence, which confbantly
ivorks by Means and Inftruments, has the Govern-
pient of the World aftually in his Adminiflration,
|ipt oply by Ijis infiiiiitp Power^ but bj^ immediare
5 8 The Hijiory and Reality
Deputation, and the fubdued Devil is a Prifoner
of War both chain'd and reftrain'd.
CHAP. VI.
Ofthe Manner How the Spirits of every Kind,
which can or do appear among us^ manage
their Appearance ; and How they proceed,
THE Poflibility being thus fettled, and it being
granted that Spirits, or detach'd Angels, do
converfe with Manldnd vifibly as well as invifibly,
and have Accefs to us, to our Souls as well as Bo-
dies, as well by fecret Communication, as by open
and publick Apparition; it remains to enquire into
the Manner how this Converfation is carried on.
I HAVE already entred my Proteft againfl all
tliofe Arts calPd Magical and Diabolic, by which
Man is made capable (at lead) of being Aggreflbr in
this Communication, that he can call up thefe Spi-
rits, or call 'em down rather, and begin the Con-
verfatioQ when he pleafes.
Whether by Compaft and fecret Hellifli
Familiarity with the Devil he may not obtain Leave
to ufe Satan with fuch Freedom, I will not deter-
mine; I doubt he may : for the Devil may depute
fuch and fuch Powers and Privileges to his Confe-
derates, as to his Honour in his great Wifdooi
fhall feem meet : But that he can empower them
to do the like with thofe good and beneficent
|
Spirits of the invifible World, who are (I have fup-
*
pos'd) Spirits, not Devils^ that I deny, nor do I fee
any Reafon t6 grant it.
I COME then to the Manner the Spirits, which
I would fuppofe may inhabit the utmoft Wafte,
are ^ble to correfpond with us : and firft, as Spirits
or
of A?P ARltlONS, 19
or Angels, call them as you will, they are to be fup-
pofed, like other Spirits, to have an extenfive
Knowledge, and a View of all created Subftances,
at leaft on this fide Heaven \ a vaft capacious Un-
derflanding, an unbounded Sight, a Liberty of Lo-
co-motion, paffing from one Region to another,
from one Planet to another 5 they are not congeal'd
by Cold, or calcin'd by Heat; that they are able
to exift in all Climates, even from Saturn to Mer-
cury \ that they may go and come, appear and dif-
appear, here or where elfe they pleafe j in a word,
that they are free Agents, as well in their Motions
as A6lings. Hence they are neceffarily to be fup-
pofed to know all things needful to he known, re-
lating to us, as well as to other things j that they
can take Cognizance of human Affairs, and that
not by Grant or Licenfe, or by fecond hand Infor-
mation from Hell, from the infernal Spirit, or any
other Place, but by their own angelick and fpiri-
tuous Penetration 5 and that they have no Depen-
dance upon Satan, or any Power or Perfon con--
cern'd with him 5 that they a6b alfo as Spirit on all
Occafions.
Tho' we fee nothing of them, they fee us 5 tho'
we know nothing of them, they know and arecon-
verfant about us, are capable of being affedted and
moved in our Behalf, and to concern themfelves for
our Good on many Accounts : Hence they often
give us Notices and Warnings of Evils attending
us, tho' they cannot afl: fo upon material Obje6ts,
as to interfere with our Affairs, over- rule our
Fate, or direft us how to avoid the Evils which
they forefee, or to embrace the Good which they
fee attending us; of which, and the Reafons of it, I
have fpoken already.
As they can thus communicate things to our
Imagination, fo we may fuppofe, that in Profecu^
jion of rtat beneficent; Qoncerq which they have
for
^o The Hiftory and Reality
for us, they can and frequently do affume human
Shape, and come to us, talk to us, and converfe
intimately with us in Apparition and by Voice,
"'
nay even in Dialogue, Queftion and Anfwer, as
they fee Occafion.
This converfing in Apparition, is what we call
IValking-j and when any fuch thing is feen, we fay
a Spirit walks^ or haunts fuch a Place ; and tho' this
is a mighty terrible thing in the vulgar Appearance,
and the People, when thefe things appear to
them, are apt to fay they fee the Devil -y
yet it is
very often a Miftake, and a very wide Miftake, as
appears by the Confequence.
I H A V E heard of a Man who travell'd four
Years thro' moft of the Northern Countries of
Europe with the Devily if all thofe Spedlres or Api-
paritions are Devils^ which I muft not grant > nor
was this Spe6tre fo infincere as to conceal it felf
all the while from him, but difcover'd to him that
he was but an Apparition, without Body, Subflance,
or any thing but Shape.
If the Account 1 have of this Apparition be
true, and I have had it by me many Years, he did
him Good, and not Hurt> he guided him thro' De-
farts and over Mountains, over frozen Lakes, and
little Seas cover'd with Snow; he diverted him
with Difcourfes of various Subjeds, always iffliing
for his Good, and for the Encreafe of Knowledge
He went with him over the Sea from Ireland to the
Coaft of Norway: He procur'd Winds for him,
without buying them of Witches and Laplanders-.
He did not raife Storms for him, becaufe being a
Traveller and upon a Voyage, he had no Occafion
of them; but he foretold Storms pundually and
exaftly, prevented the Ship's putt;ing out to Seg
when Storms were approaching; found the Ship's
Boat and Anchors, when the firfl was driven away
in the Nig^tj and the fecond w^igh'd and run a^
wajr
of APPARITIONS. 6i
•way with by the Norwegians in the Dark, the
Ship having been oWiged to flip and run up into
Harbour ; I fay, he found them, that is to fay,
directed the Seamen where to find them, and to
difcover the Thieves.
He did a thoufand things for him, and for his
Accommodation, in his Travels > he was acquainted
where-ever he came, and procured his Fellow-
Traveller Entertainment and good Ufage^ he
knew the Affairs of every Country, and the very
People too; he fpoke every Language, German^
Norfe OY Norway^ PoUJIj Frujfian^ Ruffian^ Hungarian^
^artarlan^ and 'Turkljb,
He paft Rivers without Bridges, tho' he would
never let his Fellow-Traveller fee him do that, or
help him to do it; nor would he let him fee him
mount into the Air upon any occafion whatever ;but
would fet him in his Way, give him very faithful
Dire6tions how to find the Places he was going to^
and then flrike ofF fome other Way, as if he had
Bufinefs at this or that Place, and would not fail to
meet him again pundually at the place he appoint-
ed.
Sometimes he would be feen at a diftance a
Mile or more, to-day on his right, to-morrow on
his left Hand, and keeping even pace with him,
come into the fame Village or Town where he
lodg'd, and take up as it were at another Inn j bun
if he enquir'd for him in the Morning he was al-
ways gone, and the People knew nothing of him,
except that they juft faw fuch a Man the Evening
before, but that he did not flay.
When he had travelled thus with him from
Ireland^ as I faid, to the Coafl of Norway^ where
they were driven in by Storm j and after that by Sea
round the faid Coafl of Norway to Gotfenburgh^wherc
they put in again by contrary Winds, he perfuaded
the Traveller not to go any farther in that Ship.
The
€i The Hijlory and Reality
The Traveller being Bound with the Veflel to
Dantzick^ and hariag a confidcrable Quantity of
Goods on Board, would by no means be prevail'd
with to quit the Ship: His Fellow-Traveller told
him he had the Second-fight^and that he was aflur'd
the Ship ihould never come to DantzicL However
the Traveller not giving fo much Credit to him as
that required, and not knowing any thing of him at
that time, but that he was a ftrange, intelligent,' fore-
feeing Man (as he call'd him) would continue the
Voyage j whereupon the St3*anger left him, and
the Ship purfuing the Voyage was furpriz'd with
another dangerous Storm 5 I fay another, becaufe
they had had one before. In this Tempeft the Ship
was driven upon the Coaft of Rugen^ an Ifland on
the German fide of the Baltic^ where with much
Difficulty they put into Straelfund^ a Sea-Port of
Pomererif and there the Traveller went on Shore.
Here walking penfively and concerned about
the event of his Fortune, and fearing the Ship
would really be loft, as his firft Man had foretold
himj I fay, walking very anxious upon the Key at
Straelfund^ there meets him a Man who he was ut-
terly a Stranger to, but who falutes him in EngliJJj^
calls him by his Name, and asks him what he did
there.
Surpriz'd with fuch a Salutation, and glad
to fee any Man in fuch a ftrange remote Country
that he was like to be acquainted with, and much
more that could call him by his Name, he returned
his Compliment, and anfwer'd that indeed he had
not much Bufinefs there, but that he came thither
by a very unfortunate occafion.
I KNOW you are, fays the Gentleman j you came
in here laft Night in yon Ship 5 pointing to the
VefTel which lay in the Road betwen the City and
the Ifland of Rugen.
I DID fo, fays the Itravelkfj and I am like to
have but ill Luck with her, I
of APP ARiriONS. 6i
I DOUBT fo, fays the Stranger^ and I fuppole that
made you look fo much concernM.
I CANNOT deny^
/aid he^ buc 1 might look
troubled, I think I have Caufe, for I am here in a
ftrange Country, without Acquaintance or Intereft,
and know not yet what Condition the Ship is in,
or my Goods, which I doubt are damag'd.
I AM afTur'd, y^>\f the ^entleman^ the Ship will
not be able to purfueher Voyage, but perhaps your
Cargo may be fafe. I underftand the Goods you
have on Board are Herrings.
They are {o^fays the 'traveller -^ I have twelve
Laft of Herrings on board, and we have had a
long Voyage already.
I K N o w you have, [aid the Gentleman j but pull
up your Spirits, your Fifh is all faie, and you may
get it on Shore > and you fhall either fell it here, or
get Ships here to Reload it again for Dantzick-^sxA
feeing you are a Stranger, adds he, I will get you
fome affiilance.
All this while he had not ask'd him his Name;
but now he faid to him, Will you not let me
know. Sir, who it is I am thus much oblig'd to ?
First, returns he, let me fee and get you fome
help, that you may go cheerfully about your Bufi-
nefs, and we'll talk of that afterwards j fo he bad
him walk a little there, and he would come to him
again.
He had not walked long but he fees a Meflen-
ger coming to him, to tell him, that there was arj,
Englijh Gentleman defir'd to fpeak with him atfuch
a Houfe, and that he was to guide him to the
place.
Accordingly he follows the Meflenger,
who brings him to a Publick Houfe where were
Three Gentlemen fitting in a Room, and the Man
he had converfed with made a fourth, who cali'd
him in, and bad him fit down^which he did.
4 The
^4 ^^ Hijiorj and Reality
TilE Three Gentlemen faluted him very kindly,
and one of them alio in Englijh^ and told him they
had received an Account of his Circumftances from
that Gentleman, and that theyfent for him to com-
fort and aflift hiti.
This was a kind and agreeable Surprize to him,
and he could not but receive it with all Civility
and Acknowledgment poffible. After which they
ask'd him to Sup with them,which he accepted of^
and at Supper hearing the whole of the Cafe, they
fent for a Merchant of that City to come to
them.
When the Merchant was come they recom*
mended the Stranger's Affair to him j and he, the
Merchant, was foaffi dant to the Stranger that he
bought all his Cargo of Fifh, or procured others to
buy it, giving him a Price to his Satisfaction, and
gave him as much Money there as he required, and
good Bills payable at Dantzick for the reft.
I N the mean time, (for this was tranfa6ling fe*
veral Days) the Three Gentlemen continued ex-
ceeding courteous and obliging to him j and after
many other Civilities, they being travelling into
Polandy invited the Traveller to go with them as
far as Dantzickj which they knew he was bound
for, and that they would fubfill him at their own
Charge fo far. The Traveller confidering his own
Condition, and that the Ship he came in was not in
Condition to purfue the Voyage, refolv'd to ac-
cept of the Offer, and accordingly prepared to go
with them : But he was extremely concern'd that
he could not fee the kind Stranger who had firft
faluted him as above, and who brought him to the
Gentlemen that were now fo extraordinary civil
to him 5 he enquired after him of the Meffenger
that fetch'd him to that Houfe, but he knew him
not ; he ask'd the People of the Houfe, but they
could give no Account of him > he ask'd the three
Gen-
of APPARITIONS. 6$
Gentlemen about him^ but they knew nothing
of him 5 the Englijh Gentleman among them faid,
he thought he belonged to that Gentleman, point-
ing to another of the three who was a German '^ the
German anfwer'd that he underitood he was the third
Gentleman's Friend, who was a Swede^ that is a
Pomeranian^ for Pomeren is under the Dominion of
the Swedes. But the Swede faid he thought he was
the Englijh Gentleman's Brother, for he fpoke
Englijh very well 5 in a word, no body knew him,
and he faw him no more.
I N a Week more or thereabout the four Gen*
tlemen (for now they were fo many) fet out toge-
ther, with every one a Servant 5 except our Traveller^
who had none. Every one that knows the Coun-
try from Stetin to Dantzick and Poland^knows that
it is a defart and wild Country very thin of Inha*
bitants, and confequently not full of Towns 1
with feveral Woods and Wafts in their Way, very
difficult to Travel, and this obliged them feveral
times to take Guides by the Way, fo that they
made up with their Guides always Eight, feme*
times Ten in Company, very wellarm'd, and toiei*a-*
bly well mounted.
The third Day after they were paft the Oder^
and began to come out of that Part of Pomeren
which lies Eaft of Stetin^ and is call'd the Ducat
Pomeren^ they obferv'd a Man mean in Apparel, but
appearing fomething more than meerly what Po*
verty reprefents, travelling the fame Way as they
did, but always keeping at about the diftance of
half a Mile from them on their left Hand.
He travelled on Foot, but kept full pace with
them, and often was fome way before them j whe^
ther he was in a Track or Road, as they were, they
could not tell, but he kept fuch an equal Diftance
as if the Road he was in was Parallel with theirs
indeed fometimes they loft fight of him for a while j
F yes
66 . The Hijlory and Reality
yet they were fure to find him again at fomc httle
diftance, either before them or behind them > and
this continued three Days before they took any
extraordinary notice of him.
But the third Day they were a little more cu-
rious about him, and one of them (with a Servant
attending) rode from the Company, intending to
fpeak with him j but as foon as he law them come
towards him, the Stranger fled farther to the Left
from them \ ftill however keeping on his Way for-
ward, but plainly fhunning being fpoken with 5 fo
the Gentleman and his Servant came back again,
having made no Difcovery j except this, that the
Stranger kept no Path or Track, that there was
no Road or Way in the Place where he marcht,buc
that he only kept at fuch a certain diflance from
them J from whence they concluded that he
was only fome poor Man that was travelling over
that wild Country, and having gotten fome Intel-
ligence of their Journey kept pace with them, to
guide him the Way : But two Things amufed
them ftrangely that Third Day of their Travel.
I. They obferved that Riding over a large
Plain, where there were fome few fcattering Houfes
which lay on the other fide ofthe Road South, (for
he kept all along (before) on the North fide of
them) I fay, paffing over this Plain, the Traveller
keeping a little behind them crofs'd the Road,
and going up to one of the faid fcatter'd Houfes,
knock'd at the Door and went in.
Upon this they refolv'd if pofiible to get fome
knowledge of him 5 fo they rode all up to another
of thofe Houfes : Here calling to the Inhabitants,
'
tho' it was no Inn or Houfe of Entertainment,
but a Poor Husbandman's Cottage, they got
Leave to refrefh themfelves, having Provifions and
^Wine of their own, and giving the good Wife a
fmall'
of APPARITIO NS. 67
fttiall Bottle of about half a Pint of Brandy atpart*
ing^ the People were abundantly fatisfied.
Here talking of the Traveller, and at what
Houfe he call'd in the Village, (for tho' the Houfes
Hood itragling over the wade, yet as there were near
twenty of them in all it was call'd a Town) here,
I fay, talking of the Traveller and of his knocking
at the Door of one of the Houfes, the Woman of
the Houfe underftanding their Language,hafi;ilyask'd,
What, fays fhe, have you feen the Qwke Mouraski ?
Who fhe meant, they did not know 5 but defcribing
thePerfonto her,and ihe alfo to them, they began to
come to an Underllanding. Did he not keep Pace
with yo\x^ fays JJoe^ on the North fide of the Road
all the Way ? Yes, faid they.
A Y, fays Jhe^ and had youofFer'd to ride towards
him, you would always have found him as far off as
at firft.
That amufed them. Why, what is he? fays one
of the Gentlemen.
Nay we know not, fays fie^ nor deiire to
know.
Why fo ? fays he.
Because, fays foe^ he brings no good luck -,
pray at what Houfe do ye fay he knockt at the
Door?
They defcrib'd the Houfe, at which the Wo-
man and all the Children fell a crying, and making
a great fign of Sorrow.
What's the Matter, fays the Gentlemen^ what
are you difturb'd at ?
O5 fays the good Woman^ that Qinke Mouraski ne-
ver calls at any Houfe in the Town, but fome or
other of the Family dies that Year.
B y this it feem'd that he came often that Way,
fo he ask'd the Woman how often he was ufed to
be feen thereabouts.
F 2 She
6i The Hijlor^ and ReaTtty ^
Sh& ahfvvered, Not often, perhaps once ortwice
a Year j and fays Jhe^ fometimes be pafTes by and
calls or knocks at no Houfe in his Way, and then,
adds Jhe^ we are ^lad to fee him.
Why, fays the Gentleman^ what do you take
him to be the Devil?
No, no, fays Jhe^ not the Devil, no, he is a very
good Man.
But why are you fo afraid ofhim then ? fays he.
Because, fays fiie^ he knows more than all
the Men in the World j he knows if any one
is to die, and then he knocks at the Houfe to tell
them to be ready.
N. B. Here the Woman enquired more exa6lly
about the Houfe where the 'traveller called, and
the Gentleman going to the Door pointed it out
to her, at which fhe. left off crying, and then
rejoyc'd as much as fie had lamented before 5 for
it Jeems fhe had mtfiaken it for another Houfe
which flood near it, and where her own Father
and Mother lived.
^ Then he asked her what Countryman the Tra-
veller was.
She faid, they did not know that, for no Body
ever fpoke to him, they were afraid.
Why, fays he, when he knocks at the Door
don't ye fpeak to him ?
No, fays foe, nor does he fpeak a word ; but juft
as he goes away he will fometimes fay re-
peating a word which I do not remember, but
fignifies he comforted -y and then they are fure the
Perfon {hall be fick only, but fliall not die.
But, fays he, do they entertain him, or givehiai
any thing?
Y "£.%, fays fae, they fet Bread before him, and
he takes a fmall Piece in his Handj but no Body
can fay they ever faw him Eat.
But what do you take him to be then ? fays he.
of APPARiriO N S. <?5>
A GOOD Angel, fays the Woman 5 adding ano-
ther hard Word of their own, (ignifying that he
did no Hurt to any body 5 and, fays fhe, to fome
Families he is a Meflenger of Good. All this gave
them Amufement, but no particular Sacisfadtion, and
rather prompted their Curiofity to make farther En-
quiry about him. After about an t^our's refrefhing
themfelves at this poor Cottage, they proceeded on
their Journey, and having rode about two Milesj
they faw their old Obje6b again on the left or north
lidc of their Road, as before, and he kept in their ^
fight in the fame manner all the reft of the Day.
There was a Town, I think 'tis call'd Kint-^
zigeuy or fome fuch like Name, at a few Miles di-
Hance, and where their Guide told them they Ihould
lodge, and before they came to the Town there was
a River, not a great or very wide River, but too
large to ride thro' ir, and at the Town there is a ve-
ry good flone Bridge ; built, as they were told, by
the Anceftors of the Kings o^ Pruffia^ that is, as I
fuppofe, the old Dukes of Pomerania.
Accordingly they pafs'd this Bridge, and
then went into' the Town. It was moft nat iral to
them to obfervc what Courfe the Traveller would
take to pafs the River, who as he went on muft ne-
ceflarily come to the Bank, at near a Mile diftance
from the Town, fo they halted a little, one of thern
alighting from his Horfe, as if fomething had re-
quired their flay, that the Travelled might go on
before them, which he did.
Observing him as narrowly as poilible, they
follow'd him (with their Eyes) down to the very
Edge of the River, nor did he ftop or take notice
of them, tho' they faw him plainly to the very Bank ;
but here not being able to keep him exa61;ly in their
fight every Moment, they immediately faw him
going up the rifing Grounds, on the other fide,
F 5
without
70 The Hiftoyy and Reality
without being capable of giving the leaft account
how he pafs'd the Water.
This was the other Paflage, which, I fay, amu-
fcd them very much.
As foon as they came into the Town where they
were to lodge, their Guide looking beyond the
Houfe where they ftop'd, called to them, Look
yonder, fays he, is your Traveller fitting at the
Door of fuch an Inn or Houfe, pointing to the
Place} and there they faw him plain at the Door ea-
ting a piece of Bread, and having a Pot or Jug of
PoliJJj Beer (landing by him. One of the Gentlemen
(refolving, if poflible, to fpeak with him) walk'd up in
his Boots to the Place, feeing him fitting all the while
he was going, 'till coming very near, and happen-
ing to turn his Eyes but one Moment from him,
when he look'd again, the Man was gone.
H E ask'd the People of the Houfe about him,
but they knew nothing of him, only that as they
faid there was fuch a Man, but he was gone, and
they neither knew who he was, or whither he was
gone.
Then he ask'd them if they did not know the
Owke Mouraski -, they faid Yes, they had heard of
, but they did not know him.
Why, fays the GentJemm^ don't you.know that
this was he that fat upon the Bench?
No, they faid^ that could not be he, that was a
poor Countryman,a Traveller.
The Gentleman aflured them that was he 5 at
which they feemed very much concerned, but fcemed
very willing not to believe him.
Why, fays he^ are you afraid of him ?
No, fays ihey^ but we don't like his coming to
us, for, they fay, he brings no good to the Family
where he comes.
But this Difcourfe ended, and the Gentleman
gain'd no Information there.
7 Th e
of APPARITIO NS. 71
The next Day they had his Company again, as
before j and paffing by a fi ngle Houfe upon the Road,
near a Village, but {landing quite out of the Road,
they obferv'd the Traveller to flop at that Houfe,
and go in.
By this time their Curioiity was very much
heighten'd, and they began to be fomething uneafy
about him 5 it was not very pleafant, they thought, to
have the Devil fo near them,' and they could think
him to be nothing \t{% 5 fo they all turn'd back, and
refolvM to go to the Houfe, and if he was there t^
fpeak with him, if pofEblej and if nor, to inform
themfelves as much as they could about him.
When they came within about a quarter of a
Mile of the Houfe, they faw the Traveller on the
other fide, having gone out at the back Door, and
travelling forward as unconcern'd, and taking no
notice of them, jufl as before.
This furprized them 5 however they went up to
the Houfe, and enquired about him, as they did
before : but here they received a quite differing Ac^
count of him; here the People blefs'd him, called
him by the fame Name, but took him for their
.good Angel, (as they call'd him,) that he always
brought them good Tidings, that they were fure it
would fare well with them after he had been with
them 5 and a great deal more.
But to bring this Story to a conclufion, fo far
as it ferves the prefent Occafion : This Spe<5lre, or
Apparition, for fo I mufl call it, attended them
'till they came within two Leagues of Dantzicky
where the Gentlemen feparated, after a Day or two
flaying m the City 5 the three Gentlemen going
from thence to Mariemhurgh in Polijh PruJJia^ and
our Traveller was left in Dantzick.
While he was here a Man made acquaintance
with him who was bound to Komngsberg^ and our
Traveller beinj refolv'd to go for Petersburg^ was
F 4 glad
yi The Hifiory and Reality
glad to>have this new Acquaintance, which he had,
as we may fay, pick'd up, to go with him > fo they
embark'd together in a fmall Hoy, upon the Sea or
X-ake caird xh^Frifchaff^ which carry'd ihcmio Ko-
ningsherg. He gives a llrange tho' diverting Account
of his Converfation with this Man, who told him
fo many Stories of feveral kinds, that it amaz'd him j
and he look'd as if he knew all the World, and all
the People in it, and 'all things that had happened
in it,- or would happen in it for ever to come, and
fomething longer.
However, as the Frifchaff \s not above three
or four Days fail, and they were quickly at Ko-
ningsberg^ the Converfation was foon over, and this
new Acquaintance ended j but the Traveller conti-
nuing his Journey, enquired in the City if there
were any Paflcngcrs or Gentleman travelling to-
wards Riga^ either by Land or by Sea; and being
dire6i:ed to a Houfe where Strangers ufed to reforr,
he found there feveral People bound for Riga^ fome
Merchants, fome Country-People, fome Seafaring-
People, but moffc enclin'd to go by Sea, there be-
ing Veflels always ready at the Pillau^ which is a
Town at the Mouth of the Haff^ ready to Sail for
Riga^ if Goods or Paflengers prefented.
But among them all there was an ancient Man,
habited like a Rufs^ or rather like a Greek Prieft,
with a long venerable Beard, a purple Robe or long
Garment, fuch as the Ruffians wear, a high ftiff-
crown'd Furr-cap, and a clofe Veft about his Body,
girded with a Silk Safhj and he declared himfelf
for Rigay but that being an old Man, he would not
go by Sea, but that he had two Horfes in the City
befides his own, having brought two Servants with
him from Grodno in Lithuania^ but one of them had
left him J fo he offered the Traveller to lend him
one of his Horfes for his Company, if he would
travel
of APPARITIONS. 73
travel wich him to Mittau in Courland^ and thence
to Riga.
I T will take up too much Room here, to give a
full Account of the Travels of this wandring
Perfon, and how in almoft every Place he found
a new Shape ready to thruft into his Company, and
that for four Years intimate Ramble 5 but that ac
laft, being in I'urkey^ his lateft Companion difco-
ver'd to him that he was an Inhabitant of an invifi-
ble Region, that he had been in his Company in
all his Journey in all the differing Figures that he
had met with, and that in a Word he was the fame
Perfon that embark'd with him in Ireland^ landed
with him in Norway^ left him at Gottenhurg^ found
him at Straelfund^ dogged him upon the way to
Dantzick^ failed with him to Komngsierg, lent him a
Horfe to go to Riga^ and fo onj and that he had
onlv put on To many Shapes and Appearances, that
hj might not be uneafy with him, and tired of his
^^ Company.
How they went on together after that, and the
Converfation that pafs'd between them after the
Difcoverys how familiar Friends they were for fome
Months after, and what Reafons he gave why he
would never believe that it was a Devil, but a good
and kind Spirit fent to take Care of him, and affift
him in his Travels; all that, as foreign to my pre-
fent Purpofe, I omit. Perhaps the Story may fee
the World by itfelf, and well worth reading it will
be, if it docs. But of that by the by.
As I do not here enter into the Authority of the
Story, (tho', as I faid, I have feen it in Manufcript
many Years ago) fo I have no more to fay from it
than this, that if fuch good Spirits are conversant
with Mankind, and refident in the invifible Spaces,
we know not v^/here ; if we have reafon to believe they
are not Angels, and yet really by their A6bions can-
not be Devils 3 then it follow^ that there are a
certain
74 '^^^ Hifiory and Reality
certain middle Species of Spirits in Beings let them
be what they will, let them be employed, dire£ted,
limited and reflrain'd, how and in what manner he
pleafes who is their Maker, and who ought to be
their Guide and Direftorj that's not the matter, nor
can it be enquired into herej the Queftion before
us is only whether fuch there are, or no ?
Now if it be granted that there are fuch, and
that brings it down to the prefent Cafe, if there
are fuch, then all Apparitions are not Devils 5 no,
nor are they walking difturbed Souls of Men lately
embodied and departed : a Notion empty and not
to be defended 5 incongruous, and inconfiftent either
with Scripture, the Chriftian Religion, or Reafon,
and founded only in the bewildred Imaginations and
Dreams of ignorant People, who neither know how
or by what Rules to judge of fuch Things, or are
capable of right Conceptions about them •, who do
not give ihemfelves timetoexercife that little Power
of thinking that they are Mailers of, and fo are
left to the Darknefs of their own Fancies, thinking
every thing they fee is a Devil, meerly becaufe they
know not what elfe to make of ir, what other Name
to give ir, or that it can be poflible any thing but
Devils or Angels can come of fuch Errand?.
By this.Miftake they give the Devil the Ho-
nour of many an A6t:ion, which he is too much a
Devil to have any hand in 5 afcribe Works of Cha-
rity and Benevolence tojiim j make him move inju-
rious and knavifh Men to do Juftice, Thieves to
make Reftitution, cruel and inhuman Wretches to
be merciful. Cheats to turn honeft, Robbers to de-
iift, and Sinners to repent.
Story tells us, that /^i/^^ that famous out-law'd
Robber, the molt famous fince Robin Hood^ met
aSpeftre upon the Road, in a Place cdWcdStangate-
Hok^ in HuntingtonJJoire^ where he ufed to commit
his
Gf APPARITIO NS. 7%
his Robberies J and famous for many a Highway
Robbery fince that.
The Spe6i:re appeared in the Habit of a plain
Country Grazier > and as the Devil, you may fup^
pofe, knew very well the Haunts and Retreats thac
this Hind ufed to frequent 5 he comes into the Inn,
and taking up his Quarters, puts up his Horfc, and
makes the Hoftler carry up his Portmanteau, which
was very heavy, into his Chamber j when he was in
the Chamber he opens his Pack, takes out his
Money, which feemed to be in feveral fmall Parcels,
and puts it together into no more than two Bags,
that it might make an equal weight to each fide of
his Horfe, and make as much fhow of it as pofSble.
Houses that entertain Rogues are feldom with-
out Spies to give them due Intelligence \ Hind gets
Notice of the Money, fees the Man, fees the Horfe,
that he may know him again 5 finds out which
Way the Countryman travels, meets him at Stan^
gate-Hole^ jufl in the bottom between the two Hills,
and Hops him, telling him he muft deliver his
Money.
When he nam'd the Money the Grazier feigns
himfelf furprized, puts on the Pannick, trembles,
and is frighted, and with a pitiful Tone fays, / am
(as you fee) hut a poor Man 5 indeed^ Sir^ I have no
Money 5 [there the Devil fiiew'd that he could fpeak
Truth when it ferv'd his Occafion.] O you old Dog^
fays he, have you no Money? Come, open your
Cloak-bag, and give me the two Bags, one on one
fide your Saddle, and one on t' other: what, have
you no Money, and yet your Bags were too heavy to lie
all on one Gi(\Q} Come, come, deliver, or I'll cut you
to Pieces this Moment. (There he was out too, and
threatened more than he cou'd do.) Well, the poor
Devil whines and cries, and tells him he muft be
miftaken, he took him for another Man fure, for
indeed he had no Money,
Come,
76 The Hifiory and Reality
Comb, come, (zys Hind^ come along with me;
and fo he takes Vus Horfe by the Bridle and leads
him out of the Road into the Woods, which are
very thick there on both fides, and the bufinefs
was too long to ftand in the open Road all the while
to do it.
Whe n he had gotten into the Woods, Come, Mr.
Grazier, fays he, difmount, and give me the two
Bags this Minute. In fhort he dilmounts the poor
Man, cuts his Bridle and his Girts, and opens his
Cloak-bag, where he finds the two Bags. Fery welly
fays Hindy here they are, and heavy as before; fo
he throws them on the Ground, cuts them open, in
one he finds a Halter^ and in the other a piece of
folid Brafs in the exadfc fliape of a Gibbet, and the
Countryman behind him call'd to him, there's your
Fate, Hind, tah care.
1 F he was furprized at what he had found in the
Bags, (for there was not a Farthing of Money but
in the Bag Where the Halter was, of which pre-
fently,) 1 fay, if he was furprized at what he found
in the Bags, he was more fo at hearing the Coun-
tryman call him by his Name, and turn'd about to
kill him, becaufe he thought he was known ; but
he had no Life nor Soul left in him, when turning
about, as 1 fay, to kill the Fellow, he faw nothing
but the poor Horfe. He funk down to the Earth,
and lay there a confiderable time; how long, that
(being alone) he could not tell, but it mull be fome
Minutes. At laft coming to himfelf he goes away
terrified to the laft degree, and afhamed, wondring
what it (hould be.
I HINTED that there was no Money but one
Piece found, which the Story fays was Scots^ a Piece
caird in Scotland a Fourteen^ in Englijhy a nirteen
Pence Half-Penny, to pay the Hangman with; from
whence it may be fuppos'd that Saying is ufcd to this
Day,
of APPARITIONS. 7j
Day, that thirteen Pence Half-Penny is Hangman's
Wages,
Now tho' the Story has fome Mirth in it, and
may with the many Stories of that Robber be
kid by as Romances, yet it is thus far to my
Purpofej That this was a Spirit, that muft be ac-
knowledged. A good Angel from Heaven wou'd
hardly ha^e been fent to'give him fuch aninefFedtu-
al infignificant Hint, which had no fufficient Effe£t,
whatever it might have juft then to furprize him,
for he rob'd continually after that, and was hang'd
at laft for it.
The Dm/, as before, cannot rationally be fufpe-
6J:ed in the Cafe 5 for why ihould the Devil both ,bauk
him, threaten and caution him ? threaten him with
hanging him, fright him with the Gibbet and Hal-
tar, and caution him to take care. This was not
for the Devirs Purpofe, it was more for his Inte-
reft to have him go on, though he came to the
Gallows at lafl.
I F then it vvas neither good Angel or Bad^ what
muft it be, and how muft we judge of it? what
Name muft we gis^e him, and who was this Country
Grazier ?
To come off of this, fome will have it be, that
it is the Demi under Conftraint, the Devil in Com-
miiSon, that he is fent on fuch Errands by a fupe-
rior Power that has him at Command > and that
when he is dire£ted to do fo and fo^ he muft obey,
he dare do no otherwife. This is begging the Que-
ftion in the grofleft manner imaginable. Befides,
why the Devil fent of fuch Errands ?
i.\ T is not probable^ it is not to be gathered fron\
the ordinary Courfe of Providence. The Devil in-
deed was permitted, or, if you will have it, he
was commillion'd to ftrip and affli£t Poor Joh-y and
he was again permitted to enter into the Herd of
Swine 5 but this does not amount to a Paralel: In
both
78 The Hijlory and Reality
both thofe Examples he was only employ'd as art
Inftrument, and, as we may exprels it, in his ordi-
nary Bufinefs, in the way of his Calling, that is to
lay in doing Mifchief: But here he is fuppos'd em-
ploy'd in doing Good, cautioning a hardened
Rogue to leave off his wicked Courle, and efcape
the Gallows. Now this is quite out of Satan's
road of Bufinefs 5 'tis alfo out of the ordinary courfe
of Heaven's Condudt, for when do we find God
employing the Devil in any good Work ? I do not
remember one clear Example of it, in all the facred
Hiftory.
2. I T would argue that Heaven fhould want In-
flrumentSj which is not at all juft to infer; will
they pretend, that, for want of more proper Agents,
God ftiould employ the Devil to fave a High-way
Man from the Gallows? and, which is more than all
the reft, fhould not bring it to pafs neither ? But if
you will allow that this was one of the Imaginary
ipccies of Spirits, who, willing to fave a poor
Wretch that was running head- long to the Z)^iJ/7,
took all thefe Meafures to alarm him, and bring him
to juft Refleftions, but was not able to reclaim
him, was not admitted to give him Notice, when
he was about the fatal Ad he was furpriz'd in, or
to warn him when the Officers came to apprehend
him, this feems rational.
I F the Devil fhould be fuppos'd to be employ'd
in fuch a Work as this was, and fo contrary to his
Inclination, either he would perform it like him-
felf, treacherous and unfaithful, or at beft, relu6i:ant
and unwilling. Perhaps you will fay he durft not
perform it treacheroully and unfaithfully; and it
may be not : But why muft it be fuppos'd Heaven
fhould employ his worft and wickedeft Creature,
whom he had long fince disbanded, and caft out
of his Service, rejeding him as unworthy to be em-
ploy'd; and who, if he was employ'd, and durft
not^
of APPARITIO NS. 7^
not decline the Work, yet, it muft be acknow-
ledg'd, would obey with the utmoft Averfion and
Unwillingnefsj when at the fame time Millions of
faithful Agents, willing and chearfuUy-obedienc
Servants, are ready at command, to execute his
Will with the utmoft Vigour and Fidelity ?
But to leave arguing upon Infcrutables, let us
come to Narration of Fa£i:s.
I HAVE another Account received from a parti-
cular Acquaintance in a neighbouring Nation. I
could name Perfons and Places in a more exaft
manner to thefe Accounts j but fome Reafons of
State forbid us at this time to enter into the Cir-
cumftanccs of Families. For where Matters of Ap-
parition and Witchcraft are the Subftance of the
Hiftory, it has never been found reafonable to name
Houfes ind Families 5 and as this Apology will be
allow'd to be juft, 1 expeft it will be accepted by
the Reader in all the Examples I fhall give of this
kind.
A CERTAIN Perfon of Quality, being with
his Family at his Country-Seat for the Summer-
Seafon, according to his ordinary Cuftom, was
oblig'd upon a particular Occafion of Health to leave
his faid Seat, and go to Jis^ La Chapplk^ to ufe
the Baths there : This was it feems in the Month
of Auguft^ being two Months fooner than the ufual
time of his returning to Court for the Winter.
Upon thus removing fooner than ordinary, he
did not then disfurnifh the Houfe, as was the ordinary
Ufage of the Family, or carry away his Plate and
other valuable Goods, but left his Steward and
three Servants to look after the Houfe, and the
Padre or Parijh Prieft was defired to keep his Eye
upon them too, and to fuccour them from the
Village adjoining, if there was Occafion.
The iSteward had no publick Notice of any
Harm approaching 5 but for three or four Days fuc-
ceifively
So 7^<? Hiflory and Reality
ceflively he had fecrec ftrange Impulfes of Dread
and Terror upon his Mind that the Houfe was be-
fet, and was to be aflaulted by a Troop of Banditti,
or as we call ^hem here, Houfe-hreakers^ who would
murther them all, and after they had robb'd the
Houfe, would fet it on Fire 5 and this follow'd him fo
fall, and made fuch Impreffion upon his Mind, that
he could think of nothing clfe.
Upon this the third Day he went to the Padre^
or Parijh Prieft^ and made his Complaint 5 upon
which the Prieft and the Steward had the follow-
ing Difcourfe, the Steward beginning thus :
FAiBER-i [aid he^ you know what a Charge I
have in my Cuftody, and how my Lord has intru-
lled me with the whole Houfe, and all the rich
Furniture is (landings I am in great Perplexity a-
bout it, and come to you for your Advice.
Pa. Why, what's the Matter? you have not
heard of any Mifchief threatned, have you?
St. N o, I have heard of nothing 5 but I have
fuch Apprehenfions, and ithasmade fuch Impreffion
upon me for thefe three Days, that*
* Here he told him the particulars of the Unea-
ftnefs he had been in^ and added^ bejides what is [aid
above^ that one of the Servants had the fame.^
and
had told him ofit^ tho" he had communicated nothing
to that Servant in the leaft.
Pa. f T may be, you dream'd of thefe things ?
St. No indeed, Padre^ 1 am fure I could noc
dream of them, for I could never fleep.
Pa, What can I do for you? What would
you have me do ?
St. I WOULD have you firft of all tell me what
you think of thefe things, and whether there is a-
ny Notice to be taken of them* r-
* Here the Padre examined him more firiUly ^-
boul the Particulars^ and fent for the Servant and
examined him apart > and being a very judicious
honefi Man^ he anfwefd him thus Pa.
0f APPARITIONS. 8i
Pa. Look you, Mr. Steward^ I do not lay a very
great Screfs upon fuch things, but yet I don't think
they are to be wholly flighted 5 and therefore I
would have you be upon your Guard, and if you
have the leafl Alarm let me know.
St. That is poor Satisfadiion to me to be up-
on my Guard, if I am over-power'd. I fuppofe, if
any Villains have a Defign to attack me, they know
my Strength.
Pa. Shall I reinforce your Garrifon?
St. I WISH you would.
Pa. Well, FU fend you fome Men with Fire-
Arms, to lye there this Night.
Accordingly thePrieft fent him Rvt flout Fel-
lows with Fuzces, and a dozen of Hand-Granadoes
with them, and while they continu'd in the Houfe
nothing appear'dj but the Padre finding nothing
come of it, and being loth to put his Patron to fo
continued a Charge, fent for the Steward, and in a
chiding angry Tone, told him his Mind.
Pa. I KNOW not how you will anfvver it to my
Lord, but you have put him to a prodigious Ex-
pence here, in keeping a Garrifon in the Houfe all
this while.
St. I AM ferry for it. Padre \ but what can I
do?
Pa. Do! Why, compofe your Mind, and keep up
your Heart, and don't let my Lord fpend two or three
hundred Livres here, to cure you of the Vapours.
St. Why, you faid your felf, Padre^ that it was
not to be wholly flighted.^
Pa. That's truej but I faid alfo, I would not
lay too great a Strefs upon it.
St. What 'mull I do then ?
Pa. Do! Why, difmifs the Men again, and take
what Care you canj and if you have any Nocice of
Mifchief that may be depended upon, kc me have
Notice too, and I'll affift you,
G St.
The H'tjlory and Reality
St. Well then, the good Angel mufir prote£h
my Lord's Houfe, I fee, for no body elfe will.
Amen^ fays the Padre^ 1 trufl: the good Spirits
will keep you all: So he blefs'd the Steward, (in
his way) and the Steward went away grumbling
very much that he took away his Garrifon, and left
him to the good Spirits.
It feems, for all this, that the Steward's Notices,
however fecret, and from he knew not who, were
not of fo light an Import as the Padre thought
they were 5 for as he had this Impulfe upon his
Mind that fuch Mifchief was brewing, fo it really
was, as you will fee prefently.
A 5 E T of Robbers, who had Intelligence that
the Nobleman with his Family was gone to jUdc
La Chapelle^ but that the Houfe was left furnifh'd,
and all the Plate and the things of Value were left
in it, had form'd a Defign to plunder the Houfe,
and afterwards to burn it, iuft as the Steward had
faid.
They were two and twenty ftrong in the whole,
and thoroughly arm'd for Mifchief Yet while the
additional Force, which the Padre had plac'd to
reinforce the Steward, were in the Houfe, of
whom, including the other four, three fat up every
Night, they did not dare to attempt it.
B u T as foon as they heard that the Guard was
difmifs'd, they form'd their Defign anew, and, to
make the Story ihort, they attack'd the Houfe a-
bout Midnight. Having, I fuppofe, proper In-
ftruments about them, they foon broke open a Win-
dow, and twelve of them got into the Houfe,
the reft ftanding Centinel at fuch Places as they
thought proper, to prevent any Succours from the
Town.
The poor Steward and his three Men were in
great Diftrefsj they were indeed above Stairs, and
had barricadocd the Stair-Cafes as \yell as they
could,
of APPARITIONS. 85
could, hearing the Fellows were breaking in 5 but
when they found they were got in, they expe6ted
nothing but to be kept above Stairs 'till the Houfc
was plunder'd, and then to be burnt alive.
But it feems the good Spirits the Prieft fpokc
of, or fome body elfe, made better Proviiion for
them, as you will fee prefently.
When the firft of the Fellows were gotten in-
to the Hou(e, and had open'd the Door, and let in
as many of their Gang as they thought fit, which
(as above) was twelve in Number they fliut the Door
again, and fliut themfelvcs in % leaving two without
the Door, wKo had a Watch-word, to go and call
more Help if they wanted it.
The twelve ranging over the great Hall, found
little there to gratify their greedy Hopes 5 but brea-
king next into a fine wcll-furnifii'd Parlour, where
the Family ufually far. Behold, in a great cafy
Chair, fat a grave ancient Man, with a long full-
bottom'd black Wig, a rich brocaded Gown, and
a. Lawyer's lac'd Band, but looking as if in great
Surprize, feem'd to make Signs to them for Mercy,
but faid not a Word, nor they much to him, ex-
cept that one of them darting, cry'd. Ha! who's
here ?
Immediately the Rogues fell to pulling
down the fine Damask Curtains in the Windows,
and other rich Things 5 but One faid to Another
with an Oath, Make the old Dog tell us where the
Plate is hid 5 and another faid, // he won't tell youy
cut his Throat immediately.
The ancient Gentleman, with Signs of En-
treaty, as if begging for his Life, and in a great
Fright, points to a Doorj which being open'd
would let them into another Parlour, which was
the Gaming Room, and ferv'd as a Drawing- Room
to the firft Parlour • and by another Door open'd
into the great Salon^ which look'diato theGardens-
C 2. They
84 7^^^ Hijlory and Reality
They were fome time forcing their way into that
Room} but when they came in, they were furpriz'd
to fee the fame old Man, in the fame Drefs, and
the fame Chair, fitting at the upper end of the
Room, making the fame Geflures, and iiienc En-
treaties, as before.
They were not much conccrn'd at firft, but
thought he had come in by another Door, and be-
gan to fwear at him, for putting them to the Trou-
ble of breaking open the Door, when there was an-
other way into the Room. But, another wickeder
than the firft, faid, with a heavy Curfe, the old Dog
was got in hy another Door^ on purpofe to convey
away the Plate and Money, and bad knock his
Brains out. Upon which the firft fwore at him,
that if he did not immediately fhow them where it
was, he was a dead Dog that Moment.
Upon this furious Ufage, he points to the Doors
which opened into the Salon^ which being a thin
Pair of Folding- Doors open'd prefently, and in
they run into the great Salon\ when looking at the
farther end of the Room, there fat the ancient
Man again, in the fame Drefs and Pofturc as be-
fore.
Upon this Sight, thofe that were foremoft
among them cry'd out aloud. Why, this old Fel-
low deals with the Devil fure, he's here afore u$
again.
But the Cafe difFer'd a little now 5 for when
they came out of the firft Parlour, being eager for
the Plate and Money, and willing to find it a l l,-
the whole Body of them run out into the fecond
Parlour J but now the ancient Man pointing to the
third Room, they did not all immediately rufh out
into the Salon^ but four of them were left behind
in the Parlour or Gaming-Room mentioned juft
now, not by order or defign, but accidentally.
By
ef APPARITIONS. 8y
By this Means they fell into the following Con-
fufion^ for while fome of them call'd out from the
Salon^ that the t?/^ Rogue 'was there before them again -y
others anfwer'd out of the Parlour, How the De'vil
can that be ? why, he is here ftill in his Chair, and
all his Rubbifli: with that, two of them run back
into the firll Parlour, and there they faw him again
fitting as before. Notwithftanding all this, far from
guefling what the Occafion fhould be, they fancied
they were gamed, or fuggefted that they were but
jefted with, and that there were three feveral old
Men all drefs'd up in the fame Habits for the very
fame Occafion, and to mock them, as if to let them
know that the Men above in the Houfc were not
afraid of them.
W£.!-. i.^ fays one of the Gang^ I'll difpatch one
of the old Rogues, I'll teach one of them how to
make Game at us : upon which, raifing his Fuzee
as high as his Arm would let him, he flruck at
the antient Man, as he thought it was, with all his
Force 5 but behold! there was nothing in the Chair,
and his Fuzee flew into a thoufand Pieces, wound-
ing his Hand moff grievoufly, and a Piece of the
Barrel ftriking him on the Head, broke his Face,
and knock'd him down backward.
A T the fame time, one of thofe in th e Salon run-
ning at the antient Man that fat there, fwore he
would tear his fine brocaded Gown off, and then
he would cut his Throat: but when he went to
take hold of him, there was nothing in the Chair.
This happening in both Rooms, they were all
in moft horrible Confufion, and cry'd out in both
Rooms at the fame Moment, in a terrible manner.
A^ they were in the utmoft Amazement at the
thing, fo after the firft Clamour they Hood looking
upon one another for fome time, without fpeaking
a Word more 5 but at length one faid, Let's go
feack into the firit Parlour and fee if that's gone
G 5
tooj
^6 The Htfiory and Reality
too 5 and with that Word, two or three that were
on that fide, run into the Room, and there fat the
antient Figure as at firft 5 upon which they called
to the Company, and told them, they believed they
were all bewitch'd, and 'twas certain they only
fancy'd they faw a Man in the other Rooms, for
there was the real old Man fitting where he was
at firfl.
Upon this they all run thither, faying, they
would fee whether it was the Devil or no 5 and one
of them faid, Let me come 5 I'll fpeak to him 5 'tis
not the firft time I have talk'd with the Devil.
Nay, fays another^ fo will I j and then added with
an': Oath, Gentlemen that were upon fuch Bufinefsas
they were, ought not to be afraid to fpeak to the Devil.
A THIRD (for now their Courage began to rife
again) calls aloud^ Let it be the Devil^ or the Devil's
Grandmother, I'll parley with it, I am refolv'd I'll
know what it is : and with that he runs forward
before the refl, and crofling himfelf, fays to the an-
tient Man in the Chair, in the Name of St Francis,
and St. — (and fo reckon'd up two or three
Saints Names that he depended were enough to
fright the Devil) What art thou?
The Figure never mov'd or fpoke-, but looking
at its Face, they prefently found, that infte^d of
his pitiful Looks, and feeming to beg for his Life, as
he did before, he was chang'd into the moft horrible
Monfler that ever was feen, and fuch as I cannot
defcribej and that inftead of his Hands held up
to them to cry for Mercy, there were two large
fiery Daggers, not flaming, but red hot, and pointed
with a livid bluifli Flame, and in a word, the Devil
or fomething elfe, in the moft frightful Shape that
can be imagin'd. And it was my Opinion, when
I firft read the Story, the Rogues were fo
frighted, that their Imagination afterwards form'd
a thing m their Thoughts more terrible than the
Devil himfelf could appear in.
5 But
of AP PARITIO NS.
B u T be that as it will, his Figure was fuch,
that when they came up to him, not a Man of
them had Courage to look in his Face, much lefs
talk to him 5 and he that was fo bold, and thus
came arm*d with half a Regiment of Saints in his
Mouth, fell down flat on the Ground, having
fainted away (as they call it) with the Fright.
The Steward and his three Men were all this,
while above flairs, in the utmoft Concern ac
the Danger they were in, and expecting every
Moment the Rogues would ftrive to force their
Way up, and cut their Throats 5 They heard the
confus'd Noife that the Fellows made below, but.
cou'd not imagine what it was, and much lefs the
Meaning of it : but while it lafted it came into
the Mind of one of the Servants, that as it was
certain the Fellows were all in the Parlour, and
very bufy there, whatever it was about, he might
go up to the Top of the Houfe and throw one of
their Hand-Granadoes down the Chimney, and per-
haps it might do fome Execution among them.
The Steward approved of this Defign, only
with this Addition 5 if we throw down but into
one Parlour, they will all fly into the Gaming-
room, and fo it will do no Execution j but, fays he,
take three, and put down one into each Chimney,
for the Funnels go up all together, and then they
will not know which Way to I'un.
With thefe Orders two of the Men, who ve-
ry well knew the Place, went up, and firing the
Fuzees of the Granadoes, they put one Shell into
each of the Funnels, and down they went roaring
in the Chimney with a terrible Noife, and (which
was more than all the reft) they came down into
the Parlour where almoft all the Rogues were,
juft -it the Moment that the Fellow that fpoke to
the Spectre was frighted into a fwooning Fit, and
fallen on the Floor.
G 4 The
g8 The Htjiory and Reality
The whole Gang was frighted beyond Ex-
preffionj fome run back into the gaming Parlour
whence they came, and fome run to the other
Door which they came in at from the Hallj but all,
at the fame Inftanr, heard the Z)m/, as they thought
it was, coming down the Chimney.
Had it been poflible that the Fuzeesof the Gra-
nadoes could have continued burning in the Funnel
of the Chimnies, where the Sound was a thoufan4
times doubled by the hollow of the Place, and
where the Soot burning fell down in Flakes of Fire,
the Rogues had been frighted out of their Under-r
{landings 5 imagining, that as they had one dreadful
T>evU]\k^ among them in the Chair, fo there were
ten thoufand more coming down the Chimney to
deftroy them all j and perhaps to carry them all
away.
But that could not bcj fo after they had been
fufficiently feared with the Noife, down came the
Shells into the Rooms, all three together : It happen'd
as luckily as if it had been contriv'd on purpofe,
that the Shell which came down into the Parlour
where they all were, burft as foon as ever it came
to the Bottpm, fo that it did not give them time
o much as to think what it might be, much lefs
to know that it was really a Hand-Granadoej but
as it did great Execution among them, fo they as
certainly believ'd it was the Devtl^ as they beHeved
the Spe61:re in the Chair was the Deinl.
The Noife of the burfting of the Shell was fo
fudden and fo unexpefted, that it confounded them,
and the Mifchief v/as alio terrible 5 the Man that
fainted and who lay on the Ground was killed out-
right, and two more that Itood juft before the
Chimney J five of them were defperately wounded,
whereof one had both his Legs broke, and was fo
^efpcracc, that when the Ptople from the Country
camq
ef APPARITIONS. 8p
came in, he ft^ot himfelf thro' the Head with his
own Piflol^ to prevent his being taken.
Had the reft of them fled out of the Parlour
into the two other Rooms, 'tis probable they had
been wounded by the other Shells; but as they
heard the Noife in both the outer Rooms, and be-
fides were under the Surprife of its being not a
Hand-Granado, but the Z)^-!;//, they had no Power to
ftirj nor, if they had, could they know which way
to go to be fafe : fo they flood (lock ftill 'till both the
Shells in the other Rooms burfl alfo; at which bc-
mg confounded, as well with the Noife as with
the Smoke, and expe£ling more Devils down the
Chimney where they flood, they run out all that
Way, and made to the Door, helping their wound-
ed Men along as well as they could j whereof one
died in the Fields after they were got away.
It mull be obferv'd, when they were thus
alarmed with they knew not, what coming down
the Chimney, they cryed out, that the Devil in
the Chair had fent for more Devils to dellroy them j
and 'twas fuppos'd that had the Shells never come
down they would all have run away. But certain ic
was, that the artificial Devil joyning fo critically
as to Time with the vifionary Devils^ or whatever
they were, com pleated their Diforder, and forced
them to fly.
When they came to the Door to the two
Men, they made fignals for their Comrades, who
were polled in the Avenues to the Houfe, to come
to their Relief; who accordingly came up, andaf-
lilled to carry off their Wounded Men : but after
hearing the Relation of thofe that had been in the
Houfe, and calling a fhort Council a little way
from the Door, (which, tho' dark as it was, the
Steward and his Men could perceive from the Win-
dow,) they all refolved to make off,
Theri&
po 7i&^ Hiflory and Reality
There was another concurring Accident^which
tho' it does not relate to my Subjedl:, I muft fet
down to compleat the Story, 'z;/2;.That two of thefe
Granadoes by the Fire oftheir Fuzes fet the Chim-
neys on Firej the third being in a Funnel that had
no Soot in it, the Room having not been fo much
ufed, did not. This Fire flaming out at the top, as
is ufual, was feen by fome Body in the Village,
who run immediately and allarmed the Prieft or
Padre^ and he again rais'd the whole Town, be-
lieving there was fome Mifchief fallen out, and
that the Houfe was fet on Fire.
Had the reft of the Gang not refolv'd to make
off, as is faid above, they had certainly fallen into
the Hands of the Townfmen, who ran immediately
with what Arms came next to Hand, to the
Houfe. But the Rogues were fled,leaving, as above,
three of their Company dead in the Houfe, and
one in the Field.
I MUST confefs, I cannot draw many Inferences
to my purpofe from the Particulars of this Story,
which however I have told for your Diverfion ;
but from the General I may 5 namely, This Apparition
was certainly not in favour of the Robbery 5 and if
all the Particulars are true in Fa6t as related, we can
hardly with Juftice place them to Satan's Account.
Take him as a Deftroycr and a Father of Mifchief,
he could not be fuppos'd to have appeared to pre-
vent the Robbing the Houfe,or to afliil the Steward
in the Houfe in defence ofhis Mafter's Goods: what
Good Spirit this muft be, and from whence, is then
a remaining Qiieftion, and that brings it to my
purpofe again.
I SHALL give you another Story out of more
Authentick Records, tho' related in a different
manner by feveral People, as their feveral Interefts
inclin'd them.
JAMES
of AP PARiriO NS. 5>i
JAMES IV. King of Scotland being per-
fwaded by the Clergy and the Bifhops to break
with England^ and declare Waragainft Henry VllI,
contrary to the Advice of his Nobility and Gentry,
who were to bear both the Expence and the Blows
x>fa Battel 5 Ifay^ the King, thus over-ruled by the
Clergy, raifes an Army, and prepared to march to
the Frontiers 5 but the Evening before he was to
take the Field, as he was at Fefpersm the Chappel
Royal at his Palace of Lithgo or Linlithgow-^ an an-
ticnt Man appeared to him with a long Head of
Hair ofthe Colour ofAmber, (feme Accounts would
reprefent it as a Glory painted round a Head by the
Limners) and of a venerable Arpc6t, having on a
ruftick Drefs, that is to fay, in that Country Lan-
guage, a belted Plaid girded round with a Linnen
Safli. This Man was (as it feems by the Story) per-
ceived by the King before he came clofe up to him,
and before he was feen by any of the People 5 and
the King alfo perceiv'd him to be earneflly looking
at him, and at the Noble Perfons about him, as if
defiring to fpeak to him.
After fome little time he prefs'd thro' the
Crowd, and came clofe up to the King, and, with-
out any Bow or Reverence made to his Perfon,
told him with a low Voice, but fuch as the King
could hear very diftinftly. That he was fent to him
to warn him, not to proceed in the War which he
had undertaken at the Sollicitation oF the Pricils,
and in Favour of the French -y and that if be did go.
on with it he fhould not profper. He added alfo,
that he fhotild abftain from his Lewd and Unchri-
ftian Pra61:ices with wicked Women, for that if he
did not,tt would iffue in his Defl:ru6tion.
Having deliver'd his MefTage he immediately
vanifh'd 5 for tho' his prefling up to the King had
put the whole AlTembly in diforder, and that every
one's Eye was fix'd upon him, v/hile he was deli-
vering
ox 'The Hifiory and Reality
vering his Meflage to the King 5 yet not one could
fee him any more, or perceive his going back from
|the King 5 which put them all into theutmoft Con-
fternation.
The King himfelf alfo was in great Confufion 5
he would fain have bcliev'd the Spc6i:re was a Man,
and would have fpoken to it again, and would have
ask'd fome Queftions of him. But the People con-
jftantly and with one Voice affirm'd that it was an
Angel, and that it irrjmediately difappear*d after the
Meflage was delivered •, that they plainly faw him and
felt him thruffcing to get by them as he went up,
but not one could fee him go back.
The King upon this was facisfied that 'twas not
a real Body,but an Apparition j and it put him into a
great Conlternarion, and caufed him to delay his
March a- while, and call feveral Councils of his No-
bility to confider what to do.
But the King being ftill over-perfwaded by
thofe Engines who were employ'd by Mon-
fieur La M o t t e, the French Ambaflador 5 con-
tinued in his Defigns for a War, and advanc'd after-
wards with his Army to the tweedy which was in
thofe times the ufual Boundary ofthe two Kingdoms.
Here the Army refled fome time, and the
King being at Jedburgh^ a known Town in thofe
Parts, as he was fitting drinking Wine very plen-
tifully in a great Hall of the Houfe, where his Head-
Quarters was then held,fuppos'd to be the old Earl
of Morton's Houfe in that Town 5 the Spe6i:re came
to him a fecond time, tho' not in the Form which
it appear'd in at Lithgo-y but with Icfs regard or rc-
fpe6t to the Prince, and in an imperious Tone told
him, he was commanded to warn him not to proceed
in that War, which if he did, he fhould lofe not
the Battel only, but his Crown and Kingdom : and
that after this, without Haying for any Anfwer, Hke
the Hand to King Ahafuerus^ it went to the Chim-
ney,
of AP PARiriO NS. 93
^ey, and wrote in the Stone over it, or that which
we call the Mantle-piece, the following Dillich,
Xjata Jit ilia dies, Nefcitur Origo fecundi
Sit labor an requies^ fic tranftt gloria Mundi,
That the King did not liften to either of thefe
Notices, our Hifloriesjas well as Buchanan the Hi-
ftorian of Scotland^ take Notice of very publicklyj
and that he marcht on, fought the Englijh at
Flodden-Field^j and there loft his Army, all his for-
mer Glory, and his Life, isalfo recorded > I need
fay no more of it.
These two Apparitions were certainly from fuch
Spirits as we are fpeaking of, viz. fuch as mean
well to Mankind, and being Good and Beneficenc
in their Nature, would prevent the ruin or de-
ftru6lion of thofe whom they appear to : Buc
have not always Power to dire6t the Meafures, or
to oblige the Perfons to hearken to their Advice.
Had it been a Heavenly Vifion, 'tis more than
probable it would have laid hold of the King's
Hand,asthe Apparition of Angels didtoLo/,and as it
were dragged him away, and faid You fhall not go
forward, that you may not be defeated and flain,
both you and your Army.
Again, had it been the Devilj or an Appari-
tion from Hell, the MefTage would never have
been for Good j it would never havewarn'd him to
avoid the Battel, \vhich ihould be fo fatal to him,
and in which fo much Innocent Blood fhould be
(hed to gratify the Priefts, who 'twas not doubted
were brib'd or otherwife influenc'd by Fr,ance^ and
by which the King fhould be fure to lofe his Life.
The Devil is too great a lover of Mifchief to
concern himfelf in fuch an eminent manner for a
Publick Good 5 too great an Enemy to Mankind to
take the Trouble to caution the King twice, and
fend
^4 ^^^ Hijlory and Reality
fend, as we may fay, two Exprefles to him to fave
Iiis Life, and prevent a Warj nor can wc fuppofe
the Devil concern'd to promote Peace in the
World, but juft the contrary j 'tis his bufinefs to
Foment Diftradions, publick Confufions, and
War.
But {hould we fuppofe for once that the Devil
Handing Neuter between the two Nations, fhould
go fo far out of hisv/ayas to endeavour to keep the
Peace for that time only j yet what fhall we fay to
the other Part of the MefTage at LithgOj viz. That
he fhould abftain from his Lewdnefs, and from his
fcandalous Life, his familiarity with Women, and
the like? Did ever the Devil pretend to this in his
Life ? if this cou'd be the Devil^ then he mull be
allow'd to a£i: very much out of his ordinary Way,
as fome exprefs it 5 'tis not his profefs*d, avow'd
Pra6tice.
What then muft thefe Appearances be, and
from whence ? And how reafonable is it from all
thefe things to believe, that there are fome other
Spirits which we yet know nothing of, or but very
little, who do fo far concern themfelves for the
good of Mankind, as that they frequently appear
to us to warn us of Danger, to alarm us at the
Approach of Impending Mifchiefj advifing and
•cautioning us from evil Courfes, and evil Actions,
as what is deflrudive to our prefent as well as fu-
ture Felicity ^.jH» ^ ^
If it be Objeoid^V^ that fome have owned them-
felves to be the Soul§ "^^f departed Perfons, as of
near Relations, Wive^l- Husbands, [^c. and have
appeared in their Liknefs, and even in their Cloathsj
it is anf\i^er'd. That iiiio Argument againft the
thing at alii becaufe a^: Spirits are allow'd in our
prefent Difcourfe to aflutrie any Shape, fo it is not
doubted but they may take up the Shape of the
Dead as well as of the Living, and may affume the
very
of APPARITIONS. py
very CloathsjCountenancesjand even Voices of dead
Perfonsj and it muft be fo, or elfe we muft: fall into
all the abfurdities of Souls remaining in a wandring^
unappointed, unfettled ftate after Lifej which, if ie
fhould be granted, we muft in many things contradi6t
the Scripture, and thereceiv'd Opinions of all the re-
form'd Churches, and almoft of all good Men even
in all Ages.
CHAP. VIL
Of the many Jirange Inconveniences and ill
Confequences which would attend us in
this Worlds if the Souls of Men and Wo-
men^ unembodyed and departed^ were at Li^
berty to vifit the Earthj from whence they
had been difmifs*d^ and to concern themfelves
about Human Affairs^ either fuch as had
been their own, or that were belonging to
other Teojple.
I
BE LIE VE there are few fpeculative Dclufi-
ons more univerfally receiv'd than this, that
thofe things we call Spedtres, GhoHs^and Apparitions,
are really the departed Souls of thofe Perfons who they
are faid to reprefent.
We fee, or pretend to fee, our very Friends and
Relations adually cloath'd with their old Bodies,
tho' we know thofe Bodies to be emboweird, fe-
parated, and rotting in the Grave 3 as certainly as the
Head and Quarters ofa Man executed for Treafon are
drying in the Sun upon the Gates of the City : we
fee them drefs'd up in the very Cloaths which we
have cut to pieces and given away, fome to one body
fome to another, or applied to this or that ufe > fo
that
^6 flhe Hifiory and Reality
that wc can give an Account of every Rag of
them : we hear them fpeaking with the fame Voice
and Sound5tho* the Organ which form'd their for-
mer Speech we are fure is perilhed and gone.
These SimiHtudes of things fix, it uport out
Thoughts, that it muft be the fame 5 that the
Souls of our late Friends are aftually come to revific
us 5 which is to me, I confefs, the moft incongruous
and unhkelieft thing in the World.
TIR S Ti They muft have a very mean Opinion
of the future State, and the exalted Condition of
the BlefTed, that can imagine they are to be inter-
rupted in their Joy j and even difquieted.^ as Samuel
faid to SauL^ by the importunities of this World's
Affairs : PFhy haft thou difquietedme^ to bring me up} as
if it was in the Power of a defpicable Witch to
bring him up, for it intimates a Force, whether he
would or not > which does not at all correfpond
with the high Thoughts we are directed to enter-
tain of the perfeft Felicity of that State, of which
Eye has not feen, or Ear heard, or Heart conceived.
SECO ND
L
r. They muft have likewife very
mean Thoughts of the State of everlafting Mifery,
who'can think that the Spirits in Prifoncan getloofe
from thofe determined Chains, to come hither and
attend upon the Trifles of Life j nor do I know
whether it would be worth their ftiifting Hell, and
coming back to this World in the wandring Condi-
tion thofe Things call'd Ghofts are underftood
to be 5 or indeed to reaffume a Body,without mak-
ing Life a State of farther Probation. For what
would Life be here for a few Years fubje6lcd to hu-
man Infirmity, want, diftrels, and cafualty, and no
alteration poilible of their future State, no Hope,
no room for changing the Sentence ^ They know
little of that Hell call'd Defpair, that can think it
more fupportable in this World, than the Eternal
State, which it is a profpeft of, is in that to come.
But
of APPARITIONS. 97
B tj T this is too grave abundance fbr the Time.^5
and therefore I fay no more of that Part 5 but Irouft
bring the Cafe nearer to our prefent Tafte, as well
as to our Capacity.
Let us next enquire into the Neceflity of
diflurbing or difquieting our departed Friends^
with or about the Concerns of their Families i If
their coming is by the Permiffion of Providence,
then I demand what Occafion is there for it ? and
of what Service is it ? feeing the fame Providence is
able to employ other Servants of the fame Errand,
and to do the fame Bufinefs, and who will not only
do it as well, but to be furc much better* It
is anfwer'd, the Sovereignty of Providence is not to
be difputed, He may do what he pleafes, and em-
ploy who he pleafes: but then the Wifdom of
Providence too is not known to aft inconliftent
with itfelfJ and, which is a fufficient Anfwer to all
the reft, we are allowed to judge of all thefe
things by our reafoning Powers, nor have we any other
Rules to judge byj and it can be no Crime to rea«
fon with calmnefs, and with due refpeft to fuperior
Power, upon the ordinary Adminiftration evea of
'Heaven itfelf.
I'll fuppofe that no Apparitions were allow'd
to fhew themfclves on Earth, but on Occafions of
fomeunufualCcnfequence, and that then they might
always be expefted j and there are many affirm it to be
.fo5 (tho' I openly fay I do not;) but fuppofe it, I fay %
and that whenever thefe things have appear'd it wa?
in efpecial Cafes, fuch as of manifeftlyinjur'd Right,
Oppreffion of Widows and Orphans, Wrong done
to Perfons unable to do themfelves Juftice, deprefs'd
Poverty, and many fuch Cafes which Souls arc faid
to be anxious about, even after Death 5 I fay, if it
were fo, the World is at this time (and, perhaps,
has always been) fo full of Violence, Injuftice,
H Fraud
p8 ^he Hijlory and Reality
Fraud and Oppreffion, that the Souls of our depar-
ted Friends would hardly ever be at reft.
How many weeping Widows, itarving Or-
phans and opprefs'd Families have in our Age fuf-
fer'd by the lofs of the Money which their Fathers
and other Anceftors left for their Subfiftance and
Eftablifhment in a certain City Chamber, or put
into a certain Exchequer upon the publick Faith ?
According to this Notion, neither the vifible or in-
vifible World would have been at Peace : the habi-
ted vifible World would have been continually
haunted with Ghofts, and we ihould never have
been quiet for the Difturbance of Spirits and Appa-
ritions : the invifible World would have been in a
continued Hurry and Uncafinefsj Spirits and Unem-
bodied Souls asking leave to go back again to feo
their Wills rightly perform'd, and to harrafs their
Executors for injuring their Orphans j and all the
Ages of Time would have been taken up in giving
Satisfa6tion to them in fuch and fuch Cafes.
I T was the Saying of a Roman^ (indeed, I mean,
a Roman in Religion) that it was a Sign to him,
paft all Difpute, that the Dead could never come to
the Quick, becaufe the Teftators of all thofe Cha-
tities given by departed Souls of Saints for the
Maintenance of Hofpitals, Chantries, Colleges,
Churches, and religious Houfes, as well in Money
as in Lands and Inheritances, did not walk, and
haunt King Hen. VJII, and pull him not out of his
Throne only, but out of his Grave, for taking a-
way, as he did, all thofe Rents and Revenues, Lands
and Eftates from the religious Houfes to which
they belong'd.
Now if they were not difquieted for fo great a
Piece of Injufticc, why fhould they be forcibly di-
fturb'd for Trifles, compar'd to thofe great Events?
A^s^AiN, fliould departed Souls get leave to come
back tp ihi^ World, to fee Juftice done to their Fa-
milies
of APPARITION S. y^
ihilies and Relations, how comes it to pafs that they
have not done it on fuch frequent Occafions as are
daily given them in the World ? And why do any
People enjoy peaceably the Eftates which they got
wrongfully ? The Works of Heaven are all perfecl.
Would he have fent Angels or Spirits to procure Ju-
ftice to be done only in Part, and not in the Whole ?
And how much Arrears is the wicked Part of the
World then in, to the better Part ? And whick
way is it poffible Right ihould now be done ?
Besides, to go back to publick Things j what
Rage, what Violences, Rapins, Ruins, not of Perfons
only, but of Nations, have we feen and heard of in
the World? and yet we fee Death purs an End to
all Grievance, or Complaints of Grievance whatfo-
ever; the departed Souls reft undifturb'd about it,
Refentment ail dies with them 5 and whatever the
Apparitions, which wc call Souls^ have pretended,
br we have prerended for them, the Souls them-
felves are perfe6tly unconcerned at it all.
What Apparitions have been, have certainly been
ofthofe blefled Angelick Spirits, who may fo far have
concern'dthemfelvesin fome Cafes of Violence, Op-
preffion, manifeft and atrocious Frauds, to allarm the
Offenders, and thereby bring them to do Right, as
well for their own good as for the Relief of the
opprefs'd Sufferers^ who, perhaps, have invok'dthe
Divine Juftice againft them.
Hence give me leave to obferve, tho' it is ftill
alitcle ferious, and perhaps you may think it is out of
the way, that 'tis not a thing of the leaft Concern
to us to have the Cry of the Poor againft us, or
to have the Widows and Orphans, who we have
injur'd and opprefs'd, look up to Heaven for Relief
againft us, when they, perhaps, have not Money
to go to Law, or to obtain or feek Remedy againft
us in the ordinary way of Juftice. I had much
rather have an unjuft Enemy draw his Sword upon
H 2. me,
I oo The Hijiory and Reality
me, than an injur'd poor Widow cry to Heaven
for Juftice againfi me 5 and I think I ihould have
much more Reafon to be afraid of the Laft than
the Firft, the Effe6t is moft likely to be fatal.
^oh. xxxiv. 2§. and E!}iod, xxii. 11, 2?. Te Jhall not
afflict any Widow or Fatherlefs Child: If thou affli^i
them in any wife^ and they cry at all unto me^ I will
furely hear their Cry ; and v. 24. jind your Wives,
jhall he Widows^ and your Children Fatherlefs. But
this is a Digreflion, and of a kind I ihall not fall of-
ten into.
But as much as I think there is Reafon to ap-
prehend the Prayers of the opprefs'd Widow and
Orphan, or of any injur'd Fellow- Creatures; yet I
muft acknowledge I fee no Reafon to be afraid of
their Ghofls, or of their Souls vifiting me, in order
to terrific me into a Change of the evil Pradice, and
a humour or refolve of doing Right to their Fa-
milies.
Conscience, indeed, is a frightful Apparition
itfelf, and I make no Queflion but it oftentimes
haunts an opprefling Criminal into Reftitution, and
is a Ghoft to him flceping or waking : nor is it the
Icafl: TeftimHny of an invifible World that there is
fuch a Drummer as that in the Soul, that can beat
anAllarm when he pleafes, and fo loud, as no other
Noife can drown ir, no Mufick quiet it or make it
huih, no Power filence it, no Mirth allay it, no
Bribe corrupt it.
Conscience raifes many a Devil^ that all the
Magick in the World can't lay, it (hows us many
an Apparition that no other Eyes can fee, and fets
Spe6tres before us with which the Devil has no
Acquaintance j Confcience makes Ghofts walk, and
departed Souls appear, when the Souls themfelves
itnow nothing of it.
This thing called Confcience is a ftrange bold
Difturber, it works upon the Imagination with an
invincible
£Pa^.ioi J -nr^u^ht .s.
!i
of APPARITIONS. loi
invincible Force j like Faith, it makes a Man
view things that are not, as if they were j feel
things that are not to be feir, fee things that
are not to be feen, and hear things that are not to
be heard 5 it commands the Senfes, nay even the
Tongue it felf, which is fo little under Command,
fubmits to this fovereign Mandate 5 and rho' I do not
fee that Confcience always over-rules it to Silence,
yet it often makes it fpeak, even whether it would
or no, and that to its own Ruin and Deftruftion 5
making the guilty Man accufe himfelf, and confels
what his Policy had before fo efFeftually conceaPd,
that no Eye had feen it, no Evidence could prove
it.
The Murtherer fees the murther'd Innocent as
plainly before his Eyes, as if he was adually fent
back from his Place to charge him 5 fiay^ he
fees him without Eyes, he is prefent with him
fleeping and waking ; he fees him when he is not
to be feen, and teftifies to his own Guilt, with no
need of other Witnels.
I HAVE heard a Story which I believe to be
true, of a certain Man who was brought to the Bar
of Juftice on Sufpicion of Murther, which how-
ever he knew it was not in the Power of human
Knowledge to dete6t. When he came to hold up
his Hand at the Bar, he pleaded, Not Guilty y and
the Court began to be at a Lofs for a Proof, no-
thing but Sufpicion and Circumftances appearing 5
however fuch Witnefles as they had they examin'd
as ufual 5 the Witnefs (landing up, as is ufual, upoa
a little Step, to be vifible to the Court.
When the Court thought they had no more
Witneflcs to examine, and the Man in a few Mo-
menits would have been acquitted j he gives a Stare
at the Bar, as if he was frighted j but recovering
his Courage a little, he llretches out his Arm to-
wards the Place where the Witnefles ufually Hood
H 3 .
to
lOZ The Hifiory dnd Realltj
to give Evidence upon Tryals, and pointing with
his Hand, My Lord, fays he, (aloud) that is not
fair, 'tis not according to Law, he's not a legal
Witnefs.
The Court is furpriz'd, and could not under^
Jftand what the Man meant > but the Judge^ a Man
of more Penetration, took the Hint, and checking
fome of the Court that offer'd to fpeak, and which
would have perhaps brought the Man back ggain
to himfelf 3 Hold, fays the Judge^ the Man fees
fomething more than we do, 1 begin to underftand
him J and then fpeak ing to the Prifoner,
Why, fays he^ is not he a legal Witnefs ? I be-
lieve the Court will allow his Evidence to be good,
v^hen he comes to fpeak.
No, my Lord, it cannot be juft, it can't be al-
lowed, y^;'^ the Prifoner^ (with a confufed Eagernefs
in his Countenance, that fhew'd he had a bold Heart
but a guilty Confcience.)
Why not, Friend, what Reafon do you give
for \i'^ fays the Judge.
My Lord, fays he^ no Man can be allowed to be
Winefs in his own Cafe 5 he is a Party, my Lord,
he can't be a Witnefs.
But you mii1;ake,y^^j the Judge^ for you are in-
dided at the Suit of the King, and the Man may
be a Witnefs for the King, as in cafe of a Robbe-
ry on the Highway we always allow the Perfon
robb'd is a good Witnefs 3 and without this the
Highway-man could not be convided^ but we
ihall hear what he fays, when he is examined.
This the Judge fpoke with fo much Gravity,
and fo eafie and natural, that the Criminal at the
Bar anfwer'd, Nay, if you will allow him to be a
good Witnefs, then I am a dead Man : the laft
Words he faid with a lower Voice than the refl,
but withal called for a Chair to fit down.
The
of APPARITIO JSI S. 103
The Court order'd him a Chair, which if he
had not had, 'twas thought he would have funk
down at the Bar 5 as he fat down he was obferved
to be in a great Confternation, and lifted up his
Hands feveral times, repeating the Words, a dead
Man^ a dead Man^ feveral times over.
The Judge, however, was at fome Lofs how to
a6t, and the whole Court appeared to be in aflrange
Confternation, tho' no body faw any thing but
the Man at the Bar 5 at length the Judge faid to
him. Look you Mr. calling him by his Name,
You have but one way left that I know of, and
I'll read it to you out of the Scripture j and fo
calling for a Bible he turns to the Book of Jofhua^
and reads the Text, "Jojh. vii. ip. And Jofhua [aid
unto Achan, my %ovi^ g^'^^i I pray thee^ Glory to ths
Lord God of Ifrael, and make ConfeJJion unto him^ and
tell me now what thou haft done^ hide it not from me.
Here the Judge exhorted him to confefs his
Crime, for he faw, no doubt, an Evidence ready to
convi6t him, and to difcover the whole Matter a-
gainft him> and if he did not confefs. Heaven
would, no doubt, fend Witnefs to deteft him. -
Upon this the felf-condemn*d Murcherer burft
out into Tears and fad Lamentations for his own
miferable Condition, and made a full Confef-
fion of his Crime j and when he had done, gave
the following Account of his Cafe, as to the Rea-
fons of his being under fuch a Surprize, 'viz. That
he faw the murther'd Perfon ftanding upon the
Step as a Witnefs, ready to be examined againft
him, and ready to fhew his Throat which was cut
by the Prifoner, and who, as he faid, ftood ftaring
full upon him with a frightful Countenance; and
this confounded him: (as well it might J and yet
there was no real Apparition, no Spe61:re, no Ghoft
cr Appearance, it was all figur'd out to him by
the Power of his own Guilt, and the Agitations of
H 4 his
104 ^^ Hiflory and Reality
his Soul, fir'dand furprifed by the Influence of Con-
fcience.
The Soul of the Murther'd Perfon feeks no
Revenge j all that Part is fwallowed up in the
Wonders of the eternal State, and Vengeance entirely
refign'd to him to whom it belongs 3 but the Soul
of the Murtherer is like the Ocean in a Temped:,
he is in continual Motion, reftlefs and raging 5 and
the Guilt of the Fa6l, like the Winds to the Sea,
lies on his Mind as a conftant Preflure, and adds
^o that, ((till like the Seas) 'tis hurry'd about by its
own Weight, rolling to and again. Motion encrea-
iing Motion, 'till it becomes a meer Mafs of Hor-
rour and Confufion.
I N this diftra6ted Condition, Confcicnce, like a
Storm at Sea, ftill breaks over him 5 firft gathers
about him in a thick black Cloud, threatning the
Deaths that it comes loaded with 5 and after hove-
ring about him for a-while, at lafl burfls with
Lightnings and Thunder, and the poor fhatter'd
VelTel fuffers Shipwreck, finks, and is ovcr-whelm'd
in the Middle of it.
I F Juftice does not overtake him, if he is not
difcover'd and deteded, and brought to publick
Shame, as the Laws of God and Man require 5 How
is he put to the Queftion (fo they call it in Coun-
tries abroad, when Men are put to the Rack ta
make them confefs) how is he tortur'd with the
Terrors of his own Thoughts , haunted with the
Ghofts of his own Imagination, and Apparitions
without Apparition? the murther'd Perfon is al-
ways in his Sight, and Cries of Blood are ever in
his Ears \ 'till at laft, lefs able to bear the Torture
of Mind than the Puniihment of his Carcafs, he
even dies for fear of Death, murthers himfelf, and
goes away in Horror \ or, if Heaven is merciful to
him, delivers himfelf up to Juftice, and dies a Pe-
nitent.
\
of AP P ARITIO N S. ,oy
I COULD give many flagrant Inftances of this,
enough to crowd up this whole Work, but I have
not room for it 5 take one or two for Examples.
A Gentleman, and a Man in good Circum-
ilancestoo, committed a Murther in or near St.Pan^
eras Soaper-Lane^ London^ many Years ago 5 the Mur-
ther was attended with fome very cruel and bar-
barous Circumfiances, fuch as he could not ex-
pert to be pardoned for, fo he fled, and making
his Efcape into France^ got out of the Reach of
Juflice.
His perfonal Safety was for a- while fo much
Satisfaction to him, that he did not make any Re-
flections at all upon the FaCbj but after a-while,^
he took fliipping from France^ and went over to
Martinico^ where he liv'd feveral Years j and even
for two or three Years he carried it off well e-
nough i but the firfl: Shock given to his Soul Was
in a Fit of Sicknefs, when being in Danger of
Death, he faw, as he wasr between fleeping and wa-
king, the Speftre, as he thought, of the murther'd
Perfon, jull as in the Pofture when he killed him,
his Wound bleeding, and his Countenance ghaft-
ly5 the Sight of which exceedingly terrify'd him,
and at length awaken'd him.
But being awake, and finding it was but a
Dream, and that the murther'd Perfon did not
really appear to him, and, as he call'd it, haunt him,
he was eafie as to that Partj but being in a high
Feaver, and believing he fliould die, Confcience
began to flare at him, and to talk to him j he
refifled a long time, but Death approaching, he
grew very penfive, tho', as he faid, flill more a-
fraid of dying, than penitent for his Crime.
After he recovered he grew eafic, and began
to forget things again j came over to Europe again,
and being at Roan in Normandy^ he dream'd he
faw the murther'd Man again, and that he look'd
frightful
oS The Hijiory and Reality
frightful and terrible j ^nd with a threatening
Afpe£t, and this threw him into a kind of Me-
lancholy, which encreas'd exceedingly v the Speftre,
as he caird it, coming to him every Night.
But this was not allj for now as he dreamed
of it all Night, fo he thought of it all Day 5 it
was, as we fay, before his Eyes continually, his
Imagination form'd Figures to him, now of this
kind, then of that, always relating to the mur-
ther'd Man 5 fo that, in ihort, he could think of
nothing elfe : And tho' he was fatisfied there was
no real Ghoft, as he called it, or Apparition, yet
his own terrified Confcience made the Thought
be to him like one continued Apparition, and the
murther'd Man was never out of his Sight.
He was fo reduced by the conftant Agitation
of his Soul, that he was in a very weak Condi-
tion, and in a deep Confumption: But in the midfl
of thefe Tumults of his Soul, he had a ftrong
Impreflion upon his Mind, that he could never
die in Peace, nor ever go to Heaven, if he did
not go over to England^ and either get the Par-
liament's Pardon (for it was in thofe Days when
there was no King in Ifrael) ox that if he could not
obtain a Pardon, that then he fhould furrender into
the Hands of Juftice, and fatisfy the Law with his
Life, which was the Debt he owed to the Blood
of the Man he kiil'd, and cou'd no other way be
expiated.
He withftood this as a wild diflra^ted thing,
and the Fruit of his difturb'd Mind: What, /aid
be to himfelf^ fhould I go to England for? to go
there is to GO and DIE5 and thefe Words, GO
and DIE, run daily upon his Mind : But tho' they
came firft into his Thoughts^ as an Anfwer to his
Qther Diilra6lions, yet they turn'd upon him foon
after, and he dream'd that the dead murther'd Man
feid to him^ GO and DIE5 and repeating it faid,
GO
of APP ARlfJO ivs. J07
G O to England and D I Ej and this follow'd him
by Night and by Day, afleep and awake, that he
had it always in his Ears, GO to England ^n6. DIE,
I N Ihort, and to pafs over fome Cirumftances,
tho' worth telling, which happen'd to him ia
the mean time, he was fo continually terrify'd by
the Reproaches of his Confcience, and the Voice
which he thought follow'd him, that he anfwer'd
it once in his Sleep thus 5 Well, if it muft be fo,
let me alone, I will GO and DIE.
I T was fome time however before he did 5 but at
laft, unable to fupport the Torture of his Mind, he
refolv'd to come over to England^ and did fo: He
landed at Gravefend^ and there took Paflage in the
Tilt-Boat for London,
When he arriv'd at London.^ intending to land
at Weftminfler^ he took a Wherry at Billinfgate^ to
carry him through Bridge. It happen'd, that two
Lighters loaden with Coals run foul of the Boat
he was in, and of one another, over-againffc ^een^
Hithj or thereabouts i and the Watermen were fo
very hard put to it, that they had much ado to a-
void being crufh'd between the Lighters, fo that
they were oblig'd to get into one of the Lighters,
and let the Boat fink.
This occafion'd him, contrary to his Defign,
to go on Shore a little to the Baft ward of ^men-Hith j
from thence he walk'd up on Foot towards Cheapr
Jtde^ intending to take a Coach for Weftminfter.
As he pafs'd a Street, which crofTes out of
Bread-flreat into Bow-lane^ being almoft Night,
and he not well knowing the Streets, having been
abfent eighteen Years, he heard fome body cry.
Stop him, flop him! It feems a Thief had broke
into a Houfe in fome Place, as he pafs'd by, and was
difcover'd, and ru^ for it, and the People after him,
prying Stop him, Stop him
loS -^^^ Hi/lory and Reality
It prefently occurr'd to him, that being fo near
the Place where the Murther was committed, and
where he had lived, fome body that knew him had {^tn
him, and that it was him they cry'd after 5 upon
which he began to run with all his Might.
Had the People cry'd flop "Thief^ he had had
no need to be alarm'd, knowing, as he faid, that
he had flolen nothings but the Crowd crying only
fiof him^ flop him^ it was as likely to be him as not}
and his own Guilt concurring, he run, as above,
A s he run with all his Might, it was a good
while before the People overtook himj but juft at
the Corner of Soaper-lane^ near about where now
flands the Rummer favern^ his Foot flipt, and his
Breath failing him too, he fell down.
The People, not knowing who he was, had
loft their Thief, and purfu'd him > but when they
came up to him, they found he was not the right
Perfon, and began to leave himj but his own
Guilty Confcience, which at firft fet him a run-
ning, and which alone was his realPurfuer, continu-
ing to follow him clofe, and which atlaft had thrown
him down too,foencreas'dhis Fright, that believing
they all knew him, he cry'd out, It is very true, I
am the Man, it was I did it.
I T feems, when he firft fell, fome People, who
upon hearing the Noife in the Street came run-
ning to their Doors, as is ufual in fuch Cafes 5 I fay,
fome People, at the Door of a Houfc, jult againll
where he fell, faid one to another. There he is,
that's he, they have catch'd himj and it was upon
that Saying that he anfwer'd. It is very true^ I
am the Man^ and 1 did it j for ftill he imagin'd they
knew him to be the Murtherer, that kill'd the Man
fo long ago 'y whereas there was no body there that
had any Knowledge of the Mat-ter, and the very
Memory of the thing was almoft forgotten in the.
Place, as it might well be, having been done eigh-
icen Years before. H^w-
of APPARITION S. 10^
However, when they heard him cry / am the
ManJ
and / did it^ one of the People that came a-
bout him faid, What did you do? Why, I kill'd
him, fays he 5 I kill'd Mr. and then re-
peated his Name J but no body remember'd the
Niimc.
Why, you are mad, fays one of the People > and
then, added another^ the Man's a diftradted, diforder'd
Man. They purfu'da little Shoplifting Thief, and
here they have frighted a poor Gentleman, that they
own is not the Perfon, but is an unhappy diforder'd
Man, and fancy'd they purfu'd after him.
But are you fure he is not the Man?
Sure? fays another > Why, they tell you fo
themfelves. Befides, the Man is diftrafted.
Distracted! fays a third^ how do you know
that ?
Nay, fays the other^ he mufl: be diftrafted, or in
Drink 5 don't you hear how he talks ? / did it^ I
kiird him^ and 1 don't know what. Why, here's
no body kill'd, is there? I tell you the poor Man is
craz'd. Thus they talk'd a-while, and fome run
forward towards Cheap-fde^ to look for the real
Thief, and fo they were about to let him go. But one
grave Citizen, and wifer than the reft, cry'd, nay
hold^ let's enquire a little further -^ tho' he's not the
Thief they look for, there may be fomething in it\
let us go before my hord Mayor ivith him: andfo they
did. 1 think the Lord Mayor then in Being, was
Sir William Turner.
When he came before the Lord Mayor, he
voluntarily confefs'd the Fa6t, and was afterwards
executed for it : and I had the Subftance of this Re-
lation from an Ear-wi|nefs of the thing, fo that I
can freely fay that I give entire Credit to it.
It was remarkable alfo, that the Place where
this Man fell down when he run, believing he was
purfued and known, tho' at firft he really was not,
was
liO The Hijiory and Reality
was juft againft the very Door of the Houfe where
the Perfon liv'd that he had murther'd.
Many Inferences might be drawn from this
Story, but that which is particulady to my Pur-
pofe, is, to fliew how Men's Guilt crowds their Ima-
gination with fudden and furprizing Ideas of things 5
brings Spedtres and Apparitions into their Eyes,
when there are really no fuch things j forms Ghofls
and Phantafms in their very View, when their Eyes
are {hut: They fee fleeping, and dream waking; the
Night is all Vifion, and the Day all Apparition,
'till either by Penitence or Punifhment they make
Satisfadion for the Wrong they have done, and
cither Juftice or the injur'd Perfon are appeafed.
But to bring all this back to our Bufinefs:
here's no other Apparation in all this, than what
are form'd in the Imagination j the Ghofls, the"
Souls of the moft injur'd Perfon, whether injuri-
oufly murther'd, or injurioufly robb'd and plun-
der'd, fleeps in Peace, knows nothing of the Mur-
therer or Thief, except only that it gives that Part
all up to the Eternal Judge: the Murtherer has the
Horror of the Fa6t always upon him, Confcience
draws the Pi6i:ure of the Crime in Apparition juft
before him, and the Reflc6bion, not the injur'd
Soul, is the Spe6tre that haunts him: Nor
can he need a worfe Tormenter in this Life; whe-
ther there is a worfe hereafter, or no, I do not pre-
tend to determine. This is certainly a IVorrn that
mver dles^.^tis always gnawing the Vitals, not of
the Body, but of the very Soul —But I fay, here
was no Apparition all this while of any kind, no
Spedre, no Ghoft, no not to dete6t a Murtherer.
1. No Devil or Evil Spirit 5 as for Satan, he
would rather prote6t, or at leaft fhelter him, that
he might commit another Murther.
2. No Soul of the deceafed, however injur'd j
the Man acknowledg'd he never faw any real Ap-
parition, What
7
of APP ARiriONS. Ill
What was it then the Man was exercis'd with ?
I anfwer, he was harrafs'd by the Refle6i:ion of his
own Guilt, and the Sluices of the Soul were fet
open by the Angels or Spirits attending, and who
by Divine Appointment are always at hand to ex-
ecute the vindi6bive Part of Jullice, as well as the
more merciful Difpenfations of Heaven, when they
have them in Commiflion.
These abandon'd him to the Fury of an en*
rag'd Confcience, open'd the Sluices of the Soul, as
I call them, and pour'd in a Flood of unfufferable
Grief, letting loofe thofe wild Beafts call'd Paffions
upon him, fuch as Rage^ Angidjh^ Self-reproach^
too late Repentance^ and final Defperation^ all to fall
upon him at once 5 ^o the Man runs to Death for
Relief, tho' it be to the Gallows, or any v/here,
and that even by the meer Confequence of Things.
But if then Opprellion, Injury, Robbery, and
even Murther it felf, will not bring the departed
injur'd Soul back in Ghoft or Apparition j if whea
it is once Uncas'd, Difmifs'd, or Unembodied, its
State is determined, and that it can receive no fuch
Impreflions as to be difquieted afterwards, much
lefs brought back hither to haunt or perplex the
Perfons left behind, what then fhall we fay ?
How then can we think they fhould come back
for Trifles, namelefs Trifles, or Trifles not worth
naming? and what are we to call thofe real Appa-
ritions which we have Reafon to believe are, and
frequently have been feen in the World? what are
they, nay, what can they be, but thefe Angels or
Spirits, call them what you will, who inhabit, of
have their Station in the great Void or Waft? who
have the Guard, not of our Atmofphere only, nay
not of the Solar SyftemonXy^ tho' that is of Immenle
and Inconceivcablc Exteot, and full of diftant Pla-
netary Worlds, but even of the whole Syftem of
the Creation, the Syflem oi Empty Space,
These
1 1 i The Hijlory and Reality
These may, and no doubt do vifit us every
Day, whether they are vifible to us or no 5 their
Bufinefs is among us, they are pofted in their
Station as defcrib'd, on purpofe to take Cogni-
zance of uSy and of things belonging to us, and done
by us.
I F Murther, Rapine, and Oppreffion is exercis'd
upon any, thefe frequently, if not always, concern
themfelves, either to dcted it, or to bring the Of-
fender to Juftice, or both, efpecially in Cafes of
Blood : And this is the beft way we can account
for the Difcovery of Murther, which is fo general,
that it is our received Opinion, that Murther very
feldom goes undifcover'd j that Murther *will
€utj that is, will come out to be known and
puniftied.
If inftead of faying Murther very feldom goes un*
difcover'd^ they had {^id feldom goes unpunijh'd^ I be-
lieve it might have been univerfally true 5 for fome-
times fecret Murthers are never difcover'd to the
Perfons who knew of the Fa6t, or in the Place
where it was committed : but how are they purfu*d
by the Divine Vengeance, that is to fay under the
Miniftry of thefe happy Inftruments, who fail noc
to purfue the Murtherer? perhaps it may be the only
Cafe wherein they are Agents of Juftice, without a
mixture of Mercy.
How many fecret, and 'till then undifcover'd
Murthers do thefe happy Inftruments oblige the
guilty Wretches to difcovcr, which no Human
Eye had been Witnefs to ? Some are difco-
ver'd, as in the Example above, and brought to
Punifliment: Some at the Gallows, whither the
Criminal is brought for other Crimes j fome upon
fick Beds, and in View of Eternal Judgment 5 fomc
in Shipwrecks, fome in Battels, fome one way,
fome another.
Nor
of APPARniO NS. 113
Nor can it be deny'd, that tho' thefe angelick
miniftring Spirits were to be conftant MefTengers
of Jufticc in fuch Cafes, yet it would be much
more merciful than to give the Soul of the injur'd
murther'd Perfon leave to come back arm'd with
Power, and with theTerrors ofits invifible State,to do
it felf Juftice, inflam'd with the Refentments which
it might be reafonable to fuppofe it muft have at
the Injury received, able to tear the Murtherer in
Pieces, and in Condition to carry on its own Quar-
rel, and execute the Divine Juftice, in revenge of
its private Quarrel.
1. This would be inconfiftent with the fu*
preme Prerogative of Heaven, by which he has
taken all executive Juftice into his own Hand, all
Retribution, all retaliating Juftice 5 and that on
purpofe to reftrain the Rage and Fury of Men,
who would be unbonnded in the vindidive Part,
and fet no Limits to their Vengeance j which for
that very Reafon, I fay, God has declar'd he takes
into his own Hand; Fengeance is Mine, I will re*
fay. Rom. xii. ip.
2. I F it were not thus, the World would be a
Field of Blood and Confufion, the departed Soul
of a murthered Perfon would be always harraffing,
not the Murtherer only, but all the Perfons concerned
in his Injury ; and without Mercy would call every-
one a Murtherer, that was on the fide of his Ene-
my, whether guilty or not j in a word, fuppofe he
dy'd fighting, he would come back to revenge his
own Death, fir'd with a double Rage, and arm'd
with an irrefiftible Ability to revenge.
But not to confine my felf to the Cafe of a
Murtherer only ; If Souls after Death could re-
turn to vifit thofe who they had any Concerns /
with here, let the Occafion be what it would, the
World would be all Confufion and Diforder j Quar-
rels aad Contentions would never ceafe, Feuds
I of
114 T^^^ Hijlory and Reality
of Families would not die, but the injur'd Perfon
would always come back to right himfelf.
A N D how do we know that they would, even
in that enlightned State of Being, be impartially
jull, confidering they would ad in their own
Caufes? Are we fure they would not infift upon
pretended Right, as they did perhaps when living?
iffo, thtn we muft have Appeals even from the
Spirits themfelvesjfor they would be as liable to do
Injury in their Revenge, as thofe yec living had
been to do to them.
Here we might make a rational Excurfion up-
on the prefent State of Things : What would be the
cafe, if all the injur'd Souls now in a determin'd
State, were able to come back, and demand Juftice
of the prefent Age ? what work would it make a-
mong us ? how many wealthy Landlords would be
turn'd out ofPofreffion,and rich Tradefmen oblig'd to
refund ? How would the fbrong OpprefTor be chal-
leng'd by the weak, the injur'd Poor be the ruin
of the Rich ? How many Adulterers would be
bound to diflodge from the Arms of the fair Intru-
der ? How many injur'd Ladies would claim their
Properties, and turn the Ufurpers out of Bed ?
How would young >
be call'd upon to
do right to a whole Family, whofe Tears tor the
marrying one Sifter, and debauching the other,havc
hitherto been in vain ? How would the civil Rape
be difcover'd, and the Artifices be deteded, which
broke two Hearts, for want of doing right to one ?
How long ago would the Soul of
have appear'd to do her felf Juftice, which
a wheedl'd C a brib'd and a fleepy
deny'd her, and to demand the Sentence,
which the plain acknowledgment of her Murthe-
rers cou'd not extort from them ?
How would ihe have haunted the Retirement of
the guilty Wretch, and have beaten him out of all
his
of. APPARITIONS. iij
his Subterfuges, 'till he had come upon his Knees to
the Hangman, and begg'd to be difmifs'd from a
Hell fo muchworfe than that he had reafon to expert
he was going to? or havebeen his own Drudge, and
have anticipated Juftice by an immediate difpatch ?
But they have been left to the Iron Hands of
yet flumbring Juilice 3 which Confcience (however
it may at prefent forbear) mufh foon tell them, will
be not the lefs certain for the delay.
But let us leave the Mechanick Criminals, and
enquire of the fuperior Ranks of Men : How ma-
ny ufurping Tyrants pofTefs the Thrones of op-
prefs'd, and perhaps murther'd Princes j while the
Blood of Armies, nay, of whole Nations (fpeaking
as to Number) has been facrific'd to fupporc the
Ambition of one Man?
What Mercy to Mankind has the fupreme
Lord exhibited, in this wife allotment of Things ?
"vl-z. That the Grave buries all the Rage of humane
Refentment ; the OpprefTed and the Opprefior reft
together J the Murtherer and the Murtheredj the
moft inveterate Enemies 3 the conquer'd in Battel,
and the Slain of the conquering Army, make one
heap of quiet and peaceable Duft,blcnded together,
and mould'ring into the common Element of
Earth.
All the Animofity, being fled with the enrag'd
Souls,carries with it the very remains of the Quarrel,
and they no more appear Enemies, but freely encor-
porate their Duft with one another. The late D.
Ha -71^ might have been buried in the fame
Grave, nay, in the fame Collin, with the Lord
Mo ——;^ J and their Swords left in their Hands 5 the
Souls of the noble Enemies would never have
concerned themfelves again with the Quarrel.
Heaven, who thought fit to cool the Rage of
their Minds, by their own unhappy Hands, and
make 'em reciprocally the Executioners of the T>i-
i z vine
1 6 The Hifiory and Reality
vine Pleafure upon themfelves, has thought fit alfo
to take from both the power of determining any
more who was right, and who was wrong, and
oblig'd them mutually to refer the further enquiry
to himfelf.
The two Danijh Soldiers who fought at Be-
*i)erly^ one kill'd upon the fpot,and the other imme-
diately fhot to Death for fighting, and buried to-
gether J there they lie quiet in one Grave, the
Souls of them never vifit one another, to complain
of the Injury.
Could Souls departed come back to demand
Redrefs of Grievances, and to put Men in mind of
the Injuftice done themj could they challenge the
living PofTefTors of their Eftates for the Frauds by
which they were obtained > what Confufion would
Exchange-Alley and the Exchange of London be in?
what diftra^lion would it make in all the Afirairs of
Life ? and how foon would the Men who amafs'd
immenfe Wealth, Ann, ijio^ difappear, like^
of Hack ,and fink under the guilt of their good
Fortune ?
In a word, it would invert the Order of Eter-
nal Juftice, for it would make this Earth be the
Place of Rewards and Punifhments, and take the
Executive Power out of the Hands of the great
Governour of the World.
Depend then upon it, the Souls of our de-
parted Friends, or Enemies, are all in their fix'd and
determin'd State 5 whether arriv'd at a full Confum-
mation of Felicity or Mifery, that is not the cafe,
nor is it any part of the Queition 5 but they are fo
remov'd from all poflibility of return Hither, or
concern with us, that the very Suggeftion, however
it has for many Ages prevailed in the World, is full
of Abfurdity. The Joys of the Happy are fo com-
pleat, fo exalted, fo fuperior, that the greatefl: Af-
fairs of this World are too trifling, to take up the
leaft
of AP PARITIO NS. 117
leaft Moment, or give the leaft Interruption to
their Felicity > as a poor or mean Man, that having
a vaft Eftate left him in his immediate PoflefHon,
quits his decay'd out-of-repair Cottage upon the
Wafte, and having his Hands full of Goldj^'or even
Bags of Gold, fcorns to take up the Rags and Rub-
bifh of his old dirty Habitation 5 but fays to his
Servants, Let any one take 'em that will, 1 have
enough here.
O N the other hand, the reje6led and condemn'd
Soul, loaded with his own Crime, and finking un-
der the Weight of inexpreflible Horror > fhall he
have any thought about the hated World he came
out of! he who abhors and hates the place where he
fpent a long Life of fuch Crime, as now loads him
with infupportable Punifhment, is he at leifure,
or in compofure for concerning himfelf in Life any
more, where he has already fo miferably ruin'd him-
felf. Soul and Body
I F he was to come back hither for any thing,
it would probably be to take the heaps of his ill-
gotten Treafure from the unjuft PoflelTor, his
Heir j and rriaking reftitution with it to the Poor,
whom he had opprefs'd, to the Widows he had
robb'd, and in general to all thofe he had injur'd,
leave his Family in Poverty and Rags, inftead of
their Robes and Velvets and in Hofpitalsand Alms-
houfes, rather than Palaces and Parks, and with
Coaches or Horfes. Proving the Proverb untrue,
and fliowing that the Son may not be always
Jiappy, tho' the Father be gone to the DeviL
J D o u B T it would make but fad work among
fome Families, who now poflefs large Eftates j if
the Notion fome People entertain about Spirits, and
about haunting of Houfes, fhould be true : Namely,
that the Souls departed could not be at reft 'till Sa-
tisfa61:ion was made in fuch and fuch cafes, where
Injury had been done to Orphans and Widows 5 and
I 5
'uU
1x8 The H'tftor^ and Reality
'till fuch Injuftice was prevented as was farther
like to be done by their means.
As to what Reft the Souls of thofe departed
would have, I am not to refolve \ but I doubt the
Souls and Bodies too of thofe that remain, would
have fmall Reft here, if that were true.
Is it not rather a Proof that the Soul cannot re-
turn hither, to do Right to the injur'd race of
thofe whom it had opprefs'd with Violence, when
embodied, that the Ghoft or Soul of fleeps
in its abi'ent Stare, and does not call upon his too
happy Heir, and charge him to make reparation in
its Name, for all the Ravages and Plunder, out of
which he raisM thofe Millions he left behind ? If
Ufury, Extortion, Perjury and Blood are Injuries
that difquiet the Souls unembodied. How is it
that the Souls'of all the Families, and even Nati-
ons of Families opprefs'd and ruin'd by the late
do not come and do thcmfelves right out of the
immenfe Wealth, left in pofleffion to thofe, who,
'till that Juftice be obtained, could have no Claim
to it ?
But to let the Injur'd and the Injurious fleep
together, as they do, without difturbing or being
difturb'd by one another, let us ask a few Qiieftions
of the living? How would a certain wandring
Right Honourible, moft fimply elevated Obje6t of
human Pity, be terrified at the Apprehenfions of
meeting the difhonour'd Souls ofhis Anceftors? and
particularly of his pious Grandfather, who would
if it were poffible chaftife him for his Lunacy, and
drive him home to the Feet of a merciful Sovereign,
to ask Pardon for the moft prepofterous things that
ever humane Rage drove any Man in his Senfes to
be guilty of!
I F the Souls of wife Men could be difquieted
for the mad things done by their Pofterity, what
Regret muft the Anceftors of all the exil'd Heirs of
Noble
of APPARITIO NS. 119
Noble Blood now have, who fee their Sons forfeiting
the plentiful Fortunes they left them, by the mod
ridiculous and utterly improbable Scheme of the late
Prefion and DumMam Affm} an Attempt without
Succefs, becaufe without rational Profpe6t, without
humane Probability J and for which, as the late happy
Lord Derwentwater faid, they fhould not have been
fent to the fower^ but to Bedlam,
J F Souls could return, how fliould our Friends
the j4 — -s and B s and S-^^—s fleep in
their Beds, while they enjoy the ruins of fo many Fa-
milies, and the fortunes of fo many Sufferers, who
hang d themfelves in Defperation for the lofs? and
why do they not fee Apparitions every Night from the
injur'd Ghofts of- L^ Ba JV
i7/^—-*-and a thoufand more> who, could they re-
pafs the Gulph, would certainly harrafs them, 'till
they ihould be glad to difmifs themfelves the fame
way, and run to that Hell which they know no-
thing of, from that Hell of Self-reproach, which
they would be no longer able to endure ?
1 COULD defcend to Particulars, 'till I fill'd a
Roll too long for your readings and I know not
whether it might not be true, as Sir PF—— B- d
faid in another cafe, that he believ'd all would come
up that was under Ground, and his Grandfather
would come with the reft and call for his Eftate again.
The Do6lrine of difquiet Souls returning hi-
ther, to do or obtain Juftice, to make or demand
Reftitution, and that they could not be at reft 'till
fuch and fuch things were fettled. Wills performed,
difpoffefs'd Heirs righted, conceal'd Treafons difcd-
ver'd, conceal'd Treafures found out, and the like,
were it true, would make the World uninhabitable;
Ghofts and /Apparitions would walk the Streets at
Noon- Day 5 and the living might go on one fide
of the Street, and the dead on the other j the
latter would be infinitely more numerous.
I 4 Would
120 The Hlfiory and Reality
Nothing can be more propofterous than
fuch a Notion. It is true, that the examples given,
or pretended to be given, of it, are but few, and
that very part is againll them 5 for if the thing is
real, why are they but few ? It muft be acknow-
ledg'd, as the times go, the cafes of the injur'd and
opprefs'd are not few: On the contrary, as God
faid of the old World, the whole Earth is fill'd
with Violence. Whence is it then, if injured Souls,
or the Souls of injur'd, opprefs'd, ruin'd People
could return, that there are not Millions haunting
the Doors, nay the Clofets and Bed-Chambers, of
thofe that enjoy the Wealth which was fo unjuftly
obtain'd ?
If it could be at all, the Number would be in-
finitely more j for why Ihould one guilty Soul be
uneafy, and not another? All the guilty would come
back to make Reftitution as far as they were able,
and all the Sufferers would come back to obtain
it.
A G A I N, the Condition ofthofe that enjoy the ill-
gotten Wealth of their Anceftors would be deplo-
rable : the Souls of guilty Parents would harrals
their Sons for the Eftate, to make Reftitution > and
the Souls of the opprefs'd Sufferers would haunt
them, to get their ownreftor'd: fo that they only
would be eafy in the World, who had nothing to
reftore, or who enjoyed nothing but what was of
their own getting; they only would fleep at Night
who had ballanc'd with the Day, who had earn'd
what they Eat, and had Eaten no more than they
earn'd.
But this we fee is not the cafe: that the Souls
of the molt guilty remain where they are, and the
Souls of the moft opprefs'd do not come hither to
complain, ftrongly implies, and is to me a fufficienc
proof, that their State is determin'dj that the
Gulph is fixed 3 that they can only look back with
Self'
of APPARITIONS, ixi
Self-Reproach, but cannot comeback to givethem-
felves the Satisfa6tion of doing Juftice to thofe they
have injur'dj that the murther'd Perfon cannot
comeback, no, not to dete6t the Murthererj or
the plunder'd Traveller to difcover the Highway-
man. It is plain to me, and will pafs for Evidence,
that they cannot, becaufe they do not 5 and 'tis plain
to me that fome do not, becaufe all do not 5 for if
any, why not all ?
I T does not confift with the inlightned Juftice of
that State which we believe is beyond Life, to let
one injured Soul come hither to obtain Juftice a-
gainft the Oppreffor of his Family, and not let ano-
ther have the fame Liberty } or to let one injuri-
ous Soul return to make Reflitution, and make his
Peace, that he may be at Reft, as they call it j and
lock up another from it, who would be equally
willing to do it, and is equally miferable in the
want of it.
That it is not fo, is a fufEcient Teftimony to
me that it cannot be fo 5 and the miferable Con-
dition the World would be in here, if it were fo,
makes it clear to me that the Wifdom of Provi-
dence has otherwife determined it.
Nor would the Advantage beany thing con-
fiderable, at leaft not in proportion to the Difor-
der it would bring along with it 5 and were we to
allow the Poffibility, it would bring in fo many
Abfurdities with it in Points of Religion, that it
would deftroy the eftablifh'd Do61:rines of all Reli-
gion : For Example,
FIRSt, We believe that the final Eftate of the
Soul is determined with Life, and as the 'Tree falls
fo it muft lie 5 that this is the State of Tryal^ That the
State of Retribution : If fo then, to what purpofe
fhould the Souls of the Dead defire to come back,
unlefs they were to have a farther Probation, or
;hat there was a Poffibility of retrieving their State,
8 and
jtz The Hifipry and Reality
and recovering from the Sentence they were under ?
and if the divine Wifdom had left room for that^
it would have as wellfpared them in Life 'till it had
been done.
SECONDLY^ To what Purpofe fhould the
Soul come back to do Juftice, if doing that Juftice
could make no Altera; ion of its future State? It it
could make any Alteration, then there muft be
room after Death to recover the Soul from eternal
Death i and if there was, the Eyes may be fup-
pofed to be fo open'd there, that none would omit
or negle6b it.
I'M IRD LT^ If coming hither, or doing Ju-
ftice here, can be no Help to the Souls departed,
and yet they dcfire it, you muft then fuppofe a
llrong Defire of doing difinterefted Good may pof-
fefs the Souls of thole who are in a State of Con-
demnation j which is inconfiftent with the other
Circumftances of Hell, which we have juft Rea-
fon to believe fhuts out all good Defires, and all
good Principles, from the Souls that are there.
FO UR fHL r, The Suppofition of Souls being
in a Condition after Death to return hither, deftroys
all the Defcriptions which the Scripture gives us of
the fi:nTre Condition, either of the good or bad
Souls: but that I hinted before.
Upon the whole, 'cis a Notion, however it
may have been received here, perfe61:ly inconliftent
with either Reafon or reveal'd Religion > and I may
venture to fay it cannot be, 'tis impoflible, and that
all the Pretences of a Ghoft or Apparition faying it I
is fuch a Perfon, and 'that it cannot be at Reft
'till fo and fo be done, and that now it fhall go to
God, muft be a Delufton, and muft be added by ;
the Perfons relating the Story > for that no Ghoft
or Spirit really happy could fay fo, or would impofe
fo much upon us.
CHAP.
of APPARITIONS. iij
CHAP, VIIL
The Reality of Apparition farther ajferted^
and what Spirits they are that do really
appear,
THE affirming, as in the foregoing Chapters,
that the unembodied Souls of Men do not ap-
pear again, or concern themfelves in the Affairs of
Lifej that the Good would not if they could, and
the Bad could not if they would 5 does not at all de-
flroy the Reality of the thing call'd Apparition, or
do I pretend to argue from thence that there is no
fuch thing as any Apparition at all: on the contra-
ry, I indft it is reafonable to believe (notwichftand-
ing all that has been faid) that there are fuch things
as the Apparition of Spirits j and this I think I
have already prov'd pail the Power of any Scruple
or Cavil, as alfo that there have been fuch things
in all Ages of the World.
The Dodrine of the Exiftence of Spirits is e-
ftabliihed in Nature 5 where thofe Spirits reGde, is
Matter of Difficulty, and our Speculations are va-
rious about them j but to argue that therefore
there are none, that they exift not, fthat there are
no fuch Beings, is abfurd, and contrarjTto the Na-
ture of the thing-, we may as well argue againll the
Exiftence of the Sun when it is clouded and eclips'd,
tho' we fee its Light, only becaufe we cannot fee
its Beams, or the Globe of its Body : But let us go
back to the Principle.
Spirit, as it is to he confidefd here^ is to be re-
duced to four general Heads.
124 ^^ Hi^ory and Reality
FIRST^ The Author of all Spirit, the Fountaiir
of all Being, the Original Caufe of Life, and the
Creator both of Spirit and of all the Subfequents of
it. This we juftly adore, as the Infinite Eternal Spi-
rit: GOZ) h a SP IRIt.
SECONDLY, Angels or good Spirits 5 which
are real Spirits, we have Demonftration of it, and
they have and do appear daily, as the great Author
of all Spirit direfts, for the Service of Mankind, for
they are minijiring Spirits.
THIRDLY, Devils or evil Spirits 5 thefe are
~
really Spirit too, of a fpirituous Nature j 'tis true
they are deprived of their Beauty, their Original
Glory, becaufe depriv'd oftheir Innocence 5 they are
deform'd as well as defil'd by Crime, but they are not
depriv'd of their Nature j they are Spirits Itill, the*
caft down and caft out, and are call'd wicked Spirits.
FOUR'YHLY, Souls of Men, whether good
or bad 5 their Condition may be as you pleaie to
fpeak of it, Happy or Unhappy > the Cale is the
fame, it does no way alter their Nature, but ftill
they are Spirits. The Spirits ofjuji Men made perfeU-^
there's the happy Spirits: the Spirits in Prifon,
and there's the unhappy 5 but both are Spirits, and
are to be difcours'd of as fuch in this Place.
Now let us bring all this down to our prefent
Purpofe. I have aflerted their Being, let me en-
quire into their State, as it refpedbs our Subject 5
how far they may or may not, can or cannot ap-
pear among Men, in their prefent Circumftances.
How they have vifited this Earth at feveral Times,
and on what Occafions, has been mentioned alrea-
dy, and as much at large as the defign'd Brevity of
this Work admits of.
It remains to enquire what we have to expeft
of them for the future, and in particular, who we
may expe6t to fee at any time hereafter j which of
them may vifit us for the time to come, and which
may
of APPARITIONS, I2J
may not, or can not be reafonably expefted j and
this I fhall do with the fame Clearnefs if poffible,
and in very few Words.
Of the four Kinds of Spirit, then, letusconfider
the Firft and the Laft.
FIRSr, GOD, the Soul and Life, the Being
of all SpiritJ
has appear'd, as I have faid 5 but we
are to cxpe£t him no more : I do not fay he can-
not appear to us, but I believe I may fay he has
determined to blefs the World with no more fuch
glorious Exhibitions, no more perfonal Appear-
ances of the Eternal Face, 'till the moft glorious
Appearance fpoken of in Scripture, Tit, ii. ij.
Looking for the hleffed Hope and the glorious appear"
ing of the GREAT GOD
SECONDLT^ The difmifs'd, departed, un-
embodied Spirits, which we call Souls of Men,
whether happy or miferable, can by no means ap-
pear among us; all Apparition of that Kind is fi£ti-
tious and imaginary j never was practicable, except
once by Miracle, and never can again be practi-
cable, and therefore is not to be expeCted. We are
told indeed, that once, on the extraordinary Occa-
fion of the Refurredion of Chrift, and to honour
that Refurre6tion with a Miracle of the moft fu-
blime Nature, the Graves were opened^ and the Bodies
ofthe Saints arofe and appeared^ ^c. The Word is they
Arofe^ and came out of their Graves after his Re-
furre(9:ion, Mat. xxvii. f 5. I might enlarge upon
the Nature of this Apparition of the Saints which
flept; the manner of it, and efpecially the Reafon
of it, and fhew you how it was really miraculous,
and done to convince the doubting Difciples of the
Truth of the RefurrcCbion, which fome of them,
being perhaps originaly Sadduces, might ftill que-
llion 'y but my Buiinefs is with an Age not too much
delighted in ferious Excurfions, fo I muft not make
any Trefpafs, however feafonable, or turn grave,
however ufcful. Let
ii6 '
The Hf/iory and Realtty
Let it then be fufficient to the Purpofc, this
Apparition of Souls was extraordinary and mira-
culous, and we are to expe6t them no more 5 their
State is determined, the happy are too happy, and
their Happinefs too firmly fix'd, to fuffer any fuch
Interruption 5 the Unhappy have their Confine-
ment too firmly fix'd, to break Prifon, and get
out> in a word, thefe cannot, and the other would
not if they could j and we are not to cxpe6t to
fee or hear from them any more on this Earth 5
'till the Reftitution of all things, and 'till they
fhall be all fummon'd to that grand i\.ppearance, which
we believe will one Day happen, whatever our
flaming Age pretend to fay to the contrary.
All Apparition then of thefe two Heads or
Species being concluded impoflible in Nature, and
not to be expe6ted, we muft look for it then a-
mong the Angelick Spirits 5 and here indeed it is to
be found : Angels of all the Kinds have appear'd,
may and do appear, and of them alone are all the
Apparitions, which have any Reality in them, form'd.
This is bringing the Matter into a narrow
Compafs, and putting an end to Cavil and Quar-
rel about it 5 there is no need to wrangle upon
it any more 5 but when you at any time fee
an Apparition, or Appearance of Spirit afluming
Shape and Voice, and you are furc it is really an
Apparition, not a Deceptio Fifus^ a Cloud, a Va-
pour of the Imagination 5 I fay, whenever you fee
fuch an Apparition, depend upon it 5 'tis an Angel,
or a Devil.
I HAVE only one Diftin6]:ion to make here,
which tho' it be neceffary, fhall be very fhort and
clear, viz. That when I fpeak of Angels I muft
be underftood as follows,
FIR S 7, The Word Angel is to be underftood
of good Angels 5 for the Devils^ as I have faid, arc
alfo Angels: Satan is called an Angel qf Light;
but
of APPARITIO NS. 127
but the evil Angels I fhall always treat with their
new Sirname, Devil -, fo that when I fpeak of An-
gels, I am always to be underflood of the good
Angels.
SECONDLT, But of good Angels, thefe I di-
ftinguifli alfo into two Kinds:
(I.) The Angels which are aflually in Hea-
ven, fuch as we read of, Gabriel^ Michael^ and
others not diftinguifhed by Name ; thefe have ap-
peared amongft Men, upon this Earth, as I have
alfo faid before at large j but even thefe, we have
Reafonto believe, we ihall fee no more 5 God having
pleafed to difcover himfelf to his People now in a-
nother Way, by another Miniflration, namely, by
his Spirit, and by an Evangelick, not an Angelick
Miniilry.
(2.) That Rank of Angels or Spirits, call
them as we pleafe, (and whether inferior or not,
we are not to determine,) who are plac'd by
the Direction of God himfelf in a nearer Situation
to us J plae'd, I fay, by their Maker, under his fu-
perior Providence, for the Diredion and Condu6fc
of human Creatures, and of their Affairs, or at leafl
to Guard them from the Invafions, Threatning,
and Helliih Defigns of the Prince of Darknefs and
his Angels 5 and thefe, as I faid, might well becall'd
Guardian Angels to the whole Earth.
Now, thefe two forts of Spirit, viz. the Guar-
dian Angels, the good Spirits detach'd, as I may
and did call it, from Heaven, to have the Infpedtion
over, and Care of his new Creation, as well here
as elfewhere 5 thefe, and the Devih^ that other fort
of Angels, of whom I may have Occafion to fpeak
(more than a great deal) in this Work 5 Thefe, I fay,
may, and do appear, and all Apparition is really be-
tween them i all Spirit you can fpeak of, or pretend
to fee the Appearance of, muft be one of thefe two,
inuft be Jngel or Dm/, there is no other, there
can
i8 The Hijlory afid Reality
can be no other: Miracle, and fomething more than
miraculous, and Things which we have no Reafon.
to look for, only excepted.
B u T on the other hand, as certain as that no o-
ther Spirit does, or can, and as certainly as they
do not, or cannot appear j fo as certain, and paft
difpute is it, that thcfe Spirits, both good and bad,
do appear to us upon all Occafions ; I mean all
Occafions which they judge needful, and which
happens to them, whether by choice or conftraint.
It is not indeed in us to determine how they are
mov'd to go upon thefe Errands, or in what man-
ner> I may perhaps give fome probable Opinions
about the Manner and Caufes both of their Miflion
and Permiflion 5 for I take thofe two Heads to con-
tain the Regulation of their A6tings j I fay d^mmif-
fton and Permiffion^ and without thefe we are fure
never to be vifited in this manner, either by one or
other.
I T is true that this gives a confiderable Sanfbion
to the Thing call'd Apparition in general, and
makes it appear to be more folemn than we are
willing to make ic> for by this Rule, neither De^
vil or Angel appears but upon fome extraordinary
Occafioni and if it be fo, I do not fee why we
(hould like it the worfe 5 for if they were to fhew
themfelves upon every trifling Occafion, they
would either terrific Mankind fo as to make the
World intollerable to him, or familiarife themfelves
fo as not to be regarded.
Now as it would be the Devil^ not the good
Spirits, that would thus haunt the World upon
Trifles $ (for the other cannot be fuppofed to do it)
fo they would carry on the Familiarity too far, and
Men would be fo far from being frighted and ter-
rified at him, that in fhort there would be more
Danger in the Intimacy j and, as we fay in another
Cafe,
of APP ARiriONS. i2p
Cafe, Mankind, and the Devil mighc be too well
acquainted.
But firft to the FaQ:, that thefe Spirits, both
good and bad, D o thus A p p e a r 5 and then to the
Reafon of it. That they do appear, the Hiflory,
Experience, and Report of all Ages confirm it>
they always have, and ftill do. The Appearances of
Spirits are confirmed many ways, Hiftory is fuUof
Examples 5 and facred Hiftory itfelf, tho' it does not
give Relation of particular Apparitions, yet con-
firms the thing, as a Reality, and out of Queftion.
Christ himfelf, after his Refurreftion, feeing
his Difciples frighted and terrified at his Appearance,
takes a great deal of Pains to convince them that
he was not a Spirit or an Apparition, as they feared
huke xxiv. \j, 'They were terrified and affrighted<y and
fuppos*d that they had feen a Spirit, This would be
what it is too difhonourable to fay of the facred
Writ, if Apparition of Spirit in the Shape of Bo-'
dy did never come^ and that there were no fuch
thing in Nature.
See then what our blefled Lord fays to them
upon it, V, 3p. Behold my Hands and my Feetj
that it is Imyfelf: handle me^ andfee j for a Spirit hath
not Flejh and Bones^ as ye fee me have. This is as
dire£t and pofitiye as any thing of its kind can
be fuppos'd, or defir'd to be. If there were no
fuch things as Spirits appearing, how could Jefus
Chrifthavc exprefled himfelf in fuch a manner? the
Language is plain, You think you fee a Spirit, that
is an Apparition, and you may have fome Reafons
for your Apprehe.nfion, becaufe I came in thus un-
feen, when the Door was fhut ; Now a Spirit
may indeed afTume a Shape, and look like the Per-
fon it appears for j but if you were to come near
to it, you would find a Spirit, an Apparition, has
only the Appearance, it has not Fkfj and Bones as
K you,
tjo 7^^ Htjlory and Reality
you fee me have : Therefore I am not a SpeEire or
Apparition^ but a real Body.
So when he came walking upon the Sea to his
Difciples, and they were fo frighted that they cried
out, believing that they had feen a Spirit 5 it mail
be out of Queftion that there were fuch things, and
that they, the Difciples, had heard of them j nay,
perhaps, they had feen fuch Apparitions themfelves
before thatj why elfe fliould they be fo frighted as
to cry out, Matth, xiv. 2(5. And when the Difciples
faw him walking on the Sea^ they were troubled^ fay"
ingy It is a Spirits and they cried out for fear. And
why, when our Saviour fpoke to them, did he not
reprove them for being frighted at their own Ima-
gination, and fancy, (like Children,) that they faw a
Spirit, when there were no fuch things in the
World, and no Apparitions to be feen?
On the other hand he fpeaks kindly to them,
knowing that Apparitions are frightful Things to
People not ufcd to fee them, and bids them he of
good Cheer^ it is not a Spirit, it is /, he not afraid %
'tis no Apparition, but myfelf in reality. So alfo
you have the Story, Mark vi. fO.
Again, you have a perfe6l Defcription of an
Apparition in the very manner we are juft now
difcourfing about ir. Job iv. if, t6. Then a Spirit
faffed before my Face^ the Hair of myTlefh fioodup. It
flood fiiU<y hut I could not difcern the Form thereof: an
Image was before mine Eyes^ there was ftlence^ and I
heard a Voice, Eliphaz was a Man of Senfe, he was
not deluded to fpeak of Things not in Being, he
faw an Apparition, not a Fancy.
Again, Jofhua faw an Apparition, as I mentioned
once before, Jofh. v. i^. A Man with a drawn
Sword in his Hand, This was an Angel, that is to
fay a Spirit, and yet it fpoke to him, and had the
Shape of a Man in Arms, with a Sword in his
Hand,
of APPARITIONS. 131
Hand. Had Jojhuci ofFer'd to touch it, or been per-
mitted to touch it, he would not have found it had
Flefi and Bones -y we have our Saviour's Words for
it, j1 Spirit has not Flesh and B o n e s > an Ap-
parition is a Spirit affuming a Shape of Flefli and
Blood, but without the Reality.
And this Anfwers all thofe fanciful People who
fay to us, that they faw fuch or fuch a Perfon : I
faw him, fays the Ignorant frighted Vifionifb, per-
fe6i:ly ! I know him well enough ! I am fure 'twas
him ! I faw him plainly ! Hence they conclude ic
muft be the Soul of fuch a Perfon, becaufe, fay
they, it had his very Countenance and his Cioaths
on : nay, riding on the fameHorfe as he us'd to ride
on : when the truth of the Cafe is this, the Man is
dead, his Body rotting in the Grave, his Soul car-
ried into the remote Regions of eternal Felicity
or Horror unalterable, and that immoveable, as to
returning this Way : his Cioaths that were feen,
are lying in the Cheft, or the Prefs, where they
ufually lay, and the poor Horfe grafing in the
Field, or perhaps quiet in the Stable, and not ac
all difturb'd. All that is to be faid, the good An-
gel that perhaps had fome fecret Commillion to the
Rclid or Remains of the Man's Family 5 to give
them Notice of fome Evil, to warn, to admonifli, (^c,
aflumes the Shape and Appearance of the Man him-
felf, cioaths himfelf in his Likenefs, forms the
Apparition in Air, of his Cioaths, his Countenance,
his Horfe, as a Painter cloathes the Cloth he paints
on with Faces, Poftures, Habits, Garments, all in
Colours, while the paffive Perfon reprefented is no
way affeded with, or concerned in the Draught
reprefenting him.
And why fnould not this Spirit, thus commif-
fion'd to go on fuch an Errand, be able to amufe
us with the Appearance of a Perfon departed > ta-
king up his Shape, Countenance, Cioaths, ^c.
K z tho'
132. The Hijlory and Reality
tho' the Soul of the Perfon is not affe6led with,
or concern'd in it? when it is known that we of-
ten fee Apparitions of Perfons living, whom we fee
and fpeak to, and converfe with j know their Faces,
their Voices, their Cloathsj and yet the Perfons
themfelves know nothing of the matter.
I HAVE by me a very diverting Hiflory upon
this Subjedb, which I fhall abridge for the prefent
purpofe, as follows, viz.
A CERTAIN young Lady of born in
the County of had been long courted by
a young Gentleman, whofe Father had a very good
Eftate in the fame Town : fhe had kept him Com-
pany too openly, but had not yielded to his Im-
portunities for a criminal Converfation, tho' her
Reputation fuffer'd for it as if fhe hadj but at
4 length (he was fo far over-perfuaded, that fhe made
an Appointment to be at fuch a time at a Far-
mer's Houfe, a Tenant of his Father's, and who
were, it fecms, let into the wicked Secret. Ac-
cordingly fhe dreffes herfelf up with the befl of her
Art, to recommend herfelf (to the Devil^ I may
fay > ) and away {he goes to meet him, having her
Servant Maid to attend her, becaufe it was over
fome Fields that fhe was to go.
When fhe was near the Houfe fhe finds fomc
Excufe or Errand to fend back her Maid to the
Town 5 the Wench, it feems, not being privy to
the Bulinefs.
As fhe turns about todifmifs her Maid, the Maid
offer'd to go farther 'till fhe was nearer the Houfe 5
but her Miflrefs fees the Minifter of the Town
coming along the Path, and making that the Ex-
cufe, O, fays fhe, there's our Minifler, Dr.
coming, fo I fhall have his Company j you may
go back, Mary^ I fhall be fafe enough.
The Maid fees the Minifler alfo, and goes back
accordingly.
As
of APPA.R1TI0 N S. 133
A s foon as the Minifter came up to her, (for he
feem'd to overtake her prefently) he gives her the
ufual CompHtnent, and asks her how fhe came to
be in the Fields alone?
She anfwer'd fhe had not been alone, but ha-
ving Occafion to fend back her Maid, fhe difmifs'd
her the fooner becaufe ihe faw him comings and
befides, fays ibe, I am going but to that Houfe
there, naming the Farmer's Name.
O, Madam, fays the Doftor, are you going
thither? then I know your Errand.
She was furpriz'd and blufh'd, but recovering a
little. What Errand Sir? %s ihe.
Why, Madam, fays he, it may not be proper
for me to name the Bufinefsj but you know ic
well enough.
What d' ye mean Sir ? fays fhe. I don't un-
derftand you
Why, fays he, your Favourite the young Efquire
is there before you.
She was terribly furprized then, and could
hardly fpeak to him, being touch'd with Shame
and Indignations fuppofing the young Gentleman
had boafled of her Favours before he had receiv'd
them, and had betray'd her: however, fhe made
flill flrange of it : and having, it may be fuppos'd,
conquer'd her Modefly fo far as to make a Promife
or Appointment to facrifice her Virtue to him, fhe
might the eafier conquer the Surprize 3 fo fhe feemed
to flight it.
But, Madam, fays the Minifler, if you would
take my Advice— •
and there he flop'd.
What Advice, Sir? fays fhe. I don't under-
ftand what you mean.
Why, I wou'd advife you to go back to the
Town again 5 and not go into the way of Mif-
ehief.
K 3
Shb
134 '^^^ Hijlory and Reality
She ftill withftood, and put him off with the
ufual Anfwer, I don't underfland you 5 what do yc
mean? and the likej but at laft the Minifler raifing
his Voice a little, like to that of a {lern Reprover,
Come, come, young Lady, fays he^ you can't
conceal your wicked Purpofes- you have made Mr.
— an Appointment j he prevail'd on you laft
Night, and you have now deck'd yourfelf up with
your Ornaments to meet him, and proftitute your
Virtue, and your Honour, and your Confcience, all
to his corrupt vicious Appetite 3 and I know it,
you may fee that I do 5 my Advice to you is
to go back and break your wicked Promife, and
repent that you made it. I fhall give him the fame
Advice prefently.
I F fhe was lurpriz'd before, fhe was confounded
now, partly with Horror at the Fa6b itfelf, which
now fhe was ftruck a little with the Senfe of j and
partly, but Tenfold more, with the Shame of its
being known. It put her into fuch Confufion,
that at jfiril fhe could not anfvver a Word-, but
after a-while fhe faid. If you know the Gentle-
man is there. Sir, 1 fhall not go, efpecially fince
you have fuch hard Thoughts of me: and upon
laying this fhe turns about and goes direftly back
again, and the Minifler went from her towards the
Houfe. As the Farmer liv'd but a very little way
from the Place where fhe ftood talking with him,
fhe look'd behind her and faw him go into the
Houfe, and the Door fhut after him.
Any one will fuppofe upon this fhock to her
Defign, and being not only difappointed in her
wicked Pleafures, but expos'd and betray'd, as fhe
imagin'd, by her Lovers fhe went dire6l:ly home
without any flay, and there gave vent to her
Paffions with the utmofl Rage, and with all the Re-
fentment that fuch bafe Treatment could infpirc
her with.
The
of APPARITIONS, I3J
The Gentleman, on the other hand, being ex-
tremely difappointed, and not knowing what could
be the reafon ofjit, after he had waited a long time,
came back to fee what was the Matter, believing
fhe muft be taken ill, or that fomething had hap-
pened very extraordinary.
W HEN he came to the Houfe,(fhe liv'd it feems
with an Aunt, whofe Husband was alfo dependent
upon the youn^ Gentleman's Father,) he enquired
for his Miftrefsj but her Maid brought him Word,
that flie could not be fpoken with.
That Anfwer not being fatisfadory, and
having refus'd to be anfwered with two or three
more fuch Excufes, at laft fhe fent him Word
plainly, that fhe had nothing to fay to him > and
that fhe not only would not fee him now, but
would never fee him more.
S u R p R I z ' D with this, and not able to guefs
the Meaning of it, he goes away 5 but the next
Morning writes her a very civil obliging Letter,
wherein, among abundance of the ufual Expreflions
of Lovers, he begs to know what he had done,
that fhould merit fuch Treatment, and that fhe
would let him into fo much at leaft of the Caufes
of her Difpleafure, as fhould put him in a way to
clear himfelf3 protefting that he knew not the leafl
Step he had taken to difoblige her, except in pun-
ftually attending her Appointment j and having the
Mortification of fitting five Hours by himfelf, in
Expe6i:ation of her Company.
In Anfwer to this, fhe fent him a long Letter,
full of Reproaches for his vile Ufage of her, draw-
ing her into a finful, fhameful Compliance with
him, and then expofing her, and triumphing over
her Weaknefsj making her with one hand. the pre-
tended Objed of his Amour, and with the other
the Sport of his Companions. She upbraided him
with telling her that he fat five Hours alone,
K 4 whereasf
1^6 The Hifiory and Realky
whereas he had much better Company than fhe
could have been 5 feeing the good Dodor, who had
admoniflicd her not to expofe her felf in meeting
him, had given him the fame good Advice that he
had done to her, and fo had not made fo bad a ufe
of his Treachery in betraying her, as he expe&ed.
She concluded with telling him, 'twas her Hap-
pinefs that this came to her Knowledge, before fhe
had thrown her felf into the Arms of a Traitor
and tho' he had done her the Injuftiee to boaft of
her Weaknels, ihe thank'd God, he triumph'd
when he had gain'd; but half a Viftory j hat fhe
was infinitely beholden to him for her Deliverance,
and that it was the only Qbligation he had ever
laid upon her.
I F I could give you the Entertainment of all
the Letters that pafs'd between them, while they
were both under the Amufement of the myfterious
Part, and perfe61:ly ignorant of the Occafion, and
then add the Surprize of the Difcovery, it would
make two Ads of a good Comedy 5 but I mufl
fliorten the Story as much as I can.
He was fo furpriz'd with this Anfwer from his
Mirtrefs, that he could not tell what to make of it,
and efpecially thofe Paragraphs which related to the
good Doftor's admonifhing her, and being in his
Company} all which as he really had known no-
thing of it, fo there was no guefling at the mean-
ing of it. 'Twas impofUble fo much as to have the
leail; Notion about itj 'twas all Confufion and Dark-
nefs, and without the leafl Meaning that he could
come at. In a word, abundance of Letters pafs'd
between them, but flill fhe continu'd ufing him af-
ter the fame manner, talk'dthe fame fly le, about his
betraying her, and that he ai51:ed the very Part of
the Devil^ firfl to tempt, and then to accufcj firft
to draw her in with a thoufand Importunities, and
then expofe her for complying. She reproach'd
him
of APPARITIONS. 137
him with the many Sollicitations and Proteftations of
AfFe6tion,and appeal'd to him to teftifie, whether he
had made an eafie Conqueft, and whether fhe had
not fo long withftood his moft inceflant Aflaultsj
challeng'd him to tell how long he had befieg'd her,
and whether fhe had yielded at laft but on anhonou-
table Capitulation, tho' unhappily ihe had granted
Pofleflion without the due Securities. She ask'd
him why, when he triumph'd over her Honour, he
had not had fo much Generofity to own what the
Treaty had coft him, and how long it was before
he had gain'd that little he had to boaft of?
He protefted at large, that he was perfectly fur-
priz'd at the whole Affair, underflood not one
Word of it, could not dive into her Meaning, ab-
horr'd the Thought of what fhe charg'd him with ;
and at laft very warmly infifled upon her explain-
ing her felf, and that otherwife, as fhe did him fo
much Injuftice, he would do himfelf Juflicej for
he heard fhe made it too publick, and that tho' he
had not done it yet, being tender of her Chara6i:er,
yet he could not bear to be treated in this manner,
and not know fomething of the Reafon of it.
A T laft he prefs'd her to let him but fpeak with
her> which, tho' it was long before fhe would ^
grant, yet fhe did confent to at laft, left hefhould
expofe her.
At this Interview they began to come to an
Underftandingi flie own'd that fhe was coming to
the Place, but that fhe faw the Minifter go in jufl
before her, which made her go back again 5 but
fhe did not tell him a Word of her feeing the Mi-
nifter on the Way.
He protefted there was no Minifter came to
him, or into the Houfej and afterwards brought
the People of the Houfe to teitifie the famej that
he fat all the while in the Parlour reading a Book,
and that no Creature came near hrni, nor fo much
as to the Door, This
38 The Hifiory and Reality
This ftartled her 5 and at laft, with much Iw
portunity,fhe told him the whole Story ofher meeting
with the Do6bor in the Fields; and, in a word, how
the Do6i:or told her where fhe was going, and to
who 5 that he was there wating for her^ and, v/hich
confounded her worfe than all, had told her what
fhe was going about; adding, that fhe had made the
Promife the Night before, and that he, meaning
the Gentleman, had told him fo.
N. B, In this Part (he was miftaken; the Do6bor
faid he had been told of it as foon as JJoe had made
the Promife^ and fhe in her Surprize underftood
it, that he faid the Gentleman told him.
He was fo full of this heavy Charge, and him-
felf in every Part fo clear of it, that it was impof-
lible he fhould fit ftill with it. He knew not what
to make of ir, he knew very well that he had ne-
ver opcn'd his Mouth to any one, Man, Woman or
Child about it ; that the Farmer, or any of his Fa-
mily, knew not a Word of it, only that he was to
meet her there, as they had frequently done before,
and innocently enough; and he could not fuppofe
fhe could be fo weak to talk of it her felf ; fo that
he could not yet imagine what it could be.
A F E w Days furnifh'd him with an Opportuni-
ty to talk with the Minifter himfelf, who came fre-
quently to his Father's Houfe ; and being one Day
very free with him, he jeftcd with him, for hindring
him of two or three Hours of very good Company.
The Do61:or anfwer'd him, he (hould be very
forry to be guijty of any thing fo rude, and defir'd
to know how it could be.
Why, Do6tor, fays he, we were with fome
Friends very merry at fuch a Houfe; (infinuatingthat
there was more Company;) and fuch a Lady, fays
he, (naming her,) was coming to us, and you met
her, and perfuaded her to go back again.
Sir,
O^r^.jo^ I- J yi^^ccht J<
of APPARITIONS. i3$>
Sir, fays the DoElor^ I have only one Satisfaftion
in the whole Story, and that is, that it cannot be
true, as I fhall foon fatisfie you.
Nay Do£tor, fays the Gentleman^ I don't tell it
you as of my own Knowledge.
N o Sir, fays the Do&or, and I ihould not have
fo little Refpeft as to tell you it was falfe, if you
had told it me as of your own Knowledge.
But do you aflure me, fays the Gentleman^ that
it is not true ?
I D o aflure you, fays the DoHor^ upon my Word,
that I know nothing of it.
Why, Dodor, fays the Gentleman, do you
give me your Word that you did not meet her in
the Fields, next to Farmer Gi— 's Houfe on the
eleventh Day of the very laft Month, being Jugufi?
for I have it all down in black and white ^ here.
^ He pulls out his Pocket-Book^ and looks for the
Day of the Month.
Not only not that Day, fays the Do5ior^ but I
never faw her in thofe Fields, or any other Fields, in
ray Life.
Why, you furprize me Doftor, fays the Gentle*
man\ it is impoflible.
I APPEAL to the Lady her felf, fays the
Do6ior,
Nay, Doftor, fays the Gentleman.^ if you appeal
i to her, you muft be cafl: j for I will fwear fhe told
I me fo her felf.
This confounded the Doftor for a little while,
but he prefently recovcr'd himfelfj Sir, fays he^ I
was going to defire of you, that we might wait
upon Mrs. together, and that 1 might hear
it from her felf j but upon recolle6bing all the Cir-
cumftances, I am very happy in one thing, namely,
that let her fay fo her felf, and forty Ladies more, I
can prove to you, that it is impoflible it fliould be true.
That will indeed put an End to it all, fays the
Gentleman i but how can you do that? Why,
140 The Hifiory and Reality
Why, Sir, fays the Do5ior^ are you fure fhe
does not give you a wrong Day ?
No, no, fays the Gentleman^ I have a Reafon
why it can't be a Miflake of the Day, for I have a
Memorandum of the Day upon a remarkable * Oc-
cafion.
^ He had fet it down in his Book upon the Occajion
of his being difappointed.
And it is not the Lady's Miftake then, fays the
Do^or-y for you know Women are not always the
exa6bell in their Accounts of Days, nor Months,
unlefs it be on worfe Accounts than I believe you
were to meet about.
Well,, Do&oy^ fays the Gentleman^ but I am
fure of the Day, for I have it in my Book.
Nay, if it was miftaken a Day or two, fays the
J)o5for^ it matters not -j for, as I faid before, I never
faw her in the Fields in my Life 3 or if I might
fee her among other People, I am fure I never
fpoke to her. But befides Sir, I tell you, this
cannot be true, for I was at London all the laft
Month 'till the 17th Day, fo that 'tis impoffible.
Here the Difcourfe necefiarily broke off: the
Gentleman was loth to difcover his Surprize, but
told him he would enquire farther into it 5 and up-
on that he goes immediately back to the Lady, re-.
proaches her a Httle with her forming fuch a Story
to pick a Quarrel ; but not telling her that he had
been with the Minifter at all 5 only, as he might
eafily know by other Circumfiances, that the Do-
6tor was out of Town, he told her, that he, would
not have charg'd her with fuch a thing in fuch
harfh Terms, if he was not, upon looking back a
little upon things, come to a Certainty, that it was
not only falfe, but that it was impoffible to be
true.
They had a long Dialogue upon that Headj
and as he did not prefently tell her the Circum-
fiances.
of APPARITIONS. ,41
fiances, thinking he had a little Advantage upon
her, he jefted with her pretty fmartly upon it,
feem'd to laugh that fhe ihould firfl put fuch a Sham
upon him, and then to tell fuch a formal Story to
make it good, and to excufe her Breach of Promife,
and that not a Word of Truth fhould be in it.
She receiv'd his making a Jefl of it with Dis-
dain, and told him fhe began now to difcover what
a kind of a Man fhe was fo near being ruin'd by 5
and that fhe had been in good Hands indeed, that
could pretend to banter her thusj that fhe ihonld
have been finely us'd, if the good Minifler had not
been fent from Heaven to fave her from being
doubly undone.
H E told her fhe was foon angry 5 but it touch'd
her home} however Madam, fays he, you fhan't
flander the good Man, for he had no hand in it.
Well, well, fays fhe, I can better laugh at you
for that Folly, than I fhould have done for fome-
thing too vile to name, if I had fallen into your
Hands : For, fays Jhe^ I had too much Reafon to
fay now, that I was fure to have been both be-
tray'd, and expos'd.
He faid fhe grew fcurrilous, and went from one
Story to another} that fhe told him a falfe Story,
and wanted to drop it} he defir'd her to flick to
one thing, and go through that firfl.
She colour'd, and raifing her Voice, told him
'twas below a Gentleman to give a Woman the hiQ-,
that fhe believ'd, if fhe had been a Man, he durfl
not have faid fo to her.
He told her fne was mad, and that fhe had hap-
pen'd to fpcak a falfe thing, and was in a Rage be-
caufe fhe could not come off of it.
She told him, he fhow'd her again that he was
no Gentleman } that if he gave her the Lie again
fhe would fpit in his Face} and that if he would
furniih her with a Sword, fhe would do her fell
juilicc,
1 4i The Hiftory and Reality
juftice, and give him Satisfadtion as fairly as if fhe
was a Manj and that for his giving her the
Lie, fhe threw it back in his Face, he might make
the bell of it.
That's Gallantly done, fays he^ Madam in-
deed, there's a Sword for you 3 and offers her his
own, laying it down upon the Table before her.
You an't even with me yci^fays Jhe-y I fcorn as
much to take up a Sword againft a Naked Manj as
you ought to have fcorn'd, if you had been a Gen-
tleman, to give the Lie to a Woman.
He began now to find fhe was too hard for him >
but he came back to the Queftion.
Well. Madam, fays he^ will you own your
felf in the wrong, if I prove to you what I faid
juft now, that what you charge me with not only
isfalfe, but can't be true?
Ay, ^y^ f'^ys fie^ what can't be true muft be
falfe 5 but what does that do for you ?
Well, fays he^ will you venture fo much upon
' it as*
Here fhe interrupted him with fome warmth]:
fays foey I'll venture my Life upon it.
N o Madam, not your Life, fays he^ you ihall
only oblige your felf to perform your Promife, if I
do prove it 5 and I'll promife never to ask you more,
if I do not.
I can't go that length again, to fave Life;
but I'll freely confent to die any Death in the
World, that is not by lingring Torture, if you can
do it.
Why then M^i^m. fays he^ you know our Ap-
pointment was fuch a Day : fo he reckon'd up the
Days to her, 'till flie undcrftood the Calculation,
and agreed that it was fo.
Well, it was fuch a Day, fays fhe^ and that
Day I faw and talk'd with the Dodtor in fuch a
place.
Well
of APPARITIO NS. 143
Well Madam, fays he^ and that Day, and all
that pare of the Month for feveral Days both be-
fore and after it, the DoUor was at London. I re-
member it, and you ihall know it by very good
Circumftanccs, fuch as cannot be dcny'd. 1 know
it by feveral Particulars.
Here he related to her feveral Circumftanccs, as
if he knew them by his own Affairs, not letting her
know at all chat he had feen the Dodor and talk'd
with him about it.
She laught at him at firft, and told him, that
he had been too old for her before 5 but ihe was too
old for this now: that ihe might be impofed upon
in many things 5 but when fhe faw a Man that flie
knew, and had known from a Child, and talk'd
with a Man fhe had talk'd to a thoufand times, and
had heard Preach for almoft fifteen Years, he muft
not think to run her down with Words : that fhe
afTur'd him 'twas fo, and there was an end of the
thing.
Well Madam, fays he^ and you pretend he
came to the Houfe too while I was there ? How
do you pretend to prove that ?
Only, fays foe^ that I flood flill with my Eyes
open, faw him at the Door, faw little JackyG —j,
the Farmer's Son, open the Door to himjmake him
a Bow, faw the Do6tor go in, faw the Door fbut
to again when he was in 5 that is all, fays f^e^ and
fmil'd.
Well, fays he, I can only fay this, I will have
the bottom of it out 5 for I will not be charg'd as
guilty of ufing you ill, while I know nothing ofit.
N o, no, fays flje^ I don't fay I am us'd ill, I am
us'd well, very well: and here fhe puts on an Air
of Satisfa6l:ion,and fings,
7i flee from the Devil'i-, to bid him purfue >
jlnd he certainly needs no inviting :
But
The Hifiory and Reality
But if you ajfail^ he will quickly turn 'Tailj
For the Devil was never for fitting,
^oe Devil can tempt^ hut he cannot compel j
He can wheedle^ delude^ and invite us ;
But he never would fill up his Quota's in Hell
If he only fhould Bully and Fright us.
But when once we're got out of his Clutches^
He rages and roars like a Bull:
His Malice and Emptinefs fuch isj
And yet he*s of Venom fo fulL
^he way then to deal with the Devil^
Is at his own IVeapons to fight him :
Ifhen he fets up his Roar^ provoke him the more,
And let him hut fee that you flight him.
For the DeviVs a Coward in Nature^
Apitiful forry Poltroon >
If you take hut the JVhip^ he"*IIgive you the Slip j
And hefore you can lafh him^ he^ll run,
"'
Her Singing put him into a PafIion~> for he
Book her Song of the Devil to mean himfelf 5 and i|
he told her 'twas all a fcandalous Fiction of her
own, and fhe fhould hear more of him 5 and fo of-
fered to go out.
She bad him do his worft, and made him a
Curtfy, as if fhe fuppos'd he had been juft going
away 5 and now fhe laught outright at him.
But he cou'd not go away yet 5 he told her he
would not have her expofe her felf, that fhe ought
not to ufc him fo, and fhe would but force him to
make her afhamed of it*
She
of APPAR17I0NS. 14^
She told him it was good Advice, , to bid her
not expofe her felf, and fhe had the more need of
it 5 becaufe he had expofed her fo much already.
Then he told her he would bring the Farmer
and all his Family to her, to prove that the Do6lor
had not been there that Day, nor for live Months
before 5 and the Boy fhould teftify that he never
faw him, nor open'd the Door, nor let him in.
Well Sir, fays Jhe^ now you come clofe to the
Point 5 pray let all this be done : But let me ask
one thing for you to think of as you go on^ Do you
think I know Dodor -our Minifter ?
Yes Madam, fays he^ I believe you know him
well enough, and that makes me wonder at you the
more.
Well, and do you think my Maid Mary knows
him ? fays fie.
Yes, fays he^ I believe flie does ^ for fhe was
born in the Town.
Well, fays fie^ then I have one Witnefs of my
fide J you fhall hear what (he fays.
Why Madam, fays he^ was Mary with you ?
You fhall hear prefently, fays fie.
So fie rings a little Be% and in comes her
Maid,
Mift. Mary^ don't you remember you walk'd out
into the Field with me one Day lafl Month }
Ma. Wh AT,when you went to Farmer Gi —'s.
Madam, and Tent me back again ?
Mift, Y e s J don't you remember you would fain
a gone further ?
Ma. Yes Madam, I was afraid you fhould go
over the laft Field alone.
Mift. But what did I fay to you, Maryf
Ma. Why you would make me go back 5 by
the fame Token we faw our Minifter Dr.—
a coming after us, and you faid the Doftor would
L fee
1^4 ^^^ Hifiory and Realhj
fee you fafe 3 and fo I came away contented when t
faw him.
Mift. Are you fure 'twas the Do£bor, Mary ?
Ma. S u R E5 Madam ! yes : why he fpoke to me,
Mift. What did he lay to you ?
Ma. H E faid, How d'ye do Mrs. Mary ? and
touch 'd his Hat, juft as he us'd to do.
Well Sir, fays fi^e^ then you fee I wa'n't drunk,
jfior I did not walk in my Sleep. If it were conve-
nient I would fend for the Doftor this Minute, and
he fhould tell you what he faid to me.
Convenient or not convenient, fays he^ Til
fend for him, or go to him, for I will find it out :
and then he fwore a little.
That's much about as kind as all the \'t%fays
f:e J rather expofe any body than your felf 5 but do
your word, the Snare is broken and I am efcafd^
'twill expofe your felf at laft.
Come Madam. ,%j r^t*, you fhall fee I can talk
ic with the Do£l:or, and that before your Face 5
and yet he fhall know nothing of the matter.
I KMov/ a little too much of that, fays fhe-y he
know nothing of it ! and then fhe fmil'd.
This put him almoft out of all Temper, and
he gave her ill Words again > and at laft added the
whole Story, and told her downright, that he
had talk'd with the Do6tor already j and that he
folemnly protefted he knew nothing of it, and had
never feen her or fpoken with her for fo long time,
naming the time when he fpoke laft to her> hke-
wife he told her what the Do6i:or faid of his having
been at London 2X\i\io(o three Weeks when this hap-
pen'd.
She begun to be amaz'd, and a little confound-
ed at this 5 but recovering her felf, {he told him,
that if the Do6bor v/as there himfelf, fhe had a di-
rect anfwer to give him, for fhe was not a Papift
to believe a Pricft againft her own Senfes.
What
of APPARITIONS.
What anfwer can you give, Madam, fays he^
when the Dodor fhall prove by twenty Witnefles,
if need were, that he was at Londony almoft a hun-
dred Mile off, all the while ?
Why my Anfwer would be this, that 'twas
cither he or the Devil.
Well, then it was the Devil, fays he -, I won't
difpute that with you. Madam.
No, no, faysfje, I can fatisfy you that it could
not be the Devil, I can convince youj you will
acknowledge it prefently : Do you think the Devil
would have turn'd me back again, when he knew
the dreadful Errand T was going on ?
Nay, fays he calmly, 1 confeis that's the belt
thing you have faid yet j who then cou'd it be?
fays he*. For 'tis plain it could not be the Do6tor.
Then, fays foe, it muft be fome heavenly Ap-
pearance in the Do6tor's Cloaths, for I knew not
his Face and his Voice only, but his very Gownj
and if it was a good Angel, I have the more rea-
fon to be thankful that he hindred me from running
into the Arms of the Devil: and with that ihe fell a
crying, fhe could hold out no longer.
Well, they parted after this Scuffle, for he
was a little daunted himfelf.
But my Story does not end here > for a little
while after fomething happen'd that explained all
the reft : The Lady had a Vifit to pay at a Neigh*
hour's Houfe, who liv'd a little out of the Town,
only over one little Enclofure, which fhe was ob*
lig'd to crofs : Now as fhe was going over that
Clofe or Enclofure, who fhould fhe meet but the
Dodor again 5 and Ihe faw him a good while before
he came up to her.
She was furpriz'd at feeing him 5 and if fhe
could have avoided him fhe would : but 'twas im-
poflible. When he came up to her, he pull'd off his
Hat very courteoufly, and immediately began to
Li diicourfe
148 The Hifiory and Reality
difcourfe of what he had faid to her before > but
took no Notice at all of its having been deny'd.
Sir, fays fie^ I have been very ill us'd upon that
Day's Work.
I KNOW it, fa.ys he^ I know it, repeating the
Words : But your Innocence fhall be cleared up,
I will do it my felf 5 do you be thankful that you
efcap'dthe Snare: And fo, giving her no time toan-
fwer, he pafs'd by her without taking any farewell:
which being a little Particular, made her turn her
Head to look at him : But tho' it was in the mid-
dle, of the Field, which was too large for him to
be out of it if he had flown as fvvift as a Pidgeon,
(for it was not above a Moment, not a Second of
Time) he was gone, and fhe faw nothing.
She was exceedingly furpriz'd, and ready to
fink into the Ground 3 ihe was fo frighted that fhe
could not help fitting down even upon the Grafs j
for her Joints trembled under her, fo that fhe could
not fland.
I T happen'd that a poor Woman of the Town
came crofs the Clofe at the very jun6ture, and
knowing her, fhe call'd to her to come and help
her up. She did not tell the Woman what had hap-
pen'd to her, but that fhe was taken with a fit of
trembling, and that if fhe had not fat down fhe
mufl have fallen down j all which was true : fo the
poor Woman help'd her up, and led her home,
where fhe continued very ill of the Fright for fe-
veral Days.
In this time fhe had a very great defire to fee the
Gentleman, for by what the Apparition faid to
her fhe made no doubt but he had feen ic too.
After feme time he had heard that fhe was
very ill, and thinking what he had faid to her
might have had fome influence upon her, to hurt
her, he refolv'dto go and fee her 5 for tho' he had
rulHed her pretty much 5 yet, as he faid afterwards,
he
of AP PARITIO NS. 149
lie lov'd her very well 5 and the better for her fo
leafonably recovering her Virtue and good Princi-
ples 5 and much better than he believ'd he fhould
have done, if he had had his Will of her, as he
fliould certainly have had, if (he had met him that
time at the Farmer's.
With thefe kind Thoughts he went to vific
her> and tho' fhe was very ill, yet fhe would be
brought out of her Chamber to fee him.
After fomc Civilities, he frankly told her the
reafon of his Vifit word for word as above, and
that he came to chear her up a little.
She thank'd him 5 but told him it was true it
had extremely troubled her, to think firft how
near fhe had been to her utter Ruin, and then how
needlefly fhe had been expos'd for it 5 and that tho*
JQie had no Guilt, as he very well knew, other than
that which was in the firft wicked Confenting; yet
fhe had been as much expos'd, as if fhe had been
really his Whore.
He protefted to her that he never had opened
his Lips of it to the Do6tor, or any one elfe y and
that it was the Refentment at the charging him
with it, that had made him fo angry, and nothing
elfe 'y for that he fcorn'd any thing fo bafe.
She told him it was impoflible for any one to
believe otherwife before 5 but that fhe believ'd he
was fatisfied how it all was, now 5 and that fome-
thing had happen'd fince, which had open'd her
Eyes, tho' it hadalmoft kill'd her 5 and ihe believ'd
he knew fomething of it too.
He wanted to know what it was, .for he pro-
tefted he knew nothing. What fays he^ is there
any more Myfteries?
SHE faid^ fhe could not tell him, becaufe fhe
fuppos'd he would not believe her.
HE anfwer'd^ he would believe her in every
thing, that he ousht to believe any body in.
L 3
SHE
1 JO The Hijiory and Reality
S HE told him^ flie believ'd there would be no
occafion to tell him, for that fhe did not doubt
bfit he would be inform'd the fame way that fhe
Was, if he was not already.
He importuned her earneftly to let him know
what it was} and that with fuch a ferious kind of
Difcourfe, that fhe fancy'd he had feen fomething
too J but it fccms he had not: However he en-
treated her fo much, that at laft fhe let him know
the whole Story, as above.
There is a great deal more belongs to this
Story, which would be very diverting, and not
without its Ufes too > but as the particular Rela-
tion docs not come within the verge of my own
Knowledge, I cannot vouch all the Particulars, at
leafl not fufficiently.
However, 'tis enough to the Cafe in hand :
If the Apparition came to prevent this poor de-
luded young Lady from proilituting her felf to a
Man that had wheedled her in upon fuch difhonou-
rable Terms > it could not certainly be the Devily
or any Spirit of his Clafs, or under his Govern-
ment and Dire6tioni he would never have exhorted
her to go back, reproached her with the Crime,
and prevail'd upon her to believe it had been re-
veaPd to him by the Treachery of her Lover.
This mufl be certainly one of thofe Angelick
Guards which the God of Nature, in Mercy to
Mankind, has placed as a detach'd Body of Spirits
to counter-a6b the Devily prevent the Arch-ene-
my feducing his Creatures, and over- whelming the
World with Crime 5 and if the Story be as 1 have
receiv'd it and now handed it down, it feems a
merciful Difpofition of Providence in Favour of
the Gentleman, as well as the Lady 5 and be it a Pa-
rable or a Hiftory, the Moral is the fame, and the
Improvement of it the fame too: They that are
running the fame Courfe of Folly would have Rea-
fon
of APPARITIO NS. iji
fon to be very thankful if they were fure to meet
with the fame kind of Difappointmenr, and would
never fay it was the Devil that told it them.
The Gentleman it feems did not flight the
Story fo much as fhe expe61:ed he would, nor did
he queftion the Truth of any or every Part of it ;
for fhe told it with fo much Steadinefs, always a-^
greeing in every Particular, and gave fo concur-
ring Accounts of the Circumftances as they related
to what had happened before, that it was appa-
rent 'twas no Delufion.
That which made him moil unealy, was that
the Apparition feem'd to promife to appear to
him 5 and he had no Defire to be convinc'd that
way. Indeed the Story, at lead fo far as I have the
Particulars, breaks off a little abruptly there and
does not fay whether he ever faw any thing or no.
But it faid, it made him be quite another Man in
his Way of living than ever he was before 5 and
particularly he was very thankful that he had been
prevented being fo wicked with her as in all Pro*
bability he had been, if this had not happen'd.
Now this Apparition, as is faid above, could not
with any manner of Reafon, be fuppofcd to be the
Devil 'y for why fhouid an Evil Spirit appear, to
keep any Perfon from doing Evil ? Why fhouid it
aflume a real Shape, namely that of a Minifter in his
Gown and Caflbck, and that it was in Appearance
the very Minifter of the Parithj for all this fhe con-*
Hantly affirm'd, and two things are natural Infe-^
rences from it,
FIRST^ That the Appearance was real.
SECONDLY^ That it was a good Spirit.
Let the Divines read us Le6tures upon the
Nature of Spirits, and upon how far they can or
cannot take Cognizance of human Affairs j That I
have nothing to do with here 5 ray Bufinefs is to
ohferve the Matter of Fa6b, viz, that they do come
L 4 hither.
iji The Hifiory and Reality
hither, do appear, and are feen, talk'd to and con*
vers'd with, and that they do come on good Errands,
and therefore are not likely to be evil Spirits or
Devils.
Take another Hiftorical Relation, which, tho'
I name no Names, I have very good Authority for
the Truth of, and that more particularly than for
the other.
A Gentleman of a very good Eftate mar-
ried a Lady of alfoa good Fortune, and had one Son
by her, and one Daughter, and no more, and after a
few Years his Lady died. He foon married a fecond
Venter 5 and his fecond Wife, tho' of an inferior Qua-
lity and Fortune to the former, took upon her to dif-
courage and difcountenance his Children by his firft
Lady, and made the Family very uncomfortable,
both to the Children and to their Father alfo.
The firft thing of Confequence which thisCon-
du6t of the Mother-in-Law produced in the Family,
was that the Son, who began to be a Man, ask'd the
Father's Leave to go abroad to travel. TheMothcr-
in-Law, tho' willing enough to be rid of the young
Man, yet becaufe ic would require fomething con-
fiderable to fupport his Expenccs abroad, violently
oppos'd it, and brought his Father alfo to refufe
Jiim, after he had freely given him his Confent.
This fo afFe6ted the young Gentleman, that
after ufing all the dutiful Applications to his Father
that he could poffibly do, as well by himfelf as by
fome other Relations, but to no purpofe j and being
a little encouraged by an Uncle, who was Brother
to his Mother, his. Father's lirft Lady, he refolv'd
to go abroad without Leave, and accordingly did
fo.
What Part of the World he travelled into
1 do not remember^ it feems his Father had con-
ftantly Intelligence from him for fome time, and
was prevail'd with to make him a reafonable Al-
'
lowance
of AP PARiriO NS, IJ3
lowance for his Subfiftance, which the young
Gentleman always drew Bills for, and they were
honourably paid 5 but after fome time, the Mother-
in-Law prevailing at home, one of his Bills of
Exchange was refus'd, and being protefted, was
fent back without Acceptance 5 upon which he
drew no more, nor did he write any more Letters^
or his Father hear any thing from him for upwards
of four Years, or thereabouts.
Upon this long Silence, the Mother-in-Law
made her Advantage feveral Ways 5 flie firft intima-
ted to his Father that he maft needs be dead 5 and
confequently, his Eftate fhould be fettled upon her
eldeft Son, (for flie had feveral Children.) His Fa-
ther withflood the Motion very firmly, but the
Wife harrafs'd him with her Importunities 5 andfhc
argued upon two Points againft him, I mean the
Son.
FIRST^ If he was dead, then there was no
room to obje6t, her Son being Heir at Law.
SECOiSlDLY^ If he was not dead, his Beha-
viour to his Father in not writing for fo long a
Time was inexcufable, and he ought to refcnt it,
and fettle the Eftate as if he were dead 5 that no-
thing could be more difobliging, and his Father
ought to depend upon it that he was dead, and
treat him as if he was fo j for he that would ufe a
Father fo, fhould be taken for one dead, as to his
filial Relation, and be treated accordingly.
His Father however ftood ouc a long time, and
told her that he could not anfwer it to his Gon-
fcience ; that there might happen many things in
the World, which might render his Son unable to
write 5 that he might be taken by the 'Turks^ and
carried into Slavery; or he might be among the
Perjians or j^rabiam {which it feems was the Cafe)
and fo could not get any Letters convey'd 5 and
that he could not be fatisfied to difinhcrit him,
'till
IJ4 The Hijiory and Reality
'till he knew whether he had Reafon for it orno,
or whether his Son had offended him or no.
These Anfwers, however juft, were far from
flopping her Importunities, which flie carried on
fo far, that fhe gave him no Reft, and it made an
unquiet Family j fte carried it very ill to him, and
in a word, made her Children do fo too 5 and the
Gentleman was fo wearied out with it, that once or
twice he came to a kind of Confent to do it, but
his Heart fail'd him, and then he fell back again,
and refufed.
However, her having brought him fo ne^r it,
was an Encouragement to her to go on with her
" reftlefs Sollicitations, 'till at lall he came thus far
to a provifional Agreement, that if he did not hear
from his Son by fuch a time, or before it, he
would confent to a re-fettling the Eftate.
She was not well fatisfied with the conditional
Agreement, but being able to obtain no other,
fhe was oblig'd to accept of it as 'twas j tho', as
fhe often told him, fhe was far from being fatisfied
with it as to the Time, for he had fix'd it foe
four Years, as above.
He grew angry at her telling him fo, and an-
fwer'd, that fhe ought to be very well fatisfied
with it, for that it was time little enough, as his
Son's Circumftances might be.
Well, fhe teiz'd him however fo continually,
that at laft fhe brought him down to one Year:
But before fhe brought him to that, fhe told him
one Day in a Heat, that fhe hoped his Ghoft would
one time or other appear to him, and tell him, that
he was dead, and that he ought to do Juftice to his
other Children, for he fhould never come to claim
the Eftate.
When he came, fo much againft his Will, to
confent to fhorren the time to one Year, he told
her, that he hoped his Son's Gholl, tho' he was.
7 noc
of APPARITIONS. ijy
not dead, would come to her, and tell her he was
alive, before the Time expired : For why, fays he,
may not injur'd Souls walk while embodied, as well
as afterwards ?
I T happen'd one Evening after this, that they
had a moft violent Family Quarrel upon this Subr
je6t, when on a fudden a Hand appeared at a Cafe-
ment, endeavouring to open it 5 but as all the iron
Cafements, ufed in former Times, open'd outward,
but hafp'd or faften'd themfelves in thelnfidej fo
the Hand feem'd to try to open the Cafement, but
could not. The Gentleman did not fee it, but his
Wife did, and flie prefently flatted up, as if ihe
was frighted, and forgetting the Quarrel they had
upon their Hands, Lord blefs mc! fays Jhe^ there
are Thieves in the Garden. Her Husband ran im-
mediately to the Door of the Room they fat in, and
opening it, look'd out.
T H E R e's no body in the parden, fays he'j fa he
clapt the Door again, and came back.
Jam fure, fays Jhe^ 1 faw a Man there.
It muft be the Devil then, fays he^ for I'm fure
there's no body in the Garden.
I'l L fwear, faysfhe^ I faw a Man put his Hand
up to open the Cafement j but finding it fafl, and I
fuppofe, adds fhe^ feeing us in the Room, he walk'd
off.
I T is impoffible he could be gone, fays he j did
not I run to the Door immediately ? and you know
the Garden Walls on both fides hinder him going
P R y't h e e, fays fie angrily^ I an't drunk nor
in a Dream, I know a Man when I fee him, and
'iis not dark, the Sun is not quite down.
You're only frighted with Shadows, y^ji ;^^,
very full of Ill-nature : Folks generally are fo that are
haunted with an evil Confcience : it may be 'twas,
the Devil,
No
J (J The Hifiory and Reality
No, no, I'm not foon frighted, y^;/j Jhe-, if 'twas
the Devil^ 'twas the Ghoft of your Son : it may
be come to tell you he was gone to the Devil,
and you might give your Eftate to your eldeft
Baftard, fince you won't fettle it on the lawful
Heir.
If it was my SoUy fays he, he's come to tell us
he's alive, I warrant you, and to ask you how you
can be fo much a Devil to defire me to di (inhe-
rit him 5 and with thofe Words, jllexander^ fays
he aloud, repeating it twice, ftarting up out of his
Chair, if you are alive {how your felf, and don't
let me be infulted thus every Day with your being
dead.
At thofe very Words, the Cafement whic h
the Hand had been feen at by the Mother, open'd
of itfelf, and his Son jilexander look'd in with a
full Face, and flaring dire6tly upon the Mother with
an angry Countenance, cry'd Here, and then va-
nifh'd in a Moment.
The Woman that was fo flout before, fhriek'd
out in a mofl difmal manner, fo as alarm'd the
whole Houfej her Maid ran into the Parlour, to
fee what was the matter, but her Miflrefs was
fainted away in her Chair.
She was not fallen upon the Ground, becaufc
it being a great eafie Chair, fhe funk a little back
againfl the fide of the Chair, and Help coming im-
mediately in, they kept her up > but it was not 'till
a great while after, that fhe recover'd enough to
be fenfible of any thing.
Her Husband run immediately to the Parlour
Door, and opening it went into the Garden, but
there was nothings and after that he run to another
Door that open'd from the Houfe into the Garden,
and then to two other Doors which open'd out
of his Garden, one into the Stable-yard, and ano-
ther into the Field beyond the Garden, but found
theiB
of APPARITIONS. i^j
them all fafl: fliut and barr'd 5 but on one fide was
his Gardener, and a Boy, drawing the Rolling-
flone : he ask'd them if any body elfe had been in
the Garden, but they both conftantly affirmed no
body had been there, and they were both rolling
a Gravel- walk near the Houfe.
Upon this he comes back into the Room, fits
him down again, and faid not one Word for a
good while J the Women and Servants being bufy
all the while, and in a Hurry, endeavouring to
recover his Wife.
After fome time {he recdver'd fo far as to
fpeak, and the firfl Words fhe faid,
L- d blefs me! what was it?
Nay, fays her Husband, 'twas Alexander to be
fure.
With that {he fell into a Fit, and skream'd and
ihriek'd out again moft terribly.
Her Husband not thinking that would have
affected her, did what he could to perfuade her
out of it again 5 but that would not do, and they
were oblig'd to carry her to Bed, and get fome
help to her 3 but ihe continued very ill for feveral
Days after.
However this put an end for fome confide-
rable time to her Sollicitations about his Difinhe-
I
riting her Son-in-Law.
But Time, that hardens the Mind in cafes of
a worfe Nature, wore this ofFalfo by degrees, and
I
fhe began to revive the old Caufe again, tho' not;
at fir{l: fo eagerly as before.
Nay he us'd her a little hardly upon ittoo, and
if ever they had any Words about it he would
bid her hold her Tongue, or that if {he talked any
more upon that Subject, he would call Akicander'
again to open the Cafement.
This aggravated Things much 3 and tho' Tt ter-
rify'd her a great while, yet at length {he was {o
exafperated
I j8 The Hijfory and Reality
exaiperated, that flie told him flie believ'd he dealt
with the Devil^ and that he had fold himfelf to
the Devil only to be able to fright his Wife.
He jefted with her, and told her any Man wou'd
be beholden to the Devil to hufli a noify Wo-
man, and that he was very glad he had found the
Way to do it, whatever it cofl him.
She was fo cxafperated at this, that (he threa-
ten'd him if he play'd any more of his hellidi Arts
with her, fhe wou'd have him Indided for a Wi-
zard, and having aj^'amiliarj and flie could prove
it, {he faid, plain enough, for that he had rais'd
the Devil on purpofe to fright his Wife.
The Fray parted that Night with ill Words
and ill Nature enough, but he little thought fhe
intended as ihc faid, and the next Day he had for-
got it all, and was as good-humour'd as if nothing
had happened.
But he found his Wife chagreen'd and diftur-
bed very much, full of Refentment, and threatning
him with what fhe refolv'd to do.
However he little thought fhe intended him
the Mifchief flie had in her Head, offering to talk
friendly to herj but fhe reje6i:ed it with Scorn, and
told him fhe would be as good as her Word, for
flie wou'd not live with a Man that fhould bring
the Devil into the Room as often as he thought
fir, to murthcr his Wife.
He flrove to pacify her by fair Words, but
ilie told him fhe was in earneft with him : and in
a Word fhe was in earneft > for fhe goes away to
a Juftice, and making an Affidavit that her Hui-
band had a Familiar Spirit, and that fhe went in
Danger of her Life, fhe obtain'd a Warrant for
him to be apprehended.
I N fhort, fhe brought home the Warrant, fhew'd
it him, and told him fhe had not given it into.
the Hands of an Officer, becaufe he fhould have
thef
ofJPPARlTlONS. ijjy
the Liberty to go voluntarily before the Juftice of
the Peace, and if he thought fit to let her tnow
when he would be ready, fhe would be fo too,
and would get fome of her own Friends to go along
with her.
He was furpriz'd at this, for he little thoughc
ihe had been in earneft with him, and endeavour'd to
pacify her by all the Ways pofliblej but fhe found
ihe had frighted him heartily, and fo indeed flic
had, for tho' the thing had nothing in it of Guilt,
yet he found it might expofe him very much, and
being loth to have fuch a Thing brought upon the
Stage againft him, he ufed all the Entreaties with
her that he was able, and begged her not to do
it.
But the more he humbled himfelf, the more
flie triumph'd over him y and carrying Things to
an unfufferable height of Infolence, flic told him
at laft flie would make him do Juftice, as flie call'd
it 5 that flie was fure flie cou'd have him punifli'd
if he continu'd obftinate, and flie wou'd not be
expos'd to Witchcraft and Sorcery 5 for flie did not
know to what length he ifiight carry it.
To bring the Story to a Conclufionj flie got
the better of him to fuch a degree, that he ofFer'd
to refer the thing to indifferent Perfons, Friends
on both Sides-, and they met feveral Times, but
could bring it to no Conclufion. His Friends faid
there was nothing in it, and they would not
have him comply with any thing upon the Pre-
tence of it 5 that he called for his Son, and fome
body open'd the Cafement and cry'd here -y that
there was not the leaft Evidence of Witchcraft in
that, and infifted that flie cou*d make nothing of
it.
Her Friends carried it high, inftrufted by her:
She offer'd to fwear that he had threatned her be-
fore with his Son's Ghoftj that now he vifibly rais'd
a
i^o The Hijiory and Reality
a Spe&e j for that calling upon his Son, who was
dead to be fure, the Ghoft immediately appear'dj
that he could not have called up the Devil thus
to perfonate his Son, if he had not dealt with the
Devil himfclf, and had a familiar Spirit, and that
this was of dangerous Confequence to her.
Upon the whole, the Man wanted Courage to
iland it, and was afraid of being expos'di fo that
he was grievoufly perplex'd, and knew not what
to do.
When {he found him humbled as much as flic
cou'd defire, flie told him if he would do her Ju-
ilice, as flie call'd it, (that is to fay, fettle his
Eftate upon her Son,) Ihe would put it up, on
Condition that he fliould promife to fright her no
more with railing the Devil.
That part of the Propofal exafperated him
ngain, and he upbraided her with the Slander of
it, and told her he defy'd her, and flie might do
her worft.
Thus it broke off all Treaty, and flie began
to threaten him again > however, at length, flie
brought him to comply, and he gives a Writing
under his Hand to her, fome of her Friends being
by, promifing that he would comply if his Son
did not arrive, or fend an Account of himfelf, with-
in four Months.
She was fatisfy'd with this, and they were all
made Friends again, and accordingly he gave the
Writing} but when he deliver'd it to her in Pre-
fence of her two Arbitrators, he took the Liberty
to fay to her, with a grave and folemn kind of
Speech :
Look you, fays he, you have worry'd mc into
this Agreement by your fiery Temper, and I have
lign'd it againft Juftice, Confcience and Reafonj
but depend upon it, I fliall never perform it.
On»
of AP P ARITI ON S. \6i
One of the Arbitrators faid, Why, Sir, this is
doing nothings for if you refolve not to perform it,
what fignifies the Writing? Why do you promife
what you do not intend ihall be done? This will
but kindle a new Flame to begin with, when the
Time fix'd expires.
Why, fays he^ I am fatisfy*d in my Mind that
iny Son is alive.
Come, come, fays his Wife^ fpeaking to the Gen-
tleman that had argued with her Husband, let him
iign the Agreement, and let me alone to make
him perform the Conditions.
Well, fays her Husband^ you fhall have thC'
Writing, and you ihall be let alone j but I am fa-
tisfy'd you will never ask me to perform it> and
yet I am no Wizard, adds he, as you have wick-
edly fuggefted.
She reply 'd that flie would prove that he dealt
with the De'vil^ for that he rais*d an evil Spirit by
only calling his Son by his Name> and fo began to
tell the Srory of the Hand and the Cafemenr.
Come, fays the Man to the Gentleman that
Was her Friend, give me the Pen j I never dealc
with but one Devil in my Life, and there it fits,
turning to his Wife 5 and now I have made an
Agreement with her, that none but theZ^^w/wou'd
defire any Man to fign: and I will fign it; I fay,
give me the Pen, but fhe nor all the Devils in
Hell will ever be able to get it executed, remem-
ber I fay fo.
She began to open at him, and fo a new Flame
would have been kindled, but the Gentlemen mo-
derated between them 5 and her Husband fetting
his Hand to the Writing put an end to the Fray
at that time.
At the end of four Months fhe challenged the
Performance, and a Day was appointed, and her two
Friends that had been the Arbitrators were invited
M t©
1(^1 The Htjtory and Reality
to Dinner upon this Occafion, believing that her
Husband would have execute4 the Deeds j and acr
cordingly the Writings were broqsht all forth, en-
grofs'd, and read over > ap^ fopi^ old Writings which
at her Marriage were fign'd by her Truftees in or-
der to her quitting fome part of tl^e Eftate to her
Son, were alfo brought to be cancell'd. The Huf-
band being brought over by fair M^ans or foul, \
knov^ not whether, to be in a Humoi^r for Peace
fake to execute the Deed% and difinherit his Sonj
^Hedging that, indeed, if he was dead it was np^
wrong to him, and if he was alive I^c was very
unkind and undutiful to his Father in not letting
him hear from him in all that time.
Besides it was urg'd that if he {Jiovild at any
time afterwards appear to be alive, his Father (who,
had very much encreas'd, it feems, \r\ his Wealth,)
was ^ble to give hitn another Fortune, and to make
l^im a juft Satisfa6l:ion for the Lofs he fhould fu-
ftain by the Paternal E(tate.
Upon thefe Confiderations, I fay, they had
brought over the poor low-fpirited Husband to be
alpioft willing to comply 5 or at leaft, willing or un-
willing, it was to be done, and (as above) they met
accordingly.
When they had difcourfed upon all the Parti-
culars, and (as above) the new Deeds were read over,
fb,e or her Husband took the old Writings up to
cancel them j I think the Story fays it was the
Wife, not her Husband, that was juft going to
tear off the Seal, when on a fudden they heard a
rufhing Noife in the Parlour where they fat, as if
fome body had come in at the Door of the Room
which opened fropi the Hall, and went thro' the
Room towards the Garden Door, which was {h,ut.
They were all furpriz'd at it, for it was very
diftin6t, but they faw" nothing. The Woman
turn'd pale, and was in a terrible Fright y however,
as
of APP AR IT 10 NS. 161
as nothing was fcen, fhe recovered a little, but be*
gan to ruffle her Husband again.
What, fays fhe, have you laid your Plot to
bring up more Devils again?
The Man fat composed, tho' he was under no
little Surprize too. , j ,-
One of her Gentlemen faid to him, What is tftig
meaning of all this ?
I PROTEST, Sir, fays he, I know no more of
it than you do.
What can it be then? faid the other Gentle^
man,
I CANNOT conceive, fays he^ for I am utterly
unacquainted with fuch Things.
Have you heard nothing from your Son ? fays
the Gentleman.
Not one Word, fays the Father^ no not the leaft
Word thefe five Years.
Have you wrote nothing to him, fays the Gen-^
tUman^i about this Tranfa6lion ?
N o t a Word, fays he, for I know not where
to diredt a Letter to him.
Sir, fays the Gentleman^ I have heard much of
Apparitions, but I never faw any in my Life, nor
did I ever believe there was any thing of Reality
in them \ and indeed I faw nothing now : but the
paffing of fomeBody, or Spirit, or fomething, crofs
the Room juit now, is plain 5 I heard it diflindtly.
I believe there is fome unfeen Thing in the Room,
as much as if I faw it.
Nay, fays the other Arbitrator^ I felt the Wind
of it as it pafs'd by me. Pray, adds he, turning to
the Husband, do you fee nothing yourfclf?
N o, upon my Word, fays he^ not the leaft Ap-
pearance in the World.
I HAVE been told, fays the firft Arbitrator, and
have Read that an Apparition may be feen by fome
M z People,
1^4 "^^^ Hijlory and Redlity
People, and be Invifible to others, tho' all in
the fame Room together.
However the Husband folemnly protefted to
them all that he faw nothing.
.
Pray, Sir, fays the firft Arhitrator^ have you
fcen any thing at any other time, or heard any Voi-
ces or Noifes, or had any Dreams about this Matter?
Indeed, fays he^ I have feveral times dream'd my
Son is alive, and that I had fpoken with him \ and
once that I ask'dhim, why he was fo undutiful, and
flighted me fo, as not to let me hear of him in fo
many Years, feeing he knew it was in my Power
to diilnherit him.
Well, Sir, and what Anfwer did he give?
I never dream'd fo far on as to have him an-
fwer 5 it always wak'd me.
And what do you think of it yourfelf, fays the
Arbitrator^ do you think he is dead ?
N o, indeed, fays the Father^ 1 do believe in my
Confcience he is alive, as much as I believe I am
alive myfelfj and I am going to do as wicked a
thing of its Kind as ever any Man did.
Truly, fays the fecond Arbitrator, it begins
to {hock me, I don't know what to fay to it > I
don't care to meddle any more with it, I don't
like driving Men to a6t againft their Confciences.
With this the Wife, who, as I faid, having a
little recover'd her Spirits, and efpecially encou-
j*ag'd, becaufe fhe faw nothing, ftarted up 5 What's
all this Difcourfe to the purpofe, fays foe^ is it not
all agreed already ? what do we come here for ?
Nay, fays the firft Arbitrator^ I think we meet
now not to enquire into why it is done, but to
execute Things according to Agreement, and what
are we frighted at ?
I ' M not frighted, fays the Wife^ not I 5 come,
fays (he to her Husband haughtily, lign the X^z^d^-y
I'll cancel the old Writings if forty BemU were in
the
of APVARITIO NS. i^jr
the Room 5 and with that fhe takes up one of the
Deeds, and went to tear off the Seal.
That Moment the fame Cafement flew open
again, tho' it was faft in the Infide, juft as it
was before 5 and •
the Shadow of a Body was
feen, as (landing in the Garden without, and the
Head reaching up to the Cafement, the Face
looking into the Room, and flaring direftly at
the Woman with a flern and an angry Gounte-^
nonce j Hold, faid the Spe6lre, as if fpeaking to
the Woman > and immediately clap'd the Gafement
to again, and vanifh'd.
I T is impoflible to defcrlbe here the Confter-
nation this fecond Apparition put the whole Com-
pany into J the Wife, who was fo bold jud before,
that fhe wou'd do it tho' forty Devils were in the
Room, skream'd out. like a Woman in Fits, and
let the Writing fall out of her Hands: The two
Arbitrators were exceedingly terrify'd, but not fo
much as the reftj but one of them took up the
Award which they had fign'd, in which they awar^
ded the Husband to execute the Deed to difpofe
of the Eflate from the Son.
I D/ARE fay,, faid he, be tbe Spirit a.good SpK
rit or a bad, it will not be againfl cancelling this
5
fo he tore his Name out of the Award, and fo
did the other, by his Example, and both of them
got up from their Seats, and faid they would have
no more to do in it.
But that which was mofl unexpe6ted of all-
was, that the Man himfelf was £0 frighted, that he
fainted away 5 notwithilanding it was, as it might
be faid, in his favour.
This put an end to the whole Affair at that
time 5 and, as I underfland by the Sequel, it did fo-
for ever.
The Story has many Particulars more in it, too
feog to ttoublp you. with J but two. Particulars,
M \ which.
1 64 7t)e H'tjiory and Reality
which are to the Pufpofe, I muft not omit,
Fiz.
I. That in about four or five Months more
after this fecond Apparition, the Man's Son arriv'd
from the Eaft-Indies^ whither he had gone four
Years before in a Portugueze Ship from Lisbon.
z. That upon being particularly enquired of
about thcfe Things, and efpecially whether he had
any Knowledge of them, or any Apparition to him,
or Voices, or other Intimation as to what was do-
ing in England^ relating to him ; he affirmed con-
llantly that he had not, except that once he drea-
med his Father had written him an angry Letter^
threatning him that if he did not come home he
would disinherit him, and leave him not one Shil-
ling. But he added, that he never did receive any
fuch Letter from his Father in his Life, or froiq
any one elfe.
CHAP. IX,
More Relations ofparticular FaSis^ proving
the Reality of Apparitions ; with fome juji
Obfervations on the "Difference between the
good and evil Spirits^ from the Errand or
Bujinefs they come about,
I
MAKE no Remarks upon any of thefc Sto-
ries > the prefent Bufinefs is to bring Exam-
ples of fuch Things, to prove the Reality of Ap-
paritions in general : As to who, or what it is, that
in fuch cafes may appear, and why, and upon what
pccafions 5 that we {hall fpeak of hereafter.
I SHALL bring one Example now within my
own Knowledge, and in which I had foine Con-
cern^
of APPARITIONS.
cernj hot but that other Accounts may be as au-
thencick as this, tho' I cannot fo pofitively vouch
them at fecond or third Hand. When I offer thofe
to you, therefore, I tell you honeflly that I have
fuch and fuch Relations from good Hands, or I
have fuch a Story by me in Manufcripr, and
1 leave you to make fuch ufe of them as you
pieafe.
This Caution of mine, however, ought not to
lefleh the Credit of any of the Relations here pub-
lifh*di for why may not the Account given by a-
nother Hand be as true as this which I give you
froni my own Knowledge^ and why muft an Au-
thor, in fuch cafes as thefe, be made anfwerable
for the Particulars of every Hiftory, or be bound
to leave it out, which would be the Reader's Lofs,
hot his own.
However the following I can vouch froni my
own Knowledge, ji. B. was a Merchant in Lori"
don^ and as he drove a confiderable Trade beyond-
fea, he eftabliih'd a Fa6tor, or as the Language of
Trade calls it a House, at a certain Port in the
Englijh Colonies in America^ and ftnt over his Ser-
vants or Apprentices thither, as is ufual for Mer-
chants to do.
One of his faid Apprentices being fitted out,
and ready to Embark, his Cargo being actually on
board the Ship, and the Ship fallen down the Ri-
ver as far as Gravefend-^ his Mafter was getting his
Letters and Invoyces, and other Difpatches, ready
for him, he being to go down the River the (ame
Evening.
The Hurry which thus difpatching him put his
Mafter into, occafion'd, that when he was call'd to
Dinner at the ufual Hour, he did not take the
young Gentleman with him as ufual, but told him
he muft be content to ftay in the Counting-houfe
'pill he came to relieve him.
M 4 Accord-
(58 The Hifiorj. and Reality
Accordingly Dinner being over, he goes
down to fend him up to Dinner. And when he
came to the Counting-houfe Door, there fat his
Man with the Book-keeper alfo, writing as he Icfc
him.
It happened juft that Moment, fome occafion
extraordinary oblig'd him to ftep back again, and
go up Stairs to the Dining-Room, from whence he
came 5 and intending not to flay, he did not fpeak
to the young Man, but left him in the Counting-
houfe, and went immediately up Stairs.
I T was not poflible that he, or any one elfe, ex-
cept fuch as could walk invifible, could go by, or pafs
him unfeen : Good Manners would have hindered the
young Man from thrufting by his Mafter upon the
Stairs, if he had been gonig up ; but he is pofitive
he did not, and cou'd not pafs, without beine
feen.
But when he came to the top of the Stairs
there fat the young Man at Dinner with the other
Servants J the Room they din'd in being a little
Parlour, which opcn'd juft againft the Stairs, fo
that he faw him all the way of the upper Part of
the Stair-cafe, and could not be deceived.
The Maftef did not fpeak to him, which he
was very forty for afterwards > but the Surprize
made him pafs by the Room, and go into the Di-
ning-Room, which was to the right Hand of it,
but he fent one immediately to look, and he was
there really at Dinner > fo that what he (the Ma-
fter) faw below in the Counting-houfe, muft be the
Apparition, as it certainly was.
But this was not all : The young Gentleman em-
bark'd as above, and arriv'd fafe with all his Effe6b
in America^ tho' he never liv'd to return. However,
I cannot fay his Apparition in the manner as related
could have the leaft Relation to his being fick,
and dying abroad, which was not 'till three
Years
of APPARiriONS. 169
Years afterwards. But what follow'd was of another
kind.
This young Man had an elder Brother, who
liv'd in London 'y he was a fine Gentleman, and
a Scholar, and was at that time ftudying Phyfick.
He was alfo a flout brave Gentleman, and in partir
cular underflood a Sword, that is to fay how to ufe
a Sword, as well as mofl Gentlemen'^in England.
He had an accidental Rencounter with a Gentle-
man in the Street, in that fhort Street which goes
out of Fleet-ftreet into Salisbury-Court -y and being
fo compleat a Mafler of his Weapon, he wounded
his Antagonift, and drove him into a Tavern in the
Street, from whence came out two Men more up-
on him with their Swords, but both of them found
the Gentleman fo much an Over-match for them,
that they left him as fall as the firflj whereupon a
fourth came our, not with a Sword, but a Fire-
Fork taken haftily up out of the Tavern Kitchen, and
running at this Gentleman with it, knock'd him
down, and broke his Skull, of which Wound he
afterwards died.
While this was done in London^ his Brother,
as far off as Bofton in New-England^ writing to his
Mafler the Merchant, (and who gives this Accounc
of it) after other Bufinefs, writ this Poflfcript.
S IR^ I heg you will he pleas'd in your Return ta
this to let me havefeme Account^ as much as conve-
niently may he^ of how my Brother does^ and
what Condition he is in 5 which you will excufe
my Importunity for^ when you read the follow^
tng Acccotint^ (viz.)
'THE iQth of— laft^ ahout fix a Clock in the
Morning^^ lying in my Bed^ and broad awake^ my Bro^
ther^ or an Apparition of my Brother^ came to the.
Bed's Feet^ and open'd the Curtain^ looking full in my
J^acey but did not [peak, I was very much frighted^ but
however
170 T^^ Hifiory and Jkedlity
honioever Jfo far recovered as to fay to him^ Bfothe^^
what is the matter with you ?
« HE had a Napkin-Cap on his Head^ which was
' very bloody^ he lookd very pale and ghafily^ and
* faid^ I am hafely murther'd by -^-—^ naming the
* Perfon^ but I fhall have Jufiice done me 5 and
* then difappeafd.
Now this Letter was fo dated, that it was im-
poflible any Account could be fent of the Difafter,
that could reach thither in that time 5 for it was
fiot dated above fourteen Days after the Fa6t was
committed in London '^ and that it was Genuine I
am well affur'd, becaufc I faw the Letter within
an Hour after it was received in London^ read it my
felf, and knew the young Mgn's Hand, and the
young Man alfo perfeftly well, as I did his Brother
that was kill'd alfo, very intimately.
The young Man was fober, religious and fenfi-
ble, riot given to Whimfie, or light-headed Fancies,
notvapourifhordiftemper'd, not apt to fee double, or
to dream waking, as many of our Apparition-making
People arej he was befides that a Scholar, and
very ferious : the firft 1 mention as a Prote6l:ion to
him from foolifli Imagination, and the lait from
Falftiood ; and I am fatisfy'd, the Reader may de-
pend upon both the Stories, 1 mean as to the Truth
of them.
I N my fpeaking of Apparitions as I have flated
the Cafe, I muft take leave to differ from the No-
tions of the Ancients, who 'tis evident underftood
all Apparition to be the Souls, or as we call them,
the Ghofts, of departed Perfonsj but when they
came to make rational Conclufions from thofe firlt
Opinions, What wild Additions were they driven
to make, to the firft juft Conceptions which they
had form'd in their Minds ?
of APPARITIONS. 171
Their firft Conceptions^ / fay^ were indeed jufi:,
confiftent with Reafon, and with Nature j for they
concluded, that when the Body is dead, and the
Soul feparated, the State was determin'd. This
Mr. Pope exprefles very well in his Tranflation of
Horner^
For to the farther •
Shore ^
When once we pafs^ the Soul returns no more.
This was, I fay, a rational and juft Sentiment
j
but then they were confounded in all thofe Imagi-
nations, by feeing^hc Apparitions of their departed
Friends, as if come back from thofe eternal Shades >
and how to reconcile this they did not know.
T o get over this Difficulty^ they were driven to
ftrange Shifts, and feme of them it muft be con-
fefs'd were very foolifli ones: fuch as thefej
I. That the Soul wandered about in the Air,
'till fuch time as the Body obtained its due Funeral
Rites : from this Notion, the Friends of the deceaffd
were mightily concern'd to fee the Funeral Pile
crefted for their departed Friends, and to have the
Body honourably burned j then the Alhes of the
Bones were depofited in an Urn, and that Urn bury'd
in the Earth j when this was done the Soul was admit-
ted to pafs the Flood, (that is) to be tranfported into
the Elyfian Fields, from whence they never ihould
return any morej but in cafe thefe Rites were not
performed for any Perfon, the Soul wandered reftlefs,
and unfix'd, in a ftatc of Perplexity, for an hundred
Years. Hence thofe Lines in Virgil^ ^neid. vi.
Hac omnis^ quam cernis inops inhumataque turha eft
:
Portitor ille^ Charon : hi^ quos velmt unda^ fepulth
Nee ripas datur tjorrendorS nee rauca fluenta
Tranjportare pHuSy quamfedibus offa quierunt.
'«fr'
Qntum
17^ The Hijlory and Reality
Centum errant annos, voUtantque hac littora circum :
fum demum admljjl ftagna exoptata revifunt.
-^neid lib. vi. line ^zf.
Now between this Time, or during this Inter-
val, that is to fay, between Death and the Funeral
Pile, they pretended they allow'd the feparated or
unembodied Souls of Men might appear, and vifit
their Friends, or harrafs their Enemies j and on this
Occafion, the Ghoft of Patroclus^ flain by He6lor
at the Siege of TVc^, is brought invificing his Friend
Achilles^ and begging of him to get his Funeral
Rites perform'd, that he might be admitted to Reft.
'Thus the Phantofmfaid^
Sleeps my Achilles, his Patroclus dead?
Livings Ifeem^d his deareft^ tendreft Care^
But now forgot^ I wander in the Air
:
Let my pale Corfe the Rites of Burial knoi^^
And give me Entrance in the Shades below
:
^T'ill then the Spirit finds no Refting-place^
But here and there th^ unbodied Spe^res chace
The Vagrant Dead — —^ -
•
Iliad lib. xxiii.
1. HOMER'S Notion of the State of the Dead,
Was fomething like the ancient Philofophy of the
jEgyptians^ which gave the Soul a Shape like the
Body, and that it v/as only a Receptacle of the
Mind 5 the Mind they made to be the fublime and
fuperior Part, and that only.
Thus in the Cafe of Apparitions, they allow'd
that this Cafe or Shell call'd the Soul, might ap-
pear after Death, but the Mind could nor, but
was exalted among the Gods, and took up its Eter-
nal Abode > from whence
«5 // could return no more. Thus
efJiPPARltlONS. I7J
Thus the Ghoft of Patrodus^ going with his
Speech to Achilles^ fays thus,
•
IVhen once the laft the Funeral, Flames afcend^
No more Jhall meet Achilles and his Friend:
No more our thoughts to thofe we love make knowH*
This laft Notion, tho' grofs and abfurd in it
felf, was the utmoft Refuge tney had, by which ta
folve the Difficulty of Apparitions. They imagin'd
that the Soul was not only feparated by Death from
the Body, but that there was a Separation of the
iJnderftanding from its Gafe or Vehicle, as thejr
caird it 5 fo that the Soul, which was but the 1-
mage and Form of the Body, might be in Hell j
the Body it felf burnt to Afhes remained in the
Urn 5 and the Underftanding or Mind, which was
the fublime divine Parr, be in Heaven with the
Gods : This Homer exprefTes thus,
'7/V certain Man^ thd* dead^ retains
Part of himfelf'y the immortal Mind remains
»
The Form fuhfifis without the Body's Aid^
Aerial Semblance^ and an empty Shade.
Again he explains it in his Odyffey^ lib. xi. line
Coo. fpeaking in the Name of Ulyjfes^
Now I the Strength of Hercules behold
j
A Towring Spectre of Gygantick Mouldy
AJhadowy Form ! For high in Heav'n's Abodes
Himfelf refides^ a God among the Gods,
Here Homer fancies Hercules^ that is the Mind,
the fublime Part of Hercules,, was in Heaven, an4 ex-
alted there to the higheft Degree too j
A God among the Gods.
and
3 74 ^^ Hiftory and Reality
and yet at the fame time his Soul, his etcJ^cSKov or
Image, was in Hell. And Plutarch gives us the fame
Defcription at large.
What learned Nonfenfe, and wfiat a great
deal of it is here, to reconcile a thing, which upon
the Cbriftian Foundation is made as eafie, as any
thing not immediately vifible to the common Eye,
can be made?
Nature diftated, and Reafon confirm'd, that
the firft Principle, namely, the Soul, or as they
call it, the Mind or Underftanding, fled to Heaven
immediately after Death, and return'd no more.
Thus Andromache mourning for the Lofs of her
Husband Heiior^ is brought in fpeaking according
to the Doftrinc of the Ancients
:
'thou to the dtfmal Realms for ever gone^
And I abandoned. ^ -*
The Dead once pafs'd to the difmal Realms (as
they caird the Shades below) were gone for ever^ and
to return no more •, but then they were perplex'd to
find that they did return, as in this Cafe ok Patro*
clus to Achilles j tho' that (by the way) was a Dream
only, not an Apparition, or as we may call it an
Apparition in a Dream, and no more.
But they had their Apparitions, and we read of
many Apparitions of the Dead to the Livings as
particularly in the famous Example of defar ap-
pearing to Brutus : and this perplex'd them fo, that
they knew not how to fupport the Principle of the
Soul not returning, under the Experience of Souls
adtually returning in Apparition, vifiring and con-
verfing with their Friends, which was incontefti-
ble, daily Experience making it known to all
Parties.
To reconcile this they fled to Invention, and
firlt to that of the Interval between the Death and
the
of APPARITION S. 175
the Funeral of the departed Souls 5 of which be-
fore.
But this is liable to fo many juft Exceptions,
fo many Abfurdities, that it could not fatisfie Men
of Senfe 5 for firft they were obliged to fay and
prove, (which would be very difficult) that none of
the Souls of the Dead ever appeared after the Fune-
ral Rites were folemnizedj which if one Example
had contradided, all the Arguments in the Worl4
could not then have fupported the Fiftionj and
this I cannot doubt was contradifted on many Oc-
cafions.
Anp this no doubt made the ancient Syftem of
the JEgyptlam be reviv'd, and pafs better among
them afterwards 5 tho' whether the Romans receiv'di
it or no, we do not find afcertain'd in any Part of
their Hiftory.
Besides, there was an Abfurdity in the very
Do6trinc it felfj for if the Apparition of a departed
Soul was limited by this Circumilance of burning
the Body, or performing the Funeral Rites 5 it put
the State of the Dead in that particular Refpc6b into
the Power of the Living : for Example^ If the Living,
who had PofTeffion of the dead Bodies of Perfons
flain, fuppofe them Friends, had PoflefHon of the
Body, the Soul of that Body, tho' unembodied and
difmifs'd, could not be admitted to reft, or as they
exprefs'd it, could not pafs into the Shades or Realms
below J fo if the Enemy had PofTeffion of the Body,
it was in the Power of the Enemy to keep the
Soul out of Heaven : an Abfurdity fo grofs, one
would think the wifer Heathens could never enter-
tain fuch a Thought: Yet that fuch it was, the
Words of Patrodus's Ghoft quoted from Homer
makes evident.
Let my pale Corfe the Rites of Burial kmw^
j^fid give me Entrance, in the Shades below,
Unhap-
t7^ 7^^ Hiflory and Reality
IJnhappy Patrodusf How gro(s would thi^
found, how harfh and unmufical in our Times,
when Chriftianity has given us more juft Ideas of
things ? Patrodus could not get leave to go to the
Shades below, 'till his Funeral Rites were per-
formed 3 that is, in our Senfc, could not be admitted,
no not into Hell it fclf, 'till his Body was burn'd
on the Funeral Pile or Pyre, and his Aihes depo-
fited in an Urn 3 that is, buried like a Gentleman.
B Y which Rule, the Souls of thofe poor Crea-
tures who were killed in the Wars, and were left
unburied in Heaps in the Field, or only a Pile of
Stones thrown upon them, as was often the Cafe,
are wandring ftill, and neither admitted into Hea-
ven or Hell.
Again, it was in the Power of the Enemy, if
he had a Body in Pofleflion, to prefervc his Hatred
againfl that Enemy even beyond Death, and by keep-
ing him unburied, keep his Soul or Spirit fufpended,
wandring, and forgotten in the Air, and neither ad-
mitted to one or other Place, whether above or
below.
Thus Achilles had the Body of He^or in his
Power twelve Days, and Homer brings him in
triumphing over his Enemy in that cafe, and in a
manner unworthy of a Man of Honour. When he
fpeaks to the Ghoft of his Friend Patrodus^ and
vows to facrifice twelve Trojan Prifoners at his Fu-
neral Pile j he adds,
Achilles' Promife is compleat^
The bloody \iit6kox ftretch'd before thy Feet^
Lo ! to the Dogs his Carcafe I refign*
Gloomy he faid^ and horrible in Fiew^
Before the Bier the bleeding Heflor threiv^
Prone on the Duft»
Iliad lib. xxiii. line 3f.
So
of APPARITION S. \77
So again, Achilles mourning over the Body of Pa-
trodus as it lay on the Funeral Pile, and the Fire
not yet kindled j I fay, there again he threatens to
deny He5tor a Soldier's Burial.
But heavier Fates on HeftorV Corfe attend^
Kept from the Flames for hungry Dogs to rend.
This was a terrible Curfe, and very cruel to poor
HeBor after he was dead, not to fuffer his Soul to
enter into the Shades below, which would be (to fpealc
it in our Language) not to give him leave to go to
Hell 5 that the Gods it feems thwarted Achilles^
and would not let his Cruelty take place, but he
was oblig'd to grant Priam a Truce, and let the
Trojans bury him.
So [pake he^ threatning : But the Gods made vain
His Threat^ and guard inviolate the Slain,
Celeftial Venus hover'd o'er his Head^
And rofeat Unguents^ heavenly Fragrance ! Jhed',
She watch'd him all the Nighty and all the Day^
And drove the Blood-hounds from their dejlin'd Prey,
So that the Burying of HeBor was made the Care
of the Gods, defeating the cruel Vengeance of
Achilles.
To what Length did this foolifh Notion of the
Ancients carry this Point ! putting it into the Power
of a Man's Enemy to keep his Soul out of Heaven
too, as long as his Enemy thought fit to keep the
Body out of the Grave.
H A p p Y it is for us in thefe malicious Days that
it is otherwife here> when not Enemies only, but
even cruel Creditors, might arreft the dead Body of
their Debtor, and even fend the Soul of him to the
DevilJ
or keep it hovering and wandring in the Air
'till their Debts were paid : As Times go noWj and
N as
78 The Hijiory ^nd Reality
as Charity ftands now rated among us, no poor
Debtor could be at Reft any more after he was Dead,
than he could before, 'till his Debts were all paid.
Nay, tho' it had pleas'd a merciful Father to
forgive him his Sins, and as we allow it*s poffible,
in fpite of the cruel f ^S*
• that a
Brankrupt may die in the State of a pardoned Peni-
tent j yet I fay 'till the Debt was paid the more
inexorable Creditor Ihould refufe to let him be ad-
mitted into Heaven 'till he was paid the utmoft
Farthing.
I MUST confefs if this were the Cafe among
us, I believe it would be the hardeft thing in the
World to get a poor Bankrupt's Compofition ac^
cepted, or his Certificate figned > for if it was in
the Power of the Creditors to fend their Debtors
to the Devil^ I fhould be apt to fiy with the Di-
fciples of our Lord, Who then Jljall he faved?
How often do we find a Creditor give it for an
Anfwer, when a folliciting Friend comes begging
him to compound, and to accept the utmoft Shil-
ling that the Debtor has to offer: How often, /
fay^ do we find the cruel Creditor reply. No not /,
rilfign none of it^ the Devil fiall ha^ve him before I'll
fign it?
Nay, if his Soul was to hover in the Air, as
the Ancients fancy'd, 'till the Body was buried > I
queftion whether they would let the Debtor go ei-
ther to Heaven or Hell 'till they had their Money
;
cfpecially if the hovering or wandering in the Air
was a worfe Condition, as 1 don't know but, while
the Devils are faid to be there, it may.
But to return to the Ancients and their Noti-
on of Futurity, and of Souls departed, the Diffi-
culty, as 1 have obferved, was very perplexing :
They granted that after the Souls of Men were
once determined, and tranfported in Charon's Ferry-
boat to the other fide of the River i'/j.v, or the
Sty^
of APPARITIONS. 17^
Stygian Gu\^h^ they could return no more 5 and all
their other Fables upon that Subje6t would have
been overthrown and come to nothing, if it had
been otherwife j fuch as Cerberus barking continual-
ly at the Gate, Charon the Ferry-man carrying all
over but bringing none back, and the like.
But notwithltanding this, as I have laid, they
found feveral of thefe Souls vifiting the World in
Apparition, and this quite deftroy'd all the Scheme
of their being in a detcrmin'd State > fo that they
knew not what to think of next.
How would it have unravell'd all thofe hard
Knots, and made every thing eafie to their Under-
Handing, had they been let into this juft way of
reafoning ? had they difcover'd that there is an An-
gelick World, an invifible World of Spirits, fomc
of whom being placed by their merciful Maker,
as an advanc'd Body, at or near the outer Circum-
ference of the Earth's Atmofphere, have a Power
given them at lead to take Cognizance of human
Affairs 5 and to converfe with this World, either
by Apparition, Voices, Noifes, good or bad Omens,
or other fenfible Conveyances to the Mind, by
which they can give Notices of Good or Evil, and
can intimate to Man many things ufeful to him
in the Condu6i: of his Life.
That t-he Spirits inhabiting this invifible World
are at hand 5 (how near is not neceffary to us to
know) can affume Bodies, Shape, Voice, and even
can perfonate this or that Man or Woman > fo as
to appear in the very Figure, Countenance, and
Cloaths or Drefs of our departed Friends, fpeak
with their proper and diftin6t Voices, and in the
firft Perfon of this or that particular Man or Wo-
man, and in their Names 5 and can thus fuit them*
felves in their feveral Appearances, to the Occa-r
fion they appear for;
N z Had
i8o The Hijlory and Reality
Had they known thefc things, I fay, they
would have rejoic'd in the Difcovery, and it would
have made every thing eafie to them. Patrodus
would never have troubled Achilles with a Vifit
from the Air, upon pretence of his being left to
be wandring about the Atmofphere for want of
his Funeral Rites > the Dogs, or the Crows, or the
Worms might have fcafted themfelves on Hector's
Carcafs, it would never have difturb'd HeSlor in the
leaft, much lefs would her Goddefs-fhip Ferns have
concern'd herfelf to proted his Corps 'till the fu-
neral Pile was prepared.
The Do6trine of the Soul's being a Shell or
Cafe form'd into a Shape, as a Mould is form'd into
Shape to receive the Brafs or Copper, and throw
out a Statue or Figure of this or that Heroe, which
it is appointed to form j I fay, this abfurd Do6trine
of the Soul, Body and Mind being three diftin6b
Perfons in every Man, would not have found Place
in the World 5 but all things would have been
conceiv'd regularly of, and the World would have
been rightly inform'd of future things, as well as
of things prefent.
However, to bring it down to our Cafe, all
this concurs to the Dodbrine of Spirits, and the
Reality of their Appearance, which is the Cafe be-
fore us: Their Friends departed did appear > what
it was appear'd they knew not, only negatively
they knew it was not their Bodies, however the
Shape might be aflumed 5 nor could they reconcile
that Part to their Underftanding. How it could
be, that the Body feem'd to appear and did not
appear 5 or, as we might fay, appear'd as if they
had appear'd 5 but when a Tryal was offer'd, no
Body could be found, as was the Cafe of PatrO"
clus and Achilles in Horner^ which Mr. Pope thus
tfanflatesj
H8
i
of APPARITIONS. i8i
He faid^ and with his longing Arms ejfafd
In vain to gf'afp the vijionary Shade,
Like a thin Smoke he fees the Sprit fly
^
And hears a feeble lamentable Cry.
How grofs an Ignorance is here in fo great a
Man as Achilles ? to go about to grafp a Viiion ! to
feel a Shade ! One can hardly exciife the Poet for
allowing Achilles^ who was the Heroe of the whole
Poem, to be fo weak, even in thofe Days 3 but ic
muft be allowed 'twas all in a Dream, and imagi-
nary, and it might well awake him indeed, as it
did, to grafp at a Man in Armour, and find nothing
in his Arms but Smoke.
The Refult of it all is this, namely, the Re-
ality of Apparition was a certain, undoubted, and
received thing -, 'tis evident that they were noc
quelHonedj for upon the Reality of the Appear-
ance of Souls, all thofe Pains were taken to fettle
the Poffibility of it. That it was fo, the Fre-
quency of the thing left them no Room to que-
Itionj it would have been ridiculous to have d'l^-
puted it J but how it could be, how to reconcile
it to all the Notions of Soul and Body, the fu-
ture and the prefent State, that was what no bo-
dy could explain, and no body could undcrftand 5
which Ignorance put their Invention fo much on the
Rack to find out and form Schemes fox the bringing
the Particulars together, and making the Appearance
poffible, whichthey daily found was in Fad; real.
'TwAs a little ftrange that tho' they were
fatisfied by daily Demonilration that the Thing
was true, yet they were obliged to believe it was
not true at the fame time. They frequently faw
their Friends appear, and yet knew they were not
in a Condition from whence they could return to
appear. But the ftrangeft thing of all, at lead to
N J
mcj
iSz The Hijiory and Reality
me, is, that they iliould not, all this while, con-
ceive the Poflibility of Spirits afTuming human
Shape, and appearing in their Figures, in their
Shapes, and in their Names.
This would have put an end to all the Dif-
ficulty, and have reconciled all the Doubts that
attended it, and at the fame time would have led
them into feveral fublime Truths, fuch as they
were perhaps perfeftly ignorant of5 as particularly
into the great Dodrine of the Unity of infinite
power 5 the univerfal Empire of Providence, and its
Government and Influence of and upon all the
Affairs of this World, even the mod minute things
in Life 5 and many other valuable Inquiries.
That Apparitions were believed to be real in
thofe Days, is evident from many Inftances of it given
in Hiftory, tho' I have not room to look far back.
'Tis faid ih^t y^Iexander the Great was haunted by the
Ghoft of his Friend Clitus^ whom he had moll un-
gratefully tortur'd to Death, after a long Series of
the moft faithful Services, and fuccefsful alfo 5 but
there is no particular Account of it in Plutarch.
The Apparition of the Gholl of Julius Cafar
to Brutus a little before the Battel at Philippic tho'
it be certain, is neverthelefs varioufly reported 3
fome i\ccounrs relate it to be the Ghofl oi Julius
C^far^ and vulgar Opinion concurs with that Re-
port 3 which is fo received at this time, that they
fliovv you an original antient Piece of fine Italian
Painting at Naples^ where the Phantome is repre-
fented bloody and wounded, with Cafca's Dagger
flicking in his Shoulder, which he, Cafia^ reaching
his Arm over his Shoulder fix'd in or near his Col-
lar Bone before, and left flicking there 5 according
to which our Frontefpicce to this Work is at leaft
defign'd; Whether that Part of the Story be right
reprefented or not, is difficult to determine.
But
of APPARITIONS. 183
B o T according to Other Accounts, the Appari-
tion was only of a Man, without any Similicude
of Cafars and that when Brutus^ who was bufy
writing Difpatches for his Army which was then
drawing together to fight the Oclavian Troops,
look'd up and faw him, he boldly ask'd, What art
thou ?and the Apparition anfwer'd, lam thy evil Genius^
and I will meet thee again at Philippi j to which the
undaunted Hero, unconcern'd at the Sighj", and as
if he defir'd him not to dillurb him at that time,
he being then otherwife engaged, .anfwcr'd5 JVell^
ril meet thee there^ and fo went on with his wri-
ting.
B RUTUS was, without doubt, a Fleroe in his
perfonal Valour, and more fo in his Principle, viz.
the Love Of Liberty, and of his Country > and as
nothing but the Zeal for the Liberty of his Coun-
try could have embark'd him againfl the Life of
Cafar^ who was otherwife his Benefadtor, fo he
was above the Fear of Death, and could not be in
the leaft daunted at the Fore-knowledge of his Fare
at Philippic feeing he had the Notion of Life which
was general at that time, namely, that a true He-
roe could never be miferable, (ince it was always
in his Power to die a Freeman, and not to out-live
any threatned Calamity, whether Perfonal or Na-
lional.
Upon this foot he enter'd that unequal Battel
againfl the O61avianXx00^^ with an undaunted Chear-
fulnefsj for he was fure one way or other to come
©ff vicloriousj that is to fay, that if Auguftus con-
quered his Army, he knew how to conquer Auguftus 5
if by the Slaughter of his Troops Cafar had the
better of him and defeated his Dcfigns for the Li-
berty of his Country, He, by the Slaughter of him-
felf, knew how to defeat Auguftus in his Defigns of
conquering Brutus^ fince herefolv'd to die free, and
not furvive the Roman Liberty j and fo he did.
N 4 Ani>
184 7i^^ Hijloyy and Reality
And upon this Foundation it was, that he was
fo unconcerned at his approaching Fate, and- fo
undaunted in his looking at and fpeaking to the
Spectre that appeared to him.
But we have yet abundance more Proofs by
Example of the Reality of Apparitions.
ALA RICH the famous GothkkYsJmg^ who o-
ver-run fo much of the Roman Empire, had an Ap-
parition which came to him, and told him he
fhould undertake his Expedition againft the Romans^
and that promised him Vi6tory and Succefs 5 forae
faid it was an Angel, others that it was the Ghoft
of his deceafed PredecefTor Rhadagaifeus, When he
firft undercook to raife his Army he v/as intending
to go upon a glorious Expedition to the Eaft, to
*wit^ againft the Hunns and the Heruli 5 that is to
fay, into Poland^ Schvonia and Hungaria^ and per-
haps Mufeovy or Rufjia. But upon the Apparition
fpeaking to him, he was encouraged to undertake a
War againft the Romans in Italy^ where notwith-
llanding he was routed and utterly ovei^hrown by
Stilico i he afterwards returned into Italy^ kill'd
Stillco the Roman General, over- run the Country,
and took and plundered the City of Rome it felf j
this was Ann. 40P : fo that the Apparition,of what-
ever kind it was, muft be fo far Angelic as to fore-
know Events and Iftiies of things on Earth, which
jDuft be fuitable to the Angelic Heavenly Spirits,
and fuperior to the Diabolic Spirits who know
nothing Prophetic.
Nor is it any thing inconfiftent with the An-
gelic exalted and good Spirits > for this was not
encouraging Evil, but ftirring up a powerful
Prince, who was to be Flagellum Dei^ to exe-
cute the Divine Vengeance upon that wicked Peo-
ple the Romans^ whom God had refolved to deftroy,
or at leail to reduce very low : like as God is
faid
of APPARITIO NS. i8j
(aid to flir up Nebuchadnezzar King of Bahylon to
come up againft Jerufalem.
I SAY this could not be the Devil, be-
) caufe (as I have always infifted upon it, fo I do ftill)
that he knows nothing of what is to comej the
Devil is no fProphet, he cannot foretell or predi6i:,
other than by probable GuefTes, rational Confe-
quences, and fuch Circumftances in which he can
go farther than other People.
You have an Example of this in the famous
Sorcerefs Jaquelina -, fhe pretended to fpeak in the
Name of the Devil, and fometimes to have the
Devil fpeak in her, and fo to give Anfwers as by an
Oracle, and refolve Doubts and difficult Queftions,
which flie did to Admiration 3 and thereby got both
Fame and Money. Now it was obferv'd that when
People came to her with Doubts and difficult Cafes,
even fuch as none could refolve, relating to things
paft or prefent, her Anfwers were furprizing ; but
if they came to her to ask any Opinion of things
future, and what ihou-ld be to come, the Devil was
always Nonpluft, and generally lyed in his Anfwers
j
fo that none could depend upon any thing he faid.
In a word the Devil was not able to foretell any
thing J and hence I infer, as I have always faid, the
Devil is no Prophet, he can predi6t nothing, for
he knows nothings and thatif any Apparition comes
to be feen or heard, who takes upon it to tell
what fhould come to pafs, you may depend upon it
that Apparition is not from the Devil,
Hence 1 think we may readily account for
that Story fo well publifh'd, whether fo well
known or no,of which Mr. Aubrey has given us the
lall; Relation, as follows :
"Two Perfons (Ladies) of Quality, both not
'' being long lince deceafed, were intimate Acquain-
^' tance,and lov'd each other intirely : It fo fell our,
^^ that one of them fell fick of the Small-Pox, and
" deiired
l8(J The Htjiory and Reality
" defired mightily to fee the other, who would
'^ not come, fearing the catching of them j the
^* AfHi6ted at lafl; dies of them : (he had not been
*' buried very long, but ihe appears at the other's
'^ Houfe in the drefs of a Widow, and asks for her
'' Friend who was then at Cards, but fends down
^' her Woman to know her BuGnefs> who in
*' fhort told her, {he muft impart it to none but
'^ her Lady, who after {he had received this An-
*' fwer, bid her Woman have her into a Room, and
^' defire her to ftay till the G^ime was done, and
*
" {he would wait on her. The Game being done,
'^ down Stairs (he came to the Apparition5io know
*' her Bufinefs. Madam^ fays the Ghoft turning up
•^ her Veil, and her Face appearing full of the
*' Small- Pox, Tou know 'very well that you and I
*^ lov'd intirely^ and your not coming to fee me I took
'^
fo ill at your Hands^ that I could not reft 'till I had
'*
fern you^ and now I am come to tell you^ that you
*' have not long to live^ therefore prepare to die j and
*' when you are at a Feaft^ and make the thirteenth in
** Number^ then remember my IFords-y and fo theAp-
'' parition vanidiM. To conclude, fhe was at a
'' Feaft where ihe made the thirteenth Perfon in
'' Number 5 and was afterwards asked by the de-
** ceas'd Brother, whether his Sifter did appear to
*' her, as was reported 5 {he made him no Anfwer,
*' but fell a weeping, and died in a little time after.
'^ The Gentleman that told this Story, fays, that
" there is hardly any Perfon of Quality but what
*'
knows it to be true.
I DO not enter into an Enquiry here whether the
Story is true or no, I believe it in Common, for ic
was generally believ'd to be true : But 'tis ftrange
to have this brought for an Evidence of the Pre-
fcience of the Devil y whereas on the contrary it con-
firms what I have {aid, viz. That this cou'd not be
theZ)m/,or what we call the Appearance of the De^
*vil^
of APPARITIONS. x%7
'vil<i no, nor could it be the Sonl of the departed
jPerfon j and for the Apparition faying it could not
'beatrefl:5either it may be put in by fome of the very
many Authors relating the Story j or it might be
faid by the good Angel or Spirit appearing, to in-
troduce her MefTage, and to rouze the Mind of the
Perfon fpoken to by fomething that fhould touch
her more to the quick, be the more feeling and
fenfible to her, and fo make a due Imprcflion upon
her of the truth of that which was to follow.
But firft, for its not; being the Devil, for I
have granted that the Devil may make an Appari-
tion, tho' far from inferring from thence that all
Apparitions are the Devil : But I fay as to its not
being the Devil that appear'd here, in the fhape of
the deceased Lady, 'tis Evident,
FIRSTj Becaufe, as I faid above, and have re-
peated often, the Devil cannot predi6t, he has no
Prefcience of things before they are in View 5 he
can juggle and play fcurvy Tricks of many kinds,
as when he prophefied to the Farmer the fall of
his ftack of Corn, and then rais'd a fudden Stormi
and blew it down. It may be he can fee at fomc
farther Diftance than we can, and judge ofthe Confe-
quences of fuch and fuch Caules better than wc
can, and with a more perfe6i: and exa6i: Judgment.
But to predidt things which are only conceal'd in
the Womb of Time, and behind the Curtain of
Providence, as this of Life and Death was, it is
not in Satan to do it 5 and therefore this could not
be from the Devil: the Lady was in Health, was
Chearful, nay Merry, was at a Feaft and at Cards.
Here was no (ignal of Death, or fo much as of
Sicknefs: I fee no token of the Devil in this Ap-
parition 5 except it be his extraordinary Civility
that he would not interrupt her Game.
SECOND LT, It could not be the Devilj
hecaufe of his bidding the Lady prepare for Death 5
whichj
lU 5f The Hifiory and Reality
which, as I have often obferv'd, does not feem to be
much of Satan's Bufinefs, not being very fuitable
to his Difpofition, and lefs to his Defign.
There is fome little Incongruity in this Story
too, which renders it inconfiftent, not with the De-
yil only, but even with the Nature of a Spirit or
Apparition: As (i) Why fhould the Apparition come
when the Lady was engaged and could not fpeak
to her ? as if fhe, being a Ghofl or Spirit as we
vulgarly exprefs it, did not know what fhe
was doing, as well as where fhe was? (i) How does
her taking ill the living Lady's notvifiting her, ob-
lige her to come and give her this kind Notice of
her Death ?i / took it fo ill at your Hands^ that I
could not reft ""till I hadfeen you.
Tho' this does not fhock my Belief of the
Apparition it felf j yet it feems to hint that the
feveral Hands thro' which the Relation has pafs'd,
have made up the Speech for the Ghoft, and com-
mitted fome Blunders in it,that are indeed ihocking
to the Reader.
1 T feems more rational to be as I have read the
Story, that the Ghofl (hould fay thus: 'Tho'* I took
it very ill at your Hands that you woiCd not come to
fee me-y yet I could not reft 'till I had feenyou^ to
tell you that you have not long to live^ and that you
jhould prepare^ 6cc. This is much better Senfe, and
more agreeable to the Nature of the things for
certainly coming in that manner to give the Lady
Notice of the Approach of her End, and tocoun-
fel her to prepare accordingly^ mufi: be allow'd to be
an a£t of Kindnefs, not of Refentment, and a Te-
ilimony of the AflFe6l:ion that was between them 5 and
therefore her taking it ill that fhe had not been to
Vifit her in her lllncfs, could not rationally be
given as a Reafon for it.
But as to the Apparition it fclf, fince it could
not be the Soul of the deceas'd Lady, and for the
Reafons
of APPARITIO NS. i8p
Reafons above was not likely to be the Devil, or I
may venture to fay poGtively was not the Devil
^
What then was it ? I anfwcr with a Qaeftion :
What could it be but a good Angel, or Angelic
Spirit from the Invifible World, fent with a Mef-
fage of Goodnefs, and a merciful Notice of her
Approaching Death } that fhe might receive a due
caution, preparing her Mind and turning her
Thoughts to a proper Meditation upon fo ferious a
Subjed > in a word, warning her of Death that fhe
might prepare for it ?
The Story of Sir John Burrougbs's Son, who
forfaking a Miftrefs in Italy fhe murther'd her felf,
and then haunted him as long as he liv'd, this is
of like kind with the reft > and tho' the Devil to
worry and perplex him might take up the Appea-
rance of his Whore, as well reproaching him with
the Crime, as with her Tragical Endj yet it goes
no farther than this, that the Devil may appear, and
may harrafs and terrify thofe he appear'd to, and
this I make no doubt of j and it rather adds to
what is iniifted on, I mean the Reality of Appari-
tions •, but the Devil gave this Gentleman no good
advice to repenc,or prepare, and the like 5 but only
^appear'd, frighted, and terrify'd him to the very
Day of his Death.
I T is alfo remarkable, that tho' this Devil in
Apparition fhev/ed it felf to him the very Day of
his Death, (for he was kilPd that Day in a Duel)
yet it faid not a word to him of what was to befall
him, or of what he was going to do, and 'cis very
probable did not know it.
There is another Story fomething but darkly
recorded of Charles VII. of France, which feems
likely enough to be an Apparition of the DeviU
That King had been diil;pmper'd and very, ill two or
three times, but was recovered again tolerably well,
and was riding for the Benefic of the Air in the
Foreft
lOo The Hijiory and ReaTttj
Forefl: of Mms : On a fudden a Spectre ftarts up or
out of the Woods, being a» tall meagre ill-look'd
old Man, of ghaftly Countenance and half naked,
and coming directly to the King takes hold of his
Horfe's Bridle, and fays, Stop^ King: Whether go you ?
you are betray'd : and then immediateiy vanifhed.
Now firft of all, this was a falfhood in Fa6t, for
the King was not betray'd by any body 5 neither
was there any Plot againft him, or againft any that
belong'd to him, ever heard of before, or after-
wards J on the contrary. Secondly^ his Reign was
at that time peaceable and quiet, his Subjects all
eafy s and for his Perfon, he hadfo few Enemies that
he was calPd Charles the Beloved^ and was exceed-
ingly tendred by the generality of his People.
A GOOD Spirit, an Angelic Spirit, one of the
Sacred Guard I have fuppos'd to be placed about
this Earth, or in the Regions adjacent, and em-
ployed by their Bountiful Maker for the good of
Mankind, would never have come in fuch a man-
ner, furprifing, and at unawares. It would never
have put on a fierce and frightful Countenance,
thus to have terrified a poor dillemper'd Prince,
whofe Brain was already diforder'd 5 taking the ad-
vantage of his Weaknefs, and fo to encreafe the
Frenzy and Diftra6tion of his Mind even to his
Deftruftion, for he never more perfeftly recovered
his Senfes.
This mightily diiFer'd from the Condu6t of the
feveral Spirits appearing in the Examples mentioned
before, and who kindly warn'd thePerfons of Dan-
ger, foretold Events that they might avoid them,
or prepare for the Confequences j in a word, this
was an Apparition purely Devilip^^or it wasmeerly
to do Evil, and to the ruin of the Perfon to whom
it appear'd.
1 THINK nothing can be a jufter Rule for us to
diilinguifh Apparitions by : the Evil Spirit, Devil
like,
of APPARITIONS. ipi
like, comes to deceive, he is the Father of Lyes;
and comes to do hurt, he is a Lover and the Au-
thor of Mifchief. The good Spirit is from God, the
Fountain of all Good, and appears always for good
and merciful Purpofesj and this I think is ajuft
Obfervation, and a Rule for us to judge of the Na-
ture of whatever Apparitions we hear of.
CHAP. X.
Of the different Nature of Apparitions ;
how we jhould behave to them ; when to
be afraid of or concerned about them^ and
when not,
DANGER maybe the Reafon of Caution;
but Guilt only is the reafon of Fear. Caution
is the Mind's juft Regard to the Evil in view; but
Fear is a Horror of the Soul, in apprehcnfion of
fome farther Evil yet out of view j unfeen, and
therefore terrible j merited, and therefore dreadful.
If there were no Guilt in the Mind, Death it
felf would be no Evil, and therefore not the Sub-
je6t of our Fear; nor is Death it felf our Fear now
as it is in it felf a meer paffing out of life, otherwife
than as it is an inlet of fome terrible State beyond ir.
It is not what we pafs out of, that is the bitternefs,
but what we pafs into ; not what we part with, but
what the Exchange will be 3 not the leap out of
Light, but the leap into the Dark ; and to come
nearer to it, the Thought of what is beyond Death
is only made better or worfe by what we know
on this fide of it 5 the Dread of what is to come, is
founded on our confcious fenfe of what is pad.
This State beyond Death is made our Terror,
as we expedc in ic the Punifliment of OfFcnces, a
Retri-
ipi The Hijlory and Reality
Retrbitution for an ill-fpent Life, and as we have
upon our Minds a Senfe of Guilt ; that is to fay, a
Confcience of having ill-fpent our paft time, and
dreading the Juftice of the Superior Hand, in whom
is the Power of Rewards and Punifhmems. Now
to bring it to the cafe in Hand.
All Apparition is look'd upon as a fomething
coming, or fent tous,from that State of 5^/;^!^which
is beyond Death, and therefore is look'd upon with
the fame Terror and Fright, which we are feiz'd
with at the Thoughts oF Death it felf
Hence, if we could confider calmly the Nature
of the Apparition which we fee, we might pre-
fently know whether we had reafon to be terrified
at the Apparitionjj^e-^ or no: If the Apparition comes
with a Meflage of Peace, if it reprehends with
Kindnefs and Tendernefs, if it admoniihes with Gen-
tlenefs, and gives Advice to amend and reform, it
certainly comes from a good Hand, and we need be
under no concern at all about it, becaufe it has no
Evil in it felf
I F it come in all its threatning Poflures, ghaflly
as the Devil can make it, horrible as himfelf in Per-
ibnj yet were there no Guilt there would be no
fear from the Apparition, or even from the Devil ap-
pearing in Perfon j becaufe we fliould know our
felves to be out of his Power.
As then the Good or Evil of the Meflage,
which the Apparition brings, diftingui{hes the Ap-
parition it felf, and tells us of what kind it isj fo
as our Minds are, or are not intimidated by our own
Guilt, fo we have or have not reafon to be fur-
priz'd at the Appearance of a Me{renger,or Meflen-
gers, from the invifible World, or at whatever he
lb all fay.
Hie mtirus aheneus eflo^
Nil confcireftbi nulla palefcere culpa.
Mr.
of APPARITIONS. 1^3
Mr. Auhery gives us the Story in his Mifcellanea of
the Apparition to Capio Burroughs^ Efqj in the time
of King Charles I, and which 1 hinted at jufl now
on another occafionj the Story is as follows ;
" Sir John Burroughs being fent Envoy to
'^ the Emperor by King Charles I. did take his
'' Eldeft Son Cajhio Burroughs along with himj
^' and taking his Journey through Italy left his faid
'^ Son at Florence^ to learn the Language > where
*' he having an Intrigue with a beautiful Courti-
" fan, Miftrefs to the Grand Duke, their Fami-
*' liarity became fo publick, that it came to the
'' Duke's Ear, who took a Refolution to have him
*' murder'dj but Cajhio having had timely notice
" of the Duke's Defign, by feme of the Englijh
'' there, immediately left theCity without acquaint-
*' ing his Miftrefs of it, and came to England.
" Whereupon the Duke being difappoinced of his
''
Revenge fell upon his Miltrefs in moil reproach-
^' ful Language : She, on the other, fide refencing
*' the fudden departure of her Gallant, of whom
*' {he was mod paflionately enamour'd, killed her
'' felf. At the fame Moment that fhe expired fhe
*' did appear to Cajhio at his Lodgings in London.
*' Colonel Rentes was then in Bed with him, who
'^ faw her as well as he, giving him an account of
*' her Refentments of his Ingratitude to her, in
" leaving her fo fuddenly, and expofing her to the
" Fury of the Duke 5 not omitting her own Tra*
^' gical Exit j adding withall, that he fhould be
" flain in a Duel > which accordingly happeh'd :
*'
And thus flie appear'd to him frequently^ even
*' when his younger iBrother (who afterwards was
" Sir John) was in Bed with him. As often as fli©
'^ did appear he would cry out with great Shrieking
*' and Trembling of his, Body, as well as Anguifh
*' of Mind, faying, O GO D ! here fiie comes^ Jhe
'' comes ! and at this rate (he appear'd 'till he . was
O ' '' kill'd.
ip4 ^^ Hifiory and Reality
*' kill'd. She appeared to him the Morning before
" he was killed. Some of my Acquaintance (fays
^^ Auhery) have told me, that he was one of the
'' handfomeft Men in England^ and very Valiant.
The Appearance of this Devil^ for I can call it
no other, had nothing in View but to harrafs,
plague and affright the Gentleman : Perhaps ex-
pelling it fhould bring him into feme fit of Defpe-
ration j fo to deflroy himfelf, as the Woman who
appear'd had done before.
The Gentleman whom it appear'd to, was con-
fcious of Crime 5 the Woman in whofe lliape the
Devil thus harrafs'd him was a Courtefan^ that is in
EngUJJj a Common Woman, with whom he had
had an Intrigue in Italy : He had not only been
difhonefl with her, but it feems had been difhoneft
to her 5 and the laft, with the afliflance of the
Devil, had it feems work'd fo upon her Rage as to
caufe her to be her own Executioner j and I take
the Apparition to be the Devil purfuing the fame
Management, and endeavouring to produce the
fame Effe<5b upon him.
Now fee the Confequence of Crime: the fenfe
©f Guilt makes this Apparition dreadful to him 5
when it appear'd, he trembles, falls into Convul-
lions, cries out, O GODI here Jhe comes f and in a
word, is in an Agony of horror and affright.
H A D he only convefs'd with the Lady as a com-
mon Atqiiaintance, had he neither bee:n concern*d
with her, or had done any difhonourable thing by
her, he had natural Courage to have look'd the
Devil in the Face, and boldly have ask'd what bu^
finefs fhe could have with him.
I HAVE read of a Story of a very religious La-
dy, who the Devil^ it feems, had fome particular
Picque at, and fet all his Stratagems at work to
ruin her, both Soul and Body. He attack'd her in a
hundred fevcral ways in Covertj as I may call it,
that
of APPARITIONS. ip;
that is to fay by Attempts to draw her into Crime,
alluring her, and laying Snares for her of feveral
kinds. But when he found himfelf fteadily refifted
by the Lady's refolv'd Virtue, Modefty and Tem-
perance, he attacked' her in Perfon with frightful
Apparitions, afluming ugly and terrible Shapes 5 and
once appearing all in Fire, with a frightful threat-
ning Voice, he told her he was come to fetch her
away: The Lady had a fecret Spirit of Courage and
Refolution came upon her at the very Moment,
and, as we fay in other cafes, brisking up to him
as if fhe would fight him j Rcfift the Devilj fays
Jhe^ and he fliall flee from us ! come "for me ! added
Jhe^ ril venture that ! for I am fure thou lieft, Sa^
tan^ thou haft nothing to do with me.
The Devil call'd her Whore, and told her fhe
lov'd fuch a Man, who was a marry'd Man, and
therefore fhe had intentionally committed ^Vhore-^
dom with him, and fliould be damn'd.
N. B. It feems the Lady had lov*d that Gentlemart
before he was otherwife engag'd^ by marrytng j
hut had never had any Thought towards him^ -
or the leaf Acquaintance with hiM^ afterwards.
Thou fhoweft thyfelf, fays foe^ to be full of
Subtilty, a real Devil^ and even Malice itfelf : it is
true, I did love that Gentleman, fays fie^ and thou
fettedft him to work to perfuade me that he lov'd
me, and to court me with honourable Pretenfions,
and fo far gain'd upoh me, that I really loVed him j
but—
Here he interrupted her, and told her, Such a
time, fays the Devil^ you wifh'd you were a-bed
with him, and you are as guilty by wilhing to Sin^
as if you had done it.
Thou art the Father of Lies, Satan^ fays Jhe^-
and the Father of Lyars, and thou lieft in this> nay^
thou lieft like a Devil^ that is malicioufly, for thou
knoweft that it is not true.
O 1 Yotj
1^6 The Hijiorf and Reality ,
You will be damn'd, fays he, and I will take
you away this minute.
Thou canft not take me away without God's
Perroiflion, fays Jhe^ and he will not give me into thy
Hands i therefore touch me at this Peril: and with
that ihe fell down on her Knees, and cry'd. Lord,
preferve me from the evil Spirit : with which the
Devil left her, and walk'd off.
These are Apparitions that may be call'd Ap-
paritions of Devils indeed, and by his Works you
may know him, for this is a6ting like himfelfj but
where there is no Guilt we need not be afraid of
the Devil^ in whatever Shape or frightful Figure
Jie thinks to attack us in.
This Lady had never been able to reproach
Satan with Lying, if what he faid had been true 5
but fhe knew herfelf innocent,and that put Courage
into her Soul, that fhe indeed Bully'd the Devily
defy'd him, and bad him do his worft.
I T feems the Devil rumag'd hard to find a
Crime out to charge this Lady with, and came up
to her very clofe > but he was put to his fhifts for
Evidence 5 for even in colle6ling all the A6tions of
her Life, he could not find any thing of real Guilt
to load her with.
HE attacked her after this in feveral Shapes, and
one time he told her fhe wou'd be damn'd for a
Hypocrite > for, fays he, for all your pretended
Sanctity you was in a violent Pallion at fuch a
time, and you curft your Coufin ^
naming her
Name to her.
She anfwer'd, as before, boldly 5 And Satan, fays
fljey tho' you are a Devil, and cannot be afham'd, yet
you are too cunning and too knowing to a6t like
a Fool J 1 was angry, but in no Paffion^ and for my
Anger I had jull caufej but thou waft the caufc
of the Crime, and fo of the Anger too : For fhe
own'd the Devil tempted my Kinfwoman to rob
I- r:> T me.
of APPARITIO NS. ip7
rhe, fo thou haft been the Occafion both of her
Sin, and of my Anger.
But you curs'd her, and wifh'd the Devil (mean-,
ing me, fays he) might take her.
That's like thee again, Devil, fays the Lady^l
was far from wifhing thou fhouldft take her, I am not
fo much thy Friend<to wiih thou fhouldft be gra-
tified in any one's Ruin. But I told her, indeed,
if fhe did fuch things, thou wouldft take her a-
way.
But you ly'd in that, fays he, for I won't hurt
her,
I AM forry, fays jhe, thou art fo much her
Friend.
She is mine already, adds the Devil, I fhall not
do her any harm.
Very well, Devil, fays foe \ then I hope I am
out of your Lift, or why elfe are you raging at
me ?
Yes, yes, fays he, you fhall be mine quickly, as
well as fhe.
I DEFY thee, fays fie again, and I'll tell the poor
Girl what you fay of her. I hope fhe will get out
of your Hands again.
Then I'll break her Neck that Minute, fays
he.
That's not in your Power, fays the Lady.
Well, but, fays he, you play'd at Cards on
Sunday Morning laft.
She was a little furpriz'd at the Charge, and
ftop'd a-whilej but recovering her Courage, 'Tis
ftrange. Devil, fays fhe, thou canft bring nothing
but Lyes againftmej why I have Faults enough,
that are real Faults, and true, and that I could not
deny. Why I think Satan" % turn'd Fool, adds fhe,
as if (he jeer'd him. Why don't you fall upon me
in thofe rhings I am guilty of? and not make L
Q 5
jp8 The Htjior^ and Realfty
for the fake of lying ? I did play at Cards a Sa^
iurday Night, but not a Sunday Morning.
But, faid he, you play'd at Cards againft your
Confcience too, when you believ'd it was a Sin to
play, and you will be damr^'d for that.
Why truly, Devil^ fays Jbe^ you go ncareft
the Truth in this of any thing you have faid 5
for after our Minifter's talking againft Play, one
Evening, he fo far perfuaded me that it was not
lawful, that I did refolve to leave it off.
But you broke your Word, and play'd again;
and did it, I tell you, againft your Confcience.
I D I D not tie myfelf by any Promife, but I dicj
queftion a little, indeed, whether I ftiould play a-
ny mce or no.
Yes, and did it againft your Confcience, I tell
you, and you fhall be damned for that.
Here the Lady could not refrain Tears 5 but
ftill ftie anfwer'd the De^uil boldly: As thou art a
Lyar, Satan, I hope I fhall not, becaufe thou fayeft
I {hall. However, thou ftialt never have it to up-
braid me with again > for tho' I did not pro-
inife to Man, I now promife it to the Z)m/, I
will never play more.
It's too late now, fays he^ and threatned her
again.
N o, Satan^ fays foe, never too late for any one
XQ Repent, but T'loee-^ and thou Ihalt never Repent,
or be Forgiven.
With this, fays my Story, the Devil left hen
I have taken this, by Abridgement, from a very
large Account of the feveral Difputes this coura-
geous Lady had with the Devil for fome Years j,
which if I could affert the Particulars fo as to be
fure of the Truth of every Part, and of my own
Knowledge too, I fhould make farther ufe of here j
but thus far they are to the prefent Occafion,
I. That
of APPARITIONS. ipp
1. That where the Devil appears, he always
does it like a Devilj for feme wicked Purpofe or
other.
2. Where he cannot prevail and excite to do
Mifchief, he aflaults with Rage, and threatens
with fuffering Mifchief.
The good Spirits or good Angels are quite of
another Kind > and as they come, or are fent from
other Hands, fo they come of other Errands and
in another manner, as I fhall give a more parti-
cular Account of prefently.
But let us from hence enquire into an Opinio
on which I have met with, and that of fome Men
of Learning and Judgment, viz. That take the
Apparitions in general, whether of good or bad
Spirits, they never, or very rarely, do any harm.
As for the good Spirits, we know, as above, they
will do none J and if the bad do not, 'tis be-
caufe they can't.
The good Spirits, 'tis certain, will do no
harm j it is by their general appearing for good,
that we determine them to be good Spirits 5 and that
kind of Judgment is certainly very juft: but if
the evil Spirits, which do appear, do no harm
neither, it is becaufe they are under fomc extraor-
dinary reftraint of Divine Power 5 fo that tho' they
may come about in the Air, they are not fufFer'd
to do any confiderable Mifchief in the World. In
both which cafes all the Occafion of our Terror
about them is taken away 5 for whether they are
good Spirits, or evil Spirits reftrain'd, 'tis much
the fame 5 one will do you no hurt, and the other
cannot 5 and there remains no room then for the
Pannick, which is fo much upon us, when we
hear of them.
It is true that Angels have fometimes been
fent in Judgment from Heaven, and have execu-
ted God's terrible Threatnings upon Men in an
O ^ apparent
zoo The Hijiory and Reality
apparent Shape J as the Angel call'd the Deflroy»
ing Angel, which Damd faw in the Air, with his
Sword drawn and flretch'd over Jerufakm to de-
iiroyit, i Chron. xxi. if. So the Angel of the Lord
that flew 180000 of the -.^m«^ in one Night 5
and it is not improbable that an Hoft of Angels
or Apparitions appear'd in the AJfyrian Camp, and
cut in Pieces xhc AJjyrian Army, with a Terror that
they were not able to refift.
These are extraordinary and miraculous Cafes j
fo likewife is that when the Angel appeared to
Balaam with a flaming Sword, and told him that
if the Ais had not turn'd away from him, he (the
Angel) had flain him. Numb. xxii. 33. But we
are not now fpeaking of Angels fent out with
cTpecial Com-miflions to execute God's Vengeance,
but of the Apparition of good Spirits or Angels
from the invifible World of Spirits, who frequent-
ly appear, and fometimes upon fmall and very tri-
fling Occafions, and who vifit People as well by
Night as by Dayj this we call Walking, and Ap-
parition, and this is fuch as is the Subjeft of our
prefent Enquiry.
Of thefe it is that I fay, however they may
difturb us, and however terrified wc are about
them, they very rarely do any harm.
I HAVE heard of an Apparition which came to
a Farmer in Surry^ and threatned him that he
would burn his Houfe and his Barn, and all his
Corn and Hayj what his Pretences were the Story
does not relate, or what the poor Farmer had done
to difoblige him> but the Man was, it feems,
in the utmoil Confternation, and expoftulated
with the Apparition a great while 5 but at laft he
pluck'd up his Spirits, and fpoke with a little more
Courage to it.
What art thou, fays he, that threatneft mc
thus without a c^ufe,, and fayefl thou wilt ruin me,
notwith^
ef APPARITIONS. loi
notwithftanding I never did thee any wrong? thou
ihouldft be the Devil^hy thy ufage of me, for good
Spirits never do any Injuflice.
To' this the Devil anfwcr'd in a long, and to
appearance, a threatning Speech, but in a Language
the poor Man did not underftand one Word of.
I K NO w not what thou fayeft, fays the Farmer^
but I tell thee again thou feem'ft to me to be the
Devil^ or one of his Angels, and I fuppofe thole
are Words underilood in the bottomlefs Pitj but
threaten me no more with thy Rage, and with
burning my Houfe and Cornj thou art a greatDra-
gon indeed, but thou artchain'd, and canft do no-
thing but what thou art permitted to do by thy
Maker, and I fear thee not. Upon which the poor
Man pray'd Mentally that he might be deliver'd
from the Power of the Devilj and away run the
Spe6tre, and did him no harm.
This was certainly a commendable Courage^
and had fomething of the Chriftian in it too j and
fuch a Courage, and upon the like Foundation,
would, for ought I know, lay all the Devils that
ever walk'd, and drive away all the Apparitions
and Spirits that People are fo terribly haunted with,
and fo terrify'd about.
C HAP. XI.
Of Apparitions i^i TJ>ream^ and how far they
are or are not real Apparitions.
THERE may be Dreams without Apparition,
as there may be Apparitions without Dreams j
but Apparition in Dream may be as really an
Apparition as if the Perfon who faw it was awake:
The difference may be here, that the Apparition
in
to h The Hiftory and Reality
in a Dream is vifible to the Soul only, for the
Soul never fleeps •, and an Apparition to the Eye-
fight is vifible in common Perfpcdive.
How is it then that we fee in our Dreams the
very Faces and Drefs of the Perfon we dream of;
nay, hear their Voices, and receive due Impreffions
from what they fay, and oftentimes fpeak to them
with our own Voices articulately and audibly, tho'
we are fail afleep ? What fecret Power of the Imagi-
nation is able to reprefent the Image of any Per-
fon to itfclf, if there was not fome Appearance,
fomeihing placM in the Soul's view, by a fecret,
but invifible Hand, and in an imperceptible man-
ner? which Something is in all Refpe6ts, and to all
Purpofes, as compleatly an Apparition, as if it was
plac'd in open fight when the Perfon was awake.
The Scripture confirms this Opinion by many
Expreflions direftly to the purpofe, and particu-.
larly this of Appearing, or Apparition in Dream.
Gen. XX. 5. God came to Abimelech in a Dream -y
had it been faid that AhimeUch dreamed that God
came to him, there might have been fome excep-
tion to the Parallel 5 but God actually came to him:
and what tho' Ahimelech was afleep, and in a Dream,
it was not the lefs an Apparition, for God came
to him^ and fpoke, and faid to him: and in the 4th
Verfe Ahmelcch (poke to the Apparition. What-
ever the Shape was, that the Text does not men-
tion 3 but Ahimelech knew who he talk'd with too, ^
that's evident, for the Text mentions it fully,
And he faid^ Lord, wilt thou flay alfo a righteous.
Nation? and fo he goes on, Verfe the fifth, to
expoflulate and plead for himfelf and his People,
faid he not unto me^ flje is my Sifter? fo that he
knew he was fpeaking to the Lord. The Text is ,
very remarkable, it is plain that there was an Ap- \
parition, but the Man was afleep and in a Dream. ,
1
A GAIM ^
of APPAR ITIONS. 2QJ
Again in the cafe of Laban purfuing Jacoh^
Gen. xxxi. 24. God came to Laban the Syrian in a
Dream by Nightly and[aid unto him. Here again is an
Apparition, and a fpeaking Apparition too 5 God
came to him, and God fpoke to himj and Laban-
owns, not that he dream'd of God's appearing,
but that God really fpoke to him, v, ip. fhe God
of your Father /pake to me Tefter-night^ Ikying,
Certainly Dreams in thofe Days were ano-
ther kind of thing than they are now. God fpoke
to them, and they anfwer'd 5 and when they were
awake they knew that it was God that fpoke, and
gave heed to the Vifion or Apparition of God to
them.
There are many more Inftances of the like in
the facred Hiftoryj as firfl: in the remarkable cafe
of King Solomon^ i Kings iii. f. "The Lord appeared
to Solomon in a Dream by Nighty and God faid^
ask "what IJhall give thee.
This is call'd in the Scripture a Dream, v^. if.
and S-olomon awoke^ and behold it was a Dream > and
yet it is all confirmed 5 and the Petition that So-
lomon made, tho' in his Sleep, or Dream, is ac-
cepted and anfwer'd as his real A6t and Deed, as
if he had been awake. A good hint, by the way^
that we may both pleafe and offend in our Dreams,
as really as if we were awake 5 but that is a hint,
I fay, by itfelf.
That PafTage of Solomon is very remarkable to
the cafe in hand. If my Readers pleafe to believe
that there was fuch a Man as Solomon^ and that he
had fuch a Dream 5 they muft allow alfo that it
I
was a real Apparition, God appeared to him in a
Dream.
To bring it down a flep lower: as God has thus
Perfonally appeared to Men in Dreams, fo have
inferior Spirits, and we have Examples of this too
in the Scripture. Matt. i. 20. While he thought on
thefe
to
4
The Hifiory and ReaJity
thefe T'hings, hhoU the Angel of the Lord appeared
Unto him in a Dream: and again, Matt. ii. 13.'
Behold the Angel of the Lord appeared unto Jofeph in
a Dream^ fay^%'' ^^^^ ^ third time 'tis repeated, the
Angel came again to him in 'Mgypt^ v. ip. of
the fame Chapter > when Herod \^2& dead. Behold
an Angel of the Lord appeareth in a Dream to Jofeph
'
in iEgypt.
'
I WILL for once fuppofe, that no Man need de-
firc any farther Evidence than thefe for the Reality'
of the thing itfelfj we may bring it down from
hence by juft Parallels to Matters within our own
Reach, Experience will furniih us with particular
Paflages fufficient 5 and fome Account I fball give you
within the CompafsofourownTimesj in which if I
doasmuch aspoffible, as I have done all along, omit
all thofe Accounts which others have publifh'd, re-
fering you to thofe Publications for the particulars,
and only give you new and more modern Accounts,
fuch as come within the Verge of my own Know-
ledge, or of the Knowledge of fuch as I have good
Reafon to give Credit to 5 1 believe the Variety
will be as acceptable, and much more, ufeful than a
bare Repeating of what others have faid. If I find ic
needful to quote what others have publifh'd, you
fhall have it juftly mark'd as a Quotation, that you
may fearch for the Truth in its Original.
But before I come to Quotation, or to Col-
leftion of Story, 'tis needful to obferve here alfo,
that as it has pleas'd God to appear in this Man-
ner, and to caufe Angels to appear alfo in the fame
Manner, and upon fpecial Occafions, fo I make no
Queflion but the Devil often appears in Dreams
too 5 and I might give but too many Examples of
it, as particularly one in the Scripture.
It is apparent that God gave Satan a kind of
general Licenfe to affli6t Joh^ only not to kill him j
with fuch a terrible Commiffion it might be ex-
pelled
of APPARITIONS. 2oy
pe6ted the De'vil would fall upon him with the ut-
mofl Fury he was capable of, or at leaft that he was
allowed to takes he ruin'd his Fortunes, reduced
him to Mifery, murther'd his Children, tormented
him with Boils and Sores j in fhort, left him no-
thing but Potlherds, and an ill Wife to relieve him 5
and as he had worry'd him, to ufe a modern Phrafe,
within an Inch of his Life^ he followed him in the
Night with Apparition, left he fhould recruit Na-
ture with Reft, and be a little refrefh'd with Sleep.
Job himfelf complains of it, Job vii. 14. "Thoufcareji
me with Dreams, andterrifieft me with- V i s i o n s.
Not that God appeared to Job in any frightful or
terrible Form j but the Devil^ to whom God was
pleas'd to give a Liberty of afHifting Job, took that
Liberty, and exerted his Malice to the utmoft in
fuch a Manner. We are not indeed told what
Methods the Devil took to fcare and terrific than
poor diftrefs'd Sufferer 5 but as he can fhow us no-
thiiig uglier, and more frightful than himfelf, Co
it is very likely he appeared to him in Perfon,
and that in the moft furprizing Manner poflible,
wi:h all the Circumftances of Horror that he was
able.
'T IS thought by fome, who critically note that
Part of the Text where jP/7^/^'s Wife warn'd her
Husband to have nothing to do in condemning
Chrift to be crucified, that it was the Devil that
ftirr'd her up to oppofe it. Satan, as Toon as he
perceiv'd that the Death of Chrift, however inten-
ded for Mifchief by the Jews, and purfued violently
by them in their Rage and Malice at our Lord per-
fonally, was yet a thing appointed by the determi-
nate Council of God, for the Salvation of Man*
kind : I fay, as foon as he perceiv'd that Part,
which 'tis probable he did not know before, heftrove
all he could to prevent it> and as fierce as h€ had
been to irritate the Jews before, and raife their
Furv
20
6
Tbe Hifiory and Reality
Fury and Malice up to a Pitch, even to almoft rab*
balling the Governor into itj now he under- hand
ftrove to prevent it, and us'd this Stratagem among
others by attacking Pilate's Wife in the Night, and
fetting her to perfuade her Husband, that he was
going to deliver up an innocent Perfon to gratifie the
Jews J and that he fhould have a care what he did.
Matt, xxvii. ip. IVhen he was fet down on the Judg-
ment-feat^ his Wife fent unto him^ fayi^g-i Have thoit
nothing'to do with that juft Man: For Ihavefuffer*d
many things this Day in a Dream^ becaufe of him.
Whether it was fo or not, 'tis very probable
the many things flie fufFer'd muft be from the
Devihy becaufe Heaven, by whofe determinate
Council and Fore-knowledge the Death of Chrift
was appointed, would have done nothing to have
prevented or interrupted his own Appointment.
Now as the Dreams in thofe Days, and our
Di'eams at this Time, are exceeding different 5 and
that as our Heads are fo full of impertinent
Thoughts in the Day, which in proportion crowd
the Imagination at Night, fo our Dreams are tri*
fling and foolifh : How fhall we do to know when
they are to be taken Notice of, and when not?
When there is a real Apparition haunting us, or
fhowing it felf, to us and when not ? in a word,
when an Angel, or when a Devil, appears to us in a
Dream ?
I T is a nice Queftion, and as it does not parti-
cularly relate to the prefent Enquiry, fo it would
require too long a Digreflion to difcourfe Critically
upon it 5 but 1 fliall difmifs it with this fhort An-
fwer. We muft judge, as I faid before in the Cafe of
open Apparitions, by the Weight, and by the Na-
ture of the MefTage or Errand which the Appari-
©n comes about 5 evil MefTengers fcldom come of
good Errands, and Angels good or bad feldom come
on trifling Meffages*
TRiFtiNO
of APPARITIONS. 207
Trifling Dreams are the Produ6t of the
Mind being engag'd in trifling Matters j a Child
dreams of its Play, a Houfe-wife dreams of her
Kitchen, a Nurfe of the Children, a Tradefman of
his Shop} thefe have nothing of Apparition in
them 5 nothing of Angels or Spirts, God or Devils
but when Dream comes up to Vilion, and the Soul
is embark'd in a fuperior Degree, to a Commerce
above the ordinary Rate, then you may conclude
you have had fome extraordinary Vifitors, that you
have been in fome good or bad Company in the
Night, and you are left to judge of what kind, by
the Subftance or Tenour of the Vifion. If it be to
open the Underftanding, to encreafe Knowledge,
to feal Inflruftion 3 in a word, if it is for dire6tion
to good Anions, or llirring up the Soul of Man to
perform his Duty to God or Man, 'tis certainly
from above 5 'tis an Apparition from God, 'tis a
Vifion of Angels and good Spirits. Job xxxiii. if.
In a Dream^ in a Vifion of the Nighty njohen deep Sleep
j
falleth upon Men^ injlumbrings upon the Bed.
If it be an Allurement to Vice, laying before
you an Opportunity to ileal, prefenting an Obje6fc
of Beauty, an Inticement to commit an unlawful
A6tion ; depend upon it 'tis from the dark Regions,
'tis an Apparition of the Devil^ and he employs his
Agents, and perhaps attends in Perfon to draw you
into Mifchief.
N. B. Here 'tis worth a wife Man's conGder-
ing, whether the Devil reprefenting a Temp-
tation to any Perfon in a Dream, and the Per-
fon complying, he is not guilty of the FaiSl
as really as if he had been awake. I leave ic
only as a Head of Refledion : For Example,
The Devilj fubtle in his Contrivance, as well as
vigilant in Application of Circumftances, knows a
Man to be in perplex'd Circumitances, diilrefs'd for
7 want
io8f The Hifiory and Reality
want of Money, a perifliing Family, a craving Nc*
ceflity } he comes in his Sleep and prefents him
with a little Child drefs'd up with Jewels of a great
Value, and a Purfe of Gold in its Hand, and all
this as happening in a Place perfedly opportune for
the Purpofe, the Nurfe having negligently left the
Child out of her Sight.
A s he prefents the Temptation, he ftands at the
Perfon's Elbow 5 prompts him j fays. Take away that
Chain or String of Pearl, and the Purfe, the Child
is alone, it can tell no Tales, take it quickly > are
not you in Diftrefs, and do you not want it at this
time to an Extremity, and can any one ever difco-
vcr it? the Child's Friends are rich, it will do them
no hurtj if they valu'd fuch things, they would
never have put them about a little Child, it
is no great Matter to them j bcfides 'tis due to their
Vanity and Oflentation, which was the only rea-
fon of dreffing up a little Child in fuch a Manner.
Come, come, take it up quickly, it may fave you
from Ruin, and as foon as you are able, you may
make them Satisfaftion again, and fo difcharge your
Confcience. The Man, unable to refift the Snare,
confencs, ftrips the innocent Child of its Ornaments,
and goes away unfeenj but in a Moment or two
wakes with theSurprife, fees it is a Cheat, and looks
back on it with a double Regret, i. That he is
difappointed of the Prize which he wanted, and
fancy'd himfelf reliev'd by. 2. That the Devil
Triumphs over him, and he is both deluded into
the Crime, and deceived in the Expe6tation of its
Reward.
I COULD give this in the Form of a Relation
of Fad, and give Evidence of the Truth of it> for
I had the Account of it from the Perfon's own
Lips, who was attacked in Sleep, and (as he faid
with a fincere Afflidion) yielded to the Temptation >
and I committed the barbarous Robbery, faid he^
-
witt
of A?? ARITIO N S. 20^
with theutmoftRefentment i I plunder'dand ftrip'd
the poor fmiling Infant, who innocently play'd
with nae when I took ofF its Ornaments, gave me
the Purfe of Gold out of its liitle Pocket, and bid
me keep it for her to play with. I robb'd it, fayi
he^ in my Imagination, and deferve as much to be
hang'd for it, as if I had adtually committed the
horrid Fa6t at Noon-day j Ay, fays he^ with a kind
of Tremor in his Confcience from the Horror of
the Fa6t, I ought to be hang'd for it, and to be
damn'd for it too, for I as really and efFe6tually did
it as if I had been apprehended and carry'd to
Newgate for it.
It is true, it gave him a particular Satisfa6tion,
with refpeftto his Perfonal Safety, that he had noc
committed the Fa6b > but it gave him no lefs Trouble in
his Confcience, than if he had been a6lually guilty.
What was this but an Apparition of the Devil^
a real vifiblc Apparition ! vifible to the Mind, tho'
not to the Body? and that in a double Capacity too 5
the Devil without in the Temptation, and the Devil
within yielding to it. *
I KNOW another living Example (ff this kind,
and I had that Part too from the Perfon himfelf
:
He was a fober religious Gentleman 5 he was in the
letter of it a fingle Man j for tho' he had been unhap-
pily married, he liv'd in a feparate State from his
Wife 5 and, to fay no more of it, upon a juflifiable
Occafion, namely, that his W^ife was wickedly
gone away, as he fuppos'd, with another Man.
Before he was marry'd to the unhappy Wo^*^.
man, he had lov'd a very handfom beautiful Lady,
and had gone fo far as to court her a long time for
Marriage J but fome Difficulty in their Circumilan-
ces prevented their coming together, and he took
another J which the firft Lady relented fo, as that is
coft her too dear, for {he died foon after. |
The Afflidion of this was very heavy to bim,
P after
2io The^HiJiory and Reality
after he found himfelf abus'din bis real Marriage, as
above. I fay after, for at firft it feems it was not.
Under the melancholy Reflexions of thefe contrary
Circumiiances, which frequently loaded his Mind,
He dreams one Night, that his former Miftrefs came
to him with a fmiling Countenance 5 I might have ex-
prefs'd it rather, that his former Millrefs appeared to
him in a Dream^ and with a fmiling chearful Coun-
tenance, told him, that his Run-away Wife was
Dead, and now you -are mine, fays the Apparition.
He receiv'd the News with a particular Satisfa6tion,
and emhrac'd the Lady, as his former Inclioations
di61:ated to him y he had not the leafl Notion, as he
proteiled folemnly, or the leaft Remembrance that
ihe was dead.
When he awak'd, and found it all a Dream,
he was exceedingly afflicted with the Surprifej
looking upon himfelf to be as really Guilty, as if he
had been awake, and the Lady alive 5 and I can-
not but fay he had fome Reafon.
Whether this, if really True, could be any
thing but an Apparition of an evil Spirit j the De-
n)il laying a Snare for him, and prevailing with him
in Dream in a manner, and to commit a Crime, which
he could not prevail with him to be guilty of when
file was alive.
I COULD give an Account of another Perfon,
whom the Devil haunted frequently, and that for
many Years together, with lewd Apparitions j temp-
ting him in his Sleep with the Company of beau-
tiful Women, fometimes naked, fometimes even in
Bed with him 5 and at other times in Converfation
prompting him to Wickednefs, and that fometimes
he was prevail'd upon to confent 5 but always hap-
Eily
prevented by waking in time: But the Cafe
as on two or three Occafions been mentioned by
other Hands, and the Perfon is too much known
to allow the farther Defcription of it, without his
Confent. I
of APPARITIONS. zn:
I CANNOT doubt but thefc things are ftated
formal Apparitions of the Devil-, and tho' the Per-
fo nmay be afleep, and not thoroughly fenfible either
of what he is doing, or of what is doing with him,
yet that the evil Spirit isa«5tualiy prefent with him in
Apparition, I think will not admit of any QuC'-
flion.
The World is too full of Examples of this
kind, to enter into a long Account of the Parti-
culars. There is hardly a Book upon the Subjeft
but is filled up with hiftorical Relations 5 hardly a
Perfon to be convers'd with upon the Subje6t, but
is full of them, either for themfelves or feme of
their Acquaintance 5 and every one is rendering
their Dreams to be confiderable, and all to come
to pafs: But out of five hundred Dreams fo told,
and which fo much Strefs is fcemingly laid on,
'tis hard to find one that we can call a real Ap-
parition in Dream.
The great, and perhaps one of the great-
eft Difficulties of Life, I mean that relates to
Dreams, is to diftinguifh between fuch as are real
Apparitions, and fuch as are only the Produ£t of
an incumber'd Brain, a diftemper'd Head, or which
is worfe, a diftemper'd Mind : But fome Dreams
are fo fignificant, and there follows fuch an imme-
diate vifible EfFe6t anfwering the defign'd Illumi-
nation, that it cannot but be fignificant.
A CERTAIN Gentleman who had lately buried
his Wife, a Lady of great Piety and Virtue, was
fo exceedingly affii6ted at his Lofs, that among o-
ther melancholy things which were the Effe6t of
it, this was one 5 that he was fo far from defiring
to marry again, that he entertained a fettled ri-
veted Avcrfion to the whole Sex, and was never
thoroughly eafie in their Company j and thus |ie
liv'd near two Years,
Pz Aft:er
z 1
2
TToe Hljlory and Reality
A FTER a certain time his Wife appeared to him
in his Dream, or he dream'd that he faw his Wifej
but I rather put it in the firlt Senfe : She came
to him, as he thought, to the Bedfide, with a fmi-
ling and pleafant Countenance, and calling him by
the Term which fhe always gave him, My Dearefi.
H E was in a great Confternation, but could noc
fpeak to jjer J but fhe faid, Do not be afraid of mc,
I will do you no Hurtj and then faid, What is
the Reafon that you mourn thus for me?
He flill faid nothing-, that is to fay, he dream'd
that be faid nothing, but that he fetch'd a deep
Sigh.
Come, come, fays Jhe^ Friends loft are Friends
loft, and cannot be recalled.
Then he fpoke, that is dream'd that he fpoke^
and ask'd her, why fhe appeared to him.
SHEfaid^ to put an End to his unreafonable
Grief.
Ho w can that be ? fays he. You now encreafe my
Grief, by bringing your felf thus to my Remem-
brance.
N o, no, fays fhe^ you muft forget mc, and pray
take another Wife, which will be the way to
caufe you to forget me effe6tually.
No, no, faid he^ that I can never doj and how
can you delire it of mc?
Yes, fays Jhe^ I do defire it of you, and I come
to direct you whom you ftiall have.
He defir'd ftie would talk no more to him 5 for,
fays he^ you cannot be my Wife 5 it muft be
fome evil Spirit come to tempt me in fuch a Shape,
and to deftroy me.
With that {he feem'd to weep, and to pity
him.
He figh'd again, and defir'd that if fhe was able
to retain any AfFe6lion to him in the Condition fhe
was
of APPARITIO N S. 21
was then in, that flie would fhow it by coming no
more to diforder him in that manner.
SHE faid^ Well, 1 will trouble you no more, if
you liften to the Dire6bions I ihall now give you,
and will perform them.
What are they ? fays he.
On the firft Wednefday in OUoher^ fays jhe^ you
will be invited to Dinner to fach a Houle, there
you will fee a Gentlewoman drefs'd in white (in
over-againfl you at the Table 5 fhe fhall be your
Wife, and fhe will be a kind Mother to my Children.
I T feems fhe gave other Particulars of the Gen-
tlewoman's Drefs, and in particular that ihe would
drink to him 3 all which came to pafs accordingly.
After fhe had faid this, fhe difppeared 5 the
Story does not fay fhe went away with a melodious
Sound, or with rich Perfumes, or the like, as is pre-
tended often in fuch like Cafes 5 nor do 1 remem-
ber to have heard that he married the Perfon, tho'
he really faw her at the Feaft.
But the Queftion from all this Story is only
this, 'uiz. Whether, fuppofing the Cafe to be littc-
rally true, was this an Apparition, or was it on-
ly a iimple Dream ? I affirm it muft be an Appari-
tion, that is to fay, a Spirit came to him in the
Perfon of, or perfonating his Wife.
The following Story I had from the Mouth of
the very Perfon who was chiefly concerned in it, I
mean the Captain of the Ship itfelf.
One Captain 7'homas Rogers^ Commander of a
Ship called the Society^ was bound on a Voyage
from London to Virginia about the Year i(5p4.
The Ship was hired in London^ and being fenc
light, as they call it, to Virginia for a Loading of
Tobacco, had not many Goods in her outward bound,
fuppofe about two or three a hundred Ton, which
was not counted a Loading, or indeed half her
P g Load-
The Hijiory and Reality
Loading } the Ship being very large, above five
hundred Ton Burthen.
They had had a pretty good Paflage, and the
Day before had had an Obfervation, whereupon
the Mates and proper Officers had brought their
Books and call up their Reckonings with the Cap-
tain, to fee how near they were to the Coafts of
America j they all agreed that they were at leaft about
an hundred Leagues Diftance from the Capes of Vir^
gm^.Upon thefe cuftomary Reckonings, and with-
all heaving the Lead, and finding no Ground at
an hundred Fathom, they fet the Watch, and the
Captain turn'd in (as they call it at Sea) that is,
went to Bed.
The Weather was good, a moderate Gale of
Wind, and blowing fair for the Coail:, fo that the
Ship might have run about twelve or fifteen Leagues
in the Night after the Captain was in his Cab-
bin.
H E fell afleep, and flept very foundly for about
three Hours, when he waked again, and lay 'till
he heard his fecond Mare turn ouf,^nd relieve the
Watch 5 and then he call'd his chief Mate as he
was going off from the Watch, and ask'd him
how all things far'd j who anfwer'd, that all was
well, and the Gale freflien'd, and they run at a
great Rate 5 but 'twas a fair Wind and a fine clear
Night > fo the Captain went to deep again.
About an Hour after he had been afleep again,
he dream'd that a Man pull'd him or wak'd him,
and he did wake. I am not furc, but I think he
faid the Thing that wak'd him bad him get up,
that is, turn out and look abroad. But whether it
was fo or no, he lay Hill and compos'd himfelf to
flcep, and drop'd again, and fuddenly awak'd again,
and thus feveral times j and tho' he knew nothing
what was' the Reafon, yet he found it was impoffi-
ble for him to go to deep, and ftill he heard the
Vifion
of AFP AR IT IONS. ny
Vifion fay, or thought he heard it fay, turn out and
look abroad.
He lay in this Uneafinefs near two Hours, but
at lad it encreas'd fo upon him, that he could lie
no longer, but gets up, puts on his Watch Gown,
and comes out upon the Quarter-deck 5 there he
found his fecond Mate walking about, and theBoat-
fwainupon the Forecaftle, the Night fine and clear,
a fair Wind, and all well as before.
The Mate wondering to fee him, at firft did
not know him j but caUing, Who's there ? the Cap-
tain anfwer'd, and the Mate returns, Who, the
Captain ! what's the matter. Sir ?
SATS the Captain^ I don't know, but I have
been very uneafie thefe two Hours, and fome body
or my own Fancy bid me turn out and look abroad,
tho' I know not What can be the meaning of it.
There can be nothing in it, but fome Dream,
fays the Mate,
SATS the Captain^ How does the Ship Cape?
South-West by South, fays the Mate-, fair
for the Coaft, and the Wind Eaft by North.
T H A t's all very good, fays the Captain > and
fo, after fome other ufual Queftions, he turn'd about
to go back to his Cabin 5 when, as if it had been
fome body that ftood by him had fpoke, it came
into his Mind like a Voice, Heave the Lead^ heavi
the Lead.
Upon this he turns again to his fecond Mate,
Mate, fays the Captain^ when did you heave the
Lead? what Water had you?
-About an Hour ago, fays the Mate^ fixty Fa-
thom.
Heave again, fays the Captain.
There's no manner of Occafion, Sir, y^ji the
Mate^ but if you pleafe it fhall be done.
I don't know, fays the Captain^ 'tis needlefs in-
deed, I think 5 and fo was going away again,
P 4 but
2
1
6 The Hijiory and Reality
but was, as it were, forc'd to turn back as before,
and fays to the Mate, I know not what ails me,
but I can't be eafie 3 come call a Hand aft, and
heave the Lead.
Accordingly a Hand was called, and the
Lead being call or heaved, as they call it, they
had Ground at eleven Fathom^
This furpriz*d them all, but much more when
at the next Caft it came up feven Fathom.
Upon this the Captain in a Fright bad them
put the Helm a Lee, and about Ship, all Hands being
order'd to back the Sails, as is ufual in fuch Cafes,
The proper Orders being obeyed, the Ship
flay'd preiently and came about j and when fhe was
about, before the Sails fill'd, fhe had but four Fa-
thoms and a half Water under her Stern > as foon as
fhe filled and flood off, they had feven Fathom again,
and at the next Caft eleven Fathom, and fo on to
twenty Fathom i fo he flood off to Seaward all the
reflof the Watch, to get into deep Water, 'till Day-
break J when being a clear Morning, there were
the Capes of Virginia and all the Coaft of America
in fair View under their Stern, and but a very
few Leagues Diilance : Had they flood on but
one Cable's length farther, as they were going,
they had been Bump a-Jhore (fo the Sailors call it)
and had certainly loll their Ship, if not their
Lives.
Now, what could this be? Not the Z)m/, that
we may vouch for him, he would hardly be guil-
ty of doing fo n-juch good > hardly an Angel fent
from Heaven Exprefs, that we dare not prefumej
but that it was the Work of a waking Providence, by
fome invilible Agent employ'd for that Occalion,
who took Sleep from the Captain's Eyes > as once
in a Cafe of infinitely more Importance was done
to King Ahafuerus'^ This we may conclude. Had
the Captain llept as ufual, and as Nature requir'd,
they
of APPARiriONS. P17
they had been all loft 3 the Shore being flat at a
great Diftance, and, as 1 fuppofe, the Tide low, the
5hip had been a-ground in an Inftant, and the Sea,
which run high, would have broke over her, and
foon have dafh'd her in Pieces.
How it happen'd that the Mates and other
Navigators on Board (for it being a very great
Ship, they had feveral experienc'd Men among them)
ihould all of them have kept, and yet all be out in
their Reckoning, and that fo much as to think them*
felves an hundred Leagues from the Coaft, when
they were not above twenty or twenty five, thac
was to be accounted for among themfelvesj but cer-
tain it was, if it had not been for thus being
wak'd and jogg'd in the Night, and kept awake
too in fpite of his own Drowfinefs, the Captain
had lain ftill, and the whole Ship's Company been
in the utmoft Hazard.
I F this was not an Apparition, it muft be what
the Scripture calls it in another Cafe, being warned
of God in a Dream-, which by the way is the fame
thing 5 but here was fomething more than being
warned, for the Captain own'd he was in no Dream.
He dream'd nothing at all, much lefs any thing
of Danger 5 he went to his Bed or Cabbin with
all the prudent Caution that any Man in that im-
portant Trufl: of a Ship in the Ocean could do 5
and then after having made their Calculations, caft up
their Reckonings, fet their Watch, and made every
thing fure, he hid down with all the Satisfa6lion
that it was poffible for any Man in a like Cafe to
have.
To any Men that underftand the Sea Affairs,
this Cafe will be more feelingly and fendbly read j
they will be more touch'd with the Surprize
the Ship's Company muft be all in, to fee them-
felves juft running a-ground, when they believed
thcrpfclves an hundred Leagues from the Shore, to
, £nd
% 1
8
The Hiftory and Reality
find themfelves within two Inches of Death, when
they believ'd themfelves as fafe as a Ship at Sea
with a moderate Gale and a fair Wind could be
fuppofed to be.
And how will thofe modern Wits, of which our
Age is fo full, account for this, who allow no God
or Providence, no invifible World, no Angelkk,
kind and waking Spirits, who, by a fecret Corre-
fpondence with our embodied Spirits, give merci-
ful Hints to us of approaching Mifchiefs and im-
pending Dangers, and that timely, fo as to put the
Means into our Hands to avoid and efcape them ?
Which way will fuch Men folve the main
Difficulty in fuch a Cafe as this, viz. What this
fhould be? Will they refolve it all into fortuitous
Chance, meer Accident, ameer Circulation of things
in the ordinary Courfe? As they fay Shoals are railed
to bar up a Haven, which they tell us, is nothing but
the Sand and Stones driven down the Stream of a Ri-
ver, which lodge here or there, as their own Weight,
or the abating Force of the Water, or this or that
Eddy and Counter-ltream checks them, fo deep'ning
one Channel where it was Shoal, and choaking up
another where it was deep, and all by meer Acci-
dent: But this is very grofs arguing.
I T were eafie to confute thefe weak pretences
to Chance and Incident, and to {how the neceffity
of an intelligent Being j but that is not my work :
I am not upon the Reality of fuch an intelHgcnt Be-
ing, but the Reality of its ordinary and extraordina-
ry a6lings, the Agents it employs, and the manner
of their executing the Commiflions they receive;
which 'tis evident they faithfully perform, and
effedually too 5 fometimes by one method, fome-
times by another, and particularly by this of Ap-
parition, as well to the Eyes of the Soul, as to the
Eye of the Body, deeping or waking 'tis the
fame.
Our
of APPARITION S. 119
Our Friends the Criticks may flumble here,
perhaps5at the feeming contradifbion in the Terms,
as particularly this of invifible Apparition. Buc
'tis eafily folv'd, by anfwering that it is but a feem-
ing Contradidion, for both the Apparitions are vi-
fible, only not to the fame Optick Powers 5 the Ap-
parition in Dream is vifible to the intelle6lual fight,
to the Eye of the Soulj and the Day-light Appari-
tion is vifible to the common ordinary fight : and
you have an Expreflion in the Scriptute often made
ufe of, which gives an unqueftion'd Authority for
this way of fpeaking.
The expreffing things drcam'd of, as things
feen, is very frequent in the Sacred Text. Jacob
dream'd a Dream about Lahan's Cattle, Gen. xxxi.
10. where 'tis thus expreifed, and I faw in a>
Dream. Again Daniel, vii. i, 2. Daniel had a Dream
and Vifions of his Head upon his Bed, v. 2.
and I faw in my Vifion hy Night : v. 7. after this I
faw in the Night Vifions^ and behold a fourth Beaft :
and V. i^. Ifaw in the Night Vifiom^and behold -^ and
befides this, we have the fame way of fpeaking ten
or eleven times in the fame Chapter, and as many
or more times in the next.
'T I s the like in relating the Dreams of Pharaoh
and of Nebuchadnezzar^ or the Apparitions rather
which appear'd to thofe Kings in Dream. Pharaoh
fays to Jofephj Gen. xli. 17, 18, 19. In my Dream
Iflood upon the Bank of the River^ and Behold
there came up-y that is the fame thing as, 1 faw them
come up: v. ip. and Behold feven other Kine
came up^ or I faw feven other Kine come up. So ^
that an Apparition in Dream is vifible to the Soul,
the Imagination fees, tho' the Eyes of the Body arc
clos'd.
This Dlgreffion is owing to the nice Judgment
of our Criticks, whofe exa6tnefs you fee I mightily
reverence, and am wonderful careful not to fall un-
'
der
2 20 The Hijiory and Reality
der their dreadful Hands, in a thing fo eflential to
my Subjed 5 as for Trifles, I leave them to trifle with
them to the utmofl: oftheir more maliciouslmpotence.
But I come now to another Relation of Fa6t,
which alfo I take upon me to vouch the Reality of,
having been prefenc at the very inftanc of every
part of it.
A Person, whofe Name it is not fo proper to
mention here, but who may be produc'd if there
fliould be occaflon, being ftill living, was under the
difafter, about the Year 1701, to fall under a Party
Cenfure, (the occaflon is needlefs to the prefenc
Cafe.) In hopes, upon the Recefs of the Houfc, which
was not far ofl^, he fliould (as is ufual)be at Liberty,
he withdrew himfelf, and avoided being taken up as
much as he could j but the Houfe refendng it, a
Vote was pafl:, ordering the Secretary of State to
profecute him at Law j which oblig'd him to refolve
to leave the Kingdom, and in the mean time to
conceal himfelf with more exaftnefs j the Govern-
ment having ifliied out a Proclamation for appre-
hending him, with a Reward to the Perfon who
fliould difcover where he was, fo as he might be
taken.
I N order to conceal himfelf more efFe6bually, he
left his Lodging where he had been hid for fome
time, and removed to Barnet on the Edge of Hert-
fordjhire 5 intending, as foon as he had fettled fome
Family Affairs, to go away North into Scotland :
But before he went away he was oblig'd to come
once more to London^ to fign fome Writings for
the fecuring fome Eftate, which it was fear'd might
be feiz'd by Out-law, i^ the Profecution had gone
on fo far.
The Night before he had appointed to come to
London^ as above,being in Bed with one Mr. i?
D" he dream'd that he was in his Lodgings at
Londouy where he had been conceard as above, and
in
of A?F ARiriONS. 2ZI
in his Dream he faw two Men come to the Door,
who faid they vjtxtMeJfengers^ and produc'd a War-
rant from the Secretary of State to apprehend him,
and that accordingly they feiz'd upon and took
him.
The Vifion furpriz'd and wak'd him, and he
waked Mr. D his Brother-in-law, who was in
Bed with him, and told him the Dream, and what
a Surprize he was in about it. Mr. D feeing
it was but a Dream, advis'd him to give no heed to
it, but compofe himfelf and go to fleep again, and
he did fo.
As foon as he was faftafleep again, he was wak'd
again with the fame Dream exaftly as before j and
he awak'd his Brother again, as before : It difturb'd
them both very much 5 but being heavy to fleep,
they both went to fleep again,and dream'd no more.
It is to be obferv'd, that he faw the very Men that
apprehended him, their Countenances, Cloaths,
Weapons, i^c. and defcrib'd them in the Morning
to his faid Brother D in all the Particulars.
However the Call to go to London being as
he thought urgent, he got ready in the Morping
to go, refolving to flay but one Day, and then fee
forward for Scotland. Accordingly he went for Lon-
don in the Morning, and that he might not be
known, walk'd it on Foot> that fo he might goby
more private ways over Enfield Chafe^ and fo to
Southgatey Hornfey^ 6cc.
All the way as he walk'd his Mind was heavy,
and opprefs'dj and he frequently faid 10 his Bro-
ther who walk'd with him, that he was certain
he was going to London to be farpriz'd : and fo
flrong was the foreboding Impreffionupon his Mind,
that he once ftop'd at Hornfey^ and endeavoured to
get a Lodging, intending to fend his Brother to
London to fee if nothing had happen'd there to give
him any Alarm.
As
tt% The Hifiory and
As he had juft fccured a convenient Lodging,
he accidentally law a Gentleman Handing at the
next Door, who he knew very well, bu^ durft not
venture to truft on that Occaiion j and finding on
Enquiry that he dwelt there, he concluded that
was no Place for him, and fo relblv'd to go for-
wards.
The Impreflion upon his Mind continuing, he
llop'd again at IJlington^ and endeavour'd to get a
Lodging there > bur could not : fo at lad, when his
Brother brought him word he could not gtz a
Lodging, except where it was too publick. Well,
fays he, than I mufl go to London^ and take what
follows 5 or to that purpofcj and accordingly
did go, and the next Morning was taken by
the MefTengers, juft in the very manner as he had
been told in his Dream j and the very fame two
Men, whofe Faces he had fecn, and with the
fame Cloaths on and Weapons, exaftly as he had
defcrib'd.
This Story I had from his own Mouth, and
confirmed by Mr. R D his Brother-in-law,
to whom he related his Vifion at the very Moment
of it, as above.
I R E F E R it to any impartial Judgment to
weigh every Circumftance of this Account (the
Truth of which 1 have not the leaft Reafonto que-
ftion) and to tell me, by what Powers, and from
what Influence could thefe things be performed, if
there were no invifible World, and no Inhabitants
there, who concern'd themfelves with our Affairs?
no good Spirits which convcrs*d with our embo-
died Spirits, and gave us due intelligence, notice,
and warning of approaching Danger.
If there is any Difficulty in this Cafe, it feems
to me to be in the Event of the thing, as in the
Cafe mentioned : Why was not the Intelligence
made fo compleat, fo forcible, and the Imprellion
fo
of A? F ARITION S. 223
fo plain, that the Perfon in whofe Favour it was all
done might have been efFcflually alarm'd, his go-
ing forward llopr, and confequently the Mifchicr
which was at hand, and which he had the notice
of, efFe6tually prevented ?
It is not indeed fo eafy to anfwer that part j
but it may be refolv'd into this, that the Fault feems
to be our own, that we do not give due attention
to fuch notice, as might be fufficient to our Delive-
rance. If an Enemy be at hand, and the Out-Cen-
tinel fires his Piece, he does his Duty 5 if the whole
Camp does not take the Alarm, but are furpriz'd,
the fault is their own, the Man did all that was to
be expefted from him j nor do the Officers or Ge-
nerals flight the notice, and fay 'tis nothing but a
fbrry Fellow fhot off his Mufquet, and {q take no
more heed to it.
O N the contrary, they conclude the Centinel \s
polled upon Duty} he would not fire his Piece
without a fufficient Caufe, and give a falfe alarm to
the Camp for nothings there muft be fomething
extraordinary, and accordingly they order the
Drums to beat, and immediately call to Arms.
Thus if the invifible Spirits give a due alarm,
they do their part} if they jog us and awaken us in
a deep fleep, and pull us again and again, and give
us notice that fomething is coming, that fome Dan-
ger is at the Door 5 if we will fleep on 'till it
comes, if we will go on5happen what happen may,
the kind Spirit has done its Duty, difcharg'd its
Office, and if we fall into the Mifchief, the fault
is our own, we can by no means blame the infuffi-
ciency of the Notice, and fay, to what purpofe h
it? feeing we had due and timely warning, but
would not take the hint 3 we had due notice of the
danger, and would not Itep out of the way to avoid
it} the fault is wholly our own.
A N 0-
zz4 7^^ Hijlory and Reality
Another Account I had a fufficient Voucher
for, the' the Gentleman is now dead j but I had
great reafon to believe the truth of it.
A YOUNG Gentleman of good Birth and For-
tune, in the beginning of the late War vj'iih France^^
had a violent inclination to fee the World, as he
caird it, and reiblv'd to go into the Army 5 his Fa-
ther was dead, and had left him a good Eftate;
that is to fay, between four and five hundred Pounds
a Year 3 befides his Mother's Joynture, which after
her Life would fall to him of courfe.
His Mother earneflly entreated him not to go
into the Army > but preft him rather to tra-
vel,and fo might fee the World, as {he faid, without
feeling the Calamities of the War, and without
hazarding his Life.
H E told her Travelling indeed in time of Peace
was all a Gentleman could do, and was at belt
very expenfivej but that now was the time a Man
might fee the World at the expence of the Pub-
lick, and perhaps might make his Fortune too.
His Mother reprefented the danger of his Life,
and bad him confider how many Gentlemen went
into the Army, and of them, have few liv'd to come
home again, much lefs to rife to any degree of Pre-
ferment.
He made light of all that, and told his Mother
(as is the general Saying of warm Heads when they
puih their Fortunes, as they call it,) that if he hap-
pened to be knock'd on the Head there was an End
of him, and he was provided for.
Well, Son, fays the old Lady, I am oblig'd to
fubmit to it, you are your own Mafter ; but re-
member your Mother's Tears, (and with thofe
Words fhe wept j) I can but entreat you not to go,
you have Eftate enough to make you eafy j let thofe
go whofe narrow Circumftances make the hazard
lutional, and let them go abroad to die, that
can't
of APPARITIONS. zif
can't tell how to live $ you can pay thofe that do
gb J you have no need to run the Rifque, ^ho do
not want the Pay.
He flighted all her entreaties, and told her, if
his Father was alive he did not doubt but he would
give his Confent, for he had done the fame thing
in his young Days.
No, no, Son, faidhis Mother, your Father knev^
better^ he took a Commifiion when he was the
youngeft of three Sons, and had nothing to expe6fc
at home but the fate of a younger Brother j but as
foon as he heard that his Elder Brothers were both
dead, and the Eftate all come to himj he laid down
his Arms, fold his Commiflion, and faid he had no
more Bufinefs in the Army 5 and he would tell you
the fame thing if he was alive : he ufed always to
fay, that the Sword and the Book are the Portions
of younger Brothers, the Coach and the Equipage
is for the Heir.
Well, 'twas all one 5 whatever his Mother's
Arguments could do, or even fpeaking Tears cou'd
fay, nothing could prevail j but he mortgaged pare
of his Eftate to purchafe a Company in the firft
Regiment of Guards^ and into the Army he would
go.
The Night before he fign'd the Agreement for
the Company, being in his Bed and faft afleep, he
faw in a Dream his Father come to him in his
GoWn, and with a great Fur Cap on,fuch as he us^d
to wear : And calling him by his Name, What is
the Reafon, fays he, that you will not liften to the
entreaties of your Mother not to go to the Wars^^
butanfwerher that I Would not dilTuade you? I
do aflure you, that if you refolve to take this Com-
miflion you will not enjoy it three Years.
V/ hy, fays he (in his Dream) what will hinder
me? being it feems dcfirous to knqw fomeching of
his Fortune.
ti6 The Htfior^ and Reality
Ask me not the Particulars, fays the Apparition^
but either decline the Employ, or when you have
enjoy'd it two Years and a half, fell out again, as I
did before you.
I can't promife ihzT^fays he.
Then you may promife your felf, fays the Jp'
parition^ that it Ihall be worfe.
He feem'd to flight the Admonition, and faid^
it was too late to look back.
Too late ! too late ! fays the Apparition^re^eax'mg
the Wordsj then go on, and repent too late.
He was not much affecled with this Apparition,
when he wak'd and found it was but a Dream 3 for
Dreams, faid he, are not to be heeded 5 fo he went
on and bought the Commiflion.
A F EW Days after the Commiffion was bought,
the Father appeared again, not to him but to his
Mother, in a Dream too as before 5 and taking notice
to her, how his Son had rejeded her Admonition, it
added,
'' Young Heads are wilful : Robert will go in*
'^ to the Army 5 but tell him from me, he fhall
'* never come back.
All thefe Notices were of no force with this
young Gentleman j but as he had refolv'd, fo he
purfued his Refolution, and went into the Army 5
and two Battallions of that Regiment going into
the Field that Summer, his Company was one, and
fo he went abroad into Flanders..
He wanted no occafion to fhowhis Bravery, and
in feveral warm A6tions come off with applaufe ^
fo that he was far from being fufpe6ted of Cowardife :
But one Day, and in the third Year of his Service,
the Army was drawn out in order of Battel, the
General having receiv'd certain Advice, that the E-
nemy would come and attack them. As he flood at
the Head of his Company, he was fuddenly feiz'd
with a cold fhivering FiCj and it was fo violent
that
of APPARITIONS. %%y
that fome Officers who were near him, eyery one
at their Pod, perceiv'd it.
A s it was to no purpofe for him to conceal it,
he turn'd to his Lieutenant who flood next to him,
and irom whofe Mouth I recciv'd the particular
Account of it : f cannot imagine, fays be^ what is
the occafion of this fhaking Fit.
I T is your eagernefs to fall on, fays the Lieute-^
nant^ I have often been fo, and begin to be fo now j
I widi the French would come on, that we might
have fomething to do.
It continued about a quarter of an Hour, and
the Enemy did come on as was expedled j but the
fight began upon the left, a good diftance from
them, fo that the whole left Wing was engag'd
before they began.
While this lafted, the Lieutenant call'd to the
Gentleman, Colonel, fay^ he^ how do you do ? I
hope your fhivering Fit is over.
N o, fays the Colonel^ 'tis not over 5 but 'tis a lit-^
tie better.
I T will be all over prefently, fays the Lieutenant,
A Y, fo 'twill, fays the Colonel^ I am very eafy, I
know what 'twas now 5 and with that he call'd thd
Lieutenant to come to him for one Moment.
When he came,y^jy5 he^ I know now what ail'd
me, I am 'very eafy^ I havefeen my Father 5 1 lliallbe
kiird the firft Volley 3 let my Mother know I told
you this.
I N a few Minutes after this, a Body of the E-
nemy advanc'd, and the very firft Volley the Regi^
ment receiv'd was the^fire of five Plottoons of Gre-
nadiers, by which the Captain and fevcral other
Officers, befides private Men were kill'd, and the
whole Brigade was foon after put into Confufion 5
tho' being fupported by fome Regiments of the fe-
cond Line, they rallied again foon after 3 the Cap-
tain's Body was prefently recover'dj but he was
Q^i irrecoverably
it 28 The Hifiory and Reality
irrecoverably Dead, for he receiv'd a Shot in hi$
Face which kill'd him immediately.
If all the Notices from the invifible World
could have been of any Ufe to him, or he had been
to be wrought upon by Cautions and Advices, which
nothing but a moil obflinate Temper would have
fo totally difregarded, the Man had been fafej But
what can be expe6bed when Men are as plainly
inform'd of things, as by fuch Methods can be fup-
pos'd rational, and will not take the Hint ?
LUCIUS FLORUS records of Julius Cajar^
that a Woman of a Mafculine Countenance, and of
a mighty Stature, appeared to him in a Dream, and
beckon'd to him to follow her j that upon his fol-
lowing her, (he went over the River Rubicon^ and
Hood on the farther Bank, beckoning to him to come
over> upon which the next Day he boldly cnter'd
Italy^ pafling the Rubicon^ which was the Boundary of
Jtaly on that Side.
I KNOW fome relate this as an Apparition to
C^far in the open Day, but I underltand it o-
therwifc, and that it was underftood of the Genius
of Italy^ as they then call'd it, and that he had fuch
a Vifion in his Sleep, which cncourag'd him in his
Attempt upon the Liberty of his Country j inti-
mating, that the whole Country invited him, and
that he might be fure of Succcfs.
I SHALL not run out here into the Account of
Dreams J ihe Variety of them is Infinite, and, as I
hinted before, few of them of Importance enough
to deferve any Regard 5 but fuch Dreams as necef-
farily intimate an Apparition of Spirits, thofe I
?think muft be Significant.
The following is part Vifion, part Apparition,
and feems to make One be an Evidence of the O-
ther, and therefore is very particularly to my Pur-
pofe. 7"—H—a Gentleman of Fortune, eldefl
Son of the Family, his Father a Baronet, and. of an
honourable;
of APPARITIONS. zi
honourable Line, and then living, being a young
Man, and a Man of Pleafure, had an Intreague with
a certain Lady, in which his younger brother (of
the two rather more Gay, and given that way
than himfelf) was his Rival: The Lady was hand-
fome, and of no defpicable Fortune, but much in-
feriour to the eldefl Son of the Family, whofe For-
tune was near two thoufand Pound per Annum^ af-
ter his Father Sir G H .
The younger Gentleman was really in Love
with the Lady, and inclin'd to marry her, if he could
bring his Father to confent to it, and had two or
three times fpokcn to the old Knight about it- nor
was his Father much averfe to it, only he thought
her Fortune too fmall.
Sir G told his Son, if he had been his
Eldeft, he fhould have been eafier in the Propofal,
becaufe his Paternal Eftate being Free, and perfeft-
ly unincumber'd, he thought the Heir was not
under that Neceffity of making his Fortune by a
Wife 5 but that a younger Brother ought always to
feek a Fortune to mend his Circumftances. He us'd
to jeft with his Son, and tell him, it was this made
him connive at his way of Life j that a younger
Brother fhould be Handfom, be a Scholar, Drefi,
and be Gay; the firft to recommend him to the
Court, the fecond to recommend him to the La-
dies 5 that the Heir having no need, was often
left to be a Booby Knight, juft able to write his
own Name, Halloo to his own Dogs, and ride the
light Saddle j but as he had feldom any Share of
Brains, Nature wifely gave the Wit to one, and
the Eftate to the other; fo, fays the Knight,yourBro-
ther has his Affairs in a quite different Situation.
These good-natur'd kind of Arguments the
old Knight us'd with his younger Son, to perfuadc
him againft marrying the Ladyj but he did not ab-
folutely forbid him on pain of his Difpleafurc, and
Q5 ef
^20 The Hijiory and Reality
of withdrawing his Hand from him, with refpe6t
to Money, fo that the young Gentleman kept the
Lady Company openly 3 and though he had not
yet made the Propofal to her, yet did really defign
it J I mean the honourable Propofal, ('uiz.) of
Marriage.
O N the other hand, the Efquire, as they call'd
him, kept her Company, on another and far worfe
Account, defigning to make a Miitrefs of her, and
not a Wife.
Upon thefe differing Views, the Brothers often
met at the Lady's Houfe, that is to fay, at her
Aunt's where fhe liv'dj for fhe had no Father, and
her Mother had chang'd Circumftanccs, fo that her
Paughter was as it were in her own Hands.
The elder Brother had this Advantage in his
Intereft, (viz) that the Lady lov*d him, and would
have been very well pleas'd if he had courted her
for Marriage, but that was not his Defign > fo that
in a word, the Cafe Hood thus, the younger Bro^
ther lov'd the Lady, but the Lady lov'd the Efqj.
The elder Brother laid Siege to her Virtue, and
the younger laid Siege to her AfFe6tion j but, as I
faid, the Stream running in Favour of the eldeft,
the Lady was in fome Danger of facrifizing her
Honour to her Paffion, and the honeft Pretcnfions
of the young Gentleman were in fome Hazard of a
Mi fearri age.
T H E Gentlemen carry'd on their Affairs fepa-
rately, and their own way 5 but were neither of
them fo clofe as to conceal it from one another
that they had fome Defigns, tho' they did not fully
difcover what their Pretcnfions were> however as I
have faid that they often met at the Lady's Apartment,
it could not be long before they came to a Con-
verfation upon the Subjedb, and this unhappily em-
broil'd them together ac laft, as you Ihall fee pre-
fently.
The
of AP PARITIO NS. i3i
The eldefl Brother began one Evening to be a
little rough with his Brother upon the Subje6t>
"Jaek^ fays the Eldeft^ you and I often meet here, I
don't underftand ir, pray what do you pretend to ?
'tis a little odd that two Brothers fliould have but one
Miflrefs j pr'ythee, Jack^ don't let us turn Italians.
Nay, fays Jack^ what do you pretend to ? If
either of us is in the Wrong, I believe 'tis always
on your Side.
No, fays i' I don't allow that neither, I am
right I am fure of itj I am always right, and I
will be right, pray take Notice of that.
I TAKE Notice of nothing about ir, not 1^ fays
Jack', all the World knows that I am right, and
they ihall know it, and you lliall know it too,
^om
Well, Pr'ythee Jack^ fays 'Tom, alter one
Piece of your Conduct, I defire that of you.
What Condu6i: ? I don't underftand you > but
if I did, I know no Condu6l of mine that is amifs,
and I fhall alter none of it, I afTure you.
Why, this it is, that when 1 meet you here,
which I think is a little too often, fays the Efquire^ X
obferve you always ftrive to ftay after me, and to.
have me go away firft ; I tell you, 1 don't like it.
I SHALL alter nothing about that, I aflure you,,
fays Jack. I think I have fome Bufinefs here more
than you have J and as for your meeting me here
too often, I thinly fo too, I think you do come a^
little too often, unlefs you came with an honefter
Defign.
You are very Pert, Mr. Jack^ to your elder Bro-
ther; I think I muft handle you a \\x.i\q^ fays Tom,
Why, good Mr. elder Brother 'EfquireThomas^
faysjack^ when you are Baronet, you may take upon
you a little 5 but 'till then, the Cap and the Knee
is not fo much your due, as you may think it is.
Look yoxxjack^faysthe Efquire^ I am not jefting
with you, nor 1 won't be jefted with by you > the belt
QL.4 Anfwer
*f,^% The Hifiory and Reality
Anfwcr a Gentleman gives toa Jeft, is a Box on the
Ear 5 or la coup de Batton,
Why, Sir<ifays Jackal muft call my felfa Gentleman
as well as you, or elfe I could not have the Honour
to call you Brother : And fince you are difpos'd to.
be in Earneft, I take leave to tell you Sir, I will be
us'd like a Gentleman, and if you don't know how
to do it, I am able to teach you.
They were now both very hot> for upon the
lad Words of his Brother, the Efquire laid hold of .
his Cane, at which the younger laid hold of his
Sword. Look you Sir, fays he, if you are difpos'd
to treat your Brother thus, take Notice Sir, my
Father's Son may be kill'd, but he can't be can'd,
and I won't take the lead OfFer towards it at your
Hand; 1 am ready for you when you pleafe.
Some Company that were not far off, and
Friends to both, ran in upon this, and kept them
afunder for that time > but they foon met again ac
the fame Places and tho' it was two or three Days
or more, yet they foon began the fame kind of
Difcourlej and which was Hill worfe, the elder
Brother, who was certainly in the Wrong, yet
always began the Difcourfe.
It happen'd they met the lafl: time at the La-
dy's Lodgings, and were let into her Parlour, but
the Lady was very unhappily abroad 5 fhc had
charg'd her Maid, if ever the Gentlemen came
when flie was abroad, fhe fhould never let them
both in, or at leaft not both into the fame Roonij
for ihe had perceiv'd they began to be very uncafie
one wich another 5 flic knew they were both
hot and angry,, and fhe was afraid of fome Mif-
chief between them, notvvithftanding they were
Brothers.
But fome of her Aunt's Servants happening to
come to the Door, when the eldell of the Gen-
tlemen knock'd, they carry'd hi^n into the fame
Parlour
of AP PARI f IONS. 233
Parlour where the younger Brother was waiting be*
fore for the Lady's Return.
This Vv^as as unluckily pointed for what fol-
low'd, as if the Devil^ who is always ready for
Mifchief, had contriv'd it on Purpofej for the
Brothers were no fooncr met, but they fell to quar-
relling.
Well, Jack^ fays the elder Brother^ you will
it feems keep your Haunt here, notwithflanding
what I faid to you.
I DO not really underfland what you mean by
your way of talking, fays Jack 5 you feem to take
a Liberty with me, you have no right to.
What Liberty do I tzkt'^ fays the Efquire. I
ask'd you what Bufinels you had here with Mrs.
—
was that taking too much Liberty ? and I ask you
again, is that an Offence ?
A N D I told you, fays Jack^ I fhould give you
no Account of my felf, did not I? was that an Of-
fence to you? If it was, I fee no help for it, I fhall
give you the fame Anfwer now : I cannot imagine
what you mean by asking me fuch a Queilion.
I KNOW what I mean by it, and I {hall expefl:
a better Anfwer, I tell it you in a few Words, fays
the Efquire,
Nay, if you have a Mind to make a Quarrel of
it you are welcome, fays Jack^ I'll make as few
Words as you pleafej Only let me know your
Pleafure, tell me what you would have, and you
^all have a dire6t Anfwer, or a dired: Refufal ac
once.
Why, my Qiieftion is fhortj/^jyi the Efquire^ What
do youvifit Mrs. -for? you may eafily under-
iland me.
I SHALL anfwer it with the fame Qiieilion,
fays Jack'y Pray what do you vifit her for?
Why, that*s as rude as you can anfwer an elder
Brother, 7%f the Efquire^ and asfpitcfuh but few
Words
5
4 The Hiliory and Reality
Words are beft, Jack^ I vide her for that which be^irs
no Rivals •, I hope you underftand me now.
Well, and I do the Hime, fays Jack-, but there
is one Queftion between us then, that carries mat-
ter of Right with it, and that is, who vifited her
firft?
Why that's true, Jack^ fays the Efquire^ in
fome Gales, but not in Love -y l-'riority is no Claim
there, I fhall not trouble my felf about it.
Then I'm fure, fays Jack^ being an elder Bro-
ther is no Claims ifo I fhall take no Notice of
that.
No, no, fays theEfquire^ I don't expeftit j there
are no Relatives in whoring, Jack. I know no Bro-
ther, or Father, Uncle or Coufin, when I talk of
my Miftrefs.
Very well, fays Jack^ now you have anfwer'd
me more particularly than ic may be you intended^
and perhaps we may come to an Underftanding
fooner than I expc6ted.
What do you mean, fays the Efquire^ by an
Underftanding?
Nay, what can I meaiv? I mean, that you give
me to underftand, that you court Mrs. to
make a Whore of her.
Better Language, Jack^ however, fays the
Efqtiire: a Miftrefs, you would fay?
Not ly fays Jack^ 'twill bear no better Language ;
a Whore's a Whore, you know, call ic what you
will, 'tis the fame thing to me.
W ELL, and fuppofe it then, what Bufinefs have
you with it ?
W H y, fuppofe then that I Court the fame Lady
for a Wife, 1 hope I have the better of you there?
N o T at all Jack^ fays the Efquire^ I {han't allow
you ihould make a Wife of my Miftrefs.
Nor I can't allow, fays Jack^ that you ihall
make a Whore of my Wife,
Bui
of APPARITIO NS. 23J
B u T I fliall make no Scruple of it I afTure you,
fays the Efquire^ if fhe is willing, for all you are my
Brother, I fhall do it if I can.
And I won't flatter you, that let her be willing
or not willing, if you really do it, fays Jack^ I Ihall
make no Scruple to cut your Throat for it if I can,
for all you are my Brother.
Very well, fack^ fays the Efquire^ then I know
what I have to truft to.
It's very true, fays Jack^ 'tis the old Road of
Knight Errantry Sir, win her and wear her, is the
Word.
And what muft be done then? fays the Efquire.
Nay, fays Jack^ I need not tell you what to
do 5 I tell you ftie's my Wife, I think that's enough
to tell you what you ought to do.
And 1 tell you, fays the Efquire^ {he's my Miilrefs,
that's enough to tell you, you are a Cuckold, or
fhall befo, I think that's fair,to tell you before-hand.
A N D I ih'mk^ fays JacK that's telling me ! muft cut
your Throat before-hand too \ for I will neither be a
Cuckold, or be call'd fo by you, or any Man alive.
N. B. At this the younger Brother rofe up in a
violent Rage, and went away> and the elder
Brother, as hot as he, told him as he went out,
he did well to leave him in Poffeffion.
This urg'd him yet more, and he turn'd back,
and faid, I hope you will have the Manners to fol-
low me?
No, Jack^ fays the Ef
quire^ and fwore to him,
you fhan't fight for my Miftrefs, and my Eftate
too 5 I'll take care firft you fhall get nothing by me.
With all my Heart, fays Jack^ we give a
Rogue time at the Gallows to fay his Prayers, you
know.
I SHALL correal: you for your Impudence, Sir,
to-morrow Morning, without fail, fays the Efquire,
Must
27 6 TToe Hijiory af^d Reality
Must I wait upon your*Worfhip fo \ong'^ fays
Jack^ and added fomething very bitter, as if his
Brother was too much a Coward to go on with
it. But it appeared otherwife, for that very Even-
ing he receiv'd a Challenge from the Efquire, ap-
pointing Time and Place to meet the next Day by
Five in the Morning.
These two ralh hot-headed young Fellows
were carried into this Fit of Rage by the Violence
rather of their fiery Spirits and Paffions, than of
their real Jealoufy, for they had fcarce either of
them begun to engage with the Lady one way or
another j but being hot and heady, they raifed the
Storm between themfelves, and the Match and the
Tinder meeting, the Flame broke out by the mecr
Nature of the thing.
But my Bufinefs is not to moralize upon the
Story, but to relate the Fa6t. The Challenge being
given, they had no more to do but to meet, fight,
play the Butcher upon one another, and leave the
Confequences to Time.
The Father, the good old Knight, who was
then living, could know nothing of what had pafs'd
between his Sons, for he was at that very time
down at his Country Seat in IV—^Jhire^ at lealt
fixty Miles from London.
On the Morrow early, according to Agreement,
the Brothers prepared themfelves for the Bufinefs,
and out they went, but by feveral Ways, to the
Place appointed, their Lodgings being in different
Parts of the Town.
The younger Brother, whofe Blood it feems
was warmcft, was firft out, and it was fcarce Day-
light when he came within Sight of the Place ap-
pointed 5 there lie faw his Brother, as he fuppofed
him to be, walking haflily to and fro, as if he
\^j\ited with ImpatiCTiCe for his coming.
'Nay^
J't7/7. ^'^7. S^ji^'^urAt .r,u<^^^
of APPARITIONS. '%i7
Nay, fays he to himfeJf^ I am fure I am within
the Time 5 however, don't be impatient. Bro-
ther foMy I'll be with you prefenclyj and with
that he mended his Pace. He had not gone ma-
ny Steps more, but he faw his Brother (as he ftill
thought him to be) coming forward, as if it was
to meet him, and with his Sword drawn in his
Hand.
You are mighty nimble with your Sword (faid
he again to himfelfj what, did you think I would
not give you time to draw? But how was he fur-
prized when he came up to him, and found it was
not his Brother but his Father, and that inftead of
a Sword in his Hand he had nothing but a fmall lit-
tle Cane, fuch as the old Knight generally walk'd
with
!
He was the more at a Hand, becaufe he fuppos'd
his Father was, as is laid above, at his Seat in the
Country, above fixty Miles oiF: However he was
out of doubt when he not only faw him nearer
hand, but that his Father fpoke to him ?
Why how now Jack^ fays the old Gentleman^
What, ^ challenge and draw upon your Father.
^ When he thought he faw his Brother with his
Sword in his Hand^ he had laid his Hand on his
Sword,
You may be fure, Sir,y^^; he^ I did not fuppofc
it was you. I don't doubt you know whom I ex-
pe6l:ed here 5 'tis a poor cowardly Shift for him
firft to challenge his Brother, and then fend you
in his Head j you would not have done fo yuur
felf, when you was a young Man.
'Tis no time to talk now, Jack^ fays his Father^
I have your Challenge here, and I am come to fight
you, not to talk to you 5 therefore draw, fays h&^
you know there's no Relation in Love> and with
that his Father draws his Sword, and advances upon
him.
Dra.w!
138 The Hijlory and Reality
Draw \fays Jack: what, and upon my Father!
Heaven's forbid! no, I'll be murcher'd firll.
But his Father advancing again, and with a
furious Countenance, as if hev^ould indeed kill him,
Jack pulls out his Sword and Scabbard, and throw-
ing it on the Ground, ciy'd out. There Sir, take
it, kill me with it 5 for God's fake, what do you
mean ?
But his Father as it were running upon him,
Jacks turns from him, and giving a fpring out of
his Power, fcems refolv'd to run from him 5 at
which his Father ftoops, takes up his Sword, and
flood (till.
The young Gentleman, furpris'd and amaz'd at
the Rencounter, was all in Terror and Confufion,
and knew not what to doj but going back a con-
fiderable V/ay, and obfcrving that his Father was
gone, as he thought, he refolved, tho' he had no
Sword, he would go the Place appointed., and fee
if his Brother was come 5 for he fhould not be able
to fay he did not meet him, however he was thus
flrangely difarm'd.
Accordingly he went back to the Place,
and fat him down upon the Ground, waiting near
two Hours there, but heard nothing of his Bro-
ther 5 but as he came away again at the End of
the two Hours, he found his Sword lying juft in
the Place where it was thrown down, or as near
the Place as he could imagine, tho' he was fure it
was not there when he went the fecond time by
the Place.
This amus'd him more, and he knew not what
to make of it 5 but he took up the Sword and
went home, wondring at what the meaning of all
this (hould be.
H E had not been long at home, but his Bro-
ther's Servant comes to his Lodging with a very
civil MefTage from the Efquire, to know how he
did^
of APPARITIONS. 13P
did 5 and the Servant was bid to ask him from his
Brother, if he had not met with fomething extra-
ordinary that Morning, and to tell him that he,
(his Brother) was very ill, or he would ha' come to
fee him.
The Oddnefs of the MefTage added to the Sur-
prife he was in before 5 upon which, he call'd the
MefTenger up Stairs, and parlied with him a little
thus :
J, What's the matter, Will? how does my
Brother do ?
Will. M Y Mafter gives his Service to your Wor- _
fhip, and fcnt me to know how you do.
J, Indeed Fm out of order a little 5 but how
is your Mafter ? what's the matter ?
JVill Why truly, and't pleafe your Worfliip,
I don't know what's the matter-, 1 think my Ma-
fter has been frighted this Morning,
J. Frighted, Will! with what, pry'thee?
your Mafter is not eafily frighted.
Will. Why no, an't pleafe you, I know he is
not ; but this has been fomething extraordinary j I
don't know how 'tis, for I was not with my Mafter,
but they talk in the Houfe, that he has feen his
Father, or feen an Apparition in the Shape of his
Father.
-
y. Why fo have I too, Will-^ now you fright
me indeed, for I made light of it before > why, it
was my Father to be fure.
Will. N o Sir, alas your Father ! why, my old
Mafter was at in W—fljire^ and very ill in
his Bed but a Friday laft j I came from him, my
Mafter fent me to him on an Errand.
y. A N D did you fee him your feif, Will ?
M^ill- I F your Worftiip pleafe ro give me my Oath,
rU take my Oath I faw him and fpoke with him
in his Bed, and very ill he was 5 I hope your Wor-
fhip will believe I know my old Mafter ^
7 7. Yes,
2.^0 The Hijiory and Reality
y. Yes, yes, you know him, no doubt, ^ilL
I think you liv'd four Years with him, didn't you?
^ill. I drefs'd him, and undrefs'd him five Years
and a half, an't pkafe you. I think I may fay I know
him in his Cloaths, or out of 'em.
J. Well, William^ and I hope you will allow
that I may know my own Father too, or him I
ha' call'd Father thefe thirty Years ?
IVill. Y E s to be fure, an't pleafe you.
J, Well then, tell my Brother, it was either
my Father or the Devil-y I both faw him, and fpokc
with him, and I'm frighted out of my Wits*
Away went fFill with this MefTage back to
his Mafter, and his Mafter immediately goes again
with iVill to fee his Brother.
A s foon as he came into the Room to his Bro-
ther, he runs to him and kiflcs him 5 Dear Jack^
fays be. What has been the matter with us to-day ?
we have both play'd the Fool, but forgive me my
Part, and tell me what has happen'd.
JACK receiv'd him with all the Paffions and
Tendernefs imaginable, and they fell immediately
to comparing things with one another. ^/7/hadtold
jhis Brother in general how it was, as the younger
Brother had order'd him 5 that he had feen his Fa-
ther and fpoke to him 5 and now he told him all the
Particulars himfelf, as I have related them above,
and how he came at him with fuch Fury, that he
really thought he would have run him thro' the
Body, and that he run away.
The Squire related his Story much to the fame
purpofc. How that as he was coming to the Place
appointed, his Father met him, and ask'd him whi-
ther he was going j that he put him off with a
flight Anfwer, and told him, he was going to Ken-
fington to meet fome Gentlemen there, who were
to go with him to Hampton-Court,
That
0f APPARITIONS. Z4I
That upon this, his Father turn'd very angry;,
and I obferv'd, [aid he^ his Face look'd as red as
Fire; he ilamp'd with his Foot, as he us'd to do
when he was provok'd, and told me I put hirn
off with a Sham ; that he knew my Errand as well
as I did my felf; that I was going to murther
my younger Brother, and that he v/as come to
fatisfy my Fury with his Blood, and I fhould
murther him, not my Brother.
I was To confounded, faid the Efquire^ I could not
fpeak to him a good while ; but recovering my
felf a little, and going to excufe my felf, he grew
more angry -, when 1 faid my Pretenfions were as
honed to Mrs. as yours were, he gave me the
Lye, and indeed, Jackj I deferv'd it; tho' I could
not imagine he knew : but he rold me in (hort,
that I lyed, for that I courted her to debauch her,
but that you courted her honourably, to marry her,
and he had given his Confent to it.
I WAS confounded, then begg'd his Pardon; fo
he bad me go Home and be reconciled to my Bro-
ther, or that he would talk other Language to me
the next time he faw me; and now, dear Jack^ fays
the Efquire^ I am come to ask your Pardon, not only
in Obedience to my Father, bur, really on my own
Account, for 1 am convinced I was in the wrong
to you very much.
You may be fure the Brothers were immediate-
ly as good Friends as ever they were in their Lives.
But (till Jack was uneafy about this being the real
Appearance of his Father; and his Brother's Man
PVilliam's Words run in his Mind all that Night ;
for as to this firil Meeting, it was fo taken up with
the Ecflafies of their Reconciliation, that they had
no time for any thing elfc.
But the next Morning the young Gentleman
went to fee his Brother, to return his Vifit, an4
talk things over again.
R Dear
24^ ^^ /^//?f?ry and Reality
Dear Brother, fays Jack^ I am very uneafy a-*
bout one Part of our Story ftill j I am glad frorn
rny Soul that you and I are brought to uncjerfland
one another, and I hope it fhall never be other-
wife 5 but I cannot be thoroughly fatisfy'd about
who it was that was the Peace-maker j if what
your Man Will fays be true, it cou'd never be my
Father.
Nay, fays his Brother^ JVill told me that yoti
faid it was my Father, or the Devil,
Why yes I did fay fo, fays Jack^ but that was
to intimate my Certainty of its not being my Father j
not that I fuppos'd it was the Devil. But, pray,
bow long has my Father been in Town?
Nay, fays the Efquire^ I did not know that he
is in Town, but that 1 faw him I know w^ell enough.
But did not you fend IVill down to him, fays
Jack^ into the Country ? and is it poffible he could
come up fince that, in fo little time ?
Y E s, yes, he might come up, fays the Efquire y
he often drives it in a Day and a piece, fometimes
in a Day^ iix Horfes go at a great rate, yoii
know.
But pray what think you of it yourfelf? you
faw bim as well as I. Was it really my Father?
Your Man Will talks that 'twas impojfliblej befides
he fays my Father was very ill, and kept his Bed.
WILL does fay he was much out of Order,
but he did not fay he kept his Bed > but I confefs
I never enter'd into that Difpute in my Thoughts :
^Twas my Father fure ! What elfe could it be?
As you faid, Brother, it muft be my Father or
the Devil.
Nay, I don't know what to fay neither. Bro-
ther, fays Jackj as to its being the Devil. I believe
the Devil and my Father have no manner of Cor-
refpondence»
B E S I D E S5
of APPARITIONS. 143
Besides, Brother, fays the Efquire^ how fhoyld
the Devil owe you and 1 fo much Good-will, as
to concern himfelf to reconcile Us? I believe he
had much rather have feen us murther one another,
as we were in a fair way to have done.
I RATHER believe, fays Jack^ he had a Hand
in making us Quarrel.
A Y indeed, fo do I, fays the Efquire ; I think,
for my Part, I was mad > and, as folks commonly
fay, the Devil was in me, or I Ihould never have
been fuch a Fool.
Well, but Brother, fays the young Gentleman^
how fhall we come at the bottom of this Matter?
we both think it was my Father, and we both
think it can hardly be him neither, and we both
think it was not the Devil.
A Y, and, fays the Efquire^ if it fliould not be
my Father nor the i)fi;/7 neither, what fhall we
fay then?
Why that, indeed, makes me fo impatient to
have it out : now Til tell you one thing which
allarms me a little tooj I have fent to Mr. 's
where you know my Father always lodges, and
to the Black'Swan-Tard^ where you know his
Coach ftands, and they all fay he is not in Town,
and that he is to be in Town about fix Weeks
hence.
Why that's extraordinary too, I confefs, fays
the Efquire*^ I never thought of it, becaufe I ne^
ver entertain'd any Jealoufy of this kind, it was
quite out of my Head 5 but, upon my Word, you
make me very uneafy about it now.
For my part, fays his younger Brother^ I would
give any thing to come to a Certainty about it, I
cou'd almoft take my Horfe, and go down on pur=»
pofe.
I'll go with you, with all my Hearty fays the
Efquire,
R A Ta
244 '^^^ Hijiory and Reality
To bring the Matter to a conclufion, the two
Brothers agreed, and they went both away to fee
their Father. The very Day they took Horfe to
go down, but Tome Hours after they were gone,
a Letter came in to the elder Brother's Houfe from
their Father 5 the Contents of which I lliall take
Notice of prefently.
And firft I am to obfcrve that when they came
to their Father they found him at home, and ve-
ry ill, nor had he been from home> and was great-
ly concerned for the Safety of his Sons, upon the
following Occafion.
The Night before he wrote the Letter, fpoken
of above, he was furpriz'd in his Sleep with a
Dream, or rather a Vifion, that his two Sons had
fallen out about a Mi(lrefs> that they had Quar-
reird to that degree, that they had challeng'd one
another, and were gone out into the Fields to
£ght5 but that fome body had giv^en him Notice
of it, and that he had got up in the Morning by
four a Clock to meet and prevent them.
Upon this Dream he awak'd in great Diforder
and Terror 5 however finding it but a Dream he
had composed his Mind, and gotten to flcep again:
but that he dream'd it again in fo lively a man-
ner, that he was forc'd to call up his Man that
waited on him to fit up the reft of the Night
%virh him 5 and he was frighted, and much out of
order with the Fright.
That, in Confequence of this Dream, hehadfent
a Servant up Exprefs, with Orders to ride Night
and Day, to enquire how his Sons did, and to
bring him word if there had been any fuch breach
among them j and earneftly to prefs them, if fuch
a breach had been, that they would confent to let
|iim mediate between them, that it might go no
farther 'till he could come up, that fo he might
put £in end to their Refentments, and make Peace
"
amons
of APPARITIONS.
among them, according to his Dreams : and this
was the Letter, mention'd above, that came to
Hand in a few Hours after they were fet out.
,
It cannot be doubted but it was very con-
founding to his Sons to hear the Account their
Father gave them of his Dream, or Vifion rather,
about their Quarrel 5 and it was equally amazing
to fee it confirm'd by all the true Particulars > alfo
that the old Gentleman, to be fure, had been fo/ar
from being at London^ that he had fcarce been a
whole Day off from his Bed*
They conferred together feriouily upon th6
private Queftion, (viz.) whether they fhould
tell their Father the Story of their Quarrel,
but efpecially of their feeing him feverally, and
his really parting them, or preventing their fight-
inff.
Upon the whole, they concluded not to lee
their Father know of his Likenefs (as theycall'd it)
appearing to them, left it might difquiet him too
much 5 and for the reft, as they were perfe6];ly re*
concil'd again, they faid there was no manner of
Occafion to mention it at all 3 fo they only paid
their Compliment as a Vide of Duty, to fee hoW
he did, and to ask his Bleflingj fVill having told
them that he was out of Order : and as for his
Letter, they could happily tell him they had not
(qqxi it.
According to this Refolution they p.el*-
form'd the Ceremony of Viftting their Father, and
made hafte away again, that they might converfd
the more freely about this ftrange Conjunction of
Circumftances, which had in it fo many things
furprizing to their Thoughts, and even to their Un^
derftandings 5 for they knew not what to tnake of*
it, nor, indeed, could they refolve it into any thrtig
but this, which is to my purpofe exa61:ij5 ^^nd
which is the reafon of my mentioning the -^i^hole
R t -"StorT^-
14^ "The Hifior^ and Reality
Stofy, namely, that here was a double Apparition
within the compafs of our propos'd Syftem.
I. Here was the Apparition of the living Per-
fon of their Father, Without his participation in
the Adion j his Face, Voice, and, perhaps. Habit
was aflum'd, and yet he himfelf knew nothing of
the Matter, was not in the leaft concerned in it^
or acquainted with it.
1. Here was an Apparition to the Father in
Dream 5 'twas a plain Vifion, the thing that was
true inFaft was reveal'd to him in his Sleep, which
is the very Subjeft I am now fpeaking of. The
Sons were reprefented, or appeared to him, Quar-
relling, and in a ftate of Feud, as they really were,
and yet neither of them knew any thing of the
Matter.
From hence (fuppofing the Reality of the Story)
it neceflarily follows that a Spirit or invifible Be-
ing, let it be call'd what we pieafe^ may take upon
it the Shape, Face, Voice of any living Perfon,
whom it pleafes to reprefent, without the Knowledge,
Confent, or Concurrence of the Perfon fo repre-
fented, in any manner whatfoever.
And from hence alfo it is evident that Dreams
^re fometimes to be call'd, and really are. Appariti-
ons, as much as thofe other vifible Apparitions which
are feen when we are (as we call it) broad awake j
that Apparition is to the Eyes of the Soul, and as it
is fo, it may be fcen as well fleeping as waking,
for the Imagination fleeps not : the Soul ceafes in-*
deed to aft organically, but it ceafes not to aft
as a Soul, and in a fpirituous Manner, and confe-
qtiently can aft upon fpirituous Obj efts 1 and that as
well in Sleep as at any other time.
I COULD load this Account with Story^ for
Example is frequent in thefe Cafes, and I am
forc'd to leave out fomc which are very good5
ssnd would be entertaining, becaufe they are too
of APPA R IT 16 NS. %4rf_
tedious for the Work 5 befides, I am not preten-
ding to write ^ Colleftion of old Stories, if I did
I fhould call it a Hiftory of all the Chimney-Cor-
hers in the three Kingdoms. However, I muff
not leave you barren of Examples neither in Ca-
fes fo pregnant 5 take one more which my Author
aflures me was never in Print.
A CERTAIN Lady of good Figure and fome
Quality, had a terrible Quarrel with her Husband
tipon the great and critical Points of Virtue and
Honour} he was a Gentleman of publick Bufinefsj
and pafs*d for a Man of Senfej but had that par-
ticular Infii-mity, which with me will always pafs
for a deficiency in the Underftandingj I mean to
be jealous of his Wife, and yet to be able to £lk
nothing upon her, no not fo much asajuft bloc
upon her Conversation.
'Tis very hard for a Man to be Fool enougH
to difquiet himfelf on fuch art Account, and
hot be Knave enough to make it uneafy to his
Wife too J I fay Knave, becaufe where there is no
jufl: caufe of Reproach, he cannot be an honeft
Man that loads his Wife with the Scandal of it.
He had thought fit to ufe her very ill upon
this Subjefl: many times, with no manner of Foun^
dation, nay, indeed, ndt fo much as a pretence for
it, except what was to be fetch'd from his own
bewildred Imagination > and he gave himfelf up fc>
much to his Jealoufy, without grounds, that hi^
Wife was oblig'd to lay her Condition before
fome of her Rdations, who took upon them to
talk with him about it.
This talking with him had a worfe Effect thaii
Was expe6ted, for the Man was fo far from being-
influenced by the friendly Expoftulations of his
Wife's Kindred, that he grcvv rude and abufive to'
them 5 and if any one of thetii fpoke a little war-
mer than ordinary in her favourj he turn'd it pre-
R 4
The Hijiory and Reality
fently upon that Peifon, as if he had been the Man,
and had been naught with her 5 and yet when one of
them challeng'd him to give any one Inftance of
his Wife's Condua, or of any Perfon's afTociating
with her in a manner as fhouM give an honeft
JVlan the leaft grounds of fufpicion, he could not
affign the lead Reafonj but as is moft true in or-
dinary, that thofe who are the moft Jealous have
oftentimes the leaft Caufe for ir, fo it was here 5
yet notwithftanding all the Expoftulations that
were, or could be ufed with him, the cooleft Rea-
fonings and moft friendly Perfuafions, he continued
to ufe his Wife fo ill, that her Friends began to
think it neceflary to part them.
The Lady, a Woman of Piety as well as Vir-
tue, tho' griev'd heartily with the ill Ufage, and
particularly as it reproached her Virtue, yet was
loath to unhinge her Family and feparate from her
Husband, having alfo two Children which ftie
could not pare with, her Affcdion not fuffering
her to leave them to want the Care and Condu6t
of a Mother; fo Ihe chofe rather to bear his daily-
ill Ufage of her, than to leave her Family.
But he carried the Bruitifh Part fo far at
length, that not content to ufe her in the moft
fcandalous manner with his Tongue, he fell upon
her with his Hands, and two or three times/ in
his Rage, abus'd her very much: fhe conceal'd
this part (for his fake) as much as ftie could, and
endcavour'd to prevent its being known.
But he took care to expofe himfelf in it up-
on many Occafions, and particularly by affronting
a Gentleman of his own Acquaintance, and fome
Relation to him too: the Cafe was thus; He fell
to charging his V/ife with diflionefty in his or-
dinary Difcourfe, and before Strangers 3 upon which
the Gentleman faid, Fye, Coufin, really I believe
you. wrong, her, at leaft you ihould be very fure
you
of AP PARiriONS. 14P
you were in the right before you talk'd fo 5 your
Lady has a general Charader of an honeft, modeit
and virtuous Woman ; and I am told flic is a very
pious and religious Perfon alfo.
A T this he flew out in a Paflion, and faid, D
—
her, he was fatisfy'd fhe was a Whore.
But, Coufin, fays the Gentleman, then I fup-
pofe you know the Perfon too, and could prove
the Fad!
He believ'd he did, he faid.
Nay, you ought to be very fure of it, Coufin,
iays he, before you charge your Wife fo pbfi-
tively.
H E anfwer'd, without any manner of Refpefl: to
his Coufin, I believe you are the Man 5 and adds,
I take it for granted.
What Sufpicion, fays the Gentleman^ did I ever
give you of it? I was never in your Wife's Com-
pany in my Life, but when you were prefent.
'Tis no matter for that, fays he^ if you were
not guilty, why fliould you concern yourfelf to
vindicate her?
The Gentleman, tho' greatly provok'd, kept his
Temper ftill, and i'mil'd at him 5 Coufin, y^jj he^
I doubt you have no better Argument to prove
your Wife's Guilt than you have mine, and if you
han't, fhe's as innocent as a fucking Child.
His Smiling provok'd him, and he gave the
Gentleman the Lie, and added fome very fcurrilous
Language to it, fuch as might be expeded from
a Mad-man, a Man cut of himfelfj not by Luna-
cy, as a Diilempcr, but by that worfe Frenzy,
eall'd groundlefs Jealoufy.
As giving the Lie is the laft Injury one Man
can do to another with his Tongue, it fo provok'd
his Coufin, that fcorning to draw his Sword up-
on him, he correded him heartily for it with his
Cancjas he deferv'd 5 and he againjlike a true Coward,
(when
ijfd ^<^ Hiflory and Reality
(when they were gone) reveng'd himfelf upon his
Wife 5 for he abus'd her again in a bruitifh and bar-
barous Manner: nor did it pacify him at all that he
vented his Rage thus upon his Wife at that timei
but he continued it upon every Occafion of his being
harrafs'd with his own Jealoufy : and when-ever he
abus'd his Wife after that time, he upbraided her
with this Gentleman, and with her ftill keeping hini
Company 5 tho', as it appear'd afterwards, the Gen-
tleman was not in England^ nor had been for feve-
ral Months;
I T happened one time in particular, that coming
home, not at all in Drink, but very much out of
Humour, and, as it feem'd, provok'd, tho' it could
not be fo much as guefs'd at,what the Reafon was,
he pick'd a Quarrel with his Wife, and without any
other Provocation than what was to be found in his
own want of Temper, fell foul of her in a moft un-
merciful manners and had not Help been fetch'd in
*twas fear'd he would have murther'd her. In a
Word, Neighbours coming in to her refcue, faved
her from farther Mifchiefj yet before them all he
bad her go out of the Houfe, and forbid her com-
ing any more within his Doors.
The Lady could not now avoid what fhe had
fo long been perfuaded to before j fo taking fome
Cloaths, and her own Jewels, which fhe brought to
him, {he withdrew the fame Evening to her own
Brother's Houfej taking fufBcient Witnefs of the
occafion of it.
But to bring this Story nearer to the Cafe in
Hand : The Gentleman whom he had thus ill us'd,
had (on fome occafions of his own) been oblig'd a-
bout five Months before this lafl Broil to go over
to Germany^ and as he went from England by Sea
and landed at Hamburgh^ he travell'd from Ham^
hurgh up to Magdeburgbj and from thence to Leip^
jtck in Sa?con^.
of APPARiriO N S. 2JI
A s he was fitting alone in a Summer-Houfe as
we call it, or Gardtn-Houfe^ as they more properly
call it there, belonging to a Burgher of Leipjick^
and reading a Book to divert himfelf, being in the
heat of the Day, and a little after Dinner > he dropc
afleep, and drcam*d that a Lady was come frora
England to fpeak with him, and was in the Houfe
Waiting for him.
Upon this Dream, and being not very found
afleep, only leaning his Head on his Hand as he
was reading, he wak'd j and as foon as he wak'd
he darted up, and intended tb go into the Houfe
to fee who it fliould be, when immediately he fees
a Lady in an Engliflo drefs coming up the Garden
towards the Summer-Houfe.
He did not know her at firft 5 but when flie
came nearer fhe fpoke to him j he calling her by
her Namej would have faluted her ; but {he feem'd
to decline it, and ftepping back, faid. You and I,
Sir, have been fufficiently abus'd upon that Head
already 5 and I come to you for Juftice. I am ill
Us'd, and in danger of being murther'd every Day
by my cruel Husband on your Account, and am ac
laft turn'd out of Doors.
Alas ! fays he^ Madam, he is a Brutifh Man^
and I am very forry 5 but what can I do for you ?
You know my Innocence, fays fie^ as far as re-
lates to yourfelf5 do me juftice, I ask no more : and
that moment ihe difappear'd.
He was extremely furpriz'd, as he might well
be indeed 5 and the more, becaufe he had not the
leaft notion of its being an Apparition, no more
had the Burgher's Servant who let her in at the
Door, and waited on her up the Garden to the
Summer*Houfe.
He went immediately back into the Houfe, and
enquir'd who let the Lady into the Houfe 5 and
the Servant that had uilier'd her up the Walk in
tie'
212 The Hijlory and Reality
the Garden told him he did j and alfo that he had
that Minute let her out again j but looking out
into the Street, nothing of her could be feen again,
or did he ever fee or hear any more of her in that
manner.
While this pafs'd, the Lady liv'd a very me-
lancholly retired Life in her Brother's Family, feeing
no Company, and fpending her time in a moft un-
comfortable Solitude 5 efpecially grieved for the Re-
proach fo caufelefly rais'd upon her Chara6ter, and
having nothing to comfort her but the knowledge
of her own Innocence ^ that which we call the
Comfort ofagoodConfcience: which,as the World
goes now, I mufl be cautious how I lay too much
llrefs upon, or moralize too much upon, left I
fhould be call'd Religious and Grave, which is as
much as to fay Mad.
This Separation continu'd fome time j all en-
deavours to bring it to a Reconciliation had been
try'd, but prov'd ineffc6i:ual 5 the Husband continu-
ing infolently abufive to his Wife 5 and his Wife
(Things being ciirry'd to fuch a height) infifting
upon a Reparation of the Injury ofFerM to her Re-
putation, by having either the Fa6i:s prov'd, or a
due Caufe of Sufpicion affigned. Between both, a
Reconciliation feem'd impra6]:icable, and Friends on
both fides having done their utraoft, began to give
it over.
But, to the agreeable furprize of all that wifli'd
well to the Family, the Husband comes one Morn-
ing to his Wife's Brother all alone, and ask'd to
fpeak with his Wife.
Her Brother was a litttle doubtful at firft
what Anfwer to give him ; and particularly was
afraid to bring his Sifter forth to him, not knowing
what the Devil and an exafperated Temper might
prompt him to 5 and he perceiving it, faid, with a
quite differing Tone from what he us'd to talk with,
You
of APPARITIONS. zyj
You need not be afraid. Brother, to let me fee' my
Wife, tho' indeed 1 have given you all Caufe e-
nough to be uneafy *, but I afTure you I will fooii
fatisfy you that I do not come to do her any harm,
but jult the contrary : I come to put an end to all
this wicked Breach, and that in a manner as fhall
be to your Satisfa61:ion, and hers too j and I am very
willing you fhall be prefent when I fpeak to her,
for I defire you fhould hear what I have to fay.
He fpoke it with fuch an apparent Alteration in
his Temper, that it was eafy to fee that he was
quite another Man, and that there was no hazard in
letting him fee her: fo he went and acquainted his
Wife with what had pafs'd j who tho' ihe was a
little afraid at firft, yet upon her Brother's perfua-
fions came down, and her Brother led her into the
Room to him, in his Hand.
A s foon as he faw his Wife, he run to her, and
took her in his Arms and kifs'd her, holding her
fait y but was not able to fpeak a word for feme
time. At lad getting a little vent of his Paffion,
My Dear, fays he^ I have wrong'd and abiis'd you 5
and I come to acknowledge it in as publick a man-
ner as poffible I can. I come to ask, you Pardon for
it, and am ready to declare my full faiisfaition of
your Innocence, in as open a manner as ever the
Devil and my own ungovern'd PaHion inflam'd me
againil you. Make your own Demands u'hat Satis-
fa6tion I fhall make you, and what Security 1 fhall
give you, that you {hall have no more fuch Treat- -
ment, I am ready to comply with them 5 and go
home with me, if you dare trull me. The Moment
I break my Promife to you in the leail Circura'-
ftance, you fliall freely remove again without the
lead hindrance,or the leaft Contradiction from me
:
in the mean time depend upon it, you fhall never have
any occafion of uneafinefs given you, and as long
gs I live I will acknowledge, when ever you defire
^r^ The Hijiory and Reality
it, that I did you wrong, and that you gave me no
juft occafion for what has pafs'd.
He fpoke this with fo much AfFedion, and even
with Tears in his Eyes, that he forc'd Tears not
from his Wife only, but from her Brother too, and
another Relation of hers that was in the Room
with them. In a word,the Reconciliation was made
in a few Minutes -, for he not only comply'd with
^ny thing his Wife or her Brother defir'd, but even
more than they ask'd > and when they proposed that,
to prevent Miftakes afterwards, he would confenc
they ihould put into Writing what they defir'd,
and what he had faid to her. He call'd for a Pen
and Ink, and drew it out himfelf in the fulleft
Terms imaginable, to the fame purpofe as has been
related, and fuller indeed than they could defire,
and fethis Hand to it, defiring the Brother and the
other Relation to be WitnefFes ofit, and then gave
it to his Wife.
Upon this his Wife with a glad Heart went
home that very Night along with him, her Bro-
ther and the other Relation being invited to go
alfo, which they did 5 where he entertain'd them
very kindly at Supper, which finifh'd the Recon-?
ciliation, and they liv'd very comfortably together
ever after.
But now for the Reafon and Occafion of all
this J and whence this ftrange Alteration proceeded
:
To this purpofe, you are to underftand that one
Evening this Gentleman being either in his Cham-
ber, or fome other Room in his Houfe, (the Story
is not particular in that part) he fees his Coufin,
who had differ'd with him about his Wife, come
into the Room, and fays to him, Coufin, I am very
forry to hear you have continu'd to ufe your Wife
ill, and at laft have turn'd her away upon my Ac-
count. I come on purpofe to admoniili you to re-
pent of the Injury you have done her, for flie is In»;
no cent,
7
of APP ARITIO NS. 25J
tiocent, and you know' you have injur'd herj as
for the Wrong you do mc, I am out of your reach
:
But fetch yoiir Wife home, and reconcile your
ielf to her, or I fhall vifit you again much lefs to
your Satisfa&ion than I do now.
H E gave him no time for a Reply, but imme-
diately difappear'd. It may be eafily guefs'd what a
Confternation he was left in, when he found it was
an Apparition. He concluded his Coufin was dead,
bec^ufe he faid he was out of his reach 5 and he
concluded that this was his Ghoft, or his difquieted
iSoul, and he dreaded the threatning of his Returq;
He endeavoured to wear it off of his Mind, but ic
would not do 5 the Impreffion to be fure would be
ftrengthned by his own Guilt, and both together
brought him to himfelf.
For this is to be obferv'd in all fuch things, viz.
That it is not the Fright or the Surprize that works
on the Mind, but the Convi&ion j [and therefore
tho' this is one of thofe Relations which I do not
take upon me to aflert the faft of from my own
knowledge, yet fuppofing it to be true, the Moral
is the fame, and on that Account I relate it, viz.
That there may be an Apparition of a Perfon
living 5 and yet the Perfon living, and fo feeming
to appear, not know any thing of it, or be any
way concerned in it 5 and fo in this Story now told,
it is imply'd, that the Lady here was living when
ihe appear'd to the Gentleman in Germany^ and that
the Gentleman in Germany was living when he ap-
pear'd to his Coufin in London^ whatever manner they
appear'd in 5 and yet it feems that neither of them
knew any thing of the matter, and doubtlefs had
no concern atoall in it.
I H A V E not been able to dive ib far into this
Story, as to fay, that they were ever enquired of
afterward, whether they were acquainted with the
Circumftances or no 5 but I am indifferent as to that
Point,
z^6 "The Hljlory and Re^iUiy
Point, it is out of Queftion with me, that they
ixiight not be any way concern'd in the thing ic
felf, and yet that it might be really an Apparition
of the Perfons, their Faces, Voices, Cloaths, and
all the needful Apparatus fit for the Deiufion.
There are many Inftances of like kind
with this, and I have a very particular Relation by
me of a Perfon who in Apparition told a Friend of
his, of the Fire of London^ two Months before ic
happen'd, mention'd the manner of the Conflcigra-
tion, how it would begin in the Heart of the City,
and would burn Eaft and Well;, and lay the City
level with the Ground 5 to ufe the very words.
H E happen'd not to tell the Place exaftly where
it was to have been done 5 if he had, he might have
been afterwards brought into Trouble, by the un-
advifed relating the Particulars j for his Friend be-
lieved he really fawhim > and not that it was an Ap-
parition : But it feems he made a long Religious
Excurfion upon the difmal Condition of the Citi-
zens, and how their Pride would be brought low 5
how their Glory would be laid in the Duftj and
how it was all to be look'd upon as a Blow upon
them for their Luxury, and for their publick Sins 5
and fo feem'd to preach pretty [much : And you
know if Spirits from the other World were to
preach, fome People have fuch an Averfion to that
dull heavy Bufincfsjas they call it, that they would
give very little heed to it. I fay, the Apparition
feem'd to preach pretty much upon the Subje6i:,and
fo the Friend began to be weary of the Difcourle,
and put him off to fomething elfe.
That which feems Parttcularin this Story, and
which (had I room here) would takeoup fome time
to Difcourfe upon at large, is, that the Apparition
went off in Form, not difcovering it felf fo much
as to be an Apparition y but came in at the Door,
was. let in by a Servant in the ufual manner, after
knocking
of APPARITIONS. 2J7
knocking at the Door, and was carry'd into the
Parlor among the Family; that it difcours'd of
other Matters alfo 5 as of the Dutch War, and the
bloody Engagement at Sea : I do not remember
exa6tly, whether it faid a bloody Engagement had
been, or would be ; but 1 think it was Engage-
ment that had lately been.
That there were feveral other Tranfitions m
their Difcourfe, from one Article of publick Buli-
ne{s to another; and at la ft to that of the Fire of
London : The Gentleman who it was difcours'd to
feem*d not to be much concern'd at the Prediction
about the Fire, looking upon it as a piece of guefs-
work, and that his Friend fpoke it as of a thing
which he fear'd, rather than as a thing he foretold,
and pretended to know of : But after the Terrible
Conflagration had happened, and that the City was
indeed laid low from the Eaft to the Weft, as
had been mentioned, then all the Particulars came
into his Mind with fome weight, and fome unufual
reflection ; for the Circumftances were too evident
to be flightly thought of
However it pafs'd over in the ordinary way,
with a little kind of wonder ; and it was ilrange
that Mr. M~—ftiould be able to talk fo 5 and fure^
Mr. M— deals with the Devil^ and the like$
whereas all this while Mr. M knew nothing of
the Story ; and whatever Hand it was, and for
whatever kind purpofes, no notice was taken of it,
and Mr. M—had fo little knowledge of it himfelf
that his own Houie was burnt down in the gene*
ral difafter, and he had hardly time to fave one
quarter part of his Goods.
It might indeed beform'd here as an ObjeClion
againft this Notion, of good Spirits from thelnfivi-
ble World,and their concerning themfelves in giving
Notices of approaching Mifchiefs, viz. That they
do not concern themfelves to give fuch Notices in
S Cafes
2j8 The Hijiory and Reality
Cafes of publick Calamities, when many thoufands
not of Perfons only, but even of Families, are con-
cerned, and in danger j and even where many par-
ticular Perfons, who at other times have had fuch
warnings from them, and have been as it were their
Particular care, have been left to fall in the com-
mon difafter.
This is what I may take notice of again, ia
its proper place 5 but at prefent I am rather ob-
ferving to you what is, than the Reafon of its being
fo : The ways and works of Providence are Sove-
reign and Superiour 5 the Manner conceard,and be-
yond our Underftandings and Reafon 5 not always
Tifible tousj and yet its Proceedings not the lefs
juft, or the lefs to be accounted for in themfelves j
inor is it neceflary that we fhould be always able to
account for them to our felves. Heaven has its own
Reafons for all its Aftings, and it is not for us to
difputc its Sovereignty, any more than to examine
into the Reafon of its working. TheBifhop o^Down^
the Pious and Devout Doctor Jeremy Taylor^ in the
Cafe of an Apparition yet to be fpoken of, would
needs have the Perfon it appcar'd to ask this Que-
ilionwhen it came again, Why he appear'd,or how
he come to appear in fo fmall a matter, as that of
doing Juftice to one fingle Child, when fo many
opprefs'd Widows and Orphans groan'd under the
weight of greater Injuries, without any of their
Relations concerning themfelves in the leaft for
their Deliverance ? and the Man did accordingly
ask the Queftion, as we fhall fee in its place j
but had no anfwer given him, as indeed I think he
ought not to have cxpe6ted : but of this hereafter.
I T is certain the approach of that Terrible Fire,
the like of which was never known in this part of the
World5Wasnot difcover'd from the Invifible World}
at leaft but to very few : an evident tokea that de-
parted Souls knew nothing of it, or, if they did,
had
of APPARITIONS. i|^
had no Power to come hither, and give notice of
it 5 if they had, what Numbers of Predidions,
Forebodings and Apparitions would there have been
in the City for feme Months before
!
But are we not anfwer'd by the Scripture, and
might we not reply in the Language ofour Saviour
fpcaking of the generaV Deluge, Matt, xxiv, i^S, 39.
For as in the days that were before the floods they were
eating and drinking^ ?narrying^ and giving in marriage,^
until the day that Noe entred into the Ark^ and knew
not until the flood came^ and took them all away-,
Jq
Jhall alfo the coming of the Son of Man he ?
Just fo likewife was it at the time of the Fire
of London : 'tis faid indeed, with fome Remark, that
it was not a Wedding Night to many, if to any one
Couple in the City j becaufe the Fire beginning oa
the Sunday Morning, very few, ifany, are faid to be
marry'd of a Saturday } but as it was a mighty Cu-
(lom in thofe Days to marry on a Sunday^ fo
there were a great many Weddings appointed for
the next Morning, which were hinder'd without
any forebodings or foreknowledge 5 and that which
was infinitely worfe, many Women in Travel that
very Night, were, as it was reported, forc'd to be
carry'd out of their Chambers in the very Article
of Child-Birth, and fome as I have heard were de-
liver'd in the very Paffage from one Houfe to ano-
ther: Others, not thinking the Fire would follow
fo fail, having removed but a little way, their
^extremity being great, were oblig'd to be remov'd
Again 5 yet we find no notice of any of thefe
things given in the leaft.
This indeed is what I fay we cannot account
for, neither is there any need for us to account for
them in the DifcouiTe we are upon 5 for our Quefti-
pn is not. Why there arc no more Notices given
than there are, and why they are not univerfal to
one as well as another > as if it were a Grace Men
S a, ought
6o The H^Jlory and Reality
ought to have an equal Claim to : But 'tis a Pro-
pofition that fuch Ap.paritions there are, and that
therefore there are certain Agents fo appointed to
appear.
W E have like Accounts to thefe at the time of
the great MafTacre at Paris -y a critical Jundlure, in
which the Rage of Hell feem'd to be carry'd to
a terrible Height, and when innocent Blood lay
ready to be fpilt in a terrible manner 5 the Unguar-
ded Proteltants having no Means to avoid the Mif-
chiefs that artended them, and no Strength to refill
the Power of the Cut-throat Armies which fur-
rounded them J fo they had no Intimations from
the invifible World to aflifl: their Efcape.
But what does this amount to, any more than
the like Cafes may argue in a thoufand Calami-
ties and Difafters which hav^ befallen Mankind be-
fore? Nay, it confirms the grand Truth which I
have infilled on 5 namely, that Souls departed know
not any thing, and can communicate nothing, tho'
unembody'd Spirit may.
For could the departed Souls ofdeceas'd Relati-
ons have known that their Fathers, or Children,
or Brothers, or Relidls, ^c. were the next Day to
have been murther'd, can we doubt but they would
have given them all the Notice that it was in
their Power to do, and at leafl have alarm'd them
fo, as to put them upon their Guard, and give
them an Opportunity to die like Hero's, as many
of them were? and as they did not do thus, I think,
without Injuflice, or Prefumption, we may con-
clude they cannot 5 they could not then, neither
can others do the like now.
And yet as to fuch Notices as the Inhabitants
of the invifible World were allow'd to make, I
believe they were not without them at that time,
tho' it was not thought fit by the Appointment
of Heaven to have the wicked Rcfolution of Mur-
ther
of APPARITIONS. t6i
thcr and MafTacre defeated: as to the Reafons
why, which is what we have nothing to do to
difpute, that we leave in Silence, as we may well
do.
The Hiftories of thofe Times are full of the
fecret Warnings and Notices then given by the kind
Apparitions of thofe invifible Agents (whoever they
are) in Dream. The Admiral CoUgni had no 1 fs
than three particular Notices given him by Dreams,
that his Life was in danger, and that he would
be murther'd if he ftay'd in Paris', an Exprefs was
fent him from the Count S —-, at Saumur^ to
make his Efcape and flee for his Life before it
was too late 5 nay, it was even faid that the King
of Navarr^ who was afterwards Hen. IV. fent a
private MefTage to him to be gone, and i^ he ftaid
one Night longer he would find it impoffible :
But, as they faid afterwards, his Hour was come,
and his Fate was deter'min'd 3 and he was deaf to
his Friends, for feveral others who had a Jealoufy
of his Danger, gave him like Warnings, but it was
all in vain, he was deaf and indolent to his own
Safety.
Some others who were more obedient to the
heavenly Vifion, more touch t then with the Senfe
of their Danger, as the Count de Montgomery^ the
Vidame o£ Chartres^de Caverfac^^nd others, too many
to name 5 and who had feverally, and fome of them
jointly, timely Warning of their Danger, mounted
their Horfes, and fled the very Night before, and
preventing thp vigilance of their Purfuers, made
their Efcape.
I MIGHT here enlarge upon the Probability of
this as a Maxim, that tho' thefe Spirits may have
leave to give fuch Notice and fuch Warnings to
fome particular Perfons for the faving their Lives,
yet we are not to fuppofe 'tis plac'd in their Power
to contravene the Determination of Heaven, and
S } tor
z6z The Hljlory and Reality
to a6b contrary to Appointments of his Providence,
efpecially in things of general Import, fuch as pub-
lick Judgments, which are immediately in the dif-
poiing of his Power, and not to be difappointed
or deiay'd.
Besides, as we may have Rcafon to believe
that they all a6t by CommifHon, 'tis alfo moft cer-
tain that they cannot go an Inch, no not a Hair's
breadth beyond that Commiffion, or ilep one Foot
out of the Way of it, to the right Hand, or to
the left : and thence we are to infer that they do
not give farther or more frequent Notices to us,
becaufe they are not permitted j and this is, befides
the reft, adding a greater Reverence to the thing
itfelfj for take ofF their fupcrior CommifHon, and
I know not what wc fhould fay to them, or of
.
"what real Notice or Value they would be.
I CANNOT but fay that there were many No-
tices given of the Calamity of the Parijian Maf-
facre, which were enough to have allarm'd the
Proteftantsj and the Chiefs of them were, in fome
Meafure, allarm'd j tho' not fufficient, as it prov'd,
to drive them out of the Danger > yet fo as that
they did perceive fome Mifchief was hatching, but
they could not poffibly guefs at the manner j and
befides if they had, the other Party had gotten
them fo far in their Power that they could not
avoid the Danger, but were taken (as it were) in
a Toilj and yet they did fend fuch Notices of their
Danger to their Friends in feveral Places, as to
warn them in time to be upon their Guard; and
"which Warning did (fpeaking of fecond Caufes)
preferve them from the like Mifchief; for the
MafTacre was intended to be Univerfal, at leaft in
all the Cities in France.
CHAP.
of APPARITIONS. x6i
:#?Mei
CHAP. XII.
Of Apparitions being faid to happen juji at
the time when the Verfon fo happening to
appear is faid to be departing \ the FiBion
of it confuted.
THERE is a great Clamour, as I might juftly
call it, rais'd about Peoples appearing jufh at
the time of their expiring j and foexa£tly they will
tell us it, as to time, as if, tho' a thoufand Mile ofF,
the Soul was in Apparition the fame Moment. I fee
no foundation for any of thefe Relations, much lefs
for the Circumflances J and yet the Apparition in
felf may be really true in Fa6t : fuch a Man appear'd
to his Wife, fuch another to his Son, and the like 5
and they fet down the time, adding, and that very Mo-
ment, as near as could be calculated, he died, perhaps
in the Eafi-Indies^ or at Sea at fome vaft di (lance.
A CERTAIN Lady of my Acquaintance going
out of her Chamber into a Clofet in the adjoining
Room, faw her Husband walking along in the
Room before her : She immediately comes down in
a great furgrize, tells the Family {he had fee^i her
Husband,and fhe was fure it was hej tho' at the fame
time ihe knew her Husband (who was the Com-
mander of a Ship) was at Sea, on a Voyage to or
from the Capes of Virginia,
The Family takes the Alarm, and tells her,
that to be fure her Husband was dead, and that ihc
ihould be fure to fet down the Day of the Month,
and the Hour of the Dayj and it was ten thoufana
84 to
2(^4 *^^^ Hijiory and Reality
to one but fhe fhould find that he died that very
Moment, or as near as could be found out.
About two Months after her Husband conies
home very well 5 but had an Accident befell him
in his Voyage, viz. that ftepping into the Boar,
or out of the Boat, he fell into the Sea, and was in
danger of being loflj and this they Calculated upon
to be as near the time as they could judge, that he
appear'd to his Wife. Now if this was his Ghoftjor
Apparition of his Soul, in the Article of Death, it
feems his Soul was miftaken, and did not know
whether it was difmiis'd or no'> which is a little
ilrange, I mull confefs : but of that hereafter.
Sir Jo O was a Perfon of Note, and
of well known Credit > his Lady and one of her
Sons liv'd here in London 5 and being of a gay Dif-
pofition, and given to live high and expenfive, it
was thought fhe fpent beyond what the Knight
could afford, and that he was fenfible of it, and
unealie at it : She had a very good Houfe in London^
and a Country Houfe or Lodgings for the Summer
at and kept a great Equipage > the Confe-
quence of things did at laft prove, that Sir J 's
diflikc of it was juftly founded : but that's by the
by.
It happened one Day, the Lady being at her
Country Lodgings, a Perfon well drefs'd, appearing
very much like a Gentleman, came to her City
Houfe, and knocking at the Door, ask'd the Maid
if there were any Lodgings to be let there, and if
her Lady was at home 3 the Maid anfwer'd No,
there were no Lodgings to Lett there 5 and fpeak-
ing as if it' was with feme Refentmenr, Lodgings!
fays fhe, no, / tbink not I my Lady does not ufe to
Lett Lodgings, Well but Sweet Hearty [ays he^ don't
be difpleas'd, your Lady has had feme thoughts of
Haying at her Summer Lodgings all the Winter,
and
of APPARITIONS. \6f
and fo would difpofe of fome Apartments here for
the Parliament Seafon ; and I am diredled by her
felf to look upon the Rooms, and give my Anfweri *
let me but jufl: fee them, Child, I ihall do you no
harm : fo he ftep'd in, and as it were pufh'd by
her, going into the iirft Parlour, and fat down in
an eafy Chair, his Servant flaying at the Door > and
as the Maid did not apprehend any Mifchief, ihe
went in after him j for he did not look like one
thatjcame with an ill Defign, or to rob the Houfe 5
but look'd like a Gentleman that could have no-
thing of fucha kind in his Viewj fo I fay (he went
in after him.
When {he came in he rofc up, and looking a-
bout the Room, he found fault with every thing,
the Furniture, and the manner of it, nothing pleas'd
him J not as if not good enough for him, but that
all was too good, and too rich, far above her Qua-
lity that own'd it 3 That the Lady did not know
what (he did, that it was an Expence fhe could not
carry on, and her Eftate would not fupport it j but
that fuch a way of living would bring all the Fa-
mily to Ruin and Beggary, and the like.
B Y and by fhe carried him into another Parlour,
and there he did juft the fame 5 he told her he ad-
mir'd what her Lady meant j that ihe liv'd in a
Figure which Sir John's Eftate could never main-,
tain, and fhe would but ruin him, and bring him
into Debt, and fo he would be undone by her Ex-
travagance.
. Upon this the Maid begun to take him fhort
a little, and told him, this was all out of the way
of what he came about j if the Lodgings were too
good for him, that was his Bufinefs indeed, but elfe he
had nothing to do with her Lady, and how fhe
pleas'd to furnifh her Houfe : That her Mafter was
a Gentleman of a great Eftate, and had large Plan-
tations
66 The Hijiory and Reality
tations in Jamaica^ that he conftantly fupply'd her
Lady with Money, fiifficient for her Support, and
for all her Expcnces 5 and ihe wonder'd he fhould
trouble himfelf with th^, which ihe was fure was
none of his Bufinefs : in fliort, the Girl huffed him,
and ask'd him what it was to him, who was a
Stranger, how her Lady liv'd.
However he turns to the Maid, and fitting
down again, calmly enter'd into fome Difcourfc
with her about her Lady, and her wuy of Living,
and told fo many of the Secrets of the Family to
her, that flie began to ufe him better, and to per-
ceive that he knew more of the Family than {he
thought he had, or indeed than fhe did her felfj
at laft the Wench began to be uneafie, and to que-
llion in her Thought, whether it was not her Ma-
iler himfelf, come over Incognito^ and only that he
h.id T'.ot yet difcover'd himfelf.
She tried feveral times to learn who he was, his
Quality, his Country, his Name, and how fhe
might fend to him 5 but he put it off, only told her
he would go to where her Lady lodg'd, and
"wait upon her Lady himfelf> and fo treating the
Servant very civily, and thanking her for fhowing
him the Houfe, he went away in Form with his
Servant following him, fo that he did not vanifli as
an Apparition at all.
Yet the poor Wench was very uneafie, {he be-
gan to think it could not be an ordinary Creature,
becaufe he gavefuch flrange and particular Accounts
of things done in the Family 5 as where feveral things
were depofited that belong'd to the Family, with feve-
ral Circum{i:ances belonging to her Mi{lrefs, to her
little Son, and to his Father in the JVeft- Indies s and,
in {hort, faid fome things, which, as ihe faid, none
but the Devil could tell of: which, by thelway, was
talking as ignorant People talk of fu^h things j
namely.
of APPARlTlO NS. 167
namely, that if any thing be faid, or done, out of
the ordinary Way, and more than is common for
Men to talk, or do, they immediately fay it mull
be the Devil,
I T muft be confefs'd, it fhews a Difference be-
tween the Prefent and the P^ift Ages : In former
Times, if a Man did extraordinary Things, he was
look'd upon as infpir'd from Heaven j or if great mi-
raculous Things were wrought, it was faid imme-
diately to be from Heaven. Come fee a Man that
has told me all that ever I did^ fays the Woman of
Samaria^ John iv. 2p. and it follows, is not this the
Chrijl^ (he did not fay prefently this muft be the
Devil. Never Man /pake like this Man ! fay the Mef-
fengers fent to apprehend Jefus Chrift, and away
they came without him, ftrook with awful Appre-
henfions, 7^^;^ vii. 49. not concluding prefently that \
it was the Devil No Man could do thefe Miracles
that thou doeft^ except God be with him^ John iii. 2.
he does not fay, no Man could do fuch Miracles as
thefe, but it muft be the Devil. On the contrary,his
Conciufion is, IVe know by thefe Miracles, that thou
art a 'Teacher fent from God. But now, if any thing
be done extraordinary, or faid furprizingly, ic muft
be xht Devil 'y as if God had ceas'd to work, and all
Extraordinaries were committed to the Devil.
Thus the Pertuis Roftan^ which is a wonderful
Paffage cut through a Mountain near Briangon^ on
the Frontiers of DaupFme^ calPd one of the five
Wonders of Dauphine, is faid to be the Work of
the Devil y only becaufe the People have no Hiftory
recording the Time or Manner of its making, or by
who J and becaufe they think it paft the Power of
Men's Hands : and the like of many Places, and
Things in England. But this is a Digreffion.
The Poor Wench I am fpeaking of was fur-
priz'd very much at this Gentleman, and more af- »
ter
! The Hijiory and Reality
ter he was gone, than before j for he did not give
her time before, to refle6t upon the Particulars he
mentioned to her, but following one thing with
another, he found her enough to do to take in the
heads of Things in the grofs.
But when he was gone, and fhe came to refle6t,
and lay things together, fhe began to confider, Who
mufl this be? How could he know fuch and fuch
things? How could he tell whorePi6lure that was?
Where ray Miftrefs had fuch a Suit of Curtains,
and fuch a Cabinet ? Who muft he be, to tell me
how long my Mafter has been at Jamaica^ how
much his Eftate is there, and how much Money he
has fenr my Lady over, in fo and fo long time ?
This mull be the Devil in my Mailer's Cloaths, fome-
thir.g niiiflbe in it, I'll go to my Lady, and let her
know itallj and with this the Maid gets a Wo-
man, that ufed to be trufted in (uch Cales, to look
after the Houfe, and away fhe goes to — to
her Miflrefs, without fo much as flaying to drefs
her.
Indeed I think 'tis a part of the Story, that
the Gentleman defir'd fhe would acquaint her
Miftreiswith it 5 that fuch aPerfon had been there;
and gave her fome particular Tokens, by which he
faid her Miflrefs would underfland who he was;
and that fhe fhould tell her what he faid, that
her Income would not fupport the Expences
fhe liv'd at, but that it would bring her to Ruin,
and fhe would be undone; but this Part I do not
pofitively remember ; but that he told the Maid it
would be fo, that I am particular in.
However, the poor Girl, the more fhe rumi-
nated upon the thing, the more fhe was frighted,
and diforder'd about it; and away fhe went, as I
have faid, to give her Lady an Account of it : and
fhe was the more eager to go alfo, becaufe fhe under-
Hood him, that he intended to wait upon her him-
fdf,
of APPARITIONS. 169
fclf, to talk about the Lodgings j and fo fhe would
prepare her Lady to receive him, and to conlider
what kind of a Man it mull be, that fhe might not
be frighted at him: But he had been too quick for
the Maid.
When fhe came to fhe found her Mi-
flrefs thrown down upon the Bed very ill, and fo
ill, that at firfl they told her fhe could not fpeak
^vith her. Don't tell me, fays Mary^ (that is the
London Maid) I muft fpeak with her, and will fpcak
with her, for I have extraordinary Buiinefs with
her. What extraordinary Bufinefs can you have?
fays the Lady's Woman, taunting at her 5 if your
Bufinefs was from the Devil^ you can't fpeak with
my Lady jufl now, for fhe is v^ry ill, and laid
^down upon the Bed.
From the Devil! fays Mary. I do'n't know but
it may, and I believe it is indeed, and I mufl fpeak
with my Lady immediately.
Nay, fays the TVomanj here has been one Mei- -
fenger too many from the Devil already, I think %
fure you don't come of his Errand too, do ye?
J don't know whofe Errand I come of, but
I am frighted out of my Wits 5 let me fpeak witk
my Lady prefently, or I fhall die before I deliver
my MefTage.
Die ! fays the Woman: I v/ifh my Lady don't die
before fhe can hear it 5 pr'ythee Mary^ if it be any
thing to fright her, don't tell it her juft now, for
fhe is almod frighted to Death already.
WHY^ fays Maryy has my Lady feen any thing?
A Y, ay : Seen ! fays the Woman^ fhe has {ztn
and heard too 5 here has been a Man here, has
brought her fome dreadful Tidmgs, I don't know
what it is.
They talk'd this fo loud, or were fo near, that
the Lady heard fomething of it, and immediately
flie rung a Bell for her Woman.
Whem
z^b The Hifiory and Reality
When the Woman went in, Who is that be-
low, fays Jhe^ talking fo earneftly ? is any body come
in from London ?
'
Yes, Madam, fays her Womm^ here is Mary
come to fpeak with your Ladyfhip.
MART come^ fays fi^j with a Surprize, what's
the Matter! what, has fhe feen any thing too? mer-
cy on me, what's the Matter ! what does fhe fay ?
She does not fay much. Madam, fays the Wo-
man^ but fhe wants mightily to fpeak with your
Ladyfhip, and is in a great Hurry.
What, fays the Lady^ is fhe frighted?
I BELIEVE fhe is, fays the tVoman^ but fhe
won't tell any thing but to your felf.
O, I fhall die ! fays the Lady } call her up.
Pray Madam, fays her JVoman^ don't call her
up 'till your Ladyfhip has recover'd your felf a
little from your other Diforders 5 fhe'U tell you fome
wild Tale or other of her own Imagination, that
will raife the Vapours, and do you a Mifchief.
O, fays the Lady^ let me hear ir, let it be what
it will i if it be from the Devil^ it can't be worfe
than it is 5 call her up, I mufl fpeak with her.
Accordingly Mary came up, and the Wo-
man was order'd to withdraw.
A s foon as the Door was fhut, her Lady burft
out into Tears again, for fhe had been crying ve-
hemently before. O Mary^ fays fie^ I have had a
dreadful Vifit this Afternoon, here has been your
Mafler.
My Mafler! Why, Madam, that's impofUble.
Nay, it has been your Mafler to be fure, or
the Devil in his Likenefs.
I N a word, 'tis certain it was her Husband in
Apparition, or an Apparition of her Husband, and
he talk'd very warmly and clofely to her, and told
her his Eftate would not fupport her expcnfive
way of Living, and that Ihe would bring her felf
to
ef APPARITIO NS. z/i
to Mifery and Poverty j and a great deal more to
the fame Purpofe, as he had faid to Mary.
Af^fi^jT immediately ask'd her Ladyfhip, what
manner he appear'd in j and by the Defcription that
iier Miftrefs gave, it was exactly the fame Figure
that came to her, and defired to fee the Lodgings j
£o Mary gave her Lady a particular Relation of
what happen'd to her alfo, and of the Mcffage fhc
was charg'd to deliver.
What followed upon this Alarm, and how the
Lady was reduced, and obliged to fell her fine Fur-
niture and Equipage, and came to very low Cir-
cumftances, tho' it was a part of the Story, is not
fo much to my Purpofe in the Relation. But what
is remarkable to the Cafe in hand is, that they
alledge, that juft at this Juncture Sir 7—^ O —ne^
the Lady's Husband, died in the Wefl-Indies : I fup-
pofe by his Death her Supplies were immediately
Hopped, and that was the Occafion of her being
reduced fo fuddenly.
Now the Apparition, and its appearing in the
Shape or Figure of the Husband, his warning her
of her approaching Circumftances, and moving her
to abate her expenfive way of Liviog, and the like,
all this is agreeable to the Opinion I have already
given, that good Spirits may be allowed to afTume
humane Shape, and the Shape of any particulair
Perfon, whether the Perfon be dead or living; and
may appear to us, to caution us in our wrong
Meafures, to warn us againft impending Mifchiefs,
and to direct us in Difficulties. And how merciful
is it to Mankind, that there are fuch kind Moni-
tors at hand, at any time, for our good
!
But that this muft be juft in the Article of
Death, juft when the Perfon was dying, and the
Soul departing; as if the Soul could Itay in its
PafTagc, between Life, and the eternal State, to
call at this, or that Place, and deliver a Meflage ;
For
271 T^^ Hijiory and Reality
For Example > if ft was to be carry'd by the An-
gels into jibrabam's Bofom, you mud fuppofe thofe
Angels would go about with it from Jamaica to
London^ to give it leave to fpeak with his Wife,
before its Tranflation, before thofe fwift Meflcn-
gers perform'd their Task 5 nay that he mull flop
at the London Houfe, aflume a Shape for that Pur-
pofe, talk about the moll frivolous things with
Mary the Servant Maid, and then go with another
formal Errand to—to his Wife, all this in his Journey ;
and having difpatch'd thefe more weighty Affairs,
then go on for Heaven afterwards.
This, I fay, has to me no Confiflency in it, no
Coherence, it does not hang together in my Opi-
nion at all, nor can I make any common Senfc of
it J no, not if I was to come to theoldpoetickFiiSbi-,
ons of Charon and his Ferry-Boat5 even the old
Ferry- Man would not have flept out of his Way,
upon any fuch Bufinefs.
What might be dene by the Agency of thofe
Spirits, appointed by the Great Lord of all Spirit,
to attend for the good of his Creatures, I have not
the leaft Obje£lion againfljbut that the Soul of the
Deceafed, or Departed, can come of this Errand it
felf, that I deny, and mufl infifl upon it, that there
is neither Reafon or Religion in it, 'tis founded
wholly in the Imagination j and tho' the Imagina-
tion may not in this Cafe form the Apparition, yet
'tis evident the Imagination only appropriates it to
the Perfon, that is, to the Soul of the Perfon, who
has really no Share in the Operation.
Upon this Foundation likewife flands the old
Heathen Notion, taken from the Cafe of JchiUes
and his Friend Patroclus^ that the Soul of the De-
ceafed cannot be at Rell, 'till he has come and given
Notice of fuch and fuch things; that Juflice be
done to fuch and fuch mjur'd Perfons; and Money,
foandfoappropriated* be regularly difpofed, and the
Will
of APP ARITION S, 173
Will of the Deceafed punftually performed : Thefe
1 take not to be imaginary but fictitious, and made
or fupplyed out of the Invention of the Relator^ in
order to difh up the Story.
And this makes the Story of the Duke of
Buckinghani's Father, of which mention has been
made already, be liable to fo many Exceptions :
That his Father could not reft, or his Soul could
not be at reft, becaufe of the wicked Life his Soa
George liv'd at Court j That part muft certainly be
added by fome of the very very many Relators, or
who have calPd themfelves Relators of that Story j
and my Lord Clarendon^ who {cems to have been the
moft exadt and judicious in the putting the whole
Story together, has none of that Paffage in his Ac*
count of it, as we fhall fee prefently.
Upon what Religious Foundation can we fug*
geft, that the Sins of the Children fhould difquiet
the Fathers in their Graves, or that the Souls de-
parted can receive any Impreffion from the Beha-
viour of thofe in Life, fubfequent to any Aftion
thofe Souls departed have been concerned in ?
That they may be affeded in a Future State
with the Wickednefs and Offences committed in
their paft Life, that I will not doubt j tho' even
not that in fuch a manner, as to fend them back
hither upon any Errand about it 5 for all is irre*
trievable j as there is no Repentance, fo no Repa-
ration, there is neither IVork nor Invention in th^
Grave^ whither we are all going. The Soul may
be in a State of Self- Reflection and Reproach 5 but
not in a State of Readion, no recovering for our
felves, nor concern for others j *tis all out of^ the
Queftion, and all the Notices from the other fide
of the Curtain come from other Hands, whofe
Name foever they may fpea,k in^ 6x whofe Shape
foe^er they may aftume.
i74 The Hifiory and Reality
I A M forc'd, how relu&ant foever, to talk Scrip-
ture to my Readers^ upon this nice part of the
Subject J whether they will lay any wejght upon
it or no, be that to themfelves.
I INSIST upon it, that the Souls of the dead
can make no Vifits hither when once they are re-
moved 5 that when they are unembodied, difrob'd
of Fleih and Blood, they have no more concern
with or about us j fo as either to difturb their Reft
or ours 5 and this is plain to me, not only from the
Nature of the thing, from Reafon and Obfervati-
on> but from the Scripture. Eccl. ix. f. For the
living know that they jhall die : hut the dead know not
any things neither have they any more a Reward^ for
the memory of them is fotgotten. This latter part re-
lates to their having any Reward or Concern in
things here of this Life, no more Reward or Be-
nefit or Share of things here : But look into the
next words, ver. (5. jllfo their love^ and their hatred^
and their envy is now perijhedy neither have they any
more^a portion for ever in any thing that is done under
the Sun,
What can be plainer than this, if Scripture
be of any moment among us? if not, I can fay
nothing to that. But I fay, what can be plainer,
and what do thofe People mean who tell us a Ghoft
or Spirit appeared, and faid it could not be at Reft
*till it had come to do fo and fo, 'till it had difco-
ver'd fuch and fuch things, and 'till it had feen ic
well perform'd ?
I F my Vote in this Cafe may be of any Value,
or I may offer any thing by way of Diredion to
weaker Heads j let them make this one thing a
Chara6ber or Mark to know fuch things by, or to
judge of them, viz. That when they meet with
any Story told in fuch a manner, they ihould con-
clude it a fid:ion, a cheat j that it is only a Scory
made by the Invention of Story- Makers, a Dclu-
fion.
of APPARITIONS. 17S
fion, and that no Spirit or Apparition really com-
ihg upon any MefTage from the Invifible World,
ever talks after that manner > or that if they do 'tis
a Cheat of the Devil to carry on fome Delufion,
and to make fome Lye appear plaufible; for that
there can be no reality in it5that's aflerced as above,
Tbe dead know not any things not any thing HEREy
but rheir Love^ and their Hatred^ and their Env^ is
perijhed,
W E have another Story to offer in this cafe,
which has been mention'd, as if it were the A£b
and Deed of the Perfon departed 5 and in whofe
Name it was faid to be done, and who, as we may
fay, was perfonated in it. I ihall relate the Story
impartially as I receiv'd it, and let all the Advan-
tage that can be taken of it be made, I believe it
will not amount to any rational Conclufion, in Fa-
vour of ithis Notion, that the Soul of the Perfon
deceafed is any way concern'd in it, or in any part
of it.
This is the famous Story of the Apparition of
one James Haddock in Ireland^ which is publifli'd
many feveral ways, and that by feveral Anchors 5
and fome of them intimating that it was really the
departed Soul of James Haddock^ who could not be
at Refl, as fome of the Writers of the Story would
infinuate, becaufe his little Son by his Wife E-
leanor Welch was wrong'd in a Leafe left by him to
th^ Child y but kept from him by her fecond Hus-
band .
The abridged Story is this. In the Year i(5(52,
an Apparition meets one Francis Taverner on the
Highway •, the Man having Courage to fpeak to it,
asks it what he is ? and the Apparition tells him
he is James Haddock^ and gives him feveral Tokens
to remember him by, which taverner alfo calling
to mind owns them > and then boldly demands of
the Apparition what budnefs he had with him 5
T ^ the
zy6 T^^ Hljlory and Redltty
the Apparition did not tell his Bufinefs that Night;
but would have had I'a'verner xodiO. back his way with
him, and he would tell him his Bufinefs, which
"Taverner refus'd, as well he might ; and that part
indeed feems the only improbable part of the
Story.
However the next Night the Apparition
comes to him again, and then tells him the Bufi-
nefs, which was to defire him to go to his Wife,
whofe Maiden Name was Eleanor fVelJh'y but was
then marry'd again to one Davis^ which Davis
with-held the Lcafc from the Orphan, Haddock's Son,
and tell her fhe fhould caufe Juflice to be done to
the Child.
T'AFERNER neglefted to perform this Er-
rand, and was fo continually foliow'd by the Ap-
parition, that it was exceeding terrible to him ;
and at lad it threaten'd to tear him in Peices, if he
did not go of his Errand.
Upon this he goes and delivers the Mefiage to
the Woman, who if feems took but fmall Notice
of it J and then the Apparition came again, and
told him he muft go to his Executor, and do the
fame Errand 3 which he was it feems afraid to do,
for fear of Davis -, but the Apparition threaten'd
Davis if he fhould attempt to do him (Xavemer)
any Injury.
N. B. Here I am to Note^ that this Story made
fo much Noife in the Country^ and the Parti-
culars appear''d to he fo faithfully related hy Ta-
verner, that abundance of Perfons of Note
\ '
came to him to have the Relation from his own
Mouth J and among the reft the Lord Bijhop of
Down and Qonnov^ who I name in Reverence^
not to his Dignity only^or fo much^ as in Reve-
rence of his known Piety and Serioufnefs in Reli-
gion: Being the farrCd Do6ior Jeremy Taylor,
Author of a known Book calVd Rules of Holy
Living and Dying. This
of APFARITIO N S. 177
This Reverend Father fent for the faid Francis
^averner^ to examine him about this firange fiene of
Providence^ fo the Bifhop call'd itj and he did
examine him llri6lly about it, and the Account
fays, hisLordfhip was fully fatisfied, that the Appa*
rition was true and real 5 that is to fay, that it was
true that there was really fuch an Apparition.
Now all this is within the Bounds of what I
have laid down, viz. That there are really Appa-
ritions, and thefe Apparitions do perfonate fuch and
fuch Bodies or Shapes, whofe Names they take
upon them, and whofe Perfons they reprefent.
But for the reft, I think all the Notions that
the People then entertain'd of it, and even the Bi-
fhop among the reft, muft be very erroneous and
miftaken. For,
I. The Biftiop entertain'd the Story, as if this
Apparition was really the Soul of the departed
James Haddock\pi% appeared by a fecond Examination
of faverner by his Lordfliip ; for the Lady CeU'-
way^ and other Perfons of Quality, hearing the
Biftiop had fent for T'averner to examine him, went
all away to be prefent at the Examination : And the
Biftiop being gone to a Town call'd Hillsbro* three
Miles off^, the Company went all thither, and fa^
verner was fent for to them, and there examin'd
of all the Particulars again, and anfwer'd again to
the Satisfa6tion of all the Company.
But here (and for this reafon I relate this part)
his Lordftiip, after asking many more Queftions,
concluded by adviftng I'averner to ask the Appari-
tion when it came again, Whence are you, are you
a good or an evil Spirit ? by v^hich is fuppos'd his
Lordfliip underftood, Are you in a good or bad
State j for his next Qiieftion was, Where is your
Abode? what Station do you hold ? how are you
regimented in the other World ? and what is the
Reafon that you appear for the Relief of your Son
T 3
ia
lyB ^loe tiijton and Reality
in fo fmall a Matter, when fo many Widows and
Orphans are opprefs'd in the World, being de-
frauded of greater JVI alters, and none from thence
of their Relations appear to right them ?
And the very fame Night ta'verner meeting
the Apparition again, who, it feems, was fully fa-
tisfy'd with what he had done in delivering the
Meflage to the Executory at this Appearing 'Ta^
'uerner ask'd him the Queftions above, but it gave
him no Anfwer 3 and indeed it could not be ex-
pe6bed that Curiofity fhould be anfwered.
'
For, as I faid above, it is evident by the
Queftions, the Biihop, in all thefc Examinations,
fell in with the vulgar Error of the Time about
fuch Apparitions, namely, that it was the Soul of
yames Haddock', and well indeed might he ask how
he came 10 Appear, when others in Cafes of
greater Moment did not.
But he fhould have ask'd. How is it poflible
you that are dead fhould be acquainted with thefe
Circumftances, when the Word of God fays ex-
prefly the Dead know not any thing, and that all
their Love and Hatred is perifhed ? Had he ask'd
him, that, perhaps he might have told him that he
Was not xhtSouXo^James Haddock^ but a good Spirit
fent from the invifible World by the efpecial directi-
on of Heaven, to right a poor, ruin'd, opprefs'd
Orphan, abandoned to Injury by its own unnatural
Mother. But to talk of the Soul of James Had'
dock^ and what Station it held in the other World,
the Apparition might well go away, and give no
Anfwer to it.
Nor in any of this Difcourfe did the Appari-
tion pretend it was not at Reft, or could not be
at Reft 'till Juftice was done to the Child, or 'till
the Meftiige was deliver'd ; the Apparition was too
juft to itfeif to fay fo: and on the other Hand,
*tis to me one of the moft convincing Proofs, that
it
<1
of AP PARITIO N S. 17^
it was really an Apparition or Appearance of a
Spirit.
Now, as in other Cafes, what Spirit it was may
be worth taking Notice of 5 here is not the leafl
room to fuggeft that it was the Devil^ or an evil
Spirit} and therefore the Bifhop was wrong in
that too, to ask if it was a good or evil Spirit; for
how ihould his Wifdom judge, who was himfelf
a good Man, that an evil Spirit fhould come of a
good Errand, to right an injur*d Orphan, an op-
prefs'd Fatherlefs Child? the Devil^ or any evil
Spirit, could hardly be fuppos'd to move about
fuch Bufinefs.
It is to be obferv'd here, and fhould have been
added to the Story, that the faid Davis and his
Wife, tho' it feems much againft his Will, did
give up the Leafe to the Child, the Son of that
James Haddock j with this difmal Circumftance, at-
tending it, viz. That about five Years after, and
when the Bifhop was dead, one Cojilet^ who was
the Child's Truftee, threatned to take away the
Leafe again, rail'd at ^averner^ and made terrible
Imprecations upon himfelf if he knew of the Leafe,
and threatned to go to Law with the Orphan.
But one Night being drunk at the Town of i7/7/-
Hall^ near Lishurne in Ireland^ where all this Scene
was laid, going home he fell from his Horfe and
never fpoke more, and fo the Child enjoy'd the
Eflate peaceably ever after.
I N a Word, the little injur'd Orphan feem'd to
be the Care of Heaven in a particular manner 5
and the good Angel which appear'd in its behalf
without doubt executed God's Juflice upon the
wicked drunken OpprefTor, the Trufleej and as
he imprecated Vengeance on himfelf, fo that fame
Spirit might be Commiffion'd to fee it fall upon
him.
T 4 Ani>
^io The Hijlory and Reality
And here it mofl: naturally occurs to obfervc
that the departed Souls of Men and Women dead
and buried, cannot be fuppos^d to have any Com-
miffion to execute particular Vengeance on any
in this World i the Suppofition of this would
bring a confus'd medly of Notions upon us, fuch
as would be inconfiftcnt not with Religion only,
but even with common Senfej and which need
not take up any of our Pains to confute them.
Nothing has more filPd the idle Heads of
the old Women of thefe latter Ages than the
^Stories of Ghofts and Apparitions coming to Peo-
ple, to tell them where Money was hidden, and
how to find it j and 'tis wonderful to me that
fuch Tales fhould make fuch Impreflions, and that
fomctimes among wife and judicious People too,
as we find they have done. How many old Hou-
fes have been almoft pull'd down, and Pitts fruit-
lefly dug in the Earth, at the ridiculous Motion
of pretended Apparitions? of which I ihall fpeak
more in its Place.
I H A V E hitherto ftudioufly avoided giving you
any Accounts, however extraordinary, that have
been already made publickj but this one, which
relates to the Aflaflination of the great Duke of
Buckingham^ (whether famous or infamous I know
not which to determine him) in the time of the
late King Charles I, I cannot omit, becaufe the va-
rious manner of its being related fo eminently
touches the Cafe in Hand.
That the Duke of Buckingham was ftabb'd by
one Lieutenant Felton at Portfmouth^ as he was go-
ing upon an Expedition for the Relief of RochellCy
Hiilory is fo full of it, and all that know any
thing of our EngUJh Annals are fo well acquainted
with the Story of it, that I need fay nothing to
introduce that Part: Mr. Aubrey takes upon him
|:o relate the Story of an Apparition upon this Oc-
cafion in the following manner
:
To
of APPARITIONS. '
z8
*' To one Mr. Towes who had been School- fel-
*^
low with Sir George Fillers^ the Father of the
** firft Duke of Buckingham^ and was his Friend
^' and Neighbour, as he lay in his Bed awake (and
*' it was Day-light) came into his Chamber the
*' Phantome of his dear Friend Sir George Fillers.
" Said Mr. "Towes to him. Why, you are dead i
*' what makes you here? Said the Knight, I am
'' dead, but cannot reft in Peace for the Wicked-
*' nefs and Abomination of my Son George at Court,
'' I do appear to, you to tell him of it, and to ad-
*' vife and dehort him from \ his evil ways. Said
*'
Mr. Towes^ The Duke will not believe me, but
'^ will fay that I am mad, or doat. Said Sir George
" Go to him from me, and tell him' by fuch
*' a Token (a Mole) that he had in fome fecrec
" Place, which none but himfelf knew of. Accord-
'' ingly Mr. Towes went to the Duke, who laughed
*' at his Mejfage. At his return home, the Phantome
*' appeared again, and told that the Duke would
*' be ftabb'd (he drew out a Dagger) a quarter of a
'' Year after 5 which accordingly happened.
This Part of the Story indeed is calculated like
a true Chimney-corner Piece of News 5 that Sir
Georget who was dead, ihould fay he could notoreft
in Peace for the Wickednefs and Abomination of
his Son George at Court.
Preposterous! What State muft old Sir
George be in? If in a State of Mifery, what does he
mean by refiing in Peace ? if in a State of BlefTednefs,
what could his Son do to impeach his Reft? and if
we fhall give any. weight to what the Scripture
fays in that Cafe, he knew nothing of him, let his
own State or his Son's -^^^;;^/»^//^;/i (as he calls them)
be what they would. See Job xiv. ip, 20, 21. The
waters wear the Stones: thou wajheft away the things
which grow out of the dufi of the earthy and thou de^
firoyefi the hope of man. Thou prevaileji for ever againfi
z^% ^^ Hi/lory and Reality
I hini'i and he pajfeth : thou changefl his countenance^
findfendefi him awaf. His fans come to honour^ and he
knoweth it not'y and they are brought low, hut he pev-
ceiveth it not of them,
'Tis plain here that the Hope (that is the
Knowledge and Wifdom) of Man as to this World,
is deftroyed and waih'd away in Death j his Sons
may rife or fall, be great or little, high or low,
good or evil, *tis all one to him, he knows nothing
of it. How then could Sir George Fillers fay, feveral
Years after he was dead too, that he could not reft
in Peace? What! had he been at Reft and in Peace,
and was he difquieted again by his Son George*^
Wickcdnefs? that does not hang together at all.
The old Knight had been dead feveral Years before
jiis Son George came to rife at Court j when he did
rife, he was not immediately fo abominably wicked
as he was afterward : Where then was the Soul of
Sir George the Father, all the while? his Reft could
not bedifturb'd *tillthe Circumftances that difturb'd
it happen'd.
*
B u T my Lord Clarendon tells this fame Story,
xvith much more Probability of Truth j for
firft he leaves out the Abfurdity, which indeed his
JLordfliip was too wife a Man to impofe upon the
World with the Sandion of his Authority, nor
was there Senfe enough in it to give it Credit.
I N the next Place he does not make the Perfon
to whom Sir George Fillers appeared, be an Equal,
and an Intimate Friend, but one that had liv'd in
the fame Town where Sir George had liv'd, and had
not feen him for many Years, but recolleded him
from the Cloaths he had feen him wear j whereas
the Story above makes them dear Friends, which
if it had been fo, it was not likely he fhould re-
fufe to hear the Mcffage, and yet he fcruples it
very much.
Bui'
,>t
APPARITIONS. t
But there are more difcording Circumftanccs in
the Story. Let us take the Lord Clarendon's Re-
lation, which is done with an appparent Regard to
Truth, and is as follows :
The Account ofthe Apparition ofSir George
Villers, relating to the Murther of theT>uke
of Buckingham his Son^ as taken from the
Lord ClarendonV Hijiory, Vol. L Fo. 34,
35". as follows:
'' T H R R E were many Stories fcatter'd abroad at
*^ that time of feveral Prophecies and Predidions
" of the Duke's untimely and violent Death j
*' amongft the reft, there was one which was up-
'* on a better Foundation of Credit than ufually
*^ fuch Difcourfes are founded upon.
" There was an Officer in the King's Ward-
*^ robe in Windfor-Caflle^ of a good Reputation
'' for Honefty and Difcretion, and then about the
*^ Age of fifty Years or more.
" This Man had in his Youth been bred in a
'' School in the Parifti where Sir George FillerSj
*^ the Father of the Duke, liv'd, and had been
*' much cherifh'd and obliged in that Seafon of
" his Age by the faid Sir George^ whom after-
" wards he never faw.
" About fix Months before the miferable End
*' of the Duke of Buckingham^ about Midnight,
^^ this Man being in his Bed at Windfor^ where his
*' Office was, and in very good Health, there ap-
" peared to him on the fide of his Bed, a Man
*' of a very venerable Afpeft, who drew the Cur-
" tains of his Bed, and fixing his Eyes upon hin),
'' ask'd him if he knew him.
''The poor Man, half dead with Fear and Ap-
*' prehenfion, beiiig ask'd the fecond time, whether
" he
1 84 The Hijiory and Reality
** he remembred him, and having in that time
'* called to his Memory the Prefence of Sir George
**•
Fillers^ and the very Cloaths he ufed to wear,
" in which at that time he feem'd to be habited,
" he anfwer'd him. That he thought him to be
*' that Perfon > he reply'd, He was in the right^,
'' that he was the fame, and that he expe6ted a
" Service from him, which was, That he fhould
" go from him to his Son the Duke ofj Buck-
" ingham^ and tell him, if he did not fomewhat to
** ingratiate himfelf to the People, or at lead to
*' abate the extreme Malice which they had againft
*' him, he would be fufFer'd to live but a ihorc
*' time.
'' After this Difcourfe he difappear'd, and the
** poor Man (if he had been at all waking) flept
" very well 'tfll Morning, when he believed all
*' this to be a Dream, and confider'd it no other-
" wife.
*' The next Night, or fhortly after, the fame
*' Perfon appear'd to him again,|in the fame Place,
*^ and about the fame time of the Night, with
*' an Afpe<5t a little more fevere than before, and
*' asked him. Whether he had done as he had re-*
" quired of him 5 and perceiving he had not, gave
'^ him very fevere Reprehenfions, told him he ex-
*' pe6ted more Compliance from him, and that if
*^ he did not perform his Commands, he fhould en-
*' joy no Peace of Mind 5 but fhould always be
" purfu'd'by him: Upon which, he promifed him
*'
to obey. But the next Morning, waking out of
a good Sleep, tho' he was exceedingly perplex'd
with the lively Reprefentation of all Particulars
to his Memory, he was willing dill to perfuade
" himfelf that he had only dream'd, and confi-^
^' der'd that he was a Perfon at fuch a diftance
*' from the Duke, that he knew not how to find
^' Quc any Admiffion to his Prefence, much lefs
" had
of APPARITIONS. iSy
** had any Hope to be believed in what he fliould
^' fay > fo with great Trouble and Unquietnefs he
" fpcnt fome time in thinking what he (hould do^
" and in the end refolved to do nothing in the
'' matter.
"The fame Perfon appeared to him the third
^' Time with a terrible Countenance, and bitterly
*^ reproaching him for not performing what he had
'^ promifed to do. The poor Man had, by this time,
" recovered the Courage to tell him, that in Truth
*' he had deferred the Execution of his Commands,
" upon confidering how difficult a thing it would
" be for him to get any Accefs to the Duke, ha-
" ving Acquaintance with no Perfon about him 5
" and if he fhould obtain Admiflion to him, he
" Hiould never be able to perfuade him that he
'* was fent in fuch a manner > that he fhould at
" leaft be thought to be mad, or to be fct ori
^' and employ'd by his own, or the Malice of other
'^ Men to abufe the Duke 3 and fo he fhould be fure
" to be undone.
" The Perfon reply'd, as he had done before,
" that he fhould never find Reft 'till he fhould
" perform what he required, and therefore he were
" better to difpatch it> that the Accefs to his Son
" was known to be very eafie, and that few Men
" waited long for him 5 and for the gaining him
" Credit, he would tell him two or three Parti-
" culars, which he charged him never to mention
" to any Perfon living but to the Duke himfelfj
'^ and he fhould no fooner hear them but he fhould
" believe all the reft he fhould fay 5 and fo repeat-
" ing his Threats, he left him.
" In the Morning the poor Man, moreconfirm'd
" by the laft Appearance, made his Journey to
" London^ where the Court then was j he was ve-
^' ry well known to Sir Ralph Freernan^ one of the
" Mafters of Requefts, who had married a Lady
" that
The Hiftory and Reality
^^ that was nearly ally'd to the Duke, and was him-
" felf well received by him : To him this Man
** went, and tho' he did not acquaint him with
" all the Particular^, he faid enough to let him
<* Icnow there was fomething extraordinary in itj
" and the Knowledge he had of the Sobriety and
•^ Difcretion of the Man, made the more Impreflion
*^ on him : He defircd that by his means he might
" be brought to the Duke in fuch a Place and in
" fuch a Manner as ihould be thought fit, affirm-
*' ing that he had much to fay to him, and of
*' fuch a Nature as would require much Privacy,
*' and fome Time and Patience in the hearing.
"Sir Ralph promised he would fpeak firft with
*' the Duke of him, and then he fhould under-
*' ftand his Pleafurej and accordingly, the firft Op-
" portunity he did inform him of the Reputation
*' and Honefty of the Man, and then what he de-
" fired, and of all he knew of the matter.
"The Duke, according to his ufual Opennefs
" and Condefcenfion, told him, that he was the
" next Day early to hunt with the Kingj that
" his Horfes fiiould attend him at Lambeth Bridge,
" where he fhould land by five of the Clock in the
" Morning J and if the Man attended him there at
" that Hour, he would walk and (peak with him
'^ as long as ihould be neceflary. j
"Sir Ralph carried the Man with him the ^
*' next Morning, and prefented him to the Duke
" at his Landing, who received him courteoufly,
*' and walked afide in Conference near an Hour^
*' none but his own Servants being at that Hour
" in that Place > and they and Sir Ralph at fuch a
" Diftance, that they could not hear a Word, tho*
" the Duke fometimes fpoke loud, and with great
" Commotion, which Sir Ralph the more eafily
" obferv'd and perceived, becaufe he kept his Eyes
*' always fix'd upon tht Duke, having procur'd the
" Con-
of APPARITIONS. xtr
** Conference upon fomewhat he knew there was
*' of extraordinary.
" The Man told him, in his Return over the
'' Wacer, that when he mentioned thofe Particulars
*' which were to gain him Credit, (the Subftance
'' whereof he faid he durfl: not; impart unto him)
** the Duke's Colour chang'd, and he fwore he
" could come at that Knowledge only by the De^
''
1^/7, for that thofe Particulars were only knowa
'^ to himfelf and to one Perfon more, who he
^' was fure would never fpeak of it.
" The Duke purfu'd his Purpofc of Hunting,
^' but was obferved to ride all the Morning with
"•great Penfivenefs and in deep Thoughts, without
" any Delight in the Exercife he was upon 5 and
" before the Morning was fpent, left'the Field, and
^^ alighted at his Mother's Lodgings in IFbiieball^
" with whom he was ihut up for the Space of two
*' or three Hours j the Noife of their Difcourlc
" frequently reaching the Ears of thofe who at-
*' tended in the next Rooms. And when the Duke
" left her, bis Countenance appeared full ofTrouble,
" with a Mixture of Anger-, a Countenance that
" was never before obferved in him in any Con*-
*^ verfation with her, towards whom he had a pro-
*' found Reverences and the Countefs her felf (for
" though ihe was married to a private Gentleman,
" Sir Thomas Compton^ Ihe had been created Coun--
" tefs of Buckingham fhortly after her Son had firll
" alTumed that Title) was at the Duke's leaving
" her found over-whelm'd in Tears, and in the
" higheft Agony imaginable.
" Whatever there was of all this, it is no-
" torious Truth, that when the News of the
" Duke's Murther (Vhich happen'd within a few
^' Months after) was brought to his Mother, fhe
''
feem'd not in the leaft degree furprized, but re-
*' ceived it as if fhe had forefecn itj nor did after-
^' wards
88 The Hifiory and Reality
" wards exprefs fuch a degree of Sorrow as was
" expe6ted from fuch a Mother for the Lofs of
" fuch a Son.
Besides the above-named clafhing Circum-
ftances in the differing Relation of this Story, there
are one or two that are very material, as will ap-
pear by the following Remarks.
J. jIUBRET {2iys Mr. Towes, as he calls him,
went to the Duke, and told him the Token 5 not-
withftanding which, the Duke laugh'd at his Mef-
fage: whereas my Lord Clarendon tells juft the con-
trary, that the Duke gave him an open, tho' a very
particular Audience > all his Attendance keeping at a
diftance, and that he held him in that earneft Difcoujrfe
for an Hour.
2. jIUB RET (^ys^ the Token Sir G^^r^^ gave
to enforce or engage his Son's Attention, was, that
he (the Duke) had a Mole in fuch a private Part of
his Body 5 but my Lord fays, the Token given was
of fuch a Nature as the Duke fwore none but the
Z)m/and onePerfon in the World could know, and
that he was fure that one Perfon would not fpeak of
it 5 and that the Duke was extremely difturbed when
he heard of it.
N.B. FAME^ thd* with fome Privacy^ fays^
that the fecret 'token was an inceftuous Breach
of Modefiy between the Duke and a certain
Lady too nearly related to him^ which it fur'-
prized the Duke to hear of\ and that as he
• thought he had good Reafon to be fure the
Lady would not tell it of her felf^ fo he thought
none but the Devil could tell it bejides her > and
this aflonifhed hinty fo that he was very far
from receiving the Man Jlightly^ or laughing
at his Meffage.
What this Apparition then was, and from
ivhom, or from whence, remains to be decided. That
t^e thing was real, is too well attefted j it comes
loaded
of APP ARiriONS, 48p
loaded with fo many concurring Circumfiances,
and told in the hearing of fo many WitnefTes of
good Fame and Credir, that there is no Room
to queftion the Fad^ and as to the various Ways
of relating it, the Truth of the whole is not a-
bated by it at all : only as is natural to things of
this Nature which pafs thro' fo many Hands, eve-
ry one expreffing themfelves their own way, tho*
meaning the fame thing > they often vary at laft in
the very Subftance, by only varying at firft in the
Circumftances.
The Truth of the Matter is at laft, that the
Apparition foretold his Ruin, and it foon follow'd*
Now that this Apparition could not be the Devily
IS evident from the Reafons laid down before in
the like Cafes. How can we fuppofe the Devil
would be offended with the wicked Life and abo-
minable Pra61:ices of the Duke of Buckingham ac
Court? His inceftuous Lewdnefs, and whatever o-
ther fcandalous Pradtices he allowed himfelf in, the
Devil might, perhaps, encourage and prompt him
to, but he would never fend a MeiTengef to him
to warn him againft them, and to alarm him with
Apprehenfibns of Danger attending him if he did
not reform. This is none of the Devil's Bufinefs,
'tis quite foreign to him, 'twould be the weakeft
thing in the World to fuggeft it of him.
Again, if it were any thing immediately from Hea-
ven, it would have been effedual to have awaken*d
and reformed him: But as it might be a kind MefTen-
ger from another part of the invifible VVorld, where
his approaching Fate was known, and who having
given him this Notice, left his Reformation in his
own Power, and laid the Neceffity of it before the
Eyes of his Reafon, as well as of his Confcience,
and that after this his Fall was of himfelfj thi^
makes it all rational, and eafie to be underftood, and
is agreeable to the ordinary Cuftom of Providence
U in
^po The H'tfiory and Reality
in like Cafes, of which many Examples might be
given in the World.
Nor is it flrange, that the Apparition fhould
perfonate the old deceafed Father of the Duke, and
aflume his Shape, to add as it were a Solemnity to
the Meflage, and give it a greater Influence upon the
Mind of the Duke> and the fame Meflenger might
have afTumed any other Shape or Perfon if it had
thought fit, whether living or dead.
But if the Shape aflumed was the moft likely
to give Weight to the Errand it was to be fent a-
bout, we are not to wonder at all that a Spirit em-
ploy'd, or employing it felf on an Errand of fuch
Importance, fhould be able to fingle out fuch Ap-
pearances, or fuch Shapes and Perfons to appear in
the Figure of, as were apteft to enforce the Mef-
fage. Thewell-chufing the Perfon is to me a Tefti-
mony for, not againft the Goodnefs, the Judgment
and Capacity of the perfonating Spirit, and would
with juft reafoning confirm to us the validity of the
Meflage, and of the Mefl!engcr alfo.
And yet 'tis very reafonable to believe, that Sir
George Fillers^ thus feeming to appear, and whofe
Surface or Out-fide is put on like a Mafquerade
Habit upon this Occafion, knew nothing ofit, and had
no manner of concern in it. Nothing is more won-
derful in any part of the Story to me, than that
Men of Senfe and Learning, as fome fuch have been,
could be prevailed upon, or rather could prevail
upon themfelvcs, to publifli to the World fuch in-
congruous, fuch irrational things as thefej thata Man
dead, perhaps twenty Years before, I think it's fo
much at leaft 5 fliould appear, and fay, he could not
refl: in Peace for fuch and fuch things. And in ano-
ther of the fame Author's Stories, an Apparition is
broughi; in appearing to Dr. 7'urber'ville'*^ Sifl:er, be-
ing a Lady who was dead, and had left fome Chil-
dren to her Husband, which Children were injur'd
7 by
of APPAR IT IONS. 291
by a fecond Wife, contrary to the Settlement of
the firft Wife's Marriage > and this Settlement of the
firft Marriage was it feems hid behind the Wain-
fcot, in fuch and fuch a Place, which no body
knew of but the Children's Mother, that is to fay
the firfl: Wife. This Lady appeared to difcover
where this Writing lay, and tells the Perfon to
whom fhe difcover'd it, that 'till fhe had made this
Difcovery, ihe had wander'd in the Air, but that
now Ihe was going to God.
Strange! that Mr. Glanvil^ Auhrey^ and o-
thers, could publiih fuch a Story as this, without
feme jufl: Enquiries to reconcile it to common
Senfe, as well as to Religion \ as particularly how
long this Lady had been Dead 5 for it feems to have
been fome Years, the Husband being married again,
and the Children being in danger of being wrong'd
by the Children of the fecond Venter? Now, did
the Soul of the firft Lady wander all that while in
the Air, to fee whether there (hould be any oc-
cafion for her, to vindicate her Children's Right,
or no? did ihe ftay from going to God all that
while, only for difcovering a conceal'd Deed, thac
her Children might not be wrong'd? how fhall we
make fuch a thing out to be rational ? what No-
tions of Religion or of a future State will fup-
port it ?
Why did {he not immediately difcover where
the Deed, or Marriage Settlement lay, and put ic
into the Hands of fome honeft People, in Truft for
her Children ? and then fhe had not need to have
wander'd in the Air 'till it had been done.
They muft have very low-priz'd Thoughts of
Heaven, and of going to God, after the departing
or feparating of the Soul from the Body in Life,
who think the PafTage can be interrupted by any of
the Affairs of this Life left unfinifh'd. If even our
Repentance unfinifh'd, our Peace with God unfi-
U i niih'd,
2 91 The Hifiory and Reathy
nifh'd, can never be retreiv'd, if Time is not to be
recalled > but that as the "Tree falh^ fo it Jhall lie :
Shall we pretend the Soul fhall be Hopped and in-
terrupted in its PafTage, to retrieve the Injuftice and
Violence done to the Orphans, or Relicls of the
Family? fhall the Soul be brought back to find out
old hidden ParchmentS5or as it is pretended in other
like Stories, to dig up old long-buried Money, and
the like ?
No, noj thofe things fhould be done in time:
like Repentance, they ihould not be left to that
Hazard 5 for we may depend, there is no Work, or
Device, or Invention in the Grave, whither we are
all going.
That there are invifibe Agents, which in Pur-
fuance of the Government of Providence in the
World, may be made Inftruments, to aft in fuch
Cafes as thefe 5 to difcover Writings which being
conceal'd may ruin Families, rob and plunder Or-
phans, and diftrefs the right Heirs of Eftates, and
in many like Cafes, this need not bedeny'd, and is in-
deed not to be difputedj and 'tis a glorious Tefli-
mony to the Jullice of Providence, that in fuch
Cafes he does not abandon the Widows and the
Orphans, who for want of loft or conceal'd Deeds,
are fomeiimes in Danger of being undone, by Vio-
lence and Rapine. But all this is eafier to be un-
derftood to be done without Interruption of the
ordinary Courfe of Things, without obftrufting the
SouPs FalTage into irs determined flate of Happi-
nefs or Mifery 5 which it muft be the weakeft, and
indeed the wickedeft thing in the World, to think
can be diverted by thefe Trifles > and whofe di-
rect ProgrefHon is plainly ftated \n the Scripture in
thefe Words : It is appointed unto all Men once to die^
and after Death to Judgment y or immediately after
Death to Judgment, at leaft fo as nothing to prevent or
intervene 3 Heb, ix. Z7. It is a^^ointedy and furely
thefe
of AP? ARITIO N S. 2P3
tbefe things can never break in upon that folemn
Appointment:
Besides, 'tis an evident Impeachment of the
Power and Juftice, as well as the Wifdom of Pro-
vidence, in his Difpofition of things, as if he could
not find out Ways to do right to injur'd Orphans,
or to deted the Injuftice and Oppreflion of violenc
and unreafonable Men, but the Soul of the depart-
ed Mother muftjbe kept out of Heaven to do it her
felf. Horrid Abfurdity ! and inconfiftent with all
the Notions that true Religion has iafpir'dus with,
relating to a Future State, and to the Gulph that is
fix'd betwen this and that.
The Soul can no more be kept out from, or
delay'd its Entrance into Heaven, if its Portion be
appointed for Happinefs, by any Concern for the
Affairs of this World, than it can be difquieted af-
ter it is entered thofe Realms of Peace, and difturbed
or brought back from thence upon any Account
whatfoever.
The very thoughts of it are fo mean, fo low-
rated and bafe, that 'tis unworthy of our Rea-
fon, but efpecially of our Chriftian reafoning; Pow-
ers, to entertain them. I take this Abfurdicy in-
deed to be much of the Caufe of that juit Ridicule,
which the wifer Part of Mankind have put upon
moft of the Stories which are told among us about
Witchcraft and Apparitions 5 for that they are
told with fuch evident Inconfillences, that they
cannot go down with rational People: Who caa
believe what cannot be true? who can make a feri-
ous thing of a piece of ridiculous Nonfenfe ? That ^
a Soul difmifs'd from Life, and going diredly into
Heaven, {hall be call'd back by the Cry of the
Children after her, with a bold! ftay Mother! come
hack^ and come and tell us where the Writings are for
your Joynture^ or we jhall he undone? and the poor
Mother, Uncas'd, Unembodied, muft come back,
U }
difmift
2p4 ^^ Hlftory and Reality
difmlfs the Angels that were carrying her into^^^rjr
hanC^ Bofom, and bid them came for her another
time 5 and here fhe mud hover about we know not
how many Years, to do Right to thefe Children.
Sure the fame Power that could thus interrupt her
PafTage into Heaven, might have prevented her fe-
paratmg from the Body, and flic might with as
much cafe, and lefs injuftice to her felf, have been
kept out of the Grave, as kept out of Heaven.
But I am fick of the very Repetition > the De-
lufion is fo grofs, I fay it is not to be wondered
that we are fliock'd by it in our belief of the thing
caird Apparition in general. The ridiculous Part
difcredits the real Part, and it being fo fufeiting to
our Reafon to hear the firft Part, we throw off our
Patience, and will hear nothing at all of it.
I T is true we fliould not do thus 3 the Reality of
the Thing, abflra6ted from thefe diftrafted and en-
thufialiick Notions,is not leflen'd : 'tis our Bufinefs
then to reje6t the foolifli Part, which indeed has
almoft fmother'd and buried the reft in its Duft and
Rubbifli, and let us judge rightly of things as they
are. There is no want of Examples, where (Provi-
dence permitting) Apparition has made Difcove-
ries of villainous and difboneft A6rions and Defigns;
dete6ted Violence and Murther, done Right to in-
jured and opprefs'd Widows, and Fatherlefs Chil-
dren; and this without fuch a monftrousandincon-
fiftent Addition,as that of bringing back the Soul from
its Entrance into Heaven, or difturbing its Reft and
Peace in a future State : things too grofs to be fo
much as nam'd among Chriftians, whofe Faith in
things Future is too well eftablifh'd to be capable
of receiving any Impreflions from fiich Delufions.
I HAVE an Example in Siory very particular
to this Cafe ; and which my Author aftijres me of
the Truth of, tho' never yet publifti'd in Print;
The Story is told of the late Reverend Dr. Scot^ a
Man
Ta^. 2^/ ^/ '/^y/zr///" ./>//.>
of A P P ARITI N S. x^^
Man whofe Learning and Piety was eminent, and
whofe Judgment was known to be fo good, as noc
to be eafily impofed upon.
The Dodor, as I have the Story related, was
fitting alone by the Fire, either in his Study or
his Parlourjin Broadftreet where he liv'djand reading
a Book, his Door being ihut fail and lock'dihe was
well affiir'd there was no body in the Room but
himfelf, when accidentally railing his Head a little,
he was exceedingly furpriz'd to fee fitting in an
Elbow Chair, at the other fide of the Fire-place or
Chimney, an Antient grave Gentleman in a black
Velvet Gown, a long Whig, and looking with a
pleafing Countenance towards him {the Do^or) as
if juft going to fpeak.
N. B. Another Perf
on relating this Story^ fays
the Antient Gentleman appear"*d flanding^ and
having juft opened the Door of the Do^lofsi
Study^ he was come in y and faluting the DoEior
fpoke firft to him : hut the Difference is hut
fmall.
The Relations agree in this part,^ that the
Doftor was greatly furpri2,'datthe fight ofhim 5 and
indeed the feeing him as fitting in a Chair was the
moft likely to be furprizingj becaufe the Doftor
knowing the Door to be lock'd, and then feeing a
Man fitting in the Chair, he muft immediately and
at firft fight conclude him to be a Spirit, or Appa^
rition, or Z)m/, call it as you will j whereas fee-
ing him come in at the Door, he might at firft
fight fuppofe him to be really a Gentleman come to
fpeak with him, and might think he had omitted
faftning the Door, as he intended to have done.
But be it which of the two it will, the Do-
£tor appear'd in great diforder at the fight, as he
acknowledged to thofe to whom he told the Story,
and from whom I receiv'd this Account, with very
liulc remove of Hands between,
U4 Thi
1^6 The Hijlory and Reality
The Spe61:re it feems began, for the Do&or
had not Courage at firft, as he faid, to fpeak to it ^
I fay the Spedre or Apparition fpoke firft, and
de{ir*d the Dodor not to be frighted, not to be
furpriz'd, for that he would not do him any hurt j
but that he came to him upon a Matter of great
Importance to an injur'd Family, which was in
great danger of being Ruin'dj and that tho' he (the
jDo6bor) was a Stranger to the Family, yet know-
ing him to be a Man of Integrity, he had pitch'd
upon him to do an a6t of very great Charity, as
well as Jufticej and that he could depend upon him
for a pun6tual Performance.
The Do6bor was not at firft compos'd enough
to receive the Introdu6bion of the Bufinefs with a
due attention 5 but feem'd rather inclined to get
out of the Room if he could, and once or twice
made fome Attempt to knock for fome of the Fa-
mily to come up, at which the Apparition appeared
a little difpleas'd.
But it feems he need not> for, as' the Doftor
faid, he had no power to go out of the Room if
he had been next the Door, or to knock for Help
if any had been at hand.
But here the Apparition feeing the Do(5bor ftill
in Confufion, defir'd him again tocompofe himfelf,
for he would not do him the leaft Injury, or offer
any thing to make him uneafie 3 but delir'd that he
would give him leave to deliver the Bufinefs he
came about, which when he had heard, perhaps he
would iee lefs caufe to be furpriz'd or apprehenfive
than he did now.
By this time, and by the calm way of Difcouifc
above menrion'd, the Doctor recover'd himfelf fo
much, tho' not with any kind of Compofure, as to
fpeak.
I N the Name of God, fays the Doctorj what
grt thou ?
I
of APPARITIONS. 2.^7
I DESIRE you would not be frighted, /ays the
Apparition to him again > I am a Stranger to you,
and if I tell you my Name, you do not know it j
but you may do the Bufinefs without enquiring.
The Do6tor x:ontinu'd Hill difcompos'd and
uneafie, and faid nothing for fome time.
The Apparition fpokc again to him not to be
furpriz'd, and received only for Anfwer the old ig-
norant Qucftion,
I N the Name of God,what art thou ?
Upon this the Spe6tre feem'd difpleas'd, as if
the Do61:or had not treated him with Refpe6t; and
expollulated a little with him, telling him he could
have terrify'd him into a Compliance, but that he
chofe to come calmly and quietly to him 5 and ufed
fome other Difcourfes, fo civil and obliging, that by
this time he began to be a little more Familiar, and
at length the Dodor ask'd,
What is it you would have with me?
At this the Apparition, as if gratify'd with the
Queftion, began his Story thus.
I liv'd in the County of
/ do not exaUly remember the County he named 5
hut it was in fome of the IVefiern Counties of
England,
where I'leFt a very good Eftatc, which myGrand-
fon enjoys at this time. But he is fued for the Pof-
feffionby my two Nephews,che Sons of my younger
Brother.
N. B. Here he gave him his own Name^ the
Name of his younger Brother^ and the Names of
his two Nephews 5 hut I am mt allowed to
fuhlifh the Names in this Relation^ nor miglTt
it be proper for many Reafens.
Here the Do6lor interrupted, and ask'd him
how long the Grandfon had been in Pofleflion of
the Eftatej which he told him was • ^
Years,
intimating th^t he had been fo long dead.
^p8 The Hifiory and Reality
Then he went on, and told him, that his Ne^
phews would be too hard for his Grandfon in the
Suit, and would O U T him of the Manfion-Houfc
and Eftatcj fo that he would be in danger of being
entirely ruin'd, and his Family be reduc'd.
Still the Doftor could not fee into the Mat-
ter, or what he could do to help or remedy the
Evil that threatcn'd the Family 5 and therefore ask'd
him fome Queftions ; for now they began to be a
little better acquainted than at firfl.
S ATS the Do6lor^ And what am I able to do in
it, if the Law be againft him?
Why, fays the SpeEtre^ it is not that the Ne-
phews have any Right ; but the grand Deed of
Settlement, being the Conveyance of the Inheri-
tance, is loft 5 and for want of that Deed they will
not be able to make out their Title to the Eftate.
Well, fays the DoElor^ and ftill what can I
do in the Cafe?
Why, fays the SpeBre^ if you will go down to
my Grandfon's Houfe, and take fuch Perfons with
you as you can truft, I will give you fuch In-
ftru61:ions as that you ihall find out the Deed or
Settlement, which lies concealed in a Place where
I put it with my own Hands, and where you fhall
divc6i; my Graiidfon to take it out in your Pre-*
fence.
But why then can you not dired your Grand-
fon himfelf to do this? fays the Do^or.
Ask me not about that, fays the Appmtion\
there are divers Reafons which you may know
hereafter. I can depend upon your Honefty in it,
in the mean time 5 and I will fo difpofe Mat-
ters that you fhall, have your Expences paid you,
and be handfomely allow'd for your Trouble.
After this Difcourfe, and feveral other Ex-
poftulations, (for the Do£tor was not eafily prevail'd
upon to go 'till the Speclfe feem'd to look angrily,
and
of APP ARITIO NS. 25>9
and even to threaten him for jefufing,) he did at kft
Promife him to go.
Having obtain'd a Promife of him, he told
him he might let his Grandfon know that he had
formerly convers'd with his Grandfather, (but not
how lately, or in what Manner,) and ask to fee
the Houfej and that in fuch an upper Room or
Loft, he fhould find a great deal of old Lumber^
old Coffers, old Chcils, and fuch Things as were
out of Faihion now, thrown by, and pil'd up upon
one another, to make room for more modilli Fur-
niture, Cabinets, Chefts of Drawers, and the like.
That in fuch a particular Corner was fuch a
certain old Cheft, with an old broken Lock upon
it, and a Key init,which could neither be turn'd in
the Lock, or pull'd out of ir.
N. B. Here he ga^ve him a partiailar Defcription.
of the Chefts and of the Outftde^ the Lock and
the Cover^ and alfo of the hzfide^ and of a prl-^
'vate place in itj which no Man could come to^
or find outJ
unlefs the whole Chefi was pulVd in
Pieces.
In that Cheft, fays he^ and in that place, Vjt^
the grand Deed, or Charter of the Eilate, which
conveys the Inheritance, and without which the
Family will be ruin'd, and turn'd out of Doors.
After this Difcourfe, and the Do6i:or pro-
mi fing to go down into the Country and difpatch
this important Commiffion j the Apparition putting
on a verypleafint and fmiUng Afped, thank'd him,
and difappear'd.
After fome Days, and within the time limit-
ed by the Propofal of the Spe6bre, the Dodtor
went dov^n accordingly into -foire 3 and find-
ing the Gentleman's Houfe very readily, by the
Dire6tion, knock'd at the Door, and ask'd if he
was at home; and after being told he was, and the
§eryants telling their Mailer it v/as a Clergyman, the
^ Gentleman
300 The Hijlory and Reality
Gentleman came to the Door, and very courteoufly
invited him in.
After the Do6tor had been there fome time,
lie obferv'd the Gentleman received him with an
unexpefted Civility, tho' a Stranger, and without
Bufinefs : They entered into many friendly Difcour-
fes, and the Do6tor pretended to have heard much
of the Family, (as, indeed, he had) and of hi
Grandfather i from whom, Sir, fays he^ 1 perceive
the Eftate more immediately defcends to yourfelf.
A Y, fays the Gentleman^ and fhook his Head, my
Father died young, and my Grandfather has left:
Things fo confus'd, that for want of one princi-
pal Writing, which is not yet come to Hand, I
have met with a great deal of trouble from a
couple of Coufins, my Grandfathers Brother's
Children, who have put me to a great deal of
Charge about it. And with that the Doftor feem-
ing a little inquifitivc.
But I hope you have got over it, Sir? fays he.
No truly, fays the Gentleman^ to be fo open with
you, we fhall never get quite over it unlefs wc
can find this old Deedj which, however, I hope
we fhall find, for I intend to make a general Search
for it.
I WISH with all my Heart you may find ir,
Sir, fays the Do^or.
I don't doubt but I {hall 5 I had a ftrangc
Dream about it but laft Night, fays the Gentle--
man,
A Dream about the Writing! fays the DoUor^
I hope it was that you fhould find it then ?
I D R E A M ' D, fays the Gentleman^ that a flrangc
Gentleman came to me, that I had never fcen in
my Life, and help'd me to look it. 1 don't know
but you may be the Man.
I SHOULD be very glad to be the Man, I am
fare, fays the Do^oy^
Nay,
of APPARITIONS. 301
Nay, fays the Gentleman^ you may be the Man
to help me look it.
A y, Sir, fays the DoBor^ I may help you look
it indeed, and I'll do that coo with all my Heart;
but I wou'd much rather be the Man that fhould
help you find it : Pray when do you intend to
make a fearch ?
T o - M o R R o w, fays the Gentleman^ I had ap-
pointed to do it.
But, fays the DoUor^ in what manner do you
intend to fearch?
WH Y, fays the Gentleman^ 'tis all our Opinions
that my Grandfather was fo very much concerned
to prefei*ve this Writing, and had fo much Jealou-
fy that fome that were about him would take it
from him if they could, that he has hid it in fome
fecret Place 5 and I'm refolv'd I'll pull half the
Houfe down but I'll find it, if it be above Ground,
Truly, fays the Do^ior^ he may have hid ic
fo, that you mult pull the Houfe down before you
find it, and perhaps not then either, I have known
fuch things utterly loft, by the very Care taken to
preferve them.
I F it was made of fomething the Fire wou'd not '
deftroy, fays the Gentleman^ I'd burn the Houfe
down but I'd find it.
I SUPPOSE you have fearch'd all the old Gen-
tleman's Cheils, and Trunks, and Coffers over and
over ^ fays the DoBor.
Ay, fays the Gentleman^ and turn'd them all in-
fide outward, and there they lie of a heap up in
a great Loft, or Garret, with nothing in them ;
nay, we knock'd three or four of them in Pieces
to fearch for private Drawers, and then I burnt
them for Anger, tho' they were fine old Cyprefs
Chefts, that coil Money enough when they were
in Fafiiion.
1
' M forry you burnt them, fays the BoEior.
Nay,
501 "the Hlftory and Reality
Nay, fays the Gentleman^ I did not burn a fmp
of them 'till they were all fplit to Pieces j and ic
was not poflible there cou'd be any thing there.
N. B. ^his made the Doctor a little eafy-y for he
began to be furpriz'd when he told him he had
fplit fome of them out^ and burnt them.
Well, Sir.^
fays the Do€tor^ if I can do you
any Service in your Search, I'll come and fee you
again to-morrow, and wait upon your Search with
my good Wiihes.
Nay, fays the Gentleman^ I don't defign to part
with you 5 fince you are fo kind to offer me your
Help, you Ihall flay all Night then, and be at the
fiYi\ of it.
The Do(5tor had now gain'd his Point fo far
as to make himfelf acquainted and defirable in the
Houfe, and to have a kind of Intimacy j fo that
tho' he made as if he would go, he did not want
much Encreaties to make him fl:ayj fo he confented
to he in the Houfe all Night.
A LITTLE before Evening the Gentleman ask'd
him to take a Walk in his Park, but he put it off
with a Jeft; I had rather. Sir, faid he fmiling^
you'd let me fee this fine old Manfion Houfe that
is to be demolifh'd to-morrow 5 methinks I'd fain
fee the Houfe once, before you pull ic down.
With all my Heart, fays the Gentleman. So he
carry'd him immediately up Stairs, fhew'd him all
the beft Apartments, and all his fine Furniture and
Piduresj and coming to the Head of the great
Stair-Cafe where they came up, offer'd to go down
again.
But, Sir, fays the Do6lor^ fhall we not go up
higher?
There's nothing there, fays he^ but Garrets
and old Lofts full of Rubbifh, and a Place to go
out into the Turret, and the Clock-houfe,
O
$f APPARITION S. 303
O, LET me fee it all, now we are a going, fays
the Doctor. I love to fee the old lofty Towers and
Turrets, the Magnificence of our Anceitors, tho'
they are out of Fafhion nowj Pray let us fee all,
flow we are going.
Why, it will tire yon, fays the Gentleman,
No, nof fays the Do^or^ if it don't tire you that
have feen it fo often, it won't tire me, I aflure
you: Pray let us go up. So away the Gentleman
goes, and the Dodor after him.
After they had rambled over the wild Part
of an old-built great Houfe, which I need not de-
fcribe, he palTcs by a great Room, the Door of
which was open, and in it a great deal of old Lum-
ber: And what Place is this, pray? y^^j ths DoSiofj
looking in at the Door, but not offering to go
in.
O ! T H A t's the Room, fays the Gentleman foftJy^
hecaufe there was a Servant attending them^ that's the
Room I told you of, where all the old Rubbifli
jay, the Chefls, the Coffers, and the Trunks 5 look
there, fee how they are pil'd up upon one ano-
ther almoft to the Ceiling.
With this the Doftor goes in and looks about
him 5 for this was the Place he was dire6bed to,
and which he wanted to fee: He was not in the
Room two Minutes but he found every thing juil
as the Spedre at London had defcrib'd, went di-
reftly to the Pile he had been told of, and fixes
his Eye upon the very Cheft with the old rufty
Lock upon it, with the Key in it, which would
neither turn round, nor come out.
O N my Word, Sir, fays the Do^or^ you have
taken Pains enough, if you have rumag'd all thefe
Drawers, and Chefls, and Coffers, and every thing
that may have been in them.
Indeed, Sir, fays the Gentleman^ I have emptied
every one of them myfelf, and look'd over all the
old
2 04 ^^ Hijiory and Reality
old mufty Writings one by onej with fome help^
indeed i but they, every one, pall thro' my own
Hand, and under my Eye.
Well, Sir, fays the Do6lor^ I fee you have been
in earnefl, and I find the thing is of great Con-
fequence to you : I have a llrange Fancy come in-
to my Head this very Moment 5 will you gratify
my Curiofity with but opening and emptying one
fmall Chefl or Coffer that I have caft my Eye up-
on ? there may be nothing in it, for you are fatis-
fy'd, 1 believe, that I was never here before j but
1 have a ftrange Notion that there are fome pri-
vate Places in it which you have not found > per-
haps there may be nothing in them, when they arc
found.
The Gentleman looks at the Cheft fmiling, I
remember opening it very well j and turning to his
Servant, W^ill^ fays he^ don't you remember that
Cheft? Yes, Sir, fays Will^ very well, I remember
you were fo weary you fat down upon the Chefl
when every thing was out of it, you clap'd down
the Lid and fat down, and fent me to my Lady
to bring you a Dram of Citron j you faid you were
fo tir'd you was ready to faint.
Well, Sir, 'twas only a Fancy of mine, and
very likely to have nothing in it.
'T I s no matter for that, fays the Gentleman^ you
fhall fee it turn'd bottom up again before your
Face, and fo you ihall all the reit, if you do but
fpeak the Word.
Well, %\x^ fays the Do6ior^ if you will oblige
me but with that one. Til trouble you no far-
ther.
Immediately the Gentleman caufes the
Coffer to be drag'd out, and open'd j for it would
not be lock'd, the Key would neither lock it nor
unlock it: when the Papers were all out, the Do-
dor turning hi§ Face another way, as if he would
look
of APPARITIONS. 30J
Jook among the Papers, but taking little or no
Notice of the Cheft, lloop'd down, and as if fup-
porting himfelf with his Cane, chops his Cane in-
to the Cheft, but fnatcht it out again haftily, as
if it had been a Miftake, and turning to the Cheft
he claps the Lid of it down, and fits down upon
it, as if he was a weary too.
However he takes an Opportunity to fpeafc
to the Gentleman fofcly, to fend away his Man a
Moment 5 for I wou'd fpeak a Word or two with
you. Sir, fays he^ out of his hearing 5 and then re-
collecting himfelf, Sir, fays he aloud^ can you not
fend for a Hammer and a Chifel?
Yes, Sir, fays the Gentleman, Qo^ IVill^ fays hs
to his Man^ fetch a Hammer and Chifel.
A s foon as TVill was gone. Now, Sir, fays he^
let me fay a bold Word to you ; I have found your
Writings I have found your Grand Deed of Set*
dement j I'll lay you a hundred Guineas I have ic
in this Coffer?
The Gentleman takes up the Lid again, han-
dles the Cheft, looks over every Part of it, but
could fee nothing j he is confounded and amaz'd
!
What d'ye mean ? fays he to the Dodior^ you have
no unufual Art I hope, no Conjuring in handj
here's nothing but an empty Coffer?
N o T I upon my Word, fays the Do^oVy I am
no Magician^ no Cunning-Man^ I abhor icj but I
tell you again the Writing is in this Coffer.
The Gentleman knocks, and calls as if he was
frighted, for his Man with the Hammer, but the
Do6tor fat compos'd again upon the Lid of the
Coffer.
At laft up comes the Man with the Hammer
and Chifel, and the Do&or goes to work with
the Cheft, knocks upon the flat of the Bortomj
Hark I fays he, don^t you hear it^ Sir^ fays he, don't
you hear it plainly ?
X Hear
^o6 The Hijlory and Reality
Hear what? fays the Gentleman. I don't under-
ftand you, indeed.
Why the Cheft has a double Bottom, Sir, a
falfe Bottom, y^j'j/^^Z)o(^(?r J don't you hear it found
hollow?
In a Word, they immediately fplit the inner
Bottom open, and there lay the Parchment fpread -
abroad flat on the whole breadth of the Bottom
of the Trunk, as a Quire of Paper is laid on the
flat of a Drawer.
I T is impoffible for mc to defcribe the Joy and
Surp'ize of the Gentleman, and foon after of the
whole Family 5 for the Gentleman fent for his La-
dy, and two of his Daughters, up into the Garret
among all the Rubbifh, to fee not the Writing
only, but the Place where it was found, and the
Manner how.
\ You may eafily fuppofe the Do6tor was carefs'd
Avith uncommon Civilities in the Family, and fent
up (after about a Week's ftay) in the Gentleman's
own Coach to London. I do not remember whe-
ther he difclos'd the Secret to the Gentleman, or
no 5 1 mean the Secret of the Apparition, by which
the Place where the Writing was to be found, was
difcovcr'd to him, and who oblig'd him to come
down on purpofe to find it : I fay, I do not remem-
ber that Part, neither is it material. As far as I
had the Story related, fo far I have handed it for-
ward 5 and 1 have the truth of it affirmed in fuch
a manner, as I cannot doubt it.
Now to obferve a little upon this PafTage,
which I am oblig'd to fay is reported to me for Truth,
and I firmly believe it to be fo: Certain it is, that
finding this Writing was of the utmolt Importance
to the Family 5 and tho' I am not indeed inclin'd
to publifh Names to the Story, or to examine in-
to the Particulars, bydifcourfing with the Perfons,
for fome may be yet Living, yet I fay the Efta-
bhfhment
of APPARITIONS. 307
bliflimenc of not a Family only, but a Generation
of Families, might depend upon this Writing, and
that no doubt made the antient Gentleman lay ic
up fo fafe. But why then might not Providence
permit, nay even dire6t one of thofe Intelligent Spi-
rits or Angels, menrion'd above, to give this Notice,
and in this manner, where the main and only Deed or
Charter for the Inheritance was to be found? as
well as it has upon many like Occafions, or in Ca-
fes alike in their Importance, made ftrange and
unaccountable Difcoveries of Things hid for many
Ages J and this without Apparition, but by a ma-
nifeft concurrence of Caufes and Accidents next to
Miracles.
{ CANNOT think but that Providence, whofe
Concern for the good and fafety of his Creatures
is fo Univerlal, and who ic muft be acknowledg*d
is not unconcerned even in the minuteft Circum-
llanccs, may think meet to bring fuch a thing as
this to Light, upon which the good and welfare
of a whole Family did ^o much depend ; and even
to appear in an extraordinary Manner in it, without
any Impeachment of its Wifiom or its Power 5 and
if the fame Providence that thought fit to fave
this Family from fo much Injullice as at that time
threatened it, thought fit to do it, by the Agency
of a Spirit coming in Apparition to a third Per-
fon, fo to bring it about as in the ordinary Me-
thod, what have we to do to difpute the man-
ner ? or what jufl Objedion lies againft it?
Upon the whole, here's no Devil h^xc^ no ima-
ginary Phantoms in the Air, no Voices and Noifes
delufive and impofing upon the Fancy one way or
other} no Soul appearing, and pretending it can^*
not be at reft^ and yet here is an Apparition di-
recting to find out what was in Being, and was to
be found, and what Jullice required fhould be
produe'd.
,
X i Nor
30
8
The Hijiory and Reality
Nor could this be the Devil: that wicked A-
gent goes up and down upon a much worfe Em-
ployment. He is bufy enough, that's true j but 'tis
wid'ning breaches in Families, not healing them 5 in
prompting Mifchief, not preventing it 5 tempting
Man to Robbery, to Whoredom, to Murther 5 not
moving them to repent. As is the Errand, fuch is
the Meflengerj as is the Work, fuch is the La-
bourer 5 and the way of judging is as juft as it is
certain, 'tis eafy and plain, we cannot fail to know
who and who's together.
*Tis the fame in our moft retir'd Thoughts 5
we may very well know who talks to us, by the
Difcourfe, who tempts us, by the Mifchief he
tempts to. My good, wicked, pious, hellifh
Friend and old Acquaintance Z G muft
never tell m§, that he does not know by whofe Di-
a'c6tion h&tranfadsjand who he converfes with,when
lie is bid to break Oaths and Promifes under the
cover of Confcience^ when he aflaults Innocence by
Clamour, and leviesWar by Slander, againft Reputati-
on and Virtue on pretence of Zeal to Truth > black-
ning Chara£ters in pretence of giving the Innocent
Perfon opportunity to clear himfelfj I fay he muft
not do this without knowing from whence he de-
rives the extraordinary Motion to it, what Spirit
prompts, and from whofe diftates he takes the Di-
re£tion.
WH E Isr he daubs on purpofe to wafli, and ful-
lies with intention to clean the Faces of his Inno-
cent Neighbours, he knows as well as I, he is
aduated from Hell, and agitated ab Inferis 3 becaufe he
knows that all Hypocrify is from the Devil -y and
as he knows himfelf to be a moft accompliih'd
Cheat, even from the outfidc of his Face to the
iniide of his Soul, he may fing after my Lord of
Rochejler in his Sarcafm upon a much honefter
Man,
of APPARITIONS. jop
Hefaid^ O Lord, O Lord of Hofts^
I am a Ra--—^4 that thou know^ft*
'Tis a ftrange Hypothefis, that a late Vifionift
in thofe pieces of fecret Hiilory attack'd me with
t'other Day, viz. That he would undertake to
prove from the late Reverend and Learned (but to
himfelf unintelligible) Jacob Behemcn^ that a Man's
Soul was capable of comprehending God, Futu^
rity.^ Eternity.^ and all occult and retir'd things of
the utmofl importance, but it felfj but that, for
divers wife Reafons, the light of felf- knowledge
was hid from his Eyes ; except by immediate Re-
velation 5 which immediate Revelation Friend Ja--
cob pretended to have attained, only with this un-^
happy difafter attending it, viz. That he could ne-
ver exprefs himfelf, no not to his own Underftand-
ingj fo that indeed he underftood this only, name-
ly, that he could not underftand what he did un-
derftand.
N o w to leave Friend Jacob to his own Qiiib-
bles, and to his three and twenty Parenthelis, like
a nefb of Boxes one within another, and never to
be prolatedj 'tis my Opinion, that if Mankind
will be faithful to themfelvcs, they may always
know themfelvesj that Friend •
G——— not
only always has the Devil in him, biit always
knows it J as it is certain, that he that wilfully
Lyes and Cheats always knows that he Lyes and
Cheats 5 fo it is impoffible T— E— fhould be a
compleat Rogue, and not know it 5 he may be in*
deed not able to know how much a Rogue he is,
'till the Devil and he have drawn out the Thread to
its full length, and tried him efFedually, fearch'd
him to the bottom, and feen whether he will flop
at arty thing or no 5 and what the wicked thing
can be that is too grofs for him. But he cannot bt
X 3
Ignoraiic
3io The Hiftory and Reality
ignorant of himfelf in the main 5 he cannot be fo
blind to his own Infide, as not to know that he is
an Original Knave 5 that he has broken in upon
Principles, berray/d Truft, cheated Orphans, abus'd
Widows, fold Friendfhip 5 and a thoufand fuch
things as thefe already 5 and that he has nothing
for it, but to put as good an Outfide upon it as he
can, to have the Face of an honeft Man upon the
Heart of a Hypocrite, and to be fure to be a Cheat
to the World, to the end of the Chapter.
Indeed it might not have been improper to
have reprefented thofe two worthy Gentlemen as
Apparitions, for that they are fach is a mod im-
proving Trurh, and what it may be much for the
Service of the VVorld to have publickly known :
But as we arc now fpeaking of Apparitions which
reprcfent Men and things as ihey really are, it
feems firfl needful to bring their infides to be their
outlides, and then the World may know them by
their ihadows as well as by their fabflancci and for
this 1 doubt w€ muil wait a while, the Iflue of an
Affixes or two •, for certainly, if Juftice takes place,,
they may both be heard of at the Gallows.
Rut to bring it home to the prefent purpofe, I
infill that no Man can be deceiv'd in himfelf j he
may know whether he is a Knave or an honeft
M?Ln, whether he is a Sub (lance, or an Apparition,
whether he be a Reality or aShadov7 j and that 7^*
ioh Behemen advanc'd only a Delufion proper for a
Knave, pretending that a Man might be honefl
when he believ'd himfelf to be a Knave, and be
a Knave when he thought himfelf honeft.
But to return to the Affair of the Writing
iouiid in the Cheft, and which, according to the
Notion which fome have of thefe things, the Soul
oftheantient Gentlemen above came in Apparition to
difcoverv our Queftion is firft How did he come to
know in his determin'd Scate^ his State of Soul-
Exiftence,
of APPARITIONS, 3it
Exigence, be that where it would, I (ay. How
did he come to know, that the Writing Was noc
difcover'd, and that his Grandfon was in danger
of coming to any injury about it ? How did he
know that the LaW-Suit was commenced, the thing
profecuted fo far, and the damage like to be fufFer'd
fo very much ?
H E might know where it was, if not found >
becaufe he hid it there, becaufe he laid it up with
fo much care j but he could not know what Cir-
cumftance had been attending the cafe fince that
time, what proceedings had been at Law, and how
things flood with the Family j \^ he could, then
the Text quoted before out of Job cannot be true,
that the Son rifeth and falkth^ and the Father knoivetb
it not.
'Tis obfervable that this Apparition^which came
to Do6l:or Scot^ did not alledge that he couU noc
reft *till this matter was difcover'd > he feem'd con*
cern'd that the Family would be uneafy, and that
they were fo> and that there was great danger,
they might loie the Eftatej but did not pretend he
could not reft in Peace, or as the other, that he
could not go to Heaven 'till it was difcoverM.
I GANNOT but wonder a little at the Ignorance
of the Ancients, in that Notion of the Soul's wan-
dring in the Air all the while the Body was with-
out a Funeral Obfequy 5 for according to their Do-
ctrine, thofe Souls who had no fuch Funeral Pyre
prepared for them, muft have been wandring in the
Air to this Day, and will be fo for ever 5 not be-
ing able to get admittance either in one place or
other.
N o wonder the Air is faid to be fo filPd with
wandring Spirits, with Demons and Ghofts, as
fome are of the Opinion it is 3 for where muft all
the Millions of Spirits be gone, who have lain
without Burial, or been caft into the Sea, or been
X 4 over-
312 Tht Hijlory and Reality
overwhelmed with Earthquakes and Storms, or died
by Plagues, where the living have nor been fuffici-
ent to bury the dead?- and the hke in many publick
Calamities.
I KNOW the i?(?;«^;^ Catholicks have a way of
performing a Service for the dead by Thoufands j \
and in particular for the Souls of the dead, flain in
fuch and fuch a Battel: whether that has any relati-
on to this old Pagan Notion, or not, I will not fay.
I know Popery has pretty much of the Pagan in
their Original, I mean of their Worfhip > but will
faying one Service for the dead anfwer the End,
whether they have any Burial or no, and tho' their
Bodies arc left, as Achilles fays of HeUer^ for greedy
or hungry Dogs to rend ? This they do not anfwer,
and I doubt cannot > fo that perhaps all thofe Souls
kiird in fight arc wandring ftill in the Air, and can-
not have admittance, no not to the Shades below.
On the other hand, if the poor Soldiers be-
liev'd, that if they were kilPd in fight, they were
to wander for ever, and not be pray'd out of Pur-
gatory j nay, not be admitted into itj few of them
but would chufe to be hang'd, provided they
might be admitted to be bury'd under the Gallows,
rather than go to the War and die in the Bed of
Honour.
They tell us (who pretend to knowj that the
Corps of the dcceas'd Princes of France^ as well
Kings as Princes of the Blood, are not buried, but
depofited in the Abbey of St. Dennis near Paris^
'till the immediate SuccefTor is Dead 5 and that
then the PredecefTor is buried, and the next is de-
pofited 5 fo that there is always one kept above
Ground.
I D o not take upon me to determine the Matter,
or to fay whether it is really fo or not : But if io^
and it fhould be as in the cafe of Patrodus^ that
thofe Heroes are then to be out of the happy Re-
gionsj
of APPARITIO NS. 315
gions, I muft fay their Kings are but little behold-
en to that Cuftom, and Lewis XIII had a hard
time of it, to have his Son hold it 70 Years, and
keep him all that while even out of Purgatory 5 and
how long he has to flay there, who knows ? but
'tis certain, he might have been 40 or fo Years
onward of his way by this time, if he had not been
fo many Years unburied.
But enough ofthis Pagan and Popifh Frippery:
our bufinefs is to talk to the more rational World j
their Fate is before them 5 all Men die, and after
Death to Judgment, nothing can interrupt it, and
what their Sons door fufFer behind them they know
not.
CHAP. xm.
Of the Confequeuee ofthis DoBrine ; andfee-
ing that Apparitions are real^ and maybe ex-
pected upon many Occafions^ and that we are
fure they are not the Souls of our departed
Friends ; how are we to a£i^ and how to
behave to them^ when they come among us^
and when they pretend to be fich and fuch^
and fpeak in the fir
f "^erfon ofthofe depart-
ed Friends^ as if they were really them-
felves ?
*
AVING thus fettled the main point, anddc-
termin'd what Apparition is not 3 namely, not
an Angel immediately from Heaven; not a return'd
unembodied Soul; and having advanced, inEflay at
leaft, what we are to fuppofe them to be ; namely,
a good or evil Spirit from the Inviflble World ;
and having fettled the Rule of judging whether of
the
314 ^^ Hijiory af^d Reality
the two, whether a good or an evil, according to
the apparent good or evil of their Defignj it h
time now to bring the matter into Praftice 5 to fet-
tle the grand Preliminary, and determine, fince this
is their Behaviour to us, how we are to behave to
them.
Nor is this a needlefs Enquiry, for we find the
World at a great lofs on fuch Occafions. Men are
exceedingly terrified and difcorded upon the very
Apprehenfions of feeing any thing as they call it
from the Invifible World > even the great King
Beljhazzar^ tho' in the midft of his whole Court,
the Lords of 1 17 Provinces, a full Afiembly of La-
dies and Courtiers j yet when he faw but a piece of
an Apparition, (for it was but one Hand) yet his
Countenance chan^d<i and the joynts of his Knees were
loofedy and his Knees fmote one againft another^ Dan.
V. 6. Charles VI H of France was not frighted
only, but frighted out of his Wits, with an .Appa-
rition in the Foreft of Mans^ and never recovered
his Senfes any more > and we have feveral inftances
in Story, of Men, even of the greateft Refolution,
who have loft all their Courage, and all their Re-
folution, when they have had but a fhort Vifit of
this kind, tho' without receiving any injury from
them.
But whence is it, that the Mind is thus fur-
priz'd? why is our Averfion fo great to any ap-
pearance from the other World, without fo much
as enquiring into the Particulars ?
There are many Reafons indeed to be aflign'd
to prove why it isfo-y but not one good Reafon
that I know of to prove // jhould befo^ or that we
" have any Occafion to be fo alarm'd and difturb'd ac
thefe Appearances i I mean, when the Mind has any
degree of Compofure; It is true, they come from
an Invifible Place, and that is one of the Reafons
of our fright 5 becaufe, as we fay, we know not
whence
of APPARITIO NS. ,3iy
whence they are, of what Errand they come, with
what CommifEon, and with what Power to execute
that Commiffioniall thefe uncertainties bring aTer-
ror upon the Spirits 5 the Soul receives afhockj the
Man is like one of thofe poor People where they
are in an Earthquake, they fee the Buildings totter
and fall before themjand tho' they are not bury'd in
the Ruins, but are perhaps efcap'd out into the Fields 5
yet they feel the Earth roll and move under them,
and they arc doubtful and apprehcnfive left they
may be fwallowed up every Moment > and, accord-
ing to the old Poet, it is Matter of real Terror j
^' Fear chills the Hearty what Heart can Fear dif-
femhle^
" When Steeples ftagger^ and when Mountains trem"
hie ?
This uncertainty of the Mind in the cafe of
Apparitions, is the real ground of Fears (ij/s:.) that
we know not
^ Whence their Errand comes,
What Commiflion they have,
What Power to execute the Commiflion.
FIRST^ We don't know whence they are, and
from whom their Errand, nor indeed can we be
caGe in the uncertainty: The reafon is, there is a
fecret doubt ofthe Mind, founded upon Guilt : Here
the Atheift bauks his aflurance, and tho' he pretends
to believe neither God or Z)^^/,daggers ata Meflen-
ger that comes for ought he knows from one or
both of them, to convince him by immediate dt'^
monftration. Here his Heart fails him, he turns
pale, ftarts at the fight, and would be glad to be
afilir'd there were really both, that one might pro-
tect him from the other.
While he knows not whether the MefTagc
comes from Heaven or Hellj whether the MefTen^
^ 1 6 The Hijiory and Reality
ger may be Angel or Devil^ the uncertainty attend-
ed with the real Danger of the vvorft, leaves him
in Horror, and he fears Hell becaufe he knows he
has provok'd Heaven, he fears the Devil becaufe he
knows he that can command the Devil is his E-
nemy.
I N a Word, a fenfe of God makes men afraid of
the Devil^ as they fiy fear of the Devil gives a
fenfe of Homage to God.
SECONDLY, We tremble at the MefTcn-
fer,
becaufe we don't know what his Meflagemay
e J we dread the Officer, becaufe we dread his
Commiffion > we are afraid of what he has to fay 5
we know we have no reafon. to expe6b good
News from the place, which we fuppofe he comes
from, and therefore we turn pale at his coming,
nor is it poilible to be other wile.
There are but two Principles that fortifie the
Mind againft the Fears of a future State, no not
that feemingly fi:>rtifie it j and thefe are,
I. Innocence, or a good Heart founded in
Religion, Virtue, and an exad reftitude of beha-
viour. OR,
z. Impudence, a harden'd {hutting the
Eyes againft Conviftion, and ihe Ears againft Con-
icience.
It is with fome Perplexity that I found my
felf oblig'd to give a Charader in another place
of a fam'd Man of pretended Brightnefs and Wit :
He was always merry, a conftant Smile fat upon his
Countenance, a perfeft eafinefs poflefs'd his Mind,
he knew not a Moment of Melancholly or Cha-
grin. He never figh'd, becaufe he feldom pray'd or
griev'd , I wifli I could have faid, becaufe he ne-
ver finn'd. His Heart was light as his Head 5 and as
for his Heels, he always walk'd in Minuit and Ri-
gadoons. His Mirth was as uninterrupted as his
Breath, and helaugh'd by the Confequence of Re-
fpiration y
of JP P/iRITlON.?. fi^
piration; his Voice was a natural Mufic, and his
Rhetoric was all Sonnet and Solfa's.
Sure, faid I, my Coufm M^ ^- ^"^
have the clearefl: Confcience in the Univerfe, he
has not the lead Scar upon his Inlide jand ifhe was
to fee the DeviIj he could not change Colour, or
have the lead Hefication at the moft frightful Ap-
pearance: He mud be all Innocence and Virtue.
Did the leaft Spt upon his Soul appear^
It could not he : his Confcience muft he clear
:
For where there's Guilty there always would he Fear.
'
But I miftook my Kinfman mod extremely, for
on the contrary, his Soul is blacker than Negro
Sanchojthe Beauty of J^frica 5 he boads himfelf ofthe
mod harden'd Crime, defies Heaven, defpifes Ter-
ror, and is got above Fear by the meer force of a
flagrant AfTurance.
He would no more value feeing the Devil in his
mod fiery formidable Appearance, than he would
to fee a dorm of Fire in the T'empeft^ or a Harle-
quin Diahle in Fre/coy if you will take his Charafter
from himfelf, he has no more fear about him, than
he has Confcience, and that's fo little, 'tis not worth
naming. He knows no Sorrow, no Chagrin > he
was born Laughing, and intends to die Jeding : and
what is all this founded upon? not glorious Inno-
cence mention'd above, but notorious Impudence.
It's true indeed, I had not car'd to fpeak fo
grofly of one of my near Relations, but he will
have it be fo> he fpeaks it of himfelf, bids me take
notice of it, that 'tis the Charafter he gives me of
himfelf, and d s me with a full Stream of Bil*
linfgate^x^ I dare to give any other Cbarafter of hira^
than what he gives of himfelf.
I MUST acknowledge I did believe ihe Devil
and my Coufin were not much at Strife, that he did
not
3i8 The Hijiory and Reality
not fear the old Dragon, becaufe he had never done
any thing to difoblige him \ but it feems the Cafe
differs, and he defies the Z)^w7 purely upon the fame
foot that he defies him that made the Devil s and
ads the Fury meerly as a Fury, not as a Man of
Senfe or as a Man of Courage.
All that I have to fay to this, is, that this will
laft jufl 'till the Rage is abated, and no longer j 'till
the Blood cools, and the Spirits return to their na-
tural Courfe, and then the Wretch will be as cold
as now he is hot, as calm as now he is outragious,
and as bafe and low-fpirited as now he is fiery and
furious.
All the hot-headed Courage of thefe Men, is
only a Flafh, a Meteor in the Air 5 when they are
cool'd, when the Exhalation is fpent, they are as
phlegmatic as other People} and then they look
pale, the Countenance changes, and the Knees
knock one againft another, as v/ell as other People's.
T H E R e's no fcorning the Terrors of a Meflen-
ger from the other World, but by a fettled efta-
blifhed Compofure of the Soul \ founded on theBa-
fis of Peace within, Peace of Confciencc, Peace
and Innocence, or Peace and Penitence, which is
in effeft all one: This is the only Face that a Man
can hold up to the Devil 5 with a clean Heart, he
may boldly fee the Devil^ talk to him, defpife him,
and tell him he fcorns him, for that he has nothing
at all to do with him.
But this is not our prefent Condition; few Peo-
ple wear this Armour in our days \ they neither va-
lue it or know the ufe of it, and therefore 'tis that
we are fo full of Terror and Difturbance when we
fee the Devil % at lead if we think he has any thing
to fay to us.
But now for the great Queftion, Why it fliould
be fo ? as 1 faid, 'tis Truth too evident that it is fo,
but
of APPARITIONS. 319
but to fay that it Jhould he fo^ that requires another
kind of Sophiftry to make out.
I T is true, it requires a great deal of Courage,
and of cool Courage too, in bearing up the Soul
againft the Surprize of fuch things as thefe j a Man
muft be able to talk to the Devil in aDiale^l: which
he (ly^^^/^J himfelf does not very well underftand,
to bid him be gone, to bid him Get thee behind me^
and the like-, 'tis an authoritative way of talking
that every one cannot fupport j and if the Devil is
fenfible of it, he will not fail to exert himfelf to
the utmoft, to maintain the Right which he feems
to enjoy, and keep the Hold he has gotten; for he
knows how ill his Caufe is to be defended by Ju-
flice and Reafon, and if he fhould anfwer as he did
to the Sons of Sceva the Jezv^ what then if you
fhould fay to him, in the vulgar and ignorant Dia-
led of fpeaking to Spirits, In the Name of the
Father^ and of the Son^ and of the Holy Ghofl^ Who
art thou? or, I charge thee in the Name of the
Father^ 6cc. to be gone, and diflurb me no more.
I s A Y, if the Devil Ihould anfwer, The Father
I know, and the Son I know, and the Holy Ghofi
I know, but who are you, you that pretend to ufe
their Names thus ? What would you fay for your
fclf ?
Now that we may know how to anfwer the
Devil, as well as how to fpeak to him, (for both are
very neceffary) let me enter into the State of the
Cafe a little, between the Devil and us 5 nay, be-
tween all the Inhabitants of the invifible World,
and their Friends in this, let them be who, or of
what kind they will.
First, In order to be free from the Surprize
of thefe things, you muft endeavour to eftabliih
your Mind in the right underftanding of the thing
caird Apparition; that you may reafon your felf
into a fufficicnt Firmnefs, and Steadinefs of Soul
againft
3 xo The Hijiory and Reality
againfl: all the whimfical and imaginary Part
of it.
Let us think of things as they are, not as they
are only imagined, and fuppofed to be; for 'tis the
Reality of the thing, not the Shadow, that can fright
and diforder us, that is to fay, that can have any
juft Reafon to do fo.
For want of this we are often feared and terri-
fy'd with Dreams and Vifions, even when we are
awake, and when really there is no fuch thing in
Subftance or Reality as any Vifion or Apparition,
other than Apprehenfion throws in upon us, and
other than our bewitched Imagination reprefents
to us.
I T is abfolutely neceflary, if you would not be al-
ways looking over your Shoulders, and always form-
ing Speftres to your Fancy : I fay, 'tis neceflary to
have a right Notion of [Apparition in general; to
know what it is, and what it muft be, whence
it comes, and what the utmoft of its Commiflion
can be; that you may think your felf into a true
and clear Underftanding of it, and then your Fears
about it will be regulated after another manner. For
Example :
1. Establish your Mind in this particular
and fundamental Article, that whatever appears
it muft be either a good Spirit from the invifible
World, an Agent of Mercy, a Meflenger of Peace,
and confequently will do you no Hurt: OR,
2. A N evil Spirit^ an Agent of Hell from Satan's
Region and Empire, the Air; and that fo what-
ever evil Defign or evil MefFage he pretends to
come about, and however mifchievous his Inten-
tion is, he cannot do the Hurt he defires, becaufe
that as the good Spirits are under Dire6bion, fo
the bad are under Limitation j the one will not^
and the other cannot hurt you, without an imme-
diate Command from above. The Fear therefore
which
of APPARITIONS. 321
l^hich we have upon us concerning Apparition, h
not or ought not to be guided by their Appear-
ance, but by the reditude of our own Thoughts j
and as we are or are not quiet and calm within, fo
we ihall or ihall not be under Apprehenfions from
Avirhout.
Fortify your Minds then with a fteady Con-
fidence in the Supreme iVIaker and Governour of
all things, who has the great red Dragon in a
Chain 5 and when you think you fee the Devil^
fear nothings for He will never let loofe the De-
flroycr upon any one whofe Mind is fteadily fix'd
upon himfelf.
This is a critical, and perhaps a too curious
Piece of Pradice for me to meddle with, efpeci-
ally here, and muft be but gently touch'd at 5 you
will, it may be, obje6t too againft the Dodrine
of it, and fay, Who can fo efFe61:ually truft in
God, as not to be at all afraid of the Devil ? Now,
tho' this may feem true upon many Accounts, and,
as Times go with us, may be really a juft Obje-
ction, yet, if we will believe Hiftory or Experi-
ence, it is not fo much a Difficulty as to fay Who
can do it? for it has been done.
I REMEMBER the knowu and famous Story
of a Maid Under a real and perfonal PoffeiEon of
the Devily at Little Gad/den in Hertfordjhire^ tho*
by an unhappy Difappointment I was not prefent,
not knowing of the thing tiaie enough 5 yet I faw
and conversed with feveral that were prefent and
heard the Devil fpeak in the Maid and by the Or-
gan of her Voice, tho' without any apparent Motion
of her Tongue or Lips, or any Part of her Mouth*
O F this Perfon it was pofitively true, thac
there was a certain good Man, tho' a Lay
Chriftian, who fo frequently pray'd with the poor
Demoniack, being a Neighbour of her Father's,
and fo conftantly talk'd to the Devil^ and batter'd
Y him
^li The Hijiory and Reality
hfm with Scripture, that he was, as I might
fay, the Devil's Terror, and he would not let the
Girl go to any Houfe or into any Room where
this Man (whole Name was Monks) was 5 and if fhe
was dire6led to any Place he would (lop her, as if he
was to go and fee firil if Mr. Monks was there or
not, and then he would bid her go, for Monks was
not there.
Now, as i am well affured of the Truth both
of the Girl's being poflelTed, really a6i:uated by a De"
I
*z;//inher, and of this Z)<?w7 being afraid of Mr. A/(9;^)^j>
then the Qiieftion above is fo far dire&ly anfwer'd,
that it is poflible to arrive to fuch a State, as not
only not to be afraid of the Devil^ but even to make
the Devil afraid of us. 1 confefs it would be a State
of Felicity that would make Life very eafie to us up-
on many Accounts 5 and I could enlarge very pleafant-
ly (to my fclf) upon that Subjc6t. But as things go
with the World, I queftion much whether it would
be fo pleafant to thofe I am writing to, and there-
fore I leave it : and fo if I have been preaching a
little, it is fo little in length, and I hope fo much
to the purpofe, that you may forgive me for once,
efpecially upon Promife of faying as little for your
Good for the time to come, as I can.
There is indeed a right worthy and commend-
able State of Indifference, not only as to Who (hall
or fhall not vilit us from the invilible World, and
from what Part of it .they come> but alfo as to
what Station we are to have among them hereafter i
and this happy Temper is much recommended to
me by fome of my fafhionable Friends, as a mod
defirable Condition of Life: to be perfedly eafy, void
ofAnxiety and Perplexities of any kind, and forming
the moft perfect Compofure of Soul that can be
imagined.
They defcribe this the moft accurately indeed
by the Pradice, for they fay moft feelingly, that
no
of APPARITIONS. 3Z5
no Tongue can exprefs the Felicity of it 5 which
indeed I believe is very true 5 they are perfe61:ly eafy
aboutjbecaufe thoughtlefs of, that dull remote thing
called Futurity. As tor there being a State of Life,
or a Something like Life after Death, they can't fay
but it may be ib, for they never enquired much in-
to the Pnnciples of the 'Saduces^ or into any other
Pricinciples about it. But what that State is to be,
or what we are to be, or not to be, in it, they ne-
ver trouble themfelves about it ^ they look upon it as
a thing remote, which People are not agreed about,
and they believe never xs/'ill, 'till they come there 5
and to be beating their Heads and perplexing their
Thoughts, about what, when they have done all,
they are fure they fhall never arrive to a Cer-
tainty about, they do not fee 'tis to the Purpofeat all.
This is certainly a mighty brief Way with
their Doubts, and a ihort anfwer to all Enquiries j
and I muft own 'tis putting a fhort end to all
Difputes with themfelves, about the thing called a
future State.
But there remains a Queftion Hill unanfwer'd,
and which is aQueflion of moment with me, what-
ever it may be with them, viz. Where is the Feli-
city of this kind of Calm ?
O, fays a Deifi of mf Acquaintance^ Peace of Mind
is a Felicity, I hope.
Yes, paid /, if it be built upon a right Founda-
tion.
Nay, y^^'j he^ Peace is Peace 5 don't tell me of
Foundations.
Hold Friend, [aid /, even Molinos himfelf the Au-
thor of the ^ietifme^ which one Author well calls
Sotifme^ and ot the Sc6t of the ^ietifis^ and who re-
folved all Felicity and all Religion into the Calm of
a retired Soul, yet fixed that Calm upon the Me-
ditations of an upright Mind, and the Calm of a clear
Heart.
Y i I
5 24 ^^ Hijlory and Redlt^
I VALFE none of your Sedts, fays my Friend.
Gallio was a true Politician and a happy Man, j4^s
xviii. 17. //^ cared for none of thefe things y and there
was his Happincfs,
S o a Madman, fays /, is happy in his Lunacy,
and enjoys a thoughtlcfs Calm, all the while he is
in the greateft Hurry and Diforder of his Soul. I
fay, there's no Calm in Diftra6^ion.
Well, but I am calm, fays he, and yet I am
not diflradled.
I D o N 't know that, faid /, I doubt the Fa£b.
Well, if I am mad, I don't know it, fays he^
and, as 1 faid before, that's a Happinefs to me.
A HAPPINESS in Mifery, faid I-y and fuch is
all the Peace that fuch a Temper can give.
But why is it not a fufficient Felicity, fays he^
to be calm and quiet?
Because, faid /, a Mind infenfible and un-
moved in Dangers of the greatell Importance, is
not confiflent with the Condition it felf, or with
Prudence and Reafon, under that Condition.
How is it not confident? fays my Friend.
Why, for Example j fuppofe, fays /, a Man in
the upper Rooms of a Houfe, when all the lower
Part was on Fire j the Stair-cafe and all Retreats cut
off, except throwing himfelf out of the Window,
if this Man fat fmoking his Pipe, or finging a Song,
or reading a Play, would not you fay he was de-
mented and mad ?
But how are the Cafes parallel ? fays he.
Exactly, faid /, they agree in every Part
but this y that he is certain the Fire is under him,
and you don't know but it may be fo, and don't
think it worth while to enquire : and to make it
chime in that Part too, you may fuppofe the Man
ignorant too, only that People call to him, and tell
him the Houfe is on Fire, and he does not fo much
as rife off his Seat to go to the Stair-head and fee
whe-
of APPARITIO N S. 3ZJ
whether it be fo or no 5 tho* he hears them, and
tells them he hears them, he bids them not trou-
ble their Heads about him, 'tis time enough when
he feels it 5 and the next Moment the Floor falls
under him, and foon after the Roof falls in over
him, and fo he is burnt to death.
What do you infer from this ? fays he.
I E N Qjj I R F, faid /, whether that Indolence and
Unconcernednefs be confiftent with common Senfe,
and if a wife Man would do fo?
Suppose I grant it ? faid he.
So, fays /, you muft grant that an Indifference
about what fhall be our Share of that Stare which
is beyond us, Whether the bright or the dark, is in-
confiilent with common Senfe, and that no wife
Man can a6t fo.
Here my Friend and I ended, for inftead of
being touch'd wirhir, hetalk'd prophanely, and then
I always think 'tis time to leave off talking at all}
for when Men give up their Reafon to Atheifm,
and their Senfe of G O D to Blafphemy, who fhall
labour to wafh that Ethiop ?
I T is the fame in the Cafe before mej here is
an Apparition, or fuppofe itj the Man that fees \t
is utterly unconcerned about it 5 he cares not one
Farthing whether it comes from above or from
below, whether it be an Angel or a Devilj a Mef-
fenger from Hell or from Heaven j and fo this Man
is not afraid of it, but boldly goes up to it, and
like a Soldier cries. Who are you for ? Whence
come you? What have you to fay to me ? And it may
be gives it for Anfwer, Very well, go about your
Bufinefs then, I have nothing to fay to you. And
this fort of Courage, as he calls it, this unconcerned
Bravery, he recommends as the beft way to deal with
thefe Spirits.
But fuppofe the Devil won't be put ofF (o^ but
lays, I'll come and Vifit you to-morrow in another
Y 3 Drefs,
^i6 ' The Hijiory and Reality
Drefsj ril try your Courage •, and at kft mafters this
fort of indolent, unconcern'd Eafinefs, and the
Man falls into Terror and Amazement \ what has he
at the bottom to preferve him from the Devil then?
truly nothing 5 but he is, like Cajhio Burroughs^ all
trembling, and cries out, O God ! here Jhe comes^ and
is frighted even to Death. Certainly a cold Indiffe-
rence about it whether it be an Angtl or the Devilj
and above all, whether its Meffage be from Hea-
ven or Hell, will not hold it out againft the Ter-
ror that may come along with it from without, or
the rcfleiStions ofGuikthatmaybe railed by it from
within ; fo that fome better-grounded Courage, a
Calm begun from a better Principle, muft be en-
quir'd after j oreltejas I fiid to my Deiftical Friend,
when you do really fee the Devil you will not be
fo eafy as you promife your felf to be. But this is
too ferious for you, I muft go on.
I COME next to the Enquiry, Whatis our bufi-
i\t{sj and how fhould we behave if it is our mif-
fortune to have any fuch Appearance come to us?
and fuppofe our Minds to be as much composed as
ordinarily may be expedted, not more than our
Neighbours 5 but what, Ifay^ (hall we do, and what
is the beft courfe for us to take ?
In my Opinion, and it is the next Advice I
would give, I (ay next to that of fortifying the
Mind with religious Confiderations, of which I
have fpoken, and which fhould always go firll,
Jpeak to it.
B Y fpeaking to it, my meaning is. Speak tho' it
does not fpeak to you. I have heard of fome Ap-
paritions, who *tis faid, had no power to fpeak 'till
they were firlt fpoken to,and fome cafes of that kind
are publifh'd by thnfe who I fuppofe believ'd them j
tho' I fee no reafon to do fo j and particularly of an
Apparition that caufed a poor Man to follow it
over Hedge and Ditch all Night for many a Night
together,
of APPAR IT IONS. 327
together, 'till the poor Man was almoft hurry 'd to
Death j but could not fpeak to him,and the frighted
Wretch was afraid to fpeak to it 5 but at laft the
Man fpoke, and then the Apparition's Mouth wa*
loofed too: all which I mud confefs I fee no man-
ner of reafon to believe, and therefore cannot re-
commend it to any body elfe to believe.
There feems no Confiftency in the Nature of
the thing, no foundation for it in Religion, or
any thing in it that we can Reafon upon for our
own Underftanding 5 and where neither Nature,
Religion or Reafon allow us any Light in it, upon
what Principle can we go to make our Judgment ?
But leaving it therefore where we find it, I
fay if you fee an Apparition, that is fuch an Appa-
rition as we have been fpeaking of, not a Phan-
tofm of your own Brain,not an imaginary Apparition
the cfFedfc of Fright or Dream, or meer Whimfie,
not a! Hypocondriack Apparition, the effe6b of Va-
pours and Hyftsrick Shadows, when the Eye fees
double, and Imagination makes it felf a Teiefcope
to the Soul, not to fhow Realities, bun to magnify
Objefe at the remotefl diftance, and fhow thmgs
as in being which are not, if you fee fuch an /Ap-
parition as this and fpeak to it, 'tis no wonder you
receive no anfwer, and fo you go away more
frighted with a filent dumb Devil than you would
be with a fpeaking one 5 but I fay, if the Vifion be
real, if it be a Shape and Appearance in form as
has been defcrib'd, never ihun it and fly from it 5
hut fpeak to it,
I F you would ask me what you fhould fay to it,
'tis an unfair Qiieftion in fome Refpe6ls j 'tis not
poffible for any one to di6late, without the proper
Circumftanccs be defcrib'd. The old way you all
know : In the name of^ 6cc. as above, is the common
road. I will not cry down the Cuftooi, becaufe 'tis
the ufual way, and the words are good 5 but I be^
Y 4 lievc
328 The Hijlory dnd Reality
lieve a fincere mental Ejacularory Prayer to the
Blefled Being of Beings for his fuperior Prefence,
'
would be as efFe6lual as prefenting the Words to
the Devil as a kind of Exorcifm 5 fuch a Petition
fent up, and then a plain what are you ? I think is
Compliment enough for the Devil.
A N honeft, plain, religious Scotfman who I knew,
and who thought he faw the Devil^ tho' he was
miftaken too, yet had this (to me) perfe6tly new
Expreflion upon the furprife, the Lord be between me
flnd thee^ Satan awa^ that is go away, or get thee
away: 'twas certainly a good thought, and the poor
Man was right, for if the Lord was between him
and the Devil there was no great need to fear
him or any of his.
B u T to wave particular Infl:ru6tions in the cafe,
the Occafion will certainly adminifter the Subftancc
of what you fhould fay > the prefent Direction is
only in general, f^eak to it^ never fink under the
Terror or Surprize of the fight. The Devil is rarely
feen in his own Shape, and ordinarily for ends of
his own, he chufes to appear in familiar Shapes,
perfonating fome or other that we know, or have
known, and reprefenting to our Fancy fomething
that will not terrify us 5 nay, 'tis the Opinion of
the learned Divines, that the Devil would do much
lefs harm, and be far lefs dangerous, if he appeared
as a meer Devil^ with his Horns, his cloven Hoof,
and his Serpent's Tayl and Dragon's Wings, as
Fancy figures him out, and as our Painters drefs him
up, than he does in his difguifes, and the many
Shapes and Figures he aflumes to himfelf.
So fatal are Mnfques and Difguifes, Habits and
Drefles to the World, and fuch advantage does a
falfe Countenance give to Criminal Performances of
ynany kinds, that even the Devil is more dangerous
^refs'd up in Mafquerade, than in his own Cloarhs,
gnd in his own Colours > if he would come in ail
of APPARiriONS. JX9
his Formalities and Frightfuls, he would not be
capable of half fo many Coufinings and Cheatings
as he now puts upon us : now you have him here and
have him there, you have him every where and no
where, he is here a Tempter to Wickednefs, there a
Preacher of Righteoufnefs} to-day in one difguife,
to-morrow in another j you know him and you
don't know him, fee him and don't fee him, and
how then can any one tell you what to fay to him,
or how to talk with him ?
However, to come as near to it as we can,
the firft and ordinary Queftion, natural to the
Occafion, is to know who he is, and whence he
comes, what MefTage he has to deliver, what Bu-
iinefs he comes about, and what you have to do
with ir, why he diiturbs you in particular, and the
like 5 and if you may obtain fo much Civility froni
him, to defire him to trouble you no more 3 efpecially
if you find the Apparition to be of the worft
kind.
I F it is apparently a good Spirit, I think the
Condu6t fliould differ, as the MefTage he comes about
will certainly differ j if it warns you to repent of
fuch and fuch a fcandalous Life j or if it bids you
reform fuch and fuch a criminal Pra£tice,which you
know your felf guilty of j accept the kind Adrao-
nition,fubmit to the Reproof, and promife Obediencej
you may depend, as I have often fliid, the Devil
comes of no fuch Errand.
I F it tells you fuch and fuch Dangers attend you,
take the kind hint, and ufe the proper means to
avoid them, thankfully acknowledging the Good-
ncfs of the Hand that fent the Notice, as well as
the MefTcnger that brought it > for depend upon ic
theZ)<fi/77, who is a Lover and Author, as well as the
Promoter of Mifchief, takes no Pains to prevent it,
but would rather have a Hand in bringing it upon
yoii.
And
330 The Hifiory and Reality
And if fuch things as thefe are the Subjc6b of
the MclTige, what can you fay why you ihould be
afraid of the Meflengcr ? 'Tis hard to rejoice in
the MelTage, and be Icar'd at the MefTenger : the
truth is, we are not much accuftom'd to fuch folemn
Admonitions, fuch good and beneficent Cautions
and AfTiilancesj and this makes the thing ftrange
and aweful, and be received with Terror and Fright,
and perhaps if it was not fo we ihould receive
them oftner.
We do not find the old Patriarchs, or after
them, the Children of Ifrael^ were fo frighted at
the Apparition of Angels and Spirits 5 it's true in-
deed when the Angel appeared to Gideon at the
Threfliing-Floor, it is faid he was troubled at his
Prefenccj neverthelefs the Mefla^e was kind and
encouraging 5 yet we find he recovered himfclf, and
took Courage to talk very particularly with it, and
to expoftulate with him about the Circumftances
of his Country, and of the People, and even to
ask a double Sign from the Angel to confirm his
Faith : and how went he on ? he obey'd the Voice
of the Vifion, notwithftanding all his Fears and
Doubts, and he bow'd his Soul, and foUow'd the
Direftions given him.
There are abundance of Reafons why we
ihould liften to fuch Apparitions as thefe 5 their
diftinguifhing Chara6ter is, that they always come
of fome Errand or other for the good of Man-
kind 'y take it either in general, or in particular :
Sometimes 'tis alledg'd they come upon trifling and
mean Occafions, as is the Cafe in many Inftances
given in Story, and in Print. But it may be an-
fwered with an Enquiry, Are we fure thefe are not
trifling Stories, and brought in by Perfons, perhaps,
but half informed ? But what are we to think of
the Apparition to King James V. in Scotland^
who warn'd him againft his Flodden-Field Expedi-
tion?
of AVVARiriON S. 33t
tion? which if he had liften'd to he had fav'd his^ "
Life, and the Lives of ten thoufand of his People:
for lefs, 'tis faid, did not fall in the whole Un-
dertaking.
And what fhall we fay of the Warning given
to the Duke of Buckingham^ by the Apparition of
his own Father, which if he had liften'd to, 'tis
very likely he had efcap'd the fatal Knife ? for Fel-
ton^ who AffafHnated him, did it, as it feems he
declared at the Gibbet, upon the Account of the
Popular Hatred, and that he thought him a pub-
lick Enemy to his Country.
These, and many more which I have men-
tion'd, or which I have not mention'd, have been
the Subje6l of fuch MefTcngers, and were far from
trifling. If an Apparition gives any of us Notice
of our approaching End, and bids us prepare for
it, is not the MelTage folemn, and the Occafion
of it weighty j and is not the Notice worth our
Regard? Is the Preparation for Death a trifling
thing? and the aflurance how near the time is can-
not but be a valuable Notice 3 I am fure it oughc
to be elleem'd fo.
A floutin'g atheiflick Man of Wit, who
muft be namelefs, becaufe he will not bear to be
nam'd to the Crimes which he is not alliam'd to
commit, told me, when difcourfing this Part of
the Subje6i:, that it was no Kindnefs at all, for
that Men ought always to be prepared for Death j
and yet cou'd not deny but that it was a remote
AfFair which he had not yet given himfelf the
trouble to think about.
I CANNOT believe but that if fome People,
who now value themfelves upon their bright
Thoughts, and their being above the Power of
Chagrine, or of any melanchoUy Refle6i:ions to di-
flurb their Joy, were told (nay, tho' it was by a
kind Apparition) that they were to die, one in a
Fortnight,
4
3 3 ^ TT^^ Hijiory and Reality
Fortnight, one in three Days; one at one time,
and one at another, and all within a (hort time, they
would have a little alteration upon their Out-fides.
G' M who laughs evermore, is conti-
nually tittering and prompting others to thelowefl-
priz'd Part of Mirth, who is all Levity and Froth,
and owns that one Sigh never yet reach'd his
Heart; fhould a folemn Apparition come to him
and his merry Friend, the very Duplicate of him-
felf, and fay. Repent G-^ , and prepare for Death,
for you have but three Months to live, and you
, pointing to his Fellow-mimick, but five
Days ; I lay, ihould fuch a Meflage be ferioufly de-
livered him in fuch an aweful Manner, as many
Relations tell us have been done to others, I can-
not have fo little Charity for the Beau, but to
think he would change Colour a little, and begin
to confider, and efpecially if at the five Days end
lie had News that his other Self, the Image of
his extraordinary Soul, the very So/to to himfelf,
in Life, tho' not in Figure, was found dead in his
Bed to a tittle of the time.
I s A Y I cannot doubt but that he would learn
to Sigh a little; and my Charity is- the more exten-
five in Mr. M 's Cafe, becaufe, take him
a little ofFof his ordinary Titillations, and unhinge
him from the light Article which has gain'd fo
entirely upon him as to Eclipfe him, the Man has
yet fome Brains, and they might perhaps aflift a
little upon fuch an Occafion, to condenfe the Va-
pour, and bring the folid Part uppermoft, which
at prefent has not happen'd to him.
And not to fingle out a gay Humour or two
from the reft, how many among our Box and Pit
Heroes, were they told they were under the Sen-
tence of Death, and only Repriev'd for fo many,
'and fo many Days : I fay, how many of them would
fhine at the next Opera ? how would their Coun-*
tenances
of APP ARITIO NS. 535
tenances change, and their Knees knock one a-
gainft another? How would they fit down in Tears
and Repentance, or fink into the Death foretold,
even by the meer Horror of its approach ? for
there is the raoft Dread where there is the leafc Re-
pentance : Nor let any one cavil at the Exprefiion,
a Sentence and a Reprieve, let them take it as they
Willi the thing is no lefs, and can be under-
llood no otherwife of us all: We are all under the
Sentence, as dire6bly as a ^^riminal that hears it read
at the Bar, with only this fignificant Difference,
namely. That we are Repriev'd fine die^ the Cri-
minal is not, and the Confequence of this may be
the worfe> for we promife ourfelves it fhall be lon-
ger than we have reaion to believe it is, and fo
are often Executed in Surprize, our Preparations
being delay'd by Prefuniption j whereas the Off-^n-
der knows he muft die at the Expiration of his
Reprieve, and perhaps is afiur'd that 'tis in vain to
expeft any farther delay.
Now a kind MefTenger comes, as the Prophet
did to Hezekiah^ and fays. Prepare yourfelf, for you
Ihall dic^ and not live *, is this Meflage to be flight-
ed and difregarded? If it is fo treated 'tis at your
Peril, you rake that Part upon yourfelf3 and if you
find this the Cafe, you will hardly call the Mef-
fage trifling, much lefs fay fuch Apparitions ge-^
nerally come upon trifling Occafions.
History records a great many foreboding
Signs, and fome by Apparition, foretelling the De-
fl:ru6]:ion o^ Jerufalem^ and of the Temple j not that
any of thofe Signs could be fuppos'd to give Warn-
ing of it, fo as that it might be prevented 5 for
our Saviour had exprefly faid it fliould be de-
ft roy'd, 1'heir Houfe Jhould he left unto them defolate^
Matt, xxiii. 38. Not one Stone left upon another
which Jhall not be thrown down^ Matt. xxiv. i. But
thofe Signs and Apparitions were apparent Warn-
ings
534 ^'^'^ Hifiory and Reality
mgs to the People, at leaft to fuch of them as had
the Wifdom to take Notice of them, to make their
Efcape out of the City before the Romans invefted
it, and before it was too latej particularly the
opening the great brazen Doors of the Temple,
Vihichjofephus fays twenty Man could fcarce turn to
open or fhut, and which opening of themfelv^s,,
an Apparition was feen in the Houfe of God, and
a Voice heard, faying, Let us Depart hems,
N o queftion, but as the Warning or Alarm was
given to dired many to their Efcape, fo many had
that Wifdom given them as to make their Efcape j
and tho' the Defolation was horrible, and fuch as
perhaps was never equall'd, except in the fame
Place, and the fame Country, by the AJJyrians^
when the firft Temple was burnt > yet, as they fay
'tis a hard Battle where none efcape, fo Jofephus
himfelf owns, that many Thoufands, and others fay
many hundreds of thoufands fled in time, and made
their Efcape, flying, as the Text fays, from the
Wrath to come. Nor can I doubt but that many
had warnings in Dreams, that is, as I fay, by Appa-
ritions in Dream, by Vifions, and fome by open Ap-
paritions, that the City would be deftroycd.
RABBI JUDAH fays, the Patriarchs ap-
peared to many, and gave them Notice, that the
Romans would come and beflege their City, and
that the Temple fliould be deftroyed 5 but I doubt
much of the Story, and that On a double Account.
I .
Whether ever any ofthe Patriarchs did {o appear and
forewarn themj for had they done fo, they would
certainly have told them that the Meffiah was come,
and that therefore the fecond Temple was to be
deftroy'd, for that all the Prophefies were fulfill'd.
Bur, i. I doubt alfo that Rabbi Judah^ if fuch an
Author there was, never faid fo, and that 'tis only
a Tradition.
It
of AFP ARITIO N S.
33^
It is certain there were the like Omens, and I
doubt not Apparitions too, juft before the taking
and racking of Rome by the Barharians, the F'an^
dais and Goths 'y and we might defcend to modern
Hiftory for many of the like: fo that thefe Appari-
tions do not always come upon trifling Occafions,
at leaft they are not trifling to thofe whom they re-
gard in particular, and therefore *tis not an Objedion
for a particular Perfon to make.
I HAVE troubled you with none of thofe Appa-
ritions, which have come to help you to find out Mo-
ney, to reveal little love Secrets and Intrigues, and
upon other fuch Cafes 5 nor do I recommend it to you
to believe thofe Trifles 5 they are moft certainly the
Apparitions of Fancy, as I fliall obferve at large in
its Place 5 fuch People make a meer Harlequin of
the DeviJ^ a common Jack - Pudding, to make
Game with ; 'tis moil certain, the Spirits I fpeak
of, know how to make themfelves be better re-
garded, know how to make themfelves confidera-
blc, can come clothed in Terror if they pleafe, and
have done fo where occafion has call'd for it 5
either to enforce their Meflage, or alarm fuch Per-
fons who fet up for a hardened Face beyond the
Power of invifible Terrors.
But as their Meflage is generally peaceable, and
the Intent of it kind and good, fo they chufe to
come in a manner,^ as little attended with the frightful
Part as they can.
But not to dwell on this Part, or enquire
at all what the Meflage is they come about, whe-
ther trifling or otherwife, the prefcnt Enquiry is,
what is our Parr, what is to be done v/hen they do
appear: For 'till we fee them, we know nothing of
their Bufinels \ nor perhaps when we fee them, un-
lefs we fpeak to them 5 and we have many Stories
of Apparitions, that only fliow themfelves, and
perhaps it may be never fpeak at all.
T HI s
3 3<^ 7^^ Hijiory and Reality
This our People call Walkings and indeed it i^
not improperly call'd fo, becaufe, as to us, we know
no more of their Bufinefsj buc it no more follows
that they have no other Bufineis here becaufe we
don't know it, than that it is likely they fhould come
hither, and walk to and fro, and have nothing to
do.
As forthofe non-appearing Apparitions, if I may
call them fo, (for not to appear, and not to let us
know what they appear for, feems to be much the
fame 5) I mean thofe not-fpeaking Apparitions, we
can indeed give no Account of them, becaufe we
cannot converfe with them : It feems to me they
are not of the Heavenly or Angelick Kind, becaufe
they would certainly have feme more apparent
Bufinefs, and perhaps not be backward to fpeak of
it, at leaft they would not feem to be afliamed of
their Errand.
Nor is it my Opinion, that thofe Apparitions
who come of good Errands can be fuppofed to be
unable to fpcak, if it was neceffary to their Bufi-
nefs to ufe Speech j much lefs that they fhould' re-
ceive their Commiflion or their Ability to fpeak
from our firft fpeaking to them : There is no Co-
herence in it : But certainly if the Spirits that ap-^
pear upon good Defigns, and come upon good Er-
rands, do not fpeak to us 5 they are not fent to us 5
their Bufinefs is with fomebody elfe, which we
know nothing of, tho' we may fee the Spefce^
for it may be that a Man may fee an Apparition that
has nothing to do with him, or to fay to him.
O R perhaps the Spcftre may execute its Com*
miflion effe6lual]y, without fpeaking. A Ghoft was
faid to haunt a certain Houfe in the Country not
far from Rygate in Surrey i it was met in the Gar-
den by one of the Family, who had long valued
himfelf upon believing, and faying alfo, that there
were no liich things as Apparitions, and that he
would
of APPARITIONS. 337
would be fure of it when-ever he met fuch a thing,
he would know what it was made of before he parted
with it.
Going out of the Houfe in the Evening when
it was almoft dark, but not quite, he meets the
Apparition in the Garden j the Apparition fhun'd him,
and would not have been feen, or made as if it would
not have been ktn.HJ! fays he boldly, areyou there f
What are you ? The Apparition flill makes from him,
-and he fpeaks again, /F/^^^r^;'^^.^ What is your Name?
fays he, in a knid of jefting manner. My Bufmefs is
not with you^ fays the Apparition. But I have fome
Bufinefs with you,y%^i hyl muft know what you
are, and I will'know what you are \ and with that,
fays my Story^ (tlio' by the way 1 mufl tell you,
I don't know how true 'tis) Ifay^with that the bold
Fellow offers to go up to it and lay Hands upotf
it 5 at which it advanced to him and over-run him,
bore him down, and threw him againft the Garden
Wall, which was at leafl: five or Cik Yards from
him, with fuch Violence, that he was taken up
for dead ; and I fuppofe he never ventured to lay-
Hands upon a Spirit or Apparition again.
No w be this Story true or not, I mention it to
warn railh Heads, who pretending not to fear the
Devil, are for ufing the ordinary Violences with
him, which afFe6t one Man from another, or with
an Apparition, in which they may be fure to re-
ceive fome Mifchief. I knew One fired a Gun at
an Apparition, and theGunburflin a hundred Pieces
in his Hand, (that is in a great many Pieces.) Ano-
ther ftruck at an Apparition with a Sword, and broke
his Sword in Pieces, and wounded his Hand grie-
voufly. It is mofl certain that an Apparition or a
Spirit is not to be cut with a Sword, or fhot with
a Gun ', as there is no Subftance, there can be no
Wound made 5 and 'tis next to Madnefs for any one
to go that way to work, be it Angel or be it Dsvi/.
Z But
33
8
The Hifiory and Reality
But to carry this farther : In particular, an Ap*
parition niay ihew itfelf, and peForm its Miffion in
a full and compleat manner, and yet not fpeak I
have a Story by me of a Gentleman who carried
on a Secret and Criminal Converfation with a cer-
tain Lady, and having made an Aflignation to nieet
the Lady, was met at the Place by an Apparition
of his own Mother J ihe faid nothing, {he did
, not offer to fpeak, nor did he at firft know it to
be an Apparition. The Gentleman walks about
in the Field near a Houfe where he had appointed
the Lady to meet j the Apparition walk'd about
likewife, and he takes it to be a Woman in ordi-
nary, as any Woman might be feen to walk up and
down in the ftme Field or Walk.
B Y and by the Woman or Lady appointed
comes, he meets her, and goes forward to falute
her 3 the Apparition Ihows itfelf juft behind the
Lady, and looks him full in the Face> he ftarts
back from the Lady, and inftead of kiffing her, cries
'"out^ and asks her, Who's that behind herj ihe turns
^
about, but fees nobody, nor he neither, which
frights them both.
He fancies it to be an imaginary Vapour, ha-
ving no Faith at all in Apparitions, and offers to
go up to the Lady again 5 and behold, he fees the
Apparition juft behind her again, the Face ftand-
'
ing juft fo as to look over the Lndy's Shoulder,
'
^nd ilare juft upon him 3 he cries out again, and
knows it to be his Mother, who it feems was dead,
and in crying out again, he adds. My Mother!
at which it vanifhes.
Had this Apparition any occafion to fpeak?
Was it not Rebuke enough to look him in the
Face? Even in common Affairs, a Look from the
'Eye of one who has Authority to reprove, is fome-
^"times more effedual than the Reproof, if it was
given in Words at length.
Sup-
of APPARITIONS. 53^
Suppose this Spe£tre to regard him not with
a threatning Afpe^b, but wirh a Countenance of
Pity, of a Maternal Reprehenfion, a Reproof urg-
ing Shame and Reproach, Hke that of Solomon^-
PFhat^ my Son! what^ the Son of my Vows! my Son
he feen emhracing a Strumpet! the Man went away,
fays my Story, fill'd with Confufion 3 as no queftion
indeed but he would.
Here was no need of Speech j the Look wa^
a Lafh, and a Reproof fufficientj the Man would
hardly meet there any more, if he would meet the
fame Lady any more, and 'tis very likely he never
did.
'T I s very unhappy in the Cafe before me, that
it is impofllble to atteft the Truth of all the Sto-
ries which are handed about upon fuch a Subje6t
as this is 3 and therefore tho' I might make Flou-
riihes of the Truth of the Particulars in all Cafes,
as others doj I chufe rather to infifl: upon the
Moral of every Story, whatever the Fa6i: may bCf
and to inforce the Influence, fuppofing the Hiilory^
to be real, or whether it be really fo or not, whicfit.
is not much material.
All thefe Cafes, however, return me back to
the Advice above, namely, always if you fee an
Apparition, yp^^/^ to it^ fpeak to it early, and anfwer
any Queflions it asks, but be fure to ask it no Que-
llions except fuch as are reafonable, and may be
fuppofed to be within the Reach of its immediate
Capacity to anfwer; no Queflions tending to re-
veal the Myfleries of a future State. To ask fuch
Queflions as are a plain diving into the Secrets of
Heaven, which it is already declared {hall not be laid
open, is asking the good Spirit, if it be fuch, to of-
fend on his Part, and is really criminal on your Part 5
as, to ask what Condition the Perfon is in, meaning
the Perfon whofe Shape the Apparition takes up j
How he gets Leave to appear herej why he comes
Z 2, ia
34^ 5^^^ Hijiorj and Reality
in this or that Manner j what kind of Place Hea^
ven is, and fuch like 3 as the Bilhop of Down and
Connor ordered James Haddock to ask.
Burfuit your Queftions to what the Spe<5bre
Ihall fay, or as the manner of its Appearance fhall
direcb you 5 as particularly, if it requires you to do
any thing, to fpeak to any Perfon, or to deliver any
Admonition to a third Perfon, as in the cafe of the A p-
parit ion about the Duke of Buckingham^ and as in
the Cafe of Dr. Scot and others 3 you may juftly aslc
Tokens by which you may make your felf be be-
lieved 3 alio fuch Queftions as relate to yourfelf, and
to the Nature of the thing which the Apparition
comes about.
But Quedions relating to things beyond Time^j^
curious Enquiries into Futurity and Eternity, are
upon many Accounts to be avoided 3 and for fome
Reafons which 1 care not to mention in particular
;
becaufe I would not form frightful Ideas in the
Minds of thofe that read. I have fome Stories by
me which give an Account that upon fuch needleft
Inquiries the Apparition has turn'd itfelf into ter-
rifying Appearances, intimating Refentment 3 not
only a Refentment on its own Account, but as if it
was an Offence and a high Provocation to the fu-
preme Power to offer to fearch into what Heaven
has conceal'd : To me, indeed, it feems it would be foj
and therefore 'tis certainly befl to refrain thofe In-
quiries.
In a word, the Apparition is, as I may fay, Ag-
grefTor 5 it appears 3 you are paffive 3 be fo ilill, other-
wife you make your felf the Apparition, and put
the Apparition in your Place : ask it wherefore it
appears to you, whether for Good or Evil 3 if for Evil,
call upon God for Prote6i:ion 3 if it comes for Good,
declare your felf ready to receive its MefTage, and to
obfcrte every juft Diredlion, to obey every righteous
Command, and attend to what it ihall fay.
Tiii.5
of APPARITIONS. 341
This is to a6t fcarlefs, and yet cautious j bold,
and yet wifely 5 refolv'djand yet humble 5 and in this
Temper of Mind, I think no Man need to be a-
fraid of an Apparition.
You may refolve all fuch things into this j Whe-
ther they are good Spirits or;bad, Angelick Ap-
pearances or Diabolickj they are under fuperior Li-
mitations : the Denjil we know is chain'd, he can
go no farther than the length of his Tether 5 he
has not a Hand to a£l:, or a Foot to walk, or a
Mouth to fpeak, but as he is permitted. The Cafe
of Jj^is Commiffion to Joh is explicit-, fuch and fuch
things he might do, fuch he might not> even the
Lives of ^oh'% Children, and Cattle, and Servants
were given him 3 and, like a De^vil as he was, he
went to the full Extent of his Gommiffion^ he
fpar'd not one of them that he could deftroy, but
he was forbid to touch the Life o^Joh^ and he did
not, he durft not, he could not kill him.
I F then we are fure the Devil is retrained from
hurting us, any other wife than he is dire6ted and
limited, we may be fure that good Spirits are; for x
their Nature, their Bufinefs, their Defires are all
fix'd in a general Beneficence to Mankind 5 their
Powers and Employments, as far as they are con-
cerned among us, and in things upon this Surface,
are included in the heavenly Acclamation when
the Angels fung to the Shepherds, On Earth Peace^
Good-will towards Meri^ Luk-. ii. 14.
If at any time they are Meflengers of Judgment,
Executors of the divine Vengeance, it is hkewife
by fpccial, nay, by extraordinary Commiflion; and
then they are indeed Flames of Fire, and pundlual^
ly do what they are commanded, and no more.
But even then, that we may be eafie in the
matter of Apparition, they do not difguife them-
felves or conceal their Commiffion : As Manoah's
Wife faid to him when the Angel appeared to her,
z ? it
34^ ^ •^'^^ H^fi^^n ^^^ Reality
if the LORD were pkafed to kill us^ he would not
have received a Burnt- offerings and a Meat-offering at
our Hands^ neither would HE have fhewed us all thefe
things^ Judges xiii. z^. So here, the Apparition of a
good Spirit would not betray us, would not a6t by
Stratagem with us, would not appear in Peace when
he means War 5 come like a Friend, when he was
fent for an Enemy -, give good Council, when he
meant Death and Deftru6tion; But if it appears
in Peace, its Delign and its Meflage is certainly
Peace,
Upon the whole, you have no way any Oc-
cafion to be difturbed at an Appearance, but to
regard the Power fending, not the Agent fent 3
looking beyond the Apparition itfelf, and with a
refolved Mind, and a fteddy, calm Courage, fpeak
to it, and demand its Bufinefsj I do not mean by De-
mand, a Demand of Infult and Arrogance, but an
humble, yet refolved Enquiry, Why, and on what
Occafion it comes to you.
I H AVEdone counfelling. If this Part is too grave
for you, as I faid before, it is not very tedious,
you may make it a Parenthefis, and the Work
will read without it 5 for why fhould I defire you
to do any good thing againft your Will?
1 F you don't think there is any thing in it all,
if it is not worth your Notice, go on without it j
and when you fee any thing, be not furpriz'd and
confus'd, cover'd with Horrour and Fright 5 as is ufu-
ally the Cafe of thofe who laugh loudeft at fuch
things before they come. f'F—— G , Efqj
famous for that particular Virtue called Impudence,
and for that more than ordinary Perfedion of ic,
which fome People call Blafphcmyj how merry
did he ufe to make himfelf about the ordinary
Notions of feeing Apparitions, and hearing People
talk of Spirits and the Devil f
How
of APPARiriO NS. 3 4J
How witty would he be upon the poor Ladies,
when they Teemed a little difordered at frightful
Stories of People's walking, and of the DeviFs ap-
pearing in horrible Shapes, and fuch like things, as
the old Women perhaps had weakly enough fiird^
their Heads vyith! Nothing pleafed the young Hero'
like making a Jeft of thofe things > and the Truth
was, that many of them deferved it : hut the Jefl,
of alk Jfefts was, to fee the Efquife come homis'
frighted out of more Wits than any one ever thought
him Mafter of, when riding home in the dark one
Night, he met, that is, his Fancy met, the Devil in
fome monftrous Shape or other 5 but fuch as his
Terrors could not leave him room to defcrjbe, only
by two great Saucer Eyes glaring in the Dark, and
hy puffing and blov/ing mod frightfully. (It feems
the Devil had been upon fome liafty Bufinefsj and
was out of Breath.)
I N this Terror he is become fuch a Convert to
the Do£trine of the Reality of Apparitions, that he
dares not be a Moment in the dark, dares not lye
alone, or go up Stairs by himfelf; When upon full
Examination, the Devil he met was only a hunted
Bullock that fome Butchers had made half mad, and
had purfued 'till they loft him in the Night, and
he paired the Efquire in the dark, and was found
the next Morning half dead, near the Place where
his Worihip was feared with him. Yet the Fright
has got fuch PoiFeffion of his Soul, that allthelaugh*
lag at him, and all the Fools and Childrens mocking
bia\ in the very Streets cannot beat that Fit of
tremblkig out of his Joints, nor fortify his Soul
againft the Vifion but of a Cat, if it be in the
dark.
S o eminently fiVly does that needlefs Paflion Fear
bring us to be, when 11 has once gotten Pofleffion
of the Mind j How foolifli, how inconfiftcnt, are the
Operations of it ! Hence really the Saying, to he
Z( 4 fri^bteA
344 7/^^ Hiftory and Reality
frighted out of our Wits^ or Such a one is frighted
ouc of his Wirs, is not fo out of the way as feme
may imagine > and the Efquire mention'd jull now
is as effeSually fo frighted out of his Wits, even
in the letter of it, as is poflible} for nothing ever
a6bed more like a Fool than he does now 5 except
it was himfelfwhen he made a Jeft of the Reality of
that very thing, of which now he is fo diforder'd
with the Shadow.
CHAP. XIV.
Of Sham Apparitions^ and Apparitions which
have been the Effe^ either of Fraud or
Fear,
BY (ham Apparitions I am to be underftood fiich
as have been put upon People by the Fraud
and Craft of fubtle Knaves, in order to bring about
their wicked T>t^\gv,%^ or fuch as Fear and weak
Apprehenfion have prefented to, and impofed upon
the Imagination. In fhorr,
FIRST^ Apparitions with which People are
cheated by others.
SECONDLY^ Apparitions with which they
cheat themfelves.
FIRS'T^ Apparitions form'd by the Knavery of
^^,
''hers, to cheat, abufe and impofe upon the Cre-
duh '^y o^th^ People. Such was the Fable of J-^fiter
defcCi'^^^^S ^" ^ Golden Shower, and fallin^^ into the
Lap oi* J^^ncia^ whom he had a min^ to Debauch.
And indc^^^J whofe Virtue could we think would
in thofe L^^y^? ("ot to fay « Word of our more
modeft and fandified Ladies) reiiil a /hovver
of QoXd.^ ^'^^^^'^^ ^""^^^ ^^^"* ^^P^ ^^^^ ^ God in
the x\\\o^^^ ^^ ^^ ^°°^ ^^^ ^^^^ '^^ ^^^ "^^^^
of APPARITIO NS. 34;
*
The like Apparition that Immortal Raviiher of
Virgins, calFd J^/j/V^r, made, when heftole the Lad/
Europa in the ihape of a Milk-white Bull, invi-
ting the Lady to get up upon his Back, and im-
mediately jumps into the Sea with her, and fwims
over the Helkfpont 5 from whence the other fide .
where {he landed is call'd Europe .to this Day. In-
deed when Ladies come to ride upon Bulls, what
can they expecl ? Such was the horrid Cheat puc
upon that poor virtuous, but bigotted Roman Lady,
perfuading her that the God defir'd to en-
joy her, which ihe in blind Devotion fubmitted to
with Raptures of divine Joy and Elevation 5 caufed
her Bed to be laid in the Sacriftie of the Temple,
deck'd it with Flowers and Perfumes, and caufed
the debauch'd Prieft to be drefs'd up with Robes
of State, and offering rich Odours all the Night j
when at length, inftead of the God, inflead ot the
Apparition which fhe ^^^'^o.Eitd^^ iTie was bctray'd,
and was violated by the Traytor that lay in waic
for her in the Temple. Such again was the Appari-
tion of Apollo which Lucian fpeaks of, which was
{t^n fu(pended in the Air, and carry*d or mov'd a-
^out from place to place in the Temple of Apollo
<A,t .HierapoUs. Lucian de Dea Syra.
Such was the fordid Impofture of Mahomet^
who Jiaving brought up a tame Pidgeon to come
to his ^ar, where he fed her always with Peafe or
Tares, fo that fhe conftantly came thither at his
Call ', persuaded his Followers that it v/as an Appa-
rition of xhc Angel Gabriel fent from GOD to
whifper divirivC Oracles into his Soulj and that he
received the Heavenly Infpirations by that means.
Such was the Voice which pronounc'd him to be the
Prophet of the moft high GOD, which Voice
founding in the Air, no Perfon appearing to fpeak,
was concluded to be fhe Voice of an ^\ngel, ap-
pearing to him, \vhere'4S it was fpoken by his own
Dire6lion
3 4^ ^^ Hifi^n ^^^ Reality
Direftion by a poor Fellow who he bad placed on
pufpofe at the boctom of a Well j and when he
found the Impofture take with the People, he fent
a Detachment of his Followers to fill up the Well
with Stones, pretending it was that it fhould no
more be prophan'd by any Man or Cattle drinking
of its holy Waters, from whence the Voice of an
Angel had been heard 3 but really to bury the poor
Wretch at the bottom of it, that he might not
betray the Secret, and difcover the concriv'd Delu-
iion.
Such likcwife was the Story of the Afs that
carry'd him up into Paradife, and that not only to
one, but through feven or eight Paradifes or Hea-
vens, where he faw two and thirty thoufand Vifi-
ons: And fuch were all the Apparitions which that
ridiculous Impoftor feigned to fee upon every Oc-
cafion, 'till his blinded Followers believed him to
be an Apparition himfelf.
Such was the Image of St. G^^r^^,Tightly call'd
Miraculous, which the Greeks to this Day play
horrible Pranks with at the Ifle of Skyros in the
ArchtpeUgiic^ and which they put upon the People
^s an Apparition indeed 5 exercifing particular Seve.-
rities upon People in feveral Cafes : But as it is ma-
naged by the Priefts, fo 'tis efpecially very furious
upon all thofe that negled to fulfil the Vows made
to the faid Saint George^ or in general to all thofe
that do not pay their Debts to the Clergy.
Monsieur Tournefort in his Voyage into the
Levant gives a diverting Account of the Condu6t
of this Devil of Skyros 3 how they worry the Ig-
norant People to Death with it, and impofe upon
them by it in the grolTeft and abfurdefl manner
poflible. As there are not greater Impoftors in the
World than the Greeks^ and efpecially the Greek
Clergy j fo there are not a more ignorant, eafily-
impos'd-upon People in the Wofid than the Greek
Layetys
cf APPARITIO NS. 347
Laycty 5 and efpcciallythofe whom the GreekCXcvgy
have to do with : Hence it is, that the moft abfurd
Reafonings go down wiiK them j and indeed they
may be truly faid to be Believers in the literal fenfe,
for they take all things by the iuTtip, and without
reafoning at all upon them : if not, it ^vould be im-
poffible to poffefs them, as thePriefts do, with a Be-
lief that the Image of St. George moves the Prieft,
not the Prieft the Image, tho' he carries it about
upon his Shoulders.
Yet this is the faQ: : The Image of St. George is
no more than a Pi61:ure, and that of very courfe
Painting reprefenting St. George upon a log of
Wood 5 'tis plac'd over the great Altar of the Ca-
thedral at Skyros^ which is dedicated to that Saint
:
when the Church is full of People, the Image is
fcen to move of it felf. This they call, and were
the fa^ true, it might well be caird5the Apparition
of St. George-^ but be the Fad: true or not, *tis be-
liev'd to be fo, and that's as well to all the intents
and purpofcs of an Apparition, as if the Image were
invigorated.
But to fpeak it in their own words, the Image
is feen to move of it felf, and to {how it felf in
Apparition to all the People 5 for notwithftanding
its Bulk and Weight, it will tranfport it felf through
the Air into the midfc of the Aflemblyj there it
hovers about, as it were viewing every Face and ex-
amining every Heart 5 If it finds any one that has
fail'd to perform any Vow to him (the Saint,) the
Image immediately fixes it felf on the Shoulders of
the Delinquent, fingles him out, and not only he
is expos'd to the whole AITeaibly, but the Image
plies him with furious and continued BufFettings,
'till he becomes penitent, and promifes again in the
Face of the AfTembly to pay what he owes to the
Church.
But
34^ T'he Hijiory and Reality
But this is not all : but when che Aflembly is
thus purg'd by the Juftice of this Ghoil in an I-
mage, it is then taken up and plac'd upon the
Shoulders of a blind yiowXk^ who carries it out of
the Church into xhc Towns the Monk being blind
and not know^ig whither he goes, is guided by the
occult imp-'cffion of the Image, who guides him as
a Rider guides a blind Horfe 5 and thus he carries
him dire6lly to the Houfe of fuch as are Delinquent
in the cafe of Debt to the Altar of St. George.
Nor is it enough that the Debtor feeing the
Apparition or Image coming to him, flies from ic, and
efcapes from Houfe to Houfe j for the Image caufes
the Monk to follow him by the Foot, as a Hound
does a Hare 5 fo that,in a word, there's no efcaping
St. George^ no flying from him, the Monk is fteddy
in his purfuit, afcends, defcends, pafles, repalTes,
enters all places, 'till the poor Wretch, who maybe
truly faid to be hunted down, or Hounded down as
they exprefs \i in the North, is oblig'd to pay the
utmoft Farthing.
This Story fully confirm'd my thoughts in a
Remark which I made from the beginning of this
"Work, that really Church Apparitions are themoft
frightful, moil: teizing, and terrible in their way, of
all the real Devils that walk about in the World.
But what need we wander thus among the
Ancients, and hunt among the Greek Schifmaticks
for artificial Apparitions, and for Ecclcfiaftic Delu-
fions of this kind .^ The Roman Church, that true
Catholick Eftablifhment, built upon the folid Rock
oFSc. Peter himfelf, how full is it of glorious Frauds
of this kind ? and how has the whole Scheme of
Papal Tyranny been fupported among the People
in this very manncr,ever fince the great defection of
the Ro?nan Hierarchy, from its true Primitive Pu-
rity, and original holy Inflitution ?
Not
of AP PARITIO NS. 345>
Not that I purpofe to make this Work a Col-
ledion of Church Apparitions, whether Popifh or
Protellant 5 any more than I fhall enter upon a re-
citing the Uni'uerfalta of State Apparitions j 'tis
well for this Age, both in Church and State, that
my Doctrine of the Re/1 of Souls is eftabhfh'd $ for
certainly, if the Souls of the Departed could bedi-
llurb'd either in Heaven or Hell^by the mad things,
or the fimple things, the good things, or the
wicked things tranfa6bed by their Pofterity in thefe
Days, there mull: be as great an Uneafinefs in
thofe eternal Manfious on account of the prefent
Age, as ever there was (ince Hiftory gives us any
Account of things : Never did any Generation
make fuch Fools of their Fathers, and fuch wife
Men of themfelves, and both fo unaccountable >
fure it muft be, that the Dead cannot come to the
Quick, and that they know nothing of us, or the
whole World would be one Apparition, and we
fhould, as Sir^ B •
faid above, have all
come up again that was under Ground, the dead
World would be too many for the living World,
and we fhould meet ten Apparitions in every Street
for one living Creature.
But to come to the Cafe in hand, the firfl
Chnftian Apparition I meet with deferves our par-
ticular Remark 3 firft indeed, becaufe of the Impor-
tance of the Occafion, namely, for the Confirma-
tion of the Faith of all true CathoHcks in that great
difputed, yet unfettled Point, ijiz. Whether e'uer
St. Peter was at Rome or no ? a Point fo efTen-
tial, and which the Hereticks take (o much Pains
to make doubtful, that if we Catholicks do not
eilablifh it pafl all the Cavils of our Enemies, we do
nothing j and for this we bring the miraculous
Apparition of Jefus Chrift to St. Peter jufl without
the Ciry, and which carried Peter back again into
the City 5 fo that as he came out of Rome^ and re-
turned
3ya 'The Hljiory and Reality
turn'd to Romcy Chrifl: himfelf being Witnefe to
it, fure it can never be difputed any more.
This being of fo great Importance to the Ca-
tholick Church, it is meet I fhould bring you
good Authority for the Relation 5 and therefore
thinking my felf not competent, not a fufficicnt
Evidence, being perhaps rur'.»e6bed of Herefy, I
jfhall give it you out of the Labours of an
ancient Father of the Roman Church, and you fhall
have ihe Story from his own Mourh, und in his own
Words, as follows: It is the famous Do6tor Smithy
a Popifh Preacher in Qiieen Mary's Days, who
boafted that he had overcome both Bifhop Ridley^
and Biihop Latimer^ in a Difpute againft them about
St. Peter's having been at Rome, Take a piece of
the Reverend Doctor's Sermon.
The Do£lcTr's Bulinefs was to take upon him to
run down the poor opprefs*d Confeflbrs, Cranmer^
Ridley and Latimer^ and make them odious to the
People 5 and being to preach a Sermon upon this
Subie6t at Whittington College in London^ (^the fame,
or near it, that is now calPd St. Martin Fintry) He
begins thus,
''My Mafters, you are in great E rror concern
'' ing the blefTed Sacramenc, and all your Trufl
*' was in Cranmer^ Ridley^ and Latimer 5 as for La-
'' timer^ he faid in open Difputation at Oxford^ that
*' he had no Learning in that Matter, but out of
^' Cranmer's Book. Before this I difputed with
*' Latimer twenty Years ago, and then he had no
'' Learning ; As for Cranmer^ht faid that his Learn-
''
ing came from Ridley y -and as for Ridley^ I dx^-
'' puted with him my felf now at Oxford the other
" Day, and I proved my Argument thus, Ilk mi
** Chrifius obviavit Roma fuit Roma j ac Chriftus
'' obviavit Petro Roma : Ergo Petrus fuit Roma. That
" isj He whom Cbrifi met at Roms was at Rome -y
but
of APPARITIONS. 3JI
'^^
but CJorift met P^Ur at Rome^ Ergo PeUr was
" at Rome.
"By this Argument I prove two things, and
^' fitigular Myfteries of our Faith,
'' FIR S f^ fhat Peter was at i?(?;«^,againft tbofe
^' who clatter ihat Peter never was at Rome.
" SECONDLT, That if Peter mec Chrift
*' bodily, as Abdias reporteth, and which 1 am fure
*' is true, or elfe ftich an ancient and holy Father
" would never have written ic ^ then confequently
*' he may as well be in the BlefTed Sacrament, as
*' he was met bodily. To this Ridley ilood like a
" Block, and feeling himfelf convinc'd, anfwer'd
^' nothing. Then faid I, cur non refpondes Haretice^
^' H^reticorum^ Hiereticiffime ? did I not handle
" him well .^
" Then he deny'd the Minor, which I proved
*' thus. Ghrifl: met P^/^r going out of i^d?;^^^, and faid
'' Good-morrow Peter! whether goefl: thou? Peter
*^ anfwer'd^Good-morrow good Man^ whither goefl:
'^ thou ? Then faid Chrift^ I go to Rome to fufFer.
*' What ! faith Peter : I trow,unleis I take my Marks
'^ arails, ye be Jesus Christ: Good Lord^ how
^' do you ? 1 am glad I have met you here. Then
•''
faid Jefus Chrift to Petej^^ Go back and fufFer, or
'' elfe 1 muft > ^ pro te (3 me.
" When Ridley had heard this my Proof, and
^^ Ahdias\ Authority, a Do<5tor ancient and irre-
'' fragable, he anfwcr'd never a word j and thus I
*' confuted i^/W/^j; in the Audience of a thoufandj
" and yet ye fay, that Jefus Chrlfl was never bodily
'^ on Earth fince his Afcenfion.
Here's an Apparition of good Fame, and of
extraordinary Authority ^ and if any ObjecSbion can
lye againft it, 'tis only whether it be true or not j
but I am not to anfwer for that, 'tis certainly
true, that the Learned Doftor preach'd this excel-
lent Seriaonj and that's enough for me.
But
351 The Hifiory and Reality
But having thus given you an Apparition of
fuch great Authority, namely of Jefus Chrift him-
felf, I ihali quote you a few others of a more mo-
dern kind to confirm you in this Principle, namely,
that Apparitions did not ceafe in the Church r Tho'
Miracles are faid to ceafe, andProphcfies ceafe, tho'
Oracles are dumb, and the Dead do not return 5 yet;
that Apparition is not wanting, and the Artifices of
the Fathers remain ^ namely, that they can fhow
you wonders in Vifion every Day for the Confir-»
mation of that great Catholick Verity.
I MIGHT defcend here to the famous Appariti-
on of Loudon^ commonly call'd the Devil oi LoU"
don 5 and the yet more famous Apparition o^ Jetzerat
Bern in Switzerlafid. Thefe are indeed Orthodox
Delufions, and both carried on with the utmoft
Aflurance, I had almoft faid Villany, by the Priefts :
But I am not come fo far down yet on our way to
Modern Roguery.
One of our Popes I think infifted, that he had
had an Apparition of the Z)^i/77 to him > whereas St.
Francis^ and St. Ignatius each in their 'turn put the
Bite of Apparition upon the Worlr"/, in fo many
particular cafes, that if they had n ot, as we may
fay, left it ofi^intimCjasthe World tor^k them for mad
Men and Fools, they (would have taken them for
what they really were, viz. Knpives and Cheats,
and have ufed them accordingly 5 and indeed it was
once within an Ace with St. Frands of his being
whipt through the Streets at A^<^^/^j for animpoftor j
and he had but one way to fgec off, -w hich was to
add fome things to his Condu6t fo extremely filly
and ridiculous, that he was taken for aci Idiot, and
Jet run loofe in the Streets with a crowd of Boys
at his Heels following and fhouting at him, and
throwing Dirt and rotten Eggs upon \h\m. This
he turn'd into a fpccies of Martyn Jo:m, valued
himfelf upon it, and would not fuffer xh e Filth to
be
of APPARITIONS. 353
be (craped ofF from him 5 becauie it was the Orna-
ment and Crown of his Sufferings for preaching
the Gofpel.
It was doubtful, for fome time, whether this
holy Enthufiaft had more Apparitions of the Blef-
fed Virgin^ or of the Devil^ following him : It is
true, fome of our Hereticks affirm'd he had no
Apparitions at all, cither of the Virgin or of the
Devil 'y but that it was all a devilijh Cheat, which
he had the Face to put upon the World. Bun
this, they tell us, is too uncharitable 5 becaufe 'tis
fuppofing the Wretch himfelf, (who, it is allow'd, was
a very weak and HUy, tho' an impudent Fellow)
was able to Impofe upon all the World at thac
time, who Univerfally believ*d that he had feea
fome Apparitions which elevated his Mind to thac
degree of Euthufiafm which he appeared a6ced
by-.
But then, if we muft allow he was vifited with
Apparitions, it muft be of the Devil^ not the Blef'
fed Virgin-^ becaufe we have no Scripture Autho-
rity to fupport the Notion that fhe ever did, or
can appear at all, either to him or any body elfej
and that all the pretended Apparitions of the Vir-
gin Mary^ of what kind foever, which the Le^
gends are full of, are the meer Impoftures of the
Prieits, as really and openly as if they had been
feen to be performed: Such was her fpeaking to
St. Bernard^ when he came Up the Nave of the
great Church at Millan^ at four fteps, twenty Yards
at a ftepi at the firft ftep he fiid O F^elix ! at the
fecond ftep, O Pia! at the third ftep, O Santa!
and at the fourth ftep, Maria! to which the Image
anfwer'd. Salve Bernardi. The Marks of the four
fteps. Dr. Burnet^ in his Letters, tells us are to be
feen in the Church ftill, cover'd with little Plates
of" Brafs, having the Words feverally cut upon
them : and yet m fpite of the Relique we cannoc
A a for
354 ^^ Hijiory dnd Reality
for our Lives believe that the filent Image fpoke
to him, any more than that he ftept twenty Yards
at a ftride.
Upon the whole, we are at a Point with St.
Francis^ that if any Apparition did haunt him, it
was that of the Devil -y and they tell us this was
fo frequent, that at laft he pray'd to the Virgin^
that the Devil might not be allow'd to appear to
him but upon extraordinary Occa{ions> and that
whenever he did, he fliould have the better of the
Devil^ if he contended with him : after which the
Devil never appear'd to him at all in his own
Shape, as it feems he ufed to do, but always un-
der fome Difguife, or in other Perfons Shapes,
tempting him in thofe Apparitions, as he found
Occafion j but that he was always too hard for
him, and drove him away. Who had the Vi6tory
at laft, Hiftory is filent: but fome are apt to doubt
that the Devil had the better of him then, for
that we do not read much of his Triumph over
the Devil^ in Articulo Mortis,
St. IGNATIUS, the Patron of the Jefuits^
pretended to make St. Francis^ who was before
him, his Patron, and to Mimick him in all his
moil ridiculous Extravagancies; and thefe of Ap-
paritions amongft the reft: and his Life indeed is
full of Hiftorics of Apparitions, either of one Saint
or other, or of the Devil, or of the Firgin, upon
all Occafions, and fome of them the moft trifling
and frivolous in the World.
St. franc 1 S being very melancholly, ear-
neftly defir'd to hear fome Mufick, being told that
Mufick would exhilerate the Soul > and immediate-
ly an Apparition of Angels furrounded him, and
making a Concert of moft harmonious Mufick
play'd admirably for his Confolation, for a very
eonfiderable while.
St.
of APP ARITIO N S,
St. IGNJflUS had like Apparitions of An-
gels playing fvveet Leflbns of heavenly Mufick to
him when he was writing his Book of Conftitu-
tionsj likewife afcer his Death a Concert of An-
gels made mofl excellent Mufick at his Grave, and
ieveral Stars were feen plac'd upon his Sepulchre.
N. B. The fir
ft Stars that were ever feen irt
jipparition upon Earth y nor indeed did lever
hear that the Stars waJk'd before.
Some Apparitions have been form*d by the Vo^
licy, or rather the meer Face of the Prieils, td
prove their abfurd Do61:rines. Sttrius^ a zealous
Writer for Invocation of Saints, fays, that what^
^-y^r Hereticks may prate^ (he fhould have faid, what-
ever the Scripture may prate) // is abundantly prov\d
that the departed Saints know our Concerns on Earthy
and hear our Petitions^ and fo he determines the
Queftion in Controverfy, viz. Invocation of Saints*
Surius Not. ad Bonavent. in Fit. St, Francifdi
HE docs not indeed offer any thing to prove thd
Fa6b, but fcveral miraculous Apparitions of the
Blejfed Virgin to the devout Priefts praying to her,
one of which may be as true as the other.
^T o prove the Poflibility of a Perfon being in
two Places at once, we are afTur'd of the follow-
ing Apparition of St. Ignatius.
L E ONAR D KESEL, a Jefuit of Cologm^
paffionately defir'd to fee this extraordinary Perfon 5
of whom he had heard fuch wonderful Things re-
lated, and whofe Fame fpread far and wide for a
moft; wonderful Man : Kefel^ an honelt well-mean-
ing Man, knowing very well the bed way to fee
a Man was to be brought to the Place where he
was, and having no Notion of his being a Workef
of Impoffibilities, tho' he thought him a flrange
Perfon too> yet, I fay, not drearoing,of. Miracles,
A a a h©
5^ The Hijiory and Reality
he writes to Igmtius what a defire he had to fee
him, and begs his Leave, ( for Kefel being a Pried
of his Order, he could not flir without Licenfe) I
fay, begs his Leave to come to Rome to receive his
BlefTing.
IGNAflUS forbids him j pofitivcly afluring
him that if fuch an Enterview was neceflary, God
would provide a way for it, without giving him
the trouble of fo long a Journey.
KE S EL did not underftand the meaning of the
Anfwer, and was extreamly diflatisfy'd to be fo far
tinder the Difpleafure of his Superior, as to be de-
ny'd coming to fee him, which he fo paiflionately
defir'd-, however he was oblig'd to fubmit, and
waited the Event.
Upon a Day, fays the Story, when he lead
thought of it, behold Igmtius comes up into his
Cell, or Chamber, and having talk'd with him a
very confiderable while, fuddenly difappear'd j lea-
ving the jefuit exceedingfy comforted with fuch a
prodigious wonderful Vifit.
St. FRANCIS did thefe things frequently,
it feems, and rid thro' the Air in a fiery Chariot j
Which I dare fay is as true as that St. Dunftan^
while he was a Boy, flew down from the top of
Glaftenbury Tor^ or 1'ower^ a Place well known in
Somerfetpire.
The Converfion of St. Ignatius^ they tell us,
Was brought to pafs by an Apparition of St. Peter
to him, who came and touch'd his Wounds re-
ceiv'd in Battle, and healed them immediately 5 and
yet it feems as if St. Peter was but a lame Dodor,
for that St. Ignatius halted, and that his Leg was
crooked as long as he liv'd, cannot be deny 'd 5
whereas when St. Peter healed the impotent Man
at Jerufalem^ the Text fays he made him e^'cery
^hit whole^ AUs iii. 7, 8i
St.
0f APPARITIONS. 1^7
St. FRANCIS is faid to have done innume-
rable Cures for fick and difeafed Perfons, by ap-r
pearing to them after his Death, and I could fill
a Volume with the Hiftory of them ^ but it feems
to be needlefs, all true Gatholicks acknowledge
it.
PASCALL^ Ignatiush Chamber-Fellow and
Companion, being reduced to great Neceffities af-
ter his Death, implores the Afliftance of his Col-
legue in the Church of St. Laurence^ or fome
other Church at Rome-, immediately he heard a
rpelodious Sound, and faw Ignatius appearing to
him, attended with a numerous and beautiful Train
of the Servants of God 3,
but what Relief the Ap-
parition gave him in his extream Neceflity, this
Deponent faith not.
But I may clofe the Difcourfc of impos'd Ap-
paritions with that memorable Story of Jetzer^ a
Dominican in the Monaftry or Houfe of Domini*
cans at Bern^ in Swiferland: The Forgery is ma-
nifefl:, and the Reafon of it 3 'twas an Impofition
upon the Francifcans, and contriv'd to carry on the
Contention which was between the two Societies
to a compleat Vidory.
The Francifcans infift upon the Blejfed Virgin's
being Immaculate, and born without original Sin,
fandify'd from the Womb 5 and therefore they can-
nonize BleiTed St. Ann^ who was the Firgin's Mo-
ther, and make her a triumphant Saint > almoft as
glorious as her Daughter, and have a Service for
her, caird, the Prerogatives of St. Ann, Mother of
the Mother of God: wherein they declare ihe con-
ceiv'd the Blejfed Virgin without the Knowledge
of a Man, and that it was upon an Apparition of
two Angels to her, which fhe relates to her Huf-
band Joachim, There's an Apparition too for the
Confirmation of the Francifcans, (That's by the
A a 3
The^
^^^ The Hijiory and Realty
The Dominicans^ on the other hand, deny
that the Virgin is Immaculate 5 they allow that
fhe is conceiv'd in Sin, but that fhe continu'd un-
der the Culpa or Defilement but three Days> and
they bring in an Apparition of the Blejfed Virgin
to this Friar Jetzer^ lamenting to him that they
ihould go about to make her equal to her Son in
HoHnefs, and confefling, in the Words of the Text,
that fhe was Jhaj)en in Iniquity<y Pfal. li.
f
.
S o here is one Miracle to confute another, and
perhaps both alike autheniick.
But the Story of Jetzer is full of Miracles,
all contriv'd by the Prior, and three of the Fa-
thers : firft, the Apparition of a Soul in Purgatory
comes to Jetzer with a Box near his Mouth, fo con-
triv'd, that when he breath'd upon it, it appear'd
to be all Fire coming out of his Mouthy he had
alfo three Dogs hanging upon him, and gnawing
Jiim as his Tormentors.
In this Pofture he comes to the poor Friar Jet'
%er in the dark, and when he was in his Bed, tells
him his deplorable Condition, but that he might
be taken out of Purgatory by his Means, and by
his Mortifications 5 and this Story he backs with
^loft horrible Groans, as in the utmoft Mifery by
liis Sufferings.
N. B. Ton are to under
fland that this Friar Jet-
zer was a Fellow pick'd out to make a proper
ffool for thefe Impoftures^ being very filly^ and
I'ery de^uout-y and had they not over-a^ed the
things the Deftgn might ha-ve gone a great
way.
In Confequence of the firft Apparition, they
snade the poor Friar undergo fevere Difcipline,
Whipping and Mortifications, and then the Appa-
]fition came and thank'd him, and told him he was
^gliyer'd out of Purgatory by his Means 5 fo that
'
' '
Pari
ef APPARITIONS. 359
Part ended, to the infinite Satisfaction of the poor
macerated Friar.
The next was the Apparition of the fame Per-
fbn, but in the Habit of a Nun^ rcprefenting Si. Bar-
bara^ and all in Glory > telling him, that the
blefled Virgin was fo delighted with his Zeal and
Devotion, chat fhe would vifit him the next Day
in Perfon, and give him her Bencdiflion for Con-
folation in his Sufferings aijd Mortifications; at
which the Fool (the Friar I mean) was raviflied
with Joy, and prepar'd himfelfand the whole Convent
to receive her.
At the appointed time, the expcSred Delufion
appeared : The blefied Virgin, clothed with the ^
utmoft Magnificence, drefs'd up with Jewels, as
{he ufed to be on Occafionof the moft folemnFefti-
vals 5 attended by Angels which were feen to be
flying about her, as her Pages.
N. B. They were the little carnfd Angels which
were placed in the Church upon extraordinary
T>ays^ and noiv placed as Machines about the
Apparition^ and lifted up in the Air^ with Puh
lies faften'd in the Room aho've,
T N this Equipage, the Lady Queen of Heaven,
Mother of God, was brought in Apparition to her
poor mortify'd and humble Servant j fhe careft him
with high Expreflions of Affedion to him, extol-
ling the Merit of his Charity, in fuffering fuch Se-
verities for the meer Love of delivering a poor
tormented Soul out of Purgatory j own'd to him,
that ill e was conceived in original Sin 5 and told him
Pope JuliuSy who then held the Chair, fhould put
a final End to all thofe Difputes, and lliould abolifli
the Featl of her Conception. After much more
to the fame purpofc, fhe promifed him a Miffion to
go to the holy Father in her Name, to afiure him
of the Truth of the Vifion, and that it was her -
Pleafure it fhould be fo> and in Confirmation of it
A a 4 all.
3^o The Hifiory and Reality
all, flie gave him three Drops of Blood, which flie
told him were the Tears Chrift fhed, when he
wept over Jerufalem ^ with abundance of fuch like.
Here was a true fham Apparition now, form'd
to eftablifh a particular Sc6b or Society j and a parti-
cular Profefiion, concerning the immaculate Concep-
tion 5 here could the impatient Friars have fet Bounds
to their Revenge, they had had a compleat Vi6tory
over the Francifcans. ^Nay, had St. Francis himfelf
come up in Apparition on the other fide, it would
not have balanc'd the Cheat j for all the World
began to give ^Yedit to the Apparition.
But the Priefts knew no Bounds 5 nothing would
fcrve them but new Apparifions to the Friar, and
new Mvortifications to the Francifcans > 'till in fhort
Jetzer himfelf, as foolifli and fimple as he was, faw
through it, detedted the Cheat, and efcaping out
of the Monaftery, difcover'd it all to the Magi-
flrates, having twice efcaped being poifon'd by
them 5 fp the whole Fraud ended at the Gallows,
or rather at the Stake, for the four Friars were
condemned to be burnt, and were executed accor-
dingly..
The Hiftory of the Difcovery is not to my
Purpofe, it may be feen in many Authors, as alfo
the Tryal, Sentence, and Execution of the Crimir
nals ^x. Bern^ May 31, ifop, where they were all
burnt together. But this Part is efFe61:ually to my
Purpofe, viz. that there has been, and I doubt not
llill is, a great deal of fham /Apparition impos'd
upon the World by the Delufions of others > and as
it lies chiefly among the Clergy, where mufl we
look for it, but where it is to be found?
Nor are the Pagan Clergy free from the fame
vile Pra61:ices, namely, to forge Apparitions to con-
firm their Delufions j and the Hiftory of all Coun-
tries are full of Accounts of it, too many to repeat
here.
Th e
of APPARITIONS. i6i
The PoiTeflions and Exorcifms in the difmal
Story of the Devils of Loudon^ are full of Appari-
tions and Vifions, by which the wretched Fraud
was carried on, and by which fo much Villany was
prafbis'd, as is almoft without Example > a Story
which has already fill'd a Book, and is extant in
many Languages 5 a Fraud not out-done by the
Brachmans and Priefts of the Pagans in Chim^ or
in Japan,
I MIGHT next entertain you with fliam Appa^-
ritions put in Pradice by the Devil himfelf, in thofe
Countries where he has made himfelf be worfhip-
ped as a God, and where he fupports all the Devil-
worfhip by Apparition > fhowing himfelf now one
way, now another, as he finds it for his Purpofe;
appearing one Day in Fire and Flame, at another
time in Storm and Tempeft, at a third time in Humane
and Familiar Shape 5 and in all the End is to keep up
the Dread of his Perfon in the Minds of his Worfliip-
pers, and to preferve a Reverence to his Inftitutions,
whatever they arc.
I F we may believe our Writers of Travel^, and
Obfervers of Things, the Devil not only aflumes
Humane Shape, but infinuates himfelf in the real
Perfon of a Devil to the Women, and fo poffefles
them, (to fay no more of it) as to commit
horrid namelcfs Wickedneffes with them, fuch as
are not to be fuggefled without Horror. In other
Places, the Apparition of the Devil is the Fund of
all their religious Worfhip, and he has Altars ere-
cted, and Sacrifices, nay, which is worfe, Human
Sacrifices offered to him.
I N thefe horrid Performances, he appears in ter-
rible Shapes, and the poor Natives are fo frighted
at him, that the Fear only excites the Homage
which they pay to him, and fecures to him an en-
tire Sovereignty : for Fear, may, for ought I know,
be the Chara6teriftick of a Pagan Worfhip, as Love
is that of a Chriftian, Thje
^St 77:e Hijiory and Realky
The Great Temple of Montezuma at Mexico
was licrle elfe but a horrible Butchery of Humane
Carcases, the Blood of which lay fprinkled or
daih'd againft the Walls, 'till it lay there har-
dened and congeal'd, if Reporr may be believ'dY a-
bove a Foot thick, and that they facrifiz'd at leafl
twentythoufand People a Year, in that one Pagode
or Temple.
The Indians confefs'd^ that they had frequent
Apparitions among them of the Spiritis, which they
called by feveral Names v and that the Great
Spirit, that is the Devil^ alfo appeared to them up-
on their Great Feftivals, in bright and extraordi-
nary Apparition > to approve and accept of their
Worfliip and Homage, and no doubt of their Sa-
crifices too.
In Cochin China we are told the Devil goes far-
ther 'y for he not only fhows himfelf in Apparition,
but he utters lying Oracles, even himfelf in his pro-
per Perfon, and alfo whifpers fuch Anfwers to the
Priefts, as ferve to keep up a Decorum in their
Worfhip, and a fecret Reverence to his Perfon.
And Father Borri fays, the Devil walks about there
fo frequently, and fo familiarly in Humane Shapes,
that they are not at all difturb'd at him.
A T other times, as the fame Author affirms,
they aflbciate themfelves with particular Perfons,
upon various Occafions, and efpecially with the
Women, as above 5 fo that, in fhort, in fome Cities,
which are very populous, it would be fomething hard
'
to diftinguifh between the real People and the Ap-
paritions. How far, if ic were examined into, in
would not be the \\kt among us, I won't pretend to
fty-
Who knows, in our Throngs of divided Chri-
ftians, whether he meets with a Saint or an Appa-
rition 'y whether he talks with a Counfellor or a Devil ?
and the art of difcerning would indeed be well
worth
^
of APPARlttONS. ^6^
worth having*, indeed, it would be worth buying,
if Money would purchafe it. The Devil's Difguifes
are very many, and Apparition is one of the beft
of them, becaufe he can foon change Shapes, and
change Poftures, which in other Gales he may find
lefs advantageous to his Intereft. Nor is it eafy
for Mankind to come to the Certainty, even when
he fees an Apparition, whether it be a Good or an
Evil Appearance j and the beft way of finding it
out, except that of judging by the Errand becomes
on, and which I have mentioned already, is to ask
it the Queftion direftly j if it equivocates and
ihuffles, conclude 'tis the i)m/> for he is a Sharper,
and a Diflembler from the Beginning ; if *tis a good
Spirit, it will anfwer you direftly and honeftly, and
tell you its Bufinefs at oncej and this is what I
mean, where I fay. Speak 1*0 it.
1 F you find it is a good Spirit hearken to it j if
the Devilj defie it 5 and whether it be a good or
evil Spirit, fear it not y for both are under the fpe-
cial Dire61:ion and Authority of him {hat made the
World, and will govern it, in whofe Hands you
are J and 'tis well it is foj For as Good is above
Evil, fo God is above the Devil. Tell him Co^
and bid him Defiance, and if you can but do it
with a good Heart he's gone; depend upon it,
he'll never ft and you, Probatum eft. But I muft
leave off the religious Cheats, for they are txidl^k^
'tis time to talk of Apparitions of another nature,
lefs ferious, and lefs tirefome to hear of.
CHAP,
7
3^4 ^^ Hijiory and Reality
CHAP. XV.
Of Imaginary Apparitions^ the Apparitions
of Fancy^ Vapours^ waking T)reamsy de-
lirious HeadsJ and the Hyppo.
AS the Devil is not fo Black as he is Painted,
fo neither does he appear in fomany Shapes
as we niake for him 5 we Drefs him up in more
Suits of Cloaths, and more Mafquerade Habits, than
ever he wore > and I queftion much, if he was to
fee the Pi6tures and. Figures which we call Devil^
whether he would know himfelf by fome of them
or no.
It would require more Skill than, I doubt, I
am Mafter of, to bring you all to a right Method
of thinking upon this Subjecl 1 however I fhall
venture upon it by way of ElTay, that you may
form fuch Images of the old Gentleman in your
Mind, that you may not be cheated about him,
may know him when you fee him, may not call
him out of his Name, or bellow his Right Wor-
fhipful Titles upon another.
It is obfervable, that tho' moft People in all
Parts of the World allow there is fuch a thing as a
Devily an evil Spirit, an Arch-Enemy of Mankind 5
and they are pretty near one another in their feve-
ral Notions of him 5 for even thofe Savages that:
worfhip him, acknowledge they do fo only that he
may not hurt them 5 yet they differ exceedingly in
their Ideas of his Perfon, and that almofl every
where j and accordingly it follows that they muft
differ in their Reprefentations and Pi£tures of him.
Some
of APPAR If IONS. 3(Jj
Some Paint him one way, fomc another 5 an d
yet I obfervc that fo little good Will they have
X for him any where, that they all Picture him as
ugly, as monftrous, and as deform'd as they can.
I HAVE heard of fome Pagans who worfliip
a black Cloud for the Devil^ becaufe it often fpeaks
in Noifes, and breathes out Fire. 1 cannot fay but
worfliipping the Sun for a God^ and the Thunder
and Lightening for a Devils feems to me to have
more Senfe in it than many of the other Branches of
Idolatry in the World 5 the one being the molt
natural refemblance of the greateft Good, and the
other of the greateft Evil in the World.
)
Some, I am told, refemble or reprefent the
Devil by a vaft great Globe of Wood carv'd or
cut all over into Mouths, defcrib'd in a thou-
fand different Diftortions, gaping, grining, and vo-
racious Figures j all intimating a greedy unquench-
able Thirft or Appetite to devour and deftroy j
rolHng itfcif continually about, fo that fome of its
thoufand of Mouths being undermoft, are always
gaping and biting, and taking in fomething, but
ever unfatisfy'd, the reft of 'em gaping llill for
more. If this hideous Reprefentation is not juft
to his Form, I think verily it is juft to his Nature,
and is very Emblematick ; the Thoughts it gives
Birth to in our Fancy, may not be fo remote as are
form'd by thofe fimple, Comick, and yet wou'd-be-
frightful Draughts we draw of him j with a Cock's
Bill^ Afs's Ears, Goat's Horns, glaring Eyes, Batts
Wings, cloven Foot, and Dragon's Tail- 5 not one
of which, except the laft, having either Antiquity
or Authority for them, that I know of.
It's true, he is defcrib'd in the Apoca lypfe as a
great red Dragon, and in another Place as a Beaft,
but neither of them give us any true Idea of his
real Form.
Now
$66 The Hijiory and Reality
Now if we do not know his Figure, how fhall
we know him in Apparition? for if we know no-
thing of his real Shape, how fhall we judge of him
in his Difguife? How/(hall we (ingle him out up-
on Occafion? Suppofe we were to look for him
at a Mafquerade > For my Part I cannot deny but
I might miftakc him, and pitch upon a Prieft, or
a Turk, a Tinker or a Tarpaulin, and fay this is
the Devil^ or that is the Devil, as foon as the real
Hydra-pater himfelf, and let him pafs perhaps for a
No'lody worth taking Notice of.
As then, Ifay^ we have fuch unguided Notions
of him, and know him fo little in any of his un-
couth Figures and Difguifes, 'tis not fo much won-
der that we miftake every ugly mif-fhapen mon-
Urous Thing, and call it by his venerable Name.
How often has poor unhappy fhapelels Z
M been flarted at, even in the open Day j
nay, in the very Sun-ihine ? Blefs me ! fays a fine
Lady in the Mall, one Day as fhe pafs'd him,
fure that's the Demi : Why Sifter, fays fhe to the
Lady that was next her, did not you fee it? I'll
be gone, I am frighted out of my Wits : Why if I
Ihould meet ir again, I fhall fink into the Ground
:
I'm forry I did not fee him, fays the Sifter, for I
want mightily to fee the Devil j but I was hap-
pily better employ'd, for juft that Moment Sir
G Z)-— , that Glory of Heroes, the
brighteft of Men, went by me 5 ray Soul flew a-
long with him, dear Sifter, 'tis hardly come back
yet.
O ! you're happy, Sifter, you faw a Heavenly,
I an Infernal i you an Arch- Angel, 1 the Devil: lee
roe go. Sifter, for I am undone if I fee him a-
gainj if I were with Child I fliould bring forth
a Monfter.
He had not gone twenty Yards farther, but a
Knot of Ladies met him 3 if fcems they were Ro-
man
of AP PARITIO NS. jtjy
man CathoUcks^ and they all crolVd themfelves and
look'd up to Heaven, faid every one of them an
jlve and a Pater^ and went on as fait as they
could.
A Lady big with Child had the Misfortune
to be next, who was fo frighted, fhe fell into Fits,
went home, and Mifcarried j and laflly, which was
more unhappy, juil as he llept out of the Mallj
at the turning to St. James*%^ he almoft joflled a-
nother Lady that was nearer her Time, and fhe
immediately cail'd for a Chair, was carried away,
fell into Travel, and died in Child-bed.
And yet this Piece of Deformity, this Scare
Devil^ Z— M , is an honefl good-hu-
mour'd Fellow as lives, and I happen'd to fee him
foon after.
What have you done, Zach ? faid /, was you
in the Park to Day?
. Yes I wx^ fays he. Why, what's the Matter,
have any of the Ladies fallen in Love with me?
Yes, yes, fays /, you put the whole Mall in
an Uproar.
I T H o u G T fo, fays he\ \ knew I fhould have
Admirers as well as other Beaus : Why not, pray?
but let 'em die, I am Inexorable.
But do you know what Mifchief you have
done? faid I in Earneft.
Not I, fays he^ but I fuppofe I may have
frighted fomebody or other with my Devil's Face 5
and what then? how can I help it? If they don'E
like roe, they may look off o' me.
Why no, fays /, it feems they can't.
N o, no, Beauty is attractive, you know, and fo
is Deformity, fays he-y if you meet a Will with a-
Wifp you can't look off of it : They will look at
me, they can't help ir, and they look fo long you
fee, that I fright every now and then one or two
of them into Love with me.
Hard
3 (58 The Hiftory and ReaTtty
Hard Fate of the Sex, [aid /, Zach. that Meti
fhould be fo fcarce they muft be in Love with ttie
Dbv'iL I am perfuaded many of them take you for
an Apparition.
That's a Sign of horrid Ignorance, fays he
merrily y why, he is not half fo ugly as I am. 'Tis
a fign they don't know him> I tell you the De-
'viPs a comely Fellow to me^ Jack,
Thou art an ugly Dog, that's true, faid /, but
thou art the beft-humour'd, goodeft-natur'd Crea-
ture alive, faid I: upon my Word, I'd be Z
M , though I frighted all the Ladies in the
Park, to have half the Wit, and Senfc, and good
Humour that is cover'd with fo much Defor-
mity.
And I'd be any thing tut IVJO^ fays he^ to be
but ju(t tolerable to Mankind, and not fright the
Horfe 1 ride on.
But two! What two pray?y^/i /. Are there
two Things you wou'd not change for?
Yes, fays Z , I wou'd not be a Fool or a
Beggar-, but efpecially not the firft.
Now what is the Cafe of this unhappy Gen-
tleman? 'tis quite the Reverie of what the Ladies
take him for^ one fays he is the Devil^ and ano-
ther fays 'tis the Devil, and another that 'tis an
Apparition J and the laft is true. Bur, of what? not
of the Devil, I afTure you. Apparitions, they fay,
generally afTume a different Likenefsj the Devil
never Mafques in Deformity, an Angel may> the
Devil often puts on the Beau, and the Beauty -y he is
to day a fmart young rattling Fop, to-morrow a
Smirk, a Spruce, a Harlequin y to-day he is a de-
vout Lady at Prayers, to-morrow a Coquet, a
Mafquer at the Ball > but 'tis all fine and clever:
he very rarely puts on Uglinefs, for that woU'd be
no Dilguife to him.
On
of AP P ARITI N S. 3(^p
O N the contrary, when a bright Seraph drefTes
in Form, it takes up the Extreme of its Contriry^
and a Divine and exalted Soul may put on the Ha-
bit of an unfightly Carcafs, to appear in the World
in a more compleat Mafquerade 3 and thus it was
with my Friend Zach. Ma——, his Outfide was
indeed a Mafquerade to him, he was perfedly th^
Reverfe of what he appear'd, and he had the
brighteft at)d fublimefl: Soul that was ever wrapt
up in Flefli and Blood, in the Pofture or Habit
of fomething uglyer to look on than the Devih
In a word, he was a Devil to the Imagination,
for every body thought of the Devil when they
faw him> went home and told their Maids and.
their Children they had feen the Devil, and told
it over To often, 'till they believ'd it themfelves,
and fo made a real Apparition of him, as it were
by the mere force of his extraordinary Counte-
nance.
Yet* the honefl: Gentleman had no Horns on his
Head, no Cock's Bill, or a cloven Foot, I aflure
you J but was meer Zach, M-—-, as merry and as
gpod-humour'd a Creature as everliv'd j full of Wit,
Mafter of Learning, Temper, and a thoufand good
Quahties, without one bad one j nothing amifs ia
him, or about him, but his Outfide, and as to thac
nothing fo frightful in the three Kingdoms.
Now if meeting poor mortify'd merry Zacb.
M fhou'd raife the Vapours among us, and
from a little Jefting at firft, fright the poor La-
dies into Mifcarriagc, Travel, and the Grave> make
them go home, and fay in Jeft, they had {cen
the DevilJ 'till they believ'd it in Earneft : what
will not the like ungovernable Fancy, and Power
of a frighted Imagination, prevail upon us to think
or fay?
A SOBER grave Gentleman, who mufl. not wear
a Name in our Story, becaufe it was rather a Di-
B b ftemper
370 The Hifiory and Reality
ftemper in his Mind than a real Deficiency of Brains,
had, by a long Difufe of the fprightly Part of his
Senfe, which he really had no want of at other
times, fufFer'd himfclf to fink a little too low in
his Spirits, and let the Hypochondria emit too ftrong-
ly in Vapour and Fumes up into his Head. This
had its Fits and its Intervals 5 fometimes he was clear-
fighted, and clear- headed, but at other times he faw
Stars at Noon-day, and Devils at Night : In
a word, the World was an Apparition to his Ima-
gination, when the Flatus prevailed, and the Spleen
boiPd upj of all which he could give no account,
nor could he aflift the Operation of Phyfick by any
of his own Powers towards a Cure.
It happen'd that he was abroad at a Friend's
Houfe later than ordinary one Night, but being
Moon-light, and a Servant with him, he was eafy,
and was obferved to be very chearful, and even
Merry^ with a great deal of good Humour, more
than had been obferved of him for a great while be-
fore.
He knew his Way perfeftly well, for it was
within three Miles of the Town where he liv'd,
and he was very well mounted 5 but tho' the Moon
was up, an Accident which a little diforder'd him
was, that it was not only cloudy, but a very thick,
black Cloud came fuddenly, (that is to fay, without
his Notice, fo it was fuddenly to him) and fpread
over his Head, which made it very dark j and to
add to the Diforder, it began to rain violently.
Upon this, being very well mounted, as I have
faid, he refolved to ride for it, having not above
two Miles to the Town^ fo clapping Spurs to his
Horfe, he gallop'd away. His Man, whofe Name
was Gervais^ not being fo well mounted, was a good
way behind. The Darknefs and the Rain together
put him a little out of Humour j but as that
was
c^/y-''///^/?^ .^Cf^/^J. Ta-</ .
<} yc>
.
\
of APPARITIONS. 371
was a little unexpefted perhaps it made him ride
the harder, rather than abated his Pace.
In the Way there was a fmall River, but there
was a good Bridge over it, well walled on both
fides } fo that there was no Danger there, more than
any where elfe: But the Gentleman kept on his
fpcedto go over the Bridge, when being rather more
than half over, his Horfe ftopt on a fudden, and re-
fufed,as we call it, bearing off to the right hand) he
faw nothing at firft, and was not much difcompos'd
at it, but fpurr'd his Horfe to go forward; the
Horfe went two or three Steps, then ftopt again,
fnorted, and ftared, and then offer'd to turn fhorc
back y then the Gentleman looking forward to fee
what was the matter, and if he could obferve what
the Horfe was feared at, faw two broad ftaring Eyes,
which, as he faid, look'd him full in the Face.
Then he was heartily frighted indeed 5 but by
this time he heard his Man Gervais coming up.
When Gervais came near, the firft thing he heard
his Mafter fay, was •
Bkfs me^ it is the Devil/
at which Gervais^ a low-fpirited Fellow, was as
much frighted as his Mafter. However, his Mafter,
a little encouraged to hear his Man fo near him,
prcfs'd his Horfe once more, and call'd aloud to Ger^
vais to come j but he, as I faid, being frighted too,
made no hafte: at length with much ado his Mafter,
fpurring his Horfe again, got over the Bridge, and
pafled by the Creature with broad Eyes, which (the
Light a little encreafing)hcaffirm'dpofitively, when
he was pafs'd, was a great blaek Bear, and confe-
quently muft be the Devil,
Tho' Gervais was near enough, yet fearing his
Mafter would fet him to go before, he kept as far
off as he could : When his Mafter call'd he an-
fwer'd indeed, but did not come on, at leaft did not
make mnch hafte j but feeing his Mafter was gone
paft, and that he himfelf was then obliged to fol-^
B b 2, low,
572 "The Hijiory and Redlity
low, he went on foftly, and when he came to the
Bridge, he faw what it was his Mailer's Horfefnorted
at, and refufed to go on 3 of which you ihall hear
more prefently.
His Mafter's Horfe being got paft the Difficul-
ty, needed no Spurs, but (as frighted Horfes will)
flew away like the Wind j and the Rain continu-
ing, his Mafter, who on many Accounts was wil-
ling to be at home, let him go> fo that he was at
home and got into the Houfe, long before his Man
jfervajs could get up with him.
The Mafter, as foon as he came into the Light,
fwoon'd away, and the Fright had had fuch an ef-
fe6b upon him, that when with much Difficulty they
had brought him to himfelf, he continued very ill j
and when his Lady, and a Sifter he had in the
Houfe with him, as much over-run with the Hyppo
as himfelf, came to enquire what had happened to
him, he told them a formal Story, that at fuch a
Bridge he met the Devil y that he placed himfelf
juft at the coming off from the Bridge, on
his left hand, at the Corner of the Wall > that he
ftood and ftared in his Face, and that he could di-
ftindly perceive it was the Devil in the Shape of a
Bear : He gave other Defcriptions, fo pundual and
particular, that there was no room to doubt but it
was ^n Apparition, and that it was in the Shape
of a great Bear.
GE RFAIS came home foon after, and going in-
to the Stable dire6tly, as was his Bufinefs, to take care
of his Mafter's Horfe as well as his own, there he told
the Story his Way, among the other Servants, and
efpecially two or three Grooms, and Servants belong-
ing to Gentlemen that were Neighbours 5 and he
tells them, that his Mafter was in great danger of
being thrown over the Wall of the Bridge, for
that his Horfe was frighted at an Afs which ftood
juft at the Corner of the Walli and it was my
Fault
of A?PARIT10 N S. 171
Fault indeed, fays Gervaisy for it was a young Horfe,
and I had never told my Mailer > but it was a Trick
he had got that he could not abide an A(s, and
would by no means come near one if he could help it.
And are you fure 'twas an Afs, Gervais ? fays the
other Servants, llaring at one another as if they were
frighted : Are you fure of it? Yes, fays Gervais^ for
as foon as my Mafter got by it, I rid up to it and
threfli'd it with my Stick, and it fell a braying,
which you know, fays Gervais^ is a bafe ugly Noife,
and fo I came away and left it.
Why Gervais^ fay they, your Mafter believes
it was the Bevil^ as really as if he had fpoken to ir.
1 'm forry my Mafter fhould be fo frighted, fays
Jervais'y but I am very fure it was nothing but an
jifs. But the Story had gotten Vent, and the firft
Part of it flew all over the Town that Mr.
had feen the Devil^ and was almoft frighted to
Peath.
Then came his Man Jarvis's Tale, and made
it appear that Mr. ——'s ftrange and wonderful
Apparition was dwindled into an Afs, and that the
Devil he had feen in the Shape of a Bear was no
more than a poor Borkco^ as the Italians call him 5
this made his Mafter be laught at fufSciently.
However, poor Jarvis or Gervais was fain to
turn out, and loft his Place for itj and the wife
Mr.' to this Day infifts upon it, that 'twas
the Devil^ and he knew him by his broad Eyes j
tho' 'tis known that a Bear has very little Eyes : but
'tis impoffible to perfwade any Vapourifh Body,
that they have not feen the Devil, if they have but
feen fomething, and that they are very fure, they are
not fure what it is.
I REMEMBER a Delufion almoft as grofs, the
Memory of which 1 believe reniains for a Truth
to this day. Not far ofF of the Town of Darking
in Surrey^ the People, or fome People rather, cn-
B b 3
'
tertainec^
The Hijiory and Reality
tertained a Notion/rom the following Paflagc, that
a Ghofl walk'd in fuch a Place j that fhe (for it
was an antient Lady lately dead) was feen hovering
about the Manfion-houfe which was left uninha-
bited for fome time, that fhe would be up and down
in the Houfe very often, in the Day-time, making
a rumbling, and a clattering Noifej and in the
Night-time fhe walk'd in the neighbouring Fields
with a Candle in her Hand, and that tho' the Wind
blew ever fo hard, it would not blow the Candle
out 5 that fometimes fhe would appear in the open
Field, fometimes up in the Trees, and particularly
there was a little Heath near Barking called the
Cottman Dean^ where it was faid fhe was frequently
feen.
There was a Boarding-fchool of Boys in that
Town, where there was in particular fome roguifh
London Boys, who contrived all this Walking from
thcBeginning to theEnd 5 Firfl, they got a fmall Rope,
and tying one end of it to an old Chair which flood
in an upper Room of the Houfe, (for they had
found means to get in and out of the Houfe at
pleafure) they brought the other end of the Rope
down on the Out-fide of the Houfe in a private
Place where it could not eafily be feen, and by
this they pulled the old Chair up, and then let it
fall down again, and made a great Noife in the
Houfe, fo as it might be eafily heard by the Neigh-
bours 5 then other Boys of the fame Gang took care
to call out to the old Women in the next Houfes,
that now they might hear the old Lady a playing
her Pranks j and accordingly they would all ai-
femble in the Court-yard, where they could plainly
hear it, but not one would venture to go up Stairs.
If any offered to go up a little way, then all was
quiet again J but as foon as ever they retired, the
rumbling would begin again : This was for the
Day.
In
of AP P A R IT 10 NS. 37J
I N the Night, one of thefe unlucky Boys had
gotten a dark Lanthorn, which was a thing the
Country People did not underftand, and with this
he walk'd all about the Orchard, and two or three
Clofcs near the Houfe, fometimes {hewing the Light
on this fide, and then his Comrades calling all the
old Women about 'em to fee it, on a fudden the
Light would go out, the Boy clofing up the Lan-
thorn > and then he would run fwiftly crofs the whole
Field, and ihew his Light again on the other fide.
Now he would be up in a Tree, then in the Road,
then upon the middle of the Heath 5 fo that the
Country People made no more Queftion, but that
the old Lady walk'd with a Candle in her Hand,
than that they faw the Light of it 3 and in a word,
it pafs'd for an iVpparition as certainly as we on
the other hand knew what Knavery agitated it all.
It muftbe confefs'd that a dark Lanthorn, join'd
with an Enthufiaftick Head, might prevail to make
fuch a Sham take, with weak and bigotted Peo-
ple, and they were mighty willing to fay before-
hand that they were fure fomething walk'd.
When they heard the Chair tumble about in
the Chamber, tho' pulled by a String and no body
near it, no nor in the whole Houfe, the People who
came together in the Court-yard, fancy'd often the
faw Heads of People moving up and down the
Room where the Noife was, and one faid pofitively
fhe faw a white Head-drefs.
But to reali:^© the Delufion, one cry'd our.
There's the Spirit, there's the Ghoft, juft at fuch a
Place of the Window j and affirm'd it flood clofe to
the Glafs, and defcrib'd it 5 another, as Moon-blind
as her felf, fays^ Ay, fo it does, and points perem-
ptorily to the Place, declaring that fhe fees it plain-
ly i and thus they run away with it all together, that
the Ghoft walks and the Houfe is haunted, and for
a long time it is belicv'd no other 5 when he^c
B b 4 was
The Hifiory mid Reality
was nothing but the mean Contrivance of a few
Boys.
The Notion of Spirits appearing to difcover
where Money has been buried, to dire6b People
to dig for it, has fo univerfally prevails with Wo*
mankind, 1 might fay and even with Mankind too,
that it is impoflible to beat it out of their Heads
;
and if they fhould fee any thing which they call
an Apparition, they would to this Day follow it, in
hope to hear it give a Stamp on the Ground, as
with its Foot, and then vaniflij and did it really do
fo, they would not fail to dig to the Center (if they
were able) in hopes of finding a Pot of Money hi4
there, or fome old Urn with Afhes and Roman Me-
dals 'y in ihort, or fome confiderable Treafure.
A COUNTRY Gentleman had an old-built Houfe,
which was the Remains of an old Demolifhed Mo-
mftery or Religious Houfe, and he refolvcd to have
it pull'd dov^n, but thought the Charge too much
to beftow i fo he bethought himfelf of a Stratagem,
which was to give it out that the Houfe was haunt-
ed, and this he did fo artificially, that it began to
be currently believed > for he made a Fellow drefs
himfelf up in White, and pafs fwiftly crofs the inner
Court of the Houfe, juft at a time when he had
appointed others to be at the Window to fee it.
They gave Notice to the Houfe that there was
an Apparition > then the Mafter and Miftrefs and all the
Family were called up to the Window, where, tho'
it was fo dark that they could not diflinguilh what
he was, yet they plainly faw the thing in white
go crofs the Yard, and in. at a Door of the old
Building 3 foon after it was in they perceiv'd
a Flafh of Fire in the Houfe, which was contriv'4
that the Fellow fhould make with fome Brimflone
and other Materials on purpofe, fo that it fhould
leave a Stench of Sulphur behind it, but not be juft
the Smell of Gunpowder,
As
of APPARITIONS. J77
A s he expefbed, it began to work > fome fanciful
People having notice of it, and being defirous to
fee the fame Apparition, had the occafion ofFer'd
them, and faw it in its ufual manner of {howing ic
felfJ its frequent walking was ordinary, at one pare
of the Houfe where the Spirit had an opportunity
to flip out at a Door into another Yard, and fointo
the dwelling Houfe 5 and when it went off that
way it gave a great flamp with its Foot, and im-
mediately it was gone.
Upon this it was prefently faid there was Mo-
ney hid, and the Gentleman gave it out that he
would dig there for it, and mighty eager People
were to have it done j however the Gentleman
feem'd to cool in the matter: ftill the Apparition
was feen to come and go, walk to and again, almofl;
every Night, and ordinarily it vaniOi'd in a flaih of
Fire as above, which in a word was very extraor-
dinary.
;; At length fome of the Towns People in the
Village adjoyning, finding the Gentleman began to
flight or negleft it, gave out, that if Efquire
would give them leave, they would dig, for that
certainly Money was hid there 3 nay if he would
confent they fhould have it if they found it, they
would dig for it and find it too, tho' they digged
the whole Houfe do.wn.
The Gentleman reply'd, that was not fair for
them to pull his Houfe down and have all they
found too, that was too hard; but he would con-
fent to this, That provided they would carry
away all the Rubbifh, and all the Materials which
they dug down, and pile up the Bricks and Timber
in the Yard near the Houfe, and would be content
with half they found, he would give them leave
to dig,
: Well, they confented, and to work they
Wenti the Spirit or Apparition which appear'd at
V ^ firll
^jS The Hiftory and Reality
firft feem'd to point out the Place, and the firft
thing they took down was a great ftack of Chim-
nies, and a heavy piece of work it was 5 but the
Gentlemajijwilling to encourage them, fecretly hid
feven and twenty Pieces of old Gold in a hole in
the Chimney, which had no entrance into it but
by one paflage, which he Brick'd up.
When they came to this Money they were
perfeftly deluded, and out of their Wits 5 the Gen-
tleman happen'd to be near, but not juft upon the
Spot when it was found, and he being call'd, very
frankly gave it them all j but upon Condition they
fliould not expert the like, if they found any more.
I N a word,this Bite made the Country Fellows work
like Horfes, and more came into the knot j but that
which encourag'd them farther was, they did really
lind feveral things of Value in the pulling down the
Houfe, which perhaps had lain hid from the time
of Demolifliing it as a religious Houfej and fomc
Money was found tooj but continual expectation
and hope of finding more fo animated the Fellows,
that in fliort they pull'd the whole Houfe down 5
nay, I might fay they puU'd it up by the Roots,
for they dug up the very Foundations, which was
what the Gentleman defir'd, [and would have given
a great deal of Money to have had done.
Nor did they leave the Houfe in a heap of
Rubbifh 'y but, according to his Agreement with
them, they carried the Materials away, and fet up
the Timber and old Bricks in an adjacent Yard as
he directed them, and in good order too.
So violent was the Perfuafion, that (upon this
fancy'd Apparition walking in the Houfe) Money
was hid there, that nothing could flop the eager-
nefs of the Country People in working j as if the
Souls of the old Nuns or Friars, or whatever they
were who had hid any Treafure there, fuppofing
any was hid, could not be at Reft, as was faid in
other
of APPARITIONS. 379
Other Cafes, or could be any way concerned for the
finding it fo many Years afterward, being almolt
two hundred Years.
I F they could fuppofe any thing fo'weak, where
muft they fuppofe thofe Departed Souls or Ghofts
could have been, during all that time? and why did
they not appear before? what had all the Ages be-
tween done to be fo much leis in their Favour, that
they did not come to difcover this Money to
them ? but that the Depofit fhould remain untr
Ground fo long, without any enquiry after t,
'till this Age, not at all more worthy than their
Anceftors, ihould be inform'd of it.
There is not a thing in Nature fo generally
receiv'd, which has fo little Foundation, either in
Reafon or Religion, either in Nature or common
Senfe j it feems not only abfurd, but ridiculous j
there is not only no religious Reafon in it, but it
is inconfiftent with it felt : what feems only won-
derful and unaccountable in it is, that fuch grols
things fliould make fuch Impreflions, and that it
fhould be fo impofEble to beat it out of the Heads
of the poflefs'd People.
If you ihould offer to tell them that no hidden
Money was ever thus difcover'd, they would laugh
at it as the greateft Jeft imaginable, and tell you
there were five hundred Examples to the contrary 5
and yet in all my Search after thofe things, and after
evidence of Faft, I cannot arrive to one Example,
where ever an Apparition directed to the finding
Money hid in the Ground or Earth, or any other
place, and that any Authentick Voucher has been
brought to prove it. I know there have been many,
perhaps thoufand9,of fuch Stories told, and the Parti-
culars are handed down with them j but I fay I never
met with any Authentick Proof of the Fad, fuch
as that the Story might be told after them for Truth,
and that a Man might fay without Blufhing that he
believ'd
The Hiftory and Reality
believ'd it. And let us but enter a little into the
ufual manner in which thofe Tales are related,
there feems to be fomething fo weak and filly in
the telling, as if it was only calculated for Children
and Chimney corners : for Example j the Apparition
is caird a Ghoft, 'tis drefs'd up (to fuit the weak-
T\t^s of the Imagination) in a Shrowd, as if it came
juft out of the Coffin and the Church-yard, and as
if the Habit of the Dead was afTum'd^to pofTefs the
People with the Fancy of its being really the dead
Body of the Perfon, and yet allow it at the fame
time to be a Spirit.
Well, when it comes, and (be it what you
will) forms it felf in Apparition, all in white, and
in a Shroud J what is next? it fays nothing to you,
but goes away before you > and perhaps fpeaks and
bids you go or come along with it, or perhaps
without fpeaking at all, leading and beckoning the
Parties they have appeared to, to follow them, and
then flamping with the Foot it difappears at
once.
This Stamp with the Foot is reckon'd to be a
Dire6tion to you to dig juft there, in order to find
fome extraordinary Treafure j and he would be
reckon'd very ftupid and fordidly dull that fhould
negle6b the Dire6tion, and not dig there'j and many
a vain and fruitlefs Pit has been dug on fuch occa-«
iions, to no purpofe at all.
But that I may not declare my Infidelity in
thefe things in an unreafonable manner, and disbe-
lieve without any jufl Reafon ; let me give you a
long Story, which feems to be left upon Record, of
a Pedlar in the Town of in Suffolk^ a
Story believ'd as certainly as the Gofpel jand which
it would be thought very abfurd for any one ta
queftion the Truth of.
There was a Pedlar, fays the Story ^ who us'd
to travel about the Country with his Pack, but
of APP ARiriO NS. 381
kept a Chamber or Ware-houfe in the Market-
Town for the depofiting and laying up fome Goods
which he had there, and which were too many at
a time to carry them all about with him.
I T happened that this Man having been abroad
late, and coming home with his Pack, fat himfelf
down upon a Stile, refting his Pack at the fame
time for his Eafe: while he fat here, there came up
to him a Ghoft, in the Appearance of a Woman
drefs'd as above j fhe came up to him with a fmiling
Countenance, and when flie difcover'd her felf fhe
ilept backward, and holding up a fine white Hand
beckoned to hifti with a Finger to follow her.
The Pedlar, frighted as he was, immediately
foUow'd the Apparition 5 (what he did in the mean
time with his Pack that's a gap in the Story, which
Tradition has not fupply'd 5) the Apparition leads'
him in this manner, going backward and beckon^
ing with her Hand over two or three Fields, 'till ic
came to a particular place, where there lay a great
Scone, and there giving a ftamp with its Foot ic
vanifhed.
The Man takes the hint, marks the Stone,
goes home to carry his Pack, as we ought to fup-
pofe, and comes out the next Night with a Spade
and a Pick Axe, and goes to work to dig a great
Pitt in the Earth.
H E had not dug far ic'fcems, (tho' the Story does
not fay exprefly how far) but he found a large
Cheft 5 I fay large, for it could not be a fmall one,
by what you fhall hear prcfently.
He doubled his Diligence when he came to the
Cheft, and with great Labour at length got it out
of the place J and we may fuppofe was not long be-
fore he found means to fplit it open, and get into
the infide of it to fee the Contents j for he foun4
it very heavy when he kbour'd to get it out.
In
j8z The Hifiory and Reality
I N a word, he found the Cheft full of Silver,
that is to fay, full of Money j then keeping his
own Council, he took care to depofite it fo, that
by fome and fomc he got the Money all fafe home,
and after that carried the Cheft home alfo.
WH A T the Sum was that he found here,the Story
is not particular in> but it feems the bulk was fuch,
that the Pedlar thought fit to leave off his travel-
ling about the Country as a Pedlar, takes a Houfc
in the Town, furnifhes himfelf a Shop,and becomes
a fettled Inhabitant and Shop-keeper. During his
appearing in this Figure,it happen'd that the Parifli
Church being exceeding old and out of Repair, the
Pariihioners, (whether by order ofthe Diocefan up-
on a Vifitation, or by the voluntary aft and deed of
themfelves the Pariihioners,! know not,) refolv'd to
Repair the Church.
1 N order to furnifh the needful Sums for this
good Work, they call a Veftry, and propofe a Sub-
fcription of the Inhabitants, for fupporting the Ex-
pence 5 fo the Minifter and Church-Wardens go
about from Houfe to Houfe to fee what the Chari-
table Parifliioners would contribute, and among the
reft they at length came to the Pedlar's (now Shop-
keeper's) Houfe, and he being told their Bufinefs
defires them to walk in.
After fome Difcourfe, and perhaps treating
his Neighbours, he asks for their Roll or Subfcrip-
tion Paper, in order to fubfcribej looking over the
Roll he fees Sir nomas —— five Pounds, another
Gentleman five Pounds, another ten Pounds, another
forty Shillings,and fo on : Come,fays he, give a poor
Pedlar the Pen and Inkj Will your Gentry fub-
fcribe no more than that ? fo he takes the Pen, and
fubfcribes five and twenty Pounds.
Some time after this, having Occafion to make
a Hatch to his Shop-Door, as in the Country is
very frequent, it happen'd, that fending for a Work-
f man
of AP P ARITIO NS. 3SJ
man to make this Hatch, and looking about among
his old Lumber, he found nothing fo proper as the
old Cheft that the Money was found in, and ac-
cordingly a Hatch was made of it.
A-w H I L E after this, as the Pedkr was fitting
in his Shop, he obferv'd an Ancient Gentleman
who liv'd in the Town, and who had the Reputa-
tion of a Scholar, and particularly of a great Anti-
quary, flood poring very carneftly, with his Spefta-
cles on, upon his new Hatch: This brought the
Pedlar to the Door, who after waiting a good
while to fee what it was the old Gentleman had
difcover'd, at laft he ask'd him what it was he
found upon his new Hatch,that was worth fo much
of his notice.
Truly Neighbour, fays the Gentleman^ whan
I obfervc is very remarkable, tho' I cannot tell the
Meaning of it 3 and I fuppofe 'tis in a Charaftcr
that you cannot eafily read, as well as in a Lan-
guage that you may not underftand.
The Pedlar defir'd he would read it to him.
Why, fays the Gentleman^ you do not underftand
it, when I have read it.
But Sir, fays the Pedlarj can you not tell the
meaning of it in Englijh ?
Why, fays the old Gentleman^ it is the 'old Saxon
Englijh in the ancient Gothic Chara6ter, and it may-
be read thus,
Where Ithis ence flood
Stands another twice as gsod.
Hum! fays the Pedlar^ that's old ftufF indeed:
what can that fignify ?
Nay, fays the old Gentleman^ that I don't know,
for who can tell where this ftood ?
A Y, who indeed ? fays the Pedlar : and if they
did, what can there be in that ?
They
384 7^^ Htfiory and Realty
They had a little more Chat of that kind 5 but
in fliort the Pedlar got rid of his old Gentleman as
foon as he could, and began to ruminate upon the
thing 5 where this flood ! Why I know well enough,
fays he to himfelf^ where this flood > I mufl go and
ice, it may be there is fome more of the fame.
But then he argued, why this is fo many Years
ago {^i-ii or feven at lead, it feems) and if it was ar
Ghoft or Spirit that fhow'd me the way to it, t
warrant fhe has ihow'd fome body elfe the way to
the reft; Indeed I did not defervc it, that I did noc
look farther when I was at it 5 to befure it's gone
by this time.
Thus he argued himfelf almoft out of the
thing again, 'till at length he told his Wife of it,
^
who it feems had been in the Secret before.
Why, you are mad, P^ysjhe^ why don't you go'
immediately to the place?
Nay, fays he^ 1 don't know whether I can find
it again or no, now.
What, fays his Wife^ mufl: the Devil come to
ihow it you again ? fure you an't fo dull, but you
may find it again.
Well, the Man went however 5 indeed his
Wife drove him out almofl:, Go, try, fays fhe^ you
can but come without it.
H E goes, and found the place in general, but
could not difl:inguilh the particular Spot, which
was levell'd partly by himfelf when he fiU'd up the
Hole again, and partly grown up with Grafs and
Weeds 5 fo he comes back again, and tells his Wife,
he could not tell which was the Place, fo as to be
particular enough to go to Work
Well, fays his Wife^ go in the Night; I war-
rant you the good Devil that fhow'd you the firfl
will put you in fome way to find the reft, if there
is any more.
So
of APPARITIONS. 38J
So prevail'd with by his Wife's Importunity
away he went, and I think they fay his Wife went
with him 5 being come to the Place, the Ap-
parition appeared to them again, and lliow'd them,
in the fame manner as before, the very Spot} and
then vaniih'd.
f N fhort, the Man went to work, and digging
a little deeper than he did before, he found ano-
ther Cheft or Coffer, bounded about with Iron, not
fo big as the other, but richer 5 for as the firft was
full of Silver, fo this was full of Gold.
They carry'dit home with Joy enough, as you
Riay fuppofe, and opening it, found (as above) a very
great Treafure. Fame has not handed down the
Sum 5 but fomething may be guefs'd at by the latter
part of the Story, which is told thus.
I T feems that all this while the Repair of the
Church (mention'd above) went on but flowly 5 ac-
cording to the old Saying, it was Church-TVork-y and
a Veftry being call'd upon fome other Church-
work, the Pexilar, who was prefent among the reft
of his Neighbours, took occafion to complain, that
he thought that Bufinefs was not honeftly manag'd,
that it was indeed like Church-Work^ carried on
heavily.
Some of the Gentlemen took him up a little,
and told him, he took too much upon him 5 that ic
was none of his Affair 5 that he was not in
Truft for the Workj that they to whom it was
committed knew their Bufinefs, and that he fhould
let it alone, and mind his Shop.
He anfwer'd, it was true, that he was not trud-
cd with it, if he had, it fhould have been finifhed
before now 5 and that he had a right to complain,
becaufe he paid to it as well as other People} ad-
ding, that if they did not difpatch, he would com-
plain to the Biiliop, and obtain anqther Vifitation*
C c T H I §
3 8^ - The Htjlory and Reality
This alarm'd the People entrufted, fo they
gave him good Words, and told him, the truth
was, the Parifh Stock was almoft gone, and that
they had not Money to go on, 'till' the Gentlemen
would come into a fecond Colleftion.
Say youfo? fays the Pedlar j there maybe fome
Reafon in thatj you can't go on indeed without
Moneys but pray how much do you want?
They told him it would coft near two hundred
Pounds more to finilh it, and do but indifferently
neither > for the Roof wanted to be taken off, and
they feared the Timber was rotten, and would require
fo much Addition, they were afraid to look into it.
In a word, he bid the Church-wardens call a
Veftry upon that particular Affair, and he would
put them in a way to finiih it.
A Vestry was call'dj the Pedlar told them,
that feemg they were poor, and could not raife
Money to go on with it, they fhould leave it to
him, and he would finiih it for them.
Accordingly he took the Work upon
himfelf, laid out near a Thoufand Pounds, and al-
moft new-built the Church 5 in Memory of which,
on the Glafs-windows, there ftand the Figures of
the Pedlar and his Pack, and (as the People fancy)
there is alfo the Apparition beckoning to him, to
come to the Place where he dug up the Money.
Thus far the Story. How Tradition came to
hand it down to us in this manner, and fo turn it
into a Fable, I have nothing to do with 5 but the real
and more probable Part of the Tale is recorded thus.
That there was a Pether^ fo the old Englijh
calls him, that is a Pedlar^ who having long ufed
to travel up and down the Country with his
Horfe, and his Wife, and himfelf, all three loaded
with their Goods, and going from Houfe to Houfe
for many Years, was grown rich, by hislnduftryj
and that being too old to continue the laborious
Part,
of APPARITIONS.
Part, betook a Lodgings firftin the Town, and fold
his Goods in a Chamber^ and in the Markets only^
but afterward took a Houfe and a Shop in the Mar-
ket-place, and drove a great Trade.
That growing thus to be very rich, he con-
tributed, upon their firft coming about for a Sub-
fcription, twenty five Pounds towards the Repair
of the Church j and after that, finding they want-
ed Money to finifli it, took the Work wholly in-
to his own Hand, and finifh'd the Church at his
own Charge} and that the Parifh, in Gratitude to
his Memory, caufed that Figure of the Pedlar to be
painted upon the Glafs, where the Pedlar and his
I?ack is reprefented in one Place travelling about
the Country, by which he got his Living*
In another Place, there are Workmen digging
the Foundation of the Church, and the Pedlar
giving them Dire&ions what to do, and how to
proceed J and in another, the Church is built up a
great way, and almoft to the Roof, and the Pedlar
itill direding.
I N another Place^ an Angel is painted {landing
by the Pedlar, and pointing with a Rod or Staff in
his Hand, to a Place where the Pedlar fets two
Workmen to dig.
Now from the Pedlar's being grown fo unex-
pe&dly rich, common Fame it feems raifed a Re^
port, that he had found a Cheft of Money in the
Ground, and after that another. It feems alfo^
there is an Original for the two Verfes too, which
is thus : when the Pedlar had firft contributed
twenty five Pounds towards building the Church,
and yet the Parifhoners told him, they could not
go on for want of Moneys he told them they
ihould not be difcouraged, he had given them one
Bag of Money, and, fays he, where that ftood^ ftands
another twice as good: Til do it my felf.
Oca Hence
388 The Hijlory and Reality
Hence they thought the Pedlar mufl: certainly
have found fome Money that had been hid in the
Ground, and that the Devil had difcover'd it to
him 5 and To came the whole Story to grow up by
little and little into the Form as i have told it-, and
now to confirm it farther, they tell us the Angel,
which perhaps might be but indifferently painted
on the Glafs, or on the Wall of the Church, is
taken for the Ghofl that difcover'd the two Chefts
of Money to the Pedlar, and is ihowing where to
dig for it.
Thus the Story of an Apparition is handed on
to Pofterity, and now 'tis as currently believ'd in
the Country, almofl as the Gofpel> and any Man
would be thought very bold, that fhould pretend
to contradi6t it, or to fay that it is not true in e-
very Particular.
If all the Stories of Apparitions leading Peo-
ple to dig for Money, were as well trac'd as this, I
believe they might be found as plainly fi6bitious. In-
vention has been mighty fruitful upon this particu-
lar kind of Notion, that when Money is hidden
fome Spirit or Apparition will difcover it j as if the
Souls of thofe that hid the Money were difturb'd,
'till it was found out and made ufe of.
How abfurd the very Suggeflion it felfis, I can
hardly think worth while to fpeak of again j but
there are other DifHculties in it alfo, if an Appari-
tion knows of and difcovers this Money.
1. Why not difcover it fooner? Why let it He
in the Ground, fometimes two or three hundred
Years before it has been difcover'd? and then an
Apparition comes, from none knows where, to bring
it to light.
2. Why is the Difcovery made to a Stranger,
and not to fome of the Line or Race of thofe to
whom the Money did at firft belong.'^ One would
fuppofe the Apparition came^ or was fent, or di-
vc&cd
of APPARITIONS. 38p
recbed to come, todo Juftice^and to give the Money
loft to the right Owner 5 whereas thefc Difcoveries
are often pretended to be made to Strangers, who
have no Claim or any Right to it, or any Relation
to thofe who laid it there 5 and this indeed is unac-
countable, and makes the reft of the Story impro-
bable to be true.
3. If Ghofts, or Apparitions, and Spirits, or call
them what you will, are thus officious, and bufy to
difcover Money hid in the Earth, fo as to run up
and down to Strangers, who are no way related to
it, or to the Race or Families who were firft
concern'd in it> Why then do they not difcover
all the Money that is thus depofited* in the Dark ?
and which no doubt is yet in great Qi-iantities,
lodged out of the Reach of Mortal Sight, and of
which we find frequent Difcoveries made 5 as par-
ticularly a great Parcel of old Gold, found lately in
the digging up the old Foundation of a Houfe in
Oxfordjhire. A great Parcel of Roman Gold Coin
and Medals found this very Year, in digging up an
old Vault in France^ and which muft have lain there
a thoufand Years at leaft, and no kind Apparition
came to difcover it in fo long time.
Many fuch Examples are daily fhown us of*
Money found Under-ground, without the Help of
the Devil^ or of any Apparition, Spirit or Ghoft,
to difcover it, and which had lain, ever fince the
Time of the Romans^ conceal'd and unknown.
F ROM all which Reafons I muft conclude, that
the departed Spirits know nothing of thefe things,
that it is not in their Power to difcover their old
Hoards of Money, or to come hither to {how us
how we may come at it 3 but that in fhort, all the old
Women's Stories, which we have told us upon
'
that Subjed, are indeed old Women's Stories, and
no more.
3^0 The Htfiory and Reality
I CANNOT* quit this part of my Subjefl: with-
out obferving that, indeed, if we give up all the
Stones of Ghofts and Apparitions, and Spirits walk-
ing, to difcover Money that is hid, we Ihall lofc
to the Age half the good old Tales, which ferve
to make up Winter Evening Converfarion^ and fhall
deprive the Do6i:rine of Souls departed coming
back hither to talk with us about fuch things, of its
principal Support j for this indeed is one of the
principal Errands fuch Apparitions come about.
It is without Doubt, that Fancy and Imagina-
tion form a world of Apparitions in the Minds of
Men and Women j (For we mufl: not exclude the
Ladies in this Part, whatever we do) and People go
away as thoroughly poflcfs'd with the Reality of
having feen the Devil^ as if they conversed Face to
Face with him> when in fhort the Matter is no
more than a Vapour of the Brain, a fick delirious
fume of Smoke in the Hypochondria; forming ic
felf in fuch and fuch Figure to the Eye- fight of the
Mind, as well as of the Head, which all look'd upon
with a calm Revilion, would appear, as it really is,
nothing but a Nothing, a Skeleton of the Brain,
a Whymfy, and no more.
So Hypochondriack Tapours reprefent
ShipSj ^rmies^ Battels^ in the Firmament
:
Till fteddy Sight the Exhalation folves,
jlnd all to its firft Matter Cloud dijfolves.
I T is out of Queftion that the Imagination forms
a great many of thefc Vifions in the Heads of the
People that rekte them again to us 5 and they as
firmly believe them to be real Apparitions, as I be-
lieve them to be nothing but Vapours and Cloud*
But on the other hand it cannot be deny'd, but that
there is a itrange Forwardnefs among our People
to
of APPAR ITIO NS. 3pr
to propagate, nay, to raife and invent fuch Stories
of Apparitions and Vifions j to furnifh them ouc
with popular Circumftances, and to fprcad them as
Realities, meerly and on purpofe to form a plau-
fible Relation j and perhaps lome, according to
Cuftom, fall into that old School-boy's Error, of
telling the Tale over fo often, 'till they believe it
to be Truth.
But all this Fiftion and Fable, of which the
World is fo full, does not at all lefTen the folid
Part which I firll advanced, and Hill infift upon,
n:iz. The Reality of Apparition in general j for
the fruitfulnefs of other Mens Imagination in coin-
ing of Falfhood, does not at all leflen the Validity
of a Truth which the Lie is made to Mimick and
Counterfeit.
We have had a world of Tales impos'd upon
the World about Apparitions fhevving themfelves
to abundance of People, before^ at^ and after the late
Maflacre in Ireland^ Ann. 1641, and it would fill
up a Volume of itfelf to give an Account of them >
nor is it poffible to diiUnguilli between thofe of
them that are Real, and thofe that were Imagina-
ry, efpecially at this Dillance of Timej but if I
may believe the Report of thofe that were upon
the Spot, and of others who rcceiv'd the Accounts
from the moft Judicious and mod Confidering of
thofe who were upon the Spot, the Fears and
Apprehenfions of the People, efpecially in Dublin^
where they expe6i:ed the Murtherers would break
in upon them ev^ery Day, fiU'd them with Dream
and Phantofm, Vifion and Apparition, when indeed
there was nothing in it but their own dreadful Ap-
prehenfioqs.
Nor could they be fo much blam'd as in other
Cafes, for here were People efcap'd from the Mur-
therers, even out of their very Hands > fome that
had feen their Wives, Children^, Fathers, Mothers,
HusbandS|
391 The Hifiory and Reality
Husbands, Neighbours butcher'd before their Fa-
ces 5 and no Wonder if thefe had the Images of
Death before their Eyes, after they arriv'd5 no
Wonder if they had Apparitions and Vifions of the
like Mifchiefs every Hour.
N o Wonder if they faw Clouds o? Irijh Armies in
the Air, heard Shrieks of dying murther'd Women
and Children, and that they vouch'd thefe things
with the utmoft Solemnity, Now 'tis true in the
common Notions of Humanity, one cou'd not but
pity thofe poor People, and give allowance to
their Fears, and to the Fright and Horrors that
were upon their Minds 5 yet it does not at all fol^
low that we, who are not under the fame Impref-
flons, muft come into the Delufion with them,
give up our Underftanding and our Reafon to their
imagined Viiions.
We are to judge of thofe things by the Rules by
which we ought to judge in like Cafes, and after
you have made Allowances for the Terrors and
Fright which the poor People might be in then,
we fhould confider the rational Parr, for where
the Apparition is real, the Rational Part is always
apparent as well as the Vifionary Part : for Exam-
ple,
What Apparitions came from a good Hand,
and for the good of the innocent People, whofc
Dangers were fo imminent, would certainly come
in fome Space of Time before the Danger, either
fo as to give Opportunity of Efcape, or at leaft
Preparatory Warnings, that the People might have
time to look up to Heaven, which the butchering
Enemy would not fpare theni; and fuch Appariti-
ons as thefe I fhould be inclined to give the moft
Heed to 'y but of thefe we read of very few.
O N the other hand, to what Purpofe could Ap-
paritions fhow themfelves afterward? and from
whom did they come? If the Souls of the mur-
thcr'd
of APPARITIO N^. 3P3
thcr'd Proteftants cou'd appear and cry for Re-
venge, why did they not all appear, as well as one
Woman at Bandon-Bridge? Why did they not
Haunt the Murtherers in a moft frightful manner,
and terrify them Night and Day, 'till they brought
their own Guilt to be the worfl of Apparitions
to them ?
Why did not the Terror of Blood lie upon
them, like a conftant Devil harrafling their Souls,
and terrifying them 'till they were made their own
Executioners? We faw none of thefe Things hap-
pen either to them, or to the Murtherers, A6torsand
Directors of the P^r//^^;2 MafTacre. CharkslX. King
of France^ by whofe Dire6bion it was all manag'd,
died as compos'd, without any Repentance for it, as
if he had never been concern'd in it 5 calmly giving
Directions for the Adminiftration of the Affairs of
the Government after him, and told his Mother
how to a6t with the Hugonots, 'till his Brother
the King of Poland fhould arrive.
I N Ireland the Priefts and Zealots, nay the very
Women, boafted of the Number they had kill'd j
fliow'd the Skeiiis or Daggers with which they
cut the Throats of the Proteftants 5 one fo many,
and another fo many j their Soldiers fought as fear-
lefs after it as before, nor did any Apparition haunt
them, that ever I met with any Account of.
O N the other handjfor theZ)^i;/Ts difturbing them,
I fee no Reafon in itj the Devil was not at all
difpleas'd with the Fad 5 what fhould he difturb
them for? he wou'd rather appear to afiift them,
encourage them, harden them in it, take all Re-
morfe from them, and reproach them with Cowar-
dice if they fhew'd the lead Inclination to Pity>
tho' I don't hear of the lead Blame the Devil him-
felf could lay upon them of that kind.
As to Apparitions after it was over, I do not
fee Room to think them fo much as Rational >
J) d there
3P4 'T'he Hijlory and Reality
there was not the leaft Occafion of them, or Ufe
ior them> the MifchieF was done 5 what could the
invifible World have to fay to any body about ic
after it was done? We do not read of any Ap-
paritions, Voices, Noifes, Signs, or Wonders at
Jerufalem after the Temple was deftroy'd, tho' a-
bove a Million of People are faid (by Jofeplous) to
have perifhcd there. There were Signs and hbr»
rible Noifes, Apparitions and Voices before it, in
feveral Places, but none after it j the miferable
Dead lay quiet in their Heaps, Graves they could not
he calVd^ and gave neither their Friends or Enemies
any Difturbance.
To conclude: The fham Apparitions which Peo-
ple put upon themfelves are indeed very many; and
our H' pochondriack People fee more Devils at
noon-day than GaliLeiis did Stars, and more by ma-
ny than ever really appear'd. But this no ways Im-
peaches the main Proportion, viz. That there are
reallv and truly Apparitions of various kinds; and
that Spirits or Angels (call them what we will) In-
habiranrs of the invifible and empty Spaces, do vific
us here upon many Occafions, either for Good ot
Evil, as He who made them is pleas'd to dire6t.
The general End and Defign of Providence in
fufFerino fuch things, and the Ufe and Application
to our felves, which we are diredled to make of
them in common Prudence ; how far they ate,
or are not mercifully reilrain'd from hurting
us, and even from terrifying and affrighting us, if
our Reafon could be cur Governour in fuch Ca(es,
with a great Number of Examples in Story of the
effeft of fuch Apparitions as have been allow'd to
vifit Mankind, whether peaceably or otherwifej
thefe would take up a great deal more room : But
I am run my length in the prefent Relation, and
the Reader muft be content to draw Confequences
for himfelffrom what is faid, to guide his Judgment in
the
of APPARITIONS. 39y
the variety of fuch Cafes as may happen : his only
wayjin our Opinion, is to keep an even pace between
Apprehenfion and Contempt ; neither to fear or
defire them 5 but refolve to a6t with the Calmneis
and Courage of a Chriftian, in whatever may be
his Cafe.
But above all I would beg my reading merry
Friends of the thoughtlefs kind not to be fo much
furpriz'd at the Apparitions of their own Brain •
not to flart and be frighted when they firll make
Devils by Day- light, and then fee them in the
dark 5 and as they may be alTur'd they will hardly
ever fee any thing worfe than themfelves, fo lee
them refolve not to be fcar'd at Shadows,or amus'd
with Vapours 5 miftaking the Devil for an Afs,
and tell us of the Saucer Eyes of a Pink-eyed
Bear; not fancy they fee a Hearfe with headleis
Horfes, and take the Night Cart for a fiery Cha-
riot, which one would think they might diftinguiih
by their Nofes, unlefs they will own that their
Fear gave them a worfe Smsll than that of the
DeviL
FINIS.
