{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1957__rhine_pratt___parapsychology.pdf","mytitle":"Parapsychology","mylang":"de"}
(Fifth Printing)
PARAPSYCHOLOGY
FRONTIER SCIENCE OF THE MIND
A Survey of the Field, the Methods, and the Facts of
ESP and PK Research
J. B. RHINE and]. G. PRATT
Parapsychology Laboratory
Duke University
Durham, North Carolina
CHARLES C THOMAS PUBLISHER
Springfield Illinois U.S.A,
Published and Distributed Throughout the World by
CHARLES C THOMAS PUBLISHER
BANNERS-TONE HOUSE
301-327 East Lawrence Avenue, Springfield, Illinois, U.S.A.
This book is protected by copyright. No
part of it may be reproduced in any manner
without written permission from the publisher.
<S>
1957, by CHARLES C THOMAS PUBLISHER
ISBN 398-01580-5
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 57-10999
First Printing, 1957
Revised Second Printing, 1962
Third Printing, 1967
Fourth Printing, 1972
Fifth Printing, 1974
With THOMAS BOOKS careful attention is given to all details of
manufacturing and design. It is the Publisher's desire to present books
that are satisfactory as to their physical qualities and artistic possibilities
and appropriate for their particular use. THOMAS BOOKS witt be true
to those laws of quality that assure a good name and good will.
Printed in the United States of America
00-2
Foreword
HEBE ABE many indications that the time has come to provide
a convenient one-volume summary of present knowledge about
parapsychology. Most urgent is the need among busy profes-
sional people for a clear, concise statement of the known facts of
this new field of science, just how the researches are carried on
and what general advance has been made in relating the new
findings to older branches of knowledge. Outstanding among the
audience we have had in mind are the various professional groups
connected with medicine and the psychological and social sciences
and practices. This book was undertaken as a result
There are other professional groups, too, for whom the volume
was intended as a handbook of essential information on the sub-
ject: The teacher, for example, or minister or field worker in
anthropology should, we believe, find it as wefl suited to his
purpose as die psychiatrist or dermatologist or clinical psycholo-
gist In a word, the competent, mature inquirer, whatever his
professional field, should consider that the book was written for
him.
Finally, these pages have been written, too, with the coming
need of a college textbook in mind. Two university requests for
such a text have recently been received, and with the present
prospects of the growth of parapsychology, others are anticipated.
More popularly written introductory books on parapsychology
have been published in recent years. The titles of most of them
may be found in the literature cited in the book. Younger stu-
dents and nonprofessional readers making their approach to para-
psychology may find it advantageous to read one or more of
these other works by way of introduction.
This book is, of course, not meant for our long-experienced
fellow workers in parapsychology, nor even for the well-read
highly informed student of the field who knows most of its scien-
tific literature at firsthand. Likewise, it should not be considered
as intended to answer and satisfy completely all the questions the
vi FOBEWORD
extremely skeptical reader might raise; we cannot take space for
aH that, especially now that it is
largely of historic interest only.
Those who begin here can, however, readily find the way to the
supporting literature with the help of the frequent references
provided.
The plan of the book is
simply to state the established facts and
to offer in the text references to the main publications that cover
the researches concerned. Only the main references, however,
are given. None but the research parapsychologist would need
the rest, and he well knows how to find item himself. This book,
rather, is
designed to be read and consulted by those who do not
already know the field but who wish, to some extent at least, to
enter it with proper information at hand. Each section and sub-
section is labeled, identified and indexed as clearly as possible to
make the search for needed items a quick and easy one.
The essential features of method and apparatus are photo-
graphically illustrated. The procedures, both methodological and
evaluative, are given to an extent that should serve the purpose
for all but the professional parapsychologist himself. If there are
shortcomings encountered, we want to know about them for cor-
rection on revision, and if information is
lacking that the reader
cannot himself find with die help of the available references, we
will welcome direct inquiry from readers.
We are indebted to our publisher, Mr. Charles G Thomas, for
the suggestion that this book should be written. Our greatest obli-
gation, of course, is to our fellow-workers in parapsychology who
have given us the findings these pages review. We are especially
grateful to those colleagues who have helped with the manuscript:
Dr. R. J. Cadoret, Dr. Louisa E. Rhine, Dr. R. H. Thouless, Dr.
T. N. E. Greville, Dr. j.
A. Greenwood, Mrs. Sally Feather, Mrs.
Farifla David, and Mrs. Joan Walker. We have, of course, to hold
ourselves responsible for whatever inadequacies the book may
still reveal.
J.B.R.
J.G.P.
Parapsychology Laboratory of
Duke University
Durham, North Carolina
Contents
Page
FOBEWOBD V
PARTI
PRESENT KNOWLEDGE
Chapter
L A FIELD OF SCIENCE 5
Definition of the Field, 5; Subdivisions, 7; Relations to
Other Areas, 10; Clarification of Terms and Concepts,
12.
2. OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 17
Introduction, 17; The Two Stages of Scientific Method,
19; Exploratory Methods in Parapsychology, 20;
Methods of Verification, 30; Methods of Distinguishing
Types of Psi, 39.
3. THE FACTS ABOUT Psi AND ITS TYPES 45
The Evidence for Psi, 45; The Case for Clairvoyance,
53; The Problem of Telepathy, 54; The Case for Precog-
nition, 56; The Case for Psychokinesis, 59.
4. Psi AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 66
First the Facts, 66; And Then the Implications, 72,
5. THE PSYCHOLOGY OF Psi 78
Psi is Normal, 79; The Place of Psi in Personality, 85;
Conditions Affecting Psi, 93.
6. Psi RESEABCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 101
Psi in Practice, 101; Psi in Psychiatry, 105; The Place of
Psi in Education, 107; Anthropology's Contact with Psi,
109; The Biology of Psi, 111; Physiological Explorations
in Parapsychology, 113; The Psi Frontier on Medicine,
115; Parapsychology and Religion, 118; The Philosophy
of Psi, 122.
vii
viii PABAPSYCHOLOGY
PART II
TESTING TECHNIQUES
7. PSYCHOLOGICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR Psi TESTING . . . 131
Right Psychological Conditions Essential, 131; In-
fluence of the Experimenter, 131; The Psychological
Needs of the Subject in Psi Tests, 133; The Experi-
menter-Subject Relation in Psi Tests, 135.
8. SOME BASK: Psi TEST PROCEDUBES 139
Introduction, 139; Exploratory Psi Tests, 140; Con-
clusive Test Methods, 156; Summarizing Comments, 167.
9. STATISTICAL METHODS ................. 170
Introduction, 170; Evaluation of a Total Score, 172;
Evaluation of a Difference Between the Scores of Two
Series, 175; Some Uses of the Chi-Square Test, 177;
Other Methods of Statistical Evaluation, 180; Criterion
of Significance, 185.
LIST OF TABLES 189
SOME SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN PARAPSYCHOLOGY 203
GLOSSARY 211
NAME INDEX 215
SUBJECT INDEX 217
Illustrations
Page
Decline in scoring rate within . . . tests of PK 49
Quarter distribution of hits on the record page and set .... 61
Dice used for comparisons in PK tests 71
ESP test for the blind 83
Effect of attitude upon ESP test performance 92
ESP record sheets 142-143
Blind matching 148
Placement test of psychokinesis 155
Screened touch-matching test of ESP 160
PK test for target face with machine-thrown dice 165
PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Frontier Science of the Mind
PART I
Present
Knowledge
Chapter 1
A Field ofScience
L Definition of the Field
HE SCIENCE of parapsychology began with the interest aroused
by the reports of spontaneous human experiences and events that
are familiarly known as "psychic." These puzzling phenomena
have never been claimed by any of the conventional branches of
science, and until comparatively recent decades they had been
ignored by all but a few scientists. Yet records of such occurrences
have come from peoples of all cultures and periods and, simply as
reported human experiences, they would manifestly have some
proper claim on the attention of science. Moreover, they raise
some very distinct and important questions for experimental in-
vestigation. At this point, however, these odd types of experi-
ences are mentioned only to help in identifying the subject matter
of the new science with which this volume is concerned.
It should from the very beginning be made clear that the phe-
nomena with which parapsychology deals are all, without excep-
tion, events of nature. In other words, the field of problems be-
longs entirely to natural science. As the next chapter will indi-
cate, the observations and experiments are dealt with strictly in
the established manner of scientific inquiry. Accordingly, what-
ever comes out of the investigations of this field belongs, just as in
any other branch of science, to the body of organized knowledge
known as natural law.
More specifically,
the observations and events dealt with in
parapsychology parapsychical phenomena are associated in
some central way with living organisms, as distinguished from
inanimate matter. To limit the area still further, this science deals
only (as far as we know) with behaving organisms; not, for ex-
6 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
ample, with bacteria or grains of corn except as these might be
involved incidentally Thus parapsychology belongs not only in
the realm of biology but it is localized in lie sub-division of psy-
chology, the science concerned with persons, personality, or per-
sonal agency within the living world.
What, then, identifies a psychical phenomenon as parapsychical?
It is an occurrence that has been shown by experimental investiga-
tion to be unexplainable wholly in terms of physical principles.
It is, in fact, the manifestly nonphysical character of parapsychical
phenomena that for the present constitutes their only general
identifying feature and marks them off from the rest of general
psychology. This does not, of course, alter the fact that the data
of parapsychology are natural As a matter of fact, our concept
of what is "natural" is built up out of just such discoveries of
science as they are made; accordingly it
goes on growing, and will
continue to do so, with each added bit of knowledge. It is now
dear that, contrary to some of die limiting philosophies that cur-
rently prevail, nature extends beyond the domain of purely physi-
cal law.
The distinction of these parapsychical occurrences from physics
is no*, however, an absolute one. Rather, they usually involve
physical events or objects, either as stimuli or as effects. But there
is
always some distinct point at which a completely physical inter-
pretation is manifestly inadequate. To illustrate, the direct in-
fluence of human volition on a moving object without the use of
any kind of physical energy to achieve the effect would constitute
a phenomenon for parapsychological study. Or again, an individ-
ual may obtain knowledge of an event occurring beyond the
range of his senses and his reasoning abilities. If there should be
no transfer of physical energy from the event to the individual, no
sensory function could convey the knowledge and the experience
would be parapsychicaL
Every science necessarily begins with an area of "unknowns
"
with a group of interrelated phenomena that challenge explana-
tion by the already existing sciences. At the earliest stage of a new
scientific field it is
usually hard to define the aggregate of the
little-understood phenomena well enough for useful discussion.
But parapsychology has already passed this
stage, and we may
A FIELD OF SCIENCE 7
now characterize it as the branch of inquiry which deals with non-
physical personal operations or phenomena.
This definition of parapsychology, while sharp enough for prac-
tical purposes, is naturally limited to the present stage of knowl-
edge, as indeed all terminologies must be. It is
strictly the para-
psychology of today, the physics of today, and the psychology of
today that must be dealt with in the working concepts of the times.
There is, thus, a certain fluidity and an unavoidable tentativeness
to the boundaries and definitions used in this branch of science
just
as in any other department of knowledge.
IL Subdivisions
The main divisions of the field of parapsychology are derived
from the two broad types of observed phenomena with which it
deals: extrasensory perception and psychokinesis. These phe-
nomena, like all psychical (psychological) occurrences, whether
spontaneous or experimental, consist either of reports of subjec-
tive experiences on the one hand or of observed physical effects
on the other. In the experiences of extrasensory perception which
make up the more familiar division of parapsychical phenomena,
knowledge is
acquired in a special way by a mode of perception
that is
independent of the senses. In one of these cognitive ex-
periences an individual may seem to be looking upon a distant
scene somewhat as though he were physically there. In such
cases there is
usually no difficulty in observing that information
was received, although in other kinds of parapsychical experiences
the individual may have indirect evidence of knowledge without
conscious certainty of the fact or may be impelled to a certain
course of action without at the time being aware of the reason for
so doing.
This use of the terms "knowledge" and "experience" to cover a
wide range of responses to external events when there is no sen-
sory basis is a concession to convenience; but from now on we can
be more precise. Since the knowledge conveyed in a parapsychi-
cal occurrence concerns events external to the subject, technically
the mental process is
properly called a perception. Since the
senses are not involved ( and, with no physical mediation from the
8 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
object to the percipient such, as characterizes sensory perception,
they could not be) these cognitive phenomena of parapsychology
are called extrasensory perception or ESP.
The other main subdivision of the phenomena of parapsychology
includes all those occurrences in which, again without physical
intermediation, some personal influence produces a physical ef-
fect. Such direct mental operation on a material body or a
physical energy system is called psychokinesis or PK. This is the
same as the familiar popular concept of mind over matter.
These two main branches of parapsychology, the phenomena
of ESP and PK, appear to parallel the system already familiar to
general psychology, the sensorimotor relations between subject
and object In both sensory perception and ESP the subject re-
sponds to or shows some degree of Isnowledge of an external event
And on the side of the reaction of the subject to the object, both
in the already familiar motor responses and in PK, the individual
mentally exerts an effect upon some part of the physical environ-
ment The one fundamental difference that is most obvious is
that in his sensorimotor relations with the objective environment
the subject relies upon energies that have been already identified
and to a large extent understood by physicists.
In ESP and PK, then, the subject interacts with the objective
environment in a way for which there is no physical explanation
and no acceptable physical hypothesis. Rather, the evidence in-
dictates that the psychophysical interoperations of ESP and PK in-
volve a basis that is not as yet known or observed except through
the aftereffects shown in the experiences and experiments with
which parapsychology is concerned. Not only has no intermedi-
ating process or principle yet been discovered but, thus far in the
functioning of either ESP or PK, no specialized organs of reception
or motor function have been localized. Thus it
may be said that
between the ESP-PK system and the sensorimotor system there is
a general parallel of mind-matter relation even while there is also
what seems at this stage of scientific inquiry to be a very funda-
mental difference.
The relationship between ESP and PK is still
only partially un-
derstood. The view that has gained widest acceptance is that
the two operations involve essentially the same sort of psycho-
A FIELD OF SCIENCE 9
physical
interaction. The end results of the two processes or
functions if they are really different are, of course, manifestly
distinct effects. In the one case the result is an experience related
to an external situation; in the other, an observable physical effect.
Whether the occurrence be a spontaneous one or the result of an
experimental test, these differences are phenomenologically dis-
tinct enough to justify the use of the two subdivisions, extrasensory
perception and psychokinesis. But as the reader becomes familiar
with the nature of these capacities and their way of functioning
he will find it
easy and convenient to use a general term to desig-
nate the whole range of parapsychical phenomena, and for this the
Greek letter psi has come into general use. This is a device of
convenience and does not imply that it is known that there is
only
one basic underlying type of process.
ESP phenomena of three general types are commonly recog-
nized. These distinctions, too, are only partial and tentative ones.
In fact, these three general classifications of ESP effects are mere
descriptive terms that were applied to the phenomena as they
came to be identified in the early stages of the developing science.
But while they are comparatively arbitrary classifications, they
have been so widely used in the literature and practice of the re-
search that they are not likely to be abandoned for some time.
The two most familiar subdivisions of ESP, telepathy and clair-
voyance, were in general use long before the term "extrasensory
perception" itself was accepted. Telepathy, originally defined as
the transfer of thought from one mind to another without the in-
termediation of the senses, is the effect which was most empha-
sized in the early period of psi investigation and it has, there-
fore, received the widest popular attention. In recent decades,
however, the experimental work in parapsychology has been pre-
ponderantly concerned with clairvoyance. Clairvoyance is de-
fined as the extrasensory perception of objects or objective events,
as distinguished from the mental states or thoughts of another
person. As the science of parapsychology has advanced, the basic
similarity of the processes of telepathy and clairvoyance has be-
come more and more apparent It now seems doubtful whether
they are two different processes after all. At any rate, it would
be difficult to offer any specific fundamental difference between
10 PABAPSYCHOLOGf
the two types of manifestation of ESP except, of course, in the
targets perceived the one subjective and the other objective.
The third category tinder ESP is
generally called precognition.
This is
simply the perception of a future event by means of ESP.
To qualify as a genuine instance of precognition an experience
must refer to a coming event to an extent that is more than merely
accidental; it must identify a future happening that could not have
been inferred as about to occur; and, finally, it must refer to an
event that could not have been brought about as a consequence
of the prediction.
For the present stage of parapsychology these four general
subdivisions--extrasensory perception and psychokinesis, with the
former further subdivided into telepathy, clairvoyance, and pre-
cognition serve well enough for the necessary exchange of ideas
and the discussion of results. As will be seen in the later
chap-
ters these subdivisions which have been reflected in the spon-
taneous psi experiences from which the branch of science arose
have been confirmed by the experimental studies that have re-
sulted. Thus far no other clear-cut subdivision has been found
necessary or justifiable; and the impression is
given that these four
types of parapsychical phenomena are the result of a single under-
lying psi function. In any case, a fundamental relation between
die subject and the object that is in some degree nonphysical has
been established.
III. Relations to Other Areas
The present distinction between parapsychology and general
psychology is
fairly obviously a temporary one. Parapsychical
phenomena are distinguishable from the other phenomena of
psychology merely by the fact that they can be shown to be non-
physical in character. With regard to the rest of the more purely
psychological processes there is no way of telling whether non-
physical operations play any part. Some theorists in
psychology
have taken the position that all mental life is
essentially non-
physical; but this
interpretation was made on philosophical
grounds. What science itself wifl discover about the rest of the
domain of psychology we need not try to predict
A FIELD OF SCIENCE 11
The relation of psi to the world of physics and physiology is
more clear-cut than its relation to general psychology. Here there
are demonstrable criteria of differentiation. The fact that psi
functions so far show no limiting influence of space and time
reveals a distinction that is
perhaps the most fundamental yet
encountered in the entire universe of knowledge. The evidence is
now conclusive enough in parapsychology to leave no doubt that,
so far as present concepts go,
we are dealing with nonphysical
principles and processes.
Even so, the distinction is only rela-
tively thoroughgoing. The psi function is in all instances the
result of an interaction between an organism and its environment;
and in the latter a physical system is always in some way involved.
Even in telepathy, with a supposedly "mind-to-mind" transfer,
there has in all verified instances been a physical brain coordinated
with the sender's thought. Science has not yet discovered enough
about the relation of mind and brain to say how far the distinction
can be carried between these two systems and whether the appar-
ent dualism is anything more than a relative distinction. The
occurrence of interaction between psychical and physical systems
implies to the logical mind a basic unity suggesting that the
phenomena of parapsychology and physics are both of the same
all-embracing universe. If so then a larger scope of reality is still
to be disclosed than has been as yet revealed. Physics, then, is
not unrelated to psi and its
operation. We can say, rather, only
that psi is not describable in terms of physical processes.
The extent to which psi is found to be a generalized capacity
among living behaving organisms will determine what and how
significant its
place should be in the larger field of biology. For
the present this is a question under active research.
Since psi is definitely a human capacity, at least, and since the
nature of personality is fundamentally important to a wide range
of human relations, a broad area of significant possibilities
should
be listed here if
completeness in this outline of relations were to
be required. It is
particularly important to consider what differ-
ence die establishment of psi as a human characteristic will make
to the larger disciplines concerned with human society. The dis-
covery in man of properties not attributable to physical law gives
to the theory and philosophy of human relations a distinctly anti-
12 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
materialistic quality that is revolutionary and far-reaching. For
religion it
gives a scientific rebuttal to materialism; for ethics and
mental hygiene it removes the road-block of mechanism; and for
medicine, psychotherapy, and education it
provides a scientific
status for the common-sense concept that there is
something in
the subjective life of man that has distinctive principles of its own.
It is safe to say that when the recognition of psi as a nonphysical
component of human personality has occurred, there will hardly
be any area of human relations untouched by the significance of
tiiis
generalization.
IV. Clarification of Terms and Concepts
The term parapsychology was adapted from the German word,
Parapsychologie, the most widely used of the European terms
which identify the field. It means the same as the older English
expression, psychical research, and the French, metapsychique.
Psychical is an ambiguous word, being used in general psychology
to mean "mental/* The popujar use of the word psychic, while
convenient and well-entrenched, has the same ambiguity.
The prefix para added to psychology ( and psychical ) serves well
enough the purpose of marking off a section of the general field of
psychology for such time as the distinction is needed. But it is
not to be applied loosely as a generally valid prefix for other similar
uses in the field. For example, the terms paraphysical, para-
physiological, paranormal, and the like, are not sufficiently clear-
cut in their meaning to justify their use. Paranormal has a certain
amount of current usage as an equivalent of parapsychical, but
like its
predecessors, supernormal and supernatural, it seems to
carry the quite erroneous (and unintended) implication that psi
phenomena are not a normal part of nature. Normal is itself a
word of too many proper as well as improper meanings to be used
reliably in terminology and definition.
The term extrasensory perception which came to general use in
1934 has proved to be more useful than its alternatives, such as
super-sensory perception, ultra-perceptive faculty, paranormal
cognition, metagnomy, etc. It has probably survived because it
has fitted the need for a descriptive expression that implies no
untested theory as to its nature.
A FIELD OF SCIENCE 13
The word telepathy came into use around the beginning of the
century to describe what had been called thought-transference
(mental telegraphy, etc.)- It is redundant to use the modifying
adjective mental to describe telepathy.
Clairvoyance is
perhaps the oldest term in general use in
parapsychology and it has outlasted a number of expressions that
were introduced to describe the extrasensory perception of objec*
tive events, of which the following are the most common: lucidity,
telesthesia, cryptesthesia. Efforts to introduce related terms such
as clairaudience and clairsentience have failed because the term
clairvoyance is not limited to its
etymological derivation, "clear-
seeing." Psychometry has had a wide usage in parapsychology for
what may more appropriately be referred to as token-object tests
of ESP (Le., identification of people and events associated with an
object by means of ESP). The term psychometry has an estab-
lished use in general psychology in its
proper sense of mental
measurement, and it should not be abused in any parapsychologi-
cal application.
The introduction of precognition to identify the ESP of future
events logically suggested tie term retrocognition for the ESP
of past occurrences. However, there is no adequately verified psi
phenomenon to which retrocognition itself may be applied.
At the time of the introduction of psychokinesis there was a
choice between it and the term telekinesis, mainly associated
with physical manifestations connected with the claim of medium-
ship. Telekinesis means "action at a distance," and psychokinesis,
"the direct action of mind upon matter.'* The use of the latter
term was preferred as more accurate and as more clearly having
no limiting connotation of discarnate agency.
A number of efforts have already been made to provide a sys-
tematic general nomenclature for parapsychology. They have,
however, all been premature and no sudr attempt has at best
contributed more than perhaps a single accepted term or two to
general usage in the field. Obviously the effective and accepted
application of a systematized terminology will call for a well-
organized rationale of the phenomena to be dealt with. But
parapsychology has only recently reached the status of organiza-
tion presented here. It will require a period of time for a
14 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
sufficient familiarization with, this pattern of findings to occur
before the field will need a more systematic set of descriptive
terms.
Parapsychology needs also to be distinguished from popular
concepts connected with certain areas of practice or belief which
are sometimes confused or associated with it. Occultism is one
of these. This term designating the study of hidden arts or princi-
ples does not apply to the scientific type of approach that charac-
terizes parapsychology. Spiritualism is another term that has
been widely associated with parapsychology. Spiritualism, how-
ever, is a religion, having for its central emphasis belief in the
existence of a world of discarnate personalities supposedly able
to communicate with the living, mainly through mediumship.
They are also believed capable of manifestations such as hauntings
and poltergeist phenomena (a sort of rough-housing attributed to
noisy spirits). As with all
religious systems of belief, there are
certain doctrines in spiritualism based upon the assumption of
capacities that have not been verified by scientific method in
parapsychology. The relationship of parapsychology to areas
possibly involving its
principles is, in general, something like that
of a pure to an applied science area. There is the important
difference, however, that in no instance in parapsychology as yet
has such application grown out of preceding laboratory discovery.
Certain of the terms more commonly associated with spiritual-
ism have come into widespread popular usage; for example, the
terms medium and mediumship. Strictly speaking, the term
medium implies a theory ,of spirit survival and of communication
of discarnate personalities with the living through the intermedia-
tion of persons known as mediums. This is a doctrine in the
Spiritualist faith and is not a scientifically established fact in
parapsychology. It is, however, correct to say that the investiga-
tion of the hypothesis of spirit survival and communication would
be a parapsychological one (see Chapter 6).
The distinction between parapsychology and psychopathology
ought to be made dear, since textbooks on abnormal psychology
have often included them both without adequate distinction.
There is no implication of pathology in anything associated with
parapsychology; and, on its
part, psychopathology has traced
A FIELD OF SCIENCE 15
none of its causal factors to the domain of parapsychology (see
Chapter 6).
Hypnosis or hypnotism was for a long period of its
history
associated with psi phenomena, especially in its
aspect of "som-
nambulism"; but as the studies of both hypnotism and para-
psychology have advanced, the independence of the two classes
of phenomena has become amply clear. Similarly, the vaguely
defined state known as (self-induced) trance has passed through
a similar evolution; as have also the various motor automatisms
(unconscious muscular movements) such as dowsing, automatic
writing, and the use of the ouija board. Gradually, through ad-
vancing understanding, the phenomena of parapsychology have
emerged as distinct from these earlier associations and are now
describable and demonstrable in their own characteristic
properties.
Additional Reading
EDITORIAL: A proposed basis for choosing terms in parapsychology.
/. ParapsychoL, 9:147-149, 1945.
EDITORIAL: Pattern of history in parapsychology. J. ParapsychoL,
17:247-258, 1953.
JAMES, WM.: The confidences of a "psychical researcher.* American
Magazine, pp. 580-589, Oct., 1909.
LODGE, O.: The university aspect of psychical research, in The Case
For and Against Psychical Belief. Worcester, Mass., Clark Univ.
Press, 1927, pp. 3-14.
McDotJGALL, WM.: Psychical research as a university study, in The
Case for and Against Psychical Belief. Worcester, Mass., Clark Univ.
Press, 1927, pp. 149-162.
McDoxiGALL, WM.: Editorial introduction. /. ParapsychoL, 1:1-9,
1937.
MUBPHY, G.: Challenge of Psychical Research. New York, Harper,
1961, pp. 1-6; 274-291.
MUBPHY, G.: Parapsychology, in Encyclopedia of Psychology. New
York, Philosophical Library, 1946, pp. 417-436.
MURPHY, G.: The place of parapsychology among the sciences. /.
Parapsychol, 13:62-71, 1949.
MYERS, F. W. H.: Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death.
New York, Longmans, 1954.
16 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
RHINE, J. B.: Extrasensory Perception, Boston, Bruce Humphries,
1934, pp. 5-14 Paperback Edition, 1962.
RHINE, J. B.: Introduction to experimental parapsychology, in Present-
day Psychology. New York, Philosophical Library, 1955, pp. 469-
488.
RHINE, J. B.: Parapsychology, in The New Outline of Modern Knowl-
edge. New York, Simon and- Schuster, 1956, pp. 193-211.
RHINE, J.B.: The Reach of the Mind. New York, Wm. Sloane, 1947.
RHINE, J. B., et al.i>
Extrasensory Perception After Sixty Years. New
York, Holt, 1940, pp. &-2L
SIDGWICK; H.: Presidential address. Proc. Soc. Psych. Res., 1:7-12.
1882.
THOXTLESS, R. H.: Thought transference and related phenomena, in
Proc. Roy. Institution of Great Britain, 1950.
TYBBELL, G. N. M.: Science and Psychical Phenomena. New York,
Haiper, 1938.
Chapter 2
Objective Research Methods
I. Introduction
FIELD of science should properly be judged on the basis of its
methods of investigation. In parapsychology, however, as in
any branch of psychology where there are subjective or mental
factors and conditions to be dealt with, a consideration of the
objective methods alone is not enough. As a matter of fact, there
is even a question as to whether they come first in importance.
But for the purpose of this book it will be advantageous to present
the objective methods first and deal with the important considera-
tion of psychological methods and conditions of experimentation
later (Chapter 7). The reasoning is that an appreciation of the
sound status of the facts of parapsychology should come first, and
for that the objective methods are clearly of prior importance.
After this first
step is taken, then the shift of interest to other
problems makes the psychological conditions the more important
in their turn.
By objective methods we do not mean only the specific testing
techniques by means of which the investigations are made. The
standardized test procedures generally used in the study of psi
phenomena are, of course, an essential part of the methods; the
main types of procedure are described in Chapter 8. Likewise,
the mathematical techniques that play an important part in meas-
uring the degree to which the experimental results exceed the
level expected from pure chance are an essential part of the
objective methods; they are given in Chapter 9. These descrip-
tions of the more specialized techniques, while they are essential
to research and clinical use, are not necessary here for an appre-
ciation of the general way in which psi has been investigated.
17
18 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Thus, as we have fust indicated, three major sections of what
might be broadly considered as methods in parapsychology are
considered in another section of the volume. This leaves for the
present chapter the general program of how, in concretely describ-
able fashion, research in parapsychology is done; how its
questions
arise; how, and how reliably, they are answered.
It should be said at the outset that because of the challenge
of the findings of parapsychology, the research workers have
a greater consciousness of method and of rigorous control than is
found in other branches of science. The radical nature of the
results have also made it necessary to develop a wider range of
safeguards against error than in any other field. This is, however,
altogether proper when revolutionary conclusions are drawn.
Within reasonable limits such added precautions must be taken,
A few people, it is true, have questioned whether it is
possible
for science to deal effectively and exhaustively with such non-
physical functions as are investigated in parapsychology. The
very strangeness and elusiveness of some of the human experiences
dealt with in this field tend to raise questions concerning the full
adequacy of such methods. But we need only remember that
physics itself, as well as other curricular branches of knowledge,
have long been working at least partly with extrasensory phe-
nomenaoperations and effects that are clearly beyond the range
of the sense organs. They are, of course, not connected with
personality or mental life and, therefore, are not parapsychical;
but, like psi capacities, they can be measured only by their indi-
rect effects. .Most of the researches in general psychology, too,
depend upon this indirect approach. The general principle
followed is that anything in the universe man will ever know about
creates effects; and through these effects it can be indirectly
studied, even if the process itself is
beyond the range of the senses
and even beyond reach of the instruments that so greatly extend
the range of the senses.
In theory, at least, it should be possible for science to investigate
any real phenomenon, any true operation in the universe; and we
can advance as far as we have the patience and ingenuity to go
toward satisfying ourselves of its
genuine occurrence. Moreover,
if the first
inquirers are able to describe their methods clearly as
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 19
they proceed, others, too, if they are prepared, can then follow
the trail, confirm its existence, and improve or extend it still
further.
II. The Two Stages of Scientific Method
Science has two fairly obvious general functions. One of these
is its role of exploration or discovery, the turning up of new
phenomena or ideas; the other is the task of verification or the,
making sure whether a claimed discovery or suggested hypothesis
is valid. Both are essential, and one is as important as the other.
Moreover, it is extremely important for worker and student alike to
keep both of these two types of scientific inquiry in mind, and
above all to keep each with its
proper requirements in its
proper
place. This is not always done in actual practice. Many students
of science who are mainly concerned with but one of these two
stages of scientific inquiry tend to forget that there is another
too. Some, of course, are largely unaware of methods as such;
they are casually following a heritage of custom established by
habit and routine.
The chief characteristic of the exploratory stage of scientific
inquiry is that in it the explorer is
permitted to range widely,
venture freely, and look into everything that might be important
to his interest without being burdened with too much precaution-
ary concern. It is a more venturesome, a more extravagant phase
of investigation. It is always a first
stage,
of course, but only
because of the natural order of investigation.
While it is obvious
that without this exploratory stage there would be little or nothing
for science to verify or establish, it is
equally true that with it
alone no results would ever be firmly established.
On the other hand, the second or conclusive stage of research
has very different characteristics. Its emphasis is
mainly .on
reliability. The starting point is a claim or hypothesis to be put to
crucial test and the first step is the drawing up of an experimental
plan carefully designed to take all the alternatives into account.
The testing itself must be done with constant vigilance to see that
the requirements laid down in the plan are fully met Equally
important, perhaps, are the soundness of logic used in interpreting
20 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the results and the careful suspension of judgment regarding con-
clusions until the accepted standards of science are met standards
of adequate experimental control, of extrachance( statistical) sig-
nificance, and of independent confirmation by other investigators.
The most common violation of good method, at least in parapsy-
chology, lies in the much too ready confusion of these two phases
of science exploration and verification. For example, an over-
anxious inquirer may (like a scout setting out with heavy battle
equipment) attempt to carry the complex controls of verification
along with him when he is
setting forth on purely exploratory
activities. Equally common is the reverse emphasis in which a
research worker jumps to premature and unwarranted conclusions
on the strength of what are no more than exploratory findings. He
does not feel the need of waiting for the slow, firm test of crucial
investigationo There are many variations of these familiar viola-
tions of good procedure; they are not, of course, limited to para-
psychology. As we have already said, however, there has been
good reason for workers in this field to become especially conscious
of methods and standards.
III. Exploratory Methods in Parapsychology
The ways of exploratory inquiry in parapsychology are sub-
stantially the same as those used in other comparable fields. One
of them is the elementary method of studying reports of excep-
tional spontaneous occurrences and generalizing from such a study
to an hypothesis that can be put to test or a claim that can be
examined by means of other methods. This is the case-study
method. A second method of exploration, identified as the pre-
liminary individual test, is
adapted to the introductory study of
special persons such as, for example, those whose behavior or
experience suggests unusual psi powers. The third way of screen-
ing projects for more conclusive investigation by trying them out
on a small scale in a preliminary way is called the pilot test
method. Fourth, much valuable exploratory work is done by
going over the data of earlier experiments. Re-examined with
fresh problems in mind, these records often contribute new in-
sights not glimpsed during the original investigation. This is the
method of re-examination.
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 21
In all of these four methods (the principal ones that have been
followed) the purpose is to make a discovery, at least a tentative
one; this becomes a new hypothesis for further investigation. Thus
the end point of an exploratory investigation is a new and impor-
tant question, one that deserves for its reliable answering the more
refined treatment of a crucial test. A brief discussion of each of
these methods will give a better idea of how most of the research
in parapsychology has actually been done. As in any field of
science, more time and effort are generally needed on the explora-
tory stage of a problem than for the conclusive stage of research.
A. Case-Study Method
Originally, parapsychology as a science began with reports of
spontaneous personal experiences of unexplainable nature. In
the early studies emphasis was placed upon the need to authenti-
cate such cases as allowed careful checking on the reliability of
reporting. It became evident, however, that even elaborate effort
in substantiating them did not furnish sufficiently unquestionable
evidence to warrant a conclusion. The hypothesis was too revolu-
tionary. Experimental methods had to be introduced for that
purpose. The case study is
by its nature primarily an exploratory
method; it would be difficult if not impossible to convert it into a
crucial method of verification.
At the present stage of parapsychology, the case method pro-
vides a very important source of suggestions as to the nature and
properties of psi as it functions spontaneously. The research
worker can, with advantage (beginning either with an appropriate
case collection already available or by making one of his own)
ask his questions of Nature as represented in these experiences.
If it be a specific question as to how psi operates spontaneously,
and if the collection be suitable and lie question answerable, he
should be able to get a tentative answer. This trial-answer or
hypothesis may be impressively evident or it
may be but slightly
indicated. No matter how strong the appearance of support,
however, the tentative new idea is still based on the reports of
human experiences which cannot be sufficiently validated to per-
mit a scientific conclusion to be reached.
22 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
But there is some preliminary testing of an idea that can profit-
ably be done within the case method itself* A question or
hypothesis raised from one collection of cases can be checked
against another or even more than one. A confirmation from a
second large collection would considerably strengthen the status
of the hypothesis, though it would definitely still not provide con-
clusive verification. To mention only one possibility of weakness,
the two collections might have a common defect, perhaps one in-
herent in the cultural influence affecting them both or in the
method by which the two collections had been assembled. But
such support as a second collection might give would go far to
warrant the large effort which experimental verification calls
for* In this way could be worked up the pressure of confidence
and challenge needed before the much greater outlay of research
time and other resources demanded by the conclusive test would
be undertaken. It is not, in fact, justifiable to undertake the
more crucial stage of testing until the exploratory build-up has at
least answered the principal objections that may be raised and
has developed a reasonably probable case. This much can be
done by the case method when it is used to best effect
Collections of psi cases will, of course, vary according to col-
lectors and also according to the instructions issued regarding the
types of cases desired. It is best to make a new collection and to
secure broad coverage of types; in older collections the persons
reporting the cases may have been given too selective instruc-
tions. In the same way it would be wise not to require any
specific standard of reporting or authentication since thereby
many cases for which there could be no corroborative support
possible would be excluded. Since the purpose is to discover
Nature's own way of demonstrating such phenomena, it would
be defeating the purpose of exploration to rule out at the collec-
tion point, just because they seemed less impressive from the point
of view of evidentiality, any types of cases that could have bearing
on research problems. In recognizing the tentative status of the
case study results, the explorer can be relieved of misplaced
anxiety over the reliability of a report.
Case study methods involve much that need not be considered
here at length. They depend, of course, on the logical judgment
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 23
exercised in making analyses. If a question is asked of a case
collection, it needs to be clarified and the possible answers stated
clearly enough, for definite
understanding by others. The stand-
ards of analysis need to be defined so plainly that another worker
can follow and, if desired, re-analyze the same material Results
must, of course, be stated when appropriate in quantitative form
as percentages or ratios and, when justified, the distributions may
be tested for extrachance significance by a chi square method
(see Chapter 9).
The cases referred to thus far were those of the spontaneous
type occurring to the individual, but in a more general way the
same method of exploration applies to all
nonexperimental items
of observation that can be grouped or collected for general com-
parison and analysis. Instances of observation among professional
workers in related fields such as anthropology, psychiatry, and
religion and among such practices as dowsing and mediumship
should be studied in their preliminary stages by essentially similar
exploratory methods.
B. Individual Screening Method
Probably the exploratory practices in widest use are those of
examining and screening individual subjects, either for participa-
tion in more conclusive experimental work or for a more elaborate
exploratory program. Most commonly in such preliminary tests
the investigator is
dealing with a person who believes on some
basis or other that he is
gifted with psi capacity and wishes to
know the extent of his ability. The contact between fa* and the
experimenter may have arisen as a result of the individual's own
curiosity over his spontaneous experiences or he may have been
referred to the research worker by a teacher, psychiatrist, or
minister. In any case, a widely adaptable preliminary test method
is needed for this purpose, one that will lend itself to a variety of
conditions while still affording a reasonably accurate estimate of
the ability concerned.
It has been greatly advantageous, indeed, to have certain stand-
ard methods of testing available, methods with an already existing
frame of reference into which results may be placed for compara-
tive judgment. The widespread use of the standard ESP card
24 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
test, with a five-symbol pack of 25 cards developed at the Duke
University Parapsychology Laboratory, makes it more efficient to
follow an adaptation of this method; a wide basis of comparison
is
automatically provided. The fact that there are five possible
choices makes 20 per cent success the level of scoring to be ex-
pected from pure chance. If for any reason the subject to be
tested has an expressed preference, the five symbols of the stand-
ard deck (star, circle, square, cross, waves) can be replaced by a
set of five colors, five animal pictures, or any other suitable set of
items. In fact, there are advantages in these local adaptations.
But there again availability has the advantage; and the standard
deck of ESP cards mentioned above has not only been the most
widely used in the ESP researches of the last 25 years, but it is
at present the most conveniently available/
Above all, however, the method to be used needs to suit the
subject's interest and preparation. If, for
example, he shows any
hesitation to use a test that makes possible definite scoring (and
mathematical evaluation), a preliminary test could use other
target material ( e.g., pictures cut from magazines ) . It is wise to
start with whatever the subject believes is the best for him. The
change to other and better conditions can be made later, once
success in scoring has been demonstrated and the subjects confi-
dence established. Should a subject fail in preliminary tests, it
would be much better for him to do so on tests which he has been
fully ready to accept and approve. If he does fail
persistently
from the start and no variation of conditions over a number of
sessions can induce success, there is
nothing to do but discontinue;
only if, and as long as, he is
giving a moderate show of successful
scoring is it
profitable to try to improve and advance the test
conditions.
Once, however, a subject shows special ability under free, in-
formal conditions, the next step is to introduce safeguards. This
should, for psychological reasons, always be done with a subject's
full approval and cooperation. With continual improvement of
* To keep the copyrighted standard cards available, authority to distribute them
is restricted in the USA. to Haines House of Cards, Norwood, Ohio, and its
distributing agencies.
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 25
conditions the point will be reached at which the experimental
controls will be sufficiently rigorous to meet the full requirements
of verification. When that point is reached, the proper procedure
is to go right into it as if no real distinction were involved. The
line between advanced exploration and initial verification is, in
any case, an arbitrary one. The subject himself is
usually the
better for not having the strain of being told he is
facing a crucial
test In general, any neglect of the delicate psychological condi-
tions that psi subjects require for effective demonstration is waste-
ful. We assume, however, that Chapter 7 on the psychological
conditions for psi tests will be taken into account with this one.
It is essential, too, that the experimenter have some knowledge
of what to expect from a subject that is, how to judge the rate of
scoring. He needs to know as the tests progress how well his sub-
ject is
doing if
only to know when to advance or to change over
to the next stage. While it is
important to allow the new subject
to begin with any preferred condition he may have in mind and to
allow an amply successful demonstration on this level before add-
ing precautions, if a subject has no set ideas and no predilections
as to methods it is of advantage to start with conditions that rule
out as many of the conceivable errors as possible. With that in
mind, we recommend a clairvoyance test rather than one for GESP
or general extrasensory perception. A GESP test makes no at-
tempt to distinguish between telepathy and clairvoyance (for ex-
ample, the sender looks at the target card during the trial). A
clairvoyance test requires only one subject, instead of the two
needed wherever telepathy may also be involved. It also elimi-
nates for the experimenter any concern over possible sensory com-
munication between sender and receiver. Even if the subject
prefers GESP, he may be persuaded or challenged to try clairvoy-
ance after some initial success with the other method. If not, and
the GESP test has to be used to start with, it is
important, even on
the exploratory level, to advance the test procedure so that two
rooms are used, with the sender in one and the receiver in the
other, and with the connecting door closed.
But with clairvoyance test methods the advance to adequate
precautions can be more rapid and the evidential value of the
results accordingly greater. If the subject is not hesitant, the test
26 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
can begin with the cards screened entirely from all sensory con-
tact; even in the very first test Then, with the experimenter keep-
ing records of all scores for a full appraisal and with a method of
double witnessing (by subject and experimenter) of the card
recording and scoring, the method should be sufficiently safe
for this preliminary order of testing. The basic requirements for
safeguarding the procedure and for evaluating the results will be
found in Chapters 8 and 9.
It should be possible to develop testing devices that would be
so adaptable to diverse situations and individual needs that (when
they are properly used) the most free and informal ESP test
would be fully safeguarded. Progress toward this ideal is
highly
desirable especially since there are many clinical, educational and
other practical adaptations of the ESP test that are awaiting such
a development. But it is no less necessary here than elsewhere to
emphasize again that the requisite psychological conditions dis-
cussed in Chapter 7 would also have to be met or the test could
not be considered in any real sense an ESP test at alL
C Pilot-Study Method
The third exploratory procedure in parapsychology makes use
of a small trial research preliminary to a larger, more thorough
one. It already has had a fair amount of use and it has been of
great value to the field. It is
especially needed to offset the tend-
ency of overenthusiastic experimenters to plunge into elaborately
designed projects right from the start Some investigators who
have been successful in other stages of scientific work assume,
unjustifiably, that they will naturally succeed, too, in conducting
psi experiments in what they assume to be a comparably proper
and effective manner. They reason that since otters have suc-
ceeded they should expect to do so, and that since they have done
competent research in other areas they should be expected to get
results in parapsychology as well. But this is to overlook the many
uncontrolled variables that are usually present in the psychologi-
cal experiment and are especially likely to cause trouble in in-
vestigations with so elusive a capacity as psi.
It is in just such a case that a small pilot experiment can serve a
very useful purpose in fact, a number of purposes. The experi-
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 27
menter can first of aH satisfy himself that he has what is
required
as an experimenter to bring out psi capacity in the subjects with
whom he expects to work. He can at the same time assemble a
selected team of subjects and settle many other initial questions
involving experimental conditions. If a preliminary experiment is
clear-cut and indicative he then will know what to do on the main
project If the pilot study is
discouraging, more preparation or
modification of the design is in order and perhaps further pre-
liminary researches. It is, of course, important to keep in mind
that the pilot experiment is
definitely exploratory and that, what-
ever its results, they are to be considered apart from the major
project which it serves to introduce.
One of the main values of the pilot study method in parapsy-
chology springs from the need in this new branch to fend off wild
theorists who approach the field with an unduly speculative bent.
These rationalists would start off on an ambitious program to
demonstrate their theories. They are usually difficult to persuade
to try out first, on a preliminary scale, the wholly unsupported
expectations they have built up. There is little to be gained from
these impulsive attempts to launch a full-scale conclusive research
project at their early stage of investigation. The pilot test stands
ready to help the researcher, whether beginner or professional, to
fit his experiments more effectively to his project
D. The Re-examination Method
Fourth in the types of exploratory methods in general use in
parapsychology is that in which old data are re-examined for other
purposes than the original investigators had in mind. After an
experimental series has been evaluated and reported for what it
was intended to do, the author or another worker has in many in-
stances had reason to re-examine the data in search of the answer
to a different question from the original one. Many of the leading
developments of the last quarter century in parapsychology owe
their origin or support to this device of incidental exploring.
The method is more than merely a search among old records for
overlooked significance.
It follows a more or less systematic
course, in broad outline much like that of the case-study method.
The researcher in need of an answer to a question turns toward
28 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
whatever relevant available data lie can find. He might be, let
us say, asking whether the scoring rate in PK tests falls off in the
course of a run (or column), as it does in ESP- Why should he
trouble to carry out a new experiment to explore this possibility
when there are files of old data to examine? Thus the old material,
when it could answer the question, has often acquired a later value
which its
original producer never anticipated.
It is true tie first discovery in such a case would have only the
tentative value of any exploratory finding. Almost immediately,
however, the research worker may "predict" (that is, reasonably
infer) that a similar result would be found in a comparable batch
of old data still unexamined; and if this new program is well
planned and properly handled, the magic line of verification itself
can be crossed in the very next stride. This possibility of a quick
changeover to a method of crucial test is one of the greatest values
of this method. As we stated, there has been a very productive
reclamation program in parapsychology. If we keep in mind that
the takeoff by this reclamation method is
always an exploratory
research, we shall not make undue claims for its results until
further (predicted) reclamation verifies the first result
E. Methods for Clinical and Other Practical Uses
A broad category of methods remains that, while not exploratory
in the sense that we have been using the term, is
comparable in
many respects. These might be called clinical or practical
methods; that is, ways of adapting psi tests to particular situations
involving professional service in other areas than parapsychologi-
cal research. Suppose, for example, that a clinical psychologist or
psychiatrist needs to test a patient's belief that he is
especially
endowed with a psi capacity. This somewhat resembles the situa-
tion in which the Individual Screening Method described above is
used preparatory to a more controlled research. The purpose,
however, may be entirely subordinate to some such objective as
diagnosis or treatment, and the standards required should be those
which the professional practitioner will need to have for his
purposes.
For such needs, whether they arise in connection with patients
or in anthropological field studies, or in educational projects in-
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 29
volving special children, or in any other of the many possible situa-
tions in which the question of unusual mental powers may arise,
the general recommendation might be much the same. In a word,
the adaptation of the standard testing techniques can, until special-
ized modifications have been developed for a given clinical pur-
pose, be managed in much the same way as exploratory testing of
other individual subjects. The same relative care will be needed
as in all
psi testing to see that psychological conditions are properly
met and to avoid imposing upon the subject to be tested a too
artificial method or one he does not adequately understand or
fully accept- Indeed, the rule should be rigidly imposed on the
would-be experimenter to meet the subject's requirements as
fully and carefully as if
they were actually objective in character.
Standards of the clinical or practical tests may be laid down by
the professional worker himself according to the needs of his
situation. At one extreme they could be as high as those used in
crucial tests. But for general use at the bedside, in school, or in
field situations a somewhat rough and ready test will be found
more suitable and all the precautions not specifically needed may
be dropped. Counterhypotheses to psi that have never had any
real support in fact (as, for example, involuntary whispering on
the part of the agent in a test involving telepathy), and which
have been given an exaggerated importance only because of the
controversy over ESP, can profitably be forgotten in practical
testing. Tins and the special precautions against possible errors in
recording may safely be left to the more controlled researches in
parapsychology proper. Those who wish to apply the methods to
adjacent problem areas will in any case naturally make such modi-
fications of method as they themselves feel are warranted by the
conditions and demands of their purpose. For this purpose wide
ranging clinical adaptations of testing techniques are necessary
and entirely in order.
The four main exploratory methods just described were not de-
signed by a logician; they just grew into usage and survived be-
cause they proved successful. There are certain inconsistencies
and overlappings that could bother the meticulous thinker a little.
For example, the concept of the Pilot-Study Method could be
30 PABAPSYCHOLOGT
stretched in principle to include the Individual Screening Method.
Also, the Re-examination Method can be so quickly converted to a
fully verifying procedure that to single out the first
stage as ex-
ploratory and then call the second verification ( even though it
may
be a mere duplication) may seem a bit arbitrary. It is better,
however, for the present to take these introductory fact-finding
procedures as they are, since they are working successfully, and
allow refinements of consistency and classification to develop with
continued use and free discussion. There is
certainly no crucial
need for logical consistency since the methods are productive.
Bringing them into explicit focus as we have done may, we trust,
help both toward further clarification as well as more extensive use.
No absolute distinction marks the transition from exploratory
research to the second stage of method to which we now turn, that
of verification or establishment Rather, the transition is first of
all a change of emphasis in the objective or purpose of the research
worker. He need not always change his actual test procedure;
though he probably will So great, however, is the consequence of
the altered goal of the new stage that a very different tempo and
tone of research develops. The stress shifts
completely from
venturesome search to cautious assaying, each in its turn playing
an essential part
W. Methods of Verification
The scientific establishment of any fact is
admittedly a relative
matter. One's acceptance of a given finding or result often de-
pends, for example, upon his
personal attitude or philosophy.
Whether one is
conducting the research himself or only appraising
a published report of it, he may reach a decision regarding the
condusiveness of the result without realizing the degree to which
his mind was made up in advance. Accordingly, the candid ex-
plorer would do well to bring into conscious perspective at the
beginning any assumptions or prejudgments of the problem he can
discover in his approach. Otherwise, he might be undertaking
the investigation with an attitude that would require for his ac-
ceptance that it turn out in a definite, limited way; and if it did
not, he would be prone to reject the results on some ground or
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 31
other. There is even danger in a psychological experiment that
such an attitude might so influence investigation that accuracy
would be affected. In general, it is
exceedingly questionable
whether any experiment is worth doing until the investigator him-
self is
psychologically and philosophically prepared to take the
consequences seriously, whatever they may be.
We shall, therefore, assume that for a conclusive experiment we
have an experimenter prepared to accept the results in an objec-
tive manner. What kind of methods, then, are needed for the
crucial task of verifying an hypothesis in parapsychology?
A. Statistical Evaluation
First, there is the requirement of sound measurement. In para-
psychology this has to do with the estimation of significance with
respect to chance. So long as psi capacity is in need of investiga-
tion, there will always have to be provision to deal with chance as
a possible explanation of results. In a word, statistics is needed
in any branch of science for the investigation of functions not yet
fully understood and controllable at wflL Accordingly, when de-
signing the scope and size of the experiment, it is
necessary to take
thought and record in advance just what means will be used to
evaluate the results. For most problems of parapsychology, for-
tunately, standard methods of applied statistics serve very well
and there is little need for the novel and distinctive in this aspect
of the field. The use of the principal methods has been expressly
approved by both individual and group authority in statistics.
These main techniques are described in Chapter 9 (as well as in
the textbooks on statistics listed there) .
The test procedures that have been most widely used have been
chosen and developed partly with a view to making evaluation
comparatively easy. For the ESP researches the techniques in-
volving testing by means of cards have been most commonly relied
on, and the use of dice in the PK research has so far dominated
that branch of the inquiry. In the ESP investigations the require-
ment that there be a reasonable approximation to a random series
of targets (card order) has been sufficiently well met to serve the
needs of statistical theory by shuffling the cards and foEowing
32 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
witt a thumbnail cut. But the card order may, for special pur-
poses, be made up also on the basis of tables of random numbers.
In the measurement of the significance of rate of success in the
tests, it has for the most part been adequate to use the oldest
known procedure in parapsychological statistics as a yardstick
This method takes account of the total number of successes made
in a given number of trials. It accurately estimates the number
of hits to be expected on the theory of chance and finds the devia-
tion of the hit total from this mean chance expectation. This
deviation is then measured by means of ( divided by) the standard
deviation (SD); the quotient is the critical ratio (CR), a value
which may be converted by means of the standard normal prob-
ability integral table to an equivalent probability. Thus an esti-
mate is made of the likelihood that results as different from chance
expectancy as those in question would occur in a pure chance
series. This is the measure by which the investigator knows
whether or not his results are acceptably significant; that is, may
reasonably be classed as nonrandom events.
The ease with which the theoretical standard deviation is de-
rived and the wide applicability of the method to the whole area
of research in parapsychology for which standard methods of test-
ing have been devised have done much to organize the field and
to unify research activity within it Results of the different re-
searches can now be properly compared, combined, and, in gen-
eral, treated in a systematic manner.
B* Experimental Precautions
The second basic requirement of a definitive research in para-
psychology brings us to the aspect of experimental safeguards, and
to the most important of these, the insurance that, in a crucial ESP
test, there be absolutely no possibility of sensory communication.
If a test is to be at all crucial, there is no excuse for using conditions
that leave the question of sensory cues as one to be answered by
judgment or interpretation.
The possibility of sensory cues can conveniently be eliminated
in a card test of ESP, especially in a clairvoyance test; it is much
easier in that type of ESP test than in one either of pure telepathy
or one that allows for the possibility of telepathy (GESP). If
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 33
there is no special reason for including telepathy, therefore, the
test should by all means be carried out without a sender or agent
present who is aware of the card order. Almost all of the difficul-
ties that have arisen in controlling against sensory cues have come
up in tests of GESP. It is obviously a simple matter in a clairvoy-
ance test to screen a pack of cards entirely from a subject's view,
and such screening is necessary if a test is to be conclusive. With
an ordinary opaque screen large enough to rule out any possibility
that the subject might see around its
edges, the pack of cards can
be conveniently handled by the experimenter under adequate
conditions of control. Watchfulness against sensory observation
of the target in reflecting surfaces or through crevices is unneces-
sary if, in addition, the experimenter "plays his cards close," that is,
keeps the target card always in a guardedly safe location behind
the screen and face down.
A number of modified clairvoyance testing techniques involve
some elaboration of this simple screened card test The cards may
be enclosed in opaque envelopes or boxes that are then sealed, or
there may be greater distance interposed between the subject and
the cards by using different rooms, or even different buildings or
geographic areas. Again, in addition to the calling techniques just
described are those known as ESP matching techniques, tests in
which an unknown card is matched against a set of "key" cards
containing one of each type of symbol. The order of these latter
may be either known or unknown by the subject The various
modifications are not different enough in principle to call for dis-
cussion. The main techniques themselves are given in Chapter 8.
If a research project involves telepathy, the requirement for a
conclusive test calls for two rooms right from the start. Such
separation will call for a method of communication between the
two rooms. This should be a one-way method permitting only the
receiving subject or percipient to signal the agent when he is ready
for the next trial All sensory communication from die agent
would be suspect and it is necessary to go to considerable length
to rule out the possibility of communication, deliberate or un-
conscious, on the part of an agent in an adjoining room. If the
distance can be considerably increased, it would be an added
safeguard; if two people well known to each other are acting as
34 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
sender and receiver, steps should be taken to eliminate the possi-
bility of the use of concealed devices of modern radio communica-
tion* It is
always advisable, too, in attempting a conclusive test
of GESP to have the order of the cards recorded before the pack
is turned over to the agent, and to require that the percipient indi-
cate or record his responses in silence, allowing no possibility that
the agent could, in hearing that the percipient's call scored a miss,
shift the order of cards in such a way as to make the trial a hit
It is a particular advantage of the standard precognition test
that all
problems relating to the danger of sensory cues are auto-
matically eliminated. This advantage has even tempted some
experimenters to use the method in an exploratory way, since all
that is needed is to hand out a record sheet and ask the would-be
subject to fill in the column with what he anticipates will be
entered at the checking stage in the card column opposite. There
is, of course, a question whether many subjects are psychologically
prepared to undertake a test in precognition at so early a stage of
acquaintance with psi testing.
In the standard tests of psychokinesis there is, likewise, no prob-
lem of sensory cues; but there is a somewhat comparable one in
the need to eliminate the possibility of error due to physical im-
perfections in the dice or in the use of skilled methods of handling
or releasing them so as to influence their fall. These problems
have long since been adequately solved in a number of different
ways. Any inequalities in the dice are, for example, adequately
compensated for by the use of all the different faces of the die to
an equal extent as the target objective. It has also been found
possible in a variety of ways to avoid the risk that the subject may
use trick throws to influence the fall of the dice in PK tests. One
way is to require the use of a dice cup with a sufficiently roughened
interior and also deep enough to prevent the application of manual
skill to the roll of the dice. It has, likewise, been found practical
to release the dice by electric switch, allowing them to fall from a
V-shaped container onto a prepared (walled and padded) table.
Likewise, electrically driven, rotating cages have been used which
allow the dice to roll from one end of a long cage to another,
giving, sufficient time for them to come to rest at the lower end
and allow observation and recording. At this point a photographic
OBJECTIVE RESEAHCH METHODS 35
record can be made as a part of the automatic operation of the
apparatus.
G Care in Recording
A third general requirement for a proper experimental verifica-
tion in parapsychology concerns the making of adequate records
of the results. All the data of an experiment must be recorded in
such a way as to eliminate any possibility of error that could pro-
duce spurious results. For this purpose, the ideally careful ex-
periment needs to be set up in such a way that the responsibility
is shared between two persons qualified by training and selection
to produce a faithful record, shared in such a way that no error
made by either one could go undetected. This is referred to as
the two-experimenter plan and its
application to the various types
of experiment might briefly be reviewed.
The two-experimenter plan in a simple clairvoyance experiment
of the type already described may be managed in the following
way: The record pad presented to the subject for the recording of
his responses has a carbon inserted for duplication. The packs of
cards to be used in a given run have been recorded in advance with
one copy of the record in die possession of a second experimenter
who may or may not be actually present in the experimental room
at the time the test is
being conducted. At the end of the run the
subject is instructed to turn over his duplicate to the second ex-
perimenter or it
may be inserted in the slit
opening of a locked box
prepared for the purpose (by the second experimenter). Then
the first
experimenter who is
conducting the test can proceed to
check the run with the subject participating, using the copies
which they have of the card and call records. The second experi-
menter has his own copies of the records for safekeeping and for a
wholly independent check In this way, while errors could still be
made, they could not be made in a way that would produce extra-
chance effects without being caught
There are, of course, many modifications of this two-experi-
menter method. One of these that is
simpler in its routine and is
widely used consists of loading a target sheet of symbols in a
heavy, carefully-sealed manila envelope. The experimenter who
does this keeps a carbon copy of the target sheet. The other
36 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
experimenter asks the subject to register
his responses on a record
sheet (complete with carbon and a duplicate cafl sheet) attached
to the outside of the envelope, responses intended to duplicate as
far as possible the symbols on the target sheet enclosed. The
experimenter will need to be present throughout unless the sealing
is entirely adequate. He then takes the unopened envelope to the
second experimenter and in the presence of both the envelope is
opened. The checking is carried out independently by the two
experimenters, one working from the carbon sheets and the other
from the originals.
After complete agreement is reached on the
results, the score totals are entered independently in the record
files of each experimenter.
It is no great tax upon the intelligence of an experimental team
to design or modify the standard test procedure so as to make it
virtually impossible for the two experimenters, unconsciously or
otherwise, to overlook errors of recording, checking, or scoring.
To apply the two-experimenter practice even to GESP tests is not
difficult (speaking now only of the aspect of recording) especially
when the card order is recorded in advance with a copy going to
each experimenter and with the percipient's responses being re-
corded in duplicate. In precognition tests it is as simple as with
tests of clairvoyance. The comparable precaution in precognition
testing is to have the selection of the target order, as well as the
whole checking operation, done throughout as a joint operation by
the two experimenters with each retaining the full score record for
his own file. It is somewhat better still to arrange for duplicate
records both of targets and responses and to have independent
checking.
Applying the two-experimenter plan to the PK tests is somewhat
more awkward because it tends to clutter up the experimental
room with the presence of an additional person. Two observers
recording the fall of dice creates an impression of top-heavy em-
phasis on results that may be disturbing to the atmosphere of the
test Where photographic recording is
possible one recorder, with
the film record for a second check, can provide adequate control
against errors. If two recorders can operate without interfering
with the subject, the records should be made in silence and with
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 37
the record of each recorder invisible to the other during the test
This insures the independence of the two records.
D. Precautions Against Deception
A fourth type of requirement for sound verification might be
found in the consideration of precaution against deliberate error.
This is an unusual addition to scientific method, but it is called for
largely because of the exceptional character of the hypotheses
being tested. Also, some of the associations psi capacities have
had with practices in which deception was common make it easier
th*v" in most researches to suspect that the subject might have
deceived the experimenter. Accordingly, it is
advantageous, if not
necessary, to give special attention to this requirement
It is true, if all three of the requirements already listed have been
fully and carefully met, it would ordinarily be impossible for the
subject to practice any trickery; but it is
possible to add certain
supplementary safeguards that would further reinforce those
precautions. In precognition tests, however, no further control
against fraud is needed. In clairvoyance tests, too, the complete
exclusion of deception by the subject is
easily managed by the use
of a two-experimenter plan. In psychokinesis, likewise, if the use
of a rotating cage is
adopted, or any plan that eliminates the sub-
ject's handling of the dice (and, of course, he is not recording his
own results), subject trickery is ruled out. With GESP and pure
telepathy, precautions have to be elaborate and have to be adapted
to the special needs of the experimental situation. This method-
ological problem is often taken too lightly; as we have said, GESP
is tiie hardest psi-test procedure to control adequately against
error, especially error due to deception.
The safeguarding of the experiment against possible irresponsi-
bility on the part of the experimenters themselves has been made
a point for discussion in parapsychology,* though it seldom is in
other branches of science. This is a consequence of the revolu-
* In the most recent flare-up in the long controversy over parapsychology, G. R.
Price (Science and the supernatural. Science, August 26, 1955) suggested that
deliberate fraud on the part of the investigators is the explanation of experiments
that cannot be attributed to error or incompetence. His article initiated a contro-
versy that was carried on at length in the January 6, 1956 issue of Science, as well
as in a symposium on the topic in the Journal of Parapsychology for December 1955.
38 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
tionary character of its findings and the novelty of the field. It is
the general practice in the sciences simply to suspend judgment
about a new finding until adequate confirmation of a given experi-
ment has been reported by other investigators. Just how much
confirmation is needed for a discovery each may judge for himself.
It depends a great deal on how unexpected the finding is. But
tinder the circumstances unusual precautions have been taken in
parapsychology to add safeguards against possible error by the
experimenters
themselves error of either a deliberate or an un-
conscious type. That was the purpose of the two-experimenter
plan. It is not practicable, however, even in parapsychology ex-
periments, to require more than two experimenters for a given
project,
and that is where the line has been drawn. Only in a few
instances have three been assigned, but with too many managers
the investigation becomes unwieldy. The heightened apprehen-
siveness that led to such modifications, too, belonged rather to the
period of inflamed controversy which is
past, and for the more
normal situation now prevailing the two-experimenter team will
give assurance of adequate protection against error, even for the
most crucial verification stage. The cautious reader may still fall
back on confirmation for further guarantees.
These four main requirements of conditions for a crucial in-
vestigation in parapsychology have been outlined in a manner
suited to the purpose of this book. Certain general practices of
research tidiness could be added that apply to every research field.
It is
always wise, for instance, to draw up in advance a written plan
for a conclusive research project Special provision should be
made at the start to meet all
reasonably possible irregular con-
tingencies (e.g.,
what to do with cocked dice in PK, or incomplete
runs in ESP ) .
Disposition of records, provision for duplicates, and
a program of analyses can be provided to good advantage in the
statement of design.
There might be mentioned a great deal more on the side of good
research habits. However, the scope and degree of emphasis
followed will, we believe, adequately serve the needs and aims of
most of those who wish to pursue inquiries in
parapsychology with,
of course, the exception of veteran workers in the field; these latter
OBJECTIVE RESEARCH METHODS 39
should already have acquired the standards and the methods ap-
propriate to the most careful stages of a psi investigation. Those
who wish to acquire a reading acquaintance with the highest
standards of controlled psi testing may, for example, consult the
Pratt and Woodruff report.
1
But it is weE to keep in mind that
every limiting condition on an experiment is a burden, and exces-
sive use of precautions is unwarranted waste. The conditions
should be calculated to fit the needs, as intelligently conceived.
The conclusions, of course, depend upon the adequacy of the
weakest feature, not upon an elaborate display of many precau-
tions.
V. Methods of Distinguishing Types of Psi
Another level of methodology has developed in the research
program in parapsychology to establish the different types of psi
processes as distinguishable one from another.
*
For example, once
telepathy and clairvoyance had been experimentally established,
each under its own set of conditions, die question arose as to
whether the two were, in the last
analysis, experimentally distin-
guishable. A similar question was raised about precognition and
psychokinesis. In each case, the evidence for any given type was
sufficiently challenged by critical questioning to require new
methods for what amounted to a re-establishment of the type
concerned. A general account of these methodological distinctions
will help in the appreciation of the quality of the research proce-
dure on which the structure of parapsychology rests.
Again, it was clairvoyance that first
yielded to experimental
attack and permitted a distinguishing line to be drawn around its
phenomena. In clairvoyance tests
designed to exclude the possi-
bility of telepathy and precognitive telepathy, it was necessary to
have the trials made in such a way that not only did no one know
the card order during the test, but so that even when the checking
While this section is written from the point of view of the actual development
of methods for distinguishing types of psi, the purpose is still one of presenting
only a general description of methods. References to the literature will therefore
not be given here, but they will be found in the later chapters in which the results
of the research are discussed
40 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
was done no trace was left of the order in winch the responses were
made* Thus no one would ever know this order. In other words,
the test scored the number of hits made but left no record of the
order in which the calls or responses were made. Accordingly,
precognitive telepathy was ruled out; no potential agent ever knew
which target was for which trial when the final
checking was done.
This case against precognitive telepathy rests on the clairvoyance
tests with matching methods, and depends on the assumption
that the cards in a given pile that are laid down opposite a given
key card are not identified in terms of their original positions in
the padc The issue could be investigated with somewhat better
nicety by means of a clairvoyance test machine in which merely
the total hits and trials are counted.
To safeguard a telepathy test against the possibility of precogni-
tive clairvoyance was more difficult It was necessary to avoid
having any card or other abjective target recorded or existing any-
where, either at the time of the test or kter on. The agent or
sender had to select the target mentally and, after the run was
finished, to check the percipient's record from his own subjective
code. To serve the agent as a random guide in
selecting the target
order, a shuffled pack of numbered cards or a list of random num-
bers might be followed; but the code which the agent used had to
be one which he alone knew and which he could never record. No
physical record could be allowed that could disclose the code, even
by means of clairvoyance. The problem of
introducing a second
observer so as to make the test more reliable presented a greater
difficulty. It was necessary for the agent to communicate his code
to an assistant, using wholly subjective references in
making his
meaning clear. He had to convey his code by hints and vague
dues to common memories, avoiding even an auditory stimulus
that might serve as a basis for disclosure
through clairvoyance.
The procedure is
exceedingly circuitous and perhaps not entirely
logic-tight Telepathy is the hardest of the psi types to isolate by
distinctive experimental test.
The test of
precognition has been successfully safeguarded
against the possibility of explanation by psychokinesis by a
method of
selecting the target order. This method involves an
extremely complex computation, starting with the throwing of
OBJECTIVE BESEARCH METHODS 41
dice to get a set of numbers. These numbers are involved in a
routinized but complicated operation with the use of an electrical
computer, ending up with a set of numbers that, by means of a
fixed code, indicates the targets of the test Everything is me-
chanical routine after the selection of the numbers by the throw of
the dice. Although someone could, by means of PK, affect the fall
of the dice that start the process of selecting the target series, he
could not, in any conceivable way, produce a given set of targets
by that means. The computation he would have to make to con-
nect the dice with the end result would seem to be an impassable
barrier.
The psychokinesis test itself has been safeguarded against the
alternative of precognition. The supposition of the counter-
theory of precognition would be that the subject or experimenter,
in selecting the face of the die which is to be the target for a given
set of throws, might base his choice upon precognitive awareness
of the way the dice were going to fall by chance in the series to
foflow. That is, he would choose the face he foresaw would turn
up the most frequently. It is
possible to eliminate this hypothesis
by simply choosing the target face by the throw of a die (see p.
62). The routine adherence to the practice of always taking the
target faces in the order from one to six would leave very little
room for precognition, though there is a slight advantage in the
other device mentioned.
Other counter proposals have been made, including the use of
the Latin Square method of determining random target sequence.
This can be done to assure that the different faces will be equally
represented in each subdivision of the data. If the simplest
method of throwing a die to select a target is used, before the ex-
periment is finished it is
necessary to equalize the number of times
each face is used as target. This requires only that the die be
thrown again if a face is obtained after ifhas already been used as
target the requisite number of times. The best evidence of PK,
however, the internal decline effect known as "the quarter distri-
bution" or QD result, is not affected by the precognition counter-
hypotheses. The results had been originally collected for another
purpose. (The QD analysis was a later research carried out by
the Re-examination Method. )
42 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
For die most part the efforts that have been made to distinguish
between the various types of psi have represented an advanced
level of inquiry even for the research worker in
parapsychology
himself. Most of it has been done under the better controlled
conditions appropriate to verification. We must remember, how-
ever, that those not primarily concerned with the advancement of
parapsychology proper will not be at this
stage particularly con-
cerned with these highly refined efforts at the discriminative in-
vestigation of a specified type of psi phenomena.
In other words, the investigator who wishes to use an ESP test
in some related research area need not attempt to distinguish in a
thoroughgoing fashion among clairvoyance, telepathy, and pre-
cognition. For most purposes it would not make any great differ-
ence which type of psi was involved. In any case, we do not
know that the types represent fundamental differences. And if
they do there is no evidence yet that one type substitutes for
another which the subject is
attempting to use. There is no reason
to think, for example, that if a subject is
attempting to succeed in a
clairvoyance test that he does actually achieve his results by pre-
cognitive telepathy even though the experimental conditions would
allow such an alternative round-about way of response. This is
not, however, to overlook the need for such clear-cut experimental
distinctions as may be made.
The methods presented in the sections of this
chapter, along
with the supporting techniques (Part II) that implement them,
are comparable in objectivity to die areas of science to which, in
general, parapsychology belongs: first, psychology; and, more
generally, biology. The specific techniques of investigation are
naturally adapted to the phenomena to be dealt with and the con-
ditions under which they must be studied. These were deter-
mined by tiie
spontaneous manifestations of psi capacity that
initiated the research program in
parapsvchology; that is to say,
they were largely determined by the nature of the phenomena
themselves.
The distinction between the exploratory and verification
stages
of research method has been strongly emphasized in this
chapter
in order to guide the student and research worker as quickly and
OBJECTIVE BESEARCH METHODS 43
effectively as possible to the stage at which he should be working.
It should be pointed out, however, that for the most part it is
only
the advanced investigator himself who is
likely to be especially
concerned with verification at its most rigorous leveL If owe inter-
pretation of the need for this volume is correct, it is
probable that
most of those concerned with actual methods, those who will un-
dertake psi testing in one interest or another, will deal mainly with
what in this chapter have been ranked as exploratory procedures.
Let it be made clear, then, that there is no ranking of these
methodological stages such that one can say the more rigorously
controlled the test method the better. It may, in fact, be the
worse if the situation calls for a free-moving, more exploratory
approach. For example, in the wide range of what might be
called clinical applications of psi tests, ready adaptability in
method is so important that the more elaborate procedures and
precautions of a crucial experiment should not even be considered.
Fortunately for parapsychology, however, some of those whose
interest in psi begins as an incidental one may make first-rate
discoveries that would call for further pursuit under the most
advanced research design. Such an outcome is
devoutly to be
wished for and encouraged. If this general outline of the ways of
investigating psi has been well enough presented to give an intro-
ductory picture, the inquirer, on whatever front, will be able to
find or develop the plan of procedure best suited to his purpose.
The various adaptations of methods to particular uses such as
clinical applications will doubtless develop many alterations; cer-
tainly as the interest in psi expands into adjacent fields, the
methods will have to be adapted to fit the specialized needs. It
will be advantageous, however, to maintain the same basic stand-
ards throughout and thus allow for easy comparison and interpre-
tation of results across the boundary lines. The methods now in
use will be found to adapt readily and widely without changing
the basic structure.
Reference
1. PRATT, J. G. and WOODRUFF, J. L.: Size of stimulus symbols in ex-
trasensory perception. J. ParapsychoL, 3:121-158, 1939.
44 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Additional Reading
ANGIER, R, P., COBB, P. W.y DAJLLENBACH, !L M.s DUNLAP, K, FEBN-
BERGEB, S. W^ JOHNSON, H. M., and McCoMAS, H. C.: Adequate ex-
perimental testing of the hypothesis of "extrasensory perception"
based on card-sorting. /. Parapsychol, 3:28-37, 1939.
BURTT, E. A.: Principles and Problems of Right Thinking. New York,
Harper, 1931.
EDITORIAL; Parapsychology and scientific recognition. J. Parapsychol
16:225-232, 1952.
EDUOBIAL: Rational acceptability of the case for psi J. Parapsychol
18:184-194, 1954.
EDITORIAL: Some considerations of methods in parapsychology, J.
Parapsychol, 15:69-81, 1954.
EDITORIAL: The value of reports of spontaneous psi experiences /.
.
Parapsychol, 12:231-235, 1948.
MTOFHY, G.: The importance of spontaneous cases. /. Am. Sac. Psych
Res., 47:89-103, 1953.
POPE, D, H., and PRATT, J. G.: The ESP controversy. /. ParapsychoL
6:174-189, 1942.
RHINE, J. B.: The Reach of the Mind. New York, Sloane, 1947, pp.
154-183.
FF
BHINE, J. B.: Impatience with scientific method in parapsychology
/. Parapsychol, 11:283-295, 1947.
RHINE, J. B., et al: Extrasensory Perception after Sixty Years. New
York, Holt, 1940, pp. 22-69.
RHINE, J. B., HUMPHREY, B. M., and PRATT, J. G.: The PK effect: Spe-
cial evidence from hit patterns. IE. Quarter distributions of the
half-set /. Parapsychol, 9:150-168, 1945.
RHINE, L. E.: Conviction and associated conditions in spontaneous
cases. /. Parapsychol, 15:164-191, 1951.
SOAL, S. G., and PBATT, J. G. ESP performance and target sequence.
J. Parapsychol, 15:192-215, 1951.
The ESP symposium at the A.PA. /. Parapsychol, 2:247-272, 1938.
Chapter 3
The Facts About Psi and Its
Types
HILE we shall take for granted that the reader who has come
so far as to begin this chapter will have a sufficiently open mind
to consider this necessarily brief review of the case for psi, ade-
quate references will be given for any who may wish more ex-
tensive evidence.
In presenting the facts about psi we must, of course, leave the
reader to determine for himself the extent of his acceptance of
them. At the same time, it is taken for granted that any accurate
presentation of evidence on an important question merits atten-
tion, whatever the preconceptions of the reader. Science we all
like to think needs and accepts no authority; its course is deter-
mined by its facts. The findings here summarized are receiving
attention, however, not only because of the reliability of the evi-
dence in support of them, but also because they are manifestly
important to many departments of human interest.
After a consideration of the evidence for the establishment of
psi, there will be a review of the different types of psi occurrence
that have been experimentally isolated. There will be left for
succeeding chapters the facts about psi in its relation to the physi-
cal world, about its
psychological nature, and its relation to some
of the other fields of science.
L The Evidence for Psi
It is now safe to say though only recently so that the collec-
tions of spontaneous case material themselves constitute valuable
evidence in support of the occurrence of psL It is
quite true that
this material would not be sufficient by itself, but along with the
experimental evidence it offers a very considerable amount of
45
46 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
support to the condusiveness of the case. Now that the spon-
taneous cases in the collections at different centers number in the
thousands, and systematic classification and analysis of this mate-
rial have been made by different workers, there emerges an im-
pressive outline of the orderliness of the similar types of experience
even though they come from widely different cultures and different
periods of time. As research workers studying these reports ob-
serve the recurrence of familiar patterns of experience, each with
its
identifying characteristics, the characteristics turn out to be as
distinctive as is the clinical case material of the physician which
characterizes types of disease syndromes.
1
Accordingly, respect
for this case material has grown as study has continued. It is a
significant fact that each of the types of psi phenomena that have
been observed and identified in the spontaneous case collections
has now been demonstrated experimentally. Thus a mutual order
of testimony from case study and experiment has resulted.
But psi phenomena have been under investigation for at least
75 years, and experimental work now forms the main basis of evi-
dence. The long exposure of the problems to
controversy has
itself led to a great deal of research as one explorer after another
tried to improve on the work of his predecessors who had failed to
win scientific
recognition. Studies have cropped out in a number
of adjacent fields in connection with other interests as, for instance,
in the study of hypnosis, among psychoanalysts and other psy-
chiatrists, among anthropologists, and in still other fields. Dur-
ing the last 40 years there has been a growing interest in explora-
tory testing of ESP in university laboratories, mainly in depart-
ments of
psychology. The great bulk of accumulated experi-
mental evidence now available is a consequence of these scattered
but numerous studies made either within the university laboratory
or at least under the influence of standards set by the university
researches.
The first
experiment which in our judgment met the criteria for
a conclusive test of ESP was one that has come to be known as the
Pearce-Pratt Series. This experiment, conducted at Duke Univer-
sity in 1933-34,
2
was of the clairvoyance type with experimenter
and subject in different
buildings at least 100 yards apart. Dupli-
cate records were kept both of the cards and of the subject's re-
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 47
spouses,
one copy of each being placed in an envelope and sealed
immediately following the end of the session, and the sealed
envelopes being delivered to a second experimenter. The results
of the series were so far above chance expectation as to be highly
significant
and no alternative to ESP has ever been proposed
(except the vaguely implied one that it could have been fraudu-
lently produced) that was not already anticipated and met by the
experimental design. Since one phase of the experiment involved
the presence of both experimenters throughout the session, con-
spiracy
would have needed to involve all three participants. The
two experimenters in this case were the present authors.
Through the succeeding years a number of other experiments
followed in which the standards of control required for verification
were maintained. Perhaps the most elaborately controlled of
these was that published by Pratt and Woodruff3
in 1939, about
five years after the first
publication of the Pearce-Pratt series.
The Pratt-Woodruff series was likewise a clairvoyance experiment,
and again it was conducted with the two-experimenter plan. The
two experimenters operated throughout this series as checks upon
each other to avoid the possibility of error in the production and
recording of the results. A third member of the team played an
essential part in the precautions, mainly to see that the record
sheets were duly preserved and safeguarded by a system of inter-
locking controls. In this experiment the subjects tested were 32
volunteers. Here, too, the scoring rate was highly significant and
chance as well as all the other conceivable hypotheses were ruled
out, leaving only the hypothesis of ESP.
The confirmation of the case for ESP was not, however, at all
confined to the Duke Laboratory. Other studies were made in
other departments of psychology and elsewhere in this country as
well as in Western Europe. By far the most elaborately controlled
of these investigations were those conducted in London by Soal
and Goldney
4
and kter by Soal and Bateman.5
These were of
the GESP (general extrasensory perception) type which call for
more elaborate controls, but such were the safeguards introduced
by Soal and his colleagues that these studies belong within the
classification of conclusive tests.
48 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
The ESP investigations by Seal and Bis colleagues offer evidence
that is
especially needed for those who are inclined t
suspect that
favorable ESP results may have been unduly affected by the
experimenter's belief in psi ( The suspicion is not consistent with
the facts.) Soal was one of the more outspoken critics of the
earlier ESP investigations when he began, anl repeatedly during
the course of a long period of searching for ESP subjects he an-
nounced that his results were negative. It was months after his
tests were completed that his attention was called to evidence of
ESP in his data. This "indirect evidence" as we may call it, was,
so to speak, forced upon his attention by another worker against
his own anticipation. Soal had tested 160 subjects for ESP capac-
ity and at first
thought his results could be explained by chance.
Another investigator, Whately Carington, meanwhile had found
among his own ESP records a tendency on the part of subjects to
"displace/* as he called it, and to hit the target which came before
or that which came after the one set up for the subject at the
time.
6
Whenhe called SoaTs attention to this effect and asked him
to examine his
card-calling tests for displacement, Soal discovered
that two of his own subjects had shown it
7
They had not gone
above chance on the target, but on the "next door" targets they
scored so strikingly that even when all the necessary corrections
were made the results were still
statistically significant It was
this displacement effect, then, that became the main basis of the
further conclusive experiments under the direction of Soal and
Goldney*
Indirect evidence of various kinds was also turned up in other
investigations, and all
together it makes up a good part of the body
of evidence of ESP. For example, in the early experiments there
was evidence of a falling off of success in the runs or in the series
of trials given as a block in the test situation. This decline in
scoring seemed to be something of a characteristic of the test. At
least it held for a considerable number of subjects in various in-
vestigations. It was at first
erroneously called a fatigue curve.
Jephson,
8
who first
gave primary attention to decline curves,
pointed out that the pioneer study of ESP by Estabrooks9
at
Harvard had shown such a decline. Now Estabrooks himself did
not base his conclusions upon this effect. But when this experi-
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 49
mait was later evaluated for the significance of its decline in
scoring rate in the run, this evidence alone gave it the status of an
extrachance series.
10
It was thus an incidental result unantici-
pated by Estabrooks and even ignored in his estimate of signifi-
cance. This unexpected finding in Estabrooks' evidence would
have a more telling effect upon some minds than would the obvi-
ous direct results upon which he based his own conclusions.
It might be well to turn to another branch of psi investigations
for a third illustration of this indirect type of evidence. In the
earlier work on psychokinesis, most of which would qualify only
as exploratory by the standards of evidence presented in the pre-
ceding chapter, final verification was based upon precisely this in-
direct kind of proof. Although a number of experimenters had
completed PK test series without suspecting that the data had any
First Second Third First Second Third First Second Third
run run run run run run run run run
MECHANICALLY RELEASED HAND THROWN TOTAL
Decline in scoring rate within the set of three runs in the first series of
dice-throwing tests of PK (J. Parapsychol, 7:20-43, 1943).
significance beyond that shown by the total scores, when later
the records were analyzed more closely in the Parapsychology
Laboratory internal declines in the scoring rate became manifest11
These declines took the general direction that many ESP record
sheets had shown a falling off in scoring down the lun; but there
was also a falling off to the right as the record sheets were filled
out This gave, as a combined effect, the most pronounced de-
cline between the upper left and the lower right quarters of the
page. The analyses were carried out on records from a number
of earlier PK research projects that had long been gathering dust
5Q PARAPSYCHOLOGY
in the files, and it was obviously an investigation of unanticipated
results* But when* from the continuation of the study, confirma-
tion emerged from one series of data to another so that finally a
high order of significance
was shown, the evidence of the operation
of a PK function became overwhelming. It far surpassed the
condusiveness of the evidence from the general results themselves
which had been anticipated by the separate investigators.
In addition to the direct evidence of adequately safeguarded
experiments and the supporting evidence of widespread indirect
psi effects, there is a third type of support for the case for psi
This evidence emerges from studies of the relation of this capacity
to other observable operations or conditions. One of the most
familiar and best established of these lawful relations is shown by
Schmeidler12
in her work on the association of ESP results with
the subject's attitude toward that capacity. The subject's attitude
toward ESP was registered in advance of clairvoyance tests given
to students in the classroom, and it was found that those with the
more negative attitude (goats) tended to score at a lower rate
than those taking a more positive attitude (sheep). The sheep-
goat differences in scoring average were found to be fairly consist-
ent over many experiments, and the results added up to a highly
significant block of evidence. Without concerning ourselves for
the moment with the nature of the relationship, the simple objec-
tive fact that a long-continued and orderly association of scoring
and attitude toward the test was shown is another indication of
lawfulness.
Other evidence based on psfs relation to adjacent fields might
be cited For example, the recent ESP work of van Bussdhbach18
makes a similar point in a very different setting. Van Busschbach's
test of school children in the classroom has been carried out in
three different general situations, in the cities of Amsterdam and
Utrecht in Holland and in Durham and Burlington in North Caro-
lina, ILS.A. Tests were designed for the fifth and sixth grades,
but in Holland they were also given to popils in the upper grades
through high school In Amsterdam only the fifth and sixth grades
gave significant evidence of ESP and this held true as well when
the experiment was repeated in Utrecht Again in the U.S.A.
only the fifth and sixth (of the four grades, fifth to eighth, tested)
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 51
scored significantly. There seems to be some lawful relation that
holds over the area of testing involved, at least as far as this par-
ticular experiment is concerned. Even at present when the psi
function is little understood certain natural properties and con-
sistencies become evident as the investigations proceed.
There is still a fourth type of contribution to the kinds of evi-
dence of psi This is the evidence of rational acceptability which
may be especially important to the mind that is not trained to the
appreciation of scientific method itself. In order to be acceptable
the findings have to be made reasonable. Most of the material to
be presented in the chapters that follow concerns the relations of
psi to other fields of science. Such interrelations make up the
rationale of the newly discovered results. Familiarity with them
will give such indications as we have gleaned as to how, and how
well, psi fits into the scheme of nature as currently conceived.
There are, however, some general points on this rational picture
of psi that may be referred to now, especially since they are likely
to be lost in the more specific treatments to follow. We have
pointed out already that the experiments in parapsychology have
confirmed in general what had already been suggested by the
study of spontaneous cases. It is an important fact indeed that the
experiments have followed and supported the main types of psi
phenomena as exemplified in the experiences of everyday life. It
is noteworthy, too, that as the types of capacity suggested by the
spontaneous material took more definite form under experimental
study, a certain pattern of orderliness within the whole field of
phenomena began to emerge. We no longer had telepathy, clair-
voyance, precognition, and psychokinesis as isolated phenomena.
From their common qualities an essential unity could be recog-
nized. All, for instance, occurred on a very elusive spontaneous
basis, and even the best experimental efforts to regulate and con-
trol any one of the four types have thus far failed to overcome this
fugitive
character. Certain general psychological characteristics
were found throughout the whole range, and none was limited to
one area of phenomena alone. Also, just as the spontaneous cases
showed no apparent limitation of time and space, so those demon-
strated experimentally likewise indicate a similar independence of
physical
relation.
52 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
The result has been that, more than had been suspected in the
early decades of parapsychology, the field of study was found to
be concerned with some kind of systematic interaction (however
unknown and nonphysical its nature) between the subject and the
objective environment, a form of communication between the in-
dividual and his surroundings. In ESP and PK then there has been
discovered a system of reaction, one that parallels the sensori-
motor exchange with which the individual most commonly inter-
acts with his physical world.
In fact, so systematic has the character of the psi function now
been shown to be that it has been possible to infer the logical
likelihood of a different type of phenomenon from the occurrence
of one already verified. When, for instance, clairvoyance had
been satisfactory demonstrated, it was anticipated that psycho-
kinesis should be found to occur also. The existence of a psi
influence of tie object upon the subject logically suggested that
there should also be a reaction of the subject upon the object.
The experiments in psychokinesis were introduced in this way.
Likewise, from the fact that clairvoyance showed no consistent
relation to space, it was inferred that it should similarly show no
dependence upon time. This was the logic that led to the first
precognition experiments as conducted at Duke in 1933.
As the evidence of rational consistency in the expanding knowl-
edge of psi phenomena grows with continued research, much of
the earlier unacceptable strangeness disappears. It can now be
said that a fully verified case for the occurrence of psi under the
limitations specified in the reports has been made and all the
criteria of scientific proof have been met While an indefinite
period of further investigation will have to follow before a suffi-
cient understanding of psi can be reached to allow an effective
grasp of its nature and an application of its
principles, we at least
know today that the phenomena occur, that the various types of
effects can be identified, and that a complex system of related find-
ings have emerged.
Weturn now to examine the evidence which differentiates these
various types of psi phenomena. In doing so one change of per-
spective will be adopted that needs to be specified here. As we
pointed out in the chapter on method, there is a great deal of
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 53
difference in the standards of evidence required for the establish-
ment of a revolutionary new finding and for the elaboration of
subordinate details regarding the nature of the new phenomenon.
For the establishment of psi only the highest standards of evidence
higher than those ordinarily familiar in science could be ac-
cepted as adequate to overcome the special skepticism en-
countered. But in turning attention to the distinction between
types of psi phenomena we shall occasionally consider blocks of
evidence that, in the establishment of the case for psi itself, would
have been rated only as of good exploratory quality. For ex-
ample, a two-experimenter plan may not always have been in use
in the evidence considered in the rest of the chapter, although for
the most part it was.
II. The Case for Clairvoyance
As should have been expected from the simplicity of the experi-
mental controls required, clairvoyance experiments are the easiest
of all to conduct. As a result a great many more trials have been
made in testing for clairvoyance than for other types of psi
phenomena. Not only is it easier to control against the more com-
mon experimental errors such as possible sensory cues or decep-
tion by the subject, but it is also easier to eliminate any alternative
hypothesis (ie., of another type of psi) that might be applied to
the data. To rule out ordinary telepathy as familiarly conceived,
it is
necessary only to keep the pack of target cards inverted
throughout the shuffling and testing procedure. When eventually
the cards are looked at for recording, the percipient has already
recorded his responses and telepathy from the experimenter is
impossible. But after the establishment of what was at least a
preliminary case for precognition, a counterhypothesis was pro-
posed to the effect that the results of clairvoyance tests could be
explained by a combination of precognition and telepathy.
1*
The
percipient, instead of using clairvoyance, could look forward to
the point at which the cards were recorded by the experimenter
and by precognitive telepathy acquire information of the card
order from him.
54 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
As soon as this alternative of precognitive telepathy was pointed
out as a defect in the case for clairvoyance, the proposal was made
that clairvoyance be tested with a machine that would record only
the total number of trials and the total number of successes. This
would eliminate the possibility of precognitive telepathy. Results
giving significant
evidence of clairvoyance were reported by
Tyrrell,
15
who used such an apparatus in an exploratory series of
experiments. The point was met, too, in another way. This was
done by card-matching techniques as in the Humphrey and
Pratt "chute" series.
16
In this a pack of twenty-five cards were
distributed by the subject who dropped each card through an
opening marked by one of the five key cards* The cards fell in
five disarranged piles and the order in which they were laid down
was not noticed or recorded, The experimenters, in picking up
each pile for recording and checking, paid no attention to the
order. Accordingly, the subject, even if he had been inclined to
try precognitive telepathy, would not have had an ordered se-
quence of card observations which he might observe by precogni-
tion as the experimenter made his record of the cards. Even if the
subject were to try to think (unconsciously) as he indicated where
the first card was to be pkced, "What will the experimenter find
this card to be when he picks it up and looks at it?" it
appears
doubtful that he could forsee (by precognitive telepathy) what
the card was going to be in a certain place and time and still be
free to put it there. In any event, it would be impossible unless
the experimenter were consciously or unconsciously keeping track
of the cards as he looked at them. At least for the present the
results from a number of the well-controlled
matching series of
clairvoyance tests have sufficiently satisfied the critical mind so as
not to have made it seem urgent to
develop a new clairvoyance
test machine just to carry the matter to a further point of deter-
mination.17
The case for the experimental demonstration of clair-
voyance appears to be sufficiently clear-cut for the present re-
quirements of the field
III. The Problem of Telepathy
Telepathy is
by far the most familiar of the different types of psi
phenomena. Most of the spontaneous cases reported are open to
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 55
interpretation in terms of either telepathy or clairvoyance, but as
should be expected, most people having such experiences think
of them as telepathic. The exchange between people is the most
needed, the most interesting, and the most dramatic type of extra-
sensory communication. Also, there is, in certain cultures, a
philosophical inclination to regard telepathy with more favor than
clairvoyance. But even though telepathy is both more popular,
more familiar, and more readily acceptable even to the general
scientist, it has proved to be a much more difficult
phenomenon to
investigate and experimentally isolate from clairvoyance,,
Until the refinement of methods introduced at the Duke Labora-
tory in the early thirties, there had not even been any attempt to
conduct telepathy tests in a way that excluded the possibility of
clairvoyance. The agent always had an object or objective record
which theoretically could have served as the target just as easily
as the agent's thought. The first efforts at separation of clairvoy-
ance and telepathy aimed only at excluding the possibility of con-
temporaneous clairvoyance, merely requiring that the agent have
no object or objective record at the time the percipient was at-
tempting to apprehend his thought
18
With the signal that the
subject's
choice had been made, the agent was free to make his
own record. But here again (as had occurred to the case for
clairvoyance) the introduction of the evidence of precognition
brought in a new angle of consideration,
17
Precognitive clairvoy-
ance, then, had to be considered as a counterhypothesis, and this
gave more difficulty than had the exclusion of simple clairvoyance.
As a provision against precognitive clairvoyance it was required
that the agent make no permanent record at att of the sequence of
symbols which served as the targets for the pure telepathy test To
select the symbol sequence he could use a deck of number cards
and a code which he himself had mentally devised but had not
recorded (or expressed in any physical way). He could go
through the test much the same as he had done in the first efforts
at a pure telepathy test, with the exception that no record ever
was made of individual targets. Only the record of the total run
scores was recorded.
This procedure was adequate for an exploratory test but not for
a conclusive one because of the need for a second experimenter
56 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
or an assistant to verify the agent*s checking of the percipient's
record. To get around the difficulty and obtain a second check it
was necessary that the agent somehow transfer his code to another
person without leaving any objective trace that could make the
secret available to the percipient by clairvoyance.
This step was achieved by using a veiled method of communica-
tion that depended for its
meaning upon common memories of
the two persons concerned. No one else, even if he heard them,
would have known what the two meant in their conversation
which transferred the code unless telepathically lie knew what
the two persons were thinking and what their common memories
had been. By this method experiments in pure telepathy were
carried out with positive results by McMahan at Duke18
and then
by Soal in London/ Accordingly, the question of telepathy has,
up to this stage of clarification, been answered in the affirmative.
One person can apprehend another person's thought without the
use of intermediate objective records. Whether this communica-
tion is from one mind to another, without a direct involvement of
nervous systems which would introduce something else than direct
thoughttransference, cannot be decided at the present stage of our
knowledge of the human organism and personality. Is is not in-
conceivable that some clairvoyant impression of the agent's ner-
vous system, vocal cords, or other physical accompaniment of
thought may be playing a part in the so-called pure telepathy tests.
It is better to say that as far as present knowledge of mind-brain
relation permits an experiment to be designed on the matter,
telepathy has been demonstrated between one person and another.
That is where the matter will have to be left for the present.
IV. The Case for Precognition
There were two distinct grounds for
inferring the occurrence
of precognition in advance of any experiment to test the hy-
pothesis. First, there had been the evidence of spontaneous cases.
Throughout history and in all the case collections
examples of
apparent prophecy or precognition were common. When, a few
years ago, L. E. Rhine1
classified die Duke collection with respect
Reference 5, pp. 255-258,
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 57
to precognition, it was found that at least 40% of the cases in-
dicated ESP of future happenings. There was, moreover, no ap-
parent difference in the character of these experiences other than
in the face that the event, instead of being only remote in space,
was also in the future. While this spontaneous material was not
regarded as offering conclusive evidence, it was noteworthy that
precognition cases often made a stronger impression than instances
of contemporaneous ESP. The timing of the experience in ad-
vance of the event with which it was connected, while it allowed
greater range for coincidence, also gave more opportunity for the
communication of it and in some cases the recording, as, for ex-
ample, in letters.
The second basis which made precognition predictable was in
the experimental findings on ESP. By December, 1933, when pre-
cognition was first
subjected to experimental test at the Duke
Laboratory, a considerable amount of exploratory evidence had
accumulated to indicate that ESP showed no regular relations to
distance between subject and object This experimental confirma-
tion of the impression already given by the spontaneous case
material that distance was no limiting factor in ESP led to the
inference that the ability should not be expected to be related to
time either. In a time-space system independence of space would
have to mean comparable freedom from time. It was accordingly
anticipated that subjects would be able to predict the order of
cards prior to the shuffling.
The experimental study of precognition has gone on in a limited
way for more than 20 years; it is still an active field of inquiry
and may prove to be the most stimulating branch of psi research
for a long time to come. The first
experiments involved the at-
tempt to predict card orders in advance of hand shuffling of the
pack. When this had been found to succeed, mechanical shuffling
was then introduced to get around the possibility that hand shuf-
fling might be influenced by ESP itself.
20
Later still it was con-
ceded as a theoretical possibility that the card shuffling by ma-
chine could be influenced by PK and thus make the resulting card
order conform to the predictions already registered. As a third
advance, then, there came the introduction of what is known as
the "weather cut."
21'22
Figures printed in temperature readings
58 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
published in the daily press were by specified rules taken and used
as the basis for the cut to be made in the packs of cards used as
targets. This introduced a large order of natural phenomena as
an essential link something presumed to be beyond the control of
PK. The test procedure as a whole represented a complex system
in itself so that the alternative of matching calls against future tar-
gets in some other way than by precognition would involve much
more than exerting an influence on the weather or the thermom-
eter. In fact, the alternative hypothesis is rather fantastic. Sig-
nificant results were obtained under conditions using the weather
cut and the two-experimenter plan. In the Rhine and Humphrey
investigation of this problem two series were carried out, each in-
dependent of the other, with results which, while only marginally
significant, supported each other,,
A very considerable amount of earlier work had been done,
some on the two-experimenter level, both at the Duke Labora-
tory
28-20
and in England (by Tyrrell,
24
Carington,
6
and Soal and
Goldney*) all of which involve precognition; but alternative ex-
planations do remain as theoretical possibilities in these experi-
ments. There is no need to go over these exploratory studies in
detail here.
In recent years improvements of design have been introduced
to give still further assurance that any significant results obtained
can be attributed only to a precognitive type of psi A number of
studies in the exploratory category have been carried through at
the Duke Laboratory under these improved conditions.25"28
The
results are sufficient to encourage their continued use and sufficient
to keep this
challenging branch of study active. The essential
advance in these studies is that the final
step in the selection of the
targets is a complicated calculation, done by means of an elec-
trical
computing machine. This calculation is
beyond anything
the human mind would be capable of doing. The routine is
rigidly fixed, but of course comes up with a different set of num-
bers each time-numbers that in no conceivable way could have
been forced to come out as they did and could only have been
foreseen by true precognition.
Data of a higher order of significance than is
ordinarily required
may reasonably be desired for a conclusion that will have such
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 59
revolutionary consequences as the establishment of precognition.
Most of the parapsychology workers who followed the ESP re-
searches and advanced through the different stages of designing
precognition experiments were satisfied at the stage of the
"weather cut" method of target randomization. Some at even
still earlier stages thought the evidence conclusive. To those, how-
ever, to whom precognition is
philosophically impossible all the
evidence will stfll
probably not be sufficient For those who con-
sider that the experimental work was only needed to confirm the
rational expectations wehave mentioned, the demands for verifica-
tion have already been sufficiently met But if the present strong
indications are correct, the accumulation of evidence will go on
until opposing philosophies give way, as they eventually must do
under pressure from reliable experimental results.
V. The Case for Psychokinesis
The approach to psychokinesis was very similar to that leading
up to the experimental study of precognition. There had, in the
reports of spontaneous "psychic
*
experiences, been numerous in-
stances in which some unexplainable physical effect was reported
the stopping of clocks, falling of pictures, and the like, generally
associated with a crisis or tragedy involving a member of the
family. The interpretation usually given by those to whom these
physical effects were manifested was that some personal agency
brought them about in a way that no known physical principle
could account for. There was implied some direct action of mind
over matter as the term psychokinesis denotes.
It would have been, however, quite as reasonable to expect
some such effect as PK from a rational interpretation of ESP. Be-
ginning with the analogy of the sensorimotor interaction between
the subject and his environment in its more familiar manifestation,
and having found in extrasensory perception the counterpart of
sensory perception,- it seemed reasonable to look for evidence of an
extramotor response to pair off with the familiar motor response
system. Or again, (using one of the familiar patterns of thought
followed in all the sciences, the law of reaction) when it was
established that an object can be cognized by means of ESP it
60 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
seemed to follow logically that a reaction to the action should be
expected to occur likewise. In other words, when an object and
subject ware found to interact in one direction it was anticipated
there would also be an effect in the reverse direction from the
subject to the object. Accordingly at a certain stage of experimen-
tal
development of the ESP work it seemed justifiable to look for
PK experimentally.
Historically there had been many ineffectual efforts made to in-
vestigate claims of physical effects said to have been produced by
extraphysical influences or agencies. However, the first
investiga-
tion of PK by methods that lent themselves to adequate control
began with the adaptation of dice-throwing as a laboratory test at
Duke early in 1934.2*
After nine years of exploratoxy experiments
the Duke Laboratory arrived at a definitive approach to the prob-
lem which meets the requirements for verification on its more ad-
vanced level These conclusive studies ( made, incidentally by the
Re-examination Method) were made on the records of eighteen
separate investigations carried out in, or in conjunction with, the
Duke Laboratory, The individual investigations were, for the
most part, different, but all of them involved the same essential
operation, the subject's conscious effort to influence the fall of dice
so as to make a specified face or combination of faces turn up.
It had been observed in
re-examining certain PK test data that
there was a tendency for the scoring to decline to the right and
downward on the page as the tests proceeded. Consequently an
analysis was done to check up on both of these decline tendencies
in all the PK series that had been recorded in such a way that the
record sheets could be divided into quarters. Then the upper left
and lower right quarters were compared as the ones which were
expected to show the greatest difference in
scoring rates. This
diagonal decline became a mark and measure of PK evidence. In
the first
report by Rhine and Humphrey
11
the quarter distribution
or QD of the eighteen series was given as "one
composite value.
The evidence was highly significant of a reliable trend which could
not conceivably be attributed to any other factor than a mental
one having to do with the direct
influencing of the dice. A later
study was made that was in every respect independently confirma-
tory. It was based upon eight of the eighteen series in which
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 61
A. QD of the page B. QO of the set
I. HIGH-DICE AND LOW-DICE SERIES
0. QD of the set
C.QD of the page
2LTHE SINGLES
Quarter distribution (QD) of hits on the record page and in the set This
gives a further breakdown than is mentioned in the text, showing two main
subdivisions of the PK data. (See Glossary for terms "singles," etc.)
PARAPSYCHOLOGY
smaller units of recording were used, units called half-sets.
30
These were also given the QD analysis and the composite diagonal
decline obtained showed once again an extraordinarily high, order
of statistical
significance. La a subsequent report the inde-
pendent analysis of the same material by Pratt31
exemplified the
fact that the case now has the special advantage that the entire
analytic study is
repeatable by any qualified examiner.
But there is the rather hair-splitting argument that perhaps the
subjects in their PK performance may be exercising precognition
of the way the dice are going to fall by chance, especially since the
procedure in a number of the experimental series allowed the sub-
jects to choose for a given session (or set or other unit) whichever
one of the possible targets he preferred for that occasion.
Perhaps,
the argument ran, the subject (or the experimenter) precognized
the whole series and made some mental appraisal (unconsciously,
of course) as to which target face would give him the highest
scores for a given session or set.
Probably nothing can give the reader a better idea of the ex-
tremes which the demands for acceptable experimental design
reach in
parapsychology than this use of precognition as a coun-
ter-hypothesis to PEL Yet it is
only a little, if
any, less reasonable
than the extremes to which PK has been urged as a
counterhypoth-
esis
bearing on the evidence for
precognition. All these alterna-
tive explanations need to be ruled out in this field of research,
whether or not they may involve a good counter claim. The main
hypothesis under test is itself new and debatable, and counter-
hypotheses need not have much justification in order to demand
full consideration.
At any rate, it is
possible to rule out precognition as a counter-
hypothesis to PK. To do so it is
necessary only to agree upon a
rigid order of target face and to adhere to it
throughout the series
of tests. This was done in more than one investigation.
32' 38
Better
still, as sometimes happened, the subject was allowed to determine
his own target for a given unit by throwing a die. Then, if
pre-
cognition entered into it, it would have to be through the PK in-
fluence on this die.
3*
At least one investigation has been made
with the use of an elaborate design (Latin Square method) of
selecting the target sequence by which is excluded the step-by-
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 63
step choice of target on which the counterhypothesis depends.
35
But the best answer to the precognition counterhypothesis is
given
by the QD analyses already described. It adds something too
that these were made on the data long after the tests were finished.
These give the best evidence of PK, and they show that the hits
were not a selected chance distribution as the precognition coun-
terhypothesis assumes.
In general it can be said that a good case has been made for the
occurrence of PK as an aspect of psL It is the newest of the dis-
tinguishable psi phenomena and as a result much of the research
has been concentrated in the Duke Laboratory, just as it has with
precognition. Among the important independent confirmations
that have, however, been carried out in other centers of research
is that by McConnefl, Snowden, and Powell of the University of
Pittsburgh, in which a completely mechanized operation was in-
volved, including the photographic recording of the fall of the
dice.
80
References
L RHINE, L. E.: Frequency of types of experience in spontaneous
precognition. /. ParapsychoL, 18:93-123, 1954
2. RHINE, J. B., and PRATT, J. G.: A review of the Pearce-Pratt dis-
tance series of ESP tests. /. ParapsychoL, 18:165-177, 1954.
3. PRATT, J. G., and WOODRTJFF, J. L.: Size of stimulus symbols in
extrasensory perception. /. ParapsychoL, 3:121-158, 1939.
4 SOAL, S. G., and GOIDNEY, K. M.: Experiments in precognitive
telepathy. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 47:21-150, 1943.
5. SOAJL, S. G., and BATEMAN, F.: Modern Experiments in Telepathy.
New Haven, Yale, 1954.
6. CABINGTON, W.: Experiments on the paranormal cognition of
drawings. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 46:34-151, 1940. Published
simultaneously in /. ParapsychoL, 4:1-134, 1940.
7. SOAL,S. G.: Fresh light on card guessing some new effects, Proc.
Soc. Psychical Res., 46:152-198, 1940.
8. JEPHSON, I: Evidence for clairvoyance in card-guessing. Proc. Soc.
Psychical Res., 38:223-268, 1929.
9. ESTABROOKS, G. H.: A contribution to experimental telepathy.
Butt. Boston Soc. Psychic Res., Bulletin V, 1927.
64 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
10. BHINE, J, B.: The Reach of the Mind. New York, Sloane, 1947,
p. 170.
1L BHENE, J B., and HUMPHREY, B. M.: The PK effect: Special evi-
dence from hit patterns. L Quarter distributions of the page.
/. Parapsychol, 8:18-60, 1944.
12. SCHMEIDLER, G. K, and MUKPHY, G.: The influence of belief and
disbelief in ESP upon ESP scoring level /. Exper. Psychol,
36:271-276, 1946.
13. VAN BUSSCHBACH, J. G.: An investigation of ESP between teacher
and pupils in American schools. J Parapsychol, 20:71-80, 1956.
14. CABINGTON, W.: Telepathy: An Outline of Its Facts, Theory, and
Implications. London, Methuen, 1945, pp. 91-92.
15. TYBRELL, G. N. M.: The Tyrrell apparatus for testing extrasensory
perception. I Parapsychol, 2:107-118, 193&
16. HUMPHREY, B. M., and PRATT, J. G.: A comparison of five ESP test
procedures, /. Parapsychol, 5:267-292, 1941.
17. RHINE, J. B.: Telepathy and clairvoyance reconsidered J. Para-
psychol, 9:176-193, 1945.
18. RHINE, J. B.: Extrasensory Perception. Boston, Bruce Humphries,
1934
19. McMAHAN, E. A.: An experiment in pure telepathy. /. Parapsy-
chol, 10:224-242, 1946.
20. BBINE, J. B.: Experiments bearing upon the precognition hypoth-
esis, m. Mechanically selected cards. /. Parapsychol, 5:1-57,
194L
21. BBINE, J. B.: Evidence of precognition in the covariation of
salience ratios. /. Parapsychol, 6:111-143, 1942.
22. RHINE, J. B.s and HUMPHREY, B. M.: A confirmatory study of sali-
ence in precognition tests. J. Parapsychol, 6:190-219, 1942.
23. HXJTCHINSON, L.: Variations of time intervals in pre-shuffle card-
calling. J. Parapsychol, 4:249-270, 1940.
24 TYBBELL, G. N. M.: Further experiments in extrasensory percep-
tion. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 44:99-168, 1936.
25. MANGAN, G, L: Evidence of displacement in a precognition test
/. Parapsychol, 19:35-44, 1955.
26. Osis, K: Recognition over time intervals of one to thirty-three
days. /. Parapsychol, 19:82-91, 1955.
27. NIELSEN, W.: An exploratory precognition experiment. /. Parapsy-
chol, 20:33-39, 1956.
28. NIEISEN, W.: Mental states associated with success in precogni-
tion. /. Parapsychol, 20:96-109, 1956.
THE FACTS ABOUT PSI AND ITS TYPES 65
29. RHINE, J. B., and RHINE, L. E.: The psychokinetic effect: I. The
first experiment J. Parapsychol, 7:20-43, 1943.
30. RHINE, J. B., HUMPHREY, B. M., and PRATT, J. G.: The PK effect:
Special evidence from hit patterns. HI. Quarter distributions
of the half-set /. Parapsychol, 9:150-168, 1945.
31. PRATT, J. G.: A reinvestigation of the quarter distribution of the
(PK) page. J. Parapsychol, 8:61-63, 1944.
32. PRATT, J. G., and WOODRUFF, J L.: An exploratory investigation of
PK position effects. J. Parapsychol, 10:197-207, 1946.
33. DALE, L. A.: The psychokinetic effect: The first A.S.P.R. experi-
ment /. Am. Soc. Psychical Res., 40:123-151, 1946.
34. HUMPHREY, B. H.: Simultaneous high and low aim in FK tests.
/. Parapsychol, 11:160-174, 1947.
35. THOULESS,KH.: A report on an experiment on psychokinesis with
dice, and a discussion of psychological factors favouring success.
Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 49:107-130, 1949-1952.
36. McCoNNELL, R. A., SNOWDEN, R. J., and POWELL, K. F.: Wishing
with dice. J. Exper. Psychol, 50:269-275, 1955.
Additional Reading
A digest and discussion of some comments on: Telepathy and Clair-
voyance Reconsidered. /. Parapsychol, 10:36-50, 1946.
BIRGE, W. R.: A new method and an experiment in pure telepathy.
7. Parapsychol, 12:273-288, 1948.
MUNDLE, C. W. K.: The experimental evidence for PK and precogni-
tion. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res.9 49:61-78, 1949-52.
MUBPHY, G.: Needed: Instruments for differentiating between telep-
athy and clairvoyance. /. Am. Soc. Psych. Res., 42:47-49, 1948.
NASH,C.B.: Psychokinesis reconsidered. /. Amen Soc. Psychical Res.,
45:62-68, 1951.
RHINE, J. B.: Precognition reconsidered. J. Parapsychol, 9:264r-277,
1945.
RHINE, J. B.: The psychokinetic effect: A review. J. Parapsychol,
10:5-20, 1946.
SCHMEIDLER, G.: Position effects as psychological phenomena. /.
Parapsychol, 8: 110-123, 1944.
Chapter 4
Psi and the Physical World
L First the facts
OR THE last two decades it lias been possible to define the field
of parapsychology in a clear-cut fashion as one that deals with
phenomena not explainable by physical principles. There is a
great part of mental life that may or may not be nonphysical, but
parapsychology at the present stage is not concerned with effects
for which the interpretation is
ambiguous. In order to be con-
sidered as parapsychological the phenomena must be demonstra-
bly nonphysicaL That is, they must occur under conditions that
clearly eliminate the types of operation known as physical. In
their spontaneous occurrence the phenomena of parapsychology
appear to defy physical explanation and when examined experi-
mentally they can be proved to be beyond the reach of physical
explanation. (We need hardly add that we are using terms and
concepts in their current meanings; any other would be too con-
jectural for scientific use. )
It is a matter of history that the founding of this branch of sci-
ence derived its initiative from the interest many scholars of the
nineteenth century felt in discovering whether all nature was, as
was assumed in the growing philosophy of materialism, a purely
physical system. Are there mental processes that are not a part
of the world of physics? In their search for an answer to this
question the founders of parapsychology were looking for possible
nonphysical phenomena in nature that might be scientifically ob-
served and described.
A. Distance and ESP
To these early explorers reports of spontaneous thought-trans-
ference occurring between individuals separated by great dis-
66
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 67
tances made the strongest appeal of all the current psychic claims.
The apparent meeting of mind with mind in spite of intervening
physical barriers would, if it could be reliably established as a
natural phenomenon, argue strongly against a wholly physicalistic
interpretation of human personality. The first
step undertaken,
that of collecting accounts of such spontaneous happenings
(which came to be called telepathy) not only deepened the
impression among scholars that a valid principle was operating
in such cases; it
strengthened the suggestion that this operation
was completely independent of any known physical condition. It
seemed to make no difference whether the percipient and the
agent were separated by short distances or by very long ones, so
far as either the frequency or the vividness of the experiences was
concerned
When, after some decades of introductory inquiries, better con-
trolled and more systematic investigations were undertaken, the
distances that were introduced, often incidentally, did not seem
to affect the results in any regular way. In some experiments
there were higher rates of success at the shorter and in others at
the longer distances.
When the Pearce-Pratt series of ESP tests introduced a com-
parison of distances in the Duke experiments, the scoring rate for
the long distance tests (involving distances of 100 and of 250
yards) was about 30 per cent when chance expectancy was 20 per
cent.
1
Earlier work by the same subject (with the cards within
arm's lengtih) had averaged approximately 32 per cent in com-
parably large series of runs. In the Pearce-Pratt series at 100 yards
his scoring rose for the first
experiment consisting of 300 trials to
an average of 40 per cent, but a careful study indicates that there
were important psychological differences in the timing and the
preparation for this series that gave it
precedence over the
earlier short-distance work. When later on at a distance of 250
yards he scored only 27 per cent, it was very evident in the
scoring irregularities
that psychological factors were again in-
fluencing the rate of success.
The Pearce-Pratt series was the first definite experimental con-
firmation of the general impression given by spontaneous experi-
ences that psi operates without showing any recognizable rela-
88 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
tionship to distance. The more complex theoretical question as
to whether there is any relationship, direct or otherwise, between
psi and space, is a different matter which must be left for a more
advanced stage of psi research.
A number of exploratory investigations as well as a few
experiments of the more conclusive type (represented by the
Pearce-Pratt series) continued to deal with comparisons of dis-
tances in ESP tests. We will omit a series carried out by Riess
2
which reports the most successful scoring rate on record (over
72 per cent) because there was no short distance test made to
compare with the 400 yards over which the experiment was con-
ducted* Here and there an exceptional subject was willing to per-
form at a long distance, as in the Turner-Ownbey GESP series
at Duke/ in which approximately 40 per cent success was obtained
in 200 trials at 250 miles as compared to a 31 per cent success at
short distance. Large group tests were conducted in which sub-
jects located over a wide geographical area attempted to identify
cards or other target material centrally located. Among these
was a series by Whately Carington in England
4
and one under the
direction of R. W. George at TarMo College, Missouri.5
The
evidence of ESP from these series shows no recognizable direct
relation between results and distance. Scoring success does vary
widely, but it is
evidently determined by other conditions, most
probably psychological Regardless of the distance involved, the
better oriented subjects stand out; for instance, groups located in
some active research center have had more success than newly-
formed groups.
The longest distance over which systematic experiments have
been conducted was that between Zagreb, Yugoslavia, and Dur-
ham, North Carolina.6
For a part of this
experiment a group of
ten subjects at the Parapsychology Laboratory worked on target
cards set up by Dr. Karlo Marchesi at
Zagreb, but for the major
part of the series Dr. Marchesi attempted to identify the order of
cards set up at the Duke Laboratory. This experiment was
handled as a two-experimenter operation with full precautions.
The occurrence of marginally significant results at this
very long
distance was of value in the appraisal of distance as a hypotheti-
cal factor. While testing himself, prior to the long distance ex-
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 69
periments,
Dr. Marches! scored at a much higher rate th^n in the
long distance test In later tests
performed in the Duke Labora-
tory he was unable to score appreciably above chance average.
7
The factors most likely to be responsible for these differences are
the topic of the succeeding chapter, the psychology of psi (Just
as the book is
going to press a report has been published on a short
but statistically significant series between Durham and Mufulira,
Northern Rhodesia.
8
)
No nicer comparison of distance has been made than that of
Soal and Bateman9
in England, in which their subject, Mrs.
Stewart, participated during a visit to Brussels. Thus they were
able to continue at a distance of approximately 200 miles experi-
ments similar to those that previously had been conducted with
Mrs. Stewart in the room adjoining that of the sender. The fact
that the scoring rate (approximately 28 per cent) continued at
the same level regardless of the distance confirmed all the pre-
viously accumulated evidence that psi is not directly rekted to the
distance separating the subject from the target
Be ESP and Time
As the preceding chapter explained, the fact that psi seemed
to show no relation to space affords a basis for expecting it not
to be related to time either. If it were nonphysical in its
spatial
relation, it should be nontemporal too. The argument was fully
in line with the well-known fact that spontaneous psi occurrences
have always seemed to transcend time limits as freely as they have
crossed the boundaries of space.
The argument, of course, works both ways. No better experi-
ment could have been found to put the hypothesis of the non-
physical character of psi to test than one designed to see whether
the ability could be used to respond to events beyond the present.
The evidence for precognition has been outlined in the preced-
ing chapter. Taking into account the large background of evi-
dence of ESP now on record, along with the indications of the
independence of ESP from spatial limitations, we may consider
the case for precognition as reasonably conclusive. The investi-
gations will, of course, continue and if the case is sound the future
will bring further confirmation. Science achieves no absolute
70 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
certainties; but the degree of probability
now applying to the
case for precognition
is on a par with many a major working
concept in the various sciences. The arresting aspect of pre-
cognition, however, would seem to be not the question of the
strength of die experimental evidence but rather the difficulty of
finding an acceptable rationale for so revolutionary a principle.
But while nothing would appear to be so crucially definitive on
the question of whether psi processes
are really nonphysical as
would the case for precognition,
it is reassuring also to remember
all the other evidence, too. If precognition had not lent itself to
investigation and we had no data on it, there would still be a good
case for the nonphysical character of psi phenomena.
C Other Evidence of Nonphysicality
Perhaps the most rationally reassuring of all the types of evi-
dence of the nonphysical nature of psi is the range of target
material on which it is
capable of functioning; that is, the range
of stimuli or starting points with which it can deal ( and for which
some physical theory of intermediation would have to be pro-
vided) . Consider, for example, the range of objects and objective
conditions of target object in clairvoyance experiments and spon-
taneous experiences. Most commonly these are cards printed with
ink, but it
apparently does not matter at which angle the cards
are located with respect to the subject nor how close together
they are with other cards of the pack; that is, a solid pack may
serve as the target with the cards all
lying together in a box.
Obviously, too, there is no illumination in such a case so that
the familiar visual image could not be obtained from the card, and
any physical or chemical difference in the card surface could not
be detected by the subject under the test conditions. At the
other extreme, in the pure telepathy experiments the mere thought
of the card symbol by the agent is sufficient to serve as the target.
And in addition, if one considers the precognition tests, the posi-
tion of the card at a certain place in die pack at a certain future
time will serve as the target.
The complexity of the target from a physical point of view is
even greater when we consider that ESP is
necessary in PK experi-
ments too. If die falling dice are to be influenced so that the
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 71
target face or combination is to be favored in the results, it is
necessary to suppose that some other perception than that of the
senses must direct this influence exerted upon them. In most
experiments the dice fall too rapidly for visual perception to
follow. In other experiments the subject does not actually see the
dice at the time of release. Sometimes the dice are thrown in
considerable numbers at one time so that the eye cannot follow the
J
Dice used for comparison of size, density, and shape of objects in PK tests,
and cup used for hand-throwing.
complete movements with sufficient clarity to allow the intelli-
gent direction of a causal influence through PK. Accordingly, we
must suppose an extrasensory aspect to the PK operation one that
operates too fast for sensorimotor reaction time. ESP itself could
only function in such a case by operating on something else than
a physical type of causality. There would have to be intelligent
purpose as an essential part of the PK influence.
PK offers other difficulties of interpretation in terms of physical
72 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
principles. Exploratory efforts have been made to test the effect
of distance on PK Among these the work of Nash and Richards10
stands out as having the best design. It yielded results which show
that PK could function over a distance of 25 yards without
apparent interference. Similarly, and likewise on the exploratory
level of testing, it has been found repeatedly in the Duke experi-
ments that such physical conditions as are represented in the
number of dice released at a single throw, the size and density of
the dice, the sharpness of corners, do not show any dependable
relation to scoring results; that is, there does not seem to be any
limiting physical effect from the differences mentioned. It is well
to emphasize the tentative nature of these explorations until they
have been more widely verified or until the investigation has
been carried out on an even more crucial level. The results thus
far obtained, however, are within the scope of what would have
been expected from the general evidence of psi in relation to
physics. But the question of the outer bounds of physical limita-
tions in PK ought now to be investigated on a more exhaustive
scale.
For that matter more investigation on the exploratory level,
too, is needed. If the operation of PK should have no physical
limitation, parapsychology would prove to be a more funda-
mentally revolutionary science than has yet been anticipated even
by its own representatives. But there may be such limits; and
if so, they should be discoverable. There may be, for that matter,
limits to the extent of time over which precognition can func-
tion or even limitations to the space ESP can encompass. Now,
however, our purpose is to present the known facts; and thus far
no limits have been reached. That does not imply there are
none; rather, the rational inclination within our present frame-
work of thought is to expect that some limitations will
eventually
be discovered.
II. And Then the Implications
A. Psychophysical Distinctions
Parapsychologists are sometimes called dualists, meaning, of
course, that they recognize two kinds of
reality, mental and physir
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 73
cal. In most scientific circles of today this
philosophical position
is an unpopular one. But the philosophical term dualism does
not apply to a conclusion reached as a result of experimental sci-
ence. Many areas of science involve some line of differentiation
(
for example, that between wave phenomena and particle data in
modem physics), but the distinction between two aspects of a
phenomenon does not constitute a dualism. The question of
whether or not the operation of psi shows any reliable relation to
known physical law is not a matter of interpretation. It has been
brought into experimental focus and is now only a question of the
facts themselves. For those who are students of science to the
extent of taking their facts seriously and adjusting their phi-
losophy to them, no doubt remains that a certain relative duality
of aspects of nature is involved. A valid distinction has been
drawn, a limited division of nature has, on the descriptive level,
been discovered and verified, but these facts do not justify any
theory of absolute dualism. Parapsychology stops with the facts
it has established.
The establishment of the nonphysical nature of psi as a simple
scientific fact does, however, make a profound difference indeed to
other areas of inquiry and application for example, to the theory
of the organism, the basic nature of personality, and the largei
concept of man's place in the natural order. Moreover, such a
distinction between psi and physics has far-reaching importance
beyond the borders of science, wherever the nature of man is an
important consideration. Within the more fundamental confines
of science itself the two aspects of reality now distinguished
appear for the present at least to constitute areas whose inter-
relations themselves present new territory for the long future to
explore. This longer view brings us, even in parapsychology, to
a novel emphasis in appearance almost a reversal an emphasis
indicated in the next title, on the integration of psi with the
physical order of the universe.
B. Psychophysical Interaction and the Unity of Nature
The scientist will in due time be just as interested as the phi-
losopher in the question of how these different areas of reality can
interact. What do these areas have in common that can allow
74 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the exchange between them? An energy exchange has to be
supposed, one that in ESP can convey information and in the PK
tests do work. For the time being let it be called psychical or
mental energy, leaving for a later stage of research an account of
its
peculiar properties. Most of the energies now recognized were
at one stage as mysterious as this one. But although the concept
of a mental energy is a comparatively old one, it is
only through
parapsychology that it has received scientific attention and been
brought under actual experimental attack.
To make sense in the present situation, this mental energy would
have to be one that does not stimulate the sense organs. There are
already known energies in the same category. Second, such an
imperceptible energy would have to be convertible to other energy
states which would be perceptible to the senses. There are many
known energies that are recognizable only through such transla-
tion or conversion. These are facts of familiar elementary physics.
The only unique feature of this psychical energy lies in the fact
that it functions without any restrictive relation (yet known) to
space-time-mass criteria. But that is
only to say again that such
energy is not physical, since the space-time-mass criteria are the
defining concepts of that field.
Impossible? No, the shrewd observer out on the frontier of
physical knowledge would be the last to reject the idea of a
natural mental energy. At any rate, there is now a large body of
experimental fact that requires the inference of an effective prin-
ciple which does not display space-time-mass properties and does
not affect the sense organs. The formulation of the hypothesis of
a specific energy is
only a modest beginning. If the hypothesis is
correct, there should be ways of verifying its
validity.
Ideally, the attack upon the problem of
psychophysical causa-
tion presented by psi phenomena should be considered as much an
invitation and challenge to
physical scientists
(including physi-
ologists) as it is to the
parapsychologists. In this
subject-object
relation the object obviously means something plays some part.
The solution of the problem should lead into a causative relation
extending beyond the range of
knowledge of physics todav. It is
too early yet to say whether the field of physics will move its fron-
tiers and adjust its
concepts more quickly than that of
psychology
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 75
has; but for one, as for the other, it should be only a matter of
recognizing the facts and having time to adjust to them. The case
for psi is
logically an experimental refutation of the mechanistic
philosophy of nature that has become well nigh universal today in
all the sciences. It exerts much the same influence on the edu-
cated mind, in preventing it from observing and considering any-
thing that challenges mechanism, as in medieval times the super-
naturalistic philosophy of that day did upon the new observations
in nature that challenged its
supremacy, The tendency of an
existing belief to control thought is manifest not merely in the
religions but in the sciences as well
The reason for dwelling on this implication of the nonphysicality
of psi is that it is a part of the scientific research itself to become
aware of and deal effectively with the resistances that have to be
overcome in the progressive acceptance of research findings. The
methods used in the laboratory to produce results may well be
vain unless methods are also developed by which to meet and
change the philosophical attitude that prevents acceptance of the
facts, for it condemns experimental effort to futility or at least to
long and indefinite periods of being ignored.
.
The parapsycholo-
gist
has to recognize that along with his difficulties in establishing
his findings in the laboratory goes the more formidable one await-
ing him outside the laboratory door; that of establishing his con-
clusions in a way effective enough to overcome the ready-made
and determined rejection of his case regardless of the scientific
quality of his work. For those who have the inclination to look,
an extensive literature of controversy over the findings of para-
psychology exists. It will enlighten the interested reader as to the
length to which even today resistance to revolutionary discovery
can go and scientific progress be impeded.
3' 1142
But once the distinction of psi as a nonphysical function is clear
to modern science, the fact will automatically open a fresh new
frontier of exploration into the deeper unifying connection be-
tween psi and physics. Even as we distinguish them, we concede
that logically there has to be a basic underlying integration. The
very interaction that makes the demonstration of psi possible
shows at the same time that in this demonstration there must be
a fundamental unifying principle!
The bridge of common proper-
76 PAHAPSYCHOLOGY
ties and interacting processes we shall one day find will be the
fruits of tomorrow's researches, when the controversies of today
over theories of man's extraphysical nature are stilled. A fuller
view of the place of man in nature with respect to the physical
world is the higher goal toward which parapsychology is
leading.
It will be a constructive sequel to the distinctions of the present
stage.
References
L BHINE, J. B^ and PRATT, J. G.: Review of the Pearce-Pratt distance
series of ESP tests. /. Parapsychol, 18:165-177, 1954.
2. Buss, B. F.: Further data from a case of high scores in card-
guessing. J. Parapsychol, 3:79-84 1939.
3. Emus, J. B., PBATT, J. G., STOABT, C. E^ SMTIH, B. M., and GBEEN-
wooi*, J. A.: Extrasensory Perception After Sixty Years. New
York, Holt, 1940, pp. 416-417.
4 CABINGTON, W.: Experiments on the paranormal cognition of draw-
ings. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 46:34-151, 1940.
5* BHINK, J. B.: The effect of distance in ESP tests. /. Parapsychol,
1:172-184 1937.
8. MCMAHAN, E. A, and BHINE; J. B.: A second Zagreb-Durham ESP
/. Parapsychol, 11:244-253, 1947.
7. MCMAHAN, E. A^ and BAIES, E. K., JB.: Beport of further Marches!
experiments. /. Parapsychol9 18:82-92, 1954
8. OsiSy K.; ESP over a distance of seventy-five hundred miles. J.
Parapsychol, 20:229-232, 1958,
9. SOAX* S. G., and BATEMAN, F.: Modern Experiments in Telepathy.
New Haven, Yale, 1954, pp. 303-308.
10. NASH, C B^ and BDCHABBS, A.: Comparison of two distances in P3C
tests. I Parapsychol, 11:269-282, 1947.
1L POKE, D. HL, and PBATT, J. G.: The ESP controversy. /. Parapsy-
chdL, 6:174-189, 1942.
12. The COTtroversy in Science ova: ESP. /. Parapsychol, 19:236-271,
1955.
Additional Reading
BROAD, C. D.: The rdevance of psychical research to philosophy, in
Rettgion, Philosophy and Psychical Research. New York, Harcour^
1953, pp. 7-28.
PSI AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 77
C. T. K.: Quantum physics and parapsychology. J. Parapsy-
chol, 20:166-183, 1956.
EDTTOBXAL: Parapsychology and dualism. J. ParapsychoL, 9:225-228,
1945.
HOFFMAN, B. : ESP and the inverse square law. J. Parapsychol., 4:149-
152, 1940.
JOBDAN, P.: Reflections on parapsychology, psychoanalysis, and atomic
physics. /. Parapsychol, 15:278-281, 195L
McCoNNELL, R. A.: Physical or nonphysical? J. Parapsychol, 11:111-
117, 1947.
MtJBFBnr, G.: Psychical research and the mind-body relation. J. Am.
Soc. Psychical Res., 40:189-207, 1946.
RHINE, J. B.: The science of nonphysical nature. J. Philosophy,
51:801-810, 1954.
RUSH, J. EL: Some considerations as to a physical basis of ESP. J.
Parapsgchol, 7:44-49, 1943.
WAIJCEB, R: Parapsychology and dualism. Sclent* Month., 79:1-9,
1954
WASSERMAN, G. D. : An outline of a field theory of organismic form and
behavior, in Ciba Foundation Symposium on Extrasensory Percep~
Hon. Boston, Little, 1956, pp. 53-72.
Chapters
The Psychology ofPsi
, HE SCIENCE that deals with persons as distinct from impersonal
substances, forces, or bodies is called psychology just as the study
of living organisms as distinguished from the inanimate is called
biology* The characteristic that most distinguishes personal
agency or behavior from an impersonal operation has not yet been
successfully defined in terms of psychology. Consequently, it is
still not dear in more than superficial tenns just how the field of
psychology is to be marked off from the rest of the studies of na-
ture. Under the influence of the trend in science towards a
mechanistic philosophy the natural effort has been to try to make
psychology in effect a branch of physics. However, the discover-
ies
concerning psi, in
showing that persons are capable of certain
noaphysical functions, have provided psychology with at least one
fundamental distinction between a person and an impersonal
thing. How far this
distinguishing character extends throughout
the entire structure of the personality is a matter for further study,
but even at a minimal valuation it has won for
psychology a scien-
tific daim to its own distinct area of reality. Unlike all the other
branches of science, it has been experimentally proved to have
operations that do not yield to physical explanation.
We should expect, in view of the significance of psi for a theory
of man's nature, that its
position would become a more central
one in general psychology as recognition of the reality of psi
extends within that profession. The shift may come about slowly,
but if it should recpiire a long time, that would in itself
give some
measure of how profound an alteration in current thought was in-
volved At all events, when the eventual stage of complete
recognition of psi is reached it can hardly fail to bring about a
major revolution in the larger field, so fundamental is the new
concept of man introduced.
78
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 79
The psychological study of psi has developed only compara-
tively recently. Naturally more attention was initially given to
the establishment of the occurrence of psi and to the differentia-
tion of the types of psi phenomena than to studying the conditions
that might affect them. Even so, a considerable accumulation of
psychological facts has been made, one that is
already too great
for review in a single chapter. Accordingly, we shall be able to
take up only the main topics in the survey that follows the
questions of how normal psi is, what role it
plays in the person-
ality,
and what conditions affect its demonstration.
I. Psi is Normal
Some of the early nineteenth century observers who gave atten-
tion to psi phenomena associated them with mental abnormality.
The phenomena first came under professional study in connection
with hypnotism or its forerunner, mesmerism. Thus psychiatry
in its
beginnings was linked with the odd occurrences that have
come to be known as ESP.1
Just as hypnosis was for a time
erroneously attributed to the neurotic condition known as hysteria,
so capacities such as clairvoyance and thought-transference were
attributed to the mesmeric or hypnotic state as artificial products
induced in minds that were something less than normal and
healthy.
2
A. Psi Is Not Abnormal
Hypnosis became in time more or less clearly distingished
from its
early association with the abnormal, and ESP phenomena,
too, came to be recognized apart from the hypnotic state. How-
ever, there still remained the question whether it is
perfectly
healthy or normal to have spontaneous psi experiences or to be
able to demonstrate psi under experimental conditions. But the
answer has developed fairly clearly in recent years that psi is a
normal process and is no more closely related to psychopathology
than is
any other mental function.
This answer is based first on the large body of evidence now
available as the result of the study of spontaneous case material
The case analyses have revealed no indication of any tie-up be-
80 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
tween mental illness and proneness to psi experience.
If any such
relationship existed the explorer working with spontaneous cases
of pri would have been quick to pick it
up in his search for clues
to principles. Furthermore, the mental hospital has not turned
out to be the place to go in search of outstanding psi performers.
Although many psychiatrists
themselves have been alert to the
occurrence of apparent psi experiences
in their patients, they have
n0t discovered among their patients any outstanding performers
or even noted any special proneness to spontaneous parapsychical
experiences*
The tendency of some sick minds to fabricate a belief that they
are being controlled and persecuted by means of telepathy or
some related ability exercised by supposed enemies comes under
the heading of delusion. It has no bearing on the relation of psi
to psychopathology. Not only have these beliefs in telepathic
persecution not been found to have any basis; in the ESP tests
given them the individuals concerned have not in any case so far
shown outstanding telepathic ability.
Fortunately the experimental methods have been sufficiently
adaptable (though far from perfectly so) to the clinical situation
in the hospital to permit a fair amount of exploratory work to be
carried out on different classifications of the mentally ill
3*4
While
some of these investigations have yielded extrachance results, the
results have not been outstanding as compared to the general pop-
ulation* It is
quite conceivable that more striking results would
b obtained from patients in mental hospitals if a psi test better
suited to the bedside situation could be developed. But thus far
no outstanding performers have been found in the mental hos-
pitals; and the search has been rather extensive. There is no
reason, then, to thmk that mental illness favors either the spon-
taneous or the experimental manifestation of psi
B* Psi Test Performance and General Adjustment
A considerable amount of exploratory psi testing has been done
on groups of subjects from the normal population, especially with
groups of college students, in connection with accompanying esti-
mates of adjustment, mental health, or neurotic tendency. The
trend in the comparisons made has rather generally associated
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 81
higher psi-test scoring with better adjustment
5*
7
So far as a
survey of this type of evidence goes it would indicate that the
better the mental health of a subject the more likely he is to
contribute to positive scoring in ESP tests. So we may say
again that the research results, as far as they go, have indicated
no relation between parapsychology and psychopathology. The
parapsychical is not likely to be psychopathologicaL
C. Psi and Intelligence
It is worth a brief paragraph to summarize the researches that
have been done to see whether psi is linked with intelligence.
The answer seems to be that it is neither more nor less likely to
be manifested by persons whose intelligence is above par than by
those below. The basis for these studies is extensive enough to
permit such a general statement, even though the work has all
been done on the exploratory level. The indications are that
individuals on the level of the feeble-minded can perform suc-
cessfully in ESP tests when die tests are adapted to their needs,
but they do not yield outstanding results.
8
There is no evidence
that the proper place to search for high performance is in the
institutions for the feeble minded. There is, on die other hand,
some experimental evidence enough to warrant further inquiry
diat intelligence differences at die college level show slight posi-
tive correlation with ESP test scores.
9
This apparent linkage may
be due to better adaptability to the test situation on the part of
die more intelligent. There is no adequate ground as yet to think
that psi varies with intelligence as such.
D. Is Psi Normal Equipment for Man?
There is
space for considering one more of the numerous mean-
ings of the word "normal/* We have already considered normality
from the point of view of mental health and intelligence* Let us
now ask whedier psi is a natural function of personality whether
it is
part of the normal equipment of the individual, so that a lack
of it would be abnormal Obviously a precise answer to diis ques-
tion would call for die investigation of too large a sample of the
human species for die present stage of parapsychology. Any
answer given now must be an inference from a comparatively
82 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
small section of the whole. It will liave to be from a very spotty
selection of data, too, because no systematic study of the distri-
bution of psi capacity over the human race as a whole has ever
been undertaken. Such a survey based on proper sampling may
be long in coming. Any judgment made now will have to depend
upon only incidental samplings and the results taken for what they
are worth.
As usual, a good first impression on this question can be ob-
tained from the spontaneous case material. We find much the
same type of spontaneous experience widely scattered, not only
bade through history to ancient times, but over widely distinct
ethnic groups as well. The Australian aborigines have spon-
taneous psi experiences quite similar to those of the American
population and the Western European- They are very similar to
the scattered examples reported from the peoples of modern China
or India or Japan, and those picked up from the American Indian
and the American Negro resemble in essential outlines those of
the white Americans. If the occurrence of these spontaneous psi
experiences is an indication, as it
may properly be considered to
be in view of the laboratory verification of the capacity, then it is
fair to suggest that the psi function is widely enough distributed
to be considered a normal capacity of the species.
The experimental studies, too, have confirmed psi anility in
different ethnic, national, and sub-racial groupings, albeit only in
a vary exploratory way. Among those who have been tested and
found to exhibit significant evidence of psi capacity, at least in
introductory .tests, are Australian aborigines, American Indians,
American Negroes, Japanese, Indians, Spanish Americans, West-
ern Europeans, and Americans.
Moreover, the study of various groups within a given culture
has left the impression that psi rapacity is a general one with
no particular type or grouping of people showing no ability and
with none being exceptionally gifted. Various kinds of special
groups within the American or European culture have been
tested for ESP and they gave in most instances at least marginally
positive results; for example, there have been groups of mental
patients in the hospitals and of feeble-minded children in schools
for the subnormal Tests have been made with a wide range of
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 83
people of different ages and, of course, both sexes. Groups of
blind children have yielded results that compared with those of
seeing children of the same age, and a few at least of the practi-
tioners of the occult, such as mediums, astrologers, palmists, yogis,
and dowsers, have been tried. While no group of any size has
been found completely devoid of capacity to demonstrate ESP,
at the same time no subdivision of the human species has been
found to stand out in any really distinctive way as either possess-
ing superior psi powers or superior control over them.
ESP test for the blind. The subject is trying to match sealed ESP cards to
key cards with raised symbols.
Furthermore, among all the many attempts made in various
cultures down through the ages to develop psi practices of one
kind or another none has ever succeeded sufficiently to lead to
any widespread practical use today. This indicates that as yet
no class or group has been able to acquire a practical mastery over
the ability either by reason of an exceptional inherited gift or
through special cultivation of the normal endowment. The fact
then that the ability is present in man is matched by the equally
obvious fact that it can be expressed only to a limited degree.
84 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
But at the same time that psi is limited in the extent of its exercise
in the individual, no evidence has thus far been found of any
limitation within the species.
The capacity is, therefore, a part of
the normal equipment of the species.
E. Psi in Animals
The fact that psi was found to have so wide a distribution within
the human species naturally raised the question as to where it
originated in the evolutionary scheme. There was more to en-
courage this question, however, than the wide distribution of ESP
capacity over the human race. For instance, a great many ex-
amples of unexplainable animal behavior were found that clearly
suggested the possibility
of an ESP function10
Suggestions to
that effect have even been made by an occasional zoologist or nat-
uralist confronted with this
puzzling type of behavior. Among the
more familiar animal feats that still stand unexplained in the text-
books of biology are remarkable instances of long migratory travel
of certain species in the course of their annual movements from
one part of the earth to another. It is not known as yet how cer-
tain species of birds are guided for hundreds and even thousands
of miles over unbroken water i.e., without landmarks. Similarly,
marine animals cross the ocean or travel in some instances for
hundreds of miles and in others even thousands in their migra-
tions. In many species the mode of navigation in this long-
distance orientation is
entirely unknown. This does not, of course,
mean that it is done by ESP; but it does mean that there is a possi-
bility for the ESP hypothesis; in fact no other hypothesis has been
presented yet that, as with ESP, has already been established as
a genuine occurrence in nature.
More convincing to many students of these matters are the
performances of domesticated animals in finding their way home
over long distances, sometimes after having been taken away in
closed vehicles by an indirect routine. Examples of animals travel-
ing many hundreds of miles are reported and such reports involve
many different species. Even more baffling still are die instances,
fewer in number but numerous enough to be still
impressive, in
which a pet animal dog, cat, or bird left behind when its human
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 85
companions departed for a new location, escaped kter and fol-
lowed them, arriving after some weeks or months at the new
destination, sometimes hundreds of miles away and where it had
never been before. These and other instances have opened up
a new area of interest the question of psi in animals.
Experimental work has been begun which has already produced
evidence of good exploratory character that at least one horse,
11
a few dogs,
12
and a number of cats have shown behavior con-
sistent only with the psi hypothesis.
13* 14
The two experimental
researches with cats by Osis and associates at Duke approach
the conclusive level.
We can tentatively say, then, that not only is
psi normal to the
extent that it is
very probably a natural function of the human
individual regardless of health or intelligence or other classifica-
tion, but that it is
probably normal also to a great deal more of
the animal world than our own species, although to just how
much of it is not at this stage known.
II. The Place of Psi in Personality
A. How Psi Effects Are Manifested
Psi is a means of interaction between a person and his universe,
a method of subject-object interaction. As already stated, its
functioning parallels that of the sensorimotor system on which
depends our familiar subject-object relations, the difference being
that in the psi function the essential operation is known to be
nonphysical. This is true in spite of the fact that in order to be
objectively manifested psi must be converted into an observable
physical effect. In its
psychokinetic action it can be registered
only as an influence upon a physical system. Similarly, on the
cognitive side, in extrasensory perception the information ac-
quired must be converted into the conscious experience of the
individual, either as an hallucination, a dream, or an intuitive way
of knowing about an objective situation, or as some indirectly
grasped expression or manifestation conveying the message (e.g.,
motor automatisms, compulsions, etc. ) .
Furthermore, there are no known specific receptors for ESP
impressions, and no known motor organs or functions directly
86 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
involved in PK, Whatever psi represents, no differentiation
within the organism has been discovered such as has evolved in
the form of the sensorimotor system. Psi appears to be more ele-
mental, more primitive at any rate more unspecialized.
B. No Organic Localization Known
Trying as we are in present research in parapsychology to bring
psi processes into their place in natural science, it should be
remembered that this natural science lies within a framework
given us by the senses themselves. That means we are attempting
to describe psi functions in the terms of and in connection with
a universe that itself has been pictured only in sensorially descrip-
tive concepts. This naturally tends to represent the phenomena
of psi in terms of contrasts rather than by positive characteristics.
But at this stage clear differentiation is of primary importance.
We must, accordingly, begin with the fact that psi is not only non-
physical; it does not have as yet any discovered organic (e.g.,
cerebral) localization, and it is not directly observable. It is
encountered only in the form of a converted effect.
C But Psi Is Voluntary
On the positive side, however, is the unmistakable character-
istic that psi is, within limits, subject to the volitional or purposive
control of the individual. The subject gives a degree of specific
conscious orientation to the function. Otherwise to carry out the
types of test in use would be impossible, for in these a given target
at a specified time and place is
usually in conscious focus. Even
the spontaneous cases themselves, though experienced by the
individual without conscious effort (otherwise they would not be
spontaneous) are still
recognizedly purposive in
quality. The
urges and interests of the individual are, as a rule, obviouslv
deeply involved. In the test situation the persons participating
can cany out the instructions given them of
attempting to
identify a given card in a given location and even at a specified
time. This dirigibility of psi is
extremely important in
identifying
it as a normal function of the personality. In spite of the seem-
ingly profound difference between psi and the sensorimotor func-
tions, this one feature of
being to a certain extent a voluntarv
j
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 8T
function would alone serve to tie in psi capacity firmly as a basic
aspect of personality.
D. It Is Unconscious
Let us turn back now to another characteristic, perhaps the
principal distinction of psi in addition to its
extraphysical nature.
The long-unsuspected fact is that the essential psi function is an
unconscious one. It is now recognized that while psi phenomena
are known to occur for the most part only with conscious indi-
viduals as subjects (including dreaming, trance, etc. as states of
restricted consciousness), the basic process itself is unconscious.
Unlike sensory perception, in ESP the individual in his conscious
recognition of the phenomena gets only a converted aftereffect or
secondary result. In the successful test demonstration, the fact
that the function has operated seems to elude his conscious focus.
Among spontaneous cases a wide variety of types of effects
resulting from ESFs operation has been reported. As L. E.
Rhine15
has classified these types she finds them largely assignable
to four main categories: First, there are intuitive experiences in
which the subject just knows in an unaccountable way of some
event he could not have perceived sensoriafly or known from
memory, reasoning, or lucky guess. Second, he may experience
a veridical or meaningful hallucination; that is, the truth conveyed
to him is
projected in such a way that he sees, hears, smells, or
"feels" the essential message, much as if the actual occurrence
were present to his senses. Third, he may, in some symbolic way,
dramatize the message in a dream (or daydream) experience so
that he has to interpret it to get at the meaning conveyed. Fourth,
he may dream (or daydream) the scene itself in all literal detail,
experiencing a pictorial realization of a meaningful event.
All four of these mechanisms are only ways of translating the
underlying psi function into meaningful information. The aware-
ness of psi itself remains unconscious, and therefore obscure, even
though there is often in the subject's consciousness a definite con-
viction or sense of the importance, the reality, or the compelling
urgency 1sf the meaning of the experience. This feeling of con-
viction, too, appears to be a secondary or translated effect. It is
a judgment that derives from the subject's interpretation of the
SB PARAPSYCHOLOGY
experience; it is converted to consciousness as an aftereffect; the
determining function still remains hidden*
The same is borne out, though less vividly^ of course, in the
experimental studies themselves.
18
Even the subjects who have
succeeded most consistently and strikingly could not reliably tell
the experimenter how they were able to succeed so well, though
sometimes explanations were offered. Nor were they able to tell
reliably when they were most successful. Reports of introspective
observation which the subject himself takes seriously have yielded
nothing useful and convincing to the experimenter. In several
experiments subjects have attempted to indicate which of their
ESP calls are correct, but litde or no indication has been found
that they can recognize the difference between the use of psi and
mere guessing. Even if future work along these lines should dis-
cover a way by which subjects would be able to make the dis-
tinction, it would not necessarily show that psi had become con-
scious; the possibility would remain that the distinction was made
by means of ESP or by the identification of some secondary effect
attending the psi operation.
The fact that psi functions in an unconscious way ties in
interestingly enough with the fact that it is
nonphysical and that
it may well have originated far back in the evolution of the living
world. All this suggests that consciousness itself is a derivation of
the evolution of sensory experience through the interaction of
the individual with the specialized physical stimuli of the environ-
ment Moreover, the more elementary and possibly primordial
psi function which has to manifest itself
through secondary
sensory-physical operations may antedate these sensory functions
and thus may constitute a more fundamental aspect of the
organism than do consciousness and sensory experiences. These
are at this
stage tentative lines of thought suggested by the facts.
E* Unusual Effects of the Unconsciousness of Psi
The fact that psi is unconscious will
explain many odd things
about it Some of these curious effects are among the most inter-
esting features in the data of
parapsychology. Some of them,
too, have added a great deal to the proof value of the evidence!
Some have almost come to be considered as earmarks of psi, so
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 89
that the investigator may rightly treat them as valid evidence; for
example, the significant decline in scoring rate within the test
unit (the nin, column, set, page, etc.) or the tendency of the
subject to score reliably below the chance average under certain
conditions, or the consistent way in which some subjects miss a
specified symbol by calling it, more often than chance would
average, by some other symbol name, or their occasional tendency
to displace and hit title
target next to the one intended and to
hold consistently to this oblique way of responding.
These are aH well-established by-products of psi investigations
that have been encountered by many research workers. They
are not typical of conscious, sensory perception, and they are at
least partly the result of the fact that the subject cannot profit
from his success and failure. The psi process does not give the
basis for learning by which introspection can associate error with
the awareness of what was done wrong. In a word, learning in
the specific sense in which the word is used in psychology should
not be expected under the conditions in which psi operates.
As one can readily see, this unconsciousness of psi has made its
investigation extremely difficult It would help to explain why the
many efforts to train subjects to better performance have not been
successful Not even the effort on die part of the subject to
learn by testing himself and by making an immediate checkup on
his success and failure has led to any remarkable improvement.*
This indicates that something more is
lacking than knowledge of
success and failure as such. An essential part of the learning
function would presumably involve an awareness of the method
by which the right or wrong response had been made. At this
point one can only ask whether there may be an insurmountable
barrier here to die improvement of psi performance through
learning. But this is another frontier awaiting study.
F. Psi-missing
The unconsciousness of psi has created much havoc in the
*
The outstanding example of a long series of tests with the subject knowing im-
mediately of success or failure after each trial is the work of G. N, M, Tyrrell; yet
his subject did not show any improvement of scores with practice under these
conditions (see Smith").
90 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
research field because of an effect that has come to be called
p$i-mis$ing.
lB
This is a merely descriptive term covering the
tendency of some subjects under certain conditions to give sig-
nificantly negative deviations; that is, to average below mean
chance expectation. Such negative scoring is due to the fact that
any condition which systematically
disturbs psi in such test con-
ditions as are now standard (allowing deviation above or below
the theoretical mean and requiring a response to a regular given
number of possibilities)
is bound to produce a reversal of devia-
tion. Anything the subject may inadvertently do to depart
systematically from the correct way of exercising psi (for him)
would count against even his scoring at chance level. If, for
example, he normally scores highest by taking the first symbol
that comes to mind, then when he cautiously decides to make a
practice of waiting instead for a later, more vivid one, he will be
sure to induce psi-missing.
It would not matter for what reason
the subject changed his practice, whether unconscious nega-
tivism or just a curious urge to try a different device. The result
would be the same an unwitting rejection of the target.
It is a good question whether psi is the only function that
suffers from this odd reversal effect It seems very probable that
the frustrating consequences of this type of systematic error of
judgment operating on an unconscious level might have wide
bearings for general psychology, more especially for its abnormal
problem areas. Thus far, however, it looks like a new effect one
unknown to the general field. It has, indeed, created disraptively
abnormal effects for the parapsychologist; as, for example, when
a subject in participating in long runs of trials develops at the
mid-point or thereabouts (as some have done) a sort of cumula-
tive strain that induces a psi-missing tendency for the rest of the
ran. The score total will be dismissed as a chance result, yet
there may well be a highly significant decline distribution within
the run.
G. Psi-missing and Partial Perception
On the jpositive side of the ledger of psi values there is some-
thing to be credited to the unconsciousness of psi and especially
to its most outstanding consequence, psi-missing. One of the
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 91
more illuminating points the evidence for psi-missing has brought
out is that psi is not an all-or-none function. For example, when
a subject responds to an ESP card in a test the indications are
that he does not either completely know or not know which it is in
the absolute degree that usually applies let us say to uninhibited
visual perception. This is
brought out by the fact that in a
number of experiments in which the ability to score below chance
was compared with the capacity for scoring above, the deviations
were numerically similar. Yet it can be seen that if a subject
knew for certain, let us say, 20 cards out of 100, and could only
get "chance" (20 per cent) on the rest, he could expect 36 per cent
as the most likely score in the normal test, Le,, a positive deviation
of 16 per cent. If, however, he were deliberately or unconsciously
trying to score low and still knew 20 of the 100 cards, he should
expect to get 16 correct by chance, a negative deviation of 4
per cent.
The fact mentioned above, that in actual tests in which psi-
missing occurs approximately as large a deviation (negative, of
course ) may be produced as normally is
produced by psi-hitting,
indicates that less knowledge is needed to say what a card is not
than to say what it is. To equal in a negative (psi-missing) series
the positive score of 36 per cent would require a score of only
4 per cent or a negative deviation of 16 per cent. To get this
would require a little knowledge about a lot more cards than the
20 assumed in the illustration above. This indicates that percep-
tion in ESP, as in the marginal zone of sensory perception, is
partial, not absolute. And in many respects it
appears to be
processed through the same type of judgmental exchange as occurs
in marginally conscious or subconscious sensory functions. This
and other useful clues are mainly by-products of the psi-missing
studies.
EL Some Mental States Associated with Psi-missing
Psi-missing has also enabled investigators to give some intelli-
gent interpretation to a large array of curiously conflicting results
obtained from a wide range of different investigations. Most com-
mon in this array are the tests dealing with personality correlates
of ESP test performance; that is, the study of measures of person-
92 PAHAPSYCHOLOGY
ality that seem to be related to scoring level in ESPc For example,
the studies of Sehmeidler1
at City College, New York, brought out
the fact that if students tested in the classroom for ESP capacity
were first
separated on the basis of their attitude toward the possi-
bility of ESP, the results showed a different level of scoring for
those who were favorable ( sheep )
and for those who were skepti-
cal (goats). The sheep as a group almost invariably averaged
higher *lw* the goats. The goats, however, scored below mean
Series! Srics2 SeriesS Serie$4 SsmsS S*ri6 Series! Series*
Effect of attitude tipon ESP test performance. The sheep are those
subjects who accept or are open-minded to the possibility of ESP,
while the goats reject it (Schmeicfler).
chance expectation and did so with a degree of consistency that
was impressive. The difference between the sheep and goats has
ova: the years of testing contributed a phenomenally significant
difference between the amassed data of the two groups.
Now it was quite evident in this work that die principle of
separation was concerned more with the sign (or direction) of the
deviation of die scoring of a given subject than with the amount of
ESP measured. The attitude of the subjects allowed a separation
of the individuals in the classes on the one hand into one group
that tended to score positively and a second group on the other
hand that
preponderantly scored a negative deviation. The fact
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 93
is, the goats showed statistical evidence of an ESP effect just as
the sheep did*
This repeated result is
typical of a fairly large number of in-
vestigations; some of these involved the registration of the attitude
of the subject toward the test,
20
others recorded certain mental
states (or physiological accompaniments) occurring during the
test.
21
Some were aimed at estimating a general trait such as
extraversion-introversion,
22
still others dealt with patterns of in-
terest,
28
and there were still other psychological estimates tried.
24
In all this we are dealing with essentially exploratory work, al-
though some of it was done under conditions approximating the
verification level A number of these measures have proved
effective to a degree in separating high scorers from low. And not
only that, they have thrown the group representing one end ^ tLe
scale of personality measurement as far below the chance mean
as the otter end of the scale placed the other group above. This
indicates that what was being measured was not a mental state
correlated with the ESP process but, rather, an aspect of test
performance a part having to do with the psi-missing effect; that
is, the correlated mental state did not determine how much ESP
would function but whether it would produce a negative or a
positive deviation, whether it would consistently hit or consistently
miss the target Thus far, then, certainly most of the measure-
ments made on correlated personality or general mental states
have had to do with that specific (psi-missing) element in the
sensitive mechanism of psi-in-the-test-situation. When the more
favorable conditions prevailed, the subject was able to get positive
results. At the other end of the scale the same amount of ESP
operated but it was twisted somehow in expression and resulted
as an avoidance of the target This is indeed one of the interesting
puzzles for future study.
HI. Conditions Affecting Psi
The exercise of psi capacity is more difficult to control or com-
mand than that of most other known mental processes, but, as we
have already seen, this matter of control is relative. Psi is
subject
to some voluntary control even though its essential functioning is
94 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
unconscious; that is, it is
subject to volitional direction as to the
objective, the target selected, the timing, and other specified fea-
tures. It appears, then, that psi is a dirigible or controllable
faculty of personality even though at present the limitations of
control are so great as to allow little use or application of the
ability.
A* The Role of Motivation
Now the most important controlling factor in mental life in
general is drive or motivation. All of the abilities of men and
animals are naturally dependent upon this striving or motivational
influence. It appears to be no less the case with psi. In fact, one
of the impressions gained from the study of spontaneous cases is
that in most of them the conative nature of the experience is
obvious28
and usually a strong purpose is involved* Often a power-
ful urge is evident behind the experience, perhaps the need of one
of a pair of deeply-attached individuals to reach the other in a
crisis, the need to know of an impending event threatening a loved
one. These are familiar types, although less strongly motivated
ones are also common.
Such motivation as just mentioned cannot, of course, be intro-
duced into the standard tests, desirable as such a method would
be from the point of view of providing conditions for maximum
scoring. But experimental evidence, too, indicates that the sub-
ject's motivation is
important The grounds provided by certain
special researches are rather good for
attributing value in raising
ESP scores to .the use of rewards or prizes adapted to the subject's
age and interest26
But even in the average psi experiment there is
(or should be) lively interest and drive. In the average normal
individual there may be a desire to impress the experimenter or to
stand out wefl among the other subjects. He may even be driven
by scientific enthusiasm, or, again, by his own individual curiositv
concerning his abilities.
Obviously the extent to which these
motivating states can be developed depends greatly upon the in-
dividual himself, the type of test situation, and the experimenter
in charge.
The striking results of ESP tests often obtained with strongly
motivated subjects indicate better than anything else the impor-
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 95
tanee of the factor of interest. Instances are on record in which
subjects produced extremely high scores during intervals of in-
tense interest and enthusiasm. The indications of the high-pitched
drive involved are reasonably good. In one example of a perfect
score of twenty-five the subject at the end remarked, **You will
never get me to do that againl" In another, following a score of
twenty-two hits out of twenty-five trials, the 10-year old boy who
was the subject became nauseated from the excitement developed
by the experimenter's encouragement throughout the series of
several runs culminating in the high score. In the series of tests
conducted by Riess27
in which a perfect score of twenty-five was
obtained toward the end and the over-all average was above eight-
een out of twenty-five, the test was interrupted by the illness of
the subject, diagnosed as hyperthyroidism. It was reported that
the family of the subject considered that the experiments were a
factor, a source of nervous strain, suggesting that she was highly
motivated. These and other outstanding performances accom-
panied by evidences of extreme effort on the part of the participant
have led investigators to attach the greatest importance to having
the subject, whenever possible, approach the test with a driving
interest
At the other extreme, where scoring rate in psi tests approaches
a pure chance average, as it does in a great deal of experimental
work, the factor most likely responsible is
again the subject's
motivation. It should be emphasized, especially for those con-
templating an actual test program involving psi capacity, that a
merely casual interest in taking a test (let us say, at the request
of a teacher or friend) is not enough to enable the average individ-
ual to produce evidence of psi. This is
probably the reason why
many of those exploratory experimenters who from time to time
undertake to conduct an ESP test series with a class or lecture
audience obtain only an insignificant result. (It is true there may
be a degree of psi activity involved that can easily be over-looked
because the results of the subjects who score positively by ESP
may be canceled out by others who show psi-missing. Such slight
effects can only be discovered by a systematic analysis of the data
on a prearranged plan, such as Schmeidler's sheep-goat distinc-
tion.)
96 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
The fact that needs emphasis in psi research today, however, is
that such low-level scoring in mass tests, even when it is
acceptably
significant,
is far below the potential of the individual subjects
involved ie., below the level of performance of which many of
them are capable when strongly activated to achieve their utmost.
It is, in fact, necessary for almost everyone to be keenly inspired to
exercise his psi-ability to a marked degree. Rare individuals can,
it is true, do well while appearing to play at the tests with a seem-
ingly indifferent manner though this appearance may not give
the true picture of the effort involved. Certainly some subjects can
perfarm well for a time at least with less effort than the average
person would require. Most people, however, need to be led up
to participation in the test in such a way as to feel its
challenge to
the full, and to be moved to exert their utmost in an intelligent and
concentrated manner, free of doubts and other distractions and
uncomplicated by rational inhibitions.
AH this is
obviously a very difficult state of mind to induce,
either in one's self or in others. Sometimes it can be brought about
or incidentally caught momentarily but under conditions that do
not long continue. The use of hypnosis in creating such a state of
mind at once suggests itself, but it has not been established as yet
that the state induced by that means is more than a simulation of
the desired effect. The lack of control over psi attainable by
hypnosis may be due to the lack of complete acceptance of the
suggestion on a level that genuinely affects psi functioning. On
the other hand, the good results obtained in group tests of ESP
with children would seem to be due to the transparent candor of
the age level in revealing its attitudes, thus giving the experimenter
a dear index of motivation and thus enabling
him to work up the
required enthusiasm before testing. The children have not yet
acquired the manners and habits that cover up their spontaneous
attitudes.
Be Hie Complications of Psi-missing
The driving interest or enthusiasm of the subject for the achieve-
ment of high scores does not, however, determine whether the
stibfect will score positively or negatively (Le., above or below the
chance average). Two different sets of factors are involved, one
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 97
determining the amount of psi and the other, the sign (positive
or negative) of its deviation. The test conditions may be such as
to induce a psi-missing effect In such a case the more the subject
is motivated the larger the negative deviation will be. This has
been brought out under comparative experimental tests by the
use of rewards. These experiments imply that the subject's drive
has much to do with the amount of evidence of ESP ( size of devia-
tion) he will give, but that quite a different set of factors have to
do with whether the result will be one of hitting or of missing
(which sign the deviation will have). Obviously it is
very im-
portant to realize that these two independent factors are to be
dealt with, for both affect the results.
While the strength of motivation of the subject is the primary
consideration influencing the amount of evidence of psi he can
produce, there are many conditions that can affect the sign of
deviation. As we have already indicated, there are many states
of mind which, in the subject, can upset psi-hitting and convert it
into psi-missing. In experiments the worst aspect of this compli-
cation has been that psi-missing often comes in to dilute or cancel
the positive deviation contributed either by other subjects or by
the same subjects at an earlier stage. The swing over to the nega-
tive side of chance expectation is not always discovered in time or
in such a way that its
cancelling effect can be avoided. It may
come about as a decline of scoring rate in the run or set or record
page or other unit of the total data. One grouping of subjects may
give negative effects while the others give positive; or, if the ex-
periment is a complicated one with more than one type of test or
condition, one condition may give a negative deviation and the
other a positive one. More often than not when a variety of con-
ditions are involved the subjects have a preference and the condi-
tion least liked produces psi-missing. It is, therefore, extremely
important for the experimenter to consider these possible un-
stabilizing influences in the design o his experiments, in his selec-
tion of subjects, and in the exploratory or pilot-testing stage.
28
It is known that in general in a typical group of subjects those
who are more introverted, more skeptically inclined, and least
satisfied with the testing personnel are more likely to get negative
deviations. On the other hand, those who are more favorably
98 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
oriented, more extraverted, more self-confident and generally
enthusiastic are most likely to average on the positive sideo Con-
ditions that put the subject under strain, impress
hfrn with the
difficulty or absurdity of the task, and develop intellectual conflict
or tension are reasonably certain to lower the scoring rate below
the mean expected from chance. Or if a comparison of conditions
is involved in the test, the unavoidable development of a prefer-
ence on the part of a subject is
likely to play a part in the delicate
mechanism which decides whether the subject will hit or miss the
target Observations like these are, in great part, well-established
although some are only the working impressions of experienced
investigators. It would be safe enough to take either category
rather seriously in planning or interpreting research*
Perhaps the best way to summarize the facts known about the
effect of psychological conditions in psi testing is to formulate
recommendations to psi investigators, and Chapter 7 will serve
that purpose.
References
1. RHINE, J, B,: Psi phenomena and psychiatry. Proc. Roy. Soc. Med.
43:804-314, 1950.
2. RHINE, J. B.: Extrasensory perception and hypnosis, in Experimen-
tal Hypnosis, L. M. LeCron, editor. New York, Macmillan, 1952,
pp. 359-368.
3. SHULMAN, R: A study of card-guessing in psychotic subjects /
Pompsgchol, 2:95-106, 1938.
4 BAIES, K. K, and NEWTON, M.: An experimental study of ESP
capacity in mental patients. /. ParapsychoL, 15:271-277, 1951.
5. SCHMEIDLEH, G. H; ESP performance and the Rorschach test: A
survey of recent experiments. /. Soc, Psychical Res., 35:323-339,
6. Siam, B. M, and HUMEHBET, B. M.: Some personality character-
istics related to ESP performance. /. ParapsychoL, 10:269-289,
JL&4O*
7. NJCOL, J. K, and HUMPHHET, B. M.: The exploration of ESP and
human personality. /. Am. Soc. Psychical Res^ 47:133-178, 1953.
8. BOND, E. M.: General extrasensory perception with a group of
fourth and fifth grade retarded children. /. ParapsychoL, 1:114-
122, 1937.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PSI 99
9. HUMPHREY, B. M.: ESP and intelligence. /. Parapsychol, 9:7-16,
1945.
10. RHINE, J. B. : The present outlook on the question of psi in animals.
J. Parapsychol, 15:230-251, 1951.
11. RHINE, J. B., and RHINE, L. E.: An investigation of a "mind-read-
ing'* horse. J. Abnorm. 6- Social PsychoL, 23:449-466, 1929.
12. BECHIEREV, V.: "Direct influence" of a person upon the behavior
of animals. /. Parapsychol, 13:166-176, 1949 (translated and
condensed from Ztschr. Psychotherapie, 1924).
13. Osis, K.: A test of the occurrence of a psi effect between man and
the cat /. Parapsychol, 16:233-256, 1952.
14 Osi5,K., and FOSTER, E.B.: A test of ESP in cats. J. Parapsychol.,
17:168-186, 1953.
15. RHINE, L. E.: Subjective forms of spontaneous psi experiences. /.
Parapsychol., 17:77-114, 1953.
16. RHINE, J. B.: The source of the difficulties in parapsychology. /.
Parapsychol, 10:162-168, 1946.
17. SMTIH, B. M.: The Tyrrell experiments. J. Parapsychol, 1:63-69,
1937.
18. RHINE, J. B.: The problem of psi-missing. J. Parapsychol, 16:90-
129, 1952.
19. SCHMEEDLER, G. R., and MURPHY, G.: The influence of belief and
disbelief in ESP upon individual scoring levels. J. Exper.
Psychol, 36:271-276, 1946.
20. WOODRUFF, J. L., and DALE, L. A.: Subject and experimenter atti-
tudes in relation to ESP scoring. J. Am. Soc. Psychical Res.,
44:87-112, 1950.
21. BKUGMANS, H. J. F. W.: Some experiments in telepathy performed
in the Psychological Institute of the University of Groningen.
Compte-Rendu du Premier Congres International des Re-
cherches Psychiques, 1921.
22. HUMPHREY, B. M.: Introversion-extroversion ratings in relation to
scores in ESP tests. J. Parapsychol, 15:252-262, 1951.
23. STUART, C. E.: An interest inventory relation to ESP scores. J.
Parapsychol, 10:154-161, 1948.
24 HUMPHREY, B. M.: Success in ESP as related to form of response
drawings: L Clairvoyance experiments. J. Parapsychol, 10:
78-106, 1946; IL GESP experiments. J. Parapsychol, 10:181-
196, 1946.
25. MURPHY, G.: Psychical phenomena and human needs. J. Am.Soc.
Psychical Res., 37:163-191, 1943.
100 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
26. RHINE, J. B.: Experiments bearing upon the precognition hy-
pothesis : IL Mechanically selected cards. /. ParapsychoL,
5:1-57, 1941 (see also pp. 36-58).
27. Brass, B. F.: A case of high scores in card guessing at a distance.
J. Paaupsychol, 1:260-263, 1937.
28. RHINE, J. B.: Conditions favoring success in psi tests. /. Para-
psychoL, 12:58-75, 1948.
Additional Reading
FOSTER, A. A.: ESP tests with American Indian children. /. Para-
psychol, 7:94-103, 1943.
FOSTER, A. A.: Is ESP diametric? /. Parapsychol, 4:325-328, 1940.
HUMPHREY, B. M.: ESP score level predicted by a combination of
measures of personality. /. Parapsychol, 14:193-206, 1950.
HUMPHREY, B. M.: ESP tests with mental patients before and after
electroshock treatment /. Soc. Psychical Res., 37:259-266, 1954.
IfuMPHBEY, B. M.: Paranormal occurrences among preliterate peoples
J. Parapsychol, S:214-229, 1944.
HUMPHREY, B. M., and NICOL, J. F.: The exploration of ESP and
human personality. /. Am. Soc. Psychical. Res., 47:133-178, 1953.
MURPHY, G.: Personality appraisal and the paranormal J. Am. Soc
Psychical Res., 41:3-11, 1947.
NICOL, J. F., and HUMPHREY, B. M.: The repeatability problem in
ESP-personality research. /. Am. Soc. Psychical. Res., 49:125-156
PRATT, J. G.: The homing problem in pigeons. J. Paravsvchol 17*
34-60,1953.
Hy "' '
RHINE, L. K: Hidden Channels of the Mind. New York, Sloane,
ROSE, K: Living Magic. New York, Rand McNally, 1956.
ROSE, R: Exp^iments in ESP and PK with aboriginal subjects /
Parapsychol, 16:219-220, 1952.
TBOUIJSS, B. R, and WIESNER, B. P.: On the nature of psi phenomena.
I PampsychoL, 10:107-119, 1946.
THOTIJSSS, R. H^ and WIESNER, B. P: The psi processes in normal and
paranormaT psychology. /. Parapsychol, 12:192-212, 1948.
Chapter 6
Psi Research and Other Related Fields
is not a book o interpretation, we do not attempt to
go into even the most obvious of the far-reaching implications
and bearings of the findings of parapsychology. Although a good
case can be made for the view that interpretation is an integral
part of a science, it does not follow that the entire picture has al-
ways to appear between the same covers. But even while confin-
ing ourselves, as committed, to a strictly factual emphasis, there
remains the task of reviewing the common research frontiers that
have opened up between parapsychology and the adjacent dis-
ciplines or problem areas closely enough related to have overlap-
ping interests.
This further review can be seen as a continuation of the two
immediately preceding chapters. In them the facts of psi relating
to physics were first presented and then the findings relating to
general psychology. Now we shall go on to other fields with which
psi is less deeply involved than with the two mentioned. Some
of the adjoining areas are branches of science while others are
fields of practice or professional work. In this survey the aim will
be to follow the frontier of the application of psi itself rather than
any systematic plan of cumcular division.
L Psi in Practice
Little actual practice survives today that is identified, at least
by the practitioners themselves, with psi capacity. As scientific
thinking extended its influence over modern cultures, practices
that depended upon so "unscientific** a theory as psi seemed to be
naturally looked upon with disapproval. This would follow, what-
ever their merits, especially if, as we should expect with psi, there
101
102 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
were also considerable difficulty in the practical application of the
capacity*
However, it is not easy to be sure whether or not success in such
practices is due to psi or to some other ability or function. To be-
gin with, most practices today that might involve psi are believed
by the practitioners to depend upon some other principle or ration-
ale, and even such beliefs may vary from one community, from
one individual, to another. For example, in such practices as
palmistry and astrology theories and systems of practical guidance
are laid down which in operation allow considerable latitude for
the practitioner's, interpretative judgment and intuitive impres-
sion. Such interpretation could well depend on psi. We cite
these, however, to illustrate areas of investigation that have not
produced results that merit scientific
acceptance.
Two areas of practice of this general type, however, have been
brought far enough into scientific perspective, at least in an ex-
ploratory way, to have won a certain amount of scientific interest
Hie more important and conspicuous of these is the practice of
medmmship. In this case the theory of the believers in the prac-
tice is that discarnate spirits communicate with the living by using
the practitioner as a medium or instrument But since this theory
itself would, if valid, have a religious importance much greater
than any of the merely practical consequences, we shall leave the
discussion of it as a research project to the section on psi and re-
ligion.
The other practice is what is Icnown as dowsing or, as it has been
commonly practiced, the divination for
underground water or
minerals. Dowsing is a combination, on the one hand, of a motor
automatism or unconscious muscular movement and, on the other,
of some sort of extrasensory guidance to
discovery of the location
of a specified object or substance. In the most familiar type of
the practice the dowser is asked to find a suitable location for a
wei; he takes aforked twig by the two small ends and, holding it
in such a way that it tends to swing easily and with very delicate
pressure, he walks over the ground until the rod swings downward.
Generally the dowser believes he is
exerting no influence himself
on the twig and that it is
responding to forces
emanating from the
underground material he is
seeking. There are many adaptations,
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 103
modifications, and other variations of this procedure, the most
common being the substitution of a pendulum for the twig. The
pendulum method is more common in French speaking countries,
and the name "radiesthesia" has been associated with die practice
with the pendulum as compared with "dowsing" applied to the
movement of the rod or twig. The pendulum is more convenient
to use over maps and the practice has been adapted to use a
diagram or map of the terrain where the location of the water
(or other substance) is desired.
In recent years in the U. S. A. a more sophisticated and urban-
ized form of dowsing has been developed, mainly by practical
workers in public utility organizations. These people, confronted
with the problem of locating underground pipes and other
structures, have developed the practice of using as dowsing "in-
struments" metal rods with right angles, one in each hand, held in
such a way that they swing very easily as the locator** walks over
the area to be explored. The belief of those who use them is that
the rods will swing when they cross over the pipe. The practice
is also widespread in and around the petroleum industry. There
have been numerous modifications of this dowsing or "doodle-
bug" type of exploration.
In spite of the widespread and still active practice of dowsing
comparatively little research has been carried out on the problem
it
presents. One reason for this is that it is
very difficult, if not
impossible, to make a dependable evaluation of reports of practical
results, even when they are available. It is sometimes possible to
check up on the success of individual dowsers, but usually im-
possible to determine how much knowledge from more familiar
sources the individual dowser may have had. Chance cannot be
estimated, either, and control tests are not very efficient.
Yet researches have been undertaken. The efforts that have
been made thus far have nearly all taken the direction of first
modifying the practice itself sufficiently to allow the introduction
of at least preliminary control. For example, dowsers reputed to
be successful in locating underground water have been tried on
underground pipes in which the water is known to be flowing.
In the preliminary tests that were made the rod turned as the
dowser passed over the ground where the pipe was buried. But
104 PAHAPSYCHOLOGY
when he was tihen told the water had been turned off, and when
he again passed over the pipe location, the rod did not turn.
Then he was ready for a test in which the action of the rod, as the
dowser walked back and forth over the ground in which the pipe
was laid, should be taken as an indicator as to how well the
dowser could tell when he was over miming water. With this
technique and a cooperative dowser and with attention to the
psychological need of the dowser to keep up his confidence in the
rod, possibilities
were found for a little
exploratory research on
uie problem*
Under such conditions sufficiently encouraging results have
been obtained to justify the continuance of the study.
1"*
As a
matter of fact, results have been comparable to those of ESP card
tests with beginning subjects. They lend weight to the view which
most workers in parapsychology would take, that dowsing, if
and when it is
really successful under conditions in which rational
judgment could not explain the results, is a combination of uncon-
scious muscular movement and clairvoyant ESP. Several points of
similarity between the test data of dowsing and ESP support this
interpretation*
Some of the exploratory experiments in dowsing have been
carried out using hidden coins or other objects considered by the
dowser as acceptable targets.
4
The rate of success in these tests
was of the order of scoring obtained in the more familiar types of
ESP tests. There is, however, nothing thus far to indicate that
the use of the motor automatism is in itself of any value to the
ESP testing procedure. It has a secondary virtue, however, in
fiat for some subjects it
encourages stronger belief in their ability;
such a belief helps to generate and sustain interest in the test
In this the seeming independence of the automatic movement may
be a supporting factor, since it makes it
appear impersonal
The example of dowsing represents a wide front of possible
application of psi to the affairs of real life. As understanding of
the psi function develops and control over its
operation increases
we shall hear more about applications; but we must expect the
development to be slow and gradual on account of the depth at
which the function is embedded in the unconscious mental system
of the individual
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 105
II, Psi in Psychiatry
This section takes us far away from the kind of practice
involved in medinmship and dowsing, yet it leaves us still within
the wide scope of practical problems, in this instance strictly per-
sonal or human ones. As we indicated in the preceding chapter,
a fair amount of exploratory investigation has been carried out in
mental hospitals, using the mentally ill as subjects in tests for
ESP. These introductory inquiries were made either to see
whether subjects in certain psychopathological states might be
discovered that would give more outstanding results in ESP tests
thfl-n the general average of normal subjects or to see if
any con-
nection could be found between mental illness and parapsychical
abilities. In recalling these studies in the present somewhat
different connection, it is well to remember that they have been
comparatively few, as well as considerably scattered, efforts. No
one of the researches made, and not even all
together, could
properly be considered as constituting a thoroughly exhaustive
study of all the possible associations of psi and mental disorder to
the degree the question merits.
Perhaps the greatest reason for cautious judgment at this point
lies in the fact that in all the studies the effort consisted in carrying
into the mental hospitals tests devised for the laboratory and for
normal volunteer subjects.
5"8
There is then some psychological
basis for supposing that the tests may not be properly and fairly
comparative. A test designed for a well man may not always be
a comparably effective test for a sick man, and vice versa. When
we recall that psi is the most mercurial of all mental phenomena
yet studied, we can appreciate the need for caution in looking at
the results of these mental hospital tests of ESP.
The great need for the investigation of psi in mental patients is
for a proper clinical test or, rather, a testing system that would
have within itself the necessary devices of adjustment to fit it to
the various states and stages to which, if it is to be useful, it must
easily be adapted. Since situations vary so extremely in the pa-
tient's world, special psychological requirements should be worked
out for testing psi at the bedside. Such special standardizations
and establishments of norms needed for clinical use must, of
106 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
course, await the recognition of need by members of the profes-
sions concerned.
Not all of the researches on psi in the psychiatric area have been
experimental. The case study methods that are themselves
more conspicuous in this area have given rise to a considerable
body of literature*
9
This group of studies has mainly to do with
the occurrence of telepathy, usually between patient and psychia-
trist in the course of psychiatric treatment. As the suggested
readings on this topic listed in the section and at the end of the
chapter will show, a number of articles, along with even a small
number of books, give to this area of overlap between psi and
psychiatry something of the appearance of a distinct branch or
school The degree to which tie clinical study of
telepathy in
psychiatric practice has been fruitful is still a matter of individual
judgment The study has been mainly associated with psycho-
analytic methods of therapy. The suggestive findings have not as
yet been brought to the verification stage as they have to be be-
fore the results can be judged.
In one respect the psychiatrist is in an excellent position to deal
intelligently with the psi function, especially if his patient shows
spontaneous manifestations of psi or if
psi can be induced experi-
mentally. Probably no one else could have a comparable under-
standing of the personality of the individual to that which the
psychiatrist could and should have before his professional treat-
ment is
completed. With this
advantage he should be especially
well situated to make discoveries
regarding the functioning of
psi in the mental life of the individual
Another important common boundary is shared by the parapsy-
chologist and the psychiatrist in their study of the personality of
man. It is a conspicuous fact, one we suspect not very fully
appreciated in
parapsychology itself as yet, that
psychiatry and
parapsychology really deal with the same types of spontaneous
surface phenomena. No other two fields, for example, have so
great an appreciation of dreams. No other branch of study but
psychiatry shares with
parapsychology its
recognition of the
importance of such exceptional experiences as hallucinations
autoxmtisms odd intuitions, and compulsive motor responses.
No other study of human nature shares with the psi investigator
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 107
the interest in dream symbolism, dramatization, and distortion
that psychiatry
rather generally does.
And, of course, above all, the two branches are concerned with
the more submerged area of personality, the unconscious level of
mental life. When more pieces of the puzzle of man's nature
have been fitted together and the pattern of unconscious mental
functioning becomes clearer, there will likely be other common
ground discovered; we suggest that the psi-missing effect that is
so conspicuous a part of parapsychological study may be found
to have its comparable effects in abnormal mental life. It may be
responsible
for some of those persistently perverse judgments
which, systematically
made with the best of conscious intention,
contribute eventually to the ultimate derangement of the indi-
viduaTs life. They may be due to the same subconcious tendency
which contributes a significant negative deviation in psi experi-
ments. It is but one of many problems of magnitude that await
the research worker along this frontier on the domain of mental
disorder.
111. The Place of Psi in Education
Only in recent years has there been any effort made to bring
the study of psi into the field of education. From time to time an
occasional experiment in ESP had been carried out in a school-
room, but these investigations were made largely in the interest
of finding conveniently located subjects who were willing to par-
ticipate in the tests. Likewise, investigations had been made of
children in schools for the blind, in orphanages, and in institutions
for mentally retarded children; but in none of these was the pri-
mary objective that of finding out what possible role psi might
play in the educational operation itself, the exchange between
teacher and pupil
The first step in this area of investigation
was taken in Holland,
in the work of van Busschbach, himself an inspector of schools, in
Amsterdam.1(>
The point of view was distinctly that of the educa-
tor and the study was designed to discover whether, in the
teacher-pupil relation, a psi factor might be an important element
The first
step was to find out if psi could be demonstrated between
108 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
teacher and pupils in the classroom situation* Resulting tests
showed that the teacher, and only the teacher belonging to the
particular classroom, did serve as a successful agent in tests of
GESP. When substitute teachers or when pupils were agents
instead of the regular teachers, the results obtained were attrib-
utable to chance. The repetition of the experiment by assistants in
a second city of Holland11
and in two American cities
12
showed
tfrM the finding had a much more general significance.
At the same time the delicate character of the psi function was
well demonstrated too. Van Busschbach designed his test for
the fifth and sixth grades and couched the instructions and psycho-
logical cast of the test in the language calculated to appeal to
fifth and sixth graders; then, when he applied the test to seventh
and eighth grade pupils and to still
higher grades, he obtained
only chance results. Likewise, comparable tests on still
younger
children were insignificant These findings at this stage are of
more evident significance to parapsychology than to education.
Their importance lies mainly in the fact that they reveal a rela-
tionship already established and a widely extended one into
which the ESP tests can be readily fitted. It looks as though a
natural test situation has been found that is suited to the operation
of psi.
On the side of education, however, the small beginning made
has a greater importance than may at first
appear. The results
indicate that some communication on extrasensory lines is
possible
when the teacher and pupils are in a certain state of established
relations. This is the beginning, necessarily slender and tenuous,
for a line of research that might reveal much of what is still un-
known about conditions essential to die best teacher-pupil ex-
change. A more recent study from the Duke Laboratory
18
throws
a sharper focus on the educational significance of some of the psi
tests in the sdboolroom. In this research ESP tests carried out in
the classroom, using a clairvoyance technique, showed highly sig-
nificant positive results when pupil and teacher liked each other.
But when there was a combination of dislike or disapproval on the
part of both teacher and pupil, the scoring rate was as far below
mean chance expectation as the positive group had scored above.
Here the test revealed that psi itself was functioning under both
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 109
extremes of relations, but that the psi-missing tendency was di-
verting it into a negative deviation when the interpersonal relations
were negative. We must be cautious in interpreting these results
and generalizing from them, since the experiments are still new
(even though successful repetitions are already in hand as this
book goes to the printer) . It would, however, be entirely safe to
say that, if found to have general application, these findings will
have great significance for the future study of many interpersonal
relationships, both in and beyond the schoolroom.
IV. Anthropology's Contact with Psi
In the analysis and evaluation of folk beliefs and practices in
the comparative study of different human cultures, social anthro-
pology has often come up against the problem of appraisal of
material suggesting psi phenomena. The relationship suggested
is that psi manifestations appear more prominent the less literate
and scientifically sophisticated the culture. Hie tendency, there-
fore, has been to look for a predominance of psi in socially more
primitive areas.
For the most part the anthropologist has been unable to evalu-
ate the practices and beliefs that appear to involve psi functions.
Consequently more or less under fixe restraining pressure of his
own culture, he has been inclined to discount any such capacity
as psi Usually, therefore, such claims and manifestations have
been attributed to credulity, illusion, and fraud.
In terms of actual work already done, only one cultural study
can be mentioned here, one that was made on the Australian
aborigines. The anthropologist, EUdns, of Sidney, has for many
years called attention to the beliefs and practices of the aborigines
as giving what appears to be, on the surface, evidence t>f ESP.14
Partly under his inspiration and supervision two investigations of
the aborigines have been made, one carrying over to the experi-
mental situation the standard psi tests developed in die university
laboratory for the white race15
and the other attempting to adapt
the testing techniques to the folkways of the aborigines.
As it turned out, the use of the standard techniques more or less
as they are used in die university laboratory proved to be the more
110 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
successful in getting significant
results. Although the conditions
were necessarily exploratory
as regards full-scale precautions,
significant
results were obtained by Rose in ESP but not in PK
tests. The tests, however, were given to aborigines who had
already been to a considerable extent adjusted to die white man's
culture and there was not in all cases entire purity of stock In
the second study the effort was made to adapt the standard test to
aboriginal customs for the purpose of carrying the program to
a more purely original cultural setting.
This effort, however,
remains unfinished and needs further exploration, as indeed
does the whole frontier of anthropology as it touches on the
presence of psi in the experience of many peoples in many lands.
In spite of a certain interest on the part of the research worker
in parapsychology in the possibility
that in some little known cul-
ture there will yet be found some special development of psi ca-
pacity, such a hope when critically examined could gain little en-
couragement from the available literature of anthropology. Even
die tales of marvelous psychic mysteries in India and Tibet lose
much of their impressiveness when objective accounts are ob-
tained from different observers. It is unwise to rely wholly upon
any anecdotal account, be it
positive or negative, since we can
wefl afford to be on guard against the selective bias of the mecha-
nistic culture in which the anthropologist himself was educated.
There is also a question of what value psi test methods might
have in aiding the anthropological field worker in his operations.
It is
important to make a better estimate than can be made by
relying on the observer's mere personal impression as to whether,
let us say, the witch doctor does possess the exceptional powers he
claims. Many of these powers as reported would seem clearly to
involve psi capacity. If the anthropologist considered it worth
while most of die claims could be brought to experimental test and
die question setded. Here, then, the question arises as to what
kind of a test would be fair to the medicine man's claims. A bad
test, of course, would be wholly misleading and would be worse
dian none at all But it should be possible, with adequate knowl-
edge both of die culture concerned and of the methods used in
other areas of parapsychology research, for the anthropologist to
make appropriate test adaptations to suit the field conditions of
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 111
his quest. Enough has been accomplished in the single example
given by the Australian work to justify this confidence.
V. The Biology of Psi
The fact that psi capacity is a part of the living organism, of
course, places it within the broad field of biology. Biologists in
America have not as yet given the field of parapsychology much
attention, but in view of their preoccupation almost exclusively
with the physical aspects of living nature this state of indifference
is to be expected. Naturally, the mechanistic philosophy which
dominates reflective thought in the field makes it hard for them
to look objectively at data that seem to disagree with that view
as a complete theory of life.
But, as we indicated in Chapter 5, certain phenomena of animal
behavior, for which no known physical explanation is
forthcoming,
have for centuries presented puzzling problems to biology. Con-
spicuous among these and very difficult to ignore is the manner
in which many species of birds in migratory flight or seasonal
transition find their way over enormous distances. Zoologists have
for many years been familiar, too, with the fact that certain species
are able to return successfully after being taken to points long
distances from home. Almost all types of domestic animals have
in some instances been reported capable of finding their way home
under a variety of circumstances that seem to leave no room for
the application of any known sensory mode of guidance as a
sufficient explanation. Many exploratory experiments in animal
homing, especially with mice and with certain species of birds but
also to some extent with cats and dogs, have added further to the
stock of information. The results are sufficiently unexplajnable by
sensory perception to make the hypothesis of ESP highly relevant,
for if man himself can sometimes in some way be influenced at a
distance by occurrences, for example, at his home (a fire, a family
illness, or other tragedy) it is reasonable to consider the possibility
of the other gimnflls likewise having some such capacity in suffi-
ciently reliable degree to guide them in the choice of the direction
they must take to find their way home. At any rate, something
does quite evidently guide them, and nothing else among experi-
112 PABAPSYCHOLOGY
mentally established hypotheses except ESP itself seems possible
to accountfor the majority of the occurrenceSo
Much attention in recent years
has been given to various hy-
potheses put together
out of complex bits of fact and theory de-
rived from modern science to explain
the navigation of homing
birds. Combination theories have been devised involving the
earth's magnetism, coriolis force, and the possibility
that birds may
have unknown but extremely sensitive sensory mechanisms ca-
pable of responding to these terrestrial influences. There are simi-
lar complex hypotheses concerning the influence of the sun, one of
them involving the equivalent
of an accurate chronometer in the
bird These speculatively
assume that the bird makes delicate
measurements of sun arc and angle and arrives at a judgment of
position and direction as effectively as the trained and equipped
navigator,
15*
These fantastic hypotheses, however, have lost
rather than gained support from the extensive efforts to test them.
Accordingly, ESP remains as the only possible hypothesis which
has already had some verification. For application to these phe-
nomena of distance orientation in animals the ESP hypothesis
awaits crucial tests to decide whether it is the explanation instead
of merely the only possible
one known. ( For other references to
the literature see Chapter 5 or the list in the Matthews book.15*
)
The presence
of psi in the few animals that have been experi-
mentally investigated
thus far gives considerable point to the ESP
hypothesis in connection with the phenomena of animal behavior
discussed above. As mentioned in Chapter 5, exploratory tests of
ESP have been successfully carried out on one horse, two dogs,
and quite a number of cats. The cat work is more recent and
better controlled; in fact, it complies with the higher standards of
verification, and although the results are only marginally signifi-
cant, they have been confirmed to the extent of being successfully
.repeated by the same investigator.
The biologist,
locked up as he is in his mechanistic framework
of thought, is not likely to consider an ESP hypothesis for any
phenomena of animal behavior on anything like equal terms with
even the most fantastic sensory explanation. But this situation is
obviously a temporary one in the evolution of biological thinking.
There is a growing realization that this same metaphysical as-
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 113
sumption (of physicalism) is
withholding from examination the
more basic factors in the organizational and directive forces in the
living organism, factors in the determination of behavior, of con-
sciousness, and of the entire personality.
16
Eventually more at-
tention will be paid to the break-through made by parapsychology
into the unexplored regions of nature to which access has been
barred by the restricting dogmatism of physicalistic science. The
resulting liberation might be expected to open a little further the
frontier between parapsychology and biology.
Oddly enough we see today a reversal of the role of the biologist
from that which he played a hundred years ago when, new facts
in hand, he assailed the prevailing (though unproved) theological
theory of the origin of species. Today it is the biologist who is
holding out for the prevailing (but equally unproved) theory in
this case a mechanistic theory of life; while it is the parapsycholo-
gist who, new facts in hand, is
presenting a challenge to a tradi-
tional assumption. Time, as the history of biology itself so well
illustrates, is on the side of the facts.
VI. Physiological Explorations in Parapsychology
As a functioning part of the organism psi clearly has some kind
of direct relation with the physiological system. Certainly the
manifestation of psi in all tie forms thus far recognized would
have to involve the nervous system in particular and the organism
in general to some extent While we must leave the fundamental
principles of this interaction to a much later point of research, the
efforts to study the more accessible aspects of the involvement of
psi in physiology may be discussed here on the basis of work
already done.
Most of the psi experiments involving a physiological aspect
have been exploratory efforts to influence the scoring rate by
means of drugs. Both in ESP tests and in PK the effect of narcotic
drugs, when used in heavy dosage, has been to interfere with
positive scoring and produce "chance" results.
17- 18
There has
been at least one report, however, that the use of a moderate
amount of alcohol (with a subject accustomed to it) had the effect
of raising the scoring level.
19
The effect of a heavy dosage of the
114 PAEAPSYCHOLOGY
narcotic, sodium amytal, on ESP scoring was to lower a positive
scoring rate to mean chance expectation*
On PK tests the effect
was first to increase the scoring rate and then with increased
dosage to lower it Caffein had, in general,
the effect of raising the
scoring level, not only in counteracting the effect of narcotic drugs
(sodium amytal) but in offsetting drowsiness and fatigue. In PK
tests the effect appeared as an unusual maintenance of scoring
level as against a sharp decline of scoring rate in the control
18
Other drugs have been tried in connection with ESP tests, but
thus far only with suggestive results. The effect of the stimulant
drug, dexedrine, was mixed, the card test showing a decline and
tests using picture targets giving improved scoring, while amytal
again seemed to produce a decline.
20
No settled conclusion has followed the exploratory inquiries on
physiological states induced by drugs in connection with ESP
tests, although it seems safe to accept the general impression that
narcotic drugs in sufficient dosage do interfere with the subject's
scoring performance in tests. Such results are, of course, to be
expected in view of the known effects of these drugs upon other
functions also involved in the subject's performance in the tests.
There need not even be any effect of the drug upon psi capacity
itself to bring about the results reported.
Only small beginnings have been made upon the important and
more fundamental question of the relation of psi to the physiologi-
cal functioning of the nervous system. A few beginning explora-
tions have been made regarding the possibility of a relation be-
tween a subject's ESP scores and his
electroencephalogram as re-
corded during the time of testing. Interesting associations have
been indicated by unpublished studies that are awaiting confirma-
tion. There is as yet, however, no evidence to suggest any basic
relation, and here, as with the question of drag effects, it is neces-
sary to remember that other functions besides psi are involved in
the test and may be responsible for the effects obtained
Other physiological measurements have been introduced to
explore the range of involvement of the psi function in action.
Among these introductory researches there has been an effort
made to discover whether psi varies with blood pressure, with
changes in sldn resistance (psychogalvanic response),
19
with -at-
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 115
mospheric pressure, and with difference in reaction time. The
results have at least shown the applicability of such methods in
the field of parapsychological research, but for the most part the
work so far done has been highly exploratory.
Challenging problems have risen out of observations on psi
effects connected with various kinds of special physiological states.
The subject may have been recovering from concussion21
or
experiencing euphoria following childbirth.
22
The suggestion has
been that some advantage might be found for the operation of psi
under these conditions. Likewise, there have been preliminary
inquiries into possible associations of psi with brain surgery (lobot-
omy) and the effects of shock therapy. None of the exploratory
efforts have shown a significant relation.
One of the needs of the present stage, so far as the "physiology
of psi" is concerned, is for more case reports from the various
clinics around the world concerning the occurrence of spontane-
ous psi in connection with special physiological states. Cases on
record regarding the psi effects surrounding death, deep anesthe-
sia, coma, shock, and the like have already suggested there may
be much to learn here about the place of psi in the organismic
scheme. The study of these clues should orient the research
worker on some very pertinent investigations in the future.
VII. The Psi Frontier on Medicine
No sharp distinction is drawn between the subject of discussion
in this section and that of the section on psychiatry. Neither, for
that matter, will there be a very clear-cut distinction between this
section and that on biology. However, some research efforts re-
main for presentation which are essentially medical or have a dis-
tinctive bearing on medicine.
It is far too early yet to try to say how much psi is involved in
the problems and practice of medicine. On the other hand, we can
present a fairly good case to indicate that it has something to do
with it.
Two lines of approach converge upon the general topic under
discussion. One, which follows the case-study method so familiar
to medicine, presents an unsolved problem or, rather, a large
110 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
problem-area of concern to that field A great wealth of medical
case material from several departments of that science raises the
question whether a direct subjective influence can be exerted over
organic functions. Many different branches of medical inquiry
have come to recognize the importance of psychological factors in
the patient, factors described as anxieties, tensions, stress, spirit, or
morale, or by other general terms reflecting attitudes. The success
of a very exploratory psychosomatic medicine in dealing with
organic disorders through, the correction of attitudes has added to
the empirical support for the idea that the state of mind has deter-
minative influence over the state of the body. No advance as yet,
however, has indicated how such different states can interact. In
other words, it is difficult to conceive of these effects in familiar
terms of causality.
Meanwhile, from the areas of unlicensed practice and unortho-
dox methods of healing come another collection of case reports
claiming cures as a consequence of faith or other purposive atti-
tudes of the patient
So much for the more clinical and anecdotal approach. It serves
to raise the question and it
helps, sometimes at least, to point the
way toward further investigation. From the other line of study
bearing upon this problem of the role of psi in medicine, however,
comes a more definite direction and impulse to the suggested line
of thought This approach has yielded something of an experi-
mental answer to the question raised from the case impressions
referred to; the question of whether there might be a direct action
of mental upon physiological function, of conscious experience
upon organic operations.
The line of thought begins with the PK researches, with the fact
that under proper circumstances a person can, to a slight degree at
least, influence moving physical bodies in the immediate environ-
ment We naturally infer from these data that some sort of gen-
eral function must be involved. No one would want to limit the
findings to the actual
dice-throwing tests on which the first work
was carried out Nature did not develop PK to throw dice, so the
question is: "What else can PK dor Knowing so little about it as
we do, it is better to take very short steps in our inferences and
leave until kter the question we may most wish to have answered
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 117
eventually the question of the extent to which the psi function
can aid the individual in his resistance to disease.
From the point of view of basic research it is better to ask if
the effect demonstrated on inanimate cubes can be demonstrated
similarly on living tissues. Some exploratory researches have
already been made on this next step following the establishment
of PK. We must label them all as definitely exploratory, in con-
trast to the researches on which the establishment of PK rests.
As a rule, however, there must always be a beginning suggestion
or two to stimulate scientific
investigation. In this case these hints
already obtained are no less
promising than any other. We may
one day come to appreciate some of the seemingly foolish little
ventures that start new lines of inquiry even more highly than we
will the more patently justifiable experiments that eventually
verify the hypothesis.
One effort to move the PK problem into the realm of the living
consisted cf substituting living mobile cells for dice, the experi-
menter trying to influence the swimming direction of a parame-
cium under a low-power microscope.
23
Another represents the
effort by a worker to influence the rate of germination of spores
counted under the microscope. A third involves an attempt to
influence the rate of growth of a culture of bacteria by direct
mental action. In all these explorations control tests were made
for quantitative comparison, and all were reported successful
They are, we strongly emphasize, unconfirmed introductory in-
quiries and have only the value of inviting repetition. But no
science can afford to forget the great oaks of scientific advance
begin with the tiny acorns of small unconfirmed exploratory bits
like these.
Most persistently investigated in this area of research has been
the claim of direct mental influence on the germination of seeds
or the growth of seedlings. The green-thumb theory, as the belief
in the direct mental influence of the gardener on his plants has
been called, was first
brought to test by comparing an experi-
mental section of a plot of germinating seeds with another section
serving as a control.
24
The reported success has been repeated
informally and under a variety of auspices, some of them religious;
but reliably controlled efforts have not as yet been conclusive. It
118 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
remains a good question whether in these tests the psychological
requirements for the use of PK have been adequately met and no
conclusions are in order until more thorough and exhaustive work
has been conducted.
If, now, we bring together the two lines of convergent explora-
tory data, what do we have? There are problems in medicine
that seem to call for the operation of some sort of direct action of
mind on the tissues or the invading organisms. Cures are reported
that might best be explained by the operation of a hypothetical
psychofcnetic factor. On the lines of research leading from the
original PK researches, which are conclusive, through explorations
with organic matter, where no conclusion can yet be drawn, the
way has been opened for investigations that should bring out
what facts there are concerning the extent of mental action along
the range of the health-disease continuum* Those who face the
stem realities of medical limitations in this vast area involving so
large a share of the illness of mankind will appreciate the need for
a forthright cautious
investigation.
VIZL Parapsychology and Religion
The doctrines of religion are based upon what are called spiritual
realities as distinguished from physical laws and operations. In
terms of methods as discussed in Chapter 2 the foundations of
religion rest
upon personal experience or spontaneous case mate-
rial Even on the most fundamental question in all
religions, that
of whether there is a valid basis of spiritual reality, the case from
the viewpoint of evidence rests upon individual testimony uncon-
firmed by experimental study.
The relation of
parapsychology to
religion, then, is
obviously a
very dose one. The establishment of psi as an extraphysical
capacity provides at least a limited experimental confirmation for
this elemental daim of all the religions. (The relation is not
altered by the fact that the need for this
experimental confirmation
has not been -widely recognized by religious leadership; but we
may recafl that the introduction of experimental methods in other
great practices and disciplines was similarly unsolicited.) If it is
correct to define
parapsychology as the science dealing with non-
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 119
physical personal agency, it is hard to see what legitimate prob-
lem or claim of religion would not, if it were brought to the point
of careful investigation, belong to the domain of that science. This
would make the relation of parapsychology to religion something
like that of physics to engineering or biology to medicine.
This close relation may be seen to be a natural or logical one.
Religious beliefs have grown up out of the experiences of the race
and especially those commonly regarded as miraculous or super-
natural. These more unexplainable occurrences would be ex-
pected to include a large portion of psi phenomena and the char-
acteristics of psi would thus tend to dominate the character and
coloration of religious thought It is natural therefore that not
only the divinities of the different religions but many of their
principal human representatives as well (prophets, priests, and
others) have been credited with extraphysical powers both to
perceive beyond the sensory range and to influence the world of
matter. These are, of course, the very capacities under investiga-
tion in parapsychology, these powers that have been characterized
as "spiritual" in the language of religion.
In general the history of the convergence of science and reli-
gion has been one in which existing doctrines of religion have been
compelled to give way to the contrary findings of science. Views
of the origin of the earth and of man, conceptions of the nature of
disease, and especially of mental disorder, have all been corrected
by the more reliable knowledge deriving from scientific inquiry.
Now, however, in its confirmation of the presence of a nonphysical
or spiritual element in personality it would seem that science has
for the first time made a positive contribution to the ground held
by religion. In refuting the counterclaim of the mechanistic
theory of man, the results even of the psi investigations already
made have undermined religion's most menacing opposition.
The Hypothesis of Spirit Survival
Thus far we have been speaking of very general relations be-
tween parapsychology and religion. By talcing a specific problem
of religion on which actual research has been done we can more
pointedly illustrate the overlap of the fields, though it should
be stated in advance that the p >blem is not yet solved. The ques-
m PARAPSYCHOLOGY
tion to be considered is that of whether there is a spiritual com-
ponent of the individual that survives the death of the body.
By way of background it should be recalled that the belief in
some fonn of spirit
survival is found in almost all religions.
What
is more, this belief has been supported by more than the mere
authority of dogma. Religious
literature and practice have gen-
erally presented the claim that the assumed discarnate agencies
can communicate with the living.
While in the more organized
and intellectual religious systems communication is held to be
limited to authorized representatives
of church or sect, in certain
developments of religious belief it is held that unauthorized in-
dividuals may, spontaneously or through special development,
acquire the capacity to intermediate between the discarnate world
and the living.
These individuals, mediums, have been supposed
to be able to hear the voices of spirits
and to see diem when others
cannot In a state of trance the medium has been believed by
spiritists
to allow his bodily organism to be an instrument of speech
or writing through which discarnate individuals can communicate.
While at first the modern religious movement known as Spirit-
ualism was an informal and somewhat disorganized one, its claims
of communication with the discarnate eventually attracted enough
scholarly attention to bring the problem under investigation. In-
terest in this problem was a large factor in the establishment of
the societies for psychical research; no existing academic or other
organization was prepared to take up the question. For the most
part the pioneer investigations made were conducted by scholars
from one or another of the established fields of study.
The question itself was simple and clear-cut: Can reliable evi-
dence be produced that a personality can manifest itself as still
actively existing after the death of its body? The evidence that
had invited scientific attention was chiefly that given through
mediumship. It became necessary, then, to study this claim of
mediumship under conditions which would, as far as possible,
screen out alternative interpretations, such as fraud on the part of
the medium, loose interpretation on the part of the sitter (the
person visiting the medium), and the use of cues or guiding in-
formation obtainable during the sessions. Procedures were
adopted to exclude to a reasonable degree the possibility that the
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 121
medium could by normal sensory or rational methods come by the
knowledge she communicated to the sitter. By locating the two
in different rooms and relying upon stenographic records of the
medium's utterances, the sitter could be located physically nearby
and still not hear the communications intended for him. Thus the
records could later be given to him along with the records of the
other sittings without his knowing which had been meant for him.
In this way any individual tendency toward a biased interpreta-
tion could be neutralized by the method of analysis. Also, the
question of chance coincidence could be dealt with by this proce-
dure by evaluating a sitter's responses to his own record (by
means of those he made on others) and applying a statistical
method to the scores obtained.
25*28
The countertheory that could not be ruled out, however, was
that of the medium's own psi capacity to acquire information
either telepathically from the sitter or from other sources by means
of clairvoyance. As a matter of fact, the amount of information
conveyed in ESP card tests by the more outstanding subjects
would exceed the knowledge contributed in weE-controfled ses-
sions with the medium in trance.
Thus far the investigation of mediumship by scientific method
has not got beyond this difficulty of interpretation. There is rea-
sonably good indication that knowledge has been obtained through
mediumistic utterances that would have to be considered para-
psychical in its origin. There is no way known as yet to test the
hypothesis that the source of the knowledge shown is discarnate.
The establishment of psi itself has naturally somewhat improved
the status of the hypothesis of spirit survival. The possibility
of
the survival of a spiritual factor in man seems the more reasonable
since the establishment of such a property in the living.
At the
same time, the psi investigations have to such a degree extended
the possibilities of what the medium could do through her own
powers that it is now not easy to see how anything which could
be communicated through the medium could be proved to have
been beyond her own capacities. In view of the fact that the
whole conception of discarnate existence, agency, and communi-
cation, is in itself based on the assumption of parapsychical powers,
we have to suppose that much the same kind and degree of such
122 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
capacities would be needed for spirit
communication as would be
inquired by the medium to get the infonnation or produce the
observed effects by means of her own powers.
It is in this state
of ambiguity that the question of spirit
survival has to be left for
the present
The researches in parapsychology have, on the whole, opened a
new approach to the problems of religion, problems which are of
surpassing importance to mankind. Whether the impulse comes
primarily from religionists
or scientists will not matter if the pur-
suit of careful inquiry to ,*hese great issues is
pressed with the vigor
and forthrightness they deserve. The issues are too great to be
left only for the preliminary
methods of inquiry which they have
had in the past Nothing but the most definitive procedures and
standards of research should be taken as adequate for conclusion
where questions of human destiny are at stake.
EC The Philosophy of fsi
Philosophy should probably be considered as bordering on all
branches of the domain of science. Its relation to a new science,
however, is likely to be especially close and involved. Fortunately
for parapsychology, some of the leading philosophers of the west-
ern world have taken an active interest in its
problems from the
very beginning of psi investigations in the days of Henry Sidgwick
and William James,
Where the actual investigations of parapsychology have most
definitely crossed the borders of academic philosophy is in the
investigation of the psychophysical problem. This is an issue of
long standing in the field of philosophy, variously characterized as
the mind-body problem or the question of the place of man in
nature. As we have indicated, the focus of parapsychology, too, is
on this question although it is not usually stated in that way. In
the investigation of phenomena of human personality that chal-
lenge physical explanation the inquiry is
naturally at the outset
one of whether any sort of nonphysical operations may be actually
and adequately demonstrated. If so, a scientific solution can be
found to the mind-body problem of philosophy.
If, then, in further parapsychological investigations the expert-
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 123
mental studies bring out clearly the active inter-relationships be-
tween the nonphysical function of psi and the physical environ-
ment with which its demonstration is concerned, a second advance
into the mind-body relation will have been made; that is to say
that not only have both physical and nonphysical operations been
shown to occur in the human individual, but they will also have
been demonstrated to be interactive. As it is, the manifestation
of psi through physical effects and records makes it necessary to
assume interaction of psi and physical processes.
In a word, science is closing in on a question on which much, of
the philosophic thought of the western world in recent centuries
has been expended. Thus far the results of the psi researches in
establishing a nonphysical interaction between subject and object
do not confirm any one of the specific philosophical solutions
(dualisms and monisms) that have been speculatively proposed.
The results indicate, as scientific conclusions do in such cases, a
comparative and complementary rather than an absolute distinc-
tion between the areas concerned (mind and matter). The con-
trast between the physical and nonphysical, while very important
and full of meaning for psychology and rekted fields, cannot be
regarded as more than a relative one. Some degree of psycho-
physical unity may at the same time be inferred in view of the
evidence of interaction.
But if
parapsychology as a science has removed one of the prob-
lems of philosophy,
it has produced some new ones too. It seems
reasonable to say that the philosophical challenge of the evidence
for precognition offers as baffling a question as any yet encountered
in human thought It is true many of the questions raised by
precognition (e.g.,
its clash with causality and with volitional
freedom) will have to be answered by the expansion of knowledge
gained through experimentation. However, in the search for such
knowledge a great deal will depend upon the rational analysis of
the problems raised and the intellectual adjustments that will have
to follow the acceptance of this newly discovered property of the
human mind.
It seems safe to say that many formulations of philosophical
theory based upon past conceptions of human nature wifl have
to be recast in the light of the new facts on the presence of a non-
124 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
physical element in the human makeup. There may be many
consequences to the ethical, political, and religious thinking of
men to follow from the altered picture of the nature of man which
the new facts provide. The border, then, between parapsychology
and philosophy wil probably be one involved in active
exchange
and mutual stimulation for a long and indefinite future.
References
"L LXNTOTT, G. A. M.: Some observations on so-called water divining.
Guy's Hosp. Gat., June 24 1933.
2- MCMAHAN, E. A.: A review of the evidence for dowsing. J. Paro-
psychol, 11:175-190, 1947.
3. BHXNE, Je B.: Some exploratory tests in dowsing. I Parapsvchol
14:278-286, 1950.
4 CADOBET, R. J.: The reliable application of ESP. I Parapsychol
19:203-227, 1955.
5. SHULMAN, K: A study of card-guessing in psychotic subjects.
L Pampsychol, 2:95-106, 1938.
6. BATES, K. E^ and NEWTON, M.: An experimental study of ESP
capacity in mental patients. /. Parapsychol, 15:271-277, 1951
7. WEST,D.J.: ESP tests with psychotics. /. Soc. Psychical Res. 36
619-623, 1952.
' *
a HTOCEHBET, B. M.: ESP tests with mental patients before and
after electroshock treatment /. Soc. Psychical Res., 37:259-265,
9. EBENBOT, J.: Psychiatric contributions to parapsychology- A
review. I Parapsychol, 13:247-262, 1949.
10. VAN BtJSSCHBACH, J. G.: An investigation of extrasensory percep-
tion in school children. / Parapsychol, 17:210-214 1953
11. VAN
^BUSSOT^CH,
J. G.: A further report on an investigation of
E5F in school children. /. Parapsychol, 19:73-81, 1955
12. VAN BXJSSCHBACH, J. G.: An investigation of ESP between teacher
and pupils in American schools. /. Parapsychol, 20:71-80 1956
13. ANBEHSON, M., and WHTIE, H: Teacher-pupil attitudes and clair^
voyance test results. /. Parapsychol, 20:141-157 1956
KELn^A-P: Aboriginal Men of High Degree. Sidney,' Austral-
asian, 1944.
15. HOSE, B.: A second report on psi experiments with Australian
aborigines. /. Parapsychol, 19:92-98, 1955.
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 125
15a. MATTHEWS, G. V. T.: Bird Navigation. London, Cambridge
Univ. Press, 1955.
16. SINNOTT, E. W.: Cett and Psyche. Chapel Hffl, Univ. North
Carolina Press, 1950.
17. RHINE, J. B.: Extrasensory Perception. Boston, Bruce Humphries,
1934.
18. AVEBBLL, R. L., and RHINE, J. B.: Effect of alcohol upon perform-
ance in PK tests. J. Parapsychol, 9:32-41, 1945.
19. BHUGMANS, H. J. F. W.: Some experiments in telepathy performed
in the Psychological Institute of the University of Groningen-
Compte-Rendu du Premier Congrds International des Recherches
Psychiques, 1921.
20. CADORCT, R. J.: The effect of amytal and dexedrine on ESP per-
formance. /. Parapsychol, 17:259-274, 1953.
21. SCHMETOI-ER, G. R.: Rorschach and ESP scores of patients suffer-
ing from cerebral concussions. J. Parapsychol, 16:80-89, 1952,
22. GERBER, R., and SCHMETOLER, G. R.: An investigation of relaxation
and of acceptance of the experimental situation as related to
ESP scores in maternity patients. /. Parapsychol, 21:47-57,
1957.
23. RICHMOND, N.: Two series of PK tests on paramecia. J. Soc.
Psychical Res., 37:577-587, 1952.
24. VASSE, P.: Experiences de germination de plantes. Rev. Mtta-
psychique, New Series No. 12, 223-225, 1950.
25. PKATT, J. G.: Towards a Method of Evaluating Mediumistic Ma-
terial. Boston, Boston Soc. Psychical Res., Bull. 23, 1936.
26. PRATT, J. G., and BIRGE, W. R.: Appraising verbal test material
in parapsychology. J. Parapsychol, 12:236-256, 1948.
Additional Reading
BARRETT, W. F., and BESTTSRMAN, T.: The Divining Rod, London,
Methuen, 1926.
BROAD, C. D.: Philosophical implications of foreknowledge. Froc.
Aristotelian Soc., 16:177-209, 1937.
CAHINCTON,W.: The quantitative study of trance personalities: New
series, I. Proc. Soc. Psychical Res., 45:223-251, 1939.
DEVEREUX, G. (ed.): Psychoanalysis and the Occult New York,
Internat. Univ. Press, 1953.
DTJCASSE, C. J.: The philosophical importance of "psychic phenomena
/. Philosophy, 51:810-823, 1954
126 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
EDITOBIAL: ESP, PK and the survival hypothesis. /. Parapsychol,
7:223-227, 1943.
EDITOBIAI-: Hypnosis and ESP. Parapsychol Butt., No. 24, 1951.
EDITOBIAL: Hypnotism, "graduate" of parapsychology. /. Para-
psycfcoL, 6:159-163, 1942.
EDITOHIAL: Parapsychology and psychiatry. /. Parapsychol, 13:143-
150, 1949.
EOTTOBIAL: The question of practical application of parapsychical
abilities. /. Parapsychol, 9:77-79, 1945,
EVANS, C. C., and OSBORN, E.: An experiment in the electro-encepha-
lography of mediumistic trance. /. Soc. Psychical Res., 36:588-596,
1952.
FBEUD, S.: Dreams and the occult, in New Introductory Lectures on
Psycho-analysis. New York, Norton, 1933.
GBELA, J. J.: Effect on ESP scoring of hypnotically induced attitudes.
I Parapsychol, 9:194-202, 1945.
KATY, E., and PAULSON, P.: A brief history of the divining rod in the
United States, I. /. Am. Soc. Psychical Res., 42:119-131, 1948; IL
I Amer. Soc. Psychical Res., 43:3-18, 1949.
KNOWLJSS, F. W.: Some investigations into psychic healing. /. Am.
Soc. Psychical Res., 48:21-26, 1954.
MtJNDLE, C. W. K.: Some philosophical perspectives for parapsy-
chology. /. Parapsychol, 16:257-272, 1952.
MUBPHY, G.: An outline of survival evidence. /. Am. Soc. Psychical
Res., 39:2-34, 1945.
MTTBPHY, G.: Difficulties confronting the survival hypothesis. /. Am.
Soc. Psychical Res., 39:67-94, 1945.
MOTFHY, G.: Field theory and survival J. Am. Soc. Psychical Res.,
39:181-209, 1945.
MUBPHY, G,: Spontaneous telepathy and the problem of survival.
J. Parapsychol, 7:50-60, 1943.
OTANI, S.: Relations of mental set and change of skin resistance to
ESP. J. Parapsychol, 19:164-170, 1955.
PBICE, BL H.: Survival and the idea of "another world." Proc. Soc.
Psychical Res., 50:1-25, 1953.
RHINE, J. B.: Hypnotic suggestion in PK tests. /. Parapsychol, 10:
126-140, 1946.
RHINE, J. B.: Telepathy and Human Personality (The Tenth F. W. H.
Myers Memorial Lecture) . London, Society for Psychical Research,
1950.
PSI RESEARCH AND OTHER RELATED FIELDS 127
Bmre, J. B.: The question of spirit survival /. Am. Soc. Psychical
Res., 43:43-38, 1949.
RICHMOND, K.: Experiments on the relief of pain. J. Soc. Psychical
Res., 33:194-207, 1946.
SALTMABSH, H. F.: Evidence of Personal Survival from Cross Corre-
spondences. London, Bell, 1938.
WAIXWOBK, S. C.: ESP experiments with simultaneous electro-en-
cephalographic recordings, /. Soc Psychical Res.y 36:697-701, 1952.
WEST, D, J. Psychical Research Today. London, Duckworth, 1954
WOODRUFF, J. L., and DALE, L. A.: ESP function and the psycho-
galvanic response. J. Am. Soc. Psychical Res., 46:62-65, 1952.
PART II
Testing Techniques
Chapter 7
Psychological Recommendationsfor Psi Testing
I. Eight Psychological Conditions Essential
JLx is wise in looking at the problem of conducting a psi test
properly to keep in mind that it is a purely psychological function
that is
being tested and to allow it
every possible psychological
consideration.
We may, in fact, define a proper psi test as one in which the
essential objective conditions are adequately provided and there-
after taken for granted, allowing first
emphasis to be placed on the
effectiveness of the test in demonstrating psL In short, it would
not be a psi test if it were not to go beyond the mere precautionary
requirements. Rather, it must first of all meet the psychological
conditions under which psi can operate. While the establishment
of the occurrence of psi was at issue it was difficult to press the
point of these intangible requirements. But now that that has
been accomplished, it would be unreasonable to consider as an
adequate test of psi anything less than one properly calculated to
evoke the ability to be tested as well as to measure it safely when
evoked.
II. Influence of the Experimenter
When we begin to think of psi testing in these more psycho-
logical terms we appreciate the failures and difficulties all the
more because we better understand them. Most conspicuous,
perhaps, among failures is the fact that some experimenters have
found themselves unable to conduct successful psi experiments;
that is, when they have gone through the standard testing routines
with their subjects they obtained only chance results. In most
131
132 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
such cases no thoroughgoing effort was made to test a wide range
of subjects, a variety of test conditions, and other possibilities that
might have led to fruitful results. But in a few instances efforts
have been made that were fairly extensive in amount of time and
energy expended, and still
comparatively little
beyond chance
data was obtained. The occurrence of such failures is one serious
fact to be considered in looking for the psychological requirements
of apsitest
Another major difficulty can be seen in the fact that some ex-
perimenters after a period of earlier success in obtaining extra-
chance results in psi experiments have proved less effective in their
kter efforts. In such instances something apparently has been
tost that was once a potent factor. The element most likely to
change under prolonged testing would seem to be the quality of
infectious enthusiasm that accompanies the initial discoveries of
the research worker. Those who never succeed at all may, of
course, be suspected of not ever having felt such contagious or
communicable interest as would help to create a favorable test
environment for their subjects.
Whatever the explanation and there is no need to wait for the
establishment of a theory of it it is
simply common sense for the
experimenter to find out whether he is
qualified before he goes far
in trying to commit himself to what is
necessarily an untried and
uncertain professional task In a more pioneering and amateurish
stage of
parapsychology, in ignorance of what the limiting factors
might be, it was pardonable to explore longer and more patiently
to see whether initial difficulties
might be overcome. Today, how-
ever, the stage has been reached at which it can be said definitely
that tie experimenter himself can be a limiting factor in the test
situation and, if he be, he had better find out by preliminary tests
of himself as experimenter. The only rule to follow is that of the
old motto: T>retty is as pretty does." A psi experimenter is one
who, under conditions that insure he is not fooling himself, can
get results. Al others should do something they can do well.
For the truly resolute research worker this may still be in para-
psychology, if he is
willing and able to find the right coworkers
or to turn to one of the many nontesting areas in which he can
work effectively.
PSYCHOLOGICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PSI TESTING 133
HI. The Psychological Needs of the Subject in Psi Tests
But, as the facts all too plainly show, the difficulties are by no
means limited to the experimenter himself. The subject, too, is an
uncertain quantity. It is
theoretically possible, at least, that a
given subject or a given group of subjects may have no ESP ability
at all. There is no way at present of absolutely knowing this, and
it is better at this stage to take the much more reasonable assump-
tion that everyone has potential ESP capacity and that there are
many circumstances that affect and may inhibit the exercise of it.
A great deal of evidence favors this
working hypothesis of ESP as
a species characteristic even though actual proof may still be
lacking. This working assumption allows for and even favors the
more realistic and useful view that subjects are made, not born,
and that something, indeed much, may be done, especially by the
experimenter himself, to develop or at least help to prepare the
subject for the investigation to be made with TinnT
The uncertain performance of subjects in psi tests is still the
major difficulty in parapsychology. Some subjects who come to
the test situation and at first show no evidence of psi capacity
under the conditions of the test may kter prove successful under
other conditions. Others may begin at a high level of scoring and
as the testing continues under the same external conditions may
lose their ability to give extrachance results. Such an outcome has
almost always occurred when a given subject has been investigated
long and continuously. High scoring subjects have always lost
their ability to score above chance. This is in reality a variation
of the formula that good subjects are not born but made, for it
shows that good subjects can be unmade too. Unfortunately, the
kind of testing that has characterized nearly all the outstanding
subjects in the history of parapsychology has resulted in the undo-
ing of the successful performer. It seems now that the testing
.itself as at present conducted is lethal to the psi function, or per-
haps we had better say to the capacity to demonstrate it
It would be folly, then, to ignore the very fluid or flexible
character of the function being tested in these various operations,
We are not dealing with a firmly-fixed capacity that is present in
some individuals and not in others; rather, we are dealing with
something that exists in the individual as a delicate potential In
134 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
some persons It lias been, at the time the experimenter encountered
them, much further developed and more accessible to test demon-
stration than in others. These would be the more promising sub-
jects. We know now, however, that the experimenter should
think how he will sustain the subject's interest over the period dur-
ing which he hopes to conduct his tests, how he will counteract the
inhibiting influence of the test experience itself. He knows first
that in monotonous test routines interest tends to wane quickly,
with some individuals more quickly than with others. His skill in
keeping his subjects freshly motivated will be very important. He
will be very fortunate if he finds in the subject an easily sustained,
long-standing interest and the qualities of personality (patience,
optimism, a capacity for devotion, etc. ) that will help frrm to keep
up the flame of his own zeal to achieve a high record in the experi-
ment Fortunately, there have been a few such subjects, and
doubtless many more can be found.
Subjects should be, of course, as far as possible selected first for
their maximum interest, availability, and adaptability to the
circumstances of the test, but then the experimenter's task lias only
fairly begun- The fine art of interpersonal relations has probably
never been better put to test than it has been in the development
of a finely poised sense of the challenge of a psi experiment. Here
the subject is stimulated to
bring out in measurable degree the
manifestation of an influence he cannot consciously command,
cannot even realistically feel is
operating, and yet must by an act
of venturesome faith believe might possibly exercise itself in the
tasktowhichheisccmmnttmghimseE AH this he must do with-
out feeling silly or futile! In afl the various subtle experiences of
the human rnind there are probably none more calculated to put
the individual on his mettle, to exercise a supremely delicate dis-
crimination, to sustain the most finely balanced judgment, and to
maintain throughout a restrained control of the numerous sensory,
mnemonic, and rational influences that tend to crowd the focus of
attention. This is the stage over which the experimenter must
maintain a directive influence in
helping the subject to achieve
Ms best, not just once, but over a long series of trials, through many
runs, and if
possible many sessions.
What wonder if it
eventually fails? It should not be surprising
PSYCHOLOGICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PSI TESTING 135
that both subject and experimenter eventually wear out the neces-
sary freshness of interest in the test which the demonstration of
psi requires.
IV. The Experimenter-Subject Relation in Psi Tests
Not only must the experimenter and the subject both be pre-
pared for the psi test, but the test and the experimental design it
represents should be planned with careful understanding. Gen-
erally speaking the shorter an experimental series can be made and
still meet its
requirements, the better for both experimenter and
subject The shorter a given contribution by a given subject can
be made, the better, for in long-drawn-out sessions and experi-
mental series some important element is used up or lost The
spontaneous interest with which the subject approaches the test
may decline considerably in the course of a single run. Although
something of its freshness may be recaptured in the beginning of
the succeeding run, still it is not likely ever to be quite as good
as at the start. Perhaps in time a new discovery wiH be made
showing how to reinspire the subject for later performances and
even bring about progressive improvement as the experiment con-
tinues, instead of the decline that now characterizes most experi-
ments. But for the present it is better to be prepared for a
potential decline and prepared at the same time to see how much
of the original spontaneity can be preserved and for how long a
time. One way to help this is to make the procedure as brief,
varied, and novel as the design of the experiment will allow. The
period between runs is
especially important During this time the
fliTTi should be to recapture and restore the original zest for the
experiment and thus counteract the effect of the monotony on the
subjects. The checking of the score sheets with the subject par-
ticipating can be made a diverting procedure, especially by point-
ing out interesting effects and making optimistic interpretations.
But any diversionary hunting for added value in the data should
be limited or it may tend to disperse the subject's main interest in
high scoring on the target
Perhaps the most important requirement of the experimenter is
to be able to preserve and frequently renew the original lively
136 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
impulse that brought the subject into the ESP experiment.
Ideafly, as already indicated, interest will grow with the good
results of the earlier tests, but such interest must never be taken
for granted. With this in mind plans directed at some terminal
point, some over-all outcome of the experiment as a whole, can be
helpful in sustaining the requisite initiative. Whenever the re-
search calls for the maintenance of high scoring over a prolonged
series, some far-viewed objective is essential to avert the normal
decline effect
No matter what the individual qualities of the experimeter and
the subject may be, there is always a mutual effect of the one upon
the other. It is now known that the sign of the deviation may be
affected by this interpersonal relation. The subject may be highly
motivated in the test even if he does not like the experimenter, but
the chances are good that dislike will produce a drop in his scoring
not merely to a chance average but even to a negative deviation
(from the chance mean). But unless the experiment is one in
which a negative deviation is
anticipated and prepared for, such
combinations are, of course, to be avoided.
It is
fairly obvious, then, that the development of a professional
job in tie investigation of psi calls for the development of a pro-
fession of psi investigation. In addition to the fundamental scien-
tific
requirements, there are certain arts and skills which cannot be
contributed entirely on a basis of knowledge. Experience and
personal techniques will have to be developed. Presumably they
can be developed in this area of relations as well as in any other
in which people try to influence others. It is a point of view
that must be stressed if
psi is
going to continue to be successfully
demonstrated.
It is also necessary to search for what might be called veins of
ready-made psi relations, to look for those existing social institu-
tions in which it
may be more natural than elsewhere for psi to
function without need of the buildup of special subject-experi-
menter relations. Recent work in the public schools has brought
such uniform success in tests in which the teacher serves as agent
with pupils as percipients that it
appears that such a vein has been
found in this social stratum of the teacher-pupil relation. It ap-
pears that in this relation a rapport that facilitates the operation
PSYCHOLOGICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PSI TESTING 137
of ESP may already be established. As stated, the outstand-
ing work of this nature is that of van Busschbach of Amsterdam.
The success achieved in this area encourages the hope that other
such strata may be found in which the area of possibilities
of
ready-made psi relations can be extended.
But still another similar need is evident today, that of the de-
velopment of an applied science of parapsychology. Toward this
end it is
important to turn to account all that has been learned
from the research of the past in the effort to increase the reliability
of psi under test conditions. It is time to concentrate attention on
the problem of extending the subject's (as well as the experi-
menters) control over the psi function. This should be sought
first in the discovery of more about the psychological conditions
affecting psi.
It would greatly help, too, if better investigational
devices could be acquired that would make the psi test more in-
formative as it
proceeds and permit the experimenter to be guided
by a currently registered analysis of the subject's type of per-
formance. This would require elaborate but not necessarily new
equipment. It would seem possible that a degree of control might
be exerted over the psi function that would make its
application
a
fully practical possibility.
Perhaps the slowly growing awareness of the tremendous prac-
tical applications
that are in store for psi may bring fresh interest
to this old problem of the practical
utilization of the function.
With the stage of psychological understanding already readied
concerning some of the major difficulties, and with the discovery
of such naturally favored psi relations as the schoolroom, for ex-
ample, can provide,
it may remain now only for a sufficiently
aroused interest to justify
a Ml program of testing aimed at a
practical
utilization of psi. Perhaps the step most needed is the
development of a course for the training of professional psi
investigators
for a larger scale of research operations.
Additional Reading
CADORET, R. J.: Effect of novelty in test conditions on ESP perform-
ance. J. Parapsychol, 16:192-203, 1952.
EIOTORIAL: Conditions affecting ESP. I Parapsychol, 2:155-159,
1938.
138 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
HUMPHBEY, B* M.: Handbook of Tests in Parapsychology. Durham,
N. C, Parapsydiology Laboratory, 1948, pp. 111-116.
PBATT, J. G., and PRICE, M.: The experimenter-subject relationship
in tests for ESP. /. Parapsychol, 2:84-94, 1938.
PKDCB, M., and RHINE, J. B.: The subject-experimenter relation in the
PKtest /. Parapsychol, 8:177-186, 1944
RHINE, J, B.: Conditions favoring success in psi tests. /. ParapsychoL,
12:58-75, 1948.
RHINE, J. B.: Extrasensory Perception. Boston, Bruce Humphries,
1934, pp. 16ft-168.
SCHEBER, W. B.: Spontaneity as a factor in ESP. /. ParapsychoL, 12:
126-147, 1948,
SMITH, B. M., and GIBSON, E* P.: Conditions affecting ESP perform-
ance. I Parapsychol, 5:58-56, 194L
THOXJLESS, R. EL: A report on an experiment in psychokinesis with
dice, and a discussion on psychological factors favoring success.
Proa Soc. Psychical Res., 49:107-130, 1951.
Chapters
Some Basic Psi Test Procedures
I. Introduction
HESE instructions follow the distinction between exploratory
and conclusive methods made in Chapter 2, Each of these two
broad stages of research naturally requires experimental pro-
cedures appropriate to it. This presentation of techniques takes
for granted a general acquaintance with Part I of the book.
Chapter 7 dealing with psychological conditions affecting psi is
of special importance. A glossary of terms is
given on pages 207-
210.
Four basic test procedures are described. They are the most
widely used and will cover most of the needs the readers of this
volume wiE likely have. These procedures are themselves com-
paratively easily adapted to a wider range of special situations.
The procedures given are for tests of clairvoyance, of general extra-
sensory perception, of precognition, and of psychokinesis. They
are described first in the form appropriate for exploratory experi-
ments. Later, in a separate section, precautions required for con-
clusive experimentation are added for all four types of tests,
The aim is to present test instructions that will enable the stu-
dent or professional worker to start his own experimenting in what-
ever general area of parapsychology or its application he may
choose. As the experimenter continues to the point at which he
may wish to know about other methods, he will already have
become acquainted with research literature in which they are to
be found.* He will have made the acquaintance of the Hum-
*E.g., The Journal of Parapsychology, published by the Duke University Press,
Durham, N. G.
139
140 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
phtey Handbook of Tests in Parapsychology^ In matters of
method and research design, we shall be glad to consult with
readers who desire assistance.
U. Exploratory Psi Tests
A. General Instructions
Much can be said here that applies in a general way to all the
test procedures and that would otherwise have to be repeated
over and over in the specific procedures to follow. For example,
the level of precaution assumed for exploratory tests is one in
which it is taken for granted that the experimenter merely wants
to be reasonably sure that in the tests the subject has done what
he was supposed to do. Precautions are taken against the more
likely errors or counterhypotheses, assuming normally careful
observation and reporting. It is all done on the assumption that
final conclusions wffl require a more cautious type of experiment.
The methods given here will serve the inquirer well enough to
justify his going on to the next, more safeguarded stage. Some
at the start will not want to take as much trouble as these pro-
cedures require. Others may want to begin (though they are
advised not to) further up the scale of precaution. In the various
clinical, educational, practical, and recreational applications of
psi tests the present level of controls will be generally adequate.
Test Cards, It will save trouble to begin with the standard
pack of ESP test cards (or a near-equivalent) which has long
been in use. ESP cards have been kept commercially available
for the convenience of workers in the field.* The pack consists
of twenty-five cards, normally with five of each of five geometric
designs: star, circle, square, cross, waves. It is referred to as
a closed pack when it has this even distribution of symbols or an
open pack if the cards have been arranged in random order
regardless of whether the numbers of symbols are equal.
No matter how well printed test cards of any land may be, they
t Published at Durham, N. O, by the Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke Uni-
versity, 1948.
*Tlie authorized distributes for the ESP test cards in this country are The Haines
House of Cards, Norwalk, Ohio, and their agents.
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 141
should not be considered free from identifying marks, even when
new. Even in exploratory tests of ESP the cards can just as well
be kept out of sight of the person being tested, unless the test
provides other safeguards against sensory cues (as some do).
It is easy to set up some kind of opaque screen to conceal the
cards in even the most informal test.
Shuffling. Ordinary shuffling methods will do sufficiently weE
for introductory experiments, but it is best to develop a simple
ritual of shuffling that insures that this
part of the procedure is
not overlooked. We suggest that a mrnimirm of four dovetail
shuffles be given the pack followed by a cut made with a knife
or thumbnaiL This shuffling should be done just before the test
is to begin (except, of course, in a precognition experiment) and
should be done behind whatever screen is set up to render the
pack invisible to the subject. The cards are kept by the experi-
menter (behind the screen) until the run through the pack is
finished.
Recording. The use of a prepared record sheet is
very advan-
tageous. A standard form of ESP record sheet is shown on p. 142.
Some will wish to obtain already prepared forms,* while others
will be able to mimeograph their own supply.
The subject himself can usually make the record of his calls or
"guesses." If any change has to be made it is better not to erase
the error but to draw a line through it and add the correction.
When the call record for a run is
completed, if the cards have
not already been recorded it will reduce the likelihood of error to
cover up the subject's call record while the card order is being
put down by the experimenter. Better still, the two records can
be made on different sheets; if not, the record sheet may be folded
and the call record turned down during the card recording. For
very preliminary testing this precaution is not to be taken seri-
ously. At a more careful stage, however, it will assure the experi-
menter that he is not allowing his attention to be distracted by the
symbol recorded in the adjoining column as he watches to see
whether a hit or a miss was made. When the recording is com-
pleted immediate checking for hits is desirable in general, and
*The Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke University will supply ESP record
sheets in pads of 50 sheets.
142 PAEAPSYCHOLOGY
Subject
ESP RECORD SHEET
Experiment!
General rnmtitinm
Use other side for remarks. Total score Avge. score
With SP cards use A for star, o for circte , L for squort, + for cross. for waves.
ESP record sheet for tests with writing or calling techniques.
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PIOCEDURES 143
recording, us* A for star, o for circle, L for square, 4- for cross, for waves
Subject's Nlflhe
r
^
Agent (ifi&SP or PT.)
srv
Method and
8(D9T49 MFB* ir TMI JALTIMORE SAIUBOOX
ESP record sheet for matching techniques.
144 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the subject may serve as an observer though only in that role.
The recording of all scores immediately in a notebook will insure
completeness in evaluating results.
Planning* If the experiment, no matter how exploratory, is
given a definite (and preferably recorded) plan, there are certain
advantages in the interpretation of results; for example, it is ex-
tremely-important in making any sort of interpretation to know
that all of the data are taken into account This involves prepar-
ing in advance a paragraph of description of what is to be under-
taken, how many runs are considered a suitable length for the
experiment, and roughly what the objective and the experimental
conditions are. If any special type of statistical evaluation is to
be used on the results it should be included in the plan* The ex-
plorer, of course, need not bind himself to these precautions; in
fact, he will need to decide at what stage of his procedural ad-
vance they are worth the trouble. But if he has them in mind they
will likely come into use earlier.
Evaluating Results. Tables have been provided at the back of
the book for the evaluation of most of the types of test results
likely to be obtained from the procedures described. With each
table instructions for its use are given. Some of the tables are in-
tended to meet the beginning needs of inexperienced workers,
and their use will not require any special training in statistical
method. These particular tables will, of course, not be perfectly
adapted to all the needs of the exploratory research worker, but
as he gains experience and interest in the use of the methods, he
will want to tike advantage of Chapter 9 on statistical methods
and thereby acquire the knowledge necessary to evaluate his own
results independently with the aid of the other tables presented.
The use of the evaluation tables makes certain assumptions that
are general: First, that all of the test data of a project are in-
duded. If only a certain group of runs or a selected section of the
whole experiment were to be considered by itself, the value given
in a table would be misleading. It is assumed, too, that the sub-
ject had only one call (or in PK one throw) per trial and that, if
the subject was told of his success or failure before the end of the
run, the cards were reshuffled before the next trial. The tables,
likewise, are based on the assumption that it was decided in ad-
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 145
vance of how many runs die experiment would consist. If this
was not done, a favorable stopping place might be chosen and a
statistical correction would be needed for the value given in the
tables. The tables also assume that the type of statistical analysis
was planned in advance of the experiment, or at least before the
data were examined in a manner that might conceivably have in-
dicated the effect to be evaluated. Whenever the plan of the
experiment leaves any leeway in the manner of analyzing the re-
sults, it is
always necessary to choose the more conservative evalua-
tion or to make an appropriate correction in the probability value.
Many explorers will want to know what the shortest satisfactory
test series might be that would still allow a safe use of the tables.
For very preliminary purposes a four-run test
totaling 100 trials
will be safe enough. For the testing of an individual's psi ca-
pacity or the exploring of a new claim or hypothesis a 20-ran or
500-trial minimum would be a reasonable line to draw. It is
better not to plan longer experimental series, since interest tends
to wane with monotonous repetition. Short series with many in-
novations, even minor ones, are better and are statistically
acceptable.
Preparation of Subject. In any psi test it is
important that the
subject not only understand what the test is for and what his part
in it is to be, but he needs to be familiarized with the procedure
in order that its
novelty will not distract him. If cards are to be
used, he should be allowed to see them before he begins and even
make a few informal, off-the-record trials in order that the
various symbols will come easily to mind. The names of the
symbols should be used often enough for him to be able to recall
them without effort. If the subject is to record his own calls, he
should have the simplified way of recording made known to him,
so that the recording will proceed smoothly.
Unless the subject has already developed an idea of the way he
should proceed, .what mental device he should try to use in the
test, it is best to talk with him briefly and informally about the
matter to insure that he has no confusion over what he should do.
It should be explained to him, if necessary, that it would not be
of any use to try to keep track of the symbols already called or to
use any land of logical system. The suggestion might be made,
146 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
if it seems necessary, that the subject simply try to allow all the
symbols equal access to the center of attention and in each trial
he should call the symbol that seems to stand out most vividly,
using his visual imagery to recall them, or, if he prefers, looking
at a set of the five symbols or a picture of them as he proceeds.
If any such suggestions are offered, care must be taken not to
make the subject self-conscious about the test.
Above all, the subject should be encouraged to work out his own
way of making his calls and a choice of test procedures may
profitably be offered him as well. Minor variations allowable
within the scope of the procedure introduced should be made to
help to "fit the subject to the test" Making clear the elements of
the procedure will bring out also whether the subject is
mentally
prepared for the test, whether he has proper interest, good motiva-
tion, and freedom from the many possible inhibiting conditions
that may be associated with the first
adjustment to a new situa-
tion. The whole concept of the psi
test takes for granted that the
essential psychological conditions are adequately provided.
B. ESP Tests: 1. Clairvoyance
The BT Test.
9
In this test the subject tries to identify the cards
as, one by one, the experimenter takes the top card from the in-
verted pack and holds it in a designated position. The experi-
menter does not look at the symbol and after the subject makes
his choice the card is
put face down in another position. If, as
should always be done, some kind of opaque screen is used, the
experimenter may hold the card against the screen until the sub-
ject makes his response. The subject may either make his calls
orally or if a low screen is used he may point to one of the five
symbols (e.g., as printed on the back of the box); or, again, he
may keep his own written record.
Usually the test proceeds through the twenty-five cards without
any attempt to check on the success of the subject, but in more
introductory tests it
may be desirable to stop after every five trials
*
BT is now a widely known tenn for this technique. It originally meant "broken
technique* as compared to DT or "down through" the unbroken pack. "Basic
technique*" would be a better designation today for it is an elementary type of
procedure.
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 147
( or any other part of the total run )
. If
anything less than the full
run is made the stopping point, the whole pack should be re-
shuffled before the test is resumed. If a subject appears to be
working hard on each trial, it is wise to break up the run into
sections. At the completion of the run (or other stopping place)
the experimenter should turn the pack over and record the card
order, taking whatever precautions the stage of his inquiry re-
quires.
Then follows the checking for hits, at which point it is a
good plan to invite the subject to watch to insure accuracy. By
placing the two columns of the records side by side (the call
column and the card column) the number of hits can easily be
scored and should be marked on the record sheet with the total
score at the bottom.
The test is essentially the same whether the standard ESP test
symbols are used or whether five colors, five numbers, or some
other kind of targets should be used. The test may also be done
with a wide range of targets, such as the ten digits,
to 9, or the
twelve units of the clock face. More elaborate safeguards are
described on p. 157. A rating table for the evaluation of scores
obtained from standard ESP test-csrd runs is
given on p. 191.
The DT Test. This technique for testing clairvoyance is the
same as BT except for the fact that after the experimenter has
shuffled and cut die pack, he places it face down and does not do
anything more to it until the subject has completed the twenty-five
calls. (The DT test may, of course, also be done in sections of
five trials.) Provided tie experimenter puts the pack of cards
back in the box after the shuffling and before bringing it into the
subject's range of vision, there is no need to use a screen in the DT
test. The DT test also allows the subject to proceed at his own
rate of speed.
Matching Techniques. These are clairvoyance tests in which
the subject indicates his impression of a target card by matching
it
against one of a set of key cards lying in a row in front of him.
Different degrees of precaution are allowable; for instance, as a
very preliminary form of matching test, the five key cards are
turned face up. The subject in this open matching test is handed
the pack of cards already shuffled and it is
kept in the inverted
position while he distributes the cards from the top, laying them
148 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Blind Matching. Upper: Subject sorting cards against concealed key cards
Lower: The check-up.
one by one face-down in piles opposite the key cards. He is of
course trying to place each card of the pack against the key card
it matches. It should be explained to him that he does not have
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDUBES 149
to make the piles even, and that he should not fall into a rhythm
or pattern. The subject should keep his eyes focused upon the
key cards rather than upon the backs of the cards in his liands. At
the end of the run the experimenter turns over each pile of cards,
sorts out the hits, and adds up and records the score.
The blind matching test is a better controlled procedure. In
this the five key cards, one of each symbol, are (unseen by the
subject) put in opaque envelopes and the five
envelopes, after be-
ing shuffled so that the order is not known, are laid out in a row
on the table. The subject proceeds with the shuffled pack of cards
held face down in the same way as in the open matching test. In
this case he is
matching the inverted card in the pack against the
concealed card in the envelope, with no sensory contact with
either of the two symbols he is
trying to match against each
other.
The screened touch-matching technique is the most widely used
and most satisfactory matching test, but it
requires a special screen
(
similar to that shown facing page 161 ) . This type of screen ( ap-
proximately 18" high by 24" in length) can, however, easily be
improvised from a large carton; at the bottom an opening about
21
/*" high and from 12" to 15" in length is needed. The five key
cards are laid in this opening so that they can be seen by the ex-
perimenter on one side of the screen and by the subject on the
other. Another low screen about 3" high should be set up on the
experimenter's side, back a little from the main screen, to prevent
the subject from getting any reflected image or a direct glimpse
of the card through the opening. In this case the experimenter
holds the pack of cards, which he has shuffled behind the screen.
The subject is given a pencil or other pointer to use in indicating
which one of the key cards he thinks will match the top card in
the pack in the experimenter's hand. As soon as he sees the
pointer over a key card the experimenter lays the top card of the
pack (still inverted) down opposite that key, and the subject
points to the next one, proceeding at his own rate of speed.
In preliminary tests it will satisfy many explorers merely to sort
out in each pile the cards that match the key card and add up the
total score for the run. As the instructions in the later section of
this chapter will indicate (p. 159) there are many added pre-
!5Q PARAPSYCHOLOGY
cautions that may be taken step by step to rule out possibilities
of esror of one kind or another. At a certain stage of advance the
experimenter will wish to record on conveniently prepared record
sheets the way the cards are distributed.
C. ESP Tests: 2. General Extrasensory Perception or GESP
The GESP test (or telepathy-card test) is a procedure suitable
for subjects who believe that for them psi operates best as te-
lepathy. It is the BT technique with the difference that the ex-
perimenter or another person acting as sender looks at the card
during the trial (instead of keeping it face down) . Even in the
most preliminary type of tests it is advisable to screen not only
the cards but the experimenter himself from the subject's view.
In an infonnal beginning the subject may be seated in a mirrorless
corner of the room with his back to the experimenter, but an
opaque screen sufficient to conceal the experimenter from view is
a better provision- It is still better to use two adjoining rooms
with the two participants on opposite sides of the door or wall.
Even if the testing is
begun with both participants in the same
room the two-room arrangement is a desirable advance as soon as
success warrants a change.
It is necessary for the subject to be given only one trial for each
target card and for the experimenter to make no remark or indi-
cation of any kind once he has picked up the card for the next
trial The subject is the one who should indicate (by a word or
a tap on die wall) when the next trial is to begin. While it is a
more careful procedure to have the subject silently record his own
responses (and without the experimenter being able to see the
record as tie test proceeds) a beginning can safely be made in
which the subject merely calls his choice aloud and the experi-
menter keeps the record. (In such a case, it is better to leave the
card recording until after the run.) In more careful procedures
the siAject records his calls and the experimenter records the
cards, both independently, and there are thus two separate rec-
ords which at the end of the ran the two can check together.
With this procedure, either with a good screen or with die two-
room arrangement, the experimenter may be reasonably sure he
is not allowing sensory cues to be given or recording errors to
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 151
occur. For the next stage of precaution lie will want to consult
the more crucial procedures on pp. 15&-161.
D. ESP Test: 3. Precognition
A simple precognition test is needed to initiate subjects who
have difficulty accepting the possibility that ESP may reach into
the future. The subject may be instructed to predict ( and re-
cord) what he thinks the order of a given pack of cards will be
when it is next shuffled and cut During the first
stages the experi-
menter himself may do this shuffling and cutting. It is an advance
on this method, then, to take the pack to another individual who
does not know about the test and merely ask hfm to shuffle and
cut die pack ( always using a knife or thumbnail cut) . Then with
continued success die subject is
encouraged to advance to a further
precautionary stage, and at this point he may be instructed to put
down in the call column a set of symbols which he anticipates wiH
match the target symbols to be recorded in the adjoining column
when the randomized target order has been selected. This target
selection can be designated as taking place immediately after the
run or at any time in the future the experimenter desires. Iten,
after the run or series of runs of subject's calls have been recorded,
the following exploratory procedure would give a reasonably good
assurance that only precognition could produce nonchance re-
sults.
Randomizing Procedure. The procedure should, of course, be
worked out in advance and followed each time in a literal, routine
way. A pair of dice is thrown twice and the faces recorded. One
die is marked in advance as giving the left digit and the other the
right. Then, using the local telephone directory, let the first
pair
of numbers indicate the page (between 11 and 66) and the second
pair the number of names to count off before beginning on that
page. Then, with the beginning point indicated, the rule would
be to choose the second column of numbers from the right Also,
let it be agreed that numbers 1 and 6 will be circle, 2 and 7 cross,
3 and 8 waves, 4 and 9 square, 5 and star. Then by going down
the column and taking the first
twenty-five numbers and convert-
ing them to symbols, the target order would be obtained for the
152 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
festnm. Going on to the next twenty-five would give the target
order for the second ran and so on*
This provides an easy method of testing for precognition with-
out encumbering the experimenter with the complicated pro-
cedure required for a more crucial test as described on pp. 162-163
of this chapter.
E. PK Test: L With Face Targets
Possibly the most simple adequate test of PK is the method of
throwing dice and using a selected face as target. For beginning
subjects a pair of dice will serve better than a larger number. The
dice need not be of the so-called "perfect" classification, although
if obtainable they should at least be of the inlaid variety, which
leaves no cavities where the spots are marked. It should be
settled from the beginning that a fixed order of target faces will
be foEowed, and we recommend the standard plan of beginning
with one and following through in the regular sequence to six.
The manner of throwing or releasing the dice is
important, al-
though it is less important if the subject is
obviously a person
unskilled in dice games. For an informal beginning the dice may
be thrown from a cup or substitute container, but with smooth
surfaces these are littie better than hand throwing. Cups with
properly roughened interior can be made, and as the exploring
becomes more serious they should be introduced.
There is, however, no reason why the tests for PK should not
from the beginning use a simple device for gravity action such as
the following: A board one foot in width and three feet long is
about aH the equipment that is needed. With two nails driven
in lightly a few inches apart at one end and a ruler laid across
the nails, a shelf can be made for the dice as the board is inclined
at the proper angle against the wall (let us say at about 45 de-
grees). The dice are laid on the ruler opposite pencil markings
on the board. Thai the subject can, when he is
ready, simply lift
the ruler and allow the dice to roll down the inclined board onto
the surface prepared for them either on the floor or, more con-
veniently, on a blanketed table top with side walls to retain the
dice. Then, with the understanding that the dice are to be picked
up as they fall and placed on the ruler with the same faces upper-
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 153
most, the apparatus is
ready. The surface of the board can be
improved by the addition of a piece of rubber matting.
It is
important to have a definite plan for the experiment. The
standard run consists of twenty-four die throws. Two dice re-
leased twelve times make a run. It should be determined in ad-
vance how many runs will be done with the one-face before
changing to the two-face, and so on. If a very short test session
is desired, one run for each target face will be sufficient. Or the
plan of the experiment may be laid down for six or twelve or more
runs for a given face at one session and for the same number of
runs on the other faces at succeeding sessions.
There are a few rules each experimenter will wish to follow.
One is to avoid the mistake of starting with a lucky throw; this is
done best by saying in advance when the next release is on the
record. Again, every throw must be put on the record unless con-
ditions specified in advance have interfered; for instance, if one
die rolls off the table or lands in a cocked position against the
sidewall, the trial should be repeated (that is, with both dice).
For exploratory purposes the experimenter's record alone will be
sufficient. It adds something to the accuracy of recording, how-
ever, for the experimenter quietly to name the faces as he records,
unless by so doing he distracts the subject
There are many varieties of PK tests possible with dice, and, of
course, other objects too may be used, though they are less con-
venient. But the use of dice and the single target face are un-
doubtedly best for a beginning.
Table II (p. 192) indicates the significance of PK scores with
die faces as targets. More advanced precautions are described in
a later section (pp. 164-167).
F. PK Tests: 2. Placement Method
For the placement test of PK a more tightly constructed ap-
paratus is needed, though it need not be an expensive one. Even
for exploratory purposes the apparatus should be set upon a solid
table and no one should be allowed to come into contact with the
table or apparatus except to pick up the dice (or other objects)
and return them to the release point A blanketed table top with
a fixed retaining wall is needed, and above it a release point and
154 PAKAPSYCHOLOGY
slope over which the dice are to roll. All this should be attached
to the table or wall in such a way that the whole apparatus is a
stable unit The release point and slope should be so adjusted
that the dice are, in falling,
well distributed over the area of the
table top. A micUine should be marked off longitudinally, divid-
ing the area into a left half and a right.
If this dividing line is
marked by a cord or wire drawn tight on the surface it will leave
no doubt as to which side of the line a die is on when it falls on
the line.
For preliminary exploration the dice may be released by the
frictionless removal of a barrier such as the ruler described in the
preceding method, freeing the dice to the pull of gravity. Or a
trap can be operated by a string working through a fixed point and
allowing only a uniform impulse (e.g.,
from the dropping of a
weight in the same way each time) for pulling the string. It will
be advisable, however, for the explorer to introduce at an early
stage the smoother operation of an electrically-released trapdoor.
This can be purchased all ready to be attached to the apparatus.
It should be operated by a pushbutton on a cord held without
tension so that the apparatus can be in no way mechanically in-
fluenced by the subject's release of the dice. The starting box
should be built so that the dice all have to slide out through the
same V-shaped trough when the trapdoor at the lower end is
opened.
When the apparatus is
ready and the subject is
prepared for the
task, he should be consulted (after preliminary trials) as to how
many dice he would like to release at a time. In this type of test
it is
probably better to use more than two, though perhaps not
more than ten. When that point is settled and the extent of the
experiment decided, five releases should be made for the left side
and then five for the right This may be followed by a return to
the left unless the experimenter has some reason for a different
order of scheduling. The task of the subject is, of course, to
v
try
to exert a direct mental influence upon the fall of the cubes so as
to make them roll into the target section. The scoring in a place-
ment test is based on the difference of the total successes between
the two sides, target and nontarget Accordingly, the left and
right side must be alternated as target in some regular way and
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 155
kept entirely even. The general practice has been to use one
side as target for 5 times and then an equal number for the other
side.
While cubes have been most often used, other objects may be
introduced, especially spherical objects; but the more successful
work has been done thus far with cubes.
Placement test of psychokinesis (PK).
The expectation, if the table and apparatus were perfectly
balanced, would be 50 per cent on the target side by chance alone,
but because of the many irregularities to be expected the only
reliable measure would be the difference between the target side
(which was equally represented by the left and the right) and the
nontarget side. These should on the theory of chance be equal.
By turning to Table III on page 193, results from placement tests
may be evaluated. Again, in a later section, the more advanced
precautions are to be found (pp. 164-167).
156 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
HI. Conclusive Test Methods
A. General Viewpoint
Whereas the methods of the preceding section were cast on a
level aimed only to enable the explorer to satisfy himself as to his
findings, in the present section methods are added that, accom-
panied by significant results, will allow definite conclusions to be
drawn with all reasonable alternatives eliminated. The scope in-
cluded in these procedures covers the range of errors such as
sensory cues, recording and checking errors, evaluative and in-
terpretative mistakes on the part of research workers plus even
the possibilities
of deceptive practice on the part of the subjects.
This coverage will not be extended to the delicate question of
probity in the investigators themselves. In scientific research
such questions are answered in due time by independent confir-
mation of the original findings.
Advance Record of Design. A proposed experiment should be
recorded fully and clearly enough so that all the main features
are decided from the start.
Among these is the research question
or questions to be answered, the method to be followed, the num-
ber of trials to be made, the subjects to be used, the test condi-
tions, and the evaluative procedures to be applied to the data.
These are best worked out either on the basis of previous experi-
ments or with the help of the pilot test method described in
Chapter 2. The design of the experiment should be such that if
significant results are obtained only one conclusion can properly
be drawn regarding each question raised.
Two-experimenter Plan. Both in ESP and PK tests it is diffi-
cult to conduct conclusive experiments without two research
workers, either with both actively engaged in the testing or at
least with one actively at work and another conveniently available
in the background. The two-experimenter plan calls for the
sharing of the essential responsibility for test
accuracy in such a
way that errors by one experimenter alone could not possibly
produce significant results. It should be so that nothing short of
a deliberate joint effort on the part of both experimenters could
allow or produce errors to affect the results in a significant direc-
tion and degree. If, for example, there are records of cards and
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 157
of calls to be made, each experimenter can be made responsible
for one of these; and by making duplicates and exchanging them,
each will have an independent set of the whole record for indi-
vidual checking and evaluation.
Target Order. For general purposes the methodical shuffling
of cards with a minimum of four dovetail shuffles and a knife cut
sufficiently approximates a random distribution for ESP test pur-
poses. For certain experiments the pack of cards (if cards are to
be used) can be made up on the basis of random number tables,*
letting certain numbers represent specific symbols. Any fixed
code would do, but the one given on p.
151 has been adopted as
standard in the Parapsychology Laboratory; it is a great con-
venience in rechecking data if a uniform code is used. In other
experiments the cards themselves are not needed, and a recorded
target order, whether of the standard ESP symbols or some other
set of targets, can be taken from random number tables in the
same way.
B. ESP Tests: 1. Clairvoyance
The BT Test. Only a few additions to the exploratory BT test
are needed to make it conclusive. If the subject is asked to record
his own calls, the record should be made in duplicate by the use
of a carbon sheet. The screen used to keep the cards invisible to
the subject should be large enough to screen his recording from
the view of the experimenter on die opposite side. At the end of
the run the experimenter, too, makes his card record in duplicate
and before any checking is done the subject and experimenter
both turn copies of their records over to the second experimenter.
(The latter is either in the room or nearby. Provision can even
be made for the sealing and mailing of these records to the second
experimenter or for their deposit in locked boxes he may provide
for the purpose, but it is better to have the second experimenter
on the scene if
possible. )
* A suitable table is that of Kendall and Smith, Tables of Random Sampling
Numbers, published by Cambridge University Press and priced at five shillings
($0.70).
158 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
If the subject is5 for some reason, not asked to record his own
calls, the second experimenter should write them. If all the
participants
of the test are in the same room and the subject makes
his responses orally, it is necessary that the card order have been
recorded in advance. The conclusive BT test can be carried
out best with the use of different rooms and a signaling system.
Adjoining rooms will provide sufficient safeguards, since the ex-
perimenter does not look at the faces of the cards. The two
experimenters,
after checking the records independently, should
enter all scores in a permanent notebook and should carry out
all analyses and computations independently as well.
The DT Test* A conclusive form of this test can be taken over
from the instructions just given for tie BT method. The packs of
cards (or columns of target symbols will do as well) should be
prepared outside of the room in which the subject is
being tested
and they should be properly enclosed before being brought into
the experimental room. Since the test is to be a clairvoyance test,
the experimenter using a target pack or column of symbols must
not know the order. One experimenter in the room is
enough, and
it is better for die psychological effect not to have idle observers
sitting around during the test. If the second experimenter pre-
pared and recorded the targets in an adjoining room, he should
remain there with duplicate records of the targets in his posses-
sion- Then either the subject or the first
experimenter (which-
ever one does the recording of the subject's calls )
can conveniently
torn over to him the carbon of the subject's call record. Thus
each experimenter will have an independent set of both calls and
cards and separate score records of the entire experiment.
Again, independent checking and evaluation should be carried
through.
The DT method with slight modifications lends itself well to
correspondence tests. (The first experimenter makes copies of
the target records, or duplicate records of the cards if cards are
to be sent, before sending them out. ) Either the pack of cards or
the original sheet of target symbols is sealed with special care
and sent by this experimenter to the local representative (let us
say a teacher) who is to collect the subject's call records. The
envelopes sent to this representative for the return of the subject's
call records is addressed to the other experimenter, who shall
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 159
also receive the unopened packs or target sheets. Duplicates of
the subject's call records are, on receipt by the second experi-
menter, turned over at once to the first, leaving each experimenter
with a set of the target and call records. The local representative
should be instructed not to allow the sealed targets out of her
sight during the test performance.
Matching Techniques. For a conclusive test of blind matching
one experimenter prepares the key cards, preferably enclosing
them in opaque envelopes. The other experimenter, who is to
remain present throughout the test, presents the subject with
the shuffled and cut pack of cards, and the latter then proceeds
to distribute these one by one opposite the key cards, keeping
them inverted throughout. At the end of the run the experi-
menter turns over the piles of target cards and records them. He
takes the carbon of this record to the second experimenter (who
may be waiting in an adjoining room) and receives from him a
copy of the order of the key cards. Each experimenter can thus
check on the number of successes at his convenience and keep his
own permanent record of the scores. The subject can also be
shown the key cards and see the number of hits made.
The screened touch-matching test proceeds in much the same
way in its more conclusive form. The first
experimenter, who
handles the pack of cards on the opposite side of the screen from
the subject, should not be allowed to see the order of the key
cards; these are clipped or otherwise attached to the subject's side
of the screen. The arrangement of the key cards is under the care
of the second experimenter who reshuffles their order before each
run and then records the key card order in duplicate (in reverse,
as they would appear from the second experimenter s side of the
screen) before the run is completed. At the end of the run the
first
experimenter turns over the piles of target cards and records
them in duplicate. After exchanging carbons with the other
experimenter, the screen may be laid down and the subject
allowed to do his own checking. Each of the two experimenters
has a complete set of records for keeping independent scores.
C. ESP Tests: 2. GESP
In all GESP tests for conclusive work the target order needs to
be recorded in advance and the record as well as the cards, of
160 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Screened Touch-Matching test of ESP. Upper; The test in progress.
Lower: The check-up.
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 161
course, carefully guarded. In this, as in other points of precaution,
if one of the experimenters is to act as agent or sender, a simpler
arrangement is
possible. But if both sender and receiver are
"subjects" and are to be considered independent of the experi-
mental team, the possibility of a wide range of sensory means of
communication exists and would have to be eliminated by provid-
ing adequate conditions. It is difficult to do this with short
distances between the two participants because of the possibility
of utilizing (for example) tiny concealed electronic devices for
signaling. If, however, one of the experimenters serves as sender
(or receiver) the use of adjoining rooms with closed doors will
be sufficient safeguard against sensory cues. The necessary
signaling should in all cases come from the subject or receiver
who indicates when he is
ready for the next trial. No signaling
or communication from the sender is allowable after the run has
begun.
The receiver may prefer to record his own calls and may do
better in isolation. Or the second experimenter may record the
subject's calls. In the event he is not needed as recorder, the
second experimenter should remain in such a location (e.g.,
in
an intermediate room or hallway) that he can at all times be sure
the receiver is not out of position.
Before the test the target
series should have been recorded in duplicate and a copy should
be in the possession of each experimenter. Following the com-
pletion of the subject's record in duplicate, these two copies are
also divided between the two experimenters. Again the com-
plete record is held by each, and the independent handling of the
data from that point on is an insurance against errors .of im-
portance.
The possibilities
of subject trickery are so great and varied that
in a GESP test involving a sender and receiver who are not a part
of the experimental team, and who may have developed a signal-
ling system, a special research design would be needed. It would
not be possible to lay down in advance a set of rules that could
apply to all possibilities
in so uncertain a situation. But from
the research point of view it would be a situation to be avoided,
if
possible, by using another type of ESP test.
162 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
D. ESP Tests 3. Preeognition
Tests for precognition can easily be guarded against the ordi-
nary types of error, Wlien the subject's record sheets are com-
pleted in duplicate, these are held by one experimenter until the
target records are made out by the other. When these are
prepared the two experimenters exchange copies and the experi-
ment is at all times on a safe basis of independent checking, com-
putation, and score filing.
The main difficulty of finding a conclusive test of precognition
has been the problem of making sure of a truly random selection
of targets. The following procedure may, we believe, be followed
with the confidence that no alternative known to science today
offers a serious challenge to the method. The procedure should
be in the hands of a second experimenter who has not thus far
seen the subject's record sheets. The first
experimenter, who has
them in his possession, may be present as a witness or an assistant
may be substituted as an observer during the various steps in the
procedure.
Three special ten-faced dice are needed as well as a calculat-
ing machine. The experimenter throws the three dice, each of
which is
distinguishable by some mark or color. The faces turned
up are recorded in the same order each timefor example: red,
white, blue. The three dice are thrown four times, thus giving
four three-digit numbers. These numbers are then multiplied
together in a calculating machine. The first ten digits of the
product, counting from tie right, are multiplied by a number con-
sisting of the same digits read in reverse order. The machine is
then used to extract the square root of the ten left-hand digits of
this product. The square root is recorded in duplicate and kept
by both experimenters.
The square root is used to pick a starting place in a random
number table. For the Kendall and Smith table, for example, the
kst two digits on the right indicate which of the 100 thousand-
digit groups to take; the fifth, fourth, and third digits are divided
by 40, the number of columns on the page, and the remainder
taken to indicate the column; and the seventh and sixth digits are
divided by 25, the number of digits in the column, and the re-
mainder taken to indicate the digit in the column to be used for
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 163
the first
target. This is determined by the prearranged (and
recorded) number-symbol code. For the other targets the num-
bers from the table should be read in the order suggested by the
authors of the random number table ( or by a system recorded at
the start) until a full set of targets is made up.
Simplifications of this complex procedure might be worked out
that would be satisfactory. The essential point is to have rigid
rules that still allow for such variations as are introduced by the
throw of the dice. Then, to eliminate the possible alternative
of psychokinesis, it is
necessary to have a complicated mechanical
calculation that is
beyond the possibility of the human mind.
(Computations by means of logarithm and root tables might be
substituted for the use of the machine if one is not available.
And cutting three decks of number cards would do instead of the
dice if
they are hard to locate.) It may be important not to
burden the subject with a full explanation of how the targets will
be selected but to tell him only that they will be random targets
to be found at a later time. But if he is told that the target series
will be recorded in a column adjoining the call record or will be
located in some other specific place at a given time, the experi-
mental operation should (at least until we know more about the
ability) conform to this understanding.
While the mere technical requirements for a conclusive test of
precognition are high, in striving to achieve them the experi-
menter must not neglect the even more important psychological
requirements. Unless the subject is
properly prepared for a test
in precognition, the most careful attention to procedural details
is so much wasted effort The research done heretofore indicates
that the motivation required for a successful precognition test may
be much more difficult to bring about than that for ordinary ESP.
An experimenter should tackle the precognition problem only if
he appreciates this fact and still feels that the challenge and im-
portance of this research area make it the one into which he wants
to venture. At the present stage of the research, it is desirable
always to incorporate into the experiment at least a small section
of simple clairvoyance tests for purposes of comparison with the
results of the precognition trials.
164 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Eo PK Test Procedures
Both in the use of faces as targets and in placement methods
conclusive experiments require a two-experimenter plan unless a
system of automatic counting or recording can be provided. Even
in that case, an independent check on the apparatus would be
necessary. In any event, since the apparatus necessary for such
a system is elaborate, we will describe the methods without assum-
ing that it will be available.
The point of greatest emphasis in making the PK test crucial
will be in the accuracy of recording. The other points to be
watched can be handled more easily. Whenever recording de-
pends upon the human observer alone (that is, is
nonphotographic
or nonmechanical) two independent recorders are needed for con-
clusive tests based on the standard measures of scoring effects.
This applies equally well both to the target face and to lie place-
ment methods.
Again, as in exploratory testing, it is not necessary to be con-
cerned with perfection, either in the dice (or other objects used)
or in the apparatus used. Adequate control over possible imper-
fections must be included in the design of the test. It is a more
important point that if there is to be any human contact with the
dice during the test, they be handled only by the experimenters
and not by the subjects. The possibility would otherwise have to
be recognized that in the target-face tests the subject, in picking
up the dice, might use a trick (e.g., substituting loaded dice by
slight of hand) borrowed from the gambling arts.
To eliminate the alternative of precognition, remote though
it is as a possibility, the strict adherence to a standard sequence
of target order wOl be necessary unless some other provision is
made for this requirement ( Other methods have been discussed
in Chapter 3.)
In the activation of the dice it is
highly advantageous, if not,
indeed, necessary to use a mechanical method of release even
with target-face experiments. A method permitting the dice to
fall or tumble under the force of gravity combines the advantages
of safety and simplicity. In tests with faces as targets, rotating
(motor-driven) transparent cages can be used to good advantage
as they make it
unnecessary for the dice to be handled by anyone
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 105
during the experiment. If a stationary release point Is used arid
if a proper table is constructed, the same apparatus can be used
for either face or place as targets. It should have an electrically-
operated release box and the latter should be firmly attached to
the table together with a connecting incline of proper angle for
the greatest activation of the dice. The procedure must include
PK test tor target face with machine-thrown dice.
adequate safeguards against altering the position of or jarring the
apparatus or otherwise physically influencing the dice at the time
of release, so as to affect the results in any way. The subject
should always be in the same position during the test though he
may be encouraged to choose at the start the place that he finds
most satisfactory.
The release box should be constructed with a V-shaped bottom,
long enough to hold the objects in a single row. This will give
a uniform release direction to all objects when the trapdoor is
opened, which is
especially important in a placement test. Unless
166 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the design of the experiment
calls for a different plan the dice in
a test for target face may be dropped into the release box in a
random fashion. Shaking in cupped hands (picking up in a cup
or using a loading chute) will insure this as the dice are dropped
in the box.
Strict rules should be laid down in advance concerning doubt-
ful cases of cocked dice or dice that fall from the table or lodge
in the apparatus.
Each incomplete trial should be left unrecorded
and repeated in full. Every possible provision should be made to
eliminate cases where judgment is
required to interpret the results.
If judgment is ever necessary, it must always be made on the
conservative side; that is, favoring the chance hypothesis.
With nothing left to consider but the place or face of the dice,
the experimenters can give full attention to the psychological
needs of the subject, which, in a more highly controlled experi-
ment, are greater than in a simpler test. The presence of a second
record-taker is
likely to be a handicap to the subject unless this
observer can keep himself quietly inconspicuous, making nota-
tions and preparing record sheets. The first experimenter should
handle the dice (if necessary) as well as keep his own record of
all dice (i.e., faces or positions).
While both observers must be
in a position to see the dice themselves, their records should
generally not be visible to the other recorder.
All these precautions, however fully thought out and seriously
taken by the experimenters themselves, need to be kept effectively
in the background so far as the subject is concerned. As has been
stated repeatedly, the test is not a psi test in reality unless the
psychological conditions are such as to allow psi to function.
A too officious attention to the details of safeguarding can be dis-
tracting to most subjects.
Both general types of PK tests lend themselves easily to a
great variety of adaptations. The reseach worker is
likely to
think of interesting variations that have special appeal for him or
perhaps for a particular subject. Such departures are highly
desirable when taken at the proper stage. Good scientific pro-
cedure calls for making such a departure only after successful ex-
perience with the standard lines of investigation. Even then the
inclusion of a section based on standard methods right along with
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 167
each new adaptation tried is a wise and proper course to follow.
The results are bound to be more meaningful and conclusive with
this more comparative basis for interpretation. Always, of course,
it is well to keep in mind the advantages of the pilot-test method
in projecting new programs of research. This guarded approach
will help the experimenter to decide how long the test series
should be, which analyses would be best, and whether the
project is
generally feasible.
TV. Summarizing Comments
Emphasis is needed on a few main considerations. Each
worker will, in his own experience, come upon these points, but
much time can be saved if he can take them under consideration
early.
First, let us underscore the importance of a worker's recogniz-
ing the stage at which he is
engaged. If he is
beginning an
inquiry he should not allow himself to be burdened with the heavy
considerations of conclusive testing.. The scout would be unduly
handicapped by such heavy equipment The freedom to search
quickly, lightly,
and over a wider range is
precious to the early
explorer. It is
equally important, of course, once an explorer finds
himself reasonably satisfied about something he thinks important,
that he should advance to the methods of making more certain for
himself and for his fellow scientists. This justifies
and even
urgently requires the more crucial types of testing such as those
described in the section just preceding.
Second, we could not urge too strongly the importance of the
subjective conditions needed for such experiments as these
methods are meant to serve. The objective routines are by far
the easier part to handle, and the less important as well They
are quite useless and even a waste of time unless the atmosphere
of the test situation is
adequately taken into account. The mental
state of the subject in approaching and taking part in the test is
a proper first consideration, then, in any psi experiment. The
objective methods we have been describing are merely the sec-
ondary equipment, the machinery necessary to the operation.
Third, it should be recognized that not many of the most im-
168 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
portant researches in parapsychology were done with a very clear
concept of rale and method in mincL Pioneer workers are likely
to be nde makers and even rule breakers rather than rale fol-
lowers. This we anticipate will continue to be the case. The
value of these methods, then, as formulated, is to provide an
advantageous start for those who wish to begin as far up toward
the front as possible, for most of whom psi testing must remain a
matter incidental to other professional practice and work. Those
who will be drawn further into the depth of
parapsychological
investigation as a professional career will, in due time, take these
more basic procedures as points of departure for such advances
as their own fresh inquiries will demand. Yet even for them the
benefits of already prepared basic methods will neither be lost nor
forgotten.
Fourth, in
emphasizing the need for certain standardized tests
we do no* (as we have said) mean to
discourage innovations as
far as these prove interesting and useful. The point that most
needs emphasizing for the research worker in
parapsychology is
the importance of giving free rein to his own inventive genius in
the development of new and perhaps better devices of inquiry.
Perhaps most important of all in this connection is the psychologi-
cal need of the experimenter himself to
experience the enjoy-
ment of breaking new ground. In the same breath, then, that the
importance of first
becoming acquainted with standard, estab-
lished procedure is
emphasized, can be stressed with equal force
the need to advance beyond mere repetition. The experimenter
needs to move ahead one step at a time, all the while
introducing
fresh novelty into every progressive effort.
Additional Reading
KAHN, S. D.: Studies in
extrasensory perception. Proc. Am. Soc.
Psychical Re*., 25:1-48, 1952.
RHINE, J. B.: Eequirements and suggestions for an ESP test machine
/. Parapsychd., 3:3-10, 1939.
Sa3mm,W.: Spontaneity as a factor in ESP. J. ParapgychoL, 12-.W-
STOART, C E., and PRATT, J. G.: A Handbook for Testing Extrasen-
sory Perception. New York, Farrar and Rhinehart, 1937.
SOME BASIC PSI TEST PROCEDURES 169
TYBBELL, G. N. M.: The Tyrrell apparatus for testing extrasensory per-
ception- J. Parapsychol, 2:107-118, 1938.
WEBSTEB, D. D.: An automatic testing and recording device for ex-
periments in extrasensory perception. /. Parapsychol, 13:107-117,
1949.
WEST, D. J.: Tests for Extrasensory Perception: An Introductory
Guide. London, Society for Psychical Research, 1954
172 PAHAPSYCHOLOGY
uses this device must make sinre that it is
explicitly stated before
the trial is made wlien it is not to be counted and also when the
next trial is to be the first one of the "on the record" series.
B. Statistical Tables
Statistical evaluations are often made more quickly and easily
by the use of tables which list some of the necessary values, al-
ready worked out for the cases most frequently required. A
number of such tables applying to the methods described in this
chapter are given at the back of the book Some of the tables
apply to the results of specific test procedures; their use will be
explained and references made to them at appropriate points in
the descriptions of the statistical methods. One table that is basic
to a number of statistical methods is that by which the "critical
ratio** ( CR) associated with a test result may be translated into a
probability of occurrence on a chance basis. Such a probability
value (P) is the objective of every statistical analysis, and if P is
sufficiently small the "chance" explanation becomes unreasonable
and the evaluation is said to be statistically significant* The
criterion of significance, an arbitrarily selected value which P must
not exceed if the chance hypothesis is to be rejected, may be taken
as .01 for a result interpreted in terms of the amount of the devia-
tion from the chance average without regard to the sign or direc-
tion of the deviation. The use of a criterion of significance is dis-
cussed more fully kter in the chapter.
No effort wilbe made to define every statistical term used in the
text A number of definitions are given in the glossary.
ZL Evaluation of a Total Score
A. ESP Card Test
Given: an ESP series of 25 runs (025 trials) with a total score
of 160 hits. What is the statistical
significance of this result?
The most likely chance score, or mean chance expectation
For example, if a P-vafoe of .01 is obtained, this means that in an experiment
soch as the one tmder consideration a result, considered solely in terms of random
Ration
of scores, would differ from the expected chance average by as much as
the one obtained an average of only 1 time in 100 repetitions of the series
STATISTICAL METHODS 173
(MCE), for a series of this length is 1/5 X 625 = 125 hits. Ex-
pressed in general terms, MCE = np, where n is the number of
trials and p is the probability of a hit on each one.
The deviation (Dev.) is 160 125 = +35. The deviation is
positive in sign if the observed score is
greater than MCE, and
negative when the observed score is less than MCE. The formula,
Dev. = Observed Score MCE, gives the deviation with its
correct sign.
The standard deviation is 2Vno. of runs = 2V25 = 10. This
is a convenient computation formula which applies to standard
ESP runs of 25 trials. It is derived from the general formula for
the variance of the binomial distribution: Var. = npq. where n
and p are as already defined, and q = 1 py or the probability of
scoring a miss on any given call. The standard deviation is the
square root of the variance, or \^npq. For the 625-trial series this
becomes V625 X 1/5 X 4/5, which reduces to 2V no. of runs.
The critical ratio (CR) is the deviation divided by the standard
deviation, or in the present case, +35/10 = +3.5.
The probability (P) is found by looking up the CR in a table
which shows areas under the normal curve in relation to CR
values. A table for the conversion of CR values to P values is
given on page 197. From this it
may be seen that the P value
associated with a CR of 3.5 is .0005. This means that only about
5 times in 10,000 would a score in a 25-run series deviate from
MCE by as much as the observed score through mere chance
coincidence. In other words, the fact that the score does not fall
between 90 and 160 is very unlikely so unlikely that the chance
hypothesis is not a reasonable explanation of the results. The
score of 160 hits on 25 runs is therefore statistically significant.
Since the above evaluation is based upon the amount of the
deviation without regard to its direction from MCE, the level of
statistical significance
would be the same for a total score of 90
on 25 runs, or a negative deviation of 35 hits. Because of the psi-
missing effect, the general practice
has become one of interpreting
CR's in this manner that allows for the occurrence of either
positive or negative deviations. This is done in the CR table given
on page 197.
174 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
A table of SD values for ESP tests is
given on page 194.
B. PK Test for Target Faces
Suppose a PK test for target faces consisting of 20 runs (480
die throws) has been completed with a total of 112 hits. What
is the probability value for this score? Proceed in a manner similar
to the one described for the ESP series above.
MCE = 1/6 x 480 = 80 hits.
Dev. = 112 80 = +32.
SD = V^pq = V 480 X 1/6 X 5/6 = 8.17.
(For computational purposes, it can be shown that for the PK
run of 24 dice throws SD = 1.826 Vno. of runs. )
CR = +32/8.17 = 3.9.
P = .0001.
This means that a deviation as large as the one observed, or
larger, in either direction from MCE would be expected to occur
on the average only one time in 10,000 such series
solely on the
basis of chance variation in scores. Since the P value is below the
.01 criterion of significance, the chance hypothesis may be rejected
as an adequate explanation of this PK result
A table of SD values for PK tests for
target faces is
given on
page 195.
C PK Placement Test
Suppose that a pkcement test has been completed which con-
sists of 600 trials, 300 for each target area, and a total of 268 dice
landed on the target side. To find the significance of this score,
proceed as follows:
MCE = 1/2 x 600 = 300
Dev. = 268 - 300 = -32
SD = V600 x 1/2 x 1/2 = V150 = 12.25
CR = -32/1&25 = -2.6
P = .01
The result is therefore
statistically significant, though more of
the dice came to rest on the side opposite to that which the subject
was concentrating upon as the target.
A table of SD values for placement tests is
given on page 196.
STATISTICAL METHODS 175
UI. Evaluation of a Difference Between the Scores of Two Series
One question that may be raised in comparing the results
obtained under two test conditions is whether the difference in
scoring rate provides evidence for the operation of the psi process
under investigation. From this point of view the two different
test conditions may have been introduced as a psychological de-
vice to provide a more favorable situation for psi For example,
the experimenter may try to motivate the subject more strongly
by challenging
hfrn to score above MCE and below MCE on
alternate runs, and the plan of the experiment might provide for
evaluating the difference between the high- and low-aim results
as an indication that ESP was operating. Or again, a group of
subjects might be separated into "sheep** and "goats'* and the
difference in scoring rate evaluated as a means of deciding
whether ESP was demonstrated within the data as a whole.
The following tests of significance for group differences apply,
in a strict sense, only for this limited purpose of finding out if
the chance hypothesis may be rejected.
A. Difference Between Two Croups of Equal Size
The procedure in this case is closely similar to that used in
evaluating the total score of a single group of trials. Add the
number of trials in the two equal groups and treat this as if it
were the total number of trials of a single group. Take the differ-
ence between the total scores of the two groups and treat this dif-
ference as if it were the deviation from MCE of this "single" group.
Proceed to evaluate the significance of the "total trials'* and ^devi-
ation" in the appropriate manner as already described in the
preceding section. As an illustration, consider the following
example.
Assume that a subject did ordinary screened BT runs alter-
nately with runs based on individual target cards sealed in opaque
envelopes. According to the experimental plan, 50 runs were
completed under each condition and the BT total score was 340
hits while that on the sealed targets (as checked at the end of
the series) was 260 hits.
The total number of runs under both conditions is 100, and the
difference between the two scores is 80. From this point onward
178 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the evaluation of the difference is
parallel
to the evaluation of the
total score for the 25-run ESP series described in the preceding
section. Therefore, the CRiiff. = 40 and P = .00006.
The difference between the scores obtained under the two con-
ditions is therefore highly significant
With equal groups in PK tests, whether for target faces or for
placement, the method for evaluating the difference would
proceed along comparable lines.
B. Difference Between Two Unequal Groups of Trials
When the number of trials done under the two conditions is
not the same, it is
obviously not possible merely to test the dif-
ference between the total scores of the two groups. It is neces-
sary, therefore, to get the average rate of scoring within each
group and to make a statistical test of the difference in averages.
Since runs of 25 trials in ESP tests and of 24 trials in PK tests
for target face have become standard, it is convenient to work
with average run scores as the basis of the evaluation. If either
group contains fewer than 30 runs, the t test (see p. 180) should
be used as a 'statistical procedure applicable to small samples.
Assume that under Condition A 40 ESP runs yielded a total
score of 275 hits and that under Condition B 60 ESP runs gave
a total score of 305 hits. What is the significance of the difference
between the results for Condition A and Condition B?
The average scoring rate of the A group is 275/40 = 6.875 hits
per run.
The average of the B group is 305/60 = 5.083 hits per run.
The difference between run averages is therefore L792.
The standard deviation of this difference is
given by the
formula; SDdnt = (SD of 1 run) Vl/Ri + 1/Ib, where Ri is
the number of runs done under Condition A and Re is the number
of runs .done under Condition B. In the present instance, SDdm
= 2V1/40 + 1/60 = .408.
The CRdiff = L792/.408 = 4.4
P =r .OOOOL The difference between the two groups is there-
fore highly significant*
The same general procedure is followed in working out the
difference between two unequal groups for PK target face results.
STATISTICAL METHODS ITT
Tie standard deviation for 1 run of PK, However, is 1.828, and
this value must be used in place of the standard deviation of 2
applied above as the appropriate one for the ESP run.
It is obvious that the evaluation of the difference between equal
groups is more simple to do. An experimenter needs only to plan
his research, with equal groups in order to take advantage of the
easier calculation.
A more advanced use of different test conditions than that of
simply looking for further evidence of the occurrence of psi enters
at a more advanced stage of the research. This is when the ex-
perimenter is no longer interested in simply proving the occur-
rence of ESP, precognition, or PK, but wants to discover some-
thing about the nature of psi processes. For a conclusive experi-
ment at this stage, it is
necessary to use a test of significance which
assumes that psi may be present in the results, but to an unknown
degree. The test uses the data themselves as a basis for estimat-
ing whether the ESP effect, say, was stronger under one or an-
other test condition. The procedure most commonly used for
this purpose is Student's t test which is described in general terms
on page 180 and which is
explained in more detail in the statisti-
cal texts listed at the end of this chapter.
IV. Some Uses of the Chi-Square Test
The chi-square test, like those based upon the critical ratio,
provides a means of testing certain aspects of the data in terms of
a theoretical chance distribution which has been established in
mathematical statistics. Like any other statistical test, the chi-
square analysis depends upon certain assumptions which must be
satisfied to a reasonably close degree by the data to be analyzed.
Two of the main assumptions are, first, that the probability of a
success on each observation is the same for all the data and,
secondly, that what happens on each trial is statistically independ-
ent of what happens on any of the other trials. These conditions
are sufficiently well realized in most ESP and PK experiments to
justify the use of a chi-square analysis, and a chi-square test some-
times contributes valuable information which is not furnished by
178 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
otter statistical analyses,, Three applications of the chi-sqnare
analysis will be illustrated here.
A. Contingency Test Applied to ESP Data
A so-cafled five-by-five contingency table of ESP results shows
the frequency with which each ESP call symbol was associated
with the five different card symbols. Such a 25-cel table gives
a more detailed picture of what occurred in the test than is ob-
tained from the total score alone. An explanation of the chi-
square test applied to a five-by-five table of ESP results is
given
in Appendix 5 of the book Extrasensory Perception After Sixty
Years*1
The investigator who wishes to use this method is re-
ferred to that source, or a discussion of it
may be found in one of
the standard textbooks on statistical methods.
B. Test of the Relationship Between Psi and Another Psychologi-
cal Attrikite
Investigators have been interested, for example, in whether ESP
perfonnance is rekted to die subject's attitude of belief or dis-
belief in ESP. For a valid test of such a relationship it is neces-
Attihides
Belief Disbelief
(Sheep) (Goats)
saiy to take the individual subject as tie unit of observation, and
not the single ESP trial as has been done in the analyses con-
sidered up to this
point.
STATISTICAL METHODS 179
Suppose that each of 71 subjects has taken an ESP test of
5 runs- Suppose also that each subject rated himself as a sheep
(one who accepts the possibility of ESP) or a goat (one win)
rejects the possibility)
. Each subject is then tabulated according
to whether he falls within the sheep or the goat category, and is
further classified at the same time according to whether his ESP
score was above MCE on the one hand, or was at or below MCE
on the other hand. Suppose that this tabulation gives the distri-
bution of subjects shown in the two-by-two table on the preced-
ing page.
Such a table can be subjected to a chi-square test With a
calculating machine, the most convenient formula is as follows:
(ad-bc)
1
(a-fb-fc-Hl)
X? =
(a+b)(c-fd)(a-f-c)(b-Hl)
This chi square has one degree of freedom, and its
square root is
equivalent to a critical ratio.
In the above table, X2 = 11.88 and P = .0006, and the result
is therefore significant* If die conditions of the test were suffi-
cient to exclude other counterhypotheses, the conclusion could
be drawn that a positive relationship exists between ESP scoring
and belief in ESP.
C. Combination of Critical Ratios
Reversal of a relationship expressed a few lines above leads
to the statement: the square of a CR is
equivalent to X2
with
one degree of freedom. This fact, coupled with the further fact
that chi squares may be added (and their degress of freedom
added) to obtain larger values of X2
, provides a convenient way
of making a joint
evaluation of the CR's from two or more series
of independent tests. The CR's are squared and added to get a
X2
value with as many degrees of freedom as the number of CR's
used. This value of X? is looked up in a table of the chi-square
distribution, where the P value may be read in the column for
* For a more accurate estimate of the probability in evaluations that come out
near the criterion of -
significance, Yates* correction for discontinuity should be
made in obtaining X* for tables having the observed value of any cell between
5 and 10. This consists of adding 5 to the smallest cell vake and adjusting the
other three ceils to keep the marginal totals unchanged.
L80 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
the correct number of degrees of freedom. This P value repre-
sents the significance
of the results of the combined serieSc While
it may be worth while in an exploratory investigation to combine
CBTs in this way as an afterthought, for a conclusive experiment
it would be necessary to state in die plan the extent to which this
test would be used as a basis of estimating the overall significance
of the results.
V. Other Methods of Statistical Evaluation
A, General Methods
Within the limited scope of the present book, we can only call
attention to other analyses which have been useful in parapsy-
chological investigation.
Some of these may assume a relatively
more important position as the research advances.
The correlation method provides a means of finding out whether
two functions that are measured tend to vary consistently, one
in relation to the other. The regression coefficient is used for the
same general purpose.
Studen/s t test is a means of estimating the significance of a
total score or of a difference between two distributions* It does
not depend upon a theoretical background distribution of the
data, but uses statistical parameters of the distribution obtained
from the observed data themselves. The most basic assumption
of the t test is that the observed data are a random sample from
a nonnally distributed population.
Analysis of variance is a statistical method by which a number
of conceivable factors which might have influenced the results
can be studied simultaneously on the basis of a single mass of
data* To be able to apply analysis of variance profitably, the
investigator must give careful thought to the designing of his
tests to assure that the effect of the several factors to be studied
are distributed as uniformly as possible throughout the testing
period* Considerable knowledge of statistics as well as experience
in the application of statistics to parapsychological problems is
inquired before one may safely venture upon an investigation
based upon this method Also, caution is
necessary in the inter-
pretation of the results of analysis of variance.
STATISTICAL METHODS 181
The four methods mentioned thus far in this section are stand-
ard statistical procedures, and the reader who wishes further in-
formation about any of them may find it in general textbooks on
statistics. The procedures now to be mentioned are, on the other
hand, largely methods that were first
developed to meet a need
in psi research, and references will be given to the descriptions of
them in the parapsychological
literature.
B. Evaluation of Multiple-Calling Card Data
In testing a number of subjects at the same time, the experi-
menter may for convenience use only one random card order for
each run and have all the subjects make their calls for the same
targets.
If such group results were evaluated by the methods that
apply to individual test, every call would be taken as a separate
trial; that is, for each target there would be as many trials as
there were subjects responding to it Actually, the only assuredly
random basis for a statistical test is the target order, and taking
each call as a trial in multiple-calling
data violates the assumptions
of randomness and statistical independence underlying the statis-
tical methods. A statistically sound method for evaluating
multiple-calling data has been developed* A proper method is
therefore available but one that is time-consuming to apply. The
additional time required for the analysis may well amount to
more than was saved at the start of the experiment by not provid-
ing a separate target order for each subject Also, using a
separate target for each call provides
a more sensitive test for
detecting ESP.
C. Evaluation of Verbal Material
The question of whether unrestricted verbal material contains
information applying to a particular person or situation beyond
what mere guessing could account for has arisen in parapsychol-
ogy primarily in connection with the study of "mediumship.**
Such a study might be conducted, for example, by handing tie
subject (medium) at each session a sealed envelope containing
a snapshot, and then taking a full record of the personal descrip-
For the original statement and solution of the problem in general terms (the
symbolic language of mathematical statistics), see Greville.
5
182 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
tions and references given by tie subject The question is: Do
the subject*s remarks fit the facts associated with the snapshot to
any reliable degree, or are they fust as likely to be true for any
photograph selected at random? The Grevifle method for
multiple-calling data has been adapted and applied to the evalua-
tion of verbal material. This method was described in an article
which also contains a general discussion of the statistical diffi-
culties which complicate the evaluation of verbal material and
traces the steps in the development of a reliable method.4
D. Evaluation of Picture Tests
ESP tests have also been made with target material which
allows the subject a greater freedom of response than he has in
a test with a clearly defined range of targets. The type of "free
material" used most frequently has been pictures cut from maga-
zines. The subject, for example, is told only that some kind of
picture has been sealed inside an opaque envelope and that he is
to try to make a drawing on a blank sheet of paper to
duplicate
the target as closely as possible. In such a test, there is no
definite
probability value that can be assigned to tie fact that a
particular picture was selected as the target Without a defined
probability of success on each trial, the results do not lend them-
selves directly to statistical evaluation.
Forced matching methods have been used as a means of con-
verting target pictures and the subject's drawings to numerical
values that can be assessed. To meet the requirements of this
method, the subject might be asked to make drawings for, say,
four concealed target pictures. The experimenter removes the
pictures from their
envelopes without letting the
subject know
the order. The subject then ranks his four drawings against each
target, assigning a value of 4 for the one that shows the closest
resemblance, 3 for the second best, 2 for the third best, and 1 for
the worst After the four
drawings have been matched against
eachirf the four targets in this way, the process is
repeated, with
the four targets being "force matched" against each of the draw-
ings. The matching values are combined to give a total score
for each of the sixteen
drawing-target correspondences, and the
scores obtained in the four cases in which each drawing was com-
STATISTICAL METHODS 183
pared with its real target are evaluated in relation to the expected
chance values by means of Student's t test
The above description covers in general terms the method re-
ferred to as preferential matching.
9
Other matching methods
have also been used for dealing with picture-and-drawing tests
of ESP, but this one will serve as a general illustration of die
principle which they all have in common: When the design of
the experiment does not provide a quantitative basis as the start-
ing point, the results must be reduced to numerical terms at a
later stage by some suitable objective (and arbitrary) procedure
before they can be evaluated statistically. It is
certainly more
convenient to start with a quantitative test, and an experimenter
would be justified in using unrestricted targets only if his research
objective should require or would be better served by such
material.
E. Evaluation of "Clock* Card Tests
Clock-face cards were introduced as targets for ESP tests to
allow the possibility of scoring each call in tenns of how far it
missed the target* Each card contains a circle with the 12 hours
and with a single hand pointing to one of them. The position of
the hand varies at random from card to card and the subject
simply calls an hour, attempting to hit the one shown cm the
concealed target
Each call is scored in two ways: first, as a hit or a miss, as is
usually done in ESP tests; secondly, in terms of how far away
(to the left or right) the call is from the hour shown on the
target The "direct hit" scores are suitable for statistical evalua-
tion by the methods commonly used for ESP results. For evaluat-
ing the "dispersion" score, a new statistical method was required*
The two methods are applied to the same data from dock cards
as a baas of comparing the "amount" of ESP shown by the two
ways of scoring the results.
F. The Exact Probability of a Two-by-Two Table
This method is not one developed to answer a question first
raised in parapsychology, but it is
frequently needed for the eval-
uation of a two-by-two table. The method of testing such a table
* For a Ml explanation of the method, see Humphrey.*
184 PAHAPSYCHOLOGY
by dbi square was given on pp. 178-9. But when the observed
valua in one or more of the four cells is very small (say not over
3), cM square is not likely to be applicable since a X* value is
not reliable if the expected wlw in any cell falls much below 10.
Hie chi-square test only gives a reliably dose approximation to
the P value of a two-by-two distribution under the above condi-
tions. With small observed values, it is practicable to compute the
exact probability that the observed distribution or a more un-
likely one might have occurred on a chance basis when the row
aad column totals do not change. If the figures in a fourfold
table are
the exact probability for the observed case would be
m _
~"
(a+b+c-Hl)la!bic!d!
Assume that c is the smallest number and is
equal to 1. Then,
to complete the analysis, obtain in the same way the probability
for the only possible more extreme case in which c = and the
vdnes of a, b, and d are adjusted to keep the same marginal
totals, and add the two probabilities.
As an illustration, suppose that the figures in the example given
on page 178 ha$ been, instead of the ones shown there, as follows:
12
11
10
21
p _ 11110112191 _
~ 21181913111
- OU5e
STATISTICAL METHODS
The only more unlikely distribution is:
185
9
10
12
11
10
11I1CH1219!
21191101210!
= .0002
21
lie desired P value is therefore .0056 + .0002 = .0058. The
observed distribution is therefore not likely to have occurred
solely on the basis of random variation, and with an equally well
planned and safeguarded experiment the investigator would draw
the same conclusion as was readied from the chi-square test of
the previous two-by-two table.
The above illustration takes into account only one tail of the
curve of frequency of fourfold tables, and the P value found is
appropriate only in those instances in which the investigator
predicted in advance the direction of deviation and would not
have drawn any conclusion from an unusual result near the
opposite end of the curve. If the probability for a given case in
terms of chance occurrence at either end of the curve is desired,
it is necessary to work out also the cases at the other extreme
which have a chance probability of occurrence that is
equal to or
smaller than that of the observed case, and to add in these F
values as well
VI. Criterion of Significance
The aim of every statistical analysis is to arrive at a probability
value for the results which is an indication of how frequently a
result at least as unlikely as the one found (that is, as diiferent as
it is from chance expectation) would occur merely on a chance
basis.
Every statistical analysis is literally a test of the chance hy-
pothesis. When a low P-value has been predicted and is found
186 PABAPSYCHOLOGY
(one, say, of the order of .01 or lower), it becomes unreasonable
to suppose that only chance factors were operatingc A statistical
test never completely excludes the chance explanation; it
only
tells us when we are justified to infer that some principle was
operating consistently to influence the results and whether to
plan further investigations to test the consequences of this con-
clusion. The acid test of a conclusion reached on the basis of
a statistical analysis is whether investigations made to follow it
up lead to better understanding and control of the phenomena,
lite justification
of the use of statistics lies, therefore, in the future
of any field of research in the steady advancement of knowl-
edge through the judgments and predictions made on the basis
of the statistical findings.
In order for such judgments to have the necessary objectivity,
a criterion of significance is established by practice and general
agreement among the research workers in a particular field. To
a considerable extent the same probability level is
accepted as
"significant" among the various branches of science that depend
upon statistical evaluations. Most workers in parapsychology
accept a probability of .01 as the criterion of significance. This
is not to say that there is
any special magic in this value: that
chance governs any result that fails to meet this criterion, and that
some non-chance principle must be present when a P of .01 or
less is obtained. However, we need a precise albeit arbitrary-
criterion of significance as a standard which can be applied in
each experiment
The acceptance of a criterion of significance does not mean that
proof of the occurrence of any given phenomenon can be claimed
merely because a result at the .01
probability level is obtained.
Establishment of a scientific principle must always wait upon
repetition and confirmation; and the amount of confirmation re-
quired will depend upon various things, not least
among them
being the question of how surprising or how unlikely a hypothesis
appears to be.
References
L BHINE, J. B., et al: Extrasensory Perception After Sixty Years.
New York, Holt, 1940.
STATISTICAL METHODS 187
2. GBEVXLLE, T. N. E.: On multiple matching with one variable deck.
Ann. Math. Statistics, 15:432-434, 1944.
3. PRATT, J. G.: The variance for multiple-calling ESP data. J. Para-
psychol, 18:37-40, 1954.
4. PRATT, J. G., and BIRGE, W. R.: Appraising verbal test material in
parapsychology. /. Parapsychol9 12:236-256, 1948.
5. HTJMPHBET, B. M.: Handbook of Tests in Parapsychology. Dur-
ham, N. C., Parapsychology Laboratory, 1948.
6. FISK, G. W., and MITCHELL, A. M J.: ESP experiments with dock
cards: A new technique with differential scoring. /. Soc. Psy-
chicaL Res., 37:1-14, 1953.
Additional 'Reading
BROWNT.KK, K. A.; Industrial Experimentation. London, Her Majesty's
Stat Off., 1949.
COGHRAN, W. G., and Cox, G. M.: Experimental Designs. New York,
Wiley, 1956.
EDWABDS, A. L.: Statistical Methods for the Behavioral Sciences.
New York, Einehart, 1954.
FISHER, R. A., and YAIES, F.: Statistical Tables. London, Oliver and
Boyd, 1953.
FISHEH, R. A.: Statistical Methods for Research Workers, 10th Ed
New York, Hafner, 1948.
HOEL, F. G.: Introduction to Mathematical Statistics. New York,
Wiley, 1954
RHINE, J. B., et dL: Extrasensory Perception after Sixty Tears. New
York, Holt, 1940, pp. 22-48, 349-394.
SNEDECOR, G. W.: Statistical Methods. Ames, Iowa, Collegiate Press,
1946.
WDLKS, S. S.: Elementary Statistical Analysis. Princeton, N. J., Prince-
ton, 1951.
Tables
List of Tables
TABLE I
RATING TABUS FOR RESULTS OF ESP CARD TESTS
of Chasux
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
60
70
80
90
100
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
300
350
400
450
500
27-28
33-34
39-40
44-46
50-52
56-57
61-63
67-69
72-74
78-80
83-85
89-91
94-96
100-102
105-107
110-113
116-118
142-145
169-172
196-199
222-226
248-252
275-279
327-331
379-384
431-436
483-488
534-540
Score Total Obtained
Good
(Range of Statistical
Sigmfcanct)
31 and above
37 and above
43 and above
49 and above
55 and above
61 and above
67 a ~* above
73 and above
78 and above
84 and above
90 and above
95 and above
101 and above
107 and above
112 and above
118 and above
124 and above
151 and above
179 and above
206 and above
233 and above
260 and above
287 and above
340 and above
394 and above
447 and above
499 and above
552 and above
EXPLANATION: Each run consists of 25 trials, each vdth a 1/5J
If the score total obtained for a given number of runs faUs withm the himts
"Encouraging" column, the approximate odds against obtaining so lar
Hthe score
to^
obtained
n in the "Good" column, the odds are 100-to-lor higher
to obtained score totals that are
^t^*"**"?
score to the same degree as those shown in the table are *oi* the expected chance
score.
191
192 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
TABLE II
RATING TABLES FOR PEL TESTS FOR TARGET FACE
Number Expected
of Chame Score
Rm$ Total
4 16
5 20
6 24
7 28
8 32
9 36
10 40
12 48
14 56
16 64
18 72
20 80
25 100
30 120
35 140
40 160
45 180
50 200
60 240
70 280
80 320
90 360
100 400
E3KAHATIQN: Each run consists of 24 trials, each with a 1/6 probability ofsuccess.
If the score total obtained for a given number ofruns falls within the limits indicated in
the "Encouraging" column, the approximate odds against obtaining so large a score in a
pure chance series are between 10-to-l and 20-to-l. If the score total obtained equals
or exceeds mat given in the "Good" column, the odds are 100-to-l or higher. Tbe
"* <*kfc would apply to obtained score totals mat are below the expected chance
score to the same degree as those shown in the table are <^ww the expected chance score.
TABLES 103
TABLE HI
RATING TABIS you RESULTS OF PK PLACEMENT TESTS
Number
of
Trial*
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
280
300
320
340
360
380
400
420
440
460
480
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Expected
Cham* Scar*
Total
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
200
210
220
230
240
250
300
350
400
450
500
Actual Score Total Obiauud
Encouraging Good
(Range of Statistical
Significance)
59-60
70-71
81-82
91-93
102-104
11S-415
123-125
134-136
144-147
155-157
165-168
176-178
186-189
197-199
207-210
217-220
228-231
238-241
249-252
259-262
270-273
321-325
373-377
425-429
476-480
527-532
63 and above
75 and above
86 and above
97 and above
108 and above
119 and above
130 and above
140 and above
151 and above
162 and above
173 and above
184 and above
194 and above
205 and above
216 and above
226 and above
237 and above
248 and above
258 and above
269 and above
279 and above
332 and above
385 and above
437 and above
489 and above
541 and above
EXPLANATION: A trial consists of an individual object which is released while the
subjects concentrate upon having it stop in the "target" area instead of in the equal,
non-target area. (For example, five objects rekased at one time count as fivetrials.)
It is essential that each side of the throwing surface should be used as the target fiar the
same number of trials, and that no change in <
adjustment to the apparatus be made
except when the trials for the two sides are equal If the actual score total obtained
(the total number of objects stopping within the target area) falls within the limits
indicated in the "Encouraging" column, the approximate odds against obtaining so
large a score in a pure chance series are between 10-to-l and 20-to-L If the score
total obtained equals or exceeds that given in the "Good" column, the odds are 1 00-
to-1 or higher. The same odds would apply to obtained score totals that are Mow
the expected chance score to the same degree as those shown in the table are ofcar
the expected chance score.
194 PABAPSYCHOLOGY
TABLE IV
STANDARD DEVIATIONS FOR ESP GAUD TESTS
EXPLANATION:. The table lists the standard deviations for ESP card tests of from 4
to 100 runs in length, each run consisting- of 25 trials, each with a 1/5 probability of
success* For details regarding the use of the standard deviation in evaluating the
results of ESP tests, see pages 172-3.
The SD for a scries longer than 100 runs may be found by doubling the SD value
shown in the tabk for ant-fourth the number of runs in the longer series. Thus the
SDfor20Qrumis2 X 14.14 - 28.28.
TABLES 195
TABLE V
STANDARD DEVIATIONS FOR PK TESTS FOR TARGET FACE
EXPLANATION: The table lists the standard deviations for PK tests of from 4 to 100
runs in length, each run consisting of 24 throws of individual dice tor a target face
regardless of the number of dice released at a time. For details regarding the use of
the standard deviation in evaluating the results ofPK tests, see page 174.
For series of more than 100 runs, the standard deviation may befbun
the SD shown in the table for one-fourth the given number of trials.
200runsis2 X 12.91 - 25.82.
198 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
TABLE VI
STANDARD DEVIATIONS FOR PK PLACEMENT TESTS
i
**** standard actions for PK placement tests of
tm
*L
Cach tml "K^* * ** fe of an individual object
number used on each attempt For details regarding the use of
iation in
equating
the results of PK placement tests, see page 174.
Hthc number of objects used regnlariy for each release does not bring the total uials of
* ** 1* ShWn ta ** ***** a diffcrent number of objects may
bctWCCn e ^ " f * trf* as targets) to
riik For i of more than 1000 ^Is, the
may I* fi)und by doubling the SD shown in the table for one-
fcrnrth the given number of tnak Thus the SD of 2000 trials is 2 X 11.18 - 22.36.
TABLES 197
TABLE VII
PROSASHJTHE3 OF CHANCE OCCURRENCE Of HtGH SCORES ON $Q9QLE ESP RUNS
Probability of
Occurrence of
the Given Score
Score or a Higher one
8 .109123
9 .046775
10 .017333
11 .005556
12 .001541
13 .000570
14 .000077
15 .000014
16 .000002
EXPLANATION: The tabk shows the thceretkalpi^^
distribution, which applies to ESP run scores with the "open" pack, or a random
distribution of targets. The theoretical probabilities are slightly different for scores
baaed upon the "closed" pack, hut the differences are ordinarily slight and the above
values may be applied to scores with the dosed pack idthot any appreciate danger of
overestimating the significance ofthe run score obtained
TABLE
TABLE FOR Cotrvmnwe CRITICAL RATIO* aero PROBABILITY VAUJES
CR Probability
1.0 .32
1.5 .13
2.0 .046
2.1 .036
2.3 .021
2.4 .016
2.5 .012
2.6 .0093
CR Probability
2.7 .0069
2.8 .0051
2.9 .0037
3.0 .0027
3.5 .00047
4.0 .000063
4.5 .0000068
5.0 .00000057
ExPLAKATWif: By locating in the table the CR vake a<^oa% obtained in maidng a
statistical analysts of resulte, the investigator may find the probability value which
H^&^tahowoftenaCR^/^Mif/^
basfe. For example, a CH of 2.6 or larger would be lbdsdWy on the basis of chance
variation less than one tone ia 100 attempt, on the average. In a property designed
aad executed psi experiment, a CR of Z6 or higher ia rated as statistically significant.
The probabilities listed apply to CR's baaed upon either positive or negative devia-
198 TABLE DC
THEOBETICAL BINOMINAL DrnmxmoN OF ESP RUN SCORES AND
US APPLICATION IN A Cm-SQUABE GOODNESS OF FlT TEST
Him
Score
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
18
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Binomd
Probability
.003778
.023612
.070835
.135768
.186681
.196015
.163346
.110842
.062348
.029442
.011777
,004015
.001171
.000293
.000063
.000012
.000002
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
.000000
1.000,000
Expected
(E)
.76
4.72
1417
27.15
37.34
39.20
32.87
22.17
12.47
5.89
2.35
.80
.23
.06
.01
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
199.99
Application to a 200-Run Series
Observed .
(0)
*
5.48
9.34
21
51
18
25
30
27
26
31
21
10
1
2
1
1
200
.42
1.03
.17
1.44
3.80
1.36
3.52
5.83
15 3.43
X2 = 21.00
Degrees of freedom = 8, P = .0071
Explanation: The first column gives the 26 possible scores on a nan thiough
the regular ESP pack. The second column shows the relative chance frequency
of occurrence of each score for a random or "open" order of 25 symbols; these
values are die 26 terms of the binomial expansion, (.2 + ,8)
23
.
(The distribu-
tion for the. balanced or "closed" pack differs slightly from the binomial but the
difference is so slight that it
x
can usually be ignored in practice.) The third
column shows the expected chance frequency of scores in a 200-nm series. The
fourth column lists a frequency of "obtained" scores in an assumed series of 200
runs. The fifth column gives the values of chi square for the different scores,
with those at the two extremes of the distribution being grouped so that no X-
wffl be based on an expected value of less than 5 (and preferably not below 10 ).
The sum of the chi squares (21.00 in this instance) may be looked up in Table
X and the corresponding probability value can then be read in the appropriate
column for the degrees of freedom involved in the analysis. (For a goodness-of-
fit test, the degrees of freedom are one less than the number of individual chi-
square categories. )
TABLE X
ELDEBTON'S CHI SQTJABE TABLES
199
Explanation: In these chi square tables, if equals degrees of freedom, n, plus one.
The entries give die probability of a chi square greater than or equal to the tabular
value, for the corresponding degrees of freedom. For values of n' greater than 30, chi
square may be interpreted by converting it to a critical ratio by the formula:
C R = J 2XZ
J 2n 1.
'
We wish to express our thanks to the editors of Biometrika for their kind permis-
sion to reproduce Hderton's Chi Square Tables from Pearson s Tables for Statisticians
and Biometricians.
200 TABLE X Continued
EU>ERTON'S Cm SQUABB TABLES
TABLE ^.--Continued
ELDEBTON'S Cm SQUABE TABLES
201
Some Significant
Events in
Parapsychology
Some Significant Events in the
Development
of Parapsychology
\J NTIL the history o parapsychology is written, students ap-
proaching the field will find it difficult to acquire a conception of
the developmental chronology of this branch of science. It will
be of some assistance to him, however, merely to have a listing of
some of the more significant events and especially to know the
starting points of developments that have proved to be important
Among the events that seem most outstanding in today s retro-
spect are: (1) Those steps that first called scientific attention to
the existence of a body of phenomena awaiting exploration. (2)
Main beginnings on the scientific
investigation of parapsychical
phenomena. (3) New problem areas opened up for research in
the field (4) The coming in of support for research and other
signs of growing recognition that indicate the progress the science
has made over the years. The list that follows is, of course, an
arbitrary selection that may at best only serve as an introductory
tracing of outlines of the growth of this new branch.
1871 Report of the Dialectical Society of London on parapsydhical
claims, especially those associated with mediumship.
1878 Prof. William Barrett's paper at the meetings of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science at Glasgow on
the identification of cards at a distance by a hypnotized sub*
ject
1882 The founding of the Society for Psychical Research-
1884 Introduction of statistical methods in parapsychology* Prof.
Charles Richet applied them to data from ESP tests.
1884 The founding of the American Society for Psychical Research.
This later merged with the Society for Psychical Research and
still later became independent again.
1893 The doctor's degree in medicine awarded by the University
of Montpellier to Albert Coste for a parapsychological thesis.
205
206 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
1911 An endowed laboratory for psychical research established at
Stanford University.
1912 Establishment of the Hodgson Fund at Harvard for the in-
vestigation of psychical phenomena.
1917 Publication of an experimental investigation of extrasensory
perception conducted in a university department of psy-
chology, by Dr. John E. Coover of Stanford University.
1921 First International Congress of Psychical Research, Copen-
hagen.
1924 The Boston Society for Psychic Research founded under the
leadership of Dr. Walter Franklin Prince.
1927 Research in parapsychology started at Duke under Prof. Wil-
liam McDougall in the Department of Psychology. The
Parapsychology Laboratory established in 1934.
1933 Ph.D. degrees for research in parapsychology awarded to
John F. Thomas (Duke University), Hans Bender (Bonn
University), and W. H. C. Tenhaeff (University of
Utrecht).
1934 Publication of the monograph, Extrasensory Perception, by
J. B. Rhine, introduced standardized card tests for the investi-
gation of ESP.
1935 Establishment of die Walter Franklin Prince Memorial Fel-
lowships for research in parapsychology at Duke.
1937 The Journal of Parapsychology founded under the aegis of
the Duke University Press.
1937 First handbook of test procedures in parapsychology, by C. E.
Stuart and J. G. Pratt
1937 Pronouncement of the President of the Institute of Mathe-
matical Statistics, approving the methods of statistical evalu-
ation in parapsychology.
1937 Symposium on parapsychology held by the Aristotelian So-
ciety and Mind Association in Great Britain.
1938 Roundtable on methods in parapsychology held by the Ameri-
can Psychological Association at Columbus, Ohio.
1938 First report of experiments in precognition, begun in 1933 at
the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke University,
1940 Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research established at the
University of Cambridge.
SOME SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN PARAPSYCHOLOGY 207
1940 Publication of Extrasensory Perception After Sixty Years, a
critical survey and examination of the evidence of ESP, by
five staff members of the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke
University.
1943 Report of experiments in psychokinesis begun in the Duke
Laboratory in 1934
1950 Grant by the Rockefeller Foundation to Duke for research in
the Parapsychology Laboratory.
1950 The British Society of Experimental Biologists symposium
in London on parapcvchology.
1950 The Royal Society of Medicine (Section on Psychiatry) spon-
sored an address on the subject of parapsychology in London
by J. B. Rhine.
1951 First Fulbright Scholar to receive a travel grant in para-
psychology. Dr. S. G. Soal of London University visited
Duke.
1951 The Royal Institution of Great Britain held a discourse pre-
sented by Robert H. Thouless on research in parapsychology.
1953 The Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke University received
a grant from the Office of Naval Research for the investi-
gation of ESP in animals.
1953 The University of Pittsburgh received a grant from the A. W.
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust for research in para-
psychology in the Department of Physics,
1953 A professorship of parapsychology under Dr. W. H. C Ten-
haeff was established at the University of Utrecht.
1953 An international Congress of Parapsychology was held at the
University of Utrecht under the sponsorship of the Para-
psychology Foundation of New York, the University, and the
Minister of Education of The Netherlands.
1954 The American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division,
held a symposium on parapsychology.
1955 The Ciba Foundation of London held a symposium on extra-
sensory perception.
1955 The Ralph Drake Perry Research Fellowships in Parapsy-
chology were established at Duke.
208 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
1956 St. Joseph's College of Philadelphia and Wayland College
of Pkinview, Texas, each established a Parapsychology
Laboratory.
1957 The Parapsychological Association, a professional society of
research workers in that field, was founded on June 19.
1957 The William McDougall Award ($1000) for Distinguished
Work in Parapsychology was established on June 22 by the
Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke.
1960 The Parapsychology Scholarship Fund established at Duke
University. Open to qualified, interested students anywhere.
1960 A symposium on parapsychology held by the Canadian
Physiological Society at Winnipeg.
1961 Founding of the Psychical Research Foundation at Durham,
No C^ for research on the problem of post-mortem survival.
1961 University of King's College, Halifax, authorized opening of
a Parapsychology Laboratory.
1961 The Ittleson Family Foundation made a grant to The Men-
ninger Foundation for research on "creativeness and the
paranormal.''
1961 The Psychology Department of the City College of New
York announced the establishment of graduate fellowships
for research in parapsychology leading to the Master's de-
gree in psychology*
1961 A laboratory for the investigation of telepathy was estab-
lished in the University of Leningrad under the direction of
L. L. Vasiliev.
1962 The Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man was
established at Durham, North Carolina. The research branch
of the Foundation is the Institute for Parapsychology.
1963 The Japanese Society for Parapsychology was organized for
the promotion of research in the field.
1964 The seventh annual convention of the Parapsychological Asso-
ciation was held at Oxford University, the first one outside
the United States.
1964 The Proceedings of the Parapsychological Association was
established. Number 1 covered the first seven years of the
Association, with subsequent issues expected annually.
SOME SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN PABAPSYCHOLOGY 209
1965 J. B. Rhine delivered a lecture on parapsychology in London.
at the invitation of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science and Granada Television, Ltd.
1967 The Department of Psychology and Parapsychology was
established at Andhra University under the chairmanship
of K. R. Raa
1968 The Division of Parapsychology was established at the Uni-
versity of Virginia with its own endowment within the
Department of Psychiatry.
1969 The Parapsychological Association was accepted by the
American Association for the advancement of Science as an
affiliated scientific organization.
1970 The Society for Psychical Research established a fund for
the support of students desiring to do postgraduate work in
the field of parapsychology.
1970 The Psychotronics Research Group was established in Czech-
oslovakia within the Faculty of General Medicine of Charles
University.
1971 Research related to national defense conducted by the Para-
psychology Laboratory of Duke University was published
after being declassified, thus revealing that the U. S. Govern-
ment liad supported work in this area in 1951.
1971 The National Institute for Mental Health made a grant for
research in parapsychology to Washington University.
1971 A test of extrasensory perception from outer space was
conducted by Captain Edgar D. Mitchell during the Apollo
14 flight Statistically significant results indicated that ESP
probably occurred
1971 The Arizona Supreme Court reversed the decision of the
lower court assigning the bequest of James Kidd for research
on postmortem survival to a neurological institute. The
bequest was awarded to the American Society for Psychical
Research*
Glossary
Agent: Sender in tests for telepathy, the person whose mental states
are to be apprehended by the percipient In GESP tests, the person
who looks at the stimulus object
Average Score: Average number of hits per run*
BM (Blind Matching) : An ESP card test in which the subject, hold-
ing the cards face down, sorts them into five piles, attempting to
match concealed key cards (see page 148) .
BT (Basic Technique): The clairvoyance technique in which each
card is laid aside by the experimenter as it is called by the subject
The check-up is made at the end of the run.
Calls The ESP symbol selected by the subject in trying to identify
a target
Chance: The complex of undefined causal factors irrelevant to the
purpose at hand*
Chance Expectation = Mean Chance Expectation: The most likely
score if only chance variation is present
Chance Average: Mean chance expectation expressed as an ex-
pected score, generally in terms of average per run.
Chi Square: A sum of quantities each of which is a deviation squared
divided by an expected value. Also a sum of the squares of CR's.
Clairvoyance; Extrasensory perception of objective events as dis-
tinguished from telepathic perception of the mental state of another
person.
CR (Critical Ratio): A measure to detennine whether or not the
observed deviation is significantly greater than the expected random
fluctuation about the average. The CR is obtained by dividing the
observed deviation by the standard deviation. (The probability of
a givenrCR may be obtained by consulting tables of the probability
integral, such as Table VUL)
Deviations The amount an observed number of hits or an average
score varies from the mean chance expectation or chance average.
A deviation may be total (for a series of runs) or average (per run).
Displacement: ESP responses to targets other than those for which
the oafls were intended.
211
212 PAKAPSYCHOLOGY
Backward Displacements ESP responses to targets preceding the
assigned targets (the ones for which they were intended)., Displace-
ment to the targets one, two, three, etc. places preceding the assigned
target are designated as (1), (2), (3), etc.
Forward Displacements ESP responses to targets coming later than
the assigned targets. Displacement to the targets one, two, three,
eta places after the assigned target are designated as (+1), (+2),
(+3), etc.
DT (Down Through): The clairvoyance technique in which the
cards are called down through the deck before any are removed or
checked
ESP (Extrasensory Perception): Awareness of or response to an
external event or influence not apprehended by sensory means.
ESP Cards: Cards, each bearing one of the following five symbols:
star, circle, three parallel wavy lines (called "waves"), square, plus.
ESP Packs Twenty-five ESP cards.
Closed Pack An ESP deck composed of five each of the five
symbols.
Open Pack An ESP deck made up of the ESP symbols selected in
random order.
Expectations see Chance.
Not due to chance alone.
Free Material: The stimulus objects of experiments in which an un-
limited or unspecified range of stimulus objects is employed (as
contrasted with methods such as card-calling in which the subject
knows that the stimulus object is one of a known range) .
GESP (General Extrasensory Perception) : A technique designed to
test file occurrence of extrasensory perception, permitting either
telepathy or clairvoyance or both to operate.
High-Dice Test: A PK technique in which the aim of the subject is to
try to influence a pair of dice to fafl with the two upper faces totaling
eight or more.
Low-Dice Test: A PK technique in which the aim of the subject is to
try to influence a pair of dice to fall with the two upper faces totaling
six or less.
MCE (Mean Chance Expectation) : see Chance.
P (Probability): A mathematical estimate of the expected relative
frequency of a given event if chance alone were operative.
Parapsychology: A division of psychology dealing with behavioral
or personal effects that are demonstrably nonphysical (that is, which
do notfall within the scope of physical principles).
GLOSSARY 213
Percipient
= Subject: The person who makes the calls in an ESP test
PK (Psychokinesis ) s The direct influence exerted on a physical sys-
tem by a subject without any known intermediate physical energy
or instrumentation*
Precognition: Cognition of a future event which could not be known
through rational inference.
Preferential Matching: A method of scoring free responses. A judge
ranks the stimulus objects (usually in sets of four) with respect to
their similarity to, or association with, each response; and/or he
ranks the responses with respect to their similarity to, or association
with, each stimulus object
Psi: A general termto identify personal factors or processes which are
nonphysical in nature. It approximates the popular use of the word
"psychic" and the technical one, "parapsychicaL*
Psi-Missing: Exercise of psi ability in a way that avoids the target
the subject is attempting to hit
Psi Phenomena: Occurrences which result from the operation of psi
They include the phenomena of both ESP (including precognition)
and PEL
Psychical Research: Older term used for parapsychology.
QD (Quarter Distribution): The distribution of-hits in the record
page (or in a logical subdivision thereof, such as the set or the half-
set) as found in the four equal quarters formed by dividing the
selected unit horizontally and vertically.
Random Order: An order of events which displays no treads or
regularities that would allow any inference regarding one eras* from
one or more of the others in the series.
Run: A group of trials, usually the successive calling of a deck of 25
ESP cards or symbols. In PK tests, 24 single die throws regardless
of the number of dice thrown at the same time.
Score: The number of hits made in one run*
Total Score: Total of scores made in a given number of runs,
Average Score: Total score divided by number of runs.
SD (Standard Deviation) :
Usually the theoretical root mean square
of the deviations. It is obtained from the fonnula VSpg in which n
is the number of single trials, p the probability of success par trial,
and q the probability of failure,
Series: Several runs or experimental sessions that are grouped, in
accordance with a stated principle.
Session: A unit of an ESP or PK experiment comprising all the trials
of one test occasion.
214 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Sets A subdivision of the record page serving as a scoring unit for a
consecutive group of trials* usually for the same target
Significances A numerical result is significant when it equals or sur-
passes some criterion of degree of chance improbability. The cri-
terion commonly used la parapsychology today is a probability value
of .01 or less, or a deviation in either direction such that the CB
is 158 or greater.
Singles Tests A PK technique in which the aim of the subject is
to try to influence dice to fall with a specified face up.
Spontaneous Psi Experience: Natural, unplanned occurrence of an
event or experience that seems to involve parapsychial ability,
Stimulus Objects The ESP card or drawing or other object, some
identifying characteristic of which is to be apprehended by the
percipient.
SIM (Screened Touch Matching) : An ESP card test in which the
subject indicates in each trial (by pointing to one of five key posi-
tions ) what he thinks the top card is in the inverted pack held by the
experimenter behind a screen. The card is then laid opposite that
position (see page 160).
Subject: The person who is experimented upon. In ESP tests, most
commonly the percipient (though also the agent in GESP and
telepathy) . In PK tests, any individual whose task it is to influence
the objects thrown.
Target: In clairvoyance or precognition tests the stimulus object; in
telepathy, the mental state of the agent In PK tests, the faces of the
die which the subject attempts to bring up in the act of throwing.
Target Card: The card which the percipient is
attempting to per-
cove (ie^ to identify or otherwise indicate a knowledge of).
Target Pocfc The deck of cards the order of which the subject is
attempting to identify.
Target Face: The face on the die which the subject tries to turn up
as a consequence of direct mental action.
Telepathy: Extrasensory perception of the mental activities of an-
not inchde the clairvoyant perception of
In
a single throw of the dice or other objects thrown.
Name Index
Anderson, M., 124
Angler, R. P., 44
AverilL R. U 125
Barrett, W. F., 125, 205
Bateman, F., 47, 63, 69, 76
Bates, K. E., Jr., 76, 98, 124
Bechterev, V,, 99
Besterman, T., 125
Birge, W. R-, 65, 187
Bond, E. M., 98
Broad, C. D., 76, 125
Brownlee, K. A., 187
Brujmians, H. J. F. W., 99, 125
Burtt, E. A., 44
Cadoret, R. J., 124, 125, 137
Carington, W., 48, 58, 63, 64,
125
Chari, C. T. K., 77
Cobb, P. W., 44
Cochran, W. G., 187
Coover, J. E., 206
Cox, G. M., 187
Dale, L. A., 65, 99
Dallenbach, K. M., 44
Devereux, G,, 125
Ducasse, C. J., 125
Dunlap, 1C, 44
Edwards, A. L., 187
Eisenbud, J., 124
EUdns, A. P., 109, 124
Estabrooks, G. H., 48-49, 63
Evans, C. C., 126
Feraberger, S. W., 44
Fisher, R. A., 187
Fisk, G. W., 187
Foster, A. A., 100
Foster, E. B., 99
Freud, S.9 128
George, R. W., 68
Gerber, R., 125
Gibson, E. R, 138
Goldney, K. M., 47-^8, 58, 63
Greenwood, J. A., 76
Grela, J. J., 126
GreviUe, T. N. E^ 181-182, 187
Hoel, F. G., 187
Hoffman, B., 77
Humphrey, B. M., 54, 58, 60, 64, 65,
98-100, 124, 138-140, 183, 187
Hutchinson, L-, 64
68>
76>
James, Wm., 15, 122
Jephson, I., 48, 63
Johnson, EL M., 44
Jordan, P., 77
Kahn, S. D., 168
Kary, E., 126
Knowles,F.W.,126
Lintott, G. A. M., 124
Lodge, O., 15
Mangan, G. L^ 64
Marchesi, K., 68-69
Matthews, G.V.T., 112, 125
McComas, H. C, 44
McConnell, K. A., 63, 65, 77
McDougafl, Wm., 15, 206
McMahan, E. A., 56, 64, 76, 124
Mitchell, A. M. J., 187
Mundle, C. W. &, 65, 126
Murphy, G., 15, 44, 64, 65, 77, 99, 100,
126
Myers, F. W. H., 15
215
216 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Nash, C. B., 65, 72, 76
Newton, M., 98S 124
Nicol I F., 98, 100
Nielsen, W., 64
Osboxn, E., 126
Osis, K., 64, 76, 99
Otani, S., 126
Paulson, P., 126
Pearce, H. E., 43-47
Pope, D. H,, 44, 76
Po^elk&F., 63,65
Pratt, J. G., 43* 47, 54, 62-65, 76, 98,
100, 125, 138, 168, 187, 206
Price, G. R., 37
Price, EL H., 126
Price, M.s 138
Prince, W. F., 206
Rhine, J. B., 15, 16, 47, 58, 60, 63-65,
76, 77, 98-100, 124-127, 138, 168,
186, 187, 206, 207
Rhine, L. E., 56, 63, 65, 87, 99
Richards, A., 72, 76
Richet, C., 205
Richmond, IL, 127
Richmond, N., 125
Riess, B. F., 68, 76, 95, 100
Rose, R., 100, 109, 124
Rush, J. H., 77
Saltmarsh, H. F., 127
Scherer, W. B., 138, 168
Schmeidler, G, R., 50, 64, 65, 92, 95,
98, 99, 125
Shulman, R., 98, 124
Sidgwick, H., 16, 122
Sinnott, E. W., 125
Smith, Bo M., 76, 89, 98, 99, 138
Snedecor, G. W., 187
Snowden, R. J., 63, 65
Soal, S. G., 47-48, 56, 58, 63, 69, 76,
207
Stuart, C. E., 76, 99, 168, 206
Tenhaeff, W. H. C., 206, 207
Thomas, J. F., 206
Thouless, R. H., 16, 65, 100, 138, 207
Tyrrell, G. N. M., 16, 54, 58, 64, 89,
169
van Busschbach, J. G., 50, 64, 107, 124,
137
Vasse, P., 125
Walker, R., 77
Wallwork, S. C., 127
Wasserman, G. D., 77
Webster, D. D., 169
West, D. J., 124, 127, 169
White, R., 124
Wiesner, B. P., 100
Wilks, S. S., 187
Woodruff, J.- L., 43, 63, 65, 99, 127
Yates, F., 187
Subject Index
Alcohol, use in psi testing, 113
American Indians, tested for psi, 82
American Institute of Mathematical Sta-
tistics, on ESP methods, 206
American Negro, psi tests with, 82
American Philosophical Association, 207
American Psychological Association, 44,
206
American Society for Psychical Re-
search, 205
Analysis of variance, as method of
evaluation, 180-181
Animals, tested for psi, 84-85, 111-113
cats, 85
dogs, 85
horses, 85
Anthropology,
relation to parapsychology, 23, 46,
109-111
Application of psi, 52, 101-104, 137
(See also Practices)
Aristotelian Society and Mind Associa-
tion, 206
Astrology, 83, 102
Attitude of subjects, importance in tests,
24, 34, 50, 92, 93, 95, 136-137
Australian aborigines, psi capacity of,
82, 100-111
Automatisms as psi manifestations, 15,
85, 102-104, 106
Bacterial growth as PK target, 117
Biology
animal behavior suggesting psi, 84-85
dominated by physicalist philosophy,
112-113
relation to parapsychology, 5-6, 11,
42, 111-113, 116-117
Bird navigation, psi a possible factor in,
84
Bund matching ESP test, 148-149, 159
Blindness and psi capacity, 83
Boston Society for Psychic Research,
206
Brain states and psi, 115 (See also
Physiology)
British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, Glasgow meeting,
205
British Society of Experimental Biolo-
gists, 207
BT test procedure 140-147, 157-158
Caffein, use in psi tests, 113-115
Cambridge University, studentship in
parapsychology, 206
Causality in parapsychology
dfcsb with precognition, 123
nonphysical, 71, 74
Chi-square tests of significance, 177-180
Children as test subjects, 95, 96, 107-
109
Ciba Foundation (London), 207
Clairaudience, 13
Clairsentience, 13
Clairvoyance, 13, 52, 55-56
definition or, 9
in experiments, 25-26, 32-33, 36, 37,
46-47, 50
in location of hidden objects, See
Dowsing
isolation of, 39-40,^53-54
relation to other psi'phenomena, 9-10,
51
test procedures, 146-150, 157-159
tested by machine, 54
tested by matching techniques, 54
CImical usage of psi methods, 28-29, 43
need of clinical tests, 80
Clock card test data, evaluation of, 183
Combination of critical ratios, 179
Communication, psi a form of, 52
217
218 PABAPSYCHOLOGY
Compulsions, as psi response, 85
Conclusive methods, 19-20, 30-39, 427
43, 156-168
criteria of conclusive tests met, 46-47,
52
described, 156-168
transition from exploratory methods,
30
Congress of Parapsychology, Interna-
tional, 207
Congress of Psychical Research, First
International, 206
Consistent missing, as a psi test effect,
89
Contingency test, applied to ESP data,
178
Control, difficult because psi uncon-
scious, 87, 88, 93
Controversy over psi, 37n, 44, 46, 75
Correlation method of evaluation, 180
Counterhypotheses to psi, 37-38, 47
(See Precautions against error
fraud)
involuntary whispering, 29
recording errors, precautions against,
35-37, 141-144, 164-167
sensory cues 140-141, 146-150, 159-
161
Criterion of significance, 185-186
Cryptesthesia, 13
Cultural factors in psi research, 101,
109-111
Deception, precautions against
in mediumship, 120
in psi tests, 37-39, 156
Decline in scoring, 48-49, 60-63
Design of Iresearch
advantages of planned program, 144-
145,156
procedures for conclusive testing,
156-168
Dexedrine, use in psi testing, 113-1 15
Dialectical Society of London, 205
Dice-throwing tests, See .Psychokutesis
Displacement elects, 48, 89
Distance, experiments involving, 47, 57,
66-69
Dowsing, 15, 23, 102-104
Dreams involving psi, 85, 87, 107
Drug tests in parapsychology, 113-114
DT test procedure, 147, 158-159
Dualism, 11, 72-73, 123 (See Mind-
matter relation)
Education, relation to parapsychology,
12, 50, 107-109
psi in teacher-pupil exchange, 107
Electroencephalography and psi tests,
114
Energy of psi phenomena, 74
ESP ( extrasensory perception ) , 12
definition of, 7-9
rating table for ESP results, 191
relations to PIC, 8-9, 70-71
statistical evaluation, 172-173
test procedures, 146-152, 157-168
ESP Record Pads available, 141n
ESP test-cards, 23-24, 140-141
authorized distributer of standard
cards, 24n, 140n
Ethics, relation to parapsychology, 12,
124
Evaluation of test data, 88, 144-145,
170-187 (See Statistical methods,
especially Chapter 9 )
Rating Tables, 191-193
Exact method of probability evaluation,
183-184
Experimental precautions, 32-35
E.xperimenters
attitude toward test, 26-27, 30-31,
48
experimenter-subject relations, 135-
137
failure of some, 131
influence of the, 131-132
possible error, 37-38
Exploratory methods, 19-29, 42-43
case study, 20-23
individual screening, 20, 23-26
pilot test, 20, 26-27
practical methods, 28-29, 43
re-examination of data, 20, 27-28, 41
test procedures, 140-155
transition to conclusive methods, 30
Extrasensory perception, See ESP
Extrasensory Perception, 206
SUBJECT INDEX 219
Extrasensory Perception after Sixty
Years, 178, 207
Failure in psi research
importance of experimenter, 131-132
Feeble-minded or subnormal, tested for
psi, 82
Feeling of conviction, in psi experience
spontaneous cases, 87-88
Financial aid to parapsychology
Mellon Educational and Charitable
Trust, 207
Office of Naval Research, 207
Parapsychology Foundation, 207
Rockefeller Foundation, 207
Freedom, volitional (Free will)
clash with precognition, 123
Fulbright travel grants in parapsy-
chology
first of, 207
GESP or general extrasensory percep-
tion
exceptional difficulties in controlling
tests, 32-33, 36-37, 181
in experiments, 25, 32-34, 36, 37, 47
test procedures, 150-151, 159-161
Green-thumb folk belief and PK, 117
Hallucinations involving psi, 85, 87, 106
Handbook for Testing Extra-sensory
Perception, 206
Handbook of Tests in Parapsychology,
140
Harvard University, 48, 206
Healing, unorthodox, 116
Hodgson Fund for Psychical Research,
206
Homing in ftTmt)fl1, psi as possible fac-
tor in, 84, 111
Human relations, bearing of psi on, 11
Hypnosis in relation to psi phenomena,
15, 46, 79, 96
Intelligence, relation to psi, 81-82
Intuition as a manifestation of psi, 85,
87, 106
Journal of Parapsychology, 139n, 206
Latin Square Method used in PK, 41, 62
Law of reaction, relation to PK, 59
Lawfulness of psi data, 50, 51
Length of test series, proper, 145
Lucidity, 13
Madiiiie-throwmg of dice in PK testing,
63, 165
Manifestations of psi, 85-86
indirect character of, 86
Matching techniques in ESP tests, 147-
150, 159
Mathematical techniques; See Statisti-
cal evaluation; oho Chapter 9
McDougall Award, 208
Mechanistic philosophy
dominates biological thought, 111
influence on psychology,78
refuted by parapsychology, 75, 119
Medicine, relation to parapsychology,
12, 115-118
Mediumship, 14, 23, 83, 102, 119-122
new methods, 121
Mellon (A. W.) Educational and Chari-
table Trust, 207
Mental hygiene, relation to parapsy-
chology, 12, 79-81 (See also Psy-
chopathology and Psychiatry)
Metapsychique, 12
Methoi of psi research, 17-44
conclusive, 19-20, 30-39
conclusive test procedures, 156-168
exploratory, 19-29, 42-43
exploratory test procedures, 140-155.
importance of using method proper to
stage, 168
in mediumship, 119-122
Migration of animals
psi a possible orienting factor, 84,
111-113
Mind-matter relation, 8, 11, 56, 72-78,
122-124
Motivation
children as subjects, 96
examples of high motivation, 94-95
hypnosis as aid to motivation, 96
importance in psi functioning, 94r-96
in the teacher-pupil relation, 107109
need to sustain motivation, 134
220 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Motivation (Continued)
psa-missing and motivation* 96-97
the primary consideration, 97
Multiple-calling data evaluated, 181
Negative deviation, See psi missing
Occultism. 14
Office "of Naval Research, 207
Opexwnatdbing ESP test procedure, 147
Organic effects of psi, possibility of, 116
Organic localization of psi, as yet un-
known, 86
Ouija board, 15
Palmistry, 83, 102
Paxametium in psi experiments, 117
Paranormal, 12
Paraphysiological, 12
Parapsychioal phenomena, 12 (See psi)
fi^ffTHTjQH or, 5, v
Panipsychological Association, 208
Parapsychologie, 12
Parapsychology
as natural science, 5, 6
bearing on T^+^ffoH*1
", 12, 66, 72-73
bearing on other fields, See Chapter 6
definition of, 5-7, 12
origins in 19th century, 66
subdivisions, 7-10
terms and concepts, 12-15
Parapsychology Laboratory,
of Duke University, 24, 46-49, 55-57,
60-63, 67-69, 72, 108, 140n,
141n, 206-208
of St. Joseph's College, 208
of Wayland College, 208
Partial perception (not all-or-none) in
ESP, 90-91
Pcarce-Pratt series, 46, 87-68
Perrott Studentship in Psychical Re*
search, 206
Perry Fellowships in Parapsychology,
207
Personality
correlation with psi scores, 9193
place of psi in, 85
spiritual element in, 119
Philosophical difficulty over psi, 59,
72-73, 112-113
comparison to mediaeval struggle of
science, 75
Philosophy
new problems found, 123
old problems solved, 123
relation of parapsychology, 12, 66,
72-73, 122-124
Photographic recording in dice tests,
34-35,36,63
Physicalism (physical monism), 113,
122-123
Physics, relation to parapsychology
(Chapter 4), 6, 10, 11, 51, 66-77,
122-124
Physiology, relation to parapsychology,
113-115
Physiological states and psi tests, 113-
118
Picture tests of ESP, evaluation of,
182-183
Pittsburgh, University of, 63, 207
PK, See Psychokinesis
Placement tests of PK (psychokinesis),
153-155, 164-167
rating table for results, 193
statistical evaluation of scores, 174
Plant growth as PK target, 117
Political thinking and new findings on
nature of man, 124
Practice and practitioners of psi
dowsing, 15, 23, 83, 102-104
mediumship, 23, 102
no practical mastery of psi, 83, 94
"Psi in practice," 101-104
Pratt and Woodruff experiment, 39, 47
Precautions against error, 18, 24-26, 29,
3S-39, 140-168
experimental precautions, 26, 32-35
from deception, 37-39
in PK tests, 152-155, 164-167
in recording, 26, 35-37, 141-144
sensory cues, 140-141, 14&-150, 159-
161
two-experimenter plan, 35-38, 47, 68,
156
Precognition, 13, 52, 56-59, 151-152,
162-163
SUBJECT INDEX 221
with causality and freedom* 123
definition of, 10
evidence, 57-59, 69-70
isolation of, 40-41
methods, 34, 36, 37, 56-58
PK as counterhypothesis, 57-58
relation to other psi phenomena, 51
target randomization methods, 58-59
test procedures described, 151-152,
162-163
Precognitive clairvoyance
counterhypothesis to telepathy, 40,
55-56
Precognitive telepathy
counterhypothesis to clairvoyance, 53
eliminated from clairvoyance tests,
40,54
Preferential matching, See Picture tests,
evaluation of
Probabilities of critical ratios, table o,
197
Probabilities of single ESP run scores,
table of, 197
Professional parapsychology
need of training for, 137
organization of society for, 208
Professorship in Parapsychology at
Utrecht, 207
PsX same as parapsychical (See atio
ESP and psychokinesis)
as energetic function, 74
as general to species, 82-84
as nonphysical, 6-11, 51, 66-78
as primitive function, 86-88
bearing on human relations, 11
bearing on theory of man, 75-76
blind subjects tested, 83
conditions affecting, 93-94
displacement effect, 89
efforts at application, 101-104
elusiveness of, 18,
51
essential to theories of mediumship,
119-122
ethnic comparisons, 82
evidence for, 53-64
fundamental to religion, 118-119
importance of motivation, 94-96
in animals, 84-85
in schoolroom tests, 50, 107-109
indirect evidence, 48-50
influence on living tissues, 113-118
kwfulness of, 50
localization unknown, 86
manifested through physical effects,
123
natural characteristics, 81
normal (healthy), 79-82
part of unity of nature, 73-76
perception partial; not all-or-none,
90-91
psi-missing, 89-93
rational consistency of, 51-52
receptors unknown, 85-86
relation to intelligence, 81-82
relation to materialism, 12, 66
relation to personality measures, 91-
93
relation to space and time, 11, 51,
52, 57, 66-70
single function, 10, 51
standards of evidence for, 53
types, 7-10, 39-42, 46, 51
unconscious, 87-88
voluntary, 86
Psi-missing, 89-93
and motivation, 96-97
and partial perception, 90-91
and teacher-pupil dislike, 108-109
cancellation effect, 95
possible importance to psychiatry,
107
some associated states, 91-93
Psychiatry,
common interest in unconscious
levels, 107
common phenomenology with para-
psychology, 106
need of clinical psi tests, 105
psi-missing may be significant for,
107
psi-tests in mental hospitals, 105
relation to parapsychology, 23, 46,
80, 105-107
Psychical research, 12
Psychoanalysis and parapsychology, 46,
106
Psycnogalvanic response in ESP test,
114
222 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Psychokinesis or PK, 13, 52
comrterhypothesis of precognition,
62-63
definition of, 7-9
diagonal decline, 61-63
effect on organic disorders, 116-117
evidence for, 49, 59-63
isolation of, 41
methods for testing, 34, 36, 37, 59-63
physical conditions of test, 72
physical limitations, question of, 72
placement tests of PK, 153-155, 164-
167
QD evidence, 41, 49-50, 59-63
rating tables for PK data, 192-193
reasonable to expect PK from ESP,
59
relation to other psi phenomena, 8, 9,
51
statistical evaluation, 195
test procedures for PK, 152-155, 164-
167
tests fully mechanized, 63
tests with face targets, 152-153, 164-
167
Psychological factors in testing, 17, 24-
26, 29, 67, 93-94, 131-137 (Chap-
ter 7)
adjustment in relation to psi, 80-81
good subjects made, not bom, 133
importance of experimenter, 131-132
Tnflintpnflnra of interest, 134135
motivation the primary factor, 97
need for spontaneity in subject's per-
formance, 134-136
preparing subject for test, 145-146
proper psychological conditions es-
sential, 131
psychological requirements for pre-
cognition tests, 163
right attitude for PK tests, 166-167
Psychology
vftnTHtlCTTi) To
psi, normal, 79
relation to parapsychology, 7, 10, 11,
42,46, 78
university departments and, para-
psychology, 46, 47
Psychometry, (See Token-object tests)
Psychopathology
psi tests in mental hospitals, 80
relation to parapsychology, 14-15,
79-81
Psychophysical relation, See Mind-mat-
ter relation
Psychosomatic Medicine, and psi func-
tion, 116-117
Psychotherapy, relation to parapsychol-
ogy, 12
Purpose in psi phenomena, 71
Quarter distribution or QD, 41, 49
Radiesthesia, See Dowsing
Randomizing targets
for precognition tests, 151, 162-163
Latin Square method in PK, 41, 62
shuffling cards for ESP tests, 141
use of random number tables, 157
Rating tables for evaluating test data,
191-193
Rational acceptability of parapsychol-
ogy, 44, 50-52, 70, 73-76
Receptors or receiving organs of psi not
known, 85-86
Recognition of parapsychology by other
scientists, 78
Record sheets, standard, for ESP tests,
141-144
Recording errors, precautions against,
35-37, 141-144
special problems in PK tests, 164-167
Regression coefficient method of evalua-
tion, 180
Relation of psi test scores
to extroversion-introversion, 93, 97-98
to intelligence, 81-82
to interest patterns, 93
to other data evaluated, 178
to personality measures, 91-93
to physiological accompaniments, 93
to self-confidence, 98
to subject's attitude, 92-93, 98
Relationship between two sets of data
evaluated, 178
Religion
basic assumptions involve psi, 119
may be affected by new facts, 124
SUBJECT INDEX 223
relation to parapsychology, 12, 23,
11&-122
Repeatability, so-called, (repeated suc-
cess), 107-109, 136-137 (See van
. Busschbach school series)
Research Fellowships, 208
Retrocognition, 13
Rewards, effect on psi test performance,
94, 95
Rockefeller Foundation, 207
Royal Institution of Great Britain, dis-
course on parapsychology, 207
Royal Society of Medicine, address on
parapsychology, 207
Safeguards, See Precautions against error
Schmeidler's Sheep-Goat Series, 50, 92-
93,95
Schoolroom experiments in ESP, 50,
107-109, 136-137
Science and religion, relation between,
119
Scientific method, stages of, 19
Screened touch-matching, 149, 159
Seed germination in PK tests, 117
Sensorimotor system, comparison with
psi, 8, 52, 59
Shuffling of cards in ESP tests, 141
Significance, standard of, 185-186
Significant events in parapsychology,
205-208
Significant extrachance results, 47-50
criterion of significance, 185-186
Soal and Bateman Series, 69
Soal and Goldney Series, 47-48, 58
Society for Psychical Research (Lon-
don), 205
Sodium amytal, use in psi tests, 113-115
Species characteristic, psi suggested as,
82-84
Spirit communication, See Spirit-sur-
vival
Spirit survival 14, 119-122
challenge of psi investigations, 121
hypothesis inconclusive, 121-122
Spiritual nature of man, relation to
parapsychology,
118-119
Spiritualism, 14, 120
Spontaneity of subject's interest, im-
portance to success, 134-136
Spontaneous cases, 5, 42, 45-46, 51, 54-
55, 56-57, 59, 82, 87
basis of religious phenomena, 118
case study method, 20-23
cases encountered by psychiatrists,
106
Duke collection, 56
evidence of psi in, 45-46
feeling of certainty in, 87
healthy and normal, 79
in animals, 84-85, 111-113
strength of attachment, motivation,
94
Standard deviations for ESP card tests,
table of, 194
Standard deviations for PK tests, table
of, 195-196
Standard test procedures, importance of,
43
Standards of evidence, 53, 59
Stanford University Laboratory of Psy-
chical Research, 206
Statistical evaluation of results, 23, 31
32, 144-145, 170-172
chi-square and other methods, 177
185
criterion of significance, 185-186
evaluation of total scores, 172-174
general requirements for, 170-172
statistical tables, 194-197
text discussion of statistical tables, 172
St. Joseph's College, 20&
Student's t test of evaluation, 180
Subject-experimenter relations, impor-
tant to success in tests", 135-137
Subjects (as test participants)
attitudes, 24, 34, 50, 92-93, 95, 137
"good" subjects made, not bom, 133
preparing subject for test, 145-146
psychological needs of, 133-135
spontaneity, 134-136
sustained interest essential, 134-135
Success in psi investigations
a fine art in interpersonal relations,
134
influence of the experimenter, 131-
132
224 PARAPSYCHOLOGY
Supernatural, 12
Supernormal, 12
Symposia on ESP
American Philosophical Association,
207
American Psychological Association,
44, 206
Aristotelian Society and Mind Asso-
ciation, 206
British Society of Experimental Bi-
ologists, 207
Giba Foundation, 207
Tables of random sampling numbers,
157n, 162
Targets in psi tests
alternation of target area in PK place-
ment tests, 155
order in clairvoyance tests, 141, 157
order in precognition tests, 151, 162*
163
order in telepathy tests, 40
order of target face in PK tests, 41, 62
range of targets, 70
Taririo College, 88
Teacher-pupil attitudes and ESP scores,
107-109, 136-137
Telekinesis, 13
Telepathy, 11, 13, 25, 33-34
attempts at isolation, 40, 55-56
definition of, 9
in experiments, 32-33, 37, 56 (See
dw GESP tests)
methods, 33-34
popular interest in, 55
relation to clairvoyance, 9-10
relation to other psi phenomena, 51
special difficulties in testing, 55
Tdesthesia, 13
Testing techniques, 17, 23-24, 31, 33-
34, 36 (See Part II, Chapters 7,
8, 9)
ESP card-matching techniques, 33
experimental procedures, Chapter 8
psychological recommendations,
Chapter 7
screened touch-matching, 33
statistical techniques, Chapter 9
"heories of man, bearing of psi on,
75-76
'ime and psi, 69-70 ( See Precognition)
'oken-object tests, 13
Trance, 15, 119-122
Tumer-Ownbey series, 68
Two-experimenter plan, 35-38, 47, 68,
156
Unconsciousness of psi function, 87-58,
107
unusual effects, 88-93
Unity of nature, place of psi in, 73-76,
123
University of Utrecht, 206
chair of parapsychology, 207
congress of parapsychology, 207
Unorthodox healing, possible bearing of
psi on, 116
van Busschbach Schoolroom Series, 50,
107-109, 136-137
Verbal material, evaluation of, 181
Voluntary nature of psi, 86
Walter Franklin Prince Memorial Fel-
lowships, 206
Wayland College, 208
Yates correction for discontinuity, 179n
Yoga, 83
