{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V13 1907-8","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v13_1907-8.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V13 1907-8","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XIII
1907-1908
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
All rights reserved
1950C
No. CCXXXV.—VOL. XIII. JANUARY, 1907.
•i' ,-.
JOURNAL;
OF THE '• . • '
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
New Members and Associates, - - 2
Meeting of the Council, ... 2
Private Meeting for Members and
Associates, 3
Mysterious Lights, 8
i'AC*
A Medical Society for the Study of -
Hypnotism, 14
Automatic (?) Phenomena, 15
Notice to Members of the Society
residing in America, 16
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On WEDNESDAY, JANUARY yxh, 1907, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
(C The Case of Sally Beauchamp '
WILL BE READ BY
MR. W. M'DOUGALL, M.Sc., M.B.
N.B.—Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
Journal of Socifty' -for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
NEW; MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Members are printed in Black Type.
Jfafnes of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Ap^LEfcY, HOWARD LAWTON, The Grammar School, Ripon, Yorks.
RmeR'oFT, Miss MARGARET, Haddonfield, New Jersey, U.S.A.
\T5te\JWN, WILLIAM, B.A., St. Paul's School, West Kensington,
London, W.
CALDERON, GEORGE LESLIE, 33 Buckingham Mansions, West End
Lane, London, N.W.
Davis, Charles, 29 Gloucester Place, Portman Sq., London, W.
.GROFF, Miss MARY A., 1914 Vine Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
HARDIE, Miss MABEL, M.B., M.A., High Lane, Nr. Stockport.
HEATH, MRS., North Breach Manor, Ewhurst, Guildford, Surrey.
KIRKWOOD, J. H. M., Yeo Vale, Fairy Cross, S.O., N. Devon.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hadlow Park, Tonbridge.
PYM, Miss DOROTHY, 35 Cranley Gardens, London, S.W.
PYM, LESLIE RUTHVEN, Silsoe, Ampthill, Bedfordshire.
SHELDON, A. F., Vendome Hotel, 62nd and Monroe Sts., Chicago,
111., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 81st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, December 14th, 1906, at
3 p.m.—Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Mr. Sydney Olivier, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. A. F. Shand, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Lieut-
Colonel Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. L. Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
Mr. V. J. Woolley, and Miss Alice Johnson, Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read, and signed as
correct.
Two new Members and eleven new Associates were elected.
The names and addresses are given above.
The monthly account for November was presented and
read.
JAN., 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 17th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only was
held in the large Hall at 2 0 Hanover Square, London, W., on Friday,
December 14th, 1906, at 4 p.m.—Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair.
Miss ALICE JOHNSON read a paper on " Some Recent
Sittings for Physical Phenomena in America," of which the
following is an abstract :
Some time ago at one of the meetings of the Society, a
description had been given by Dr. J. H. Gower of some
remarkable physical phenomena—in particular the movements
of heavy tables untouched by any one and in a good light—
which he had witnessed in the course of the last few years
in a private circle of his own friends, with no professional
medium among them, in a town in one of the Western
States of America. Dr. Gower having invited Miss Johnson
to take part in these sittings, she went to America last
August, and spent nearly a month in the town where they
were held, attending during that time eighteen sittings in four
different houses. The phenomena witnessed were—she was told
—about up to the average level of the sittings, but no decisive
movements of large objects that were clearly without contact
with any of the sitters occurred. These, however, were stated
to have happened only some half-a-dozen times during the
four or five years that the sittings had been going on.
The description of the sittings was prefaced by a brief
discussion of the general value of evidence for physical
phenomena. It was pointed out that this must from the
nature of the case be less reliable than evidence for psychical
phenomena, such as telepathy, since the latter is derived from
mental impressions—the only things of which we have any
direct knowledge—whereas the former is derived from the
inferences drawn from mental impressions as to what is
happening in the external world, and inferences may, of
course, be fallacious.
Moreover, since there is always the possibility that any indi
vidual observation may be erroneous, more evidence is required
—and in practice is always demanded—for the objective reality
of events that are alleged to occur only very rarely than
for those that occur more frequently.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
Miss Johnson made the acquaintance of 21 of the sitters
(besides Dr. Gower), who all talked freely to her about their
previous experiences, and gave all possible help in the investi
gation. None of them was accustomed to go into trance, or
to exhibit any of the usual symptoms of " mediumship," but
the phenomena seemed chiefly to centre round one of them,
here called Mrs. Williams.
This lady was present at 12 of the sittings, 3 of which
were blanks. At the other 9, abundant raps were heard,
both when the sitters' hands were on the table, and to a
less extent when they were off; tilts and other movements
of the table occurred with the sitters' hands on it, and a
few movements apparently without contact.
Miss Johnson came to the general conclusion that nearly
everything she witnessed—that is, not only the table-tiltings
and movements with contact, but also the raps—could be
explained by the automatic muscular action of the sitters. In
the case of the raps, several occasions were described in
detail when movements of the feet or knees—either synchro
nising with the raps or apparently connected with them—
were observed. Miss Johnson believed, however, that these
movements were performed with complete unconsciousness.
At one sitting, the last at which Mrs. Williams was able
to be present, she, Dr. Gower, and Miss Johnson, were sitting
alone at a small four-legged table, which had a ledge connecting
the four legs at a height of 9f ins. from the floor. Twice this
table, after tilting on to one leg, gave a rapid jump and
came down on to the diagonally opposite leg, which alighted
at a spot only an inch or two from where the first leg had
stood, before the other legs fell to the ground. It will be
seen that this movement involves all four legs being off
the ground at once. Later in the evening, the same table
suddenly rose horizontally to a height of 5 or 6 ins. from
the floor and went straight down again. In all cases, the
hands of the three sitters named were resting on the surface
of the table, and the only normal way of raising it under
these circumstances seemed to be by lifting the lower ledge
with the foot. Since the room was well lighted, and all that
went on was being carefully watched, it was very difficult to
suppose that any one of the sitters could have raised the
JAN., 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 5
table in this way without making some movement that would
have been visible to the others who were watching.
Miss Johnson went on to discuss, in reference to the
raps which she had described, the differences between fraudulent
and automatic mediumistic phenomena, maintaining that the
burden of proof rests with those who allege that an apparently
fraudulent performance is automatic. No test is known by
which it can be determined whether a given action is performed
consciously or not ; yet probably all competent persons who
have studied trance conditions are convinced that actions are
sometimes performed entirely without the cognisance of the
supraliminal consciousness. In cases of automatism we find,
among considerable variations of form, certain common character
istics which it is by no means easy to simulate, partly perhaps
because it is so difficult to formulate them ; and through
comparing what had occurred at these sittings with other cases
she had seen, Miss Johnson was personally convinced that the
raps were produced automatically and not by deliberate intent,
though she recognised how slight the grounds for this opinion
must appear to any one else. She maintained that such an
explanation should be restricted to cases where there is strong
positive ground for confidence in the honesty of the medium
and where the phenomena are of a nature that does not
require preparation, either in the way of long practice or of
apparatus. Thus in the case of Eusapia Paladino, the fraud
most clearly proved against her, viz. : making one hand or foot
do duty for two and so getting one free, is a well-known
trick, her extraordinary adeptness in which showed that she
must have practised it for a long time. Similarly the actions
of mediums who have been caught personating " spirit forms "
by means of drapery and other apparatus involving elaborate
preparation, cannot of course be attributed to automatism.
It was obviously far more difficult—though perhaps not
quite impossible—to apply the explanation of automatism to
the levitations of the table which Miss Johnson had witnessed,
and it seemed altogether inapplicable to the more decisive
movements without contact that were reported by the other
witnesses to have occurred at the earlier sittings.
Her observations on the raps, which were not associated
exclusively with the presence of any one sitter, seemed to
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
illustrate the infectious nature of automatic actions which
has often been observed in other cases, and tend perhaps to
throw light on the more wide-spread epidemic of rapping
that followed the outbreak in the Fox family in 1848. In
this case the rappings became pronounced in hundreds of
families in the Eastern States of America, and it seems
reasonable to suppose that, while the phenomenon—like the
table-tiltings that became so prevalent a few years later—
was in some cases deliberately produced, in many others it
was genuinely automatic.
MR. F. C. CONSTABLE asked whether the raps heard by Miss
Johnson had any distinctive character, such as had been
described by Professor de Morgan and other early observers.
If so, it was difficult to suppose that they had been produced,
as she had suggested, by a number of different movements
made by different persons.
Miss JOHNSON replied that the raps, though very similar,
were not always exactly the same in sound : thus, once she
thought they sounded like drops of water falling on a hard
surface, which was probably the kind of sound that Professor
de Morgan had heard ; generally they resembled the different
sounds that may be produced by the knocking or rubbing or
scraping of various objects on one another.
SIR OLIVER LODGE observed that supposing " physical
phenomena " were genuine, it was probable that they were
associated with some cause or influence emanating from the
body of the medium. The occurrences sometimes were such
AS to suggest a sort of nervous explosion or stimulus giving
rise to muscular actions in the body at the same time that
it affected objects at a little distance from the body. He
believed that he had witnessed something of this kind in the
case of Eusapia Paladino ; especially on one occasion when,
under full control, in fair light, she made gestures towards
an escritoire, and it moved slightly away from her at each
of her movements, there being a clear space—not less than
two feet—visible between her and it. If the force was not
very strong, it might be possible to move objects only very
close to the medium.
Miss JOHNSON said that she agreed in thinking the theory
of physical phenomena suggested by Sir Oliver Lodge was the
JAN., 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 7
most probable one, but pointed out that if objects could only
be moved when they were very close to the medium, it became
extremely difficult to prove that any supernormal force was
involved.
A GENTLEMAN remarked that if these supposed supernormal
forces existed, one would expect them to be occasionally
manifested in a disturbing way in the ordinary operations,
e.g. of machinery ; since among the thousands of persons engaged
in working machinery, a few might be expected to possess
mediumistic powers. Also when sitting at a table to play
cards, as so many people did constantly, one would expect
that raps or levitations would sometimes happen. The fact
that these occurrences only seemed to happen when people
were " sitting for " them suggested that they might often be
illusions due to expectancy.
SIR OLIVER LODGE said he thought the objections raised by
the last speaker reasonable ; but that there were two possible
answers to them, (1) if machinery often went wrong in the
presence of any particular workman, it was very likely that
his post would be given to somebody else ; (2) that these
phenomena—if genuine at all—were certainly very rare and
might easily escape observation on many occasions when they
did occur ; especially since they only seemed to happen in
the presence of exceptional people, and perhaps only when
these were in an exceptional state. We were still so ignorant
of the whole matter that we did not really know what to
expect ; but one thing he felt assured of, viz. that illusion
or hallucination was not the explanation of the abnormal
movements he himself had observed.
MRS. SIDGWICK, in reference to the question of hallucinations
occurring at seances, said that there were several instances
recorded of figures which were clearly hallucinatory being seen
at D. D. Home's stances.
Miss JOHNSON said that she had gone to these sittings with
the idea that hallucination was a possible explanation of the
results reported, but though she still regarded it in general
as the most rational explanation of any " physical phenomena "
not produced by normal causes, such as fraud or automatism,
she had come to the conclusion that it was not at all events
the main factor in this case. In reply to a question from
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
Mr. Piddington as to whether she thought the levitations of the
table which she had described could have been hallucinatory,
she replied that if the case were to be explained on that
ground, all that need be supposed would be that one of the sitters
raised the table by normal means, and perhaps automatically :
while the two others—or perhaps all three—had a negative
hallucination in regard to the movement by which it was
done. This would be similar to what constantly happens
in conjuring performances, when the particular action that
does the trick escapes the notice of the spectators.
MYSTEEIOUS LIGHTS.
THE following paper on some mysterious lights seen in Bay
Chaleur, New Brunswick, appeared in the Bulletin of the
Natural History Society of New Brunswick, No. XXIV.,
Vol. V., Part IV, 1906, under the title "The Fact Basis
of the Fire (or Phantom) Ship of Bay Chaleur," and was
sent to Mr. Fryer by the author, Mr. W. F. Ganong, by
whose kind permission it is reprinted here. The subject is
of interest in connection with the somewhat similar lights
seen in connection with the religious revival in Wales,
which were described in Mr. Fryer's paper in Part LI. of
the Proceedings.
One cannot be long in the Bay Chaleur country, especially its
eastern part, without hearing of the fire (or phantom) ship, said
often to be seen on the bay. Until a short time ago I regarded
the fire-ship as a pure fiction, with no basis other than the proneness
of humanity to see wonders where they are expected, or where
others say they exist. But as a result of two visits to that country,
during which I questioned many residents on the subject, I have
had to change my opinion ; and I now believe there is really some
natural phenomenon in that region which manifests itself in such a
way as to be imaginable as a vessel on fire.
First we note the literature of the subject. Naturally the imagin
ative writers who have visited Bay Chaleur have seized upon the
story of the fire-ship as a rare treasure, and .adding to the wildest
local tales sundry fanciful imaginings of their own, with embellish
ments of banshees, pirates or picturesque historical personages, have
produced weird fantasies such as are preferred to truth even by
JAN., 1907. Mysterious Lights. 9
grown-up persons. A type of such stories is found in Miss E. B.
Chase's Quest of the Quaint (Philadelphia, 1902), which connects the
ship with the voyages of the Cortereals, making it a vessel set on
fire by one of them when attacked by the Indians. From such a
treatment there is every gradation, through many newspaper, guide
book and other accounts up to serious descriptions of the phenomenon
as something with a probable fact basis. The best account of the
latter type that I have seen, written apparently by Mr. A. M. fielding,
appeared some years ago in the St. John Sun. It reads in part as-
follows :
" The extent to which a visitor may be impressed by the story
of the phantom ship depends a good deal on the source of the
information. Hon. Robert Young [of Caraquet] will tell you, for
example, that frequently at night before a storm a large light may
be seen on the surface of the bay. It may be seen in winter, when
the ice has formed, as well as in summer, and it is not confined
to any one portion of -he bay. Sometimes it is much brighter than
at other times and appears to dance along the surface. Joseph
Poirier said he had seen it so bright that the reflection would appear
on the houses at Grande Anse. Rev. Father Allard said he had
seen it several times this season. In fact it appears to be quite a
common phenomenon, though nobody is able to explain its cause. . . .
Those who decline to place full reliance in this interesting story [viz.
the fanciful legend] nevertheless admit that sometimes the mysterious
light emits rays that shoot into and athwart the gloom, and might
by a particularly well-nourished imagination be likened to the flame-
lit rigging of a ship."
The information I have myself been able to collect from those
who have seen the light is as follows. Of course I have sifted all
testimony to the best of my ability, eliminating all exaggerations
and embellishments, whether these be due to the habit of all
humanity to make a story as big and good as possible, or to the
common tendency to gull an impressionable stranger, or to mere
ignorance, superstition or mendacity.
Four years ago Captain Turner of Riverside, Albert County, a
clear-headed sea captain, told me, in answer to my mention of the
fire-ship as a freak of the imagination, that he had himself seen it
and hence knew it to exist. Later, on my first visit to Caraquet,
I was told by a lady in whose word I have absolute confidence,
that her attention was attracted one night by a light off Caraquet,
which looked so much like a vessel afire that she supposed it to be
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAS., 1907.
one of her husband's schooners, and called him in alarm, only to
find that it was the fire-ship. A prominent resident of Miscou, Mr.
James Harper, told me he has seen it but once, in the winter on
the ice off Clifton. It was seemingly some ten miles away and kept
rising and falling, dying down to a very small scarcely visible flame,
then rising slowly into a column "looking thirty feet high." It
was not in the form of a ship, but a column, but people told him
it was the fire-ship. He was told it preceded a storm, but he
took notice and no storm followed. Mr. Robert Wilson of Miscou,
who sails much on Bay Chaleur, tells me he has seen the fire-ship
(or as he calls it, the "burning ship") several times. The time
he was nearest it was about eleven years ago off Caraquet on a very
dark night. The light appeared ahead, and finally he came near
and passed within 100 yards to windward of it, so that he saw it
with perfect clearness. It was somewhat the shape of a half-moon
resting on the water, flat side down, or like a vessel on the water
with a bowsprit but no masts, etc., and "all glowing like a hot coal."
He dared not run nearer and passed it, keeping his eyes upon it
until far beyond. On other occasions he has seen it, at various
•distances, and has come to pay little attention to it. Sometimes
it looked somewhat like a ship, sometimes not, and sometimes it
vanished while he was watching it. Usually it is dancing or vibrat
ing. Again he has seen it as one tall light which would settle down
and rise again as three, which would again settle, and so on.
Recently I have been told by Dr. J. Orne Green of Boston, whose
connection with Miscou is mentioned below, that Mr. Wilson reports
seeing the light this (1905) autumn; it appeared ahead of his boat
as he sailed up the bay, vanished as he neared it, and in a few
minutes re-appeared astern. Mr. Andrew Wilson, another leading
resident of Miscou, has also seen it, when it resembled a whaleboat,
not a ship, in form. Mr. M'Connell, keeper of the light at Miscou
Gulley, tells me that he has seen the fire-ship, about two miles
away, but it did not look to him like a ship, but more like a big
bonfire. Several others have told me that they have seen it (the
great majority, of the residents in the region averring that they
have seen it at one time or another), most of them agreeing that
at times it looks like a ship on fire, but at others more like a
round light. All agree that it usually precedes a storm, and is
seen over the ice in winter as well as over the water in summer.
On the other hand, other trustworthy residents of Miscou, notably
Mr. Jas. Bruno and Mr. Ed. Vibert, both of whom sail much on
JAN., 1907. Mysterious Lights. 11
the bay, tell me they have never seen it, and do not believe in its
existence.
So much for local testimony. But it receives confirmation from
another source. For many years past Dr. J. Orne Green of Boston,
a Professor in the Harvard Medical School, has spent several weeks
on Miscou and has taken a great interest in all that relates to the
region. He tells me that he has himself seen a light which he
was told was the fire-ship. Many years ago when running at night
towards Caraquet he saw a fire off in the bay, and called the attention
of his companions to it, but finally thought it must be a woods fire
on the north side of the bay. Reaching Caraquet, however, he
found the people excited, because they said the fire-ship was out
in the bay. He told them of his belief that it was a woods fire,
but they declared this could not be, because it had moved. The
wind at the time was gentle, from the southwest, but it was
followed the next day by a great northwester. His interest being
thus aroused Dr. Green, in later years, attempted to investigate the
phenomenon. He found that it was reported not only in Bay Chaleur
but also in the Gulf of St. Lawrence as far south as Northumberland
Straits. He came to the conclusion that while the stories were
mostly exaggerated and distorted there was nevertheless some basis
for them in fact, and that there does occur in this region some
natural light of the general nature of "St. Elmo's Fire." This was
exactly the conclusion to which I had come independently, as stated
in this note when originally read before this Society.
Grouping together all the evidence it seems plain,—first, that a
physical light is frequently seen over the waters of Bay Chaleur
and vicinity ; second, that it occurs at all seasons, or at least in winter
as well as in summer ; third, that it usually precedes a storm ; fourth,
that its usual form is roughly hemispherical with the flat side to
the water, and that at times it simply glows without much change
of form, but that at other times it rises into slender moving columns,
giving rise to an appearance capable of interpretation as the flaming
rigging of a ship, its vibrating and dancing movements increasing
the illusion ; fifth, its origin is probably electrical, and it is very
likely a phase of the phenomenon known to sailors as St. Elmo's
lire.
I have, of course, made efforts to ascertain if any such phenomenon
is known elsewhere in the world. Professor R. De C. Ward, Assistant
Professor of Climatology in Harvard University, writes me that he
knows of no record of a similar phenomenon, and no development
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
of St. Elmo's Fire so great that it could be mistaken for a burning
ship. Professor A. H. Pierce, my companion in my visit to this
region last summer, has, however, called my attention to references to
an allied subject in the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research,
[Vol.] XII. (1905), 108, and again in the Proceedings of the same
Society, [Vol.] XIX. (1905), 80, where an account is given of lights
claimed to have been seen around Tremadoc Bay in Wales ; but the
conclusion is reached that in all probability they have onty a
subjective basis, though the statement is also made that lights of
unexplained origin were reported as common on the Welsh coast
over two hundred years ago. It is also of interest to note that
Sch'mitt's newly published Monographic de I'Isle d'Anticosli (57) men
tions manifestations of St. Elmo's Fire observed at that island. . . .
As to the natural features of the country, both in Wales
and New Brunswick, where these lights are seen, Miss G-. L.
Elles, Lecturer in Geology at Newnhara College and Assistant
Demonstrator in Geology to the Woodwardian Professor at
Cambridge, writes to us :
October list, 1906.
... On the subject of the mysterious "lights" said to have been
seen in Wales in connection with the recent religious revival, I [have
consulted] a geological friend of mine who has been working in the
Tremadoc district for several years past. . . . He agrees with me
that the country all round Tremadoc Bay is just the place where
one might reasonably expect natural emanations of gas. The ground
is for the most part very boggy and marshy, and even up on the
hills behind, in all the places where, so far as I can gather, the
"lights" have been seen, there are considerable tracts of bog land.
My friend has seen them himself at Tremadoc, and is satisfied as
to their occurrence in these places. He also says that he has noticed
a similar sort of light visible at some distance which must have
been caused by decaying animal matter in a ditch. The phenomenon
is generally noticeable when the barometer is low ; that is, of course,
[it] is directly connected with the state of the atmosphere at the
time. I do not think the geological formation has anything to do
with it more than that boggy land is apt to result from the wear
and tear of certain rock types rather than others.
So far as I can ascertain,—but I have been unable to verify this
absolutely,—there are similar sorts of shale and slate rocks abutting
on Bay Chaleur, and therefore probably there is boggy land there
JAN., 1907. Mysterious Lights. 13
also, but these are not of the same age as those of Tremadoc Bay,
though both are Palaeozoic. I consider, therefore, that you might
get similar phenomena wherever bog land was present, provided that
the state of the atmosphere was suitable. With regard to the fact
that the light at Bay Chaleur was seen on the water, it is perfectly
possible for the gas to move out over the water as well as anywhere
else, and it frequently assumes the most curious forms.
G. L. ELLES.
Mr. Ganong writes to Mr. Fryer on the same subject as
follows :
NORTHAMPTON, MASS., November 6th, 1906.
. . . As to Chaleur Bay where the lights are seen, I know the
region well. There is really no boggy or marshy land around it.
On the north side, the coast rises abruptly into beautiful mountains,
rising in the interior to over four thousand feet. The south coast
is low and composed of sandstones, sometimes forming bluffs of
•one hundred feet, sometimes sinking to sea level, and overlaid by
the sand beaches. I do not think there is any low ground or
marshy or boggy borders on the bay except in very few and local
places. However, this coast is steadily sinking, and it is possible
that bogs and marshes had existence where there is now ocean.
There is no shale or solid rocks in the vicinity where the lights
are seen, only sandstones, etc. A point of possible importance,
however, occurs to me. These sandstones are of the same character
as others in the south of New Brunswick, which contain oil,
though, so far as I know, no such substance is known around Bay
•Chaleur. As to the depth of the bay, it increases steadily outward
from the coast. I enclose a sketch map giving the principal
•details taken from the official Admiralty chart of the bay. The
lights are seen at all distances from the shore, sometimes so close
as to seem in Caraquet Harbor, less than a mile across, at other
times so distant that they could be taken for lights across the
bay which is thirty miles distant. The fishermen say they are
rather frequent near the herring banks, some two or three miles from
the coast. I think these points cover all the inquiries in your
letter. Since my article was written, I have received two or three
letters from observers who know the lights well, and they strongly
confirm the correctness of the chief statements in my article. One
recent correspondent told me that they had been observed recently
through a good glass and had very much the appearance I
•described. . . W. F. GANONG.
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
A MEDICAL SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF
HYPNOTISM.
THE General Practitioner for November 24th, 1906, announces
that a meeting of medical men was held at the residence of
Dr. Lloyd Tuckey, 88 Park Street, Grosvenor Square, London,
on Thursday, November 8th, 1906, with the object of forming
a Society of Registered Medical Practitioners who are interested
in the study and practice of hypnotic suggestion : the aims
of such society being to facilitate the study thereof, and bring
its claims as a therapeutic agent more prominently before the
profession at large. Letters of apology were read from Sir
Francis Cruise, M.D., of Dublin ; Dr. George Kerr, of Edin
burgh ; Dr. Edwin Ash, of London ; Dr. Montague Rust,
Newport, Fife ; Dr. Hope Simpson, Liverpool ; and Dr. Woods,
Harley Street, London. The society was constituted under
the title, proposed by Dr. Bramwell, of " The Medical Society
for the Study of Suggestive Therapeutics," and Dr. Lloyd
Tuckey was unanimously elected as its first President. Dr.
A. Betts Taplin, of Sefton Park, Liverpool, was elected Hon.
Secretary, and Dr. Douglas Bryan, of Leicester, Treasurer. The
following rule as to membership of the new Society was
passed : " That the membership of the society be limited to-
registered medical practitioners ; and secondly, that no such
shall be eligible for membership who are connected in any
way with any non-medical society which has for its object
the treatment of disease by unqualified persons, whether by
hypnotism or otherwise." About thirty medical men have
already joined the Society, amongst whom, besides those
mentioned above, are : Dr. R. W. Felkin, of Kensington, Drs.
M'Clure and MacLennan, of Glasgow, Dr. Hugh Wingfield,
of Winchester, Dr. Percy Allan, of Croydon, etc.
It is hoped that in time this Society may rival in im
portance the nourishing French Societe d'Hypnotisme et de
Psychologie. Its formation in any case marks an important step
in the study of Hypnotism in England. Though it was to
English medical men—in especial, Braid, Elliotson and Esdaile—
that so much of the early progress in Hypnotism was due, in
later years English medical science has lagged behind that of
other countries in this subject. The more recent revival of
JAN., 1907. A Medical Society for the Study of Hypnotism. 15
serious interest in it here is, we are proud to think, chiefly
to be attributed to the work of the two medical members
of our own Council, Dr. Bramwell and Dr. Tuckey.
AUTOMATIC (?) PHENOMENA.
WE print the following account received a year or two
ago from Cesarea, Turkey, as an illustration of the similarity
of phenomena of this kind in all parts of the world. The
account strongly suggests that the scratching and raps were
made unconsciously and automatically by the medium himself,
as was thought by Miss Johnson to be the case in the sittings
described at the meeting of the Society reported above. We
have tried in vain to obtain a further report and more
detailed observations of the case. The account has been
verbally modified in the few places where the writer's English
required correction.
TATAS, CESAREA, TURKEY, February 22nd, 1905.
I am an Armenian Protestant, a graduate of Central Turkey
College in Aintab, and now a teacher in the American Boys' School
in Talas. I am very much interested in psychology, and should
like you to know the result of my investigation, which I am still
carrying on.
In Cesarea there is a house in which a man, 24 years old, lives
with his wife. The man has a gloomy and peculiar look. He
talks when asleep, sometimes swoons He is a poor, common^
uneducated man. Before he moved into this house he was told
the house was haunted by a ghost. He says he did not mind it.
He worked in the dark and damp cellar of a room in the house
a long time. About two months ago he began to hear some
scratching sound on the mat on which he sat. Finding no animal
or a man that could make the sound, he was startled, also his
wife and others. Then there was heard in the floor and in other
parts of the room some raps, which the people in the house found
to be able to answer questions. So many men and women visited
the house and asked questions, which were answered rightly. I
went too, and asked many questions whose answers / knew. The
number of the raps was right. I must tell you that I asked the
questions in English, and no one of the persons knew English there.
Some of the questions were : " How old am I ? " " How many
pounds did I pay to the rug-seller to-day ? " etc. Although a few
of the answers were wrong, most of them were right. Then I
began to ask some questions whose answers 1 did not know, but
the answers were not right. For example, I took a handful of
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1907.
money without looking at my purse and asked, "How many piasters
have I in my hand?" I repeated this three times, and the answers
were two less than in my hand ; that is, the number of raps were
25, 7, 39, instead of 27, 9, 41, which were right. Yet I heard a
scratching after the raps in all cases when the answers were wrong.
I asked, "If you are a ghost rap five times," and the answer
was five raps. I said again, if you are a girl's ghost, rap so many,
«tc. I asked many questions that I need not mention to you, as
I have not any definite idea of them. But the following points are
especially to be noted. (1) The man mentioned seems to be a
medium because (a) the raps will occur in his presence, (b) around
him, and (c) if he asks a question the raps are more intense, (d)
and, according to his statement, when he is sure that the answer will
be right, it is so, otherwise wrong. (1) The man has some peculiar
look and mental state as stated above. (3) In the presence of
sceptical people this will not occur in general. (4) The raps were
weak at the start, then it grew louder and more frequent, now it
grows weaker. (5) The raps are louder and more frequent in the
night than in the daytime. (6) I tried to find out if there is
any fraud in the matter, but I could not find anything. (7)
Hundreds of people visited the house without paying anything.
LEVON S. SIVASLIAN.
NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY RESIDING
IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
THE W. B. CLARKE Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.,
have been appointed Agent to the Society for Psychical
Research in America.
Members and Associates living in America are requested
to pay their subscriptions, as they become due, to the W. B.
CLARKE Co.
The subscription of Members is Ten dollars annually, or
a single payment of One hundred dollars ; the subscription
of Associates is Five dollars annually, or a single payment of
Fifty dollars. These subscriptions are due immediately on
election and subsequently on the first day of January in
each year.
Orders for extra copies of publications on the special terms
allowed to Members and Associates should also be sent by
American Members and Associates to the W. B. CLARKE Co.,
to whom payments for the same should be made.
No. CCXXXVL—VOL. XIII. FEBRUARY, 1907.
JOURNAL
' • OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
New Members and Associates,
CONTENTS.
PAGE
• 17
Annual General Meeting of Members, - 18
Meeting of the Council, - - - -
General Meeting, ....
Report of the Council for the year
1906, .......
Account of Receipts and Expenditure
18
20
23
for 1906,
Endowment Fund for Psychical Re
search, Account for 1906, -
Edmund Gurney Library Fund, Accoun
for 1906,
Case,
The Arensburg Poltergeist, -
Abridged Edition of "Human Person
ality,"
26
36
27
30
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ADDERLEY, THE HON. AND REV. JAMES, Saltley, Birmingham.
BENJAMIN, MRS. ALFRED, 46 Dover Street, London, W.
CANZIANI, MADAME, 3 Palace Green, Kensington Palace Gardens,
London, W.
GOLDSTEIN, DR. PHIL. JULIUS, Victoriastr. 28, Darmstadt, Germany.
HERRICK, REV. T. SHIRLEY, Parkwood, Woodcote Road, Wallington,
Surrey.
Hough, Joseph Fairhurst, Lowoqd Cottage, Moor Park, Great
Crosby, Liverpool.
HudlestOD, R. W., 68 Parliament Hill, Hampstead, London, N.W.
LEAF, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
LIBRARIAN, Public Library, Church St., Brighton.
LYALL, SIR CHARLES JAMES, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
MEGSON, ALBERT, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett.
MYERS, PROFESSOR CHARLKS S., M.A., M.D., Melrose, Grange
Road, Cambridge.
Myers, L. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
RIVIERE, MRS., 16 York Place, London, W.
ROOTS, THE RIGHT REV. L. H., Bishop of Hankow, China.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
SMITH, H. G., LL.D., 38 Eathdown Ed., N.G.E., Dublin.
TEUELL, E. H. S., Clonmannon, Eathnew, Co. Wicklow.
WEAVER, Miss F. J., Homeleigh, Burnham, Somerset.
WILKINS, C. F., c/o. Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING- OF MEMBEES.
THE Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society
was held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Wednesday,
January 30th, 1907, at 4.15 p.m.; the President, the Eight
Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. B. Florence, the Hon.
J. Harris, Dr. H. D. E. Kingston, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. A. F. Shand, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr.
H. Arthur Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Dr. A. Wallace, Mr.
V. J. Woolley, and Miss Alice Johnson, Secretary.
The Eeport of the Council for the year 1906 was read, and
is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1906 was presented and taken as
read, and is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of Council : Mr. St. George Lane
Fox Pitt, Lord Eayleigh, F.E.S., Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs.
H. Sidgwick, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, and Dr.
C. Lloyd Tuckey.
There was a discussion, initiated by Mr. E. B. Florence,
on the use of the term " hallucination " x in the Journal and
Proceedings.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 82nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, W. , on Wednesday, January 30th, 1907, at 3.45 p.m. ;
the President, the Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, in the
1 A Note on this will appear in the next number of the Journal.
FEB., 1907. Meeting of the Council. 19
chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mr. A. F. Shand, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Mr. V. J. Woolley, and Miss Alice
Johnson, Secretary.
After considering their Eeport for the year 1906, the Council
adjourned for the Annual General Meeting of Members of the
Society, and re-assembled at the conclusion of that meeting.
The minutes of the last meeting of the Council were then
read and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were
reported .
On the proposal of Mr. J. G. Piddington, seconded by
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, the Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour
was re-elected President of the Society for the year 1907.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected as Hon. Treasurer.
Mr. Piddington having resigned the Hon. Secretaryship, Mrs.
H. Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding were elected
as joint Hon. Secretaries, and Mr. Arthur Miall was re-elected
as Auditor for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1907 : Messrs. W. W. Baggally and G. Lowes
Dickinson, the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence Jones, Messrs.
W. M'Dougall, F. C. S. Schiller, A. F. Shand, Gilbert
Murray, Sydney Olivier, and V. J. Woolley.
Committees were elected as follows, with power in each case
to add to their number :
Committee of Reference: Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir
William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore,
Lord Eayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and
Miss Jane Barlow.
Library Committee: The Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J.
G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney
C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel Le M.
Taylor.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were
20 Journal of. Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
elected for the year 1907, the: Eev. M. A. Bayfield being added
to the list of Honorary Associates. .
, Three new Members and sixteen new Associates were
elected. The names and addresses are given above.
The monthly account for December was presented and taken
as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 129th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Wednesday,
January 30th, 1907, at 8.30 p.m. ; the President, the Eight
Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, in the chair.
MB. W. M'DouGALL read a paper on " The Case of Sally
Beauchamp," which is published in Part LII. of the
Proceedings.
The principal conclusions arrived at by the author of the
paper were that the two personalities known as B i. and B iv.
might fairly be regarded as the products of a division of the
original normal personality, but that the personality known
as " Sally " could not be so regarded. He maintained that we
had not yet achieved a conception of human personality which
would enable us to account satisfactorily for the principal
features of this remarkable case. He did not think that
Mr. Myers's " subliminal self " was such a conception.
MB. F. PODMOEE said it appeared to him that the case could
be explained on the same psycho-physical principles as the
more common types of multiple personality, and that there
was no ground for regarding " Sally " as a separate soul. No
doubt, as Mr. M'Dougall had said, the personalities Bi. and
B iv. were co-ordinate, while "Sally" was somewhat different
from them ; but he thought that two characteristics gave a
possible clue to her nature : (1) Her memory was far more
extensive than that of B i. and Biv., in which respect it
resembled hypnotic memory; (2) her character, behaviour,
and acquirements were like those of a child of about 14 ;
she had not the mental qualities or knowledge of B I. and B iv.
It might be supposed that, while the consciousnesses of B I and
B iv. were represented on the physical side by a functional
discontinuity in the elements of the adult brain , " Sally " was
FEB., 1907. . . General Meeting.
conditioned by a discontinuity between the less mature and
the adult elements, and represented the temporary predomin
ance of the immature elements. If so, she would be, like
the other personalities, merely a dissociated part of the
complete normal personality.
DR. M'CLUEE observed that the function of the brain was
to think, and in the living organism the brain was necessary
for this purpose. But it was uncertain whether structure
preceded function or the reverse. It was possible that thought
might strike out paths in the brain and use it as an instrument
to play on ; and he believed the notion that thought was a
mere emanation from the brain was now discarded.
MR. F. C. CONSTABLE said he thought the word " subliminal "
was used by Mr. Myers in two different senses, viz. : (1) in
the sense of a store of submerged memories and experiences,
(2) in the sense of the real essential personality or soul which
survives death. But was the personality the same throughout
life? The child of 2 was not the same as the adult man, who,
again, was not the same as the old man. The personality
at any period seems to be nothing more than a synthesis of
all the mental states and feelings of that period, which are
constantly changing into other mental states. The different
personalities of Miss B. should perhaps be regarded as nothing
more than a series of shifting syntheses.
MR. C. D. BADLAND asked whether it was not possible that
" Sally " could be explained as a delusion on the part of Miss B.
It was not uncommon for persons in abnormal mental con
ditions to fancy themselves to be somebody else.
MR. G-. CALDERON supported the same theory. He main
tained that " Sally " did not seem like a real entity, as she
had not always the same character. Most people had
occasional impulses to behave in a way just opposite to their
ordinary normal behaviour, and this seemed an exaggerated
case of the kind. " Sally " was very similar to the fictitious
personalities that often appear in trance conditions and are
obviously dramatisations.
THE PRESIDENT, in answer to the last two speakers, said
he thought that no one who had read Dr. Morton Prince's
full account of the case could doubt that " Sally " was at least
as real a personality as any of the others, since she had a
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
continuous existence, concomitant with the other personalities
and not merely alternating with them. Nor did he think
Mr. Podmore's explanation compatible with the facts of
the case. Mr. M'Dougall had discussed the applicability
of the monistic and two different varieties of the dualistic
doctrine from a psychological point of view ; he thought
the ultimate court of appeal must after all be the meta
physical court. Mr. M'Dougall's conclusions, as he himself
pointed out, could not be considered altogether satisfactory,
since the theory on which he explained " Sally " was incom
patible with the theory on which he explained the other
personalities ; but he had perhaps increased his own difficulties
by taking the most extreme forms of the two varieties of
the dualistic hypothesis. Some via media might possibly be
found. The speaker agreed with Mr. M'Dougall in thinking
that Myers's theory of the subliminal self did not help to
explain the case, this being the doctrine of the soul in its
most extreme form, regarding it as completely independent of
the body, which only hampers its proper activity. For his
own part, he thought the soul was neither entirely dependent
on the nervous system, nor entirely independent of it and
self-sufficing. The mental content was doubtless the expres
sion of the soul's interaction with its environment ; but it
could not be without environment, whether in or out of the
body, and therefore could not be without content. He had
already ventured to express the opinion that the evidence
pointed to a psychical as well as a physical environment even
within the bodily organism itself ; and the case of " Sally "
seemed to support this view.
ME. M'DOUGALL, in replying to the comments that had
been made, said that since Dr. M'Clure assumed the theory
the validity of which he had been discussing, he had nothing
to say in reply. He thought that Mr. Podmore in his explana
tion of the case had ignored one fundamental factor of it,
namely, that " Sally," unlike the other personalities, had a
continuous existence from the early infancy of Miss B. up to
the present day; she did not alternate with B i. and Biv.,
but co-existed with them. Nor did it appear to him that she
was like a hypnotic personality, since it was by no means
always the case that the hypnotic memory was more extensive
FEB., 1907. General Meeting. 23
than the normal one. He did not agree with Mr. Constable
in regarding a personality as a mere succession of syntheses ;
he thought the formation of a normal personality was a
process of continued growth and change rather than a
succession of different personalities ; the mind of an adult
was not identical with the mind of a child, but had grown
out of it as the body grows. He thought the suggestion of
the next two speakers, that " Sally " was a dramatisation or
fictitious personality, had been sufficiently dealt with by the
President, and could not be seriously maintained in face of
the facts. With regard to the President's own remarks he
could not agree that we must appeal in the last resort to
metaphysics ; he thought such appeals had in the past been
futile, and were likely to be always so. To his mind the great
interest and value of the present case lay in its affording
empirical data which might possibly throw light on the nature
of personality and the relation between mind and matter.
EEPOET OF THE COUNCIL FOE THE YEAE 1906.
THE membership of the Society has increased considerably
during this year. 27 new Members (including one Honorary
Member) were elected and one Associate became a Member ;
100 new Associates were elected and two Members became
Associates. On the other hand, the total loss in numbers
from various causes was 19 Members and 74 Associates,
leaving a net increase of 37. The total membership has
now reached 939, the numbers being distributed as follows :
Members 258 (including 30 Honorary and Corresponding
Members) ; Associates 681 (including 13 Honorary Associates) .
The death of Dr. Eichard Hodgson at the end of 1905
and the difficulty of finding a suitable successor to him as
Secretary to the American Branch made it necessary for the
Council to reconsider the position of the Branch in relation
to the Parent Society. They therefore asked Mr. Piddington
to go to America in order to confer on the spot with the
American Vice-Presidents of the Society and officials of the
Branch as to the desirability of its being continued, giving
him full powers to act on their behalf in all matters relating
to it. Mr. Piddington accordingly went to Boston in May,
co •o
en
rH
CO
01
CCO
OM 3,,
soo
r* <
X
r
I
««»« «
coiAcom o
rH r-1 rH
-
iii
*>£ | S: ja "
jiia i
PH 3
«rH <
3 Isss
« ' OOO
h rH
O OOlO
rH i—1
«
1-1 . QOCO
ffi , 1C
1 " '
J
, a" , , ,
o '
1
.2 tT
sf
t •
"•iif 0
Binding,
and
Despatch
o: ;
Secretary
and Assistant
Seer Junior
Assista
H .
iS-:
o *-
aj
"** rf
1.
||
0*02
c fi r
o
o ss
coo
.
fiiJ-if-r
. .u o.2^ iT)o.-"— c fe S
iliililiiililill
pHtftaHHMfePH02E-tH<jM3£OQ
H
^ O C1OOO CO-*rHOSOCOO , »
I
CO ^ (NOOCO rHCO'-iCCb-OOt>. OS
1-1 rH rH rH rH r- | rH
S S MMrHM S ^^ ^"^ 1 ^
, IH
^
=_
,^
a*|s cooooo o o • • • eo >n o P
1 ^ IHCO
1" oooo
, 00
ss eo^ioej rH««OrHOO
rH rH rH
' ' ' W *"* **
1N io -^
8S^8|S-
-
- :
• S •
"f
- 9
9 JS
•^ C
I "
' S ' ^ '
3 °
• Is? ,
i'^Lr
§3 o 5 ja
£
IpiJSja
a g »(!,<) CO
•••o »"
,3 a 5
o
' _, a;
- s
jfg §J
«wBv-
<Ujlii
9* C a
m
fa
g
O
I
oJwOtSo |
oooo-<o "
r-1 F^
oooooo S
•
OO^:-^OtO jHaj
^J"Crt ,_^C4) Ztt Cri s f>
o£"z
•3 sO
'"a"
• %3%
G S^ g
K.S.S
I""
ooo
ooo
g»S
zj.S«
5*fr
5=o«
-
|sg
s «
I
I
s
2
I
g
2
a
•a
e
2
•
o-*
MO
ss
S
S Kf
a o
IS
i I
t
•
1 •
§ J
5n tH
S £
1
O
I
^ is
cf
•*
fe i
^
e
a
M
OH CO ^ O O
_j
^S CO 30 N •*
QC) 53 c
^*H l
Qw
[V.
g
' ' 1
a ' M '
RECEIVED.
r
3.'
1,'
jrnment
3J%
Stoc
EDMUND
-SS ,
!«
§.s
QS'S
I** §
«^§
o) d •**
BE
MQ5
* -
& a'
OB
8
0
S
SK
i
3
S
•B
s
1
1
f
' 8
H "O
a
3
H 0
1 «
* c
<B
•a
|
•3
a
j^
§
i
1
1
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
and in conjunction with Professor James, Professor Hyslop
and Mr. G. B. Dorr decided, as announced in the Journal
for June, that the American Branch should be dissolved at
the end of 1906. The records accumulated at the offices of
the Branch have been sent to London and selections from
them will in course of time be published. Opportunity has
been given to members of the Branch to transfer their
membership to the Parent Society on certain conditions,
without the usual formalities, and nearly 200 members have
so far availed themselves of this opportunity, so that this
number will shortly be added to the figures of membership
given above.
As stated by Mr. Piddington in the Journal for July, the
dissolution of the Branch was decided on for the two following
reasons : (1) because no suitable successor to Dr. Hodgson
was in sight ; (2) because it is desirable to lighten as far
as possible the routine work in England. Professor Hyslop's
scheme for an American Institute for Scientific Eesearch,
of which one main department should be for psychical
research, removed the one great objection to the policy of
dissolution by making it clear that this would not involve the
abandonment of organised psychical research in America.
This Institute has now been founded, and the first number
of its Journal has already been issued. It is hoped that
valuable work will be done in America through its means.
One important event of the year in England has been the
publication of Mrs. Verrall's report on the experiments in
automatic writing which she has been carrying on for some
time and is still continuing.
It will be remembered that about three years ago a valuable
collection of automatic drawings by Mrs. Alaric Watts was
presented to the Society through the instrumentality of Mr.
Douglas Murray and Sir William Crookes. This year a large
number of other drawings and paintings produced by Mrs.
Watts in the same way have been added to the gift, and
the whole forms a very complete series, which illustrates in
an interesting manner the gradual development from rough
and rudimentary figures and sketches to very elaborate and
beautiful designs and drawings, generally of a highly decorative
kind.
FEB., 1907. Report of the Council for the Year 1906. 27
In August Miss Johnson went to America in order to
attend some sittings for physical phenomena with private
persons—no professional medium being present—to which she
had been invited by Dr. J. H. Gower. The expenses of the
journey were defrayed by the generosity of a member of
the Society, who made an anonymous gift to its funds for
the purposes of this and another investigation. Eighteen
sittings were held, some of which were practically blank,
while at others phenomena occurred apparently of the same
kinds as those reported in the earlier sittings of the circle,
but less marked in degree. Miss Johnson's report on these
sittings was read at the meeting of the Society held in
December.
Two General Meetings and four Private Meetings of the
Society (for Members and Associates only) were held during
the year. The dates and papers read were as follows.
* January 26th. "Some Objects and Methods of Work in
Psychical Research," by Professor W. F. Barrett.
March 30th. " Some Observations and Experiences reported
by Mr. W. G. Grottendieck," by the Hon. Everard
Feilding.
May 21st. "A Discussion of Mme. X.'s Greek Script," by
the Eev. M. A. Bayfield.
July 4th. " A Case illustrating some Phases of Hypnotic
Personality," by Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson.
* November 12th. " Presidential Address," by the Eight
Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
December 14th. " Some Eecent Sittings for Physical
Phenomena in America," by Miss Alice Johnson.
CASE.
L. 1156. Collective (?) Apparition.
THE following case was received through Mr. Andrew Lang ;
some other experiences of Miss Grieve, the lady who con
tributes it, have already appeared in the Journal (see Vol. X.,
p. 134 and p. 260). These were: some cases of crystal
visions, one of which—viz., some pyramids with a train of
loaded camels passing in front of them—was seen collectively
* Those marked with an asterisk were General Meetings.
28 Journal of Socitty for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
by Miss Grieve and a friend of her looking in the same
crystal ; and some experiments in thought-transference tried
with this and another friend.
In the case now given, it seemed as if Miss Grieve's
hallucination was shared by her dog. Some other instances
of the apparent sharing of hallucinations by animal and human
percipients were given in the " Report on the Census of
Hallucinations" (see Proceedings S.P.E., Vol. X., pp. 326-330),
where it is pointed out that it is necessarily very difficult to
prove the participation of the animal in the hallucination,
because, as animals cannot describe what they see and hear, we
can only infer it from their behaviour, for which there may be
other causes besides the apparition. Sometimes it is at least as
plausible to suppose that the emotion displayed by the animal
is caused by the behaviour or appearance of his human com
panion when seeing the apparition as to suppose it caused
by any sharing of the vision. When the action of the animal
which leads to the inference that he is a co-percipient precedes
the seeing of the apparition by the human percipient, suggestion
may no doubt be exercised by the animal on his companion,
but that may be the whole of his share in the phenomenon.
The account is contained in a letter from Miss Grieve to
Mr. Lang as follows :
SKELFHILL, HAWICK, N.B., August 8th, 1906.
... I have been staying here since August 4th. On Monday,
6th, I went up the Pen and for the first time in my life saw a
' ghost ! ' Turk, the old Dandie Diomont, was with me ; and Mrs.
E., a Swiss lady also staying here, had said she would go too, but
it was hot, and in the end she stayed at home. Turk and I went
very slowly, taking many rests on account of his short legs and
shorter breath, and the grass and brackens were long and strong.
Our last stop was where the Pen suddenly takes up for its rocky
top very steeply. I sat with my back against the dyke facing
the steep part, and Turk lay panting beside me. I was thinking
of a beautiful decking of grouse we had just disturbed—the two
parent birds and five young ones clapped about four yards from
us. Turk did not see them at first and I stood perfectly still
watching, they were so pretty. Then Turk winded them and threw
up his head, and of course with the movement the birds were off
FEB., 1907. Case. 29
like a whirlwind. This just to show you my train of thought.
Quite suddenly I saw coming along at right angles to me, a friend,
Dr. H., who crossed with me May, 1905, from America. She was
in a rather short dark blue skirt, white cotton blouse, no hat, and
a stick in her hand—and later, I noticed a tail of hair beginning
to ' come down.' I had heard about fortnight ago that she had
landed in England from America and was to sail back Sept. 12,
and that she was going to her home in Cornwall for part of the
time— but when I did not know. I was so surprised I did not
say anything for a second or two till Turk began to growl. Then
I jumped up exclaiming ' Dr. H. ! ' She looked straight at me,
but when I spoke, turned and went on down the hill—following
her own direction and the one from which I had come. I followed
quickly to catch her up, feeling rather queer because she did not
speak, and 1 Jfnew she had seen me ! Turk barked and growled the
whole time, but kept close in to my heels and would not run out
as he usually does at strange people or strange dogs. His hair
was all on end and his tail hooked over his back, as stiff as a
poker. I almost caught up Dr. H., and was just going to put out
my hand to touch her shoulder, when a big bumble bee whirled
between us and flew right through Dr. H. and she disappeared.
I certainly did feel queer after that—I was so very sure it
was she and it was such a shock to find there was nothing. Had
it not been for Turk I should have doubted my senses; but he
•was so unmistakably disturbed and angry. I swear I am well—
never was better, and have had nothing stronger to drink than
water for over a year. The exact moment of the apparition I
cannot quite give you, but it was 6.5 p.m. when I sat down, and
6.15 perhaps a minute or even two minutes after it had disappeared.
I had a pencil and envelope in my pocket and made a rough
note of it there on the top of the Pen, and wrote it out in
detail when I got down here to the house. Of course I have
written (yesterday) to Dr. H. to know whatever she was doing
at that date and hour, and will let you know her reply—probably
bathing at Tintagel ! Yesterday just after I had written to her
came a p.c. from her twice forwarded and dated Tintagel, Aug. 1st,
to say she was having a glorious' holiday there ; but of course that
was six days before I saw her. It is interesting, and I sincerely
hope nothing has happened to her. ...
Miss Grieve wrote later to Mr. Lang in answer to some
questions of his about the incident, and enclosed a rough
sketch (not reproduced here) to show the positions of herself
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
and the dog at the time, the apparition coming round from
behind and passing in front of them :
September 23rd, 1906.
I wonder if the enclosed sketch will clear up those points for
you. She came along by the top dyke, you see. Turk and I were,
in reality, round the corner with our backs against the dyke (at
least, mine was), only I cannot show that in the diagram. I was
sitting when I first saw the figure, so also was Turk, though he
collected his wits quicker than I, for he barked before I spoke.
Truly I am certain I was not asleep, though one cannot deny the
possibility. Dr. H. has since stayed with me here, and should by
now have landed in America. She said on that day and hour she
was coming down their hill at Tintagel in the clothes I described,
but with a wet bathing gown on her arm, which I did not see.
Unfortunately the letter which Miss Grieve wrote to Dr.
H. at the time and the latter's reply were not preserved, but
Miss Grieve afterwards obtained the testimony of Dr. H.'s
sister about it, as explained in the following letter to Mr.
Lang:
October 28th, 1906.
I destroyed the letter long ago—it was so long and bulky to
keep, but I copied out the simple statement from it (at the time)
that Dr. H. on that evening was walking down the hill after
bathing, dressed in blue skirt, etc. Dr. H. herself never wrote of
it, but her sister, who was with her at the time, did—M. H., and
I have sent that copy on for M. H. to sign. She is ill and
in hospital, but I think she will be well enough to sign, though
probably not to write a letter.
The following is the corroboration given by Miss M. H. :
About 6 p.m. on Aug. 6th, 1906, Dr. H. was walking down a
hill near Tintagel after bathing. She wore a dark blue skirt, 110
hat, and over her arm a wet bathing dress.
Quite correct.
(Signed in full) M. H.
THE AEENSBUEG POLTEEGEIST.
A FEW years ago, in the course of a correspondence in the
Journal between Dr. A. E. Wallace and Mr. F. Podmore on
Clairvoyance and Poltergeists, Dr. Wallace referred (in the
Journal for February, 1899, Vol. IX., p. 28) to the disturb
FEB., 1907. The Arensburg Poltergeist. 31
ances in the cemetery at Arensburg as a specially noteworthy
case. These were described by E. Dale Owen in his Footfalls
on the Boundary of Another World, pp. 186-193. Arensburg
is a town in the island of Oesel, which is situated in the
Baltic Sea, and forms part of the province of Livonia. In
the public cemetery of Arensburg in 1844, coffins were said to
have been found disarranged in the vault under the private
chapel belonging to the family of Buxhoewden. An official
enquiry was made by the Baron de Guldenstubbe , President of
the Consistory, the Bishop of the province, and other members
of the Consistory, a physician of repute, and representatives
of the municipal authorities.
It is stated that after the most careful precautions had been
taken to exclude ordinary human agency (as detailed in
Owen's account and summarised by Dr. Wallace), the coffins
were found to have been disturbed again. An official report
of all the occurrences was drawn up, signed by all the members
of the commission of enquiry, and placed on record with the
other proceedings of the Consistory, where it " is to be found
among its archives and may be examined by any travellers,
respectably recommended, on application to its secretary"
(Owen, Footfalls, p. 192). Owen states that he had not him
self seen this document, but was informed of all the facts
in 1859 by the daughter and son of the Baron de Guldenstubbe.
Owen's own account, therefore, as Mr. Podmore pointed out
(Journal for June, 1899, Vol. IX., p. 93), is at third-hand,
and neither he nor his informants professed to have seen the
official documents on which the evidence for the case rests.
On the subject of these documents Mr. Solovovo writes to
Mr. Podmore on Oct. 21 (Nov. 4), 1906 :
20 SERGIEESKAIA, ST. PETERSBURG.
With reference to the conversation I had with you in Mr. Leafs
house about a fortnight or three weeks ago on the "Arensburg
disturbances" of 1844, described by R. Dale Owen in Footfalls on the
Boundary of Another World, p. 186, and referred to by Dr. A. R. Wallace
in the S.P.R. Journal, February 1899, p. 28, I now send you
the following statement : That, my attention having been called to
this incident, I applied at the time (on Feb. 4/16, 1899) to the
" Livlandisches Evangelisches-Lutherisches Consistorium " at Riga,
and received on Feb. 19 (March 4) an official answer to the effect
that they had in their archives (or, to be quite accurate, in the archives
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1907.
"des ehemaligen Oeselschen E.-L. Consistoriums ") no documents
bearing on the subject : also referring me to the archives of St.
Laurentius's Church at Arensburg. I therefore wrote to Arensburg
and received a letter from the Rev. Lemm, " Ober-pastor " of the
church in question, which was wholly negative. Mr. Lemm also
mentioned that some years before the present Baron Buxhoewden,
to whose family the burial vault in question belongs, had communicated
with him on the subject, having read about the "disturbances" in
some Warsaw newspaper; but had in spite of his enquiries failed
to find anything either at Arensburg, or at Riga. . . .
MICHAEL PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
P.S.—I have the two above-mentioned letters before me as I
write.
ABEIDGED EDITION OF "HUMAN PEESONALITY."
AN abridgment of Mr. Myers's Human Personality, edited by
his son, Mr. L. H. Myers, has just been published by Messrs.
Longmans, Green, & Co. in a single 8vo. volume of 470 pages,
price 10s. 6d. net. As explained in a prefatory note by the
editor, Mr. Myers himself had indicated briefly the lines on
which an abridgment could best be made, and the work has
been carried out in as close accordance as possible with those
indications.
About half of each volume in the original edition consisted
of Appendices containing examples of the various kinds of
phenomena discussed and analysed in the text. These have
been considerably reduced in number without, probably,
detracting much from the value of the work for the ordinary
reader ; but all the cases retained in the new edition are
quoted in full, since an abridged version has very little value.
The editor observes that the statement made by Mr. Myers
in his preface, that " the book is an exposition rather than
a proof," naturally applies with even greater force to the
abridgment. The cases given in it are to be regarded simply
as illustrative of the main types of evidence on which the
argument rests. But for the most important parts of the
evidence itself the serious reader will be able to consult the
original authorities by the help of the very complete references
which are given throughout and which form a valuable feature
of the work.
No. CCXXXVII.—VOL. XIII. MARCH, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
On the Use of the Terra "Hallucina
tion," 34
Case, 35
Luminous Appearances in connection
with the Welsh Revival, - 40
PAGE
Correspondence :
I. On Miss Johnson's Recent Sittings
for Physical Phenomena in America, 42
II. On Experiments with the Stheno-
meter, 44
Dr. Tuckey's " Hypnotism," 46
International Congress of Psychiatry, - 48
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, MARCH 35fh, 1907, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER WILL BE READ ON
" Experiments in Thought-Transference, by
Miss C. Miles and Miss Ramsden."
N.B. —No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, MAR., 1907.
ON THE USE OF THE TEEM "HALLUCINATION."
THE question of the proper use of the word " hallucination "
raised by Mr. E. B. Florence at the Annual Meeting of
Members of the Society on January 30th suggests that, in
spite of the very complete discussion and expositions of the
subject in the early volumes of the Proceedings and Journal,
a certain amount of misapprehension still exists in the minds
of some members of the Society as to the meaning to be
attached to the word. It may therefore be worth while to
refer again to Mr. Gurney's article on the subject in Proceed
ings, Vol. III., pp. 151-189 (reprinted in Chapter X. of
Vol. I. of Phantasms of the Living). He there remarks (op.
cit., p. 152) : " Is it possible to treat hallucinations as a single
class of phenomena, marked out by definite characteristics?
The popular answer would no doubt be : Yes, that the
distinguishing characteristic is some sort of false belief. But
this is an error : in many of the best known cases of
hallucination—that of Nicolai, for instance—the percipient
has held with respect to the figures that he saw or the voices
that he heard, not a false but a true belief, to wit, that they
did not correspond to any external reality. The only sort of
hallucination which is necessarily characterised by false belief
is the purely non-sensory sort—as where a person has a fixed
idea that every one is plotting against him, or that he is
being secretly mesmerised from a distance. Of hallucinations
of the senses, belief in their reality, though a frequent, is by
no means an essential feature ; a tendency to deceive is all
that we can safely predicate of them." " I should consider
[the] distinctive characteristic [of phantoms] to be some
thing quite apart from the question whether or not they
were actually mistaken for real figures,—namely, their marked
resemblance to real figures and the consequent necessity for
the exercise of memory and reflection to prevent so mistaking
them. The definition of a sensory hallucination would thus
be a percept which lacks, but which can only by distinct
reflection be recognised as lacking, the objective basis which
it suggests,—where objective basis is to be taken as a short
MAR., 1907. On the Use of the Term " Hallucination." 35
way of naming the possibility of being shared by all persons
with normal senses " (op. cit., p. 154).
It is to be observed that this definition includes " veridical "
hallucinations as well as those which there is no reason to
regard as anything but purely subjective. Veridical hallucina
tions, e.g., of human figures, may be due to a telepathic
impulse, or to some other unknown influence, but the
particular objective basis which they suggest,—namely, that
of a material figure within the field of vision of the percipient,
—is lacking ; they are therefore hallucinatory. The term
used to express them is merely descriptive of their psycho
logical nature ; it does not either assert or deny that they may
or do originate in some agency external to the mind of the
percipient.
Apart from this, it is important to note that the word
" hallucination," both in medicine l and in psychology, is now
restricted to hallucinations of a sensory kind, whereas in
ordinary usage it sometimes includes as well those non-sensory
hallucinations or delusions which, as Gurney says, are always
" characterised by false belief," and which give the word its
objectionable connotation. Thus, in the discussion in his
Principles of Psychology, Vol. II., pp. 114 et seq., Professor
James says : " Illusions and hallucinations must both be
distinguished from delusions. A delusion is a false opinion
about a matter of fact, which need not necessarily involve,
though it often does involve, false perceptions of sensible
things" (op. cit., p. 114 foot-note). "Where a hallucination
is complete, it is much more than a mental image. A
hallucination is a strictly sensational form of consciousness,
as good and true a sensation as if there were a real object
there. The object happens not to be there, that is all"
(p. 115).
CASE.
M. Aut. 104.
THE following case, in which information of a death that had
occurred about 17 or 18 hours previously was given by means
1 See, e.g., Hack Tuke's Dictionary of Psychological Medicine.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
of table-tilting, is contributed by Miss Helen Verrall, who
writes :—
5 SELWYN GARDENS, CAMBRIDGE,
February 5th, 1907.
On Tuesday, January 29th, 1907, at 6 p.m., Mr. Bayfield and I
endeavoured to obtain automatic " messages " by means of table-
tilting, as we have done on several previous occasions. Since there
was no other person in the room, we were compelled to record the
messages ourselves, and consequently to follow them word by word ;
we were not, however, able for the most part to form any expectation
of what the next word was likely to be, and our expectations, when
we did form any, proved as often as not incorrect. It is evident,
therefore, that the general tenour of the messages can have been
little affected by our conscious thoughts. The following statement
was obtained ; the questions asked by us are in brackets.
Fellow of Royal Society. (What was his name1!) Potter. (What
about him?) Died this afternoon. (What time?) ^.SO. (Can you
tell us more about him?) Edditor (sic) of Physiological Review.
(Where did he live?) London. (What address?) 43 Belsize
Gardens, Kensington. (Was he married ? ) Yes. (Had he any
children ? ) Yes, five.
At the time this message conveyed nothing either to Mr. Bayfield
and me or to my father, Dr. Verrall, to whom it was shown on
Tuesday evening; we considered it indeed of so little value that
we discouraged any further communications on the subject, and
tried to direct the phenomena into what we considered more
" evidential " channels.
We thought no more of the matter until we heard on Wednesday
afternoon of the death of Sir Michael Foster, which took place, as
we learnt by subsequent enquiry, early in the morning of Tuesday,
January 29th. It was not, however, publicly announced until
Wednesday, and on Tuesday was known in Cambridge only to a
very small number of people, apparently four. That the news did
not spread is clearly shown by the fact that it did not appear in
any paper until Wednesday afternoon. The names of those who
are known to have received the news on Tuesday have been told to
us, and it appears certain that neither Mr. Bayfield nor I can have
come into any sort of contact with them in the course of that day.
If that be so, the " message " obtained by us, unless it is to be
regarded as a mere coincidence, must have been obtained by some
other than the normally recognised means of communication.
MAB., 1907. Case. 37
With regard to the question of coincidence, it may be noted that
—setting aside for the moment details given in reply to leading
questions, which will be considered later—our message can be stated
thus : A Fellow of the Royal Society (a), by name Potter (b) , and
Editor of the Physiological Review (c), has died this afternoon (d).
Of these statements, as applied to Sir Michael Foster, (a) is correct ;
(c) is also correct, except for the discrepancy between Review and
Journal. " Sir M. Foster founded and edited the Journal of Physiology."
(See obituary notice in the Times of Jan. 31.) (b) is not correct,
but there is a close resemblance between the two names, four out
of the whole six letters being right and in the right place. The
description (c) is distinctive ; there are only two people to whom
it could up to the present ever have been applied, Sir M. Foster
and the present editor, Professor J. N. Langley, whose name, it
will be seen, does not bear the least resemblance to "Potter."
(a), (5), and (c) combined would appear therefore to point to one
man only, Sir M. Foster, who is stated to have died on Tuesday
afternoon (d), and died as a fact on Tuesday morning.
The further details given, such as the hour and place of death,
are almost all incorrect, but it should be noticed that they were
given in reply to leading questions, and it is my impression, based
on previous experience, that in the case of automatic messages
statements so obtained are seldom trustworthy. For instance, 43
Belsize Road, Hampstead, is, as I afterwards remembered, an address
with which I was once familiar ; the address given in the message
of January 29th is evidently a variation on this. On the other
hand, the three statements numbered above (a), (c), (d), were given
either spontaneously or in answer to questions so vague as to
afford practically no guidance or restriction to the answers, (b)—a
partially correct answer—was, I think, given in reply to a definite
question ; but on this point Mr. Bayfield's recollections differ from
mine; he thinks that the first question asked was "What about
him 1 "
Mr. Bayfield and I have sat for automatic phenomena of this
kind on 17 occasions. This is the only time that we have produced
a statement that some one had recently died.
HELEN DK G. VERRALL.
Miss Verrall and Mr. Bayfield give the following statements
as to what they were doing during the earlier part of the
day when the message was received, showing that they had
had no opportunity of hearing the news by normal means.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
February 2nd, 1907.
On January 29th I did not leave the house, except for a short
time in the afternoon, when I bicycled to a shop to pay a bill. I
met no one that I knew and spoke to no one but the shopwoman.
On my way home I went to see Miss Hudson at Newnham College.
The news of Sir M. Foster's death was not known in Newnham at
that time. I spoke to no one but Miss Hudson.
H. DE G. VERRALL.
THE RECTORY, HERTINGFORDBURY,
HERTFORD, February ith, 1907.
On Monday, January 28th of this year, I arrived at Dr. Verrall's
house, 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge. On the next day—the day
on which Miss Verrall and I received the " message " through the
table—I did not leave the house except for a short bicycle ride
with Dr. Verrall from about noon to 1.15. During the ride I spoke
to no one but Dr. Verrall and his man-servant who draws his trailer.
If any strangers came to the house on that day I did not see
them, and spoke to no one but members of Dr. Verrall's family and
the man-servant mentioned above.
During my visit no mention was made of Sir Michael Foster
until the middle of Wednesday afternoon, the 30th, when Dr.
Verrall received a letter announcing Sir Michael's death.
M. A. BAYFIELD.
The note made at the time, the original of which is in
our possession, reads thus :—
" 6 p.m. Jan. 29, '07.
" Fellow of Boyal Society Potter died this afternoon 4.30
—Edditor of Physiological Review—London—43 Belsize Gar
dens, Kensington. Wife—5 children.
" Quotation from Latin : Ut hortum Quinti Flavi postulavit
imperator ad usum suum respondit ille tuurn linquis sed in
magnis vocis silentium quid refert imperator silentium poscis
habebis et in carcere includit. Ret author (repeated this)
initials Eufus Enobarbus Transpadanus. (Tell us the truth.)
Always do.
" HELEN DE G. VERRALL.
" M. A. BAYFIELD.
* The above was seen by me at 7 p.m. on Jan. 29, '07.
"A. W. VERRALL."
MAH., 1907. Case. 39
In answer to questions, Miss Verrall gives a translation
of the Latin and some further information as follows :—
(1) Translation of Latin.
When the emperor (or general) demanded the garden of Quintus
Flavins for his own use, the latter replied, " You are leaving your
own (garden ?), but in great affairs (or possibly people) what matters
silence of the voice t " The emperor [replied], " You ask for silence.
You shall have it," and he shut him up in prison.
(2) The paper of original notes gives everything that was tilted
by the table ; our own questions were written out next day from
memory. The recollections of Mr. Bayfield and myself did not differ
except on the one point I mentioned in my account. The words
in brackets were not tilted by the table, but said by us.
(3) Time of death.
The Times obituary notice, January 31st, says : " The death of
Sir Michael Foster . . . occurred suddenly on Tuesday night in
London."
The Times, February 1st, death column, gives : " On the morning of
January 29th in London suddenly, Sir Michael Foster. . . ."
The University Reporter says that Sir Michael Foster died on Mon
day night (January 28th).
There is no doubt that Sir Michael Foster died during the
night of Monday, January 28th ; whether before or after
midnight has not been clearly ascertained. He was taken ill
very suddenly, having attended and spoken (as stated in the
Times of January 29th) at the annual meeting of the British
Science Guild which was held at the Mansion House on
Monday afternoon, and nothing was heard of his illness in
Cambridge until after his death. In the course of Tuesday
the fact of his death was communicated to a very small
number of persons at Cambridge, apparently four, none of
whom came into contact on that day with either Miss Verrall
or Mr. Bayfield. The first public announcement in Cambridge
seems to have been a telegram to the Union on Wednesday
morning, and the London evening papers of Wednesday were
the first to contain the news.
There are various points of interest in this case. It is to
be noted that the " message " is received by persons who
have no special personal interest in it, beyond that of any
one connected with the University in which Sir Michael
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
Foster had for some 35 years played so prominent a part.
The slight inaccuracies of the statements made of course detract
somewhat from their evidential value ; yet the identification of
the person referred to is unmistakable. As Miss Verrall points
out, the most inaccurate statements are those given in answer
to questions. This we believe to be frequently the case ; it
seems to be rarely, if ever, that information directly asked for
is obtained through automatic messages. It is impossible to ask
questions without forming some kind of expectation or guess as
to what the answer may be, and this probably brings into play
the normal consciousness of the automatist, and so affects the
results. Self-suggestion in such a case may act so as to
produce a statement in accordance with the conscious expec
tation ; or it may equally well inhibit the conscious expectation
and produce a contrary statement. The fact of a statement
being unexpected thus by no means proves that it is not of
subjective origin.
The somewhat fantastic Latin sentences that follow the
statements about the death do not seem to have any con
nection with them, and may, of course, have an entirely
different origin. They are quoted here merely in order that
the case may be presented as completely as possible.
LUMINOUS APPEARANCES IN CONNECTION WITH
THE WELSH REVIVAL.
MR. FRYER'S paper on " Psychological Aspects of the Welsh
Revival " in Proceedings S.P.R., Part LI., gives several instances
of mysterious lights seen in connection with it, and a further
case was given in the Journal for December, 1906. Mr. Fryer
now sends us the following note on two other alleged cases :
At the end of March, 1906, the newspapers announced that lights
had been seen in connection with Mrs. Jones's mission at Tregaron,
in Cardiganshire. One account has it that as "half-a-dozen men
were returning from a prayer-meeting they looked back and saw
a ball of light coming towards them from the direction of Berth.
After proceeding for some distance it divided into two, and, as
some say, into three halls. These proceeded towards them, forming
little circles in the air as they approached, and in a short time
MAB., 1907. Luminous Appearances in Welsh Revival. 41
they united, and then, in the form of a star encircled in light,
came towards the people. Afterwards it went back in the direction
of Berth Chapel." Mr. LI. T. Jones, B.Sc., a schoolmaster in the
neighbourhood, made an investigation into the subject, and in the
Western Mail of April 5th, 1906, published his conclusions. He
found that the lights were partly due to reflections from a fire
of refuse, and in part to furze burning. His experiments included
a repetition of the furze-burning by the farm servant who was at the
work on the night when the excited revivalists saw the lights first.
His report is too long for insertion here, but it leaves us in no
doubt as to the purely mundane nature of the lights at Tregaron.
In February, 1906, lights were seen at and near the Galvinistic
Chapel at Cwmgeiad, near Ystradgynlais, by the chapel keeper,
Mrs. Powell, and also by the minister of the chapel, the Rev. W.
Griffiths. After having received answers to questions sent to Mrs.
Powell I visited the scene of the alleged occurrences on April 19th
and interviewed Mrs. Powell and the minister, Mr. Griffiths.
Both gave me accounts of what they had seen, and pointed out
the places where the lights had been seen. The former saw the
lights stretching out in rays from her back door (the house adjoins
the chapel) over the garden trees. The latter saw a star-like
appearance in the heavens, not near the chapel, but from the back
of his house a quarter of a mile away. The chief light appeared
to travel from out of one valley towards the east, across the hills
to the west, and to the valley in which the chapel stands. The
distance apparently travelled must have been more than a mile.
Mr. Griffiths also saw lights when driving with Mrs. Jones to
Seven Sisters for a service, and again he says he saw a light at
the chapel at Ystalyfera, not very far from Ystradgynlais. Mrs.
Jones was at the chapel house when the lights were seen by Mrs.
Powell, and the latter says that she asked Mrs. Jones whether
such a vision would be granted to her. As the hour was late
(2 a.m.) and there had been much conversation about the subject,
it is perhaps not surprising that the wish was gratified.
I have made repeated endeavours to obtain from Mr. Griffiths
a written account of what he saw, and have furnished him with
a map of the district, on which I asked that the course of the light
might be marked. I also sent him copies of the photographs taken
of the various places where the lights are said to have been seen,
but I can get no answer, and all that can be concluded is that,
according to the spoken testimony, something was seen, but what
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
must remain undecided. Mr. Griffiths is not the only person who
is willing to talk at any length about the "supernatural," but is
unwilling to put his evidence on paper.
COEBESPONDENCE.
I.
ON Miss JOHNSON'S RECENT SITTINGS FOR PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
IN AMERICA.
U.S.A., 26/A January, 1907.
I HAVE read with the greatest interest the synopsis of Miss Alice
Johnson's paper on "Some Recent Sittings for Physical Phenomena
in America," printed in the January Journal of the S.P.R.
Speaking generally, I fear that Miss Johnson's hypothesis perplexes
me almost as much as do the phenomena themselves. As I have the
greatest respect for her opinion and for her great abilities as an
investigator, I have tried hard to reconcile Miss Johnson's views
with my own observations, but up to the present time with only
partial success. After stretching her conclusions to their limit, they
could only be available in the case of some of the occurrences,
whilst in the more remarkable phenomena they seem to me to be
almost inadmissible.
Take for instance the moving of various objects on the top of the
table when apparently no one was touching the table, such as the
rolling backwards and forwards of a lead pencil, the agitation of
various liquids in transparent glass bottles. I cannot see how any
automatic action could produce such phenomena without being
instantly detected.
Then again—What about the levitation ? We all saw the table
rise from the ground, or thought we did, and three of us who had
our hands upon it felt the upward movement also, or thought we
did. I have seen the table perform the same act before, and once
without apparent contact.
Miss Johnson and I tried afterwards various methods of produc
ing the same phenomenon fraudulently with our feet, but our efforts
were so ridiculously obvious that it was hard to suppose they could
have remained unnoticed by any one in the room. Moreover, when
the levitation in question occurred, Mrs. Williams' son, a bright
MAE., 1907. Correspondence. 43
and intelligent lad of 15, declared that he could see under the
table and that nobody's foot was there,
"Tis STRANGE 'tis pity, and pity 'tis 'tis STRANGE."
It is a matter which we all regret that Miss Johnson did not
witness some of the most remarkable things—which however happen
only occasionally. Of course this could not be helped. It was
unfortunate that several members of the best circle we have here
were away when Miss Johnson came. However, as she says, she
saw a fair average of the sittings.
From the many long and most interesting and instructive talks
I have had with Miss Johnson on things psychic, I have learned
much and find myself generally in full accord with her views; but
the pill composed of automatic raps, taps, table tilts, table move
ments with and without apparent contact, which she has given me
is, I find, difficult to swallow, and in the present impoverished
condition of my psychic digestion I must be allowed a little time
for its assimilation.
Sir Oliver Lodge has struck a new key (to me at least) which
seems to excite my psychic tympanum into sympathetic response.
He says—"the occurrences sometimes were such as to suggest a
sort of nervous explosion or stimulus giving rise to muscular actions
in the body at the same time that it affected objects at a little
distance from the body." I am glad to note that Miss Johnson
agrees with Sir Oliver in this, and so I intend trying a dose of it
immediately, and whilst of course I cannot tell just what the result
•will be, yet I will carefully observe the symptoms and report upon
them later on, if I may.
As psychical phenomena appear just now to be "in the air,"—
or, as Miss Johnson would say, "a wide-spread epidemic of rapping"
is now raging,—would it not be well for members of the S.P.R. to
form circles, when and where convenient, for the purpose of ex
periment 1 It seems probable that some systematic and regular
experiments, carefully recorded, would throw much light upon these
interesting but obscure phenomena.
JOHN H. GOWER.
February 20th, 1906.
In the paper which I read before the Society last December I
was only able to give a brief account of what had occurred before
my visit to America, since most of the limited time at my command
had to be spent in describing and discussing my own experiences.
44- Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
This may, I am afraid, have given a somewhat disproportionate
view of the whole series of the phenomena, and the disproportion
has been still further emphasised by the brevity of the report in
the Journal, to which my friend Dr. Gower alludes. I did, however,
state in my paper (and this is repeated in the Journal report) that
while the raps could, I thought, be explained as due to the uncon
scious automatic muscular action of the sitters, it was obviously far
more difficult—though perhaps not quite impossible—to apply the
explanation of automatism to the levitations of the table which I
had witnessed, "and it seemed altogether inapplicable to the more
decisive movements without contact that were reported by the other
witnesses to have occurred at the earlier sittings."
In the full report, which will, I hope, appear in the next Part of
the Proceedings, I propose to give verbatim the records of these earlier
sittings, so that readers may have before them all the material avail
able for forming a judgment on the case. I need hardly add that
I fully recognise the great weight that should be attached to Dr.
Grower's opinion, since he is not only an experienced investigator,
but was present himself at the whole series of sittings, and conse
quently has had a far better opportunity than I have had of coming
to a definite conclusion about them.
ALICE JOHNSON.
II.
ON EXPERIMENTS WITH THE STHENOMETER.
[Dr. P. Joire, whose experiments with the sthenometer were
criticised by Mr. Stratton and Mr. Phillips in the Journal for
last December, asks us to insert the following reply from him,
which appeared originally in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques
for the same month. We add a brief rejoinder from Mr.
Stratton.—ED.]
Certains experimentateurs ont sembl6 s'efforcer de demontrer que
la chaleur peut avoir une action sur un corps leger et en particulier
sur 1'aiguille du sthenometre.
Cette demonstration etait parfaitement inutile, car nous savons
depuis longtemps que la chaleur peut determiner des courants dans
1'air et d6placer, par consequent, les corps qui s'y trouvent.
Quiconque veut se donner la peine de lire ce que j'ai 6crit
dans les Annales de juillet-aout 1904, p. 250, verra que je ne nie
pas "que les forces susdites (la chaleur) puisserit, dans certaines
MAB., 1907. Correspondence. 45
conditions, produire une action analogue ; mais j'ai dit que, dans les
conditions oil je me suis placd, elles ne s'enoncent pas ; et que, dans
les experiences telles que je les ai indiqutes, une autre force entre en
jeu." Je renvoie maintenant le lecteur aux experiences par lesquelles
j'ai eiimine la chaleur, p. 248. J'ajoute une autre experience faite
depuis : j'ai porte Pair interieur de la cloche a une temperature de
45° C. Dans ces conditions, la main mettait encore 1'aiguille en
mouvement. Pense-t-on que la chaleur de la main ait pu ajouter
•quelque chose a une temperature de 45°?
Je citerai encore une autre experience faite par un autre expert-
mentateur, M. Jounet, et publiee dans I'Echo du Merveilleux, 1OT
octobre 1905, p. 380.
Le sthenometre, dit M. Jounet, etant installe sur un support
parfaitement stable, je posai doucement la bouillotte a c6te du sthe-
nometre, le flauc de la bouillotte en face de la pointe de 1'aiguille.
L'aiguille etait immobile sur un degre dont je notai le numero.
Je m'eioignai au fond de la piece et comptai sur ma montre cinq
minutes. Au retour, je constatai que 1'aiguille avait 6t6 attiree de
21°. Le doute ne me paraissait plus possible. La chaleur de 1'eau
transmise par le metal agissait certainement sur le sthenometre.
Pourtant, la main placee en face de 1'aiguille immobile, pendant
<sinq minutes, egalement 1'attira de 38".
Or, la chaleur de la bouillotte a Pexterieur, mesuree avec un ther-
mometre exact, etait de 40'8°.
La chaleur de la main, mesuree avec le me'tne thermometre et
pendant le mSme temps (3 minutes) que celle de la bouillotte, etait
de 35° et demi.
Done la bouillotte, avec une chaleur plus forte, avait eu une
action moindre ; la main, avec une chaleur moindre, une action plus
forte.
L'experience de M. Jounet, que je viens de citer textuellement,
est bien concluante.
La chaleur peut agir sur 1'aiguille du sthenometre ; je n'ai jamais
dit le contraire.
Mais si une bouillotte attire 1'aiguille de 21° d'une temperature
•de 40'8°, si, d'autre part, la main, d'une temperature de 35'5° attire
1'aiguille de 38°, on ne niera pas, je suppose, qu'il y a, dans 1'epreuve
de la main, une force autre que celle de la chaleur. C'est ce qu'il
fallait demontrer.
Au surplus, qu'on se donne la peine de lire dans le me"me article
de M. Jounet, m^me numero de I'Echo du Merveilkux, les experiences
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
qu'il a faites avec un animal a sang froid, une grenouille. En ce
qui concerne mon sthenometre, M. Jounet dit :
"Le c6t6 gauche de la grenouille, place aupres du sthenometre
Joire, pendant 17 minutes, exerca une repulsion de 30°."
Est-ce encore la chaleur qui agit dans ce cas ?
Et dans les experiences plus recentes que j'ai publiees sur 1'em-
magasinement de la force dans diffeients corps, est-ce aussi la
chaleur qui produit la deviation de 1'aiguille?
En resume, de nombreuses experiences faites par differents ex-
perimentateurs ont demontre qu'une force, autre que la chaleur,
emanant du corps humain agit sur Paiguille du sthenometre.
D* P. JOIRE.
LILLK, 16 novemhre 1906.
Dr. Joire repeats the statement made in his first paper that heat
can produce the motion observed in the sthenometer, but he claims
that in the conditions under which he has experimented, heat is not
the agent. In reply to this I can only say that this statement can
hold good simply for the one experiment he records in which he
strove to eliminate the effect of heat by using a screen of cotton
wool. In experiments conducted with the hand according to the
instructions given in the circular accompanying the instrument when
bought (and in the way suggested by Dr. Joire in his papers), heat
radiated from the hand is present in sufficient amount to account
for the motion observed, and to mask completely any other force
which might or might not be present. This is easily proved by
holding the hand in cold water for some minutes before experi
menting, when the effect may be made to vanish ; or by heating it
in front of a fire, when the effect will increase.
I repeat that heat being known to produce the effect observed,
care must be taken in all experiments designed to prove the exist
ence of a " new force " to screen the sthenometer carefully from heat
rays. Whenever this has been done, so far as I have been able to
observe, the motion of the needle has vanished. Dr. Joire does not
give sufficient details of his one experiment along these lines to
enable it to be repeated exactly, while his other experiments, in so
far as they have any bearing on the question, support my hypothesis.
P. J. M. STRATTON.
DR. TUCKEY'S "HYPNOTISM."
THE fifth edition of Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey's well-known work
on Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion is just about to
appear, with an introductory chapter by Sir Francis Cruise,
Mar., 1907. Dr. Tuckey's " Hypnotism,." 47
M.D., Physician to the King in Ireland. The first edition,
under the title of Psycho-Therapeutics, was published in 1889,
the second in 1890, the third in 1891, and the fourth in
1900. In each case the book was thoroughly revised and
considerably enlarged, the first edition consisting only of 80 pp.,
while the fourth amounts to 372 pp. The present edition
again contains a good deal of additional matter, partly drawn
from the latest edition of Professor Forel's Hypnotism, of which
Dr. Tuckey speaks in his Preface with special admiration, and
partly from his own recent practical experience, as well as
that of other English and foreign workers in the same field.
There is also a very full and comprehensive Index.
" England (says Dr. Tuckey) still continues much behind
other countries in taking up [hypnotic] treatment ; but there
is much less prejudice against it than formerly, especially
among medical men. Perhaps the decrease in the amount of
acute and gross disease and the increase of functional and
nervous disorders have something to do with this changed
attitude. The growth of fantastic systems of ' mind-cure ' is
a real danger to scientific medicine, as well as to the public,
and the study of psycho-therapeutics will do more than any
thing else to help us to understand and combat these forms
of quackery. They flourish because so many medical men in
the past have ignored the psychical factor in disease, and the
public therefore have been constrained to seek advice outside
the profession." He adds that the formation of an English
society of medical men interested in the theory and practice
of suggestive therapeutics 1 will afford the encouragement and
support so much needed by isolated practitioners, and will
bring to light much excellent material which is being lost for
want of collection.
To all these ends Dr. Tuckey's own advocacy of the subject,
and not least his interesting and instructive book, have greatly
contributed, and our readers will no doubt be glad to know of
the new edition. It is published by Messrs. Bailliere, Tindall
& Cox, 8 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, at the
price of 10s. 6d. net.
1 The Medical Society for the Study of Suggestive Therapeutics, of which
Dr. Tnckey himself ia President. A brief notice of this Society was given
in the January Journal.
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1907.
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PSYCHIATRY.
AN International Congress of Psychiatry, Neurology, Psychology,
and the Care of the Insane is to be held at Amsterdam on
September 2nd-7th, 1907. In the preliminary programme,
which has just been sent to us, it is stated that the Congress
was first determined on at a meeting of the Netherlands
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology on July 24th, 1903,
when it was pointed out that the important position which
the study of nervous and mental diseases now holds in the
sphere of medical science, and the great social interests involved
in a sound knowledge of psychological phenomena, make it
imperative to have recourse from time to time to a wider
and at the same time more specialised field of discussion than
can be provided by a general medical congress.
In the organisation of the proposed Congress the schemes of
those already held at Brussels and Paris have been followed,
with the addition of a special section for psychology and
psychophysics.
The General Committee contains the names of a large
number of medical men who in various towns and districts
of the Netherlands are engaged in the special departments of
medicine to be dealt with by the Congress ; while the Inter
national Committee consists of distinguished representatives of
the same science from other countries. Great Britain and
Ireland are represented in this preliminary list by Dr. W.
Ireland, of Musselburgh ; Dr. J. H. Macdonald, of Glasgow ;
Drs. J. Macpherson and W. Ford Robertson, of Edinburgh ;
Dr. Hamilton C. Marr, of Lenzie ; Dr. A. R. Urquhart, of
Perth ; and Dr. Conolly Norman, of Dublin.
Persons who take an interest in Psychiatry, Neurology,
Psychology, and the care of the insane are invited to become
members of the Congress, the subscription to which is 16s. 8d.
The languages used will be English, French, and German.
Any person who wishes to read a paper at the Congress is
asked to send a synopsis of it to the Secretary before
May 1st. All applications for information or for membership
should be addressed to the General Secretaries, DRS. J. VAN
DEVENTER SZN. and G. VAN WAYENBURG, Wilhelminahuis,
Prinsengracht 717, Amsterdam.
No. CCXXXVIIL—VOL. XIII. APRIL, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
- 49 PAGE
New Members and Associates, - 50 Private Meeting for Members and
Meeting of the Council, Associates, - - 50
- 52
Case, -
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ARMSTRONG, CHARLES W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
CLAPP, MRS. EMMA A., 3941 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Coit, Stanton, Ph.D., 30 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
DOUGLAS, MRS. CHAS., Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
FRANCIS, ARTHUR, Hillhurst, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
FRANKLIN, MRS. E. L., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Fraser, John, 14 Park Mansions, Battersea Park, London, S.W.
GOORE, ALBERT, Rosemount, Meadvale, Redhill, Surrey.
HALLETT, HENRY HIRAM, Bridge House, Taunton.
HAWKINS, Miss MADGE P., M.D., 107 North 8th Street, Terre Haute,
Ind., U.S.A.
JENKINSON, WM. ERNEST, 8 Albert Promenade, Savile Park, Hali
fax, Yorkshire.
LIBRARIAN, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
LLOYD, JUDGE FRANK T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
MOWER, MRS. GEORGE, Winona, Lovelace Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
POPE, HENRY, Northridge, Longcroft Avenue, Harpenden.
Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton.
SILVA, Miss DOHA F., Itchen Abbas, Alresford, Hampshire.
WOHLGEMUTH, ADOLPH, B.Sc., 44 Church Crescent, Muswell Hill,
London, N.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 83rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, March 25th, 1907, at
3 p.m. ; Professor Barrett in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt,
Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. L.
Le M. Taylor, and Miss Alice Johnson, Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed
as correct.
Three new Members and fifteen new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for January and February, 1907,
were presented and read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
THE 18th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only
was held in the large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London,
W., on Monday, March 25th, 1907, at 4 p.m., Sir Oliver
Lodge in the chair.
A paper on " Some Experiments in Thought-Transference
by Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden " was read by PROFESSOR
W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S. The paper is not summarised here,
as it is intended to be printed in full later.
SIR OLIVER LODGE said he thought it very important that
experiments of this kind should be tried in order to find out
something about the conditions and processes involved. For
instance, nothing was known as to whether distance affected
the results. A few cases were on record where people had
supernormal knowledge of the contents of letters after they
had reached the house but before they had been opened, and
this suggested that proximity was favourable. But in many
other cases, as in the experiments just described, distance
seemed no obstacle, and the supposed favourable effect of
proximity might be due merely to suggestion or to its being
easier to direct one's attention to a person in the same room.
So far there was no evidence that physical conditions had
APRIL, 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 51
any effect one way or the other ; still, as soon as we got to
the point of being able to control the results at all, it would
be worth while to try definite experiments as to whether
material obstacles, such as distance or the interposition of
different substances, interfered. Whether telepathy were purely
mental or not, it was a phenomenon of transcendent importance,
much more so than was at all generally realised. It has been
variously regarded as the vanishing trace of a faculty once
universal, or as the rudiment of a power only now beginning
to develop. It may further be the universal means of com
munication beyond the world of matter. It is the root
discovery of our Society. Many sporadic instances had, of
course, been recorded in earlier days, but they had never been
collected and classified under one unifying category, and con
sequently had been little understood. Telepathy may not be
the one and only explanation of supernormal phenomena, as
Mr. Podmore in especial has tried to maintain ; but since the
great majority of such phenomena are at least capable of this
interpretation, it is well worth while to consider carefully
how far all may be due to it, provided that we do not reject
well-evidenced facts only because they cannot be thus explained.
PROFESSOR BARRETT, in answer to various questions about
the paper read, observed that there was no close correspond
ence of time between the impressions of the agent and the
percipient; the latter often obtaining glimpses of what had
been in the former's mind a few hours previously. It was
also noteworthy that some of the most successful results were
obtained when the agent was not consciously and deliberately
trying to impress the percipient at all. As in so many other
psychical regions, the faculties exercised seemed to be those
of the subliminal self, and not in any way under the control
of the normal consciousness and will. He believed that what
was most wanted in our researches was further experimenta
tion on different forms of automatism. Automatic writing was
one most important method of getting at the contents of the
subliminal mind, but few persons could practise it to any
good effect. There were, however, many who could use other
" autoscopes," as he had called them,—who could, for instance,
tilt tables or cause a ring suspended by their fingers,—the
pendule explorateur,—to vibrate ; this and the Dowsing rod were
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
two of the simplest and best forms of " autoscope." The move
ments of the dowsing rod, which were due to the unconscious
muscular action of the person holding it, revealed subconscious
ideas in his mind. If he had a subconscious impression (whether
derived from clairvoyance or from some other cause, such as
imagination) of the presence of underground water, the rod would
move in his hands. A few persons, of whom Miss Miles was one,
were able to visualise the impressions obtained in this way, so
as to become conscious of them. Thus Miss Miles, who was an
expert dowser, when going over a tract of land to find under
ground water, did not use a rod at all, but actually visualised
the water in certain spots; and in some cases where these
impressions of hers had been tested, they had been found to
be correct. Most dowsers, however, were aware of nothing
beyond the movement of the rod in their hands, but the
ultimate mental process was no doubt the same in all cases.
The rod, or any small object held in the hand to reveal
its unconscious muscular action, can be used in searching for
any hidden objects and not only water. If a coin e.g. is
hidden under a carpet, a person who tries to find it may be
able to do so by means of the movement of the rod. This
is a simple form of experiment which any one can try. It
is of course important that any person who knows where the
hidden object is should carefully avoid giving indications to
the searcher ; in fact, it would be much better that none of
the persons watching him, or even in the same room with
him, should know, because it is practically impossible to avoid
indications that may be subliminally perceived. It is obvious
that simple experiments in thought-transference may be devised
along these lines, and perhaps greater success would result
than has been found by the more ordinary methods.
CASE.
G. 281. "Haunted House."
In the following case, we have by request substituted
throughout assumed names for the real ones in the original
documents, which are in our possession. Mrs. Fletcher,
formerly Mrs. Eussell, called on the Secretary and gave a
APRIL, 1907. 53
Case.
verbal account of the case ; afterwards she sent a written
report, with supplementary statements from some of the other
witnesses. The case would have been printed some time ago
but that it was hoped that further testimony would be forth
coming. Mrs. Fletcher's account is as follows :
July 20th, 1904.
(1) The house in which the incidents to be described occurred is an
Elizabethan manor house. My first husband, Captain Russell, and
I took it in 1876, and made some additions and a few alterations,
but with the exception of abolishing a staircase in the East corridor,
making the East room into two rooms—called East and White—
and blocking up a doorway between the South room and the Oak
room, the portion of the house mentioned in the following state
ment, viz. : Oak Hall, oak staircase with upper corridor along two
sides of Oak Hall, East corridor, East bedroom, South room and
Oak room, and the Dining room, have not been altered or re
modelled or done anything to. [See rough diagram, not drawn to
scale, of the first floor of this part of the house.]
NURSERIES, ETC
~ SWING-DOOR
OAK
ROOM
EAST
DRESSING ROOM
BATH
ROOM
SOUTH ROOM
INNER
BATH
ROOM
WHITE
ROOM
EAST
ROOM
Owing to an appointment Captain Eussell held in the Navy, we
did not take up our residence at the house till late in 1880, and
though I heard servants' vague gossip as to the house being haunted,
I saw nothing myself till one afternoon either quite at the end of
April or at the beginning of May, 1881. An old friend of mine,
Miss James (now dead), was staying here, and we had been picking
a quantity of primroses to send away the next day. She occupied
the East room, and myself (as always) the South room on the first
floor. The other rooms in this part of the house—East dressing
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
room, White room, and Oak room—were empty, and, with the Oak
staircase going down into the Oak Hall, they are completely shut
off by a glass swing door from the rest of the house (nurseries,
schoolroom, smaller bedrooms, etc.), and unless specially rung for,
no servants are there after doing their usual work. I was standing
in my door-way in the South room about 4 o'clock on this after
noon, when I saw a figure pass, from my right to left, along the
corridor at top of Oak staircase ; but as the doors of South and
White rooms are in a kind of alcove in the thickness of the wall,
I could not see if it went into the Oak room or along the corridor
towards the glass swing door, but it certainly did not go down
the Oak staircase, which was in my sight. The figure moved very
quickly, with head bent low down on folded arms. It was clothed
in black, with a hood or cowl with a white lining thrown back,
and there were pipings, or folds of white, on the drapery. Although
I knew Miss James was not dressed like this, I took it for granted
it was she, and at once went to the Oak room, where we usually
kept the flowers for packing, saying as I opened the door, "Never
mind the primroses. It is too late to pack them now." No one
was in the room. I then went to the East room, where I found
Miss James, who had not left it. I told her what I had seen, and
have often spoken of it.
We left the house from 1881 to 1884. In October, 1884, one
evening I saw a figure in black and white drapery standing at the
top of lower half of Oak staircase, where the stairs form a right
angle, and where there is a small landing. I was in the Oak Hall,
looking up the staircase. It appeared to me as if white drapery were
folded round the shoulders. The same year I caught a momentary
glimpse of the figure descending the Oak staircase, whilst I was
passing along the corridor alone.
One morning in February, 1886, when I was in bed in the South
room, about ten days after the birth of my third girl, Eglantine,
my monthly nurse, Mrs. H., came in from an inner bathroom,
leading out of my room to the South, (not the door giving on the
corridor and Oak staircase,) put down a basin very hurriedly,
returned to the inner bathroom, and came back after a few moments
looking disturbed and annoyed, and said somewhat imperatively,
" Mrs. Russell, I can allow no one in your room during my
absence." I replied, "No one has been in," to which she answered
indignantly, "Why, when I came in with the basin just now I
saw Agatha by the foot of your bed. She must not come in. I
APRIL, 1907. Case. 55
will not allow it"; and forthwith she hunted up Agatha, who was
in the nursery with the children's nurse, and began to scold her
till Agatha proved an alibi \ Mrs. H. then passed it off as a reflec
tion in the panels of my wardrobe, but afterwards, when I was
well again, she said she distinctly saw a woman standing at the foot
of my bed, dressed in black, with white drapery on her shoulders
and white piping or pleating on the skirt; and as Agatha, who
was my maid, habitually wore a black dress with white muslin
"fichu" and small apron, she thought it was she.
In 1897, Captain Russell told me he saw a black-hooded figure
in the White room, which he was occupying.
In 1891, a great friend of mine, Rev. Thomas Dixon, occupied
the White room, and one morning came down to breakfast obviously
greatly disturbed. He told me that whilst lying in bed wide awake,
a bright fire burning, he saw a hooded figure standing in one corner
of the room. It was quite distinct, and remained for some little
time and then vanished.
In 1891, my eldest son saw a figure in black pass along the Oak
Hall corridor, pass the Oak room, and disappear through the closed
door of White room ; and the same year Miss Margaret Stewart,
who was staying here, saw it in the same place.]
In 1896, Miss Atkins Church saw it in the White room, which
she was then occupying.
In June, 1900, Mrs. Atkins Church on going into the East room,
which she was occupying, saw a woman in a black dress standing
with her back towards her at the far end of the room by the
dressing table, and, thinking it was my children's nurse, said,
"Well, nurse, can I do anything for you?" whereupon the figure
faded away.
In June, 1901, my eldest son asked me one morning 'if I had
noticed anything during dinner the preceding evening, and on my
replying, No, he questioned me several times, and at last said,
"Well, the dark lady was standing behind your chair during the
soup course."
On Nov. 5th, 1902, I met our governess, Miss Hall, the other
side of the swing glass door leading to the nursery, went through
this door, followed after a moment or two by her, and to the
(empty) drawing room. After a little she asked me if Mr. Fletcher,
my present husband, had come downstairs with me. I replied, " No.
He went to the Library quite ten minutes before I met you near
the nursery." She then said she had seen a figure in black pass
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
through the swing glass door in front of me, go down the corridor
and into the Oak room (which is his dressing room), and she was
electrified at seeing him, as she thought, swing the glass door in
my face, and waited till I was well ahead of her, as she didn't wish
him (in the Oak room, as she supposed) to hear her make any
remark.
I enclose the account of Jan. 18th, 1903, of my daughter,
Eglantine (aged 17), and also that of Mr. Fletcher's niece, Miss
Dorothy Fletcher (aged 19).
In May this year Eglantine saw the figure follow me along the
corridor. She told me at the time, but we forgot to write down
the date.
No one has ever seen the face of the figure. It is invariably
in black and white. I do not know of any misfortune attendant
on seeing it, though certainly Mr. Dixon died very suddenly about
a year after his vision, and Mrs. Atkins Church lost her only son
two months after her experience. Beyond a vague story of a,
laundry-maid having been strangled ages ago, I know of no story
connected with the house. The old laundry was in the West wing,
quite remote from the East and Oak corridors. Very sad family
troubles, of quite different orders, came to my sister and myself in
1881, which is the only time I saw the figure absolutely distinctly.
I do not know if the figure belongs to the house or to me.
One of the attic bedrooms over the East room had a curious
stone kind of seat, like a coffin almost, or rather a sarcophagus,
built out of the wall. This was removed without my knowledge,
and I do not know if it contained anything. Servants sleeping in this
room have averred they felt a cold damp hand passed over their
faces. In the old part of the West wing, a perfectly trustworthy
witness told me she had seen a man in his shirt sleeves go up the
staircase in front of her and into the West bedroom. She thought
he was a workman, and followed him into the room—to find it
empty !
I add a rough plan of the corridors and staircase where the
dark lady has been seen—perhaps " gallery " is a better word to
use than corridor for the two sides round Oak Hall, as they are
open to the roof. [This plan is reproduced above.]
In 1902, my daughter Eglantine was looking into a crystal, and
saw the " dark lady " standing with her arms folded, cowl over
head, head bent to her arms, in strongest moonlight in the Oak
Hall, but described the thickly carpeted floor as a black and white
APRIL, 1907. Case. 57
pavement. Under the carpet, now removed, there is a very fine
stone pavement with black marble diamonds let in.
No one is quite certain whether it is a woman's figure, or a
monk in robes and cowl, except Dorothy Fletcher.
Mrs. Fletcher adds on July 30th, 1904:
I have found a pencil scribble note that my son last saw the
Dark Lady behind my chair in [the] dining-room, Wednesday,
May 21st, 1902.
Miss Eglantine Eussell writes :
At about five minutes to eight on Jan. 18th, 1903, I was
standing by the stained-glass door by the nursery, watching Mother
go down the passage to her room. As she got on a level with
the Oak room door I saw a figure following her; it was dressed
in black with a little white about it, and it seemed to follow
Mother into the alcove by the White room door. I thought
at first it was Alexandra, but she was upstairs in her own room
and no one had been along the passage except Mother.
Miss Dorothy Fletcher writes :
April 29th, 1904.
At about ten minutes to seven on the evening of May 22nd,
1900, I was walking up the front staircase. I was quite alone
in that part of the house. When I got up about four steps, I
suddenly stopped with the feeling of another presence. Looking
up I saw, to my no little surprise, the figure of a woman in
black coming down the top half of the stairs. She had her arms
folded, and her head rather bowed. She came down to the small
landing where the staircase forms a right angle, a few steps above
me, and then disappeared. If it had not been for her clothes
and sudden disappearance, I might easily have taken her for a
human being. I could not see the face, as she was wearing a
black drapery which covered her head and formed a sort of mantle
very like the old pictures of Jewish women. I was not frightened
by her. It was yet quite light and the sun shining. I walked
up to where I had seen her and looked all round. There was no
sign of anybody. I was not then aware that the "dark lady"
had been seen on the staircase, although I knew of her appearance
in other parts of the house.
(2) Another apparition frequently seen in the house is that
of a little white dog, which Mrs. Fletcher describes as follows :
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research,. APRIL, 1907.
July 29th, 1904.
The little white dog first made its appearance in Jan., 1900.
My husband, Mr. Fletcher, came out of the Library, where he had
been sitting alone, one afternoon, and said to me, "I saw a white
dog in the Library just now." I laughed and said, "Not unlikely,"
as our two, Juno and Nipper, are always about ; but he looked
very grave, and replied, " I do not mean one of your dogs. I was
writing in the Library just now, and saw a small white dog go
round the table towards the door, which was shut. I th&ught it
was Nipper and got up to open the door for her, and then found
there was no dog in the room at all."
After this the little canine apparition was seen frequently by
ourselves, our servants, and our guests, including Miss Plumtre,
whose account I enclose, and her brother, who saw it outside the
house; but I have kept no dates unfortunately, except in the
following cases, and Miss Hall's enclosure.
One evening in Dec., 1900, Miss Hall, my daughter Eglantine
and I were carrying a lot of Christmas parcels from the Drawing
room up to my boudoir, which leads out of it up a narrow and
very steep staircase. I went first with a large tray in my hands;
Miss Hall next, carrying a candle (there was no light on the
stairs) ; Eglantine last.
As I reached the top steps of the staircase, where the staircase
turns a little and the steps on the banister side are fined away to
nothing, I felt a dog press past me, between the banisters and my
legs, on the banister side. We had been joking about the two
terriers who never leave me, and wondering if they would follow me
out of the drawing room, where they had been playing with the
string and paper of the parcels, and when I felt this, I said,
"Well, here's one of them at all events." Miss Hall said, "Yes,
I saw it go up the stairs," and Eglantine said, "I don't know
which one it was, but its nose touched my leg." When we got
into the boudoir no dog was there, and I at once went down
again to the drawing room, where both dogs were asleep. The
part of my leg, midway between knee and hip, against which the
dog had pressed, had a curious tingling sensation for several hours,
and I described it as "a cold burn." Eglantine was not in the
room when I said this, but shortly afterwards she said to me,
" Mother, where the dog's nose touched my leg feels just like a
cold burn."
The boudoir staircase is so steep, and the steps are so much
APBIL, 1907. Case. 59
fined away at the turn, that no living dog could have got between
me and the banister.
In June, 1901, I saw the white dog so distinctly in an outdoor
greenhouse one afternoon that, thinking it was Nipper, I said,
"Hullo, little dog. What are you doing in here?" and just then
one of the children outside called to me, "Mother, if you want
your little dog, she is hiding in the bushes out here."
I have these brief notes :
Tuesday, May 20th, 1902. Mr. Fletcher saw the white dog
between the glass swing door and nursery.
Sunday, May 25th, 1902. Eglantine saw the white dog in Oak
room about 8.30 p.m.
The undated apparitions were :
One afternoon (probably in 1901) when I was coming into the
Oak Hall, through a swing door from the outer hall with my son,
I noticed he kept this swing door open after I had passed through.
I looked back to see why, and he said, "It's for your little dog,
Mother. I am afraid of treading on her." There was no dog there,
but he distinctly saw one following me.
The other was one evening when we had as usual let the terriers
out for a run before bedtime. I was calling Nipper, and Miss
Hall said, "I do wonder you call your little dog when she is
close beside you." Both Juno and Nipper were out of doors, but
she saw a white dog lying down close to my dress.
I once in my bedroom (South room) felt a dog lay its paws on
my lap. We have all of us heard a dog come up the boudoir stairs,
but this sounds a much heavier tread than that of our terriers ;
and of course the dog that pushed past me on the stairs must
have been larger, as both our terriers are very low on the leg.
I can trace no sort of story connected with the vision. Before
Nipper came into my possession thirteen years ago, I had a similar
rough-coated white terrier, also a great favourite.
Eglantine saw the apparition some time in May this year, 1904.
The governess, Miss Hall, writes as follows :
July 30th, 1904.
One night when in the Oak Hall just before going to bed, the
two dogs went out for a run. Whilst waiting for them to come
in, I thought I saw Mrs. Fletcher's special little dog close by the
table which was in the middle of the hall. As she still kept call
ing her in, I said, " Why do you still call J I saw Nipper by the
table." Nipper was still outside with the other dog.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
One afternoon I was writing in the schoolroom (my back to the
door) when I heard the door open and shut, but on turning round
I saw no one. A short time after, the maid came in to get tea
ready, I asked her if she had opened the door a short time
before. She replied, "I saw the little dog lying on the mat and
opened the door to let it in."
On Nov. 5th, 1902, when approaching the swing glass door
between nursery and Oak Hall gallery, to go down to dinner, I
saw Mrs. Fletcher before me, coming from the nursery; and in
front of her I saw a figure in black pass through the swing glass
door and let it close in her face. Mr. Fletcher is in the habit of
going to the nursery with Mrs. Fletcher before dinner, and I thought
the figure was he, and was much astonished to see the door shut
in her face. I did not follow immediately, so did not see in which
direction the figure went, but was under the impression it went to
the Oak room. I waited a few minutes, so that Mr. Fletcher should
not hear me, and then asked Mrs. Fletcher if he had not been in
front of her when she left the nursery. She replied that he had
gone to the Library quite ten minutes before she was dressed for
dinner, and had not been to the nursery with her at all.
Miss Plumtre, one of the ladies referred to in Mrs. Fletcher's
account, writes as follows, the account being enclosed in a
letter from Mrs. Fletcher, dated August 1st, 1904:
I had come over for painting lesson, but Mary was still out, so
I went up to her room and washed for lunch. When I got to the
bottom of the staircase, I met Miss Hall carrying a vase of flowers,
so I opened the swing door to let her pass into the front part of
the house. I noticed an ordinary white terrier following her, so I
held open the door to let it pass through also. Then through the
glass I watched it, and saw the dog suddenly vanish into nothing.
It did not run down the stairs, or disappear into one of the rooms,
it simply was not ! I thought this rather funny, so afterwards
spoke to Mary about it. "Oh, don't you know? That must be
the Dog Ghost that you have seen." It was winter time, but the
exact date I have forgotten—about two years and a quarter ago.
A more recent appearance of the little white dog was
described by Miss Eglantine Eussell, about three weeks after
she saw it, as follows :
While at dinner on August 4th, 1904, I looked quickly down
and saw a white terrier pass between myself and my neighbour,
APRIL, 1907. Case. 61
and go under the table. This I saw quite distinctly • I don't remember
seeing the head of the dog, which would almost be hidden under
the cloth, as it was making its way under the table. I was so
convinced that only my mother saying quietly, "Nipper is by the
parrot's cage," made me realise that it was not one of our dogs
walking from one side of the room to the other. The other terrier
was not in the room. My impression was so strong that I would
have been prepared to swear I saw Nipper go past me. The gentle
man sitting by me did not see anything.
With regard to this case, Mrs. Fletcher writes :
August 23rd, 1904.
During dinner on Thursday, 4th August, 1904, I noticed Eglantine
lean towards her right-hand neighbour and look down between her
chair and his, and thinking she was looking for my terrier Nipper,
about whom we are always anxious at meals, as she is stone deaf
and likely to get trodden upon, I said," "Nipper is asleep behind
you, by the parrot cage." After dinner E. told me she had seen a
white dog go under the table, between her neighbour and herself.
I can vouch for the fact Nipper did not leave the place by
the parrot cage the whole of dinner. She was there in my full
view all the time.
On March 13th, 1905, Mrs. Fletcher wrote enclosing the
following accounts by herself and Miss Hall of later appearances
of the dog :
March 1st, 1905.
About 10.30 p.m. on January 15, 1905, I opened my window to
put out seed for the birds on the sill, and knowing Simon, my
fox-terrier who sleeps in my room, would be roused by the sound
and spring up on the window seat from behind me. which always
startles me, I said to myself, "Now don't be frightened when
Simon jumps up—you know he always does so." At that moment
I felt a dog's nose and head poked under my elbow—just as Simon
does if he wants us to do anything for him, and I turned round
saying, "It's no good, old boy; there are no rats here to-night."
I then found there was nothing near me, and Simon was asleep in
his basket, with his blanket over him, quite undisturbed.
March 1st, 1905.
On the evening of January 15th, 1905, as I came from the nursery
through the glass door into the corridor round the Oak Hall, I saw
a dog which I took to be Simon lying down just through the
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1907.
door (as he often does), and I . raised my foot so as to avoid
stepping on him, and then found there was nothing there.
H. A. HALL.
(3) The following are accounts enclosed in a letter from
Mrs. Fletcher, dated August 23rd, 1904, of an apparition
seen collectively by Mrs. Fletcher's three daughters in the
park belonging to their house. Miss Eglantine Eussell writes :
On December 22nd, 1897, I was walking through the fields near
the house with my sisters, Edith and Eose (both older than myself).
It was quite a sunny afternoon, between three and four o'clock.
Resting at a fence we stopped to talk, myself sitting on the top
railing, the others standing below. Looking across the corner of
the field by an oak tree in the fence, I remember seeing an object,
but listening to the others talking, I didn't take much notice whether
it was man, horse, or cow. Presently Eose, looking up, said,
"There's one of the boys," looking across in the same direction.
"Yes," I replied, "I thought I saw them." "No, it isn't," Eose
continued; "it's a man. Who is it, I wonder? Who can be
wandering about up here 1 We'd better go and see." We started
for the other hedge, which was, I should think, about 50 yards distant.
We had a fox terrier with us ; he growled, and his ruff stood up,
and he refused to come. I cannot now remember whether my sister
Edith walked across with us, or, being nervous, stayed by the
fence. My impression is she came, but a trifle behind Eose and
myself. Walking closer, I saw that it was a man, hanging apparently
from an oak tree in front of some railings over a ditch. He was
dressed in brown, rather brighter than the colour of brown holland ;
he did not seem to have a regular coat, but more of a loose blouse.
One thing I most distinctly recall is his heavy clumsy boots. His
face we could not see ; there was something white over it. The
head hung forward, and the arms drooped forward too. Coming
within about 15 yards I saw the shadow of the railings through
him, one bar across the shoulders, one bar about his waist, and
one almost at his knees, quite distinct, but faint. I have a
remembrance of a big, very black shadow in the background. At
about 15 yards the whole thing disappeared absolutely. We went
to the railing and looked over a clear field beyond, which would
give no possible cover to any one trying to hide. Walking back to
where we had first seen it we saw nothing but an oak tree by
railings in a fence. While I saw it my only feeling, I remember,
APRIL, 1907. Case. 63
was intense Curiosity to see what it was,—one seemed impelled to
go forward; afterwards, sickening terror.
This is some years ago, but writing brings it all back to me.
There may be some details I have forgotten ; but this is the account
as it stands clearly in my mind.
Miss Edith Eussell (now Mrs. Shaw) writes :
I am writing down exactly what I saw, in conjunction with
my two sisters.
It was on Dec. 23rd, 1897 (?). We were walking across some
fields to meet my brothers who were out shooting with a neigh
bour. We stopped to wait for them, and sat on a fence half way
across a field about 80 or 90 yards wide. My youngest sister
suddenly remarked that there was a man looking over the fence
at the far end of the field. I made some answer as to its
probably being one of the boys. Presently my other sister said
"There is a man there," or words to that effect, and I looked up,
and distinctly saw what looked like a man leaning over the fence.
We then said we would find out what it was, and all three
walked in a row towards the figure. When within about 20
yards, my youngest sister said, " Look at his legs ! " I remarked
to my other sister, " What is it ? I don't like it." We walked
on, after having said we would report to each other what we
saw, as we went. This is what we all three saw : a man's figure
hanging from a branch of an oak tree, his arms and legs dangling
apparently helplessly, and his head hung forward, but it was
covered with something white. We could see the railings which
ran behind the oak tree through the figure. When we got within
10 yards, my sister said, "Why, it's gone." We stopped and
looked, and there was nothing to be seen but the oak tree and
fence. It was a very bright sunny afternoon • there was a little
snow on the ground.
One thing struck us as odd, for between the sun and the oak
tree was a great black shadow, which we could not account for,
as in the ordinary course of events the shadow would be on the
opposite side of the tree to where the sun was.
This is absolutely true, and I have put it down just as I
remember it.
Mrs. Fletcher, writing on August 23rd, 1904, says that
these accounts were given quite independently of each other
and also of her second daughter's version of the same
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APHIL, 1907.
incident, which she gives herself as follows, as this daughter
was unwilling to write it :
On Dec. 23, 1897, my second daughter Rose, aged 18, told me
that whilst she and her elder sister Edith, aged 21, and her youngest
sister Eglantine, aged 12, were in the park that afternoon, they
had seen a " vision," which she described as follows. The three
girls were waiting for their brothers by a fence, and the youngest
drew the attention of the others to a man standing by the hedge
in the same field as themselves to the left—and there they all three
saw the figure of a man in brown clothes, with something white
across his face, dangling from the bough of an oak tree a few
yards nearer to them than the fence. Rose described the head
lolling forward and the arms and legs all limp, and the three girls
saw the hedge and some palings in it through the figure. They walked
towards it, and it melted away. Eglantine mentioned also a "sort
of dark thing near the figure." We have frequently been to the
same spot on 23rd Dec. at three o'clock, but seen nothing. There
is a vague legend that some one was murdered somewhere near the
place, and two fields off there are two stones with very large bases
like gate-posts below the surface of the ground, marked each with a
cross and + on one, + + on the other.
G G^
Three years ago Eglantine, who had never seen a " crystal," went
with me on 23rd Dec. to the place where she and her sisters saw
the vision. I told her to look into the crystal. She almost immedi
ately saw in it a long oak-panelled room, with two portraits hanging
on the wall of men in old-fashioned uniforms, with young faces
and "grey hair,"—no doubt powder.
Also, in 1901, my daughter Edith, looking into a crystal for the
first time, saw a series of pictures, of which I have the following
rough notes :
(1) Bright landscape; a tree.
(2) Men entirely in white fighting a duel. One man was forced
to his knees, and in this position ran the other man several times
through the body ; eventually he got up, stabbed his adversary
again, and fell back.
(3) A gateway, with two towers; lanterns waving.
(4) A small dark room, like a prison; a man in white pacing
restlessly up and down.
(5) A picture; a tree; a figure.
No. CCXXXIX.—VOL. XIII. MAY, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research,
CONTENTS.
Report of a "Poltergeist" Case, 66
Cases, 79
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDA Y, MA Y i6th, 1907, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
Experiments on the Appreciation of Time
by Somnambules "
WILL BE READ BY
T. W. MITCHELL, ESQ., M.D.
N.B.—Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907-
REPOET OF A " POLTERGEIST " CASE.
The following account of a typical " Poltergeist," which is
interesting as coming from an unusually competent observer,
is contributed by Mr. A. Warndorfer, a Member of the Society
residing at Baden, near Vienna, who writes :
July 11th, 1906.
I had occasion to hear of a " spook " case in Vienna, and to witness
some of the alleged occurrences, and I report here what I heard
from witnesses, and what I saw for myself. At the beginning of
this month I read in the Neues Wiener TagUatt an account of a spook
in a Vienna suburb, relating in a jocular way that things were
flying about in a smith's shop, that the owner of the shop was very
much put out about it, and that the communal authorities would
doubtless soon put a stop to this nonsense. I was not able to go
to the place for eight days ; when I went there on Monday, the
16th, I heard the following account:
I will, however, first describe the locality and the inhabitants.
The shop, Lerchenfelderstr. 158, is at the end of a long court in
a large house inhabited by tradespeople and workmen ; it is situated
in the "souterrain," and one goes down to it by a short open stair
and along an open area. It is the last shop on the right of the
house ; next to it is a shop where scales and weights are made ;
in the next house there is a mechanic who uses a dynamo machine.
The place I refer to is hired by a man called Job. Zimmerl, aged,
I think, 63; he works there with two apprentices, aged about 15
and 18. He has been in this place for about four years. The
workshop is very poorly furnished with old machinery, driven by
hand, and rather dark. I add sketches of the situation of the shop
and of its arrangements.
The man told me that he was very much disturbed by things
—tools, bits of iron, screws, his pipe, etc.—being thrown off the
benches and flung about ; he had a stiff hat on so as to protect his
head against the objects ; he showed me a lump on the back of
his head, caused, as he said, by a piece of iron ; one of the boys
had a red spot on his cheek bone, caused in a similar way. He
told me that he did not think his apprentices could have played
him tricks, as he had watched them, and as objects had been flying
about while they were outside, and from a direction opposite to
where they stood, and where there was only solid wall. He had
MAY, 1907. 67
Report of a "Poltergeist" Case.
1 STAII I
!
SHOP
AREA
1
EIGHBOUR'5
HOUSE
YARD
%% SMITHY s~\
55 (BELLOWS.)
52
s~\ ^y
*=£L_Jr> ANVIL
UJ
^-S
1—
1
*< •^x^-
x: <n
("7 o LJ
s
UJ _1
z GO U
QC FLY WHEEL r
(A
DOOR ^
l- r^^ ^^i QC
0
WINDOW
i i
^yy//^^/ ^
* Mr. Warndorfer's usual place of observation.
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
been to the police, and some officials had been there to examine
the walls, etc., but had found nothing unusual, the walls, etc.,
being solid and in good order. While I was there an electrician
came to examine the place with instruments of precision, as it
was thought that the neighbour's dynamo might have caused cur
rents ; he found nothing at all, i.e. there were no electric or magnetic
reactions whatever. I was there for about an hour, but saw nothing
myself, though earlier in the day a wooden model was said to have
flown across the room from its place high up on a wall; the hook
from which it had hung was there still, and the string on which it
had hung was intact.
I went there after a few days again. I found that all the tools
had been removed from the shop into wooden boxes and put out
side, the man being afraid to work while they were lying loose ;
he told me that a rather heavy hammer had whirled close past
his head several times ; he was much scared, and lamented the loss
of his time and the loss of customers, as some would not come
near, being frightened, while others kept away " from an old fool
who talks such nonsense."
Since my last visit some spiritists had " sat " with the boys
at night, and some phenomena seem to have occurred. I have not
had occasion to look them up yet, but mean to do so ; some other
spiritist had brought " writing mediums," the result being uninterest
ing. The phenomena had increased, according to Z. and the boys'
accounts. They had seen a pipe fly from one side of the shop to
the other and back, and settle on the anvil in the middle of
the room ; once the pipe was taken from Z.'s mouth and fluttered
on to the turning lathe ; once it got up by itself from a lying
into a standing position on its clay head (it consists, as is customary
here, of a long wooden stem with a clay head), and then made a
vicious "peck" and broke its head. Z. had by this time given up
smoking in the shop on account of so many pipes having been
broken. His notebook was said to have flown out of the window
" like a butterfly," and the hat of one of the boys had been
removed from his head repeatedly. I remained there for about a
•couple of hours, but saw nothing; I spoke to several neighbours,
who affirmed they had seen or heard things fly about.
I came again next day—Saturday last—determined to remain for the
whole day. When I arrived, about 8.30, Z. was just returning
from some newspaper offices, where he had been to fetch reporters ;
he also brought a policeman with him. He was quite beside him
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 69
self, two petroleum lamps having been smashed during the night,
and by then seven window panes broken ; moreover, all his tools were
mixed up ; he dared not go into his shop, and raved about the
authorities not being able to stop such impossible goings on, and
not protecting him, letting him be ruined, etc., etc. Several news
paper reporters had arrived by this time, and we watched all the
morning without seeing anything, till 12, when the shop was closed.
(A)1 On the evening before an open round tin box containing
plaster of Paris was said to have been thrown on to the ceiling
and then trailed on the floor ; I noticed the marking on the blackened
ceiling as peculiar; it was in shape like a comet, with a nucleus
and a tail ; all the particles were quite round, and I cannot conceive
of any means to produce such a marking without showing some
trace of "wiping along." If it had been blown on or put on
with a brush, or thrown on in the ordinary way, some of the plaster
particles would undoubtedly have scraped along and formed lines
or smears. When I returned in the afternoon on the shop being
opened, I saw at once that the white mark was altered ; part of
the " tail " looked as if a soft brush had been passed over it ; I
think that the mark altered its shape during the afternoon as well,
but I am not quite sure about it.
I arrived there at 1.10 and found the boys just opening the
place and carrying the boxes with tools outside ; shortly afterwards
Z. arrived and started some job that he had to finish at once.
During the next three hours I saw, heard, or felt exactly 30 objects
being thrown about. With about 12 or 15 objects I am perfectly
certain that none of the persons present can have thrown them.
(B) One of them was thrown when I was momentarily alone in the
shop, coming apparently from the smithy. I never saw any of the
objects actually fly ; with most of them I heard only the fall, with
some I heard a slight noise, indicating the direction from which
they came. Some dropped quite close to me, three struck me on
the head.
(C) The first phenomenon that I witnessed there was a piece of iron
about the size of a walnut touching me quite lightly on the top of
my felt hat, and from there dropping on the floor; I didn't know
at first what it was that touched me. The middle (top) part of my
hat was folded in, almost touching the top of my head. The piece of
1 We designate the various incidents by letters, to facilitate reference to the
further descriptions of the same given in Mr. Warndorfer's later reports
below.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
iron must have jumped out again, as otherwise it could not have fallen
on to the ground.
(D and E) Later on I was struck by a small blade of steel on
the back of the neck, and the third time by a fragment of a clay
pipe ; this and some other small pieces which flew about I had
deposited on a wooden shelf on the wall, where they were well
out of the reach of the boys' ordinary manipulation. There were
several people present, watching through the window and standing
in the doorway, but I do not think any of them can be connected
with the phenomenon. The more people came, the scarcer they
grew.
(F) The last happened at about 4.30. The smith had gone out
of the shop soon after the " spook " began, lamenting his fate, and
finding evidently some consolation in the curiosity of the neighbours
to hear the latest developments. I stood most of the time in the
middle of the shop, keeping my eyes on the boys, my back turned
to the smithy. About 4.30 I watched the boys drilling a hole in
a piece of iron, their hands and evidently their attention being
fully occupied. Suddenly the younger of the two screamed out
and was nearly bent double with pain and fright, while an iron
measuring instrument flew on to the floor; it had struck him pretty
sharply on the left temple, causing a swelling and a drop of blood.
I had noticed the instrument a little time before lying on the work
bench, about a yard behind the boy.
The objects that flew about in my presence were mostly light,
their weight never exceeding about \ Ib. I have read up most of
the cases mentioned in your Proceedings, and do not think I was
in any way careless in my observations. I shall get back to Vienna
to-morrow and visit the place again on Monday, and let you know
if anything further has occurred.
A. WARNDORFER.
P.S.—I forgot to mention that it was found out by one of the
reporters that at the beginning of this year a man who lived in a
small room just above the shop with his parents, complained about
his furniture being moved about, an ink-bottle being spilt (the
same happened in the shop, Z.'s hat and shirt being covered with
ink), the door of his cupboard being thrown open suddenly, etc.
His parents thought he had gone mad, and did not attach any
importance to his words. He left the room about March, and
from that time up to the beginning of this month nothing has
happened.
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 71
Various circumstances having prevented Mr. Warndorfer from
sending us further details at the time, we enquired again about
the case early this year, and received the following report.
We have added reference letters in brackets, corresponding with
the reference letters by which the same incidents are desig
nated in the first account.
March 26th, 1907.
I wrote to you at the beginning of last summer about some
"spook" phenomena which I had occasion to observe. I herewith
send you sketches [not reproduced here] and a more detailed account
(as asked for by you), and the account of the rather—or apparently—
ignominious end of the affair. The spook, i.e. the flying about of
•objects, their disappearance, etc., began about the middle of May,
1906. The notes I took, containing the different dates, were un
fortunately lost through my having moved into another house ;
the sketches I enclose here were, however, taken at the time, one
at the place itself. All the cases were observed in daylight, and I
did my best to keep the boys within eyesight. I think myself
justified in stating that in the five cases of which I am going to
speak first, the chances of malobservation were very small indeed.
It is true I never had the chance of observing similar phenomena
before, but in this case I certainly had plenty of opportunity for
observation. I was at the smith's shop ten or twelve times, some
times a whole day. The number of phenomena personally observed
was considerable, on the " best " day 23 objects flying about in less
than half an hour. Altogether, I think I saw between 60 and 70
objects flying, or rather arriving.
(G) On one occasion I saw a small picture, about 6x4 ins.,
fluttering through the air, after having noticed it on its usual place
•on the wall [over the bench near the door] a few minutes before. I
am specially certain of this circumstance, as the picture, which was
•a photograph of a church, a well-known place of pilgrimage, with a
representation of the Virgin Mary above, had often been mentioned by
women coming to the shop as being naturally exempt from all spook
on account of its "holy character" and its having been sprinkled with
"holy water." On my arrival on that day all the loose objects along
the wall and on the long bench to the right of the door had either
flown away or the heavy ones had been removed from fear of the
three occupants being hurt again by their flight, and it was pointed
out to me that the sacred picture alone had never moved. I leant
casually on the bench, with my back to the wall, about a yard
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
from the picture, and, as stated above, saw after a few minutes the
picture fluttering to the middle of the shop in an almost parabolic
direction. It did not fall, but behaved rather like a sheet of
paper; it did not break on the floor. As a rule the objects,
however, seemed to be thrown with considerable violence. Besides
this I personally noticed only one other case, in which the velocity
of flight was markedly less than the normal.
The phenomena went on for about two months. Zimmerl was by
then almost beside himself with fear and annoyance. He was
unable to execute his orders, and at times did not dare to enter
his shop, having been hurt rather severely several times. One of
his eyes was inflamed and swollen by having had a quantity of
mortar thrown into it, and his cheek had been wounded by a piece
of iron. He had furthermore several bumps on his head. Naturally
a great many people, journalists, electricians, town clerks, policemen
(but no scientific investigator), came to visit the shop; the daily
papers cut their jokes about it, etc.
About the middle of August I had to leave Vienna for a few
days, and did not see any local papers. On my return I went to
see Z. at once. I was met with ironical smiles and told that the
whole swindle had been cleared up, that the apprentices had been
caught red-handed by a detective, and that since the boys had been
sent away there was nothing more to be heard. I was shown a
paper in which the story was told in several pages (I being laughed
at at some length), the police praised, and the boys accused of gross
misdemeanour. In the account of the boys' arrest there was one
thing that really interested me ; it was said that the boys had
owned up to having been the cause of the whole disturbance. On
the next day, a Sunday, one of the boys came to see me and
entreated me to help him. He said he had never done anything
wrong, and had not owned to anything except that he had tried
with his comrade, after the working hours, and only once, whether
they could produce effects similar to those that had been observed.
I could of course only tell him that I could not prove that he had
not thrown anything, but that I rather suspected that he might be
in for some of the pranks ; that I should be ready, however, to
appear as witness on his behalf, and state what I had seen.
The next day I went to the police court, where I was met with
all the gentle affability which, I suppose, is considered due to a
harmless lunatic not dressed in rags. I managed to see the inspector
who had charge of the affair. He told me that a detective had for
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 73
some time been at the shop, and on the day of the capture had
noticed that one of the boys, the one who had always been con
sidered the medium, put his right hand frequently into his coat
pocket ; and, watching him, saw that at the moment the boy took
a handkerchief out of his pocket an iron ring flew against the wall.
Thereon the boy was arrested. The inspector confirmed the
statement that the boys had denied all guilt.
I was not asked as witness when the ease was heard. The judge,
very rightly I think, would not have any discussion on occult matters
in court, fined the boy 3 kronen (about 2s. 6d.), and dismissed the
whole case in less than ten minutes. I have not heard anything of
a recurrence of spooks at the shop, though Z. had promised to send
me word if anything happened. The last time I saw him I asked
him whether he had not told me of phenomena he had himself
observed, of which the apprentices could not have been the cause.
This he admitted unwillingly, but said that as everything was all
right since the boys had left, they must have been the cause.
This ending of the spook naturally did not prove anything to me,
and I will give you the cases that seem to me important as
evidence among the phenomena personally observed, including my
observations of carious traces left by other phenomena, and some of
the occurrences told to me by witnesses.
(F) I stood near the anvil watching the boys working at a boring
machine [on the bench]. One turned the ratchet with one hand,
turning the screw lever with the other ; the second boy (C) held
the iron to be bored and oiled the point of the borer. Suddenly
he cried out, letting go the piece and holding his head. At the
same time I saw a big iron compasses ricochetting, as it were, off the
boy's head and falling to the ground. The boy was hit on his
right temple, where a small bump was visible and some blood came.
I had noticed the compasses lying on the bench about half an hour
before. I am perfectly certain that the hands of the boys were
busy at the time with their work.
(H) I was hit by some object on the right side of my head. I
heard it fall on the floor, but we could not recover it.
(B) I was alone in the shop, the others doing some work outside.
I heard a slight noise in the smithy, and a small piece of steel
flew, seemingly out of the smithy, on to the ground, where I saw
it drop.
(C) I stood [in the middle of the room] talking to Z. and the
boys, who were having a rest. I felt a very slight touch on my hat,.
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
then the brim of my hat was touched, and a piece of iron dropped
at my feet. I wore a light soft felt hat, the top of which was
folded in so that the inside of it almost touched my head. It was
there that I felt the touch, which was so slight as to resemble the
lightest touch from a finger tip. The curious part was the heaviness
of the iron piece, which must have jumped out of the cup which
my hat formed, dropped on to the brim, and from there fallen
to the floor without touching my body. I kept the piece of iron,
and send it you. I cannot imagine its having been thrown [on to
my head] without my feeling some pain. I was the tallest of those
present; there was nobody behind me.
(I) Z. and the boys (a third had been engaged) were sitting on
the bench having their tea, or rather its Viennese equivalent. Z.
sat with his back to me, smoking a pipe and grumbling. I sat on
a chair smoking. I felt a pain as from a sting on the left part of
the chest. Putting my hand there instinctively, under my jacket, I
found there a small bit of steel (which I send also), which must
have flown with such rapidity that it caused the sensation of a
sting. The boys sat on my left, Z. with his back to me. The steel
was under my left coat side, about 4-5 ins. from its opening. There
was nobody else in the shop.
(J) I sat on the bench, next to me was a neighbour, discussing
the phenomena with me in a most sceptical way ; the boys and Z.
were standing in the door and outside talking with some visitors;
work had been stopped, as too many things had been flying about
(before my arrival), and tools had kept disappearing. I was playing
with a small copper plate. On my right side was the bellows,
which filled the space between the bench on which I sat and the
smithy, so that nobody could stand or hide there ; besides, all the
other people were outside or in the doorway, as mentioned. The
distance between myself and the wall may have been about a yard
and a quarter. I was hit on the back of my right hand by an
iron screw with great violence, and felt a very intense pain ; some
blood came at once, and a swelling was raised, which lasted for
several months. The shock of the iron on the bone on the back of
my hand caused quite a sharp cracking noise. My sceptical friend
declared he had had enough, and left abruptly. I remember clearly
that the back of my hand was turned towards the wall.
(K) The small copper plate I held had been brought by me to
repeat some hypnotic experiment with the mediumistic boy C. Before
•having been hit I had left it lying about on several places. On being
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 75
hit it struck me that many of the flying objects had dropped near
it, and that on its being held in my hand my hand had been
struck. I then laid it on the smithy, and in a very short time
an iron piece flew with a thundering noise against the corrugated
iron roof of the smithy. I gave it to one of the boys to hold, and
something dropped quite near him.
(L) On this becoming known, a neighbour came in and asked to
have a try. He stood opposite me, leaning against the turning lathe,
with his back against the wall ; nobody was behind him, nor could
any one have been. He was struck in the back by a handle off the
lathe. All these phenomena happened within about ten minutes.
It is very unfortunate that I could not continue these curious
experiments on that day, as it was closing time, and I had to leave
shortly afterwards.
I will now relate two cases, which had happened in my absence,
but which left abnormal traces. The first I spoke of in my first
letter. (A) A canister, containing some plaster of Paris, was
reported to have jumped on to the ceiling; if I remember right,
they said that it had happened during the night. The mark left
by the clay on the black ceiling had the shape of a comet, a dense
round head and a widening tail. The mark was very close to the
door, and looked as if it could only have been caused by the
canister being thrown from the outside at a very obtuse angle.
The canister usually stood almost perpendicularly below, though a
little to the right of the mark. The mark had furthermore the
particularity of being formed of perfectly round small spots; I think
if it had been thrown up, the clay spreading along the ceiling would
have made strokes instead of spots. I mentioned this matter to
some journalists who were present; but they evidently wanted only
" to expose," and took no interest in what might prove to be a
thing worth investigating. On returning after the dinner-hour I was
present when Z. and the boys left, though I did not watch them,
and also when the shop was re-opened. I noticed at once that the
white mark had changed its shape [being now composed of a number
of short strokes or lines1]. I could not ascertain whether any
currents of air might have blown the clay particles along, thus
causing the altered formation.
(M) In the course of the first month almost all the window panes
and also the panes of the inner door (the outer one was of plain
wood) had been smashed, as Z. said, mostly at night ; above the
1 The sketches illustrating this are not reproduced here.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
double door there was a double glass window. After a noisy night
I was shown that two of these double panes had holes in them
that had not been noticed before. These two holes were quite near
the top and both exactly at the same height. If any one had tried
to produce this effect by throwing with his hand, he would have had
to stand on the bench in an uncomfortable position, and it seems
doubtful whether he could have employed the force necessary to
knock two round holes out of the two panes in a horizontal line.
Z. and his apprentices told me of innumerable phenomena which
had happened during the two months, and many incidents were con
firmed by witnesses. I did not know any one of them personally
before ; they were for the most part workmen or ignorant persons,
their tales varying frequently, so that, I fear, no serious importance
can be attached to them. I will, however, mention some of the
more remarkable occurrences. Water was poured over Z. and the
boys while they were working, drenching them thoroughly ; the
water did not come from the pail which usually stands near
the smithy, as it was full after the drenching, and the tap is a.
considerable distance from the shop. Ink was poured over Z. and
one of the boys, spoiling their hats and shirts; the ink came from
a bottle which was kept in the shop ; I saw the spotted hat. Z.'s
clay pipe disappeared frequently ; often it flew about, from the
lathe on to the anvil or the work-bench, sometimes breaking,
sometimes performing several flights ; once it alighted on the lathe
without breaking, then placed itself upright, and by making a little
jump broke its head. Z.'s notebook was reported to have fluttered
like a butterfly across the shop and out of the window ; and the
same happened with a bundle of notes and bills. The small bits
of coke which were kept in a wooden box near the smithy for the
fire kept flying about, often flying after people leaving the shop-
(this I saw myself several times). This seems to have happened so
often that Z. felt the loss severely ; he covered the box with a
wooden lid; as this did not suffice, he put a very heavy piece of
iron on it (I should think it weighed about 50 Ibs.) and immediately
saw this rise about a foot and then drop beside the box. Towards-
the end of the period mortar flew about from a spot about a yard
square, until the wall became quite bare. It was noticeable that, I
should think, about three-fourths of all the phenomena seemed to
come from the direction of this wall, the one to the right of the
door (coming in).
A neighbour reported that he was often disturbed at night by
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 77
the noise of objects being thrown about; the shop was not in
habited at night, but the neighbour slept in his shop, next door,
near the wall of Z.'s shop. The town architects came to examine
the place, but found no explanation ; an electrician, who had
written to the paper that the phenomena were due to " wandering
electric currents," found nothing, and as he was told that wooden
objects, models, clay, etc., flew about, gave up his experiments. An
official of the Home Office held a seance with a journalist and the
two boys. I was told that after several hours objects were heard
to fly about twice, on the medium wishing aloud that something
should fly. I tried a seance with Z., the boys, and some friends of
mine, each of the latter holding a hand of Z. and the boys and
forming a circle; but nothing whatever occurred, either with candle
light, or with red light, or in the dark. Then I hypnotised the
medium, who "went off" very quickly, but nothing happened. The
boy remained for weeks very amenable to all suggestions coming from
me without having to be hypnotised again. After about a month
from the beginning I advised Z. to send the boy away for a couple
of weeks; he actually gave him two weeks' leave. During this
time another boy was taken, and very few disturbances occurred ;
but the [first] boy was expected back on a Monday and the
Saturday preceding seems to have been one of the severest days.
After both boys had been finally dismissed the whole thing stopped
as if—to use the well-known simile—the Morse apparatus had been
taken off a line.
In reply to a number of further questions about the
different incidents Mr. Warndorfer wrote again :
ELISABETSTRASSE, 23, BADEN BEI WIEN, April 7th, 1907.
(G) I did not stand just in front of the small picture, but about
a yard and a half to the right and in front of it; I did not see it
leave its place, but saw it [when it was] about two yards from
where it alighted on the floor. There was nobody near the place
where I had seen it a very short time before, and there was nobody
in the part of the shop through which it fluttered. The picture
was oval and either photographed on to glass or glued on to glass;
there was only a thin brass frame round it. I think it would
be very difficult, though not impossible, to throw or drop such a
picture without its breaking.
(F) It would have been quite possible to take the compasses
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
away and hide them without my noticing it. I had on my arrival
examined the objects lying on the bench, but had not watched
them. I am certain, however, that the two boys' four hands were
busy at the time ; I remember wondering at the time how anybody
could earn a living by employing two boys slowly to drill a small
hole, while competitors did this by machinery, etc. I think it
improbable that I should have overlooked a sudden and rather
vehement movement on the part of one of the boys [i.e. on the
supposition that one of them had thrown it at the other].
(C) In the case where the heavy iron piece dropped on to my
hat, I stood in the [middle of the room] with nobody behind me.
I do not know where the piece came from, but think that I had
seen it cut off a hot bar of iron some time before; if it was
the same, it would have had to rise from the floor.
(B) It is possible [as you suggest] that somebody might have
thrown the nut (part of a screw) through the window without my
noticing it, but I think it unlikely that it would have rebounded ;
the lower, walled part of the smithy is pretty well covered by the
anvil, and above this is the level part and then the iron roof.
The latter projects, as you rightly suppose, into the shop; it was
struck very often, sometimes inside, sometimes on the outside,
always of course making a very loud and startling noise; when
struck on the inside, the striking object usually fell into the fire
place. I never saw this when there was a fire.
(J) I don't think that the object that hit the back of my hand
cuiild have rebounded [from the bellows] in fact, I feel sure it could
not. To my right was the big bellows of the smithy ; anything
hitting it first would have made a loud noise. I was struck with
great force, and the object, a big nut, weighed, if I remember
right, more than the piece I sent you. I think it impossible that
the shock could have been produced by the nut rebounding from
the leather bellows. I consider this case and the one where I was
struck under my jacket as the most difficult of explanation.
(K) I do not remember whether the piece of iron struck against
the inside or outside of the roof; this roof slants upward to close
to the ceiling. I will try and make you a sketch of the shop from
memory, perhaps it will give you a clearer idea.
(L) The man was struck by a small handle, forming part of the
lathe; the idea at the time was that it had come off the lathe, but
the handle was often lying about on the lathe. This handle flew
about very often and was said sometimes to have mislaid itself.
MAY, 1907. Report of a " Poltergeist " Case. 79
The two pieces of iron sent by Mr. Warndorfer are those
referred to in the case of the incidents labelled (C) and (I).
The first weighs between 2| and 3 oz.; the second rather less
than I? oz. The effect of dropping the heavier piece on to the
top of one's hat from a height of only an inch or two above
is to give the head a very perceptible blow. It is perhaps not
impossible, however, that the piece of iron was deliberately
placed on Mr. Warndorfer's hat a few moments earlier with
out his noticing it, and that the first touch he felt was caused
by some movement of his head that displaced it, while a
further movement caused it to drop on the floor.
CASES.
L. 1157. Impression.
The following is a case in which a sensation of pain was
produced, apparently by telepathy. A few experiments in
the telepathic transference of pains to hypnotised subjects
were recorded in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. I. p. 225, and
Vol. II. p. 250; and some in which the subjects were in a
normal condition are quoted in Phantasms of the Living,
Vol. I. p. 57, while a spontaneous case of such a transference
is given in the same volume, p. 188. This one was sent to
us by Sir Oliver Lodge, who remarks that it comes " from
a trained experimenter and observer, my assistant, Mr. E. E.
Robinson."
FERNLEA, WILLOW AVENUE, EDGBASTON, Dec. 16, 1905.
On Sunday morning, December 10, 1905, I was in bed thinking
of nothing in particular. Mrs. R. was dressing. I experienced an
aching pain in my thumb, the kind of pain that would be produced
by a hole (made by something running in).
The pain was so distinct, and the sensation of having a hole in
the thumb so real, that I held up my thumb to look for it. I
found there was no such hole, and the moment I realized this the
pain went. Almost at the same instant Mrs. R. said to me : " I
have a great difficulty in dressing, my thumb is so painful."
Two days before she had hurt her thumb by running a nail into
it. She mentioned the fact to me at the time; as she did not
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1907.
mention it again, the circumstance had been completely forgotten
by me. I certainly had no idea of it at the time mentioned above.
E. E. ROBINSON.
L. 1158. Dream.
This case of a telepathic or clairvoyant dream comes from
an Associate of the Society, Colonel Coghill, who writes :
COSHEEN, CASTLE TOWNSHEND, Co. CORK, April 10th [1906].
The enclosed case of dream premonition may interest the S.P.R.
in adding one more instance for the accumulation of cases for
investigation. My nephew, Mr. Penrose, having mentioned the case
to me, I wrote for a little more information, which, having been
added in the form of a statement from the groom, I now beg to
forward.
KENDAL COGHILL.
The narrative written by Mr. Penrose and signed by the
groom is as follows :
LISMORE, IRELAND.
On April 2nd [1906], between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m., Eobert Glynn,
coachman to J. Penrose, Esq., woke suddenly, having dreamed that
a mare under his charge had foaled and that he was badly wanted.
He immediately dressed and went to the stable, which was about
20 or 30 yards distant from his house, and found the mare had
just foaled. The foal was extremely weak, and would undoubtedly
have died if he had not come when he did to give it assistance.
The mare was 17 days before her time being due to foal—on
April 19th. He had not looked at her for two or three days
previously, and there were no symptoms of prematurity nor was he
in any anxiety about the foaling. She had had several foals before
and had never miscarried before. He did not say anything to his
wife before going out to the mare, as she was asleep. He had
been in the habit for some days back of getting up early to look
at a cow that was expected to calve ; but on this occasion the
dream was so vivid he went straight to the mare's stable as soon
as he was dressed. He heard no sounds of distress from the mare.
The above is exactly according to the facts stated.
(Signed) EGBERT GLYNN.
No. CCXL.—VOL. XIII. JUNE, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 82
Meeting of the Council, 82
General Meeting, 83
Vision during a State of Coma, 87
Dream Romances, - 90
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDAY, JULY t,tk, 1907, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" A Series of Automatic Writings "
WILL BE READ BY
MISS ALICE JOHNSON.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, JUNE, 1907.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ANDERSON, P. J., The University Librarian, King's College, Aberdeen.
DAKIN, W. R., M.D., F.R.C.P., 8 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
FORREST, MRS. L. W. R., 29 Great St. Helens, London, E.C.
FRY, Miss AGNES, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
HEATH, MRS. HENRY, 23 Sloane Gardens, London, S.W.
LEE, H. HIVES, 16 Wynnstay Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
MORLEY, Miss EVELYN A., 7 Courtfield Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W.
Odio, Louis E., 2055 Rodriguez Pena, Buenos Aires, South America.
PENNY, W. R., Office of the Chief Railway Storekeeper, Cape Town.
STRACHAN, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
SWAYNE, MRS. NOAH HAYNES, 2nd, Buck Lane, Haverford, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Thomas-Moore, Miss Constance, 23 Warwick Chambers, Kensing
ton, London, W.
TURNER, Miss N. L., 11 Grand Ch§ne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 84th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, May 16th, 1907, at
3.30 p.m.; the chair was occupied first by Mrs. Sidgwick,
and later by the President, the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N.
Bennett, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. S. C. Scott, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. Verrall, and Miss Alice Johnson, Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed
as correct.
Two new Members and eleven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for March and April, 1907, were
presented and read.
JUNE, 1907. Meeting of the Council. 83
The following resolution was proposed by Mr. S. C. Scott,
seconded by Mr. H. A. Smith, and adopted by the Council :
WHEREAS by the fifth Clause of the Articles of Association
of the Society it was declared that for the purposes
of registration the number of Members of the Society
did not exceed One thousand,
IT is HEREBY RESOLVED that the nominal number of Members
of the Society be increased by the addition thereto of
Five hundred Members beyond the present number
of One thousand and that the maximum number of
Members of the Society be One thousand five hundred
unless and until the same is further increased.
The names of Miss E. M. Eeed, M.D. (U.S.A.), and Miss
L. Edmunds were added to the list of Honorary Associates.
A letter was read from Mr. Sydney Olivier, C.M.G., resigning
his seat on the Council in consequence of his appointment as
Governor of Jamaica.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 130th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday,
May 16th, 1907, at 4.30 p.m.; the President, the Eight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, in the chair.
DR. T. W. MITCHELL read a paper on " Experiments on
the Appreciation of Time by Somnambules."
After expressing his adherence to the view that sub
conscious cerebral activity in hypnotic somnambules is not
merely physiological but has a psychical concomitant co
existing with the supraliminal consciousness known to us by
introspection during waking life, Dr. Mitchell referred to the
Time-experiments recorded by Gurney, Delboeuf, and Dr.
Milne Bramwell. These were devised mainly in order to
eliminate the giving of a fixed date when making suggestions
of post-hypnotic acts to be fulfilled after a considerable
interval. It was pointed out that naming the suggested time-
interval as so many days, hours, or minutes, does not ensure
any continuous time watching, since in all such experiments
the subject may make a subconscious calculation so as to
arrive at the terminal time and then fix it in his mind.
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1907.
When this calculation has been made, the secondary con
sciousness is as surely in possession of a fixed date for the
fulfilment of the post-hypnotic act as if it had been mentioned
when the suggestion was made.
The dependence on such calculations was illustrated by
experiments carried out on the lines laid down by Gurney,
Delboeuf and Dr. Bramwell, and especially by some experi
ments in which neither the terminal time nor the " starting
time " was told to the subject.
Some experiments were detailed in which an attempt was
made to eliminate all possibility of calculating beforehand.
The method adopted was to get the subject to tell the
number of hours or minutes that elapsed between the time
at which the suggestion was made and the giving of a pre
arranged signal—the time at which the signal was to be
given being left undetermined when making the suggestion.
In experiments of this kind there seems to be a continuous
time-watching, supplemented by counting or additions at regular
or irregular intervals.
In the more theoretical part of his paper Dr. Mitchell
dealt mainly with the three principal points which Dr.
Bramwell thought demanded explanation in connection with
his own experiments. These may be stated briefly as follows ;
(1) The want of hypnotic memory of the making of the
calculations.
(2) The calculations being beyond the powers of the subject
in the waking or in the hypnotic state.
(3) The difference in the nature of the time-appreciation
required when the suggestions were made in minutes
instead of in days.
(1) It was pointed out that although the memory in hypnosis
of the events of previous hypnoses is, as a rule, very complete,
we have no evidence that rehypnotization will enable us to
revive in the subject's mind all subliminal mentation that may
have occurred during waking life ; and that the absence of
memory in hypnosis of the actual making of the calculations is
no proof that these were not made at the hypnotic level of
consciousness.
(2) Doubt was expressed in regard to the calculations being
beyond the ordinary powers of the subject. The points to
JUNE, 1907- Oeneral Meeting. 85
be taken into consideration are the training of the hypnotic
stratum in the course of the experiments, and the accumula
tion by it of data useful in the making of such calculations ;
the length of time at the disposal of the secondary conscious
ness for solving the problems ; the increased concentration of
attention possible at the hypnotic level ; and some probable
facilitation of mental arithmetic at this level which is not
possible in supraliminal thought.
(3) It was held that, unless the subject is kept away from all
ordinary means of knowing the time, there is little difference
in the nature of the sub-conscious time-watching involved,
whether the act is to be performed on "the 39th day from
this," or " at 3.45 p.m. a fortnight later." The accurate
fulfilment of acts at a particular moment, previously determined
by sub-conscious calculation, is related to true time-appreciation
only when the subject has been for some time previously kept
away from all external indications of the passage of time.
Some experiments were detailed concerning true time-
appreciation of periods varying from one minute to half an
hour. It was suggested that the results obtained pointed to
some form of sub-conscious counting, in which a correlation
was established between our artificial divisions of time and
certain rhythmic organic processes which are liable to only
slight variations of regularity. It was admitted, however, that
no hypothesis that had up to the present been put forward
was sufficient to explain all the facts.
DR. LLOYD TUCKEY remarked that he was very glad to hear
reference made again to the hypnotic experiments of Mr.
Gurney, which he regarded as among the most careful and
trustworthy that had ever been performed. He himself was
inclined to think that the appreciation of time by somnambules
was a kind of instinctive faculty, akin to the homing instinct
of animals. The fact that a similar faculty is sometimes
found in feeble-minded or almost imbecile persons shows that
it is no sign of special intelligence. He thought it very probable
that, as Dr. Mitchell had suggested, estimation of time might
in some cases be done by counting the number of respira
tions or heart-beats. Any such process would be facilitated
by hypnotism, by which all the subliminal faculties tend to
be exalted.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1907.
MR. CONSTABLE enquired whether during the short time
experiments, Dr. Mitchell had kept his mind fixed on the
time, or looked at his watch, so as to know when the fulfil
ment was due ; or was any one present who did this. If
so, the subject might perhaps have learued telepathically when
to fulfil the suggestion.
MR. CALDERON suggested that the somnambule's appreciation
of time might be analogous to that of the musician, and asked
whether experiments, such as altering clocks, had been tried to
see whether the somnambule could be misled.
MK. WARD asked whether Dr. Mitchell had found any
limit as to the number of suggestions that could be carried
out during a certain period of time. If more than a certain
number were given during the same period, did the subject
become confused and make mistakes ?
DR. MITCHELL, in reply to these questions, said that in
testing for accuracy in the estimation of short time-intervals
he, in most of the experiments, looked at his watch when
making the suggestion, but did not look at it again until the
suggested act had been performed. He had found nothing
to lead him to -suppose that thought-transference had anything
to do with the accuracy of the results. The possibility of
misleading the subject by altering the clocks which he most
frequently sees is difficult to determine, because of the objec
tion to disorganising other people's households for the sake
of the experiments. In connection with the appreciation of
short time intervals, he had not found that altering the clocks
had made any difference in the results. He thought that
the limit to the number of experiments involving calculation
which could run concurrently without producing confusion
had been reached with his subject, as on one occasion the
act was performed at the wrong time, although the correct
time for its fulfilment had been previously determined by the
subject. She attributed her mistake to the fact that she had
had so many suggestions to fulfil that she had become
confused.
THE PRESIDENT said he thought the thanks of the Society
were due to Dr. Mitchell for the valuable and suggestive
paper just read. He believed that by following such lines
real advance would be made in the study and elucidation of
JUNE, 1907. General Meeting. 87
the complex nature of human personality. What had specially
interested him in the description of the experiments was the
indication they afforded not only of the existence of one
subliminal region of consciousness—such as was now generally
recognised—'mt that within this region a number of more
or less separate strata of consciousness or psychic centres
were contained.
VISION CUBING A STATE OF COMA.
THIS case has a resemblance to the vision of Dr. Wiltse, in
Proceedings, Vol. VIII. p. 180 (quoted in Human Personality,
Vol. II. p. 315), and is still more interesting in that, if the
statements given are to be implicitly trusted, the patient had
during his trance condition telepathic impressions of a marked
kind which he afterwards carefully verified. The remoteness
of the events makes it impossible to obtain any corroboration,
and therefore prevents the case from attaining the evidential
standard which we are accustomed to require. But the record
appears to have been made with so much care and scrupulosity
that it seems worth quoting, and it is indeed, from the
psychological point of view alone, of considerable interest.
For the account we are indebted to Mr. J. W. Graham,
of Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester, who obtained from
America the book containing it—a very rare one—and has
taken the trouble to copy the narrative verbatim from it.
The book is entitled : " A Short Compilation of the extra
ordinary Life and Writings of Thomas Say, in which is
faithfully copied, from the original manuscript, ' the Uncommon
Vision' which he had when a young man. By his son.
Phila., 1796."
The above book [says Mr. Graham] tells us that Thomas Say was
born in Philadelphia, 16. ix. 1709 (old style). His grandfather and
his mother came from England with Wm. Penn ; but he was brought
up an Anglican and joined Friends by convincetnent against the
wish of his relations. He was apprentice to his uncle, Wm.
Robinson, a saddler, and was " about the age of sixteen or
seventeen " when he had a bad attack of pleurisy. He was at
the time in great spiritual distress, doubting the existence of God
and of immortality, and of the soul, and yet half afraid of hell if
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1907.
his illness proved fatal. This spiritual unrest had been the great
trouble of his life before his illness. I now quote : (copying from
the rare book before me, p. 66)
" On the ninth day, between the hours of 4 and 5, I fell into
a trance, and so continued till about the hour of three or four the
next morning. After my departure from the body (for I left the
body), my father and mother, Susannah Robinson and others who
watched me, shook my body, felt for my pulse, and tried if they
could discern any remains of life or breath in me ; but found
none. Some may be desirous to know whether I was laid out
or not; I found myself, when I opened my eyes, laid on my back
in my bed as a corpse is on a board ; and I was told after I got
better, the reason why they did not lay me on a board was,
because my mother could not, at that time, find freedom to have
it done ; then they sent for Dr. Kearsley, who attended me, to
have his opinion. When he came he felt for my pulse and found
none, nor any remains of life in me, as he told them; but as he
was going away, he returned again and said that something came
into his mind to try further ; he then desired somebody to get
him a small looking-glass, which Catharine Souder, who lived with
my father, procured ; the Doctor laid it on my mouth for a short
time, then took it off, and there appeared on the glass a little
moisture, then the Doctor said to them, If he is not dead I
believe he is so far gone that I think he will never open his eyes
again ; but I would have you let him lay while he continues
warm, and when he begins to grow cold lay him out.
"This they' told me when I returned into the body, at which
time I inquired why so many sat up with me, not knowing that they
thought me dead. Upon hearing me speak, they were all very
much surprised ; the second time I spoke they all rose out of their
chairs, and when I spoke the third time they all came to me. My
father and mother inquired how it had been with me. I answered
and said unto them, I thought I had been dead and going to
heaven ; and after I left the body, I heard as it were the voices
of men, women and children singing songs of praises unto the
Lord God and the Lamb, without intermission, which ravished my
soul and threw me into transports of joy. My soul was also
delighted with most beautiful greens which appeared to me on
every side, and such as never were seen in this world ; through
these I passed, being all clothed in white, and in my full shape
without the least diminution of parts. As I passed along towards
JUNK, 1907. Vision during a State of Coma. 89
a higher state of bliss, I cast my eyes upon the earth which I saw
plainly, and beheld three men (whom I knew) die. Two of them
were white men, one of whom entered into rest, and the other
was cast off. There appeared a beautiful transparent gate opened,
and as I and the one that entered into rest came up to it he
stepped in ; but as I was stepping in I stepped into the body.
When I recovered from my trance, I mentioned both their names,
at the same time telling how I saw them die, and which of them
entered into rest and which did not. I said to my mother, 0 that
I had made one step further; then I should not have come back
again. After I told them what I had to say, I desired them to
say no more to me, for I still heard the melodious songs of praises,
and while I heard them I felt no pain ; but when they went from
me, the pain in my side returned again; for which I was glad,
hoping every stitch would take me off and longing for my final
change. After I told them of the death of the three men, they
sent to see if it was so, and when the messenger returned he told
them they were all dead, and died in the rooms, etc., as I told
them ; upon hearing it I fell into tears and said, 0 Lord, I wish
thou hadst kept me, and sent him back that was in pain ; after
which I soon recovered from my sickness. The third was a negro
named Cuffe, belonging to the widow Kearny, whom I saw die
in the brick kitchen, and when they were laying him on a board
his head fell out of their hands, when about six inches off the
board; which I saw plainly with the other circumstances of his
being laid out, etc., for (N.B.) the walls were no hindrance to my
sight." He says he saw "the negro on his way to happiness, yet
I was not permitted to see him fully enter into rest : but just as
I thought myself about to enter into rest, I came into the body
again.
" Some time after my recovery the widow Kearny, the mistress
of the negro man, sent for me, and inquired, whether I thought
the departed spirits knew one another? I answered in the
affirmative, and told her, that I saw her negro man die, whilst I
was a corpse. She then asked me, Where did he die? I told her
in her brick kitchen, between the jamb of the chimney and the
wall, and when they took him off the bed to lay him on the board
his head slipped out of their hands ; she then said, so it did ; and
asked me if I could tell her where they laid him. I informed her
that they laid him between the back door and the street door ;
she said that she did not remember anything of that; I told her
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNB, 1907.
he laid there whilst they swept under the window, where he was
afterwards placed. She then said she remembered it was so, and
told me that she was satisfied.
" These men, upon inquiry, were found to die at the very time
I saw them ; and all the circumstances of their death were found
to be as I related them. As some may be desirous to know how,
and in what shape those dead appeared to me, I would satisfy
their desire by telling them that they appeared each in a complete
body, which I take to be the spiritual body. They were also all
clothed, the negro and the person who entered into rest in white,
and the other who was cast off, had his garment somewhat white,
but spotted."
Thos. Say, whom I have been quoting, was a man greatly honoured
through a long life, actively engaged in the philanthropies of the
Philadelphia Friends, a trusted guardian of orphan children, and
trustee under many wills. When succouring the French neutrals
who had smallpox among them, he fearlessly stuck to his duty,
which led to the loss of his daughter from the disease. After
saving money as a saddler he became a chemist and apothecary,
for he had a gift of healing and performed many cures, often
gratuitously to the poor. "There are a number of well attested
cases of wens being removed and indolent tumors dispersed in the
glands of the human body, by stroking his hands over them a few
times."
The above extracts and summary are of the nature of first-hand
evidence, being copied with the utmost conscientiousness from the
manuscript of the percipient. The whole narrative seems to show
that Thomas Say had what we ignorantly call " psychical " qualities,
and the verification of the three deaths gives it value from our
Society's point of view.
DEEAM EOMANCES.
THE following narrative suggests points of comparison with
the life history of the medium described by Professor Flournoy
in his book, Des Indes & la plantte Mars, the place of Leopold
in relation to Helene Smith being here taken by Marie-
Antoinette, who, it will be remembered, also plays a part in
the history of Helene Smith as one of her supposed pre-
incarnations. The conception of a " guide " or " control " is
very frequent in trance phenomena, but perhaps seldom
JUNE, 3907. Dream Romances. 91
develops so far as in the present case without being accom
panied by trance or some other form of automatism.
The account was sent to us by an Associate of the Society,
Mrs. Stapleton, of 46 Montagu Square, London, W. The
writer is, she tells us, a person of strongly developed artistic
sensibilities, and in particular a remarkably gifted musician.
The name was given to us in confidence, and Mrs. Stapleton,
who has known her intimately for many years, believes that
this report of her experiences is a literally accurate one. It is
of course probable that the apparently veridical features of the
visions were derived from pictures or descriptions seen or heard
and afterwards forgotten. For a discussion of the not very
uncommon sensation of previous familiarity with scenes supposed
to be visited for the first time, see Mr. Myers's article on
" Eetrocognition and Precognition " in Proceedings S.P.R, Vol.
XI. pp. 332 et seq., especially pp. 341-47.
I was born in Petersburg, of Eussian parents, though from my
father's side of mixed nationality, his mother having been French,
a Parisian. I was a nervous, highly-strung child and up to about
twelve years of age suffered from an almost continuous high
temperature.
My earliest recollections were of a strange nature : every night,
after I had been put to bed, I saw the door open and a strange
woman come in, who glided up to my bedside and sat down on
a chair, bending over to look at me. She had masses of grey
hair, done up in a fashion quite unlike to the people I was
accustomed to see, as was also her dress, of brown colour with
a flowery design, and around her neck and shoulders there was
a white fichu, the ends of which hung down in front. At first
this apparition almost threw me into convulsions of terror, which
were not lessened by any caresses bestowed upon me, and the
assurance of my mother and nurse that " there was no such woman "
as I described. I only resented such assurances, for how could I
not believe what I saw, palpable, alive, as much so as were the
people surrounding me. Everything was tried to break the spell ;
I was put into a different room, my mother sat upon the chair by
my bed trying to soothe me. It was no use ! Just as before,
night by night, I saw the figure glide into the room, and the
chair being occupied, she stood at the other side of the bed, or
at the foot end, watching me. I was not at all a hysterical child,
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1907.
but of an equable, patient disposition. I soon understood that
the people round me must have some reason either for persuading
me that what I saw was not real, or else that my nightly visitor
was a person not approved of by them, and they hoped to drive
her away by professing to ignore her. Little by little, also, I
grew accustomed to her coming; I even watched for it and grew
to like it, for my child's instinct told me that this woman was
my friend, and had some kindly purpose in watching by my bed
every night. Many an evening, when my parents were entertaining
guests, or had artistes to sing and play, which kept me awake, as
I loved music, the presence of my unknown friend comforted me.
She remained with me for hours, and sometimes put a cool, slender
hand on my head while she bent down to look into my face.
I had full leisure to note every detail of her face, which seemed
to me very beautiful ; her eyes, especially, struck me ; they were
of a deep blue, and brilliant like stars, though at times the lids
looked very heavy, as though she had been crying. She never
spoke to me, nor I to her, and this seemed natural to me ; I felt
that we understood one another.
As my people appeared to me so unsympathetic about her, I
finished by never mentioning her again, and tried not to betray
even by a movement when she entered the room. But this only
helped to strengthen the secret bond there was between us—or so it
appeared to me. When I was about six years old an incident took
place which threw me into a great agitation. My mother went
to a fancy dress ball, and I entered her room just as she was
dressed. I rushed forward with a shout of joy on seeing her : it
was the dress of my silent friend ! I may mention here that she
did not always appear in the same dress, but sometimes in a very
beautiful blue or white one with gold and silver worked all over
it. My mother wore the dress of the Louis XVI. period. She seemed
surprised at my appearing to recognize this dress, which certainly I
could never have seen before ; but being very anxious not to
encourage what she termed my nervous fancy, she tried to make
light of it, and not to refer to it again afterwards.
Thus, this apparition visited me daily till I was nearly ten years
old. Sometimes she also came by day and watched me playing.
There was another curious fact of my early childhood : I had a
great fancy for drawing, and being a very reticent, silent child,
used to amuse myself for hours by inventing stories and illustrating
them as I went along. The most natural thing for a child to do
1907. Dream Romances. 93
is, I suppose, to reproduce what she sees around her. But all
my figures wore knee breeches, long coats, buckled shoes, and
wore their hair gathered at the back with a ribbon ; and the ladies
had enormous mountains of hair upon their heads, and wore dresses
of the Louis XVI. period. Yet I had never seen any pictures of
this period. These drawings so astonished an artist friend of ours,
that he begged leave to show them to the President of the Academy
of Arts. No one could understand where I got these pictures from,
nor could I explain when asked. I only knew it came natural
to me.
I had an aunt, who was very fond of me, and encouraged me
to tell her all my strange fancies. One day I overheard her say
ing to my mother : " There is something mysterious about that
child, she does not seem to belong to any of us, it is as if she
were of a different race." Indeed, it is a strange fact that I never
felt any of the intimate blood-ties that generally exist between
members of the same family. In my later childhood I was even
reproached with this want of feeling, I was told that I had no
esprit de corps.
After I had reached the age of ten, my apparition ceased to
come to me regularly—her visits became less and less frequent,
and at last stopped altogether.
When I was taught history I most liked and was interested in
the life of Marie-Antoinette. I loved the very sound of her name,
and shed tears over her tragic fate.
Of course, every child, and even most grown-up people, may have
a special sympathy for some figure in history, but mine was more
than an ordinary sympathy, it was a cult, an obsession. I spent
hours at the South Kensington Museum gazing at Marie-Antoinette's
bust, examining her toilet-table with its little rouge pots, etc. I
can honestly say that my happiest hours were spent in contemplating
these treasures, though it was always with an emotion bordering
•on tears that I faced the bust of the queen.
However, life went on, I became very active, had many various
interests, and the image of the queen faded a little out of my
busy life; though when I did think of her, it was with an extra
ordinary affection ; I felt that she was dearer to me than any
one in the world. 1 very frequently dreamed of her, and though my
dreams generally were very disconnected and intangible, whenever I
•dreamt of her it was in a most logical sequence, and, contrary to
most dreams, I remembered every detail of it in the morning.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1907.
These dreams represented a routine of daily life at some palace—
always the same palace—but one I had never seen in reality.
About five years ago I was staying in a doctor's family at
Margate. We were a very cheery party, and there certainly was
nothing to suggest "ghosts" in the house. One day, however,
on entering my be1lroom, I saw the same figure—Marie-Antoinette—
standing by a small, rough deal table (there was no such table
in my room) ; she supported herself with one hand against this
table and looked up at me as I entered. It was the same face,
yet a horrible change had taken place : it looked haggard and
agonized, and her eyes, no longer radiant, fixed me with a strange,
glassy look. Her hair, almost white, was parted in the centre,
and it was flat now, not as she wore it before. This time I could
not restrain myself, I rushed forward with a sob, and, extending
my arms, gasped : " Marie-Antoinette ! " But as I moved the
apparition was gone. A year after this I went to Paris for the
first time, and among other places, went to the Musee Grevin. I
received a real shock on seeing there the exact reproduction of
my vision at Margate, with every detail. It represented the
Queen at the Conciergerie, only the wax face was unlike the one
I had seen ; it did not express any of the agony I noticed. My
friends who were with me laughed at my " fancy," and indeed I have
learnt to be very reticent about my strange experiences, as I feel I
would only meet with ridicule or scepticism were I to talk about them.
After this incident there was a period of constant dreams : the
same palace or else a park; Marie-Antoinette playing billiards; Marie-
Antoinette playing cards with Louis XVI., Madame Elizabeth and
myself; my playing on a spinet in a salon full of people, and
Marie-Antoinette standing near, signing to the crowd to be silent,
and so on. The odd part about these dreams was that I always
saw myself in them as a boy, never as a girl.
This last summer I was staying at a small village not far from
Versailles. The country of that part ought to have appeared quite
new to me, as I had never been on the outskirts of Paris. But
wherever I walked, St. Cloud, Marly, Versailles, I was haunted
by the sensation that I had looked on all this scenery before. The
very first time I went to Versailles I was accompanied by a servant
who had to do her shopping there. When she had done all her
commissions I suggested our looking at the Palace. When we got
there the place was already shut. We walked round the outside
of the palace, and, though I had not seen any plan of it, I found
JUNE, 1907. Dream Romances. 95
myself pointing out to the servant where used to be the king's
apartments, where the queen's, etc. She asked me whether I knew
the palace well. " Oh, no," I said, " I have never been here before,
and I don't know how I know all this, but I know ! " In walking
through the park the place was so familiar to me and seemed so
full of some vague memories which no sooner I seemed to elucidate
than the}' evaded me, that I trembled from emotion, feeling a
horrible choking sensation at my throat.
The next day our whole party went to see the Palace. One of
us had a guide book, but as I never refer to them before having
seen a place, finding it only confusing, I really knew less than
any of my friends what we were going to see. The first thing I
verified on entering was that I had perfectly correctly located
the different wings of apartments inhabited formerly by Louis
XVI. and Marie-Antoinette. We wandered through endless suites
of rooms, all more or less alike, and as nothing was written up
anywhere to indicate any special room, it was impossible to find
out anything except from the guide book. However, before my
friends had been able to form any idea from the guide book, I
stopped them in one particular room, seized by that same choking
emotion as the day before, and I went straight to a little door
which, being in a panel of the wall, would be hardly noticeable
to any one not knowing it was there. "There are rooms beyond, I
must go in there ! " I said. Just then one of the guides came up
to us: "Do you wish to see the petits appartements de Marie-
Antoinette?" and he unlocked the door for us. My friends were
perfectly astounded at my knowledge of the place, and I found
myself acting as guide to them better than the official guide, who
only shows the public what is catalogued in the book, whereas I
found doors leading to passages, leading to other rooms, without
being able to explain how I knew. Even the guide was astonished,
and thought I must have made extensive historical researches !
The place was just as I knew, as I expected it to be, and yet
very much changed. I believe if I were left alone in those rooms
and had my eyes shut, I could reconstruct on paper the exact
disposition of the rooms as they were formerly furnished. Trianon
seemed to me even more familiar, though I missed a great many
objects which I fancied should be there. The music room was the
identical one I had seen in my dream when playing before the
queen, only the chairs ought to have been placed in a different
position. One other curious fact in connection with Trianon is
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1907.
this : I had often designed the monogram " M.A. " underneath
portraits of Marie-Antoinette, and as every one will see, there
are many different ways [in which] this monogram can be drawn.
But my monogram was always the same, and I found it to be the
facsimile of the iron-wrought monogram on the staircase at Trianon.
But what disturbed me frightfully in seeing Trianon is the crowd
among which one is driven through the apartments by the guide.
I feel almost certain that if I could pass a day or a night alone in
those apartments, I should see people and scenes which have passed
there before.
Of course many people have the sensation, on seeing a new place
for the first time, that they have seen it before. There may even
be a simple scientific explanation for this. But I not only remember
these places, but before turning a corner I can tell what is beyond
in absolute detail. For instance, of the Chateau at Marly little
remains but ruins, and no guide book makes even mention of it.
On going there for the first time I described to a friend what we
should find around a bend in the road, and this was quite accurate.
In Paris itself I found less that seemed familiar to me, except
that I can never pass through the Rue St. Honore without a cold
shudder down my back, and nothing could induce me to walk
over a certain spot on the Place de la Concorde,—I always describe
a circle round it, and have a horrible sensation of fear and horror
of the entire square.
One night, while sleeping at a hotel at the corner of the Rue
St. Honore', I had a horrible nightmare. I heard the savage howling
of a mob, and on looking out of the window saw Marie-Antoinette
pass in the tumbril, and myself in the crowd, struggling frantically
to push my way through and shouting incessantly : " The queen !
Let me get to the queen ! I must get to the queen ! " And
again I was under the scaffold, stabbing furiously at the legs of
the executioner to prevent him from doing his gruesome work, while
the crowd jostled me back. Then I gave a horrible shriek . . .
and that was the end of my dream. While staying near Versailles
I several times saw Marie-Antoinette sit on a chair by my bed,
and even a fortnight ago, now I am in England, I saw her sitting
in a dejected attitude at my writing-desk in broad daylight. The
vision lasted only some seconds.
I have tried to find some explanation, some solution to this mystery
which has haunted me since my earliest childhood, but there seems
no plausible explanation. I seemed on the point of reconstructing
a consecutive remembrance of some former existence while in France,
but no sooner do I seem to hold the thread [than] I lose it, which
is a very painful sensation. But I have not yet lost hope that, on
returning to France, I shall get nearer the solution of this haunting
mystery.
No. CCXLL—VOL. XIII. JULY, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 97
Council Meetings, 97
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 98
Case, 103
A Criticism of the Society for Psychical Research, Ill
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
1>e closed during August and September, re-opening on Tuesday,
October 1st.
The next number of the Journal will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G.
MACARTNEY, DR. J. CLYDE, Monte Video, Uruguay, South America.
Macdonald, F. W. P., Major, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54
Parliament Street, London, S.W.
MURDOCH, LIEUT.-COLONEL J. BURN, Dharwar, Bombay, India.
COUNCIL MEETINGS.
THE 85th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, June 19th, 1907, at
4.30 p.m.; the President, the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, in
the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
Professor W. V. Barrett, Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St.
G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. S. C. Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Mr. V. J. Woolley.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as
correct.
The question of appointing a Eesearch Officer was discussed.
The 86th Meeting of the Council was held in the same
place on Friday, July 5th, 1907, at 2.45 p.m.; Sir Oliver
Lodge in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and
Miss Alice Johnson, Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Two new Members and two new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for May and June, 1907, were
presented and read.
Miss Alice Johnson was appointed Eesearch Officer to
the Society, the appointment to date from Michaelmas next ;
and Mr. E. A. H. Bickford-Smith was appointed Secretary
and Editor in her place from the same date.
PEIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBEES AND
ASSOCIATES.
THE 19th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only
was held in the large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Friday, July 5th, 1907, at 4 p.m. ; Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair.
Miss ALICE JOHNSON read a paper on " A Series of Auto
matic Writings." She explained that the writer in this case
was a friend of her own, whose acquaintance she had first
made by correspondence on matters connected with psychical
research four years ago, and from whom she had been receiving
automatic writing at intervals ever since. This lady did not
wish her name to be published, and was therefore referred to
JULY, 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 99
here as " Mrs. Holland." She had been accustomed to send Miss
Johnson all the originals of her script from September 1903
onwards, together with notes of the books she had read or
facts normally known to her which might throw light on
statements made in the script. A large number of passages
in it had been with her help traced to subliminal reminiscences
—sometimes appearing in an oddly distorted form—of what
she had heard or read ; and some instances of this were given.
But there was also a fair proportion of evidential matter.
The evidential incidents quoted on this occasion were : cases
of apparent telepathy between Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall,
(who were unknown to each other when the first cases
occurred) ; and correspondences between statements given in
their automatic scripts independently of one another. Thus,
on one occasion, Mrs. Holland's script gave a detailed descrip
tion of a room, which Mrs. Verrall identified later as her
dining room. On another occasion, when Miss Johnson had
arranged for the two automatists, who were then in different parts
of England, to write once a week on the same day and send
their writings to her to be compared, Mrs. Verrall's script
stated that a photograph of Carpaccio's St. Ursula was hanging
in Mrs. Holland's room. This was not the case, but on the
evening before Mrs. Verrall wrote, Mrs. Holland had been looking
through a portfolio of " Great Masters " and had been specially
attracted by a reproduction of Garpaccio's St. Ursula: so much
so that her father had asked her if she would like to have it
framed to hang in her room.
In other cases connections of a complicated and indirect
kind had occurred between the scripts of Mrs. Verrall and
Mrs. Holland. Mr. Piddington had first pointed out the
special interest and importance of what he called " cross-
correspondences " between the independent utterances of two
mediums, in his paper on the phenomena of Mrs. Thompson's
trance (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., pp. 294-307); and
some striking cases that had occurred between Mrs. Verrall
and Mrs. Forbes were given in Mrs. Verrall's report on her
automatic writing (Proceedings, Vol. XX.). The characteristic
point in what may be called the most advanced type of these
cases is that we do not get in the writing of one scribe
either a verbatim reproduction of phrases in the other, or
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
the same idea expressed in different ways ; both of which
might result from direct telepathy between them. What
we get is a fragmentary utterance in one, which seems to
have no particular point, and another fragmentary utterance
in the other, equally pointless ; but when the two utterances
are put together, they are seen to supplement one another,
and it appears that there is one definite and coherent idea
underlying both, but only partially expressed in each.
Miss Johnson suggested that by this means it might be
possible to obtain evidence more conclusive than any obtained
hitherto of the action of a third intelligence external to the
minds of both the automatists ; since it is not easy to
suppose that a simple telepathic perception by one of them
of a fragment in the writing of the other could lead to the
production of a second fragment which can only after careful
comparison be seen to be related to the first. Such a case
suggests that a third intelligence is telepathically impressing
the two fragments respectively on them, and this intelligence
may be—as, in some of the cases referred to, it purports to be
—that of a deceased person.
Hitherto evidence for survival has mainly depended on
statements that seem to show the " control's " recollection of
incidents in his past life. Telepathy relating to the present,
such as we can get between living persons, would be more
satisfactory evidentially than telepathy relating to the past,
since it is much easier to exclude normal knowledge of events
in the present than in the past. These "cross-correspon
dences" are perhaps a means of getting evidence of this
stronger type for telepathy from the dead ; for they suggest
an independent invention, an active intelligence, constantly
at work in the present, not a mere echo or remnant of
individualities of the past.
Miss Johnson observed that the instances just brought
forward were obviously far from sufficient to prove any such
agency. It was clear that most of Mrs. Holland's script
represented merely the workings of her own subliminal mind.
There was evidence also of direct telepathy between her
mind and the minds of other living persons. But there
were also indications, as Miss Johnson thought would appear
when the full report of the case was published, of telepathy
JULY, 1907. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 101
between her mind and the minds «if persons who were once
living, and who—it may be—live stiR,",.
SIR OLIVER LODGE remarked that the" cross-correspondences
described represented what was to his mind a very important
new type of evidence. The instances quoted "b"y Miss Johnson
were, of course, as she had said, far from conclusive in them
selves ; but they were to be regarded as samples , of the
evidence obtained from several different automatists' which had
been accumulating during the last few years, and whicfh" he
hoped it would before long be possible to present to the Society.
He did not know if members fully realised the difficulty *o£"
proving the survival of personal identity. Communications
purporting to come from a named person and containing plenty
of intelligence appropriate to that person were by no means
sufficient, in face of the elastic hypotheses of telepathy and
clairvoyance. But by this device of cross-correspondence—that
is to say, the splitting up of a communication into fragments,
each of them unintelligible without its context, and then
giving the fragments through several different automatists,
something like a scientific proof of survival of intelligence
may ultimately be possible. The difficulties are great, and
much patience is required on both sides ; but it appears as
if something on those lines was being actually attempted.
Those who had listened to the paper that afternoon would be
able to form some conception of the amount of labour and
time that it was necessary to spend in studying and compar
ing these scripts before the full significance of them could be
determined ; and it was probable that a still longer study
might reveal other connections that were now obscure. It
was on this account that it appeared best not to hurry the
publication of the reports. If, as he hoped, a more complete,
critical and accurate study of the whole evidence should result
in establishing on a firm and scientific basis some theories
which at present could only be regarded as conjectural, the
delay would be more than justified.
MR. F. C. CONSTABLE, in connection with the theory of
" cross-correspondences " suggested by Miss Johnson, referred to
a case described in Mrs. Verrall's report (Proceedings, Vol. XX.
pp. 213-217). Here Dr. Hodgson, during a sitting with Mrs.
Piper, had asked a " control " to appear to Miss Verrall with
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
a spear in his hand. The .control asked, " Why a sphere ? "
and Dr. Hodgson repeated ." spear. " At the next sitting the
control said he had "made himself visible with a " sphear "
{sic). A passage, in "-Mrs. Verrall's script, written between the
dates of these. .tV.b- sittings, referred to the seeing of a sphere
and to a .spear, ''thus giving separately the two notions which
had appeared in a confused state of amalgamation in Mrs.
PiperX.lscl-ipt. In this case, it would seem that there could
hardly-.tiave been any direct transference of ideas from Mrs.
-Piker's to Mrs. Verrall's mind, unless we suppose that the
• Tne'aningless word "sphear" was transferred, and that its two
constituents emerged separately in Mrs. Verrall's mind. The
incident pointed rather, in the opinion of the speaker, to the
intervention of some third intelligence.
MR. Fox PITT suggested that in investigations of this kind
it was important to ascertain what were the preconceived ideas
of the automatist and those associated in the experiment. If
they had a bias towards belief in the survival of personality,
the script would probably be influenced by this. The cases
given that afternoon might be regarded as showing primarily
that the subliminal faculties greatly transcended those of the
supraliminal. He believed that the conception of separate and
permanent individual entities was a crude notion of merely
temporary material conditions, and that the supernormal faculties
of the subliminal self indicated that it was not an isolated
entity, but the psychical potentiality of one individual in its
relation to all other subliminal selves.
MR. A. T. FRYER said that he considered the instances
quoted by Miss Johnson suggested nothing at all beyond
telepathy from living persons. He pointed out that one case
could be explained by telepathy from Dr. Verrall, who had
been thinking of the topic that turned up in Mrs. Holland's
script ; and that in the other cases it might be supposed that
Miss Johnson herself had acted as a telepathic medium between
Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland.
Miss JOHNSON replied that in that case it would have to
be supposed that she had telepathically transmitted ideas of
which she had no normal or conscious knowledge, since she
was unaware of the contents of both scripts until some time
after they were written.
JULY, 1907. Case. 103
CASE.
L. 1159. Collective Apparition.
IN Mr. Myers's Human Personality (Vol. II., pp. 42-45)
reference is made to a number of cases where apparitions
were seen at or about the time of death, the dying person
having arranged beforehand that he would, if possible, appear
to some friend after his death. These are followed by a
remarkable case (op. cit. p. 45) where a choirmaster sees in
his own house the apparition of one of his singers who had
died suddenly from a stroke of apoplexy two or three hours
before. The man was to have gone to his house for a choir
practice on the following evening, and it was supposed that
the thought of this engagement might have been in his mind
just before he died. Somewhat similarly in the case here
given the apparition of a man is seen in a place where the
man himself would have been, had he lived to carry out an
engagement made probably the day before.
The first account of this case appeared in The Annals of
Psychical Science, for January, 1907, and is quoted thence
by the kind permission of the Editor.
I had been staying for the fishing in a little inn in the North of
Scotland for some three months this year (1906) and my visit
was just drawing to a close with the end of the trout season when
the circumstances of this story took place.
The fishing at this spot consists in a series of four lochs linked
together by a narrow stream, barely 15ft. in width, so that the
lochs form a sort of chain. This stream runs along by the side
of the coach road past the inn for some two miles, when it
branches off to the left and follows a little lane leading to the
only Highland village of the district, lying three miles from the
junction of the lane and the coach road. It is from this village
that the ghillies or boatmen are obtained, and their custom is to
come each morning as required from the village to the inn to
take the anglers out on the lochs. After the day's sport is over
they walk home to the village, often in the dark of the early
Scotch evening.
September had arrived and beside myself there were few anglers
left at the inn : Mr. H., who had been fishing there for three
weeks and knew the locality and the inhabitants well, an old
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
gentleman and his wife who had arrived the night before the
occurrence, and one or two more who are not in any way con
nected with the story.
The elderly gentleman, whom I have mentioned and whom we
will call Mr. B., was accustomed to have one particular ghillie,
named James, and consequently, on the night of their arrival, this
boatman, a man of 55 or 56 years of age, and well known to both
Mr. H. and me, came down to the inn to hear what the plans
for the morrow might be.
The pipes were played that night, and the old ghillie delayed
his departure till a late hour, listening to the music, and it was
9 o'clock (and a pitch dark night) before he left for home. He
was accompanied for some distance by a lad of about 18, but ab
the cross roads they parted and James went on alone. He never
arrived home that night, and the two old sisters, with whom he
lived, sat up all through the night, anxiously expecting his knock,
though this we did not learn until the following evening.
That next morning Mr. H. and I were to fish at a loch together,
and Mr. H., coming out after breakfast, saw old James standing
in his accustomed place on the road. A little later both Mr.'H.
and I saw the man bending down by one of the boats tied to
the little jetty that runs into the loch in front of the inn. We
both knew [the man so well that we could have made no mistake
and we were so close to him that I personally gave him a morning
greeting, though I received no answer.
Mr. H. said to me : "I wonder who it is old James is going to
ghillie?" I heard this question but did not answer it, and it was
also heard by Mr. B.'s wife from her bedroom window.
Later in the day, while fishing on the loch, Mr. H. again
asked: "Who is old James ghillying?" and I then answered: "It-
must be for the old gentleman who came last night." Our fish
ing over, we returned to the inn and Mr. H. went straight up to
his bedroom to change. I was removing my boots when Kate,
the waitress, came up to me and said :
" Poor old James has gone astray, Captain."
" Nonsense," I said, " he was here only this morning, I saw
him."
The maid answered that it was quite impossible, as he had not
arrived home the night before and his sisters were in a great state
of anxiety about him.
I immediately went up to Mr. H.'s room and simply said : " Old
JULY, 1907. Case. 105-
James is lost." Mr. H. answered : " That is very extraordinary, I
saw him here this morning."
I then went down and told my host of the inn that both H.
and I had seen James that morning, but he said the thing
was impossible, as the other ghillies were along the road and
standing in front of the hotel at that time, and knowing that
James was missing they were on the look-out for him, and could
not have failed to see him. Moreover he said that James was a
most reliable man, who never failed to turn up when required and
always went home at nights.
Ghillies and crofters were searching all that night for the missing,
man, thinking that he might have got lost on the moors, or stuck
in a peat-bog, but beyond his handkerchief, which was discovered
some way from the cross-roads, no trace could be found. The
following morning operations were commenced for dragging the
deep pools along the stream and we found the poor old man
lying in the water a mile and a half from the cross roads, face
downwards. He had evidently lost the road in the dark and
fallen face foremost into the stream. It was clear that he had
been in the water for some thirty-six hours and that it was on
that dark night, when he left the inn at 9 o'clock, that he met
his death. So that when H. and I saw him, or thought that we
saw him, he was in reality dead.
Now both H. and I were, and still are, prepared to swear that
we saw James, or the "spirit" of James, standing outside the inn
on that September morning, though the figure was unobserved by
any other of those standing there, and I should mention that
when we saw James we also saw the other ghillies, both our own
and those belonging to other anglers, waiting for the start, and
these men we saw in close proximity to the dead ghillie. At the
time, as I have mentioned before, we did not know that he was
missing or that he had not returned home the night before, though
this fact was known to the ghillies. They did not tell us during
the day, but those who know the Celt know what a reticent and
uncommunicative individual he can be. Moreover, H.'s comments
during the day, which were heard by me and by Mrs. B., show
clearly that he had noticed James standing in waiting and had
paid particular attention to the fact, as he wondered by whom
he was to be employed, and our separate answers to the report
in the evening that the man had gone astray are ample proof
that we were unaffected by what the other said. . . .
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
Whether this appearance was subjective or objective I cannot
say, and I will not enter into conjectures, but will conclude by
saying that both H. and I are convinced that we saw the form
of old James on that morning standing outside the inn and bend
ing down by the boats moored to the jetty.
F. ROBERTSON-REID,
(Late Capt. 3rd Cameronians.)
We wrote to Captain Robertson-Reid to make further
enquiries, and after some delay on account of his having been
abroad, obtained from him the name and address of his
friend Mr. H. This gentleman has kindly sent us the fol
lowing account of his recollections of the incident.
May 18th, 1907.
It has been some time before I have been able to write out
the accompanying narrative of the incident regarding which you
wrote me last month, and now I fear I have had to do so in a
somewhat rough shape. However it is perhaps best so, and I
have stated only what is simple fact. I found the matter sufficiently
interesting and thoughtful, and perhaps what has amused me (I
use the word only in the interested sense) most is that the appear
ance should be to two—let us say reasonably practical men, one
of whom is certainly not particularly imaginative, unless the
occasion requires it, while there were standing there half-a-dozen
Sutherland crofters, specimens of a race wonderfully " superstitious "
in their way. Many a yarn have I heard from them of the signs
foretelling some death, or the noises and ghostly visions after such
an occurrence. They, however, on this occasion were most stubborn
in their lack of appreciation of the possibility of such a thing
appearing as we believe appeared.
As descriptions of scenery and people are out of place in such
a narration as this, I will endeavour to be as brief as possible in
dealing with them—merely giving the few particulars necessary
to enable any reader to more or less picture the scene.
Up in the wilds of Sutherland, away from the beaten track of
train or motor car, there stands a little fishing inn, popular among
ardent anglers by reason of the excellent trout fishing that the
surrounding country provides. So small and so confined is the
life there that visitors and inhabitants become within a few days
well acquainted with each other, and to one who, like myself,
JULY, 1907. Case. 107
has paid a number of visits to the spot the faces and figures of
all the country folk are very familiar.
The Inn itself stands on one of the mail roads running from
north to south, and each day the mail car brings its little quota
of passengers and letters to deposit along the route. A loch lies
in front of the Inn, and out of its northern end flows a stream,
and this and the road run parallel for two miles, when you come
to a cross-roads. The mail car goes along to the right, while to
the left a narrow lane through the peat bogs branches off with
the stream and brings you after another two miles to a small
hamlet, where the crofters and shepherds of the neighbourhood
dwell. The river runs on to link into a chain four or five lochs,
which lie beneath the shelter of the mountains fringing the north
of Scotland. Over the mountain sides the crofters from the
village graze their cattle and sheep and cut peat on the low-
lying lands, but their most remunerative work is to act as ghillies
on the lochs for visitors at the Inn.
So it is that each day brings down from the village to the Inn a
little band of men, varying according to the number of anglers
stationed there. In the early morning the crofters thus engaged will
walk from their homes to the Inn and wait to take their various
employers out in the boats. The best of feelings exists between
crofters and anglers, and it is easy to understand how quickly one
gets to know each face and form of those excellent men and how
attached one becomes to them. There are few of those ghillies
whom I certainly would fail to literally tell in the dark.
So much for the place and its people, and it only remains for
me to say that in narrating the following incident I have
endeavoured to keep to the plain unembellished facts, telling them
in as simple a form as I can.
The end of the 1906 fishing season was fast drawing to a close
with the advent of September, and on, I think it was the first
Wednesday of that month, there only remained at the Inn beside
myself, Captain R., a friend of mine, and a family who were due
to leave on the Thursday morning. The Wednesday evening mail
brought an elderly gentleman and his wife, but their arrival, which
took place in my absence, escaped my attention, a point which
is of some importance.
On Wednesday night the ghillies who were down at the Inn
stopped until a late hour listening to a piper and among the last
to leave was one James M'Kenzie. He was a particularly pleasant
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
man of some 55 years of age, and both Capt. R. and I had
employed him as ghillie on various occasions and knew him very
well. It was very dark when M'Kenzie started off home, and he
was accompanied to the cross-roads by a lad. Here they said good
night, and James continued along the lane to the crofters' village.
That was the last time that he was seen alive, for, though we
did not know it until later, the poor fellow, evidently losing his
way in the dark, stepped into the river and was drowned.
Thursday morning came and after breakfast I went out on to
the porch of the Inn, by the side of which the ghillies were
accustomed to stand, and there as usual they were, half-a-dozen
of them, and James M'Kenzie among them. Of him I was very
certain, for I wondered what brought him there on that day. For
the presence of all the others I could account. Two were there to
bid farewell to the departing family, who had employed them ;
Capt. R.'s and my ghillie were there, and also an old shepherd,
who was always to be seen about in the morning. But I could
not account for the presence of James. Had I recollected the old
gentleman and his wife, for whom M'Kenzie had actually been
engaged the night before, I should have thought no more about it,
but they had at that time entirely left my thoughts.
I nodded a general good morning to the men, and entered the
Inn once more. Five minutes later I came out again with Capt. E.,
and we walked arm-in-arm down to the little jetty that runs
out into the loch facing the Inn, and to which the boats are
moored.
Down by one of these boats, a dozen yards from where we stood,
was James M'Kenzie, bending down and apparently moving some
thing in the boat. Capt. E. said : " Good-morning, James ; " but
beyond looking up, so that we both plainly saw his face, James
gave no answer. Such a silence in a northern Scot is not remark
able, and we walked back towards the Inn. As we did so, I said
to my companion : " What is old James doing here this morning ? "
The question received no definite answer, but it was heard by an
independent party, the wife of the elderly gentleman. She heard
the question from her bedroom window, though without knowing
from whom it came, and she noted it simply because she felt she
could give the answer, as James was to ghillie her husband.
This fact is of some importance, as proving that it was on that
Thursday morning that we saw James, and dispersing the theory
that was raised that it was on the previous morning.
JULY, 1907. Case. 109
At this time we had not heard that M'Kenzie had never
reached home the night before and though the crofters and our
ghillies among them had been out searching for him during the
early hours of the morning, we did not hear of the disappearance
until we returned home that evening after fishing.
After we had said " Good-bye " to our departing friends, Capt. R.
and I set out together with our ghillies for a distant loch, and as
we walked I again asked what James was doing at the Inn that
morning. Capt. R. said that he did not know and the ghillies
did not, I think, hear me.
Arrived at the edge of the loch, I suddenly remembered the old
gentleman of the night before and at once said : " Oh ! old James
must be going to ghillie the old gentleman who arrived last night."
It was the constant recurrence of my thoughts to M'Kenzie and
my frequent allusions to him that as much as anything else con
vinced, and still convince, me that I saw him that morning.
In the evening, on returning, I went straight up to my bedroom,
leaving Capt. R. downstairs, and it appears that the parlour maid
came out to him and said : " A strange thing has happened ; old
Jamie has gone astray." " Nonsense," said the Captain, " I saw him
here this morning ; " but this the maid could not believe.
Capt. R. then came straight up to me and simply said : " A
most extraordinary thing has happened. Old James is lost." " Not
very extraordinary," I said, " I saw him here this morning." Thus
independently of one another we both at once said that we had
seen him that morning.
Capt. R. then told me what the maid had said and his own
convictions, and we went down to the innkeeper and told our tale.
The latter, however, would insist that we had been mistaken. Those
very ghillies, he said, with whom I had seen James standing after
breakfast had been hunting for him during the early morning, and
he certainly could not have been either upon the road or at the
Inn without being seen. His handkerchief had been found a short
way from the cross-roads and had been placed in the centre of the
road, but had remained untouched.
All that night search parties were out among the peat bogs and
along the river banks, but it was not until Friday morning that
we found the poor fellow's body. A doctor who had arrived gave
it as his positive opinion that the body must have been in the
water over 24 hours, and no doubt existed in any mind that it was
on that dark Wednesday night that James met his death.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
Capt. R. is still, and I think always will be, convinced that he
saw James M'Kenzie on the Thursday morning, and for his feelings
on the subject I will not speak. A word, however, as to my own
may help in some way to epitomise the story.
My first impression, as doubtless would be the case with any one
so placed, was that the thing was impossible and that I must have
made some mistake. But the more I thought of it, the more con
vinced was I and the more convinced have I become that I saw the
figure of the man there on that Thursday morning beyond the
shadow of a doubt. My constant remarks and thoughts about him,
my question as to his presence being heard, my recollection of Capt.
B.'s morning greeting to him, and our quite independently voiced
beliefs that we saw the man that morning, each is a sufficient conviction
in itself. That he was drowned on the Wednesday night I am
equally certain, and also that, had he been actually standing, in
the bodily flesh, among the ghillies and on the jetty when I saw
him, he was bound to have been seen by others besides myself,
especially as his absence was the chief subject of the ghillies'
thoughts at that time.
Such is the simple narrative of an incident that must be taken for
what it is worth. It is the plain truth, and I have endeavoured to
leave nothing unsaid at the expense of being somewhat lengthy. . . .
FRANKLIN HOLLAND.
In reply to enquiries as to the independence of these two
accounts, Mr. Holland informed us that Captain Eobertson-Eeid
had originally submitted his account to him and he had
suggested a few merely verbal alterations which did not affect
in any way the substance of the narrative. Mr. Holland
read the account when it appeared in the Annals of Psychical
Science and saw that Captain Eobertson-Eeid had adopted his
suggestions, but he had not since referred to or looked at it.
It seems, therefore, that the two witnesses agreed very closely
in their recollections of the details of the incident. Mr.
Holland did not know the address of the other gentleman
who was at the inn, and was not certain of his name, so
that no further corroboration has been yet obtainable.
The name and exact locality of the inn were communicated
to us, but Mr. Holland believed that the proprietor would not
wish this to be published.
JULY, 1907. Criticism of the Society for Psychical Research. Ill
A CEITICISM OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEAECH.
OUK attention has been drawn to some comments on the
present position of the S.P.Ii. made in the "Notes of the
Month " of the Occult Review for July, and as these comments
seem to be chiefly based on misrepresentations of matters of
fact, it may be worth while to give the facts briefly here.
The particular passage to which I refer runs as follows
{op. cit. p. 3) :
When, I wonder—if ever—will those 500 carefully investigated
and selected cases of Dr. Eichard Hodgson's, which were pigeon-holed
on the premises of the Society in England for two years after they
had been sent over from America, and finally brought back by Dr.
Hodgson to America in disgust—when, I ask, are these destined
to see the light of day 1 They have now thrice crossed the Atlantic
and are once more on English soil. It is very much to be hoped
that they are not destined to share the fate of that suppressed
chapter of Mr. W. H. Myers' Magnum Opus on the subject of
" Trance Mediumship " in which Dr. Hodgson collaborated, but
which failed to pass the psychical censor.
The "500 carefully investigated and selected cases of Dr.
Richard Hodgson's " exist, I am sorry to say, only in the
imagination of the editor of the Occult Review. They are not,
at least, and never were, to be found in any pigeon-holes
known to the officers of the Society. Dr. Hodgson was
accustomed, while acting as Secretary to the American Branch
of the Society, to send over to London such cases as he thought
might be suitable for publication, and many of these have
appeared from time to time in the Proceedings or Journal. A
certain number of them were returned to Dr. Hodgson at
his own request to add to the material which for several
years he had been accumulating for articles that he was planning
to write on various topics connected with psychical research.
As is well known, his premature death prevented him from
making any use of this material. Other cases received by
the Branch, the evidence for which was either dubious or
incomplete, were filed and stored in the office at Boston.
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1907.
After the dissolution of the Branch, the whole remainder
of its material was, as readers will remember, brought
over to England. It is now being examined and cases
coming up to our evidential standard—probably not very
numerous—will gradually appear in the Journal or Proceedings.
The Editor of the Occult Review speaks further of a
" suppressed chapter of Mr. W. H. Myers' Magnum Opus on
the subject of Trance Mediumship." For more than a year
before Mr. F. W. H. Myers's death I assisted him in preparing
Human Personality for publication, and after his death I
collaborated with Mr. Hodgson in editing and bringing out the
book. I am therefore in a position to state that the only
chapter on trance mediumship which ever existed is that
which appears in Vol. II. (Chapter IX.). It is perhaps hardly
necessary to add that the book was published independently
of the Society.
Whether or not the general policy of the Society is guided
by sound principles is of course a matter of opinion. But
it would be well that opinions should not be founded on
random assertions made by persons entirely unacquainted
with the circumstances to which they refer.
ALICE JOHNSON.
No. CCXLIL—VOL. XIII. OCTOBER, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research,
, CONTENTS.
PAGE
Increase in the Staff of the Society, 114
Cases, 116
Note on the Visions of Anna K. Emmerich, 122
The Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research, - - 124
Correspondence: The Arensburg Poltergeist, 127
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, NOVEMBER Jth, 1907, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A First Report on Cross-Correspondence Experi
ments with Mrs. Piper and other Automatists,"
WILL BE READ BY
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. GOT., 1907-
INCEEASE IN THE STAFF OF THE SOCIETY.
THE Society begins work this month with the strengthened
staff announced in the last number of the Journal. The new
Secretary and Editor, Mr. E. A. H. Bickford-Smith, who is a
public school and University man, and was called to the
Bar in 1886, has long been interested in the Society's
investigations, and combines with experience in literary,
secretarial, and organising work, a wide knowledge of men
and things acquired in travelling. Though he has hitherto
had little time for actively prosecuting psychical research,
practical work at the British School of Archaeology at Athens
has accustomed him to scientific observation and inference.
We believe that the Society is fortunate in securing his
services, and that there will be no reason to regret the loss
of Miss Johnson's help in the administrative part of the
Society's work, as she is thereby set free for experiment,
investigation, the preparation of reports on work done, and
other matters concerned with research proper.
No one knows till he has tried how much time and energy
is required, not only for experiment, but for profitable study of
the results of experiment and observation, and for setting forth
these results in a form useful to others. Yet without this,
real knowledge of the subjects which our Society investigates
cannot progress, and the Society becomes a mere bureau for the
record of sporadic observations. In its early days it had the
advantage of Edmund Gurney's undivided time and thought, and
the result in advancing and systematising our knowledge is
evident to all. Mr. Myers' work from the foundation of the
Society till his death is probably even better known to present
members of the Society through his work on Human Personality.
We cannot hope to fill the place of these pioneers, though
we still have workers devoting their main energies to Psychical
Eesearch, and still have many valuable helpers. At all periods
of the Society's existence, however, more work would have
been done, and probably more progress made, had there
been more workers with time, knowledge, and ability to do
it. The Council has therefore long looked forward to the
time when the Endowment Fund, of which the nucleus is
OCT., 1907. Increase in the Staff of the Society. 115
Mr. Aksakoffs legacy, should have accumulated sufficiently
to justify the appointment of a paid student or official ex
clusively engaged in investigation. If they have a little
forestalled the time when the fund should reach the amount
they fixed, it is because unworked material, partly obtained
through the energy of Miss Johnson, has accumulated on
their hands : and it is in the hope that general approval of
the step they have taken will lead to further contributions
being made to the Fund.1 It must be remembered that
though the steadily growing membership of the Society increases
its income, it also increases its expenses. Moreover, more
work, if it leads to more publication, will increase the printing
bill, and for more officers more office accommodation is
necessary and has indeed already been acquired. The general
funds cannot therefore be drawn on to any large extent to
pay the Eesearch Officer's salary.
The first piece of work which Miss Johnson as Eesearch
Officer proposes to undertake is a report on the automatic
script of " Mrs. Holland," of which she gave us a preliminary
sketch at the last meeting of the Society. The script is
voluminous and complicated, and any adequate investigation of
it must take a good deal of time, as will easily be understood
by those who heard the paper on it read. As there indicated,
much of it runs parallel to and has to be considered in
connection with some of Mrs. Verrall's automatic script, and to
a certain extent with the results of last winter's work with
Mrs. Piper. These results are being carefully studied, and Mr.
Piddington hopes to give a first report on them at the next
meeting.
It is hoped that the creation of a special department for
research will tend to the encouragement of experimental work
among members of the Society, and that those who are already
engaged in independent systematic investigation in any branch
of the Society's work will communicate with the Eesearch Officer
or in some instances—as opportunity arises—co-operate with her.
It is not contemplated that travelling about to investigate
sporadic cases of spontaneous phenomena should as a rule form
part of the Eesearch Officer's duties ; and accounts of such
1 Any such contributions should be sent to the Treasurer of the Endowment
Fund, Mr. J. G. PIDDINGTON, Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
phenomena—veridical apparitions, apparent hauntings, etc., etc.
—and all general correspondence should as heretofore be sent
to the Secretary and Editor, namely, to Mr. E. A. H. Bickford-
Smith.
E. FEILDING,
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK,
{Honorary Secretaries).
CASES.
L. 1160. Vision.
The following case was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mrs. Ward.
Both Mrs. Ward and her sister, Mrs. Eobinson, the percipient,
were Associates of the American Branch. Mrs. Ward writes :
620 DIVISION STREET,
CHICAGO, May 28th, 1903.
... I hope my sister, Mrs. Helen Avery Robinson, of Anchor
age, Kentucky, has written you of an experience she had a few
days ago. At the risk of repeating, I will tell you and will also
ask her to write you.
After going to bed she rose to answer the telephone. The call
was not for her and she laid down again, but did not go to
sleep. Then she saw her son yiDh a friend in a buggy driving
uphill. The buggy tipped over, her son sprang up and caught
the horse's head. In a few minutes it was righted again, and they
went on. She was not frightened, for she saw that nothing serious
had happened. A little later her son came in and began to tell
about the accident, when she interrupted with: "You need not
tell me. I can tell you all about it." Whereupon she described
the place and every detail of the accident accurately. This is as
told me by my daughter, who has just come from Anchorage.
LYDIA AVERY COONLEY WARD.
Mrs. Eobinson writes to Dr. Hodgson :
BONNYCOT, ANCHORAGE,
KENTUCKY, June 7th, 1903.
In compliance with my sister's request and yours as well as
with my own interest in psychic phenomenon, I shall write you
of this last experience that came to me on the night of May 17th.
My son and a friend had driven across the country to dine and
spend the evening with friends. The rest of the household had
OCT., 1907. Coses. 117
retired for the night. I was awakened by the telephone and
looked at the clock, finding it 11.30 p.m. I knew my son would
soon be in and thought of a window downstairs which I felt
might not have been locked, and determined to remain awake and
ask my son to make sure that it was secure. As I lay waiting
and listening for him I suddenly saw their vehicle, a light break-
cart, turn over, my son jump out, land on his feet, run to the
struggling horse's head, his friend hold to the lines, and in a
moment it was gone and I knew it was right and felt no
disturbance.
I met my son as he came in and spoke of the window. He
said : " We tipped over, mother." I replied " Yes. I know it, I
saw you," and described what I saw as I have to you, which he
said was just as it happened. He also said : " I thought for a
moment the horse would go up over the railroad tracks," and then
I remembered that the horse, as I saw him, was thrown up an
embankment. I said : " This happened about half-an-hour ago."
He looked at his watch, it was 12.15, and said "Yes." I did
not see them before they started out, as his friend called for him
with his horse and vehicle, and I did not know in what style they
went. . . .
HELEN AVERY ROBINSON.
Mrs. Eobinson's son confirms the account as follows :
June 23rd, 1903.
On Sunday night, May 17th, I was driving with a friend from
Glenview to Anchorage, Kentucky. We left Glenview at about
eleven o'clock. We were in a break-cart, and my friend was
driving a young and spirited horse. There was no moon, and
we could see indistinctly by star-light. About twelve o'clock,
when about two miles from home, we were driving along the edge
of a wood with a deep railroad cut on our right. The top of
this embankment had lately been levelled off and my friend mis
took it for the road, which was just beside the embankment and,
in the faint light, seemed to be about level with it. When I
called his attention to his mistake he turned down into the road
and overturned the cart. We were both thrown out. The horse
was startled and began rearing. I ran around the cart after
him and took him by the bridle, although my friend had not lost
his hold on the reins. We righted the cart and got home with
out further accident. The family had been in bed for some time,
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
but my mother had been aroused at eleven-thirty by the telephone.
As I came in she gave me the message. I told her that we had
overturned the cart. She then told me that she had seen the
accident at twelve o'clock and, without suggestion from me,
described it accurately. She had seen me thrown out backward
and knew how I had run around after the frightened horse to
catch his bridle, which I did only after he had turned completely
around.
AVERY ROBINSON.
L. 1161. Simultaneous Dreams.
The following case was obtained for the American Branch
through Dr. M. L. Holbrook, of 46 East 21st Street, New York,
formerly an Associate of the Branch. The witnesses requested
that their names should not be published. The first account
is given in a letter from Mr. E. J. to his brother Mr. G. J.
(who was also an Associate of the American Branch), as
follows :
January 6th, 1901.
My bed stands with the head against the west wall of the room,
head next the door. Annie's bed stands directly opposite, head
against the east wall, with a space of about six feet between them.
I dreamed on Friday night that mother came into the room,
passed beside my bed, looked at me and went to the foot of Annie's
bed. The impression was so strong that it awoke me.
I told my dream at breakfast and Annie remarked, "How queer
that is ; for I dreamed last night that your mother came into the
room, leaned over the foot of my bed, with her arms crossed just
as she always used to stand and talk when I was sick. She said
that Fred told her that I did not realise how sick my mother was,
and that she would not live three months, and that startled me
so that I woke up."
Now, perhaps you can explain this. If you can, I should like to
have you do so.
Mrs. B. is better than she has been for some time, sits up some
every day, walks about a little.
Mr. G. J., in a letter to Dr. Hodgson, dated February 15th,
1901, enclosing the above, states that Mrs. B., the mother of
"Annie," was then 83 years old, and had been expected to
die at almost any time during the previous year; that his
own mother had died in 1883 and his brother Fred in 1858,
and that his sister-in-law had never known this brother. Mr.
:OCT., 1907. Cases. 119
E. J., on being applied to by Dr. Hodgson, wrote to him as
follows :
February 23, 1901.
Replying to your letters of 21st to Mrs. J. and myself, the facts
follow. The room in which I sleep has two beds standing foot to
foot, about five feet apart. My bed stands nearest the door entering
from the hall. One night, about a month since, I dreamed that
'my mother, who has been dead nearly twenty years, entered the
room from the hall, passed down beside my bed, looking at me,
and stopped at the foot of my wife's bed. The impression was
so strong that I awoke. In the morning I related at the breakfast
table the dream and my wife immediately said, " How strange
that is ; for I dreamed last night that your mother came into the
room and leaned over the foot of the bed, just as she always
used to when she came into the room when I was sick. She
made some remarks about the care of my mother, and said that
Fred said that she (Mrs. B.) would not be with us a great while."
Fred was a brother who died many years ago, and whom my wife
never met. This made so strong an impression on her that she
awoke, but as neither knew that the other was awake, of course
there was no fixing the time of the dreams. . . .
Mrs. J.'s secretary wrote to Dr. Hodgson as follows :
March 1st, 1901.
In reply to your letter of February 25th, Mrs. J. directs me to
say that she has nothing to add to or change to make in the
statement made by Mr. J.
Dr. Hodgson afterwards learnt from Mr. J. that Mrs. B.
died on June 12th, 1901.
L. 1162. Simultaneous Dreams.
The following is another case of simultaneous dreams by a
husband and wife, also obtained through the American Branch.
The witnesses desire that their names should not be published,
for fear of newspaper notoriety. Mr. D. wrote to Dr. Hodgson
as follows :
June 18th, 1899.
Noticing your address in the N.Y. Sunday Journal of even date,
I write to tell you of an instance of telepathy in which, as an
additional straw, your Society may find interest.
In the summer of '97, one night while sleeping I dreamed that
I was in an old, abandoned and ruined saw-mill, which was built
• on timbers out over a river. The plank floor was gone except
for now and then a plank, and the water, about eight feet below,
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
looked black, stagnant and slimy. There were just enough planks
and timbers left to cause a "creepy," shadowy darkness to prevail
below. There were two ladies came to look at the place, and being
afraid to trust the planks for footing, I took one on each arm,
and was proceeding out to the further end of the ruin, over the
water to where the old saw was, when something white glimmering
in the water below through the dusk attracted my attention, and
I saw it to be the face of my wife, Mrs. D., just showing above
the water, with her large eyes looking into mine, but without a
motion or sound. I immediately jumped into the water and caught
her round the shoulders and neck to support her, and at that instant
was roused from sleep by a smothered cry from Mrs. D. at my side.
Intuitively I knew how matters were and asked her (after shaking
her to awaken her) what she had dreamed to frighten her.
She said that she was dreaming that she was in the water
drowning and was trying to reach up her arms to help herself,.
and cried out as I heard her. . . .
Mrs. D. wrote to Dr. Hodgson :
June 22nd, 1899.
In reply to your letter of the 20th to Mr. Davis, relating to
our " dreams," I will relate my experience as perfectly as possible.
The first sensation I remember in my dream was of finding
myself sinking in a pool, a large pool, or pond of water by the
roadside, and of throwing up my arms above the water and try
ing to scream for help, and just as I felt my hand grasped by
some one, I could not tell by whom, to help me, Mr. Davis spoke
and I awoke.
I sometimes have unpleasant dreams and make a slight sound,
when he always wakens me, but we both thought it remarkable
when on this occasion we found that there was perfect coincidence
in the time, even to a second, and almost perfect coincidence in
the subject matter of our dreams.
Mr. D. sent to Dr. Hodgson on July 3rd, 1899, an account
of an apparently telepathic impression that had occurred to
him a few weeks before in regard to the death of a friend.
He had had a strong impression of her presence, and that
she told him she was dead. He informed his wife of this
at the time, and they heard later the same day that the
lady had died about 24 hours before the impression occurred.
They knew, however, that she had been seriously ill, though
it was believed that she was then recovering.
L. 1163. Thought-transference.
The following case seems to be an instance of spontaneous
thought-transference, in which the triviality of the idea con
OCT., 1907. Cases. 121
veyed does not detract from the cogency of the incident.
The account comes from Mr. F. W. Caulfeild, who writes :
SYDMONTON, HAYWARDS HEATH, July 7, 1905.
In the autumn of 1903 my daughter and myself went to visit
an old friend of mine, a clergyman, who had lately been appointed
to a country living on the hanks of the Thames, and whom I had
not seen for many years. My friend met us at the station in his
pony carriage, and while driving us to his house told us of an
attempt he had made to organise the charities of his own and the
neighbouring parishes. He said he had written to a friend in an
adjoining parish on the subject, and that he, i.e. my friend, parti
cularly objected to the practice, when a poor man had met with
some loss, of sending him round the neighbourhood with a signed
petition to collect money.
Suddenly an idea flashed on my mind which I remember appeared
to me rather smart and witty, and I said : " After all, pigs are not
immortal," meaning of course that a poor man with a pig must
expect that it may die some time, and should lay his account for
that beforehand. My friend said : " Why that's just what I said
in my letter; I said, ' Even pigs are not immortal.'"
Judging from the very unusual character of the phrase, and from
my own sensations at the time I used it, I think it must have
been directly suggested to my mind.
FRANCIS W. CAULFEILD.
P.S.—I ought to add that to the best of my memory pigs had
not been previously mentioned in our conversation ; my thoughts
had naturally turned to horses or cows.
In answer to a request for corroboration, Miss Caulfeild
writes :
SYDMONTON, HAYWARDS HEATH, July llth [1905].
In reply to your letter of July 10, which my father has given
me, it is difficult, after more than a year and a half, to recall the
incident clearly.
I remember sitting beside our host who was driving, and at the
same time looking back every now and then over his shoulder to
speak to my father, who was sitting on the back seat.
Our host was describing what a pitch the sending round of
begging petitions had come to in his parish, and my father said
quickly, " After all, even pigs are mortal."
Our host laughed, and, looking back at my father, said : " How
strange ; those were the very words I used in my letter to .
I said : ' Even pigs are mortal.' " I underline pigs, because I remem
ber he laid stress on the word.
DOROTHY CAULFEILD.
P.S.—I remember feeling a little injured that our host did not
laugh more heartily at my father's ban mot, which of course was
explained, as he had made it himself before.
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
NOTE ON THE VISIONS OF ANNA K. EMMERICH.
IN a review in The Guardian of March 13th, 1907, of
Professor W. M. Eamsay's Pauline and Other Studies in Early
Christian History, there is some discussion of the visions of
Anna Katharina von Emmerich, the publication of which by
Clement Brentano led to the discovery of the so-called House
of the Virgin near Ephesus on July 29th, 1891. Anna
Emmerich died in 1824, and Brentano's report of her
visions was founded on his conversations with her, but was
not published till 1841. His best-known book on the subject
is Leben der heil. Jungfrau Maria, nach der Anna K. Emmerich
Bdrachtungen (Miinchen, 1852). The reviewer states that
from what he had heard from a friend of his who had
known Brentano well and had often talked to him about
the Westphalian nun in whose visions he was so much
interested; it seemed clear that Brentano had quite innocently
supplied her with material for some of her visions. He told
her, for instance, about the Spanish Franciscan nun, Maria
de Agreda, whose visions are recorded in The Mystic City of
God, and of an attempt to get her canonised. A few days later
Anna had a vision representing this attempt in a symbolical
manner. Brentano's report of her may probably be taken as
accurate as far as it goes, but uncritical as to the means by
which she might have learnt the facts represented in her
visions. The reviewer thinks it likely that some one had
supplied her with information about Ephesus ; for, whereas the
tourist generally approaches Ephesus from the north, she
makes St. John and the Virgin, coming from Jerusalem, see
what is visible from the north and not from the south.
" She also commits the absurd mistake of making St. John
find a Christian community at Ephesus in the sixth year
after the Crucifixion. Nevertheless, the curious fact remains
that her descriptions led to the so-called House of the Virgin
being discovered. It is the ruin of a mediaeval church, but it
is thought that part might belong to a building of the first
century." l
1 Some photographs of this building are reproduced in an illustrated article
on the subject, entitled " Panaghia Capouli ; or, the House of the Blessed
Virgin Mary at Ephesus," by W. F. Griffitt Blackler, in The Treasury, April,
J907.
OCT., 1907. Note on the Visions of Anna K. Emmerich. 123
We wrote to the Guardian reviewer, asking if he could
give us any more information about Brentano's investigation
of Anna Emmerich, and he replied in the following letter,
which he kindly allows us to print here :
DULANY, BlDEFORD,
NORTH DEVON, May 4, 1907.
I cannot tell you much more about Anna K. von Emmerich.
The chief thing to note for your purpose is that the nun evidently
reproduced in her visions the materials with which Brentano supplied
her, and he took down the visions and revelations as she related
them to him. These chiefly had reference to the Passion of Christ,
going into minute details, which are not found anywhere but in
legends. Brentano's report of these visions was published in German
and French. The London Library, I think, has La douleureuse
Passion de Jdsus, by A. K. Emmerich. Brentano apparently did not
see that a great deal of what she told him was what he had told
her, transformed into a vision by a very excitable temperament, a
very active imagination, and perhaps a little deceit.
My informant was Dr. Dollinger, whom I knew very well
indeed. . . . Dollinger's opinion was that in such cases there was
generally an element of deceit. " The temptation to be ' interesting '
is to most women irresistible." You may care to know that
Dolliuger had known a case of stigmatization like that reported of
S. Francis. It was in the Tyrol. "The woman had a reputation
for great sanctity, and pilgrimages were made to see her. I was
living close by, and saw her several times and observed her. She
was constantly in a state of ecstasy, quite unconscious. I remarked
that flies walked about over her eyeballs without her taking any
notice. She was confined to her bed. But every Thursday evening
and Friday she gave herself up to the contemplation of the Passion,
kneeling up in bed in quite an ecstatic condition. When she
returned to consciousness she did not speak for some time, but
made signs of recognition. The stigmata were rosy-coloured spots
on her hands, and she was believed to have the same on her feet.
The latter I did not see. How the marks were produced I do
not pretend to say. It is not yet sufficiently known how far such
things may be the result of natural causes, e.g. of a very violently
excited imagination." This is from notes of a conversation in
1872. ...
A. PLUMMEB.
Dr. Plummer was not able to tell us whether an account
of this case of stigmatisation had ever been published. The
phenomenon is now of course a well-recognised one, and the
most instructive discussion of it is to be found in Mr. Myers's
Human Personality, Vol. I., pp. 188 and 491-499.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
THE PEOCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
THE second Part of the Proceedings of the new American
Society contains a good deal of matter which should be
interesting to our members.
The first article, by Professor William James, discusses a
striking case of clairvoyance reported to him by Dr. Harris
Kennedy, a cousin of Mrs. James. The case occurred in
1898 and accounts were obtained within a few days of the
occurrence, but, for some reason that does not appear, have
not been published until now. They relate to the finding of
the body of a drowned girl through impressions received in
trance by a certain Mrs. Titus, a non-professional medium.
The girl had disappeared from her home early on Monday
morning, Oct. 31st, 1898, having been last seen by a few
people in the street leading to a bridge across a lake, and
by one person on the bridge. Some 150 men were hunting
for her in the woods and on the lake shore all that day and
during the next two days a diver searched the lake in vain
for her body. Mrs. Titus lived in a village about 4| miles
from the home of the girl, whom she did not know, though
her husband worked in the same mill with the girl's sister.
On Sunday she told her husband that something awful was
going to happen, and on Monday morning, just as he was
leaving for the mill, she said it had happened. At noon
he told her that the sister had gone home—it was imagined
because her mother was ill ; in the evening they heard that
the girl was missing, and on Tuesday Mrs. Titus talked about
it and said she was in the lake,—which was of course a
natural guess to make.
On Wednesday evening Mrs. Titus became entranced, and
on being wakened by her husband said if he had let her
alone she could have discovered by the morning where the
girl was. That night she had two more trances, during which
she told her husband that she saw the girl standing on a
frost-covered log on the bridge, that her foot slipped and
she fell backwards into the water, and that she was lying
in a certain place by the bridge, head downwards between
OCT., 1907. The Proceedings of the American Society. 125
two logs, the body covered with mud and brush and one
foot projecting with a new rubber shoe on. A curious point
reported by Mr. Titus was that when questioned about the
girl she would answer, but apparently she did not hear him
when he spoke to her of other things.
In the morning Mr. Titus told his wife's experience to
a friend of his and to the foreman at the mill where he
worked (both of whom confirm the account fully) and obtained
leave from the latter to take his wife to the lake. After
going to the bridge and identifying the place seen in her
vision, Mrs. Titus went with her husband to the house of a
mill-owner, Mr. Whitney, who had mainly organised the search
for the body and employed the diver. They told their
story and persuaded Mr. Whitney to return to the bridge
with them and order the diver to go down at the point
indicated by Mrs. Titus. He did so and found the body
just in the place and position described. The testimony
of the diver, which, as well as that of Mr. Whitney, is given
in full detail, shows that the body was found at a depth of
about 1 8 feet in the water ; that the water was so dark
that no one could see into it ; and that he himself could
see nothing while in the water, but found the body entirely
by feeling.
The evidence for the facts in this case is unusually full and
strong ; as to their supernormal character, the main question
would seem to be how much information existed in the neighbour
hood about the girl's doings which might have furnished the
material for Mrs. Titus's trance-impressions. It seems that there
was a light frost that morning and that the girl's footprints were
traced on to the bridge and up to a distance unrecorded upon
it. This was known to all the town ; but that no definite
clue was really afforded by these footprints was shown by
the fact that the searchers who knew of them were never
theless hunting the woods as well as the lake side, while
the diver had searched along both sides of the bridge, which,
it is important to note, was from an eighth to a quarter of
a mile long. There was every reason to believe that Mrs.
Titus had not been to the place since the accident, nor—
Mr. Whitney says—for two or three years previously ; so
that it is difficult to suppose that she could have had any
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
normal means of forming a judgment as to the whereabout*
of the body.
In the next article, entitled " The M'Caffrey Case," by
Professor Hyslop, another instance of supposed clairvoyance
is related. A young man named Michael M'Caffrey dreamt
that an English soldier appeared to him and told him to
dig near a certain stump where he would find a paper which
the soldier had received from the Bank of England for money
deposited there. On digging he found an old paper between
some flat stones. Another dream instructed him to dig
deeper at the same place, and he did so and found another
old paper in a bottle. These papers purported to be two-
certificates of deposit in the Bank of England for £4000
and £10,000 respectively. They turned out on examination
to be forgeries ; but there seems strong evidence that M'Caffrey
discovered them as the result of information given in his
dream.
The whole story is told in great detail at considerable
length, and illustrates well the essential weakness—from an
evidential point of view—of cases of this type. For it
appears that many years previously a certain man had been
found hung on a tree on the farm of M'Caffrey's grandfather.
He was a friend of the M'Caffreys, and there was some
suspicion of foul play in connection with his death, and also-
a report that M'Caffrey's father had made vague references
from time to time to a possible fortune to be found under
the pine stumps on his farm. Perhaps the most plausible
hypothesis is that the dead man had some papers—supposed
to be valuable, but really forgeries—which had been either
given to or taken by the M'Caffreys ; that they had kept
them concealed for a long time to avert suspicion in con
nection with the death ; that young M'Caffrey had heard
something of the story as a child, and that his recollection
of it was revived in dreams.
It is at least impossible to disprove some such normal
explanation of the facts, and the case is instructive as
illustrating the practical impossibility of proving any person's
ignorance of long past events of which there are always an
indefinite number of possible sources of information. Thus
it differs essentially from the case given by Professor James,
OCT., 1907. The Proceedings of the American Society. 127
where the percipient's vision related to an event only two
days old, all the most important circumstances of which could
be investigated on the spot.
The Part concludes with an interesting report of an investi
gation of a Poltergeist case by Mr. Hereward Carrington, a
member of our own Society and one of Professor Hyslop's
most active colleagues in America, author of an important
book on The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism which we
hope to notice soon in the Proceedings. This was a
case which appeared very promising at the outset, the
principal witness being an educated man, " Mr. X.," Judge
for the Probate for the County of Hants in Nova Scotia,
whose testimony was confirmed by several other persons.
Mr. X.'s account, however, showed him to be a person of
extremely credulous nature, as well as occasionally subject to
hallucinations, and Mr. Carrington found that the phenomena
were the result of an organised trickery practised on him
by the people of the small town where he lived. Probably
this is an extreme case of imposture generated by a readiness
to be imposed upon, but no doubt the same thing often occurs
in a milder degree.
It is very satisfactory that the American Society should
already have found so much material of interest and value,
and it is hardly necessary to add that their cautious and
scientific treatment of it shows that they are fully alive to
the necessity for keeping up the standard of evidence in
psychical research.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE ARENSBURG POLTERGKIST.
IN connection with the disturbances of coffins in the cemetery
at Arensburg in 1844 (see Journal S.P.E., February, 1907),
Count Perovsky Petrovo-Solovovo sends us the following
letter which he received from a leading member of the
Bnxhoewden family, in whose vault the disturbances had
occurred. The explanation offered seems to account satis
factorily for all the facts of the case. It may be added that
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1907.
according to the account in Owen's Footfalls on the Boundary
of Another World (p. 187), these coffins were made of oak,
so that they would have floated in a sufficient depth of
water.
ARENSBOURG, 17/30 Mai, 1907.
MONSIEUR,
Eentre au mois de Mars a Oesel, j'ai de suite entrepris
une enquete sur 1'incident survenu en 1844 dans notre caveau de
famille, et si je ne vous ai pas donne de nouvelles, c'est que les
resultats de cette enqueue ont ete jusqu'a present minimes, et
•que j'esp6rais toujours pouvoir vous annoncer quelque chose de
positif.
Toutes les personnes agees, que j'ai questionnees a ce sujet, se
rappellent parfaitement de 1'incident en question et la plupart
affirme avoir entendu dire comme quoi un proces-verbal aurait ete
dresse. Sauf quelques exceptions, les details, dont votre journal
anglais fait mention, m'ont ete confirmed de toutes parts, mais, 4
mon grand regret, il m'a ete impossible de trouver une trace du
proces-verbal. Le consistoire d'Oesel a ete clos en 1889, lors des
reformes d'Alexandre III., et les archives de cette institution ont
«te transferees a Riga. Le document en question aurait done du
se trouver la-bas, mais une note dans votre journal ayant constate
qu'il n'y etait pas, je n'ai pas cru devoir pousser mes investiga
tions de ce c6te, et je me suis borne a faire des recherches dans
les dossiers de 1'ancien " Landgericht " qui jusqu'A, present n'ont
abouti a rien.
Avant de finir, permettez-moi Monsieur, de vous faire part de
1'explication qui a ete donnee plus tard par des personnes reputees
etre censees. A leur avis tous les degats constates dans notre
caveau auraient ete causes par 1'eau du sol (Grundwasser) qui en
automne et au printemps a la particularity de monter a de certains
endroits de 1'lle d'Oesel presque jusqu'a la surface de la terre pour
disparaitre ensuite tres vite en ete et en hiver. Le caveau qui
se trouve etre creuse sous terre se serait transforme a ces epoques
en puits, et comme il est assez vaste et que les cercueils y etaient
simplement deposes, ils auraient ete souleves et deplac6s par 1'eau.
La version dans le journal anglais, selon laquelle les desordres
auraient cesse apres une nouvelle inhumation des cercueils, c'est-a-
dire du moment que les intervalles entre les cercueils auraient ete'
emplies de terre, semble donner un certain fondement a cette
explication. En outre il a ete constate plus tard dans d'autres
caveaux qu'ils representaient en automne tout simplement des
etangs, dans lesquels la plupart des cercueils nageaient—chose
etrange—les pieds en I'air. II est aise de se figurer 1'etat de
desordre qui devait regner dans de pareils caveaux une fois que
1'eau avait baisse, et un pareil aspect devait facilement produire
1'impression comme si tous ces cercueils avaient ete renverses et
deplaces par des mains sacrileges.
No. CCXLIII.—VOL. XIII. NOVEMBER, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Cases, 130
Correspondence : The Arensburg Poltergeist, 144
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, DECEMBER ijtk, 1907, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
A case of Cross-Correspondence between
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall,"
WILL BE READ BY
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
CASES.
L. 1164. Telepathic Impression.
The subjoined report was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mr. G.
V. Chase. Most of the information comes from the percipient,
Mrs. Adam, but some of the cases are confirmed by other
witnesses. Mrs. Adam states that her account is based on
her diaries ; but no other contemporary records seem to exist.
The case is therefore not very strong evidentially, but it is
instructive as showing the apparent mixture of telepathy with
conscious observation and inference, thus throwing light on the
methods which are no doubt used by professional clairvoyants.
Mrs. Adam is a sister-in-law of Mr. G. V. Chase. The
latter's account is as follows :
NEOSHO, Mo., Mar. 7th, 1900.
My dear Dr. Hodgson,—Anent my letter of yesterday let me
give you a little experience—my first—with telepathy of the living.
Some seven or eight years ago my wife's sister, who is the
wife of one of the editors of the " San Francisco Call " (newspaper)
had an attack of La Grippe. (Soon after her recovery she
spontaneously developed this faculty in a wonderful degree, and
in nearly every letter to her sister (my wife) she recounted some
of her experiences. We were all avowed Agnostics. In August
of 1895 I had occasion to visit San Francisco, and was of course
the guest of Mrs. Adam, my sister-in-law, and her husband.
Soon after my arrival I alluded to the subject and asked her to
try to read my mind. She consented, and, taking my left hand
in her left, she explained that under these conditions she had the
best success, making her mind as complete a blank as it was
possible. To this latter end she toyed aimlessly with a pack of
cards lying in her lap—and waited for "impressions." After some
time she announced that she got absolutely nothing, and said that
with some she never had any success. I remarked that perhaps
it was because I was not thinking of anything persistently or
deeply. She replied by telling me to think of some occurrence
of recent date—say some man I had met—his name and features.
I thought of a gentleman I had met the morning before on the
platform at Bakersfield as the train was changing engines. He
stepped up to me, accosting me by name and said : " You don't
Nov., 1907. Cases. 131
remember me, do you?" I confessed that I did not. He said,
"My name is Harris," and reminded me that some years ago
when I was Aide-de-Camp to Gen. Howard, he came to our
Headquarters in S. F. with a letter of introduction from my
brother—and that I gave him a pass on the Government steamer
"M'Dowall" for a trip about the bay. Even then I could not
recall him. He told me he was going up to Grass Valley to look
after some mining interests in a few days and hoped to see me in
S, F. Well, I thought of this man. Presently Mrs. A. said, "His
name is of two syllables—accented on the first"— and then she
asked me to signify assent if it was true—as it seemed to help
her. I therefore said " Yes." After perhaps ten seconds she said,
" It is a name that sounds like ' Parish,' " but, she added quickly,
"That's not it"—a slight pause—"It is Harris." I, much astonished,
said it was—when she added, "And his initials are 'C. H.,'" or
whatever they were (I have now forgotten). I said that I did
not know what his initials were. Then she began to describe the
appearance of Mr. Harris, I assenting as she went on, and her
description was as accurate as I could have given. A day or so
afterwards she and I were going across the Bay to Berkeley to
make a call, and arrived at the ferry depot just too late to catch
the boat, and had to wait for the next one. As we sat in the
waiting-room I saw this Mr. Harris enter, and at once went to
him, shook hands, and brought him over and introduced him to
my sister. I told him of the matter wherein his name figured ;
and before relating that part concerning his initials, I suddenly
said, " By the way, Mr. Harris, what are your initials ? " He
said "C. H.," or whatever they were, but the same ones given by
Mrs. A. It is of course possible and probable that his initials were
upon the letter of introduction, but they were certainly gone from
my conscious memory. Another instance :
Mr. Adam is an Englishman, and generally meets most of his
countrymen of note who pass through S. F., and sometimes brings
them home. One (not sure which) evening at Mrs. A.'s "At
Home" quite a number filled her parlour, and among them a young
Englishman—a stranger Mr. A. had picked up somewhere. The
conversation turned upon the subject of telepathy, and this young
man expressed much doubt of its reality, but begged Mrs. A. to
"see if she could get anything" for him. His hostess good-
naturedly assented, prefacing the attempt with the remark that
she often failed. Taking his hand—many of the company gathering
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
about—after a moment she said, "I get the impression that you
sold a lot to-day to a man, by the name of O'Brien, for 8000
dollars." "Oh," he laughed, "you are away off, for I never owned
a lot, not even one in a graveyard ; if I did, I think sometimes I'd
go and occupy it." "Well," she said, "that's the impression I get."
A lady who was sitting some eight feet from Mrs. Adam arose
quickly and said, "That's the queerest thing that ever happened
to me. / sold a lot to-day to a man by the name of O'Brien for
eight thousand dollars." The faculty, whatever it is, apparently like
other forces, acts or proceeds along the line of least resistance,
and must therefore be like them, natural, and probably vibratory
in its nature. This did not occur in my presence, but several
others have. Mrs. Adam no doubt could furnish corroboration if
addressed at H49 Clay Street, S. F., Cal.
She possesses the faculty of pre-cognition to a wonderful degree.
She is not a spiritualist, quite the reverse ; is intensely prejudiced
against the theory, or used to be ; I have not seen her for two
years.
G. V. CHASE.
COLASI, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, August 15th, 1902.
Dear Doctor,—As you desire some record of my telepathic ex
periences and my own views as to their source, I take pleasure in
sending you the following account which I gathered from old diaries.
I greatly regret that more complete records have not been kept.
In February, 1893, the Olympic Athletic Club of San Francisco
gave a fete for the benefit of its treasury, and I was asked to take
charge of Sybil's booth. I had often read character from physiognomy
and tricks of manner common to certain types, but prior to this I
had never tried telepathy.
After the first evening in the booth I was walking home with a
Britisher named Gadsden (now dead). As we walked along he
said, " You don't really think you can tell anything, do you ? " I
replied that I claimed to have no occult gift whatever. He said,
" No one in this city or in America, for that matter, knows my
birth-place. Could you tell me that, I would believe in telepathic
communication."
After a short silence (during which I was holding his arm) I
said, "Bonchurch in the Isle of Wight comes to me." My com
panion seemed much agitated, and said with surprise, " You are
Nov., 1907. Cases. 133
right, and now I am convinced that you have some peculiar
power."
" Well," I replied, " I thought of Ventnor first, so you see I was
only guessing."
"Still more wonderful," said Gadsden, "for I was born ten miles
from the coast midway between Bonchurch and Ventnor. I chose
the question as being one impossible for you to answer unless you
could read my mind."
Now, I look on that as a good case of pure mind-reading. I
took courage from this experience, and during the rest of the fete
I intrepidly read the past and future of those who came to my
booth, and often with startling success, which I attribute, in part,
to my own self-assurance.
Since 1893 I have told thousands of "fortunes" by impressions,
and probably been successful with seventy-five out of a hundred.
The greater number of trials have been with contact, though trials
without contact, while on the whole not so successful, have some
times given striking results.
Two years ago, at an evening at home, I was trying to get
telepathic results for one of my guests. A strange lady, whom
one of my friends had brought with her, was sitting behind me.
I told the gentleman whose mind I was trying to read, that he
had that day sold a piece of land to a man named O'Brien. He
replied that I was wrong, as he had no land to sell. The stranger
(a lady from Chicago whom I had never met before) said, " That
is very strange, for / sold a piece of land to-day to a man named
O'Brien."
There was in this case no personal contact.
One day during the Spanish-American war, my nephew, Mr. Chase,
and I were watching the departure of some troops for the front
from the steps of a private residence. Just below us sat a little
woman with a faded shawl over her shoulders. I had a strong
impression about her, and told my nephew to ask her if her name
was not Smith, and if she was not born in Dumfries, Scotland.
Mr. Chase asked her name and the place of her birth, to which
she answered, "Mary Smith, and I was born in Dumfries."
There was no contact in this case, but in the following the young
woman was brushing my hair at the time.
I was once visiting a family named Randall, at Hustisford, Wis.,
and was rather attracted to a pretty servant girl who used to help
me with my hair. One day while she was with me I had a strong
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
impression concerning her, and asked her if her grandfather was
not killed while crossing a river. She said she thought not, at
least she had never heard of it. That night she went home to
her mother (the daughter of a German pioneer), returning the
next day very much excited, and saying that her mother had told
her it was true ; that her grandfather had been killed by the
Indians while crossing the river with a boat-load of skins. The girl
had no doubt heard the story in her childhood, but had forgotten it.
I have often turned to travelling companions and told them the
month and place of their birth and have generally succeeded in
getting their names. But in getting names I usually begin with
the number of syllables, place the accent, get the initials, and then
the whole name. This mode of procedure would lay me open to
the charge of "fishing," and my own experience has shown me
that where the " subject " was naturally very secretive, I have
depended upon clues received in this way. With a good "subject"
however this is not necessary, and the name generally comes to
me immediately.
In 1897 I was introduced to a gentleman at the Savoy Hotel in
San Francisco. His wife wished me to try and get his middle
name. Upon taking his hand and closing my eyes I saw a large
P and thought of an old friend whose name was Pettigrew. I
told the gentleman that his middle name was Pettigrew, and was
not surprised to have my guess confirmed. It is an interesting
fact that the names of friends often help me to get the names of
strangers.
A few weeks ago the local telegraph operator asked me to tell
him the names of his father and mother. The operator's name is
Patteson. I took his hand, and immediately thought of a family
of Pattersons whom I had known in girlhood. The head of the
house was named William and his wife was named Jane. I
accordingly told the operator that his father's name was William
and his mother's name was either Jane or Jenney, to which he
assented. (I add his testimony below.) These coincidences are of
so frequent an occurrence that they have ceased to astonish me.
As to the sources of my impressions, I will say that I fully
believe telepathy accounts for many but not all. I find that so
constant a practice has developed my powers of observation and
induction so that I have grown to depend upon them more and
more. Reading of individual character drawn from a general
knowledge of the type represented has always been a great aid to
Nov., 1907. Cases. 135
me. Moreover I believe that the "fishing" process may become so
subtile and so habitual, that, coupled with a good observation and
powers of rapid induction, it may be used unconsciously. And I
have found that the majority of people are oblivious of those slight
-clues which they invariably give me.
A middle-aged woman, having a South German accent, came to
me at a Church Fair where I had a booth. I noticed that she
looked like a Luxemberg woman I had known in Europe, that
she smelled slightly of carbolic acid, and that she had the assured
air of one who earns her living. I also noted the inevitable marks
of worry on her countenance.
I told her that she was born in Luxemberg, was a widow, a
professional supporting two daughters, one an invalid, and that
she had been brought up in the Catholic faith, to all of which
she gave a wondering assent. Why she should have had two children
instead of three I don't know, but all the rest was arrived at
by observation and induction.
A short time prior to Feb. 1893 I had some heart trouble, but
with that exception I have always had the best of health. When
a girl I was often followed on the street by both men and women
who later told me that they could not help it. And once at a
.theatre I was admiring a lady's gown through my opera glasses.
A few moments later the lady in question came to where I was
seated and said that she was dominated by an impulse that she
could not explain. MEDORA C. ADAM.
Messrs. J. C. Chase and Patteson corroborate Mrs. Adam's
account :
I remember the episode related above by Mrs. Adam. During
the war with Spain we were watching the troops from a neighbor's
steps. My aunt told me that she had an impression regarding a
woman just below her, and thought her name was Smith and that
she was born in Dumfries. I asked the woman referred to and
verified my aunt's impression. I do not think it possible that
Mrs. Adam could have been acquainted with these facts.
J. C. CHASE.
Mrs. Adam told me that my father's name was William and my
mother's name was Jenney, which was true. As Mrs. Adam is a
stranger to me it would have been impossible for her to have
learned these facts in any way.
LEWIS W. PATTESON,
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
L. 1165. Dreams.
The following case was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mr.
Marshall Wait, an associate of the American branch. Accounts
of the dreams (there were two) were related before the facts
were known. In the first there was approximate coincidence
in time. It will be seen that Mrs. Porter's dreams of an
accident to her son are confirmed by her daughter and son-in-
law, who heard of the dreams before the real accident was.
known to them. Mr. Wait writes :
5144 MADISON AVE., CHICAGO, January 28, 1901.
My dear Dr. Hodgson,—The enclosed statement of a repeated
telepathic dream is procured for me by Mr. Le Roy R. Millner,
a son-in-law of the percipient, Mrs. Porter. Mr. Millner has been
employed in the same office with me for a number of years, and
as we are in the same department, we have become quite well
acquainted. I have also met Mrs. Millner and Dr. Porter, the
agent in the case, and talked over the case with the latter pre
paratory to his writing me out a statement. They are all intelligent,
educated, and conscientious people. I did not consider it necessary
to see Mrs. Porter personally, as Mr. Millner takes considerable
interest in Psychical Research, has read some of our publications,
and understands what is necessary to make a case useful for us.
Mr. Millner told me of the dreams very soon after their occurrence,
and intended to procure the statements for me at once, but Mrs.
Porter's husband died very suddenly a short time after, and as
she was already in a nervous condition from recent illness, Mr.
Millner was unwilling to trouble her about the matter until
recently.
Dr. Porter sent me a rough draft of his statement to see if it
was what I wished, but asked for its return so that he might put
it in more formal shape. The re-written statement he handed to-
Mr. Millner, who has unfortunately mislaid it, but he has applied
to Dr. Porter to again write it out, and the latter has promised
to do so. Dr. Porter says that he came to Chicago the day of
Mrs. Porter's dream. There was a celebration of some kind, either
a " Peace Jubilee " or a " Dewey Celebration," I have forgotten
which. There was a bicycle parade the first night of the celebra
tion. Dr. Porter took a cab at the station, but found it impossible
to pass the streets where the crowd had gathered, so dismissed his
cab and stood watching the parade. He has no recollection of his
Nov., 1907. Oases. 137
accident, but supposes that he was thrown down and trampled, as
he found himself early next morning wandering around the streets
of the North Side looking for the house of Dr. Nicholas Senn,
with whom he studied medicine. He was painfully, though not
dangerously, cut about the head, and, I think, had to go to a
hospital for a couple of days. As he had come to Chicago quite
unexpectedly, he had not notified his relatives, and as his head was
covered with bandages he feared to shock his mother in her nervous
condition, and so returned to Kalamazoo without going to see her,
and from there wrote the first account of his accident. I believe
a closer time relation between the accident and the first dream
cannot be established, as Mrs. Porter took no special note of the
time of her dream, and Dr. Porter does not know at what hour
he was injured. I will forward Dr. Porter's statement as soon as I
receive it.—Yours truly,
MARSHALL WAIT.
Mrs. Porter writes (her daughter, Mrs. Millner, also signing
the account) :
No. 299 CEYLON AVE., CHICAGO, Jany. 19, 1901.
On the evening of October 7, 1899, my daughter, Mrs. Millner,
and her husband went down town to see the bicycle parade,
leaving me at home with the children. While they were gone I
dreamed a very distressing dream about my son Guy (who was
living in Kalamazoo), in which I saw him hurt in some way. When
I woke the details of the dream were indistinct in my memory,
but the painful impression was very strong, although I am not a
believer in dreams, and am accustomed to pay no attention to
them.
When Mr. and Mrs. Millner returned about 11 o'clock, I
mentioned to Mrs. Millner that I had had " such a miserable dream
about Guy," telling her the particulars as far as I remembered
them. A few nights after I again dreamed of my son, and this
time I distinctly saw him drawn out of a crowd of people and
badly cut. This dream I also told to Mrs. Millner before its veri
fication. The next morning I received a letter from my son, by
which I learned that he had come to Chicago on the day of the
bicycle parade and had met with a painful accident, being badly
cut about the head ; that he had gone to the house of a physician
of his acquaintance, where his wounds were dressed, and that as
his head was covered with bandages, he had returned to Kalamazoo
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
without coming to see me, fearing to shock me,' as I had recently
been in poor health.
Mrs. Millner signs this with me in attestation of the fact that I
told her of my dreams before their verification.
K. B. PORTER.
MYRA B. MILLNER.
Mr. Marshall Wait supplied the subjoined further details :
5144 MADISON AVE., CHICAGO, Feb. 20, 1901.
DR. R. HODGSON.
Dear Sir,—Enclosed herewith I forward you Dr. Porter's state
ment in the matter of his mother's telepathic dreams. The " Wm.
G. Porter " of his statement is, of course, the " Guy Porter " of
Mrs. Porter's account. Dr. Porter always signs his full name, but
is habitually called in the family by his middle name, Guy. . . .
The letters which passed between Dr. Porter and his mother
have been destroyed, but I have succeeded in establishing a little
closer time relation between the accident and the first dream. Mrs.
Porter authorises me to say that she remembers that Mr. and
Mrs. Millner came home that evening a little after eleven, and
that she had been in bed but a short time when they came, so
that the dream occurred between ten and eleven o'clock, and cer
tainly not before ten. You will see by the enclosed letter of Dr.
Porter that he fixes the accident at very near ten o'clock. . . .
MARSHALL WAIT.
Dr. Porter's statement was as follows :
2057 WILOOX AVE., CHICAGO. ILL., Feb. %th, 1901.
To whom it may concern :
On October 7th, 1899, I left Kalamazoo, Michigan, about 4.30 p.m.
over the Michigan Central E. R., arriving in Chicago, 111., at
8 o'clock. I took a hack from the depot, intending to drive to
the Briggs Hotel. Our progress was stopped near State and Madi
son Streets, by the crowd attending the bicycle parade of the Street
Carnival then in progress. Owing to the intense jam I was forced
to remain at the corner of State and Madison Streets until after
the parade had passed. When the crowd broke up there was a
severe crush, during which I lost my footing and was trampled,
sustaining severe injuries about the head. I wandered about the
city in a dazed condition a considerable portion of the night, and
at five o'clock the following morning found myself on the north
side, several miles from where I was hurt. I inquired for and was
Nov., 1907. Cases. 13.9
directed to the residence of Dr. Nicholas Senn, the surgeon, who
sent me to St. Joseph's Hospital, where my wounds were dressed
at 9 o'clock. I passed the next day at a hotel (the Briggs House)
and did not communicate with my relatives, fearing lest my bad
appearance and bandaged head might prove a shock to my mother,
who was in a very low physical condition at the time. I returned
to Kalamazoo on the following afternoon, and was in bed about
two weeks. On my partial recovery I wrote my mother of the
accident in response to a letter from her, in which she stated that
she had a dream on the night of the 7th of October, to the effect
that I was hurt and in trouble. This letter to my mother was the
first actual knowledge she had either of my trip to Chicago or my
injury. I also understand from her that she had another dream
the night before she received my letter, in which she saw me
drawn from a crowd wounded and bleeding.
My injuries consisted of severe cuts and bruises on the face and
neck, which bled freely. I sustained a slight concussion of the
brain, which was overcome by two weeks of quiet.
My trip to Chicago was made suddenly and without notification
to any of my relatives or friends. My mother's first dream coincided
with the date on which I was hurt, and her second dream coincided
with the day on which my letter to her was mailed. She received
it, I believe, the following day. WM. G. PORTER, M.D.
Mr. Wait also obtained corroboration from Mr. Millner as
follows :
CHICAGO, ILL.
I heard of both of Mrs. Porter's dreams of her son's accident
before their verification from my wife, but not from Mrs. Porter
herself. LE ROY MILLNER.
Dr. Porter wrote to Mr. Wait later :
2057 WILCOX AVK, CITY, Feb. 19, 1901.
MARSHALL WAIT, ESQ.,
108 La Salle St., City.
Dear Sir,—Answering your letter of yesterday as to time of the
accident, it is a fact that the end of the parade had passed me by
10 o'clock. The crowd immediately broke up, and it was then I
was hurt. Of course, I did not pay any attention to details at the
time, but it is safe to assert that the accident to me occurred within
a few minutes of 10 p.m.—Yours respectfully,
W. G. POUTER.
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
L. 1166. Dream.
Mrs. "W. Pool dreamed that her brother, Mr. H. W.
Caldwell, was dead ; she told her husband her dream in the
morning, and later a telegram announces his death. Mr.
Caldwell had not been ill.
Mrs, Pool wrote to Dr. Hodgson :
SANTA KOSA, CAL., Jan. 2±th, 1905.
Dear Sir,—Your letter of the 17th inst. at hand. I will gladly
tell you everything about the dream mentioned in the papers.
Monday night (Jan. 2nd) I dreamed that the local undertaker
here brought the dead body of my brother, Huntley Wells Caldwell,
into my house in a coffin. I saw him (my brother) very distinctly
in the dream. The coffin seemed to be open, and I saw his still
white form as they carried him into the house.
In the morning I told my husband about the dream, but he only
laughed, saying : " Perhaps Huntly would get married, as dreams
usually go by contraries."
Then about nine o'clock he left the house for his office, and
about fifteen minutes after his departure the telegram came,
announcing the death of my brother.
I dressed hurriedly and hastened to the office to show the tele
gram to Mr. Pool, and the first words he uttered were : " Mercy !
that's your dream."
I left here on the afternoon train for Los Angeles, as my brother
was buried there. He died suddenly without any illness. His
death occurred Monday night, and I received the telegram Tuesday
morning.
(Signed) MRS. WM. H. POOL.
Mr. Pool wrote to Dr. Hodgson :
SANTA KOSA, CAL., Aug. 7th, 1905.
Dear Sir,—Referring to yours of the 27th ult., wherein you ask
me to give you a few lines in confirmation of the facts concerning
the most remarkable dream Mrs. Pool had the night before she
received the telegram informing her of her brother's death at Los
Angeles, some four hundred miles south of this city—the facts as
I remember them are as follows :
Mrs. Pool, upon arising in the morning about seven o'clock,
related to me that she had dreamed that her brother (Huntley Wells
Caldwell) had died, and that she saw distinctly the undertaker, a
Mr, Stanley, bringing the body into the parlour enclosed in a
Nov., 1907. Cases. 141
casket. The dream seemed to impress her very much, but I, being
sceptical of such matters as dreams " coming true," passed the
incident with the remark that, as dreams have the opposite meaning,
probably Huntley was to be married. As customary, I went to
my office here, and shortly after arriving there, about 9 o'clock
a.m., Mrs. Pool rushed in and tossed the telegram upon my desk,
saying: "It is true! It is true! He is dead." Upon taking up
the telegram, I read : " Huntley died last night. Mamma."
Huntley Wells Caldwell was a writer of much talent, and wrote
under the nom de plume of "Huntley C. Wells," and some of his
recent articles were upon the Mormon question, and were published
in the New York papers, the World being one of them, I believe.
He was a strong believer in psychological phenomena, and firmly
believed that telepathy was not a fiction. Mrs. Pool also coincided
to a certain extent with his ideas in these matters. The writer
however having his time much occupied with business matters, has
not studied along these lines, but must confess that this dream, if
not a strong testimonial of the beliefs held by Mrs. Pool and her
brother, was indeed a most remarkable coincidence.
WILLIAM H. POOL.
Further letter from Mrs. Pool to Dr. Hodgson :
SANTA ROSA, CAL., Aug. 12ih, 1905.
Dear Sir,—Your letter of July 27th received, which I handed
to my husband to answer. He has written what he remembers of
the circumstances connected with the dream I had about my
brother's death, and I enclose the same to you.
There are a few little incidents that occurred a short time
before his death that may be of interest to you, and which I
believe I did not mention in my previous letter. For about two
weeks (or perhaps a little longer) before he died I had an un
accountable desire to dress in black. Many times when I would
go to the closet to select a dress something seemed to urge me to
select a black one. One day I unconsciously dressed myself entirely
in black, and did not notice it until about half a block from the
house. Then, with something of a shock, I realised I was dressed
in mourning. Black from head to foot ! I turned back home, and
removed a black ribbon I had around my neck, and replaced it
with a bright-coloured one; but I remained- depressed all day. I
seemed to come to myself with a shock when I noticed the black
garments. Unconsciously I had selected every article black ; that
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
is, I did not notice it as I put them on. And for many days
before he died the first garment to come to my hand would be a
black one. This rather annoyed me at times, as I do not care for
black ; but I never for a moment connected these things with any
future events. I simply look back to them now.
Another thing. About a week before he died I was lying in
bed quite wakeful—could not go to sleep, in fact (a very unusual
occurrence for me, as I sleep well). I had been lying wide awake
for some time when all at once I had the most dreadful sensation
pass through me. It seemed to be a horrible chill, a feeling like
ice that seemed to pass through my whole body, and make me
quiver from head to foot. It was almost an agony, so horrible was
it while it lasted. At the same time I cried out: "Oh! Huntley!"
The next day, while busy with my household duties, I had the
same sensation ; but I did not utter his name. Both times that
terrible sensation left ine very weak, almost exhausted, although it
lasted only a few minutes.
I cannot find the telegram I received from Mamma announcing
my brother's death, although I have spent several days looking for
it. But should I come across it at any time I will send it to you.
I remain, sincerely yours, (Signed) MRS. WM. H. POOL.
L. 1167. Dream.
The following case is that of a premonitory dream. It
was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mr. G. W. C. Krebs. The dream
was related on the morning after it took place to the mother
and grandmother of the child to whom it referred. The
fulfilment occurred about a fortnight later.
The weak point is that the child was evidently in the
habit of crossing a dangerous street without supervision, and
the uncle may have noticed this.
The subjoined letter of Mr. Krebs has three corroborative
signatures attached :
BALTIMORE, Nov. 2tth, 1902.
Dear Doctor,—In response to your favor of the 18th enclosing
cutting describing an alleged premonitory dream by Charles Nolte
of this city, and requesting me to make inquiries about the case,
I send the following as the result of my investigation :
Mr. Charles Nolte, residing at 1503 Bank Street, an intelligent
Nov., 1907. Cases. 143
man of about twenty-five years of age, who has charge of a machine
in the large packing box factory of J. H. Thiemeyer & Co. on
Caroline Street, one night about the first part of November had a
very vivid and distressing dream.
In this dream the following scene occurred : while on his return
from work in the afternoon, about 5.30 o'clock, he distinctly saw
his sister's little daughter Helen, a very sweet and bright child of
three summers, a special favorite of her grandmother Mrs. Nolte,
crossing the street in front of her own home, 408 S. Caroline Street,
on her way to see her grandma, apparently in the best of health,
active, sprightly and full of glee as usual. At the same time, to
liis horror, Mr. Nolte saw a rapidly approaching trolley car, of
which she appeared to be entirely unaware. In his anguish at her
perilous situation, he could only call out to warn her, being unable
to move a muscle, and completely paralysed for the instant, strong
man though he was, and compelled to witness a scene he would
cheerfully have risked his life to prevent.
Unnerved and distressed, he then awoke, greatly relieved to find
it was only a dream.
The first thing he did in the morning, after leaving his room,
was to relate the terrible dream to his mother, who was so
impressed with the recital that she immediately went over to her
daughter's, Mrs. John Liebig, and, after relating the dream, insisted
that her grandchild should have extra care taken of her, so that
no harm could possibly befall the little one.
Accident: on Thursday afternoon, November 13th, at 5.30 o'clock
as Mrs. John Liebig's little daughter 'Helen, aged three years, was
crossing the street in front of her home, on her way to her grand
mother's, she was struck by a trolley car, and in a few minutes
thereafter expired. A colored woman who was near heard the
child call out just before the car struck her, " Oh grandma ! "—
Yours respectfully,
GEO. W. C. KREBS, Associate.
The above account of the dream and accident is perfectly
correct.
Witness, GEO. W. C. KREBS. (Signed) CHAS. NOLTE.
(Signed) DINA NOLTE.
(Signed) MRS. J. LIEBIG.
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1907.
COEEESPONDENCE.
CHALET KETTERER, CLARENS, SWITZERLAND,
IQth October, 1907.
DEAR SIR,—In this month's Journal, under heading " The Arens-
burg Poltergeist," I read with reference to Count Petrovo-Solovovo's
" Explanation " (?), " The explanation offered seems to account
satisfactorily for all the facts of the case."
The writer of this paragraph cannot surely have read Dale Owen's
account, or he would scarcely have made such a statement.
1st. The occurrences took place in the middle of summer, not in
autumn or spring, when the " Griindwasser " wells up.
2nd. This marvellous water, No. 1, must have made appearance
and disappearance during the short period between the burial and
the first discover}' of coffin confusion, " by 3 or 4 of those who had
been present."
Appearance and disappearance of the flood in the vault, No. 2,
between above visit and that of Baron Guldenstubbe, who found
" the coffins again in the same disorder."
Then follow elaborate precautions ; doors of vault locked and
sealed, fine ashes strewed over the pavement of the vault, and on the
stairs leading down to it; setting of a guard, etc. After three days'
interval, appearance and disappearance, No. 3, of the Griindwasser.
It will be observed that there is never any mention of wet
in the vault, and the ashes which lay spread at the level of the
vault floor were in their normal state. Residents in the island must
have known all about "Griindwasser"; and had there been any
sign of it, would have surely referred to it as a possible explanation.
"Griindwasser" cannot account for the strange terror of horses
in the vicinity. Cases innumerable could be pointed out, going to
prove that animals are possessed of second sight or an extra sense,
which reveals the grisly supernormal to them, when human beings
see nothing.
Finally, the noises heard in the vault, and which first attracted
attention to it, with the horse-fright, can hardly be accounted for by
rising water displacement of the coffins, which would be more or
less noiseless and gradual, unless a modified maelstrom is supposed
to have been at work in the vault.
As a humble student of metapsychic phenomena one is, of course,
familiar with " explanations " of all kinds re supernormal phenomena.
These " explanations " generally assume the witnesses of inexplicable
phenomena to be devoid of the simplest powers of correct observation.
But the above explanation goes one better than most I have come
across, in its sublime indifference to the trammels of circumstance.
I can only suppose that Count Petrovo-Solovovo was ignorant of
the circumstances, or that he was actuated by a pardonable desire
to close an incident obnoxious to the Buxhoewden family. " The
matter had been hushed up at the time through the influence of the
family." (K.D.O. Footfalls, bottom page 181, "Light" Publ. Coy.
edition.)—I am, sir, yours faithfully, F. M. GOVETT.
No. CCXLIV.—VOL. XIII. DECEMBER, 1907.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGK
Notice of Meeting, 145
New Members and Associates, 146
Council Meeting, 147
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 147
Memorial to Mr. Myers at, Cheltenham College, - - ' - - - 148
Cases, 153
Correspondence, 158
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDA Y, DECEMBER ijtk, 1907, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A case of Cross-Correspondence between
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall,"
WILL BE READ BY
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
BAYNES, WILLIAM EDWARD COLSTON, Turf Club, Cairo.
Beattie, J. H., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
BENTHAM, MRS., 30 Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
BICKFORD-SMITH, R. A. H., F.S.A., 29 Ladbroke Grove, London, W.
BROOKE, E. G. DE CAPELL, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
DAMANT, MRS. H. C., Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
DARRAH, HENRY ZOUCH, Junior Carlton Club, London, S.W.
FARQUHARSON, L. H., Timekeeping Office, Panama Eailway Co.,
Colon, Republic of Panama.
Gaskell, Mrs. Francis, 98 Portland Place, London, W.
GIDDINGS, Miss H. M., 810-11 New England Building, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
GIDNEY, ALEC RALPH, Aylsham, Norfolk.
HAWLEY, STANLEY, 19 Oxford Mansions, Oxford Circus, London, W.
HOFFMEISTER, MRS. W., Clifton House, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
HOWE, GEORGE B., 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
LABOUCHERE, THE REV. J. A., Sculthorpe Rectory, Fakenham.
Lawther, Robert Allen, Constitutional Club, London, W.C.
THE LIBRARIAN, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
MORRIS, NORMAN, 12 Old Court House Street, Calcutta, India.
PLOWDEN-WARDLAW, JAMES, M.A., The Cottage, Edenbridge, Kent.
POPE, DR. CARLYLE, 1110 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
POPE, Miss THEODATE, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
PORTER, Miss AGATHA, M.D., 18 Kensington Park Road, Netting
Hill, London, W.
Smith, W. Easton, 132 Grove Street, Waterbury, Conn., U.S.A.
SPEAR, JOHN A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Morro Velho, Villa Nova de
Lima, Minas, Brazil.
STEBBINS, CHARLES L., 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Trimborn, Joseph, Durban, Natal, South Africa.
TRIMNELL, Miss H. L., 3 Talfourd Terrace, Hawley Road, Dartford.
Whittlemore, Mrs. J. H., Nangatuck, Conn., U.S.A.
Deo., 1907. Private Meeting. 147
Woods, Mrs., The Master's House, Temple, London, E.G.
YOUNG, G. P., Burnside Cottage, Colston, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow.
YOUNGHUSBAND, SIR FRANCIS, The Residency, Kashmir, India.
COUNCIL MEETING.
The 87th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, November 7th, 1907, at
3 p.m. ; Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Crookes, the Hon.
Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. ,T. G. Piddington,
Mr. St. G. L. Fox-Pitt, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
Lieut.-Colonel Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W.
Verrall, Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Mr. R. A. H.
Bickford-Smith, Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Seven new Members and twenty-four new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for July, August, and September, and
for October were presented and read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 20th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only
was held in the large hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.,
on Thursday, November 7th, 1907 at 4 p.m.; Sir Oliver Lodge
in the chair.
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON read a paper entitled " A First
lieport on Cross-Correspondence Experiments with Mrs. Piper
and other Automatists." The paper is not summarised here,
as it will be continued at the next Meeting, and printed in
full later.
Amongst those who took part in the discussion which
followed were Mr. Calderon, Mr. Constable, Sir Lawrence Jones,
the Rev. J. W. Hayes, and Mr. Fox-Pitt.
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907.
MEMORIAL TO MR. MYERS AT CHELTENHAM
COLLEGE.
THE members of the Society will be glad to hear that the
Memorial to Mr. Myers proposed early last year, of which an
account appeared in the Journal for May, 1906, has been
completed.
On All Saints' Day, November 1st last, a memorial and
dedication service was held in the College Chapel. There was
a crowded congregation of subscribers to the Memorial and past
and present students of the College. Among those present
were Mrs. F. W. H. Myers, Miss Myers, Mr. L. H. Myers,
Mr. Ernest Myers, Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge, General Sir
Eeginald and Lady Hart, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce-Pryce, Mr. L.
Gumming (Rugby), Mr. D. Amphlett (Edgbaston), Miss Sturge
(Ladies' College), Mr. A. S. Owen (Oxford), and Eev. A. T.
Fryer (Cardiff).
Sir Oliver Lodge delivered an address on " The Communion
of Saints," which he denned as " a fellowship of all the beings
who help and love each other ; some of them known to us,
others at present unknown."
If any man had profound and living belief in this doctrine
{he said) it was the man whom we are now commemorating,
in whose honour a Memorial has been erected by friends in
this place of early study, and whose spirit is certainly with
us this day.
At one time, to his sceptical mind, annihilation seemed the
probable doom both of the individual and of the race ; and
it was his instinctive rebellion against any such ghastly con
clusion that constituted the motive power which so greatly
influenced contemporaries, and has probably left an impress
upon the world for all time. It became his life study to find
a scientific proof of the immortality of the soul, and thus to
vindicate the meaning and intention of the Creator.
Such scientific proof, in his own judgment and in the judg
ment of some of his co-workers, he was ultimately privileged
to find. By critical and comprehensive and truly scientific
study of weird and ultra-normal facts in human nature, which
he strung together and illustrated in an ingenious and powerful
Deo., 1907. Memorial to Mr. Myers. 149
manner, he gradually rose, after years of doubt and hesitation,
to a sublime and living faith in the divine ordering of the
universe and its harmony with the highest aspirations of man.
This belief was based in the first instance on the results of
scientific investigation, but it ascended into the atmosphere
of religion itself; and by its beacon light it did much to
kindle a like faith and enthusiasm among the ranks of those
who otherwise might have held aloof from an unpopular and
apparently unpromising region of inquiry.
I shall now speak largely for myself, and try to represent
very briefly our present position with respect to a surviving
personal existence. I want to make the distinct assertion that
no really existing thing perishes, but only changes its form.
Physical science teaches us this clearly enough concerning matter
and energy—the two great entities with which it has to do.
And there is no likelihood of any great modification in this
teaching. It may, perhaps, be induced in the long run to
modify the form of statement and to assert conservation and
real existence of Ether and Motion—or, perhaps, of only Ether
in motion—rather than of matter and energy. That is quite
possible ; but the apparent variation of statement is only a
variant in form ; its essence and meaning are the same, except
that it is now more general, and would allow even the atoms
of matter themselves to have their day and cease to be—being
resolved, perhaps, into electricity, and that into some hitherto
unimagined mode of motion of the ether. But these details
need not here be considered. The distinction between what
is temporary and what is permanent is quite clear. Evanes
cence is to be stated concerning every kind of " system " and
aggregation and grouping. A crowd assembles and then it.
disperses ; it is a crowd no more. A cloud forms in the sky,
and soon once more the sky is blue again ; the cloud has died.
Dew forms on a leaf, a little while and it has gone again—
gone, apparently, into nothingness like the cloud. But we
know better. In an imperceptible form it was, and soon into
an imperceptible form it will again have passed, but meanwhile
there is the dewdrop glistening in the sun, reflecting all the
movements of the neighbouring world and contributing its
little share to the beauty and the serviceableness of creation.
Its perceptible or incarnate existence is temporary. As a
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907.
drop it was born, and as a drop it dies ; but as aqueous
vapour it persists, an intrinsically imperishable natural sub
stance. Even it, therefore, has the attribute of immortality.
So, then, what about life ? Can that be a nonentity which
has built up particles of carbon and hydrogen and oxygen
into the form of an oak or an eagle or a man ? Is it some
thing which is really nothing, and soon shall it be manifestly
the nothing that an ignorant and purblind creature may suppose
it to be ? Not so, nor is it so with mind and consciousness
and will, nor with memory and love and adoration, nor all the
manifold activities which at present strangely interact with
matter and appeal to our bodily senses and terrestrial know
ledge ; they are not nothing, nor shall they ever vanish into
nothingness or cease to be. They did not arise with us, they
never did spring into being, they are as eternal as the Godhead
itself, and in the Eternal Being they shall endure for ever. But,
then, what about personality, individuality, our own character
and self? Are those things akin to the temporary groupings
which shall be dissolved, or are they among the substantial
realities that shall endure ?
Even the life of an insect or a tree may, in some sort—must,
as I think, in some sort—persist, but surely not its personal
character ! Why not ? Because it has none. I cannot imagine
that such a thing has any individuality or personality ; it
appears to us to be merely one of a group, a mere unit in
a world of being, without personality of its own. At any rate,
that is what I shall assume ; and it is clear that what does
not exist will not persist. How can it ? We may at once
admit that for all those things which only share in a general
life, that general life will return undifferentiated and unidentified
to its central store : just as happens in the better understood
categories of matter and energy.
That is simple enough. But suppose that some individual
character, some personality, does exist : suppose that not only
life, but intellect and emotion and consciousness and will are
all associated with a certain physical organism ; and suppose
that these things have a real and undeniable existence, an
existence strengthened and compacted by experience and suffer
ing and joy, till it is no longer only a member of the material
aggregate in which for a time it is embodied, but belongs to
Dec., 1907. Memorial to Mr. Myers. 1 51
a universe of spirit closely related to immanent and tran
scendent Deity : what then ? If all that really exists is
immortal, we have only to ask whether our personality, our
character, our self, is sufficiently individual, sufficiently charac
teristic, sufficiently developed, sufficiently real ; for if it is,
there can then be no doubt of its continuance.
In a remarkable book on the Philosophy of Religion, Professor
Hoffding, of Copenhagen, develops a theory of importance, which
he calls the conservation of value. He teaches that what he
calls the axiom of " the conservation of value " is the funda
mental ingredient in all religions—the foundation without which
none of them could stand. In his view, as a philosopher,
agreeing therein with Browning and other poets, no real value
or good is ever lost. The whole progress and course of evolution
is to increase and intensify the valuable—that which " avails "
or is serviceable for highest purposes—and it does so by bring
ing out that which was potential or latent so as to make it
actual and real. Eeal it was no doubt all the time in some
sense, as an oak is implicit in an acorn, or a flower in a bud,
but in process of time it unfolds itself and adds to the value
of the universe. This is the meaning of evolution.
Value must either be conserved, says Professor Hoffding, or
it must increase. Our experience of evolution suggests that
it must increase. Certainly it passes from latent to more
manifest forms ; and though it sometimes swings back, yet, on
the whole, progress seems upward. Is it not legitimate to
conjecture that while matter and energy are conserved—neither
increasing nor decreasing, but only changing in form—and while
life, too, perhaps, is constant in quantity, though alternating
into and out of incarnation according as material vehicles are
put together or worn out, yet that some of the higher attributes
of existence—love, shall we say, joy perhaps, what may be
generalised as good generally, or as availability or value—may
actually increase ; their apparent alternations being really the
curves of an upward tending spiral ? It is an optimistic faith,
but it is the faith of the poets and seers. Whatever evil days
may fall upon an individual or a nation, or even sometimes on
a whole planet, yet the material is subordinate to the spiritual;
and if the spiritual persists, it cannot be stationary: it must
surely rise in the scale of existence. From this point of view
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907.
the law of evolution is that Good shall on the whole increase
in the universe, with the process of the suns : that immortality
itself is a special case of a more general law—namely, that in
the whole universe nothing really finally perishes that is worth
keeping, that a thing once attained is not thrown away. There
is no real waste, no real loss, no annihilation ; but everything
sufficiently valuable, be it personality, beauty, artistic achieve
ment, knowledge, unselfish affection, endures henceforth and for
ever, not only with an individual and personal existence, but
as part of the eternal Being of God.
Whether or not this incipient theory of the conservation
of value stand the test of criticism, it is undeniable that seers
do not hesitate to attribute permanence and timeless existence
to the essential element in man himself. You remember the
eloquent words of Carlyle :
" What, then, is man ? What, then, is man ? He endures
for but an hour, and is crushed before the moth. Yet in the
being and in the working of a faithful man is there already
(as all faith, from the beginning, gives assurance), a something
that pertains not to this wild death-element of Time ; that
triumphs over Time, and is, and will be, when Time shall be
no more."
For, ai'ter all, there is a unity running through the universe,
and a kinship between the human and the divine. " All
omens," says Myers, " point towards the steady continuance
of just such labour as has already taught us all we know.
Perhaps, indeed, in this complex of interpenetrating spirits our
own effort is no individual, no transitory, thing. That which
lies at the root of each of us lies at the root of the Cosmos,
too. Our struggle is the struggle of the universe itself; and
the very Godhead finds fulfilment through our upward-striving
souls " (Myers' Human Personality).
Eeverting to his previous words that Friendship and Faculty
will survive bodily death and affection bridge the chasm, Sir
Oliver concluded with an exposition of the deceased's investi
gations into the problem, culminating in his belief that this
life is but a stage towards a higher life, a type of which may
yet be seen upon this earth.
Dec., 1907. Oas«S. 153
CASES.
L. 1168. Dreams.
The following case was also sent to Dr. Hodgson by an
acquaintance of his, whose name as well as those of his friends
is suppressed for obvious reasons. Mrs. C. dreamed two nights
running that Mrs. A. was trying to induce her (Mrs. A.'s)
husband to lend money to Mr. B. ; she wrote to Mrs. A.
warning her to desist. Mr. B. was unknown to Mrs. C.
DR. HODGSON'S informant wrote :
NEW YORK, Mar. 20, '93.
My dear Sir,—I am a member of the Society for Psychical Research,
and have followed your work for some time with much interest.
I am a sceptic but a seeker after knowledge.
Many strange tales reach me, which I have usually been able to
attribute to diseased brains.
I present you herewith a story which differs from any that I
have yet heard. One distinguishing feature is that there is docu
mentary evidence available to prove the truth of the essential parts.
Moreover 'it is of very recent occurrence.
Mr. A. is a gentleman of unquestioned character and standing.
I have known him well for twenty years. He is unusually careful
in his statements—is not given to any "isms," and is not a believer
in spiritualism. I have his permission to give you this story to be
used as you see fit, upon the condition that no names shall be given
except to you personally.
If an interview with him is desired, an appointment can doubtless
be made by addressing me. Mr. A. has written to the lady in
Colorado asking on what nights the dream occurred. You will
notice from the dates given that there is a fair presumption that
they occurred on the nights of March 9th and 10th or llth, the
precise nights when Mrs. A. was most intently considering the
proposed loan.
As far as Mr. A. knows, neither Mr. B. nor Mrs. C. so much as
knows of the existence of the other. Mr. A. says that he knows
Mrs C. to be a lady of the very highest character.
The following general statement of the case was enclosed in
the above :
March 9th, 1893, Mr. A. (a business man engaged in business in
New York) received a letter from a friend (Mr. B.) dated 8th,
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907.
asking for a considerable loan required to relieve his business from
embarrassment. Mr. A. took the letter to his house in a suburban
town, and showed it to his wife on the evening of the 9th, asking
her advice. Between the desire on one hand to oblige a friend,
and on the other reluctance to risk a large sum of money, the
subject became one of serious importance and consideration for
some days.
Mrs. A. has a friend living in Colorado, whom we will call
Mrs. 0. They were schoolmates and have maintained a mail corre
spondence to the present time, the exchange of letters being not
frequent. Recently (say about the last of February) Mrs. A. received
a letter from the son of Mrs. C. to the effect that his mother was
ill and unable to write.
On March 14th Mrs. A. received a letter from Mrs. C., in which,
after apologising for writing upon such a subject, she says that at
the risk of being laughed at she must write to tell her of a dream
that she has had " twice in succession." She relates the dream, in
which she saw Mrs. A. pacing up and down in a room in her
house troubled in mind about a loan she was thinking of making.
A voice came to Mrs. C. saying, write and tell her not to lend the
money. She will regret it.
Mrs. C.'s letter was written apparently while she was still ill,
and it was with difficulty she found strength to write. The letter
referred to no other subject.
Dr. Hodgson's informant further wrote :
NEW YORK, March 24, 1893.
Dear Sir,—Your letter of 21st inst. is at hand. In response I
send herewith a statement written by Mr. A. in his own hand, but
to which, for personal reasons, he is unwilling to affix his signature.
His statement embodies a copy of the letter from Mrs. C. The
original of Mrs. C.'s letter I have seen and carefully compared
with this copy made by Mr. A., and certify to its being accurately
transcribed. Mr. A. is not willing to permit the original letter from
Mrs. C. to leave his possession.
My original statement of this case I find was not quite accurate
in two particulars, which may be immaterial, but it is well to be
exact. First, peculiar personal relations had much more to do with
the question of making the loan than friendship or pecuniary risk.
On this account Mrs. A.'s mind was more intently occupied in con
sidering the matter than would have been the case otherwise.
Second, Mrs. A. and Mrs. C. were not schoolmates, but formed
their acquaintance while taking music lessons from the same teacher,
say fifteen years or more ago.
You will note that in Mrs. C.'s dream Mrs. A. was " quite
inclined towards the transaction." Mr. A. says this is correct. It
is probably also correct that Mrs. A. wore a " lace scarf about her
head," though of this she cannot be certain. Mrs. C. had seen
Mrs. A. wearing such a scarf a year or so ago.
Dec., 1907. Cases. 155
Mr. A. says that Mrs. A. thinks it is certain that Mrs. C. has
never heard of Mr. B. Mrs. A. also feels certain that nothing she
(Mrs. A.) has ever said to Mrs. C. could convey the information or
suggestion that she was likely to be asked for a loan by any one.
No reply has as yet been received by Mrs. A. from Mrs. C. as
to the exact dates of the dream.
I regret that the circumstances are such as to preclude the use
of names in this case. I am willing to endorse fully Mr. A.'s state
ments upon my knowledge of his character.
Mr. A. wrote :
NEW YORK, March 24, 1893.
On the 9th of March, 1893, I received from Mr. B. a letter dated
March 8th, 1893, asking for a loan of a considerable sum of money.
The circumstances in the case called for very careful consideration,
and certain peculiar personal relations to Mr. B. and his family
connections made it important to have the advice and opinion of
my wife. I therefore showed Mr. B.'s letter to her, and asked her
to think about it for a day or two, which she did, and talked with
me on the subject on the evening of March 9th, and also from
time to time on the 10th, llth, 12th, and 13th of March.
On the 14th of March she received from a friend—Mrs. C.—
living in a Western town about 2000 miles from New York, a letter
dated and posted March llth, 1893, as follows:
" My dear Mrs. A.,—Although still confined to my bed as I
wrote you, and finding it a physical difficulty to write, a dream of
you, which has come to me two successive nights, is so real I must
transcribe it to you, however lightly you may choose to consider it,
and I beg your generous heart to pardon any presumption which
may appear in my making sufficient of it to send you a description.
"I saw you walking meditatively up and down a path in your
home, with a lace scarf about your head, considering a loan of
which you were contemplating the making. You were quite
inclined to the transaction, but a voice kept saying to me, ' She
will regret it—tell her not to. It will lead to grief for her, and
for many reasons be a mistake.'
"My dear friend of the olden and the present time, laugh if you
will, but accept the interest and affection which prompt my writing,
and with love to your household, believe me ever your faithful
friend,
"[Mrs.] C."
Mrs. C. has not been East within the past six months.
I have the best reason to believe that she has never seen Mr. B.
nor any of his family relatives or connections. My wife is quite
positive that she never mentioned him nor any of his connections
to Mrs. C., and that Mrs. C. does not know of his existence.
1 56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Deo., 1907.
G. 282. Haunted House.
The Secretary of the Society went to see Mr. Veran (the
name is fictitious), the tenant of this house, a greengrocer's shop,
on October 15th, 1907, and obtained statements from the
tenant, his wife and three servants. The statements were taken
down from dictation and are in the words of the witnesses them
selves, but they contain answers put to them in cross-examination
by the Secretary, as well as their own spontaneous accounts of
what happened. A tradesman living next door confirmed the
story to some extent, although he was sceptical as to many
of the alleged facts ; but he was unwilling to sign any statement.
Mr. Veran said :
We came in here in the beginning of September.
To begin with, the servant complained as to noises. 29th Septem
ber, twenty [minutes] to twelve [midnight], I heard a terrible noise
in the kitchen, and thought some one was breaking in. I listened for
some time, and it got more serious. The bells, which are discon
nected with any place where they could be tampered with, began to
ring furiously. I and the man (Bert) and a policeman went to the
kitchen, and found no one. A noise like rapping on the wall con
tinued after we were in the basement. There are stables next door,
which might account for some of the noise. This was the only night
I heard the noises. My wife heard the bells on October 10th, at
5 a.m., so did the servant.
When the shop was being fitted up for me, Mrs. M., who was
cleaning the place up, heard inexplicable noises. She and a shop-
fitter found the man's bedroom locked, but there were footsteps
inside ; the man [the shopfittei'] said, " Come out, mate ; we won't
touch you ; the place is empty." He eventually broke open the door,
and found no one there.
The doors open of their own accord, and we hear the latch go,
though we don't see the handle turn. M}' brother-in-law has heard
the tapping on the door and seen a door open. The dog has got
quite thin since. JOHN VERAN.
Mrs. Veran's statement was :
On 3rd October, at 4.30 a.m., I heard footsteps coming down
stairs, and the dog barking, and I holloaed out, but there was no
answer, and my door came open. I went to see who opened my
door. I saw a woman in black, with sharp features and a large
black hat. I screamed, and she vanished. On the 4th October,
at 3 p.m., I was lying on the couch in the dining-room. I heard,
tapping at the door, and then she came up in a cloud, dressed as
before, beside the couch. I was wide awake and terrified. I have
seen her on several occasions since. She has touched me twice.
Once she shoved me in my husband's presence (October 8th), but
Dec., 1907. Cases. 157
we neither of us saw her (in the dining-room). I won't stop here.
It would drive me mad. We never heard any stories about the
house till after this happened. The apparition seems to come from
the bath-room. The butcher next door seems to know about the
bath-room, but won't say what he knows. He recognises the
apparition as the wife of the previous tenant.
On 4th October, between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m., I was going to call
Maggie. I was feeling nervous, because of the day before, and I
saw a man brush by me. His hair was brushed up, and his shirt
sleeves were tucked up. He took no notice of me. After that I
would not sleep in the house for a week.
On October 13th, at supper, a piece of bread was thrown
violently to the floor, wide of the table. I couldn't eat any supper
afterwards. MAY VERAN.
The maid-servant stated :
I only heard footsteps (a man's) on the bottom stairs first (5th
September), but I thought it was next door. The second time I
thought it was the man, but he had not come. The first time I
saw it was 5th October. I was going upstairs with a tray, at
about 1 a.m., and saw the back of a woman, like a nun, all in
black. She seemed to be going in to the dining-room. I was
frightened, and put the tray down and ran downstairs. I have not
seen her since. I have neither seen nor heard anything else.
MAGGIE
The two men-assistants in the shop stated :
On the Wednesday the bells rang twice. Bert and I were in
the kitchen, then I heard X. scream, and she came almost fainting
downstairs, and I went up the stairs, and saw a tallish woman in
a black dress and big hat. That's all I have seen, but I have
heard walking. And there's more noise than ever in the bath-room.
CHARLES
I came here a week before my master, and heard mysterious
noises, but took no notice of it, and did not mention it. Then
on the Sunday the bells began to ring, and there was no one
there. On the Wednesday after the bells rang again ; we were in
the kitchen, between 9 and 10. Soon after this the servant started
screaming. I found her nearly fainting on the stairs. As the
other man came up the stairs, I saw the vision glide past me up
the stairs. I did not mention it to the other man, but lie told
me about it, for he had seen her too, when I got back to the
kitchen. I've not seen it since. While the mistress was away it
was all quiet, since she came back it has begun again. The last
time I heard the footsteps was last week. Altogether I have heard
the footsteps quite half-a-dozen times. BKRT
On analysing the evidence, one observes at once that the
first phenomena were the most simple and the most easy to
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Dec., 1007.
account for. Mice and rats are frequently responsible for the
unnecessary ringing of bells, and the noises which horses in an
adjoining stable can produce at night are many and varied. It
seems not unlikely that the effect of these noises on the mind
of the wife of the tenant was sufficient to account for the
apparition which she saw. At least it was evident afterwards
that she had got into a very nervous condition. Nor must
one forget that although she and her husband appear honestly
convinced that they had heard no traditions with regard to
the house previously, it is always very difficult to say after
the event the particular dates on which rumours have
been heard. Indeed, it seems extremely likely that the
stories regarding the ringing of the bells and other noises
were discussed by the neighbours, who could hardly have
refrained from giving an explanation in accord with what
they knew of previous tenants.
The husband's evidence is not of great importance, as he,
at any rate, did not see an apparition. The evidence of the
servants is at first sight more impressive, as they apparently
did see something. But Maggie had clearly got into a very
nervous state—partly through the noises, and partly through
hearing of her mistress's previous experiences—before she saw
the figure, while the testimony of the two men did not strike
the Secretary as being given with absolute sincerity.
The case then appears on the whole to be an excellent instance
of the way in which a ghost story may grow up from very
slender foundations, so that if it is not examined from the
very beginning, the signed evidence eventually obtainable
would appear almost conclusive of some supernormal agency.
COEEESPONDENCE.
THE ARENSBURG POLTERGEIST.
(To the Editor of the JOURNAL S.P.R.)
November 16th, 1907.
SIR,
May I be permitted a few comments on Mr. Govett's letter
on the Arensburg Poltergeist, which appears in the current number
of the Journal.
Mr. Govett objects to the phrase used in the October Journal
Dec., 1907. Correspondence. 159
that Count Solovovo's explanation—that the disturbances were
caused by underground water—seems to account satisfactorily for
all the facts of the case. I retain the italics, which are Mr. Govett's
own, as they serve to emphasise my first point, namely—that Mr.
Govett fails, as it seems to me, to distinguish between "facts" and
third-hand or even more remote testimony for facts, and it is
apparently Count Solovovo's endeavour to preserve this distinction
that has brought him under the ban of Mr. Govett.
I believe that the sole authority for the story of the Arensburg
Poltergeist (until Count Solovovo obtained some confirmation of it
from the Buxhoewden family) was Dale Owen. Owen's account
came from the daughter and son of Baron von Guldenstubbe, who
had heard it from their father. Their account is therefore second
hand, and Owen's version third-hand. Not only so, but Baron von
Guldenstubbe himself is only stated to have witnessed the dis
arrangement of the coffins and the precautions taken to preclude
human agency, and to have drawn up the official account of these
events—the existence of which account, by the way, careful
enquiries have failed to substantiate. (See Journal S.P.R., February,
1907.)
The supplementary details of horses being frightened and of noises
being heard in the vault are not said to be contained in the official
account, nor are they vouched for by Baron von Guldenstubbe.
That is, they are not related even at third-hand, and are obviously
rumours of a kind which we know from long experience tend to
accrete round such narratives. I think, then, that the term "facts"
may fairly be confined to what is contained in the official account,
as described by Owen.
The letter printed in the October Journal affords strong evidence,
which Mr. Govett practically ignores, that as a matter of fact in
this particular cemetery water does sometimes occur in the vaults,
and that coffins have been found actually floating in them—head
downwards, like the coffins in Owen's narrative. The discovery may
have been first made some time later than 1844, the date of the
Poltergeist.
Disturbances of coffins from the same cause are not unknown in
other places—e.g. a case has occurred recently at the Edgware
Parish Church. The Times of August 3rd, 1907, reports a sitting
of the Consistory Court of London, at which a petition was pre
sented by the vicar and churchwardens of the parish of Edgware
for a faculty to authorise the removal of human remains buried
under the church. It was stated that under the centre of the
church and under the transepts was an almost continuous series of
brick graves, having large flagstones on the top. The graves were
found to be filled with water to the depth of 4 ft. to 6 ft., in
which some of the coffins and decayed bones were floating.
Of the theory that the Arensburg coffins were disturbed by water
Mr. Govett says : " The occurrences took place in the middle of
summer, not in autumn or spring, when the Grundwasser wells up."
I think—to quote Mr. Govett's own words—" the writer of this
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1907. '
paragraph cannnot surely have read Dale Owen's account, or he
would scarcely have made such a statement."
According to Owen, the first time the coffins were found dis
arranged was after (he does not say how long after) the interment
of a member of the Buxhoewden family who had died " about the
same time " that a complaint was made to the Consistory ; namely,
at some time (unspecified) after eleven horses had " one day in the
course of July " had a panic in the cemetery. This is Owen's
nearest approach to the mention of any particular time of year
when the coffins were disturbed. The other occasions took place
later, and from the narrative would seem to have extended over a
considerable period, probably well into the autumn.
Mr. Govett remarks further that the water must have appeared
and disappeared, in the first case, during the short period between
the burial and the discovery of the confusion of coffins. But there
is nothing in Owen's account to show that the confusion had not
taken place long before it was discovered by those three or four
bold spirits who ventured to examine the vault on this occasion.
As to the wood-ashes strewn over the pavement, the effect of
water rising and subsiding again would probably have been, if
anything, to make their surface smoother than before.
Mr. Govett lays special stress on the "strange terror of horses
in the vicinity," and observes that " cases innumerable could be
pointed out, going to prove that animals are possessed of second
sight." I would remind him that not one of these cases comes to us
at first-hand, and—so far as I can remember—in no single case (with
the doubtful exception of Balaam's ass) did the second-hand reporter
himself receive a verbal account from the percipient. Here again
I would urge that the distinction should be maintained between
facts and second-hand testimony about or inference from facts.
Finally, Mr. Govett "can only suppose that Count Petrovo-
Solovovo was ignorant of the circumstances, or that he was actuated
by a pardonable desire to close an incident obnoxious to the
Buxhoewdt-n family." To bear out this supposition, Mr. Govett
quotes ;i sentence from Owen : " The matter had been hushed up
at the time, through the influence of the family " (Owen, Footfalls
on the Boundary of Another World, London, 1861, p. 191). If Mr.
Govett had himself devoted a little more attention to the circumstances,
he would have discovered (1) that the "matter" which "had been
hushed up " was not the disturbance among the Buxhoewden coffins,
but the suicide of a member of their family; (1) that Count Solovovo,
far from closing the incident, has contributed materially to its re
opening, by causing a careful, though fruitless, search for the alleged
official account to be made in 1899 in the official archives both at
Riga and at Arensburg, and, later, by having enquiries made on the
spot by a present member of the Buxhoewden family, the result of
which enquiries were placed at our disposal.
I am, SIR, Yours faithfully,
ALICE JOHNSON.
No. CCXLV.—VOL. XIII. JANUARY, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 161
New Associates, 162
Council Meeting, 162
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 163
Comments by Dr. F. C. S. Schiller on a Criticism of Prof. Hyslop, - 163
Case, 167
Mrs. Eddy. By J. Arthur Hill, 169
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, JANUARY y>th, 1908, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Automatism and Possession "
WILL BE READ BY
SIR OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.
N.B.—Members and Associates -will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an invitation
card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member or Associate is
allowed to invite ONE friend.
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1908.
NEW ASSOCIATES.
BOVENSCHEN, F. C., 26 Sunderland Eoad, Forest Hill, London, S.E.
CURWEN, MRS., Horncop, Heversham, Milnethorpe.
EMMET, THE REV. CYRIL W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon.
HALE, RALPH T., 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
LANDMAN, SAMUEL, M.A., 178 Camden Road, London, N.W.
LENON, JOHN WALTER, Kiamara Estate, Nairobi, B.E.A.
LYON, Miss C. C., Topcroft, Guildford.
MANUEL, ALEXANDER, M.B., 2 Marlborough Gate, London, W.
PEACOCK, W. H., M.B., 285 Uxbridge Road, London, W.
PENHA, A. DE LA, University College, Oxford.
STOCKER, Miss MARY IDA, Dunorlan, Harrogate.
THOMAS, ERNEST SEYMOUR, Turf Club, Cairo.
WHITE, DR. GORDON, Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
COUNCIL MEETING.
THE 88th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, December 17th, 1907, at
6 p.m. ; Sir William Crookes in the chair. There were also-
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Professor Barrett, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. W.
M'Dougall, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mrs. H.
Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. Le M. Taylor,
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Mr. V. J. Woolley,
Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Mr. R. A. H.
Bickford-Smith, Secretary.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Thirteen new Associates were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for November were presented and
read.
The Secretary having read extracts from letters he had
received from Canada and New Zealand asking for advice as
to the formation of local Societies for Psychical Research, an
JAN., 1908. Council Meeting. 163
informal discussion took place on the subject of Branch
Associations, and eventually a Sub-Committee, consisting of
Professor Barrett and Messrs. W. M'Dougall, H. Arthur Smith,
and V. J. Woolley, was appointed to investigate the subject
and to report to the Council at a future date.
PRIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
THE 21st Meeting for Members and Associates only was held
in the large hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Tuesday, December 17th, 1907, at 4 p.m.; Mrs. Sidgwick in
the chair.
Mr. J. G. PIDDINGTON read a paper entitled " A Case of
Cross-Correspondence between Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall."
The paper will be published in the Proceedings.
COMMENTS BY DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER ON A
CRITICISM OF PROF. HYSLOP.
PROF. HUGO MUNSTERBERG, of Harvard University, still believes in
the divine right of professors. He still believes that he has been
providentially appointed as " the psychologist," and ordained to
enlighten the American people concerning every cause cdlebre which
excites the passing enthusiasm of the American reporter. And I
do not know that there would be much harm in this amiable
belief, if it were not associated in him with two other very
common human traits, viz. strong prejudices and an intolerant
temper. These three characteristics unite to detract somewhat
seriously from the value of the criticism he passes on Prof.
Hyslop's account of communications purporting to come from
Itichard Hodgson, which he has published in the Boston Sunday
Magazine for Nov. 3, 1907.
The pith of Prof. Miinsterberg's criticism seems to be contained
in the following paragraphs :
" Wherever mediums eke a living from the silly credulity of
superstitious believers, it became for awhile the fashion to get
messages from Hodgson. Yet the fraud was so evident that serious
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1908.
minded occultists hardly gave any attention to these cheap tricks.
But soon the situation changed. It became known that Hodgson's
friend, Prof. Hyslop, the founder of the new American Society for
Psychical Research, had attained to contact with the deceased, and
again through the agency of Mrs. Piper. Mr. Hyslop is a con
scientious, scrupulous scholar, and, as to Mrs. Piper, it seems
unreasonable to be suspicious of conscious fraud. The careful
reports of these experiences have now been published. . . .
"... I admit Dr. Hyslop's best will for strict reserve ; yet there
seems to be not the slightest occurrence between Dr. Hyslop and
his mediums which is not entirely explainable from the kind of
abnormal brain action which every psychologist knows from observa
tion of hysteria and hypnotism, of dreams and neurotic aberrations—
abnormal happenings which certainly do not need the spiritualistic
machinery. But while the psychologist rejects, in the one case as
in the other, the explanation through spirits as superfluous and
illogical, he ought to be willing to confess that behind the mere
argument of reason stands more powerfully still the argument of
emotion : his whole being abhors this repellent caricature of immor
tality, this vulgar materialism which makes the after life a trivial
continuation of the lowest stratum of our personality.1
" Of course this ethical and religious aspect of the great problem
lies to-day outside of our discussion. If we were to consider it,
we should have to insist that the idea of eternal life is deprived
of its highest meaning as soon as it is taken as such a temporal
habitation of man in remote quarters. But I wished to abstract
here from the speculations of the philosopher ; I wished to deal
with our question only as a psychologist. The problem is thus not
whether our dead friends are going on with their existence and
are willing to talk ; it is only whether such automatic writings
can be accredited as supernatural messages from them.
" Of course, the public at large would hardly have been influenced
so much by the slate writing of pathological mediums if there did
not exist a latent belief that all such unconscious utterances spring
from a deeper subconscious personality. Such a subconscious self
may then be free from the limitations of our conscious self, may
have knowledge and insight which go beyond our conscious powers,
may thus perhaps enjoy a kind of long distance wireless connection
with other selves, and may afford, finally, even the longed for
information from the dead. But it is the duty of the scientist to
1 All this seems a very naive confession of prejudice.—F. C. S. S.
JAN., 1908. A Criticism of Professor Hyslop. 165
emphasize that this belief, which is so fruitful for every supersti
tion, has not the slightest basis in fact : there is no subconscious
personality whose powers are by principle different from or superior
to the functions of our conscious self.1
"Indeed, there is no conscious life which does not depend upon
unconscious factors. When we remember a face, a landscape, a
name, a verse, which we saw or heard years ago, the impressions
must have remained in us unconsciously, and we may be only
doubtful whether we have to call them unconscious ideas or whether
the unconscious process was simply a brain state. In the same
way most of our actions and thoughts are prepared and decided
outside of consciousness. When we talk, we are not beforehand
conscious of the movements of our lips and tongue, mostly not even
conscious of the words ; the impulses to these speech movements in
conversation result from our unconscious brain activities, and yet
we do not say that a subconscious personality selects our words :
it is our true self which is working. Our only normal personality
is thus made up in the largest part of its functions from unconscious
ideas and brain states, and all these unconscious processes are con
stantly producing effects for which we alone are responsible, and
not a hidden, second person in us.2
" And there is nothing changed in principle if by a mental disease—
for instance, hysteria—the final effects of these unconscious doings
remain themselves also unconscious to the actor. The speaking or
writing goes on then as normally as a result of the unconscious
states, and the difference is only that the writer does not know
that he, or rather she, is writing. That is abnormal and patho
logical ; but it gives not the least reason for believing that the
writing therefore results from a deeper layer of the person, that a
deeper spring of knowledge is touched, or that a hidden and
mysterious personality comes to light. The unconscious scribbling
of these automatic writers is entirely their own mental product,
and the lack of conscious control can only decrease its value, and
cannot possibly raise it to the height of an inspired revelation
from supernatural spirits."
*A delightfully dogmatic begging of the question. —F. C. S. S.
2 Prof. Munsterberg does not seem to realize that the relation of "secondary"
and "subconscious" personalities to the "normal" self is a question not for
dogmatism, but for inquiry. And how, one is curious to know, does he
reconcile his metaphysical " idealism " with the physiological materialism of
his appeal to "brain states"?—F. C. S. S.
166 Journal of Society for Psychicdl Renearch. JAN., 1908.
As to the particular case that has roused Prof. Miinsterberg's
ire, Prof. Hyslop, as readers of Proceedings are probably aware, is
extremely conscientious in publishing extraordinarily elaborate and
uncompressed accounts of his experiments, such as would never
be expected, and hardly tolerated, in any recognized subject of
scientific investigation. Now, in view of the novelty of Psychical
Eesearch, and the multiplicity of the sources of error with which
it is beset, it is probably wiser to state explicitly and at length
many things which in ordinary scientific experimentation would be
taken for granted, as covered by the readers' general confidence
in the competence of the experimenter. But it is evident that to
state everything in full must lead both to dulness and to a good
deal of triviality, on which a prejudiced critic may fasten if he
chooses.
It may be said, however, that (on Prof. Miinsterberg's own showing)
the commonplaceness and triviality of his selections from Prof.
Hyslop's too voluminous reports in no wise exceeds that of his
criticisms. The attitude "I won't believe in what you tell me of
the spirit world, because it is not nearly romantic enough" is very
trite. So too is the attitude "what the professor doesn't recognize,
isn't true." So is the attitude " ultimate reality must bear out my
metaphysic." But surely Prof. Miinsterberg could pacify the poet
within his breast by reading Vergil or Dante, the professional by
studying a few of the strange cases of credulity and incredulity
which diversify the annals of science, say the N-rays fiasco and
the Martian "canals" (which have at last had their scientific place
in nature fixed by the photographic plate), and the speculative
dogmatist by cultivating a sense of humour and realizing that the
grotesque spectacle presented by the history of philosophy, to wit
thousands of metaphysicians each hazarding a cocksure affirmation
about ultimate reality which no other human being has ever been
able to agree with, is to the full as " silly " as men's readiness to
declare a difficult problem solved on insufficient grounds. He need
not on this account have fallen foul of Prof. Hyslop's praiseworthy
and well-meant efforts. Curiously enough, the same paper contains
an amusing illustration of the fallaciousness of Prof. Miinsterberg's
method of criticism. In another article Mark Twain tells, in his
inimitable way, how the secret of a lifetime was revealed by the
innocent-looking question, "Tell me! What is the special peculiarity
of smoked herrings 1 "
Nevertheless I think it would be well if psychical researchers
JAN., 1908. A Criticism of Professor Hyslop. 1 67
would try to meet Prof. Miinsterberg's strictures. Only he must
co-operate, e.g. by sending in a brief sketch of the sort of after
life he would like to have and to have testified to by the "spirits,"
in order that mediums might know where to look for the where
withal to please him. If it should then turn out either that
nothing would satisfy his notions of his spiritual dignity, or nothing
short of the ipsissima verba of his own metaphysics, or nothing that
seemed at all attractive and convincing to any one else, one would at
least be enabled to estimate Prof. Miinsterberg's criticism at its
true value.
CASE.
P. 280. Impression.
THE following case is a somewhat unusual one, the initial
experiences of the percipient, Miss X. Y., being vague and
unassociated with any particular person, though as they became
intensified her thoughts lingered on a certain person whom she
had not seen for thirty years. At the time of her unpleasant
sensations this person was in good health, but he died suddenly
.a few days afterwards. She writes :—
Nwember 5th, 1907.
DEAR SIR,—It has been suggested to me to send you an account
of some strange mental experiences which came to me last spring
—between the middle of April, and the middle of May. These
experiences I can only describe as great waves of feeling, which
•carried me back to scenes long past, and among persons whom I
had almost forgotten, but which seemed for the time as real as the
surroundings of my present life. It happened to me three or four
times at intervals of some days, each time taking me back to a
more distant past, and becoming increasingly vivid. At first I
shook the feeling off, and worked harder than usual; but when
the same thing was repeated more and more forcibly I became
alarmed lest I might be losing my reason. The alarm became
positive distress with the last of these experiences. I am a teacher,
and was occupied with some very dull children when it came upon
me. In a moment I was overwhelmed with a flood of memories,
which carried me so entirely into far different surroundings, that
it was difficult to continue my work ; at the same time I became
convinced that there was a purpose^in what I was undergoing.
As soon as I could be alone and think it over a feeling of intense
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 190&
suspense took possession of me, concerning some event intimately
connected with myself which was about to happen. In great
distress of mind I sought refuge in prayer that I might understand
these extraordinary experiences, and make no mistake about any
thing I ought to do. I then set myself to think of all the persons
with whom I have been associated in the past, any of whom
might be needing me. The only one on whom my thoughts lingered
was a gentleman, between whom and myself there existed a romantic
attachment in my very early youth, he being nine years my senior.
Over 30 years ago we were parted,—at the time through a foolish
misunderstanding, and later through circumstances. For many years
I retained the hope of seeing him again; but as time went on I
could only conclude that he had forgotten me ; and among the
cares and responsibilities of a very active life the remembrance of
him faded from my mind. However, within an hour or two of
my prayer for guidance I had decided to see him at the earliest
possible moment, though it meant a journey of over two hundred
miles ; and had I been free I should have started at once : as it
was, I had to content myself with the determination to go at the
end of the term.
Neither of the scenes to which I had, (so to speak), been trans
ported had any connection with him, but the impression became
too vivid to be questioned.
This happened, I believe, but am not perfectly certain, on May
17, at which time the gentleman was in good health, as I have
ascertained since, and his health continued, so far as could be
seen, up to the moment of his death, on the 20th—three day&
later; it could not have been more sudden or unexpected. I have
had no return of my strange experiences, and nothing can shake
my conviction that in some mysterious way they foreshadowed his
death.
X. Y.
In a later letter Miss X. Y. wrote :
November 14.
... I have pinned the cuttings in their right order. In.
the first it is said that the death took place on the Tuesday, May
21st, but unless Mr. was in the habit of sitting up till past
midnight, that could not have been. Had he been living till 12
p.m., he would probably have gone to bed, where he would have been
found. I mention this because I give the 20th as the day of his
death. But in any case it only makes the difference of a few hours.
JAN., 1908. Case. 16J»
From Mr. J.'s letter, as well as from P.'s statement, I incline to
think that he had passed away before 11. You will see from his
brother's evidence that he was visiting at [his brother's house]
when the strange feelings came over me. ... X. Y.
The newspaper cuttings referred to, which were sent to us,
contained the account of the coroner's inquest, and of the
funeral, as well as a later one describing the unveiling of a
tablet in memory of the deceased gentleman. They all gave
May 21st, 1907, as the date of the death.
At the inquest his brother stated that the deceased gentle
man had stayed with him during some part of previous week,
and when he left on the previous Saturday was apparently in
good health.
His servant stated that when he retired to bed on
Monday night at 11 o'clock, he left his master, as he
thought reading in his study. He went into the study at
about a quarter past 7 on the next morning, and found him
sitting on a chair in front of the< fireplace with a book
open before him. Thinking he was asleep, he spoke to
him but received no reply. He then found that he was dead.
A letter from a neighbouring Vicar says : " he had no-
warning signs before his death ; everything just as usual. He
worked in his garden till 9 p.m., went to his study, read and
then went quietly into the presence of God."
MES. EDDY.
BY J. ARTHUR HILL.
To the psychical researcher, as such, the beliefs and practices
of the " Christian Scientists " are of no great interest. The
speculative beliefs can hardly be regarded as scientific theories,
at least by those whose conceptions of science are of a
comparatively humble and grovelling order ; in fact, some
impatient souls, anxious to keep as close to sensory experience
as possible, may be inclined to dismiss those beliefs as a
kind of insane metaphysics, a degenerate and confused
Berkeleyanism. The practices, however, are in rather different
case. It is alleged that, by these" practices—which consist
chiefly in bringing about a change in the patient's beliefs—
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1908.
bodily diseases are cured ; and here we reach a point which
falls within the sphere of science as we understand the
word. It is a matter which can be decided by observation
.and induction. And, as the means employed are of psychical
rather than physical nature, these practices are of some
interest to our research. It will be remembered, however,
that Mr. F. W. H. Myers and Dr. A. T. Myers examined
the evidence for some of these alleged cures (Proceedings,
Vol. IX., p. 160), and that their conclusions were not
favourable. No satisfactory evidence for a cure of well-
authenticated organic disease by " Christian Science " methods
was found ; and, in cases of apparently functional disorders
which were cured, it did not seem necessary to suppose that
anything except suggestion was the cause of the cure. And,
though " suggestion " is not completely satisfactory as an
-explanation (since we do not know why or how the suggestion
operates), it is sufficient for our purpose if these cures can
be even thus partially and inadequately explained ; for it will
at least appear that the peculiarities of " Christian Science "
are not essential parts of the programme. Dr. Tuckey and
Dr. Bramwell do not trouble their patients with exhortations
and arguments concerning " mortal mind," nor do they assure
them that they are mistaken in believing themselves to be
ill ; yet their results are more remarkable than any well-
authenticated series of Christian Science cures so far produced.
And it is to- be noted that deep hypnosis is not always
necessary. Suggestions frequently " take," even though no
more than a slight drowsiness is obtained ; and the results of
Dr. Barrows and others seem to indicate that a profoundly
operative therapeutical suggestion may sometimes be planted
even in a mind which is awake and apparently normal.
Christian Science cures, then—assuming them to occur—are
probably due to suggestion.
The present paper, however, is more particularly concerned
with the founder of the cult than with the cult itself. The
life and character of Mrs. Eddy present many features which
are of some psychological interest, and it seems worth while
to consider briefly the chief events in her history, from a
psychical research point of view. For the facts and dates in
.the following account, we are indebted to the excellent articles
•JAN., 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 171
on Mrs. Eddy by Miss Georgine Milmine, which appeared in
M'Clurc's Magazine, Jan. to May, 1907.
Mary A. Morse Baker was born on July 16, 1821, at
Bow, on the Merrimac River, New Hampshire. She was the
youngest child of Mark Baker and Abigail Barnard (Ambrose)
Baker. Her ancestors on both sides—the Bakers and the
Ambroses—were sober, industrious farmers, with a strong New
England turn for religion. Mark Baker, her father, was a
man of strong personality, but of little education. He was
a keen hand at a bargain, but was upright in his dealings,
and was apparently a typical Puritan. His chief preoccupations
were politics and religion, and he was intolerant, dogmatic,
domineering, and passionate in the expression of his opinion
in both. His children inherited many of his qualities, and
" all the Bakers had a reputation for crankiness " ; but there
was marked capacity in many of them. Mark Baker's eldest
daughter, Abigail, married an Alexander Hamilton Tilton, who
made a fortune as a woollen manufacturer ; and after his
death his widow took control of his large manufacturing
interests, managing them with great success. Albert—the
second son—was similarly capable. He, alone among the
Bakers, received a good education ; he studied law with
Franklin Pierce, afterwards President of the United States ;
went into politics, served in the State legislature, and was
nominated for Congress ; but died prematurely at the age of
thirty-one. Of Mark Baker's six children—three sons and three
daughters—only Mrs. Eddy survives. All, except Albert, died
•of cancer, and nearly all their children have succumbed to
the same disease.
The first fifteen years of Mary Baker's life were passed at
the old farm at Bow. It was a lonely place, and " the church
supplied the only social diversions." The children worked on
the farm ; education was probably neglected ; the father's
library consisted of one book—the Bible ; the regime was
simple, stern, primitive. But though hard work and long hours
seems to have been the rule for the others, Mary herself
was exempted. The reason was twofold : her beauty helped
her to get her own way, and her ill-health made physical
labour mostly impossible. This latter point is interesting ; for
her symptoms seem to have been of nervous character, and
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Rexearch. JAN.,
her environment during these important formative years may
have had a great effect in determining her later evolution.
She was subject to violent seizures of epileptiform nature, in
which she would fall to the ground, sometimes kicking and
screaming, sometimes limp, sometimes cataleptic. The neigh
bours called them " tantrums," and looked on her as a spoilt
child. The family physician, Dr. Ladd, diagnosed her attacks
as " hysteria mingled with bad temper." He tried " mes
merism," with partly satisfactory results ; and perhaps some
telepathic rapport was established between them, for it is
reported that he could make her " stop in the street, merely
by thinking." Of this, however, no good evidence is now
available. In her autobiography—Retrospection and Introspection
—she describes how she heard voices calling her by name.
This appears to have been when she was about eight years of
age. The voices—unlike Joan of Arc's—do not seem to have
given her any messages, and were apparently degenerative rather
than " evolutive " in character. That is, if they occurred at
all—for Mrs. Eddy's recollections are in some instances
demonstrably mistaken, and in others extremely doubtful. She
informs us that her brother Albert taught her Hebrew,
Greek, and Latin, and that, as a child, her favourite studies
were Natural Philosophy, Logic, and Moral Science! According
to some of her old schoolmates, this is as " grossly exagger
ated " as the account of Mark Twain's death, which the
humourist himself was able to contradict. These acquaintances
of her childhood inform us that Mary was backward and
indolent, and that " Smith's Grammar, and as far as long
division in arithmetic," may be taken as indicating the extent
of her scholastic acquirements. It appears that Mrs. Eddy
makes no claim to scholarship now ; in fact, she dropped all
that useless and indeed false knowledge when she made the
more than compensating discovery of real wisdom, which is,
being interpreted, Christian Science.
In 1836, when Mary was fifteen, her father sold the Bow
farm, and the family moved to Sanbornton Bridge—now
Tilton. Here there was more social life, for The Bridge was
a lively manufacturing place. She went to school here, but
her hysterical attacks caused her attendance to be inter
mittent ; and her old neighbours and schoolfellows say that
JAN., 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 173
she received little education. She seems to have had a
wandering sort of mind, incapable of concentration.
The intellectual atmosphere of the New England towns at
this time is of some importance as an aid to understanding
Mrs. Eddy. There was a wave of " occultism " passing over
the land. " Animal magnetism," mesmerism, clairvoyance, etc.,
were in the air, and lecturers on these matters appeared in
every village. In 1837 Charles Poyen published a book
entitled Animal Magnetism in New England, and he seems to
have lectured in many of the districts where Mrs. Eddy
passed her earlier years. There had also risen above the
horizon that curious medium-philosopher Andrew Jackson
Davis, whose influence afterwards became so great among the
spiritualists ; and many strange religious sects sprang up,
prominent among them the " Shakers," who regarded Ann Lee
as the " female Christ," the " woman of the Apocalypse," the
" Holy Comforter." The Shakers called their establishment the
"Church of Christ"; Mrs. Eddy's sect is "The Church of
•Christ, Scientist." It seems probable that the earlier sect
influenced the founder of the later, directly or indirectly.
There was a flourishing colony of Shakers at Canterbury, five
miles from Tilton.
In 1843 Mary Baker married her first husband, George
"Washington Glover. He was a friend of her brother Samuel
—who had married Glover's sister—and the two had learnt
the bricklayer's trade together. Mr. and Mrs. Glover went to
Wilmington, South Carolina; but in June, 1844, Glover died
•of yellow fever. His wife was left without money, but
charitable help enabled her to return home to her father's
house at Tilton. Here, in September, 1844, her only child
was born, and she named him after his father, George
Washington Glover.
A period of ten years of widowhood now began. Having
no means, she made an attempt to support herself by teach
ing ; but the experiment lasted only a few weeks. Her
brothers and sisters had married and left home, her mother
was old and incapacitated, and her father was past his prime.
In spite of her ill-health and troubles, she seems to have
•dominated her surroundings to an astonishing extent. Dividing
her time between her father's house and the home of her
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1908.
sister, Mrs. Tilton, she reigned in both as an honoured
guest, though dependent on her father and sister for food,,
clothing, and such money as she got. Her hysterical attacks
became worse, and she passed long periods in a state of'
apparent collapse. Noise was unbearable, and straw was laid
in i'ront of the house. She also showed eccentricities, such
as a mania for being swung or rocked—her father had a
large cradle made specially—and for lonely wanderings at
night. During this period she went into trances, in which
she had what purported to be visions of distant scenes and
events ; in one instance she described the whereabouts of
some hidden treasure, but several days' digging in the place
indicated failed to reveal the promised hoard. She was
interested in spiritualism, and heard " rappings " at night, like
the Fox sisters. In character she was affected and artificial,
fond of long words—which she frequently misused—yet
engaging enough when she tried to charm. Like Madame
Blavatsky, Mrs. Eddy seems to have been able to obtain a
rather remarkable influence over many of those with whom
she came in contact; though far inferior to Madame in
accomplishments and learning, her physical attractiveness was
much greater, thus supplying compensation.
In 1853 Mrs. Glover married Daniel Patterson, a travelling
dentist. Her state of health was such that, on the wedding-
day, Patterson had to carry his bride downstairs and back
again. During the next eight years they lived at various
places, always very poor, and Mrs. Patterson apparently still
ailing, nervous, and bad tempered. In 1866 Patterson seems
to have had enough of his wife's ways, and she on her part
seemed to have no particular affection for him. He left her,
but made some provision for her support. In 1873 she
obtained a divorce on the ground of desertion. This much
may be said at once, in order that the thread of the narrative
may not need to be broken by any further mention of
Patterson. But during this period an event which is important
in Mrs. Eddy's history had happened. This was her meeting
with the famous Phineas Parkhurst Quimby, who plays the
most notable secondary part in the drama of her life.
This remarkable man was the son of a blacksmith, and
was born in 1802. He had scarcely any education, but
JAN., 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 175-
possessed an intelligent and inquiring mind. Hearing Poyen
lecture, he became greatly interested in " mesmerism," and
eventually he gave up his trade of clock-making and became
a professional " mesmerist." With his subject, Lucius Burkmar
—a lad of about seventeen—he travelled all over New
England, performing the usual feats. His results convinced
him that Burkmar, in trance, could accurately diagnose
diseases, and could prescribe treatment which frequently proved
effective. Accordingly, for three or four years the two
practised in this way But during his investigations Quiinby
came to the conclusion that his clairvoyant did not really see
the interior of the patient's body, but that he had a power
of mind-reading which enabled him to reflect the beliefs of
the patient or of some other person in the room. Further,
Quimby arrived at the opinion that it was not the drugs
that cured, but the faith of the patient. Consequently, he
dropped mesmerism, discharged Burkmar, and began to work
out a theory of "mind-cure." In 1859 he opened an office
in Portland ; patients came from far and near, and he treated
all who came, whether they could pay or not. Quimby was
very far above the level of the average quack. He was in
all the relations of life an admirable man ; and, though a
man of one idea, that idea was creditable. His one aim was
to make his patients well. He embodied his theory in
voluminous MSS., in which he speaks of it as " The Science
of Christ," and once or twice as " Christian Science." But he
did not identify it with religion, or attempt to found an
ecclesiastical organisation.
In 1861 the Pattersons were living at Eumney, New
Hampshire. Mrs. Patterson, then forty years old, was a
confirmed invalid, and had been practically bedridden since
her second marriage. Having heard of Quimby's wonderful
cures, Dr. Patterson wrote to him at Portland ; but the
former had no intention of visiting the Eumney district, and
the latter could not afford the journey to Portland with his
invalid wife. Eventually, however, Mrs. Patterson raised
sufficient money, and in Oct., 1862, she reached Portland, on
a visit which was to mark a crisis in her life. She stayed
apparently about three weeks, and under Quimby's treatment
her maladies disappeared. Her faith had made her whole.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1908.
As it afterwards appeared, however, there was no complete or
permanent restoration, for she was still subject to nervous
seizures.
But the effect on her physical health was of secondary
importance ; it was the mental outcome of her visit that was
so striking. She became interested in Quimby's system,
watched his treatment of patients, read his manuscripts,
listened eagerly to his expositions. Probably her own mind
may have been running in similar grooves, but—in spite of
her denial l—it seems indubitable that she learnt from Quimby
almost all that she afterwards taught. She wrote letters to
the Portland papers, lauding him and his system in the most
extravagant language. The man and the subject possessed
her. She talked of him incessantly, and wrote letters to him
in the most reverential terms. Incidentally, these letters
show that she was still in poor health, for she sometimes
asks for "absent treatment."
Early in 1864 she paid Quimby another visit, staying in
Portland two or three months. She continued her studies
with greater zeal than ever ; and during this visit she seems
to have formed a desire to assist in the teaching of Quimby's
system. She saw possibilities of a career in front of her, and
ambition spurred her on. It need not of course be denied
that higher motives were also present ; Quimby wrought cures,
and his new disciple would no doubt share his enthusiasm
and his genuine passion for relieving the sufferings of his
fellow-men. But, on the whole, it would appear that .the
master was the finer character of the two.
1 "No human pen nor tongue taught me the Science contained in this book,
Science and Health; and neither tongue nor pen can overthrow it."—Science
and Health, p. 110, 1907 ed.
\To be continued.,]
No. CCXLVL—VOL. XIII. FEBRUARY, '1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 177
Annual General Meeting of Members, 178
Meeting of the Council, 178
General Meeting, 180
Report of the Council for the year 1907, 180
Account of Receipts and Expenditure
for 1907, 188
PAGE
Edmund Gurney Library Fund, Ac
count for 1907, 189
Endowment Fund for Psychical Re
search, 191
Curing by Self-Suggestion, - - - 191
The Medical Society for the Study of
Suggestive Therapeutics, - - 192
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
CROUCH, H. N., Sessions and District Court Judge, Karachi, Sind,
India.
CUNARD, CYRIL GRANT, 95 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
DRISCOLL, THE VERY REV. JAMES F., D.D., St. Joseph's Seminary,
Yonkers, N.Y., U.S.A.
Farrington, Ernest A., M.D., 2045 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
JOHNSON, THE REV. FRANK POOLE, St. Paul's Church, Tremont
Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
KLEIN, MRS., The Vicarage, Alberbury, Salop.
LEE, LEON Or. H., F.R.Met.S., Kingswood, Raunds, Nr. Welling-
borough.
MACKINTOSH, ROBERT DUNBAR, The Bungalow, Mortlake, Surrey.
MAXWELL, MRS. Louis R. M., Lamorna, Furzehill Road, Torquay
MOORE, LADY BEATRICE, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Sproston, W- Manning, M.A., Ardingly College, Hayward's Heath
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB.,
SWINSON, Miss GERTRUDE, 26 Upper Phillimore Place, Kensington,
London, W.
THORNHILL, B., National Liberal Club, Whitehall, London, S.W.
TORR, Miss D. E., Carlett Park, Eastham, Cheshire.
TREVELEC, THE EEV. MARQUIS DE, D.Litt., Herbignac, West
Southbourne, Bournemouth.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING OF MEMBEES.
THE Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday, January
30th, 1908, at 3 p.m.; Mr. Frank Podmore in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. I. Hamilton
Beattie, Mr. F. C. Constable, the Hon. Everard Feilding, the
Hon. J. Harris, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Miss Scatcherd, Mr. S. C.
Scott, Mr. A. F. Shand, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, Lieut.-Colonel G. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Mr. V. J. Woolley, Miss Alice Johnson,
Eesearch Officer, and Mr. E. A. H. Bickford-Smith, Secretary.
The Eeport of the Council for the year 1907 was read,
and is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1907 was presented and taken as
read, and is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of Council : Professor W. F.
Barrett, F.E.S., Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Frank Podmore and Mrs.
A, W. Verrall.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 89th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 30th, 1908, at
2.30 p.m.; Mr. Frank Podmore in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Hon. Everard Feilding
the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Sir Oliver Lodge
F.E.S., Mr. S. C. Scott, Mr. A. F. Shand, Mrs. H. Sidgwick
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Lieut-Colonel G. Le M. Taylor, Dr
FEB., 1908. Meeting of the Council. 179
Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Mr. V. J. Woolley, Miss
Alice Johnson, Eesearch Officer, and Mr. E. A. H. Bickford-
Smith, Secretary.
After considering their Eeport for the year 1907, the
Council adjourned for the Annual General Meeting of Mem
bers of the Society, and re-assembled at the conclusion of
that Meeting.
The minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were then
read and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were re
ported.
On the proposal of Mr. Frank Podmore, seconded by Mr.
H. Arthur Smith, Mrs. Sidgwick was elected President of the
Society for the year 1908. Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-
. elected Hon. Treasurer ; the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon.
Secretary ; and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor for the current
year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council
for the year 1908: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
W. M'Dougall, Mr. Gilbert Murray, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Mr. A. F. Shand, and Mr. V. J. Woolley.
Committees were elected as follows, with power in each
case to add to their number:
Committee of Reference : Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir William
Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Lord Eayleigh,
Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Miss Jane
Barlow.
Library Committee : The Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel Le M. Taylor.
Two new Members and thirteen new Associates were
elected. The names and addresses are given above.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were
elected for the year 1908.
The monthly account for December, 1907, was presented
and taken as read.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 131st General Meeting of the Society was held in the
large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday,
January 30th, 1908, at 4.30 p.m. Mrs. Sidgwick, having
been introduced as the new President by Sir William Crookes,
took the chair and called on Sir Oliver Lodge . to read his
paper on " Automatism and Possession " ; of which only an
abstract here follows.
SIR OLIVER LODGE began by saying: The word "possession"
is generally used with an evil or at least a pathological
connotation : not always, however, .for we have the idea of
self-possession, and that of a genius, possessed of ideas. This
is more akin to my present theme, for I intend to use it
in a quite sane and definite sense, as equivalent to motor
automatism or telergy ; so as to cleanse the word into
something like orthodoxy without referring to its pathological
sense. I possess this body and brain ; if any other intel
ligence could control them or part of them for a time, he
would possess them. Consider what occurs during speaking
and writing. An idea is conceived . in the mind ; but in
order to make itself known or to act as a stimulus, it must
move matter. The re-arrangement of matter is all that we
are able to accomplish in the physical world. The only .way
we can touch the material world is through our muscles.
But a thought belongs to a different order. How can it get
itself translated into terms of motion ? Physiology partially
informs us of the method, and the brain is the organ of
translation. But what stimulates the brain ? In many cases
reflex action ; though since that involves no consciousness, it
is of small psychical interest. By what means the psychical
gets out of its region into the physical no one knows, but
it is a process on which discovery is possible. The brain
is definitely the link between the two universes or modes of
existence. It may not be the only link, but it is the only
link we know of.
I now illustrate the subject by constructing certain diagrams.
No. I. is the diagram of a " self " or personality. The
horizontal line separates the psychical world from the physical
world, and the self is assumed to have half in each, abutting
FEB., 1908. 181
General Meeting.
against one another, after the manner of a placenta. In the
psychical part we have the unconscious life, common to animals
and even plants ; and in the higher animals we have the
beginnings of consciousness.
In the physical part we have the brain leading by efferent
nerve to muscle, and so out into the external world by
Diagram of a Self.
External Spiritual World
Consciousness
Ltmtlntt
i»
motion
External Maiet-ial World
motion ; and we have impulses from that world, received by a
sense organ, transmitted through sensory or afferent nerve to
the brain, and so up across, the boundary line into the
psychical half as " perception."
Another arrow across the bounding line comes down as
" will " from consciousness to brain.
From the unconscious life we have nutrition and other
vital processes on the one side, and the storage of habits
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
and unconscious memory on the other ; instinct also, giving
motor impulses to the brain, and dreams of one kind received
thence. Further, we have some connexion between unconscious
Personalities.
t
.Normal
Dominating Mediumistic
Multiple
?—-
Enfeebled
life and consciousness, in genius ; represented so because it stimu
lates to action through will. On the other side is memory,
whereby innumerable impressions are stored unconsciously.
There is also represented a couple of links between the
psychical part and the external spiritual world, which are
labelled inspiration and aspiration respectively.
FEB., 1908. General Meeting. 183
On the left-hand side of the diagram the arrows are drawn
downwards, as tending towards activity ; and on the right-
hand side upwards, as representing the receptive faculties. The
two sides, however, are merely a diagrammatic convenience.
Vitality unites the two halves and pierces the boundary ;
while trance partially, and death completely, separates, but
does not destroy.
Diagram No. II. represents different kinds of " personality,"
some of them pathological. They speak fairly for themselves ;
the intention being that impressions are received or transmitted
across the bounding line ; so that when the personality is
dislocated, impressions may be received from other than the
ordinary psychical unit, and may also be transmitted down
wards to influence other physical units.
The " enfeebled " personality may be taken to represent
second-childishness; possibly also some cases of lunacy, of
which, however, there are many varieties.
No. III. aims at being a complete scheme of human faculty;
two selves or individuals being represented, one in the condition
for activity, the other in the condition for receptivity. The
whole of the internal contents are here simplified for diagram
matic purposes, since the aim of the diagram is to show different
modes of connexion or interaction. It is not maintained that
all the arrows have a real existence, but the existence of all
has been asserted from time to time, and accordingly they are
provided for in the scheme.
Direct connexion between mind and mind is labelled tele
pathy. Sympathetic or antipathetic links between body and
body, for instance as by " brain waves," is labelled sympathy.
The action of one mind on another brain is labelled telergy ;
and the action of the motions or " passes " of one body on
the consciousness or subconsciousness of another person is
labelled hypnotism.
The normal mode of communication between two individuals
is shown through the medium of an external physical world
labelled "3?, through muscular movements and sensory impressions.
Thus the mind •^l normally operates on the mind >|^2 by the
roundabout path through his own brain and muscle, then through
the vibrations of the common air, to the sense organ of the
other person, and so up through his brain to his mind. The
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
spiritualists generally hold that what we call ' telepathy ' is not
really a direct link between \|^1 and -v//-2> as represented in the
diagram, but takes place through the general psychical world
¥ ; in analogy with the above normal mode of communication
through the general physical world <!?.
Scheme of Human Faculty.
An extension of muscular power beyond the bodily peri
phery is labelled " ectoplasy," and represents what has been
asserted of table-turning and the like. Abnormal sensitiveness
or " hyperaesthesia " is shown on the other side.
Another supernormal influence, apparently of the external
world upon the subconsciousness, not through the sense organs,
FEB., 1908. General Meeting. 185
is labelled " psychometry " ; and a corresponding arrow on the
motor side is labelled " telekinesis."
In the upper part of the diagram beside telepathy, which
is here represented as direct communication between mind and
mind, without crossing the boundary into matter, the arrows
are represented as all emanating from the psychical world ;
though strictly speaking they should be double-headed arrows
signifying inter-communion rather than reception only.
" Inspiration " is put on the left-hand side because it repre
sents generally a stimulus to action ; " clairvoyance," if it exists,
is put on the receptive side.
Similarly with "motor automatism" and "sensory automatism,"
which are regarded here as direct connexion between the
general psychical world and some receptive part of the brain
or nervous mechanism.
The name " possession " might be given both to the motor
automatism arrow and to the telergy arrow.
Again, the popular generalisation " ghosts " might be repre
sented in various places,—the " fixed local " variety possibly
along with the rest of " psychometry."
" Miracle " might be represented by an arrow direct from
the psychical into the physical world, crossing the boundary
without any intermediate physiological link or brain mechanism.
The diagram is not to be regarded as an argument for the
existence of any of these things or faculties, but as a scheme
providing for their orderly incorporation, if otherwise discovered
or proved to exist.
[NOTE.—To avoid misunderstanding it may be as well to explain that
no part of the diagram called "Scheme of Human Faculty" is intended
to be theological. The "V and •£ only represent the general psychical
and the general physical universes respectively ; just as the $ and <f>
represent the soul and body of an individual—that is to say, of a
complete personality. If Deity were represented in a similar way
we might draw a large 0 to include the whole, which would cor
respond with the doctrine of Immanence ; or we might suppose a
large A outside the plane altogether, with perpendicular links to
every part, which would correspond with the doctrine of Transcend
ence ; or, better still, an infinite globe enclosing everything, thereby
including both doctrines, and much more. Materialists are only
interested in the parts below the horizontal line ; and the Lower
Pantheism signifies a comprehensive summary of this portion.]
1 86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
THE PRESIDENT, MRS. SIDGWICK, said that she was sure she
should be expressing the feeling of those present in thanking
Sir Oliver Lodge most heartily for his interesting address.
In regard to the evidence which in his view pointed towards
" possession " in the case of Mrs. Piper, to which he had
referred in the latter part of his speech, she wished to say
that the Council greatly regretted that it was not at present
possible for members to discuss it with advantage, since the
detailed Report was not yet in their hands. Delay had
unfortunately been caused through Mr. Piddington's illness,
and consequently it would be some months before the evidence
obtained through Mrs. Piper and described in the papers read
by him at the last two meetings of the Society could be
published. The President added that those who knew her
would not be surprised that she should not be quite so
sanguine as Sir Oliver Lodge in her estimate of the results
of the investigations made in recent years, but that she did
think we had obtained evidence of a kind different from
what had been obtained before, and that when it had all
been thoroughly studied, it would be found that a distinct
advance had been made.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1907.
THE Membership of the Society has remained practically
stationary during the year, although, owing to the transference
of Members and Associates of the American Branch to the
Parent Society, there would appear to be a gain of 199.
Seventeen new Members were elected during the year ;
twenty-three Members were transferred from the American
Branch ; while six Associates became Members ; making a
gain of 46 Members, against which must be set off twelve
resignations, two deaths, four transferred to Associateships, and
four removed from the list on account of non-payment of
subscriptions. This makes a total loss of 22 Members during
1907, leaving a net increase of 24 (or one, exclusive of the
American Members) and a total of 254 Ordinary Members.
There are also 28 Honorary and Corresponding Members, or
282 Members in all.
FEB., 1908. Report of the Council. 187
Eighty-one new Associates were elected during the year,
four Members became Associates, and 168 Associates were
added from the American Branch ; against this must be set
off 50 resignations, 5 deaths, 6 changes to Membership, and
17 removals from the list. Consequently the total loss of
Associates for the year was 78, leaving a net increase of
175 (or 9, without the American Associates) and a total
of 840 Ordinary Associates. There are also 16 Honorary
Associates, or 856 Associates in all. The grand total of
Members and Associates at the end of 1907 therefore stands
at 1138.
The chief work done by the Society during the year has
been in connection with Mrs. Piper's visit to England. In
response to the invitation of the Council, Mrs. Piper came
over from America and remained here for six months—from
November, 1906, to May, 1907, during which period 74 sittings
(of an average duration of about two hours and a half) were
held under the supervision of a Committee appointed by the
Council for the purpose, consisting of the President, Mrs.
Sidgwick, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr.
Frank Podmore. Two papers giving some of the results of
the investigation were read at Private Meetings of the Society
by Mr. Piddington, and every confidence is felt that the ex
penditure of time, energy, and money on these experiments
with Mrs. Piper has yielded material which will be of real
and permanent value to psychical research.
In order to bring out the results obtained, it was found
that a far more exhaustive examination both of these and of
previous records than has been the case with the earlier
American sittings was necessary. So much additional work
was thereby thrown on the staff that the Council determined
to carry out without further delay the plan for which the
Endowment Fund was instituted, and to appoint an additional
officer. This was done by making Miss Alice Johnson
Research Officer, Mr. Bickford-Smith being appointed Secre
tary and Editor in Miss Johnson's place.
Since Miss Johnson assumed her new office in October, she
has been engaged in writing a report on the automatic script
of Mrs. Holland, on which she read a preliminary paper at
a Meeting of the Society in July. The report is now being
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
t- O-H ooo , «D O
00 OrH
rH rH
io o >o O 10 iH
~
se S3
i—i rH.
Ci rH
O
Cfl
' OiOOirHMt-OOOOOt-OOO
a. ' 3 £* -H
« S
I -B , S tf . . , .,"§.. , , , , d , •Id ' '
1
a H .S £* "** ai T^ 1 J fi >FH
- • • • i £4S 1 "S §f I ' ' £ ' * i ,53'is • •
'rinting
of
Publications
Journal,
Nos.
231-24(
Proceedings,
Part
lii
and
Part
liii.,
-
5rflSll M ^
At
London
and
West
Current
Account
hands,
In
Secretary's
hands,
Binding,
- l^c^-s ^ d-fi
« -S Ji *- ^ W , S 4) 03 .
u15lnOe3 *^3l>
n^'i'Sw ^ -Sj^1"0
2«2<lK?tf * .^^ * ^
iiSl '.»"*!|i^ l^rc
||i|I||||l |J
fl .. •** —1 CD C rH
p IJill
!| llllJIill-iiiillll I*-
H P H02fHEH<Jr5OO-<KHO PH P4
M
r
"
H rH CO •* OC5O OS t-O OOCOO o
1-
0 Tt1 rf* CO >ft C
rH i—t
0 <1 —' 00 «lS'f OOOO t-
ai « co CD t
2 b- co rHS
iH r
S -rH •* r
«o c
HrH (NrHOCO
§
s > -^ OiH ^ b-
O CO CO t»
Q
O rHO O «O O ' ' ' ' ^^ b-t-CO b-,
. J, , , . ,
Sf
O !N <MIO CO tfl N rH CO O rH Oi rH SO 1N O CO
"•*
rH
m rH
lH T—I
• "3 • • • |"
eft 1
CO Q (M rH OS C<I
, 3 - «
•^ (N m CO iO rHO
COCD CON (M
i
os 5 ^^
"-1 J • *>
d
u 3
»r,
5J « g
1 8
na
d
•SF .
<i
i
G8
• 1
,^
® *C J3 ^^ ^^J
S-
O £
^co O
§
i
"S s »"
' a V.
o
o> i
*l
In
Secretar
Is
11
§4
E,Ord
a) . is £1 j:
il
jS
§HA
__<j
T3 d-a
Q
M
a
83
c :
H
06,07,
a
M .2 , _,l
d '
r^ 2!
o 0 *«
d '
' 1
*
'& • =
P<
«
>» ^
V
b =
' rt i u
Q .
il
a
..^
^ ^"
& 9
£ E
r-i s
3 ^
. ' CD
rQ Crt ~
u S — z 03 on >.
a ft s
£$ll
II•Hi-3
M • 1
§£0
!!
§ -^ -5 o
gt»M^
« h S- O 1*• **- W
•C S o o*c > o ° £
Ofttfl,
^JJ-g fi, 0) £ S
a
Is!
£3
^6
FEB., 1908. Account of Receipts and Expenditure. 189
1 O OO iO
_^ "8
000 rHO
-^ O (fl CO W t— i—1
Joo 'g ^
0) £
**" £
u.S'o ^ "s
Jit 1 Q) §
g g.Q M 02
I ; , , , ,
^_^3g j3 a "§
1 , . '
° ^f P -M S- "• S
a § >> JJ g ,S
£ >." ....
fs 53 2 -73 f^ J3? o ° ta
> '3 i; H —S
A S
g 1 ' ' J:
V
-^ -0
§
f 1*1 fiJQ «5 iu S •<
§ s
S
*2-*_» g 1 <
* ^ • '2
$ 2-i ^S .^ 1 a M o & , ,3
S5
rt^> ^
CO ™
w .S 0 0
1. .1
«J5 i
«A S
|1^ 1 s a
te S
, t t CU
03 llllll 1 1. .3
g
O2
eooooo S'g "o •*
03 oooooo
(-1 S
s ' • .S
o
I111II
CO O
g
*» (• g 8
p" Illl
O
M' ^
3 fl
^s P^ fQ fQ fQ
2 > M
FH
11
& a M d — O
Q •| ^ >>H
Tft-Co
fc QJ
"^ m| a^ -f CO W
O
1
|1 ^
eq OQ
o v,5 i N
_
2 "S c "^ ^
o >--2
'S"^ ^s"
o &c y;
m.c S
1
^ -ff 0)
43 « 5
03 a a)
^ «
£ 1 ^" 1
a §^"S Is 15 ^ C| 8
8
s-< J a , ^ ,
£ *c5 ^ »
1~ » §
5^1 fc -^"£
III
3 •§ w ^ "S
1 IP.
fe) M ^§
•s a i .
III ll 1
'•c c
II.
M.S.2
"Ss »
la .2
60
g«
a) 'E «
111 *ii "S'C S
gf* 0
ooo
CO O O £ 'C • _S **• O
s & S a ° a
- a „
-8 " S S"g
ll| 1 111
02
«
s
>*
« s
1
«
p
a
<5
K
1
s
1
J"'
a
3
f
y
8
d
1O 3
rn ^g
CC ^
"8
Js
-3
3
!
i
«
§
s
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
printed, and it is hoped that it will appear in the next Part
of the Proceedings.
In conclusion, the Council desire to point out to members
that the Endowment Fund is not, as it now stands, sufficient
to meet the expenses involved in this new appointment, and
is therefore in urgent need of further subscriptions. The
primary object of the Society being to advance knowledge of
psychical subjects, the Council wish to appeal to members for
such additional support of the Fund as will enable it to pro
mote that object by providing permanently for an official
whose whole time can be devoted to the work of investigation.
Subscriptions to the Endowment Fund should be sent to its
acting Honorary Treasurer,
THE HON. EVERAED FEILDING,
320 St. James' Court,
Buckingham Gate,
LONDON, S.W.
Two General and four Private Meetings of the Society
(for Members and Associates only) were held during the
year. The dates and papers read were as follows :
* January 30th. "The Case of Sally Beauchamp," by Mr.
W. M'Dougall.
March 25th. "Experiments in Thought Transference by
Miss C. Miles and Miss Eamsden," by Professor
W. F. Barrett.
*May 16th. "Experiments on the Appreciation of Time
by Sonmambules," by Dr. T. W. Mitchell.
July 5th. "A Series of Automatic Writings," by Miss
Alice Johnson.
November 7th. " A First Report on Cross-Correspondence
Experiments with Mrs. Piper and other Automatists,"
by Mr. J. G. Piddington.
December 17th. "A Case of Cross-Correspondence between
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Yerrall," by Mr. J. G. Pid
dington.
* Those marked with an asterisk were General Meetings.
FEB., 1908. Endowment Fund for Psychical Research. 1 91
ENDOWMENT FUND FOR PSYCHICAL EESEAECH.
WE have much pleasure in stating that a donation of £50
has been received for the Endowment Fund from Lord
Eayleigh, President of the Eoyal Society.
CUEING BY SELF-SUGGESTION.
A NUMBBE of cases of the cure of warts by suggestion through
charms have appeared in the Journal from time to time, and
it is often asserted that self-suggestion may be efficacious in
curing many ills, especially of a chronic nature. An interesting
case of the latter kind, recounted by a lady who had long
practised the system, was printed in the Journal for December,
1904 (Vol. XL, pp. 318-20). In the following case, Mrs.
Williamson, the writer of the account, seems to have got rid
of the effects left by an acute bronchial attack through similar
means. She writes :
THE CROFT,
DIDSBURY, MANCHESTER, 29th November, 1907.
I have been hoping that some of your members would have
taken up a side of Psychical Eesearch which appears to me to
offer great possibilities. That is, the power of the mind over the
body under normal conditions.
Let us take the case of a chronic bronchial affection and
consider it in this light. Owing perhaps to an attack of bronchitis,
the organs affected have set up a habit of sensitiveness to changes
of temperature, draughts, etc. ; these are the stimuli, and uncon
sciously the organs respond immediately with a cough, each time
making the habit deeper, until such distractions as "change of
air" are powerless to eradicate the physical habit.
[But such a habit may be] checked and gradually eradicated, as
the will can check and eradicate a bad moral habit, or conversely,
establish any number of habits, in such things as the muscles, as
for instance in the movements of the fingers in piano playing. . . .
I enclose an account of the curing of the bronchial tendency in
my own case which took place last week, the statement being
signed and corroborated by my friend Miss Cathinca Hartwig.
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1908.
I had an acute bronchial attack in the summer of last year, which
left my bronchial tubes and throat extremely sensitive, so that almost
ever since I have been liable to fits of coughing whenever I was near
to an open window, or there was any sudden change of temperature.
This became so bad lately that my husband strongly advised me to
see a specialist about it.
This I consented to do, on Saturday, 16th November, but the next
day it occurred to me to try the effect of will power instead, and defer
consulting the specialist for at any rate another week.
Each time I began to cough, I checked myself firmly (as one might
a child), and to my unbounded astonishment, the habit became
broken so quickly that by Friday the 22nd the tendency to
cough had completely gone and I could face open windows and
doors and even sit in draughts with impunity. Such a remarkable
result was beyond anything that I had anticipated.
EMILY WILLIAMSON.
Miss Hartwig writes :
Mrs. Williamson told me of her intention of consulting a specialist
about her throat on Saturday, the 16th November, and the next
day, that she intended to try the "will power" instead. On Friday,
the 22nd, the cough seemed to have gone altogether.
CATHINCA HARTWIG.
THE MEDICAL SOCIETY FOE THE STUDY OF
SUGGESTIVE THEEAPEUTICS.
THE Quarterly Meeting was held at the rooms of the Society
for Psychical Eesearch on January 16th. Mr. W. M'Dougall,
M.B., read a paper on the physiological theories of the hypnotic
state, which was followed by a discussion.
Dr. Milne Bramwell was elected President for the year
and Dr. Lloyd Tuckey Vice-President. Six new members
were elected, and the Society now numbers fifty-one medical
men.
No. CCXLVIL—VOL. XIII. MARCH, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
Cases, 194
Mrs. Eddy, by J. Arthur Hill (continued from the January Journal), - - - 199
Correspondence, --. 204
Endowment Fund Account for 1907, 208
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, MARCH 30^, at 4 p.m.
PAPERS WILL BE READ ON
" A Recent Case of a Veridical Phantasm
of the Dead "
BY
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
AND ON
" Experiments in Thought-Transference "
BY
MISS C. MILES.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will lie asked to sign their names on entering.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MABCH, 1908.
CASES.
S. 16. Poltergeist
THE following account has been sent by a Member of the Society,
who believes implicitly in the lona fides of the witnesses. The
narrator is the owner of the house. The Editor of the Journal
has seen the original correspondence and the photographs which
corroborate the narrative. The occupants of the house are very
anxious that their names should not be given in full, the owner
being in a professional position which he thinks might be detri
mentally effected if his name were known in connection with
such an affair. The narrator is a person of education, and made
notes at the time.
Before I begin my narration, I think it right to state that my
father, who had lived with us ever since my mother's death in the
year 1875, died in March, 1907, at the age of 90 years. He was
a man of strong will, firm in his religious opinions, and took a
deep interest in everything that concerned our welfare.
Our cottage is completely detached, and my wife and I sleep
downstairs. There are two bedrooms upstairs, the one on the right
of the landing, which, for clearness, I shall call room (No. 1), is
where my two sons J. and F. [both over twenty years old] slept.
It had been my father's room, and it was there he died. The room
on the left (No. 2) was occupied by my married daughter H. and
M. the wife of my second son, who is at present in Africa.
From 13th Aug., 1907, mysterious knockings were always heard
about midnight in room (No. 2), causing great alarm to the occupants ;
but after some time these knockings stopped in (No. 2) room, and
started in (No. 1). On 30th Aug., a small press used to hold
bottles, etc., for photographic purposes, which stood against the wall,
was forced out about 9 inches from the wall, and a mahogany box,
also containing photographic apparatus, which stood on top of this
press, was thrown violently down. The crash was so great that my
wife and I were awakened by it, and immediately went upstairs and
saw the press and box as described, and we also heard knocking as
we were going upstairs. This caused so much alarm that it was
decided to keep the gas burning in the bedroom every night.
On 3rd Sept. my daughter H., who had been on a visit to us,
left for France to join her husband there. After this, M., my
daughter-in-law, occasionally felt her bed shaken, and my son J.
MABCH, 1908. Oases. 195
sometimes felt as if a hand were trying to draw away his pillow
from under his head. The knockings still continued, and distant
sounds as of some one coming upstairs, turning the handle of door,
and walking about the room were heard by my sons.
On the morning of 8th Dec. about 2.20, M. saw a hand on her
pillow, a long hand with kuotty joints. J., some nights previous
to this, thought he saw a hand come out of the wall ; but as he
considered he might have been mistaken he did not speak of it till
M. spoke of the hand she had seen on her pillow.
On Dec. 16th rappings were heard about midnight, and a small
wash-hand stand, with a folding writing desk on the top of it, was
moved out from wall 6 or 8 inches. J., who was lying awake at
the time, saw this movement and called his mother and me to come
up, which we did, and saw these articles had been shifted as stated.
On llth Dec., about 10.15 a.m., after M. had cleaned out room
(No. 1 ), she went downstairs for a scuttle of coal ; on her return to
the room she found it all in disorder, two basket chairs had been
overturned, ashpan and front of grate removed and laid on the
carpet, and clothing belonging to my sons, which had been hanging
on pegs, a towel from wash-hand stand, a -box from top of chest of
drawers, etc., were all on floor; four pictures had also been taken
from off the wall and laid, glass downwards, on the bed ; all this
had been done without the slightest noise, and nothing was damaged.
Nobody but my wife and daughter-in-law were in the house at the
time, and they were so terrified at all this that they rushed out
into the back garden and remained there for about an hour in the
rain, till a message girl came to the door, and they got a telegram
sent to me to come home, which I did, arriving about one o'clock.
After this the rooms upstairs were vacated, and all slept downstairs.
December 18th, about 10.15 a.m., nearly all the furniture in room
(No. 1) was again overturned, and most of the remaining pictures
were taken down and placed on the bed, face downwards as before,
the looking-glass had also been taken off the table at the window
and laid on the floor along with other things, and a bracket con
taining a number of small volumes of Shakespeare's works was
taken off the chest of drawers and added to the heap. This was
photographed by my eldest son about 11 o'clock same night, and is
shown in photo (A herewith).
December 21st. Whilst my wife and I were in town to-night,
leaving J. and M. and a visitor in the house, three loud smashes
were heard in the lobby, accompanied by knocking.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
December 24th. At the time my wife and I were at church
to-day, my two sons and M. being at home, same things occurred
about 12.25.
December 31st. My wife and M. heard the same this forenoon.
January 1st, 1908. Three loud blows were heard on lobby wall
about 5.40 p.m. by all in the house, including some visitors.
I may mention here it is the habit of old-fashioned people in
Scotland to remain out of bed to bring in the New Year, and very
often friends visit and bring it in along with them.
January 2nd. Three blows on wall of lobby were heard by F.
and M., and also by a visitor.
January 13th. Between 10 and 11 this morning the chest of
drawers in bedroom (No. 1) was found to be out from wall at one
end about eighteen inches or so, and again the bracket of small
volumes, a dressing case and small camera were all on the floor.
My wife and M. were so much frightened that they shut the
house and went to town. On their return, about 4.30, they found
that the arm-chair in the kitchen, which was standing in a corner
when they left, had been placed close to the fire, where my father
used to sit when he came in from the garden on a cold day.
January 15th. This forenoon the chest of drawers was again
moved, the other end being drawn back from the wall ; the bed
was also out of its place, and the arm-chair in same room (No. 1)
was moved from the fireside corner to the window, a distance of
about four yards, and placed in the position where my father used
to sit and watch for us coming home from business at night.
January 18th. Arm-chair in room (No. 1) was again shifted from
fireside to window.
January 20th. Bed in room (No. 1) was moved during the day.
My wife replaced it with head to the wall as usual, but it was
again moved from its position.
January 21st. About 10 o'clock this morning the mattress of bed
in room (No. 1) was found to have been tilted up against rail at
foot of bed ; about 1 1 a.m. M. had occasion to stoop down to get
a box from under a bed downstairs, when the mattress and
bedding were all pulled over her, and she was held down on the
floor, unable to free herself. Her cries brought my wife to her
assistance, and she was released in a fainting condition. About an
hour after this the bed clothes in room (No. 1) were dragged off
the bed and laid on the floor, and a large chest, containing
bedding, etc., opened and some of the contents emptied out. The
MARCH, 1908. Cases. 197
small bracket of books, before alluded to, and a box were also on
the floor, and the arm-chair removed from fireside to window as
before. My wife and M. were so terrified that they again shut up
the house and went out. Photo of bedroom (No. 1) as it appeared
on this occasion is given as B 1 and B 2 ; these are different
views of same scene.
January 22nd. Chest of drawers was taken out from wall and
chairs displaced. My wife rearranged them, but five minutes after
they were found to have been moved again.
January 23rd. Knockings were heard downstairs, but not very
loud. After this date all has remained quiet.
I should mention that from the nature of my father's last illness
a very strong odour was always felt in his room. After his death
the room was thoroughly cleaned and renovated ; some of the old
flooring was taken up and replaced by new boards; the walls were
washed with carbolic, the old paper taken off and the room re-
papered, etc., and painted, so that it was quite fresh again.
Notwithstanding this, whenever any of these extraordinary dis
turbances of the furniture, etc., occurred, the smell returned as
strong as ever.
The daughter-in-law who slept in room (No. 2) had been a nurse
before her marriage, and had nursed old Mr. [the father]
in his last illness.
R. D.
24th Feb., 1908. C. M. D.
J. D.
F. D.
M. R. D.
GLASGOW, 26th February, 1908.
I have acted as solicitor and notary public for the above Mr.
R, D. for almost twenty years past, and I certify that from what I
know of him and his wife and family they would not have signed
the foregoing document without believing and attesting every word
of it to be true according to the best of their knowledge and
belief. S. N. P.
Subconscious time-counting.
In this case it is possible, as the writer says, that some
slight alteration in the ticking note of the clock gave warning
of the impending failure of the spring, for the unconscious
listening faculty seems often more acute than the conscious.
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
34 GRANVILLE ROAD,
BLACKBURN, Nov. 24, 1907.
Dear Sir,—I wish to bring to your notice an instance of what
seems to me to be subconscious time-counting. A colleague of mine,
Mr. F. H. Peachell, who lives in the same house with me, has an
"eight-day" clock (the clock's period has not been exactly deter
mined), which he winds up at irregular intervals. On three
occasions lately the clock has run down and stopped while he has
been working in his room. On each of these occasions, he has
looked up a few minutes before the clock has stopped and said to
himself, " That clock will stop in five minutes."
Yesterday, the occasion of the last premonition, Mr. Peachell,
who thought that it was perhaps some alteration in the ticking
note of the clock that gave warning of the impending failure of
the spring, listened for some moments to the ticking, but, though
he has an acute ear, could detect no difference between the tick of
the clock as it was stopping and its tick when it was immediately
wound up and set going again.
The premonitions have not occurred at regular intervals, for Mr.
Peachell on the first two occasions neglected to wind the clock till
some hours afterwards.
Mr. Peachell cannot say that the clock stopped exactly five
minutes after the premonition, but he states that the interval
between the premonition and its fulfilment has not been longer
than ten minutes.—Yours truly, J. HAMILTON.
P.S.—Mr. Peachell is ready to endorse my account, if it be
necessary.
34 GRANVILLE ROAD,
BLACKBURN, Nov. 27, 1907.
Dear Sir,—I submitted my account to Mr. Peachell before sending
it to you, and he will certify its accuracy.
He tells me he does not remember any premonition having
occurred previous to those I have mentioned.
He treats such things very lightly, and it was only on the third
occasion that his interest in the matter was sufficiently wakened to
tell me of it, although he knew my interest in Psychical Research.
I shall gladly recount any further instances of such premonition
on his part—false or true.—Yours sincerely, J. HAMILTON.
I certify that the account previously given you by Mr. Hamilton
was in all respects accurate. F. H. PEACHELL.
MARCH, 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 199
MRS. EDDY.
BY J. ARTHUR HILL.
(Continued from the January "Journal.")
IN May, 1864, Mrs. Patterson (Mrs. Eddy) paid a visit to her
friend and fellow-patient, Mrs. Sarah G. Crosby, at Albion,
Maine. She was still full of Quimby, and often urged Mrs.
Crosby to " leave her home and go out into the world with
her to teach Quimby's ' Science.' " In character she was still
the superior sort of individual she had always been, expecting
to be waited upon, and taking no part in the domestic routine,
though staying at a farm where every one took a share of
work. To relieve the tedium of this quiet life, Mrs. Patterson
and Mrs. Crosby made spiritistic experiments ; the former, in
apparent trance, purported to be under the control of her
deceased brother Albert, who, it appeared, was Mrs. Crosby's
" guardian spirit." On the occasion of " his " first manifesta
tion Mrs. Crosby was warned not to put full confidence in
Mrs. Patterson—through whose lips the message was coming—
because, in Mrs. Crosby's words, " she might use my sacred
confidence to further any ambitious purposes of her own."
This seems to suggest either that this probably fictitious per
sonality arose from a more honourable part of Mrs. Patterson's
mind than that which formed her supraliminal consciousness,
or that, in her desire to convince her friend of the genuineness
of the control, she was willing to throw some discredit on
her own character. It is of course impossible to decide
between the two explanations, but the idea of genuine trance
is not quite incredible. It is a common thing, as observation
has abundantly shown, for either a hypnotic or a " spontane
ous " secondary personality to exhibit higher moral attributes
than the normal self of the subject. From the further
developments, however, it seems more reasonable to assume
ordinary trickery ; for the supposed trance-personality pro
ceeded to indicate that spirit-letters from "Albert" would be
found under a certain cushion, and, accordingly, a few letters
were from time to time discovered there. It would be
interesting to have an expert's opinion on the handwriting of
these epistles. To a layman, and judging from reproductions,
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MABCH, 1908.
it is obviously Mrs. Patterson's script, disguised by making a
few letters differently from her usual habit. If we wish to
be charitable, however, we may assume that " Albert " was a
subliminal personification analogous to " Sally " in Dr. Morton
Prince's case of " Miss Beauchamp." But his performances in
the way of letter-precipitations are very like those of " Koot
Hoomi " at a later date, and the same explanation will cover
both series of phenomena.1
P. P. Quimby died Jan. 16, 1866, aged sixty-four. He
suffered from abdominal tumour, which he could not cure. Yet
he remained convinced of the truth of his system. So long as
he " retained his mental strength," he said, he could hold
his disease at bay ; but, as he felt this slipping from him,
his " error " rapidly gained upon him. His death was widely
mourned, and there are still many thousands of his followers
in the States, who adhere to his teaching, claiming that, in
its essentials, " Christian Science " is precisely his system. On
his decease, Mrs. Patterson wrote to Mr. Julius A. Dresser,
who was a Quimby convert and disciple, suggesting that he
should take up the master's work ; but for various reasons
Mr. and Mrs. Dresser did not see their way to do this. The
field was thus left clear.
Mrs. Patterson, however, was at this time extremely poor,
and her health was again bad. In Jan., 1866, she had a
fall on the ice, which brought on the old spinal trouble, and
complete invalidism again loomed in front of her. However,
she recovered somewhat—she claims to have been miraculously
cured in a day or two by her discovery of " Christian
Science," but her letter to Mr. Dresser, and the affidavit of
her medical attendant, Dr. Gushing, amply prove that
this is a mis-statement—and she now seems to have made
definite attempts to put on Quimby's mantle, though more in
the way of teaching than of healing. She visited here and
there among friends, mostly Spiritualists, working at manu
script which it was understood was to be a book on mental
healing : she constantly talked of Quimby, and of the way in
which she meant to develop his theories. In the winter of
1866-67 Mrs. Patterson met (at a boarding-house in Lynn) a
'In Science and Health, p. 71, the author says: "I never could believe in
Spiritualism."
MARCH, 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 201
serious-minded shoe-worker, named Hiram Crafts. He was a
Spiritualist, and was interested in psychic phenomena. Mrs.
Patterson found him a willing listener, and to him her tale
she taught, in accordance with her custom whenever she could
find anybody who would attend to her harangues. Shortly
afterwards, she went to live with the Crafts at East Stoughton
—now Avon—and continued her instruction. In the spring of
1867 Mr. and Mrs. Crafts—with Mrs. Patterson—went to
Taunton, where Crafts opened an office. He was the first of
Mrs. Patterson's pupils to go into practice, and she remained
with him as consultant and adviser. Soon, however, domestic
friction occurred, in consequence—it is said—of Mrs. Patterson
trying to persuade Crafts to divorce his wife; and the wanderer
was again turned adrift. Her father was now dead, she had
quarrelled with her sister Abigail, and her son was living
with friends who had brought him up, his mother having sent
him away in infancy. This last fact, of her unmotherly and
unnatural lack of affection for her only child, is a specially
unpleasant feature : she denies it, claiming that there was a
plot to keep the boy from her, but there seems little doubt
that her statement is unreliable.
After leaving the Crafts Mrs. Patterson drifted about, here
and there, largely among Spiritualists, teaching her doctrine
of Quimbyism to any one who would listen, and no doubt
continuing to work at her manuscript. In 1870 she turned
up again at Lynn, Mass., with a pupil named Eichard
Kennedy, a lad of nearly twenty-one. She had found that
she had little success in healing, but she could inspire
enthusiasm in others by teaching. Her theories would claim
no attention unless accompanied by practical demonstrations ;
hence the need of working with one of her pupil-practitioners.
Accordingly, she and Kennedy took offices in Lynn, and " Dr.
Kennedy " appeared on a signboard affixed to a tree.
Immediate success crowned the venture. Patients thronged the
waiting-rooms. Kennedy did the " healing," and Mrs. Patterson
organised classes, the members of which were recruited from
the ranks of patients and their friends. The fees at first
were one hundred dollars for the course of twelve lessons, but
this was afterwards raised to three hundred dollars for a course
of seven lessons. For the first time in her life Mrs. Patterson
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
was free from financial stress. She had got a start on the
ladder of fortune ; but she did not allow partial success to
enervate her. Though now in her fiftieth year, she was more
energetic and determined than ever. She quarrelled with
Kennedy eventually, and in the spring of 1872 they separated;
but Mrs. Patterson was left with about six thousand dollars
in cash as her share of the proceeds. After the separation,
Kennedy took other offices in Lynn—then a town of about
thirty thousand inhabitants—and Mrs. Glover (as she was
known at this time) stayed at the old rooms for some months,
afterwards moving about among friends and boarding-houses.
At this period she still frequented spiritualistic stances, and
it is on record that she went into trance, purporting to be
controlled by Jesus Christ or one of the Apostles ! She
explained that, owing to the purity of her life, no lower
Intelligence could control her. Mrs. Eddy was never remark
able for excessive depreciation of her own gifts and virtues ;
the curious thing is that she found so many people who
accepted her at her own valuation.
In 1875 Mrs. Glover bought the house at No. 8 Broad
Street, Lynn, which became the first official headquarters of
Christian Science. She let the first floor to various tenants,
she herself using only the second floor and the attia in which
latter low-ceiled room she completed Science and Health, and
read its first proofs. This little room is consequently the
shrine to which many thousands of the faithful make annual
pilgrimage. Science and Health first appeared in the year of
her move to Broad Street, viz. 1875. Its publication was
financed by two of its author's friends. Finding that it
secured no large sale at once—the first edition was of a
thousand copies—she persuaded her chief practitioner, Daniel
Spofford, to give up his practice and to devote himself to
advertising it and pushing its sale. Spofford's practice was
taken over by another pupil, Asa Gilbert Eddy—a " sewing-
machine agent"—who speedily became a favourite with her,
and whom she married on New Year's Day, 1877.
In Science and Health Mrs. Eddy acknowledges no debt to
Quimby, and indeed in other writings she calls him a
" mesmerist," denying to him the theories and methods which
—as can be shown from her own earlier letters—she
MARCH, 1908. Mrs. Eddy. 203
undoubtedly learnt from him. Her egotism and masterfulness
were such that no second place contented her; and she
probably persuaded even herself, by dint of sufficient repetition,
that her " discovery " was made by direct revelation from
God. No reader of the book will deny that it contains much
sensible exhortation of a moral kind, though he may deny its
originality. The idea of mind-cure by resolute suggestion of
the unreality of matter and disease she probably got from
Quimby ; also, her rather confused notions of a metaphysical
idealism which reduces all reality to spirit. (Both, however,
may have read Emerson, whose famous tract Nature—pub
lished in 1836—contains a fine, though short and unacademical
presentation of the idealist's position.) Almost the only
original parts of Science and Health are those passages in
which the author makes her extravagant claims.1
Mrs. Eddy made the experiment of conducting religious
services in Lynn in 1875. Her students wished it, and she
received five dollars for each address. But the experiment
was not continued, and the first Christian Science Church was
not chartered until 1879. In 1881 she opened the "Massa
chusetts Metaphysical College" in Boston, through which four
thousand students passed in seven years ; and the tide of
prosperity was in full flow. From the psychological point of
view, Mrs. Eddy's life almost ceases to be interesting at this
date. She was sixty years old, and her mind was now fixed
and set in its groove. The days of stress—the developmental
Sturm und Drang—were over ; and the history of her later
years is chiefly a record of how she ruled her followers and
defended positions already occupied.
1 " God had been graciously fitting me during many years for the reception of
this final revelation of the absolute divine Principle of scientific mental heal
ing." P. 107.
"My discovery that erring, mortal, misnamed mind produces all the
organism and action of the mortal body, set my thoughts to work in new
channels, and led up to my demonstration of the proposition that mind is all
and matter is naught as the leading factor in mind-science." P. 109.
"I won my way to absolute conclusions through divine revelation, reason,
and demonstration." Ibid.
"To those natural Christian Scientists, the ancient worthies, and to Christ
Jesus, God certainly revealed the spirit of Christian Science, if not the
absolute letter." P. 483.
204 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE TRANCE STATE.
(To the Editor of the JOURNAL S.P.R.).
DEAR SIR, Feb. 23, 1908.
If permitted I should like to make one or two remarks
upon a subject of great interest, but one which seems, nevertheless,
to have been almost entirely overlooked. It is in connection with
trance states and the difficulties of communicating. For the sake of
argument, then, let us assume that the intelligences that com
municate through the organism of Mrs. Piper—and perhaps of some
other mediums—are spirits of the departed, and that they tempor
arily " possess " the organism of the medium (at least in part) during
the process of communicating. That is the generally held theory, I
believe, and the simplest one to account for the facts. If this be
true it is to be supposed that the normal consciousness of the
medium is in some manner removed, superseded, or withdrawn, and
that only some " vegetable consciousness " remains, as it were, suffi
cient to keep the organism going until the return of the normal
consciousness and normal control by the medium. Meanwhile, the
controlling intelligence is, by supposition, influencing the nervous
mechanism of the medium's body—directly or indirectly through some
etheric medium—and influencing it to write out letters and words
by the usual slow and laborious process. That they do find it slow
and laborious is evidenced by the fact that all possible abbreviations
are adopted—U.D. being used for " Understand " ; " M " is frequently
written "N," and so on. Even in our normal life we know that
thoughts frequently flow faster than we can put them on to paper,
and this would almost certainly be the case with spiritual intelli
gences who have no material brain to hinder their flow of thought.
It is probable that the brain is as much an inhibitory organ as
anything else ; and when this inhibition is removed, it is natural to
suppose that the flow of thought would be far less controllable and
far more automatic than it is with us. It would be impossible for
spirits to check and go on with their stream of thoughts at will as
we do on this hypothesis ; they would be far more automatic and
less under the control of the will. If this were true, it would
account for much of the confusion present in the communications.
Suppose a spirit is trying to communicate some fact or incident in
its past life. It is endeavouring to force this thought through, in
, 1908. Correspondence. 205
the face of great difficulties, and while trying to retain its grasp of
the organism. Now, let us suppose that this stream of thought is
suddenly interrupted by the sitter asking an abrupt question—
referring to another incident altogether and perhaps related to
another time in the communicator's life. Is it not natural to suppose
that, labouring under these difficulties, and lacking the inhibitory
action of the brain, the communicator's mind should wander, and
that he should either think aloud to himself as it were (all
this coming through as confused writing, be it understood), or that
the spirit should lose its grasp of the organism altogether and drift
away ? The mind cannot retain two vivid pictures at the same
time ; either one or the other must grow fogged and dim ; and this
would certainly be so in the case of any communicator, where we
may suppose a certain amount of mental energy—corresponding to
a mental picture perhaps—is necessitated in the very process of
holding the control of the organism. If communications take place
at all in reality, we may well suppose that the difficulties of com
municating would be so great that all clear, systematic thinking
would -be impossible. People seem to imagine that the process of
communicating is as simple as possible, instead of the most delicate
and complicated imaginable—the very difficulty being evidenced by
the rarity of the intelligible communications coming through. If
any one were to try the simple subjective test of closing the eyes
and attempting to conceive his spirit controlling some other person's
organism, he would very easily perceive the tremendous difficulties
in the way of controlling an organism other than his own !
However, my object in writing this letter is not to point out
difficulties of this character, which are probably well understood by
the majority of the readers of this Journal. It is to draw attention
to another fact, and an analogy. Let us take a man in good health,
whose brain and mental functions are normal. Let this man be all
but killed in a railroad accident. In the jar and shock of the
collision this man was thrown (let us say) against an iron post, and
his head badly cut and bruised. He was knocked insensible, and it
was several hours before he returned to the first dim consciousness of
his surroundings. Gradually he would revive. Objects would pre
sent themselves to his eyesight vaguely, indistinctly ; he would " see
men as trees walking." Sounds would be heard, but indistinctly ;
there would be a vague jumble of noises, and no definite and
articulate sounds would be recognized at first, and until conscious
ness was more fully restored. Tactual sensations, smell and touch
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
would probably come last, and be least powerful of all ; they would
not be even distinguishable until consciousness was almost com
pletely normal. All intellectual interests would be abolished, only
the most loving and tender thoughts would be entertained or
tolerable, and these would be swallowed up, very largely, in the
great, central fact that the body and head was in great pain ; that
the memory was impaired, and that anything like normal thinking
and a normal grasp of the organism was impossible. Thoughts
would be scattered, incoherent, and only the strongest stimuli would
focus the attention on any definite object for longer than a few-
moments at a time, and perhaps even these would fail. But if
oxygen gas were administered to such a person, in moderate doses,
he would recover and rally far more quickly and effectually than
if no such stimuli were employed. He would rally more quickly,
and be enabled to think more clearly and consistently—at least pro
tem. In shocks to the living consciousness this would almost
certainly be the case.
Now, when we come to die, the departure of the soul from the
body must be a great strain and stress upon the surviving con
sciousness, and must shock it tremendously—just as the accident
shocked it in the case given above. Certainly this would be so in
the case of all sudden deaths, and in those cases who " die hard " ;
and it is natural to suppose that it would be true, also, more or
less, in every case of death, however natural—since the separation
of consciousness from its brain must be the greatest shock that any
given consciousness could receive in the course of its natural
existence. But after a time the spirit is supposed to outlive and
"get over" this initial shock, and to regain its normal functions
and faculties. In its normal life, it is then supposed to be once
more free and unhampered by any of the bodily conditions that
rendered its manifestation on earth defective. But when this con
sciousness comes once more to communicate, it seems to again take
on the conditions of earth life, i.e. those conditions which were
present when the person died—and this would account for the facts,
often observed, when mediums "take on" the conditions of certain
spirits who are communicating, i.e. they suffer pro tem, from heart
or bowel trouble, pains in the head, etc. Further, this seems to
extend to the mental functions and conditions also. Idiocy and
insanity, e.g., are supposed to gradually wear off, in the next life,
and a gradual return to normal conditions ensue. This is, at least,
the statement made through several mediums, and it is only natural
MARCH, 1908. Correspondence. 207
to suppose that such should be the case. The spirit gradually
returns to a normal mental condition ; but when any attempt is
made to return to the " earth plane," and especially to communicate,
these conditions return with greater or lesser force—varying with
and depending upon the length of time such a person had been
dead, and other considerations. On any theory, the consciousness
must undergo some sort of temporary disintegration, while communi
cating, and must be scattered over a wide field of recollection, while
at the same time attempting to " hold on " to the organism. It
must also be remembered that the flow of thought is far more
automatic than with us. All this being so, we can readily under
stand that any attempt at communication would be attended with
the greatest difficulties, and such a consciousness, if it were con
stantly interrupted with questions, etc., would tend to go to pieces
—to lose its grasp of the organism, and to drift away—only con
fusion and error coming through. This consciousness might be
strengthened and rendered clearer, perhaps, by the presentation of
some object belonging to the person when alive—as, no matter how
explained, this seems to clear the communications. Any means that
can be adopted to render clearer the mind of the communicator, on
the one hand, or improve the condition of the nervous mechanism
of the medium on the other, should therefore be of great utility
and should at least be tried. This being so, I now come to the
heart of my letter—a suggestion that, if followed out, might improve
the physical body of the medium, and hence render the conditions
better from this side—as the presentation of objects might be
supposed to render the conditions better from the other side.
I have pointed out before that, in certain cases, when it is
desirable to restore the consciousness and to render its renewal
more certain and clear (after an accident, e.g., that has knocked a
person senseless) a mixture of oxygen gas is sometimes administered
to the patient in order to produce these results. This being so, I
ask : why may it not be a good idea to administer a diluted mixture
of this gas to the medium when she is in a trance state—and
when a communicator is attemping to convey his thought to the
sitter by means of automatic writing? Might not such an experi
ment be tried, since no harm can come to the medium if the oxygen
be diluted and only sufficiently strong to effect the desired results ?
And might not its administration tend to improve the tone of the
nervous system pro tem., and render clearer the consciousness that
is trying to use it and manifest through it—just as one's own con
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MARCH, 1908.
sciousness might be rendered clearer by the same device ? Of course
such a process might have the effect (especially at first) of breaking
the trance altogether, and of reviving the medium. But if the
medium understood the experiment beforehand, and the process was
also explained to the controls, it is reasonable to suppose that— after
some trials at any rate—the trance would not be broken, and that
better, clearer results would follow. At all events, when some of
our physicians in America are experimenting upon the effects of
various electrical rays upon mediums in a trance, might not this
far simpler and better-understood method be tried with more or
less impunity 1 I at least suggest that it be so tried.
Very truly yours,
HEREWAKD CARRINGTON.
ENDOWMENT FUND FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
ACCOUNT FOR 1907.
RECEIVED.
Balance in band, December 31st,
1906, £410 7 4
Interest on Investments, - 221 15 1
£632 2 5
PAID.
Purchase of £260 Caledonian
Railway 4 % Preference Shares, £300 17 3
Purchase of £260 East Indian
Railway 3i % Debenture Stock, 250 11 6
Cheque Book, - - - - 016
Balance in hand, December 31st,
1907, 80 12 2
£632 2 5
J. G. PIDDINGTON, Hon. Treas.
26th February, 1908. —Examined with passbook and found correct. Securities at Lloyds'
Bank produced. H. ARTHUR SMITH, Hon. Trcas. S.P.R.
No. CCXLVIII.—VOL. XIII. APRIL, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, - 209
Cases, 210
Borne Mysterious Kappings Ex
plained, 218
Automatic Telegraphy, - - - 219
PAGE
Dr. J. D. Quackenbos' "Hypnotic Thera
peutics in Theory and Practice," - 220
Correspondence : Mrs. Piper's Trances, 222
Supplementary Library Catalogue, - 223
Notice : Information Wanted, - - 224
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, MAY igtk, 1908, at 4.15 p.m.
WHEN A
Presidential Address
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
N.B.— Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
CASES.
L. 1169. Collective Visual Hallucination.
THE following case has been sent from America, having been
communicated to the late American Branch by a member of some
years' standing. The people concerned do not wish their names
to be published.
On Sunday afternoon Mr. and Mrs. E., sitting in their own
parlour, saw Mr. E. standing in the doorway. They had been
talking of him a little while before, wondering if he would call.
Mr. E. saw the figure first, and said "There is T. [Mr. R.];"
then Mrs. E. also saw T. Mr. E. was at home (in another
house) and asleep at the time. The case was recorded on
December 6th, 1900, "about two years" after its occurrence.
Dec. 1th, 1900.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—Messrs. E. and E. who give me the enclosed
case of an " Apparition of the Double " have been employed a
number of years in the same office with me, and I know them with
the degree of intimacy that comes to fellow-clerks when the ac
quaintance is not carried out of the office. Mrs. E. I never met
until I called upon her in connection with the case. Mr. and Mrs.
E. are both intelligent, educated persons, and I have no doubt that
the incident is correctly described.
Mr. R., the agent in the case, is an elderly Irishman of extremely
nervous organization. He is a firm believer in Spiritualism, and sits
nearly every night of his life for communications from the other
world, his principal " control " being one of his own children. He
has made some remarkable hits, which might be attributed to tele
pathy or to communication from the dead ; but he receives such a
mass of messages, many of which cannot be verified, and his spirits
are so addicted to prophecy, in which they have indifferent success,
that I have never felt that his successes could be justly estimated
without a complete study of the case (CL la Piper), a task for which
I have neither time nor opportunity, and have therefore never
reported anything to the Society.
Mr. E. told me of his appearance to Mr. and Mrs. E. the morning
after the occurrence, having heard it from Mr. E. At that time
Mr. and Mrs. E. were averse to giving me any statement, and I have
only recently overcome their scruples. I can add that the story has
not grown any since it was first told me.—Sincerely yours, L. T.
APBIL, 1908. Cases. 211
Dec. 6th, 1900.
About two years ago, one Sunday afternoon, I was sitting with
my wife in the back parlor of the flat we then occupied. At that
time Mr. T. E. often spent his Sunday afternoons with us. We
had spoken of him on this occasion, and of the probability of his
calling, but were not specially expecting him or thinking of him.
Happening suddenly to look up I saw Mr. R. standing in the front
parlor, just within the door leading to the passage. I wondered
how he had got in without ringing and without being heard, but
the image was so lifelike that I did not for an instant suspect a
hallucination, and exclaiming "There is T. now," I arose and went
to meet him. The figure persisted until I almost reached it and
then instantly vanished. At my exclamation my wife also looked
and distinctly saw and recognized the figure and also saw its sudden
disappearance. Mrs. E. signs this statement in confirmation, and
in case of publication we request that our names be withheld.
S. P. E.
J. E. E.
Mr. E. told me the foregoing circumstance the day after its occur
rence, while the events of the evening were fresh in my mind. I
can therefore say positively that I was asleep at the time of the
occurrence, and have no recollection of dreaming of Mr. or Mrs. E.
I have been seen "in the double" on other occasions, but I cannot
put them on au evidential basis. rp -n
M. Aut. 105. Ouija-writing.
The. following account was sent to the late American Branch
for record in September, 1896, the incident having occurred
in June of that year, in the presence of Mrs. Booth, a member
of the American Branch. The message given on the board
purported to come from a son of Mrs. Booth who had recently
died, and stated that another son who was alive had just
been giving Pittsfield a visit, a fact unknown to any one
present and not verified until the following week.
"THE PINES."
MONTERY, BERKSHIRE Co., MASS.,
Friday, Sept. 1\tli, 1896.
DR. RICHARD HODGSON,
Dear Sir,—I have recently become a member of the S.P.R., and
being greatly interested in the subjects discussed, apply to you for
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
the solution of a mysterious experience which has recently occurred
to me, or in my presence.
On the 16th of June (Monday), of the present year, accompanied
by a lady friend, Miss Loop, of Gt. Harrington, I left that place
to pay a visit to a lady living in the village of Burnt Hills,
Saratoga Co., N. York. In order to reach this place, as illustrating
its remoteness of connexion with Gt. B., I will say that we were
obliged to make five changes of cars, leaving the railroad finally
at Ballston Lake, and from there taking a drive of about 1£ miles.
We remained one week, and during that time never met any person
whom we ever met before or who had to our knowledge ever been
in Gt. Barrington, or know any one from that place. The lady
whom we visited, Mrs. Orcutt, is, of course, excepted. We arrived
there at about 5 p.m. Monday the 16th. Wednesday p.m. the
18th, it being rainy, my friends interested themselves much in cards,
in which games I did not join. In the evening the games were
resumed, and did not appear to come out satisfactorily, both parties
remaining somewhat puzzled and preoccupied. (I mention this for a
reason.) About 10 p.m. Mrs. 0. said, "This is dull for Mrs. B.
As she says she is somewhat interested in 'Ouija' perhaps she
would like to see it move a little." Here I may say that I have
no power over the Ouija or any form of automatic writing, and
have never in my life attended a seance, or consulted any medium.
Miss Loop and Mrs. Orcutt appear to have power to move Ouija,
but neither of them is specially interested. Mrs. O. dislikes to use it,
and on this occasion specially Miss L. protested. "No, it is too
late, I am tired, and I don't feel in any mood to try it. I can
only think about the strange way those cards came out, etc."
Mrs. 0. did not own a board, but sent over that p.m. and borrowed
one for my benefit, but it had not been touched until then. I said
I did not care to have them try it too late, etc. But they put
their hands listlessly upon the board, and immediately it moved, with
great rapidity, so fast indeed that none of us could follow its
meaning. Miss Loop said, " It is evidently doing nothing. Let
us stop." However, I said, "I will get paper and pencil, and try
to take down some letters. Perhaps we may make something yet."
After some delay in getting paper ready—Ouija meantime going on
rapidly—I took down about a line and a half, incoherent from start,
and then the following, not deciphering the message until some minutes
after I had written the letters : " Charles Booth is just been giving
Pittsfield a visit. Did you know it or not t "
APRIL, 1908. Oases. 213
Then followed a message purporting to be from my deceased son,
which was apparently intended to be verified as such by the above
given message, used as a test. Now I can furnish you with the
positive statements of all parties concerned that no one, or either
of us had any such idea in our minds or even caught the message
as it was being written by Ouija. No one of us had any reason
whatever to think of such a thing or any knowledge about Charles
Booth's visiting Pittsfield, and we all exclaimed " How queer ! It
is not at all likely to be true." Nor did we have any idea what
time was referred to for the visit. When I went home the next
week, I asked my son if he had been away from home during my
absence (without mentioning the incident). "No," he said. "Have
you not been anywhere?" "No. Why do you ask?" "Oh," I
said, "I only just picked up here on the balcony a Pitts, evening
paper, etc. ; did not know but you had been there." " Oh," my
son said, "I just went up to Pittsfield, a flying visit, the very day,
Monday, you went away. I went up at 2 p.m. and came back at
5 p.m. Went on masonic business. Didn't think of that."
I should say here that my son does not believe in Spiritualism
and has an intense dislike for it,—including Ouija, and all forms
of mediumship and " occult " things generally. He is of specially
quiet, gentle, reserved temperament, and never announces beforehand
his intentions, comings or goings. When I told him the circumstance,
he looked astonished, and when I asked him what he thought of it,
he said, " I think nothing about it. I don't know what it is, nor
does any one else know, but whatever it is, it is disagreeable. I
don't like it." I will say here that I do not share his dislike.
I have written at great length because I did not know what to
retrench from these details in a matter which (apparently trivial)
impresses me, taken in connexion with some previous experiences, as
of very great importance.
I cannot rest until I get some opinion of your Society about it.
I have very special reasons for being greatly interested in your Society,
and in what I hope may be its outcome, the overthrow of a gross
materialism, the scientific proof of the reality, and the independence
of mind over matter. I have read with interest all the Society's
publications for the past two years, also Prof. Newbold's Articles
in Pop. Science (except the last), but I most respectfully submit
that the hypothesis offered by Prof. N. does not cover this case (or
for that matter the majority of cases). As I understand the matter
it could neither have been telepathy or clairvoyance. It was not
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
contemporaneous. I have a crude theory of my own, which I submit
with all diffidence. Of course I am entirely unscientific. The sub
liminal consciousness may be roughly regarded as a rim surrounding
and projecting beyond the circumference of the normal ordinary
consciousness into a transcendent universe.
Upon this projected consciousness may be from time to time de
posited (so to speak) intelligence of past or coming events, inspira
tions, consolations, or demoniac suggestions, or trivialities in various
forms. The impact of these various deposits constitutes a mysterious
force which conveys them to the upper consciousness, or impresses
them through the nervous system upon material things. The nature
of this force and the mode of its action are unknown. Now these
various deposits are from various sources, all supernormal, some tele
pathic from discarnate spirits, and as various in character as are the
different sources from whence they proceed ; conditioned also, more
or less, in ways we cannot comprehend, by the medium through
whom they pass. Many are from weak, foolish spirits,—many from
evil ones,—some from dear friends departed, and even from angelic
ministrants,—and finally many are inspirations,—and answers to our
prayers and aspirations from the Infinite Spirit, " In whom we live
and move, and have our being." The subliminal consciousness, what
ever else it may be and whatever may be its functions, may yet be
the medium of communication with other minds without the inter
vention of the brain. (MRg }
Gx. HARRINGTON, Oct. 1th, 1896.
DR. RICHARD HODGSON,
Dear Sir,—Your letter of Sept. 30th was duly received. I have
sent a copy of it to my friend Mrs. Orcutt of Burnt Hills, asking
her to furnish a statement such as you wish. I have also shown
your letter to Miss Loop, and she will also give you her statement.
My son will also testify as to his going to Pittsfield, etc. I will
forward them all to you as soon as received. I certainly did not
have my hands on the Ouija board. The incident seems to me
to be one of a series of messages. We have had none since. It
will be impossible to have more with Mrs. Orcutt. I hope Miss
Loop may have some results with another lady, a very intelligent
person who is anxious to try for results.
I will, after a little while, send you the identical paper on which
I wrote the Ouija message about Pittsfield. Since writing you last,
APRIL, 1908. Cases. 215
I have discovered on the first line what I think may be intended
for "E. Ferry," but I did not discover it until then, nor did Miss
L. or Mrs. 0. I will send you the paper, and you can judge for
yourself. It is written thus in the paper—eferey—and follows other
letters as if it were at the close of a sentence. I cannot account
for errors in spelling or grammar. In rapid movements of Ouija,
the letter is often doubled almost imperceptibly, and so it was
probably double r. When one, not an expert, tries to render a
strain of music on a piano they often strike false notes (letters)
without intending to do so. The medium probably conditions in
some respects unconsciously the message unknown to us, that is,
its condition, not its substance. If the last message was from Mr.
Ferry, it makes the identity of the other very probable.
Yours very sincerely,
LUCY C. BOOTH.
GT. BARRINGTON, Oct. llth, 1896.
DR. EICHARD HODGSON,
Dear Sir,—I enclose the statements which you wish, also the
identical paper jiist as I wrote it down from Ouija, on the evening
of June 18th last. You will thus see that Mrs. Orcutt was a
little at fault in her memory of the message. As she kept no
record, it is not, I think, strange that she should not be accurate.
You will no doubt notice all the minor discrepancies in the
statements. I sat near the board, but not in contact with it, near
enough to see by the light of a shaded lamp. I cannot remember
precisely who first proposed Ouija.
Mrs. Orcutt quite likely called out some of the letters, but I
also watched the board. Miss L. I am sure paid very little heed
and was only anxious to get through. She thought it was spelling
nothing. Mrs. Orcutt did not, nor did I, read any words until
all was finished, but she caught the last word Orcutt, her own
name, because Miss Loop stopped Ouija taking off her hands and
Mrs. 0. said, "Oh I think it is saying something or going to, for
I have just seen my name." There is something to be said about
the last message. They commenced again, and then we all caught
the last message as it was coming on the board. Mrs. 0. was
very kind to my son Le Roy, whom she met when he was an
invalid in a Southern City and he visited her at Burnt Hills, and
afterwards she helped me to nurse him in that same city in his
last illness, consequently he was attached to her. We had both
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
spoken of the probability of his being pleased, if he could know-
it, to have me there, but not on that evening had we said so. Now
that fact counts, as you will see, neither for or against the spiritual
istic theory.
I think the t in Pittsfield was undoubtedly doubled. If I had
read the word I should doubtless have seen it doubled.
Yours respectfully,
LUCY C. BOOTH.
P.S.—Where a letter is inserted there was a slight hesitancy—
where in parenthesis, doubtful. Please note change of tense in last
message.
I should like to have this paper returned to me at your con
venience. Keep as long as you wish it.
In the word Charles, the c, which should come first, is placed
after the harles,—(as if it were a correction).
Yes-G-UIDE-u-s-e- | wi-t-h | -e-f-e-r-e-y |
e — f-w-l-i- (m) -s-f-h-a-r-l — e-s-c-bo-o-t-h-i-s
-j-u-s-t-gi-v-e-n-p-i-tt-s-f-i-e-1-d-a-i-s—
i_t-d-i-d-y-o-u-k-n-o-w-i-t-or-n-o-t — i — f-y
-o-u-w-a-n-t-t-o-y- (to) -r-o-y-a-m-p-u-t-o-rr
c-u- t- t
Eoy | i-s | -d-e-a-d | -h-e | -i-s | -g-l-a-d |-y-o-u |
-a-r-e | -h-e-r-e | -w-i-t-h | -M-r-s-o-r-c-u-t-t |
-I | -w-i-s-h | -i- | c-o-u-l-d- | b-e | -t-h-e-r-e |
-t-oo-w | -i-t-h- | y-o-u-
Ouija, June 18th, 1894.
BURNT HILLS, Oct. 8th, 1896.
MY DEAR MRS. BOOTH,
On June 16th, in the evening we had been playing cards, and
after playing for some time we stopped and took up the Ouija
board. I had not even thought of Charles Booth, and, in fact, did
not know what Ouija was spelling. You seemed interested and took
a paper and wrote down the letters as Ouija stopped at them, and
one of us called them off (you were not sitting very near us at the
time), and strange to say, after it finished, you read off, Charles
Booth paid a visit to Pittsfield, did you know it. And then it wrote
APRIL, 1908. Cases. 217
something in regard to Eoy's being glad you were here—I cannot
remember just what. My arms pained me so I was obliged to stop,
and they ached so I could not sleep for some time after retiring.—
In haste, yours very truly, ELIZA C. ORCUTT.
GREAT HARRINGTON, MASS.
Dear Sir,—Mrs. Booth and I left home on Monday morning,
June 16th, for Burnt Hills, N.Y. On Wednesday evening, the
18th, Mrs. Booth expressed a desire that Mrs. Orcutt and I should
" try the Ouija board."
We had both been playing cards, and felt rather tired—not quite
in the right mood—but complied with Mrs. B.'s request. We com
menced about ten o'clock (if I remember). Ouija moved readily—
at random—and I proposed stopping. The letters were towards
Mrs. O. and my hands nearly concealed them from my view. I had
nothing in mind, and was not on the alert for letters or words.
Mrs. Booth was interested, sat near, and wrote the letters as they
came. She has the exact sentence—I think it was this : Charles
Booth is just given Pittsfield a visit, did you know it or not?
I had not seen Mr. Booth for some time before we left Gt. B.
and knew nothing whatever of him or his plans. He is a very
reticent, reserved man, and one whom I seldom meet. Neither Mrs.
Booth nor I had heard from home. Her son had not spoken to her
about going to P. I had not thought of him, and should never
connect him with Pittsfield. I write fully in regard to him, that
you may know how very unexpected and " accidental " this message
was. When we found that he had really visited that town after
our departure—and before we tried " Ouija," it certainly seemed a
strange coincidence.—Very respectfully, M. A. LOOP.
Oct. 8th, 1896.
NATIONAL MAHAIWE BANK,
GREAT BARRINGTON, MASS., Oct. 12th, 1896.
RICHARD HODGSON, LL.D.
Dear Sir,—On Monday, June 16th, '96, I went to Pittsfield on
business. 1 left here on the 1 p.m. train and returned the same
evening at 9.15.
My mother and Miss Loop left here for Burnt Hills, N.Y., that
same day at 10 a.m. I did not tell either of them of my intended
trip to Pittsfield, nor did I afterwards communicate the fact to them.
I do not understand the case and have no theory whatever about
it.—Respectfully yours, C. H. BOOTH.
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
SOME MYSTERIOUS RAPPINGS EXPLAINED.
THE following account is contributed by a correspondent who has
long been interested in Psychical Eesearch :
July 1st, 1907.
Rather more than a year ago I awoke suddenly one morning
about 3 o'clock hearing " raps " in my room. My first impression
was that they were in the floor at the side of the bed, and in the
wall a few feet off parallel with it, and that I had been awakened
by their violence. For some minutes after waking I was quite sure
that they were in the floor, but after I had switched on the electric
light and listened further, it was obvious that they were only in
the wall, which was a partition formed of a wooden framework
covered with canvas and papered, and hung with a light bookshelf,
and a few pictures and photo-frames. The raps occurred in different
parts of it—sometimes singly, but generally in groups of from 2 to
5 taps, which were clear and distinct, as if made with the end of
a pencil. They lasted for more than an hour, when they gradually
became fainter and less frequent, and ceased. I examined the wall
and the furniture near it, but could find nothing to account for them.
The following night the raps commenced a few minutes after I
had switched off the light. As on the preceding night, they appeared
to be insistent and animated, and I realised that I was thinking
that they were due to supernormal agency. When I had convinced
myself of the probable absurdity of this and the greater likelihood
of their being due to something in the hollow partition, the raps
became mechanical and lifeless—proving that their animated and
insistent character had been purely subjective. They continued for
a short time, became fainter and ceased.
After this, I heard them at irregular intervals for some weeks,
and they were always clear and distinct. One morning—the first
time, I think, that I heard them in the day-time—I succeeded in
locating one group, and standing on a chair I saw the papered
canva13 covering move outwards, away from the wooden framework, in
little jerks along one of the nails in the wall, each little jerk making
a rap through the rubbing of the canvas on the nail. The move
ment was so slight that it could not be seen by any one standing
on the floor; but when I was near enough to the nails in the
different parts of the wall to examine them closely, it was perfectly
clear to me that they were the means by which the "raps" were
produced. The irregular recurrences of the rappings and the vary
APBIL, 1908. Some Mysterious Rappings Explained. 219
ing degrees of force with which they occurred were due, no doubt,
to certain conditions of the wind, and to its means of access to the
partition, either in my room or in the one on the other side of it.
N. I.
AUTOMATIC TELEGEAPHY.
THE following short account by a young officer of Marines of an
early experience of his when learning wireless telegraphy is, as
an illustration of automatism, obviously analogous to the more
familiar phenomena of ouija or planchette writing. We are
asked not to publish the names of our correspondents ; the case
is sent by Mrs. E., an Associate of the Society, who writes :
1st Feb., 1908.
DEAR SIR,—I handed your note of Jan. 27, with reference to the
experiences of operators in wireless telegraphy, to my nephew,
H. T. G., who wrote to his friend M. C.'s mother on the subject.
I enclose her reply to him and the extracts from M. C.'s letter
describing his experience. On receiving these I wrote to Mrs. C.,
whom I do not know personally, asking her to date the extracts
and also to permit you to enter into direct correspondence with her,
as I hear from my nephew that she has herself tried automatic
writing and is much interested in the matter. I enclose her reply.
M. C. has been here with my nephew, when he was at home
on leave. He is an able, rising young officer, and now an expert
telegraphist. I was much struck by his description of the curious
intensification of auditory power which wireless experts attain. In
the open sea what is silence to other men is to them broken at
times by strange sounds which they cannot describe or explain.
M. W. E.
Jan. 28th, '08.
Dear Mr. G.— I enclose the paragraph you wanted. I have sent
exactly what he wrote. I think he was a little over 20 at the
time. F. S. C.
Jan. 2\.st, 1905.
(Copy of letter from M. C.)
I made a very curious discovery at telegraphy (wireless) yesterday.
You know how a telegraph key is made. You work the key B
with your finger, and tap against the metal block C, thus working
220 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
a similar key at 'the other end. Of course you can adjust the space
A to what size you like. If you are skilful, and have a very fine
touch, you have it very small indeed. Yesterday I was transmitting
at about 40 to 50 words a minute, and proposed to go a little
V.
quicker, so I kept on screwing down to a smaller and smaller space.
When the space was almost infinitesimal I stopped working for a
minute, and started reading the book I was sending from, to see
what came next. Suddenly, while my hand was on it, the key
started transmitting at an extraordinary speed, I should judge about
400 words a minute. The yeoman of signals at the other end said
it was much too fast for him to read. I knew what it was, as I
was doing it. It was simply the words in the book I was reading.
I asked the yeoman what this meant. He said it was quite common,
and was merely your nerves working the key at an extraordinary
fine adjustment. He said no one but the sender could ever read
the message, as you transmitted it at exactly the same pace as you
were reading. It seems to me that this is a very concrete explana
tion of all the involuntary motion on planchette, etc.
DE. J. D. QUACKENBOS' "HYPNOTIC THERAPEUTICS IN
THEORY AND PRACTICE."
IN a book which has just appeared, by Dr. John Duncan Quac-
kenbos, Hypnotic Therapeutics in Theory and Practice, the author
gives some valuable illustrations of clairvoyance and other super
normal faculties. The most striking case is that of Anna Fortwanger,
a peasant girl of Southern Germany, ignorant of English, who was
brought in November, 1904, to the author's office in New York by
her employer, who was at the time a member of the English S.P.R.
The girl's master then and there threw her into a hypnotic sleep,
the genuineness of which was tested by various methods. The girl
was then directed to proceed ("in the Spirit," that is) out of the
room, to pass up two flights of stairs, to enter a large front room
with an alcove in it, and to describe what she saw there. Neither
the girl nor her employer had ever been in the house before.
The directions and the questions were all put in German by the
hypnotiser, and the answers were of course also in that language.
APRIL, 1908. Review. 221
"I. What do you see?
'A round table with books on it.'
(The table stood in front of the door, and would naturally attract
immediate attention.)
II. What else do you see?
'A large picture of a lady on the wall.'
(My wife has an engraving of a Raphael Madonna over the mantel,
and three other pictures.)
Describe them.1
'One is a picture of a horse.'
(This answer I regarded as an error ; but a subsequent inspection
of the room disclosed on the mantel shelf, under the Madonna,
a small photograph of one of my horses, sent to the house a day or
two before, and placed there inadvertently by my wife.)
III. What else do you see ?
'Seven chairs.'
(No member of the family was aware that there were so many
chairs in the room.)
IV. Is there anything else in the room you would like to speak of?
'Yes, a bed with a little darling.'
Do you mean a doll ?
'No, a real live darling.'
Describe her.
' She has light hair, and is pretty.'
How old would you say she is ?
'Eight years.'
(The exact age of my little daughter Kathryn, who was asleep in
the alcove.) . . .
Witness : John H. Thompson, Jr., Old Bridge, New Jersey.
At a second seance the same fall there were present Mrs. Jordan
L. Mott, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett, Miss Evelina S. Hamilton,
Mr. William S. Walsh, of the New York Herald, Mrs. Leslie Cotton,
the portrait painter. A room on the second floor was selected for
the experiment, which again was a terra incognita both to operator
and subject. The questions were put :
What do you see ?
'A bed.'
What is on the bed?
'A folded quilt.'
What is on the quilt ?
'A fox.'
(I had placed a folded comforter on the bed as a support for a
fox-skin with a stuffed head, which I fancied would engage Anna's
subjective attention—and it did. She is quick to perceive animals.)
What else do you see?
' A picture of a man and a picture of a woman.'
1 It is not expressly stated that the clairvoyant had mentioned the existence
of other pictures ; probably the conversation is not narrated verbatim.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
Where 1
'On the wall beside the bed.'
(Pictures of George and Martha Washington, in colour, hung on
that wall, above the headboard.)
What else?
' A commode with round drawers.'
(Quite an original description of an old mahogany bureau with
drawers conspicuously convexed.)
What else?
' A green flower.'
(I had placed an araucaria on a^stand near the centre of the room.)
Any other pictures ?
'Yes, many large ones.'
(The walls ,were covered.)
Do you see one over the mantel?
'Yes.'
What do you see in it?
'A poodle hund.'
(There is in the foreground of the painting a man returning from
the hunt, with a gun on his shoulder and a spaniel trotting by his
side. The animal appealed to Anna at once.) "
The same subject gave other proofs of clairvoyance or mind-reading.
Dr. Quackenbos also quotes an illustration of a new form of clair
voyance, which he calls X-ray vision. The clairvoyant was Leo
Brett, the twelve-year-old son of Dr. F. M. Brett, formerly Professor
of Bacteriology and Physical Diagnosis in the College of Physicians
and Surgeons at Boston. The boy asserted in the hypnotic state
that he could see the bones in the human body. He furnished
various proofs of that faculty. In one case, quoted at length by
Dr. Quackenbos, the boy was asked to examine a young man's arm.
More than a year previously the man had sustained a severe shoot
ing accident—some hundreds of small pellets having lodged in his
arm. Most of them had been removed, but the X-rays still showed
some remaining. The boy, knowing nothing of the accident, saw
many small holes in the arm : the holes, it appeared on close
inquiry, corresponded in position with the pellets as shown by the
X-rays.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MRS. PIPER'S TRANCES.
3rd April, 1908.
(To the Editor of the JOURNAL S.P.R.).
DEAR SIR,—I should like, though rather late in the day, to draw
attention to a statement contained in the " Report of the Council
for 1907 " (Journal for February, p. 187) which is likely to convey
an erroneous impression.
It is there stated that Mrs. Piper during her recent stay in Eng
land gave seventy-four sittings of an average duration of two hours
APRIL, 1908. Correspondence. 223
and a half. The word " sitting " is ambiguous, but I imagine it was
used to mean the trance, or, if not so used, that at least it would
generally be taken in that sense.
As a matter of fact the average duration of the trance did not
exceed two hours. I should be glad if you would insert this ex
planation, not only because I promised Mrs. Piper that the trance
should not exceed two hours, but also because, even had no such
promise been given, I am strongly of opinion that to exceed that
limit is inadvisable. Indeed, I think it would be wise to reduce
the duration of Mrs. Piper's trance to an hour and three-quarters.—
Yours faithfully, j_ G> pIDDINGTON.
SUPPLEMENTAEY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Books added to the Library since the last List, JOURNAL for December, 1906.
*Aksakof (A.), Animisme et Spiritisms. Paris, 1906.
tAnalecta Bollandiana. Vols. I.-XXV. Brussels, 1882-1906.
Angevin (I. Bodin), De la Demonomanie des Sorciers. Antwerp, 1593.
Bastian (H. Charlton, M.D., F.B.S.), Aphasia and other Speech De
fects. London, 1898.
*Bates (E. Katharine), Seen and Unseen. London, 1907.
*Beers (C. W.), A Mind that Found Itself.
London, New York, Bombay, and Calcutta, 1908.
Besant (Annie), H. P. Blavatsky and The Masters of the Wisdom.
London, Benares, and Adyar, 1907.
*Binet (Alfred), The Mind and the Brain. London, 1907.
*Boirac (Emilo), La Psychologie Inconnue. Paris, 1908.
§Brown (J. H.), Spectropia. London, 1865.
Carrington (Hereward), The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism.
Boston, 1907.
* Vitality, Fasting, and Nutrition.
New York, 1908.
tCatalogus Codicum Hagiographicorum Bibliothecse Regiae Bruxellensis.
Vols. I. and II. Brussels, 1886, 1889.
tCatalogus Codicum Hagiographicorum Latinorum Biblioth. Nat.
Parisiensis. Vols. I.-III. Brussels, 1889, 1890, 1893.
Chazarain (Dr.), Les Courants de la Polarite'. Paris, 1887.
*Clouston (T. S., M.D.), The Hygiene of Mind. London, 1906.
**Delehaye (H.), Les Legendes Hagiographiques. Brussels, 1906.
Deschamps (Alfred, M.D.), A Modern Miracle. Glasgow, 1906.
*Dupouy (Dr. E.), Psychologie Morbide. Paris, 1907.
ttDyer (Helen S.,) Revival in India. London, 1907.
Eddy (Mrs.), Science and Health. Boston, 1907.
*Flammarion (Camille), Mysterious Psychic Forces. Boston, 1907.
Forel (Dr. August), Hypnotism. London and New York, 1906.
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1908.
**Funk (I. K., LL.D.), The Psychic Kiddle.
New York and London, 1907.
Fursac (J. Rogues de), Un Mouvement Mystique Contemporain.
Paris, 1907.
tGielemans (I.), Anecdota. Brussels, 1895.
*Hamilton (Mary), Incubation. St. Andrews and London, 1906.
**Krebs (S. Le P.), The Law of Suggestion. Chicago, 1906.
*Lapponi (Dr. J.), Hypnotism and Spiritism. London, 1906.
*Myers (F. W. H.), Human Personality. Abridged edition.
London, New York, and Bombay, 1907.
* Fragments of Prose and Poetry.
London, New York, and Bombay, 1904.
JEenterghem (Dr. A. W. van), La Psychotherapie dans ses differents
Modes. Amsterdam, 1907.
Bibot (Th.), Essai sur les Passions. Paris, 1907.
Storring (Gustav), Mental Pathology and Normal Psychology.
London, 1907.
*Tuckey (C. Lloyd, M.D.), Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion.
Fifth edition. London, 1907.
* Presented by the Publisher. ** Presented by the Author.
t Presented by the Societe des Bollandistes. tt Presented by Eev. A. T. Fryer.
§ Presented by A. M. Box, Esq. { Presented bj Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
NOTICE: INFORMATION WANTED.
WE should be very glad if any reader of the Journal can refer
us to the sources of the following, which we believe to be
quotations :
(1) " He the strong smiter—the earth-compeller."
(2) " One star in the crimson West
And the East is cold and grey,
And the weary earth shall turn to her rest
At the end of the winter's day."
(3) "Primus inter pares."
This phrase, possibly of legal origin, has often been used in
reference to the Head of the Roman Catholic Church. We
are asked to find out on what occasion it was first used in
this connection, and to which Pope or Popes it was specially
applied. Any information on the subject should be sent to
THE EDITOR,
Society for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square,
LONDON, W.
No. CCXLIX.—VOL. XIII. MAY, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
New Members and Associates, 220
Meeting of the Council 227
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 227
Cases 228
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUBSDA Y, MA Y igth, 1908, at 4.15 p.m.
WHEN A
Presidential Address
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
N.B.— Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
226 Jowned of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ALABASTER, EDWARD P., Kilworth Hotel, Kildare St., Dublin.
Ashley, Mrs. Wilfred, The Grove, Stanmore, Middlesex.
Barnes, Claude T., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
BATH, HUBERT, 7D Grove End Ed., St. John's Wood, London, N.W.
BETHELL, MRS., Normanton, S. Farnboro, Hants.
BLACKLOCK, Miss CHARLOTTE, 51 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, S.W.
BoGGiS-EoLFE, D. H., 69 St. George's Sq., London, S.W.
Brown, Bertram Goulding, M.A., 46 Regents' Park Rd., London,
N.W.
BULLER, MRS. C. F., 46 Clarendon Rd., Bedford.
BULLOCK, A. H., 82 Savernake Rd., Gospel Oak, London, N.W.
COATES, C. J., The Thornton Woollen Mill Co., St. Petersburg, Russia.
Cooke, Mrs., Hadley House, North Finchley, London, N.
DAVIES, MRS. G. R., Forest Hill, Hartford, Cheshire.
DOYLE, DR. THEODORE, 1001 East 15th St., Kansas City, Mo., U.S.A.
HANNAY, MRS., Wren's Nest, Wellington Rd., Bromsgrove.
HASLEHURST, E. W., 72 Burnt Ash Hill, Lee, London, S.E.
HENDERSON, J. J., C.E., F.R.S.G.S., etc., 182 Winthrop St., Flatbush,
Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hughes, Mrs., Bryn Hawddgar, Llanarthney, R.S.O., Carmarthenshire.
JACKSON, MRS., 78 Kenilworth Court, Putney, London, S.W.
KWANG, SIM BOON, 73 Scotts Rd., Singapore, S.S.
KENWAY, MRS., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
LARKEN, E. P., 19 Victoria Grove, Kensington, London, W.
Legg, William Andrew, P.O. Box 1621, Cape Town, S. Africa.
MARSTON, CHARLES, J.P., Afcot, Compton, Wolverhampton.
NEELE, Miss M. E. KINGSTON, 23 Upper Addison Gardens, London, W.
NUNN, THOMAS PERCY, M.A., D.Sc., London Day Training College,
Southampton Row, London, W.C.
O'DONNELL, ELLIOTT, F.R.S.L., Clifton House, St. Ives, Cornwall.
OSBORNE, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Str., Hampstead,
N.W.
PARKIN, JOHN, M.A., F.L.S., Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
PENHA, PAUL DE LA, 41 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
MAY, 1908. New Members and Associates. 227
EAE, JAMES, Villa Laurel, San Jacopo, Leghorn, Italy.
SCOTT, CLINTON 0., Bureau of Education, Manila, P.P.
ST. HILL, MRS., Thimbles, Littlewick Green, Maidenhead.
SMITH, Miss JULIA, Assisi, Drayton Court, S. Kensington.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 36 Comeragh Ed., West Kensington.
Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, S.W.
SULMAN, HENRY L., F.I.C., M.I.M.M., etc., 31 The Avenue, Brondes-
bury Park, N.W.
TYLER, PROFESSOR C. M., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
TUDOR, OWEN S., Friday's Hill, Hasleraere.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 90th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, March 30th, 1908, at
6 p.m.—Mrs. Henry Sidgwick in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.,
Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, the Hon. Everard Feilding, the
Eev. A. T. Fryer, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Mr. St. G. L. Fox
Pitt, Mr. Frank Podmore, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, Lieut-Colonel G. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey,
Miss Alice Johnson, Eesearch Officer, and Mr. R. A. H. Bick-
ford-Smith, Secretary.
The minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members and thirty-one new Associates were
elected. Their names are given above.
The monthly accounts for January and February, 1908,
were presented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 22nd Meeting for Members and Associates only was held
at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday, March 30th,
1908, at 4 p.m.—the President, Mrs. Sidgwick, in the chair.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S., read a paper on " A
Recent Case of a Veridical Phantasm of the Dead," which is
printed below, with a report of the account given to the
meeting by the percipient herself.
Miss C. MILES read a paper on " Experiments in Thought-
transference," which will appear later in the Journal.
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
CASES.
G. 283. Apparition seen soon after death.
This case was sent to Professor Barrett, who read a report
on it at the private meeting of the Society held on March 30th.
He received it from his friend MacLeod of MacLeod, who
was a friend and superior officer of the subject of this narrative,
who is here called Capt. Arthur Oldham.1
In the obituary notice of Capt. Oldham which appeared in
the Field shortly after his death, he is described as a very
fine specimen of an English gentleman, and " the greatest
elephant hunter of this or any age." A pioneer in African
travel, he made himself respected and honoured, not only by
his friends, but by the negro tribes among whom he went, for
he treated all, down to the very humblest, with courtesy and
straightforwardness.
On May 29th, 1907, Capt. Oldham shot himself in London,
the funeral taking place on the following Saturday. He had
confided a love affair to a personal friend of his, here
called Mrs. Wilson. It was known to Mrs. Wilson that
three or four days before his tragic death he had proposed to
a lady, and doubtless his mind became unhinged upon re
ceiving her reply, refusing him, on the day he died. His
will was found on the mantel-piece of his room, unwitnessed,
and apparently written just before his death. In his will he
bequeathed an annuity to his godchild, Minnie, Mrs. Wilson's
daughter, who was a great favourite of his.
Miss Minnie Wilson, though not a Eoman Catholic, was
being educated in a convent school on the Continent. Her
mother was anxious to spare her the shock of hearing of the
sudden death of her godfather, to whom she was much
attached, and whom she always called ' Uncle.' She did not
write to her until the Tuesday, nearly a week after his
death, and only told her that her uncle had died suddenly on
the preceding Wednesday and had been buried on Saturday.
On the 6th August, when Mrs. Wilson met her daughter,
who was 17 years old, at Charing Cross, on her return for
the holidays, almost the first thing Minnie said was, "Mother,
please tell me the truth about Uncle Oldham." Mrs. Wilson's
1 All names of persons and places are pseudonyms.
MAY, 1908. Cases. 229
letter, dated September 4th, 1907, giving an account of this
conversation, continues as follows :
I said, "What do you mean, dear?" She then said, "You can't
deceive me, mother ! Just tell me ! Did he take his own life
because a woman wouldn't love him 1" I said, " Why do you ask
such a question 1 " She replied, " Oh, mother, do tell me the truth.
He came and told me all about it himself, and is suffering so
terribly."
Mrs. Wilson continues :
Minnie then gave me the following account. On the Saturday
morning she was in the church dusting with Mere Columba. She
was up a short ladder dusting a statue when she looked round
and saw one of her school friends, whom she knew to be away at
the time, coming towards her; she felt great surprise and almost
shock at seeing her friend in nun's dress.1 The young nun came
up to her, beckoned to her to come down. She tells me that it
was a curious, funny feeling; she saw herself on the ladder and
yet she was on the ground. The nun then took her by the arm
and led her away through a side door of the church, where she
had never been before, and through the nuns' refectory, where no
one is allowed, and then.ce into their private Chapel, and brought
her to one of the pews. She can describe everything, even one
of the pictures on the walls of the refectory, which appeared to
have several pieces of red tape hanging from a figure in the
picture, and which she had not seen before, but subsequently was
found to have correctly described. She knelt and felt some
one near her : she looked up and she says, there was Uncle Old-
ham standing by her. Her first thoughts were, Mother never told
me he was coming over to Belgium. But she felt something was
wrong, his face bore such terrible suffering. He came up and placed
his hand in hers and said : " Minnie ! I have done a terrible thing.
I have taken my own life because a woman would not love me,
and I am suffering much. I never believed what I ought to have
on earth. Pray for me." He told her he was in need of earthly
prayers; they helped him. She then prayed, and after that the
same nun came and led her out of church and she found herself on
the ladder dazed. She managed to get down, when Mere Columba
1 This girl friend had left the convent soon after Minnie went there. She
was subsequently informed that this girl had taken the veil at that time.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
noticed she looked very white and ill, took her away, and she lay
down for some hours. Since then the figure has appeared to her
every morning early, about 4 to 5, but only momentarily. He has
never spoken again, but each time his expression changed and a
happier look came on his face. Her words were : " Oh, mother,
I have prayed so, I want to forget the awful look on his face
when I first saw him. That look is going now." He came to
her as usual the day she left, but nothing has been seen here in
London. The child seems to take it very calmly. What worried
her so terribly was not knowing the truth. She dared not write to
ask me about it, as all their letters are read, and so she had to wait
until she came home. The phantom told her everything : all / had
intended she should never know. There is no one over there who
knows anything about either him or ourselves. Each morning between
the two bells he stands by her bedside and makes her understand
he is happier, but he never speaks now. A bell rings when the
nuns get up, and another when the girls rise about 4 to 5 a.m.
In subsequent letters dated September 15th and October
llth, 1907, Mrs. Wilson writes:
I have been questioning her [Minnie] again about the matter.
I don't think it was a dream at all. I expect the whole thing was
only a matter of moments. When she told Mere Columba where
she had been and what she had seen, her friend replied, " Child,
you are ill," and made no comment. I suppose she went into a
trance condition, but it must have been of very short duration, as
Mere Columba noticed nothing. There are many other points I
should myself like to find out; one is to see the girl who came
as a nun, to know if anything strange happened to her at the
time.
She [Minnie] has not seen anything at all since her return to
England. He appeared to her first as he always did in his ordinary
clothes. I asked her if she felt frightened. Her reply was: "Why,
mother, I did not know he was dead, and I did not believe it, but
his face was so sad, I knew something was wrong. I thought it
was really uncle speaking to me ! " She saw him distinctly every
morning, but he never spoke. He made her understand what he
wanted; that was only momentary. She tells me she is trying to
forget it all now. The suspense told on her considerably ; a weight
seemed lifted when she heard the truth from me. I can only con
clude that the convent being a peaceful, sacred place, Arthur felt
MAY, 1908. Cases. '231
drawn to the child. He was always so fond of her and felt her
innocent prayers would help him.
In reply to enquiries as to whether it was possible her
daughter had seen a telegraphic report of her godfather's death
in some newspaper, Mrs. Wilson wrote, February 26th, 1908:
I think the idea of my daughter having unconsciously seen a
newspaper can be put aside ; I have thought of that too, but I
know how strict the nuns are at that Convent—no newspapers are
allowed, and all letters are read before they are delivered. The
death took place on the Wednesday, the apparition appeared on
the Saturday, and not until the following Wednesday did my
daughter receive my few words, telling her he had died suddenly.
Professor Barrett intended going to the continent to try to
get an interview with Mere Columba, as her evidence would
be important, and also with the young nun, but Mrs. Wilson
wrote on February 20th, 1908:
I am afraid no information can be obtained at the Convent, as
Minnie only confided in old Mere Columba in great secrecy, and
she, I hear, has recently died ; I doubt if she ever mentioned the
circumstance to any one.
A brother of Capt, Oldham writes, after giving details con
cerning the annuity bequeathed to Minnie in the will found
after his brother's death :
It is a pity that Mere Columba is dead. It would be of great
importance to get hold of the girl who took Minnie to Arthur
Oldham. We do not know if she, in the flesh, was conscious of
anything, but being a nun it is probably difficult to get at her.
She is not in the same Convent.
The foregoing narrative was submitted to Mrs. Wilson, who
read it carefully, and after making one or two verbal corrections,
returned it to Professor Barrett with her own and her daughter's
signature, stating:
March 15th, 1908.
We have read the foregoing, it is strictly correct.
(Signed) A. W.
M. W.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
The following is Miss Minnie Wilson's own account of her
experience :
March 15th, 1908.
One Saturday morning I was in the church helping Mere Columba
to dust. I was up a ladder dusting a statue when I was rather
surprised to see a girl, who had left some time, dressed as a nun,
come towards me, and beckon me to follow her ; it gave me rather
a shock to see myself on the ladder when I was in the act of follow
ing the nun. Passing through a door I reached the chapel by a way
I had never been before. When I was kneeling in one of the pews,
I was very surprised to see Uncle Oldham come up to me, as mother
had not told me he was coming to Belgium. I thought something
was wrong as he had such a pained expression ; he took my hand
and said he had done something very wrong1 and that it would
help him a great deal to have me to pray for him ; then he told me
he had been refused by the woman he loved and that he had shot
himself in his despair; after that he visited me every morning.
When I found myself again on the ladder I must have looked
rather pale, so Mere Columba made me lie down for some time ;
later on I told her I had seen my uncle and that he had shot himself,
but she only said it was my imagination. I made her promise not
to tell any one, as I knew no one would believe it and thought I
should be laughed at; a few days after I heard from mother that
Uncle Oldham had died suddenly. It gave me a shock, as I did
not know who to believe and could not write, as all letters are
read before leaving the convent. I only heard the truth from
mother when I came home. MINNIE WILSON.
Professor Barrett adds :
" The foregoing case is in my opinion one of the most
interesting and impressive of the many cases of phantasms of
the dead that have ever come under my notice. Knowing as
I do the young percipient and her absolute truthfulness, trans
parent sincerity and bright intelligence, I am convinced of
the substantial accuracy of the story she has told. Moreover
the fact of her being secluded in a convent school when the
apparition occurred,—a place in which no news of the outside
world is allowed to percolate, except through letters from
relatives which are previously opened and read,—this in itself
renders the case almost an ideal one, and it would have been
wholly so had Mere Columba lived a little longer, so that her
MAY, 1908. Gases. 233
confirmation of the story and date of the apparition had been
obtained. Nor do I see how any explanation of the case can
be based on telepathy from the living except by making
assumptions which are more difficult to accept than the
hypothesis of the conscious survival • of the personality for
(at any rate) a certain period after the death of the body."
After Professor Barrett had finished reading the account of
this case at the meeting of the Society, Miss Wilson, who was
present, went on to the platform and submitted to a somewhat
rigorous cross-examination at the hands of several members of
the audience. Miss Wilson stood the ordeal very well, and the
audience was obviously impressed by the simple straight
forwardness of her replies. She stated that she did not
know the lady who was said to have refused her uncle's
offer of marriage, nor had she heard anything of her uncle's
love affair. Asked if the nun whose phantom conducted her
through the refectory to the chapel had ever been in the re
fectory while she was at the convent school, she replied that the
senior girls who got the chief prizes always went there to
receive them at the end of their last term at school, so un
doubtedly this nun, who had had a distinguished career at
school, must have been there. Asked with regard to the
picture with red tape hanging from it seen by her in her
vision, she said that when she went into the refectory to
receive a prize at the end of the term two months after the
vision, she looked for this picture and found that it was really
the picture of a saint dripping with blood. She was sure that
the nun who conducted her in her vision had no knowledge of
her uncle. With regard to the scene in the Chapel, she said that
she felt her uncle touch her hand : she was not sure whether she
heard words, but she certainly thought she did. She noticed
that she did not hear him walk up the aisle, and especially
that he did not make the bench creak, as other people did.
Afterwards when the figure appeared to her in the morning
standing at the bedside it gradually faded away. She said
she felt something that woke her up and made her look. In
these morning visits, which went on for two months, the
apparition never spoke to her, but as time went on its
expression gradually became less unhappy.
Referring to her being led through the refectory by the
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
nun, she said she only noticed that she had to do as she
was told, though it was not quite characteristic of her to like
to be told to do things. She did not notice anything about
the journey back, and did not again see herself on the ladder.
It was not at all strange that her uncle should ask her to
pray for him, as in Catholic schools girls are taught to pray
regularly for the dead. She was not on exceptionally friendly
terms with the nun, who was her senior, though they liked
each other. They did not see much of each other, as the
nun came from a different country, and the different nation
alities were kept rather apart. Her mother, she he'ard afterwards,
had known something about Captain Oldham's love affair.
L. 1170. Apparition at time of death.
THE following case was contributed to the American Branch by
Dr. Savage. Miss Gollin, sitting in her office, saw her fiance
standing behind her chair. She asked a friend sitting near
her if she saw him ; she had not, but she testifies as to the
incident having occurred as stated by Miss Gollin. The young
man had died at about the time he was seen by her. Two
further experiences of Miss Gollin's are of interest and are
appended.
Her first account was as follows :
130 LAFAYETTE AVENUE,
REV. DR. SAVAGE, BROOKLYN, March 2nd, 1905.
New York City.
Dear Sir,—During a discussion upon the subject of Psychical
Eesearch with a friend a short time ago I mentioned a little
incident in my own life. This friend advised me to send the facts
to you, saying you were very much interested in this subject, and
to his way of thinking my experience seemed to be a perfect case.
It is for this reason I am taking the liberty of addressing you.
During the year 1896 I was employed in the office of a certain
newspaper in this city. On Saturday, the 25th of Jan., 1896, at
about 12.30 p.m., while attending to my work, all at once I felt
conscious of a presence near me. In fact, it was just the same
feeling one has when some one is intently looking at you, and you
feel an inclination to turn to see who it is. This feeling was so
strong that I turned almost involuntarily, and there at the back of
MAY, 1908. Qases. 235
my chair, but a little to one side, I saw the full figure of a young
man with whom I was well acquainted—in fact, engaged to marry.
(I wish to state here that this young man had never been in this
office.) The figure was very distinct. In fact, it was all so plain
that I felt the young woman sitting next to me must see it also,
and though very much overcome and not understanding it at the
time, I turned to her and asked, Did you see any one just now
standing back of my chair? She replied No, and, of course, won
dered why I asked. I did not explain my reason to her at the
time as, though she knew this person from hearsay, she had no
acquaintance, and I felt she might think me foolish. However, the
incident is perfectly clear in her mind even to this day, and if
necessary I can furnish her name and address. In fact, it is her
husband who prevailed on me to make this communication to you.
On the previous Sunday to this incident I had been at church
with this young man, and he was, apparently, in very good health,
though previously he had been ailing somewhat, we thought from
overstudy, as he was just completing a college course. That evening
after our return from church he made an engagement to see me
the middle of the week. Instead of seeing me, I received a letter
from his sister saying he had a cold and might not come to see me
until the end of the week, but that it was nothing serious. I wrote
back, saying that as the weather was so bad he had probably better
not try to come to see me until the Sunday following. (That week
we had a great deal of wet weather.) I heard nothing further from
any member of the family and fully expected to see him on Sunday.
On reaching home on Saturday, Jan. 25, 1896, I found a telegram
waiting for me, which read : " If you wish to see W. come at
once." I did not reach home until about 2 p.m. I hurried to his
home, and on arriving was told he had died about 12.30. It was
a case of typhoid fever.
The delay in forwarding this letter is the result of my desire to
look over some old documents and thus make sure of the exact date
of this strange phenomena. A. A. GOLLIN.
Miss Gollin afterwards wrote to Dr. Hodgson :
130 LAFAYETTE AVE.,
BROOKLYN, March 20, 1905.
RICHARD HODGSON, ESQ., LL.D.,
Sec. and Treas. Society for Psychical Research, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir,—It has given me great pleasure to receive yours of
the llth and to know that you are interested in my experience.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
I have been very busy, else I should have answered your questions
at an earlier date. Now, however, I will try to the best of my
ability to give you the information you desire.
First, the name of my friend is Mrs. B. L. Burrows, 179 Pros
pect Park, West, Brooklyn, N.Y. She, however, did not see the
apparition, but distinctly remembers my asking if she saw any one
at the back of my chair, and will recall the circumstances, as we
have often spoken of the incident since.
I did not make any record of the occurrence, but the whole
affair was so very vivid it has been impressed upon my memory,
and after the death of my friend I spoke of it to his relatives and
found the time of death tallied with the time I saw the apparition.
(I still have the telegram advising me of his death ; this gives the
date.) No obituary notice was published at the time, as the family
were from the West and had very few friends here. The young
man, however, was a student at the N.Y. Dental School, 23rd St.,
up to the time of his death.
I did not time the length of time the figure appeared behind my
chair. I was too surprised to notice time, but it must have stayed
there a couple of minutes I should judge. I was perfectly conscious
of this presence, as I explained in my former letter, and turned
not knowing what to expect, simply thinking to see some one in
the office standing at the back of my chair. My surprise was very
great when I recognized my friend. The whole figure appeared
fully dressed in a black suit of clothes. I know I stared for some
time, and it was all so plain I thought my friend must see it too,
and I turned to her and asked, " Did you see any one pass my
chair just now?" She looked, and replied "No," and seemed to
think my action very queer. I did not explain to her at the time,
as I feared she would think me imaginative; and at the time we
did not know of the illness of this person, neither were we on such
intimate terms at that time that I felt at liberty to explain matters.
As to manner of disappearance I cannot say, as by the time I
spoke to my friend and turned the second time the figure was no
longer visible. When I saw him his hands were resting on the
back of my chair, and he was looking down at me.
Directly following his death, I had a queer dream. It was that
we seemed to be walking along the streets of a city I had never
seen before. The street was lined with trees of goodly size, and the
houses were of frame and detached, and with considerable ground
around them and all setting back from the street. As we walked
MAY, 1908. Cases. 237
along this street, he ran a little ahead just as he had often done in
life, and hid behind a tree until I came up to it, and then ran out
to join me again. We walked a little farther, when he left me to
meet a gentleman whom I had never seen and whom he spoke to
and then brought to me. Then we all walked into this house directly
opposite which we were standing, and which had quite a path through
the grounds to reach same, then up a couple of steps into the house.
After entering the house, I woke up.
The peculiar part of this dream was the fact that the gentleman
whom this friend of mine met was an elderly person dressed in the
costume worn perhaps 100 years ago, or thereabouts. He had black
silk stockings, low shoes with silver buckles, brown velvet knicker
bockers, a ruffled shirt and the coat of that period. I particularly
noticed that his hair was grey and he had quite a long beard. It
was some one whom I had never seen or heard of before. At the
time I had a very vivid description of him, and was so impressed
with the whole dream that I told it to my father, who at the time
•questioned me very carefully about the elderly man, after which he
told me the description answered that of his father. He had been
dead many years before, (my own father at that time was about 70
years of age), and I had never heard my father speak of him in the
way of describing him or in fact very little at all, as he was a very
•quiet and studious man and not given to talk of his family. Neither
had we any pictures of him of any description. I know at the time
ray father thought it was so strange that I should have so complete
a description of his father, and he seemed to have no doubt it was
his father, though in my dream I did not place this gentleman at
-all. I only noticed his friendship for my friend, and noted that they
seemed well acquainted and that he wished me to know this old
gentleman. My father was an Englishman, and his father spent his
whole life in England and I believe died in London, while my friend
•died in Brooklyn.
I have also had some trivial dreams come true. For instance,
after the death of my friend I was spending a few days at the home
of his family. On the Sunday morning at breakfast, (it was early
spring), I said to them : " I had a strange dream last night. I
dreamed we were all somewhere in the country—I do not know where,
but I remember at the end of the street there was a church on a
little hill. The house we were all in set back a little from the
roadside. We were in the parlour, in which was a piano at the
far end away from the windows, and nearer the entrance to another
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
room which appeared to be the dining room. The three girls—
(his sisters) and myself were grouped around the piano and were
singing hymns. It seemed to be Sunday afternoon and pouring rain.
I could see the lightning at intervals as I looked toward the windows.
One of the girls, Alice, was playing. We had several hymn books
around. We would sing all we knew in one and then turn to the
other book. One of the girls leaned over the piano and took the
book from Alice, saying, "We don't know any more in that one, try
this one," placing another. I had a feeling that there were other
hymns which we knew, and leaned over and got the book and con
tinued looking through it, while they looked through the one which
one of the sisters had placed. Then when I found something we
knew, I handed it over to Alice to play for us.
After I narrated my dream, they all said, " Why that's just like
the house we hired last summer in Eidgefield, Conn., but now that
Walter is dead, we may never go there again." Well, summer came
and they hired this same house for the season, and I was invited
to spend my vacation with them. One Sunday we all sat at the
piano, singing, and the same incident occurred which I have described
in my dream, the matter of the books being changed and my leaning
over for the discarded one and feeling that I knew other hymns in it.
At the time, I had a feeling that this had occurred before. One of
the sisters, Lillie, immediately spoke up and said: "Why, Ada, this
is your dream, you had so long ago, don't you remember ? It is exactly
the same, even to the rain. Isn't it strange." They all recalled it
and spoke of it to their mother who was not present at the time.
This is only a small affair, but the whole occurrence tallied
precisely with my dream and was recollected by all, the same
people being present as in my dream, and it was at their home
in Brooklyn, and before them, that I had told the dream several
months before. Furthermore, I had never been in the town before ;
had never had a description of the house and at that time never
expected to ever see it.
I do not know how to account for these affairs, but it seems
plain to me that dreams do come true. A. A. GOLLIN.
130 LAFAYETTE AVE.,
BROOKLYN, March 22, 1905.
EICHARD HODGSON, ESQ., LL.D.,
Sec. for the Society for Psychical Research, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir,—Yours of the 21st inst. at hand. I shall communicate
with my friends regarding the dream of the Sunday afternoon and
MAY, 1908. Cases. 239
see if they are willing to give their co-operation in this matter.
As soon as I hear from them, I will notify you. I have no
knowledge of anything similar to this dream occurring before my
friend's death. I think they will remember the fact of the dream
though they may be loth to testify at this time, and so many
years have elapsed since it occurred.
I cannot give an approximate date of my vision in which my
friend and grandfather figured, having kept no record at the time
and never thinking to make use of the experience in any way.
ADA A. GOLLIN.
Miss Burrows wrote to Dr. Hodgson as follows :
179 PROSPECT PARK, W.,
MR. E. HODGSON, BROOKLYN, N.Y., March 29, 1905.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter of March 21, it gives me
pleasure ,to corroborate Miss Gollin's statement. I do not remember
the exact date of the occurrence she mentions. I remember
distinctly however, that we were sitting together working in the
office of the Evening Post, where we were both employed. Miss
Gollin's chair was placed at right angles to mine, so that anyone
approaching her chair would have been plainly visible to me.
I remember her asking me if I had noticed a man standing back
of her chair. As she said this she was in the act of looking behind
her, as if expecting to find someone standing there, or as if she
were conscious that someone had just been standing there. I saw
nothing whatever myself, and am sure that no one in the flesh
did approach her chair at that time. I told her I had seen no
one, and thus the incident closed for the moment.
I did not see her again for several days, when she told me
that on arriving home she had found a telegram stating that her
fiance was dead. Later she learned the hour of his death corre
sponded exactly with that of the apparition which she had seen
while at work.
In closing, it may be of some value to add that Miss Gollin
is not a person of visionary temperament. She is a thoroughly
practical and matter-of-fact business woman.—Very respectfully yours,
ELIZABETH L. BURROWS.
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1908.
Miss Gollin wrote later :
130 LAFAYETTE AVENUE,
BROOKLYN, April 12, 1905.
DR. RICHARD HODGSON, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir,—I regret not being able to give you the desired
information in answer to your letter of the 31st ult. sooner, but I
have only just received word from my friends in answer to my
question as to whether they would be willing to vouch for my
statement of the dream of the Sunday afternoon in question.
Miss Alice Warren, 67 Leflferts Place, Brooklyn, N.Y., who was
one of the young ladies in question, informs me that she is quite
willing to verify my statement about this dream, as she remembers
it quite clearly, more so, in fact, than the other members of the
family.
Trusting to hear that you receive the desired verification from
her..—I remain, yours very truly, ADA A. GOLLIN.
Dr. Hodgson afterwards received the following note from
Miss Warren :
67 LEFFERTS PLACE,
MR. R. HODGSON, BROOKLYN, April 24, 1905.
Sir,—In answer to yours of April 14th would say that I remember,
as Miss Gollin states, her dream and the re-occurrence afterwards at
our summer cottage. As to the date, cannot remember on account
of the length of time that has elapsed since then. Trusting that
this will satisfactorily verify Miss Gollin's statement of her dream.—
Yours respectfully, ALICE WARREN.
No. CCL.—VOL. XIII. JUNE, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates 242
Meeting of the Council, . . 242
General Meeting, 243
Experiments in Thought Transference. By Clarissa Miles, . . . 243
The Society for Psychical Research : Local Sections, .... 203
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, JUNE zgth, 1908, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER BY
COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO
ON
" The Hallucination Theory as applied to
certain Cases of Physical Phenomena "
WILL BE READ.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Metnbcrs
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1908.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Barwell, Noel, W. Kensington Mansions, W. Kensington, London, W.
BKADLE, Miss E. A., Millfield, Bexley Heath, Kent.
BOUWENS, BETHELL GODEFROI, Eastmoor House, Harpenden, Herts.
Grace, Cecil S., 3 Sloane Gardens, London, S.W.
KAUFMAN, MRS. IRENE M., 3339 Spring Garden Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Kellogg, Spencer, Junr., Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, Seven Acres, New London, Conn., U.S.A.
MAKTIN, Miss FLORENCE R., 65 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
MILBUHN, REV. R. G., Hollywood House, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.
Raw, Miss Eileen Kate Nesta, 28 Albert Court, Kensington
Gore, London, S.W.
TOOTAL, MRS. A. J., The Ladies' Empire Club, 69 Grosvenor St.,
London, W.
WATSON, MRS. MILNE, 39 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 91st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, May 19th, 1908—the
President, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, in the chair. There were
also present: the Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Baltbur, Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., Mr. E. N. Bennett,
M.P., Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, the Hon. Everard Feilding,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. S. C.
Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs.
Verrall, Mr. V. J. Woolley, Miss Alice Johnson, Research
Officer, and Mr. R. A. H. Bickford-Smith, Secretary.
The minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
JUNK, 1908. Meeting of the Council. 243
The final draft Report of the Sub-Committee on Local
Sections was, after slight emendation, adopted, and will be
found below on p. 263.
Five new Members and seven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for March and April, 1908, were
presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 132nd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday,
May 19th, 1908, at 4.15 p.m. Mrs. Sidgwick gave her Presi
dential Address, which will be published in the next Part of
the Proceedings.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE.
BY CLARISSA MILES.
THE experiments here described are a continuation of those
which were previously brought before the Society and
published in the Proceedings S.P.R., Part LIV. As before,
I was the agent and my friend Miss Ramsden the percipient.
Miss Ramsden on each day sent me a postcard describing
what her impressions—which were generally rather numerous,
—had been, and I noted each day on a postcard sent to her
what the idea was that I had tried to transmit. On receiving
her card I noted what facts in my experience had corresponded
with her impressions.
As in the previous account in Proceedings, (a) indicates my
postcard written at the time of the experiment ; (b) Miss
Ramsden's postcard recording her impressions at the time ;
(c) my comments, made after receiving her postcard, as to
points in her description that seemed to correspond to what
had been happening to me : (d) corroboration of the latter by
my friends.
Some of the experiments failed altogether, and in most of
them Miss Ramsden had other impressions besides those that
24-4 Journal o/ Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 190&.
were more or less correct. These unsuccessful cases are
omitted here ; but as all the experiments are numbered
consecutively, the proportion of complete failures is shown.
In the record of the more or less successful cases, the
portions omitted are indicated by asterisks.
During these experiments I was on a tour with Lady
Guendolen Eamsden in the Ardennes, where Miss liamsden
had never been. She only knew my address, so that she
could .post the cards. I went to Namur and joined Lady
Guendolen there on the 13th of July, 1907, and did not
begin the experiments till July 21st.
EXPERIMENT I.
Miss Ramsden on July 21st sent a sketch of a well which
she had been thinking of on the 18th and 19th several
times in connection with me. It will be seen that this has
some resemblance to a photograph which I took from our
hotel window, and part of which is here reproduced, showing a
tower, which was the most conspicuous object from the hotel
garden : when there, we could not look up in any direction
without seeing the tower outlined against the sky ; but the
weathercock and round ball beneath shown in the photograph
would not be visible to us, for the garden being situated
exactly at the foot of the tower, we were too much under
neath it.
EXPERIMENT II.
The following is my postcard, written on the first day
that I attempted to transfer an idea to Miss Eamsden :
(a) Hotel d'Harscamp, Namur, July 20th [really 21st].
[Postmark, Namur, 22. vii. 07. 10.17.]
We went to Huy by train and spent the afternoon there, I
wanted you to see the fine view of citadel. The hill beyond
covered with trees, boats in foreground and a fine bridge spanning
the Meuse. C. M.
(6) Miss Eamsden's next postcard, written from Ardverikie,
Kingussie, has the postmark " Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Jy. 23. 07 "
and has nothing on it except the sketch here reproduced.
Miss Eamsden adds later :
K
M
CO
X,
JUNK, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 245
MISS BAMSDEN'S SKETCH.
This was seen as a hypnagogic illusion just before going to sleep.
I drew this on Monday after the post had gone (8 a.m.). That
is why it was not posted until the 23rd. I saw it in colour; the
distance was a lovely blue. H. R.
(d) Lady Guendolen Ramsden, writing to her daughter
later of this occasion, sends the following sketch :
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1908.
Lady Guendolen adds :
[On] the day we went to Huy, Clarisse sat under a tree on the
bank of a garden overlooking the Meuse. She said, " I'll draw
the bridge; M. may get an impression of the arches." So you
did,—only yours were more like a viaduct. . . . This sketch is
from memory, showing where Clarisse sat to draw. There was a
large tree on whose roots she sat : lots of boats everywhere. . . ,
The next two experiments were failures.
EXPERIMENT V.
(a) Bruges, July 24th [probably should be 28th, as postmark
is "Bruges, 29 Juillet, 07"].
We stopped at Ghent on July 23rd [27th] on our way here.
Had lunch. Then saw the Cathedral of St. Bavon. The Van Eyck
picture "Adoration of the Immaculate Lamb" interested me much,
details so wonderful. ... C. M.
(V) Saturday, July 27th, 1907. 10.45 p.m.
[Postmark: Kingussie 10.30 a.m. Jy. 28. 07.]
An Arab or Indian wearing a turban on his head. . . .
H. R.
(c) In the "Adoration of the Immaculate Lamb," by Van Eyck,
one of the principal groups in the foreground is composed of
oriental figures, many of whom have turbans on. We had been
looking specially at one of these. We were given glasses to inspect
closely the wonderful finish and technique of the painting.
C. M.
EXPERIMENT VI.
(a) Sunday, July 24th [28th].
[Postmark : Bruxelles, date illegible.]1
We went to Church in the morning. Then I walked to the
Grande Place and saw the tournament of the Toison D'Or.
Ladies on horseback with quaint head-dresses, men tilting with long
lauces, horses caparisoned and shining armour, made a dazzling
picture of colour. Clowns juggled and tumbled at intervals. The
giant and the dwarf gave signals of when the jousts were to begin.
C. M.
' Some Bruges letters go via Brussels ; there is the hotel mark [Grand Hotel
de Commerce, Bruges] on the post-cards.
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 247
(b) Sunday, July 28th.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. Jy. 29, 07.]
A spider ; but the chief impression is Swallows in flight. Then a
nest full of eggs. A new moon. A nurse with a red cross on her
arm. Prancing horses, wooden ones ; perhaps it is a merry go-
round. ... It seems scarcely fair to describe Bruges, as I have
heard so much about it and read about it—I don't know how
much is telepathic. I see a stone bridge with three arches.
Poverty-stricken houses rising straight up out of the water, clothes
and rags hanging from the windows. A belfry which dominates
the town. Did you go to see the bell? H. R.
(c) The Grande Place where the Tournament is held is just at
the foot of the High Belfry Tower which dominates the town. It
was facing me all the afternoon. Numbers of swallows were flying
about everywhere. A few of the people in the Procession had
crosses on their costumes. The clowns had a sham joust on
wooden horses, with lances made of thick brown paper like round
poles. It was very comic, and amused me much. It looked so
absurd to watch the ridiculous antics of these clowns, after the
prancing horses, the shining armour and rich accoutrements of the
real tilters with their lances.
Bruges was en fete, decorated everywhere ; flags and banners were
flying from every window. Bruges is noted for its bridges.
C. M.
EXPERIMENT VII.
(b) Ardverikie, Monday, July 29th.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. Jy. 30. 07.]
4.45 p.m. I was not thinking of you, when I suddenly began to
see Church windows, and realised that you were inside a Church,
perhaps sketching. The following was a most vivid impression.
11.80 p.m. You both sketched, my mother sat with her back to
the altar and drew the door with its curious old carving. There
was a priest in white before the altar, I think • you drew that.
Outside the Church were many steps, and people selling postcards,
and penny toys—windmills with paper sails for children. You
bought a postcard in case I should see this, and you thought of
me. The Church is much higher up than I had imagined. It is
several hundred feet above the sea. There is an open space round
it and, standing on the steps, you get a fine view of the town
248 Journal of Society for Psychicai Research. JUNK, 1908.
with its tiled roofs, and the sea beyond. There are fishing boats
to be seen, and the sun was setting. H. R.
These impressions had no connection with what was
attempted to be transferred on this occasion, but applied
appropriately to some of the events of the day. Thus :
(c) On Monday, July 29th, we were in a Cathedral just about
the time Miss Eamsden saw the Church windows. We had no
time for sketching. But Lady Guendolen said to me : " What a
fine head that Priest has, how much I should like to draw him."
There was also a Priest in white standing in front of the altar.
The Church is on a level with the town, not above it. We bought
many postcards. A variety of fishing boats were to be seen.
They looked most picturesque against the setting sun. Children
were swarming everywhere, bringing penny toys, flying paper kites
and round air balls, blowing trumpets, thoroughly enjoying the
gay and festive season of the Tournament, which has brought
people to Bruges from all parts of the World. C. M.
(d) Lady Guendolen Ramsden writes :
We were in church at the time, 5.30, but not drawing. I did
say to Clarisse, " Look at that priest resting (in a common chair
like a visitor). What a fine grey head ! I should like to draw
him."
EXPERIMENT VIII.
(a) August 1st, Hotel de L'Univers.
[Postmark : Bruxelles, 2 Aout, 07.]
We took a drive in the afternoon near the pare and saw the large
Colonne de Congre and the Cathedral. Made several purchases,
cards with dogs and cart amongst the number. I could not get
into any telepathic state to send you impressions. I am just leaving
for Montreuil. C. M.
(b) Thursday, August 1st.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 2. 07.]
A statue—bust of a man Nothing at all vivid except
the statue. H. R.
(c) The Colonne de Congre is a very tall column with a bronze
statue of the King on the top. A.D. 1831. See p. 96 of Baedeker's
Holland and Belgium.
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 249
EXPERIMENT IX.
(b) Ardverikie, Friday, August 2nd, 11.45 p.m.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 3. 07.]
A stone bridge. Quai Bertheldt or some name like that.
*****
H. R.
(c) This is another instance of what happened several times in
the earlier experiments ; a name obtained more or less correctly by
Miss Eamsden. In this case the name " Quai Berthelot " was like
that of two places we saw,—the Tour de la Reine Berthe and the
Chapelle Sainte-Austreberthe. C. M.
EXPERIMENT X.
I next went to Montreuil-sur-Mer in the North of France,
to join a sketching class organised by Mr. Townsley, Director
of the London School of Art, tuition to be given by Frank
Brangwyn, A.E.A.
(a) Hotel de France, Montreuil-sur-Mer, August 5th.
[Postmark : Montreuil, 7.8.07.]
I drew all the morning on the ramparts, trees and cottages. In
the afternoon we all went to the Studio and painted the same girl.
Mr. Brangwyn gave us a criticism. C. M.
(6) Ardverikie, Monday, August 5th.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 6. 07.]
. . . Trees with overhanging branches, very low so that you
would have to stoop to pass under them, and fields of long, wet
grass, like uncut hay ; a calf. Is it raining hard, so that you
cannot sketch 1 I feel nothing happening,—so dull. H. R.
(c) The place where the model poses is outside the ramparts on
a knoll. The trees are low, with overhanging branches. There is
a quantity of long, wet grass about half cut. It is let to a woman
in Montreuil for feeding her goat, which is always browsing close
to us while we paint, but there is no calf. C. M.
EXPERIMENT XI.
In the next case the interesting point is that Miss Eamsden
gets names associated, not with the place where I was, but
with another place of the same name.
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNB, 1908.
(b) Byram, Tuesday, August 6th, 1907. 10 p.m., posted 7th.
[Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 7. 07.]
A fragment of sculptured marble, it might be a column or a
chimney piece that you are sketching. Then a distant view of a
farmhouse surrounded by an orchard. A cart horse. The following
names: Rue de Lafayette. Malesherbes. Buisson. It seems like an
attempt at some name with a rural meaning. H. R.
(c) Mr. Brangwyn settles on a certain street or place for his
weekly criticism, and we all go and choose a suitable spot for our
work. On a certain day Mr. Brangwyn gives a correction to each
student. This week I understood the place chosen was the village
La Madeleine, and I had a little difficulty in finding it. The
village is seen from the ramparts and is quite close to Montreuil ;
but I had to ask my way there, as there are two or three gates
to pass outside the fortifications. When I arrived I chose a row of
cottages with a farmhouse in the distance, surrounded by trees, as
a subject for my sketch. It is very curious that two of the names
Miss Ramsden thought of, namely, Lafayette and Malesherbes, are
connected, not with this village La Madeleine, but with the well-
known Church of La Madeleine in Paris. I lived for two winters
in Paris in La Rue Caumartin close to La Madeleine, so I am well
acquainted with the whole neighbourhood, and the names of these
streets must be subliminally associated in my mind with the name
La Madeleine. C. M.
EXPERIMENT XII.
The next seems to be an instance in which Miss Ramsden
obtained in a dream an impression of a conversation which I
was having the evening before.
(6) [Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 8. 07.]
An aggressively modern house, built upon the ruins of an old
fortress, looking small and insignificant compared to the fortifications
by which it is surrounded. The Church is also modern. Seen in
a dream, night of August 7th-8th, 1907.
This is my third attempt to draw it; it isn't quite right. I
particularly noticed this low and curiously-pointed hill. I think
this is all the same thing as the other postcard [viz. the one quoted in
Experiment XIII.]. This may be a hospital, it looked more like
a chateau, what we call a villa, and stands surrounded by an
orchard of young trees. Saint Cloltre or Saint Croix? H. R.
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 251
MISS RAMSDEN S SKETCH.
(c) On Wednesday, August 7th, Mr. Baxter, an artist, in course
of conversation at dinner, described to me the interesting objects in
the neighbourhood of Montreuil. We talked especially about the
Chartreuse. I had walked round the ramparts; which command
an extensive view of the whole neighbourhood, but the Chartreuse
had never been pointed out to me as an object of special interest.
It is a monastery from which the monks were expelled about five
years ago. It has remained unoccupied ever since. Quite recently
it has been bought by a man who is intending to turn it into a
Sanatorium, and it is now called Sanatorium on picture postcards.
Mr. Baxter's own account of our conversation is as follows :
(d) December 18th, 1907.
La Chartreuse, near Montreuil-sur-Mer, is a not very interesting
building, being quite modern and containing little more than the
bare walls. I understood an attendant to say that it had been
built on the site of a more ancient building : also that the cele
brated Chartreuse liqueur had not been made there for a great
number of years. I fancy the same man said there was talk of
turning the place into a Sanatorium. The foregoing, I think, is all
I mentioned to you on the 7th August, when speaking of my visit.
C. H. BAXTER.
The plate on opposite page is a reproduction of an illustra
tion of La Chartreuse in a French guide-book.
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1908.
(*)
EXPERIMENT XIII.
Byram, Wednesday, August 7th, 1907, 11 p.m.
[Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 8. 07.]
Is it a drawbridge? It may be stagnant water, but I do not
think that it is a river ; it may be a road. The roof has red tiles,
there was a chimney and windows.
You have met an interesting man to-day, a doctor, from a place
called Saint Cloitre or Saint Croix.
You have been to see a fortress with big bare rooms not used
now-a-days ; big oak chairs and large fireplaces. Perhaps the man
was Governor of this fortress. There was a Church tower with
these windows.
****'* H. R.
(c) Mr. Brangwyn, A.R.A., informed me there was a Doctor who
lived as Governor of the Tower by the bridge which connects one part
of the fortifications of Montreuil with another. This doctor with
his family used to dine every evening at our Hotel. I remember
seeing him but I never heard anything of his history at the time.
A copy of a drawing by Mr. Brangwyn of this tower and bridge
is reproduced on the opposite page.
I imagine that the " fortress " mentioned by Miss Ramsden is
the place of which she dreamt that night (see previous Experiment)
and which I identify as the Chartreuse. C. M.
EXPERIMENT XIV.
I then left Montreuil-sur-Mer and went to stay at Laburnum
Villa, Wickham Heath, near Newbury, to have painting
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 253
lessons from Mr. Pittman. I should say that he lives at
Hoe Benham with his friend, Mr. Waud.
(b) Wednesday, October 30th.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Oct. 31. 07.]
Archways—entrance to a building. It may be only trellis work
in the garden, or the pattern on your fender, but the impression
was very persistent.
E. N. H. Y. A name : Ellen Hay or Henry. A very high-
heeled Shoe. ... H. E.
(c) The drawing of arches on Miss Eamsden's postcard has some
slight resemblance to the windows of Mr. Waud's studio, the whole
side of which is one large long window. Mr. Waud writes :
(d) Hoe Benham, Newbury.
Miss Miles has been down to Hoe Benham several times for
painting, and had never seen the Studio before, as it had only
just been erected and consequently it would be very much
impressed on her mind. She worked in it every day and found
it so extremely convenient.
The large shoes mentioned very much resemble mine. I always
wear sabots to go down to the Studio, which is at the bottom of
the garden. I wore them all the time Miss Miles was here. They
have caused many comments.
I take great pride in my garden and the garden is full of green
posts and arches, with roses growing on them. At the present
time there are some still in flower. KEGINALD WAUD.
EXPERIMENT XV.
(b) Thursday, October 31st, 1907.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. No. 1. 07.]
First I saw dimly a house, but I think that you wish me to see
a little girl with brown hair down her back, tied with a ribbon in
the usual way. She is sitting at a table with her back turned and
seems very busy indeed, I think she is cutting out scraps with a
pair of scissors, she has on a white pinafore, and I should guess her
age to be between eight and twelve. H. E.
(c) This is the description which my landlady Mrs. Lovegrove
gives of her child, who had not been at all well. I was much
interested in this child :
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1908.
Laburnum Villa, Wickham Heath.
" I have a little girl aged eleven, with brown hair, tied with a
ribbon in the usual way, she wears a pinafore and, being ill, often
amuses herself cutting out scraps. I took her to the doctor's on
the 30th October, and had a long talk with Miss Miles on the 31st
October." LAURA LOVEGROVK.
The 16th Experiment will be described below, the l7th was
a failure.
EXPERIMENT XVIII.
My sister Lady Tennant was going to marry Mr. Geoffrey
Lubbock, and her wedding, as Miss Eamsden knew, was to
be on November 13th.
(a) Friday, November 8th.
I lunched with Marguerite Tennant. . . . After lunch I went to
Mr. Pavitt's and ordered a talismanic bit of jewelry for my sister
to wear, on her wedding day. Her house is Taurus ruled by
Venus.1 C. M.
(6) Friday, Nov. 8th, 1907.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. No. 9. 07.]
[After some drawings of a Church Miss Ramsden draws another
figure which she describes as follows :]
A ring, and in the midst of the ring an eye emitting rays of
light like the sun.
You have been to see somebody to whom you have just received
an introduction ; it was very interesting and weird and strange.
There is some art or symbolism connected with some strange
religious cult. It may be somewhere near Regent's Park. . . .
H. R.
(c) The strange religious cult I think refers to the astrological
symbols in the pendant. C. M.
EXPERIMENT XIX.
(a) 59 Egerton Gardens, Sunday, Nov. 10th.
[Postmark: Chelsea, 1.30. p.m. 12 Nov.]
.... We took a turn in Kensington Gardens and looked at
the Ducks on the Round Pond Mr. and Mrs. Hunter
were going shortly on a visit to Taormina. We talked a great deal
1 Consequently the design of the pendant was the circle with horns,
symbolising Taurus, and enclosing the symbol of Venus, a circle surmounting
a cross. The former was composed of a single turquoise in a thin gold band,
turquoise being the stone of Venus.
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 255
about Sicily, I pictured Mount Etna and that lovely view over the
Straits of Messina. I know it well( having been there yachting
in former years. C. M.
(6) [Postmark: Kingussie, Nov. 11, 07.]
A row of houses that remind me of Chalfont St. Peter, because
there is a duck-pond in front.
[Picture of a mountain with two peaks.]
the Alps. Shipley H. R.
EXPERIMENT XX.
This last experiment is the only one in which I was
percipient.
(a) 59 Egerton Gardens, December 15tb.
[Postmark illegible.]
I first of all get the impression of a red glow, bright colours. I
think there was a lovely sunset, or brilliant coloured flowers. The
most lasting impression is a candlestick, an old-fashioned one with
a flat bottom and large handle, probably made of brass. . . .
C. M.
(c) After the first impression I went on for some time seeing
wherever I looked a sort of after image of it, which was shining
and circular in shape, with a great variety of colours in it, like
those seen at first, but much more subdued in tone. The whole
effect resembled a polished brass shining disc like the bottom of an
old-fashioned flat-bottomed brass candlestick with a bright light
reflected from it. C. M.
(b) Sunday, December 15th, 1907. Raith, Kirkcaldy, N.B.
[Postmark: Kirkcaldy, 12.45 p.m. De. 16. 07.]
* * * *
Went to Church this morning, the sun shone very brightly
through a stained window above the organ. It was this shape :
[Drawing of circle, with six small semi-circles round its edge].
I wished you to see it.
'*####
H. R.
(e) The sun was shining straight into my eyes during the whole
time I was in Church, we sat in the gallery and the round window
was on a level with our eyes. The glare of light was almost un
pleasant. There were flowers painted on the window, and in the
centre a lamb with a halo round its head. The colours were very
bright. H. R.
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1908.
EXPERIMENT XVI.
This experiment involves a complicated story of supposed
hauntings near the village of Hoe Benham, and is therefore
described last.
Laburnum Villa, where I was staying, is about three
minutes' walk from the cottage and studio where Mr. Pittman
and Mr. Waud live. They have been here for about four
years. I have been down there three or four times before
for painting lessons and have always stayed at Laburnum
Villa, which belongs to Mr. and Mrs. Henry Lovegrove.
This autumn for the first time here, I began to try thought-
transference with Miss Kamsden.
This is Mr. Pittman's description of what happened on
November 2nd, 1907:
Hoe Benham, Newbury.
On November 2nd, 1907, I was painting in the Studio with my
friend Eeginald Waud; the model was our servant dressed as a
widow, and we were waiting for Miss Miles to join us. At 10
o'clock I knew the milkman had come by the dogs barking in the
cottage at the top of the garden. So I said, "I will take the milk
in," and went up to the cottage. After putting the jug in the
pantry and shutting the cottage door, I looked up the road and
saw Miss Miles coming down with her easel and paint-box.
Following quite close behind her was a large white pig, with a
long snout. I went down to the Studio and said to Waud, "What
do you think Miss Miles is bringing down with her this morning,
instead of her Chow ? A large pig ! " We roared with laughter,
and he said, " Call out and tell her not to bring her friend in, and
to be sure to shut the gate, as we take a great pride in our
garden." The moment Miss Miles appeared I opened the window
and shouted out, " What have you done with your companion ? "
She was very surprised and said, " My companion, what do you
mean?" Then I told her what I had seen following her. She
immediately said, " If a pig were trotting behind me, I must have
heard it. Besides, there is a very easy way of finding out, for I
passed the milkman in the lane and he must have seen it, but
I shall go and look for myself." When she came back she said :
" There is no trace of a pig anywhere." We made enquiries all
over the village ; no one had seen a stray pig. There is only one
white one in the place, and this one, its owner assured us, could
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 257
not possibly have got loose without his knowing it. At the present
time there is a notice out forbidding owners to allow pigs to stray,
under penalty of a fine, as there have been cases of swine fever.
We enquired of the milkman next morning. He remembered
passing Miss Miles, as he usually met her about the same time.
He most emphatically said there was no pig to be seen anywhere
on the road.
(Signed) OSMUND PITTMAN.
REGINALD WAUD.
CLARISSA MILES.
LOUISA THORNE.
I chose this pig for the subject of experiment with Miss
Ramsden, and wrote on my postcard :
(a) Laburnum Villa, Saturday, November 2nd.
[Postmark: Newbury, 6.30 p.m. No. 3. 07.]
I wished you to see a stuffed pheasant or you may have seen
the flying phantom pig. C. M.
(b) November 2nd, 1907.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 10.30 a.m. No. 3. 07.]
*****
You were out of doors rather late, a cold raw evening near a
railway station ; there was a pig with a long snout, and some
village children ; it was getting dark. H. R.
As to whether there could have been a real pig on the
road, this is the evidence of the milkman, who passed me
that morning:
Westbrook Dairy, Boxford.
I have been asked by Mr. Pittman and Miss Miles to say whether
I saw a large white pig following Miss Miles on November 2nd,
1907, at 10 o'clock in the morning, as I met her walking down
to the cottage carrying her painting things. I can honestly say
that I saw no such thing, there was no trace of a pig to be seen
anywhere. E. CARRELL.
Mrs. Thome wrote :
I had a talk with the children playing on the road. They had
seen Miss Miles go by and they told me they had been there all
the morning, but they had seen no pig anywhere.
LOUISA THORNE.
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1908.
On February 4th, 1908, I returned to Laburnum Villa to
finish one or two paintings I began last autumn. I also
wished to get further evidence of the strange animal forms
that are supposed to haunt this lane, as I was told last
November, after the episode of the phantom pig, that so
many of the villagers had been witnesses of these remarkable
apparitions under different forms, such as a cat, a dog, or a
rabbit, or other animals. Mr. Pittman and Mr. Waud had
never seen anything weird or out of the ordinary till I came
down last autumn and began thought-transference with Miss
Eamsden ; they had only heard quite casually very vague
accounts of something strange that had been seen years ago,
to which they had paid but little attention. The villagers
are very reticient and will not talk much for fear of being
laughed at, but the history of the phantom pig overcame all
difficulties on that score as regards my enquiries.
The villagers all tell the same story to account for these
apparitions. They put them all down to " Tommy King."
He was a farmer, who lived over a hundred years ago. He
hung himself in an outhouse, and his spirit is supposed to
haunt the spot, appearing in these strange shapes and making
uncanny noises. The farm buildings and outhouses were all
demolished on the occasion of the sale of the property by
Mr. Dreweatt to Sir Eichard Sutton in 1892 ; only a cottage
remains, which is still called King's cottage, and a disused
well close to the lane, which is called Tommy King's chalk
well. In former years they used to dig out chalk from the
side of the hill. I have looked at the Register of the Parish
Church and there are entries of the deaths of two Tommy
Kings, one in 1741, the other in 1753, so it must be one
of these two.
At the corner of the lane stands an old-fashioned inn,
called the Halfway, because it is halfway between London
and Bristol and sixty miles from each. It is on the main
road, and in the olden days all the coaches stopped here
to change horses. The lane to Hoe Benham branches off
here, going up a hill called Pound Hill. King's cottage and
the well are situated to the left of the lane. The well is
close to the road, but only a hole in the bank indicates the
spot. At the top of the hill about ten minutes' walk brings
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 259
you to the Church, then there is a short, sharp decline and
the straggling village of Hoe Benham is reached. After
Benham Hill is mounted a cluster of cottages is seen nestling
on the side of the hill, one of them belonging to Mr.
Pittman and Mr. Waud. Their cottage is about a mile from
the Halfway, and it is all along this lane that the apparitions
have been seen.
The following are accounts which I obtained from some of
the villagers. I wrote down what they told me as nearly
as possible in their own words, and afterwards got their
signatures to the accounts.
Hoe Benham.
In the beginning of January, 1905, about half-past seven in the
evening, I was walking up from the Halfway. I suddenly saw an
animal that seemed to be like a large, black dog appear quite
suddenly out of the hedge and run across the road quite close in
front of me ; I thought it was the dog belonging to the curate.
I was just going to call it to send it home, when it suddenly
changed its shape, and turned into a black donkey standing on
its hind legs. This creature had two glowing eyes, which appeared
to me to be almost as big as saucers. I looked at it in astonish
ment for a minute or so, when it suddenly vanished. After that
I hurried home, for the sight of this creature with the large shining
eyes gave me a shock. The evening was a light one for the time
of year.
(Signed) WILLIAM THORNE.
At Michaelmas, 1897, seven o'clock in the evening, I met a friend,
John Barrett, on Benham Hill, and we stopped to have a chat.
At this spot there is a gate on either side of the road. Whilst
we were talking a curious looking animal, snowy white, crossed
the road quite slowly from one gate to the other close to us.
John Barrett said, "What was that?" The animal seemed too
large for a cat, more the size of a terrier with a fluffy coat. I
went and stood on the gate and watched it as it trotted half way
across the meadow, when it disappeared. The strange whiteness of
the creature's coat struck me as being so uncommon.
(Signed) WILLIAM THORNE, Hoe Benham.
JOHN BARRETT, Wickham Heath, Newbury.
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1908.
About three or four years ago in the autumn about five o'clock,
sort of between the lights, but I could see everything, I was walking
to Stock Cross and got to the last handing post. All at once, I
heard a buzz, like the whizz of leaves, and a rattle on the ground.
I cast my eyes down, and saw summat in the shape of a calf
knuckled down. It seemed about 2 ft. 6 in. high and 5 feet long
with large glowing eyes. It regularly startled me. My hat waved
over my head. I kept my eyes on't, but I never saw the goings
on't. (Signed) ALBERT THORNE, Hoe Benham.
This is the story as told me by John Barrett and his wife
Polly. He is 63 years of age. About 50 years ago when
he was a lad, he was returning with seven or eight men in
a waggon from Halfway after a day's haymaking. The team
of horses went quite quietly until they reached Pound Hill,
when suddenly without any warning,
The team began a-snortin' and a-blowin' and a tramplin' agen one
side of the road to another. They were likes to turn round. Carter
jumped down to their heads and began pattin' them, when he said,
" Look ! Them horses can see more than we. Look at that white
thing a-bobbin' up and down over their heads." We all looked and
saw what he was pointing at. This white thing kept on a-bobbin'
and a-bobbin', and the horses continued a-snortin' and a-snortin'
until we came to a gate just before the Church, when the white
thing vanished through the gate, and the team became quite quiet.
Later on, I became assistant to Mrs. Flower. She kept a baker's
shop, and I had to lay the leaven for the bread every evening.
Sundays Mrs. Flower always had supper with her mother at
Wickham Heath. For this she had to go up Benham Hill. One
evening she returned as white as a ghost and lay on the sofa as if
she were going to die. She said, " I be all of a shake and a
tremble. I did see summat white on the gate at the hill. Never
shall I go to supper agen with my mother of an evening." And
she never did. I replied, " I never seen nothing there on that
hill ; I have been up and down all hours of the night." I
remember the date, it must have been on a summer's evening
about 35 years ago. [Polly Barrett chimed in and said, " Quite
right, you were a courtin' and you told me."] A few days alter,
between nine and ten in the evening, I was a-comin' down Benham
Hill. Between the two gates, I heard a rattle on the stones as of
JUNE, 1908. Experiments in Thought Transference. 261
an animal pawing the ground. I looked to see what 't was. I
saw summat like a sheep. I went to poke un with my stick when
it vanished away.
Another time me and my brother George were walking late near
Ferris Cottage. We heard summat that made such a rumpus like
stones tipped down from a cart. We groped about and walked to
and agen to and agen, and waited to hear summat more, but could
not make out nothing, so we just walked home. My father always
told me these apparitions were put down to Tommy King.
(Signed) JOHN BARRETT, Wickham Heath.
POLLY BARRETT.
The following were my own experiences at Hoe Benham :
On Sunday, February 16th, 1908, I arranged to join Mr. Waud
and go to the Church with him at Hoe Benham to 3 o'clock
service. All the morning I felt in a weird, trance-like state, the
condition I get into when I have visions of coming events, changes
likely to affect my future. I described these sensations both to
Mr. Pittman and to Mr. Waud. After Church I felt compelled
to walk towards Tommy King's chalk well, as 1 wished to see the
road along which the team of horses came, which were so terrified
at the white thing bobbing up and down over their heads. We
thought we would go and have tea with Mr. and Mrs. Le Mesurier,
who live at the end of the lane just opposite Halfway Inn. To
reach them from Hoe Benham we always take a short cut across
the fields. I looked over the old inn, and the proprietor showed
me where the old stables stood, where the bell was always rung to
get the horses ready for changing teams. I take a great interest
in all coaching matters and horses, for I have hunted all my life,
and my father was a splendid whip, also one of the finest heavy
weights of his day across country. After tea, Mr. Waud and I
walked back. On passing Tommy King's well an overpowering
sense of suffocation seized me, I felt the presence of some awful
being. This evil spirit seemed to follow me up Pound Hill. I
felt it longing to do me some bodily injury, there was such deadly
malice and hate in the air. I described all this to Mr. Waud.
We constantly looked around but could see nothing. These
sensations continued all the way back, but grew worse as we
walked up Benham Hill. After the cottage was passed a shiver
went down my back and spine, the same kind of shock I ex
perience when dowsing and walking over water. Suddenly quite
close to us on the road the stillness of the evening was broken
by an unearthly scream which seemed to end in a moan. As the
sound seemed so very close to us, we both looked round to see
if anything was near which would have produced it, but nothing
whatever was visible. We both were speechless for a minute,—
the effect was so awful. We hardly spoke till we reached Laburnum
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1908.
Villa, the time being about six o'clock. It was only the next day,
in comparing notes, that we found this dreadful wailing cry was
heard on the exact spot where the phantom pig was seen by Mr.
Pittman following me on November 2nd, 1907.
Two evenings after, on February 18th, I walked to Tommy King's
chalk well with Mr Pittman to try if any more strange phenomena
could be seen. It was a brilliant moonlight night. No evil beings
were there to disturb the stillness of this evening, all was calm
and peaceful. I tried automatic writing, and two sentences were
written twice over; they came with such lightning speed, no human
hand could have written that pace alone. The words were, " I
am in hell, pray for me, I am in hell, pray for me " ; nothing
more. On walking back we looked around and across the lane a
white band of light appeared ;—the same sparkling effect I have
sometimes seen at sea, from the deck of a yacht on a dark night,
shimmering on the ocean. It was of a quite different quality from
the moonlight. This luminous effect undulated up and down, back
wards and forwards, and seemed to come towards us, till it
appeared to be only five yards away ; it was about a foot from
the ground ; it then receded and disappeared. We both saw it ;
most strange and mysterious it appeared in the brilliant moonlight.
Another evening a little later I walked down with Mr. Pittman
but nothing of special interest occurred. But the pencil wrote
automatically, " I am happier."
On Benham Hill where so many strange apparitions have been
seen, one evening when it was half daylight, half dark, I distinctly
saw a white shadowy form which appeared like drapery standing
against the gate. No one else saw this.
On Thursday, February 27th, my last evening at Hoe Benham,
I dined at the cottage, and Mr. Pittman and Mr. Waud walked
back with me. We were laughing and talking. Suddenly our
conversation was interrupted by this unearthly moaning cry, which
came wailing across the stillness of the evening. This doleful
sound seemed to come over our heads from the roof of the Chapel
which is exactly opposite Laburnum Villa. We all heard it. It
was a repetition of the groan Mr. Waud and I heard the other
evening preceded by that awful scream.
(Signed) CLARISSA MILES.
REGINALD WAUD.
OSMUND PITTMAN.
Mr. Waud adds :
On Monday, February 24th, whilst Pittman and I were taking
tea in the cottage, two distinct taps were heard on the door just
behind us. Both dogs started barking. I got up, thinking some
one had called. I went to both doors and not a sign of any one
or anything was to be seen. It was about 6.15.
REGINALD WAUD.
JUNE, 1908. The Society for Psychical Research. 263
THE SOCIETY FOE PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
LOCAL SECTIONS.
THE Council having received the report of the Sub-Committee
appointed to consider the establishment and recognition of
Local Sections resolved as follows :
1. Upon the receipt of a request to that effect from a
sufficient number of existing members and associates of the
Society (including honorary members and honorary associates),
together with other persons resident in any defined and suit
able area who are desirous of becoming members of a local
section, the Council is willing to entertain such request, and
at its discretion to sanction the establishment of a local
section of the Society in such area, reserving nevertheless the
power to dissolve or cease to recognise such local section at
any time after it has been formed.
2. Upon receipt of a request from any existing local
Society (having objects kindred to those of the Society) to
become united or allied to the Society, the Council is
willing to entertain such request, and at its discretion to
arrange for the union or alliance with or recognition of such
local society, reserving power to determine such union, alliance,
or recognition at any time.
3. The following general conditions shall apply to any
request for the formation of any local section or for the union
or alliance with or recognition of any local Society :
(a) The request referred to in the previous clauses of this
resolution shall be signed by at least 10 persons, of whom
not fewer than 5 shall be members or associates of the Society.
(b) The membership of any local section (which expression
shall include any existing local Society which may be recog
nised) shall consist of the members and associates of the
Society residing within the local area and of such other
persons therein as are desirous of joining the local section
subject to these rules, provided always that the membership
of a local section shall not be less than 20, of whom not
fewer than 5 shall be and continue members or associates of
the Society.
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JTOE, 1908.
(c) The subscription payable by local members shall be
determined by the local section.
(d) When convinced that a local section gives promise of
receiving adequate local support, and of being useful to the
cause of Psychical Eesearch, the Council will make such a
pecuniary grant as it deems sufficient to provide for the pre
liminary expenses of its establishment.
(e) The affairs of each local section shall be managed by a
local Committee, consisting of a Chairman (who shall be a
member or associate of the Society), an honorary Secretary,
and not fewer than six local members, one of whom shall act
as Treasurer.
(/) The Officers and Committee of each local section shall
be elected annually, and the mode and time of election shall
be as nearly as possible the same as the mode and time of
the election of the Officers and Council of the Society.
(g) The Committee of each local section shall arrange and
manage its affairs in conformity so far as is possible with the
practice of the Society.
(A) Each local section shall be at liberty to enact its own
bye-laws.
(i) Papers read before the Society shall, when possible, be
sent in proof to each local section with the view of their
being read at local meetings, but in no case shall any such
paper be read at a local section before it has been read at a
meeting of the Society.
(f) Every paper read at a local section shall in full or
in abstract be sent to the Council of the Society, and may
be read at any meeting thereof, and shall become the absolute
property of the Society, unless the author's rights are specially
reserved.
(k) A copy of every document or paper printed or issued
by any local section shall be sent to the offices of the Society.
(I) Any local section may become a corporate Member or
Associate of the Society as public libraries now do, and shall
enjoy as to the use of the Society's library the rights incident
to its subscription as Member or Associate under the rules of
the Society.
No. CCLI.—VOL. XIII. JULY, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates 265
Meeting of the Council 2fi6
Private Meeting for Members and Associates 26(i
Reviews, 275
Notice, 280
The Booms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
l>e closed during August and September, re-opening on Tuesday,
October 1st.
The next number of the Journal will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Barlow, The Rev. J. W., The Cottage, Eaheny, Co. Dublin.
Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames.
EWART, Miss M. A., 68 Albert Hall Mansions, London, S.W.
GRKET, MHS., Caens Wood, Weybridge, Surrey.
Haig, Mrs. G. Ogilvy, 65 Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.
HOLME, STRACHAN, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Hull, Mrs. C. G., 112 Academy Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., U.S.A
KALLEN, HORACE MEYER, 28 Lynde Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
LEWIS, DAVID J., Walsh Building, Cumberland, Md., U.S.A.
LIBRARIAN, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
MACDONALD, THE HON. MRS. GODFREY, Portree House, Portree,
Isle-of-Skye, N.B.
MAcDoUGALL, Mrs. Charles, Wolseley Barracks, London, Ontario.
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
MEHRJI, MUNCHERSHAW HORMUSJI, M.D., 340 Grant Road, Bombay,
India.
SHARPLEY, THE REV. ARTHUR E., B.A., B.D., 48 Oxford Road,
Bootle, Liverpool.
TSCHISTIAKOFF, P. A., Maison Neidhardt, Arbai 50, Moscow, Russia.
WILSON, THE REV. ALEXANDER, M.A., The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch,
Aberdeenshire.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 92nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, June 29th, 1908—the President,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, in the Chair. There were also present :
Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Hon. Everard Feilding, the Rev. A.
T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
Frank Podmore, Mr. S. C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Lieut-
Colonel G. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Miss Alice
Johnson, Research Officer, and Mr. R. A. H. Bickford-Smith,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and twelve new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly account for May, 1908, was presented and
taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
THE 23rd Meeting for Members and Associates only was held
in the large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Monday, June 29th, 1908, at 4 p.m. ; the PRESIDENT, MRS.
SIDGWICK, in the chair.
COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO'S paper on " The Hal
lucination Theory as applied to certain cases of Physical
Phenomena " was read by Miss ALICE JOHNSON. The following
is a brief abstract of the paper :
The theory that many of the so-called " Physical Phenomena
of Spiritualism " may be put down to hallucinations or illusions
induced in the sitters by the medium has from time to time
been propounded by different writers. In favour of it we
JULY, 1908. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 267
may urge the a priori improbability of the supposed pheno
mena, the repeated exposures of fraud, the growing revelations
of the possibilities of suggestion, and the strong evidence that
exists for the occasional occurrence of collective hallucinations.
The writer discusses how far this theory can account for those
physical phenomena which are most difficult to explain. He
by no means denies the possibility of explaining many of the
manifestations by fraud, but his present discussion is confined
to the validity of the explanation by hallucination or illusion,
i.e., he considers whether the phenomena are subjective or objec
tive, not whether they are fraudulent or genuine.
He also excludes from his review the whole domain of
Eastern and Far Eastern Magic. Although some striking cases
have recently been reported 1 which seem to point to something
like collective hypnotisation as their explanation, these cases
are far too few to be used as material for speculation. It is
possible that certain modes of deception may have been
developed in the East and remained unknown in the West ;
but on the only occasion when the well-known story of the
photographing of Indian conjurors without their tricks being
reproduced on the photographic plate assumed a form capable
of being investigated, it turned out to be a hoax.2
A specially instructive case for discussion is that of the
" spirit-hands " so frequently reported to have been seen at the
sittings with D. D. Home. Two circumstances strongly suggest
that these " hands " were hallucinatory : (1) That they were
often not equally visible to all the persons present; e.g. one
person would see a more or less nebulous-looking hand, and
another a luminous cloud, while a third would see nothing.
(2) That when tightly grasped by the hand of one of the sitters,
the spirit-hand would- sometimes appear slowly to melt away.
On the other hand, the following circumstances—especially
the second one—tend to sbow that Home's spirit-hands, whether
fraudulent or genuine, were objective:
(1) They were seen by a large number of persons at different
times and often by several simultaneously.
1 See Journal S.P.R, Vol. XL, pp. 299-308 (Nov., 1904) and Vol. XII.,
p. 30 (Feb., 1905).
2 See Journal S.P.R. Vol. V., pp. 84-6 (June, 1891).
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 190S.
(2) They are constantly described as performing actions with
a permanent result ; e.g. moving objects from one place to
another. And it is specially noteworthy that when this
occurred, some of the sitters again would not see the hand,
but only the object moving, while others would see a hand
moving it. Some instances of this were given.
In these cases, then, we have to account for the movement of
the object, as well as for the appearance of the hand.
The same difficulty sometimes meets us in the case of full-form
phantasms. An instance was given where an appearance was
seen by one person only, after a suggestion, more or less direct,
was made by the medium to that person. In another case the
apparition of Home's wife was seen by three persons at once,
but the apparition left no traces behind to prove its objective
character.
In another case, however, recorded by Mr. W. Stainton Moses,
and corroborated later by Lady Crookes, at a sitting with
Home, a materialised form was seen which carried an accordion
across the room towards Lady Crookes, and then vanished.
The fact of its moving the accordion seems good evidence
that the apparition, whether genuine or fraudulent, was
objective.
Some of Home's " fire-tests " with red-hot coals and hot
lamp chimneys are still more difficult to explain by hallucina
tion, e.g. when one man gets a blister on his finger after
touching a lamp chimney which has just been found cool to
the touch by two other persons ; when a red-hot coal which
has just been handled with impunity by Home and a lady sets
fire to a piece of paper; or when a match ignites on touching
a lamp chimney which has been left for a few minutes in a
glowing fire, after which Home put it in his mouth and applied
his tongue to it.
In spite of all this evidence to the objective character of
many of the most remarkable physical phenomena, the writer
does not deny that some incidents connected with spiritistic
seances may be explained by hallucination ; namely, those
experienced by only one sitter at a time, when the explanation
by fraud presents serious difficulties, and when there is no
other positive evidence for the actual occurrence of the
JULY, 1908. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 269
phenomenon. In such cases we are logically bound to conclude,
at least provisionally, that the sitter was subject to an illusion
of the senses.
The writer believed that this was the explanation of what
he had often witnessed at the sittings of the late Kussian
medium Sambor ; l when, the medium's hands being held,
chairs would be threaded on his arm without, as far as his
neighbours could ascertain, his hands having been released
for a moment. Probably one of his neighbours was mistaken
in thinking that he had not let go of the hand, from which
it follows that there must have been a moment during which
he had a hallucinatory impression of a hand in his.
The writer desired to make it clear that, though he rejected
hallucination as an adequate explanation of most of the cases
he had discussed, it by no means followed that he was
convinced of their genuineness. Although impressed with
much of the Home evidence, he thought it presented serious
drawbacks in the remoteness of the incidents and the impos
sibility of repeating them ; the almost unlimited possibilities
of conjuring and the numberless exposures of other mediums;
the fact that many, and probably most, of the sitters seem to
have been quite incompetent investigators, and that their
evidence is consequently worthless ; the frequent looseness of
conditions at the sittings; and finally that even Home's career
was not free from suspicious incidents. All these circumstances
militate against the acceptance of his phenomena as genuine.
Further it may be urged that no worthy successor of his has
yet appeared, while we are constantly learning of new sources
of error and realising more and more the general unreliability
in these matters of almost all persons who are not specially
trained and qualified experts. Still, after framing on some such
lines as these a provisional negative conclusion, let us all hope
that a day may come when a second Home will triumphantly
reverse it.
THE HON. EVERARD FEILDING said that he found it difficult to
draw any satisfactory positive conclusions from Count Solovovo's
paper. At its commencement he had supposed that the writer
1 See Annales den Sciences Psychiques for 1899, 1900, 1902 and 1904, passim ;
and Proceedings S.P.R., Part LV., pp. 396-7.
270 Journal for Society of Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
would try to show either that the hypothesis of collective
hallucination was sufficient to explain the phenomena, or that
fraud must be concluded throughout, or finally that some of the
phenomena were genuine. But it turned out that the writer did
not commit himself to any of these conclusions, but only to
the view that hallucination was an insufficient explanation. For
his part Mr. Feilding was disposed to agree with this opinion.
It did not seem to him possible that either fraud alone or
hallucination alone could account for all the phenomena reported
by Lord Adare in connection with Home. We should have to
assume at least a combination of a great deal of fraud with a
great deal of hallucination to explain them all away.
He thought it very doubtful whether collective visual hallu
cinations could be induced in persons of anything approaching
a normal constitution in a waking state. Even in hypnotised
subjects, his own experience was that the sense of sight was
the last of the senses to be affected by suggestion. It is
common to meet with subjects in whom hallucinations could
be readily produced in all other senses, but not in that of sight.
He had, however, been experimenting lately with an unusually
interesting and susceptible subject in whose case no sugges
tion failed. Thus, in imitation of an experiment of Professor
Barrett's, he had made the subject believe that he saw him
(Mr. Feilding) floating round the room in the air when he
was really walking round on the floor, and it was noteworthy
that the subject on waking still believed (as the result of
post-hypnotic suggestion) that he had witnessed the levita-
tion, and was quite unaware that he had been hypnotised.
He made the same subject believe that he had witnessed
an impossible conjuring trick, performed by an amateur con
juror who was actually present. The conjuror put a watch on
a chair under a handkerchief, and then stood at a distance
while the subject verified this fact. He then stated that when
he counted five, the watch would be found in a casket on
the other side of the room. The conjuror counted up to four,
when Mr. Feilding quickly entranced the subject, and the
watch was put in the casket. Then the conjuror began
counting again, and counted up to five, the . subject being
awakened at four. He had by suggestion been made oblivious
JULY, 1908. Private Meeting /or Members and Associates. 271
of all that had happened after the first 4 was uttered until
the 5 was uttered, and believed that this had followed
immediately after the first 4. Nor, again, did he know
that he had been hypnotised, and was consequently greatly
impressed by the conjuror's skill.
These experiments showed that practically any deceptions
could be produced in a sufficiently suggestible person, while it
was possible to produce them without the person knowing, or
at least remembering, that he had been hypnotised at all.
It did not, however, follow that people in general were
liable to such delusions, nor that they could be produced
without hypnosis, though there was a certain amount, of evi
dence that in the East large crowds, or at all events, a large
proportion of them, could be thus hallucinated without hypno-
tisation. Mr. Feilding thought it possible that here and there
one of the persons at a seance might be hallucinated, or perhaps
as many as two at a time; but he doubted the possibility of
producing a collective hallucination in several persons at once,
and thought the theory quite inapplicable to the great mass of
Home's phenomena.
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON, though disclaiming a belief in the
hallucination theory, observed that we must take into account
the fact that probably only a very small proportion of Home's
phenomena had been recorded, and those, doubtless, were only
the successful ones, the others not being considered interesting
or worth noting. It was therefore possible to argue that in
the course of all the sittings many suggestions had probably
been made by him which had failed , to take effect, and that
only those successfully imposed on specially suggestible sitters
had got recorded. In other words, a gradual elimination of
unsuggestible and a gradual selection of suggestible sitters was
always going on ; and so it was not necessary to suppose such
a wholesale power of inducing hallucinations as Mr. Feilding
seemed to think was required.
DR. H. D. R. KINGSTON gave an account of a conjuring trick
reported to him by an engineer on board a New Zealand
liner, who appeared to him and to others to be a good witness.
This gentleman told him that on one occasion while his ship
was in harbour a Hindoo conjuror came on board and gave a
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
performance on the deck to six or seven of the officers. The
narrator happening to come up from below while this was being
done, watched the conjuror from behind, being himself unseen.
He saw the conjuror produce an egg, and heard him make chirping
sounds suggestive of a chicken, coming out of it, and afterwards
wave his arms and point in the air to suggest that a full-
grown bird was flying about, and finally that it had flown
away. While the narrator saw nothing but the egg and the
gestures of the conjuror, the other officers assured him after
wards that they had seen a chicken and a full-grown bird
which flew away.
MR. F. PODMORE remarked in regard to Home's phenomena
that Home, not being dependent on payment for his sittings,
was in a position to select his sitters, and did so with
great care. It was considered a great favour to be admitted,
and he exercised freely his privilege of rejection. It was
therefore probable that he only allowed persons to frequent
the sittings after he had found by experience that they were
more or less suggestible. It appeared from the published records
that not more than about twenty or, at the outside, thirty
persons witnessed his phenomena, and these were probably
selected from a large number of possible sitters. The mere act
of sitting with him must have constituted a training in sug
gestibility, like that undergone by practised hypnotic subjects.
An interesting instance of the effect of training on suggesti
bility was shown in some recent experiments on the " Reichen-
bach " phenomena reported from the new psycho-physical
laboratory at Amsterdam. The experiments were made to test
the supposition that when a steel bar was magnetised luminous
effects were produced, which were visible to certain persons.
Out of 70 or 80 persons, about 50 saw flashes of light frequently
in the course of the experiments, but these impressions occurred
at random, and had no constant relation to the moments when
the steel bar was magnetised. After a few weeks, however,
some six or seven out of the persons experimented with
seemed to develop the faculty of seeing the flashes at the
moment of magnetisation. This was probably to be attributed
to an extra sensitivity developed by training, which enabled them
to perceive slight indications of the working of the apparatus.
JDLY, 1908. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 273
DR. M. H. MEHKJI related some experiences of his own
with a yogi from the Himalayas, whose performances used to
be witnessed by many Englishmen of high standing in
India. This yogi could make a large audience, including
many educated Europeans, believe that they saw almost
anything he chose—e.g. a live monkey hopping about the room,
or a snake wriggling about among them. The speaker had
arranged with a friend of his to take photographs to test
whether the object seen was real or hallucinatory, and in no case
had the object been reproduced in the photograph. He himself
had several times shared in these collective hallucinations.
SIR LAWRENCE JONES asked whether it could be supposed
possible that a medium while entranced could give suggestions
to sitters. Thus he was once at a sitting where the medium
—a lady well known to him—was in a deep trance, lying on
a sofa at one side of the room. Raps came on a table near
the sitters, and at some distance from the medium, which
informed them that she was lying with her head in a very
uncomfortable position, and that a pillow should be put under
her head to support it. They then looked at her, and saw
that she did seem to be requiring some such support. Could
it reasonably be supposed that the entranced medium pro
duced on the sitters the impression of hearing raps which
gave this appropriate information ?
MR. FEILDING replied that if mediums could produce such
impressions, he saw no reason why the trance condition should
interfere with the power.
MR. W. W. BAGGALLY, referring to Count Solovovo's descrip
tion of Sambor's performance of apparently getting chairs
threaded on his arm while his hands were being held by the
persons sitting on each side of him, gave a practical demon
stration of a method by which a similar trick could be per
formed and had actually been performed by a well-known
medium in his presence. In this case the medium rapidly but
quietly turns his chair, immediately after the room has been
darkened, so that its back is at his side. He then passes his
arm through the back and allows the sitters to hold his hands.
After some time he suggests that the chair is being pulled
away from under him. He stands up and the sitters find the
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
chair hanging on his arm ; or—better still—as he stands up, he
may contrive to slip the chair on to the arm of the person
who is holding his hand on that side, and this person can
truthfully assert that he has not let go the medium's hand
for a moment since he began to hold it.
Mr. Baggally showed further how the apparent illusion,
described by a spiritualistic lady to Count Solovovo, of two
chairs hanging on a sitter's arm, and their backs then seeming
to part in two, so that they fall to the floor,1 could have been
produced. In this case, after the room has been darkened, the
medium does not pass his arm through the back of a chair,
but after giving his hands to his neighbouring sitters, pushes
one sitter's chair with his foot, so as to give the impression
that the chair is being pulled away. The sitter then stands up
and the medium and his other neighbour do the same. Then
the medium by means of his foot arranges two chairs in front
of him back to back and distant about five inches from each
other. (The sound of the moving about of chairs which the
lady described to Count Solovovo was probably due to this
arrangement.) The medium when moving aside his hand
together with that of the sitter (as described by the lady)
passes the latter's arm side by side with his own through
the backs of both chairs, at such a slope that only the back
of the nearer one is felt, which suggests that one chair
only is hanging on the sitter's arm. The sitter is " advised
to bring the lower part of his arm close to the upper
part " and then feels the back of the second chair resting on
his arm also. Meanwhile he does not suspect that the chairs
are also hanging on the medium's arm. The sitter " having
squeezed both chairs," the medium throws his body backwards
and straightens his arm, thus bringing his elbow to a higher
level than the sitter's. This causes the chairs to rise from the
sitter's arm and slide down the medium's arm on to the floor.
The sudden cessation of contact with the chairs gives the sitter
the " feeling as if their backs had parted in two." Light chairs
with straight backs are best for this trick.
JSee Proceedings S.P.R., Part LV., pp. 396-7, foot-note.
JULY, 1908. Reviews. 275
REVIEWS.
On the Threshold of a New World of Thought. By W. F. BARRETT,
F.R.S. London 1908. Pp. xv. 127. 2s. 6d.
EARLY in our Society's history, Professor Henry Sidgwick, our first
President, wrote, "It is a scandal the dispute as to the reality of
the marvellous phenomena of spiritualism should still be going on :
phenomena of which it is quite impossible to exaggerate the
scientific importance if only a tenth part of what has been alleged
by generally credible witnesses could be shown to be true."
This dictum, which after the lapse of five and twenty years is
unfortunately almost as applicable as when it was uttered, Professor
Barrett takes as a text for the work which now we notice. For
reasons given in the preface, though in substance it was prepared
and formed the subject matter of a lecture delivered at the invitation
of the London Spiritualistic Alliance some fourteen years ago, its
publication has been delayed until to-day ; but all investigators of
the subject will welcome its appearance as opportune.
Of course most of the evidence which it succinctly recites will be
familiar to those of our members who have long been associated
with us and have studied our publications, but readers will be
pleased to find that the study has been brought up to date by
the incorporation of some recent and well-authenticated cases. The
summary which is here given of the state of the prolonged and even
perennial argument by such a judicious and experienced investigator
as the author cannot fail to be of immense value to those (and their
number seems to be increasing every year) who are attracted to
the subject. Especially must this be so in the case of those who
are comparatively unacquainted with the past history of the inquiry,
and who are scarcely able to trace its course in the many volumes
of our Proceedings.
The author, moreover, does not confine himself to a mere re
capitulation of the evidence for the actual occurrence of the physical
phenomena in question. He fairly meets the criticisms of two
classes of assailants who object to the investigation altogether. The
objection on religious grounds is one which scarcely calls for
consideration in these pages, inasmuch as the very existence of our
Society is sufficient evidence that its supporters have formed something
like a collective judgment on that aspect of the question. More
frequently, perhaps, we meet with the " Cui bono " objection, the
contention that after so many years of experiment nothing of value
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
has been discovered through any physical manifestation, nothing
trustworthy through any alleged communication. Professor Barrett's
reply to this criticism is conclusive. I can well imagine a scoffer
standing by when Franklin's kite drew an electric current from the
•clouds and asking, "And now you have done it, what the better is
any one 1 " But we have not exhausted the results of that experiment
yet.
Professor Barrett boldly adopts the spiritualistic explanation of the
phenomena at any rate as a provisional hypothesis ; but no one will
be more ready than he to admit that a general adoption of this view
is by no means to be expected at present ; and no one would be less
•desirous that we should be in a hurry to pronounce on so great a
subject. Certainly, however, its adoption by some of the acutest
thinkers and most careful investigators of this generation entitles it
to respectful consideration. De Morgan, who is often quoted in the
work, wrote more than forty years ago as follows : " I am perfectly
convinced that I have both seen and heard in a manner which should
make unbelief impossible, things called spiritual which cannot be
taken by any rational being to be capable of explanation by imposture,
coincidence or mistake. So far I feel the ground firm under me.
But when it comes to what is the cause of these phenomena, I find
I cannot adopt any explanation which has yet been suggested. . . .
But thinking it very likely that the universe may contain a few
agencies—say half-a-million—about which no man knows anything,
I cannot but suspect that a small proportion of these agencies—say
five thousand—may be severally competent to the production of all
the phenomena, or may be quite up to the task among them. The
physical explanations which I have seen are easy, but miserably
insufficient: the spiritual hypothesis is sufficient but ponderously
difficult. Time and thought will decide, the second asking the first
for more results of trial."
Notwithstanding the history of these forty years in the wilderness,
it is probable that many of our readers will even now be scarcely
willing to go further than this ; but however views may differ, I
am sure that the invitation contained in the concluding words of
the quotation is one which every earnest inquirer will endorse,
and no one more eagerly than the writer of the work under notice.
H. ARTHUR SJIITH.
Jew, 1908. Reviews. 277
Dreimonatlicher Bericht des Psychophysischen Laboratoriums zu
Amsterdam. Jahrgang I. No. 3. 1907.
In the last quarterly Eeport of the Psycho-physical Laboratory in
Amsterdam there is an account by Floris Jansen of some interesting
experiments in thought-transference. Herr F. M. Geels and Herr
F. E. Visser acted alternately as agent and percipient : the experiments
were conducted and the results recorded by Herr Jansen. The
results were such as to convince all the persons concerned,—who
came to the trials without any experience in the subject, and as they
claim, with open minds,—of the existence of "a mental rapport"
between the two parties to the experiment.
The method of experimenting was as follows : Twenty-five cards
were prepared, about eight inches square, having words or figures
written or printed on them. The percipient sat at a small table.
The agent stood behind him, and Herr Jansen, after they had taken
their places, handed to the agent one of the cards, drawn from the
pack. The agent looked at the card attentively for a short time,
and then generally placed it behind him. Each experiment lasted
five minutes. The percipient drew or noted down on paper any
ideas that came to him. No word was allowed to pass between
percipient and agent.
In the first series there were thirty-five trials, of which fifteen were
complete failures : in nine cases there was some correspondence
between the percipient's impression and the subject set, but not
enough to justify the counting of the results as successes : the
remaining eleven cases Herr Jansen thinks may be regarded as more
or less successful.
One of the successful experiments, which Herr Jansen records at
length, was as follows :
"On the 8th June of this year (1907), a very successful evening,
on which not a single experiment failed, I gave Herr Geels, who
was acting as agent, a card with the word ape written on it. It
should be noted that this was the first occasion on which a card with
the picture or the name of an animal or of any object had been
given ; we had hitherto confined ourselves exclusively to mathematical
figures and numbers, so that there could not be the slightest expecta
tion of the nature of the thing to be guessed. The result was as
follows : After a short interval of darkness the percipient, Herr Visser,
saw the figure of a large crab on the opposite wall : he said that
the animal was moving its feet. After some time the picture
disappeared, and there came in its place the picture of an ant : ' it
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
is brown,' he said, 'and has long hairs, just like an ant.' (It is
to be noted that generally speaking one would picture to oneself an
ant as without hairs.) Once more the picture changed, and Herr
Visser now fancied that he was looking at the ant through a
microscope, for it seemed enormous. At this moment time was up,
and the experiment ended. The result was interesting, if only
because when a mathematical figure or cypher might have been
expected, the picture of an animal appeared. When I asked
Herr Visser to draw what he had seen, I got the accompanying
figure, which in fact doesn't bear much resemblance to an ant.
We see how little value must be attached to the name which the
percipient gives to the picture presented to his mental vision. We
were already disposed to count this experiment a success, on the
ground that during the three months over which the experiments had
hitherto extended, neither the name nor the picture of an animal had
been set, or had occurred to the percipient, so that it seemed very
improbable that the coincidence could be due to chance. But we
were confirmed in our view, when we learnt from Herr Geels, the
agent, that embarrassed at the sight of the word ' ape,' and not
knowing how to ' translate ' it, since he had been accustomed to
deal only with mathematical figures, which he could easily represent
to himself, he resolved to picture to himself the big ape at the
Zoological Gardens, as he had seen it standing upright against
the bars of the cage. Now, if we suppose that the drawing here
reproduced was made by a child,1 and if we remember that the
percipient fancied that he saw his ant through a microscope and
covered with long hairs, we must, I think, admit that there was
a strong resemblance between the images present to the mind of
agent and percipient respectively."
During the earlier part of the experiment the agent kept his
hands on the back of the chair on which the percipient was seated.
Later, he put his hands on the percipient's shoulders, and it was at
this point that Herr Visser fancied he saw the ant through a microscope.
It is difficult, as Herr Jansen says, to conceive how the idea of a
large hairy animal could have been conveyed by unconscious muscular
movements. Nor is it easy to see how any information could have
been gained by the ears ; since the Dutch words for crab (kreeft)
and ant (mier) bear no resemblance to ape (Aap).
1 In the earlier part of his paper Herr Jansen had argued that the percipient
in his endeavour to seize and interpret the image flashed on his mint! from the
agent is in the position of a small child trying to draw or describe some new
object.
JULY, 1908. Reviews. 279
In the three other experiments made on the same evening the
results were almost equally suggestive of imperfect seeing on the part
of the percipient. In the second trial, the card chosen was entirely
covered with a dark-blue paper, which in a dim light showed
simply as a dark colour. The percipient said that there didn't seem
to be much white there—it was all dark—then he saw a large black
circle, and a much smaller, thinner circle—then a steamboat—then
he saw again the brown colour—he could not make out any figure—
then it became somewhat lighter. At this point the time expired,
and the experiment terminated.
In the third trial the design on the card consisted of twelve circles
in three or four rows. The percipient—in this instance Herr Geels—
said, "It is all circles crossing each other ('durcheinander,' 'door
•elkaar'), something like a melon."
In the fourth trial the design was a line twisted round on itself in
all directions, which gave the impression of a picture of a very
complicated knot. Herr Visser, the percipient, saw a figure like a
•capital V twining about in every direction, and constantly changing
its place. In fact, as it appeared, the agent, when he looked at the
figure, had specially concentrated his attention on the junctions of
the lines, which in several places presented the form of a capital V.
It is noteworthy that in none of these four trials did the percipient
see anything that was absolutely irrelevant or incorrect, except
perhaps the steamboat in experiment No. 2. But this was probably
suggested by the dark colour which preceded it. In all four cases
the description given by the percipient is, as Herr Jansen points out,
just such as might have been given by a person who saw the actual
picture under unfavourable conditions.
It is to be hoped that Herr Jansen will shortly publish a full
account of the experiments, and that he will continue them until he
has obtained even more decisive results.
In two points, however, it may be suggested, his method of
experimenting is open to some objections. It does not appear that the
card chosen for the experiment was taken at random from the pack
held in his hands. If the card was selected, instead of being drawn
at random, it is possible to explain the results as due to the
operation of chance-association of ideas common to the minds of all
the experimenters. At least, the results will always be open to that
•objection.
In the second place, it is extremely desirable that all contact
whatever between agent and percipient should be eliminated. No
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1908.
doubt it may have been expedient to allow such contact as is here
described in the first instance, until the experimenters had met with
some success. But it should not be difficult, now that some degree
of success has been obtained, gradually to improve the conditions in
this respect.
We shall await with interest further reports from Herr Jansen.
FRANK PODMORE.
NOTICE.
IT is hoped that a Part of the Proceedings, containing Mrs.
Sidgwick's Presidential Address and Mr. J. G. Piddington's
Report on the Sittings with Mrs. Piper, will be published
in October.
No. CCLIL—VOL. XIII. OCTOBER, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE PAGE
Cases—Dream, 1170, 282
Dream, 1171, - - - - 2S4
Slate-Writing, 293
Correspondence, 295
Reviews—Boirac, 2S5 Notice, 296
Carrington, - - - - 2SS Wanted, 296
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2nd, 1908, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER BY
MONSIEUR M. SAGE
ON
" The alleged Miraculous Hailstones at
Remiremont "
WILL BE READ.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
CASES.
L. 1171. Coincident dream.
THIS is a case in which the dreamer has for some time been
much interested in psychic phenomena, and kept pencil and
paper ready to hand in order to record any unusual phenomenon.
As to whether the incident was in any way connected with the
dream there will be a difference of opinion, but the resemblance
is striking enough to make it worth recording.
ith January, 1908.
Dear Sir,—I enclose an account of dream which occurred to my
youngest sister in this house, apparently just before waking at 2 a.m.,
1st January, 1908.
Being of a psychopathic nature, she is accustomed to keep paper
and pencil by her bedside for automatic writing, eyelid visions,
dreams, etc., or clairaudient experiences, so was able to note it at
once.
My sister read it aloud to us at breakfast, apologising for its
unappetising details. We all felt sure it had some meaning,
because as a family we have had several curious experiences of the
sort which have been verified by facts later. I remarked that it might
have reference to a hospital in London, with street accidents, and
patients on beds, and underground corridors. This solution occurred
to me, I suppose, because I am contemplating work of the sort before
very long in town.
I can answer for the bcma fides of the dream, and hope it may be
of interest to you, as the explosion in Rome was the first piece of
news which came to my ears from the outside world during the
morning.—Yours faithfully, F. S. W.
If you should ever report the case, kindly record only initials of
persons and place.
ith January, 1908.
Dear Sir,—I wish to add my testimony to the accompanying
account, written by my sister, of a dream which occurred to my
youngest sister on the early morning of January 1st, 1908.
Feeling much impressed with her account, I felt convinced that
something of a similar nature would be reported in the paper.
So, immediately on receiving our daily Standard, I opened the
OCT., 1908. Cases. 283
paper, and saw a vivid report of the accident which occurred in
Rome. I folded back the page, and handing the paper to my sister,
said, " Here is your dream, and this account tallies with yours.
Hoping this may be of interest to your Society.—I am, faithfully
yours, .. E. W.
The following is the account of the dream :
2 a.m., 1st January, 1908.
I have just waked from a confused dream of which I do not
remember the whole, but I feel I must write it down as I am so
wide awake.
In the dream I seemed to be back in the old house, but it was
different; there were underground passages and rooms, but not the
same ; the kitchen, too, had a window which looked on a side street,
and this window had only half a shutter and no blind.
I have a dim memory of seeing and speaking to boys, who for some
reason I was scolding, but I felt that my warnings made no impression.
Then I seemed to be outside the house with grown-up people who
were talking and being disobedient and grumbling over something, I
don't know what. I remember smelling something horrible, and
seeing that some one had stepped into a hot pie, then the scene
changed into a room, the floor of which was covered in blood. Mother
(who is dead) went into the kitchen, looked out at the window, as
there was a great roar in the street, and the sound of vehicles in the
street above.
F came in and said, "Isn't it a pity? Mother was getting
on so well, and now she can't any more; even the other noise did
not disturb her, for she used to say they are. Tarantelle and
Gargantua, Lohengrin's horses galloping together with a rhythm as
much as to say, Never mind, never mind, you'll get to Walhalla,
you'll get to Walhalla." I went up and brought in two children, of
whom the cook had been complaining, and set them in two chairs
found they were two disobedient pupils.
I went into a room, and saw a little blood on my dress, and said
so. Mother said, "Do you mind that, there is blood here everywhere,"
and as I looked, it was everywhere.
I then returned to the kitchen, and said to the two children who
were complaining, " You mind that, why (looking through the window)
outside on a mattress are human beings writhing in agony from an
accident, and there is blood everywhere."
I then took my share in staunching it. Even the sky was blood-red,
I could'nt get the writhing human forms out of my mind. W.
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
L. 1172. Coincident dream.
THE first account of this case was sent by the percipient,
Mrs. Williams, to Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, who forwarded
it to us in a letter bearing the postmark, June 25th, 1908.
It was as follows :
Villa Bethell, Garmisch, Bavaria.
You will be interested in a rather curious coincidence (?) which
occurred yesterday.
Arthur and I had been travelling nearly all day and were tired
at night and slept soundly. The moment I woke I found myself
impressed with a singularly vivid dream—not detailed, but very
distinct. I thought I had torn my finger nail across, and was so
certain of it that I examined it critically and was almost surprised
to find it as usual. While I was looking at it Arthur said—"I
tore my nail last night: got out of bed to see if I could shut out
the coming light, and damaged my nail on the shutter : it is so
painful."
I said—" Did you speak, or say a word about it ? " He said
"No, I was most anxious to make no noise, as you were so tired
(one reason why I was shutting out the light) and I know I did
not wake you."
I had no recollection of anything of any kind, but fancied he
might have let slip a suggestive word or two, which penetrated my
consciousness without waking me, but he declares he did not.
In reply to a request for further details and confirmatory
evidence Mrs. Williams wrote to us :
July 13th, 1908.
Last month my husband and I were travelling in Bavaria, and I
was very tired on reaching Garmisch, in the Highlands.
I fell asleep directly we got into bed, and was conscious of
nothing until about 7 in the morning, when I found myself earnestly
examining my finger nail under the conviction that I had hurt it.
I was so sure of this that I was intensely surprised that I could
see no mark of injury.
I said to my husband "I have had such an extraordinary im
pression that I had torn my finger nail, but nothing is wrong with
it." To which he replied—"Why, I did hurt my nail in the night.
I woke at about 4.30, and seeing signs of daylight got up to try
OCT., 1908. Cases. 285
to close the outside shutters, damaging my finger nail in the
attempt." He then showed me his nail which was torn in rather a
painful way.
I asked if he had called out, or spoken when he did it, for
though I remembered nothing, I thought it possible a cry, or an
exclamation might have penetrated to my brain through my sleep.
He was certain he made no sound, being anxious not to wake me,
and returned to bed perfectly satisfied that he had not done so.
E. BAUMER WILLIAMS.
Mr. Williams adds :
I confirm the above statement of facts. In trying to close the
shutters I was most careful to be very quiet in order not to disturb
my wife. I even abstained from looking for scissors to trim the
broken nail lest I should make a noise.
THORNTON ARTHUR WILLIAMS.
36 Downshire Hill, Hampstead.
EEVIEWS.
La Psychologic Inconnue : Introduction et Contribution d I'Etvde Experi
mental des Sciences Psychiques. Par EMILE BOIRAC (Paris, 1908.
Pp. 347).
THIS book, as the author himself tells us, consists largely of articles
which have appeared in various reviews and periodicals between
the years 1893 and 1903, to which have been added some unpub
lished papers. It would perhaps have been better if he had frankly
retained the form of a collection of separate Essays, for a large
amount of repetition makes the book unsatisfactory regarded as a
systematic exposition of either facts or theories. A certain unity is,
however, given to it by the attempt running through the whole to
re-establish Mesmer's theory of animal magnetism—that is, an
effluence or "psychic force" emanating from some human bodies
which influences some other human bodies. This psychic force is,
in M. Boirac's view, the probable agent not only in various hypnotic
phenomena, but in telepathy and in the physical phenomena of
spiritualism (telekinesis). Comparatively few persons either radiate
it or experience any effects from it in any noticeable degree. He
believes, however, that the mass of mankind can serve as conductors
of it (a property which they share with metallic wires), and suggests
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
that it is because they are perfect conductors that no effect is
produced on them.
The most interesting parts of the book are the accounts of the experi
ments on which M. Boirac's conclusions are based, for he has been
singularly fortunate in finding several excellent hypnotic subjects,
and is himself a successful hypnotiser—or, shall we say, radiator of
psychic force. Unfortunately the experiments are very inadequately
described. Some of the most important of them—those recorded in
chapter vii.—were criticised by Dr. Walter Leaf in our Proceedings1
in a review of one of the articles now republished, and were sub
sequently discussed in a correspondence between Dr. Leaf and M.
Boirac in the S.P.R. Journal for March, 1896. In these experi
ments local effects of attraction, of anaesthesia, and various sensations
were produced on one Gustave P., when M. Boirac held his hand at
a short distance from different parts of his subject's body, or when
a third person in contact with M. Boirac did so. The young man
was blindfolded, and M. Boirac speaks repeatedly and emphatically
of the importance in such experiments of preventing any information
about what was being done reaching the subject through any of his
senses. Nevertheless, in the absence of a more complete account
than he gives us of the precautions taken, it is difficult to feel sure
that he was fully aware of the great difficulty of blindfolding com
pletely2 or of making quite sure that all auditory indications, or
indications from radiation of heat or from air currents are excluded.
Granting, however, that M. Boirac did succeed in avoiding indica
tions through the ordinary channels of sense, it is not at all clear
why he considers it proved that the effects produced were due to
direct action between the hand and the part of the body pointed at,
and not, on the contrary, due to mental suggestion. With this
same subject he appears to have been very successful in inducing
and removing the hypnotic state by mental suggestion alone—simply
willing that he should sleep without looking at him, and even when
separated from him by a closed door.3 This telepathic effect M.
'Vol. XI. p. 599.
2 In his chapter xiii. on " Un cas d'appareute transposition des sens," M.
Boirac describes experiments at a later date with one Ludovic S., which
suggest very much that his method of bandaging (the same that he used with
Gustave P.) left opportunities of seeing similar to those found by Mr. Hodgson
in attempting to reproduce the conditions of experiments with a supposed
clairvoyant subject "Dick." (See Journal S.P.R., Vol. I. p. 84).
aSee chapter x. The instances given are fairly convincing, but it is unfor
tunate that M. Boirac does not seem to be in the habit of keeping full notes
OCT., 1908. Reviews. 287
Boirac attributes to his "animal magnetism" operating between one
brain and the other. Why may not a similar action of one brain
or mind on another suggest to the subject that the effect associated
with, e.g. M. Boirac's right hand pointing at the knee is to be
expected ? The nature of the effect thus associated may of course have
been originally due to the percipient's imagination. Indeed, the want
of constancy in the effect of a pointing hand is in itself a sufficient
reason for doubting the theory of a direct physical action, and
seems to point to a subjective mental cause. For instance, in one
series of experiments with Gustave P. one effect was produced when
the right hand was used and another with the left hand. This
difference was not expected by the operator, and was not observed
with other subjects, nor did it occur with Gustave P. himself in
experiments repeated after an interval of eight months.
To sum up briefly, if we could feel quite sure that all means of
information or suggestion through the senses had been adequately
excluded, M. Boirac's experiments would afford valuable confirmation
of experiments by other observers (described in our Proceedings and
elsewhere) in the production, apparently by telepathic suggestion
alone, of "sommeil a distance," of local anaesthesia, and of com
munity of sensation. They would thus be very encouraging, but
they would not, in our opinion, add to our knowledge of the nature
of telepathy, and much less would they prove either the existence
of the " animal magnetism " or " psychic force " vaguely conceived
by M. Boirac, or its conductibility.
M. Boirac offers his hypothesis or discovery of the conductivity
of the human body to psychic force as likely to be of great
practical importance to psychical research by furnishing a method of
exact experimentation to those who are not themselves fortunate
enough to radiate the force. We follow his argument so far as
telekinesis is concerned, for there is no doubt that if by merely
holding the hand of a medium any investigator were able with his
other hand to raise a table off the ground without contact (which
seems to M. Boirac probable) telekinesis would soon be an accepted
fact. But it is less easy to follow him as regards thought trans-
of his experiments. We should like to have been told how many attempts
were made, what proportion (if any) failed, and whether Gustave P. was at
all liable to go spontaneously into the hypnotic state during the seances when
no attempt was being made to produce it. It is the more important to know
these things, because the time required to produce the effect by willing it
varied.
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
ference. Here he puts the agent, ignorant of the idea to be trans
mitted, between the investigator and the percipient. "Le sujet
n'aura besoin," he says, "pour comprendre ma pensee, que de la
recevoir a travers cet intermediate accoutume." But how, if the
investigator is incapable of generating the psychic force necessary
for thought transference, is his idea to get to the agent for trans
mission except through the ordinary channels of sense ? This there
is no attempt to explain, and it seems to us typical of the some
what loose and vague way of handling theories which pervades the
book.
E. M. S.
Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition. By HEREWAED CARRINGTON.
Pp. xxxix, 648.
The main object of this treatise is to show the value of "fasting
as a cure for disease." Appropriately enough, then, the writer
begins with a series of chapters devoted to a consideration of the
nature of disease. He promises "to show that what little the
medical profession is supposed to know of the nature of disease is
totally wrong, that their theories of the origin and nature of disease
are erroneous db initio, and that every new discovery made, which
they have considered an unmixed blessing and a sign of progress,
has in reality only led them further and further from the truth,
and away from an understanding of the real cause and cure of
disease."
It need not surprise us to find that he does not succeed in show
ing this, but it is astonishing that he should make no attempt to
do so. Mr. Carrington asks ue to cast aside the results of a century
of scientific research into the causation of disease and to accept
unreservedly the opinion of a few faddists that all disease is due
to the retention within the system of effete material derived from
an over-abundant food supply. "All disease," he says, "is in
reality a curing process—the various diseases, so called, being but
the various methods of elimination, from the system, of effete
material unduly retained therein, which should have been eliminated."
The process of elimination gives rise to the symptoms of each
disease, and these symptoms have been mistaken by the medical
profession for the disease itself. To suppress these symptoms is
"the whole aim, goal, and ambition of the medical fraternity."
This is, of course, mere nonsense. The medical fraternity know
as well as Mr. Carrington that the first indication for treatment
in any disease is to remove the cause, if possible. Where they
OCT., 1908. . Reviews. 289
differ from him is in regard to his opinion that all diseases are
due to the same cause or that they are all amenable to the same
treatment. In so far as his work is intended to appeal to the
medical profession, Mr. Carrington should surely have seen the
necessity of establishing on sound evidence this fundamental point.
Instead of attempting to do so he seems to think we are to be
satisfied by a few quotations in support of his contention, culled
from some more or less obscure writers of the so-called hygienic
school, but, "as Mr. MacFadden remarked," or "as Dr. Trail so
well expressed it," is hardly the form of argument we need to
convince us that the whole edifice of medical knowledge is based
upon false foundations.
Having pointed out that the symptoms of disease are merely
evidences of remedial efforts on the part of the organism, he asks,.
" What is it that lies behind these symptoms 1 What is the real
cause of disease ? " The reader who anticipates any satisfactory
reply to this question will be disappointed. He gets merely the
dictum of Mr. Carrington : " To this I answer—it is the poisonous
and effete matter which has collected within the organism." He
does not give a particle of evidence in support of this opinion.
I have searched carefully through the whole of this book, and I
have failed to find a single fact which can, even remotely, be held
to prove its truth.
Having convinced himself that all disease is due to the presence
of uneliminated food material, Mr. Carrington feels bound to believe
that fasting is the one and only therapeutic measure to be adopted
in every form of illness. He makes a curious distinction between
" natural " and " unnatural " means of assisting nature in its
remedial efforts, and in support of his contention that fasting is a
" natural " mode of dealing with disease, he says : " Turn to first
principles ; revert to Nature ; look to the animals—wild preferably—
who live nearer to nature than does man, and see what animals do
under such circumstances. In following them we cannot go far
wrong." Mr. Carrington is manifestly perturbed by the fact that
dogs, when ill, sometimes eat grass, but he considers this a perver
sion of instinct due to domestication. In any case, he says that
"dogs only eat grass when they are slightly sick—'out of sorts,'
as we say, and possibly need the salts and other elements the
grass contains, in order to restore them to health ! "
But it would appear that Mr. Carrington appeals to " first
principles" only when it suits his purpose to do so. In the chapter
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
dealing with the quantity of food necessary to maintain health, or,
as he prefers saying, to sustain life, he endeavours to show that
we all eat far too much and too often, and are all diseased in con
sequence. "It is true," he adds, "that many of the lower animals
feed more or less continually, with no other results than continued
normal growth ; but, because this is so, can it therefore be argued
that man can do likewise, with anything but disastrous results ?
Obviously not." An appeal to " first principles " fails him here, so,
from a consideration of certain physiological peculiarities wherein
man differs from the lower animals, he deduces the following law :
"The higher in the scale of evolution we proceed, the less the time that
is actually required for the nutrition of the body." As the greatest
mark of distinction between man and the lower animals is his
mental characteristics, this law may be expressed in the formula :
" The greater the mentality the less the need for food."
This is the principle to which we must appeal when we are
well, although the customs of the lower animals are guidance enough
when we are ill. It is a principle which may be very comforting
to vegetarians or hygienists, and the ordinary man will be willing
to concede to them any superiority of mentality they may claim,
so long as they allow him to have his dinner in peace.
Not content with advocating complete fasting in every case of
illness, Mr. Carrington would have us eat as little as possible when
we are well. His fear lest the vital energy may be wasted in the
digestion of unnecessary food is almost an obsession. The vital
energy so consumed might be conserved for the doing of the mental
and spiritual work of the world. But alas for poor human nature !
Surely there is an abundance of vital energy being expended
throughout the world in ways less worthy even than the digestion
of unnecessary food.
So dear to his heart is his theory of fasting and vitality that it
is with almost unconcealed regret that Mr. Carrington admits that
it is necessary to eat a little food sometimes. He confesses that
" throughout the course of life it is required. Only in diseased
conditions is food harmful." It is difficult to reconcile this confession
with what he says about the laws of health. They govern, he says,
the well and the sick equally. He declares categorically that "those
practices which are good for the well are equally good for the sick.
What is good for the well man is equally good for the sick man
and per contra, what is injurious and hurtful to the well man, must,
of necessity, be equally hurtful and injurious to the sick man."
OCT., 1908. Reviews. 291
The only conclusion that can be drawn from these contradictory
statements is that although Mr. Carrington is forced to admit that
food is necessary for the well man, it is not, in his opinion, good
for him.
The explanation of this persistent casting of obloquy upon the
food we eat is to be found in Mr. Carrington's theory of vitality.
In a long discussion of this world-old problem he maintains that we
do not derive either bodily heat or energy from food. The sole
function of food is the replacement of tissue that has been broken
down by the daily activities. Vital energy is a force per se, different
from and not inter-related with or transmutable into any of the
known physical forces. It is universal, all-pervading, cosmic, and
flows into the human frame through the nervous system during
sleep. The degree to which vitality will flow into us depends on
the condition of the body. The cleaner it is and the freer from
morbid accumulations, the more vital energy can it absorb. During
a fast the body becomes freed from all impurities; therefore, the
more we fast the more vital energy shall we have. Not only is
there a greater influx of energy due to the cleansing of the trans
mitting channels, but further, "the withdrawal of food places more
energy at the body's disposal, for the reason that all the energy
that was heretofore expended upon digestion, may now be utilized
for other purposes." It seems a pity that this pretty scheme of
things has ultimately to be assisted by such a vulgar proceeding as
eating; but it is found in practice that if fasting be continued too
long it leads to starvation, and starvation, it is admitted, ends in
death.
We naturally turn to the records of "fasting cures" for evidence
of the alleged increase of energy during the progress of a fast ; but
how difficult it is to find such evidence may be gathered from the
following quotations from the Chapter on Vitality. On page 296
Mr. Carrington says : " we find that when food is completely with
held, during a fast, the energy does actually increase, and continues
to do so ... the strength constantly and visibly increases." Yet
on page 261 he says: "it may be urged that this energy should
be more and more noticeable as the fast progressed ... for the
reason that more and more energy would thus be conserved, whereas
we know that this is not the case—weakness (at least apparent)
resulting in the great majority of cases, if the fast be persisted in,
and not increased strength and energy. The whole difficulty is just
here. The energies are increased as the fast progresses, gaining
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
strength daily because of the fact that no food is eaten calling for
digestion, but these energies are not noticed by us after the first
few hours of fasting for the reason that, if food is not supplied,
they are turned or directed into other channels, cleansing the body of
its diseased condition, e.g."
Strength which "visibly" increases but is "not noticed by us" is
surely a very elusive thing. Probably, however, Mr. Carrington
means that the increase of strength is not noticed by the victim of
the fast, but is quite visible to the onlooker. If so we might
expect to find some proofs of this increase of energy in the records
of fasting cures. But here again, as in the case of Mr. Carrington's
views on the causation of disease, the facts that might convince us
are sought for in vain.
With regard to these cases of fasting cures it is to be regretted
that the recorders despise or are ignorant of diagnostic methods ;
for although we are assured that the patients were very ill before
undergoing the fasts, and that most of them recovered after the
treatment, we are left almost completely in the dark as to what was
really the matter with them. Still, these records of "fasting cures"
are not without interest from several points of view ; but to imagine
that their publication will have any revolutionary influence on
scientific therapeutics is mere childishness.
Space will not permit of any detailed reference to Mr. Carrington's
views regarding the nature of vitality, sleep, death, and bodily heat.
As tentative hypotheses they may be legitimate enough in the
present state of knowledge ; but until some better verification of
them is forthcoming than is to be found in this book they seem
hardly worth discussing.
The course of the argument throughout Mr. Carrington's work is
a good illustration of the tendency of the layman to introduce a
priori methods into the discussion of scientific subjects. The whole
history of science lies behind him to warn him of the futility of so
doing. Yet he cheerfully dilates on scientific matters in the manner
of the writers of the pre-scientific era, regardless of all the principles
of empirical logic and ignoring or ignorant of the positive results
that have been obtained by the application of scientific method to
the solution of scientific problems.
T. W. MITCHELL, M.D.
OCT., 1908. The Slate-Writing of Mrs. Francis. 293
THE SLATE-WRITING OF MRS. FRANCIS.
BY COUNT PEEOVSKY-PETEOVO-SOLOVOVO.
READEES of the Journal and Proceedings will perhaps remember
that I repeatedly, when discussing the evidence for the " Physical
Phenomena of Spiritualism," have drawn attention to some state
ments relating to the " slate-writings " of Mrs. Francis, a San
Francisco professional medium of many years' standing apparently
(see for instance Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 182 ; Vol. IX., p. 12 ;
Proceedings, Part LV., p. 394). It seemed to me that these
statements, coming as they did from such persons as Dr. Elliott
Coues and especially1 Mr. W. Emmette Coleman, well known
as an exposer of fraudulent professional mediums, and describing
cases when the slate-pencil was seen to write—made it at least
prima facie probable that such a thing as " independent slate-
writing " did really exist as a " fact in nature "—to quote the
title of a paper by Dr. Coues on the subject in the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, February 27, 1892.
When writing in 1899 my Russian book on the Physical
Phenomena of Spiritualism (see Dr. Leaf's review in Proceedings,
Vol. XV., p. 416) I applied to Mr. Coleman for supplementary
information on the subject, and received from him a letter in
which, while admitting that Mrs. Francis did occasionally cheat,
he still maintained his belief in the genuineness of her slate-
writing, which he said was remarkable not only from the point
of view of how it was done but also of what was written, and
in proof of this he mentioned an instance which certainly seemed
to point to thought-transference from Dr. Coues. He also stated
that he had seen sometimes the pencil write the end of a word
—the slate being partly withdrawn from under the table ; and
that Dr. Coues had according to his statement seen it write a
whole sentence.
I now have to state that my repeated references to Mrs.
Francis's slate-writing have at last brought about a result in
consequence of my having again mentioned her by name in
Proceedings, Vol. LV., p. 394. Mr. Hereward Carrington has
]I have certainly not forgotten Prof. Shafeldt's letter in Journal, Vol. IX.,
p. 35.
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
sent me a personal letter, from which I now—with his per
mission—extract the following passage :
[Mrs. Francis] uses a cardboard slate, and on it places a small
piece of pencil. First, she holds the slate just under the table, for a
few moments, then above the table, and one can see the pencil
jumping about on the slate, and apparently finishing the writing.
It is very convincing, and Dr. Hyslop did not see how it was done
when he had his sitting; but subsequent observation and experiment
explained it.
When tho slate is under the table, she stretches out the first
finger, places it on the pencil, and scrawls a few words ou the slate.
This is all that appears. She then lets the pencil slide down to the
spot over the last few words. Then she takes the slate out from
under the table, and holds it so that part of her hand covers the
writing —the last few words. She also keeps moving the slate about,
as though to prevent the pencil from hopping off the slate on to
the floor. The pencil is dancing up and down, apparently just
finishing the writing. This is effected as follows : I have stated
that the slate is of cardboard. She has rubbed rosin over the first
finger, and she draws or rubs this finger over the under side of
the slate. The jarring causes the cardboard to vibrate, and the
small piece of slate-pencil is thereby caused to jump up and down,
and gives the exact appearance of finishing the writing. The
illusion is perfect, if well done. Dr. Hyslop and I practised it, and
became quite dexterous ! I hope this explanation suffices.
Thus—exit Mrs. Francis—and, I think, I can honestly add,
professional independent slate-writing in general.
ST. PETERSBURG, August, 1908.
[We have just received from an American Associate of the
Society, Mrs. Blodgett, an account, written at the time, of
some sittings with Mrs. Francis in 1901, in which similar
movements of the pencil occurred.
Mrs. Blodgett, who is a careful and experienced observer,
reports that while the writing was being done under the
table, she and her husband saw movements of the muscles of
Mrs. Francis's arm and shoulder, which convinced them that
she was doing the writing herself. Twice, as she took the
slate from under the table and moved it towards them, they
saw the pencil move a little way along the slate. It did not
appear to write a word, but only to make little marks at
the end of a word. '
Mrs. Blodgett obtained a slate and a bit of pencil from
Mrs. Francis to try by herself after she got home, and found
OCT., 1908. The Slate-Writing of Mrs. Francis. 295
that she could make the pencil move in a similar way by
pressure of her fingers underneath the slate. She sends us
the bit of pencil, which is about a third of an inch long,
pointing out that one side of it is flat and smooth, to facilitate
its slipping along the slate.—ED.]
COEBESPOKDENCE.
EXPERIMENTS WITH SAMBOR.
(To the Editor of the S.P.R. JOURNAL.)
ST. PETERSBURG, August, 1908.
DEAR SIR,—Mr. Baggally's " explanation " of Sambor's perform
ances as offered at the Society's meeting on June 29th (July Journal,
p. 273) is entirely wide of the mark. Of course it is not peculiar
to him. I heard it repeatedly both before and after my special
experiments with Sambor on his "chair-threading'"' (in 1900 and
1902), and can only assert most emphatically that my friends and
I had precisely in view this very source of error when we started
on our investigation, and kept it in mind throughout.
That the medium did not use this method at our special seances
(ten in the spring of 1900 and seven in the spring of 1902) there
is not the shadow of a doubt; and I beg to refer Mr. Baggally in
this connection to the following passages in my articles on Sambor
in Annales des Sciences Psychigues: 1900, No. 4, p. 249; No. 5,
pp. 267, 271, 274, 297 (text and footnote), which, I think, he
ought certainly to have consulted before making his statement.
I subjoin two extracts from my notes of the sittings (written out
the next day) :
"Seance at Schilkin's, February 1st [14th], 1900. Highly suc
cessful, because a chair was threaded on Kasnakoff's arm, who was
specially anxious to get this, and had said to me before that he
would believe only after a chair would be threaded on [his own
arm]. In this case the candle was undoubtedly put out by myself
after K ff and Siebert had taken up the medium's hands. . . ."
"Seance at my house (February 17th [March 2nd]). In the very
first part [of the seance] a chair was threaded on my arm which
was distinctly verified in the light. Loris-Melikoff was holding the
medium on the other side. The hands were held (grasped), were
not once released either on my side or on Loris's. Admitted by
all to have been quite remarkable and convincing. All necessary
conditions fulfilled (chain formed before the light was put out, etc.).
I was tightly squeezing Sambor's hand . . ."1
I will conclude with the following passage from an obituary notice
1 Cf. Annales, 1900, No. 4, pp. 249, 250.
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1908.
of Sambor I wrote for the Rebus (published in No. 28, 1902,
pp. 259-261):
"It is known that some 'investigators' who saw nothing or hardly
anything themselves explain the extraordinary 'threadings' of chairs
as if through the medium's arm, which constantly occurred with
S. F. [Sambor], by the supposition that in the case of such thread-
ings the ' chain ' was formed after the light had been put out ;
which circumstance gave the medium the opportunity, before entering
the 'chain,' of slipping an arm through the back of the chair.
"Special experiments made by me and other persons in 1900 and
last spring have made the inadequacy of such an explanation obvious.
The experiment under consideration succeeded in all seven times
with seven different persons,1 and in all these cases the light was
most undoubtedly put out after the medium had been included in
the chain.
"But it happened two or three times that the candle was put out
somewhat prematurely—well, S. F. Sambor himself asked to re-light
it, so as to leave no room for cavil, adding that there had been
cases when one of the ' controllers ' 2 would himself slip an arm
through the back of the chair after quickly putting out the candle."
Trusting that Mr. Baggally's "criticisms" will be more successful
next time, I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,
PE ROVSKY-PETROVO SOLOVOVO.
NOTICE.
WE are happy to be able to call the attention of members
of the Society to a new book by Mr. Frank Podmore bearing
the title, The Naturalisation of the Supernatural, which has
just been issued by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons [7/6 net].
It contains 374 pages, and is a remarkably concise com
pendium of matters pertaining to psychical research. It will
shortly be reviewed in the Proceedings.
WANTED—"D. D. HOME'S LIFE AND MISSION."
TEN shillings is offered for a copy, in good condition, of
D. D. Home: his Life and Mission, by Madame Dunglas Home
(Kegan Paul, Trench, Triibner & Co., London, 1888). Any
person having such a copy for sale is requested to com
municate with the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square, London, W.
1 Only one of these seven cases being vitiated by the circumstance mentioned
in Proceedings, Part LV., pp. 403, 404.
2 At other circles, of a promiscuous or in general somewhat doubtful character,
of course !
No. CCLIIL—VOL. XIII. NOVEMBER, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Reminiscent Crystal-Visions, 298
A Cure by Suggestion, 302
Hallucinations experienced in connection with Dying Persons, - - 308
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, DECEMBER itfh, 1908, at 4 p.m.
SHORT PAPERS DISCUSSING THE QUESTION OF
" Cross-Correspondences "
WILL BE READ BY
MR. PODMORE, MR. G. LOWES DICKINSON
&
MR. F. C. CONSTABLE,
AND OTHERS WILL SPEAK.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
REMINISCENT CRYSTAL-VISIONS.
THE appended report comes to us through an Associate of the
Society, Mr. F. C. Constable, of Wick Court, near Bristol,
from the Eev. H. E., whose name was given to us in
confidence.
The interest of these visions lies in their origin having been
traced through hypnotism. By this means it was found that
they all represented subliminal memories of places or objects
previously seen, and the special association of ideas which
revived the recollection in each case was discovered by the
same means. It seems not unlikely that many other crystal-
visions, as well as much automatic script, could be similarly
explained if the seer or writer could be hypnotised and
cross-examined.
Mr. H. E. writes :—
No. 1.
October 5tk, 1908.
E. E. P. is a good crystal-gazer and an equally good hypnotic
subject. He is a country postman, about 30 years of age, and above
the average intelligence of persons of his class.
On October 4, 1908, at about 8 p.m., he took the crystal off
the table, and immediately said—"I see such a beautiful room."
He then described the furniture, pictures—"an oil painting of a
lady"—the fireplace, and particularly the clock on the mantelpiece—
"I have never seen such a large one,—it's made of different kinds
of marble." " Can you see the door ? " I asked. " No ; I'm standing
in the doorway." The picture then faded in the usual way.
I questioned E. E. P. closely as to where the room was,—where
he had seen it. He assured me he had never seen such a room
in his life, and it was such a curious clock he was sure he would
remember it if he had. I then hypnotised him. He goes into a
most profound sleep at word of command,—i.e. instantly. "Where
have you seen the room and the big clock you just saw in the
crystal?" I asked. He replied at once, "At . When I went
to London, my cousin was there, and showed it to me. The clock
cost hundreds of pounds." I then woke E. E. P. and told him he
Nov., 1908. Reminiscent Crystal- Visions. 299
had seen this room and clock, and he must try and remember
where. I am quite sure he honestly tried, for I know the man so
well, but he failed. I then told him what he had said when
entranced. He said at once, " Yes, that's quite right, I remember
now. I went to London about five years ago, and my cousin, who
was in a situation at this house, showed me the drawing-room. I
stood at the door and looked in, and I saw the clock, which was
very large and valuable. I can't remember much about the furniture
now."
Here then was a case of sub-conscious memory, but what could
have induced the picture of this seemingly unimportant incident to
revive suddenly in the crystal 1 E. E. P. seemed to think he had
never thought of the room again from the day he saw it, for it did
not interest him.
The explanation seems to me of interest, as it shows what
extremely minute things may act as suggestions to revive a memory.
In the afternoon of the same day (Oct. 4) I had been for a walk
with E. E. P. to look at a certain old church at C C . He
had been struck by the rather handsome hanging brass candle-
holders. Under each candle was a glass sconce, and under this a
knot of cut glass about the size of a nut. E. E. P. stood on one
of the seats, and took hold of one of these knobs, and partly un
screwed the brass screw that ran through it. When, in the evening,
we had failed to find what had made him see the drawing-room in
the crystal, I entranced him a second time, and said, " What made
you see this place in the crystal?" He hesitated for a long time,
and then he said : " The gas thing in the middle of the drawing-
room was all made of glass,—it was beautiful. The little knobs on
the candles in the church to-day were made like it, and I suppose
that made me think of the place again."
Hence the cut-glass knobs on the apparatus for lighting in the
church had suggested the cut-glass chandelier he had seen in the
drawing-room, and the rest of the room followed naturally.
I suppose we may conclude that the memory of this drawing-
room revived in E. E. P.'s sub-consciousness at the moment he was
fingering the cut-glass knobs in the church ? It must also have
persisted in his sub-conscious memory at least four hours, as that
was about the space of time between being in the church and
seeing the picture in the crystal.
H. E.
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch. Nov., 1908.
No. 2.
E. E. P. as before.
Oct. 11, 1908. Very tired, and no pictures came for some time.
Then a piece of material appeared. It was extremely distinct, so
that the rows in the weaving could be counted. Running his finger
up the glass, E. E. P. counted up to 29.
"Two rows near the middle seem run together," he said.
"Is it a flaw in the weaving?" I asked. "Yes, the two rows are
only one afterwards," he replied.
The material is a strip of merino, woven as a sample by the young
woman to whom E. E. P. is engaged. The girl works in a mill in
the north of England. Recently E. E. P. was staying with her
parents, and the piece of stuff was given him to use as a muffler.
He promised to bring it me that I might count the rows.
Oct. 12. The piece of material has been brought to me by E. E. P.
It contains 136 ribs in the width, and no flaw. It is about 46 inches
long and 8 or 9 wide.
E. E. P. says to-day, "I don't think that was what I saw as the
ribs are so fine." I shall entrance him and see if I can find anything
further.
History of the piece of material seen.
On Oct. 15th at 8 p.m. I hypnotised E. E. P. and asked what
the material was he saw on the llth.
"It is a piece of knitting E. M. was doing at the S. Evening
School." This would have been about seven years ago.
After waking E. E. P., I told him what he had said, but he
could remember nothing whatever about the matter. He seemed
to think it was perhaps a joke with some of the girls in the school.
"If so," he said, "F. B. might remember."
I saw F. B. yesterday (Oct. 19th) and he remembered the incident
clearly. The question I asked him was, "When you went to the
Evening School with E. E. P. did you ever have a joke with E. M. ?"
"E. E. P. took E. M.'s knitting up off the desk when she was
not looking and I tried to hide it by sitting on it, and ran one of
the needles into myself—that's why I remember it." Asked as to
colour he could not remember. Asked as to size, he thinks it was
about 12 or 15 inches long, and about 8 wide. He knows for certain
it was intended for a scarf.
The " link " for the memory seems this :—E. E. P. had the scarf
in his pocket given him by the girl to whom he is engaged. (We
both thought this is what he saw in the crystal.) On Saturday he
Nov., 1908. Reminiscent Crystal- Visions. 301
picked some green walnuts, put them in his pocket on top of the
silk scarf. They stained large dark patches all over it, and spoilt
it. Having his mind rather full of this scarf, it called up the other
that he had seen the girl knitting 7 years before.
You will see this is not nearly such a good case as No. 1.
No. 3.
Oct. 15, 1908. E. E. P. with crystal. [This is taken down as
he spoke.] "A ship with two white funnels—lots of people on the
ship—I can see two talking to the captain,—it's going to the right—I
can't see faces [in reply to question] but I can see their clothes quite
plain—It's a pleasure steamer— ["If you can see so much, you ought
to be able to see the name," I said.] Yes, it's the Camberwell or
Camperwell—I can't see if its a B. or a P.—I can see the gold
buttons on the captain's coat."—There was a great deal more very
minute description.
Asked if he knew the steamer, he said he might have been on it,
as he had been on several pleasure steamers at different times. He
did not know the names of any, as he never noticed names that he
knew of. I tried him several times, but he protested he could not
remember.
I then hypnotised E. E. P.
" What was the steamer you just saw in the crystal 1 "
"The one I went in from Cardiff to Ilfracombe two years ago—it
was the Camberwell."
"What made you think of it?"
"When I was delivering letters this morning, one had a post
mark from Ilfracombe and I thought of the trip."
I then awoke E. E. P. and asked him if he had noticed the
post-mark on any letter that morning. He then remembered the
Ilfracombe one, at once. He added : " I did think about a steamer
this morning, because I thought of the trip I went from Cardiff to
Ilfracombe,—but it only just passed through my mind, and that's
why I forgot it."
Here the memory of the fact was in the conscious memory for a
moment or two in the early part of the day. Hence this experiment
is not as interesting as No. 1, where the memory of the fact was
only in the sub-conscious memory.
H. E.
Oct. 20, 1908.
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
A CURE BY SUGGESTION.
THE following case is contributed by a Member of the Society,
Mr. A. Warndorfer, who reported it verbally to Miss Johnson
on January I7.th, 1908, and then discussed it with her.
He afterwards wrote to her as follows :
ELISABETHSTRASSE 23, BADEN, NEAR VIENNA.
February 7th, 1908.
... I send a short notice about the cured nail. Miss Byatt
wrote only the other day how delighted she was to have a decent
looking thumb again. I spoke to a doctor about it; he said that
"naturally the nerves were stimulated by the massage and of
course made the nail grow properly again ; " which does not
sound convincing, especially because [there] was no massage.
A. WARNDORFER.
The account enclosed was as follows :
I have tried for several years to treat occasional ills amongst
my family and friends by " mesmeric " or " magnetic passes," some
times with verbal suggestions, sometimes without. About two
months ago, Miss Byatt, a young lady staying with us, complained
about pains in her thumb, the first digit of which had been caught
and crushed in the breach of an air-gun more than four years ago ;
she said [she had suffered] from these pains frequently since the
accident. The nail had to be partly removed at the time and
had grown in a rather crippled manner, the side being strongly
fluted and the back of the nail quite wavy ; the part where the
" moon " usually is had, since the accident, never been hard, but
was more like a thick transparent skin than a nail ; it turned
blue and felt sore when the hand was put into cold water. I
quickly succeeded in removing the pain and then determined to
try to "cure" the thumb, i.e. make the nail grow properly. To
my great pleasure the nail is now almost normal; the upper half
still shows the old defects, but what grew since about six weeks
is quite hard and smooth ; at the edge there is still a fluted part,
but much less than formerly. I am quite willing to give further
detailed information.
Nov., 1908. A Cure by Suggestion. 303
Miss Johnson then asked for answers to the following
questions :
(1) When did the accident take place and what (exactly)
happened ?
(2) What measures were then taken to cure the thumb
and what followed ?
(3) When did Mr. Warndorfer begin to operate and what
was the exact condition of the thumb when he began ?
(4) What process did he use ; and how soon (a) was the
pain removed ; (&) did the nail grow again ?
(5) What was the exact condition of the nail at the time
of writing ?
(6) A propos of the doctor's suggestion that the results
were due to massage—were the " passes " made with contact
or not ?
A propos of the perhaps more rational supposition that the
cure took place in the ordinary course of nature, and was
not really assisted by the treatment—
(7) Did the condition remain stationary for a long time
(and if so, for how long) and then suddenly improve under
Mr. Warndorfer's treatment, or had it been gradually improving ?
(8) Had there been any perceptible change in Miss Byatt's
general health,—any improvement in which would help all
healing processes,—since she went to Austria ; and how soon
after she went did Mr. Warndorfer's treatment begin ?
Detailed statements on all these points were asked for
from both Mr. Warndorfer and Miss Byatt.
Mr. Warndorfer replied as follows :
March 13th, 1908.
(1) The accident happened about four and a half years ago ; the
thumb was caught in the breach of an air-gun and was held there
for some time, as the gun could not be opened.
(2) I think surgical treatment was necessary and part of the
injured nail taken off.
(3) I began to operate, I think, about the middle of November,
1907 ; the nail was sore at the time and I made passes, to take
the pain away ; I did not at first consider the possibility that the
growth of the nail could be altered. I was told that at irregular
intervals the nail caused pain and that it felt sore, always, when
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
put into cold water. The nail looked crippled as indicated in the
sketch ; it was very fluted at the side, extending to about one third
of the breadth of the nail, the rills being deep and hard. The
lower portion of the nail, where the "moon" usually is, was soft,
yielding to light pressure and very tender to the touch, pressure
causing pain and making the use of the thumb almost impossible
for some kinds of work ; the sight of the thumb as a whole, was
unpleasant.
(4) To alleviate the pain I made passes; I may have touched the
thumb, but only inadvertently ; the pain disappeared after the first
treatment, which lasted for about a quarter of an hour; I employed
verbal suggestion too. Afterwards, when trying to influence the
growth of the nail, I employed the mixed system of "magnetic
passes" and verbal suggestion that is, I think, adopted by most
men who use psycho-therapeutic methods. As I could, without verbal
suggestion, cause stiffness of the thumb, coldness of the hand, etc.,
I used those phenomena, to strengthen the suggestion that my treat
ment would be successful. I never used massage proper but some
few times made slightly touching passes (efflemant la peaw) ; at the
end of each treatment I used to make a couple of rubbing passes
from hand to shoulder, to remove all feeling of heaviness in the limb ;
sometimes I used a pencil-like piece of magnetised steel (as practised
in the early Mesmerist schools and by a doctor friend of mine) ;
at first it caused a strong sensation in the nail, but after a while
it did not and then I gave it up. I treated her almost daily ; when
I was away from home for a couple of days, I made her put her
finger in the morning into a glass with "magnetised water;" I found
this process useful for different reasons.
(5) I cannot say, at what time the improvement began, as such
could only be visible on the growing nail ; now, or rather when I
saw the nail for the last time, about five weeks ago, there was
hardly any disfigurement to be seen, except a few flutings (rills)
at the side ; the nail was quite hard and caused no pain or
Nov., 1908. A Cure by Suggestion. 305
unpleasant sensation when put into cold water, was, in fact, normal
and healthy, smooth and shining.
(6) The contact was very slight. I know what massage is, having
[gone through] a course of instruction in it ; what I did has nothing
to do with massage.
(7) Of course, every cure [may] be attributed to ordinary causes ;
the long period of the abnormal condition, four and a half years,
would however make it a very unlikely coincidence, and I think it
would hardly be fair to attribute the cure to coincidence, all the
more as the condition of the nail was stationary for several years
and began to improve with the treatment.
(8) A general improvement in health went with it, and I hope it
will not be considered too audacious an assumption if I reverse your
suggestion. You think that the improvement of the nail went with
an improvement in health, caused by change of climate, while I
venture to say that the improvement in the nail and the improve
ment in health were caused by my treatment. Miss Byatt came
over [at the] end of August, I think, and joined us about the
middle of September; the improvement in health, which made
itself felt by an increase in weight and by the absence of regular
headaches, can be traced (especially the latter) to the beginning of
the treatment; the climate in autumn and winter is not such as to
cause any improvement in general health ; in fact, she caught a
severe cold, or rather bronchitis, which kept her indoors for some
time. I should like to mention that I did not undertake the
treatment on my own responsibility ; I never do. I consulted an
M.D., a friend of mine, who agreed to my method and who saw
the result; he is at present in England, I think, but I do not know
his address. I dare say he will be back here in spring, and I can
then add his testimony.
On April 29th, 1908, Mr. Wiirndorfer wrote again:
Enclosed you find Miss Byatt's report about the treatment and
cure of her thumb. There appears to be a discrepancy between my
statements and hers about [the improvement in her state of health] after
coming over. I still do not think that the improvement [accounts]
for the thumb's cure, as the improvement began and continued while
her health was not good, or at any rate not better than usual. I
have within the last week cured a bruise on her wrist in a similar
manner.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
Miss Byatt wrote as follows :
April 27th, 1908.
(1) In July, 1903, I injured my right thumb by pinching it
between the barrel and steel rod of an air-gun. It was pressed
sideways, and was cut rather deeply on the outside just above the
joint and inside just at the bottom of the nail. It bled profusely,
and my wrist had to be bound up to stop it, as the nearest doctor,
who was wired for, lived six miles away, and we had to wait about
three hours before he came.
(2) When he came he syringed it well with disinfectant, as some
rust from the gun had got in. The thumb was very swollen and
painful for some days, and my arm was kept in a sling. A small
abscess formed under the root of the nail, which had to be scraped
away in order to dress it.
(3) In course of time the nail came off, and when the new one
formed it came with an ugly seam right down it at the side where
it had been injured. An edge of the seam turned into the thumb,
and was always rather painful when pressed, and the " half moon "
was quite soft. Also, the outside of the thumb has a lumpy scar,
which was sensitive when pressed and quite painful if knocked.
Within the last two years, whenever the nail was cut, the skin
round the top of the thumb got red and sore as if it had a touch
of eczema. As far as I can remember and have noticed, there has
been little perceptible improvement in the condition of the whole
thumb during the four and a-half years since it was hurt, until Mr.
Warndorfer started treating it on Dec. 7th last, about two weeks
after I came here.
(4) The treatment lasted from 10 to 15 minutes almost every
evening for six weeks. He made me sit easily on a chair with all
muscles relaxed, and he sitting on another chair opposite me, holding
my hands with his thumbs pressed against mine, obliged me to look
straight into his eyes for perhaps two minutes, then getting up closed
my eyes while he stood in front of me and made passes before my
face, as far as I knew, for at this stage I was fairly drowsy, then
stroked my arms firmly down to my fingers, pressed his thumbs
gently in the hollows above collar bones, causing me involuntarily
to take long deep breaths giving the most soothing effect, made
more passes down the arms and the length of the body to the feet.
After that I moved my chair round, and, resting my arm on the
table, he made passes close above my thumb with all his fingers
together, sometimes using a small steel bar, which had been [mag
Nov., 1908. A Cure by Suggestion. 307
netised]. Then I held the thumb up, and, without touching it, he
put his fingers round it and made a drawing movement as if he
were pulling something out. Often during this treatment, and when
the steel was continually passed close to the seam on the nail, I had
a tickling sensation as if something inside the thumb were moving.
During the last week or so I believe he also breathed on the nail,
but I am rather vague as to the whole treatment, as it made me
so sleepy.
(5) After perhaps two weeks there was an improvement in the
condition of the nail ; it was much less painful when pressed, the
" half moon " was harder, and the whole thumb less sensitive, and
the skin at the top softer. It continued to improve rather quickly,
and at the present time its condition is quite normal, except for
the scar in the flesh on the outside of the thumb and the seam up
the nail, though the latter is much less noticeable than formerly, and,
consequently, not such an eyesore as it always was to me before.
(6) The passes on the thumb were always made, I believe, without
contact, and (7) the condition had been stationary before the treatment,
which ceased towards the end of January, when we went away to
Switzerland for eight weeks.
(8) I certainly think my general health has improved since I came to
Austria at the end of last September. During the first five weeks I
was in Baden I went up 5 kilo, over 10 English pounds in weight,
and I got fatter. I have felt very well since I have been here, and
only early in January, when the weather was rather severe, got a
cold, and was kept in the house for nearly a fortnight. During that
time Mr. Warndorfer treated me several times for the cold, and did
me much good.
Though my health may have improved, it hardly seems possible
that it could account in that short time for such a sudden improve
ment in the thumb nail, and in the four years before I left England
I had lived a regular healthy country life.
CONSTANCE E. BYATT.
Mr. Warndorfer wrote that he would try to get a statement
about the cure of the nail from the doctor referred to in his
account of March 13th, 1908; but that this doctor, who was
a firm believer in the efficacy of suggestion and used it largely
in his practice, had only seen the case a few times. This
being so, we have not pressed for his statement, which has not
yet reached us.
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
Mr. Warndorfer regretted that it had not occurred to him
at the beginning to photograph the nail in its crippled state,
and at intervals during the treatment, so as to provide tangible
evidence of the result. We should like to recommend any of
our readers who may have an opportunity of trying similar
experiments in the suggestive treatment of simple ailments to
use photography in any cases that admit of it.
HALLUCINATIONS EXPERIENCED IN CONNECTION
WITH DYING PERSONS.
(1)
THIS case was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Dr. Burgess, an Associate
of the American Branch of the Society. It took place in 1902
and was recorded in August of that year. The percipient, sitting
at the bedside of his dying wife, had a vision of several figures,
including the " double " of his wife. The vision persisted for
five hours and vanished at the moment of her death. It was
not seen by any of the other persons who were in the room.
The doctor, who was present, testifies that the percipient was
in a perfectly normal state before and after and that there
were features in the vision that would not have been likely
to occur to him. The interest of the case is psychological,
its most marked peculiarity the prolonged persistence of the
hallucination.
373 GEARY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO,
August 28, 1902.
DEAR DR. HODGSON,—With the kind permission of my friend
Dr. Renz I send you a verbatim copy of the papers relating to
this very interesting case, and you are to feel at liberty to make
whatever use of it you may think advisable.
Let me add that, while I have not asked for Mr. G.'s identity,
I know Dr. Renz well as a valued coadjutor on the staff of the
California Woman's Hospital.
The Doctor is an expert in diseases of the mind and nervous
system and is eminently qualified in every way to form a just
estimate of the features of this case. You will correctly infer that
none except Mr. G. saw the appearances described.
Very truly yours,
0. 0. BURGESS.
Nov., 1908. Hallucinations. 309
Mr. G.'s statement is as follows :
Whether I was labouring under a mental delusion or whether I
was gifted with clairvoyant sight during the last five hours
immediately preceding the death of my wife is, at the present
time, a mooted question with me, and one that I fear will never
be satisfactorily determined by me.
Before telling the story, and for the benefit of any who may
read this paper, I will state that I am not addicted to the use of
alcoholic liquors, cocaine, or morphine, being almost strictly tem
perate ; nor am I nervous or imaginative, but considered cold, calm
and deliberate, and a disbeliever in what is known as materialization,
spiritualism, or the existence of spiritual bodies visible to mortal
eyes, and hostile to all such theories.
As all my friends know, my wife died at 11.45 p.m. on Friday,
May 23, 1902; and, after four o'clock upon the afternoon of that
day, I became convinced that her death was merely a question of
moments.
Gathered around the bedside awaiting her demise were some of
my most intimate friends, the physician in attendance, and two
trained nurses. I was seated at the bedside holding my wife's
right hand. Our friends were grouped around the room, some sitting,
some standing, not a word was spoken, each watching intently the
faint breathing, the cessation of which would indicate that the soul
had left the body. Two hours passed and still no change. The
servant announced dinner. No one was inclined to partake of the
refreshments offered. At half-past six o'clock I urged our friends,
the physician and nurses, to take dinner, as their vigil might lengthen
out too long for them to abstain from food. All but two left the
room in obedience to my request.
Fifteen minutes later, or at 6.45 (the reason why I am so positive
as to the time is because a clock was upon the bureau in plain
sight), I happened to look towards the door, when I saw floating
through the doorway three separate and distinct clouds in strata.
Each cloud appeared to be about four feet in length, from six to
eight inches in width, the lower one about two feet from the ground,
the others at intervals of about six inches.
My first thought was that some of our friends (and I must ask
their pardon for the thought) were standing outside the bedroom
smoking, and that the smoke from their cigars was being wafted
into the room. With this idea, I started up to rebuke them, when,
lo ! I discovered there was no one standing by the door, no one
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
in the hallway, no one in the adjoining rooms. Overcome with
astonishment I watched the clouds; and slowly, but surely, these
clouds approached the bed until they completely enveloped it.
Then, gazing through the mist, I beheld, standing at the head of
my dying wife, a woman's figure about three feet in height, trans
parent, yet like a sheen of brightest gold; a figure so glorious in
its appearance that no words can be used fitly to describe it. She
was dressed in the Grecian costume, with long, loose and flowing
sleeves—upon her head a brilliant crown. In all its splendour and
beauty the figure remained motionless with hands uplifted over my
wife, seeming to express a welcome with a quiet, glad countenance,
with a dignity of calmness and peace. Two figures in white knelt
by my wife's side, apparently leaning towards her ; other figures
hovered about the bed, more or less distinct.
Above my wife, and connected with a cord proceeding from her
forehead, over the left eye, there floated in a horizontal position a
nude, white figure, apparently her astral body. At times the sus
pended figure would lie perfectly quiet, at other times it would
shrink in size until it was no larger than perhaps eighteen inches,
but always was the figure perfect and distinct : a perfect head, a
perfect body, perfect arms and perfect legs. When the astral body
diminished in size, it struggled violently, threw out its arms and
legs in an apparent effort to escape. It would struggle until it seemed
to exhaust itself, then become calm, increase in size, only to repeat
the same performance again and again.
This vision, or whatever it may be called, I saw continuously
during the five hours preceding the death of my wife. Interruptions,
as speaking to my friends, closing my eyes, turning away my head,
failed to destroy the illusion, for whenever I looked towards that
deathbed the spiritual vision was there. All through those five hours
I felt a strange feeling of oppression and weight upon my head and
limbs ; my eyes were heavy as if with sleep, and during this period
the sensations were so peculiar and the visions so continuous and
vivid that I believed I was insane, and from time to time would
say to the physician in charge: "Doctor, I am going insane."
At last the fatal moment arrived ; with a gasp, the astral figure
struggling, my wife ceased to breathe ; she apparently was dead :
however a few seconds later she breathed again, twice, and then
all was still. With her last breath and last gasp, as the soul left
the body, the cord was severed suddenly and the astral figure
vanished. The clouds and the spirit forms disappeared instantly,
and, strange to say, all the oppression that weighed upon me was
gone ; I was myself, cool, calm and deliberate, able to direct, from
the moment of death, the disposition of the body, its preparation
for a final resting place.
I leave my readers to determine whether I was labouring under
a mental delusion caused by anxiety, sorrow and fatigue, or if a
glimpse of a spirit world of beauty, happiness, calmness and peace
was granted to my mortal eyes. ~
NOV., 1908. Hallucinations. 311
Appended are comments by Dr. Eenz, the physician in
attendance :
To the annexed statement I would like to add a few words. I
know the gentleman who gives such a vivid and realistic description
of his experience at the deathbed of his wife personally long enough
to exclude every possible tendency to any form of chronic mental
alienation. By his friends and associates he is considered an ex
tremely calm, level-headed and strong-willed business man. Never
at any time have illusions or hallucinations—never any form of
delusions—been observed during his life, which has been full of
excitements and changes in business as well as in family relations.
From my own observations I can most positively put aside a tem
porary acute state of hallucinatory insanity during the time of the
vision mentioned above. The reasons are as follows : I had been
with Mr. G. during the entire illness of his wife ; we spent a good
many days and nights together, and I had the opportunity of making
a study of his thoughts and feelings. I had occasion to know that
Mr. G. never read anything in the occult line ; that everything
that was not a proven fact was incompatible with his positive
mind,—so much so that during his vision (of which I did not
know at the time) he asked me frequently if I thought he was
going to become insane.
Exactly one week previous to his wife's death, at a time when
she was so low that I was expecting the end at any moment, Mr. G.
did not experience any abnormal sensation of any kind. At that
time Mr. G. did not lose hope as to her rallying, although from a
medical standpoint Mrs. G. was apparently in extremis.
As soon as Mrs. G. was dead, Mr. G., who for six hours was
sitting, almost motionless next to her, rose and gave all his orders
in such a calm and business-like way that it surprised all who were
present. If he had laboured under a hallucination his mind would
not have become clear as suddenly as it did. It is now two and
one-half weeks since the death and the vision. Mr. G. is absolutely
normal physically as well as mentally. He has attended to his
business as usual and, besides, fulfilled many extraordinary duties.
C. EENZ.
(2)
This is another instance of an apparition seen by a person
in the company of a dying woman, though the form
seen is more shadowy than in the previous case. It occurred
on Nov. 1st, 1905, and was recorded on Nov. 23rd of the
same year. The percipient is a sister of a member of the
Society who is known to Miss Johnson.
It seems to have been a fully externalised hallucination
and not apparently due to any emotional or morbid mental
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1908.
or physical condition on the part of Miss V. Z., who said
that she had seen patients die before and took it entirely
as part of her work. She took no special interest in this
patient. She writes :
November 23rd, 1905.
On Nov. 1st while acting as Nurse-Probationer at a Cottage
Hospital I had an interesting experience.
Mrs. S., a patient suffering from cancer and admitted to the
Hospital about five months previously, was on the morning of
Nov. 1st apparently dying ; she had been unconscious for about
five hours and was breathing at the rate of three to the minute.
Her pulse was taken at 12.0 by another nurse and I was then
left alone in the ward with instructions to notify any change in
her condition and prevent the flies from settling on her. I was
seated by the bedside and reading a magazine article, from time to
time glancing at the patient. About five minutes past twelve (there
was no clock in the ward) as I looked up I saw on the opposite
side of the bed a figure; I say a figure, because it was the shape
of a person, although no features were distinguishable and the whole
appearance seemed to be a thick mist or fog with no sharp outlines
but a blurred edge. The height was about my own, 5' 7". There
was a window on either side of the bed, and a screen with a wooden
frame covered in holland was behind the figure. I noticed the
edges of the screen were visible through the misty shape. I felt
no sense of fear at the sight of the figure, though I was not inclined
to address it. I put down my book and watched it for some time,
so far as I could judge between ten and fifteen minutes, then another
nurse entered the ward and the figure faded or melted away. The
pulse in the neck of the patient was still beating, but she was not
then breathing, although when I first saw the figure she was.
There was a good light, the day being bright ; the windows reached
almost to the ceiling and the time was mid-day. The other patients
had dressed and left the ward as Mrs. S.'s groaning disturbed
them. A person standing on the flower-bed outside and looking in
would only have thrown a shadow of the upper part of the shoulders,
unless very tall, whereas the figure I saw was visible to where the
knees should have been and then the outline of the bed cut off
the view. It had not the appearance of a shadow and was quite
distinct from and some distance from the screen. I did not mention
this experience to any one at the hospital.
. V. Z.
Her sister adds :
I understand the figure stood near the head of the bed, by the
shoulders of the patient.
E. Z.
No. CCLIV.—VOL. XIII. DECEMBER, 1908.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAfiK
New Members and Associates, - - 314
Meeting of the Council, - - - 315
Private Meeting for Members and
Associates, 316
PAGE
Address to tlie Dublin Section of the
a.P.K. By Sir Oliver Lodge, - - 318
Obituary, ...... 324
Cases, 327
Correspondence, 330
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, DECEMBER i^th, 1908, at 4 p.m.
WHEN SHORT PAPERS DISCUSSING THE QUESTION OF
" Cross-Correspondences "
BY
MR. PODMORE, MR. G. LOWES DICKINSON
Sf
MR. F. C. CONSTABLE,
WILL BE READ.
A DISCUSSION WILL FOLLOW.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DKO., 1908.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Behrens, Captain Olive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorkshire.
Francis, Mrs. Francis, Palace House, Beaulieu, Hants.
Grimshaw, Mrs., 109 Cromwell Road, London, S.W.
Hall, Joseph Platt, M.I.E.E., Gorse Bank, Werneth, Oldharo.
Izod, Charles Henry, 84 Queen Victoria Street, London, E.G.
Oliver, Mrs., 26 Brunswick Terrace, Brighton.
Shewan, Robert Gordon, Hongkong, China.
Taylor, Harold Dennis, Stancliffe, The Mount, York.
Warren, R. N., 'The Brambles, Langley Avenue, Surbiton.
Wigg, Edward Neale, 29 Ludgate Hill, London, E.G.
BILLE, TORBEN DE, 24 Pont Street, London, S.W.
BOYS, MAJOR R. H. H., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing Cross,
London, S.W.
BKOWN, MRS. ROBERT, Priestgate House, Barton-on-Humber, Hull.
BROWNRIGG, LADY, 11 Grand Parade, Portsmouth.
CADELL, MRS. LEWIS, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
CHANDLER, THE RIGHT REV. ARTHUR, Bishop of Bloemfontein,
Bloemfontein, S. Africa.
COOKE, Miss MABEL, Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
CRANE, THE REV. W. M., Ph.D., Richmond, Berkshire County, U.S.A.
DANZAS, MLLE. JULIA, 26 Moika, St. Petersburg, Russia.
D'ARCY, THE REV. G. J. A., St. Patrick's, Frank Street, Birmingham.
ELLIOT, MRS., 16 Holland Street, London, W.
FOURNIEII oALBE, E.E., B.Sc., M.R.I.A., 11 Sunbury Gardens,
Rathgar, Dublin.
GRIFFITH, Miss MARY F., 41 Leinster Square, London, W.
GRIPPER, MRS. HAROLD, Burrell Mead, West Wickham, Kent.
HERBERT-SMITH, Miss EVELYN E., Raymead, Park Road, Watford.
HOPPIN, J. C., 304 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
INGALLS, MRS. MARY A., Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
IRELAND, W. W., M.D., Victoria Terrace, Musselburgh, N.B.
LANE, Miss E. A., 131 East 21st Street, New York City, U.S.A.
LIBRARIAN, The Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
D«o., 1908. New Members and Associates. 315
LUDWIG, DE. ALFRED, Prague.
LUKE, JAMES, Box No. 183, G.P.O., Calcutta, India.
LTJMSDEN, Miss K. M., 17 Richmondhill Place, Aberdeen.
MASON, J. T., 1572 Eace Street, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
MAVROGORDATO, JOHN N., 52 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
MULLER, FRAULEIN A., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
O'REILLY, Miss B., 13 Bedford Street, Strand, London, W.C.
PHILLIPS, JOHN, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa., U.S.A.
RICKETTS, CAPTAIN C. R., 71 Cold Harbour Road, Westbury Park,
Bristol.
SOLADE-SOLOMON, JOHN E, A.L.A., M.F.L.S., Public Works Depart
ment, Warri, Southern Nigeria.
STATKOWSKI, Miss TAMARA, 9 Queen's Square, London, W.C.
STAWKLL, Miss F. M., 44 Westbourne Park Villas, London, W.
STEWART, Miss GERTRUDE, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
STKWART, HERBERT L., Queen's College, Belfast.
STRACHEY, J. B., Trinity College, Cambridge.
SURYA RAN, R. W. M., Rajah of Pithapuram, Pithapuram, Godavari
District, Madras Presidency, India.
THOMPSON, EDWIN, 1 Croxteth Grove, Liverpool.
TYRRELL, G. N., 4a. Napoles 55, Mexico Git}, Mexico.
WHITMORE, MRS., 28 Milner Street, Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 93rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, November 2nd, 1908; the
President, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, in the chair. There were
also present Professor W. F. Barrett, the Hon. Everard F.
Feilding, Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Mr. J.
G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
Lieut. Colonel G. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs.
Verrall, Mr. V. G. Woolley, Miss Alice Johnson, Research
Officer, and Mr. R. A. H. Bickford-Smith, Secretary.
The minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Ten new Members and thirty-nine new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEO., 1908.
The monthly accounts for June and July, August and
September, 1908, were presented and taken as read.
The application of the Dublin Section for recognition under
the rules passed by the Council on May 19th, 1908, was
unanimously granted.
On the proposal of Mr. Piddington, seconded by Professor
Barrett, the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour was elected a Vice-
President of the Society.
PEIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 24th Meeting for Members and Associates only was held
in the large hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.. on
Monday, November 2nd, 1908, at 4 p.m.; . the President, Mrs.
Sidgwick, in the chair.
A paper by MONSIEUR M. SAGE on " The alleged Miraculous
Hailstones of fiemiremont " was read by MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
The following is a brief abstract of the paper :
On May 20th, 1907, a procession in honour of the coro
nation of a certain famous image of the Virgin in the parish
church of Remiremont had been arranged by the clergy to
take place, but at the last moment was forbidden by the
municipal authorities. On the following Sunday, May 26th,
Remiremont and the neighbouring village of St. Etienne were
visited by an unusually violent hailstorm. Some of the hail
stones were of exceptionally large size, and it was alleged that
a considerable number of persons saw on them a representa
tion of the above-mentioned image of the Virgin. The parish
priest, M. Vuillemin, made careful enquiry into the facts in
order to report them to his ecclesiastical superiors, and col
lected the depositions of over a hundred witnesses, who stated
that they had seen the image on the hailstones.
One of our foreign Members having drawn attention to the
case and kindly offered to defray the expenses of an enquiry
into it, M. Sage was asked to undertake it, and went to Remire
mont in September of the present year.
Through the courtesy of the clergy he obtained introductions
to many of the mos't credible witnesses and was able to cross
Dec., 1908. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 317
examine them. He collected a number of statements from
them about their own impressions, and also obtained full
information about the events leading up to them, and earlier
traditions in connection with the image, which was an object of
special veneration in the neighbourhood. His general conclusion
was that many of these witnesses had actually seen on the
hailstones something more or less resembling the image, though
generally only after the appearance had been suggested to them;
and that this impression was an illusion, probably based on
the conformation of the large hailstones, some of which were
stated to consist of a central opaque mass, surrounded by a
transparent layer, while the external surface was again more
opaque.
PROFESSOR BARRETT said there were two points of interest in
this paper, one meteorological and the other the influence of
suggestion in creating an epidemic delusion. As regards the
meteorological,—hailstorms are usually accompanied with violent
electrical disturbances in the atmosphere, and very large hail
stones, such as occurred on this occasion, are by no means
uncommon. Hailstones are also not infrequently met with
having a series of concentric shells alternatively of opaque and
transparent ice ; the latter being due to the extrusion of air,
which when intermingled gives the whiteness and opacity to
transparent crystals of snow or salt. The central nucleus of
these concentric hailstones is generally, as was here noticed,
an opaque and somewhat irregular mass of hard snow. Very
possibly an excited imagination might imagine some resemblance
to a face in this nucleus and the transparent ring around
might give rise to the suggestion of the traditional corona of
a saint.
The psychological interest of this case is the ease with
which a suggestion, once made, causes others to perceive a
similar illusion. An instance of this occurred some years ago
in a village called Knoch, in a country district in Ireland.
Here, on the whitewashed gable of a small Roman Catholic
chapel, a peasant stated that he saw one evening a miraculous
light which appeared to him a radiance from the figure of the
Virgin or the scene of the Crucifixion, I am not sure which,
that he imagined he beheld. He told the story, and on a
subsequent evening others affirmed they saw the same miraculous
A2
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
vision. There is some doubt as to the origin of the light ; it
might have been the glare from a distant hand lamp, or it might
have been a practical joke. Anyhow, in spite of the parish
priest discrediting the story, numbers visited the district and
the light was seen by several. Convinced of its miraculous
character the whitewashed gable became a shrine to multitudes
of Catholic peasants, so that many hundreds of people flocked
to it to adore and be cured of physical infirmities. For a
time it threatened to rival Lourdes, as the most amazing cures
•were undoubtedly brought about. Portions of the plaster of
the gable were carried away until the rough stones were laid
bare as far up as could be reached. I asked a friend to visit
the place, take some photographs and report to me. One
large photograph, which I have at home, shows the gable hung
with a long double row of crutches left by those who had
been cured, and in front a vast kneeling crowd of peasants.
Few more striking instances could be found of the therapeutic
value of suggestion when accompanied by emotional exaltation.
ADDEESS TO THE DUBLIN SECTION OF THE S.P.E.
BY SIR OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.
[A SECTION of the S.P.E. has been founded in Dublin, with
the Eev. Dr. Barlow, Vice-Provost of Trinity College, as Chair
man, Professor W. F. Barrett as Vice-Chairman, and Mr. E. E.
Fournier d'Albe as Hon. Secretary.
During the recent visit of the British Association to Dublin
this Section gave a largely attended complimentary luncheon
to Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S. ; who, in response to a toast, made
a speech of which the following is a shorthand report :]
Mr. Chairman, Sir Archibald Geikie, My Lord Bishop, Dean
Bernard, Ladies and Gentlemen,—I need not add much to
what Professor Barrett has told you with regard to the
foundation and objects of our Society. It was founded
twenty-six years ago for the purpose of investigating certain
extraordinary facts which had been stated and described in a
more or less confused manner for centuries, and had aroused
the interest of a comparatively small scientific and literary
DBO., 1908. Address to the Dublin Section of the S.P.R. 319
group in London. Those facts, as stated at this time, with
some notable exceptions, appeared to be so mingled with
confused superstition as to be useless ; and the whole subject
imperatively demanded proper investigation. Such investiga
tions have been since carried through on scientific principles
by the S.P.R
As this is, I believe, your first reunion of this kind, you
will naturally expect me to say something concerning the
present state of the investigations which are being carried on.
But first let me congratulate you upon having secured as your
Vice-Chairman a man of the great experience and enthusiasm
of Professor Barrett, under whose guidance you may be
expected to make substantial progress. I must equally con
gratulate you on having secured the services of that ingenious
and accomplished physicist who fills the office of your Honorary
Secretary. Mr. Fournier d'Albe has been for many years
engaged in reviewing for us the progress made in Physical
Science on the continent, and has summarised it, each week,
in a very able manner. In fact he keeps us up to date.
You have here in Ireland a great deal of promising material
for investigation. The west of Ireland is especially, I believe,
rich in legendary lore, and in traditions of supernormal
phenomena. To analyse these, to extract from them their
residue of genuine fact, and to disentangle it from its admix
ture with fiction, will be an attractive and important function
of your Section. I do not wish to suggest that I object
to fiction. Fiction is one of the things which help to make
life worth living and which lift us above the dry detail of
everyday life. But in the class of phenomena with which we
have to deal, I cannot too strongly impress upon you the
danger of admitting the slightest trace of fiction to your
statement of facts. Your facts must be incontestable. A slight
trace of fiction is capable of destroying the value of a very
large amount of fact. We must stringently apply those
principles which have been found trustworthy in the develop
ment of science during the last few centuries. It is only thus
that we can hope to make lasting progress in the solution of
the problems with which we are confronted.
Now you may ask what progress has been actually made
by these methods. I answer that we have certainly
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
established the reality of telepathy. The fact of telepathy
itself is now becoming almost generally accepted. Whether
telepathy, or the transfer of thought from one mind to another
without any material link between them, and without the
action of the recognised senses, is an ordinary faculty common
to all mankind, or whether it is only found in certain favoured
individuals, I am not prepared to decide. That is a matter
for future study. As regards the phenomena of clairvoyance,
there is still a great deal in doubt. For one department of
it, that is to say, water-finding or dowsing, considerable evidence
has already been accumulated, notably by the exertions of your
Chairman of to-day (Prof. Barrett). Another important and
extremely interesting set of observations are those on prediction
or prophecy. In this case we must carefully distinguish between
legitimate inference from known facts, and such predictions as
are quite unconnected with previous experience and with facts
known to the persons concerned. A great deal of work remains
to be done in this department alone. Next come the so-called
Physical phenomena, such as movement of objects without
contact. There is but little doubt in my mind that such
movements do take place : I have had personal experience of
them. Nevertheless they are not yet really established as
facts, and if they were, there would still be a question whether
these movements are due to some independent intelligent
agency, or whether, as is most likely, they are an extension
of the ordinary power of the organism through which they are
produced. I can move this tumbler with my hand, but the
question remains whether I can move the same tumbler at a
distance of a couple of feet from my hand, without actually
touching it. Note that there is nothing inconceivable about
this. The boundary of an organism as of anything else is
more or less arbitrary ; we know that in a sense a vortex
ring exists not only where it is seen, but at some distance
also, and that the influence of every atom extends throughout
the visible universe. And so perhaps, on analogous lines, we
may look for some explanation of these curious occurrences
which will not take them altogether beyond the reach of more
ordinary experience.
What our Society has done most work upon is automatic
writing and trance speaking. These two classes of phenomena
DEC., 1908. Address to the Dublin Section of the SP.R 321
have a decided interest of their own, since through them we
obtain messages purporting to come from intelligences of our own
kind, and as a rule from some of our deceased fellow-creatures.
You know the kind of phenomena I mean : I do not mean
the so-called trance-preaching to Sunday audiences. In auto
matic writing the subject or medium holds a pencil in his
hand, and the hand is guided, or moved without the
active will of the writer, to form certain written characters
which spell out a more or less coherent message. In trance
speaking, it is not the hand but the vocal organs of the
medium which are used : again without his conscious inter
vention or control. Now both these classes of phenomena
are capable of several degrees of stringency in their treatment,
and I may say generally that the stringency of the tests which
we have been able to apply to them has been gradually
increased for the purpose of eliminating not only the unconscious
mental action of the writer, but also telepathy from living
people.
From the first, and throughout, we have received messages bear
ing a certain distinctive character, and having all the appearance
of originating in some intelligence which was quite distinct from
that of the medium. The impression of originality and indivi
duality thus conveyed is very strong to those immediately
concerned, but it is not sufficiently evidential to rank as a
scientific demonstration. Since the year 1900 conditions have
improved ; and quite recently a new method, the method of
cross-correspondences, seems to have been developed. This
method will, no doubt, loom large in the future ; and it is
appropriate therefore that I tell you something about it to-day.
Let me " explain : in such a way as to give a general idea
of the process, without any inappropriate attempt at exactitude,
or at actual record. There are three automatic writers, let us
say : Mrs. Piper in America, Mrs. Verrall in Cambridge, and
Mrs. Holland in India. All these receive automatic writings
through their hands two or three times per month. These
writings are regularly sent in to Mr. Piddington or to Miss
Alice Johnson in London, and they are compared from time
to time to see if there is any connection between the various
messages received from the three writers on any given day
or week. If the three writers wrote the same identical
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
message—it would not be the kind of evidence we want, for
it would clearly suggest telepathy between them. The message
must not be intelligible to each separately, but must become
luminous when put together. To take an imaginary example,
suppose Mrs. Piper got the words " British Association " written
through her hand. Suppose that at the same time Mrs. Verrall
got the word " Dublin." And suppose also that Mrs. Holland
got something about a " Meeting " at the same time, there
would obviously be some correspondence between these three
things. But since telepathy has become an established fact,
such correspondence is not sufficient to establish the agency of
an independent intelligence apart from the automatic writers.
It would be quite legitimate to suppose that the three writers
were in telepathic communication, and that some idea of the
British Association now meeting in Dublin was transmitted
from one to the other. But now take a further step :—suppose
that in the case of Mrs. Piper the words " Francis Darwin "
were written. That name does not suggest Dublin, and it
does not suggest a Meeting. Suppose also that in Mrs. Verrall's
writing the words " Parliament of Science " or some still more
roundabout phrase occurred. That would not suggest the name
" Darwin " except to those in the inner councils of the British
Association. Lastly suppose that Mrs. Holland automatically
drew the figure of a harp or a shamrock. In that case no
suggestion of either our President Mr. Darwin, or of the
British Association or of Dublin, would naturally be aroused.
And simple telepathy, being thus eliminated, by similar auto
matic precautions intensified on these lines, we should be
reduced to the only alternatives,—either that there is some
intelligence independent of all three writers influencing them
at the same time, or that the three writers are fully conscious
of what they are writing and that they have arranged a little
plot among themselves. To those who know the circumstances
under which the writings are obtained the latter possibility is
quite excluded. Well, we do get evidences of this kind. And
further, we sometimes get messages which point to a given
individual as control. We get, for instance, three such separate
names as Eupert, Constance, and Stephen, which obviously do
not suggest each other, introduced without meaning in the
midst of other matter ; one by one medium and one by another.
DEC., 1908. Address to the Dublin Section of the S.P.R. 323
These turn out to be the names of three children of a deceased
person who at the time is purporting to communicate : and
the names are given as proof of identity.
This is the method of cross-correspondence. It was not
devised altogether by experimenters on this side ; it seems to
have been partly invented or at any rate improved and developed
by some members of ours who have crossed the boundary. We
are beginning almost to speak about the S.P.R. on the other
side, which is quite as active and even more ingenious than
that portion which is still on earth. Much of the evidence
which has come to hand will shortly be published in our
Proceedings, But I may anticipate its publication somewhat,
by quoting one or two of the most remarkable instances. [The
speaker then referred to two or three instances, which have
since been published in Mr. Piddington's paper on " A Series
of Concordant Automatisms " in the Proceedings of the S.P.R.,
Vol. XXII., pp. 19-416. One of these is connected with a
passage from Browning's poem " Abt Vogler," which was selected
by one of the Controls as a remarkably appropriate expression
of an essential feature of cross-correspondence, and is reported in
detail on page 59 et seq.; while another relates to a test question
carefully contrived by Mrs. Verrall to put to the " Myers "
control of Mrs. Piper, as to whether the words " OI!TO? oupavo?
O.KU/J.WV" which are a special quotation from Plotinus, meant
anything to him : these words being of course mere gibberish
to Mrs. Piper herself. For a full account of this episode see
pages 107, etc., of the paper just referred to; while a third
and most complicated group of cross-correspondences is the
"East and West" set, reported on pages 241-281.]
These are among the best evidence for a separate and
peculiarly " Myers "-like intelligence which we have yet attained.
It is not of course complete, but it is singularly good. We
hope yet to reach a scientific demonstration of a future life.
It is true, as we are often assured, that such a demonstration
is not required in religion, since faith is independent of it.
But faith can be strengthened, even in the religious mind ;
while, in the mind which is more purely intellectual, some such
demonstration is increasingly called for. It is enough to know
that we are progressing, and progressing at a sufficiently rapid
rate. We need not be in haste ; we may possess our souls
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
in patience. Let me tell you a little story which illustrates
what I mean. In Liverpool there is a steam ferry which
takes people across the Mersey to Birkenhead. It touches at
each landing stage for a short time, and it is not unusual to
see people in a hurry jump across the gap between the landing
stage and the boat after it has started, rather than be left
behind. It happened the other day that a ludy in a great
hurry to reach the other side managed successfully to jump
across the gap, though with the exertion she fell upon the
deck. To the boatman who helped her up, she said, " That
was a close shave," to which he replied—" It was, ma'am, but
you needn't have been in such a hurry, for the boat is
coming in."
We need not be in a hurry either. Our boat is coming in.
I believe that a new era of intelligent and critical acceptance
is pending for the work we have in hand. I hope that you
in Ireland may take a large and valuable share in that work,
and I wish you well in your future task of sane and balanced
and careful investigation.
OBITUAEY.
EDWARD T. BENNKTT.
WE regret to record the death on November 16th of Mr. E. T.
Bennett, who for nearly twenty years was Assistant Secretary
of our Society, at the age of 77. Mr. Bennett's long and
intimate connection with the Society began at the Conference
held in London, on January 6th, 1882, which led to the founda
tion of the S.P.E. I had not met Mr. Bennett before that time,
but was so much struck with his quiet, unassuming manner and
business aptitude, combined with deep interest in and know
ledge of the subjects that had brought us together, that I agreed
with Mr. Dawson Eogers—who had assisted me in convening
the Conference—in asking Mr. Bennett provisionally to act as
Honorary Secretary. This he did, and the Council of the Society
(subsequently formed) ratified the selection, so that during the
first year of the Society's existence Mr. Bennett acted as our
Honorary Secretary, as will be seen from Vol. I. of our Proceed
., 1908. Obituary. 325
ings. Owing to the rapidly-increasing office and clerical work of
the Society, Mr. Bennett, at no little self-sacrifice, found it
necessary to relinquish his other duties in order to devote himself
to the business of the Society. Under these circumstances the
Council offered him a small salary, and he became Assistant
Secretary when Mr. Edmund Gurney undertook the office of
Honorary Secretary towards the close of 1882.
For many years Mr. Bennett carried on the business work
of the Society, and his unfailing courtesy, ready helpfulness,
and sympathetic attention to every member who sought his
assistance or brought a case for investigation, will not be
forgotten by those who knew him. Personally I was much
indebted to him, for whenever I was unable to attend a Council
meeting, he kept me in touch, by periodical letters, with the
work going on in the Society. It would have been difficult
to find a more honourable, unselfish, painstaking and inde
fatigable secretary than Mr. Bennett. The Council showed
their appreciation of his long and faithful service when failing
health compelled him to retire in Easter 1902, by a resolution
recorded in the Journal of the Society, and by requesting his
acceptance of a retiring allowance, at the same time electing
him an Hon. Associate of the Society.
Upon leaving London, Mr. Bennett took a house at Port
Isaac, North Cornwall, where he resided until his death. His
interest in the S.P.E. and his literary activity did not cease
with his retirement. He published a series of handbooks on
Psychical Eesearch, in three of which he gave a useful outline
of various phases of the Society's work together with other
evidence. The fourth of these books, On the Direct Phenomena
of Spiritualism, was issued in the present year and deals with
more debateable phenomena, some of which indeed, in my
opinion, are of very slight evidential value. However here,
as in other matters, Mr. Bennett had the courage of his opinions,
and moral courage—such as was required of him and other
pioneers a quarter of a century ago—more than compensates
for what some of us may consider scientific errors of judgment.
Mr. Bennett's public interests were not confined to psychical
phenomena. Like so many other members of the Society of
Friends, to which body he belonged by birth and early associa
tions, he was an active worker in many fields of social reform.
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
In temperance work his services were in constant request, and
his pen was rarely idle. He started, financed, and edited The
British Women's Temperance Journal so long ago as 1883, when
the late Mrs. Lucas, sister of John Bright, took the movement
warmly in hand.
For many years Mr. Bennett lived in Richmond, Surrey,
and the Mayor of that town recently stated that his own early
career owed much to our departed friend. The Richmond local
newspaper, in the course of an appreciative notice of Mr. Bennett,
remarks : " One of the most valuable things that he accom
plished in Richmond was beyond doubt the setting on foot of
the Saturday night concerts at the College Hall, which proved
so attractive during a long series of years. Of these he used
to say that he was convinced while the hall was full the
public-houses were proportionately empty. His influence in
the relations of personal daily life was always thrown steadily
upon the side of righteousness and temperance with much
valuable effect."
In the notice of his death, contained in the organ of the
United Kingdom Alliance, the curate-in-charge of the church
at Port Isaac writes of Mr. Bennett's death, " Thus ends one
chapter of a most unselfish and beautiful life, which has been
an inspiration to all of us who have been privileged to know
him." And to this I would add the tribute of my old friend
and fellow-member of the Council of our Society from the
commencement, Mr. Podtnore, who knew Mr. Bennett even better
than I did, and who, in concluding his obituary notice of our
late Secretary in Light, speaks as follows : " A man of singular
modesty and kindliness, without malice and without guile, faith
ful in duty, and loyal to all allegiances, he has done his life's
work and has entered into his well-earned rest."
I am sure our members will join me in expressing our
deepest sympathy with Mrs. Bennett who survives her husband.
W. F. BARRETT.
DEO., 1908. Cases. 327
CASES.
L. 1171. Coincident dream (continued from the Journal for
October, 1908).
THE report of the accident in the Standard (1 Jan. 1908), is
as follows :
BOURSE EXPLOSION IN ROME.
20 PERSONS INJURED.
ANCIENT TEMPLE DAMAGED.
(FROM DUR CORRESPONDENT.)
EOME, Dec. 31.
A terrifying explosion occurred this afternoon in the centre of the
city, and the news quickly spread that the seat of the occurrence
was the Stock Exchange, situated inside the remains of the magni
ficent Temple of Neptune, which was huilt by the Emperor Hadrian.
Thousands of people were quickly on the scene. It was found that
the roof of the Exchange had collapsed through the force of the
explosion, injuring about 20 persons, mostly clerks.
Their injuries were chiefly to the head. There was a procession
of cabs bearing the victims to the hospital. Pathetic scenes were
witnessed when the relatives and friends of brokers and their clerks,
engaged in the Stock Exchange, flocked to the hospital and were
unable to recognise in the shockingly disfigured sufferers their own
husbands, brothers, and sons.
ROME, Dec. 31.
The explosion was caused by an escape of gas, and the noise was
like that of a bomb. The glass roof of the ante-chamber to the
central hall of the Bourse was completely destroyed, and the ante
chamber was half wrecked, the doors being torn from their hinges.
One of the corners is in a tottering condition. Large numbers of
troops, detectives, and police have gone to the spot to assist in the
work of clearance. In the confusion, it was thought at first that
many stockbrokers had been injured, but it was found that the
majority of the twelve persons injured were employees of the post
and telegraphic service, and that the brokers on the floor of the
house escaped.
The origin of the explosion has been explained by the statements
of two messengers employed at the Bourse, who are among the
injured at the San Giacomo Hospital. They say that they were in
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
their room at the Bourse when they noticed a smell of gas. One of
them at that moment lit a cigarette, which caused the explosion.
Settlement operations had just been completed, and the securities
which had changed hands were being verified in the rooms set apart
for the purpose. The clerks of the Banca d'ltalia engaged in this
work were, fortunately, able to save the securities, and the verifica
tion was accomplished as usual.
Another gas accident occurred here to-day, a gasometer exploding
near the Piazza Colonna. Several workmen were injured, and had
to be taken to the hospital. The explosion caused a loud report,
which brought crowds of people at once to the Piazza Colonna.—•
Eeuter.
L. 1173. Telepathic dream.
Miss EDMUNDS dreamed that she saw a vision of Mr. Stewart
Brown whilst his father (in the room below) was thinking about
crystal visions and trying to imagine he saw his son who had
died four months before. Miss Edmunds had seen a miniature
of Mr. Stewart Brown but had not met him. The following is
Miss Edmunds's account :—
On Wednesday, June 3rd, Dorothy showed me a miniature of her
brother Stuart, who died last February 5th, and whom I have never
seen.
On Thursday, June 4, I went upstairs at nine and undressed in
the dark so as to enjoy the lights in the distance through the open
windows. I loitered, and several times sat on the sofa by the
window looking towards the Town Hall. It was 9.30 before I was
in bed, when I fell asleep almost immediately. I awoke from a
dream soon after ten. (I judged the time, not from my watch, but
from hearing the clock strike eleven (what seemed to be) nearly an
hour after awaking.)
I dreamed that I was awake and sitting on the sofa looking down
the hill towards the lights among the trees, just as I had sat before
going to bed, when suddenly one of the lights took the form of a
human face among the trees. I was so surprised that I rose up
and went nearer to the window and exclaimed aloud :
" What an astonishing thing, that looks exactly like the face of
Stuart Brown ! "
The face immediately smiled ; the eyes lit up and looked right
into mine, and the face came swiftly towards me through the trees,
when, just as it got near the window, it vanished, and I awoke
DEO., 1908. Cases. 329
and heard footsteps in a closet which is next to the room I
occupied.
The dream was so vivid that I could, on awaking, mentally recall
the face and compare it with the miniature which I had seen the
day before. It was like the miniature, but life size and radiant
with light and expression, coming out of the light at which I had
been looking.
The dream wakened me so thoroughly that I did not sleep again
until after twelve.
I related the dream to Mrs. Brown at breakfast time after Mr.
Brown had gone, and asked her if she went to the closet and
whether she thought of Stuart at the time. I thought in the night
that such might be the case.
Before mentioning the dream to Mr. Brown in the evening, Mrs.
Brown asked him what he was thinking of when he went to the
closet the night before. He could not remember thinking of any
thing special excepting in connection with some boots which he
placed on a shelf, and which he had not worn since in camp last
summer ; but he interrupted me, or tried to, when I began to tell
him my dream and spoke of sitting at the window and looking at
the lights. After I had finished telling my dream he related the
following, which he wrote immediately after.
LucY EDMUNDS.
June 5, 1896.
Mr. Brown's account is as follows :
On the evening of June 4, 1896, about 10.10 p.m., I was sitting
in the parlor facing the bay-window looking south-west, reading the
paper. My mind wandered from the reading to thoughts of Myers'
articles on Crystal-Visions, which I had read a day or two before.
Looking out of the window I thought of Stuart, wondering if it
were possible for his face to appear to me and with a great longing
that I might see him. I wondered if I could be susceptible to such
visions, but as I had never experienced anything of the kind, in a
few moments gave it up.
After attending to one or two household duties, I went upstairs
at 10.20 as I noticed by the clock. On reaching my room the first
thing done was to put away a new pair of shoes, moving at the
time an old pair which I had not worn since I was in camp with
Stuart last August.
This evening Miss Edmunds and Mrs. Brown questioned me as
to whether I went into the closet and if my mind was fixed upon
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEO., 1908.
anything definite at the time. I could remember only the shoes,
etc., but as the questions only applied to that time I could not
specify anything else.
Miss Edmunds then began to tell her dream ; when she spoke of
looking out of the window in her room, where the outlook is almost
precisely the same as the one I looked from in the parlor, I tried
to interrupt her, to tell of my thoughts about crystal visions and
wish to see Stuart, because I felt there was some connection with
Miss Edmunds' dream ; but Mrs. Brown is such a stickler for good
manners that she would not permit the interruption, and insisted
upon my hearing the whole dream before I said anything !
HENRY TEMPLE BROWN.
June 5, 1896.
Mrs. Brown writes :
Miss Edmunds related to me her dream of seeing Stuart's face
this morning before leaving for Boston.
EVA A. BROWN.
June 5, 1896.
Miss Edmunds adds :
Mr. Brown's "interruptions" occurred before I had mentioned
seeing the face, or spoken of Stuart, in fact before I had begun
the dream itself; but Mrs. Brown was eager for him to hear the
dream, so that I scarcely noticed the interruption at the time, but
remembered it afterwards.
L. EDMUNDS.
which Mrs. Brown confirms :
What Miss Edmunds says above concerning Mr. Brown's effort to
interrupt her is exactly as I remember it.
EVA A. BROWN.
June 9, 1896.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ON THE RELATION BETWEEN MYERSP AND RECTOR.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL S.P.R.
DEAR SIR,—In the course of studying Mr. Piddington's very able
exposition of the "Cross-Correspondences," contained in the last
volume of Proceedings, a question has arisen in my mind which
DEO., 1908. Correspondence. 331
doubtless has occurred to others. May I, therefore, be allowed to
put it into print, so that it may receive an answer through the
Journal ?
Are there any indications in the unpublished records which can
explain why it was necessary to spell out the Latin Message audibly
to Rector, in order that it might reach MyersP ?
It is quite understood, of course, that the written communications
purport to be made through Rector as amanuensis, but this does not
explain why MyersP cannot dispense with Rector as an inter
mediary when he receives a message.
The problem applies equally whether we suppose that MyersP is
really F. W. H. Myers or that Myersp is a trance-personality of
Mrs. Piper's. In the latter case the extraordinary knowledge mani
fested in Mrs. Piper's script can only be accounted for by assuming
that her trance-personalities have access to the thoughts—the unex
pressed thoughts—in other minds. If so, why could not the trance-
personality have grasped the contents of the Latin Message if it
had been unexpressed, and simply silently transmitted word by
word to MyersP 1
If the spirit hypothesis is adopted the question still remains, for
according to this hypothesis MyersP ought to be able to receive
unuttered thoughts.
It is quite conceivable that at the moment when he is attempting
to communicate MyersP may be incapable of receiving unuttered
thoughts, for in an earlier report of Mrs. Piper's trance a communi
cator, Margaret M., is reported as saying, " Your thoughts do not
reach me at all when I am speaking to you, but I hear a strange
sound and have to half guess. . . . (Don't you see me at other
times 1) Oh yes . . . much better than I do when I try to speak "
(Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 520, 521).
This does not quite explain my difficulty, however. The Latin
Message might have been inarticulately formulated with thought
concentration before the trance began. Would it in that case have
been received equally well by MyersP 1
Yours faithfully,
H. A. DALLAS.
We sent Miss Dallas's letter to Mr. Piddington, who replied
as follows :
The point raised by Miss Dallas is not one capable of solution in
the present meagre state of our understanding of trance-phenomena.
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
But I can explain the practical reasons which led me to spell out
the words of the Latin Message to Eector, in order that they might
reach MyersP.
At the present time, and for a good many years past, Rector,
with rare exceptions into which I need not enter, acts as inter
mediary and amanuensis or spokesman for both sides ; that is to
say, he receives messages from the "spirits," and by writing or
speech conveys them to the sitters ; and he receives oral messages
from the sitters and conveys them to the " spirits." In other words,
all communication is effected through Rector, and he is the only
"spirit" who communicates and is communicated with directly.
Rector does not understand Latin (v. Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 314
and 337), and consequently to make sure that he should transmit
correctly sounds unfamiliar to him, the Latin words were spelt out
to him letter by letter.
Although I believe that the trance-personalities, whether spirits or
not, do obtain telepathically from the sitters and others at least a
part of the information they display about matters unknown to
Mrs. Piper's normal consciousness, there is no reason for assuming,
as Miss Dallas seems to do, that this involves their having unlimited
or even extensive access to the unexpressed thoughts in other minds,
for we have never met with any case of telepathic faculty even
approximating to such a degree of proficiency. The utmost that
we can say of telepathy, as we know it, is that it means an occasional
access to some of the thoughts in other minds. The knowledge
manifested in Mrs. Piper's trance—extraordinary though it is—
certainly does not represent more than a minute proportion of the
ideas which are present or latent in the minds of her sitters or
other persons. And all the experiments with her go to show that
though the sitters' thoughts may occasionally be transmitted to her,
there is no guarantee that this will happen on any given occasion.
The experiment of the Latin Message was in any case an exceed
ingly difficult and complicated one, and it only partially succeeded.
If we had complicated it still further by attempting to transmit the
message telepathically, it would probably have failed altogether.
The question remains : What is the real relation between Rector
and Myersp, and why is there this apparent difficulty of communi
cation between them ? I do not, of course, profess to be able to
answer this question, or even to suggest any satisfactory solution of
it. But I may point out that the phenomena shew a remarkable
consistency in that the difficulty of communication is not confined
DEC., 1908. Correspondence. 333
to one side ; for, just as Rector appears to find it difficult to transmit
unfamiliar words to MyersP, so MyersP appears to find it difficult
to transmit unfamiliar words to Rector. Examples will be found in
Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 165-167, where Rector writes "llliard"
for Iliad; p. 332, where "Evelyn Hope" was first given by Rector
as "Evangelical"; and pp. 371-3, where "Vol," "Volgar," "VM,"
"A B Volugevar," aud "Volugur ABt" represent Rector's attempts
at Abt Vogler.
It is a fact of great interest that the words " Plotinus," " Homer's
Iliad," " Abt Vogler," and " that out of three sounds he frame, not
a fourth sound, but a star "—these words constituting four of the
best proofs of supernormal acquisition of knowledge displayed in the
trance during the English sittings with Mrs. Piper—were, so it was
represented, all given to Rector by MyersP after "Hector had left
the light," i.e. after the conclusion of the trance, or at any rate after
the conclusion of the trance-writing (v. Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp.
165, 170, 369, 373, 383, and 389). Only in these four cases was
this particular method of communication between MyersP and
Rector said to have been employed, and in each case a striking
success was achieved. If success had not thus invariably followed,
one might have thought that the mention of this particular tnodus
operandi was merely a bit of unmeaning dramatisation ; but in view
of the constant success attained, I think we are bound to believe
that some different method of communication between Rector and
M3'ersP, and one more likely to prove effective than the ordinary
method, was really employed. If Mrs. Piper returns to England it
might be well to urge the trance-personalities to have recourse more
frequently to this exceptional method than they have had in the past.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
II.
REMINISCENT CRYSTAL VISIONS.
(1)
I WISH to point out that the editorial note to the report of the
cases, printed under the above title in the Journal for November,
1908, p. 298, would appear to ignore the most important feature.
The first experiment is (perhaps) unique with reference to the
question put to E. E. P. when he was hypnotised a second time.
The question was : What made you see this place in the crystal ?
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
The answer, given after long hesitation, was, "The gas thing in the
middle of the drawing-room was all made of glass—it was beautiful.
The little knob on the candles in the church to-day were made like
it, and I suppose (my italics) that made me think of the place again."
This answer shows that E. E. P., under hypnotism, was using his
understanding—he was thinking personally. Not only this—it also
suggests that he was using his understanding to determine a question
of relative thought which he could not have done if not hypnotised.
There was no question of " subliminal memories " ; there was active
personal thought in the use of stored ideas.
So far as the experiment goes it is against the theory that hypnotism
causes any exaltation of faculty. It suggests rather that, not the
understanding of the patient, but the environments of his under
standing are affected by hypnotism, so that he can use his under
standing to better effect.
It was in reference to what I have above stated that in the (unpub
lished) note I sent with the cases a wish was expressed for further
experiments on the same lines.
If we wish to arrive at any working theory of what hypnotism
effects we should, I think, try to determine how the understanding
of the patient operates under hypnotism as distinct from the opera
tions of his understanding when not hypnotised, and this experiment
with E. E. P. appears to me to point the way to, perhaps, a new
departure in the investigation of hypnotic phenomena.
F. C. CONSTABLE.
(2)
WEST THURROCK VICARAGE,
GRAYS, ESSEX.
It is a long time since I read an article which interested me more
than the evidence of Rev. H. E. on Reminiscent Crystal-visions. For
years I have had the idea (shaved, doubtless, by other members of
the S.P.R.) that the " visions " in crystal gazing, as well as many
of the alleged visions of " Spirit Guides " and shadowy figures of
deceased relatives of sitters (as, professedly, seen by mediums), are
due to the reflex action of the sitter's brain, and thus do not
represent real scenes (or real persons) occurring at the time, but
simply a renewal and transmission from the brain of the sitter to
the brain of the medium of impressions long gone by, and which
we are apt to imagine cannot be reproduced, either accidentally or
DKC., 1908. Correspondence. 335
purposely. Take an instance, viz., a sitter goes to a medium to
enquire concerning a deceased relative. The medium believes he
actually sees the deceased person, accurately describes the dress
worn, the features, peculiarities, name, etc., but all the time may,
unknown to himself, be simply reproducing the mental visual
impressions in the sitter's mind. In such case, we may well con
ceive the alarm or surprise of the latter at the latent impressions
thus re-conveyed, and having all the appearance of reality. The
existence of this power, and the curious psychological state which
favours it, ought to be a warning to experimenters, and prevent a
lot of self-deception, as well as unconscious fraud. The nearest
parallel I can think of is the putting on (after years) of an old
gramophone record containing the registered voice of the dead, and
then mistaking the result for the actual efforts of the present, sup
posed living, unseen singer.
But there are, too, other phases of the matter also worthy of
consideration, viz., firstly, the effect of a thrilling story told into
the ear may result in producing an impression as vivid as a visual
one, and the scenery and characters of the story (be it false or
true) may, to the hearer, have, under certain conditions, all the
appearance of reality, and I may even go so far as to say that
the scenery and characters of the story may be transmitted to the
brain of a medium, being seen by him mentally as realities. Secondly,
we are so "fearfully and wonderfully made" that even the sugges
tion of a name or the least hint from an operator to a subject,
even without hypnosis, may evoke quite a number of old impres
sions—ten, twenty, forty years old—which become re-clothed with
all their ancient vividness, and appear actualities of the present.
We can, further, imagine them transmitted from person to person.
To illustrate the first phase, I need only refer to an experiment
(to which I was a witness) some years ago, when the Congress of
Experimental Psychology met at Gower Street (the late Prof. H. Sidgwick
being in the chair). A hypnotised subject of Dr. Bramwell had
whispered into his ear a short, vivid story. On wakening, he was
given a crystal, and asked to describe what he saw therein, when,
to the astonishment of all, he described the scenery and characters
of the vivid story which had been whispered into his ear in the
trance. He professed to actually see these characters moving across
the plane of the crystal as living realities.
Again, about thirty years ago, having hypnotised a subject, I told
him to look at a certain spot on the wall papering and he would
336 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1908.
see a clown. (There was no such figure on the wall papering.) I
noticed that every time he looked at the spot he burst out into fits
of laughter, as if he thoroughly enjoyed what he saw. When asked
what it was, he said he saw a very funny clown on the platform of
a circus, and the clapping audience around him. He heard the jokes
and was obliged to laugh with the rest. Here you have probably
some long forgotten visual impressions—of a circus the man had
once been to—reproduced by the mere suggestion of the word
"clown," the imagination or the memory dressing up the impres
sion in its old clothing. I am certain it was not from my mind he
reproduced it, because I had not seen a clown in a circus, and was
far more interested in the experiment than in trying to fill in the
surroundings of the imaginary clown.
Once more, I have reason to know, from personal experience at
seances, that one's own imagination, playing unchecked (even in a
strong mind), can be hallucinated to an extent almost incredible.
The subject of the recall of past impressions, and the effects thus
produced, is a very fascinating one and worthy of the closest
investigation.
J. W. HAYES.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XIII
1907-1908.
A.
A., MR., Case contributed by 154, 155
Accounts of Income and Expenditure of the Society - 18, 24, 25, 178, 188
Adams, Mrs., Case contributed by 130, 132
Allard, Rev. F., Evidence as to the " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur - 9
America, Notice to Members of the Society residing in - - - 16
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research —
Death of Dr. R. Hodgson 23, 26
Dissolution of the Branch 23, 26
American Institute for Scientific and Psychical Research —
Formation of 26
Review of Proceedings of- - - - - - - -124
Amsterdam, International Congress of Psychiatry at - - - - 48
Animals apparently affected by Psychical Phenomena 28, 29, 62, 144, 159, 160
„ Apparitions of - - 58-62, 255-261
„ Impressions coinciding with danger to 80
Annual General Meetings of the Society—
(1907) - 18
(1908) 178
Anonymously contributed Cases, 9, 91, 153
Arensburg Disturbances, the, 30, 127, 144, 158
Automatic Messages (Table Tilting, Writing, etc.), Instances of
35-40, 51, 98-101, 211, 321-314
ii Index to Vol. XIII.
Automatic (?) Phenomena, A Case of 15
Automatic Telegraphy, Case of 219
Automatic Writings—
Miss Alice Johnson on a series of 98
„ Cross correspondences - - - 99-101
See also " Mrs. Forbes," " Mrs. Holland," and Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Automatism and Possession, Sir Oliver Lodge on 180
See also Divining Rod, and Spiritualism, Physical Phenomena of.
B.
BAOGALLY, W. W., A suggested explanation of Sambor's "Chair" Test 273, 274
„ „ Reply to, by Count Petrovo-Solovovo 295, 296
Balfour, the Rt. Hon. G. W., Re-election as President of the Society - 19
Barrett, J., Case contributed by 259-260
Barrett, Prof. W. P.—
E. T. Bennett, Obituary Notice of 324
A Recent Case of a Veridical Phantasm of the Dead ... 227
On Experimental Automatism 51, 52
On the Threshold of a New World of Thought, by, Review of - 275
Baxter, C. H., Case confirmed by 251
Bay Chaleur, The " Fire Ship "of 8
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., Case contributed by 37, 38
" Beauchamp, The Misses," Case of
M'Dougall, W., on 20
„ Podmore, F., on 20
„ "Sally," differences between—and the
other personalities - 20-23
Belding, A. M., On the " Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur - - - - 9-12
Bennett, E. T., Obituary Notice of 324
Bickford-Smith, R. A. H., Appointment as Secretary and Editor 98, 114, 187
Blodgett, Mrs., On the "Slate-Writing" of Mrs. Francis - - - 294
Boirac, Eniile, La Psychologie Inconnue, by, Review of 285
Booth, Mrs., Case contributed by 211,214,215
Booth, C. H., Case confirmed by 217
Bramwell, Dr. Milne, On Time-appreciation in Hypnosis - - - 84, 85
Brentano, Clement, On the Visions of Anna K. von Emmericli - 122, 123
Brown, H. T., Case contributed by 329
Bruno, J., On the "Fire Ship "of Bay Chaleur 10
Burgess, Dr. O. O., Case collected by 308
Burrows, Mrs., Case confirmed by 239
Buxhoewden Family, The. See Arensburg Disturbances.
Byatt, Miss C. E., Case contributed by 306
C.
C., M., Case contributed by 219
C., Mrs., Case contributed by 153,155
Index to Vol. XIII. iii
Carrell, E., Case confirmed by 257
Carriiigton, Hereward, Reference to his investigation of a Poltergeist
case 127
„ On the "Slate-Writing" of Mrs. Francis- - - 293,294
„ On the Trance State 204
„ Vitality, Fasting, and Nutrition, by, Review of - - - 288
Cases—
"G." 52, 156
"L." ----- 27,79,80,103,116,118,119,120,130,
136, 140, 142, 153, 210, 234, 282, 284, 327, 328
"M. Aut." 35,211
"P." - - 167
"S." 194
Caulfield, F. W., Case contributed by 121
Chase, G. V., Case contributed by 130
Chase, J. C., Case confirmed by 135
Cheltenham College, Memorial to F. W. H. Myers at - - - - 148
Child Percipients 91
Christian Science, Alleged Cures by 170
„ Eddy, Mrs. G. Biker, Review of the Life of, by
J. A. Hill 169,199
„ See also Quimby, Q. Q.
Clairvoyance, Mediumistic 124, 125
See also Crystal Visions and Dreams.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, Case collected by ----- - 80
Coleman, W. Emmette, On the Mediumship of Mrs. Francis - - 293
Coma, Vision during a State of - - - 87
Committees, Elections on (1907) 19
(1908) 179
„ Report of Sub-Committee on Local Sections - 163, 243, 263
" Compact " Cases - 103
Constable, F. C., Case collected by 298
„ on Reminiscent Crystal Visions .... 333
Correspondence, Miscellaneous - - - 42, 43, 44, 46, 144, 158, 204, 222
330, 331, 333, 334
Council, Elections on 18,178,179
„ Meetings - 2,18,50,82,97,98,147,162,178,227,242,266,315
„ Reports for the years 1906, 1907 18,23,186
Criticism of the Society for Psychical Research, Reply to the Occult
Review by Miss A. Johnson Ill
Cross-Correspondences. See The Automatic Script of " Mrs. Forbes,"
" Mrs. Holland," and Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and the Trance Pheno
mena of Mrs. Piper.
Crystal Visions, Clairvoyant 56, 64
„ Reminiscent 298, 333, 334
„ Retrocognitive 56, 64
iv Index to Vol. XIII.
D.
D., MR. AND MRS., Case contributed by 119, 120
D., B., Case contributed by 194
Dallas, Miss H. A., On the Relation between Myersp and Rector - 330
Dead, Phantasms of the—
„ Dreams 93,94,96,118,119,236,237
„ Hallucinations 91, 92, 93, 94, 96, 227
Dickinson, G. Lowes, Case collected by 284
Divining Bod, Discovery by, of Coins 52
„ „ of Water, 52
Documentary Evidence, Contemporary Extant
29, 30, 57, 59, 130, 243-255, 282
Dollinger, Dr., Case recorded by 123
Dowsing, by Miss C. Miles, Reference to 52
Dream Romances 90
Dreams, Recurrent 137, 139, 153, 155
„ Simultaneous 118, 119
See also Dead, Phantasms of, Premonitions and Telepathy.
Dublin Section of the Society for Psychical Besearch—
Address to, by Sir Oliver Lodge ------- 318
Formation of 316, 318
Dying, Hallucinations in connection with the ----- 308
„ Visions of the 87
E.
E., MR. AND MRS. S. P., Case contributed by 210
E., Mrs. M. W., Case collected by 219
E., The Rev. H., Case contributed by 298, 333, 334
Eddy, Mrs. Mary G. Baker, Review of the Life of, by J. A. Hill 169, 199
Editorship of the Proceedings and Journal, Change in - - - 98, 1 1 4
Edmunds, Miss L., Case contributed by ------ 328
Elles, Miss G. L., On the Luminous Appearances in connection with
the Welsh Revival 12
Emmerich, Anna K. von, Note on the Visions of 122
Endowment Fund for Psychical Besearch, Accounts of - - • 25, 208
„ „ „ Donation to 191
Epidemics, Religious 317, 318
F.
FAITH or Mind Healing. See Christian Science.
Fasting as a Cure of Disease. See Carrington, Hereward.
Feilding, Hon. Everard—
Co-Honorary Secretary, Election as 19
Hallucination as an explanation of certain Physical Phenomena 269, 270
On the Increase in the Staff of the Society 114
"Fire Ship "of Bay Chaleur, The 8
Index to Vol. XIII. v
Fletcher, Miss Dorothy, Case contributed by 57
Fletcher, Mrs., Case contributed by 52
Florence, E. B., On the Definition of the Term " Hallucination " - 18, 34
" Forbes, Mrs.," The Automatic Script of ------ 99
Fortwanger, Anna, Clairvoyant Experiments with - 220
Francis, Mrs., Alleged Mediumship of 293
„ Exposure of 294
Fraudulent and "Automatic" Phenomena—
Miss Alice Johnson on the difference between - - - 5, 6, 43-4
Fryer, Rev. A. T., Cases collected by 8
„ „ On Luminous Appearances in connection with the
Welsh Revival 40
G.
G., MR., Case contributed by 309
Ganong, W. F., On the "Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur - - - -8,13
Geels, F. M., Thought Transference Experiments with - - 277-279
Glynn, R., Case contributed by 80
Gollin, Miss A. A., Case contributed by 234
Govett, F. M., On the Arensburg Disturbances - ... 144( 153
„ „ Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson .... 153
Gower, Dr. J. H.—
On Miss Johnson's Recent Sittings in America 42
On " Physical Phenomena " - - - - - - - 3, 27, 42
Graham, J. W.,Case collected by 87
Green, Dr. J. Orne, On the " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur - - - 10, 11
Grieve, Miss B. H., Case contributed by 27, 28
Griffiths, Rev. W., Case contributed by 41
Guardian, The, Case recorded in 122
Gurney, Edmund, Definition of the Term " Hallucination " 34
H.
HALL, Miss H. A., Case contributed by 59, 61
Hallucination, as a possible explanation of " Physical Phenomena " - 7, 8
„ Count Petrovo-Solovovo on 266
„ Definition of the Term 18, 34, 35
Hallucinations, Collective,
27-29, 58, 62-64, 103, 108, 210, 259-262, 308-12, 317-318
„ Dying persons, in connection with - - - 308, 311
„ Subjective- - 28,29,91,92,94,210,308,311,316-318
„ „ Non-coincidental, of the Living - 28, 210
„ See also Dead, Phantasms of, and Telepathy.
Hamilton, J., Case contributed by 197, 198
Harper, J., On the " Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur 10
Haunts, Apparitions (Lights, Figures, etc.) 52, 62-64, 156, 157, 256, 257-262
„ „ Collectively seen - ... 02-64, 259-262
vi Index to Vol. XIII.
Haunts, Poltergeist Phenomena connected with - 156, 157
„ Sounds 156-158
„ Touches 58, 156
„ Tragic Incidents apparently connected with - - - 56, 64, 258
Hayes, Rev. J. W., On Reminiscent Crystal Visions - 334
Hill, J. Arthur, Review of the Life of Mrs. Mary Baker Eddy - 169, 199
Hodgson, Dr. R., Prof. Munsterberg's Criticisms of some Alleged
Communications from - 163, 164
„ Cases collected by
130, 136, 140, 142, 153, 210, 211, 234, 308
„ Death of 23, 26
Hoe Benham, " Haunted " Lane at 255-262
Hbffding, Prof., The Philosophy of Religion, Reference to - - - 151
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., Case collected by 118
Holland, Franklin, Case contributed by 106
" Holland, Mrs.," The Automatic Script of - - - 98, 115, 187, 321-322
„ Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. A. W. Verrall
99-102, 321-322
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of 7, 267-272
Hypnotism, Medical Society for the Study of 14
„ Phenomena of (Miscellaneous)
46, 83-87, 220-222, 270-71, 285-288, 298-301, 333-336
„ Anaesthesia 286, 287
„ Clairvoyance 220-222
„ Hallucinations, Post-Hypnotic - - -270-271,334,335
„ Memory, Revivals of 298-301, 333-336
„ Physical Effluence, Theory of 285-288
„ Time-appreciation by Somnambules - 83-87
Hypnotism and Suggestion, by Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Review of - - 46
Hyslop, Prof., Case recorded by -------- 126
„ Criticism of, by Prof. Mtinsterberg, Dr. Schiller's Com
ments on 163
„ Dissolution of the American Branch of the Society - 26
„ Formation of the American Institute for Scientific
Research 26
I.
ILLUSIONS, Epidemic 317
Income and Expenditure of the Society. See Accounts.
I., N., Some Mysterious Rappings explained 218
Indian Magic, Instances of 271-273
International Congress of Psychiatry 48
J.
J., MR. AND MRS. E., Case contributed by 118
James, Prof. W., Case collected by 124
,. Definition of the term " Hallucination " 35
Index to Vol. XIII. vii
Jansen, Floris, Recent Experiments in Thought Transference - - 277
Johnson, Miss Alice—
„ On the Arensburg Disturbances - 158
„ „ Automatic Script of Mrs. Holland 98,115,187
„ „ Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Verrall 99-102
„ „ Indications of Telepathy from the Dead 100, 101
„ Recent Sittings for Physical Phenomena in
America 3, 27, 42, 43
„ Reply to a Criticism of the Society in the Occult
Review Ill, 112
„ Research Officer, Appointment as - 98, 1 14, 187
Joire, Dr. P., Experiments to demonstrate a supposed New Force - 44
Jones, LI. T., On Luminous Appearances connected with the Welsh
Revival 40, 41
Jones, Mrs., The Welsh Revivalist, Luminous Appearances connected
with 40, 41
K.
KENNEDY, DR. HARRIS, Case collected by 124
Kuoch, Epidemic of Hallucinations at 317, 318
Krebs, G. W. C., Case contributed by ------ 142
L.
LANQ, ANDREW, Case collected by 27
Levitations, Alleged Phenomena of 4, 7, 8, 42-44
Library Catalogue, Supplementary 223
Local Sections. See Society for Psychical Research.
Lodge, Sir Oliver—
„ „ Address at the Dedication of the Memorial to
F. W. H. Myers at Cheltenham College - - 148
„ „ Address to the Dublin Section of the S.P.R. - - 318
„ „ On Automatism and Possession - 180
„ „ „ Cross-Correspondences 101
„ „ „ Experimental Telepathy 50
„ „ „ Physical Phenomena 6, 7
Loop, Miss M. A., Case contributed by 217
Lovegrove, Mrs., Case confirmed by 253
Luminous Appearances connected with Psychical Phenomena
8, 12, 13, 40, 262
„ „ The " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur - 8
„ „ during the Welsh Revival - - - 12,13,40
M.
M'CAFFREr, MICHAEL, Case of 126
M'Connell, Mr., Evidence as to the "Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur - 10
M'Dougall, W., On the case of "Sally Beauchamp" 20
viii Index to Vol. XIII.
Mai-Observation, Possibilities of, in Psychical Research ... &
Materialisation, Alleged Phenomena of - - - r , 267, 268
Medical Society for the Study of Hypnotism, Formation and
Meetings of 14, 47, 192
Meetings of the Society—
„ Annual General 18, 178
„ General - 1, 20, 27, 65, 83, 161, 180, 190, 209, 225, 243
„ Private—for Members and Associates only 3, 27, 33,
50, 81, 98, 113, 129, 145, 147, 163, 190, 193, 227, 241V
266, 281, 297, 313, 316
Members, Associates, and Honorary and Corresponding Members,
Lists of - 2, 17, 19, 20, 49, 82, 97, 146, 162, 177, 226, 242, 265, 314
Memory, Revivals of. See Crystal Vision and Hypnotism.
Miles, Miss Clarisse, Divining Rod Experiments with 52
„ „ Experiments in Thought-Transference at a
Distance 50, 52, 243
Millner, Le Roy, Case confirmed by 139
Mitchell, T. W., M.D.,
Experiments in the Appreciation of Time by Somnainbules - 83
Review of Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition, by Hereward Carrington 288
Motor Impulse 135
Miinsterberg, Prof. Hugo, Criticism of Prof. Hyslop, Comments on, by
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller 16S
Myers, F. W. H., and Dr. A. T., Enquiry into Christian Science "Cures " 170
„ „ Human Personality, by, Abridged Edition of - - 32
„ „ Memorial to, at Cheltenham College - 148
Myers, L. H., Abridged Edition of Human Personality prepared by - 32
N.
NEW BRUNSWICK. See the " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur.
Nolte, Chas., Case contributed by • 142
O.
OBITUART, E. T. Bennett 324
" Occult Review," The, A Criticism of the Society by - - - - 111
Orcutt, Mrs., Case contributed by 218
Owen, Robert Dale, Account of the Disturbances at Arensburg 31, 128, 144, 169-
P.
P., GUSTAVE, Hypnotic Experiments with 286, 287
Paladino, Eusapia, Alleged Mediumship of- - - - - - 5, 6
Passage of Matter through Matter, Alleged ... 269, 273, 274
Patteson, L. W., Case confirmed by - - - - • - - - 135
Peachell, F. H., Case contributed by 198
Personality, Problems of - 20-23, 164, 165, 180-186, 204
„ Carrington, Hereward, On the Trance State - - - 204
Index to Vol XIII. ix
Personality, Sir Oliver Lodge, On 180
See also The Case of the " Misses Beauchamp."
Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, On the Arensburg Disturbances - 127, 144, 158
„ „ On Hallucination as an Explanation of
Physical Phenomena - 266
„ „ On Sambor's Mediumship - 269, 273, 274, 295, 296
„ „ The " Slate-Writing " of Mrs. Francis - - 293
Physical Phenomena, Miss Alice Johnson on Some Recent Sittings
for, in America 3, 27, 42, 43
„ „ " Automatism " as a possible explanation of - 6, 7
Piddington, J. G., Report on Cross-Correspondence Experiments with
Mrs. Piper - - - 147, 163, 323, 324, 330-333
„ Duratiou of Mrs. Piper's Trances - ... 222
„ On the Relation between Myersp and Rector - - 331
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of
147, 163, 164, 186, 187, 204, 222, 321-324, 330-333
Pittman, Osmond, Case contributed by 256, 261
Pluinmer, Dr. A., On the Visions of Anna K. von Emmerich - 122, 123
Plumtre, Miss, Case contributed by 60
Podmore, Frank, On the Arensburg Disturbances 30
„ Hallucination and Physical Phenomena - - - 272
„ The Naturalisation of the Supernatural, by, Notice of 296
„ On the Case of "Sally Beauchamp"- 20
„ On Recent Experiments in Reichenbach Phenomena 272
„ Review of the Quarterly Report of the Psycho-physical
Laboratory in Amsterdam 277
Poirier, J., On the " Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur 9
Poltergeist Phenomena, Coffins disturbed - - 30-32, 127, 128, 144, 158
„ „ General Disturbances - - 66-79, 156, 157, 194-7
„ „ Connected with "Haunts," Bell-ringing- 156-157
Pool, Mr. and Mrs. W. H., Case contributed by - - - - 140, 141
Portents, Alleged. See The " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur.
Porter, Mrs., Case contributed by 137
Porter, Dr. W. G., Case confirmed by 138
Possession and Automatism, Sir Oliver Lodge, On .... 180
„ Diagrams illustrating Personality • - - 181, 182, 184
Premonitions, Dreams 118,119,142,237,238
„ Impressions 141, 142, 167
Presidency of the Society, Re-election of the Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour - 19
„ „ Election of Mrs. Henry Sidgwick - - 179
Prince, Dr. Morton, On the Case of the "Misses Beauchamp" - - 20, 21
Psychiatry, International Congress of 48
Psycho-physical Laboratory in Amsterdam, Review of the Quarterly
Report of, by F. Podmore 277
Q.
, DR. J. D., Case recorded by ------ 220
x Index to Vol. XIII.
Quimby, Phineas P., Career of, as a Mental Healer - - 174-176, 20O
„ Mrs. Eddy's indebtedness to - 176, 200, 202, 203
Quotations, Information wanted 224
R.
R., T., Case confirmed by 211
Ramsden, Lady, Case confirmed by 245, 248
Ramsden, Miss Hermione—
Experiments in Thought-Transference at a distance - - 50,51,243
Rappings, Some Mysterious, explained 218
Reichenbach Phenomena, Recent Experiments in 272
Remiremont, Alleged Miraculous Hailstones at 316
Renz, Dr. C., Case confirmed by 311
Research Officer—
Appointment of Miss Alice Johnson as ... -98,114,187
Reviews 46, 124, 220, 275, 277, 285, 288
Robertson-Reid, F., Case contributed by 106
Robinson, Avery, Case confirmed by- - - - - - -117
Robinson, E. E., Case contributed by 79
Robinson, Mrs., Case contributed by 116
Russell, Miss Edith, Case contributed by 63
Russell, Miss Eglantine, Case contributed by - - 57, 60-63
Russell, Mrs. See Fletcher, Mrs.
S.
SAGE, M., On the Miraculous Hailstones at Remiremont - - - 316
Sambor, Alleged Mediumship of 269, 273, 274, 295, 296
Savage, The Rev. Dr., Case collected by 234
Say, Thomas, Case recorded by 87
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S., Comments on Prof. Miinsterberg's Criticism of
Prof. Hyslop 163
Self-Suggestion, Cure of Bronchial Affection by 191
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, Election of as Co-Honorary Secretary - - 19
„ „ „ as PresMent (1908) - - - 179
„ „ and Feilding, Hon. E., Increase in the Staff
of the Society 114
„ „ Review of La Psychologie Inconnue, by E. Boirac 285
Sivaslian, Levon S., Case contributed by - - - . - - - 15
" Slate-Writing," Alleged Phenomena of - 293
Smith, H. Arthur, Review of Prof. W. F. Barrett's On the Threshold
of a New World of Thought 275
Society for Psychical Research—
A Criticism of—Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson - - - 111
Articles of Association, A Iterations in 83
Dissolution of the American Branch 23, 26
Growth and Work of 23, 83, 86, 114, 186
Income and Expenditure (1906) 18, 24, 25
Index to Vol. XIII. xi
Society for Psychical Research—
Income and Expenditure (1907) 178, 188
Increase in Staff 114, 187
Local Sections, Report on 163, 243, 263
Report of Council (1906) 23
„ „ (1907) 178, 186
Research Officer, Appointment of Miss Alice Johnson as 98, 114, 187
Research Scholarship Endowment Fund - - 114, 190, 191, 208
Secretary and Editor, Appointment of Mr. R. A. H. Bickford-
Smith as 98, 114, 187
Spirit Identity, Facts pointing to—
A Veridical Phantasm of the Dead 228-234
Telepathy from the Dead, Indications of 99-102
Spiritualism—
Hallucination as an Explanation of Physical Phenomena - - 7, 266
Physical Phenomena (Miscellaneous) - - - 3-7,15,16,27,42,43
See also Levitation, Materialisation, " Slate-Writing," and
Automatic and Trance Phenomena.
St. Elmo's Fire, The 11,12
Stapleton, Mrs., Case collected by 91
Sthenometer, Experiments with—
„ Joire, Dr., on 44
,, Stratton, F. J. M., on 46
„ Heat Radiation as an explanation of the Phenomena - 46
Stigmatisation, Phenomena of 123
Ecstasy during ----- 123
Stratton, F. J. M.—
Experiments with the Sthenometer, Reply to Dr. P. Joire - - 46
Subliminal Consciousness—
See Crystal-Visions, Reminiscent, and Time, Subconscious reckoning of.
Suggestion, Cure by 302
„ „ Self 191
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge, Indications of, in Mediumistic
Messages 124, 211-217
T.
T., L., Case collected by 210
Thome, Albert, Case confirmed by 260
Thorne, Mr. and Mrs. W., Case confirmed by 257, 259
Telepathy, Experimental (at close quarters) - 130, 131, 132, 135, 277-279
„ „ (at a distance) 50, 243-255
„ „ Connected with Alleged Haunts - - 255-262
„ „ Dreams induced 250
Telepathy, Spontaneous—
„ Dreams - 80,118,119,136,140,142,153,282,284,327,328
„ Hallucinations 27,103,108,116,210,234
xii Index to Vol. XIII.
Telepathy, Hallucinations, Collective - 27-29, 103, 108, 21O
„ Impressions 79, 88-90, 120, 121, 130
„ Motor Impulse 135
Titus, Mrs., Case contributed by - - - 124
Time, Appreciation of, in Hypnosis, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on - - - 83
„ Subconscious reckoning of ------- 198
Trance Phenomena (of Mrs. Piper) - - 147, 163, 164, 186, 187, 204, 222
„ „ Cross-Correspondences 147,163
Trance State, Carrington, H., on - - 204
Tuckey, Dr. C. Lloyd, Hypnotism and Suggestion, by. Review of - - 46
„ Time-appreciation in Hypnosis 85
Turner, Captain, On the "Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur- 9
V.
VERAN, MR. AND MRS. J., Case contributed by 156
Verrall, Miss Helen de G., Case contributed by 35
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., Automatic Writings of - - 99, 100, 101, 321, 322
„ „ Cross-Correspondences with "Mrs. Holland"
and others - - - - 99, 101, 163, 321, 322
Vibert, E., Evidence as to the " Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur - - 10
Virgin, The, Alleged Miraculous Appearances of 316, 317
Visser, F. E., Experimental Telepathy with ... - 277-279
Vuillemin, M., Enquiry into the Alleged Miraculous Hailstones at
.Remiremont 316
W.
W., Miss, Case contributed by 282, 283, 327
Wait, Marshall, Case contributed by 136, 138
Wallace, Dr. A. R., On the Arensburg Disturbances - - - - 30, 31
Ward, Professor B. de C., On the Phenomena of St. Elmo's Fire- - 11, 12
Warndorfer, A., A Case of Cure by Suggestion 302
„ Poltergeist Disturbances at Vienna - - - 66, 71, 77
Warren, Miss A., Case confirmed by------- 240
Watts, Mrs. Alaric, Automatic Drawings by, presented to the Society 26
Waud, R., Case confirmed by - - 253,261
Welsh Revival, Luminous Appearances connected with the 8, 12, 13, 40
" Williams, Mrs.," Sittings for Physical Phenomena with - 4, 5, 42, 43
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Thornton, Case contributed by 284
Williamson, Mrs., Case contributed by 191
Wilson, Andrew, On the "Fire Ship" of Bay Chaleur 10
" Wilson, Miss Minnie," Case contributed by 228-34
" Wilson, Mrs.," Case confirmed by 228-34
Wilson, Robert, On the "Fire Ship "of Bay Chaleur - 10
X.
X., JUDGE, Case of 127
Index to Vol. XIII. xiii
Y.
Y., Miss X., Case contributed by
Young, Hon. Robert, On the " Fire Ship " of Bay Chaleur
Z.
Z., Miss V., Case contributed by 311
Zimmerl, Job., Poltergeist Disturbances at the Workshop of - 66-
