{"name":"Thirty Remarkable Nativities","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1789__sibly___thirty_remarkable_nativities.pdf","mytitle":"Thirty Remarkable Nativities","mylang":"de"}
>
*
º
A.
C O L L E C T I O N
Thirty Remarkable Nativities,
T o
I L L U S T R A T E the C A N ON S,
a n d -
P R O V E the T R U E P R IN C I P L E S
o F
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY.
Tranſlated from the LATIN of
PLACID U S D E T IT U.S.
To which is prefixed,
To facilitate Aſtronomical Calculations,
Tables of Right Aſcenſion, Declination, and Aſcenſional Difference;
Tables of Double Horary Times, Semi-diurnal and Noćturnal Arcs;
Sexagenary Tables, and Logiſtical Logarithms; Tables for equating
the Seven Erratics; Table of fixed Stars, &c. &c. -
The whole arranged in a conciſe and regular Method, and exemplified
with ſuitable Matter to elucidate Elementary Agency, and to form
an Adept in the Sideral and Sublime Myſteries.
Beautified and Embelliſhed with
THIRTY-SIX E L E G A N T E N G R AV IN G S,
And the NATIv1ty of that wonderful Phaenomenon,
O L I V E R C R O M W E L L.
T H E WHO L E CARE F U L L Y REVISED
By M. S I B L Y.
Lo N Do N :
Printed by W. JustiNs, Blackfriars; and ſold by Mr. Bew, Pater
noſter Row; Mr. Richardson, under the Royal Exchange;
Mr. MATH Ews, in the Strand; Mr. DEBR ETT, Piccadilly ;
Meſſrs. M. and J. SIB ly, Goſwell-ſtreet; and Mr. EDMun D
Sihly, Brick-lane, Spitalfields.
M. DC C. LXXXIX.
|
|
|
|
|
|
！
|
~
--------
ſ.|
||
，
'ſ,}}}
||||||-
-）į
--
735.
MY,
g// Ano Dom.
r
PTOLE
A.
777
S
z
D IU
/uszum
Ae
(CIL
/3orn at
*
-
----------
：）
-------
==
T H E
E D I TO R's A D D R E S S.
OT ſoaring like Icarus, nor impelled by
the deſire of lucre, but urged by the
force of truth, and impreſſed with eagerneſs
of communicating new light on the veiled
myſteries of divine Urania, has prompted me
to ſtep forward once more, to give a tranſla
tion of the remaining part of that truly valu
able work, PLACIDUS DE TITUS on
ELEMENTARY PHILosophy.
This part contains a literal tranſlation of
Thirty Remarkable Nativities, of ſome of the
moſt eminent charaćters in Europe, gathered
by the Author in his life-time; not picked on
purpoſe to eſtabliſh a falſe theſis, but taken as
* - • A 2 - they
4. T H E E D I To R's A D DR Ess.
A.
they came regularly to his hand; from which
he has proved the validity of thoſe Canons
advanced in the prior part of this work.
The hiſtory of our author informs us, he
was an Italian monk, an inhabitant of Bo
logna ; bleſſed with uncommon genius, of
ſtrong imagination and quick fancy, as well
as a great ſearcher into the abſtruſe ſecrets of
nature: his patient exertion and continued
obſervations, enabled him to preſent to his
country a work in Elementary Philoſophy,
far ſuperior to any then extant.
So curiotis and valuable a treaſure it is
eſteemed in our day, that fifty guineas have
been refuſed for the original copy. -
It is to this book we are beholden for
thoſe many ſhrewd remarks made in two of
the beſt aſtral books in the Engliſh language,
the OPUs REFORMATUM, and DEFECTIO GE-,
NITURARUM, publiſhed by the immortal
Partridge, who was certainly the greateſt
Engliſh profeſſor of this ſcience in the laſt
I century;
T H E E D I To R's A D D R Ess. 5
century; and, though the humble calling of
a journeyman ſhoemaker clouded his younger
days, yet his great ſkill and knowledge in
ſiderial influx, as communicated to elementary
bodies, eminently diſtinguiſhed his later years:
it muſt not therefore appear wonderful, that
he obtained the honour of being phyſician to
his Majeſty William III. From his Opus
Reformatum we have taken the nativity of
that wonderful phaenomenon Oliver CRoM
well ; in which Partridge has followed the
Placidian method, which will ſerve as a praxis
for a regular mode of calculating a nativity:
and, in order to facilitate the reſearches of the
intelligent in theſe ſtudies, we have given
ſeveral aſtronomical tables, flattering ourſelves
they will not prove unacceptable, eſpecially
to thoſe who take nothing upon truſt, but
upon trial; or poſſeſs too great a ſoul to fol.
low the mean pračtice of the envious, who
condemn without examination, and ſheer at
what they are too ſhallow to comprehend.
Surely
w
º T H E E D I TO R 's A D D R E S.S.
Surely nothing can be a greater argument
of the ſtupidity of the age, when men, con
tinually ſurrounded with effects, content them
ſelves in ſupineneſs—in the ignorance of the
cauſe. -
This was not the caſe with our Italian
author: he would often contemplate on na
ture and its properties; and, by his frequent
excurſions into its extenſive garden, like the
induſtrious bee, obtained honey to fill this hive,
as a delicious repaſt for the contemplative.
That theſe ſweets may ſtimulate the lovers
of wiſdom to the ſame ardent deſire of being
ſerviceable to Urania, and prompt a laudable
ambition to promulgate the infallibility of that
ſcience, which is as eaſily demonſtrated to our
ſenſes as any of the rules in the problems of
Euclid, is the wiſh of him, who is not aſhamed
to ſubſcribe to the truth of Elementary Phi
loſophy the name -
M. S I B L Y.
T Q
TO THE
R E A D E R.
THERE is nothing by which man ever
arrived at a more perfeót knowledge of
the ſecrets of nature, than by the immediate
effeót of all things, that is the experience
which the underſtanding diſcovers to us; for
from theſe, it is evident, that they who firſt
directed their ſtudies to philoſophy, have
opened a way to diſcover ſecrets replete with
wonder.
And indeed reaſon, for its excellence, is
better than example; as is the immortal ſoul,
whoſe work it is, than that of corporeal ſenſe:
yet,
& T O T H E R E A D E R.
yet, in a conſequential order, this has the
precedence, and is, as it were, the door and
way to that underſtanding, to which there is
not the leaſt acceſs, unleſs tranſmitted through
thoſe ſenſes. Further, whatever, by the light
of reaſon, man's comprehenſion, or invention,
may be of the powers of the ſtars and their
manner of influencing the inferior elementary
and compound bodies, beginning from the
chief principies and cauſe, properties, paſ
ſions, motions, and other active qualities, if
experience does not make it plain, is juſtly
and deſervedly condemned and rejećted as
falſe; for reaſon always is my guide in every
one of them, From the actions of the moſt
eminent men in phyſic and mathematics, I have
ſufficiently enlarged elſewhere; and thence, by
way of theory, I have transferred hither a
few theſes the moſt conciſe. But as there
are ſome who refuſe to follow reaſon and the
moſt enlightened authors for their guides, I
was unwilling to make any diſtinétion be
tween this part of philoſophy and experi
ence; that they who will liſten to reaſon and
the underſtanding, might, by the help of the
ſenſes,
T O T H E R E A D E R. 9
ſenſes, and, to uſe the expreſſion, with their
hands, attain to and comprehend the method
I have taken : for which reaſon, it ſeemed
good to me in this place to ſubjoin thirty
Nativities of the moſt famous men, truly wor
thy of admiration; and that no one might
condemn them, either as falſe or ſelected, in
preference to any caſually taken to ſuit my
purpoſe, I have extraćted them from the moſt
approved authors, and ſuch only, wherein not
the horoſcope, which may, with a ſmall varia
tion of time, be very eaſily adapted to the
aſpects of the ſtars, but the luminaries become
the moderators of life; which, as they always
continue in the ſame place in the zodiac, not
withſtanding the times of the nativities are
remote, i thought proper to diſpoſe theſe with
the calculations of the aſpečts and direétion,
in the order they might beſt ſuit.
Now then, my very courteous reader, if
you look for any virtue, or true and na
tural wiſdom from the ſtars, theſe examples
given, whenever from the natural effects con
tained in them, you find any calculations for
B directions
ro T O T H E R E A D E R.
direétions more agreeable to time and nature,
be ſo kind as to publiſh and point out my er
‘rors; by ſo doing, you will oblige me greatly,
as in every thing I deſire nothing but plain
and ſimple truth; but if, after all, you can
not find any, confeſs ingenuouſly, that my
opinion concerning this heavenly ſcience is
right, and my way of calculating true, the
method univerſal, and heſitate no longer in
confirming it is ſo. But in theſe examples,
very great care is to be obſerved : Firſt,
That the luminaries preſide over things ſub
jećted, not only by that one motion of the
direction, which above the zodiac is made
agreeable to the ſucceſſion of the ſigns, accord
ing to the method uſually followed by all
profeſſors, but by both, viz. the right and
converſe.
2. That the ſame aſpect and method of
calculating may be found in more of the like,
when alledged as proofs, is the greateſt evi
dence of the truth of the matter; for it might
be argued, that one example would perhaps
only agree. .
3. That
T. O. T H E R E A D E. R. I r
3. That my direétions are adapted to the
nature of things; as, for example, I do not
take the dignities from the horoſcope, but,
from the Sun and medium cali, according to
Ptolemy and others.
4. I have not taken remarkable effečts
from the fixed ſtars, as many do, and truly
without foundation, but from the erratics;
though the ſtars fixed, ſpecify and afford ſome
little aſſiſtance to the power of the erratics.
5. In all theſe examples, the proportion I
have found of the arc of direction correſponds
with the years of an age.
6. I have not varied the time of the nativi
ties to make the calculations of the direétions
agree ; but if in any example I have made a
little alteration, it is very ſmall, and ſcarce
makes any difference on the arc of direction
of the luminaries, whether direét or converſe,
except only in the mundane parallels. How
ever, from this ſmall alteration, it may be in
ferred, that either on that account the time is
reduced to a true one, or, at leaſt, that the di
B 2 rečtions
+2. T O T H E R E A D E. R.
rećtions of the parallels in the world were
not far diſtant, and might, notwithſtanding,
have been of very good uſe, though there
were no change of time in the nativity; for
every direétion cauſes an alteration in bodies;
but the full effečt plainly appears, by means
of the powerful directions which arrive firſt,
and the ſubſequent aſſiſt more or leſs, ac
cording as the proximity of the application
or virtual influx is greater or leſs: but no
credit is to be given to the time of thoſe na
tivities, in which authors have adopted the
horoſcope for the giver of life, where the
luminaries, &c. ought to have been takó;
for we may reaſonably conclude, that wheſthe
ſaid authors have not found their direétions of
that luminary to which undoubtedly belonged
the power of life, to agree with the effects,
they have made a conſiderable alteration in the
appointed time of the nativity, in order that
they might bring down the horoſcope to any
aſpect of the planets. I can affirm what I
have ſaid to be true, for in my youth I ſaw
ſeveral nativities, afterwards publiſhed by the
authors, wherein was a viſible alteration in
- - - the
To T H E R E A D E. R. 13
the time, and the reaſon why was, that they
might anſwer the above end. -
7. In theſe examples, you will plainly ſee,
that I have always taken the moderator of
life by the rules of Ptolemy: as in the day,
firſt, the Sun, if he goes round the aphetic
place, then the Moon, &c.; but in the night,
the Moon, &c.
8. You are to obſerve, that if another lu
minary, being the ſignificator of life, is found
in nativities with an hoſtile ray in the zo
diac, though the application of any malig
nant planet ſtrong in power, the ſame is weak,
for its virtues are but ſmall, as a prorogation
in the ſame zodiac, but ſtronger through the
other motions and aſpećts, for then the mo
deration in the zodiac ſeems in a manner ſe
parated; and in the ſame manner ought we to
reaſon in the other motions; for if, laſtly,
according to all motions, and every ſpecies
of aſpećt, the ſignificator of life is aſpected
by the rays of the unfortunate planets, the
native, according to Ptolemy, will not fur
vive, eſpecially if the fortunate afford no
- aſſiſtance,
14 To T H E R E A D E R.
aſſiſtance, &c, yet each direčtion muſt always
be conſulted and calculated, agreeably to the
two kinds of aſpects.
9. You may know that thoſe nativities are
ſtronger, when another luminary becomes
the ſignificator, by means of the duplicate
motion of the prorogation, which does not
happen when the horoſcope of the country is
the giver of life, for it only performs in a
right motion, and not converſe.
Io. You are to obſerve, what is generally
alledged by profeſſors, reſpe&ting the lumi
nary, inſtead of the dignities of the ſatellites,
viz. that the ſatellites of a planet come within
30° of the proximity found on either ſide to
wards the luminaries; but a ſatellite is no
thing but a kind of aſpect of the ſtars to the
luminaries of what kind ſoever, which, if it
be made by application, its power extends
inwardly over the whole orb of light of the
aſpecting planet, , and the more ſo, as the
proximity is greater, but by ſeparation it is
not ſo. This doćtrine may be ſeen in ſeveral
chapters of Ptolemy; for an aſpecting ſtar in
* - - fluences
To T H E R E A D E. R. is
fluences the ſignificator, and diſpoſes him to
produce effects co-natural to him, by a ſub
ſequent direction. But a ſtar of no aſpect
does not prediſpoſe the fignificator, and pro
duces very little or no effect of its nature by a
ſubſequent direction; this is the true doćtrine
of the ſtars. - . . .
I 1. That in theſe examples, as to the time
of death, I have obſerved the moſt powerful
direčtions of them all, and afterwards I give
a reaſon why the antecedents that are paſt are
not anaretical, from which it is evident, that
the directions whereof I now give the calcu
lations were the true anaretic cauſes.
12. There is no truth in what ſome ſay,
viz. that as I invented the mundane aſpects,
it is no wonder if any aſpect may agree with
the times of the effects in thoſe examples, as
well among the ſtars as to the angles; but
I afterwards rejected the aſpects in the zodiac,
and all the anteſcions to the angles alſo. I do
not direct the fignificators to the cuſps of the
houſes, nor to the 2, 3, or to the fixed ſtars,
as having of themſelves a power to kill. I
do
16 To T H E R E A D E R.
do not direét the planets h, ı, 3, 7, 8, as if
they were ſignificators, which is the practice
of ſeveral profeſſors. Maginus has fully de
ſcribed the rays in the equator; others, be
fides the rays, which the ingenious Kepler
thought to be efficacious, add the ſemi-ſex
tile and ſeſqui-quadrate. Wherefore, if you
carefully obſerve, you will doubtleſs perceive
I have produced leſs aſpects than other
authors. -
13. If you are deſirous to ſee of what im
portance the ſecondary direétions are to
diſcern the particular times of effects, and
alſo the progreſſions, as I have calculated
the ingreſſes and tranſits, both ačtive and paſ
five, and the equal proceſſes, according to
the uſual and general way, how idle and
empty in effect they are, I will leave to your
ſelf to confider, as I would not ſpend time
to no purpoſe to calculate them.
14. The revolution, as taught by ſome, I
have not ſeen, though in reality they may
poſſeſs ſome virtue, but only according to the
conſtitution of the ſtars to the places of the
prorogator
T O T H E R E A D E R. t!
prorogator of the nativity, &c. their places of
direétion, but no farther, as Ptolemy was of
opinion, and briefly expreſſes himſelf in his
Chapter of Life. Thoſe who are afflićted
both in the places and concluſions of the years,
by the revolution of the ſtars infeóting the
principal places, have reaſon to expect a cer
tain death; therefore, let any one, if he
pleaſes, obſerve the return of the years, but
at the ſame time, let him not place ſo great
a value on them, as ſome authors uſually do;
who, from the conſtitution of the ſtars, judge
of the Sun's return in the ſame manner as of the
nativity; ſo that they are not afraid to diſſent
from the ſame, nor even in that from the
direétions.
15. And note, that when I ſpeak of dig
nities and promotions, I am to be underſtood
in a natural way, as I have made mention
elſewhere, in ſuch a manner, that men may
endeavour to render themſelves capable and
worthy of mental accompliſhments, as well
as of the other virtues, and not by any means
that thoſe who are at liberty to act as they
pleaſe ſhould be compelled to, and as it
- C Were
13 T O T H E R E A D E R.
were puſhed upon, advancement; for I am
wholly of opinion, that every, man is the
author of his own fortune, next, however, to
the divine decree, according to that of the
prophet, “My lot is in thine hand.”
Laſtly, if, in the calculations of the direc
tions, you find any difference of minutes from
the time of the effects; this, however, I am
certain, will always be very ſmall. Remem
ber, firſt, that the places of the ſtars are not
perfeótly known to us in the producing ef
feets; ſeveral motions of the ſtars concur to
prevent a true calculation of the ſecondary
direétions of the proceſs, ingreſs, tranſit, lu
nation, &c. -
PLACIDUS DE TITUS.
of
O F T H E
P A R T OF F O R T UN E.
YX7 HEN this Work was finiſhed, the very
illuſtrious D. ADRIAN NEG USANTIUs,
of Fanum, a man very well verſed in Aſtrology,
and indeed according to the true doćtrine of Pto
lemy, but alſo in Phyſics and the ſublime ſecrets
of Nature, tranſmitted to me a method to calculate
the B perfeótly agreeable to reaſon and experi
ence. I thought proper to ſet it down here, word
for word, that every one might ſee a ſecret in this
art, invented by ſo great a man, truly worthy the
pen of the greateſt Aſtrologers; for 1 willingly
confeſs, that with regard to the GB I have laboured
a long time, and have not been able hitherto to
find any truth in it.
“ The B (ſays he) if we may credit Ptolemy,
who aſſerts that it has the ſame poſition to the D
as the O to the horizon, (Quadripart. Book III.
Chap. xii.) it ought to be deſcribed and defined
in the lunar parallels; for neither if it be conſti
tuted in the ecliptic, according to the intentions
of vulgar Aſtrologers, or in the D's orbit, as was
once the opinion of a very eminent profeſſor of true
judicial Aſtrology, it will be found to preſerve that
- C 2 order
20 OF THE PART OF FOR T UN E.
order of likeneſs which the reſpective converſions
of two luminaries, both diurnal and annual, de
note.” This man ſubſcribes to the truth of every
thing I lately mentioned in my Philoſophy of the
Heavens, wherein I ſaid that the GB moves above
the orbit or way of the D's latitude, and therefore
above the zodiac.
But as I have ſhewn that the diſtance and rays
for the Cardinal Signs are by no means made above
the zodiac, but above the parallel of every ſtar,
he argues, and indeed very ingeniouſly, yet the
G) in like manner is elongated from the Eaſt, viz.
above his parallel; and in like manner the D,
who, as not by her real preſence poſited the (B,
by any other method nor way different from the
place of (P; for no other difference is ſeen to con
ſtitute this part in nature, unleſs by ſuch an aſ
ſignation and impreſſion of virtue, exhibiting by
the D in the Eaſtern G). When this man adds,
“For when the o comes to the Cardinal Sign of .
the Eaſt, then it is neceſſary the D be found in its
horizon afterwards in an equal ſpace of time : the
O digreſſing, he muſt be removed from her ac
cording to his aſcenſion; wherefore, if we ſtudy
the matter with accuracy, we ſhall find, that the
o, entirely in the ſame manner as he departs from
the Eaſt, the D is likewiſe ſeparated from the GP,
yet is both above its parallel, ſo that as many parts
as the O from his parallel circle is elongated from
the Eaſt, ſo many is the D from her parallel diſ
tallt
O F THE PART OF F O R T UN E. 2 I
tant from the (B : whence it follows, that the true
place of 4 does not always remain in the zodiac,
but always under the D's parallel circle, that
is, with the D's declination the ſame both in
number and name, and therefore the B does not
receive aſpects from the ſtars above the zodiac, but
only in the world. We may make a calculation
of the B ſeveral ways, but it will be ſhorter and
eaſier if, in the diurnal geniture, the O’s true diſ
tance from the Eaſt is added to the D's right aſ
cenſion, and in the noćturnal, ſubſtraćted for the
number thence ariſing, will be the place and the
right aſcenſion of (P: it always having the ſame
declination with the , may be found at any time,
both in number and country. Again, let the O’s
oblique aſcenſion, taken in the horoſcope, be ſub
ſtraćted always from the horoſcope's oblique aſ
cenſion, as well in the day as in the night, and the
remaining difference is to be added to the Y’s
right aſcenſion, which ſum will be the right aſ
cenſion of €9, which will have the D's declination.
There are likewiſe other methods to take the place
of GB : he who has a mind to make its directions,
will accompliſh it only by two motions in the
world, that is, to the aſpects in the world; and
indeed they prove that the converſions of both the
luminaries agitates the B by the two motions,
ſince if the luminaries are carried together by the
motions of the primum mobile, then the GB re
maining immoveable in its horary circle of poſi
tion,
22, OF THE PART OF FOR TU N E.
*
tion, waiting for the coming and rays of the op
poſite ſtars, will be directed by a right motion,
and the GB will be devolved by a converſe mo
tion rapidly to the bodies and rays of the pro
miſſories: if the Q be conſtituted immoveable, and
the preceding as uſual, it may very reaſonably
be doubted whether the @ inſtitutes the direction's
converſe motion; however, I omit ſpeaking of
this till another time, mean while l will ſee what
experience ſays. This is worth obſerving, that if
GB does not conſiſt in the zodiac, it is nevertheleſs
direčted to the parallels of the ſtars in the primum
mobile, together with the D, whoſe declination it is
known to follow, and which they vary continually
and ſucceſſively in an equal motion; therefore,
when the D comes to the declination of any ſtar,
ſhe produces double effect, according to the proper
ſignification ofevery one portended in thegenitures,
becauſe ſhe then falls together with (P on the pa
rallel of the ſame ſtar: an invention truly ingeni
ous; for as the O, by his motion in the zodiac,
ſucceſſively changes the parallel, and therefore that
relative point of his riſing in the horoſcope, and the
> , whilſt ſhe by a right direction luſtrates the
zodiac, and varies the parallels, ſeems therefore of
conſequence to draw to her declination the point
of exiſtence of Gº. All theſe things, however, I
confeſs muſt be confirmed by examples and experi
ence.” w
And
OF THE PART OF FORTUNE, 23
»
And as the ſame Neguſantius tranſmitted to me
ſome things which he found relating to this in the
Commentaries of George Valla, on the Quadri
part. I therefore ſubjoin the following.
“But that the P (ſays Valla) is the noćturnal
and lunar horoſcopes, is manifeſt from what Pto
lemy ſays; for the D will have the ſame ratio of
parts to the parts of Fortune, and the ſame figu
ration as the G) has to the horoſcope: and that
every one may know that this figuration and ratio
of the diſtance of the luminaries muſt be taken in
their parallels (of the luminaries), he adds, it will
be likewiſe plainer ſtill if we follow the ſame me
thod by the Canons as in the horoſcope; for it
will be found again, that the horoſcope is the Part
of Fortune, for indućting a part of the D in the
diurnal nativities; and in the noćturnal, by taking
the aſcenſionary times by the oppoſites, we multi
ply the hours, and compound the given number
with the aſcenſion; look in their climates, where
the number falls, and there we ſay is the lunar
horoſcope.” The aſcenſionary times and hours are
nothing but the times of the parallels, whereon the
luminaries are moved by an univerſal motion, and
they form the diſtance from the Cardinal Signs and
Houſes, and conſequently they are configurations,
as I have already demonſtrated in the Philoſophy
of the Heavens. And the climates are diſtin
guiſhed by parallels to the equator, as has been
obſerved; therefore they are taken by this author
- for
24. OF THE PART OF FOR T UN E.
for the parallels, which he explains in theſe words:
“ In like manner we ſhall find, from a mean mea
ſurement of the G) to the D , that whatever ratio
and figuration the O has to the eaſtern horizon,
the ſame has the D to B ; for indeed the lumi
naries, and all the ſtars, form no other diſtance
from the horoſcope and the houſes, except upon
every one of their parallels, and as has been ſaid by
the horary and aſcenſionary times. Ptolemy ſpeaks.
expreſsly of this in the Chapter of Life, whence
Valla reaſonably infers, the figuration of GB to
the D , taken in the ſame manner, will be the ſame
as the horoſcope to the o, and, on the contrary,
whatever figuration the G) is to the horoſcope, the
ſame will be that of the D to (B. In like man
ner, and with reaſon, both will be the ſame as the
other, that is, as many parts as the O was diſtant
from the horoſcope, ſo many was the D from (P,
viz. always above their parallels, and by the aſ
cenſory times in them.” To prevent any one ſup
poſing this doćtrine fićtitious and void of experi
ence, and that the method of calculating might
not be obſcured, I have placed the Part of For
tune according to this method in the following
Nativities.
Thirty
Thirty Remarkable Nativities, &c.
Shall begin by drawing my examples from
I the chiefeſt Families in Europe; and in
them, by way of conciſeneſs, only regard impor
tant accidents.
C AF S A R C H A R T , F. S. V.
EMPEROR OF GERMANY.
H E lived fifty-eight years, ſeven months; and
died on the 21ſt of September, 1558.
y ad a proprium in zodiac. 55°.
> ad D ditto in Mundo, 55° 33.
D ad 3 H , converſe direétion 5° (a).
The Moon is hyleg; her pole is 52, oblique
aſcenſion 314.52, tº or 6° 45'; the Moon's lati
tude is 4° 32' S, ; the oblique aſcenſion of that
place by longitude and latitude is 9° 52'; from
which ſubſtraćt the Moon's oblique aſcenſion,
and there remains the arc of direétion 55°.
(a) Canon XXXV.
T) The
26 R E M A R K A B L E N A T I VI TI E S.
The D to her own D in the world, is thus
wrought : By this direétion the two prorogatory
virtues of life are injured, viz. that in the pri
mum mobile, and that in the world; for this is
direéted by a direct motion, and that by a con
verſe (b). The 's ſemi-no&turnal arc is 127.27,
her diſtance from the horoſcope is 4° 52', ſemi
diurnal arc 52.33, from which, from the fourth
number, ariſes the Moon's ſecondary diſtance from
the medium carli 2° o': This ſubſtraćted from the
primary, which is 57.33, there remains the direc
tion arc 55.33 (c).
To the 8 of h (d) by a converſe motion (e)
the difiance of h from the imum cali is 5.43, for
his right aſcenſion is 45.43; the pole's elevation
of the fifth and eleventh is 24°, the ſemi-nocturnal
arc of H is 69°37', the third part thereof 23, 13,
of which the pole's elevation of h is nearly 6° to
this pole (f), the oblique aſcenſion of the oppoſite
place of Q is 227° 21', and the D's oblique aſcen
tion there is 280° 19 ; from which ſubſtraćt that
of the oppoſite of H, , leaves the direction's arc
52° 58' for the equation.
To take the years, I add this arc 52° 58' to the
©'s right aſcenſion, which is 345° 44', and I make
the ſum 38.42, anſwering to 11° lo of 8, at which
the ſun, from the day and hour of the nativity (g),
(b) ) ad D proprium, (c) Canon XXXII. (d) ) 8 h ..
(e) Canon XII, (f) Canon VII. (g) Canon XVI. “
arrives
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I T 1 E. S. 27
arrives in 58 days, which denotes ſo many years ;
but it muſt be obſerved, that the converſe direc
tions did not wait for the other two by a right
motion, as by it the D in the nativity, applied to
the D of the infortunes in the world, and to the
ſeſqui-quadrate of 3 in the zodiac; ſo that the
ſignificator of life appeared ſtronger and more for
tunate by a converſe motion: for though the p
was favored by the # of $ in the zodiac, the
unfortunate prevailed, as being more numerous
and in the angles (h). -
In the 41ſt year of his age, when, after a ſeries
of ſucceſſes, Fortune turned her back upon him ;
he ſuffered a very great loſs of his fleet and army,
by a tempeſt near the coaſt of Africa: The D ar
rived at the parallel of 3 in the world, whilſt both
a converſe motion of the primum mobile were in vio
lent motion round the world, for they happened to
be poſited equally diſtant from the horoſcope. The
D’s (i) ſemi-diurnal arc is 52°32', the ſemi-diurnal
arc of 3 & 62° 27'; therefore, as the ſum of the
ſemi-diurnal arc I I 5 o is to the D's ſemi-diurnal
arc 52.33, ſo is the diſtance between & 3 and
the D in right aſcenſion 45.25 to the D's fe
condary diſtance from the medium caeli 20.45,
which, ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves the arc
- (h) D par. 3 in Mundo, Mot, Rapt.
(i) Rapt Motion. -
- T) 2 of
28 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I T I E S.
of direction 36.43, which, being equated, gives
41 years. -
In his 19th year, when he was choſen emperor,
the Y had arrived at the cuſp of the 12th, and 2
at the ſecond ; therefore the medium caeli (#) was
directed to the k of the D and A of Q , and they
were both in parallel by rapt motion: the alſo
(l) to the k of Q in zodiac, near 26° ºf, and her
(m) quintile in the world by converſe motion. But
the moſt important was, the O to parallel of n! in
zodiac (n), near of 20°, where he acquires the ſame
declination as iſ ; the O's crepuſcule arc Ib. 58.
his ſemi-noëturnal arc 6h. 32. the obſcure arc is
4h. 34. The crepuſculine arc of ºr 25° is 2.18.
its ſemi-nocturnal arc is 5.9, the obſcure arc is
2.51. The @'s diſtance from the imum call is
54, 16; wherefore, as the Q's obſcure arc 4". 34.
is to his diſtance 54° 16', ſo is the obſcure arc of
25 ºr 2b. 51. to his ſecondary diſtance ºf 32° 22';
from which ſubſtraćting the primary diſtance of
or 25, remains the arc of direétion 17° 31', which
equated, gives 19 years. To the 58 years add ſe
ven months nearly. I thus calculate the ſecond
dire&tion : To the days and hours of the nativity
(k) Medium caeli to the Sextile of the Moon. Medium cali
to the Trime of Venus. (l) The Moon to the Sextile of
Venus in zodiac. (m) The Moon to the Quintile in
Mundo, Motion Rapt. (n) The Sun to parallel of Ju
piter in zodiac. -
- I add
R E M A R K A E L E N A T : V I T : E S. 29
I add 58 days for the ſame number of years, and
14 hours for the ſeven months, and I come to the
22d day of April of the ſame year 1500, with
5h. 39m. P. M. In the ſecondary direétion the
pianets are in the following poſition :
-
| | . {
G) | H h! | 3 || 2 || 3 | } Q
Deg. | 8 || 8 || 3 || II | II | 8 || >{ | II
of - -
Long- || 1 1.36 24. 11 || 20.28 29, 19 |8. 4 5 45, 4 o 9.8
N. N.
N. N. N N.
I . I .23| 5.o
Lat. 1.46 2 o. 38 o.22
-
When the X was in the 4th degree of x, lat.
South, by which ſhe had the declination 14.44;
the ſame with H, as well here as in the nativity;
and laſtly, on the day of death, wherein 3 was in
the 4th degree of "g, in the 8, that is, partile to
this place. The o, on the ſecondary direction,
on the 22d day of April, was in 12° of 8, in the
parallel of h’s declination there from the nativity
and death. The O, on the day of death, from the
g, entered the place of the direction of the D's [.
in the zodiac; and, two days before he died, there
happened to be a lunation of the Y's D with the
c) in thoſe obnoxious places. On the day of his
leath, the Moon was in the laſt degree of ºf, with
the latitude ſouthern, whereby ſhe was poſited in
the
$o R E M A R K A B L E N A T I V I T 1 E. S.
the ſame parallel of declination 3 was in, on the
22d day of April, of the ſecondary direction; there
fore, there was a mutual permutation of aſpect be
tween the Moon and Mars, viz. an active and paſſive
ingreſs to theſe motions in the day of death; and,
what is ſurpriſing, the calculation was exactly true.
The places of the planets, on the day he died, which
was the 21ſt of September 1558, are as follow :
•
Deg. c. ºf 3
of 1– -- - -
Y.On. 7.31, 29.29 24-31 |2. 44.28 29.25 17.23 || 19.2o
+
3. º § 83
- S. S. S. N. N.
Lat 4.55 2.34 |o. 51 |o.24 o. o o.42
The manner I look for the proceſs for the ſame
year is thus: For full 48 years, 48 emboliſmic
Junations are finiſhed, after the four years follow
ing the nativity, yet leſs than 44, that is, 1 1 x 4,
for we have ſaid in its Canon, that the Moon fi
niſheth 12 emboliſmic lunations in 11 days leſs
than a whole year; wherefore, from the 23d Fe
bruary, 1504, ſubſtraćting 44 days, we go back to
the 10th January, when the Moon, from the 22d
degree of m, is poſited in the diſtance ſhe is from the
Sun at the nativity, viz. of 68 parts: then the
proceſs is finiſhed for full 48 years, for then the
other
R. E M A. R. K. A E L E N A T I V I T H E S. 3
other 10 years paſs over the other Io emboliſmic
lunations, and I come to the 31ſt of Oétober of the
ſame year 1504, when the Moon was in 10 de
grees of p, and the Sun in 18 degrees of m. That
we may preſerve their diſtance from each other at
the nativity for the ſix remaining months, add 27
days; i. e. to the day of his death I add to this
place of the Moon ſix ſigns, and 15 degrees for the
ſix months, and 29° 30' for the 27 days, and I
come to the 24° 30' of Y', wherein the Moon is
poſited on the 18th of November. In the pro
greſſions the planets are thus poſited :
^{ & §
- I -
o
Deg. f. +H: Śl f f f : X
... [...]
-
|
|Lon. 24.30 3.26; 16. I 5 14.15 13.4o 22.44 |Io. 39
N. : N. S. N. S.
Lat. | o. 1 1 ſo.4ol o. 2 o. 9 o.40
z
The Sun was in ſix degrees of f with 3, en
tered by a quadrate ray, on the day of death : the
Moon had paſſed the place of her direétion in the
zodiac; but when ſhe was arrived at 25 degrees
of ºr, ſhe ſtruck upon by ingreſs on the day of
death the parallel of 3 's declination, and entered
on the fatal day from the D ; from the 24th degree
of ºf, this place of her progreſſion, the Moon alſo
applied
32. R E M A. R. K. A E L E N A T L V P T H E S.
applied in proportion to the H of H. The moſt
noble ſatellite in this Nativity is to the Moon the
conditionary luminary on I, from the k on 3.
from the Quintile to the medium caeli, from nº
and from the Sun on the A, from ? on the Bi
quintile to the G), from iſ and g in the power,
from H and 3 cm the Sextile.
F R A N C IS
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I V I T I E S. 33
F R A N C I S T H E F I R S T,
K I N G of FR A N ce.
H IS King, in a ſtout engagement with a
large body of the enemy, at the river Po, in
Italy, ſuffered a very great overthrow, his gene
ral and valiant armies being all ſlain, and he
himſelf wounded and taken priſoner by the ſol
diers of the Emperor Charles V. This was in the
year 1525, on the 24th of February, when he was
30 years and five months old; at which time the
Sun, who is the ſignificator of glory, liberty, and
power, came, by a right direétion, to the mundane,
parallel (o) of Ł , and alſo to the parallel declina
tion of 3 , and, by a converſe motion, was ſub
ſtituted as near as poſſible to the Moon's diameter,
or 3 and mundane parallel of P.
To the parallel of the declination of Mars the
calculation is as follows; and there is an argu
ment in the time of the direétion, when the Sun
arrives 6° m, when he has the declination 13° 34,
and the declination of Mars 14° 12', for this rea
ſon, either becauſe the true place of Mars is want
ing a few minutes, which made the declination of
(o) The Sun to parallel of Saturn and Mars.
E. Mars
34 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I T I E S.
Mars leſſer, as the luminaries, by reaſon of
the magnitude of their bodies, begin to touch at a
parallel of their declination, before they arrive at
it by the center of their bodies; or, laſtly, that
they have already reached the times of the other
direétions: be it as it will, the Sun was conjoined
as near as could be to the declination of 3 ; it
might be likewiſe, that the ſecondary direétions
and powerful ingreſſes may have made the effect
appear a little before the exact application of the
primary direction.
Of the Sun.
The ſemi-nočturnal arc - - -
Crepuſculine arc - - - -
Obſcure arc • * * - - -
Right aſcenſion - - - - -
Diſtance of imum cali - - - -
Of the 6th degree of m.
Semi-noëturnal arc (p) - -
Crepuſculine arc - - - -
Obſcure arc - - - - - -
Right aſcenſion - - - - -
Primary diſtance from imum - -
wherefore, as O’s obſcure arc -
is to his ſecondary diſt. -
ſo is the obſ, arc of m 6°
to its ſecondary diſt. -
H
5
I
4.
8
17
2O
:
213
2O
26
. M.
7
5o
7
46
58
5o
I 2
4O
52
58
12
29
(p) Canon XXI,
which
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I W IT I E S. 35
which being ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves
the arc direétion 29° 23'.
The Sun's direétion to the parallel of h, by di
rečt motion is thus calculated (q) : . M.
As the O’s ſemi-noëturnal arc - - 5 57
is to its diſtance from imum - - 26 29*
ſo is H 's ſemi-diurnal arc - - - 5 16
to his ſecond. diſt. from medium caeli 23 47
which added to the primary, , becauſe H, paſſes
from the aſcendant part of heaven, which is 4° 56',
give the arc direétion 28°43'; to equate which I
add to it the O's right aſcenſion, and it makes
207° 29– 29° 30' ze, to which the o, from the
day and hour of nativity, arrives in 31 days, an
ſwering to ſo many years.
The next is the O parallel to J. Mundo, con
verſe dire&tion (r).
H. M.
Thus, as h’s ſemi-diurnal arc - - 5 16
is to his diſt. from medium caeli 4 56
ſo is the 6's ſemi-noćturnal arc 5 57
to the O’s ſecondary diſt. – 5 35
(s) which, added to the primary 20° 58', makes
the direétion's arc 26° 33', ſo that this direétion had
preceded two years and ſome months before.
(7) Canon XXXVI. * 26 deg. 29 min. which the
Sun requires after the direétion is finiſhed, at which time,
as we have ſaid, he goes round the ſixth part of Scorpio.
(r) The Sun parallel to Saturn's converſe direction.
(3) Canon XXXVII.
E 2 It
36 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N A T IV. I T I E. S.
It is eaſy to calculate the o’s (t) converſe di
rećtion to the 8 of the D, whereby he applied alſo
to the 3 of 3 : the D’s declination is Idº. 2' to
× 40 in the ecliptic, whoſe horary times 13° 7',
and duplicate, are 26° 14, the D's right aſcenſion
328° 50', which ſubſtraćted from the right aſcen
ſion of medium caeli, leaves the D's diſtance 8° 58':
the polar elevation of 9th he is 21°; therefore,
As the double horary times (u) - 26° 14'
is to the polar elevation 9th houſe - 21 o
ſo is the D's diſtance - - - - 8 58
to the D's pole - - - - - - 7 o
under which the oblique aſcenſion of the D’s 8 is
147° 36', but of the o 178° 42', from which ſub
ſtraćting that of the D , leaves the arc of direction
31° 6', ſo that the G) and ) were as nearly oppo
fite as poſſible.
1 look for the ſecondary direétions thus: To the
day and hour of the nativity I add 30 days and 10
hours for the 30 years and five months, and I come
to the 12th of Oétober with 20 26' P. M. when the
o was in a 29°, in exact parallel of h’s declination,
when in × 7°, with latitude 2° 10' South, 3 had
arrived at ng II", to wit, the diameter of the me
dium cali of the nativity, the D in ºn 8 degrees.
On the 22d of February 1525 there happened a re
markable new ), in × 13°, in which the three
(1) Sun's converſe direction to the oppoſition of the
Moon. (u) Canon XXX.
ſuperiors,
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v IT I E s. 37
ſuperiors, by an exact calculation, had the ſame
declination, and, for this reaſon, were in parallel,
and the luminaries applied to their declination
nearly. Theſe aſpects of the ſtars uſually are the
cauſes of very grievous wars, and this new D was
celebrated above H of his nativity, and then H ap
plied to the 8 of the G) of the nativity, and place
of the D’s direction. This new Moon likewiſe
happened in the 8 of f of the progreſſions, and,
by the ingreſs of 3 from ~ 22°, had its morning
ſtation nearly above the place of the ſecondary di
rečtion of the G), and in the D’s declination.
On the 24th of February the D was found above
the ſame of ºr 9° of its ſecondary dire&tion, under
the parallel of 3 ; in the ſame place the D alſo was
in the parallel of n!, but could be of no ſervice, as
not being conjoined to the places as well of the
root as the direétions : yet ſhe delivered from a
more grievous calamity, which, from the conſti
tution of the nativity, was denoted to be extremely
unfortunate, for the D, the conditionary luminary,
was in the parallel of the declination of b, and in
his mundane parallel; but what is worſe, is H be
ing in the center of the cardinal houſe, and the X
cadent in the 9th, from which b was very ſtrongly
elevated above it, and moreover as the unfortunate
direétions were, as has been obſerved, at that time
powerful, iſ afforded no ſmall aſſiſtance. -
The king died in the year 1547, in the month
of April, from the D's direétion, the ſignificator
cf
33 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I TI E S.
life, to the (w) 8 of 8, ſucceeding to the paral
lel of the declination of H, , for ; was of the na
ture of h, on account of the parallel of the alter
nate declination, and by reaſon of the ſign ze, and
had ſomething of 3 , becauſe of the Sextile. The
oblique aſcenſion of 8 to the pole of the N 7°, is
198° 4', from which ſubſtraćting the y's oblique
aſcenſion there taken, 1.47° 36', there remains the
arc of declination 50° 28′, which from the equa
tion I add to the G)'s right aſcenſion, and I make
the ſum 229° 14' = 21° 20' of m, at which the o,
from the day and hour of the nativity, arrives in
52 days 16 hours, which denotes 52 years 8 months.
By a converſe direction, the D had deſcenſion to
the O's D :
s H. M.
As the O's ſemi-no&urnal arc – 5 57
is to the O’s diſt. from imum cali 20° 58'
ſo is the D's ſemi-noëturnal arc 5 15
to the ſecondary diſtance - - 18 go.
The oblique aſcenſion of the D's oppoſite in the
horoſcope is 137° 30', from which ſubſtraćting the
horoſcope's oblique aſcenſion, there remains the
D’s primary diſtance from the Weſt 69°42'; the
£econdary ſubſtraćted from this, leaves the arc of
direction 51° 12', greater by 44 than that taken
above, which makes no difference.
You will aſk, why the 3 of H with the D was
not the cauſe of death. I anſwer, becauſe there
(av) The Moon to the Oppoſition of Mercury, dire&t di
rećtion.
the
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I V IT I E S. 39
the D was in a contrary latitude, and influenced in
the orbs of a fortunate planet ; alſo the 8 of 3 to
the D, by a converſe direction, did not kill, as the
D applied to the parallel of n! in the world by the
ſame converſe motion. But this nativity, with re
ſpect to life, was not very ſtrong, by reaſon of the
unhappy ſtate of the D, the ſignificator of life.
The cauſes of antipathy between theſe two
princes; the antecedents in the ſigns in the oppo
ſite places to degrees and minutes, H of Francis
above, the G) of Charles, 3 of Charles in D, the
D of Francis, the D of Charles in the ſeſqui-qua
drate, 3 of Francis, h in the oppoſite Cardinals,
3 angular in the one, cadent in the other, alter
nately in the D. &c.
w
P H I L I P
so R E M A R K AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T : E S
P H I L I P T H E T H I R D,
K I N G of S P A 1 N.
E died on the 31ſt of March, 1621, aged 42
years 11 months. Hewas, for the firſt time, in
1614, ſeized with a flow of humours from the head,
which laſted without any intermiſſion, together
with a weak ſtate of health. -
The horoſcope, ſignificator of life, in the 43d
year arrived at the D of h by our method, whereof
the calculation is as follows (x). -
The right aſcenſion and medium cali is 253° 9',
right aſcenſion of H, 295° 23' ; there remains the
arc of dire&tion medium caeli to h 42° 14', from
which place H projećts the D to the horoſcope.
For the equation, I add this arc of the direction
to the O’s right aſcenſion 32° 9', and I make the
ſum 74° 23, anſwering to 15° 40' of II, which
the o from the day of the nativity arrives at in
43 days, which denote ſo many years of life. For
the ſecondary direction, I add 42 days for ſo many
years, 22 hours for 11 months, and 28° for ſeven
days; therefore the ſecondary are made on the
27th of May, 1578, with 13h 15', P. M.
(x) Horoſcope Quartile to Saturn.
(y) Canon XXVIII.
Deg.
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v IT I Es. 41
- º , ; ; * , t * * * -
- * * * * * * * * f
9 |* | * | * | * | *__* | *
Dºg. It |x| + || 4 |x| + || || | x
* º 15.4° 12.o. 22.50 ...sºs. ºo 28.0 28.37
Lat. - 1.2s o.14 2.18.
The O is found in the parallel of the declination
of K, and in the D of 3 and D of the D in 6 with
& , by long. and lat. andto the hour, P. M., 13°
15, the 27th of May, is poſited in the horoſcope ºr
5° 45', and in the medium celi 3° of kº. The pro
greſſions for 43 years happen exactly on Oétober
the 5th, 1581, whilſt the had 21° ºr ; but we
muſt ſubſtraćt 24°, in order that the may be poºr
ſited in t 27°; the reſt as follow:
o | H | | | 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
== Vºf
Lon. 20.o. 27. 19 || 22.19 || Io.20 28.15 || Io.o 3.40 || 23.42
Deg. | = | £ 2. ºf | * m.
The o was conjoined to 3, the to the D of
8; the former had arrived at the D of h of the
nativity, and the latter to its parallel. On the
day of death, the ſtars were poſited thus: -
F Deg.
42 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I TIES.
O P 1 || 3 2 § 83
gå 8 m. || >{ cy"
+
Deg. ‘Y”
of
Long. Io. 58 |19.3|O-42 21.16 22-6 || 13.9 | 18.53 || 10.53
The O on the day he died was poſited above 8
of the nativity, for g was unfortunate by reaſon
of the ſign and mundane parallel of 3 ; ) op
poſite to h of the nativity, and ſecondary direétion
of h in the D of the ſecondary direction of the
horoſcope, that is, from the imum caeli; for in the
medium caeli are, as we have ſaid, ºf 3”; but when
the horoſcope's ſignificator of life, ſuch rays then
direéted to it are very powerful. Laſtly, there is
a famous new Moon in ºr 3° before death, and af
terwards the quadrant of the O being above the ſe
condary direction ofthehoroſcope,and the D in its [],
and 8 with O with the ray D H to the horoſcope;
but it was expected that the D would arrive at 3
of h, of the nativity and ſecondary direction. An
eclipſe of the D preceded the year 1620, in 24° of
f; the D remaining between 8 of 3 , and H in
the medium caeli, the ſign f reſpects Spain and the
men, the medium caeli royal dignities; all this is
agreeable to the ſentinents of Ptolemy : and alſo
another eclipſe of the o in 14° of II, that is, in
the D of the king's horoſcope; and laſtly, in the
revolution, the O was with 3 and the D in their
- D and
R T M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I TI E S. 43
r) and parallel of declination, h in the D of the
horoſcope of the nativity.
In the year 1614, on the 2d of June, in the
36th year of his age, he was taken ill of a violent
flow of humours from the head, at which time the
D arrived at the ſeſqui-quadrate of 3 in the zodiac
near 8, and parallel of the declination of 8, and
by the D's converſe motion to the D of 8, when
fhe was ſeparated from the ſeſqui-quadrate of 3 ,
the quintile of 2, the ſubſequent of which is in
jured by the D of Ł , the horoſcope to 2.
Any one, if he pleaſes, may calculate theſe di
rećtions.
By ſecondary directions, on the 36 days ſucceed
ing the nativity, the o conjoined to ?, entered
the parallel of the declination of h, with 8 of the
I , ſubſequent to the D of 3 to both, in which
parallel the o continued almoſt without inter
ruption, but was not the ſignificator of life.
A diſorder in the head is chiefly denoted from the
parallel of the D's declination with # in the nativity
and mundane parallel with 3, which the former
was found in the mundane parallel of 3.
* R EMA R k A B L E N AT I v IT res.
f
H E N R Y THE FOURTH,
K1 N G o F F R A N C E.
--- N the year 1610, on the 4th ofMay,'4' 48,
‘l P.M. he received a wound ofwhich he died.
In 1594, on the 15th of December, he was
ſlightly wounded in the face.
Argol deſcribes his nativity in his works; on the
critical days, he places in the medium caeli 3° 21's,
---, * * * ~ * , -
-
butin thehoroſcope27°20'ofa, although, according
the latitude of the country, which he explains in
the figure, page 48, they ſhould be placed in the
"horoſcope 26 ‘.…. He likewiſe places the 21°
14 of w; but, according to the common Ephemeris
and Tables of moveable ſeconds, the ) is poſited
in 25° 35 of ºr, in which placeſhe is a very pow
erful ſignificator of life, and which is ſo plainly
proved by an agreement of the time of death with
the P's direction to the a of h in the zodiac, near
11° 1' of II, when the D is in latitude ſouthern
3° 21'. -
The oblique aſcenſion of the D's oppoſite place
to the pole 48, is 21 19 25', which ſubſtraćted
from the oblique aſcenſion of the horoſcope, there
remains the D’s diſtance from the weſt. The noćtur
nal
|
f
R E M A Rºk AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es. 45
ºnal horary times of the 14° 2' (z), the elevation
of the ſixth houſe is 37°; the difference then of the
pole of the fixth and ſeventh houſes is 11°; I ſay,
if the duplicate noćturnal horary times of the 18°,
give the polar difference of the houſes 11°, what will
the D's diſtance from the weſt 4° 15' give Facit
2°, which being ſubſtraćted from the pole of the
feventh houſe, there “remains the D's pole 46°,
under which the oblique aſcenſion of the D 3 is
2 icº 59, and the oblique aſcenſion of f 11° 1', in º
latitude northern 3° 21', is 207° 37', from which,
ſubſtraćting the former, leaves the arc of direétion
59° 38', which being equated, points out 56 years
and ſix months nearly.
In a converſe direction the and h, by the mo
tion by the primum mobile, in a parallel from the
imum caeli, called a rapt parallel, calculated thus (a):
D. M. H. M.
The p’s ſemi-no&turnal arc 84 6 or 5 37
Saturn's ſemi-nočiurnal arc – - 6 41
The 5’s right aſcenſion 25° 33', her diſt.
- from the imum caeli - - - - 79 53
Saturn's right aſcenſion 343° 14', diſt. -
in right aſcenſion from the D - 42 19
As the ſum of the ſemi-noëturnal arc 12 18
is to the D's ſemi-nočturnal arc - 5 37
ſo is the diſtance in right aſcenſion 42 19
to the D's ſecondary diſtance - - 19 19
(z) Canon XII. .
(a) The Moon parallel to Saturn, rapt motion.
- z which
46 R E M A R K a B L E N AT IV. I T I E S.
which being ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves
the arc of direction 60° 34', one degree ſubſequent
to the other. -
Argol tells us King Henry eſcaped danger by a
wound he received in his under lip, which ſtruck
out ſome of his teeth, in the year 1594, on the
15th of December, when he was exactly 41 years
of age; the D in a right motion arrived at the a
of H in the world (b).
As the D's ſemi-noëturnal arc - - 5 37
is to her diſtance weſt - - - - 4 15
ſo is the ſemi-nodiurnal arc of H - 6 41
to the ſecondary diſtance of H - - 5 3
which being equated as uſual, gives 40 years;
therefore the true direction had preceded ſome time
before. -
There was likewiſe a little before the D, to the
rapt parallel of 3, being equi-diſtant from the imum
earli of the y's ſemi-no&turnal arc 5h 37', the ſemi
noćturnal arc of 3 7h 50', their ſum 13h 27', the
right aſcenſion of 3 287°5, his diſtance in right
aſcenſion from the D 98° 28′; hence you have her
ſecondary diſtance 41 ° 7', which ſubſtraćting from
her primary 79° 53, leaves the arc of direction
38° 46'. .
Theſe directions of H, and 3 to the D were not
mortal, as ſhe continued in a right direétion within
(b) The Moon at the Quartile of Saturn Mundo.
the
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I TI E S. 47
-
the rays of n! and his orbs, and alſo in a parallel
of the declination of 2. On the 15th of Decem
ber 1594, 3 was above 23° m, in the 3 of the y's
place of the dire&tion, and the D in 4° of 2:, lati
tude ſouth 5°, nearly in the parallel of 3 's radical
place.
The ſecondary direétion to the 56th year, toge
ther with the 4 months and 20 days, fall on Feb
ruary 8, 1554, altmoſt in the meridian.—The
places of the planets were as follow:
G) } Q § &
B n!
Deg. :: 8 || > | = |}{ | < | < gº
Lon. 29.44 | 18. 14 || 17.19 | 1.55|t. 16|4.47 16.26 | 18.36
S. N. : S. N. S.
Lat. 1.42 1.5-2. - o. 16. 1.26
Where the o was conjoined to 3 by longitude
and latitude, about the beginning of the ſign x,
3 was alſo there, and not far diſtant } , which
ſurrounded the o’s place in the middle, on the day
he received the wound, to which place the G en
tered by a ray in the E , in which he was hindered
by H in the angle ; and the , on the 8th of Fe
bruary, was in 18° of 8, in latitude ſouth 4° 20', by
which ſhe gained the declination 14° 20'; b had
this ſame declination, and likewiſe a to this ſaine
place of the y, on the day he got the wound; at
which time the was in 7° of z, in the D of 8,
which
* R E M A R - A E L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es.
which received the nature of 3 in parallel ofde
clination, alſo h’s D in the world.
Places of the Progreſſions of the Planets, the 7th of
july, 1558.
) P : 71 || 3 || ? § - 93
* | 8 || : g= | II | Q | y,
+
Deg.
of
The progreſſion to the end of the 56th year,
depend on the 24th of June, 1558, when the D
was poſited in 6° of m ; for the 4 months and 24
days, we advance five ſigns and 6°, and come to
the 7th of July; the o was then ſeparated from
* 3, denoting a conſpiracy to have preceded; H,
was in 23° of 8 ; the o entered this place exactly
on the day he was wounded, 3 in 17° of ga,
whoſe declination the D had on the ſame day.
But it was ſix days before the famous new
Moon, the o being 17° of 8, and the 17° of
m, which applied to D of H, and the D, when
in latitude 4°, was in exact parallel of the decli
nation of H and 3. . You ſee, therefore, that the
famous agreement with places of the ſecondary
direction and progreſſion, from the day he received
the wound, together with the preceding lunation,
is agreeable to what Ptolemy ſays in the laſt chap
ter, Book IV. From which we are likewiſe
taught,
Lon. 24.o! I 1.34 22.51 || 8.33 || 16. 19 o.º. 15Bºo 23-2. I
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV IT I E S. 49,
taught, that caution is always neceſſary in thoſe
lunations, wherein the luminaries are excluded by
the inimical rays ; and particularly, if the places
in which thoſe rays are unfortunate either by in
greſs or tranſit, deny the prorogators of the nati
vity, or rather, if their aſpects with them be hoſ
tile, as we ſhall find in the following examples.
G SEBASTIAN,
5e R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT I E Se
o
S E B A S T I A N,
K I N G of Po R T U G A L.
N the year 1578, on the 4th of Auguſt, he
was mortally wounded in the war in Africa,
aged 24 years, 6 months, and II days.
This nativity has a very near reſemblance to that
of Francis, King of France; in both, the D is in
poſſeſſion of the ninth houſe, declining from an 8
of 3, which remains in the third. In Sebaſtian,
the D has the declination of 3 , which conſtitutions
denote journies for the ſake of war. In both, the
J) is injured by the aſpects of the enemies of
Francis, by the declination of h; in Sebaſtian, by
that of 3 ; in both, h is in the ſign x, angular
in the mundane parallel of the D, above which he
is elevated. In Francis, from the medium caeli; in
Sebaſtian, from the imum caeli; in both, the D is in
the conditionary luminary ; which being ſo un
happily affected, denoted diſtreſſes in journies; in
both, nº is unfortunate. Succedent to the rays of
T2 to medium cali, in Francis, cadent in the ſign
my ; in Sebaſtian B: ; where to the good things by
him ſignified, he added ſorrows; in both, & aſ
fumes the nature of the enemies; for in Francis,
he
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT I V IT I E S, 51
he is in the parallel of declination of H. , and k of
3 ; in Sebaſtian, in the mundane parallel of h,
which is elevated above it from the fourth houſe;
in the other from the medium cali; which conſtitu
tion infers the fixed purpoſe of its own proper ſen
tence, and tends rather to perform things that are
difficult, nay, impoſſible.
Argol, in this nativity, omitting the D, to whom
the right of hyleg belongs, directed, when the
numbers of his calculation did not agree, the aſcen
dent to the E of h, which ray contains ſigns of the
ſmalleſt aſcenſions, as are ºf, z, and x; the
place alſo of the direction is in the orbs of 2, the
antiſcion of the ſame ſuccedent, as is generally
thought, and doubtleſs they were ſtrong and ſuffi
cient grounds for this opinion; but as we have fully
demonſtrated elſewhere, the rays of the ſtars taken
in the zodiac, are altogether as nothing, and in
this nativity becomes a very powerful fignificator
of life; who at the time of this King's ill fortune,
came in a direction to 21° of m, with latitude 4° 23"
north, the parallel declination of h 7° 47', which
is thus calculated *.
The D's declination 16°12', anſwers to a 15°
40, whoſe horary times doubled, are 34° 44'; the
polar elevation of the ninth houſe 16°, the D's
right aſcenſion 147° 29' ; from hence ariſes her
diſtance from the medium caeli 11° 26', and her
* The Moon to parallel of Saturn's converſe direction.
G 2 polar
52 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W I TIES.
polar elevation 5°; under which the oblique aſcen
ſion of the D’s 8 is 328° 56'; the oblique aſcenſion
of x 21°, with latitude 4° 23' South, is 354°9',
from which ſubſtraćting the former, leaves the arc
of direction 25° 13', which being equated, as uſual,
produces 25 years. . . . -
By a converſe motion, the D was ſeparated from
the k of n!, and applied to the ſeſqui-quadrate of
h; but the hyleg, by a converſe motion, was weak,
owing to the 8 of 3 and 3 , to which the D by
a converſe motion applied nearly.
7ſ had arrived at the medium caeli, wherein he
had undertaken the friendly office of reſtoring
Prince Muly to his father's kingdoms.
But you will aſk, why the 8 of h to the D did
not deſtroy life I anſwer, from ſeveral cauſes:
the King at that time was preſerved, firſt, the in
the 8 had gained much latitude, whereby ſhe was
far diſtant from the diametrical point; the direc
tion happened in the orbs of £ 3°, the mundane
A of the ſame was ſuccedent 4°; after the mundane
parallel of n! had preceded by a right motion, he
applied by a converſe motion; but in 1, 21°, none
of the friendly rays affifted, yet there is the begin
ning of the orbs of 3 . All theſe remarks are taken
from Ptolemy, in the Chapter of Life.
. Secondary
R. E M A R K, A B L E N AT 1 v i T L E S. 53
Secondary Directions on the 13th of February, 1554,
2 Hours 26 Minutes, P. M. -
*
*
O || | | || 3. º §
Deg. × gº || 3 | < || 3 || 3 || 2: ºf
of -
Long. 4.5o 21.20 || 3-ol 1.26 5-10 || 1 1.1 : 13-30 | 18.2c
Progreſſions on the 14th of January, 1556.
o|| > | 8 || 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 9
ry.
Deg. 2: | 3: |
of
Lon. 3.55 * 8.7 || 29.26 || 27.34 || 10.14 || 8.47 || 1 1.16
m 2: kf II
:
The following was the Poſition of the Planets on the
- unfortunate Day.
O | }) P 7| || 3 2 § 83
Deg. | Sl ng Vºf tº: cy- ng Sl }{
*|a.
Lon.|21.7| 7.25 | 18.12 || 1o. 58 22.o 14.25 | Io.23 25.o
For the ſecondary dire&tion, I add to the hours
of the nativity 24 days, 12 hours, 40 minutes; I
come to the 13th of February, 1554, 2h 26, P. M.
in which the O was conjoined in longitude and
latitude with 3, exactly in 5° of x, without
- the
54 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N A T L VI TI E S.
the leaſt aſſiſtance of friendly rays; but the D was in
the day of his illneſs ill-fortuned in the 8 of the
O applying to the parallel of the declination of H,
of theſe motions; the D on the ſame 13th of Fe
bruary, was in 21° of ga, to which, on the un
happy day, h from the 8 of 3 in the D, were miſ
chievouſly diſpoſed; therefore, from the aëtive and
paſſive ingreſs, the D continued unhappily ſituated,
and was alſo, on the unfortunate day, with the decli
nation of h of the nativity, and of his direction;
the ſame almoſt with that of 3, from 22° of ºr,
with latitude ſouth 4°. The progreſſions for 24
years are finiſhed on the 29th of December, 1555,
while the D is there poſited in 2° of a; for the
other fix months I add ſix ſigns with the half, and
come to the 13th of January, 1556, when the p
was found in 17° of z, that is, when the 3 with
the O has paſſed 15°, as the 8 of the O had paſſed
ſo many in the nativity, and the D is poſited in 28°
of z on the 14th of January, and was in partile 3
with 3 , and both in the 8 of the D of the nati
vity, to whoſe 8 the O applied on the fatal day.
The G) in the progreſſions was between the + , and
both together with the parallel declination of n!,
who, during the war, favoured from the A this
place of theG). There had alſo preceded in the pro
greſſions a 6 with the O, 2, and 11, by a tran
fit from a A aſpected O of the nativity; hence it
is evident, that the affairs of the King, together
with his army, were ſucceſsful, as he with his
troops
t
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IW IT I ES, 55
troops had ſeized upon the kingdoms of others;
but the ſtars threatened life, which when extin
guiſhed, every thing fell equally with it.
The fourfollowing nativities, as they havetheo
in the crepuſculums the ſignificator of life, and the
calculations of the direétion belonging to the ſame
Canons, I was unwilling to ſeparate, but at the
ſame time have explained them one after another;
as they bear teſtimony to the truth of my opinions
concerning the crepuſcules, it was likewiſe my
deſire to have them all ready at hand, to every
one who wiſhes to have a proof of it.
GUSTAVU3
/ - -
* * Z. º
35. R.E M A R K AB L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es.
G U S T Av Us AD o LP H U s,
K 1 N G of Sw E D E N.
N the 16th of Oétober, 1632, 3h 17, P. M.
he was mortally wounded in an engagement,
aged 37 years 10 months.
. In this nativity, to the given mºtutine 7h 28 in
medium caeli, are due 20.30 of ~, and not 1542
of ~, according to the Argoline poſition; others
aſſert, that the true hours are 7h 42': however it
be, it matters not, as we do not direct the horo
ſcope, but the G), who at the time of this king's
death was direéted, by a right motion, to the 3 of
T!, the U of 3, and the 3 of H in the zodiac,
within the orbs of 3 ; but the preſence of nº could
be of no ſervice as being alone, the enemies nu
merous ; then the G), by a converſe motion, was
direéted to the 3 of 3 and D of h, the parallel
of the ſame, H being ſuccedent in the world, where
indeed there is an agreement of the E of n!: but,
as I have ſaid, being alone againſt ſeveral, he could
not influence, and even, when he was the giver
of true valour, he changed it to raſhneſs, be
cauſe hindered by the enemies, as Ptolemy tells us
in his chapter on the Nature of the Mind.
The
-
R E M A R KAB L E N AT Ivi T1?s, sº
The calculation of the right dire&tion of the 6's
oblique aſcenſion in the horoſcope is 313° 15', from
which ſubſtraćting the horoſcope's oblique aſcen
fion, there remains the o’sprimary diſtance 20°48,
the oblique aſcenſion 25° 2 of the place of the
rays : h and 3 is 350° 21', from which ſubſtraćt
ing the O’s oblique aſcenſion, there remains the
direétion's arc 37° 36', calculated in the horoſcope;
but as the O is in the matutine crepuſcule, I enter
the table of crepuſcules to the pole59°, with 28°4,
and the o’s diſtance 28°48', which is primary, and
I find the o remaining in the crepuſculine circle
of depreſſion 8°, oppoſite to this crepuſculine cir
cle under 3, 25°; after taking the proportional
part, I obtain 16° 33, which I call ſecondary diſ
tance, and rejećt it from the primary; there then
remains the Eaſtern difference 4° 15', but the ſe
condary diſtance is leſs than the primary, the dif
ference therefore muſt be added to the direction's
arc above, taken in the horoſcope, and the true arc
of direction is then 41° 21'; this arc I add to the
o's right aſcenſion, which is 266° 59', and the ſum
is 308° 20', anſwering to 5° 56', at which the O,
from the day of the nativity, arrives in 38 days,
which denotes ſo many years. The calculation of
the o’s converſe direétion to 3 is thus: The 11th
houſe is elevated 31°, its oblique aſcenſion is 232*
27'; in the ſame place the oblique aſcenſion of 3 is
244° 33'; the diſtance therefore of 3 from the 11th
houſe is 12°6': the 12th houſe is elevated 49°, its
- - H * oblique
38 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT I E S.
oblique aſcenſion is 262°27'; the oblique aſcenſion
of 3 is 255°51'; therefore the diſtance of 3 from
the 12th houſe is 6° 36'; thoſe diſtances of 3 ,
added together, make 18°42', the ſpace of the
houſes of 3 above the earth: the difference of the
polar elevation of the 11th and 12th houſes is 18°,
from which ariſes the polar elevation of45° nearly;
the oblique aſcenſion of 3 to this pole 43°, is
251° 16'; the D's oblique aſcenſion there is 290° 52';
the remainder is the arc of direétion 39° 36' leſs
than the preceding, by 1° 45', ſo that from the 6
with 3 (b) the o began to be ſeparated.
Of the O's direction to the D of H in mundo,
by a converſe motion (c), the calculation is as fol
lows (d): The oblique aſcenſion of the 8 of H is
351° 16', to the pole 59°, that is, in the horoſcope;
the right aſcenſion of h is 327° 11, which ſub
ftraćted from the former, leaves the aſcenſional
difference of h 24°5', and the ſemi-diurnal arc of
h becomes 114° 5': the diſtance of H from the
Weſt is 58° 49', the Q's declination is 23° 30', aſ
cenſional difference 46° 23', ſemi-diurnal arc is 43°.
37; o's right aſcenſion is 266° 59', from which
his primary diſtance from the medium caeli is 64°32'.
I now require, if the ſemi-diurnal arc of H 114°,
gives his diſtance from the Weſt 58° 49', what diſ
tance from the medium caeli will the Q's ſemi-diur
(b) The Moon in conjunation with Mars in the zodiac.
(c) The Sun to the Quartile of Mars, converſe motion in
Munda, (d) Canon II.
nal
R E M A R KAB L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es, 59
nal arc 43°37' give and by the logarithms theo's
ſecondary diſtance from the medium caeli is 22°29',
which ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves the arc
of direction 42.3 of the (e) o as D to H (f). But if
we add this ſecondary diſtance of the o 22°29 to
his primary from the horoſcope, we make the O’s
arc of direétion to the mundane parallel of h 43° 17';
therefore the direétions followed very near one after
the other. But as I declare myſelf ſincerely inge
nuous, and deſire nothing but the bare truth of
every thing, obſerve, gentle Reader, that I have
recorded this example in my Philoſophy of the
Heavens, and have there remarked, that from Ty
cho's calculation, one degree is to be added to the
o's place; for as Argol has placed a matutine hour,
that is from midnight, in the middle of this fi.
gure, I thought it belonged to the night following
the 19th day, for, among ſeveral reaſons, mid
night is the end of the preceding, and the begin
ning of the following day; but if 7h 28' be from
midnight, it certainly preceded the 19 days; and I
afterwards found, from the D's place, that that
matutine hour belonging to the night preceding
the 19th day, therefore the o’s place ſeems to
have been rightly calculated. -
For the ſecondary direétions, I add to the hours
ofthe nativity 37 days 20 hours, for ſo many years
and 10 months, and I come to the 25th of January
(e) The Sun to the parallel of Saturn inMundo.
(f) Canon XXXII. and XXXVII,
H 2 - 1595,
69 R. E M A R K A B L E N AT Ivi Ti Es.
1595, with the meridional hour 17,42: the Q was
in 2: 6°, and the D in a 6°, who by a ſeſqui
quadrate ray and parallel of declination of aſſuming
the nature of 3 , with whom he had theſe aſpeas
while remaining in the parallel 8 of the @, in
fećted the O alſo with the ſame evil qualities; the
O too was in the parallel of 3 radical, and like
wiſe at ſetting h and 3 entered a parallel exactly
to this place ofthe O, and ) at ſetting had entered
the exact parallel of 3 by theſe motions of the
25th of January. The progreſſions for full 38 years
were made on the 13th of January 1598, whilſt
the D had ºr 16°; but there is a deficiency of two
months and four days, for the Q at ſetting was in
* 23°, but in the nativity to7°, wherefore, from
this place of the in ºn 16°, I ſubſtraćt 6° 5' for.
the two months four hours, to denote ſo many
days, ſo that the is poſited in 2.7°, that is, on,
the 8th of January 1598, when the Q was in ºf
18° above 8 of the nativity; and it is to be ob
ſerved, that # in the nativity takes upon him an
inimical nature, becauſe not conjoined with the
friends, but, on the contrary, in the houſe of h;
the D, by exaltation, k, and alſo bymundane paral
lel of 3, applied to the parallel of4 of thenativity,
and alſo of h and 3 on the day of their ſetting,
& in the progreſſions from II was found in the 8
of the O of the nativity. On the 13th of Oéto
ber, 16°32', three days before the accident, there
-
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ſ: " . . . . . . . . . . ;
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v IT H E S. 61
was a famous new D in 20° of e, in D of 8 of the
nativity, and D of the O’s progreſſion.
But it appears that § contributed not a little to
the accident which befel the King, who is reported
to have gone, merely out of curioſity, to recon
noitre the enemy, and was by them wounded mor-.
tally. . . . . . . . - - - *
*
Secondary Directions.
G) D | P hp 3 2 | 8 83
Deg. |* | Sl Q. >{ f }{ Vºf 8
of l—
Long. 6.ol 6-o] 22.40 | 1.55 || 21.29| 16.5ol 13.1o 6.37
Progreſſions.
| @ | > | } | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
II I II || 2: Vºf 3%
: ==
Deg. Vºf
. I of
Lon. 18.o. 7...o 4.28 6.4o 28.9 || 28.22 || 8.o 9.30
Places ofthe Stars at the Moment of the Accident.
83
§
N | }} || 7 || 3 2
Deg. | = | f | m. 8. m m | tº ºr
Łon.] 23:25 o.15 27.11 || 24.29 |25-48 || o 31 || 23.44; 27.5
ODOARDUS
62. R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I Ti E. S.,
ODOARDUS CARDINAL FARNESE:
E was eleēted Cardinal in March 1591, being
17 years and three months old : a catarrh
put an end to his life on the 21ſt of February,
1626, in the 52d year, two months and ſeveh days
of his age. -- º --
Argolus directs the aſcendant to the antiſcion of
h; whereas the fignificator oflife belongs entirely
to the o, which he omits, becauſe the numbers
of his calculation do not agree. And as my me
thod is perfectly right, inſomuch, that not only in
theſe examples, wherein the 9 is in the crepuſ
cules, but alſo in others, wherein the o is found
in the obſcure ſpace, my calculations agree won
derfully with the times. Doubtleſs theſe examples.
of deceaſed perſons ought to be received; and that
no one may look upon this new opinion concern
ing the crepuſcules as ridiculous, and not to be
depended upon, there are ſeveral people who can
vouch for its truth. " . . . .
The o then, in the 53d year, arrived at the D
of H, inthe zodiac; theo’s oblique aſcenſion in the
horoſcope is 289° 32'; the oblique aſcenſion of the
quadrate of h is 344°50'; from which, ſubſtraćt
ing the former, leaves the arc of direction 55° 18'
* . . . . . . . . calculated
- i.
i
º
R E M A R K A B LE N AT I v 1 T 1 Es. 63
calculated in the horoſcope; I ſubſtraćt the horo
ſcope's oblique aſcenſion from the o, and there re
mains the O’s primary diſtance from the horoſcope
20°57', which I look for in the Tables of the Cre
puſcules to the pole's elevation 44°, but I do not
find it yet: I take the neareſt, which is 20° 14', to
the crepuſculine circle of depreſſion 13°; to the ſo
lar degree 25° of t ; and to the ſame circle under
2° x, I take the ſecondary diſtance 18° 20'; I ſub
ſtraćt this from the primary found in the Tables,
which is 20° 14', (for it is of little or no conſe
quence, as we have ſaid in its Canon, if we do not
take the exact diſtance of the O 20° 57') and there
remains the Eaſtern I* 54'; but as the ſecondary is
leſs than the primary diſtance, I add the Eaſtern
difference to the arc of direction 55° 18', and I
make the true arc of direétion 57° 13' (g).
In a converſe motion, whilſt the o and 3 were
carried away by the motion of the primum mobile,
they happened to be poſited in the mundane parallel
alternately, that is, in an equal proportional diſtance.
from the medium caeli; the O’s ſemi-diurnal arc is
4° 21'; the ſemi-diurnal arc of 3 is 5° 38', (for
the declination of 3 is 5° 26') anſwers to 14° of
… in the ecliptic. I add theſe ſemi-diurnal arcs
together, and I make the ſum 9° 59', which
I place in the firſt; in the ſecond, the ſemi-diurnal
arc of 3 5h 38; in the third, the right diſtance
- (g) Sun parallel to Mars, made in Scorpio and Aries.
- - * * * which
84 RE M A R K AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es.
which varies between 3 and the o, the right af.
cenſion of 3 is 195° 27', but of the o 2640 48';
therefore there remains their right alternate diſ
tance 69° 21'; and in the fourth place is produced
the ſecondary diſtance of 3 from the medium caeli 39°
8', which I add to the primary, becauſe 3 is in the
aſcendant part ofheaven, and thedireétion is finiſhed
in the deſcendant, and the arc of direétion comes
56°, for the primary diſtance of 3 from the medium
caeli is 16° 52'. For the equation, I add this arc to
the o’s right aſcenſion, which is 264° 48', and
the ſum 320°48', anſwering to 2: 18° 20', at which
the O from the day and hour of the nativity ar
rives in 52 days and 2 hours. The right direc
tion to the D of h was ſuccedent; if, however,
the place of h be true, which in the nativity was
in the 8, h, when the D of the D in the zo
diac ſucceeded him, the diſeaſe in its proper and
natural ſignificator was denoted to be mortal from
the violence of the catarrh, which was ſo great,
that it cauſed a ſuffocation. For the ſecondary di
rečtion, I add to the hours of the nativity, 52
days, 4 hours, 30 minutes, for the 52 years,
2 months and a quarter, and I come to the 28th
of January, 1574; a little before noon the oap
plied there to the exact parallel of 3 ; alſo, the O
was conjoined to 8 B., who being in South latitude
3° 50', was in the ſame parallel of declination with
h, and ſo by reaſon of the ſigns and aſpects aſ
ſumed the nature of h . But it deſerves admira
tion,
R E M A. R. K. A. B.L. E N A T I V ITI E. S. 65
tion, to find that, on the day he took to his bed,
the O was found in 3 with 3 &, and nearly in the
ſame degrees of that ſign, both being in the parallel
of 3 , who in that of 3 entered the o’s place of
theſe motions; and on the day preceding the fick
neſs, there happened a full 9 near to theſe
places; the in her motion was in 8 1°, with
3° 53 South latitude, whereby ſhe had the declina
tion of 18° 14'; this declination h entered at
his ſickneſs and death; on the day his diſorder be
gan, the D was in m 7°, to a ſa of Ł by theſe
motions. You ſee, therefore, a mutual alteration
of the aëtive and paſſive ingreſs. Laſtly, on the
day he died, the o reached x 3° of his primary
direétion, under a D of H of the nativity, and 3.
7° in 8; whence both in the quadrate and parallel
he maligned the o’s place of theſe motions of the
ſecondary direétion; but, becauſe & ſometimes
communicates a kind - aſpect to the fignificator
of life, even though he may affiſt towards a de
fluxion of humours, he aſſumes the nature of the
enemies, particularly if he participates with h.
Hear what Ptolemy ſays in the Chapter of Diſ
eaſes incident to the Body: “But 8 (ſays he) is a
help to the inveteracy of diſorders, as he increaſes
the frigidity of h, when reconciled to him, and
with a more conſtant motion ſtimulates the
phlegm and heap of humours, in particular about
the breaſt, belly, and throat, &c.”
I The
65 R E M A R K.A. B L E N AT IV. 1 T I E 5.
º
. The progreſſions for 48 years are finiſhed on the
24th of Oétober, 1577, during the time the D re
mains in ºr 21°, for its diſtance there from the S
of the O is 20°, as in the nativity, for 52 years,
on the 20th of February, 1578, whilſt ſhe was in
sl 22°; for the two remaining months the D goes
over 65°, and is poſited in a 27°. Laſtly, for the
other 7 days ſhe goes 8°, and is poſited in 5° of m,
the O was then in × 17°, which is from the op
poſite, where h entered on the time of his ſickneſs,
and 3 in the parallel at his death, and nearly in
the 3, entered the D's place of the progreſſion of
m 5°. -
in the 18th year, when the native was created a
Cardinal (h), the O, by a right direction, arrived
at a A of n! in the world, which we have calcu
lated in Canon XXXVI. to which we refer you ;
the medium caeli likewiſe came to the A of 2; for
the oblique aſcenſion of the ſecond houſe, which
is elevated 33°, is 298° 35'; the oblique aſcenſion
of 2 in the ſame place is 3.18° 3, from which ſub
ftraćting the former, leaves the arc of direétion
19°28'; ſo that this preceded, that ſucceeded.
(h) Canon XXVII.
Secondary
º
B E M A R K A B L E N AT IV.1 T I E S. 67
Secondary Direáions to the Time of his Death, ja
nuary 28, 1574.
o | H || 1 || 3 || 2 || 3 || 8
Deg. * 8 f 8 m. cy,
Lon. 18.48 || 1.o 7.14 || 27. 12 || 1 1.55 2.57 || 19. Io 22.21
R.
...: II
Progreſſiºn on the 25th of February, 1578.
) | p || || || 3 || 2 || 3 || $2
in ºf are ºf : | Y ºr
G)
Deg. }{
of
Lon. 17.o. 5.o 21. Io | 9-30 || Io. 36 || 27.14 || 6- 14 || 3.30
On the Day ºfthe Sickneſ, the Stars were poſited thus:
O | V | H || || || 3 || 7 || 8 || 2
P; + my up m | 8 || : 2: my
o -
Long. |24, 17.37| 13.48 || 1.o | I 1.32 || 2.5% 22.29 || 5.20
- R. R.
I. 2 RAINUTIUS
&
63 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV.I.T H Ess
--
*
RAIN UT I U S F A R N E S E,
D UK E or Pa * * * :
Trr E died the 5th of March, 1622, ofa dropſy,
aged 52 years and 11 months. The O is
doubtleſs the ſignificator of life in this nativity;
but Argol not finding in his numbers any direétion
of the o for 53 years, direéts the aſcendant to a
A of h, which is of the longeſt aſcenſion, and in
the place of the direétion is the beginning of the
orbs of 11, ſo that this direction has not the leaſt
deadly appearance (i). According to our method,
the o arrives by a right direétion at (k) a D of 3
in the zodiac; the O’s oblique aſcenſion in the ho
roſcope is 8° 28, from which ſubſtraćting the ho
roſcope’s oblique aſcenſion, the o’s diſtance from
the horoſcope is, for the remainder, 18° 43'; the
oblique aſcenſion of ga o.o is 65° 10', from which
ſubſtraćting the O’s oblique aſcenſion, leaves the
arc of direction calculated in the horoſcope 56°42'.
In the Table of Crepuſcules I look for this diſtance
of the O 18° 43', under the pole's elevation 44°, to
the ſolar degree of ºr 16°, and I take the propor
tional part between the diſtance 18° 32', which is
(i) Canon XXVIII.
(k). The Sun to the Quartile of Mars in zodiac,
£C)
R. E. M. A.R. K. AB L E N A T L V IT I E S. 63
to, ºr icº, to the crepuſculine circle 13°, and the
diſtance 19° 1', which is to 20° ºr, i. e. for 6°, for
the G is in ºr 16°; the difference is 20°, from
which for the 6° 17', are due to be added to 18° 32',
and I make 18°49', but the O’s diſtance is 18°43’;
this I reječt, and take 18° 49', for it matters not,
as we have ſaid in the the firſt of the Canons. To
the ſame crepuſculine circle 13° under as o.o, I
take the 24°45', which are the ſecondary diſtance,
and greater than the primary 5° 56', which are
therefore to be ſubſtraćted from the arc of direction
above found, and there remains the true arc of di
rečtion 5cº 46 (l), which for the equation I add to
the o’s right aſcenſion 14° 31', and I make the
ſum 65°17' to II 7°, which the O from the hour
of the nativity reaches in 53 days, which are ſo
many years; at the ſame time the O, by a con
verſe motion, came to the (m) ſeſqui-quadrate of
% in mundo. The oblique aſcenſion of the oppo
ſite of H is 6°19', from which ſubſtraćing the ho
roſcope's obſique aſcenſion, there remains the diſ
tance of H, from the Weſt 16° 34'; but as the ho
rary times of h are 15°, it is evident that h was
poſited about the middle of the 7th houſe, diſtant
from the true medium caeli 1934; therefore the G. ,
as he is nearly the ſame horary times as h, is po
fited in his ſeſqui-quadrate before he arrives at the
cuſp of the 12th houſe 1° 34'; the Q's horary
(i) Canon xxxi, and xxxvii. -
(m) The Sun to the ſeſqui-quadrate of Saturn in mundº.
- º times
7o R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. ITI E S.
times 16°, added together, make 32°, to which I
add the O’s diſtance from the Eaſt 18° 43', and I
make the ſum 50°43', from which ſubſtraćting 1°34',
there remains the arc of direétion 49°9', ſo that
this direction had preceded a year, in caſe the place
of Ł be true. But there happened to be a ſeſqui
quadrate of h to the D in mundo, by a converſe
motion. There had likewiſe preceded a pa
rallel of h to the O in the world, whilſt both were
moved together by the motion of the primum mc
bile; but as it is unfortunate, and the D in the
6th houſe in the ſeſqui-quadrate of the o, the fig
nificator of life, they denoted a dropſy, and, ac
cording to Ptolemy, a bad ſtate of the lungs. I
take the ſecondary direétions to the 52d year ex
actly, together with the 11 months, from the 18th
of May, 1569, with the meridional hours 14.24;
the was in gº 12°, who was ſeparated from the
8 of n!. On the day he died, which was the 5th
of March, h was found above the place of the ;
and again, on the ſame day, the D entered a D of H,
of theſe motions; the O arrived at II 7°: there was
a full ) before he died, on the 26th of February,
1622, the G being in 8° of x, and the D in my 8°,
in the D to the G)'s ſecondary direction; and at the
full D, the luminaries were with the parallel of 3.:
on the day he died, h entered the parallel of II 7°
of the O’s ſecondary direction.
The progreſſions are made on the 6th of July,
1573; the Q was in a 23°. On the day he died,
- - - - 3 entered,
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT I E.S. 71
3 entered, from the D, this place of the O ; the
D in a of 3 near c. 11°, to which h on the day
of death was in.
The ſecondary directions were as follow :
) B | | | 3 2 § 8
Deg. II gº
of -
Long. || 7-o]12.o. 1.27 | Io.21 | 11.32 22.21 | 15.26 23.1o
=º: Vºf 8 ors 8 1ſ,
The places of the progreſſions are theſe:
G) | } | V | | | 3 2 § 83
Deg. I gå = | in 8 gº ºf gº ga
of
Long, |23.oji I.C 20. Io 29.33 || 11.15 20.3 4.o || 3-16
On the day he died, the planets paſſed over the
following places:
G) ) | } | 1 || 3 2 § . . . $3
Deg. | >{ | f | gå II ºr | 8 || 36 m.
uf
Long- || 15.o 28.ol 14.6 | 16.54| 21.1sl 1.6 ſ 15.39|23-13
Obſerve the unhappy diſpoſition of 11 in all theſe
places to ſignify a dropſy.
- Jo HN
7a. R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v IT I E sº
* , , , . . . . . . .
J O H N C O L U M N E,
Patriarch of Jerusales. -
- º, i.
*
-
E died the 14th of April, 1637, of an apo
| A plectic fit. In June, 1626, hewas troubled
with violent pains in the head. -
In this nativity Argol directs the aſcendant to
the H of it for the time of his death, as it hap
pened that it was an erratic ; whereas the fignifica:
tor of life is entirely proper to the G), who, as the
cardinal ſign of the Eaſt and the favourable planets,
can by no means be an erratic. Indeed, it is true, if
the unfavourable be commixt together with the de
ſtroyers of life, they can diſtinguiſh the kind, na
ture, and cauſe of death. But from their nature,
the friends uſe their power rather to five than de
ſtroy, even from the ray D and 8 , as we find (n)
it in Ptolemy in the Chapter of Life; the othere
fore, the ſignificator of life, arrives at a ri of 3
in the zodiac in 25 years, and, by a (2) converſe mo
tion, was elevated above the horizon to the mun
dane parallel of 3 ; the G’s oblique aſcenſion is 18°
(n) Canon XX.
(a) The Sun from the Quartile of Mars in the zodiac.
r
52 ;
tR E M A R K AB L E N At Ivi T 1 E s. 73
52', from which ſubſtraćting the horoſcope's ob
lique aſcenſion, there remains the o’s primary diſ
tance from the Eaſt 12° 33'; the oblique aſcenſion
t of3 is 44° 37', from which ſubſtraćting the o’s
oblique aſcenſion, leaves the arc of direction 25°
45', calculated in the horoſcope. In the Table of
Crepuſcules, for latitude 42°, I look for the o’s
diſtance, and in the crepuſculine circle 9° to oº of
8, I find 12°54'; to 10° of 8, I find 13° 21';
the difference is 27°. I take the proportional part
for 2° and 1-third, and I make the primary diſtance
13°; then in the ſame crepuſculine circle 9°, under
II 7°, by taking the proportional part, and I ob
tain the ſecondary diſtance 14°45'; the Eaſtern diſ.
tance is 1° 45'... But the ſecondary diſtance is
greater than the primary diſtance; the difference
therefore muſt be ſubſtraćted from the arc of di
rečtion 25° 45'; therefore the true arc of direction
is 24°, which for the equation added to theo’s right
aſcenſion 30°7', makes the ſum $4°7', to 8 26°
26, which the o, from the day and hour of the
nativity, reaches in 25 days, that is, in ſo many
years of his life (p). (4) The o is by a converſe
motion poſited in a mundane parallel of §, whoſe
declination is 7° 17', anſwering to 18° 30' of the
ecliptic; its diſtance from the Eaſt 9° 2d ; its
oblique aſcenſion in the horoſcope is 15° 39'; the
(b) The Sun to the mundane parallel of Mercury, con
verſe motion. -
(q) Canon XXXV, and XXXVII.
y K diurnal
74 R E MAR;K A. B. L.E N AT IV. I Tºl F. S.
diurnal horary times of the o, whereof the noc
turnal horary times are 13°54' (for he is poſited
above the earth) are 16° 53, whereof, in the fourth
place, is produced the O's ſecondary diſtance 11°
20', which, added to the primary, makes the arc
of direétion 23°53'. . . . . . . . . -
But it is very plain that § poſſeſſes an erratic
power; even from the nature, the effeót ſhews it
ſelf; for 8 is in exact parallel of B's declination,
applying to the declination of 3 ; he is likewiſe in
the mundane parallel of h; and as he has his a to
the y, denotes a very grievous diſorder in the head,
chiefly when found in the center of the horoſcope,
and weſtern angle (r). (s) The O was likewiſe con
joined, by a converſe motion, to b , whoſe declina
tion is brought back to x 1 1° 40' in the ecliptic,
and the diurnal horary times become 13° 55,
which doubled is 27°50'; the pole of the twelfth
houſe is 31°, the oblique aſcenſion of h in the ho
roſcope is 352°34', and there remains his diſtance
from the Eaſt 13° 45'; from theſe, in the fourth
place, are produced:5°, to be ſubſtraćted from the
pole of the country, and there remains the polar
elevation of H 37°, under which his oblique aſcen
ſion is 351°28': the o’s oblique aſcenſion there is
20°41', from which, ſubſtraćting the former, leaves
the arc of direétion:29° 13', ſo that the O was
(r) Canon I. IV. and XII.
(*) The Sun in conjunction of Satuin, converſe motion.
only
.*
R E M A R KAB L E N AT Ivi Ti Es. 7s
only 4° diſtant from h; therefore, from the
four examples of the Ó, conſtituted in the cre
puſcules, it is, ſufficiently, and plainly proved,
how well; the calculations by crepuſculine cir
cles agree. But I propoſed this method by rea
ſoning upon, and alſo obſerving the accidents in
theſe examples, as I never could perſuade, my
ſelf to negle& the true ſignificator, of life." It is
uſual with ſome, to anſwer this method of proceed
ing, by ſaying, that there is no occaſion to be ſo ri
gorouſly exact in the judgment of nativities, and
that a malign influence of the horoſcope may kill
the primary, if it has not the ſignification of life.
But from ſuch reaſoning, the order and method
which Ptolemy lays down for the eleētion of a
prorogator is quite abſurd, unleſs life be at the diſ
poſal of a ſole primary ſignificator only, and a
very powerful reaſon convinces us it is ſo. For
even the firſt prorogator only, that is, if more
powerful with reſpect to the reſt, denotes life, or
elſe one with the competent as colleagues; this
cannot be admitted, as it would create a confuſion.
which could not be cleared up. Ptolemy never
taught it ſhould be ſo. They ſay, that life pri
marily regards the principal prorogator; and ſe
condly, the aſcendant; ſo that in the oppoſition to
the enemies, it may kill; but it is quite the reverſe,
if a prorogator, who forms its powerful and dig
nified place, is entitled to the ſignification of life,
can, by his influencing power, ſupport that life,
K a inQ
76 R E M A. R. K. AB L E * N AT I W IT I E S.
no other of inferior virtue can put an end to it.
Again, they ſay, the reaſon why thoſe nativities
are ſtronger, wherein ſeveral concur, to fignify
life, is becauſe the ſignificators of life being nume
rous, there is a proportional increaſe of ſtrength to
prolong life. But it is otherwiſe from ſeveral ſig-,
nificators: the aſpects of the deſtroyers are multi
plied by the different and numerous direétions;
therefore, that perſon who has ſeveral ſignificators
of life, will be lower in ſtation and ſhorter lived,
as, in truth, they direét the horoſcope to the ene
mies, purely that it may kill; though the lumina
ries at that time happily ſignify life, and are
ſtrong, owing to the aſpects of the favourable pla
nets with which they continue in their direction;
one, therefore, only ſignifies life elečted, according
to Ptolemy's method, &c. but let us look for the
other motions in the nativity now before us.
The ſecondary dire&tions are made May 16, -
1612, 16 hours nearly, when the D was in f. 24°
in the D of 3, § in the D of 3's radical place,
and in that of a deadly direétion. At his death the
D was poſited in II to this his place, and on the
day he died was found there, with the E of 8 in
the tº of 3 of theſe motions, for 3 was in × 26°;
on the 9th of April, which preceded his death,
there was a celebrated full e, the e being in ºr
20° above 3 of the nativity, and the D oppoſite ;
and at his death the G) exactly paſſed through above
this place of 8, maligned by the D of h, who in
- his
R. E. M. A.R. K. A. B. L. E . ‘N AT IVºl T1 E. S. 77
his tranſit was found to remain above the D, and
in the D of 8 's radical place. a
The progreſſions to the end of the 25th year,
are made on the 29th of April 1614, the be.
ing in 2: o°; but 7° muſt be ſubſtraćted, for his
death happened 7 days before the o’s return to the
natal place, and the 5 was poſited in 23° of *
above his proper place of the nativity, in the In.
of § , where h was found at the death; the D,
at his death, entered the ſign ef 3 of the progreſ
ſions, where × was in 29°, and at the death ſhe was
poſited in its D, and 8 was found exactly in the
ſame place on the day he died; the p, on the ſame
day, was poſited in the D of the of the progreſ
fions, and parallel of 3 's radical place; and it is
admirable to ſee how well theſe agree. You are
to obſerve, likewiſe, that the ingreſſes and tran
fits, both ačtive and paſſive, agree; aſpecting the
iunations above the places, according to the true
ſenſe of Ptolemy, and are the cauſe of effect.
Secondary Direction Places of the Stars.
O ) b | 1 || 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
Deg. | 8 | f | X | Su | x
of
gº II II
Lon. 16.o 24.o | 16.5 || 17.5o 25.17 | 2.39 || 10.1 | 1.48
The
78 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I. TIES,
The Progreſſions of the Stars are asfollow :
O B || || || 3 2 § 83
)
Deg. | 8 || Vºf Y’ º: 26 8 8 8
of
Long. |8.2c/23-o] 7.5o | 19.36 || 28.57| 24.19 28.52 24.6
Places of the Planets on the 14th of April, 1637,
- 3h Night.
G | > | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2
Dr. ºr t ºf in 8 | * | x ºr
of
Lon. 24.48 |27.ol 25.7 || 7.20 || 14-31 | 1.34 27.o || 29-o
—
FERDINAND
E E M A R x as LE Nativities. 1,
F ERD IN AND G o Nz AGA,
D U K E o F M A N T U A.
I YE died in O&ober, 1626, aged 39 years and
6 months; but as the D is in the center of
the horoſcope, ſhe is the ſignificator of life, which
in the 39th year and 1-half, had arrived, by a right
direction, (t) to a parallel of the declination of the
O and h; and, as a queſtion ſometimes ariſes, to
know at what place the ſignificator arrives by a di
rećtion in the zodiac, of this then I will now
fhew an example: In the firſt place, I thus find
the arc of direétion adequate to the 39 years and a
half; the O in 39° 12h, arrives at II 14°, whoſe
right aſcenſion is 72° 38'; the o's right aſcenſion
is 33°42', which, ſubſtraćted from the former,
leaves the arc of direction for the given years 38°
56; the »'s oblique aſcenſion to the pole 44°, is
290° 48', to which I add the arc of direction
38° 56', and I make the ſum 329° 44', which
the o arrives at in the ſaid year. I find this
in the ſame table of oblique aſcenſions : 16°,
in North latitude 3° 50', that is, the ſame ) is
(t) where the ſignificator arrives by direétion.
6& R.E.M. A. R. K. A B L E N A TiVI Ti E.S..
in that latitude; but the declination of this place
for longitude and latitude is 12° 50'; the O’s
declination is 13° 34'; h’s declination is 11° 34';
therefore the 9: in that place obtained a mean de
clination between the O and H . But, as the 6)
was conjoined to h, and in the mundane parallel
of 3, he was endowed with their deadly qualities;
from which iſ being alone in his ºk, could not re
lieve him. By a converſe direétion the P applied,
to procure a mundane parallel with the Q and b,
whilſt all were carried away by the motion of the
primum mobile. But if a 26° 45', are poſited in
the medium caeli, this ray, by a true calculation,
exactly agrees, for the D's ſemi-diurnal arc is 4°
44; ſemi-diurnal arc of the Ø's oppoſition is 5* 6;
which added together, make the ſum 9h 50'; the
p's right aſcenſion is 271° 58'; her primary diſ
tance from the medium caeli is 26° 45' of ze, whoſe
right aſcenſion is 204° 48', being thereia poſited is
67° Io'; the right aſcenſion of the @'s 8 is 213°42';
and the right diſtance between the and 8 of the
o, becomes 58° 16'; therefore, if that ſum, 9%
50, gives the P's ſemi-diurnal arc 4° 44', the right
difference 58° 16', will give 28° 3, which ſub
#račted from the D's primary diſtance from the
medium taeli, leaves the arc of direction 39° 7":
ſhe likewiſe applied to the mundane parºſlel of
& ; and laſtly, to the 8 of g, which direction
may eaſily be calculated.
-
- -
R E M A. R. K. A. B. L.E . N AT IV. I.T I. E. S. $t
--
. For the ſecondary direáion, I add to the hours
of the nativity 39 days 12 hours, for the ſame
humber of years and 6 months, and I come to the
th of June, 1587, nearly in the meridian, in
hich the places of the planets were as under:
- * * * -
- ** -
- - : . . . . .
* - a - . . . . . . . ; *
º
– or --D-H h – it 3 || 3 || 8 || 8
Fºl II - if H 8 ºf . ; ſº ºr II |2-
Lon. 13.43 || 14.24 fo.45 | 16.38 *42s 28.5shortolà.31
t S., | S. 1 S., | N. J. S. s.
‘Lat. - || 4.28 || 2: 9 fo. 5 || 1: 5 || 2.10 |*|
- . . . t... . . . . .
The D under the O’s rays produced to him and
the O with & B. in the parallel of 11's declination;
but nº was adverſe to the ſign of the luminaries; in
Oćtober, 1624, in which the native died, there was
a fulle in c. 12°, with 3 retrograde in 6 with 3 and
parallel of h, and to the ſecondary direétion in the
parallel of 3, and to the nativity in the parallel of
2 and 3 .
The progreſſionsdepend on the 6th of July,1590,
or on the following day, becauſe the day is not
known when the native died, yet the planets were
nearly as follow.
. . . . . - L Deg.
82. R E M A. R. K. AB L E N AT IV. IT I E S.
O ) 7| | | 3 2 || 3 || 3
Degl as m | 1 | < | as 8 || Sl
of - —l—-
Lon. 14.33 17.42 || 21.33 |9.33| 13.28 29.56 |8.37 4.46
N. S. N. N. N. N.
Lat. 3.25 | 1.36 | 1.32| o. 3 || 3.11 || 1.22
The O was with 3, the D with the D of h; in
the month he died, h was above this place of the
P, and 3 in the D of the D's place, and the lu
nations in an hoſtile ray to this place of 3, and
alſo of the O. -
C O S M A
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I T I E S. 33
C O S M A T H E S E C O N D,
GREAT Duke of TuscANY.
E died in February 1621, being 30 years and
9 months old.
Argol ſays the pole's elevation is 43°, the O's
aſcenſion 64° 34', the aſcenſion of h & 94°42',
and ſubſtraćts the arc of direction 30°8'; then the
horoſcope's 244°, the aſcenſion of h 8 274°42',
and ſubſtraćts the arc of direétion 30°42': but I
confeſs I am ignorant how it can happen, that the
ſame arc of direction ſhould fall to the ſame pro
miſſors of the ſecond ſignificators, who are 3°
of the equation diſtance from each other, for the
oblique aſcenſion of the O in 8 246° 58', from
which ſubſtraćt the oblique aſcenſion of the horo
ſcope (as given by Argol) there remains the o’s
diſtance from the 7th houſe 2° 58'. If the o
ſhould remain upon the cuſp of the 7th houſe, the
arc of direétion of the O and the horizon would
certainly be the ſame; but as his diſtance is 3°,
there is no reaſon why at the ſame time of the di
rečtion the O and horoſcope ſhould both arrive
together, the former at the 3 of h , and the latter
at his 8.
L 2 Again,
$4 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I y I Ti E. s.
Again, the o’s aſcenſion 64° 34', it is uncer
tain in what manner it was taken for h’s aſcen
fion; 94°42' is the deſcenſion, for the arc of his 8
is 274°42', from which take 180°, there remains
the deſcenſion of H 94°42'. But the oblique aſ
cenſion of the D’s 8 is 246° 58' given, his deſcen
ſion 66° 58'; therefore the calculations of Argol
are to me unintelligible.
In this nativity there ſhould aſcend m 15°43';
the o, fignificator of life, was firſt dire&ted to the
3 of 3, but as the A of h followed about the
beginning of nº's orbs, the native was preſerved :
then he was found in the 3 of h, whoſe latitude
was 1°39 South, and paſſed through, by a lati
tudinal diſtance, according to the doćtrine of Pto
lemy. -
The place of the direétion was likewiſe in the
orbs of , , and the o at that time was in the H of
11 in mundo from the medium cali, all which pro
fited the more, as the 9 in the nativity was con
joined to 2 in her houſe, and within the orbs and
mundane A of it; therefore he eſcaped the o,
and alſo the 3 ºf , yet, I think, without a great
detrimeit to his health, and that having 3 de
ſcended below the horizon, and in the equal pro
portional diſtance the o is at from the 7th houſe,
the o entered into its mundane parallel at the time
of his death, being found within the orbs of 3 in
the zodiac. - - - -
- - - Alſo,
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v IT I E S. $5
Alſo, the O to the parallel of H in mundo, hav
ing paſſed by § , who, together with 2, was found
under the parallel of the enemies, and the D in the
D of 3, whereby a complaint in the head was
pre-noted, without doubt the more grievous, as
the D in the nativity was in the G) in mundo D.
A calculation of the O to the mundane parallel of
3's direct direction follows (u).
Semi-diurnal arc of the G) - - - 7 *:
His diſtance from the 7th houſe - 7 34
Semi-noëturnal arc of 3 - - - 4 34
His ſecond. diſt. from the 7th houſe 4 41
Oblique aſcenſion of 3 8 - - - 265 34
His primary diſt. from the 7th houſe 26 9
which being added to his ſecondary diſtance is 31
for the arc of direction, and being equated as
uſual, produces 31 years almoſt.
The next is the O to the parallel of h in mun
do (w).
H. M.
Semi-diurnal arc of b - - - - 7 34
His diſtance from the 7th houſe - 34 ss.
Semi-nočturnal arc of the O - - 4 48
His ſecondary diſtance - - - 22 39
Oblique aſcenſion of the G 3 - - 246 58
His primary diſtance - - - - 7 33
which, as he is above the earth, and poſited below,
muſt be added to the ſecondary, and makes the
(u) The Sun to mundane parallel of Mars, direct dire&ion.
(w) The Sun to mundane parallel ofSaturn, direct direction.
atc
86 R E M A R K A B L E N A T IV. I T 1 E. S.
arc of direétion 30,12. But from this example we
are taught carefully to obſerve the places of the g,
for if the fortunes aſſiſt, they preſerve, particularly
near their orbs, as it happened in the preceding
direction.
For the ſecondary, I add to the hours and days
of the nativity 30 days for ſo many years, and 18
hours for 9 months, and I come to the 12th of
June, I 590, nearly, in the meridian in which the
places of the planets are :
O ) 7| || 3 2 § 3
Deg. II -º- II | = | II | 8 || II | Q.
ſº. 20.4o | 16.45 | 18.12 |8. I c. 26.45 º Sºſa.g.
- N-I-T-I-T-
Lat. 4.36 | 1.35 | 1.42 | c. 5 1.55 o. 24
Where you ſee the o is between h and 3, §
conjoined to 3, and both unaſſiſted by any of the
friends. In February, 1621, the lunations hap
pened in the meridian angles of the nativity, in the
o's D with the parallel of 3. The progreſſions
for full 30 years, depend on the 14th of Oétober,
1592: For the 9 months I add 9 or 10 ſigns, and
come to the 4th or 5th of November; for we are
not certain of the day he died : this is certain,
that on the 4th of the ſaid month there happened
a full e in 11° m. To the middle of February,
1621, 3 was found in 11° m.
L E W IS
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT I W IT I E S, 2?
LEWIS CARDINAL ZACHIA.
E was made a Cardinal in 1626, on the 19th
of January, aged 68 years and Io months.
He died on the 30th of Auguſt, 1637.
For effects, Argol directs the horoſcope's D to
the O; whereas, the one is not aphaeta, nor the
other anareta; for the O is conjoined to 2, and
in her declination, to which the D applies by a for
tunate, ſhe alſo makes application to the n and
declination of it, being conſtituted in his orb; ſo
that to the o ſhe tranſmits none but fortunate qua
lities. We therefore, in imitation of Ptolemy,
make the hyleg, who after her firſt dichotome in
her increaſe, approaches neareſt to the fulneſs of
light when conſtituted in the ninth houſe, and be
tween the rays of the friends.
She, in 70 years and 5 months which the na
tive lived, arrived at the parallel declination of 3,
that of Ł ſucceeding near as 18°, without the
aſſiſtance of the benefics (x). (y) I firſt look
for the declination arc, which is due for 70 years
5 months: the O in 70 days and io hours from the
birth, comes to II 17°, whoſe right aſcenſion is
(x) The Moon to the parallel declination of Mars.
Øy) Canon XXIV.
75
$g R e M A R K A B L E N AT I V IT i E. S.
75° 52'; from which, ſubſtraćt the G’s right aſcen
fion 8°, remains 67° 52', the arc of direétion. The
D’s declination 15° S, 19° 35', whoſe horary times
are 17° 35', her right aſcenſion 122°40'; this ſub
ſtraćted from the medium caeli, gives her diſtance
22°42'; the pole of the ninth houſe is 18°, which
produces the D's pole 12°, under which her 3
oblique aſcenſion 305°57', to which I add the arc's
direction 67° 52', and the ſum is 13° 49', which in
the table of oblique aſcenſion is near 18° of p, with
latitude 1°28' North, which the N obtains there;
ſo that ſhe paſſed as 18°, with 1° 28′ South lati
tude, the declination of which is 8° 26'; but the
declination of 3 is 8° 43'; yet the luminaries, as I
have mentioned in another place, do not wait for a
true and intimate declination, by reaſon of the
magnitude of their bodies. -
By converſe motion the D ad mundane D of 3,
and , follows (2), the declination of 3 8° 43 ×
7°46, whoſe noćturnal horary times are 16° 25';
the right aſcenſion of 3 339° 56'; his diſtance from
the inum caeli 14° 34'; the D's declination 15°, Q.
19° 35', whoſe horary times are 17° 30', which
gives her ſecondary diſtance from the 7th houſe 15"
34'; the oblique aſcenſion of the D’s 8 under the
pole of the horoſcope is 317° 38', from which ſub
ſtraćting the oblique aſcenſion of the horoſcope,
there remains the y's primary diſtance from the
(z) The Moon to the quartile of Mars, converſe motion.
feventh
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT I E S. 89
ſeventh houſe 82° 16'; the ſecondary 15° 34', ſub
Ítraćted, leaves the arc of direétion 66°42', near
1° leſs than that taken; the D had alſo, about two
years before, arrived at the D of H. by converſe
motion; but, as ſhe in the nativity was very for.
tunate and ſtrong, theſe directions waited for an
increaſe of the direét directions.
This example, alſo teaches us, that the ſenti
ments of Ptolemy were concerning a violent death;
when in a peremptory place both the enemies meet
together, it is to be underſtood, that in the (a) na
tivity the violence is firſt pre-ordained from the
unhappy poſition of the aphaeta; at other times,
quite the contrary. But becauſe the direct direc
tion chanced to be within the orbs of 8, the fick
neſs was attended with a delirium and lethargy, ſo
that you may perceive this to have been the na
tive's death. -
It may be aſked, why did not the 3 of H with
the 8 of 3 , and their preceding parallels, kill,
as they received an addition of ſtrength from the
aſpect of the enemies Anſwer, Becauſe the was
in a different and diſtant latitude from that of the
enemies, and had the declination of ; and the o ;
there were the rays in the k of n!. Both in the
zodiac and in the world, within the orbs of 2, ſhe
was likewiſe fortunate and ſtrong to reſiſt. Laſtly,
there was the parallel of 3, who is of the nature
(a) Violent death,
M of
so R E M AR & A B L E N AT I v 1 T 1 E. S.
of it, on account of the ſign and mundane A of
it and parallel of 2 ; ſo that § was entirely pro
pitious. For which reaſon, he was the author of
the dignities in the native, as we have calculated in
Canon LVI. and ſhall hereafter add; for neither
the O nor medium cali had any effect or aſpect with
it in the 59th year, nor with 2, who being com
buſt, could not effečt any thing, except only pre
diſpoſe the O, by being preſent with her. The
ſecondary direétions till the time of death are thus
calculated. For the 70 years I add 70 days; and
for the 5 months 10 hours, to the day and hour of
the nativity; then I come to the 28th of May,
1567, with 19%. 13, P. M. at which time theſe were
the places of the planets; the had the ſame decli
nation as h 9°, and both the enemies.
) b 7| || 3 § &
Deg. I | = | 7 | < | 8 ||a ! is m.
i. 16.30 26. o 8.54 28R5 H 9. of Rs º,
- N N. + N. S.
Lat. 4.33 ± 2. 4 || 1.5o ſo. 2of 1. 6 | 1.54
º
- In the nativity the had likewiſe, by the direc
tion, the ſame declination; this place of the D's
8, Š entered on the day he died, 3 too not
far diſtant; the o in II 17°, which h entered
from a parallel declination on the day he died; and
On
R E M A.R KAB L E N AT Ivi ties, or
on the contrary, the O, on the ſame day, entered
the place of h of theſe motions.
l 1
h - º -----, - . º -
'he Places ºf the Planets on the 30th ofAuguſt, 1637.
- - - i - - ? - - - i i - - -- ;
I
→
r
T-T—T-HT |
H -
5 || 1 || 3 || 3 || 8 || 2 ||
*|† ºf H ºf + e |-St-H ºx-H & ºf
o
Lqn.; 7.3 10.44|| 19.23 || 7-16 || 16.33426,42 28.33 #34-36
T º I. *
On the 19th of Auguſt there was a remarkable
new in º 27°, when ſhe was in South latitude.
3° nearly, whereby ſhe obtained the declination of
the enemies, and near the 8 of the p’s place of
the ſeconday direction. We look for the progreſ
ſons to the day of death, as follows: For 60 years
I come to the 20th of March, 1572, but I go 55
days back, viz. to the 24th of January, when the
D is in II 8°; afterwards I advance Io emboliſmi
cal lunations, and come to the 14th of November,
by poſiting the D in × 27°. For the 5 months
the D goes over 5 ſigns and 12°, ſo that ſhe is po
ſited in "R 9° above the enemies of the nativity.
-
-
-
. . . . :: *- : . . *
-
* . .
f - --- * - - * * * ~ * *
- M 2 Planets
92 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N A T L V IT I E. S.,
* *
Planets Places in the Progreſſions.
G) D R 11.
peg. ºf "g in :
of — * * -
Long, 15.0 9.0 |21. 14 1.o 28.5o 21.1o 27.o 15.o
2 § - || 3
:Tºr m. I gº
Mars was then in 8 to the of the nativity; H
on the day he died was in the parallel of the o’s
progreſſion on the 13th day, which was that of his
death; there was a D of the D with the o, the,
latter continued in sl 21°, in the D of h’s pro
greſſion from 8 21°; and 3 was found above the
I of the nativity, and h in the D of the Y's
place of her right direction. To the 59 years the
G came to the # of 8, not only in the world,
according to the calculations in Canon XXXVI.
but alſo to his + in the zodiac.
* *
Of the O.
Right aſcenſion - - - - - 8 o
Diſtance from the imum caeli - - 42 38
Semi-no&turnal arc - - - - 5 47
Crepuſculine arc ſubſtraćted - - 1 44
Remains the obſcure arc - - - 4 3
Of
R E M A R KAB L E N AT IV IT I E.S., 93
* . - Of 8 21°. . . .
- - - - 2 - H. M. Ç,
Right aſcenſion - - - - - 48 33.
Diſtance ad imum cali - - , – 83 II “
Semi-noëturnal arc - - - - 4 47
Crepuſculine arc - - - - - 2 7
-
Remaining obſcure arc - - - - , 2 40
| And the ſecondary diſtance is 28°4, which ſub
ſtraćted from the primary, leaves the direétion's
arc 55°7'. The ſecondary direétionsto the 58 years,
9 months, and 20 days, are made on the 17th of
May, 1567, with hours P. M. 4h 33, in which
the planets were as under: . . . . . . . ." . . . . .
O H | 1. & 2. : 92
Deg. II | < | my | < | x II g; m
Lon. 5.30 |2. o 8.30 |28R 5o 25.8 26.24 |o. 141 56
* *
Lat. 2.30; 2 - 5 I. 5 I o. I 9 || 1.44.
The O in exact biquadrate of n! and A of the
> on the 18th and 19th of January, 1626; the lu
minaries were in an alternate A ray, and toward
theſe places, and nº was in the ſame ſign and de
gree, viz. c. 29°, with the biquadrate to the place
of the G)'s ſecondary direétion. On the 12th of Ja
nuary, 1626, the O in ºf 22°, the 5 in ga 22°, in
the rays favourable to § and the place of the G's
- º direétion,
st: RE M A R K AB L E N AT Ivrt 1 Es.”
direction, and k of it of the progreſſions, and the
oin the quintile of it's radical place. The progreſ
ſions are made on the 19th of December, 1571, in
the following poſition : -
6 || > | }. | 21 | 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
Deg. ºf : m 36 * | Vºf # St.
of l—!— —
Long. 8.0 23-ol 13.14 | 18.10 sa- 9.0 | 20.6 || 3:0
-----
*: -
. Theo was in 6 with 2, and between the quintile
and + of n!, in the parallel of § ; on the 19th of Ja
nuary, 1626, 2 was above this place of the O,
1ſ turned away from the + and applied to the
quintile of the o’s place of the progreſſions, which
things are well worth obſerving.
DOMINICK
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v 1 Ti Es. 9s
D o M I N I C K
U A R D IN A L G Y M N A SC U.S.
HEN he was 52 years and 10 months old,
r he was created a Cardinal, on the 9th of
June, 1604. His death happened on the 12th of
March, 1639, aged 87 years, 7 months, and 20
days. -
Argol directs the horoſcope to the D ; but the
true aphaeta is the O, who, according to our cal
culation, came to a parallel of h’s declination near
13°, with ſome minutes, of the ſign m. : the G)
does not reach the centre of the 9th houſe,
but his diſtance therefrom is 2°: the polar eleva
tion of the 9th houſe is 28°, thereforethe 6's polar
elevation will be near 17°, to which the oblique
aſcenfion of the o’s 8 is 313°37'; the oblique aſ
cenſion 13° of 8 is 35° 35', from which ſubſtraćt
ing that of the G), leaves the arc of direétion 81°
58, which, turned into time, is 88 years, and the
b had not yet exactly reached the declination of
H. ; but as, by reaſon of the magnitute of his body,
he could not, through his own centre, gain that
declination, yet a part of his body entered it.
By
96 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v 1 T 1 E. S.
By a converſe direétion the O was in a mundane
parallel with H. (b), under the e, whilſt both ad
vanced by the motion of the primum mobile, which
is calculated thus: The o’s ſemi-nočturnal arc is
4” 42'; the ſemi-noëurnal arc of h is 7h 4, which
I have taken with 13° 47' of m in the ecliptic, or
with: 16° 13', which is the declination of h; I add
theſe arches together, to make 11h 46. The right
aſcenſion of H is 32.2° 52'; this I reječt from the
o’s right aſcenſion, in order that I may have their
right difference below the earth, and the remain
der is 164° 44'. I now ſay, -
- H. M.
As the ſum of the ſemi-nočiurnal are 11 .
is to the ſemi-noëturnal arc of H - 7 4
ſo is the right aſcen, diff of h from o - 16444
to the ſecondary diſtance - - - 99 io
The primary diſtance of H from the imum caeli
is 18° 13'; this ſubſtraćted from the ſecondary,
gives the arc of direétion 80°57', leſs by 10 (c)
than that above taken : this parallel precedes ſome
what, the other, ſucceeds. Laſtly, the o, by a
converſe direétion (d), applied very cloſely to a D
of the D , whoſe declination is 13° 23', which is
to the ecliptic : 24°36, whoſe ſemi-no&turnal arc
is 6° 55'. The O’s ſemi-nočturnal arc is 4°42';
the oblique aſcenſion of his 8 327° 1'; his primary
(b) The Sun to the mundane parallel of Saturn.
(c) Canon XXXII. and XXXVII.
(4) The Sun to a quartile of the Moon, converſe motion.
diſtance
R E M A R R A B L E, NAT I v IT I E.S. 97
diſtance from the Weſt 75° 56': the D's right aſ
cenſion is 329% ; her diſtance from the imum cºli is
12° 2'.
-------------------------------- H. M.–
i As the f's ſemi-diurnal arc - - |- 6 55
is to her diſtance fromimum celi - - 12 2
i ſo is the o's ſemi-nočturnal arc - - - 4 42 .
tº to his diſtancefrom the weſt---, -8. It
Therefore the primary diſtance added to the fe
coniº, mºisºfºrºsiº, New
they was ſurrounded between h and the mundane
parallel of 3 , who was elevated above her from
medium cali, and aſcended nearly with h , conti
nued in his houſe, orbs, and triplicity, ſo that ſhe
aſſumed the miſchievous nature of the enemies;
at the ſame time the Q's dire&tion to the Weſt
agrees with the addition and ſubſtraćtion of the
parts formed from interjacent ſtars and rays,
'a calculation whereof we have given as an example
in Canon XXXVIII. The ſecondary directions
are made on the 14th of October, 1551, with the
hours 17° 35, P. M. at which time the planets
were poſitedthus : – -----------
| *O jº: ºf || 3 | tº '8: | Q
, --——— --|--|---—
eg. . . . . - 1. 1
|*| " | *_|_ºf__* | *, *, *| ".
Lon. 1.0 7, o 13.24; 2. 7 || 16.3317.2019.2d 3.27
# * | | | |ºs. d -s. N. . s. s." | S.
Lat: . . .432 || 1,14] o.º.o o.º. 3. c. 12.35 - :
N - The
f
93 K E MAR KAB L E N AT 1 v i t . E8.
The progreſſions depend on the 19th of Auguſt,
1558, with the planets poſited thus : . . . .
* *
o || | | | | | | 3 || 3 || 8 || 2
Deg. my m || 8 || : Su gº | Su ‘Y”
of - :
Lon. 5.13 |18.o. 25. 4 || 3.18 13.50 |22.o. 21.30 21.4
S. S. S. N. S. N.
Lat. I - 2.16 2.23 o.52 o.16 1.46 | 1.7
He died on the 12th of March, 1639, 10 hours,
P.M. under this calculation of the planets:
o h | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2
|Deg| x | n || 2 | t | 8 | x | <
|Lon. 22.13 || 25, o 14.13 || 5.46 |6. 8|28. ‘clzº.4of 23.16
s. | S. N. | N. . s. N. -
Lat.] . . . . . o.11 . o.51 || o.56 |o.22 o.23 o.1o .
- **** * * *
On the 4th of the ſame month there was a new
y, near the 8 of 3 ofthe nativity, and 3 was in
8 1° 8 to the o’s ſecondary direétion: on the
day he died, he reached the place of the 5's ſe
condary direétion, and in of the o’s radical place:
the o, by the ſecondary direction, had gained the
declination
* * Markable Nativities, sº
declination of the D of the nativity, and the D from
the U of the O, with the ſame declination. The
O by progreſſion had nearly the ſame declination
with the D in the nativity: the D by progreſſion
was between the rays of the enemies, and under the
parallel of both the unfavourable planets, to which,
on the day of his death, h and 8 being conjoined
by a quadrate ray, tranſmitted their miſchievous
qualities; and, which is worth obſerving, when
the luminaries, together with h, were anaretic
in the nativity in fixed ſigns, in them alſo they
were conſtantly found in the ſecondary direétion
progreſſion, and on the day he died, as were like
wiſe 3 and 3 .
In the 52d year and 10 months, the o was
directed to the proper k, the medium caeli to his
quintile; the calculations of which are eaſy. The
ſecondary direétions are made on the 9th of Sep
tember, with near 22h 30', P. M. at which time
the planets were as under ; -
- - - § - - *T* |
o | 8 || || T. § || 3
* * 2 || 2 | g | < || m nº m.
or -ī-l- - -
Lon.|26.20' 6.cł 16.6 27.56 21.52 || 19.25 || 22.1o 25.18
TheO was in the k of n! and in the 3 of 2, free
from the enemies. The progreſſions were thus,
and are made on the 27th of October, 1555, whilſt
the D was in ºr 5°.
; , ; ; ; ; , , N 3 Deg.
ice K E M A R k AB I, E N AT i v i + 1 Es.
... ', " : " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
F … | | | | | | | | . . . ."
o' || | | || 3 || 3 || 8 || a
ºf mi | * | * mº, ºf m m || n
Long. isis sº 7.17 13.56 "26.,
. . . . . . . . - * ; : `I .
o.o l'8.20 1527 -
--
. . .
~ == * : * :
... ii ºo ºr ºf tº . .” - . . . . . . . . ...,
. The O. was in 3 to iſ and g, free from the
enemies, near the A of iſ of this nativity.
: On the day of elećtion, which was the 9th of
June, 1604, the planets were as under: .
. . . . . . . . . . . , ; ; ; ; , . . ;
T 4: ; - - - - - - -
O }) P 1. 3. Q
II.
I
gº-|
8
Deg.
of . : * * * - - - - - - -
Long. 18.20 17.14 || 1 1.46; 19.18 12.25 28.28|2.6 5.22
º
m | f | f | -a. gº
There preceded a new. D in 7° of II, under the
sk of the G) of the nativity, and parallel of it, in
which the O was on the day he was elected; and
the in a A of n of the nativity, and progreſſion
in 3. Hence is plainly evinced the great power
the ſecondary direétions and progreſſions have, to:
gether with the active and paſſive ingreſſes, to the
place which the luminaries by theſe motions ar.
rived at. - -
* - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ 2: "T
- - * * * - * * * - - - - -
ºn 1 º' ' ' ' ' tº º
- - - - -
- - -
º
-
- * * * - - t º
*-* ; : , , * * * in t * * *
* º: - ºf " . ."
- 4 c. *. CHARLES
R E M A R K a B L E N AT Ivities, toº
*
- -
-
* *
chARLEs cARDINAL Pius,
N the 19th year and a half of his age he was
elected a Cardinal, on the 9th of June, 1604;
and in the 56th year and a half he died of the gout
and conſumption, June the 1ſt, 1641, for which
time Argol directs the horoſcope to a D of h,
though he is of the ſhorteſt aſcenſions, and the o,
not the horoſcope, becomes a powerful ſignificator
of life when found in the laſt cardinal ſign, and the
rays taken in the zodiac to the cardinal are alto
gether as nothing, as we have in another place de
monſtrated (a). - - -
As therefore the G is the fignificator of life in
the 56th year and a half (b), he gains by a right
direction the mundane parallel of 3, followed very
cloſely by that of h’s declination, and, by a con
verſe motion, the parallel of 3 (c). The o’s ſe
mi-diurnal-arc is 4h 28, his right aſcenſion is 290°
51', from which ſubſtraćting the right aſcenſion
medium caeli, there remains the O’s diſtance 6° 16'.
The ſemi-noëturnal arc of.3 is 5h 3, and is taken
from & 21° 30', to which the declination of 3 is
... (a) Angles have nothing to do with aſpects in the zodiac.
(b) The Sun to the mundane parallel of Mars.
... (c) Canon I. and XXXI.
- - reduced
sea RE M A R K AB L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es:
reduced 14° 25'; but the ſecondary of 3 from the
imum cali is 7°5, and added to the primary 49°35,
for the right aſcenſion of 3 is 154° 10', and makes
the arc of direction 56°43', which is 56 years and
a half. The O's polar elevation is near 5°, under
which his oblique aſcenſion is 292°54'; to this if
weadd the directionarc 56°40', the ſum is 349°34,
which, in the ſame table, is equal to x 18° 10,
whoſe declination is 4°42', and that of h 1°40';
ſo that the 9 applies, within 3°, to a parallel of
h's declination. -
. The Q converſe to a mundane parallel of 3,
the calculation follows: H M.
As the ſemi-noëurnal are of 8 - - 5 3
- is to his diſtance in the imum caeli - - 49 35
- ſo is the O’s ſemi-diurnal arc - - - 4 28
to his ſecondary diſtance medium caeli - 43 51
which, added to his primary, quotes 50 7
for the direétion's arc; ſo that it had preceded near
ſeven years before. -
The o, by a converſe direction, had now like
wife exceeded the ſeſqui-quadrate of h in the 49th
year. The ſemi-diurnal arcof his 5 54, diſtance
from the Eaſt LI*46, the O's ſemi-diurnal arc as
above; hence ariſes this ſecondary diſtance 8°54,
which, added (d) to the primary, makes theo's
arc ofdireétion to the D.of h,oby a converſelmo
*
“(a) The sunſeſquiſquadrate of Saturn, by converſe no
tion, - - , , . . . . . . . . . . - - -
J . . . . .
- * : * : * ~~ tion,
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v IT J E.S. to:
**
tion, 15° 10'; to which I add the o’s triplicate
horary time 11° 9, and it completes the are of
direétion of the O to the ſeſqui-quadrate of h,
48°37.
The ſecondary directions are made on the 6th
of March 11h, P. M. 1585, at which time the
planets are poſited inthe following manner:
- . . . . . . . . - - - - -
i . * - ºn i
| O | | | | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2–
Deg. >{ | 8 |*| 8 || Q. ºr 26, m.
º * 3:33 17.30 |6. 1 3.3, t 5.7 R 21.494-4-0 R. 17.59:
. . . . . . . . . S. S. N. | .N., l f :
|* | o. * |1.47 *|4.9 º, 3-54 f
• , , º
The progreſſions are made on the 3d of Auguſt,
1589, for then 56 years and a half emboliſmical
lunations are finiſhed. Theſe are the places of the
planets: * * * *
º
* -
º -- - | || 3 | 8 || 8 || 8
# Deg. Sl s [n]º Tim a ſm. Tº
- l
| Long, lio.37 || 13.22. 12.c. 18.9 14.17 | 12:20 8.9 |22.49
O ) W.
º - s, s. | N. S. N. N.
| Lat. 5. c || 2 || 1, || 1. 7 | id-57 | c.57; !
t s l i – * . . — — 1 –
zoº R E M A R K A B L E N A T 1 v 1 T H E S.
On the 16th of June, 1641, the planets were
thus poſited :
o D | } | at | 3 || 2 || 8 || 8
Deg. II >{ { }{ } : ga - g5 # 8 - || m .
of - -
Long. || 11.5 22.48 || 1 1.46 || 2: il 13.14 |21. 1, 17.32 || 10.27
N. S. S. N. N. S.
| lat. " 3.53 || 3.37 |o.4of 1.13 |2.2.1] 2.34 |T
º –". . . . . zº li
I
In which it is admirable, that the o, on theday
he died, was poſited above h of the progreſſion,
and hion the ſame day above the O of the ſecon
dary *aº, tlie D above 8 of the ſecondary
direction, who had the declination of h, and the
D likewiſe gained the declination of H in the ſe
condary direction, the y being likewiſe in D of 3 y
and the declination in the progreſſion of 6 in G,
and declination of 3, the in the 8 of the ſame
& , whilſt 3 paſſed through to the 8 of the o of
the nativity; there was a D of the D with the G)
the preceding day, viz. the 31ſt of May, conti
nuing in × IC”, and the O in II 10°, obnoxious
places. You ſee, Reader, how variouſly both the
aćtive and paſſive agreements happen; they are al
together wonderful. —At the time of his being
made a Cardinal, the G was in the mundane pa
rallel with 3, whilſt both were carried by the
motion of the primum mobile; the o likewiſe came
to
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v IT I E s. 105
to the declination of 2 : the calculation of this lat
ter is eaſy (e). The declination of 2 is 18°19',
equal to ::: 9°20' in the ecliptic, whoſe oblique
aſcenſion to the o’s pole 5°is 313°24', from which
ſubſtraćting the G’s oblique aſcenſion, there re
mains the direction's arc 26° 30', which being
equated, points out nearly 19 days and one third.
The Sun's direétion to the mundane parallel of
2 is as follows: ... " -
The declination of 2 is 18° 9, equal to ::: 9°
in the ecliptic, whoſe ſemi-diurnal arc is 4° 47',
the right aſcenſion of 2 is 315° 58': therefore the
right difference between the Ó and g is 25.7 (f).
I then ſay,
-- H. M.
As the ſum oftheo and 3's ſemi-diurnal arc 9 15
is to the O's ſemi-diurnal arc - - - - 4 38
ſo is the right difference - - - - - 25 7
to the o’s ſecondary diſtance - - - - 12 8
which, added to the primary, makes the direction's
arc 18°24'; therefore it had preceded two years, in
which the native had ſhewn himſelf deſerving the
honours conferred upon him. But as the O con
tinued, by a right direction, in : 9° 20', he ap
plied to the quintile of n! in the zodiac; at the
ſame time the medium caeli had reached the quintile
of 11, whoſe declination is 8.33; aſcenſional dif
ference 8.21 : the ſemi-diurnal arc is 98.21 ; the
(e) The Sun to the parallel declination of Venus.
(f) The Sun to the rapt parallel of Venus,
O - third
1 of, R. E M A R K A B L E N AT I W I TI E S.
third part of the ſame arc is 19.40, which ſhould
be the diſtance of n! from the horoſcope when po
fited in the quintile to the medium cali. The
oblique aſcenſion of 11 in the horoſcope is 16.16;
by ſubſtraćting therefrom the horoſcope's oblique
aſcenſion, there remains his primary diſtance under
the horizon 1.41; this added to the ſecondary 19.40,
makes the direction's arc 21.21.
Laſtly, the O made application to the + of n! in
mundo (g); for, -
H. M.
(b) As the O’s ſemi-diurnal arc - 4 28
is to her diſtance from medium caeli 6 16
ſo is it's ſemi-diurnal arc - - 6 33
to his ſecond, diſt. from 12th houſe 9 12
The obl, aſcen. of the ſame houſe is 344 35
The obl. aſcen. of n! to the pole of
the 12th houſe 33, is - - - 19 1
therefore the primary diſtance of 1ſ from that houſe
is 34,26, from which ſubſtraćting the ſecondary
diſtance, leaves the direction's arc 25.14, whereby
it appears evident that the o' and medium cal:
were, at that time, found between ſeveral aſpects
of the friendly planets. The ſecondary directions
are made on the 28th ofJanuary 1585, with 9h 35,
P. M. under the following conſtitution of the
ſtars:
(g) The Sun to the ſextile of Jupiter in mundo.
(h) Canon XXXII.
Deg.
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT Iv1t 1 Es. 107
O | D | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2 |
q.
Deg. : : ºf ‘Y | Sl 36 : m
Lon. 8.4o | 18.8 || 2.0 |27.38|28.40R 6.13 | 16.0 |zo.o
N. S. S. - -
Lat. 4.14 || 15.7 * 4- o | 1.17 | 1.o
The progreſſions for 19 years and 5 months fall
on the 5th of Auguſt 1586, the D being in ºr 15°;
the reſt you will ſee poſited as under:
O | | | | | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8
Deg. & | * 8 gº; ga ng Sl *
of
Lon. 12.1 | 15.9 2.46 || 4.19 || 6.50 | 2.41 || 4-33 |zo.36
On the 9th of June, 1604, the planets were
found in this poſition:
O | D | }. 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
§
Deg. II m. £ f º: ga ga m.
of -
Long. | 18.20 || 17.14 || 1 1.46|| 19.18 12.25 | 28.28 2.6 |5-22
Where you ſee the o in A to his place of
the ſecondary direétion, and in + to his pro
greſſion, applying to the k of 11 of his ſecondary
O 2 directions,
1c3 R.E.M.A. R. K. A B L E N AT I V | T 1 E. S.
directions, and in parallel of his declination of the
progreſſion. Jupiter, on the day of his eleētion, ,
entered in A to the o’s progreſſion, and alſo b
ill-diſpoſed from the A of 3 : from the # of the o
and iſ there preceded a new ) in 7° of II in an
exačt A of the o’s ſecondary direétion, and + to
his progreſſion. -
This cannot but be convincing.
ANTONIO
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV IT I E S. 109
A N T O N I O
CA RIDINAL FA CHINETTE.
- E are told by Argol, that this Cardinal
had a dangerous illneſs in the 7th year of
his age, owing to, as ſome authors ſay, the direc
tion of the horoſcope to the 3 of h; (i) but we
will have it to be the o’s direction to the by a
converſe motion : for the D's pole is 16°, to
which her oblique aſcenſion is 352° 48; this ſub
ſtraćted from the o’s oblique aſcenſion o’7, leaves
the direétion 7° 19 ; for the D was in the a to h >
by which means ſhe aſſumed his nature. The O
alſo, by a right direétion, afterwards fell into the
mundane ſeſqui-quadrate of F, whence a long
ſickneſs was the conſequence, h being particularly
in the weſtern cardinal ſign; for thus we have the
true cauſes from the real ſignificator of life (k).
At the age of 16 he was eleēted Cardinal; from
the O’s direétion to the quintile of n! in the zodiac,
the o’s duplicate horary times are 30°, his oblique
aſcenſion to the pole 18°, of the eleventh houſe
o°7', and his diſtance from the ſame () houſe 3°
(i) The Sun to the conjunětion of the Moon converſe.
(k) The Sun to the quintile of Jupiter in the zodiac.
(l) Canon XII. - r
41 3
sro R E M A. R. K. A B L E N A T L V IT I E S.
41'; the pole of the twelfth houſe is 33°; the dif
ference then of the poles of the eleventh and twelfth
houſes are 15. Therefore the o’s pole becomes
20°, to which his oblique aſcenſion is 8°; the quin
tile of n! falls in 19° 41' of ºr, whoſe oblique aſ
cenſion there is 15° 20', from which ſubſtraćt the
o's oblique aſcenſion, there remains the direétion's
arc 15° 12'; which equated, denotes 16 years.
This direétion is differently calculated. -
He died in May, 1606, and, according to Argol,
from the D's direétion to 3 ; but it was impoſſible
for the D to be hyleg, as ſhe was under the rays,
going to the occultation; and as the nativity was
diurnal, the firſt place belongs to the O, who re
mained in the eleventh houſe; I come to the 3 of
a (m), where the ſeſqui quadrate of h in the zodiac
exactly coincided, and, by a converſe motion, the
O found the in a mundane parallel, whilſt both
were carried away by the motion of the primum mo
bile. The oblique aſcenſion of 3 to the pole 20°,
is 27° 38', from which ſubſtraćting that of the o, .
the direction's arc is 27° 31', which added to the
O's right aſcenſion, makes 27° 39', to ºr 29°45',
at which the O arrives in near 31 days; and as
& was in North latitude after the 3, following
his parallel of the declination, the calculation
of the O's parallel with the D is thus (n): The
(m) The Sun to conjunction of Mars. -
(*) The Sun to the parallel of the Moon by rapt motion.
the
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT I E S. tra
the o’s ſemi-diurnal arc is 6°, and that of the D
5°23, for her declination anſwers in the ecliptic to
near 5° 30' of x. I add theſe ſemi-diurnal arcs
together, and the ſum is 11° 23'; the D's right
aſcenſion 349° 48', the O o' 8"; from this I ſub
ſtraćt the D, and their diſtance in right aſcenſion
is 10° 20'; theſe give the o’s ſecondary diſtance
from the medium caeli 5° 27'; his primary 33°42';
from taking the ſecondary, there reſts the direc
tion's arc 28° 15'.
The O alſo applied very cloſely to the mundane
D of h, by a converſe motion.
The ſecondary direétions for 31 years and 2
months are made on the 11th of April, 1575, with
near 2 hours, P. M. the planets remaining in the
following manner:
O | D | } || || || 3 º § 83
Deg. || 8 || 8 8 8
of
Long. I. c. 9. 19 19. 16 || 4.35 | 26.14 || 13.36 || 29.39 || 29.14
gº, ... 8 8
S. N. N. S. N.
Lat. 1.48| 1.48 o,8 o.30 | 1.47
The progreſſions are made on the 15th of Sep
tember, 1577; whilſt the D was in the latter part
of m, the ſtars were diſpoſed in the manner fol
lowing:
Deg.
a 12 R E M A. R. K. A B L ET N AT I W IT I E S.
Ó D | H | | | 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
Deg. ce m ºf 1p. my. Sl mg cy.
of
Long. 2. 10 |22.o 5.30 || 24.4o 20.40 | 16.40 || 28.0 | 12.8
To the middle of May, 1606, the time the
native died, there was a ti of the luminaries, with
this conſtruction of the ſtars :
G) D 11 || 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
Deg. || 8 || Sl ºf . × f 8 II mg
of
Long. |24.o 24.c] 7.40 o.o 8.o | 18.20 | 12.o 28.2 |
R R
P
The luminaries entered from the D the place of
d and 8 conjoined of the ſecondary direétions;
H from the D of the O’s progreſſion, who was
there in the D of H, and the G) by progreſſion came
to the 8 of his place in the nativity, with a D of
H. , as we have ſaid, and was in the return of the
year in the ſame place to the Ó unfortuned by a B.
ray.
ANTONIO
T. E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV-1 T I ES... 113.
A N T ON I O M A R 1 A
CARDINAL DE SALVIATIs.
E died April 16, 1602, aged 65 years, 2
1 months, and 15 days. We commonly
reckon this nativity among the ſeven which we have
extraćted from Maginus, as examples. To 65
years andthree months the native lived, we have
judged the direction of the b , who is hyleg, ac
cording to a right motion to the fixed ſtar Cor
Leonis, and parallel to the declination of 3 and
the o, but, according to converſe motion, to their
ta, which direétion ought doubtleſs to be eſteemed
ſufficiently powerful to infer a fatal fickneſs, eſpe
cially in an old man. Now, after having well con
fidered the matter, we add that the o, by converſe
motion, found the mundane parallel of h (Ma
ginus takes the E of h to the horoſcope in the
equator, and Argol, in the ſame place, adds the
antiſcian); the D being the fignificator, having dig
nity of life, the calculation of the p’s direétion to
the fixt ſtar of Regulus, and parallel declination of
the o and 3, is as follows: The p’s declination
23° 54, aſcenſional difference 24° 26', ſemi-diurnal
arc I 14° 26, the third part of which is 38°9', the
P - - polº.
314 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I T I E.S.
pole of the ninth houſe 18°; the D's right aſcenſion
is 83°38, her diſtance from the medium cali 10° 24;
therefore, -
- © - - D. M. º
As the third part ofthe ſemi-diurnal arc 38 o
is to the pole of the ninth houſe - 18 o
ſo is the D's diſt. from the medium caeli Io I
to her pole - - - - - 4 o
To which the oblique aſcenſion of the D’s 8 is
265° 25', the oblique aſcenſion of the 8 ofRegulus
in that place is 326°54'; from which ſubſtraćting
the former, leaves the direétion's arc 61° 31',
which, equated, points out 65 years 4 months of
his life; the D in that place was in North latitude
4° 32', and conſequently her declination was 18°3;
the o’s declination was 17° 20', and that of 3 18°
5o'; the D therefore turned between the declina
tion of the O and 3. Again, by reaſon of the
magnitude of the O and D's bodies, and alſo on
account of the parallax the D had already gained,
and the o’s declination declining from that of 3,
who being combuſt, did not diſcover his effects;
but the O, inſtead of him, according to the opinion
of Carden. The D's converſe direction to the
mundane parallel of h is thus (o): The ſemi-diur
nal arc of h is 100° 58', his right aſcenſion 157°
30, his diſtance from the medium caeli 63°28'; the
p’s ſemi-diurnal arc I 14° 26'; theſe give her ſe
(o) The Moon to the parallel ofsaturn, converſe motion.
condary
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I W IT I E S. 115
condary diſtance from the medium caeli 71°56', her
primary 10°24'; which, ſubſtraćted, gives the arc
of direétion 61° 32'.
The D's direétion to the n of the O by con
verſe motion (p). The o’s ſemi-noëturnal arc 106°
56', diſtance from the imum raeli 40° 11, the D's
femi-diurnal arc I 14° 26', which gives the ſecon
dary diſtance from the 7th houſe 43°; oblique aſ
cenſion of the D’s 8 288°; from which ſubſtračt-,
ing the horoſcope's oblique aſcenſion of the D's
primary diſtance from the ſeventh houſe, becomes
103° 58'; there remains therefore the arc of direc
tion 60° 58'. The ſecondary directions are made
on the 27th of March, 1537, at which time the
planets were poſited in the following manner:
O | D || ||2 || 1 || 3 2 § 3
Deg. or m mg ºr 3é 8 § II
Long. 17.0 4- ol 1.31] 25.17 28.57 26.28 6. o 14.15
| N. N. s. I s. | N. s.
Lat. 3-17|1.56] 1- 5 o. 6 o.49 2- o
−
The and # in an exact diameter of the 8 had
the declination of h, both there and from the
nativity. The progreſſions to the day of his death
were as follow: For 65 years they are finiſhed on
(p) The Moon to the quartile of the Sun by converſe
motion.
P 2 the
:Y 16 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I TI E.S.,
the 25th of April 1542, the continuing in my
27°, for 2° and a half; the D p
May 1, 1542.
}
oſited in f. 17°,
u | 3 || 8
O || | | }. g
Deg. | 8 || 4 || m || my m | II II | >{
of |-|--
| Long. 20.41%.o. 4.28R19.13R 8.18.R. 15.ok 7.16R 6.22'
i -
- S. l N. N. S. N. N * A
Lat. 5."o 2.55 | 1.45 c.5 || 4 4 | c.29
*
*
It is remarkable, that all the planets are retro
grade at the death, at which time they abound with
diſeaſes; on the 16th of April, 1602, the ſtars con
tinuing in the following manner:
| 6 || 5 || 8 || 1 || 3 || 2 | 8 || 2
Deg | Y | < | m * | * | * | 8
º, 25.45 18,40 28.17R 16.22R. 3.25||13.16|14.54R 16.57
º – N N. | N. N. S.
Lat. 4.17 | 2.56 2. 4 |3. o. I. of 2.47
There was a new on the 6th of April,
the O remaining above his place of the ſecondary
Therefore, on the day he died, h en
direction.
tered from a n the place of the D's diameter in
the zodiac, and was (the D) poſited in 8 with
nearly
P. E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v IT IE S. 117
nearly the ſame declination, H in 8 of the o’s
progreſfion; the o by progreſſion entered that of
a , and the proper parallel of the 5, on the 16th
of April, was poſited in a parallel next the [] of
h and 3 of the progreſſion; h on the ſame day
in a parallel of the o’s declination of the nati
vity, and of the place of the D's direction in the
zodiac. . . . . . . . . .
On the 13th of December, 1553, when he was
46 years and near 11 months old, he was created
a Cardinal; the o by a right direction came to a
parallel of hi's declination in × 22° 35, which is
the declination of at 2°57'.
Of the o.
- - - H. M.
Semi noćturnal arc - - - - 7 7.
Crepuſculine arc - - - - 1 43
Obſcure arc - - - - S 24
Right aſcenſion - - - - 3I4 13
Diſtance from the imum caeli - 4o 11
Of x 22° 35'.
Semi-noëturnal arc - - - 6 11
Crepuſculine arc - - - I 39
Obſcure arc - - - - 4 32
Primary diſtance from the imum call 79 io
Right aſcenſion - - - 353 12
The ſecondary diſtance is then 33° 44', which,
ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves the direction's
arc 45° 26, which, equated, gives 48 days; but the
effect anticipated this direétion 8 months: If, how
ever,
als R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v i Tiz s.
ever, the place of it be true, as to longitude and
latitude, or becauſe the luminaries are uſually an
tecedent by the magnitude of their bodies, in the
directions to the parallels, as is ſeen in the other
calculations, for the O, 3 years before, had, by a
Converſe direétion, arrived at the k of 2, therefore,
the difference of 8 months is but ſmall. The ho
rary times of 2 are 16° 37', her diſtance from the
fixth houſe 1° 38'; for the oblique aſcenſional 8 of
2 is 152° 24; the o’s horary time 17° 49', whence
ariſes his ſecondary diſtance 1945 from the imum
cali, and, added to the primary, Inakes the direc
tion's arc 41° 56'; theo’s ſecondary direction, by a
converſe motion, to the k of 2 in mundo, for 46
years, 1o months, and Io days, are made on the 9th
of March, 1537, with 6h 12, P. M. under this
coeleſtial conſtitution :
o | | | | 3 || 2 | 8 || 8
Dºg. | x |x|*| * }{ || 8 || Y’
of
Long. 29.o |-se 2.4 zo. 52 || 4-2of 4.36 || 14-o 15.5o
The progreſſion for full 47 years, on the 10th
of November, 1548, when the D was in ºr 10°.
One ſign 24°, for the one month and 20 days,
muſt be ſubſtraćted from the aforeſaid place of the
y, who will be in 2: 16°, and the reſt diſpoſed in
the following manner:
Deg.
R E M A R R A B L E N AT I v I T1 E S. 119
."
o H. | * | 1 || 3 || 3 || 8 || 2
p.s.fm F = F2, a ºf A ſm ºf
Lon. 4.ol 16.0 22.2 h 28.8 1o. 56 17.56 $45 5.o
December 13, 1583, the Stars were thus poſited:
O | } { } || 7 || 3 2 t; 83
Deg. | f | f | }{ | }{ f Vºf f £
f -
lºs. zo.36 13.4|17.o. 20.4 25.24 7.6R |ro.28RI 11.46
There had preceded a full e, the O being in
f 7°, the 5 in II 7°, under the A and + of it of
the nativity.
You ſee, that the O on the eleētion day was
in the exact A of n! of the ſecondary direétion,
and applied to the A of the ſame progreſſion; and,
on the contrary, nº on the ſame day was in A to
the Q's progreſſion, and applied to the ſame of the
ſecondary direction, which indeed is wonderful.
Add to this, that ?, on the day he was made a
Cardinal, was in the + of the D of the ſecondary
direction, and the S on the ſame day was poſited
in the A of § of the ſecondary direction, for he
was a very learned man.
In
as R E M A R K A B L E N AT v i t I Es.
In the ſecondary direction the D is in the k of |
$ in the progreſſion, in the A of 2, which ad
ded to the famous and good offices of the friends, ſ
the o’s declination 15°, was in the # of 2 of the -
progreſſion, and the A of § of the ſecondary
direction. -
, PHILIP
R E M A R K AB L E N AT Ivi T H E S. 12;
PHILIP cARDINAL SPINELLI.
- E died May 26th, 1616, aged 52 years, 4
months, and 12 days, at which time the
º, who is aphaeta, as being the conditionary lu-'
minary in the centre of the horoſcope, came, by
a right direétion, to a favourable parallel of h’s
declination in m 15.48, where ſhe is in 3° 53 S.
latitude, the declination of which place is 20.20;
a parallel of ºf ſucceeds: but becauſe there is at the
fame time a mundane parallel of 3 to the D, and
ſhe by a converſe motion in a D to 3, aſ could
be of no ſervice. The 9's direétion to the paral
lel of H is thus calculated : The D’s declination is
6° 25', which, in the ecliptic, is equal to ~ 16°,
whoſe noćturnal horary times are 15.55, which,
added together, make 31°50'; the D's oblique aſ
cenſion in the horoſcope is 187.51, from which
there remains her diſtance from the Eaſt 5° 51'; the
pole of the ſecond houſe is 30°, therefore the dif
ference of the pole of the firſt and ſecond is 11°.
- H. -
As double horary times - - - 31 :
is to the polar diff. ofthe 1ſt and 2d 11 o
ſo is the y's diſt. from the Eaſt - 5 51
to her pole - - - - - - - - 39 or
Her oblique aſcen. under this pole is 187 28
QL. The
... R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v 1 T 1 Es.
The oblique aſcenſion of h in 15° 35' of m, with
3° 33' S. latitude, is 239° 32', from which ſub
ftracting the D’s oblique aſcenſion, there remains
the direction's arc 52°4', which, equated, gives
52 years and near 3 months.
The 5's direction to the mundane parallel of 3
is thus: The oblique aſcenſion of the 3 of 3 under
the horoſcope is 229.32; from which ſubſtraćting
the oblique aſcenſion of the horoſcope, there re
mains the primary diſtance of 8 from the Weſt
47° 32'. . . . . - H. M.
As the D's ſemi-noëturnal arc - - 6 22
is to her diſtance from the Eaſt. - - 5 51
ſo is 3's ſemi-nočturnal arc - – 5 o
to his ſecondary diſt. from the Weſt - 4 38
which, added to the primary, as this is under, the
other above the earth; makes the direction’s arc
52°10'. The at the ſame time came, by a con
verſe motion, to the D of 3. . . . t
- - H. M.
As the ſemi-diurnal arc of 3. - - 6 57
is to his diſtance from the Weſt - - 47 32
ſo is the D's ſemi diurnal arc - - 5 38
to her ſecond. diſt, from medium caeli 38 32
Her primary diſtance from medium cali is 90° 16',
for her right aſcenſion is 182° 16', from which ſub
ſtraćting the ſecondary from the primary, there
remains the direétion's arc 51° 44': the ſecondary
direétions are made on the 25th of February, with
19", P. M. the D remaining in my 8°." -
- - - - - Deg.
R E M A R KAB L E N AT I y I T 1 Es, 124
o! | 8 || | | | | | | | | a
Deg. >{ | "g | g5 gå II || Y ºr Vºf -
of - * * * * * - - * - : -- -
Lon. 17.o. 8.o. 28.56]:28,2] 4, 16 || 4.52 || 2.16 || 4, 16
1–3 * +- -
The progreſſions for 52 years exactly follow the
19th of March, 1568; whilſt the continued in
t 19°, for 4 months and a third, ſhe came to 8 9°,
on the 30th of the ſame month, when the planets
were in the following poſition : . . .
• - - - —-
o: D | H | || || 3 || 2 || 8
Deg, º | 8 || 7 | t as × | *
of - - - - *
Lon. 19.5o 9.0 || 22.46 | 8.18 26.32 6.34|2.35 | 15.9
S. S. f. N.' I s. . . s. s.
Lat. 2.2 || 2: * | 1. 9 9.10) 1,343. 5
82
tº
May the 26th, 1616, theſe were the places of
the planets : . . . . . . . . . .
º —l - r.
O | } | H | | | 3 || 2 || 3 | Q
8 -
Deg. I II 20
of
Long. 4.53|7.45| 4-27 | 26.9 || 5-58 || 2.54 || 19. 1 || 13-57
S. N. N. S. -
Lat. o.35 o'A8 || 1.9 o.16 | 1. o 2.1o
Q-2 ; : . . The .
124 R. E M A R k AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es.
The D was in the ſecondary direétion in a D to
3; and on the day he died the O entered the place
of 3, and in a to the 5. The 6, by progreſſion,
leaving the parallel of %, applied to the D of 3,
who was in 3 of the 6's place of the nativity: on
the ſame day H and 3 entered above the 5’s pro
greſſion; the D likewiſe on that day, with a fa
vourable declination of h’s progreſſion, goes to
the 8 of the Ó and a of 3's progreſſion; buty
what is moſt important is, that the Ö, on the fa- *
tal day, entered above 3 in the ſecondary direc
tion, far from the b's fituation. But the princi
pal effects muſt be taken from the P.
In the 41ſt year and 10 months of his age, Argol
ſays he was dangerouſly ill, and lays down the man”
ner of his death by ſuppoſing it to be from the ho
roſcope's direction to the D of it; but we, from
the D to an 8 of 3. The p’s oblique aſcenſion
187° 28, under the pole 39°: the oblique aſcenſion
of the 8 of 3 is 228° 36'4; froin which ſubſtraćt
ing the former, leaves the direétion's arc 41°8',
which, cquated, denotes 42 years, though the ef
feót was very flew; nevertheleſs, if the place of
8 be true, for other tables place him in 8 9°, the
difference is but trifling, and if the direétion is
* It is to be obſerved, that 228.36 is the oblique aſcen
ſion of the oppoſition of Mars, with his contrary latitude
1.26 South; but if the Moon's latitude had been confidered
in the place of direction, it would have been 4.57 South,
and the oblique aſcenſion 230,24.
- - made
RE M A R k A B L E N AT I v 1 T 1 E. S. 123
made to the 8, that which goes before will be
found in the zodiac; the D alſo, by a converſe di
rečtion, reached the Inundane parallel of 3.
* :
As 3 's ſemi-diurnal arc - - - - 6 57
is to his diſtance from the Weſt - - 47, 32
ſo is the D's ſemi-diurnal arc - - 5 38
to her diſtance from the Eaſt - - 38 32
This added to her primary diſtance - 5, 51
makes the direétion's arc - - - 44 23
But if this nativity be encreaſed one degree, this
direction agrees nearly. . -
The ſecondary direétion, on the 14th of Fe
bruary, 1564; the D remaining in ºr 13°, that
is to ſay, 14h 27, P. M. At his death, 3 was
found in ºr 18° above this place of the D, ſhe be
ing in 3 to h, and in the declination of 3 of theſe
motions.
The progreſſions are made on the 5th of May,
1567, whilſt the D had ºr toº, applying to 3 be
ing in ºr 15°, and in the ſame place at his death;
the D therefore had arrived at the 8 of his radical
place. On the 5th of March there preceded his
death a full o in my 14° above h of the progreſſion,
and parallel there of 3, according to the doćtrine
of Ptolemy, in the laſt Chapter of his 4th Book.
But if you obſerve, in the examples, the equal
progreſſion now commonly uſed, you will find
- little
sa6 R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es.
little or no agreement between them; ſo that you
may perceive they are altogether falſe and uſeleſs,
In the 41ſt year, when the native was created a
Cardinal, the medium cali, having ſtopt firſt at a
6 of it, came afterwards to the biquintile of 3,
who aſſumed the nature of it from that biquintile
ray, and partly of 2 from the parallel of the de
clination, and 8 remained very ſtrong in the cen
tre of imum caeli, when the ſatellites of the lumi
naries were fortunate, the O of 2, the D of n!
from 3: ; the declination of g is 24°4', aſcenſional
difference 22°50', and ſemi-nočturnal arc 112°56;
the 5th part is 22° 34', and, doubled, 45°8'; the
right aſcenſion of 2 270° 22', whence his diſtance
from imum cali becomes 1°38', which, ſubſtraćted
from the duplicate of the 5th part of g’s ſemi
noćturnal arc, there remains the direétion's arc
43° 30, which denotes 41 years: but if the nati
vity be increaſed 1°, the time agrees exactly. Ar
gol places 8 in 8° of : : in this he muſt certainly
be miſtaken.
The o had gained the ſeſqui-quadrate of it by a
converſe motion: the oblique aſcenſion of iſ under
the pole of the 11th houſe 16° is 120.43; the
oblique aſcenſion of the o’s 3 is there io9° 21';
this ſubſtraćted from the former, leaves the o’s
diſtance from the 8 of iſ 11.22. The Ó's ho
rary times are 18. 19, which, triplicated, are 54°
57', ſince the diſtance of the ſeſqui-quadrate ray
- from
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v IT I e s. sar
from the 8 are the triplicate horary times; from
theſe, therefore, ſubſtraćting the O’s diſtance from
the 8 of n!, leaves the direction's arc 43.35. The
{econdary direétipns fall on the 14th of February,
1564, when the O was in the exact biquadrate of
24, the D in A. -
FABRICIUS
*23 R E M A R K A B L E N A T.I. VIT I E S.
F A B R 1 c 1 U s
C A R D IN A L V E R O S P J U S.
E died January 27, 1639. The D in this
nativity poſſeſſes the horoſcope, and as ſhe
is the conditionary luminary, the ſignification of
life belongs to her. At the time of his death,
which happened when he was 66 years and 10
months old, ſhe came, by a right motion, to a
parallel of h’s declination, and by a converſe mo
tion was in a mundane parallel with him; whilſt
both were carried away by the motion of the pri
mum mobile. Laſtly, ſhe came very near the 6
of 3 . -
Argol directs the horoſcope to the A of 3,
who is in a ſign of long aſcenſion; ſhe, therefore,
does not take the nature of a D ; ſo that the »,
not the horoſcope, is ſignificator of life. The di
rečtion to the mundane parallel of h is thus calcu
lated:
The declination of H anſwers to m 7° in the
ecliptic, whereof the ſemi-diurnal arc is 5h 9; the
y’s declination is adequate to in 29°, whoſe ſemi
diurnal arc is 4' 54. I add theſe arcs together,
and the ſum is 10° 3. The right aſcenſion of h
- - 1S
- -, -
*-
# E M A R k A Bi E N AT 1 v It is s. 11,
is 224° 14, and that of the 259° 17'; the dif
ferente is 35° 5'; therefore,
- - - - - - - - H. M.
As the ſum of the ſemi-diurnal art to 3
is to the ſemi-diurnal arc of h - 5 9
ſo is the difference ofright aſcenſion 35 3
to the ſecondary diſtance of h in the
medium caeli - - - - - 17 58
The primary diſtance of h is 44° 33', which
added to 17°58', becauſe h moves from the aſcend
ant to the deſcendant parts, makes the directional
arc 62° 31', which, equated, denotes the age of
66 years and to months.
To the parallel of the declination of h, the p's
oblique aſtenſion under the pole of Rome is 278°
16, to which I add the direétion's arc 62° 31',
which makes 340° 47'; I look for this in the ſame
table, and find it near the end of the ſign ::, where
the b gains near 2° South latitude, and I find it
in 2 preciſely 23° 14, of which place, together
with 2° South latitude, the declination is 15°42',
and that of H 14° 2'; ſo that the had not yet
exactly reached the declination of h, either be
cauſe the place of h and the D are not yet exaëtly
true, or that the luminaries in the directions to the
parallel of declination always precede, as we have
ſaid, in producing the effects of the true time of .
the parallel; or laſtly, becauſe the preceding di- --
rečtions and agreement of the other motions were
urgent, which frequently happens.
R} The
13, R EMA R K AB L E N AT rv It i Es.
* The to the 6 of 3. The pole of 3 is 9°,
his oblique aſcenſion 196° 39'; the D's oblique
aſcenſion under that pole is 262° 32'; from which
ſubſtraćting the former, leaves the direétion's arc
65°53'; ſo that the D was but 3° diſtant from 3.
The ſecondary direétion happened the 12th of
May, with 8h 5, P. M. 1572, when the ſtars
werethus poſited . . .
- - - - -
*
| | || O | D | }. h! 3 $ | 3 || 3
|Deg. Ir II m ‘Y | "g | g | II, gº
of +---
Lon. H 1.4o 12.o. 19.44 | 19.46 29.6 || 7.o 9.o 25.30
* * * | | | S. N. H. S. N. . . N. S.
- | Lat. 3.25 2.51 || I. Io o 4-1 II.44 |o. 39
* ,
º The progreſſions are made the 1ſt of Auguſt,
1577, whilſt the had in × 2.2°. . .
G) ..I.T.T.T., a
a
Deg. Q || 3 | ºf, ſ, & a ºr
of -
* | Long. | 18.2c |22.c5.54|| 15.2 21.39|26.47R 17.57R 14.31
S. N. N. N.
Lat. 1.54|o.4ol 1. 4 || o. 6
S. S.
4.49 || 3.38
January
R E M A R KAB L E N AT I V IT I E S.: 13r
|
- . . . - -, * * * * : * ** - . . . • * ~ * -
* * • - - ; : * * * : . . . . * * . . . . . "
January 27, 1639, the planets were placed in
the following manner:. . . "… * . . . . . . . .
, ; ; , , , º, o . . . ;
* I ºf -º º
7| || 3 2 § 3
O | D | },
Deg. : m. || 3: | f | Y’
º
: :
Long. 7.31] 22.40 1.52 4.30 || 2.12 26.22 26.29
Lat. 2.48 °.4 o.53 o.13 o.55 o. 8
The preceding day there was a D of the D, the
e remaining in 2 7°, in the D of h’s ſecondary
direétion, and the D in 7° of m above h, and with
the declination of his primary directions, viz. that
of h of the nativity. On the day he died, the D
paſſed from h’s radical place to the n of the O,
and 3's progreſſion; who, with & retrograde,
were conjoined in the 8 of the p’s place in the
direétion, who, in the ſecondary direétion, being
poſited in the diameter of her radix, made the year
climaéterical, and likewiſe in the progreſſion was
poſited in the D of the radical place ; but the pre
ceding D of the luminaries, as it happened there
in an hoſtile aſpect of Ł , who was in a parallel of
the declination and 6 of the O and n of the D;
and laſtly, the enemies configurated to the place
of the D's direétion, who is hyleg; and 3 in ºr
R 2 5°
ria. R E M A R KABLE N AT IV. It Es.
5° from the fourth houſe of the nativity, impeded
the D in her radical place. . It is very evident, to
her it belonged to produce the effects denoted by
the direétion of the ſame to the aſped of H.
Theſe agreements are indeed truly wonderful tº
PETER
*E M A R K a B L E N AT 1 v IT 1 Es. 133
P E T E R
GARDINAL ADROBANDINE,
Edied the 10th of March, 1621, aged 49
+ years, 11 months; eleēted a Cardinal in
January, 1592, being at that time near 20 years
and 10 months old.
Argol ſpeaks of this nativity in the laſt edition
of “CR1tical Days,” page 184, and places
the P in 8 25°, and direéts the horoſcope to his
D in the soth year, reječting the o, to whom
belongs the ſignification of life; but the D, ac
cording to the common Tables and Ephemeris, is
poſited in II 25°, and that that direction will not
be the D, but the +. Now we, in imitation of
Ptolemy, make the G) entirely aphaeta, who, in 49
years and 11 months, comes to the mundane pa
rallel of Ł , both by a right and converſe motion.
A calculation of the right direétion is thus: The
o's declination is 7° 34, aſcenſional difference 6°
52', ſemi-diurnal arc 96° 52', right aſcenſion 17°
47', diſtance from the medium call 17° 47'; h’s
declination 9°6', aſcenſional difference 8° 18', ſemi
noćturnal arc 98° 18, right aſcenſion 210° 6', pri
mary diſtance from the imum call 30° 6, the pro
- duce
154 RE M A R K An L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es.
duce is h’s ſecondary diſtance 18° 3'; this added to
the primary diſtance, makes the direétion's arc
48°9', which, equated, gives 50 years.
The converſe direétion is thus:
H. M.
As h’s ſemi-nočturnal arc - - 98 18
is to his diſtance from the imilm cell 36 6
ſo is the G's ſemi-diurnal arc (q) – 96 52
to his ſecondary diſtance. - - - 29 40
which, with the primary, makes the direétion's
arc 47° 27', . But you are to obſerve, that the o,
when in 6 to 3, applies to a parallel of the decli
nation of h; wherefore as aphaeta, he denotes the
corrupt qualities of the body and ſhortneſs of life;
eſpecially, as from the medium caeli he by a D ray -
afflićted the horoſcope. -
. The ſecondary direétion falls on the 19th of
May, 1571, with 20° 49', P.M. under the fol- .
lowing diſpoſition of the ſtars: -
| O | | | b | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2
Deg| II | * | < | x | 8 || Y | II su
Lon. 8.o. 29.o 28.o 20.30 26.6 23.33| 6. o || 14.27
S. N S. S. S. S.
Lat. 4.5o 2.53 | 1.13 o.2| 1.23 o. 12
- - - -
- -
(q) The Sun parallel to Saturn in mundo.
The
* * * * * * * * * -
R E M A R K AB L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es. 13;
The progreſſions for full 50 years are made on
the 15th of April, 1575; therefore, for 49 years
and Io months, thoſe progreſſions are made on the
11th of April, the D remaining in 8 6°. For
the other, you may ſee as under: º -
* -.
G). || || | | | || || 3 2 § 83
Deg. | 8 || 8 1.
of
Long. |0.5c. 6. c. 19.o 5. 2 || 26.37 || 1 1.18 zo.21 || 29.5
gº 8 8 8 8
Lat. 1.57| 1.48 o. o o. 8 o-25 | 1.30
February Io, 1621, the Stars were thus placed:
O }) B 7| || 3'
Deg. : 8 m ºf Vºf
of --
Lon. 22.11 || 20.38 || 29.53 ||2.59 II. I 3 |14.28|25.58|Io.o
S. S. S. N. S. -
Lat. 3.46 o.39 o.46 | 1.40 o.34 || 1.35
2 § &
£
== II
In the ſecondary direétion the D was in 8 to H. ,
as well there, as from the nativity, the G) by pro
greſſion in 8 of h’s radical place ; the O, on the
day he died, in the D of 3 of the progreſſion.
In the progreſſion, the was in the ſame pa
rallel of H's declination, and nearly ſimilar on the
day
136 R. E M A R K A B L E N AT twi T if: $.
day of his death: on the contrary, the D on the
ſame day was found above h of the ſecondary di
rećtion. - -
Before his death there was an 8 of the lumina
ries, the o in 2: 18°, and the 5 in a 18°, in B to
& of the progreſſion and ſecondary direétions.
The common progreſſion is eaſily perceptible.
In the 21ſt year, the Q, by direétion, came tº
the k of 71 and 3 . -
JOHN
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v IT I Es. 137
J O H. N. G E O R G E
PRINCE ALD OBRANDINE,
E died May 16, 1637, at the age of 45 years,
6 months, and 15 days. -
In his nativity the o becomes entirely hyleg,
and not the horoſcope, according to Argol; for he
is in the centre of the medium caeli, and at the time
of death, in 45 years and a half, came by a right
direction to t 24.50, when he is afflićted by the
's ſeſqui-quadrate, having for ſome time been
under a parallel declination of H and 3, but
through a 6 with 2 and the orbs of the favourable
planets, and likewiſe, by a D of 3 in mundo, to
which the o, from to.o applied, he was pre
ſerved: beſides, it is to be obſerved, that both the
luminaries (r) were in motion by a converſe di
rečtion, and in a mundane D of h, who in the
nativity afflićted the horoſcope from the 8 and the
luminaries by a D ray in mundo, he being poſited
in the centre of the Weſt, whereby he denoted a
ſhort continuance of health, and had not 2, in the
exact mundane k, aſſiſted the O in the radical
place, the native would never have lived ſo long.
Laſtly, there was an application of the o by a
(r) Canon XXXV.
S converſe
13s R.E.M.A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV IT I Es.
converſe motion to the parallel of 3 in mundo,
whilſt both were carried away by the motion of
the primum mobile. The calculation is thus: The
o's ſemi-diurnal arc is 5.7, 3 's declination an
ſwers to 4:30 t, whoſe ſemi-diurnal arc is 4.39;
I add theſe arcs together, and the ſum is 9.46: the
O's right aſcenſion is 21558, and that of 3 307 28,
from which I ſubſtraćt the o’s right aſcenſion, and
the difference between them is 91° 30'. Now
H. M.
As the ſum of both ſemi-diurnal arcs 9 46
is to the o’s ſemi-diurnal arc - - 5 7
ſo is the difference of right aſcenſion 91 30
to the o’s ſec. diſt, from medium cali - 47 56
which, added to the primary, makes the direction's
arc 48° 2', which, equated, denotes 45 years. - *
In this example is proved the meaſure of direc
tions which we make uſe of; for, if we add to the
o's right aſcenſion 45°30', according to the com
mon method, we make the ſum 461° 28, equal
to t 22° 16', where 2 is parallel, who doubtleſs
preſerved him; and as our meaſure of the direc
tions brings the Q farther to 24° 30', and 2 being
in 3° 36' South latitude, ſhe was already far fe
parated from the o, as conſtituted in the orbs of
The ſecondary direétion, falls on the 16th of
December 1591, with 13%, P. M. at which time
the places of the ſtars were as follow :
-
---
Degs
* * Ma Akas LE N AT rvi + 1 Es, is
|| 5 | H it 3' || 3 || 8 || 2
Deg. t ºf 25 | f | x ºf f | #
O - - - —--|-}. —
Lon. 24.40 || 6.9 |19.29 |4.33 |7.13||1.38 R. 3.26| 6′49
N. s. | N. . s. | N. N.
Lat. I __|o. 4, 1.32 o.57 |0.52 | 1. 5 |o.49
The progreſſions for 45 years and a halfexačtly,
are made on the 7th of July 1595, the having
'18° 59'; to theſe I add 16°30' for the half month,
and the D is poſited in a 4° 30'; but the reſt, on
the 8th of July, 1585, are as follow : * * *
G) { }) ] }} 7. | & | 2 § 3
Deg. 1gs Q | &l || 4 || 4 || II | as ºr "
of - -
Long. |15.c4.30|22.45 || 3: 8 || 19.20) 7. o 20.0 |27.56
* A. *-i- ---
N. N. S. S. - || S. N.
Lat. 4.58| o .38 || 1.25 || 2.11 | 1.48 || 1.22 º
- • * * *
May 16, at th9, the planets were ſituated as
follow :
- S 3 peg,
140 R E M A.R. K. AB L E N AT I W IT i £ $1.
Q ]) P 7. 3. 2
:
|a
Deg. || 8 || < | ºf ng II 8 |
of -- - –1 - -
Long, 26.0 |zz.c. 25.18|25.24 || 6.52 io.46|19.15 28
Lat. 2. 2 o. 1 ( 1.29 cº- 1.17 cº
In the ſecondary direétions the D, with the 8
in 8 to h, and the 6 nearly in the parallel of the
declination of H. Theſe luminaries of the ſame
fecondary direétion of h and 3, on the day he
died, entered a very ſimilar parallel. -
In the progreſſion the o in t of 3 continued
above H ofthe radical place; the D in 8 of 3 of
the radical place, exačtly on the day of his death ;
the O in a of h of the progreſſion, and, on the
contrary, h in 8 with the parallel of the O's pro
greſſion; 3 had likewiſe the declination with him;
on the above days the 9 was found in the exact 8
of H of the progreſſion. •
The luminaries had alternately the B on that
day, with many other atteſtations of the ill for
tunes; ſo that the effect was not fruſtrated.
º ANDREW
*R E M A R K A P L E N AT IV. I T I E S. 141
ANDREW CARDINAL PERETTI.
I. this nativity, if the aforeſaid had 18° 37', ac
cording to the explanation of Argol, we freely
confeſs if the o were hyleg, no direction of his
would agree with the time of the native's death.
The dire&tion's arc for 56 years 8 months, is
61° 15', the b's oblique aſcenſion is 279° 41'; to
which, if we add the direáion's are 61° 15, the ſum
is 34cº 56'; anſwering to :: 27° in the ſame table,
obnoxious to none of the enemies.
Wherefore, as in this nativity the O begins to
be ſeparated from the horoſcope, if, to the time in
the nativity, a quarter of an hour is added, which
is probable, becauſe of the uſual difference between
the ſolar and civil horology, the prorogatory
dignity of life is taken away from the o, as he has
now left the horoſcope, and is transferred entirely
to the ; which that it is ſo, is confirmed by the
agreements of the D’s directions with the time of
death.
The native died the 4th of Auguſt 1629, aged
56 years and 8 months, at which time the D
came, by a right direction, to a parallel declina
tion of 3 ; the parallel of § preceding near f
21° 25, when the gains 2° North latitude, and
a declination
:42 R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v i T 1 Es.
a declination 21° 13'. Since indeed about the tro
pic the declination ſuffers very little variation; ſo
that the D for ſome preceding degrees participated
a parallel of 3 ; a ſubſequent A of it preſerved
him, owing to his 6 to the O; but the A of it
began now to ceaſe, and the D entered the orbs of
Th. Laſtly, there was, by a converſe direétion;
a mundane parallel of 3 to the ; the effect of
this parallel of 3 to the immediately appeared;
and at the ſame time the D, by a converſe mo
tion, came to the 8 of 3 ; and ſeeing ſo many
agreements of the part of the D concur, of conſe
quence the ſignification of life belongs to her.
We have ſaid, that the direétion's arc for 56
years and 8 months, for the D in 56 days and 16
hours from the nativity, arrives at 2: 16°8', whoſe
right aſcenſion is 3.18° 37', from which ſubſtraćting
the o’s right aſcenſion 2.57° 22', there remains the
direétion's arc 61° 15', which is due to the aforeſaid
years; the D's right aſcenſion is 199° 31', to which
adding 61° 15', the ſum is 260° 46'; this, in the
Tables of Right Aſcenſion, anſwers to £ 21° 25',
under the column of latitude 2° North, which the
I gains there, and is poſited in the declination of
3 (s). -
The calculation of the converſe to the mundane
parallel of the ſame is thus (t): The D's declina
tion 2° 5'1', anſwers to ~ 7° in the ecliptic, whoſe
(s) Canon XXXV. -
{*) The Moon to the mundane parallel of Mars,
ſemi
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v IT I Es. I45
ſemi-diurnal arc is 5° 50'; the declination of 3
21° 4'; to ºf 26°, whoſe ſemi-diurnal arc 4° 39':
I add theſe arcs together, and the ſum is 10°29.
The right aſcenſion of 3 304° 35': from which,
ſubſtraćting the D's right aſcenſion, there remains
the right difference between them 105° 4'; there
fore, -
H. M.
As the ſum of the ſemi-diurnal arc Io 29
is to the D's ſemi-diurnal arc - - 5 so
ſo is the right aſcenſional difference 105 4
to the D's ſecondary diſtance - - 58 28
which added to the primary (v) - 3 15
makes the direction's arc - - - 62 19
greater than that above by one degree; ſo that
this direction ſucceeded the year, and alſo the 8
of 3 , if the place of the D be true.
The converſe direction to the 8 of 3 is thus cal
culated: The pole of the ſecond houſe is 31°; but
as 3 is in 19 18' South latitude, and is in 19 diſtant
below the cuſp, the elevation of the pole is 30°,
under which 3's oblique aſcenſion is 315°; but the
oblique aſcenſion there of the D’s 8 is 17° 53,
from which, ſubſtraćting that of 3, leaves the di
rečtion's arc 62° 50'.
Argol reports that the native was ſick in the
44th year and a half of his age; at that time the
» came by a converſe motion to a D of h 's mun
(v) It muſt be added, becauſe the Moon has not paſſed
the mid heaven.
dane;
144 R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 V1 T 1 E. S.
dane; the direction is thus: The firſt is the
ſemi-diurnal arc of H; the ſecond is diſtant from
Eaſt by the oblique aſcenſion of the horoſcope ;
the third is the P’s ſemi-diurnal arc; the fourth
preceding number will be her ſecondary diſtance
from the medium caeli, which is to be added to
the primary, and the direction's arc equated, for
the 44th year and a half, is 48° 4'; but the lumi
maries ſeem very frequently to precede, in their ef
feas, the intimate application of the direction,
eſpecially in the parallel, as has been frequently
mentioned. -
The ſecondary dire&tion falls on the 25th of
January, 1573, with the meridional hour 12, un
der the following conſtitution of the ſtars:
) P 1. 2 § 83
12.36| 26.24 25.9 |17, c. 4, o 6, o 11.50
N. : | N S. S. N. N
4.17 | 2.10 | 1.20 |o. 10 2. & 1.53
The progreſſions are made on the 30th of June,
1577, the fiars in the poſition following:
Deg.
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v IT I Es. 145
O || > | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
m . g . su l Sl
Long. 17.2of18.o.S. 4|8.5o 29.58||11.49 || 12.24 || 16.22
Deg. grº, Vºf
N. | N. N. N. S. N.
Lat. 4.17|o.46] 1 - 9 || 1.14 || o.4o o. 15
On the 4th of Auguſt, the ſtars were as under:
O | D | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 3 || 3 ||
Pº. Sl 2: * : II & rig II
o --
Lon. 11.57 15.38 | 18.41 | 1.10 || 3.4o | 18.1 3.14|29.0
s. | N. s. S. N. . s.
Lat. 3.38 2.14 o.44 o.43 | 1.26| 2.39
On the day he died, there was a full e in the
n and parallel of H in the radix, and in his place of
the ſecondary directions, in which 3 was in the G.
of the O and parallel of the D. - On the ſame day
h was in the D of the O and D of the progreſ
ſion, and exactly above the place of the D's radix:
3 on that day had a parallel declination in the D's
place of the right direétion; ? had the + to the
» of the nativity, but was combuſt: On the above
day, the O was in an exact parallel declination of
H of the ſecondary direction, and the D entered
the ſame parallel, - -
T You
r
146 R E MAR KABLE N AT 1 v 1 T H E S.:
You ſee, Reader, how various and mutual the
agreements are, both active and paſſive, and yet
how exact. In the 24th year, the time he was
made a Cardinal, the O came to the quintile of 2.
in the horizon, near 13° 42 of ºf, who having
the fame declination with the o in the nativity,
the direétion is eaſy, viz. by the right aſcenfion;
for as many days as the 6 was ariving at 13°42' of
wº, ſo many years do they denote; the number of
days are 24; beſides, the Ó applied at the ſame
time to the mundane quintile of \{ (w), which is
thus calculated: ; :
I divide it’s noëurnal horary times 13° 58' by
5°, the quotient is 2°48, which, added to his noc
turnal horary times, is 16° 46, which is the 5th
of it's ſemi-noëturnal arc. - ---
I direét 11 to the D of the G) in the world thus:
D. M.
Ifthe horary times - - - - 11 15
gives his diſtance from the Eaſt - 5 59
What will hi's horary times - - 13 58
anſwer iſ 's ſecondary diſt. from the
imum caeli - - - - - - - 7, 25
right aſcenſion of n! 19°, his primary diſtance from
the imum cali 3° 20'; which, added to the ſecon
dary, makes the direétion’s arc of the O to the G
of h; 10° 45 t to this I add a 5th part of n!’s ſemi
noćturnal arc, taken as before 16946, and the ſum :
is 27° 31'; for the direétion's arc of the O to a
(w) The Sun to the quintile of Jupiter in mundo.
- quintile
" * *
R E M A Rºk AB L E N AT i v IT i E. s. 147
quintile of n! in mundo, turned into time, gives
25 years nearly. -
In this nativity, is to be obſerved a very noble
Satellite of the luminaries, particularly of the Q,
who was in the A of it and + of 2, viz. in the
world to 2 ; for 2 in ſuch a k, confers very great
honours on the O #: - * * * *
The ſecondary directions are made on Decem
ber 23, 1572, with 7h 54, P. M. and the pro
greſſion on the 25th of Oétober, 1574, almoſt in
the meridian, in which the luminaries were alter
nately in A, and both in exact A of it. "On
the 5th of June, when he was elected, (the lumi
naries were poſited alternatelyin A) were found
in A of 2 of the progreſſion, the o in parallel of
21, &c. º, c. : : - , , , ... . . . . . . .
Argol direéts the medium caeli to the k of 3 for
the 24 years; but the + falls in c. 5° 46, which
preceds, not ſucceeds, the medium caeli, and the
right aſcenſion, which it receives of the # of g.
213° 24, is 5° 46 of m, and not *.
* See in the other examples brought by Argol in the
Cardinals Lenius, Lanfrane, Borromeus; in George Prince
Aldobrandine, Charles I. Gonzago, Duke of Mantua,
Domini Molinus, Barnard Vamarius, and others,
T 2 OCTAVIUS
143 R E M A R K AB I, E N AT IV.I.T I E S.
. . . . .
& . . .
octavius CARDINAL BANDINI.
E died Auguſt 1, 1629, aged 70 years and
9 months; was created a Cardinal on the
5th of June, 1596, at the age of 37 years and
7 months. - . . . . . -
In this nativity, explained by Argol, 2 is to be
placed in * 12°, not 21°; and he direéts the ho
roſcope to the D of h in the zodiac: But as the
rays to the cardinal figns in the zodiac are rejećted
by us for very plain reaſons, and alſo by Ptolemy;
and on the other hand, the o’s arc of direétion
correſponds very well with the proper B in mundo,
whereby the prerogatory virtue of both, viz. that
of a right direét motion, and the other by a con
verſe, is injured, eſpecially by the ſubſequent pa
rallels of h in mundo, as will appear by calculating
them. * . . . . . - - - -
. It is probable, that the ſignificator of life be
longs to the O, and that he may obtain his dig
nity, the nativity muſt be lengthened ſome few
minutes; wherefore we add to the given hours
18 minutes. At the time of his death the o came
to the proper D in mundo ; the calculation whereof
is eaſy; for the O's ſemi-diurnal arc is 74°54, his
- - horary
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v IT I E S. 149.
horary times being 12°29'. The o likewiſe came
by a right motion to a mundane parallel of Ł .
H. M.
As the horary times of the O - 12 29
is to his diſt. from the medium caeli 34 33
ſo is h’s horary times - - - 12 33
to his 2ndary diſt. from the imum caeli 34 44
The right aſcenfion of h is 47° 31'; from which,
ſubſtraćting the right aſcenſion of the imum coeli,
leaves the primary diſtance of h in the imum caeli
42° 1'; which added to the ſecondary, makes the
direétion's arc 76°45; laſtly, the o by a converſe
motion, came to the mundame parallel of H. .
For as h’s horary times 12° 33' is to his from
the imum caeli 42° 1', ſo is the o’s horary times
12°29' to his ſecondary diſtance from the medium
caeli 41°48'; which added to the primary 34° 33',
makes the direction's arc 76° 21'; which equated,
denotes 70 years and nine months. The ſecond
ary direétions arc made on the 14th of January,
1559, with the meredidnal hours 15° 23', in this
ſituation of the ſtars.
O | } * | | | | | * § 83
Deg. ºf , t | 8 m |*| *
Lon. 24.29 || 15.o || 17.45 || 17.35 *E. 2O-O ! I 3-44,
2:
The
150 R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT I V I Ti E.S.,
The progreſſion for full 70 years, are made on
the 23d of June, 1564, the D remaining in ºf 3°;
for the other 9 months, we have the poſited
in a 25°30' ; the reſt on the 15th of July, were
as under ; , , . . . . . .
. . . .
| || 0 || | | | | | | 3 || 3 || 8 || 2.
Deg. | Sl | * Q. &l |. Sl fig Sl f .
Long. 2.27 25-30 |8. 7| 4:36 |27.30 17.6 °45.19 || 26.51
- || -- S. N. N. | N. N. . . . s.
Lat. 4.23 |o.39| o.38: o. 17 | 1.31 || 2.48 ||
On the 1ſt of Auguſt, 1629, the Stars were thus
poſited :
|,
2:
o || > | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
Deg. Sl ºf sº- II Q | *
of -
|...ſº 1o.o | 18.29 | 1.25 | 1.43 || 14-20 | 3.32 o.41
–4–
On the ſame day the G) entered the progreſſion
of h, and in the H of the ſecondary direétion of
& , , , and the D’s progreſſion, and the E of the
O’s ſecondary direction; 3 a parallel of the o’s
ſecondary direétion.
In
R E M A R K A B L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es. 1st
In 1596, the O came by a right direétion to
the + of it in mundo; likewiſe, to the quintile of
2, and parallel of the ſame, by a converſe
motion. - -
: The direétion to the # of it, is thus calcu
hted; ºr - - .
The o’s oblique aſcenſion under the pole of the
eleventh houſe 18°, is 225° 16', from which, ſub
ſtraćting the oblique aſcenſion of that houſe 21.5°
30, leaves the o’s diſtance from the eleventh
houſe 9° 46'; therefore, hi’s horary times 18° 21',
will give his ſecondary diſtance from the Eaſt 14°
21'. The oblique aſcenſion of it in the horoſcope
is 327° 13'; from which, ſubſtraćting the horo
ſcope's oblique aſcenſion, leaves the primary diſ
tance of n! from the Eaſt 51° 43' ; from this,
taking the ſecondary diſtance, the remainder is the
direétion's arc 37° 22'.
If you want to have the direétion to the pa
Hallel of 2, . by a converſe motion, ſay, As the
horary times of Q are to her diſtance in the medium
teli, ſo is the ſecondary diſtance to the horary
times, adding the fourth number to the o’s
primary diſtance, and the ſum will be the diree
tion's arc. -
The ſecondary direétion falls on the 2d of De
cember, 1558, with i i" 41', P. M. in the follow
ing ſituation of the Stars :
Deg.
152 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV. I Ti Es.
G) D | H | 1. 2 § 83
Deg. f tº 8 || 2: tº: m. m.
of -
Long. zo.43 |27.o '9.4|| 10.30 | 18.21 28.o 28.0 | 15.30
The progreſſion depends on the 8th of No
vember, 1561, the D remaining in f 16°; the
reſt as under :
o | H | | | 3 || 3 || 8 || 2
Deg. m t |gs | 8 || 3 | < | m =
of - -
Long. **** 6.5c 26.33 || 12.25 || 13.o 23.0 | 18.41
June the 5th, 1596, the Stars were poſited thus:
O })
Deg. II tº:
of
Long. 14.29 || 5.21 o.4 o. 31
P | 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
* 8 Q. gº; II- cy"
2.T.A. 23.31 || 3.18 || 10.22
On the ſame day the o was poſited in the A of
7ſ of the ſecondary direction, and A of 2 of the
On the contrary, 2, on the day he
was eleēted, was poſited in the A of the o’s pro
greſſion,
progreſſion.
R E M A R KAB L E N AT 1 v 1 TI Es. 153
greſſion, and in the k of the D's ſecondary di
rečtion; and the o in the A of 2 of the nativity,
when there was a new D on the 26th of May, in
II 5°, in A of it’s radical place and ſecondary
direction; the on the 5th of June, was above 2
in the A of 11, of the nativity, &c.
U MARGOTIUS
154. R E M A R K A B L E N AT I W IT E I S.
M A R G O T I US
CARDINAL LANFRANCHE.
E died the 30th of November 1611, aged 52
years, 2 months, Io days. He was ſent for
in 1606 from Naples by Paul the Vth, to be ſecre
tary to his grandſon, Cardinal Burgheſus. He
was elečted Cardinal in November 24, 1608.
Argol, in this nativity, as uſual, directs the
horoſcope, for the native's death, but the O is un
doubtedly hyleg, who falls on a parallel of the
declination of the D; 2 and h following imme
diately after ; and what is very remarkable, the
O with that declination; 16° 35', found the decli
nation of Syrus, Aldebaram, Cauda, and very near
it Cor Leonis, four fixed ſtars of the firſt magni
tude, of a hot and deſtructive nature. I have
found, by obſervation, that that declination is poſ
ſeſſed of a great force and virtue; ſo that if any
ſignificator poſſeſs that point, the ſignification is
there greatly increaſed, good with the benign, and
evil with the malignant. I have obſerved that 3
with that declination gives acuteneſs to the mind,
& a deſire for luxury and pleaſure, 3 anger, mad
neſs, boldneſs, temerity, &c. -
- The
*
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v IT I E s. 135
* Theo with this declination cauſes:a warm peſti
lential air; he brings the heat of ſummer about the
... beginning of November, and configurated with the
enemies, raiſes ſtorms at ſea; ſpoils' the fruits,
wines, produces on the earth vermin to deſtroy the
feed, increaſes the buds, &c. ſo that there ſeems
to be great power in the declination of thoſe ſtars.
But it is very evident that this dire&tion of the
O was alone ſufficient; for in the nativity the O is
hyleg; was ſurrendered by the enemies by the two
motions in the zodiac, and applied very near the D
: of 3 in mundo, by a true converſe motion,to the D of
#, 2 only, of the friends, gave any affiſtance to
: the mundanek, whereby ſhe conferred great digni
ties; nevertheleſs, ſhe being unhappily ſituated in
'm, her detriment, and under a parallel of h’s de
clination in the weſtern cardinal ſign, whence he
is generally the cauſe of diſeaſes: what 2 denoted
ſhewed it only to be corrupt, fickly, and of a ſhort
duration. Theo directed to the A of n! and 3 of 2,
conferred very great honours: on the native and un
expected he did not ſeek for honours, but was ſought
for to be promoted. AftertheQhad paſſed through
the rays of the favourable planets, and declined to
the parallel of the enemies, the native died.
- But I am of opinion that the ſecondary direc
tions, with the other motions, contributed greatly
to his death, as we ſhall obſerve. -
The following is a calculation of the o’s direc
tlOn :
U 2. - The
156 R E M A R K A B L E N AT Ivi T 1 Es.
The o’s pole is 16°, his oblique aſcenſion there
179° 18', the oblique aſcenſion of m 15° 40', in
which the D's declenſion is 16°35, falls in 228°4',
from which ſubtrading that of the O’s, there re
mains the direction's arc 48° 46, which equated de
: notes 52 years nearly.
The ſecondary directions are made on the 4th
of November 1559, three hours P.M. . .
---
*
o | }. | 1 || 3 * | 9 |
Deg. in ºf II || 3 || 3: m - || 36
| of |- - --
Long- 21.44|***] 4:45. 8.55 |io.54|4. 14' 5-55 27.40
S. S. S. “S. “S. N. f
‘l Lat. 4.33. 2. 17 | 1.34 1.20 (3.5ol 1.48 -
2 -
Vºf
—
You ſee that the e was exaëly in a parallel
of the declination of 3, the in ſeſqui quadrat of
72 , theolikewiſe remaining in a parallel of h, the
progreſſion falls on December the 2d, 1563.
-
O | . )
Deg. ºf gº
of
- Lon. Izo. 1 22.o
7| || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2 |
& "b | f | f | \ºf .
:i3|6.59 o.7 | 16.18 25.27 8.49
- N. N. N. N.
Lat. 1.8 |0.18|o.30 o-48 || o.37 | 1.30
S
T.
R E M A R K.A. B.L. E N AT I W I T.I.E.S. 157"
November 30, 1611, the ſtars were poſited in
the manner following:
Deg.
of
Lon.
Lat.
O || | | H | 1 || 3 || 2 || 8 || 2
£ | = | : & in 3 ml || II
7.28 21.55| 29.38 || 25.33 |zo. 354.36|| 18.56 |10.45
N. S | N. N. N. N.
3.46 | 1.6 o.32 o. 5 |o.26 o.18
The O on the day he died was poſited in 8 of h’s
radical place, and in 8 of h’s ſecondary direction
of the D above 3, and in D of his ſecondary direc
tions and progreſſion; H on the ſame day above the
O’s ſecondary direction, and 8 in 6 with him near
the place of the primary directions, and in D of the
D’s radical place on the 3oth of November; the
o's place of the D’s primary direétions in the El
of 3 's progreſſion.
Thus you ſee a mutual permutation of the in
greſſions. .
CAR
153 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I w I TI E S.
. . . . . . .
* . . . º
CARDINAL-PANEIROLE.
----- - - -
-
-
E died the 3d of September 1651, aged 64
| years, 7 months, and 20 days. .
He was created a Cardinal on July 17, 1634, at
the age of 47 years and 6 months.
Argol takes the cauſe of his death from the horo
ſcope's direétion to be the E of H , omitting the O,
who is undoubtedly hyleg, and in the 64 years and
half comes by a right direétion to the parallel of
7, in mundo, and in the zodiac to the declination
of 3, having by a converſe direétion ſome years
before ſet near the 7th houſe.
The direétion to the mundane parallel of H is
thus calculated.
Theo's horary times are 11°29'; diſtant from
the medium cali I 19 20'; the right aſcenſion of
H is 24°54', from which his primary diſtance;
horary times 16° 10'; from which ſubtracting, &c.
ariſes, in the fourth place, his ſecondary diſtance of
the medium caeli 15°57', which ſubtracted from the
primary, leaves the direétions arc 63°56', being
equated,
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV IT I E S.: 159.
equated, denotes 65 years; the 9th houſe is elevated
17°.(x). • * * - ºf tº
- . . . . . . . . D. M.
As theo's duplex horary times 22 58
is to the elevation - - - 11 o
ſo is theodiſtant from medium x
cali - - - - - - 17 20
to the G)'s pole. - - - - 8 o
The oblique aſcenſion of his 8 under that pole is
110° 29; to which I add the directions arc 63° 56',
the ſum is 174° 25', anſwering to 24° 15', in the
ſame tables of oblique aſcenſion; ſo that the O had
arrived at x 24° 15', whoſe declination is 2° 18', and
that of 3 1? 21. If his place is true by longitude
and latitude, and the Q then being within 1°, ap
plied to his declination, and the luminaries in the
direétions to the parallel, always anticipates their
effects, as is ſeen in all theſe examples. The G)
by a converſe motion had departed from the weſt,
and 3 at the ſame time was found at the center of
the imum caeli (i. e.) in a mundane D ray to the
e); with this ſame ray of 3 , the G) moved ſuc
ceſſively, and continued ſo; and this is worth ob
ſerving, that the ſignification of what ſtar ſoever,
together with the ſtars whilſt they are moved by
a converſe univerſal motion, change the aſpect
alternately, and conſequently the mundane rays,
as it likewiſe happens that they acquire parallels
which we have already calculated.
(x) Sun to the mundame parallel of Saturn.
- But
* *
sto R E M A R K a B L E N AT Iv It res.
But becauſe this happens inſenſibly, and ſuch
rays ſo acquired are generally laſting, we have not
for a long time laid down a method to calculate
them in the Cannons, but any one may, from the
table of the houſes, the time of acquiſition, and
duration of theſe rays. As in the example, the
Ó poſited in the weſt, with ºf 22° in the imum
cali, are found in a 2°; and as the rays thus ac
quired are of a long continuance, they denote a
certain univerſal diſpoſition of the things ſignified,
either good or bad, according to the nature of the
aſpecting ſtars, as it happened to this Cardinal,
who ſome years before his death was always ſickly;
and obſervation is wonderful in the changes of the
times and weathers; for this principal Ptolemy ad
hered to in the Almajeſi, Lib. viii. Chap. 4. This
doćtrine he mentions in the Second Book of Judge
ments in the Chapter on the Nature of Events.
But to our buſineſs; the ſecondary direétions
fall, or are made, on the 17th of March, with
16 h 5 m. P. M.
Deg. 36 ga 8 º mg 3{ >{ =º-
Long- || 26.30|o. 4|o.45| 5.30 |27. 11R11.33R 6.38 || 8.42
5.30
Lat. I 5. Oz. Iol o. 18 3% 13s
*
R E M A R KABLE NAT IVIT IF s. 64.
The o was found in 8 of3 near his primary diſ.
tance, under the declination off ofthe nativity, the
> in D of 3 of the nativity, and therefore the 6
with him of nſ availed nothing, nor the A of 2 and
#, becauſe tº had the declination of h, and being
above the B of the nativity, was rather prejudicial;
and as the was in the 5° South latitude, ſhe was
at a great diſtance from?!. .
The progreſſion for full 64 years are finiſhed on
the 16th of March, 1592, whilſt the went over
88°, where her veſpertine diſtancefrom theois 425
nearly, as in the nativity; for the other 7 months
I add 7 ſigns, and 17° 30', and come to £ 25°.
Laſtly, for the 19 days, till the day of his death,
iſ add 21°, and the D is poſited in ºf 16°; the reſt
as follows: -
g
Deg, ºr ºf gº || 8 | f | x ×
Lon. 15. o | 16. o 6. 14 |24.o | 19.22 | 1.40| 19.o | 1. 1
2. o
Lat. 1. 18| 1. 4 o. 11 | 1.18 o.3ol. 2.
September the 3d, 1651, the ſtars were in the
following order:
182 R E M A R K a B L E N AT Ivi t . Es.
G) || Y | P. 71 || 3 || ? | 8 || 8
peg. my | 8 | g | f | m | Su "g ºr
of . - - -- - - — * , IIT
ong- 10.36.16.13 24.41 13. 1. 21.37 | 18.45 || 14.43 22.3
- - N. I. S., | N. S. N. N.
Lat. o. 42 o' i4"|o.29 1. 14 || 'o. 56 || 1 .15
... } . . . . . . . , * *
On the day he died the O was found, with the
declination of Ł of the nativity, and almoſt of the
ſecondary direétions, and alſo above h in the ſecon
dary directions; h in 8, and the D in a oftheo's
progreſſion. Preceding the death, there was a full
D, the Ø remaining in an exact parallel of decli
nation of.h's radical places, and ſecondary direc
tions; 3 on the ſame day obtained the declinations
of the D's ſecondary direétions; H was poſited in
#8 oftheoofthe nativity. You ſeeanaturaltranſit,
aćtive and paſſive, of h to the O.
| i * -
#
*
*
-
- DOMI
R E M A R K AB L E N AT I v 1 T 1 Es. 163
Do M I N I C K Mo LIN Us,
S E N A to R of V B N 1 c E.
ITE died November the 16th, 1635, 14 hours,
Y P. M. aged 63 years, all but 14 days.
For this effect, Argol direéts theoto the antiſ.
cions of h and 8; but as theſe planets are 2° North
latitude, their declination becomes 16°, whereby
they cut the ecliptic in 16°of:, and Argol takesthe
antiſcions of 8 in 2, 9° 10'. But we direét theoto
2, 16°10, andthenwe ſhall ſee whether ourmethod
correſponds; otherwiſe, for the example, we muſt
comply with the opinion of others; viz. that the
antiſcions is not to be taken by preſerving the lati
tude as we do. -
The o direéted to tº 16° is thus calculated:
The o’s horary times are 11°6', which doubled
makes 22°12'; the ſpace ofthe 11th houſe, luſtrated
by the o’s motion, the pole ofthe 11th houſe 19°,
and of the 12th houſe 34°, the difference between
them is 15°; the oblique aſcenſion of the 11th
houſe is 247° 15'; the O's oblique aſcenſion is
254° 22', therefore his diſtance from the 11th houſe
is 7° 7'
X 2 As
184 Rem ARKABLE N AT 1 v i t . Es.
As to the diurnal horary times - 22° 12'
is to the difference of the poles - 15 o
ſo is theo's diſtance from the 11th
houſe - - - - - 7 7
to the O's polar diſtance - - - 5 o
which added to the pole of 11°, makes theo's pole
24°, under which his oblique aſcenſion is 256°44';
the oblique aſcenſion thereof is : 325° 5'1', from
which ſubſtraćting that of the o, leaves the direc
tion's arc 69°7',which equated gives 63 years. You
fee therefore, gentle reader, that our method, as in
all other examples, agree perfeótly well.
The o likewiſe had arrived at the proper p in
mundo two years before, for the o’s ſemi-diurnal
arc is 66° 36'; but when the ſignificator does not
change the hemiſphere, the ſemi-diurnal or ſemi
noćturnal arc is the direction of the proper D in
mundo, and by his ray the two prorogatory virtues
are injured; viz. that in the primum mobile.
Laſtly, the o arrived to the D's mundane parallel,
which is calculated thus: Theo’s ſemi-diurnal arc
is 4h 26, diſtant from medium caeli 29° 15'; the
o's ſemi-noëturnal arc is 4h 53, from which ariſes
her ſecondary diſtance imum deli 30° 1': this added
'to the primary is 38° 31', which makes the direc
'tion's arc 68° 32'.
But becauſe the declination of the G) and D is
nearly the ſame, and the ſemi-diurnal arc of theo
and ſemi-noëturnal arc of the D the ſame, the o a
- little
R E M A R R A B L E N AT IV IT I E.S. rö;
little before was, by a convex motion, poſited in
the D’s mundane parallel: for "
As her ſemi-noćturnal arc - - 4° 33' "
is to her diſtance imum caeli - 38 31
{e-is-the O’s ſemi-diurnal arc - 4 26
to his ſecondary diſtance - - - 37 22
which added to the primary 29° 15', makes the di
rećtion's arc 66° 47. You will ſay that the parallel
of 9 and g are ſucceeded next by the + 's ray of aſ
and A of 2. I anſwer, that they are firſt followed
by the D's ray of Ł and ; ; when therefore more
teſtimonies of the enemies than of the friends pre
ſented themſelves, the enemies prevailed.
Hence we are taught that the teſtimonies of the
aſpects may be multiplied by one and the ſaune
planets though the planet only is the cauſe of
them.
The ſecondary direétion happens on January
'the 21ſt, 1557, with 21h P. M.
~
O * | 1 || 3 || 2 | | | g
Deg.-H -: , ſig hl QY" . . .2% * . . .2% QºS
Long- || 12.48 |28.c. 26.14 24.38 14.2c 29:45 2.3d 12.3
Lat. |4.5: 2. 9 || 1.22 o.12 2.23 |1.2c
The
266 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v i T 1 Es.
The G) remains in an exact parallel of H. 's decli
nation, without any aſfiſtance from the friends.
The progreſſions are made on the 24th of De
cember, 1577. \
O ) b 7ſ. & 2 83
Deg | Vºf grº, Vºf tº: m f f cy,
of
Lon. 13.20 | 8.o 14.20 Io. 56 |26.559.4o 22.o 6.5o
Lat. 5.o o. 20 1.31 o. 1 r. 12. 9 o. o
*
The O was 6 there with h; the D in their 8.
November the 16th, 1635, the ſtars were poſited
thus, as follows:
i
O D | H n| || 3 || 2 || 3 | Q
º in : ºf mg | 11p. m. f ...:
O ----- -
Lon. 24.o. 1 3.0 |o. 403. 28, 21.12 |zo. o. 14.40 |26. 37
Lat. 1.1o |0.4ojo.57| 1.37 o.45 | 1.36
He fell ſick when the new ) was above H and
§ of the nativity, and died when ſhe came to the
place of theo’s direction, who, on the day he died,
was found above H of the ſecondary direétion, and
- above
R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 E. s. 167.
above 3 of the progreſſion, and the D was poſited
in their ra.
Theſe agreements are wonderful. The year
was alſo climaétric, becauſe the D in the ſecondary
direétion had ſtopped at the propera ofher place of
the nativity.
OCTAVIAN
$68, R.E.M. A. R. K.A. B. L. E N AT I W IT I E S.
t
-
*
N E.
* ~ * * *
octavi AN ALBRAND1
E died the 12th of Auguſt, 1632, aged 44
years and 11 months.
Argol dire&ts the horoſcope to the G of a ;
whereas the D is hyleg, who, according to our
calculation, comes exactly to an 8 of 3. The
P’s declination is 2° 3', anſwers to ºr 5° in the
ecliptic, whoſe horary times are 15° 18', and
doubled 30°36'; the D's right aſcenſion is 6° 32',
from which her diſtance in the wiedium caeli becomes
9° 19'; the pole of the 11th houſe is 17°, whence,
by the golden rule, is had the D's pole 5°, under
which her oblique aſcenſion is 6°21'. The oblique
aſcenfion of 3's 8 is 48°11', from which ſubtract
ing that of the D , leaves the diurnal arc 41° 50',
and being equated gives 45 years. The D like
wiſe near 21° 15' of 8, found the parallel declina
tion of h, where being in 4° South latitude, ſhe
gains the declination of H 14° 16', the oblique
aſcenſion of whoſe place, taken as to latitude and
longitude under the D's pole, viz. 48° 38', from
which ſubtrading the p’s oblique aſcenſion, there
remains thedireétion's arc 42° 17'. But by a con
verſe
R E M A R K AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es: 169
verſe motion, the applied to the mundane pa
rallel of Hº ; and if there was pla d on the mid
haven 2° 16 of ºr, it anſwers exactly for the right
aſcenſion of the midhaven, and would be 2° 5'; the
declination of H 14° 16', anſwers to 8° of 8 in the
ecliptic, whoſe noćturnal horary times are 17°12',
the right aſcenſion of H is 44° 13', from which his
diſtance from the midhaven becomes 42° 8.
à in 8 is 22° 39' of 8; with latitude 1° North,
being the contrary latitude to his body, and its
oblique aſcenſion under the D’s pole, is 48° 11'.
As the horary times of h - -
is to his diſtance, medium caeli
ſo is the D's horary times
to her ſecondary diſtance
which added to the primary
, makes the arc of directions
**
17°
42
IS
37
4.
4I
12'
8
18
47
27
34
The ſecondary directions remained thus Novem
ber the 1ſt, 1587, at Iom. P. M.
6 | p ºl ? || 3 || 8
º m || m Sl * , | * m),
of I
Long. |8.35| 26.0 || 3.g. 15.22 25.2c 26.30 25. o 26.37
- N. N. S. N. N.
Lat. 4° 20 o. 13 o.28 || 1 11 | 1.7
+––. -
y Thus
370 K E M A R K A B L E N AT I v IT i E S.
)
Thus the O is between a parallel declenſion, and
in 8 to h; the D nearly alſo with the declaration
of h to the day of his death, the progreſſions arc
made on May 10, the ſtars being as under : -
o || > | H | 1 || 3 || 3 || 8 || 2
gro
* | * | * | * | * | *... " | *
lon.] is. o 28. of 26. of 13.13 |1.43 |o. 12. 29.20 ||8.45
Lat. 5. O-I - i. y | . . .
Auguſt 12, 1632, the ſtars werethus poſited;
viz, - - -
Fº-Tº- 1 - - - * . . . .
G) D | | | || 1 , || 3 |- ? || 3.
º 83 gº; m. 8 = | Sl &
|- O - --
Lon. 19.53 |ro.32 22:38 24:19, 11.43 9.4|9.2 2.17
-
1 &
8
- - | N. : I* S. i N. -|-N: T N.
Lat. - |4. 37| 2. o 1, 4 || d. 9 ||1.o. 1.22 |
- - . . . . . . - - - -----
-
- ------ -
l
− — --- - * -T-F--------- s
* ---
The e on the day he died was ſeparated from ht
of the ſecondary-directions, and was poſted in a
parallel of the declination of h’s ſecondary direc
* - - - - tions,
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IVIT I E.S. 17t
tions, and alſo to the O’s progreſſion; and H was
above the D of the ſecondary direction. In his
ſickneſs the o was found in the exačt n of h’s
ſecondary directions, 6 in 8 of the D of the
nativity,
Y 2 OCTA
172 R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV IT I Es.
OCTAVIAN WESTRIUS of ROME.
E died May the 1ſt, 1626, aged 49 years and
8 months. -
This nativity explained by Argol contains many
errors, for nº ſhould be poſited in 27° (not 22°) of
h in 24° not 19°; 3 in ºf not a ; the places like
wiſe of , and 8 do not agree, but theſe things we
have not attended to. Argol thinks, and very
juſtly, that the o is to be direéted for life, for he
is hyleg; but he wiſhes he had exceeded the 6 of3 s
then he would have been injured by the 6 of the D,
which ſeems agreeable to reaſon.
By our calculation the o comes to the D of 3
in the zodiac, with the teſtimony of a k of h; but
as the # of nº ſucceeds, it doubtleſs would not have
been fatal, unleſs, by a converſe motion, it had
come to the 8 of 3, and direétly to the mun
dane parallel of 3. - -
The calculation to the D of 3 is thus: The O’s
horary times arc 15° 59', doubled 31° 58', then add
ed to the right aſcenſion of medium caeli, it makes
154° 58', which ſubſtraćted from the O's right
aſcenſion, 264° 48', leaves theo’s diſtance from the
cuſp of the I Ith ho iſ 9°50'; or if we ſubſtraćt
the oblique aſcenſion of the 11th houſe, 153'o",
- - - - from
R E M A R K A B L E N A T L V IT I E S, 173
from theo's oblique aſcenſion there taken, 162°50',
there remains the O’s ſame diſtance, 9°50', the pole
of the 11th houſe is 17°, of the 12th houſe 31°. (a)
As the o’s duplicate horary hours 31° 58'
is to the polar difference - - - 14 Q
ſo is his diſtance from the 11th houſe 9 5o
to his pole's diſtance - - - - - 4 o
which added to the pole of the 11th houſe 17°, the
O's pole becomes 21°, under which his oblique
aſcenſion is 162° 18'. The oblique aſcenfion of the
D of 3 in the ecliptic, (above which the o is in
perpetual motion,) is 207° 36'; from which, ſub
ſtraćting that of the O, leaves the direction's arc
45° 18', which equated denotes 49 years.
To the 8 of 3, by a converſe motion, the calcu
lation is eaſy.
The polar altitude of 3 is 2°, under which his
oblique aſcenſion is 229° 26', and that of theo’s 3,
there is 345°3', from which ſubſtraćting the former,
there remains the direétion's arc 45° 37'.
To the mundane parallel of 3 the calculation is
thus:
The O's horary times arc 15° 59', diſtant from
the medium caeli 41°48', the declaration of 3 is
25° 18', aſcenſional difference is 25° 12, and divided
by 6, quotes 4°12', to be added to the equator's
horary times, and the horary times of 3 's arc
19°12', from which are produced 50° 13', which
(a) The Sun to the Quartile of Mars in Zodiac.
t is
174: R E M A R K A B L E N AT I V IT I E S.
is the ſecondary diſtance of 3 from the imum caeli,
his primary diſtance therefrom is in 4° 30', for his
right aſcenſion is 298° 30'; ſubſtraćting there
fore 4° 30' from 50° 13, leaves the direétion's arc
45°43. -
You ſee therefore now how well all the direc
tions agree; at the ſame time that it is no wonder
the native was deprived of life. For the ſingle
direction to the D of 3 , as has been ſaid, does
not ſeem ſufficient. The ſecondary directions for
49 years and 8 months are made Oétober 15, 1576,
with 13h, P. M. the ſtars nearly in this order:
eg. fl Sl f my.
of
Long. 3. of 13.5 26.40 |6.47| 16. o 8.4 || 8.o |29. 49
4. m m cy,
N. N. N. S. N. S.
Lat. 4. 52 o. 51 |o. 53| 3: o c. 50 || 1 , o
The D is found in a parallel declaration of 3 and H.
with the 3 of 3 ; the sk of n! to the Q could make no
reſiſtance, becauſe iſ is cadent, and the ray k is very
weak, eſpecially when it is in the principal ray,
and as it is ſo, Ptolemy, when he mentions the
planets that are able to ſave in the 3 of the infor
tunes, does not name the k, but the D, A, and 8 ;
and I think for this reaſon, becauſe the k ray is
feeble
R E M A R K A B L E N AT i v i T 1 E.S. 173
feeble, particularly when it is leſs than 60°; but
neither could 2 aſſiſt, as ſhe was cadent from the
houſe, and an enemy to the o’s fign. Laſtly,
when the primary direétions are ſtrong for miſ
chief, the ſecondary rather co-operate for miſchief,
for the teſtimony ofthe unfavourable, and of thoſe
which are not ſo; on the contrary, they co-ope
rate for good, if the primary are fortunate. The
O was likewiſe with the Q. -
The progreſſions were made Sept. 2, 1580.
O D B | 1 || 3 || 2 || 3 || 3
Deg. mg Ca' | 2: £ II tº- -- 2:
of
Long. | 19.25 |z. oli 1.3|6. 17 | 7. 20 | 19.38 || 12.43 14.46
N. : S. N. S. S. S.
Lat. 3.25] 1 - 21 or 41 || 1 - I 4. J 1 || 2. 13
May 1, 1626, the ſtare were thus ſituated:
O | } | }. 7| || 3 º § 83
Deg. 8 gö mg == II 8 8 my,
Lon.| 10.58|o. 8|9. 5 || 24-2 || 29.1 |9. 43 22.44| c.51
On the day he died the o was found in B of3 of
the ſecondary directions, and D of h of the progreſ
fion; 6 above the ofthe progreſſion. And it is to
º
- - be
*76 R E M A R K A B L E N AT I v i Ti Es.
be obſerved, that for ſeveral months before, h re
mained above the O of the nativity, without doing
any miſchief, becauſe it was above the o’s primary
direétions: but when he was ſeparated by retrogra
dation, he left the O in power of an infortune,
and there was a new before his death, in 8 6°,
in the place of the 8 to the o’s ſecondary direc
tion, and in a of the b there, and in a of h’s pro
greſſion. -
* - B. A. R
R E M A R K AB L E N AT IVITIES, 177
BARTHOLOMEW MASSARI,
An Eminent Phyſicianof Bonon IA.
X7 ITH the D, Pleades, Hyades, Orions,
- Belt, and the great Dog Star, Sirius,
with the O in Fomahaut in 26.
He died February 18, 1655. This man was a
profeſſor of phyſic, and philoſophy in the college
at Bononia. He argued very ſubtlely, and ſup
ported his arguments with the ſtrongeſt reaſon.
Being ſent for by the great men of Italy for his
advice, when they were fick, he always returned
loaded with honours and rich preſents. He had a
great knowledge of the mathematics. The libe
rality particularly towards his friends extended to
profuſion; in other things extremely prudent and
ſagacious. His houſe wasornamented with the moſt
beautiful and valuable pićtures, precious ſtones,
gems, &c. He had filled his library with volumes
of the beſt authors in philoſophy, phyſic, mathe
matics, and aſtronomy.
To buſineſs his application was unremitting;
of his promiſes he was a careful obſerver. In ſhort
the man was rich in every kind of virtue. He was
born with his feet inverted, owing to the conſti
- tution
* R E M A R K A B L E N At Ivi T 1 Es.
tution of the D in the Weſtern horizon with 8 in
a mundane arc of D in 3 , who paſſed through x,
the ſign of the feet, and in 3 of H in t , the ſign
of the thighs. ‘ On account of the friendſhip that
ſubſiſted between us, he deſired me (for he was .
well acquainted with the common way) to calcu
late the direétions of his nativity, which I very
gladly performed, and the calculation of paſt acci
dents appeared to a minute; but I afterwards ob
ſerved a direction of the D, who is hyleg to a
parallel of h in the zodiac, near ga 14° 15', in ſouth
latitude 3° 28, though indeed the declination of
this is 19° 40'; but I know at that time the lumi
naries in theſe parallels preceded by their effects
the intimate application, and the D by a converſe
motion applied to the mundane parallel of 3 , whilſt
both were carried away by the motion of the pri
mum mobile round the world. Laſtly, the D by
a right direétion found the ſeſqui-quadrat of 3 in
inundane, and, indeed, as in every direétion, the
rays of the friends are ſubſequent. It might be
thought theſe aſpects would not prove fatal, yet
he died on February 18, 1655, almoſt ſuddenly,
having ſome days before received the holy ſacra
ment, conſcious ofhis impending unfortunate direc
tion, and the unhappy revolution which happened
the day he died; and I think of ſome inward acci
dent which warned him of his death, whence he
is ſaid to have feared the 18th, becauſe, perhaps,
on that day, by a calculation and judgment of ſome
- COil
R E M A R K AB L E N AT 1 v It i Es. 17,
conſequence, would fall, for they ſay he was
fick the night before ; however it be, he died the
day he predićted, to the grief of the whole city
of Felſina. His heirs, for the love they bore their
very learned preceptor, celebrated his funeral with
great pomp and ſolemnity. - - -
The direétions arc for 52 years is 47° 50'; for
the O after the nativity arrives in 52 days of Y is
21° 40', whoſe right aſcenſion is 20° 1', from which
ſubſtradingthe o’s right aſcenſion 332°11', leaves
the direétions arc 47° 50'. The 5's direáion to a
parallel of h’s declination is thus calculated:
The oblique aſcenſion of the 5's 8 in the horoſ
cope is 257° 10', from which ſubſtraćting the horoſ
cope's oblique aſcenſion, leaves the 5's diſtance
from the weſt 8° 33', the pole of the ſecond
houſe is 38°; therefore the difference of the pole
of the 7th and 8th houſes is 11°. The 's diurnal
horary times are 18° 27'; theſe doubled produce
36°54'; for the Y's declination is equal to 8 29° 3O'
in the ecliptic : Now then, -
As the 5's diurnal horary times - 36° 34'
is to the proper difference of the 7th -
and 8th houſes - - - - - 11 o
ſo is the D's diſtance weſt - - 8 33 -
to her pole's elevation - - - - 3 o
her pole then becomes 41°, under which the oblique
aſcenſion of her 8 is 255°o, to which I add the
direétions arc 47° 50', and the ſum is 302° 50',
Z 2 anſwering
is, R E M A R K AB L E N AT ivities,
anſwering in the ſame table to ºf 14° 15. north
latitude, which the D gains in the place of the8 .
to him 3° 28; therefore the D cameto as 14° 15'
in 3° 28 ſouth latitude, where ſhe gains a declina
tion of 19° 13, that is 33 greater than that ofh:
and as the D leſſened her declaration, ſhe therefore
applied. *
The calculation of the p’s converſe direétion
to the mundane parallel of 3 , whilſt both were
carried away by the motion of the primum mobile,
the calculation is thus: -
The D's ſemi-noëturnal arc is 69° 17', that of
3 96° 33, which addedtogether are 165°50'. The
12"s right aſcenſion is 56° 28, of 6 344° 28,
which ſubſtraćted from the former, leaves the D's
right diſtance from 3 71°50': her primary diſtance
from the imum celi is 77°51'; therefore (b)
As the ſum of the arc's - - 165° 50'
is to the D's ſemi-noëturnal arc 69 17
ſo is her diſtance from 3 - - - 71 50
to her ſecondary diſtance - - - 30 I
which ſubſtraćted from the primary, leaves the di
reaionsare 47° 5o; and if you have a mind to cal
culate by logarithms, the minutes of the firſt num
bers are 99.50, where the logarithms is 399,782;
minutes oftheſecondary 4157,logarithms 361,878;
minutes ofthe 3d houſe 4310, logarithms 363,447.
(b) Rated converſe parallel.
I add
RE MARKA E L E N AT Ivi Ties, is,
I add theſe two former together, and the ſum is
725,326,from which I ſubſtraćt thefirſt, and the re
maining logarithm is 325,544, which gives 1800° 1',
or 30° 1'.
The 9 direéted to the ſeſqui-quadrate of 3 in
mundo, by a right motion, is thus calculated:
I firſt direct to his a in mundo ().
As the 5’s diurnal horary times - 18° 27'
is to her diſtance from the weſt - 8 33 .
ſo is 3's noćturnal horary times - 16 5
to his diſtance imum cali - - - 7 27
which is to be ſubſtraćted from the primary. But
the primary diſtance of 3 is leſs by 5° 41'; there
fore 3 preceds this a 1° 46'. In this caſe I firſt
triplicate 3 's horary times, which muſt be added
to the ray's D, that we may form the ſeſqui-qua
drate, and l have 48° 15', from which I ſubſtraćt
1° 46'; 3, by his D, preceds the D, there re
mains the D's arc of diſtance to the ſeſqui-quadrate
of 3 46°29'; therefore this ray of 3 had pre
ceded a year, or more, at which time, as he told
me, he ſuffered very great troubles of mind.
(c) The Moon to the ſeſqui-quadrate of Mars in munds.
The
13, R E M A R K A āi E N AT Ivi Ti Es.
The ſecondary direétions are made on April 11,
1603, 12h. 26m. P. M.
Deg. ºr Y. m | y, >{ | "Y" | 1m.
of — - —
Lon. 21.37 |26. o';.45. 20.57 22.47 || 10.22 |21R44|27.53
-j-- I - I -
N. N. N. S. N. N.
Lat. z. 392.42 1.53 o. 3 | 1.56 || 2: 37
O ) || || || || & 2 § 83
f
The progreſſion happens on May 3, 1607.
The planets as under :
o h ºf & | 2 || 8 | 92
Dr. 8 a ºf × || || 8 || H m.
of - - -
Long. I 3. c. 11.40 |19 R34 28.37 (8. Cl 29. O || 3. •9. 17
S. N. S. N. A. N. . N.
Lat. 2. 12 | 1. Io o.56 lo. 8 o 16 || 2. 4
February 18, 1655, the planets as under:
O ) P 1. & 2 | f | 83
Deg. : Sl my, }{ 1 | }{ | : || 2:
of -- →
Lon. 29.48 | 1. 14 6. 55 27.53 |10.48] 1. 5|17.7 || 5.6
| N. | N. . s. | N. . s. s.
Lat. 1. 13| 1. 48 || I. 9 o. 30 | 1. 27| 1.30
* It
|
\
R E M A R K A B L E N AT I y IT I E S. 133
It is worth obſerving, that the native died nearly
at the hour of the o’s revolution, in which he had
the declination of H and the D ; that of 3 and 2
was ſeparated from the G and the D, came in a
parallel declination of 3 's progreſſion, and alſo of
h's progreſſion; & in 8 ofthe D., D and parallel of
the o’s progreſſion, 3 with the D's anaretic decli
nation.
The magiſtracy in this nativity is denoted by
2 in 6 with 3 in the ſouthern circle. In their dig
nities confiliated to the D by the ray quintile. This
one nativity, in preference to numberleſs others
which I have calculated, I thought proper to inſert
here, that the memory of a man ſo famed for virtue
and erudition might ſurvive among the living, who
in his lifetime, by his profeſſion andfriendly offices,
itudied only the good of his fellow creatures.
LEONORA,
184 R.E.M.A. R.K.A.B L E N AT I V IT I E.S.
L E O N O R. A.,
DucHEss of sforTIA.
- HE died December 17, 1634, aged near 64
| years and 9 months. , - -
Argol in this nativity places 2 in z and g in
×, but ſhe ought to be in ºr, and he in x., He
dire&s the horoſcope to the D’s 8 as anaretic,
though ſhe rather appears to be ſignificatorof life,
and her direction agree very well; the by a right
direétion in the 64th year and 9 months, comes to
a parallel declination of 3 , near 5° 39' of Sl, where
the D is 2° 4o douth latitude, and gains a declina
tion 16° 22'; that of 3 16° 25.
The calculation is this: the 5's declination is
16°38', anſwers to 8 16° in the ecliptic, whoſehorary
times are 17°42', which doubled, make 35°24',
the ſpace of the y's houſe; the oblique aſcenſion
of the third houſe is 256°. The oblique aſcenſion
of the D’s 8 to the pole of the third houſe, which
is 18°, is 251° 44'; therefore the D's diſtance from
the center of the 9th houſe is 4° 16', and her polar
elevation 20°, under which the oblique aſcenſion
of her 8 is 252°24'; the oblique aſcenſion of :
5° 30',
R E M A R K A B L E N AT IV IT I E S 177
3° 30', is 2°40' North latitude under the ſame pole
313° 22'; from which, ſubſtraćting the former,
leaves the direétion's arc 60°58', which equated,
denotes 64 years 9 months.
And becauſe the D's declination in the nativity
is 16° 38', that is, nearly the ſame that ſhe has in
the direction's place; the direction's arc may be
likewiſe had by the right aſcenſion. The right
aſcenſion of the D is 66° 10'; the right aſcenſion
of Su is 5° 30', with latitude 2°40' South, is 127°
12; from which, ſubſtraćting that of the D, there
remains the direétion's arc 61° 2', greater by 4than
the other, by means of ſome difference of the D's
declination and place of 8.
At the ſame time the D, by a dire&t direction,
came to the mundane parallel of H. , for the D's
declination in the ecliptic, anſwers to 8 16°; whoſe
horary times are 17°42'; her diſtance from the
medium call 39° 50'; h’s declination 5° 5', anſwers
to a 13° in the ecliptic, whoſe diurnalhorary times
are 14° 12'. From thaſe are produced h’s ſecond
ary diſtance from the medium caeli 31°57'; which
being ſubſtraćted from the primary 93°4', (for 5's
right aſcenſion is 199°4), leaves the direétion's
are 61°7's to this ſucceeded the to the mun
dane parallel of ; , who had aſſumed the nature
of h .
By a converſe direétion the y had arrived at the
8 of h 4 years before: h’s pole is 39°; his ob
lique aſcenſion is 203° 13'; the oblique aſcenſion
A a of
173 R. E. M.A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I T 1 E. S.
of the D’s 3 under H. 's pole, is 260° 10'; there
fore being ſubſtraćted, leaves the direction's arc
56°57'. . . . -
Retention of urine is denoted by 2, lady of the
aſcendant in the 6th houſe, and parallel of h’s de
clination in the horoſcope, poſited in the ſigns of
the kidnies; the D alſo in a mundane parallel;
3 had the D with 2 in the 6th houſe.
The ſecondary directions happen May 16, 1570,
near 1 hour P. M.
Q h h! || 6 § 82
-
Deg. II -- --- 2: ng I II 8 || 11p.
of - - -
- Long. |4.4o 18.30 | 15.54 || 16.45 |5. o 6.0 | 16 29 4 - O
* N. || N. . . S." | N. S. S.
: l Lat. 3.36 2.5o o.37 || 1 , o, o. 2 || 2.20
Obſerve, the O and 2 are combuſt in the D of
*- 3 , and with the hyades; the D in the ſeſqui-qua
drate of the Q and Q , and parallel declination of
h. In the preceding 3, aſ aſſiſted with his A
ray. -
The progreſſion for full 65 years, fall on June
13, 1575, the D remaining in 7° of m, and the Q
1° of ga. But there is a deficiency of 3 months and
6 days; for the three months I ſubſtraćt 3 ſigns 7°
and go back with the ; ſo that ſhe is poſited in
II o'. Laſtly, I ſubſtraćt 6° for the ſame num
* ber
º
| R E M A R K AB L E N AT I W IT I E S. 179
ber of days, and the D is in 8 24°; the reſt as
under : -
o h || || || 3 || ? .
gz gº II
Deg LI 8 f gº;
of
Lon. 24.1o 24.o 15-40 || 15.13 ||3.32 || 19.38 |3.48
- S. N. N. | N. N. . s. -
Lat. o, 11 | 1.48 || o. 6 o. 8 | 1.30 2.o
3.
8
º
I
The O was in an exićt parallel of 3 's declina
tion; the D in the 5 of 3 of the nativity. -
December 17, 1634, the Stars were found as
under :
| O | }) lſ | 3 || 2 || 8 || 9 |
Deg. | f | m. SU ºf 2: Vºf >{
of -la- --
Long. 25.39|20.o. 24.10 |2.54|28.4 12 51 15.31 | 16.52
: S. l. N. . . N. S. s. s.
Lat. 4.27| I. 2 |o. 1 3| 1.16 | 1.53 | 1, 2
The O’s conjunction with H in the 8 of his pro
greſfion, and in h the 8 exačtly to the o’s pro
greſfion; the D remaining with the declination of
h in 8 of his progreſſion, and in the ſeſqui-qua
drate of 3 , when he was ſeparated from the A o
11. There was a full e December 5 before her
death, the O remaining above h of the progreſ
fions.
A a 2 JO HN
*8e R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT IV. I T I E S.
JOHN BAPTIST CARDAN.
EDUSA's head on the cuſp of the ſeventh
houſe, with 2 and the P, &c. April 9,
1560, he was beheaded, at the age of 25 years,
1o months, and 26 days. ~
John Baptiſt, eldeſt of Jerome Cardan, who
firſt calculated it; after him, Valentine Naybod,
and laſtly, John Anthony Maginus, three very
learned and celebrated authors, though none of
them would allow the D to be hyleg. But, agree
able to Ptolemy's method, I inſiſt ſhe is ſignifica
tor of life, and at the time of his death was di
rečted to a parallel declination of 3, near 13° 50'
of ga, were having 2° South latitude, her declina
tion is 20° 50'. Next follows the 3 of h, and the
parallel ofhis declination, he being very unfortu
nate, and not agreeing with the ſigns of the lumi
aaries, threatened, according to Ptolemy, the anger
of the Prince, and the ſentence of the judges; for
aſ is Weſtern retrograde, peregrine with 3 and 3
of 3, with the declination of h .
The D too, by a converſe direction, came to the
mundane parallel of h, ſucceeded by that of 3 and
nt. The direétion's arc for 25 years 11 months,
is 26° 32'; for the G from the day of the birth in
the
R E M A. R. K. A B L E N AT I W P T H E S. 13;
the ſpace of 25 days 22 hours, arrives at 27° 17' of
II, whoſe right aſcenſion is 87° 2'; from which,
ſubſtraćting 60° 30', there remains the arc of di
rečtion 26° 32'.
The oblique aſcenſion of the D’s 8 under the
pole 44° (for the D is on the cuſp of the ſeventh
houſe) is 279°37'; to which, adding the arc of
direction 26°32', makes 306° 9'; which in the
ſame table of oblique aſcenſion, anſwers to 13° 30
of ºf, with 2° North latitude; the pole of this
place is 20° 50'; the calculation of the D’s con
verſe direction to the mundane parallel of h will
be thus: The declination of Ł 21° 22', is equal to
69° 24′ in the ecliptic, whoſe noćturnal horary
times are 18°42'; the oblique aſcenſion of his 8 in
the horoſcope 315° 26'; from which ſubſtraćting
the horoſcope's oblique aſcenſion, there remains
b's diſtance from the Weſt 38° 32'.
The D's declination 19°22', is reduced to 8 26°
in the ecliptic, whoſe noćturnal horary times (for
the D is poſited below the earth) are 11°42'; from
which, ſubſtraćting the horoſcope's oblique aſcen
ſion, leaves her primary diſtance from the Weſt
2° 33' (f). D
. M.
As the diurnal horary times of h - 18 42
is to his diſtance from the Weſt - 38 22
ſo is the D's noćturnal horary times 1 I 42
to her ſecondary diſtance Weſt - 24 o
(f) The Moon to the inundane parallel of Saturn converſe.
which
182 R E M A R K A B L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 E. s.
which added to the primary, as the in the nati
vity is above the earth, and by the direétion po
fited below, makes the direétion's arc 26° 33'.
The ſecondary directions happen on the 9th of
June, 1534, 4b Io P. M. at which time the ſe
condary direétions were as follows:
Sl II II | Sl
of
| * | * |a
| = |
|oris
Long. 27.22 |3.3" | 26.31 oR 16 || 13.59 | 1R36 23R22|9. 2
S N. S. N. S. S.
Lat 4, 33 o. I 3 || O-2 I o.34 || I. I 4.2o
The progreſſions fall on June 17, 1536; the , -
remains in II 20°, and the reſt as under :
º
)
Deg. II
Lon. 5. o zo. o. 21.31 |rz.45 2.20 6.1o 28.0 |29.56
--
Lat. o.52, 1.1 2 | 1.31 |9.34 1.23 o. 50
* E M A R K a B L E N AT I v it 1 Es. Iss
April the 9th, 1560, the Stars were in their
places, viz.
G) D | H | | | 3 || 2 || 8 || 3
II
Deg. cy" -º- II own
of
Long. 29.29 14.54 || 6-31|8. 17 o-37 i 17.27 23.46 | 19.21
× or X
In the ſecondary direétion the D had a declina
tion 16° 17', and that of 3 was 17° 15', and the D
was near Aldebaran and Meduſa's head. The day
he died, both enemies where found above this
place of the D in II 4°. Beſides, the G), by a ſecond
ary direétion, was in 3 to § retrograde, who having
a declination 19°, and communicating to 3 from
the parallel, transferred enmity of the G), who, on
the ſame day was found in the D of h’s ſecondary
dire&tion, and in the D of 3 of the nativity, un
fortunate. -
In the progreſſion the was found above her
place of the nativity in 6 to § , under the O's
rays near Meduſa's head; and the day he died, 3
had a parallel declination to her. The ſame day
ſhe applied to the D of h’s radical place, the O
was in A of 3 of the progreſſion, exactly to mi
nutes, viz. 11° 14'.
FRANCIS
1st R E M A R KAB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es.
F R A N C I S,
A YouNg CHILD of D. CAMILLUs PIAzzoli,
of PADUA.
TE was born in the year and day, as placed
in the celeſtial conſtitution, and baptized
immediately, as he was not expected to live.
He did not live to the end of his third year; for
on the 7th of March, about the 20th hour, he was
drowned in a ſmall quantity of water in a place
where chickens uſed to drink.
In this nativity, if the place of the pars fortune
is calculated in the common way, it will fall in
1, 20° 27'; to which, altogether, and without
any exception, according to Ptolemy, the ſigni
fication of life belong, which indeed does not
ſeem to ſuffer there any violence, or deadly direc
tions, to the third year.
If any one ſupoſes he finds any, I beg he would
diſcover it.
But according to the ingenious invention of Ne
guſantius, we look for the place of the pars fortur
na, thus: -
The o’s oblique aſcenſion taken in the horo
ſcope is 7° 45'; which, ſubſtraćted from the horoſ
- cope's
R E M A R KAB L * N AT 1 v it if s. its
ſcope's oblique aſcenſion, leaves the o’s diſtance
from it 242° 52' : I add this to the 5's right aſ
cenſion, and I make the right aſcenſion of pars
fºrtuna 198° 32, which, as we have ſaid, will
contain the D's declination. I ſubſtraćt the right
aſcenſion of the medium cali, from that of pars
jortunae, and its diſtance therefrom is 37° 55';
and as its horary times are 11°9', it doubtleſs re
mains about the middle of the eleventh houſe,
where 3's 8, and a coſmical ray of h’s fall.
But let us calculate theſe rays exactly:
As the horary times of pars - - 11 9
is to its diſtance from the medium caeli 37 55 .
ſo is 3's horary times - - - 12 57
to his 2ndary diſt, from the imum cell 44 2
his primary diſtance is 48° 40'; from which, ſub
ſtraćting the ſecondary, leaves the direétion's arc
of pars to 3 's 8 4° 38'.
Again. The ſemi-diurnal arc of pars is 66°54,
and is taken from the horary times multiplied by
6; therefore, if from the ſemi-diurnal arc is ſub
ſtraćted its diſtance from the medium caeli, there
will remain the diſtance from the horoſcope 28°
59. Now I ſay, - -
As the horary times of parsfortune 11 9
Is to its diſtant horoſcope - - 28 59
So is h’s horary times - - - 18 57
To his ſecondary diſtance from the
medium caeli - - - 49 16
B. b from .
*
º
186 R E M A R K AB L E N AT 1 v 1 T 1 Es.
from which ſubſtraćting the primary 46° 28,
leaves the direétion’s arc of pars fortunae to the
coſmical D of h 2°48'. But the GB remained
about the beginning of m, H, in the eighth houſe,
the D in ::, and both the D and (B under a pa
rallel of Ł 's declination, and (B applied to the
hoſtile rays of the enemies, which threatens drown
ing, as Ptolemy ſays in the chapter of death.
What wonder, then, if this unhappy infant met
with the above-mentioned fate, and came into the
world attended with nothing but ſickneſs.
It is rather wonderful he ſurvived; the reaſon
he did, was perhaps owing to the coſmical paral
le! of nſ concurring to that part; which, if any
chooſes, he may calculate, and will find I am
right. - - -
But nº being unfortunate, nay, very much ſo,
and alone againſt two enemies, could be of no
ſervice; and what is worth obſerving, that at the
20th hour of the 7th of March, in which the in
fant was drowned, 3 went over the middle of the
fifth houſe, that is, the 8 of the mundane place of
the GB, and h in the middle of the ſecond, in the
n of the ſame; ſo that we know there was no
other place of the @, except that which we have
calculated: and this method concerning it, is cer
tainly conformable to reaſon, and alſo experi
ence. -
Receive,
R E M A R KAB I, E N AT Ivy T1 E. s. 187
Receive, my very courteous reader, this ſecret in
Elementary Philoſophy in love.
And may the concluſion of the whole work turn to the
praiſe of ALMIGHTY GOD. A
DIEU a
T H E E N D.
*
-
* --
* ~ * *
-
* -
--- - - - -
* -- - * *
-
- -
- - - -
-
-
- - -
-
- -
- -
- -
-
-
* -
- - - -
º
-- -- a
- * *
-
- - - - *
-
-
-
-
-
- -
- 0
.5- - º - .. * S. 0
--> - © %. 3% y’ == *
| *a- A* e ‘P &
|
--
| yº . 43 C Lºtdºe” – *.
| *3 (aražna/ 7?rezli. -
$ Zºoz72 ... " s
#3 Yr 24 #, §
º * *-37|| 29*. Wozember. 19. H -J/ ~.
"|→ * - S.
|- > ~e 34 mºre. Z”. M. 13
~ - - -> 2372. * **
t ‘º. -
Deckmanon'ſ
16 —
6
27
Z3artholomeo Maſcar.
an Eminent 7%9.rician
cº- ofBononia. -->
Z3or” –
13 */ebruary. 12 Jſ
26 min. Z' M.
a 60.3 .
3.57 - 23
Se º, c. *. 0
º AS . " Yºs, w
*...* º 49
Y -A
O 6 - 43
q 0aavian A/ºrandžme, *.- *
a N.
§ & - Zorn’ – o
s 77°3′pºnder
.2 -
20
Sº-T_> 72 M. 27 ºnzzz, J -
-->
*
- 1687. ~~
7.5 – 79
* :
s
.
M.
- - §
c. * * * sº *. - s
#.” w •
º Ž º * \ - -
/ 2 22 - 18
* a- Francºr -) *.
| , “ * Zła zºo/e o/*/?idue. •
º
->
sº “U” - Z}orre >.
Š re, z/. &
is . Tº & N.
- * - 47 min. P.M. , ,
2 76.5.2. S”
9%
-
2
-
Jºnºr”7-
:
•2
*
4
o
3
*
&
%
a
'
*";
&
z/ºr
ſy...ſº
tºruz
6t.
/
ra
'yourſ;
or
zzzzogſ
nºparv4
ºr
Zvez?.azy
…”27
>'s
- -- - - - - - - - - -
--_-
-
~-
-
~~~~
Z57./8
0”,
„…º0
*
§
¶
¡
¿
||（.*.§
§.ș
ș’
，
«
s
$
$
$
$
$º
J
|
8 <>^ų
șŘ
Ř
Ř
Š
ŠŠ„nºi
§
§
§.§
§,
ºg
§.§
3Š
š„-“
º
§ș|“qw
0.
__-----
~~~~
~~
s
Aºražnaza' Gonzaga
Duke of Aſanda.
Złorzt. —
26 Líprić, a Z.
z znzzz. Z’, AM.
º
24,5-22
Jewis (ºrdina/
%acáza,
Zorn,
49*.March.9//,
15 min. AE.1/;-
7~
323 -22
zà
_------
-
£
6
*
-->
//
*
4.
9
*
º
2
/
*
*
*
*
s
#
Zerzzoz.
2.2%zº
Jºrºzºzzzzzz
£4.
Z
rºzzenſ,
or
zzzogº
‘zzzzzzzz”y
zvºzzey
encozzº
*sº
|\,
X;
&
of
.
0
0/
<>
-
&
#
*ē,
º:
Zr
s
##
22zzzzp/
,
£4%z.
JV.
Z.
2422&
97
A/
97
*22zºoſ,
9
-
24/ogy
22&zºy/vºzzz)
&zzzz”/)
Yºs
s"A
\}
•º,
tº
.
.
*
Q
:
Joã-2.
§ 5% &
e.g. - 4. º 4. Q * , &
..º. Y ,
~ * , A $ 2 ~ * ‘.
* ... *** . . . * *
`- % *.*, *)
M. - - **
, x dardina/ /?inctro/ . . *.
6 -
•e” J3ozºn. e
H s
s K ze “January, a J/ >s
* > N
*. 43 min & P. M. A^
2 - 1337. t.M
.#8
40.
21
-----
----|
-
7o
-
3
Ń
ș
，
x
*
，
,
\\$
,
*
*,
**,
*）
„
…
}
|
+5
`a
ef
.）
$·
49
•
·
7,
8~
çº,
º3
0S
+
qº'º
'
（
61
ș
…
|
§
ſo
ſº
ț¢
-Š
Š}
}-
|
<
.
（
§
§
§
§
§
}
$
$
$
$
$
$
"|°
•
×
§
§
|
*
·
*
^>
）S
Şş
|
0
�
|
0
ºſ
,0
ºff
º
x
V^
--
--
42
-
oº2，
—
—
s
49
gºzzzzz
c."
Zººz
z
/ī/.2
ºzzzz
za
K
ZZ
zá’
&z”/";6r
*
2220g/T
...,
|zºzº
ºr
*
*zrºzſ,
Zr-
67
ºr
gº
/
%
...
W.
R.
.
.
A
z
AS-
w
&
Q ,
0
W
*
-
Q
,
”
6%
t
;
+ 3 - a
Jamſranch.
750rzz.
_72 *Jºzemżer. 22 //
11 man. Z’, M.
-
~
–73.59.
Margozur (ardina/
^ --> ,
i
;K ,9.
A% Castavus Ado/o/*
* AA
** Any of wooden.
— Bozzº –
toº Pacember 7 //
**. 42 min. A.A1.
.. 1594.
/atitude
s
II
re-2sºn.6°ny
92.
e.”
.
Y.
*
<
*.
‘s
º
e
º
2racy
2p
nºzo'7
94%r
zazog
C-
2uoy
ſo
a
SC
ºrm.º.º.2M
wozovoo
s
=~~~==~
/
~
-----~--~----~~~~
~~~~===~~~~
~~
~~
~~~~
6 - Octavius >- N.
!” (ardina/ Z3arzaizzz'. ^
; :
Zorzz — -
23 # 06/o/er. 27 /
*> 41 muzz. 7°. M. A 0 |
4
e Z558. y - t
1.5 23
16
20
o - .36 -
25 - 38 -
27
6 *
2 o'
77
27-222
s
**
2ngyoz
Aſ
•
2
r
ºr
e."
3'
ſy.
Zºzzzzzz
92
•º.
-
ZZ
or
22.24%
re.
º
Q
zzzºz.
–
*S.
e
zzzzzzz.”zza/º
Ao
-
çºº
-
zazzzzzzzz
Çt
.
**)
zzzzzzzzzey
3.247
4.
zz
-
ºr
ºf
92
-
4.2%
º
º
*:::-
º
*
-
w
-
W
.*
“a
0.
es.
**
J
~
\,
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
！==
<---
------
-
-
-
-
-
----
-
--------
-*------
---------
-
-
-
-
sº **
; J.- 2
** ". . .
§.
&ražna/Złur.
_Z5ozzz
& * January.2, Z/
.33 zzzzzz.-Z’,M.
z.58.3.
&
4T, 27
>:
i
wº
L_'）
----
~~
~~~~
~~~~
~~
-
·~~
~~
-
·----
-
！~
~
~
}
–
~
~
~
~
~~~
~~~~）.
-
***•
Zºzzzzz ZZe/ºzzzzz
Azzo ºf Żarrace.
Zºozze
23-22ecerreàe” zz ZZ
: §
§
Zecazeerarozzº
9 -- zºº - S
^ - - 32 – J
22 -- z2 - 5
2. -- 37 - J’
26 - - 39 - 5
2.; -- Zo - A/
- 16 - AW
25
--
-
----
----
-
s
Z;7&
zz “Z”zzz zz Z.
z7 zzzz. Z'. Aſ
º
ZzZzZezafºr
o -- 6'
-Z -- 0:5
–7 - - .2 o
o -- 0
7 - - 7.5
..? -- o
4 - - ZZ W
*.*
«»
z&
29
49
Z
2.7
- -, Z5
-- as
- - 77
- - - 7.3
- - 40
-- */
- - 40
Zecºzzzzzozz.r
—L––
ſł
ſił
272 - 42
Zążzzzzzar
Caražnaz
|
Aeroziuſ
Zorn,
6." March. Ze //
zz zrezz. Z’ A/.
.239 - 42
a o 6 - o
2 3 * c \\ w
-> * , ~ Ne -
•- • ‘ > ºb
. --> sº . & -
=\{
| w
- . cº-Zeonora --> *.
24% , 8 |Ducheſ of ºrna. •
S. * Złorn — >:
sº ze “March. .7 / "...a s
- Č. o mun. P. M. 40 . ".
- o 2370. *:: -
_）
---
---
~--~~~~
~~~~
~~=
！=
--！=-----„
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—~
~--~~~~
-.•
/N 9 8
s
~. $ • Sº, * , ,
<-> %. , -
S’ - £ W.
- ſº Ys
e- * —- y
\
w
.** &erar &azzer V cº
6 . . 4% Z. *-5.
º 6 C- mºeror -> -
w º of Gerrazzy. e §
K Z5oz-zz Xs
2-y S.
* 23 ... Zºzzary 4A
*> zº ZZ 7.9 ºr Zº. A/. -
2 Z.542 o 2”
2. “) Zafizadº. 2%
&#14 -?” Cr- /N
* *-*) c. * *. Saº
926-40/ . * - " , 0 & *>
3% Yvo w * q, z A.
* <> 4. -
N >, —a & çº <->
- 13
37
32
~
~
~
~
−
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
---------
—
—
—
—
—
—
—----
... ." || Zuke ºf Zarma | * *,
§ × º _/Porzz |-- e- §
sk Sº, 26 Mazzº. 76 //- |34-42 X;
3. .** "|- 22 zzzzzz Z” AM. 6 §
*-*. 7.569 •. .
**, *. Zazàude 7% y^
** as:-
2 Z.5 - 4: 2
•
0
e
º
<
**qº·
···
`N
，，\*№.
º
sº,|
1-§
.|
�¿?|ŠŞ<>>
«tº
º'|
}
}
}
}
}
}
$
$
$
$
$
$
∞È
§ș
și
º.ºeº|
$,
qº,，c.
º.„
“，
}）;«Q
*?)Aſº
..?.5 - 42
***•
•
•
•
••
•
•►
►
►
►
►
►
–
„_-
_）
：-）
----
i
Zſº
rº
£2
fa
+
p.
4×2:
42
422'
94'
(ºr
*
Zºzº
ruovozº.”(7.
i
----
·
----
------
*:
·t:
.*
*
4262-36
,
，
,
º,
()
-
Aº+
——>
+----•
^{
§
|
Ş
,
,
|}
|
}}}
|
33
$
$
$§§
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
|
！!
!！
|
Ş
|
°
§
Sººs
*
.0
è）,}
272-26
~,
，
~~
~~~~
~~~~
-.••
-
-
•
~
.----
