{"name":"Astronomy And Elementary Philosophy","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1789__sibly___astronomy_and_elementary_philosophy.pdf","mytitle":"Astronomy And Elementary Philosophy","mylang":"de"}
."
dſ .' .
JVYC, , .'.- i
1 ASTRONOMY
A N o \
_ ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY,
PLACIDUS DE*TITUS:
Wherein is lhewn, from Phyſical and Aﬅronomical Principle', the
Nature of Atmoſpherica] Inﬂux, communicated to Earthly Sub
ﬅances by the Motion, Ajþectx, and Puſ-'tion of the Hea-urnly Badiu,
in forming the whole Anima of Nature, particularly in MAN, the v
Epitame oſ the Cnatia'r l-the World in Miniaturc !-Thc whole
comprehending, by theſe cﬃcient Cauſe: and their Eﬀects, the true
Doctrine of ralmlating Ndli-vz'rirr, in ſo plain and ſimple a Method,
as to be perfectly attainable by the meaneﬅ Capacity, and in a Man
;zer ſuperior to any yet publiſhed in the Engliſh Languagc,
' To waxen An Aoozo,
. Izztroductary Notes and Oþſcrwtiom,
With a Coneiſc Method of judging HORAIY Wrsrlous, ſelect
Aruonrsus,and every other Requiſite to clucidate EtznthAnY
Aczncv, and to form acomplete Body oſ Asrnnr. KNGWLiDGx.
Tin: wnou: cnxzruLLY dumb
BYM.SIBLY.
" 'The Heq'ac'i: GOD': Book, 'be Sf'r: are Letterxfaiſir,
ſ' GOD is 'be Writer, Men 'be Reader: are."
' Ovro,
gun
'L 0 N D 0 N':
. Printed by W.Jusnns, Blackfriars; and fold by Mr. Bzw, Pater
ndſter Row; Mr. RICHARDSON, under' the Royﬂl Exchange;
Mr. MATHZWI, in the Sin-and; Mr. Dzznr'rr, Piccadilly;
_ Meﬂ'rs. M. and Sun', Goſwcll-ﬅreet; and Mr. EnMVNB
Sun', Brick-lime, Spiralﬁﬂds.
M,ncc,uxxrx.
a' w*"w T =-> r
AKM- 7 zmzﬅ'mbuzctſio'z dﬄ you _.'
ﬀ , ,, ' .' Wﬀiomo Io'lomon. M-G. zdrgJooe II. a,
..---..
.
Q. ..__TH Ex
* EDIT-OR'S A'DDRES
IT is anbbſhrvalion, founded on trzitb anzl exit
perience, that the/in? and' Scieneex; 'like King
dom: and fS'tlates, have tlzeii- loſſ-'and fall. As_
TRONOM'Y ba; ridden triumphant; ever 'ſim- it
'was 'Nought to that degree of accuracy it 'now
ﬅands. in, by [ſhe immortal' Newron; yet, unyi
derſſed in iiſeﬀ, cat from E'lementary Phi
loſophy, ils moﬅ eſſential part, Aﬅronomy
'would appear a: a eabinet 'without a jewel ; a
mere idleſheealation, poﬄﬄd of no eſſential _ re
guiſite to recommend iﬀelf to the ﬅudious and in
telligent. But 'when joined to that part tlze
Metapbyſies, ealledELBMENTARY PHILOSOPHY,
'z'oeſhallﬁnd it replete 'with uſeſnl inﬅruction, and
conduct-w to. e'veny ſalutary playe/e of making
mankindhappier and [letten
A 2 I:
_______ -__-_.
4 THE En'mox's ADDRESS.
A It is true, men in this age have heenſo hzſy in
Aﬅronomieal reſearches, that thisſuhlirne part of
Science has heen much neglected; it therefore ap- -
pears ahſolutely neceſſary, for the lo-vers of Ele
mentary PhiZo/ophy to ran/e themſelvesfrom their
ſnpinencyſs, and once more attempt to give Urania
the honourſo her due. _
That this purpoſe may he anſwered, we here
oﬀer the Pnhlie a Tranſlation of that truZy 'valu
ahle work ofPLACIDUS DE TITUS, with
NOTEs, ADDITIONS, &Ye. &it.
This work may truly he deemed Multum in
Parvo, as it will contain, in one neat porket' 'vo
lame, all that is eſſe-ful and neceſſary to form an
adept in the Sideral Mﬅeries. In thisſerﬀe it is
recommended 'to theperly/ed of the impartialſhy
Their humhleſervant,
M. S I B. L Y.
No. 35, Goſwcll-ﬅreet.
To: the READER.
ct i TH regard to 'the revolutions of the
. ct Stars and their eﬃcient power, no one,
unleſs bereft of his ſenſes, will deny, thata
genuine and true ſcience may exiﬅ, though
_f0r a man to make a full acquirement'in it,
muﬅ be doubtleſs acknowledged no very eaſy
talk 3 and particularly, becauſe its object is by
nature incorruptible 3 its properties altogether
unchangeable 5 and the paﬃons are concluded
inan uniform manner. , X
By the Egyptiang Arabz'am, Perſians, Medes
and other' very extenſive nations, this ſcience
was cultivated in the ﬁrﬅ. place among all the
natural ſciences: by kings and the greateſt
princes it was alſo held in the higheﬅ honour.
The truth of this is found in ſeveral places.
among hiﬅorical annals.-Having always had
an eager deſire from my youth to attain it,
Iſiboldly entered upon it, with no leſs chear
' fulneſs
6 TO THIS RLADER.
fulneſs Of mind' than hopes of acquiring it,
In this purſuit I have ſþent ſeveral years,
labouring much; but I was greatly oﬀended
at many things the profeſſors had lately in
troduced as diſcoveries, determining, that un
leſs they were ﬅrictly cenſormable to reaſOn
and experience, and the opinions oſthe greateﬅ
doctors in phyſic and. mathematics, to lay aſide
entirely their_whole works, being likewiſe On
the point of bidding adieu to all watchings 5
therefore, after uniting all the powers oſ my
underﬅanding, I ſecretly determined to inveſ
tigate the chief cauſes and ﬁrﬅ principles of
this ſcience, which, by arguing from reaſon,
made pra and can, and as I ſound them every
where to be probable, and agreeable to reaſon',
I gladly communicated to the proſeſſors and
my friends, my diſcoveries ; and, happily, they
Were not treated as chimerical, or thought
contrary to reaſon. Nay, they ſeemed to be
i greatly deſired: and being ſrequently entreated
to commit them to writing, have publiſhed ſi
this ſhort extract, or abﬅract, comprehending
a very conciſe theory and praxis' 5 to which I
ſubjoined ſeveral _ examples, extracted from.
Very eminent authors, by whom my own rea- _
' ſons
TOTHEREADER, 7
ſons were highly applauded; and, under the
title of CELESTIAL PHILOSOPHY, I exhibited
an univerſal ſeries oſ diſputations, which'
might repreſent the reaſons and principles as
diﬀuſedly as poſſible, in prhportion as time and
fortune gave me liberty: wherefore, having
oﬀered to the public, and given an explanation
oſ eVery thing, (ſome were indeed ſuxprizedſſ
the ﬅrangeneſs of the doctrine) none have
hitherto attempted to oppoſe the reaſon and
cauſes on which they depend. Some, with their
applauſes, mingled no ſmall degree ofpleaſure,
by reaſon that the principles oſ this moﬅ
noble ſcience, which were formerly natdral,
and aptly ſuited to reaſon, were now clearly
explained, which the ſenſes plainly diſcover;"
_ and it is evidently certain, that they wonder;
fully agree with the very nature of things,
and correſpond with the accidental eﬀects;
and among the philoſophical ſciences, that of ,
the ﬅars may, and ought, with very good
reaſon, claim the pre-eminence; but becauſe
of the diﬃculty oſ the calculations, whichI
have there explained very copiouſly, intended
for the learned, ﬅudents are greatly diſcoſſud
raged, I thought of giving another expla
nation
3 To THE READER,
nation for general uſe, more copious and _ per
ſpicuous, of' all and each of the rules, together
with the tables that, are neceſſary, premiſing
what related to the knowledge of the theory,
in very ſhort theﬁs, 'that thoſe who had not
gone through the labour attending diſpu
tations, might comprehend, in very few words,
the cauſes and principles which I have laid
down, and from which is derived all this con
ﬅruction of numbers.
Laﬅly. I have added, as well to facilitate
calculations, as to conﬁrm the truth of things,
the examples of thirty famous men*', which
I have extracted, only from the moﬅ 'learned
anthem. Yet let every one remember, that
nature in her means and eﬀects, conducteth
herſelf ſo ſecretly, that a man's underﬅand
ing cannot trace her footﬅeps without the
greateﬅ labour and induﬅry, which the many
diﬀerences of opinion maintained among the
profeſſors of Philoſophy, who diſagree among
themſelves concerning the things of nature,
muﬅ evince: and do not her changes and
mighty eﬀects, in this vaﬅ conﬅruction of
' Theſe thirty Narivities are in'ended to be given in
another Volume, ſpeedily to be publiſhed.
the
TOTHEREADER. 9
the world, appear wonderful, and altogether
unſearchable! Without doubt it muﬅ be
confeſſed that the mind of man is too weak to
comprehend them; ſo that no one can be ſur
prized if the method of calculating ſhould be
attended with ſome diﬃculty. The work of
the Eﬃcicnt Inﬁnite Powcr and Fitneſs, is the
concord and harmony of nature 5 but if it
concerns any inﬁnity, at leaﬅ as to the variety
of eﬀects, I have compriſed a diviſion, or a
calculating of numbers, &e. In a work,
the power and wiſdom of the artiﬅ is ever
perſpicuous, what wonder then, if the un
derﬅanding of man is utterly unable, fully to
comprehend the works of God l For who will
endeavour to empty with a cup the waters of
the deep, which is as a drop of a bucket com
pared with the Omnipotencq of the Creator!
And ſhall we, with our conﬁned power of un
derﬅanding, preſume to comprehend, in any
ſhape whatever, the prodigious extent of the
heavens, from an idea of the immenſity of the
ſurrounding ſpace? The utmoﬅ ﬅretch of'
human thought cannot attain the leaﬅ notion
of it ! Admire the reﬅ, which is almoﬅ inﬁ
Me: B
the
10 Torntktabtn;
Learn, friendly Reader, to experience that
you may comprehend the ſweet inﬂuence oſ
the PLEIADES, and what is meant by the Band:
of Orian, job xxxviii. 31. then you will have a
true enjoyment in the wonderful works of the
MOST HIGH. '
INTRODUCTORY
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
He 'Twelve Signs and their Diviſio'u.
HE Zodiac being a great circle of the ſphere,
is divided into 360 degrees ; every degree is
- ſubdivided into 60 other diviſions, called minutes ;
and every minute into 60 ſeconds, thirds, fourths,
and farther, ifneceſſary.
Every ſign contains 30 oſtheſe degrees, and thus
12 ſigns, compriZe the whole Zodiac.
NAMES AND CHARACTERS.
non-runu srcns._\ BOUJHEEN smuh
cY' Aries A Libra
3 Taurus m Scorpio
n Gemini , I Sagitarius
25 Cancer he Capricorn
51, Leo i a: Aquarius
'm Virgo X' Piſces
The firſt ſix ſigns are called. Northern, becauſe
they decline from the Equinoctial line towards the
North Pole; the latter-ſix are called Southern, be
cauſe they decline from the Equinoctinl, towards
the South Pole. '
B 2 ' This
'I INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS.
This Zodiac cuts the Equator, or Equinoctial,
in two oppoſite points; that is, in the beginning of
Aries and Libra, which are called the Equinoctial
Point. .
' Seven Planets move conﬅantly in theſe twelve
ſigns; their names, characters, and qualities, are
thus diﬅinguiſhed:
Meat: I; Saturn - Cold and dry
JJ le 74 Jupiter - Hot and moiﬅ
02 L Jb a Nla'rs - Hot and dry
MZ lb 'O Sol (the Sun) - Hot and dry
A; al: 2 Venus - Cold and moiﬅ
'Y hlercury - Convertible, variable
do), at ' D Luna (the Moon) Cold and moiﬅ
The twelve ſignsof the Zodiac are divided into
triplicities, according to the four elements, ﬁery,
airy, eatthy, and watery.
II 5.? L' Kiery 'Y' S'L t
.*_'_ p iry - n A t:
_ is U Earthy Signs are 8 "my
A? L. Watry 23 m X
Fiery ſigns are ſaid to be in nature hot and dry;
airy, hot and moiﬅ; earthy, cold anddry; and
watry, cold and mctoiﬅ.
Characters and Names of the tWo Nodes, and the Part
of Fortune. i
I. Caput Dtaconis 53 The Dragon's Head
- 2. Cauda Draconis 29 The Dragon's Tail
3. Pars Fortuna: O The Part of Fortdnc
. _ The
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. r;
The ſeven planets moving in the twelve ſigns,
make ſeveral angles and afpects with each other;
and from their inﬂux, the generation and corruption
of all ſublunaries are cauſed-The Plate explains
them.
They are alſo divided into moveable, ﬁxed and
common ſigns, as,
"la-5: T as A be moveable
bit 8 Elms: ﬁxed
r 11 "12 X common
With relation to their fixed, common, or move
able qualities, they behold each other with a 0 .
oþ 'r 11 51 A I 3: maſculine
Age 3 95 mzmkf X feminine
(fdſi/ rza 51, them: r ſigns of right aſcenſion
egg) kfz: X th g 11 [ſigns-of oblique aſcenſion A
aſſ', in X and the beginning of 1 are double bodied
ſigns
gain x fruitful ſigns
n gL in: barren ſigns
They are divided into four parts, anſwerable to
the four quarters of the year. '
Vernal or t; n to the ſpring quarchr, hot and
moiﬅ-ſanguine. By),
fEﬅival as 51 am to the ſummer quarter, hotand
dry-choleric. 5, grind
Autumn Am I to the harveﬅ quarter, cold and
dry-melancholy. a, or
ȜVinter box: X the winter quarter, cold and
moiﬅ-phiegmatic. (But i
The
14 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
rſhe ſigns are alſo termed
Mute 27: m X
Humane 11 Wax:
A lt ſhould be obſerved that a planet in 'r caſis
his dexter to at, and ſiniﬅer'to n ; his 0 dexter to
U', a ſiniﬅer to L'B ; A dexter to 1', A ﬁniﬅer to
a, and his 8 to a; and ſo of the reﬅ.
The Uﬅ of tbe Table aſ Eﬃntial Dig'riticr.
[See the Plate.]
Two ſigns or houſes, are appr0priate to each
planet, except the O and 1) , they having each but
one, Fz hath l/fﬂnd x; 14, I andx; a, <Y* and
in; the o, 51; the 1) , gz,&c.
*Y* is the day houſe as the D ſigniﬁes, and 3 is
the night houſeof 9 , as the N denotes; O is ex.
alted in cV', the I) in 3, 11. in fro, &e.
The O and 'u rule the ﬁery tiplicity: 2 and
the D the earthy; I; and If the airy; 3 the
watry; 11 hath the ﬁrﬅ degrees of <Y*, for his
term; 2 hath hers from the 6th to the I4th, &e.
' a hath the ﬁrﬅ face in lY*; O the ſecond; 2
the third; 2 alſo hath her detriment there; and
I; his fall, becauſe it is oppoſite to A, which is
her houſe, and ly's exaltation.
A planet digniﬁed, as above, is ſaid to be in his
eſſential dignities. Accidentaldignities are, when
planets
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS' 's
planets are caſually in an angle, or ſuccedent houſe,
direct, and free from combuﬅion. '
A planet in his houſe, or exaltation, being ſigni
ﬁcator of any perſon, denotes him to be in a happy
and proſperous condition, not wantingſor the goods
ofthisliſe, andſias a man in a ſortiﬁed citadel, ſecure
from danger.
A planet debilitated, as being in its detriment or
fall, and aﬄicted, denotes the querent to he in a
very low and mean condition, much dejected, and
diſconſolate, &c. *
The O is the principal planet of the ſeven, and
is accounted King among the reﬅ, and has therefore
the'ſign er appropriated to him for his exaltation,
as being the principal point oſ the Zodiac, ,-and
the ſuperior planets have aſſigned unto them, the
other cardinal points as A to 19, 23 to u, 'ce to
3 .
The exaltations are taken proportionally to the
planets virtues and power, and therefore the O be
ing the moﬅ glorious planet, hath aﬃgned him W',
the grand point of the Zodiac, wherein it is ſup
poſed he wa's created, T; being the next hath A the
other equinoctial point, and 11, and a the two tro
pics, and thus are the four cardinal points diſpoſed
of. As the three ſuperiors have the three cardinal
points &je-p, and he allotteſid them ſor exaltation,
and the O the principal point i<v*, ſo the inferior
planets have aﬃgned to them thoſe ſigns next ſol
lowing, as 32 , ma; L , X; and to the I) , 5;&c.
T/Je
16 lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVAT10NS.
The Signiﬁcation the Twelve Hanſhs Heat/en.
TH'E FIRST House or angle, is called the Ea/I
angle or aſcendant, in queﬅions; the O and planets
aſcend there. But in nativities it is called the
Horoſcope in the the hour of birth, and ſigniﬁes
the life, complexion, diſpoſition, will, manners,
and underﬅanding of the native or querent: it ſig
niﬁes the head and face : the conſiguiﬁcators oſthis
houſe are Aſ' and b .
In eclipſes and great cer-junctions, or ſolar irr
greſſes, the aſcendant ſigniﬁes the common people,
or general ﬅate of that kingdom, where the ſcheme
is ſet for. lſ the aſcendant be vitiated, the native
or querent is marked in the face by ſome mole or
fear; it is a maſculine houſe; and of colours, ſigni
ﬁes white. lt is the joy-'oſ y .
THE SECOND HoUSE ſigniﬁes the eſinte, ſore
tune, and riches of the native; as alſo gain, traſ
ſic, gold, ſilver, and all moveable goods, with
out life. lt alſo denotes loſs and gain by traﬃc : it
is a houſe ſuccedent, as following the Eaﬅ angle or
aſcendant. lt ſigniﬁes a man's aſſiﬅant in-privnte
duels; in eclipſes, or great coujuctions, the wealth
or poverty of the nation or kingdom in general.
Herein is included the ſubjects or common per ple-1
or in the ſuns ingreſs into m, it ſignifies the coun
try's, or common wealth's magazines, or ammuni
tion: it alſo repreſents the allies and ſupports, or
' whatever
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. '7
whatever is aﬃﬅant to them. It is a feminine
houſe, and of colours ſigniﬁes green. Appropriate
to 3 and at.
THE THIRD House ſigniﬁes brethren, ſiﬅers,
kindred, ſhort voyages and journies, interpretation
of dreams, rumours, &c. advice given. It is a ca
dent houſe, and nlſo ſigniﬁes epiﬅles written, or
letters, meſſengers, &c. It is maſculine, and of
colours denotes yellow or ſorrel. It is appropri
ate to' n and a , and is thejoy of the D .
THE FOURTH House ſigniﬁes fathers, houſes,
lands, immoveable goods, orchards, tillage, mine
rals, hidden treaſures, or things under the earth,
priſons, and obſcure deſolate places, the grave, and
good Areport after this life; and, ﬁnally, the period
of all things undertaken. It is called the North
Angle; itis alſo ſigniﬁcant of tOWns, cities, or caſ
tles beſieged or not beſieged; all ancient houſes,
gardens, orchards, paﬅures, ﬁelds, with the nature
and quality thereof. The lord of the fourth houſe
ſigniﬁes the governor of a town, the cuſp of the
houſe, the town, or caﬅle. It is feminine, and of
colours ſigniﬁes red, becauſe 95 and 0, are con-,
ſigniﬁcators thereof. It is thejoy of O .
THE FIFTH House ſigniﬁes children, all
younger kindred, joy, pleaſure, gifts, delights, and
bravery ; the riches of the father; all proﬁt of the
fourth houſe; playing, gaming, drinking, and re
velling, &c. and is a ſuccedent houſe. It alſo ſig
niﬁes the condition of women with child, and the
C ſex
18 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
ſex. It denotes meſſengers or agents for repub
lics, ambaſſadors, the ammunition or proviſion of a
town beſieged. It isamaſculine houſe, 2 and 51
conſigniﬁcators; and of colours it repreſentshlack
and white, or honey colour. lt is thejoy of L .
THE SlXTH House ſigniﬁes ſervants, ſickneſs,
allcattle that are unﬁt for labour, as ſheep, dogs,
hogs, fowls, and wild beaﬅs ; alſo hunters, gaolers,
priſons, falſe accuſations, &e. It is a cadcnt houſe;
it likewiſe ſigniﬁes uncles and aunts, or the fathers,
brothers, and ſiﬅers; farmers, tenants, warreners,
ﬂicpherds, and hogherds; all ſuch as appertain to
eattle, or deal in birds. It is a feminine houſe, and
of colours ſigniﬁes black; the cenﬁgniﬁcators
are d and "I, and it is thejoy of a .
THE Seven-m HOUSE ſigniﬁesmarriage, wives,
'law ſuits, contention, controvarſies, and quarrels,
common perſons, apd all the men we deal with, &e.
This is called theM'ang/e. In law ſuits it ﬁg
-niﬁes the defendant; in war the enemy, or perſon:
that make oppoſition; alſo thieves and thefts ; in a
ﬁgure of decumbiture the doctor ; in aﬅrology the
artiﬅ; in the ſcheme of the O's ingreſs into er it
ſigniﬁes the public enemies of the place, and ſheWS
whether there may ſucceed peace or war. It is a
maſculine houſe, and of colours ſigniﬁes a dark ſad
colour, or black. Its conﬁgnificators are A and
the D '
THE
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 19
THE EIGHTH HOUSE ſigniﬁes death, ſadneſs,
riches not thought oſ, as legacies, dowries, the,
eﬅate of thoſe we deal publicly with; all known
or public enemies, and all the beneﬁt of the ſeventh
houſe, and is a ſuccedent houſe. In law ſuits it
ſigniﬁes the defendant's eﬅate, as alſo his aﬃﬅants ;
in duels, the adverſary's ſecond. It is a feminine.
houſe, and of colours ſigniﬁes green and black.
Its conſigniﬁcators are me and T; .
THE NINTH HOUSE ſigniﬁes religion, pilgrim
age, dreams, long journies or voyages, ceremo
nies, ſacriﬁces, ſaith, clergymen, navigations, arts
and ſciences, the law, the kindred of the wife, &e.
It is termed a cadent or falling houſe ; it alſo ſig
niﬁes learning in general, and all church livings;
It is a maſculine houſe, and of colours repreſents
green and white. lts conﬁgniﬁcators are 4: and It,
and it is the joy of o . -
THETENTH House ſigniﬁes honour, dignities,
preferment, oﬃces, trade or calling, magiﬅrates,
kings, princes, governors, renown, advancement,
captains and conductors in war, all aid, help, or
ſuccour, the mother, and all the beneﬁt oſ the
ninth houſe; the Father oſ the wiſe or huſband,
as being the fourth from the ſeventh. It is*the
ſouth angle, or mid-heaven, uſually called Medium
Cwli. 'It denotes all perſons in power, alſo la'wz
yers, but more particularly kingdoms and couſin-l
tries, whether dukedoms or empires. It is femþ
C* 2 ' nine
nd lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS .
5)V
nine, and of colours ſigniﬁes red and white.
conſigniﬁcators are kf' and a .
THE ELEVENTH HOUSE ſigniﬁes friends and
acquaintance, hope, the things we deſire, com
panions, the counſel of friends, their ſalſeneſs or
ﬁdelity, all the proﬁt of the tenth houſe, &e. It is
a ſuccedent houſe. It alſo ſigniﬁes praiſe or diſ
praiſe of any perſon; as to kings, it ſigniﬁes their
aſſociates,counſellors, allies,treaſures, ammunition,
ſoldiery,&c. It repreſents aſiiﬁance to any per
ſon in power. It is a maſculine houſe, and of co
lours ſigniﬁes yellow. Its conſigniﬁcators are a:
and O, and it is the joy of 11..
THE TWELFTH House ſigniﬁes ſecret or pri
vate enemies, priſons, captivity, bondage, evil ſpi
rits, torments, treaſons, ſlavery, villainy, all great
cattle ﬁt for labour, as oxen, horſes, &c. It isa
cadent falling houſe. It ſigniﬁes ſorrow and tri
bulation of all ſorts. It is a 'feminine houſe, and of
colours ſigniﬁes green. Its conſigniﬁcators are x
and 2 , and it is thejoy of T;- .
Its
-_--'.--_
Tbe Signiﬁcatian: of t/a'e TWELVE SIGNS,
ARIES er. -
ARIES is an equinoctial ſign, cardinal, eaﬅerly,
and diurnal; ofthe ﬁery triplicity; hot and dry, by
nature choleric; maſculine, intemperate, and vio
lent ; the day houſe of a .
Descan-rroN
[NTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 2:
DESCRlPTION of PERSONS.-*lt deſcribes a
perſon ofa middle ﬅature, lean and ſþare, big bones,
black eye brows, thick ſhoulders, well ſet, a brown
or ſwarthy complexion, long viſage, hair curling,
yellowiſh or ſandy, hazle eyes, little ears and feet:
the ﬁrﬅ half of the ſign gives a groſſer body than
the latter half. _
PLACES. Obſcure and not much frequented;
tops or coverings of houſes, where ſmall cattle feed;
parts where thieves ſkulk and hide, hrick kilns, &c.
DISEASES. Heats in the. face, pimples, ſmall
pox, hair lips, all diſeaſes of the head, head-ach,
tooth-ach, baldneſs, ring-worms, megrirns, apo
plexes, &c.
Aries gives a White and red mixed colour.
TAURUS 3.
'Taurus is ſoutherly, earthy, cold and dry; a
ﬁxed nocturnal' ſign; feminine, melancholy, do
meﬅic; of the earthy triplicity; the night houſe
of 2 .
PERSONS. It pe-rſo-nates one ofa ſhort and
thick ﬅature, a ﬅrong body, a broad face and fore
head, wide noſe, great mouth, a fat ſhort neck,
ſhort arms, thick hand-s, thick black hair, curling,
big hips, ſhort legs, (low to anger: but if once en.
raged, not eaſily reconciled again. _
PLACES. Cellars and out-houſes, as ſisbles and
cow-houſes, 'lower rooms, paﬅures, and plain
grounds, corn ﬁelds, and all ſuch places remote
' from
I' INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS
from houſes; where furniture appertaining to 'cat
tle and horſes are kept or laid up.
DISEASES. All inﬁrmities of the neck and
throat, wens, king's evil, ſore throat, quinſies,
ulcers; alſo all-deﬂuctions of rheum in the neck
or throat, and all diſeaſes in that part of the body.
Taurus gives a white and citron mixed colour.
GEMlNI n.
GEMINI is by nature hot and moiﬅ, aerial, ſan
guine, diurnal, double bodied-maſculine; of the
airy triplicity; the day houſe of I , and is a weſ
terly ſign.
PſſERSONs. It gives a perſon of an upright, ﬅrait,
and tall body, well ſet, a good colour, though
not very clear, bright eyes and good ſight, long
arms, ﬁeſhy hands and feet, large breaﬅ, ſad brown
hair, an acute wit, and ingenious fancy; a ﬂuent
tongue, and apt at diſcourſe, yet of no great ﬁde
lity, but generally a ﬅrong active body.
PLAcns. It ſigniﬁes all rooms that are hung
or wainſcotted, dining rooms, halls, play houſes,
mountains, hilly places, barns, ſtore-houſes,
(heﬅs and trunks, &e.
DlSEASES. All 'that are incident to the arms
'and ſhoulders, corruption, and windineſs in the
blood; all-diſeaſes of a hot and moiﬅ nature, and
ſometimes a diſtempered fancy, &e.
Gemini gives a White and red mixed colour.
CANCER
anraonſiucronv OBSERVATIONS. 23
CANCER 5.
CANCER is cold and moiﬅ, ﬂegmatic, ſruitſul ;
oſ the watry triplicity, ſolﬅitial-mute; the houſe
oſ the I) : it is a northerly ſign.
PERSONS. "Under this ſign are born perſons of
ſhort ﬅature; but the latter 15o give a more full
body than the ﬁrﬅ 150, little eyes, a pale and wan
complexion, oftentimes bad teeth, a ſad brown or
blackiſh hair, a low whining Voice; iſ a woman,
ſhe will be ſubject to have many children; but iſa
man, generally ofa very eﬀeminate conﬅitution.
i PLACES. Are uſually moiﬅ and watry as
the ſea and all great navigable rivers, brooks,
ſprings, ponds, lakes, wells, ciſierns, waſh-houſes,
collars, &c. *
DlSEASES. lmperfections in the head and ſto
mach, weak digeﬅion, pht-hiſic, ſalt phlegm, and
rotten coughs,cancers in the breaﬅ, and all impoﬅ
humes in the ﬅomach. . /
Cancer gives a green and ruſſet colour.
LEO 51.
- LEO. This is in order the ﬁfth ſign, and the
only houſe oſthe ſun; is the ſecond in the ﬁery
triplicity, and a commanding eaﬅern ſign.
PER'SONS. Under this conﬅellation are born
perſons generally oſ a full large body, courageous
and ſtout-hearted; a body ſomething above the
middle ſize, a great head, with large goggle eyes,
' ' broad
24. INTRODUCTCRY OBSERVATlONS.
broad ſhoulders, dark flaxen and curling hair; the
latter degrees give lighter hair than the ﬁrſt; a
big voice, a reſolute ſpirit, and an aſpiring diſpo
ſition; ſree-hearted, courteous, ſanguine com
plexion, and an active body.
PLACES. All de-ſart places, as woods, foreſis,
tocks both ﬅeep and craggy, caﬅles, ſorts, parks,
and all inacceſſible places; alſo king's palaces, and
houſes where ﬁre is or has been kept; chimnies,
ﬁoves, ſurnaces, ovens, &e.
DISEASES. Inﬁrmities oſ the back, pains in
the ſide, pleuriſies, convulſions, and all diſeaſes of
the heart; violent fevers, the plague, peﬅilence,
yellow jaundice, and ſore eyes.
Leo gives a red and green colour.
Vrneo ma.
Vikco is an earthy, cold, barren, melancholy,
feminine, nocturnal, ſouthern ſign; the houſe and
exaltation oſ y .
PERSON5. It perſonates a decent well-com
poſed body, oſa middle ﬅature, ſlender, a deſcreet
witty ingenious perſon, but not very beautiful; a
ſad brown, or black thick hair; the viſage ſome
thing round, the voiceſmall and ſhrill, oſnature
witty, and excellently well ſpoken; ﬅudious, and
very inclinable to all manner of learning.
PLACES. It ſigniﬁes ſiudies, and where books
are laid up; eloſets where maps and writings are
kept; it denotes corn ﬁelds, ſhore-houſes, dairy
houſes,
XNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. a;
houſes, malt-houſes, and places where hay, barley,
peaſe, and wheat ricks are made, &t.
DIsE-ASES. All inﬁrmities of the belly, wind
cholic, worms, obﬅructions of the bowels, gravel,
ﬅone, &c.
Virgo,gives a black, ſpeckled, and mixed colour."
LIBRA A
LIBRA is a ſign hot and moiﬅ, of the airy tri
plicity; ſanguine, maſculine, moveable, cardinal,
equinoctial; a weﬅern ſign; the day houſe of 2 .
PERSON. It repreſents a perſon of a moﬅ de
licate comely ﬅrait body, of a round and beauti
ful viſage, and well favoured; the hair for the moﬅ
part tending to ﬂaxen, but ſometimes yellowiſh,
not curling, but long and ſmooth; grey eyes,
rather ſlender than groſs, and in age, ſubject to
pimples and ſpots in the face, with high colour; an
indiﬀerent tall ſtature, a courteous perſon, juﬅ and
upright in all actions. ſi
PLACES. In houſes it denotes all upper rooms,
as chambers and garrets, balconies and turrets;
in the ﬁelds it denotes grounds near wind-mills, all
out-houſes, barns, and places where wood is cut 3
ſaw-pits; all pſſlaces where hawking and hunting is
uſed, and gravelly places.
DISEAsEs. All inﬁrmities of the reins, kidneys,
and bladder, as ﬅone and gravel, heats and impoﬅ
D humes,
16 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS;
humes, or ulcers in the reins and loins, weakneſs
in the back, and corruption of blood.
Libra gives a black or dark tawny colour.
SCORPIO m.
' SCORPIO is a conſtellation ﬁxed; nocturnal, Cold
and phlegmatic ; feminine, and a northern ſign; of
the watry triplicity; the houſe and joy of a .
PERSON. It perſonates a ﬅrong able corpulent
body, but of a mean ſtature, yet big limbed, ſtrong
and active; ſad brown hair, criſping or ourling, a
dark ſallow complexion, an hairy body, ſhort
neck, broad faced, and oftentimes bow-Iegged;
wilful, malicious, falſe and deceitſul; quick in
bodily motion, and a perſon of reſerved thoughts.
PLACES. It ſigniﬁes all muddy, mooriſh grounds,
ſtinking lakes, ditches, and quagmires, gardens,
vineyards, and orchards; all ſinks in houſes, waſh
houſes, ruinous houſes, near iwaters, where vene
mous creatures frequent, jakes, and where rubbth
is laid. '
DISEASES. Are the gonorrhaea, or running of
the reins, ruptures,'and ﬁſtulas; inﬁrmities in the
bladder, 'grave'l and ſtone, defects in th'e matrix,
piles and ulcers, and all diſeaſes belonging to the
privities. '
Scorpio gives a browu colour.
SAGITAR lU_S
IN'TR'ODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. gf
SAGITARIUS t.
SAGITARIUS isbicorporal, or double bodied;
ﬁery, maſculine, choleric, and diurnal; by nature
hot and dry, and oſ the ﬁery triplicity; the houſe
andjoy of 74. i \ * '
Pansou. It endues the native with a ﬅrait,
well-proportioned body, ſomewhat tall, of a loving
chearſul countenance, high colour, oval viſage, a
ruddy ſanguine complexion, and brown hair, ſubject
to baldneſs, a ﬅrong able body, generally: good
horſemen, great ſhooters, and ﬅout-hearted.
PLACES. Stables, or places where all ſorts of
horſes are kept, and other great cattle : it denotes
high places, hills, and the upper rooms in houſes,
-where ﬁre is, and hath been frequently kept.
DISEASES. Inﬁrmities belonging to the thighs i
and hips, ruptures and ﬁﬅulas, falls from horſes,
over-heating of the blood, fevers, hurts by ﬁre,
and all inte'mpe'rance in ſports, paﬅimes, and re
creations. i
Sagitarius gives a' yellow or green colour.
CAPRICORN U'
CAP RICORN is by nature cold and dry; noctur- i
nal, melancholy, earthy, feminine, ſolﬅitial,
moveable, cardinal, and a ſouthern ſign ; 'the houſe
of I; , and exaltation of 3 . .
PERSONS born under this ſign are uſually very
ſlender weakly men, oſa mean ﬅature and dry'
conﬅitution; the face lean and thin, blackiſh hair,
D 2 r and,
A muonucron' onseavmtons.
and thin beard, long necked, and narrow chin ;>
diſproportioued body, choleric, ſad, but witty
and ſubtle. .
PLACLS. Wherein eattle are put; as cow-5
houſes, ſheep-pens, wood-houſes; tools, or imple-_
ments of huſbandry; barren and ſallow ﬁelds,
dung-hills, lower rooms, and obſcure dark place'
near the earth, as caves, dungeons, and priſons.
DrstAszs.--Such as are incident to the knees,
leproſy, itch, and ſcabs; ﬂraius, fractures, and,
diﬂocations, &e. ſſ -
Capricorn gives a blank, and ruſſet colour, orſſ
ſwarthy brown. -
A o_v A R 1 u s ,-;.-.
quouuus is by nature hot and moiﬅ; maſcu
line, ſanguine; diurnal, ﬁxed, rational, humane;
of the airy triplicity 5 the day houſe of I; .
PBRSON. In denotes a perſon of' a well ſet and
ﬁrong ab'le body, not very tall, yet well come
poſed; a clear ſkin, ſſa ſanguine complexion, a
bright hair, and often'fimes a dark ﬂaxen; in ſhort,
it gives a well ſhaped comely body, a ﬂeſhy face,
inclining to an oval, and ſometimes a pale coun
tenance;
Pnacns. Stone quarries and mines, hilly
grounds, and places lately dug up; the upper part _
of houſes, as roofs, eaves, or windows ; vineyards,
conduits, or ſpring heads.
Drszasrs. ſi
parauntre-row OBSERVATIONS. .,
D-ISEAslzs. Such as aﬄict the legs and ancles;
cramps, gouts, and wind in the veins, diſorderiug
thoſe parts. - -
AquariUS gives a ſky or blue colour.
Prsc'Es x.
PISCBS is by nature cold and moiﬅ, phlegmatic;
a nocturnal, bicorporal northern ſign, of the
watry triplicity, and termed an idle ſickly ſign 3
the houſe of 11., and exaltation of 2 . 7
PERSON. It gives a per-ſon that is but ſhort,
with a good yet not handſome face, a clear corn
plexion, thick ſhoulders, brown hair, a ﬂeihy
body, though ſometimes crooked.
PLACES. All ﬁſh ponds, ſprings, moats, and
water mills; places where caves and hermitages
have been; wells, ciﬅerns, pumps, and places ap
pointed to keep water in, &o.
DIsEAses. All that are incident to the feet, as
the gout and lameneſs.; aches, boils, and ulcers;
chilblains, ſalt phlegm, cold and moiﬅ diſeaſes, and
alſo all diſea'ſes that proceed from putriﬁed blood.
Piſces- gives a bright white glittering colour.
It is to be obſerved, that the foregoing deſcription,"
are general; but ifmany planets happen to be placed
in the aſcendant, where any of theſe ſigns ariſe in
any perſon's nativity, their ſigniﬁcations muﬅ be
mixed according to their various ſhapes, at the
diſcretion of the judicious ﬅudent.
Therefore
3.- INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS
' Therefore conſider the ſign aſcending in a nati'
'rity\ or queﬅion, the lord thereof, and planet po
ſited in the aſcendant; the ﬁxed ﬅars are to be alſo
conſidered, as aiſo the O and ) ; ſee what ſigns
they are in, and how they behold the aſcendant,
and bya due conſideration and mixture of their
ſigniﬁcations, you cannot fail of giving an exact
and compleat deſcription in any ﬁgure. This the
artiﬅ ſhould_endeavour to be expert in.
w
The Joy: qf the Planets in the Signs, arc iluſſ',
joyeth in
emwOosq-lc'
l
aeaemzsn
(I Table of [be Plancts Orbs.-Planets mean Aſotian,
d. m, d.m.s.
ſ'b IOO 5 ſſib 02 I,
v, 1l a,12 O 74 O,459*
. . a (53 730 TALE 3 03127
o 217 o a< O 059 8
25 80 E>9 0598
t 7M Ya Þ on 8
__))7 12 30 m LD 13 1036
An
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. If
An aſpect 'oſ a planet is either platick, or par
tile. A partile aſpect is, when two planets behold
each other in the ſame degree and minute; but av
platick aſpect is, when' two planets behold each
other within the half of their orbs .
For inﬅance, iſ the O be in Ioo 20' of er', and
11. in 15o 15' of n, they are ſaid to be in platick
ale; and if they are 14® diﬅance from a partile
aſpect, they are ﬅill within Y of their orbs; for if.
the orb of the O is 80 30'; and 5 the orb of 1; 60,
which is 14.o 30'.
O
A Table of the lezets Laiitudes.
NORTH LAT. SOUTH LAT
d. m. s. d. m. s.
ding ſb is 2 48 0 is 2 49 O
3 o 74 -- I 38 0 -' I 40 o
Y-Y< a -- 4 31 o -' 6 47 o
292- - 2 -- 9 2 0 '*- 9 2 0
a F- l s! *- 3 33 O * 3 35 o
F'ﬀ'l LD --* 5 17 . o -- *5 12 o
Note. The o moves always in the ecliptic, and
bath no latitude.
The
32 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
75: Natures, Deſcriptionr, and Signiﬁcationr qf the
SEVEN PLANETS.
S A T U R N I; . _
Anciently Cbronas, Pba'non, Falriﬁcr.
SATURN is by nature cold and dry, author of
ſ _melancholy; maſculine, diurnal; the greater in
ﬂluifortune, and ſlow in motion, and is 297" 167d 4.II
36', in ﬁniſhing his courſe.
PERSON. He denotes a perſon of a middle ﬅa
ture, ofa black or ſwarthy complexion, ſometiniea ,
pale and mu'ddy; little eyes, thin beard, thick
ſhoulders, and ſometimes crooked; a lean face,
thick lips, black or ſad brown hair, a ſhuﬃing gait,
and delights to be alone.
QyALrTIss and PROFESSIONS. Old men, grand
ſathers, and fathers; beggars, huſbandmen, day
labourers, monks, jeſuits, ſextons of churches,
&e. Curriers, dreſſers of leather, diggers of earth,
bricklayers, tinners, plumbers, malﬅers, colliers,
ulyers of black cloth, all dealers in black cloth, or
ſad commodities, as blackſmiths, &c.
Ju'ﬂ Disposrrton. The diſpoſition is wilful, cove
tous, malicious, aiming altogether at his own ends,
when ill digniﬁed; but if well digniﬁed, he
perſonates men of grave and ſober ſpirits, ſound
judgments, ſharp fa'ncies, good ﬅudents, and men
that heap together the goods of this life.
ANIMALS. The aſs, hare, mouſe, mole, crow,
cuckow, ſcreech owl, fox, and black ﬂies.
* JUPITER'
(NTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS. 33
J U P 1 'r 1-: R It.
Anciently Phaetan, Zeus.
JUPITER is a planet maſculine and diurnal, and
by nature temperately hot and. moiﬅ; the greater
fortune, author of moderation, temperance, juﬅice
and ſobriety: he ﬁniſheth his courſe in 11"I 3154
xzh 20'. i
PERSONS. He denotes one oſan upright and ſirait
ﬅature; of a brown ruddy complexion, an oval
viſage, hair between red and dark ſandy brown,
much beard, large belly, great thighs, great well
proportioned legs, long feet; and if well digniﬁed,
a ſober, well ſpoken, and good-conditioned perſon,
abhorring covetouſneſs, and cares not for worldly
Wealth.
QUALXTIES and PROFEserNs. Judges, lawyert,
young ſcholars, all ſorts of clergymen, cloathiers,
woollen-drapers, &c.
Dtspost'rtonr. If Jupiter be well diſpoſed, he
incites men to honeﬅ principles, to good duties,
pious, magnanimous, modeﬅ, wiſe, diligent, and
liberal; but if ill pleaſed, they are prodigal, ſiout
perſons, unfaithful, weak in judgment, and care
leſ: of themſelves and relations.
Jupiter generally denotes youth.
ANlMAI-S. Sheep, .crane, and lark.
E MARS
34 imnonUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
M A R s 8 .
Anciently Ares, Pyrois, Ma'vors, Gradivur.
. MARS is a maſculine nocturnal planet, by na
ture hot and dry; the leſſer in fortune; the author
of ﬅrife, debate, quarrels and contentions: he is
about 1yr 32 Id 2311 in completing his courſe in the
Zodiac.
PERSON. Mars deſcribesl a perſon of a middle
ﬅature, ﬅrong and Well ſet, a ruddy complexion,
his hair red or ſandy flaxen, criſping or curling;
q'uick, ſharp, and piercing hazel eyes; a furious
aſpect, proud and pr'eſumptuous, valiant, full of
words, boaﬅing and lying; in ﬁne, a very ﬅrong
body and active, rather big-boned than ſat.
(LJALtTms and PROFESSIONS. Soldiers, or
ſuch as uſe weapons or edge tools ; alſo apotheca
ries, watch-makers, barbers.' dyers, tanners, ſur-i
geons, butchers, gunners, ſmiths, marſhals, bai
liﬀs, &e. inclining rather to cholert than mirth or
melancholy. '
Mars in queﬅions is ageneral ſigniﬁcator of cho- i.
leric ruﬅics; he alſo ſigniﬁes war, ﬅrife, and de
bate, and all manner of cruelty. \ '
DISPOSITION, Being Well placed, he makes
valiant men, generous, haﬅy, careleſs of riches,
and much addicted to warlike actions; but if ill _
placed, he incites men to tyrannical actions, to
thievng and murder, and all kind of ſedition.
ANIMALI
m'raonucrou OBSERVATIONS. 35
ANIMALS. Tyger, panther, dog, wolf, kite, .
moths, cat, and all monﬅrous productions.
Son. o theSUu.
Anciently Titan, Ilias, -Pbae_bus, Apollo, Pa'on,
Ojj/ris, Dig/þitcr.
The SUN is the moﬅ glorious of all the planets;
he is maſculine, diurnal, and by nature hot and dry
(as every man may eaſily experience) ; he ﬁniſheth
his courſe in one year; for by the O's motion, all
time is meaſured out in days, months, years, &c.
PERSON. The o repreſents a perſon of 4
goodly fair ﬅature; the body and face both full
and ﬂeſhy, of a ſaﬀron ruddy complexion; the
hair yellow and ſomewhat thin, a full goggle and
hazel eye, ſharp and piercing, quick-lighted, much
beard, and'ſoon bald: in ﬁne, a generous and
high-minded creature, aiming at no baſe or mean
things.
QLJALITlES and PRoreserNs. The Sun prc.
dominates over chief rulers, governors, come
manders, whither emperors, kings, or" princes;
men in power, bearing rule, &c. It ſigniﬁes alſo
goldſmiths, copperſmiths, minters, and coiuers of
money; all pewterers, braziers, &c.
DISPOSITiON. The ſolar perſon is magnum;
mous, -valiant, proyident, long-lived, wiſe and fa
mous, and deſirous of honour. 0 is a general
ſigniﬁcator of men in love queﬅions ; he alſo ſig
E a A niﬁes
- 36 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVLTTONS.
niﬂes honour, greatneſs, noble perſon; of all'de
grees, &c. v
ANIMALS. The lion, horſe, eagle, cock,
&c
V z N U s 2 .
Anciently Cytherea, Apbradite, Erycina.
erus is a feminine noctumal planet, and by
nature bcold and moiﬅ; the leſſer fortune, and
ﬁniſhes her courſe in 224 days 17 hours. She i;
the author of pleaſure, mirth, and jollity.
PERSON. Venus repreſents a perſon of a ſhort .
ﬅature, or rather about a middle ﬁze, pretty well
ſet, plump and ſat, of a whitiſh complexion, and
ſometimes a little bluiſh colour; around face, lighi
brown hair and ſmcoth, an eye much rolling, with
a &hearful look.
QUAuTms and Pxorzssxous. Thoſe that de
light to go ſpruce and near, and to frequent merry
meetings; aﬀable courteous perſons, and de.
lighters in curioſities; all men and women that deal
in various ſorts of apparel or liuen, and things de
lightful to wear; lapidaries, ſilk-men, mercers,
linen-drapers, upholders, painten, draftſmen, per:
ſumers, ac; i
DISPOSITION. Venus,well placed, makes men
pleaſant, fair ſpoken, given to pleaſure, ſoclable,
merciful, &c. but if ill aﬀected. inclines men
no be eﬀeminate, timorous, Luﬅful, followers of
H'ﬂldacþ,
m'rkoouc'rorw OBSERVATIONS. 37
lWenehes, very ſluggiſh, and addicted to idleneſs,
and an ill habit of body.
Venus generally denote: Women in queſtions,
youth, pleaſures, paﬅimes, and allkind of delights,
mirth, ſweet odours, &c.
ANIM'ALS. Pigeons, turtle doves, hogs, par
tridges, ſparrowsct, jackdaws, ſea ﬁſh, &c.
MERCURY y.
Anciently Hermes, Stilban, Cyileni'u, Arches. ,
MERCURY is ſaid to be a planet convertahle or
changeable in his nature, and participates of the
nature of the planet he is joined with, and there
fore cannot be ſaid to be either maſculiue or ſemi
nine; he is by nature cold and dry, and ﬁniſhes
his courſe in 87 days, 23 hours, and is the author
of all ſubtile tricks, theſts, perjuries, &c.
PERSON. Mercury perſonates one oſa tall and
ſpare body, a long face and noſe, of a yellowiſh
whitely Complexion, lit-tle beard, but much hair on
his head, inclining to blackneſs; and this planet,
above all others, much alters, according to the pla
net he is joined with, as mentioned-above.
Qynurms and PROPESSIONS. He ſigniﬁes all
men of learning, as clerks, merchants, ſcholars, ſe
cretaries, &e. and ſometimes ambaſſadors, commiſ
ſioners, and poets; orators, printers, ﬁntioners,
and uſurers; and ifill digniﬁed, all ſuch as live by
their wits; and he is much conformable to the com
pany he keeps, be it mirth' or ſorrow. '
DISPOSITION.
3' IN T R ODUCTORY OBSERVATXONK
DISP os I T I ON' If he be Well P0ſited, heglves
'a ſharp writ, make? melﬅudious and capable of
any learning ; your lſm Plafedz inclines a Perſon to
ſubtiltYa craſrmeſ5> mthcnouſheſs, and all lying
fraudulent acStions; he ls alſo the pan-on of philo
ſophers and mathemancmns,
U In qqeﬅioni I generally ſigniﬁes youth.
ANXMALS' APCS, mghtmgak, Parrot, gOldﬁnch,
ſwallow' but' balade' kingﬁſher, bees, ants or
Tullius' graſShoPPers' criCkﬂsz ſhakes, &e.
L U N A, D, 'be Moon,
Andently Lucina, Cyntbia, Diana, Pbeﬁe,
Prſſrpina, Noctiluca, Lamzſh
This planet. is .feminine and noctumal; by
nature cold and mOlﬅ' ﬁniſhing her courſe in her '
orbit 'm 27d 7h 18'430' Sheis a general ſignL
ﬁcator in all queﬅions.
PERSON- She Peſſonﬂles one of a large and
fair ﬅature, brOWn hall', Of a whitiſh pallid com
plexion, a full and ﬂeſhy bOdY> lOWcring look,
and many times ſome blemiſh, or defect in or
ſſnear the eyes, ſhort armsz ﬂeſhy hands, ﬂow of
ſpeech, fat and Phlegmatic; a mutable peeviſh
creature, ſeldom contented, and delights not much
either 'm idleneſs or action
QgAmUm and PROFESSIONS. The p. ﬁg
niﬂeth the higheﬅ ſort of women, whether queen,
governgſs, or miﬅreſs of the houſe; alſo men
whoſſig qnployments 'lie upon the waters; all
\ cle-"ders
INTRODUCTORY onsrnvarions; 3,
dealers in ﬁſh, vintners, tapﬅers, midwives, nor
ſes, and the common people in general; to which
we may add, travellers, fugitives, and ﬅrays
among cattle.
DISPOSITION. She deſcribes an unconﬅant
and wavering diſpoſition. A
The Moon is deemed a general ſigniﬁcator of
all ſick people. , ct
ANlMALS. Rabbits, cuckows, geeſe, ducks,
night owls, monﬅers of the nature of the dog,
muſcles, oyﬅers, ſnails, frogs, toads, ſea-ſpidcr,
craw-ﬁſh, ﬁſh in general, pikes, trouts, &e.
ſ
BRIEF OBSERVATXONS in forming 'JUDGMENT
from 'be PLANET 'bar is Loap oft/Je ASCEN
DANTQ '
"1. If no planet aſpect the lord of the aſcendant,
thenjudge by him, not conſidering the ſign he is in.
2. But if he be retrograde, or in his fall or detri
ment,judge by the ſign he is in. .
3. If the lord of the aſcendant behold the aſ
cendant, judge by the ſign aſcending. i I
4. -Laﬅly. If two planets aſpect the aſcendant,
take him that ſſbeholds it moﬅ partile, or he that
is in his own houſe, before a planet in his exaltation.
Note. Theſe things are to be conſidered as well in
the conditions and qualities of a perſon, as in the
deſcription and make of the body.
Deﬅrijztiom
40 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
Deﬁriptia'u and Dﬁaſitiam which the Planets give,
being Signiﬁcatars, andpaſited in any of 'be 'ſave/m'
Signs.
SATURN in the TWELVE Schs.
15 in er
Gives a ruddy complexion, a ſpare raw-boned
PerſOn, full faced, loud voice, dark hair, not much
heard, addicted to boaﬅing, quarrelſome without
Cauſe, and ill-natured.
' 72 in 8
i Gives no comely perſon, but heavy and lumpiſh,
dark hair, a mean ﬅature, not well made, rough in
carriage, vicious, ſord'id, &c.
_ I; in n
Gives a perſon of rather a tall ﬁature, dark
complexion, oval viſage, hair dark brown or black,
ingenious, but generally unfortunate, unpoliſhed,
and perverſe.
' ſi ' U in 25
Gives a perſon ﬁatly, crazy, of a middling ﬂa
ture, dark hair, meagre face, ſometimes crooked,
jealous, malicious, and in his inclinations addicted
to vicious purſuits. ct
72 in 81,
' Gives a perſon of moderate large ﬅature, broadv
ſhoulders, _lightiſh hair, ſurly aſpect, big boned,
eyes ſuuk,'ſiapt_ to ﬂoop, qualities tolerably good,
' ' 'ſſ' " generous
IN'TRODUCTORY OBSERVAT10NS. 4tt
generous but paﬃonate, though not over valiant or
courageous.
'Fz in mz .
Repreſenſits a perſon of a tall ſpare body, ſwarthy,
dark or black hair, and much of it, a long head,
ſolid or grave countenance, generally unfortunate,
inclined to melancholy, retaining anger, a projector
to little purpoſe, ſtudious, ſubtle, reſcrved, inclined
to pilfering, and indirect dealings.
T; in _
Deſcribes a perſon above the middle ﬁze, comely,
brown hair, oval face, large noſe 'and forehead,
clear complexion, opinionated of himſelf', prodigal
oſeXpence, ſeldom leave any wealth at their death,
and ſubject to debate and controverſy.
II
Tz in m
Repreſents a perſon oſ a mean ﬅature, ſquat,
thick,truſſed body, broad ſhoulders, black or dark
hair, uſually ſhort and thick, quarrelſome, miſ
chievous, and'will undertake violent and dangerous
actions, though to his own detriment.
ct b in r
Gives a large body, brown hair, decent make,
tolerable complexion, obliging diſpoſition, not
covetous, moderately frugal, not proſuſe, and cho
leric; will not bear an aﬀront, yet willing to do
good-,'a lover of his friend, and merciful to an
enemy. " X
F bin
42 mmonueronv OBSERVATIONS.
72 in U'
Pe'rſonates a lean, raw-boned perſon, dark or
black hair, rough ſkin, middle ﬁze, dark com
plexion, little eyes, long viſage, and an ill gait; diſ
hontented, melancholy, peeviſh, covetous, oſ ſew
words, ſearſul, retains anger, and oſ great gravity.
I; in t:
Gives a reaſonable full-bodied perſon, a large
head and face, rather inclined to corpulency, mid
dle ﬅature, ſad brown hair, a clear complexion, a
graceſul deportment, aﬀable, courteous, of an
excellent prying fancy, and generally a proﬁcient
in what he undertakes in ſciences and arts, but
ſubject to be conceited, yet a perſon of a pregnant
genius.
r T; in X
Deſcribes a middled-ſized perſon, pale complex
ion, ſad or dark black hair, a large head and full
eye, ſometimes the teeth diﬅorted, not very comely,
Yet active; inclined to diﬃmulation, contention,
and malicious; prone to many ill actions, not lo
quacious,but deliberate : on the whole an uncertain
ﬁckle perſon-in his-actions, preſents a good outſide
appearance, but fraudulent and deceitſul in the end.
JUPITER in the Twelve SIGNS.
'H- in 'r
Repteſents a middle ﬅature, ruddy complexion,
ﬂaxen hair, a piercing eye, ar high noſe, pimples in
the
lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATlONS. 43
the face, oval viſage, lean body, free diſpoſition,
credible, and a very ohliging perſon.
u in 3
Deſcribes a mean perſon, but well ſet, ſwarthy,
brown curling hair, a compact body, though not
handſome; diſpoſition good, judgment ſound, of
good deportment, a lover of the female ſex, good
natured, and free to ſuch objects as deſerve com-x
paſſion.
u in n
Denotes a curious, decent, well-compoſed plump
body, a ſanguine complexion, above the middle ﬅa
ture, brown hair, a full eye, graceful deportment,
aﬀable, courteous, gentle, mild, obliging, an ad
mirer of the female ſex, and a lover of learning; but
ifu be near violent ﬅars,it renders the perſon raſh,
unﬅable, inimical to himſelf, and unacceptable to
others.
It in 25 r
Gives a perſon of.a middle ﬅature, a pale un?
wholeſome complexion, dark brown hair, oval face',
the body diſproportioned, a buſy loquacious perſon,
apt to intermeddle with others aﬀairs, 'conceited
and lofty, a great ſavourer oſ women, fortunate by
Water, and delights to be thereon, but of an ordi
nary courage, unleſs his ſigniﬁcator'b'e well beheld
by a' . '
u in St
Repreſents a ﬅrong well-proportioned body, tall,
a light brown'or yellowiſh hair curſing, a ruddy
F '2 compleſſxiOn,
44. 'NTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXOSS.
complexion, a full eye, rather a comely perſon, no
ble minded, courageous, magnanimous, lofty, de
lighting in warlike actions, a terror to his enemies,
a perſon that ſcorns to truckle to them, and Con
lending for grandeur and honour.
1; in irjz
Denotes a perſon ofa reaſonably full ﬅature, ſad
brown or black hair, ruddy complexion, but not
clear; well-built, termed handſome, choleric, amu
bitious of honour, boaﬅing, ﬅudious, covetous,
and by raſhnefs, ſubject to loſſes, and not eaſily
wrought upon by any perſon. i
'it in A
Perſonates a compleat body, an inviting counte
nance, a clear complexion, a full eye, upright ﬂa
ture, rather tall, ſlender, Oval face, light brown
hair, ſubject to pimples in the face, a mild diſpoſi
tion, and winning behaviour; delights in noble ex
erciſes, and recrenrions, obliging to all perſons, and
'gaining honour and 'faﬅe-am.
11. in m
Givesa middle ﬅature, a compact body, dark
hair, a full ﬂeſhy face, a muddy dull complexion,
_lnut lofty, proud, and ambitious; one that deſires
and endeavours to bear rule over his equals, reſolute
and ill-natured, covetous, ſubtle, and to be warily
dealt with.
-- A ' u in 1
Gives a tall upright body, cheſnut hair, oval face,
ruddy complexion, much beard, a good eye, cour-l
ſi i' ' i i teous,
lNTRODUCTORlY OBSERVATXONS- 45
teous, fair conditioned, noble deportment, juﬅ, a
lover of horſes, accompliſhed, and deſerving reſpect.
. iſ. in kf'
Gives a mean ﬅature, pale complexion, thin
face, little head, little beard, weakly, ingenious,
dark hair, low-ſpirited, peeviſh, innctive, and um
fortunate; in ﬁne, a very helpleſs, indigent, harm
leſs perſon.
LL in a:
Perſonates a middle ſtature, brown hair, well
ſet, clear complexion, rather corpulent, compact,
chearful, hurtful to none, obliging, decent, and
moderate in recreations, juﬅ and merciful, good
humour-ed, induﬅrious, rather inclined to extrava
gance, communicative, &e.
IL in X
Denotes a mean-ﬂatured perſon, obſcure com
plexion, ﬂeſhy body, lightiſh brown hair, harmleſs,
ﬅudious, endowed with excellent parts and acquire
ments, fortunate upon water, delights in good com
pauy, if the D dart her quadrat or oppoſite aſpects.
11. uſually gives good teeth, and I? the con
trary; and ſometimes an apparent mark on the ſore
head: in an airy ſign, he gives broad fore teeth; in
a ﬁery, crooked; in an earthy, foul; hutin a watry
ſign, the teeth decay ſuddenly: and this more cer
tainly if '21. be in any bad aſpect.
It in a watry ſign: the perſon is fat and comely ;
in an airy, more ﬅrong and corpulent; in an ear
thy,
46 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
thy, a well 'compoſed body; in a ﬁery, more ſquare.
13, ﬁgniﬁcator, and in a watry ſign, gives ſome
impediment in ſpeech.
w
MARS in the TWELVE Srch.
8 in or
Repreſents a middle-ﬁzed perſon; ſwarthy, well
ſet, big-boned, light hair, ſometimes red and curl
ing; auﬅere countenance, bold, undaunted, conﬁ
dent, choleric, prone to rebellion, a lover of
war, and uſually gains preſerment.
3 in 25
Gives a middle ſtature, Well ſet, rather ſhort:
than tall, corpulent, no clear complexion, dark
or black hair, broad ſace, wide mouth, often a
gluttonous perſon, given to gaming, drinking,
wenching, &e. treacherous, ill-natured, unfortu
nate, &e.
a in II
Deſcribes a tall perſon, black or dark hair; a
body well proportioned, ingenious, but unſettled :
unfortunate in all his actions, lives in mean con
dition, ſhiſting here and there, and what is called
a ſwindler.
3 in 5
Denotes a ſhort perſon, oſ no good complexion,
brown hair and much, ſometimes crooked, and the
i condition,
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 47
condition, or temper, bad; a ſot, and unfortunate,
employed in mean buſineſs, and incapable of better.
a inv SL
- Gives a ﬅrong able-bodied perſon, ſun-burnt
complexion, tall, hair dark ﬂaxen, large limbs,
great eyes, choleric, delights in war, ſhooting,
riding, &e. but ſree-ſpirited to ſuch as notice him.
a in "it
Gives a middle ﬅature, well-proportioned body,
hair black, or dark brown, complexion ſwarthy,
ſometimes a blemiſh in the face; a haﬅy, revenge- X
ful perſon, retains an injury, diﬃcult to 'be pleaſed,
conceited,and generally unfortunate in moﬅ actions.
a in a.
Gives a decent well-proportioned body, rather
tall, light brown hair, oval face, ſanguine com
plexion, briſk chearful aſpect, a lover of the female
ſex, inclinable to boaﬅ, delights in noble recrea
tions, decent in apparel, and generally beloved of
women to his prejudice. '
a in m
Gives a well-'ſet middle-ſized perſon, black curi
ing hair, broad face, corpulent body, ſwarthy com
plexion, a very ill-humoured perſon, paﬃonate,
quarrelſome, unſociable, raſh, revengeful, ungrate
ful, but ofready apprehenſion, excellent in myﬅery, _
and active in inſpection.
, ſſ aſ in I
Denotes a tall perſon, with a well-proportioned
body, ſanguine complexion, brown hair, oval vi
ſage,
48 * lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
ſage, a quick eye, a choleric haﬅy diſpoſition,
yet a chearſul merry jovial companion, active,
courageous, and loquacious; delightsin being ap
plauded: in ﬁne, of no contemptible humour or
temper.
a in 15'
Gives a mean ﬅature, a lean body, an ill 'com
plexion, and black lank hair; a thin face, little
head, but an ingenious perſon; of a reaſonable
good diſpoſition, a penetrating fancy, and generally
fortunate and happy in moﬅ of his undertakings.
a in a."
Gives a well-compoſed body, reaſonable, corpu
lent, ſandy-coloured hair, moderate clear com
plexion, middle ﬅature, turbulent ſpirit, addicted
to controverſy, &e.
. a? in X
Gives a meun-ſizcd perſon, rather ſhortqnd
fleſhy, no handſome body, nor good complexion;
light brown hair, ſottiſh, deluuched, dull and
ſtupid, a lover of women, a diſſembler, an idler,
and not friendly to any one.
Note. lſ a be in 6 quartite, or 8 oſ E, or
with 23, and they in angles, then the nature lS
more ﬁerce and violent; in ﬁery ſigns he is cholo
ric and haﬅy; in carthy ſigns, a ſullen dogged
temper; in airy, more free and obliging; in twary,
ſottiſh, unleſs he be well beheld of "LL, O, or 1) .
SOL
iNTRonUcToRY onsmvarrons. 49
.. P .Sor. in 'be TWELVE SlGNS."
in T . .'. .'\...l
ſiGive's a perſon oſ 'a reaſonable ﬅature, ﬅrong
and Well'compoſed, "a good complexion; though
'not very clear; light hair, ﬂaxen or yellow, a'
'noble ſp'irited ſoul, courageous and valiant,_delights' '
p
'I
in warlike actions, gains victory andlhonour, a -
ferror to his'enemies, &c.
\ x - O in s _
Repreſents a ſhort, wellſct perſon, brown hair, '
not- Very comely, duſkiſh complexion, a wide
mouth, great noſe, broad face, a conﬁdent perſon,
'ﬂrong and proud thereof, oppoſmg others, &c. -
i ſ", :ct'
Denotes , a well-proportioned body, ſanguine
Fomplexion; above a middle ſize, brown "hair,
aﬀable, courteous, not very fortunate, ſubject to®"ſſ'
_ r
icontrol-Sa mild tempered perſon.
5' 1 O in 25
Perſonates 'a mean-ſhaped body, and ill com.
plexion, deformed in the' face, very unhealthy
aſpect, broWn hair, an harmleſs creature, chearſul,
a lover oſ the ſemale ſex, an admirer of ſports and .
paﬅimes, muſic, dancing, &c. but cares not for
labour, or to take pains; indolent, &c.
\ O in 51,- _
Gives a ﬅrong well-proportioned portly perſon,
ſanguine complexion, light brown or yellowiſh
hair, a full face, a large eye, ſometimes a mark in
G the
and
'a
50 XNTRODUCTORY OBSERVAT10NS.
the face, a 'juﬅ perſon, a faithful friend, punctual,
ambitious of honour, in war or otherwiſe, a pro
moter of things thereunto. _ '
;_r:..<*-- .-'Oin1'j{ -
rﬁives az-perſon ſomewhat above the middle ﬂa
tute, well proportioned, rather ﬂender, good com- '
plexlon,-_'dark"hair,- and much of it, ingenious,
chearfu-l,delights in'civil recreations, ds muſic, &c. '
O ing
Gives an upright ﬅrait body, oval face, r_uddy
chearful_'complexiſion,light'hair, a full eye, ſome
time's pimples in 'the face5'unſifortunate' immoﬅ ac- '
tiqns,.eſpecially-in- warlike, attended with diſho
nour..2., 12. But', ,..' '
Ov in ny,
Dives a notable'ſquare-bodied perſon, a ful-1
face,-_c_lo_ud_y complexion, like ſun burnt, brown
hair, ad plump ﬂeſhy body,.an ingenious perſon,
but of a rugged nature, ambitious of honour, will
not admit of an equal, fortunate upon the ſeas, and
ſometimes in the practice of phyſic, &c.
a \ . t O in 1 _
Give; a tall well-proportioned comely perſon,
-an_ oval viſage, ſanguine complexion, light brown
hair, a veryþlofty proud-ſpirited perſon, aiming at
great things, ſevere in the exerciſe'of his power,
yet honourable exploits are performed by him,
which render him ſometimes noble,
O in
lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 5'
O in Io'
Repreſents a mean ﬁature, ſickly complexion,
brown hair, not curling, an oval face, a ſpare thin
body, not well compoſed, juſt in his actions, gain
ing love and friendſhip, paﬃonate, a favourer of
the female ſex; on the whole, a reaſonable good .
tempered perſon, agreeable in converſation.
o in x:
Denotes a perſon of a middle ﬁze, a corpulent
body, round full faced, light brown hair, a clſie'ar
complexion, diſpoſition moderately good, but ſub
ject to oﬅentation, deſirous to hear rule, and free
from malicious actions. '
. A, O in X
'Gives a perſon rather tall than ſhort of ﬅature, *
a round face, and indiﬀerent complexion, light
brown hair, ſometimes ﬂaxen, a plump body, a.
lover of the female ſex, and his oWn delights and
pleaſures ;_addicted to gaming and feaﬅing, many
times to his own detriment, though otherwiſe
harmleſs; injures none but himſelf, extravagant,
and ſpending his ſubﬅance.
-'---'_--
, VENUS in 'be TWELVE Srch.
2 in w'
Deſcribes a middle ſtature, rather ſlender than
groſs, light hair, uſually marks or ſcars in the
face, a good aſpect, penſive, generally unfortunate
G 2 and
,.
51 lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATLONS.
and unlucky to himſelf or others; for 2! receives
her detriment in er.
, . 2 in 8 ' '
Gives a comely perſon, of mean ﬅature, ruddy'
complexion, but not clear, dark brown hair, a
plump body, not groſs, a mild temper, and winning
diſpoſition; fortunate, obliging, not injurious,
gaining reſpect from thoſe he converſes with.
2 in 11 .
"Gi'ves one above the middle ſize, ſlender, ſtrait, r
bred hair, clear complexion, good humourecl, i
loving, liberal, 'tliaritable, a "lover of juﬅ actions,
and rarely guiltwa any diſhonourable'ones.
l e I a 2..
Repreſents a ſh_ort perſon, round ſace, a pale
ſickly compleirioiſ, light hair, a ﬂeſhy body, of an
idle diſpoſition, addicted to company and recrea
tions of the worﬅ ſort, and ſeems to appear what
he is not, a mutable inconﬅant perſon' in moſl;
of his actions.
'2 inn.
Gives a perſon reaſonably tall, the members well
compacted, clear complexion, round face, full eye,
freckled, ﬂaxen hair, or red, moderately paſiion
ate, ſoon angry, but not laﬅing; generous, free
but ſomewhat proud; often indiſpoſed; a ſociable
good humoured perſon.
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 53
5? in "12
Gives a tall well-proportioned body, oval face,
dark hair, duſky complexion, ingenious, agood,
orator, unfortunate in moﬅ actions, a ſubtle ac
. tive perſon of an aſpiring fancy, but ſeldom attains
his deſire. _
' 2 m a.
'Gives an upright tall perſon, well compoſed
body, a ſanguine complexion, brown hair, freckles,
and dimples in the cheeks; oſ a curious obliging
diſpoſition, well beloved of moﬅ where he has deal*
ings or converſe with. ' -' ' '
2 in m
Gives a well ſet body, corpulent, broad ſa'ceſſ
duſky complexion, dark or black hair, a debaiſſſched -
perſon, ſubject to contention, envy, and vicious
unworthy actions, not ﬁt to be named, &e.
2 in r __
Repreſents aperſon rather tall, clear complex
ion, brown hair, oval viſage, generous ſpſſirited,
one that aims at no mean things, a commendable
deportment, ſomewhat proud, paﬃonate, and a
very obliging fortunate perſon.
2 m U'
Repreſents a ſmall-ſized perſon, of a pale ſickly I -
complexion, thin face, 'dark hair, diſpoſition none
of the beﬅ, a general lover of women; onev that i
loves his belly,,_to take pleaſure, but not fortunate; ſ
ſubject to change his ﬅation, and ſudden cataﬅro
phies in his aﬀairsſiſiſi
A A' i ' 2 in
51, INTRODUCTCRY OBSERVATIONS.
v
9 m 5: .
i Perſonates a handſome decent compoſed body,
rather Corpulent, clear complexion, brown hair,
or ſometimes Haxcn; diſpoſition good, aﬀable, ſi
courteous, not inclinable to vicious actions, loves
civil recreations, peace-able, quiet, obliging to all, ſi
fortunate in his aﬀairs, relpected by acquaintance
and friends, &c. i ſi i _ i', w j .,
2 in X_ _ , ,
Repreſents a middle ﬁaturc,_moderately good corn'
pinion, between pale And ruddy; a round face, .
brown or ﬂaxen hair, a dimple in the chin, a ﬁeſhy
plump perſon, and good humburbd;'juſi in ſſhis
actions: mild and peaceable, ingenious, but ſome- *
What unﬅable, yet moderately fortunate' in the
World. ,' ,
LIERCURY in tbc TWELVE SIGNS.
Y in tV'
GiVeS a body of mean ﬅature, ſpare and thin,
oval face, a light brown hair and cu'rlin'g, no.clear
conIPIexion, ill conditioned in general, addicted to
delzatez lying, ﬅealing, and ſuch like unworthy
actlons. '
Yſſ in 3
Philifſeſents a perſon of a middletſilzeﬄbut'cor
And th? ſun-burnt complexion, dark hair, ſhort
: 'ck ﬂoathful, idle; one who loves lns eaſe
and
XNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 55
and his belly, and to take pleaſure with women to
his own misfortune. '
1' zz in I:
Gives a perſon of a tall ﬅrait upright body, well .
compoſed, brown hair, goodþcomplexion, of in- ,
genious pregnant fancy, a good Orator, a cunning
lawyer, or dealer in books : is generally too many
for his opponents in argument.
p in To
Perſonates a low or ſhort ﬅature of body, of
an ill complexion, dark hair, thin face, ſharp noſe,
little eyes, a mere diſſembler, ſottiſh, light ﬁn
gcred, ill natured, unleſs the 1) or '14 be in good
aſpect to p . '
Y in a
Gives a perſon of a pretty large ﬅature,idull
complexion, ſwarthy or ſun-burnt, hair light
brown, a round face, full eye, a broad or high
noſe, a haﬅy, choleric, proud couceited perſon,
ambitious, a boaﬅer, and ſubject to contention.
i g in m:
Deſcribes a tall ﬂender well-proportioned perſon,
darkr'or black hair, no clear complexion, a long
viſage, auſſſiere aſpect, a moﬅ ingenious perſon, of
a pro-found Wit, a prying fancy, capable of attain
ing divers languages, and rare accompliſhments,
provided 32 be free from aﬄiction.
I in
55 INTRODUCTORY onsmvnrous.
e in A
Deſcribes a decent body, rather tall than other
wiſe, light brown ſmooth hair, a ruddy or ſanguine
"complexion, a juﬅ and virtuous perſon, prudent,
a lover and promoter oflearning, happily qualiﬁed,
with great natural abilities.
y in '11
Gives a perſon ofa mean ﬅature, well ſet, broad
ſhoulders, a ſwarthy complexion, dark brown
hair, curling, no decent compoſed body, the con
ditions ſcarcely to be borne; a ſubtile perſon,
a lover of the female ſex, likes company keeping
and good fellowſhip, ingenious and ﬅudious for the
promotion of his own intereﬅ. ' *
p in 1- -
One of tall ﬅature, a well ſhaped body, not
corpulent, but rather big-boned, an oval face, a
ruddy complexion, and large noſe; haﬅy but ſ00n
over, raſh in his actions, to his detriment; de
light: in noble things, but ſeldom attains them.
I! in 17"
Signiﬁes a perſon of mean ﬅature, thin face,
brown hair, and a muddy complexion, ſometime'
bovſiv-legged, or ſome defect there; peeviſh, diſ
contented, unfortunate; on the whole, an impotent
dejectedperſon. r _
- Y m 2: ,
Denotes a perſon, of an indiﬀerent ﬅature of
body, corpulent and ﬂeſhy, a good clear com
plexion, brown hair, a full face, an ingenious
i obliging
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 57
obliging perſon, inclinable to ﬅudy arts and ſci
ences; oſ a pregnant wit, and apt to a'ccompliſh
many curious inventions. '
p in x
Gives a perſon of a low ﬅature, brown hair,
thin face, pale complexion, very hairy 'on the'
bedy, a repining ſoppiſh perſon, a lover of wo-l
men, addicted to drinking, and an enemy to him
ſelf.
The Moon in the TWELVE SIGNS.
p in 'v
Deſcrihes a perſon of an indiﬀerent ﬅature of
body, a round face, light brown hair, ﬂeſhy, a
good complexion, a mutable perſon, raſh, paſ
ﬁonate, ambitious, and aſpiring, but rarely for
tunate, oſten changing condition.
D in 5
Gives a compact body, middle ſize, corpulent
and ﬅrong, dark hair, gentle, obliging, ſober de
portment, juﬅ, gains eﬅeem, attains preferment
agreeable to birth, &e.
1) in n
Perſonates awell-compoſed body, rather tall,
brown hair, good complexion, between ſanguine
and pale; body upright and well proportioned;
qualities of the mind not commendable, but inge-v
H ' _ nious,
53 lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
nious, ſubtile, notably crafty,..an_d general-lyuuq
fortunate. . ,
* > Din 5
Repreſents a middle ﬅature, well proportioned,
and ﬂeſhy perſon, a round full face, ſad hair, a
pale duiky complexion,',a ﬂexible perſon, jocular
and pleaſant ;' likes good company, very harmleſs,
and generally Well beloved ; fortunate in moﬅ aſ
fnirs, mutable and unﬅeady in reſolves, but free
from "paſſion, raſh actions, &e. 'I i
_ 7 1) in SL
Denotes a perſon ſomewhat above the middle
ﬅature, ayell proportioned, ﬅrong and big boned,
ſanguine Complexion, light brown hair, a full face,
a large eye, lofty, proud, an aſpiring perſon, am
hitious of honour, deſirous to rule, abhors ſervi
tude, and. rarely proves ſortunatex ſſ
' ' D_ in m;
Signiſies a perſon ſometimes above the, common
ﬅature, dark broivn or black hair, oval ſace, but
clear, and ſomething of a ruddy complexion ;' an
ingenious ' perſon, melancholy, reſerved, cour
teous, unfortunate, and ſeldom famous for coru
mendable actions. ' '
' 1) m A
Signiﬁes a well compoſed body, tall, light brown
. hair, ſanguine complexion, pleaſant countenance,
jocund, a lover of mirth and recreation, and re-'
ſpected of the female ſex. If a woman, admired an_d_
courted by many, but yet ſubject to misfortunes.
' D m
xﬃaonvcr'oav onsravariousf 59ſſ'
Þ* in m
Repreſents an ill ſhaped perſon, thick and ſhort,
fleſhy, ob'ſcure complexion, dark hair, illſicondi
Ttioned, ſottiſh, malicious, and treacherous. If a
female, ſeldom lives free from cenſure.
D in 1
1 Gives a handſome well proportioned body, oval
face, hair bright brown, ſanguine complexion,
free ſpirited;-paﬃonate, but forgiving; aiming at
great things, and gains reſpect from perſons he aſ
ſociates with. * ' -'
- D in 11? _
* Signiﬁes a perſon of a low ﬅature, an ill corn
plexion, thin body and face, black hair, weak in
the knees, "not active or ingenious, ſubject to de
bauchery and ſcandalous actions; of low eſteem,
&e. amongﬅ his aſſociates.
- l) in A: .
Gives a perſon of middle ﬅature, well propor
tioned, and rather corpulent, brown hair, clear'
ſanguinev complexion, ingenious, aﬀable, cour
teous, inoﬀenſive, a lover of curioſities, an active
fancy, pregnant at inventions, and rarely guilty
of unworthy actions.
o I) in X _
Deſcribes a perſon of a mean low ſtature, pale
complexion, hair bright brown, body plumplor"
fat, not much-'inclined to action, 'yet unfor-ſſ
tuaate; neither-5v good to himſelf or others ;
' -H 2 diſpoſition'
a,"
a,m.
w,
"fw13" -.
' £_f\,._,
-\
T.
w-'p'eﬄ' i
ſ
6' ' lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
diſpoſition foftened if the D, be poſited in a good
place in the_ﬁgure, and in good aſpect with good
planets, which an ingenious artiﬅ will have regard
to in all ſchemes.
The DISEASES the PLANETS naturallyſignyj', being,
puſhed in any aft/7: TWELVB SIGNS.
Diſcaſes of b .
Tooth-acb, leproſy, rheum, conſumptions,
jaundice, palſy, gout, fractures, ruptures, chin
cough, madneſs, 'and all tedious diſeaſes, cor
ruption of blood, melancholy, grief, &to.
SATURN Lord of the Sixth Houſe.
i 72 in an
Signiﬁes rheum, melancholy, vapours, cold in
the head, obﬅructions, ﬅoppage Pin the ﬅomach,
pctains in the teeth, deafneſs, &e.
i T; in 3
_ Signiﬁes ſwellings in the neck and throat, king's
evil, ſcurvy, hoarſeneſs, melancholy, dulneſs, and
Chronical diﬅempers about the neck and throat. i
i in n
. Signiﬁes inﬁrmities incident to the arms and
ſhoulders, conſumption, black jaundice, and di
vers diſeaſes proceeding from bad blood.
bin
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. it ſſ
T) in W
Denotes phthiſic, ulceration of the lungs caught
by colds, obﬅructions and bruiſes in the breaﬅ,
ague, ſcurvy, cancer, &a.
. b in St
Signiﬁes the heart aﬄicted by grief or poiſon,
conſumption in the reins or inward parts, vapours,
Weakneſs in the back, pains there, &e. '
T; in m:
Signiﬁes ﬅoppages of urine, obﬅructions in the
bowels, bound in the body, weakneſs in the thighs,
melancholy, gripings, ﬅone, &c.=
" I, in a
The blood corrupted, back and kidneys diﬅem
pered, ﬅranguary, conſumptive pains in the
knees and thighs, ſciatica, and gout.
H in in
Shews ſwellings or diﬅempers in the ſecret
parts, melancholy, piles, palſy, gout in the hands
and feet. i
T:- in I
Weakneſs in the hips and thighs, old aches
and bruiſes in thoſe parts, and ſometimes the
gent. ' i
' 72 in Ice
ct Signiﬁes the gout in the lower parts, pains in
the head, and obﬅructions therein, ague, &e.
bin
n'- INTRODUCT'ORY OBSERVATctlONS.ſſ
7; in r:
Shews diſorders in the head, teeth, and defects'
in the ears, pains in the joints, bruiſes, ſwellings
in the legs, and ſometimes a ſore throat.
T: in X
Signiﬁes deﬂuxions of rheum, king's evil, coh
ſumption, all diﬅempers of the feet and toes, ſuch '
as the gout, and illneſs by colds. A '
_ -:_:
Diﬅaſh: ofjurrTr-zn.
Jupiter ſigniﬁes inﬁrmities of the liver and veins,
inﬂammations of the lungs, pluriſies, impoﬅhumes
about the breaﬅ and ribs, quinſies, catarrhs, ſur
feits, ſcurvy, and obﬅructions of the liver and
ſtomach, if 1.', he lord of the 6th houſe, or po
ſited therein, in any ﬁgure of a decumbiture,
(when a diſeaſe ﬁrﬅ attacks).
u in er
Signiﬁes the diﬅemper lies in the head, a quin
ſy or ſwelling in the throat, chieﬂy from ill blood
in the veins of the head; produces ﬅrange dreams
and imaginations. *
i 7.', in 3 .
The diﬅemper lies in the throat, wind in the
blood, gripng in the bowels, and goutiſh humours
in the arms and hands.
atin
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 63
at in n.
Gemini being an airy ſign, you may ſuſpect a
pluriſy and ſome diſorder of the reins-e-opening a
vein is ſerviceable.
at in err
Indicatesa dropſy, the ſtomach oﬀended, bad
appetite, corrupt blood, ſcurvy, ſurfeits, &e.
11. in a, þ .
Indicates a fever, pleuriſy-the heart ill affected,
. at in 'm
signiﬁes conſumption, obﬂructions of the lungs,
melancholy, cold and dry liVer.
'it in a.
The patient hath too much blood, whence ariſe
obﬅructions, corrupt blood, feVer, piles, tumors,
inflammations, &e.
'it in m
* Indicates the ﬅranguary, piles, the blood charged
with watry humours; whence ariſe dropſy, &c.
74 in i .
Shews ſome choleric diſtemper ariſing from pu
trefaction of the blood; _a fever, pains and ſwel
lings about the knees, &e.
'14 in U'
The patient is aﬄicted with melancholy, ob
ﬂructions in the throat, &e. i
'Itin
fl- INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
21. m a:
The blood abounds too much, whence it is cor
rupted, and many diſeaſes and running pains aﬄict
the body.
'it in X
The blood is too thin and. wateriſh, which
breeds dr0pſy, &e.
M
Diſhnﬅ: gf INI A R s.
M"ars generally ſigniﬁes cholor, fever, ague,
burnings, ſcaldings, frermy, jaundice, ſhingles, the
diſeaſes of the private parts, ſmall pox, meaſles,
hurts by iron, Exc- if a be ſigniﬁcator of the diſ
eaſe.
6 in *Y* ,
Signiﬁes the patient is-almoﬅ diﬅracted, with
a violent pain in his head, rheum the eyes,
want of reﬅ, &e. at in 3
Signiﬁes extreme pain in the throat and neck,
king's evil, weakneſs in the loins, gravel, or ﬅone.
3 in n
Signiﬁes the blood is corrupted, itch, and break
ings out, ſurfeit, fever, pains in the arms and ſhoul
ders, diſorders in the ſecret parts, ﬅranguary, &c.
i a in 23
Signiﬁes pains in the breaﬅ and ﬅomach, a dry
cough, or a tumor in the thigh.
I in
'rumova WRYATI'OM-i . 59
3 in sL
Denotes aﬄiction at the heart, choleric hu
inours, ﬅone in thekidneys, pain in the knees, &e.
3 'in m . .
Shews choleric humours, ob'ﬅructions in the
bowels, bloody ﬂux, worms in children, humours
in the legs, &a.
' cT in e
Denotes diſeaſes in the reins and kidneys, ﬅone
or gravel, urine hot, French pox or gonorrhea, as
may be ſuſpected. '
- a in m
A ſuſpicion of ſome Venereal diﬅemper, or ul
cer in the ſecret parts, pains in titeblgdder, pains
in the head, owed-owing of con-ribs, &e.
3 in .
Pain or ulcers in the h-i-PS and thighs, by hu
mours ſettled in thoſe parts; an extreme heat in
the mouth and throat. '
3 in he
Signiﬁes lameneſs in knees', arms or hands, or a
ﬂying gout
i i a in A
Denotes blood over-heated, pains in the legs, fe
ver or ſurfeit,
3 in X.
Lameneſs in the feet, by corrupt humours ſettled
there, ſometimes the heart is aﬄicted, Exc;
I The
66 [N'TRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS
The Diſeaﬂs of-tb: SUN.
Thoſe attributed to the o are diſeaſes of the
heart, from red choler, pimples in the face, break
ings out, weakneſs in the eyes, burning fevers,
&c.
0 in 'r
Portends ſore eyes, megrim, head diﬅurbed,
takes no reﬅ, fevers, &c.
O in a
Tumours in the knees, quincy, or ſore throat,
breakings out, and ſwellings in thoſe parts.
0 in n
Blood inﬂamed, peﬅilential fevers, breakings
out in ſeveral parts of the body, ſcurvy, pains and
weakneſs in the legs.
0 in 25
Produces the meaſles, or ſmall pox; a diſor
' dered ﬅomach, ahoarſeneſs, dropſy, or ſwelling
in the feet.
O in a
, Signiﬁes violent pains in the head, madneſs,
ﬂone, pains in. the back, plague, ſpotted fever,
&c. >
. O in me
Denotes humours in the bowels, bloody ﬂux,
ſore throat, obﬅructions in the ﬅomach, or ſwel
lings in the neck.
0 in
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 67
AF*4_.__T
0 in a
i ﬀnﬂammation of the blood, pains in the arms
and ſhoulders, ſtone and gravel, the venereal diſ
temper, &e. '
O in m
Signiﬁes diﬅempers in the ſecret parts, ſharp
nefs of urine, obﬅructions in the ﬅomach, and fe
male courſes.
O in t
The thighs are aﬄicted by hot humours, a ﬁﬅula,
fevers, ſwoonings, &e.
O in U'
ſiSigniﬁes lameneſs about the knees, bowels diſ
ordered, and a fever.
O in r:
The blood inﬂamed, breakings out, rein: diſor
dered, gravel, ﬅone, ﬅranguary, &e.
O in X - .
The ſecret parts afﬂicted, ﬂranguary, violent
pains in thoſe parts. \ '
'w
* Diſiaﬁr of Venus,
Which are difeaſes of the womb, ſuﬀocation,
diſlocation, and diſeaſes incident to the inﬅruments
ofgeneration; as, gonorrhea, French pox, women's
courſes, ﬁts of the mother, and all thoſe that pro"
ceed from love or luſt.
Iz Sin
68 INTRODVCTOR'Y OBSERVATIONS.
L in w
Signiﬂes the diſeaſe is in the head, from abimq
dance of moiﬅ humours, lethargy, reius aﬄicted,
and head diſordered by cold.
I' i" 8
- Sighiﬁes pains in the head and ſecret puts,
ſw'el'lings in the' neck frommoiﬅ humours in the
head.
2- in n.
\ Siſigniﬁes a cumipted blood, &Popſyz king's oVil,
and a ﬂux of rheum.
' e in 25
., Shewsſſ the ﬂomhch is much bﬂ'ended With c'old
raw undigeﬅed humours, many times-with a ſure
felt, and an inclination to vomit, &c.
_, , 2 _in 51..
Some ill aﬀection of the heart',;_love,_ paﬂicmzr'2
&e. pains in the logs of bad conſeqilence.
, 2 in mz
Shews i'ome diﬅemper' in the bowels, a ﬂux, or
the worms, mucus in the guts, or ﬅomach.
p
2 in as.
A gonorrhea, or diſiempe: in the, reins, or ſurfeit
\ by too plentiﬂﬂ ſiea'tingTQr diinking,, gnd windy
ﬃſOſdeAS'
ﬄL in' 1"iſ
Sctﬂe viﬂUrEui361ſiempkr, ﬁﬂdþa'i'h in iheprſvnte.
"vates, she;
[UTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS. 6,
2 in p .
Hip gout, ſurfeits, cold and moiﬅ humours.
9 in by. 1
' Gout in the knees and thighs, and 'ſwellings in,
thoſe parts.
2 in at.
Pains and ſwellings in the legs or knees from a '
cold cauſe, and the heart aﬄicted.
2 in X
SheWs lameneſs in the feet, ſwellings in the legs,
a ﬂux, windy complaints, &e.
m
Dzﬁafe': of Make-'Jaw
They are ﬅammering, liſping, hoarſneſs, coughs,
imperfections in the tongue, all diſeaſes of the
brain, and lungs, as vertigos, apoplexies, madneſs,
aﬁhmas, bad memory, &e.
a in 'r
' Shews the diſeaſe lies in the head and brain;
vertigo and Wind in the head, and ſometimes diſ
orders of the womb.
I in a -
_ Signiﬁes defects in the throat, hoarſneſs, ſwell
ings in the neck, and alſo pain in the feet.
a
y in 11
Signiﬁes windineſs in the blood, gouty pains,
in the head, arms, &e.
yin
" He \ INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS
r I in I
Imports a cold ﬅomach, gripings, windineſs,
diﬅillation oſ rheum, lameneſs in the legs, from
colds, &e. i
I in St
Denotes tremblings, melancholy, pains in the
back, occaſioned by colds caught in the feet.
y in m:
Signiﬁes much wind in the bowels, obﬅruc
tions, pain in the head, ſhort breath, and wind
cholic.
y in A
Shews ﬅoppage of urine, obﬅructions, blood
diſordered, breaﬅ, lungs, and reins, aﬀlicted.
I in m
Shews diﬅempers in the ſecret parts, aﬄictions *
of the bOWels, running pains in the arms and
ſhoulders.
I? in I
Shews diﬅempers' in the reins, weakneſs in the
back, ﬅoppage at_ the ﬅomach, coughs, ſwellings
in the thighs and hips.
' Y in by
Shews ﬅeppage oſurine, goutiſh humours about
the knees, pains in the back, melancholy, &e.
p in 3:
Denbtes wind in the blood, running pains all
over the body, ﬂuxes, and diſorders in the bowel's;
gin
INTRODUCTORY, OBSERVATIONS." 7]
Y in X X
Signiﬁes pains in the head, weakneſs in the l-egs
and feet; a gonorrhea, or a diﬅemper in the reins,v
&C' '
Dſſ'aſes qf 'be NIOON,
Which are cholic, dropſy, ﬂuxes ; terms of wo-x
men, cold, rheumatic complaints, ſurſeits, rheum
in the eyes, worms, rotten coughs, convulſinns,
kings evil, ſmall pox, meaﬂes, lethargy, &c.
' 'p in ar'
Signiﬁes convulſions, deﬂuxions of rheum from
the head; lethargy, weakneſs in the eyes, and
pain in the knees. 1
D in 8
Gives pains in the legs and feet; ſwellings,
ﬅoppage, ſore throat, &a. A .
1) in I:
A wandering gout in the legs, arms, hands and
feet; ſurfeits and great obﬅructions. *
1) in gp .
The ſtomach much aﬄicted, a ſurſeit, ſmall
pox, convulſions, falling ſickneſs, tympany, or'
drOpſy.
Þ in 51.
The heart aﬄicted; a ſore throat, quincy,
kings evil, &a.
ſ) m
inrmoucronv OBSERVATIONS;
_ I) in m:
Signiﬁes great pain and diſorders in the bowels,
melancholy blood, obﬅructions, wealuieſs in the
arms and ſhoulders.
Þ in if: _
Dehotes the reins are diﬅempered, obﬅructions
in the ﬅomach, weakneſs in the back, Whites in'
Women, ſurfeits, pluriſy, &c.
'D in m
Shews the diﬁemper is in the ſecrets; ſmall
pox, poiſon, dropſy, the heurt aﬄicted, ſwoon.
ing, &c.
I) in I
Signiﬁes lameneſs, or weakneſs in the thighs,
diſiempers in the boWels, &c.
i p in w
Signiﬁes the ſtone, weak back, gput in the knees,
Whites in women, &c.
J 1) in a:
Signiﬁes hyﬅerics, ſwellings and pains in the *
Iegs, and ſecret parts.
I) in X
Shews cold taken in the ﬂeet, and body diſhrdered
thereby; ſwellings in the legs and thighs, dropſies,
and the body overcharged with moiﬅ humours.
1! 'te
'all hergﬃzrj Tadlt,ſht=wing what Part of Man': Bad)
i: goe/Wed by every Plane! if: any iﬀtþe 12 Sigm'.
b ll- - 3 O 9 Y 1)
:_ breaﬅ neck ſſ r- . .
v arms a: FZLZ' firm a:
I ' head 'heart - ſig
heart ' ſhould. reins . _ _ .
8- breaﬅ . arms throat knees leach thghs 'egg
_ head teet throat
throat belly neck
arms ſhould. ſecrets . feet
_ , 4 legs lhlgl'lS head
n heart mieaﬅ arms melesct throat knees ſhouſhſi
belly a reins - breaſt A arms
. reine heart breaﬅ her lcgs logs head
95 belly ſecrets ﬅomac. a;" throat throat breaﬅ
thighs ' thigh: thigh: eyes ryes stomac
. ſecrets belly knees (at Feet throat
-- . . A 1 ' arms r
51 rems thighs neart ziead arms ztomac
h k - b u ſhm'ld' ſh ld *
a eart ne.s e y throat ou . ueart
thighs reins bowels. throat head 'it-ad arms
"12 ſecrets knees legs be" breaﬅ breaﬅ ſhould.
feet guts belly y heart neart bowels
. ſecrets ſi throat
A frighs logs reft ſhould. 'feed heart brzeaﬅ
__ nees rcms ſmall A re.n3
> head - arms < tomac .
relns ſecrets 5uts aeart
eyes belly
legs thighs head breaﬅ throat lemac
m feet feet arms hear: idlm bf) 1 heart
ſecrets ſecrets thighs WHEN . we s &Crcts
back
logs knees throat he: Him-m' [dſ-eaﬅ bowels
. rt irms rein: .
I tcct head leg: My __highs hent thigh:
tlngns thigh: rect hurt ſecrets back
head leg: arms be" breaﬅ (tom-ac reins
15- r'eet neck ſhould. well; aeart heart knees
knees eyes knees highs ſecrets' thigh'
k
t
head arms breaﬅ - - , bowels ſecrets Þ
3: neck ſhould. lcgs thighs legs
thighs breaſt heaFt heart wele:
heart" ct i' reins
a'an hadﬅ belly ſtream ' Bil? knees thigh:
X 'an ld grea ancle: thigh: 1'3 k ſecrets feet
on ' cart feet ſi ec thighs
K The
74 ſi . _ ' ruraenvſſcmav' naeum-rious.- ſſ
.ſiſſſiſiT*-ſi.775e'ſiI/72 J ch TAt'i-xu 3
suppoſe a perfſort felleﬁclqj at a dertaid time, when
a :his hgniﬁdator was._ih SL'; I entier the. table
with 3' at the tap, and Z'Eﬃ 'the'ﬃﬁ i colimm on
the left hand, againﬅ which, in the angle, I 'ﬁnd a,
and U', which ſhews the patient' is much aﬂicted
at his heart, with pains in hisphack, weakneſs' 1
his knees, and the extreme parts'b'f hiebody, as re
preſented'- hy thoſe ſigns and planets; underﬅand
p the ſamevfof thereﬅ, Which will he eaſily conceived
by 2anintelligent perſon. , ' "
Firﬅ. Conſider in your ﬁgure. the 6th, 7th, And
rath houſes, Which ſignify diſeaſe', as alſo the
'*loras thereof. _ ct "
Secondly. Cenſider the nature of the' ſigns, upon
the c'uſps thereof, for ﬁerzy ſigns ſignify diſeaſe:
proceeding from cholor; earthy ſigns, melancholy;
a-iry ſigns, wind and corruption of blood; watry'
ſigns, ſalt and Watry phlegm. " *
Thirdly.' Obſerve the nature of the. planets, And
thdſe with whom they are in aſpect; which being
judicioully mixed, will clearly diſcover the oﬀend
ingſſ humour, and the nature of the diſeaſe.
INTRQDUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. "75
' LHm to draw a SPEGU-LUM ay' TwaLvn Houses,
_ (ſee 'beg/015.) ſſ
0),
Ne. r' is called the A- endant'or Firſt .Houſe,
the Eaﬅ, and an anglexiyþ-P- ' ,
No. 2-. The Second Houſe and ſucced'ent. J-L'
_ No'. 3. The Third Houſe and cademſi. JJ
95."0 No. 4.- The' Faurth Houſe, an angle; and
Nor-th. Quit-V.
No', 5.? The Fifth Houſe and ſuccedent.
No. 6. The Sixth Houſe and cadent.
mld-3 No. 7. The Seareth Houſe the Weſt angle-79;"
No; 8. The Eighth Houſe', a- ſuccedentr
_ No. 9. The Ninth Houſe, a cadeht. ' '
UWZ'FQNO. 10. The Tenth Houſe, the South angleprjﬄ.
- No; rr.- The Elisvonthv Houſe, the ſhCCedent.
- No. rz'. The TWelfeh.Houſe,-a cadent. '
Ha'uHo me' aSCHEM-E 'ba Hexyms, having
an Emamams and Tuaa 91' Hous'a's,fa'
* any Moment of Time. r * 7 *
i Having drawn' the ﬁgure, as 'in the anneited
plate, you muﬅ ſeek out the place pſſſ. the in an:
ephemeris for the time given, from'which enter?
the table of houſes; and in the column of the
tenth houſe, look for the ſign and degree the O
is in; and right againﬅ it, in the ﬁrﬅ column,
you have the time in hours and minutes, to be
added to the hours and minutes of the time of *
" K 2 your
7'6 - INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS.
your queﬅion after noon ;" which hours and
minutes, (iſ they be under 24), ſeek out in the
column of time from noon; but if they exceed
24, then caﬅ away 24, and the remainder ſeek out
in the ſame column of time from noon; and right
againﬅ it in the ſame line, you' will ﬁnd the ſigns
and degreesto beplacedupon the 10, 11, 12, I,
2 and 3 houſes; ſo you have ſix of your houſes
erected,,the other .,ﬁ_X'are eaſily found, by only
placing the ſame degree of the Oppoſite ſign on
the.opp0ſite houſe; as if 'rfbe on the cuſp of. the
lOtll houſe 120, then you muﬅ 'place no. ofe
on the cuſp of the 4tl-l houſe, and ſo, of the. reﬅ.
I would erect a ﬁgure April to, 1788, at: two
o'clock in the afternoon; I look in the ephemeris,
and ﬁnd the O's place in cy- 200, 26'; and againﬅ
no" in the 2d column in the table of houſes, I
ﬁnd IlI 14', to which I add the time 2 hours,
which makes 3", 14'; and with this ſum, I enter
the table of time from noon, againﬅ which I ﬁnd
21 of a on the 'cuſp of the loth, 29o 39'of n on
the Ilth, 3h 41' of 51 on the Izth, oo 55' of nz
on the aſcendant or tﬅ houſe, 20o 52'of 'm on the
ad, and 170 6' of a; on the 3d. ſi ſſ
7'
- _ * INTRODD'CTORY OBSERVATIONS. 77
Wﬁnd what PLANET reigneth wary Hour in lb:
'Day and Night throughout 'be Year; as alſ? the
length zfeacþ Planetary Hour.
Every day, be it ſhort or long, muﬅ be divided
into tWelve equal parts, every one of which are
called aſſ planetary hour, as are alſo the nights.
EXAMPLE. .
You muﬅ from an ephemeris, or in the
annexed table, ſeek 'out how long the day is
from ſun-riſe toſun-ſet; as ſuppoſe it was Ioh,
20'; reduce theſe into minutes, and divide by 12,
and what remains, reduce into ſeCOnds; this done,
you will ﬁnd it to quote 51', 40", the juﬅ length
of the planetary hour, when the day is of that
length. But the following page is ſuﬃciently
explanatory.
Aper
ails LNTRODUGTORY OBSERVATIONS.
ſi perpetual Table of Brim/t o Day, 'Iwﬂ' 'þ
Lcngtb aſ the Day and U;"th the [uneaſi- algnd Deſi
ſi' muſe of Days, and 'be Lengi/j ﬀ ib? "Pſxl'iil'ary
Hours. i " . . ſſ v
-\\'\
s Brtak 'Twi- Leng'b ngtb Increaſe Plantſ Plant
- 5 "a ib! 1ſ!be, 0 rþe _ ﬂux, &urb
M' V Daſ Day. &girt. Aligbtl,
-H,M.-H.M. . an, m-M. &an. 'm H. .M*,
January '153 52 V S ed'6 e o' Acid: 340 ct '16
us 426 18 8 2615 340 510 - wi
us 306 30 8 15 zr 240 15
Febſﬂary 1 5 13 6 417- 9* 14. 22 2. 4 o n
. '14 557 510 1613 442 420 511., 9
' 1114. 3'6-7 "ii-o 5 J>3 63 Lob * . 6
March 14. 19 7 41." 2612 34-3 540, '_ ay
113 57? Ft? U 5414 31!" * 'a
- . rﬁ 33? 37 re, il r 5 'a t 5Q
Apri! .r 3 4.S 56 13 28 19 32 5 41 53
- in I 35) man, '9* 6 30" se
' p, z 2 I) 5814. 18 7 Sﬂl 47
May z 1' 2310 3'7 '15 46 7 40 r "43!
'no 1'41146 'i 3 mal. A?
1] No No 16 8 32 I 40
ſung . r Mglﬂ N-lﬁlt [6 i: r 3 Wit _
an but but 16 16 34 8 52 r o 38
:z Tui Twr- '6 20 4ctd'd dr are 39
July 1 light light 16 6 54. DE 20' "EO' tye]
no 17114315 44 r6ou4zr' 190 41
2.' 24103615 14 4612 rzt 170 43
Auguﬅ 1 7- 6 9 54 14 38 22 'a 48 r 13 o 7
na 389 zzi4 4 zZzzr rco 50
2-3 78 5311 2610 343 Of 70 53
September r 3 38 8 22 lz 44 11 3 42 l 3 o 57
113598 rrz 4..1 4 22! at o
214 217 3911 =4xz s 20 571 3
October 14 417 910 46 13 5 4co 54r 6
r15 07 Clo 613 6 zco so] '0
215 175 43 q 2814. 6 580 47r 13
Noi'ember i 5 33 5 27 S 50 1-5 7 36 0 41'- l 15
i "5 456 15 8 zozg 8 60 42' 18
zrs 546 6 7 5616 8 gcb 4or 20
December r 5 59 6 1 7 40 16 46 0 38 X 27
115 os 59 7 3416 520 38l 12
us 595 1 7 aox6 '40 33' V
Again,
mrwqcronſiv - OBSERVATZONS. 7,
' gives th 91, Propmtioning-for the 20'.
Again, ſuppoſe l want to know the length of the
planetary hour on the t5th of April, at two
ddoekiu; the, afternoon- R
_ .I;-ﬁ'-nd bymy almanack, from O riſing to 9
ſetting, is I51), 50', which, by the foregoing table,
The e'
riſes pha; day-at 57 paﬅ 5, therefore, ab after;
poem-is almoſt gh after a riſing: then I reduce
the-nine hours into minutes, and divide 69', and
the quotient is 7h 52.', therefore I conclude, there
are 52 ſpent of the 7th planetary hour.
Laﬅlya I look into the table (ſee plate) for
Tueſday, (which being the day enquired) and
under a , as being his day againﬅ 7., the planetaryt
hour, and I findtheſplanet 14. to be lord of that
' - r ' 4 r
hour. gſſzz Tin? o' f/L A (ere/r, weaaav 'Y- ond ctf
an? (l' Aſſay/
How in rectify a'N-A'rrvl'rr by the ANIMODER
- > aſ PTOLOMY.
ſſ ct To vre'ctiſy, by the Animoder of Ptolomy, ereLX
theſſlﬁgure as near as pdﬃbleto the eﬅimate time
of birth," and conſider in what ſign, and in what
degree of that ſign, the new Moon happened that'
[aſſ preceded the birth; or iſ a full Moon more
nearly preceded the time of birth than a new one,
then note thezdegree of' the ſign wherein either oſ
the l'uminaries were poſited that Were aboVe the'
earth; but if one oſsthe luminaries be exactly
' - ' ' - . ' riſing,
ſ.
g (py- r/ (14
t
ſo INTRODUCTORY meam-nous;
riſing, and the other ſetting," prefer that which is
riſing. Then' obſerve which of the planets hath
moﬅ dignities by triplicity, houſe, exaltation;
term, or conﬁgu'ratidns, in the degree of ſuch
preceding new Moon, Or in the degree of the
laminary above the earth, or that aſCends 'at ſuch'
preceding full Moon; and alſo' What ſi'g'n 'and
degree then aſcends upon the horizon, orv that:
A culminates or poſſeſſes the cuſp of the tenth houſe;
and if the degree of the planet, digniﬁed as above,
be ſituated nearer the degree aſcending, than to
the degree culminating, place the ſame degree in
number of the ſign aſcending, upon the cuſp of
the aſcendant, that ſuch ruling planet be poſſeſſed
Of the ſign he Was in. But on the contrary, if the
planet be nearer the degree on the cuſp of the tenth
houſe or Medium Coeli, than to the aſcendant,
then the degree culminating, or poſſeſſing the cuſp'
of the mid-heaven, muﬅ be made the ſame with
the degree the ſaid planet was itſ, and ſo according
to the ſign and degree thus aſcertained, muﬅ the
other houſes oſ the ﬁgure be varied, and this will
be the true time of the native's birth. But if it
ſhould happen that two planets have equal dignities
in the degrees aſoreſaid, prefer that which is poﬁted
the neareﬅ to the aſcendant. Ptolemy further
obſerves, that what ſign the IMoon is in at the
time of birth, is the very ſign which aſcended at:
the conception; and again, Whatever ſign the
Moon is in at conception, that, or the oppoſite
will be the ſign aſcending at birth. The
INTRODUCTORY onseavurons. ii
A HORARY QUESTION.
Shall the ngerem In Ricb .? And when 2 (ſhe the
Plate,) '
The lord of the aſcendant, and lord oſ the hour, '
being of one nature, and triplicity, ſhews the
ﬁgure to be radical. And as Gemini occupies the
cuſp of the aſcendant, Mercury is its lord, and the
querent's ſigniﬁcator; and being poſited in the
eleventh houſe, in a watery ſign, and in trine to
Jupiter, lord oſ the ſeventh, who is here poſited
in the ſixth, is a ﬅrong-argument of riches by
means of ſervants, or of perſons in a ſubordinate
capacity. The Moon, who is lady of the ſecond,
being in her exaltation, in trine aſpect to the Sun,
and applying to a trine with jupiter, and a dextep
trine aſpect with Mercury, declares a great and
ſudden ﬂow of riches to the querent, and that un;
expectedly. .
Being much preſſed to ſpeak to the particular
point of time when this good fortune ſhould come
up, I conſidered what might be the gentleman's
occupation;v and obſerving Mercury to be his
ſigniﬁcator, and, poſited in a. watery ſign, I_ told
him that l judged he" belonged to the ſea, and had
ſome employment on ſhip-board, in a capacity
where writing or accounts were principally con
cerned. This he acknowledged, by ſaying he was
captain's'ſecretary. l then obſerved, that his
principal ſigniﬁcators oſ wealth and riches were
- " L alſo
3; rnrmnvcroav oascav_Aa=zeNs.
alſo poſited in watery ſigns, as the Moon 'm
Cancer in. the ſecond houſe, and Jupiter in Scprpip
in the ſixth, and the Sun and l\\Iercury in Piſces
in the eighth, all in trine aſpect 0f.each other,
which plainly indica'ed theſe riches were to come
by the ſea; and as they were to he ſudden, and, as
it Were inflanraneous, I concluded they Would
ariſe by the capture of ſome rich prize, in a ſouth
' caﬅ direction from London, which is denoted by
>the=Part of Fortune being in the twelfth houſe, and
"Venus, its diſpoſnor, in Aquaries, a ſouthern ſign,
in quartile aſpect to the Part oſ'Fortune; and the
Part of'Fortune being oppoſite to Jupiter, lord of
the ſeventh, the 'houſe of public enemies, alſo
declares-the querent's fdrtuiie ſhould come that
way; Which is rendered ﬅill more apparent, by
the Part of Fortune beingr in ſextile to the 'Moon
and 'Mer'cury. W'hen il had - mentioned theſe
particulars, he frankly told me his ſhip was under
ſailing'orders, and he exPected to be called on
board every'hour. v
To aſcertain the time when theſe riches ſhould
he ac uired, -I particularlyynoticed the application
, oſ the Moon tolthe lord of the aſcendant, and
found them nineteenv degrees diﬅant from a partile
trine aſpect, But the Moon, being ſwift in mo
tion, with three degrees North'latitude, and Mer
cur'y'havihg np latitude, I deducted three degrees
from the Moon's place, which l' fet down at twelve
' ' degrees
INTRODUCTORY OBSERvATXONs. 23
degrees; and then by ſubſh'acting twelve degrees
from twenty-eight degrees three minutes; which
isﬁfvſercury's place, there remains ſixteen degrees
three ſiminutes; which, as the Moon is in a move
nblefxgn, and Mercmyjn a coniriio'ri' ſign, is equal
to ſixteen weeks, or thereabout; and tſierefore l
concluded this good fortune would happen to him
in nearly that diﬅance of time. And I have ſince
had the ſatisfaction of ben-ting', from the gent-le
mztn's ov'jn ſnout'h', that thispred-iction way' 'iteﬂHy
veriﬁed by the capture of a' rich priz'e,yw1cliin the'
time ſpe'ciſied. *
i 4 L 2 , Judgment
[84]
Judgment of Nativities.
Y reaſon of the various eﬀects oſ the ﬅars and
planets, upon the bodies of human mortals, in
producing mirth or miſery to every native, l ſhall '
here give ſome rules to let you know whether the'
native will be generally happy or unfortunate in
the courſe of his life, either in youth, riper years,
or old age ; for ſome live ſplendidly in their youth,
and Perhaps beg in their old age; others live
meanlyin their youth, and yet ﬂouriſh and come
to advancement in their latter days; but many
others live famouﬂy in wealth and honour, from
their cradle to the grave. *
Therefore obſerve,-If in a nativity you ﬁnd
four planets or more eſſentially ﬅrong in houſe or'
exaltation, or in mutual reception from their dig
nities, it denotes a moﬅ excellent fortune, and the
native ſhall be generally fortunate in moﬅ, if not
all the actions of his whole liſe. -
On the contrary, if many planets ſhall be in
their detriment, fall, peregrine and cadent, with
out reception, it makes the native' live obſcurely'
miſerable, and very poor, without any ſupport or
aﬃﬅance,
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONSQ s;
alliﬅance, eſpecially if r), a, or 23 be in the
aſcendant, ſecond or tenth houſes.
Again, theOor D in the ﬁrﬅ, ſecond, ﬁfth, tenth,
or eleventh houſes, in * or A to each other,
and either of them in the aſcendant, with the 0
or D in the eleventh, in * or A to a planet
in the ſecond, eſpecially with reception, or the
o upon the euſp 'of the tenth, in * or A to It
or 2; and they ﬅrong; and iſ the O at the ſame
time happen to be in the lgth degree of w', theſe
are all great teﬅimonies oſ wonderful fortune;
but iſ the major part-oſ thoſe ſigniﬁcators be
otherwiſe poſited in ill places oſ the ﬁgure, you
muﬅ judge the reverſe accordingly. ſſ
But iſ ſome planets are well digniﬁed, and others
Weak and aﬄicted, it gives a various and unſettled
fortune, ſometimes up and ſometimes down in the
World; and this chieﬂy, iſ the ſigniﬁcators are in
moveable ſig-ns. The O, D, 11., 2, and 69
above the earth, makes the younger years molt
happy, eaſy, and proſperous; but iſ' under the
earth, the latter part oſ the native's life will 'be
moﬅ glorious and ſplendid.
But remember this as a moﬅ certain rule, that
I) or 3 peregrine in the tenth, or the 23 in that
houſe, deﬅroys the native's honour, credit and
reputation, For I have ſeen the nativity ofa wo
man l well knew, who had'the 23 in the tenth,
and a lord oſ the tenth poſited in the aſcendant,
and ſhe. was very ſeldom or never free from'ſcan
dal,
86 lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
dal, diſgrace, and ſlander, whether ſhe deſerved
it or no. The O and Þ in'g to each other from
cardinal ſigns, denote: the ſame; and if either of
them be in the ſecond houſe, or caﬅ an ill aſpect
thither, it makes the native poor even to his grave.
If I; or 3 are placed in angles, and at, L,
and O in ſuccedent houſes, the native will be poor
in his youth, but grow rich in the latter part of
his life.
Some cl/aice and mrgﬄary APHORISMS, 'Urry 'ſi-ful in
zbe Judgment of NATrvr'ru-zs.
Saturn or i a' aﬃicting t'h'e o, 1) , or aſcendant,
by 6 or partile aſpects, ſhews theperſon then-born,
to be ofa ſhort or ſickly life. a
3 in the aſcendant in ÞF, in d to b', make?
the'native raſh, headﬅrong, treacherous and re:
hellious to all, and indeed a friend t'0' nene, but
t'romthe teeth outward.
52 in 6 , 0 orgofa , and they both' peregrine in
a woman's nativity, makes her (Without a mira*-*
cle) a notorious lewd drunkard; and if Ybe in'o
or 3 to the lord of the aſcendant, ſhe is alſo a thief
and liar into the bargain. ct
a' peregrine in the tenth', brings ſc'an'dal and
diſhonour to' the natiVe, whether he deſerve it of
no, eſpecially if the 23 be there.
The
IN-TRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 87
'The O or 1) in 0 , or 8 oft; or a , from the fourth
ﬁnd tenth, denote a violent death to the native; if
toJ, only in a humane ſign, the native dies by
the hand of-his enemies; ifto I; he may be poiſoned
or ﬅarved to death in priſon.
The lord of the aſcendant ﬅronger than the
lord of the ſeventh, the native always overcomes',
his enemies ;* iſ the ſeventh is ﬅrongeﬅ,- the con
trary. _ A ' r
y in 'a or gto a , gives a ſharp wit, and a noto
rious lying tongue, and it thief toſſo, if from cardi
nal ſigns. -
He that hath T; or 3 in the ninth, and the a
in the aſcendant, will prove a mad fellow to make
either a Pope or pariſh prieﬅ of.
He that hath the 1) in 'w in i: to Y , and the
23 upon the aſcendant, will be a promoter of lies
and deeeits;
I? -in the ſecond houſe, peregrine, makes the
native very poor, unleſs 1', or 2 he theteſi '
ſſa And the O in the ſecond in their dignities,
gives the. native an eﬅate, but procures him ways
enough to ſpend it ; ill poſited there, very little to
he predigal of.
Planets weak in the eleventh, denotes friends
feW and faithleſs; but ﬅrong there, able and wil
ling to aﬃﬂ the native.
The promiſing planets under the earth, perform
it in the latter part of the native's life.v ,
. 2 in.
88 lNTRO'DUCTOR'Y OBSERVATIONS.
2 in the aſcendant, and I! lord thereof in re
eeption of her, denote a juﬅ, honeﬅ, and fair
dealing perſon.
ln a geniture of ſhort life, the aſcendant, O or
) directed to the 29, is killing.
ln'a noctutnal nativity, if I; be poſited in the
eighth houſe, it pOrtends a violent death.
XVhen in a nativity,, 2 is poſited in the tenth,
he the native man or woman, they marry honour
ably. '
The O or D in a or 8 of b or a from an.
gles, denotes great danger to the native's ſight.
2 or It, or 53 in the ﬁfth, in a fruitful ſign,
denotes many children to the native.
L in 8 or U to 'it or 9 , deﬅroys the children
or iſſue of the native, let them. be ever fo nuc
merous.
3 in 3 to the aſcendant, and I; in the ſame
aſpect to the o , makes an ahſolute knave, and a
treacherous perſon.
_ The lord of the aſcendant in the tenth, joined
therewith the lord of the twelfth in combuﬅion
of the O, denotes the native's exile and tedious
baniſhment from his lawful inheritance, eſpecially
if the o he lord of the twelfth.
He who hath a in his eleventh houſe at the
moment of birth, ſhall neVer prevail againﬅ his
maſter or his enemies.
The lord of the tenth in the twelfth, and the
lord of the twelfth in the aſcendant, are certain ar
guments
[NTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS. 3,
_ guments of impriſonment; the like if the lord of
' the aſcendant is in the twelfth.
-8\ in the ſecond, gives loſs of goods, by quar
rels, ﬅrife and idleneſs.
M
Of "the SIGMFICATORs ﬀtbe Autum- and
QUESLTED.
11. When any queﬅion is propounded, the ſign
aſcending and its lord, are given always to the
Qierent; and the houſe which ſigniﬁeth the thing
demanded or ſought after, with the lord thereof,
repreſents the Qieſited.
- . 2. You may eaſily know what houſe every
queﬅion pen-tains to by the ſigniﬁcation of the
houſes before-going; as iſ one ſhould enquire con
cerning a brother, then you are to judge from the
third houſe and the lord thereof, and ſee how he
beholds the lord ofthe aſcendant.
5._ if concerning the ﬁdelity or falſeneſs of
friends-and acquaintance, of things hoped for or
expected, then make uſe of the ch houſe, &c.
and ſo on for the reﬅ. X
Note. In all gueﬅiﬀns the D is given to the
lord of the aſcendantﬀ' as co-ſigniﬁcator with
him. '
M X 'CONSX
p JNTMWCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
Cowsmznanons bgﬂm J-uneMzN'r;
Before judgment be given upon any queſtion, it
is requiﬁte to cbnſider whether the queﬁion be ra
dical or not, which may be diſcovered.
Firﬅ. I£theloxd of the aſcendant and lord oſ the
hour be one, or of one triplicity-or nature, the
queﬅion is radieal, and judgment may be given.
- Secondly. When the ﬁrſt or ſecond degrees oſa
ſign aſcend, do not give judgment, except the age,
corpotature, and complexion of the Querent agree
with the ſign aſcending.
Thirdly. When the latter degrees of a ſign aſ.
tend, it is not ſafe to give judgment, unleſs the
Aerent agree in years to the degree aſcending.
Fourthlyſi When the Þ is in the latter degrees
,of a ſign, or in the way of being combuﬅ," it is
dubious' to give judgment. *_
Laﬄy. See that the 7th houſe and thedom!
thereof, be net-aﬄicted, for if- ſo, no credit -wi>ll'
be gained by the queﬅion, becauſe that houſe and
the lord thereat', 'ſigniﬁes-the art-iﬃ himſelﬁ;
How any Thing demanded i: brought-'o Perfectin
1. When the planet' that denote: the Werent,
and that planet that ſigniﬁes the thing inquired af
ter, are applying by a * or A aſpect; or if they'
' are going to a '6 , this argues the buſineſs ſhall be
eﬀected: When t
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 91
a. When the ſigniﬁcator of the matter inquired
after ſhall apply to the lord of thev aſcendant, and
be in his eſſential'dignities, this ſigniﬁes the buſi
neſs ſhall be perfected unexpectedly.
3. If the ſigniﬁcators apply friendly from houſes
they delight in, or from ſigns they joy in, the'
buſineſs or matter ſought after, comes toa happy'
concluſion. *
4. When the promiſing planets dwell in houſes'
proper and convenient, though there be no aſpect,
the matter may be brought to perfection.
w - 7
Of MOLES, MARKS, and SCARS, iſ the Que
RENT and desrren.
1. Conſider the aſcendant and the lord thereof,
and what ſign is poſited therein; then on thoſe
parts of the body repreſented thereby, you may
conclude there are moles, mark-s, or ſcars.
2. See what ſign deſcends on the cuſp oſ the
ſixth houſe, and what ſign the lord oſ the ſixth is
poſited in; and on thoſe parts of the body re
- preſented, you will ﬁnd two other moles or fears.
3. And by the ſign the 1) is in, you may judge
there is a mark or ſcar, eſpecially if that ſign 'is
aﬄicted by aſpect, or preſence oſ an infortune.
4. Iſ the ſigns he maſculine, it denote: the'r'nark.
to be on the right ſide; if feminine, on the leſt ﬁde.
Ma 5.If
92 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS.
5. lf the beginning of a ſign afcen'ds, or lord
thereof in few degrees of a ſign, the mark is on
the upper part of the member; and if,in the middle
of a ſign, or towards the latter end, moderate
your judgment accordingly.
And in reſpect to the colour, judge according
to the colour the planet ſigniﬁes: it is an obſervan
tion made by philoſophers, that whenever there
is a mark or'mole in the head or face, it denotes
another at ſome diﬀerent part of the body. We
have therefore giving the' adjoining plate as an
elucidation.
w
Of the Time qfrccriwſing a HORARY Qursrron.
The moﬅ eminent artiﬅs are agreed that the in
ﬅant of time in which an artiﬅ underﬅands the
deſire of any querent, he ought to take for the true
and radic'al time, whereon to ground his judgment.
i Alſo, if a letter be ſent from any querent to an
artiﬅ, let him take the time he Opens the letter,
and not the time when the letter came, unleſs he
breaks it open immediately.
Of Rrſal-uing HORARY Qpnsrtons.
FIRST HOUSE
Giveth judgment of the native or querends
life, therefore, if a queﬅion he demanded con
cerning ]ife, conſider if' the ſign aſcending the
lord thereof, and the Moon be free from mis
fortune;
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVAT10NS. 93
fortune; that is, if the lord of the aſcendant be
not combuﬅ, or in conjunction, or oppoſition of
the lord of the eighth, twelfth, ſixth, or fourth
houſe, if he be eſſentially ﬅrong in the aſcendant
or mid-heaven, or elſe in the eleventh or ninth
houſe, in good aſpect with 11, 9 , or the O in the
terms of '11. and 2 , it denotes long life to the
querent; and otherwiſe, if contrarily poſited; for
the lord of the aſcendant, or the aſcendant un
fortunate, or the D aﬄicted, ſhews ſudden evil.
SECOND HOUSE.
Shall the Natz'm or Querent attain Kithe: P
Here you muﬅ conſider the ſecond houſe, the
lord thereof, and the Part of Fortune. If there
be any application between the lord of the ſecond
houſe, the 1) or lord of the aſcendant, or any tranſ
lation of light and nature between them, or the
lord of the ſecond fortunate in the aſcendant, or
lord of the aſcendant fortunate in the ſecond; if
all the planets be angular or in good houſes, or
the D or in the ſecond houſe, all theſe ſignify
riches.
THIRD House.
Oſ Bretbren, journies, &a.
If at, 2 , or the 53 be poſited in the third houſe,
or if the lord of the aſcendant, and lord of the
third be in * or A, to the cuſp of the aſcendant,
or
94 lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS
or the iord of the aſcendant to the cuſp of the
third, it ſhew: the agreement of brothers, ſucceſs
in journies, &c. Or if the 1) be in the third, in *
to the aſcendant, this alſo ſhews harmony, or ſuc
'ceſs in journies. i
FOURTH Housz.
Oſpurcbaſing Hullﬅ'l, Land, A-Itrcbandize, &Ft.
Let the aſcendant and his lord, with the planet
from whom the D is ſeparated, repreſent the
querent; the fourth houſe and his lord, with the
D , the ground, houſe, merchandize, &c. deſired;
the ſeventh houſe and his lord, with the planet to
whom the 1) doth apply, unto the ſeller, &e. And
ifthe lord of the ﬁrﬅ, and lord of the ſeventh be
in 6 , or apply to one another by friendly aſpect ;
or if the lord of the ſeventh be in the ﬁrﬅ, or the
ﬁrﬅ in the ſeventh, the querent ſhall obtain his
deſire.
FIFTH HOUSE.
Of &teﬅ/'ons and Judgment: aþpertaining to it.
If a woman deſire to know whether ſhe ſhall
have children or not, ſee if the lord of the aſcendant
and theDbehold the lord of the ﬁfth; or if any
planet transfer the light oſ the lord of the aſcen
dant to the lord of the ﬁfth; the lord of the
- ﬁfth well poﬁted in the aſcendant or tenth houſe,
ſheweth iſſue. . _ *
If it appears that the querent is with child, and
you would know whether male or female, you are
then to conſider the aſoreſaid ﬁgniﬁcators, whether
' they
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 95
they be in maſculine or feminine ſigns, and by an
exact collection of the major teﬅimonies, you
may pronounce judgment.
Or, by ſome authors, if the lord of the aſcen
dant, the lord of the ﬁfth, and the D be in maſcu
line ſigns, it ſhows a male; in feminine, a female.
Or the lord of the ﬁfth, lord of the hour and the
D, if two of them be in maſculine ſigns, a male;
in feminine, a female.
SlXTH House.
Judgment: of Diſhaﬂr, Es'r.
At the time of the party's falling ſick, obſerve
the aſcendant and lord thereof, the ſixth houſe and
lord thereof, as alſo what houſe and ſign the 1) is
in, together with 'the almuten of the ﬁgure; theſe
ſhall ſignify the diſeaſe, not omitting the guher
nator. The ſeventh houſe and lord thereof, re
preſents the phyſician; the ſirſi: houſe and lord
thereof, the ſick perſon; the tenth houſe and lord
thereof, the nature of the medicine ; if the ſeventh
houſe or lord thereof be aﬄicted, it is an ill omen.
if the. aſcendant be aﬄicted by an infortune, or
he combuſt, peregrine or in quartile, or oppoſition,
tovthe lord of the fourth, ſixth, eighth, or twelfth,
the diſeaſe is in the head, or in thoſe parts of the
body which the planets ſignify in the ſign them
aſcending, as may be known by the table, page 73.
As alſo the nature of the diſeaſe, &e. of which
was I to W-rite fully, it would-make aconſiderable
' ' Volume
96 mmonueronv OBSERVATXONS.
volume, but an intelligent artiﬅ will be able to
judge by the concurring circumﬅances. '
SEVENTH House.
Eut/lions app'rraining to 'be Set/entb Houſe are, Mar
riage, Law-ſuits, Contracts, Fugitiws, T/Jgfts,1{9':.
The artiﬅ gives to the querent, the aſcena
dant and his lord, the D and the planet from which
ſhe doth ſeparate, and theo (in caſes of marriage, '
if it be a man) for ſigniﬁcator; but to the queſited,
the ſeventh houſe and its lord, and the planet to
whom the 1) doth apply, and 2 : then obſerve,
what application there is between the D and the
lord of'the aſcendant, with the lord of the ſeventh,
and thee with 3; for if the aſpect be a * or A, the
marriage ſhall be eﬀected; but a 0 or 8 , the
contra. lfthe lord of the aſcendant or 1) be in the
ſeventh, and the planet from whom the D' did ſe
parate, doth behold the planet to whom the D
doth apply, or the O doth behold 2 , the marriage
is like to come to paſs. With reſpect to her riches,
obſerve the planet in the eighth, and the lord of
the eighth; for if they be Well digniﬁed, and the
X) apply to the lord of the eighth by a good aſpect,
then ſhe is wealthy; and if a woman enquire about
a man, uſe the ſame method, with variation of
perſon, &e.
OF THEFT.
This is rather a diſagreeable and dangerous part
of the ſcience, and therefore, when a queﬅion is
i demanded
INTRODUCTORY OBSE RVATIONS; 97
demanded concerning theft, it is proper to examine
whether the thing be ﬅolen or not, before judg
ment be giVen; as follows : -
If the D be lady of the aſcendant, and in the
fourth, and the lord ofthe ſecond in the ſeventh,
or in the ſign of the eighth, in 8 to the ſecond
houſe, at a * or A to the 1), the thing is not
ﬅolen, but taken away in jeﬅ.
If the D be in the ſeventh, in the ſign of the lord
of the hour, the lord of the hour being lord of the
ſeventh, then are the goods not taken away, but
miﬂaid and overlooked; but if the lord of the
houſe of the I) , ſeparate from any planet, or the
lord of the ſecond do ſeparate from any planet, it
is ﬅolen, and then you may proceed to judgment,
as thus :
The aſcendant ſigniﬁes the querent.
The lord of the ſecond, the thing that is ﬅolen. r
The lord of the ſeventh, the thief.
The fourth houſe, the place where the thing is.
If the ſigniﬁcator of the thief be oriental, and in
few degrees, it denotes youth, &e.
If the ſign aſcending, and the lord of the hour
be both maſculine, it is a man; iſ feminine, a wo
man ;' if one maſculine and one feminine, two
thieves, &ce. But ifI was to write at large on
this ſubject, it would make a conſiderable volume.
N ElGHTI-l
9! INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
EIGHTH Hovsrz.
Of what hind of Death the ﬂaw-ent may die so
In giving judgment of death, you muﬅ rightly
underﬅand what relation the querent hath to the
queſited, whether it be a brother or wiſe he en
quires after; then give the aſcendant and his lord
for the querent; and for the party ſought, the
ſign oſthat houſe he is ſigniﬁed by, the lord there
of, and the D: if you ﬁnd the lord oſ his aſcen
dant in the fourth, or eighth, either from his own
aſcendant or of the ﬁgure, that poſition denotes
death; and if the luminaries are in violent ſigns,
or are aﬄicted by the infortunes, it denotes violent
death.
NINTH HOUSE.
If a queﬅion is deſired concerning ſucceſs in a
journey, or voyage, look to the ninth houſe, iſ it
be ﬅrong, and good planets therein, or aſpected
of good planets, and if the lord of the aſcendant
and tenth be well poſited, it is good; but if you
ﬁnd I; 3 or thesthere, then is the way evil.
The lord of the ninth, with a bad planet, is
had, and no wealth ſhall be obtained by that
voyage; a poſited in the ninth, intimates peril
by pirates; T; there, ſigniﬁes ioſs of goods, or
ſickneſs, the simports the ſame ass, but more
deceitfulneſs.
TENTH
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 99;
TENTH House.
May the Quermt attain 'be Dignity or Oﬃce
deſired .?
The ﬁrﬅ houſe and his lord ſigniﬁes the querent,
the tenth and its lord the place, oﬃce, preſer
ment, command, or the like. If you ﬁnd the
lord of the aſcendant, or the 1) poſited in the tenth,
or the lord of the tenth, or the'O in the aſcendant,
and iſ they behold each other friendly, you may
pronounce the deſire will take eﬀect; and if the
lord of the tenth receive' the lord of the aſcendant,
or the D , by good reception, the matter will give
content and proﬁt.
ELEVENTH House.
If a Queﬅion be demanded, [Whether am' ſhould have
the thing hopedﬂr .? Or ſhall the Qyncm's Friends
be real or not .?
Iſthete be any amicable aſpect between the lord
of the aſcendant and eleventh, or reception, or
tranſlation of light, or the lord of the aſcendant
be in the eleventh, or lord of the eleventh in the
aſcendant ; theſe are good teﬅimonies of obtaining
the thing hap-ed for; if none of theſe are found,
behold the 1) , and if ſhe do not apply to the lord
of the eleventh, the thing hoped for will not be
obtained. '
N 2 TWELFTH
10' INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
TWELFTH House.
A Queﬅion required concerning Emmics.
Suppoſe none is mentioned, behold the lord of
the tWelſth ; but if any be mentioned, then behold
the ſeventh and lord thereof, noting their applica
tion to and with the lord of the aſcendant, of
what aſpect, and out of what houſes; for if the
lord of the twelfth behold the lord of the ﬁrﬅ,
with cJ or 8 out of the eighth, ſixth, or
twelfth; or out of thoſe houſes which have a D
aſpect to the aſcendant, or no aſpect at all, then
there is ſome ſecret enemies that do him miſchief
privately. '
Some choice APHORrSMS, and Ruusﬂr E'an
TlONS, relating to moﬅ UNl)ERTAKINGS.
The 1) increaſing in good aſpect of the O, helps
for journies. '
ln all journies, the greateﬅ impediment ofa pla-'
net is to he peregrine or retrograde.
-It is had in journies to have a' in the third 'or
ninth, but much worſe to have him in the ſecond.
_ The lord of the ninth or third, in the ﬁrﬅ, the
journey will be ſucceſsful; but if ﬅrong and well
aſpected, the better. ' -
In all journies view the 1) , for ſhe is a general
ﬁgniﬁcatrix of journies.
When
lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS; w'
When a ſhip ſets ſail, if I; aſcend in X, the ſhip
will be caﬅ away if a aﬄict him.
Ifyou go to a prince or king, let a ﬁery ſign
aſcend, and let the O be in good aſpect with 11.
or 2 .
Begin no building, the 1) in X or in, having
ſouth latitude deſcending, for if you do, it will.
ſoon fall.
The moﬅ fortunate, time to begin buildings, is
when the D is in ,::':, or when a: aſcends, and the
1) behold it, and the fortunes in good aſpect to
t-he degree aſcending. .
In marriages, the aſcendant ﬅands for the man,
the ſeventh for the woman.
i In which of thoſe parts good planets are, it will
be beﬅ for them.
Let not the I) be combuﬅ on the marriage day,. i
for that ſigniﬁes the death of the man, nor in the
combuﬅ way, for that ſigniﬁes an ill end.
It is very ill in marriages, ifthe 1) apply to I;
or 3 , though the aſpect be never ſo good, for
then there will be neither peace nor love between
them. *
-ln all mar-riages let the I) increaſe in light and
motion, and let her have no ill aſpect to the o,
nor any at all to I? or a . v
2 is the only general ſigniﬁcatrix in marriage,
and therefore it'is beﬅ to let the D apply to her.
If the lord ofthe aſcendant is weak, and the lord
ofthe ſeventh ﬅrong, in the ſeventh, and he a com
manding
xoz INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
manding planet, and in good aſpect of a , ſhe will
wear the breeches, and domin'eer over her 'huſ
band.
I know one who had In aſcending at the time oſ
marriage, and a and 2 in 6 in m, and both com
buﬅ, and in 8 to the D , and it proved a vety un
happy marriage.
Let not Tz or a be in the ſeventh, for that al
ways makes the woman out oſ order, ſſ
Such as go to war ought to conſider of coming
home ſaſe again. '
For this end, let the O, u, L, or 53 be in
the aſcendant, or elſe they may fail of it.
lf b be in the aſcendant, he will come again a
7 coward, ſurprized with fear, and not ﬁght.
If 3' be there, he will either die there, or be
dangerouﬂy wounded.
But iſ I; and a be both there, you may be con
fident he will never return. If in the tenth, he
will be taken priſoner, eſpecially if the lord of the
aſcendant be in the twelfth.
judge of the challenger by the aſcendant, and
ſo vary the houſes accordingly.
But judge of the opponent by the ſeventh, and
ſo vary the houſes as before, i 'the tenth being his
fourth, and the fourth his tenth, &e. -
It is not good to ﬁght when the lord of the aſ
cendant is in the eighth, for then there is danger
of death.
The
INTRODUCT ORY OBSERVATXONS. go)
The aſſailant always loſes the battle, iſ the lord
oſ the aſcendant be an infortune, retrograde, or
combuﬅ.
But if the lord of the ſeventh be ſo, the oppo
nent is beaten.
When the I) , T), and a ſhall be joined toge
ther, there will be great eﬀuſion of blood.
What has been ſaid of two ﬁghting, is as well
applicable to the plaintiﬀ and defendant in a ſuit
of law.
If any one go to the King, &c. let the D be in
the aſcendant, in >k or A to the O in the tenth
houſe.
But if to a Biſhop or Judge, &c. let the D be
joined to 11. by body or good aſpect, or g , if it be
with reception.
If to old men, let the 1) apply to a >k or A to
19 , and from good places of the ﬁgure, the angles
have greateﬅ force.
In managing buſineſs with women, let the d
apply to 2; iſ to mathematicians, accomptants,
or ſcriveners, to Y ; and ſo of the reﬅ.
Some
104. INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS;
Some choice APHORISMS, relating to HORARY
QyI-SSTIONS, 'very uſrful in the judicial Part of
ASTROLOGY, collected from ﬅveral Authors.
t. When you hear news, or elſe in queﬅion-s.
about news, behold the lord oſ the aſcendant, the
aſcendant itſelf, the D , and lord of the hour.
2. If the 23, I; or a be in the aſcendant, or
the lord of the aſcendant with them, it is not true.
3. If u, 2 , or the O be there, not aﬄicted,
it is true enough. i
4. If no planet be in the aſcendant, behold the
ﬁfth houſe; and if any planet be there, judge by -
the former rules. i
5. If no planet be there neither, view the lord
oſ the hour, and ſee whether he be direct or retroq
grade, in what' houſe he is, and to what planet
aſpected, and judge from thence. '
6. If the aſcendant be a moveable ſign, eſpeci-z
ally er, then be ſure it is is falſe, ſaith Ha{y.
7. If the fortunes be in angles, it is like enough
to be true; if the infortunes are there, it is falſe,
unleſs it be bad news, ſor then it is too true.
8. For example, If it belongs to war, blood
ﬂzed or contention, and 6" in angle, it is true.
9. But if 11. be there, it is falſe, becauſe '11 loves
peace.
10. Likec
lNTRQDUC-TORY OBSERVATIONS. so;
>__/1.j L
to. Likewiſe if I; be angular, and the report
he concerning death, impriſonment, or ſickneſs,
it is true, becauſe they are of his own nature.
11. If in queﬅions of war, the lord of the aſ
cendant and lord of the ſeventh be in in a or 8',
ſſno peace is to be hoped for or expected.
12. But if the lord of the aſcendant and ſeventh
be in * or A, a peace may be concluded by treaty,
iſ they treat by ſuch men as are ſigniﬁed by that
planet, who is lord of the ﬁgure.
13. Venus in the ﬁrﬅ degree oſg, at the 6
of the O and Þ , or at any other great 6 , cauſeth
great rains.
i 14. If a queﬅion be demanded when one ſhall
get out of priſon or c-aptivity, behold the aſcendant
its lord, and the Moon. ,
15, The lord of the aſcendant and the D in the
fourth, ſixth, eighth, or twalfth houſes, or in a
ﬁxed ſign combuﬅ of the O, denotes long impri
Jonment.
16. Moveable ſigns haﬅen delivery, ſo doth the
lord of the third in good aſpect to the lord of the
aſcendant or the 1) , or the lord of the aſcendant
in theſſthird ſo qualiﬁed.
17. If I; or a be lords of the twelfth, and aﬄict
the lord of the ﬁrﬅ, from the eighth or ſixth houſe,
he will die in priſon.
18. lfthe 1) is angular, or in the twelfth, or
joined to the lord of the twelfth, he will continue
long in priſon. 7 ſſ
J-A ' O
1.
9
19. But
us MkbbUeTonv oas'eRVATIONsſi
'19. But if the ſigniﬁcators ſeparate from' ill
aſpccts of had "planets, and apply to the O,
2 , or s: with' rectiption, denotes 'ſpeedy 'enlarge-i
*ment. \
20. When a 'perſon comes to demand aqueﬅio'h,
it is poﬃble to know What his thodghts are vctdre
he reveals them. _
21. To this purpoſe, niind where the lord 'of
'the aſcendant is, provided he is 'not "combuﬅ,
retrograde, in his detriment o'r "fall, for 'then you
muﬅ tdke the Þ , and the lord of the hour.
22. For iſ they, or (which is'ﬁ'rOng'eﬅ of them)
be in the ﬁrﬅ houſe, the' q'uerent comes abOu't
ſſ-himſelſ.
23. But if they are in the ſecond, it is abour his'
eﬅate, goods, money, &e. A
'24. If'in the' ﬁrﬅ part of'the third, 'he comes
v'aboutſome ſhort joumey; if in the ſec'o'n'd 'part of
that houſe, about hisbrethren 'or hindred.
25. lf in the ﬁrﬅ part of the fourth, abobt'his
father a'n'd mother, Or ſome ancient body; inthe'
'ſ;cond part aboiit his hotiſe, farm, or ſhip,'eſpecially
if it beav'vatery ſign; in the third part, the end
ror concluſion of ſome buſineſs.
26. In the ﬁrﬅ part of'the ﬁſth, it is of children
o'r ſcholars; in the ſecond part, of joy or play;"
in the 'third part, cloaths or ornamen'ts; in the
'fourth part, reports, letters, books or meſſengers,
to: 'about drinking, 'or men'ment.
i 27. In
LNTRonUCTORY onsaavanons. 107
27. In the ﬂtﬂ: part of the ſixth, of ſickneſs;
the ſecond, of ſervants; and the third, of ſmall
cantle. *
28. In the ﬁrﬅ part of the ſeventh, it is of his
wiſe or ſWeetzheart; the ſecond, of his ſociety; .
the third, of theft or goods loﬅ.
. 29. In the ﬁrﬅ part of the eighth, of death; in
the ſecond part, of dividing inheritances; in the
third, of debts.
30. In the ﬁrſt part of the ninth, of religion or
laws; in the ſecond, of journies or voyages; in
the third, of dreams.
31. In the ﬁrﬅ part of the tenth, of kings; the
ſecond, of honours; and the third, of the queq
rent's mother. '
32. lf in the ﬁrﬅ part oſ the eleventh, of merz
chants or trading; in the ſecond, of riches; and
the third part, of friends. i
33. In the ﬁrﬅ part of the tWelfth, of ene- _
mies; ſecond, captivity or impriſonment; in the
third, of great cattle.
34. If the lord of the. aſcendant be weak or
afﬂicted, then take the D; if the 1) be weak,
aﬄicted, or not in a ſign of her own ſex, then
take the lord of the hour.
35. There are two ſigniﬁcators ſpecially in queſ
tions; ﬁrﬅ, the planet, which the lord of the aſ.
cendant is ſeparated from; ſecondly, the planet
the D is ſeparated from.
O 2 36. The
10: INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
36. The general ſigniﬁcator is the planet which
hath moﬅ dignities in the aſcendant, or in the '6
or 8 of the o and 1) , iſ it was near at hand; or
in the 6 of lz and 11, iſ that was newly paﬅ.
37. Figures oſ Horary queﬅions, are either true
or falſe, according to the intent oſ the querent.
38. Love and hate cauſe error in judgment; the
one magniﬁes triﬂes, and the other depreſſes
matters of moment.'
39 Theſe Aphoriſms, iſrightly underﬅood and
managed, diſcover the whole myﬅery of reſolving
i all manner of queﬅions.
_l ready
lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. i'oz
A ready way of camþuting 'be PLANETS Plates,ſram
an old Almanack (an Ephrmerisj from their 't
ſþectiw þeriodt, asfollow .*
The period of Saturn is 59 years
Jupiter - - 83 and 1 day
Mars - - 79
Venus - - 8
Mercury - - 79
The Moon - 54
Aſhorter but not ſo } 18," 134 71, 49
near the truth
I ſhall however produce one of the D , Within
the compaſs of twelve years, that comes nearer
the truth, than either of the above data. Suppoſe
1786. 17'27
59 years added
1786 for T; .
&7672er premeris. White-'s premerir.
1727. 1786.
T) in r: T) in at
January I, 5o 15' January 12, 6o 8'
- 22 5 22 13, 6 15
3, 5 29 _' 14, 6 22
4' 5 36 15' 6 29
s, 5 43 16- 6 36
6, 5 50 17, 6 43
ſiN. B. The lzth of January is equal to the ﬁrﬅ,
on account of the new ﬅyle intervening.
no '_
W'ing, 1704. IV/aite, 1787. 55.
'Min 3. v ﬂiu 3. *"
- January 1, 11" 2' January 13, no 22
7 2, 11 3' * ' 14, 11 21
3, 11 5 15, 11D21
4, II 7 _ 16, 11 21
5, 11 9 - 17, 11 21
6, 11 12 18, u 21
Wing, 1707. White, 1786.
a in 3. a in s. a
January I, 25o 54' January 12, 28o 26' '
2, 26- 4 13, 28D16
- 3, 26 15 14, 28 16
4, 26 26 15, 28 17
5, 26 38 16, 28 19
6, 26 51 17, 28 23
Wite, 1779. t. White, 1787.
2 in w- 2 in 100- _ .
January I, 20o 5' i January 1, 160 18' 5 i
2' 198230 2' &53239' ' l
3, I8 55 3, 15 1
4>18 I9 4, 14 24
5' 17 5, 1'4- 48'
6' 17 6 6: I3 13
m'rnoouc'ronY OBSERVATIONS,
lying.
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. lll
White, 1787. ſ
I in I andrkfa o
Wing, 1707.
y in he.
January r, 15" 32' January 12, 290126'
22 14 32 1'3' OUZS
32 I3 3®_ _ 14, 1 28
4- 12 29 -* 15, 2 34
5, 11 35 16- 3 42
6, II 49 17, 4 52
Before I proceed to the computation of the
Moon's place, it is requiſite to obſerve, that the
ſigns-are numbered for the greater eaſe of calcula
tion, as thus,
o r ' 2 3 4
m s n 05 s', ' X
Suppoſe l want the NIoon's place for the ye;"
1787, I look imo anxAlmanack 'of tWelve years
back, and from the ﬁrﬅ of January, I deduct 57.
days, which brings it to the 27rh of FCbIU-lſy, on
Which day'rhe D is in 1
los 5o 32' in 1775 A;
to which 4 1 8
-----[1ﬅ ofJan. r787.
2 6 40 the D'splaceomhe
as-apþears'nearly 2 6 43
__.__
567
"Rent
3 diﬀerence only.
_-_.
r
'
.'Ln
1775
112. lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
1775 _
Feb. 28th the D in
add
March I
add
March 2
add
LMarch 3
add
March 4
add
I787
los 20® 23' Jan. 2, 2s no 36'
4 1 8 '
2 21 31
n' 5011' Jan. 3, 3'6025'
4 1 8
3619
11' 19050' Jan. 4, 3'210 5'
4 1 8
3 20 58
0s 4011'
4 I 8
4 5 I9 Jan- 55 4s 5023'
-__
o' 18011'
4 1 8
4 19 19 Jan. 6, 4' 19028'
_
BY
tNTRODUCToRY,_ onsmvurom. nz
By this method, proceeding day by day, you
ſſmay compute all the-planets placegyery nearly, and
ſiﬃﬃcient for common purpoſes, 'to give the young
Aﬅronomer an idea of the motions of the hea
venly bo_dies., Bynthis method, of; computation,
you 'may go through a whole year's requiſites of
an Almanack in 'about two day's time; but was
"you to go through all the equations, With Meyer's
tables, it would take up a perſon a whole year's
Ttime.* I "L" _ſ 't .
He PLANETS 'man diﬅance; from the EARTH in
Engliſh miles.
Diameters in miles.
X Spl, 95 million of miles, 883,Io_o
7' Luna, ſſ 240 thouſand miles, 2,r62
Mercury, 93 million of miles, 3,224 '
Venus, '95 million of miles, 7,598
Mars, ſſ 1145 million of miles, 5,23'o
Jupiter, 494. million of miles, 79,287
Saturn, 906 million of miles, 79,o76_
The Earth's diameter, 7,92_t
Saturn's ring, 184,496
'* Theſe cycles were found among the papers of the late MſrSA.
MUZL CLARKE, well known among mathematicians, for his ſeyeral
(publicationa and his reviewing the mathematic part of the critical
Review, and Town and Country Magazine; till his inﬁrmities ren
dered him incapable, for about a year before his death. K
P Term:
t' m-T]
"ſi if L,
w, ekwwqu iﬂ
TERMS 'ÞFYA'RTL
Whemwknndcrwb'ﬄ
ARTIST.
w
'ACCIDENTS-Fniean the moﬅ remarkable.
chances that happen in a man's life-i
'Jchnical-belonginctg to the evening, A
EﬂjvaI-bdonging to the ſummer. ct
ﬂgagbpdmſithegiver of life.
y'izllmtgſir-ldrd of the ﬁgure.
' Jlaarcta-eahotter oﬀ. i
'ſinimodai-to rectiſy nativities.
preta-the giver of life. ſi
. MUJH general rule.
'v Applicatiam-of planets three
Firﬅ, when a planet ſwift i_n_ motion applies to
one that is more ﬂow, they being djz'ect;
this is called direct application. '
- Secondly,
XNTRQDUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 'I 3
Secondly. When they are both retrograde 3 this
is deemed an ill application.
Thirdly. When one is direct in motion, and the
other retrograde; this is no good application, but:
not ſo bad as the laﬅ; this is called a retrograde ap
plication.
Aﬅendant-to ariſe-the angle of the eaﬅ.
Vdſhng/ional dﬀrencþis the diﬀerence between
the right and oblique aſcenſion or dsſcenﬁon.
dſþect-to behold.
dzz'mne-lame or weak. ct
1' ſiBﬃeging-is when a planet is between the bee
dies ofu and J .
Cadent-falling or weak. .
Cardinalpoims-the angles of the rﬁ, 4th, 7tb,
and loth houſes.
(Cardinalſigm- er, s, d, U.
V 'Cazimi-is when a planet is within ſixteen miq
mites of O's centre, in longitude and ſi lade
tude. n'ill? / "7- '
ſ Circlu of poſition-eare great circles of the ſphere
paﬃng by the interſection of the horizon and me:- v
ridian, and through any degree of the ecliptic or
centre of a ﬅar.
Civil day-24. hours. _
Cmbu/iian-a planet is ſaid to be combuﬅ, burnt,
or ſcorched, when he is not 80 30' diﬅant, either.
before or after the O.
r Cammandingſigm-are the ﬁrﬅ ſix.
&J'Zdrhﬄl raw', ' Common
I
us m'r'nonuc-ronv onsznvmrons:
Commonſigns-ﬁ, "I, I , X.
CaſmicaI-ﬅars that riſe with the O .
Cuvlni'm Cle-the higheﬅ point in the heavens
that a ﬅar can riſe to. A
' Cqſp-the beginning or ﬁrſt point oſ a houſe.
Daily mation-the progreſs a planet makes in
twenty-four hours. * i .
Debilizies-certain aﬀections of the planets,
whereby they are weakened. ' '
Demnate-is one third oſ a ſign or 109.
y/ Declz'natz'an of a planet-is his diﬅance North or
South from the equinox.
Decumlziturc-the moment when-a diſeaſe invades
a perſon. i i i i i
Detrimmtv-ioſs or damage.
act Dexter aſpect-towards the right hand.
ſi Digit-a Izth part of the (hameter of the Q
r * or I) . i '
'ſ'ſU-HW " 'Dignities-advantages whereby a planet's virtue
' "33 U 'ſi'7iis increaſed.
Dragonſ: Head and Dragon's Tail-two oppoſite
points where the ctl)'-s orbit cuts the ecliptic.
TDyſisqſithe ſeventh houſe. ſſ i
Elangation-a planet's greateﬅ diﬅance from
the o. - '
Emerſian-the coming forth or out of dark
neſs. ' , -
EnncaticaI-every ninth year or day.
Fpact
INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. It 1
Eþact-the D's age the beginning of the
year.
premgris-a diary or day book.
Epicycle-a little circle whoſe centre is in the
circumſerence of a greater.
- Eporba-ea root or beginning.
Erect a ﬁgure-is to divide the twelve houſes
aright, &ce. -
FacÞ-the third part of a ſign, oſſr ten degrees.
Fiery Triplicity-ſee page 12.
Flux and Reﬂux-ſiebbing and ﬂowing of the_
ſea. i
Fz'xed Signs-thee page 13.
Fortitudes-inﬁuences of the planets made
ﬅronger by being well poſited-.
Fortuna-the two benevolent ones are '411.A
'and L .
V'ſſFru/Imtion-is to be underﬅood, when a light
planet applies to the aſpect of another more pon
derous, and before that aſpect is accompliſhed,
the ponderous one meets with the aſpect of ſome
other. i
Frm'tful Signs-are as, m, and X.
Geniture-the moment of time an inſant is
brought into the world.
Harary Queﬅizm-a queſtion aſked at a certain
hour.
Haiz
nK' lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATXONS.
V Haiz-When a maſculine and diurnal planet 'itſ
the day is above the earth _ / _
V Horaſcope- the utmoﬅ bounds of a thing/if? ſij.
Hyleg-the giver of life."
Hypageon-under the earth.
Imum Coeli-the bottom of Heaven, or the
fourth houſe.
v'Increq/z'ng in Light-is when a planet is departing
from the o. .
Irﬀortums-h and 3 .
Ingnſs-an entrance upon or going into.
Joy: qf the planets-certain dignities happening
to them. '
Julian Year-ſo called from being calculated and
rectiﬁed by Julius Czſar.
Knot on 'be Log-line-a diﬅance of ﬁfty feet.
Latitude.-a planet's diﬅance either North or
South from the ecliptic; in geography, the diſ-'
tance of the equator from the point right me:
head.
Light gf Time-'is the 0 in the day, and the
A) in the night. _
Light-a planet is ſaid to be light, when his
motion is quicker than that he is compared
with. '
" Or a feminine nocturnal planet in the night time under the
earth.
Longitudc
INTROPUCTORY . OBSERVAT10NS. '19
ſlougitude of a Plane: or Star-is its diﬅance
from T; but in geography, the diﬅance from the
ﬁrﬅ- meridian.
Lard of the Near-is that planet that has moﬅ
fortitude in a revolutional ﬁgure.
Lord (ſ the Geniture-is that planet that has
greateﬅ ﬅrength at a perſon's nativity.
Lard, qf the Hour-the planet that governs the
twelfth part of the day or night.
Maſculine Planet: or Signs--ſee the account of
them, page 13.
-Matmine-belonging to the morning.
Mdium Ca-li-mid heaven, the tenth houſe or
angle of the ſouth.
Movealzle Signs-are an, E, A, ly.
Male Signs-are se, m, X.
Natural Day-the ſpace of twenty-four hours.
Natural. Year-is 365 days and almoﬅ ſix
hours.
Nativity-the true time of any perſon's birth.
Necks-ſignify the Dragon's head 53 'and tail 23 .
Northern Signs-the ﬁrﬅ ſix are called ſo.
Obeying Signs-are the ſix laﬅ ſigns.
. ,l*'\0bligue ziſcmﬁon-is that degree and minute of
the equinoctial which riſes with the center of the
o, 1) , &e.
v v Oblique Dtﬅmſion-is that part of the equinoc
tial which ſers with the center of the O , &c.
Occidental
no xNTRovuc-ronir OBSERVATXONS.
'\ Occidental-belonging to the Weﬅ, the' ſevbnth
houſe is called the Weﬅ Angle in Aﬅrology; and
is deſcriptive of a planets riſing afterth'e Sun;
Otcultatian-a hiding from our ſight.
,/ Oriental-belonging to the eaﬅ ; the ﬁrﬅ houſe is
called the Eaﬅ angle in aﬅrology; and diﬅinguiſhes
a planet riſing before the Sun. 1 -
Olympiads-a ſpace of four years, by the
Greeks. - _
3 Oppoſition-is when two planets Are diﬅant 180
degrees. M_ A 403 . 404.
t/Pcregrinatian-is When a p ane't is poſited in a'
ſign wherein he hath no eſſential dignities, neither
houſe, exaltation, triplicity, term, or face; as a
ﬅranger, or one out of authority \d 'o
' \Pole ofPtﬃtim-the pole of the world above the
circle of poſition of any ﬅar or planet.
Primary Planets-are b, It, and a;
Primum Moþile-is the tenth ſphere. .
r Probibizion-is when one planet is applying to'
the (5 of another; and before this is accompliſhed,
another planet conjoins the former, and ſo a. pro
hibition is formed. Vol. .. ﬂou- my. >
Promilarr-to promiſe orſi engage to bring
ſomewhat to paſs.
Proragatar of/ife-the ſame as Hyleg. _
Planctu-an enquiter, or one that demands a '
queﬅion.
Qmﬃteddl
_,' ' 4 0
lNTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. m 1 ,
_ &waſhed-the party or thing enquired after.
I/ Reception-is when they are in each others digniw'ſi-ſiuy ﬄﬄ-Za
ties, whether in houſe, exaltation, triplicity, term,
or face. v Yf: 14?" I
Reﬂection-a redoubling of an action. \
Refractz'm-a- breaking back or again. _ _
V Rcfranatian-is only this ,one_/ pl net applies to;
the aſpect of another, an 'B"ef<;k$'Ze'beE®5iii£s®i'e:®
trogade. A
Rectiﬂ a Nativizy-is to bring the eﬅimate time
to the true.
VRetragade-is when a planet apparently moves
backwards in the Zodiac.
\ſi (Right Aﬅenſion-is the degree of the equinoctial
accounted from the beginning of er.
s/ſiSeparatian-when two planets have been in 6 or
partile aſpect, the lighter is going out of half their
orhs. s/Zv VZOV /4V
a Sim'ﬅer dſpect-towards the leſt hand.
Slow z'n Motion-is when a planet's diurnal mo
tion is more than the mean motion. v
Succcdcnt Houſex-are the Ilth, ad, 5th, and
the 8th. v -
7 ' Sun Bcams-a planet is accounted under the
' Sun beams till he be ſeparated 17 degrees from
him.
l/Swz'ﬁ in Caurﬅ-is when a planet moves more
than his mean motion in 24 liom's-'ſſand ﬂow in
motion when he moves leſs., ſſ l . (iſ
Wax/May,- art-ſmom/ w. m _ 1- _ * * *
ſi ' - Q/ Trarz/Iamn
I
m 'NTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS.
Þ/Tm'zﬂation-is whena light planet ſeparates from
a ponderous one, and immediately applies to ano
ther, ſuperior; and ſo tranﬂates the nature of the
former to the latter. .\ſint:l\c Aſ.
Vrſpertinc-when a planet ſets after the Sun.
Violent Signs- -are M, A, m, w, z.
. \.\Void of courﬁ-is when one body ſeparate: from
the body or aſpect of another, and applies to no
other whilﬅ he is in that ſignſ/ﬁlſhj I.
Waicb-a ſea phraſe, four hours.
Watry Triplicity-are 5, m, and X.
ASTRONOMY
ASTRONOMY
AND
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY,
TRANSLATED FROM THK LATIN OF
PLACIDUS DE TITUS.
PART r._
ARGUMENTS drawnfram the PHILOSOPHY qf the
HEAVENS. ſſ
rﬅ. T is impoſſible for the eﬃcient heavenly
cauſes, (as being ſo very far diﬅant from
things below) to inﬂuence ſublunary bodies, un_I
leſs by ſome middle inﬅrumental virtue, by which
they are united to bodies, ſubjected, or ſimple, or
both. There can be no action in the ſubject, which
is not aﬀected by ſome active virtue: for the eﬀect
might be produced in the ſubject, without any ef
ﬁcient cauſe, which is the reaſon, we ſay, that the
'inﬅrumentalcauſe of the ﬅars is light, and that
this only is ſuﬃcient to produce all the four pri*
Q 2 mary
124. ASTRONOMY AND
mary qualities; by which they arrive at the whole
_ ſpecies of 'natural eﬀects; by motion the ﬅars apply
this light, and we reject a ſecret inﬂuence as ſuperﬂu
ous; nay, even impoſſible. ,
2. The chief properties of the light of the ﬅars
are two, (viz.) intenſion and extention, the leſs
principal colours, which the very ſenſes ſhew are
found in the ﬅars; nor is it to be concluded from
thence that the ﬅars are corruptible, at leaﬅ, with
regard to the whole, for the ﬅrange phenomena,
which very frequently appear to us, demonﬅrate
that there are changes in the heavens; for colours
may be found in incorruptible bodies: in ſhort,
nothing is viſible unleſs it have a colour. The other
properties in the ﬅars are ﬁgures, local diſpoſition,
brightneſs, and dimneſs; local motion is a kind
lof paſſion wherewith they apply, increaſe and di
miniſh their light, riſe, ſet, and recede, near and at
diﬅance.
3. The ﬅarsneither act nor ſuﬀer alternately in
the heavens; they only receive light from the ſun,
which alteration they communicate to us from the
proper colour of each ofthem: but they vary their'
actions in the inferior ſubjects, in proportion as they
i act together with equalharmony ; and this is ſuﬃ-A
cient for the whole diﬀerence of eﬀects. ,
4. Though the ﬅars, by their motion in the hea
Vens, alternately change their conﬅitutions, and
have a determinate degree of intenſion, and a deﬁ
nite quantity of extenﬁon of their light, they do
not
ELEMBNTARY PHILOSOPHY. is;
not act upon thoſe inſei'iors, aceording to the true
and real intenſion and extenſion of that light
which they have in common, but only according to
the apparent ;in reſpect of which they join thoſe
paſſable bodies : ſor this reaſon, the ſtars act upon
the ſublunaries only according to that degree of in
tenſion, and quality of extenſion ofþlight, by which
they are united to the ﬅars, as from things ſub
jected ;the leſs are intenſion and extention; but their
action is the ſame, with reſpect to that extenſion
to which they are oppoſite ; aswe very plainly ex
perience in the 1) . They inﬂuence according to the
ﬁruation and paraholaſe to the paſſuble ſubject. Invi
ſihle eclipſes have no inﬂuence or ſurpriſmg pheno
mena; they act only upon thoſe provinces in
which they are ſeen : ſo thﬁt the ﬅars, where they
do not riſe, are inactive.
5. The ﬅars are indeed the univerſal cauſe, and
indeterminate, as to their ſpeciﬁc and individual eſ
ſects; but are determined according to the variety
oſ the paſſable ſubjects and neareﬅ cauſes: as the
o melts wax, drys up the mud, whitens it,
blackensthe human ſkin, with man produces man,
a lion with a lion, &e.
6. The ﬅars cannot be the ſigns of eﬀects, iſthey
are not alſo the cauſes; wherefore interrogations,
in the manner oſ the ancients, have no place in na
ture, unleſs perhaps in eminent eﬀects, inwhich they
move the approximate cauſe oſ natural eﬀects;
they alſo move the parts, organs and members oſ the
, ' paſſable
,zs A s T K o N o at'v A N D
paſſahle ſubject in the ſcetus; they reſpect the pa
tents, ſex, number, ﬁgure, &e. The preſent ﬅate of
the planets approaches to the actual eﬀect, according
to a pre-ordinate and pre-exiﬅent power, and there
fore they are the cauſe or con-cauſe, not barely
ſigns, but the conﬅellations, which for the preſent
bring their eﬀects to act, are the ſame as the cauſes
oſ pre-ordinarion ;and ſo oſ death, &c. For unlike
cauſes cannot 'Drink to act the diﬃmulas pro-exiﬅ
ing, according to the power of the eﬀects.
7. And ſince, to diﬅinguiſh and know the eﬀects
oſ any ﬅar, it is neceſſary to know the diﬀerence,
nature and order oſ thoſe eﬀects, according to the
ſonndeﬅ philoſophy; after laying down the ﬁrﬅ
principle oſall'things, Matter, and ſubﬅantial, from
the primary and compound qualities, We diﬅin
guiſh all theſe into two principal kinds, viz. into
the paﬃve or feminine, and the actiVe or maſcu
line. To the ﬁrﬅ ſort, we again call in matter
and quantity, or quality, ſo ſar as it is paﬃve,
with all the other qualities which are derived from
its moiﬅure, dryneſs, rarity, deuſxty, lightneſs, &e.
For the maſculine ſort, ſubﬅantial and material;
from ſmell, ſound, the active virtue of the com
pound, &c.
8. Vr'e call commixion a union oſ altered miſci
bles, but we add, perfected by the eﬃcient of the
ſuperiors, Order and Nature, that is, by a celeﬁial
quality, on which the connection oſ thoſe miſcibles
depends; whence the compounds, which have a
' larger
i
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. tz7
larger and more perfect connection with the miſci
bles, and conſequently a more intenſe celeﬅial
quality, are more perfect; ſuch as have a leſs, the
contrary.
. 9. The virtue of the compound, or the qualities,
which, indeed, with reſpect to the great number,
variety, and eﬀects, deſerve our admiration, we do
not call elementary; nor proceeding from the ele
ments, but celeﬅial qualities, which are altogether
derived from the heavenly light; wherefore, the
elemeutary celeﬅial qualities are of diﬀerent kinds :
and though the ﬅars may produce elementary
qualities in their alternate tranſmutation, they ﬅill
produce others more excellent, whereby they attain
the production of the whole ſpecies of the com
pounds.
IO. The vital heat and radical moiﬅure in ani
mals, we agree with Ariﬅotle in terming qua
lities entirely celeﬅial, produced from the nature
of O and D , with the concurrence (which cannot
be denied) of all the other ﬅars, from which a diſ
tinction is made of ſo many diﬀerent compounds,
though of a nature oppoſite to i each other, that
the Iuminarier, with the maliﬂcs, generate the poi
ſonous, or the hoﬅile, inﬅead of thoſe that engen
der with the benign, and on the contrary; whence
the antipathies and ſympathies of things are mutu
ally derived.
'11. The qualities, both of the compounds and
elements, are at ﬁrﬅ powerful, at leaﬅ, according
' to
us ASTRONOMY ano
to nature; then active: but thoſe that are active
have their exiﬁenCC by the motion of the ſucceſſive
being; ſor they ſucceﬃvely come forth to action
from their powerful ﬅations: for which reaſon they
are again reﬅored to their co-natural ﬅate of actual
qualities.
12. From the vital heat and radical moiﬅure of
the animal power, ariſe ſenſitives, appetitives, dejec
tives, relentives, and each as its exerciſe and ac
tion; wherefore thoſe powers have ﬁrﬅ a powerful,
then an active exiſience.
13. Thoſe qualities are extinguiſhed in a two
fold manner, naturally and violently. Firﬅ, by a
ﬁnal aſſumption of a pre-exiﬅing power in an ex
treme old age; ſecondly, by a violent extinction,
exhihited by a diﬀerent concurrent cauſe.
14. The powers employ their inﬂuence on mat
ter, ſuitable to every one of them ; the ſenſitive on
objects, the vegetativeon elements ; which,the more
perfect they are by the concoction oſ mixture, the "
greater and quicker is their nouriſhment; for it is
converted with greater care and perfection, into the.
ſubﬅance of the animal, &c.
15. There are four principal colours, viz. white,
black, light, and darkneſs; by light, we do not mean
that which is diſſuſerl from the O and from ﬁre,
but that colour which ariſes from the intenſion of
that light, which is almoﬅ like gold; by darkneſs,
its prevention. But there are Colours, ſome celeﬅial,
which are compoſed of heavenly qualities, others
elementary
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY- 129
'elem'entary of theſe elements; but equal POﬃblll
ties ﬂow from their alternate permixion; white is a
colour merely paﬃve, light an active.
. 16. The ﬅars, though they never ceaſe from ac
tion, and cauſing an alteration in things below, yet
from that change they produce no remarkable ef<
fect, eXcept in familiarities. We call the familiarity
of the luminaries meeting with power, proportio
nal by an inﬂux motion. Under the name of lu
minaries, we underﬅand not only all the ſtars, but
likewiſe uncommon phenomena; and We exclude
every other place in the heavens which is void of
light, for it is b-y light only the ﬅars inﬂuence, as
hath been ſaid before. By the power of the con
juncts, We exclude from the familiarities thoſe ﬅars
which cannot, by any means, he conjoined together;
'but it is plain that the familiars have not their
beingin the heavens, but in the inferior paſſ-able
ſubject. 3
17. Authors treat of the various and diﬀerent
diﬅinctions of the celeﬅial houſes, whereof we
only approve of 2that which Ptolemy places byvthe
two temporal houſes : we reject all'the reﬅ as vain,
and quite inconſiﬅent with nature.
1-8. The ſigns and houſes have a real diﬅinction,
not in the heavens, but in the inferior paſſable ſub
ject, according to its manner of receiving the in
ﬂux of the ﬅars; the ſigns likewiſe have a true and
certain ſex, but uniform and maſculine, by an in
ﬂux, proportioned' to the places where the active
R quality
'30 ASTRONOMYiAND
quality commences; feminine where the paﬃve,
which we ſhall mention hereafter. I
19. From the intenſion of the light, proceeds
an active quality; from its extenﬁon, a paſiive;
in ſhort, every natural principle of an active
virtue, has its birth from the intention of light;
but the principle of a paﬃve virtue, from extenﬁon.
For this reaſon, the ſubﬅantial material, Form, and
and all the qualities active in kind, are referred to
Sol; but to the Moon, that principle, NIatter, and
all its qualities, paﬃve in kind.
Hence it is manifeﬅ, that the Sun has an active
virtue, by reaſon of the intenſion of his light;
but the Moon, a paﬃve, by reaſon of extenſion,
though, in reality, there is intenﬁon and extenſion
in both; but in the Sun, iritenſion is prevalent, and
in the Moon intenſion is inconﬁderable, and ex
tenſion prevails; and as by the intreaſe and de
creaſe, it ſhews us the various quantity of its
- light in things, it augments and diminiſhes matter
and moiﬅure,
20. The variety of colours in the ﬅars produce
a diverſity of eﬀects. Thus the colour of the lumi-r
naries-Oor of gold, is poſſeſſed of an activevirtue,
the ſame as the intenſion of light, for it proceeds
from the intenſion of light ; and, as it were,
from the approximate cauſe. White poſſeſſes a
paſſlve virtue, as does extenſion; but theſe two
primary colours relate to eﬀects of a'ﬁmple nature
which are excellent; ſuch as material ſnbﬅances,
&c. The other colours in the ﬅars, are the cauſe
of
ELEMENTARY PHlLOSOPHY 13!
of ſpeciﬁc qualities; ſo the blue and yellow, ſuch
as are in 1.', and 2', which are a mixture of white
and gold, give ſigns of a temperate nature between
heat and cold, or moiﬅure; in the blue, heat is
predominant; in theyellow, moiﬅure; and therefore
theſe two planets conſer that which is good, uſex
ful, and pleaſant : the former is maſculine, by rea
ſon of the too great heat; the latter, feminine,
owing to exceſs of moiﬅure. Leaden and ﬁery
colours, ſuch as are in I; and 3 , ſhew an intempe- i
rature, cold and dry in I; , hot and dry in a; 'Fy
is rather cold than dry, and therefore maſculine ;
a more dry then hot, and therefore eﬀeminate.
21. But in general, eﬀects, according to their
nature, proPerty, paﬃons, motions, &c. imitate
their cauſe; for the manner of acting follows that
of being. As the work of Saturn is unpleaſant,
rigid, cold, dark, and black, his motion ﬂow,
&e. nay, more, from the paﬃons of the luminary
which proceed from local motion, follow paﬃon
in the eﬀects; as from acceſs and receſs, follows .
the acceſs and receſs of the paﬃon; and eﬀects
from its near and diﬅant ſituation; the near and
remote action is derived from its inception; the
beginning of the action from continuity; from its
increaſe, the increaſe. _
22. From the acceſs, and near ſituationofthe ﬅars,
follOWS the increaſe of the luminaries, with regard
to extenſion; and from the increaſe reſpecting ex
tcnſion, follows a ﬅill greater intenſion of the lumi
R 2 nary,
13. ASTRONOMY AND
nary, according to the degree, at leaﬅ in the ef
fect. From the increaſe of the luminary, with
regard to extenſion, follows an increaſe of mOiſq
ture: from a greater increaſe of the luminary, fol
lows a greater heat; and ſo ln every one of them.
Ariﬅotle's Second General Treatiſe, page 56, in
his reſearches into the cauſe of the perpetuity of
the riſe and fall of things, informs us, that not
only one inference may aﬃgn the cauſe of this riſe
and fall, but alſo that which contains diﬀerent
motions, to which the cauſe accede and recede,
are near or diﬅant in their conﬅitution; and their
acceſs, and near ſituation, is the cauſe of genera
tion; then'receſh and diﬅant ſituaﬂon, of cor
ruption.
23. There is a formation of four c'onjugations
of the manner of ﬅarry inﬂuence, viz. in the lu
lminary's increaſe and near ſituation; in its near
ſituation, decreaſe, and diﬅance; and in its diﬅance
and increaſe. By theſe conjugations are con
ﬅituted four quarters; Firﬅ, in the world, which
are the circuits of the ﬅars by day from Eaﬅ to
South, from South to W'eﬅ, from VVeﬅ to the
loweﬅ, and from the loweﬅ to the Eaﬅ. Secondly,
in the Zodiac, and the annual ſeaſons, from w' to
25, from to -'_\_-, from a. to Ice, from lo? to or.
24. There are four retroſpects of the pla
iwtstotheSun; ﬁonitheapogeeoftheepkycb,
towardsthe ﬁrﬅ ﬅadon Unthe D towardsthe ſh
'cond decatorn); from the ﬁrﬅ ﬅation to the pere
gee;
I
ELEMENTARY PHlLOSOPHY- '33
gee; from thence to the ſecond ﬅation (in the D
towards the ſecond decatom), at leaﬅ, as far as the
apogee. From theſe are derived an excellent reaſon,
why the three ſuperiors are ſuppoſed to be ﬅronger;
if they are to be matutine or ezzflern, from the O;
the three inferiors veſpertine, or weﬅern; for then
they have a greater degree of light, in which con
ſiﬅs their virtual influence, and then they are cal
led eaﬅern; but weﬅern, ifotherwiſe. Every one
knOWS how largely, yet, to no purpoſe, authors
have treated of the orientality of the planets.
25. From the cardinal points of the world, and
the Zodiac, the ﬅars begin to inﬂuence the four
primary qualities; from the moﬅ inferior and tro-'
pic of as, moiﬅure; from the Eaﬅ and m, heat;
from the culminate and tropic of Ice, dryneſs; from
the Weﬅ and A, coldneſs ; but by all theſe means,
the ﬅars, though they have their nature ahſolute
in themſelves, they nevertheleſs produce all the
four primary qualities, though with a diﬀerence,
on account of the diverſity of the nature oſ the
ﬅars; but they continually increaſe the qualities
they produce, by advancing ſuccrzﬃvely to the op
poſite points ; ſuch is the reaſon they likewiſe leſ
ſen the contrary quality. i \
26. From theſe, it is inferred, that thelinﬅux
and rays of the ﬅars, depend on real motion and
illumination, not on the quantity of the heavenly
ſpace, nor the ſituation, and therefore the ﬅars in
the
33, ASTRONOMY AND
the falling houſes are weak; in the ſucceeding,
ﬅrong; in the cardinals, ﬅrongeﬅ, &c.
27. All the active qualities, whether of the e]e-_
ments, or of the compounds, depend on the ho
rary extent of the ﬅars round the world ; but bez
cauſe the duration of things are various, annual,
monthly, and diurnal, with which Ptolemy agrees
in his Chapter of Things that have no Nouriſhment,
and the Second Stagyrite and GeneralTreatiſe, page
5, they are diurnal, as being the ﬁrﬅ and immediate
in the order of the work ; for in the order of per-_
fection they are the loweﬅ, and the annual dura
tions are in the ﬁrﬅ place, by reaſon of their per
fection. '
.ſi 28. The virtual qualities ſſof the elements depend
on the latitudes of the ﬅars in the Zodiac. The
vital qualities of ſuch as live through months and
years, depend on the Sun's place in the Zodiac, and
' the Moon, in reſpect of the Sun, as from preſent
cauſes, but are pie-ordained by the Sun's bearing
round the world, and by the Moon round the Sun:
whence the motions of the directions and progreſ
ſions are derived. ſſ '
29. The diſſerencns of the celeﬅial qualities that
he in the compounds, are both vital; and thoſe that
are not dependant on the various congreſiions and
ſamiliarities of the luminaries, with the other ﬅar,
both erratic and fixed; on the diﬀerent places in
the Zodiac, ſo far as they are ofa diﬀerent nature;
for from the ſimple places, both in the Zodiac, as
- _ well
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOÞHY. 1'35
'well as round the world; that is, (if they are thus
conſidered) the primary qualities of the elements
are derived. '
30. The true moment of the-day, on which any
one is horn, laying aſide all opinions of authors,
is when the foctns becomes indepcmlent._ On its
finitimate cauſe, or its miniﬅry, an immediate inﬁuxſi
takes place. At the conﬁitution of the celeﬅial mo
ment, there is no need of its longer perſeverance,
to make the eﬀects the cauſe of preſervation; for
this is impoſſible; but it is ſuﬃcient that it'concur
with the neareſt cauſes', to confer being, and the.
co-natural qualities: for ſo it is, that he who is
ſſborn, throughout his whole life has a reference to,
and, as it were, repreſents the eﬀects; and as a
'ﬅamp reſembles the ſeal, ſo does the conﬅitution
of the ﬅars his nativity.
31. The ﬅars inſert their power in an animal,
and the virtual qualities in certain latitudes of a
'ihorter time: theſe they pre-ordain with effect.
The accidents naturally active, operate at their
appointed times to the concluſion of life, and be
gin at the moment of'the nativity; but they are
the latitudes of (lays and months, and pre-ordain
ſucceﬃvely, therefore orderly, and in_co-operaſi
tion; and they are ready to act at the time pre
ordained, when the favourable conﬅitutions are the
ſame as their cauſes of pre-ordination; for diſſimu
lar preſent cauſes cannot produce any eﬀect but
what agrees with them.
' 32. In
1'35 ASTRONOWMY AND
32. In the conﬅitution of the ﬅars, the nativi
ties are ſaid to continue immoveable, as well as the
figuiﬁcators and promittors of eﬀects ; and this
only, by reaſon of the retroſpect of that nativity's
temperament to thoſe places t" for while the ﬅars
concur with the neareﬅ cauſes in conferring exiﬅ
ance, they imprint on that animal ſo many degrees
of their qualities, as they eﬀect from thoſe places
in which they are found; and therefore that ani
mal is oppoſite all its life to the places of the ﬅars
of its nativity, as being always immoveable.
'33. But as there is a double motion ofthe ﬅars,
that is, under the primum mobile, and round the
world, by which, as we have ſaid, they inﬂuence,
we muﬅ conſequently ſuppoſe, that the ſigniﬁca
tors rule over things ſubjected to them by this two
fold (or double) motion, to wit, under the primam
mabzſik, and round the world. - So in the former
moderation, the ſigniﬁcators remain immoveable in,
the world, i. e. in their horary circles of poſition ;
the latter are in a ﬅate of immobility in the places
immediately under the primum mabilc ; the pro
mittors in the former. dominar remain immove
able under theprimum moluſile, but are moved with
their parts of the Zodiac, to the horaryſſ circle of
poſition of the ſame ﬁgniticator. ln the latter mo
deration, they remain immoveable in the world,
that is, in the horary circle of poſition, but are
moved in a manner immediately under the primam
mobi{e,
,£LEMBNTARY PHILosoPHY. 13'7"
nobile, to the moderator's place taken underthr
primam mabilc. . - i ' r
34. We ſay that the ſigniﬁcntors continue im-t
moveable in their mundane ſituation. By mun
dane ſituation we mean the hornry circle, i. e. (ac-2
cording to Ptolemy) of unequal hours, no: the?
circles of poſition whichpnſs through the common'
ſections of the horizon and meridian, as will appear:
more fully hereafter. .Likewiſe,. when we ſay that
the ﬁgniﬁcators in the former moderation 'remain
immoveable, in ſuch a ﬁtuation, we do not exclude
the change of declination ; we mean that the'
moderators ſhould always continue and advance by
their own real. and natural way; as if we ſpeak of'
the Sun in the ecliptic, or the Moon in her circle,
conﬅituting the DragOn, in which ſhe is in perpe-
t-ualmotion, and in which ſhe ſucceﬃvely alters-her
L'ltitude. -
- 35. The Sun, when it is found in the ſpace of the
crepluſc-ules, before riſing and after ſetting, does not,
remain there immoveable under the horary circle;
but in the crepuſculines, parallel to the horizon, in'
which it always aﬀords us the ſame degree of the:
intenſionof light, from which equality of the in
tenﬁon of light, it is ſaid to continue immoveable;
for if it ſhould, with regard to us? p in the degree of
the intenſion oflight, it could not be ſaid to remain
immove'able, but would be in a ﬅate of motion. In
the remaining ſpace of ohſcurity, the Sun muﬅ be
directed, with a reference from the limits of th'
crepuſcles to the loweﬅ, as if we ſhould ſay, from
ct ' S ' the
'33 AITRONOMY AND
ſitheproportionable diviſion ofthe obſcure ar'cs, there
were ſeminocturnal arcs. This will be more fully
ſhevvn hereafter. _
36. Moderators ofthings are ﬁve, viz. the. Sun,
the Moon, MediumCeli, HoroſcopeoftheCohntry,
'nd the Lunar Horoſcope; every one of theſe ſo
modemtes its own proper ſpecies of things, that it
enunot attain to that which relates to the other: it
is. necdſary to obſerve this, that we fill not into,
error and confuſion.
37. The-Aphetic places of the World, or thoſe
'herein are received the moderator' of life, are
ﬁve, viz. the Houſe ofthe Eaﬅ, thetenth, theninth,
the ſeventh, and eleventh; in any one of which
the Son being found, always become: the modera
tor of life; but if he is abſent, the Moon, &e. ac
cording to the doctrine delivered by Ptolemy in his
third book, which we ought to follow ſo rigorouﬂy,
a'hſol'utely, and without the leaﬅ 'exception what
eVer, that, whoever, by neglecting the lumina'ries,
if i'n the Apheti'c plaCES, ſhould receive the horo
ﬁcope of the moderatOrs of life; would be guilty of
'at-very great error, and Would be unworthy. df the
'name of a profeſſor of the true and' natural'
Aﬅrology.
'M
Post'rzons ﬂam- tb': Secorm Boox.
r 33; There are two motions of the ﬂat',
whereby 'they inﬂuence th'ofe inſerion, that is,
r i ' - ' r 'under
ILIMINTARY PHXLOSOPHY. ty,
under the primam mabile, and round the world;
hut familiarity is nothing more than a proportional
inﬂux, exhibited by the motion, as has been ſaid.
It neceſſarily follows, that there are two kinds of
familiarities ofthe ﬅars ; the one under the Zodiac,
the other round the world: theſe two kinds of
familiarities are delivered by Ptolomy in ſeveral,
places; ﬁrﬅ, in the Almageﬅ, Book viii. chap.
4. in theſe words: '
5' lt remains now to write of 'their aſpects : 'of
W theſe, therefore, (excepting thoſe that haire a
9' mutual formation, and are thought immoveable,
'4 as when in a right line or triangular aſpect, and
ﬂ others qf the like) ſome are aſpected to the
6' planets only, and the Sun and the Moon, and
9' parts of the Zodlac; ſome only to the Earth;
'i ſome to the Earth, together with the planets and
'5 the Sun and Moon, or parts of the Zodiac,"&c.
From which words, it is evident, thatſiPtolomy
places theſe two kinds of familiarity, viz. in 'the
Zodiac, and towards the Earth, that is, towards
the world. i
In the andripartite, in the beginning oſctf the
ﬁrſt book, lie ſpeaks thus: " There is one which
'3 is ﬁrﬅ, both in place and power, whereby We
ſ' diſcover the conﬁgurations of the Sun 'and
a "Moon, and motions of the ﬅars, both towards
i 4! themſelves dnd the earth,"&c. Again,boolt ﬁrſt,
'ſ The ﬅars are ſaid to appear in their 'proper
V forms, &e. when every one of them are con
S 2ſi a 'ﬁgurated
m _ 'ASTRONOMY Am) .,
" ﬁgurated with the Sun, or even the Moon, in
F' the ſame manner as their houſes are with thoſe
f' of the luminaries. as Venus in 'the Sexangular,
"1 conﬁgurated with the luminaries, but the Veſ
'7 pertine with the Sun," &c. Venus never has the
7 'as to theo in the Zodiac, as it can only be extended
'by it 480; wherefore, unleſs any one will ſay that
_Pt_olomy was ignorant of this, (which is abſurd)
he muﬅ of courſe ſay, he ſpoke of the Sextile
in the world. 'Likewiſe,_in the third book, of
yApheticplaces, he ſays, " As we are ﬁrﬅ to ſup
" poſe thoſe Aphetic places, in which it is abſo
'Z' lutely neceſſary to ﬁnd that which is deſirous, i
f' obtain thejuriſdiction of preſiding over life, as
i " tonnd the Horoſcope, from the ﬁve parts ﬁrﬅ
F' immerging above the horizon, to. the other
ſi." twenty-ﬁve ſucceeding; and that which con
"ljoins theſe thirtyþparts withdexter hexagonal
F rays, is called the place of the Good Genius,
f* Likewiſe with quadrangular, or the higheﬅ part
L" of heaven above the earth; and with trigonal, &c.
3' and from no other places." It is evident,
Ptolemy was of this opinion. > '
._ 39,1Thefamiliarity in the Zodiac, is, the .pro-_
portionable_.inﬂux of- the ﬅars by local motion,I
whereby they are able to effect a favourable con
junction. That theſe familiarities happen and are.
powerful only among the ﬅars, which are there
in motion, but are pOWerful to the cardinals and
reﬅof the houſes, we abſolutely deny; for omitting
other reaſons, the ﬅars move not to the c'ardinals,
. _ _ _ by.
a
ELIMENTARY antosopnv. 44:
by advancing above the Zodiac; which is the
Jealbn they do not eﬀect any proportional diﬅance:
.to thoſe cardinals, but the rays are no more than
.pro.p0rtional diﬅances, &e.
4 40.. The. familiarities of the ﬅars in the world
is a proportionale inﬂux of the ﬅars, agreeable to
motion round the world; and they happen, and are
eﬃcacious in the preportional diviſion of the diur
nal and nocturnal arcs, and no other way.
44. But becauſe the ﬅars have a mutual motion
under the primam mabile, and round the world, it
happens that they mutually contract both kinds of
,familiarity; as Ptolomy in the place already cited
inſinuates. But ſamiliarities, taken in any other
manner, and in any' other circle, even in the
equator, (according to the opinion of Maginus) are
entirely reprobated, and to be rejected.
42. Theſe two kinds oſ ſamilarities being given,
we ſay, that. in every kind, neither more or leſs
then nine ſpecies are found, Which are 6 , * ,Q, g
.A, Sqq, Bq, 8, and parallels called by ſome Anti
ſcions, which Keple'r, by an exquiſite and plain
reaſon, has ſelected from their concording harmo
nies. Oſtheſe familiarities, the Sex-tile, Qiintile,
Trine, and Biquintile, are benign; the andrate,
Seſquiquadrate, "and Oppoſition malign; the reﬅ
indiﬀerent with the fortunate ﬅars, and equally
ſo with the.unſortunate.
. 43. The latitudinal ﬅars do not commit all
their vi-rtual inﬂuence to the ecliptic, but preſerve
'. 1 It
'm asraonouv a-NÞ
it among themſelves; and their greater or leſſe'
proximity to the ecliptic, adds not, nor leſſons.
their power of acting : the ecliptic cannot act withv
out the ﬅars, but the ﬅars have their activity in
themſelves wholly independent on the ecliptic.
44. The ﬅars alternately eonjoined, do not ae
quire greater or leſſer powers to act in a ſavour
able conjunction, which falls out when another is
found within the ſphere of the other's activity,
from a greater or leſs alternate proximity; but we
only ſay, that their active virtues are the more or
leſs conjoined. Under the name of the Sphere of
Activity, we underﬅand thoſe that Ptolemy has
placed, in Jupiter twelve degtees, in Venus eight
degrees, &to.
45. But the ﬅars which are found in the fame
partial longitude, we do not call conjoined in a fay
vourable conjunction, iſ their alternate diﬁance be
greater by latitude, than is their ſphere of activity;
as' 2 with 8o of ſouth latitude, is not ſavours
ably conjoined with 4, having a northern la-z
titude, though they are ſound in the ſame degree
and minute of longitude ; they may indeed be ſaid
to be conjoined by virtual conjunction, if they
nſcend or deſcend in the ſame horary circle; or car
dinal, which is one of the ſpecies of mundane
aſpects. - _
46. The ﬅars therefore ſhould not be cardinally
placed; nor even thoſe that are ﬁxed with the
other planets, if the latitude diﬅance from the cir,
cles
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. m
cles of poſition be greater than their ſphere of arc-
t-ivity; nor ought any diﬀerence to be made bc
tween the aſpects of the natural conﬅitution, and
thoſe produced by the motion of direction in pre
ſcrving the latitude, as Argol thinks, there being
equal reaſon in both caſes.
47. In deﬁning the intermediate rays, the half
latitude in ale and A is not to be obſerved, nor re
jected in quartile, as Blanolinus has taught, whom
ſome author-s imitate: but the latitude of both aſ
pect: are to be obſerved; for the rays. are to be
projected from the body of one to that of another,
as it happens that theſe ﬅars are found by latitude;
ſo that in whatever latitude the planets are, they
emit and receive the rays in proportional diﬅances,
taken with regard to longitude; as the * in the
diﬅance of 609, the a in 90, ac. We would
have this always obſerved, both in the daily mo
tions of the planets, as in the directions and proe
greﬃons, wherein the ﬁgniﬁca-tors advance by their
'own real and natural Way, on which they receive
and emit the aſpect-[stand in all the motions of the
ﬅars.
48. The ﬁxed ﬅars that are in a favourable
conjunction with the planets, eﬀect with them:
the other aſpects in the primam maþilc, which
otherwiſe have no eﬀect. The ſame muﬅ be
ſuppoſed of their number and mundane aſpects.
49. The
'44 ASTRONOMY AND
- 49. The rays in their kinds, from the brevitf
or longitude of the aſcenſion of the ſigns," do not"
alter their nature from the fortunate to the' un-i
fortunate, or the contrary, as its generally ſuppoſed'
by adthors; yet it- may be, that the quadmte in" '
i _ the Zodiac, is either/Aor- *in the world, or the;
contrary: but then every done has its eﬀect ac
cording to its nature in both kinds, or it may be,>
they altemately moderate each other; but if theſe
rays be found by the' favourable ﬅar-s, they doubt-"
leſs produce happineſs; if by the unfortunate,
otherwiſe. ' -
50. That which is vulgar-ly termed antiſcions,
we call parallels in the primam mobile; becauſe we'
would have them to be nothing elſe but parallel:
to the equator, as Ptolomy hints, as they
iiſe at an equal ſpace of time, and deſcribe the
fame parallels, for which reaſon, called the an
tiſcion, or parallel. The primam mabzſile isſi equi
diﬅant from the equator; and ifit be of the ſame
country, it is called the primary parallel, or Op-'
poſite; if of a diﬀerent country, the Northcom;
mands, the South obeys; and they are taken fromI
the table of declination, but parallel-in its phyſical
ſenſe, in an equal power of the inﬂuence of'the
ﬁars from the primam mobile. _
'- 51. The twelve houſes or manſions in heayen,
authors divide ſeveral ways, but they all diſagree.
ſiRejecting the opinion of them all, we, with
Ptolomy, diﬅinguiſh them by the temporal houſes;
ſi for
BLEMENTARY PHXLOSOPHY. [45
for_ſo it is, that there is proportional and equal
diviſion, not, indeed of the heavenly and aerial
_ſpace, but of the ſuCCeﬃve inﬂux of the ﬅars and
houſes; and Munitun ſays, appear equal and pro
'portionah But it is our opinion, that the diviſion
of the houſes, 'by great circles paﬃng through the
common ſection's of the horizon and meridian,
and the twelve equal diviſions of the equator,
which late authors make uſe of, is of all, the moﬅ
nimate from, and abh'orrent to natural truth.
32. As many kinds of aſpects as are found in
the prz'mum mabi/e, of which mention is already
inade; Aſo many, we ſay, are ſound in the world.
Wherefore, ſibeſids the uſual ray, we likewiſe place
in World the parallels, which are in equal
þowers ofthe inﬂux of the ﬅars round the world.
53. Several reſemblances are found between the
mundane paralle'ls, and thoſe in the primum ma
In'le. (I.) The eﬃcacy of the aſpects in both," con
ſiﬅs in the parity or equal power, and powers of
the active virtue. As in the primum
mabilc, they riepreſent the ſame quantity of the
aſcenſion of the ſiſigns: for example, the ſigns X
adder, al'ſonan'd zaaſcend at the ſame time; with
ſo much likeneſs do they exhibit the ſame quality
of aſcenſion and deſcenſion in the world, that the
eleventh houſe cauſes an aſcenſion equal to the
deſcenſion of the ninth, and the twelfth houſe equal
to the ſecond, &e. (3.) As the parallels in the
T primam
1'4'5 ASTRONOM'Y AND
prihmm mobi/e are equi-d'iﬅant from the cair-z
dinal points of the Zodiac, ſo are the cardinal
points of the world. As in the primam
mobilc, they exhibit equal temporal hours, ſo in
the world they exhibit the equal temporal hours
of the diﬅances from the cardinals. The
Parallels in the priinum moln'le, are at an equal
diﬅance from the pole of the world; the parallela
in the World have the ſame pole as elevation;
and other reſemblances, if required, will be
found.
54. The eﬃcacy of all the parallels, both in the
primum mobile, and in the world, conſiﬅs in the
parity of the degree of quality, which the ﬅars
ſound in the eﬀect of the parallels; as it is plainly
gathered from thoſe which we mentioned in ſect;
25; for by going through intenſion, and returning
through remiſſion, from the cardinal points, it
happens, that they eﬀect an equal degree oſquality,
as well under the primam mobi/c, as round the
world.
55. As for the riſt/es qf poſition in which the
ﬁgniﬁcators are ſaid to remain immOveable, and
upon which they are to be directed, and their
oblique aſcenſion to be taken, thoſe great circles
paſſing through the common ſections of the horizon
and meridian, according to late authors, cannot be
received; for this opinion is Openly inconſxﬅent
with the precepts of Ptolemy; but thoſe ſeats or
parts,
ELEMENTARY PHtLOSQPHY. m
parts of the circle are to be received, in which the
ﬁars having a diﬀerent declination, eﬀect equal
temporal hours. From what has been ſaid, this
concluſion is drawn, and agrees with the diviſions
of the houſes, through the two temporal hours,
and with the mundane rays. For this reaſon, we
call ſuch a ſeat theþoraryſituation ofpoſition. i
i 56. The dignity of the planets in the ſigns and
their parts, which are called the bounds and termi
nations, have a real and natural foundation; to
wit, the powerful aſpect or inﬂuxes, prOportional
to the moveable points in which the ﬅars begin to
produce the primary qualities. So that, according
'to thoſe things, we haveexPlained, in the Philoſo
vphy of the Heavens,ltheſe are 'found to agree ſo well
'with the Egyptian boundaries, that they are highly
deſerving of admiration.
ARGUMENTS oftbe PHlLOSOPHY gftbe Heaven,
from BOOK I__lI.
57. To ſpeak phyſically, the ﬅars are moved but
by one motion, which is of the primam moþila, viz.
from Eaﬅ to Weﬅ; but for the eaſier explaining
Aﬅronomical matters, we ſay in a ſimpler language,
that the ﬅars are moved by a double motion; of
which frequent mention has already been made;
nay, more, we ſay there are many motions in
T 2 the
14' " ASTRONOMY ANO
the heavens, by which the ﬅars change their
aſpects wizh reſpect to us. ſi i
58. The motion of direction is that which the
Sun cauſes every day, following that of the nati
. vity, in whatever latitude, in power 'and virtue;
the vital heat with itsinatural, eﬀects, viz. from
every day to every year' by Order: for it happens,
that at the end oſ the ﬁrﬅ, after the natural day,
when the Sun has returned to the ſame equal hour
of the nativity, the parts of the priinum mobile,
with all the ﬅars, have nearly gone through one
degree of the equator; and the ſame happens every
ſubſequent day : mean while the ﬅars,'as they ad
vance, apply either by body or rays, to theihouſes
of the ſigniﬁcators.
59. There is a doub'e motion of direction. The
direct, which Ptolomy calls Actinabalium, and tells
us is formed toward the following ſigns, and the
cant/evſg, which he terms Horinimny, andſſſheﬂws us it
is firmed towards the preceding places.
60. By the third l'hotion of direction, we direct
the angles and all the moderators; but by a con
verſe motion, the angles cannot be directed.
61. The arr__les only receive the rays in the
world, but nor the parellels, nor the rays in the
Zodiac. The other ﬁgniﬁcacttors, by a dll ect motion,
receive the. rays' and parallels ihoth in the Zodiac
and in the world; bu'tſiby a converſe motion, the
rays only, and parellels in the world, and by no
means in the Zo'diac. ſſ ſi
0 62. By
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY.- '49
. 62. By a converſe direction, the ſigniﬁcator, if
he deſcends from the top, ﬅrikes againﬅ the weﬅ;
and. all the rays that be between the ﬁgniﬁcators,
weﬅ; yet the rays are to be taken in the world;
for in a converſe direction, the rays have no place
in the Zodiac, as has been ſaid, but the hoﬅile rays
of the malignant that lie between, either cut oﬀ,
or take away the years from the number of direc-v
tion to the weﬅ; as on the contrary, the rays ofthe
benign, either preſerve or add the year, according
to PtolomyTS method, which we ſhall treat upon
in the Canons.
63. It alſo happens, when the ﬁgniﬁcator and
promittor are hurried away together, by the mo
tion of the primam mobile, in order to pro'duce
parallels in the world-equally powerful with all
the other aſpects. r
64. In a direct direction, the ﬁgniﬁcators ad
vance by their own real way; as the Sun by the
ecliptic, the Moon by her circle, upon which
ſucceﬃvely ſhe alters her latitude, in proportion
to her latitude motion. The ſame is to be ſaid of
all, when they become ſigniﬁcators. _
65. Authors are divided, as to meaſure in di_
rection; for fometake the whole degree ofthe equa
tor, ſor'all and every one of the years; others,
the Sun's m'otion'of the natural day: ſome, the
Sun's mean motion; whilﬅ many more vary in
their computations. But we, tothe ﬁrﬅ year after
the.
15' ASTRONOMY AND
the natural, add that part of the equator in which
the Sun aſcends in a direct ſphere, by the motion
of the ﬁrﬅ day following the nativity;to the ſecond
year, that which aſcends by the ſecond day's mo
tion; to the third, that which he aſcends the third
day after the natural; and thus of the other ſub-z
ſequent ones: for we would have the directional
motion ſucceﬃve, and always formed towards the
ſucceeding places, and the Sun's motion each day
to be referred to, as the courſe and rule to every
year, as to their eﬀects, in the ſame order and
number. i
66. But becauſe the p'rimary and principal mo
tion of direction is derived from the motion of the
ſolar days, following that of the nativity, as has
been ſaid, it conſequently happens, that by ſome
ſecondary means, the aſpects that are oppoſite to
the l-uminaries and angles on thoſe days, by jointly
aﬃﬅing the ﬁgniﬁcator of the primary directions;
for this reaſon, we ſay, that the days whereon
theſe aſpects happen, are very powerful in thoſe
years, which 'anſwer to thoſe days, and on which
they depend; From thoſe motions, in preference
to the reﬅ, appears the true and real, hitherto,
unknown foundation of the critical or climactrical
years; for the Moon, almoﬅ every ſeventh day, is
N placed in the critical plate with reſpect to her place
of the nativity; and (which is very important)
experience wonderfully proves the truth of it;
as
ELEMENTARY PHXLOSOPHY. rst
as may be ſeen in the examples extracted from Ar
gol and Maginus. We 'call theſe motions the
ſecondary directions, to diﬅinguiſh them from the
primary and principal ; and we are of opinion,
that Ptolemy, ſpeaking of annual places, as the
places of thoſe motions, when of the menﬅrual,
hints at the places of the progreﬃon.
67. The equal and uniform progreſſions which
are commonly made uſe of, are thought to be falſe;
for there appears no reaſon or foundation to ſup
port them; nay, all the proſeſſors with one voice
aﬃrm, they do not correſpond with the eﬀects.
Wherefore, becauſe we think the motions take their
riſe from the Moon's circuit towards the Sun, by
which it pre-ordains in power and virtue, the ra
dical moiﬅure with its co-eﬀects; ſo in like man
ner the motion of the direction originates from the
Sun, by which it pre-ordains the vital heat;
therefore the progreſſional motions are cauſed by
the Moon in her circuits towards the Sun; aan
returns to the ſame appearance, illuminations, or_
diﬅance with the Sun; conſequently every one ofi - 7
' the circuits, after the iiatſihzity, has a reference andL
(reſpect to, as the cauſe of all the years oſlife, OF
whoever is born, and the Moon's progreſs, through
all the ſigns, almoﬅ every month.
'68. I'n the univerſal daily latitude, the ﬅars are
continually troubling things of an inferior and ma
terial nature; but they produce ſurprizing eﬀects, \ X
when they arrive at the places of the moderators:
and
_.-._
15- . ASTRONOMY AND
and iſ 'they be radical, they are called natural trans
ſits. But at the places of the directions and pro
greﬃons; they are called ingrrﬃr ; for then, if the
conﬅellations of thoſe motions be ſimilar to the
conﬅitutions of the nativity, or the directions or
"progreﬃons, they force to action the [ire-'ordained
eﬀects; for in this, and no other manner, the ﬂars"
act upon inferior objects; that is, according as they
ﬁnd the next in power. '
69. Of the ingreſſron ſome are active, others
paﬃve; the active are cauſed by the ﬅars, Which
have an occaſion oſ virtue, when 'they enter the
places ofthe directions 'and moderators of the pro;
greﬃons; for then they act upon the moderators.
The paſſrve are produced by the univerſal modera
tors in the whole wbrld, viz. by the O , I) , angles,
and Part oſ Fortune, when they enter upon the
places of the directions and progreſſions oſ the
ﬅars, whatever they are, which have an Active
virtue: hilt the active-ingreſſes, if they be ſimilar
to the pre-ordained eﬀects, cauſe them to inﬂuence ;
iſ diﬃmular, they either diminiſh or retard, as
Ptolomey has it in the laﬅ chapter of Book lV.
The paſſive ingreſſes adminiﬅer nouriſhment to the
cooling and preſerving the vital heat, and refreſhes
the radical rnoiﬅure.
- 70. In like manner the tranſits; ſome are active,
others paﬃve: and hence it is evident how power<
ful are the accidental aſpects of the luminaries, and
cardinal ſigns at their ſetting; and at other times
of
ELEMEN'TAlLY PH'LLOSOPHY. 15"J
of the natural a'ccidents, ariſing from thoſe fortu
nate-or unfortunate ﬅars, both of the nativity and
of the place of the direction and progreﬃon; agree
able to which, as has been ſaid, we are to reaſon;
the ſame on uncommon phenomena: for from the
extenſion and intenſion of light, from the colour,
diuturnity, apparition, ſituation, either in the
world, or among the images of the ﬅarry orb, and
other paﬃons, are gatheer their eﬀects, and the
providences under their influence. The uncom
mon phenomena that are found in the nativities,
experience has already ſhewn; the wonders they
have wrought chieﬂy, as to the powers oſ the
underﬅanding, inventions, the performing of buſi
neſs, &c. And remember, Reader, that art, or the
human underﬅanding, according to its ability and
induﬅry, is capable of changing, increaſing, dimi
niſhing, and pen'erting, any inﬂuxes whatever of
the ﬅars; eſpecially if the eﬀects are conſidered,
which the power of man is capable of attaining;
andtherefore, they who are poſſeſſed of a more
ſubtle and acute underﬅanding, proceed to greater
things then thoſe of duller capacities: but they
who are entirely negligent, attain to nothing.
This doctrine is univerſal, and ſhews the manner
the ﬅars act upon all inferiors whatever, whether
they be ſimple or compound, &c. And ﬁnally,
it is requiſite this doctrine of the ﬅars ſhould be
attentively obſerved, not only in nativities, but
U alſo
154. ASTRONOMY AND
alſo the ſettings. The more particular reaſons of
this doctrine may be ſeen in the Philoſophy of
the Heavens.
1
How to UNDERSTAND the NUMBERS ofzbe
PLACES of the STARs.
For greater diﬅinction and perſpicuity, I have
divided the continuation of the rules into four.
parts. l
The ﬁrﬅ contains the calculation of the places
of the ﬅars, in order to know their conﬅitution
under the primam mo'bile; for longitude and lati
tude with the ſituation of each 'of them in the
wor , and the diﬅance from the cardinal ſirrns
.\\\\ I 'N 2 . b
an\l houſes, the right and oblique aſcenſion, the
horary times, the ſemi-diurnaſil and nocturnal arcs,
and many things of this kind. '
Secondly. Conſiﬅs of methods, to compute the
directions of the ſigniﬁcator to the aſpects in ctthe
Zodiac, and primum mobi/e. ,
r Thirdly. The calculations of the directions, t-b
the aſpect received in the World.
_ Fourthly. The obſervations and precepts of the
progreſſions, ingreſſes, tranſits, &e.
But, becauſe all the tables conﬁne their numbers
to the whole degree, both oflatitude and'longitude,
as often as the given place is in the degree and
minutes, either by length or breadth, the propor
tional
LLLMENTARY PH1LOSOPHY._ 15;
fional part correſponding with thoſe minutes, is to
be taken with the given place, both beyond the
degree; concerning which, in the ﬁrﬅ Canon or
rule, where a method is explained for young be
ginners; and alſo, in the Canon of the uſe oſ the
vSexagenary tables, that it might be ſought in vain
whenever it hLLppens that the proportional part
is to be taken; it is therefore to be obſerved, that
1 the method is always the ſame as in the ﬁrﬅ and
fourteenth Canon, conſequently, it is ever, and on
all occaſions, to be looked to and preſerved.
CANON I.
'To take the Derlination of the Planets from the De<
_ clination qfſi 'be Longitude, in 'be Eclzptic..zwl4#.
The table of declinations, contains ſix ſigns in
the ﬁrﬅ part, and ſix in the laﬅ; thoſe under the
leſt columns have the degree of longitude deſcend
i'ng, but thoſe on the right, aſcending: it is divided
into two parts, viz. into north and ſouth latitude,
the degree oſ which latitudes are ſeen under their
denominations. It is likewiſe divided by the in
termediate ſcale, into north and ſouth declination ;
that in the former place, i. e. above the ſchle, is
placed below the ſcale of the ſouthern. Iſ the gi
ven place, whoſe declination you want to know has
'no latitude, ſeek for that under the column of la
tſſitude do, Which is in the ecliptic; and if it be in
the integral parts, in a, 24" o', under the column
of 00, over againﬅ 31, 240, you will have the de
' . i U 2 clination '
xzs ASTRONOMY AND
clination 13' 34': but if the given place be in the
parts and minutes, ſuppoſe in 24,o 10' ofa, the pro
portional part belonging to the Io' muﬅ be taken
from the diﬀerence, which is 24o between the de
clination, and 25® of 51; the declination of24®of$zis
130 34.', But 2le gives 13" 14' declination : the dif
ference between the two declinations is 20, where
fore, by the golden rule, I ſay, if the intcgral part,
i. e. 60 gives 20, what will to give P Anſwer,
3', taken from the declination 13O 34.', which is
facing 24o ofa; becauſe the declination is leſs, (but
if it ſhould he increaſed it ought to be added) and
there remains for the declination of 24," to'of 51,
130 31'; but if the given place has a latitude, and
is in the integral degrees both for longitude and la
titude, at one view you will have its declination;
viz. in the angle. Suppoſe then the given place
24' ofa with 20 north in the commonangle, you.
will have the declination '50 27'. But if it be ac
cording to longitude in degrees and minutes,and for
latitude in the integral degree, the proportional
part is to he taken from the diﬀerence of the decli
nation of the greater and leſſer degree oflongitude,
between which is the given minute, under the co
lumn of the ſaid latitude.
Let the place be in 24" to' of 51, with 2" north,
under the column north, with 20 for the longi
tude 24." o', the deciination is 15o 27'; and for the
longitnde 2500', under the ﬂame column, is found
'70 7'; the diﬀerence of thoſe declinations is nd',
from
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY- 137
from which the too 3" is ſubﬅracted, as before. If
the given place be through longitude in the inte
gral degree, and latitude in the degrees and mi
nutes, the proportional part muﬅ be taken from
the diﬀerence of the declination oſ the greater and
leſſer degree of latitude, between which is the given
minute, and to the ſame longitude; that if the
given place be 24." oſSL, with the latitude northern
9.o 51', under the lntitue 29, the declination is 15"
27'; under the latitude 30, the declination is 16"
24', and the diﬀerence is 57'A; from which, for the
51',will be ſound by the golden rule to give 48'to be
added, becauſe the declination is increaſed by lati
tude.
and latitude in degrees and minutes, as in the na
tivity of Sebaſlian, King of Portugal, the Moon's
place,according to longitude, asw in 24.0 10' ol'ſisL,with
20 5'1' north, the proziortional part muﬅ be taken
doubly; wherefore, ſubﬅracting the 3' from 15"
27', there remains 15" 24'; but by adding the 48',
To.
take the proportional part, you have the lOgiﬅicnl
logarithms, or ſexegenary table: its uſe is ſhown
in the fourteenth Canon, though the golden rule
may likewiſe ſerve; but this method oſcalculating
is to be rightly underﬁood; for in all the tables it
Laﬅly, if the given place be by*longitude
there remains the Moon's declination If)0 12'.
Would be too tedious always' to repeat'it. ln the
ſcale which divides the northern declination ſrom
the ſouthern, care ſhould be taken as often as it
happens to paſs through the ſcale, lfrom one part
to
'55 ASTRONOMY'_AND
to the other, either into longitude or latitude, to
have the declination conjoined; and there will be
a very great diﬀerence; from which, ſubﬅracting
the proportional part, iſ- it be leſs than the decli
nation oſ the former angle which belongs to the in-'
tegral degrees, either the longitude or latitude is to
he taken from the declination of that angle, and
there will remain the declination of the fame deno
mination; but if, on the contrary, the propor
tional part taken he greater,- the former muﬅ be'
taken from the latter, and the remaining declina
tion changes the denomination. t
Let the Moon be in 9o 10' of A, with 40 north,
I add the 6' to the 18', and the diﬀerence is 24'-;
from which, to the Io', 4' is due: theſe, as they
are leſs than 6ſiſſ, I ſubilract from the 6', and there'
remains the declination 2' north. Suppoſe the
hloon in 9o 40' of-_o_, from the diﬀerence for the
40', 16' is due; which, as they are more than 6', [i
take (ſ from the Y6', and there remains the iVloon's *
declination 00 10' ſouth; but if the Moon 'in this
caſe ſhould have 40 30' north, l add 18' to the 384,
which are under 4 and 5, and the diﬀerence is
56.; from which, for the so', 28' are due: from
theſe, as they are more than IQ', l ſuhﬅmct the
to', and there remains the dechnationoo 18' north.
Again, ifthey are fewer, ſuppoſe 5', I ſhould take
theſe 5' from to', and the declination is OO 5' ſouth.
The given declination is brought back to the degree
in the ecliptic in this manner; however, if it be not
' greater
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY rsq
greater than 23" 32'; for otherwiſe it would fall
out of the ecliplic, under the column of latitude'
Oo o', that is, of the declination of the ecliptic.
Let the given declination be ſought for, and above
the ſcale oſ the northern; but below, iſ ſouthern;
but if it ſhould be found even to its minutes, the
degree of the ſigns in the ecliptic correſponding
with it, are thoſe which are placed oppoſite on- both
ſides; but if the minutes of the given declination
are not expreſſed, the pr0portional part is to be
taken, inﬅead of the minutes that are wanting to
be added or ſubﬅracted from the degree in the
ecliptic, &c. in this manner :-Let the ſouth decli
nation be 7o 28' under the ſcale, and invthe column
of latitude 00, I ﬁnd it oppoſite to 19o of A, or
in 1 1c> of X, therefore it anſwers to theſe degrees.
In the nativity of Sehaﬅ-ian, King of Portugal, the
declination of b is 7o 47', which is not expreſſed
in the table; but I take the next leſs, 7o 28', then
the next greater is 7o 51'; the diﬀerence of theſe is
23': the declination of I; exceeds the leſs by 19'. I
then aſk, if the whole diﬀerence oſ 23' give 60' of
l'ongitude, how many Will 19' give? Anſwer 50',
which are to be added to the 19o oſ A; ſo that b 's
declination correſponds with 19O 50' of a, or with
too Io' oſ X : the ſame happens iſ the proportional
part be taken diﬀerently; for the next greater de
clination exceeds b's declinati'rm by 4', for which
the proportional part is Io', which are added-trothe
Soo of
'60 ASTRONOMY AND
80o oſx, or the 200 of a, from the place of the
ecliptic, as before.
\ CANON II.
" i > The dj/chſianal Oﬀa-eme. Tﬄ/Za .
In the ﬁrﬅ part of the aſcenſional diﬀerence,
look for'the Pole's elevation oſ the country, and
in the ﬁrﬅ colume the declination of the place;
which, if it be with the integral degrees, the aſcen
ſional diﬀerence required is placed in the common
angle; but if the! declination be with the degrees
'and minutes, then take the proportional part, as
in Canon I. If the given declination be 12, at
the Pole's elevation 420, the aſcenſional diﬀerence
is placed in the common angle, I 1o 2' ; but if the de
clination he given [20 25', the aſcenſional diﬀerence
at declination 13, is 12; wherefore the diﬀereF-Ce
between the former is 58', from which 24' is due,
i. e." to he taken; in their room, 25' to be added,
and the aſcenlional diﬀerence becomes no 26.
dzzczbcr way.-Iſ you have already by you the ta
bles oſ oblique aſcenſion of the given place, and
the right aſcenſion, ſubﬅract the leſs from the
greater, and the Qemainder is the aſcenſional diſ
lſierence. In like inanner, if you have already the
ſemi-diurnal or no'cturnal arc, ſubﬁract from the
900, if it be leſs; iſgreater, ſuhſh'act therefrom the
goo, and the remainder is the aſcenſion-al diſ
ference.
> ſſCANoN
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY- 16]
ſ CANON lIl. ſhe! 75
iThe ſemi-diurnal or nocturnalſſ arcs are thus
obtained; the ſcmi-diurnal in degrees and minutes,
by_,,addin the aſcenſional diﬀerence to 90; when a
.._, ","I
ſtar-in thelix northern ſignszby ſubﬅracting'þgo,
When in the ſouthern, Weary. The ſemi
nocturnal, is ſound by ſubliracting the aſcenſional
diﬀerente from 900, when a ﬅar declines to the
north; by adding to 90, when to the ſouth; for ei
ther the remainder ſums will be the ſcmi-noctutnal
or diurnal arc in degrees and minutes.ſſ lf the de
Clination above given, viz. 12o 95'he northern, 'the
ſemi-diurnal arc will become 101® 26', by' adding
the aſcenſional diﬀerence no 26' to 90: iſ the de
clination be ſouth, the ſemi-nocturnal will be the
ſame; iſ the declination be north, and ſubſiract
from 90, there will remain the l'ezni-nocturnal arc
78 34gbut iſ it be ſouthern, the ſemi-diurnal will be
thelrune.ſi If you would reduce the ſemi-diuinal or
ſemi-nocturnal arc into hours and minutes, (ſee
Canon XI.)\you will likewiſe have the ſemi-diur
nal and ſemi-nocturnal arc of the places in the eclip
tic from the tables oſ ſemi diurnal and noctur
nal arcs at your Pole's elevation. If the ſign of the
'given degree be in the ﬁrﬅ part, look for its degree
in the delcendant degree placed to the lelt ; but if it
be at the latter part, in the aſcendant degree,
which is to the right, and in the common angle
of meeting, you will have the arc requtred, 'whole
denOmination you will perceive under the very ſign,
X whe- -'
xﬁ: -. ASTRONOMY AND
whether diurnal or nocturnal. And remem
ber, if theſe'are minutes, to take the proportional
part; but if it be denominated ſemi-diurnal, and
you want the ſemi-nocturnal, on the contrary, ſubd
ﬅract the arc found from 12 hours, and the re'
mainder is the other arc required. In the nativity
of Charles V. the Sun is in 14.o 30' of X: at the
Pole's elevation 520, I ﬁnd the ſign X in the latter
part; wherefore, to the 14 aſcendant degrees, l take
in the common angle the ſemi-nocturnal arc, 6ll
33'; hut becauſe the Sun has above 30', I ſubﬅract
one minute, and there remains of the ſemi-noctur
nal arc,z6h 32' : whereas, if I want the ſemi-diurnal
arc, I take 6h 32', from 12h, and there remains 511
28' of the latitudinal planets, provided their decli
nation does -not exceed 23o 32', The ſaid ſemi-di
urnal or nocturnal are, in the hours and minutes,
may be had thus: After reducing their declination
to the longitude of the ecliptic, in the manner ex
plained in Canon I. with this degree of the eclip
tic, I enter the table of the lſiemi-diurnal arc, and
take out the hours and minutes correſponding
thereto, in the manner we have mentioned, &c. as
in the nativity of Sebaﬅian. Saturn hath declina
tion, 7o 47' and is reduced, to 19o 50' of A, or 10O
Io' of x,whoſe ſemi-diurnal arc at the Pole's
' elevation 400, is (20 27'.
A' 'CANON
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 163
Canon lV.
The Hararj Times. ﬄ 'l-Jﬄ
Theſe may be taken ſeveral ways; ſiﬁrﬅ, the di
urnal from the partition of the ſemi-diurnal arc in
degrees and minutcs taken by ſix; the nocturnal
from the poſition of the ſemi-nocturnal; likewiſe
by ſix, from the ſix temporal hours; the cardinalct
ſigns of the world are mutually diﬅant: let the
ſemi-diurnal arc be 104." 45', the 104." divided by
6 make 17, and there remains 2; which, reduced
to minutes, and theſe added to the other 45, makes
135 ; which, when divided by 6, the remainder is
27', and the horary times 17" 27' diurnal. Second
lxy, the horary times of the parts of the ecliptic are
judged of in the proper tables ; as at the pole's ele
vation 45, the"1'5" oſ the ecliptic of a, the ho
rary tirſſnes are diurnal 17" 51', Thirdly, the ſemi
diurnal arc taken in the hours and minutes, iſ pro
duced by two with the half, is tranſmuted into the
diurnal horary times; and in like manner the ſemi
nocturnal arc into the n'octurnal horary times; as
the ſemi-diurnal arc is 15 of 3 , at the Pole 45", is
7h. 9', which, deducted by 2, with the half, becomes
17" 52'. Fourthly, of the planets having latitude,
let their received declination be brought back to
the ecliptic in the manner as explained in Canon I.
and with that degree of the ecliptic in the table of
horary times, they may be taken as above-men
tioned; but if the planet has a greater declination,
theſe 23" 32', the horary times cannot be taken
- X 2 any
an ASTRONOMY AND
any other way, except by the help ofthe aſcenſional.
diﬀerence. But if you have the diurnal horary
times, and want the uocturnal, or the Contrary,
ſubﬅmct your ſum from 30, and the reﬅ will
be the horary times required; as in the given ex- '
ample, Iſubﬅract 17" 51' from 30, and there re
mams the horary times nocturnal 12" 9'.
CANON V.
Right ſiﬅer/ſon. ﬃ ' /5£
This you will have from the prOper table; and if
the given place he in the ecliptic, ſo as to have no
latitude, look for the right aſcenſion under the co
lumn oo o', and in the common angle you hav'e it,
by taking 'the pr0p0rtional part for the minute of
longitude, it there are any, as in Canon I. ln the
'nativity of Charles V. the Sun is in 14" 30' of X,
the rightaſcenſion of 14 of X, is 345 16; for the 30',
28 are due, to be added, and the Sun's right aſcen
ſion becomes 3450 44', If the given place be not;
in the ecliptic, but has latitude from it, and is in
the integral degrees, both according to extent and
breadth in the common angle, you will have the
right aſcenſion: but if there are likewiſe minutes,
let the proportional part be taken, as in canon L i
*CANON Vl.
This Cnnon,conﬁﬅing of tables, will be given in
a future volume.
CANON
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. '65
l-l
CANON VII.
Oblique ſiﬁenſian and Drſcmſion,
Will be had by ſobſiracting the aſcenſional diﬀe
rence from the right aſceiſion of the ﬅar, iſ its de
clination he northern ; but it' ſouth, by adding the
aſcenſional diﬀerence to the right aſcenſion, and the
remainder ,is the oblique aſcenſion. Laſtly, if it has_
no declination, that right aſcenſion becomes oblique
aſcenſion; on the contrary, the deſccnﬁon will be
found, 'by adding; if the declination he northern,
by ſubﬅracting; if ſouth, from the right aſcenſion.
Example: 19 23' of 3, the declination is 120; its
aſcenſional diﬀeiPHCe at the Pole's elevation 440, we
have mentioned in Canon ll. which is tie 2'; the
right aſcenſion is 290 13'; but when the declina
tion is northern, ſubﬅract the aſcenſional diﬀerence
no 2' from the right aſcenſion, and there remains
the oblique aſcenſion 18" 11'. Now 1o 23' of in,
rhas the ſame declination and aſcenſional diﬂerence,
which is to be added to the right aſcenſion 205,0 13',
becauſe the declination is ſouthern, and the oblique
aſcenſion 220O 15'; beſides, there are extant many
tables of oblique aſcenſioas by which they may be
gained.
CANON VlII.
To r cdut-e the Right A'ﬅenſion, or Oblique, to the-Degree
of Larzgitude m the Bel/mit, ar to an] ot/Jtr Place of
Latitude or Longitudc. A
Look for the given right aſcenſion oſ the ecliptic
' in the body ofthe table ofright aſcenſions under the
column
166 ASTRONOMY AND
column oſ latitude o0 o', and you will have the
places in the ecliptic, correſponding to it, by taking
the pr0portional part ſor the minutes, if there be
any. But iſ, when the right aſcenſion of the lati
tudinal planet is given, you are deſirous to know
to what longitude in the ecliptic it Correſponds,
look for that right aſcenſion under the column of
the given latitude, and in the column of longitude,
you will have the degree of'the ecliptic correſpond
' ing to it: as for example, the right aſcenſion of
157O 48' in the ecliptic, anſwers to 6 of ma; but
if the right aſcenſion 157o 48' be, for example, for
the Moon, in latitude 5" ſouthern, it anſwers to 8
of Im; but with this caution, becauſe the lVIoon
then mediates the heaven with 60 of "32, but
has the rays in the Zodiac to the other planets from
80 of '131. ln like manner you muſt reduce the
oblique aſcenſion to the ecliptic from the table of
the oblique aſcenſions of the Pole's elevation'; as
the oblique aſcenſion of the ecliptic 168 9' to the
Pole's elevation is 450 reduced to 21 of m: ih the
ecliptic; but iſ the oblique aſcenſion be of the
B'Ioon in ſouth latitude 50, l ſay it is reduced to 19"
oſml with latitude, as is there poſited, but with
the ſame diﬅinction; for then the l\Ioon co-aſcends
in the ſame circle of poſition with 210 oſ ny, 'but
has the rays to the other planets in 19-0 of 1112. This i
revocation is oſſervice, in order to know what lon
gitude and declination the ſigniﬁcator encompaſſes
by the direction, and conſequently with what
planets
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 167
planets it contracts the aſpect when in the Zodiac,
which is, by adding the arc of direction to its right
aſcenſion, if in the right circle it be found in the
nativity ; or to the oblique aſcenſion, _if elſe
where.
CANON IX.
The diﬅance of any cardinal ſign or houſe from
their cuſp, will be eaſily obtained after the aſcen
ſion of that houſe or cardinal ſign, and likewiſe
the aſcenſion of a ﬅar is given; for ſubﬅracting
the leſſer of the preceding place from the
greater, which, if of the following, the remainder
will be the diﬅance of a ﬅar from that houſe or
cardinal ſign; but if the houſe or angle be in the
deſcending part of heaven, taking the deſcenſions
the houſe, and in the ſame place of the ﬅar, or the
aſcenſions of the oppoſite places, and fubﬅracting,
in like manner, the leſſer from the greater, the re
mainder will be the diﬅance required. The pre
ceding place is that which is in the leſſer degrees;
the ſucceeding in the greater: as the beginning of
er precedes, the beginning of 11 follows; and thus
in all. The diﬅances of the ﬅars are taken from
the cuſps of the houſes without the oblique aſcen
ﬁſions; but the right aſcenſion is to be known, to
gether with the ſemi-diurnal and nocturnal arcs,
or the temporary hours ; for after taking their diſ
, tance from the primary culminations, the ſecondary
diﬅances are made in the centers of the houſes; but
ſſ the
tas ASTHRONO'MY ANB
the ninth and houſes are diﬅant from the
culmination, by douhling the hofary times, or the
third part of the ſemi-diurnal arc; the eighth and
tWelfth, by double gemination, &c. Wherefore the '
primary and ſecondary diſtance of a ﬅar from the
culmination being given, always ſubﬅract the leſſer
from the greater, and you will have the ﬅar's diſ
tance from the given houſe by primary diﬅance; I
mean that which the planets have in a nativity ;
but the ſeconclary, that which they acquire by di
rection. There are ſeveral examples in the nativities
which are ſheth further on.
CANONſi X.
To drﬅribe 'be Figure (ſ [be Heavem.
This we are taught by almoſt all profeſſors,
but in a very diﬀerent manner; therefore be pleaſed
to receive here alvery Conciſe method. if the na
tural hour be given, let the aﬅronomical he made,
by adding the ſemi-iliurnal arc in the tables of the
houſes : at the Pole's elevation given, let-the place
of the ſame diurnal Sun be looked for, wherein is
deſcribed the figure near the tenth houſe, and let
the time be taken from the ſouth, which is found
on the baCk of it, and add to the aﬅronomical
hours found above. Finally, this ſum, when it is,
found in the ſame table of houſes, directly oppo
ſite, will appear the'ſign and degrees which belong
to the ſix eaﬅern houſes, by taking the propor-'
tional part, when there is occaſion. Of the other
ﬁx
t LP. n't'Nt-An'v- "P-H'tl. o s o PHY. '69
ﬂi't'weſiﬅern houſes, wthe'cuſps are deſcribed. with
the oppoſite ſigns,r and the ſame degree of the op
poſite houſes. . 5 , t . -, -
. Another way-The hour being given, let the de
gree oppoſite to the-Sunrof the given day be ſought
ﬂir in the..aſcendant-,--and let the, ſouthern time
which ſhall be ſoundbehind," be added to the
'given hour; when this ſum is found, let the divie
ſion of the houſes exPlained oppoſite, vbe taken,
&ac. From this ſame'ſum of the hours, ſubſiract
the ſouth time found behind the Sun'S degree
of the ſame day, conﬅituted in the tenth houſe,
and there will remain the aﬅronomical hour; or in
other words, poﬅ Mer-idian, as in the nativity of
Charles V. The giVen hour is ro' 11': I place in
the horoſcoPe 140 of-mz, in the back of which the
ſouthern time is 4h 29', which, when Iﬁnd in the
tables of the houſes, I take their diviſions, See,
Again, I place the Sun in the culmination, and
there I takengh I', which reject, from t4h 40',
ﬁrﬅ adding the 24h (as we have ſaid in. Canon VI.),
there remain the aﬅronomical hours 15h 39' paﬅ
meridian. > .
To place the. planets in the ﬁgure, let the aſ-_
tronomical hour be equatod; ﬁrﬅ, bythe table of
equation of natural days, then from the diﬀerence of
the meridionals, in the manner they are noted. The
placesofthe planets are very eaſily calculated to the
equatedhour, from the Saxegenery table, in this
manner :-In the zﬁrﬅ columtt on the left handeſ
. Y. the
He asrko-n-onyanv
the 24; hour-s, look in the' body of the table for the'
pſanet's Motion ; ' and directlyunder theſame ced
lumn, at the given hour, you will have its mad
tion, rſſo se added to- the place of the ſame, marked
in the' nium; or to be ſubﬁractjſſedsiſ the planet
' Be tet'ro'g'ate, as in' the example of Charles V;
The metion is diurnal, 14' 39', 'whicbﬄp
pdﬁte'td the ma number, I And, in the may of
the' tablE'Sexag-enary, unde-r 'She 37th' columnt; but
becauſe there they' do not goſia ﬁtr as minutes,
I talke the proportional pan, and I' ﬁnd it correſ
pondsundet 36'd 37': With eke kgtl'i- hour, under
the 36P'I" take 99. Again, For the 37' from the difJ
Dreade whia'r is there made, I' add gſiagain, for the
39' of the given hour, I lbok under 37, and at the'
39, in the common angle, I take 24.' to be added,
, and this makes all the Moon's' motion-90' 39', to'
be added to its place, cakulated- in the ſouth; but
the' Mn 27'r2-'of1' , its place immerges 'lo-the'
A hour, tz'l 39'in 69' 45' of he; As for t'hel (when
planets', when their [tuotion exceeds 72', whereas"
in 'the seuagenary table at 24, the greater nuﬄbet
is 72, make uſe of half the diurnal motion- of' th!"
planet; and the pmdhctiofithe-givenlhour muﬀ be'
doubled; as the dittrnal- motion' of 2 is 73', J uſe
this half number 37', and I' ﬁnd? oppoſite' 24;
under the colum gz; wherefore, oppsſiw- 2-5,
under the-ſamecolumn, F take '2-4", which doubled',
'make 48; or uſh the geminated hours, as; m- 43;
t Br- 24- in-ti're body of table, 1 'ﬁnd- uhc- motion
of
BLEMENTARY PHJLO'SOPHY- liv
eſ? 75,"under the column 95; but oppoſite 31., forF
the -15h 39', I uke48 or 49, as before. In like
manner ape the latitudes Laicuhbed, by reducing
the parts to minutes, and'look'mg on the ſides fer
day-s, and in the body for the diﬀerence of lati
tudes, &e. As the latitudee of I to the nodrof
February is 30 1-6', to the ﬁrﬅ day of March is
2O 11', the: diﬀerence is 65 for the 10 days; from
which, forthe 4. days, are produced 26, to be ſubu
ﬁracted : but, becauſe the Sexagenary table to nnrnq
her 10 is not extended above 30, I look for it at
the triplicate 10, which is 30', and I ﬁnd 65, under
1-30; but at the triplicate 4, i. a. 12 under rgo,
I ﬁnd 26 as above: 1 look for 10 at the quadri
p'licate, which, is 40, and I ﬁnd it either under 97'
or 98; for in the one it is deﬁcient, in the other it
exceeds in the minutes 20 ſeconds; and at th'
quadriplicate 4, z'. e. 16 under either of the ſame
column, l ﬁnd 26 as aboveſi. The Part yf Far-m.
is placed according to the Nlpon's diﬅance from
the Sun; and you muﬁ obſerve, What my: the
Moon has to the Sun, for the latter ought to have'
the ferne, and with the ſame exceſs or deﬁciency to
the O; the horoſcope, as the Moon has to th'
Sun, ſe is Q ice-"thee homſcope; and as; theSun
is to =the haddfchpd; ſd is the Modnctto the
ﬀ-qum; asmſſthelnativity of. Charles V, the
M'oon uppiies withe nitimate Seuile of the ſign,
but with a deﬁciency bf'7*,45' : I' ſnbﬅrqct the r
45' from the 5" 45' of m, ultimate Sextile to the
Y 2 horoſcope,
'15 U - A'STRONOMY.'AND.
l
horoſcope, and the part lsvplaced 28® 9' of a;
but the partitions of the houſes may alſo be made
by the right and oblique aſcenſions to their polarſſ
elevations of thehouſeetﬁrﬅ, you are to bring
hack the given hour to the parts of the equator :, r
ifthe given'hour be. Itabt, add theſe parts to the,
oblique aſcenſion of the Sun's oppoſite place, and
the Sun will be the oblique aſcenſion of the ho
roſcope of the ﬁgure to be erected; if the given,
hour he Aſironomical to the Sun's right aſcen
ſion, add the degrees to which you' have re-i
duced the Aﬅronomical hours, and the Sum will
be the right aſcenſion to be placed in the culmi
nation: the aſcenſions of the other houſes are made:
by adding 30" to the aſcenſions of. every one:
of them. From theſe tables of aſcenſions, to the
elevation of the ſame houſes, . are had the degrees,
oſthe Zodiac, to be placed in theſe houſes Finally,
directly under the horoſcope, deſcribe the la
titude of the planets, the declination, horary
times, right aſcenſion, &c. Likewiſe, to every
houſe out of the parallels, draw the Pole's eleva
tion and obliqueaſcenſion, which you may do by
adding 30 degrees to the right aſcenſion of thev
'tedium car/i; for. the eleventh, likewiſe add 30, and
you will have the oblique aſcenſionoſ the tWelfth,
and ſo for the reſt of the Pole's elevation of the
houſes, as explained in the proper ſſtable, and alſo
in the tables of the houſes, Canon Vl.
Canon
ILEMENTARY PHl-LOSOPHY. '73
CANON Xl.
Of changing 'be equal Hours and their Minute: into
Parts andMinute: ofth Equatar, and vice verſa 'be
Parts of the Lquator into Hours, &ſc
This will conﬅitute a part of the future volume
of this workI
CANQN Xll.
On the Circle quzſſtian, or 'be Pale-'s Elevation often)
Planet. A
Under the circle oſ poſition, later authors, are to i
he underﬅood of the nature of that paſſing through
the common ſections ofthe horizon and meridians;
and upon ſuch circles they direct their modera
tors, and' conﬅitute the intervals of the houſes.
But how' frivolous and remote from natural truth
this opinion is, may be ſeen in my Philoſophy of
the Heavens, which I have largely and plainly de-u
monſirated ; but it is alſo againﬅ the Prince qua
zbematics, P'rOLI-zMY, 'who has tranſmitted to poﬅe
rity this univerſal' ſcience, founded only on the
ſublime principles of PhiloſOphy, which, Ithink,
innumerable examples fully prove. Thoſe who re
fuſe to follow him, doubtleſs proceed through
confuſed ways, which have no claim to the leaﬅ
commendation whatever. I deſire no other guides
but Ptolemy and Reaſon. I have no idea of circles
of poſition, which are directed through the com
mon ſectiohs of the horizon, and meridianzof thoſe
that are-deſcribed by the proportional diﬅances
of
m; ASTRONOMY- AND
of the ﬅars towards the angles ;'we may, by means
of a very eaſy method, know the-Folds elevation
upon the Pvtolomaie circle of any ﬅar whatever.
v In the ﬁrﬅ place, kecvthe Quantity of the houſe 'he
taken ; that is, the. &wi-diurnal me, which-the Hairs,
whoſe'polar elevation i; ſought for, meaſhlſﬂby
dgctration. This quantity of the houſe may be had
ſeveral ways: The ho'rziry conditiqnary time's
, of limit-Rag' when doubled, pmduce the quaptity
the ﬅarry houſe. The third part of the
ſcmi-d'mmal arc erſ the fears, is the 'meaﬁue of
the houſe-above the catch; aſ thoſemiﬄocﬂumal,
under the earth. 3- The diﬂanee of a &ax-ſcorn
the pneceding houſe, joined. with the4136sz afng
ſame ſiarﬂom the feccedﬄt, taking the diﬅanee
as mentioned in CAan lX *. lzſay, theſe idiﬂagqeg,
added together, produce the (paſſe or quantity- of
the houſe. Ithen La: 'She dithx'ence Of the, Pole's
elevation he taken, which is' between the. ſucce
dent and preceding houſe, as before; 'in the midﬅ
oftheſe is ſoundjhe Gar, by the, table of the pelar -
houſes; then let the diſtance of the ﬂat he taken,
either from the ſuecedomor pmcedixyg houſes,asbe
fore mentioned. (4\) By the Gelden i'ule. Qaqe, If
the wlw'le quantity of the ﬅar-ry houfe give the po
lar diﬀerence betw een the fugeedem and PISE-edng
houſes; what part of the diﬀerence will the diſtance
of the ﬅar from either houſe give ?_ Let the fourth
number, which is the product of' the PQLCPS
elevation ' be Augmentcd by the hogfe from
which the diﬅance of' the ﬅars is taken, be
added
iLEMINTARY rtrrrosoPHY. 37;
added to the houſe's elevation ; iſ diminiſhing, ſub
ﬂractedx, zſhdſi'the remainder or ſum will bothe polar
elevation 'of that ﬅar, of which more esamples ſol<
low inthe nativity oſ Francis, the King of France,
&e. Here w'e muſt he cautious, becauſe theſipolar
elevations ofthe houſes are not increaſed ordirniniſne
ed uniformly; that'is, for example, to the latitude
ofvnhe country 45; the polar elevation ofthe eleventh
houſe is increaſed 18'. In 50, the twelfth houſe is
augmented. 15' nearly, and as far the horoſc0pe is
increaſed, 11, ſo that you ſee they have no equal
increaſe: VVhena [lar is about the mean diﬅance
from the centcrs of the preceding and ſucceeding
houſes, iſany one deſire to have a true polar elevzþ
tion oſ that ﬁar, he ought to avoid this inequality;
as, ſuppoſe the' (lar he in the middle diſtince
from: the__mcdium well' to the eleventh, where, by the
golden rule', the pole increaſes 90 25', which is hall=
the eighteenth' part, 50' Po which the. eleventh houſe
ls= eleVated'. v A flat of this kind hath, in reality, a
polarlelevation greater thnn- this half, and the rea
ſon is; becauſe the diﬀerence of, the pola'r elevation
is alWays diminiſhed from the mcdium (ce/i to the
horoſcope ; anclſſ therefore the tenth houſe, the polarz,
elevation, has a greater augmentation in the ﬁrﬅ
moiety, than in the latter. ' i
The Pole's diﬅance of the houſes are theſe : 11,
as, and 19: iſ we divide 11 into 5. and 6, but 15
into7 and 8; laﬅly, 19'into 9 and lo, the divi
ſion- will. appear very agreeable to reaſon, viz.
llltO
he ASTRONOMY-Aſiu
imo 5, 6, 7, 8, 9' And iczzx. which are the daﬀe:
rence of the Po'le's 'elevation in'ct 'ill-the medium of
the houſes; wherefore," ah'ſſove the given ﬅar placed
in the middle diﬅance from the tulmination to the
1 xth, 'you will have the P'ole's elew'vation to. But the
caution iis o'nly to be obſerved, when a ﬁar ﬅops'
about the Moon's diﬅande from the buſpi, where,
ﬁrﬅ taking the proportional parts, by the golden'
rule, near one degree, as tnentioned above, ſhþuld
afterwards be added or ſuhﬅracted ; for when it re-'
main: about the cuſps of the houſes, it ſhould be
entirely neglected, as it makes but little diﬀerence
CANON' Xlll.
The Dﬄames aſ tbe A'ſheﬂs both in the Zodiac and
World, and the Degrees in t/nm.
In [be Zoﬂmc U. In the Zodiac. D.
The Sextile * has 60 The Seſquiquadrate 135
(Luintile 72 Bequintile 144.
andrate 0 go Oppoſition 8 180
Trine A 120
But becauſe every-my is a circle, whoſe center
is the 'ﬅar projecting the my, excepting the oppod
ﬁtion, doubtleſs every ray cuts the whole latitude
of the Zodiac; wherefore, wheneVer it happens
that another ﬅar paſſes through that ray's fection,
whatever latitude the other ﬁar may have, it re
ceiVes the my, and mutually projects the ſame
from that fection to another ﬅar, and only from
the
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. '177
the point of latitude which this ﬅar has there;
but this manner of receiving and projecting the
rays happens in the daily motion of the ﬅars in the
directions, progreﬃon, and all the motions of the
ﬅars ; and indeed from the great diﬀerence of lati
tude of ſuch ﬅars are mutually aſpected, there fol
low ſome diﬀerence of the ray's longitude, but of a
very few minutes,which may be omitted; however,
thoſe who wiſh for further inveﬅigation, may con
ſult Regiomontanus and Maginus.
At the Medium tarli, the ﬅars have their * from
the cuſp ofthe eighth and twelfth houſes.
Qum'rxuz,
When their diﬅance from it is four of the ﬁve
parts of the ſemi-diurnal arc, or ſix parts of ﬁve
of the >l< .
a BADRATE,
From the eaﬅern and weﬅern points, that is,
from the aſcendant and ſeventh.
_ - Tnmn,
From the centre of the ſecond and ﬁfth houſes.
SESQUIQUADRATE,
From the mean diﬅance between the eaﬅ, and
the i'zmm paſt', and between this and the weﬅ.
Brown-rue,
When their diﬅance from the imum ca-Ii is two of
the ﬁve parts of the ſemi-nocturnal arc, or three
of the, five 'parts fromr eaﬅ to ſſweﬅ belowi the
earth. ,
Z OPPOSITJON.
11! _> - MHQNÞM uwn
, . _ Qnrosxrwz
.' I; fron; the tgli. .
' At '7 the ,hoft-Moone,r tlretﬅarzs have the -ſexti.le
&oxnltlzekpngp. of thgſieleventh and third houſes.
, . ..: nguNTttr,
.',Whgn the diﬅance from the eaﬅ is four of the
ﬁll? parts of the ſemirdiurnal arc, or noctutnal; or
jn, whenwords, when they are diﬅant one part out
afﬁve ﬁfthe ahqve arc from the medium cell', or
imum'cwli, towards the eaﬅ.
. - v QUADRA-rz.
The Medium and Imum Gar/i.
TRlNE,
From the'cuſp of the ninth and ﬁfth.
SESQUlQUADRATE.
From the middle diſtance' between the 'nt-dign)
cet-'11 and tweﬁt and bettvqen the Weﬅ-acid. imum
cas/i. " _' r ' i
BſichUlNTrL'z,
Whenthe 'diﬅa'nce it two' out of ﬁve parts from
the weﬅ ahOVe and below the earth; ſſ'Ictoſi the Sun
and Moon exiﬂing in 'the cuſp of any houſe, the
reﬅ of the'planets have their rays' in. the'world
in like manne-r towards the angles, that if they
abide in the cuſp of the 'ninth houſe theyhave
napsﬁtptn them. ' ' ' '
.. x z 'The SE.X'1'1LE,
(me Jhesurſp of the eleventh and weﬂ.
Qym'rrmt,
ILEMENTARY dHif'dsſiSÞHY. x7ſi,®
Truth-i; J' _
When the" diﬂad'ca Frorﬁ the lu'm'Tnﬁr'y is'Tzsyahd
the Seſi'xt'lle of the ﬁfth pﬄ'ffrb'ﬃ iidb'ublb'ﬁexﬃſi'
nittioh bctf the hdraty'timezs; dnﬀdidfndſilſſo? zi ﬂat;
remziihs Above'the'ſſEd'rtſſ; noctii'rﬁhjz if b'eſi'lbw ;"fſi0'1"I
the (An-nue ha's tkvdhſiiſie" þ'ar'ts'ſhotect than' the' *',*
vehie'h a're'thcte'ﬁfth pm of if. ' ' ' 7 1 *
* Qp'AﬁiAfi-Z," t r ſſ
From the c'liſpſiſſdf the'ſiﬄ'eſſth ctdh'ﬂ' ﬁStth houſes.
. . _ TBINB'
Frdm the eſſﬁſſﬀ ctadd'cſiﬂſp'ofithe ﬁfth. _
_ SESQUX'AUADRATl-zn w.- _ _
' When their diﬅance heyond 'the Trine' is one.
change in the horaryſi'times, in_ like manner con-7.
ditionary, z'. e. nocturnal; I may ſay, when their
diﬅance beyond the andrate is in the medium of
the ſemi-nocturnal-htc, þ BEch'u'ſctQ both the Seſqui
quadrate to the cuſp of the ninth'hduſo; ful-Th'e
low the earth. ' -' ' - * u
quvnſivrnn;
When they are diﬅant beyond theſſTrine tﬄ'ce'
the ﬁfth part of the nocturnql Sextile, i. e when
taken below the e'arth, or when their diﬅance
from the oppdﬁcttiod 'of the luﬃiﬁ'ntyſiii tWo of the
ﬁve parts bf the ſetni-nbctuindl'dfe'; ana'ﬀn me
mannerz-"'whzteter' 'other 'plate they' a'ſire deﬂﬁ',"
Whether lum'liﬂdt'ies; et'any othdf-'Raxﬂltht tEYsF-ﬄ'
the woﬂd'a're" tak'e'h'ſib'y a' prbþﬂ'xliiohﬂ' sit-Wife?
the'ſime noctpmal and diurnal arc. ſſ
ct, Z 2 PARALLEL-S
'to ASTRONOMY AND
. PARALLELS in the Zoumc,
Which are commonly called antiſcions, are cir
cles equi-diﬅant from the equator, and are taken
from the equal declination of the ﬅars of what
latitude ſoever, which, if it be of the ſame name,
are called equal in dignity ; if one circle be
northern, the other ſouthern, the former is ſaid
to be of authority, but the latter in ſubjection.
PARALLELS in the Woann,
Are diﬅances equally proportional; both parts
'ſſfr'om one of the cardinal houſes; though, indeed,
they appear to have diﬅances equally propor
tionate to all the cardinal; as the eleventh with
the ninth and third ; and they are taken by a pro
portion of the ſemi-diurnal and nocturnal arcs of
the ﬅars.
CANON XIV.
The uſe of the Sexagenary table is to ﬁnd the
part proportional, and will be proved, by exam
ple, in another volume of this work, to which we
refer the Reader.
CANON XV.
The Uſe qf 'be Lagarit/Jms.
We have placed the logarithms of ahſolute
numbers, becauſe in that manner of Ptolemean di
rection, which we follow, they are of veryr great
ſervice in exhibiting the fourth proportional num
ber;
ELIMENTARY PHXLOSOP'HY m
her; therefore the three numbers being given,
whether of parts or hours; if they are miriutes,
let each of them be reduced to minutes, adding
them as they are diſpoſed in their plaCes ; then take' '
the logarithms of- the third and ſecond number, add
them together; from this ſum ſubﬅract the lega
rithm of the ﬁrﬅ, and look for the remainder in the
middle of the table; oppoſite to which, take the
number for the fourth required, which divide by
60, and with the remainder you will have parts or
hours with their minutes. For example; let the
numbers be given, the ﬁrﬅ 95, 25, the ſecond 45,
the third IOO, 15, reduced to minutes are 5725
2145-6615; the logarithms of the firﬅ 3751-778,
of the ſecond 333.143, of the third 382-1-053. I
add the ſecond and third together, and I make the
ſum 715196, from which I ſubﬅract the ﬁrﬅ, and
there remains the logarithm 339418, anſwering to
the number 2478,.which, reduced to degrees, makes
410, 18', the fourth number required. But becauſe
the logarithm of eight ﬁgures, the ſix ﬁrﬅ of
theſe are ſuﬃcient for this purpoſe, and it ſeemed
not good to reſcind the reﬅ, by reaſon of other ad
vantages reſulting from them : you may only make
uſe of the ſix ﬁrﬅ, with proviſion, if you think
proper, for it is of little uſe or conſequence; but
ifthe ſeventh ﬁgure be ﬁve or greater, you ſhould
add the unity to the ſix ﬁgures, which will be your
laﬅ; and lfthe ſeven ﬁgures be 4, 3, *2, I, o,
omit it entirely. - In the given example of the ﬁrﬅ
' number
is; 7' ASTRONOMY AND
number 5725, the logarithm is eight ﬁgures,
37577755, I leave out the the two laﬅ ﬁgures 55',
and add the unit to the ſix, which make it 37'5773.
Obſerve alſo, that the logarithms are eaﬁer ctcol-ȝ'
lected by taking two ﬁgures for every change;
thus ﬁrﬅ collect 37, then 57., laﬅly 78.
CANON XVL
To equalize the Are yf Direction.
Add the arc of direction to the right aſcenſion
'of the natural Sun, look for this ſum in the mid
dle of the table of right aſcenſions under the eclin
tic, and take the degree and minute of longitude
correſponding with that ſum ; then in the beﬅ
Ephemeris reckon in how many days the Sun from
the day and hour of birth, has arrived at that de'
gree and minute. The number of days indicate as
many years; every two hours over reckon a month;
for in the nativities which follow, the example is
explained.
t ct ﬄ ASTRONOMY'
_[ I33 ]
ASTRONOMY
AND i
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY,
TRANSLATED FROM TRI IATIH Of
PLACIDUS DE TI/TUS.
PART II.
To CALCULATE 'be Digecnons to the Aspncrs
in the ZODIAC.
Have divided the Canons into four parts, for
greater diﬅinction and perſpicuity, that l
might not always repent the ſame thing, under any
other title than of/ganXie, that is, either in the
Zodiac, or in theazor-ld; wherefore, in this
SECOND PART, know, that l treat of the Direc
tions in the Aſpects in the Zodiac; or, in other
words, in the primam'mobile, and of no other. But
what the aſpects in the primam mobile are, and what
in w, together with the cauſe of this true
diﬅinction, I have very. plainly demonﬅrated, from
natural principles in the Philoſ0phy of the Hea
Vens;
184 ASTRONOMY AND
vens; for the aſpects in the primum mobile are mu.
'tually independent of the horizon of the count-ry,
by reaſon oftheir motions in the ſame primam mabilc;
under -which, they are ſo ſiruate,> in 'all countriesw
and cities of the world, with the diﬀerence only pf
_)l\&,1/r 7 30"
time, or polar elevation. The aſpects in A
are made dep'endent on the horizon of every coun
try, becauſe of the motion of the ﬁars towards the
world, and tardinal houſes : But as it is a diſpute
whether it is. proper to ſay, that the ﬁgniﬁcatpr is
directed to the promittors, and their rays, or the
promittors and rays to the ﬁgniﬁcator, know,
there is a double motion of directions. I ſay, that
the (igniﬁcator remains immoveable in the mun
dane ﬁtuation, always under the ſame Pole's eleva- \
tion, but advances under the primum mobile from
its more weﬅern parts, to the more eaﬅern; the
erctratics, however, remain immoveable under the
primum mobi/e, but are moved with a rapid and unin
verſal motion from the eaﬅern quarter of the
world to the more weﬅern, or the place of the ﬁg
niﬁcators. Again,_I ſay, in the converſe motion
of the direction, that the ﬁgniﬁcator remains im
moveable under the primum mobile, but is hurried
on by an univerſal motion from the eaﬅern quarter
of the world to the more weﬁern, towards the
place of the promittors in the world; but the oc
curr-ent remain altogether immoveable in their
mundane ſituation, or polar'elevation. It follows,
then, that both may have a nzime, but with a diﬀe
rence;
LZBMENTARY PHlLOSOPHY. xx,
rence; and, I will ſay, indiﬂ'erently, according as
1 ſhould have occaſion to mention them. Finally,
as experience in every place ever convinces us,
that beſides the reaſon I have advanced in the Phi
loſophy of the Heavens, the aſpect: of the ſtar to
the luminaries and cardinal houſes, which hap
pen every day after the nativity, have a very ﬅrong
inﬂuence, viz. from every day to every year,
whence, above the reﬅ, are derived the climactrical
years, as I ſhall (hew afterwards; and it is likely
that Ptolemy, in the laﬅ Chapter of Book IV.
under the name of Annual Places, means the places
'of thoſe motions. I thought proper to give theſe
motions the name of Secondary Directions; but
the others, which we are going to mention, to
characterize under that of Primary Directions.
CANON XVII.
To direct the Sun, being near 'be [Hid-beaver', to the
Ca'y'dnctiam, and all Rays.
The Sun is accounted near the cuſp of the houſe
When he is not more than 3' diﬅant. Firﬅ, take
the Sun's right aſcenſion, then the places of the aſ
pect, whether it be the conjunction or oppoſition,
or any other intermediate ray, by always taking
the right aſcenſions, and omitting the latitude in
this caſe, even in the conjunction and oppoſition,
if, however, the promittor hath not greater latitude
than the orb of his light :v for this is the diﬀerence
between the zodiacal any; mundane aſpects; the
A a ſſ former
18'6 ' 'As-'PRGNOMY ANÞ
former being cauſed by a greater pronim'it-y to
the greater diﬅance of the ﬅars zbeIWOen- each
Other, and above their real-ways in the Zediac,
the greeted' proximity happening in' the ſame par
file ldngitude, though their diﬅance and diﬃenence
be according t'cctrct l'atitud'c, iſ the" diﬅance of latitude
in the conjunction and oppoſition, as I have ſaid',
Be not'greeter 'thanthe ſphere of_activity of light
of the ﬂat-s; for if it be greater, the conjunction
le trot POWerfnl', not' the o'ppoſition in the Zodiac,
as I havedemonﬅrated in the Celeﬂial Philoſophy.
Laﬁly, fubﬅract the Sun's right aſcenſion from
that of the aſpects, and the remainder is the are of
direction: l'n the nativityofGeorge Alddhrandinus,
the-'right aſcenſion is*215* 5-8', but the right aſcen
ſion aſ Venus, taken in the ecliptic, is 262 o8', from
which? ſubſiracting the Sun's right aſcenſion, there
remains the are of direction, 460 gf.
CArzon XVlII. '
I, direct man, Mſmd m-ar the aſheſ-che
* Horaſcaþe, or. Seventh Horſe, to 'be Conjunction,
and all the Rays. *
'I take the Sun's oblique aſcenſion, if in the aſ
cendant, under the l'atitude of the country, or the
deſcenﬁon, if in the ſeventh, or oblique aſcenſion
of the oppoſiteplace; then the aſcenſion or deſcen
lion ofthe place of the aſpect under the ſame Pole,
leaving out the latitude in this eaſe, provided that,
in conjunction and oppoſi-tion, the latitude of-the
planet
lLBMBNTARY PHILOSOPHY- '87
planet does not exceed its orbs, and take the Sun's
oblique aſcenſion from that of the ray, and the re'
. mainder is the arc of direction required.
Canon XIX.
Toxdirect the Sun, 'when found above the Earth, far
diﬅantfrom the Cardimzl How/Et, to 'be-Conjunction,
gratifie Bare 4. at 'ma- tap/V;
If the Sun'g'diﬅance from the cardinal honſ'es is
more than 3" from the cuſp, ﬁrﬅ take the Sun's
right diﬅance from-the meridian; and from the
fame, the right diﬅance of the aſpect the 'Sun is to
be directed to, which we call the primary, the
ſemi-diurnal arc, and that of lth_eyaſpect; and by
the Golden rule ſay, if' the Suſſnfs iſemizdiurnal
arc, gin theright diſ
tance of the ſame, 'what diﬅance' will th ſemi
diurnal arc of the promittorfd/F wan þſi' place
give, which is the ſecondary diﬅance of the aſpect?
Now, if both the primary and ſecondary. diﬅance
of the aſpect be from the ſame cardinal houſe, and
iſin the 'ſame hemiſphere of Heaven, aſcendant or de
ſc'endant, ſubﬅradt the leſſer from the greater, and
the remainder is the arc of direction ;' 'but if one is
in theaſcendant, and the other in the deſcendant,
add b'oth diﬅances together, and the ſum is Xhe arc
ofdirection. 'You may take the' ſemi-'dctiurna'l arc,
'hath of the Sun and the aſpect, either in hours or
minutes, or degrees and minutesſſ; or, inﬅead of
*' ' '- Aſſaz' " the
_ a
18! ASTRONOMY AND
2.:ct Jſ-v-n \
ſad-U A
*W,
a, ZScmidiumal ered'
ZA,/_.,92_-{. 9.'3Right aſcenſion U
the ſemi-diumal arc, you may uſe the temporary
hours.
In the nativity ofCardinal Fachenetti, l have a_
mind to &LYKERSPenL-zzþe&Ne-"sey&ere-32ax.
the Zodiac, Which happens in 19. t er,\the right
aſcenſion mcdiuni cgh' being 326.26,
O *-' 7 _/2M*'//A
p' ſ 7ﬁdﬂk4xflmlſi44 /u 'p
\} 4, t. n'ctzſpowjd H
6 a Semi-dium.n3_5 zoﬄyﬂ - ſix, ___
an
o 8 Ruſcenﬁon 1? " '
\ JM'O but.
. _ v _ . De . . _
LZFÞF/ſſﬂc sat-'wiſh a maze- c'h' (finTJIEl/Z, 453. 'JIZſom med. um. 64.), J/m
A
- ' - . air/a Art/ﬂ- Mr
Now, iſthe Sun's ſeint-diurnal arc, vrz. 6h, give itsſ szi
diﬅance from the med.um cell' 3342, what will the/lſh ma
ſemi-diumal are of er, 1941, Giz. 6h 30' give PTLELHJH
Anſwer, 36.,30, which is the ſecond,er diﬅance oſ9< V? Zr/
the aſpect's plaCe. But' becauſe both the primary p"
and ſecondary diﬅance: ere produced in the oſcend
ing part of heaven, I ſuhﬂrdct the ſecondary diſ
tance from the primary, the remainder is the
arc of direction. Thus, ' '
Primary diﬅance at mdium chi, is 44-9
s' 43
- 36 3?
Secondary diﬅance, -
Subﬂract and arc, 15 1
For the equation, I add the arc of direction to the
Suu's right aſcenſion; and I make the Sun 15.£i,
which anſwer to 1649 er, at which the Sun, from
the day and hour ot the nativity, arrives in 16
' days,
ELEMENTARY PHILQSOPHY. [89
"days, with ſome hours, which are the compaſs of
ſo many years.
ſi Another way -_To direct the Sun by the oblique
aſcenſion, under his Pole of poſition, take the
Pole's elevation, in the manner explained in Canon
XII. and the oblique aſcenſion qf the Sun,
> A "P- .'- *,. ,za 1 ' ,
aſpectspb-y- ſubﬅracting the aſcenſion, 75
Ithe one ſrom the other, &e. of- which more ex- ſ
amples will be given, we having laid down'
a table of the Pole's elevation of the eleventh,
twelfth, ſecond, and third houſes, for the latitude
of the country, to 600: in theſe tables of the
houſes, there is placed, above every houſe, its polar
elevation, ' '
CANON XX."
To direct 'be Sun, whenfound below the Earth, zſin the
',Spatc of the Crengſcule, to the Conjunction: and
Rays.
The reaſon why the Sun, when ſound in the ere-
puſcular ſpace, ſhould be directed abovethe circles
parallel to the horizon, and not abovaliorary cir
cles, as when the Sun is above the Earth, has been
given in the Theſis, and'demonﬅrated in the cleareſl:
inanner, in the Philoſophy of the Heavens; but now
attend to what pertains tothe practice ofcalculating.
lfﬃe Sun is found in the morning crepuſcule,
ﬁrﬅ direct the Sun to the degree of the aſpectst
under the latitude of the country, that is, to the'
elevation of your pole, though indeed the Sun
does
'90 AST_RONOMY AND
does not remain there, but below, and in a ſepa.
rate place. You muﬅ obſerve the arc of direction,
then take the Sun's diﬅance from the horoſcope,
by its oblique aſcenſion, which I call the Sun's
primary diﬅance, and take care, that if this diſ
tance be greater than the whole quantity-of the.
crepuſculine to the paralleleof drepreﬃon, 139, the
Sun is not the cauſe of twilight; and in this caſe
you are to calculate by the following Canon. But
iſ the Sun is in the ſpace of the crepuſcules, with
the Sun's diﬅance from the horoſcope, above taken,
enter the table oſ crepuſcules at your Pole's ele
vation, placed in your ﬁrﬅ column; and with the
Surhſſ/ ſign, and degree, according as they are placed,
in the beginning or end; and when, in the body of
the takigſygu hgyeþſound this diﬅance the
Sun' ct' on t ie back oſ the ſame oppoſite to it,
you are to obſerve what degree of the erepuſculine
- parallels the Sun poſſeſſes, viz. in the ſecond co
lumn, by taking the part proportionate only to the
Sun's degree of longitnde, as I ſhall mention aſ.
terwards; and under tllﬁZgI-Zyﬂllzﬂctlell ſee what the
diﬅance of the place or oppoſrte degree is, by the
direction; that is, what the Sun's diﬅance ſiis from
the horoſcope, in the ſame crepuſculine parallel,
after the direction is ﬁniſhed; and this diﬅance I
call ſecondary ; but ifthe primary and ſecondary
diﬅances are equal, the true arc is that which you
have calculated above, viz. the Sun's arc in the h0*
roſcope; iſ they are unequal, ſubﬅract the leſſer
' ſi from
a
ELEMINTARY' PHILOSOPHY- 19'
frogi the greater, and the remainder I call the
Mtdiﬀerence. La-ﬅly, if the ſecondar'y diſ
tande he leſs, and. the primary greater, add that re
vmainder, orcelazﬅxeieia-'diﬀerencq to the bun's arc of.
direction, calculated in the horoſcope; but iſ the
fecond'ary diﬅance? greater, and the primary leſs,
fubﬅract the eaﬅem diﬅance from the arc of di
reﬂion, and you will have in the remainder the
true arc of direction calculated in the crepuſculine
circle, which is to be equath the uſual way, as in
Canon XVL And, obſerve, that in ſeeking for the
Sun's primary diﬅance from the horoſc0pe in the
meat?thesrauﬂcelixzaztﬁs ſtﬃsiat.Sotilfﬄf .
ſſ part proportionaly'to the degree of the creþuſcur r i 'ſi
lines-va' paralell's depreﬃon; oppoſite to which, you
will ﬁnd the diﬅance which you have taken, with
the proportional part near it, omitting that primary
one of the natural Sun; for it is of no conſequence
to take the degree and minute of the crepuſculine
depreﬂion ; but it is enough if you take the inteſi
gral degree neared/fhe Sun's longitude diﬅance,
taken' with the pr0portional part. For example zſic.
John Duke Rainutius Farneſe, the Sun's diﬅance
from the horoſcope is 18" 56', to the latitude of þ
Flegoinxnzesteem.prtfﬂﬂſShe,-SFWSL*Z222@ ..
undei' to" oftv, the diﬅance isAzo', from which,'/
for the 60-(for the Sunfin 16" of an) 17' are due,
which, when added together, the diﬅance is 18' 49',
but-the Sun's diﬅance, 18o 56'; yet this is nothing
to the purpoſe, as the diﬅance is but ſmall, there
fore
m asrnonomv AND'
ſore make uſe of the former 18" 49',Jwithout any
regard to that of the Sun, 18o 56' Je the ſame de
preﬃon of the crepuſcule 13.: Under o" o' of 25, of
the place of the quartile of Mars, Itake the ſeconS
dary diﬅance, 24.0 45', from which I ſubﬅract the
Sun's diﬅance, whichl obtained after taking the
proportional, which is 180 49'; and I ſuppoſe,
that the Sun in the nativity, might have this
diﬅance from the horoſcope, that I may place it
under the crepuſculine circle 13 exactly. But if
you are deſirous to have the crepuſculine circle in
minutes, take the proportional part; but it would
he attended with greater trouble than advantage;
For you will ﬁnd the diﬀerence in the aſcenſion:
almoﬅ imperceptible, and not greater than that
which ariſes from the diﬀerence of ſome minutes
oſ the pole's elevation oſ the circle of poſition,
in which all. profeſſors entirely omit minutes.
Wherefore, when you have occaſion to uſe the
eaﬅern diﬀerence, do as already mentioned, &cſi. oſ
which the eXamples follow in Guﬅavus King of
Sweden, Odoardns Cardinal Farneſe, Rainutius,
oſ whom we have 'juſt now ſpoken, and John
Columna, which a're given by Argolſi/Lſil mth with
more examples of authors relating to this point. I
would have undertaken to give you a thorough
exaiuination. 1 alledge nothing of my own abſen
vations, leﬅ they ſhould be rejected as ſpurious
and falſe; but from theſe four, and all examples that
Argol gives of this nature, Ithink, that to any
one
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 193
my opinion on this ſubject, will appear highly ſa
tisfaictoryXBut if again the Sim poſſeſſes the even
in twilight, the ſame method entirely is to be
w, except only changing the manner. Let
the Sun's direction 'be to the pla'ce of the aſpect,
bzz the oblique deſcenſiog 'Lr obliqu'e aſcenſion of
t e places oppoſite &chi-the'POleſiof the country;
then let the Sun's diﬅance be taken 'from the Weﬅ,
through the ſame deſcenﬁons 'or oppoſite aſcen
ſi ſions; let this diſtance be required in the table of
twilight, which, if it be greater then the whole
quantityvofthe crepuſculine to the inferior parallels,
180, the Sun is no longer in the crepuſculine; and
then we muſt make uſe of the following Canon',
Laſtly, let the ſecondary diſtance under the ſame
crepuſculine circle be taken, I mean, of the
ﬂee place, and let the leſſe: be ſubﬅracted from tlie
greater, and the remainder added to the arc of di
rection found above, if the/ſecondary diﬅance be
greater than the primary leetniltobe ſubﬅracted, if
leſs; that is, in a manner djﬃezehltufiom that we
ſpoke of above, and the ſum or remainder is the
true arc of the directions
'CANON XXI.
'In direct the Sun when found in the Spaee iſ the ah
ſcure Signs 'a the Conjunction: and other Aſpectsſi
va
The Sun, when under the Earth,£-is diﬅant from
thehorizon either eaſiern or weﬅern, out of the
' B h parallel
' One diligent in ſearching intſio the truth of things,xwþz::;4
faﬁ/h
m AsraoNOMY ANDſſ
parallel of twilight, becauſe then W-is in
the obſcure arc, or ſpace of the dark ſigns. Firﬅ,"
take the Sun's ſemi-noctu al ar fr rn which
A? - ,
ſubﬅract the whole cregh 'cu me arczſſ'ﬂlﬂ you
'trill have at the inferior parallel 18" Land
the remainder, with-is the obſcu-re arc,A you muﬅ
gauein WZPFWLLSHMYPBWÞBPLL
0
urn a o' - re e l* frſſh. r
'c ' Was-X?gnaw,th
ſubﬅract the 'whole arc of crepuſcul e, t at is,
A
that which is found there by the Shn; and thus you
wm have, under the degree of the place oppoſite'
'tothe inferior parallel, 180, anwereoyujemai alſ
the obſcure arc of this oppo'ſlte placde.,1££ſctlctſir ,
take the Sun's-riglit diﬅance from the immg carli.07/Av-ſict
Laﬅly, by the rule of zprop0rtion, ſay, if the
whole obſcure agre' offthe Sbn give his diﬀerence
from' the in'mm rutilixtwhat diﬅa ce will the obſcure
ſ 'l- 7 Act/'t A ll - _
arc of the oppoſite/blace'gvg. 1and knownng the
r p, e 1..- e,
ſeſſctghddatyr'ct-diﬅance of the W'placghfyou muſt
proceed to the end in the ſame' manner, as 'ſet
'forth in*Canon XIX, as iſ the obſcure arc were
ſemi-'diurnal or ſemi-nocturnal.
Suppoſe the Sun to be in 29" 31' of 437., as in'the
fourth example produced by Argo'l in his former
edition of Critical Days; if at be in 3o 21' of e,
with 1' 40' north 'latltude, as it is placed in the
more correct't'abſilesuin the tuum wher of I,
whoſe right aſcenſionvjsf-zbghs; tbiut as 'at'e de
clination is 'o' weenen, -it-happens>that-itsz]>a
ſi 'allel
ELEMENTARY PHlLOSOPHY. '195
rallel of declination falls in 29o 30' of x in the
ecliptic, to which the Sun moves by direction.
h. m'
(\
From the ſemi-nocturnal arc -- 7 23
. Arc of the crepul'cular, take -.-- t 43
Arc Which remains obſcure -. 5 32;
Right- aſcenſion - -- 30! 42
'Right aſcenſ. diﬅ. from the imum cell' 38 14.
Of 'be Part 29o 30' of x.
Semi-nocturnal arc - -- 6 o
Crepuſcnline arc -.- - I 42
The obſeure arc is by ſubﬅraction 4. 18
Right aſcenſion -- - 359 33
Primary diﬅance from the imum car-It' 96 5
Now, by the golden rule, if the Sun's obſcure
arc, 511 35', gives its diﬅance from the imum cell',
38o 14', the obſcure arc of the aſpect gives its
ſecondary diﬅance from the imum carl;" 29" 26',
which, taken from the primary, as both that
and the ſecondary diﬅance: of the oppoſite aſpect
or place, are from the ſame cardinal houſe and de
ſcendgnrthemiſphere, leayes the arc of direction
66.39','_fc_>rlſſthe equatioan add this to the Sun's
right aſcenſion, and make the aggriegate 36.821 ;
from which, after' ſubﬅraoting the integer circle
360, there remains 8.21, which anſwers to 9 of
er, nt which the Sun, from the hour of*the
nativity, arrives in 67 days, comprehendng ſo
' B b 2 man,
195 ASTRONOMY AND
many years oſ arr- age, wherein the native has
ſhewn liimſelflcapalne oſ diſcharging the-higheﬅ'
honours, and accordingly has been raiſed to them;
the rays meeting in the place of the direction, _the
quintile of Venus, and the ſextile oſ the Sun, pro
per. Another example of Card. Salviat: exPlained
further on_ to the 47th year. See therein a cal
culation of the Sun's direction to the parallelof
jupiter's declination. You may likewiſe perform
theſe calculations by logiﬅical logarithms. Theſe
two examples ſerve alſo for the ſubſequent Canon,
and are a convincng proof that 1 am right in my
Opinion. -See other'examples calculated in Charles
V. Francis I. King of France, and. others.
CANON XXlL
To direct vthe Sun, wheremrﬂund, to the Parallel:
lt was thought proper to call thoſe parallels,
which are commonly called antiſcions, it being ne
ceſſaryioglyefepf the lntiturle of the planets
taking them, l have only ſaid thoſe ﬅar_s_a'rc
alternately in the antiſcions, which deſcribe the ſame
parallel or parallels, as Ptolemy ſays; that is,
ſhin-which have [llzxſzlſEZAlSCllnathlh both in num
i her and name truthe primary antiſcions, callekF
place ofa-ﬁnds; or only in number, in thev'ﬃ'ſir
enmlary, which are places oſ authority and ſub
jection; wherefore, if you want to direct the Sun
to the parallels of a planet, ﬁrﬅ take their _ecli
nation, by obſerviiig)tlleir latitude, then theſſde
ſſ-K , v - ſ . _
' > ' 9' no m.-. p A_ . n"7{\\£4., GÞL/ 74: (I A. sum-14
' 9 -'
, ' , / ſ, . z 5 )
- r -< .\ - þzr
J-Av-u-va 4._( 3 v 4-ſi\' r' 4-14 1>7 . \\,OI.< In pvf-jz- to', ſm. L l
' l K p
'- 4 ' A ſ - - ' V;
ſ \,'},-' fen ,-,\ 'fz :ſſ\e'-v .- , w I e' - * .L'}"I, cake/ſ Aſ AL
\ ſi.
,- . p . _
l '2'1 a 1 . _ _. . -- a. 03.. I-varwz'vzf-TL
- _ _ , 4
.<-'.-_
p
BLEMENTARY PHXLOSOPHY- '97
greewfzias ecliptic, it will be ſaid to have reached
the parallel or antiſcions of thoſe ﬅars ; take there
fore the right or oblique aſcenſion of that degree
and minute of the ecliptic, the ſemi-diurnal or
nocturnal arc, the horary times and every thing
elſe, according as the ſituation of the Sun requires.
See the example in the former Canon.
CANON XXIII.
To direct the Signzſiﬂratar, 'wherever it isfound, ar
companied with Latitua'e, to the Conjunction and
Rays.
As the Sun, whilﬅ he is moved in a right direc
tion, advances above his real way, which is the
ecliptic, even ſo the other moderators, whoſe mo
tion is latitudinal, whilﬅ they are moved by the
direction, advance above their true and real way,
which is that of iZZſſlſſucceﬃve latitude; I ſay, ſuc
ceﬃve latitude, by reaſon that it is not always the
ſamriz-in the nativity, or in the beginning of the di-
rectign's motion, but is changed according as ſuch
prorogators vary theﬂdiﬅance from their nodes, as
has been obſerved, .thanuagthdekcopjupctionþin the
evil-r is. a. - . 0 *' 'r
Zodiac hapBZſinſſstheii the ﬁarsAhecome alternately
nearer, and the oppoſition in the gaze-alter'kaltefrnate
diﬅance, which; not omitting their latitudehhap
pens to he greater; conſequently the directions
of the prorogators moving latitudinally to the
conjunctions and rays in the Zodiac, above their
true and real latitudinal ways, ſhould be calculated,
omitting
'
198' 'ASTRONOÞ-LY AND
r/ſſ nr/WÞ'
omitting the latitude of thoſe Ithztiqſove'fwifﬀyr,
either through the conjunctions or rays. But the
Ways of directing, diﬀer in nothing from the above
mentioned, except that, what has been ſaid of the
Sun, conﬁituted below the Earth, is omitted in the
other _prorogat0rs; for having found the direc
tion's place, according to longitude and latitude,
that is, according to the latitude of the ſigniﬁcator
in the direction's place, in/prpportion to the tilſ-5
t'ance there from their nodeſſZZThe right or oblique
aſcenſion ofthat place, Why-taking the ſemi-diurnal
or ſemi-nocturual arc, the horary times, right diſ
rance, &e. always in the ſame manner, both above
and below the earth; of theſe mention has been
made. See examples in Charles Henry IV.
&c. &c. . " ' ' ſi
CANON XXlV,
To direct the Sig'zz'ﬁcator with Laritude, 'where-ver i;
is found, la the Parallel: of the Declinatian.
Firﬅ ﬁnd the declination of the ﬅars, to whoſe
paralleljheexﬁgniﬁcator is 'ſaid to be carried; then
in the of tye table/of declination, look up
or down tlfeﬀſgonrdyorcer of degrees and ſigne
from the ſigniﬁcator's place, changing alſo the la'
titude in the ſame manner; as the iigniﬁcator varies
inhis motion, _till you come to the declination of
the promittor'Zct'ﬅar founſZalbove drew; and
when you have obtained it, take the right aſcen
. sjﬁon or obliged-aſcenſion of. that place according to
v'its latitude oglo'ngitude, &c. and you will 'have
every
J
zLEME'N'rARY PHlLOSOPHY. '299
Every thing entirely in the ſame manner as before
explained. 'You have the example in Sebaﬅian',
King of Portugal, Ferd'mamd Gonzagius, Cardia
nal 'Salviata Zachia, Veroſpus, Spinells, and
others. See likewiſe the ſhven nativities, which;
for my own purpoſe, .I latelyeittnacted out of Ma
ginus 5 in all which, by an exact calculation, you
will Find that the trhe prorogator of life, when
choſen, as the doctrine of Ptolemy teaches, arrived
at ſuch a parallel of the declination, at the true
time 'of death. Yoſiu will know whether the
þrorogaror may fall in the parallels of decli _ation
of the ﬅars, by ohſerving the following-T: ſ the
prorogator leaves the tr0pics, ſo as to leſſen his
declination, he will fall on the parallels of thoſe
ﬅars, whoſe declination is leſs than his; and iſ,,'*
[ſe-1 o
from the eqxiiſinoctinſindl, On the parallels of greater
declination. *
CANON XXV;
To direct the Signi/Iſſmtar to the proper Rays in the
Zodiac.
Firﬅ mark out the proper ray of the ſigniﬁcator
longitudinally in the ecliptic, if it he the Sun; or
latitudinally, if the Moon, preſerving that latitude
which it hath in the place oſ the ray, according to
its diﬅance there from its nodes; then take the
'right or oblique aſceniioh of the aſpect longitndi
nally and latitudinally work according to the fore
gomg'
'on ASTRONOMY AND
going rule. See an example in Charles V. lVIezm
' while, take care that the angles are not directed to
the planetary rays in the Zodiac; neither to the
parallels, not' the pſſropcter raYs; for they receive
only the rays of the ﬅars taken in the world.
Theſe we ſhall mention in the followingl part.
ASTRONOMY
20: ]
ASTRONOMY
AND
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY,
TRANSLATED FROM Tﬂl LATIN 0'
PLACIDUS DE TITUS.
PART Ill.
Ya CALCULATVE the Diane-tuous to 'be Aspxcrs
. ',"ſi/l > zc/ſſo
in 0
,SPECTS iri oare proportional diſ
tances acquircd by motion round the world;
for every ﬅar after leaving the eaﬅ, when its diſ-,
tance is the third part of its diurnal arc, is in the ale
to the eaﬅ, the half part is in the quadrate;
when two - the parts ai'e in the A, then the
whole diurnal arc is in the 8 , for it is in the weﬅ;
therefore the ﬁrﬅ houſe has the * with the
eleventh and third houſes, quadrate with the tenth
a_nd fourth, A with the ninth and ﬁfth. The re'- -
cond houſe has its * with the twelfth and fourth,
its quadrate with the eleventh and ﬁfth, its A with
* ' C c the
zoz ASTRONOMY AND
the tenth and ſixth. The third houſe hath its zt
with the ﬁrſt and ﬁfth, its quadrate with the
twelfth and ſixth, its trine with the eleventh and
ſeventh; >
And thus the other houſes always in the ſame
manner, through the diurnal and nocturnal arcs,
diﬀer riatiifaflſzſſjK t "The ﬅars'falfo have their mutual
aſpects alternately from thoſe houſes, which, with
ſuch rays as are taken in the world, vghatever may
be their latitude or declination,Jarther, as thoſe
houſes have no real exiﬅence, and no diﬅinction,
or are proper by nature, force, or limits, but from
the ﬂars; ſo that if they had no exiﬅence, and
did not move round the world, there could be no
place in the heavens for the houſes or their par
titions, as I have fully demonﬅrated in' the Philo
ſophy of the Heavens. Now, the houſes are not
alternately aſpected; with reſpect to one another;
butlif the ſtars that aſpect, conﬅitute, and are the
meaſure of the' houſes; 'and'for 'this reaſon they
mutually and alternately nſpelct each other from
thoſe houſes; and to theſe and the cardinal ſigns
they direct their aſpects. But in the partition of
the houſes by the duplicate horary times; or ac
cording to Ptolemy, by the two temporal hours,
nbmſpe'ct is had to the ecliptic, juﬅ as the e w a
nb ecliptic in the heavens; but m _
be cbnﬁneito the diurnal and nocturnal arc of
the ﬅars; and it follows, that even the aſpects of -
the ﬂarsto the houſes, and 'vice virſa,-from the
' * houſes,
u u full!
'
4
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY 18'
houſes, which I thought ﬁt to call mundane, have
nomſpect to the ecliptic, but to thek diurnal and
nocturnal arc of every ſingle ﬅar, or to their mo
tion round the world. All this, if rightly under-ſſ
ﬅood, will render every calculation in this third
part perfectly eaſy.
4 CANON XXVI.
To direct 'be Cardinal Signs to the Conjunction: and
Oppq/Ftian. V) 5 A C/
If you direct the right cardinal ſign, (take its
right aſcenſion from that of the occurrent ﬅar,
preſerving its latitude, and the remainder is the
arc of 'direction required. In like manner to the
. oppoſition, keeping to the contrary latitude. If
you direct the cardinal ſign of the aſcendant, take
its oblique aſcenſion from that of the occurrent
ﬅar, carrying the oblique aſcenſion of both to the
latitude of thehcop-ntryzl, always preſerving the
'latitude of the Oppqﬁtcte ﬅar,' the remainder will be
the arc of direction required. To the 8 uſe the
aſcenſions of the oppoſite places. The aſcendant
may be directed to vthe ﬅars without the oblique
aſcenſion; for if you ſubﬅract'the ſemi-diurnal
arc, from the ﬅar's right aſcenſion and from the
' remainder, take the rigſiht aſcenſion of theme-dium
m-Ii, what remains, is the arc of direction re
quired. Or, if you ſubﬅract the ﬅars primary
diﬅance, that is, betwixt it and the imum cell',
from its ſemi-nocturnal arc, the remainder is the
ſi C c 2 arc
104- - ASTRONOMY AND
arc of direction. But if the ﬁar has not rſſeached
the imum twli, add its primary diﬅance from the
imum car/i to its ſemi-nocturnal arc, and the ſum
will be the arc oſ direction. .
Theſe calculations are eaſy, and need no examA
ple; and from what will be ſaid afterwards, they
will ﬅill be eaſier. To the ﬁxedſv'iiſiictiike manner,
by the aſcenſions, &e. by taking their oblique aſ
cenſion, with the help of the aſcenſional diﬀerence,
if their latitude be extenſwe.
* CANON xxvn.
'73 direct zze' Mdium 0in to ib: Slxtile, Qui-tile,
and Trine.
- Now, it is plain from what has been ſaid, that
the intermediate rays &tho-rays to. the angles, are.
taken by dividing the ſemiznocturnal or ſemi-_diur-..
nal nrc into three equal parts; or, which is the ſame,
ctby doubling the horary times of the aſpecting ﬅars',
by which is known the ſpace of the houſes, as
longitude, what the meaſure is, degreeſiþctſcttſſlipctſe
ſtars in their motions tonnd the world. When this
is known, it is very eaſy to calculate the directions
of the angles to the intermediate rays of the ﬅars;
for the ſeitilc is the diſtance of two houſes, the
quaidme three, the trine four ;f-T theſe are
called ſecondary diﬅances. ' So if you want the
a: to the nicdium cer/i, which begins from the
'eighth houſe, add-she two diurnal houſes, that is,
the 'ﬅars diurnal horary times twice doubled tov the
' ct aſcenſion.
. r
ELBMENTARY' PHlLOSOPHY. 20;
'24.713 aſcenſion. If yogtwayrtthe other Sextile, which is X
ſ produced by the houſes, ſubſiract in the
ſame manner the two diurnal houſes from the
right aſcenſion, from theiremainder take the right
aſcenſion of the 'nt-dium cell', and it will give the
arc of direction. But if you ſeek for the Trine
which originates from the ſixth houſe, ſubﬅract thn
two nocturnal houſes from the ﬅars right' aſcen
lion: if you ſeek for the other Trine, which comes
from the ſecond houſe, add the two nocturnal
houſes to the ſtars right aſcenſion, and from the
remainder or ſum, ſubﬅract the right aſcenſion
of the imum teſi, the remainder will be the arc
of direction of the medium cell' to the A o them
Laﬅly, if you want the arc of direction to
the quadrate, direct the ſtar to the horizon, as
above mentioned; but if you have already the pri
mary' diſtance of the ﬅartfrom the medium twli of
the ﬅarſlin the aſcendant part of heaven, ſubﬅract
the ſecondary of the ſextile from the primary ofthe
ﬅar from the mrdoir/(mccwlﬂ and you will have the ſex
Fil'e arc ofdirectidn_'to the medium ere/i; ſuhﬅract that
ﬅar's primary diﬅance from the imum cSZ'iefrom the ſſ
ſextile's ſecondary, and you will have the_di'tection's-<
mto the trine of the medium cwli. But if the ﬅar
is in the deſcending part ofheaven, ſubﬅract its pri
mary diﬅance from the medium cwli from thatﬂof
the ſextilezſecondary, and you will have tlideirieca'
.kian3szarc to the ſextile. Subﬅract the ſecond-try
of the ſextiles- to the imum ate/i, from the ﬁars
primary
" A' .
(a a14,
2c6 ASTRONOMY AND
an at,
primary diﬅance, and you will have the directions
ars-Qf the trine. But if the ﬅar paſſes from the
aſcendant, to the deſcendant part of heaven, or on
the contrary, add both diﬅances together, and you
will have the arc of direction. ﬁs- *ﬁ.
Note. The A ray to the mcdz'um ca-[i isAthe imum
car/1', and the * to the mcdium cas/i is the A to the
imum cer/i. Laﬅly, the rays to the angles are ea
ſily calculated by the oblique aſcenſion, of every
houſe; for after taking the ﬅars oblique aſcenſion,
under the pole of that houſe, from which it emits
the ray to the medium car/i, and taking the oblique
aſcenſion of the houſe, from that of the ﬅar, there
will remain the arc of direction required. But if
the ﬅar goes to project the ray to the deſcending
part of heaven, uſe the obliqUe aſcenſion of the
\ oppoſite place, and this method is of uſe alſo in the
' 'following Canon, being of all, the mle 6161)edl[i-.
OUs. '
* CANON XXVIII.
To direct the Oblique, Cardi'zal Sign to 'be Sexlik,
EZuartiIc, and Trinc.
If you require the rays to the horoſcope, which
- are projected from ſupra-terraneous places, divide
the ſemi-diurnal arc of the aſpect-ing ﬅar into three
e pan/parts, or into two diurnal horary times, and
you will have the ſpaces oſ the houſes that are
aboutkthe earth. lſ you add two of theſe to the ﬅars
oblique aſcenſion, taken in the horoſcope, and from
the
'
ILEMBNTARY PHXLOSOPHY. io7
the ſum ſubﬅract the horoſcope oblique aſcenſion,
what remains isvthe horoſcope's arc of direction
to the ſextile's: of the ﬅars, produced from the
eleventh houſe; but if you add the four houſes,
and from the'ſum ſubﬅra'ct the horoſCOpe's oblique
aſcenſion, You will have the arc of direction to the
trine which is cauſed by the ninth houſe.
Another uay.-Subﬂract one houſe from the ﬅars
right aſcenſion, and 'from the remainder take the
right aſcenſion of the mediumra-li, and there will
remain the direction's arc to the ſextiie'eg add one
houſe to the ﬅars right aſcenſion; from the ſum
ſubﬅract that of the mcdz'um cet/i, and 'you will have
the direction's arc to the trine, that is, to the ho
roſcope. '
But if you are deſirous to ﬁnd the rays that are
emitted from ſubterraneous places, v'divide the ﬅar
ſemi-nocturnal arc into three eqhal partsj'itsjſoc
turnal horary times, and you will have the ſpace
of the houſes that are below the earth; of theſe,
for the ſextile, 'which proceeds from the third houſe,
h'y ſubﬅracting two; and frggſſthe trine, which is
produced from the fifth, by ſubſiracting four from
the ﬅars oblique aſcenſion taken in the horoſcope ;
and if from theremainders you ſubﬅract the horo
ſcope's obliqUe aſcenſion, you will have the arcs of
direction to the ſex'tile and trine. You may alſo
uſe the imum ca-li by the right aſcenſion, as has
been' ſaid of the medium m'li. (luadrat'e rays are
produced by the medium tell' and the imum ces-II;
there
'08 ASTRONOMY AND
therefore, in ead of theſe, direct the ﬅars to the
medium and imzim cell', as has been ſaid in Canon
XXVI. Let there be an example for both' Ca
nons, under the Pole's elevation 4E, the aſcendant
13.3o of Ulh the medium (Ell-s Let us ſuppoſe
12' O' of In, whoſe right aſcenſion 219.;3 the
horoſgope's oblique aſcenſion 309.33. ZÞ- the
Sun in 1" 0' of ice, within the twelfth houſe,
the Sun's right aſcenſion 27!o 5', the oblique aſ
cenſion to the Pole 45, is 296.5r ; the diurnal hoa
tary times 10" 42', which, being doubled, conﬅi
tute the diurnal houſes, or the third part of the
Sun's ſemi-diurnaalnafl0 24'. Butjſ I want todia
rect the horoſcopeito the ſextile oſthe Sun, I add
to the oblique aſcenſion, do the Sun's horary t' es,
twice doubled, which make4339.39. From t "il
ſubﬅract the horoſcope's oblique aſcenſion, and there
remains the arc of direction 300 6'. And obſerve,
that the arc of dire ion conſiſts of 8O 44' of the
preceding; and 'likewilizſſbſ the Sun's duplicate ho
rary times; that isZ'dne houſe, or 21.24. Where
fore, from the bare addinglof this one houſe to the
computed direction of the ſextile to the Medium
tE/ſ, there ariſes the boanfeapefs arc of direction leg:
the Sun's ſextileﬂ a. ';:- x-(O Pa a
I want to direct Hcthe horoſcope to the quitt
tileoſ the Sun: I ſubſiract the right aſcenſion of
the ma'ium chi from that of the Sun, and there
remains the arc of direction, 51.32; or_to the ſex
tiie's arc of direction 30.6, above calculatedJ I
add
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. no,
add the ſur'i' duplicate diurnal herary times 21.24,
and the arc oſ (lll'ectlonfSl-SO." In likejmunner,
if to this I add the duplica'te, horary-times, l make
the arc of direction-to the trine of the horoſcope,
72.54.. Again-(i add to this the geminated horary
times; the direction's arc A mediu'ncwli, to the
Sun's ſextile, will he 94.18, and ſo in all of them.
Under the Earth, we muﬅ malte uſe of the noct-ur
nal horary times, the Wﬃctumal are, but the' * *
direction both of the tardinal ſigns and houſes to '
the rays of the ſextile, quartile, and trine, are cal-
culated (in a manner much eaſier than any of the
&ſore-mentioned) by the oblique aſcenſion of thoſe'
1 houſes from which the ﬅars project the rays, as is
before recited, and as may be ſeen in the former
Canon. This Canon needs no other example, ne
vertheleſs you will meet with ſeveral in the ſequil.
CANON XXl-X. ' '
To direct 'be Cardinnl Signs to the Rays tfrbe Quintzſih
'c-Stſ i-guadrate and Biquimik.
Beſide the uſual rays of the >j<, a, A, and 8,
I only ſuppoſe the quintile, ſeſqui-quadrate, and hi- '
quintile, to be powerful, as experience evinces from i '
the ſymmetrical concerts of ſdund,. from which
the very excellent Kepler, in a moﬅ exquiſite man
ner of reſemblance, collects the rays of the ﬅars in
the heavens. Whatever may be the Opinion of others
with regard to the ſemi-ſex'tile, ſemi-quadrate, and ſſ
D d ' ſeveral
are ASTRONOMY AND
ſeveral others, to which it ſeems quite abſurd to
aſſign any eﬃcacy, (with this one exception) I con
feſs, that in the ſame quadrate's diﬅances, ſounds
begin to arrive at a degree of harmony, but al
together imperfect to this, therefore ſome portion
of eﬃcacy may be attributed; and on this princi
ple I think that neither the Sun nor Moon become
the'FrTorroZZitiou of life, except they be ſemi-qua
drate diﬅance from the horoſcope, or half of their
. ſemi-diurnal arc-Above itjﬄmay eaſily calculate
the ſeſqui-quadrate ray to the cardinal ſigns, for it
conſiﬅs of the quarter of the world, and half of
another quarter; or of the ſemi-diurnal or noctur
nal arc; and alſo of half of the ſame, or another,
ſo that the ﬅars have this ray to the medium twli,
and the eaﬅ, in the mean diﬅance between the weﬅ
and imum cazli; to the mtdz'um car/i and weﬅ, in the
mean diﬅance from the imum calf to the eaﬅ ; to the
weﬅ and imum cur/i, in the middlellbſſeſſﬀen the eaﬅ
and themedium melt', to the" _ MZZFd eaﬅ; in themid
dlngtſiweEn the medimitrand the weﬅ. For the cal
culation, divide the ſemi-diurnal arc into two equal
parts; or as occaſion requires, the ſemi=nocturnal
of the ﬅars; and this half part is the ſecondary
diﬅance from both the cardinal ſigns, as before
mentioned-In the example of the former Canon,
the Sun forms the ſeſqui-quadrate to the weﬅ, and
to the imum cer/i, when it is the mean diﬅance be
tween the eaﬅ and medium cell', the Sun's ſemi-di
urnal
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. at,
urnal arc is 64.12, the halſof this 32.6; where
forel ſubﬅract this ſecondary diﬅance from the
primary, which is betwixt it and the medium ra-Iz',
beingr 51.32, and there remains the arc of direction
19.26. But as this ſeCOndary diﬅance, as well
from the preceding as the ſuccedent cardinal houſe,
is the ſame, the Sun's primary diﬅance from the
eaﬅ is 1240. I ſubﬅract this from the ſecondary,
and the remainder is the ſame arc of direction,
19.26. Likewiſe, half the ſame ſemi-diurnal arc
conſiﬅs of the triplicate horary times; wherefore,
iſ we add the Sun's horary times to its diſtance
from the twelfth houſe, which was the arc of di
rection of the medium ca-lz' to the Sun's * , that is. '
8.44, the Sun's horary times are 1042; the ſum
is the are of direction 19.26. You ſee, therefore,
there are ſeveral ways of directing the angles to
the aſpects of the ﬅars; but to calculate the rays
quintile and biquintile with eaſe and exactneſs, we
muﬅ underſtand the Pentagonal ﬁgure in the op
poſite plate, wherein the point A may repreſent
any cardinal ſign of the world, or any other ſigni
ﬁcator to be directed to the qu-intile and biquintile :
the points F, G, H, are the other three cardinal
ſigns; B is the end ofthe quintile, C of the biquinq
tile, D the point of another quintile, E of another A. '
biquintile, and F of the oppoſition; the ' ſif"
A G, C F, F H, H A, are thgﬂuadratgsagr quar
ters of the world, or arcs, which, \ the ﬅars in
thoſe quarters? are ſemi-diurnal or ſemi-nocturnal,
i D d 2 which
at: ASTQONOMY ANU
_which may be various in quantity, according to the
variety of the declination of the ﬅars, and altitude
of the pole. If the point A may be ſaid to be the
Medium melt', divide the ſemi-diurnal arc of the aſ:
pecting ſtar into ﬁvſie equal parts, four of which
conſiitute the ray quintile, both itſſtlþctbints D and B :.
Alſo let the ſemi-nocturnal arc be diſiitled into ﬁve
equal parts; three parts after addhlg'Athe whole ſe
mi-diurnnl arc, conſiitute the biquintile rays in the
point E C; ſo that two parts out.of ﬁve oſ the
ſemi-nocturnal arc are wcinting to the Oppoﬁtion,
But iſ the point A repreſents the horoſcope four
out oſ ﬁve parts of the ſemi-(liurnal arc, make'
the quintile above the earth ſo many of the ſemL
nccturnnl arcs under the earth; adding the other
four to hoth oſ them, make the hiquintile. It is
to he known likewiſe that the quintile my, corn.
pared to the *, is greater than the * by its ﬁfth
part; ſor it conſiﬅs of twelve parts more than the
a: , which is the 5th part cf the * , or 6o_ſſſ>ctarts ;
compared to the quadrate, it is leſs by ﬁve parts of
the ſame quadrate, that is; 180, which are the
ﬁfth part oſ that a, or 90; and the þiquintile is
* greater than the A, by its ﬁfth part, viz. 24, which
me the ﬁſtl) pert of the trigon or 1209, but is leſs
' than the 8 by ﬁve parts, that is, 36 oſ theg , viz,
180, or three parts out oſ ﬁve oſ the *, that is,
maden/the 8 ; from theſe it is inferred that there
are two ways very eaſy to calculzite the directions
of theſe rays. *
The
ELEMENTARY PHILOSQPHY. at)
The ﬁrﬅ is, by adding the quintile's diﬅance to
the aſcenſion of the aſpecting ﬅar, iſ it preceds
the cardinal ſign that is directed; or by ſubﬅract
ing, if it follows; and from the ſum or remainder,
ſuhﬅracting the cardinal aſcenſion for the re
mainder, is the arc of direction required.
Let there be an example of the Qgintile.
We have ſaid in the ahove given example, the
Sun's oblique aſcenſion is 296.51, that is, to the
latitude of the country; the ſemi-diurnal arc 64.:2,
the ﬁfth part of which is 12.50; which taken
from ſithe whole ſemi-diurnal arc, leaves four of the
ﬁve parts oſ that ſemi-diurnal arc, viz. 51.22. I
add theſe to the Sun's oblique aſcenſion taken in
the horoſc0pe, as it precedcs it; and I make the
aggregate 348.!3, from which I ſuhﬅract the ho
roſcope's oblique aſcenſion, and there remains the
arc of direction 38.4o, viz. the quintile of Sol to
the horoſcope. Or I ſubﬅract 51.22 from the
Sun's right aſcenſion, which is 2710. 5', by reaſon
it ſncceeds the medium casli, and the remainder is ,
219 43; from theſe ſubﬅracting the right aſcenſion
of the medium cer/i, which is 219.33, leaves the
mea'z'um cwlz' arc of direction to the dſſun's quintile
0O Io'; 0r I ſubﬅract the quimile's ſecondaryd-L
diﬅance, which is 51.:2, froth
the Sun's primary diﬅance from the mcdiu-vi caeli,
which is 51\.32, and there remains the ſame arc
oſ direction. 0- ro' i
Of the biquintile, care muﬅ he taken, that iſ we
Want to ſubﬅract the diﬅance of this ray, which
conſiﬅs
an ASTRONOMY AND
conſiﬅs of eight parts out of tenvof the whole di.
umal or nocturnal arc, when to thjeſſﬀys we direct
eitherxo-the rite-dium or imum twli; inﬅead of theſe
five parts, We muﬅ take the whole ſemi-diurnal or
nocturnal arc of the aſpecting ﬅar of the other he,
miſphere; the other three of the ſame hemiſphere
in which the ﬅar remains; but of the'biquintile,
let us reject this method. The eaſier way', which
alſo ſerves for all theſe rays, whenever the ſigniv'
ﬁcators, as we call them, are found out of the care
dinal ſigns, is this: ſſ
When you have found the irectio , either to
ſextile, quartile, or oppoſition from/IN, adding
or ſubﬅracting the proportional parts, by which
the quintile, ſeſqui-quadrate, and biqu-intile, are
greater or leſs than the other ray, we ſhall obtain
'the arc of direction; for if you have the arc of
direction 'to the * , and want the ſame to the quin
tile, add tothe quintile, tfjr'be ſubſequent,tor_ſub'
fir-act if it precedes the ﬁfth part of the ſextilexfrom
its arc of direction, and the remainder or aggregate
is the arc of direction required.v But remember, the
* conſiﬅs of the diurnal horary times, four times
computed, if the aſpecting ﬅar be above the earth ;
of the nocturnal, if below. Or if you have the
direction to the Haizq'iizjior the quintile add, if it
ſucceed; or ſubﬅract, if the quintile precede the
ﬁfth part of the guadratez'from that quartile's arc of
direction, i
If
ZLEMBNTARY PHILOSOPHY. m;
_ If you have the direction to the trine, and want
that of the ſeſqui-quadrate, add, if this follows, or
ſubﬅract, if precedes the horary times of the
afpecting ﬅar, whereby the ſeſqui-quad rateis greater
than the trine. When l fay horary times, under
ﬁand diurnal, if the aſpectiug liar be above the
earth, &c.
If you require the direction's arc to the biquin
tile, and have already the arc of direction to the
trine,multiply four times the diurnal horary times of
the aſpecting ſtar, if it beabove the earth; the nec
turnal, if under the earth ; and from the product,
take two of the ﬁve parts, which add, if the bi
quintile ſucceed: the trine; but ifit precedes, ſub
ﬂract from the trine's arc of direction, and the re
mainder or ſum is the arc of direction to the hi
quintile ; but if you have the direction's arc to the
oppoſition, take two of the ﬁve parts of the ﬅar's
ſemi-diurnal arc, if it is above the earth; or ſemi
nocturnal, if below; and if the biquintile ſuc
ceeds the Oppoſition,add to the ſame direction's arc;
but if it precedes, ſubﬅract theſe two parts, and the
remainder, or ſum, is the arc of direction to the
biquintile. As in theexample of the former Canon,
the arc of direction of the medium err/i to the Sun's
ſextile is 844., the Sun's horary times, as being above
the Earth diurnal, are 1044.; four times computed
make the ſextile's quantity 4248, whoſe ﬁfth part
is 834.; I therefore take 8.34 from the ſextile's arc
of direction, of the quintile' to the 'ntdzſium
ctkli,
in' mits'rRo'NoMY AND
tarli, becauſe it precedes the ſextile, and there re- -
mains the arc oſdirection to theSun's quintile 00 to',
The direction of the imum m-Ii to the Sun's ſeſqui
quadr'ate, as it follows the trine, is had by adding
the Sun's diurnal horary times 10.42, to the drc
of direction of the mtdium cell to its *, which
is the A to the imum cer/i, and the arc of direc
tion becomes 19.26, as above.
Of the imm cas/1', to the Sun's biq'uintile, by ad'
ding, as it ſucceeds the A, two oſ the ﬁfth part
oſ the Sun's diurnal *, becauſe it is above the .
Earth, which, as we have*ſaid, is 42.48, whoſe
ﬁſth part 8.34,' doubled, makes t7.8; wherefore
the arc of direction becomes 25. 2.
Arm/ner way --The directionsp the mcdium cer/i
to the Sun, or iſ the imum car/i to the Sun's , is
51.32, from this l ſubſiract, as the biquintile pre
cede: three parts out of ﬁve of the * of the Sun's:
diurnal are, that is, 25.40, and there 'remains
the arc of direction 25.52, as above.
' The direction of the horoſcope toſi the Sun's
quintile is thus obtained : _
We have already, in the former Canon, calculated'
the Sun's ſextile to the horoſc0pe, which was
30.6; to this I add, as the quintile ſucceeds the
ſextile, the ﬁſth part of gthe Sun's ſextile ray, which'
is 8.34, and I make the-viii" ctdſiſc'oeincſirection to
the quintile of the Sun 3340: . *
Arm/ac' Method-The Sun'sﬂſemi-diurnal are,
which is the quadrate t'o the 64.!2.
that
LLEMBNTAaY PHIBOSOPHY. 2.;7
that is, ofthe diſtance, not oſdirection, its ﬁfth part
is 1,2.5o,, which aife the Sun's ſecondary diﬅance
from the medium cmli, the primary is 51.32; from
Which, ſubﬅracting that ſecondary one, leaves the '
arc of direction 38.42, greater than the former
by twogbyctreaﬃſſof the ſractions that are to be
- met with in the diﬀerent calculations.
We have ſaid that the horoſcope direction to
the Sun's trine, was 72.56; to this I add the Sun's
horary times, lo.42, andI make the horoſcoPe
arc of directions;- to the Sun's ſeſqui-quadrate,
83.38; or I add the Sun's ſemi-diurnal arc, 64.12,
U' the arc of direction of the imum cerI, to the
Sun's ſeſquizqſua'dlﬂez <which was, as we have ſaid,
19.26, and/she ſame Foot-hate: the aic of direction,
83.38.
And it is the ſame in all of them; ſo that by
addition and ſubﬅraction only, the direction oſ
thoſe rays may he calculated with the greateﬅ
exactneſs. But iſ any one would provide himſelf
with a Ptolemaic Aﬂrobate, with the horary cir
cles, crepuſcules, the Zodiac's latitude, and all other
things requiſite, it. would be of very great ſervice
towards foreſeeing the aſpects, beforaithe calcula
tion, both oſ this and the following Canons.
CANON XXX.
To direct any Signiﬁmtor, being placed round t/jc CWÞ
ler ofthe Cardinal Iſou as, to the 6 and 8 ,
Underﬀand this, as within 30 beyond, or on this
i ﬁde the cuſp, the right aſcenſion of the Prorogator,
E e I if
us ASTRONOMY AND
if he pgſſeſſes the right circle; or the obliquejf the
oblique, be taken to elevation of the
houſe in which it remainsſiſubﬅract from the right
- aſcenſion of the occurrentlor the oblique, taken to
the ſame pole, preſervi'ng the latitude of both, and
the remainder is the are ofdirection required. In the
oppoſition, the-&Mſlatitude of the occurrent
is preſerved; the diﬃerenﬂgeuin regard to preſerving the
latitude, between this;
Canon, XVlI.and XVIlI. is,
that the 6 "and 8I are 'there taken in the Zodiac,
but here in they? aſpects in the ſame real
longitude, but theſe in ;thezliorary circle: as inſifi
example, Canon XVlﬂfhe right aſcenſion of 9 ,
with latitude, is 26I.52, from which, ſubﬅracting
the right aſcenſion of the Sun, which is 215.58,
there remains the Sun's arc of direction to the 6
of 2 in 45.54.
Concerning the Sun conﬅituted below the Earth,
the things to be avoided ſhall be mentioned in a
proper Canon, viz. XXXV. The ſigniﬁcator, when
found diﬅant from the cuſp of the houſe, is direct
ed in the fame manner ax explained in Canon
XIX. except only that the latitude of both ſhould,
as we have remarked, be preſerved.
CANON XXXI.
To direct any Signi/z'catar, when near Cardinal Houſes,
tothe *,!:I,or A.
If the ſigniﬁcator has the ſame aſcenſion exactly
to minutes, as the angle, or the other houſes,
wherein
____ ,..___.--\
ILEMENTARY PH'ILOSOPHY. at,
wherein he is found, then, as it is in the center, the
directions to the ſextile quartile, and trine, are
made like thoſe of the angle, as before explained:
but if it is not on thecuſp, exact to the minutes,
provided its diﬅance be not more then 30 of the
eguator, add theſſ aſcenſion or decenſion of the
ſigniﬁcator to the angle, or houſe, ſo that the
ſigniﬁcator may be conﬅituted in the cuſp of the
angle or houſe. According to this ſituation, by ad
ding or ſubﬅracting 30o you will conﬅitute the af
cenſions of the other houſes as uſual; and by ſub-'
ﬅracting the aſcenſions of the houſes (whence the
ﬅar aſpects the ſigniﬁcator) from the aſcenſion of
that ﬅar, taken under the pole ofthe ſame houſes,
you will have the arc ofdirection. As for example,
in Cardinal Gymnaſeus, the Sun is in the ninth
houſe, not 30 of the equator diﬅant from the cuſp,
the oblique aſcenſion of the Sun's Oppoſite place
under the pole of the third houſe, which is 18, is
314®.o'. I want todirect the Sun to the ſextile of
Jupiter, which Jupiter has to the Sun from the cen
ter ofthe weﬅ, wherefore I ſubﬅract 60 from the ob
lique aſcenſion of the third houſe, conﬅituted in the
Sunioppoſitoſipnd there remains the horoſcope's ob
lique aſcenſion 254.o, that is, ſuppoſing that the Sun
remains in the center of the ninth houſe, though in
deed it is about 30 diﬅance. Laﬅly, I ſubﬅract this
. aſcenſion of the horoſc0pe 254. from the oblique aſ
cenſion of Jupiter's oppoſite, taken in the horoſcope,
which is 296.52, and there remains the arc of
- ' E e 2 direc
220 ASTRONOſiMY AND
direction, 42.52, ſor the ſubſequent ſquare which
Jupiter has to the Sun from the ſigh-'houſe- I add
to this arc of direction, the duplicate/'horary noe'
Mna-ltimes of u, by reaſon that the 6th houſe is
below the Earth : for the A I add again the dupli
' cate horary nocturnal times oſ '11 .
CANON XXXlI.
To direct any Sigmﬁcator, 'when found out aftlae Cm
rrr tﬀ the Cardinals and Hot-ﬁr, ta the * , U,
and' A .
Find the horary times of the ſigniﬁcator, or its
ſemi-diurnal arc, if it be above the earth; or its
ſemi-nocturnal arc, if below, vand the diſtance of
the cen-ters of the preceding or ſucceeding houſes,
as you pleaſe, Find alſo the horary times, the
ſemi-diurnal arc, or ſemi-nocturnal arc ofthe pro
mittors, with this proviſo, Jf the promittor's ray,
" to which you direct the ſigniﬁcatore; projects
from places above the earth, take the diurnal hop
rary times, or ſemi-diurnal arc; and below the
earth, the nocturnal horary times, or the ſemi
noctnrnal arc; but that you will know from the
houſes; ſor the whole tenth houſe has all the ele
ﬃwg/ſt? Ninth-and eighth houſes for the ſextile; to the ﬁrſt
and ſeventh, for a quartile; the ſecond and ſixth,
for trine; and ſo of the reſte-Artery, By the
Golden Rule, iſ the horary times of the ſigniﬁ
cator give its diſtance from the houſe, what will
he the diﬅance "of t'he'promittor's horary times?
The
ELEM'ENTARY PHILOSOPHY. zzz
The fourth number that is produced, is the ſecon
dary diﬅance of the promittor from the center of
either the preceding or ſUCCeeding houſe,_after the
ſame mannerjſſyou have ſeems of the ſigniﬁcator,"
from this houſe, the my is emitted by that promit
tor to the ſigniﬁcator, wherefore, if that houſe
precedes the promittor in both diﬅances, primnry
and ſecondary, ſubſlract the leſſer from the greater.
So alſo, if it follows in both the diﬅancesﬄ But
ﬁnally, if in the one diﬅance it precede-inn the
other it follows; ſo that the promittor, by the mo
tion of the direction, has paſſed through its cuſp,
add both di'ﬅances, and- the remainder or ſum is
the arcof direction required. Let the example be
in Card/'nal Salviatis.-I would direct the D to the
a of u, which has this ray to the 1) from the
ſixth houſe. The D 's hornrytimes diurnal, are 19.5;
diﬅance from the medium cer/i, 1024. 'LL's ho
rary times nocturnal, is l4.32, and diſtance from
the ſeventh houſe, 8.59. For the oblique aſcen
ſion of the 8 of 11. is 193.I; from which, ſuhﬅract
ing the oblique aſcenſion of the horoſcope, there
remains the diﬅance 8.59 of Jupiter. But by the
Golden Rule, there nriſes the ſecondary diﬅance of
LL from the weﬅ 7.55, which, added to the pri
mary, becauſe 11. in the nativity is above the weﬅ,
and is placed below, when the direction is com
plete, makes the arc of direction I6.54.. To this di
rection of the duplicate hor r ti ,s nocturnal of
u, be added, as he now ſhiictTZ-Mate lower he
ct miſpherc,
22.', AST,RONOMY AND
. I-fwnﬄv . . .
miſphereM the arc of direction to the A of 1; 23:
4548; but if you want the D's direction to the i
* of I; , take the horary times diurnal of h, to.
gether with its primary diﬅance from the twelfth
houſe, the fourth emerging number is the ſecond.
ary diﬅance from the twelfth houſe; from which,
ſubﬅracting the primary, becauſe the diﬅance from
both is from the ſucculent houſe, and the remainder
' is the arc of direction required. lf you want the
.])'s direction to the A of 2 , find the horary
times nocturnal of 2 , as it is below the Earth;
and its diſtance from the ſixth houſe, by the oh,
quue aſcenſion of the oppoſite places at*'the twelfth
houſe. The fourth number that is produced, is a
fecondary diﬅance of L from the ſixth houſe;
from which, ſnhſiract the primary, which is leſs,
ctſſſſ the ſecondary, as the diﬅance of both is from
the ſuccedent houſe, and the remainder is the arc
of direction required. And obſerve, that the ﬁrſt
number oſthe Golden Rule, is always either the
ſemi-diurnal arc, or the horary times of the ſigni
ﬁcator; the ſecond is the diﬅance of the ſame from
one houſe.
CANON XXXlIl.
To df'rct any Signiſimtar, u'larrwcr paſ/ſitcd, to 'be
' Qyimilc, Srſqui-quadmtt, or Biguinli/c.
The method is nearly the ſame as that explained
in Canon XXlX. for when any direction is
known, whether it be of the ſextile or qual-tile,
trine
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOFHY. 22;
trine, or oppoſition, from only adding or ſub
ﬅracting the pr0portional part, whereby the rays
of the quintile, ſefqui-quadrate and biquintile, ei
ther exceed, or are leſs than Either rays, is pro
duced the arc of directionþ/iſsct in the example of
C'ara'inal Salviazis; the 1) 's arc of direction to the
A of 11. is 45 48. lf we add the nocturnal horary
times of 'LL 14.32,Fw£911n*2215e the D's arc of dirtcz
tion to the ſeiilui-qu'm/tile oſf u 63.3o. But if.the
ſame' arcof direction of the A 4548, we add two
of the ﬁve parts of u's nocturnal * , which con
ſiﬅs of his quadrutgisate nocturnal horary times,
that is, 58.!8 of theﬅſifth partiof theſe are 23.I6,
we make the I) 's arc of direction to the biquintile
of '11. 69.I4. But ſirﬅ of all care muﬅ he taken,
that if the rays are emitted from the ſu'perior
places above the Earth, the proportional parts of
the rays to be added or ſuhﬅractcd, ſhould he
taken by the diurnal horary times, or hy the ſemi
d'iurnal arc 'of the aſpecting ſtar; but if from the
inferior places, or undcr the liar-th, by the nocc
turnal, as you have ſeen in the given example.
The ſecond neceſſary caution is, that to the adding
or ſuhﬅracting for the my which is projected from
the ſubterraneous places, we cannot make uſe of the
my which is emitted from thoſeſubterraneous places;
or the contrary, becauſe their tranſit is from one
quantity of the horary times to another; from the
one hemiſphere to the other; from the ſemi-diurnal
to the ſemi-nocturnal arc, or the contrary, from .
whth
42.; ASTkONOMY AND
which a true proportion cannot be had; but it is
neceſſary, that for the ray which is projected from
the ſubterraneous places, we add or ſubﬅract the
proportional part from the ray which is found
above the Earth, and likewiſe under the Earth,
as in the example oſ Cardinal Salſuiatis, the direc
tion ok-'the quintile of 'LL to the 1) , cannot he talcgg2
b ſubﬅra ion from the direction oſ theaglguie'
asy this Et' _ le'low the Earth, the guintile abov/e:
YVhereſore, in ſuch caſes as theſe, let the diﬅances
ofthe rays of the * , a , and A, be taken in the ſame
hemiſphere in which the ﬁgniﬁcator remains, if
they ſall upon that ſame hemiſphere; but if they
fall in the other, in which the oppoﬁtion of the
ﬁgniﬁcator falls, they muſſﬅ be taken in the other,
as in the example of Salvimis, for the quintile of
Jupiter to the NIoon. I ﬁrﬅ take the quantity of
. N's diurnal *; that is, from the diurnal horary
times, which are 159 28', four times computed,
and the * becomes 61o 52'; the ﬁſth part of theſe
are 12" 22', and added to 6t® 52', they make the
quantity of the ray quintile 74._14, fand 'are the ſe
condary diſtance of 'aﬄict-the D. 'Phe oblique
aſcenſion of 11. apgﬁte to the pole of the D, is'
190" 6'; this ſuhﬅracted from the oblique aſcen
ſion of the ) 's, Oppoﬁ'tdznwhich is 265.33, leaves
the primary diﬅance of 'LL ctſrom the D 75o 17',
which being greater than that oſ-the miao 3', this
quintile ray had preceded, and 'It had this ray to
the
ELEMENTARY PHXLOSOPHY. an;
the 1) in the nativity. In the example of Cordi
nal Gymnoﬅur, the * of '11. to the Sun falls above
the Earth, - the quintile below; for which we can
not add to the **s arc of direction, the quintile
exceſs above the tay. \ But i direct the Sun to the
'quartile of u, and from that direction I ſubﬅract
the ﬁfth part of the nocturnal quadrate or ſemi
nocturnal arc of it thus: ,
The Sun's direction to the D of 14, is thuslob
tained : From the Suan ſemi-diumal arc 7518', is
given its diﬅance from the medium cwli 3ſi3.31;
wherefore from u's ſemi-nocturnal arc' 7f33=
1130 24', you have his ſecondary diﬅance frogn the
weﬅ 32..4b; the oblique aſcenſion of 1; is
312.33; from which, ſubﬅracting the oblique aſ
cenſion of the horoſcope, there remains the pri
mary diﬅance of 'it from the weﬅ 61.28 ; but be
cauſe 'At is above the weﬅ, and poﬁted belowx If,
add both his diﬅance: together, and make the arc
of direction of u's U to the Sun 96.8; the ſemi
nocturnaljrc/of 74 is 66 36, whoſe ﬁfth part is
13.19; ſſſſ AN; I ſubﬅract from the quadrate's arc
of direction 96.8, and there remains the Sun's arc
of direction to the quintile of 1; 82.49. There is
not any diﬃculty in the Canon, if due attention
be paid to the ray, whether they are projected from
places above the Earth, or below, which caſes ſel
dom happen.
F f Canon
4
a A.
X t-flﬁN
226 'ASTRONOM'Y AND
CANON XXXIV.
To direct the Signiﬁcawrs to their own Rays.
The Sun and Moon, only by reaſon they poſſeſs
the virtue both of the ſigniﬁcator and promittor, if
directed to their own rays, have remarkable eﬀects,
but the houſes are intirely excluded from their
own rays; the arc of direction of each luminary's
proper ſextile, is that which ariſes from its hora
ry times, four times computed; of the quintile,
with the addition of the ﬁfth part of that-ſextile;
the quartile's arc of direction is either ſemi-diurnal,
or nocturnal arc ; and ſo of the reﬅ. lf however
the ſigniﬁcator in theſe rays paſſes not from the
, 'upper to the lower hemeſphere, or the contrary,
as we have ſaid, then we muﬅ calculate in the
manner laid down in Canon XXXII, as if the Sun,
in the primam mabi/e was another promittoruﬃid we
ſhall know when it happens that the ﬁgniﬁcator
paſſes to the other hemiſphere ; by the oblique aſ
i'cenſion from which, will appear the ſigniﬁcator's
vdiﬅance from the horizon; which diﬅance, if it be
leſs, and the ray greater, that ray falls on the
ſiother hemiſphere: if the diﬅance be greater, the
ray leſs, it falls on the ſamng in Cardinal ſiGymna
ﬅm. The Sun's proper ſextile is, indeed, a proof of
itſelf, that it falls above the Earth, that is, above
the weﬅ, becauſe the Sun is above the cuſp 'of the
9th houſe; yet, if we require by calculation, the
' *\-.Sun's_h0tary times are'18.15. which, four times
comput
BLEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. '27
computed, makes the * ray 73; but the Sun's diſ
tance from the weﬅ is 7, .56, which is greater,
and the * ray leſs: &EZn thereforeſtheSun's a:
ray falls upon the ſame hemiſpherſielſis arc of cli
rection will be from the diurnal horary times, four.
times computed, 73; but the Sun's proper quar
tile falls below the Earth, and is to be calculated.
as in Canon-XXXIl, as if the Sun was another
promittor. More examples follow; and remember,
that if 'the,Sun is below the Earth, ,he muﬅ like
wiſe Bectdﬂthzſſlſſto the proper rays, the manner
conﬁdﬂed in Canon XXXVI.
CANON XXXV.
To direct'any Signiﬁtatar 'whatever to the Parallelr.
I call a parallel in the world, that diﬅance which
two ﬅars have in an equal proportion from the
r fame angle, the one remaining beyond, the other.
within'; as if one poſſeſſes the cuſp of the uth,
and the other the 9th, then they are equally diſ
tant from the medium neſt', or meridian; and if one
is found in 12, the other in the ſecond, they are
equally diﬅant from the aſcendant, or horizon,
But it is to be obſerved, that in this aſpect, it not
only happens that an__equal proportionate diﬅance
4 1, an .
is formed from one of the angles, but likewiſe
in ſome manner from every one of them; as a ﬅar
in the ninth is equi-diﬅant from the medium cell',
as another ﬅar in the nth; and theſe two ﬅars
l
are at an equal diﬅance from the imum tell', 'rid
Ffz from
328 ASTRONOMY AND
from the eaﬅ and Weﬅ horizon. This wi-llbe evi
dent from the calculation, and ſhould be taken as
a proof of the virtue and eﬃcacy of this aſpect,
- and likewiſe for the eaſe of calculation ; and from
hence it is inferred, that the calculation of this
aſpect may be made ſeveral ways, of which the.
eaſieﬅ is by the diﬅance, that is, from the 'ne-dium
(ar/i, whither theſe twa ſtars form a parallel to the
the meridian or horiZon, that is, whither both are
found above the Earth, or below it : I mean when
the direction is ﬁniſhed; for it matters not where ſi
they remain in the nativity,]f both are found
above,When they have this parallel,-tal<e the ſigni
ﬁcator, and promittor's right diﬅance, which they
__ have in the nativity from the mcdium
Mundan: ca-Ii, and this diﬅance l call the
Propartian. primary. Then ſay, if the horary
times, or ſemi-diurnal arc oftheſigni
ﬁcator give his diﬅance from the mca'ium earli, what
diﬅance will the promitary horary times give?
When you have found that, proceed according to
Canon XIX. But if they form this aſpect, while
they are both below the Earth, take the diﬅanc'es
from the imum car/27,- in the ſame manner, and the
diſfances from the horoſcope 'may be taken by the
oblique aſcenſioncſſf one beſi above the Eai'th, and
the other poſited belothhe contrary; take the
diﬅanCe of one from the Medium cas/i, and the
other from/the imum cer/t', or make uſe of the
oppoſſſitctſiﬂlict;6 champiegfollgwa '
Hitherto
ELBMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 229
þcl' 'as 'a a file-er 'a >,ZTF_ arte-7101-,
ni cator-- hen acfdtieff femi-di inal are:
Hitherto in this Canon, mention has heen made
of the direction to theparallels in the world, with
the ſuppoſition that the ſigniﬁcator remain im
moveable in the horary circle of poſition. But
becauſe, in the nativity, the virtue both of the ſig
niﬁcator and promittor is impreſſed in the primam
mobile, and this agreeable to the opinion of all
profeſſors, therefore both their virtues are con
veyed, by the primam mobi/e, from eaﬅ to weﬅ, con
ſequently it may ſometimes happen, that the ſigni
cator and promittor are poſited in an equal proper:
tionate diﬅance from the ſame an le that is in the ,
mundane parallel ofyoictu' ſſ OftleefZK
in this Canon, we give the calgulation; and how great
the active virtue ofthis application is, will be ſeen
in the example following: but it may happen that,
by-rdirection, even the ſigniﬁcator and promit
tor, both may be poſited above the Earth, or both
below; or the one above, the other below, though
in the nativity they are different lfboth are poﬁred
above the Earth; take the ſemi-diurnal arc, and
the ſigniﬁcatorrsﬂdiﬅance from the medium rtrli, and
the ſemi-diurnal arc of the promittor, with his
diﬅance in 7right_aſcenſion from the ſie
Rap'ﬂ
together,'ai1d ſay, as that ſum is to the Canon
ſemP-diumal arc of the promittor, ſo is
the promittor's diﬅance from the ſigniﬁca
tor, t'f'o the' promittor's ſeconda y diﬅance
from the mrdz'um well. uſe this diﬅance, as in Ca
non X'lX. You may likewiſe make uſe ofthe pro
mittor's
age' ASTRONOMY ANÞ_
mittor's place, as ſigniﬁcator, together with its
ſend-diurnal arc, right diſtance, &c. called a con
verſe direction. lf both are below the Earth, uſe
the ſemi-nocturnal arc-1' and diﬅance' from the
imum ere-11', in like manner. Laﬅly, if one beahove,
and the other below the Earth, take its oppoſite
place, and uſe the ſemi-diumal arc of thgt above ſ
. the Earth, and the othewſio polite place. Oyl-woful'
' 7 ſ ' ſhut LV/o enow-deal
V'ﬄ/ſi X V AſſdſiflſierN/XXXVI/7 '
To direct the Sun, 'when below the Earth, to the Aſþccts
ct in the [For/d
As the ﬁtuation of the immobility, or poſition of
theSun, conﬅituted below the Earth, is. not the
horary circle l "mitigerbplﬂ otherrskyzllnt
either the crepu cuhnejparallel to tlſe horizonhor
that which is made in the proportional diﬅances
from the obſcure arc, as has been mentioned be.
fore, then doubtleſs the Sun receives the promit
tor's aſpect in the world, when the promittor is
proportionally diﬅan'dſic' from a Cardinal, or other
houſe, as the Sun's diﬅance is in the aſore-men
tioned places after the direction is ﬁniſhed, where
his'diﬅance is diﬀerent from his primary one in the
nativity, as has been remarked; for the Sun changes '
fucceﬃvely his ſecondary diﬅance, wherefore,.the
calculau'ons of the Sun's directiondto the aſpects in
, the world, are attended with ſomewhat more diſ
i/aul-KJ ﬁCulty. lf the Sun is in the crepuſcules, ﬁrﬅ
1'1C . i calculate the Sun's direction to the promittor's ray,
a A whether
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY 23'
Whether it be ſextile, quartile, or trine, in the man
'ner of other ſigniﬁcators, that is, from the pro
portional. diﬅances from the angles, and other
houſes, by t e lorary times, &c. as hath been
ſaid above, ﬃtdrc of direction may 'be called a
'ﬁctious one. Second, you may know what degree of
the Zodiac the Sun at that time hath arrived at,
- r \ 'gy Piers/SJESWZF CEZLFFYÞ- intþeHſhJ-l FIPEPCF,_,
ſ A) the -i-e , ahd W'ſilldﬁ place the oblique
aſcenſion; 'by adding, thereto/theſfalſe [stre of
-tlirectiznlal;ozg, takerkfor this ſum/of the-oblique
aſcenſſſſon, ' triiſſgEeN-dgggeﬂcſiſfthei Zodiac: aft
which the Sun arrives in its revolution; for it is
"of" very little, or no conſequence, in caſe you do
'not knoyr 'ts true place in this calculation. Thirdſl
M't'h? un's primary diﬅance'from the horizon,
'ſee what crepuſcular itozoſſeﬅ'es, -and in the ſame,
'take his fecondary diﬅ'dncaeztſſ 'Vﬃﬃthe ſuppoſed
'feigned direction ſhall Come; then ſay fourth; s'the
horary timemocturnal of the Sun is to his ſeconF
clary 'diﬅance from the horizon, ſo is the promitſi
'tor's horary tim s to his/fecondary diﬅance frornﬄrſicte 4\:\;®:
_the angle or JoſſtEeſſr;iſſciixlegcſiand you will have the "nu- '
true arc of direction. Let the example he in Car
'dinal Odoardus Farneſe; l want to direct the 0
toſſthe A of 'LL in m' , which he has to the
vSun in an equal pr0portional diﬅance from the
cuſp of the ﬁfth, as is the Sun diﬅant from the'
faﬅ, the Sun's horary times nocturnal 19.r7; his
primary diﬅance from the horoſcope 20.57, uls
horary
237. KASTRONOMY AND
'horary times, 11.51;/Jthe pole of the eleventh
2l-4
houſe 180, the oblique aſcenſion of His, oppoſition A;
24238; by ſubﬅracting from this the oblique aſ
cenſion of the eleventh houſe, there remains ath
from the ﬁfth houſe, 34.3. By the rule of three,
you have u's ſecondary diﬅance 1155, which-&Ligh
ﬂracted from the primary, as both diﬅariozfrom
the preceding houſe, leaves the arc of direction
itſo, which arc is neceſſary, in order to know
the degree which the Sun may arrive at.
I require the Sun's polar elevation, if its duplie
care nocturnal times gives the polar diﬀerence be.
tween the ﬁrﬅ and ſecond houſe4 Il'; the Sun's
primary diﬅance from the horoſcope, 10957', will
give 6a nearly, and there remains the Sun's polar
elevation 38, to which the Sun's oblique aſcenſion
is, 28435. To this I add the arc of direction zlﬂ
andI make the ſum 30546, anſwering &blenlhe
ſame table, 15.20 of ice. ln the tables of erepuſ
cules for the pole 44, I look for the Sun's primary
diﬅance fropa the lZSt?£COp6,£2£1<ZLZf egg/Land I
ſin'd it 1372 M'Gnder 1310 of wax I take e Sun's
ſecondary diﬅaiice.20.46, always keeping the pro
portional part; wherefore again, by proportion, 1
ſay, as the Sun's hoiyry times 1947, is to his ſe-.
'n'l "r
e'Onclary diﬅancevhoro'ſcope 2046, ſo is Jupiter's
horary times, II.51. To u's ſecondary diﬅance,
ftom the ﬁfth, 1245, which, being ſubﬅracted
from the primary, leaves the true arc of direction,
ZLIJ- To equate' this, proceed as directed in
' Canon
heHams, 32' out: 2 Heel-31 Am
LYLFZQMOH XVl. Book: lHJlf the Sun is found'in the (Jctﬂﬂ 'in
obſcure nocturnalplace, ﬁrﬅ calculate the falſe
directionh whetherjt "be to the ſextile, quartile,
vor THIS; rdviriddsleefſiiid in the ﬁrﬅ/partlof't'hisﬄ i
7'ct 'ſictzctcliiiifterig flie degree 'of the ecliptic;
which the Sun arrives at, by this direction; X
thirdly, let it be required, if the Sunisfobſcu're
arc gives his primary diﬅaiige; weliatuſecOiidarY
at (71
'by Aſ 02?
diﬅance. of the difiſie wi latliat deg£eſi ofthe-eclip
tic give, at which the Sun arrives atforeſaid
. . 7 _ 0 _ .\-;,_ 7) v
direction; and when this ſecondary i ance from
. 1
the imumcwli is known, if it be in the third or
fourth houſe, uſe this diﬅance; but if it be in the
ſecond or ﬁfth houſe, ſubﬅract the Sun's duplicate
liorary times nocturnal from this diﬅance, and *
the remainder will be the Sun's ſecondary diﬅance
from the third or ﬁfth houſe; that is, when the
direction is ﬁniſhed, then again fay,-as the Sun's
horary timcs nocturnal is to his ſecondary diﬅance
fromghgﬁblterrmzpatekhouſe, ſo is the promittor's
horary timſſesiﬅom that houſe from which it pro
jects its' propoſed ray, to that dther houſe, from
which you have received the Sun's ſecondary diſi_ '
tance, &c. you muﬅ ﬁniſh as uſual. Let the ex
ample be in Cardinal Zacohia: in this I want to
calculate the Sun's direction to the * of y, in
the world, which p has to theo , _in a' proportional
diﬅance from the third houſe,'as the Surtqisſifrom
the ﬁfth; the Sun's liorary times nocturnal 14 26,
G 0' A the
Þ
234 ASTRONOMY AND
7 .
the oblique aſcenſion of thgſſAoppoſitovaiaz under
the pole 18,"7the eleventh houſe is t89.7, from
which ſubﬅraict the oblique aſcenſion of the ele
venth, 175.22::tﬀere remains the Sun's diﬅance
from the ﬁſth houſe, 1345, Mercury's horary
times hocturnal 16, his oblique aſcenſion, under
the pole of the third houſe, is 354.13, wherefore
there remains his primary diﬅance from the third
58.51. I therefore ſay, if the Sun's horary times,
14.26, give his diﬅance from the ﬁfth houſe, viz.
13.45, what diﬅance will g's horary times give
from third, viz. 16.o? Anſwer, the' ſecondary
diﬅance of y , 15.5, which, ſubﬅracted from the
primary, leaves the falſe arc of direction 4336,
which is neceſſary to know the degree of the eclip
tic, at which the Sun may arrive in its revolution.
The Sun's ole, taken as uſual is 23; the hi un
aſcenſion3; the ſame
* 35 ; by a ding to this the feigned arc of direction,
the ſum is 233.3o, anſwering in the ſame table
to the 17.3o, of in, ſo that the Sun muﬅ remain
in 17.30 ot 15. Nowv it remains to know what is
the Sun's diﬅance from the imam deli, or ﬁfth'
. houſennder 17.3o of a , according to the prOpora
.tional parts of the Sun's obſetztzzlarc, ſand alſo
17-30 of 3, The ſemi-nocturrml aſircaia 5146, the
are of the whole crepuſculine ſif.4£1.; the Sun's ob
ſcure arc is, by ſubﬅraction, 411 2'. - A -
.\.>
"_- r The
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY- '35
l ﬄﬀ H. M
The ſemi-nocturnal arc,*17.3o of 3 is 4 50
. The arc of the whole crepuſculine 2 A;
The ohſcure arc of 5 , 17.3o - 2 46
TheSun's right aſcenſion 80 , from which ſub
ﬅract right aſcenſion of imum rzfi, giyes theczpri
[nary diﬅance therefrom 42.38. 4ſl/ th<{Sun's ob
fcure arc 4.2, gives his primary diﬅance from the
imum celi42.38,_what will b=thcdi£l=ame=d h *
obſcure arc of a I7.3o, which is 3.46 E'WULEZZELL wſſh
ſecondary diﬅanmaﬁ from which l ſuhﬅract
the O's duplicateſſlhorary times 28.52, for the
fourth houſe, and there remains the O's diﬅance'
from the ﬁfth o.23. Laﬅly, I demand, if the O's
horary times I4.26, give his diﬅance from the 5th, *
o.23, what will the hOrary times of Y give 16.o>
Anſwer, 3! ſecondary diﬅance from the third, O.26;
which beingfubﬅracted from the primary diﬅance '
of the ſarge-ſtillere remains the true arc of direction
55'.25, of this and others; in the example, you will
ſee afterwards in its placeK) the other rays, quintile,
ſeſqui-quadrate, and hiquintile, After you have cal
culated the falſe arc ofdirection to the ſextile, quar
tile, or trine, add or ſubﬅract the proportional
4 perts, as we haVe ſaid above, then ſee what degree
the But) has arrived a}, and inztha-t/ his ſecondary
&Warm-'1 my.
diﬅziiice (tom the angles and' houctſes zﬅtdhe promittor
always ſhould he at' tlﬁdiﬅance. See alſo, what
I have ſaid elſewhere in an e _m,ple giv for illuſ-'
trati9n._/£This Canon
direct the Sun to the proper rays in the world, for
A G g 2 his
ago 'ASTRONOLiY AND '
.-\; &a. _
his place it taken under the primam mobilc, as iſ it
was another promittor diﬀerent from the Sun, al
ways remaining immoveable under the ſame polar
elevation; wherefore let all be done as has been .'
ſaid, ſſ he Sun's virtue is impreſſed on the pri
mum mabilc, under thzdﬂmzrniriate degree' of eie-e
74 vationz-'and On either ﬁde, their virtue continues
immoveable; but that which is impreſſed in the
'primam maþi/c, is moved round the world with the
ſame primum maþile, and is ſeparated from the mun
dane impreﬃng; and this remaining immOveable,
under its,polar elevation, is moved to the more
eaſiern parts under the primam mabile, and ſo ar- >.
rives at the rays of the other virtue impreſſed un-.
der theþrimum mob/ſe; tlns in a direct motion is
the ſame-as the promittor; in a converſe, as a
i ſignificator; on the contrary, the other, &e.
CANON' XXXVII.
To direct any Signr'ﬂcator wba/wer, in a canw'ﬁ ﬂ/H
tzſion, to ailſ/Je Aſpects made in 'be Her/a',
If you have rightly underﬅood all the Canons in
this third' part, this likewiſe before you will be
ſound very eaſy ; for it contains nothing more than
what we- have ſaid in this third part, with this dif
zy>)(_)q.:-/
fel'ence only, that in a' different manner, not the
promittor, but the ſig'niﬁcator, remaining immove
able under the primam mobile, isſſcarried to the
. . 01' _
place of poſition of the promittorhto their rays,
which continue immoveable in a mundane ﬁtuation;
n- A) .7'. 2) - , * therefore .
'VL A/pg (04. <' ſſm' ﬂ'Þ-Oz ſ'lctﬂ/n
.- aﬁle/'gie - -
_.1 ﬁu-n-J
ELEMENTARY PHlLOSOPHY. 237=
therefore the rules given, concerning the ſigniﬁſi
cator, are to be underﬅood of the promittor; and
on the contrary, thoſe giv'mgrelative to the pro
mittor, are to be underﬅood of the ﬁgniﬁcator;
for which reaſon, there is an alteration in the or
der of numbers of the Golden Rule; ſo that 'igthe
ﬁrﬅ place the horary times of the promittor are
to be takenſimd beqshted in the ſecond F its diſ-_ '
tance from the angles or houſes; in the thirds;- the
horary times of the ﬁguiﬁcator, and the fourth
number, will he the ſecondary diﬅance of- that ﬁgz
niﬁcator, which is to be compared with the pri
mary diﬅance of the ſame from the cardinals or
houſes, in the manner explained, relating to the
promittor in Canon XlX. There are more ex
amples afterwards, together with their eﬀects;
The angles are not directed in a converſe motion,"
for they have none to the preceding places.
CANON XXXVlll.
To direct the Signiſimtar to 'be Weﬅ, uitb tþe Ad
dition and Sulgﬅraction qftbe Parts which irfarmtd
from the interjacmt Rag ar Starr, according to. zbe
Preccpts owa/cmy. __
By the oblique deſcenſionjoriafcenſiomofkplac
OPPOELH to the horizon of the country, direct the
ſigniﬁcator to the weﬅ, not omitting his latitude,v
if it is-Jms any; mean while, 'you muﬅ conſider
what ſtars or mundane rays are intercepted between
the ﬁguiﬁcator and the weﬅ, which you will knowv
rom
_' 7 'x
S
7..
238 - ASTRONOMY AND
y'fu
frOm the direction oſ,_ﬅars or rays to the Weﬅ; for
thoſe that arrived ﬁrﬅ, that is, hy a leſs arc oſ di-r
lection than that oſ the ſigniﬁcator to the weﬅ,
are interpoſited ; hut thoſe that follow by aigreater
are of direction, are not interjacent, and you muﬅ
obſerve their arc oſ direction, whether of the ﬅars
or rays to the weﬅ. Thend-ſevery one of the pla-r
nets, which either lie between or interpoſe the rays,
[Like the conditionary arc, the horary times to the
hemiſphere, wherein the ﬅars, and not the rays,
may he; for it is thus, as the nocturnal from the
night, and diurnal from the day, as Ptolemy in
forms us. Laſily, ſay, by the Golden Rule, if the
whole c'ontlitionary arc ofa ﬅar give us all the ho-z
tary times, how many will a ﬅarror raynrc of di
rection to the wsﬅgive? hlultiply the ſecond and
third,- and divide hy the ﬁrﬅ; add the remainder,
iſ treating oſ the fortunate; but iſ of the unfortuq
nate, ſuhﬅract it from the ſigniﬁcator*s arc oſ di
lection to the weﬅ, and it will give the arc oſ diz
lection more or leſs, according to Ptolemy, which
fhmddſihe equated in the uſual manner. Suppoſe
the example he in Gar/line! Domini: Gymnaſuus, the
Sun's arc of direction to the weﬅ is 75.5-6; u is
interjscent, whoſe ſerni-diurnal arc is 113124; ho
mry times 18.53, his arc of direction to the-weſb
is 61.28. l then require if'the whole diurnal arc
oſ "a, 22648, give his horary times 18.53, how
many-will the arc of direction 6I.28 give? The
anſwer is, 5Pſ. Venus interpoſes the Sextile;
' the
ELEMkN-TARX PX-HLOSOPHY. '39'
the right aſcenſion of 2 is 160.46; which,- ſub
ﬁmcted from 'he right aſcenſion of the 'ne-dium
ttkli, makeythe diﬅancerof 2 from thence o0 19',
which, ſubſiracted from the duplicate horary time'
of 2 33.!4, there remains the arc of direction of
2- to the ac of the weﬅ 32.55. If therefore the
whole diurnal arc of 2 , which is 19935, gives
the horary times 16.37, how many will the arc cf
direction 32.55 give? and I receive for anſwer,
245. Venus likewiſe interpoſes the quihtile. I
'compute the four horary times of 2 , andﬁinnkcs
66.248; the ﬁfth part of which is 1318; I ſub
ſhact this from the *'s are of direction, and there
remaihs the are of direction qf the quintile of 2 to
the weﬅ 19.;7; from ſith/ere; in the fourth place,
are had x.33, ail which make 9.24 of the form
nate to he added; ſo thatithe Sun's are of direction
to the Weﬅ is augmen-ted to 85.20. Mars interg 7
- 0 man-11(1 HK- ſi?
poſes the o, whoſe arc of direction,.-ctiﬃough1the
right aſcenſion of the mia'ium can/i, is 7.57; if
therefore the whoie diurnal are of Mars, whichz-Þ/ﬄﬄw'b" 1
Jiizzslhis horary times 15.!5, the direction's are
_7.57, will/M 0o 40'. Saturn ixiterpoſes the ſeſ
qui-quadratect; his diﬅance from the imum car/i, is
18 43, which I fubﬅract from his dupiicate horary
times, which are 3524., and there remains his diſ
tance 'from the third houſe, 17 11 ; to this I add
his horary times, and I make the art: of direction
ofthe ſeſqui-quadrate of I; to the weﬅ 3453. If
therefor-e, the whole noctrnnl arc of 7221'144, gives
' ' " his
-' ſ' _
/-/ / k>,./,\ ſr-wc d'/_ 5., ,_,- . "hie" 'ſ .Z<,'94ez;ua!2n;\f<,
ſi', r' 1' . 1, u jſſ' 54 4 zzſixz anſ/LA
///<,
ſ V' a A, ſ' jeu: 'a A . - . N/ ,ſi x
/'.£--,; ,,.,_z( ,1" .* wo/Z/L/KXÞ A: r
,.,>1 24' ASTRONOMY AND
his horary times 17.42hthe arc oſdirection_85.20,
and there remains the trtJe arc of direction 81 46,
calculated according to Ptolemy's method, which
ſhews the years the native has lived, as you may
ſee afterwards in iqs pr0per place. That you may
not look upon what we have ſaid as a dream, and
therefore to be rejected, ſee the example of Urs
ban Vlll. In the Philoſophy oſ the Heavens, you
may likewiſe do the ſame in the example of Leo
nora Urſina, Ducheſs of Sſortia. But how largely
and diſſerently authors have ſpoken of this direc
tion of the ſigniﬁcator to the weﬅ, putting various
conﬂructions on the words oſ Ptolemy, is known
to every one. See Cardan in his Commentaries,
Maginus in his Primum Mabilc, and the Uſe of Le
gal Aſirology in Phyﬁc, chap. viii. where he deli
vers the ſentiments of Naihoda. I add, it is worthy
oſ remark, and altogether conſormahle to truth;
becauſe, when the rays and intermediate ﬅars of
the malign only leſſen the arc _oſ direction to the
well, and do not deﬅroy liſe; when by a right
direction, the moderator of liſe does not remain at
the ſame time with the malignant planet; for ſhould
this happen, they kill, without any manner of
doubt, as in Salvialis, and ſeveral other examples.
- ASZI'R-ONOMY
t 241. j.ſſ
A s T R "o N 0 M'Y
' AND
ELEMENTARY-P'HILOSOPHY,
TIAN'LATIB FROM THE L'A'TLN 0'
'PLACIDUS-DE T-I-TUS.
'7 at >tt T tv.
w
Of secoNnAnY Dt-Rz-zc-Ttons, PROGREsnoNs,
i I'NGRTBss, and TRANSLT.
*HAVING already egglatedſſand obtained the
Mortal numersſof the primary direction of
the ﬁgniﬁ-cators to their Nromittors; and likewiſe
taking the lords of the vcijrlSSTle which Ptolemy,
A, in the laﬅ chapter of the sith book, calls the Ge
neral Arbiters of Times; for this reaſon, becauſe
they pre-ordai-n the general times of their eﬀects,
which, as its motion 'is ﬂow, its perſeverance long,
it diſcovers its eﬀects after a very long time; that
is, after mouths and years." In order that we may
know, in this extent of time, on what particular
month and day the eﬀects appear, Ptolemy pro
H h * poſes
241. ASTRONOMY AND
poſes theſe motions for obſervations, wherein, when
the greater oſ the cauſes agree together, then;
doubtleſs, the eﬀect is accompliſhed, or moﬅ
clearly maniſeﬅs itſelf: whence we ought to con
clude, that though, with our greateﬅ care and exact
calculation we have obtained the true time, not
Only to the year, but alſo month and day of the
primary direction, we cannot argue from thence,
that the eﬀect has happened on that very day, and
therefore it matters not, though the primary di
rection has been even exceeded, or notiquite 'ex
actly accounted to a few minutes, as notwith
ﬅanding the particular times of their eﬃzcts, may
depend upon other motion of cauſesv now propoſed;
for which reaſon, the times oſ theſe ſubſequent
motions of the cauſe, demand our greateﬅ atten
tion; and we muﬅ not inſiﬅ upon the ﬁrﬅ places
which preſent themſelves, but enquire further, till
we ﬁnd where proof may be had, viz. by the me
thod we are now going to ſpeak of.
CANON XXXlX.
Of SECONDARY DrRECTmN.
Under this name, I underﬅand the' motion of the
celeﬅial cauſes which are made on the days ſucceed
ing the nativity, according as they are marked in
the Ephemeris; for the aſpects to the luminaries
and angles, which happen in thoſe days, have their
eﬀects from every day to every year; ſo that the
ﬁrﬅ day may be referred to the ﬁrﬅ year, as a
meaſure
iszMINTARY PHILOSOPHY. 4243 q
ſo m dame'
meaſure to the menſurate; the ſecondHZLC. for
which reaſon we muﬅ obſerve, when the iumina
ries are poﬁted in anjaſpect of the ﬅars for i ,>witlr
the fortunes, weather-fortunate, they conduce to.
happineſs and good health; if with the unfortu
nate, and from an hoﬅile ray or parallel of decli
' nation, 'they portend miſery and diﬅreſs in thoſe
years which depend on thoſe days theſe aſpects
happen on. But without doubt, theſe eﬀects are
remarkable, iſ at that time there are primary di
rections of the ſame kind and nature; and above
the reﬅ, from ſuch motions originate the climac-r
tical, or more properly, critical years', for on the
zdays the D is poſited in the 6 , D , or .g, to and
with the place of the nativity, ſhe makes the years
which depend on thoſe days, obnoxious to dangers
and inﬁrmities. But iſ at that time any unſortu.. 1
nate primary direction of the vital prorogator is
ﬅrong, life may be ſaid to be in danger, and par
ticularl'y if in a ſecondary direction, the Moon is
aﬄicted by the malignant planets. But if the Sun
is ſo too, the danger is ﬅill greater. Laﬅly, iſ the
primary direction is heavy, when the ingreſs and
tranſit agree, death is inevitable. See the exami
ples in, the Expoſition of the Nativities,
CANON XL.
Of Pragrqﬃons,
1 That progreſſions, or, if we ſhould ſay, equal
- proceſſes, taken as uſual, according to the general
H h 2 Opinion
m, ' tasraouonvau'n '.
opinion and cuﬅom hitherto received, are ﬁctitious,
impoſſible', and contrary to nature, has been ſuﬃ
eiently proved elſewhere. The method- which you
are to take as natural, We now dtplain and prove,
in every oneſioſ'the futtire examples. Khow then,
that, prdgteſl'io'ns are Lderived 'from emboliſmieal
lunation's ſucceeding the nativity, 'every one of
which are formed in the ſpace of near 29 d'ays, in
which the' Moon ſeparates from her a ,with the Sun
forming the n and 3, and retutns to a. D and 6 ,
in which circuit ſhe paſſes. over almoﬅ 13 ſigns,
iand the Sun one ſign.
Progreﬃons, iſ we may give our judgment, orie
ginates from theſe motions oſthe luminaries; for the
ﬁrﬅ lunation ſucceeding the nativity, or the 1) 's cir'
cuit, bounds the progreſſion of the ﬁrﬅ year of the
native; the ſecond, the progreﬂion of the ſecond
year; the third, of the third, &e. in ſuch a man
ner, how:ver,- that the ﬁrﬅ part of the D circuit
may meaſure or bound the ﬁrﬅ part oſif the year;
the middle, the middle; the laﬅ, the laſh-&e.
To calculate the progreſſions, and know with
eaſe where they will arrive at ſo many emboliſmi
cal lunations oﬃnsﬀkiﬃl ſucceeding the nativity,
muﬅ be computed, as there are years which have
elapſed of the age oſ the nativity, by always
placing the Moon in vthat appearance and diﬅance
from the Sun ſhe is at in the nativity. Laﬅly, for -
every month to 'the Moon's place, there muﬅ be
added 32.30, which-are the twelfth-part of one ln
- nation; v
lLEM-ENTARY PHXLOSOPHY. 346
nation; but if you deſire to obtain a ready calcu
tion of the progreſſions far ſeveral years, take no
tice that the D does not ﬁniſh the twelve lun u
þ,tions in one Whole year, but eleven days leſsq
ſi' Moon's diﬅance from the Sunin the na.
tivity, and look for this eleventh day before the
end of the ﬁrﬅ year after the nativity; and when
you have found it, then the progreﬃon of twelve
years are completed; in like manner twenty-two
days before the end of the ſecond year after the
nativity, the progreſſion of twenty-four years are
completed, &c. Thence proceed from every lunatiou
to every year of the native's age, and from every
one of the ſigns withsage of the D's motion to
every month ; and whenever the luminaries are well
aﬀected, as well in the progreſſions as towards the
places of the favourable planets of the nativity,
they induce to happineſs; and on the contrary,
&e. See examþctu'ba in every one of/t e_nati-_
Vities.
CANON XLl.
Filngrgﬄ's.
We have ſaid ſome are ctive ſom are paſſive.
ACTIVE ingreſſes are theZTLea'ZB ladtive ſtars,
acquired by an univerſal daily motion, witſſh the
places of the primary and ſecondary directionjand . _
proM of the ſigniﬁcators. PASSIVE are the &vn rew;
aſpect; of the univerſal prorogators in the whole
world with the active ﬅars of the ſecondary di
rection
us ASTRONOMY AND.
rection, and proceſs'. Under the name oſ ACTH'E
ﬅars, we mean whatever hafgthe quality ofacting,
and are uſually poﬁted in the promittor's place, as
72, 'lb 3 , 2 , Y, and the O and psalſo,when
they aſſume the'nature of any of the afore-men
tioned. and ſuch ingreſſes, whether of the benign,
to the places of the motions of thev ſigniﬁ-cators, on
oſ the univerſal ſigniﬁcator, to the places of the
motions of the benign, or favourable planets ; that
is, both active and paﬃve are good, but of the
malign, the Enelmapner, are hurtful, as will be
ark: 01.: te 'r
percexved in t a examples.
s
Canon XLlL.
Oſ TRANSITS.
Somejilſo a ed active, ſome paﬃve; the active
<'rſl'ſſactive ﬅars acquired by an uni
verſal daily\motion with the prorogators of the nao
tivit .; that is, with t ir inmoveable laces.
Paﬃii'e Tranſits itheyzſpegts bf the niiiverſal
ſigniﬁcators in the whole woild with the active
ﬅars of the nativity; that is,v with their immove
able places, according to their immobilityAſſwhich
we have frequently mentioned; ſo that in this, '
greſſes diﬀer from tranſits ; in that, ingreſſes r'
the places of the moveable motions; hut tranſits,
the ﬁxed places of the nativity. But the moﬅ of
all to be obſerved, are the lnnations in the daily
motions, whether it be 6, 0, or 3 of the D
with the O above the obnoxious places; for when
the
ZLEMENTA'RY PHtLZFOPHY. 247
the ſubject is? the directign'iiqdr progreſs to hap
pineſs, iſthelnppy lunations arectlr'g; by reaſon of
'the aſpects of fortunate ﬅars, they greatly conduce
to the procuring of happineſs in their eﬀects; but
if, on the contrary, we are ſpeaking oſ the direc
tions and proceſs to the unfortunate planets; and
thoſe lunations are unfOrtunate, on account oſ the
hoﬅile rays there of the malignant ﬅars, the native
* muﬅlbe ſuppoſed to be in very great danger ; and
doubtleſs there is great re ſon to fear it, from
the unhappy event of the things ſigniﬁed. Hence
it is evident, that promotions to dignity very
frequently happen in lunations whezeiir/the lumi
naties are ſurrounded by the 'fSit'uzi-Zde" On the
contrary, tribulatiofis, diſeaſes, mui'ders, &c. in
lunntions, wherein the luminaries are beſieged by
the unſavourable planets.
This is the true doctrine of Ptolemy, and 'of all
this moﬅ noble ſcience,
But let us begin obſerv-ing the examples which
we have ſubjoined to verify things, and likewiſe to
elucidate the Canons.
End oſ the CANONS.
ADDITZONAL
'ce-is)
" aDDITHONAL' OBSERVATIONS
"C 'o'Nc'E P T 1 0 N,
i ANÞ THE
TEMPERATURE or A NATIVITY..
- T is univerſally admitted, that the beginning
of human generation takes place at concepa
tion, and therefore we ought to be exact in aſcer
taining this time, and conſider the eﬀective 'power
of the conﬁguration of the ﬅars, as they then hap:
pen to be poſited, and from thence contemplate the
qualities of the mind and body. For in the be
ginning, although the ſeed at once aſſumes a qua- _
Iity by the communication of the circum-ambient
matter, which at other times oſ its formation and
increaſe becomes diﬀerent, yet, naturally, as it in
creaſes, it retains its own proper matter, and is ren
dered more like the peculiar nature of the ﬁrﬅ
quality,
ELEMENTARY PHlLOSQPHY. '49
quality, with which it was impreſſed at the time
of conception. It is of ſome importance to know
the time of conception, as well as to know the true
time ofbirth; for by the ﬁrﬅ, the accident: and
temperature before birth are known; and by the
ſecond, thoſe incident to our whole lives are to be
diſcovered. Wherefore one may be called a be
ginning, and the other an after-beginning; the
ﬁrﬅ, the generation of human ſeed; the ſecond,
that of man. For in this ﬅate the infant aſſume:
many things which it had not when in the womb,
and theſe peculiar to human nature alone, and
the formation 'of the body. And although the
properties of the celeﬅial and elementary matter
vſeems to confer nothing at the time of birth, in re
ſpect to the formation of the child, yet it Operate:
moﬅ forcibly,upon it in other reſpects; for na
ture, after perfecting the formation, diſpoſes the
enſuing eﬀect according to the ſtate of the former
at the beginning. Hence it is reaſonable, in thoſe
whoſe time of conception is known, that the con
ﬁgurations of the ﬅars formed at their birth,
ſhould be ſigniﬁcative ; not that it wholly contains
an eﬀective power, but becauſe it neceſſarily hath
a power by nature ſimilar to the eﬀective. There
fore, if the time of conception can be known before
birth, by ſetting a ﬁgure, it ſhews ,what ſhall hap
pen to the infant while in the womb; as whether
it ſhall be ﬅrong or weak, ﬁrm or inﬁrm, perfect
I i or
ﬁe Asſir'itONOii-r'v Ah'b
or imperſedtpmale oſir female, ſingle or twins ; or
whether itiſhzillarrive t'o t'hefull and perfect time of
birth. But ſhamen eſſential'uſe oſ'a conteptiohal
ﬁgure 'after "the 'iiifa'nt is'born, i's *to compare the
ſigns and 1 planets which govern 'tſſhe 'Conception
ﬄih the 'nature ſian'd 'quality o'f 'thoſe than govern
the birth, in o'rii'ſſer fo'iiſcert'aih 1thſſ'e predominant
humour, 'and its offeti'dirig 'quality, 'wtii'ch iſhall
ieverſſafſiter markſithe temperatui'e 'of t'h'e'native.
T'o'erect, therefore, a conceptionalſſﬁgure, pro
ceed thus'rſſwhe'n you have'ſet'a'ﬁgure ſoria'naſſtſi
*vit'y, ta'ke'ſſtheſiﬁiﬁanee 'of the M'oonfrom the eaﬅ,
lh'e be iinder ihe earth, or iflſi'om the "ſeventh, if
'ziboire the earth,ſſſubﬅr'acting'ctthe ſign and degree iof
vth'eia'ngle''from ſit'he 'ſign and degree 'of 'the Moon,
'aliwaysiohſerving to add twelve'iﬁgns to 'the Place
'of the Moon, if (ſuhﬅraction cannot be made) vand.
ſitvith the remainder enter the ſubſequent Taſſhl .
. A'Tabie
ILEMeNTA-RY ertrLosoniY. 'm
A [ab/e eft/ac idea/rim aſ t/J: Cbi/d m 11; Motþn': 'Io-me.
I , If the Moon y,
lſthe Moon is aba': the A TA
is under the l[II-'allyﬅtalce ble _ Of. l
Earth take er di ance turnm
a: her diﬅahcc frctomtheAnſi drgrteg2 A- T'He Of m'
a "3 ,ſromthcAſ.- gle or: the 'into , num'
5 ccndant. Weﬅ. hours.
Days. Days. ing. M. M. M- M.
O O 273 ' 258 r 2 t 2 x6 32
o U 274 ſ 359 2 3 3 4 17 3+
O 24- 275 260 ' 3' 3 6 18 36
1 6 276 L 26r 4. 8 4 8 -19 38
r 18 277 262 5 10 5 to 20 49
_2 o 278 263 612 6 12 2142
2 12 279 264. 7 1 7, 12 22 44
2 22 280 26; 8 x_ 8 1 23 46
3 281 266 9 18 9 18 24 48
3 18 282 2'67 to 20 to 20 25 so
4. o 283 . 268 11 22 11 22 26 52
4 12 284. 269 12 24 12 2'4 27 54;
4. 24 28; 276 '3 26' 28 5
5 6 285 ' 271 14; 28 29 58
s 18 287 272 1.; 30 so 60.
I o 288 2'73_ '
But to make the proceſs of ſetting a cenceptional
ﬁgure more facile, we will ſubjoin the following ex?
ample, taken from the nativity of George Prince of
Wales, where we ﬁnd the Moon is two ſigns 289, 36'
diﬅant from the aſcendant under the earth; with
'this enter the table, and even with two ſigns 249,
will be found (in that column the diſtance oſ the'
MoOn from the aſcendant) 280 days ; and by en
tering vvith the other 4.o in the table of degrees, we
ſhall ﬁnd it give 8h; and we examine the table of
minutes, and ﬁnd 36' give th, 12', which, being
Ii 2 (Wed
ASTRONOMY AND
added altogether, makes 280 days gh 12', which
ſhews the conception took place 280 days 9h 1 2' be
fore the birth; and by reckoning that time back
wards, we ſhall ﬁnd it took place on Thurſday the
5th of November, eight minutes paﬅ' ten o'clock in
the morning, 1761, when the ſeven erratics were
ſituated as in the annexed plate.
On Temperature qfa Native.
It is neCeſſary, before we can give a proper
judgment on the ſize, temperature, or complexion
ofa native, that we conſider the ſpeciﬁc virtue and
quality ofthe ſeven wanderers,and theirpoſition; for
as by their motion they regulate the four elements,
ﬁre, earth, air, and water,*ſ'o theycompound and act
on the four principal humours in the temper-attire of
man, viz. choler, melancholy, blood, and phiegm ;
and as they are equally mixed or predominant, ſuch
ſhall be the temperature and complexion of the na
tive at conception and birth, we ſhall therefore, for
the better perception of a young tyro, arrange
them under diﬅinct heads (as in the plate), where
in is ſhewn how their natural qualities are changed
by their diﬀerent aſpects and poſitions in the hea
vens; as for example, the o in m, a, or n, is
ſanguine, and produces heat and moiﬅure, as in
Spring.
The O in 25, 51, and "12, is choleric, and cauſes
heat and dryneſs, as in Summer.
The o in A, In, and 1, is melancholy, and
brings cold and dryneſs, as in autumn.
The
IZLEMZNTARY PHILOSOPHY- 25;
The O in w, x, or X, is phlegmatic, and
cauſes cold and moiﬅure, as in winter. '
The Moon, of her OWn nature, is cold and
moiﬅ, and always intermixes her inﬂuences with
the inﬂux of every planet thatjoins aſpect with her,
or from which her aſpect is ſeparated. Her eſ
fects alſo increaſe or decreaſe; for iſ ſhe is in her
increaſe with 3 , ſhe cauſes heat and dryneſs; but
when in ,her decreaſe with I), ſhe produces cold
and moiſiure; therefore in judging oſ the tempz
rature oſ the native, obſerve the following rules :
Firﬅ. Examine the nature of the ſign aſcending.
Second. The nature of the lord thereof, and
the ſign it is in.
Third. The planets or 83 or 23 in the aſcendant,
o-r any planet beholding the aſcendant with aſpect.
Fourth. The ſituation of the Moon and thoſe
planets that behold the Moon within orbs.
Fiſth. The ſeaſon of the year and that ſign the
Sun is in.
Sixth, The almuten, or that planet which has
greateﬅ dignities in the ﬁgure. I
Theſe rules being properly attended to, and ga
thered according to order, and ſubﬁraction made, the
leſſer from the-greater, we may eaſily find the pre-'
dominant humour, and conſequently judge of the
'ﬁze, temperature, and complexion of the native.
But it is neCeſſary to premiſe, that if cold and
moiſture prevail in a geniture, the native will be
phlegmatic: if cold and dryneſs have'the ſupeo
riority, he will-acquire a reſerred habit and be op
preſſed
ny, ASTRONOM-Y and
preſſed with melancholy: if heat and, moiﬅure pre
dominate, he will prove ofa ſanguine temperature,
and of an even courteous diſpoſition: if. heat and
dryneſs, he will be cholerick, and of a, ſurly tem
per ; but where the qualities of the conﬁgurating
ﬁars are nearly equal, the native will be ﬅrongly
aﬀected by their temperatures reſpectively, when
under a direction of their own nature and quality.
On Climactrim] Tears
Climactrical years are nothing more than the times
or periods in which the lVIoon makes her quarters
to the point ſhe is in at birth, meaſured by her own
motion, and applied to the years of the native'sg
life, and to allow for each day's motion of the
Nloon one year, and for every two hours one
month, by which may be judged the native's ﬁrﬅ
climactrical year, ſecond, third, and fourth; and
here obſerve the time the Moon took in making
her ﬁrﬅ quarter after birth, declares when the
ﬁrﬅ climactrical year is; the ſecond quarter, the
ſecond climactrical year, and ſo on, till we begin
the ﬁrﬅ again. 7 in65
On Rcwlutz'am'.
Revolutions are no other than to obſerve the
ſituation oſthe planets, at the time the Sun' returns
to his radical place; and if at that time any of the
planets tranſit their own, or behold their own
Place with any aſpect, then they have powerful ef
fects; 'if none of theſe happen, then there can be no
judgment drawn from a revolution that year.
THE END.
EZ' The Reader z's deſirtd to obﬅr've, that tbcﬂregazſing
Table: gf Houſes, are tboﬅ alludcd to in Ca
non VI. a: [ning more properly adapted to this
Iſolume.
w
I, nag PRESS, a'zrlſþndiz'y will be puſhed, i
(Price Ten Shillings and Sixpence)
A
C 0 L L E C T I O N
Thirty Remarkable Nativities.
1'0
ILLUSTRATB the CANONS,
AND
PROVEſithe TRUE PRINC'lPLI-ZS
o!"
ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY.
i Tranﬁated from the LATIN of
PpLAClDUS DE TlTUS.
To rwbzſicb i: preﬁxed,
To facilitate Aﬅronomical Calculations,
Table' of Right Aſeenſion, Declinationyand Aſcenſional Diﬀerence;
Tables of DoubleﬂHorary Times, Semi-diurnal and Nocturnal Ares ;
Sexagenary Tables, and-Logiﬅical Logarithm: 5 Tables for equatng
the Seven Erratics 3 Table of ﬁxed Scars, &e. &e.
'The whole arrangcd in a conciſe and regular Method, and exempliſied
with ſuitable Matter to elucidate Elementary Agency, and to form
an Adept in the Sideral and Sublime Myﬅeries.
Beautiﬁed and Embelliſhed with '
THIRTY ELEGANT EN GRAVINGS,
From the above NA'erITIts
THE W'HOLB CARLFVLLiY REVXSED
BYM.SIBLY.
L O N D O N :
Printed by W. Ju srm s, Blackſriars; and fold by Mr. Bsw, Pater
noﬅer Row; Mr. RXCHARDSON, under the Royal Exchange;
Mr. MATHEWS, in the Strand; Mr. DLBRETT, Piccadilly;
Meſſm. M. and j_. SXBLY, Goſwcll-ﬁreetz and Mr. Enmvxo
Sun', Brick-Line, Spitalﬁelds. i * i
The Aspects. l
o/Corgunctwn, argood WZt/J good Fleam, but
-A-A_A_
1-.
EvLL When bwo PZa-nztr time? g'" CaaZTa/Py n'ot/tum.
XESeaotLLe Lſis' [ruiſſercmfly good. i
U Gum-Me L's [War-ately EvLL.
A Trine, WPerfectLygaad/ waſ! any Plana:
1 OPOPPOSILtz'om wan/Asle (ſ mosbpe'feoþ E'znulyz
. A Table, Proving whatHaut; areſnwrldr,or _\
1
"v'mf'
' Emulby wotb each other. 4" their' Colownr. i
Planets Bags Engtpiesl Colpcjps i:
Þ ,a arm a. 2. 'am U z
a 'Whem a' ll'mplenuazdwctbﬁedi
1 07 [9 5. 33? QIi Red chawﬄﬂreyl
i V igd'QPO 5 lPu'jDZe 5 Yellow Z
1 L WHPJFZDIP l-S'Igy Oalour or'BlﬂWE
j I? ibﬂcﬂ. La 07? Vzr'ſiow mevgujayvz
3) I? '5.d'. Amimewmmweddw
By that Table L't- appears that 23.? 513. areſhrew to 5
bubo' 5' PZnemz'es, mule/"attend &Pea-am at'Make-ab,
Bub &terwast Bat/er Zy Two-my' agree/nerw/
'mſſalmwpuazay JwZJauwe a; Powaramd at. a-Z- ſi'
&BubEnenM byﬃe/gopmmon/ goﬂowa are 5
5353. 2: aZro gaaday LZuÞEWZyEvaZaZL'm/
amzqzhoattaaa aazdamz if a" 9.'
'w'vvv
'v'v'w'q
v'
-
i t
+C
V.
r
'vvv
'A*-A*A-.*_xx-xu-AAA
A
An;
g-
-A-
A
a
-
whywvvv
v
'
v ,v_"'. v_v v v v vvvv v v - i TA/T/l
'
'
I
' .
Q
0
o
-
I
l
\ . _
'
'0
'
l
* .
o
\
.
I
'
l
o
r '
I
1
'
o
-
'
a
\
I
-
' '
' '
'
. I
a. A
.' .
In' p ' ' *,
._. ' ..
q ' '
\
'5
l
'
'
I
'
'
'
'
>
. '
\
\
.
'
1
'
p .
o
'
,- U
G
a. n
u. 0
"
'i
'
* '
n
I
'
-
1
0
* 1
a
0
'
a
.
.
\
- U
In
ﬂvcﬂz
a.
a
5.
XSN
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
wamzſhwb
2.
5
usage?
YZZYPZHW
0
&Top.
WM.
n
a
N
a
x
a
N
C
K
C
N
U
N
q
ﬄ
m
e
,
do.
Pa
ZIQ
ﬁe
wem
iz.
ws
mh
an
Sena
wſſwm
HPſzeOBOx/zzq
w
i
r.
.1
W
P
A
J
Z
P
B
J
Z
Pﬁoe
m?
.t
.
+
o
f
+
o
ﬄ
(
,
p
r
a
_
+
n
\
z
o-
s
w
a
r
m
e
n
'
4
0
1
9
9
9
9
9
4
9
9Loo9
m
m
ſ
ſ
o
t
x
n
s
n
z
z
t
o
b
in
He
YATP
0.
A
a
.
ﬄ
u
a
n
u
u
u
a
a
henne
nﬂw.
I
n
r
o
ﬂ
z
n
ﬁ
f
k
ﬃ
j
+0
To
waxed
no/'M
_
,_._.
_
1
U
_
.
_
_
1.
uumawaſſm
uwmm
H
P
Z
W
P
/
x
t
n
ﬁ
a
f
ﬄ
o
.
tom/1230.
z
a
d
_
P
,
(
_
P
/
z
o
.
0
.
Ox
/1
nto-Pa
w
.
.
_
.
a
r
m
u
w
w
w
m
w
man?
Hﬄ
_
f
.
o
.
z
.
o
n
o
r
C
22
40
ﬂoat?
V
U
m
X.
dmmammm
a
m.
mmm
.
na,
z
z
t
o
p
c
ﬂ
f
z
Y
an
Pea.er
J.
.
r
S
QFWZWWM
Wﬄwﬄw
mſh
ﬄ
ﬂ
c
ﬂ
f
z
e
z
n
o
.
c
dis
.
V
e
.
1
J
a
w
-
a
d
d
e
d
..
x
c
h
z
r
o
p
e
f
H
e
e
l
s
.
&BLZM
'J
'H.._
->
\
-
o
'HH n . - -
'
a
p A .
i '
'
' - -
' c .
'
* \ \
i '
* -_ " - ...._4,__
-
\
'
' 0
, ſ
a
' i
' \ '
-
' '
n
\
l \.
. a
'
a. .
p
I
\
l
' \
-
..
i '
, '
\ I
o
'
'
s
0
I
'
'
\
-
A '
'
ſi \
\ o
I .\
a
a
1
' o
* * .
' ' ' 1
i
. >
. - ,, n
-
s
I
. \
1 \ A A' . r
1 a
I
4 '
l _ \ X _'
' r
' ' ſ
- o'
* u .\ 5
' - '- --> -.. q 1,
I
'
t
'
'
a
Air' -
a ' ""*.L
* '\'"-""' nL .
A Table Em'h'hſi'g a! one Way ihzflancb Iſrthle and
' Aca'dazml IodzZudUd-Deþz'lihkſ. ---
.v.
_v
a..
s * Dzþnffz'cſſ l DFIIflitch'
Mende ÞZJPQQG Mmtz'al 'zza L'QC'
In Liar/'e 'ſi 5 [nDdrctm-Itt _ 5
Faultadſion ſ'z [all . eke 7 _4
Ih'jrbaty V Ponyrz'ne ___ 5
_ .70_y orTa-m dlﬂdctlﬁll *
He: J- 1 ſ'z Meſwag/Zh 5
Acadﬄzlal hym arsz-M I- 2
mymzdmzaMH/'M 5 i Mrayrade " 5
ſeventhhumane-LA 4 &mew-t v ct 5
ſtrand arllﬅh ct 3 JYOW ill-Idka a i 2.!
In ana c'i 2 Bag-dazed' 5
In Third ,J', 1 meo'a/zoraſ 5
. iji (bmþuﬂ *\ 5 Dido if V ) Vct 5
, In ſ'nlctnuſi_ 5 ILnoſcada [tas 5
Bird-I' 'i 4 [bayidntt'onMQ-ih 4
' mnﬅm Mmem V' 2 arm ape/"gora' 4
Bare-tyed yaaf' ** 5 PWZaa/zerﬄ 3
Padmzrqymﬂ/gng 5 3 z "a;- v - V 2
_ ' 5 zﬁ
. fbyctunlzſiahyﬂyuw d 2 Q or C Ouml 9
Dizo WLJWM'L'B { ſouth [ailtudt V 2
Df' wd/z-Inﬅa 5 In am?sz a! 'ii
a .'/ 5 G . -
D- alrcturum merit-he' 'i at iſ A!
o . l/ ll_g0'A-l<'i_{v_ l;:';.l itſ l'l
ſip' [du Form [My-'utter m: llfl'lllla'di' &if.
Maloſſmm Wſi InU o-JC sLHIn/z/l (form 3" *
lime of 3." 20' am- I'wa1- 1" 'lie/ZMFa'j/z
JM 15 MII *!L__Fxlh<-6'"'
of? or 9' , In '57 (1_, Jawsﬃ
,Tz ga- dazed-12 M Manner-i .__z. [byraft-719er 5 ' 1
-, , 7- ' n 7 der/I lloaſ- "Larynx-ﬁva ſ
'9 gore p 1.. zf'ar>5.MHo15/33- _$-z_ww.aam/Jw ſ,
-]7WM ſ "" ct"7 2 dream-th Z'LNM (Inwabyzna' if
*r 'r (ſ t 1- t
.]n Ttrm aonrB'l d Szzzifg
.I'L Iayz L' 1 nﬁ-mnfﬂcr 9C* ſ' * 3 a "X
7 * A. inch Eva" ,z3--- _
J'uml'aiald 7 &UMCJM;_ t , ,_A i
þzhawraſubxtrad "Xſ-at Can-bad 29' ﬄ 7 A _ e
,. Bm'm'rg; xﬂzy'uctﬁe/ ﬂew-My 5 A do cept
' &La. - - - ._. _ . - V_V.V.v.v.v_v_, ,v. _ _ , _ . _ . _'.v.*.*_ -'. A
U
-
\
o
\
'
, '
'
'
'
,__z- n-hc-_*_'ſſ "
i , , pin'd Lw . ' '3 quCL-l -, wi] 'Al
. a > Wit WHEN) WH w, with! il
\ by a .* - -' t ' *
0'4" ,
.._ _i _
_ 0 ._/v_*.
'\ XT
\
ly"
ſ; Want
l
i'ſ
-1l'.lz..
.! ._
l
for
i 3 * \\*'
'hſſ'ſſ 'iſ \'[* lſſ' ..'- t'ii' -* * l 1 1 l
37' a L' 'XM \ Aſ" i [i 1
ſ
&LLQZB'T'
'yf-in' i
., JZL-c A; _;;z{z;,n<D/,alj
- \
'3 1 i
A
'l\
I
l
l U jju r i >\ i
l i .\ l p 'nt 7 _\_,4_"7ctf;.ull ® ſſ* ,ſſ -- Xl
i'iiiuctii-'liſhm'nil ' -Wmmﬂlihﬄiiullﬄnium:3'in
'I
\,v,s.,\
AA > * ._4 U _ _ _ 4 H u UAx-zr]
,wau-L ,o ,mi Cap zjl
dun-py' *3\ ZMZVJDMQJL [1
who' i, U LLWAP Sena-lip lj
My," /\ [07 il
> "ac * man. -
< a', w 3 A _, o-o A: l
-'* a NNW" 7 ii
"V M- L.
each , -- _ w z
815de xShQ 7 031.. "Hulqu
I 33 V? (ZAZct-dei.
'r-v' 3 I 'I vrv-rﬁﬂ
' , 1 , _ _ . r
\
We
9 -
' " - 'I 'J 6' r
(Say-i JII 7 q , Do . a RLH a r
a't ' 3 '. if? >- .
K i ﬂictuiyﬁ i w
. as :
JFQWK ſſlcter alſ? A
MMJ. [1.
. 55 j
I
.
'
73
'i
l
"ﬁr 7 "7 _v_.v\v_. r-N_
4*_4* -L:_4-4_-_M_Hu
____-- p _
\
'
1
. l
'
a' a' ' . 3 .* Id'.
I*' \
i. ' \\ ' )
'
I, ' I
"
_ '
' _ '
17 '
1 ' p
*'
a '
I
'
. uſ 1
'W
I ,\.
i
\
.
.
. ,
f-L J ' _ _
1' * o ' '
f , _
_) l . t '
rF . I
y \ '
- p 0
. I U
.
U N. l
' J 5' I
3
r A
' _ _ , _
- '
_'
-\ \
'
' I.
\
-
- -3 '
uſ
.'- I
._ cus'K' * t' ,
a" \ s
'
i ' '
-
O
' I
O
I
) l -
*'T
.
'
.
.
\ I
.
. .
' f"*'- '
> K .
. ſ - '
I
- \ . * '
.
. ' r ' ' r b
. ' ' '. - A' '
\
I
' * a .
\ I. ' l. ſ' l
l '*
I
, , ' \ _
. 5'- " ' 1 '
ſ n , , ' l d _ _
. ' \ * * \I 0- -
'
_ _"' '
p
' "p a _ J
i
-. i' w B \
. 5 5 -
4- 1' , I
I - \ .' .
* '
- w - 7 - >) _ \
O * _
' . \
* ' ' 4 ſ. 4 .
l '" \ _ \_ I j-- x- .
't ' I'
_ '
' _ . . _ I
1
- "1. ' _\ p
l * be -. ;_ ' \-. . \ '
I l *
'a ſ " - i
' 1 ' _ _ K \ ' ﬁ. ' \
y A ' I . £'__ ,'
a
. _ W
* . "* . _ "\ \' '
. . A . .- -.
i
\
.\ _ \
l . 1 * at' a ' '1 \\ ' \' 3) y
. 4 ' t_ - .s '
'-\ v- . - . . 'a '- n. q . ' \ _, . 3., UP'*U r',_w""
i '
' '
\
-
311--
-_
m-A
<-
z
-
5
yoke
tebra
'at
(T
*q.
(a
=r>z
Yſfz
'a
Icz
va
it
75125
10
ire-ce:
25
'as
25
'g
'e
Lzr,
w;
ws
zz
"ﬄzz
15
'as
"p
as
"e
JZZ
'a
z'Tz
1:
us
"azer
'a
-s
z
'e
1rz
"a
th
'p
_;oz\
15
zoz
'pioz
*(c
oz-'gs
03
'a
oz
'5
'foe
33
36r
-a
m
"76361'
'25
or
'p
Tat
*c
56:
*#j61."d
5
81'
at;
;8T.
je,
et
'a
'St
"e
yet
"Her
29
lQT Aſ
zp
21
xcgctt
'is
Far
'g
[I
'a
get
reft/it
723
_.
91
16
91
'a
I9119
i91
'C191"tt,91
3
or
-z
'
"g
ﬁr
*6
fgt
"e
FQT
"ab-1
'pis-1:
*@19I
'or
s:
Frzr
15;
z'Þ-T
"is
'VL'CL
w
*6£r>r
'as
ger
'a
er
'p
zr
'a
IQI
TPZLT
'e
'21
'refer
I
'S'l
*6}ſſ£ſ
43
321
TSq'Zl
*e
at
'as
Zl
War
*C£Zſ
an
'a
an
'ﬁll
wzzlt
'an
"e
TL
'a
TI
*p
It
'e
70!
'P
'01
"e
or
'Nor
&jot
"60!
'gear
'A
530'
"e
e
"aſs
10'6
To
as
'Lo
'a
18
*Q,8
'He
*=e9
"as
10
8
Yea
A
zu
"cz
Hajz
-g
2
ws
z-
vzz
'52
'p
'9
-zz\9
'P
9
'e19
9
"dis
'6
9
'ex
15
9
"as
"afs
"99
'c's'srs
'QE
A'
As?
'4an
'or
1?
17
'z'tv
'p
r;
'art
is
wis
'Oak-sit
9
'its
fele'
'e
Q
'35
13
"Yiz
-ﬁi5
TPIZ
'ch
'zaz
'43
'a
*Q.'E
*BII
'elf
'ﬁll
"pſr
"at
'a
await
M
t
&waiveng I
_
_LL,_
AQHMMY-QJLAWSML/fvewſſ
maw-5'
.
ſllllyzp
&inn/22.qu
Wm
i
vzzzuu'uſſATxm
Jaſsxmajſxſfazmwﬂ
ſi
91'qu
V
i
i
'g/ſgſ
T
ÞZQIZAZ-ﬄ-WTW-W
-
_
xnoſſ,
ia'n'
ry]
22_4_,71
[Lz
ply/'4
maw,
azzzlzrzww
dcz
>,
QLZJ
V
Jrgxrg'zrzuqm
mzqqz'ouwr
auctmu
[pm
I.
.
if
f-r
V'
-.-. ..._
.\-'N 0
.-_
a L
J'lzaﬄ ﬃz Quart/12
--. be -
jeu-25; and ſl/sz .'
531leer 10. Aſ.J'dJII
z'zz Me Momzizﬄ .
0
1
t
*
lax-a
"He/'w
Ver/9weﬄuz/WUJWKZWINWIH<It>vlmzz>ﬄzzea>m
*
ſi
ſi
*
Tſſ
(Hoguyyſh
/7./_111\
(NAL
0;
may
teral)
gulzſdy/ja
m
uz/
,
i
ill/ſ
mw
ﬂawſ'
Wart/ſo
'all/A127/pulzgz/uyſqzﬁf'zzzyequzl
i
'lb i i ails:
v
4- *..'
i ſin',
'i :. l
'le F* ..
'lgv' a. '
u'p
..,
---..___
1-_--_A-_-___*_________-
.'_
-
'av
'1.
A-
*.v
.>"
o/
ſhzi Zp
' l m
i' -7 e;
if
\S':>0
ſ
I'ſi'ct Ya) <-
a' ſ?
'x
K
q A
'
'ﬂ r
*
\'
'
.- .
_ A
'.'
I
0
'
o
'51.
o"
'
",ſ"\
A > no so
apd, \ "* 'IN _ '/_ . 1 38 ' ly)
.. : 1 . - \ a :
* I ' . 1:- Q - * 33
LFQ * 1 X O 'qbſſg l
' 5
._ 0
George Priatcc of
Wale s.
Xs' ﬂow' lzfoﬂcgwſ. -
' , 9 2.?" ' 0',
4 yﬂ' 20 m.]". all _ ,l
9 .
Ox q ' ' 5) i 'Al
9 T 1 "62. . , O
?_ \ a19- 'rg
, ,
lum/de 55 -,12
K
ﬁ'
A.
I
'aunt-v"-
o
c-u
'ﬁt
en'
s
'
'I
'a
.
a
a
-
s
A'
1'0'
'
'3
'
a'
'I
\
\
\
-
nt
I
\
_
I'
n'
to
'
\
a
a
-
un'
a
c
.
\
..
'
'
l
\
a
.
I
'
\
u
i
.
l
'
n
*4--.-.- .*
I
i'v,
m
u
..
r
i _.'-
1
_ſi_
4
I
l
'eſi
an.
qA.
_
0
'a
,
a
.
>'
n
_
,
-
v.
4
o
I
'
.
.
.
'A
x.
..
.
1
x
..
.
.
N
o
.
.-
0
1
,
'
i
.
,
A
'
.
-
..
.
,
1
'
n
_.
1
.
I
,
.
\
.
1
-
.
.
..
I
-
a
.
1
'
.
x
_
.
7
.
.
,.
A.
1
.p
.
.
.
'
i
'
\
p
u.
\
.
.
.
A
.
'
I
i
\
A tfoncqjllz'onaz
'* urc
a'
5 . zl'Z-'wnA-v'.
'10. I e? . 'rath
in ﬃr Jſozvzz'ng. _
l
i
ſi
5
A
ſ , A
a
_____ a \ '
__*_ I
r a
.Vc':re2- .
-_--1.-_--_-- 's'kn
MAN/I of - L'Iﬄ'nMa/y. Luke
_ .- - wonne - .
'a
'o
l
Q
.
.
.
.
.
\
.
'\
\\
.
...
.
\\
.
i '
' .
I 'no-'e
1
o
ſ "
s v ' _ _'
L z
r'"* '
I
_ .
_ O
'
a
'
\
\
\
-
-
p
\
n
\.' _ .
-
' \
'
. . ', '
_ . . A
\ U
i':' I
I
L
- l , '
'., l,A i
n
. o" "
'-'l! '
-
'
l
\
'\\\* l'
'
'
'
"Thank 'WTS
K
lſ"
'7
1 \ my . , L _ * ,f:\\ >_'
'ſo ,PI'OVE &TT-War; orct ' 'a ſſaNaﬁVC.E
. i * - Ill-T (ctF/Itl Drli ,lIﬂ/INFZ
"xg / [thyHotDry cM-wr..... F i;
er 73z yea/(1 ﬂy Jk/aMz/M, Zj
IN: mllot Jſoa'd ,fmymmz ,_ T
I? 'a Xct-la' . llM'ſſ/IALVIIZMM, .
12) &He/dal Coldamid/Wt....,.,..,..., 2
3 &Marjoram.L@/;.......... ſ.
3
o" &1187le Hot and ,b{%,. .............. 'i
Oſi Ucadazctbct flhﬄ, ......................._
5?- U/'t'o/M llot and VVind-ſ....... .. ,
2 owl/am Jſotd,......... 5;
g omm Hot.... ........... ......
Q &maſſ-maw,..........................
D mſictmſ uHal '
E ſimn u to doflota/zdﬄz-z/_________
D ﬂomdokv u Gv/dmm'ﬀhy....... ..
il) ﬃomumdcſioﬁimui ....... V:
'Springflot and _
Summerfſot 1
Autumn Cold anciſhy............ .. il
Winter (but andſhoot,.........._. II
'W/V'MWo/TMM..........
W-w- 'We ' w-v- v-v-w - '
...
- A A B L E
n- -A-A- - --- . ._ . . A' 'A . v
ſſﬃoſſw calczdaiciafſhrVEZME ſſjlþeyrwſſ
- 32 Nzhuier'byjoubZeA/bmg/ Tables.
.' ' 15'oZ ire Arieſ >j
ZA.R Em- 10 11 12 Aﬅmw 2 5
TD M 'ſum/'ſoon Hozſſe Had? His/5 W Haec/i' Paſſ
i ' H vM m DUMDJIMD. MD/ngzzM;
8 4022 2726 4212 49 2 55'
9 4623 2127 2513 20 5 22
10 5 241523 214 4'412
11 5825 928 4 14 48 5 2.
15 526 2115 31 5522
54
_
v_v_v_v.v.
'ALMA'A*A
m
-
5®®<W>Þwwſioſſc>ſi
onO
p o
QOOQQOI'PUtOt-io
5011 4311 5 29. 14 21 5;
5112 5112 5 29 5822491
5113 1913 1- ora'4223 41.
5014 815 5 1 2724 55.
5014 5714. 5 2 1225 25;
4915 4515 2 2 57 26 18;
4816 5015 51 5 42 27 11
4L17 1616 51 4 zsi
. ,v_v_v. _ _Tv_v_ . . .
0
o
0
0
0
55 o 18 4 326 OJZ 116 13 542
0 22 L15 1=27460416 57731£
250 26 16 1628 58 1 217 58 8 21E
3 210 29 17129 292 011320911:
i 160 35 18 02320 2 5919 510 2i;
i 110 5710 19 25 1 10 3 1919 461052z
11 so 4011 20 28 1593 5920 291145
In 20 44i 12 21 31 2 49 4 3d21 1312531
311 570 48 15 22 34 5 58 5 1721 561524;
z12 550 51 14 25 57_4 27 5 5722 401415-v
313 are 55 15 24 40 5 16 e 36'23 2315 6:
'- 0 5916 25 426 571524. 7155
' 1 5 17 26 44 6 53 7 5524 5016 48?
1 6l18 27 46 7 41 a 3525 141742
1 1019 28 47 8 50 9 1426 1818 31'
1 1420 29 48918-9 5327 219 3
1 13 21 0114910 610 5427 4520141_
1 21 22 5010 5511 1 23 3021 5:
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
01
0' 'a an
lowamo-'Lu
ton-i
'4
* u
*
* m* 'H P'u-Wmh
i ﬁvﬁwm
i
a:
'R'
- I
"1
ſ r >_
', a' 5' r! "-_ '1.
3 ſſſi _ i
i/þgſia a
"if-'ſ i
___,_- M'V .
5 xg wſ?- .
{
/
\
i up'
A
- I
r'ﬂ i
ﬂ/ yf),
- _) I '0. *
ſi
__ .- 1
4
i
p
-
-
\ a
A .
ado ' '
.. -
1- \
. _ .
I ' -
\\-' A. . "
5 \
'
t
p ſ .
o, a
4 I'll .
a
' 1
..
Z- '
.-",
_ '
'3
' . p '
1 l 'U'
* l
.
\ __i_-Þ-*
e
-
] '
I a
' u' _ , I c
'* i . r' *
I .
a
'up ,.'*
* '
.
i A \
- . f
.. ' ' o. -* -
. L
' * 'dy
4 ſ I
U ' a
n' i
. r '
.
* ' -
i _ I
n * ' '
ſ '
'- '
- , a
I
- s A
. I 1 -
' 3" t
I!
1' .
_ r' * '
I idJ
i '
\
e
- - _ 1 A \ Jh
f
'
'
I
'I
a
\ N'
a
'
'
U
0
"
'
i .
n\
A
' ' _
'
-
a
i
_ p
'
'
U'
A. T A. B L E 3
- A
Qfﬁſoq/Zſſ calculat'ed/br Me latitude 4/5] Day/'ges
32 Water by double Ham/3' Timeſ
J'ai inſuunzf
LA. R Time 10 11 12 wem-a 2 _ 3 ,
'D MﬁaleM HOZg/c" Bag/If ﬁrm/2' "2 Horſe Hareſ? _
H M U DnMDZBMD. MDmMDmML
327 541 52 o 9 4717-1616 31 4 2828 4
128 4511 55 1 10 4518 517 11 5 1328 573
v129 491 59 2 11 ASFB 5117 55 5 5929501
130 462 3 3 12 4119 59}8 31 6 44 an:
,31 442 7 4 13 5820 2619 12 7 29 1 37:
132 422 11 5 1455le 1319 52 a 14 251
35 402 15 6 15 3222 020 32 9 0I 3 252'
34 342 19 7 16 2922 4721 13 9 4-7 419':
35 372 25 _8 17 2523 3421 5110 34 513:
56 562 26 9 13 2124.-2122 3511 21 6 7',
'37 552 30 10 19 1725 723 1512 s. 7 1z
'38 542 34 11 20 1525 5325 5712 55' 755;
59 552' 58 12 21 1026 3924 3813 42; 849:
40 322 42 13 22 727 2625'1914 so. <>45£
41 512 46 14 25 428 1226 015 17 0 37.
42 312" so 15 24 028 5926 4210 41162;
45 312 54 16 24 5629 4627 2416 5212-27.
44 312 58 17 - 25 52003328 617 4013 2213
45 '315 . 2 18 26 48 1 2028 4718 2814 17:
45 525 6 19' 22 45 2 729 30191615 15;
47 335 10 20 28 42 2 54 0111320 416 9:
43 335 14 21 29'39 3 41 05520 5217 65
49 545 13 22- cer-35 4 29 1 37214013 2;
50 553 22 25 1 so 5 17 2 2022 2818 57.
51 563 26 24 2 26 6 6 3 25 1719 52
52 383 3) 25 3 21 6 55 54624 620 48.
53 403 35 26 1 17 7 44 42924 552144
54. 423 59 27 5 1 8 33 5 1225 4522 40'
55 4 5 43 '28 6 8,9 21 5 5526 5423 35,
56 463" 47 29 7 510 9 6 3927 2424 52
57 485 51 50 7 58 0 58 7 2 28 1425 29£
1
l
' '
\
4
N \ lx I\* ' ſ
) I _ Fy k . .
)_\ *- 1 1
., pr _ _ I I
t' ' . 2' \ Lo' \ . _ _
of-u' .' ' tl' (A t.
\ *\ k , A 2 _
' ' F' - * ' X '
a . h a o *
" -l I' '* * K a.
r _ Z _
no
i I _ J _ r
-
'
'
'
Al" _x__ . - . . . [\\\ I ..- .
'i _
0 if " i
l
' 'l
;v
i
'
O
4'
.
\
H
\
.
\
. ',
'
"
- i
o
i i
1
I
\ , . 1
'
p \, a
A _ - 5
s _ 1 U
-' - . 'urv-v I" 7* '*"*'
' '
I
.
'
-
- . ,. _ _ t
' I'
- ſſL"Þ-' 'd-n_ - A. A ful; > iſ I.
_ ._._-___*._,_. ._- -- - anon-a -
A. TA
ſſﬃaq/eſſ; caldzlaledſhr ﬂelahſiiadc aſ 5] Leg/'Far
* 32 Minute-5' b/ double [zrorary ﬁmcx
BLE
JbZ zſin Gemini -
7.',
_f_ﬀ_v_.v_jv_v_
_
v
v,
v
'
v
_v.
v
v,v
v,v_
v
v
',v<v_v_v_*_v_v_1
'_"_':v_v_
._72'me 10 11 12 2 3 5
Moon Houﬅ Houſh Hoq'e How
'M DEBMDIZM DUIZM'D-A-Mſi
51 0 7 10 25 1425 29?
55 1 z 11 29 426 25;
0 2 9 4912 29 5527 211;
4 3 10 4513 he 4628 18';
a 4 11 4114 1 5629 15"
12 5 12 3515 2 270m12
16 6 13 9415 3 18 1 9
21 7 14 5 16 4 9 2 6
25 8 15 2617 5 ' 0 9 a
29 9 16 2213 5 514 0
53 10 17 1819 6 42 4 57
as 11 13' 1419 7 a. 5 51
42 12" 19 1 20 8 24 6 51.
'46 16 20. 21 9 15 7 43
51 14 '21 322 10 6 a 4;
55 15 22 oza 10 57 9 31:
59 16 22 5624 11 49 10 39
a * 17 23 52 5 12 41 1151-1
a, [8 24 4725 13 6212 1
ral 19 25 43 5 14 2415 30
[6 20 26 39 27 15 15 14 27Þ_
21 21 27 3528 16 7 15 gaf:
25 22 23 6129 16 59 16 goi
29 23 29 7omz 17 twin 171
34 24 00, 0 18 4218 14:
58 25 1 1 19 6519 11 if
43 25 2 2 5520 25 20 ag
47 27 a a 21 17 21 5*:
51 23 4 4 2722 9 22 2;
56 29 5 5 25 122 59,}
o 60 6 6 23 53 23 565:
_ _v_v_v_v_\v,v_v.v_'v.v. . . . _
U'- 'n ' 'ii /
t. 5' / i \ 'ſi . ſip
t .- n 'Vl *
._- a: ' '
' QTZ i
'ny a' . unbi
_'
* \ 'I
'yf ſ
3:
w. :
\ ., a
I
I \' \
\' 'r
; " *
i *'
ſir A lez is Quilt"
J. l
lﬁ \
' ſ ,, .' H
e.- _i A' 'i
1
i
'
-
l
1
J
'
'
,L
\
. _*':=.*
W- r
A TABLE .
ﬃwſſmhdakdſarﬄeldcﬁzde ﬀctlþeyreef l
\**\ 32 Mmias' by MZeEraſy Iſiſ/'m '
JOZz'n Cancer
'A.R YL-me 10 11 12 wem, 2 5
ID MMYMFW Paſſ Huﬃ Hozﬄ' Fwſh .
: ' H. M U DAMDYUZMDAMD-A'MDTYLIII
390060 o 636400235323 56;
191 56 4 1 7 0656047244524 55t
£9211 6 9 2 7 58 7 43 1 5525 5725 50'
_-95 16 6 15 5 855 841 2 1926 2326 47;"
-94 6 17 4 952 9 55 5 527 2027 44>1
295 27 6 22 5 104810 25 5 5128 1123 40*
196 52 6 26 6 11 4511 17 4 5729 229 56;
.97 53 6 51 7 12 4212 9 5 2529 5504' 55
_-98 45 6 55 8 15 5 15 2 6 9011144 1 29'
399486 59 914561554655156225
,100 53644410 15551446 740226 521_
:10153648 11 16515 578 26517417
.105 5 6 52 12 17 2716 25 912 4 3 512
{E104 8165713 18217 209574596 8
;105 15-7 1 14 19 2118 1210 45 5 50 7 4
:106 17 7 5 15 201819 '411 23 6 41 3 0
:107 22 7 9 16 21 1519 5512 14 751 8 56
{108 26 7 14 17 221220 4612 59 8 22 9 55
:109 51 7 18 18 25 921 5715 45 91310 50
Egg) 55 7 22 19 '24 6322 2814 5010 511 46
: 59 7 27 20 25 525 1915 1410 5512 42
: 12 45. 7 51 21 26 024 915 59114215 58;
5115 47 7 55 22 26 5725 016 4412 5114 54
;114 51 7 59 25 27 54 25 5117 2915 2015 50
,115 54 7 44 '24 25 5126 4115 1414 916 26
'ns 57 743 25 29 4827 5218 5814 5817 22
118 1 7 52 26 0124528 2519 4215 4718 18
119 4 7 56 27- 114229 1420 2616 5619 14
120 7 3 o 28 2 5902 421 1017 2520 10
121 9 s 5 29 5 55 0 552154181421 5
122'1'3 9 50 4 52 1 4622 5819. 222 1
* A
1
ſſATABIQE
32 lſz'wuiar by double Afar-dry Tz'meu'
ſQ/ﬃﬂzzſhy cdcuZaZe-djbr Meldctudc g/'JZ Day/'car .
ſ
Sol z'n Leo
JA. R IYme 10 11 12 ſlender/t 2 3 :
A D M ﬁvme Haqfe Muſt'- Earl/e'- A Iſozgſ [ſong/2 '
- H M. 72, DWMDm-MD. MDnLMDJ'Mi
:122 12 8 9 o 4 32 1 1819 222 1>{
'123 14 a .1 - 1 5 26 2 2219 5122 57£j
124 16 8 1 2 6 24 3 520 4023 53;
: 5 Lgfa 21 5 7. 20 4 4621 2624 49:
.126 2 3 25 4 a 16 5 5222 1725 45';
1127 22 a 29 5 9 12 5 1623 626 40?
1122 24 a 54 6 10 a 6 5923 5427 35
1129 25 a so 7 11 4 7 4124 4223 51
f130 26 a 42 a 12 0 a 2325 3029 27,
3131 27 s 46 9 12 56 9 626 1801/ 22;
1132 28 a 50 10 13 9 4227 6 1 16
5153 28 a 54 11 14 10 3027 2 14;
13154 29 8 5_8 12 15. 1329 5 10;
5135 29 9 2 13 16 55 29 4 7;
1156 29 9 6 14 17 3913 361011 5 6-_
37137 29 9 10 15 18 2813 18 1. 5 591
9198 29 9 14 16 19 2314 o 1 6 557
2239 28 9 16 17 20 ' 41 2 7 52!
3140 28 9 22 18 21 22 5 6 49:
_-141 27,; 9 26 19 22 4 4 9 46;
3242 26 9 30 20 23 \ 45'4 5510 12
443 25 9 34 21 2-3 26 5 4 11 39
5144 23 9 33 22 24 6 6 12 55
3145 22 9 41 25 25 4220 47 7 1 15 51
1146 201 9 45 2-1 26 - 28 a 12 28
1147 18 9 49 25 27 "a a 4715 25
3146 16 9 55 26 23 '23 46 9 5416 25
3149 14 9 57 27 29 zTo 2217 21
-':.5o (110 1, 28 02 911 918 15.
Lzsa 9 10 5 29 1 624 4712 5011 5619 16.
g152 6 0 a do 1 6625 3215 5012 20 15
"
a
II'IEIVL
V
.
A-A
'ch-
uv
A
uu-m
A
.
_
.
.
..
-._.._....
15
15
59
4
61
9
15
41
95
45
09
o
11
o
091
51
05
99
9
625
49
91
99
95
65
99
'11
9
641
9
6[
171-
9
'5
'5
99
91
91-
95
95
99
11
01
941
.5
9119
9
61
1
1191
89
55
45
65
1191
441
£99
9199
9
692-0
65
'51
9
55
95
91-
1105
941
zo9
91
9
9
69
654591
61
95
95.
55
11
95
941
in;
91
91
5
05
6'69
St
85
55
95
99
1109
541
11
9155
1
01;
8555
51
99
15
95
59
1195'
941.
49
51
59
410
1
8569
11
87:
05
55
19
1105-
54513'
3179
1111
65
55
1599
01
49
61
15_
45
1199
141'
09
0109
95
19
955101
4
61
05
95
1165
041
.95
6
69
455
95
096
41
91
6T
ba
1199
691.
195
9
6
45
95
954179
v95
41
01
91
1169
891!
515
4
61
95
95
551-
9
99
91
41
51
119
691
61
9
09
95?
1515
4
91-
91
91
6
11
9
491
91
9
15
ÞZW;
951.,9
99
51
91
9
1151
991
91
5
99
95
95
5599
9
'
9
51
51
1
11
41
991
91
9
9
-
9
51
91
91
49
or
15
591
51
5
41_
5
05
51
51
59
0195
991
91
-1
65
559
65
11
11
09
0165
591
ZI
s:
If
*
89
5
99
01
01
91-
01
99
191
rm
65
99
1715
95
6
6-
55
0149
091
_
111,959
091.
'99
9
9
69
0115
691
11
45
41
91-
o
9
9
4
99
01
91-
991
01
9565
'5111011
4
9'
19
0195
491
6.
9515
6561
9
9
45
0119
991
6
5599
9545
9
1;
55
0119
991
01
95
9
45
99
17
9
05
01
49
191
11
55
61
45
55
9
5
91
01
0
291
>
91
15
19
BZGÞ
5
1
51
01
9
991
in
OZVÞ
95
99
1
0
3
01
9
591
izwaqwza,
quva
an
.JN:
H
'
I:
aſheſ]
mal!
Pſ'IOll
aſſay
eſhoſz
um:me
a' 2
2
31'
It
01
w
I
V
3:
05242/1
u_2
zoy
I
se'sz
fume/7
922mrz
fq
WZW/iſ
59
1
1
J'JJdﬃJſſ/Qſh
apngzzpymdſſpszvzmﬄg
aﬄoA/ſh
v.
.-
.
.
.v.v.
..
.
."'.v
.
'
.,..
.
__
..v,
-
'I'IELVL
V
-
I
V
_
_
.
.
,_
_._.
_.
._
_
91
An:
a
91
SZGI
'6
9
zz
o;
39
are;
(9
szot
e
9:
zzze
9
91
TZ
sz
gv
c'r
he
.
zv
V
95
9
As
cz
se
A
9:
06
ez
w
U
0
9:
ezzv
9-6-Þ
zzr
A
Ae
6[
AZ
oe
He
or
zzoz
17
r
zz
91
9
Of;
at
93
99
£r9
59
oza
e
w
TZ
19
9
'29
At
sz
cs
er
6
iſ
61
9
z
9z
owe
17
6
Al
V
sz
91
ZT
a:
er
s;
arose
61:
v
at
91
cz
sz
91
91
zr
ALSÞ
GZÞS
919:
2
09
St
zz
m
et
6!
>9
Sl
99
egg
atte
z
Iv
'Þl
IZ
91
iſ
sz
*1>
V!
9z
Azcz
At
at;
1
Ft?
91
'
oz
H
'Et
Az
ſſ,
St
BT
gzsc,
gtrv
t
z
et
et
or
st
n
a
ZI
Tſ
SZÞS
91
oz
tom
Zl
81
9
at
99
'7
n
s
V
or
ST
As
'azw
tr
Aſ
9
er
62
z's
5
o
Szgz
He;
ease
o:
or
69
zr
w
w
e
99
tz
w
a
or
93917
6
91
99
zr
se
rz
A
es
ozcs
Z-l
9:
Azzc
9
H
(9
zr
zg
zr
9
IS
6t81
zr
zv
QZB
9
91
G'Þ
ZIAQ
a
s
09
91
si
11
69
9Z61
A'
Zt
w
er
ſi?
,
'Z
09
Aſ
ZS
Oſ
91
QZ
09
9
Iſ
Of
Zl
9
'V
Z
TS
9!
01:
or
I?
Half
9
,0\
A£
zr
rr
;£
r
29
srez
6
Air
9329
7
'6
"be
zr
91
991
;z
xdzc
H9f7
9
v
czz
v
8
ez
zr
oz
Aer.
>I
szr
my
_
e
oz
zz
m
9
A
92
Zl
sz
991.
>
939
21
va"
A
Ac
tZÞZ
z
9
zz
ZI
09
set:
zs
959
zz
w
9
es
ozw
I.
9
at
zrgs
Wl:
Hv
sz
at
[l
z
9
n
oz
gb'luo
V
91
51
ov
set;
w
kﬂAt
atoz
s
oz
6199
53
2
tI
at
Q-Þ
zer:
iſ
sz
zz
6
OP
I?
w
819
63
z
A
3109
ter;
,z
zz
Az
e
69
c
v
mer,
93
t
17
zr
99
culi'
a
[Z
29
A
61
2
lz
Alez
Az
o
o
no
081.
NWCINAQGW
'cINMaNﬄ'at
=o=
N'H
N
U
aﬅwg
aſmH
I
WUH
vſmﬄ
aſhaﬄ
vow-as'
9
z
paweſ
zt
It
or
man
H
'W
tum
If!
[OF
'
sawzz
&Aan
annoy
zſz'z
mzmajſ
35'
JVWNU
[Fſi
WZZUYWZ-IOFFPWJZU?
Nſh'QH/O
'
\
\
-
r
l'
t '4 -
i
p a .
ſ r
'_ \
* i
'
a
-
\ l
I
r
Iſ
' ' r 7
' 'I " ſuK ſ
.*' ,
i
.
.\
\
__r-- n-i-P "niſi
uh'A*
'4
A TAB L E z
- &Me/m' calm/alm'for tile Zotzkzde ſſﬁj bay/Pay 3
JZMÞzuZe-J Bydouble Ham-V ZZ'm65'
J'ai in J'cozﬁio
Tm 11 12 ſſ'M 2 3 'z
MFM Rag/2' FcuſeDJMHog/ſe' Holy/2:
H m DTT'LMDIM DW DXM
5413 o 22 69 1525 15 3 2527 13.'
51115 1 22 5610 526 5l0_4228 30'.
13 2 23 4610 52-5 5612 029 46'.
14 5 24 3711 3927 4715 20 no 2',
14 4 25 2612 2528 3915 41 2 13,
14 5 26 1915 1229 3016 4 3 55'.
14 6 27 1013 59 075-2417 13 4 52:
14 7 28 014 47 1 1118 53 6 10'
14 8 28 5015 36 2 1320 19 7_ 28;
14 9 2'9' 4016 26 3 1021 47 a 47;
14 10 013117 174 623 1610 5:
14 11 1 2218 a 5 321 4511 24;
14 21319 o 6 126 1712 42
14 5 419 51 7 027 4914 o_
14 3 5520 42 8 029 2015 16
14 '4 4721 34 9 2 0365616 35'
14 5 3822 2510 5 2 3117 53'
14 6 2923 1711 9 4 619 11'
15 7 212 912 14 5 4220- 29J
15 a 1525 213 21 7 1921 43
15 9 625 5514 '29 a 5723 6
15 9 5826 4915 3710 3724 24;
15< 10 5127 4416 4815 1325 42
3 15 11 4528 3917 531'4 027 0'
15 12 4029 3519 1115 4228 17'
3815 13 340'7 3220 2717 2429 35ﬀ,
4 15 14 28 1 2921 4319 a 05521
4215 15 22 2 2623 320 5412 9
2354 15 16 17 5 2424 2422 51 5 26'
123646 15 17 12 4 2325 4724'13 4 43
'32374815 18 a 5 2322 1026 5 5 0
'W
A T A B L ZE
' glaſſ; caZcuZaZeAZfortfzeZaZL'tzzde ſſJ/þqﬄrm'
BZMþzuZem dy danZe [Ya/'dry Timeſ '
A J'ai iſ: Jagycttarz'zu
A_ R Time 10 11 1 2 gaud," 2 3
I ﬁ-m/vwnIYouﬂ Holy? Hozy? V [ſay/'e Houſe'- '
'D'MH. M 1 DzMDp-MD. ZMDXMDUM;
2374815 51 o 13 8 5 2527 1026 5 s o-_
1258 5115 55 1 19 4 6 74428 5727 51 7 16
.1239 5416 o 2 7 26 maze 38 '
124d5716 4 3 8 29 1 371Y26
3242016 a 4 952311515
1245 ale 1 5 4810 55 448 5 5
1244 616 16 6 4411 as 6 27 6 56
z245 916 21> 7 4112 42 8 8 8 4
.2461316 25 8 3813 U 9 5 10 57
-247 1716 29 9 5514 5311 4012 27
j243 2116 33 10 5316 015 3014 16
2492516 38 11 3117 815 2016 4
ſ250 2916 42 12
*2513316 46 13
\
'l' ',t.
il' 1'
'1 ſ' l'q
' ſi .'_ 'Aſ
h
l '7 a
a 5/
'i
\
J U
o'
\N
__..
ſ, au
p
\,
A
aﬁ
,
o'
a,
.n_}
U
<
A TABLE ' I;
'I QfHozg/'ar calculatedſhrﬄzelaidzzde g/'Jj Day/'ces *
' 32Mz'rzzztey by double Earary Tzhzex
JOZ z'rz qurzZ-orrz >£
' )
LA. R Time 10 11 12 gf 2 2 5 j
: Frmzvm Had? Holy? L'on ,Y, ﬂow Bag/12 -
zD- MH. M 19- DerD_mMD MDUMDIM
1270 018 0 0 1e a 12v 19 0 0 17 41 11' 51j
'5271 618 5 1 19 1415 502 3719 1012 56:
1272 1218 9 2 20 2015 25 5 19 20 33 14 2;
3273 1718 15 a 21 2616 57 7 55 22 ,515 si
',274 22111 17 4 22 3413 3210 2925 3016 13:
1275 2713 22' 5 23 12- 13 224 5417 17,"
31276 3318 20 6 24 50 3726 1719 20;
3277 5313 "so 7 25 59 727 41 19 22;
(278 4319 do a 27 9 35 29 420-24;
j279 4818 59 9 28 19 0011 26 21 252'
1230 5311.; 44 10 29 25 22 1 45 22 20
-281 5818 48 11 === 38 43 3 523 28i
j283 319 52 12 1 48 o 4 23 24 30'
7294 319 57 13 2 59 16 5 5925 315.
'205 1319 1 14 4 10 27 6 5426 32;
[286 1719 05 15 5 22 33 8 827 33>I
I2a7 22119 9 16 6 34 39 9 20 23 33!
1283 2719 14 17 7 46 43 10 3129 32;
z289 3'119 18 18 a 59 42 11 4102'- 30',
*29o 3519 22 19 10 12 40 12 50 1 29?
'291 3919 27 20 11 27 31 13 58 2 27E_
1292 ,4519 31 21 12 40 20 15 5 3 ,25;
293 4719 55 22 13 54 5 15 11 4 23.;
,294 5119 59 20 15 3 17 17 5 20;
295 5419 44 24 [6 22123 3 '18 22 6 151'.
295 5719 48 25 17 37 13 19 25 7 13;
-'298 0 19 52 26 15 53 49 20 29 8 9 -*
7299 3 19 56 27 20 10 22 21 32 9 5.:
1300 6 20 0 28 21 270'Y' 12 29 53 22 3410 2 -
z'501 9 20 5 29 22 43 1 57 11123 23 35 10 59'
jaoz 12 20 9 30 24 o 3.41 2 50 24 3 11 55
'4
Þ'.
A TABLE
.._,. .- . .e_..
. , t
Wﬂozſſm caZadateaL/'or WZM ſſﬂ Deﬄw 3
32M.þy doaﬄe Envy ZZ'mz/J '
JOZ i'ZAgzzarM
A. Tm 10 11 12 -4ſtzn<7ant 2 3 .
R NNW HoLgZ How Hareſ-9' How Hom
D- When M m- DwMDW'MD. ȜMDIIMDOJM
302 [220 9 0 24 0 3 41 2 5024 3611. .55_
zoz 1420 13 1 25 17 5 264 1425 3612 51_'
304 1620 17 2 26 34 7 11 5 3726'3513 45_
305 162021 3 27 51 8'56 6 5327 3314 39
-306 2020 25 ,4 29 BJO 40 a 1723 3115 32
507 2220 29 5 ox 2512 25 9 3329 2816 26
508 ZJZO 34 6 1 4314 1010 49 052417 19
109 2520 as 7 3 115 5412 a] 1 2013 15
310 2620 42 a 4 1917 3713 1 2 1619 6.
511 2720 46 9 5 3719 2214 24 3 1120 0'
312 2720 50 10 6 5521 415 32 4 520 53.
313 28'20 54 11 a 1322 4916 40 4 5621 46
ſay-1 29 20 53 12 9 3124 2417 46 5 5122 59
515 2921 * 2 13 10 4926 2 18 55 6 4523 51
gle 29 21' 6 14 12 627 38 19 56 2 5524 25.
317 292'1 10 15 13 24129 13 20 58 a 27 25. 14
m 2921 14 16 14 4201: 5722 0 9 1826 5*
319 2821- 18 17 16 0 2 10 23 o 10 926 56
320 27 21 22 18 17 19 3 42 24 0 11 022 47
321 26 21 26 19 16 57 5 1124 58 11 5028 38
322 2521 60 20 19 55 6 4025 55124029 29
323 24 21 54 21 21 12 8 826 5113 29 0220
324 23 21 53 22 22 29 9 3527 4714 13 1 11
525212141 25 23 46]1 128 4115 62 1'
326 2021 45 24 25 3 12 2629 3615 54 2 51.
327 18 21 49 25 26 20 13 50 0052913 5413 2 33,
1 53 26 27 3715 13 1 22
Egg Him 57 27 '23 5416 56? 2 IZIS ZZZTZ
*" 9 - O'Y'1217 5 3 19
ZYZZZ 5123 129191635619 5675
532 6-22 ſiﬂ 50 2 4720 54 4 4520 44 7 5ſi
A
all
M
-I\u
'.,
'Mr
'-
\.I
.
.
,..
'
I)
"
I
.
a
xza1..
I.
.
i
Q
'a
l
I
p
r'
,z
2
'
All/I
ar
ATABLE. * '.
' Q/'HaaſEX allow/afﬂict;" ſhe Zaz'zctiude (Y'J/ Dayreal'
' * 32me by double Horaryſz'mm r ſ
ſo? zſin Pﬄey i
:A. R .72'rnev 10 11 12 Aſk-mind 2 3
' memH'oſſ Mlﬅ Hogſ? ſ How chﬀ? v
tD-MH M ac D_*Y*MDUMD"9MDGMD'-/ZM
ﬁ332 a o 2 4720 344 4520 44 7- 54?
3333 12 1 21 321 50 5 3521 41 a 43j
2354 16 -2 5 1923 - 5 6 2522 17 9 33
1334 20 5 6- 5524 157_ 1223 210 2,3_j
7335 24 4 7 5125 505- 023 4711 '1th
'7536 27 5 ..9. 626 42 8 4824 5112 21
-_;zz7 31 6 10 2127 53 9 3525 1512 .51*
,553 35 7 11 5629 510 2226 013 41
;339 39 8 12 51 on 12 n 7 25 4514 50'
_340 42 9 ,14 6 1 2011 5227 5015 19'
-341 46 10 15 26 2 2712 5723 1415 a
'542 50 11 16 33 3 3513 2323 5315 57
&543 54 12 -17 45 4 3914, 729._4217 46,
izzm 57. 13 18 57 5 4414 54 0J12513 35'
3p45 1 _14 20 9 6 4315 55 1 919 25
5346 5 15 21 21 7 5116 17 1 5220 14
547 a 15 22 52 3- 5417 1 2 36 21' 3
5543 12 17 23 43 9 5617 44 3 49 21 52
4548 16 13 24 54 10 58 18 26 '4 2 22 41;
L549 20 19 26 5 1] 5919 9 4 4625 sq'
'350 23, 20 27 16 15 019 52 5 3024*19>
551 27 21 23 2614 020 55 6 14 25 8'
552 31 22 29 3615\ 021 15 6 58 25 wſ;
'553 34 23 054515 5921 56 7 4226*47£
554 38 24 1 5416 5522 57 a 2627 56zv
555 42 25 3 217 5623 10 9 1028 25?
;556 45 25 4 1013 5225 59 9 5429 15?
3557 49 27 5 1819 4724 5010 33 ony-42
ſ558 55 28 6 2620 4025 21 11- 22 0 53:
,59 56 29 7 5521 3426 212 5 1 45,
Pﬄ 0 50 8 4022 2726 4212 49 2-55;
