{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V25-6 1929-30","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v25-6_1929-30.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V25-6 1929-30","mylang":"de"}
Society
JOURNAL
OF THE
for Psychical Research
VOLS. XXV-XXVI
1929-1930
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.x
- All rights reserved
I
CONTENTS
A Case of " Travelling Clairvoyance " 4
Annual Report of the Council for 1928 9
A Reply to Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo ;
by Dr E. Mattiesen - 27
Annual General Meeting of Members 43
Extraordinary General Meeting of Members 45
Accounts of Receipts and Expenditure for 1928 - - - - - 46
A Request to our Readers for Information 49
" Life Beyond Death with Evidence "
; by A. W. Trethewy - - 50
Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society ----- 63
An Apparently Premonitory Apparition 66
Information received at a Sitting concerning Matters unknown to the
^ Sitter - 81
) The Scripts of Cleophas ;
by the Rev. Canon H. Bickersteth Ottley, M.A. 89
j An Alleged Premonition of Death 102
^ A Veridical Dream ---------- 104
A Series of Premonitory Visions - - - - - - - 120
Two Hallucinatory Bilocations of the Self - - - - - - 126
Dowsing in Bombay ;
by Theodore Besterman - - - - - 129
Loan of the Society's Seance Room 141
Institut Metapsychique International - - - - - - - 1 42
Telepathy at a Distance - - - - - - - - - 143
The Supply of Books and Information - - - - - - 156
Paintings of Hypnagogic Visions - - - - - - - 157
A Case of Telepathy 157
Non-Veridical Cross-Correspondences ;
by H. F. Saltmarsh - - 159
The Change in the Law of New York relating to Spiritualism ;
by
Blewett Lee "-
173
An Auditory Premonition --------- 1
Note concerning the Hacking Case ; by J. Arthur HUl and Mrs E. M.
Sidgwick 4
Notes on the Psychology of Nonsense Names ;
by H. F. Saltmarsh - 5
iv ;, ; ; ,, ',
:Contenis :\ • ",;
Annual Report (and Accounts) of the Council for the Year 1929 - 19
Another Case of Telepathy . .-; ; , r , -, - - - 25
A Sitting with Mme Kahl ;
by I. C. Groridahl - - - - 43
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Resignation 45
Annual General Meeting of Members 60
The Misplaced Tombstone Case ;
by E. Brackenbury - - - 64
Note on the Mediumship of Mrs Mason ; by S. R. W. Wilson - - 74
A Submerged Memory revived in a Dream ;
by Sir Lawrence J. Jones - 76
A Deferred Impression during a Trance Sitting 90
The Case of a Damaged Gravestone ....... 93
A Phantasm of the Dead conveying Information unknown to the Per-
cipient ;
by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo - - . - 95
Some Investigations into Poltergeists ; by Dr V. J. Woolley - - 104
The Recent Congress at Athens ; by W. H. Salter . - - - 107
In Defence of D. D. Home ;
by Hereward Carrington - - - 109
Case of a Presentiment acted on 117
Apparition of a Friend at the Moment of her Death - - - - 133
Notes on a Sitting with Mrs Brittain ;
by Ernest S. Thomas - - 135
The Aetiology of a " Psychical " Legend ; by Dr Walter Franklin Prince 148
National Laboratory of Psychical Research .... - 157
New Members . . . . 1,26,42,62,101,119,140,156,172,
17, 41, 57, 89, 103, 147
Meetmgs of the Council - - - 1,26,42,62,101,119,140,156,172,
17, 41, 57, 89, 103, 116
Meetings of the Society . . - . 2, 26, 43, 45, 63, 64, 102, 172,
18, 60, 103, 116
Obituaries 64, 146,
41, 59, 116
Correspondence ----- 17,59,73,136,145,162,175,
8, 68, 76, 98, 112, 119, 137, 159
Reviews 15, 32, 69, 92, 147, 164,
9, 32, 52, 71, 81, 99, 122, 141
Notes on Periodicals - - 18, 34, 76, 97, 108, 130, 148, 165, 180,
15, 38, 54, 82, 100, 126, 144, 162
Notices 24, 25, 41, 61, 100, 119, 120, 139, 140, 141. 142, 154, 155, 171, 173,
19, 41, 73, 90, 102, 103, 114, 115, 116, 131, 132, 133
Errata 60, 100, 118, 170,
146, 162
No. 451.—Vol. XXV. Janttaey, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Elected December 5tli, 1928.
Fonnereau, N. C, 53 CaJogan Street, London, S.W. 3.
Gordon-Tucker, Lt. -Colonel E. F., 6 Staverton Road, Oxford.
Hill, Miss Marianne, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Lester, Mrs., AVhaleboue House, High Road, Chadwell Heath.
Palmer, John W. 6., 13 New Road, Brighton.
Stephen, Dr Karin, 50 Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Elected December llth, 1928.
Dickson, Mrs., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
Hinks, Fred L., 1216 6th Avenue Soutli, Fort Dodge, Iowa, U.S.A.
Mulroney, John E., -215 South 7th Street, Fort Dodge, Iowa, U.vS.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 252nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, December 5th, 1928, at
2.30 p.m. ; Mr. W. R. Bousfield in the chair. There were
also present : IMr. E. N. Bennett, ]\Ir. Theodore Besterman,
Miss Ina Jephson, Dame Edith Lyttelton, Dr. T. W. Mitchell,
Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Mr. S. G. Soal, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The IMinutes of the last Meeting of the Coimcil were read
and signed as correct.
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jandaky, 1929
Six new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Report of the Coimcil for the year 1928 was considered
and approved as amended.
Miss Ina Jephson was appointed a member of the House
and Finance Committee.
The Monthly Accounts for October and November, 1928,
were presented and taken as read.
It was decided to hold the Annual General Meeting on
Thursday, January 31st, 1929.
The 253rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Tuesday, December 11th, 1928, at
5.30 p.m., The President in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. Theodore Besterman, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Miss
Ina Jephson, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also. Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
CONVERSAZIONE.
A Conversazione was held for Members and Associates in the
house of the Society on Wednesday, December 5th, 1928, from
4 until 6 p.m. Tea was served from 4 until 4.45 p.m. After
tea Dr. WooUey gave an account of some recent sittings he
had attended in Baron v. Schrenck-Notzing's laboratory.
Dr. Woolley began by explaining that, in response to a
suggestion made by Miss May Walker, Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing had very kindly allowed four representatives of the
Society, Mrs. Brackenbury, Miss WaUier, Professor Dodds and
himself, to be present at the sittings held in his laboratory
during last September. They had hoped to take part in his
investigation of the medium Oskar S., but, as reported in the
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie for October, this medium was
exposed as fraudulent by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing on
Januaet, 1929 Conversazione S
September 1st, and these hopes were therefore disappointed.
A number of sittings were held with the two Schneider brothers,
Willi and Rudi, under a system of control devised by Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing, which has for its object the replacement
as far as possible of the human element by certain electrical
devices. The present method has been in use since last June,
and consists in the wearing by the medium and by the one
controller of metal wire mittens, which close two independent
electric circuits when the controller holds the medium's hands.
Similarly made socks cover the medium's feet and close two
other circuits when placed in contact with two metal plates
on the floor. Each circuit when closed lights up a numbered
lamp placed above the " cabinet." In addition to this the
floor of the cabinet is wholly covered by a board, which when
trodden on lights up a fifth lamp by the side of the others.
The last precaution has only recently been introduced to
answer the suggestion that phenomena might be due to the
presence of a confederate concealed in the cabinet.
It was pointed out that this apparatus proves to all the
sitters that each of the medium's mittens is in contact with
one of the controller's mittens, and that the fact that they
are mittens and not gloves enables the controller to feel the
medium's hands as well. Further, the medium's mittens are
sewn to his coat sleeves so that he cannot take them ofl^.
The arrangement excludes effectively the fraudulent use of
the meditu2i"s hands. It does not, and probably no mechanical
control coidd, exclude deliberate fraud by the controller, a
theoretical possibility of which there was no question in these
sittings.
Dr. WooUey gave a short description of some of the pheno-
mena seen in the Willi sittings, the most interesting being
what appeared to be bulging-out movements of the curtain
forming the front of the cabinet behind him, and concluded
by expressing the thanks of the Society to Miss Walker for
having arranged for the sittings, and especially to Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing for his great kindness in allowing the Society's
representatives to take part in them.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jandaey, 1929
CASE.
L. 1287. A Case of " Travelling Clairvoyance.
"
We print below a case of the type usually known as " travel-
ling clairvoyance." Other examples of the same kind of
experience will be found in Myers's Human Personality, vol. i.
pp. 553-59, and Mrs. Sidgwick's paper " On the Evidence for
Clairvoyance," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 7, pp. 30-99. The case has
come to us through Lord Charles Hope, a Member of this
Society, who is personally acquainted with the percipient,
Monsieur David, a Frenchman living in London. Monsieur
David's original account of his three experiences was enclosed
with a letter from Lord Charles Hope to Mrs. Sidgwick on
June 23rd, 1928. At that time Monsieur David had not
had an opportunity of visiting the places described in his two
earlier experiences and verifying the descriptions himself.
This he was able to do in September last, and we print his
original statements and the later verification. Of his third
experience, on February 4th, 1928, no verification has so far
been obtainable, but it seems best to put the experience on
record with the others.
I.
31s^ January, 1928.
In the course of a very enjoyable evening spent yesterday
30th January in tlie company of Mr. Noel Jaquin, Dr. Braun,
and two other friends, we discussed among other things certain
phenomena relative to palmistry and psychics, and when I came
home at about 12.30 p.m. I went to bed immediately, but not
finding sleep at once I thought over the various topics we had
discussed.
On the only previous occasion when I had met Mr. Noel Jaquin
prior to last evening, he had promised to pay me a " mind
visit " and to send me a description of the room in which we
generally foregather, but he had either forgotten his promise or
had not found the time to fulfil it, and the matter was not
mentioned at all during the evening. It came back to my mind
at that moment, however, and I wondered whether I could not
January, 1929 Case
perhaps pay Jaquin the " mind visit " he had failed to pay me.
I was then wide awake, and noticed my wife breathing asleep
by my side—also that a faint ray of light was creeping into
the room between the curtains—but I kept my eyes closed and
almost immediately I saw a very distinct picture as follows :
A row of shops on the left side of a street, these shops showing
the very distinct peculiarity that they were projecting several
yards beyond the frontage of the house above, so that the first
portion of the shops at least was covered by a flat roof, to
which access could be gained by the first floor windows, and at
the side of one of the shops a door leading, presumably through
a passage, to the flats above. The street was dimly lighted.
There was no traffic about and I was particularly puzzled by the
fact that I could see nothing whatever on the right side of
the street, which was a perfect blank. I tried repeatedly to
see the right side of the street but failed, while I kept on
registering the vivid picture of the door in the row of shops on
the left side of the street. I felt that I was in front of Jaquin's
flat but experienced difiiculty in seeing beyond the door, and
remembering certain phenomena which accompanied a " mind call
"
from Jaquin on one of his friends and which might possibly if
they repeated themselves with me frighten my wife, I did my
best to go to sleep and very soon lost consciousness.
I must particularly place on record, that while I know, that
Mr. Jaquin lives in a flat at Palmers Green, I have never visited
him, have never had any account of the neighbourhood in which
he resides, and that I do not know his address and have never
been in Palmers Green ; also that Palmers Green is 18 miles
away from Twickenham. In fact I absolutely ignore whether
Mr. Jaquin's flat is in a business or in a residential neighbourhood.
To-day, at lunch, I have told my friend Mr. J. W. Miller of this
vision, and I now consign the precise details to this sheet.
A copy of the above document was sent by me to Mr. Noel
Jaquin whose exact address I found in the telephone directory, and
he informed me that my description of the exterior of his flat,
the projection of the shops on the left side of the street, and the
other side being a perfect blank (big wall), [is correct in every
detail.
a2
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1929
October Qth, 1928.
In order to verify the accuracy of my vision, I have been
myself to 37b Green Lanes, No. 13, the address of Mr. Jaquin,
and found that the appearance of the building in which Mr.
Jaquin occupies a flat, corresponds exactly to my description, also
that exactly opposite the door which gives access to his flat,
stands a wall with a garden behind it.
rS^' - II.
2nd Feburary, 1928.
Last night (1st February), I went to bed at 12 p.m. and not
finding sleep at once, wondered perhaps if I could renew my
experiment of " mind wandering " and decided to pay Dr. Braun
a " mind call."
I closed my eyes, and after a very short time found myself
in front of a garden protected by railings. I went down a gravel
path between what seemed to be shrubberies and saw the entrance
to "a house." A flight of stone steps led to a porch and to a
door painted in a rather " vivid red " or crimson colour. The
porch seemed to be dimly lighted.
I further noticed the peculiar feature that the porch was at
the " extreme left " of the house and as this seemed rather
strange to me—I opened my eyes and made various observations
to convince myself that I was not asleep and just then heard the
clock strike one (probably 12.30). When I closed my eyes again
I, at once, saw distinctly the same porch and the door which
I could recognise owing to its special colour, and after some
difficulty I entered the hall.
I noticed some light coming from nowhere and thought it
probably came from some opening in the wall on the left of
the hall—overlooking a garden or conservatory, and at the further
end of the hall a staircase—presumably leading to the floors above,
and—an important detail—winding from left to right—also a
dark recess between the staircase and the wall on the right of
the hall—probably leading to a kitchen or a garden.
On the right, two doors leading into the drawing room at the
back and the dining room in the front an opening between the
dining room and drawing room, and a double window or door
leading from the drawing room into the garden at the back.
January, 1929 Case 7
I could only dimly see the furnishing of the rooms, not sufficiently
to describe them in detail.
I now want to place on record that, on the night of the 30th
January, Dr. Braun came with me from London by car and
alighted somewhere in Castlenau opposite what seemed to be a
garden, but I could not see any house behind, and do not know
Dr. Braun's address—nor whether he lives in the main road or
in a side street—my only impression being that his house was
somewhere near Barnes vStation.
Qth October, 1928.
I have visited Dr. Braun's house ^ in order to check the
accuracy, or otherwise, of my vision, and found that the approach
to the house, the porch, with the stone steps at the end of
a gravel path between shrubberies, is exactly as I saw them—the
porch being at the extreme left of the house, but the door is
white. The door of the adjacent house, however, which is only
a couple of feet to the left, is of the vivid red colour I saw.
The staircase I saw is there also, ascending from left to right
—
it is not, however, in the hall proper, but somewhat to the
right in a passage behind the front room. Therefore, I must
have seen the staircase which I described through the back
wall of the front room, exactly as if the hall proper and the
front room had formed one big room only.
Further, my vision of the interior and the furnishing of the
room which was rather vague, does not tally, and I should imagine
that being awake, my conscious self was responsible for my
inaccurate description. . A. David. .
This report has been submitted to Dr. Braun, and is certi-
fied by him as being correct in such particulars as fall within
his knowledge.
III.
bth February 1928.
'
I went to bed at 12.30 and not finding sleep at once thought
over my two previous strange experiences of " mind wandering
"
^ Appended to the original record of this experience was a note by Monsieur
David to the effect that, having looked up Dr. Braun's address in the
Directory, he inspected the outside of Dr. Braun's house, -nhich he had
"some difficulty in finding" on February 3rd, 1928, and observed the
presence of the red door. He also notes that he " later ascertained from
Dr. Braun that he was not at home on the night of the 2nd of February."
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1929
of the 30th of January and 1st of February, wondering whether
I could extend my range of vision.
I thought of paying a mind visit to a friend near Sevenoaks
or to some of my friends in Paris and while I was still undecided
I saw a vivid picture as follows :
A cafe or bar with the usual " terrace " (French term for the
seating accommodation outside the cafe) covered up by sun
blinds—the cafe being placed on my left in a street which was
in a slanting position.
There was quite a stir inside, and I sensed people moving about
although I could not actually see any one. A counter (serving
counter) was on the right of the entrance which was itself at the
extreme right of the cafe and I thought I could distinguish a coffee
machine on the counter but this might have been imagination.
However the striking feature of my vision was that the walls
behind the counter and facing the door were covered with mirrors
and that on the mirrors facing the entrance there were 3 large
posters—the last one to the left being of a vivid green colour.
I also saw the name vividly, the name of the proprietor in block
letters on the sun blind but did not make a note of it at the
time and could not remember it the next day—something like
Chenel or Chanel or Bedel.
I then heard the clock strike 1 (probably one o'clock) and
was perfectly awake at the time.
I have been unable to check up my vision—owing to the
distance and the doubt in which I am as regards the exact
locality I have visited—but I know that that little cafe exists
such as I have described, with a green poster stuck on the mirror
facing the door but where is it—certainly in France but is it
Paris—Senlis—Cannes or any other place where the friends I was
thinking of at the time might have been ? A. David.
With Monsieur David's original records was enclosed the
following statement, dated May 5th, 1928 :
Eed Hazel, Cole Park Road,
Twickenham.
While enclosing herewith a detailed account of 3 curious cases
of " mind wandering " which I experienced myself on the 30th
of January, 1st of February and 4th of February ^ 1928, I think
1 The experiences took place in the early morning of Jan. 31, Feb. 2 and Feb. 5,
1928. Ed.
January, 1929 Case 9
it necessary to add a few comments which might better allow
to establish the relative value of these observations as compared
with others of a similar nature.
I would say that I am a business man of a rather materialistic
disposition, who on principle—and while not denying the possibility
of strange happenings—will not accept as a fact any phenomenon
which has not been duly probed and verified by people blessed
with a critical mind.
I would further say that I have not made any deep study of
the problems of the mind, telepathy or psychics, and that I only
became at all interested in these subjects about 12 months ago.
It seems to me therefore extraordinary that I should have obtained
the 3 observations I have recorded
—
viz. without any preparation
or training whatsoever and without any real exertion on my
part.
I must finally place on record that since my last observation
of the 4th of February, I have on several occasions tried very
strenuously to repeat my experiences of " mind wandering " but
unfortunately without being able to secure any result whatever,
so much so that were it not for the detailed accounts I wrote
immediately after every one of my 3 observations, I would really
doubt whether they were not merely the product of my
imagination.
A. David.
ANMIAL EEPOET OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1928.
The Society has been able in the past year to carry out a
large amount of useful research.
Dealing first with mental phenomena we can record the com-
pletion of ]\Iiss Jephson"s experiments in clairvoyance mentioned
m our last Report. Clairvoyance is a subject which has been
insufficiently explored, and these experiments, on which ]\Iiss
Jephson read a paper in July, published in Part 109 of Pro-
ceedings, are of great importance, not only in providing further
much needed evidence for the existence of clairvoyance as a
supernormal faculty, but in throwing light on the experimental
conditions which help or hinder the occurrence of clairvoyance,
and possibly of telepathy also.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1929
The experiments in telepathy, which began with the broad-
casting experiment mentioned in last year's report, have been
continued under the direction of Mr. Soal. With the kind
assistance of the British Broadcasting Corporation an invitation
to co-operate in further experiments was broadcast by Professor
Juhan Huxley in September last, as a result of which upwards
of 600 percipients are now attempting one night a week to
obtain impressions from a group acting under Mr. Soal's
direction, and are forwarding a record of their impressions to
the Society for analysis. It is intended to continue the
experiments until Easter 1929. Results of interest have already
been obtained, and the experiment when completed will, it is
hoped, help to elucidate some matters relating to telepathy at
a distance.
Mr. Besterman has conducted experiments with blind children
and adults into alleged supernormal faculties. It has often been
suggested that the deprivation of normal faculties, such as
sight, may have a bearing on the exercise of supernormal
faculties. The experiments proved of sufficient interest to
justify preparations for further experiments with blind persons.
For this purpose an invitation to co-operate has been inserted
in the Braille journal Progress.
In connexion with the investigation of Mrs. Warren Elliott
and other mediums, Mr. Saltmarsh, who has kindly been
analysing the records for the Society, obtained the assistance
of various Members in carrying out " control " experiments
devised to find how far the " veridical " results obtained in
trance communications are explicable by chance-coincidence.
The Council wish once again to thank Mr. Saltmarsh for the
time and ingenuity he has expended on this investigation,^
which is now completed ; his Report has been received and
we hope to be able to present it to the Society very shortly.
During the year a number of investigations into spontaneous.
' phenomena have been carried out on behalf of the Council by
officers of the Society. Some of these were summarised in the
Journal for June last, and since that time further cases of
alleged spontaneous phenomena, including phenomena of " pol-
tergeist " type and an apparition, have been investigated at
Hereford, at Ross, and Llanhilleth in S. Wales. In the last
January, 1929 Annual Report of the Council for 19£8 11
case the boy, around whom the disturbances centred, claimed
to have developed powers of physical mediumship, and three
sittings were held with him in the Society's Seance Room, but
with no definite results.
Visits have also been made to various physical mediums in
London, and Herr Kraus, concerning whom reports have
appeared in several continental publications, gave to a small
circle of members in our seance room a demonstration of the
methods of deception which he said he had employed in
Austria and Germany. An account of this sitting was printed
in the December Journal.
On the suggestion of Miss May Walker, Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing was so good as to invite the attendance with her at a
series of sittings in his laboratory at Munich of representatives
of the Society, and Dr. Woolley, Mrs. Brackenbury, and Pro-
fessor Dodds were able to be present at a number of sittings
with Willi and Rudi Schneider. An account of the results of
these sittings was given at a Meeting of the Society by Dr.
Woolley on 5th December.
The Council wish to take this opportunity of expressing to
Miss May Walker their warm appreciation of her kindness in
arranging this meeting, and to Baron von Schrenck-Notzing for
his hospitality and for the trouble which he took to make the
visit successful.
The Hon. Librarian has during the autumn made an extended
tour on the Continent, in the course of which he has visited
several of the most prominent Continental psychical researchers
and has had interesting sittings with various mediums, of
which an accoimt will be given later.
Sittings have also been arranged by the Society, either at
the Rooms or elsewhere, with a number of clairvoyant or
trance mediums. The results so obtained are principally of
importance in so far as they provide material which can be
compared with that yielded by the long series of sittings with •
Mrs. Warren Elliott.
The Council wish again to emphasize their desire to encourage
the investigation of the physical phenomena of mediumship,
whether spontaneous or experimental, and would urge any
members who may come across instances of any such pheno-
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, I92'j
mena, however slight and doubtful, to bring them to the
notice of the Society's officers. Any communications so received
are, of course, treated as confidential.
The Coimcil wish to thank all those Members and Associates
of the Society who have during the year assisted them in
investigating occurrences taking place in various parts of the
coimtry, particularly the Rev. A. T. Fryer and the Rev. W. S.
Irving ; also Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Mackenzie, at whose house Mr.
Soal's experiments are held every week, and Major Rampling-Rose.
The reorganisation of the Library has now been completed.
With the assistance of the grant from the Carnegie United
Kingdom Trust (mentioned in last year's Report) a large
number of important books has been purchased. A Catalogue,
and the first annual Supplement, have been pubhshed, and the
Hon. Librarian is now working on a Subject Index. Catalogues
with press marks indicating the position of books on the shelves
are now for the first time available for persons consulting the
Library ; in this work great assistance has been rendered by
one of our members, Mr. Vinen, who has devoted a very great
deal of time and patience to it, and the Council wish to
express their hearty thanks to him. It may be claimed that
the Library has never in the Society's history approached its
present state of utility and efficiency. During the last year
the increase in the number of books borrowed has been con-
siderable.
The total cost of reorganisation of the Library (for which
the money received from the Carnegie Trustees is not available)
amoimts to £814 9s. 6d. The appeal for donations towards the
balance of £400 mentioned in the last Rej^ort has resulted up
to the present time in the receipt of £162 7s. lid. The list is
still open and the Council hope that a substantial part of the
balance will be met by further donations.
During the year the Council appointed a Committee consist-
, ing of Mr. Bousfield, K.C., Mrs. Sidgwick, Mr. Scott and Mr.
Lambert, to whom Mr. Piddington was subsequently added, to
consider what, if any, alterations were desirable in the Society's
Articles of Association, which have never been systematically
considered since the Society was incorporated in 1895. The
report of the Committee has been accepted by the Council.
Januahy, 1929 Annual Report of the Council for 1928 13
It is intended to submit the proposed alterations to the
necessary Statutory Meetings at an early date.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., was elected President of the
Society last January, and he gave his Presidential Address in
March. The address is published in Proc, Part 106.
The sudden death of Mr. Baggally in March deprived the
Council and the Society of an old member who had taken a
very active and valuable part in the Society's work.
Two former presidents. Dr. L. P. Jacks and Professor Gilbert
Murray, have felt obliged to resign their places on the Council
owing to the pressure of other engagements which prevented
them from attending meetings of the Council. In neither
case does this resignation imply any loss of interest in the
Society's work, and both remain Vice-presidents of the Society.
To fill the three vacancies thus caused among their elected
members, the Council have appointed Mr. Lambert, Professor Dodds
and Mr. Bousfield, who have hitherto been co-opted members.
The Council have also co-opted to places on the Council the
Hon. Librarian (Mr. Besterman), the Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton,
D.B.E., Miss Jephson, and Mr. S. G. Soal, all of whom have
done important work for the Society.
Once again the pressure of work has compelled the Council
to obtain the assistance of extra staff. Mrs. Brackenbury has
been of great help to the Hon. Research Officer in his depart-
ment ; in particular, she has visited many mediums, and
investigated on the spot several alleged occurrences of spon-
taneous phenomena. Miss Carruthers has undertaken the
laborious routine work required for Mr. Soal's telepathy experi-
ments. It has also been necessary from time to time to em-
ploy additional clerical assistance.
Owing to ill-health Sergeant and Mrs. Ham, who for several
years did good service to the Society as Housekeepers, could
not be kept on in the Society's employment ; their duties
were taken over in July by Mr. and Mrs. ToLhurst.
The Coimcil have to record with regret the death of several
old Members of the Society, among whom were : Mr. A. L.
Baker, Lord Carnock, Professor H. N. Gardiner and Mr. Orville
Peckham, who have been members for nearly forty years,
Mrs. Smithson (who left the Society a legacy of £500), Rev.
]4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1929
Dr. Douglas, Sir Frank Dicksee, Mr. C. B. Ingham, and the
Duke of Newcastle who have been members since the beginning
of the century, also Lady Grey of Fallodon.
One Corresponding Member was elected during the year :
Count Carl v. Klinckowstroem. Sixty new Members were
elected, and five Associates became Members. The Society has
lost by death nine Members and twelve Associates ;
by
resignation, thirty-six Members and thirteen Associates ; and
through failure to pay their subscriptions, nine Members and
three Associates. The membership of the Society now stands
at 1,061, of whom 624 are Members, and 437 are
Associates.
Five Parts of Proceedings were published during the year
;
Part 105 in April, Part 106 in May, Part 107 in July, Part 108
in October, and Part 109 in December.
The total amount realised during the past year by the sales
of Proceedings is £116. The sales to the general public
amormted to £88 9s. 3d. in Great Britain ; £8 9s. in America ;
and £30 2s. 2d. in the ofhce, to members of the Society at
half-price.
The following meetings have been held during the year
:
March 14th. Presidential Address. By Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.
April 24th. A Social meeting followed by a Meeting for
Suggestions.
June 6th. " Evocation of the Dead in Madagascar," by Mr.
Theodore Besterman.
June 27th. " Eecent Experiments in Card-Guessing," by Miss
Ina Jephson.
^ July 16th. " L'Accord telepathique," by M. Eene Warcollier.
July 18th. Extraordinary General Meeting called to deal with
Agenda attached to Requisition signed by certain
Members.
October 24th. " Some Automatic Scripts purporting to be
inspired by a Victorian Poet and Novelist," by Mr.
W. H. Salter and Mr. S. G. Soal.
December 5th. A Conversazione.
1 General Meeting.
This Report was sent to press before the conclusion of the Financial Year and
does not therefore contain the Financial Statement which will be printed separately.
jAXDABT, 1929 Revieiv 15
REVIEW.
De. Winther's Experiments in Telekinesis.
Psychical Research for January-May 1928 contains a detailed
paper by Professor Winther of Copenhagen dealing with the
phenomena exhibited by Mrs. Easmussen. These include the
ordinary occurrences such as raps, automatic writing, and trance
speech, but the main interest centres on the experiments dealing
with possible telekinesis. Professor Winther draws attention to
certain unusual circumstances : phenomena occur at every sitting,
there are no true " blank times :
" they occur in really good
light ; dominance has been obtained over the controls, so that
the details are in the hands of the experimenters. After obtaining
partial levitations of a table, oscillations of balances were observed ;
in particular oscillation of one balance only of a pair. This led
Prof. Winther to construct a special piece of pendulum apparatus
;
he states, of course . . . we worked with two pendulums," but
it is unlucky that he was so impressed by the motion of the
balances. The two pendulums were suspended from a common
support, and each was " conical," that is to say, the bobs could
move in any plane or elliptical path. To analyse the motions of
such a pair is very difficult : even if a trace of the motion is
secured (which Prof. Winther obtained) we are confronted with
the extreme difficulties involved in interpreting such a trace, and
there is always the possibility of coupling and interchange of
energy via the common support. It is stated that such coupHng
was practically non-existent, but the test of this as described is
scarcely convincing. ^^Tiy such a gratuitous complication was
adopted is not clear ; a simple pendulum suspended bifilarly so as
to swing in one plane would have given a perfectly clear trace
on the travelling band used which would have been easy of
interpretation : but one must take things as they are.
The frame on which the pendulums hung was glass-sided, and
in the final form the bobs contained an electric lamp and a lens
by which the paths were automatically recorded on a strip of
sensitised paper moved horizontally below the bobs at a moderately
constant speed. This apparatus was set up in two places. First
it was secured to a concrete pillar in a cellar, and very perfect
precautions were taken to prevent tremors being communicated
38S
16 /ournal of Society for Psychical Research Januaky, 1929
to it. Two trials, wiere made with tla? "setting without any
success : the control said that the " pillar was too damp." The
second place was a room in Prof. Winther's house, where the
apparatus was fixed to a stout table secured to the floor
:
phenomena started at once. A long description of the first
arrangement is given, which might well have been omitted, since it
proved useless. It is to be noted that when it was practically
impossible for external forces to act on the apparatus, all was
still. Motions being observed with the second arrangement, traces
of them were taken. An approximate analysis is developed by
which the true amplitude of a plane swing not taking place in
a plane perpendicular to that of the moving band can be cal-
culated, also for finding the amount of any change of azimuth
of that plane : the damping of the pendulums with free motion
was also measured. From these data Prof. Winther calculates
the magnitude and approximate direction of the force which
would account for the observed changes of amplitude and
azimuthal plane as shown on the photographic records. But these
records themselves show that the paths were often conical, so
that the analysis is not applicable. Further, the traces appear
to be on too small a scale to make such deductions warrantable,
especially in view of the possibility of coupling.
Prof. Winther found that the motion was practically independent
of the bob-material : he gives many instances in which amplitude
and phase changes apparently occurred at command, though
many of these are accompanied by coupling as is actually visible
on several of his curves. He notes that a glass of water put
on the table showed no sign of tremors which might well be
true for slowish impulses. On the whole, the numerical deductions
must be pronounced " non proven." But there remains a resi-
duum of occurrences of some interest. The amplitudes sometimes
became large enough for the bobs to hit the glass sides, which
was a considerable excursion, and it is stated that one pendulum
hit another which remained at rest : these and a few other inter-
esting points are still obscure.
A set of observations is given of the respiration rate of the
subject, and the remarkable point is made that this rate often
approximately coincided with the pendulum rates, though Prof.
Winther declares that experiment showed it was very difl&cult to
produce motion of the pendulums by purposeful action on the floor.
Januaet, 1929 Review 17
Prof. Winther would gain one's gratitude if he were content to
repeat the experiments with a " one degree of freedom " pen-
dulum. Should he get positive results with this, they will merit
the most careful consideration.
C.G.L.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning D. D. Home.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—The writer of the letter signed P.-P.-S. in the November
issue of our Journal, in a footnote, asserts that it is " very prob-
able " that D. D. Home frauded on several occasions, without
giving a single reference whereby a reader might test the validity
of this statement ; neither does he refer to the fact that Sir Wm.
Crookes, who knew him intimately, wrote : "I was on my guard
even in D. D. Home's case, although I am bound to say that
with him I never detected any trickery or deceit whatever, nor
heard any first-hand evidence of such from other persons." (Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. VI. p. 99).
This conclusion has been endorsed by Prof. Richet, who wrote :
" Sometimes, indeed, as in the case of Dunglas Home, it has had
to be acknowledged that the accusation of fraud was unjustified
"
(Should Spiritism he seriously studied, p. 42).
To impugn any man's honour on the basis of a " probability
"
in the face of such positive testimony from impartial witnesses is
not cricket."
Moreover in 1912 Count Solovovo, in our Journal, effectually
disposed of ^the evidence of fraud in a particular instance
when Home was accused of having used a gloved foot,
showing that the evidence was quite insufiicient to sustain the
charge (Vol. XV. pp. 274-284).
If a man's character is impugned whilst he is still on earth he
has means of redress in the law courts, but the " Silent Ones
"
have no remedy, except that innate sense of justice which should
make us all scrupulously careful not to smirch another man's good
name, without solid proof to justify our so doing.
H. A. Dallas.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli Janhart, 1929
Reply to Miss Dallas
:
I can assure Miss Dallas that she is utterly mistaken, It is not
in my habit to " smirch " other people's good names whatever
their convictions or professions. On the other hand, I do not see
why I cannot say in 1928 that I believe a man to have been
detected in fraud merely because that man died in 1886.
If Miss Dallas consults No. 1 of the French periodical Revue
de Paris for 1912 she will find there letters by a Dr. Barthez,
who was physician to Napoleon III. ; one of these letters deals
with the detection. This is contemporary evidence, though not,
it is true, first-hand evidence. But there is every reason to
believe that Dr. Barthez was well acquainted with an incident
which had happened in the Emperor's entourage. The date is 1854
{at Biarritz).
Again in M. Paul Heuze's Oil en est la Metapsychique ? (Paris,
Gauthier Villars et Cie. editeurs, 1926) the writer says he repeatedly
heard the same story from the late Prince Koland Bonaparte,
who had it on the authority of the Empress Eugenie.
Again in La Societe du Second Empire, 1852-1858, by Comte
Eleury and M. Sonolet the same narrative is found on pp. 149 sqq.
It is true that when some seventeen years ago I applied to the
author or authors for further details I found that they could not
substantiate their statements. The fact that these statements were
made in a serious book shows nevertheless that the legend of
D. D. Home's detection was already so to say in the air. It
has since materialised in the Barthez letter.
I was therefore perfectly justified in saying that D. D Home's
exposure in at least one instance {not " several," as Miss D.
makes me say) seemed to me " very probable."
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Etudes, No. 17, 1928 (Paris). Professor Victor Poucel prints
a paper entitled " A Telepathic Exploration," in which he de-
scribes some ex2:)eriments made with two of his colleagues after
reading an account of Mr. Rene Warcollier's and comments on
them. The experiments narrated are interesting ; to me personally
they are not absolutely convincing, but I willingly admit that
Januahv, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 19
opinions on this point may legitimately diiier. The most interest-
ing point about M. Poucel's article is of course the fact of its
being published in a strictly Roman Catholic periodical edited by
Jesuits. It should be noted, however, that the author energeti-
cally repudiates all tendencies to connect telepathy and clair-
voyance with the supernormal aspects of Religion. On the other
hand, he thinks that telepathy may play an important part in
human destiny, and even calls it the " terrestrial agent " of God.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1928. A lecture by
Professor R. Santoliquido on " Biology and Metapsychics " de-
livered in March 1928 at Geneva before the " International and
Permanent Centre of Lectures and Congresses on Psychical
Research " is reproduced verbatim.
Professor Ch. Richet prints a note in answer to Dr. Osty's
article on Notre sixieme sens, to which note Dr. Osty briefly
replies.
A paper by M. Paul Choisnard entitled " Relations between
Astrology and Metapsychics " is a summary of a forthcoming
book by the same writer called Astrologie et Metapsychique. Let
us await the book itself.
Dr. Osty prints a characteristic note on M. Marjan Gruzewski
(see S.P.R. Journal for July). It now appears that five years
before his first trance " drawing this gentleman " s'adonnait
active)7ient a la pratique du dessin, en pleine conscience, avec heau-
coup de dispositions "
(p. 417). The scepticism manifested by
us appears therefore to have been more than justified.
Professor Charles Richet prints a charming fable entitled The
Carp and the Swallow," the idea of which is the same as that
underlying Sir Oliver Lodge's ingenious apologue in Why I believe
in personal Immortality : a beautiful and very profound idea
admirably—and amusingly—expressed
.
- In the Chronique (by M. Maurice Maire) the death of J. Guzik
is aimounced and his " powerful manifestations " are mentioned,
J. G. being called a " remarkable " medium for " materialisations."
I beg to refer the reader in this connection to my " Note " in
the November Journal.
Two interesting extracts are quoted from two letters written
respectively in April and June 1913 by Sister Andre de Marie
Immaculee (Helene Touve), a Roman Catholic missionary in
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1929
India, briefly describing some mysterious stone-throwings at
Kumbakonam. In the first letter the stones are said to have
been too big to have been " lancees." The manifestations are
stated in the second letter to have ceased immediately after a
relic containing a fragment of the True Cross had been placed
on the edge of the roof of a house which was being built at the
bishop's wish. In the first letter the stone-throwings are also
said to have ceased after prayers had been said by one of the
Fathers. The writer has no doubt of the diabolical origin of the
phenomena. The case is certainly very interesting, though far
too briefly described.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, November 1928. Dr. Paul Siinner
prints the first part of a paper on the supposed psychometric
gift of Frau Lotte Plaat (see Journal S.P.R.—Notes on Periodicals
—for June 1928). This part contains almost exclusively general
considerations.
Dr. Marcinowski follows with another instalment of his paper
on Frau Klette's " Intuitive Character Diagnoses." It is still un-
finished.
Dr. Zenker relates very briefly some incidents connected with
a new Leipzig clairvoyante whose name is not given.
Herr Alois Konecny of Prague narrates some physical experi-
ences of his wife's which may have been curious, occurring in
November 1915 on one day.
Prof. Szanto of Bratislava-Pressburg has a paper on psychometry
under the title of " Universal Association as ErJclcirungsjorinzip in
Parapsychology."
The reminiscences on Zollner of a certain J. A. Repsold, con-
structor of astronomical instruments (died 1919), are printed.
Interesting and valuable as they are, they do not afford us, I
think, any new data of importance re the Slade seances of 1877-78.
Herr Richard Dangel, of Vienna, narrates some tricks of " North-
American Medicine-men " (Indian), abundantly borrowing from
various American works (list given on pp. 680 and 681). The
incidents decisively suggesting supernormal action are very few.
Jan Guzik's death is spoken of in Kleine Mitteilungen. I note
that frauds on his part are admitted (p. 682) and beg to refer
the reader again to my note in the November Journal.
From another note we learn that Baron von Schrenck-Notzing
January, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 21
and other gentlemen of repute, among them a scientist of Prof.
Hans Driesch's eminence, are to be closely connected with Dr.
Schroder's Institute for Metapsychical Research at Lichterfelde-Ost.
This is very satisfactory. They will impress on Dr. Schroder,
it is to be earnestly hoped, the urgent desirability of avoiding
in the future coarse language when dealing with his opponents
;
and will also surmount his repugnance to have the Physical
Phenomena of Spiritism investigated by conjurers, this being
one of his several grievances against the S.P.E. {Zeitschr. fiir
Psych. Forschung, October 1928, p. 295).
Dr. Adolf Schmidt, Secretary of the Berlin Medical Society for
Parapsychical Research, narrates some very curious cases of
phantoms of the dead experienced by a certain Frau Minna T.
In one case the apparition was seen by Frau T.'s daughters.
Extraordinary—indeed most uncanny—experiences of the same
lady's after the death of one of her daughters are also related.
Dr. Schmidt certifies her to be of sound mind (p. 680)—which
might well have been doubted.
Prof. Dennert, of Godesberg, relates two incidents connected
with a clairvoyante Frau N. which suggest—if genuine !
—" clair-
voyance " coupled with direct writing.
Zeitschr ift fur Psychische Forschung, November 1928.
Dr. Schroder prints further particulars about the Lichterfelde-
Ost " Institute for Metapsychical Research," its programme, the
Society for Metapsychical Research connected with it, etc.
Dr. Mattiesen narrates the Alexander's Tomb Cross-correspond-
ence {Proc. S.P.R., XXVII. pp. 56sqq.).
" Man's survival of death " is the title of a paper by Hofrat
Prof. Max Selling. What the writer says as to the idea of im-
mortality having been entertained in some form or other by " all
"
peoples and corresponding therefore to an " infallible " instinct
could open up a very interesting discussion, from which the
present writer must however abstain for more reasons than one.
In Kleine Mitteilungen Dr. Schroder describes first of all a
psychometric experiment with Frau Giinther-Gefiers in July last,
which seems to me unsuccessful.
He then proceeds to relate an experiment in " mango growing
"
which he witnessed in 1926 at Shiraz. Seeing that Shiraz is in
South-West Persia the name of " yoghi " given to the performer
I
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 192!)
does not seem very appropriate, nor is the term of mango growing
quite exact. Tlie account is interesting but by no means con-
vincing. The " phenomenon " was registered on a photographic
plate. Dr. Schroder quotes by the way from an article by our
Corresponding Member Count Klinckowstroem in Psychische Studien
for 1924 (pp. 356 sqq.) a statement by Dr. Hans Henning of
Danzig, according to which " educated Germans " detained in
India during the War were able to prove by " numerous " photo-
graphic trials the subjective character of the mango-trick, rope-
trick and basket-trick. Various details are given (by Dr. Henning)
of the way in which " the Indian " suggests to the audience what
he wants to be seen, but strange to say all these assertions
appear to be altogether unsubstantiated ! Dr. Schroder is therefore
quite right when he challenges Dr. H. H. to produce his evidence,
however unpleasant is Dr. S.'s usual brutal way of dealing with
his opponents.
Monistische Monatshefte (Hamburg), November 1928.
There are short articles on the Physical Phenomena of Spiritism
by various writers, including Count Klinckowstroem, under various
titles. We shall probably have an opportunity of reverting to
some of the points touched upon later on.
P.-P.-S.
Psychic Science, October 1928.
The Editorial Notes open with a reference to the recent prose-
cution of Mrs. Caution and Miss Phillimore (of the L.S.A.), and the
editor then discusses the future of spiritualism, stressing the
importance of " physical phenomena."
The announcement is made that Mr. Hewat McKenzie has asked
to be released from office as Principal of the British College of
Psychic Science, in order to " devote some time to the production
of a volume of experiences." Mrs. McKenzie has consented for
the moment to take his place.
There is an article by Mr. Arthur Goadby on the performances
of " Black Bear the Psychic Pony," who was also discussed by
Mr. Bligh Bond in Psychic Research, January 1928 (see S.P.R.
Journal, May 1928, p. 269). According to a statement on p. 193, the
pony on one occasion named several playing cards held up to him
by Mr. Goadby and unseen by anyone except the horse. This
Jancart, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 23
experiment, if properly carried out, would of course exclude the
use of a code between the horse and his master. But most of
the experiments seem to have been carried out under poor con-
ditions and without system.
Mrs. Helen Lambert reports " the Case of Mr. C. E.", another
case of obsession treated by Dr. Titus Bull, with the help of a
medium, and Mr. Drayton Thomas has an article on " The Modus
Operandi of Trance Communication," as observed in his sittings
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard (see S.P.K. Jour. Dec. 1928, p. 398,
for a review of J\L:. Thomas's recent book on this subject, Life
Beyond Death).
Major Mowbray relates two incidents from his sittings with Mrs.
Mason which appear to show supernormal knowledge, and there
is a note on the fraudulent mediumship of Mrs. Keene, of Brixton.
She was detected in trickery at the College on July 24:th, 1928,
and signed a confession undertaking that she would " not again
act as a medium in Britain."
Psychic Research, October 1928.
The Number opens with a first instalment of "A Subjective
Analysis of Obsession," a personal narrative of psychological
experiences sent by Mr. " A. B." to Dr. Hereward Carrington, who
contributes a short introductory note. Mr. A. B. is himself con-
vinced that his experiences are due to obsession by various known
and recognised spirits, members of his own family. Dr. Carrington
points out that the case according to generally accepted theory
would appear to be one of dissociation of personality, combined
with hallucinations, but he quotes a statement made by William
James in his Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson control to the effect
that " the demon theory (not necessarily a devil theory) will have
its innings again." Mr. A. B.'s account of his experiences is on any
theory interesting, especially his description of the way in which
the voices of his obsessors (which he constantly hears) seem to
blend with various objective sounds, normally heard, and to be
reinforced by them.
There is a further instalment of Mr. Malcolm Bird's report on
" Teleplasmic Thumbprints " (The Margery Case). A report on
" The Chinese Scripts by Margery " by Dr. Neville Whymant, said
to be contained in " the third issue of Psychic Science for 1928,"
is here reviewed. But the publication of Dr. Whymant's report in
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jandaht, 1929
Psychic Scierice seems to have been delayed (it is not included in
the third issue, October 1928) and for the present therefore
comment is deferred.
M. Sudre has " Some Observations upon Hauntings," in which
he concludes that the only hauntings for which there is satis-
factory evidence are those associated with a particular living
human being, i.e. poltergeists, or, to use the term which M. Sudre
himself prefers, cases of " thorybism."
The Number also contains a first instalment of an article by
Mr. Malcolm Bird on " Some Philosophical Aspects of Psychical
Research."
H. DE G. S.
MEETING OF THE SOCIETY.
Preliminary Announcement.
A Private Meeting will be held in the Society's Rooms, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, February 20th, 1929, at 5 p.m.,
when Mr. Theodore Besterman will give an informal account of a four
months' journey of psychical investigation on the Continent.
No. 452,—Vol. XXV. ' •
Febbtjaby, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD EM '
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.G. i,
ON
WEDISIESDAY,
February 20th, 1929, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" An Informal Account of a Four Months' Journey
of Psychical Investigation on the Continent
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr. THEODORE BESTERMAN
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issuedfor this Meetitig. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their natftes at the door.
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1929
PEIVATE MEETING.
Preliminary Announcement.
A Private Meeting will be held, at the Society's Rooms, 31
Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, March 6th,
1929, at 5.30 p.m., when Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh will read a paper
entitled " Report on the Investigation of Some Sittings with
Mrs. Warren Elliott."
NEW MEMBERS.
Besterman, Mrs. Theodore, 63 Boundary Road, Londou, N.W. 8.
Firnberg, Miss L. J., 29 Steeles Road, London, N.W. 3.
Mellor, Philip S., 9 Wallace Street, Bombay, India.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 253rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C, on Wednesday, January 9th, 1929, at 4 p.m.,
The President in the chair. There were also present : Mr.
Theodore Besterman, Mr. G. W. Lambert, The Hon. Mrs.
Alfred Lytfcelton, D.B.E., Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. W. H. Salter, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also. Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and.
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 99th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C, on Wednesday,
January 9th, 1929, at 5 p.m.. The President in the chair.
Mrs. W. H. Salter read a paper, entitled " Some Incidents
occurring at Sittings with Mrs. Leonard which may throw light
on the modus operandi,'' which will, it is hoped, be published
later in Proceedings. It was followed by an interesting discussion.
Febecaet, 1929 Reply to Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo 27
A REPLY TO COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
By Dr. E. Mattieseist.
In the November issue (1928) of this Journal Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo has brought forward some criticisms against a
series of articles which the present writer had published in the
Zeitschrift fur psychische ForscJiung between March 1927 and June
1928. In those articles I have been trying to introduce a new
hue of argument in favour of the participation, in the drama of
trance-communication, of real and independent entities outside the
medium's " subconsciousness," by exhibiting, from the records of
trance-sittings collected by the S.P.R., instances of realistic faith-
fulness in sustaining roles ; of the lifelike distribution of knowledge
among trance-personalities ; of the purposeful and aggressive
insistence of would-be communicators ; of personal reactions
between the various actors on the trance-stage ; of their critical
deportment towards each other ; of discrepancies of thought
between them, including cases of misunderstanding and " mis-
hearing " ; of lifelike dramatic intermezzi, offering the appearance
of a genuine plurality of participators ; of difficulties attending
the process of communication, not referable to the act of sub-
conscious utterance as such,—and so forth. Now into the essence
of these arguments, which have been received by competent
psychical researchers (Prof. Driesch among them) as a valuable
contribution towards the scientific establishment of the spiritistic
hypothesis, my critic does not enter in the least, hoping appar-
ently to dispose of the whole structure of my arguments and
conclusions by discrediting the material on which it is based. My
investigations, he avers, have but the appearance of science,"
since they presuppose throughout the medium's bona fides
"
and
' assume the genuineness of [trance-Jutterances "
(p. 364). But
in doing this they move on " precarious ground," to prove which
my critic instances the doubts cast at some time on Mrs. Thomp-
son's honesty by Dr. Hodgson (Proc. vol. xvii, p. 138 sqq.). Now
it is true that Dr. Hodgson, after having attended but six sittings
with Mrs. Thompson, suspected (but never proved !) her giving out
to her sitter information normally, and even surreptitiously,
acquired. But then he denied Mrs. Thompson's ever having gone
into trance during those sittings {op. cit. pp. 139, 143), while,
28 Journal of Society for Psychical itesearc^ February, 1929
apart from him, no one of those who investigated her phenomena
ever doubted the genuineness of her trances in general. In fact,
as Count Perovsky undoubtedly knows, the very volume just
quoted contains papers by Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. Myers, Dr. van
Eeden, Mr. " Wilson " and Mrs. Verrall, who all of one accord
declare themselves in favour of the genuineness of the Thompson
trances, the supernormality of much of the knowledge shown in
them, and even, in part, the plausibility of a spiritistic interpreta-
tion of certain incidents (see Proc. vol. xvii, pp. 66, 73, 81 sqq.,
130 sqq., 136, 217 sqq.) ; and in the following vol. (xviii) of the Pro-
ceedings Mr. Piddington published a most valuable and pains-
taking examination of Mrs. Thompson's trance-phenomena as a
whole, after which there could not, in any unprejudiced reader's
mind, remain the shadow of a doubt with regard to their genuine-
ness and, to a great extent, supernormality. Nor does even
Count Perovsky altogether ignore the pro's in Mrs. Thompson's
case (p. 365) ; he merely insists that, " grave doubts
—
whether
rightly or wrongly— " as to a trance-medium repeatedly quoted
by me having once been uttered, I should not have passed over
those suspicions in silence. I surely think, on the contrary, that,
being convinced, from a comprehensive study of the case, that
Dr. Hodgson's doubts had been superseded, I was justified in
using the best of her trance records as material for my analytical
study. At any rate, to say that here I was moving on " utterly
precarious ground," shows a degree of favouring negative wit-
nesses, of which I may leave it to my readers to form their own
opinion. However, be that as it may : assuming even that the
Thompson records had justly and completely been ruled out of
court, I maintain that this would not noticeably weaken the
fabric of my arguments. I have, in the course of my articles,
referred to Mrs. Thompson—if I may trust a cursory counting
—
just 22 times ; I have not quoted her at all under several of
my headings, and but once and but incidentally under some
others. Against this stands the fact of my articles containing
83 references to Mrs. Piper, 102 to Mrs. Leonard, 39 to Mrs.
Verrall, and about a dozen to Mrs. " King," Mrs. Salter, Mrs.
" Holland " and various other sensitives. I feel certain that in
view of these figures any depreciation of my quotations- from the
Thompson records, if it were to be admitted, might be suffered
to drop out of consideration. For even Count Perovsky's staunch
Februart, 1929 Reply to Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo 29
scepticism will hardly go the length of declaring the acts of all
those sensitives to be " utterly precarious ground." If such be
the case, the S.P.R. might as well give up printing trance-records
at all, and psychical researchers despair of ever obtaining material
for an analytical study of the deeper problems of their science.
Altogether Count Perovsky is misconceiving the trend of my
thought when he complains that, while analysing the trance-
utterances of professional mediums, I throughout assume the
genuineness of these utterances "
(p. 364), if by " genuineness
"
he means their partly supernormal character, not to speak of their
possible origin in the mind of any departed. What I am
solely assuming is the genuineness of the trance-state (or the
automatic nature of utterances respectively) an unassailable
assumption in practically every case I have made use of ; for
almost exclusively by analysing the dramatic forms of such utter-
ances have I been trying to prove the participation in them of
more than one independent entity,—quite regardless of the contents
of such utterances, which, of course, form the usual basis for
ascribing to them any supernormal origin. It is, then, the
validity of my conclusions drawn from such analysis which ought
to be either admitted or else criticized ;
yet as to that validity
my critic has not said one word.
Count Perovsky equally falls into error when from the general
depreciation of my materials he passes on to criticizing individual
instances. In my analysis of the White Case I had, inter alia,
described the curious scene during a Leonard sitting shortly after
Mrs. White's death, when " Feda " alone seemed totally unable
to grasp the fact that her former client had " passed over," while
the sitter (Miss Nea Walker) and the communicator ("' Mr.
White ") were, of course, aware of it and used expressions about
it which might have enlightened, but ended by " completely
bamboozling," the control. " Dr. Mattiesen," says the Count,
" assumes without further ado that Feda '
naturally '
knew nothing
of the death, and after an exhaustive discussion of the incidents
of the sitting based on so strange an assumption, observes that
another instance more conclusive of the spirit hypothesis could
hardly have been quoted. Poor hypothesis indeed if unsupported
by better evidence !
"
(p. 365). Poor, indeed, if no better
evidence be available than my critic fondly imagines the present
one to be. As a matter of fact, I did not make the above
30 Journal oj Socitiy fur Faychicat litsearch February, 1929
assumi^tion " without further ado," but on the explicit testimony
of Miss Walker, author of The Bridge, who tells us (p. 260) that
" Mrs. Leonard had never known Mrs. White's name or address,
so that newspaper notices would not inform her of the death,
supposing she saw any. And she was not told of it in any
other way." But then, assuming even that Mrs. Leonard, and
therefore " Feda," might have become aware of the death by
normal or any other means, we should still have to weigh the
lifelike " naturalness " of the trance-scene against the possibility
and likelihood of Feda's creating such a wonderful piece of
" comedy " and make-believe, instead of parading her knowledge
of the death as a cheap means of proving insight into the happen-
ings of the beyond. I challenge readers to study the record of
the sitting in question {The Bridge, p. 262 ff.) and then ask
themselves whether they do not find in " Feda's " exclusive and
obvious ignorance of what everybody else knows—conclusive proof
of the independence, in this case, of cummunicator and control.
Here is another sample of the Count's " critical methods " as
applied to individual instances : I had been arguing that " acoustic
mishearing " of the communicator by the control contributed one
proof, amongst others, of their mutual independence. Count P.
attempts (on p. 365 sq.) to invalidate one of the instances given
for this, viz. the apparent mistaking of " Hodgson " for " Hog-
man " on the part of " Rector," by declaring it a possible " piece
of refined comedy "
—thus turning into a criticism an admission
made by myself. He does not tell his readers that I had given
six instances in all of this special sort of occurrences, which it
would be difficult to stamp, all of them, as pieces of comedy.
And even were we to admit a bare possibility of doing so in most
cases taken singly—does not Count Perovsky admit that it is
often by the accumulation of stray hints that the weight of an
explanation is increased until it well-nigh amounts to certainty,
just as it is the convergence of various forms of argument in my
articles which amounts to a new kind of proof of survival ?
The second general criticism advanced by Count Perovsky refers
to the fact that in my articles I have been discussing certain
pro's, but have " completely ignored " the contra"s of the spiri-
tistic explanation of trance-phenomena ; a fact which is said to
" deprive [my] work of scientific value," since " science is no
plaidoyer " (366). I am rather amazed at such logic in polemics.
February, 1929 Reply to Count Feruvsky-Petrovo-Solovovo 31
My articles did not pretend to constitute a comprehensive treatise
on Spiritism. In them I repeatedly and emphatically proclaimed
my intention to set aside, for the time, all those facts which
represent difficulties in the way of a spiritistic explanation of
trance-phenomena, and to limit myself to the exhibition of just
one new line of argument in favour of it. (See p. 341 of vol. 3,
Ztschr. f. ps. F., as well as p. 69, referred to by Count Perovsky.)
I also referred my readers, in the very same sentence, to a paper
to be jjublished at a later date, in which those difficulties were
to be discussed at length and worked into a comprehensive theory
of the trance-drama. What there is unpardonable in such a
proceeding, or un-" scientific " (a regular word-fetish of my critic)
I am at a loss to make out. Count Perovsky kindly credits me
with a knowledge of " Mrs. Sidgwick's admirable paper in vol. xv
of Proceedings," setting forth some of those difficulties ; and I
shall credit him with a knowledge of her still more admirable
paper filling the whole of vol. xxviii, and far more exhaustively deal-
ing with those difficulties. But what of that ? Do Mrs. Sidg-
wick's investigations preclude any further vindication of spiritistic
views ? Far from it, says—Count Perovsky (p. 368). And well
might he be aware that even Mrs. Sidgwick, notwithstanding her
surpassing acumen in expounding the mortal side of trance-
mediumship, has more than once declared her willingness to
admit, ultimately, a spiritistic interpretation of certain trance-
phenomena. This being so, what becomes of the Count's
reproach, and by what canon of logic was I constrained to force
a discussion of surmountable difficulties into an article expressly
destined to extend the positive proofs of spiritism by just one ?
After all, I should hardly have thought proper to devote so
much space to the refutation of so ill-considered an attack, were
it not that in replying to it I meant to meet a class of critics
and psychical " researchers " who ought, I think, at times to be
reminded to keep within bounds. I mean those " negativists
"'
who seem to find the purpose of " scientific " work in endless
fastidious cavilling at details and gnawing at the weaker points
of individual " cases," even after a genuine natural type of facts
has long been established beyond reasonable doubt by the constant
recurrence of typical details in a majority of " strong " cases.
Those negativists undoubtedly serve some useful purpose in
steadying the advance of research, yet never really contribute
32 Journal 0/ Society for Psychical Research February, 1929
towards the progress of science, which essentially aims at the
establishment of a rational synthesis and comprehension of facts.
Their resolute " will to disbelieve " condemns them to sterility,
notwithstanding their perpetual talk of " scientific standards " and
"critical methods," and their names will most likely be forgotten^
when the history of the science of metapsychics, i.e. of those
synthetic conceptions, which constitute its framework, shall come
to be written.
[This article was received in December, but was held over for
lack of space. We have also received from Miss Nea Walker, the
author of The Bridge,"' a letter dealing with that part of Count
Solovovo's article which involves her own work, in much the
same terms as Dr. Mattiesen.
—
Ed.]
REVIEW.
Psychical Science and Religious Belief. By J. Aethur Hill.
Rider and Co., London. 5s. net.
Another book by Mr. J. Arthur Hill is sure to be welcomed.
His new work has the qualities which have characterised his
former writings, plus, a closer unity of conception, which gives it
additional interest from a literary standpoint. He has always
shown a full consciousness of the importance of well-attested
facts. Whilst recognizing that many things may be true
which cannot be proved to be so, he never bases his convictions
on anything short of good evidence ;
'
moreover, he reviews both
the facts and the conclusions to which they have led him in a
" dry light." Of no one can it be asserted that he is wholl}^
without bias of any kind, but certainly Mr. Hill cannot be accused
of a bias in favour of credulity. It is the impact of facts of
experience which have compelled him, as a logical and honest
thinker, to the complete change of attitude which he has made
during the last twenty-five years.
In his last book, in addition to the re-statement of some of
the results of psychical research, which have appeared in our
Proceedings and elsewhere, he has added further experiences which
1 1 confess to looking forward to such a prospect with undisguised cheerful-
ness. And as the same destiny is, I fear, likely to overtake Dr. Mattiesen,.
may I express the hope that his serenity in this respect will be in no way
inferior to my own.—P.-P.-S.
February, 1929 Revieiv 33
hitherto have not been in print. As the title indicates, his aim
is not merely to present evidence for supernormal occurrences in
a compact form, but, also, to co-ordinate the knowledge thus
acquired with Religion and Philosophy. Such attempts are
specially interesting at the present time. In a period of transition
there is always a risk that truths of vital importance may be dis-
carded together with the obsolete interpretations that must be set
aside. The work of interpretation and co-ordination cannot be
fully done by one writer, or, indeed, at any one period, but
thoughtful writers can greatly assist in this task, provided they
keep themselves abreast of fresh discoveries. Mr. Hill is both
well-informed and eminently fair-minded, therefore his contribution
to the literature of psychical research and to the work of co-
ordinating this subject with previous studies can be recommended
to all inquirers, especially to those who have not time for personal
experiment or prolonged research.
The headings of chapters clearly indicate the scope of the work.
" Can old doctrines be retained by interpretation ?
" " Possible
basis of a new religious world-view." " Conditions of the Here-
after," etc.
The latter chapter is necessarily the least satisfactory ; the
author is obviously aware that it must be so. He admits that
he " has not felt much interested in the matter." His remarks
are quite appropriate, but they do not carry the reader far. He
considers that it is not possible to obtain reliable information
concerning the environment of discarnate beings.
If human beings, both before and after death, possess mental,
psychical and spiritual faculties, we may reasonably conclude that
we can to some extent understand the nature of conditions after
death in these respects, since we have a common experience in
these faculties ; communications claiming to come from the
Beyond amply support this conclusion. But as they have ceased
to use physical bodies, we do not know how their organisms may
be related to the new environment. Any speculations on this
line should be held very tentatively. We know, however, that
progressive evolution is the law of life ; and therefore we anticipate
that enhanced faculties may result in an interpretation of environ-
ment exceeding in interest and delight anything we can at present
experience under our limited conditions.
.
. H. A. Dallas.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febkuary, 1929
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Etudes, 5th November, 1928.
Father Roure discusses the report on the International Congress
for Psychical Research (1927) recently published. Some of his
remarks deserve attention. He quotes with obvious approval
Prof. Ch. Richet's statement as to the meagre (mediocres) results
obtained hitherto by spiritists and M. Sudre's remarks to the
same effect. A propos of the jAysical phenomena, he speaks of
Sir William Crookes's " credulity " re the Katie King apparitions.
My belief in the genuineness of the latter is of the slightest
;
and yet I do not think we are entitled to regard the matter as
irrevocably and definitively disposed of. On the whole the writer
is very sceptical towards physical phenomena ; less so with
regard to what Prof. Richet calls metapsychique subjective. Speak-
ing of Dr. Osty's investigation of precognition, he expresses the
opinion that this gentleman's conclusions are too hasty ; and
utters the—very natural and legitimate—wish of knowing the
details of at least one seance out of the two thousand attended
by the French investigator : an opinion with which many of us,
including myself, will be inclined to agree.
When Father Roure says on the other hand that it is highly
imprudent to expose oneself to being told by a voyante about
calamities imagined by the latter but which may become real on
account of panic seizing the sitter, I think he is only partly
right. Of course, here as elsewhere, almost everything depends
on the personality of the sitter.
On the whole Father Roure's article is interesting chiefly as
another indication of a change of attitude towards metapsychical
researches on the part of some Roman Catholic circles. If ani-
mosity there be, it is hardly apparent. It is but just to add
that such an attitude is, I believe, an exceptional one.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, December, 1928.
Dr. Siinner, the Editor, concludes his paper on the " Psycho-
metric Gift of Frau Lotte Plaat," the second part being chiefly
devoted to six seances, which took place in Berlin in June last.
The results are summed up by Dr. S. as follows : 28 positive,
5 negative, and 5 half-negative half-positive, Frau Plaat being
promoted by him to the rank of one of the great " psychic
February, 1939 Notes on Periodicals 35
mediums." I confess to being unable to share in this en-
thusiasm.
Professor Dr. Oskar Kraus describes two sittings in Prague with
Frau M. Silbert, the first very briefly, the second in great detail.
The impression produced on me by these accounts is slightly more
favourable than is usually the case with this medium. On the
other hand, Prof. Kraus admits himself (p. 728) that the conditions
" were not in accordance with the requirements of severe criticism."
Dr. Otto Seeling narrates briefly " new successes " obtained by
Frau Hessel, the Leipzig clairvoyante. Corroboration is given in
several cases, and some of the incidents described may be regarded
as interesting.
Herr Daniel Walter, of Graz, has a paper on Baron Lazar
Hellenhach (died in October 1887). A list of his works is given,
and it is asserted that he saw a World War coming, and indicated
the final remedy to be in a League of Nations and in the people's
right to self-determination. Chapter and verse are not given,
unfortunately.
" Kleine Mitteilungen " informs us of the death of Herr Max
Selling, formerly a Professor of the University of Helsingfors, a
writer on matters psychical.
Dr. Marcinowski of Bad-Heilbronn brings to a close his paper
on " Intuitive Chamkterdiagnosen " begun in the October number
of the Zeitschrift. Altogether forty-four delineations are given,
based on an intuitive " grasping of the implications of people's
hand-writing (this definition is my own and the writer would
possibly object to it, since he explicitly states that Frau Anita
Plette knows very little of graphology (p. 570) : in Dr. M.'s
opinion we have to deal here with a form of supernormal know-
ledge which he calls Helhvissen).
I confess to being not very much impressed by these delinea-
tions, though I cannot help admiring Frau K.'s style. My reasons
are the following : (a) we do not know whether the forty-four
" diagnostics " represent the whole of Frau K.'s performances ;
(6) we are told (p. 577) that she has had much less success in another
branch (when dealing with people's horoscopes) ;
(c) many of the
delineations are not reproduced in toto (pp. 583, 587, 676, 677) ;
(d) we have to rely almost exclusively if not exclusively on Dr.
Marcinowski himself as to the degree of accuracy in the " diag-
nostics " ;
(e) we are told (p. 573) that sometimes the symbols
36 Journal uf Society for Psychical iiesmrcA Febkuaky, 1929
used by Frau K. in her descriptions refer to future events happen-
ing months later : the margin for fortuitously successful " hits " is
thus considerably widened. Apart from these special considerations
we have general ones : such characteristics are somewhat like the
cap that will fit many a head, and it is obvious on the other
hand that often one and the same person may be characterized
in a variety of ways. About this particular branch of Psychical
Research (and I am inclined to include in it many so-called
" psychometric '"
cases) there seems to me therefore to float a
mist of vagueness and imprecision as dangerous as concrete cheat-
ing because so much less conspicuous. I am afraid it is one of
the most sterile branches. How much I prefer performances like
those of a Ludwig Kahn !
Revue Metapsychique, November-December 1928.
It is significant that out of five papers in the strict sense
of the word this number contains only two which may be con-
sidered as dealing with our researches. For M. Andry-Bourgeois
continues his series of articles on " The Great Problems of Modern
Physics," which have with those researches no connection what-
ever ; and Dr. C. G. Jung's lecture on " The Structure of the
Soul," delivered in Geneva in June last, has but a slender one.
Dr. Emile Pascal's paper on " The Production of Somnambulism
by Scopochloralose " deals again with orthodox hypnosis. Dr.
Pascal has found that by combining 0.5 gram, of chloralose with
0.7 milligr. of scopolamine hydrobromide deep sleep can be
induced ;
that if these doses are slightly increased a state of
anaesthesia and suggestibility is obtained. Investigation along
these lines can, he thinks (and we think), be fruitful.
M. R. A. Fleury demolishes the book of M. Piobb, Le Secret
de Nostradamus, and irresistibly shows the extremely arbitrary
character of the Piobb methods. This article should be read in
connection with pp. 323-328 of Dr. R. Baerwald's OkkuUismus und
Spiritismus, where the " prophecies " of the French seer supposed
to bear on the French Revolution are disposed of in masterly
fashion by Herr Richard Hennig. One remark of M. Fleury's is,
however, somewhat perplexing : he is still of opinion that Nostra-
damus was a medium " who was many times able to foresee the
future "
(p. 502). To some readers this admission will appear
as weakening to some extent M. Fleury's criticisms.
Febroary, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 37
M. Dureix, a Grenoble engineer, studies anew (cf. Revue Meta-
psychique, 1926, No. 5) the question of premonition in gambling.
The experiments bear on Mme. Dureix's supposed ability to fore-
tell winning numbers of the Monte Carlo roulette by drawing out
of a basket pellets (altogether 37) on which different numbers
had been written by M. D. After a very detailed analysis of the
results, the latter is bound to admit that they are not decisive
in favour of the clairvoyance hypothesis, though he is obviously
impressed by some of these results.
We need not insist on the difference between such experiments
as those of M. Dureix and trials dealing with clairvoyant perception
of cards drawn at random out of a pack, where we need not go
beyond an extension—however extraordinary—of our ability of
acquiring knowledge. In the former case, on the contrary, we
have to postulate prophetic prevision of the future : a fact for
which in my humble opinion we have no good evidence.
There is much to glean in M. Ch. Quartier's " Metapsychics in
Prance and Abroad." First of all there is a passage dealing with
Mme. Bisson and the late Dr. Geley (p. 523). The reader has
the impression that the Secretary of the Institut Metapsychique
International says less than he would like to. Let us hope that
M. Quartier's discreet allusion will soon be followed by a complete
disclosure (cf. "'Notes on Periodicals" in the .July and October
Journal for 1928).
M. Quartier notes incidentally when speaking of M. Paul Heuze's
book, La detestable plaisanterie des animaux calculateurs, that he
saw tables (gueridons) move without contact last summer (p. 529).
More details, please ! He also narrates briefly the experiments
in " thought-graphy " (surely a very clumsy name) with some
Japanese mediums of Dr. T. Fukurai, President of the Japanese
Psychic Institute, Professor at Kohyasan (?) University. These
extraordinary experiments consisted chiefly in the mental impres-
sion of Chinese ideograms on photographic plates. What a pity
Japan is so far away !
We are also informed of the publication by Colonel Norbert
Okolowiz of a book of 588 pages of text containing the accounts
of 340 seances with the Polish medium Kluski. The " perfect
"
resemblance of 88 of the materialised forms which appeared with
deceased human beings is asserted.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1929
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschurig, December 1928.
Dr. Mattiesen narrates the " Saint Paul " cross-correspondence
(Proceedings S.P.R. vol. xxii, 31 sqq.), which he thinks, together with
Dr. Walter Prince—and while accepting the latter's emendation of
II Peter iii. 15 instead of i. 15—one of the most convincing.
Dr. Pagenstecher has the beginning of a paper on pre-natal
suggestion. I am inclined to agree with him : why not admit
here in the popular belief a substratum of truth ?
Dr. Schroder begins another paper on " Metaplasma-Phanomenik."
Two cases of spontaneous drawings or other impressions " super-
normally " produced in mirrors are related or mentioned, one
occurring in Bremen in December, 1927, in connection with a
silver-wedding. No details are apparently available. We have
further a series of photographs showing the medium Frau RudlofE
and the " meta- " (or " tele- ") " plasma," also the proces-verbaux
of four sittings in 1921, which all took place in the RudlofE flat,
Herr, Frau and Fraiilein taking part in two of these seances and
Frau and Fraiilein in the other two.
An extraordinary episode, said to have occurred in London in
connection with experiments with electric currents of high tension,
is reproduced from the Neues Wiener Journal ^
; and two cases of
spontaneous phenomena and apparitions occurring in prison are
quoted by Dr. G. Zeller from publications which appeared in
the thirties and forties. The most striking of these two (the
Esslinger case) is described in detail, we are told, in a book of
Kerner's named Eine Erscheinung aus dem Nachtgebiete der Natur
(1836), which is to be found in the Tubingen University Library,
also in the Stuttgart Landesbibliothek and in Berlin. Could not
one of our German members be asked to supply the S.P.R. with
a copy of this narrative, which, judging by what Dr. Z. says,
seems to be rather striking ? P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, November 1928.
This number opens with " Recollections of Jean Gouzik " by
M. Rene Sudre. M. Sudre, whilst admitting the equivocal nature
of many of Gouzik's performances, quite definitely maintains that
he did on occasion produce genuine phenomena of a remarkable
character (telekinesis and materialisations). He gives several
1 No trace can be found of the electrical Company in whose works those
incidents are said to have occurred.
—
Ed.
Febbuahy, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 39
examples from his own experience. It is unfortunate that all
Gouzik's phenomena were invariably produced in total darkness ;
M. Sudre has himself called attention more than once to the
great disabilities which this condition imposes on the observer.
Dr. Hereward Carrington has a further instalment of his Report
on "A Subjective Analysis of Obsession," and Mr. Harry Price
has an article on " The Automatic Art of Heinrich Nusslein,"
including photographic reproductions of four pictures.
The number also includes " A Chapter from the Akasha. A
Chronicle of Clairvoyance and Reincarnation " (Anonymous), and
" The Theoretical Basis of Psychical Phenomena," by C. E. M.
Joad, M.A.
British Journal of Psychical Research, November-December, 1928.
This number opens with a report of a lecture by Mr. C. B. M.
Joad on " Psychic Phenomena and an Interpretation of the
Universe." Assuming for the sake of argument the occurrence of
psychic phenomena of various kinds Mr. Joad is concerned to see
" what our picture of the universe must be if it is going to
include the possibility of these phenomena happening."
A case is contributed by Mrs. McConnel in which some evidence
concerning a young man who lost his life in the sinking of the
submarine Ml on November 12th, 1925, was given at a sitting with
Miss Cummins. It ought to be clearly established (a fact which
the record appears to assume) that at the date of the sitting,
November 20th, 1925, no statement as to the young man's death
had appeared in any of the papers.
Mrs. F. E. Leaning has " A Report on a Series of Sjjontaneous
Telepathic Impressions," in which " the receiver " is Miss Jane
Samuels, with whom Mr. Hubert Wales experimented some years
ago (see Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxi, pp. 124-217) ;
" the sender " in
the present case is Miss Moore, an assistant at Miss Samuels's
shop. The impressions recorded seem to be of the same general
type as those recorded by Mr. Wales.
We learn with regret that Mrs. Leaning has resigned the
Honorary Editorship of the Brit. Jour, of Psych. Research for
reasons of health.
Psychic Research, December 1928.
Mr. Harry Price has an account of " Psychic Experiments in
the Roman Catacombs." The experiments consisted in taking a
40 Joitrnal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1929
" psychic " (an Italian woman) into the Catacombs of St. Agnes,
where she went into a condition of semi-trance and described a
series of visions from the life of St. Agnes. Mr. Price admits that
as regards the majority of these visions there is no means of
ascertaining whether they have any basis in fact (they differ in
various particulars from the traditional life of the Saint) ; he is,
however, impressed by a coincidence between the death of St.
Agnes as described by the psychic and the scene portrayed in an
old Italian picture (the property of Mr. T. Vincent Lane) which
has recently been asserted by " experts " to be a representation
of the death of St. Agnes.
M. Sudre has an article entitled " A New Martian Romance and
an Old One," in which he gives some account of the famous
case of Helene Smith as described by Flournoy in " Des Indes a
la Planete Mars," and draws an analogy between this case and
the recent claim of Dr. Mansfield Robinson to be in psychic
rapport with Mars, a claim which he has unsuccessfully tried to
substantiate by establishing wireless communication with that planet.
There is a further instalment of the Report on " Teleplasmic
Thumbprints "'
by E. E. Dudley and J. Malcolm Bird.
Psychic Scie7ice, January 1929.
This number opens by an account—mainly contributed by Prof.
E. Bozzano—of some " direct voice " sittings held in Italy at the
house of the Marc.hese Centurione Scotto ; no professional medium
was present. In addition to the voice-phenomena some very
remarkable apports were observed ; these are attributed to the
mediumship of Madame Fabienne Rossi, one of the sitters. With-
out impugning the good faith of any of those present, it may be
noted that no scientific conclusions can possibly be drawn from
observations made under such lax and uncertain conditions.
" As is usual in the case of Direct Voice Seances the room was
in the most total darkness "
(p. 286), neither the room nor the
sitters were ever searched, nor, so far as is apparent from the
record, was any attempt ever made to control the sitters' move-
ments.
Among the " spirit-voices " heard were those of Eusapia Pal-
ladino and Rabelais, but it is admitted that in the case of
Rabelais his personal identity was not clearly established.
H. de G. S.
No. 453.—Vol. XXV. Maeoh, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.G. i,
ON
WED'NESDAY, March 6th, 1929, at 5-30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Report on the Investigation of Some Sittings with
Mrs. Warren Elliott."
will be read by
Mr. H. F. SALTMARSH
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissio?i are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates ivillbe admitted on signing their names at the door.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1929
NEW MEMBERS.
Farone, Mrs., 56 Redcliffe Square, London, S.W. 10.
Michaelis, Miss Marie, 308 Addison House, Grove End Road,
London, N.W.8
Monteith, Miss Mary, 2 Carlton Hill, Exmouth, Devon.
Schofield, R. W., 53 Leyland Road, Southport.
Scotland, Dr. Douglas 0., Church Lane, Brighouse, Yorks.
Talbot, Lieut.-Oolonel F. G., Glenhurst, Esher, Surrey.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 255tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, January 31st, 1929, at
3 p.m., The President in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. Theodore Besterman, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, The Hon. Mrs.
Alfred Lyttelton, D.B.E., Mr. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Six new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The 256th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, January 31st, 1929, im-
mediately after the Extraordinary General Meeting ; The
President in the chair. There were also present : The Right
Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. Theodore
Besterman, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, The Hon. IVIrs. Alfred Lyttel-
ton, D.B.E., Mr. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr.
S. G. Soal, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also. Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., was re-elected President of the
Society for the year 1929.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Mr. W. H. Salter were re-elected
Hon. Secretaries ; Dr. V. J. WooUey was re-elected Hon.
Research Officer, Mr. W. H. Salter, Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
March, 1929 Meetings of the Council 43
W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor ; and Mr. Theodore Besterman,
Hon. Librarian ; and Messrs. Miall, Wilkins, Avery and Co.
were re-elected Auditors for tlie current year.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication.—The Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
House and Finance Committee.—Miss Ina Jephson, Mr. W. H.
Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Dr. V. J.
WooUey.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for
the year 1929.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Thursday,
January 31st, 1929, at 3.30 p.m., The President in the chair.
There were also present : Mrs. W. W. Baggally, The Right
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Lady Dickinson Berry,
Mr. Theodore Besterman, Mr. W. R. Bousfield^ Mr. and Mrs.
Brackenbury, Mr. G. B. Brown, Miss Carruthers, Mrs. Champion
de Crespigny, Lieut. -Colonel Maxwell Dick, Mr. and Mrs. Ding-
wall, Miss Dingwall, Mr. Duff, Mr. Fonnereau, Miss Foot, Mrs.
Frith, Lieut.-Colonel Gordon-Tucker, Major Handley-Seymour,
Mr. Harrington, Rev. W. S. Irving, Mrs. Kingsley, Lord Leigh,
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, D.B.E., Miss Newton, Mr. NichoU,
Mrs. Pennington, Mrs. Robertson, Mrs. Rothschild, Mr. Salter,
Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. Montgomery Smith, IVIr. Soal, Mrs.
St. Loe Strachey, Mr. Summerson, Miss Swainson, Miss Taylor,
Miss M. E. Turner, Mr. Vinen, Mr. Max West, Mrs. Westray,
and Dr. V. J. WooUey. And by proxy : Miss Balfour, the
Earl of Balfour, Mrs. E. W. S. Balfour, Professor Dodds, Mr.
J. Arthur HiU, Mr. Piddington, Mrs. Salter and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick.
The President stated that the Annual Report of the Council
for 1928 had been printed in the January Journal, and circu-
lated to all members of the Society.
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1929
The Hon. Treasurer, Mr. W. H. Salter, in presenting the
Financial Statement, which is printed on pp. 46-48, referred
to the two legacies received by the Society during the past
year of £500 from J\Irs. Smithson and £200 from Miss
Simmonds.
During the year the Society had paid the balance of the
expenditure connected with the re-organisation of the Library.
He had issued an appeal for subscriptions to the amount of
£400, in order that as little as possible of the cost of re-
organisation should fall on the Society's General Funds, and
he was rather disappointed that the total amount received in
response to this appeal was only £180, including subscriptions
received diiring 1927. The subscription list was still open
and he hoped that a liberal response would be made to this
further appeal.
He would also be glad to see further donations towards the
Society's Research Fund which was now reduced to £210. It
was important that the Society should have a good reserve
in hand in order that it might promptly avail itself of any
opportunity for research which might occur. The Society's
financial position was, speaking generally, quite sound, but the
ordinary income of the Society was not sufficient to enable it
to pursue that active policy of research which the Council and
Officers of the Society, and the Society as a whole desired,
imless supplemented by special donations.
In the discussion which followed, Mr. Dingwall, Mr. Salter
and Mr. Besterman took part.
The Meeting then proceeded to the election of Members of
Council.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members of
Council offered themselves for re-election. No other nomina-
tions having been received, the following were declared to be
duly elected Members of the Council : Mr. Bousfield, K.C.,
Professor E. R. Dodds, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G.
Piddingt,on, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller and Dr. M. B. Wright.
March, 1929 Extraordinary General Meetiny 45
EXTRAOEDINAKY GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
On the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, the Extra-
ordinary General Meeting convened for the same day was held,
The President being in the chair. The same Members were
present as at the General Meeting with the exception of Lord
Leigh who had to leave, but with the addition of Mrs. Thesiger.
The Notice convening the Meeting was read by the Secretary.
The Chairman made a short explanatory statement as to the
reasons which had made it desirable to lay before the Society
for its approval and adoption a revised form of Articles of
Association.
The Resolution set out in the notice was moved by the
Chairman and seconded by Mr. Bousfield.
Mr. Dingwall moved and Mr. Brown seconded the following
amendment
:
Amendment to Article 29 : In place of the words :
" Then
such persons shall be deemed elected as shall obtain the
highest number of votes in accordance with the provisions
of Article 44 " shall be substituted the words :
" Then
such persons shall be deemed elected as shall obtain the
highest number of votes by numbered voting papers,
containing the names of those eligible for election, sent to
all the Members of the Society at least 14 days prior to
the meeting."
A discussion followed in which Colonel Maxwell Dick, Dr.
V. J. WooUey, Mr. S. C. Scott, Mr. E. N. Bennett and Mr.
W. H. Salter took part, and the amendment was put to the
meeting. On a show of hands there appeared in favour of
the amendment, 10 ;
against the amendment, 28 Members.
The amendment was therefore declared lost.
In the further discussion on the original resolution set out
in the notice convening the meeting, various Members, in-
cluding Mr. Dingwall and Mr. Summerson, took part.
The original Resolution was then put to the Meeting and
on a show of hands there appeared in favour of the Resolution,
34 ;
against the Resolution, 6 Members.
The Resolution was therefore declared carried by the requisite
majority.
o o o z> 00 1-H o O o 01 o o
1-H
o o 01 o o o OT
CO o
o 00 00 o o o iH
CO
I—
1
CI 1—
1
I—I »—
I
00
I—
<
CI C^I CO
1—
1
CO
I—
<
X rH
o
£843
o
CI
CD o o
00 t-
T—
(
(N CO
00
i>
Oi
1/5
1-1
in CI CO c;
Cl
o CJ 01 I—
'
CO 1-H
— CD
^co
1-H
i|r
= 11 -3
I,- -V ^
o ^
K, » ?
s
Ph
>>
M
go
CZ3
ft ci nj
s I
irH frt
h4 o
to ><
E -
o P
^ C3
^ O
o
. cs a
-a
c .
S
" o
Si !s c
pp p;
Q = ti
Qj fc- oj rt
f4 O P=l
= c .2
H E-i CO oj H <!
1.
§•
P
CO P. ^
£3
(-1
o
o :a
^ .2 M
OC rH
>-H rH
a Oi 00 lO
00 00 OJ
i> iH CO CJ
S o
Ph T3
o
o
3 CO
S "3 W
<£ ts S S -S
5 « C) O O fi
„ o
3 E
° P4
£ .. B g
H 3
o
CO bo
C3 O
« •§
^
'3
o o o o
o o o
o o C5
o o
CO
CO
00
I> TT" o c: rH O O
rH
O CI O r-i I'- ^ lO
O O O rH 01 O
^ ^ O
OG CO O
GO OJ CO
• ' '
I I
CI CO o
rH CO o CO
rH
o
CO l>
CO 00
(M CJ (M
CS O CI
o o
CO Ol CI
5
1-1
o
p.
H g
^ rt —
Pi
.2 S
t3 O
o
"2 C' ^3
§ 2 g
o a
- B =
a
O t-^ )-H
0< a>
^5
3
XI a
ft O
P-t -^^ r;-.
° ^ ij
^ CO p=; p^^;
o o Ph
.S s g §
-1 CO fi fi
£
S -
ft h^l CO P5
o
EH
H
3 o C
S M >,
I- 03 o
H S
O C3 03
O O Hi
a
o
.S
3 CI
"o CO
a
~ c*i
t/2 • •
c ca
a 3
2 P=H
to o
o CI
CI o
CO
00 CI
00 o
CI CI
CO
CO
— 3
£> >> ?
ci
0 0^ £3
3 O
^ a
•a =-2
1 2-1
S s i
i g g
C! O 6
>> - .
CQ - -
o
o
C-1 »
^ o o
a ^
J3 o
a 1
5
rt O
= fc; -o
•
2 a
S 3
^ ^
T
o 00 5 .
O .3
5 -3
^ o
>1
^ o
a>
s ^
o
c
3 03 C
n So
h)
-t^ -t^
•X ^ ^
c3 o.
05 ^
I
+s O
c O o
^ -O S "
C3 0) c/j J3
tti a > 2
S c, c .s
c3 a> ^ 3
!
-ta a
"
s 8
- i
3 3J
o
- .2
00
C3i
o
o
I
o o o IC
o l-l 00 CO CI
f—
1
1—1
CO I—
(
00 lO 00
I—
(
oo IM
CO 1—
'
iO
, J3 Ci
O M
2 r3
s £
q>
Ol C3 o
s a ^ 3
o S, 2 ^
o as o
I—
(
CO CO -* CI
i-H I-H
lO o x>
CO 00
CO
C 03
>
CO c
a
"(8
pq
o
2; s
a
o
m
01 -is CO
H
o
c
z;
(D — C
S.
g c»
1 -KM
CO C3
P3 ^
c« ^ 9
5
C5 CC
S5
CO
Cl
T-H
, to
^ CO
^ CO
m °5
I—. ""C <P O
>
O
O O
o
o
OOOt-^OC'OOOOO
OOOOOOOOOr-*jO
OOiOCCt-OOOOi-HOD
CI fM O CI t-- CO -r O »0 ^ O
^- it] ^' ^- ^ « « 't? «
<m <m ^ ^
c
£/3
Id
c
«2
71
5' o
2 -2
O C3
.12 Q M
z ^ ^
<V
I—( M-i
Q °
^ &
t3
o
o
SB
O °
m
t:; cu c
r- JS
„ S o
g o
IC 1-1
o
C*t « CO
ft s ^
O o
t- iO o
t—I ^1 ^
« (M Crt
's g
« S)
CO cs
g
£* S
o S
o 5
-a §
>H O
8 °.
CC -—I
CS o o
T3
a o
1-3 >o
o
CO lO
03 C-.
o o c3
CM C<1
O (M
^
2 S o
CM CC lO
CD CI
s»! « ^
March, 1929 Fourth International Congress 49^
THE FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR
PSYCHICAL- RESEARCH.
In about a year's time the next International Congress will be
held. The place, Athens, was selected at the 1927 Congress at
Paris, which also appointed an International Committee, consisting
of Sir Oliver Lodge, Professor Richet, Dr. Driesch, Mr. Carl Vett
(Secretary to the Congresses) and Dr. Tanagras, the President of
the Hellenic S.P.R., to arrange the programme and ensure that
all branches of Psychical Research were adequately covered by
papers from competent researchers.
The Hellenic S.P.R. is comparatively young, but under Dr.
Tanagras' able leadership, has shewn great energy, and may be
trusted to perform the duties of hospitality to everyone's satis-
faction.
Psychical Research is a subject in which International co-
operation is not easy. Different countries approach it in very
different ways. The Congresses have done not a little to promote
understanding between students all over the world, and the level
of discussion at the Congresses has steadily risen. It is to be
hoped that our Members will do everything in their power to
make the Athens Congress a success.
In particular it is hoped that a good number of English students
will attend the Congress, more than at Paris, where disappointingly
few put in an appearance. It is understood that arrangements
will be made to enable those attending the Athens Congress to
make excursions to other parts of Greece. It is not too early to
begin making plans now.
Further information as to exact dates, routes, fares, etc., will
be given later.
A BEQUEST TO OUR READERS FOR INFORMATION.
At an anonymous sitting with Mrs. Warren Elliott on 1 7th
June, 1927, and again at an anonymous sitting with Mrs.
Dowdall at Cardiff on November 1 7th, 1927, the following
statements were made to the same sitter concerning the same
ostensible communicator.
(I) Tliat he used to read " funny writing, like no letters at
all, looks like shorthand but it isn't that."
50 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research M4rch, 1929
(2) That he was interested in the stars.
(3) There was associated with him someone called Gerald or
Geraldine.
(4) This Gerald or Geraldine was interested in music.
This forms an excellent correspondence, but the statements are
not veridical of the apparent communicator and the sitter is
not able to trace any connection whatsoever.
If any reader can throw any light on this matter or knows
of any person of whom the statements would be true, will
they be good enough to communicate with the Society's
Secretary, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.
" LIFE BEYOND DEATH WITH EVIDENCE."
By a. W. Trethewy.
The purpose of this article is to discuss how far the cases
quoted by Mr. Drayton Thomas in his book mentioned above
support the spiritistic against the animistic explanation of
psychic phenomena, which is the main object of the book. In
some respects this work resembles Dr. Osty's Supernormal
Faculties of Man, translated by Mr. de Brath, London, 1923 ;
both authors quote cases in favour of their views on the
genesis of the phenomena, and deal solely with the mental
class. Dr. Osty, though he does not deny human survival,
does not believe in communication from discarnate spirits, but
his object is to prove the reality of the phenomena and the
adequacy of his explanation, not to disprove the theories of
spiritists. He would presumably explain Mr. Drayton Thomas's
cases on the same lines as his own, even if he had to extend
those lines to embrace the facts.
2. With some sensitives supernormal cognition purports to
be independent of the agency of discarnate spirits, the sensitive
iu a conscious state does not believe that he is subject to such
influences, and there is no external personality which professes
to direct his clairvoyance or other form of subconscious activity.
It is not impossible that in such a case there is some discar-
nate spirit in the background directing operations but con-
cealing his part in it, and this may be the opinion of some
March, 1929 " Life Beyond Death with Evidence " 51
spiritualists. Similarly some sceptics interpret cases which, have
a spiritistic setting as due to subliminal dramatisation. In the
present state of our knowledge it is wiser to recognise both
causes as hypothetically possible, and to classify the phenomenon
according to the interpretation which seems the more appro-
priate to the facts, or to mark it as doubtful if the two
explanations are equally plausible. The tendency to strain
one theory to cover the whole field should be strongly resisted.
I therefore discuss only those of Mr. Drayton Thomas's cases
which are most convincing from his point of view, that is to
say, seem to bear the impress of an external mind. Several
cases will claim inclusion because they contain information
which apparently has come from a deceased person. The
information must be knowledge not imagination, truth not
fiction ; there must be corroboration. Perhaps search has to be
made for some object, and if it is successful the alternative
to giving the credit to the deceased is to attribute the result
to the medium's clairvoyance. How much scope it is reason-
able to concede to the latter agency may be a matter of
opinion. Or verification may have to be obtained by question-
ing some living person, the alternative here will be the reading
of that person's memories through the sitter by the medium
as alleged by Dr. Osty for some of his cases.
3. The medium in every case recorded in Mr. Drayton
Thomas's book was Mrs. Osborne Leonard whose " Control
"
is Feda. The principal communicators were the author's father
and sister Etta, both deceased, and it is their identity which
is the main theme of the book.
4. Omitting several incidents narrated in the first four
chapters which would deserve mention if there were not so
much matter of greater significance, I come to the case of
Symonds versus Sinomons on pp. 47-51. The author asked his
father at a sitting to give for evidential purposes some facts
about one Symmonds. He mentioned his mother in this
connection because she first met his father at Symmonds's
house. At a subsequent sitting his father stated some facts
about another man Simmons which the author first took to
refer to Symmonds, but he discovered his mistake later. It is
certainly a strong point against the mind reading hypothesis
52 Jotirval of Society for Psychical Research March, 1929
that owing to the two names having the same sound his
question should be misunderstood and he should be given
information about a man not in his thoughts, including one
item, about Mrs. Savery's death, which meant nothing to him
till he had referred to Simmons's daughter, p. 48. It seems
incredible that the medium can have got the facts from any-
body's mind as there was no thought to initiate the rapport.
5. The communication about the purse on pp. 71, 72 seems
to have really come from his father, who said that an old purse
of his had been kept by his widow (the author's mother).
She was questioned and at first denied having it, but was
urged to make a further search and then found a purse
corresponding with the description. Dr. Osty would probably
explain this incident by attributing it to Feda's clairvoyance
(regarding Feda as a secondary personality of Mrs. Leonard)
or her power to read the mother's mind through the sitter
(the author). Such an explanation seems very far fetched in
the absence of any clue to the guidance which directed Feda
to the purse. This seems to me the strongest case mentioned
in Part I. of Chapter VIIL, but the others are well worth
reading, though the author might have discussed Feda's clair-
voyance on p. 75 as well as telepathy.
6. The case of the cousin's son on pp. 86, 87 is an important
one. The boy died in Canada and his father wrote to the
author about it, who at his own house mentally asked his
communicators about the boy's present condition, suggesting
that he was probably with his grandfather also deceased. At
the next sitting they gave details which they said they had
got from the grandfather and which were subsequently verified
through the boy's father. It is hardly credible that Feda knew
of the author's mental request in his study, or of the letter
which prompted it, and that this knowledge enabled her to
read the mind of the boy's father.^
7. The next case in the book, p. 87, that of Miss Sands, is
also important. She had lost her mother and asked the author
if he could help her to get a message from the deceased. He
was thinking of arranging a sitting for her with Mrs. Leonard
' Neither this child, his father or grandfather had been named at any
previous sitting. —C. D. T.
March, 1929 " Life Beyond Death with Evidence
"
53
when at a sitting of his own Feda referred to the matter,
speaking for his father, and said that Mrs. Sands had been to
see her daughter who had some trouble with her eyes. This
statement about the eyes turned out to be correct. The
question is whether the author's cormnunicators, who had
known Mrs. Sands well on earth, had been in touch with her
and thus foimd out her daughter's condition, or as an alterna-
tive Feda had got into rapport with Miss Sands' subliminal
through the author, found out the trouble with the eyes and
put the information into the mouths of the communicators.^
8. The author's remarks on p. 88 about discarnate spirits
knowing more about the thoughts than the material surround-
ings of hxmian beings would be interpreted by Dr. Osty as
based on the fact that mediums find mind reading easier than
clairvoyance."
9. The case of Eicketts, pp. 91, 92, is somewhat similar to
the last, but there is one important difference. The author's
father introduced the subject by referring to one Eicketts still
^ On receiving Miss Sands' letter I asked my communicators at a sitting
to help in the matter, telHng them the name. At a subsequent sitting many
evidential messages were given for Miss Sands. It was after this that I
first thought of inviting her to attend a sitting, and received the information
about her eyes. At this date I had not met Miss Sands for thirty years,
but Mrs. Sands had spent some hours with us a few years before her death.
—C. D. T.
2 If, as suggested by Dr. Osty, mediums find in mind reading an easy
source of information, it is difficult to account for the following facts which
I constantly observe with Mrs. Leonard
:
1. The frequent failure to give names, or words, which I am expecting
and which seem required for completion of the subject in hand. Such words
are more easily given when relating to something unknown to me or unex-
pected.
2. Particular items which one anticipates as likely to be given are often
passed over in favour of others which come as a surprise to me.
3. Considerable experience in taking notes for first-time sitters shows that
messages often come from imexpected communicators to the exclusion of the
desired communicators. Sometimes the wished-for person is finally asked
for by sitters, but in that case he rarely comes to the front, and, if
communicating at all, appears to be doing it through one of those who
have been previously speaking. It suggests to me that Feda cannot get a
good rapport with him and prefers to hold on to a previous speaker rather
than risk changing over to a direct contact with him. Sometimes, however,
the wished-for person is said not to be present.—C. D. T.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Makch, 1929
alive whom he had not known on earth, but whom the author
knew well, and saying that Ricketts had lost a relation about
two years ago. The author had not known of the death, but
verified it. The author's father said that he had got the
information from Ricketts's unconscious mind. This was
probably its source, and the question is whether the communi-
cator got it or Feda got it through the author.^
10. The case of the bag, pp. 99-101, is of a similar type.
His sister Etta asked at a sitting whether their mother had
recently received as a gift a bag which she described The
mother knew nothing of it when questioned, but received the
bag subsequently. Etta's explanation is that the giver's thought
reached the mother's subconscious mind where it was found by
Etta, enabling her to predict the gift. The alternative theory
is that Feda, getting into rapport with his mother through the
author, foimd the knowledge in her mind on the transcendental
plane. (Dr. Osty's phrase.)
11. Some cases of a diiTerent type follow, in which the
commtmicators told the author that they had seen discarnate
spirits and gave him information about them, previously
unknown to him, see pp. 101 et seq. The best of these relates
to his visit to Manchester, p. 102. He had spent an hour
there on a visit to a psychic student, and at the next seance
after his return home his father mentioned having seen the
spirit of a boy Tom at that house. A reference to the
student elicited the reply that there was a Tom whom the
description fitted and who since his decease had frequently
communicated with the family. The alternative to accepting
the author's father's story is to suppose that Feda got into
touch with the student's mind through the author, sensed his
feelings about Tom and dramatised the situation. The case of
the Americans on pp. 101, 102 hardly admits of such an
alternative, but it might be argued that Feda got into touch
with them through the author and read in their minds the
stories that mediums had told them. The information about
the case is however too vague, and the author's knowledge of the
Americans too slight, for much stress to be laid on the incident.
1 This name had not been mentioned before nor had it been at all pro-
minent in my mind.—C. D. T.
March, 1929 " Life Beyond Death with Evidence
"
55
12. In the Salisbuiy case, pp. 103, 104, the author's father
said that one Salisbury, recently deceased and unknown to him
on earth, wished to be remembered to the author's mother and
stated that he had been interested in old magazines. It was
known that a man of this name slightly acquainted with the
mother had recently died, but nothing about his hobby for old
magazines, a fact which was subsequently verified by enquiry.
The commimicator's story seems more probable than the theory
that Feda being in touch with the mother through the author
got somehow through her on to Salisbury's old memories. It
is hard to eliminate Salisbury's spirit from the picture.
13. In the medallion case, pp. 104, 105, a widower attended
a seance with the author and succeeded in getting into touch
with his wife. At the next seance the author's father said
that the wife had told him of the discovery of a medallion.
Reference was made to the husband who had not then heard
anything about it, but afterwards learnt that his mother-in-
law, who had recently changed her house, had found the
article, and that it had stood in his wife's room before her
marriage to him. Feda's clairvoyance might conceivably have
been the agency for the discovery, but the chain linking her
with the mother-in-law and the wife's property is very weak.
14. In spite of his arguments in Chapter XI. the author
apparently recognises that book-tests may be ascribed to the
medium's clairvoyance and therefore attaches more weight to
newspaper tests,^ p. 138. The procedure described there is so
well known that the description need not be repeated here.
The test containing " Shooter's Hill," p. 139, is a good instance.
This was the name which fitted the " light " (in an acrostic
sense)
—" an address suggesting being on a hill " reminding the
communicator of a place where he had lived and " acquired
a different official standing." He had lived on a hill at
r Ilfracombe and had there been given the post of District
Secretary.
^ There have been certain book tests for which I find no possible explana-
tion in the medium's clairvoyance, however far extended. One example is
that quoted on pages 23-27 of my former book, Some New Evidence for
Human Survival. It relates to my father's memories of Toddington, and,
as I consider, contains good evidence for his identity.—C. D. T.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech, 1929
15. On pp. 139, 140 is the "May" test. In a particular
part of the page is to be found a name " like that of people
with whom your mother has recently renewed friendship." A
reference to his mother elicited the fact that an old friend, a
Mrs. May, had recently revisited the town. Search was then
made for the name May and it was found at the indicated place.
16. On pp. 142-144 is the Ray case. The author was told
to look for the name of a man just dead about whom he had
been talking lately. He could not think who was meant, but
on coming home that evening heard that a Mr. Ray had died
whose name would fit the test. The next day's Times contains
the word " Ray " in the described place. At the next sitting
he tried to get the name through Feda, but she could not say
it, and he argues from the failure that she cannot read his
mind readily, so he discounts this explanation of her powers in
other types of cases.
17. On pp. 145, 146 is the Poole and Streatham case, these
names fitted the direction to look for the name of an old friend
of the author's wife and of a place associated with the friend.
The information about Streatham may have been drawn by
his communicators from the wife's mind, as they probably did
not know it in their lifetime.
18. On pp. 149-151 are a number of instances of facts stated
in connection with newspaper tests, which facts were within
the knowledge of the communicator when on earth but were not
all of them known by the author. These pages deserve study.
19. These tests depend on some kind of predictive clair-
voyance, a process with which it is equally difficult to credit
Feda or the communicators, but the knowledge of the past
which the tests fit could have been obtained by her only by
drawing on the minds of the author and his mother. That
all this wealth of detail concerning forgotten occurrences could
have been available to her in this way pari passu with the
forecasting of the next day's paper is almost inconceivable,
whereas it seems natural that the communicators with their
memories at hand may have had events recalled by the entries
in the paper.
20. In Chapter XV. the author gives some reasons for
considering Feda to be " an individual quite distinct from the
March, 1929 " Life Beyond Death with Evidence
"
57
medium thxougli whom she speaks," p. 165. On p. 163 he
tells a story of her having spoken to Mrs. Leonard at a direct
voice seance, giving Mrs. Leonard a message for him which
she (Feda) subsequently expanded at his next sitting with
Mrs. Leonard. It does not seem likely, though in the present
state of knowledge it is rash to declare it impossible, that if
Feda is a secondary personality of Mrs. Leonard they can talk
to each other when Mrs. Leonard is sitting with another
medium. On p. 164 there is a rather intricate account of
Feda's messages about a cat. Feda spoke about it through
Mrs. Leonard and in the absence of Mrs. Leonard at a sitting
for direct voice. It would be interesting to know what Mrs.
Leonard was doing at the time of that seance, but unfor-
tunately even the date seems to have been forgotten. In
Chapter XIX. the author mentions other incidents which
point to Feda being quite independent of his commimicators.
There have been occasions on which his father was trying to
tell him something through Feda which she could not grasp
though he himself could guess what liis father wished to con-
vey. On p. 191 he says that he has heard Feda whispering
to his father before begimiing her opening remarks and has
caught references to topics afterwards discussed at the sitting. This
resembles a natural occurrence rather than a dramatised fiction.
21. The author has some chapters on the process of com-
munication as described by Feda and the communicators. Dr.
Osty also discusses this subject, but deals at greater length
with the source from which in his opinion metagnomic
percipience draws information and with the conditions and
limitations of its action. His remarks on these points may to
a great extent be accepted tentatively by those spiritualists
who believe that the operating agency is always the medium's
powers and that the spirits' part, where there is spirit influence,
is mainly the direction and guidance of those powers. Ac-
cording to the animistic theory the part attributed to spirits
is really taken by the medium consciously or subconsciously
or by a secondary personality or some complex of the medium
and sitter. Absolute proof is impossible in the present state
of knowledge, but in the cases quoted, and indeed in many
others narrated in Mr. Drayton Thomas's book, appearances
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1929
certainly seem to favour the spiritistic explanation. The author
lays great stress on the realistic aspect of the three person-
alities, Feda, his father, and his sister. The situation seems to
extend beyond any field that may reasonably be assigned to
subliminal dramatisation.
22. Dr. Osty on p. 114 of his work regards spiritualistic
practices as simply facilitating the conditions for the exercise
of metagnomic powers in a similar way to the effect of hyp-
notism or crystal gazing. He considers that mediums mistake
" the mental hallucinatory image of the deceased for a real
phantasmal manifestation," p. 133, and that one of his
spiritualist percipients mimics the gestures of the deceased in
a way that simulates possession, pp. 156, 157. He holds that
" controls " owe their origin to the subconsciousness of the
medium which fabricates a fixed or variable personality, pp.
202, 203. His view about communications concerning
the conditions of the after-life is that they are based on the
original mistake of the medium in regarding a hallucinatory
image as real. " The percipient speaks to his apparition
(which is an excellent way of getting information upon it) and
he attributes the mental informing images that he gets in reply
to conscious inspiration from the dead. Hence too come those
dialogues between mediums and defunct entities which often
result in supernormal cognitions, but more often in mediocre
romances on the after-life "
(p. 133).
He does not explain the inconsistency on the part of the
medium in giving true information about the earth life of the
deceased and nothing but fiction about his fate after death.
If one set of statements contains truth why should the other
be disbelieved in whole 1 There is striking unanimity between
" defunct ''
entities in statements of the latter kind ; that
similar descriptions have been given in many countries through
mediums of many races and many periods is a strong point in
their favour. Nor does Dr. Osty take account of mediums
imder control speaking or writing foreign languages normally
unknown to them or of their displaying intellectual powers and
technical knowledge far beyond their normal capacity.
23. Dr. Osty does not give cases to illustrate his views of
the fiction underlying spiritistic phenomena. Incidentally he
M ABCH, 192;) " Life Beyond Death, with Evidence
"
59
mentions one of his own experiences on pp. 127, 128. A
deceased person was correctly described by a spiritualistic
medium and when asked for proof of identity said that Dr.
Osty had stopped his smoking. In a foot-note the Doctor
says that if the communicator had really been the deceased
he could have given much better evidence. But the remark
about smoking was true, and any better point that might have
been made would have come from the same source and might
have been discounted by him on the lines of the arguments
in his book. According to Chap. XVII. of Mr. Drayton
Thomas's book communicators are apt to forget many of their
earth memories during a seance.
24. Dr. Osty does not allude to the colour given to the
spiritistic theory by phenomena of other kinds than those
which he describes ; for instance, direct voice and supernormal
photography. In fact, as far as his book shows, he has not
studied the question sufficiently to be justified in giving a
positive opinion. He has done valuable work in showing that
the mental phenomena which he has observed are really
genuine and in elaborating theories which account for them up
to a certain point. But until his material embraces other
kinds of psychic phenomena, and he pays adequate attention
to the strongest points of the spiritistic case, researchers who
differ from him will not attach weight to his decision against
spiritualism. There is another matter on which he may see
fit to modify his opinion. In several passages of his book he
has expressed himself unfavourably towards researchers with
spiritualistic views and seems to regard them as unscientific.
If he ever reads Mr. Drayton Thomas's book he will perhaps
acknowledge that it is a record of useful and critical work.
CORRESPONDENCE.
" The Scripts of Cleophas."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.K.
Dear Madam,—With reference to your reviewer's comment on
The Scripts of Cleophas (Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 394).
The title of " politaich " occurs in a well-known inscription,
Brit. Mus. No. 171, which owing to its popular appeal, through
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research makch, 192&
containing a word used in the Book of the Acts, has been re-
produced in post-card form and this post-card is exhibited for
sale in the Museum entrance hall.
Miss Cummins may very well have seen either the original
inscription or, more likely, the post-card with its accompanying
explanation of the word " politaichs," and then have forgotten
she had ever seen it while still keejping a subliminal recollection.
Yours faithfully,
J. A. Spranger.
Eeply by Miss Cummins.
Thank you for forwarding Mr. Spranger's letter. I have visited
the British Museum twice in my life in the year 1920 or 192L
I went to the library in order to copy two stories of mine (pub-
lished in the Pall Mall Magazine) as I had destroyed the original
manuscript and had failed to obtain a back number of the
magazine. This special purpose occupied me during my two visits.
I have not been there at any other time. It is possible of course
that I may have seen the original inscription or the post-card.
I have no recollection of ever having done so.
It may be a point of interest to your readers to state that the
Editors speak of the curious resemblance of the " Scripts " to the
Apocryphal Acts and the Clementine Recognitions. I have never
read these works, and with regard to the last mentioned, I had
never heard of the book until the typescript of the Foreword was
sent to me to read.
Yours faithfully,
Geraldine Cummins.
[Note.—The inscription in question is exhibited in a bay to the
right of the main entrance hall of the British Museum. It is not
obviously visible to any one entering or leaving the Museum. In
January 1929 the post-card was not exhibited on the stand, but,
after a little^ delay, was produced on demand.
—
Ed.]
ERRATUM.
On p. 18 of the January Journal, end of paragraph 2, in
consequence of the misreading of a figure, the date of Dr. Barthez'
letter was wrongly given as 1854. The date should be 1857.
The correction is of some importance, as Home's first visit to
Paris did not take place till 1856.
No. 454.—Vol. XXV. Apkil, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
[ NOTICE OF MEETING.
I
-—
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
J THE CENTRAL HALL (The Small Hall),
WESTMINSTER
(Opposite Westminster Abbey),
: ON
MONDAY, May 6th, 1929, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" On the Asserted Difficulty of the SpirituaUstic
;
Hypothesis from a Scientific Point of View"
,
'
•'
. WILL BE READ BY
'
Sir OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.
N.B. — Visitors will be admitted m production of an invitation card
signed by a Member or Associate. Members and Associates will be
admitted on signing their names at the door.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
NEW MEMBEES
Elected February 20th, 1929.
Blennerhassett, Mrs. Richard, 52 Hans Place, London, S.W. I.
Wells, Miss Ida G. T., 19 Albert Road, Eccles, Manchester.
Elected March 7th, 1929.
Gale, Mrs., 88 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 11.
MacDonell, Mrs., 40a King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Smith, Marion, 80 11th Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 257tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday, February 20th, 1929, at
6.15 p.m., The President in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. Theodore Besterman, Miss Ina Jephson, The Hon.
Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, D.B.E., Mr. W. H. Salter, Mr. S. G.
Soal, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also. Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were
read and signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting and of the Extra-
ordinary General Meeting, held on January 31st, were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The following motion, on the death of Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing, was passed
:
" The Council have received with much regret the news of
the death of Baron A. von Schrenck-Notzing, who had been a
Corresponding Member of the Society for forty years, and they
desixe to express to Baroness von Schrenck-Notzing their deep
sympathy in her loss."
The 258th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, March 7th, 1929, at
12.45 p.m., The President in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. Theodore Besterman, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr. W. H.
Apbil, 1929 Meetings of the Council 63
Salter, IVIrs. Salter, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, J\Iiss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
'
The Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting, held on
February 20th, were read and signed as correct.
Three new members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the
year 1929-1930 : Mr. Theodore Besterman, Dr. William Brown,
Mr. J. Arthur Hill, Professor Julian Huxley, IVIiss Ina Jephson,
The Hon. Airs. Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr. W. Whately
Smith, and IVIr. S. G. Soal.
The Monthly Accounts for January and February, 1929, were
presented and taken as read.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF THE
SOCIETY.
An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.L, on Wednesday, February
20th, 1929, at i p.m.. The President in the chair.
There were also present : Mrs. W. W. Baggally (by proxy), Mr.
Theodore Besterman, ]\Irs. Brackenbury, Mr. G. B. Brown, Mrs.
Carpenter, Miss H. Carruthers, IMrs. J. R. Davis, Lady Dewar,
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Mrs. Dingwall, IVIiss E. Dingwall, Mrs.
Enthoven, Mr. Fonnereau, Miss K. Foot, Mrs. George, Captain
Basil Hall, Mrs. Hannen, Miss Ina Jephson, Mrs. Mackeson,
Miss McDougall, Miss Newton, Mrs. Osmaston, Miss Parsons,
Mrs. Robertson, Mrs. Rothschild, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Salter,
Mr. S. C. Scott, Mr. Montgomery Smith, Mr. S. G. Soal, Miss
Swainson, Miss Taylor, Mr. J. M. Thorburn, Mr. Vinen, Mr.
Max West, and Dr. V. J. Woolley.
Miss Perkins and Mrs. Swinburne (Associates) were also
present, but took no part in the discussion and did not vote.
Notice of the Meeting and the Minutes of the previous Extra-
ordinary Meeting, held on January 31st, were read.
The Resolution passed at that Meeting was submitted for
confirmation as a Special Resolution, and after some discussion,
a2
€'4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
in which Mr. Dingwall spoke at length, the Resolution was
carried on a show of hands by a large majority.
Mrs. Dingwall thereupon demanded a Poll, and her demand
being supported by sufficient other Members, a Poll was taken
forthwith, 26 Members voting for the confirmation of the Reso-
lution and 8 against it. The Chairman then declared the
Resolution carried.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
The 100th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Library of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C., on Wednes-
day, February 20th, 1929, at 5 p.m.. The President in the chair.
Mr. Theodore Besterman read a paper, entitled " An
Informal Account of a Four Months' Journey of Psychical
Investigation on the Continent," which it is hoped will be
published later in Proceedings.
The 101st Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the same place on Wednesday,
March 6th, 1929, at 5.30 p.m., The President in the chair.
Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh read a paper entitled " A Report on
the Investigation of Some Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott."
A discussion followed, in which Mrs. Warren Elliott, who was
present by invitation, Colonel Maxwell Dick, Miss A. V. Dutton,
Rev. J. W. Hayes, Mr. G. R. Mead, Mr. A. H. Strawson, and
others took part.
It is hoped that the full Report of this investigation will be
published later in Proceedings.
OBITUARY NOTICES.
Freiherr Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
It is with much regret that we have to record the death in
February last, after an operation, of Freiherr Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing, who was for about forty years a Corresponding
Member of this Society. Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing first
became known in this country for his work in connexion with
April, 1929 Obituary Notices 65
hypnotism and therapeutic suggestion, later becoming interested
in the mental phenomena of psychical research. In 1891 he
contributed to the Society's Proceedings, Vol. VIL, a very
interesting paper on " Experimental Studies in Thought-
Transference."
In the latter part of his life, however, he was almost ex-
clusively interested in physical phenomena, and became the
protagonist in Germany of the school of thought which affirms
the reality of these phenomena. He had a wide experience
with many physical mediums, particularly Eva C. and Willi
and Kudi Schneider. He was the author of numerous books
on hvpnotism. abnormal psychology, and psychical research, of
which the best known are Materialisations-Phaenomene (1914 ;
2nd enlarged edition, 1923) ;
Physikalische Phaenomene des
Mediumismus (1920) ;
Experimente der Fembewegung (1924).
This phase of his activity is represented in the Society's Pro-
ceedings by an article, " Concerning the Possibility of Decep-
tion in Sittings with Eva C," Vol. XXXIII. Several of his
books have been translated into English, French, and other
languages.
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing was a prominent figure at the
various International Congresses for Psychical Research and
exercised his great influence to ensure that these Congresses
should be truly international. Those of our Members who
attended the first International Congress at Copenhagen, held
shortly after the war. will have the most pleasant recollections
of his dignified courtesy. On various occasions he and his
wife extended hospitality to Members of this Society visiting
Mimich and gave them facilities for observing phenomena in
his well-equipped laboratory. It was as a result of the obser-
vations made by Mr. E. J. Dingwall in this laboratory in 1922
that Willi Schneider was invited to come to this country and
gave the series of sittings reported on in Proceedings, Vol.
XXXVI. More recently in the autumn of 1928 Dr. von
Schrenck-Xotzing invited various Members of the Society,
including the Hon. Research Officer, Dr. WooUey, to a series
of sittings at which they had an opportunity of studying the
ingenious electrical apparatus designed by the late Karl Krall
for the automatic control of physical mediums.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
Concerning Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's position in Germany
Professor Hans Driesch writes as follows :
His influence upon psychical research has been very great in
this country, he has been the most popular representative of this
science. And his sincerity has never been doubted, though there
are a good many who believe that he has probably been deceived
in the first period of his investigations (Eva. C). During his
work with the Schneiders his methods were continuously improved
and, as far as I can judge, are almost perfect now.
In any case Baron Schrenck has been a man who occupies quite
a definite and prominent place in the history of science.
Mr. Francis W. Percival.
We regret to note the death of Mr. Francis W. Percival, who
was associated with the Society in its very early years and
was one of the original members of Council named in the
Constitution of 1882.
CASE.
P. 297. An Apparently Premonitory Apparition.
The following paragraph appeared in the Daily Express for
January 19, 1929, under the heading " Premonition of Death."
A remarkable instance of a premonition of death has occurred
at Worcester.
Mr. W. Kent, of Foley Road, Worcester, manager for many
years of a large furniture shop here, left his work on Monday,
after saying to his head salesman that he would die this week.
He said that he was sleeping in the bed in which his wife
died shortly before Christmas. He awakened in the night.
" When I woke up I saw my wife," said Mr. Kent according
to the salesman. " She seemed quite happy. She beckoned to
me, walked across the room and vanished.
"I knew what she meant."
Mr. Kent died a few days later.
On January 23rd, 1929, Mrs. Brackenbury wrote to the special
correspondent of the Daily Express at Worcester, asking if she
April, 1929 Case 67
could be put into touch with the head salesman mentioned in
the above paragraph. Eventually Mrs. Brackenbury obtained
from the salesman, Mr. Barker, the following statement
:
Jan. 29th, 1929.
I am in receipt of your letter of the 28th inst., and should
only be too pleased to offer you any assistance I can, as I am
myself greatly interested in your Society. The article in the
Daily Express was not quite correct and I informed them so.
I was a personal friend of Mr. Kent and have known him, also
Mrs. Kent, for 5 years. The full story would take me too long
to write. He did not make any statement that he would die
at any stated time. When he was a young man he had an
attack of rheumatic fever, this left him with a displaced heart.
He was healthy in every respect, except, that he always took
life seriously and quietly; he was a very good living man, but
did not visit any place of worship, although he was a very
learned man as regards scripture, and could quote any problem,
and practically any sentence from the Bible ; he like myself was
a member of the Loyal Orange Institution, also the Grand Black
Chapter, and a Freemason. He met his wife a then school-
mistress in Huddersfield, and they were married 36 years ago
last Xmas Eve. They have always lived a life of devotion to
each other, and solely and wholly for each other. Mrs. Kent
died just before Xmas, after 11 weeks illness, from diseased nerves.
Before she died she asked him not to be long before he followed
her, and stated she would come to him. He told me every day
during her illness that if she died he would soon follow her.
After her death he bucked up tremendously, and I have never
known him to be so happy and cheerful. And I may state
here that I was in his full confidence and his friend, to whom
he always opened his heart.
On Monday, Jan. 14th, we arrived at business together at
9 a.m., and he seemed upset, and told me the following story :
He said since Mrs. Kent's death he had lain in the same bed
in the same room and always kept a nice fire (this is the front
downstairs sitting-room), he was lying wide awake for some time,
and about 2 a.m., Monday 14th, he heard the plain rustle of a
woman's skirt, he turned his head towards the door and was
surprised to see Mrs. Kent walk into the room.
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apkil, 1929
She walked straight to the fireplace, he watched her for a
few seconds, and then got out of bed and went to her, as he
reached the fireplace she vanished.
Having finished his story he turned to me and said, " Mr.
Barker, it is a premonition, she has come for me." This he
repeated twice again to me during the morning. The rest of
the day we were kept very busy together with business, until
6.30 p.m., when he left me, very cheerful indeed and apparently
in the best of health. At 10.15 p.m. the same night he was
seized with a sudden heart attack. I was not able to see him,
as he was too ill, until 9.30 a.m. on Wednesday 20th. I found
him very ill, but greatly improved from the attack. He said
to me, " Oh, Mr. Barker, I'm going, Mary came for me Sunday
night." I laughed this off, and the next few minutes he told
me he would be back at work after a few days rest. On the
same afternoon about 4 p.m. he had another sudden attack,
followed by still another heart attack at 4 a.m., Thursday 21st,.
from which he never recovered.
Mr. Kent had no children and does not leave any friends tO'
whom you could communicate. . . . His full name was Thomas
Kent, age 64. . . . George S. Barker.
It will be seen from Mr. Barker's statement that there is nO'
clear evidence here of anything prophetic. Mrs. Kent's sugges-
tion to her husband, shortly before her death that he should
join her before long, would be likely to rouse in Mr. Kent's
mind an idea that his own death might not be much delayed,
and obviously in the case of a man suffering from a misplaced
heart an additional strain or shock of any kind, such as the
loss of his wife, might be just sufficient to bring on an attacks
It is possible that Mr. Kent's vision of his wife in the early
morning of January 14th was due entirely to his wife's sug-
gestion that she would " come to him." But it seems equally
likely that the vision was partly due to the externalisation of
some subconscious knowledge in Mr. Kent's mind as to his own
precarious physical condition and the imminence of a severe
heart attack.
Whatever the true explanation may be, the case is interesting^
and instructive, psychologically, if not psychically, aud is there-
fore worth putting on record here.
Apkil, 1929 Reviews 69
'
' KEVIEWS.
I. The Evidential Value of Certain Mediumistic Phenomena. By
E. J. Dingwall. Psyche, October 1928.
This article is in fact an attack on the work of a group (as
Mr. Dingwall calls it) of S.P.R. workers who have published
somewhat largely in our Proceedings, but whose methods as
psychical researchers have not had the good fortune to meet
with Mr. Dingwall's approval. The particular cases he has
selected for comment seem to be three in number : (a) A series
of cross-correspondences expounded by Mr. J. G. Piddington in
a paper entitled " One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life " (see
Proceedings, vol. xxxvi. p. 345) ; (6) a case called The One-
Horse Dawn Experiment," begun as an experiment in thought-
transference, but with some curious developments (see Mrs. Verrall's
original account, Proceedings, vol. xx. and subsequent papers by
Mr. Piddington and Sir Oliver Lodge in Proceedings, vol. xxx.
pp. 175, 291, and 296) ; and (c) the experiments in thought-
transference of Professor Gilbert Murray {Proceedings, xxix. p. 64,
and xxxiv. pp. 212, 336—I myself being responsible for the
editing of the two later series). I give these references fully
because I do not propose to discuss Mr. Dingwall's article in
detail, but should advise any persons interested in the subject,
not to be satisfied with his somewhat sketchy and inadequate
accounts of the evidence, but to refer to the original papers and
judge for themselves what the evidence amounts to.
Mr. Dingwall's article seems to have been put together some-
what carelessly or hastily. I notice, for example, that he states
on p. 40 apropos of cross-correspondences that " Unfortunately
the greatest secrecy has been observed with regard to the
identity of the various automatists. They are known under
different pseudonyms. . .
." Now to the best of my beUef
there have been ten automatists concerned in cross-correspon-
dences published under the auspices of members of " the group
"
—four writing under pseudonyms (viz. the Macs, Mrs. Forbes,
Mrs. Holland, and Mrs. Willett), and six writing in their own
names (viz. Mrs. Frith, Mrs. Lyttelton,^ Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Salter,
Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Stuart Wilson). But of these the Macs, Mrs,
1 Mrs. Lyttelton wrote as "Mrs. King" ,at first, but allowed her real name
to be published in 1923. . ..
VO Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
Forbes, and Mrs. Frith come but very slightly into the question
of cross-correspondences. Omitting these for the purposes of the
present discussion we have two automatists writing under pseu-
donyms (Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Willett) and five writing under
their own names. I am sorry we cannot relieve Mr. Dingwall
of the burden of this amount of anonymity, but I think it will
be agreed that it is hardly a fair description of it to say that
" the greatest secrecy has been observed with regard to the
identity of the various automatists." It is understood of course
that there is no concealment of the identity of any of the
automatists from those sponsoring the publication of their scripts.
However, this is something of a digression, as what I am
specially concerned to discuss on this occasion, if the editor will
allow me space, are certain conditions of investigation of tele-
pathy, cross-correspondences, and the mental side of psychical
research generally, which I thmk it important to bear in mind
and which Mr. Dingwall seems sometimes to overlook. In such
experiments and observations there is the inevitable condition
that we have to deal with human minds, not with machines or
chemical reactions, and that therefore we can never repeat ex-
periments exactly. It is this, besides the comparative variety
of the phenomena in an observable form, that makes progress
in psychical research so slow. Not being able to repeat exactly,
we can only accumulate evidence which, though not perfect, is
as good as we can get, and comparing one case with another
gradually discover perhaps what elements are essential and what
not essential to the results. It is with this object that we are
anxious to collect as many cases, experimental and spontaneous,
as we can. And it is with this object that we sometimes, I
fear, bore our fellow members by urging them to contribute
their share to the investigation by sending us particulars of any
case they hear of. No single experiment being in itself crucial
or conclusive, and none being exactly repeatable, we require
many slightly varying ones to convince the world. And, as a
matter of fact, it is in this way that the world is gradually
becoming convinced of the existence of, e.g., telepathy. The
attitude towards it now is very different from what it was when
our Society was founded.
It is worth noticing that the kind of evidence on which our
conclusions in psychical research are likely to be based is like-
April, 1929 Reviews n
wise the kind used in historical investigation, in legal investi-
gation, and in a great deal of scientific investigation, and is also
the kind by which we in fact conduct our ordinary mundane
affairs. But in psychical research we suffer from a special diffi-
culty, namely, that the facts our evidence has to establish are
unusual facts—they are not the sort of fact which we instinc-
tively recognise as being as likely to be true as not. For this
sort of recognition familiarity is required, and here again the
rarity of our phenomena makes our progress slow.
If it be asked why, if telepathy occurs at all, experiments in
which a prescribed programme is exactly carried out cannot be
produced ; one obvious answer is to point to our ignorance
about the telepathic process. A., for instance, who tries to
transmit an idea to B. otherwise than through the channels of
sense, sometimes succeeds, but does not know how he does it,
or what circumstances, mental or external, help or hinder.
Similarly B., who sometimes receives the intended idea otherwise
than through his senses, does not know how it comes to him.
This does not surprise me, because we have so little control over
our mental processes. Who, for instance, has not struggled
vainly to remember something—say a name—which he is certain
he knows. He fails at the time but later, perhaps the next day,
when he has ceased to think about it, it comes into his mind,
apropos of nothing so far as he can judge. Whence came the
difficulty ?
All this is not intended to suggest that we should not, aided
by the sensitive, secure the best conditions we can, and still
less that we should not record the conditions that do obtain,
with as much care as we can. But do not let us reject, or
regard with undue suspicion, all experiments that are not eviden-
tially perfect in a mechanical sense.
And this brings me to another result of our inability to repeat
experiments exactly. It is that the value of the evidence de-
pends inevitably on the bona fides of the persons concerned.
We cannot escape this. Of course, as in ordinary life, if you
know a man (or woman) personally, know the character and
reputation he bears, know his work, and know his friends, you
can form a good judgment as to whether he is likely to deceive
you intentionally. A judgment so formed is not necessarily
infallible. Very occasionally in ordinary life a trusted friend
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apek,, 1920'
fails us and proves unworthy of the trust placed in him. But
this is very rare, and we do not find it necessary to view all
persons we have to deal with with suspicion—indeed, civilised
life could hardly be carried on if we did. But of course we
cannot transfer intact to the outside public, our own confidence
in the probity of this or that person sharing in our experiment
—nor indeed in our own. As Dr. Henry Sidgwick said in an
early presidential address to our Society (July 18th, 1883,
Proc. vol. i. p. 250), " All records of experiments must depend^
ultimately, on the probity and intelligence of the persons recording
them ; and it is impossible for us, or any other investigators, to
demonstrate to persons who do not know us that we are not
idiotically careless or consciously mendacious. We can only hope
that within the limited circle in which we are known, either alter-
native will be regarded as highly improbable."
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
II. Vintras, hcresiarque el prophete. By Maurice Garqon. Paris,
Librairie critique Emile Nourry. 1928. 191 pages.
This book is interesting, though the seriously-minded psychical
researcher will glean from it but little. Those phenomena or
performances of the " heresiarch " which Maitre Gar9on narrates :
alleged automatic writing and messages purporting to come from
the highest religious entities of the Beyond (including St. Joseph,
promoted by Vintras commander of a special Order of Knights in
honour of the Virgin Mary [p. 98]), visions, " apports " and bleed-
ings of Hosts, etc., have about them nothing evidential. Still
other authorities have been inclined to attribute to Vintras
levitations of Satanic origin ^
; and on the whole, and though
M. Gar9on thinks him an impostor, it is of course possible that
if genuine mediumship or something like it exists, the Tilly-sur-
Seulle " prophet " may have been one of the privileged few.
With the religious schism which Pierre-Eugene-Michel Vintras
(1807-1875) created in the Roman Catholic Church of France, his
prosecution, his imprisonment, his relations with Naundorf (the
soi-disant Louis XVII. denounced by Pope Gregory XVI. as the
" son of perdition "
[p. 92]), etc., we are not concerned here. This
very brief notice will therefore suffice. I should like, however,
1 E.g., M. 0. Leroy in La Levitation.
April, 1929 Reviews 73
before parting with an attractive little book to call attention to
the strange occurrences at Agen in the thirties related by the
writer on pp. 53-57. Here we have inter alia a case of alleged
possession of a young woman, with, again, soi-disant " apports
"
of Hosts, as many as eighty on a single day. With these inci-
dents Vintras is not connected. I certainly think they were frau-
dulent—and yet, should they ever occur again, Psychical Research
would not, in my opinion, be justified in ignoring them or re-
jecting them de piano without investigation. P.-P.-S.
III. The Felicia Scatcherd Memorial Lecture, 1928. By Stanley
De Brath. Is.
The choice of Mr. Stanley De Brath to deliver the first of the
lectures instituted to perpetuate Miss Scatcherd's memory was a
happy one, in view both of their long association in psychic
matters and the similarity of their convictions.
In Mr. De Brath's view the " physical phenomena " are an
essential part of the case for Spiritualism, and the first part of
his lecture is devoted to an affirmation of the credibility of these
phenomena. He then outlines a sketch of evolution, inorganic,,
organic and human, and discusses the bearing of the ideoplastic
theory on science and religion.
Many of our members who knew Miss Scatcherd will be glad to
obtain a copy of this lecture.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Method in Psychical Investigation.
[During a recent visit to Berlin I had the pleasure of a lengthy
conversation with Professor Christoph Schroder, the head of the
Institut fiir Metapsychikalische Forschung. Among other subjects
we discussed the problem of method in psychical investigation.
Professor Schroder had for some months past been vigorously
criticising the methods of the S.P.R. in Continental periodicals
with restricted circulations. I therefore suggested to Professor
Schroder that it would be useful to students of psychical research
in general if he would formulate his objections to the Society's
methods in a letter to the Journal. On my return to London I
repeated this invitation, and in response Professor Schroder ad-
dressed the following letter to me. Theodore Besterman.]
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
Deab Sir,—. . .
If in our conversation I repeatedly stressed my disagreement
with you, nevertheless it would not have been a subject of any
doubt to you that my disagreement is based on purely objective
considerations arising out of my scientific work and experience,
which, for the rest, are extensive. Even if you do not reckon
Wallace and Crookes, for instance, among the founders of the
S.P.R. but only amongst the oldest members, yet it cannot be
disputed that from the first scientific members of your Society
have championed the reality of paraphysical ^ phenomena, and to-
day are still doing so. The S.P.R., however, to judge from its
utterances, includes to-day mainly men who have doubts about
this reality owing to an attitude taken up by them, to a certain
extent, that is, on principle, and who direct their investigations
only to conjuring or fraud.
This method I cannot but describe most emphatically as a
wrong one, and one that is a danger to any progress. It seems
to me to presume too far in its judgment of the carefulness in
observation shown by the other men in the same Society and by
other investigators ; I cannot, moreover, see any advantage for
research if some members of the Society, or even a majority in
it (perhaps after a vote has been taken on scientific investiga-
tions !) should have found themselves convinced of the genuineness
of paraphysical phenomena.
I laid stress on the view that the problem of the genuineness
of the phenomena, even if the aim of the investigation, as it must
be before any further test, can no longer be the only object of
investigation. The experiment must have as its aim to obtain
phenomena which are shown to be genuine after a detailed ex-
amination, and which will enable us gradually to attain an insight
into their energetic foundations. This I have already shown by
means of a striking example taken from Frau Rudloff's meta-genetic
drawing phenomena (Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung for February).
The S.P.R. reviewer is evidently lacking in physio-anatomical
knowledge, in the knowledge of plasma structure, and of its
peculiar chemico-physical properties, needed to appreciate the im-
portance of the investigation carried out at the Kaiser Wilhelm
Institute. And probably he is lacking in the goodwill to make
1 [I use this word to translate the term metapsyehikalisch, coined by Prof.
Schroder. Th. B.]
April, 1929 Correspondence 75
objective reports owing to his prejudiced attitude against para-
physical phenomena.
Further, so far as tests for genuineness are to be regarded, or
are regarded, as needful, it is an utter stagnation in method to
base them always on subjective impressions only, as happens, and
must always more or less happen, in the case of the gentlemen
sent travelling round by the S.P.R. What is needed is to make,
with the most up-to-date means, objective registrations of the
proceedings at the sittings, both accoustically and optically. And
these records must cover the whole " sitting " without a break.
That is my method, particularly the method of kinematography
in the dark, a process on whose perfecting I have spent several
years and much money. On this see Zeitschrift filr Psychische
Forschung for September 1927.
This method of work is naturally very much more difficult than
the other, which studies paraphysical phenomena only from the
standpoint of expert conjuring. This means doing the same thing,
using the same methods, as was already customary fifty, sixty or
seventy years ago. Science, it may be added, has not remained
at the standpoint of that time. This attitude is, in my opinion,
unworthy of an important Society.
Psychics will win general scientific recognition only when it
produces scientific results by scientific methods, and particularly
is this so in the paraphysical field which is here in question.
And having a particularly high esteem for the S.P.R. I feel that
I may hope that it will join with me in this view. Then the
possibilities of joint work would follow as a natural result.
Of course the refusal some years ago of a request to the S.P.R.
has nothing to do with my objective judgment, even though I
could, or had to, see in this an unfriendly action. For it should
be well enough known even abroad under what difficult conditions
German science works to-day. This is in no wise disproved that to-day
in Germany there are still some illiberal rich men, as you implied.
It would surely not have been so very great a sacrifice if the
S.P.R. had put at the disposal of the Library of the Institute a
complete set of the Proceedings, and of the Journal, reserving its
rights of ownership, so as to serve the cause of research. Mean-
while I have the Proceedings except for the recent years, but
nothing of the Journal. With friendly greetings,
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) Schroder.
'
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, i929
[Note.—With regard to Professor Schroder's reference to the refusal
of a request he made to this Society, the facts are as follows :
In 1924 Professor Schroder asked the Council to exchange the
Society's Proceedings with a Handbuch der Entomologie. The
Council agreed to the exchange provisionally for a year. At the
end of this time they did not feel able to continue the arrange-
ment, but they presented Professor Schroder with eight volumes
of Proceedings to complete a set, the other volumes of which he
had already obtained elsewhere. They suggested that if Professor
Schroder desired to obtain future Parts of Proceedings, either he
or some other member of the Institute he had recently established
should join the Society.
The Council have in recent years received a considerable number
of requests for gifts or exchanges of Proceedings. It is not pos-
sible to accede to all these requests, but each one of them has
been carefully considered and judged, according to the best of the
Council's ability, on its merits.
—
Ed.'\
NOTES ON PERIODICALS. "
Die Medizinische Welt, 1928, 5.
Count Klinckowstroem has a paper on " The Crisis in Occultism,"
dealing with the mediumistic exposures of the last few years.
Particular importance seems to be attached by him to the Vinton
investigation at Braunau, in the Schneider circle (Psyche, April
1927). The tone of the paper is sceptical throughout.
L'Aventure (November, December, 1928, January, 1929).
M. Paul Heuze prints a paper entitled " What is to be thought
of spiritistic phenomena ?
" He inclines to believe in the genuine-
ness of some of the mental phenomena, but is thoroughly sceptical
as to the physical manifestations. In the long list of exposures
quoted Sambor is mentioned, it being asserted that he was helped
by an accomplice and that I detected the fraud ; in this form the
statement is incorrect. The argument that many things now of
everyday occurrence would have been thought impossible two
centuries ago by all men of common sense is met in the following
way : all these things, M. Heuze says (flying through the air,
talking to a man a thousand kilometres away, listening to a dead
April, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 77
person's voice, etc.), are just as impossible, strictly speaking, now
as before, " a moins de trues." The discoveries in question have
therefore consisted, the writer asserts, in discovering the trick, not
in finding out new "human faculties'." Man is just as incapable
now as he was before, as he will be to-morrow, to listen to a
dead man's voice, or to see through a wooden board, but the
" trick " has been suppHed by the gramophone, by radiography,
etc. M. Heuze's retort, is not, I think, irrefutable, but is certainly
interesting, though I suspect him of using the word " trick " in a
somewhat ambiguous sense.
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique.
January, 1929.
In a long paper entitled " The two great factors of existence
and of the world's evolution," M.M. Rutot and Schaerer discuss
" two great creative and directing principles " underlying the
Cosmos, the first being the physical factor, " based on cinetic or
material and unconscious realisation," the second being called the
psychical factor ; the latter has " a co-ordinating basis, capable of
becoming volitional " through accession to consciousness. M. Rutot
thinks Dr. Fukurai's experiments in Japan afford a confirmation of
iis and M. Schaerer's theoretical conclusions.
A case of spirit identity occurring at a seance held in August
last is described. If we could be completely certain of the good
faith of all the persons present (only two initials are mentioned
in this connection, the sitters being altogether five in number) and
if we could exclude cryptomnesia, we should certainly have here a
very striking case. But these ifs " remind us but too well of
the evidential weaknesses inherent in such incidents !
The words in Aramaic spoken by Theresa Neumann in Kon-
nersreuth in the presence of Dr. Gerlich, Prof. Wutz, and Prof.
Johannes Bauer are discussed by Dr. Wessely, an Austrian orien-
talist, in the Vienna Reichspost, the article being- the summary
of a lecture delivered by Dr. W. before the (Roman Catholic)
LeogeseUschaft. The writer is most positive, even enthusiastic, in
his assertions, and speaks of this case of xenoglossy (Dr. W. does
not use this term) as of something unheard of and without pre-
cedent. A series of sentences is quoted, and though among the sen-
tences we find one mentioned in Matt, xxvii. 46, and Mark xv. 34,
this aspect of the Konnersreuth enigma is certainly one of the
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1929
most striking. I doubt, however, if either the Aramaic words or
the stigmata or even the fasting are likely to afford us a decisive
proof of the supernormal character of the phenomena (the latter
because a thorough investigation seems to be beset by peculiar
difficulties). A crucial proof in this respect would perhaps be
much more easily obtained through levitation (i.e. attempts at
levitation) if the ecclesiastical authorities could be prevailed upon
to induce T. N. to turn her thoughts in that direction.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, January, 1929.
In a paper profusely illustrated with photographs taken from
the July number of the Proceedings of the British College of
Psychic Science, Fraulein G. Walther, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's
Secretary for scientific matters, narrates the recent developments
in the " Margery " circle, such as " Walter's " thumb-prints, alleged
automatic writing in Chinese, the " Camel " cross-correspondence,
etc. Frl. Walther seems to have no doubt whatever as to the
authenticity of these performances.
The late Prof. D. Karl Gruber's notes on 10 seances with
Willi Schneider (November 1925-October 1926) are printed. These
sittings are but part of a series, having been selected. Dr. Gruber
informs us, because Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing was present at but
one of them and in view of the " absurd " (tdricht) objections
raised by the Baron's adversaries as to the seances held in his
laboratory. The results obtained were feeble, barring a very
limited number of incidents.
The Spukmedium (Poltergeist medium) Vilma Molnar is the
subject of a paper by Dr. von Schrenck. He admits that this
case has not been investigated " with a thoroughness permitting us
to champion the genuineness of all the phenomena," still he
believes in that genuineness. The phenomena are attested among
others by Princess Windischgraetz of Vienna and Schonau (Bur-
genland), to whom Vilma admitted, however, that some were
fraudulent (p. 29).
A case of haunting which may have been striking is quoted
from a MS. work of Franz Rolan's written about 1900 and
unpublished. The ghost was seen by several persons. It must
be admitted that as a general rule these spontaneous cases are
far more impressive than the Psychical Researcher's experimental
work.
April, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 79
In a review of Frenzold Sclimid's Die Wahrheit uber das Wunder
in Konnersreuth Prof. Oesterreich mentions two new extraordinary
Indian cases spoken of by the writer, cases which are respectively
connected with the names of Sandshaya Madhu and Mangtuyan
King, the former being endowed with extraordinary supernormal
faculties, the latter being a preacher and Wunderhind. Prof.
Oesterreich hopes to see these two cases investigated by the
S.P.R. and the scientific circles connected with the review Yoga-
Mimansa.
Etudes, 5th January, 1929.
Father L. Roure, S.J., has a short article on the Konnersreuth
stigmatica which deserves attention on account of its very cautious
tone. The writer does not even hesitate to quote particulars
tending to discredit slightly the Konnersreuth phenomena.
Revile Spirite. In the January number Signor Bozzano con-
tinues his paper begun in July 1928 on the " Death crisis in
the descriptions given by the departed who communicate." With
all due respect to him and whilst admiring his painstaking energy
and very wide reading, it is needless to add that these descrip-
tions are hardly calculated to make the theory of post-mortem
existence and post-mortem communication more plausible. We want
thoroughly evidential facts, and nothing else.
In the " Foreign Chronique " reference is made to an account
published in the Italian Review, II Veltro, appearing at Citta della
Pieve, which account deals with the experiments made by Prof.
Calligaris, " an alienist of great repute," with the " cryptaes-
thetic " medium Enrico Fornis of Trieste. As reproduced by the
Revue Spirite, the account is far too brief to enable one to express
an opinion.
On page 36 a brief extract is quoted from a lecture of Dr.
Osty's printed in the Bulletin de la Societe des Etudes Psychiques
of Nancy. The director of the International Metapsychical Institute
speaks in this passage of his recent experiments with a Mme Kahl
who presents the remarkable peculiarity, it is alleged, of reading
people's thoughts, the answer appearing written on her shin. A
few instances are given.-"-
P.-P.-S.
1 Some account of Mme Kahl's phenomena was given by Mr. Besterman at
a Private Meeting of the Society on February 20th, 1929.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 192!)
Psychic Research, January, 1929.
Tliis number opens with the first instalment of a paper by
Mr. B. B. Dudley, entitled " Psychics versus Mediums." The dis-
tinction between these two classes of persons, according to Dr.
Dudley's definition, is that " the latter give some evidence of the
presence of teleplasm or of telekinetic phenomena, while the former
do not." The thesis which Mr. Dudley wishes to establish is that
psychic phenomena are " the product of forces resident in the
subconscious mind of living man," and involve only " a faculty
which, however it may vary in degrees, is present in all men and
perhaps in many animals." True mediumistic phenomena, on the
other hand, the only phenomena involving the agency of discarnate
minds, are always based upon a rare and peculiar form of physical
energy called " teleplasmic." The thesis is one which many
students of psychical research will for one reason or another find
it difficult to accept. There is an article by Mr. Bligh Bond
entitled " Athanasia : My Witness to the Soul's Survival." It
contains an account of some of the writer's earliest psychical ex-
periences, when he sat with a group of personal friends and certain
physical phenomena were observed. There is also an article by
Marius J. Zaayer on " Thinking Animals : A Statement of the
Negative Viewpoint," which serves as an introduction to a report
by Mr. J. Malcolm Bird on "The Briarclifi Pony" (see S.P.R.
Journ., January, 1929, p. 22). Mr. Bird, after himself witnessing a
performance by the pony, comes to the conclusion (endorsed by other
observers, including Dr. Hereward Carrington) that the animal
exhibited no supernormal powers, but had been taught to observe
a code of signalling used by its owner. Mr. Bird also has an
article on " Dreams—Previsional and Otherwise," in which several
dreams are recorded of the type described by Mr. Dunne. There
is a good example on j). 47.
An abstract is given of a recently published book on " The
Tibetan Book of the Dead," by Dr. W. Y. Bvans-Wentz.
H. DE G. S.
No. 455 —Vol. XXV. May, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CASE.
L. 1288. Information received at a Sitting concerning
Matters unknown to the Sitter.
We print below a report received from one of our Members,
here called Mrs. Cooper, concerning some information of appar-
ently supernormal origin received by her at sittings with Miss
Geraldine Cummins. The method of communication was by ouija
board, Miss Cummins being in a light trance. The names of
all persons concerned are known to the Society, but for reasons
which will be apparent pseudonyms or initials have been used
here.
The purporting communicator at these sittings was Captain
J. M., of the 1st Batt. of the Blanhsliire Regiment, an old
friend of ]\Irs. Cooper s, who was killed in the South African
War. Sirs. Cooper, who takes her own notes, had her first
sitting with Miss Cummins on June 22nd, 1927 ; at her fourth
sitting on October 26th, 1927, the following statement was
made :
J. M. You know Cunynham.
Mrs. C. Yes, of course. What is the rest of his name ?
J. M. Cunynham Dick.
Mrs. Cooper was thinking at the time of a man of the name
of Dick-Cunynham, now dead, with whom she was acquainted.
At a subsequent sitting with Miss Cummins on November
25th, 1927, it was made clear that reference was intended
to Colonel W. H. Dick-Cimynham, who was awarded the V.C.
in the Afghan War in 1879, and died of woimds received
at Caesar's Camp, Ladysmith, in January 1900. This Colonel
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research biay, 1929
Dick-Cunynliam Mrs. Cooper never knew, nor at the time
of the sitting did she consciously remember the circum-
stances of his death. It is, however, quite possible that she
had at some time known them ;
moreover, the circum-
stances of the awarding of the V.C. and of Colonel Dick-
Cunynham's death have been described in several published
books. The incident is only mentioned here as it seems to
have been the first emergence of a train of thought followed
up in subsequent sittings. Colonel W. H. Dick-Cunynham was
known to Captain J. M.
Extracts from later Sittings with Miss Cummins.
December 8th, 1927.
J. M. You want me to try to
put through a name or
two. Did you ever hear of
two men in my regiment
who were knocked out as I
was ? . . . One was a yoiuig-
ster Vezey. The other is
Frazer} . . . They gave me
part of a name which is
important. They could not
remember it all. It is
Eland— I think. They
were done in near some
place like that.
Vezey and Fraser (note spell-
ing) were the names of two
officers of the 2nd Batt. of the
Blankshire Regiment killed at
Elandslaagte in October 1899.
To the best of her belief Mrs.
Cooper had never heard of
either of them. The applying
of the term " youngster " to
Vezey is not very appropriate,
as he was nearly forty at the
time of his death and consider-
ably older than Fraser, who
was not yet thirty.
The mistake as to the respec-
tive ages of Vezey and Fraser
seems to be here corrected.
April 2nd, 1928.
J. M. I met two men I knew
this side lately. One is
called Frazer my regiment.
He was quite young. The
other was a good fellow
Vezey. I had forgotten
even their names till I ran
up against them here with
Dick-Cunynham. ...
^ In selecting pseudonyms care has been taken to choose names which
represent the actual names as well as possible, especially as regards mistakes
in spellinrr, etc.
May, 1929 Case 83
Does a name beginning
with Raven mean anything
to you ? Raven— I can't
remember the rest. Teign-
mouth — a place there — I
know there was some connec-
tion between Dorothy and it.
Mrs. C. Which Dorothy ? You
don't mean Miss Cummins ?
J. M. No, the other one. Her
name was connected with
that place. Her name is
the one connected with
Ravensburn—not more than
a connection. You must
puzzle this out.
(Later in the sitting :)
Mrs. C. I'll try to find out
about Raven and Dorothy.
J. M. No, Nevill. Remember
Dorothy's name.
April mh, 1928.
J. M. I am sorry I did not
get the correct meaning
through about Raven. I
thought of the Raven Inn
and then I couldn't get the
other Ravensburn through.
Nevills lived there, not
Dorothy, but I set it as a
puzzle for you.
The allusion to a " name begin-
ning with Raven " meant nothing
to Mrs. Cooper at the time of
the sitting. Nor did the allu-
sion to Teignmouth.
Dorothy is Miss Cunimins's
first name.
J. M. You will find Ravens-
bourne Teignmouth next.
Dorothy Nevill was the name
of a friend at whose house Mrs.
Cooper and /. M. had met.
At a sitting of Mrs. Cooper's
with another medium, not re-
ported here, there had been a
confused attempt to make a
statement about " Raven." The
Raven Inn at Shrewsbury is
very well known. Mrs. Cooper
notes that at the time of the
sitting of April 18th she had
traced a family called Nevill
living near Carlisle, who also
owned land in Shropshire near
J. M.'s old home, and she
thought reference might be in-
tended to them.
Mrs. Cooper, who has never
herself visited Teignmouth, was
a2
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1929
In my time NeviUs lived
there.
Mes. C. Is it the name of a
house ?
J. M. Yes, I remembered it,
and told you Dorothy's
name was connected with
it. It is the same surname.
In mv time remember.
unable to find any reference to
a house called Ravensbourne,
either in Kelly's Directory^ or on
maps. Eventually, however, a
statement was obtained from the
postmaster at Teignmouth, as
follows :
Post Office,
Teignmouth.
30.4.28.
With reference to your en-
quiry relating to the occupation
of a house by the name of
Ravensbourne, I beg to inform
you that it is confirmed that a
gentleman of the name of Nevill
occupied a house of that name
situated in the Higher Wood-
way some years ago.
(Sgd.) J. E. Needland.
April 2m, 1928.
J. M. Frazer has been telling
me about the spree he
says I missed, at X- .
I wasn't with the regiment
then. The two battalions
had the hell of a time to
get there, he says—excuse
the language, and regi-
mental gossijo. ... I shall
be a prude and not tell you
of a small scandal that
occurred at that time. Some
day you may hear of that
famous meeting between the
two battalions. The first
had done awfullv well, but
A military station in India
was correctly named with the
omission of one letter. The
first and second battalions of
the Blankshire regiment met at
this station in 1898, a fact of
which to the best of her belief
Mrs. Oooper had no knowledge.
It is true, as Mrs. Cooper
ascertained by personal enquiry
after the sitting, that J. M. did
not accompany his regiment to
India. Mention of this fact is
of some interest, since it would
not be easily ascertainable from
any published source. Mrs.
1 But see below p. 88.
May, 1929
they little knew what was
before them.
May 7th, 1928.
J. M. Next time I sj^eak I
will tell you more about
X— and the spree the
youngsters had. Jimmy, as
we called the adjutant, knew
about it, they tell me.
85
Cooper did not herself meet, or
hear anything of J. M. after
June, 1897, until she read of
his death in S. Africa.
At a later sitting on May
18th there was a reference to
" Jimmy, otherwise Jamieson,
the adjutant." There seems to
be some confusion here. Neither
of the adjutants of the 1st and
2nd battalions of the Blank-
shires in 1898 was called Jamie-
son ; there was a Captain
Jameso)t (note spelling) in the
1st battalion, but he was not
the adjutant. We have ascer-
tained from an old soldier
serving with the regiment at
the time (see below) that there
was an officer in the 2nd bat-
talion called Jimmy B . But
he also was not adjutant.
Oase
May m.h, 1928.
J. M. Bv the way, I meant to tell you more about that
X. affair.
Mes. C. Tell me about the scandal.
J. M. It seems hardly fair to repeat this gossip. I won't
tell you one matter as it may concern some one
still alive, but the other concerns the youngster
here.
He went on the spree, got pretty drunk, I under-
stand, and with another fellow wandered into a
high-caste Hindu's garden and private residence.
The master of the establishment thought they had
designs on his women-folk and threatened to make
a complaint to the Colonel. They managed to
shut his mouth ; no doubt they oiled his palm.
They hadn't an idea as to where they were going.
86 Journal of Society for Psyddcal Research May, 1929
They were just a bit fuddled. I haven't got the
story properly from them yet, but when I first
'.
. heard them mention it, I thought :
" By Jove
!
here's something for E.'s museum."
It is a fact, as mentioned above, that the 1st and 2nd
battalions of the Blankshires met at X. in 1898, and it is
worth noting that meetings between two battalions of the same
regiment are rare events. The meeting between the two
battalions at X. is mentioned in at least one published book,
and although Miss Cummins informs us that to the best of
her knowledge she has never read, or even heard of this book
(the reference was discovered by a Member of the Society
who kindly undertook to make some enquiries on our behalf),
it obviously may be the source of her knowledge ; the con-
trary cannot be proved. On the other hand, such an incident
as is related in the above extract from Mrs. Cooper's sitting on
May 18th, 1928, is most unlikely to be mentioned anywhere in
print, and it is therefore a point of considerable interest that
Mrs. Cooper has been able to obtain some corroboration of
the statement made. The corroboration is contained in a
letter written to Mrs. Cooper by a friend, Mr. B., as follows :
2nd July, 1928.
I was playing golf with Colonel D. the other day and I
asked him about the events we were discussing.
He was there himself as a junior subaltern when the two
battalions met.
While he cannot of course remember the details, he does
recollect some such incident as the garden episode occurring.
It would, of course, have added to the value of the case
to have a more exact and detailed corroboration of this
incident, but it is not surprising that such should be hard to
get, seeing that the incident occurred more than thirty years
ago and can only have been known at the time to a few
persons, several of whom lost their lives in South Africa a
few years later. The old soldier with whom, as already men-
tioned, we got in touch through one of our Members, when
questioned on this point, said he well remembered the meeting
of the two battalions at X. and the celebrations which ensued.
Mat, 1929 Case 87
Of the garden incident he knew nothing, but that is no
evidence that such an incident did not occur, for it is not
likely that a private soldier would have known of a matter
of this kind in which only officers were directly involved. On
the other hand, this old soldier volunteered to our informant
an account of another unpublished incident which occurred
at the same time and involved a man still alive. This is
worth noting in view of J. M.'s statement on May 18th,
1928, that he would not tell of one matter "as it may con-
cern some one still alive." At a later sitting IVIrs. Cooper had
with Miss Cummins on January 31st last, an attempt was
made to get a further statement from J. M. on this point,
but he declined to say anything on the ground that he had
promised Fraser that he would not give " the name of any
living man connected with that affair," i.e. the meeting of the
battalions at X. And there for the moment the matter rests.
Immediately after refusing to give the particular piece of
information asked of him, J. M. added :
Did you ever hear of West ? or what's his name ?
Tatton ?
Mes. C. "Who was Tatton ?
J. M. You try and find out. You have to do your share
of the work.
Lieut. Tatton was serving in the 1st battalion of the Blank-
shires in 1898, at about the time the two battalions met.
There was no man of the name of West in either of the two
battalions at that time. There was a Lieut. West in another
regiment which was serving in the Punjab in 1898. No
contact between this regiment and the Blankshires has been
traced, but such a contact may have occurred. So far as she
can remember, Mrs. Cooper had never heard either of Lieut.
Tatton or Lieut. West, until the names were given to her by
Miss Cummins. Apart from her personal acquaintance with
J. M., which ceased in June, 1897, Mrs. Cooper has never had
any connection with the Blankshires, nor has she any knowledge
of the book mentioned above, which refers to the meeting of
the two battalions at X.
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1929
Summary of the Case.
As regards possible sources of the knowledge shown by Miss
Cummins, normal or otherwise :
(1) It is extremely improbable that Miss Cummins has ever
obtained any accidental knowledge of the persons or events
involved. In 1898 she was still a child, living in Ireland, and
she has never had through her family or near friends any
connection with the regiment here concerned. She has several
relatives in the army, but none of them seems a likely source
of the knowledge shown in the sittings. Nor is it likely
that she has obtained the information in trance from any of
her sitters. She does not give many sittings to members of
the public, preferring to spend her time in such w^ork as the
recently published Scripts of Cleophas.
(2) The names of the various officers mentioned could have
been obtained from army lists, and, as already noted, a
mention of the meeting of the two battalions at X. has been
found in a regimental history published some years ago.
Published references to this incident are not likely to be
numerous. It may be noted that the two mistakes in spelling
which occur in the ouija board record {Frazer and Jamieson)
suggest that the source of Miss Cummins's knowledge was
auditory rather than visual (e.g. from an Army list), though
this is not a j^oint to which much weight can be attached.
(3) It is most improbable that any account of the garden
incident has ever appeared in print, and the number of persons
now living who might have any direct knowledge of such an
incident must be small.
(4) With regard to the curious incident of the name Nevill
associated with a house called Ravensbourne at Teignmouth,
information on this point, both as regards the name of the
house, and the name of the occupant, is obtainable from
Kelly's County Directory for Devonshire in the issues from
1914-19 ; the entry does not appear in earlier or later issues.
The communicator's statement that in his time " Nevills lived
there " appears therefore to be incorrect. Mrs. Cooper does not
know of any connection he had with Teignmouth. It was at
another place in Devonshire, 24 miles from Teignmouth, at the
May, 1929 Case 89
house of a friend called Nevill, mentioned above, that Mrs.
Cooper and J. M. first met. The information, which has no
direct connection with the rest of the case, was apparently
offered in response to a request from Mrs. Cooper for some
evidence of knowledge which could not be obtained from her
mind.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS.i
By the Rev. Canon H. Bickersteth Ottley, M.A.
[Editorial note.— We printed in the Journal for last December,
p. 394, a review of the recently published Scripts of Cleophas,
written hy the hand of Geraldine Cummins. The subject is one
upon which opinions differ, and it is thought by some students
of these scripts that the evidence for their supernormal origin is
better than was suggested by our reviewer. We print below a
statement of this view sent to us by Canon Ottley.]
Little more than a year has elapsed—for the " Introduction " to
this amazing volume is dated 21st December, 1927—since this
(first instalment) of The Scripts of Cleophas has been available for
present-day students of Christian Origins. The materiel still
awaiting publication—in Automatic Messages already transcribed in
type-written MS.—is, it is understood, sufficient to occupy two, if
not three, similar volumes.
From the standpoint of literary and historical interest, this
remarkable collection of automatic writings—claiming to be nothing
less than a record emanating from eye-witnesses of the facts
—
constitutes, obviously, a momentous challenge to many conven-
tional theories and traditions as to the existing " canonical " books
of the N.T., and as to the sources of new information relating to
the actual circumstances in which the missionary labours of the
Apostles and their companions took place.
Those who reahse this point of view will be first to admit
that the problems raised by The Scripts of Cleophas are, beyond
all precedent, formidable and fundamental.
It must be remembered, in approaching these problems, that
the outstanding feature of the Scripts is furnished by the period
—A.D. 34-90 (approximately)-within which their contents claim to
have been written, and to which alone they refer. The various
1 Hastings' Encycl. of Religion and Ethics, ii. 572.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1929
' scribes," or personal attendants and companions, of St. Paul and
the other Apostles, greet the reader of the Scripts with a " first-
hand " narrative of what they themselves have lieard and seen,
in that wonderful half-century which followed after the Pentecostal
Mission of the Apostolic band. Dealing thus, exclusively, with
the historical " infancy " of Christianity, The Scripts of Cleophas
elucidate much that appears obscure in connexion with the travels
of St. Paul and with the foundation of the Primitive Church, and
furnish information supplementing the narrative in complete
detail. Thus Dr. Sanday, referring to the brevity and incom-
pleteness of the record given in Acts xiii. 4 to xiv. 26, reminds us
that " A whole journey " is compressed into those two chapters,
" but has not left behind it any literature that is now extant^ The
happenings incidental to this journey are recorded more fully,
though with some dislocation perhaps in sequence, in several
chapters of the Scripts}
Such being the general character of this remarkable volume, it
will be realised that—whatever may be its " origin
"
—its contents
place it altogether apart from the entire mass of those strange
and semi-fabulous writings—roughly to be designated under the
general description of "Apocryphal"—which, as has been truthfully
said, constitute a literature of their own, " with the intricate details
of which only Specialists are competent to deal " {N.T. Apocryphal
Writings, Dr. J. Orr, p. vii). " These," as Dr. Orr says, " began
to be produced in the second century, mostly in Ebionitic and
Gnostic circles, and . . . only later, in modified and expurgated
forms, . . . passed into the general Catholic tradition. . . . Irenaeus
[describes them as] forged to bewilder the minds of the foolish,
. . . and as deviating as far as possible from sound orthodoxy,
and ... to be rejected as altogether absurd and impious " (H.E.
iii. 25). As to this literature, Bp. Ellicott claimed that " these
spurious Gospels," with their " mendacities, their absurdities, their
barbarities, and the inconsequence of their narratives, have never
been excused or condoned " {On the Apocryphal Gospels, p. 153).
From this farrago of heresy and romance—the by-product of
a venal endeavour to pander to the ignorant credulity of the
ancient Pagan world
—
The Scripts of Cleophas—with its simple
atmosphere of reverent and truthful record of the Apostolic
missionary journeyings—stands unalterably and finally apart.
iPp. 98, etc., and 115-139.
Mat, 1929 The Scripts of Cleophas 91
The present writer has on two occasions personally witnessed
the reception " of the " Message "'
entrusted to the unconscious
instrumentality of Miss Cummins. He has submitted the various
" theories " and " explanations " advanced by critics, in regard to
the bona fides of these communications—and affecting, of course,
her own sincerity and truthfulness, and the reality of her psychical
powers—to the severest possible tests. To the study of the
Scripts themselves he has devoted many months of the closest
and most searching attention that his own academical training
enabled him to give ;
and, with an d priori sceptical bias in
regard to what, from childhood, he had been taught to regard as
the " forbidden " ground of " psychical " communication with " the
Life that follows Death,"—he finds himself constrained to recog-
nise, in The Scripts of Cleophas, a contribution to the cause of
Christian present-day " Apologetics " of supreme and most oppor-
tune importance.
In this connexion, it may be of interest to quote the words in
which Sir Oliver Lodge permits me to put on record his own
convictions about their value. Writing on August 14th, 1928, Sir
Oliver says :
" I see no reason to doubt the genuineness of the
reception, whatever the source may be. . . . That all this detail
should have come through, is in itself a remarkable phenomenon.
It seems quite unlikely that the subconsciousness of Miss Cummins
or Miss Gibbes could be regarded as responsible for it. The only
plan is to judge the writings on their merits ; and I trust that
they will receive from scholars the attention they deserve." I
would end this note with some words in which the " Messenger
"
discloses, through Miss Cummins, the underlying purpose which
inspires this far-reaching and mysterious volume :
" It is our purpose, if the Earth will receive, to sow such seed
in the hearts of men of your generation that Faith in Our Master
Christ shall blossom anew. The men of your day believe, may-
hap, that Christ is dead. It is not so. He liveth, and shall
live in the minds of the people of your times, once more."
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1929
REVIEWS.
I. Leonard and Soule Experiments in Psychical Research [and
Experiments ivith other Mediums]. By Lydia W. Allison.
Also Supplementary Material. By the Research Officer of
the Boston S.P.R. Boston [Mass.]. February, 1929. Pp. 399.
The Boston Society, in publishing this, its latest volume, has
again brought within reach of the student a store of valuable
records of veridical communications through mediums, showing
knowledge which it is difficult to suppose the mediums could have
obtained by normal means.
The fii'st half of the volume, Mrs. Allison's, gives an account
from the beginning of her attempts to get into communication
with her deceased husband through mediums in America and in
London, and has therefore a sort of completeness. We see in it
how she has succeeded with some mediums and failed with others
of good rejifute for no discoverable reason ; and ho'w with certain
mediums first sittings were successful and later ones failures, and
vice versa. Extensive quotation from such a report would obvi-
ously be out of place here, and a proper idea of the evidence can
hardly be given without it. But to anyone desiring specimens,
I might suggest reading Mrs. Allison's Introduction (pp. 7-10)
;
a remarkable sitting with Mrs. Dowden (Section XXII, p. 162 ff.) ;
and, for a different kind of communication, a sitting with Mrs.
Leonard (Section XXI, p. 1.53) during which Feda gropes for a
description of an object recently purchased by Mrs. Allison, under
circumstances that would have been interesting to the professed
communicator. Feda unmistakably gets the idea of it without
being able fully to name it or realise what it is.
The second half of the book describes and discusses a number
of sittings with Mrs. Soule of Boston, at which Dr. Walter Prince
or his adopted daughter or both were the sitters. Intimate
details were given about circumstances and surroundings of their
respective childhoods—and also about Mrs. Prince's last illness,
which can hardly have come to the medium's knowledge by
accident or enquiry, and which have a distinct individual applica-
tion to the persons concerned. There is also (p. 353) a striking
prediction of a serious fire well worth studying. No place is
named, but enough is said to make identification of the place and
the fire which subsequently occurred reasonably certain.
May, 1929 Reviews 93
There is very little in the communications recorded in either
part of the book which could not have been derived from the
sitter's mind, given an extended power of mind-reading. But
there is a good deal that the sitter was not consciously thinking
of, and there are items here and there so appropriate evidentially
as to suggest selection by some mind interested in producing
evidence of identity rather than merely casual scraps of memory
or of association of ideas. On the other hand, as one would
expect from previous experience, there are definitely erroneous
statements, and others which, if they refer to true facts at all,
show a very imperfect and doubtful apprehension of them. One
can only attribute such errors in the midst of so much that is
true to dream-like irrelevance on the part of the communicator,
whatever the communicator is, or to some misleading association
of ideas on the part of the medium. In short, the records here
preserved raise most of the problems that puzzle us as regards
veridical mediumistic communications, but also furnish material
which adds to our hope of solving them.
E. M. S.
II. Okkultismus und Verbrechen. Eine Einfi/krung in die Krimi-
nalistiscJien Probleme des Okkultismus, etc. Von Dr. Albert
Hellwig, Landgerichtsdirektor in Potsdam. Verlegt bei Dr.
Langenscheidt. Berlin 1929.
My first impression on receiving from the publisher this splendid
and handsomely bound book (a volume of the EnzykJopadie der
Kriminalistik) of more than 380 jjages was, I confess, that of an
Epochmachendes Werk. And the learned judge's work is certainly
a most valuable contribution to the solution of a perplexing and
much debated problem, which, according to the writer's statement
in the preface, " is threatening our people as an unwholesome
mass-suggestion
.
"
'
Dr. Hellwig's attitude in this matter is well known. He is a
convinced enemy of the Kriminaltelepath, though, as he is careful
to point out, he does not deny the reality of clairvoyance and
telepathy in general ; he only maintains and attempts to prove
there were no cases of telepathy and clairvoyance in those trials
with which he was connected as expert.
After a few general remarks (pp. 13-36) he narrates three of
these trials in great detail, reproducing verbatim many judicial
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1929
documents hitherto apparently unknown. These trials are : The
Hildebrecht-Mockel trial at Bernburg (December 1924), the Drost
trial, again at Bernburg (October 1925), the G. trial at BaUngen
(October 1925). In the first case the two accused were found
guilty ; in the Drost case (which acquired at the time a very wide
notoriety) there was an acquittal ; in the G. case the accused (the
" medium's " husband) was found guilty.^
Into the details I will abstain from entering. Suffice it to
say that Dr. Hellwig gives at very great length his reasons for
believing that in no instance was there any evidence of super-
normal knowledge. The question of the hona fides of the hypno-
tiser (as distinct from the " medium ") is also copiously discussed.
I believe it very likely that the Landgerichtsdirektor's conclusions
re these three cases are quite correct, though it should be noted
that in some instances the opinions of other experts, such as
Herren Heyse and Tischner (our very esteemed Corresponding
Member) did not agree with that of Dr. Hellwig.
The layman or semi-layman is struck on perusing the book, it
must be admitted, by the absence of a detailed report on the
Giinther-GefEers case, which last year acquired so much notoriety.
The writer explains that one of his reasons for abstaining from
narrating in detail the Insterburg trial (see Journal S.P.R. for
July 1928) is the fact that the sentence of the court acquitting
the Konigsberg clairvoyante fills 121 closely written pages in folio
(p. 29). On reading this statement I more than ever value con-
ciseness ;
still, could not this colossus have been reproduced some-
what curtailed ? A magnum opus dealing with German (only
German) Kriminaltelepathen and setting almost entirely aside the
Giinther-Gefiers case (Frau G.-G. appears, by the way, in several
of the excellent photographs adorning the volume) leaves somewhat
on the reader the impression of " Hamlet " with the Prince of
Denmark left out.
As brief references were made by me in my Notes on Periodicals
in the S.P.R. Journal for October and November 1928 to the
clairvoyante's statement re the Countess Eulenburg case and the
Kaschnitzki case, I must mention here that according to the ex-
tracts from the court's sentence reproduced by Dr. Hellwig, the
judges expressed themselves sceptically about both cases and in
particular about the Countess E. as witness (pp. 29-32).
1 1 make mention here of the sentences of the inferior courts only.
May, 1929 Reviews 95
After the three trials I have mentioned, Dr. Hellwig proceeds to
relate with the same abundance of detail the two Poltergeist
(Spukerscheinungen) cases of Resau (1888-1889), ending with the
sentencing to fourteen days of Gefdngnisstrafe and to four weeks
of Haftstrafe, of the supposed culprit Karl Wolter, and of Hopf-
garten (1921), where the accused (a watchmaker named Sauerbrey)
was acquitted. The latter had been charged with having hypno-
tised his stepmother and thus plunged her into a semi-conscious
state in which she produced slight physical manifestations, which
Dr. Hellwig believes to have been fraudulent.
Dr. Hellwig's is a very matter-of-fact and a very learned work,
the work of a judge and of an upright and sagacious man. His
sincerity is obvious. He believes the German Kriminaltelefath to
be a danger, and he makes war on him.
There are a good many points in what the learned Land-
gerichtsdirektoi- says as to which I could raise a discussion ; and I
believe such a discussion might be in some respects interesting and
fruitful. But I have just remembered what I said as to how much
I value conciseness ! P.-P.-S.
SHORT NOTICES.
J. Valckenier Suringar, Verschijnselen van Gedachten-Overdracht.
8vo, pp. 420, 52 diagrams and ill. Wageningen : E. C.
Kniphorst. [1928 ?]
Dr. Suringar has brought together in a convenient form much
of the printed evidence for thought-transference, as well as such
evidence for clairvoyance, psychometry, possession, survival, etc.,
as seems to bear on thought-transference. To this the author
has added certain cases which have come under his own observa-
tion. Dr. Suringar shows great familiarity with the best and
most recent literature, and his book forms an excellent introduction
for Dutch readers to the mental phenomena of psychical research.
W. B. Seabrook, The Magic Island. 8vo, pp. 320, 46 ill. London,
etc. : George C. Harrap & Co., Ltd., 1929. Price 12s. 6d. net.
Mr. Seabrook deals with the superstitions and beliefs of the
Haitian descendants of the slaves transported to America from
West Africa. Among these beliefs are many implying the occur-
rence of alleged supernormal phenomena. Mr. Seabrook found.
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1929
however, that after investigation he had usually to consider these
phenomena abnormal rather than supernormal. Thus, the " dead
"'
men shown to him working in the cane-fields were almost cer-
tainly half-wits. Unfortunately, the author is not always so
sensible, as when he writes that " white men have died in London
—and the records are in Scotland Yard—because some monk in
the mountains of Thibet marked them to die, and sat droning
in his far-off cell among the Himalayas "
(pp. 53-54). Apart
from such pandering to " popular "'
taste, Mr. Seabrook has
written a most interesting and level-headed book.
Macdonald Critchley, Mirror-Writing. 16mo, pp. 80, 7 ill.
London ; Kegan Paul, 1928. Price 2s. 6d. net.
Dr. Critchley's pamphlet should be most useful to students of
psychical research who occasionally come across the phenomenon
of mirror-writing in automatic writings. The author describes
both the physical (hemiplegia, etc.) and the mental defects that
may lead to this abnormality, and gives examples both from the
literature and from his own experience. He does not appear to
have come across any example of the type recently seen by the
present reviewer : a script which was not merely reversed line
by line, but which started in the bottom right-hand corner and
proceeded from right to left to the top of the page. A problem
which Dr. Critchley merely touches, but which deserves a close
investigation, is that of the mirror-writing of a man of genius,
Leonardo da Vinci.
Heinrich Schole, Okkuttisiiius und Wissenschaft. 8vo, pp. 92.
Gottingen : Vandenhoeck and Ruprecht, 1929.
Dr. Schole takes up a position of total scepticism about all the
phenomena of psychical research, but without contributing any
new critical material or thoughts of great value. His little book
is interesting chiefly for an account of the most impressive
manner in which he produced pseudo-telepathic phenomena. He
describes his procedure, and it would seem that he was able to
guess correctly, by the sense of touch alone, which cards of a
number placed on a table were being mentally selected by a
person standing behind him. Unfortunately, Dr. Schole's account
lacks those details of corroboration and the like which he would
very rightly call for in genuine experiments. Th. B.
May, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 97
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychiqtte, January-February 1929.
Dr. J. Maxwell discusses in a brief article " Metapsychics and
Medicine with special reference to psychotherapeutics.
Prof. Barringt-on-Emerson and M. '
Fugan-' (which is a misprint
for '
Tugan-') Baranovski, a former Russian Senator and Professor,
attest the " paranormal " powers of M. Ossowiecki. Professor
B.-E's testimony deals with one sitting (Hotel d'Europe, Warsaw),
M. T.-B.'s with several episodes. The first, so far at least as
it refers to the reading of the contents of a sealed envelope, is
very striking. Why does not M. Ossowiecki, if he really possesses
(as I am much inclined to believe) such a remarkable gift, lend
himself to a scientific and systematic investigation 1
In the Chronique M. Ch. Quartier has a short note on the late
Herr Karl Krall, whose personality he calls " so curious and so
attractive."
M. Maire discusses the Margery case and the Karl Kraus
case, quoting verbatim almost the whole of Mr. Besterman's
narrative {Journal S.P.R. December 1928). M. Maire's remarks
are interesting reading. He is sceptical re Margery and thoroughly
sceptical re Kraus, but one constantly has the feeling that he
says far less than he thinks. This reticence may be natural,
but is nevertheless undesirable : if Psychical Research be a science
and the Revue Metapsychique be a scientific publication, it is not
easy to see why a contributor should not express openly his
opinion ndthout having recourse to a sibylline language, which may
have its charm but is out of place in such a connection.
Under the title of " Correspondence " we have a series of
letters narrating various, as the sub-title says, spontaneous
manifestations of paranormal knowledge."" These are of various
value and interest. For the most striking account we are in-
debted to M. G. Peyrin, Professor at Grenoble, where a name
" Elisa Ber—e " is given in a dream, whilst the real name,
unknown to Professor Peyrin, was " Elisa Berger." The coinci-
dence is certainly striking ; to assert, however, that it is
absolutely beyond the possibility of chance, especially when taking
into account the gigantic number of dreams dreamt, would possibly
be a somewhat risky statement.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1929
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, January, 1929.
Dr. Schroder prints seven further protocols of sittings with Frau
Rudloff. The genuineness of the " metaplasma " and of the
photographs reproduced in the December number is emphatically
asserted. It appears, however, that one member at least and some-
times two of the medium's family were present at all the sittings.
Dr. Pagenstecher has a further instalment of his paper on pre-
natal suggestion ("' Versehen der Schwaangeren '"), quoting a series
of instances in support of his argument.
In Kleine Mitteilungen mention is made of the recent decision of
one of the Berlin courts bearing on the ownership of a manuscript
poem supposed to have been written by Uhland and " apported
"
at a seance held in January 1920. The court has decided in
favour of the medium, Frl. Arnheim. Probably a unique trial !
Under the signature of the late Prof. Max Selling, a few lines
appear with reference to a book by Dr. Birven on the extra-
ordinary case of the Abbe Vachere (died 1921), of Mirebeau, near
Poitiers. In the Abbe's presence Hosts, sacred pictures, and a
wooden statuette would bleed copiously under conditions alleged to
exclude every deception. The blood was repeatedly ascertained
to be human blood. An explanation based on " telefusion of
vital substance " is suggested, an explanation I shall be ready
to give every attention to when the phenomena in question have
been repeated again and again under stringent conditions.
Etudes, February 5th, 1929.
Father Roure has a short but interesting and incisive paper on
"The Calculating Animals," including Kluger Hans, the Elberfeld
horses, Rolf of Mannheim, Lola, Fraulein Bochwold's Senta, Mme.
Borderieux's Zou, M. Sadowski's Bim, e<"'C. Father Roure's con-
clusion is that in all these cases the performances are pure
training : there is no telepathy, nor does the animal realise
what it is doing. It ceases rapping when it notices the sign
which it is accustomed through the trainer to associate with the
end of the rapping. The writer does not seem to be altogether
sure of the bona fides of some at least of the initiators of these
demonstrations. May I be allowed to observe here that it seems to
me probable that, beyond a certain point of passionate conviction,
there may be between bona fides and mala fides a rather wide and
nebulous margin, where to trace a precise line of demarcation is a
task not only difficult but even somewhat futile. P.-P.-S.
Mat, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 99
La Lettura, January, 1929. Cerebral Kadiations and Telepsycliic
phenomena. This article by Professor CazzamalH of Milan
describes some results said to have been obtained by placing in
the neighbourhood of certain subjects a wireless receiver capable
of registering electromagnetic waves of a length ranging from
0-7 to 5 metres. For the purposes of the experiment the apparatus
as well as the subject and the experimenter are enclosed in a
metal cabinet to exclude extraneous waves, but no information
is given as to the methods used to overcome the very great
technical difficulties involved in recording waves of such extremely
short wave-length ; it would seem that such an apparatus would
be very sensitive to slight movements of either of the persons in
the cabinet, and without further information it is difficult to form
any opinion as to the value of the results. V. J. W.
British Journal of Psychical Research, Jan., Feb., 1929.
This number opens with an article by Mr. Harry Price,
entitled " A Plea for a Better Understanding," in which he calls
upon all psychical researchers to make an end of the " quarrels,
backbiting, lawsuits, sharp practice, scandalmongering " which at
present hamper the progress of the subject ! Mr. Price's article
on " Psychic Experiments in the Roman Catacombs," which also
appeared in Psychic Research for December 1928 (see Jour. S.P.R.,
Vol. 25, p. 39) is rejjrinted here.
Psychic Research, February, 1929.
This number opens with a second instalment of Mr. E. E.
Dudley's article on " Psychics versus Mediums," including some
discussion of the case of Mrs. Piper, whom the author regards
mainly as a " psychic," and only occasionally as a true " medium."
M. Rene Sudre has a discussion of Miss Jephson's paper on experi-
ments in card-guessing {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 38), to which some
reply will be made later.
Mr. H. C. Wright contributes an account of some physical
phenomena (telekinetic) witnessed in a private circle, the medium
being a personal friend of Mr. Wright's. The sittings took place
twenty-five years ago, and it is not made clear whether the
present report is based on anything in the way of contemporary
notes. The conditions were, however, in one respect unusually
good : the seance-room was always " fairly illuminated by the
gas-light (partly turned down)," and Mr. Wright expresses the
100 Journal of Society for Psyddcal Research May, 192»
oj^iuion, which one could wish were more widely held, that the
complete darkness so often insisted on is " only a matter of
habit and custom," it may help " in producing the necessary
mental attitude " in the medium, but does not affect the pro-
duction of phenomena in any other way.
There is a second instalment of Mr. Bligh Bond's " Athanasia,"
and Mr. Theodore Besterman has an article on " A Historic Case.
Clairvoyant Phenomena associated with St. Columba (521-597)."
The general purpose and standpoint of the writer may be judged
from the footnote (p. 104), in which he states that " the pheno-
mena herein noted are not '
established '
in the sense of modern
psychical research. They are accepted and discussed at their face
value as illustrating the extent to which certain of the phenomena
of what is now psychical research were believed to occur in
connection with the earliest British individual of whom we possess
reasonably authentic records of this type." H. de G. S.
NOTICE.
It is hoped that M. Pascal Forthuny, of Paris, will visit London
as the guest of the Society for three weeks, from about May 25th
to June 15th. During his visit it is projwsed to hold about three
meetings of members at which he will give " clairvoyant " com-
munications in the way he is accustomed to do in Paris. Any
members who wish to be present at any of these meetings are
requested to communicate with the Hon. Research Officer at the
rooms of the Society in order that suitable seating accommodation
may be arranged.
M. Forthuny speaks very little English and his communications will
be entirely in French, though an intrejsreter will probably be present.
NOTE CONCERNING "AN ADVENTURE."
We are informed that all the correspondence and original
statements concerning " An Adventure " (by " Elizabeth Morrison
"
and " Frances Lamont," first published. London, 1911) have been
placed in the Bodleian Library, Oxford.
ERRATUM.
S.P.R. Journal, Ajiril, 1929, p. 70, 1. 21, "variety" should be
' rarity."
Xo. 456, —Vol. XXV. JirxE, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS
Barlow, James Arthur, The Old Court House, The Green, Richmond,
Surrey.
Flagg, Don Perley, M.D., 3102 La Salle Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.,
U.S.A.
Grisman, Lieut. - Commander J. R., R.N., Royal Xaval College.
Greenwich. London, S.E. li).
Librarian, Public Library oi the City o£ Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Lloyd-Jones, Mrs., The "White House, Birchington, Kent.
Millar, G. R. M., c/o Barclay's Bank, 5 Half Moon Lane, Herne Hill,
London. S.E. 24.
Porteous, Harold B., "Wing Commander, R.A.F., Air Headquarters,
"\"alletta, Malta.
Polak, Mrs. M. Graham, 34 De "\'ere Gardens, London, W. 8.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 2.59tli Meeting of the Council was lield at 31 Tavistock
Square, Loudon, W.C., on Monday, May 6th, at 3 p.m., The
Peesidext in the chair. There were also present : jMt. Theo-
dore Besterman, Mr. AV. R. Bousfield, Professor E. R. Dodds,
Mss Ina Jephson, The Hon. Mrs. Alfred L}d;telton, G.B.E.,
m. W. H. Salter, i\'Irs. W. H. Salter, :\Irs. Henry Sidgwick^
and Dr. V. J. "WooUey ;
also, Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
Tke ilinutes of the last Meeting of tlie Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, i929
It was decided to transfer the Society's Account at the
Westminster Bank Limited from the Hanover Square Branch to
the Tavistock Square Branch, British Medical Association House,
W.C. 1.
The Monthly Accounts for March and April, 1929, were
presented and taken as read.
GENEKAL MEETING
The ITIth General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Central Hall, Westminster, on Monday, May 6th, 1929, at
5 p.m., The President in the Chair.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S., read a paper entitled " On the
Asserted Difficulty of the Spiritualistic Hypothesis from a
scientific Point of View," which will, it is hoped, be published
in Proceedings.
CASES.
P. 298. I. An Alleged Premonition of Death.
The following case of alleged premonition of death was inquired
into on behalf of the Society by Mrs. Brackenbury, whose
report is printed below. The report is based upon personal
interviews with the dead boy's mother, Mrs. Burdett, and the
undertaker, Mr. E. Lambert.
An interesting case of alleged premonition of death was reported
in the Leicester Daily Mercury, 29th January, 1929.
The deceased, a young man of 27 years of age, died of pneu-
monia on January 27th after a week's illness. The account
given in the Press states that before he became ill he had a
presentiment of death so definite that he ordered his coffin,
chose four of his friends to be bearers, and arranged that he
should be buried by the side of his younger brother who had
died and been buried in the village churchyard seven years
before.
The case was investigated by the Society and the statements
made in the Press were found to be correct, but during interviews
with the boy's mother, and also with the undertaker who supplied
his coffin, certain information was given which makes it doubtful
whether the case can be regarded as one of actual premonition.
June, 1929 Cases 103
The motlier stated that her son had suffered from water on the
brain at an early age and that one foot was deformed. He had
been mentally deficient from birth and was a source of constant
worry and anxiety to her.
She could not send him to school as he had not sufficient power
of concentration to learn even the simplest lessons. As he grew
older the only kind of work he was able to do was to deliver
newspapers in the village. But in spite of these defects he had
a certain amount of cunning, could talk quite coherently and had
very definite ideas with regard to his personal needs and the way
to satisfy them. There is little doubt that he did, at times,
realize that there was something wrong with him and that he
was not quite like other boys. Tliis made him morbid, and he
frequently expressed a desire to die and showed an unnatural
interest in coffins and coffin-making.
After his younger brother's death this interest increased and a
great deal of his time was spent in the undertaker's workshop
;
he spoke more frequently about dying and about his own funeral.
The undertaker, who had known the boy for some years, said that
whenever a funeral was about to take place, he always came to
the shop to watch the coffin being made and showed a decided
preference for the more expensive kind.
Some time after his brother's death, while in this workshop
watching a coffin being made, he expressed a wish that a similar
coffin, but with black handles, might be made for himself as he
thought he would not live very long. Soon after this he became
seriously ill with pneumonia, and throughout the illness said that
he would not recover. He talked about the arrangements for
his funeral and chose four of his friends as bearers for his coffin.
Nevertheless he made a complete recovery.
The incidents referred to in the newspaper occurred in January
1929. On Sunday January 20th he spent the afternoon with the
undertaker and his family and, after he had left, they all com-
mented upon his unusually good health and spirits, although,
during the afternoon, he had described precisely the kind of cofiin
he wished to have, laying special emphasis on his desire for
expensive brass fittings. On the previous occasion he had asked
that they should be black. He also expressed a wish to be buried
by the side of his younger brother, and said that he had arranged
this with the Vicar. (This statement was corroborated by the Vicar.)
a2
104 Joiirnal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
On Monday January 21st lie was again taken ill with pneu-
monia and again insisted that he would not recover. He desired
that four friends should be asked to act as bearers at his funeral,
giving his mother their names. They were the same as those
chosen during his illness seven years before.
This time he did not recover ; his death occurred on January
27th.
The fact that an attack of pneumonia was preceded on two
occasions by a similar presentiment of death suggests that this
premonition may have been an expression of some physical symp-
tom which failed to reach the conscious threshold.
This case is hardly comparable with those cases of premonitions
of events {e.g. accidents) occurring suddenly and by chance, since
such events presumably result from causes external to and un-
knowable by the subject.
L. 1289. II. A Veridical Dream.
The following case of an apparently veridical dream was
first brought to the notice of the Society by a Press cutting
relating to an inquest held by the Coroner for East Wicklow
on the body of Patrick Burke, which was found wedged
between two boulders in the Avonmore River.
From the account of the inquest given in the Irish Times
of the 29th January, 1929, it appears that Patrick Burke, a
boy of 14, had been missing since the 17th December, 1928.
On the evening of that day he was last seen by his father
playing with a football, and when he did not return the father
searched for him, and failing to get any trace of him sum-
moned help. He searched all that night along the Avonmore
with Guards and neighbours, and since that day he had been
searching frequently with the assistance of a certain Michael
H. (his name is known to the Society but not printed here).
The father's evidence as reported in the Irish Times proceeds
as follows :
Michael H. came to him and told him that he had had a
dream on the night of January 23rd last, in which he thought he
had discovered the boy's body wedged between two rocks down
the river. The witness went with him along the river, and
June, 1929 Cases 105
Michael H. brought him to a particular spot and indicated the
rocks he meant. Witness took off his boots and stockings and
went into the water, put his hands into the water, felt the body
and lifted it up sufficiently to identify it as that of his son.
Michael H., who is a mason, gave his evidence as reported
in the Irish Times as follows :
He had assisted in the search for the missing boy, and had
passed this particular place on January 23rd, but without seeing
any signs of the body. That night, after midnight, he dreamt
that he recovered the body at this spot, and in the morning told
William Toole about it. Later he told Mrs. Gavin, of Knockrath,
and finally went to the father of the boy, whom he brought to
the spot.
As the case seemed an interesting one Miss Newton wrote
to Mr. Patrick Burke, Senr., and to Michael H., asking them
certain questions. In reply to the questions put to him
Michael H. stated that he had had the dream on the 23rd
January ; he had had no other dream of the boy since the
day he was missing, and had never dreamt before of finding
a body or of looking for the body of some one missing.
Miss Newton also asked the two following questions :
Q. Were you looking for the body when you passed the spot
a few hours before you had the dream ?
Ans. I had been looking for the body on the evening before
I had the dream and passed the spot.
Q. On that occasion did you happen to look at the two rocks
in the river ? If not, did you notice them in any way, no
matter how slightly 1
Ans. Yes, I looked at the two rocks but did not pay any
particular attention to them.
To Mr. Burke Miss Newton put, among other questions, the
two following :
If, when Michael H. told you about the dream, he took you
straight to the spot ? Or walked along the river bank until he
saw the two rocks, and pointed them out to you as those that
he had dreamed of ?
If, when you felt the body with your hand, this was the first
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jone, 1929
indication that it was there ? Or, could you see it before you
reached the rocks (when you were wading), or when you were
standing by them ? Could you say how deep below the water
it was ?
To these two questions Mr. Burke replied as follows :
There is a path along the river and Michael H. brought
me direct along this path until the rocks were in view and then
pointed out the ones he dreamt of.
On wading into the water I could see something white, and
putting down my hands I felt the body ; this was the first
indication that it was there. There was a kind of suckage under-
neath the larger rock and the body was in a half-circle around.
In my opinion the body was about 18 inches under the water and
the legs about two feet.
In a letter dated the 19th February Mr. Burke amplifies
his answer to the second question as follows :
I waded into the water and could see something white before
reaching the rock ; on coming closer I put down my hands and
felt the body. I raised it up and found that the force of water
had rolled the jersey up towards the shoulders, leaving the shirt
visible between the jersey and pants. ... I came out on the
bank and looked in where the body lay. I could distinctly see
the shirt and I told Michael H. that it was quite visible from
the bank.
From the same letter a new fact emerges, namely, that
Michael H. had before his dream suggested to Mr. Burke
that he should put a reward in the paper for the recovery of
the body, and that Mr. Burke did, in fact, put a reward of £5
in the paper for any person finding the body. Mr. Burke also
says that at the inquest Michael H. was asked by the
Coroner if he would take the reward and he said he would
not, as a friend of the family, \mt that about two hours after
the inquest Mr. Burke offered him the money and he took it.
Michael H.'s statements as to his dream do not appear to
have been always consistent, as, according to Mr. Burke, he
informed Mrs. Burke that he was sleeping at Rathdrum when
he had the dream, while at the inquest he stated that he had
June, 1929 Cases 107
the dream at Ballinderry. He appears to have the reputation
among his neighbours of not being quite normal.
The Society was very fortunate in obtaining the assistance
in investigating the case of Father John O'Doherty, M.A., C.C.,
of Rathdrum, who closely questioned Michael H., and came
to the conclusion that notwithstanding the facts stated in the
last paragraph his account was in the main truthful. Father
O'Doherty, it should be stated, took a degree in psychology in
the National University of Dublin, and a post-graduate course
in Colimibia University, New York.
Various possible explanations, normal and supernormal, of
the incident suggest themselves. To deal first of all with
possible normal explanations, the fact that Michael H.
suggested the offering of the reward and subsequently accepted
it might be taken as tending to show that, at the time he
suggested the reward, he had normal conscious knowledge of
where the body was ; Father O'Doherty discusses this possi-
bility in his first letter. As it was obviously a material point
what interval of time elapsed between the offering of the
reward and Michael H. reporting his dream, and as this
did not appear from the earlier correspondence, enquiries were
made of Father O'Doherty, who in his second letter reported
that there was an interval of several days. On the assumption
that Michael H. knew where the body was when he sug-
gested the reward, it is not easy to explain why he should
have delayed revealing its whereabouts for so many days after
the reward had been offered, or why he should have professed
that the whereabouts had been revealed to him in a dream.
On the latter point it is possible that he thought that by
fabricating the story about a dream he would favourably
impress the boy's father and the neighbours generally ; if this
was his supposition he seems to have been gravely in error,
as the impression he made was, in fact, an unfavourable one.
Moreover, Father O'Doherty administered a solemn admonition
to him to tell the truth, in view of the fact that the case
might be printed by the Society and that therefore, if his
story were untrue, he would be deceiving not only his con-
temporaries but future generations, and Michael H. swore
to him most solemnly and emphatically that the story was true.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
Bearing all these facts in mind we are probably justified in
dismissing tlie natural suspicions as to normal knowledge raised
by Michael H.'s suggestion of the reward.
Another possible explanation is that Michael H. may have
"ubconsciously noted the situation of the body before his dream,
and this subconscious knowledge may have expressed itself in
the dream. Some colour is lent to this hypothesis by the fact
that Mr. Burke on being led to the spot where the body was,
and on wading a short way into the river, saw what proved
to be the boy's shirt before reaching the rock. Against this
it must be said that the Civic Guards had been searching
for some time past without finding the body, and that it
appears from Mr. Burke's statement that shortly before the
body had been found the water in the river had been higher,
" the flood had gone down a great deal."
- There remains the possibility that prior to his dream Michael
H. had no normal knowledge, conscious or subconscious, of
the whereabouts of the body, and that the dream was super-
normal and veridical. This is the view adopted by Father
O'Doherty, who is a trained psychologist, and has personal
knowledge of all the parties.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, February 1929.
Herr Johannes Illig, of Goppingen, has a long paper on the
" White Lady " alleged to appear in the castle of Bernstein,
Burgenland (Austria, formerly Hungary). The case has been
investigated, we are told, by the late Baron von Sclirenck-Notzing,
who put himself into communication with the owner of the castle
through a certain Herr Grabinsky, author of a pamphlet on the
Bernstein apparitions, which pamphlet was apparently of a very
inadequate character. Thanks to Dr. von Schrenck and Herr Illig
himself, the evidential character of the case seems to have been
much improved. A series of narratives from persons who were
eye-witnesses of the apparition is printed in Herr Illig's paper,
though in every case only initials are given. Most extraordinary
(and convincing ?) of all : the phantom was photographed, and
the photograph and negative are reproduced on pp. 62-65.
June, 1929 JSfotes on Periodicals 109
Unfortunately, Herr Illig says he is unable to give details as to the
circumstances of the photographic experiments. He asserts, how-
ever, that the photograph was taken by the wife of the owner of
the castle under conditions excluding "all deception and trickery."
As an explanation Herr Illig postulates in the present instance
post-mortem action. I should agree with him were the case better
proved ; for I certainly think that one such instance if well
attested would be more conclusive of post-mortem action than the
whole bulk of all the mediumistic trance-utterances in our posses-
sion. Unfortunately, the evidence cannot be regarded as con-
clusive. I wish, however, to state once for all that in my opinion
such occurrences as those alleged to occur at Schloss Bernstein
must not be rejected d priori.
Dr. Tischner begins a valuable paper on the history of the
ideo-motoric principle.
Dr. Walter F. Prince replies to Frl. 6. Walther's criticism
{Zeitsch-ift /. Parapsychologie, July 1928) on the part of his recent
report on European physical mediums dealing with Rudi Schneider ;
Herr R. Lambert, the translator of Dr. Prince's paper, adds to it
a few remarks, and Dr. Walther has the final word. In Dr.
Prince's reply my attention has been chiefly arrested by his
categorical statement that in his opinion there was nothing super-
normal in his sittings with Rudi (p. 88) ; and in Studienrat
Lambert's Nachwort by his attempt to explain in a less sinister
way an incident occurring at these sittings, and strongly suggestive
of collusion by Father Schneider.
Kleine Mitteilungen informs us of the death of Herr Karl Krall,
whose interesting experiments with the Elberfeld horses will be
remembered by many.
A prophetic dream dealing with the Great War, and occurring
on June 8th, 1914, is narrated in the words of " His Excellency
"
Dr. von Kahr, the Bavarian ex-dictator. The dream occurred
to another Excellency, Herr Ferdinand von Miller. It certainly
does not seem to have been written down before the event ; the
fact that Italy would join the enemies of Germany had long
been foreseen by discerning Austrian and, I think, also German
military personalities (such as Conrad von Hotzendorff, the Austrian
Field-marshal) ; and this and other particulars of Herr von Miller's
dream (the participation of America, and Germany's defeat) are in
no way more striking than a report submitted to the Tsar early
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
in 1914 by M. Peter Dournovo, a former Minister of the Interior
of Russia. This report, which was published after the Revolution,
enumerates Russia's allies and enemies in a future war with such
accuracy as to suggest a forgery fost eventum. And yet there is
no reason not to believe it authentic. If I can get it, I will,
with the Editor's permission, acquaint readers of the Journal with
this extraordinary document.
Zeitschrift. fur ParapsycJiologie, March 1929.
This number opens with two short notices on the late Dr.
Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, and we are told that the next
number will be specially devoted to him.
Hilda Zwieselbauer {Journal S.P.R., December 1928, p. 405) is
again the subject of an exhaustive paper by Herr Wratnik of
Briinn (Brno), Czekoslovakia. The phenomena described are extra-
ordinary, but by no means convincing. Nor does an investigator
ready to believe in the existence of materialised boots with thick
and quite new soles (the " controlling spirit " having according to
his statement three such pairs in his possession [p. 125]) strike
me as being peculiarly competent.
In an Appendix to Herr W.'s report by the late Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing mention is made of Hilda having been three
times detected at Prague, after which she and her sister Irma were
sent back to Brno at once. Still Herr A. Liebich, a Brno banker,
who had after that a series of seances with both sisters, believes
himself to have witnessed genuine manifestations.
Dr. W. Achelis of Berlin discusses " Telepathy and Neurosis
"
in connection with a case in his experience.
Herr Alfred Schroder (not to be confused with Dr. Christoph
Schroder) has a paper on " Modern Physics and Belief in Spirits."
We are very forcibly reminded—numerous and impressive figures
being quoted a I'appui—of the limitations of our senses, etc.
The article is valuable. I confess, however, that I do not believe
a serious student will in our days deny the existence of '
sjjirits
'
simply because they may be inaccessible to our senses or because
Ave cannot well imagine the conditions of their existence. On the
other hand, because the reality of that existence is theoretically
quite possible, it does not necessarily follow that this reality be
a fact.
Dr. R. Tischner brings to a close his paper on the history of
the ideo-motoric principle. The name was given to the " prin-
June, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 111
ciple " by William B. Carpenter in 1852 ; the idea itself is of
more remote date. In an Appendix to this very valuable article
our Corresponding Member mentions a significant passage dealing
with the divining rod and occurring in a German publication of
1798. The same idea is there expressed.
The late Herr Karl Krall is the subject of three papers. Deal-
ing with him as Tierpsychologe Dr. Zoller, of Munich, expresses the
complete conviction that in the experiments with the Elberfeld
horses at which he (Z.) was present in 1912, these horses did
" really and independently think "
(p. 167).
In Kleine Mitteilungen M. Eothy, of Budapest, gives an account
of a recent judicial trial in Hungary, where the murderers (four
in number) of a supposed witch were condemned to three months'
imprisonment at first, and were subsequently acquitted. The case
is interesting, chiefly, I think, as affording one more illustration
of the extraordinary effects which may be due to spontaneous
auto-suggestion. Beyond this I do not think myself justified in
going, chiefly because, as pointed out by M. Rothy, several
essential details have not been cleared up. Even as it stands, how-
ever, this tragic episode (1927-1928) is worthy of serious attention.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, April, 1929.
This number opens with a portrait of the late Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing, and a series of articles dealing with his
personality and activities by Prof. Specht, Prof. Bleuler, Prof.
Hoffmann, Prof. Freytag, Dr. Siinner (the Editor of the Z. f.
Paraps.) and others.
Dr. Grustav Zeller has a paper on Dr. E. Tischner a propos of
the latter's fiftieth anniversary. In reviewing our Corresponding
Member's literary work he takes exception somewhat to Dr.
Tischner's rather sceptical attitude re the Crookes-Florence Cook in-
vestigation (p. 219).
Herr Lambert has the beginning of a very valuable paper on
Erau Giinther - Gefiers's trial at Insterburg (see Journal for July,
1928). We shall revert to it when finished.
Dr. Paul Bergmann, of Berlin, has a short paper on Psycho-
metry, with special reference to the part [supposed to be] played
by the inanimate object handled by the sensitive.
Herr Ludwig Jahn, of Cologne, speaks enthusiastically of the
lesults obtained by him in the same sphere (Psychometry) with
Erau Lotte Plaat (already known to my readers).
112 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research June, 1929
Zeitschrift fur Psychische ForscJmng, February 1929.
This number opens with another instalment of Dr. Mattiesen's
paper on Cross-Correspondences. The writer's standpoint is favour-
able to the spirit-origin of the messages and his arguments will
be hardly new to English readers.
Dr. Schroder has a further instalment of his paper on the
Metaplasma Pkdnomenik, dealing this time with the late Herr
Grunewald's seances with Einar Nielsen in Copenhagen (1921).
Into these seances I decline to go in view of E. N.'s subsequent
exposure at Oslo (1922). [See, however. Jour. June, 1922.]
Dr. Pagenstecher pursues his discussion of 2:)renatal suggestion.
In Kleine Mitteilungen Dr. Schroder speaks of the late Karl
Krall, whose conceptions re the Tierpsychologie he was unable to
share, he says.
Two cases of apparitions of the dead, one being both visual
and tactile, are narrated by Dr. Conrad. The evidence is at best
second-hand.
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, March, 1929.
Dr. Mattiesen discusses further the English cross-correspondences
in a general way, bringing forward the evidence in favour of an
external origin of the messages and of their independent manage-
ment {Regie).
Dr. Pagenstecher has a further instalment of his paper on
prenatal suggestion.
Dr. Chr. Schroder further narrates and discusses the late Herr
Grunewald's sittings with Einar Nielsen (1921). The same writer
has a short paper on the late Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing and
another on the late Prof. Erich Becher of the University of Munich.
Revue Spirite, February 1929.
Our Honorary Associate, M. Sage, prints the first part of a lecture
entitled :
" Why did Dr. Hodgson definitively adhere to the spirit
hypothesis ?
" In passing, M. Richet's cryptaesthetic hypothesis
is rejected ; the term, M. Sage thinks, ought to be struck off our
vocabulary. Nor does M. Sage think the meaning of the word
telepathy much more explicit.^
1 1 avail myself of this opportunity to express my regret that in my
reply to Miss Dallas in the January Journal I forgot to mention the very
great help M. Sage gave me in 1911-1912 in connection with the statement
about D. D. Home in Count Fleury and M. Sonolet's work. Here I wish
to thank him again for this very welcome and useful assistance.
June, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 113
Signor Bozzano has a further instalment of his paper on the
" Death Crisis." Incidentally and a propos of a " spirit " message,
he explains some haunting cases (local) by a kind of " mono-
ideism," by virtue of which the " spirit " is compelled to reproduce
automatically the same action, such as walking down a passage,
etc. . . . Some will prefer another explanation (that is, admitting
the reality of such cases) e.g. such incidents may seem to some
to suggest not so much continuous post-mortem action as an impres-
sion produced, we do not know how nor on what, by a person
still alive, which impression becomes
—
ex hypothesi—perceptible to
some other person under conditions as mysterious as those of its
origin. If I mistake not, this theory was formulated for the first
time by Mr. Edmund Gurney.
In the " Foreign Chronique " a narrative is reproduced from
Constancia, the official organ of the Argentine Spiritistic Federation,
in which Senor Alfonso Depascale relates a j^ainful incident sug-
gestive of prolonged telepathic impression from a little grandson
to his grandmother, coinciding with the child's fatal illness and
death.
Revue Spirite, March, 1929.
Signor Bozzano continues to discuss the " Death Crisis
'"
in spirit
communications ; M. Chevreuil asks :
" Is possession possible 1
"
(with special reference to the Lurancy Vennum case), and M. Sage
has a further instalment of his paper (lecture) on Dr. Hodgson.
In " Revues et Journaux " an article from the Tribune de Geneve
by M. Raoul Montandon is quoted, describing an extraordinary
case said to have occurred in the " Heatherley Artistic School,"
London, in connection with a framed portrait of a young lady
who had died, and who had repeatedly objected to the frame of
the portrait. After her death, three times in succession the canvas
was mysteriously taken out of the frame and put on the floor,
even after the canvas had been tightly fastened to the frame and
the latter to the wall. I think this narrative instructive, not per
se, but because if investigated it is likely to afford us one more
illustration of the degree of reliability to be placed on such
accounts when appearing in the daily press.
M. P. Yotopoulos, a Corfu lawyer, quotes from a Cretan daily
paper an article dealing with the " shadows " said to show
themselves every year at Sphakia (Crete). These apparitions
are supposed to be related to the tragic events of March, 1828,
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
when 380 Greek volunteers were butchered by the Turkish troops
after a heroic resistance.
We are further informed in the same number of the Revue
Spirite of the formation of a commission with the object of con-
trolling the Mantes " manifestations." (Our readers will not have
forgotten last year's exposure.)
Etudes, 20th March, 1929.
A letter is printed by Friedrich Ritter von Lama (a well-known
Roman Catholic writer, and author of a book on Therese Neu-
mann). Herr von Lama has no doubt of the supernatural
character of the Konnersreuth phenomena.
Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne, Nos. 19-20.
The Komitet Redahcyjny informs us that Drs. Szymanski and
Sokolowski and M. Wyczalkowski have joined the staff of Editors,
and that the foundation of a Polish International Institute is
contemplated. We wish it every success, and request that par-
ticular attention be given to the registering and recording in an
adequate form of spontaneous cases {vide infra).
As was to be expected, the late Guzik is the subject of several
articles. To me the Guzik " problem " is, I confess, erledigt (as
our German friends say), at least until further notice.
M. Prosper Szmurlo discusses the " Emanations and Vibrations
of the Human Body and Metapsychics," specially mentioning the
" Anthropoflux R." alleged to have been discovered by Herr E.
Miiller of Zurich.
The " Spirit of the Universe " is discussed by M. A. Kowalski,
and Mme. J. Domanska has a paper on " Mickiewicz, his Clairvoy-
ance and his Messianism." It is asserted that not only Mickie-
wicz, but also Slowacki and Krasiuski possessed the gift of lucidity
or prophecy.
The same Mme. Domanska is instrumental in bringing to the
notice of mortals messages from Pope St. Gregory VII (1013-1085)
(manifested in Warsaw for the first time, it would appear, on
May 25th, 1919), Dr. Ochorowicz, Kamiuski (a Polish actor
recently deceased), the poet Slowacki and others. The messages
are recorded by Dr. Habdank. For the benefit of my English
readers, I may mention that, according to one of the statements
made by St. Gregory VII, England is specially threatened by the
" Yellow Peril."
A telegram from Lodz is rejjroduced from the Kurjer Poranny
June, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 115
newspaper, mentioning an apparent case of an apparition coinciding
with death and seen by a stranger (policeman on duty).
A letter from Dr. Osty is printed making mention of a success-
ful seance of Kluski's in Warsaw, in the course of which two
paraffin gloves were obtained ; a luminous screen was used. The
Director of the Paris I.M.I, gives advice to the Warsaw " meta-
psychists," on which Dr. Habdank comments.
Telepathic experiments, the initiative of which is due to Dr.
Tanagras, have been carried out by the Warsaw Psycho-Physical
Society, we are informed, between Warsaw and Athens since the
end of October. Interesting psychological results are said to have
been already obtained, and we are j^romised a detailed report in
the next number of Zagadnienia MetapsycMczne.
Bulletin dti Conseil de Recherches Mefapsychiques de Belgique, April,
1929.
To M. A. Eutot's indefatigable pen we are indebted in this
number for three articles : a long paper on " Metapsychical
Materialisations," a note on the Mantes " phenomena " and a
short paper entitled, " How to Direct Metapsychical Phenomena."
M. Eutot is a thorough believer in the authenticity of the facts,
though using throughout the word entitij instead of the word
spirit. Ajmrt from this, his attitude, so far as the question of
genuineness is concerned, seems to be identical with that of the
most uncompromising spiritist. In the first paper the behaviour
towards Eusapia Palladino of the English [Cambridge] experi-
menters is stated to have been " inqualifiahle "
(p. 2-5), and in
the note on the Mantes seances the conviction is expressed that
the phenomena are authentic.
M. Dribbel, a member of M. Eutot's circle, describes a seance
which took place in June, 1928, in London, before twelve members
of the " Hollandia Group," the medium being a certain C. P. J.
of Great Yarmouth. Different physical " phenomena " occurred,
among them the materialisation of a barking dog !
M. G. H. Adan briefly narrates a photographic seance with
Hope at Crewe, the result being of course positive, and a Mrs.
D. H. publishes a brief account of a curious spontaneous appari-
tion seen by her and a friend in London in May, 1928. The
apparition was also seen, though less distinctly, by Mrs. D. H.
alone. There is some slight evidence that this may have been a
case of (local) " haunting." P.-P.-S.
116 Jonrnal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
British Journal for Psychical Research, March-April, 1929.
This number contains the report of a lecture by Dr. Neville
Whymant on " Psychic Phenomena in China." On p. 169 Dr.
Whymant describes a system of " spirit communication " analogous
to writing with planchette. " A forked stick was grasped firmly
by two men standing back to back, characters being traced legibly
on a table covered with sand. The tables were usually placed before
the shrine of a god, and the characters were regarded as an appro-
priate response to any question that had been put to the oracle."
There is also an article by Mr. H. 0. Evennett on " An Ancient
Cambridge Poltergeist." The activities of this " Caccodaemon,"
which appear to have been of the usual noisy and meaningless type,
are described in a series of letters written by Simon Ockley,
Professor of Arabic in the University of Cambridge, 1711-1720.
At the time of these occurrences Ockley was imprisoned in
Cambridge Castle for debt. It is evident that he was in bad
health at the time, and it is possible, as Mr. Evennett points out,
that the whole affair was " a delusion of [a] temporarily un-
balanced mind." The only clear evidence as to the objective
character of the disturbances seems to be contained in a letter
from Ockley describing a visit paid to him in prison by one of
his daughters, who " confessed that there were unaccountable
sounds," but " wished they had been louder."
Psychic Science, April, 1929.
This Number contains a further instalment of the report on
" The Direct Voice in Italy," of which a first instalment appeared
in the previous issue, January, 1929. Of the phenomena now
described the most sensational is the alleged transportation of the
entranced medium, by some supernormal means involving the
passage of matter through matter, from the seance-room to a
neighbouring hayloft, a distance of more than sixty yards. Only
those persons who are already convinced on other grounds that
such utterly incomprehensible phenomena may, and sometimes do
occur, are likely to be favourably impressed by the present
narrative, which is open to criticism at many points.
There is a short article on " Experiments with the Crewe Circle,"
contributed by Frederic James Crawley, Chief Constable of New-
castle-on-Tyne. The writer expresses his firm conviction, based
on personal observation, of the genuineness of Mr. Hope's j^heno-
mena, but none of his experiments are described in detail.
June, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 117
" Three Blood Incidents " are reported by permission from
" A General Survey of Physical Phenomena,"' by Mrs. Helen C.
Lambert. All these incidents appear to involve the temporary
" materialisation " of a mysterious liquid which had some of the
characteristics of blood, but was not normal blood. It is a pity,
as the Editor of Psychic Science suggests in a note, that more
prompt and efficient measures were not taken to have this liquid
analysed.
Miss Dallas has some personal " Reminiscences of a Remarkable
Medium," Mrs. Everitt, and Mr. R. F. Johnston's letter on
Margery's Chinese script is printed together with a reply by
Messrs. Mark W. Richardson, E. E. Dudley and L. R. G. Crandon
(see also Pioc. S.P.R. Part 110, pp. 407-408).
There is also a report by Mrs. Hewat McKenzie on " Human
Radio-activity " (illustrated), in which she relates some experiments
carried out at the British College of Psychic Science. Photo-
graphic plates in sealed light-proof envelopes were held for about
an hour and a half between the hands of the two subjects of the
experiments, the Misses S., and on several occasions blurred images,
stars or dots of light, were observable in the centre of the plates
when developed. The observations of M. Sudre in Psychic
Research, March, 1929, p. 144 (see comment below) suggest a
question as to whether it is certain that the light-proof envelopes
were absolutely opaque in all parts. Such effects as were observed
could undoubtedly be produced by small rays of light filtering
through on to the plates.
Psychic Research, March, 1929.
This Number opens with an unpublished article by •
the late
Professor J. H. Hyslop entitled The Relation of Psychical
Research to Physiological Theories." This article was written in
1919, but has only recently come to light. It is very much what
its title might lead us to expect, and here and there, as the
Editor points out, it gives evidence of having been written before
some of the most recent developments of physical science became
known.
There is a further instalment of Mr. Bligh Bond's " Athanasia,"
in which he is mainly concerned with telepathic suggestion, especially
under hypnosis (hypnotism at a distance), and with the projection
of mental images, which he believes " can, under suitable con-
ditions, be made permanent and visible to all." Mr. Bligh Bond
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1929
relates a number of personal experiences in support of his
opinions.
Mr. E. E. Dudley brings to a conclusion his article on " Psychics
Versus Mediums " and M. Rene Sudre relates " Two Adventures
in Metapsychics and Occultism." The first is concerned with the
claim of the " magnetiser " Joanny Gaillard of Lyons, to induce mum-
mification of various substances, e.g. fruit and flesh, by the
influence of a fluid emanating from his hands. A Committee of
investigation consisting mainly of doctors was formed in Paris,
and their conclusion, based upon experiment, was that the exist-
ence of the alleged fluid was not demonstrated. " After thirteen
seances the substances '
influenced '
by M. Gaillard appear to be
in the same state of putrefaction as the control specimens." M.
Sudre also mentions an unofficial experiment designed to see
whether the fluid would influence a photographic plate. Gaillard
and another person (not supposed to possess the fluid) each held
his hand for half an hour over a plate in the dark room. " The
results were suj^erb. Development . . . revealed very clear marks
on each plate. But, what was most disconcerting, these marks
in the case of the check subject were very much brighter than in
the case of Gaillard." The observed effects were eventually traced
to a leakage of light "in a slightly defective window. . . . Inas-
much as Gaillard was further from this source of light leakage,
his '
fluidic image,' photographically reversed like the other, was
considerably feebler."
M. Sudre's second adventure was concerned with a supposed
mystical system of numbers (inherited from a Hindu hermit),
whereby it was alleged that all questions could be satisfactorily
answered. M. Sudre's question " With what scientist did I shake
hands to-day ? " proved too much for the occultists, though it was
correctly answered by a lady in the audience, apparently by
thought-transference from M. Sudre.
Dr. Hereward Carrington has a short note on " A Subjective
Analysis of Obsession " (see Psy. Research, Oct., Nov., 1928).
H. DE G. S.
ERRATUM.
S.P.R. Journal, May, 1929, the footnote on p. 89 should refer
to the quotation on p. 90, lines 12-13.
No. 457.—Vol. XXV. July, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Wednesday,
the 31st of July, until Wednesday, the 10th of September,
Correspondence will be forwarded to the staff during this
time. Members may borrow not more than six volumes from
the Library before the Rooms close. The next number of the
"Journal" will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS.
Carthew, Lieut. -Colonel T., D.S.O., 2 Mitre Court Buildings, Temple,
London, E.G. 4.
Mudie, Miss L. A., Eatclifie Settlement, Stepney, London, E. 14.
Winterbottom, L. E., 42 Brondesbury Road, London, N.W. 6.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 260tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. 1, on Friday, the 21st of June, 1929, at
3.30 p.m., The President in the chair. There were also
present : The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, Mr. Theodore
Besterman, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Miss Ina Jephson, The Hon.
Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H.
Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also,
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
A letter was read from Mrs. Salter, asking to be relieved of the
Editorship of the Journal, in order that she might have
more time to devote to the research work of the Society.
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1929
The Council accepted with regret Mrs. Salter's resignation,
and expressed their grateful appreciation of her services as
Hon. Editor of the Journal for a number of years.
Mr. Theodore Besterman was appointed Librarian and
Editor, the appointment to date from the 24th of June 1929.
NOTICE.
Mr. Besterman having been appointed by the Council Librarian
and Editor will in future be solely responsible for editing the
Journal. The Hon. Editor (Mrs. Salter) will continue as
heretofore responsible for editing Proceedings. Communications
concerning the Journal should therefore be addressed to Mr.
Theodore Besterman, and concerning Proceedings to Mrs. Salter.
CASES.
P. 298. L A Series of Premonitory Visions.
We print below the case of an American gentleman, Mr. Gran-
ville R. Chesnut of Des Moines, who has on five occasions,
spread over a period of about 30 years, had visions which,
though differing in detail, conformed to the same general type,
and each of which was followed by news of the death of a
relative, the percipient at the time of the vision having no
normal knowledge of the death. In one case (the fourth)
the death preceded the vision : and in another (the fifth) the
order of events does not appear very clearly from the state-
ment received : in the three earlier cases the vision preceded
the death.
The case first came to the Society's notice through an
anonymous article in an American paper, in which one of the
percipient's sons gave an account of the first three visions.
The latest of these occurred in 1920, and they were all there-
fore, under the Society's rule, too old to be printed : but so
unusual a sequence appeared worth investigating. The same
member who arranged for the investigation of the Chaffin Will
case (see Proceedings xxxvi. 517 ff.) kindly instructed a firm of
American lawyers (Messrs. Miller, Kelly, Shuttleworth and
July, 1929 Cases 121
McManus of Des Moines) to obtain a statement from the
percipient, and any corroborative evidence available.
This firm obtained a statement from Mr. Granville E.
Chesniit. which not only gave substantially the same account of
the three earlier visions as was given in the newspaper article
(the discrepancies do not seem to us to cast any doubt on
the accuracy of Mr. Granville Chesnut's memory), but also gave
an account of two visions of the same kind which he experi-
enced in 1923 and 1926. These more recent visions brought
the whole case within the limits of time which the Society has
set.
As the Chesnut family is now scattered, and some of its
members constantly moving from place to place, it was only
found possible to obtain from them brief corroborative state-
ments in support of Mr. Granville Chesnut's narrative. ^Vhere
persons able to give confirmatory evidence are easy to communi-
cate with, it is of course preferable to put detailed questions
to them, and to follow these up, if necessary, with supple-
mentary questions, but that course was in this case impracti-
cable. However, the confirmation of Mr. Granville Chesnut's
account which has been received from no less than four
members of his family (his wife and three sons) is explicit
enough to counter-balance this defect.
Mr. Granville Chesnut's statement is not dated, but was
enclosed in a letter from the Des Moines lawyers dated 15th
February 1928, from which it appears that the statement had
then been recently obtained. It runs as follows :
Statemext of Granville R. Chesnut regarding Certain Visions.
I AM now a resident of Des Moines, Iowa, and have been such
resident for practically tw-enty-five years. I am well and thoroughly
known in many sections of the State of Iowa. I have reared a
large family. PracticaUy all of those still living are now residents
in Iowa or adjoining states, all of whom may be called upon for
the verification of the things which I set down here as to fact.
I am now seventy-three years old and enjoy good health, in
fact, have always enjoyed good health. Throughout my life I
have had repeated visions and have received messages from sources
unknown to me. A few of these in regard to my immediate
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1929
family I set down here in detail. I have no explanation for them ;
I do not attempt to explain them. I am merely making the
statement that what I say here is the truth and is the statement
of a fact. I was not at any of the times referred to in any
different frame of mind than was my usual custom and I can
offer no explanation as to why these messages came to me but
simply state that they did come.
The first vision to which I will refer occurred about four or six
weeks prior to February 9, 1897. I was living on a farm just
north of the water of Spirit Lake, Iowa. I was sleeping in my
bed as usual one night when suddenly there appeared out of I
know not where an apparition or form of a young man, weighing
about one hundred thirty five pounds, seated on the back of a
headless horse, and with his hat in his hand and riding at great
speed towards me. He said in a clearly audible voice, "It is too
bad, but it cannot be helped.'' I plainly saw the blood flowing
from the breast and down the side of the man. Nothing further
was said by the man on horseback and the vision disappeared.
I immediately discussed this matter with my wife and after her
assurance that I was mistaken I went back to sleep. Within a
very short time I was awakened a second time and the vision was
repeated almost in the form it first appeared. 1 then arose and
insisted that something was wrong and was sure to happen but
knew not what it was.
On February 9, 1897, my son, James Richard Chesnut, was
accidentally shot and killed while hunting. The discharge from the
gun entered his breast in the identical same spot from which
I had seen the blood flowing on the form I had seen in my
vision.
The next vision that aj^peared to me was about two or three
weeks prior to the death of my son, Charles Calvin Chesnut, which
occurred on December 10, 1902. At this time I was stopping over
night in a hotel at Randolph, Iowa. The same messenger which I
have referred to above, riding the same horse without a head,
appeared to me during the night, but in place of the seeming
hurry that had been exhibited in my former vision the horse
approached in a leisurely manner. The rider said nothing but
passed slowly on. On account of my former experience I knew
that something was wrong and that another calamity hung over
my house. I immediately wrote the members of my family of
July, 19211 Cases 123
the occurrence and all remember it thoroughly to this day. As
above stated, within two or three weeks my son, who was at the
time in perfect health, died, having contracted typhoid-pneumonia,
and passed quickly away.
The third vision appeared while I was living at Ames, Iowa.
My son, Benjamin David C'hesnut was employed as electrician in
charge of the electric light plant at Wheatland, Wyoming. On
this occasion the same headless horse with the same rider appeared
to me during the night. The horse rushing into my view and the
rider again saying, It is too bad, but it cannot be helped."
Both then disappeared. There was in this vision no sign of blood
as had been in the first. I again related my experience to the
family and again felt certain that some terrible calamity was about
to occur. The expected happened. On January 4, 1920, my son,
Benjamin David Chesnut, was instantly killed while at his work,
as I have stated above,
[According to the newspaper article the accident occurred two
days after the vision. Ed.]
My grand-daughter, Francelle. in June, 1923, was living with her
mother in the State of California. At that time I was living in
Omaha, Nebraska. One night during the month of June there
appeared to me Avhile I was sleeping a vision in which I appeared
to be standing in the Union Depot in Omaha. The man whom
1 had seen on the horse in all my other visions came hurrying
towards me with a paper in his hand. As I saw him approach I
said, Who are you ? " He said, " I am a messenger."' I asked,
A messenger for whom ?
"'
He replied, " I am the messenger of
Death." I then said to him, "You did not come this time as you
did before, "
and he replied. " I just came in on the overland
limited train. Did you not hear it run into the depot ?
'"
And I
said that I had. Tlie vision then disappeared. I woke up at this
time and lay in my bed thinking of what had occurred. Almost
immediately the telephone in our house rang and I went to it and
received the message that my grand-daughter, Francelle, had died
that day.
Mr. Granville Chesnut then proceeds to give details of his
fifth vision, which was of the same general type as the others,
except that the death which followed was not, as in the other
cases, the death of a blood-relative, but of a connection by
124 Joxirnal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1929
marriage. At his request we do not print this part of his
account in full. His statement concludes as follows :
These statements I make in the presence of witnesses, believing
in their truth, and for such aid and assistance as they may be to
others who have such visitations.
This statement here recorded was made in my presence and
under my direction, accurately taken down in shorthand and such
shorthand notes carefully and accurately transcribed, and I hereby
certify that the foregoing is the true and correct statement made
in my presence and before me.
Mrs. Granville Chesnut confirms her husband's statement in
the following affidavit
:
Polk County, i
'
I, Juliana Chesnut, oji oath depose and say, that I am the wife
of Granville R. Chesnut and a resident of Des Moines, Iowa. That
I have read the statement of Granville E. Chesnut in which he
describes the vision that appeared to him a short time prior to
February 9, 1897. I wish to say that I have a distinct recollection
of the happening of the matters therein described. That at the
time thereof, as stated in said statement, my said husband dis-
cussed the same with me and I observed his actions at the time.
I further state that at the time of the occurrence of the third
^^siou at Ames, Iowa, described by my said husband in his said
statement, that my said husband related said experience to me at
the time of the happening thereof and that I observed his de-
meanor and believe the statement made in regard thereto is
correct.
I further state that as to the other incidents described in said
statement by my said husband, I believe them to be true for the
reason that shortly after the occurrence of each he discussed the
(Sgd.) Granville R. Chesnut
1349 E. York Street,
Des Moines, Iowa.
(Sgd.) Ralph E.-Cole
Notary Public
in and for Polk County, Iowa.
AFFIDAVIT.
State of Iowa,
July, 1929 Cases 125
same witli me aud I had opportunity to know of the happening
of the events stated and described in his said statement.
Further deponent saith not.
Juliana Chesxut.
Subscribed in my presence and sworn to before me by said
JuHana Chesnut this 25th day of January, 1929.
John C. Cross
Notary Public
in and for Polk County, Iowa.
My commission expires July 4. 1930.
Three of Mr. Granville Chesnut's sons also made affidavits in
which they state that they are acquainted with all the details
of their Father's statement, that they heard him describe the
details of such statement at the time each vision therein
recited took place, and that they have every reason to believe
that the statements therein made are true and that the
occurrences took place as therein described.
As already stated there are some discrepancies between the
newspaper article, through which the Society's attention was
first drawn to the case, and Mr. Granville Chesnut's statement.
The writer of the newspaper article in giving an account of the
second vision speaks of the " messenger " as having arrived by
train : according to Mr. Granville Chesnut's statement it was
the messenger in the fourth vision who arrived by train, the
messenger in the second vision arriving, as in the first and
third visions by horse. The writer of the newspaper article, who
only mentions three visions altogether, obviously confused his
recollection of these two visions. This lapse of memory on his
part does not appear to us in any way to invalidate Mr.
Granville Chesnut's statement.
Before considering any supernormal hypothesis, the question
arises whether the facts stated exceed the probability of chance
coincidence. It is in favour of the hypothesis of chance that
Mr. Granville Chesnut has, as he says, " throughout his life
had repeated visions," and that in one case at least (the first)
foirr or six weeks elapsed between the vision and the apparent
fulfilment. On the other hand it is to be noted that the
nature of the vision varied in the difierent cases, and that the
differences corresponded with differences in the circumstances of
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1929
the subsequent deaths. If more detailed examination of Mr.
Granville Chesnut and the corroborating witnesses had been
possible, this element of uncertainty might perhaps have been
eliminated.
In the fourth case, the death seems to have preceded the
vision by a few hours, and the case may therefore be one of
telepathy. In the three first cases, in each of which the vision
preceded the death, and the death could not have been foreseen
by any normal means, we have apparently to choose between
chance coincidence and supernormal pre-cognition.
II. Two Hallucinatory Bilocations of the Self.
We print below two records (sent to us through Sir Oliver
Lodge) of subjective experiences, both of which involve in
different ways an apparent bilocation of the self. The first
experience—in which the subject, when in a state of great
physical exhaustion had a sensation of being for a time out
of his body—belongs to a type of which there is a good
number of well-authenticated records : a classic example is
that of Dr. Wiltze (see Myers's Hmnan Personality, ii. 315).
The second case, in which the subject, while in a state of
apparently normal consciousness, had a fully externalised
vision of himself, appears to be a rather rare type of hallu-
cination. The phenomenon is discussed in Dr. Paul SoUier's
Phenomenes d'Autoscopie, pp. 7 fi". The cases directly observed
by Dr. Sollier appear to have been associated with some mental
abnormality, hysteria or obsession ; but he also notes one or
two recorded instances amongst well-known men of letters, e.g.
Goethe and Musset.
I.
The subject of this experience, Mr. Norman F. Ellison, sent
some account of it to Sir Oliver Lodge in May 1927, and wrote
again on January 13th 1929, as follows :
... I am enclosing a copy of the entry referring to this experience,
as it appears in the War Diary 1 am writing out, thinking you
may Uke to have by you some permanent record in case you wish
to use it sometime ... Nokman F. Ellison. >
July, 1929 Cases 127
20th February, 1916.
We left Mouchiet in the early afternoon and after a grueUing
march along a pave road slippery with mud and melted snow,
reached Beaumetz at night. The briefest halt and then on to
Wailly, immediately behind the line, some eight miles south of
Arras. From there we waded through a winding communication
trench, a mile long but seemingly interminable. Liquid mud to
the knees and a bitterly cold sleet benumbing us through. At
last we reached the front line and took over from the French—
a
Territorial Reserve Battalion.
The worst trenches we had ever been in. No repairs had been
done to them for months and months. At worst, they had
collapsed inwards and did not give head shelter ; at best, they
were a trough of liquid muck. H. and I in the same traverse and
straight away on sentry duty. We were both too utterly fed-up to
even curse. Bodily exhausted, sodden and chilled to the bone with
icy sleet, hungry and without rations or the means of lighting a
fire to boil a dixey of water ; not a dry square inch to sit upon,
let alone a square foot of shelter beneath which to have the solace
of a pipe, we agreed that this was the worst night of concentrated
physical discomfort we had come across hitherto—and neither of us
were strangers to discomfort.
Several hours of this misery passed and then an amazing change
came over me. I became conscious, acutely conscious, that I was
outside myself ; that the real " me "
—the ego, spirit or what you
like—was entirely separate and outside my fleshly body. I was
looking in a wholly detached and impersonal way, upon the dis-
comforts of a khaki-clad body, which whilst I realised that it was
my own, might easily have belonged to somebody else for all the
direct connection I seemed to have with it. I knew that my body
must be feeling acutely cold and miserable but I, my spirit part,
felt nothing.
At the time, it seemed a very natural happening—as the
impossibilities of a dream seem right and natural to the dreamer
—
and it was only afterwards that I came to the realization that I
had been through one of the most wonderful experiences of my
life.
In the morning H. remarked to me upon my behaviour during
the night. For a long time I had been grimly silent and then
suddenly changed. My wit and humour under such trying circum-
1 28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, ii»29
stances, Jiad amazed him. I had chatted away as unconcernedly
as if Ave had been warm and comfortable before a roaring fire
—
as if there was no War on were his exact words I remember.
I never mentioned a word to H. or anybody else, about my
spiritual adventure that night. He would not have understood
and would have laughed at it all, but nothing will shake my
inward belief and knowledge that on this particular night my soid
and body were entirely separated from each other.
11.
The percipient in the second case was Metropolitan-Archbishop
Lloyd, Primate of the American Catholic Church, who wTOte to
Sir Oliver Lodge, as follows :
Chicago, Illinois,
January 2itli, 1929.
On Monday (between 4.15 and 4.30 p.m.) January 14th I reached
my house at the above address, feeling greatly wearied, sat in my
chair, took a newspaper in my hand, and almost immediately (very
unusual with me) fell into a deep sleep, from which, however, I
was sharply aroused in about a quarter of an hour (as I perceived
by the clock). As I awoke I saw an apj^arition, luminous, vapor-
ous, wonderfully real, of myself, looking interestedly and delightedly
at myself. Some books (among them Strachey's Elizahcth and
Essex and a copy of the Arabian Nights lying on a table back of
my ghost I could see and identify. After I and myself had looked
at each other for the space of about 5 seconds, my ghostly self
vanished for a few seconds, only to return in a more definitely
clear way, but for a few seconds only. I have written this to you
Avith the thought that you might be familiar with such unusual (?)
phenomena. The experience was altogether delightful. Myself
seemed to be nearly thirty years younger than I am now—nearing
seventy. I was not asleep. I was not dreaming. I j^ositively,
beyond any doubt, saw myself looking at myself, as naturally as
possible, the only difference being that my alter ego (as he sat
and looked at me) was diaplianous, I was opaque . . .
Frederic (E. J. Lloyd).
In a subsequent letter Archbishop Frederic gave permission
for a full use to be made of his report.
July, 1929 Dowsing in Bombay 129
DOWSING IN BOMBAY.
While passing throuoh the press the proofs of The Diviniiuj-Rod
(1926) by Sir WiUiam Barrett and myself, 1 was only able to add
as a footnote to the Introduction (p. xxiii) the fact that an
official dowser had been appointed by the Government of Bombay.
(As a matter of fact I wrote " Municipality of Bombay," but that
was a mistake). Since then I have had the opportunity of
making the acquaintance of Major Pogson, the dowser in question
(who has been specially seconded from his regiment for the purpose
of taking up this appointment), and of seeing him at work. And
I now have before me an official Report on the Work of the Water
Diviner published by the GoA^ernment of Bombay for each of the
three periods October 1925-January 1927, 1927, and 1928. From
these reports I summarize the following facts.
Agriculturists who have failed to find Avater by normal means
(that is, by engineering advice and the like) are invited to apply
for the assistance of the so-called Water Diviner. U]) to .January
1927 over 1700 such applications had been received. On the 21st
of August 1926, under the provisions of Government Resolution,
Revenue Department, No. 9182, Government guaranteed the Water
Diviner's success to the extent that if water was not struck in any
of the sites pointed out by him a cultivator would be recompensed
50 per cent, of his expenses up to a sum of Rs. 400. Up to the
end of 1927 (later figures are not available) one such refuml had
been made.
Up to the end of 1928 Major Pogson prospected exactly 750
areas, in 13 districts, chiefly Dharwar, West Khandesh. Bijapur
Ahmednagar, and Belgaum. In 439 of these areas he indicated
sites where he declared water would be found at specified depths.
Of these, owing to various difficulties, only 81 have been fully
excavated (many others are in progress). In 79 of these 81 wells
water was duly struck, though in six of these cases the supply
was negligible or gave out. On 16 additional sites situated in
" precarious tracts," preliminary bores were sunk. Every bore was
successful, eight of them being certified by the Engineer of the
District Local Board, the others having apparently been made
privately.
Precise details as to the conditions and circumstances under
which the successful wells were sunk are unfortunately wanting.
130 Journal of Society for Psycldeal Research Jlly, 1929
But I liave been assured by Major Pogson that lie does not visit
sites on which wells are required until normal methods of finding
water have been tried and have failed, and that in nearly all the
fields where his successful wells have been put down there are
others, normally sunk, that are absolutely dry. Subject to veri-
fication of these facts, the figures given above undoubtedly mark
a considerable step forward in the regularity and reliability of the
dowsing faculty. And as regularity and reliability are almost
essential to a thoroughly scientific investigation, the importance of
Major Pogson's work is obvious.
Theodore Besterman.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Spirite, April 1929.
M. J. Gaillard has an article on Professor Bergson, laureate of
tlie Nobel prize," and thinks the French thinker's tendency is towards
the " doctrines of scientific Neo-Spiritism," though regretting M.
Bergson has so far kept silence on the subject of the perisprit and
on that of materialisation.
A further instalment of Signor Bozzano's " Death Crisis " is
printed ; also the last instalment of M. Sage's lecture on Dr.
Hodgson and the spirit hypothesis.
M. Sage admits that from the point of view of this hypothesis
Mr. S. G. Soal's report printed in Proc. S.P.R. Vol. xxxv, gave him
much food for reflection. " Ce rapport est inquietant " M. Sage
concludes his paper by reproducing Mr. David Gow's letter in
our Journal for February 1928.
Zeilschrift fur Psychische Forschunc/, April 1929.
Prof. Dr. Blacher has the beginning of a paper on the Riga
seances and mediums (Frau " Ideler," Frau " Katoda," Herr
' Paleas," and others). Judging by some passages of the paper,
scientific methods of investigation do not find favour with the
Riga Psychical Researchers ; as to the physical phenomena, they
consist chiefly of " apports " of a more or less " spontaneous
"
character, a circumstance hardly calculated to make observation
worthy of the name easier.
Dr. Christoph Schroder begins the description of experiments
with Baroness von Vangel and another lady, similar to those with
Herr Max Rautenberg {.fournnl S.P.R. November 1928, p. 373).
July, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 131
It is asserted that in the experiments with Baroness v. Vangel
results were obtained 1,043,217,000,000 times superior to what
chance pure and simple could have given. No grounds are adduced
for this statement, as to which a certain doubt may well seem
legitimate.
Dr. A. Mattiesen has a further instalment of his ])aper on cross-
correspondences .
The same writer devotes four pages to the account of the
Millesimo sittings in the Castle of the Marquess Centurione Scotto,
described in Psychic Science for January 1929. It is significant
that Dr. Mattiesen himself admits that the seances in question
present suspicious features (pp. 127-128).
Dr. Schroder has a short article on a lecture on " Lord
Northcliffe's return " by Mr. Hannen SwafEer in Berlin, in March
last, and identifies himself with the unfavourable comments of
the Berlin press.
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, May 1929.
Prof. Blacher continues the description of spiritistic seances in
Riga, the medium being Frau Ideler. This lady is a very valu-
able subject for scientific investigation, he asserts ; which statement
does not appeal to me as being based on incontrovertible fact.
The English cross-correspondences are again discussed by Dr.
Mattiesen. Dr. Christopher Schroder has an article in memoriam
Guzik ; he also narrates in detail further experiments in the dark
with Herr Max Rautenberg and others. These deal chiefly with
the sense of sight, but also with the sense of smell. It is alleged
by Dr. S. with regard to a particular series of such experiments
with Herr Rautenberg and the Baroness von Vangel that the
results obtained were to chance-coincidence as 1 to about 1 quin-
tillion, a claim which to some will appear as rather minimising
than enhancing the value of Dr. Schroder's account. Be this as
it may, some of the results narrated are unquestionably curious,
and we hope that the promised forthcoming instalment dealing
with the psychology of animals will be more interesting still.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, May 1929.
This number again opens with a series of articles on the late
Baron von Schrenck-Notzing by Prof. Richet, Mme Bisson, Prof.
Zimmer, Herr Rudolf Lambert and others. Herr Lambert alludes
to the suspicious circumstances supposed to have come of late to
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, V.)2'J
light in connection with the photographs taken of Eva C.'s (Marthe
Beraud's) performances ; and whilst admitting that they detract
from the value of the late Dr. Geley's testimony re the pheno-
mena," he maintains that a good deal remains imexplained up to
the present day.^ When speaking of the Schrenck-Notzing investi-
gation of the Schneider phenomena, Herr Lambert states that he
repeatedly urged upon the Baron the desirability of the mediums
being tested by different commissions in various places, but un-
sviccessfully. Herr Lambert thinks this refusal on Dr. von Schrenck's
part was a tactical mistake. Be this as it may, we should avoid,
I think, making positive results depend too exclusively on an
assumption of the bond fides of one and the same observer, whoever
this observer may be.
Herr R. Lambert has also a further instalment of his valuable
paper on Frau Giinther-Geffers's trial at Insterburg, which paper
is as yet unfinished.
An article on living for some time without food, with sjjecial
reference to Konnersreuth. by Dr. Walter Kroner is reproduced
from the AerztUche Rundschau. Various cases from the past of a
somewhat similar character to that of Therese Neumann are quoted,
and Dr. K. thinks the mystery could be solved if a registering
balance were used and the supposed alterations of weight of the
stigmatica"s body in the course of her ecstasies thus recorded.
Whatever may be thought on this point, it is difficult not to
agree with Dr. Kroner that the Konnersreuth case is by no means
investigated as it should he.
Zeitschrifi fur Parupsijchologie, June 1929.
Dr. Arthur Heller, of Prague, prints an account of some clair-
voyant experiments with Erik Jan Hanussen. The Editor
observes in a footnote that Hanussen has become a music-hall
performer and particularly insists that in this case the responsi-
bility lies entirely with the writer.
Herr Franz Lehmann describes some poltergeist phenomena
(chiefly stone-throwings) which occurred in June-September 1718
at Groben in the house of Jeremias Heinisch, a Protestant (?)
clergyman. The account is given partly in the Ffarrer's own
^Cf. Prof. Hans Driesch in Journal S.P.R. for April 1020: "His sincerity has
never been doubted, thougli there are a good many who believe that he has
probably been deceived in the first period of his investigations (Eva C.)."
Jli.v, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 133
words, from a narrative by himself said to be preserved in the
archives of the parish. Without expressing doubts on the subject
we should like to see the existence of this record a little better
authenticated.
Dr. Pagenstecher. of Mexico, discusses psychometry with special
reference to Senora Maria Reyes de Z. versus Frau Lotte Plaat
(Jourmd, June 1928. etc.) : and Dr. Gerda Walther, of ^lunich. has
a paper on Parapsychologie und Mystik."
Herr R. Lambert brings to a close his valuable paper on Frau
CTunther-GefJers's Insterburg trial begun in the April number. He
analyses the evidence thoroughly and impartially, showing the pros
and cons and not omitting the suspicious items, of which there
are not a few. His conclusions are partly favourable to Frau
Ct.-G.'s claims. If there were a German S.P.R., he thinks, it
ought certainly to test the Konigsberg clairvoyant. With this
I agree. Herr Lambert is quite right in repeatedly pointing out
the difference between this clairvoyant's propensity to give sur-
names and the avoidance of the same by mediums and clair-
voyants in general.
In Kleine MitteiluHgen we are informed that on the initiative
of Frau Eiro Hellberg, a Swedish authoress, a SvensJca Centralen
for PsykisJi Farskning (Broffningg, 28, Stockholm) has been founded.
This Centralen will give two courses of lectures in July at Wisby,
Gotland, at which Prof. Hans Driesch is to speak and Prof.
Blacher, of Riga, is to bring a medium for apports.
An interesting case of stigmatisation said to have occurred at
Roccamontina. South Italy, to a young carpenter named Pietro
C'ianci is quoted from the Vossische Zeitung, with reference to the
Messaggero. It is earnestly to be hoped that it will be brought
up to the standard to which our Society has accustomed us :
meanwhile, in the form in which it is given, it undoubtedly tends to
make the hypothesis of auto-suggestion as an explanation of stigma-
tisation more probable than ever before.
Herr Irmgard Grimm, of Peking, contributes a short paper on
Margery's automatic writings in Chinese. They seem to him
completely to exclude a spiritistic interpretation : to suggest
rather a " clairvoyant " seeing and copying of the text (an ad-
mission which seems to me somewhat ominous). Frl. Gerda
Walther. who comments briefly on Herr Grimm's remarks, also
is of opinion that a "book-test" may be here en cause, both
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Julv, 1929
agreeing on the other hand that Hardwicke's ^ Chinese writing
(also reproduced in Z. /. Paraps. from Psf/chic Science) is of much
greater interest and value.
Revue Metapsychique, May 1929.
Professor Ch. Richet has an article on Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing and M. Charles Quartier on Professor Hans Driesch, since
March 1.5th a member of the Institut Metapsychique International
Committee. In the first, reference is made to Prof. Richet's
" astonishing " experiments with Marthe Beraud (" Eva Carriere)
at Algiers, though he thinks some of his later observations with
the same ""
medium " in Paris " still more decisive perhaps."
Dr. Osty prints a very long paper on '"
What Medicine has to
expect from the experimental study of man's paranormal psychical
faculties." A particularly interesting part of this paper is devoted
to some experiments made in October 1927—March 1928 with Mme.
Olga Kahl, of Paris (a Russian by birth) on the phenomena of
what he calls " demographism of thought." These experiments
are very striking. They certainly seem to suggest (what we call)
thought transference coupled with the power of reproducing the
word or drawing thought of on the " subject's " skin. It is much
to be desired that Mine. Kahl will be thoroughly and systemati-
cally investigated.^
In the same number of the B. M. we read of the project of a
prize to be given to " subjects " endowed with " paranormal
"
(supernormal) powers, to which ])rize Mme. la generale Foulon has
already contributed 500 francs.
M. Cliarles Quartier reviews in his usual lively and interesting
fashion some new books bearing more or less on matters psychical
:
not by any means the least attractive part of this number of the
Revue.
Etudes, 5th May 1929.
Father L. Roure, H.J., lias a paper a propos of M. Pierre Janet's
work in two volumes, De VAngoisse a VExtase (Paris, F. Alcan,
1926-1928). Tlie writer's object is to prove at length that the
^ cf. Proceedings, xxxviii. 403 ff.
2 The late General Wrangel related to me a very striking experiment made
with Mme K. in Constantinople in his presence by the French Admiral D.
[1921 ?] : a surname given in writing which the Admiral alone seems to
have known. See also S.P.R. Proc. xxxviii. 413 it.
Jui-T, 1929 JVotes on Periodicals 135
Saints of tie Eomau Catholic Church whose ecstasies have been
recorded are widely different from M. Janet's " subjects in
general and the celebrated Madeleine in particular. There was a
time, Father E. says, when mysticism was explained by hysteria.
We have now before us something analogous : M. Janet s intro-
version" on precocious insanity (r^emence). To interpret in this way
all ecstatic states, the writer thinks " is to challenge the most
securely observed facts (p. 344).
It may be so. But I wonder what Father Roure"s attitude
would have been before Protestant ''ecstasies"'?
P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research. April 1929.
Monsieur Sudre, during the com-se of an article on dowsing, brings
to bear perhaps unnecessarily heavy artillery against a French pam-
phlet in which the phenomena of dowsing are once more, and
still without justification, related to those of electricity. Mr. Bond
continues his witness to the souFs survival, again bringing for-
ward the Glastonbury scripts. Mr. Arthur Goa.dby attempts to
defend the claims made for the supernormal nature of the feats
of the pony Black Bear, by ridiculing the suggestion that secret
signals are given to the pony by the trainer, who is always
present during the pony's performances. Mr. Bird publishes the
records of the sittings held by a group of ladies of no known
mediumistic faculty. At these sittings, by means of table-tilting,
messages were received in which information was given concerning
a considerable number of individuals, stated to be imknown to
the sitters, which information has been subsequently verified from
various sources. I am not satisfied that adequate .steps have been
taken to establish the claim that the indi-snduals identified were
unknown to any of the sitters ; and the methods of authentifica-
tion in general are somewhat scrappy. But if the published
material could be taken at its face value it would form a case
of quite exceptional interest.
Dr. Biu^ns publishes the first case of a new series descriptive of
Dr. Bull's treatment of apparent obsession (cp. Proceedings, xxxviii.
388 ff.). M. Sudre writes of the life and works of Schrenck-
Notzing, with whose mind his own was "in strong synchronism
[s?'c] " (p. 250). M. Sudre concludes that his subject "has the
immense merit of having established definitely the reality of the
physical phenomena of metapsychics "
(p. 255). Mr. H. 0. Evennett
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, i929
prints a series of letters written in 1718 by Simon Ockley, Professor
of Arabic at Cambridge, describing circumstantially certain pol-
tergeist phenomena observed by him. Mr. Bond has another
instalment of his witness to the soul's survival. Mr. Bird begins
the publication of what he calls a layman's survey of psychic
research, amplified from his public lectures.
In tlie Bulletin de VInstitut Geneml Psychologique for 1908 (viii.
105 sqq.) ]\I. Jules Courtier published an important report of
sittings held at the Institut with Eusapia Palladino (this report
was re-issued in book form). At the request of Herr Lambert
(cp. Zeitschrift fur Parapsychohgie [1928], Iv. 107 sqq.) M. Courtier
has now restated his conclusions in the BuUetin (1928), xxviii.
167 sqq. These conclusions are that the phenomena observed with
Eusapia were such that, while he does not consider it to have
been scientifically established that they were genuine, he is sub-
jectively convinced that they were.
Mr. JJingwall contributes an article entitled " The Crisis in
Psychical Research " to the May (i. 68 sqq.) issue of The Realist.
The nature of the crisis does not emerge from the article, which
is in fact another attack on the S.P.R. The Society, in the
writer's opinion, " at one time had a reputation, not altogether
undeserved, for caution and discretion "
(p. 71), but it is now in
a condition of " internal decay " (p. 78) which has unfortunately
caused it to lose Mr. Dingwall's confidence. This loss might be
more regrettable if Mr. Dingwall showed any capacity for adding
any concrete or constructive suggestions to his purely destructive
polemics. Th. B.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Veley Scripts.
Dear Editor,
I have made a few notes on the " Margaret Veley " case,
wliich may perhaps be of some interest to readers of the Journal,
and may prompt them to send you their own reflections on this
rather puzzling case.
1 . Mr. F. inclines to accept two conclusions
:
(«) That some agency external to his own mind is involved
(p. 363).
July, 1929 Correspondence 137
(b) That the characterisation does not justify the claim that
M. V. offers good evidence of identity (p. 330).
I agree with both conclusions. Since it is obvious, however,
that the facts referred to in the Script were (at one time at
least) within the memory of M. V., the problem is : How did the
memories of M. V. get into the automatic script of Mr. V. ?
Mr. V. offers no solution of this problem.
The hypothesis I would suggest is : that an intelligent, discarnate
agent derived these statements from M. V. and transmitted them
to Mr. V. If this is what occurred several perplexing features
can be accounted for.
The impersonal character of the communication would seem
quite natural if M. V. was merely giving information to some
member of a group on the "Other Side."" There is no reason to
suppose that she would care to communicate direct, not being
drawn to do so by any bond of personal affection, and possibly
being aware that her relations on earth " dislike any canvassing
of the possibility of their dead kinswoman and friend having
'
communicated '
through perfect strangers "
(p. 283).
Those who are already convinced on other evidence that there
is such a group of Psychical Researchers on the " Other Side,"
who are working to produce evidence of survival, will find this
hypothesis consistent with their convictions.
2. What then is meant by the statement, " Margaret Veley is
here " ? (p. 285). When the operator from the B.B.C. says, " We
are going over to Birmingham," we understand him to mean that
a connection is made with Birmingham. I understand this state-
ment, " M. V. is here," in the same sense.
3. If this interpretation is correct the result would naturally be
a blend of M. V.'s memories, the agent's mentality and the
colouring of the medium's mind (p. 333). This sort of amalgam
occurs under ordinary circumstances on this Side. We all (pro-
bably) know persons who are particularly liable to assimilate the
ideas, and even to imitate (unconsciously) the manner of those
they are with—Mediumship involves this tendency to unintentional
assimilation. Our experiences of this sort of blend in normal life
illustrate what occurs in mediumistic experiences.
4. Whether the fact that some of the statements made have
been in print had any effect on the information given we cannot
yet know, but we can see that for the purpose of verification the
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1929
selection of such facts was wise. The selection shown is a feature
to be accounted for (p. 362). It seems impossible to account for
it except by assuming that an intelligent agent is operating.
If this hypothesis is accepted it is probable that it will afford
a clue to the Gordon Davies case. In that case G. D. was
unconscious that his mind was being tapped ; and this may be
the reason why the selective character of the statements made is
perhaps a less prominent feature and certainly the information is
less complete. The prevision in that case introduces a fresh
problem not in the Mr. V. case.
5. The confusion about names offers no difficulty to me, because
I am familiar with it in myself. I have great difficulty in pro-
ducing familiar names and I have often to resort to similar
methods to those used by mediums in order to recall them. For
instance, I constantly have to recall the name of Polyanthus
when I want to mention that well-known flower by remembering
a friend called Polly !
There is another detail in this connexion which I have observed,
but cannot explain. I have repeatedly found that a medium will
give a second name—or a quite unfamiliar name—when describing
a personality I recognize. The name I associate with the person
being, apparently, more diflficult to pronounce although it is quite
simple.
It would be interesting if students would point out in the
Journal details in the M. V. record which either support the above
hypothesis, or which seem inconsistent with it.
H. A. Dallas.
No. 458.—Vol. XXV. ; October, 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIRST
Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture
V^ILL BE DELIVERED BY
Sir OLIVER LODGE,
AT THE
AEOLIAN HALL,
135-7 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. i,
ON
FRIDAY, October 18th, ig2g, at 5.J0 p.m.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted by Tickets Only.
Full particulars are given on the following page.
140 Journal of Socidy Jor Psycliical Research October, in29
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
The First Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture.
The first Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture will be de-
livered by Sir Oliver Lodge in the Aeolian Hall, New Bond
Street, on Friday, the 18th of October, 1929, at 5.30 p.m.
Each Member and Associate will be allowed to invite one guest.
Admittance will be by ticket only. Tickets will be numbered
and will be allotted in order of application, which should there-
fore be made without delay to the Secretary, S.P.R., 31
Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I. Should any tickets remain
unallotted after the 15th of October they will be distributed
among interested members of the public.
N.B.—Members and Associates who, having received tickets,
find later that they are unable to attend the meeting, are re-
quested kindly to return them to the Secretary as soon as possible.
NEW MEMBER.
Wilson, Stanley R. W., Lodge Farm, Wigginton, nr. Tring.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 261st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C.I, on Friday, the 5th of July, 1929, at
6 p.m. ; The President in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Mr. G. W. Lambert, The Hon. Mrs.
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr. V/. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
One new Member was elected. His name and address are
given above.
The President reported on the proceedings of the Frederic
W. H. Myers Memorial Lectiu-eship Committee, and put before
the Coimcil the Committee's proposals for the administration of
the Fund.
The Comicil passed a vote of thanlvS to Mr. Vinen for the
valuable assistance he had given in the Library during the past
eighteen months.
October, 1929 Meetings of the Council 14]
The 262nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, the 24th of July, 1929,
at 5 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddixgton in the chair. There were
also present : The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr. W. R. Bous-
field, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr. W. H. Salter, and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Li response to an application from Mr. Theron Pierce and
Mr. Bligh Bond, the Council granted the loan to them and to
Dr. Crandon of the Seance Room for a fortnight in December
on agreed conditions.
LOAN OF THE SOCIETY'S STANCE ROOM.
In the Journal for November 1928 (xxiv. 351) the Council
announced that the Society's Seance Room was available to
Members for miofficial Sittings. An application for a loan of
the Room for this purpose was recently received from two
Members, Mr. Theron Pierce and Mr. Bligh Bond, for sittings
to be held in the early part of December next, at which
" Margery " (Mrs. Crandon) would give a demonstration of her
phenomena. The Council have acceded to this request.
The Sittings, which will be quite imofficial, will be under the
management of Mr. Pierce, Mr. Bligh Bond, and Dr. Crandon,
but it was agreed that the Hon. Research Officer should be
entitled to attend as an observer only, and to nominate an
additional observer.
FOURTH INTERNATIONAL PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH CONGRESS.
This Congress will be held in Athens in April 1930, under the
Presidency of Dr. Hans Driesch. Any Members or Associates
wishing to attend the Congress or to read papers, are requested
to write as soon as possible to the Secretary of the English
Committee, Mrs. W. H. Salter, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square.
London, W.C.I, from whom farther particulars may be obtained.
142 Joarnal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1939
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURESHIP FUND.
LIST OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers - £250 0 0
L. H. Myers - - - - - 150 0 0
Anonymous ($500) - 102 18 5
Mrs. Blennerhassett - - - - 100 0 0
Stanley Shaw Bond - - -
50 0 0
Harold H. Myers 50 0 0
Mrs. Harold H. Myers 25 0 0
London Spiritualist Alliance, Ltd. 10 10 0
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. 10 0 0
Mrs. Augustus Hemenway ($2.5) 5 1 7
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour -
5 0 0
Lady Battersea - - - -
5 0 0
Mrs. Gaskell - - - -
5 0 0
Scatclierd Memorial Fund -
5 0 0
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick -
5 0 0
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 3 3 0
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Salter 3 3 0
Lady Butt 2 2 0
Dowager Lady Swaythling -
2 2 0
Major W. R. S. May -
2 0 0
Mrs. Abernethy - - - -
1 1 0
Countess of Bandon - - -
1 1 0
H. G. Bois (annual) - - -
1 1 0
Lady Albinia Donaldson 1 1 0
F. Elder ----- 1 1 0
Vereker M. Hamilton - - -
1 1 0
Beatrice Lady Portsmouth -
1 1 0
Miss Tenison . - - -
J
1 0
0 0
Mrs. Carpenter - - - - ^ 1 0 0
Rev. A. T. Fryer
:
}
0 0
Miss A. R. Marten -
0 0
Edward Grubb - - - -
0 10 6
Miss Edith L. Willis -
0 10 0
Richard Wood - - - -
0 10 0
£804 18 6
Deposit Interest 5 13 9
£810 12 3
INSTITUT MfiTAPSYCHIQUE INTERNATIONAL.
Our Members may be glad to know that the future of the
Institut has nov/ been assured by the generosity of M. Jean
October, 1929 Case 143
Meyer. He has made over to the Institut its House at 89
Avenue Niel, Paris, and has formed a limited company with a
capital of 4,000,000 francs as a permanent endowment of its
work. We congratulate the Institut on this happy develop-
ment and wish it success in its future activities.
CASE.
L. 1290. Telepathy at a Distance.
We print below a case of apparent telepathy, in which Mrs
Elliott was the percipient. It was first brought to our notice
by Sir Oliver Lodge. Writrug to Sir Oliver, Mrs. Hammond
[pseudonjTtn] described the incident in question in the following
words :
I bought Mrs. Elliott (nee Ortner) three night-dresses for a
birthday-present, one white, one salmon pink, and one pale pink,
without mentioning the fact to anyone. At 9.15 a.m. on the 5th
April (her birthday) she telephoned to thank me for the three
" nighties," and when I asked if she had already received them
she replied " No, but Mr. Hammond [deceased] has just shown
them to me, and told me that you chose three, one being white
and the other two of different shades." The parcel was not
delivered to her until 11.45 a.m. that day, and she has a reliable
witness to prove that it arrived at that hour !
I enclose my letter to her for you to see that I never gave her
the faintest clue as to the contents of the parcel, and this is the
first time that I have given her anything in the way of clothing
—it has always been money or flowers. . . . [Letter dated 6 April
1929.J
The relevant portion of Mrs. Hammond's letter to Mrs. Elliott is :
You will be receiving a parcel from Selfridge's, and I wish I
were there to enjoy your amusement at its contents ! I only hope
they will be to your taste, but if in any way you don"t approve,
will you please not hesitate to return them to me, as they have
promised to change them. [Letter dated 4 April, postmark 5 April,
1929.]
Mrs. Elliott's account of the incident follows :
On Friday morning, 5th April, 1929, I had a letter from Mrs.
Hammond with good wishes for my birthday. She said that she
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobek, 1929
was sending me a parcel from Selfridge's, and wished she could be
present to see me open it as she thought I would find its contents
" amusing." I read this letter at about 8 a.m.
At about 9 a.m. I had forgotten about this letter while reading
another from Sir Oliver Lodge, when Mr. Hammond suddenly
appeared and said
—" They are nightdresses Mrs. Hammond is
sending you."
Then he showed me a white one
—" and there are two other
shades," he said.
I looked at the clock and saw it was ten minutes past nine.
I went downstairs to ring up Mrs. Hammond at once in case
Selfridge's van might call.
Mr. HammomVs tests have always been correct otherwise I would
not have ventured to telephone this one.
I greeted Mrs. Hammond with the words
—" Thank you for the
nighties !
"
She said
—" Oh ! have they come ?
" and I replied " No !
"
She went on— Well, how do you know they are nighties ?
"
and I answered
—
" Mr. Hammond has just told me that you are sending nighties,
and that one is white and there are two of other shades." [Dated
10 June 1929.]
The following corroborative statement has been obtained from
Miss E. Simmon, Mrs. Elliott's daily maid :
On Friday morning, 5th April, I was working at Mrs. Elliott's
house, 48, Basing Hill, Golders Green, and saw Selfridge's Delivery
Van arrive at 11.45 a.m. The van man handed in a parcel which
Mrs. Elliott opened in my presence and this contained three night-
dresses—one white, one pale pink and one salmon-coloured. The
box was marked—" Not to be delivered before Friday." [Dated
10 June 1929.]
The pm:chase of the three nightgowns has been verified from
Messrs. Selfridge's original invoice, and the delivery instructions
on the parcel, together with the day and time of delivery,
w^hich was between 11.30 and 12.0 a.m. on the 5th of April,
from their Delivery Note and Remittance Release Slip ; the
latter particulars were fm^ther corroborated by a representative
of the firm.
It being thus apparently clear that Mrs. Elliott could not
October, 1929 Case 145
have had any normal knowledge of the natiire of the present
she was to receive (beyond the fact that it probably consisted
of articles of wear), nor any reason to anticipate it. how did
knowledge of the nightgowns and their colours reach Mrs.
Elliott's mind ? It is possible that, as Jirs. Elliott herseK
supposes, the spirit of Mr. Hammond acted as intermediary.
But as all the facts were known to Mrs. Hammond, and vividly
present in her consciousness in connection with Jlrs. Elliott and
the anticipated surprise the latter would receive on opening the
parcel, and as the two ladies are in rather close rapport, this
would rather seem to be a case of direct thought-transference
from Mrs. Hamynond to Mrs. Elliott. It is well known that
such telepathic impressions are often externahsed in the form
of spirit communications.
CORRESPONDEJsTE.
The Veley Scripts.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have read with interest Miss Dallas's comments on the
Margaret Veley case [Proceedings, xxx.viu. 28]. She agrees with
me that the scripts do not afford satisfactory evidence that the
surviving mind of ^largaret Veley was their author ; but it seems
to me that in her anxiety to find a spiritualistic interpretation at
all costs, Miss Dallas invents an entirely arbitrary hypothesis. She
says in efiect : Margaret Veley herself did not write these scripts ;
let us suppose therefore that the spirit of some other dead person
unknown wrote them. I presume from letter that she would
advance the same " explanation " in the Gordon Davis case.
Gordon Da-vds himself did not commimicate but some other (dead)
person tapped his mind. A similar argument was put forward by
j\Ir. E. W. Dusbury in Light [27 February, 1926, xlvi. 100] in
reference to the case of John Ferguson. Mr. Duxbury suggested
that though John Ferguson was clearly not the individual he
claimed to be he was an actual spirit who had been hypnotised
by the sitter into behaving as if he were the fictitious John
Ferguson !
Why, I ask, this constant and unjustified assumption that the
intelligence communicating must be that of some dead person 1
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1929
Why should it not be the subconscious part of the medium's or
sitter's mind ? Why must the hypothetical spirit of a dead person
be introduced at every juncture when there are living minds with
unexplored potentialities to draw upon for an explanation ?
It cannot be too strongly urged that until the invention of
arbitrary hypotheses of the agency of unknown departed spirits is
banned from psychical research no progress will be made. An
hypothesis in science to have any value must lead somewhere and
give us some intellectual control over the phenomena we are
studying. It is surely wiser to admit ignorance than to invent
sterile hypotheses which lead nowhere.
Yours, etc.
S. G. SOAL.
OBITUARY.
Richard Baerwald.
Psychical research in Germany has sustained another loss
through the death of Dr. Richard Baerwald, which occurred in.
Berlin in May last after a long illness.
To Dr. Baerwald's able pen belong (in addition to important
contributions to normal psychology), two important works bearing
on our researches : the second volume, devoted to the mental
phenomena, of Okultisnius in UrJcunden (Berlin 1925, reviewed
in Proceedings, xxxvi. 340), and Okultismus und Spiritismus
(Berlin 1926, reviewed in Journal, xxiii. 99 and xxiv. 289).
Dr. Baerwald was thoroughly sceptical about the physical
phenomena and also about clairvoyance, as contradictory of his
Weltanschauung, which excluded both belief in a future life and
of every transcendent faculty supposed, by some, to belong to
the human " soul." In telepathy, on the contrary, he did
believe, and seems to have viewed it as a physical faculty pure
and simple. It is significant of his mentality that in Die
intellel'tuellen Phdnomene, on the whole a capital work, the main
part of his efiort as critic of the experiments cited is devoted
not so much to the attempt to disprove the hypothesis of
fraud as by the endeavour to show that explanation by thought-
transference is adequate as against the clairvoyance theory.
To say this is not by any means to disparage Dr. Baerwald's
work. ...
October, 1929 Review 147
For some three years he was Editor of the Zeitschrift fiir
hritischen Okkultismus, which unfortnaately ceased to appear in
1928. As a frequent contributor to that review I had often
the occasion to correspond with Dr. Baerwald (whom I never
saw), and of this intercourse I have preserved the best possible
recollection. I am sorry he is no more. Sit ei terra levis.
P.-P.-S.
REVIEW.
Case Studies Bearing upon Survival. By John F. Thomas.
Boston Society for Psychic Piesearch, 346 Beacon Street,
Boston. 1929. 8vo. pp. 150. Price, $1.50.
This volume is the first instalment of what promises to be a
very important investigation. Mr. Thomas tells us that he had
been interested in psychical research and read a good deal on the
subject for more than thirty years before his wife died in 1926,
but it was only after that that he began seriously to investigate per-
sonally. He had sittings with Mrs. Soule of Boston in July 1926,
and between then and the end of March 1929 had had in person
or by proxy 214 sittings with seventeen different mediums, viz. :
Mrs. Soule and sixteen mediums in London. These were all fully
recorded, and the present volume gives extracts from these records
showing knowledge acquired, to all appearance supernormally,
arranged as twenty-four " Cases "'
under different heads according
to the subject referred to, and selected as representative of the
whole material. The principal communicator purported to be Mr.
Thomas's deceased wife, and knowledge is shown of her charac-
teristics, physical and mental, of places, events, and people they
had both known and of present circumstances concerning himself.
Mr. Thomas was himself the sitter on 101 occasions, and on 93
others the sitting was held on his behalf by a secretary-steno-
grapher not at any time acquainted with the communicator. In
the remaining 16 the sitter was usually his son, J. G. Thomas, and
in four Dr. J. B. Rhine or Dr. Louise Rhine. Counting the four
different secretary-stenographers employed there were nine sitters
in all.
Mr. Thomas tells us that this " present publication is, in every
sense, merely a preliminary report "
(p. 11), and he adds (p. 149)
that he intends " to submit later the results of a second study of
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1920
these mediumistic experiments which is to be made as a problem
in Psychology." With a view to this he is studying in the psy-
chological department of Duke University, North Carolina. The
amount of his material, the unity provided by a single investigator,
combined with the variety in mediums, sitters, and conditions,
should furnish a rich field for examination, and with an investi-
gator of Mr. Thomas's perseverance and carefulness, we may hope
that considerable light may be thrown on the process and origin of
communication. E. M. S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Incidents and Discussions. Boston Society for Psychic Eesearch
(Bulletin X). April 1929. Svo. pp. 100, 2 facsimiles. Price,
$1.00.
This number contains, besides business notices of the Boston
Society, accounts of a number of spontaneous and experimental
psychical experiences, telepathic, premonitory, and other, of varying
degrees of interest and evidential value, but all worth recording.
More than half the little volume, however, is occupied by a careful
examination by Dr. Walter F. Prince of " Tests for Historicity
"
in the case of three publications, viz. : The Archho Volume, edited
by W. D. Mahan, printed in 1913 ;
" A Prophecy made in 1732,"
published in the Home Magazine (Washington) in 1900 ; and The
Scripts of Cleophas, published in London in 1928. The first two
are effectively shown to be literary forgeries not written at the
dates claimed for them. The last is in a different category. It
is automatic writing by the hand of Miss Geraldine Cummins, and
claims to be inspired by " Cleophas," an early Christian, contem-
porary of the Apostles. There is no reason to suspect any
intentional deception on the part of Miss Cummins, for automatic
writing is, as we know, liable to produce dream stuff. But Dr.
Prince gives reasons from internal evidence of the script for be-
lieving that the author was not a Jew of the first century a.d.
He makes historical mistakes which a Jew of that date would not
have made. The knowledge shown of the English language we
may of course attribute to the automatist, but it is curious that
archaic forms (not always correct) should be used, even allowing
for her knowledge of the Authorised Version of the Bible. Those
who are interested in the Scripts of Cleophas should certainly read
Dr. Prince's criticism. E. M. S.
OCTOBEK, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 149
^(•i(u<at E/3€i'i'at, January-December 1928.
This " metapsychical review " is the official organ of the Greek
Society for Psychical Research : it was founded in 1925, but the
present volume is the first which has come under our notice. It
is clear that Dr. Angelos Tanagra and the group of fellow-en-
thusiasts in Athens who were responsible for the establishment of
the society and its journal have had many difficulties to contend
I with, and they are to be congratulated u^^on their courageous
attempt. That science in Greece has not yet escaped from theo-
logical tutelage is indicated by the prominence given in this volume
to a series of articles on the biological evidence for the existence
of God, and also by the somewhat superfluous vehemence with
which nineteenth century materialism is elsewhere denounced. In
another article the spiritistic hypothesis is rejected on the similar
ground that habitual intercourse with spirits liberated from the
f
body would lead to widespread suicide and thereby frustrate the
design of Providence. But it must be remembered that science in
the Balkans is still in its infancv, and that its friends are com-
pelled to walk warily. The most interesting of the articles in this
journal deal with a series of experiments in long-distance tele-
1
pathy between a group of members of the Greek S.P.R. at Athens
and a group of members of the Institut Metapsychique at Paris
under the direction of M. WarcoUier. Some striking successes are
claimed, and it is to be hoped that a complete record of all the
experiments, successful and otherwise, will be made available later.
Telepathic powers would seem to be unusually common in Greece :
one writer, dealing with experiments in telepathy between different
classes in a school, organised by the masters, claims that ten
school-children in fifty possess such powers in a recognisable
degree ; but the details given are insufficient to enable me to
judge whether this is so or not. Other articles deal with experi-
ments in clairvoyance, with experimental study of the effects of
i the Mexican drug peyotl, and with the sensational story of the
Spetsa hauntings (which is explained by a theory of " psychic
traces " plus telepathy plus ectoplasm). We hope that the Greek
S.P.R. will have a long and successful career, and that it will not
allow prejudice or persecution to divert it from the path of strict
impartiality and opeu-mindedness.
E. R. D.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1929
Revue MetapsycJdqiie, May-June 1929.
M. de Vesme begins an interesting study of " Obsession and
Possession in tlie Far East and in Uncivilised Countries." The
evidence adduced in this first instalment and borrowed almost
exclusively from the Rev. John L. Nevius's Demon Possession (New
York 1893 [sic, read Chicago, etc. 1894]) does not imply more than
auto-suggestion or suggestion, but we are apparently to expect
more impressive testimony (chiefly from Eoman Catholic sources)
further on (p. 183).
The French text of M. Jules Courtier's letter to Herr Lambert
on Busapia recently printed in Zeitschrift fur Parafsychologie in
German translation is given verbatim [cp. Journal xxv. 136],
Dr. Foveau de Courmelles prints a short note on " The Memory
of Matter," and M. Frank Grand] ean, Professor of Philosophy at
Geneva University, has a long paper on Le ';noi' et le 'je\"
being a lecture delivered under the auspices of the Centre inter-
national permanent de recherches psychiques. The connection of
both these productions with our researches is of the slightest.
M. Grand] can's negative attitude towards William James's theories
should be noted. M. Charles Quartier's reviews of books are as
usual excellent reading. In the Chronique a long letter is printed
in which Dr. Crandon of Boston answers at length M. Maire's
critical remarks about Margery " in the January-February num-
ber of the Revue (cp. Journal, xxv. 97), M. Maire replying in
footnotes. Dr. Crandon's arguments are not always above criti-
cism and on one particular point are almost suspiciously feeble.
An apparently telepathic dream occurring to an American living
in Paris is printed. If no practical joke was played on M.
Charles Quartier, which hypothesis the latter rejects, the case may
be regarded by some as interesting.
Experiments with Frau Lotte Plaat are quoted by M. Maire,
who seems favourably impressed by Dr. Siinner's report on this
" sensitive."
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung, June 1929.
Dr. Christoph Schroder has another instalment of his paper on
the " Metaplasma-Phanomenik," with photographic plates, most—if
not all—of which are already known (and look decidedly suspicious).
The names of many old friends adorn the paper, such as those of
Eusapia Palladino, Florence Cook, " Katie King," Mrs. d'Esperance,
October, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 151
etc. An interesting incident is quoted from the Bottazzi seances
with Eusapia in April-May 1907, at Naples, when a " materialised
"
hand melted away in Prof. Bottazzi's grasp. Such episodes have
always seemed to me to present a certain difficulty in the way of
a natural explanation of teleplasmic " phenomena."
The English Cross-correspondences are again discussed by Dr.
Mattiesen.
Here Driessen narrates mysterious raps which frequently occur in
his presence and which have sometimes shown an intelligent pur-
pose. Some may possibly be explained, judging from what the
writer says, by practical jokes played by young people living in
the same house ; whether all can be so explained is another
matter. The writer (a former judge) has also experienced dreams
of an apparently supernormal character, as Dr. Schroder informs us
in another place (p. 190).
The last mentioned writer describes what may have been a good
case of spirit identity occurring at a spiritistic seance. The inci-
dent is, however, at best, second-hand and nearly ten years old.
The mysterious case of Abbe Vachere is discussed by Dr.
Schroder in a review of the German publications connected with
psychical research, a propos of Dr. Henri Birven's book dealing
with the Abbe. This case must be admitted to be most curious.
Zeitschrift fur ParapsycJwlogie, July 1929.
General Peter prints a detailed summary of Signer Bozzano's
new paper on the Millesimo " direct voices " and other phenomena
in Luce e Otnbra. I may be permitted to point out, with all
respect to the distinguished owner of the castle and his friends,
that these " manifestations " have every appearance of being but
another instance of misdirected human ingenuity (an ingenuity of
a very elementary kind).
Herr Schuppe, of Berlin, has a paper on Herr Melzer's (of
Dresden) " convincing spontaneous phenomena "'
(apports of flowers
and stones). Alas, they seem to me, on the contrary, altogether
inconclusive. The same category of supposed phenomena is the
subject of another paper by a Herr Selt, who propounds to explain
them a theory which will be entitled to every consideration when
we have at our disposal one well attested case.
Dr. Ludwig, of Freising, narrates a case of /SpMA-phenomena
occurring in Austria in 1900-1901 and described to him by a
15 2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1929
Roman Catholic priest in 1927. From the S.P.R. standpoint this
case is therefore unsatisfactory evidentially speaking, which on
account of some of its features is to be regretted.
Dr. V. A. Reko, of Mexico, contributes a short paper on Peyotl
(which he apparently prefers to write " Peyote "")
; Dr. Gustav
Zeller discusses the dangers of anthroposophy (a propos of the
recent murder of Dr. Carl Unger in Nuremburg) and Dr. Bohm of
Niiremburg attempts to prove that " parapsychical j)lienomena
"
have their origin in a normal faculty, though chiefly remaining
latent, j^roper to every living being ; whilst " paraphysical pheno-
mena " represent unusual manifestations of intellectual disharmonies
and suppressed instincts. The same writer addresses in rather
severe terms Herr Neumann, Theresa Neumann's father, whom he
accuses of preventing by his obstinate refusals scientific investiga-
tion of his daughter in a clinic. A recent trial for libel d propos
of Konnersreuth which took place in Munich, both parties (Herr
von Lama and Dr. Aigner) being fined by the Court, is briefly
narrated. The latter gentleman prints a short article vigorously
criticising the ignoring of Theresa Neumann's phenomena by almost
the whole of the German medical world.
Herr Otto Seeling, of Berlin, discusses a recent ordinance of the
Prussian Home Secretary forbidding the police authorities to avail
themselves — at least directly —of the services of professional
" criminal-clairvoyants." Contrary to expectation, Herr Seeling
seems to be somewhat in sympathy with this ordinance.
Herr D. Walter, of Graz, has a short paper on Prof. Zollner,
whom he knew personally, and asserts that this scientist was not
of unsound mind when he died ; and personal apparently super-
normal exj^eriences, some of them interesting, are related by Frau
S. Riedl of Freising and the Baroness M. Veszi-Mantica of Florence.
Franek Kluski's mediumship is spoken of in very high terms by
Herr Geldnerth vdien reviewing Colonel Okolowicz's book about the
Polish medium. P.-P.-S.
Proceedings of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research, vol. i.,
part ii., April 1929.
This Part consists entirely of a short-title catalogue of Mr.
Price's library of works on conjuring and kindred subjects. Among
these works are many that bear directly and indirectly on psy-
chical research, and this catalogue therefore deserves a warm
October, 1929 Notes on Periodicals 153
welcome, as does any publication that helps to systematise the
still inchoate fields traversed by psychical research. Eeaders should
note, however, that this is a short-title catalogue, and they should
not look in it for the full and careful description of each item
provided in the S.P.R.'s catalogues. From the bibliographical and
practical points of view, indeed, the present catalogue leaves much
to be desired. The information given is frequently insufficient for
identification ; it is impossible to distinguish articles and pamphlets
from books ; and the dating of the earlier works is decidedly
optimistic. Numerous title-pages and illustrations are reproduced.
The British Journal of Psychical Research, May-June 1929.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas inquires into the nature of an
emanation said to be positively correlated to the process of trance
communication. Miss Crookes publishes two supernormal experi-
ences of an Irish lady apparently resident in New Zealand, one a
telepathic dream and the other a phantasm of the living ; each
incident is to some extent corroborated. Mr. Neil Gow reflects on
the control of physical mediums at test-seances. He complains
that investigators still attribute the physical phenomena they wit-
ness to fraud even after having obtained all required control of
the medium. To meet this situation he proposes that investigators
should, under such circumstances, be obliged to sign a declaration
concluding, " We declare we were unable to detect any kind of
fraud, trickery or subterfuge." But Mr. Gow does not seem to
perceive that such a declaration would not in the least meet his
case, which is that fraud is sometimes alleged in cases where it
admittedly remains mh detected.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
July 1929.
The chief article in this number is contributed by Mrs. McKenzie
on Mr. T. Lynn, an apport medium. The article is illustrated with
photographs which show that the apports are always connected by
means of wires or rods (normal or supernormal) with the medium's
body. Mrs. Helen C. Lambert publishes " A Case of Psychic
Healing " of hay-fever. Mr. De Brath writes on the problem of
survival in relation to Myers and to recent developments.
Psychic Research, June 1929.
Dr. Crandon publishes, with comments, the record of his sitting
in December 1928 with Mrs. Leonard. He states that cross-
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1920
correspondences were obtained between Mrs. Leonard and Margery.
Even giving the term " cross-correspondence " the very wide mean-
ing unfortunately becoming general in America, there is no evidence
for this in the report of Dr. Crandon's sitting. Indeed, the only
supernormal matter obtained consists of a few slight and doubtful
instances of thought-transference from the sitter to the medium.
Dr. Crandon's much more substantial claims are based on the
mistaken assumption that Mrs. Leonard has no normal knowledge
of events in Dr. and Mrs. Crandon's house. Dr. Burns continues
his studies in apparent obsession. Mr. Bird reprints Mr. Dingwall's
recent article on "The Crisis in Psychical Research" (cp. Journal,
XXV. 136), to which he adds some very sensible comments of his
own. But Mr. Bird is surely a little too positive when he declares
that it is " Fairly obvious to any clear-sighted student that this
pronouncement [that there is no genuine physical mediumship] is an
erroneous one "
(p. 324). M. Sudre describes Victor Hugo's dab-
bling in spiritualism during his exile in Jersey.
Psychic Research, July 1929.
Mr. Bird begins what promises to be a somewhat superfluously
lengthy survey of the current status of the Schneider mediumship.
He seems to be cautiously working round to the conclusion that
the Schneiders are fraudulent. About half of the present instal-
ment consists of a partial reprint of Mr. Vinton's article in Psyche,
of which Mr. Bird, on the whole, approves. But was it really
necessary to enter in such detail into the question of Mr. Vinton's
personal morality ? Mr. Burns publishes further studies in ap-
parent obsession. M. Sudre comments favourably on Mr. Salter's
and Mr. F.'s treatment of the Margaret Veley case. Mr. David
Gow contributes a tolerant and moderate defence of spiritualism.
Th. B.
EXPERIMENTS IN CARD GUESSING.
Appeal for Further Help.
Some interesting possibilities having appeared from a further
analysis of the card-guessing experiments reported on in Pro-
ceediyigs (1928-9), xxxviii. ''2'23ff,
Miss Jephson would be grateful
for help in collecting further data for another experiment. The
experiment takes only a few minutes and can be done at home
at any time. Directions and scoring sheet can be obtained from
Miss Jephson, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.
No. 459.—Vol. XXV. " - November 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
TUESDAY., the lyth of December ig2g, at j.jo p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"SOME HAUNTED HOUSES"
WILL BE READ BY
Prof. F. J. M. STRATTON, D.S.O.
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates witl be admitted on signing tlieir names at llie door.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1929
NEW MEMBERS.
Baggallay, Mrs H. L., 23 Pelham Place, London, S.W. 7.
Coulthard, Canon H. R., The Vicarage, Breage, Helston, Cornwall.
Foy, H. W., Caixa 3005, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Godsal, W., Haines Hill, Twyford, Berks.
Kephren, Mile. Ketty, 71 Avenue de Saxe, Lyon, France.
Librarian, The John Rylands Library, Manchester.
Luck, Mrs, The Hermitage, West Mailing, Kent.
Montaner, Sebastian, Via Layetana 47, Barcelona, Spain.
Seymour, Lieut-Coi. C. R. F., Ivydene, 30 Park Avenue, Sandy-
mount, Dublin.
Sturt, H. H., St Helen's Court, Singapore, Straits Settlements.
Zeigler, Major G. H., Springfield, Breinton, Hereford.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 263rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Friday the 18th of October 1929, at 2.45 p.m.,
The President in the Chair. There were also present : Mr E. N.
Bennett, Mr W. R. Bousfield, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr J. G. Piddington,
Mr W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G.
Soal and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian
and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Council agreed, at Dr Crandon's request, that the Hon.
Research Officer only should be entitled to be present, in addition
to those invited by Dr Crandon, at the unofficial demonstration
sittings to be given by Mrs Crandon in the Society's seance-ioom.
The Monthly Accounts for July, August and September 1929,
were presented and taken as read.
THE SUPPLY OF BOOKS AND INFORMATION.
Members and Associates are reminded that the Society is affiliated
to the Central Library for Students and to the Association of Special
Libraries. Through these organisations the Society is able to obtain
for its Members and Associates, free of cost, information and the
loan of books on all subjects. The Society, in turn, undertakes to
November 1929 TIlc Sv/pply of Books and Information 157
supply all required books and information on psychical research to
its fellow members of the Central Library and of the Association.
This development in cooperative Librarianship for the first time
enables the individual to obtain information on any subject easily
and quickly. Queries should be addressed to the Librarian, S.P.R.,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
PAINTINGS OF HYPNAGOGIC VISIONS.
In her " Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena " {Pro-
ceedings, XXXV. 287 ff.) Mrs Leaning refers more than once to the
hypnagogic visions of the late Lady Berkeley (cp. xxxv. 321, 333, 339,
346-7, 361 ["a correspondent"]). The special interest of these
visions lies in the fact that Lady Berkeley put them on record, in
water-coloiurs, as soon as possible after the vanishing of the figures,
and Mrs Leaning thinks that the resulting collection of sketches is
imique. A selection of these paintings has now been presented to
the Society by Sir Ernest Berkeley and Mr Claude Berkeley, through
the intermediary of Mrs Leaning. The Society is greatly indebted
to the donors for a valuable contribution to the study of hypnagogic
phenomena.
CASE.
L. 1291. A Case of Telepathy.
Mrs Sidgwick writes :
My nieces Miss Mary and Miss Eve Balfour have a farm at
Haughley near Stowmarket in Suffolk. Mary is at present travelling
in the United States of America and on May 10, 1929, as shown by
the postmarks, she sent picture post cards to the foreman on the
farm, Mr Aldous, and the members of his large yoimg family. In a
letter (undated) she wrote from Philadelphia to Mrs Wakefield, the
old nurse of my nieces who lives with them, as follows :
" Here's another message for Eve. I was reminded of it by your
saying my p.c.s [post cards] had arrived. Rather a funny thing
happened about them. There may be nothing in it, but just for
curiosity's sake I wish Eve would try to find out if Bert Aldous
ever received his. I went to a big circus one night here (I'll look up
the date in my diary and write it at the end of this letter) the kind
of circus that comes to Stow only ten times larger. As we were
leaving—I was with a few [Philadelphia] friends—about 2 a.m. and
the crowd so thick we could only exit out of the Marquee at a snail's
pace, I heard some one say behind me, '
Perhaps it got lost in the
post, because she sent a post card to all the others '
—well the voice
158 Journal of Society Jar Psychical Research November 1929
was so like that of Mrs Aldous that I turned round quite startled.
I couldn't see who had spoken, but I did see a boy that was such an
exact copy of Bert that I nearly greeted him. This boy was saying,
'
I think she might have sent one to me.' Naturally enough I
thought of my p.c.s and natvu'ally enough I wondered if they had
all arrived, for I certainly left no one out. [Reasons here given for
being sure of this.] Bert's p.c. if I remember right was an old house
on the [illegible name] Creek. Just for fun try and find out if
every one got a p.c. and if not make it known I sent to everybody.
I see the elate of the circus was May 24th—2 a.m. here, would be
about breakfast time the next morning at home. I can't remember
when I sent the p.c.s, so don't know if this was about the time of
arrival or not. ..."
Eve Balfour made the enquiry suggested, and wrote on June 22>
1929 :
" The telepathy case really interesting. Before telling Aldous
about it, I asked if any of them had not got a p.c, and he said
Bert hadn't. I asked him if they had talked aboiit it, and he said
yes they had discussed it at breakfast, and wondered if, as there
were so many, she had forgotten him. ..."
An effort was afterwards made to get at the date of the receipt of
the post cards from the post marks, but failed because they were
not post-marked at this end of their journey. Later Eve Balfour
discussed the probable date of receipt with Aldous and writes
September 12, 1929 :
" As far as I can make out, the Aldous family received Mary's
post cards on the morning of May 24th.
" The data [are] as follows. Aldous is almost sure that they
came on a Friday, he also remembers saying at the time that the
cards had been a long time coming. The cards are post-marked
May 10th. This is also a Friday so I conclude that it was exactly
a fortnight later that they were received. I can't remember Mary's
dates now. I wonder how this fits in."
It appears therefore that there is no clear evidence for coincidence
in time between the disappointment of Bert Aldous and Mary
Balfour's experience. If Aldous's recollection that the cards arrived
on Friday morning. May 24th, is correct, their receipt must have
preceded Mary's experience by about 24 hours. If, however, they
were received on Saturday morning the 25th, the coincidence
between the two events would have been almost exact. It is, of
course, possible that, though the cards arrived on Friday, it was
only when the post came in on Satmxlay morning that Bert Aldous
gave up hope that a card was coming for him.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
November 1929 Non- Veridical Cross-Correspondences 159
NON-VEEIDICAL CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES.
By H. F. Saltmarsh.
A NOTICE appeared iu the Journal for March 1929 (xxv. 49) asking
if any reader could throw light on a non-veridical correspondence
which had occurred between a sitting with Mrs Warren Elliott in
London and two sittings with Mrs Dowdall at Cardiff.
The Elliott sitting was of the Absent Sitter kind, that is, the
note-taker alone was present, the sitter being represented by a relic.
The communications which came through were tmrecognisable by
the contributor of the relic, and it was only after some months that
there was found that a considerable number of the statements were
veridical for another contributor, Miss X.
In the meantime Miss X. had had two ordinary " sitter present
"
sittings with Mrs Dowdall at Cardiif, at each of which her com-
municator had purported to communicate. It is not completely
certain that Miss X. had not seen the record of the Elliott sitting
before going to Cardiff, but there is little doubt that she had not.
Assuming this to be the case the important fact is that no one
had recognised the Elliott sittings as being relevant to Miss X.
until after the Cardiff sittings had taken place. The veridical
matter in all sittings might have been derived from the mind of
Miss X., but the correspondences now in question are non-veridical
and consequently could hardly have been in her mind. The chance
that two independent mediums should both make the same four
erroneous statements in connection with the same person is extremely
small. The statements were as follows :
Mrs Warren Elliott: 17 June Mrs Dowdall : 16 November 1927.
1927. " I get the name Gerald, some-
" Him speaks of somebody, Ger- one calling Gerald quite strongly
aldine, done'd well. Perhaps and I can hear music with him.
him means done well with music, I think he was either very fond
cos Topsy me heard him say of music or had something to do
music then, only just music with music on the battlefield."
alone. Music student, student,
perhaps its Geraldine was music
student ; doesn't know what
him means, get music student.
17 November 1927.
" Me thinks that gentleman very " Was he very interested in the
interested in stars and things, stars ? (Sitter : No.) He seems
ieeps on pointing to stars and to be interested in them now.
things.
Him was bookworm, book- Could your father speak lan-
-worm. Him used to read in guages ? (Sitter : No.) What
KiO Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1929
funny language, funny writing, are these funny letters then ? I
Looks like no letters at all." see him writing like little crooks,
funny letters, twists and turns.
Almost like shorthand but it
isn't that."
In the Warren Elliott sitting and in the earlier Dowdall sitting
there are references to India and in all three sittings commimica-
tions purport to come from Miss X.'s father.
I estimate as minimum probabilities that one in five persons know
fairly intimately some one called Gerald or Geraldine, that one
person in three may be said to be interested in music or to be a
student of music, that one in five may be said to be interested in the
stars and that one in fifty persons read or write the funny writing
as described. This last estimate, if shorthand is excluded, as is
implied in the Dowdall sitting, is almost certainly very considerably
understated. The references to India seem to suggest that Hindu-
stani or some other Eastern script is referred to ; the description
would fit Arabic and Turkish but not Chinese, where the characters
are more angular, nor German cursive script, Greek or Russian, as
these employ more ordinary looking letters. The communicator is
obviously not a native of the East, and the number of persons
other than those of Eastern race who read or write in such languages
is relatively small, being confined mainly to Anglo-Indians in this
country. Certainly not one in fifty of the population of England
could do so. The combined probability is therefore
1/5x 1/3x 1/5x 1/50 = 1/3750.
I assume that the notice in the Journal has been read by 500
people ; there should be therefore one chance in 7| that one of the
readers would find complete correspondence. Actually there have
been three replies to the notice, none of which, however, shows
complete correspondence. They are as follows : I. Miss N. :
(1) Knows a Geraldine ; (2) who is a teacher of music ; (3) a friend
of Miss M. is interested in the stars ; (4) and had to do with code
writing. II. Mr. H. W. :
(1) Knows a Gerald ; (2) who was not
particularly interested in music ; (3) Mr H. W. is interested in the
stars ; (4) and has had to do with cypher writing. III. Mr C. W. :
(1 ) Has a daughter Geraldine aged 5| years ; (2) She sings by ear ;
(3) Mr C. W. is interested in the stars ; (4) and uses shorthand.
Number I : the first items may be considered as correct ; as
regards the last, this cannot be considered as a coincidence as the
writing used in the code was ordinary letters. Number II : (1) and
(3) are correct, (2) incorrect, (4) is a partial success ; in a few of the
cyphers arbitrary symbols were used, but there is no evidence to
show that these signs are correctly described as " little crooks.
NovEMBEE 1929 Non- Veridical Cross-Gorrespondences 161
twists and turns." I estimate this as a one-fourth success. Number
III : the Geraldine mentioned in the sitting is clearly older than
5|- years, but I count this as a partial success owing to the name
being correct, say one-half success. The singing by ear can hardly
be considered as a corresjDondence with " interested in music " or
" student of music." Shorthand is expressly excluded in the
Dowdall sitting, but I count this as a partial success, say one-fourth.
I evaluate these as follows. Number I: 5x3x5=75 out of
3750 ; number II : 5 x 5 x 121 = 312 out of 3750 ; number III :
2| X 5f X 12| = 156 out of 3750. We have therefore three partial
successes, one of one-twelfth, one of one twenty-fourth, and one of
one-fiftieth. This is roughly what might have been expected from
pure chance. We are left therefore, with the original problem still
unsolved.
If we accept as a fact, though it is not completely certain, that
Miss X. had not seen the record of the Elliott sitting before going to
Cardiff, any explanation based on the hypothesis that Mrs Dowdall
derived the information from her mind seems to be excluded, though
I suppose that one might cover the facts by telepathy by stretching
coincidence to its limit. Suppose, for instance, that the notetaker
at the Elliott sitting or someone who read the record, subconsciously
and telepathically transmitted the facts to Miss X., who subcon-
sciously recognised their relevance to her father and preserved a
subconscious memory of the whole, from which Mrs Dowdall drew
her information. There is, however, nothing to show that anything
in the record struck anyone as being relevant to Miss X. or her
communicator until she herself noticed it ; in fact, the nature of
the relevant statements is such that a very detailed knowledge of her
family affairs, such as Miss X. alone would possess, would have been
necessary for the relevance to be observed. We must suppose then
that the telepathic transmission to Miss X. was due to pure
chance.
Alternatively we might suppose that Miss X. clairvoyantly read
the record of the Elliott sitting and noticed the relevance to her
father before going to Cardiff. Why her clairvoyant faculty, if she
possess one, for which there is no evidence, should be turned in this
particular direction is not clear, unless we postulate some external
agent who was cognisant of the facts. The most suitable agent
would seem to be her deceased father.
There appears to be no other possible connecting link. If, how-
ever, we postulate the agency of her deceased father to direct her
assumed clairvoyance, we might better adopt the more simple
hypothesis of spirit-communication which requires only the same
postulate. Once we admit the possibility of communication with
the surviving spirit of her deceased father, we have the required
162 Joti^rnal of Society for Psychical Research November 1929
link between tlie two sittings, though it is not apparent why these
irrelevant details should have been given on both occasions. We
might perhaps suggest that they were relevant to the communicator
though unknown to his daughter, though this seems rather unlikely.
Alternatively we might suppose that they referred to some other
personality who accompanied Miss X.'s father at both sittings.
This, however, seems rather far-fetched and there does not, from
our point of view, appear to be any reasonable cause for the intrusion
of this irrelevant matter. Still, we are so completely ignorant of the
conditions which prevail " on the other side," if another side exists
at all, that it is idle to speculate. In all probability our point of
view is not applicable at all. Telepathic commmiication between
the two mediums seems to be so unlikely as to be barred out. Mrs
Elliott had no apparent knowledge that her sitting referred to
Miss X., nor that the sitting with Mrs Dowdall was taking place.
The position appears to be that none of the suggested hypotheses
covers the facts satisfactorily and we are, therefore, compelled to
adopt the attitude of suspension of judgment and to relegate the
case to the class of inexplicable phenomena, at least for the present.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Spiritualistic Hypothesis.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Mr Soal in his reply to Miss Dallas has again raised the issue
that the spiritualistic hypothesis is a hindrance to advance in
psychical research. May I remind him and other readers that this
contention has been fully answered by Dr Schiller in Proceedings
(1901-3), xvii. 248-251 ?
Dr Schiller maintains that to attribute extraordinary retentive-
ness and creativeness to the subconsciousness is to formulate an
hypothesis which is no more reasonable and no more evidentially
established than the spiritualistic hypothesis. He maintains that
from the point of view of the orthodox psychologist there is nothing
to choose between the two theories.
Dr Schiller further suggests that the spiritualistic hypothesis has
methodological advantages over the subconscious self theory. He
points out that the adoption of the former hypothesis avoids the
alienation of the medium, and that it is further " more stimulating
and encouraging, and therefore more likely to bring out the full
powers of the medium." Dr Schiller also refers to the fact that
communications take the spiritualistic form even in cases where the
medium rejects this interpretation, and he instances some experi-
November 1929 Corresponchnce 163
ments of his brother. And, I might add, Mr Soal's own automatic
verse ^ is a strilving illustration of this tendency.
Yours etc.,
Isabel Kingsley.
The Conditions of Control at Sittings for Physical
Phenomena.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—j\Ir Price's interesting account [see below, p. 170] of his
sittings with Rudi Schneider in London in April 1929 raises the
question : Are all the persons present at the sitting to be controlled
or the medium alone ? I answer emphatically : The medium alone.
The sitters must be selected with the greatest care. But once so
selected they must be presumed honest. Of course mistakes are
possible : I know it well, I who have passed through the " Cham-
berlain X." experience. 2 But such xmfortimate incidents are
inseparable from human activity in general. I will compare them
to railway, motor-car and aviation accidents, which happen every
day, but which in a sense are regarded as non-existent (time-tables,
etc.).
Those taking part in spiritualistic sittings of a more or less serious
nature, must be considered in the same way. Once they are admitted,
their hona-fides is to be regarded as beyond doubt. Should this
assumption prove false, we have before us but another variety of
the " railway accident " species. Of course sitters who act as the
medium's " next friend," who follow the medium as his or her
shadow, are to be treated differently ;
being the medium's alter ego
they must be subjected to practically the same kind of control.
I very much hope the electrical control will definitely prove to be
conclusive and satisfactory. But it is at least superfluous to apply
it to people necessarily supposed to be honest (otherwise they 7nust
not take part in the sitting). Of course electrical control, if applied
to six, eight or ten people at once instead of to one individual only,
is likely at first glance to savour more of scientific methods, but this
is a delusion, not to say a trompe-Vceil. At a certain sitting with the
late Guzik held in Paris five or six years ago, some thirty people,
some of them of much scientific eminence, were, I believe, tied to
1 []VIr Soal now allows it to be known that he is the Mr Y. of the Oscar
Wilde and Margaret Veley cases. Ed.]
2 [This is the case of an educated and cultured official in the Russian Foreign
Office, who systematically, and apparently in complicity with a series of
mediums, simulated supposedly supernormal ph_ysical phenomena. This case
has been several times described by Count Pe'rovsky, most recently in his
^'Xamenlose Betriiger ? Zeitschrift fiir kritischen "Okkultismus (Stuttgart
J 927), ii. 249-258. Ed.]
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1929
each other ; this does not prevent Guzik's " mediumship " from
remaining as doubtful as it ever was.
Should the sitters really be regarded as requiring to be controlled,
I will then suggest that electrical tying of the hands and feet is not
enough. How about the mouth ? How about possible apports ? A
special group of " super-sitters," if I may so call them, would have
to be created and entrusted with the watching and searching of
those present ; but here I will ask : Quis custodial custodes ? The
investigation of physical phenomena is sufficiently difficult already
not to complicate it further. Let the medium be very closely
watched ; let every kind of reasonable method be used to prevent
cheating ; let everything be done to induce the phenomena to occur
under conditions enabling exact observation ; let us be extremely
careful in the choice of those who are to attend the sitting, but
away with all pseudo-scientific paraphernalia which merely tend to
obscure the main issue.
Yours, etc.,
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
REVIEWS.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica. Fourteenth edition.
Psychical research must reckon itself lucky not to have been
" modernised " and " humanised " altogether out of existence in
the new Britannica, which has suffered many a sad sea-change in
its passage across the Atlantic. Not the least of these is the intro-
duction of misprints (practically non-existent in the old Britannica).
Mr Salter's article (see below), for instance, contains at least half-a-
dozen.
A comparison of the present edition with the eleventh, the last
complete one, shows that the general tendency has been to cut
down substantially the total space given to the subject, and to
follow a policy of centralisation. The main article under " Psychical
Research " now covers the whole subject is as much detail as can
be expected in the space, and the minor headings have accordingly
been drastically reduced.
Thus (to mention only the articles bearing most directly on
psychical research), while Andrew Lang's articles on " Apparitions
"
and " Second Sight," and Professor McDougall's on " Trance " are
substantially retained, though the two former now have a rather
archaic flavour, like so many of Lang's writings on psychical
research, Podmore on " Premonitions " and the anonymous " Fire-
walking " have been reduced to a few lines. Lang's articles on
" Crystal-Gazing " and " Hauntings " ; N. W. Thomas's on " Clair-
NOVESTBEK 1929 Reviews 165
voyance," " Death-Warnings, " Medium " and " Telepathy " ; and
the anonymous " D. D. Home," are all cut down to bare dictionary
entries. These entries, however, are all notable for their accuracy
(except for a small slij) in that on " Crystal-Gazing "). Podmore on
" Table-Turning " and Lang on " Poltergeist " are dropped alto-
gether. Under " Spiritualism " many who have read with admira-
tion Mrs Sidgwick"s masterly essay in the old Britannica will regret
its disappearance from the new edition. The article which takes its
place, however, by Sir Oliver Lodge, is a fair and lucid statement of
the subject from the point of view of one thoroughly convinced of
survival.
As has been said, the main article on " Psychical Research
"
compensates for what has been lost elsewhere. This article, by Mr
Salter (which replaces that by Lang in the eleventh edition and that
by Dr Schiller in the so-called twelfth), is a really admirable attempt
to cover the whole ground in a critical and judicious spirit. It
forms by far the best available survey in short compass of practically
the entire field of psychical research.
K. Kephren. La Transmission de Pensee. 8vo. pp. 140. Paris :
Felix Alcan, 1929. Price 12 fr.
This book consists largely of theoretical discussions of thought-
transference and kindred subjects. These are based on a few
experiments in mental suggestion and thought-transference in
hypnosis conducted by Mile Kephren (pseudonym) in 1917. These
experiments were a good deal more successful than any authentic
ones yet recorded. It is the more regrettable therefore that par-
ticulars regarding the subjects and similar details, together with
corroborative information, are altogether lacking, and that Mile
Kephren allowed so many years to pass before reporting these results.
The experiments should, if possible, be repeated under test con-
ditions.
'
Th. B.
NOTES OX PERIODICALS.
Revile Metapsychique, July-August 1929.
This number consists exclusively of the text of lectures delivered
at the Institut Metapsychique in 1929. The first is by Maitre M.
Gargon on " Black Magic of To-day." I much appreciate his
writings in general, but this lecture has been a disappointment.
Maitre Gargon carefidly abstains from telling us whether he believes
himself in black magic ; he shows us that la magie noire still exists,
but no more ; at the most critical point of an invocation to Lucifer
he goes away (p. 269).
M. R. Warcollier discusses " Telepathy, its relations with the
Subconscious and the L^nconscious." He distinguishes in the human
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1029
mind four strata : tlie unconscious, the conscious, the subconscious
and the superconscious. Another writer, Dr Vinchon, informs us
•on another page that there are two inconscients : the individual
unconscious and the collective unconscious. Whether by thus
multiplying various x's we are likely to come nearer to the clue to
the problem_s of psychical research, I am somewhat doubtful. It is
slightly disconcerting to find M. Warcollier almost " despairing " to
be able to transfer telepathically conscious thoughts (p. 285),
apparently quite forgetful of all the work of the S. P. R. in thought-
transference. I must again state my opinion as to the evidential
value of such experiments as M. Warcollier's : we must, before we
can judge them, have all the trials before us (which is not the case).
A French translation follows of Mr Price's report of his sittings
with Rudi Schneider in London in April 1919. M. Henri Desoille
has a very long paper on the possible influence of " occult sciences
"
on mental derangement. His conclusions are emphatically in the
affirmative (p. 371). They seem to me well grounded. The other
papers :
" Hypnosis, with reference to Pavloff's experiments " by
Dr Thooris, " The False Dauphins and their Prophets " by Dr
Vinchon, and M. Sainte-Lague's note on " Einstein's Theories of
Special Relativity", have very little connection with our researches.
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Melajmjchiqms de Belgique, October
1929.
M. Rutot discusses at length " Psychism and Metapsychism."
Two proces verbaux by a Mr A. L. Dribbel are printed of sittmgs for
physical phenomena at Carshalton with Mr G. P. L'Estrange as
medium. Then we have the Mantes sittings again. We are told
that, as was to be expected, these take place regularly again (not-
withstanding the exposure of last year). Abstracts of two proces-
verbaux are given. I confess that to my mind they merely illustrate
once more the complete evidential worthlessness of most such
accounts in general and the all -important part played here by the
personality of the observer. Finally a note on some Nice sittmgs is
printed.
Zeitschriftfiir Parapsychologie, August 1929.
This number opens with the first instalment of a translation of
Mr Price's account of sittings with Rudi Schneider in London in
April last. General Peter reverts to the " White Lady " of Schloss
Bernstein in Burgenland and seems to have no doubt of the genuine-
ness of the case. It should be noted, however, that m a recent
number of the Vienna Reichspost (a Roman Catholic daily paper) an
article was printed categorically stating that the alleged apparitions
were due to a deliberate hoax. Frau Hessel (a professional clair-
myante) of Leipzig, is the subject of another paper by Herr Otto
N0VK5IBBE 1929 Notes on Periodicals 167
Seeling in which the pros and cons are stated with apparent impar-
tiality. Dr Heyde of Rostock discusses telepathy and arrives at
the conclusion that the immaterial character of consciousness is not
enough : we must postulate consciousness to have no relation to
space (Undrtlichkeit)
.
Herr R. Lambert has a long and very sensible paper on the
Millesimo sittings in Italy, which he conclusively shows to be most
susjDicious, as was indeed obvious from the beginning. The most
instructive feature of these sittings seems to me to be the light the
accounts throw on Signer Bozzano's " critical " methods and
canons of evidence. The Baroness Veszi-Mantica of Florence
relates various cases which were commimicated to her by corres-
pondents. The most curious comes from a Dr. R. R, of Vienna,
whose niece, five years and a half old, is alleged to be endowed with
striking supernormal faculties. The case, if authentic, certainly
deserves investigation. An incident related by a Jewish Rabbi
(automatic writing) may also deserve attention but cannot be
adequately appreciated, since the Baroness does not give us the
original report.
Zeitsclirift fiir Parapsyclwlogie, September 1929.
The concluding part is printed of the translation of Mr Price's
account of the Rudi Schneider sittings in London. The German
" White Lady " and kindred matters are the subject of two papers,
one sceptical by Dr Hermann Kiigler of Berlin, the other affirmative
by Herr Johannes Illig. The latter would have done well, I think,
if he had attempted to refute the above-mentioned article in the
Vienna ReicJispost. Zollner and the theory of the fourth dimension
are discussed by Dr Bernoulli of Zurich. The writer affirms, no
doubt correctly, that the Leipzig savant had arrived at the con-
clusion that a fourth dimension of space may exist (following in the
steps of Riemann, Mach and, I may add. Gauss and Lobatchevsky)
before the Slade sittings, not after. He is hardly right, however, in
saying that Zollner had the satisfaction of seeing almost all the
experiments organised by him succeed at these sittings. As a matter
of fact he had to content himself chiefly, though not invariably,
with ersfflte-phenomena, impressive but less convincing than those
contemplated.
Frl. Walther briefly relates the story of Joanna Southcott's box,
and Herr Arthur Kronfeld of Berlin has a paper on " Established
facts in Parapsychology." Telepathy comes for him first (with
special reference to such experiments as Herr Carl Bruck's and
Professor Gilbert Murray's) ; then psychometry and clairvoyance.
Experiments in " cryptoscopy " such as Dr Chowrin's, Herr v.
Wasielewski's, etc., seem to him somewhat less satisfactory. Psycho-
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Kovember1929
metry is followed by clairvoyance, the physical phenomena coming
in the last place. The alleged post-mortem message of Houdini to
his wife is the siibject of a note by Frl. Walther and of a few words
by Herr R. Lambert (hpro])os of a pamphlet on The Houdini Messages.
Our readers will note the part played in the case by the Rev. Arthur
Ford (cp. Journal, November 1928, xxiv. 357). A very interesting
statement is made by Dr Jos. Bohm. The Neumann family, it
would appear, have consented to Theresa's alleged ability to fast for
prolonged periods being scientifically investigated (presumably in a
clinic).
Zeitschrift filr ParapsycJiologie, October 1929.
Dr Siinner, the Editor, narrates in great detail a case of spon-
taneous physical phenomena observed recently by him and by a
few friends in Charlottenburg. The supposed medium was Lucie
Regulski, a girl eleven years old. The manifestations consisted of
raps and noises, attempts at direct 'WTiting on a slate and different
movements of objects, and were supposed to be produced by a
deceased uncle. The child lay in bed (which was repeatedly moved)
whilst the jJienomena were going on. Various incidents happening
to various persons have led Dr Siinner to the conclusion that we
have to deal here with a Familienspuk manifesting itself in the same
family through decades : a statement which, I confess, leaves me
somewhat sceptical. Dr Siimier also contributes a very personal
" review " of Dr Moll's recent Zur Psychologie unci Charakterologie
der Okkultisien. Some people will think that such an attitude
only strengthens Dr Moll's accusations. Dr Walther Kroner has
the first instalment of a paper on a recent exposure in Berlin of
George Valiantine, the American trumpet-medium. We shall revert
to it in detail when it is concluded.
Zeitschrift fiir jysychische Forschung, July 1929.
This number opens with a paper by Dr E. Mattiesen on the
animistic theory of cross-correspondences, which the writer attempts
to disprove, with special reference to the part supposed by some to
have been played by Mrs Verrall in originating this particular type
of message. Professor Messer of the University of Giessen has the
first instalment of a paper on the phenomena of possession supposed
to have been exhibited by Herr Melzer of Dresden. Seeing that the
latter gentleman also exhibits such doubtful manifestations as
apporfs, it goes without saying that such incidents as depend on this
medium's good faith have no evidential value, so long, at least, as
the authenticity of apiports has not been established. Logically
speaking, such a canon of evidence seems to me unassailable.
Dr Schroder has a further article on metaplasmic phenomena sup-
NOVEMBEK 1929 Notes on Periodicals 169
posed to have occurred with, lime d'Esperance, Jliss Goligher and
Marthe Beraiid (Eva C). As mention is made of the Helsingfors
sitting in 1893 where j\Ime d'Esperance's legs are supposed to have
dematerialised, I may add that M. Aksakov, who subsequently
investigated the incident himself, admitted in print, though inclined
to think the phenomenon authentic, that it could not be regarded as
completely proved.
On another page Dr Schroder mentions various incidents occurr-
ing in Germany of late, in particular trials of various healers. One
of these ended with the healer (Frau Erna Konig) being fined 1000
Marks. A very perplexing problem is presented to us by these
people, for on the one hand it seems to me preposterous to prevent
them, if really endowed with peculiar powers, from curing those
whom official medicine cannot help ; on the other quacks cannot be
permitted to prey on credulous and defenceless people.
Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne, 1929, no. 21-22.
M. Kazimierz Wyczalkowski, believing metapsychics to be a
science more precise and certain in its conclusions than many
sciences officially recognised (!), insists on the necessity of founding
in Poland an International Metapsychical Institute. In my humble
opinion soi-disant psychical research societies of every description are
already numerous enough in Poland. May I be permitted to add
that we want not so much quantity as quality ? It is intended to
convoke a Polish Metapsychical Congress and exhibition in the
autumn. Dr F. R. Habdank (pseudon}Tn of Dr X. Watraszewski)
has two papers, one on " Hypotheses on Mediumship based on our
present Knowledge," the other on " Creative Power," and M.
Wyczalkowski discusses " Probabilities " of a non-mathematical
character. M. Jozef Switkowski contributes a long monograph on
a Polish mediima whom he calls Stas. Various extraordinary
physical phenomena are narrated. M. Kowalski has some remarks
on mediumship, and a paper on " Thought as Creative Power."
P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, August 1929.
ilr Bird now prints a report of his own sitting with Eudi Schneider
in 1927, coming to substantially the same conclusion as ilr Vinton.
He thinks, nevertheless, that llr Price's recent London sittings with
Eudi prove that the latter's mediumship is at times genume. Dr
Burns continues his studies in apparent obsession. Dr Crandon
prints a further reply under the title " Psychical Eesearch. The
Crisis Passed : the Patient doing Well," to Mr Dingwall's recent
article in The Realist (cp. Journal, xxv. 136).
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1929
Psychic Research, September 1929.
Mr Price's original report of his London sittings with Rudi
Schneider is now printed. For these sittings Schrenck-Notzing's
electrical aj^paratus (see Proceedings, xxxviii. diagram facing p. 434)
was adapted. As to the methodological defects of this system, I am
in agreement with Count Perovsky's letter printed on another page
in this issue. And, from a practical point of view, it is impossible to
criticise it, since Mr Price prints only the original German diagram
by Amareller of Schrenck's wiring, although his own system differs
very considerably from this. For instance, Schrenck's system pro-
vided for the control of the medium only ; Mr Price's wiring is
arranged for the control, in addition, of up to thirteen sitters.
Further, the diagram printed by Mr Price (p. 467) of the seance-TOom.
is not only internally anomalous in its measurements, but does not
agree in this respect with the text in several vital points. Again, the
chart (p. 481) stated to show supernormal variations in temperature
does not appear to show any temperature at all.
M. Sudre offers his holiday reflections on psychical research and
spiritualism. Dr Burns prints another instalment of his studies in
apparent obsession. Messrs Carrington and Bird illustrate the
uncertainties of memory from their childhood recollections.
Th. B.
ERRATUM.
In Journal, July 1929 (xxv. 134), for " Revue Metapsychique, May 1929,"
read " March-April 1929."
No. 460.—Vol. XXV. . December 1929.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
TUESDAY, ly December ig2g, at j.jo p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"SOME HAUNTED HOUSES"
WILL BE READ BV
Prof. F. J. M. STRATTON, D.S.O.
N.B.
—
A^o Tickets of Ad?nission are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
172 JoLvrnal of Society for Psychical Research December 1929
NEW MEMBERS.
Davidson, Miss A. M. Campbell, F.R.G.S., Villa Mont Jean, Cavalaire
(Var), France.
Few, Mrs, Coneyhurst-on-the-Hill, Ewhurst, Guildford, Surrey.
Hettinger, John, Broseley, 63 Drewstead Road, Streatham, London,
S.W. 16.
Laine, Rev. Edmund Randolph, Jr., The Rectory, Stockbridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Merriman, Miss Christina, c/o Morgan and Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris, France.
Patterson, Adam C, Academy Place, Castle Douglas, Scotland.
Ross, Mrs HalSord, 136B Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Wilson, Miss Rosemary, 25 Oakwood Court, London, W. 14.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 264th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 7 November 1929, at 6 p.m., Dr
F. C. S. Schiller in the chair. There were also present : The Hon.
Everard Feilding, Mr G. W. Lambert, and Dr V. J. WooUey ; also
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
A brief report by the President on certain matters connected with
the administration of the Frederic W. H. Myers Lectureship Fund,
was read and approved by the Council.
MEETING.
A CONVERSAZIONE for Members and Associates was held on the 6th
of November 1929 in the House of the Society. Tea was served
from 4-5 p:m., after which Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, who
had come over from Brussels for the purpose, read a paper on D. D.
Home.
An interesting discussion followed in which the President, Mrs
St Loe Strachey, who read two letters from her grandfather Professor
Nassau Senior to Lord Lansdowne giving an account of sittings with
D. D. Home, Mr Besterman, Colonel Maxwell Dick, Mr Dingwall,
December 1929 Meeting 173
the Hon. Everarcl Feilding, the Rev. J. W. Hayes, iVIr. Perrott, and
Colonel Gordon Tucker took part.
Mrs Strachey has kindly presented to the Society copies, with
various addenda, of the two letters read by her : they have been
placed with the Society's collection of Home documents and can be
seen on application.
THE FREDERIC W. H. MYERS LECTURESHIP FUND.
Further Contributions.
Sir Oliver Lodge - - - - £10 10 0
Lady Dewar . . . 5 0 0
Hon. E. Feilding -
5 0 0
Oscar Herrmann (frs. 300) 8 3
Lt.-Col. F. C4. Talbot - 1 1 0
£23 19 3
Previous Total - 810 12 3
Deposit Interest 6 12 3
£811 3 9
THE FIRST FREDERIC W. H. MYERS LECTURE.
The First Frederic W. H. Myers Lecture v^ras delivered on the 18th
of October 1929 at the Aeolian Hall, by Sir Oliver Lodge. The
Lecture, with the addition of Sir Oliver Lodge's Address in memory
of Mr Myers originally published in Proceedings and of a bibliography
of Mr Myers, will be published by Methuen's on behalf of the
Trustees of the Frederic W. H. Myers Lectureship Fund. Forming
a booklet of about seventy pages it will be issued at two shillings.
Orders, accompanied by remittances, may be addressed to the
Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
THE CHANGE IN THE LAW OF NEW YORK
RELATING TO SPIRITUALISM.
By Blewett Lee.
The change in the New York lavv^ relating to spiritualism may be
traced back to the case of People v. Hill,'^ in which a person who con-
ducted a public religious service of a Spiritualist Society, in the
com'se of which he undertook to act as message-bearer from deceased
1 66 N.Y. Law Journal 79 (7 October 1921).
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1929
relatives to persons present, the alleged messages containing some
rather trivial predictions, was convicted and imprisoned. This case,
which apparently cannot be found in the official reports, aroused the
indignation of Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
^
A decision was si;bsequently rendered by a Judge sitting alone in
the Supreme Court of New Jersey in State v. Delcmey ^ to the effect
that where the prediction is made as a part of the public service of a
Spiritualist Church, the act of prediction falls within the protection
of the constitutional guarantee of religious liberty. Where the pre-
diction is made at a private sitting for a fee, it is no defence that the
accused was a spiritualist and acted bona fide.
^
The distinction is recognised by the new statute of the State of
Xew York commonly known as the Jenks Law, named from the
introducer of the bill into the Assembly. Section 899 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure included in the list of " disorderly persons
"
"3. Persons pretending to tell fortunes, or where lost or stolen
goods may be found." This section of the Statute has been amended
by the Act of 6 April 1929,* by adding the words " but this sub-
division shall not be construed to interfere with the belief, practices
or usages of an incorporated ecclesiastical governing body or the duly
licensed teachers or ministers thereof acting in good faith and without
personal fee."' ^
This law is satisfactory to the members of the Spiritualist Church,
as it throws a protection to some extent over their " message-
bearers " who purport to communicate with deceased persons, since
from time to time predictions will appear in the supposed messages.
Except in this fashion there appears to be no connection between
fortune-telling and spiritualism. The most interesting cases of
fortune-telling are like mind-reading.^
From time to time decisions in regard to fortune-telling will be
found treated as cases of Disorderly Conduct or Vagrancy, and their
steady recurrence would indicate that there is no diminution in the
1 W. F. Prince, in Journal Amer. S.P.B. (1922), xvi. 486.
2 122 Atl. 890 (192.3), 1 N.J. ]\Iisc. 619. The Constitution of New Jersey
provides (Art I. Sec. 3) that " No person shall be dej^rived of the inestimable
privilege of worshipping Almighty God in a manner agreeable to the dictates
of his own conscience."
3 McMasters v. State, 207 Pac. 566 (1922), 29 A-L.R. 292, 21 Okla Cr. 3l8 ;
Davis V. State, 118 Oh. St. 25, 160 N.E. 473 (1928) ; case below, 159 N.E. 575
(Court of Appeals). Certiorari was refused on ground Federal question was
frivolous, 277 U.S. 571-2, 72 L.Ed. 993.
« Laws 1929, Ch. 344, in effect 1 September 1929.
5 Gilbert's Criminal Code and Penal Laic (New York, 1929), p. 615.
* As, for example, in the case of Mme. Kahl-Toukholka, described by
Theodore Besterman, " Report of a Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investi-
gation," Proceedings (1928-9) xxxviii. 413 ff.
ECEMBEE1929 Change in Law Relating to Spiritualism 175
practice of tJie craft. But even when delivered in good faitli pre-
dictions are not reliable. The state may properly forbid predictions
for hire on this account, and particularly on account of the constant
frauds for gain practiced by fortune-tellers. This, however, is not
the same thing as forbidding a person to act at all as a " spirit
medium," or even to take pay for it. Until we know more about the
subject, the law should stop at the punishment of mediums for
conscious fraud. Persons ought not to be forbidden to act as
" mediums " for compensation merely because predictions occur,
but the imdertaking to foretell the future for a fee may very properly
be forbidden. The Jenks law is certainly a step in the right direction.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Conditions of Control at Sittings for
Physical Phenomena.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Count Perovsky deserves our gratitude for raising in his
letter in the November Journal (xxv. 163) a very important question
of method in psychical research. He declares emphatically that
only the medium should be controlled and that the sitters should
be carefully selected, and then trusted. I would like to put the case
for dissenting from this curious canon of investigation.
(1) The Coimt does not tell us who is to select the sitters. What
guarantees can be suggested that will ensure a right selection ?
•Surely the quis custodiet custodes question arises already at this stage.
(2) It is not only necessary to secure trustworthy sitters, but also
to give the world reason to believe that they are trustworthy. And
even if those who know them are able to accept them as trustworthy
at the time, how about future generations that are expected to accept
their testimony ?
(3) It seems illogical to trust to the good faith of sitters, while
guarding oneself against deception by mediums. If mediums may
properly be suspected of fraud, why not sitters of confederacy ?
(i) Actually there is ground enough for suspecting sitters. In the
first place the habitual sitter with any medium represents a product
of selection. He is one who has persevered, either because he is
specially attracted by the type of mediumship, or because he is
incapable of detecting any fraud in it. In either case he is open to
suspicion. Secondly, it is among persons like him that confederates
in fraud are most likely to be sought. Thirdly, the habitual sitter
is most likely to relax his vigilance and to abate the precautions
against fraud.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1929
(5) Uncontrolled sitters may not only shake tLe confidence of the
public in the reports of sittings, but also detract from the impressive-
ness of the sittings for the sitters themselves. For a sitter Avho is
conscious of his own complete rectitude cannot possibly be equally
confident about all the other sitters. He must always ask himself
whether confederacy is not the explanation of what happens. And
imcontrolled sitters can do mischief also in other ways.
(6) The fact that no precautions can stop up every source of error
and deception absolutely seems a very poor reason for not taking as
many precautions as are practicable. I express no opinion on the
adequacy of Mr Price's " electrical control," as I have not yet tried
it ; but on the face of it it is an added safeguard, and I entirely fail
to follow the argument that it should be dispensed with, because
psychical research is so difficult and complicated already. Of course
psychical research is difficult and complicated, else it would not
remain in the inchoate condition it is in : but it will make no pro-
gress unless all its difiiculties and complications are squarely met.
An adequate control of the sitters strikes me as one of the most
obvious and valuable improvements to introduce into the technique
of sittings, and I cannot see why what is sauce for the goose should
not be sauce also for the gander.
Yours, etc.,
F. C. S. Schiller.
The Spiritualistic Hypothesis.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I cannot think that your correspondent Mrs Kingsley is wise
in appealing to views expressed by Dr Schiller in an article that is
almost thirty years old. After the epoch-making work of Freud and
Jung it is surely a little late in the day to maintain that an orthodox
psychologist would find nothing to choose between the subconscious
mind theory and the spirit theory. Few modern psychologists, how-
ever orthodox, would dare to dispute the fact that there are mental
happenings and purposive streams of mental activity running
beneath the surface of oiir ordinary waking consciousness or that
our conscious states are largely influenced by these hidden activities.
The exploration of this subconscious territory is no longer taboo and
the techniques of hypnotism and suggestion and of psychoanalysis
are bringing to light facts of immense value. I only ask that in our
attempts to understand psychical phenomena before appealing to
the agency of departed spirits (for whose very existence we have no
independent a j)riori evidence) we should first make use of all the
resources that psychoanalysis and abnormal psychology place at our
disposal.
December 1929 Corres-pondence 177
Nothing is more remarkable than the way in which subconscious
mental phenomena accounnodate themselves not only to the beliefs
of the immediate entourage of the individual subject bu.t also to the
general beliefs of the age in which they appear. In ancient Greece
it was the pagan gods and goddesses or the souls of mythological
heroes who spoke through the oracles ; in the Middle Ages there
were veritable epidemics of hysteria in which large numbers fell into
trance and were possessed by angels or devils from the pit ;
to-day
it is plain Mr Brown of Bermondsey or Uncle Dick, deceased, of
Dalston, who are allowed to shake the tables. In the classical
atmosphere of the Jersey sittings not only did the abstract virtues
communicate but even the Lion of Androcles came back to spell out
Hugoesque verses in the presence —be it carefully noted—of the
great poet himself. The Chevalier des Mousseaux, who was a
demonist, used to speak regularly through the planchette with
devils. " Are you he who tempted our first parents ?
" he would
ask. " Yes " the devil would reply. Or, " Are you one of those
who entered into the swine ?
" " Yes."
On the other hand in the rationalistic atmosphere of the early
French magnetisers, before the wave of spiritualism came over from
America, the hypnotised subjects produced all the basic phenomena
of spiritualism while seldom claiming to be in touch with invisible
beings of any kind. These subjects foretold the future, read the
thoughts of the hypnotist and described apparitions with veridical
details ; but these apparitions were usually apparitions of the living
and not of the dead.
If occasionally the automatic communications assume a spiritual-
istic formwith subjects whose views are normally opposed to spiritual-
ism, that is not surprising. Freud and his followers have shown
that there still exist in the subconscious mind of the individual
primitive streams of mental activity which are often in conflict with
the beliefs and lines of conduct imposed by civilisation upon the
ordinary waking self. The belief in spirits is a primitive belief held
by all savage races and it should not surprise us if the irrational
strata of mental life inherited from far-back ancestors should surge
up and colour the automatic communications.
I turn now to the supposed methodological advantages of spiritual-
ism as a working hypothesis. When experimenting with subjects
whose minds are imbued with spiritualistic ideas I agree that it is
best for the experimenter to pretend that the " spirits " are what
they claim to be. If, for instance, I had laughed at John Ferguson
and told him that he was only a trance modification of the medium's
subliminal he would probably have promptly disappeared. To this
limited extent it is unfortunately necessary to adopt spiritualism as
a working hypothesis. I say " mifortunately " because the danger
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1929
of antagonising the medium and lier secondary personalities makes
it practically impossible to submit her to psychoanalysis.
Hence the enormous advantage in working with a subject whose
mentality is not obsessed with ideas of communication with the dead.
But such a subject is a rara avis and more ordinary minds like that
of Mdlle Helene Smith ^ usually fall into the hands of uncritical
spiritualists who exploit their phenomena without producing any
records of scientific value. Mdlle Smith herself seems to have been
quite happy with Prof. Floiirnoy until the spiritualists poured their
propaganda into her receptive mind. Then she was lost to science ;
but the blame cannot fairly be laid at the door of Prof. Flournoy on
the ground that " he explained away her phenomena too completely
"
(in Dr Schiller's words). As a scientific man Flournoy could not
have done otherwise than push his observations to their logical
conclusion.
But even if it be admitted that the so-called " spirits " are often
the occasion of supernormal mental phenomena it is none the less
true that they are incapable of bringing us any nearer to a scientific
explanation of these phenomena. I go to a trance medium and
observe, say, a case of prevision in which a certain " spirit " claims
to have the power of describing a future scene in my life. If the
phenomenon were really the result of a new faculty acquired by a
human being after physical death we might reasonably expect this
discarnate human being to furnish us with some intelligent dis-
cussion of the matter. If however we interrogate him his explana-
tions are almost invariably absurd and not even superficially
plausible. It is true that I could not make a man who was born
blind realise exactly what sight means, but I could at least furnish
him with a very intelligent demonstration of the linaitations and
possibilities of the faculty in enabling us to deal with distant objects
in the physical world. In any case I should not talk nonsense to
the blind man.
It does not seem therefore, that we are helped in the least by the
supposed spirit's statement that he is a discarnate human being who
has acquired new faculties. Our only resource is to fall back upon
the ordinary mundane methods of scientific inquiry. We must try
to get the phenomenon repeated under our own conditions, we must
vary these conditions and try to discover by elimination the factors
which are important. And we shall be lucky if the self-styled spirits,
far from helping us, do not actually hinder and thwart our experi-
ments. For while the non-spiritualistic subject like Ossowiecki will
cheerfully do his best to comply with our tests the spirit Controls
^ [The observations by Dr Scliiller referred to by Mrs Kingsley were made
during the course of a review of one of Flournoy's publications on his subject
Helene Smith. Ed.']
December 1929 Correspondence 179
will probably reply that it is beneath their dignity to read the sealed
envelopes and books that we bring into the seance-TOom, will refuse
our experiments, while still claiming to produce far more marvellous
phenomena which are not under our control.
Xo single idea of scientific value has been communicated through
spirit mediums. On the other hand there have been reams of jargon
and pseudo-science. Xor does Sir Oliver Lodge's theory that men
of genius are inspired by the mighty dead appear to me"^to be any-
thing more than a gratuitous assumption. For it is as well to
rernember that the mighty dead were once themselves the mighty
living ! The mental difierences between men may be just as much
the result_ of their heredities and early environments as are the
physical differences between men. Because a blacksmith is stronger
than ordinary men we do not suppose that the spirit of some dead
Samson affects his glands and makes strength flow into his muscles !
And this brings me to the chief point of my previous letter. It is
that the spirit hj^othesis is rapidly becoming a pseudo-explanation
in the hands of many spiritualists. It is indeed so wide, so vague, so
convenient, that it can be safely applied to almost anything. I shall
not be at all surprised to learn soon that the spirits of the dead assist
the bacteria in the work of fermentation and putrefaction ! It does
not in the least dismay these ardent enthusiasts if the spirit com-
pletely fails to establish his identity, if he remembers things that
never happened to him in life, and forgets the vital facts of his
terrestrial existence. Xo matter ! If he is not the person he claims
to be it is at any rate another dead man who impersonates him—
a
spirit of some sort—and so the spirit hypothesis is saved.
Yours etc.,
S. G. SOAL.
The Indian Rope-Trick.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Within the last few days my attention has been drawn to a
statement printed on pp. 30-31 of the Society's Journal for 1905-1906,
volume xii. This purports to be an accoimt, by an eye-witness, of
a performance of the Indian Rope-trick in Xovember 1897, between
2 and 3 p.m., outside Watson's Hotel in Bombay.
The statement is anonymous ; that anomnnity must be respected,
although as it happens I have met the narrator, and there is no
reason whatever to impugn her good faith. But it appears to me
that it is undesirable to retain on the Society's records, without
comment, a story which as it stands purports to be a narrative of
fact, when there is cogent evidence for its being the record of a
ISO Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembee 1929
dream ;
and I think that this consideration stands good even though
the record is some 25 years old.
The comment, then, which I have to make is as follows. At the
time in question, 1897, Watson's Hotel must have been as well
known to visitors to India, and to residents in India, as any place
in India could be. There must be hundreds of people still alive who
knew it, and who could bear me out when I say that on the opposite
side of the roadway (not a wide one) running past it there stood a
row of tall trees which formed a canopy above the road, thus pro-
viding ample shade for the jugglers, conjm'ors, snake-charmers, and
pedlars who plied their trades in the roadway for the amusement of
the guests on the first-floor balcony of the hotel. And, as I re-
member it, this tree-canopy was some twenty feet above the balcony,
and forty above the level of the road.
Now the narrative to which I have referred contains the following
material words :
" One of them [the conjurors] threw a rope into the air which
hitched itself up to apparently nothing in the sky above ; one could
see the rope going straight up as far as one could see anything. . . .
A small boy then swarmed up this rope, becoming smaller and
smaller, till he likewise vanished from sight. . .
."
If these words mean anything, it is that the free end of the rope and
the climbing boy receded vertically to a distance so great that the
boy could no longer be distinguished by the naked eye. But, as I
have mentioned, the tree-canopy was not more than six or seven
yards above the heads of observers on the balcony, and the field of
view overhead ended in the canopy. The words of the narration
cannot be reconciled with this fact. I have no doubt that the narrator
watching the conjurors during the hottest and most soporific time
of the afternoon, simply dozed off, perhaps for not more than a
minute ; dreamed the supposed facts ; and waking again to the same
environment, supposed herself to have actually witnessed the events
set forth in the narrative.
Yours, etc.,
A. R. Bonus.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1929.
M. Henri Desoille briefly discusses the case of Mile Jeaime Laplace,
a voyante whose " paranormal faculties " he lately attempted to
utilise, apparently with some measure of success, in the medical
sphere.
M. de Vesme has a further instalment of his valuable paper on
" Obsession and Possession in the Far East and in non-civilised
December 1929 Notes on Periodicals 181
countries." Some of the cases narrated are interesting, in particular
a 'poltergeist case said to have occurred in 1883 in China and described
in Nevius's Devion Possession. In this case after the " demon "
who had taken possession of two Chinese women had been expelled
by prayer, the poultry in the fowls' house and some twelve pigs
belonging to the same Chinese family seemed to be seized with some
imaccountable fear without any apparent cause. IiTesistibly we
are reminded of such a Gospel narrative as Mark, v. 12, 13, and of
the celebrated Huxley-Gladstone controversy over the Gadarene
swine. In another case knowledge of the movements and impending
arrival of the Rev. Lang and two Chinese Christians was manifested
by the " demon " possessing a woman.
Mr C. W. OUiver has a note on " Experimental Cryptaesthesia in
all human beings " and Prof. Ch. Richet has a few judicious remarks
d jnopos of M. Jules Romains's novel Quancl le navire. . . .
M. Charles Quartier reviews a few books, Dr H. Scheie's Okkul-
tismus unci Wissenschaft among them. Speaking of the second part
of this work, he seems to think that it coiitains some very valuable
criticisms on the late Dr von Schrenck and Mme Bisson, but declines
to discuss them, an attitude much to be regretted.
Lectures pour tons (1929), nos. 2-4.
M. Armand Praviel has a long paper entitled " Photographies de
fantomes." As befits a good Parisian he deals exclusively or almost
exclusively with the celebrated Buguet trial (June 1875) which
ended with the spirit photographer being sentenced to one year's
imprisonment and a fine of 500 francs. M. Leymarie, Editor of the
Revue Spirite and an ardent supporter of Buguet, shared the latter's
fate.
To me the most instructive features of this celebrated trial are :
(fi) the persistence of some of the Spiritualists who appeared in
Court as witnesses for the defence (such as Alan Kardecs widow,
Comte de Bullet and others) in their belief in the genuineness of the
spirit photographs, in spite of Buguet's admission that these were
forgeries, an admission supported by the exhibition of material
proofs (dolls) ; (6) the part played by Leymarie. Obviously the
latter's name must be added to the rather long series of Spiritualists
whose ultra-credulity hampers all investigation worthy of the name
almost as effectively as the cheating of the fraudulent medium him-
self.
Revue Catholique des idees et des fails (Brussels), 1 and 8 November
1929.
Professor Father Morard 0. P. has a very substantial paper on
" The Facts of Konnersreuth." His conclusions are entirely
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1929
favourable not only to the authenticity of the phenomena, but also
to their miraculous character. " The Konnersreuth facts constitute
a manifest case of a miracle. We feel not the least scruple to utter
this word pregnant with meaning." The writer bases his view
chiefly on two categories of facts : (a) Theresa Neumann's " absolute
fasting "
; (6) her " ecstatic communions," accompanied by the
mysterious disa]3pearance of the Host placed by the priest on her
tongue.
Zeitschrift fUr Parapsychologie, November 1929.
Dr Mattiesen discusses " The Theoretical Problems of Psycho-
metry " d projws of the book recently published by Dr Siinner on
Frau Lotte Plaat. Dr Mattiesen's method consists, as is usually the
case with this critic, in taking the alleged facts for granted, after
which various theories are passed in review. After rejecting several,
in particular the one according to which the objects handled by the
psychometrist are " impregnated " with emanations of some kind,
the writer postulates the accumulation of all the facts existing in the
world, both in their relation to space and to time, in some central
superconsciousness with which every individual is intimately con-
nected, he being able under certain circumstances to draw knowledge
out of his own deeper self. This theory may be thought by some
attractive ; I wish we had at our disposal more facts to base it on.
Dr Tanagras of Athens, President of the Hellenic S.P.R., has a new
hypothesis to offer to explain prophecy. Some cases of prophesying
can be explained, he thinks, by mere chance coincidence (a most
reasonable admission, it seems to me !), telepathic influences, various
forms of clairvoyance and suggestion ; for the rest Dr Tanagras
postulates what he terms psyclwholia. He assumes the human
organism to be radio-active and to throw off certain emanations
capable of influencing at a distance living beings and even inanimate
subjects, both for good and for evil. These rays can for instance
afi:ect the brain of a mechanic or chauffeur or the machinery of a
ship or the engine of a railway train, and thus provoke a disaster in
accordance with a " prophetic " dream previously dreamed. Into
the various developments of this ingenious if far-fetched theory I
shall not follow Dr Tanagras, merely contending myself with the
statement that I am not acquainted with a single well-attested case
and that therefore all such theorising seems to me somewhat pre-
mature.
A second instalment of Dr Kroner's paper on the Valiantine
exposure in Berlin is printed. A footnote at the beginning shows
us that the Editor evidently thinks he went too far in permitting
the first instalment to be published without comment : Dr Siinner
now adheres to the conclusion arrived at by Baron K. A. von L.,
Decembee 1929 Notes on Periodicals 183
one of the sitters, according to whom no direct evidence was produced
that the phenomena were fraudulent, however worthless they were
from the scientific point of view owing to the absence of all control.
Monatsclirift fur Eriminalpsychologie mid Strafrechtsreform (Heidel-
berg 1929), vol. XX, no. 1.
ArcJiivfiir Psychiatrie (Berlin 1929), vol. Ixxxvi, nos. 1, 2.
ArcMvfur Kriminologie (Leipzig 1929), vol. Ixxxiv, no. 1.
Zeitschrift fur Medizinalbeamte (1929), no. 1-3.
We have in these periodicals valuable papers by Dr Albert Hellwig
of Potsdam on KrimmxdteJejmtlien in general and on the celebrated
trial at Insterburg of Frau Gunther-Geffers in particular. The
learned judge's standpoint is well known : he is a thorough dis-
believer, if not in clairvoyance and telepathy in general, at least in
the supernormal capacities of the clairvoyants who specialise in the
discovery of crimes. He does not know, he says, of a single case of
the kind in which clairvoyance or telepathy has been proved to
operate. (The reader should be told that, as conclusively shown by
Dr Hellwig, the Insterburg Court which acquitted the Konigsberg
KriminaltelepatJiin, also expressed substantially the same view,
Frau Gunther-Gefi'ers being acquitted merely because it could not be
proved that she did not herself believe in the genuineness of her
powers).
Many interesting subsidiary aspects of the problem are discussed
by the Potsdam judge (he is in particular very hard on the Press) ;
the whole, in spite of inevitable repetitions, is excellent reading,
whether we completely agree with Dr Hellwig or not.
P.-P.-S.
Tijdschrift voor ParapsycJiologie, November 1928-September 1929.
These are the first six numbers, forming the first volume, of a new
Dutch bi-monthly periodical devoted to psychical research, the
critical level of which is decidedly above the average. In the first
two numbers is a long article by Dr Dietz on the paragnostic dream,
which he holds to be established. But as he bases his argument
chiefly on Mr Dunne's book, Dr Dietz's conclusions must be received
with the same caution as that book. The invention of new terms in
psychical research is as a rule to be deprecated ; but " paragnostic
"
seems to be a convenient word to express the acquisition of know-
ledge by supernormal means.
In the second and third numbers Mr van Rossen writes on fraudu-
lent methods in direct writing, spirit-photography, and clairvoyance.
The writer shows considerable familiarity with the English literature
of the subject (as do, indeed, nearly all the contributors to the
Tijdschrift), and gives many iDteresting illustrations of fraud.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December i<)29
Dr Dietz has ao article in the third number on clairvoyance and
the extent of its distribution. He describes soroe experiments with
playing-cards dating back to 1916-1917, in which he and others acted
as percipients. In his own case the procedure was as follows : Dr
Dietz shuffled a pack of cards, then, with closed eyes, cut it ; he then
wrapped the top card in photographic black paper or placed it in a
book. Later this was done by another person. The results were
(p. 105 ; I have added the chance expectation in each case) : 4712
guesses, entirely right 128 (chance expectation 91), value right 403
(chance expectation 363), suit right 1348 (chance expectation 1178),
colour right 2433 (chance expectation 2356). These results are
rather odd : the degree of success increases with the difficulty of the
task. That is, the proportion of successes progressively increases
from colour only right to those that were entirely right.
Dr Tenhaeff contributes a study of veridical hallucination to the
fifth number, from which it appears that it is proposed to undertake
a Dutch census of hallucinations. In the sixth number the same
writer begins a contribution to the psychology of those supernor-
mally endowed. In the fourth number Mr De Fremery points to
the difficulty of establishing telekinesis in any satisfactory way.
It will be seen that the Tijdschrift attempts to cover the whole
field of psychical research and its kindred studies. On the whole,
it has so far done this successfully, and if it will in future avoid
irrelevancies such as astrology and medicine, it should have a long
and useful life.
Psychic Research, October 1929.
Mr Bird prints the first instalment of what promises to be a very
lengthy survey of so-called experimental telepathy. I say " so-
called " because Mr Bird devotes a large part of this instalment to
Miss Jephson's recent experiments in clairvoyance, one of the objects
of which was to exclude telepathy. In addition Mr Bird summarises
Dr Bruck's well-known experiments. But the most interesting part
of his article is an informal account of the wireless experiment in
thought-transference condiicted by him and by Dr Gardner Murphy
from Newark in 1924. (I may remark parenthetically that Mr Bird
seems not to be aware of the similar S.P.R. experiment). Before
commenting on this experiment I prefer to wait until the official
figures are published. I hope that Dr Murphy and Mr Bird will pay
special attention in their report to the results of their first test. In
this the percipients were asked to think of a number between 1 and
1,000, the number selected for transmission being 522. Of the 457
persons who replied 14 gave 999, 2 gave another number (it is not
stated which), and all the rest gave dift'erent nmnbers, none being
correct. This result, due purely to chance, is almost more remark-
DECEMBER1929 Notes on Periodicals 185
able than any known si;pernormal phenomenon. Mr Seal has kindly
worked out the probabilities for me and it appears that if 457 persons
guess a range of 998 numbers, the chance expectation would be that
631 numbers are not guessed at all, 289 numbers are guessed only
once, 66 are guessed twice, 10 are guessed three times, 1 number is
guessed four times, and so on. The odds against only two numbers
being guessed more than once are enormous.
Dr Carringt-on propounds a theory of levitation, to the effect that
this phenomenon is due to telekinetic energy emitted by the medium
and directed at the earth. But the earth being, for this purpose,
immovable, the medium is in the result levitated. When the
existence of a telekinetic force is satisfactorily established this theory
will certainly have to be taken into account. Dr Burns's studies in
apparent obsession are drawing to their close. Mr Bird records an
interesting precognitive dream experienced by ]\Irs Bird, in which
several details of a rather unusual motor accident were foreseen.
In my comments on Mr Price's report of his Rudi Schneider
sittings [Journal, xxv. 170) I said that his temperature chart not
only shows no supernormal variations in temperature, but no
temperature at all. Mr Bird now explains in his editorial notes that
this is the result of an unfavourable printing process.
Proceedings of the American SP.R., vol. xx-xxi.
This volume, which takes the place of the 1926 and 1927 volumes
of the Proceedings, though published some time ago, has only just
reached us. It is the first volume of a complete record of the Margery
mediumship. A review of it must therefore be reserved until the
work is completed. In the meanwhile we can only hope that these
bibliographical complications w411 soon be straightened out.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
October 1929.
This number opens with two articles in memory of the late Mr
McKenzie. The editorial notes, which follow, though written from
a definitely biased point of view, are as usual sensible and temperate.
The larger part of this issue is occupied by an article on " Tele-
plasmic Phenomena in Winnipeg," by Dr T. Glen Hamilton. These
phenomena have occurred in connection with two uneducated
women, the mediumship of one of whom is said to date back to 1921.
No phenomena, however, are described from earlier than April 1928,
a date subsequent, I believe, to a sitting or sittings given by Margery
in Dr Hamilton's house. The importance of this will be realised if
the photographs of the Winnipeg teleplasm are compared with those
taken in connection with Margery. (There is also a Walter-Control
in Winnipeg). Dr Hamilton publishes side by side (plate no. 15)
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 192»
portraits of Spurgeon taken in life and supernormally at these
sittings. To my mind the similarities are of decidedly suspicious
kinds. The photographs taken at the sittings of the Spurgeon-
Control rival those of Eva C. in definition and normal photographic
quality.
Psychological Review, ^^'^temhex
Mr S. J. Holmes of the University of California prints an inter-
esting accQ-unt of visual hallucinations experienced by him during
the early part of his convalescence from an ilhaess. These halluci-
nations seem to have been coloured, stereoscopic, and generally
lifelike. The writer imfortunately omits to state the nature of his
illness, the degree of wakefulness dming the hallucinations, and
other vital points.
The Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, July-September
1929.
This number contains two interesting papers on subjects connected
with hypnotism. One is by Mr Clarke L. Howell, of Yale University,
on quantitative methods of investigating waking suggestion. The
subject is connected with a pulley to an apparatus working a l^ymo-
graph drum. Suggestions relating to movement are then given, the
subject's reactions being registered through the pulley on to the
drum. The conditions were varied and interesting though as yet
inconclusive results were obtained. It is to be hoped that this
experiment will be continued. The other article referred to is
on the psychotherapeutic value of hypnoidalization, by Dr Jacob
Goldwyn of the Worcester State Hospital, who describes four cases in
detail. Th.B.
No. 4(il.—Vol. XXVI. January 1930.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CASE.
P. 299. An Auditory Premonition.
Miss Nea Walker writes :
In August this year I received a letter from Mrs Leonard telling
me of a small disaster wliich. had happened to her apparently because
she had omitted to attend to a warning given to her by Feda, her
Control. As often happens, the warning came in the form of a
command not to do a certain thing (in this case not to hold her
sittings in the usual room), but no reasons were given. As Mrs
Leonard could not understand the warning, and could herself find
no reason for it, she ignored it, since to attend to it would have been
very inconvenient.
Her husband was the only person to whom she mentioned the
warning before the justification for it appeared. This is unfortunate,
but knowing her. Sir Oliver Lodge and one or two others who have
seen the letter, feel that the story can be accepted as perfectly true,
and that it should be recorded. I only heard of it because Mrs
Leonard happened to be writing to me just after the disaster ; it
was not sent to me for publication at all.
I have tried to make the story more valuable from an S.P.R.
point of view by asking a few questions of Mrs Leonard as to the
manner in which the warning reached her. These, and i\Irs Leonard's
answers, and Mr Leonard's corroboration, I append to the extracts
from the letter.
Extracts from a letter {dated 7 August [1929^^) from Mrs Leonard to
MissN. Waller:
" Such a horrid thing has happened. Yesterday, while I was
having a sitting (fortunately towards the end) the ceiling of the
room gave way, and came down, over six feet in diameter, and the
rest is all cracked. It was like an explosion, the noise, tho' Feda
kept murmuring as she retired (which she did very quietly so as not
.2 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli Januakt ]<j30
to upset me more than she could help), '
It's all right—it's all right.'
The sitter threw herself on top of me, and the notetaker on top of
the sitter. Neither the sitter nor I were hit, though pieces of very-
heavy material weighing 20 or 30 pounds just missed us, but a piece
struck the notetaker on the head. I do hope she Avill be all right.
It seemed a terrible lump on her head.
" Vases of flowers were knocked over, water and cement ran onto
and into everything, including the piano. You never saw such a
horrid mess.
" I thought that I recovered from the shock beautifully except
for a congested feeling in the head, but later on I felt really ill,
horribly sick all night, a thing that never happens to me, and faint-
ing, not a wink of sleep, put oJJ sitters to-day, feel better to-night. . . .
" On examining the ceiling (what's left of it) I fear that having
the electric fittings in did the mischief. And now I find that our
bedroom, that was fitted out for the U.V. Eay lamp, looks as if it
might cave in at the ceiling, so I have got to get it all seen to.
They were splendid, very thick plaster ceilings, but so heavy that
when once there was a weakness, they had to come down. . . .
" The wonderful thing is, that I heard Feda tell me, three times,
while I was on my holiday, towards the end, not to sit in that room
when I returned home.' I told my husband, but as neither of us
could see any reason for it, and it would have been a bother changing
rooms, we put it off, with unpleasant results. I was pleased I had
told him what I heard, but sorry I didn't obey orders. '
They '
are
always right if they give one these curious instructions in so definite
a manner. Probably Feda did not know it was the ceiling, but
simply knew something was wrong in the room. Have changed my
bedroom, till I get the other ceiling seen to. ...
"
Questions asked by Miss N. Wall-er {2 September 1929) and Mrs.
Leonard's written replies (2 November 1929) :
Q. : The date or dates on which the warnings came, if obtainable ?
Anyway the approximate time, and any information which settled
that.
A. : Between the ITth and 24th of July. This was the last week
of my holidays—so I remember it clearly. There were three occasions.
Two of the warnings were given mentally. One seemed to be direct
Voice. All came early in the mornings, soon after waking.
I received a warning regarding my bedroom ceiling directly I
arrived home on the 24th July. As I opened a cupboard door in
an unused bedroom, I heard an inward, but very strong, voice say
' Stop sleeping in your usual room, come and sleep in here." I did
so the next day, but had no idea why.
January 1930 Case 3
After the Seance room ceiling fell, we asked the builder to examine
my bedroom (the recently vacated one). He said it must come
down. A few weeks later, when the workmen began to tackle it, a
large portion came down by itself, immediately over my bed (where
the bed had been) and nearly buried a workman who was standing
under it, but no large piece hit him, fortunately.
Q. : Date of the fall of the ceiling ? That will be the same as the
"date of the sitting, which of course you know.
A. : Tues. afternoon, Aug. 6th.
Q. : Had you any idea previously, conscious idea that is, that
the ceilings were likely to be in a weak state I Can you think of
anything which might have suggested it to you ?
A. : I had no idea of any kind. The ceiling that fell, and the bed-
room that was declared dangerous were both in the modern part of
the house.
The ceiling that fell looked perfect, the best in the house. I have
never been in a house, before, where a ceiling fell. It is a contingency
that has never entered my mind.
Q. : Can you tell how the warnings came to you, I mean the form
in which they came ? Was there an externalised voice, or an
inward voice, or a dream, or automatic writing, or merely an idea ?
Please give as much information about this as you can. And at
"what intervals of time did the warnings come ?
A. : I should say it was an " inward voice " on two occasions,
iind an external one on the third occasion. A couple or three days
in between each warning.
Q. : Will Mr Leonard please corroborate your statement that you
1;old him of the warnings ? And if by chance any third party was
told, and their verification of knowing before the event is available,
it would be valuable.
A. (by Mr Leonard) : I remember distinctly my wife telling me
on three occasions that she had been warned not to sit in the usual
.seance room on her return home. (Signed) F. W. Leonard.
Q. : If the Sitter and Note-taker have anything to say about the
event, and about what Feda did and said at the moment, it might
be useful ? They seem to have had remarkable presence of mind.
A. : The sitter said that Feda simply murmured several times,
It's all right. It's all right," and left quietly.
At the time and during the evening I felt no shock whatever but
immediately after going to bed (as soon as I began to try to sleep)
I had a really bad pain, like a bruised feeling in, and over, the
stomach. After half an hour, I began to be violently sick. This
continued for some hours, with faintness and exhaustion. I rested
in bed all next day, too weak to stand up but was all right for work
again the day after. I am never sick, normally.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January i930'
[The letter and statements quoted above have been seen by me.
The incident has been classed as a premonition, bat of course so
serious a fall of the ceiling must have been preceded by tell-tale
marks in or sounds from it ; and in the nature of the case the
possibility that these indications may have been observed by Mrs
Leonard unconsciously, or in trance, cannot be ruled out. Ed.'\
NOTE CONCEKNING THE HACKING CASE.
By J. Arthur Hill and Mrs E. M. Sidgwick.
Our readers may remember that in 1925 a pamphlet by Mr W.
Harrison Barwell entitled The Spirit Return of Mr Hacking was
published by The Two Worlds Publishing Co., Ltd. The case was
reprinted from The Two Worlds and it quotes communications
obtained in Mr Barwell's private circle at Sheffield with no profes-
sional medium present and purporting to come from Mr Hacking, a
deceased schoolmaster of Bury in Lancashire. The case is a remark-
able one on account of the large amount of detailed information,
topographical and personal, given about Bury and its inhabitants,
much of which was ascertained to be true, although the medium said
he was imacquainted with Bury and we have fomid no reason to
disbelieve his statement. We endeavoiu'ed in various ways to carry
the study of the case fiirther. By the kindness of Mr Barwell,
Mr Hill was present at four sittings in Mr Barwell's circle. Among
other things he received from a communicator other than Mr
Hacking a good deal of new matter concerning the topography and
former inhabitants of a district in Yorkshire many miles from Bury
in Lancashire, matter which he afterwards verified by enquiries on
the spot. We do not, however, feel that our various researches add
sufficiently to the evidence in the case to warrant publication at
present. It is to be hoped that the mediima will develop further,
and that through him, or some other medium, more light may be
thrown on the source of the knowledge shown. Meanwhile the notes
and correspondence, to some extent private and confidential, accu-
mulated concerning the case by both investigators are in the
keeping of Mr Hill, who may in due coiirse hand them over to the
S.P.R. In the meantime he will be glad to hear from anyone
who may happen to have information to give connected with the
subject.
January 1930 Notes on Psychology of Nonsense Names 5
NOTES ON THE PSYCHOLOGY OF NONSENSE NAMES.
By H. F. Saltmarsh.
In tlie series of sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott recently reported
in Proceedings it was found that a considerable number of queer
names were given and certain peculiarities in these names were
noticed. Some details are given in the Report {Proceedings, xxxix.
98-9). An attempt has been made to throw some light on the
genesis of these names by an experiment in which a number of
persons were asked to invent sets of nonsense names. They were
requested to keep their minds as blank as possible and to write
down the names as they came. By a study of these names it was
hoped that some parallels with the peculiarities noticed with
IMrs Elliott might be discovered. The subject-matter is from its
nature very nebulous and is treated here in a rather rough and
ready fashion. Had opportunity permitted, a deeper investigation
by means of free association tests might have been undertaken, but
this would have entailed the expenditiu"e of a large amount of
time and labour on the part of everyone concerned for which the
importance of the question was not sufficient justification. More-
over the rough and ready method of simple inspection of the names
has sufficed to reveal certain tendencies, which, if applicable to the
phenomena of mediumistic communications, throw some light on
the subject.
The primary requisite for dealing with the matter is to adopt
some system of classification for the names. The most obvious
division is into real inventions and common nonsense names.
Examples of the first class are : Estimol, Ralula, Simoes, Pureeto,
Quostick, Borawell, etc. ; of the second : Billikins, Jim-jam,
Hanky-panky, Dumpy, Cruikshanlis, and so on.
Another division is into what may be called literary soimding
and comic names. Of the first Anty-dotomor, Talacunate, Carmon,
Bortholotus, may be cited as examples ; of the second, Plimple,
Honk, Snufters, and Wumpff.
There is also a well-defined class which I have called dual names.
These are those names which consist of two parts having a similar
soimd and differing only in the initial letters, like Rmito-punto, or
in the vowel soimd, as in Jim-jam. Double names with less close
resemblance between the two parts, as in Wickle Wambles, may also
be considered as a type of duals.
A further class may be termed the childish names, that is to say,
names of the kind which naturally tend to be used with children,
such as Chick-a-biddy, Duckums ; those ending in -kins usually fall
-into this class.
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1930'
Certain names show their associative origin clearly on the surface^
for example, association with place names, as in Verycombe from a
contributor whose home is in Devonshire ; others have a sort of
family likeness to some foreign language.
Twenty persons took part in this experiment. Of these seven
produced lists of names consisting mainly or entirely of real inven-
tions. The lists of eleven contained mostly common names ; two
failed altogether. While those of the second class may occasionally
produce a real invention by a sort of transitory flash of genius, it is
rare for a member of the first class to lapse from his high estate and
condescend to a common name. Among the second class we find
several who state that they experienced difficulty in thinlving of
names. It may be concluded that the faculty of inventing nonsense
names is not given to everybody. The classical example of real
nonsense names is, of course, Lewis Carroll ; the names invented by
him, in Jabberwocky for example, amount to sheer genius.
In the group of people before us, the best inventors have given
as a whole names of a literary character ; their lists contain few, if
any, common names, no duals and no childish names. The next best
are those whose names are of the type here termed comic. Inven-
tion with these does not seem to flow so freely, but this may be
merely accidental for this particular group of persons. There is a
tendency for common names to creep in, also for duals ; the tendency
to childish names, if it exists, is probably consciously resisted.
Following these are the best of the second class. With them^com-
nion names or approximations thereto constitute the larger part,
duals are frequent, and the tendency to childish is very apparent-
The remainder of this class should properly be counted as failures ;
their prodtictions are so hackneyed that invention can hardly be said
to have played any part.
Although the number taking part in the experiment is not suffi-
ciently large to afford a sound basis for generalisation, the following
seems to be indicated. The scale of inventive faculty seems to
descend from literary, through comic, to duals and childish. There
appears to be some connection between the two latter types of
names. I have frequently noticed that many people, in talking to
young children, tend to use many repetitions of the same words or
similar sounds. This is probably due to the fact that the first vocal
efforts of the infant consist of repetitions of the same meaningless
sounds and those talking to them imitate this habit.
The important fact arising from this experiment is as follows.
Among the best inventors there is, in a good proportion of cases,
clear evidence of habit. One contributor sent in two lists of f5
names each, made on different days ; the first list is all of words of
three syllables ; the terminations " al," " ol," " ul " occur five.
January 1030 Notes OH Psychology of Nonsense Names
times in this list but not once in the second. All the words m both
lists have what may be called a probable sound ; they might easily
be taken for words of a foreign language ;
there is a strong individual
character about all of them. Another contributor sent a list of
27 names, most of which had a distinct Greek soimd and there was
a tendency to begin with P or Ph. This contributor informed me
that he is not a Greek scholar, and though he learned Greek at
school, he has forgotten all he learned. Probably subconscious
memory came into''play. Here again there is a strong individual
character about the names. In another case there are some signs of
German influence ; this contributor, however, knows German. In
another case where the contributor knows and speaks several
foreign languages fluently, there is no sign of foreign influence ;
most of the names are of the comic variety, which probably accounts
for this rather unexpected feature. Had the undoubted literary
tendencies of this contributor been uppermost in his mind when
inventing the names, probably some signs of foreign influence
would have showed. The evidence of habit among those of poorer
inventive faculty is less apparent, though there is one case where
eight of the duals out of eleven have P as the initial letter for the
second term, as in Eunto Punto.
Turning now to Mrs Elliott's names, there is a complete absence
of duals and childish names ; the absence of common names might
seem to be due to the fact that the queer ones only have been picked
out, but a sm-vey of the whole of the names given in the sittings
shows very few of the common type ; the majority of the names
given are ordinary Christian names which do not come into this
inquiry at all.
The most marked habit with Mrs Elliott is the tendency to com-
mence nonsense names with the initial 0. It was suggested that this
might be due to the influence of a childish association with her
maiden name, Ortner, and it was hoped that this experiment might
show examples of similar association. None such, however, can be
traced, so the matter must be left undetermined. The experiment
has shown that name habits do exist, particularly among those
whose inventive faculty is good ;
Mrs Elliott undoubtedly belongs
to this class. The invention of real nonsense names probably works
by means of association, whereas the production of common names
is a mere question of memory. What these associations are in any
particular case could probably be discovered by means of the psycho-
analytic technique, but the importance of the matter does not
warrant the expenditure of the requisite time and energy.
The conclusions, then, to which we may arrive, tentatively, as the
result of this experiment are as follows :
(1) The faculty of inventing nonsense names varies with different
8 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research January 1930
individuals, ranging from complete incapacity np to what might be
called genius.
(2) Habits are displayed by many persons ; these habits are more
apparent among those whose inventive faculties are good.
(3) Nonsense names show a tendency to be associated with
certain types of real names, such as a particular language, a peculiar
construction, place names, and so on.
(4) The cause of this association varies with the individual. No
attempt has been made to discover the cause in any particular
case, but it may be surmised that it lies in his or her past history.
COERESPONDENCE.
The Spirit-Hypothesis.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I had no desire to intervene in the interesting discussion of
the spirit-hyjjothesis by Mrs Kingsley and Mr Soal ; but as the
latter implies that in the last thirty years I must have changed my
mind, I suppose I must contribute my mite.
May I begin by p)ointing out that I have dealt with the very
subject under discussion much less than thirty years ago, namely in
my paper in The Case for and against Psychical Belief (1927), especi-
ally pj). 223-i ? I do not feel that I have therein altered my attitude
materially. Nor can I see that the rise of psychoanalysis has altered
the status of " unconscious " psychic process at all. For strict
psychological orthodoxy it remains as paradoxical as ever. Indeed
it can now be disposed of more summarily by means of behaviour-
ism, and if orthodoxy had to choose between psychoanalysis and
behaviourism, it would doubtless jjrefer the latter.
Moreover the methodological advantages of spiritualism seem to
remain. All the facts Mr Soal mentions at xxv. 177 were known
before ; and it has not grown more convincing than formerly to
urge that because a belief is primitive it must be wrong. It may
also be right. And though the general tendency of psychic pheno-
mena to assume a spiritualistic form can be explained away, if we
are willing to make a number of complica.ted assumptions, it yet
remains one of their primary characteristics, in spite of the excep-
tional cases to which Mr Soal refers.
I agree, of course, with Mr Soal that the spirit-hypothesis is "so
wide, so vague, so convenient, that it can be safely applied to
almost anything "
(p. 179). But it shares these advantages Avith all
the other hypotheses, and this for the reason that they are all alike
projected upon a background of almost total ignorance. So we are
entitled to ask : is the devil a less elastic hypothesis ? Or the deity,
January 1930 Correspondence 9
alias the " cosmic reservoir " ? Or universal all-embracing tele-
pathy ? All these allegations seem to explain everything, simply
because we hardly know what we mean by them and know too little
about the facts to set limits to their operations.
What is the remedy 1 Surely not that we should rule out any
hypothesis a priori, out of the plenitude of our ignorance, but that
we should explore them all, and gradually determine their natures
and the limits of their powers. Surely that is the way to find out
w^hat we should mean by terms like " spirits," " demons," " sub-
liminal," " telepathy," etc. And it is also safe to predict that any
knowledge we acquire is sure to modify and transform the meaning
of our terms.
Yours, etc.,
F. C. S. Schiller.
REVIEWS.
Alta L. Piper, The Life and Worl: of Mrs Piper. Introduction by
Sir Oliver Lodge. 8vo, pp. xi. 204, 9 portraits and facsimiles.
London : Kegan Paul, 1929. Price 7s. 6d. net.
A pleasant and interesting biography written by a dutiful and
appreciative daughter of a kind and gifted mother. This strain quite
properly runs through the whole story. The loyalty of the authoress
is conspicuous in every discussion personal to her mother. The life
of Mrs Piper, the celebrated medium, is described from her earliest
childhood till the present day with special reference to her super-
normal power and her relations with distinguished researchers like
Professor William James, Sir Oliver Lodge (who has written an
introduction), Dr Hodgson, and others. Many incidents of the family
life are also included which have no direct connection with psychical
matters. The book is one for interested readers rather than for
scientific students. The latter, if they wish to study Mrs Piper's
work must refer to the records of the Society, in which it has been
voluminously discussed from every point of view. Some readers
may be encouraged to become students by an agreeable introduction
to the subject and the indication of the material for future inquiries.
Mrs Piper had some psychic experiences in her childhood, but the
discovery of her mediumistic powers came accidentally more than
three years after her marriage. AVhile attending a healing and
development circle, apparently for a cure of her own j^hysical ail-
ments, she was suddenly entranced after being touched by the
medium. In this state she received by automatic writing a com-
munication for one of the sitters purporting to come from his deceased
son. The sitter welcomed it gratefully and was convinced of its
authenticity (pp. 17, 18). She then began to give occasional sittings,
10 Journal of Society for FsychicaL Research January 1930
but with some reluctance. Professor William James hearing of her
achievements proceeded to test her and after several sittings was
convinced of the supernormal nature of her sittings. Owing to the
jjressure of other work he made over these duties to Dr Hodgson, who
was associated with her from 1887 till his sudden death in 1905. An
account of his death preceded by what may have been a warning
and accompanied by a dream of Mrs Piper's is given in pp. 116-119.
Later arrangements for her work in the United States and England
are mentioned. The various Controls are noticed, especially the
Imperator Group. At first the voice was used (p. 84), then came a
period of automatic writing ; there was trance with both methods.
On p. 86 is an interesting account of three communications being
made simultaneously, one through the voice and two by automatic
writing, both hands being used. With the temporary retirement of
the Imperator Group in 1911 trance was replaced by conscious
automatic writing; in 1915 it began again (pp. 172, 178). A later
phenomenon is Mrs Piper's power of giving consciously in a waking
state with her normal voice spiritual advice of the kind that used to
be given by Rector in trance (pp. 88, 89). Some of the most striking
incidents of her m.ediumship are mentioned with more or less detail.
There are several chapters about cross-correspondences and one of
aphorisms. There are descriptions, some of which seem strange
now-a-days. of the early precautions taken to test and restrict the
medium's normal knowledge, and of the experiments to gauge the
depth of her trance. Mrs Piper had to submit to measures requiring
great patience on her part. No complaint is made except of one
experiment for Avhich the Society had no more than an indirect and
technical responsibility (pp. 169-175.) It is satisfactory to find the
emphatic approval of the Society's arrangements expressed in the
last paragraph of p. 175.
Other explanations than the spiritualistic theory for the pheno-
mena are briefly considered. The problem is similar to that which
I discussed in the article " Life Beyond Death with Evidence " in
the Journal for March 1929 (xxv. 50-59). In conclusion the authoress
cjuotes Sir Oliver Lodge's appreciation of her mother's service to the
difficult science of psychical research, a tribute w^hich the general
opinion of the Society will cordially endorse, \y Trethewy.
Gwendolyn Kelley Hack, Modern Psijchic Mysteries, Millesimo'
Castle, Italy. With Preface and Articles by Professor Ernesto
Bozzano. 8vo, pp. 368, 21 ill. London : Rider & Co., 1929..
Price 18s. net.
Millesimo Castle, in the Province of Savona, Italy, is the home of
the Marquis Carlo Centurione Scotto, and the scene of some remark-
January 1930 Bevieu's 11
able incidents occurring through the mediumship of its owner and of
Signora Fabienne Rossi. These phenomena are largely of two tjipes :
the direct voice, stated to manifest through the mediumship of the
Marquis, and apports, for which Signora Rossi's mediumship is
declared to be responsible.
The Marquis Centurione Scotto, having lost a son, had sittings
with the medium Yaliantine in Mr Bradley's house, and as a result
of the phenomena there produced he decided to try and obtain the
so-called direct voice himself. Sittings were held in Millesimo Castle
and at his house in Genoa, at which remarkable phenomena were
soon obtained, consisting, as already noted, of apports as well as of
the direct voice, thoiigh the apports never occurred in the absence
of Signora Rossi. These sittings were reported on in Luce e Omhra
by Signor Bozzano. whose reports have attracted great attention
ever}'where, and especially in England. They have now been
published in book form together with supplementary material, the
whole edited by Mrs Hack.^ The general interest thus aroused
seems to make it necessary to \mte the present review. For it
cannot be disguised that Signor Bozzano 's reports do not in them-'
selves merit serious attention on evidential grounds. They show an
almost complete lack of understanding of what constitutes good
evidence and adequate recording of mediumistic sittings. Grounds
for this accusation can be foimd on every page of his reports ; but
it is unnecessary to attempt a detailed criticism, the more so as this
task has already been admirably performed (in regard to Signor
Bozzano's original Italian reports) by Herr Lambert in the Zcil-
schrifi filr Parapsychologie (1929, iv. 465-482). I am in full agree-
ment with nearly all the remarlis of Herr Lambert. Here I merelv
propose to touch briefly on those incidents and types of incidents to
which Signor Bozzano has drawn special attention in the Preface
which he has contributed to the present volume. This Preface he
concludes with the words (p. 19) :
" All of which goes to prove that
the endeavour to controvert my statements will be not only an
arduous undertaking, but will prove to be literally an impossible
task." These words show, in no uncertain way, the importance
which Signor Bozzano expects us to attach to his reports ; let us,,
nevertheless, essay this impossible task.
A few general observations are first necessary. These sittings were
held (with a few unimportant exceptions) without any measures of
control whatever, in complete darkness, with a gramoi^hone playing
practically all the time, in the Marquis Centurione Scotto's o\vn_
^ In the present review I take into account only Signor Bozzano's reports.
The remainder of the book (with the exception of a few pages by Professor
Castellani) is too confused and ill-arranged to be seriously considered, apart
from being disfigured by scores of misprints and literal mistakes.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1930
home, in the presence of his family and friends, those present not
being searched, the seating arrangements not being described (though
it appears from certain incidents that the two mediums sat side by
side), and in a room which is nowhere directly described. Indirect
observations and two rough sketches (not to scale and apparently
not parts of the original reports) show us that this room has doors
on three of its sides and a Avindow (opening apparently over a
garden) on the fourth side.
The first type of phenomenon to which Signor Bozzano draws the
special attention of critics is the " infallible precision "
(p. 7) with
w^hich the trumpets " whirl and twist about with great speed " and
" in total darkness." Signor Bozzano declares that this could be
done only if the performers were " nictalopes " [sic], that is, were
able to see in the dark. This not being the case (of course we are
not told how Signor Bozzano knows this not to be the case), " it
w'ould be impossible to obtain [these phenomena] by fraudulent
means."
Wliat are the facts ? I open the book at random at p. 174 and
find that in the sitting described on that page, " Mile Chiappini
twice received a rather violent knock on the head," " The Marquis
felt a blow on his right side," " Bozzano was knocked on the head
[see below]," and the Marquis received " a hard knock on the head."
Is this what Signor Bozzano considers such " infallible precision
"
that it must be ascribed to supernormal agency ?
I turn, in Signor Bozzano's words, " to a second physical pheno-
menon which is equally imjjossible to obtain by fraudulent methods
"
(p. 8). This phenomenon is the cold currents felt at many sittings
from various directions, streams of air which seem sometimes to
have attained great strength. A classic method of fraudulently
producing this phenomenon is by means of collapsible rubber
Ijalloons, which can be brought into the seance-Toom in a waistcoat
pocket or in even smaller receptacles. These balloons are then
blown up and deflated separately or together, while held at various
angles or while being moved about. It will be noted that while this
is being done the medium has full liberty of speech. It is even
possible for the medium to be controlled during the deflation of the
balloons, for these can be put down in convenient places and allowed
to deflate themselves, the deflated balloons being collected later as
convenient.
Now, on the same page already quoted from (p. 174) we find the
following passage (my italics) :
" The icy wind was stronger than
ever, the mediums [ !
] in the circle stating that they felt chilled to
the marrow. M. Passini was touched on the knee by one of the
trumpets, and Bozzano was knocked on the Jiead by something of an
clastic nature which felt like a big indiarubber balloon.'" It is surely
Janvaey 1930 licvicics 13
evidence of an utterly uncritical habit of thought that Signer
Bozzano actually wrote these two sentences without even suspecting
(or giving any sign of suspecting) a causal connection between the
incidents described in them.
Next Signor Bozzano adduces the playing during the sittings of a
North American musical instrument called the flexatone." He
writes (p. 9) that " no one had ever heard of it before, no one knew
how to play it, and its technique appears difficult to acquire." The
" flexatone " is first mentioned on p. 85 ; we are not told at whose
suggestion so unexpected an instrument was introduced into the
sittings and for what reason, especially as no one " had ever heard
of it before "
;
nor, although " apported " swords and other objects,
pictorially quite banal, are illustrated and described at length
(though of course not in their evidentially imjjortant aspects), does
Signor Bozzano think it worth while to illustrate or adequately to
describe this instrument. I have been unable to find any reference
to a " flexatone " in the standard musical and other works of refer-
ence. Under these circumstances we lack all the facts necessary to
enable us to form any kind of judgment as to the merits of Signor
Bozzano's claim.
The next phenomenon emphasised by Signor Bozzano (pp. 9-10)
I cannot deal with as it occurred at a sitting not reported on in the
book under review.
Next we have the apports and " asports," that is, the objects
supernormally introduced into and removed from the room. The
evidence for the supernormal nature of these phenomena is so slight
that it requires a mental efiort even seriously to criticise it. However,
I will briefly touch on one or two of the phenomena of this type
which Signor Bozzano considers to be of special importance. At the
last sitting described in the book (pp. 316-320) the doors were sealed
at the request of the Control, though not of course as a measure of
control, but merely " in order to delay the sitting " so as to enable
a late comer to take part (p. 315) : the window is not mentioned.
On this occasion, the only one in the series under consideration in
which even this nominal amount of control was introduced, a doll
and a sword were " apported " from what appears (for of course we
are not told) to be the next room. The doll is described as " big
"
and as " enormously large "
(p. 320) : but from the illustrntion
(facing p. 312, measurements being of coujse not given), this doll
would seem to be at most 15 inches high. The sword is also illus-
trated (facing p. 328), but of course without measurements. It
would seem to be a short sword in its scabbard, of the kind used by
footmen against horses, and about two feet long. (This sword is
described [p. 320] as " exceedingly heavy " ; of course the weight is
not given, but it is obviously a contradiction in terms to describe
1-i Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1930
any practicable sword, sucli as this, as " exceedingly heavy "). It
will be seen that it is not even necessary to assume the co-operation
of an accomplice : both these objects could easily be hidden in a
woman's dress ; the reader will remember that no apport ever
occurred in the absence of one of the mediums, Signora Rossi.
Another apport to which Signor Bozzano specifically directs
attention in his Preface (pp. 10-11 ;
cp. pp. 86, 99) is one in which
the Control announced to the Marchioness Centurione Scotto that
a near relative of hers was destined to die. The Marchioness asked
who this relative was, and in reply a framed photograph of the
person in question was " apported." This incident Signor Bozzano
considers so evidentially .strong that it is in itself " enough to put
to confusion all the monotonous and ignorant harangues of the
adherents of the theory of universal fraud "
(p. 99). This modest
claim is based on the alleged facts (1) that "the hypothetical
fraudulent medium must have guessed that a near relation [s^'c] of
the Centurione Scotto's [sic] would be taken seriously ill two days
later and would eventually die (p. 99), and (2) that the Marchioness
" would ask him just such a question," framed " on the spur of the
moment "
(p. 99).
What are the facts l As regards (1) Signor Bozzano has radically
altered the statement of the Control, which was, according to Signor
Bozzano's own report (p. 86) :
" Destiny will bring you the death
of a near relation [.s;c]." There is here no mention of any illness nor
of any period of time. Already the prophecy has practically no
evidential value. What value remains in it when we remember that
the medium in question is the Marquis himself and when we read
the following exclamation of the Marchioness's (p. 86, my italics) :
" Oh, speak, speak, d'Angelo [the Control] ! Is it really true ? The
last news was excellent. He was recovering rapidly " ? As regards
(2) I can only say that the question which Signor Bozzano regards
as so strikingly unexpected is in my o^^inion precisely the one that
is most obvious and the one that is, in fact, invariably asked under
such circumstances.
Signor Bozzano proceeds to still further " conclusive " instances,
such as the levitation of the Marquis with a chair and his " asporta-
tion " from the room ; but it seems useless to continue our analysis.
It must be already obvious that Signor Bozzano's claims are wholly
unfounded, and that the Millesimo sittings have not the slightest
vestige of scientific value. All groups of jDeople have of course the
unquestionable right to sit in circles for their own edification ; but
to put forward such a book as this as a serious contribution to
jDsychical research, and to put it forward with such dogmatic claims
of infallibility as Signor Bozzano's, is to bring our subject into
contempt and disrepute. Theodore Besterman.
Januaey 1930 Notes on Periodicals 15
NOTES ON PEEIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, December 1929.
Mr Florizel voii Renter describes a sitting of Eudi Schneider's at
Brauuau in April 1928, which he thinks quite convincing and satis-
factory. In an account dated 7 February 1917, Fran M. Wagner
narrates some poltergeist experiences of hers in Potsdam. Herr
Willy Seidel contributes a paper on materialisation phenomena in
Eastern (chiefly Japanese) art.
Herr Fritz Priibusch considers it necessary to suggest once more
new names for different branches of " parapsychology." This he
would call " parabiology" Various other terms also crop up under
his pen, such as parascopy, paroscillatorics, proscopy. parakinetics,
paraplastics. If we had at our disposal half as many perfectly
attested observations of a positive kind in the domain of physical
phenomena as we have high-sounding scientific names, I should
deem psychical research singularly fortunate.
The last instalment of Dr Kroner's detailed account of George
Valiantine's exposure in Berlin in April last is printed, the writer
summing up the evidence. To me the most instructive side of the
whole episode is not so much Valiantine's fiasco as the part played
by his admirers and friends such as Mr Bradley, the latter going in
his attempts to prevent an exposure so far as to threaten the hostess
with an appeal to the Embassy of the United States to interfere in
the interest of an American citizen's health ! After reading the
Kroner report it is difficult to resist the conclusion that Mr Bradley's
name amply deserves to be added to the long list of those spiritual-
ists who, whatever their motives, complicate to the utmost the
psychical researcher's already arduous task.
Letters are printed in Dr. Kroner's paper from Professor Bozzano,
Mrs Bradley and Mrs Hack, describing test sittings given by
Valiantine, after leaving Berlin, in Genoa. It is very significant
that, whilst in her letter Mrs Bradley says that at the sitting given
at the request of the Editor of [Luce e] Omhra " marvellous pheno-
mena " occurred, all the seals remaining completely intact after,
Mrs Hack speaks of all the bindings being torn away in some
mysterious fashion. So great is the discrepancy that one almost
doubts whether the two ladies refer to the same sittings.
Kleine Mitteilungen in the same review inform us inter alia of the
demise of Herr Tartaruga's " Parapsychical Institute " in Vienna ;
Herr Wilhelm Geyer, of Wiirzburg, narrates a curious incident
occurring some years ago when he felt irresistibly compelled to insist
repeatedly on the presence at a certain party of a young teacher. If
the latter had complied with these summonses and come at the time
16 Journal oj Society jor Psychical Research January 1930
appointed lie would not have become the victim on the same even-
ing of a street scuffle. Herr R. Lambert reviews and discusses
volumes xxxvii and xxxviii of our Proceedings.
P -P S
Psychic Research, November 1929.
Messrs Dudley and Bird begin an account of a further series of
Margery sittings for thumbprints. Dr Burns concludes his further
studies in apparent obsession. The discussion of the current status
of the Schneider mediumships is most unprofitably continued with
a summary of what has gone before and a lengthy letter from Miss
May Walker in criticism of Dr Prince's and Mr Bird's adverse
reports on the Schneiders. The refutation of Miss Walker's observa-
tions offers very little difficulty to Mr Bird.
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, October-December 1929.
Earlier in the year Drs J. and Louisa E. Rhine published in the
journal under review (xxiii. 448-466) an investigation of Lady, a
" niind-reading " horse, which they had carried out with the assist-
ance of Professor McDougall. The investigators came to the con-
clusion, after careful tests during which they gradually eliminated
normal methods of communication, that Lady had a genuine
telepathic faculty. In the present issue Dr and Mrs Rhine publish
a second report on this horse, from which it appears that she has now
entirely lost her faculty, and this although she is now older and
under much better control than she was before. In the earlier series
the investigators found that Lady was most successful when she fell
into a curious passive state ; in the later series now reported on this
passive state had also disappeared. This cessation of faculty is very
greatly to be regretted, for the earlier report just mentioned offered
the first good, though I think still not conclusive, evidence for
thought-transference between a human and a lower animal mind.
Journal de Psychologic, July-October 1929.
This doiible number is one of considerable interest to students of
the psychological problems connected with psychical research.
Professor Claparede contributes (pp. 4.33-493) an encyclopaedic
survey of the problems of sleep, with a valuable bibliography of
recent publications. A posthumous study by Georges Lamarque
of the sensation of obstacles in the blind presents many points of
interest, to which I hope to return at a later date. Among the
shorter papers is one by M. Meyerson on " images-eclairs," a kind
of momentary, lightning visions of places and objects, experienced
in full consciousness. m -d
No. 462.—Vol. XXYI Febrxtary 1930.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Elected 17 December, 192f).
Buckley, H. F„ 20 Glenmoor RoacL AYinton, Bournemontli.
Chichester, Countess of, Stam^ier, Levres. Sussex.
Leisk, W. R. A., 2i Souning Road, Soutli Norwood,. London, S.E.
Librarian, The University. Birmingliam.
Mahony-Jones, Mrs, M.B., 1 Culverden Gardens, Tunliridge Wells.
Moss, C. A., 18 Clarendon Gardens, London, W. 9.
Smart, Rev. H. E., Holy Trinity Rectory. Exeter.
Stansfield, Mrs, TO Northcourt Avenue, Reading.
: Elected 15 January, 1930.
Clements, P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry.
Clements, Mrs P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry.
Fleming, Miss A. E., 3 Ch-ossfield Road, London, N.W. 3.
Hawkins, J. Gordon, 956 Post Street, San Francisco, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Haverford College Library, Haverford, Pa., U.S.A.
Myers, Hai-old H., 28 Ovington Square, London. S.W. 3.
Pattinson, G. P., Eagley Bank, nr. Bolton.
Roberts, C. E. B., 4 Derby Street, London, W. 1.
Slacke, Mrs, Journey"s End, Budleigb Salterton, S. Devon.
Spink, Mrs H., Broadwater, Wraysbury, Bucks.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 265th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 17 December 1929, at 5 p.m.. The
President in the chair. There were also present :
The Rt Hon.
B
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fkbruary 1930
G. W. Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, Dr William Brown, Miss
Ina Jephson, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S.
Schiller, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. WooUey ;
also Mr Theodore Besterman. Librarian and Editor.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eiglit new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
A letter was read from the Hon. Everard Feilding resigning his
seat on the Council, on account of his inability to attend Meetings
of the Council. The Council accepted Mr Feilding's resignation
with sincere regret, and expressed their appreciation of the services
he had rendered the Society, both as Council Member and in the
past as Hon. Secretary.
The Monthly Accounts for November 1929 were presented and
taken as read.
It was agreed to hold the Annual General Meeting for Members
of the Society on Thursday, 27 Fe1)ruary 1930.
The 266th Meeting of the Council was held at .31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 1.5 January 1930, at 3.30 p.m.,
The President in the chair. There we're also present : The Rt
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr E. N. Bennett, Mr W. R. Bousfield, Miss
Ina Jephson, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry
Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. WooUey ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council w^ere read and
signed as correct.
Ten new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected Members
caused by the resignation of the Hon. Everard Feilding by appoint-
ing to it Miss Ina Jephson, hitherto a co-opted Member.
The Report of the Council for the year 1929 was considered and
approved as amended.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 103rd Meeting of the Society for Members and Associates was
held in the Library of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1,
on Tuesday, 17 December 1929, at 3.30 p.m., The President in
the Chair.
Febkuaiiy 1930 Private Meeting 19
Professor F. J. M. Stratton, D.S.O., read a paper eixtitled
" Some Haunted Houses," and several Members took part in tlie
discussion that followed.
THE FIRST MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE.
This first Myers Memorial Lecture, by Sir Oliver Lodge, together
with Sir Oliver Lodge's Memorial Address on F. W. H. Myers and
a bibliography of Myers's writings, has now been published in book
form under the title Conviction of Survival. It may be obtaineil
from the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. 1, price 2s. ;
remittances should be enclosed
with all orders.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1929.
Work of the Research Department. During the year a number of
investigations were carried out by the Hon. Research Officer and
Mrs Brackenbury. Accounts of two of these cases, both alleged
death premonitions, have been printed in the Journal in April and
June respectively (xxv. 66-68, 102-104). Two supposed poltergeist
hauntings were visited, in St Neots and in Lambeth, but in neither
case could any satisfactory evidence be obtained that the dis-
turbances were of a supernormal character. Two visits were paid
to a wood at Kingsdown in Kent where an apparition was stated to
have been seen by a number of people, but nothing abnormal
appeared on either occasion, and it seems that the supposed ghost
was an instance of practical joking.
A prolonged investigation by Mrs Brackenbury into the " tomb-
stone case " described by Sir Lawrence Jones in the Journal for
October 1928 (xxiv. 336-337), met with complete success so far as
concerns the grave and the tracing of the various living people
concerned, all of whom have been interviewed. It is hoped to
print the details later.
Two series of sittings were held during the year, with M. Pascal
Forthuny and with Mrs Brittain. M. Forthuny spent three weeks
in London as the guest of the Society and gave three open demon-
strations of his mediumship, as well as a nundjer of private sittings.
It is hoped to publish in Proceedings a report on the sittings with
M. Forthuny.
A-'isits were made to the Falconer brothers, the Edinburgh photo-
graphic mediums, and to a designer of an instrument (the so-called
Reflectograph) for receiving alleged spirit communications in the
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1930
dark. Sittings also took place with Mnie Kahl, who had been
previously visited by Mr Besterman (see Proceedings, xxxviii. 413-
433), and with Mrs Plaat, a psychometric and clairvoyant medium.
Althoixgh all these cases were of some interest, the results obtained
were not of sufficient importance to justify the printing of a
report.
Ex'periwents in Telepathj and Clairvoi/ance. The experiments in
telepathy and clairvoyance mentioned in the last Annual Report
have been continued in 1929, and a large amount of material has
been collected which will, it is hoped, prove of assistance towards
a better understanding of both these subjects. In fact, when the
number of percipients who have co-operated and other relevant
circumstances have been taken into account, the Council regard
these experiments as among the most important pieces of experi-
mental work which have been undertaken on the Society's
behalf.
The telepathy experiments under Mr Seal's direction with the
large group of nearly 700 persons with whom Mr Soal was brought
into touch through the B.B.C. came to an end in April ;
by that
time 71 experiments spread over 23 weeks had been held.
As many of this group had expressed their willingness to co-
operate in further experiments, Miss Jephson, Mr Soal and Mr
Besterman invited them to help in developing the lines of research
suggested by Miss Jephson's card-guessing experiments in 1928,
and 285 members of the group took part in the new series. The
cards to be guessed were enclosed in light-j^roof envelopes, sealed
in a particular way, the object being to reduce to the minimum the
chance of percipients obtaining, even accidentally, normal know-
ledge of the cards they had to guess.
This series came to an end, so far as this country is concerned,
in July 1929, but a further series is being conducted in the United
States, with the assistance of Professor Gardner Murphy, vv^ith a
group of percipients drawn from the Boston S.P.R.
Professor Fliigel atr University College, London, and Professor
Murphy at Columbia University, U.S.A., have also, at Miss Jeph-
son's siiggestion, conducted experiments on similar lines with their
students and have kindly placed the results at her disposal.
The work of tabulating and analysing the results of the English
series has been com]jleted, but in view of the further material to be
received from America, it will be some time before a Report or
Reports on the entire series, telepathic and clairvoyant, can be
expected.
Colonel Maxwell Dick and Colonel Hayward have both very
kindly acted as " scrutineers " during these experiments, and Dr
R. A. Fisher, F.R.S., and Dr E. S. Pearson of University College,
Fkbbuarv, 11)30 Avmud Report of the Council for 19^9 21
London, have been of the greatest help in meeting statistical
problems which have arisen from time to time. To these gentlemen
and to Miss Carruthers, who has continued to help in classifying
the replies, the Coiuicil wish to express their warm thanks, as also
to the large number of percipients all over the country who have
made the experiments possible. Although these experiments have
not achieved one of the results hoped for, namely the discovery of
percipients possessing telepathic or clairvoyant powers in a marked
degree, those who have conducted them are satisfied that, if a
wider view of the matter be taken, the work done has considerable
value and justifies the large expenditure, both of time and also of
money, which has been incurred.
Further Work consequent upon the Investigation of Mrs Warren
Elliott. As mentioned in previous Annual Reports the Society has.
in consequence of the numerous sittings held with Mrs Warren
Elliott and other mediums, a large number of well-aimotated
records of sittings with these mediums. Mr Saltmarsh. who ha ;
analysed the material for the Society, and has prepared a general
report on them (published in Proceedings, xxxix. 47-18 i). has been
engaged on a further analysis of particular aspects of these records.
The Seance-Room. With a view to giving every opportunity to
Members and Associates to conduct investigations into physical
phenomena, the Coimcil (as stated in the Journal for November
1928) is prepared to lend the *Sea?ice-Room for investigations of this
kind under suitable conditions. Only one application has so far
been received for the use of the Seance-'Room. by private members,
namely, an application by Dr Crandon. Mr Theron Pierce and Mr
Bligh Bond for the loan of the Seance-Room, for part of December
1929, for the purpose of holding sittings at which Mrs Crandon
{Margery) would give a demonstration of some of her phenomena.
Three sittings were accordingly held in December to which
several members of the Society and others were invited by Dr
Crandon, and under the conditions laid down by the Coimcil in
granting the application, the Hon. Research Officer was present at
all three sittings, as an observer only.
The Council are prepared to give to other members equal facilities,
but only on the understanding that the Hon. Research Officer, or a
representative nominated by the Council, should l^e entitled to be
present at all the sittings, though as an observer only.
Institution of the Myers Memorial Lecture. During the year,
largely owing to the generosity of Mrs F. W. H. Myers and other
members of the Myers family, and also of an anonymous donor, who
has on many other occasions helped in the Society's work, a Fund
of over £800 has been raised for the purpose of endowing a lecture
to be given periodically on any branch of psychical research, with
b2
Journal of Society for Psychical Research Feukuauy 1930
special reference " as far as may be to the work of F. W. H. Myers
as contained in his Human Personality.'' It is also intended that
the Fund should from time to time be used for making grants for
research work in connection with the lecture.
The Council have for some time past realised that one of the
most serious hindrances to the advancement of psychical research at
the present time is that what may be called the " classics " of
psychical research, especially Phantasms of the Living, of which
Myers was part author, and Human Personality, are neglected by
persons whose interest in psychical research is recent, and who
prefer as a basis for their studies more modern works, English and
foreign, mostly of a standard very inferior to these two books.
The Council hope that the Lecture, by reminding the public of
Myers's work, will do something to raise the level of reading in the
literature of psychical research and will also stimulate serious
research work.
The President, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, has taken a leading part
in raising this Fund and in formulating the scheme under which it
is to be administered. A Trust Deed has been executed, and
Trustees have been appointed to hold the Fimds. The Inaugural
Lecture under the Trust was delivered by Sir Oliver Lodge on the
18th Octol^er. This lecture, with additional material, has been
published in book form.
The Library. During the past year the Library has steadily
developed with the assistance of the grant from the Carnegie United
Kingdom Trust, which has now run about half its course. The
number of books and pamphlets now in the Library is over 6,400.
The number of Members using the Library has increased to 67, and
the number of volumes borrowed to 737. Members are reminded
that the Society is affiliated to the Central Library for Students and
to the Association of Special Libraries. Through these organisa-
tions the Society is able to obtain for its Members, free of cost,
information and the loan of books on all subjects. The Society, in
turn, undertakes to supply all rec|uired books and information on
psychical research to its fellow-members of the Central Library and
of the Association. This modern development in co-operative
librarianship for the first time enables the individual to obtain
information on any subject easily and quickly. Enquiries on this
subject should be addressed to the Librarian, S.P.R. During the
past year 38 volumes have been borrowed from the Society through
the Central Library.
The Society was represented by Mr Besterman at the Conference
of the Association of Special Libraries at Trinity College, Cambridge,
in September, This proved a valuable opportunity for spreading
accurate information about the Society and its work among special
febiuary 1930 Annual Report of the Council for 1929 23
librarians from all parts of the country and from the Continent and
America. The opinion was expressed by one of the organisers of
this Conference that the Society's Library is the second best
organised and most complete special library in the country.
in June Mr Theodore Besterman who, as Honorary Librarian,
reorganised the Library, was appointed Librarian and Editor. The
Council again wish to extend their thanks to Mr Vinen for the
A^aluable assistance he gave in the Library for about eighteen
months.
The Editorship of the Journal. In June Mrs Salter, who had
edited the Journal since 1916, for the greater part of that time in
an honorary capacity, requested the Council to relieve her of this
work, on the ground that it left her no time for research of any
kind, while at the same time expressing her willingness to continue
to act as Hon. Editor of Proceedings. The Council accepted Mrs
Salter's resignation with regret, and appointed Mr Besterman as
Editor of the Journal.
Articles of Association. Extraordinary General Meetings of the
Society were held on the 31st Jamiary and '20th. February 1929, at
which new Articles of Association recommended by the Council
were adopted. The new Articles have been registered with the
Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, and are now in force. Copies
may be seen at the offices of the Society, and may be obtained by
Members at the price of one shilling.
The President for 1929. Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., was re-
elected President for the year 1929.
Changes in the Council. During the year the Hon. Everard
Feilding, who had been a Member of Council for thirty years,
resigned owing to his inability during the last year or two to attend
Council meetings. His resignation was accepted with great regret,
and the Council expressed their appreciation of the services he had
rendered the Society as a Council Member and in other capacities
during this long period. On his appointment as Librarian and
Editor of the Journal Mr Besterman ceased in the ordinary course
to be a member of Council.
Ohituar)]. The Council regret to record the deaths during the
past year of two Corresponding Members of the Society, namely
Dr Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing and Dr Morton Prince. They
also regret to record the deaths of the following Members and
Associates, all of whom have been attached to the Society for a long
time or have shown an active interest in the Society's work : Mr
Edwyn Barclay, Miss Katharine Barlow, Major W. C. Bond, Mrs
Bowden-Smith. Colonel C. K. Brooke, Mrs Herbert George, Dr H.
'Trevelyan George, Major Edward Lyall. Mrs David R. McConnel,
24 Joiirnal of Society for Psychical Research Febeuauy 1930
Thomas S. Perry, the Hon. Mrs Dighton Pollock, Herbert V. Reade,
Dr F. A. Sibly, General Sir Arthur Sloggett, Mrs Flora Annie Steel.
Memhersliij) of the Society. Fifty-three new Members were elected
during the year, and two Associates became Members. On the
other hand, the Society lost, by death, resignations and other
causes, 59 Members, 2 Corresponding Members and 23 Associates.
The number of Members is at present 618 as against 624 last year ;
the number of Associates is 414 as against 437 last year. The total
membership is therefore 1,032 as against 1,061 last year. It is, of
course, inevitable that the number of Associates should decline so
long as the rule of not electing new Associates is maintained.
Change of Banl- Address. Members and Associates are par-
ticularly asked to note that the Society's Banking Account has
been transferred from the Hanover Square Branch of the West-
minster Bank to the new Tavistock Square Branch. W.C. 1, of the
same Bank, and to make any necessary adjustments in their
Banking Orders.
Publications. Four parts of Proceedings were published during-
the year : Part 110 in May. Part 111 in June, Part 112 in August,
and Part 113 in December.
The total amount realised during the past year by the sales of
Proceedings is £144 2s. 2d. The sales to the general public for the
year July 1928-June 1929 amounted to £60 8s. 5d. in Great Britain
and to £10 8s. 6d. in America. The sales in Great Britain for the
period July-December 1929 amounted to £42 18s. 6d. (owing to the
winding-up of our account with our agents, this extra half-year falls
into the accounts for 1929). All sales will in future be made direct
from the Society's oifice. In each case the amounts shown are
arrived at after deduction of agents' percentages. The office sales,
to Mem^bers, at half-price, amounted to £30 6s. 9d.
Meetings. The following meetings have been held during the year :;
31 January. Annual General Meeting.
,, Extraordinary General Meeting to consider new
Articles of Association.
20 February. Extraordinary General Meeting to confirm new
Articles of Association.
• " An Informal Account of a Four Months' Journey
of Psychical Investigation on the Continent," by
Mr Theodore Besterman.
6 March. " Report on the Investigation of Some Sittings.
with Mrs Vfarren Elliott," by Mr H. F. Saltmarsh.
6 May. General Meeting :
'"
(~)n the Asserted Difficulty of
the Spiritualistic Hy2)othesis from a Scientific
Point of View." by Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
Febrcary 1930 Annual Report of the Council for 1929 25
5 July. " The Dew-Men of Southern Crete/' by Mr E. N.
Bennett, M.P.
6 November. Conversazione :
" An Address on D. D. Home," by
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
17 December. "Some Haunted Houses." by Professor F. J. M.
Stratton, D.S.O.
CASE.
L. 1292. Another Case of Telepathy.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick writes :
The experience described below—probably, I think, an instance
of telepathy—occurred to a niece of mine (not one of those con-
cerned in the case L. 1291 printed in the November Journal, xxv.
157-8). Its weak point evidentially, regarded as a case of telepathy,
is that the quasi-hallucinatory impression was of an expected
event about which the percipient was feeling strongly. On the
other hand, the reasons for thinking its source was supernormal are :
'(1) that it seems to have occurred simultaneously with the actual
event, though about half an hour before the event was expected to
occur ; (2) that so far as we can judge, it corresponded with the
actual event in details which the percipient had no reason for
anticipating.
In a covering letter my niece, Mrs R. Balfour, writes :
" Reddiff,
WhittiiigJiame.
Nov. 8 1929.
" I have been tidying up, and came upon the enclosed paper,
which I believe would interest you to read. I wrote it down very
soon after the event which it relates had occurred, and still remem-
ber it with extraordinary vividness. ... It is one of simply crowds
of instances of an inter-connection between the minds of Ral [her
husband] and myself, which one would call telepathy of a sort ;
only it is an especially detailed instance."
The paper referred to is as follows :
" Friday \Wi May 1927.
" Entry in my engagement book at above date : Porgies no
more. Profoundly sad.
The beloved Porgies was to be put to death, because he hiid
killed lambs. 1 Mr Hume, the vet. was coming on Friday, 13th
1 [The dog of the tale was a big dog, a Great Dane, which lived in the
house as a pet in a very rural district. There would be lambs in spring in most
of the farms near, and" I understand that if a (Jreat Dane takes to killing lambs
it is almost impossible to cure him.
—
E.M.S.'\
1-f
T-H
T-H o O o o o c: c '^1 C- 1- -
a iH 00 o C o r-l
CO o
o
o o
r-l
o to
CO
o CO -+
o
rH
X CO
I- CO ' ' o o j
IC CO o X 1
rH i-H
1 1
CO CO 1
in o t- 1
o
§ fe; a
ft,
r 5
:2 s;
g -s --/j <
.5 I
S ^
5. ^ 3 ?
^ <!
-s .o ^
ft, o
2"
fc^ O 03 t-l
.2 ^
^1
^ ;c i S
s & ^ S -c
~ 5: ^
5-1 ''I (3, o
?, i
(h ^
o <u ?: t-"
^
p.-t^ o ^ X -t^
o 5
C CO 0 IM c
(M 0
0 'X — -t* 0
(M
01 s-r
of.
71 t^cr.
o '-o en's
X o: O
G-l CO
C3 O CI
c o c; c
I
^ ^ ^ I
I
^ o j3
^
I
O t- X o o
c-i CI 01 01 :o
Ci O C.
:o X
o c
X X !
- S 2J 55
~ .X P:,
^ ^
2
^ O rH O O CO
0 >?:) (M o
.III o 00
o
CO
o
: <
o
«2
Si
~
2 -S
Co" -.a
^
goo
•§ ^
<=! £ 5
C3 O
U "
CO .ui
;t cs c: o
1 S S<!
0^ r- ^
S 2
Op,
O
S O 5 1^
D C O C
CO O O
I- -o I- o
^ W O rtJ
C2 O 1-^
•:i T-1 ^
o M
o'
o 2
s
s a
o
CO S
s
(3 Si
so <a
1 -2
MO ^ <j
C ^ §
P s S ^ ^
? ^ 3
^ .
^ ^ t i s ^
O C
i-H O 1-1 O
.-H
CO r-( O Ci O 00
t-l i-H
T"? >."; to o >—' d
oc I- -C 'M c: i-(
~' o o
CI o
CO -t* -n
CO LO CO
CO lO
•A
-i i
~ ^ c;
^ ^ ^ —
•2 c=i o
Si ^ -' £
O
«1
W
m
o
a
o
^ H o
3: St] =0
!^ *^ O O
S t -5 s
s E " S
2 :3
> ~ a
&H Cj
5j . . -
- - -
^ ^ ^
n s 5 s
cr^ ^ 2 ^
c: 00 C 00
5+1
O t~
c c
O O
^ ;i
a. s s:
3^55
=3 O ^
a
5?
IS
s a
S
.=1 O
o
o
<
P2
1^
111
^ ^ s
g -s
''^
i S ^
Sac
;t O •<
2 -
•s o
21
(-1
<
o
3
o
c
o
^14
Oi
'--I
o
o
<^
i
o o o
o o c
'Ji I - o -c
-Jj -r
5^
2.
C5
cq
ci
o
- C
00
J? s
I g'2 «
H - £ ^
£ S O M
:/0
rj o
>
S
o
Q «
r— (1,
.£ 5
E
"
K S
o
m
p
5;
02
m
O
Q
D
o
C3
CO
05
CO
C2
c3
P3
a:
as w
S ° ci
o
Pi
w -tj ^
CO -a
^1 „ o
m
o
o
o
hii rfH i-i ^ -r
O O O o o o
~ o o o o o o
o o o
-r ^
o o o
X i~ o o = o — o
_ _ ... o ~ o — — o ^ -f
oi fM o c: 1^ -T v: r- o
_; W i») ^ ^ -t* -+*
c+( ^ «
o
O
cS
c
3 2
c3 o
C3
c o
O
S 3
ore
5-Q X
f4 o
a
o
o 3 «
J3
Q
5 r—» ^
5 c
re
o 3
O o
3 S5
re
o .
o §
2 a
= O
— ~ T'
— o .V ^
2 =
o
u
-r* 0)
zh
c
[
and
'c
lities.
o
O
cn
\\
w
o
° »
g o
lO o
« CO
o o
o o
s ^
o o
I.-; i>i 'JO lO
-O lO
« tt< « ^
3
s
3
30 Journal of Society for Psychicai Research February i93o
May at 10.30 in the morning to give an injection of Priissic Acid
which he assured us would give instant and painless death. Tom
McDonald the keeper, had dug a grave near Clartyside and promised
to bury him. Ral had arranged to take the vet. and Porgies to the
^^orth Lodge at the time, where the deed was to be done.
" The last few days were grim : we did all the things he liked
best, but he looked so searchingly at us, which made it so much
worse.
" On the morning of the day, we were expecting the vet. to arrive
at Redcliff at 10.30. At 10 minutes to ten o'clock I went into the
nursery, and saw Nannie and Gerald, as was my usual custom. I
was sure that Ral woxdd come and find me there, if he wanted me,
Avhen the vet. came, and if there was any suitable opportunity of
saying goodbye to Porgies when no one was about.
" I stood before the fireplace facing the clock and I had a sense
of dreary fore-boding, which was so strong that as 1 stood there
I began to feel rather strange and giddy. I talked to Nannie about
varioiis things with my back to her ; and then, all at once 1 Imew
that it was happening. I knew that Porgies was dying. I had a
most vivid consciousness of Ral's mind : I seemed to be beside
him or inside him, seeing what he saw : and Porge was looking at
me with eyes full of alarm and distress. I heard a series of short
sharp barks like cries, which died away, and I seemed to go through
an extremity of pain and sorrow, while Porgies's eyes, unreproachful
and still gentle, but fast dying, gazed at me with awful distinctness,
until they receded away, and I saw again the face of the clock
before which I stood, and which pointed to 10.5 a.m. I was amazed
at the control which I still had over myself and my voice, for I
answered something which Nannie had said. When I looked at
her, I saw that her eyes were full of tears, and she suddenly ex-
claimed :
'
Oh, I can't bear Porge going ; he's so lovely.'
" I felt rather faint and went awa}^. I went into the little dining
room, saying to myself :
'
But he carit be dead yet ! The vet. was
not to come till 10.30.' But I could not find Ral anywhere or
Porgies.
" About 25 minutes past ten, he came in, and the moment I saw
him I knew all that he had been through. We went out into the
garden, and then Ral said :
'
It took longer than I thought it
would ; but I don't honestly believe that he felt more than a very
little.'
" He explained that the vet., being unable to come himself, had
sent his assistant, who had arrived at about ten minutes to ten ;
they had then gone along to the North Lodge where everything was
hastily prepared and accomplished.
" I said, '
T thought he would have just died without a sound.
February 1930 Case 31
but I heard many little cries.' And I told Ral all that I had felt
and heard and seen. Ral said, '
I don't think he was in pain, only
alarmed at what was coming over him and trying to get breath.
He also tried to come towards me, but fell down : and though his
eyes were still open gazing at me, I saw life go out of them straight
away.' " So far the nearly contemporary record.
In answer to enquiries Mrs Balfour writes, January 1930 : "I
should like to add that I am not aware of ever having had an
experience resembling this one. I do not know how far it would be
justified in being called an hallucination of the senses, because the
whole impression seemed to me to take place inside me. Although
the face of the clock seemed temporarily to be removed, I do not
believe that the vision I had of Porgies's eyes, which appeared like
in a long perspective, was seen with my ordinary external eyes at
all : and if I had heard the little barks with the sense which one
usually calls hearing, I think I should have wondered whether
Nannie had heard it too. I never wondered that : I always knew
that of course she hadn't heard it. My theory was the moment
after the event had occurred, and is at the present time, that I had
been somehow inside—or in touch with —Ral's mind, seeing what
he saw, and hearing what he heard. That is the sort of feeling which
I tried to express when I said that ' I had a most vivid consciousness
of Ral's mind.'
"I do not think that I can have unconsciously heard the noise
of the vet.'s assistant's arrival : the nursery was a long way from
the back door, and faced into the garden, far away from either front
or back door : and the whole house was full of movement, for the
maids were cleaning away breakfast in the pantry, and making the
beds upstairs.
" Ral could not at first remember, when I asked him. whether
the vet.'s assistant had come to the backyard of Redclifi, or whether
he had come to the North Lodge, and sent Tom McDonald, the
keeper, along to Redcliff to intimate his arrival : but on second
thoughts, Ral says that he believes he must have come straight to
Redcliff ; that the maid came and said he was outside ; that when
he went out to him, he asked for a piece of string which he said
would be necessary in order to tie up Porgies's mouth, which Ral
had to go indoors again to get. There is no doubt that he came in a
motor car.
" Ral believes (though he does not clearly remember anything)
that they all three \_i.e. Ral, the vet, and Porge] then got into the
motor car and went to the North Lodge [about ten minutes' walk
from Redcliff]. It took a few minutes to prepare the injection
needle.
" Porgies was a Great Dane, and was loved by all who knew him.
Jean Balfour."
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febuiahy 1930
Our final document is ]\lr R. A. L. Balfour's confirmation :
My nephew Avrites :
' I have read Jean's description of the incidents that took place
when our dog Porgies was destroyed, and it coincides accurately
with all that I remember.
[January/ m 1930. 1
R. A. L. Balfour
(Ral)."
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
REVIEWS.
Albert Moll. PsycJtologie unci Charalterologie der OH-idtisteii. 8vo,
pp. 130. Stuttgart : F. Enke, 1929. Price M.10.80.
This work of Dr Moll's is a regular indictment of the " occultists,"'
-a term which in Germany seems to be the exact equivalent of the
French " metapsychistes." I do not think it corresponds equally
well to the English psychical researcher," for one may be a
psychical researcher without believing in the operation in this
domain of forces hitherto unrecognised by science. Whilst the
terms " metapsychiste " and " Okkultist " seem to imply the
existence of such a belief.
In this indictment the late Dr von Schrenck-Notzing occupies a
prominent place, a circumstance of some delicacy in view of the
German researcher's regretted death. This circumstance does not,
liowever, prevent Dr Moll from attacking him severely throughout
his book ; in the Preface he says that he has struck out of his work
some peculiarly pungent criticisms, but he adds : "A man who
looked upon carnival farces as science, who wanted to impose upon
the world the carnival mummeries of hvsterical women and other
mediums as transfigurations, teleplasma or products of the sub-
conscious, must be pictured according to truth, even after death."
With which obserA^ation it is difficult for me not to agree sub-
.stantially, though I am not sure that in two or three places the
writer has not transgressed the limits he had set himself in this
respect (e.g. when alluding to the Baroness von Schrenok-Notzing's
big fortune.)
As for the facts Dr Moll brings forward to support his contention,
they seem to me to be of somewhat uneven interest and importance.
A good many are, indeed, of some consequence : such is, for in-
. stance, the circumstance that in his book on materialisation pheno-
mena Dr von Schrenck-Notzing did not say one word as to Eva C.'s
identity with Marthe Beraud, Professor Richet's and his own sitt-
ings with whom had been violently criticised. The fact that he
again and again asserted his belief in their geiiuinencss has nothing
to do with the matter : whether he be right or wrong, a researcher
Febbuaby 1930 Reviews
writing on the same medium several years afterwards was in duty
boimd to mention the previous sittings.
It certainly seems, judging by what Dr Moll says, that our late
Corresponding Member did not always manifest a truly scientific
spirit in the domain of psychical research. This, however, must not
make us forgetful of the services rendered by him in the same
sphere. Those services, so far as hypnotism and its official recogni-
tion in Germany are concerned, Dr Moll freely recognises.
I will content myself now with a few cursory remarks. On p. 8f
Dr Moll blames " occultists " when they speak of their adversaries
as materialists and at the same time attempt to explain telepathy
through brain-waves. I think that his criticism is justified, and
that he is right when he says that such a conception is itself pure
materialism, a materialism which is not in the least supported by
actual facts : for as yet by no artificial process, be it through
" waves " or through electricity, or through some mechanism, has
it been possible to start in the brain a psychical process. To have
recourse to the brain-wave theory to explain telepathy and to use
it at the same time against materialism betrays, Dr Moll says, the
greatest Gedanken losigkeit
.
On p. 88 the writer quotes Herr Erich Becher as saying : Un-
fortunately no sittings [with Willi Schneider] could be arranged
without Baron Schrenck and the occultists who stood near him
being present." Confidence in such and such a person is subjective,
says Dr Moll. And he adds that he has invariably declined to
believe in any experimenter. For one may well imagine a combina-
tion of circumstances when deception on the experimenter's part
might be inspired by lofty motives. Let us suppose that A is con-
vinced of the " occult " faculties of a medium and wants to con-
vince others, possibly to bring them to what he thinks a loftier
Weltanschauung. If in the present instance the medium's powers
fail him. might not the experimenter use a subterfuge to prove his
genuineness ? Of course, such a conclusion if pushed to extremity
will lead us into the dreary land of infinite doubt. Let us therefore
content ourselves with formulating the following canon of evidence :
Belief in the genuineness of a prolonged series of experiments should
be made to depend as little as possible on belief in the bona fides of
one and the same experimenter.
' Among the persons taking part in sittings," says Dr Moll (p.
90), there is a particular group which deserves special distrust :
the medium's friend and protector,"" this with special reference to
Mme Bisson. Whatever be thought with regard to this particular
case. I think we are entitled d ce propos to formulate another canon
of evidence : such protectors or frien.ds should be subjected to as
severe a control as the medium. To refuse admittance to such sus-
34 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research Fkbuiauy lyso
picioiis doublures altogether might be a mistaken procedure, for it
is conceivable, speaking theoretically, that to obtain " phenomena
"
we must have a combination of the hypothetical powers inherent
in both A and B.
On p. 94: Dr Moll says the indignation felt by " occultists " as
well as by " anti-occultists " against swindling mediums is often
quite unjustified. In most cases, he thinks, the medium looks upon
the whole thing as a practical joke, and a fraudulent medium must
be looked upon from an ethical, and in many cases also from a
legal standpoint, in an altogether different light from that in which
we are boimd to view an investigator who deceives. That the latter
is infinitely more to l)e blamed than the former, I quite agree ; but
the interesting point seems to me this : though I personally dislike
very much deception and insincerity I do not remember having
ever felt against a medium Avhom I strongly suspected of fraud the
same indignation which I should have felt against an ordinary
deceiver. Nor is this experience probably unicpie. What is the
explanation ?
When discussing conditions generally prevailing at sittings, the
author says that even starting from the " occult " standpoint one
cannot well imagine why the " phenomena " shoidd develop better
if the sitters converse on some indifferent topic (p. 103). We should
rather have expected just the reverse. I am not sure this argument,
if taken alone, is very cogent. On the other hand, such a condition
•certainly favours fraud, and when it is taken in conjunction with
other supposed conditions (which Dr Moll enumerates) the whole
certainly tends to suggest fraud as origin of the supposed pheno-
mena. One thing is certain : in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred
the conditions which facilitate " phenomena " also facilitate
trickery. This maij be a chance coincidence, but if so it is a singularly
unfortunate one.
Very much to the point is the statement on page 108 that some
' occultists " or " parapsychologists " who pose as something better
than the common spiritualist and who pretend to " enrich science,"
whilst attributing to the spiritualist blind faith only, behave in
concrete cases exactly like the latter. As I am writing this I am
thinking of a " metapsychist who will never call a " spirit " a
" spirit.'' bivt an " entity " : well, the credulity of this very respect-
able gentleman is nevertheless gigantic.
Dr Moll concludes with very severe words about the " occultists
"
to whom he attributes a paranoid mentality. " See who these
researchers are, with Avhat methods they work, how they always
instinctively fear a collapse (Z'usammenbntch), and therefore try to
hold at a distance their adversaries. ..." This comparison with
the paranoid individual occurs in the book more than once, Dr Moll
Fkbuuary 1930 Reviews 35
thinking the similarity very striking. Is he certain that we do not
meet with the same more or less morbid phenomenon in other
domains I I think it is pretty snre to be found whenever we meet
with fanaticism, which I will attempt to define : An excessive
ardour of conviction coupled with intolerance.
Before I finish this review of a small but instructive and interest-
ing book, I will add a consideration which I have not found in Dr
Moll's pages, which may not have fallen into the scope of his work
but which seems to me to deserve attention. It is this : even
supposing all the phenomena which psychical research investigates
to be genuine (which is admitting a good deal, not to say far too
much), these phenomena fall far short of the marvels with which
science confronts us at every step. Admitting that clairvoyance
exists, it reveals to us the contents of closed letters and boxes far
less effectively than the X-rays. There is some evidence for the
reality of thought-transference ; but the most ardent believer in
telepathy will concede that wireless telegraphy and telephony
operate far more successfully. D. D. Home and the Schneider
brothers are asserted to have been occasionally " levitated." but
the performances of our aviators are certainly infinitely more
impressive. Official science presents us with occurrences, everyday
occurrences, taking place under unimpeachable conditions and far
more striking than the alleged supernormal ones. Science gratifies
the instinctive craving for the marvellous inherent in many of us
to an extent undreamed of by miracle-mongers past and present.
Which consideration will perhaps appear to them to deprive alleged
" occult " or " metapsychical " manifestations of a good deal of
their interest.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
William Brown, Science and Personalitij. Foreword by Sir Oliver
Lodge. 8vo, pp. ix. 258. London : Oxford LTniversity Press.
Price 12s. 6d. net.
This volume, the author tells us in his preface, contains the
substance of three lectures delivered at Yale University in March
1928, and repeated in the United Congregational Church at Bridge-
port, Connecticut, on the Dwight H. Terry Foundation. Its general
purpose is stated to be the consideration of religion in the light of
science and philosophy, and it may be regarded as a sequel and
completion of Dr Brown's jjrevious book. Mind and Personality.
The main science chosen for discussion is psychology, but some
consideration is also given to the more general or philosophical
aspects of the physical and biological sciences. Dr Brown is well
Jinown as an expert mathematician, and Sir Oliver Lodge, in his
foreword assiires us that the chapter on the physical sciences is
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Februahy v.m
an admirable summary of the present-day position." Biological
science is dealt with more brietiy—except in so far as psychology
may be regarded as a department of biology. Dr Brown leans
towards the modern doctrine of " emergence," but considers it
irrational unless we also believe in some background that does not
change, something beyond time, the Eternal or the Absolute.
After these preliminary discussions, the main part of the book is
devoted to certain problems of psychology, on the solution of which
our conception of personality depends. The more strictly psycho-
logical part of the work opens M'ith the important paper on " Mental
Unity and Mental Dissociation " which formed Dr Brown's Presi-
dential Address to the Section of Psychology of the British Associa-
tion at the Leeds Meeting in 1927. He here lays stress on his view
" that dissociation is just as normal and necessary as association."
In this chapter he also makes reference to the problem of survival,
and expresses his belief that although the unitary personality
" carries with it, as a physical correlate, a unitary working of the
brain and of other parts of the body, this does not necessarily
involve complete dependence upon the latter for its continued
existence."
Dr Brown's views on psychical research are expounded more
fully towards the end of the book, where he devotes two chapters
to this topic and gives in an appendix a verbatim record of one of
his sittings with Mrs Osborne Leonard. Great openness of mind is
shown by Dr Brown in the matter of possible interpretations of
telepathic and clairvoyant phenomena. Sometimes, indeed, he lays
himself open to a charge of over-credulity when he is considering
the results of his own experiments with shell-shocked soldiers in
France. Yet, curiously enough, in presenting these cases of appar-
ently supernormal phenomena occurring in patients who were
" certainly pathological," Dr Brown is afraid of giving the impression
that he is quoting them against psychical research. This fear is due
to the prevalence of a belief that if it can be shown that a mediiim
suffers from some degree of mental abnormality, " the messages
that they piirport to receive are thereby rendered more doubtful."
There are no grounds whatsoever for such a belief, but Dr Brown
hardly refers to the misunderstandings on which it is based. He is
content with the mild declaration that " if you say that because of
this the results obtained are certain to be mere figments, you will
be going farther than I am able to go."
We are told in the author's preface that the chapters on psychical
research Avere included in this volume " only after much hesitation."
Dr Brown's hesitation may be readily understood, and we con-
gratulate him on his courage in overcoming it ; but the need to
apologise for making use of the data of psychical research in science
February 1930 Reviews 37
or in philosophy is rapidly becoming a thing of the past. " Philo-
sophy without science is empty, science without philosophy is
blind," says Dr Brown ; he might have added that a study of
personality without consideration of the evidence supplied by
psychical research would be, at least, incomplete.
T. W. Mitchell.
Gertrude Ogdsn Tubby, James H. Hyslop-X His Book. A
Cross-Reference Record. Preface by Weston D. Bayley. 8vo,
pp. 424, portrait. The York Printing Co., York, Pa., 1929.
In this book Miss Tubby describes the results obtained at sittings
with a large number of English and American " psychics." At
many of these sittings communications were received purporting to
come from James H. Hyslop, founder of the American S.P.E., with
whom Miss Tubby had been long associated as a fellow-worker.
I ^ The feature of the evidence upon which Miss Tubby lays most
stress is that several of these " psychics " gave her in connection
with a communicator identified as Hyslop the letter X, which she
interprets as Hyslop's " sign." It should be observed that this sign
was not chosen by Hyslop in his lifetime, but was given posthum-
ously at a sitting taken by Miss Tubby with Mrs Chenoweth in
August 1920. Miss Tubby'herself notes (p. 119) that the sign has
" many pertinent significations," is " easily made, often used,
familiar to everyone, apparently trivial, or even an accidental
error." She therefore considers it a fortunate choice, because it
can be so easily given. Those who are sceptically inclined may feel
that this characteristic cuts both ways. But to whatever con-
clusions the evidence may lead, many of Dr Hyslop's friends and
admirers will welcome the opportunity to study these records,
which are quoted in full and carefully annotated.
There are also records of comniimications of the usual type from
other friends and relatives of Miss Tubby's.
H. De G. S.
SHORT NOTICES.
Freiherr a. von Schrenck-Notzing, GesarnmeUc Aufsdlze zur
ParapsycJiologie. 8vo, pp. x. 437, 69 portraits and ill. Stutt-
gart, etc. : Union Deutsche Verlagsgesellschaft, 1929. Price
10 M.
The widow of the late Baron von Schrenck-Notzing has collected
in this volume thirty-live papers which her distinguished husband
contributed to various journals dming the many years which he
devoted to the study of the supernormal. They have been arranged
under four headings : 1. Mental phenomena, 2. Physical pheno-
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1930
mena, 3. Poltergeist phenomena and hauntings, 4. Obituary notices,
and the book conckides with a chronological list of Dr von Schrenck-
Notzing's writings.
The collection should prove of the greatest value to all students
of the subject, since many of the papers have appeared in journals
which are not readily accessible outside Germany, and some are
probably out of print. It forms a fitting memorial to a distinguished
investigator, and shows well not only the breadth of his interests,
but also the skill and industry with which his researches were
carried on. V. J. W.
Alois van Hove, La Doctrine du Miracle chez Saint Thomas et
son accord avec les principes de la recherche scientifique. Svo,
pp. XXXV. 391. Wetteren : J. De Meester et Fils, 1927.
It is impossible to do more here than to draw the attention of
readers to this closely reasoned attempt to bring the Roman
Catholic doctrine of miracles in line with the principles of science.
It is not an attempt likely to gain acceptance outside the circles for
which it is intended, but for those who have a taste for scholastic
philosophy the book should provide valuable intellectual exercise.
Lewes Lavater, Of Ghostes and S'ljirites -walking by Night, 1572.
Edited by J. Dover Wilson and May Yardley. Svo, pp. xlvii.
251. London : Oxford University Press for the Shakespeare
Association, 1929. Price 18s. net.
Though this reprint has been made chiefly for the light thrown
by Lavater's book (of which there has hitherto been only a Latin
edition in the Society's Library) on the ghost scenes in Hamlet, it is
one of considerable interest to what may be called comparative
psychical research. As Gurney showed in his far too little-known
account of witchcraft in Phaatasins of ihc Living, the widespread
occurrence of supernormal phenomena resolves itself on analysis of
such a book as this into stories requoted over and over again, and
very often based on accounts which were never better than second
or third hand.
To the reprint Miss Yardley has added a valuable sm'Vey of the
Catholic position in the ghost controversy of the sixteenth century.
Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
ZcilscJtrifl fiir Faraps'jcJtologie, January 1930.
Professor Chr. Winther of Copenhagen prints the first instalment
of his report on " Experimental Investigations of Telekinesis " with
his medium Anna Rasmussen.
February 1930 Notes on Periodicals 39
Extracts from Signer Bozzano's reports on the Millesimo sittings
are printed. Herr Lambert replies to Signer Bozzano's vehement
attack upon him in connection with his criticisms of these sittings,
after which he refutes some accusations brought against him by
the same Italian gentleman.
Dr Rudolph Lipschitz of Charlottenburg has a very lengthy
paper on a new " Cosmobiological Hypothesis " of his own and its
relation to the problem of materialisation. The paper appears to
me to be of a highly fantastic character.
Dr Bernoulli of Zurich has a short note on " Criticism of Critic-
ism "
; Frl. Gerda Walther tells us very briefly of Rudi Schneider's
recent visit to London ; and Dr Silnner informs us that the recent
poltergeist phenomena in the Regulski family in Charlottenburg
had a judicial sequel. The house-owner considering his interests
damaged, applied to the Charlottenburg Amtsgericht to have the
family expelled. The Court has rejected this application. The
testimony of Pfarrer Hillebrand, a Roman Catholic priest, who
knew the Regulskis well, appears to have been thoroughly favour-
able to their trustworthiness—which is perhaps one of the most
interesting featiires of the whole affair.
Zeifschrift fiir psychische Forschung, August 1929. [This periodical
has now discontinued publication.
—
Ed.]
A further instalment of Dr Mattiesen's paper on cross-correspond-
ences concludes with the expression of the writer's belief that the
" animistic " theory {i.e. that which postulates action of living
minds, with special reference to Mrs Verrall's supposed role in
originating the cross-correspondences) is inadequate as an explana-
tion. Dr Mattiesen was next to have discussed the spirit-hypothesis.
Frau Maria Silbert's phenomena at Graz are the subject of a
paper (first instalment) by Prof. Kasnacich. It is repeatedly
asserted that the touches under the table could not have been pro-
duced by Frau Silbert's feet : a statement the accuracy of which
may well be doubted in view of such observations as Dr W. F.
Prince's and Mr Besterman's. By the way, the writer notes in
passing that to him the " concretely impossible " {real Unmdgliches)
does not exist : he believes in the ''
logically impossible " alone.
Some of my readers may be surprised to hear that I incline to some
extent to adhere to such a position ; I will add, however, that
because such and such a phenomenon is theoretically quite possible,
it does by no means follow that it does exist.
Dr Christoph Schroder discusses " metaplastic phenomena,"
abundantly borrowing from the works of Dr von Schrenck-Notzing
and Dr. G. Geley. The references in Dr Schroder's paper to the
latter observer should be read in connection T\dth what Herr R.
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fkbruary 1930
Lambert says in his article on Baron von Schrenck-Notzing in the
May 1929 number of the Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie : he there
admits that in view of cert.ain suspicious features which the examina-
tion of Dr Geley's diapositives bearing on Eva C. (Marthe Beraud)
has revealed, the testimony of the late French observer must needs
be discounted (p. 251). Of this circumstance Dr Schroder (as was
to be expected) takes no notice.
The last-named gentleman prints an interesting account by an
engineer-in-chief named G., describing mysterious raps occurring
on the eve of the funeral of a lady well known to the writer. These
raps are said to have accurately reproduced the rhythm of a Vienna
waltz indissolubly bound up in Herr G.'s memory with the very
beginning of this friendship. All this may be put down, of course, as
a subjective hallucination (the death was known to Herr G., and
no one else was present), but still is to some extent impressive.
Revue MetapsycJiique, November-December 1929.
This number opens with a very long paper by Dr Osty on
" The Diagnosis of Diseases by Subjects endowed with Paranormal
Knowledge." It being a first instalment, we propose to return to
this important contribution later on.
The same writer discusses the case of Theresa Neumann of
Konnersreuth d jmpos of a French translation recently published
of a book {Konnersreuth d la lumiere de la science medicale et psycho-
logique) by Dr Hynek, a Czech physician. Dr Osty objects to the
strictly Roman Catholic position of this author ; as for the facts
themselves, the fasting in particular, he admits that the explanation
by fraud comes first to the mind. He thinks, however, that to
adhere to it,
" immobilising oneself therefore in indifference
"
would be " behaving like a weak-minded man." The biological
problem in question is of so much importance, he says, that it
would be disastrous " if scientific prejudices, transitory beliefs," did
not utilise this " exceptional " case, " should it be what numerous
witnesses assert it to be."
A short note on Scopochloralose by M. Pascal follows. In the
Chronique by M. Maire much space is devoted to the Valiantine
sittings in Berlin and to the Lambert criticisms of the Millesimo
sittings, and to Signer Bozzano's vehement rejoinder. On behalf
apparently of the Institut Metapsychique, M. Maire suggests that
Valiantine should come and give sittings at the Institut, the only
condition laid down being that a representative of the latter be
present, who will simply " register " {constater) the phenomena
recorded by his senses, without interpreting their nature and their
origin. There will be no control and Mr Bradley is at liberty to
bring his friends. I doubt, however, whether this tantalising ofier
will be accepted. P,-P.-S,
No. 463.—Vol. XXVI. '
March, 1930
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS
Bullock, Captain H. P., 14 Gladstone Place, Leith, Edinbiirgli.
ffiemeiss, Dr C. T. H., 1-4 Gt Tower Street, London, E.G. 3.
Librarian, Sanatana Dharma College, Lahore, India.
Osmaston, D. F., ^Yoodside, Bradfield, Berks.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 267tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday. 19 February 1930, at 3.30 p.m.,
The President in the chair. There were also present : The Et Hon.
G. W. Balfour. Mr W. R. Bousfield. Miss Ina Jephson. Sir Oliver
Lodge, The Hon. :\Irs Alfred Lj^telton, I\lr W. H. Salter, and Mrs
Henry Sidgwick ; also I\Ir Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Ne'o'ton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
FOURTH INTERNATIONAL PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH CONGRESS.
This Congress will be held in Athens on 21-26 April 1930. under the
Presidency of Dr Han? Driesch. Anv Members or Associates wishinsr
to attend the Congress are requested to write without delay to the
Hon. Secretary of the English Committee. Mrs W. H. Salter. 31
Tavistock Square, London W.C.I. , from whom further particulars
may be obtained,
c
Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1930
OBITUARIES.
Dr Morton Prince.
By the death of Dr Morton Prince on 31 August 1929, the Society
for Psychical Research has lost one of its most distinguished Mem-
bers. He was 74 years of age at the time of his death and had been
a Member of the Society for forty years. He was one of the original
Members of the American S.P.R. which was formed in 1884 and
he joined our Society in 1889, when the (first) American S.P.R.
ceased to exist as an independent body. He was elected a Corres-
ponding Member in 1911 and continued as such till his death.
During the first few years of his professional life Dr Prince devoted
himself to diseases of the nose and throat, b\it he soon turned to
neurology and in 1895 was appointed instructor in neurology at
the Harvard Medical School. From 1902 to 1912 he was Professor of
Nervous Diseases at the Tufts College Medical School. In 1910 he
delivered a series of lectures on abnormal psychology at the Univer-
sity of California. In 1906 he founded the Journal of Abnormal
Psychology, to which, in the followiDg years, he contributed many
miportant papers. In this year, also, he published his best known
boolc The Dissociation of a Personality, the record of the famous
Beauchamp Case.
In 1898 Dr Prince contributed .to our Proceedings (xiv. 79-97) a
paper on hysteria and hypnosis, and in the same year his " Experi-
mental Study of Visions " was read at a meeting of the Society and
subsequently commented upon by Mr Myers in Proceedings (xiv.
366-372). At the International Congress of Psychology held in
Paris in August 1900 Dr Prince read a paper on the problem of
multiple personality, which was published in Proceedings (xv.
466-483), under the title of " The Development and Genealogy of
the Misses Beauchamp : a Preliminary Report of a Case of Multiple
Personality." This was the earliest detailed account of the Beau-
champ Case, the full record of which appeared five years later in
The Dissociation of a Personality.
Although as these facts indicate Dr Prince had a life-long interest
in psychical research, we may gather from his writings that he
belonged to the extreme right wing of the society. He was unwilling
to admit the supernormal character of any of the phenomena which
he regarded as genuine, and believed that they could all be explained
in terms of abnormal psychology. He held a theory of the relation
of consciousness to the physiological processes of the body which
compelled him to deny the possibility of survival " of consciousness
as we empirically know it." " Whether there is any other kind of
survival, a survival of some entity of which we have no experience,
a soul as distinct from the mind, that is," he says, "something
March 1930 Obituaries 43
beyond the province of science, something about whicb science can
have no opinion whatever."
Morton Prince was known to his friends as a man of wide attain-
ments and many interests. Broadminded in his attitude towards
the opinions of others, he was nevertheless always keen to defend
his own points of view. More especially on questions connected with
the subject which he had made peculiarly his own—abnormal
psychology—he held strong convictions, but he was always fair and
even generous in his appreciation of the work and opinions of those
who differed from him. It is as a pioneer in the field of abnormal
psychology that he will be longest remembered ;
and although the
methods of investigation employed by him and the conclusions at
which he arrived have been largely superseded by the methods and
interpretations of the analytical schools, students of psychopathology
must, for many years to come, refer to his writings if they would
understand all the possibilities of dissociated mental functioning.
So, also, students of psychical research cannot escape the implica-
tions of his work when they try to appraise the nature of the
phenomena exhibited in trance and cognate states.
T. W. Mitchell.
Dr Abraham Wallace.
We regret to record the death, at an advanced age, of Dr Abraham
Wallace, whose membership of the Society dates back to 1894 and
who was a Member of Council from 1895 to 1901, having been
proposed for co-optation by Mr F. W. H. Myers.
Throughout his membership Dr Wallace took a keen interest in
the Society's work, investigating cases for the Society and co-
operating in research with other Members of Council, e.g. with Mr
Baggally in the investigation of Charles Bailey, the Australian
apport medium.
Dr Wallace was, especially in his later years, a convinced spirit-
ualist, but he always retained a strong sense of the necessity for
exercising critical judgment.
f
A SITTING WITH MME KAHL.
By I. C. Grondahl.
[In response to my request Mr Grondahl, a Member of the Society
who has had much experience with mediums, has written and consented
to the publication of the following account. The reader will find it
useful to compare the phenomena he describes with similar accounts in
Proceedings, xxxviii. 413-433. Ed.]
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1930 ,
j
According to my diary it was on Tuesday, 2nd July 1929, just (
after noon, that Capt. Jolin Martin of 22 Rue St Jacques, Rouen, ,
(my maternal uncle) and I called at her hotel in Paris, to asJi: for an
interview with Mme Kahl-Toukholka. We were fortunate enough ,
to meet her husband, M. Toukholka, in the hall of the hotel, and he
kindly arranged for an interview while we waited a quarter of an
hour's time. When in Mme Kahl's room we sat, Capt. Martin and
I side by side, opposite us the clairvoyante, and at a longer distance,,
behind her and to the side, M. Toukholka.
I must remark that we took no notes during the half hour's
interview, the few experiments being neat and easy to remember.
Also that Mme Kahl produced a pack of cards, but that, being
unacquainted with the uses of playing cards, I paid no attention to
what was said and done in this connection. I limit myself to the
description of the following four experiments, in which we both
observed as carefully as possible.
1 . We were asked to think of the name of a female relation of one
of us, write the initial letter on a piece of paper and fold it well up.
When I had done this (screening the paper well and " composing
"
the initial in sections) and was holding the folded paper in my closed
hand, and Mme Kahl grasping my closed hand with hers,—there
appeared on the inside of her right forearm the figure g (about 2
inches by |- inch) in a thin red line. It faded away in less than a
minute. The letter drawn was S (for Sophie, Capt. Martin's late
mother-in-law).
2. Asked to write my own first name, there came out in the same
way longitudinally above Mme Kahl's right WTist a narrow straight \
red line, a couple of inches long. My initial is I. j
3. Asked to write in the same way the name of a female relative
I wrote that of my only sister. Mme Kahl, after holding for a few
seconds my closed hand with the folded paper inside it, wrote i
" Birgt." I had " drawn " Birgit. |
4. I was asked to write the name of my mother (whom she
'
mistakenly believed to be alive). Mme Kahl took the much folded
paper with a pair of pinchers, burnt it over a match flame and
rubbed the ashes into small fragments. After gazing at the ashes,
she dropped a finger ring into a glass of water and gazed into that.
No result. Mme Kahl declared herself to be " fatiguee," and her
husband explained that it would be no use trying to continue. At
this juncture I divulged the fact that my mother was also Capt.
Martin's sister, whereupon she, taking one of our hands in each of
hers and looking alternately into our eyes, spelt out deliberately
I-n-g-a and repeated the name Inga,—which was the right one.
When in the afternoon I saw Dr Osty at the Institut Meta-
psychique he declared the sitting to have been a good one and
March 1930 A Sitting with Mine Kahl 45
confirmed my diaracterization of the clairvoyante as " une grande
enfant."
In this account I describe only the successes ; the failures were
about twice as many.
r SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE'S RESIGNATION.
For the purpose of record we reprint below certain documents
which have already been circulated to our Members and Associates,
namely : I. A circular from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle dated January
1930 ; II. A reply to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's circular by the
President and the Hon. Secretaries ;
III. A reply by Mr Besterman
to Sir Arthur's circular so far as it concerned Mr Besterman's
review of Modern Psychic Mijsteries.
Although the Council regard this particular controversy as a very
trivial m^atter, it is conceivable that at some future date our members
may wish to know exactly what occurred, and for that purpose we
feel justified in reprinting these three documents.
We are glad to report that very few of our members have adopted
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's advice to resign from the Society. The
total of resignations in which his circular or Mr Besterman's review
is mentioned is two to date (27 February) ;
and the total of all
resignations since his circular is six.
On the other hand, the Council have received several letters
disapproving of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's circular or expressing
confidence in the way in which the Society's afiairs are conducted.
Among the members who have written in this way may be mentioned
:
Mr F. C. Constable, Miss Dallas, Mr Stanley De Brath, General Sir
Reginald Hart, V.C., and Dr Osty, to whom the Council wish to
express their thanks.
I. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Circular.
Dear Sir (or Madam),
I had occasion recently [on the 22nd of January 1930. Ed.\
to send the following letter to the Chairman of the Council of the
S.P.R. :—
Dear Sir, . i. t ?
" I have just read an article in the January number of the Journal,
by Mr Besterman upon the Millesimo sittings. It is, in my judgment,
such a series of misrepresentations and insulting innuendoes that it
tends to lower the good name of the Society. The insolence by which
the considered opinion of a man like Professor Bozzano, who was
present, is set aside and treated with contempt by one who was not
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1930
present, and who has had very little experience of psychical research,
makes one ashamed that such stuff should be issued by an official
of a Society which has any scientific standing.
To appreciate the full absurdity, as well as the gratuitous offen-
siveness of Mr Besterman's alternative theory of fraud, one has to
visualise what it exactly implies. It means that an Italian nobleman
of old family, a member of the legislative body, has invited a circle
of friends to his home in order to practice a succession of complicated
frauds upon them. That he is himself implicated is shown by the
fact that levitation of his own body and other personal phenomena
are among those most clearly recorded. Having assembled his
guests he causes the voices of his own dead relatives and others to
be sounded in the room. A lady confederate conceals under the
short modern skirt a long medieval rapier, a matador's sword, a big
doll and other objects quite unseen by a critical company. She or
some other confederate produces a large balloon-like object which
hovers above the company, and in some unspecified way produces
blasts of ice-cold air. All these and many other wonders are broiight
off so successfully that in a succession of sittings the company,
including Professor Bozzauo, are completely deceived, and the latter
stakes his scientific reputation upon the truth of the phenomena.
This is the picture which Mr Besterman's theory of fraud would
compel us to accept, the whole being done with no conceivable object.
Can we dignify such nonsense as this by the name of Psychical
Kesearch, or is it not the limit of puerile perversity ?
" A further example of prejudice is to be foimd in the allusions on
page f5 of the same Journal to the real psychic researcher, Mr
Dennis Bradley, and to George Valiantine in Berlin. The assertions
of the opponents of Spiritualism are at once accepted on their face
value without the slightest attempt at discriminate examination.
" I have long waited hoping that the Podmore, Dingwall, Bester-
man tradition of obtuse negation at any cost would die away. But
as there is no sign of it, and the obsession seems rather to become
more pronoimced, my only resource is, after thirty-six years of
patience, to resign my own membership and to make some sort of
public protest against the essentially unscientific and biassed work
of a Society which has for a whole generation produced no con-
structive work of any kind, but has confined its energies to the
misrepresentation and hindrance of those who have really worked
at the most important problem ever presented to mankind.
Yours faithfully,
Arthur Conan Doyle."
Those of us who are conscious of the extreme importance of the
movement called " Spiritualism." or even those who are desirous
March 1930 Sir Arthur Concm Doyle's Resignation 47
to see fair play in the matter, must be aware of the way in which
the Society, originally intended to be a sympathetic and fair centre
for inquiry, seems to have become simply an anti-spiritualist
organisation. Everything which tends to prove the truth of that
cult, no matter how honourable or sane the source may be, is assailed
by suppression, misrepresentation and every sort of unreasonable
and vicious opposition.
For a generation, since the death of Myers and the end of the
Piper sittings, the Society has done no constructive work of any
importance, and has employed its energies in hindering and belittling
those who are engaged in real active psychical research. This latest
article of Mr Besterman may be insignificant in itself, but it is a link in
that long chain of prejudice which comes down from Mr Podmore, Mrs
Sedgwick [stc], and Mr Dingwall, to the present day. It is necessary,
as it seems to me, to call a halt, and to make inquiry as to how far
the Society is to be for ever in the hands of this small central body
of reactionaries, or whether they really represent the opinion of the
members. It is not desirable that the Society should lose its inde-
pendence or become a Spiritualistic body, but it is most essential
that it shall not treat what so many regard as a matter of supreme
importance with the irresponsibility and levity which have been
shown hitherto, where it has been the custom again and again for
a commentator to jeer at phenomena which he has not witnessed,
in the face of the most cogent evidence of their having actually
occurred.
I would ask those who would wish to appreciate what I say to
read Mr Besterman's article in the January Journal, and then Pro-
fessor Bozzano's measured and dignified preface to Mrs Hack's
" Modern Psychic Mysteries " (Rider), which treats of these sittings.
This matter is of more importance than would at fijst sight appear,
for I say deliberately that these Millesimo sittings are on the very
highest possible level of psychical research, both from the point of
view of accurate reporting, variety of phenomena, and purity of
mediumship. Therefore, if they can be laughed out of court anything
we can produce will be treated with similar contempt. I can hardly
believe, as I read Mr Besterman's criticism, that he has actually
read the book. It bristles with errors of fact. He complains that
we are not told where the sword was apported from. On page 93
may be read :
" The weapon had been lying on a large table on the
second floor of the palace. In a direct . . . thirty yards." He talks
of the apports as if their extreme length was two feet (in order to
insinuate that they could be concealed by the lady). On page 176
is a picture of a lance 6 feet long, and on page 208 of a plant 4| feet
high—both apports. He complains that he does not know what a
fiexatone is, and yet it is described on page 97. Yet this slovenly
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1930
critic takes advantage of liis official position in order to warn the
reading public of tlie S.P.R. away from this most important book.
I have waited long in the hope of some reform but I have now
concluded that it is not to be expected, and that the influence of
the Society is entirely for evil. I have, therefore, resigned my
membership, and the protest would be more effective if those who
agree with me would see their way to follow my example. It need
not hamper their psychic studies. " In the British College of Psychic
Science, 15, Queen's Gate, W., they will find an Institution where
they can participate themselves in real positive psychical research,
with mediums at hand to be tested, a good library, an excellent
quarterly magazine, and an atmosphere which is progressive and
not stagnant.
I write this under a strong sense of duty, for I am now one of the
oldest members of the S.P.R. I am convinced, however, that they
have long been not a help but a hindrance to the psychical knowledge
of the world, and that a strong protest is called for.
I may add that, having uttered such a protest, I cannot undertake
to enter upon prolonged argument or correspondence, nor can I
attend meetings, as my health hardly permits me to leave the house.
Yours faithfully,
Arthur Conan Doyle,
M.D. (Edin.), LL.D.
January 1930.
I would remind members of the words of that great pioneer Sir
William Barrett: "A scepticism which is too lofty to see' the
existence of a mass of evidence under its very eyes is anything but
healthy. It calls for medical attention."
II. Reply by the President and Hon. Secretaries.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has been a member of our Society for very
many years ;
he is an author many of whose writings have given
great pleasure to all of us ; and he is now, most regrettably, ill On
all three grounds the Officers of the Society would have wished to
avoid entering into controversy with him, but the circular he has
recently addressed to our members, inviting them to follow his
example in resigning from the Society, calls for an early reply.
To Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Spiritualism is, to use his own phrase,
a cult," and it is a natural consequence of this point of view that'
however sincerely he may protest his desire that the Society should
retain its " independence," he should regard as " obtuse negation
"
and " unreasonable and vicious opposition " any criticism of the
phenomena on which those who take the " cult " view of Spiritualism
are content to base their faith.
March 1030 Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Resignation 49
It has been one of the great achievements of the Society that it
has always comprised among its active and loyal members persons
whose views on Spiritualism ranged from complete acceptance to
total denial : this has only been possible because an atmosphere of
toleration combined with frank mutual criticism has been congenial
to most of its members. But it would be too much to expect that
it should be to the liking of all, and from time to time some of our
more dogmatic members, both Spiritualists and Anti-Spiritualists,
have revolted against it. There have been various secessions in the
past, but the Society has never allowed itself to be deflected by
them from the purpose for which it was founded, namely critical
investigation.
It has always been the rule of the Society that the responsibility
for both the facts and the reasonings in papers and articles printed
in Proceedings or the Journal should rest entirely with their authors.
It is therefore easy, in a Society as inclusive as ours, for anyone
seeking to make a case for " obtuse negation " to select a list of
papers having a tendency to deny the supernormality of particular
phenomena. It would be equally easy to make out as impressive
a list of papers published in recent years which were strongly
affirmative of the genuineness of them or of other phenomena.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle says " For a generation, since the death
of Myers and the end of the Piper sittings, the Society has done no
constructive work of any importance." The Piper sittings continued,
of course, for several years after Myers's death, and the principal
report on them was published in 1915, which can hardly be called
a " generation " back. Shortly after that (in 1919) was published
the first of the many papers on Mrs Leonard, all of which can claim
to be as " constructive " as the reports on Mrs Piper, and many of
which are written from a definitely Spiritualistic point of view.
Does Sir Arthur suggest that these are of no importance ?
It would presumably be useless to remind Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
of the fact that in connection with cross-correspondences the
Society has during the alleged dark period developed and patiently
pursued an entirely new line of research ; he has expressed his
personal opinion that the cross-correspondences are not of much
value, but this opinion is not shared by a large number of our mem-
bers, including several who are as convinced Spiritualists as Sir
Arthur himself.
Nor is he probably much interested in the work the Society has
done in elucidating the problems of telepathy, though here again
he would find himself in disagreement with many Spiritualists, who
hold that only on a proper understanding of telepathy can a reason-
able case for survival be founded.
It is apparently by the attitude to physical phenomena of con-
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1930
tributors to Proceedings that the Society is, in Sir Arthur's opinion,
to be judged. Has Sir Arthur forgotten the report (1909) of the
Naples sittings with Eusapia Palladino, reckoned by many investi-
gators the strongest evidence on record for the genuineness of
physical phenomena ? And the Willi Schneider sittings at Tavistock
Square in 1924 ?
If the Society's investigations into physical phenomena have
throughout its history been infrequent, this is due to the high
standard of control conditions on which the Society has always, and
properly, insisted, and to the preference shown by physical mediums
for the much lower standard maintained elsewhere.
On Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's strictures on Mr Besterman's
review of the Millesimo sittings we do not propose to dwell at length,
as Mr Besterman is replying to them separately. It is, however,
to be noted that sittings held in complete darkness, for the most
part without control and without any searching of those present,
sittings at which phenomena were produced which cannot be
paralleled in the records of any sittings held under good control
conditions, are described by Sir Arthur as "on the very highest
possible level of psychical research." Further comment is superfluous.
The theory that since Myers's death the Society, or the Officers
or Council, have developed an Anti-Spiritualistic bias is as lacking
in foundation as the contrary theory (which we have also heard
expressed) that in recent years it and they have become uncritically
Spiritualistic.
(Signed) Lawrence J. Jones, President.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick] „ „
W. H. Salter /
'Secretones.
14 February 1930.
III. Eeply by Mr Besterman.
As Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has made a contribution of mine to
the Journal the ostensible cause of his attack on the Society, I have
been given this opportimity of replying on my own behalf to his
circular so far as it concerns my review of the Millesimo sittings.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is " ashamed " that I set aside the
" considered opinion " of Signor Bozzano, and he considers the
alternative theory of fraud to be absurd and gratuitously offensive.
But even during my acquaintance with the work of the Society
(to the brevity of which Sir Arthur Conan Doyle refers) I have
learned that the S.P.R. is concerned not with opinions but with
facts, and that it is not accustomed to flinch from offering alternative
hypotheses where those first suggested do not appear to be in accord-
ance with the facts. What I wrote was written on the basis of such
facts as are put before us by Signor Bozzano, and was not concerned
March 1930 Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Resignation 51
witli his opinions. If Signor Bozzano or Sir Artkur Conan Doyle
consider my conclusions inaccurate, let them put forward facts, not
opinions, to refute them.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's objections to my statements of fact
are contained in the following two sentences from his letter : "A
lady confederate conceals under the short modern skirt a long
medieval rapier, a matador's sword, a big doll and other objects
quite imseen by a critical company. She or some other confederate
produces a large balloon-like object which hovers above the company,
and in some unspecified way produces blasts of ice-cold air." This
is not the case : I say nothing about a lady confederate ; I say
nothing about a " short " skirt, since Signor Bozzano gives no
information on this point, and Signora Rossi may equally well have
been wearing a " modern " evening gown, which would have been
long ; I do not speak in this connection of " a long medieval rapier,
a matador's sword, a big doll and other objects," but merely of a
doll which I suggest measured at most fifteen inches, and of a short
sword in its scabbard, which I suggest to have been about two feet
long (all these " suggestions " are inevitable, since Signor Bozzano
does not himself give the necessary information). Even so I merely
say that these two objects could have been hidden in a woman's
dress ; I do not say they ivere, and I also specifically refer to the
window of the room about which we are given no information. I
do not refer to a " large balloon-like object which hovers " but to
a small balloon that does not hover. It is hardly correct to say that
the method suggested by me of producing cold currents is " un-
specified," since I devote an entire paragraph to a careful account
of this well-known method. Finally, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle refers
to the " critical company ;
" all the evidence, in fact, points to the
company having been utterly uncritical.
I need say nothing about the third paragraph of Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle's letter, since he has corrected his mistake in a subsequent
communication. The remarks objected to are not by me but by
P.-P.-S., and are in any case merely a quite accurate summary of
an article which was under review. [The third paragraph of Sir
Art-hux Conan Doyle's letter to the Council originally started, " A
further example of this gentleman's prejudice . . .
"]
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's observations as to the Society's policy
it is not in my province to answer. But I may observe that the
" Podmore, Dingwall, Besterman tradition of obtuse negation,"
is a tradition of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's own invention, though
I am proud to be associated in this way with Podmore, for whose
critical methods I have the greatest admiration.
The above lines were written for printing in the Journal as a
reply to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's letter to the Council. In his
52 Journal of Society jor Psychical Research Mahch 1930
circular Sir Arthur Conan Doyle lias added further criticisms of
my review, to which I now reply as briefly as possible. Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle says that I complain " that we are not told where the
sword was apported from," and goes on to quote a passage tending
to show that we are told. This is not the case : two different
swords are in question. Sir Arthur Clonan Doyle says of me, " He
talks of the apports as if their extreme length was two feet ..."
This is not the case : I do not make any such statement. Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle writes of me, " He complains that he does not know
what a flexatone is, and yet it is described on page 97." This is not
the case : what I wrote is that the " flexatone " is not illustrated or
adequately described, and that I have been unable to find any refer-
ence to it in the standard musical and other works of reference.
(Signed) Theodore Besterman.
U February 1930.
REVIEW.
Sir Oliver Lodge, Phantom Walls. 8vo, pp. 2-51. London
:
Hodder and Stoughton, 1929. Price 5s. net.
" It is because a beneficent spiritual world has to me become the
ultimate reality." says Sir Oliver Lodge, "that I have composed
this book." It is a book of a most admirable simplicity and clear-
ness, concerned not so much with evidences, arguments and propa-
ganda, as with musings on the implications of Sir Oliver's spiritual-
istic faith. The material world which seems so solid and substantial,
the " phantom walls " which hem us in, are after all nothing but
twists and abnormalities in the illimitable, all-penetrating " ether,"
in which we are bidden to seek our spiritual home. To effect the
readjustment in our mental outlook which this policy would seem
to involve Sir Oliver Lodge believes that the physicist is peculiarly
fitted : he contrasts him with the anatomist and biologist (p. 42),
who is typified by Sir Arthur Keith. The latter is not driven to
take into his calculations anything beyond the observable material
body which he takes as the producer of mind ; whereas the physicist
has not only to distinguish the physical from the material (p. 94)
and to take account of surrounding fields of force, but within the
last decade or two has made discoveries which have thoroughly
upset nearly all the most fundamental principles and compelled
him to admit that he does not know what such familiar things as
light, matter, and gravitation really are.
All of -w^hich is doubtless both true and important, though I cannot
help thinking that Sir Oliver Lodge is not quite prudent in taking
so seriously the working conceptions of our present day physics :
they have little appearance of finality, and seem likely to undergo
Makch 1930 Review
many further transformations. Moreover, there is yet another
science which Sir Oliver hardly mentions, which stands m more
direct relation to psychic phenomena than any other, and may any
day assume a decisive importance in their estimation. Psychology
is for the most part still trying, with indifierent success, to become
a science of the old mechanistic type, and has not yet hit upon
effective working principles of its own. Still some day this may come
to pass, and then, instead of toying with "behaviourism and
"exact" measurement, psychology may set itself to elaborate
seriously the alternative theory always open to it that the body,
so far from producing mind, is its instrument and product.
Sir Oliver seems to me to be quite right in preferring this alterna-
tive, though it is of course a theory which will have to be very
strenuously tested and confirmed and extended by a vast number
of experiments, applications and interpretations. It will not do,
scientifically, to rest content with a suggestion, say, that ex;to-
plasm " becomes intelligible if the soul is conceived as moulding
the body : the whole physiology of the process will have to be
studied and ascertained. ^
In general it is not possible to " prove " merely the fact ot
human survival and to leave the realm of psychical phenomena an
assemblage of inexplicable oddities : if they are not wholly fraudu-
lent, they must indicate a further order of being the exploration
of which cannot but prove highly instructive, and must transform
also our beliefs about the physical order of which we have so often
supposed ourselves to have attained final and unalterable knowledge.
Moreover, any truly scierdific (that is verifiable and progressive)
knowledge will of course transform, not only our present " science,
but also our "religion" and our "philosophy," to both of which
Sir Oliver seems unduly respectful (ch. 12). Our present " religion
would appear to be composed of unverified and largely discordant
postulates, our present "philosophy" of unverifiable prejudices,
called " a friori truths ;
" and neither the one nor the other can
really claim exemption from the logical demand for verification.
^
As regards details I have found very suggestive Sir Olivers
suggestion (pp. 76 f.) that since " there are grades of existence or
grades of value" there "may be grades of survival." It has
always seemed to me quite fantastic to assume that survival must
be thrust upon all whatever they desire and whatever they do. I
welcome also Sir Oliver Lodge's discussion on pp. 96-100 which
makes pre-existence, as well as survival, a matter of degree. If
spiritualism can induce the human race to think seriously and
intelligently about the " half-beliefs " in a future life it has played
with so long, it will have fully justified itself intellectually.
F. C. S. Schiller.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1930
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches metapsychiques de Belgique, January
1930.
M. Rutot discusses the question of control at sittings. Those
who have the pleasure of knowing the learned President of the
Conseil will not be astonished to find him opposed to " excessive
"
control, and to favour the exclusion of every control of " dilettanti,
sceptics and ignorant people."
Extraordinary facts as to alleged direct voices in New Zealand
(at Musselburgh, near Dunedin) are then narrated, following
accounts printed in a little book called The Blue Room, by Mr Clive
Chapman and G.A.W.
I An article entitled " An Important Sitting for Typtology
"
reproduces at length communications obtained at Woluwe near
Brussels in January 1926, entirely non-evidential ; and M. Adan,
a regular contributor to the Bulletin, describes a " cross-correspond-
ence " obtained simultaneously in Venice and Boston in May 1929
through Valiantine and Margery. Needless to add that it is rather
suspicious.
Etudes, December 1929.
M. Henry de France discusses again the question of the dowsing-
rod, of which he is himself an adept. The dowser's art, he says,
seems to him to be at the cross-roads of the physical and psychical
sciences. The ordinary dowser practises an art which seems to
conform to the known sciences ; this art is not difficult to acquire,
and it can render the greatest services to geologists, farmers, physi-
cians and prospectors. The " seer " of water or ore acts as the ordi-
nary dowser, whilst seeming to be endowed with a very particular
and hitherto seldom observed sense of sight. The intuitive dowser
who questions the dowsing-rod or works on plans and photographs
seems to handle an " intelligent wave " which reminds us of tele-
pathic phenomena. Here we are on the borderland of psychical
research.
Grande Revue, August 1929.
Mr Maurice Wolf has a paper on " Allan Kardec, the Father of
French Spiritism," which is to a certain extent noteworthy by its
sympathetic tone towards Hippolyte Leon Denizard Rivail (Allan
Kardec being RivaiFs name in an alleged former existence). Not-
withstanding the words " pere du spiritisme fran9ais," the writer
seems somewhat inclined to see in Allan Kardec " the incontestable
chief of a new religion, whose adepts scattered through all lands
acknowledged his primacy without discussion ;
" as a matter of fact
Hivail's authority is nil in Anglo-Saxon countries. It is interesting
March 1930 Notes on Periodicals 55
to learn that in 1861 his works were publicly and solemnly burnt in
Barcelona by command of the local Bishop, which fate would
undoubtedly have overtaken " the father of French spiritism
"
himself had he lived two or three centuries before !
Revue des questions scientifiques (Louvain), January 1930.
M. F. Kaisin, professor of geology at the University of Louvain
(Belgium) discusses the " art of discovering sources." In the first
part he deals with orthodox hydrology, with special reference to
the work of Abbe Paramelle printed in Paris in 1859 under the same
title, UArt de decouvrir les sources. Abbe Paramelle, by the way,
energetically disclaimed being a dowser. In the second part the
writer is concerned with the dowsing-rod and pendulum. We are
opportunely reminded that the latter were used in ages gone-by for
the most varied purposes, even including " the Protestants to be
massacred." Professor Kaisin shows himself very sceptical as to
the present dowsers, among whom figure prominently on the con-
tinent several Roman Catholic priests. Of the latter some were
tested at the University of Louvain with quite negative results !
His conclusions are distinctly unfavourable to the " sourcier."
None of the dowsers whose sayings have thus far been examined is in
any degree endowed with such an hypothetical faculty, he maintains.
Still, it may exist in others, though the results of the investigations
hitherto undertaken in this direction are by no means favourable
to the " bacillogyres." Here is Professor Kaisin's conclusion :
" On the day when the dowsers bring incontestable facts tending to
establish the reality of their power, no scientist worthy of the name
will refuse to bow down, following in this a habit which honours
the profession. But judging by the present state of the question,
such a day is not likely to dawn soon."
Zeitschrift fiir ParapsycJiologie, February 1930.
A second instalment of Dr Chr. Winther's report of his experiments
in telekinesis with Frau Rasmussen, with numerous diagrams, is
published. It is followed by the first instalment of Mr F. W.
Warrick's report on his experiments with Mrs A. E. Deane in
supernormal " photography. The report is of a decidedly positive
character.
Then follow three papers by Professor Dr Niederl of New York
(Frau Maria Silbert's son-in-law), Herr D. Walter of Graz, and Dr
Paul Siinner, the Editor, on Frau Silbert's luminous and other
phenomena. Dr Siinner in particular narrates five successive and
successful attempts at " direct " writing (under the table of course)
on and in his cigarette case.
In Kritik und MetJiodik we have Signor Bozzano's reply to Herr
R. Lambert's criticisms of the Millesimo sittings. It should be read
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research makoh1930
in conjunction with Mr Besterman's fully justified comments in the
January Journal.
In Kleine Mitteilungen Herr Alois Konecny of Prague describes
an interesting dream happening to another person but narrated to
him before its fulfihnent, which dream may well have been telepathic.
On reading this account one cannot help regretting that there does
not appear to exist on the whole continent a scientific organisation
apt to apply to the investigation of such occurrences those standards
of evidence which it will be the honour of the S.P.R. to have initiated.
Dr Zenker relates some experiences with clairvoyantes.
Deutsches Volkstum, July 1929.
Herr Felix Krueger discusses " occultism " and science in a very
sceptical tone. A propos of the former he repeatedly speaks of
modern obscurantism." Many of his remarks are quite appro-
priate ; but when I read for instance that neither physicists, nor
chemists, nor experimental psychologists, nor most conjurers, are
competent observers so far as mediumistic sittings are concerned,
I cannot help asking myself, if so, where are we to find such ob-
servers ? Of course, I well know that strictly speaking the latter
nascuntur nonfiuni, that in this respect neither scientific eminence,
nor profession, nor " social position " offer us any guarantee ; but
can the writer suggest any decisive criteria ? He several times
mentions the work of the Leipzig Psychological Institute ; let us
hope that this Institute at least will evolve experimenters adequate
from Herr Krueger's standpoint. P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, December 1929.
Messrs Dudley and Bird conclude their accounts of further
teleplasmic thumbprints obtained by Margery. M. Sudre offers some
remarks on spirit memory. Mr Bird continues his survey of experi-
mental telepathy. His present instalment is chiefly concerned with
the early S.P.R. experiments, of which, on the whole, he apj^roves.
He might have pointed out, however, that the experiments in
question were the very first of their kind, whereas we have now
forty years of experience behind us.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
January 1930.
Dr Hamilton continues his account of teleplasmic phenomena in
Winnipeg. Mrs Mackenzie contributes an account of the medium-
ship of Mrs Mason, a trance medium who sits at the British College.
Mrs Mackenzie also describes a sitting with Mrs Wickland, in Los
Angeles. The same writer further contributes a lecture on thought-
transference. The remaining contents of this number are short
notes on various subjects. Th. B.
No. 464.—Vol. XXVI. '
.
April 1930.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBER.S.
Elected 27 Februar/j 1930.
Birkbeck, Mrs Edward, Elmham House, Norfolk.
Head, Mrs Geoffrey, 24 Charles Street, London, W.l.
Elected 19 Alarch 1930.
Librarian, Cleveland Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 268th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Thursday, 27 February 1930 at 2.45 p.m..
The President in the chair. There were also present : The Rt.
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr E. N. Bennett, Mr W. R. Bousfield, Miss
Ina Jephson, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Dr V. J.
WooUey ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Dr C. D. Broad was co-opted a Member of Council.
The 269th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Thursday, 27th February 1930, immediately after
the Annual General Meeting ; The President in the chair. There
were also present : Mr W. R. Bousfield, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
D
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1930
Dr Walter Franklin Prince was elected President of tiie Society
for the year 1930.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick and Mr W. H. Salter were re-elected Hon.
Secretaries ; Dr V. J. Woolley was re-elected Hon. Researck Officer ;
Mr W. H. Salter, Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor ;
and Messrs Hartleys, Wilkins, Avery and Flew were re-elected
Auditors for the current year.
Committees were elected as follows :
Co7nmittee of Reference and Pullication : The Right Hon. Gerald
W. Balfour, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G. Pidding-
ton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr W. Whately Smith,
and Dr V. J. Woolley.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, and Dr V. J. Woolley.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for
the year 1930.
The 270th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 19 March 1930, at 3 p.m.. Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also present
:
Dr C. D. Broad, Mr G. W. Lambert, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was presented.
One new Member was elected. The name and address are given
above.
Resolved that the following Resolution be entered in the Minute
Book and that a copy of it be sent to Mrs Sidgwick :
The Council has learned with deep regret of the death of the Earl
of Balfour, a Vice-President and former President of the Society,
and wishes to express its sincere sympathy with his family in their
bereavement.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the year
1930-1931 : Dr C. D. Broad, Dr William Brown, Mr J. Arthur Hill,
Professor Julian Huxley, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Mr W.
Whately Smith, and Mr S. G. Soal.
The Monthly Accounts for February 1930 were presented and
taken as read.
It was announced that the President, Dr Walter Franklin Prince,
would be prepared to read his Presidential Address probably in
July.
ApiiiL 1930 Arthur James, Earl of Balfour 59
ARTHUR JAMES, EARL OF BALFOUR.
When in 1892 John Couch Adams, Lowndean Professor of Astro-
nomy in the University of Cambridge, died, Myers wrote of him thus :
" Our Society has lost one of those rare men whose individual
judgment, formed aloof from party and prepossession, can still
carry, without published argument, a serious weight of its own. . . .
Throughout the past ten 5^ears of our work his sympathy never
failed us ; —a sympathy the more valuable inasmuch as he had,
of course, no illusions as to the strength of our advancing column,
or the nearness of our goal. But he was sure that what we are
doing was right to do ; he held unwaveringly that through these
adits lay an unassailable, if a slow, advance into the knowledge
•
of things vmseen."
With but few changes these words may be applied to Lord Balfour,
who was a member and a Vice-President of our Society from its
foundation in 1882 down to the day of his death, and who was its
President in 1893.
Of Professor Adams Myers said that his individual judgement
could " without published argument " carry a serious weight of
its own. Of Lord Balfour, had he always remained silent, the same
might have been said ; but happily, although too fully engaged
in other spheres of work to do more, he was able to make one
contribution to our subject in his Presidential Address ; and this
Address carried, and " can still carry a serious weight of its own ".
Should any of our members, however, be moved to read it again,
or to read it for the first time, the date at which it was delivered
should be borne in mind ; for its line of argument, though it might
not surprise us in 1930, was no ordinary one to put forward in
1894, when thought still lay under the domination of scientific
dogmatism.
Li the obituary notices of Lord Balfour that have recently
appeared little or no notice has been taken of his interest in psychical
research. Nor is this surprising, for so many-sided were his activities
that it can have been no easy task to cover the whole range of
them ;
and, moreover, the depth and persistence of his interest in
our investigations were probably unknown to, and unsuspected
by, most of the biographers. It is, therefore, fitting to place on
record in these pages that psychical research was no passing or
occasional subject of curiosity to him, but one which excited his
keenest interest ; an interest that did not merely remain unchanged,
but which went on growing, so that during the last 17 or 18 years
of his life, there was no topic about which he would more eagerly
seek information from those whom he thought able to supply it.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research ApeilISSo
He was joreventecl by lack of time from making a thorough and
minute study of the evidence published in Proceedings ; but those
who are aware of the quickness of his intellectual grasp may be
interested to know that he was a convinced believer in telepathy
and in survival.
J. G. P.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held
in the Society's Library at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I,
on Thiirsday, 27 February 1930, at 3.30 p.m., The President in
the chair. There were also present : The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour,
Mr Theodore Besterman, Mr W. R. Bousfield, Mrs Brackenbury,
Mr H. Dennis Bradley, Mr G. B. Brown, Miss Carruthers, Lieut-CoL
Maxwell Dick, Mr and Mrs E. J. Dingwall, Mrs Fernald, Miss
Fleming, Mr Herbert Gatliff, Lieut-Col. S. D. Hayward, Miss
Jephson, Mr Jordan-Smith, Miss I. Newton, Mr F. D. Perrott, Mrs
Robertson, Mrs Rothschild, Mr and Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr W. S.
Montgomery Smith, Mr N. H. Vinen, and Dr V. J. Woolley.
The President stated that the Report of the Council and the
Accounts for the year 1929 were printed in the current (February)
number of the Journal and had been circulated to all members of
the Society, and he would invite discussion on them later.
With reference to the Accounts, the Hon. Treasurer (Mr W. H.
Salter) said : Before dealing with the finances of the last year I
propose with jom permission to ask our members to take a general
view of the period covered by the last eight or nine years, which
has been from the point of view of finance quite abnormal. This
period has been one of imusual receipts and unusual expenditure.
It is, I think, now drawing to a close, and it may be useful to take
stock of the Society's position as it was in the years immediately
following the War and as it is now, because the changes which have
taken place in the Society's organisation during that time are con-
siderable, and I think such as to justify the Society in congratulating
itself.
The first and most obvious change is the change of our quarters.
Instead of the small, noisy, inconvenient rooms at Hanover Square,
we find ourselves, mainly thanks to Miss Newton, in a house which
is not only far more spacious and quiet but also more economical.
Next as to the organisation of research : during the War the
Society suffered an irreparable loss in the resignation through ill-
health of the Research Officer, Miss Johnson, and was for a time
left with no organised research department. A great deal of the
Society's work has always been done, and can best be done, by
April 1930 Annual General Meeting of Members 61
individual members working on their own initiative and unofficially ;
so far from belittling work of this kind, I wish that our members
were more enterprising in doing it. But it is also important that the
Society should have on its staff and in regular attendance at the
rooms one or more officials ready, in the hackneyed phrase, " to go
anywhere and do anything ", to attend sittings in the Society's
rooms or elsewhere, and to go promptly to investigate cases of
hauntings, poltergeists, etc. in any part of the country where they
are reported. In this respect the Society is now well equipped, and
it is to be hoped that all members will give members of the Staf?
engaged on research the loyal support and assistance which they
deserve.
Some of our members probably do not realise the amount of work
Ave have done in recent years in investigating Poltergeists and the
like. The results are not often printed in full, partly because on
investigation most of the cases are explicable by normal causes,
and partly because much of the information our investigators
obtain is confidential. All we can do is to print from time to time
abstracts, each of which represents nevertheless a great deal of
careful work ; full records are of course drawn up and preserved
in our archives.
The Society now has an excellent .seance-room for which, and for
the plant connected with it, the Society has chiefly to thank the
generosity of one of its members. Any one who had experience of
the inconvenient conditions under which sittings were held at
Hanover Square will appreciate how much we owe to the donor.
Lastly, on the subject of research, must be mentioned the Myers
Memorial Fund, the income of which the Council is empowered to
apply to assist particular pieces of research work.
Next as to the Library : there was no accommodation for a
proper Library at Hanover Square and soon after we had well
settled down in our new quarters the Society undertook the reor-
ganisation of its Library. It made such good progress with its own
resources under Mr Besterman's supervision that he was able to
get a handsome grant from the Carnegie Trustees. As to the
improvement effected it would be superfluous to say more. Si
vionumentum. requiris, circumspice !
As to the result of the changes indicated above the Society has a
much stronger and more efficient organisation for carrying on its
work than it had at Hanover Square. But the organisation could
not have been built up, nor could it have been used to carry on the
amount of research the Society has done in recent years, solely out
of the ordinary income of the Society. The necessary funds have
been provided partly by donations in response to appeals to the
whole Society, e.g., to cover the costs of the move to Tavistock
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April luao
Square, for research funds, and (more recently) for tlie Library.
But the Society coukl not have gone very far if it had not been for
the gift of the seance-TOom and its equipment, for the grant from
the Carnegie Trustees, and for the generosity of the " anonymous
donor " who for several years provided practically all the funds
needed for research work.
The Society's ordinary income, mainly derived from investments
and subscriptions, is not now, and (as I am informed) never has
been much more than enough to pay for such expenses as rent,
salaries, printing, postage, etc. The surplus available for research
has always been small, and the Society has had to depend mainly
either on members carrying on research at their own expense, or on
donations made specially for research.
As I have already said, the period of abnormal receipts and ex-
penditure is practically at an end : practically, for the Carnegie
Grant has not run its full term. In 1929 the Society exhausted the
balance of the funds specially given for research, and, mainly owing
to an exceptionally heavy printing bill, would so far as our General
Funds are concerned have ended the year with a deficit, had not
our printers kindly consented to this last bill (amounting to nearly
£300) standing over till the New Year, when it was promptly paid.
There is no need to take an alarmist view of our finances : our
ordinary income is sufficient to meet our " ordinary " expenditure.
This, as above stated, never has included a large expenditure on
research. We can out of ordinary income keep the Research
Department going and pay the relatively small expenses of inves-
tigating spontaneous cases reported from time to time, but we cannot
pay for work on the scale, e.g., of the Warren Elliot investigation.
It is for the Society as a whole to consider whether it wishes the
organisation built up to be used to the fullest, to function at its
maximum capacity. I am not proposing to send round the hat at
the moment ; but if the occasion for any large-scale investigation
arises I shall do so without hesitation and in full confidence.
The more immediate necessity is to improve the Society's ordinary
income. The mmiber of our Associates is steadily declining as the
Society has for some years suspended for financial reasons the
election of new ones. The number of Members (618) is considerably
greater than at the end of the War (348), but the number is now
slightly declining. While we must regret the resignations in recent
years, we may congratulate ourselves that only in the rarest instances
is the cause dissatisfaction with the Society's policy in psychical
research : financial stringency affects our members as it does the
Society, and it is, I think, a very remarkable fact that, notwith-
standing this stringency, our membership has kept up as well as
it has done.
April 1930 Annual Generai Meeting of Members 63
Of those who have resigned, on grounds of policy, many have
obviou.sIy not taken the trouble to acquaint themselves with the
work the Society has done, and w'e may confidently hope that their
empty places will be filled by new recruits more suitable to a Society
with scientific aims. "\. .
The President invited discussion.
Mr Dingwall, after congratulating the Council on the good work
done in the Library and in carrying out the experiments in
telepathy and clairvoyance, called attention to the opportunity
given by the Council to members for carrying out investigations
into physical phenomena in the scance-RooB?.. .. He objected to the
condition that the Hon. Research Officer^. , or , a representative
nominated by the Council should be present :^at the sittings ; he
disapproved of a stranger being introduced wi%o could do as he
liked at private sittings. \
Dr Woolley said he supposed that he was the ptei'son most con-
cerned in Mr Dingwall's remarks, since in the ordfiiary course he
would be present at sittings held in the Society's preinises. If for
any reason the members of the circle thought his ^esence not
desirable, it would possibly not be difficult to find sokie equally
suitable person to take his place, but it would not be in the interests
of the Society to allow any small group of members or others to
have the unrestricted use of the room and apparatus, ^t also
seemed essential that some representative of the Council s'koukt*^
be present at the sittings, in order to report on the conditions\nd' f
phenomena of those sittings, partly in order that the Council akd^^^
the Society should share in the knowledge gained and partly as \ -^jj"
check on garbled and exaggerated accounts which might be attri->.^
'
buted to the Society and bring it into disrepute. Mr Dingwall had %^
some experience of the usual practice in scientific laboratories. He
must realise that no one would be allowed to carry on research in
any laboratory on the condition that the person in charge of that
laboratory should not be allowed to be present.
Mr Besterman, Colonel Dick, Mrs Dingwall, Mr Dennis Bradley,
Mr Gatliff, Mr Salter and others took part in the discussion that
followed.
No other points arising out of the Annual Report, the Meeting-
proceeded to the election of Members of Comicil. The Chairman
announced that the six retiring Members offered themselves for re-
election. No other nominations having been received, the following
were declared to be duly elected Members of the Coimcil : The
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr E. N. Bennett, M.P., Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Professor W. McDougall,
and Dr V. J. Woolley.
Mr Dingwall raised a question in connection with the review in
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research AnuL 1930
the January Journal of the report on the Millesimo sittings. He
had not read the book, but Mr Besterman had come to the identical
conclusions as Herr Rudolf Lambert in his criticism of the sittings
and he agreed that the sittings from the scientific point of view were
worthless. He referred to several papers in Proceedings which he
considered fell below the standard set in the review in question,
and was of opinion that the Society was not entitled to print such
papers and at the same time refuse to admit the evidence of other
people.
During the discussion that followed Mrs Salter pointed out that
certain mental phenomena could not be brought under strict
control, and that common sense and judgement had to be used in
estimating the value of these phenomena. The physical phenomena
fell into a totally different category, for they could be brought
under observation.
Mr Gerald Balfour pointed out that the papers in Proceedings
were signed ;
they did not necessarily represent any opinion
deliberately arrived at by the Society or by its Council.
Mr Salter and Mr Besterman also took part in the discussion.
THE MISPLACED TOMBSTONE CASE.
In the Journal for October 1928 (xxiv. 336), there appeared a letter
from Sir Lawrence Jones inviting further particulars (if these could
be obtained) of an apparently veridical dream which had been
related many years ago to his brother, who was then Bishop of
Lewes. It is unnecessary to quote the letter in full, but the im-
portance of the case lay in the fact that the dream was said to have
led to the discovery of a mistake in connection with the erection
of a tombstone.
A somewhat prolonged investigation has resulted in the identifi-
cation of the place and persons concerned, and the following accounts
are based upon interviews with the sister and brother-in-law of
the deceased, Mr Green, over whose grave the tombstone was
supposed to have been erected, and also with Mr Rogers, Vicar of
H., who officiated at the burial.
Fortunately Mr Rogers had kept most of the documents relating
to the case, and wrote the following brief account of the circum-
stances (1 February 1929) : "Mr Smith, the husband of Mr Green's
sister, wrote to me stating that his wife's health was suffering and
being undermined owing to a constant recurring dream, in which
she dreamt that the cross which should have been erected over her
brother's grave, was over that of another person. This communi-
cation reached me about a year after the funeral.
April 1'J30 The Misplaced Tovibstone Case 65
" I interviewed Mr B., the clerlv and sexton, wlio both dug the
grave and officiated as Clerk at the funeral, and who was most
positive that the cross was over the body of Mr Green, and I wrote
to Mr Smith to that effect on Sept. 20th 1906. Later on Mr Smith
wrote to me again, saying that his wife was worse than before and
still had these disturbing recurrent dreams, and always the same,
about the cross being over the wrong grave. He asked for a personal
interview and came down to see me. In this interview, he asked
that the grave should be opened so that the matter could be settled.
The one reason he persistently gave for this request was the state
of his wife's health consequent on the dreams.
" Mr B. met Mr Smith and myself at the vicarage and we ques-
tioned him for a long time on every aspect of the case we could
think of, but he persisted in his firm belief (over and over again
calling our attention to the fact that he had dug the grave and acted
as clerk at his own father-in-law's funeral which was just before that
of Mr Green, and was only two or three grave spaces distant and in
the same line) that the cross was over the grave of Mr Green.
" Then followed the correspondence, which I enclose, from the
Home Office and the Bishop's Registrar, and acting on the suggestion
of the Bishop's Registrar (and approved of by the Bishop) in the
presence of Mr Smith I had the grave opened, and we found that
the dream of Mrs Smith was correct. The Cross having been placed
over Mr Taylor instead of over the brother of Mrs Smith.
" Mr B. re-erected the cross over the body of Mr Green at his own
expense.
" Since this I have had no further correspondence with Mr Smith
on the subject, but for a short time, two or three years perhaps, he
used to send a few shillings for the upkeep of the grave, then he
ceased to send this and my letters to his address were unanswered."
It will be seen from this account that Mr Green was not the
father of Mrs Smith, as stated in the story told to Sir Lawrence
Jones, but was her brother. The statement with regard to his
having made a fortune is also incorrect, Mr Green having only made
sufficient money to retire and live in quite a modest way ; the
" monument " was simply a plain stone cross and curb.
On 20 June 1929, an interview was obtained with Mrs Smith,
who gave the following account of the incidents relating to the
burial of her brother (30 June 1929) : On his return from China,
Mr Green went to live in H. with two friends of Mrs Smith, a Mr
Lewis and his housekeeper, Mrs Elsdon. When he fell ill Mrs Smith
went to H. and helped with the nursing, remaining until he died.
She and her husband, Mr Lewis and Mrs Elsdon, were all present
at the burial. Mr Rogers conducted the service and Mr Lewis acted
as undertaker. She visited the grave once after the burial and then
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1930
left H. A few months afterwards slie went to a firm in Portsmouth
and chose a cross for the grave. When she received the bill she went
to H. to make sure that the stone was the one chosen. Directly
she saw it she felt certain that it had been placed over the wrong
grave and later, when she visited the friend at whose house Mr
Green had died, they told her they also had seen it and were of the
same opinion but had not liked to worry her by writing about it.
She interviewed Mr Rogers and the sexton and both denied that any
mistake had been made. As Mrs Smith and her friends (one of whom
had acted as undertaker) were certain that the stone was over the
wrong grave, she left the matter in her husband's hands with the
result that permission to open the grave was obtained. As we
already know, a mistake was discovered and rectified.
With regard to the alleged dream, Mrs Smith could not give any
explanation as to how the story arose, she had never had any
dreams about her brother after his death, and had no recollection
of ever having had any dreams of any kind.
Owing to the fact that Mr and Mrs Smith had separated shortly
after the death of her brother, and were living in different parts of
the country, it was some time before Mr Smith could be traced.
He had not been in communication with his wife for some years.
When an interview was finally obtained he was not told of the
previous one with his wife, so that each statement is a completely
independent account of the incident.
Although Mr Green's death took place in 1905, Mr Smith appeared
to have a clear recollection of the details relating to the burial and
gave the following account (23 September 1929) : During Mr
Green fi residence in the East he and Mr Smith had corresponded
with one another from time to time. Owing to failing health, Mr
Green wrote to Mr Smith of his intention to return home and retire.
About the time he was due to arrive Mr Smith had a dream in which
he saw Mr Green in a pool of water ; he seemed to be calling for help.
Knowing that his wife was very deeply attached to her brother,
Mr Smith did not mention the dream to her, fearing it might alarm
her.
The first intimation Mr Smith had of Mr Green having landed
was through the authorities of a mental hospital, and it was to the
effect that they had a patient there who appeared to have lost his
memory. He kept repeating " find Smith ". Mr Smith followed the
matter up, took charge of his brother-in-law and arranged for him
to go to the house of the friends at H. (already mentioned) where
he was nursed until he died.
Mrs Smith, who had assisted with the nursing had remained in
H. until after the burial. Mr Rogers officiated at the funeral, and
Mr and Mrs Smith, and the friends at whose house Mr Green died.
April 1930 The Misplaced Tombstone Case 67
were all present at the grave side. After the burial Mr and Mrs
Smith left H., and returned to their own home some distance away.
Some months later a tombstone was ordered from a firm in Ports-
mouth. (According to the records the death took place in August
1905 and the tombstone was erected in 1906).
Later, when Mr Smith was going through some unpaid accoimts
he came across the bill for the stone. As he looked at it, he received
the impression that his brother-in-law was staring at him and trying
to tell him something. That night he dreamt that the stone had
been placed over the wrong grave. The impression was so strong
and the dream so vivid that he felt sure something must be wrong.
Without telling her of his dream, he suggested to Mrs Smith that they
should go to H. the next day in order to make sure that the stone
was correctly placed, before paying the account.
Immediately they saw the stone they realised that it had been
placed over the wrong grave. Some friends in the village, who had
l3een present at the funeral, confirmed this conviction and subse-
quently Mr Rogers was interviewed. (It is to be noted that Mr
Rogers states that he was interviewed by Mr Smith ; he has no
recollection that Mrs Smith was present at the interview). Both
Mr Rogers and the sexton maintained that such a mistake was
impossible.
Mr and Mrs Smith returned home, and that night, and for many
nights after, Mr Smith had the same dream. On several occasions
he wrote to Mr Rogers asking that the grave might be opened but
the request was refused partly on account of the disturbance such
a proceeding would cause, and partly owing to the assertion of the
sexton that no such mistake could have been made.
Although the dreams persisted, Mr Smith did not like to tell his
wife about them, fearing that it might upset her. Finally, being
determined to have the grave opened, he went to Mr Rogers and
related the dreams but attributed them to his wife and said he was
afraid her health would be affected imless something was done to
set her mind at rest. After considerable correspondence, permission
was obtained from the authorities through Mr Rogers, and the grave
was opened. It was found that a mistake actually had been made ;
the cross had been placed over the adjoining grave where a burial
had taken place (in the early part of August 1905). Mr Smith did
not mention his dreams to anyone, other than Mr Rogers, fearing
that people would consider him unbalanced, and for this reason
also, in all his written communications with Mr Rogers and the Home
Office, etc. regarding permission to open the grave, he purposely
omitted any mention of the dreams.
As will be seen from Mr Roger's account, the sexton removed and
re-erected the cross over Mr Green's grave at his own expense. In
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1930
view of the time which has elapsed since the incidents here recorded
actually happened, there are, as might be expected, discrepancies
Vjetween the statements of the various persons concerned ; there is
however, corroboration with regard to the following particulars :
The date of Mr Green s death (19 August 1905) ; date and place of
burial (taken from records and tombstone) ; names of those attending
funeral (corroborated by all parties) ; date of erection of tombstone ;
mistake in erection of tombstone ; and subsequent rectification
(corroborated by all parties).
On the other hand, no corroboration can be obtained with regard
to the dreams owing to the fact that, with the exception of his
statement to Mr Rogers, Mr Smith did not mention them to anyone
either in the family or outside. We have therefore the fact that a
mistake had been made which was rectified, but, as to whether Mr
Smith was prompted to move in the matter simply from the evidence
of his own eyes and Mrs Smith's impression when they visited the
grave, or whether his action was the result of his own alleged
impression and dream, it is impossible to say. All that can be done
is to give the facts as revealed by the people concerned, making
allowance for discrepancies due to lapse of time, and leave those
who read them to draw their own conclusions.
E. Brackenbury.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Spirit-Hypothesis.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I quite agree with Dr Schiller that the ideas connoted by
such terms as telepathy, clairvoyance, subliminal are at present
extremely vague and ill-defined. But it is precisely with a view to
clarifying our fundamental conceptions that I would advocate that
the general supervision of the sittings of our few really good mental
mediums should be in the hands of a trained psychologist. It
might not matter whether such a man were a behaviourist or a
psychoanalist so long as he were adequately trained in the methods
of psychological enquiry and had a good standing acquaintance with
the psychology of abnormal mental states. For there are many
questions bearing on the connection of supernormal knowledge with
the medium's previous mental history that I believe a competent
psychologist would be better able to elucidate than an intelligent
layman, whether spiritualist or non-spiritualist.
One cannot of course entirely rule out the intervention of dis-
carnate himian beings as a possible hypothesis, but I do not think
that there is the least danger that the spirit-hypothesis will be
April 1930 Correspondence
neglected. Its religious and emotional significance secure for it a
paramount and (from a scientific point of view) disproportionate
amount of attention. Indeed, at present the best sensitives are
almost entirely in the hands of convinced spiritualists. Among
these are intelligent observers, who seldom, however, experiment,
or do so only along stereotyped lines. There is therefore real
danger that in this general contempt for the services of the trained
psychologist we are losing golden opportunities of research.
Yours, etc.
S. G. SOAL.
A Suggested Experiment in Telepathy.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —In Mrs Sidgwick's invaluable sequel to Phantasms of the
Living {Proceedings, xxxiii) experimental cases are given (M. CI. 97,
and a case from Journal, viii. 71) in which an Agent (A) thinks of
a .subject (S), a living person unknown to the Percipient (P). P
looks in the crystal and has a vision of S not in the dress and cir-
cumstances expected by A but as S was at the time of the sitting.
What part do A, P, and S play in these amazing experiments ?
(1) Must S be a living human being ? (2) Could A be replaced by an
object (say a letter) associated with S ?
Experiments should be tried :
(1) in which A thinks of (a) an animal (dog, cat, horse), (b) an
inanimate object (book, chair, car), (c) a deceased person known to
him in each case :
(2) in which P draws a closed envelope from among a number
containing letters written by various persons. P alone of course
would know the one chosen, upon which S would depend.
In (1) (a) might prove interesting ; also (b) in the case of a
cherished object whose whereabouts at the time was not known.
But it would probably be trying P " rather high ". As regards (c)
the possible results are best imagined !
In both (16) and (2) some light would possibly be thrown on
the operations of psychometry : in {la) on the function of the
living mind in the matter.
The function of S as an agent in such experiments might be
tested in an interesting manner were two agents to sit independently
each with a scryer and both think of the same friend in the same
way (dress etc.) at the same time. Other experiments on lines
outlined above suggest themselves also. In these the function of
P would also be tested.
Yours, etc.
Ernest S. Thomas.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1930
Thk Alleged Exposure or Valiantine.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In the January issue of tlie Journal of the S.P.R. in review-
ing the Zeitschrift fi'tr Parapsychologie of December 1929, in which
Dr Kroner's account of the Valiantine sittings in Berlin appears,
P.-P.-S. writes : "To me the most instructive part of the whole
episode is . . . the part played by his [Valiantine's] admirers and
friends such as Mr Bradley, the latter going in his attempts to
prevent an exposure so far as to threaten the hostess with an
appeal to the Embassy of the United States to interfere in the
interests of an American citizen's health."
This statement of Dr Kroner's is absolutely false. The facts
are as follows. Immediately before my departure from Berlin
—
leaving Valiantine to continue the series of sittings at the house of
Frau von Dirksen—owing to the attitude of several of the sitters
at the preceding seances at which I had been present, I warned
Frau von Dirksen of the danger to the health of the medium if a
light were turned on suddenly during a sitting. I made no mention
whatever of the American Embassy : I said that in such an event
the English Embassy in Berlin would be informed.
P.-P.-S. refers to Mrs Bradley's letter to Frau von Dirksen
printed in Dr Kroner's paper. This letter was a short personal one
and was never intended as a detailed report for publication. Her
remarks are made upon the Genoa and not the Berlin seances and her
brief references to the controlled sittings are absolutely correct.
In both of these controlled sittings all the seals were found to
be completely intact after the seance, as also was the Leukoplast
sticking plaster which reached from ear to ear and hermetically
closed the mouth of the medium. At the sitting referred to by Mrs
Hack, when Mr Boucers of Luce e Ombra was present, but at which
Professor Ernesto Bozzano was not present, again all the seals and
the Leukoplast across the mouth were discovered to be intact when
the lights were turned on. Immediately prior to the end of the
seance, after considerable mental and physical phenomena, by
request part of the bindings were supernormally severed, but in
such a manner as to render it impossible for the medium to move
from his chair and impossible for him to speak until the intact
adhesive plaster was carefully removed from his mouth.
P.-P.-S. refers to " Dr Kroner's detailed account of George
Valiantine's exposure in Berlin." He omits, however, even to
intimate what this " exposure " consists of. There has been NO
exposure of Valiantine. Dr Kroner's paper consists merely of a
mass of sheer assumptions, based upon ignorant and prejudiced
scepticism, and the only specific allegations made are individual
April 1930 Correspondence 71
and uncorroborated. These allegations were carelessly made by
inefficient and inexperienced sitters and can definitely be proved
to be untrue.
Dr Kroner's assumptions have been refuted and severely criticised
by many scientific researchers in Germany. My analysis and reply
to Dr Kroner is now being translated by Professor Gustave Zeller
and will be published in Germany in March next.
Yours, etc.
H. Dennis Bradley.
[While we print this letter to enable members to read both sides
of the alleged Valiantine exposure in Berlin, we must make it
clear that the passage by P.-P.-S. objected to was merely a summary
of an article under review. Strictly, obj ections to it should have been
addressed to the periodical in which the article appeared.
—
Ed.'\
REVIEW.
Two Old Cases Reviewed (C. B. Sanders and Mollie Fancher), 8vo,
pp. 105, 2 portraits. Boston Society for Psychic Research
(Bulletin XI), December 1929. Price $1.00.
The name of the author of this pamphlet is not given. It is
probably omitted by mere inadvertence, for it is clear from internal
evidence that the author is the Research Ofiicer of the Boston
Society, Dr Walter Franklin Prince himself, who has just been
elected President of the S.P.R. for this year. This is revealed by
{e.g.) the close connection of the writer with the Doris case shown
on pp. 100-103. The two cases with which the Bulletin in the main
deals are as stated old cases. They are cases of divided personality
belonging to the second half of the last century, almost before
the medical profession or psychologists had begim to take a serious
interest in this very important subject.^ It is from this cause that
neither of the cases are as well recorded as we could wish—it having
been left to friends to do their best without scientific training or
assistance, or knowledge of other cases. The little book containing
an account by his friends of the experiences of the Rev. C. B.
Sanders is not only out of print but very difficult to obtain, and our
Librarian has not yet been able to obtain a copy for our library.
Both cases are, however, known to our Society. Myers in his Human
Personality discusses both more or less and there is a review, in
our Proceedings, vol. xiv, of the Mollie Fancher case by Professor
Romaine Newbold.
••
There is a useful list of recorded cases of divided personality in a footnote
on -p. 9.5. The earliest mentioned is dated 184.5 and the next lS6i).
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1930
Why then, it may be asked, does Dr Walter Prince spend so
much time and trouble now on reviewing these two somewhat
inadequately reported cases of divided personality ? He makes the
reason fairly clear in his preface (pp. 14 and 15). Among recorded
cases of the kind they are the two in which there is most evidence
of the manifestation of supernormal mental faculties by one or more
of the split up personalities. Both the Rev. C. B. Sanders and
Miss Mollie Fancher showed at times when in an abnormal state
telepathic and clairvoyant powers—meaning by clairvoyance the
power of perceiving objects and occurrences in the material world
without the use of the senses.
Now clairvoyance is at present one of the subjects which it is
most important for the S.P.R. to study. Good evidence for its
reality is rare, and there are probably very few of us who believe
it exists compared with the number prepared to believe in telepathy.
Evidence for clairvoyance, however, seems to be slowly accumulating
—in book tests for instance—and it may be that in some cases of
apparent telepathy, the supernormal knowledge, or some of it,
shown by the percipient is directly acquired without the intervention
of another human mind. At any rate the whole subject needs
careful study and further collection of evidence.
From this point of view the " two old cases " of this Bulletin are
important ; as indeed is " A Case of Psychometry " described by
Dr Prince in his preface (p. 10). Dr Prince has analysed the evidence
obtainable about them with great care as to its reliability and its
reasonable interpretation. He also compares it with what there
is of similar evidence in other cases. The result is a fuller knowledge
of the two cases than can be obtained except from the originally
printed accounts themselves, and of these the most important,
that describing the case of the Rev. C. B. Sanders, is very difficult
to obtain.^ We may therefore thank Dr Prince and the Boston
Society for a valuable and useful piece of work.
E. M. S.
^ As I have already stated above our Librarian has so far failed to obtain
a copy of this little book. If any of our Members know of a copy and can
put him on the track of it he will be very grateful. The book is called
X + Y = Z or the Sleeping Preacher of North Alabama containing an account of
most ivoncJerful mental phenomena, fully authenticated by living witnesses. By
Rev. G. W. Mitchell. Printed for the author in 1876 [at New York]. 16mo.
pp. 202.
No. 465.—Vol. XXVI. May 1030
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Prn ate Meetino- of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
THURSBJT, 5 June igjo, at 5 fjn.,
WHEN A REPORT ON
" The Recent Congress at Athens
"
WILL BE GIVEN BY
Mr W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Aleetifig. Membej s
and Associates zvi/i be ad/nitted on signing tiieir names at tJie door.
Tea will be served at 4 p.m., for which a charge of ij- zvill be ?nade.
Will those members who wish to bepresent kindly inform the Secretary
beforehand.
E
7-i Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1930
NOTE ON THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MRS MASON.
By S. R. W. Wilson.
The following brief note on a series of sittings held diiring the past
year with Mrs Mason may be of interest. The sittings were held
anonymously at the rooms of the London Spiritualist Alliance, Ltd.,
and were taken by two sitters, who attended first separately as
unconnected people, and later together. No striking evidence of
survival was obtained, but certain statements were made by the
Control which appeared to the sitters to be undoubtedly super-
normal.
One of the chief characteristics observed was the almost complete
absence of volunteered information (which if given at all was given
in the first few minutes of the sittings), the phenomena taking the
form of replies to questions asked by the sitter. The Control always
showed eagerness for these questions to be asked, saying they helped
the communicator. The first reply to a test question would nearly
always be hurried, incorrect and pretty obviously a guess on the
part of the Control, and the statement having been promptly turned
down by the sitter, a paiise would ensue, often followed by correct
information. A typical instance of this took place when the name
of the country with which the commimicator had business connec-
tions was desired :
Sitter. Can he tell me the name of this country ?
Control. America or Australia conditions.
Sitter. No.
Control (after pause). It's a hot country. Does it begin with S ?
Sitter. Yes.
Control. Is there an A.I.N, or U ?
Sitter. Yes, an N ; not a U.
Control. Is there an 0 ? I get I, then S.E. Doesn't the I follow
S ? I seem to get P. S.P.I. Haven't I given you A ?
S.P.A.I.N.
Having spelt the word Spain, which was correct, the Control seemed
xmable to pronounce it.
Names often appear to be received by this medimu in the same
way, that is, letter by letter, wrongly arranged. Sometimes the
task of arranging the letters correctly would prove too much for the
Control and the word would have to be left. At other times, as was
the case with the " Spain " incident, the Control would apparently
be unable to pronounce the completed word.
Mat 1930 Note on the Mediumship of Mrs Mason 75
Anotlier metliod of receiving names was instanced when the
Christian name of the sitter (Rosemary) was indicated by a flower
being " held up " by the commmiicator. Two apparent interpre-
tations or gnesses on the part of the Control followed, namely, Violet
and Daisy, and the subject was then dropped. Shortly afterwards,
in the same sitting, however, the Control turned to it as follows :
Control. He puts a large rose on your lap, in connection with
your name. A red rose. Do you follow that ?
Sitter. Yes, it means something to me.
Control. And there is the name Mary called. Rose Mary. I do
not understand what it means.
In nearly every other sitting, the communicator, when he was
first announced as being present, was said to bring a rose or roses,
evidently being strongly associated in the medium's mind with this
flower. It may be of course that the rose is in the nature of a cliche
with Mrs Mason, and information on this point from others who have
had experience with the medium would be much appreciated by the
writer. In one case, the rose certainly seemed to serve as a means of
identification, as when the second sitter went alone, in circum-
stances which do not give reason to suppose that any normal
association with the first sitter arose in the medium's mind. The
following statements were made :
Control. He has a daughter on the earth plane ... he shows me
a rose [excitement and recognition by the Control].
He's got a daughter Rosemary on the earth plane.
Another method of receiving names was instanced when the
desired name was " Crosbj^" An attempt was made to give it by
means of the sound, thus :
Control. The name of that man ... 0. Is it Oswell Cosgrave ?
Having given isolated pieces of supernormal information the
Control would often attempt to enlarge on them or interpret them,
with disastrous results. Thus, when a correct statement was made
that the brother of the sitter had to do with horses, the Control
followed this up by assuming erroneously that they were race-horses,
and purported to see a particular brown and white horse running
very fast.
Unfortunately great persistence was shown by the Control in
fishing, so that a good deal had to be discoimted. From the point of
view of appropriate selection of evidence, the sittings were dis-
appointing, as the sitters had to ask many questions, thus giving
the statements to a great extent the appearance of telepathy from
their own minds. The sitters were, however, convinced that Mrs
Mason has some supernormal faculty, though the limitations of her
mediumship were very plain in this series of sittings.
76 Journal of Society' for Psychical Research May 1930
A SUBMERGED MEMORY REVIVED IN A DREAM.
Some thirty-five years ago I was given a clog, a large white and tan
spaniel wlio was eventually killed on a railway line. A few weeks
ago something recalled the dog to my memory, but I coukl not
recover his name.
On 5 February 1930 I had a short nap in my armchair and
dreamed that this dog came into the room, came up to me and put
his head on my knee. I called out, " Why, it's RoUo ! How are
you, Rollo, old man ?
" I then woke up and realized that the name
really was Rollo. Sir Harry »Stephen, who gave me the dog, corro-
borates this name.
Lawrence J. Jones.
CORRESrONDENCE.
A Correction.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—My attention has been called to an article in The Inter-
national Psychic Gazette, dated May 1930, on " The Late Lord
Balfour as Psychical Researcher." It consists in part of a letter
from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle quoted from The Times of 29 March
1930, and in part of a not very correct quotation from Mr Andrew
Lang's Introduction to a book on Crystal Gazing by Mr N. W.
Thomas. This last is quoted with a view to supporting Sir Arthur's
statement concerning Lord Balfour's activities in psychical research,
and runs as follows :
" I lent the (crystal) ball to Miss Balfour, who often then saw, I
think, an old-fashioned piece of furniture (in it).
" Her brother (Mr Arthur Balfour) laughed at her and took the
ball into his study, when he returned, looking perplexed. He
admitted that he had seen (in it) a person whom he knew, under a
lamp.
" This was about 5 p.m. on a Simday at St Andrews." The
account goes on to give details of the vision and its verification. •
On reading this I was surprised, for my brother Lord Balfom- was
extremely interested in " psychical " phenomena, and it was
impossible to suppose that he had had so interesting a " psychical
"
experience as a crystal-vision (and that a veridical one) without
mentioning it to his family, to whom he often did mention his regret
that he never had " psychical " experiences. I therefore looked up
the passage in Mr Thomas's book (Introduction, p. xii.) and then
found that what is there said is : "I lent the ball to a Miss Balfour,
May 1930 Correspondence 77
who only then saw, I think, an old-fashioned piece of furniture.
Her brother laughed at her and took the ball into the stu.dy. ..."
It will be noticed that the word " a " before " Miss Balfour " is
omitted in the article under discussion ; that the word " often " is
substituted for " only " ; that the phrase " (Mr Arthur Balfour)
in brackets after " brother " does not occur in the original ;
and
that his study " is substituted for " the study " in the article.
No Christian names or .other identifying marks are given, and after
all Balfoiu- is a fairly common name in the Lowlands of Scotland.
Other statements show, or tend to show, that the Balfour alluded
to was not Lord Balfour. In particular a little further down the
page both in the book and as quoted in the International Psychic
Gazette, Mr Lang says " afterwards in my study Mr Balfour, who was
smoking ..." Lord Balfour was at no time of his life a smoker and
only on the rarest occasions smoked a cigarette. Further, I have
shown the article to my sister Miss Alice Balfour who, as is well
known, kept house for Lord Balfour for over 50 years. She has no
recollection whatever of the occurrence in which a Miss Balfoi;r is
stated to have played so prominent a part ; she never herself saw a
vision in a crystal ; and she fully agrees with me that if Lord Balfour
had an experience of the kind described, he would have communi-
cated the fact to his family.
I may add that the same experience is described by Mr Andrew
Lang in his book on Dreams and Ghosts, but with other names for
the seer and the person seen. Presumably then in both books the
names given are pseudonjTXLS.
We must therefore regretfully conclude that the person referred
to in book and article was not Lord Balfour, and as it is important
in all matters connected with psychical research that incorrect
traditions should not be allowed to grow up so far as this can be
prevented, I venture to trouble you with this letter.
Yours, etc.,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
D. D. Home.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—It is a sad pity that Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
should have let 55 and 72 years elapse since D. D. Home's seances
at Biarritz, and 43 years since his death, to attack his credibility as
a medium. An accusation of so flagrant a deception should have
been made at the earliest possible moment, and before all the
witnesses had been removed beyond our questions by death, especially
as (p. 251) the Empress's evidence is reported as contradictory.
78 Jotirnai of Society for Psychical Research May idso
The evidence of " professor " Dicksomi, a conjurer, wlio, as Count
Perovsky remarks, is not " absolutely impartial "
(p. 257), seeing
that he himself speaks of his " campagne acharnee "
(p. 264) against
spiritualism, is entirely second-hand or third-hand, may be dis-
regarded altogether. It was a mistake to allude to it at all. Accusa-
tions should be as carefully criticised as affirmations. One would
like to ask for a plan of the room at Biarritz, and Iioav in the light a
door behind the medium could have been opened without drawing
the attention of all the sitters to the fact. If the seance was in the
dark, it is obvioiis that nothing could have been " seen " by Count
Fleury.
Dr Cyon says that the seance was held at Compiegne (whick
Count Perovsky thinks a negligible slip of memory) and his evidence
is also a mere repetition of Count Fleury who re-entered the lighted
room and saw Home entr'ouvrir la semelle de sa bottine droite
"
or " oter un de ses souliers " (both are alleged), place his foot on the^
cold marble floor and then " with extraordinary agility " touch the
hand of the Empress seated on his left, causing, her to exclaim,
" The hand of a dead child has touched me," an extraordinary remark
in any case !
The whole reads like an artless fabrication, and one can only
wonder that the Empress should have been so easily deceived. I
have myself attended many of these wearisome seances and shoidd
consider " pulling a dress, ringing a bell, and feeling about under a
table " absolutely unevidential, as would all the reliable experi-
menters I have known.
Count Perovsky quotes from Mr Podmore, who died in 1910, the
words concerning Home " that bulwark and alpha and omega of
jjhysical phenomena with whom modern spiritualism must stand
or fall " as if these words, whenever they may have been written,,
were final.
But sm'ely, if physical phenomena be what is meant, such words
are meaningless after the careful laboratory experiments of Dr
Geley, Dr von Schrenck-Notzing, Dr Glen Hamilton, and Dr Crandon,.
to name only a very few of the later observers. D. D. Home may
now be left out of accoimt on the general question without bringing
second-hand and doubtful testimony to invalidate the evidence o£
fifty persons of knowledge and position whose names and addresses
are given in Lord Dunraven's book published in 1870 and lately
reprinted by the S.P.R.
I do not wish to vindicate my own well-founded conviction that
physical phenomena are positive facts which render nugatory all
tendencious articles to the contrary ; nor am I specially concerned
to defend Home or Stainton Moses nor any other medium whose
May 1930 Correspondence 79
honesty is assailed many years after their deaths. Of each of them
might be said,
He has outsoared the shadow of our night,
Envy and cakimny and hate and pain.
And that unrest which men miscall delight
Can touch him not and torture not again.
From the contagion of the world's slow stain
He is secure ; and now can never mourn
A heart grown cold, a head grown grey in vain !
Yours, etc.,
S. DE Brath.
[Count Perovsky writes : Mr S. De Brath thinks that it is " a sad
pity" that I should have let 55 and 72 years elapse since D. D. Home's
sittings at Biarritz before attacking " his credibility as a medimn."
Well, 72 years ago I did not exist at all, and 55 years ago I was only
four years old ! And when D. D. Home died I had hardly begun to
interest myself in psychical research at all. All history is based on
our discussing the activity of and passing judgement on people who
died years ago, sometimes many centuries ago. I do not feel in the
least inclined, I confess, to treat differently either D. D. Home or
Stainton Moses.
It is significant that, whilst speaking at length of Dicksonn and
Cyon. Mr De Brath does not once mention Dr Barthez's name, and
this though I expressly say (p. 251) :
" To me, however, Dr Barthez's
evidence suffices."
And it is, I confess, disconcerting to me at least to see Mr De Brath
mention Dr Crandon's careful laboratory experiments " as evi-
dence for the reality and genuineness of physical phenomena.]
Nonsense Names.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In the Journal for January Mr Saltmarsh gives the result of
an attempt to throw some light on the genesis of the nonsense names
supplied by " Topsy," by asking a mmiber of persons to invent sets
of such names. I wonder if this method affords a real parallel. If
Topsy' s nonsense names should be " thrown up by the dream
consciousness " I should not expect them to develop on similar lines
to those one would consciously invent, judging from my own experi-
ence. A dream I had some time back will illustrate my meaning.
I was (in my dream) speaking to an employe in an office, and asking
him about his employers (I noted down on waking the events which
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May loso
had led up to this, but they are not relevant). " Well," he said,
" I\Ir Fark is so and so, but Mr Vickhorn is so and so." (The spelling
of the names is as I visualised them on awaking). Now I am as
certain as can be th?^t I never saw or heard those names before ;
and I am fairly certain that if I had set out to invent names as Mr
Saltmarsh's experimenters were asked to do I should not have
arrived at anything so original. I should probably have invented
" associated " names, or " literary sounding " ones, or a class which
I think Mr Saltmarsh has not suggested, formed by taking a common
name and altering the initial letter, or combining two syllables of
different names.
The experimenters were, it is true, asked to " keep their minds as
blank as possible," but I am not clear that invention woidd be
eliminated, fully at least, by this precaution.
I feel some doubt, therefore, whether that method throws much
light on the actual origin of Topsy's nonsense names, at least if the
experimenters were similarly constituted to myself, who am obliged
mournfully to recognize, by repeated experience, how much more
original and swift my subconscious intelligence is than my conscious.
Yours, etc.,
H. N. Dixon.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In connection with my article on nonsense names in a recent
issue of the Journal (xxvi. 5) one of the participators in the experi-
ment has written to me with regard to the suggestion that the
prevalence of names beginning with 0 " in Mrs Elliott's sittings
might be due to an association, formed in childhood, with her own
surname. I had noticed with this participator that he had a
tendency to start his names with " P " or " Ph " but as his surname
began with a " W " I saw no support of my suggestion in his case.
He now informs me that his real surname actually begins with " P,"
the name by which I knew him being a " non de plume." In so far
as this single example goes it appears to lend some support to my
suggestion, although the fact that the letter " P " was often followed
by an " h " rather diminishes from its value, for it must be by the
sound of the letter that any association would be formed, and the
sound of " Ph " is quite distinct from that of " P " alone. The
matter is of small importance though perhaps possessing some
interest as a psychological curiosity ; in any case we cannot
generalise from so small a number of examples.
Yours, etc.,
W. H. Saltmarsh.
Mat 1030 Corresjyoiidence 81
Cross-Correspondences
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I did not know, until I had tlie letter recently circularized
by the Society's officers, that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle had expressed
the opinion that " the Cross-correspondences are not of much value";
hut, if so, I am among those who agree with him on that point.
When studying these, I have an uneasy feeling at the back of my
mind that, given scholarship, a good reference library and plenty of
time, it would be possible to find some sort of cross-correspondence
between almost any two or more passages. The only one of them
that made any real impression iipon me is that called " Alexander's
Tomb " {Proceedings, xxvii). On the other hand, the experiments in
the revival of literary knowledge. " Lethe " {Proceedings, xxiv, xxv),
" Statins " {Proceedings, xxvii, called there " Some Recent Scripts
Affording Evidence of Personal Survival ") and The Ear of
Dionysius " {Proceedings, xxix), have never ceased to impress me as
being of extraordinary interest and importance, and I always feel
sorry that the Society has not found it possible to pursue and
develop that promising line of investigation.
Yours, etc.,
Hubert Wales.
SHORT NOTICES.
Karl Gruber, Okkultismus und Biologic. Prefaces by Rudolf
Hecker and Max Dingier. 8vo, pp. 190, portrait. Munich :
Drei Masken Verlag, 1930. Price M.5.50.
This small collection of papers by the late Professor Gruber is
intended to serve as a memorial to this investigator. He was one
of the group round Schrenck-Notzing, and accepted the various
phenomena vouched for by his leader. Oae of the most interesting
papers here reprinted is one on telepathy between mother and child.
Though the facts adduced are not very convincing, Gruber's theories
as to the existence of a telepathic rapport between mother and
child are interesting and suggestive. The prefaces in the present
volume are a touching testimony to the affection in which Gruber
was held by all those who came into contact with him, even as
opponents.
C. L'Estrange Ewen, Witch Hunting and Witch Trials. 8vo, pp.
xiii. 345, 7 ill. London : Kegan Paul. 1929. Price "21s. net.
After recent pseudo-learned publications on witchcraft, the present
book deserves a warm welcome. It consists almost entirely of
original documents, a large part of the book being formed by 790
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1930
abstracts of Bills of Indictment and by various complete Indict-
ments, Depositions, and Examinations. To these Mr Ewen has
added an interesting Introduction, containing references to numerous
further original documents, and several valuable tables, facsimiles
and illustrations.
Helen Alex. Dallas, Comrades on ike Homeward Way. 8vo,
pp. 320. London: W. Collins vSons and Co. Ltd.^ [1930],
Price 21s. net.
Miss Dallas's latest book is devoted largely to the work of F. W.
Myers and to posthumous messages purporting to come from him.
Hence the title of the book, which is taken from a line in Homer,
" Striving to save my own soul, and my comrades' homeward way
a line which made a peculiar appeal to Myers. Miss Dallas's careful
and conscientious method of treating her material is now well
known. Some readers will agree and others will not with Miss
Dallas's appraisal of the evidence for survival presented by her,
but her profound sincerity and freedom from all sensationalism
must impress all.
Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue ilelajjsychique, January-February 1930.
This number opens with a short and completely sceptical paper
by Prof. Charles Richet dealing with Mme David-Neel's paper in
the Revue de Paris (see below). The same writer briefly describes
two recent incidents in the experience of a friend of his to which
he is inclined to attribute a supernormal character
The jyiece de resistance of this number of the Revue Metapsychique
is still Dr Osty's long paper (second instalment) on the " Diagnosis
of Diseases by subjects 'endowed with paranormal knowledge ".
The title is perhaps somewhat misleading, as many of the incidents
described have little or nothing to do with a medical diagnosis.
Their evidential value varies in my opinion a good deal. Some are
undoubtedly very striking (especially case LX, where a dead body
is " clairvoyantly " discovered by Mme Morel, one of Dr Osty's
subjects), and others much less so. We hear hardly anything, by
the way, of these subjects' /ai?'Mfes, surely a most important factor.
A very interesting case may have been that of M. Berteaux, a
former French Minister of War (died in 1911), to whom a fair
" pythoness " is said to have foretold in 1874 that he would be
General-in-Chief and would be crushed to death by a " flying car "
;
and in fact M. Berteaux was killed by an aeroplane suddenly falling
May 1930 Notes on Periodicals 83
on the ground. Unfortunately the evidence as to the prediction
leaves something to be desired. Prevision of the future in the strict
sense of the word is so extraordinary and fer se improbable that its
reality is never likely to be proved by such anecdotes, however
striking and exciting. We want something much superior in
evidence.
M. Pascal has a valuable paper on the influence of hashish on
the unconscious, passing in review the various aspects of that
influence such as enhanced suggestibility, revelation of the subjects'
subconscious tendencies, psychological dedoublejnent, etc. It is
significant that on awakening the subject remembers the sensations
to which hashish had given rise.
Revue Metapsychique, March-April 1930.
Dr Osty prints a third and last instalment of his paper on the
supernormal diagnosis of diseases. This instalment deals at con-
siderable length with the mistakes made by " subjects endowed with
paranormal knowledge." I confess that after reading it I do not
think it more difficult than I did before that the explanation of this
particular branch of " metapsychics " is to be sought purely and
simply in haphazard guessing. I would postulate possible super-
normal knowledge in a very, very limited number of cases only, and
this only tentatively, though I know that many investigators will
disagree with me.
M. de Briey formulates some general ideas and practical sugges-
tions in connection with dowsing ; and in a short paper entitled
" Mental Inertia," Dr Osty recalls the findings, favourable to animal
magnetism, of the Commission appointed in 1826 by the French
Academy of Medicine, which findings, however, subsequently had
no effect whatever on the study of the subject by official science.
An article by M. Victor Forbin on fire-walking in South Africa,
the Hawai and Fiji Islands is quoted from the review Aristote
(November 1929). The explanation is suggested that those walking
through the fire are, it is alleged, protected against combustion by
" soles of steam," engendered by perspiration, forming themselves
for a short time on their feet. This " explanation " was given to
M. Forbin by a Professor Schwartz. The text of an interesting letter
from M. Th. Gautier, of Reunion, to Professor Ch. Richet is further
printed. It is asserted in this letter, dated 21 January 1930, that
fire-walking occurs in that island regularly at the begiiming of
January, and two photographs (taken by M. Gautier) are appended,
one showing four men walking through the burning embers.
Revue de Paris, December 1929.
Mme Alexandra David-Neel, author of several books on Thibet
and Buddhism, the last in date being Mystiques et magiciens de
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1930
Thibet, has a paper on " Psychical Phenomena in Thibet ". It is
asserted in it inter alia that " telepathic transmissions both willed
and unconscious do not seem to be very rare " in that country,
Mme David-Neel adding that as far as she is concerned, she is
convinced she did receive telepathic messages from lamas with
whom she had been in touch. No instances are given. (Two
experiences of this type are however described in Mystiques et
Magiciens, pp. 238-242). A further part of the same paper is
devoted to " materialisations ", perhaps a somewhat misleading
term, since hallucination is not excluded, though in two of the
episodes narrated it may—or must—have been collective. (One
more case is described in Mysti(f!es et Magiciens, pp. 295-297, but
here it is difficult to feel sure that we have not to deal with an in-
stance of mistaken identity ; if not, the " materialisation " or
collective hallucination appears to have been coupled with a
premonition.) On the whole and though Mme David-Neel's paper
is singularly devoid of evidential facts, I do not quite agree with
M. Richet's sweepingly negative verdict (see above).
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, March 1930.
This number opens with another instalment (profusely illustrated
with diagrams) of Professor Chr. Winther's experiments in tele-
kinesis with Frau Rasmussen (see the review in Journal, xxv. 15-17).
Dr Haslinger brings to a close his translation of Mr F. W. Warrick's
paper on his photographic and other experiments with Mrs A. E.
Deane. Mr Warrick has no doubt of the genuineness of the facts.
Dr Kindborg has a paper on an " overwhelming " apport observed
in his private circle in November 1928. The epithet seems to me
exaggerated, seeing that the phenomenon occurred in total darkness,
that the medium was seated at a certain distance from the circle,
no one holding her hands, and that the apport consisted of a dozen
old picture postcards. It seems on the other hand to have coincided
with an electrical phenomenon which greatly impressed the sitters.
Apports in the presence of another medium, Heinrich Melzer, are
narrated by Herr Hans Schubert.
Frau Aue-Pogatschnigg, an Austrian now living in Sweden,
relates some incidents in her own experience ; and several gentlemen
(Dr Ludwig Welisch, Dr Dorfler, Prof. Walter) take exception to a
statement of Mr Besterman's about a Herr " Rondon " (Kordon)
in our Proceedings, xxxiii. 450.
Dr Gerda Walther has a short paper on Rudi Schneider's recent
sittings in the National Laboratory for Psychical Research, in which
she sees a " brilliant confirmation " of the late Dr von Schrenck-
Notzing's researches with the same medium. And Dr Otto Seeling,
of Berlin, lias a brief notice on Frau Giinther-Gefi'ers and her alleged
JlAY 1930 Notes on Periodicals 85
powers. It is significant ttat he admits the unsatisfactory character
of several of his own experiences with the famous German clair-
voyante.
ZeitscJirift fiir Parapsijchologie, April 1930.
Dr Pagenstecher of Mexico has a paper entitled " Telepathy and
Clairvoyance." Several experiments in psychometry with his
subject Maria Keyes de Z. are quoted, the writer postulating as an
explanation " a transcendental capacity of thought-transference
potentially inherent in the objects, condensed in animals, plants,
even stones."
A case of apparent " auto-suggestive stigmatisation " occurring
in prison is narrated by Prof. Ludwig of Freising. Dr Friedrich
Wolf of Stuttgart describes some experiments with a professional
clairvoyant named Max Moecke. A further instalment of Prof.
Winther's paper on " Experimental Eesearches in telekinesis " is
printed. Prof. Richard Hoffmann of Vienna inquires whether
parapsychology has any value for the investigation of primitive
Christianity. His paper was read at Lund, Sweden, during the fifth
International Congress for the general history of religion (August
1929).
In Kleine Mitteilungen we have a note on the Athens Congress.
Herr D. Walter of Graz (Austria) describes a case of Spuk (polter-
geist) occurring at Eggenberg, near Graz. Frieda Weissl, the
supposed mediimi. was subsequent!}^ tested in Vienna by the local
Society for Psychical Research, with " satisfactory " results. A
note signed " Dr Seeling " denies that Frau Glinther-GefEers, the
German clairvoyante, did ever clear up a murder committed in
Czernowitz.
Heinrich Freiherr Droste zu Hiilshoft'. of Miinster i. W.. asserts
having once seen a peasant walk on water (from a boat to the shore),
a distance of some ten meters. " It looked as if his feet were gliding
on the surface of the water." As the Baron took him back into the
boat he ascertained that there was not a drop of water on the man's
shoes.
With the April nimiber of the Zeitschrift fiir Parapsijchologie the
subscribers to that paper received a booklet of 10-4 pages entitled
Die Sitzungen rait Valiantine in Berlin, being a critical commentary
on Dr Kroner's recent report on Valiantine's exposure. Mr H.
Dennis Bradley (editor), Herr Florizel von Renter, Prof. Johannes
Kasnacich, Dr Gustav Zeller, Herr Konrad Schuppe and Dr Siinner
join in attempting to vindicate the medium's reputation and to
prove that there was no exposure. I note in passing that Mr Bradley
incidentally speaks (p. 18) of his own mediimiship and of that of his
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1930
wife for " direct voices " : a circumstance whicli to many will
appear as of some importance in appraising the value of his testi-
mony in the matter. He also mentions that Mrs Bradley was
accused of simulating a phenomenon at one of the Genoa sittings
with Valiantine, though adding that the accusation was afterwards
withdrawn (pp. 63, 64).
Dr Zeller admits (p. 89) that in Berlin as well as in Millesimo the
conditions of control did not correspond to up-to-date psychical
research standards, which is but another way of saying that from the
scientific standpoint both the series of sittings were quite worthless.
After that admission it becomes a question of secondary importance
whether Dr Kroner was or was not, strictly speaking, justified in
asserting that Valiantine had been exposed in Berlin. In any case,
in view chiefly of Frau von D.'s (the hostess) precise and categorical
statements about the three private sittings she had with Valiantine,
it cannot reasonably be doubted that some at least of his "pheno-
mena " were palpably fraudulent.
Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne, 1929, nos. 23-24.
This number opens with a paper by M. J. Switkowski insisting
on the difference existing between hypnotism and magnetism and
specially criticising the views in this respect of the late Prof. Leh-
mann of the University of Copenhagen. Dr Klesk's article on
psychographology deals especially with the well-known Raphael
Schermann, on whom the highest praise is bestowed. Dr Sokolowski
narrates various incidents in connection with a medium called
George L, occurring in 1924-1927. Several possibly supernormal
incidents in the life of M. K. are related by M. Wyczalkowski, of
which one may have been a premonition occurring in a dream some
five minutes before the actual fact. Short reports on the activities
in 1929 of the different Polish Societies for Psychical Research (in
Warsaw two and one in Lwow) are printed.
Two papers (by M. Prosper Szmurlo and M. St. Rzewuski) on
telepathic experiments systematically carried on between Warsaw
and Athens (October 1928-May 1929) constitute the ]nece de resistance
of this number. Thirty seances were held, 118 collective attempts
were made, the number of individual ones being much higher.
Those which dealt with the transmission of colours and scenes are
regarded as unsatisfactory ; it is maintained on the contrary that
in the transference of drawings results above what might have been
due to chance coincidence were obtained. M. Rzewuski's paper
contains an instructive series of tables dealing with the subject,
whilst M. Szmurlo's is accompanied with reproductions of some of
the most striking results obtained.
P.-P.-S.
Mat 1930 Notes on Periodicals 87
Psychica, January 1930.
The editor, Mme Bordeiieux, describes one of the public sittings
given by Pascal Fortbuny, at which an accomplice was found giving
him private signals as to the nature of the subject decided on for
telepathic transmission to him by the audience. Mme Bordeneux,
w^ho has hitherto been one of M. Forthnny's warmest supporters, is
to be congratulated on her courage in publishing these facts. But
it is a little strange that we have had to wait till now to learn that
Forthuny has been previously detected in specific instances of
fraud.
Psychica, March 1930.
A letter is printed from M. Forthuny, in which he denies the
statements of Mme Borderieux, alleging prejudice and the like.
The editor's reply cites other suspicious incidents and quotes various
observations of M. Forthuny's which do not redound to his credit.
The Science of Life, Parts 28-30.
This is a useful work having as its object the presentation of
biology in a popular but accurate way. The authors are Mr H. G.
Wells, Professor Julian Huxley, and Mr G. P. Wells. In parts 28-30
some attention is given to psychical research. It is attention of a
distinctly self-conscious and patronising kind, but not more so than
was to be expected from Mr Wells's past pronouncements on the
subject. On the whole the writers are soundly critical and manage
to bring in a good many names and allusions to the literature of
psychical research with substantial accuracy. There is a mistake,
however, in the initials of Kichard Hodgson, and it is scarcely
adequate to describe Mrs Verrall as a celebrated medium."
The chapter on " Human Behaviour and the Human Mind " has
a section entitled Automatism and Mediumship." The nature of
Automatism and Control is explained, as well as the adequacy of
normal psychological explanations of these phenomena in themselves.
In part 30 an entire chapter is devoted to Borderland Science
and the Question of Personal Survival." The real problems of
survival, however, are not seriously attempted, the best types of
evidence being barely mentioned or not at all. The supernormal
phenomenon treated with most favour is, curiously enough, " dream
anticipation," and that on the basis of Mr Dunne's book, which is
scientifically without value. The treatment of telepathy is scrappy
.and rather "dogmatically sceptical. No attempt is made to estimate
the evidence, beyond various allusions (in which Mr Wells's pen is
to be detected) to its volume.
Under the inappropriate heading of " Clairvoyance, Table-
tapping, and Telekinesis," spirit-communications are dealt with.
88 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research mat i930
The discussion consists largely of severe, though very just, criticisms
of such types of Control as Pheneas of Ur. Materialization and tele-
plasm are treated with a good deal more approval. Here again the
emphasis is wrong. Thus, the Eva C. phenomena are considered
to be more import.ant and actually to be recorded in more detail,
than those of Eusapia Palladino, and those of Margery to be more
important than either. The fact is, of course, that the S.P.R.
Palladino re])ort is by far the best and the most detailed report on
physical phenomena yet produced. In discussing the Margery case
the writers maintain a " right to incredulity " though they " cannot
absolutely reject the evidence for these phenomena." Here, as
throughout these sections dealing with psychical research, there is
clear evidence of a conflict of opinion betv,-een the writers. On the
whole, however, the conflict has been successfully resolved, and in
general a praiseworthy suspension of judgement is exercised by the
collaborators.
Th. B.
No 466.—Vol. XXVI. .. _
June 1930.
JOURNAL
OF TFIE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Berkeley, R. F., 127 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, Calif.,
U.S.A.
Evans, Miss Joan, 9 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W. 11.
Evelyn, C. J. A., Wotton House, Dorking, Surrey.
Henderson, Miss H. M., M.B., 25 Ferndale, Tunbridge Wells.
Hervey, H. L., 54 Norton Road, Hove, Sussex.
Kinglake, Mrs, Moushill Manor, Milford, Surrey.
Murrell, A. W., 3 Titchfield Terrace, Albert Road, London, N.W. 8.
Rinehart, Dr Stanley M., 2419 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 271st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 14 May 1930, at 5 p.m., Mr W. R
BousFiELD, K.C., in the chair. There were also present : Lord
Balfour, Mr J. Arthur Hill, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W. Lambert,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs
W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J.
WooUey ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr Salter gave a report on the recent Athens Congress, which he.
Sir Oliver Lodge and Mr Besterman had attended as representatives
of the Society. He stated that, pursuant to authority given him
before the Congress, he had given an invitation for the next Congress
to be held in London in the autumn of 1932, and that this invitation
had been unanimously accepted.
The Monthly Accounts for March and April were presented and
taken as read.
F 89
Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1930
TRANSACTIONS OF THE FOURTH CONGRESS FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The Transactions of the Athens Congress are being edited in England.
But the possibility of printing the volume depends on the number of
copies which are subscribed and paid for in advance. The price of
each copy will be 7s. 6d., and subscriptions, with remittances, should
therefore be sent without delay to the Secretary, Society for
Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
The Transactions will include, among many other papers read by
such Continental students as Professor Driesch and Professor
Oesterreich, the following papers by representatives of the S.P.R. :
" On the Reasons for the Non-Recognition of Psychical Research by
the Majority of the Scientific World," by Sir Oliver Lodge ;
" Some
Suggestions for the Improvement of the Conditions of Investigation
of Controllable Phenomena," by Mr W. H. Salter ;
" The Case of
the Abbe Vachere," by the Hon. Everard Feilding ; and " A
Critical Estimate of the Present Status of Psychical Research " and
" Recent and Current Investigations undertaken by the S.P.R.,"
by Mr Theodore Besterman.
A DEFERRED IMPRESSION DURING A TRANCE SITTING.
The following incident occurred at one of the " Absent Sitter
"
sittings during the Society's investigation of the trance phenomena
of Mrs Warren Elliott in 1926-1927.
Readers of Mr Saltmarsh's Report on this investigation (Proceed-
ings, xxxix. 47 ff.), will remember that at the " Absent Sitter
"
sittings only the medium and the note-taker were present, an article
associated with some deceased person taking the place of a sitter ;
and that adequate precautions were taken to prevent any one
knowing until after the sitting had been held who had contributed
the article or with what " communicator " it was associated.
The sitting in question took place on 1 February 1927, Miss
Horsell recording. The medium was not in trance.
After describing a " form of a lady only partly building up " and
stating that she seemed to be very worried about a man connected
with her who had been ill and in consequence feeling very lonely and
depressed, the medium gave further impressions concerning him
which are omitted here as irrelevant to the case under review.
She continued, " I believe he must only just be pulling himself
together, because she shows me—do you know who I see ?
'
the still
silent man.' It's him that she is showing, sitting sort of slightly
doubled up, sitting about. It is him I see and I believe he is sitting
in a room which is rather oblong and which has a window at the back
June 1930 Deferred Impression during a Trance Sitting
of him, seems small panes, and I believe it is fairly higli up—seema
to be higb up, fairly high from the ground, probably higher than
this [the medium indicates her own room which is on the first floor].
There seems to be trees, and yet I don't feel that I am in the country
—I feel I am surrounded with houses. It is one of those what I call
stuffy rooms, you can't move for furniture. I am almost sure that
lady is connected with him."
The article which was used at this sitting, was contributed by
Mr Ashton, to whom a copy of the notes was sent in which the
leference to the '
still silent man '
was omitted. He annotated it
as follows : "I cannot, even remotely, connect any part of this
report with my late wife, who owned the article and which she used
ahnost daily." [Dated 11 February 1927].
The notes were also sent to Mr Montgomery Smith, an anonymous
.sitter who was ahvays referred to by the medium as '
the still silent
man.' Mr Montgomery Smith wrote to the Secretary, on his receipt
of the record, as follows :
" I am immensely interested in it. It has
no bearing at all on present conditions, but if referred to conditions
prevailing a year ago it is in several points astoundingly accurate.
I think you will be interested when you read my notes." [Dated
3 February 1927].
Mr Montgomery Smith had had two sittings with Mrs Elliot, one
on 7 October 1926 and one on 11 November 1926. A study of the
notes of these sittings shows that most of the contents in the
Absent sitter " sitting on 1 February 1927, might be considered as
leminiscent of these sittings. The only new material is that follow-
ing the medium's recognition of ' the still silent man.'
The sitter's annotations of these previous sittings show that he
-was seriously ill in December 1925 and January 1926, and in a
•despondent and hopeless state of mind ; he was suffering in fact
from a breakdown following the shock of his wife's sudden death in
ISTovember 1925. He stated that on 1 February 1926, he was practi-
cally well again but very weak. His annotation of the new material
is as follows :
" Accurate description of room. I used to sit a good
deal after breakfast (and indeed do now while I smoke a pipe) in the
dining room which is on the top floor, (3rd). It is oblong ;
it has a
window of small panes and I always sit with my back to this. It
has rather a lot of furniture and, as my brother-in-law's children use
it as a playroom, it is rather encumbered with a lot of their things,
m that moving about is rather restricted. There are two pieces of
old furniture, a chair and an oak chest.
" This house is in a Square, and the window looks on the Square
garden. Early in February last year, 1926, the garden had several
large trees. These were cut down a few weeks later and replaced by
saplings, so the garden is now less suggestive of country."
92 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research June 1930
The Secretary's note dated 16 May 1927, and written up from
notes made on 7 April 1927, is as follows : "On April 7tli I saw the
room which. Mrs Dixon [Mr Montgomery Smith's sister-in-law, in
whose house he had been living since his wife's death] and Mr Mont-
gomery Smith identified with the description given at the '
Absent
Sitter '
sitting, No. 54. It is a slightly oblong room (about 15 x 13-
paces). The room has the appearance of being more oblong than it
really is, owing partly perhaps to the arrangement of the furniture^
and partly to the position of the door and window, which almost,
face one another and are placed about the middle of the longer walls.
The chair in which Mr Montgomery Smith used to sit stands to the-
left of the fireplace with its back to the window. The window has-
old-fashioned square panes, with perpendicular bars outside, and
it looks on to trees, the house being in a Square with a central
garden. The room is on the third floor.
" The Square is oblong, and open only on one side, the north,
which is formed by a biisy thoroughfare. The east and the west
are the long sides. Mrs Dixon's house is in the middle of the south
side, furthest removed from the sounds of traffic, and facing the long
narrow length of the garden. Mrs Dixon told me that eight or nine
large old trees were cut down in the Spring of 1926, i.e., soon after
the period that seems to have been indicated at the sitting. The
branches of some of these had come close to her windows.
" The room contains a good deal of furniture ; in addition to the
genuine old pieces mentioned by Mr Montgomery Smith there are
several modern imitations of old furniture."
The question might arise whether the article used at the sitting
might not have reminded the medium of one used previously and
contributed by Mr Montgomery Smith. It was a very large^
practical house-keeping purse with the appearance of having been
much used. Mr Montgomery Smith had contributed several
articles, none of which would suggest a resemblance.
It is an interesting coincidence that the contributor of the article
and the man with whom the sitting was concerned were the only
two among our sitters and contributors of articles who were classified
together as representing sitters " Recently bereaved, with utter
sense of loss." This coincidence may be purely accidental. It
suggests however the question whether the article contributed may
not have carried with it an influence which the mediimi subcon-
sciously associated with '
the still silent man,' and which roused a
latent impression which she may have subconsciously received at
one of the previous sittings.
June 1930 'rite Case of a Damaged Gravestone 93
THE CASE OF A DAMAGED GEAVESTONE.
M. 109.
The following case has been brouglit to our notice through the inter-
mediary of Mr E. L. Vaughan, a Member of the Society, who wrote :
" I enclose a statement of an old friend Mrs Sparkes whom I
casually met a few days ago. I have known her over forty years and
have always looked upon her as particularly matter-of-fact. The
last person I should have thought, to give way to flights of imagina-
tion. 1 also knew her husband fairly intimately. I had lost touch
with them for some years. On discovering that 1 had an open mind
on the subject, she related a number of experiences of which the
enclosed is, 1 think, sufficiently remarkable and specific to bring to
your notice." [Letter dated 24 March 1930.]
The statement by Mrs. Sparkes is as follows :
" My late husband died in May 1929. He is buried at Shamley
Green near Guildford.
" I ordered a firm of Monimiental Masons to erect a Cross over the
grave. They wrote last January that this had been done, and sent
their bill.
" My custom is to pay all bills at once. My impulse was, accord-
ingly, to, then and there, send a cheque.
" A communicator purporting to be my late husband has been in
the habit of sending me messages since his death. I scribble them
down on bits of paper or in a note-book.
" While I contemplated sending the cheque—I was holding a
pencil not waiting for any message or thinking of anything in
particular, when it wrote :
'
See to my grave at Shamley Green. I
see a crack at the base of the right side of the cross.' I asked '
Do
you mean on the right side when facing the cross ?
'
He answered
'
Yes. It is on the right side standing on the path. I see a crack at
the lower part. The words are all right on the stone. Do not pay
for it until it is mended. Your name will be there [Note by Mrs
Sparkes : I have intended being buried in the same grave when my
time comes.] and I do not like it. Do not go on with the payment
until it is attended to, or it vnll not be done.'
" I refrained then from sending the cheque. I did so somewhat
reluctantly as it worries me to have any bill owing. I expected
however to be able to see the grave without any delay—as soon as it
stopped raining in fact—for the weather was bad and I had a cold
at the time.
"As the days passed without my being able to go, I got more and
more restive at not paying the bill or even acknowledging receipt of
it. Eventually I felt I must take some notice of the receipt of it,
so wrote that I would settle it as soon as I had seen the Cross.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1930
" The firm was of the highest standing and its charges, 42 guineas
for the stone alone, seemed to prechide any reasonable possibility
of bad work, so I might have sent the cheque to have done with it,
but that the messages kept coming. The estimate was for '
the best
cut granite.'
" The Cross as ordered, was to be a copy of one seen elsewhere and
put up by the same firm. The design was : a cross standing on
three superimposed blocks of granite. The original was beautiful.
My husband's shows bad work. On at last seeing the monument I
found a gash three inches long, one inch wide, and one inch deep on
the lowest block on the right hand side facing the path."
The actual script referred to by Mrs. Sparkes has been seen by
Miss Newton, and runs as follows :
" See to . . . stone at the grave and go a ground side of the grave
to the right side of the stone
" at one side of the stone I see a crack do not pay for it until it is
mended as your name will be that side and I do not like it. You
must go to the vicar and tell him about it at once or it will not be
done
" You will see a crack at the base of the stone do not go on with
the payment until it is attended to or it will not be done I see a
crack at the base of the right side of the cross at the side you are at
on the path See to it.
" Yes, yes, it is on your right side ... as on the path I see a crack
at the lower part I see a
" Yes. Yes, Yes, the words are right on the stone it is the crack
at the right side on the base it is at a good " [the next word is
illegible].
Miss Newton has interviewed Mrs Sparkes and ascertained that
Mrs Sparkes had had no news of the progress of the stone between
ordering it and hearing that it was completed. None of her friends
had seen it in the meantime, nor did she know anyone who had
visited the cemetery at Shamley Green after the stone was put up.
Mrs Sparkes also stated that she had no recollection whatever of
having previously seen a similar defect in a tombstone, nor of
anything that had caused her to associate such a defect with the
granite of which the stone is made. She never went to cemeteries
as she disliked them.
The manufacturers of the gravestone were commimicated with
and confirmed the date of the erection of the gravestone as 22 January
1930, that Mrs Sparkes was probably advised within a day or so,
subsequently, and that the stone bore a tool mark, and that the
stone was entirely made at their works in Exeter.
The gravestone in Shamley Green cemetery was examined on
12 May 1930 by Dr Woolley and Mrs Brackenbuxy, who confirm that.
June 1930 The Case o f a Damayed Gravestone '
95
on the right side of the stone, facing it from the path, there is " a
defect in the granite [which] had been filled up with cement and
from the outline of this defect it has the appearance of a tool mark
rather than a crack." There are one or two other minor tool
marks on the stone.
The evidence seems to show that Mrs Sparkes received a genuinely
veridical impression of the mark on the gravestone. Though
whether her impression was received by thought-transference from
one of the workmen or others knowing of the mark, by clairvoyance,
or from a spirit intermediary, must be left an open question.
A PHANTASM OF THE DEAD CONVEYING INFORMATION
UNKNOWN TO THE PERCIPIENT.
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
[The age of this case would as a rule exclude it from the Journal,
but in view of its special interest as belonging to a rare type of
incident, it has been thought useful to record it. Ed.]
In January 1930 I made the acquaintance of a Mme. K. of
Bessarabia (now in Rimiania, a Russian province from 1812 to 1917),
who related to me a very startling case of post-mortem apparition
happening to her uncle, M. Platon Biberi, a Bessarabian landowner
(address : Of. post. Secureni, Jud. Hotin, Bessarabia). I therefore
wrote to this gentleman, who kindly replied giving all the information
in his power.
As will be seen from his second letter, in which he answered my
second letter, the evidence unfortunately cannot be made as satis-
factory as S.P.R. standards require, but I think the case sufficiently
striking as it is. M. Biberi's first letter narrates several other
apparently supernormal incidents, most of them also very curious,
but the Alexander Scordelli case appears to me of quite exceptional
interest : it contains, as my readers will see, precise information
given by the apparition on a point completely unknown to the per-
cipient and outside the scope of chance-coincidence. Some will
even say on two points, but so far as the slippers are concerned, the
amount of coincidence does not seem to me sufficiently striking
to warrant a supernormal explanation. As to the size of the coffin,
may I say that this episode—if we suppose it to have occurred as
described—seems to me of peculiar value as discrediting, in the
present case, the theory of post-mortem action at the time of the
apparition ? For it is surely highly mlikely that the " spirit " of
a deceased human being should be preoccupied to such an extent
with the position of his remains in the coffin sixty days after his
" passing away " ! On the other hand I can well imagine that some
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1930
human being just dead—supposing his self still to exist in some form
somewhere—deeply impressed by what is happening to his dead
body and " telepathing " accordingly, whether consciously or
unconsciously. In which case this Scordelli-Biberi episode would
afford us a good instance of deferred telepathic impression between
the dead and the living. (Telepathy from the living alone cannot
of course be regarded as excluded here).^
M. Platan Biheris ^ letter of 10 February 1930 {in part).
... In August 1912 and at his request I brought Alexander
Scordelli, a nephew of mine, into the Britchany zemstvo hospital,
where his state was acknowledged by the physicians to be hopeless
(he had consumption). Feeling probably that he would not see me
again, he thanked me, when saying goodbye, for all and asked me
not to forget his daughter, a pupil of one of the Kishinev [Chisinau
in Rumanian] colleges. Two months later, on a dark October
evening, a physician of the Britchany hospital telephoned to me :
" Poor Scordelli has just died." The very dense mud and an
ailment did not permit me to make twenty versts [13 miles] to
attend his funeral.
Two months later (again) I left for Kishinev on business, stopping
for twenty-four hours at Beltzy, Bessarabia, on the way.
I put up at the same inn as usual, went to bed at the regular
time, but having put out the light in my room, could not fall asleep
at once on account of the servants noisily running in the passage,
the electric bells ringing and an electric arc-light hissing.
As it seemed to me, I was beginning to lose consciousness before
falling asleep. I then suddenly commenced perceiving distinctly,
among other sounds in the passage, a characteristic shuffling of
slippers, as if a man with feeble gait were approaching the door of
my room. When these footsteps stopped before the door, which I
had locked, I felt and understood that the visitor was none other
than the late Alexander Scordelli. I was seized with fear and
covered myself with the counterpane, head included. I then heard
him grasping the door handle, beginning to move it and saying :
" Open, Uncle, open." As I did not answer his request :
" Do you
not think I can pass through the door ?
" he said. Frightened at
such a possibility and making a big effort, I asked him :
'
What
I I know of two other incidents where circumstances relating to the external
appearance or position of the dead body seem to have become prima facie
known to the '
spirit " supposed to have once animated it. One is narrated in
detail in Proceedings, vi. 17. The second I briefly referred to in the Journal,
xxiv. 264.
' M. Biberi is now, as he informs me, in his 65th year. This letter, in
common with the following one, has been translated by me from the original
Bussian.
June 1930 A Phantasm of the Dead 97
•doest thou want from me ? Speak !
" And then the answer came :
" Put me in properly ; the coffin is narrow, the coffin is short."
After repeating these words twice in a voice already dull and faint
i.e went slowly away, his slippers still shuffling.
In May 1913 (the next year) I happened to go on business to
Britchany, the borough where Scordelli had died half a year before.
A woman was waiting on me in my room [at the inn] whose face
I seemed to know, but without remembering where I had seen her.
As she noticed this :
" Sir, you probably do not recognise me ?
"
she asked. " I was ward-servant in the hospital when you brought
the late Scordelli in." Feeling that I might learn something of
interest from her in connection with the Beltzy apparition, I asked
lier to tell me how he died. " Well, he died as I was attending him
[literally :
" on my arms "]. I held the taper ^ for him, I washed
his body after his death and attended his funeral. They buried him
in his new clothes and with slippers on, for it was difficult already to
put boots on his feet. One thing was bad : no special coffin was
ordered and he was put into a hospital coffin, such as are kept for
emergency purposes. Well, this coffin proved to be so narrow and
short, that when he was being laid into it, the bones cracked. . .
."
M. Platon Biberi's letter of 18 March 1930.
Much Esteemed Count,
I did not answer your last letter before, hoping to find out
the woman who had given me evidence as to the way in which
Alexander Scordelli had been buried.
Unfortunately I have not succeeded in finding this woman. The
•case is now almost eighteen years old, and it is not known where she
is now, nay whether she is alive in general.
I can only confirm the genuineness of her account.
In answer to the questions you have put me, I can say the
following :
(1) The apparition in question took place two months, not four,
after the death.
^
(2) Undoubtedly it occurred not whilst I was sleeping, but in a
state of some torpor before sleep, which admitted of my hearing and
feeling everything, but did not permit me to move.
(3) In the cases when inexplicable phenomena occurred to me,
they were completely fulfilled later on, I may say, and in most
cases after a brief space of time.
^ [This probably refers to the prayers said by the bedside of dying people.
P.-P.-S.]
^ [On re-reading M. Biberi's first letter I see that the question which he here
answers was due to my not having read his letter with sufficient attention.
P.-P.-S.]
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1930
The only case when a long interval intervened before the fulfil-
ment, was my veridical dream as to Nicholas Stamati's deat
16 years later. ^
(4) I have no objection to my name being mentioned in the
communication you intend sending the London Society for Psychical
Research.
Accept, etc.
Platon Biberi.
CORRESPONDENCE.
A PSEUDO-BOOKTEST.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I wonder if you would like the following incident for the
Journal. I thought it had rather interesting points, and is mostly
useful I think in showing with what care the evidence for booktests
should be weighed. This one was done as a joke more or less, but
it had quite as much success as the average booktest, and made a
very distinct impression on the " sitter," who was new to this line
of country.
Mrs Everett, a friend of mine here, asked me to tea to meet a
Dr Kendrew who wanted to hear about S.P.R. subjects. He had
never heard of booktests, and I was describing how they were
worked. I said, " The medium would tell you, for instance, to take
the third book from the left from the third shelf in the bookcase
which faces you when you go into your consulting room, and on page
3 you will find the word '
bridge '
or something connected with the
word bridge." I suddenly felt that I had such a clear picture of the
bookcase that I added, partly for fun, as I thought it would be so
entertaining if I scored a bull, " Do look when you get home and
let me know the result."
A few days later Dr Kendrew wrote that he had looked in the
place, page, and book described, and found the word " Roberts-
bridge." He came to see me shortly after this, and seemed much
struck with the coincidence, though he left it in the balance so to
speak. I deepened the impression made by telling him that his
bookcase was not up to the ceiling, but only the ordinary bookcase
height (right), that it had untidy things and a few books on the top
^ [This incident is narrated at length in M. Biberi's earlier letter to me.
The prediction came true in January 1929, 16 years and one week after the
dream. Mme K., M. Biberi's niece, has stated to me that she (repeatedly, I
think) had heard of this premonitory dream before its fulfilment.
The first sentence of answer (3) replies to my enquiry whether M. Biberi ever
had inexplicable experiences not corresponding to actual facts (this to test the
probability of chance-coincidence). P.-P.-S.]
June 1930 Correspondence 99
shelf (right), and tliat I saw something long rather like a bone, only
I knew it wasn't a bone, leaning at this ^ ^ angle on the top (there was
something leaning at that angle but it was a tennis racket and on the
bottom shelf).
Isn't this a perfectly typical incident ? The word " bridge
"
found in the proper place, myself with a definite feeling of having
seen the bookcase, the " sitter " impressed at the strange coincidence,
and the bad shot at the racket so typical too.
Had Dr Kendrew been coached to regard me as a reliable medium,
and had he had emotional reasons to welcome an incident proving
knowledge of his home surroundings, I think it would have affected
him definitely towards belief. For myself, though I feel chance is
quite the most likely explanation, I cannot shake myself free from
imagining that, as I have had clairvoyant experiences, that this may
be another of them, even though my more sensible self realises how
likely it is that the description of the bookcase would fit nine con-
sulting rooms out of ten, and that my being a good visualiser would
account for the apparent clearness of my mental impression.
Another school might consider telepathy from the mind of the sitter,
who said he had read the book, a guide book of the district, though
he had no conscious knowledge of it.
Mrs Everett is witness to the incident, and you could have Dr
Kendrew's letter. Of course I have never been to Dr Kendrew's
house. ,^
Yours, etc.,
Ina Jephson.
[In connexion with this letter it appears desirable to point out
that no general inference for or against the supernormal origin of
booktests can be drawn from a single incident. As Miss Jephson
herself points out, it would be possible to argue that her success was
due to a flash of clairvoyance. The evidence at present available
suggests that the amoimt of success obtained in booktests given by
Mrs Leonard is beyond what can be attributed to chance (see, e.g.,
" On the Element of Chance in Book-Tests," Proceedings, xxxiii.
606-20). Hon. Ed.]
REVIEW.
Stanley de Brath, The Drama of Europe, or the Soul of History.
8vo, pp. 224. London : Arthur H. Stockwell Ltd., 1930.
Price 7s. 6d. net.
In the Introduction the author states that European history is a
drama in which every Act is a cycle of spiritual change, and his
purpose is to show " that the principle revealed by the drama is
continuous, uniform and causative ; historical phases being the
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1930
direct results of a definite law of spiritual consequence." In the
body of the book lie traces the course of empires and civilisations on
these lines, quoting from many authors, with adequate references.
The material has been carefully collected and the story has been well
told. The author also traces the development of Christianity,
showing its connection with secular history. Much of its initial
success was due to the assurance of the resurrection of Jesus and of
the continuous life of His followers after physical death, also to
belief in the supernormal phenomena recorded by the early writers.
Finally he considers how the process of decay can be arrested
before the civilisation of to-day is destroyed like the systems of the
past, for its present condition is precarious. He declares that as
the cumulative action of individuals composes the movements of
commtmities the only hope is that there may be a widespread
development of spirituality, a "change of heart.." In this connection
he trusts that some aid may come from psychical research and
the growth of New Thought as set forth by J. Troward (pp. 205-209).
In discussing the former subject (pp. 193-198), he compares the
animistic and philosophic theories of the cause of phenomena. He
hopes that " metapsychic " facts may open the mind of the mass of
mankind to the survival and possibilities of the human soul and
that New Thought may eventually be spread through churches,
schools and the press (p. 218). It is a suggestive argument and will
appeal to many who deplore the growth of materialism.
A. W. Trethewy.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitsclrrift fur Parapsijchologie, May 1930.
Herr Rudolf Lambert reviews Prof. Hyslop's experiments with
Mrs Chenoweth (Mrs Minnie Soule), which, he thinks, afford striking
evidence of supernormal power. I do not propose to demur to these
conclusions in the least, partly on account of the facts themselves,
partly because I much value the opinion of so reasonable a critic as
Herr Lambert. It seems to me, however, that he passes a little
too lightly over such a difficulty as the general avoiding of surnames
in trance-communications ; and he certainly takes no notice of the
fact that whilst surnames are rarely, in fact hardly ever given,
Christian names occur constantly. On what supernormal theory, I
may ask, can such a strange feature of these trance-utterances be
explained ?
Professor Winther brings to a close his account of his telekinetic
experiments with his Danish medium. Dr Simsa narrates some
p)hysical phenomena of a spontaneous character which he observed
in Prague in the B. family. The supposed mediums were two,
June 1930 Xotes on Periodicals 101
brother and sister. The manifestations were very varied in character,
but many more details would be desirable before expressing an
opinion as to the genuineness or otherwise of those Dr Simsa wit-
nessed. I need not explain how much the supposed " spontaneous
"
character of the performance complicates investigation worthy of
the name ; nor need I recall that Dr Simsa seems to have been
previously favourably impressed with " phenomena " as to whose
spurious character there is little doubt.
Dr Otto Seeling has a short paper on Eric Jan Hanussen's alleged
" clairvoyant " (public) performances in Berlin ; and Dr Bernouilli
reviews the Kroner-Bradley controversy about Valiantine. He
thinks mistakes may have been made on both sides, and concludes
with the hope that Valiantine may before long produce genuine
phenomena under good conditions of control.
In Kleine Mitteilungen the translation of a letter by Mr Salter is
printed with Herr R. Lambert's reply. The letter bears on the
Veley case. The question is a delicate one, but I may say that I
certainly agree with Herr Lambert that a report bearing on facts
of a rare character and which jjer se may be convincing for those only
who know the medium intimately has no scientific value. On the
other hand I am afraid it is rather difficult " to draw the line
"
anywhere in this domain if one tries to be thoroughly logical. A
certain amount of arbitrariness seems to me here almost unavoidable.
P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, January 1930.
Notice of this and the following issues of Psychic Research has been
delayed owing to the non-receipt till now of a perfect copy of this
issue. From it we learn, with regret, that Mr J. Malcolm Bird has
ceased to act as the Editor. The present reviewer often had
occasion to disagree with Mr Bird, but, taking into account the
difficulties imder which he worked, Mr. Bird succeeded in maintain-
ing a high standard in the matter he printed. Psychic Research is
now edited by Mr Bond.
In this issue Mr. Bird concludes his survey of the current status of
the Schneider mediumships. He brings forward new evidence, some
of it very ingenious, to demonstrate the conspiratorial nature of the
activities of the Schneider family. Mr Dudley discusses the pheno-
menon of reversal in psychic casts. Mr Price begins his account of
his recent sittings with Rudi Schneider. This account is continued
in a number of the succeeding issues ; it will be more convenient to
discuss it when the account is published in book form.
Pstjchic Research, February 1930.
Mr. Hamlin Garland gives an account of two test sittings with
Margery. M. Sudre writes on the structure of the sub-conscious
mind.
102 JourIt al of Society f07' Psyddcal Research June 1930
Psychic Research, March. 1930.
An article is published in which it is suggested, on the authority
of a Mrs M. E. Williams, that President Lincoln's Manifesto for the
abolition of slavery was induced by spirit influence. The article
omits to state, however, that this Mrs Williams was the subject of
one of the most notorious exposures of a physical medium (Paris
1894). M. Sudre writes on psychical research and the new physics.
Mr. Price and Miss H. Kohn begin an account of " An Indian
Poltergeist." This is continued in the two following issues.
Psychic Research, April 1930.
M. Sudre writes on the interpretation of predictions of future
events. Mr. Bond describes " A Case of Obsession with Alleged
Precognition of Events." Mr Edward P. Buiiet writes on levels of
consciousness in dream and trance states.
Psychic Research, May 1930.
Well over half of this issue consists of Mr Price's two serial publica-
tions, and of his International Notes. M. Sudre writes on reincar-
nation and experience. Mr. Bond h.as an article entitled " The
Boston-Venice Cross-Correspondence in the Margery Mediumship."
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Ltd.,
April 1930.
This issue opens with a lucid article by Mr. J. Arthur Hill on
" The Present Position in Psychical Research." Mrs Mackenzie
writes on the psychometrist Lotte Plaat. Messrs Dudley and Bird
contribute a long article on the Margery thumbprints.
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
lias been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 467.—Vol. XXVI. July 1930
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Thursday, the 31st of
July, until Monday the 8th of September. Correspondence will be
forwarded to the staff during this time. Members may borrow not
more than six volumes from the Library before the Rooms close.
The nest number of the " Journal " will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS.
Bedwell, C. E. A., 9 Mount Adon Park, East Diilwich, London,
S.E. 22.
CoUins, G. E., M.Sc, 4 Hawthorn Avenue, Wilmslow, Manchester.
Swing, Mrs, Coconut Grove, Florida, U.S.A.
Winterstein, Dr A. Baron von, Wattmanngasse 38, Vienna, Austria.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 272nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Thursday, 5 Jime 1930, at 3 p.m.. Sir Oliver
Lodge in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. R. Bousfield,
K.C., Dr C. D. Broad, Professor E. R. Dodds. Miss Ina Jephson,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry
Sidgwick, and Dr V. J. WooUey ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secre-
tary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Dr A. Tanagra was elected an Honorary Associate.
G
104 Journal of Society Jor Psychical Research July i930
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
The 104tli Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 2 April
1930, at 5 p.m.. Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart, in the chair.
Dr V. J. WooLLEY read a paper entitled " Some Investigations
into Poltergeists," of which a summary is printed below.
The 105th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, on Thiirsday, 5 June
1930, at 5 p.m., Mrs Henry Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr W. H. Salter read a report on " The Recent Congress at
Athens," of which a brief summary is printed below.
SOME INVESTIGATIONS INTO POLTERGEISTS.^
By Dr V. J. Woolley.
The term Poltergeist has been used for a long time to describe a
particular kind of supposed haunting of a house or a person, a
haunting which is noisy and often mischievous in character and
which may sometimes result in a good deal of damage to property,
particularly property which is at all fragile or easily destructible.
Whether or not such disturbances are ever really caused by
supernormal agencies I do not propose here to inquire. I am only
concerned with a limited mmiber of cases which have occurred during
the last few years and which have been examined by representatives
of the Society, and in none of these has it appeared necessary to
assume that any supernormal agency was concerned. I propose to
give some account of the details of these cases as they were first
reported and as they appeared on examination, and finally to offer
some suggestions as to the motives which led the various people
concerned to act as they did.
The first case came to our notice early in 1928. The house con-
cerned is situated in South West London and the disturbances
gained an immense notoriety in the press at the time.
The family consisted of an aged father, his three daughters and
a^son, all between 30 and 40, and a boy of 14, the son of one of the
daughters. The disturbances had begun some months previously
by the throwing into the back garden and against the back windows
of the house of various small hard objects such as coal and potatoes.
I do not propose to put forward any view as to the agency involved,
since it could only be a surmise, but there seemed to be several
different groups of people who had the opportunity and, in varying
degrees, a motive.
^ Summary of a paper read to a Private Meeting of the Society, 2 April 1930.
July 1930 Some Investigations into Poltergeists 105
After about a month of these external disturbances similar things
began to happen indoors, directed mainly against the old father
who, wherever he went, was followed by showers of coal, soda and
potatoes. He became so terrified that he wore his hat and overcoat
all day and sometimes took refuge under the kitchen table.
On Christmas Day 1927, the family appealed to the police who
paid several visits to the house at intervals. As soon as a police-
man entered the house the disturbances ceased, but generally began
again when he left.
Towards the middle of January 1928 several pieces of furniture
were broken by falling, no one being able to say how the falls were
brought about. Other statements that were made to us were that
an attache case flew across the kitchen without being touched and
that some freshly ironed garments left the chair on which they had
been placed, floated through the air and settled on another chair
without becoming unfolded. Unfortunately, nothing approaching
these phenomena took place after we arrived, and, without going
further into details of this part of the case, it may be said that noth-
ing was witnessed by us which could not have been brought about
by normal means . Who were the persons actually concerned in these
major phenomena was never properly cleared up. We formed the
opinion that several different people were concerned and that they
were actuated by different motives, but as there is no conclusive
evidence against any of them it seems better not to publish charges
which must be speculative and might involve injustice to innocent
persons.
We were, however, able through the very careful and prolonged
observations of my collaborator, Mrs Brackenbury, to obtain definite
knowledge as to the part played, in at any rate the later and minor
disturbances, by the boy. Those observations consisted in a de-
tailed though imobtrusive watching of his movements during every
moment that he was on the premises. By this means she was able
to satisfy herself that all the disturbances she witnessed could have
been produced by him, and that his actions were consistent with
the view that he was producing them. Further support was given
to this view by many details connected with the nature and source
of the objects thrown and their appearance afterwards.
Just after the reports of this case had appeared in the Press a
rather similar series of events occurred at a farm in Kent. The
disturbances were not nearly so prolonged or so serious but were
exaggerated to a fantastic degree by various neighbours. The farm
was visited by Mr Lambert, and Mr O'Dell on behalf of the Society,
and thoTigh no abnormal occurrence took place during their visit
they were able to get a report of what had actually happened. From
this it seems fairly certain that the farmer's son was the cause of the
G 2
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1930
disturbances which had been described to them, and there can be
little doubt that his actions Were due to the prominence given by
the newspapers to the case I first described.
The next case which came to our notice was that of an alleged
boy medium at a small mining town in Wales. The alleged pheno-
mena took place partly, though not exclusively, at sittings, and were
supposed to be due to the spirit of the boy's deceased brother. In
some respects, however, the facts are very comparable with those
of the first case described : the boys were both at about the same
period of bodily development and they had no brothers or sisters
of at all similar age. It is further a noteworthy fact that both boys,
when told that they had been seen to produce the phenomena by
normal means, replied that they did not remember doing it but
showed no resentment and made no denial.
The last case which I propose to mention was in the house of a
retired policeman in Huntingdonshire. The family consisted of a
father, mother and a 15-year old son. Mrs Brackenbury spent
some days with them and was able to observe the boy throwing
objects at his father and producing various other disturbances.
In all these cases one of the most striking features is the extra-
ordinary credulity of the adult members of the families concerned.
In the last case quoted this credulity on the part of the father seemed
to one of his own friends to be so extreme that he suspected the
father and son were in league to produce the phenomena together.
I think that this unwillingness to admit deception can be explained
partly by a desire to shield the boy and partly by a natAiral dislike
to the feeling of having been made a fool of.
But what seems to me to be of more interest than the attitude
of the fathers is the cause for the morbid behaviour of the boys,
and it is my object to try to discover what common elements if any
existed in these various cases in order to get some information as
to the motives involved. It is perhaps premature to make any
generalisation from observations on three or four cases, and I should
like my guesses to be regarded only as tentative suggestions which
may be thought of when future cases occur, and then modified or
discarded as the facts demand.
In the first place each of these boys had reached an age when he
had ceased to be a child and had not become a man. They were all
adolescents, and, as the reports show, they were all unusually nervous
and unstable adolescents. They were subject to nervous tics, sense-
less laughter, jerky movements, all the signs of a badly controlled
nervous system. That is a common feature of most of these
poltergeist children and has been described before.
In the second place each of them was in effect an only child. They
had no companions of their own age and lived mainly with adults.
July 1930 Some Investigations into Poltergeists 107
Thirdly, each of them was to an unusual degree in conflict with
these adults. It is safe to say that every child on growing up finds
itself, at various times, oppressed by its guardians who do not
recognise its independence and maturity so soon as it thinks they
should. The production of these disturbances forms a most effec-
tive means of making a child an important member of the house-
hold. If the boy resents being treated too much as a child it would
be hard to devise a better revenge or compensation than an active
poltergeist activity can offer. Not only does he become important
to outsiders, but what is of far greater value he becomes important
to himself in feeling that he is outwitting those very adults who think
him still a child. In each of these cases I think there is ground for
saying that a position of this kind existed. Future cases alone will
show if it can be regarded as a widespread factor.
THE RECENT CONGRESS AT ATHENS.i
By W. H. Salter.
Any of our Members who could have taken their Easter holiday in
Athens this year, and omitted to do so, missed the chance of their
lives. The delights of Greece in April are too well known to require
recapitulation. In the present year there were two special attrac-
tions : the celebrations of the Centenary of Greek independence,
and the Fourth International Congress for Psychical Research.
The Congress, over which Dr Driesch presided with great tact,
was in every respect most successful. On the scientific side it was
fully up to the standard of its predecessors : the business meetings,
which are a necessary part of all Congresses, passed off without the
slightest friction : and on the social side, thanks to the admirable
arrangements made by Dr Tanagra and our other Greek hosts, it
easily surpassed its predecessors. It would be impossible to speak
too highly of the hospitality lavished on us. The programme in-
cluded excursions to many interesting and beautiful places in Athens
and the neighbourhood. Everyone who attended the Congress must
have come away with many delightful memories.
The social side of these Congresses has a repercussion on their
scientific value. In psychical research the personal equation counts
for a great deal. Half an hour spent in mild conviviality with one of
our foreign confreres will give one a better idea of his general ability,
candour, and critical faculty, than a week spent reading his books.
There is moreover a risk that, if Congresses were not held periodic-
ally, psychical research might develop on gradually divergent lines
^ Brief summary of a report read to a Private Meeting of the Society, 5 June
1930.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1930
in different countries, until at length, an impassable gulf was estab-
lished in method, subject-matter, and terminology.
There is already an appreciable dift'erence between psychical re-
search of the English and Continental types. In some respects
psychical research has a wider meaning, in others a more restricted,
in England than on the Continent. Several^ of the papers read at
Athens, however interesting in themselves, hardly came within
what we should consider the limits of our subject. Generally speak-
ing, theory plays a much larger part on the Continent than with us.
The British bias against theorising, especially when based on a rather
slight foundation of fact, is probably healthy. But there would be
no harm if the eminent philosophers and psychologists in our Society
would from time to time enlighten us by explaining what relation
the facts we seek to accumulate bear to current theories in philo-
sophy and psychology.
There are, on the other hand, several matters in which Continental
psychical research seems, judged by our standards, to fall short.
Much less attention is paid abroad to spontaneous mental pheno-
mena of the kind collected m Phantasms of the Living : they presum-
ably occur with the same frequency in all countries, but are not
followed up as keenly and carefully as with us. I do not think
that we are likely to see in any Continental country elaborate
investigations of the kind carried out in England (and also in
America) of mental mediums of the type of Mrs Piper, Mrs Leonard
or Mrs Warren Elliott : that type of medium seems to be for some
reason an Anglo-American speciality. Again, the more abstruse
problems of automatic writing are little understood outside our
own country.
There is a welcome revival of interest abroad in experimental
telepathy and clairvoyance. Experiments in long-distance tele-
pathy have been undertaken by groups in Paris, Vienna, Warsaw
and Athens, but in technique these fall a good deal short of the
standards with which we are familiar.
These shortcomings are certainly not due to the lack of individual
ability on the part of Continental students, many of whom hold
high academic rank, but to the absence of Societies with an organisa-
tion, standards and traditions comparable to oiu- own. It is ac-
cordingly no matter for surprise that suggestions have been made
for the formation of an International Society for Psychical Research.
No concrete proposal has. yet been made, but the idea is one of
which we are likely to hear a good deal in the next few years. If an
International Society could be formed to supplement, and not to
supersede the Societies already existing in different countries, there
are many useful tasks it might undertake, including the placing on
a more secure and permanent footing of the Congress organisation,
July 1930 The Recent Congress at Athens 109
the formulation of a proper Glossary (the need for which has several
times been urged by our President, Dr Prince), and the standardisa-
tion of methods of control for all controllable phenomena.
As stated in the June Journal, the Transactions of the Athens
Congress will be printed in England, at the price of 7s. 6d. The
papers will be printed in the languages in which they were read
(English, French and German), and the volume will be one which
every serious student must wish to possess.
The next Congress will be held, on the invitation of our Society,
in London in the autumn of 1932, the year of our Jubilee. It should
be a point of honour with all of us to see that the London Congress
does not in any respect fall below the high standard set at Athens.
IN DEFENCE OF D. D. HOME.
By Hereward Carrington.
It may seem strange that a defence of physical phenomena should
be forthcoming from one who, like myself, has generally been
regarded as one of its severest critics. However, I feel that the
truth concerning these historic sittings should precede all other
considerations, and that, if a critic has overstepped the bounds in
dealing with certain recorded evidence, his attention should be
called to that fact, and any injudicious statements on his part
corrected. This I feel can justly be done in the present instance.
No sincere student of psychic phenomena should resent the truth,
no matter how unpleasant that may be. Actual historic documents
are always welcomed, and because of that I feel that Dr Barthez's
letter regarding Home should by all means be published, and should
be known to researchers generally. The fault I find in Count
Solovovo's paper is in the extravagant importance he attaches to this
document, and the remainder of his article, in which he attempts
to criticise Home's sittings generally, and to show that they might
perhaps all have been of the same nature, and that all his phenomena
were (probably) fraudulent. This conclusion is, I think, absolutely
unjustified.
First of all, however, a few words regarding the famous Barthez
letter itself. We read :
"... The thing is very simple. Mr Hume
wears thin shoes, easy to take ofJ and put on ; he also has, I believe,
cut socks which leave the toes free. At the appropriate moment
he takes of? one of his shoes and with his foot pulls a dress here, a
dress there, rings a bell, knocks one way and another, and, the thing
done, quickly puts his shoe on again. . .
." This sounds exactly
like a dogmatic statement as to how a certain phenomenon was pro-
duced, made by a man who had not actually seen it so produced,
llO journal of Society for Psychical Hesearch July 1930
but who imagined that it must have been so accomplished. As a
matter of fact, that is precisely the case ! Dr Barthez did not
himself see anything of the kind. In support of his statement, he
quotes a certain " M. Morio," who, he says, has " made of it a fine
record, written and signed, with all the details necessary to establish
the authenticity of his discovery." Yet this extraordinary document
appears never to have been published ! Where is this first-hand
statement from the witness in question ? Surely it should^ have
been produced to back up so grave a charge. As a matter of fact
I think it highly improbable that Home wore low shoes of the kind ;
every photograph and drawing I have seen of Home shows him
wearing high boots.
Coming now to his criticism of ,the existing evidence, Count
Solovovo makes much of the fact that Home frequently moved
freely about the room, lay on the floor, moved furniture, etc. But
he fails to tell us that no phenomena were produced at such times,
and that manifestations were only noted when Home ceased his
" rampaging " about the room, and again joined the circle. What
earthly difference does it make what Home did, if he was properly
controlled during the actual production of phenomena ? Providing
he was not obviously preparing some subsequent trick, I cannot
see what possible bearing all this has on his results. In the vast
majority of his sittings, no such perambulations were noted.
Count Solovovo toys with the idea of an accomplice who might,
at times, have been smuggled into the room ! Is it contended that
such an accomplice was invariably necessary ? Not at all, it is
virtually admitted that the introduction of an accomplice would
have been impossible on most occasions. Then why bother to
introduce one at all ? If Home could fraudulently produce his
phenomena without the assistance of a confederate, why should he
ever introduce one I Unless a theory is more or less inclusive and
explanatory, it is surely superfluous to introduce it.
In an earlier criticism, Count Solovovo practically admitted that
many of Home's phenomena could not be explained by fraud, and
attempted to show that hallucination might explain many of these
facts {Proceedings, xxi. 436-82). Now, nothing is said about hal-
lucination, and a resort is again made to possible methods of fraud !
Which of these alternatives does Count Solovovo champion ? Or
is it a combination of both of them ?
It is also quite beside the mark to raise questions as to Home's
private life, his morals, his social standing, his financial transactions
etc. All these may have been as shady as you please ;
they do not
at all affect the central problem : Did supernormal phenomena ever
occur in his presence ? Comit Solovovo makes the point (quite
rightly, I think) that excellent social position should not prevent
July 1930 In Defence of D. D. Home 111
the imposition of the severest physical checks and tests. On the
other hand, I should contend that, no matter how " low " that status
may be, supernormal phenomena obtahied under the strictest con-
ditions of control necessitate their acceptance. The whole crux of
the matter lies in the actual conditions under which manifestations
are produced.
Count Solovovo says (p. 259) that "... we are justified in thinking
that, if Sir William Crookes's notes had been as full as Lord Adare's
we should have found in them, now and then, indications suggesting
a possible natural explanation of occurrences which as described
seem to exclude it. . .
." It is nearly always possible to pick holes
in records of sittings, in this manner, at a distance. The critic
notices that such-and-such a point is not adequately covered in the
report. He promptly assumes that such-and-such might have
happened at the time, and then as promptly concludes that it did
so happen ! The investigator making the report, however, might
have a very clear picture in his mind as to precisely what happened
during that period, and know very well that nothing of the sort
imagined did in fact take place.
May I venture to ask Count Solovovo one question ? Does he
believe that one single genuine physical phenomenon has ever
occurred ? If so, why should not such phenomena occur over and
over again—a hundred, a million times ? If they have been noted
in the presence of one medium, why not in the presence of another
—
provided, of course, the conditions were such as to render their
genuine character highly probable 1 But perhaps Count Solovovo
does not believe that a single genuine phenomenon has ever been
observed ? I can see no valid reason to suppose that supernormal
physical phenomena did not occur in Home's sittings, where the
testimony seems unanimous and overwhelming. If supernormal
phenomena occurred in Home's presence, it is to my mind pre-
posterous to endeavour, at this late date, to show that they did not,
by picking a few minor flaws in the recorded testimony, and by
postulating accomplices, hallucination, fraud, etc., as explanatory
hypotheses. It is possible that Home did trick upon occasion, and
even that he was caught in such tricks. But the attempt to dispose
of the whole mass of recorded phenomena, in his case—and indirectly
of supernormal physical phenomena in general—by these means,
seems to me a totally unwarranted procedure.
11 2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1930
CORRESPONDENCE.
I. A Deferred Impression During a Trance Sitting.
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir, —May I venture to make a few comments on the incident
described as a " Deferred Impression," an account of which, ap-
peared in the June Journal (xxvi. 90) ?
It is true that in my report on the Warren Elliott sittings I accepted
tentatively the hypothesis of " Deferred Impression," but sub-
sequent further study of the facts has caused me to feel considerable
doubt as to its applicability.
In addition to the two sittings mentioned, viz. those on 7 October
and 11 November 1926, both of which were " Sitter Present," there
were two " Absent Sitter " sittings, i.e. sittings at which Mr Mont-
gomery Smith was not present but relics contributed by him were
handed to the medium. These took place on 18 June and 16 July
1926, making four sittings in all before the date at which the incident
in question occurred. It may therefore be held that rapport was
established between the medium and Mr Montgomery Smith on
18 June at the earliest, although they did not actually meet until
7 October.
If we accept as a fact that the communications in question
referred to the period about February 1926, as Mr Montgomery
Smith's evidence tends to show, they were post-dated, as it were,
to the extent of four months, even if the earliest possible date, viz.
18 June for the establishment of rapport be taken.
That the medium should have acquired these impressions before
rapport had been established seems incredible ; it implies either
some prevision on her part as to her future sitters or else an extremely
unlikely coincidence.
Whether we accept as plausible or not the fact that the contri-
butor of the article used as a relic at the sitting was in the same
" Recently bereaved " class as Mr Montgomery Smith, led the mind
of the medium to him by association, we must presume that some-
how or other rapport was established with him on that occasion.
It seems reasonable to hold that rapport between the medium
and the sitter is a necessary condition for the transmission of im-
pressions, and the evidence which we have obtained from the Absent
Sitter sittings tends to show that the actual presence of the sitter
is not indispensable. My point is this. Given the fact of rapport,
we may attribute the supernormal knowledge exhibited by the
medium to the transmission of impressions from the sitter's mind ;
there is, therefore, no reason why that transmission should not have
taken place at the actual sitting. If it had occurred at the earliest
July 1930 Correspondence 113
date at which rapport was possible, it would still have been four
months post-dated. If it occurred at the actual sitting the post-
dating would be twelve months.
We have thus a considerable period of post-dating in any case
and it seems to me that to import the additional hypothesis of
" Deferred Impression " is a needless complication. I cannot see
that there is any greater difficulty in accepting twelve months post-
dating than four.
Why this post-dating should have occurred at all is very obscure.
That it was not simply a case of describing past incidents, such as
frequently occurs in other sittings, is clear from the wording of the
record. In one place the medium, referring to an incident, says
" This is quite recently," and in many others she uses language
which can only be taken to imply reference to the present or immedi-
ate past.
The hypothesis that it is a simple mistake in date does not seem
to be very acceptable ; the consistency with which the mistake
applies over a mmiber of disconnected incidents appears improbable.
It must not be thought that in discrediting the hypothesis of
" Deferred Impression " in this case, I am implying that it is not a
vera causa in some others ;
my only reason for regarding it as
redtmdant here is that it does not bridge the entire gap.
I fear that I cannot suggest any satisfactory explanation of the
incident but can only, with considerable diffidence, suggest that it
might be regarded as lending some slight support to the idea put
forward in my report, that an explanation of many of the phenomena
of mediumship might possibly be found in the postulation of a
modification of the temporal conditions governing the medium's
subliminal mind.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
II. Nonsense Names.
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir, —In this matter of invented names, perhaps I might add a
personal note. I write at once on noting what is perhaps a remark-
able circumstance. It is my lot frequently to be obliged to invent
names for the registration of pedigree stock ; and the names chosen
are generally " inspired " at the birth of the animals. I mean, I do
not get dictionaries or concordances and look up crackjaw names,
and then shorten them. Personally I prefer short names. My
own consists in all of seven letters—perhaps that is why I do not
care for long names.
114 Journal of Society for PsycJiical Research Jult 1930
My note is, that of 10 animals under my care at present, five have
names that " clink "—short " I " names : Tinka, Kif, Mitty, Dimseys,
Chris. Of the other five animals, Wow is usually called Kiddo,
Kirsty becomes Kiss, Mercy is Missy, and Maria is Missus. The
exception is Bralp, which is an uninspired name—I made it of
Br. Alp ( = British Alpine).
Other loved animals of various kinds in the past, horses, dogs,
cats, goats, have been Kitty, Milly, Bitty, Silly (Cecilia), Wiggy,
Piggy, the Biblet, Fish, Higgin, Prittiwhit—I could make the list
twice as long. It will be noticed that the initial letter makes no
matter in this unconsciousness selectiveness. Nor does the length
of vowel-sound suggest any association with my own name. I may
add that my chief concern with names in my life-time has been
with Wild and Pearson only.
Yours, etc.,
Ida Wild.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is, as
stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Mem-
bers and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and
Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 468.—Vol. XXVI. ..
•
. October 1930.
JOURNAL
_
'.
",,
.
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
DENISON HOUSE,
296 VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD, LONDON, S.W. i,
(Close to Victoria Station)
ON
FRIDAY, 31 October igJO, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A REPORT ON
" Experiments in Supernormal Perception at a Distance
"
{WITH LANTERN SLIDES)
WILL BE READ BY
Mr S. G. SOAL .
N.B.— Visitors will be admitled on production of an invitation card
signed by a Member or Associate. Members and Associates 7vill be
admitted on signing their names at the door.
H
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 273rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Monday, 14 July 1930, at 3.30 p.m. After
formally taking the chair. The President requested Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., to act for him during the remainder of the meeting.
There were also present : Lord Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C.,
Dr C. D. Broad, Miss Ina Jephson, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr W. Whately Smith,
Mr S. G. Soal and Dr V. J. WooUey ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Comicil were read and
signed as correct.
The Financial Statement for the half year was presented by the
Hon. Treasurer.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 175th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Small Hall
at Friends House, Euston Road, London, N.W.I, on Monday,
14 July 1930, at 5 p.m.
The President, Dr Walter Franklin Prince, delivered his
Address, which has been published as Part 115 of Proceedings.
ASLIB.
The Society's representative (Mr Besterman) on ASLIB (Associa-
tion of Special Libraries and Information Bureaux) has been elected
to the Council of that body.
OBITUARIES.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
We regret to record the death on 7 July (after the July issue of the
Journal had gone to Press) of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who became
a Member of the Society in 1893. Sir Arthur resigned his member-
ship a few months ago in circumstances known to our readers ; at
this time we wish only to pay a tribute to the manifest sincerity and
enthusiasm invariably shown by him in respect of any cause that
he had at heart.
Miss Clarissa Miles.
We regret to have to aimounce the sudden death (in August 1930)
of a valued member of the Society, Miss Clarissa Miles, who had been
a member of the Society since 1897. She had considerable psychic
October 1930 Obituaries 117
faculty, and helped Sir William Barrett with experiments in dowsing.
She stated in the first paper on her experiments on thought-
transference {Proc. xxi. 60) that she had " learnt from him to make
[her experiments! of use to outsiders by recording them fully at
the time and obtaining on the spot whatever testimony was avail-
able. In fact,"' she says, ''whatever scientific value attached to
the results of all my experiments is, I feel, entirely owing to his
constant help and guidance." The conscientious carrying out of
the standard thus set before her is characteristic of the reports of
her experiments given in Proceedings, vols, xxi and xxvii. These
experiments were in thought-transference at a distance and were
mostly made between herself and her friend Miss Hermione Eams-
den. They aimed high, agent and percipient being in different
places and always many miles apart, and as was to be expected they
by no means always succeeded, nor when there was success was it
complete. But there were some striking successes and the success
on the whole seems certainly beyond chance, so that the reports
are a valuable contribution to the work of the Society. Miss Miles
had the interests of the Society much at heart and from time to time
introduced new members.
E. M. S.
CASE OF A PRESENTIMENT ACTED ON.
P. 300
We have received the following narrative through the Countess of
Balfour, to whom the circumstances were described by Mr Eames,
of whom she is a patient, within a fortnight of the occurrence He
afterwards very kindly wrote out this account, incorporating in it
the answers to some questions we asked.
Narrative Statement of Mr E. G. Eames.
On Saturday May 2f:th 1930, 1 was driving as usual from St Albans
to London, along a road I knew exceedingly well, for I had traversed
it hundreds and hundreds of times. My car is a fast one, I drive
fastly, for I am always in a hurry, and on this particular morning
I had some five operations to perform in London before lunch.
But a preceding car had for long prevented me from accelerating
to a really quick speed. It was a Jowett car, being driven carefully
and quietly by a typical family man, in a typical leism-ely manner.
The Father, Mother, and kiddie all enjoying the run, one assumes.
In the ordinary way I should have passed by, as I pass by hundreds
of similar tourists and forgotten them—miles back. But on this
occasion I absolutely could not pass. It was not the car that
prevented me. On the contrary it would have been easy to have
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobku 1930
got by, and I wanted to get by, but something, some exceedingly
strong something, insinuated into my subconscioixs brain that an
accident was going to occur. It was definitely a force quite apart
from shall I say earthly impressions. It was in no ways concerned
with the driving of the man in front. Actually he was driving very
well. It certainly wasn't nerves, it was a very real presentiment
that a crash was going to occur and a warning not to approach too
near. For five miles then I hesitated behind this slow-going old
car, blaming my foolishness, but very much aware all the time of a
holding back. Soon, however, I was to be very grateful indeed for
this intimation for when we reached a point in the Watling St.,
between Radlett and St Albans the looked for accident occurred.
A lorry preceded the Jowett which was immediately in front of
me. The three of us slowly making our ways to London. On the
opposite side of the road, a saloon car had stopped. Suddenly the
door of the stationary car opened, the huge lorry, obliterating the
entire view of the road could not quite get by. Without warning he
stopped abruptly. The poor little Jowett went on. Turned out,
found his road completely blocked in every direction, braked
violently, skidded and crashed first into the back of the lorry and
then onto a brick wall.
And for five miles I had known very distinctly that it was going
to happen. So very much so that during that time I had felt very
inclined to go up and mention my presentiment to the driver of the
little family car.
All that remains to say is that being immediately behind I must
in the ordinary way have been smashed up too, but had kept just far
enough back to be able to come to a standstill immediately beside
the wrecked car.
I attended to the little child, who was badly cut, and rushed both
he and his Mother to the Orthopaedic Hospital at Stanmore where
I left him in the hands of the surgeons.
A local police officer reviewing all the details of the accident later,
after measurements, etc. had been confirmed was quite unable to
understand at all how I had managed myself to avoid being injured,
or at least concerned in the smash, and when I rather reticently
explained that I gathered something was going to happen, and this
in spite of the care of the driver, he, knowing my usual speed one
assumes, said " It must have been a blooming strong presentment
for you to have waited behind." Which quite frankly, I feel you
will agree, was that.
This is the third time in my life that I have felt these strong
compelling forces or influences warning me of danger, and always
I have been afterwards very deeply grateful that I have been
fore-warned.
October 1930 Correspondence 119
CORRESPONDENCE.
A Correction further Developed.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In the May number of the Journal you printed a letter from
me in which I point out good reasons for concluding that a i\Ir
Balfour whose experience as a scryer is described by Mr Andrew
Lang in an introduction to Mr N. W. Thomas's book on Crystal-
gazing, was not, as stated in the International Psychic Gazette for
last May, the late Lord Balfour. In its September number the
same Gazette publishes a letter from Mrs Spoer (Miss Goodrich Freer)
explaining how well a crystal vision by the same scryer appears to
have corresponded with a house she inhabited in the nineties of
the last centiiry, and how she had talked over this with the late Mr
Andrew Lang. The Editor of the Gazette seems to think this letter
establishes at first hand something showing errors in my letter of
May. Why he thinks so I cannot imagine. The only passages I
have foimd in Mrs Spoer's letter showing disagreement with mine
(which I should gather she cannot have read) are those in which she
says, " I cannot question the fact that '
Mr Bailie '
is intended for
the late Lord Balfour," and subsequently assumes this so-called fact
as correct. This no doubt is a first hand statement of her opinion,
but on what that opinion is based I do not know. She does not
appear ever to have met the scryer in question.
After writing the above it occurred to me that the original
documents with names concerning the case of the crystal vision of
the lady making tea were probably in the archives of the S.P.R.,
for the case was printed in our Journal: for July 1895 (vii. 124).
Accordingly we looked them up and there, sure enough, were
independent accounts signed with the real names of the scryer, his
sister and the lady seen, who also gave their real addresses. The
names were not for publication, but neither that of the scryer, nor
of his sister nor of the lady seen was Balfour. The case of Mrs
Spoer's house is not I think, recorded in our archives, but it was
mentioned in a paper by Mr Lang published in our Proceedings,
XV. 50 when the pseudonym of Lesley is used for the scryer. Mr
Lang describes Mr Lesley as " known to the world as a man of
business, a golfer and a composer." I have ascertained from a lady
who knows him that this description fits the scryer in the tea-
making case, so we may safely assume that Lesley and Balfour were
pseudonyms used by Mr Lang at different times for the same person
{whom at another time, see his Book of Dreams and Ghosts, pp. 59-60,
ie called Baillie). Both the scryer and his sister are still living.
As I explained in my previous letter. Lord Balfour in talking to
his family or friends about psychical matters, frequently and
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
emphatically expressed his regret that he personally had never had
any psychical experiences.
Yours, etc.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
A Correction.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—It appears that I was mistaken—through no fault of my
own—when saying in my Notes on Periodicals in the May Journal
(p. 86) that the accusation brought forward again.st Mrs Bradley,
d pwpos of the Genoa sittings with Valiantine, of having simulated
a certain " phenomenon was withdrawn. Mr Bradley asserts this
(p. 64 of the booklet Die Sitzungen mit Valiantine in Berlin) in
connection with a talk he had with Signor Rossi in London in June
1929. But Herr R. Lambert, of Stuttgart, has communicated to
me valuable evidence bearing on the same sittings, from which
evidence it follows that as late as on the 8th of November 1929
Signor Castellani reiterated his statements concerning Mrs Bradley
in a letter to Signor Rossi (Signor Castellani being one of the sitters
and Mrs Bradley's neighbour) ; a copy of which letter was forwarded
by Signor Rossi (then in London) to Mr Bradley on the 12th of
November 1929.
The above lines are intended to correct an involuntarily mistaken
statement.
Yours, etc.,
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
.
Fire-walking in Perak.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In the last number of the Journal to reach me. I was
surprised to see some doubt apparently thrown on the practise of
" fire-walking in various countries.
As the " fire-walking " ceremony is of regular occurrence among
Tamil (Hindu) estate workers in this country [Perak, Malay Penin-
sula], possibly an account of such a ceremony might be of interest.
Nature of Fire. A shallow pit about 25' x 6' x 3' is dug (always
of the same approximate size). This is filled with wood which is
lighted and burnt all over. When a residue of glowing charcoal,
without flame, is left, the " fire " is ready for walking. Walkers
traverse the fixe along its long axis—25 feet.
Palliatives. At the end of the pit opposite to that from which
the walkers start, a smaller, deeper pit is filled with water. The
walkers leap into this at the end of their traverse.
October 1930 Fire- Walking in Perak 121
The average coolie has never worn shoes and has soles like boot
leather. I am informed by an estate manager that coolies who work
indoors show much more susceptibility to the pain engendered than,
those whose work is on the estate. I have examined the feet of
some dozens of walkers after the ceremony and never seen the
slightest sign of damage by fire.
Prelwiinaries. Those who are about to walk march round the
fire, dance to the drum and cymbal and work themselves up into a
state of excitement.
A priest I saw recently gave a preliminary address whilst standing
with bare feet on the upturned edge of a sacrificial knife. (A goat
is usually sacrificed by decapitation at the beginning.) He balanced
himself by holding on to the heads of two men standing there,
holding the knife upright, but put no weight upon them.
Additional Features. Many of the walkers have needles about a
foot long stuck through the tongue and into the arms. At least
one walker doing extra penance is usually seen with a symmetrical
arrangement of darts about three feet long stuck into the back,
chest and arms. The majority of these are removed by assistants
as he stands cooling his feet in the water after walking. I recently
saw some of the darts being removed afterwards but coidd detect
no bleeding.
Method of walking. Some stroll across, some walk rapidly and
some run. The priest usually strolls. Some who have attended
the ceremony with the intention of walking cannot pluck up courage
at the last minute. I have seen a man walk round the pit three
times on specially constructed sandals filled with upturned nails,
before starting to walk the fire.
Many of the walkers "throw fits'" on arrival at the other end,
foaming at the mouth, stiffening the body and shrieking.
All walkers precipitate themselves before the idol in the neigh-
bouring temple immediately after walking.
Purpose of the ceremony. The main idea is to show man's in-
vulnerability by the forces of nature if only he will display faith
and concentrate his mind on not being hurt. There is also an
element of penance for past sins. An amusing point is the belief
which Christian Tamils, some of them of Christian families for three
or four generations, have in the same power of man over nature.
I have never heard of a Christian walking the fire, but there is no
doubt that they display a great deal of pride in the fact that their
pagan brothers come unscathed through the ordeal.
Yours, etc.,
G. R. M. Millar.
122 Jo7trnal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
[The reference in the first paragraph is to a note in the Journal for
May last (xxvi. 83) by Count Perovsky, in justice to whom it must
be pointed out that he cast no doubts on the facts of fire-walking,
as suggested by Mr Millar.
—
Ed.'\
A PSEUDO-BOOKTEST.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In Miss Jephson's " book test," Journal, Jime 1930 (xxvi.
98), she didn't give full instructions about finding the book, as she
omitted to say whether it was the third shelf counting from the top
or from the bottom of the book case. I have had a good many
book tests given through various sources and sometimes I am told
to count from the top and sometimes from the bottom. It would
be interesting to hear whether the " word bridge or something
connected with the word bridge " occurs when the shelf is counted
both ways.
Yours, etc.,
L. D. Dewar.
[Miss Jephson writes : Following Lady Dewar's letter I have
again consulted Dr Kendrick, and it now appears that there was
originally a misunderstanding. The word "bridge" was found by
Dr Kendrick on the top shelf, and not on the third. My original
criticism therefore loses some point. Curiously enough, however,
Dr Kendrick has now looked up the appropriate place counting from
the bottom of the bookcase, and has there also found the word
" bridge " (in a school edition of Cesar Birotteau). It seems, there-
fore, that the evidential value of such a test is still further reduced.]
REVIEWS.
Theodore Besterman, Some Modern Mediums. 8vo, pp. xi. 189,
24 portraits and diagrams. London : Methuen and Co. Ltd.,
1930. Price 7s. 6d. net.
This book consisting as it does of critical studies of five mediums,
of whom four are well-known, is unlikely to please everybody and
it is, indeed, doubtful whether it will wholly please anybody. None
the less it is the kind of book of which more might well be published,
for it contains the product of much careful and impartial digestion
of material which is scarcely accessible to any ordinary student.
The five "Modern Mediums " selected for study are Mrs Piper,
Frau Silbert, " Eva C," Mme Kahl-Toukholka and " Margery."
Of these essays the first is perhaps the least satisfactory. Mrs
Piper, although happily she is still with us and may yet add valuable
material to her great output, is already a classic. To select a small
October 1930 Reviews 123
sample of evidential matter as Mr Besterman does and to discuss it,
however legitimately, as of a kind incapable even in quantity of
establishing survival is, one feels, to run the risk of conveying to
the average reader a false, or at least a wholly inadequate idea of
Mrs Piper's importance.
The paper on Frau Silbert is in some respects the most important
m the book. It is based on firsthand observation of this very well-
known medium and while written with scrupulous fairness will be
considered by most reasonable people as an exposure just as damning
as those of a more spectacular character. Personally, I consider
the shrewd study and reporting of " indicia "—to use the author's
own term— at least as proper and effective a way of drawing
attention to fraudulent practices as the cruder methods of snatching
and switching on lights at awkward moments. But just as we are
told that the latter are liable to do untold harm to the medium so,
It IS safe to prophecy, will Frau Silbert's supporters protest that Mr
Besterman's procedure is
^'
unfair " that " all suspicious circum-
stances should be reported at the time,'' etc., etc. But I fear that
such protests will do little to rehabilitate Frau Silbert's claims to
consideration.
Mr Besterman's opinion of Marthe Beraud alias " Eva C." is
equally unfavourable, although in this case he writes on a basis of
the extensive literature of the subject and not from personal
experience. This literature is too complex even to summarise here,
but I think that few students, if any, will differ from Mr Besterman's
adverse conclusion inasmuch as the quite fantastic phenomena rest
so largely on the bona fides of persons who are either demonstrably
bad observers and reporters or, by the very nature of the case, not
necessarily above suspicion. The fact that a certain important
relevant matter regarding the late Dr Geley's experiments with this
medium was found after his death by his successors at the Institut
Metapsychique at Paris and that these authorities refuse permission
to pubhsh this material, is in itself highly suspicious and should give
even the most ardent apologist cause for thought.
Mr Besterman is at his most interesting in the fourth essay,
when he describes his personal experiences with Mme Kahl-'
Toukholka of Paris, a lady who is not a spiritualistic " medium "
but gives professionally what may be described as " consultative'"
sittings to her clients, in the course of which certain phenomena of
apparently supernormal origin takes place. Thus, she gives
clairvoyant descriptions of clients' friends, etc. ; divines names
thought of or written down ; answers questions mentally pro-
ponaded and the like ;
and, in particular, sometimes succeeds in
producing on the skin of her forearm designs or letters in red corre-
sponding to those thought of or WTitten by enquirers present.
124 Jottrnal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
Mr Besterman is on the whole favourably impressed by these
phenomena, although he observes a most judicious restraint as
regards both his descriptions and conclusions. Nor is he an
observer whose views are to be as lightly rejected as those of
uninstructed members of the general public.
None the less the general impression gained is that of trickery and
this is not weakened by closer study. As Mr Besterman is the first
to admit, the personal " atmosphere is unsatisfactory ; the use
of special cards on which questions are printed, the fact that
M. Kahl's absence notably affects residts in an adverse sense, Mme
Kahl's frequent absences from the room, etc., etc., are all suggestive
of traditional " billet reading " methods and kindred tricks. The
same applies to the clever and convincing but quite standardised
ways in which the medium " mixes successes, partial successes
and failures producing—precisely as intended—the reaction,
" Surely if she had known the name, she would have got it quite
right instead of nearly right." The effects so produced are very
persuasive but the degree of psychological insight required to
foresee this is not high.
Again the test with a drawn diagram given in p. 113 is a stock
trick. It is true that as described by Mr Besterman it cannot be
done ; but Mr Besterman's description is exactly that which
the normal person ivould give (and does give) when the trick is
performed by any competent prestidigitator. Similar resemblances
are to be noted throughout and although it would be too much to
conclude that all the phenomena observed are tricks, we should
be chary in attributing them to any other cause pending much more
detailed evidence backed by the observations of a competent
magician.
In particular it is to be noted that a period of some five days
elapsed between the first (unproductive) sitting and the second.
Without postulating any elaborate secret service organisation, it
seems not unreasonable to suppose that an astute professional might
obtain a certain amount of information about a prospective and
important visitor during this period. The fact that he was married
and the Christian name of his wife could, for instance, be obtained
at the cost of a shilling and an hour's visit to Somerset House.
The last paper deals with a very limited portion of the mediumship
of the celebrated " Margery," namely the so-called " cross-corre-
spondences " claimed to have been effected between her and other
mediums.
They depend for their value entirely on the " fraud proofness,"
notably as regards times, of the conditions under which they took
place and Mr Besterman has no difficulty in showing that fraud
might easily have occurred had those concerned been so minded.
October 1930 Hevieivs 125
The book, which includes complete bibliographies, a useful
glossary and does not omit an index, is agreeably WTitten and
should certainly be read by all who wish to keep au courant with
the trend of up-to-date criticism.
W. Whately Smith.
Harry Price, Rudi Schneider : a Scientific Examination of his
Mediumship. 8vo, pp. xv. 239, 12 diagrams and ill. London :
Methuen and Co., Ltd., 1930. Price 10s. 6d. net.
This book consists of a detailed account by Mr Price of the results
obtained in the course of two visits of Rudi Schneider to Mr Price's
laboratory in the spring and autumn of 1929. The descriptions
are clear and the illustrations well reproduced. Mr Price is con-
vinced of the supernormal character of the phenomena observed,
and advances strong arguments in support of his belief. A good
deal of his argimient is devoted to showing the superiority of the
electrical method of control first applied to the medium by Krall,
and extended to the sitters by Mr Price, over what he calls the
" obsolete " method of hand control on which we are accustomed
to rely. The control of the sitters becomes of especial importance
in the Schneider sittings because the unusually complete restrictions
to which both the brothers readily submit makes the exclusion of a
confederate sitter particularly desirable, since there is thus a chance
of a really conclusive test. It is therefore worth while to consider
in some detail whether the electrical method ought really to super-
sede the older one. It has so far as I can see two advantages. It is
a check on a sitter letting go of his neighbour's hand unconsciously
through excitement or fatigue, and it informs the whole circle
that the sitter's metallic gloves (not their hands as Mr Price claims)
are in proper contact. Apart from these two points, it seems to
give no greater security against fraud than the older method. If
two adjacent sitters wish to free a hand, it is only necessary for one
of them to pull the glove of! the hand which he is holding. As long
as he grasps this glove the hand which ought to be in it will be free
and no one will be the wiser, and I do not think there would be
any change in the tell-tale light. One sitter alone can free his feet
by connecting his metal floor plates by a piece of wire.
The electrical control has in addition certain disadvantages.
In the first place it is liable to go wrong and to cause an interruption
of the sitting through a broken wire or some similar mishap. In the
second place, the more apparatus and mechanical appliances are
introduced, the more sources of error there must be, and the more
opportunities for misdirection by anyone who aims at deception.
I have of course no reason to suppose that any deception took place
in these sittings, but I do not feel that the electrical control excludes
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
it any better than the older methods which Mr Price describes as
obsolete.
The phenomena obtained were similar to those which Rudi
Schneider has given elsewhere. They inchided the movement of
objects, the apparent materialisation of a hand and the usual cold
breezes. Mr Price's recording thermograph also enabled him to
note the same inexplicable fall of temperature that occurred in some
of the Stella C. sittings.
The plan of the .seance-room in Plate 2 would have been increased
in value if it had been drawn to scale throughout.
V. J. W.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metajjsychique, May-Jime 1930.
Dr Osty has a paper on " La Vision de Soi," in which several cases
are mentioned which, I may add, seem to have nothing to distin-
guish them from purely subjective anthropomorphic hallucinations.
M. de Vesme discusses at length " Paranormal Diagnostic in
History." Dr Sollier's work Les phenomenes d'autoscopie is specially
referred to. This term is applied here to the faculty alleged to be
possessed by some somnambulists to " see " the internal organs of
their own body, as to the reality of which Dr SoUier seems to have
no doubt. M. de Vesme is, very sensibly, by no means convinced
of the infallibility of the somnambulists when describing other
people's ailments. Some people, by no means utterly incredulous,
will be inclined to express themselves still more cautiously.
Dr Carl Bruck describes a " case of spontaneous telepathy
between Berlin and Paris," the supposed telepathic transmission
being only a more or less strong impression. I wish such impressions
were as a rule given a wide berth as evidence, much as I am inclined
to believe in phantasms of the dying, and possibly even of the dead.
In the Chronique we are informed of the death of M. de Sainville,
a painter intensely interested in " metapsychics." We have then
briefly mentioned quite a batch of " hauntings " all over France.
None seems to have been investigated in proper fashion. Further
reference is made to the apparatus invented under the auspices of
M. Rutot of Brussels, which M. Maire is inclined to think merely a
" big soap bubble."
The number closes with another batch of cases of varying value,
chiefly communicated by M. Richet and entitled " Monitions of
Death."
Revue Metapsychique, July-August 1930.
Dr Osty has a long paper on " two strange artists " : Mme
Marguerite Burnat-Provins and Mme Juliette Hervy, the former
October 1930 Notes on Periodicals 127
painting, the latter writing, under .supposed spirit-influence. In
both cases the complete good faith of the artists must be assumed,
which seems to me to detract somewhat from the value of their
performances, though in the case of Mme Juliette Hervy Dr Osty
seems to be of opinion that conscious production of the same quality
under the same conditions is impossible.
M. R. WarcoUier discusses " Telepathy and Imagination " and
attempts to show how in experimental telepathy the impact is
sometimes distorted by the percipient's fancy. He may be right
and the fact, if real, is of interest : but I feel bound to protest
emphatically in advance against the possible tendency of inter-
preting in this connection as successes most undoubted failures.
In fact M. WarcoUier's paper does not seem to me to be altogether
free from such a tendency : thus in one case where the agent (M. W.)
wishes to transfer a black point in a white background, one of the
percipients draws a man fastened to a rope and being lowered into
the bottom of a well. In M. Warcollier's opinion the message has
been " disfigured," the percipient's conscious imagination working
too much ; to me it is of course a downright failure.
M. Andry Bourgeois writes on M. Charles Henry's work and its
bearing on the problem of survival. M. Henry (born in 1859 and
recently deceased) was during 34 years director of the Sorbonne
laboratory on the Physiology of sensations." He applied mathe-
matical methods to the solution of the chief problems of physics and
biology and is apparently believed by some to have proved in this
way the existence of a soul and its survival of bodily death. M.
Andry Bourgeois himself admits however that whether M. Charles
Henry was a precursor of genius or whether his theories do not
conform to our experience, it is for the future to decide definitely
(p. 346) ; for the present therefore these very abstruse speculations
do not by any means seem to me of cardinal importance for our
researches.
BuUetin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, April
1930.
This number opens with a paper by M. Rutot, the President,
describing an apparatus devised by a certain L. V. d. M. under the
direction of his deceased son (aged 15) and through which the latter
is alleged to intimate directly, by ringing, when he is going to
communicate through the ouija. The apparatus has been tested in
sittings of the Conseil with success, but essential particulars are
meanwhile missing. We have no detailed description of the
apparatus nor are we told anything as to the precautions taken to
prevent action on the part of some person present. The words
" progres capital " applied to the new invention by M. Rutot appear
]28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October io30
therefore premature. Another article by him refers to various
alleged incidents where quasi-human hands and forms are asserted
to have been produced with the help of electric currents of high
frequency, and suggests more experiments in that direction.
A series of non- evidential " messages alleged to have proceeded
from the late Dr van Velsen of Brussels, is then given, and a
materialisation sitting with Mr Guy L'Estrange as medium, at
Carshalton, is described.
Bulletin du Conseil des Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, July
1930.
This number opens with a " descriptive monograph of the Henri
Vandermeulen apparatus (this being the Christian name and
surname of the 15 years old deceased boy mentioned above). In
another article M. Rutot mentions a more or less similar apparatus
invented some fourteen years ago in England by (or through) a Mr
David Wilson. I abstain purposely from saying more on the subject
now, merely mentioning that I had the pleasure of making M. Louis
Vandermeulen's acquaintance, and that at the moment (14 July)
the ringing and the ouija-writing seem to be produced by other
" entities," which have almost completely elbowed " Henri out,
and of which M. Vandermeulen is trying to get rid. More than this
I need not say at present.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsyclwlogie, June 1930.
Dr Wagenschein narrates a psychometric experiment which Frau
Lotte Plaat, who of late has acquired considerable reputation in
that domain. As a whole the experiment ("psychometrizing" a
human bone from Pompeii) failed, though some of the statements
made by Frau Plaat may be regarded by some as remarkable : I
cannot attach much importance to them in view of the several huge
mistakes made by the " sensitive."'
Herr Johannes narrates several spiritistic experiences he had in
London in connection with his deceased son. There is nothing very
striking in these experiences (which included " spirit photographs),
and Herr Johannes must have been easy to satisfy.
Herr Bruno Grabinski prints extracts from the diary of an
anonymous " Soixth-German Princess," who describes a long series
of apparitions of the dead she saw in 1921-1927. With many of
these she conversed and in a few cases there seems to be some
evidence that these experiences were not purely subjective. When
reading the Princess's extremely striking account one is irresistibly
reminded of Friederike Haufie, Kerner's subject. The genuineness
of the diary is vouched for by a Roman Catholic priest, also anony-
mous, but with whom the Editor of the Zeitschrift was able to
October 1930 Notes on Periodicals 129
correspond. How I wish that a decisive effort were successfully
made to place this extraordinary account on a more solid basis !
A case of alleged stigmatisation a la Francis d'Assisi (who is
supposed to have controlled the medium on this occasion) with
the medium Melzer of Dresden, is described by Leopold Giinther-
Schwerin.
' Parapsychology " and Spiritism flourish in Iceland if we are
to believe Herr Florizel von Renter, who visited this " small
"
country and narrates marvellous things about mediumistic com-
munications there obtained through his mother and himself. He
need not be told that in such a form, without any corroboration,
his account is not only absolutely valueless but decidedly irritating.
A very interesting " prophetic " dream happening to Mme
Mikuska of Banska Stiavnica. Czechoslovakia, is narrated by her
husband. The dream (that a Professor Slaboch would have an arm
broken) was related by the percipient to her husband and noted
down by the latter some eight weeks before the fulfilment. The
whole incident is excellently presented evidentially speaking, and
in my opinion is one of the best cases of apparent fore-knowledge
(precognition) we possess—as to the reality of which faculty I am,
as my readers possibly know, very sceptical.
Dr Marcinowski quotes interesting extracts from a work written
by a Red Indian chief, of which a German translation by Dr. E.
Rieder appeared lately at Munich. The accoimt given by this " Long
Spear" of a wizard's performance witnessed by him as a child is
fascinating, though it is strange that the writer seems totally to
ignore the possibilities of ventriloquism.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, July 1930.
This number opens with a first instalment of a translation
(somewhat abridged) of Mr Harry Price's account of his experiments
with Rudi Schneider.
Fran Ruth Elschner (vouched for by Dr AdoLf Schmidt) describes
some uncanny experiences of hers (spontaneous) apparently con-
nected with a deceased aunt. The account is interesting and in
my opinion brings us nearer to something like an invisible world
than hundreds of pages of e.g. the Piper records.
Dr von Winterstein attempts to show the importance of psycho-
analysis for " parapsychology."" Opinions will vary as to whether
he has proved his point ; and to me at any rate the perpetual
insistence of the psychoanalists on the sexual factor and on
" suppressed "'
feelings is distinctly irritating. We have psycho-
analysis again in a translation of a paper by Dr Dietz, of The Hague,
on " Neurosis and Paragnosie " (the supernormal acquisition of
knowledge). Three dreams of an apparently supernormal nature
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1930
are described whose interest, in my opinion, is neither increased nor
diminished by the quite unnecessary introduction of the psycho-
analytical factor.
In Kleine Mitteilungen a curious paper on " Indian soothsayers
of the Eastern Coast of Africa " by Herr Werner v. d. Schulenburg
is reproduced from the Deutche AlJgemeine Zeitung. What the
author says of a certain Lena Singh, of Srinagar, whom he saw at
Beira (Portuguese East Africa), is undoubtedly interesting ; I wish
Lena Singh's alleged powers could be inquired into.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, August 1930.
This number continues Mr Harry Price's report on the experiments
with Rudi Schneider in his Laboratory. Dr Kurt Dieterich has a
long paper on the performances of a certain Max Moecke, whose
" clairvoyant " powers are claimed to be extraordinary. Many
incidents happening at public sittings are certainly jwima facie
striking, but the writer's attitude does not seem to me sufficiently
critical, in particular as to the significance of failures (p. 504).
Apart from this how do we know that some of Moecke" s apparently
most striking successes at public sittings were not due to collusion ?
P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, July 1930.
This number contains a summary of the published material on
the Brazilian medium Mirabelli. The digest is by Mr Dingwall and
is the fullest yet available in English, though Mr Dingwall does not
touch on Mirabelli's spirit-communications, of which we hope to
print a review in an early issue. Even in such a context Mr Ding-
wall has found an opportunity for a jeer at the S.P.R., which he
imaginatively describes as " torn almost in two by internal dis-
sensions."
Psychic Research, August 1930.
In this issue is published, during the course of an obituary note
by Dr Crandon on the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, a letter from
Sir Arthur of an illuminating character in regard to his attitude
to the S.P.R.
Psychic Research, September 1930.
M. Sudre offers an explanation of the phenomena of psychometry
on the lines of modern four-dimensional hypotheses. Mr Carrington
contributes a lengthy collection of apparently supernormal incidents
among the so-called primitive peoples.
Th. B.
No. 469.—Vol. XXVI. November 1930
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
FRIENDS' HOUSE,
EUSTON ROAD,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 26 November igjo, at 6 p.m.,
WHEN A REPORT ON
" A Series of Experiments in Clairvoyant Card-guessing
with a Fraud-proof Technique
"
WILL BE READ BY
Miss INA JEPHSON
N.B.— Visitors will be admitted on production of an invitation card
signed by a Metnber or Associate. Members and Associates will be
admitted on signi)ig their names at the door.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1930
SECOND-HAND SETS OF THE SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS
Members and Associates will be glad to know that it has been
possible to build up two complete second-band sets of Proceedings
and of the Journal, thirty-eight volumes of the former and twenty-
four volumes of the latter. The two sets, which are in good condition
and newly bound in the Society's green and red covers, are being
offered at £10 Os. Od. for the set of Proceedings, and £7 Os. Od. for the
set of the Journal, or £16 Os. Od. for a complete set of the two
publications. Owing to the scarcity of some of the Parts it is now
very difficult to make up complete sets, and any Member or Associate
who would like to take advantage of this offer is advised to make
early application to the Secretary.
It may be useftil to note, for ptirposes of comparison, that the
published price of a set of Proceedings is £36 4s. 9d., and at the Mem-
bers' half price £18 2s. 5d. ;
allowing for the reduction made to
Members buying a complete set the price is £16 5s. 6d. The Journal
is not obtainable by the general public, and the price to Members of
a new set is £12 10s. 6d.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE FOURTH CONGRESS FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
In the issues of the Journal for June and July it was mentioned that
the Transactions of the Athens Congress were being edited in Eng-
land, and that the price of each copy would be 7s. 6d. ; the great
interest of the volume was explained and Members were urged to
place orders for the volume as soon as possible, so as to relieve the
Society from any financial anxiety as to the publication. The
response to these two appeals does not seem to us altogether worthy
of the Society's position in the world of psychical research. Up to
date (28 October) the total number of copies ordered by Members
of the Society resident in the United Kingdom and the United States
is twenty-one (value £7 lis. 6d.). This contrasts most unfavourably
with the subscription of 500 crowns, equivalent to over £27, which
has been made towards the cost of publication by the Norwegian
Society for Psychical Research. If a Society in a small country like
Norway takes siiJficient interest in the international congresses and
in the publication of the Transactions to subscribe as much as £27,
surely Members of so large and so old established a Society as our
own might be rather more ready in ordering copies.
It is expected that the volume will be ready before Christmas and
the Hon. Treasurer hopes that the result of this new appeal will be a
large application for copies.
November 1930 Donations 133
DONATIONS.
A Friend of the Society ------- $500
Miss Irene Putnam - - - - - - - -$100
Mr C. E. A. Bedwell (through the Kev. A. T. Fryer) -£500
Dr H. W. C. Austen -------110
An Inquirer - - - - - - - - -100
Mr Henry J. Potter - - - - - - -10 0
APPAEITION OF A FRIEND AT THE MOMENT OF HER
DEATH.
L. 1293.
We are indebted to Baron A. Winterstein of Vienna, President of the
Austrian S.P.R. and a Member of our Society, for bringing the follow-
ing case to our attention. Baron Winterstein writes as follows
(13 June 1930) :
" A case of apparition witnessed soon after death and reported in
the enclosure, may be of some interest for your Society. I was
informed by the person who had received the letter of condolence.
Baron Alfred Liebieg, Vienna III, Petterhofengasse 5, an old friend
of our family who has lost his wife some weeks ago. She died in
agony, after having been ill for a long time, on April 29th at 11.20
p.m. in Vienna (local time for England about 10.20 p.m.). The vision
occurred therefore approximately an hour after the death. The
writer of the letter is Mrs Jessie Finniecome, Barskimmine, Paisley
Road, Renfrew, Scotland. The lady lived years ago in the house of
the Baron and remained on very friendly terms with the whole family,
especially with the deceased Baroness. IVIrs Finniecome wrote the
letter immediately after she had received the printed announcement
of the death, which contained merely the date ; the hour of death was
not specified therein. I should like to refer you for further details
and for the confirmation of the facts to Mrs Finniecome herself,
who may tell you also if she has had similar experiences before. . .
."
The following is Mrs Finniecome's account of the occurrence as
given in her letter (dated 5 May 1930) to Baron Liebieg, who
kindly forwarded the original to the Society for inspection
:
"... Now I must tell you that a very strange thing happened to
me on the night of April 29th. I already knew on that night that
the Baroness had died—because she came here and said goodbye to
me. It was like this : On the Tuesday evening I went to bed feeling
very tired about 9 p.m. and fell sound to sleep. About llj p.m. I
awoke with some one pressing a kiss on my forehead, and on looking
up, I saw the Baroness standing by the side of the bed, she looked as
though she desired to say something, or was waiting for me to
speak or answer, but I was so startled, not to say, afraid, I was
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1930
speecUess, so after gazing at one another for a minute or two, the
Baroness turned and vanished. Her expression was so sad and
enquiring I cannot forget it. AVhat I have just written you is not an
hallucination but real fact. I related it to Mr Finniecome on the
Wednesday morning, and he said '
you were dreaming.' However
now the news has come of the Baroness's death, Mr Finniecome is
convinced that really I saw what I related to have seen. I only wish
I knew what it was the Baroness wished to ask or tell me—for I am
sure she wanted to know something. Tell me what do you think of
this strange vision. I really saw the Baroness as clearly as I see the
paper I am now writing on and I was wide awake. ..."
The Hon. Treasurer, Mr Salter, wrote to Mrs Finniecome asking
whether Mr Finniecome would give his own account of the morning
of 30 April, when Mrs Finniecome related her experience to him,
and received in reply the following statement (dated 7 July 1930)
dictated and signed by Mr Finniecome :
" I do not remember the exact words of the conversation which
took place at our breakfast table on the morning of Ap. 30th.
But as far as I can recollect it began somewhat as follows :
" My wife said :
'
I dare say you will laugh at me when I tell you
a very strange thing happened to me last night.'
" '
Why, how so, what was it ?
'
" '
Well, I awoke with someone stooping over me and kissing my
forehead. It was such a cold kiss, and I was awfully frightened—
I
am sure it was Baroness Liebieg, and she looked as though she was
trying to make me imderstand something she wanted to say—I was
so startled and afraid I half turned myhead, and when I looked again,
she was vanishing, and gave me such a sad look. You know, Jim,
she stood between the two beds, with her back to you.'
" '
Why did you not wake me ?
'
" '
Because I did not think it would be of any use and might spoil
your night's rest.'
" '
Ah ! perhaps you were dreaming.'
" '
No, I was not, I saw her as distinctly as I see you now.'
" '
Well, it's very strange, but if you recollect the same thing
happened to you when my mother died, but she spoke, and told you
to take care of the weans, and as my mother was totally unknown
to you and you had never seen her, you described her to me
most accurately, and 3 or 4 days later I heard of my mother's
sudden death. She died on the same night and about the same time
as she appeared to you. It is really very strange.'
"
Mrs Fimiiecome also forwarded the original printed aimouncement
of the Baroness Liebieg's death. It is dated " Wien, am 30 April
1930," and, as stated by Baron Winterstein, does not give the hour
of the death, but merely says " am Abend des [during the evening
KovEMBEii 1930 Apparition of a Friend at moment of Deutlt 135
of] 29 April 1930." Questioned as to how she fixed the time of
the appearance Mrs Finniecome writes (7 July 1930) :
" I did not
hear the hall clock chime the quarter, but soon after the appearance
had vanished it chimed the half hour—and when I had recovered
from my fright (for I was afraid) I got up and looked at the bedroom
clock, which showed the hour to be eleven [clearly this means that
the hour hand stood between 11 and 12]—therefore the vision was
somewhere between 11J-11t|. I fixed 11.20."
On the question of the hour it is to be noted that, whereas Vienna
is normally an hour ahead of British time. Summer-time came into
operation in Great Britain on 13 April 1930, and therefore on
29 April British and Vienna times were the same, as we are informed
that there is no Summer-time in Austria. The time of Baroness
Liebieg's death (11.20 p.m.) therefore corresponds exactly with the
time fixed by Mrs Finniecome for her vision.
Mrs Finniecome was also asked whether, in view of the fact that
Baroness Liebieg had been ill for some time before her death (the
announcement says " nach langerer Krankheit "), she had, apart
from the vision, any reason to expect a crisis in her friend's illness
at that time, or any special cause to think about her then.
Mrs Finniecome replied (7 July 1930) :
" Yes, I knew that the
Baroness was very ill, but from the last reports of her health, I had
reason to believe and hope that she was gaining strength and better.
Naturally I thought a great deal about her, as I was greatly attached
to her, but on 29th Ap. I had not been thinking more than usual
about her."
The case is an unusually striking one, in view of the very close
correspondence in time between the death of Baroness Liebieg and
Mrs Finniecome's vision, and of the distance between Renfrew and
Vienna.
NOTES ON A SITTING WITH MRS BRITTAIN.
By Ernest S. Thomas.
Miss Nea Walker (whom I have not met) kindly arranged for me an
anonymous sitting with the medium Mrs Brittain, on 9 November
1929.
Before going into trance the medium said that a little dog had
followed me in. I could not place it. With three recent sitters
known to me she had also remarked upon an accompanying dog.
Twenty names were given, of which two (mine and my mother's)
were asked for by me. Of these names fifteen were those of near
relatives well known to me. It should be stated, however, that my
parents both came of very large families. Four of these names were
wrongly assigned, while five were correctly associated. Two
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1930
statements regarding unknown names cannot, I find, be verified.
One of tlie correct names is doubtfully associated (viz. Dorothy, see
below) and of no particular significance. A strikingly wrong state-
ment was made about my mother and one about myself. Three
persons were described in detail whom I failed to recognise. Both
my parents were correctly taken to be dead. This was not necessarily
probable but a fairly safe guess. A few notes on incidents follow.
Statements by the medium are in italics.
My mother's name was early stated to be Anne (or Hanna),
which (the former) is her mother's name.
Alice in the spirit-world loves you. This was my mother's name.
In the list of 1,500 names (odd) on the books of the Oxford Ladies'
Colleges since 1881, Alice occurs 41 times. But it was commoner
when the medium was quite young. I find Alice was given non-
relevantly to one of the sitters referred to above.
The details, though scanty, given in describing my father, were
good, and included his love of children and, notably, his twinkling
blue eyes (mine are brown). Father sends- his love to Dorothy and
Mabel. I asked, " Who is Mabel ?
" His daughter, his second
daughter. I thought this was wrong, but see below. I forgot to ask
about Dorothy. Mabel occurs in the above list ten times and is not
markedly Victorian.
He used to say " Jeremiah, blow the fire." He habitually chanted
this old song to his two small boys in Ceylon, with appropriate play
with the bellows (" puff puff puff ") when blowing up the fire. Miss
Walker kindly submitted a list of Victorian sayings, including the
above, to Mrs Brittain (Tommy make room for your Uncle, Bob up
serenely, How's your poor feet, Jeremiah blow the fire, puff, pufi:, puff,
Champagne Charlie is my name. Go it yoa cripples, Young son of a
gun, Whippersnapper, Come to my arms my bundle of charms).
The medium marked several she knew, but not Jeremiah. I had
not thought of it since I sang it occasionally to a small child two or
three years ago.
I asked my mother's name. Wait, som.eone called Emily. This
was her second name : I expected Alice. Emily is perhaps distinctly
Victorian, but it occurs only eight times in the above lists.
Someone called Constance daddy says. I had forgotten, when
Mabel was given, that there had been an elder sister, Constance,
who died yoimg, in England (seven years after I had seen her)
forty-three years ago. Connie sends her love. She was so called
always. Constance occurs only seven times in the lists.
He is laughing about ... a debt to say good-bye to. This is a clear
reference to a recent sale of land in the Colonies for the unfortunate
purchase of which he was responsible.
Finally, when the power was said to be going, I asked that my
November 1930 Notes 071 a Sitting with Mrs Brittain 137
father should give my name. After Edward ? no : Teddy ? no (l
saying nothing) she said the name had five letters and spelt Ernie
tentatively (that is, saying no after each letter), getting all the letters
correctly except the penultimate, at first trial, to my yes and no.
Yet she did not guess the name she so nearly spelt. She seemed in
real distress at her failure and complained of the movements of the
letters shown her.
My father died ten, my mother (whom I last saw in 1884) twenty-
five years ago. Both lives were notable for striking and imusual
episodes. Yet none of these were alluded to. I had especially hoped
for commiinications from my mother. Yet nothing tangible came.
In the circumstances I realise that there are good enough reasons
(both expedient and natural) for the failure in both cases. Again,
I was surprised that no message had been sent to my brother as well
as my sister, neither of whom had been in my thoughts during the
sitting. But as an objector on religious grounds to dealings with
mediums, he would not have welcomed it.
The Jeremiah and the debt episodes, as well perhaps as the sudden
reference to Constance, accord with a whimsical trait in my father's
character. All the evidential points given as from him, except the
debt incident, came together near the close of the sitting, as though
the medium had got on a trail or established contact. A strong
point is this : I have never since his death associated Constance with
my father, never thought of any reimion. If the medium got this
and all the above correct information from my unconscious mind,
she showed distinct powers of selection.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Psychology of a Mistake.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Gratified as I always am to have any error in my writings
pointed out, I naturally prefer to be myself the first to detect them.
Alas ! it was not imtil within half a day of receiving offprints of
my Presidential Address {Proceedings, vol. xxxix) that it dawned
upon me that, on page 283, the name Tyndall instead of Huxley
should have been given, as that of the man who refuted the experi-
ments of Bastian.
Now that the erratum has been signalized, it may be worth while
to mention that its discovery is a fairly good illustration of the sub-
conscious activities and relations with the conscious which are in
constant operation with us all, but of which we ordinarily take less
note than of the air which surrounds us in a still room.
The fact is that while it was Tyndall who performed the experi-
ments correcting the defects in the experiments of Bastian, upon
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1 930
which the latter had relied as a proof of abiogenesis, Huxley did
later deliver an address on " Abiogenesis and Biogenesis " in which
he mentioned Tyndall's experiments. It has been, probably, thirty
years since I read either Tyndall's report or IKixley's address. The
confusion of memories is therefore easy to understand.
But note ! When I wrote the sentence mentioning Huxley I felt
so certain the experiments were his that I never thought of checking
up on my impression. Moreover, I went over my own address
repeatedly, combing it for errors, etc., read it at the S.P.R. Meeting
in London, and again repeatedly searched it in order that any dis-
covery of the need of correction should be in time for the printer.
Several changes in diction were made, but all the conscious effort
applied failed to detect the mistake in naming Huxley.
Then, a few days ago, by accident I came upon the manuscript,
merely glanced at it, and as my eye fell upon the word " Huxley,"
instantly and spontaneously—that is, without any conscious
questioning or consideration—it was apparent to me that Tyndall
was the man. Accompanying this conviction there flashed upon my
mental retina the picture of Professor George M. Duncan, sitting at
his desk in a classroom of Yale University, and then I remembered
that, when I was a member of his class, he gave a course of lectures
on the foundation of Tyndall's Fragments of Science and other
writings. I cannot now consciously remember that he discussed the
Bastian-Tyndall matter, but infer that this was the case. And then,
by purposive searching among my conscious memory of the general
character of researches made by Tyndall and Huxley respectively,
what had first emerged as a conviction with a pictorial accompani-
ment became rationally highly probable. Finally, fresh research
established the fact that it was Tyndall who answered Bastian.
There is nothing remarkable about this instance, but it is
interesting considering the failure of so much and repeated volitional
scrutiny, and the sudden illumination which followed a mere passing
glance. Of course it was that very volitional scrutiny which set the
wheels of subconscious activity in motion.
I would be glad to receive any reports of similar emergences,
carefully and critically analysed, which readers may be so good as
to send me.
The error on page 15 of the Address, " Romford " for Rumford,
was not made at my end of the line. I am reminded that years ago
a group of which I was a member determined to print a very small
pamphlet absolutely free from typographical errors, and when it
came out the word " the " occurring at the end of a line was found
repeated as the first word of the line following.
Yours, etc.,
Walter Franklik Prince.
November 1930 Rudi Schneider 139
EVDI SCHNEIDER.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In his criticism of my book, Rudi Schneider (October
Journal, p. 125), Dr WooUey omitted to state that all the points he
raised were thrashed out in the work itself and discussed from every
angle.
It is playing with words when Dr WooUey states that the " metallic
gloves, not the hands " were in contact ; he might as well argue that
when we shake hands, we " shake gloves " if we happen to be wearing
hand coverings.
Dr Woolley's " metallic gloves " are in fact cotton or leather (the
former very difficult to get off, once they are on) with metallic
palms which have to be in frrai contact in order to keep the indicator
control light burning. The slightest relaxation of grip puts the light
out, so that it woiild be absolutely impossible (it has been tried
experimentally many times) for a sitter to remove his gloves without
the light failing.
No one who had properly studied the details of our electrical
method of controlling a medium could possibly make the remark :
" One sitter alone can free his feet by comiecting his metal floor
plates by a piece of wire," and I should be grateful to Dr WooUey if
he would show me how it can be done without the rest of the sitters
becoming aware of the fact.
As a matter of fact, the floor plates are not in the electrical circuit,
as I plainly state in my report (p. 9). They are there merely for the
sitters' convenience instead of their having to keep the feet hard
pressed against their neighbours'. What a sitter must do is to keep
his feet in contact with the feet on either side of him. " Connecting
his metal floor plates by a piece of wire " would make no difference
to the circuit.
But supposing a sitter wished to tamper with the plates, he would
first have to remove one glove (and that would mean two confeder-
ates ; and the gloves are linked together with insulated wire) in
order to untie the securely taped-on metallic socks. Then he would
need both hands (with gloves removed : that means three confederates)
in order to fasten " a piece of v/ire " to the metal floor plates (which
are nailed flat to the floor and cannot be moved) . And then he wotdd
have his trouble for nothing as the plates are not in the electrical
circuit, as I have already stated. And while our hypothetical three
confederates are doing their job of work (for which a tool would be
needed) the hand and foot control lights wotdd be out. In practice,
the slightest flicker of any of the six control lights is immediately
challenged;
I will not further encroach upon your space by answering all of
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1930
Dr WooUey's criticisms. He has never seen our electrical control
or its application to sitters and medium, and lie has never seen our
seance room. I find it hard to convince myself that he has even read
the book properly.
The " two visits of Rudi Schneider to Mr Price's laboratory " (in
reality, twenty-six seances held at the National Laboratory of
Psychical Research, over a period of nine months, and attended by
one hundred scientists, doctors, magicians, etc., some of whom have
furnished independent reports which are printed in my book), were
productive of physical phenomena witnessed under conditions of
control never previously imposed upon any medium in any country.
And the phenomena were produced with a constantly changing
circle and with twenty-one different controllers. I think Dr WooUey
might have mentioned these vital facts in his criticism of my book.
As regards the utility or otherwise of the electrical control, the proof
of the pudding is in the eating and we have achieved a brilliant and
convincing success.
The plan of the seance room mentioned by Dr WooUey is drawn
approximately to scale, and exact measurements and weights, and
dimensions of articles used are given at least ttvice in the text.
In conclusion, I will remark that I have offered the conjurers on
both sides of the Atlantic substantial monetary inducements to
produce " phenomena " under our system of controlling a medium,
but none has had the temerity to try. Will Dr Woolley give the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research a practical demonstra-
tion of how it can be done ?
Yours, etc.,
Haery Price,
Honorary Director,
National Laboratory of Psychical Research.
[Dr Woolley writes : I cannot agree with Mr Price that it is
playing with words to emphasise the fact that his electrical control
only informs the sitters of the contact of the gloves and not of the
hands. Assuming that two adjacent sitters wish to free a hand, the
difficulty of one pulling ofi the glove from the other's hand without
breaking contact depends only on the tightness of the glove, and the
other would take care to select a loose one before the sitting. So long
as the first continued to grasp the empty glove the light woiild
continue to glow.
With regard to the foot control and the floor plates I have con-
sulted page 9 to which Mr Price refers, and I find there " [the
sitter's] right foot rests on half of the small plate, his neighbour's
foot occupying the remainder of the plate, which thus serves as a
bridge for the current.'' (The italics are mine.) In view of this, how
November 1930 Rudi Schneider 141
can. it be said that the plates are not in the electrical current ? It
seems obvious that if an electrical connection is made between the
plate on which a sitter's right foot rests and that on which his left
foot rests that sitter could lift one or both feet (without removing
the metallic socks) and the lamp would still glow. Such an electrical
cormection could be made by a wire weighted at each end so as to
rest on and make contact with each plate. Whether one sitter
without a confederate could free his feet in this way is more doubtful
and depends on the alertness of his neighbours and the rigidity with
which the circle is kept unbroken after the lights are lowered. I
think it might not be difficult for him to make an excuse for a
momentary freeing of his hand to adjust the wire, but what I had
in mind when I wrote that " one sitter alone can free his feet " was
that, if he has once comiected the plates in the way I suggest, then
he needs no confederate afterwards. For freeing a hand a confederate
is essential.
In reply to ]\Ir Price's concluding question, I should much like to
have an opportunity of examining his control system in practice.
On reading his letter I visited his Laboratory for the purpose, but I
find that the apparatus is now dismantled.]
REVIEWS.
Hereward Carrington, The Story of Psychic Science {Psychical
Research). 8vo, pp. 400, 26 ill. and portraits. London : Rider
and Co. [1930]. Price 24s. net.
Mr Carrington describes his book as "an attempt to summarize
the findings of modern psychical research," and there are few
persons better qualified by length and variety of experience to
undertake such a task. The book should prove a useful introduction
to any student new to the subject, who will there find set out with
great clearness the outlines of the different branches of psychical
research, and a guide to those original sources of information which
in the course of more advanced study he will have need to consult.
The final decision " as to the pros and cons " of the subject, Mr
Carrington says in his Preface, can be left to the reader, " after he
has read and digested the facts. ... As to the facts themselves, I
consider these imdoubted. They exist : they are genuine : they are
supernormal." This seems to us unduly to simplify a very difficult
I problem. Even in a book which does not claim to be more than a
summary, the student must not be allowed to assume that all
investigators are equally trustworthy, and all alleged facts equally
well established ; and from time to time ]\Ir Carrington puts the
student on his guard. The criticism of evidence which he gives lis
is so sensible and good-tempered, that we could have wished he had
142 Journal of Society for Pf^ychical Research Novejibeu 1930
given us more of it. As a result of his self-denial in this respect,
some parts of his book seem rather out of focus.
After a brief introductory section on the scope of psychical
research, the proper attitude of the investigator, and the question of
fraud, three chapters are devoted to a historical summary, in which
we are glad to note that the formation of the S.P.R. and the work
of our founders are given due prominence. This part of the book
contains much useful material, well arranged, and the same may
be said of the succeeding chapter, entitled " Psychology and
Psychical Research."
The long section on physical phenomena which follows, is in our
opinion less satisfactory. The difference between alleged fact and
established fact, between trustworthy and untrustworthy recorders,
is not sufficiently stressed. In one case Mr Carrington speaks of
" the complicated social, personal, ethical, physical and psychological
factors involved " as a hindrance to forming a just estimate of the
facts : the same might, we think, truly be said about a good deal
of the material in this section, which nevertheless contains much of
interest, especially where Mr Carrington deals with mediums whom
he has himself investigated.
The mental phenomena are well summarized : we only wish that
more space had been devoted to them. The arguments for and
against survival are judiciously recapitulated. There is an excep-
tionally full bibliography, in which asterisks (rather lavishly
distributed) mark the more important books.
W. H. Salter.
Mensagens do Alem ohtidas e controladas pela Academia de Estudios
Psychicos " Cesar Lombroso " atmvez do celebre Medium Mira-
belli. 8vo, pp. 255, 32 portraits and facsimiles. Sao Paulo :
Miguel Karl, 1929. Price 12 milreis.
It is fairly well known that the Brazilian medium Mirabelli is
" celebrated " (to quote the titlepage) not only for his astounding
feats in the domain of the physical phemonena of psychical research,
but also for his alleged mediumistic writings in numerous languages
and on many subjects, purporting to emanate from the spirits of
deceased persons, most of them eminent. In the present book we
are given a considerable number of these writings and we are now
able for the first time to estimate their value.
We may consider first the languages in which they are written.
The text of the book under review contains scripts written in English,
Hebrew, Greek, French, and German, in addition to Mirabelli's
native Portuguese and his father's native Italian. This is merely
the order in which the languages mentioned first appear in the book.
The amount of material in each language, however, varies consider-
November 1930 Revietvs 143
ably. The mass of the script is in Portuguese ;
apart froni this only
in French are there any long passages, totalling about thirty-five
pages. There is a total of about one and a half pages in German,
including one fairly long script. The other languages occur in small
fragments only, totalling a page and a half of English, two-thirds of
a page of Italian, a dozen lines of what may pass for Hebrew, and
five words of Greek. Except in fragmentary facsimiles of Oriental
scripts, we are given no examples of any of the other numerous
languages in which Mirabelli is stated to have written (pp. 9-10).
Indeed, the book under review makes clear the basis of that claim.
Mirabelli evidently writes freely only in Portuguese and in stilted
French. Sometimes, however, the supposed communicating spirit
rounds off a message with a few words in his own or in some other
language. Thus, Cromwell, after three pages of Portuguese, adds a
dozen lines in English, beginning :
" Till now I did write in Portu-
guese, that's for me a foreign language, but presently I must show
you I have not yet forgotten my dear mother country and my loved
english tongue, that I spook in my youth "
(p. 102). Newton signs
himself :
" Newton The man of the apple He who has ears ... he
who has eyes ... as you know from the holy books "
(p. 88). And
Lombroso concludes a message in French with a few lines in English,
German, Italian and Portuguese, in which he challenges the " Herren
Doktors " to explain the medium's command of languages, the
English lines being : "I hope this proof will be more than to make
you believing, oh ! men ! you that always be in doubt. Jesus clear
and help you ever and for ever. Good by the same [that is, Lom-
broso] "
(p. 159). The scraps in foreign languages are often quota-
tions {e.g. " It is not growing like a tree in bulk ; doth make Man
better be !
" Newton, p. 86), and it is noticeable that the language of
such quotations, as in the instance just given, is much more
accurate than that of " original " material.
It is obvious enough that this kind of thing hardly justifies a
claim that the medium " writes " in many languages, and it is
equally obvious that, linguistically, such scripts as these do not
demonstrate anything supernormal, even if we could rely on the
texts printed being uncorrected, which we cannot, since facsimiles
of none of the scripts printed in this book are given. But this need
not be an insuperable difiiculty for the spirit-hypothesis if the
content of the scripts prove to be significant. The Brazilian sup-
porters of Mirabelli clearly consider his communications to be of
great value. The justice of this view must necessarily remain a
matter of opinion. I can only give it as my considered judgment that
the scripts are very largely quite uncharacteristic, in an evidential
sense, of their supposed authors, that they contain no evidence of
supernormal knowledge, and that the moral instruction which forms
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1930
the bulk of them consists of the tritest and most stereotyped
sentiments, inspired largely by Allan Kardec and by popular notions
of Indian philosophy. There is certainly nothing in them beyond
the reach of a man of Mirabelli's linguistic associations and com-
paratively good education.
•
Theodore Besterman.
Pseudo-Prophecies and Pseudo-Sciences. 8vo, pp. 98. Boston
Society for Psychic Research (Bulletin XII) : Boston 1930.
Price $1.00.
This Bulletin contains discussions of pseudo-prophecies and
pseudo-sciences by the Research Officer of the Boston Society, Dr
Walter Franklin Prince, our present President. They are careful
and instructive, as we always expect what he publishes to be. The
" Pseudo-Sciences " are Astrology, Numerology (which is the art
of deducing from numbers assigned to the letters in a man's name
what his character and prospects are), and Palmistry. The pseudo-
prophecies dealt with are English ones in the fifteenth to eighteenth
centuries and an American one in doggerel verse purporting to have
been written in 1787. If any of our members are inclined to belief
in these things, or Avish to discuss them with those who do believe
in them, they will do well to read Dr Prince's analysis. These are
followed by " Reflections " or what in the Table of Contents is
called " A discursive sermon " thereon (p. 73), including a statement
of the author's attitude to the physical phenomena of spiritism.
This leads up to Mr G. G. Crocker's important experiment " A Test
of the Accuracy of the Testimony of Bystanders," which is a valuable
addition to Mr S. J. Davey's paper on " The Possibilities of Malob-
servation, etc." in our Proceedings (iv. 381 and viii. 253), the differ-
ence between Mr Crocker's and Mr Davey's experiments being that
there is no conjuring in Mr Crocker's.
E. M. S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, September 1930.
Clairvoyance is rather to the fore in this number, in which
Prof. Verweyen, of Bonn, discusses the alleged powers of a certain
Richard Salzer, and Herr R. Lambert, with praiseworthy acumen,
those of another Hellseher Fred Marion. Strangely enough Herr
Florizel von Reuter prints a sceptical notice on Hanussen, the
clairvoyant recently acquitted at Leitmeritz. Herr Szanto discusses
psychometry and various hypotheses framed to explain it. Inci-
dentally he expresses the opinion that the history of every object
being boundless (owing to the numerous associations connected
November 1930 Notes on Periodicals 145
with it) there is scarcely one psychometric experiment which can
be called distinctly negative ; at most can we speak of positive and
undecisive experiments. A valuable hint to wonld-be psycho-
metrists !
Herr Schubert speaks of a certain Hedwig S. who has the capacity
of shedding tears of blood. The Editor wisely expresses the wish
to have Herr Schubert's observations corroborated. A more or
less similar wish is expressed d propos of an extraordinary account
(well authenticated) of a sitting given by an anonymous Czech
medium, 75 years of age, who is alleged to have the power of causing
various objects, weighing on one occasion as much as 750 grams,
to stick to (chiefly) the left side of his face without visible support.
The experiments took place in broad daylight, and after the medium's
face had been carefully washed with alcohol.
Herr A. Schiitze suggests new methods of control at sittings for
" direct voices," as to which suggestion the Editor says he would
welcome an expression of opinion on the part of Mr Bradley and his
German friends. The Herr Schubert mentioned above describes a
sitting at which a communication containing facts alleged to have
been unknown to the sitters and ascertained to be correct, was
obtained from a living person. To Mme Mikuska's premonitory
dream Dr Tanagras, of Athens, attempts to apply his theory of
" psychobolia." In the present case, if we are to accept this theory,
Mme Mikuska herself must have been the involuntary and uncon-
scious agent who at a distance caused M. Slaboch's arm to be
broken : an hypothesis as unlikely as it is uncomfortable. The
number opens with another instalment of Mr Harry Price's report
on Rudi Schneider.
Zeitschrift filr Parapsychologie, October 1930.
A final instalment of the translation of Mr Harry Price's account
of his London sittings with Rudi Schneider is printed.
Dr Adolf Schmidt, of Berlin, has a paper on Otto Reimarm, a
Prague " metagraphologist," which paper contains accounts of two
sittings given in Berlin ; Professor Albert Einstein was present at
the first and is stated to have been " quite satisfied " as to the result
of a particular experiment. Dr Schmidt's conclusion is that in
Reimann we have to deal with a " peculiarly gifted metagraph-
ologist," who is also said by him to be endowed with striking
capacities so far as pure psychometry is concerned.
The first part of an interesting paper by Dr Mattiesen on " The
psychological side of hauntings " {Spuk) is printed ; we will revert
to it when it is finished.
Dr W. Kroner has an article which is rather hard on Herr Albert
Hellwig, the Potsdam magistrate who is an arch-enemy of the
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November ii)30
professional clairvoyant : with wliicli attack the Editor of the
Zeitschrift thoroughly concurs.
P.-P.-S.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
July 1930.
The appointment of Mrs Champion de Crespigny as Hon. Principal
is announced, in place of Mrs McKenzie, who retires. Dr Hamilton
continues his account of teleplasmic phenomena in Winnipeg.
Dr Crandon's account of Margery's -unofficial sittings at the S.P.R.
is reprinted from Psychic Research. A further reply by Signor
Bozzano to criticisms (here called " attacks '") of the Millesimo
sittings, once again going over the same ground, is translated from
L^ice e Omhra.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
October 1930.
Mr De Brath prints a full survey of the medimnship of the Rev.
William Stainton Moses (M.A. Oxon). Messrs R. Sanders-Clark and
Denis Conan Doyle publish an account of the medium Guy L'Est-
range's sittings at the British College. The mediumship of Miss
Francis is reviewed by Mrs Muriel Hankey. A first, very brief,
instalment of a translation of Signor Bozzano's A Propos de VIntro-
duction d la Metapsychique Humaine is printed. Among the miscel-
laneous contents of this number is what purports to be a report of
the fourth Congress for Psychical Research. In this " report " only
two of the papers read at the Congress are mentioned, while more
than half of it deals with a paper that was not read.
Tijdschrift voor Patapsychologie, September 1930.
This number contains a valuable notice of the distinguished
Dutch psychologist, the late Professor G. Heymans, by Dr Brug-
mans. Psychical research, it will be remembered, is indebted to
these two investigators for one of the most important series of
experiments in thought-transference. Mr Price contributes an
article (accompanied by a portrait of himself seated in his labora-
tory), on the present state of psychical research in Great Britain.
It is Mr Price's opinion that the S.P.R. is now obsolescent, and that
psychical research has been revolutionised by the foundation of his
laboratory.
Th. B.
ERRATUM.
Proceedings, vol. xxxix. Presidential Address, p. 273, footnote :
for " Private Meeting " read " General Meeting."
No. 470.—Vol. XXVI. • Decembee 1930
JOURNAL
, OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Elected 31 October 1930.
Bax, Clifford, 72 Addison Road, London, W. 14.
Critchley, Dr Macdonald, 137 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Dowdall, Hon. Mrs, Melfort Cottage, Boar's Hill, Oxford.
Duffield, Mrs W. Geoffrey, Observatory House, Mt Strombo
Canberra, Australia.
Earl, Dr C. J. C, Tooting Bee Hospital, London, S.W. 17.
McLagan, P. W., 4378 Western Avenue, Westmount, Quebec,
Canada.
Oldham, Miss L. M., 13 Priory Avenue, High Wycombe, Bucks.
Resch, Francis X., Litt.B., 925 Pacific Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas,
U.S.A.
Elected 13 November 1930.
Beaty, Amos L., 17 Battery Place, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Chant, Stephen, Spring Cottage, Sanderstead, Surrey.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 274t]i Meeting of tbe Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Friday, 31 October 1930, at 4.30 p.m.. Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also present
:
The Earl of Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Professor E. R.
Dodds, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttletou, G.B.E., Mr J. G. Piddington,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mr Sydney
C. Scott, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal and Dr V. J. Woolley ;
also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1930
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for July, August and September 1930 were
presented and taken as read.
A letter was read from Mr Price, dated 30 October and addressed
to Several Members of Council, suggesting an amalgamation of the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research with the Society for
Psychical Research.
A Conmiittee was appointed to draft a reply, to be circulated with
the Agenda of the next Council Meeting.
The 275th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 13 November 1930, at 5 p.m.. Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Dr C. D. Broad, Miss Ina Jephson,
Mr G. W. Lambert, Sir Oliver Lodge, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr W. Whately Smith, Mr S. G. Soal and
Dr V. J. WooUey ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The draft reply (see p. 159 below) to Mr. Price, which had been
previously circulated to the Council, was discussed and approved
unanimously after amendment.
GENERAL MEETING. .
The 176th General Meeting of the Society was held at Denison
House, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W. 1, on Friday, 31
October 1930, at 8.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair.
Mr S. G. Soal read a Report on his " Experiments in Supernormal
Perception at a Distance " (with lantern slides), which will, it is
hoped, be published in Proceedings.
THE AETIOLOGY OF A " PSYCHICAL " LEGEND.
By Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
For half a century a certain story, in one or another form, relating
to Abraham Lincoln, has been in circulation, and I do not remember
to have seen in print any refutation. At last it has come to pass
that a book entitled The History of Spiritualism ^ boldly affirms :
1 By Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (1926) i. 146.
December 1930 The Aetiology of a ''Psychical" Legend 149
" We may fitly end this short review of the early days in America
by an event where spirit intervention proved to be of importance in
the world's history. This was the instance of the inspired messages
which determined the action of Abraham Lincoln at the supreme
moment of the Civil War. The facts are beyond dispute. . . .
"
And it has come to pass that a magazine purporting to be devoted to
research ^ declares :
" There is a remarkable story extant in regard
to the influence which led Lincoln to conceive the idea of emancipa-
tion and to act upon it by the issue of his famous proclamation. It
seems authentic and if so, it deserves to be widely known." When a
legend has reached the point that it is sponsored by what to many
readers are authorities, when it then attracts editorial attention from
the Bo.ston Herald, and revives in Spiritualist ^ and other periodicals,
it is time to confront it with an array of historical facts, and of
interest to trace it to its origins.
The learned writer of the magazine article says that " the credit
for the preservation of this story is due to Mrs M. E. Williams," ^
and after grateful acknowledgment that
'
' our thanks are due to this
lady for her kind permission to reproduce the story," proceeds to
reproduce it as embodied in a pamphlet by ]\L:s Williams, and, she
declares, told by Colonel S. P. Kase * of Philadelphia to her, and set
^ Psychic Research (Xew York, March 1930), xxiv. 115.
2 E.g., Light (London, 26 April 1930), 1. 199.
^ Mrs Williams, the author of the pamphlet referred to {Abraham Lincoln—
Facts Indisputable, 4th ed.), was invited by prominent French Spiritualists, in
1894, to give sittings for the materialization of spirits in Paris, and planned a
tour over Europe, which was suddenly terminated by her exposure in that city,
in the home of a Spiritualist, by Spiritualists, including M. Leymarie, of the
Revue Spirite. She was " grabbed " and found in the pantaloons and other
garments appropriate to a male spirit, and the mask and drapery which stood
for another spirit, and other apparatus, were discovered. The whole matter
was published in a special supplement to Light (1894, xiv. 545-52 ;
cp. xiv.
566-9), and was extensively printed in American journals. I may instance the
Xew York Sun of 23 November 1894, which published cuts from photographs
of the paraphemaUa. The lady has since had a variegated career. Within
the last decade a clergyman and his wife, acting under my instructions, twice
caught her impersonating a spirit.
* Col. Kase was a very prominent Spiritualist of the more credulous type.
I have an abundance of material showing that he was deceived by some of
the most notorious tricksters of his time. His reports of what took place in
his presence were so far from the facts that I would not trust his memory or
judgment for anything he said on the subject of Lincoln and mediums, because
I would expect that any interest which the President showed in the way of
trying out mediums would be exaggerated and warped out of semblance to the
reality. The fact that Col. Kase was " fully assured in his own mind " that
Lincoln was influenced by messages through a medium to issue the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation, weighs little in view of the cases of fakery of whose genuine-
ness he was also fully assured.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1930
down at her request so that it should not be lost to posterity. This
version, in honour of Mrs Williams, who is thus credited with its
salvation from oblivion, we will call the W-version.
According to the W-version, then, Col. Kase obeyed a voice which
told him, as he was walking on a street in Washington, to enter the
house of a medium named Conkling, who at once engaged him to
carry a letter written by himself (Conkling) to the President.
Conkling, however, accompanied Kase, but remained in an adjoining
room while the latter, equally a stranger to Lincoln, presented the
letter which stated that its writer had been sent " by spiritual
influences to confer with you regarding the interests of the nation."
Lincoln consented to see Conkling and did so the following Sunday.
Four weeks later Kase was present one evening in a certain house,
together with President and Mrs Lincoln and other persons, when a
young girl advanced toward Lincoln with closed eyes and said :
" Sir, you were called to the position you occupy for a very great
purpose. The world is universally in bondage. It must be
physically set free, so that it may mentally rise to its proper status.
There is a spiritual Congress supervising the affairs of this nation as
well as a congress at Washington. This republic will lead the van of
republics throughout the world." This is as Col. Kase remembered
it at this telling, and he added :
" This was a text on which she
lectured the President for a full hour and a half, dwelling strongly
on the importance of the emancipation of the slaves ;
saying that
the war could not end unless slavery were abolished." He also
thought he remembered hearing " the child " predict that the North
would undergo no military reverses after the issue of the proposed
proclamation. Then " the little girl " woke, and a lady began to
play the piano. ^ Finally, according to Kase, Lincoln, a few weeks
afterward, issued the proclamation, to take effect on 1 January 1863,
and Kase was quite certain that he was caused to do so by the
message through " the child." ^
But it happens that the world does not owe such a debt of grati-
tude to Mrs Williams, after all. Many years ago, at a time when
^ At tliis point the magazine omits the only sentences of the Colonel which
make the piano interesting ; his statement that one side of it hopped four
inches above the floor, in time to the music, and continued to do so with four
men roosting upon it.
2 It may also be noted that according to Mrs Williams's pamphlet Mrs May-
nard was for two years, 1863-186.5, " engaged exclusively by President Lin-
coln, and made her home in the White House where she gave the President
seances almost daily." This is a fearful perversion of the facts, as measured
by the statements of Mrs Maynard herself, who claims to have given " a number
of seances with President Lincoln and his wife " in February and March 1864,
and mentions only seven other meetings with him, several of which were
casual only.
December 1930 The Aetiology of a " Psychical " Legend 151
that lady's illustrious career was not far advanced, Col. Kase told
the story to Mrs Emma Hardinge Britten, who embalmed it in her
Nineteenth Century Miracles (1884, pp. 484-7) published in 1884.
This we will call the B-version. Moreover, as Mrs Britten informs
us, the tale had been told by him still earlier, and printed in a
Spiritualist paper called the Spiritual Scientist, and the B-version
includes extracts from that organ.
There are many discrepancies between the two versions. ^ Accord-
ing to B " the President looked somewhat disappointed," and it is
explained that the name sent in, S. P. Kase, gave Lincoln the
impression that S. P. Chase, Secretary of the Treasury, had called.
According to W, the President was " apparently a little frightened,"
and it is explained that Kase much resembled George Washington
(to meet whom, in 1862, one would naturally be a bit startled).
In each version Kase purports to give a copy of the letter ; the two
are not verbally identical, although essentially so. The versions of
the trance address verbally differ more widely, although the trend of
thought is similar. This is shown by the first sentences of B :
" You, sir, as President of the Republic, are called to the position
you occupy for a very important purpose. The world is not only
groaning under the weight of mental and spiritual bondage, but four
millions, made in God's image, are enduring physical slavery.
Their yokes must be broken, the fetters must be severed," etc.
And by a sentence farther on :
" This civil war will never cease ;
the shout of victory will never ring through the North, will never
reverberate along the valleys of the South ; the olive-branch of
peace will never wave over your fields, and lakes, and mountains,
till you issue a proclamation of freedom—a proclamation that shall
set forever free the enslaved millions of your distracted country."
The effect of all this eloquence, says Col. Kase, " was that President
Lincoln was convinced as to the course he should pursue ; the
command coming from the all-seeing angel world was not to be
overlooked, so like a faithful servant, when convinced of his duty,
he feared not to do it and to proclaim freedom by the Emancipation
Proclamation to four millions of slaves. That Proclamation was
issued on September 22, 1862, to take effect the first day of January,
1862."
I have no objection to any proof the " all-seeing angel world
"
may give as to the validity of its messages, but should lose something
^ One queer item of Kase's story may be noted in passing. He reported
that he advised the President to write a letter to Conkling making an appoint-
ment with him, although all the while that gentleman was sitting in an
adjoining room. To those who remember how accessible Lincoln was it is
incomprehensible that, having become interested in Conkling, he did not call
him in then and there.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1 930
of my respect for Lincoln if he accepted a mere mediumistic harangue
as proof. Still, if this is history, we must accept it. Fortunately
the good Colonel said something else, which enables us to estimate
his reliability as a historian.
In the version told to Mrs Williams, he added : "I believe we had
twenty-six battles after this great event [the preliminary proclama-
tion of 22 September], and all were successful on the Union side
except possibly one or two unimportant skirmishes." This affirma-
tion .
seemingly applies to the remainder of the war, and is an
egregiously mistaken one. Of major defeats which the North after-
ward underwent there may be cited the battles of Fredericksburg,
Chancellorsville, Chickamauga, Cold Harbor, Petersburg. Grant
fought battle after battle with Lee in the Wilderness campaign,
which battles certainly were not victories. Among minor defeats
may be listed the battles of Drury's Bluff, Olustee, Sabine Crossroads,
Pleasant Hill, Pine Mountain, Kenesaw Mountain, New Market.
If the Colonel was capable of such contradiction of public records of
his own day, how could one rest content on his uncorroborated story
of an unrecorded mediumistic speech which took place years before
the telling ?
In the B-version, we find the Colonel saying that it was, not
through the rest of the war, but " in the intermediate time " between
the two proclamations that there occurred twenty-six battles, and
now he says that " every one of them was a success upon the Union
side." By the time of the W-version his formula had somehow got
twisted, but the earlier one was only a shade less false. For between
22 September 1862 and 1 January 1863, came the terrible Union
defeat of Fredericksburg, the defeat of Sherman at Vicksburg, the
failure of Eosecrans at Stone River, the stalemate of even the iron-
willed Grant, and on the very day of the final proclamation the
rebels broke the blockade of Galveston. Instead of being a period
of victory it was one of special gloom for the North.
Considering that Kase was able to imagine and allege a military
Utopia which never existed, that he apparently recorded not a line
of the trance address and only vaguely attempted to fix its date as
" some three or four weeks " before the preliminary proclamation,
that he told his story years after the proclamations and the war and
Lincoln's death had passed into history, and that the sentences
attributed to the medium cannot be verbally correct or they would
not so markedly differ in the two versions, even if I knew no more,
I should say that without impugning Col. Kase's honesty in the
least, I could only infer from his yarns that the medium probably
said something about freeing the slaves, about the war and about
the country.
But I do know something more, as does every person familiar
December 1930 The Aetiology of a "Psychical" Legend 153
with American history, and that is, that on 22 July 1862, Abraham
Lincoln read to his Cabinet the draft of a preliminary proclamation
of emancipation, fully a month before, according to Kase, he listened
to the trance-address from " the all-seeing angel world " which
(still according to Kase) first convinced him that such a proclama-
tion should be made. The only reason it was not actually issued
that month was because it was thought best to defer it until after a
Union victory. When Lee had been checked in the battle of
Antietam, 16-17 September, it was determined that a fit time had
come. This explodes the legend thoroughly.
But there is more to learn. In the B-version we find that the
medium was Nettie Maynard (really, at that time, Nettie Colburn).
And she, as it happens, thirty-nine years ago wrote a book entitled
Was Abraham Lincoln a Spiritualist ? (Philadelphia 1891). Mrs
Nettie Colburn Maynard included in this book her version of what
happened on the same evening with Lincoln which Kase had in mind,
and of the trance-address. She had every motive not to minimize
the facts.
The first particular which strikes our attention is that the medium,
whom Kase remembered as "a little girl," (he calls her this thrice, and
says that she reminded him of the scriptural passage about " babes
and sucklings ") in 1862, was, according to her own testimony, " a
mere child " in 1845, and that she began to engage in public lectiu^ing
in 1856. That is, she was probably not less than 22 years old, and
very likely older, when she delivered the celebrated trance oration.^
The next fact which we discover from her testimony is that the
trance address, the first time she ever saw President Lincoln, was not
some time in August, as Kase remembered it (although even that
date was fatal to the claim that she inspired the preliminary pro-
clamation), but sometime in December 1862. ^ But the preliminary
proclamation had been issued more than two months before, and
this had declared that on 1 January 1863, all slaves in States then
1 Mrs Maynard also told of the terpsichorean piano but stated that its
saltations occurred before her oration, not after it as according to Col. Kase.
2 A little chronology will be useful, to show the slow evolution of the idea of
emancipation in Lincoln's mind.
Lincoln from the beginning of the war favoured compensated emancipation.
He brought about a joint resolution of Congress to pay for the slaves of any
state not in rebeUion, and signed it 10 April 1862.
16 April he signed an act aboHshing slavery in the District of Columbia.
12 July 1862 he met a delegation from the border States and urged that these
accept compensated emancipation.
13 July he told Secretary Welles that after much thought he had about
come to the conclusion that it was a military necessity to proclaim freedom to
aU the slaves.
17 July he approved an act freeing slaves under certain military conditions.
21 July he read to the Cabinet a draft of a proclamation of emancipation to
154 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research December 1930
continuing rebellious would be legally free. The absurdity of
claiming that Nettie brought about the act already in esse, or the
one already in posse, needs no accentuation.
But Nettie herself does not make the claim, or anything like it.
She admits that she knew that the final Proclamation was at hand.
This is her entire account of the address, the parts she thought most
important italicised as she italicised them. Beginning with the
statement that no one but Lincoln seemed to understand her
'
' until
that portion was reached that related to the forthcoming Emancipa-
tion Proclamation," she goes on thus :
" He was charged with the
utmost solemnity and force of manner not to abate the terms of its
issue, and not to delay its enforcement as a law beyond the opening
of the year ; and he was assured that it was to be the croivning event
of his administration and his life, and that while he was being coun-
selled by strong parties to defer the enforcement of it, hoping to
supplant it by other measures and to delay action, he must in no wise
heed such counsel, hut stand firm to his convictions and fearlessly
perform the work andfulfil the mission for which he had been raised up
by an overruling Providence." ^
become effective on 1 January 1863, but it was judged best to postpone it
until after a Union victory.
6 August he signed an act freeing all slaves employed in rebel military
service.
1 3 September he made a long reply, which has been preserved, to a committee
from Chicago religious bodies urging him to issue a proclamation of emancipa-
tion. In it he gave no hint of his intentions.
22 September he issued the preliminary proclamation, following the battle
of Antietam, giving notice that on 1 January 1863, all persons held slaves in
territory then in rebelhon should be free.
1 December he again urged his plan of gradual comj^ensated emancipation.
This producLag no results, on 1 January 1863 he issued the final Emancipation
Proclamation.
^ Since Mrs Maynard turned from the temptation of endorsing Kase's claim
that she inspired Lincoln to emancipate the slaves and told so tame a story of
what occurred, her honesty is beyond question. However, one is not compelled
to accejit her inference that since Lincoln glanced at Webster's portrait on the
wall he implied a conviction that the " Defender of the Constitution " had been
addressing him, nor that her memory of the conversation which ensued was
verbally exact. I do not believe that an intelUgent official asked the President
if pressure had been brought to bear upon him to " defer the enforcement of
the Proclamation." That word enforcement echoes the medium's naive
assumption that the President could give the impending Proclamation immed-
iate effect in the actual liberation of the slaves in rebelhous States. Conse-
quently it is unlikely that Lincoln replied : "It is taking aU my nerve and
strength to withstand such [my itahcs] a pressure," though he may well have
said that there was opposition to his plan. And did not the medium know
that ? His message of 1 December to Congress had been printed in the news-
papers, and that had said that " among the friends of the Union there is great
diversity of sentiment and of policy in regard to slavery and the African race
December 1930 The Aetiology of a "Psychical" Legend 155
Here is not a word about the world being universally in bondage,
or about the impossibility of the war ending unless slavery should
be abolished, or about victories which would result, or any of the
hifalutin contained in Kase's two versions. She first saw Lincoln
more than two months after the preliminary proclamation and within
a few weeks (nobody gives exact dates) of the final one, which was
already absolutely determined upon, and which nothing short of the
surrender of the States in rebellion or the death of Lincoln could
prevent. All that the medium did, according to her own account,
was to exhort the President to do what he had announced he would
do, to tell him this would be a very important thing, which he knew
already, to entreat him to be true to his convictions, which was his
life-long habit, and to direct him not to delay the enforcement of the
Proclamation beyond the first of the year, whereas it was absurd to
suppose that he could enforce it before the downfall of the Rebellion.^
Kase says that the lecture was " so grand and sublime " that the
" little girl must have been imder deep control of the spirit of some
ancient philosopher." Mrs Maynard hints that this " ancient
philosopher " was Daniel Webster !
I do not believe that Kase was a conscious liar, but that he was a
very badly mixed up old gentleman. To remember a young woman
hardly less, and very likely more than 22 years old, one who began to
deliver public lectures six years before, as a " little girl," a " child,"
is alone sufficient to show that his memory was in a mussy condition.
The date he assigns to the trance-address is inconsistent with the
claim that it brought about the document already existent in
writing. His varying but equally untrue affirmations regarding
victories show how unreliable he was. And the statement of the
medium herself utterly refutes his story, except for the commonplace
facts that Nettie was there and harangued the President about his
proclamations concerning which everyone then had knowledge.
Incidentally a pretty story told by the medium Conkling to Mrs
Britten must go into the ash-barrel too. Roused probably by the
interest taken in Kase's dreamy memories imparted to the Spiritual
amongst us. Some would perpetuate slavery ; some would aboHsh it suddenly
and without compensation ; some would abolish it gradually and with com-
pensation," etc. The pubUc knowledge of these utterances deprives the
trance-oration of its last scrap of significance.
^ Nineteenth Century Miracles was regarded as a Spiritualist masterpiece ; it
was in print seven years before Mrs Maynard printed her book, and it is
impossible that she was not famiUar with the Kase story. Her accoimt of
what really happened must be regarded as a conscious and dehberate contra-
diction of the tale credited by the Spiritual Scientist and by Mrs Britten. She
did not expressly denounce that tale, probably out of respect for " the female
St Paul of the movement " (See Doyle's History of Spiritualism, i. 138), whose
book had given it wide circulation.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1930
Scientist, one of which, was that Conkling spent four Sundays with
Lincoln, this medium told Mrs Britten that his spirits " spelled out,
letter by letter, the preliminary draft of that famous document.
The result of these interviews was the President's proposition to his
Cabinet to issue such a proclamation." Alas ! Kase informs us
that these four Sundays immediately preceded the occasion when
Nettie first met the President, and she tells us that she first met him
in December. But the prelimiary draft had been read to the
Cabinet in July, and, substantially unaltered, had been issued in
September !
The stages in the evolution of the legend, then, were somewhat
as follows :
1. Nettie Colburn, in December 1862, when all the country was on
tiptoe awaiting the final Emancipation Proclamation, had the
opportunity to display her mediumistic oratory before President
Lincoln. Stimulated by the stirring events happening and about
to happen, she, in what piirported to be a trance state, made a very
ordinary address, telling him that the freeing of four millions of
slaves would be the greatest act of his life, and exhorting him to
stick to his announced purposes against all opposition—as any
coimtry parson might have preached to him.
2. During the years that followed. Colonel Kase, so credulous that
he was the delight of tricksters, and so befuddled that the last thxee
months of 1862 appeared to him a period of uninterrupted Union
triumph, really remembering that Nettie had told the President
something about a proclamation freeing the slaves, and that she had
appeared to him to be very eloquent, gradually and unconsciously
concocted for her, in his mind, an unstable speech, and developed
the conviction that it first suggested to Lincoln the idea of issuing
a proclamation of emancipation, guileless of the fact that the date
he assigned to the interview by itself defeated the claim.
3. After the incident had become thoroughly transformed in the
laboratory of the Colonel's mind, its importance impressed him to
the point of telling it in the Spiritual Scientist.
4. The tale attracting wide attention among Spiritualists, the
medium Conkling became dissatisfied with the minor part assigned
to him therein, and gave out the story that his controls dictated,
" letter by letter," the preliminary proclamation, although again
dates refute the claim and, were it true, it would completely annul
Kase's allegation that the President was indebted to Nettie for the
idea. Kase, although so familiarly associated with Conkling, was
evidently ignorant of this feature.
^
^ The two stories, (1) that Nettie Colburn inspired the preliminary Proclama-
tion, and, (2) that Conkling dictated it verbally rest, each upon the testimony
of one person alone. But the cynical Muse who presides over the growth of
December 1930 The Aetiology of a " Psychical " Legend 157
5. " The narrative in substance was given to the author," that is
I
to Mrs Britten, by Col. Kase himself, but as she passes on, for the
most part, the Spiritual Scientist version, she probably made no
written record of the tale he told her, consequently we do not know
what variations it contained.
6. Mrs Nettie Colburn Maynard, the heroine of the Kase tale,
demolished it in a book of her own, but it already had too much
impetus to be thus stopped.
7. Kase told the story with many verbal and a few factual varia-
tions to Mrs Williams who, not being addicted to research, supposed
that she was the discoverer of it, and printed it anew.
8. Ignoring the medium's own repudiation of the claim that she
influenced President Lincoln to declare emancipation, and neglecting
a historical chronology not difficult of access, a professed history
insists that Nettie Colburn " determined the action of Abraham
Lincoln at the supreme moment of the Civil War," and that " the
facts are beyond dispute," ^ a professed researcher is impressed that
the story " seems authentic," a newspaper which professes nothing
but a desire to impart news thinks the claim worth editorial attention,
the legend starts again on its world-wide travels, and the indignant
ghost of Mrs Maynard protests in vain.
NATIONAL LABORATORY OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
As is stated in the Minutes on p. 148 above, on the 30th of October
Mr Price addressed to some Members of Council a letter suggesting
an amalgamation of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research
with the S.P.R. The Council carefully considered the question,
and replied to Mr Price's letter on the 14th of November. But
before he had received the Council's reply, Mr Price, on the 12th of
November, circulated to all the members of the S.P.R. his original
letter to Members of Council. Under the circumstances it seems
useful to place the two letters on permanent record.
I. Mr Price's Letter to Members of Council.
I Dear , 30th October 1930.
I should like to bring to your notice that at the next Council
Meeting of the S.P.R. a proposal will be made that something in the
legends has perpetuated the one which long ago was repudiated by its heroine,
and allowed to lapse into " innocuous desuetude " the other, which has never
been refuted until the present writing.
^ Doyle bases his certainty, strange to say, not upon the Kase story, but that
of Mrs Maynard, which does not in a single sentence, or by any uiference that
Sherlock Holmes himself could draw from it, support the notion that Lincoln
was influenced in the least by any medium on earth to emancipate the slaves.
158 Journal of Society for Psycldcai Research December 1930
nature of an amalgamation should take place between my Society,
the National Laboratory of Psychical Research, and the Society for
Psychical Research.
I intend in the near future to give up my present Rooms, and
reasons of health compel me to look forward to a less active part
than hitherto in such matters. Nevertheless, I by no means intend
to give up work entirely, and I am therefore desirous of incorporating
my organization with that of some other similar one. I am definitely
averse to joining forces with a society frankly spiritualistic ; I am
also reluctant to let my Library and Laboratory fall into foreign
hands. There remains the Society for Psychical Research, the only
organization in England with aims similar to those of the National
Laboratory, and I feel it incumbent upon me to offer them the use
of my property.
I therefore decided to make the S.P.R. the offer of :
L My Library.
2. The apparatus of my Laboratory.
3. The benefit of sharing in the investigation of such mediums
as I have obtained in the past and hope to continue to
obtain in the future.
4. The accruing of such members as care to transfer from my
Society to the S.P.R. in view of the proposed amalgama-
tion.
In return I should, of course, expect to take a major part in all
investigations brought about through my agency, and generally
to co-operate with the S.P.R.
I realize that it might be impossible to accommodate my Library
until some little time in the future, and that other matters might
need careful thought and adjustment. But I am at the present
moment negotiating with one or two well-known mediums with a
view to further investigation, so that items 3 and 4, referred to above,
should find immediate fulfilment.
The question of accommodating my Library and Laboratory
apparatus would, admittedly, need careful thought and adjustment
—possibly not until some future date. But the immediate terms of
the bargain, roughly, are that the S.P.R. gains financial help and
shares in the investigation of such mediums as I have every hope of
securing from time to time ; and that I gain a means of continuing
a life's interest with the aid and co-operation of a society, in England,
whose work and aims are similar to my own.
Yours sincerely,
Harry Price, Honorary Director.
December 1930 National Laboratory of Psycliical Research 159
II. Reply by the Council.
Dear Mr Price, 14 November 1930.
Your circular letter of October 30tli to the Members of
Council has been most carefully considered by them, and we have
been asked to exj)ress to you their appreciation of your offer and
of your regard for the S.P.R. and its aims.
They have considered the matter under the four heads set out in
yoiir letter, and their reply is as follows :
(1) Owing to the fact that the part of the house not at present in
our occupation is let on lease, the likelihood of om* being able, in the
near future, to house your library, which we are informed you wish
to have kept intact, seems remote.
(2) The same applies to the apparatus of your laboratory taken
as a whole.
(3) With regard to future possible investigation of mediums, the
Coimcil would gladly arrange for you as a Member of the Society to
have the use of the seance-room for this purpose in accordance with
their ofier as printed in the Journal for November 1928, and would
temporarily accommodate in the room any of your apparatus that
you need in any such investigation. You are doubtless aware that
the room has already been used in this manner with results which
seem to have been satisfactory to all concerned.
(4) As regards a possible accession of new members, it is unneces-
sary to say we should gladly welcome an addition to our Membership
from among those who are at present associated with your work, it
being understood that they would be proposed and seconded in the
usual way. We must however remind you that our financial
position has for some years past prevented us from electing Associates
at £1 Is., and that our Membership subscription is £2 2s.
Yours sincerely,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick,
W. H. Salter.
CORRESPONDENCE.
A Correction.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Dear Sir,—By this post I am sending you a letter which I must
request you to publish verbatim in the next issue of the Journal of
the S.P.R.
The letter of Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, which appears in the
October issue of the Journal contains the imputation that Mrs
I
Hon. Secretaries.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembkr 1930
Bradley acted fraudulently at a seance. It is calculated to do
damage to her reputation. Had such, a letter been published in the
public Press, I should have taken immediate action.
I must ask you to acknowledge receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
H. Dennis Bradley.
Sir, —In the issue of the Journal of the S.P.R. for October 1930
on page 120 there appears a letter from Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
under the heading of " A Correction." This letter is so worded that
it contains the imputation that Mrs Bradley acted fraudulently at a
sitting with Valiantine in Genoa, by having simulated a certain
" phenomenon." The letter also states that Herr R. Lambert, of
Stuttgart, has communicated valuable evidence bearing on the same
sittings to Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
Such statements are calculated to do grave damage to Mrs
Bradley, and I must request that this allegation be immediately
withdrawn.
The facts are as follows :
On the morning of Mrs Bradley's departure from Genoa to
Venice, May 22nd, 1929, Signor Rossi, in the presence of the Marquis
Centurioni, told Mrs Bradley that Signor Castellani had stated that
during the sitting held on the previous night he had caught hold of
her hand or wrist. Mrs Bradley unequivocally denied that such a
thing had happened and, trivial and meaningless as the assertion
was, she requested that Signor Castellani should be brought to her in
order to ascertain exactly what was implied. Her request was
evaded and the Marquis Centurioni said that Signor Rossi should
not have mentioned the matter.
Since the insignificant incident was connected with other un-
founded and disproven allegations regarding Valiantine, Mrs Bradley
wrote from Venice demanding an explanation. In a letter to her
dated May 28th, 1929, Count Centurioni wrote " Signor Castellani
will write to you direct."
Signor Castellani did not write to Mrs Bradley ; nor has he ever
done so.
On her arrival in Venice Mrs Bradley informed Count Bon of the
" incident." Count Bon is a Viennese gentleman, with a consider-
able reputation for his knowledge of psychical research. He wrote a
very sharp letter to Signor Castellani, and he (Signor Castellani)
suggested a telephone conversation, which Count Bon declined,
saying that Signor Castellani must state in writing the allegation
which he had verbally made. Signor Castellani did not do so.
When I saw Signor Rossi in London on June 18th, 1929, I referred
to this matter. Signor Rossi at once said :
" It is nothing—Signor
December 1930 Correspondence 161
Castellani has withdrawn the suggestion he made. We wish to say
no more about it."
Complete detailed reports of the Valiantine sittings in Italy were
published by me in " Light," and appeared in the issues of September
21st, September 28th, October 5th, and October 12th, 1929.
In psychical research I suppress nothing, as scientifically, I
consider to do so renders the records negative.
Insignificant as it may appear I gave the full particulars of the
" incident " regarding Mrs Bradley. It was only after this, in a
belated attempt to justify himself, that Signor Castellani wrote a
personal letter to Signor Kossi, on November 12th. It should be
noted that Signor Castellani did not write to Light, nor to me, nor to
]\Irs Bradley, as he obviously should have done.
This is the extent of the valuable evidence on which Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo implies that Mrs Bradley simulated a
certain " phenomenon." It is such trivial and infantile assertions
that degrade the work of psychical research. Valiantine's medium-
ship does not depend upon the absurd basis of so-called psychic
" touches." It depends only upon mental evidence of personality
given in the " direct voice " of the communicating entity.
Mrs Bradley's research work has been recorded in many volumes.
To imply that she, or anyone, would imagine that any evidential
value whatever could be placed upon such an absurdity as a touch
of the hand is ludicrous. What is of far greater moment is the
veiled manner in which a triviality is seized upon by Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo, and published in the Journal of the S.P.K.
without reference to details and facts, in a manner calculated to
mislead the members of the Society.
Yours faithfully,
I H. Dennis Bradley.
[We would once more point out that anything printed in the
Journal is not " published," since the Journal is printed for private
circulation only, and that the responsibility for all comanunications
printed by the Society rests entirely with their authors. Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo wTites : With regard to Mr Bradley's
letter I will content myself with observing : My only object in
writing to the October Journal was to correct, as I said, an involim-
tarily mistaken statement—or which seemed to me mistaken. Had
it been the reverse, I should have acted in precisely the same way,
my only desire being to give a fair summary of the Continental
controversy about the Valiantine sittings. There was on my part
no " imputation " on Mrs Bradley ; such was not my intention, and
I much regret that anything I have written should be taken by
Mr Bradley as being in any way an " imputation."]
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December iflso
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Etudes, 20 May 1930.
Father Lucieix Roure reviews the second volume of Brother Benoit
Padey's work entitled Traite complet des secrets de la bagette et du
pendule des sourciers (Paris 1929), a book which he thinks " strange
"
in some respects, chiefly on account of some " really marvellous
precisions." Thus Brother Padey asserts the existence of five kinds
of electricity to which would correspond five electric zones. Else-
where we read that in order to detect diseases the operation must
have 83 degrees of courage and 90 degrees of will. Brother Padey
having himself operated on springs with a dose of courage amounting
to 97 '5 ! Father Roure mentions other instances about as discon-
certing, not the least being the extreme simplicity with which the
writer he reviews claims to cure diseases (about 130 altogether)
through the application of minerals, the excess or absence of which
in the human body is, Brother Padey thinks, the cause of all
ailments.
Die Umschau, 19 July 1930.
Count von Klinckowstroem contributes an article on an alleged
prophetic dream relating to the death of the percipient (a schoolboy
of Ledci, Czechoslovakia) by drowning. The investigation under-
taken by our Corresponding Member conclusively shows that we
have here to deal chiefly with a newspaper stunt, though a certain
amount of coincidence remains, since the boy was in fact drowned
soon after having a dream to that efiect, as briefly described by him
in writing at school. The details of the dreaming and of the actual
drowning do not agree.
Scherls Magazin, September 1930.
This number contains an utterly sceptical article on spirit-
photography by Count von Klinckowstroem. Of particular interest
are his references to a paper by Jos. H. Kraus of New York in a
special number of the review Science and Invention describing what
seem to be entirely new methods in this domain, which methods
afiord, alas, one more striking instance of misdirected human
ingenuity ! P.-P.-S.
ERRATUM.
November 1930, p. 133, 1. 7, for "Mr Henry J. Potter" read "Mr Henry J.
Patten."
INDEX TO VOLS. XXV and XXVI
1929-1930
The jDage-numbers of vol. xxv are printed in roman letters and of
vol. xxvi in italics.
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as " supposed,"
" alleged," etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
Adolescence, relation of, to polter-
geist phenomena, 106-7
Adventure, An, original documents
of, 100
Africa, East, supernormal phenomena
in, 130
Aldous, Bert, telepathic experience
of, 157-8
AlUson, Lydia W., Leonard and Soiile
Experiments in Psychical Research,
reviewed, 92-3
Animals, uitelligent, 22-3, 80, 98,
111, 135, 16
Apparitions : at Schloss Bernstein,
the, 108-9, 166 ; in Crete, 113-4
, investigation of, 10, 19 ; of the
dead, 112 ; at the moment of
death, 114-5, 133-5 ; premonitory,
66-8 ; spontaneous, 115
Apports, 151, 153, 13-4, 46, 47, 51,
52, 84
Archiv fiir Kriminologie, reviewed,
183
Archiv fiir Psychiatrie, reviewed, 183
Amheim, Frl., medium, 98
Ashton, F., 9i :
Asports, 13-4
Association of Special Libraries and
Information Bureaux, 156-7, 22
;
the Society's representative elected
to Coimcil of, 116
Astrology, 144
Auditory premonition, case of, 1-4
Austen, Dr H. W. C, donation by,
133
Automatic writing, a case of, 93-5
Aventure, U, reviewed, 76-7
Baerwald, Richard, obituary of, 146-7
BaggaUy, W. W., death of, 13
Baker, A. L., death of, 13
Balfour, Arthur James, Earl of, obitu-
aries of, 5S, 59-60 ;
alleged scrying
experience of, 76-7, 119-20
BaKour, Countess of, case communi-
cated by, 117-8
Balfour, Gerald W., Earl of, 64;
election to Committee of Refer-
ence, 43, 58 ; election to Council,
63
Balfour, Mary, agent in a case of tele-
pathy, 157-8
Balfour, Mr and Mrs R. A. L. See
Traprain, Viscount and Viscoimtess
Barclay, Edwyn, death of, 23
Barlow, Katharine, death of, 23
Barrett, Sir W. ¥.,117
Barthez, Dr, on D. D. Home, 109-10
Barwell, W. Harrison, 4
Becher, Erich, 112
Bedwell, C. E. A., donation by, 133
Bennett, Sir Ernest, " I'he Dew-Men
of Southern Crete," 25 ; elected to
Council, 63
Bergson, Prof. E., 130
Berkeley, Lady, painting of hypna-
gogic visions by, presented to the
Society, 157
Bernstein, Schloss, apparition at,
108-9, 166
164 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Besterman, Theodore, 79 97, 20,
39, 64, 84, 89, 90; elected to
Council of ASLIB, 116 ; represen-
tative of Society at ASLIB Con-
ference, 22-3 ; on clairvoyant phe-
nomena associated with St Columba,
100 ; controversy with Sir A. C.
Doyle, 45-52 ; co-opted to Council,
13, 63; resignation from Council,
23 ;
" Dowsing in Bombay," 129-
30 ; experiments in clairvoyance,
20-1 ;
— in supernormal faculties
of the blind, 10 ; "An Informal
Account of a Four Months' Tour
of Psychical Investigation on the
Continent," 64, 24; re-elected Hon.
Librarian, 43 ;
appointed Librarian
and Editor, 120, 23 ;
reorganiza-
tion of Library, 12, 61 ; note on
a letter from Prof. Schroder, 73 ;
notes on periodicals, 135-6, 152-4,
169-70, 183-6, 16, 56, 87-8, 101-2,
130, 146 ;
reviews, 95-6, 164-5,
10-4, 38, 81-2, 142-4 ; So7ne Modern
Mediums, reviewed, 122-5 ; tour
on the Continent, 11
Biberi, Platon, phantasm of the dead
seen by, 95-8
Bilocations of the self, hallucinatory,
126-8
Bird, J. M., 101 ; on the Schneider
mediumship, 154, 169, 170 ; on
experimental telepathy, 184-5,
56
Black Bear, the " j)sychic pony,"
22-3, 135
Blind, experiments in alleged super-
normal faculties of the, 10, 16
Blood-phenomena, supernormal, 98,
117, 151, 145
Bombay, dowsing in, 129-30
Bond, Major W. C, 23
Bond, P. Bligh, 101
Bonus, A. R., " The Indian Rope-
Trick," 179-80
Books and information, the supply
of, 156-7, 22
Booktest, a pseudo-, 98-9, 122
Bousfield, W. R., 12 ;
appointed to
Council, 13 ; re-elected to Council,
44
Bozzano, Ernesto, and the Millesimo
sittings, 40, 116, 131, 151, 167,
10-4, 39, 40, 45-52, 55, 146 ; on
spirit-communications regarduig
the death crisis, 79, 113, 130
Brackenbury, Mrs, 13, 102, 19, 105,
106 ;
" The Misplaced Tombstone
Case," 64-8 ;
sitting with WiUi and
Rudi Schneider, 2, 11
Bradley, H. Dennis, 120, 15, 40, 46 ;
" The Alleged Exposure of Valian-
tine," 70-1 ;
" A Correction,"
159-61 ; Die Sitzungen mit Valian-
tine in Berlin, reviewed, 85-6
, Mrs H. D., accusation against,
86, 120, 159-61
BriarcUff pony, the, 80
British Broadcasting Corporation,
10, 20
British Journal of Psychical Research,
reviewed, 39, 99, 116, 153
Brittain, Mrs, medium, 19, 135-7
Britten, Mrs E. H., on the spirit in-
spiration of Lincoln, 151
Broad, Dr C. D., co-opted to Council,
57, 58
Brooke, Col. C. K., death of, 23
Brown, Dr William, co-opted to Coun-
cil, 63, 58 ; Science and Personality,
reviewed, 35-7
Bruck, Dr Carl, on telepathy, 126
Brugmans, Dr, 140
Buguet, spirit photographer, 181
Bulletin de I'lnstitut General Psycho-
logique, reviewed, 136
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches
Metapsychiques de Belgique, re-
viewed, 77-8, 115, 166, 54, 127-8
Burnat-Provins, Mme Marguerite,
mediumistic painter, 126-7
Cambridge poltergeist, a, 116, 136
Card-guessing, experiments in, 154,
184, 20-1
Carnegie United Kingdom Trust,
grant by the, 12, 61, 62
Carnock, Lord, death of, 13
Carrington, Hereward, " In Defence
of D. D. Home," 109-11 ; on
levitation, 185 ; The Story of
Psychic Science, reviewed, 141-2
Carruthers, Miss, 13, 21
Cazzamalli, Prof., on cerebral radi-
ations, 99
Census of haUuciaations, proposed
Dutch, 184
Central Library for Students, 156-7, 22
Cerebral radiations, 99
Chenoweth, Mrs. See Soule, Mrs
Chesnut, Granville R., a series of pre-
monitory visions by, 120-6
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 165
China, supernormal phenomena in,
116, 181
Cianci, Pietro, stigmatisation of, 133
Clairvoyance, 144 ; in the detection
of crime, 93, 183 ; distribution of,
184; experimental, 9, 11, 154, 20-1,
108; fraud in, 183; pseudo-, 98-9;
travelling, 4-9
Cleophas, the scripts of, 59-60, 89-91,
148
Colburn (Mayne), Nettie, the spirit
inspiration of Lincoln through,
148-57
Columba, St, clairvoyant phenomena
associated with, 100
Congress for Psychical Research,
Fourth International, notices of, 49,
141, 41, 89, 90, 132 ;
report of, 107-9
Conklmg, the spirit inspiration of
Lincoln through, 150-8
Consciousness, levels of, in trance, 102
Constable, F. C, 45
Control, conditions of, at sittings for
physical phenomena, 163-4, 175-6;
an electrical system of, 3, 65, 163,
170, 176, 125-6, 139-41
Courtier, Jules, on Eusapia Palladino,
136, 150
Crandon, Mrs. See Margery
Crete, apparitions in, 113-4
Crime, the detection of, by mediums,
93-5, 183
Critchley, Macdonald, Mirror- Writ-
ing, reviewed, 96
Crocker, G. G., 144
Cromwell, OUver, spirit commimica-
tions from, 143
Cross-correspondences : the animistic
theory of, 168, 39; between Mrs
Leonard and Ifarger;/, 154; eviden-
tial value of, 69, 49, 81 ; non-
veridical, 159-62 ; the spiritistic
theory of, 27-32, 112.
Cummins, Geraldine, automatist, 39,
81-9; on The Scripts of Cleophas,
60, 89-91, 148
Cunynham, Colonel W. H. Dick-,
spirit- communications from, 81-9
Dallas, H. A., 45 ; Comrades on the
Homeward Wmj, reviewed, 82
;
"Concerning D. D. Home," 17;
review by, 32-3 ;
" The Veley
Scripts," 136-8, 145-6
Damaged gravestone, the case of a,
93-5
David, A., percipient in a case of
" travelling clairvoyance," 4-9
David-Neel, Mme, on supernormal
phenomena in Thibet, 82, 83-4
Dead, apparitions of the, 21, 66-8,
112, 95-8, 133-5
Deane, Mrs A. E., photographic
medium, 55, 84
Death, monitions of, 126 ;
premoni-
tions of, 66-8, 102-4, 120-6, 19
De Brath, Stanley, 45 ; The Drama
of Europe, reviewed, 99-100 ;
The
Felicia Scatcherd Memorial Lecture
1928, reviewed, 73 ; on D. D.
Home, 77-9
Deferred impression during a trance
sitting, 90-2, 112-3
Dermographism, 134, 44, 123
D'Esperance, Mme, medium, 169
Deutsches Vollcsturn, reviewed, 56
Dewar, Lady, " A Pseudo-Booktest,"
122
Diagnosis, supernormal, 40, 82, 83
Dick, Col. Maxwell, 20
Dicksee, Sir Frank, death of, 14
Dietz, Dr P. A., on the paragnostic
dream, 183, 129-30 ; on clairvoy-
ance and its distribution, 184
Dmgwall, E. J., 46, 47, 51, 63;
" The Evidential Value of Certain
Mediumistic Phenomena," review-
ed, 69-72 ; on the crisis in psychi-
cal research, 136 ; on MirabeUi, 130
Direct writing, 183, 55
Dixon, H. N., " Nonsense Names,"
79-80
Dodds, Prof. E. R., appointed to
Council, 13 ; review by, 149 ; re-
elected to Council, 44 ; review by,
149 ;
sittings with Willi and Rudi
Schneider, 2, 11
Douglas, Rev. Dr, death of, 13-4
Dowsmg, 135, 54, 55, 162 ; m Bom-
bay, 129-30
Dowdall, Mrs, medium, 49 ; cross-
correspondence between Mrs Elliott
and, 159-62
Dowden, Mis, medium, 92
Doyle, Sir A. C, obituaries of, 116,
130 ;
resignation of, 45-52 ; on the
spirit inspiration of Lincoln, 148-9,
155
Dreams, paragnostic, 183, 129-30;
prophetic, 109, 129, 145, 164;
submerged memory revived in a,
76 ;
telepathic, 56 ;
veridical, 104-8
166 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Driesch, Hans, 21, 107 ; on Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing, 66
Dudley, E. E., on psychics and
mediums, 80, 99, 118
Duriex, Mme, prevision of winning
numbers at roulette by, 37
Eames, E. G., case of a presentiment
experienced by, 117-8
Eggenberg, poltergeist phenomena
at, 85
Elberfeld horses, the. 111
Electrical control, a system of, 3, 65,
163, 170, 176, 125-6, 139-41
ElUott, Mrs Warren, 108 ; case of
telepathy with, 143-5; cross-corre-
spondence between Mrs Dowdall
and, 159-62 ; deferred impression
during sitting with, 90-2, 112-3
;
investigation of, 10, 11, 5-7, 21 ;
statement at a sitting with, 49
Ellison, Norman F., hallucinatory
bilocations experienced by, 126-8
Encijclopaedda Britannica, The, re-
viev/ed, 164-5
Etudes, reviewed, 18-9, 34, 79, 98,
114, 134-5. 54, 162
Eva C, medium, 65, 132, 134, 32, 40,
88, 123
Everitt, Mrs, medium, 117
Evidence, conditions of, in mental
phenomena, 70-2 ; the psychology
of, 144
Exposures of mediums, 76, 168
Ewen, C. L'Estrange, Witch Himiing
and Witch Trials, reviewed, 81-2
Experiments, in clairvoyance, 9, 11,
154, 20-1, 108 ; in supernormal
faculties of the blind, 10 ; in tele-
pathy, 10, 115, 149, 184-5, 18-9, 20,
44-5, 56, 86, 108 ; trance medium-
ship, 10
Falconer, photographic mediums, 19
Fancher, Mollie, the case of, 71-2
Feilding, Hon. E., 90 ; re-election
to Council, 44 ; resignation from
Council, 18, 23
Finniecome. Mrs Jessie, apparition
seen by, 133-5
Fii-e- walking, 83, 120-1
Fisher, Dr R. A., 20
Flexatone, the, 13, 52
Flournoy, Prof. Th., investigation of
Helene Smith, 178
Flugel, Prof. J. C, 20
Ford, Arthur, medium, 168
Fornis, Enrico, cryptaesthetic me-
dium, 79
Forthuny, Pascal, clairvoyant,
sittings with the Society, 100, 19 ;
exposure of, 87
France, Vicomte Henry de, on
dowsing, 54
Fraud, demonstration of, 11 ; in
mental phenomena, 71-2 ; in phy-
sical phenomena, 163-4, 10-4, 45-52,
109-11, 125-6, 139-41; in polter-
geist phenomena, 78 ; in sujjer-
normal phenomena, 183, 123-4
Freer, Miss Goodrich-, 119
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 12, 133
Gaillard, Joaimy, " magnetiser," 118
Gar^on, Maurice, Vintras, reviewed,
72-3
Gardhier, Prof. H. N., death of, 13
George, Dr H. Trevelyan, death of,
23
George, Mrs Herbert, death of, 23
Goethe, J. W. von, bilocation in, 126
Goldwyn, Dr Jacob, on hj^pnoidaliza-
tion, 186
Gow, Neil, on the investigation of
physical phenomena, 153
Grande Revue, reviewed, 54-5
Gravestone, the case of a damaged,
93-5
Greece, psychical research in, 149
Gregory VII, St, spirit-commxmica-
tions from, 114
Grey of Fallodon, Lady, death of, 14
Groben, poltergeist at, 132-3
Grondahl, I. C, "A Sitting with
Mme Kahl," 43-5
Gruber, Karl, Okkultismus und Bio-
logie, reviewed, 81 ; on WilH
Schneider, 78
Gruzewski, Marj an, medium, 19
Giinther-Geffers, Frau, psychometrist,
21, 94 ; the trial of, 111, 132, 133,
183, 84-5
Gurney, E., on witchcraft, 38
Guzik, J., medium, 19, 20, 38-9, 114,
131, 163
H., Mrs D., apparition seen by, 115
Hack, Gwendolyn KeUey, Modern
Psychic Mysteries, reviewed, 10-4
Hacking case, the, 4
Haiti, supernormal phenomena in,
95-6
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 167
Hallucinations, census of, proposed
Dutch, 184 ;
visual, in conval-
escence, 186
Hallucinatory Bilocations of the Self,
126-8
Hamilton, Dr T. Glen, on teleplasmic
phenomena in Winnipeg, 185-6
Hanussen, Erik Jan, clairvoyant, 132,
101, 144
Hardwicke, Dr, medium, 134
Hart, General Sir Reginald, 45
Hashish, the influence of, on the
unconscious, 83
Hauffe, Friederike, medium, 12S
Havmtings, 24, 78 ;
theory of, 113
Hayward, Col. W. D., 20
Heinisch, Jeremias, poltergeist in the
house of, 132-3
HeUenbach, Baron Lazar, account of,
35
HeUwig, Dr Albert, on clairvoyance
and telepathy, 183 : Okkultismus
und Verbrechm, reviewed, 93-5
Henry, Charles, 127
Hereford, poltergeist phenomena at, 10
Hervey, Mme Jidiette, mediumistic
writer, 126-7
Hessel, Frau, clairvoyant, 35, 166-7
Heuze, Paul, on spiritualistic pheno-
mena, 76-7
Heymans, Prof. G., 146
Hill, J. Arthur, co-opted to Council,
63, 5S ;
Psychical Science and Re-
ligious Belief, reviewed, 32-3 ;
—
and Mrs Henry Sidgwick, " Note
concerning the Hacking Case," 4
Hodgson, Richard, and the spirit
hypothesis, 112, 113, 130
Holmes, S. J., on visual hallucina-
tions, 186
Home, D. D., document concerning,
172-3; the problem of his exposure,
17-8, 77-9, 109-11
Hope, Lord Charles, 4
Hope, WUliam, photographic medium,
115, 116
Hopfgarten poltergeist, the, 95
Houdini, spirit-communications from,
168
Hove, Alois van. La Doctrine du
Miracle chez Saint Thomas, re-
viewed, 38
Howell, Clarke L., on waking sug-
gestion, 186
Huntingdonshire, poltergeist pheno-
mena in, 106
Huxley, Prof. Julian, appeal for per-
cipient broadcast by, 10 ; co-
opted to Council, 63, 58
Hypnagogic visions, paintings of,
presented to the Society, 157
Hypnoidalization, 186
Hypnosis, the production of, by
drugs, 36 ;
telepathy in, 165
Hyslop, J. H., unpublished article
by, 117
Iceland, psychical research in, 129
Idea-motor principle, the, 109, 110
Ideler, Frau, medium, 130, 131
Illig, Johannes, on an apparition,
108-9
Incidents and Discussions, reviewed,
148
India, supernormal phenomena in,
19-20, 79, 129-30, 179-80, 102
Infant prodigy in India, 79
Information, the supply of, 156-7, 22
Ingham, C. B., death of, 14
InstitutMetapsychique International,
142-3
Irving, Rev. W. S., 12
J., C. P., medium for physical pheno-
mena, 115
Jacks, Dr L. P., resignation from
Council, 13
Jephson, Ina, appointed to House and
Finance Committee, 2 ; elected
to —, 43, 58 ;
appointed to Council,
18 ;
co-opted to —, 13, 63 ; ex-
periments in clairvoyance, 9, 154,
20-1 ;
" APseudo-Booktest," 98-9,
122
Johnson, Alice, 60
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., 19, 22, 64 ;
elected to Council, 63 ; elected
President, 13 ; re-elected President,
44, 23 ;
reply to Sir A. C. Doyle,
48-50 ;
" A Submerged Memory
revived in a Dream," 76
Journal de Pst/chologie, reviewed, 16
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psy-
chology, reviewed, 186, 16
Kahl-ToukhoLka, Olga, medium, 79,
134, 20, 43-5, 123-4
Kamiuski, spirit-commimieations
from the actor, 114
Kardec, Allan, 54-5
Kase, Col. S. P., on the spirit inspira-
tion of Lincoln, 148-57
168 hidex to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Katoda, Frau, medium, 130
Keene, IMrs, 23
Kent, Thomas, apparition seen by,
66-8
Kent, poltergeist phenomena in, 105-6
Kephren, K., La Transmission de
Pensee, reviewed, 165
Kerner, Justinus, 128
Kingsdown, apparition at, 19
Kingsley, Isabel, " The Spiritualistic
Hypothesis," 162-3
Klette, Anita, diagnostic medium, 20,
35-6
Klinckowstroem, Count Carl von,
elected a Corresponding Member,
14 ; on the crisis in occultism, 76
;
on a prophetic dream, 162 ; on
spirit- photography, 162
Kluski, Franek, materialisation me-
dium, 37, 115, 152
Konig, Erna, healer, 169
Konnersreuth phenomena, the, 77-8,
79, 114, 132, 152, 168, 181-2, 40
Kordon, F., medium, 84
Krall, Karl, death of, 97, 109, 111,
112
Krasinski, clairvoyance of, 114
Kraus, Karl, demonstration of
methods of deception by, 11, 97
Kroner, Dr W., on Theresa Neumann,
132 ; on the exposure of George
Valiantme, 168, 182-3, 15, 70-1, 85
Kumbakonam (India), poltergeist
phenomena at, 19-20
Lamb, C. C, review by, 15-7
Lambert, G. W., 12, 105 ;
appointed
to Council, 13
Lambert, Rudolf, 101, 120 ; on Eva C,
131-2 ; on Frau Giinther-Geffers,
111, 132, 133 ; on the MUlesimo
sittings, 11, 39, 40, 35, 64 ; on
Mrs Soule, 100
Lambeth, poltergeist at, 19
Lang, Andrew, 119
Laplace, Jeanne, medium, 180
Lavater, Lewes, Of Ghostes and
Spirites walking by Night, reviewed,
38
Law of New York relating to spirit-
ualism, 173-5
Leaning, Mrs F. E., 157
Lectures pour tons, reviewed, 181
Lee, Blewett, " The Change in the Law
of New York relating to Spiritual-
ism," 173-5
Lena Singh, Indian soothsayer, 130
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, 108 ; discussion
of Mr Dravton Thomas's sittings
with, 51-9 : "sittings with, 92, 153-4,
36, 49 ; auditory premonition ex-
perienced by, 1-4
L'Estrange, G. P., medium, 166, 128,
146
Lettura, La, reviewed, 99
Levitation, theory of, 185
Liebieg, Baroness, apparition of, 133-5
Lincoln, Abraham, the inspiration of,
by spirits, 102, 148-57
Llanhilleth, poltergeist phenomena
at, 10
Lloyd, Metropolitan-Archbishop Fre-
deric, hallucinatory bilocation ex-
perienced by, 128
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 126, 143, 35, 89, 90 ;
elected to Committee of Reference,
43, 58 ; elected to Council, 63
;
Myers Memorial Lecture, 173, 19,
22 ;
" On the Asserted Difficulty of
the Spiritualistic Hypothesis from
a Scientific Pomt of View," 102, 24 ;
Phantom Walls, reviewed, 52-3 ; on
the Scripts of Cleophas, 91 ; on
spiritualism, 165
Lombroso, Cesare, spirit commimica-
tions from, 143
London, S.W., poltergeist phenomena
in, 104-5
Lyall, Major Edward, death of, 23
Lynn, T., apport medium, 153
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs Alfred, co-opted
to Council, 13, 63, 58
McConnel, Mrs David R., death of, 23
McDougall, Prof. VV., elected to Coun-
cil, 63
Mackenzie, Dr and Mrs H. M., 12
Mango-trick, the, 22
Mangtuyan King, infant prodigy, 79
Margery, medium, 23-4, 40, 78, 97,
117, 133, 150, 154, 185, 16, 54, 56,
88, 101, 102, 124 ; unofficial sittings
in the Societv's seance-TOom., 141,
156, 21, 146
'
Marion, Fred, clairvoyant, 144
Mason, Mrs, medium, 23, 56, 74-5
Mattiesen, E., "A Reply to Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo," 27-
32 ; on the spiritualistic interpre-
tation of cross-correspondences,
112 ; on the animistic theory of
cross-correspondences, 168, 39
Mayne, Nettie. See Colburn, Nettie.
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 169
Mediums, detection of crime by, 93-5 ;
exposures of, 76, 168 ; and psychics,
80, 99, 118
Mediums :
Amheim, Frl., 98
Brittain, Mrs, 19, 135-7 ;
Buguet,
181 ; Burnat-Provins, Mme M.,
126-7
Colbum, Nettie, 148-57 ; Conk-
ling, 150-8 ;
Cummins, G., 39, 60,
81-91, 148
Deane, Mrs, 55, 84; D'Esperance,
Mme, 169 ; Dowdall, Mrs, 49, 159-
62 ; Dowden, Mrs, 92
Elliott, Mrs Warren, 10, 11, 49,
108, 143-5, 159-62, 5-7, 21, 90-2,
112-3 ; Eva C, 65, 132, 134, 32, 40,
88, 123 ;
Everitt, Mrs, 117
Falconer, 19; Ford, A., 168;
Fomis, E., 79 ;
Forthuny, P., 100,
19, 87
Gaillard, J., 118 ; Gruzewski, M.,
19 ;
Giinther-Geffers, Frau, 21, 94,
111, 132, 133, 183, 84-5 ; Guzik, J.,
19, 20, 38-9, 114, 131, 163
Hanussen, E. J., 132, 101, 144 ;
Hardwicke, Dr, 134 ; Hauffe, F.,
128; Hervey, Mme J., 126-7;
Hessel, Frau, 35, 166-7 ; Home,
D. D., 17-8, 172-3, 77-9, 109-11 ;
Hope, W., 115, 116
Ideler, Frau, 130, 131
J., C. P., 115
Kahl, Olga, 79, 134, 20, 43-5,
123-4; Katoda,Yi&u, 130; Keene,
Mrs, 23 ;
Klette, A., 20, 35-6
;
Kluski, F., 37, 115, 15i ;
Kordon,
F., 84 ;
Kraus, K., 11, 97
Laplace, J., 180 ; Lena Singh,
130 ;
Leonard, Mrs, 51-9, 92, 153-4,
1-4, 36, 49, 108 ;
L'Estrange, G. P.,
166, 128, 146 ;
Lynn, T., 153
Margery, 23-4, 40, 78, 97, 117,
133, 141, 150, 154, 156, 185, 16,
21, 54, 56, 88, 101, 102, 124;
Marion, F., 144 ;
Mason, Mrs, 23,
56, 74-5 ;
Melzer, H., 151, 168, 84,
129; Slirabem, C, 130, 142-4;
Moecke, M., 85, 130 ;
Molnar, V.,
78 ; Moses, Rev. W. S., 146
N., Frau, 21 ; Nielsen, E., 112 ;
Nusslein, H., 39
Ossowiecki, S., 97
Paleas, 130 ;
Palladino, E., 40,
136, 150, 151, 50, 88 ; Pipers, Mrs,
99, 9-10, 47, 49, 108, 122-3 ;
Plaat,
L., 20, 34-5, 111, 150, 182, 20, 102,
128
Rasmussen, A., 15-7, 38, 55, 84,
100 ;
Rautenberg, M., 131 ;
Regul-
ski, L., 168, 39 ;
Reimann, 0., 145
;
Rossi, F., 40, 11, 14, 51 ;
Rudloff,
Frau, 38, 74, 98
S., Hedwig, 145 ; S., Oskar, 2 ;
Salzer, R., 144 ;
Sandshaya Madhu,
79 ;
Sauerbrev, 95 ;
Schermann,
86 ;
Sclmeider, Rudi, 109, 163, 169,
170, 185, 15, 39, 84, 101, 125-6,
139-41, 145 ;
—, Rudi and Willi,
3, 65-6, 154, 16, 101 ; —, Willi,
78, 50 ; Scotto, Marchese C, 40,
116, 131. 151, 167, 10-4, 39, 40,
45-52, 55-6, 64, 146; Silbert, M.,
35, 39, 55, 123; Slade, H., 20;
Slowacki, 114; Smith, Helene,
178; vSoule, Mrs, 92, 147, 100;
Steha C, 126
T., Minna, 21 ;
Thompson, Mrs,
27-8
Vahantme, G., 168, 182-3, 15, 40,
46, 54, 70-1, 85-6, 101
Weissl, F., 85; Williams, Mrs
M. E., 102, 148-57; Wolter, K., 95
Z., M. R. de, 133, 85
Medizinische Welt, Die, reviewed,
76
Melzer, Heinrich, medium, 151, 168,
84, 129
Memory, the psychology of, 138 ;
submerged, revived in a dream,
76
Ilensagens do Alem obtidas . . . atravez
do celehre Medium Mirabelli, re-
viewed, 142-4
Meyer, Jean, 142-3
Mickiewicz, A., clairvoyance of, 114
Mikuska, Mme, premonitory dream
of, 129, 145
Miles, Clarissa, obituary of, 116-7
Millar, G. R. M., "Fire-WaDdng in
Perak," 120-1
Millesimo sittings, the, 40, 116, 131,
151, 167, 10-4, 39, 40, 45-52, 55-6,
64, 146
Mirabelli, Carlos, medium, 130, 142-4
Mirror-writmg, 96
Misplaced tombstone case, the, 64-8
Mistake, psychology of a, 137-8
Mitchell, T. W., elected to Committee
of Reference, 43, 58 ;
obituary by,
42-3 ; review by, 35-7
Moecke, Max, clairvoyant, 85, 130
170 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Moll, Albert, Psi/cJwlogie und Charak-
terologie der Okkultisten, reviewed,
32-5
Molnar, Vilma, poltergeist medium, 78
Monatschrift filr Kriminalpsychologie,
reviewed, 183
Monistische Monatshefte, reviewed, 22
Monitions of death, 126
Morio, M., on D. D. Home, 710
Moses, Rev. W. Stain ton, 146
Murphy, Prof. Gardner, 184, 20
Murray, Prof. Gilbert, resignation
from Council, 13
Musset, A. de, bilocations in, 126
Myers, F. W. H., 47, 49, 50, 82;
Memorial Lecture, 140, 173, 19,
21-2 ; Memorial Lectureship Fund,
142, 172, 173, 21-2; bibliography
of, 173, 19
Myers, jMrs F. W. H., 21
Mysticism and psychical research, 133
N., Frau, clairvoyant, 21
Names, nonsense, psychology of, 5-8,
79-80, 113-4
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, proposed amalgamation
of, with the Society, 148, 157-9
Neumann, Theresa, phenomena of,
77-8, 79, 114, 132, 152, 168, 181-2,
40
New York, law of, relating to spirit-
uaUsm, 173-5
Newcastle, Duke of, death of, 14
Newton, Isaac, spirit communications
from, 143
Newton, Isabel, 60
Nielsen, Einar, medium for physical
phenomena, 112
Nonsense names, psychology of, 5-8,
79-80, 113-4
Nostradamus, 36
Notes on Periodicals. See Reviews.
Numerology, 144
Nusslein, Heinrich, automatic paint-
ings by, 39
Obsession, 23, 39, 135, 150, 154, 169,
16, 102
Ockley, Simon, on a Cambridge
poltergeist, 116, 136
O'Dell, A. E., 105
O'Doherty, Father John, 107-8
Ossowiecki, Stefan, clairvoyant. 97
Osty, Dr E., 45 ; discussion of his
views on telepathy and the evidence
for survival, 50-9 ;
investigation of
prevision by, 34 ; on supernormal
artists, 126-7 ; on supernormal diag-
nosis, 40, 82, 83 ; on Theresa Neu-
mann, 40 ; on " vision de soi," 126
Ottley, Canon H. Bickersteth, " The
Scripts of Cleophas," 89-91
Ouija board, information super-
normally acquired on the, 81-9
Padey, B., on dowsing, 162 '
Paintings of hypnagogic visions pre-
sented to the Society, 157
Paleas, medium, 130
Palladino, Eusapia, 136, 150, 50, 88 ;
spirit-voice of, 40, 151
Palmistry, 144
Paragnostic dreams, 183, 129-30
Patten, Henry J., donation by, 133
Pearson, Dr E. S-, 20
Peckham, Orville, death of, 13
Perak, fire- walking in, 120-1
Percival, Francis W., obituary of,
66
Periodicals, Notes on. See Reviews.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count,
70-1, 122; "The Conditions of
Control at Sittings for Physical
Phenomena," 163-4, 175-6; "A
Correction," 120, 159-61 ; on D. D.
Home, 18, 172, 25, 77-9, 109-11;
Notes on Periodicals, 18-22, 34-8,
76-9, 97-8, 108-15, 150-2, 165-9,
180-3, 15-6, 38-40, 54-6, 82-6, 100-1,
126-30, 144-6, 162; obituary by,
146-7; "A Phantasm of the Dead
conveying Information unknown to
the Percipient," 95-8 ; a reply to,
by Dr Mattiesen, 27-32 ; reviews,
72-3, 32-5
Perry, Thomas S., death of, 24
Personality, cases of divided, 71-2
Phantasms of the dead, 21, 95-8
Photography, supernormal, 37, 108-9,
115, 116, 117, 118, 181, 183, 19,
55, 84, 162
Physical phenomena, accoimts of, 99-
100; articles on, 22; attitude of
S.P.R. to, 74-5 ; conditions of con-
trol at, 163-4, 175-6; the conduct
of investigations into, 153 ; fraud
in, 11, 163-4, 10-4, 45-52, 109-11,
125-6, 139-41 ; need of uavestiga-
tion of, 11-2 ; relation to Spiritual-
ism, 73; Schrenck-Notzing's work
on, 65-6
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 171
Piddington, J. G., 12 ; elected to Com-
mittee of Reference, 43, 58 ; elected
to Council, 44- ;
obituary of the Earl
of BaHour, 59-60
Piper, Alta L., The Life and Work of
Mrs Piper, reviewed, 9-10
Piper, Mrs, 99, 9-10, 47, 49, 108, 122-3
Plaat, Lotte, psychometrist. 20, 34-5,
111, 150, 182, 20, 102, 128
Podmore, Frank, 46, 47, 51
Pogson, Major C. A., dowser, 129-30
Poland, psychical research in, 169
PoUok, Hon. Mrs Dighton, 24
Poltergeist phenomena, at : Cam-
bridge, 116, 136; China, 181;
Eggenberg, 85; Groben, 132-3;
Hereford, 10 ;
Hopfgarten, 95
;
Huntingdonshire, 106 ;
India, 102 ;
Kent, 105-6 ;
Kumbakonam, 19-
20 ; Lambeth, 19 ; Llanhilleth, 10 ;
London, S.W., 104-5 ;
Resau, 95 ;
Ross, 10 ; St Neots, 19, investiga-
tion of, 61, 104-7; Wales, 106
Possession, 113, 150, 168
Premonitions, auditory. 1-4 ; of death,
cases of, 66-8, 102-4, 19, 82-3
Premonitory visions, a series of, 120-6
Presentiment, case of a, acted on,
117-8
Prevision, 102 ; of winning numbers
at roulette, 37 ; the evidence for,
34 ;
theory, 182
Price, Harry, correspondence with the
Society, 148, 157-9 ;
sittings with
Rudi Schneider, 163, 169, 170, 185,
125-6, 139-41, 145 ; Rndi Schneider,
reviewed, 125-6
Prince, Dr Morton, obituaries of, 23,
42-3
Prince, Dr W. E., 174, 39, 109;
" The Aetiology of a '
Psychical
'
Legend," 148-57; elected Presi-
dent, 58 ; Presidential Address,
58, 116 ; Pseudo- Prophecies and
Pseudo-Science, reviewed, 144
;
" The Psychology of a Mistake,"
137-8 ; on sittings with Rudi
Schneider, 109 ; on tests for histori-
city, 148 ; Tivo Old Cases Reviewed,
reviewed, 71-2
Proceedings of the American S.P.R.,
reviewed, 185
Proceedings of the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research, reviewed,
152-3
Prophecies, pseudo-, 144
Prophetic dreams, 109-10, 129, 145,
162
Psychic Research, reviewed, 15-7, 23-4,
38-9, 39-40, 80, 99-100, 117-8, 135-6,
153-4, 169-70, 184-5, 16, 56, 101-2,
130
Psychica, reviewed, 87
^I'XiKcii Epei'j'ai, reviewed, 149
Psychical research. Congress of, 49,
141, 41, 89, 90, 107-9, 132 ; crisis
in, 136 ;
English and Continental
types of, 108 ; established facts in,
167-8 ; in Iceland, 129 ; method in,
73-5, 115, 32-5, 36 ; and mj'sticism,
133 ; and psychoanalysis, 129-30 ;
relation to physiological theories,
117 ;
terminology of, 15, 109
Psychoanalysis and psychical re-
search, 129-30
Psychological Review, reviewed, 186
Psychology of evidence, 144 ; of a
mistake, i57-S ; of nonsense names,
5-8, 79-80, 113-4
Psychometry, 72, 90-2, 112, 128;
theory of, 20, 111, 182, 130, 144-5
Puberty, relation of, to poltergeist
phenomena, 106-7
Putnam, Irene, donation by, 133
Quarterly Transactions of the British
College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
reviewed, 22-3, 40, 116-7, 153,
185-6, 56, 102, 146
Rabelais, Frangois, spirit- voice of, 40
Radiations, human, 99, 117
Ramsden, Hermione, 117
Rapport, telepathic, between mother
and child, 81
Raps, supernormal, 151, 40
Rasmussen, Anna, medium, 15-7, 38,
55, 84, 100
Rautenberg, Max, medium, 131
Reade, Herbert V., death of, 24
Realist, The, reviewed, 136
Reflectograph, the, 19
Regulski, Lucie, poltergeist medium,
168, 39
Reimann, Otto, metagraphologist, 145
Resau poltergeist, the, 95
Renter, Florizel von. 129
Reviews. Books
:
Allison, L. W,, Leonard and Soule
Experiments, 92-3
Besterman, Th., Some Modern
Mediums, 122-5; Bradley, H. D.,
172 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Reviews
—
Contd.
Die Sitzungen mit Valiavtine, 85-6;
Brown, W., Science and Personality,
35-7
Carrington, H., The Story of
Psychic Science, 141-2 ;
Critchley,
M., Mirror-Writing, 96
Dallas, H. A., Comrades on the
Homeward Way, 82 ; De Bratli, S.,
The Drama of Europe, 99-100;
—, The Felicia Scatcherd Memorial
Lecture, 73
The Encyclopaedia Britannica,
164-5; Ewen, C. L'E., Witch
Hunting, 81-2
Gar^on, M., Vintras, 72-3
;
Gruber, K., Okkultismus und Biol-
ogic, 81
Hack, G. K., Modern Psychic
Mysteries, 10-4 ;
Hellwig, A.,
Okkultismus mid Verhrechen, 93-5 ;
Hill, J. A., Psychical Science and
Religious Belief, 32-3 ; Hove, A.
van. La Doctrine du Miracle, 38
Incidents and Discussions, 148
Kephren, K., La Transmission
de Pensee, 165
Lavater, L., Of Ghostes and
Spirites icalking by Night, 38 ;
Lodge, Sir 0., Phantom Walls, 52-3
Mensagens doAlem, 142-4 ;
Moll,
A., Psychologic und Charakterologie
der OkkuUisten, 32-5
Piper, A. L., The Life and Work
of Mrs Piper, 9-10 ;
Price, H., Rudi
Schneider, 125-6 ;
Prince, W. F.,
Two Old Cases Reviewed, 71-2
Schole, H., Okkultismus und
Wissenschaft, 96 ; Schrenck-Notz-
ing, A. von, Gesammelte Aufsdtze,
37-8 ;
Seabrook, W. B., The Magic
Island, 95-6 ;
Suringar, J. V.,
Verschijnselen van Gedachten-
Overdracht, 95
Thomas, J. F., Case Studies
hearing upon Survival, 147-8 ;
Tubby, G. 0., James H. Hyslop -X
his Book, 37
WeUs, H. G., J. Huxley and G.
P. Wells, The Science of Life, 87-8
—— Periodicals :
Archiv fiir Kriminologie, 183 ;
Archiv fiir Psychiatric, 183 ;
UAvenfure, 76-7
British Journal of Psychical
Research, 39, 99, 116, 153; Bul-
letin de Vlnstitul General Psycho-
logique, 136 ; Bulletin du Conseil
de Recherches Metapsychiques, 77-8,
115, 166, 54, 127-8
Deutches Volkstum, 56
Etudes, 18-9, 34, 79, 98, 114, 134-5,
54, 162 . :
Grande Revue, 54-5
Jotirnal de Psychologic, 16
;
Journal of Ahnormal and Social
Psychology, 186, 16
Lectures pour tous, 181 ; La
Lettura, 99
Die medizinische Welt, 76
;
Monatschrift fiir Kriminalpsycho-
logie, 183 ; Monistische Monat-
sheffe, 22
Proceedings of the American
S.P.R., 185 ;
Proceedings of the
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, 152-3 ;
Psychic Research,
15-7, 23-4, 38-9, 39-40, 80, 99-100,
117-8, 135-6, 153-4, 169-70, 184-5,
16, 56, 101-2, 130 ;
PsycMca, 87 ;
4'uxt«:ai Epevuai, 149 ;
Psychological
Review, 186
Quarterly Transactions of the
British College of Psychic Science,
Ltd., 22-3, 40, 116-7, 153, 185-6, 56,
102, 146
The Realist, 136 ; Revue Calho-
liques des idees et des fails, 181-1 ;
Revue de Paris, 83-4 ; Revue des
questions scientifiques, 55 ; Revue
Metapsychique, 19-20, 36-7, 97,
134, 150, 165-6, 180-1, 40, 82-3,
126-7; Revue Spirite, 79, 112-4,
130
Scherls Magazin, 162
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie,
183-4
Die Umschau, 162
Zaga^nifenia Metapsychiczne,
114-5, 169, 86; Zeitschrift fiir
Medizinalbeamte, 183 ;
Zeitschrift
fiir Parapsychologie, 20-1, 34-6,
78-9, 108-12, 131-4, 151-2, 166-8,
182-3, 15-6, 38-9, 55-6, 84-6, 100-1,
128-30, 144-6; Zeitschrift fiir
psychische Forschung, 21-2, 38, 98,
112, 130-1, 150-1, 168-9, 39-40
Revue Catholiqjie des idees et des fails,
reviewed, 181-2
Revue de Paris, reviewed, 83-4
Revue des questions scientifiques, re-
viewed, 55 i
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 173
ReTme Metapst/chique, reviewed, 19-20,
36-7, 97, 134, 150, 165-6, 180-1,
40, 82-3, 126-7
Revue Spirite, reviewed, 79, 112-4, 130
Ehine, J. and L. E., 16
Richet, Prof. Charles, 82, 83, 126
Rope-triok, the Indian, 179-80
Rose, Major Rampling-, 12
Ross, apparition and poltergeist
phenomena at, 10
Rossi, Fabienne, mediumistic pheno-
mena of, 40, 11, 14, 51
RudloS, Frau, medium for physical
phenomena, 38, 74. 98
Rutot, A., 126, 127-8
S., Hedwig, blood phenomena of, 145
S., Oskar, exposure of, 2
Sage, M., on R. Hodsfson and the
spirit hypothesis, 112^, 113, 130
St Neots, poltergeist at, 19
Salter, W. H., 89, 90, 101 ; elected to
Committee of Reference and House
and Finance Committee, 43, 58 ;
financial statements by, 44, 60-3 ;
" The Recent Congress at Athens,"
104, 107-9; reply to Sir A. C.
Doyle, 48-50 ; review by, 141-2 ;
re-elected Hon. Secretary and Hon.
Treasurer, 42, 58
Salter, Mrs W. H., re-elected Hon.
Editor, 43, 58 ; resignation as
Hon. Editor of Journal, 1 19-20, 23 ;
elected to House and Finance Com-
mittee, 43, 58 ; Notes on Periodi-
cals, 22-4, 38-40, 80, 99-100, 116-8 ;
review, 37 ;
" Some Incidents
occurring at Sittings with Mrs
Leonard which may throw Light
on the Modus Operandi," 26
Saltmarsh, H., F. 10, 21; "A De-
ferred Impression durmg a Trance
Sitting," 112-3; " Non-Veridical
Cross-Correspondences," 159-62 ;
" Notes on the Psychology of Non-
sense Names," 5-8, 80; "A Report
on the Investigation of Some
Sittings with Mrs Warren EUiott,"
64, 24
Salzer, Richard, clairvoyant, 144
Samuels, Jane, telepathic perci-
pient, 39
Sanders, Rev. C. B., the case of, 71-2
Sandshaya Mahdu, supernormal fac-
ulties of, 79
Sauerbrey, poltergeist medium, 95
Scatcherd, Felicia, lecture in memory
of, 73
Scherls Magazin, reviewed, 162
Schermann, Rafael, psychographolo-
gist, 86
Schiller, F. C. S., elected to Coimcil,
44 ;
" The Conditions of Control
at Sittings for Physical Pheno-
mena," 175-6 ; review by, 52-3 ;
on the spirit hypothesis, 162, 8-9,
68-9
Schneider, Rudi, medium, 109, 163,
169, 170, 185, 15, 39, 84, 101,
126-5, 139-41, 145
, Rudi and WilU, mediums, 3,
65-6, 154, 16, 101
, Willi, medium, 78, 50
Schole, Heinrich, Okkultismus und
Wissenschaft, reviewed, 96
Sehrenck-Notzing, Freiherr A. von,
20, 33 ; Gesammelte A^tfsatze zur
Para-psi/chologie, reviewed, 37-8 ;
investigation of an apparition by,
108; obituaries of, 62, 64-6, 110,
111, 112, 131-2, 134, 135, 23; on
poltergeist phenomena, 78 ;
sittings
in the laboratory of, 2-3, 11
Schroder, Christoph, 21 ;
" Con-
cerning Method in Psychical In-
vestigation," 74-5 ; relations of the
S.P.R. with, 73, 75-6 ;
investiga-
tions of, 130, 131
Scott, Sydney C, 12 ; elected to
House and Finance Committee,
43, 58
Scotto, Marchese Centurione, me-
diumistic phenomena of, 40, 116,
131, 151, 167, 10-4, 39, 40, 45-52,
55-6, 64, 146
Scripts of Cleophas, The, 59-60, 89-91,
148
Scrying, alleged experience of the
Earl of Balfour, 76-7, 119-20
Seabrook, W. B., The Magic Island,
reviewed, 95-6
Seiling, Max, death of, 35
Senior, Prof. Nassau, sitting with
D. D. Home, 172
Sibly, Dr F. A., death of, 24
SidgAvick, Mrs Henry, 12 ; "A Case
of Telepathv," 137-8 ;
" Another
Case of Telepathy," 25-32 ;
" A
Correction," 76-7, 119-20 ; elected
to Committee of Reference, 43, 58 ;
reply to Sir A. C. Doyle, 48-50 ;
reviews by, 69-72, 92-3, 147-8, 71-2,
174 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
144 ; re-elected Hon. Secretary,
42, 58 ; on trance mediumship,
31 ; —, J. A. Hill and, " Note
concerning the Hacking Case," 4
Silbert, Maria, medium, 35, 39, 55,
123
Simmonds, Miss, legacy to the Society
by, 44
Slade, H., mediun:, reminiscences of,
20
Sleep, problems of, 16
Sloggett, General Sir Ai'thur, death
of, 24
Slowacki, clairvoyance of, 114 ;
spirit-
communications from, 114
Smith, Mrs Bowden-, death of, 23
Smith, Helene, medium, 178
Smith, W. S. Montgomery, 91-2, 112
Smith, W. Whately, elected to Com-
mittee of Reference, 43, 5S ; co-
opted to Council, 63, 5S ; review
by, 122-5
Smithson, Mrs, death of, 13 ;
legacy
to the Society, 13, 44
Soal, S. G., co-opted to Council, 13,
63, 58 ; experiments in clairvoy-
ance, 20-1 ;
— in telepathy, 10,
20 ;
" Experiments in Supernormal
Perception at a Distance," 148 ;
identified with Mr V., 163 n. ;
" The Spiritualistic Hypothesis,"
176-9, 68-9 ;
" The Veley Scripts,"
145-6
Society for Psychical Research, Ac-
counts of, 46-8, 63, 156, IS, 26-9,
58, 60, 89, 116 ;
amalgamation,
proposed, of National Laboratory
of Psychical Research with, 148,
157-9 ; Articles of Association,
revision of, 12-3, 45, 23 ;
Associates,
Hon., election of, 43, 58, 103;
Auditors, election of, 43 ; Bank
Account, transfer of, 102, 24 ; Com-
mittee of Reference and Publica-
tion, election of, 43, 58 ; Conver-
sazione, 2-3 ;
Corresponding Mem-
bers, death of, 23 ; —, election of,
14, 43, 58 ;
, Council, annual reports of, 9-14,
19-25 ; —,
appointments to, 13,
18 ;
co-optations to, 13, 63, 57,
58 ; —, election of, 44 : —, meet-
ings of, 1-2, 26, 42-3, 62-3, 119-20,
140-1, 17-8, 41, 57-8, 89, 103-4, 116,
147-8 ; —,
resignations from, 13,
18, 23 ; donations to, 133 ;
gift to.
157 ; House and Finance Com-
mittee, co-optation to, 2 ; —, elec-
tion of, 43, 58 ;
Journal, change
of editorship. 119-20, 23; —,
pri-
vate nature of, 102, 114 ;
legacies
to, 44 ;
library, reorganisation of,
102, 44 ;—,
report of, 22-3, 61 ;
, meetings, 14, 26, 64, 102, 172-
3, 18-9, 24-5, 104, 116, 148 ; —
,
Annual Genera], 43-4, 24, 60-4 ; —
,
Extraordinary General, 45, 63-4,
24; Members, death of, 13-4, 23-4,
42-3, 58 ;
— new, 1, 14, 26, 42, 62,
101, 119, 140, 156, 172, 17, 41, 57,
89, 103, 147; Myers Memorial
Lecture, 140, 142, 172, 173, 19,
21-2; Officers, election of, 42-3,
58 ;
President, election of, 13, 58 ;
—, re-election of, 42, 23 ; Pro-
ceedings, 14, 24 ;
publications,
second-hand sets of, 132 ; Research
Department, 19-20, 60-1 ; —Fund,
44 ;
iSea?!ce-Room, sittings in the,
11, 141, 21, 61, 63 ;
sittings on
behalf of, 11, 100, 19-20
, attitude of, to the physical
phenomena, 74-5 ; Sir A. C. Doyle's
resignation from, 45-52 ; relations
with Prof. Schroder, 73, 75-6
Soule (Chenoweth), Mrs, medium, 92,
147, 100
Sparkos, Mrs, case of automatic writ-
ing by, 93-5
Spirit communications, about the
death crisis, 79, 113, 130; instru-
ment for receiving, 19-20 ;
through
the ouija-boards, 81-9
Spiritualism, P. Heuze on, 76-7 ;
the law of New York relating to,
173-5 ; relation to physical phe-
nomena, 73
Spiritualistic hypothesis, the, 162-3,
176-9, 8-9, 68-9 ; Sir A. C. Doyle
and, 48-9 ; R. Hodgson and, 112,
113, 130; interpretation of cross-
correspondences, 27-3^-, 112 ;
—of
the Veley scripts, 36-8, 145-6
Spoer, Mrs, 119
Spranger, J. A., " The Scripts of
Cleophas," 59-60
Steel, Mrs Flora Annie, death of, 24
Stella C, medium, 126
Sbigmatisation, cases of, 133, 129
Strachey, Mrs St Loe, 172, 173
Stratton, Professor F. J. M., " Some
Haunted Houses," 19, 25
Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI 175
Submerged memory revived in a
dream, 76
Sudre, Rene, on a " magnetLser," 118
Suggestion, pre-natal, 38, 98 ;
making, 186
Suringar, J. Valckenier, Verschijnselen
van Gedachten-Overdracht, reviewed,
95
Survival, the belief in, 21 ; evidence
for, in trance-mediumship, 27-32 ;
the nature of, 33 ; discussion of
ilr Drayton Thomas's evidence for,
50-9 ; studies bearing on, 147-8 ;
" proof " of, 53
Svenska Centralen for Psykisk For-
shning, formation of, 133
T., Minna, phantasms of the dead
experienced by, 21
Tanagras, Dr Angelos, 149, 107 ;
elected an Hon. Associate, 103 ;
on prophecy, 182, 145
Telegraphic, dream, 56 ;
rapport
between mother and child, 81
Telepathy, cases of, 143-5, 157-8,
25-32 ; in the detection of crime,
93-5, 183 ; evidence in, 70-2 ; and
the evidence for survival, 50-9 ;
experiments in, 10, 18-9, 115, 149,
184-5, 20, 44-5, 56, 69, 86, 108 ;
in hypnosis, 165 ; and imagination,
127 ;
pseudo-, 96 ; spontaneous,
126 ; and the subconscious, 165-6
Teleplasmic phenomena in Winni-
peg, 185, 56
Terminology of psychical research, 15
Testimony, the psychology of, 144
Thibet, supernormal phenomena in,
83-4
Thomas, Rev. Drayton, discussion of
his case for survival, 50-9
Thomas, Ernest S., " Notes on a
Sitting with IMrs Brittain," 135-7;
" A Suggested Experiment in Tele-
pathy," 69
Thomas, John F., Case Studies bearing
upon Survival, reviewed, 147-8
Thompson, Mrs, the trance-medium-
ship of, 27-8
Tijdschrift voor Parapsyclwlogie, re-
viewed, 183-4, 146
Tischner, Dr R., on the ideo-motoric
principle, 109, 110 ; article on. 111
Tombstone case, the misjjlaced, 64-8
Trance : mediumship, 10, 11, 27,
100 ;
—sitting, deferred impression
during a, 90-2, 112-3 ; levels of
consciousness in, 102
Traprain, Viscount and Viscountess,
case of telepathy, 25-32
Trethewy, A. W., "Life Beyond
Death with Evidence," 50-9 ; re-
views by, 9-10, 99-100
Trumpet-mediumship, 168
Tubby, Gertrude Ogden, James H.
Hysloji-X his Book, reviewed, 37
Uhland, J. L., spirit-communication
from, 98
Umschau, Die, reviewed, 162
V, Mr. See Soal, S. G.
Vachere, Abbe, blood-phenomena
connected with, 98, 151
Valiantine, George, 54 ;
exposure of,
168, 182-3, 15~ 40, 46, 70-1, 85-6,
101
Vandermeulen, Henri, spirit-com-
munications from, 127-8
Vangel, Baroness von, 130-1
Vaughan, E. L., 93
Veley scripts, the, 136-8, 145-6, 101
Velsen, Prosper van, spirit-com-
munications from, 128
Vinen, N. H., 12, 140, 23
Vintras, P. E. M., supernormal phe-
nomena of, 72-3
Visions, hj'pnagogic, paintings of,
presented to the Society, 157 ; pre-
monitory, 120-6
Visual hallucinations in convales-
cence, 186
Voice phenomena, supernormal, 40,
116, 151, 11-4, 54, 86, 145
Wales, poltergeist phenomena in, 106
Wales, Hubert, "Cross-Correspond-
ences," 81
Walker, May, 2, 11
Walker, Nea, case contributed by,
1-3, 135, 136
Wallace, Dr Abraham, obituary of, 43
War, prophetic dream regarding the,
109-10
Warcollier, Rene, on telepathy, 165-6,
127
WVissl, Frieda, medium. 85
Wells, H. G., JuHan Huxley, and G.
P. Wells, The Science of Life, re-
viewed, 87-8
White case, the, evidence for survival,
29-30
176 Index to Vols. XXV and XXVI
Wild, Ida, " Nonsense Names," 113-4
Williams, Mrs M. E., medium, and
Lincoln's abolition of slavery, 102,
148-57
Wilson, S. W. R.. "Note on the
Mediumship of Mrs Mason," 74-5
Winnipeg, teleplasmic phenomena in,
185-6, 56
Winterstein, Baron A. von, 129,
133
Winther, C, " Experiments in
Telekinesis," reviewed, 15-7
Witchcraft, 38, 81-2
Wolter, Karl, poltergeist medium, 95
WooUey, Dr V. J., elected to Com-
mittee of Reference, 43, 58; — to
Council, 63 : — to House and
Finance Committee, 43, 58 ;
reply
to Mr H. Price, 140-1 ; re-elected
Hon. Research Officer, 42, 58
;
reviews, 99, 37-8, 125-6 ; on
sittings in the seawce-room, 63
;
sittings with Willi and Rudi
Schneider, 3, 11 ;
" Some Investi-
gations into Poltergeists," 104-7
Wright, Dr M. B., elected to CounoU,
44
Writing, automatic, a case of, 93-5 ;
direct, 183, 55
X., Chamberlain, 163, 163
Xenoglossy at Konnersreuth, 77-8
Z., Maria Reves de, psychometrist,
133, 85
Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne, re-
viewed, 114-5, 169, 86
Zeitschrift fur Medizinalheamte, re-
viewed, 183
Zeitschrift fur Parajisychologie, re-
viewed, 20-1, 34-6, 78-9, 108-12,
131-4, 151-2, 166-8, 182-3, 15-6,
38-9, 55-6, 84-6, 100-1, 128-30,
144-6
Zeitschrift filr Psychische Forschung,
reviewed, 21-2, 38, 98, 112, 130-1,
150-1, 168-9, 39-40
Zollner, J. C. P., reminiscences of, 20
PniKTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
