{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V28 1933-34","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v28_1933-34.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V28 1933-34","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOL. XXVIII
1933—1934
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.i.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/journalofsociety28soci
CONTENTS
PAGB
A Veridical Dream - -- -- -- - 3
Annual Report of the Council for the Year 1932 - - - 19
The Question of the Possibility of Proving Survival ;
by J.
B. Rhine --------- 35
Annual General Meeting - -- -- --50
Hallucinatory Impression of a Relative's Death. (See also
Journal XXVII, 326) - ----- 66
Prophecy versus Perspicacity ;
by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
Solovovo - -- -- -- --67
Note on An Attempt to Locate in Space the Alleged Direct
Voice observed in Sittings with Mrs. Leonard ;
by Th.
Besterman and G. Heard ------ 84
A Dream of an Explosion ------- 85
Notes on Sittings ;
by Illit Grondahl - - - - - 102
r
The Investigations of Robert Chambers ;
by Th. Besterman 105
•
A Sitting with D. D. Home in 1860 ----- 106
A Telepathic Impression - - - .- - - -156
A " Fire Walking " Ceremony in Fiji ;
by S. M. White - 170
Annual Report of the Council for 1933 - - - - 187
Annual General Meeting ------- 203
Dream of the Result of a Race - - - - - - 216
Dream of a Monkey - -- -- -- - 236
An Impression Coinciding with an Illness subsequently Fatal 237
A Monition ---------- 239
Premonitory Dream of a Death ------ 249
Veridical Dream of a Present ------ 250
A Collective Visual Hallucination ~
Three Cases of Death-Coincidence - 253
iv Contents
An Impression Coinciding, with IHnfessr- :
; - : .~ : .
.- .
- 256
Telepathy or Coincidence .?. ;
by Burke A. Evans - - 258
Telepathy and Sleepwalking-'; 'l>y A.- Gj. Hansard . *\ - 265
Report of a Picture Test ;
by The Rev. W. S. Irving - - 280
Reports of Two Picture Tests ;
by the Rev. W. S. Irving - 299
A Veridical Impression Coinciding with an Illness subsequently
fatal --- - 316
New Members - - - 2, 18, 34, 66, 82, 98, 122, 138, 154,
186, 202, 228, 248, 276, 296, 315
Meetings of the Council 2, 18, 34, 66, 82, 98, 122, 138, 154, 186,
202-203, 228, 229, 248, 276, 297, 315
Meetings of the Society 34, 35, 50, 53, 57, 83, 99, 123, 170, 203,
229, 236, 248, 249, 278, 298, 316
Obituaries 124, 138, 155, 276, 278 ; Lists of deaths, 28, 195
Correspondence 7, 45, 46, 75, 86, 111, 125, 130, 139, 158, 175, 197,
200, 204, 219, 221, 223, 240, 241,
242, 244, 259, 270, 286-8, 309
Reviews 7, 29, 47, 75, 76, 89, 112, 115, 116, 131, 134, 134, 135, 139,
145, 147, 148, 149, 149, 149, 150, 159, 179, 181, 182,
207, 209, 210, 211, 224, 270, 290, 310, 311, 320, 321
Notes on Periodicals - - 9, 31, 77, 91, 117, 135, 150, 160, 182,
212, 226, 244, 261, 293, 312
Notices 1, 2, 16. 17, 18, 33, 48, 49, 64, 65, 80, 81, 83, 96, 97, 98,
121, 122, 137, 153, 169, 170, 185, 186, 201, 215,
227, 228, 229, 246, 247, 262, 263, 264, -274,
275, 276, 277, 294, 295, 296, 298, 314, 315
Errata 152
No. 491.—Vol. XXVIEI. January 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 January 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" SOME COMMUNICATIONS OF A PERSONAL
KIND RECEIVED THROUGH MISS GERALDINE
CUMMINS "
WILL BE READ BY
MISS E. B. GIBBES
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
A
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
Edwards, Francis H., 3b Fulwood Park, Liverpool.
Green, Lady, Gotwick Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Kiralfy, Gerald A., M.B.E., 9 Addison Crescent, London, W. 14.
Librarian, University of the Witwatersrand, Milner Park, Johannes-
burg, S. Africa.
Sydenham, Frederick, F.E.C.S., M.D., 48 Calthorpe Road, Edg-
baston, Birmingham.
Ward, Hon. Mrs Cyril, Horton Court, Chipping-Sodbury, Glos.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 300th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 November 1932, at 4 p.m.,
The Earl of Balfour in the Chair. There were also present :
Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C, S. Schiller, Mr S. G.
Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Miss Nea Walker ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Six new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October were presented and taken as
read.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Gramophone Records of a Sitting with Mrs Osborne
Leonard.
Students of trance mediumship have long felt that it is necessary
to make a comparative study of the Controls of different mediums
if the real nature of these Controls is to be understood. In the case
of the mediumship of Mrs Leonard there is a still more important
task, the comparison of the different Personal Controls of this
medium, a task which might throw much light on the whole ques-
tion of survival, communication, and the modus operandi of trance
mediumship. The Society has devoted much attention to this
subject, but the work has been greatly hampered by the difficulty
of studying these Controls at leisure, detached from the conditions
of the actual sittings. It is clear that this can be achieved only by
obtaining permanent and mechanical records of these sittings.
This objective has now been attained by the Society.
With the kind co-operation of the medium and of the Rev. W. S.
January 1933 Gramophone Records of a Sitting 3
Irving, who allowed one of his sittings to be used for this purpose,
an entire sitting with Mrs Leonard has been very successfully
recorded on twenty-three gramophone discs. Owing to the expen-
sive nature of the experiment (which has cost nearly £100), only
ten of these discs have been converted by The Gramophone Com-
pany, Ltd., into permanent twelve-inch single-sided records. These,
however, are quite sufficient for the purpose of the experiment.
Finances permitting, it is hoped in time to make a series of records
of the most important Personal Controls of Mrs Leonard and
Controls of other trance mediums. The present experiment has
fully demonstrated that the technical difficulties can be successfully
overcome.
These ten private records, which are obtainable only from the
Society, preserve the entire Personal Control and the most interest-
ing portions of the Feda Control, including the beginning and the
end, as well as examples of the so-called direct voice. As many
students of psychical research will no doubt wish to possess these
records, which give a graphic rendering of a sitting with Mrs
Leonard, it has been decided to place them on sale to Members and
Associates of the Society at 5s. each or £2 10s. for the complete set
of ten records. This price is only a little above the actual cost of
the records to the Society.
Application for records should be made to the Secretary, The
Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1, not later than the end of February 1933.
A VERIDICAL DREAM.
We have received through Miss E. B. Gibbes, a member of the
Society, the following report of an apparently veridical dream, the
dreamer being Miss Geraldine Cummins, whose automatic writings
(Paul in Athens, The Scripts of Cleophas, etc.) are well known. The
names and addresses of all persons concerned are known to the
Society, but, except in the case of Miss Gibbes and Miss Cummins,
pseudonyms are given here.
The first mention of the dream occurred in a postscript to a letter
written by Miss Cummins, in County Cork, Ireland, to Miss Gibbes
in England on the morning of 1 August 1932 as follows :
" Any news of Alice ? I had a very sad and vivid dream of her
last Tuesday night [2 August]. I won't seal this for fear it will
delay it."'
Details of the dream were noted by Miss Cummins on 3 August
1932 as follows :
" Night of Tuesday August 2nd.
" I dreamt in the small hours of the morning that I saw Alice F.
—
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933-
in a dim room. She was dressed in the clothes in which I had last
seen her in London in the spring—a white silk blouse and dark
skirt. Her face was ghastly pale and she looked terribly ill. She
greeted me brightly and at first I was very glad to see her, but felt
so sorry she looked so ill. Then she came quite close to me until it
seemed as if her forehead was about to touch mine. I shrank away
in frantic terror, feeling that at all costs I mustn't let her touch me.
She smiled cheerily then and made a joke which I can't remember.
But I distinctly recalled her saying, '
I'm quite all right.' After
that she disappeared and then I saw Edith [an intimate friend of
Alice's] in another room in the same house. I went down a stair to
it. I told Edith that Alice had said she was '
quite all right '
so I
supposed it meant she was going to get well again, that she seemed
quite sure of it anyway. In fact at that moment I felt quite happy
about her. But Edith replied, '
No, it's hopeless,' became very
upset, completely breaking down and weeping bitterly. I was
awfully distressed then, feeling there was nothing I could say.
And soon after I woke up. I was so saddened at Edith's distress
I lit the lamp and read for a while. I didn't note the time, but there
was a glimmer of light coming through the curtain. So it was some
time in the early morning.
" Later I hoped that the dream might mean that Alice had taken
a-turn for the better and that she was going to get well after
all."
The above statement was enclosed with a letter from Miss
Cummins to Miss Gibbes written on the evening of 4 August 1932
as follows :
" You will note in the letter I sent you that I said I had a sad
and vivid dream about Alice. I made a note of it as you will seer <_
which I didn't enclose with the proofs as I was in a hurry to get to
the post office in case there was a letter from you by the second
post with further corrections. I got quite a turn when I opened
your letter in the post office and read that poor Alice had died early
on Tuesday morning. I am most terribly sorry, for though I only
knew her slightly I had a real affection for her, she was such a
delightful person.
" Do you think my dream was after her passing or was it when
she was unconscious ? The strange thing about the dream I had
was that I was quite certain she was alive. I made a note of it
because I thought that if you wrote and told me that she had taken
a turn for the better and was going to get well, there would be
some truth in the remark she made in the dream that she was
'
quite all right.' and in the impression she conveyed that she was
January 1933 .4 Veridical Dream 5
going to be quite well again. What upset me most in the dream was
Edith's despair.
*'
Also I don't understand why I was so terrified lest Alice should
touch me. There was some mark on her forehead, almost like a
slight cut or breaking of the skin. Otherwise she was as I saw her
last except that she was so ghastly pale and looked so ill, yet at the
same time she was so cheery, and in this respect such a contrast to
Edith. Alice gave me such a feeling of happiness after my terror
had passed."
A few days after receiving this letter Miss Gibbes wrote to a friend
of hers, Miss C, asking whether she could obtain from Edith answers
to a number of questions. These questions and the replies received
are given below
:
1. What was the actual time at which death occurred ?
Answer.—To the best of our knowledge A. F. passed on between
-9 and 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday morning.
2. At what hour did she become quite unconscious I
A nswer. —Was never quite unconscious. Came out of the morphia
occasionally. Presumably sank from 5 a.m.
3. Is there any room in the home [i.e. the nursing home in which
A. F. died] or elsewhere connected with Edith with a step leading
down to it ?
Answer.—The matron's room, where Edith used to interview Dr
or matron, has a step down to it.
i. Has Edith said to you and to others—if so. when—" No, it's
hopeless
:
'
?
Answer.—A much used phrase since January.
5. Can you explain the mark on the forehead ( 1 mean did
Alice have an accident at any time which left a scar for a period ?
Answer.—She had a scar on the forehead which she always
covered.
On 28 September 1932 the Hon. Editor. Mrs Salter, had an inter-
view with Miss Gibbes in which a verbal account of this dream was
given her. Mrs Salter suggested that it would be desirable to
obtain further information about the scar, and in particular to
ascertain whether knowledge of its existence seemed to be confined
to a few persons. On 29 September and again on 22 October 1932
Miss Gibbes wrote to Mrs Salter to the following effect : Knowledge
of the existence of the scar seems to have been confined to a few
intimate friends and (presumably) A lice's relatives. The scar, which
was very slight, was received in the following circumstances : as a
small child of three or four Alice was driving with her father, who
was Commissioner of Police in Ireland. A stone was thrown at
him and hit the child instead. Miss Gibbes has known Miss C. for
6 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJt January 1933
a number of years, but has known Edith and Alice about three
years only. Miss Cummins has known all three for three years only.
In two letters to Miss Gibbes subsequent to the letter of 4 August
Miss Cummins referred to her impression of the scar as follows :
"1. It is certainly remarkable about the scar on the forehead,
for I had no knowledge of it and was impressed by the sight of it
in the dream of Alice's forehead.
" 2. One point more re dream. When I saw the scar on Alice's
forehead during the dream, I thought it must be caused by the ill-
ness from which she was suffering, for she certainly had nothing,
no mark, when I knew her. That was my dream thought and
waking thought, and so I was surprised to read in your first re
dream that you had heard nothing about a mark or scar. For it
had made such a definite impression on my visual sense in the
dream."
In view of the fact that at the time of her dream Miss Cummins
had some knowledge concerning the unsatisfactory condition of
Alice's health, a further statement on this point is desirable.
About a week before Christmas 1931 Miss Cummins underwent a
severe operation, and after a period of convalescence in England
she left for Ireland on 24 May. In a letter to Mrs Salter dated
3 October 1932 Miss Gibbes writes :
" The only time I mentioned
Alice [to Miss Cummins] between that date [24 May] and her death
was in a letter which would have been written about a month after
Miss Cummins's departure. I only referred to her casually and
gave no details, merely saying, as far as I can recollect, that Miss C.
had been here and that Alice seemed pretty bad. But I avoided
telling her that the case was hopeless."
The point is dealt with again in a letter from Miss Gibbes to Mrs
Salter on 22 October 1932 :
" I quite agree that it would be a good point to state that Miss
Cummins was recovering from a severe operation and that I had
deliberately refrained from telling her how serious Alice's condition
had become. . . . Alice was also operated on . . . soon after Christ-
mas. She recovered wonderfully and was out and about soon after-
wards. Miss Cummins had seen Alice once only last autumn, before
she got so ill. and only met her once afterwards at Miss C.'s flat early
in April last. Alice had been acting in some Sunday play and Miss
Cummins tells me that she so envied her being able to work so soon,
when she [Miss Cummins] was feeling unfit to do anything. The
last Miss Cummins heard of Alice before she went to Ireland at the
end of May. was that she (A.) had developed a bad cough. As I
say, I purposely gave Miss Cummins no details of the sudden serious
January 1933 7
developments . . . except in the one letter to which reference is
already made. I did not want to upset her as she was ordered to
rest as much as possible."
An announcement of Alice's death on 2 August 1932 appeared in
a London paper of 3 August.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Notes on Sittings.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Having read Miss Dallas's letter in the November number
of your Journal, I thought that the following facts might be found
interesting.
At a recent sitting with Mrs Leonard, Feda, having given me an
unmistakable description of a friend, proceeded to spell out her
second Christian name : not that by which she is called ; and
remarked :
" He [the communicator] says it isn't the name you
would expect him to know her by."
At a sitting last April with another medium, the same communi-
cator alluded to his sister-in-law by her second and more uncommon
name.
Is it not possible that these cases are due to an association in the
mind of the medium with the name given, which would cause it to
be more easily brought to the surface ?
Yours, etc.,
Enid de Kakucs.
REVIEW.
Bernhard Bavink. The Anatomy of Modern Science, 8vo, pp. xiii.
683, 87 ill. London : Bell & Sons, Ltd., 1932. Price 21s. net.
After outlines, anatomies. Yet anatomy means for most of us
study of internal structure. Does science grow that way ? Is it
not more like a tree which is most alive on the bark, less at the core,
advancing by its outer growing edge ? Certainly the chief signifi-
cance of this book lies in its power of dealing with the latest revolu-
tionary advances-—one might almost say explosions—of science. In
form it almost deserves that favourite Teutonic word, colossal. A
Bibliography of some six hundred works, a " Notary " of four
hundred and twenty cross references, comments and additional
suggestions back up a survey which sweeps through Force and
Matter (Part I), Cosmos and Earth (Part II), Matter and Life (Part
III), and Nature and Man (Part IV). Who is equal to resurveying
and checking up such a compass ? To readers of this Journal the
final part, " Nature and Man," will seem the most important, and
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933
at least they will not be provincial in so thinking, because the
author shares their opinion, building up the whole vast structure of
his knowledge toward that climax, or perhaps it would be a juster
simile to say that this is the keystone with which he would lock
the gigantic arch which he hopes to throw across the gap which for
most explorers yawns between reality and the ideal. For he is an
idealist and thinks that the time has come when, with the material
that is to hand, the bridge may be thrown. Up till now he thinks
it has only been a rainbow bridge. Now the essential hard facts are
quarried and are ready to take our weight if we fit them together.
In the first three parts we are shown how the old materialism is
no longer adequate to explain the physical universe that science
now apprehends. There is not anything very original in this
presentation but, to return to the bridge simile, the abutment from
which an arch might be thrown is shown to be far larger and to
offer far better purchase for the leap than twenty years ago would
have seemed possible, and we are also shown that the abutment
grows year by year. In consequence Part IV is the critical part of
the book. Everything is pointing to a bridge being a possibility if
only the stones could be found to build it . With the earliest chapters
of this part we need not concern ourselves, save to point out that
when discussing eoliths the conclusions could have been more
succinct and definite if the work of Reid Moir, which has now been
accepted not only here but by prehistorians in France, had been
quoted. It is strange that our encyclopaedist is ignorant of it.
The chapter which matters most of all is the one dealing with
psychical research. There, he believes, is to be found the material
which shows how science is going to advance to a complete new
conception of the universe. He divides his evidence into mental
and physical phenomena. The case is well put and enough is found
to substantiate the author's opinion, but here, too, the author
might have consulted more authorities than he has and found
better evidence. He believes telepathy and clairvoyance .to be
proved, but takes as his example of the latter The Gate of Remem-
brance and its companion volume. The case was, of course, of no
little interest, but many members of the S.P.R., especially those
who combine with their taste for psychology one for archaeology,
will wish that he had chosen some other examples, say from the
Proceedings. When he comes to the physical phenomena his lack of
records of the latest work done by Osty with Rudi Schneider is
even more serious, for he feels bound to dismiss this whole side as
unsubstantiated in any way—a conclusion no one can blame a
scientist arriving at until Osty's experiments were published.
Still Dr Bavink owns that if only telepathy is accepted, and he
feels that no one who investigates the material now available can
January 1933 Review 9
reject it, the bridge that will lead into a new world of apprehension
is thrown, though it be to-day but one brick thick. Dr Bavink"s
contention is that with telepathy we have a link that goes far to
establish the " parapsychism " of the universe. His argument for
rejecting the common opinion that telepathy is akin to radio and
showing that it points much more validly to some sort of access to
an underlying field of common consciousness is well put and impor-
tant and should be studied.
In contrast to this part of the book the conclusion is disappoint-
ing. He attempts to sum up how the wise man is to regard the
world to-day and gets mixed up in discussions about race—a pecu-
liarly German danger—and eugenics. His conclusion, too. that
revelation comes best through the three great Bs of music may be
true but is not very scientific or original, while his comments on
the problem of pain and evil are not much above the average
theological level. It seems a pity, after the immense thoroughness
of the first parts and the originality of the part on psychical research,
that the ending should be so tame as to be almost trite. The differ-
ence to life that the new theories about the world and consciousness
will make Dr Bavink does not seem to realise. He is still thinking
in terms of pure science, and when that is over he goes back to the
old world of politics, of Germany beaten unfairly in the War, of the
less well-endowed classes outbreeding professors. He does not seem
to realise that whereas the theories and experiments of a Faraday
which entertained his cultured contemporaries now control and
shape the lives of us all, so even more the researches to-day done
into the faculties of the human mind, though this year a drawing-
room amusement may have even more portentous effect on the
world to-morrow. It is a conclusion hard to realise, but when
thought over harder to reject. And as the discovery of electricity
made many of the power and traction and lighting problems of the
pre-electric age irrelevant, so the discovery of other faculties and
apprehensions of the human mind, other than we have been able
to employ up to the present in this civilisation, may make many of
the problems which seem so pressing and grave to-day insignificant
to the next generation.
Gerald Heard.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1932.
Dr E. Osty, Spontaneous Telepathy and Experimental Thought-
transference. [To be continued.]—Tests of Dowsing from Plans.
[This extract from the transactions of the recent Congres de Sourciers
at Avignon records certain tests carried out to investigate the alleged
possibility of dowsing from plans of the places concerned. The
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933
results were quite negative.]—E. Pascal, A propos of the Prophecy
of the Monk of Padua. —Ch. Andry-Bourgeous, The Great Problems
of Modern Physics.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, November 1932.
Dr P. A. Dietz, The Controversy about Parapsychology. [This
is Dr Dietz's inaugural address on being appointed tutor in para-
psychology at the University of Leyden. He takes up a position
about midway between the " positivists " and the " negativists."
On p. 12 he has been misled into stating that lectures on psychical
research have been delivered in the Universities of Oxford, Cam-
bridge and London.]—W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Magic in Tibet. [Con-
cluded.]
Zeitschriftfur Parapsychologie, 1932.
January. Dr Eduard Hitter von Liszt, Kathe Giindl, a medical
Medium. [It is claimed of this medium that she makes diagnoses
without examination of the patient and even, without seeing him,
from his portrait. Among the cases quoted are diagnoses of a man
of over sixty from a portrait of him at the age of three, and several
portrait-diagnoses of deceased persons. Practically no details are
given.]—Dr A. Wendler, On the Nurnberg Clairvoyant Franz
Reissig. [A few non-evidential anecdotes.]—Zoe Grafin Wassilko-
Serecki, The Alleged Phenomena of Herr Rudolf Merbeller of
Prachatitz, Czechoslovakia. [The writer describes how inhabitants
of a small town successfully conspired to persuade an elderly man
that he was in contact with many spirits and in receipt of gifts from
them.]—Dr Carl Vogl. From the Chronica Derer of Zimmern.—Dr
Willy Seidl, The Reflection on the Cupboard.—A. von Schrenck-
Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in
Germany. [This work was written in 1926 ; the first instalment
surveys the general literature of the subject and the most important
investigations.]—In this number the name of Herr Rudolf Lambert
no longer appears as Assistant Editor.
February. Dr Wolfgang von Weisl, The Medium at Branik.
[This is the amateur physical medium Wolf. The writer witnessed
various phenomena, of which table movements in good light were
the most interesting.]—Dr E. Mattiesen, Apparition of a Deceased
Person. [An interesting case, experienced by Frau Mattiesen, but
unfortunately not reported by her until after the event.]—Dr Gerda
Walther. A Well-attested Case of Bilocation. [A mutual apparition
of a husband and wife while they were at a distance from each other ;
but the attestation mentioned in the title is altogether lacking.]—
Dr H. Zenker. On a Case of Post-mortem Haunting in Leipzig. [A
singularly unconvincing case, reported at best at second-hand.]—
January 1933 Notes on Periodicals ! I
Johannes Illig. Contribution to the Study of Post-mortem Haunt-
ings. [To he continued.]—A. von Schrenck-Notzing. The Develop-
ment of Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany. [The second
instalment deals chiefly with paraphysieal phenomena.]—Dr Carl
Bruck, Are Parapsychical Relations possible between Doctor and
Patient ? [The writer answers in the affirmative, his opinion being
based largely on personal experiences.]—With this number Prof.
Gilbert Murray's name ceases to appear in the list of collaborators.
March. Hedda Wagner, Poltergeist Phenomena in a Mountain
Hut. [A typical case, related at second-hand.]—Johannes Illig,
Contribution to the Study of Post-mortem Hauntings. [Concluded.
A theoretical discussion "of a number of cases, no attempt being-
made to put them on an evidential basis.]—A. von Schrenck-
Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in
Germany. [The third instalment discusses mental phenomena.]—
Dr E. Kindborg, Exposure of Ottokar Fischer. [The writer protests,
with some recent remarks of Herr Fischer's as his text, and with
much justice, against the notion that a conjurer is, as such, com-
petent to pass judgment on psychical research.]—With this number
another name vanishes from the list of collaborators, that of Prof.
Gardner Murphy.
April. Prof/C. Blacher, Two Unobjectionable Experiments: a
Telekinesis and a Light-phenomenon. [Under this provocative title
are described the movement of a glove lying on a luminous board,
the hands of the two anonymous mediums being held over it, and
the sudden luminosity of a bell. The latter phenomenon is des-
cribed with so little detail that criticism is impossible (the writer
explains that he is too busy to give full particulars) ;
the former
could easily have been produced with the help, for instance, of a
thread.]—Dr Karel Kuchynka, A remarkable spontaneous Tele-
pathic Vision at a great Distance. [The case is fifteen years old,
without contemporary record.]—Dr P. Siinner. Supplementary
Report of the Charlottenburg Poltergeist, together with some Con-
siderations of the Problem of the Psychological Explanation of
Poltergeists. [To be continued.]—A. von Schrenck-Notzing, The
Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany. [The
fourth instalment concludes the discussion of the mental phenomena
and proceeds to the poltergeist.]—Profs. Franz Haslinger and Daniel
Walter, Positivism. [This manifesto has already appeared in Z. f.
metaps. Forschung, February 1932, q.v.]—Hans Hanig, On the Pro-
jection of the Human Ego.—Dr Gerda Walther, To General Josef
Peter on his 80th Birthday.
May. Dr Gerda Walther, New Experiments of Harry Price with
Rudi Schneider. [Discussion is postponed until a first-hand account
is available.]—Dr A. Tanagra, The Nature of Telekinetic Energy.
1 2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933
[Brief report of sittings with Mile Cleio, aged 25. in whose presence
the needle of a compass makes as yet inexplicable movements. ]-
Dr P. Siinner. Supplementary Report, etc. [Concluded. The
writer restricts himself almost exclusively to German cases. He
concludes that poltergeists and hauntings, which he unfortunately
does not differentiate, are due to the operation of spirits.]—Dr [A.]
Ludwig. On the Problem of Ecclesiastical Protection against Molesta-
tion by Poltergeists. —A. von Schrenck-Notzing. The Development
of Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany. [The fifth instal-
ment surveys recent investigations.]—C. H. F. Driessen. Para-
psychical and Paraphysical Phenomena in the Life of Girolamo
Cardan.
June. Dr Gerda Walther. Interesting Experiment with a Hun-
garian Medium. [The medium, Frau Lujza Ignath (cp. Proc. S.P.R.,
xxxviii. 466 if.), produced writing on wax tablets enclosed in a box.
The report is taken from a newspaper and is at least third-hand.]
—Prof. [A.] Ludwig. An Investigation of the Niirnberg Clairvoyante
H. P. [ This medium exhibits a combination of graphology and
psychometry.]—L. Deutmann. The true Nature of the so-called
Animal Magnetism. [The writer believes in ""
fluidic threads."]—
A. von Schrenck-Notzing. The Development of Occultism into Para-
psychology in Germany. [The sixth instalment completes the
survey of recent investigations and begins a discussion of anta-
gonistic writings.]—Dr W. Mrsic, On the Problem of the Projection
of the Ego. [Two visions at a distance ; no corroboration.]—Bruno
Grabinski. Apparition of a Deceased Person in Daylight. [Repro-
duced, at fourth-hand, from a newspaper.]
July. Dr Alexander Imich. Report on Two Sittings with a New
Medium, M. S. [These sittings for physical phenomena, as the
editor points out. were held under very bad conditions : e.g. the
light was controlled by the medium.]—V. Mikuska, An Experience
of a Haunt and its Explanation in a Telepathic-clairvoyant Dream.
[The experience took place in 1919 and it does not appear that any
contemporary record was made.]—Hedda Wagner. A Murder and a
Clairvoyante. [A continuation of the same writer's article in the
March number.]—H. Vorwahl, Poltergeist Phenomena in the
African Bush. —Dr Ludwig, Magical Forces of the Living. —Prof.
D. Richard Hoffmann. Are there Religious Influences on Poltergeist
Phenomena ? —A. von Schrenck-Notzing. The Development of
Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany. [The seventh instal-
ment continues the discussion of antagonistic writings.]—Rudolf
Tischner. Remarks on the Fred Marion Trial. [Taking the perform-
ances of the stage clairvoyant Fred Marion as his text, Dr Tischner
acutely demonstrates the uselessness of such stage " turns " for
scientific purposes.]—A Haunt in Antiquity. [A translation of the
January 1933 Notes on Periodicals 13
well-known case in Pliny's letters.]—Hedda Wagner, Two Veridical
Dreams. [Both well over half a century old and uncorroborated.]
August. Dr A. Tanagra, The Decisive Demonstration of Tele-
kinesis. [A further brief report of sittings with the medium Cleio.
The most striking phenomenon in this series is the falling of pictures
from the wall in the medium's presence.]—Dr Otto Ingruber, Three
Classical Paraphysical Cases in Sittings with Frau Marie Silbert
(Graz). [The sounding of a lute placed under the table ; the pro-
duction, under most suspicious circumstances, of a figure 7
(" Conan Doyle's lucky number "), the letters C and D, and a
triangle, on the back of a photograph of Sir A. C. Doyle's grave ;
and the supposed melting of a lead whistle.]—Hedda Wagner. A
Speaking Poltergeist. [A picturesque account of poltergeist pheno-
mena apparently witnessed by a considerable number of people, in
the house of a family comprising twelve children.] —A. von Schrenck-
Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in
Germany. [The eighth instalment concludes the discussion of
antagonistic writings and refers to various special investigations.]
—Dr Felix Paradies. On the Parapsychology of Dreams. [An
interesting account of a dream and its causation, of no supernormal
interest.]—Hedda Wagner. A Poltergeist in a New Building.
[Dates from 1867.] —Dr Morell. Parapsychological Incidents in the
life of Hanns von Gumppenberg. [Extracted from his autobio-
graphy.]—Ernst Schillemeit, The Tempo of Dream Representations.
—Prof. Theodor Hosinger, Premonition of Death. [Very brief
account of three uncorroborated cases.]
September. Dr Carl Bruck. Two Recent Sittings with the Medium
Wolf in Prag-Branik on 2 and 3 June 1932. [The report deals
largely with apports : it is impressive, but. in view of the unsatis-
factory conditions in which the sittings were held, not altogether
convincing.]—Countess Zoe Wassilko-Serecki, A few Experiments
with Frau Sabine De Costa. [The experiments were of the grapho-
logico-psychometrical kind.]—Hans Hanig, Three Cases of Clair-
voyance from the Practice of Frau Maria Hessel. [The first case is
circumstantial but second-hand : the second is well corroborated
but very weak : the third is well corroborated, but its evidential
value is doubtful : the medium indicated the whereabouts of the
body of a boy drowned in a river, but no information is given as to^
the degree of probability that the body would have been found there
in any case, nor are we told whether the point has been discussed,
for instance, in the newspapers.]—Prof. Ludwig, Effect produced at
a Distance by a Dying Person. [A case told at second-hand, uncor-
roborated, without date (but apparently forty to fifty years old).]—
A. von Schrenck-Notzing. The Development of Occultism into Para-
psychology in Germany. [The ninth instalment continues the
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1933
discussion of special investigations.]—Dr Ernst Mannheimer, The
Modern Outlook in its Relation to Parapsychology. [The writer
considers that the modern Weltbild does not exclude the super-
normal.]—Dr Felix Paradies, Telepathy. [The writer seriously
suggests that one of the best-known types of stage " telepathy " is
due to genuine telepathy.]
October. Prof. C. Blacher. Apport Studies. [To be continued. In
this first instalment the writer is mainly concerned to defend his
position against " Betrugsschniiffeleien " (approximately " fraud-
nosey-parkering "). His attitude is more reasonable and courteous
than that of most " positivists," but he shares with them the quite
unsubstantial conviction that certain students of the subject are
frivolous and thoughtless in their criticisms.]—Dr E. Mattiesen,
Again the Exteriorisation of the Ego as an Argument for Spiritual-
ism. [A continuation of an article in the September and October
1931 issues of the same periodical, mainly in reply to Dr Osty's
paper in the Rev. Metaps. for May-June 1930.]—A. von Schrenck-
Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in
Germany. [Tenth instalment : summary.]—Hedda Wagner, Two
Fulfilled Prophecies. [Old and uncorroborated.]
November. Prof. C. Blacher, Apport Studies. [To be continued.]
—Dr Gerda Walther, Recent Investigation in the Field of Telepathy.
[This first instalment deals with the Sinclair experiments.]—Prof.
D. Gustav Entz, The Problem of Biblical Miracles in the light of
Mediumistic Investigation. —A. von Schrenek-Notzing, The Develop-
ment of Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany. [This work is
now concluded (as left by its author) with a discussion of the
attitude of protestants and of the most important spiritualistic
works.]—Prof. Ludwig, Marsilio Ficino on the hidden Powers of the
Mind.
December. Prof. C. Blacher, Apport Studies. [Concluded. The
writer has made a serious attempt to establish the reality of this
phenomenon on the basis of sittings held by him with two mediums
sitting together. It must be said, nevertheless, that the conditions
under which these sittings were held, so far as they are described,
do not inspire much confidence in the supernormal nature of the
apports obtained.]—Dr Gerda Walther, Recent Investigations in
the Field of Telepathy. [In this concluding instalment the writer
considers telejtathy chiefly in certain of its theoretical aspects. In
a footnote on p. 546 she criticises Mr Soaks recent experiments, but
in so doing makes a serious mistake in describing them.]—Karl
Halenke, The Clairvoyante Helma Poesl-Eichheim of Niirnberg.
[Uncorroborated notes.] —Alois Kaindl, Du Prel's Mistake. [On Du
Prel's suggestion that the supernormal of this world is the normal
of the other.]
January 1933 Notes a n\ PetioHwklc 15
La Ricerca Psichica, 1932. [Under this title is, continued the former
Luce e Omb'raA •
• ; : \ »
.'"
January. A. Brueis/ Psychie'aT Research. [Introductory edi-
torial.]—E. Bozzano, Polyglot Mediumship. [This work is con-
tinued, month by month, throughout the year.]—E. Servadio. The
Future and Premonitions.
February. E. Bozzano, The Medium Valiantine accused of Fraud
in connection with Fingerprints. [This non-committal review is
continued in the March issue.]
March. The Correspondence of Angelo Marzorati. [Further
letters from the late editor of Luce e Ombra are printed in subsequent
numbers.]—R. Fedi, The Immortality of the Soul and the Perisprit.
April. G. Provenzal, Sir William Crookes. [On the occasion of
the centenary of his birth.]—E. Servadio, Introduction to the
Researches in the Phenomena' of Spiritualism. —G. De Boni, The
'"Duncan Case" and the Report of Harry Price. [In support of
Mrs Duncan.]
May. R. Fedi, Survival in relation to Biological Science.
June. E. Servadio, Mediumship and Fraud. [In this lecture,
which is concluded in the July issue, the writer surveys the history
of a number of mediums generally regarded as fraudulent. In con-
clusion he warmly endorses a saying of the late Angelo Marzorati
that " fraud is an integral part of mediumship " : which would be
lamentable if it were true, which it certainly is not.]—The First
International Congress of Rhabdomancy and Geophysics, Verona,
1932.
July. E. Servadio, Testimony in Mediumistic Sittings. [Surveys
the recent S.P.R. experiments and regards its conclusions as too
pessimistic]
August. E. Servadio, Eight Sittings with the Medium Erto.
[Continues throughout the rest of the year.]
—
Id., G. Valiantine,
R. Schneider and the Proceedings of the S.P.R. [The writer does
not approve of the papers referred to in the title of this review.]
September. The " Duncan Case " and the Declaration of Miss
Mary McGinlay. [A full translation of that document.]
October. A. Bruers, A propos of the " Duncan Case."" [The writer,
following the usual practice of writers in this periodical, tries to
support the Duncan mediumship by appealing to the famous names
and cases of the past.]
November. A. Bruers, Psychical Research and Philosophy.
—
G. De Boni, More about the " Duncan Case." [Tries to show that
the statement of Miss McGinlay is worthless.]
December. E. Bozzano, Polyglot Mediumship. [Still in progress,
though an English translation in book form has already appeared.]
—E. Servadio, Eight
^^^^^ ^e Medium Erto. [Concluded.]
16 Journal of .Society for ^Psychical .Research January 1933
;
— r
'. y. . :
^
—•— -
_\ r :
^—•••
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 1932.
October. Dr A. Taraagra. The Explanation af Premonitions. [It
is most regrettable that 'foreign t-'ontribntion^ are now always so
badly translated in this periodical. Dr Tanagra's theory suffers in
the process.]—David Gow, The Resources of Trance Mediumship.
[On the mediumship of J. J. Morse.]—Posthumous Work by Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing. [A bad translation of Schrenck-Notzing's
The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology in Germany.]—
Dwight J. Bradley. Psychic Research.
November. The Margery Mediumship. [In reply to Bulletin
XVIII of the Boston S.P.R. the Research Committee state, in-
adequately and discourteously, that they are still considering the
matter.]—Baron von Schrenck-Notzing. The Development of
Occultism into Parapsychology. [The title is inaccurate and the
translation is still bad.]
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 492.—Vol. XXVIII February 1933.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 22 February 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"THE POSITIVE IMPLICATIONS
OF TELEPATHY"
BY
MR W. WHATELY SMITH
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1933
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Society for
Psychical Research (notice of which has already been circulated)
will be held in the House of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February 1933, at 3.30 o'clock in
the afternoon precisely.
NEW MEMBERS.
(Elected 4 January 1933.)
Ashby, Mrs Thomas, Albemarle Club, 37 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
De Zoete, Miss Beryl, 43 Russell Square, London, W.C. 1.
Rees-Roberts, Dr J. V., F.R.S., 90 Fitzjohn's Avenue, London,
N.W. 3.
Stevens, J. A., Wroxham, Hayes Lane, Bromley, Kent.
Watkins, Miss K. E., B.Sc, 53 All Souls Avenue, London, N.W. 10.
{Elected 18 January 1933.)
Payne, Dr Sylvia M., 143 Harley Street, W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 301st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 4 January 1933, at 5.15 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also present
:
Miss Ina Jephson, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttleton, G.B.E., Mr W. H.
Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, and Miss Nea Walker ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The following votes of thanks were passed unanimously :
To Mrs Fitzgerald for the gift of original records of sittings by
Robert Chambers with D. D. Home and other mediums, and to
Mr Trethewy for his good services in acting as intermediary.
To Mr Fred Barlow for the gift of a dictaphone.
To Mr W. Harrison Barwell, for a promised bequest to the
Society of all the original records of his private circle, including
those of the Hacking case and others.
To Mrs Leonard, the Rev. W. S. Irving, and the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas for their valued co-operation in obtaining gramophone
records of sittings.
February 1933 Annual Report of the Council for 1932 19
The 302nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 18 January 1933, at 3.15 p.m.,
Mr G. W. Lambert in the Chair. There were also present : The
Earl of Balfour, Dr C. D. Broad, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina
Jephson, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttleton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and confirmed.
One new Member was elected. Her name and address are given
above.
The Report of the Council for 1932 was considered and adopted
as amended.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1932.
The Society's Jubilee. The year 1932 will be memorable in the
annals of psychical research as that in which our Society celebrated
its Jubilee. The Council were so fortunate as to persuade Sir
Oliver Lodge to undertake the Presidency during the Jubilee year.
Although in this year the office was particularly onerous, Sir Oliver
was unsparing of his own comfort in carrying out the duties involved.
The Council also decided that it would be proper to the occasion to
appoint as President of Honour for the year Mrs Sidgwick, the only
one of our Members who has been closely associated with the
Society's work throughout the whole of its existence. Mrs Sidgwick
had expressed her desire to relinquish the office of Hon. Secretary
at the end of the previous year ; nevertheless she continued during
1932 constantly to give the Society the benefit of her advice and help.
The Society completed its 50th year in February, but it was
thought best to hold the Jubilee celebrations towards the end of
June. These took the form of a Council Dinner, followed by a
Reception by the President, to which all Members and Associates
were invited. Three public Meetings were also held, at which papers
by the President, the President of Honour, and Dr William Brown,
were read ; these papers have since appeared in Parts 126 and 127
of Proceedings.
The Society also invited to the Dinner and Reception several
foreign psychical researchers of distinction, but owing to the general
economic depression none of them was able to be present in person ;
but they sent congratulations and good wishes, which were much
appreciated.
The financial situation. The year has, of course, been one of
great financial anxiety. Towards the end of 1931 the Council
appointed a special Committee to advise on possible economies, and
the report of that Committee, which was accepted by the Council,
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1933
was summarized in the Journal for February 1932. As the result of
these economies, of several generous donations, and of two small
legacies which were received during the year, the Society was
enabled to carry out its activities without serious hindrance, and its
financial position at the end of the year was sounder than at the
beginning. The Council felt that in view of the financial position of
the Society it would not be proper that any part of the cost of the
social festivities connected with the Jubilee should fall on the
Society's funds, and they are glad to report that the generosity of
members and friends relieved the Society's funds (if any burden op
this account.
Strict economy will be necessary in the immediate future if the
Society is to continue its work, and among other economies it may
unfortunately be necessary to keep the amount of matter published
in Proceedings somewhat below the average of recent years.
The past and the future. As was only natural, the conclusion of
fifty years' work in psychical research raised in the minds of many
of our Members and Associates the question whether the time had
not come when the Society might make some collective or corporate
statement as to the conclusions to be drawn from the work done, in
particular with regard to the question of survival and communica-
tion, which has played such a large part in our studies. The Council
are of opinion that the Society should continue to adhere to the
policy it has pursued since its foundation, that is, to decline to make
any corporate pronouncement on survival and communication, or
on any of the many other questions which have arisen in the course
of its researches. In adhering to this policy the Society will be
following the usual course pursued by learned Societies with regard
to questions that are in any degree controversial.
In addition to this general principle, the Council think that the
following considerations are also relevant. The Society has from
the beginning included many varieties of opinion on the matters
investigated, but on two important points there has been substantial
agreement, first, that psychical research is a subject to which time,
trouble and money, should be devoted, and secondly, that the
methods of investigation laid down and followed by the Society are
the only sound ones.
On other questions, including that of survival, there has always
been difference of opinion, and this is likely to continue as the
problems w il li w hich we deal are seen to be more complex the more
closely they are studied. The Council would deprecate any course
which might impair the comprehensive character of the Society, or
alternatively might give an exaggerated view of differences of
opinion among our members.
The absence of a corporate pronouncement on any subject, it
February 1933 Annual Report of the Council for 1932 2]
need hardly be said, is due to impartiality and not indifference.
Individual members are always free to express their opinions, and
such expressions, when they are the result of long and careful study
of the problems of psychical research, may prove of great value.
Research. (1) Organisation. As announced in the Journal for
February 1932, Dr V. J. Woolley, then Hon. Research Officer, was
not in agreement with some of the recommendations with regard to
economy accepted by the Council, and in consequence resigned
from the Society. The Council, considering the situation in the
light of recent experience, did not consider it desirable to make any
immediate appointment of another Research Officer. The Council
wish to emphasise the point of view that every member of the
Society ought to assist in the work of research so far as his abilities
and opportunities permit. The function of the Society is to further
research among its members, to collect and coordinate the results,
and to conduct investigations under its own auspices in cases where
for reasons of expense or otherwise individual research does not
meet the case. As a matter of historical fact much of the Society's
most important research has been done by members not holding
any official position, but acting on their own initiative and authority.
To advise them in questions of research in the immediate future
the Council appointed a temporary Committee, consisting of the
Hon. Editor (Mrs Salter), Lord Charles Hope, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, and the Librarian and Editor (Mr Theodore Besterman).
(2) Spontaneous phenomena. Lord Balfour and Mr Piddington
investigated a case of haunting, which was reported in the Journal
for October 1932. Two other cases, one in South Wales and one in
Devonshire, were investigated by friends of Sir Ernest Bennett,
who reported them to the Society. Mr Salter visited a house in
Lincolnshire, said to be haunted ; and Miss Newton a supposed
poltergeist case in the South of London. Four places, one in London,
one in Shropshire, and two in the Home Counties, were similarly
visited by Mr Besterman. One of these inquiries was made in col-
laboration with Mr Gerald Heard and another with Lord Charles
Hope. Except for the first mentioned case, none has as yet proved
of evidential interest. In one case inquiries are to be continued.
(3) Other research work. In addition to the usual routine work,
which included several sittings with mediums other than those
specified below, a number of special investigations were carried out.
In July Mr and Mrs Besterman went to Norway to have a series of
sittings with a lady of mediumistic powers, which she uses non-
professionalb/, Fru Ingeborg Kober, nee Dahl. Some interesting
results were obtained, which were briefly reported in the Journal for
December 1932. It is hoped that the Society may have the oppor-
tunity of conducting a further investigation into this mediumship.
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1933
Mr Besterman continued his analysis of the records of sittings
with Mrs Leonard, with the object of making a comparative study
of the characteristics of different Communicators. A preliminary
examination of the records of about 250 sittings was made during
the year. In view of the very large mass of material involved,
amounting to well over six million words, and the limited time
available for this work, it is not likely to be concluded for several
years. During the year Mr Besterman attended a number of
sittings with Mrs Leonard with the same inquiry in view. In
November the attempt was made, for the purpose of testing certain
points of interest in Mrs Leonard's trance, to record a sitting on
gramophone records. The Gramophone Company, Ltd., was
employed for this purpose, and the attempt was completely success-
ful. An announcement on this subject was made in the Journal for
January 1933. Unfortunately experiments of this type, which are
nowadays becoming more and more necessary, are expensive. The
present experiment cost the Society just on £100, of which a third
was supplied by special donations from a few members directly
interested in the sitting recorded. Even so, it has been possible to
make only ten permanent records of the twenty-three obtained at
the sitting. This experiment is intended, finance permitting, to be
only the first step of an important investigation which should mark
an appreciable advance in the study of trance mediumship.
The experiment in long-distance telepathy between a group in
Athens and a group meeting in the Society's Rooms was concluded
and reported on in the Journal for April 1932. The results were
unfortunately negative.
Mr Besterman organised, with the co-operation of Mr J. W.
Dunne, an inquiry into precognitive dreams. The experiment was
conducted on a considerable scale with groups of members of the
Society and of Oxford undergraduates. A report has been com-
pleted and will, it is hoped, be published early in 1933.
Various attempts have been made, particularly in recent years,
to put on a more solid footing the scoring, or evaluation, of the non-
statistical material obtained at sittings with trance mediums. An
experiment in this connection has been begun, with several objects
in view. It is too early to say more at the moment, as the inquiry
is still running its course.
Mr H. F. Saltmarsh has been engaged for some time past on an
analysis of the cases of apparent precognition recorded in our
Proceedings and Journal. This important work has now been com-
pleted, and Mr Saltmarsh has prepared a report which, it is hoped,
will soon be published in Proceedings.
Two members of the Society, Mr Fred Barlow and Major Rampling
Rose, both gentlemen with expert knowledge of photography, have
February 1933 Annual Report of the Council for 1932 23
for some time past been co-operating in the investigation of super-
normal photography, and have had a large number of sittings with
the best-known " spirit-photography " mediums. They have kindly
kept the officers of the Society informed from time to time of the
progress of their researches, the result of which was embodied in a
paper read to the Society, and shortly to be printed in the Pro-
ceedings. This thorough investigation is an important contribution
to psychical research.
As it was considered important that further research should be
conducted on the lines of Dr Eugene Osty's experiments with Rudi
Schneider, a copy of his report was sent to Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.,
a member of the Society, who was able to make a valuable sug-
gestion of a fine of research which might throw light on the pheno-
mena. This suggestion was embodied by Lord Rayleigh in a paper
which will be printed at the beginning of 1933. Apparatus designed
on the fines suggested in Lord Rayleigh' s paper has been employed
in a series of private sittings with Rudi Schneider arranged by Lord
Charles Hope and a circle of friends.
Arrangements have also been made between the Society and the
Institut Metapsychique of Paris for a collaboration in the further
investigation of Rudi Schneider in the New Year. The Council felt
that Dr Osty's methods marked a welcome departure in the in-
vestigation of paraphysical phenomena and they are glad of the
opportunity of collaboration with him that has arisen.
The Library. The Carnegie United Kingdom Trust's grant having
come to an end last year, the Society now earmarks an annual sum
of £50 for the purposes of the Library. This sum naturally allows
only the most necessary works to be added to it. The number of
books and pamphlets in the Library now stands at 7,276, an increase
of about 170 during the year.
In addition to the volumes consulted in the Library, 515 volumes
were borrowed by 72 Members. In addition 99 volumes were
borrowed by the National Central Library. A few books were
obtained for members from the National Central Library.
The Society was again represented by the Society's Librarian at
the Annual Conference (at Somerville College, Oxford) of the
Association of Special Libraries and Information Bureaux, to which
the Society is affiliated.
Myers Memorial Lecture. The Council have appointed Dr Osty
to deliver the Third Frederic W. H. Myers Lecture in October 1933.
Dr Osty is a Corresponding Member of the Society and has a long
record of distinguished work in psychical research. Tfie Council
regard themselves as fortunate in securing him as Myers Lecturer.
Changes in the Council. To fill the vacancy caused by Dr Woolley's
resignation, the Council appointed Mr S. 6. Soal to be an elected
o CM 00 o o CO o 00 o CO
CO
rH
to
—
<
o r-
T-t
CO c o r-l
CM
£701
O os
1
-
o
CO
o
CM
CO
I>
t"»
CO
rH lf5
I -
r-l
CO
CO
r»
CO
O O O N IJ] H ^ H
rH
H H t-h
CO rH <M rH rH
(M i
oo 1
o o
r CO t> o o
3 CO r- r
rH X r-l ©
1—1 in
2 a
<L) t- (_,
O U J)
o s a
« S 3
r-- 4-;
CO Jf?
<*>
13
Si
Si
ft)
s
CD
3 K 00.3
J; .2 i-b
s a
s -3
.Ph
s. »
a, •§
"-5 ft,
c -o
c a
g q
£ ~
53i
Si
B is
CO
>.
03 <!
t3
c
Tl «H
CO -£
03 Z
CM uO
r-l
OS 00
—
c+i
13
Pi
a O
a, p.
. o
* §
to Q
te; ft,
b? ft, ft, «=i
-
S a,
g,
•41 <U
«u to C3 S
"to ^.
s § «
^ a a; cd fc, o m
S 5 <u ^
ft, fcq CS £ &,
I> o O O T-H O o C z 00
lO OS o rH O O •* O X 1ft CM ~ X
rH H rH rH
r- CD r-l rH CM O X o Tfl U0 CM CD l>
<M o> C 1 CO V) uO H4 c CO
OS - 1 rH CI i-H CO
rH CD X
CO O
o G>
: i
X
CM CO
CO CO
f- o o o
X OS o co
rH rH
CD CO
41 /
CM
H H J) M
CM CO CO CO
OS OS Ol OS
ft,
o S
1
O X
CD OS X
—
CO CM —Hj
CM OS : i
c+1
a 3
S CO CO
51
ft.
a,
—
a
=3
-
m .2 S
s a
as
o -s 2
^ *
I
00
°l
c
)
60
o o
3 |
g O
(Si s
ft, Kl
g § -S 8
r § a «
Eh g e^j
Ph ^ O
a s
to q
L 1
~
S S
rS « .SJ
O O
SO t> OS o CO
U3 C t> O t> rH O
r-t ^ rH CO
2 iO CO X
r-~ CO CO
lH 1—
1
CO CM r--
o =4}
Eh i C
< =
3 g
a a
a s
is..
S =3
5* I as
fS I c s
^ B5 O £
03
£ 13
S
to
g
0 =5 »
a ^ "S
1 SO
3 J3
O&h
11 ^
C3 C »
» £ £ %
: g a
t o
^ £?
'
£
;
3 j3
: 5 3
o a
g S
N
0 £
s
-
-
a
o
-
-c
^:
/.
-
° CO o CO CO
o uO o o d CO o
I—
(
—
O e: 00 t> h-
rH o CO
CI
a
a..
^ ci
§1
-c; si
5 d
S i » a -
~ 1
CJ>
1
1
"
w 5
II
5 I
s &
t/j fi^ 05
s
0 0
0 0 0
OS 0 0
t-t CO
Bra
a
a
6
•2 « -5"
o e o
C) Cb o
o cm
5 « a!
S s a
a. a ?
o
to
-
S R? =q ^ flq
03
=
'
0
S3
C3
-
s
is
£0
W —
cq ^
3
-
u
^>
—
1
-n
6 Si
~ q g
a 2 g
0 0 0 0
c: C) rH
0 CO
CI
CO
c.
ft!
5
8
G}
En
CO
I
—
I
CO
—
-
K
hi
05
o
Co
En
>
=N
=<
05
o
cc
I
o
Co
Q
y,
D
fa
<
r-
t
-
—
-
-
Q
fa
s iO
T o OS
H
GO OS
AS
(3
M
rH O «
c ca
u
s O o
a
f=q
o c c i£S
i—1 rH C !
O rH 3 CO
Si
to s
§ « e S
q « i
o - - -
hi ' -
'
Co
05
05
0,
Co
B
C<3
Oh
Co
Cn
En
Co
§
a o o
M irt O
O O lO
rH l~
CO CD CO
o CO O
rH
esq o
ir CO o
CC <M CO
of CO
CD CO D CO
CO 00 (M CSI
H
^ CO
lO m 00 to
CD 00 lO
C3
3
<5
.2 >>
B
63
_ a '
d o h
53 s
gto «
CD _
o o
C
rH Co _
&2
sis
c
as
-
o
3
5 &• r- W
•5 O ^ (3,
s» - - .
Rj " " -
oo
S«i
"* O 3
— c c
a § °
° JrQ
rH CD
O ijifi
m rH
»o >n
c+i irt
e c
s
c
B
O
IB
rH O M
CO I
ct a J
H OS
o
so o 00
-f CM 00 CC
-+ C 1 i- C!
EC 00 CO
tt)
—
-
i
Is
* g »
S rS -
8-5
-
o
'n
t~
CD
r»
c
n O
« O
o S o
«i *N O
« s~ CO
e ® <#
8
CO
o
CO CO
o GO nO
c to
—
'
iO
CO
03
-3 -
o "3
+5
a
o
+3
o
GO CO
sol 6s-
VP
; - —
on So
-
III -
O H o
o o
o 00
-
O -J
~
-i
o
—
I
CO
©
S * j
-O QQ +3
J? to
Q 85
M to ^3
° g §
Stfe
'3 « 0
P5 «j o
c o 0
s >. >>
« (J »
o g .9
O ,0 aj
83 H fa
§ -3 3
c o
2 3
.0 .
Ph
<3 ,5
03
O c3 <
O > CO
M = >>
™ — -
c3 "Eh *y*
<i -u — o
£ § g
O ti —
^ O 3
o o o
_ a
l~1 pr-
c a
x c
1 £
- -3 - « H
c: C «
c o a
1-1 Kl 3
C3 t-<
o o o o o
©©©©OOOC
1
00 * o o —
1
in i-i © so a
d ^ OJ Cl 1-
: « w - w
5C
> a
a o
lO CO
o o
o o
o c
iT3 i.O
Eh
s
•a
'3 ^_
K 3
-ts
El,
•3
-
Z
CM
32 M
CQ 0 CO
C3
B c
.2 0 «3
V CO
CO CO
t- o
o
CO o
I 2
CD L>
II
CO
o „
p, S
o o
rt CS CO © C
CO Cl 03 O O
O O H 10 o
^} trf ?) N CO
CJ 3 C O
+^ O O
r G ^
o _g ci
r/1
s I S 2
Hfip, 5
s? ^ a
0 cN cj
* TK # J3
CO
g & & o
= 5 3 g
O m m i:
a s g 1
tn O O ui
o O O t—
I
MCO CO
^
Kl -3 « *
cS t3 tJ 53
'c 5 3 i)
a it s (A
if -a -a _
t3 "3
3 fl fl K
o o o <a
v. — — —
0000
0000
Q
do
0
-J .b
2 a
*3 43 £
O ci o
O M O ^
Cl O U5 o
c*}
>> CO - a
cr
nuit
a
Si
>i
a
0
CO >a
a 0 ~
c:
— u
- 0 0 3
tH
-j
_
<v >
Defi
Ph
>. 0 a
5? 5:
-
03
- d
CO &
6
c
c oa
(&
-
flia
<3
O a
C
D3
n 0
O
O QQ
—
09
ci
00
V
tH
0 <t>
J-
93
Ph :
—
O c lida -a
C 0 2
n
u
V
or,
0
0
0
-
a
B
m\ Cl
=
a
CO
—
a
a
3
•2 ?
S s
c§ £
V S
X o
? -a
- r
r 5
.s
"
s J
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1933
member of the Council They also co-opted Miss Nea Walker and
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt to be members of the Council.
Obituary. During the past year the Society has lost by death
many old members of the Society, including Dr Weston D. Bayley,
Miss M. H. Mason, Mr G. Lowes Dickinson (formerly a member of
Council), Mrs W. E. Doane, Mr John S. Engall, Dr F. van Eeden
(an Hon. Associate), Mrs J. B. Gaskell, Dr J. W. Graham, Mr
Charles R. Johnson, and Miss M. E. Verrall. The total number
of deaths was eleven Members, ten Associates, and one Hon.
Associate.
Membership of tlie Society. Once again the general financial
depression is reflected in a decline in the total number of the Society's
Members and Associates, though fortunately the decline is not as
serious as might have been anticipated, and the number of new
Members elected shows a slight increase over last year. During
1932, 44 Members and 23 Associates resigned, and 15 Members
and 3 Associates were removed for non-payment of their subscrip-
tions.
The new Members elected number 45, as against 36 last year, and
the total membership of the Society, omitting Hon. and Corre-
sponding Members and Hon. Associates, is now 474 Members and
275 Associates.
Publications. Six parts of Proceedings were published during the
year : Part 122 in January, Part 123 in April, Part 124 in May,
Part 125 in June, Part 126 in July and Part 127 in October.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to
£92 19s. 10d., an increase of nearly £20 over the previous year. On
the other hand, the sales of the Proceedings and Journal to members
of the Society, at half-price, amounted to £23 16s. 5d., a consider-
able decrease on last year's sales, due no doubt to the decline in
the Society's membership. The returns from the Society's agent
in America amounted, after deduction of commission, to
£21 18s. 8d.
Meetings. The following meetings have been held during the
year :
27 Jan. " On the Evidence for Supernormal Occurrences in
Classical Antiquity," by Professor E. R. Dodds.
24 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
24 Feb. " The Psychology of Testimony in Relation to Para-
physical Phenomena," by Mr Theodore Besterman.
30 March. " Sittings with Valiantine and other Mediums," by Lord
Charles Hope.
27 April. " The Relation between Parapsychical and Paraphysical
Phenomena," by Mr W. H. Salter.
February 1933 Annual Rejiort of the Council for 193°2 29
25 May. " The Results of Recent Card-Experiments," by Miss
Ina Jephson.
29 June. Presidential Address by Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
30 June. Reception by the President and Council to Members and
Associates.
1 July. " On the History of the Society," by Mrs Henry Sidg-
wick, D.Litt., LL.D.
4 July. " Psychology and Psychical Research," by Dr William
Brown, F.R.C.P.
28 Sept. " Some Neglected Types of Evidence in Psychical
Research," by the Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J.
26 Oct. " The Complete Annotated Record of a Sitting with Mrs
Leonard," by the Rev. W. S. Irving.
30 Nov. " Supernormal Photography," by Major W. Rampling
Rose and Mr Fred Barlow.
REVIEW.
Hans Driesch, Parapsychologie. Die Wissenschaft von den
" Okkulten " Erscheinungen. 8vo, pp. vi. 149. Munich : F.
Bruckmann AG., 1932.
The object of this book, as Dr Driesch tells us in his foreword, is
to offer some guidance to the psychical researcher, first in the
practical observation of phenomena, and secondly in such theoretical
deductions as in the present state of our knowledge may legitimately
be made.
In his first two sections he discusses the conditions under which
observation of spontaneous or experimental phenomena—both
physical and psychical—should, as far as possible, be carried out,
and the various kinds of malobservation or deception against which
we have to guard. We may consider it a matter for mutual con-
gratulation that the methods Dr Driesh enjoins are generally speak-
ing those which this Society has tried to follow. Numerous appre-
ciative references to the Society and its publications will be found
throughout his book.
Dr Driesch next seeks to determine which amongst many alleged
phenomena maybe considered " basic", that is phenomena whose
occurrence and supernormal origin are sufficiently demonstrated to
be used as a foundation for scientific theory (p. 57).
Pride of place is here given to telepathy and thought-reading
(Dr Driesch uses these terms alternatively according as the agent
or the percipient is to be regarded as the active member in the
partnership) ;
in his subsequent theoretical discussion he makes it
clear that he considers these phenomena of psychic origin and not
to be accounted for by any hypothetical " radiation ".
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 19.33
To clairvoyance Dr Driesch also assigns a place as a " basic
"
phenomenon (p. 64), although its occurrence is not so well attested
as that of telepathy, partly on account of the difficulty of observing
it under conditions which shall make certain that telepathy has
been excluded. Precognition he leaves an open question, not yet
sufficiently determined for theoretical discussion, and he doubts
whether psychometry can on the present evidence be considered
clearly distinguishable from telepathy.
In his discussion of physical phenomena Dr Driesch agrees with
other critical observers in finding the present position very un-
satisfactory. He draws attention (p. 26) to the great difficulty of
adequate observation in darkness or in dim red light, and holds
that in the case of many alleged phenomena, e.g. " direct voice
"
and " apports ", the evidence is unconvincing. He does not admit
any physical phenomena to be strictly speaking " basic " as defined
above, but he considers that " materialisation in association with
the body of a paraphysically gifted person "
(p. 80) is in a high
degree probable. He includes telekinesis in this definition and calls
especial attention to Dr Osty's recent experiments with Rudi
Schneider ;
experiments of this kind, he suggests, afford the best
prospect at present open to us of setting physical phenomena on a
really scientific footing.
In the theoretical discussion which occupies the second part of
his book, Dr Driesch, as might be expected from his work in other
fields, expresses his firm conviction that a supernormal phenomenon
such as telepathy cannot be explained on any purely physical and
materialistic hypothesis, within the limit of spatial terms ; since
the phenomenon occurs, we must go " beyond space " into " the
unknown medium of communication " ; this medium of com-
munication we shall not find in simple " animism ", we must admit
some power in the soul of operating beyond the limits of the body.
Having made this admission, two further lines of advance are open
to us : one towards a theory of " world-consciousness ", the other
towards the spiritistic hypothesis, and as between these two solu-
tions Dr Driesch inclines to the second.
In view of the author's long-established reputation it would be
superfluous and impertinent to praise the scientific moderation with
which he sets out his case. Let us hope his book may do something
to overcome what Dr Driesch describes as the " inexcusable
"
negligence of official science " besonders in Deutchland ".
H. de G. Salter.
Fkbruaky 1933 Notes on Periodicals 31
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Nineteenth Century, December 1932.
J. Arthur Hill, Fifty Years of Psychical Research. [An estimate
of the present status of psychical research, a propos of the Society's
jubilee.]
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
January 1933.
[Dr Glen Hamilton], " Katie King " Manifestations in the
Mary M. Experiments. [The phenomena obtained in Dr Hamilton's
circle get to be more and more remarkable. The features of the
sittings now described are the materialised re-appearance of John
King and of his daughter Katie King, under the auspices of Walter,
and the materialisation by John King and Walter of a miniature
ship.]—Rev. Leslie J. Belton, A Theory of Telepathy. [An admir-
able essay, in which the arguments against any physical theory of
telepathy are clearly set out. The author's own theory is that of a
form of inter-individual consciousness, akin to Erich Becher's super-
individual mind.] The Margery Mediumship. [A letter from Dr
Crandon, followed by a reprint of the statement in the November
issue of the Journ. Arner. S.P.R.]—Mrs Elorence Hodgkin, A Sur-
prising Communication. [Information, as yet unverified, given by
Mrs Barkel about the lost stone from a sitter's ring.] —Three
Supernormal Cases. [A spirit communication through Mrs Mason,
a dream of no apparent supernormal content, and a case of healing.]
—Stanley De Brath, The Fifty Best Books. [On psychical research ;
it includes some good books and others not so good.]
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, December
1932.
David Gow, Hauntiugs and Uncanny Places. —Dr Mark W.
Richardson, The Margery Mediumship. [On apports and " de-
ports ".]—Space-Concepts in the Real World.—Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsychology.
Revue Metapsychique, November-December 1932.
Dr E. Osty, Spontaneous Telepathy and Experimental Thought-
transference. [To be concluded. This valuable paper will be
reviewed when completed.]—Dr E. Osty, Professor J. Babinski and
Hypnotism.—Robert Desoille, On some Conditions that have to be
satisfied in order to succeed in Experimental Telepathy. [The
writer points out that telepathy apparently occurs between sub-
conscious and subconscious ; hence it is desirable that the percipient
should first pass into his own subconscious, by auto-suggestion, the
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1933
idea to be transmitted telepathically. Incidentally M. Desoille
states that in telepathic experiments much attention is given to the
percipient, but none to the agent : this is not quite true of most
recent S.P.R. experiments. M. Desoille then restates the method
of calculating probabilities. Altogether a most suggestive little
article.]—M. Maire, Chronicle. [The clairvoyant E. J. Hanussen
undertook to give musical-hall performances ; but these were so
obviously fraudulent that the Paris audience refused to tolerate the
exhibition. The writer surveys the phenomena of spirit-photography
in his usual witty style. He concludes that the extraordinary vogue
of spirit-photography in England (he might have added America)
does not rest on any rational basis. A paper shortly to be published
by the Society will show the justice of this conclusion.]
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique,
January 1933.
A. Rutot, Monograph on a Case of Observable Survival.—A. Rutot,
Other Cases of Observable Survival.—Automatic Writing.
Zeitschrift fur Para/psychologic, January 1933.
Dr Jan Simsa, Experiments with the Prague Physical Medium
" Wolf". [The writer states that although the medium is willing
to submit to any control, he himself does not propose to waste his
time meeting the criticism of sceptics. Under these circumstances
useful results are hardly to be expected from sittings conducted by
him.]—Dr F. Schwab, Subjective and Extraneous Material in the
Statements of Mediums. [To be continued.]—F. von Reuter,
Experiments with the " Direct Voice ". [In the writer's private
circle.]—C. H. F. Driessen, A Well-established Poltergeist. [Nearly
half a century old.]—Prof. J. Kasnacich, Mystical and Occult
Happenings in the World War.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, January 1933.
Dr H. A. C. Denier van der Gon, New Methods in the Field of
Experimental Parapsychology. [On Dr Osty's sittings with Rudi
Schneider.]—Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Spontaneous Paragnosy. [A
collection of cases of spontaneous telepathy.]—Dr D. A. Dietz, On
Mediumistic Fraud. [To be continued.]
No. 493.—Vol. XXVIII. March 19.33
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 29 March 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" SOME UNPRINTED CASES ILLUSTRAT-
ING DIFFICULTIES OF INVESTIGA-
TION "
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to ivhich Members and Associates are invited.
c
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
Johnson, Mrs Allen E., Brixie Field, Godalming, Surrey.
Varvill, Bernard, M.R.C.S.. 92 Harley Street, London, W. 1
Wilson, William Robert, 3592 University Street, Montreal, Canada.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 303rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 9 February 1933, at 3.30 p.m., The
Earl of Balfour in the Chair. There were also present : The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman. Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
Supernormal Photography.
The 118th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
30 November 1932, at 5.30 p.m., Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair.
Mr Fred Barlow and Major Rampling Rose read a paper
on " Supernormal Photography ", which is published in Part 129
of Proceedings.
Mr Besterman said that most students of the subject would
agree that the paper they had just listened to had removed what
lingering doubts some of them might have had left as to the fraudulent
nature of spirit-photography. He felt that the only argument
that remained for the genuineness of the phenomena lay in the
recognition by relatives of the extras appearing on those photo-
graphs. He emphasised that such recognition was to all intents
and purposes valueless, and illustrated this by describing the
cases of the spirit-photographers Buguet and the Falconer brothers.
These two cases, one in France in 1875, the other in South Africa
in 1931, showed conclusively that people had recognised extras
where there was no shadow of doubt that these extras had been
fraudulently produced, and that they continued to recognise
them even when the exact process of the fraud was laid bare. He
desired particularly to congratulate Mr Barlow on the courage
he had shown in coming forward in the way he had done, to explain
calmly and dispassionately that his previous convictions as to the
genuineness of spirit-photography had been mistaken.
March 1933 Private Meetings 35
Dr Dingwall said that he wanted a sworn statement from the
friend of Mr Barlow's who had made the incriminating discovery
in Hope's bag. He asked how it was that no-one had searched
Hope in order to find the flashlight . He thought that the evidence
for the genuineness of Mrs Deane's spirit-photographs was too
contemptible to be discussed.
Mrs De Crespigny said that she was in a position to confirm
Mr Barlow's statement about his friend's discovery, and she felt
that she ought to do so. She suggested that if physical phenomena
bore certain aspects characteristic of the medium it was because
those phenomena were produced through the medium. She was
satisfied that Hope had produced genuine spirit-photographs.
Mr Marriott gave an account of various methods of fraud in
producing spirit-photographs. It was only astonishing that
mediums were so stupid that they employed the crude methods
they did. He had been investigating this subject for a large
number of years, and he was quite clear that every spirit-photograph
he had seen was unquestionably fraudulent.
Mr Feilding, Mr Hettinger and Mr Batehelor also took part in the
discussion, to which Mr Barlow and Major Rose replied.
Precognittve Phenomena.
The 119th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
4 January 1933, at 3.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones. Bart., in the
Chair.
Mr Theodore Besterman summarised a paper by Mr H. F.
Saltmarsh on " The Evidence for Precognition " ; and read his
own paper on " An Experiment in Precognitive Dreams ". It is
hoped to print both these papers in Proceedings.
A short discussion followed, in which Mr Lauwerys, the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas and Mr Trethewy took part.
Some of the gramophone records recently made of a sitting with
Mrs Leonard were then played.
THE QUESTION OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF PROVING SURVIVAL.
By J. B. Rhine.
Department of Psychology. Duke University.
This most important question has been very interestingly treated
in the article by Mr Saltmarsh published in the Proceedings of your
society (xl. 105 ff.), and in the discussion between Mr Saltmarsh
and Sir Oliver Lodge which follows. I find myself largely in
agreement with the critical evaluation there given of the alternate
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
hypotheses and of the various types of evidence considered, as far
as they are taken up. But I believe that some further pointing up
of the question may be achieved by giving attention to certain
special evidential possibilities not included in the article referred to.
That is, there are types of evidence which appear to me to discrimi-
nate more sharply between the survival hypothesis and the present
alternate hypotheses, than do those mentioned by Mr Saltmarsh.
If I am correct, such types would, of course, offer better assurance
of survival and would bring the whole question to a more definite
focus.
I shall continue on the working assumption of Mr Saltmarsh, that
each type of evidence has been represented by an actual occurrence,
since this keeps the discussion on the same logical level.
The types of evidence to which I refer as offering superior proof-
value to the survival theory are those which clearly show purposes
that are appropriate only to one individual, the supposed spirit
identified. The point in mind is that peculiar motivation is more
identificative of the " agency " involved than are data from the
past life of the individual concerned, facts describing his personality,
or physical manifestations claimed to be due to his efforts. I do
not mean merely that a show of appropriate motives has better
descriptive and identification value, though I do think this is so. The
case is more complex : I mean that we may take into account the
causation of these psychical occurrences, and we have to look for
this in terms of motives or purposes. If there are cases in which
these purposes cannot plausibly be ascribed to any of the living
or the dead except the " spirit " identified, I believe we have a
stronger type of evidence for survival than those reviewed in the
article mentioned above. Evidence of the peculiarity of motive,
of its restriction to the particular individual identified, goes farthest,
I think, to indicate the responsibility for psychical causation,
—
i.e.
for the agency of the process.
This evidence of purpose peculiar to a given " spirit " has to be
superimposed upon a basis of identifying information, which may
consist of facts drawn from the memory, personality traits, and
possibly physical occurrences. Such identifying material docs not.
as Mr Saltmarsh well points out, escape the explanatory reach of
alternate hypotheses. A sensitive alone might conceivably assemble,
these facts. They serve merely to identify a deceased individual
who might be considered as the " candidate ". Definite agency
must then be proved before the " candidate " can properly be
regarded as a surviving " spirit ". The function of proving this
appears to me to lie with that evidence that shows the purposive
causation involved to be appropriate to the * candidate ", and of
all persons, to him alone.
March 1933 The Possibility of Proving Survival :!7
The best type of this general sort would be one in which a deceased
individual communicated a message pertaining to a situation in
current affairs in which he alone of all persons living or dead would
be expected to be actively concerned, but which would be of great
significance to him. This message should come unsought and
unexpected, and preferably, should be an intrusion into the com-
munication stream of another communicator. If, then, it is a
message that is truly unexpected to those receiving or delivering
it, and yet is clearly appropriate and evidential with respect to the
supposed spirit who is identified with it, it appears difficult to find
a plausible source for the purpose shown other than in a surviving
personality itself. It requires, of course, a basis of evidence of
mere fact which will establish supernormality first and identify the
personality as well. Then upon this basis, if the purpose revealed
is appropriate and peculiar to the identified individual, is one that
has arisen since death, and is not appropriate to the state of mind
of anyone among the living, it makes a relatively strong case for
the agency of the person identified.
Let us suppose the following case in order to illustrate the type
more specifically. A woman, whose husband has died, and who has
never gone to a medium, receives a message purporting to be from
her dead husband telling her to go to a physician, and specifying
that something is wrong with her breast on the right side. The
message does not come directly to the wife, but comes in the course
of a sitting which a friend is having with a sensitive, under good
•conditions of precaution, and represents an interruption to the
communication which the sitter has been receiving and of course
desires to have continue. The invading communicator, however,
seems urgent and, after " taking control " and identifying himself
adequately, asks that the message be passed on to his wife. Now,
no one else knows of any trouble such as this in the woman's health,
and she does not, herself, know of it. There is, therefore, no
reason for anyone living to express the purpose shown in the
message—no one has the knowledge essential to forming such a
motive. The interest and expectation both of the medium and
the sitter are directed toward the affairs of the sitter. The message
that is forced through is foreign and could hardly be supposed to
be motivated by them. And the wife finds, after consultation with
the physician, that she has an incipient tumour in the place indi-
cated, which later becomes a menace to her health.
In the illustration given we may well suppose that it is possible
for the sensitive to obtain clairvoyantly such information regarding
the health of this woman living, and in other extra-sensory ways to
cognize the appropriate facts relating to her dead husband. We
may even allow that he might be taken by the medium as a supposed
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
source of the message merely as a matter of technique, or as a simple
matter of traditional belief on her part. But we cannot thus
account for the motive that thrusts this message in as a disturbance
to the medium's regular work and best interest. Causation is as
important in mental process as it is in the known physical processes,
and we have here a definite set of conditions in which the living
agencies are pretty clearly incapable of a purpose adequate to
explain it, as far as our knowledge goes.
This type can also occur quite as evidentially under spontaneous
or semi-spontaneous circumstances. Suppose an individual to
have a dream or waking hallucination in which she experiences the
presence of a man she does not know, but who is clearly identifiable
later, from her description. The person who thus appears is
much agitated and begs that someone be sent to his cottage to
rescue his dog companion that has been left to starve by the master's
death. No one has yet learned of the man's sudden death. The
sensitive individual who has the spontaneous psychical experience
had not acquaintance with the situation concerned, but feels an
unusual urge to carry out the request. This type of case does, if
it is adequately veridical, reveal a purpose that is not only most
appropriate to the man who purports to communicate the message,
but is, we may almost say, peculiar to him. Again it is true that
mere extra-sensory cognition of the clairvoyant and telepathic
varieties might supply the facts, but can it supply the causally,
effective motive or purpose ? To suppose that this hungry dog is,
in itself, enough to evoke a supernormal experience in the distant
sleeping individual, is simply to make equally eligible " potential
agents " of all the thousands of hungry or mistreated dogs, cats,
and other pet animals around the globe. Rather would the mind
turn to the more plausible supposition, that the mind of the dead
owner of the dog is in some way still active and is naturally con-
cerned to help his living companion out of his suffering. If the
man died suddenly, the argument from the chain hypothesis, that
he may have anticipated his dog's predicament while still alive and
have telepathically communicated the appeal to someone else, who
re-transmitted it to the later percipient, is not tenable. Rather,
we have here a post-mortem purpose, and one that is also clearly
an intrusion into the purposive system of another. This would
appear to me as highly evidential of the agency of surviving per-
sonality.
Such a case might well be semi-spontaneous, also, and arise in the
casual performance of the Ouija-board or in incidental efforts at
automatic writing. When the feature of unanticipated intrusion is
clear, and the peculiar appropriateness of the motive to the one
individual identified is established, I believe we have the telepathic
March 1933 The Possibility of Proving Survival
and clairvoyant theories pretty plausibly excluded in favour of a
survival theory. One can, of course, always cook up a hypothesis
of supernormal deception, in which purposes might be concocted
by a malicious or trick-loving spirit agent of some sort. But if one
has to deal seriously with such strange and remote alternatives, no
scientific conclusion can as yet be taken as established.
Another type of evidence of peculiar purposiveness might be
added which, I believe, goes beyond the types considered by Mr
Saltmarsh. It can best be given by illustration : A close friend
of a family dies suddenly and for some time thereafter there are
apparitions of him witnessed independently by different surviving
members of the household. Most noteworthy are the unmistakable
signs that the very young children and even the dog, recognize the
familiar figure of the apparitional friend. Now, after a time mutual
confession reveals that the " haunting " has been witnessed hy
several members, and one of the parents decides to consult an
authority about it. This resolve is kept entirely secret. The
consulted authority suggests a visit to a good sensitive, and with
proper precautions this member of the family holds a sitting with
her. Through the medium, who has no normally acquired know-
ledge of the home situation, there purports to converse the friend
whose apparition has been frequently seen. He confesses that he
has been much in the home lately, and explains that he is drawn
and held by love for the family. He expresses especially his love
for the little daughter who had most appealed to him in life. But
when he is told that it is not good for the children, he at once
agrees to leave. Now, although the children know nothing about
the sitting or its results, the apparitions cease from that time on.
All the family-members, except the parent who attended the
sitting, are likewise kept in strict ignorance ;
yet the apparitions
come no more. A year later the parent goes again to the medium
and again converses with the supposed spirit of the friend. The
latter refers to the earlier disturbances and gives assurance that
the restraint has been wholesome to him as well, and that there is
no further danger of disturbance through him.
The salient features of this type of case are : Assuming that the
experiences of the family were not brought on as a consequence of
grief and auto-suggestion (easy to suppose for the children and
dog), but were effects that call for an external source of activation ;
and assuming that the parent did not want his children to be thus
molested, but was sincere in his effort to rid the home of this dis-
turbance (also rather easy to suppose in a sane parent), we have a
fairly plausible picture of agency characterized by the strong
purpose of the friend to satisfy his sentiment of love for the little
girl and her family, both in motivating his apparitional " return ",
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
and later in motivating his departure. The entire series of events
and their purposive explanation fit well around the friend whose
apparition was recognized. He, and he alone, could be expected
to have the purposes leading up to such a chain of happenings.
(That is, not considering demon-tricksters, insane parents, and
other fanciful additions to the already ramifying and attenuated
telepathy-clairvoyance-subconscious-" latent memory " hypothesis.)
The type of evidence just described might be given a sub-type by
having the apparitions occur to unsuspecting strangers. Suppose
that a woman dies who was deeply attached to her house and a
collection of beautiful furnishings. These she has bequeathed to
a relative, with the wish that they be kept under certain conditions
specified. Some time after her death the house and its contents
are sold and a purchaser moves in who is entirely strange to the
situation and who knows nothing of the former owner. Then an
apparition of an old woman begins to disturb the household,
including different members of the family, servants, and visitors.
A medium is quietly brought to the house, without being informed
of the purpose or the past events. The former owner purports
to communicate, identifies herself, and protests against the violation
of her trust. She is informed that the present occupants are being
made to suffer, without being in any way guilty, and is prayed
for her own good to harbour no resentment even toward the erring
relative. After a period of exhortation and explanation the
" ghost " consents to be " laid ", and the disturbances cease from
the point on. Subsequent investigation reveals that the facts given
were true, and also that the relative who had sold the house had
not given much thought to the whimsical and impractical aspect of
her bequest, and had had no serious concern or remorse whatever
over the sale of the house.
In this type of case the purpose is specific and peculiar enough
to satisfy us. A question arises as to whether the old lady might
not have produced thoughts of a threatening type before she died,
and through the chain-process these might not later circulate around
to the occupants. But if she had fears for her plans, she would
hardly have left them as she did. If she died suddenly, unprepared
as to her plans, the chain-hypothesis is not adequate. If we raise
the question as to whether her beloved objects might not themselves
have stored up a charge of her presence which they could emanate
off through time in the form of subjective reproductions of the
original woman, we must remember that the mediumistic experi-
ment put a stop to them, rather as if they were a personality,
instead of continuously acting physical emanations. One can go
on to suppose that the medium helped the occupants, through
suggestion to stop sensing the emanations, even though the latter
March 1933 The Possibility of Proving Survival 41
may have continued. However, this still does not explain the
complete cessation of the apparitions, to servants and visitors who
do not know of the medium's visit. Let us spare ourselves further
comminution of these fine points ! To me this sub-type would do
much to assure the agency and hence the survival of the " candidate
;
'.
Still a further addition, making another sub-type, would be the
inclusion of some clear-cut physical phenomena, recorded from
the witnessing of more than one person. The opening of latched
doors which have no defect, the movement of objects, and other
such material changes, would come in this class. (Even the ex-
periencing of sounds, odours, and sights by a number of persons at
once, presses hard upon our credence to be ranked as " physical
"
all the more since the word is becoming so hard to define in view
of modern theory.) In this sub-type we would get further beyond
the extra-sensory cognition theories, and require more definite
agency. That is, it appears still more difficult to suppose the
" emanations " from the treasures of the old lady are capable of
opening doors and jerking pictures off their hooks, or to suppose
that the absent relative, who has sold the house and has more
or less forgotten about it, is actually in some unknown way moving
boxes about the attic several miles distant from him. In fact, in
the face of such suppositions as to the manner of telekinetic causa-
tion the hypothesis of " spirit causation " would be preferable to
most of us in the present state of the facts upon which the different
hypotheses are based.
Unfortunately, the most common purpose of the supposed spirits,
that of bringing reassurance of continued existence and happiness,
is close to what we might suppose would be the medium's own
professional purpose to be of great proof-value. The mere will-to-
communicate is hard to separate evidentially from the will-to-please
on the part of the sensitive, even the non-commercial one. Also,
this desire of the medium is too much in accord with the desire for
messages on the part of the living, for its use in distinguishing
between spirit and non-spirit theories. Thus we cannot draw
upon the most widespread motivating factors that we find and we
have to seek for the special and unexpected purposes, which are
peculiar to one deceased individual—such purposes as these illustra-
tions given above have instanced.
But there is at least one more type of case worthy of mention,
which would afford high verification-value to the spirit hypothesis
if established ;
and again the basis is peculiarity of purpose. But
in this we are dealing with the design or plan-aspect of purpose,
rather than the motive,—a type in which the design that the motive
takes on is not attributable to any but to the supposed communi-
cator.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
I refer now to a complex but unitary procedure in which there is
a promise or intention expressed clearly through a sensitive by a
supposed spirit personality, referring to a forthcoming event of a
physical character which is presumably to be caused by the spirit
individual. This physical event is then referred to later by the
supposed spirit through another sensitive and the agency in its
production laid claim to. (If the *'
physical event " consists of a
sensory experience shared by a number of individuals who were not
anticipating it, at once, I think we should have to accept it as
physical without requiring that it leave " objectively " enduring
traces. But for most critics the latter criterion of the " physical
"
would be preferable.)
Suppose, as an illustration, that a sitter's principal communicator
has been adequately identified, and has shown definite awareness
of his current affairs. Now comes the statement that the com-
municator intends to being about some event, physical in nature,
and of peculiar importance to their joint relation. For example :
that the clock would be stopped on the anniversary of the com-
municator's death, at the minute and hour of that event. Later
on, through another sensitive the communicator refers to the
circumstance, claiming credit for the causation of the event, and
refers to the earlier promise. The whole series is repeated with
altered circumstances but with similar outline.
The design shown in this series of related occurrences was not
that of the sitter or of his friends, since it had not previously taken
shape in their minds. And to suppose that the series was designed
by one or both of the sensitives is to suppose also that they are
able telekinetically to carry out the physical performance at a
distance of miles from the scene. It is probable that to suppose
such capacity resident in the sensitive herself is no harder for many
of us than to suppose it to be a function of the spirit world. But
granting both as conceivable possibilities, the design as a whole
would be appropriate to the spirit comnnmicator's interest in proving
her survival and continued happiness, and would suggest intelligent
agency,—all of primary importance to her. On the other hand,
the design as a whole is inappropriate and far-fetched to the sensitive
who without spirit intervention possesses such powers as this. It
would be an uneconomical way of practising her gifts, a wasteful
manner of exerting her influence, and a perilous fashion of gaining
fame from her powers, since it assumes deception. Such a strange
masking of her real gifts—if they be hers in her own right—under
the play-acting of spirit communication should hardly appeal as
it does to all such sensitives, however eccentric we may suppose the
profession to be. Wealth and power coiild be gained in a score
of better ways with such abilities. The multiplication of such
March 1933 The PossibUitji of Proving Survival 4:;
examples, then, say to the number of the good book-tests thus
far reported, would strain one's doubts to the breaking point and
offer proof-value of considerable weight. The inappropriateness
to the living of such designs, and their appropriateness to the
supposed communicator associated with them, again presents a
strong discrimination in favour of the spirit hypothesis.
I am disposed to think that a more persistent attack upon the
" purposive possibilities " might offer a still larger range of types
of evidence that surpass in verification-value those surveyed by
Mr Saltmarsh. At any rate I submit these few as material for
consideration and debate. It is very probable that others may
find weaknesses in the types proposed of which I am not yet aware.
Some of these I may be able to patch up and some perhaps not . But
I feel that the importance of this stage of the scientific method in
Psychical Research is becoming especially great in view of the fast
accumulating evidence seeming to bear upon the hypothesis of
survival, and in view of the introduction of new types of evidence.
It would appear that definite logical criteria are wanting in the
minds of most, and many just allow themselves to grow, or totter,
or drift into convictions pro or con.
Of most value, perhaps, would be the directive aid such sugges-
tions might give to the experimenters themselves ;
suggestions,
for instance, that appear to be in harmony with the general types of
phenomena occurring, yet which add features that enormously
increase the proof-value. And (if we may assume the spirit theory
for the moment) we might be able to furnish suggestions of value
to the " communicating minds " themselves, especially since a
considerable share in the burden of invention of improvements has
been claimed by supposed communicators. Furthermore, the
logical establishment of the verification value of various types of
evidence will serve not only to guide one in his degree of acceptance,
but will help perhaps, by furnishing standard values of evidence, to
free him from the uncomfortable criticism of those who believe a
little more or a little less than he. And such logical relations as
we can thus establish will help decidedly to elevate and coordinate
the hypotheses and the evidence into a higher and more systematic
science.
I shall not go far to anticipate objections that may be raised to
the proof-value of these types, since such conjectures can easily be
carried too far. Certain general objections, however, ought to be
considered briefly. For example, some people may not be willing
to assume that such cases as those described may be expected to
occur in reality. To this I will say that the elements of these
supposed cases have been reported by serious witnesses, and in the
main are common psychic occurrences. The special arrangements
44 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJt March 1933
suggested would not appear to offer insurmountable difficulty to
the agencies at work, so far as we can judge. There have even been
close approximations to these types among the reported cases ;
and,
it may be well to add, among the more respectable psychic literature.
Perhaps the most common objection is likely to be, that purposes,
too, can be " faked " or " acted ". This we have in part met already
in the statement of the suppositional cases. This point is granted to
the extent that, where a plausible purpose can be found for " faking
"
a purpose, the purpose in question could not be used as evidence.
Only those purposes which apparently would not fit into any other
personality setting or motivational picture than that of the identified
" communicator ", would be given weight. It is upon such cases
of purpose, definitely shown, that the above recommendations are
offered—cases, we may say, in which the " purpose-to-fake-the-
purpose " seems to be wanting.
Another question we should expect pertains to the large responsi-
bility apparently placed upon the supposed communicator's side
of the relationship. The feature of spontaneity (from the observer's
viewpoint) in the phenomena, that of intrusion into the normal
purposive setting of another, of planning beyond the expectations
and the knowledge of the living, and the like, all put the burden of
active agency upon the communicating forces, if there are such.
The answer to this is in two parts : First, it is upon that side of the
problem that we need to have the responsibility placed in order to
get. if possible, the evidence of independent agency that is crucial
to decision. And second, there have been frequent claims of such
agency by the " communicating " side, and a strong appearance
of a " will to devise newer and better ways " of settling the question.
On the assumption of the spirit theory, then, these proposals could
only be helpful suggestions to the communicators for the improve-
ment of their technique. It is entirely conceivable that such
co-operation in the logical consideration might be very important.
The purposive aspect of psychical evidence bearing on the question
of survival has already received considerable attention, and has
played an even greater role than we realize perhaps. The sitter or
investigator is more struck, I believe, by the thought, That is just
what X. would have done (or said) !
", than by anything else in the
evidential scale. The evidence for the purpose (or " will ") to
communicate has been made much of. The question of the purpose
involved in the assembling and organizing of facts that come from
the medium's trance has been uppermost in the minds of many.
But it is worth while, I feel, to go further, and to plan definitely
around the purposive aspect just what we can make out of it in the
way of more clear-cut verification of what is for many " the Great
Hypothesis ".
March 1933 Correspondence 45
Just as Professor William McDougall has said that there is nothing
more fundamental to mind in general than its purposive character,
so also I think it might be said almost as a corollary, that nothing is
more indicative of a particular mind or personality than the peculiar
purposes or motives that are known to be characteristic of it. And
we might point to the great part which " motives " play in the
thinking of those who deal with the various angles of crime, as a
practical illustration of this importance of purpose in identifying the
agency involved in a situation. The good detective commonly
follows a thread of purpose or motives through his maze of facts.
CORRESPONDENCE.
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —With reference to Messrs Rose and Barlow's very complete
exposure of the fraudulent methods of certain mediums who
specialise in " spirit-photography ", are there not other considera-
tions which, prima facie, would seem definitely to preclude the
possibility of any genuine " spirit-photography " at all—at least
when the experiment is made using the ordinary commercial dry-
plates and camera lenses ?
The spirit " image that is registered on the plate and developed
at the same time and with the same chemicals as the normal image
must have registered itself through the energy of light waves
brought to a focus on the plane of the plate by the same lens that
has correlated the light waves forming the normal image. To
suppose otherwise—to take refuge in the vague term
'
' supernormal
without analysing the conditions at all—is to make the whole use
of camera, lens and plate sensitized with silver bromide, simply
nonsense. If the " spirits " do not really use these things why
bother with the paraphernalia at all ?
But the " spirit image " light waves do not affect normal vision
—otherwise they would register on the retinas of the eyes of the
observers just as surely as they register on the photographic plate,
and the " spirits " would be seen. That is, the " spirit " light
waves must be outside the visible spectrum. Now they cannot
be of longer wave-length (infra-red) for, unless specially treated,
photographic plates are insensitive to them. They must therefore
be of shorter wave-length, i.e. ultra-violet.
Now the crown glass used in part of the components of the
ordinary photographic lens is opaque to ultra-violet radiation.
There is a definite cut-off quite close to the edge of the visible
4G Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1933
spectrum. The flint glass portion of the lens extends the cut-off
point a little further in the ultra-violet direction, but the lens as a
whole would not, I believe, pass any appreciable portion of the
ultra-violet radiation. How does the " spirit " image, therefore,
come to a focus on the plate at all ? To all intents and purposes
the lens is never " uncapped " for ultra-violet rays.
There is also another point. In some of the photographs pub-
lished by Messrs Rose and Barlow the " spirit " image is commendably
sharply focussed. Even the stipple marks of the half-tone blocks
" imitated " by the spirits are clearly to be seen. The normal
image on the same plate is also sharply focussed. But ultra-violet
rays, presuming they could pass through the same lens would focus
at quite a different plane compared with the rays of the visible
spectrum. That is. the two images, normal and " spirit " could
not both be sharply defined in the same photograph, unless, of
course, the "spirit" possessed information of the characteristics of
the lens used and a sufficient knowledge of optics to enable him to
calculate the right distance at which he must manifest himself from
the camera in order to correct the focal distortion. Perhaps that
is why so many of the " spirit " photographs are fuzzy—such
" spirits " simply do not appreciate the necessity of hovering
considerably nearer to the lens than they do in order to compensate
for the different wave-length of their reflection.
Yours, etc.,
G. W. Fisk.
THE " ARTHUR GRAHAM ""
CASE.
T<> the Editor u/The Jouhnai,.
Sir, —On pages 239, 240 of a book called The Truth about Spiritual-
ism by Mr Bechhofer Roberts, there appears an account of evidence
of " spirit communication from the dead " received through Mrs
Dowden and sent to the S.P.R. in March 1932. Mr Roberts writes
of this evidence, " Excellent, convincing, even unanswerable as
this case appears at first sight to be, its value as evidence suffers
from a- fundamental defect, which it shares with every other such
case : it is published without the slightest corroborative evidence ".
I took down word for word the entire sitting at which this
evidence was given through Mrs Dowden at the ouija board. It
was a very private matter of great concern to important people
and the information gained at this meeting was accepted and
verified by the lawyers and afterwards used in this most important
law case.
March 1933 Correspondence 47
I am not in a position myself to give the names of the parties
concerned as I promised to consider the matter as entirely confi-
dential. But if Mr Roberts is still unable to accept the evidence
furnished in this case he should apply to Mrs Dowden herself.
Yours, etc..
Marion Dawson.
[We gladly print the above letter, which has reached us through
Miss" Cummins, though we of course take no responsibility for Mr
Roberts's book. Mr Roberts's account of this case is based, he
informs us, on Miss Gibbes's letter in the Journal for March 1932
(xxvii. 223-4) and on the editorial note to that letter. The editorial
note stated that " it has unfortunately proved impossible to obtain
corroborative details of the above case ", and was written after
unsuccessful inquiries had been addressed both to Miss Dawson
and to Mrs Dowden. Miss Dawson's present letter merely advances
the case to the extent that it is now known that she was herself
present at the sitting in question. Ed.]
REVIEWS.
P. Thomas Bret. Precis de Metapsychique. Ill, IV, V. La Para-
psychique. 8vo, pp. iii. 132. Paris : J. B. Bailliere et Fils,
1932.
In this further instalment of his treatise Dr Bret is for the most
part concerned with subjects which do not he strictly within the
field of psychical research. He has a section on dream-psychology
in which he shows himself to be in the main a follower of Freud, but
with certain reservations ; he thinks Freud mistaken, for instance,
in turning his back so completely on hvpnotism, to which Dr Bret
attributes considerable curative importance. Another section is
devoted to a discussion of the various types of secondary personality.
As he has already shown in the earlier sections of his work (see
review in Journ. S.P.R., xxvii. 225-6). Dr Bret is a firm believer in
ectoplasmic phenomena ; on p. 62 ff. he discusses the theoretical
implications of " complete materialisations
;
'
of the human form.
To some of his readers it will appear that he has fallen into the
mistake of seeking to explain a supposed event before establishing
its occurrence. H. de G-. S.
Hereward Carrington, A Primer of Psychical Research. 8vo,
pp. 142. London : Rider and Co., 1932. Price 3s. 6d. net.
The remark " Psychical Research (or
1
psychics '
as it is so often
termed) " is an early example of the lack of critical precision which
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mauoh 1933
is, unfortunately, characteristic of this book ;
detracting disas-
trously from its value as a primer for the scientifically minded
beginner. The style also is diffuse, vague and over-loaded. The
author's convictions lead him to minimise and even neglect adverse
evidence : Hope, the spirit-photographer, and Eva C, for example,
are " nothing blown upon " in his account. A few extracts bearing
on these criticisms are taken at random :
" theoretically everyone
is more or less psychic "
(p. 107), " such phenomena appear to be
more or less common "
(p. 36), " in many cases the [phantasm] is
seen to open doors, lift curtains, etc., so we may assume that a real
phantom exists "
(p. 55), their objectivity is also proved by photo-
graphs which have been taken of them (p. 64),
" it is now thought
that both magnets and crystals give off noticeable auras "
(p. 92),
'
' various magnetic centres in the human body have been shewn to
exist "
(p. 113).
The whole subject is covered, but not with " proportional repre-
sentation " ; the human aura has two and a half pages, cross-
correspondences and classical knowledge tests one page together,
oriental magic one page, physical phenomena 23 pages of de-
scription. Sir W. Crookes's experiences with Home are interestingly
set out, and the chapter on mediumship is well-balanced and the
best in the book. There are several misprints ; an arresting example
being " cremated " for " created "
(p. 83).
E. S. T.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 494.—Vol. XXVIII April 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NO TICE OF MEE TING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 26 April ig3j, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND THE
WRITTEN WORD"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr STEPHEN CHANT.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.43 p.m., to zohich Members and Associates are invited.
D
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apiul 1933
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of the Society was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February 1933, at
3.30 p.m., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Mrs Ball, Mr Theodore
Besterman, Mrs Theodore Besterman. Miss Carruthers, Dr E. J.
Dingwall, Mr J. W. Findlater, Mr G. W. Fisk, Mrs Goldney, Miss
Isabel Newton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr W. S.
Montgomery Smith, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt,
Miss Nea Walker, and Miss Margaret Wallace.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting,
Mr Salter referred to the delayed circulation of the February Journal
containing the Report of the Council, which it was hoped would
have reached Members at least a week before the Annual General
Meeting. He explained that the delay had been caused by dis-
location of work owing to the prevalence of influenza at the printers.
As some Members who were present had not received the Report,
Mr Salter read the greater part of it, omitting only the paragraphs
relating to the routine work of the Society.
Referring to the accounts for 1932 Mr Salter pointed out that
the Society started the year with a nominal balance of £29 and
ended it with an actual balance of £64. It was necessary, however,
to look beyond these figures. The balance at the beginning of
the year was only a nominal one, as the Society had overdrawn
its Bank account to the extent of £111 and had borrowed, in
addition. £60 from the Endowment Fund. Instead therefore of a real
balance of £29 the Society started the year with a deficit of £142.
To have wiped off this deficit and ended the year with a surplus
would in a year like 1932 have been almost a miracle ; it could not
have been done if the Society had not during the year received
and used as income two legacies amounting to £337. In the par-
ticular circumstances of 1932 the Council were well advised not to
attempt to place any part of these legacies to capital.
Looking to the future. Members might hopefully observe that
some of the expenses of 1932 were of a non-recurrent kind. Mr
Salter dealt in some detail with the Society's financial relations
with Mrs Piper, and mentioned that under arrangements recently
concluded, part of the Piper Trust Funds had, at Mrs Piper's request,
been transferred to her, while the Society was no longer under the
obligation of making her any annual Grant. Before the new arrange-
ment took effect Mrs Piper had received during 1932 a sum of £52
from the Society's funds which the Society would not have to pay
again in the future. The Society had always recognised the great
April 1933 Annual General Meeting 51
services which Mrs Piper had rendered to psychical research, and
the Council were very glad to fall in with her wishes as regards the
transference of the Trust Funds.
It would be seen then that while the Society applied legacies
amounting to £337 as income, it at the same time converted a debt
of £142 into a balance of £64, and made a non-recurrent payment
of £52. This must in all the circumstances be considered not at all
unsatisfactory, and could only have been done with the help of the
generosity of several Members. For instance, as the result of hand-
some donations towards the Jubilee celebrations, not a penny of
the cost of the festivities fell upon the Society. In fact, the Society
found itself at the end with the balance of a few pounds over, which
had been expended on a badly needed clock with a Jubilee in-
scription.
The Society received during the year a special donation of £30
towards the printing expenses, and has since received from various
members substantial promises of further contributions to the
printing. If it were not for these gifts and promises, we should have
had last year and this year to cut the amount of printed material
very substantially.
Even more generous have been the donations available for re-
search, amounting altogether to upwards of £155 during 1932. With
these donations the Council have felt justified in embarking on a
forward policy in research, and it might interest the Meeting to
hear some of the research work to be undertaken in the near future.
The most important would be the further investigation of Rudi
Schneider by Dr Osty and our Society in collaboration. It was
intended that this medium, whose phenomena had attracted great
attention, should be studied continuously for several months under
the best conditions and with the assistance of the most up-to-date
apparatus. The Society was entitled to have a representative
present at all the sittings ; it would not probably be one and the
same representative for the whole period. This joint investigation
had been made possible partly by donations to the Society from
members, and partly by a grant by the trustees of the Myers Me-
morial Fund.
Fru Ingeborg Kober (nee Dahl) had kindly consented to pav us
a visit during the course of the year, and this was another piece of
work, of a quite different kind, which should prove of great interest.
In the last few days a further experiment had been conducted with
regard to Mrs Leonard. For the purpose of comparing the voices
of the different Personal Controls at sittings with various sitters,
Mr Drayton Thomas had kindly permitted gramophone records to
be taken of one of his sittings in the same way as at Mr Irving's
sitting, but in the Gramophone Company's studio, Mrs Leonard
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Aphil 1983
kindly coming to London for the purpose. In addition, the Gramo-
phone Company kindly permitted their studio to be used for a
simultaneous experiment to ascertain from what part of space the
direct voice at Mrs Leonard's sittings proceeds. This piece of work
badly needed doing, and of course it could not be done without some
expense. As soon as arrangements had been made for the experi-
ment, Mr Salter had written to the retiring President, Sir Oliver
Lodge, telling him of what was intended and that further funds
for this and other research work were needed, and Sir Oliver had
promptly replied with a cheque. Mr Drayton Thomas had also
generously contributed £10.
The Society was actively engaged on research, including work of
a kind not being done by any other organisation, and such work
could not be undertaken unless the Society's ordinary income,
reduced by heavy taxation and failure of some investments to pay
their dividends, was supplemented by gifts from our members.
It was not perhaps an auspicious time to try to collect money for
any purpose whatsoever, and he would not venture to make an
appeal to our members in general to contribute to the best of their
ability were it not that the Council had definite projects in hand,
which would more than absorb all the funds available for research
and that our retiring President and other members had already
shown such a good example.
The general financial position of the Society might fairly be
considered hopeful. The loss of members owing to general poverty
was regrettable, but not a matter for panic. The Economy Com-
mittee appointed a year ago estimated that a loss of income in
1932, owing to the reduction in membership, of £194 was to be
anticipated, but in fact, the loss was £68 less than the estimate.
There was an increase last year in the number of new Members
elected, and up to date there was a further increase over last year.
Any member who could not himself contribute to the Research
Fund would help materially to improve the Society's position by
introducing new Members.
A discussion followed in which the following Members took part :
Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr G. W. Fisk, Mr W. H. Salter, and Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council other than the six members
who retired by rotation, and she declared those six members
re-elected accordingly. Their names are : The Rt Hon. The Earl
of Balfour, Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Sir Oliver Lodge. F.R.S., Professor W. McDougall, and Mr S. G. Soal.
Messrs Hartleys, Wilkins, Avery and Flew were re-elected
Auditors for the forthcoming year.
April 1933 Private Meetings 53
PRIVATE MEETINGS
Communications of a Personal Kind.
The 120th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
25 January 1933, at 5.30 p.m., Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair.
Miss E. B. Gibbes read a paper on " Some Communications of
a personal kind received through Miss Geraldine Cummins."'
Miss Gibbes first expressed her compunction at revealing certain
aspects of family history. She pointed out that the best evidence
for the survival of human personality was generally of too intimate
a character to be published. In the interests of psychical research,
however, she felt that it would be wrong to suppress a case which was,
to her, so evidential of survival. Miss Gibbes went on to explain
that, though her case contained 19 statements made in automatic
writing at the sittings, which were unknown to her and to the
automatist at the time of writing, but which were subsequently
verified, it was more from the point of view of the reproduction
of personality that the Communications should be judged.
The Communications read purported to emanate from her two
deceased elder sisters and from T. M., a friend of one of them.
T. M. had died three weeks after the death of her eldest sister,
Norah. These three Communicators were entirely unknown to
Miss Cummins and T. M. was a stranger to Miss Gibbes. " Into
these Communications," Miss Gibbes remarked, " is woven great
accuracy of memory of early family feuds, and of controversies
between her two elder sisters." It seemed that this ill-feeling
persisted in the sphere in which these Communicators appeared
now to exist. The differences of opinion between these two sisters
must have originated at least twenty years before Miss Cummins
was born. In the scripts subsequently read by Miss Gibbes it was
noticeable that " the old arguments and antagonisms were resusci-
tated, the old petty grievances, quarrels and jealousies, recapitulated.
All the idiosyncrasies and peculiarities of these two sisters were
reproduced on paper by a woman who had met neither of them in
life, nor knew anything of their histories or characteristics."
Soon after her death in 1925, Miss Gibbes's second sister, Evelyn,
purported to write through Miss Cummins. Though Miss Gibbes
believed the surviving consciousness—or part of it—was com-
municating at the time, her distinctive personality did not fully
develop until the alleged meeting in the beyond with the eldest
sister, Norah, who died in 1928. Miss Gibbes explained that she was
never particularly interested in her elder sisters, and she did not
discuss their peculiarities with Miss Cummins. Moreover, Miss
Gibbes and Miss Cummins were exceedingly occupied at that time
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1933
with the production of further portions of the Cleophas scripts and
other matters. Very little thought, therefore, was given to the two
sisters in question. In fact, Evelyn had died before Miss Cummins
and she became at all intimate. She only visited her eldest sister,
Norah, about once a year for two or three nights, and this at a time
when Miss Cummins was away in Ireland. Therefore no details
concerning her would have been freshly in Miss Gibbes's mind and
at once mentioned to Miss Cummins. All the latter knew concerning
Norah was her name and the fact that she lived in the country :
that she had two sons : that she was trying to sell her house and
that she had a dog of which she was very fond. Miss Cummins
knew nothing of the family history, its quarrels and peculiarities.
In fact, the characterisation of all the personalities referred to in
the scripts went far beyond the small amount of knowledge in the
mind of the automatist.
There was also the unexpected introduction of T. M.. whose
personality and politeness were in strange contrast to the familiari-
ties of the two sisters. T. M. lived near Norah, but, so far as she
could recollect, Miss Gibbes had never met him. Neither did she
know anything about him beyond the following facts, which were
also known to Miss Cummins. They knew that he was a contributor
to a leading Sunday newspaper, in which he frequently reviewed
books, and that he was a friend of Norah and of her husband.
They saw the announcement of his sudden death in the papers,
but neither Miss Cummins nor Miss Gibbes knew anything of his
personality or of his affairs.
The death of Norah took place in a small, unattractive nursing-
home in Harrogate in the early hours of Thursday, 11 October 1928.
Miss Gibbes had been wired for on the morning of the 10th and left
London immediately. During the morning of 11th, Miss Gibbes
sent a few lines to Miss Cummins asking her to endeavour to get
into touch with her sister Evelyn. The request to Miss Cummins
in the south of Ireland, was as follows :
" Please ask Astor [one of
Miss Cummins's Controls ]
to find my elderly sister who died some
time ago and was spoken through you before. Tell her that the
sister named Norah has just died and perhaps she can get the sister
called Audrey to go to her." (Audrey is Miss Gibbes's third sister
who died at the age of 21 in 1894. She and Norah had been very
fond of one another in their earth-life.) No further information
was given to Miss Cummins and Miss Gibbes knew neither when
Miss Cummins would receive her letter nor when she would endeavour
to get into touch. Owing to necessary business very little further
thought was, in fact, given to the letter sent to Ireland.
On the morning of the 15th, Miss Gibbes received a script from
Miss Cummins purporting to come from her sister Evelyn and dated
Aprtl 1933 Private Meetings 55
the evening of 12 October. This script contained many details
which were quite unknown to Miss Cummins. The alleged Com-
municator displayed a considerable knowledge of the affairs of the
family and indicated that she recollected at least one dispute with
Norah of which Miss Cummins was entirely unaware. Moreover,
in characteristic fashion, Evelyn referred to the fact that Norah,
in her young married days, used to "go about and ride and was so
proud and pleased with herself." Further, Evelyn wrote that Norah
would not want her to go to her, which would be quite in order
seeing that, on earth, they continually quarrelled. She referred
to the fact that Norah''s mind was so restless before her death. This
was also in order, for Norah was extremely worried prior to her
decease. Evelyn mentioned that Audrey was " gentle and kind,"
which was also correct. In addition to this, Evelyn clearly indicated
that she was fully aware of the characteristics of the sister who, she
declared, had just passed over to her vicinity.
Realising that this script contained interesting evidence of sur-
vival and displayed certain characteristics connected with her two
elder sisters which were quite unknown to Miss Cummins, Miss
Gibbes refrained from making any allusion to the automatist
concerning either the communication or the recent death.
On Miss Cummins's return from Ireland sittings were resumed with
Miss Gibbes. The first of these took place one month after the
death of Norah on 10 November. On this occasion Evelyn again
purported to write. She stated that she " had actually talked
with Norah " who was very anxious about her husband. She went
on to say that " Norah, had such a pain in her chest before she died
"
(correct), that " she wasn't able to tell you " (correct). She then
proceeded to relate the fact that " some old friend came to her just
as I was talking, a man who brought her news. She was so sur-
prised to see him. He broke into our conversation. There was
something about a little dog. I know she mentioned a dog. Then
when this other spirit came, he took up the point where I left off.
He seemed to be connected with some dog or dogs, for he started
by saying, '
As the astounding fact is true that I am alive Mrs
Forbes it may well be that our dogs will follow us.' He talked then
about her husband and I was cut off."
Evelyn stated that this friend seemed to " have a lot to do with
writing and that he had left a half-finished article."
The friend turned out to be T. M., whose death had occurred
three weeks after that of Norah. He was devoted to dogs, a fact
of which both Miss Cummins and Miss Gibbes were unaware. In
a later script Evelyn indicated that Major Forbes (Miss Gibbes's
brother-in-law) had given him one of their dogs. Major Forbes
informed Miss Gibbes that he and T. M. often discussed the possible
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1933
survival of animals—a fact also unknown to both sitter and medium.
The statement that T. M. left a half-finished book was afterwards
verified.
At this same sitting Norah also purported to write. She intimated
that she was cognisant of the fact that Miss Gibbes was alone at
Harrogate when she (Norah) died. " Sitting by yourself in that
horrible place." and she made further statements which were
correct and which were unknown to the automatist. The natural
assumption on the part of Miss Cummins would be that others were
present. Norah wrote of how worried she was before her death
and displayed anxiety as to the financial affairs of her husband.
She then sent the following message to her husband. " Tell Austen
that we have met. I mean T. M. Tell him he is all right. Says
he saw him at his grave, and wanted to say, '
Cheer up, old chap.
Don't pull such a long face.' " Commenting later on this remark,
Major Forbes wrote :
" It is just what I should have expected him
to say." Miss Cummins was unaware that Major Forbes had
attended the funeral of T. M. In this communication Norah also re-
ferred to her two sons, making some characteristic allusions to
them. After this the pencil was again controlled by Evelyn, who
gave details of the meeting between them. She stated that Norah
had immediately expressed to her her disapproval of the manner
in which she (Evelyn) had arranged her will. This matter Norah had
frequently discussed with Miss Gibbes. Evelyn further stated that
Norah had always been so " domineering " and displayed a vivid
recollection of the incessant disputes which used to take place
between her and her sister when on earth.
Among other veridical statements made by T. M. was the following
contained in a message which he asked should be delivered to his
friend Major Forbes. " Tell him I was right. We do survive whole—
not piece-meal.'' In reply to Miss Gibbes, Major Forbes wrote,
" I remember T. M. in a talk we had about the future state, making
use of practically these words." Many other statements were made
by T. M. which were unknown to Miss Cummins and to Miss Gibbes,
but which were subsequently verified by his widow or by Major
Forbes. For instance, the widow of T. M. verified the following
remarks : It was stated that T. M. wore glasses, that he " seemed
worried about his glasses " ; that " he was wondering if dogs had
survived," and had remarked that " it would be most unfair if
they didn't " ; that he was fond of the country and hated having
to work in the city. Mrs T. M. wrote that " he always worried over
his glasses " and that he had often said in life that it would be most
unfair if he survived and dogs did not. He also mentioned that he
had another child by a former marriage, a fact known only to very
few and certainly not to Miss Cummins or to Miss Gibbes. Other
April 1933 Private Meetings
details unknown to them both were verified by Miss Gibbes's
brother-in-law.
In a few brief remarks Miss Gibbes endeavoured to analyse these
writings, pointing out that Miss Cummins was the writer also of
The Scripts of Cleophos and of Paul in Athens, and more recently of
The Road to Immortality, a series of automatic scripts purporting
to be communicated by the late F. W, H. Myers. All of these, Miss
Gibbes remarked, were produced in precisely the same manner yet
the contrast in style was remarkable. She said that it must be
admitted that the scripts just read were extraordinarily human.
She claimed that neither telepathy nor latent telepathy would seem
to account for these communications nor any of the other theories
connected with psychical research. She said that, in her opinion,
they were only explicable on the assumption that her sisters sur-
vived death. She added that she herself came to this conclusion
because of the convincing display of psychological traits exhibited
in these writings rather than through the considerable number of
correct statements made in them which were unknown to the
automatist.
A discussion then followed in which Mr Mead, Miss Macklin,
Miss Cummins, Mr Findlater and Mr Lambert took part.
Implications of Telepathy
The 121st Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
22 February 1933, at 5.30 p.m., The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., in the Chair.
Mr W. Whately Carington's paper on " Positive Implications
of Telepathy " was read by Mr W. H. Salter ; the following is an
abridgment of it.
It may well be felt that some apology is needed for presenting to
the Society yet another paper on a subject which has already figured
so largely in its activities. There is, however, at least one aspect
of telepathy which seems to have been strangely neglected, namely,
that of the positive inferences which may reasonably be made if its
occurrence as a fact in Nature be conceded.
Interest in telepathy has, almost exclusively, taken the form
of invoking it as a means of evading the plain implications of other
phenomena ; in particular, it is constantly called upon as an
explanation alternative to that of communication by discarnate
intelligences, which is the primafacie interpretation of most medium-
istic utterances.
Outside of a small body of instructed students, views about
telepathy appear to reduce to one or more of the following erroneous
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1933
propositions :
(1) Telepathy is an accepted fact of Science ; (2)
Telepathy does not occur at all ; (3) Telepathy is in some way like,
or akin to, " wireless "
; (4) Telepathy is of no great importance
anyway, except for dodging the supposed evidence for survival
and communication. I most cordially dissent from each and all of
these views.
It is well known to members of this Society that not a few in-
dividual men of science, including some of outstanding eminence,
have accepted telepathy as a vera causa ; and this is probably true
of all who have seriously studied the evidence as a whole. But they
themselves would be the first to admit that telepathy does not
enjoy, in the scientific world, a status in any way comparable with
that of orthodox physical phenomena even of the rarest types.
It would not be fair to attribute this attitude unreservedly to
prejudice and apathy. On the contrary, it seems reasonable to
suppose that it results from a very proper, if often unwitting,
suspicion to the effect that once telepathy were conceded the whole
materialistic apple cart would be irretrievably upset.
The main object of this paper is to show that this suspicion is
perfectly correct ; in short, that no materialistic philosophy is at
all compatible with the acceptance of telepathy as a genuine pheno-
menon. But deviations from the classical laws which appeared
final and immutable a bare generation ago have become the rule
rather than the exception, whenever extreme cases—of distance,
of temperature, of velocity or what-not—are encountered ; so that
we ought to expect rather than to resent corresponding deviations
from biological law when we intimately study Man—the extreme
case of biological complexity known to us.
Unfortunately, in addition to violating classical law, telepathy
is severely handicapped by its unpredictability.
But we shall be seriously underrating the evidence if we suppose,
as is too commonly the case, that it is limited to a few sets of de-
batably successful experiments supported by a relatively large
number of dreams, monitions, coincidental impressions and the like,
which may be persuasive but are certainly unassessable.
The all-important feature which telepathy shares with practically
all the so-called " mental " phenomena of psychical research is
that of " paragnosis." The percipient, that is to say, betrays an
acquisition of knowledge (gnosis) which is beyond (para) what can
be ascribed to normal causes and the operation of classical law.
But it is precisely this feature which characterises the greater
and by far the more important part of the evidence for survival
and communication. Thus, unless we are prepared to take the rather
unusual view that survival and communication are more probable
a priori than is telepathy, and to attribute all apparently telepathic
April 1933 Private Meetings
phenomena to spiritistic intervention, we are perfectly entitled to
claim practically the whole of the evidence for survival as evidence
for telepathy, even though it may later prove to be evidence for
something more.
In other words ; so long as we can concern ourselves with the
limited objective of paragnosis, we can throw into hotch-potch a
great quantity of evidential material relevant to very diverse
phenomena possessed of this common feature, including most of
those ostensibly of spiritistic origin. But if, by so doing, we success-
fully break the ring fence of classical law, we can then re-marshal
our evidence under its original headings and consider the claims
of telepathy, psychometry, spiritistic communication and so forth
separately and on their individual merits.
So far is telepathy from strengthening the hands of sceptics in
general, that its concession as a fact necessarily destroys for ever
the materialistic position, imposes a radically different type of
philosophy and, so to say, makes the world safe for survival.
If telepathy had anything whatever to do with wireless, other
than lacking the wires so abundant in radio apparatus, if there
were any possibility of explaining it by any extrapolation of electro-
magnetic theory whatsoever, it would automatically lose all philo-
sophic interest and drop to the level of a mere biological oddity.
Fortunately this does not appear to be the case for reasons which I
will now briefly indicate.
The most elementary point which arises is that as a matter of
plain anatomical fact there exists no bodily organ, whether a part
of the nervous system or not, of which the structure even remotely
suggests that it could in any circumstances act as a generator of
electro-magnetic radiation having the intensity and penetrative
power required.
More important is the consideration that all free radiation must
conform to the Law of Inverse Squares. That is to say, if you
double your distance from the source the " signal strength " is
reduced to one quarter of its original value ; at five times the distance
it is one twenty-fifth and so forth. Now, although we know all too
little about telepathy, one thing does seem clear, and that is that
distance has nothing whatever to do with it. Spontaneous and
experimental phenomena alike indicate pretty plainly that tele-
pathic paragnosis is as likely—or unlikely—to take place over a
distance of a thousand miles as over ten feet. This alone would be
sufficient to knock the bottom out of any radiation theory, unless
we complicate it by postulating some directive mechanism to con-
centrate the radiation into a beam. But I do not think that any
intelligent student would take such a suggestion seriously.
Much more important, however, are considerations relevant to
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1933
the underlying principles of the whole process supposed to be in-
volved, which must be essentially the same as that of all other
forms of mundane communication.
The essential feature of every normal method of communication
whatsoever is the use of signs, signals or symbols, of one kind or
another, in accordance with an explicitly or implicitly recognised
code.
This is easily realised in the case of the transmission of messages
by means of an artificially constructed code, such as Morse, or the
elaborate letter and number codes used for commercial, diplomatic
and military purposes, and it is equally true, if not quite so evident,
of the ordinary processes of speech and writing.
It would appear, therefore, that if we are to accept the radiation
theory of telepathy, or, indeed, any physical theory whatsoever,
we must suppose that some process of encoding and decoding goes
on
—
automatically, unconsciously and with respect to an unknown
code. This seems fantastic to the point of incredibility and any
theory involving such suppositions should be regarded as a most
desperate pis alter to be adopted only if we find ourselves incapable
of fitting telepathy into a more rational philosophic scheme.
The combined effect of these objections to physical theories of
telepathy is overwhelming and I wish to emphasise with all the force
at my command that, if this be so, we have but two alternatives
open to us : either we must discard as spurious the whole of the
evidence for paragnostic phenomena in general and telepathy in
particular, or—conceding telepathy—we must admit that we have
smashed for ever the limitations of matter and energy by which
materialistic science once sought to confine us.
Thus so far from the fact of telepathy serving to explain away
the evidence for survival it serves rather to put the whole realm
of non-physical phenomena on the map, even though we must
at present mark it as largely unexplored.
The foregoing remarks may appear discouragingly negative to
many minds. I hope, in the remainder of this paper, to make
amends for my iconoclasm by showing three things, namely : first,
that the problem which has imposed the wireless analogy on us is a
false problem ; second that once the true problem is envisaged a
simple solution presents itself ;
third, that this solution is congruent
with philosophic concepts which are not only impeccable in them-
selves, but conform to important tendencies of modern thought.
I suppose that to the man in the street, if he thinks about telepathy
at all, the problem presents itself somewhat thus : How is it that
an " idea " in the mind of A, at some particular place, gets trans-
ferred to the mind of B, at some other place ? Members of this
Society would presumably do better and would replace the conception
April 1933 Private Meetings 61
of " ideas " floating about " in " minds, like goldfish in bowls,
by something more sophisticated. Still, at the level of ordinarily
intelligent discourse, we may fairly state the problem in the
terms :
How is it that one mind, or consciousness, can act on another,
regardless of the intervening distance, otherwise than by materially
or quasi-materially transmitted signals or symbols ?
My contention is that this separation of minds is no more than
superficially warrantable and that the conception of distance is
essentially a logical fiction.
False, or rather, superficial, distinctions between space and matter,
between one object and another, between mind and mind—arise
from a too naive interpretation of experience. Most of us accept
without question the superficial antithesis of the self and the not-
self, of the consciousness of each and that of which each is conscious :
and we do not ordinarily doubt that there exists a real external
world of " things-in-themselves," which have properties, exert
influences, are acted on by forces and so forth. But actually, as
has been pointed out often enough, all this is a pure fiction—
a
convenient construct which happens to enable us to order our ex-
perience in a manipulable kind of way. All we really know at first
hand is the flux of our own states of mind—the modulations of our
own consciousness. Thus the localisation of " things " in particular
'"'
places " ; the subsequent view that " A thing acts only where it
is " and the resulting problems concerning the mechanism whereby
things contrive to act on each other in final analysis to mere arti-
ficialities. If there is any sense at all in talking about " things,"
except for engineering and allied purposes, it is more reasonable
to say that a thing is where it acts than that it acts where it is.
In precisely the same way, I contend, it is absurd arbitrarily
to localise consciousness somewhere and then to puzzle ourselves
as to how it manages to act somewhere else.
If the mind of A acts upon the mind of B, it is because they are
coincident. Bisking a somewhat violent compression, I submit the
view that : Telepathy comes about, not by transmission of ideas
but by community of consciousness ; not by the transference of
a Thought but by an identity of the Thinkers.
The general conception of an underlying community of conscious-
ness is far from discordant with modern thought in this field.
However strongly we may agree with William James that " The
passing thought is the only Thinker that the facts require," we
must none the less admit that mental phenomena occur as if the
momentary content of consciousness were but a fraction of an
indefinitely larger whole. This conception, largely due to Myers
in its early stages is, I suppose, as firmly consolidated as any that
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1933
can be found in psychological science, and it would be no more than
a matter of prejudice to seek to deny on a priori grounds that
subliminal or subconscious strata may coalesce, as it were, or
become continuous at a sufficiently recondite level, somewhat as
the islands of an archipelago find a common basis in the depths
of the sea.
Indications of such a view are common enough in psychological
literature.
[Mr Whately Carington then quoted two passages from Dr
Tischner's Telepathy and Clairvoyance illustrating this point of view,
and referred to the phenomena of multiple personality, the apparent
corporate consciousness of certain insects and the psychology of
crowds.]
There is one more line of thought which I should like to consider
briefly, the general character of all that is commonly referred to as
mystical experience.
If there is really anything in the nature of a fundamental unity
of consciousness in which we all live and move and have our being,
so that our apparent isolation as individuals is only superficial,
then we may reasonably expect to find this unity occasionally
realised and the isolation transcended.
Now, if we look at Mysticism in the large, ignoring the major
differences between the Eastern and Western branches no less than
the smaller divergences of the various schools within these, we find
as a cardinal principle common to all varieties of mystic, the con-
viction, based on inner experience, that there exists a Greater
Consciousness—a Universal or Cosmic Consciousness—with which
the aspirant, in rare moments at least, not only comes in contact
but is identified.
So long as he keeps to a recital of his own experiences, the mystic's
evidence is as valid as your own account of falling off a 'bus. You
may disagree with his interpretations, you may even use the ter-
minology of mysticism to define insanity ; but if a mystic says
that he has enjoyed a certain experience of enlarged consciousness,
you must either accept it qua experience or put him down as a
deliberate liar. Your quarrel with him legitimately begins only if
he is unwise enough to deny to your mundane experiences the
validity which he claims for his own, or to talk—as some have been
so rash as to do—about the " unreality " of matter.
When we are thinking about telepathy we cannot ignore philo-
sophy and, which is even more important, when we are thinking
about philosophy we cannot afford to ignore telepathy.
There can be little doubt that at the present time a notable
change is gradually making itself felt in philosophic thought. The
old antithetic Materialism and Idealism are alike, being superseded
April 1933 Private Meetings 63
save in the minds of a few diehards. That is to say, the contention
that Mind alone is " real " and Matter only an illusion is gradually
appearing as antiquated as the view that Matter alone is " real
"
and Consciousness a mere epiphenomenon. Even less tenable,
of course, is the self-contradictory system which seeks to represent
Mind and Matter as radically distinct yet contriving, in some
magical fashion, to interact. I fancy that it would be difficult to
reconcile the facts of telepathy with any of these naive views.
On the other hand, a standpoint which might fairly be called
that of psychological rationafism seems steadily to be gaining favour.
It connects up with telepathy and other conceptions introduced
in the course of this paper somewhat as follows :
It is recognised that each of us has direct knowledge or experience
only of the changes in his own mental content—which I term " mod-
ulations of consciousness." When certain varieties or groups of
these are related to each other in particular ways it is our habit to
say that we are dealing with material objects forming a " real
"
world external to ourselves. A different set of relationships, or
slightly different groups of modulations related in a slightly different
way leads us to judge that we are dealing with something unreal
or illusory.
This kind of thing is, it seems to me, all that can reasonably be
said about our knowledge of the External World, which is solely
a matter of formulating the relationships which subsist between
certain modulations of consciousness.
If this view is broadly correct, it becomes at once apparent that
the " things-in-themselves," which we commonly think of as
enjoying an autonomous existence and supporting the properties
which we claim to observe, are no more than useful fictions created
by ourselves for the more convenient ordering of our thought.
But this conclusion in turn at once requires us to account for
what I may colloquially call the unanimity of experience. Broadly
speaking, a number of people looking at the same thing, as we say,
will report on it in similar terms and there seems no reason to doubt
that the modulations of their consciousness are in the main corres-
pondingly similar.
Normally we take this unanimity for granted, but the moment
we begin to inquire into its origin an alternative of considerable
interest presents itself. The question is whether we are to locate it
outside or inside ourselves, so to speak—as a feature of the external
world or of our own consciousness. The former is the alternative
invariably adopted by the plain man and it is a perfectly sound
procedure for everyday life. But it is easy enough to show that the
ontological status of the supposed external world is not worth a
moment's purchase.
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Aphil 193$
It is, therefore, eminently reasonable to adopt the alternative
view, namely, that the reason for the unanimity of experience is
to be sought in Consciousness rather than in these supposititious
" things ;" and thus this philosophical divagation brings us back
again to the conception of an underlying community of conscious-
ness to which my suggested view of telepathy led us. It is signi-
ficant that such diverse lines of thought should begin to form a
tolerably coherent pattern so soon as such a conception is introduced.
The stability of the general view I have advocated lies not so
much in the strength of individual contentions—though all, I
believe, are sound enough—as in the coherence and reciprocal
support of its several parts. Whether we begin with the possible
mechanism of telepathy as such ; or with phenomena of a purely
psychological character ; or with those of an important tract of
religious experience ; or with strictly metaphysical inquiry, we are
led to very much the same kind of conclusion—namely, the con-
ception of an underlying community of consciousness far more
fundamental and far more important than the apparent segregations
suggested by superficial inspection or introspection.
I venture to affirm that telepathy is destined to play a far more
important part in moulding the thought of the future than it does at
the present time. There can be little doubt that the bridge between
the Rational and the Mystical, the Material and the Psychical, is
not only being built, but is nearing some kind of completion ; and
I am by no means sure that telepathy will not prove to be the key-
stone assuring continuity between the two approaches.
In the discussion which followed, Mr Hettinger, Dr Dingwall.
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr Mead, Mr Findlater, Mr Besterman
and Mr Salter took part. In closing the discussion Mr Salter said
that he felt sure he would be justified in conveying to Mr Whately
Carington, the best wishes of all members of the Society ;
although
Mr Whately Carmgton was now, for business reasons, living abroad,
he continued to take a very lively interest in the Society's work
and an active part in the work of the Committee of Reference.
NOTICE.
Mr Walter Whateley Smith desires it to be known that he has
resumed, as from 1 January 1933, the original surname of his
family, and that he will henceforth be known as Walter Whately
Carington.
No. 495.—Vol. XXVIII May 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 31 May 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"WHY I DO NOT BELIEVE IN
SURVIVAL"
WILL BE READ BY
Professor E. R. DODDS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
E
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
Bell, Mrs A. H., Backwoods, Lindfield, Sussex.
Duveen, Mrs Henry, 5 Stanhope Place, London, W. 2.
Russell, Dr A. V., 4 Oaks Crescent, Wolverhampton.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 304th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February 1933, after the Annual
General Meeting, Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair. There were also
present : Miss Ina Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Miss Nea Walker ;
also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor ; and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., was elected President for
the year 1933.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary and acting Hon.
Treasurer ; and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour,
Dr C. D. Broad, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, and Mr W.
Whately Carington.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W. Lam-
bert, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr Sydney C. Scott.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1933 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr S. Freud, Pro-
fessor Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem,
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Dr Walter F. Prince, Professor Charles Richet, Dr Rudolph Tischner.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, Rev. A. T. Fryer, David
Gow, J. Arthur Hill, Professor J. H. Muirhead, Professor Charles
Sage, Miss F. Melian Stawell, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr Th. Wereide.
CASE.
Hallucinatory Impression of a Relative's Death.
An account of this case appeared in the Journal for November 1932
(xxvii. 326). It was there stated that the exact time of Lady
May lf)33 Case 67
Ronald's death was not known. Further inquiries have since been
made, and it has been ascertained (by the kindness of the Coroner,
Mr Ingleby Oddie) that Lady Ronald was found unconscious at 7.20
on the morning of 25 July 1932, remaining so until her death at
5.30 p.m. the following day. It will thus be seen that Mme de Lara's
impression almost synchronised with the finding of Lady Ronald.
PROPHECY VERSUS PERSPICACITY.
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
Little inclined as I am to believe in precognition and premonitions
of future events, I admit that there do nevertheless exist in that
sphere a few (very few !) puzzling cases. Let us here take one of the
most puzzling, analyse it and see if it is not susceptible of a normal
explanation. We are indebted for it to our highly esteemed
Corresponding Member Professor Max Dessoir of Berlin, and I will
reproduce it here from his book Vom Jenseits der Seek (1931),
pp. 145-6. with slight abbreviations.
On 3 August 1914 (let us note the date) Major Guido von Gill-
hausen (Berlin) of the 3rd regiment of the Guards sent, we are told,
in a registered letter to Prince Frederic-William of Prussia, at
Camenz, a description of a vision (apparently) seen at 2 a.m. on the
same day. The vision—it seems rather to have been a series of
visions—deals with the coming war. Von Gillhausen sees passing
before him " many enemies "
;
among them he recognises Belgium
with particular distinctness. Next to France he sees also England
as Germany's chief enemy, which, he asserts, pushes forward,
tramples upon and brutally dominates France. In Africa, von
Gillhausen further says, " we shall also have to fight heavily ", and
there seem to be whites there who attempt to annihilate the Germans.
Between the two hemispheres von Gillhausen sees an indistinct
form, as to the identity of which he is not certain (Spain ?). Italy
hastens to join England, Russia and France. In the Balkans von
Gillhausen sees Serbia and Rumania. He tries to " stiffen himself
against Rumania ", but it " remains ". Russia gives Germany
much trouble, but finally succumbs, though helped by Japan,
whilst America helps England. Here von Gillhausen sees [Theo-
dore] Roosevelt hand bread and wine to the King of England, pat
him on the shoulder and provide him with money, a powder-flask, a
dagger and bullets. " And yet was not Roosevelt our friend ?
"
The war will be fearful and will last many years. New enemies
incessantly appear hurrying towards England from all parts of the
earth. The Germans will have to fight over enormous distances
and nearly all the peoples of the earth will take part in the fighting.
Von Gillhausen sees the war extending from North America to
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
Australia and from Serbia and Japan to Cape Horn. England is
everywhere. She is firmly entrenched in all the ministries of
Germany's enemies and rules brutally and selfishly, all bowing down
before her, without a single exception. Germany is in a dreadful
state and the year 1918 will be the worst. Only in 1920 does the
war seem to end
—" or is it only an armistice ? so it seems to be."
" Will the Kaiser still live in 1921 ?
" Von Gillhausen sees him in an
ermine mantle with a crown on his head sawing off the legs of his
own throne ; the ermine mantle grows more and more gray and
dusty, gradually falling to pieces, whilst the crown gets smaller and
smaller and at last the Kaiser vanishes {in Nichts zerrann).
" It seems to me as if England received the death-blow in Egypt
and India. I see there movement as in an ant-hill. Germany is
terribly weakened by the war and wants thirty years to recover ;
Russia wakes up and struggles with America for the possession of
the future. God be with us."
As stated above this remarkable prediction was sent early on the
same day to Prince Frederic-William, a covering letter requesting
him to keep the prophecy. Apparently the Prince took cognizance
of it, but in Autumn 1915 returned it to the Major, in whose writing-
desk the prophecy was discovered by von Gillhausen's executors
after his death on 10 May 1918. We are told that that young officer
had never cared for politics, but had often experienced trances and
seen visions foretelling the future in a remarkable way.
As Professor Dessoir nowhere implies that he has doubts as to the
authenticity of the von Gillhausen prediction, and as it is absolutely
inconceivable that he should have reproduced it in his work if he
had such doubts, without stating them, we are bound to regard it
as genuine. The question then arises whether we are therefore also
compelled to conclude that it implies foreknowledge of the future
in the strict sense of the word.
The first obvious objection to occur to us will be that the World
War most undoubtedly engendered thousands of predictions. No
less undoubtedly the great majority of these proved utterly ground-
less. The von Gillhausen prophecy may have been one of the very,
very few relatively exact ones which have survived. I am personally
acquainted with a case when the war was predicted (in 1917) at a
spiritistic sitting to end on Sunday, 10 November ; as a matter of
fact it ended on a Monday, 11 November. 1
The coincidence is very
striking, but how can we attach to this episode any decisive im-
portance in the positive sense in view of the great number of pre-
dictions most certainly made in the same sphere and subsequently
belied by the events ? Cannot chance, pure and simple—too often
1
Zeitschrift fur kritischen Olckultismus (1928), iii. 126.
May 1933 Prophecy versus Perspicacity 69
insufficiently taken into account—-bring about at times the most
amazing coincidences ? The same argument could, I suppose, with
equal force be applied to von Gillhausen's vision.
I do not however wish to press it unduly. For we have here at
hand another tentative explanation, at least as—and possibly much
more—satisfactory. Will not perspicacity explain the bulk of the
von Gillhausen " prophecy %
" We are told, it is true, by Dr
Dessoir (on the authority of von Gillhausen's brother) that that
young officer did not care for politics at all. But he was in any case
a cultivated man. Can we not therefore postulate unconscious
perspicacity, perhaps manifesting itself with peculiar intensity m
the abnormal state in which von Gillhausen must have been m
the night from 2 August to 3 August, an unconscious perspicacity
not excluding perhaps lucky hits ?
We know in any case that conscious perspicacity can occasionally
achieve in the same domain results at least equal if not more striking.
I say " We know," because we have happily in our possession a
document of very great interest which proves this beyond the
possibility of cavil. To the examination of that document we shall
now turn.
M. Peter Dournovo had been under Alexander 111 (.Nicholas 11 s
father) director of the Russian Police Department, and under
the last of the Romanovs he was for rather a short time (1905-1906)
Minister of the Interior. On his resignation he was appointed by
the Tsar member of the Council of the Empire (the House of Lords
of Imperial Russia), where he was one of the leaders of the Right
wing. Throughout his political career he had been a thorough
;<
die-hard" and a staunch enemy of the revolutionists. In
February 1914 he submitted to his Sovereign a memorandum on
the political situation. The memorandum began with the assertion
that Anglo-German rivalry was the " central factor of the period
we are living in " and that this rivalry will unavoidably result m an
armed conflict between these two Powers, a conflict the issues of
which will probably be " mortal " for the vanquished side. M.
Dournovo then attempted to prove that the then anglophile ten-
dency of Russian diplomacy was erroneous ;
that Russia would
derive no benefit from her rapprochement with England ;
that she
had no interest whatever in being estranged from Germany ;
and
that on the contrary her interest lay in an agreement with that
country, an agreement from which M. Dournovo did not exclude
France and which he wished to see completed by a defensive alliance
with Japan. M. Dournovo then insisted on the tremendous
difficulties inherent for his country in a war with Germany, on the
inadequacy in some respects of the Russian armaments, on the
impossibility of recuperating the gigantic expenses incurred m such
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
a war, even in the case of eventual victory, and on the fact that a
social revolution of a most radical character would be inevitable in
Russia should that country be defeated (he added that the same
would happen to Germany if vanquished).
The chief interest of the Dournovo memorandum lies however
elsewhere : in his analysis of the positions to be occupied by different
States, should a war break out. It is to him " obvious " that
Russia, France and England will form one " basic " group, whilst
Germany, Austria and Turkey will make another. It is " more
than probable " that other Powers too will take part in the conflict.
Italy, if she understands ever so little her interests, will not join
Germany. More than this : the possibility of her joining the
anti-German coalition if the war should take a turn favourable to
the latter, is not excluded. Her position is similar to that of
Rumania, who will probably remain neutral until the fortune of war
has favoured this or that side : then " led by a healthy political
egotism " Rumania will join the victors in order to be rewarded
at the expense either of Russia or of Austria[-Hungary]. Serbia
and Montenegro will most certainly side with the enemies of Austria,
whilst Bulgaria and Albania
—" supposing the latter to have
formed at the time if only an embryonic State "
—will be among
the enemies of Serbia. Greece will probably remain neutral or will
join the enemies of Turkey, but only after the issue of the war has
become more or less clear. The participation of Sweden in the war
is to be apprehended, " of course " on the side of Russia's enemies.
M. Dournovo is further of opinion that the main burden of war
with Germany will fall on Russia, " since England is hardly able to
take part in a continental war on a large scale," whilst France which
is poor so far as " human material " is concerned " will probably
pursue strictly defensive tactics." Russia will therefore have to
play the chief part notwithstanding so many hostile factors. From
these factors the [Far] East is however to be excluded. America
and Japan are both hostile to Germany, the former from its very
nature, the latter " in view of the present political orientation."
Russia's rear is therefore completely secured so far as the Far East
is concerned : at most she will have to pay for a benevolent neutra-
lity with some economic concessions. More than this, it is con-
ceivable that America and Japan will side with the enemies of
Germany, but of course will content themselves with seizing badly
protected German colonies. On the other hand a new explosion
of hostility to Russia in Persia will undoubtedly occur, troubles
among the Moslems of the Caucasus and of Turkestan are possible
and an intervention of Afghanistan against Russia in connection
with these troubles is not excluded. Finally, very unpleasant
complications in Poland and in Finland are to be foreseen ; in the
Mat 1933 Prophecy versus Perspicacity 71
latter country an insurrection will unavoidably break out if Sweden
happens to be among Russia's enemies. As for Poland it is to be
expected that Russia will be unable to keep that country in her
hands during the whole war : therefore when in the enemy's hands
the latter will most certainly attempt to provoke an insurrection :
another unfavourable if not very dangerous factor. Apart from
this " the influence of our allies may well induce us in the sphere of
our relations with Poland to acts more dangerous for us than any
open insurrection." In the last sentence the Russian " die-hard
"
speaks out distinctly.
We shall now proceed to an analysis of both documents leaving
aside in the von Gillhausen prophecy such statements as still await
fulfilment, such as England receiving the death-blow in India and
Egypt, Germany needing thirty years to recover, etc.
What strikes us most first of all in this prophecy, is the categorical
statement that the war will last a long time. Of course Lord
Kitchener stated later in the same year (1914) that it would last
three years at least ; but then it was Lord Kitchener ! That the
great majority of the German officers thought otherwise and ex-
pected a campaign of a few months' duration may well be presumed.
Another point to be noted is the extension in space assigned by
von Gillhausen to the war, which, he says, he sees raging from North
America to Australia and from Japan and Serbia to Cape Horn. Of
course something of the kind was likely to occur once Great Britain
and her Dominions and Colonies, not to mention her Allies, were to
fight not only the German Empire but also its Colonies, but the
picture is impressive. Less impressive is the fact that France,
Belgium and Great Britain are emphatically stated to be Germany's
enemies early in the morning of 3 August, whilst war was declared
by Germany on France on that day, but some hours later, and whilst
Belgium and England declared war only on the 4th. It is to be
expected that in von Gillhausen's milieu Germany's plan of invading
Belgium (though not of course Belgium's refusal to let the German
army pass !) was already known on 2 August ; as for England
making war it was not an unreasonable deduction (though not a
certain one) from the whole international situation. A Franco-
German war on the other hand became inevitable after Germany
had declared war on Russia on 1 August. Whether Belgium did
really inflict on Germany, as von Gillhausen's prophecy asserts,
''frightful wounds in boundless cruelty" might perhaps be
questioned.
No mention of Belgium appears in the Dournovo memorandum,
but the part to be played by England in the future conflagration is
there specified not one or two days before 4 August but months
before.
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
We now pass to other items figuring either in both documents or
intone of them :
Italy. Von Gillhausen says positively that Italy will " hasten
"
to join England, Russia and France (the word " hasten " is hardly
exact since Italy declared war on Austria only at the end of May
1915). Dournovo is less explicit. As is well known, some clair-
voyant Germans and Austrians had long foreseen the part Italy
would play in a European war ; whether many Austro-German
diplomatists were among these clairvoyant people may well be
doubted (Dournovo, by the way, had never been a diplomatist).
Rumania. The passage dealing with Rumania in the von Gill-
hausen prophecy is very remarkable : he cannot understand, he
says, why Rumania is there and tries to get rid of her (" stiffens
himself against her "), but without success. This insistence is
striking, though it is not expressly stated that Rumania will be
among German's enemies. Dournovo rightly foresees that Rumania
is very likely not to adhere to the Austro-German coalition but does
not go further. He sees however Rumania obtaining territorial
advantages at the expense of either Austria-Hungary or Russia.
As a matter of fact Rumania has obtained such advantages from
both sides by annexing both Bessarabia (Russia) and Bukovina,
Transylvania and the Banat (Austria-Hungary).
Turkey. It will be remembered that Turkey declared war on
Russia only in October 1914, several months after the hostilities
had begun. It is conceivable that it would not have sided with
Germany and Austria-Hungary at all if the Entente had behaved
more energetically—and more intelligently ; in particular if the
cruisers Goben and Breslau sent by the Kaiser to Constantinople had
been prevented from entering the Dardanelles. Therefore its
participation in the war was not a foregone conclusion.
Bulgaria. That country had been liberated by Russia from the
Turkish yoke in 1877-1878, streams of Russian blood being shed.
To many Russians the idea of Bulgaria joining in a European war
an anti-Russian coalition would therefore have appeared before
1914, in spite of the second Balkan War of 1913 (Bulgaria against
Serbia, Greece and Rumania), as almost preposterous. Not so to
Dournovo.
Greece. That country remained in fact more or less neutral
through almost the whole war, joining the Entente only in 1917
after King Constantine's forced abdication.
As neither Turkey, nor Greece, nor Bulgaria are mentioned in von
Gillhausen's vision whilst their future positions in the war are quite
correctly delineated by Dournovo, the Russian statesman here
scores heavily over the Prussian officer and seer.
The latter takes a revanche so far as Russia is concerned, which
May 1933 Prophecy versus Perspicacity 73
country he rightly sees " succumbing, " whilst Dournovo thinks
possible both a victory and a defeat of the Russian Empire and does
not commit himself.
So far as America and Japan are concerned, both the Russian and
the German are positive that these two countries will not join
Germany, but von Gillhausen states categorically that they will help
respectively England and Russia whilst Dournovo is not so explicit :
he simply admits the possibility of their siding with the Entente.
In the part of his memorandum dealing with Poland (not men-
tioned by von Gillhausen at all), there are some statements more or
less corresponding with future events. As a matter of fact Russian
Poland passed in 1915 from Russian into German hands, though
there was no " insurrection " strictly speaking. And in August
1914 already some promises were given to Poland in a manifesto
signed by the Grand Duke Nicholas, Commander-in-Chief, which
promises were undoubtedly in accordance with the wishes of
Russia's allies.
The Kaiser. The von Gillhausen prophecy contains a very
striking and picturesque passage which must be interpreted as
signifying that William II will vanish from the scene. No mention
of the Kaiser's probable fate occurs in the Dournovo memorandum,
though in another part its author contemplates the possibility of a
social revolution in Germany, which he even thinks (wrongly it
appears) is likely to assume proportions as frightful as the Russian
upheaval.
We shall now pass to the erroneous statements which both docu-
ments contain. Von Gillhausen throws out tentatively the date
of 1920 as that of the Peace or Armistice and that of 1921 as possibly
connected with the Kaiser's death. Both are wrong, and this
circumstance deprives of much of its value the mention of the year
1918 as a year of particular hardship for Germany, which would
otherwise have been very impressive. It is also to be presumed that
von Gillhausen's statements as to the character of the Anglo-French
relations during the war will appear quite incorrect if not ludicrous
to most Englishmen. Two of Dournovo's mistakes the Anglo-Saxon
reader will have already noticed : one deals with Great Britain's
supposed incapacity to lead a war on the continent ; the other
consists in asserting that America, if she declares war on Germany,
will content herself with seizing some ill-defended German colonies.
In estimating other mistaken statements we are somewhat ham-
pered by the fact that they are sometimes formulated in a dubitative
form, e.g., Sweden will be found among Russia's enemies if it takes
part in the war and Finland will then revolt ; Albania will side
with the enemies of Serbia if Albania has already become an em-
bryonic State. Still, it is definitely asserted that an explosion of
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
anti-Russian feeling will " undoubtedly " take place in Persia (most
probably a prediction unconfirmed by fact) and there are other
mistaken assertions. Dournovo is therefore not infallible. But
von Gillhausen is not infallible either and it is curious that he is-
silent on the most crucial point, viz., whether his country will
vanquish or be defeated. (Is not his account of his vision purposely
incomplete on that point ?) On the whole, it is pretty safe to assert
that the Russian statesman's foreknowledge as displayed in his
memorandum to the Tsar is by no means inferior to that of the
Prussian officer—to say the least.
It must not be forgotten that the von Gillhausen prophecy is one
of the most extraordinary—if not the most extraordinary—political
prophecies we know of. By the way, though not free from mistakes,
it well exemplifies a typical weakness inherent in that class of
alleged supernormal " phenomena " : the more extraordinary a
prophecy, prediction or premonition, the more we are inclined, after
its fulfilment, to doubt its genuineness ! It is pretty sure that the
von Gillhausen vision will prove no exception to that sinister rule,
and that many people on becoming acquainted with it will say. now
that it has been partly fulfilled : it is a hoax !
To this objection (unfounded, I think) the Dournovo case is not
open. The memorandum was published in a Soviet review (the
Krasnaia Nov) as far back as 1922 and about that time I read an
extract from it, which impressed me greatly, in a Russian daily
then published in Berlin. Still, though it was difficult to understand
why the bolsheviks should have forged a document so much to the
credit of the intellectual faculties of a statesman who had invariably
showed himself a fierce opponent of the enemies of the Tsarist
regime, a very slight doubt as to the authenticity of the memoran-
dum may have lingered in my mind. Quite recently however I
was lent a typewritten copy of it by a friend of mine and former
colleague at the Russian Imperial Foreign Office, which copy that
friend made as far back as August or September 1914. It is this
copy I have used for my present paper. Needless to say that
source has nothing in common with bolshevist sources. The
genuineness of the Dournovo memorandum seems to me therefore
almost or quite beyond question and that document may be con-
fidently used as a basis for speculation.
We are therefore justified in concluding that : Perspicacity
{political perspicacity at least) may occasionally bring about results at
least as bewildering as so-called prophecy or premonition. We are not
bound therefore to postulate a supernormal explanation, seeing that a
normal one is proved to be perfectly legitimate—especially if we keep
in view the possibility of lucky chance-coincidence besides.
Mat 1933 Correspondence 75
CORRESPONDENCE.
Supernormal Occurrences in Classical Antiquity.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—My thanks are due to Professor E. R. Dodds for his note in
the November Journal. I did not attempt to criticise his discussion
of the relation of spiritualism and Neoplatonism ; for I have not
studied either of those subjects—the little I know about spiritualism
has been taught me by the S.P.R. But in so far as his previous paper
took account in general of Greek thought about immortality, there
seemed to me to be no irrelevance about calling attention to what
another great scholar has advanced on the subject, especially as
Friedlander prefaces his remarks with the observation that belief
in an inner connection of the spirit world with the world of the
living and a constant invasion of the latter by the former was, among
both Greeks and Romans, both widespread and very old.
Yours, etc.,
H. Northcote.
REVIEWS.
Geraldine Cummins, The Road to Immortality. 8vo, pp. 195.
London : Ivor Nicholson and Watson, Ltd., 1932. Price 6s.
net.
Miss Cummins is a non-professional automatic writer, the daughter
of the late Professor Ashley Cummins, M.D., of Cork. She is already
known to readers of psychic books through her volume entitled
The Scripts of Cleophas and other writings. In the volume under
review she presents some communications purporting to come from
the late F. W. H. Myers. She had not read Human Personality and
its Survival of Bodily Death, and knew very little about him. The
writing was done at great speed, sometimes at the rate of two thou-
sand words in an hour and a quarter. The sensitive's state was one
of abstraction or semi-trance, and her friend Miss Gibbes changed
the sheets of paper as required.
The matter consists mainly of descriptions of after-death states,
and these are something like the scheme of the Theosophists, though
in slightly different terminology. There is Hades, which is a place
of quiet rest ; Illusion-land or Summerland, where the soul lives in
its memories, the plane of colour ; the plane of flame ; the plane of
light ; and the plane of timelessness. There is reincarnation, at
least for some souls, and some of these reincarnations occur on other
planets ; the soul can choose whether it will go up or down, and its
next incarnation will depend as to its conditions on the desires of
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1933
of each soul. Spiritual evolution is the purpose of creation, and the
end appears to be the attainment of oneness with God. This goes
somewhat beyond the aims and objects of our Society, but it is an
interesting scheme of existence, and there is much in it that is worth
pondering. It is to be noted that Miss Cummins had not studied
Theosophic literature, and that she had practically no knowledge
of the work of Myers.
As some indication that Miss Cummins's scripts often contain
definitely evidential matter, Miss Gibbes gives condensed accounts
of messages from people quite unknown to her or to her friend ;
facts appear to have been given which cannot be attributed to
normally acquired knowledge or to telepathy from the sitter.
As to the authenticity of the Myers communications, we cannot
feel sure, either one way or the other. But Sir Oliver Lodge tells
us, in his Foreword, that the scripts seem to him a genuine attempt
to describe the conditions of the after-life, and that the ideas are
in many ways characteristic of Myers. And Sir Oliver is probably
the best living judge, for he knew Myers intimately. Miss Gibbes
is a careful and critical investigator, and the book may be com-
mended to the attention of all students of psychical research
literature.
J A H
Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth im Lichte eines neuen Falles von Stigma-
tisation. Von Dr. med. Alfred Lechler. Elberfeld, Licht
unci Ze&en-Verlag.
One of the chief arguments used by Roman Catholics who believe
in the supernatural character of so-called stigmatisation is, as is well
known, the assertion that hitherto no one has been able to produce
stigmata by suggestion. From this standpoint the little book (53
pages) just published by Dr. Lechler deserves attention, and its
author may well have been a bahnbrecher.
Elisabeth K., Dr. Lechler's patient, entered his service in Febru-
ary 1929 (she was born in 1902). She had been suffering from various
ailments from which he cured her by hypnotism. He found her
eminently suggestible. On Good Friday 1932 she felt pains in her
hands and feet (she had been present at a Lichtbilderabend on the
sufferings and death of Christ). Dr. Lechler suggested to her in the
hypnotic state that she should have wounds where she felt pain ;
and this suggestion was carried out next morning. He then sug-
gested to her in the waking state that the wounds should become
deeper, also that Elisabeth should have tears of blood : again with
full success. Then, also in accordance with a suggestion made, the
tears of blood disappeared and the wounds on the hands and feet
closed.
These suggestions were repeated several times later on. They
May 1933 Reviews 77
sometimes failed, apparently when Elisabeth was unable to con-
centrate her thoughts adequately on the results expected. At other
times they were completely successful. Besides the stigmata on the
hands and feet and the " blood tears," Dr. Lechler was also able to
induce artificially the appearance on Elisabeth's forehead of traces
left as by a " crown of thorns." He also made her see visions of the
Passion, she viewing them with such an intensity that she thought
herself to be crucified (p. 17). Elisabeth did not " fast " d la Therese
Neumann, but Dr. Lechler mentions that on several occasions he
succeeded in increasing by suggestion his patient's weight. On other
occasions, however, suggestions not to lose weight, though Elisabeth
ate little or nothing, failed.
The hypothesis of fraud the author thinks completely excluded
because of Elisabeth's straightforward character in which he firmly
believes. Needless to say that by themselves such subjective im-
pressions have very little value. Still some of the observations bear-
ing on the stigmata appear to have been made under good conditions
of control (pp. 15, 16) ; whether these conditions made elaborate
preliminary manipulations of a fraudulent character impossible is.
of course, another question, as to which I do not feel competent to
judge.
From Elisabeth K. Dr. Lechler passes to Therese Neumann ; he
sees much analogy between both cases, as there undoubtedly is, and
attempts a " natural " explanation of the Konnersreuth happenings.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur metapsychiscJie Forschung, 1932.
January. Dr Simsa, Interesting Observations in Physical
Mediumship. [To be continued.]—F. W. Warrick, Supernormal
Photography in England. [Concluded.]—Dr Otto Seeling, Percep-
tion at a Distance. [Experiment with Fraiilein E. H. in 1921-1929 ;
no details.]—Prof. D. Richard Hoffmann, Spiritism and Science.
[Concluded.]
February. Prof. Ch. Schroder, On " Magnetic " Radiation.—Dr
E. Mattiesen, The Evidence for the Spirit Hypothesis. [A survey
of the different types of evidence.]—Prof. Ch. Schroder. Thought-
transference to and from Berlin-Vienna-Athens. [A preliminary
report, describing the method, etc. of transmission.]—Profs. Franz
Haslinger and Daniel Walter, Positivism. [A manifesto of positivism,
a word which, as here used, has nothing to do with the philosophy
of Comte : it refers to the attitude of those who are positive, i.e.
affirmative, about all the phenomena of psychical research.]
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1933
March. Prof. Ch. Schroder, Mediumistic Art, in particular that
of Painting. [To be continued.]
—
Id., On the Phenomena of
Hanussen. [To be continued.]—Zoe Grafin Wassilko-Serecki, The
Investigation of Frieda Weissl. [To be continued.]—Dr Simsa,
Interesting Observations in Physical Mediumship. [Concluded. A
superficial account of poltergeist phenomena at Branik, a suburb of
Prague. The phenomena were of an extremely violent kind, in-
cluding tlic killing of many ducks and chickens.] Mine Alexandra
David-Neel, Psychical Education in Tibet.—Clairvoyant Prophecies
relating to the Domestic Politics of 1932. [All very vague.]
April. Florizel von Reuter, How I obtained the Phenomena of
the " Direct Voice " in my own Circle. [To be continued.]—Grafin
Wassilko-Serecki, The Investigation of Frieda Weissl. [Concluded.
This poltergeist medium, born in 1906, first produced phenomena in
1929. She has been under more or less continuous observation for
various periods by members of the Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fur
Psychische Forschung and appears to have produced movements,
raps, etc. in good light and under satisfactory conditions. This is
decidedly a case for further investigation. As the Austrian Society
state that they are undertaking further inquiries I venture to sug-
gest that it would be better, instead of admitting large numbers of
people to the sittings, to form a small permanent group of experi-
enced and competent investigators.]—Prof. Ch. Schroder, Medium-
istic Art. [Concluded. On Heinrich Niisslein.]
—
Id., On the
Phenomena of Hanussen. [Concluded. Hanussen (since dead) was
a clairvoyant of doubtful reputation, which the present report does
nothing to improve. What is remarkable is the writer's use, in
testing the medium, of leading questions, and his defence of this
practice.]—Mme A. David-Neel, Psychical Education in Tibet.
—
Prof. Otto Rahn, A Prophecy. [The writer was given a message
from his deceased brother through a public medium, George Cutter,
telling him to wind his clock as it had stopped at 8 o'clock. On
returning home in the evening he found the clock still going, but
the following morning it stopped at 6 minutes to 8. Some particulars
as to the household would be desirable.]
May. [Prof. Ch. Schroder], Thought-transference to and from
Berlin-Vienna-Athens. [Continued.]—Dr A. Tanagra. Towards a
Theory of Prophecy. [An attempt to explain precognition without
recourse to determinism.]—Dr Karel Kuchynka, Clairvoyance into
the Future. [Together with some admirable theoretical remarks,
the writer gives an account of a good case of prevision. At a
regimental dinner, held before the departure of the regiment into
action, an officer received a sudden impression that two other
officers (whom he named) would be dead in six weeks. Exactly
42 days later these two officers were killed, the only ones in the
May 1933 Notes on Periodicals 79
battalion. An account by the officer concerned is printed, together
with a corroborative statement by a brother officer who was an
eye-witness. The only defect of the case is the interval of 16 years
between the events and the date of the documents.]—Prof. Ludwig
Jahn, The Need for an Institution to promote Psychical Research.
July. [No issue for June.] Florizel von Reuter, How I obtained
the Phenomena of the " Direct Voice " in my own Circle. [To be
concluded.]—Frau Magdalene Kriiger, Personally experienced
Phenomena of Materialisation. [To be concluded.]—Max Georg-
albert Bruckner, Marvels at Frau Marie Silbert's. [These are the
usual light-phenomena (still not explained), movements of objects,
engraving of rings, etc. No useful details are given.]—Prof. C.
Blacher, Observations of Apports. [To be concluded.]—Prof. Ch.
Schroder, The " Medium " Frau Baurat Winkler. [The death of
this interesting personality is announced. Known as the " masked
medium " she aroused a great deal of interest some years ago.]
August. Eduard Baumert, Fridolin Kordon-Veri Experiments in
the Institut fur metapsychische Forschung. [The medium shuffles
a pack of cards ; while he holds it in his hand the sitter picks a card
from the pack, but does not look at it ; the medium then names the
card. The whole is accompanied by references to the Kabala, the
books of Thoth, and the symbolism of cards, but the performance
itself is one of the most banal of card-tricks.]—Dr E. Mattiesen,
A Case of a Monition of Death by means of a Physical Phenomenon.
[A heavy wardrobe fell on its face 14 hours before the death of a
daughter of the house, who was in hospital. Dr Mattiesen found
one of the feet of the wardrobe defective, but he does not regard
this as telling against the supernormal nature of the incident. ]-
Karl Rothy, A Notable Budapest Clairvoyante. [Uncorroborated
anecdotes about Cornelia Torok.]—Ch. Schroder, The Spirit-
conjuration on the Brocken. [Some sensible remarks on this
lamentable farce.]—Karl Rothy, On the Jubilee of the S.P.R.
November. [No issue for September and October.] Dr Karl
Bruno, Personal Experiences in the Field of the Supersensuous
during the years 1928-1931. [These reminiscences actually go back
to 1885. The more recent phenomena consists largely of constant
downfalls of showers of ice-cold water on the author—when asleep
in bed for instance.]—Prof. Johannes Kasnacich, The mystery of
Psychometry, with an Attempt at an Explanatory Hypothesis. [To
be concluded.]—Dr E. Mattiesen, The Cross-correspondence Pro-
blem : Conclusion. [Dr Mattiesen here begins the conclusion of his
prolonged discussion of the S.P.R. cross-correspondences by setting
out the " Seven " case.]—Prof. C. Blacher, Observations of Apports.
—F. von Reuter, How I obtained the Phenomena of the " Direct
Voice " in my own Circle. [Concluded.]
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1933
November. [Second issue for this month.] Dr E. Mattiesen,
Prophecy or Psychobolia ? [A discussion on Dr Tanagra's theory.].
—[Ch. Schroder], Thought-transmission and Thought-reception
between Berlin-Vienna-Athens. [It is claimed that successes were
obtained, but the diagrams are not reproduced.]—A " Communica-
tion " in the Handwriting of a Dead Person from the Phenomena of
Fru Ingeborg. [A case extracted from Judge Dahl's We are Here.]
—Dr Gustav Zeller, Parapsychology a new Branch of Knowledge ?
December. Prof. J. Kasnacich, The Mystery of Psychometry, with
an Attempt at an Explanatory Hypothesis. [Concluded. The
author's highly hypothetical suggestions are further vitiated by
being derived from facts which could hardly bear critical examina-
tion.]—Dr E. Mattiesen, The Cross-correspondence Problem : Con-
clusion. [Concluded. The writer concludes, after a very prolonged
examination of the evidence, that although it is not possible
definitely to exclude the possibility of the subconsciousness of a
living person as the source of the phenomena, the spirit-hypothesis
is by far the more probable.]—Frau M. Kriiger, Personally experi-
enced Materialisation Phenomena. [Reminiscences of little interest.]
—Dr K. Bruno, Personal Experiences in the Field of the Super-
sensuous during the years 1928-1931. [To be continued.]
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
SITTINGS WITH RUDI SCHNEIDER.
It is hoped to publish in a part of Proceedings to be issued shortly
a paper by Lord Charles Hope on some sittings held with this medium
last autumn. This paper will include some comments by Lord
Charles Hope on Mr Harry Price's recent charges against Rudi
Schneider.
No. 496.—Vol. XXVIII June 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 June 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
THE THOMAS CASE (PROXY SITTINGS
WITH MRS LEONARD)
By Mrs LYDIA W. ALLISON
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be servedfrom 4.4$ p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Junk 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
(Elected 29 March 1933).
Librarian, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Mortimer, Mrs Stanley, c/o Messrs Morgan et Cie, 14 Place Vendome,
Paris, France.
Morton, Dr Eva, 24 Park Crescent, London, W. 1.
(Elected 26 April 1933).
Fraser-Harris, Mrs F. D., 3 Grove Park Lodge, London, W. 4.
Hynes, Miss Gladys, 41 Haverstock Hill, London, N.W. 3.
Kingston, Leonard J., 22 Spencer Park, London, S.W. 18.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 305th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1., on Wednesday, 29 March 1933, at 3.45 p.m., the
President in the Chair. There were also present : Lord Charles
Hope, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr G. W. Lambert, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Miss Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting were taken as read
and signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
On the proposal of Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., seconded by Mr
S. G. Soal, the Council filled the vacant place among their elected
members caused by the resignation of Mr L. S. Fletcher by appoint-
ing to it the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., hitherto a co-opted
member.
The following were co-opted as members of Council for the year
1933-1934 : Dr C. D. Broad, Dr William Brown, Mr W. Whately
Carington, Mr J. Arthur Hill, Lord Charles Hope, Professor Julian
Huxley, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and
Miss Nea Walker.
The 306th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1., on Wednesday, 26 April 1933, at 3.45 p.m., Mr
W. R. Bousfield, K.C., in the Chair. There were also present
:
Lord Charles Hope, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Miss Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The monthly Accounts for March 1933 were presented and taken
as read.
June 1933 Private Meeting 83
PKIVATE MEETING.
Difficulties of Investigation.
The 122nd Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
29 March 1933, at 5.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart, (later
Mr G. W. Lambert) in the Chair.
Mrs W. H. Salter read a paper on " Some Unprinted Cases
illustrating Difficulties of Investigation ". Mrs Salter described
a number of cases investigated by the Society's officials in recent
years, explaining in each case the various reasons why they had
been found unsuitable for printing.
A discussion then followed in which Mr G. W. Lambert, Mr
Hettinger, Dr Dingwall, Mr Findlater, the Kev. C. Drayton
Thomas, Lady Dewar and Miss Fleming took part.
NOTICE.
Further Gramophone Records.
In the Journal for January 1933 (xxviii. 2-3) it was announced that
the Society had caused gramophone records of a sitting with Mrs
Leonard to be made. These records permanently preserve for
leisured study adequate specimens of the Feda Control, including
examples of the so-called direct voice, and the whole of a feminin 3
Personal Control, that of " Dora " (Mrs Irving). These records
were offered for sale to Members and Associates of the Society and
a considerable number has been bought.
An addition to this series of records has now been made, with
the generous co-operation of the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas. The
new record gives an excellent rendering of part of a male Personal
Control, that of " Mr John " (the Rev. John Thomas). It is of
considerable interest when compared with the " Dora " records.
Another new record of a different kind has been made by Lord
Charles Hope and kindly put by him at the disposal of the Society.
This records typical specimens of the breathing of Rudi Schneider
when in trance. It is well known that this breathing, at an average
rate of 200 per minute, forms one of the most unusual aspects of
this medium's trance and one of which no adequate explanation
has yet been found.
Both these new records are on sale to Members and Associates
at 5s. each, a price which is only a little above the actual cost of
the records to the Society (quite apart from the cost of the original
recording)
.
Application for records should be made to the Secretary, the
Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1, not later than 31 July 1933. A few copies of the
original ten records are still available.
8-4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1933
NOTE ON AN ATTEMPT TO LOCATE IN SPACE THE
ALLEGED DIRECT VOICE OBSERVED IN SITTINGS
WITH MRS LEONARD.
As the result obtained was not a positive one this note is kept as
brief as possible and is restricted to essentials.
The method employed was an adaptation of the well-known
double-tube method. It was suggested by Dr Irons, through the
intermediary of Mr Soal. Two pairs of microphones, as shown on
the following diagram, were used. Each pair of microphones was
connected with a pair of ear-phones in a distant room, each micro-
phone being connected by a different channel with its appropriate
ear-phone. The sensitiveness, etc., of the microphones was care-
fully balanced, slight inequalities in the ear-phones being com-
pensated by appropriate balancing of the microphones.1
Mr Heard and Mr Besterman acted as observers ;
by careful
preliminary calibration on two occasions, once immediately before
the sittings, they succeeded in distinguishing displacements in
space from the normal position, i.e. that of the medium, of some-
thing less than six inches in any horizontal direction. It was found,
however, that this method would be unsuitable for the observation
of sounds liable to be produced from different and alternating
sources, owing to the serious lag in localising such sounds. Again,
it was found that fatigue supervened fairly rapidly and produced
serious errors.
The sitting was held on 16 January 1933, with the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas as sitter, gramophone records being taken simul-
taneously. The notes made by the two observers exactly agreed.
A supposed direct voice was heard four times, as follows (approxi-
mately corrected times) :
a.m.
11.211 « peter
"
11.34. " sure to be
"
11.341. "verified"
11.35. "considerable"
On none of these occasions was the voice found to be displaced
in space, i.e. to emanate from a source in space other than the posi-
tion occupied by the medium.
1
This work was carried out by the Gramophone Co.'s technical recording
staff, to whose efficient and willing help we are much indebted.
June 1933 Note on Attempt to Locate Alleged Direct Voice 85
Gramoplione Co.'s studio, Abbey Road, N.W. 8.
o o
Scale
:
r=i ft.
O = microphones.
X = centre of medium's position.
Note : two separate microphones, placed between the pairs shown above, were
nsed for the gramophone recording.
THEODORE BESTERMAN.
GERALD HEARD.
CASE.
L. 1298. A Dream of an Explosion.
We have received the following case from the Baroness de Kakucs,
a Member of the Society :
"During the night of the llth-12th 1
February I had a most
vivid dream. I thought I was standing on the verandah of a
foreign type of house, looking over a hilly and wooded country.
A heavy black cloud was hanging over everything, and the sky and
the look of the atmosphere frightened me. I thought the end of
the world was coming. I saw a terrible flash of light, and heard
a loud explosion ; the ground rocked, and thinking the house was
going to fall in I rushed out, calling to the other people in it to get
clear. I shouted so loud that I woke myself up, and thought that
there must have been an earthquake. My bed seemed to rock
violently. I do not know what the time was. I told my sister-in-
law about it in the morning, before I had seen a newspaper, or
1
[In reply to an inquiry Baroness de Kakucs explains (16 and 19. ii. 33)
that this is a clerical mistake for 10th- 11th, and as this letter is dated the
11th (received the 13th, the 12th being a Sunday) this is no doubt the case].
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June 1933;
heard of the Saar explosion ; and said :
'
I bet we shall hear
there has been an earthquake somewhere '.
I don't remember ever having had a dream of this description
before -
[Signed] G. H. S. Crofton."
"Major Crofton told me about his dream, on the morning of
Feb. 11th before he or anyone in the house had seen a newspaper.
We never get our papers here until about 11.30 a.m. and on this
particular morning they did not come until 12.45. I met the
boy at the gate with them. I remember that Major Crofton said
that it was a foreign type of house, and that he was sure we should
hear of an earthquake. He seemed much impressed with his
feeling of terror and panic. [Signed] Enid D. Kakucs."
In answer to a question Baroness de Kakucs states (19. ii. 33)
that the wireless in the house had been disconnected for six months
before the date in question. Explosions are not, of course, parti-
cularly infrequent, nor was the dream very specific, but as this
appears to have been the first time that Major Crofton dreamed of
an explosion, the incident is worth recording. The explosion in
the Saar occurred at 6 p.m. on 10 February 1933, according to
the reports in The Times.
CORRESPONDENCE.
On the Possibility op Proving Survival.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have studied with much interest the extremely interesting
article contributed by Dr J. B. Rhine to the March number of the
Journal, wherein he discusses certain types of evidence for survival
in the light of my paper published in Proceedings, xl. He suggests
that " peculiar motivation is more indentificative of the agency
involved than are data from the past life of the individual con-
cerned, facts describing his personality or physical manifestations
claimed to be due to his efforts ". I agree. On page 115 of the
paper in question I said, referring to the reproduction of psycho-
logical characteristics, which, of course, include " peculiar motiva-
tion ", that " it was here that we might hope to find the most con-
vincing . . . evidence for survival," and again on page 117, " Habitual
forms of thought and association of ideas are one of the most in-
dividual characteristics of any person and it seems to me that if a
large number of instances of reproductions of this nature . . . could
be collected, a fairly strong presumptive case for survival might
be established ". I think that " peculiar motivation " may fairly be
included under " habitual forms of thought and association of ideas ".
June 1933 Correspondence 87
Further, Dr Rhine claims no more than that cases of the type
which he suggests " offer better assurance of survival " ; he does
not claim that alternative explanations are completely excluded.
He would admit, I take it, that the necessity of verification, implying
as it does the existence of knowledge in the possession of some
living person, or of some other form of record, must provide a
theoretically possible alternative in all conceivable cases.
So far, therefore, it seems that Dr Rhine and myself are in sub-
stantial agreement. But when we come to cases, it is possible that
in spite of our agreement on general principles, our estimates of the
plausibility of the survival hypothesis might show very large
divergence. The main thesis which I endeavour to establish in my
paper is that conviction of the truth or otherwise of the survival
hypothesis must always be a matter of individual idiosyncracy. It
is a function of two independent variables, both of which rest on
individual opinion. The first is the antecedent acceptability of
survival and this is determined to a large extent by factors entirely
outside the province of psychical research. On it will depend
whether the evidence from any particular case will find a relatively
open road or encounter grave obstacles in its path. It seems
reasonable that I should demand a higher degree of probability in
the evidence before accepting an hypothesis which is antecedently
inacceptable than one towards which I am already favourably dis-
posed. Whether reasonable or not, the fact remains that we all do
make this demand.
The second variable is the estimate of probability of the survival
hypothesis in any particular case against that of the alternatives.
As regards the first I have no means of comparing Dr Rhine's posi-
tion with my own, but in the matter of the relative probabilities
of the evidence for survival in his hypothetical cases I think that
there might, very likely, be considerable differences between us.
For example, take the first case, that of the woman whose deceased
husband purports to send a message telling her to consult a doctor.
I cannot agree that the " motivation " is so clearly that of the
husband. The woman herself might have just as powerful a motive,
or her children, her relatives or friends. It is not unknown for a
husband to be comparatively callous concerning the health of his
wife.
Moreover, though the woman ex hypothesi does not consciously
know of her impending trouble, we have so much evidence of the
wider knowledge of the state of the subject's organism possessed
by the sublimiiial, that it is not unreasonable to suppose that she
might have been subconsciously aware of the tumour ; in fact, I
should be inclined to think that she would be the most likely person
to possess that knowledge.
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1933
On the other side, of course, the intrusion into an alien sitting
and the impersonation of the husband by the alleged communicator,
have to be explained. This, undoubtedly, presents difficulty, but
I think might be overcome by a little ingenuity.
I do not desire to overdo my self-imposed role of advocatus
Diaboli. I admit that such a case would be a good one. What I
want to make clear is the number of points on which differences of
opinion, more or less serious, could arise between two impartial
and unprejudiced persons whereby the degree of plausibility of the
survival hypothesis would be materially affected. And this was
the main purpose of my paper. Apodeictic proof is impossible, con-
viction or plausibility is subjective.
I do not think it necessary to trespass further on your space by
discussing in detail the other suppositious cases put forward by
Dr Rhine. They each have their peculiar features of strength and
each has its own inherent weaknesses, hence the same general
principles of criticism would apply to all. I would, however, beg
permission to put forward a suggestion which is, I think, relevant to
this matter.
In my experience, so far as it goes, it is very unusual for an
ostensible communicator to get a clear, coherent message through
the medium at his first appearance. As a rule the earlier communi-
cations are confused, fumbling and scrappy. It is only after con-
siderable experience that clear and definite information is trans-
mitted.
When a novelist is writing a book he gradually builds up the
characters in his mind until they become almost independent
entities whose reactions in any situation will be consistent with
the psychological characteristics with which he has endowed them ;
at least that is the ideal towards which he should strive. As a case
in point, we have been told how Mrs Gamp used to speak to Dickens
at all sort of odd moments. I imagine that a similar process takes
place in the mind of a biographer, only in such case the material
from which the character is built up is derived from historical
sources.
I suggest that in the case of mediumistic communication some-
thing of a very like nature occurs. In the mind either of the medium
or the sitter a character is gradually built up and behaves in a
manner analogous to that in which the characters of the novelist
or biographer behave. The greater the knowledge possessed by the
sitter, derived either from his own memory or by telepathy from
another source, the nearer will the behaviour of this character
approximate to good biography. Now if a good biographical char-
acter of a deceased person be thus built up, we may reasonably
expect it to exhibit the motivation as well as the other types of
June 1933 Correspondence 89
habitual forms of thought and association of ideas peculiar to the
original.
In the matter of the possibility of communication from the sur-
viving consciousness of a deceased person, I preserve an open mind,
I neither deny nor affirm, though perhaps I lean a little towards
acceptance, but I think that there are many very serious difficulties
in the way of regarding the ostensible communicator as being the
survivor actually there, speaking either to the Control or directly
through the Medium.
I suggest, however, that where the " biographical character
"
which has been built up is a true and sympathetic portrait, telepathy
from the survivor (if such exist) will be much facilitated owing to
the psychological parallelism existing between the two. It seems
not unreasonable to suppose that when there is already in existence
a familiar psychological structure the passage of telepathic messages
will be easier and distortion less liable to occur. I put forward this
suggestion in the rough as it seems to me that some of the difficulties
experienced in the interpretation and explanation of mediumistic
phenomena may be resolved thereby, and in the hope that it may
be subjected to such criticism as may effectively destroy it, if
valueless or refine and amplify it if valuable.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
REVIEW.
Ernest Bozzano, Polyglot Mediumship (Xenoglossy). Translated
by Isabel Emerson. 8vo, pp. 191. London : Rider and Co.,
1932. Price 5s. net.
The term '
Xenoglossy " was apparently first used by Prof.
Richet to denote the phenomenon of speaking with tongues, and
Signor E. Bozzano defines it as follows on page 57 of this book :
" By phenomena of xenoglossy we mean the cases in which the
medium not only speaks and writes in languages unknown to him,
but does so by making original observations, or conversing with
those present, thus proving that the phrases spoken were created
for the occasion." This book is a collection of thirty-five cases
in which Signor Bozzano asserts that the phenomenon was exhi-
bited, and which he divides into four categories, namely cases
obtained by speaking automatism and clairaudient mediumship,
by automatic writing, by the direct voice, and by direct writing.
Incidentally, rather a curious position would appear to arise from
the inclusion of the last two categories, as it is usually claimed by
believers in these two forms of mediumship that the speaking or
writing is certainly not done by the medium, in which case of course
Signor Bozzano's definition would not apply.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1933
The author considers that through this phenomenon of speaking
with tongues, the spirit-hypothesis is proved, and discusses and
dismisses various alternatives, including cryptomnesia, telepathic
clairvoyance, telesthesia (reading at a distance in closed books), and
ancestral memory.
The cases, which vary greatly in evidential value, are taken from
many different books and periodicals, ranging from the Proceedings
of this Society to books by Mr Dennis Bradley and Mr Florizel Von
Reuter. They date from as far back as 1857 to 1931
.
The case from our Proceedings is that from volume xvii, in which
a few words of Dutch were spoken in Dr van Eeden's sitting with
Mrs Thompson. This of course is included in the first category,
together with (among others) the case of Laura Edmonds (taken at
second-hand from Prof. Richet's Traite de Metapsychique) and that
of Ninfa Filiberto, an account of which appeared in this Journal in
December 1900. Ninfa Filiberto was said to speak fluent English
during phases of somnambulism, and to have conversed at length
in that language (though having no normal knowledge of it), with
two Englishmen. Signor Bozzano concludes his summary of this
case by stating that " the English critic of the '
Journal of the
S.P.R.' . . . considers that the fact of the somnambulist who spoke
English fluently, is not sufficiently conclusive for lack of particulars,
.
seeing that her English dialogues were not written down ",—with
which criticism I heartily agree.
An interesting case in the second category (" writing auto-
matism ") is that of Mrs Laura Finch, who wrote in Prof. Richet's
presence about twenty lines of Greek, the sentences she wrote
having afterwards been found to exist in print in various works..
Nevertheless the Greek phrases often corresponded to actual
circumstances and were used for giving appropriate replies to
Prof. Richet's questions.
Case fourteen, taken from The Two Worlds of 19 June 1931,
concerns the medium Mrs Estelle Roberts, and seems to me doubt-
ful, to say the least, but is worthy of note as being the only example
given of an English medium at present practising in London. The
sitting, which was for the direct voice, took place on 30 January
1931, in total darkness with eight sitters, among whom were a
Dutch father and son. No control of the medium is mentioned,
but the extract from The Two Worlds states that "Red Cloud"
(Control) then announced that he had placed the right foot of the
medium on that of the sitter to the right, where it remained through-
out the sitting (p. 71). Among other voices which manifested was.
one speaking in a foreign tongue, which the father and son recognised
as being Dutch. After finding some difficulty in speaking, the
Communicator said he would write a message on the blackboard
June 1933 Review Itl
(outside the circle), which was evidently at hand for use, and after
the close of the sitting a message was found there. Now Signor
Bozzano places this case in the second category (writing auto-
matism), thus implying that the medium wrote it herself automati-
cally. But what was she doing outside the circle, and how, if her
right foot was on that of the sitter to her right all the time, did she
get there ?
The last two categories, direct voice and direct writing, might
surely have been omitted altogether, as the evidence for the latter
(as a phenomenon in itself) is practically non-existent, and as
examples of " xenoglossy " in the former are nearly all taken from
the mediumship of George Valiantine, whose entire phenomena
must be held suspect.
In his conclusion the author considers the various hypotheses
mentioned above and decides that the spirit-hypothesis is the only
one that fits the facts. There are, however, two hypotheses that
Signor Bozzano scarcely seems to have taken into account at all,
those of fraud on the part of the medium and suggestibility on the
part of the sitters. These two, however unattractive they are,
have surely as much right to be considered as the others.
Mrs Salter put much of the difficulty of estimating the evidence
for xenoglossy in a nutshell when she said in her paper " The
History of George Valiantine " (Proc. S.P.R., xl), "... It is very
much easier to discover that a man does not know a language
when he is pretending that he does, than to discover that he does
know it, when he is pretending that he does not."
S. R. W. Wilson.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The British Journal of Medical Psychology, vol. xii, Part iv.
J. H. Kenneth, A Psycho-Physiological Interpretation of the
" Aura ". [The writer states that the theory of negative after-
images is inadequate, and adds to it the suggestion that the seeino-
of auras may also be due to smell-odour synaesthesia, the description
of the one in terms of the other].
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
April 1933.
Dr Abraham Colles, A Striking " Psychometric " Experiment.
[This case dates from 1904 and was published in 1909 in a magazine],
—H. A. V. Green, A Short Discussion of Evidence in relation to
Psychic Phenomena.—Stanley De Brath, The Present Position of
Psychical Research. [Attempts to harmonise psychical research
and religion]. —Dr Nandor Fodor, Two Bodies for one Soul. [To be
continued]. Th. B.
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June u>33
Boston Society for Psychic Research, Bulletin XIX, January 1933.
This number contains, I think, less original matter than we are
accustomed to find in the Boston Bulletins, and the choice of topics
for discussion in its articles is no doubt largely suggested by recent
unfortunate events that have occurred in the U.S.A. in connection
with psychical research.
The number begins with a useful consideration of methods of
controversy, legitimate and illegitimate, and the mischief done to
true search for truth by the latter. This discussion is supported
further on in the Bulletin (p. 45) by Illustrations of Illegitimate
Types of Controversy, mainly though not entirely quotations
selected from one book. The principal article of the Bulletin is the
second, entitled " Impossible and Supernormal ". This begins with
an amusing account of replies to an inquiry into opinions on the
possibility under given conditions of an apparently impossible, but
actually feasible and easy mechanical performance without trickery.
Dr Prince follows this illustration of misplaced incredulity with
accounts given in more or less detail of forty cases in which the
performances of various mediums, having been described by in-
vestigators as impossible by normal means (or similar words) were
subsequently shown to be actually done by trickery. Many other
instances could be given of similar credulity and Dr Prince's dis-
cussion of the subject will be found interesting.
Some notes on articles published elsewhere in relation to the pre-
ceding Bulletin XVIII will be found on pp. 40-5, and the present
Bulletin ends with a reply by Lord Charles Hope to certain criti-
cisms in Bulletin XVIII on Mr Harry Price's experiments with
Rudi Schneider ; and with a short report by Mrs Hemenway of
what seems to have been a striking sitting with Mrs Piper some
sixteen years ago.
E. M. S.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 1933.
January. Le Livre des Revenants. [Part XIII]. [Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing, Development of Occultism into Parapsychology.
[Continued].—David Gow, " Hark from the Tomb ". —A Cambridge
Ghost-Story. [The excellent story, A College Mystery, is here
accepted as a " well authenticated record " of a haunting].
February. Le Livre des Revenants. [Part XIV].—May C.
Walker, A Seance with Pasquale Erto. [It is impossible to share
Miss Walker's high estimate of this sitting. Erto was handcuffed
and certain phenomena took place. In the meanwhile, however,
occurred an incident which is thus described by Miss Walker,
without comment :
" Later on, Erto brought his hands to the table
June 1933 Notes on Periodicals 93
for the sealing [of the handcuffs] to be re-done, as it had come off"].
—Samuel E. Anderson, Psyche the Immortal.
March. Arthur Goadby, Conversing Animals. [Part III, the
previous part having appeared in January 1932]. —Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing, The Development of Occultism into Parapsycho-
logy in Germany. [Part V].
April. Stewart Edward White, Attitudes in Psychic Research.
[An address delivered by Mr White as Research Officer of the San
Francisco Section of the American S.P.R., whose members he
advises to read the literature of the subject].—Le Livre des Reve-
nants. [Part XV].
May. Le Livre des Revenants. [Part XVI]. —[F. B. Bond], The
Record of a Strange Automatic Script. [By John Alleyne].—
Some Sayings by " Patience Worth."—[The publication of a reply
to Mr Dudley's report on the Margery finger-prints is announced for
this month].
Revue Metapsychique, 1933.
January-February. Dr E. Osty, Spontaneous Telepathy and Ex-
perimental Thought-Transference. [Concluded. This essay will be
reviewed separately]. —Dr Borrey, The Dowser's Pendulum and
Disease. [A note on a successful experiment into medical diagnosis
by dowsing].—Dr E. Osty, Divination amongst the so-called primi-
tive Peoples. [Extracts from recent works bearing on this subject].
March-April. E. Pascal, A Visit to Ezquioga. [A full and inter-
esting description of the movement resulting from a vision of the
Virgin Mary experienced by two Basque children in 1931]. —Dr
Borrey, The Dowsers' Pendulum and Disease. [Further experiments
in medical diagnosis by dowsing].—Dr E. Osty, The Strange Be-
haviour of Mr Harry Price. [A brilliant and strictly behaviouristic
analysis of Mr Price].
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, 1933.
February. Dr Jan Simsa, Experiments with the Prague physical
Medium " Wolf ". [To be continued].—Dr F. Schwab, Personal and
Extraneous Matters in the Statements of Mediums. [To be con-
tinued].—Dr Fritz Quade, Experiments for the Direct Voice. [The
writer testifies to the genuineness of the phenomena obtained in the
private circle of Mrs Van Reuter and her son]. —Theodor A. Dolejs,
On the Threshold of Eternity. [An uncorroborated account of a
series of spirit visitations experienced by the writer]. —Dr Franz
Freudenberg, Remarkable Light and kindred Phenomena. [These
uncorroborated incidents go back 35-50 years and more].
March. Dr Jan Simsa, Experiments with the Prague physical
Medium "Wolf". [Continued].—Dr F. Schwab, Personal and
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1933
Extraneous Matters in the Statesments of Mediums. [Concluded.
The writer's object is to survey mediumistic utterances with a view
to distinguishing in them those elements that may be regarded as
beyond the reach of the medium. This important undertaking is
spoiled, unfortunately, by the writer's uncritical attitude to his
sources. Thus we find Dr Schwab (p. 105) saying that Mme Blavat-
sky wrote The Secret Doctrine without knowledge of its subject-
matter ; in the same sentence he adds that the book in question
•contains " innumerable references, with page-numbers, to the
literary sources "]. —Dr A. Ludwig, The Sinister House. [An
anonymous, thirty years old, uncorroborated story of a haunted
house].—C. Blacher, Microphysics, Animism, Spiritualism and
Gnosis. [A preliminary note].—Prof. V. Mikuska, Maurice Maeter-
linck as Psychical Researcher and Philosopher. [An excellent
survey of the eminent writer's works on psychical subjects, in
which due acknowledgment is made of his debt to the S.P.R.].
Ajoril. Dr E. and M. Osty, The Unknown Powers of Mind over
Matter. [The first instalment of an abridged translation by Dr
Gerda Walther].—Dr J. Simsa, Experiments with the Prague
physical Medium "Wolf". [Continued].—Dr Carl Vogl, Light-
Phenomena at Prague-Branik. [On certain of Wolf's phenomena].
—Baron Dr A. von Winterstein, Freud's Attitude to Psychical
Research. [A critical account.]
May. E. and M. Osty, The unknown Powers of Mind over
Matter. [Continued].—Karl Halenke, Clairvoyance into the Past.
[Experiments with Helma Poesl-Eichheim. She was handed manu-
scripts of the 16th and 17th centuries and gave correct information
about their writers].—Dr A. Wendler, On " Stablehaunts ". [The
writer appears to have taken seriously what are clearly fragments
of folklore].—Josef Sell, An Attempt to explain Haunts by means of
Psychophysical Interaction. [An elaborate hypothesis, which
might be valuable if the facts on which it is based were authentic],
—Dr W. Carius, Facts and Reflections relating to the theme " Loca
infesta ". [A collection of uncorroborated cases].
Der Querschnitt, December 1932.
[This number is devoted entirely to the " supersensuous "].
Henri Bergson, The Justification and Value of Psychological In-
vestigation. [An extract from Prof. Bergson's Les deux sources]. —
C. G. Jung, Reality and Super-Reality.—Dr Wolfgang von Weisl,
Cross-section of an Occult Period. [A fervid defence of Frau Silbert
and other mediums].—Prof. T. K. Oesterreich, The Attitude of con-
temporary Science to Spiritualism. [A general survey of psychical
research]. —Dr Friedrich Schwab, Teleplasm, a mysterious Sub-
stance. [A slight account, by an uncritical believer]. —Graf C. von
June 1933 Xotes on Periodicals 95
Klinckowstroem, Conjurers and Mediums. [Various notable cases
of fraud are described with gusto]. —Rudolf Grossmann, Visits in
the Fourth Dimension. [Scrappy account of various anonymous
Mediums].—Dr K. R. von Roques, The great Problem of the
Dowsing-rod. [Deals chiefly with the alleged connection between
disease and underground water].—Curt Corrinth, The World War
in Prophecy.
Zeitschrift fur metapsychiche Forschung, 1933.
February. [No issue for January]. Prof. J. Kasnacich. Is
Mediumship Transmissible ? [The question is whether a medium
can transmit his faculties to one who is not a medium. The writer
thinks he can, on the basis of experiences with Frau Silbert]. —M.
Gontard-Schuck, A Veridical Communication. [Inadequate details
are given].—The Haunt at D. [Non-evidential].
April. [No issue for March]. Prof. Pietro Ubaldi, Personally
observed Mediumship. [Brief introspective notes by an educated
observer who has visual and auditory experiences. A more detailed
analysis would be welcome].—Dr Karl Bruno, Personal Experiences
in the Field of the Supersensuous. [To be continued].
[This periodical has now been converted into a popular magazine
under the title of Dein Ich].
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, 1933.
March. Dr P. A. Dietz, On the Terminology of Psychical Re-
search. [The writer criticises the existing terminologies and proposes
yet another new set of words, of which intrasomatic and extraso-
matic parapragmasy are the most interesting]. —Prof. A. H. de
Hartog, Once more : Neo-vitalism, etc. —W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Is
Mediumship an Example of Atavism ? [A review of the published
opinions on this subject]. —Dr P. A. Dietz, On Mediumistic Fraud.
[Continued. A survey of recent cases in Holland.]
April. Dr C. G. N. Noe, Parapsychological Investigation of a
Medical Kind. [Having observed during the course of hypnotic
treatment of pregnant women that they possessed clairvoyant (?)
powers, the writer caused them to attempt medical self-diagnosis,
with what appears to be considerable success]. —Dr P. A. Dietz, On
Subconscious Preferences. [Experiments with cyphers, playing-
cards, colours, and geometrical figures. The usual results were
obtained].—W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Animal Psychology and Psychical
Research. [A thorough survey of the literature].
La Ricerca Psichica, 1933.
January. Remo Fedi, The Problem of Personal Immortality.
—
Leone Vivante, Procognitive Phenomena. [To be continued. This
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1933
promises to be a valuable historical survey of the evidence for
precognitions and of the theories put forward to explain them.
This first instalment is largely bibliographical, though somewhat un-
systematically so]. —E. Bozzano, Polyglot Mediumship. [To be
continued].
February. Kemo Fedi, The Religio-Theistic Aspect of Spiritual-
ism.—Leone Vivante, Precognitive Phenomena. [To be continued].
—E. Bozzano, Polyglot Mediumship. [Concluded].
March. Emilio Servadio, The Parapsychologie of Hans Driesch.
[The writer cordially approves of Prof. Driesch's views—so long as
they harmonise with his own].—Leone Vivante, Precognitive Pheno-
mena. [This valuable survey of the literature is now concluded].—
•
Cesare Vesme, A brief Critical Consideration of the Medium Erto's
Sitting in Paris. [The writer considers that fraud was not proved
in Dr Geley's report (1924) ].
April. E. Bozzano, Mrs Ingeborg Dahl. [A summary of Judge
Dahl's We are Here].—G. Pioli, Prophecy and Psychical Research
in Israel.—Roberto Pavese, Suggestion and its Mechanism.—E.
Servadio, Recent Sittings with Rudi Schneider.
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 497.—Vol. XXVIII July 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE CONWAY HALL,
RED LION SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 2j September 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
The Hon. MRS ALFRED LYTTELTON, C.B.E.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be adtnitted on signing their
names at the door. Visitors will be admitted on production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate ; these cards zvill be
circulated in September.
G
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Saturday, 29 July,
until Monday, 11 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the staff during this time. Members may borrow not more than six
volumes from the Library before the Rooms close. The next number
of the " Journal " will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS.
Arnold-Foster, Mrs H. C, Orchards, Dover Park Drive, London,
S.W. 15.
Glardon, Rev. Roger, 17 Avenue Druey, Lausanne, Switzerland.
Rugg, Miss E. M., Baptist Mission House, Dinajpur, N. Bengal,
India.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
The 307th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 31 May 1933, at 4 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present: Mr W. R. Bous-
field, K.C., Professor E. R. Dodds, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Jephson,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr C W. Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr
S. Gr. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Miss Nea Walker ;
also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss
Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
It was proposed and carried unanimously : That the Council
rescind the Resolution dated 28 January 1920, whereby the Council
decided to suspend the election of new Associates until further
notice, and entertain applications to become Associates of the Society
from Students of Universities, or other persons who have attained
18 years of age, who shall, when applying, undertake that on attaining
the age of twenty-five years they will, if still Associates of the Society,
either apply for full membership of the Society or resign their
position as Associates. It was agreed that this class of Associates
should be called Student Associates.
It was further resolved to suspend until further notice, the
election as Associates of all persons not complying with the above
condition.
July 1933 Private Meeting 99
PRIVATE MEETING.
Psychical Research and the Written Word.
The 123rd Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
26 April 1933, at 5.30 p.m., Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair.
Mr Stephen Chant read a paper on " Psychical Research and the
Written Word ", which is printed below, considerably abridged.
Probably a large proportion of my listeners have at one time or
another enjoyed some practical experience of psychical research and
it is certain that some at least have had very considerable experience
of it. Now I have to my credit so very little that it is not worthy of
mention ; so little that I am not qualified to discuss psychical re-
search at all, except as a literature : and this I have to do before an
audience who have arrived here as it were straight from the labora-
tory. I can only hope that a merely bookish view is not entirely
without interest.
For every research worker the time comes when, in making a
written report of his labours, he goes one step further than the actual
facts ; when he reaches the implications of those facts ; collates
them or edits them ; when he betrays his own distinctive preconcep-
tions, his unwitting beliefs or—at the worst—his inadvertent question-
begging ; when he tries to elucidate his material or to illustrate by
means of it some favoured philosophic system ; then is the time when
the mere reader, if he bends his mind to it, may come into his own.
I am not concerned with the whole body of the literature of
psychical research. Let me limit myself to the more sober and
respectable part of the output on psychical research proper. I am
immediately struck by a difference between the more recent matter
and all that went before it. This difference is a little hard to put
into words which will not bear an unfavourable implication. This is,
however, due to the almost universal presumptions which give to
some neutral term a sound either derogatory or the reverse and
deprive one, if one is attacking these presumptions themselves, of
the very words with which one needs to do it. Put it, if the epithets
will not be misunderstood, that the work of a generation ago when
compared with the work of to-day has a most disarming appearance
of simple-mindedness ; or say that it was then superficially more
amateurish and is now superficially more scientific, and you describe
a change which in a small way I cannot help but deplore. For such
simplicity, as it appears at first glance, does very commonly hide
a great deal more preliminary hard thinking than has preceded the
writing's of official psychologists.
There is no novelty in remarking that the whole history of science
displays two great tendencies : (1) the experimental, that is, the
tendency to record and to measure, and (2) the theoretical and
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
abstract. It is precisely my case that the more impressive pieces of
psychical research have always exemplified the first and are now
increasingly and regrettably showing signs of the second. The
delight in class names and abstract nouns is often excused on the
ground that they save circumlocution ; but they cannot be a sub-
stitute for thought. One cannot get more out of words than one puts
into them.
Every field of human inquiry seems to have lent itself, even if
somewhat stubbornly, to those processes of abstraction which, in
one of its aspects at least, is science. Till now there has always
apparently been some set of qualities chosen more or less to taste
which could be withdrawn from the complete wholes before us and
built into a skeleton or scheme, a kind of map of the objects of our
studies, bearing much the same relation to that object as a map
itself bears to the undulating living stretch of forest, tilth and pasture
which it represents. But in psychology we are no longer dealing
with the world without, but with the world within ; our problem is
no longer objective, it is subjective ; we are not now attacking
things we can touch, see, weigh, taste, and measure, and so in the
last resort we have to accept what the victims of our inquiries tell us
of their experiences and then argue as best we may about what we
have been told.
If a person becomes possessed of information in some fashion
unintelligible to me, why must I invent a something inside him
which did the trick and name that something " cryptaesthesia " ?
Must there be a god in the machine to make the wheels go round ?
How are we any nearer to understanding the unintelligible by form-
ing names for imaginary causes ? And why is the " secret " or
" hidden feeling " in Greek any less a confession of ignorance than
second-sight in English or clairvoyance in French ? For myself, I
would rest quite content with the older names, finding little to
grumble at in "ghosts", "phantoms", "second-sight", "clair-
voyance ", and the rest ; since they generally beg the question not
more—as has often been asserted—but less than many later coinages.
All that seems to me essential is that everyone should always re-
member that each name—however quaint-sounding a collection of
syllables—is merely a name for a set of events or happenings and
not the name of a separate something, a mysterious power which
can be advanced as the cause or explanation of these events. In the
classic example one must not suppose that glass can be seen through
because it is transparent.
It is pretty generally admitted, and I would be the first to concur,
that the greatest achievement due to this Society has been the
demonstration that telepathic phenomena of all kinds do occasion-
ally but veritably occur. This, in itself, is a tremendous advance on
July 1933 Private Meeting 101
the position two generations ago, and it is an advance we owe to
the earlier activities of the Society. Earlier members were, perhaps,
fortunate in that mediiuns of the first rank at that time seem to have
been predominantly mental and it is our misfortune that a difference
in those available to-day seem to be turning the attention of psy-
chical research workers all over the world towards physical pheno-
mena. These are matters which, so far as their purely physical
problems are concerned, one may safely prophesy will be settled ;
since not only the technique of 200 years of physical and chemical
experiment, but the ideational technique of science as a whole
provides methods of attack. But it seems regrettable that the
problem of mental phenomena—the two-fold problem, whether they
happen and how they happen—already half solved, should not
engage all the efforts of research until it is finally elucidated.
There has been no lack of fresh labours to consolidate the territory
already won, but we would, each of us, agree. I suppose, that all such
happenings remain as profoundly incomprehensible to-day as they
did twenty years ago. I hope it will have been observed that when,
just now, I referred to telepathy, I did so by means of the expression
" telepathic phenomena of all kinds ". I intended not merely to
cover by that phrase mediumistic communications ; for that these
are telepathic in the proper sense of the word as Myers defined it is
obvious. My intention was to avoid the implications which the
word telepathy so often has to-day. I do not wish to deny that
there are such things as telepathic phenomena, but when we have
recorded a number of such cases to my mind telepathy is no more
than the word with which we head our list. It is the chapter-head
to a chapter which contains accounts of a number of mysterious
happenings having sufficient points in common to allow of them
being grouped together ; it is the title of a collection ; and this is
what I mean when I say it is simply a summational term.
We are not, therefore, justified in using it for the name of a power
or faculty, at least until we have isolated and experimented with a
power able to produce the phenomena. Such a power has never
been isolated ;
indeed, many of the characteristics of the phenomena
make the existence of such a power improbable. We are not, while
this is the case, even justified in imagining that such a power may be
possessed by anyone. Yet, since we do so, we are saved the labour
of searching for a cause more consistent with the nature of our
material and so the second part of the problem, how these things
happen, remains very much where it has been for many years.
We know nothing of the causes of all kinds of telepathy ; not even
whether they be one or many. That the cause should be, as is often
assumed, some kind of faculty possessed by the persons to whom
these events occur seems to me very improbable to say the least.
g2
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
The statistical experiments lately undertaken by certain members
of this Society have demonstrated pretty conclusively that there is
no such faculty shared by all and sundry to any perceptible degree.
Now, we are all, from the bodily point of view, of the same genus ;
no one of us is the happy possessor of an organ not shared by the
rest, and it is surely not excessive to suppose that our minds have a
similar likeness. Differences of degree there certainly are—even
enormous differences of degree—but we should not expect a flat
difference of kind whereby one could produce examples of telepathy,
and another no such thing even to the smallest extent.
It is extraordinary that such things should come to a few of us for
a short time and, after we have briefly experimented, should fade
away not to return ; that to quite a number of others they should
come but once in a lifetime ; that to the vast majority they should
come not at all ; and that—as we know when through a medium we
" consult the dead upon the things that were ", they come to a very
very few as part of the everyday business of life. This does not
square with the notion of a faculty ; it does not even square very
well with the notion of a Cosmic Consciousness, or why such in-
constancy of access to its reservoirs ? It is almost as if telepathy
were an event that happened to people or due to something done to,
or for them, rather than due to something they themselves did. It is
almost as if you caught telepathy roughly as you catch a cold, and
also as if most of us were immunised from birth.
As I have said there cannot, for our present needs, be too much
hypothesis-making, and it seems to me that any person who has had
experiences leading them to form a new guess at the modus operandi
has a plain duty to give it what publicity he or she can.
A discussion followed, in which Miss Reutiner, Dr E. J. Ding-
wall, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr J. Hettinger, Mr G. W. Fisk,
and Mr W. H. Salter took part.
NOTES ON SITTINGS.
By Illit Grondahl.
The following is an account of a series of sittings with the Norwegian
medium Fru Sophie Wereide and with the English medium Mrs
Osborne Leonard. A full report has been deposited with the
S.P.R., but I should like to emphasize and enlarge a little on the
points that to me seem the most significant.
My mother died suddenly in her 72nd year on 15 January 1927,
my father after about a year's illness on 31 March of the same year.
On 5 April I had a table and planchette-sitting with Dr Th. Wereide,
Reader in Physics at the University of Oslo, and his wife, Fru
July 1933 Notes on Sittings 103
Sophie Wereide, who is a non-professional medium. We sat in the
usual way round a small varnished wooden three-legged table, which
immediately began tilting out the following (in English) :
" Illit your parents hand in hand with wandering steps and slow
through our silence to[From this point the planchette was used, all
three resting a hand on the planchette]ok their wandering way. 1
Don't call them back they [sic] happy ones that have fullfilled [sic]
their shadow lives. (Question : Who is communicating ?) Your
old friend D. H., Your earlier guide in this, of course ". D. H. had
frequently appeared with communications, in English, to the
Wereides.
D. H. here continued in Norwegian, dissuading one from seeking
the departed in this way—by mechanical means—because it binds
them to the " shadows ", their " doubles ", and recommending
" spiritual experience ".
Trying again with the table, the movements were jerky, as
though impatient, and we were told, in Norwegian :
" No, do not
tear at the veil. (Question : Who is speaking 1) Annabetha."
After this the small table waltzed about under our hands and fell
over.
At a sitting with Dr and Mrs Wereide on 20 April, in which my
sister Mrs Birgit Grondahl Bekker also took part, a communicator
G. M. J. styled himself " the old dean " and thereby clearly identified
himself as Gustav M. J., a prominent divine in Norway, who died
some years ago. He referred to an incident in the life of my father
—his presence at the opening of a Scandinavian Seamen's Church
at Liverpool (1 December 1884)—which was then unknown to me
and which I was afterwards able to verify from the records of the
Norwegian Seamen's Mission of which my father was pastor in
London 1881-1894.
My subsequent planchette sittings with the Wereides have been
marked by the insistent appearance of a late professor of History
and Ethnography, under whom I studied some 20 years previously,
and of my father's only sister. It is the latter personality, who by
her continual appearance, in connection with names of relatives
partly dead and partly still living, seems to me to constitute the
centre of interest in the following sittings, and especially by per-
sisting—in the same associations—under the mediumship of Mrs
Osborne Leonard.
Later in April 1927—with the same sitters—the following was
spelt out through the planchette (in Norwegian) :
" Johannes is
more ill than his nearest are aware of. Anna. He is mostly con-
1
It was only a year and a half later that I recognized this as a modified
quotation of the last lines in Paradise Lost.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
cerned about Kristoffer : he is not suited to be more alone than
he already is ". There were at the time two of my relatives by
name Johannes who were ill, and I thought first of my uncle
Johannes—my father's brother—who was about to have an opera-
tion on his leg. But the planchette continued :
" You are on
the wrong track with regard to the identity of Johannes. Julie."
A cousin of mine, Johannes, was ill at the time, and it became clear
from the connection that he was the person thought of. His
brother Kristoffer (or Christopher) was becoming increasingly deaf
and " more alone ". His wife Julie died at the birth of their only
child, a daughter, in 1916. [" Julie " was mentioned by Mrs
Brittain in trance, 7 April 1919.] A planchette-sitting with Dr
and Mrs Wereide at my brother-in-law's and sister's flat 14 January
1928 opened with the words :
" Julie does not come in this way.
It will be difficult, a difficult time for Kristoffer. He has tendencies
to isolation also. Anna."
On 10 May 1928 I had a sitting with Mrs Osborne Leonard. At
an earlier sitting with Mrs Leonard, 11 October 1927 (when my
name was not given), nothing recognizable occurred except the
name Anna. This was also the case during the first half of my
second sitting, when the name Margaret and Anna cropped up in
connection with Johannes. Particular significance was added by
the declaration that " Mrs Grethe wanted to give that name in
the writing ". Grethe was the name by which my father's only
sister, christened Anna Margrethe—the mother of Johannes and
Christopher—was known. Further the name Borger was men-
tioned in connection with her, Borger being Grethe's and my father's
elder brother, who died in March 1927. Grethe, who had in her
large and hospitable house outside Christiania been a kind of social
centre of the larger Grondahl family, died about 60 years of age
in the late autumn of 1909. A very fair though brief description
of her house and the view from it over a bay " like the mouth
of a river, flowing in from the sea, like a basin, a kind of town and
ships coming up " formed the conclusion of my second, and to me
most interesting, sitting with Mrs Osborne Leonard. The signi-
ficance of it is much enhanced by its position as an interpolation
in the series of the Wereide sittings. That (Mar)grethe, who has
constantly occurred in connection with her still living sons Johannes
and Christopher at the Wereide sittings, should appear in connection
with Johannes and her brother Borger at the Osborne Leonard
sitting seemed to me to constitute at least a small psychic case,
worthy of being followed up.
July 1933 Notes on Sittings 105
THE INVESTIGATIONS OF ROBERT CHAMBERS.
The name of Robert Chambers (1802-71) is well known as that of a
member of the publishing firm of W. and R. Chambers. He was
the author or compiler of many works of a semi-popular nature, and
he also acquired some reputation as a geologist, and in particular as
the author of the Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation (1813-6).
He is known to have interested himself towards the end of his life
in the subject of spiritualism, which was then at the height of its
popularity in England. Curiosity has consequently been felt as to
the nature of the material referred to in the Dictionary of National
Biography, the writer in which states that among Chambers's
" unpublished works are an extensive inquiry into spiritualistic and
psychical research. . .
."
By the kindness of Mrs Edward Fitzgerald, one of Robert Cham-
bers's granddaughters, and of Mr Trethewy, who acted as inter-
mediary, four documents in Robert Chambers's hand and relating
to his researches into supernormal phenomena, have come into the
Society's possession as a much appreciated gift from Mrs Fitzgerald.
These documents, which probably form a part or perhaps even the
whole of the works alluded to in D.N.B., are as follows :
1. A report dated 9 May 1853 of a sitting on the previous evening
with Mrs Hayden, during which spirit-cornmumcations were
received by means of raps. This lady had arrived in England a
few months earlier and was the first medium to give sittings in
this country.
2. A diary kept during 2-23 May 1855, consisting largely of accounts
of sittings for raps and the like with a Miss Powell. This diary also
records conversations with Mrs De Morgan and with Sir Edward
Bulwer Lytton (afterwards Baron Lytton). The latter, among
other things, is reported to have described his " intercourse with a
Mr Hume, a young man from America, but of Scottish extraction
—
whose family, he says, had some gift of the second sight. Mr Hume
is a medium of extraordinary power—if power be the right word to
use in the case. At Nebworth [sic for Knebworth] where Sir E.
had him on a visit, he caused a table to rise off the floor, and a
guitar placed below a table where the party was seated, was touched
by an invisible hand. He also caused an invisible hand to touch the
individuals in the company. Sir Edward is assured that the ghostly
hand is even in some circumstances made visible, as proceeding from
the muffled up arm of one of the party." The meaning of the last
sentence is obscure.
3. A long account of a sitting with D. D. Home on 21 May 1860.
This is reproduced below.
4. A fairly long diary, kept during a visit to the United States,
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
22 September- 16 October 1860. The following mediums are
referred to, chiefly from personal investigation : J. R. Newton
(pp. 4, 16-24), a healing medium ; Mrs Conant (pp. 4-5, 24), a trance
medium ; J. V. Mansfield (pp. 5-12), a billet-reader, of whom
Robert Chambers says that " he has been exclusively occupied
giving responses to sealed notes, charging a dollar for each.
He has now read about 120,000 " [in eight years, making
over forty a day!].; Lizzie Doten (pp. 15-17), a trance medium;
Mrs French (pp. 25-7), a medical clairvoyante ; the well-
known medium Charles Foster (pp. 28-46), whose versatile
phenomena included raps, skin-writing, billet-reading, and various
physical phenomena ; one Colchester (pp. 46-8), another billet-
reader, whom Chambers suspected, and whose phenomena led him
to wonder about Foster ; Mrs Staats (pp. 49-52), a spirit-seer ;
Henry C. Gordon (pp. 56-62, 64-7), who used a kind of planchette
and produced physical phenomena ; a blind medium called Paist
(pp. 62-4), who " can even drive a carriage—by the help of the
spiritual sight or seership " ; Laura Edmonds, the daughter of
Judge Edmonds (pp. 68-74), with whom he had a conversation only ;
and finally Katherine Fox and Mrs Underhill (pp. 74-8), two of the
Fox sisters, who showed him various physical phenomena. In this
diary Robert Chambers also describes an apparition seen by Dr
Joseph G. Gogswell (pp. 52-6).
These documents clearly contain material of much historical
interest to psychical research, and students of the subject are much
indebted to Mrs Fitzgerald for having so generously presented them
to the Society.
^ -g
A Sitting with D. D. Home in 1860.
[The most interesting of the papers by Robert Chambers, pre-
sented to the Society by his grand-daughter Mrs Edward Fitzgerald,
is undoubtedly his detailed account of a sitting with D. D. Home,
which is reproduced in full below. The sitting was held in Mrs
Milner Gibson's house, and it will be seen that the report dates from
the day after the sitting. This particular sitting does not appear
to have been previously reported, unless it can be identified, as
seems not improbable, with the sitting described by Robert Bell
in his Cornhill article of August 1860 and afterwards by Dr Gully.
(It is characteristic of the records of this period that it should be
impossible to determine with certainty, from a comparison of two
independent records, whether or not they relate to the same sitting.)
For sittings in the same place at about the same time, see, for instance,
D. D. Home, Incidents in my Life 2
(1864), pp. 141 ff., and Mme
Home, D. D. Home, his Life and Mission (1888), pp. 137 ff., and
July 1933 Notes on Sittings 107
The Gift ofD. D. Home (1890), pp. 143 ff. The Society's D. D. Home
Collection contains a number of letters to Home from both Sirs
Milner Gibson and Robert Chambers. These show that the former
was on terms of the closest friendship with Home ; and that
the latter, though never so close an intimate, was in friendly
correspondence with him. Not long before the sitting, for instance,
on 7 March 1860, Chambers wrote to Home to ask him, on behalf of
a Miss Douglas, to wear a pair of gloves for a short time and then to
return them.
This account is printed for its historical interest, and no attempt is
made critically to evaluate it. Ed.]
On the evening of the 21st May 1860, at Mrs Milner Gibson's house,
No. 3 Hyde Park Terrace, 1
a small party met to witness some of the
phenomena alleged to be produced under an influence which attends
Mr D. D. Hume. The party sat down at a round table in the back
drawing-room, which was well heated and lighted. At Mr Hume's
left hand was Mrs Milner Gibson ; next her, Lady Shelley ;
then,
in succession, Mrs R. Chambers, Dr Gully, Mr Robert Bell, Mr R.
Chambers, Mademoiselle Gallere,2
and Sir Ashurst ;
being nine
persons in all. All having placed their hands on the table, knockings
were soon heard at different parts of the surface, some in a different
tone and force from others. The table also tilted in various direc-
tions ; slid laterally several times ; and finally rose about a foot into
the air, but quickly came down again. In the course of the evening,
it rose in the same way five or six times ; on one occasion, fully
eighteen inches. Mr Hume told us that if we could have sat quite
still when the table rose, it would have continued longer off the
ground. We almost unavoidably shifted back a little to allow it
freedom of motion and clear ourselves of it ; and this, he said,
interfered with or marred the influence at work. It may be re-
marked that, while one person could doubtless have tilted up the
table a little on one side with hand or foot, there was no visible means
of raising it equably on all sides to such a height, unless most of the
company had combined to raise it, the fact being that all sat
perfectly still, with their hands laid lightly on the surface, where no
such agency of course could be exercised.
Amongst the earliest particulars observed was a trembling of the
table, which gradually extended to the floor and consequently to
the chairs on which we were seated. All declared themselves
sensible of this tremulation of the floor and chairs. There was also
1
[Sic, read Hyde Park Place.]
2
[This name is spelt Galeer " in Mme Home's The Gift of D. D. Home
(1890), p. 143.]
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, July 1933
at this early stage a general experience of the gentle blowing of a
cool aura ; the more remarkable as the room was very warm.
After perhaps half an hour spent in listening to rappings, &c.
Mrs Milner Gibson asked in an endearing tone if " Nolly " was
present, meaning the spirit of a son of hers not long ago deceased at
eight years old. Taking a twice-round black-bead bracelet from her
arm, and holding it half under the cover of the table, she asked if
Nolly would take it from her ; and presently it was taken away
from her, and carried about under the table, rattling, slapping
on the fluted pillar, and dancing about, as if some playful child were
amusing himself with it. Finally, it was laid on a sofa behind the
company, on the side farthest away from Mrs Milner Gibson.
Acting under directions from Mr Hume, Mrs Chambers held a
hand-bell half under the hanging table-cover, and it was in like
manner taken out of her hand, and carried round under the table
ringing ; all hands keeping meanwhile on the surface, as before.
The spirit was asked to bring the bell to Mr Chambers, who presently
putting his right hand under the table received it, as from an
intelligent messenger, and brought it up to the surface. He then
held it under the table cover again, and asked that it might be taken
from his hand ; and presently it was received and carried off. The
spirit was asked to give back the bell to Mrs Chambers, and she soon
felt it at her knees ; but she failed to receive it rightly into her
hand, and it was heard to fall with a clash upon the floor.
The end of the room formed a bow, with three windows, all
closed and curtained. The curtain of the central window being
now opened, and the lights all put out, we had the table removed
close to the recess, and all sat down again as before, excepting that
the part towards the recess was empty, Mr Ashurst having for this
reason to take a seat behind Lady Shelley. The faint light which
came through the window from the sky was presently lessened by
the slow descent under invisible agency of the blind ; after which
we might be said to be sitting in the dark. It was now expected
that spiritual hands would become visible between the table and
recess ; but we were warned against expecting any such thing too
intently, as such expectations were apt to mar the influence.
We were at the same time desired to go on chatting, however gaily,
as remarkable phenomena were most likely to take place under such
circumstances. No one besides Mr Hume professed to see any
spiritual hand during the evening ;
but, while we continued seated
at the window, the sense of touch repeatedly bore witness to the
presence of what were understood to be spiritual hands. I was
frequently touched by what seemed to be a hand, both pattingly on
the front of the leg, and with the palm laid on the knee.
Mrs Chambers asked if the spirit of her child Margaret was
July 1933 Notes on Sittings 109
present, and received an answer in the affirmative, expressed in the
usual manner by three raps on the table. She asked if the spirit
would touch her, and presently she felt a couple of little hands
fondling her knees, scratching on her moire silk dress, and patting
behind the hanging table cover. A communication was spelt out
by the alphabet (conducted by Mr Hume), to the effect, " My dear
mother, I am near you." On a suggestion by Mr Hume, Mrs
Chambers enveloped her hand in her handkerchief, and held it under
the table, with a request that the spirit would take it. She felt as
if a dog's nose touched her hand, and presently the handkerchief
was drawn away from her. Mr Hume declared he saw it thrown
across the table behind Mr Chambers, and there it was immediately
after found on the floor by Mr Ashurst. It was impossible for Mr
Hume to have dropped it close behind one thus sitting on the
opposite side of the table. Mr Chambers then took the same means
for having the same experience, but found, instead of a child's hand,
a man's, which, after a vain effort on his part to grasp it, withdrew.
A communication by the alphabet explained that this was his
father's spirit. On a second time putting forward his hand within
the handkerchief, the seeming hand came forward, nibbled at it a
little, till it seemed to get a sufficient hold of the handkerchief, then
drew off the handkerchief, which was next instant thrown in Mrs
Chambers's face. In the course of these experiments, Mrs Chambers
felt a hand placed upon her head thrice at intervals.
Now and then in the course of the evening, the accordion was
held by Mr Hume with one hand under the table, and tunes were
played upon it by invisible agency. While light lasted, we could
see his one hand lying on the table, as the other held the instrument
by the valve end, with the keys hanging downwards. It was then
clearly impossible that he could be the player. Mr Chambers held
it for a short time, during which a few bars of tunes were played.
At a subsequent stage, while the instrument lay on the floor in the
recess of the window, it was played on without any one holding it,
giving forth the most beautiful strains imaginable, such as I could
hardly suppose producible by any mortal musician. On my asking
if the spirit of my father would play some of his favourite airs, the
high notes were called into play, as in imitation of a quick tune
on the flute, which was his instrument. The accordion several times
was pushed up in the recess till it came and lay upon the table.
Afterwards, it seemed to be carried entirely away from amongst us,
and on our asking where it was, it was heard to give out a few notes
from a point high in the air at a distant part of the room, as in
answer to our enquiry. I may remark that amongst the strains
which issued from it in its independent evolutions, there were some
of the finest attenuation, as we thought—so fine, as to recall to me
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
the Shakespearian expression " nought lives 'twixt it and silence "
;
yet after an interval these were followed by an echo finer still, yet
distinctly audible. On one occasion, there was a second echo—an
echo of an echo, as it were.
We had now sat for about three hours. Latterly, the curtains of
the one open window were drawn by invisible agency close together,
so as to produce perfect darkness ; but now these were in the same
mysterious manner opened, so as to allow of our seeing the dim
blind. Mr Hume rose and told us that a hand had taken his and
was leading him into the middle of the room. Presently we heard
him speaking there. " Oh," said he, " they are raising me up off
the ground." Amidst breathless wonder, we heard him during the
next two or three minutes speaking from midway up to the ceiling,
and so apparently getting carried about through the room, till he
seemed to be brought over us, and placed on the table, where I felt
his feet and legs. The missing accordion came into his grasp as he
sailed about, and played beautifully ;
afterwards, it was disengaged
from him, and went about of itself, playing music that seemed to
me quite heavenly. After he had rested a minute on the table,
he was raised again, but not high, and we saw him crossing in front
of the dim light. I then felt his feet resting on my shoulders, with
about a third or fourth of his natural weight, so as not to be in the
least inconvenient to me ; and next minute or so he alighted gently
on the sofa behind me. It was of course to be regretted that we
could not see his figure fairly suspended in the air ; but beyond
question no one could have come upon the table by ordinary means
without disturbing some one of our close circle, and so being detected
in imposture. We were not left the least room to doubt that he was
carried through the air and let down upon the table.
The only remaining manifestation was one very interesting to
Mrs Chambers. A communication from her child spirit came as an
enquiry, " May Margaret break the roses ?
" referring, it was under-
stood^] to a rose-bush with two blown roses upon it, which stood
on a stand at one of the side windows. Mrs Milner Gibson gave a
cordial assent, and immediately some of the company heard a rose
broken off, and this was next instant placed on Mrs Chambers's
shoulder. The same spirit asked leave to make a hole in her
mother's lace cuff, and on leave being granted Mrs Chambers felt a
couple of little hands working at her lace, in which a small gap was
made at the edge.
It was now midnight, and most of the company were beginning
to feel weary. It seemed to be quite a proper time that the spirits
proposed to give us a good night on the accordion. With a beautiful
lullaby-like air, the proceedings closed.
London, May 22, 1860.
July 1933 Correspondence 111
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Spirit-Photographer William Hope.
To the Editor of The, Journal.
Sir, —Since the publication in Proceedings of the " Report of an
Investigation into Spirit-Photography " by Major W. Rampling
Rose and myself, further evidence in regard to this matter is available
which it is perhaps advisable to place on record.
On one or two occasions Mr William Hope asked me to obtain for
him a chemical known as calcium sulphide. This I thought he
wanted for painting a seance trumpet or the like. A month or so ago,
on going through some of Hope's correspondence, I was surprised to
discover a letter to me from his private address at Oakley Street,
Crewe. Almost without exception Hope's letters were addressed
from 144 Market Street, Crewe, the home of Mrs Buxton. This
particular letter, among other things, contained the following
request
:
" Will you paint me a card with that luminous paint. Give it a
coat or two and let me have it this week if you can, or tell me where
I can get it for I cannot get it in Crewe. We are due at the College
next week. Let me have the card early and I will do as much for you
some day. Write me to my own address which is, 50 Oakley Street,
Crewe."
In my enlightened frame of mind, it occurred to me that he
wanted this sent to Oakley Street so that Mrs Buxton would know
nothing of it and that he perhaps wanted it to prepare a stock of
extras for his visit to London. I immediately tried this luminous
paint and was surprised at the result. I do not for a moment suggest
that Hope used it for all his fakes—he had doubtless many methods
—
but an examination shows that he could have used it for numerous
effects. All one has to do is to paint a little of this on a small
positive (or place the positive in front of a card that has been
painted), press it in contact with the surface of the plate and it gives
a perfect image. A small flash light can be hidden in the pocket and
if the luminous positives are enlivened by this a few minutes before
they are used, they are sufficiently actinic to print an image instan-
taneously. Calcium sulphide is economical, safe and simple, and the
irony of it all is that I provided Hope myself with sufficient of this
stuff to fake thousands of extras. Both the " sitter " and the
" extras " on the illustration herewith, were printed on the photo-
graphic plate by means of luminous paint.
In my paper, as originally read, I referred to a discovery of fake
materials in Hope's bag but did not then feel at liberty to give any
details. Mrs Barbara McKenzie in the issue of Light dated 2 June
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
last, has now made public the fact that while at the British College
her husband, Mr Hewat McKenzie, made a secret examination of
Hope's bag and found in it a flash lamp with bulb attachment, some
cut out photographic heads and some hair. In a discussion after the
discovery, Mr McKenzie and myself were in no doubt whatever that
Hope had been using similar apparatus for the production of his
results, although Mr McKenzie was still definitely of the opinion
that Hope had at times produced genuine psychic effects.
Mr McKenzie's suspicions were aroused by the fact that after the
Price-Hope case of 1922, all the extras secured by Hope at the
British College, on their specially marked plates, were of the
" switch " or flash-light type. The use of a flash lamp had been
discussed on many occasions and it was to settle his doubts that Mr
McKenzie made an examination of Hope's bag. Certain other events
had tended to increase Mr McKenzie's suspicions, such as the fact
that Hope's bag was always locked and specially placed. My view
is that it was only right for this examination to have been made and
for the facts to be placed before the public.
It would appear from my discussion with some of Hope's most
strenuous supporters that even they believe he deceived. My own
considered opinion is that in no single instance did I obtain with
Hope a genuine psychic effect.
Yours, etc.,
Feed Barlow.
REVIEWS
T. Brailsford Robertson, Ph.D., D.Sc, A Note Book. 8vo,pp. viii.
39, 2 ill. Adelaide : The Hassell Press, 1932.
This little book consists of notes made by the late Prof. T. B.
Robertson, in which he recorded for his own use certain experiences
and certain speculations to which they had given rise in his mind.
Prof. Robertson, who was a bio-chemist of distinction and the author
of The Physical Chemistry of the Proteins (1912), The Principles of
Bio-Chemistry (1918), and The Chemical Basis of Growth and Sene-
scence (1923), died in January 1930 at the age of forty-five. This
note-book is now published by his wife, Mrs Jane W. Robertson.
The book is divided into three parts. The second, which deals
with a visit to Pavlov's laboratory in St Petersburg in 1914, is of no
special interest from the point of view of psychical research. The
first records eight cases of apparent telepathy, mostly between
Prof. Robertson and his wife, which took place in the latter part of
1913 and the earlier part of 1914. None of them separately is par-
ticularly striking, but Prof. Robertson says in Part III that the
continual accumulation of such experiences persuaded him that
Both the figure and the " extras " were produced by
contact with a luminous positive.
July 1933 Rev lews 113
telepathy is a fact. Sometimes these coincidences would occur
almost hourly for days at a time, and then weeks would elapse
without an instance being noticed.
In connection with these apparently telepathic phenomena, Prof.
Robertson generally recorded the train of thought in his own mind
which had led up to his share in the coincidence. Unfortunately in
most cases he did not investigate, or at any rate did not record, the
train of thought in Mrs Robertson's mind which had led up to her
share in the coincidence.
In Part III Prof. Robertson states that repeated personal ex-
perience has convinced him that premonition, as well as telepathy,
is a fact. His account of his own premonitory experiences is ex-
tremely interesting. They always took place during sleep, and they
were nearly always forewarnings of disagreeable events. The few
exceptions to the latter rule were, he says, "of an indescribably
different character." The events foreseen were of three kinds, viz.
(a) trivial personal misfortunes, (b) serious personal dangers, and
(c) public disasters. The previsions of serious events, both private
and public, were a combination of two radically different kinds of
experience. One of these was a vague foreboding of danger or
disaster ; the other was an extremely vivid visual image of certain
details in the future situation. Prof. Robertson's statements are not
absolutely unambiguous, but I understand him to say that the vague
foreboding and the definite visual image would both recur many
times and would not necessarily be connected by him. But finally a
situation would arise which was dangerous or disastrous, and in
which there was some outstanding detail of a quite characteristic
kind corresponding to the visual image. Afterwards this visual
image would not recur. He makes the important remark that the
emotional tone (apprehension, anger, etc.) of his premonitions was
proportional, not to the objective danger or inconvenience of the
foreseen event, but to the degree of emotion which the latter aroused
in him when it actually took place. Thus the prevision of an event
which was not really dangerous, but which aroused great fear when
it happened, would be an experience of strong apprehension. And
the prevision of an event which was really dangerous, but which
aroused no great fear when it happened, would be an emotionally
unimpressive experience. The vividness of visual factor was,
however, quite independent of these conditions.
Two interesting examples are given. One was an apprehension
of grave personal danger associated with a vivid visual image of a
long strip of sand and a struggle to escape from something. In
September 1915 he nearly lost his life while bathing at Bolinas,
California ; and he identified the visual image with the sand-pit at
Bolinas. Just before starting for Bolinas he had handed a folded
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
paper to Mrs Robertson, asking her not to read it till they had re-
turned. She put it into a sealed envelope. After the adventure she
read it, and found that he had written that they would both be in
great danger at Bolinas, and would nearly lose their lives. Mrs
Robertson was swimming with him when he was nearly drowned by
a strong current, though it is not quite clear from her statement that
they were both in danger.
The other example refers to the war of 1914 to 1918. He had had
an intense and prolonged but vague premonition of impending public
disaster, accompanied by a vivid visual image of the arrival of an
army at a certain village. And, in connection with this visual
image, he had a terrifying impression of " absolutely ruthless and
brutal assertion of power ". He claims that he afterwards identified
his visual image with photographs of Dinant. He admits that he
had not beforehand connected the vague presentiment of public
disaster with the vivid visual image. This being so, it would seem
that the only part of the story which is of much importance as
evidence for prevision is the identification of the vivid visual image
of a town being entered by a hostile army with the photographs of
Dinant. The vague expectation of a great public disaster may well
have been quite irrelevant. For Prof. Robertson was constantly
having vague apprehensions of unpleasant events, and the contem-
porary political situation in 1914 was (and has been ever since) such
as to provide ample cause for apprehending grave public disaster in
the near future.
Accepting telepathy and prevision as facts, Prof. Robertson
made and recorded certain speculations to account for them. These
are too briefly stated to be easily grasped or profitably discussed in
detail. He appears to have held that the physiological basis of
telepathic experiences is oxidation-processes in the brain ;
that such
a process in one brain can set up a corresponding process in another
brain by some kind of disturbance which travels through an inter-
vening medium ; that we might discover the nature of these
chemical processes, and make artificial chemical systems in which
they could be induced ; and that such artificial systems could then
be used to record and to experiment with the telepathic influence.
He had proposed to carry out experiments on these lines, but he
would appear not to have done so. It is difficult to see that this
suggestion, even if it were found to be useful as a hypothesis for
guiding investigations on telepathy, could throw any light on
prevision.
C. D. Broad.
July 1933 Rev lews 115
A. Von Schrenck-Notzing, Die Entwicklung des Okhdtismus zur
Parapsychologie in Deutschland. 8vo, pp. 124. Leipzig
:
Verlag 0. Mutze, 1932.
The present work has been published by his widow from Schrenck-
Notzing's literary remains. It was his aim to survey in it the
development of psychical research in Germany since 1882, the
year of the foundation of the S.P.R. and of the death of Zollner.
Schrenck-Notzing was of the opinion that the appearance of Pro-
fessors Driesch and Oesterreich as supporters of psychical research
marked the taking by psychical research of its place in official
science (p. 24). I agree that official science will never again wholly
ignore the study of supernormal phenomena, but serious setbacks
may yet occur ; for more than once famous University Professors,
such as Fechner and Weber, and earlier Fichte and Eschenmayer,
pronounced themselves in favour of the genuineness of these pheno-
mena, without thereby causing psychical research to become an
officially recognised department of science.
Schrenck's book falls into several parts. He deals first of all with
the investigation of paraphysical phenomena and with the con-
troversies aroused by them ; then he discusses the parapsychical
phenomena and finally hauntings. He deals in detail with the
criticisms of opponents, and it must be recognised that in doing so
he adopts a courteous tone (pp. 75-6) and expressly dissociates him-
self from the polemical manners of Professor Schroder. Schrenck
admits that the critical works of Lehmann, Dessoir and Moll (p. 69)
greatly contributed to the scientific advancement of our subject, in
that they impressed on psychical researchers the necessity for a
more thorough examination of sources of error, for the improvement
of method of investigation, and for greater reserve in the theoretical
treatment of the results obtained.
In a substantial section are described the works which discuss our
subject theoretically and philosophically, in particular the works of
Dacque and Mattiesen, and finally Schrenck discusses the attitude
towards psychical research of both Roman Catholic and Protestant
theologians. The book discusses foreign investigations only in so far
as they are known in Germany by translations or exhaustive reviews.
On the whole the book is a readable survey of the most important
experiments and theoretical discussions ; a vivid impression is given
of many little-known works, Schrenck's exposition gaining from the
fact that he personally knew not only contemporary investigators,
but also such earlier writers as Du Prel, Hellenbach, and Eduard
von Hartmann. Schrenck describes himself as in a sense a pupil of
Du Prel (p. 6), but he differed from him in supporting a more strictly
scientific procedure ; in the campaign of Hartmann against the
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
spiritualists, Aksakov and Du Prel, he supported Hartmann in his
animistic interpretation of supernormal phenomena.
A considerable amount of space is naturally taken up by the
description and defence of Schrenck's own investigations ;
this is
quite proper, since nothing would remain in Germany in the field
of paraphysical phenomena if Schrenck's results had to be put aside.
In his efforts to find ever new support for his own results Schrenck-
Notzing does not hesitate to put forward highly doubtful investiga-
tions, such as those of Dr Schwab with the Berlin medium Frau
Vollhardt (p. 63). He is also of the opinion that Dr Imoda's in-
vestigations of Linda Gazerra (p. 14) marked an important advance
in the investigation of paraphysical mediumship, although elsewhere
he had written of them {Psych. Stud., 1912, p. 172), that " the
damage which is done by such unsatisfactory publications is very
great ". In general, Schrenck is much too ready in this book to
accept very improbable phenomena without adequate justification.
This is particularly notable in his treatment of the Eva C. medium-
ship, in which he seriously misrepresents the conclusion of the
S.P.R. Committee (p. 21).
Still more remarkable is the presentation of the Kraus case. Kraus
was a medium with whom Schrenck made telekinetic experiments in
1924. These so impressed him that he gave a glowing account of
them at the Paris Congress in 1927, although in the meanwhile
Kraus had been exposed in Vienna and had confessed that he had
always deceived Schrenck-Notzing.
These and similar passages show that the present work fulfils a
propagandist rather than a purely scientific aim. If, however, the
investigations by Dr Osty and the S.P.R. of Rudi Schneider finally
demonstrate that paraphysical phenomena really exist, the life-
work of Schrenck-Notzing will have been justified, even though he
sometimes confused the attitude of a partisan with that of a scientific
investigator.
(Translated by Th. B.) R- Lambert.
Letters from Sir Oliver Lodge. Compiled and annotated by J. A.
Hill. 8vo, pp. xiv. 267, 4 portraits. London : Cassell, 1932.
This is a difficult book to review because it consists almost entirely
of letters on a variety of subjects written by one man to one friend.
Mr Hill had volunteered to help Sir Oliver with his voluminous
correspondence on psychical matters, but the letters here collected
range over a large number of subjects, and from the very nature of
the case can only give an incomplete idea of Sir Oliver's thoughts
and occupations. This is no doubt the case with all collections of
letters, but sometimes the letters are literary gems in themselves or
else illuminate the working of a literary mind. Sir Oliver is a man
July 1933 Reviews 117
of science first and foremost, and scientific questions cannot be
adequately dealt with in letters to a friend. The book suffers from
its very variety ; its range is wide but rarely do the letters go far
below or above the surface of things. Mr Hill says, "It is hoped
that this volume may serve as a sort of appendix to Sir Oliver's
Autobiography ", and this is exactly how the volume strikes one.
The letters are often interesting, and they do, to quote Mr Hill
again, " show aspects of his character which are not likely to appear
in what he writes about himself ;
generosity, kindliness, and other
good qualities of which he is perhaps unconscious ". His friends
know these things about him and enjoy their display in intimate
letters, but I am not sure if the public will see his character emerge
more plainly than in his published works.
There is a most interesting account on p. 47 of his connection
with the invention of wireless telegraphy, which it is well to have
recorded in his own words, for there has been a great deal of mis-
conception on the matter. Although the invention was the product
of many minds, and notably, as Sir Oliver says, of Herz, yet Sir
Oliver's own large share has never received sufficient recognition,
at any rate from the outside world.
There are many comments, too, on psychical affairs which demon-
strate the care with which he experimented and investigated, and
on p. 120 ff. the general question of telepathy and its implications is
dealt with in a masterly way.
Like everything which Sir Oliver writes and says, his nobility of
purpose, his essential humility, his constant pre-occupation with
scientific statement, and his fearless pronouncements when he is
convinced, shine through the pages of this book. He is, it seems,
acutely aware that his psychical opinions have injured his standing
as a scientist, but to be convinced of a truth means to a man of Sir
Oliver's temper to proclaim it and take the consequences. The
consequences in his case may well mean an even greater post-
humous reputation as a man of science than his living fame, great
though that be. E. Lyttelton.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, Bulletin V.
Mr Price has followed up his Bulletin IV, in which he charged
Rudi Schneider with fraud, with Bulletin V, which chiefly refers to
some sittings with Rudi Schneider held in Vienna in 1924. If
readers of Mr Price's Bulletin IV should happen to turn to this addi-
tional Bulletin in the hope that it may throw some light on the
obscurer portions of his former production, they are likely to be dis-
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
appointed. Rather is it likely to create a feeling of wonder in the
minds of readers that Mr Price should have thought it worth while
to have printed it at all. Except that it concerns the same medium
and another charge of fraud, even vaguer and less well substantiated
than that made in his Bulletin IV, with which I have already dealt
in Proceedings, it cannot be said to be of any relevant interest.
It seems that Mr Price is seeking to justify the charges brought
by him against this medium in Bulletin IV by raking up some very
doubtful evidence of fraud, said to have been obtained nine years
ago under dissimilar conditions and in regard to a different type of
phenomena. If Mr Price attaches such importance to the suspicions
of Professor Meyer and Przibram why did he not include their
testimony in his book Rudi Schneider published in 1930 ?
The only specific charge made against Rudi in connection with the
Vienna sittings of 1924 is that of Professor Przibram when he says,
in a letter written to Mr Price, and dated 28 April 1933, that while
Professor Meyer was controlling, he found that the medium had
freed his right hand for a short time. Unlike the procedure at all
the sittings held in London with this medium, the controller was
attempting to control with one hand both the medium's hands and
those of the second controller, who, we are also told, the Professors
considered to be unreliable. " In this situation ", writes Professor
Przibram, " he [Professor Meyer] noticed by feel that the medium
had got the right hand free ; after reinsertion, the hand was notice-
ably cooler ".
What exact theories the two professors were able to formulate
after this experience we are not told, nor is it stated whether any
" phenomenon " was recorded as having happened while the hand
was free. One hopes, too, that Professor Przibram, in his letter of
28 April 1933, is quoting from contemporary notes and not from
memory. If this constitutes the best support Mr Price can find for
his newly acquired theory that Rudi can free a hand at will, when
held in the manner obtaining at the 1932 sittings, then Mr Price is
betraying the weakness of his own position.
The first part of the Bulletin consists of a foreword by Mr Price,
including two recent letters from Professor Przibram, referring to
the Vienna sittings of 1924, and some comments by Mr Price,
referring chiefly to the sittings held by him with Rudi at his Labora-
tory in 1932 and some subsequent correspondence with that medium ;
the second part is devoted to a translation of some articles which
appeared in Vienna newspapers of 1924, giving, at second-hand, the
impressions of Professors Meyer and Przibram gained at four sittings
with Rudi, and an account of a pseudo-sitting at which Professor
Przibram deputised as the medium and succeeded in impressing
fourteen high-school teachers, barristers, medical men, etc. We are
July 1933 Notes on Periodicals 119
not told how many of these distinguished gentlemen had previously
attended the real sittings with Rudi. The articles end by making
no definite accusation of fraud, but maintain that satisfactory
normal explanations of the phenomena had been furnished by the
two professors, a conclusion for which there seems to have been
little or no evidence.
In his comments in the first part of this Bulletin, Mr Price tries
further to strengthen his case against Rudi by statements of equally
doubtful relevance. In referring to Rudi's " trance " breathing
and the possibility of its being duplicated by someone in a normal
state, Mr Price says the medium's fast breathing rarely lasts longer
than for one minute without its being interrupted by him speaking,
and in support of this theory includes a portion of the notes taken
at one sitting. In the example given, the medium spoke much oftener
than he usually does, and even so, two periods of four minutes or
more of breathing uninterrupted by speech are included.
Mr Price also reminds us that he already recorded some years ago
how he " ... simulated Rudi's breathing continuously for 6J
minutes ". I am not surprised to hear that Mr Price then felt
" exhausted "—indeed I am very surprised to hear he was able to
continue for so long a period without a break. Mr Price, who is so
accurate in giving us the length of his experiment to the nearest
quarter minute, does not tell us his own rate of breathing, so we are
unable to judge how it compared with the original in that important
detail.
On p. 19 Mr Price states that Rudi wrote to him on 7 March 1933,
accepting an invitation to return to him in the coming autumn
" after he had seen Bulletin IV ", thereby implying that Rudi
recognised his own guilt. Mr Price should quote his authority when
making statements of that kind. Actually Rudi, to whom Mr Price
had not sent a copy of his Bulletin IV, was not informed of its
contents until 9 March, when he was in Paris. On 8 March, Mr Price,
writing to Dr Gerda Walther, said, " I heard from Rudi this
morning and he did not mention the report, although Osty must
have had his copy by then. I expect they are keeping it from him.
'
'
1
I have quoted this to show the value of Mr Price's statements. In
another statement, previously made by him in the public press, Mr
Price says on p. 11, when referring to the conditions under which
Rudi had agreed to sit at his Laboratory in 1932, " Unfortunately
we were compelled to have this person, as Rudi would neither visit
the National Laboratory nor hold a seance without her." If by this
Mr Price means merely that Rudi had asked that his fiancee should
I
I regret that Mr Price's methods make it necessary to quote a personal letter
in this way. Actually Mr Price's report was shown to Rudi by Mr Besterman and
Dr Osty the day after its receipt in Paris.
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1933
be invited to London, he is deliberately trying to mislead us, but if
he means Rudi made her presence at the sittings a condition of his
visit, then Mr Price should quote his authority by publishing the
letter in which this condition was laid down. Until he does so, I shall
refuse to believe a statement so contrary to my own experience.
Mr Price includes a questionnaire to Dr Osty entitled " Vital
questions concerning Dr Osty's Report ", and in that and some
subsequent remarks he attempts to belittle that Report. It may be
doubted whether Mr Price is really much concerned that " Dr Osty
must expect his report to be mercilessly criticised " and a suspicion
will no doubt cross the mind of the reader of this Bulletin V that
Mr Price feels more than a little put out that Dr Osty's more con-
vincing methods have succeeded in arousing that scientific interest
in the case of Rudi Schneider which his own reports so signally
failed to achieve. Charles M. Hope.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, June 1933.
Exposing the Exposers. [Having in an earlier number made the
mistake of accepting Mr Price's recent " exposure " of Rudi Schneider
at its face value, the Editor now devotes the larger part of the present
number to a reprint of various letters and articles which point to
defects in that " exposure ". Several of Dr Osty's most important
points have unfortunately been lost in translation].
Revue Metapsychique, May-June 1933.
E. Bozzano, Reflections and Hypotheses in regard to Telepathic
Phenomena. [These suggestions are mainly concerned with the
classification of telepathic phenomena ; made with all their author's
customary ingenuity, they are mainly based on Mrs Sidgwick's
paper in vol. xxxiii of Proceedings]. —Charles Richet, What was
thought of the Dowsing-rod in the 17th century 1 —E. Osty, Science
and Prejudices. [These two articles consist of notes on extracts
from Pierre de Le Lorrain de Vallemont's La Physique Occulte, the
original edition of which (1693), with others, is in the Society's
Library].—R. S. Lacape, The Quantum Theory and Metapsychics.
-E. Osty, The Individual Relativity of the Experimental Proofs of
Survival. [An acute analysis of a case of apparent possession shortly
before death].—Paul Voigt, Infra-red Photography for Meta-
psychical purposes. Th.B.
No. 498.—Vol. XXVIII October 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Third
Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
Dr EUGENE OSTY
AT THE
CONWAY HALL,
(RED LION SQUARE, W.C. i)
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 October 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
N.B.
—
Admission will be by Ticket only. Full particulars are given
on the following page.
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
Cochrane-Baillie, Captain The Hon. Victor A., 29 Chesham Street,
i London, S.W.I.
Collins, Seward, 375 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Combe, G. A., C.B.E., 1035 Belmont Avenue, Victoria, B.C., Canada.
Craig, Mrs John Dickey, Bankers Trust Company, 501 Fifth
Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Gavorse, Joseph, 329| West 21st Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Mosher, Mrs Howard T., 216 Alexander Street, Rochester, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Thibodeau, William A., 20 Chapel Street, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 308th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 12 July 1933, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Dr William
Brown, Professor E. R. Dodds, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina
Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Dr E. C. S.
Schiller, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr Theodore Besterman was appointed the Society's Investiga-
tion Officer. Mrs Salter and Lord Charles Hope were associated
with him as Consultant Investigators.
The Monthly Accounts for May and June 1933. were presented
and taken as read.
THE THIRD MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE.
The Third Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, entitled Les
Aspects supranormaux de Venergie et de la matiere, will be dehvered
by Dr Eugene Osty in the Conway Hall, Red Lion Square, W.C.I, on
Wednesday, 25 October 1933, at 5.30 p.m. Admission will be by
ticket only. Tickets can be had by Members and Associates on
application to the Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.I. Should any tickets remain over after the 23rd of October
they will be distributed among interested members of the pubhc.
Red Lion Square is in the angle formed by the junction of South-
ampton Row and High Holborn. The nearest Underground
stations are Holborn and Chancery Lane. Buses 19, 38, 138 pass
the north entrance of the Conway Hall in Theobalds Road.
October 1933 Private Meetings 123
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
" Why I do not Believe in Survival."
The 124th. Private Meeting was held on Wednesday, 31 May 1933,
at 5.30 p.m., Mr G. W. Lambert in the Chair.
Professor E. R. Dodds read a paper entitled " Why I do not
believe in Survival ", which it is hoped to print in Proceedings.
A discussion followed in which the Chairman, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Colonel Maxwell Dick, Mr
A. W. Trethewy and Mr Besterman took part.
The Thomas Case.
The 125th Private Meeting was held on Wednesday, 28 June 1933,
at 5.30 p.m., Mr G. W. Lambert in the Chair.
Mrs W. H. Salter read a paper by Mrs Lydia W. Allison entitled
" The Thomas Case (Proxy Sittings with Mrs Leonard) ", which it
is hoped to print in Proceedings.
\ A discussion followed in which Mr Eindlater, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Miss Newton, Mr Besterman, Dr E. J. Dingwall and Mrs Baggally
took part.
DONATIONS FOR RESEARCH AND PRINTING.
Lord Charles Hope -
£75 0 0
*Anonymous ______ 30 0 0
Anonymous - - - - - 24 0 0
Anonymous ------ 20 0 o
Christopher Wood - 20 0 0
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas 15 0 0
Anonymous ------ 10 0 0
*C. E. Stansfield - L0 0 0
*Mrs. C. E. Stansfield - JO (1 0
*Miss Stansfield ------ 10 0 0
Anonymous -
5 0 0
David J. Lewis ------ 5 0 0
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. 5 0 0
*Rev. W. S. Irving ----- 3 3 0
*Dr C. V. Knight - - - - 3 3 0
Mrs J. H. Hall ------ 2 2 o
Mrs B. V. Tennant 2
>
0
FOR THE GENERAL FUND.
*Henry J. Patten ------ £1 0 0
Dr W. A. Carden ------ 0 8 8
Rev. A. R. Fryer- ----- 0 7 6
Donations so marked were received in 1932.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October r.>33
OBITUARY.
Sandor Ferenczi.
By the death of Dr Ferenczi the Society loses one of its most
adventurous speculative researchers. For over 30 years he pub-
lished (first in Hungarian, later in German and English) papers on
the phenomena of mental energy expressing itself in physical forms,
the expression of instinctual longings in alterations of physiological
states. The factors which lead to the employment of unusual
physical means of expression were on the whole of less interest to
him than the mechanisms of such " conversions from psychical
to somatic " spheres, so he stood midway between the group of
workers whose main interest is the effect of anxiety and guilt in
mental life (the present-day tendency in psycho-analysis) and those
whose work lies more especially in the descriptive field of psychical
research.
His most important contributions bearing on psychical research
lay in his stimulating papers on " The Development of the Sense of
Reality ", in which he showed how the child's developing perception
of the external world is a slow relinquishing of phantasies and again
how these phantasies are based on the child's notion of himself. In
line with these researches are his penetrating observations on the
way in which the mind, to conceal from itself its own defenceless-
ness in the presence of what is felt to be overwhelming and disrup-
tive internal excitement, either attributes to the external world
what really belongs within itself or attributes to itself what is
really external. His two most distinguished pupils have carried
his main contributions into fields which every psychologist has
sooner or later to master ; Dr Geza Roheim now works on the magical
beliefs of aborigines, Mrs Melanie Klein on similar beliefs in civilized
children.
After Prof. Freud himself no one has contributed more to the
psycho-analytical instruments of thought used in the critical
analysis of psychical research ; he stood second to none in his
enthusiasm for new ideas. To the neurologist the notion of tele-
pathy must be accounted a new idea ; he hailed the notion as an
important one to study. Although he did not publish observations
of a kind usually classed as supranormal, it is well known that he
had been collecting data for years, but he had not sufficient evidence
to warrant a paper. If anyone scouted the notion of telepathy being
other than coincidence, jamais raconte or other obvious explanation,
he reprimanded the unscientific attitude shown and warned the
scoffer of the almost unceasing error that scientific people fall into
when they dogmatise, and pointed out that even wish-fulfillments
serving a personal neurotic advantage might be objectively true.
October 1933 Obituary 125
When asked for the evidence of the supranormal phenomena that
he was so ready to welcome, he regretted that even a welcome did
not always bring the guest.
Such is the scientist we have all lost ; a smaller number mourn
the passing of a personal friend. His endowments in science sprang
from his gift for friendship, his capacity to accept and thoroughly
enjoy whatever was before him without being easily fooled. By his
insight he saw what was genial, productive and solid in everyone
he met, as he saw what was useful in a scientific theory of an old
wives' tale. His life was a rare unity of mind and heart working
together. Eager and romantic in temperament he maintained his
youthfulness even through the years of suffering, and his kindliness
even when bitterly opposed and misunderstood.
John Rickman.
CORRESPONDENCE
On the Possibility of Proving Survival
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have to thank Mr Saltmarsh for his comments in the June
number of the Journal on my suggestions presented in the March
number relative to the " Possibility of Proof of Survival " question.
It will be remembered we are indebted to him for raising the question
in his article contained in Proceedings, vol. xl. But since I think the
question is among the most important we have to discuss in this
field and since I represent a different viewpoint from that held by Mr
Saltmarsh, I wish to consider further Mr Saltmarsh's comments.
The first point is a very general one. Mr Saltmarsh urges that
" conviction of the truth or otherwise of the survival hypothesis
must always be a matter of individual idiosyncrasy " . It seems to me
that this condemns this problem (if not the whole field of psychical
research) everlastingly as a matter of unscientific beliefs. If, on
the other hand, Mr Saltmarsh means only that there is at present a
large element of " individual idiosyncrasy " involved in conviction on
the question, we can fully agree. This is, however, so very different
that we cannot infer it reliably from his own words. We could, of
course, agree that the element of personal attitude on the survival
question is far greater than in many questions arising in scientific
study. I take this to mean, however, that the facts and techniques
and principles are as yet quite inadequate for impersonal judgment.
But need we then predict that conviction " must always " be a
matter of individual idiosyncrasy, or even that it must ever remain
to such a partial extent as it is today ? May we not say rather that,
in as far as the study of psychical research becomes scientifically
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1033
developed the role of mere individual idiosyncrasy will be reduced ?
This change has occurred in other fields of inquiry and probably
in every branch of science.
Mr Saltmarsh mentions two variables that, he believes, make
individual idiosyncrasy the determining factor in belief. The first
is the " antecedent acceptability of survival ". Surely he does not
allow this to be a determining variable in any truly scientific inquiry !
Science knows no " impossibilities ", and lack of " antecedent
acceptability " is no serious condition to a genuinely scientific
decision. The fact that most people are not truly scientific does not,
at this point, concern us. In those who approach nearest to the
attitude and method of science we find least of this variable.
The second variable Mr Saltmarsh mentions is the " estimate of
the probability of the survival hypothesis in any particular case
against that of the alternatives". Now if this must always be a
matter of individual idiosyncrasy as he would maintain, I think
most critical and scientific psychical research students would give up
at once, if convinced of this. It is to reduce the variability and
unreliability of the personal judgment that, in any science, we try
to establish criteria, techniques and safeguards. What a pity indeed,
if this must be forever impossible in the field we are studying !
Rather, I doubt if any problem can be said to be " always a matter
of personal idiosyncrasy
'
'
.
The second point is merely a psychological distinction. But
it is very vital both in theoretical psychology and in this practical
question of identification of agencies. The point is that Mr Saltmarsh
attempts in the first paragraph of his letter to you, to include my
point of emphasis on the special identificative value of " peculiar
purposes " and " motivation " under his expression " habitual
forms of thought and association of ideas " . It is more than mere
quibbling to discriminate here, as Dr McDougall and all the purpo-
sive psychologists would emphatically maintain. The " habitual
forms " and " associations " of a deceased individual are old
established relations at the time of the trance experiment (i.e., if
they exist at all). It seems to be theoretically possible to explain
recall of them by the clairvoyant-telepathic-latent Memory-hypo-
thesis ! But the intrusion of a new purpose, never before produced,
is considerably different. It points to some purposive factor still at
work in a new and conative way, but which is more identifiable as
the purported deceased agent than as any other, living or dead. In
the personal recognition itself, the " habitual forms " and " associa-
tion of ideas " play a large part, but they do not constitute the
dynamic factor which indicates the peculiar agency, and helps to
exclude other possible agencies. They are rather the more static
components of the mental system. In making my point, I referred
October 1933 Correspondence 127
to the much greater identification value of the actual functional
peculiarity in novel situations. It is a most fundamental distinc-
tion, and whole psychological systems have been founded on this
very discrimination. I think its practical value to our problem is
very considerable.
A third and last point is still more important, and deals with
the specific illustration I used and which Mr Saltmarsh discussed.
The case referred to is that in which a deceased husband seems to
intrude into an unrelated sitting a message for his wife who has an
impending illness of which no one living is cognizant, telling her to
consult a physician. The message is forced in upon a trance experi-
ment conducted for another person, to whom the sensitive is at the
time supposedly devoted. The most important point, that of the
intrusion of the " spirit " agent concerned into the records intended
by the sensitive and her controls for another, was not commented
on by Mr Saltmarsh other than to say, " This, undoubtedly, presents
difficulty, but I think might be overcome by a little ingenuity " . I
raise a question here of justice to the point before us : Surely we
must agree that in discussing the interpretation of cases, the case
as a whole must be considered. One part may be explainable by
hypothesis A, another by hypothesis B, and so on. This is the
piecemeal way in which Mr Saltmarsh deals with my case. But in
addition to this failing to supply an alternative hypothesis for the
most important part of the case, the intrusion feature, he does not
even consider the case-as-a-whole. I regard the logical seriousness
of this failure as very great indeed.
Finally, Mr Saltmarsh states that in this matter, " Apodeictic
proof is quite impossible; conviction or plausibility is subjective ".
I agree. In quite the same way (though not the same degree) the
remark applies to the question of Lamarckian inheritance, the
planetesimal hypothesis, localization of function in cortical areas
of the brain, or the corpuscular theory of light. But the fact that
conviction is, and must be, subjective does not mean that psychical
research must forever be a matter of individual prejudice and
idiosyncrasy. Biologists will determine the value of the Lamarckian
hypothesis, not by " individual idiosyncrasy " but by improved
methods and experiments, and accumulated results of varied
character and condition. And psychic research students will
determine the value of the survival hypothesis by the same general
means. If Mr Saltmarsh were to persuade me of his essential
rightness, I shall despair for science, not only in the field we are
discussing, but in every field in which such subjective factors as
"antecedent acceptability", "plausibility", "individual idiosyn-
crasy ", and the like are possibly present in any degree. And in what
field are they not ?
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1933
I believe that most critical students of psychical research will
agree with me that the subject has its full opportunity to become
scientific, and that final judgment on all its hypothesis, free from
antecedent prejudice and idiosyncrasy, is an ultimate possibility and
an objective. How long this may require and how difficult it may be,
are aside from the point. How large a factor of personal prejudice
we have to deal with is also not our point. There is no reason why
we cannot progress here as in other fields—and ultimately reach the
relative clarity and security obtained in other scientific advances.
Thus alone can we progress beyond the blind faith and " individual
idiosyncrasy » of our fathers. Yours, etc., j B Rhine.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —Mr Saltmarsh suggests, in his interesting letter to the
Journal (xxviii. 86ff.), that in the case of mediumistic communica-
tions, a character is built up in the mind of the medium or the sitter
which behaves in a manner analogous to that in which the characters
of a novelist or biographer behave. In support of this theory, Mr
Saltmarsh suggests that "it is very unusual for an ostensible
communicator to get a clear, coherent message through the medium
at his first appearance ". This has not been my experience, nor, so
far as I know, is it that of some of my friends who take sittings :
the complaint is, rather, that first sittings are often good, and are
not followed up by sittings equally good. My personal experience is
as follows : At my first sitting with Mrs Leonard, my Communicator,
"Dora*', gave evidence not only of personal identity, but of the
ability to give test material that is, I think, in no way inferior to
that of the material she has given at later sittings, though there is
rather less in the way of quantity. My first sitting with Mrs Brittain
(which was my first with any professional medium), and my first
sitting with Miss V. Ortner (Mrs Warren Elliott) were, also, I think,
well up to the average that one gets with these mediums. These
communications contain material that is quite definite and veridical,
and the sittings were both striking in certain respects.
I understand from Mr Besterman that this is one of the points he
is examining in his study of the Leonard records, and that he is
provisionally of the same opinion as myself in regard to it.
Yours, etc.,
W_ g_ iRVING.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —When I read Mr Saltmarsh's able letter in the June issue
of our journal it occurred to me that it might be worth while to
report three experiences I have had which bear on the point men-
October 1933 Correspondence 129
tioned in that letter. He refers to the fact that the introduction of
an "alien" influence into a mediumistic sitting requires to be
explained. On one occasion I had a sitting made by appointment
with Mrs Brittain, with the object of getting some evidence for a
man (I knew only by correspondence) concerning his wife who had
died. The medium knew this was my object in this proxy sitting.
At the outset, however, she said that someone wished to speak to me.
A name was given, and whilst I was considering to whom it might
belong, details were added which identified the man who claimed to
be communicating, and who said he wished to thank me for helping
his wife. I was then surprised by the additional statement that he
had been an unkind husband ; in forcible language he intimated
that he had been miserable but was now happy.
I had become acquainted with the wife of this man some time
after she had become a widow, and as she rarely mentioned her
husband I had never asked anything about him. Our corres-
pondence was chiefly connected with psychical research and the
evidence for survival. I shrank from telling her about this unex-
pected experience as I thought it might be a mistake and therefore
painful, but I felt that I must not withhold it, as, if it were true, it
might comfort her. I discovered that it was quite true. This lady
had once had a sitting with Mrs Brittain but she assured me that on
that occasion her husband was not mentioned.
Whose subliminal consciousness could be responsible for this
"alien" influence with its intensely human quality, and wholly
unexpected introduction ?
Mr Saltmarsh refers to a case in which a husband appeared to be
aware of the fact that his wife had a tumour, and he thinks it quite
possible that the subconscious knowledge of the wife could account
for this message she received.
In 1920 I had a trance sitting with Miss Naomi Bacon. Before
passing out of the trance she pointed to her breast and said :
" You
will be healed of the trouble here ". This seemed so irrelevant that
it rather annoyed me. The preceding interview had been so im-
pressive that I regretted that it should close with a statement which
seemed meaningless. I was not aware of having any " trouble " in
the region indicated. Six years later, however, I was hurried into
hospital for a very serious operation at that spot, which was quite
successful.
If my subconscious mind can be held responsible for this know-
ledge of my condition, can it also have known that I should be
healed of the trouble \ No one could normally predict that.
The third point in Mr Saltmarsh's letter to which I would like to
refer is his statement that the first manifestation at a sitting was
usually weak and that the personality may therefore be gradually
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1933
built, so to speak, out of the memories of the sitter telepathetically
imparted to the medium.
I have been successful in many proxy sittings in which I had no
memories of the person who claimed to communicate. In one
particular instance, I had never seen the widow on whose behalf I
had the sitting and I practically knew nothing about her. The
result of the first sitting was, however, very impressive to her and
her step-father, who had asked me to help her ; the second was also
very full of evidential matter, though she thought the first the best.
The third sitting was almost a failure (the medium was fatigued).
When I held the third sitting I knew much more about the widow
as I had corresponded with her at some length and yet the person-
ality manifested very indistinctly on that occasion.
I agree with Mr Saltmarsh that, on whatever theory, one would
expect communications to be easier in subsequent sittings, but this
has not generally been my experience. My best sittings have been
when the medium's mind was a tabula rasa, i.e., she or he were
entirely ignorant of the personality purporting to control and in
some instances, when I also was nearly equally ignorant.
Yours, etc.,
Helen Alex. Dallas.
Communications of a Personal Kind.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —In the summary appearing in the April number of the
Journal dealing with the paper read by me on 25 January last, I
notice a rather unfortunate omission. Particular importance
attaches to the fact that, in this case, corroborative testimony was
obtained concerning the accuracy with which these scripts repro-
duced the personalities of the alleged communicators.
I read a statement from my brother-in-law testifying to his
belief in the authenticity of these scripts. The statement is as
follows :
" Marvellous ! The script is the most wonderful thing I
have ever read. The personality of everyone is unmistakable. I
have read and re-read it many times."
This case is one in which it has fortunately been proved possible
to obtain corroborative details from an individual intimately
connected with the alleged communicators. The particular interest
that attaches to this corroboration is that Major Forbes testifies to
the accurate reproduction of the personalities of deceased persons.
Clearly, the reproduction of personality furnishes the most con-
vincing of all evidence of survival. Latent telepathy or any other
theory of a like nature can hardly be considered to account for it.
Yours, etc.,
E B gibbes .
October 1933 Reviews 131
EEVIEWS.
Whately Carington, The Death of Materialism, 8vo, pp. 256.
London : George Allen and Unwin Ltd., 1933. Price 10s. net.
Mr Whately Carington sets out to slay the dragon Materialism
and it must be admitted that, even if that obstinate creature be
so disobliging as to remain alive, he delivers it some pretty hard
knocks.
The opening chapters are devoted to an examination of the
underlying non-logical foundations of belief, a matter which it is
well to emphasise yet one to which too much importance may be
attached. It is laid down that sentiment of all kinds must be
rigorously excluded. As an ideal to be striven for this is justifiable,
but it is surely unattainable. In a matter such as this, where the
deepest concerns and the most powerful emotions are involved, it
is asking too much that the cold impersonal attitude of the mathe-
matician should be maintained. Conclusions can only be tentative
seeing that they are based on the estimation of evidence, much of
which is of a general and highly nebulous character. These estima-
tions are bound to be influenced by sentiment, preconceived ideas
and the whole past history of the estimator.
The case for the materialist from the physical point of view is
fairly stated and the author has little difficulty in showing it to be
without foundation. He discusses the bearing of Heisenberg's
Principle and rightly, as I think, pours cold water on the enthusiasm
of those who have claimed it as a powerful ally for idealism.
I think that Mr Carington is undoubtedly well advised to reserve
his heavy artillery for the biologist and psychologist ; the physicist,
as such, is hardly interested in the question and if he be an active
protagonist of materialism it is when he is operating outside his
own province. But for those whose subject is life in any form it is
a matter of the highest import.
The attack on the mechanistic biologist opens with a somewhat
elaborate argument, based on mathematical probability formulas,
by which it is sought to show that consciousness is a " public fact
"
in the sense that it is " a common belief in which all can share ".
As directly experienced it is, of course, private. It is in Chapter IV
that the author really gets to grips with the problem, viz., whether
all behaviour is ultimately explicable in terms of reflexes.
While accepting the teaching of the mechanistic biologists as
regards conditioned reflexes in cases of relatively simple behaviour
such as that of Pavlov's dogs, he suggests that the laws they have
deduced therefrom break down with the increase of complexity.
He draws an analogy with the failure of Newtonian law to cover
cases involving very high velocities or temperature and very great or
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1933
very small distances. He distinguishes these characteristics as
" predicates ", contrasting them with properties of objects. Roughly,
a predicate is whatever can be said about an object which has nothing
to do with the kind of object it is. Further, public predicates are
distinguished from those which are matters of private judgment.
Classical law, under which term he includes the laws deduced
by the mechanistic biologists, fails in cases where some public
predicate is present in a very high degree.
From these considerations the following formula is evolved.
" Consciousness is a correlate of that public predicate known as
complexity of organisation."
On this basis it is claimed that the opinion that consciousness
may play a part in the determination of behaviour may be held
without discontinuity with the laws derived from the study of con-
ditioned reflexes.
Part II deals with the problem from the metaphysical standpoint.
The consciousness-matter antithesis is discussed and the author
cuts the Gordian knot by denying the reality of matter—the " Ding
an sich ". Consciousness is real, matter is only a " fiction ", "a
provisional auxiliary construct ", useful, in fact indispensable for
our ordinary commerce with life, but possessing no metaphysical
validity of its own. He accepts the philosophy of Vaihinger as
propounded in that writer's well known work, " The philosophy of
as if ".
The next part of the book opens with a useful discussion of the
nature of proof based on evidence and this serves as an introduction
to the subject of Paragnosis, a term which covers practically all
supernormal psychical phenomena. The term is selected, or perhaps
I should say coined, for the sake of its wide generality. For this
special purpose Mr Carington requires only that knowledge should be
acquired in a supernormal manner, whether it be by telepathy,
clairvoyance, etc., does not matter. He takes telepathy, however,
as his example for demonstration purposes. The point at issue is
how one mind can act on another regardless of intervening distance.
The wave theory is discussed and rejected and " action at a distance"
in general is examined. The conclusion arrived at is that " location
in itself " shares the fate of non-existence with the " Ding an sich ".
*"
Telepathy comes about, not by the transmission of ideas, but by
community of consciousness."
Here we reach the culminating point of the enquiry, from com-
munity of consciousness " we must infer a Universal Consciousness
of which individual consciousnesses are fragments, off shoots, local
centres ..." and thus we are led into the very heart of mysticism.
The whole argument is admirably summed up by the author
himself in four points which he claims to have established.
October 1933 Reviews 133
1 . the liability of classical law to breakdown.
2. the elimination of the Thing-in-itself.
3. the recognition of the fundamental unity of consciousness.
4. the insistence that the conception of an external world acting
on consciousness must be replaced by that of mutations of con-
sciousness as the only reality.
If these things be so it seems that all that is left for materialism
is to choose a fitting epitaph and get itself buried with all convenient
rapidity.
But an uneasy doubt remains in my mind. I cannot help feeling
that even if materialism be dead, some of its offsprings, more dan-
gerous because more insidious and plausible, may survive. Mr
Carington is an avowed determinist and I cannot see that there is
much to choose between a deterministic system from which gross
matter has been eliminated and one based solely on matter.
I can hardly agree with him that the libertarian view which
accepts some measure of freewill is "no more than the product of
vanity". One need only mention the name of Henri Bergson to
refute this opinion. Although it cannot be said that the controversy
is by any means settled, there is undoubtedly a strong case in favour
of freewill as is shown, for example, in Mr Charles A. Campbell's
Scepticism and Construction.
It is, I take it, no part of the business of the reviewer to indulge
in detailed criticism, but I cannot refrain from the remark that if
the Ding-an-sich be eliminated and mutations of consciousness be
the only reality, it is somewhat hard to see how consciousness can be
the correlate of complexity of organisation. What is it that is or-
ganised complexly ? Consciousness cannot be the correlate of itself.
The final conclusion is frankly mystical and as such will not be
assimilable by a good many readers, among whom I fear that
I must count myself. This is not a criticism. The fault lies, not with
the author, but with those who cannot apprehend mystical ideas.
Still, however this may be, Mr Whately Carington has made a
valuable contribution towards the solution of the controversy,
for, granted his fundamental assumptions and from his individual
standpoint, he has put up a very strong case.
The book possesses a greater degree of lucidity than is usually
found in works of this character ; it is easy and pleasant to read,
there are copious illustrations which assist the comprehension of the
arguments and if the " verbal caracoles " in which he indulges so
freely may possibly be distasteful to some of his ultra-serious
readers, I, at least, appreciate a little leavening of mild flippancies
as a welcome lightening of an otherwise rather indigestible meal.
They are the raisins in the duff, the jam with the powder.
H. F. Saltmarsh.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1933
Dr A. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, Die Phdnomene des
Mediums Rudi Schneider. Edited by Gabriele Freifrau von
Schrenck-Notzing. Preface by Professor Eugen Bleuler.
8vo, pp. viii. 170, 19 portraits and ill. Berlin, Leipzig
:
Verlag Walter de Gruyter and Co., 1933.
It is satisfactory that the long awaited records of Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing's sittings with Rudi Schneider have at last been
published. Unfortunately, however, they have been published in
a most inadequate manner. Of the eighty-eight sittings held with
Rudi Schneider by the Baron, records of only thirty-four are here
published. And even these records are clearly printed only in
part (cp. pp. iv-v), without indication of the portions omitted and
without commentary. This seems to be neither here nor there.
Either the entire records should have been printed as left by Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing or a competent person should have been
commissioned to compile an independent account of the sittings
based on the original records. In short, while the material we have
now been given is better than nothing, it adds little material of a
definite nature to our knowledge of Rudi Schneider's mediumship.
We venture to hope that the Baroness von Schrenck-Notzing, in
view of the importance this mediumship has attained since the
Baron's death, may yet be persuaded to give adequate publication
to her husband's records. And we venture further to extend this
appeal to the documents relating to other mediums also left un-
published by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
Th. B.
Fox-Taylor Automatic Writings 1869-1892. Unabridged record.
Edited by Sarah E. L. Taylor. Preface by W. G. Longworthy
Taylor. 4to, pp. x. 400, 6 facsimiles and ill. Privately
printed 1932.
This substantial volume reproduces in full the text of automatic
mirror-writing done by Katie Fox (Mrs Jencken) in sittings with
the Taylor family from 1869 to 1892. The script does not appear
to contain any evidential material, but it is at least free from the
pretentiously didactic matter that fills so many volumes of this
kind : the communications nearly all purport to come from deceased
members of the family. Their chief interest for the student
naturally lies in their production by a medium who is so important
in the history of psychical research as Katie Fox.
The book is unfortunately a mere reprint of the original transcript,
and no attempt has been made to edit and index it. It may be of
interest, therefore, to note that physical phenomena are constantly
recorded. Such phenomena as raps, fights, the pulling of garments,
direct writing, apports, occurred. More unusual incidents were the
October 1933 Reviews 135
production of direct drawings. No information is given as to the
conditions in which the sittings were held, but it is clear from
incidental remarks (as on pp. 9, 18, 21) that they took place in the
dark. Suspicious incidents, unfortunately, are not lacking : such
are the constant movements the sitters were instructed to make
about the room. Such again is the loss of Frankie's portrait shortly
before a supernormal picture of him was obtained (p. 24).
Th. B.
La Tombe Parle. Le Genie Hugolien ressucite. Edited by Henri
Azam. 8vo, pp. 429. Paris : J. Peyronnet et Cie., 1932.
This bulky volume contains automatic writings by a Mme D.,
purporting to come from a spirit called Symbole, who claims to
have been the inspirer of Victor Hugo. The content of the com-
munications is of little interest, but the form of those in verse does
from time to time echo the rhythms of Hugo. The reflection often
occurs to one, however, in reading automatic verse, that if such
verse often resembles the writings of certain poets, it is perhaps
because many of those writings are themselves to all intents and
purposes automatic (cp. Aldous Huxley, Texts and Pretexts, p. 9).
In the present case, as we are told next to nothing of the medium,
not even her name, it is not possible to form an opinion.
Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science. Ltd.,
July 1933.
S. G. Donaldson, Five Experiments with Miss Kate Goligher.
[This brief article is welcome for more than one reason. It is grati-
fying that Miss Goligher (now Mrs S. G. Donaldson) is again giving
sittings, and it is gratifying that infra-red photography is being
applied to mediumistic investigation. The results so far obtained
are decidedly unconvincing as reported ; but it is most desirable
that the work should continue on the same excellent lines]. —Dr
Nandor Fodor, Two Bodies for one Soul. [Concluded].—[S. De
Brath], The Law of Spiritual Consequence. [To be continued].
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 1933.
July. Samuel E. Anderson, Psyche, the Immortal. [Parts II.
and III.]. —Le Livre des Revenants. [Part XVII.].
August. Stewart Edward White, An Example of Mystic Medi-
urnship. [An introspective account of her mediumistic processes by
an anonymous medium].—Anne Manning Bobbins, Psychic
Research a Personal Matter.—Le Livre des Revenants. [Part VIII].
September. Frederick Bligh Bond, The Present Status of Psvchic
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobkk1933
Research in Spiritualism. [The writer urges that the subliminal
is not personal but racial]. —[F. B. Bond], The Inspiration of
Glastonbury.—Samuel B. Anderson, Psyche, the Immortal. [Part
IV.].
Revue Metapsychique, July-August 1933.
Dr E. Osty, On Listening to the Dowsers. [Impressions of the
dowsers' Congress held in Paris in June of this year]. —E. Pascal,
The Apparitions of Beauraing. [Another of this writer's valuable
studies of contemporary religious beliefs in the supernormal]. —C.
De Vesme, What we can learn from the " Old New " in the Problem
of the Dowsing-Rod. [A discussion of some of the older writings on
dowsing].—Ch. Quartier, A New Series of Experiments with Rudi
Schneider. [A translation of considerable extracts from Lord
Charles Hope's recent report].
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, July
1933.
L. Vandermeulen, Homage to our venerated President-Founder
M. Aime Rutot. [We record with regret the recent death of this
distinguished anthropologist].—M. Schaerer, The World Crisis in
relation to Science and Psychical Research.
La Ricerca Psichica, 1933.
May. Remo Fedi, Predestination and Precognition.—The Problem
of Premonition and the Theory of " Psychoboulia ". [A discussion
between Dr Tanagra and Sig. Servadio].—[A prize of 1000 Lire is
offered for the best essay on the Old Testament conception of life
after death].
June. S. Freud, Dreams and Occultism. [Translated from the
Neue Folge der Vorlesungen].—E. Bozzano, On the Manner in which
Mediumistic Communications are produced.—G. Piolo, " Dia-
psychics ". —For and Against Physical Phenomena. [A letter from
Dr Prince, with a reply by Sig. Servadio].
July. A. Bruers, The Crisis of Psychical Research. [Comments
on recent controversies, which it seems a pity to exaggerate. These
things have a way of adjusting themselves, as witnesses the history
of psychical research]. —R. Fedi, The Supernormal in Rome of the
Pagan Period.—S. Freud, Dreams and Occultism. [Continued].—
G. Piolo, " Diapsychics ". [Concluded].
August. Ernest Bozzano, The Psychical Experiences of a
Minister of the Church of England. [A long review of a recent
English book].—S. Freud, Dreams and Occultism. [Conclusion].
—
Giovanni Piolo, Aime Rutot and his energetic Conception of the
Mind. Th. B.
No. 499.—Vol. XXVIII November 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, zg November 1933, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF M. STEFAN
OSSOWIECKI "
WILL BE READ BY
Mr THEODORE BESTERMAN
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Researclt, November 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
Cannon, Alexander, M.D., Ph.D., L.C.C. Mental Hospital Service,
Colney Hatch, London, N. 11.
Crunden, Mrs W. M., c/o Messrs Crunden and Martin Mfg. Co.,
St Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Dupre, Pierre V. C. W., The Firs, Spaniards Road, London, N.W. 3.
Elliott, Warren, 48 Basing Hill, London, N.W. 11.
Fraser-Harris, Professor D. F., The Athenaeum Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
Johnson, Miss G. M., 17 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
Librarian, The Free Library of Philadelphia, Middle City Station,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Naumburg, Miss Margaret, c/o Messrs Straus & Kenyon, 51 East
42 Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Nicholson, Dr C. R., 37 Greystoke Lodge, Hanger Hill, London,
W. 5.
Nijinsky, Madame, c/o Mr Chaw, 50 Church Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Wright, H. R., 15b St Mildred's Road, London, S.E. 12.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 309th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 September 1933, at 4.30 p.m.,
The President in the Chair. There were also present : The Earl
of Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.,
Dr T. W. Mitchell, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mr S. G. Soal and Miss Nea
Walker ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Investigation Officer, and
Miss Isabel Newton.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
OBITUARY.
A. R. Bonus.
We regret to record the death of Mr A. R. Bonus, who joined the
Society in 1919. Mr Bonus, a retired Indian Civil Servant and a
writer on historical subjects, took an active interest in the Society's
work ; he reported several cases to the Secretary, and also subscribed
liberally to our Funds.
November 1933 Correspondence 139
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of The Journal.
The Investigation of Mediumistic Controls.
Sir,—Mr Hereward Carrington 1
has reported significant differences
between Mrs Garrett in her normal state and her Control " Uvani
"
when tested with the word association test, using reaction time and
psychogalvanic reflexes as indicators. An independent investigation
by Mr Besterman and myself (as yet unpublished) appears to con-
firm this finding.
Anticipating a full discussion of these results, I wish to suggest
that a substantially crucial extension of the technique would
consist of testing the (ostensibly) same Control working through two
or more different mediums. If significant resemblances were found
between two such versions of the Control, it would be scarcely
possible to regard either as a secondary personality of the medium
concerned, and the Control's status as an autonomous entity would
be established to a very high degree of probability.
Yours, etc.,
Whately Carington.
REVIEWS.
E. Osty, " Telepathie Spontanee et Transmission de Pensee experi-
mentale ", Revue Metapsychique, July/August 1932-January/
February 1933.
In the January-February number of the Revue Metapsychique Dr
Osty concludes an admirable survey of our present knowledge of
telepathy in all its varying modes and aspects of manifestation.
This brilliant and fascinating study by one of the leading psychical
researchers of our time should be read by all who desire to know
what fight the best French experimentation in recent years has
thrown upon the problem of supernormal knowledge.
We, in England, as Osty repeatedly points out, are perpetually
hampered in our study of sensitives by tne spiritualistic atmosphere
in which most of our work is carried out. With the spiritualistic
medium the true significance of the process of supernormal cognition
is often obscured by his inveterate tendency to dramatise fragments
of information received probably from a living mind in the form of
conversations with the departed. Dr Osty has had the advantage
of studying excellent subjects, like Mme Morel, who have never
come under the influence of spiritualistic ideas. When a sitter is
1
Bulletin No. 1 of The American Psychical Institute.
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
taken to Mme Morel she will often give very accurate and detailed
information about the sitter's past and present affairs and sometimes
detailed descriptions of the sitter's friends and relatives who are
still living. Give Mme Morel a handkerchief belonging to a living
friend and she will describe the personal appearance, habits, occu-
pation, etc., of this absent living person just as precisely as our best
English mediums will do when they claim to communicate with a
dead person's spirit. But let Mme Morel handle an object associated
with someone who is dead, and she will describe that dead person
with exactly the same sort of detail as if he were living except that
she will see no future for him. But, it is important to observe, she
will make no claims to be in communication with the departed
person ; she will have no message for his relatives, nor anything to
say about his present state. She will simply describe him objectively
as a person who has once lived but is now dead.
A long and persevering study of Mme Morel and other sensitives
leads Osty to the inevitable conclusion that whether the medium
receives information about a dead person or a living person, the
underlying supernormal processes are essentially the same. The
dramatic conversations with the spirits, the Controls, Guides, etc.,
are so much subconscious window-dressing which the mind of the
medium creates in order to satisfy her sitters, the majority of whom
visit her with the express purpose of talking with their dead friends.
Dr Osty devotes his first article to a brief historical resume of
past experiments in the voluntary transmission of thought from one
person to another. He gives an account of the various individual
and mass experiments that have been undertaken in America,
England and France in attempts to demonstrate the direct trans-
mission of thought, including those of Warcollier, Gardner Murphy,
and myself, and he concludes with perfect justice that the power to
receive telepathically a thought which an agent tries voluntarily to
transfer is not possessed by the generality of mankind. Neverthe-
less this kind of telepathic perception is possible in the case of a few
rare persons like Mme Kahl or (we may add) Mrs Upton Sinclair,
who seem indubitably capable of reading thoughts which an agent
is holding in his mind or has been thinking about a moment or two
ago. Osty describes several interesting and irreproachable experi-
ments with Mme Kahl, and his testimony, added to that of Mr
Besterman and M. Warcollier, leaves little doubt that Mme Kahl at
any rate really possesses such a faculty. Dr Osty, however, points
out that apparently only those subjects can exercise the faculty who
are capable of putting themselves into some kind of trance or slight
self-hypnosis.
Osty says that some spiritualistic writers have " travestied my
thought " by seeing in my recent failure to transmit ideas " under
November 1933 Reviews 141
the worst possible " conditions to 600 people, an argument in favour
of the theory that mediums obtain their information from the
spirits of the dead and not from the minds of the living. I agree
with Osty that this argument, which has been used by at least one
writer of repute, is entirely fallacious. All that my experiments
show is that the voluntary transmission of thought is rare, but it is
the involuntary transfer of ideas that we are concerned with in our
studies of mediums. Because the masses of mankind show no evi-
dence of receiving telepathic impressions from their fellows, it does
not follow that when we meet with individuals like Mrs Leonard,
who possess undoubted supernormal powers, these rare individuals
only succeed by the aid of the discarnate or derive their knowledge
from the minds of the dead. For the experiments of Dr Osty
demonstrate in the clearest possible manner that sensitives of non-
spiritualistic culture like Mme Morel and S. Ossowiecki in the vast
majority of instances actually do derive their supernormal indica-
tions from the minds of living people, either present or at a distance.
In the case of Ossowiecki, Osty shows that the evidence strongly
favours the view that when this sensitive divines the contents of a
sealed envelope, it is not by any kind of X-ray clairvoyance of the
concealed material that he obtains his supernormal cognitions, but
that he proceeds by using the envelope as a " rapport " object to put
him into touch with the mind of the distant writer, who probably is
not thinking of the subject at the moment. Apart from Ossowiecki's
subjective sensations about the way in which his faculty works, the
proofs that the above view is the correct one are twofold. Osso-
wiecki often adds to his vision of the contents of the envelope a
detailed description of the personal appearance and environment of
the absent writer, and on occasion he has been known correctly to
divine, not the actual message inside the envelope, but another
message which the writer had first intended to enclose but had after-
wards discarded. In the second place, M. Ossowiecki persistently
fails to read the envelopes prepared by certain individuals, but
generally succeeds with other persons. It has always seemed to me
that this last argument is peculiarly fatal when applied to the claims
of spiritualistic mediums that they obtain the bulk of their informa-
tion from the spirits of the dead. If it were merely a question of a
spirit communicating information to the subconscious mind of a
medium, why is it that sitter A., who is as well provided with
deceased friends as sitter B., is yet entirely unable to obtain any
satisfactory evidence of their existence, no matter what medium
he visits, while sitter B. can get abundant evidence ? Is not Osty's
explanation the true one. namely that the bulk of the supernormal
information received by B. is the result of an inter-mental colla-
boration between his mind and that of the psychic, and that B.
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
succeeds because certain strata of his mind are more permeable than is
the case with A. ? I conjecture that A. would fail equally with a non-
spiritualistic sensitive like Mme Morel and B. would probably succeed.
The third article [November-December 1932] is the most infor-
mative and illuminating part of Osty's notable memoir, embodying
as it does a large number of really first-rate cases taken from Osty's
long and varied experience with French sensitives such as Mme
Morel, Mile Laplace and Mile de Berly. Certain of these cases we
were already familiar with in the Supernormal Faculties in Man,
but there are here published a number of new studies which seem to
be no less striking and conclusive. Many of these recitals are of
dramatic and absorbing human interest. They show, in the first
place, how unsafe it is for persons who have mislaid their jewels or
their friends, and for detectives in the pursuit of missing husbands
or daughters, to put their trust in the pronouncements of even the
best mediums. For it seems that sensitives only rarely get into
touch with the real unknown facts of the case, but are much more
prone to reflect, sometimes with startling verisimilitude, the mental
conjectures of the persons who come to consult them. Thus a lady
who suspected that her jewel had been stolen, was told by the
sensitive (who had no reason to suspect even that there was a jewel
in question) that the jewel had been stolen ; an exact description
was given of the trinket and of the circumstances of its disappearance,
the persons whom the lady suspected, etc. ; but a year or two later
the lady found that she had merely mislaid her jewel and that there
had been no robbery. But though the actual statements about the
fate of the missing object or friend proved in the last analysis to be
totally false, the consultants were invariably deceived in the early
stages of the inquiry by the ease with which the medium took up
the scent and by the wealth of detailed knowledge which she dis-
played concerning the circumstances of the disappearance and the
persons involved.
The story of the countess on whose behalf Dr Osty consulted Mme
Morel with regard to the claims of a girl who pretended to be the
Grand Duchess Anastasie, and who claimed to have escaped the
massacre of the Russian Imperial family, is of absorbing interest.
In this case Mme Morel described with astonishing detail not what
actually happened at the massacre, but what the impostor wished
people to believe had happened. It would appear that the mere
handling of a dried flower which had belonged to the pretended
Grand Duchess sufficed in order to put Mme Morel into mental
rapport with the mind of the distant impostor, who must have been
totally unaware that she was ventilating her case in this unexpected
way through a Paris medium.
Very rare indeed are the cases studied by Osty in which it is
November 1933 Reviews 143
necessary to suppose that the source of the information given was
the memory of a dead person. He does, however, mention one such
experience—that which led to the finding of the dead body of an old
man who was lost in a wood—but as this case is fully described in
his book, Supernormal Faculties in Man, most readers will be already
familiar with it. To account for such rare experiences as this, is it
necessary to suppose like E. Bozzano that the surviving spirit of the
dead man himself communicated the information to the medium,
since, so far as we know, the facts were within the knowledge of no
living person ? I do not think so. Because a person ceases to five
we must not assume that his past mental states cease to exist or to
be accessible to a psychic sensitive. Psychical research is slowly
teaching us that from the plane on which the sensitive works, the
present moment has less significance than either the past or the
future moments of an individual life. We believe the present to be
real because in it we enjoy and suffer and make contact with life,
and most men believe that their past mental states must exist some-
where because they can to some extent be evoked by memory. Why
then does it become difficult to beheve that a man's past mental
states continue to exist after he is dead ? Chiefly, I think, because
most men have not yet freed themselves from the theory that
memory is merely a faint resuscitation of impressions made upon
the nervous matter of the brain. But the moment we abandon this
materialistic hypothesis, for which there seems very little evidence,
we ought to have no difficulty in supposing that a man's past mental
states exist even when he, as a personality, has ceased to five. A
psychic medium may have access to these unconscious mental
states of a hving person. Those of us who, like myself, accept pre-
vision of the individual fife by sensitives as a fact, must go further
and suppose that a man's future mental states are as truly existent
at any present moment as his past mental states. From this stand-
point our mental life is like a dark road mapped out along its length
with innumerable details along which our consciousness moves like
a car with only a rear fight. But on the dark track that lies ahead
psychic sensitives occasionally flash their spotlights, giving us frag-
mentary ghmpses tantalising and uncertain.
In the last section of his paper Osty rejects the naive beliefs of
ordinary spiritualism with its anthropomorphic hereafter, but he
does not rule out the possibility that the transcendental conscious-
ness in man, which is unfettered by time or space, may not exist _
in
an eternal present. The puny individual self of everyday life which
can be extinguished by drugs or alcohol, or radically changed by
disease, is, Osty believes, doomed to perish. Personally I agree
with Osty in this, and I for one have not sufficient vanity or self-love
to wish to preserve what H. G. Wells calls " this sharp-witted
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
ferret ". At the same time I recognise that if the power of forming
mental images is not dependent on the structural integrity of the
brain, there seems no reason why we should not go on having mental
representations after physical death, and these images would neces-
sarily be memory images of the objects we had seen in life. Such a
mental existence, divorced from the stimulation of the senses, would
partake of the nature of a pointless and passionless dream. It would,
I imagine, be very much like an ordinary dream from which there
was no awakening to reality. You can only give reality to the
ordinary spiritualist's conception of the future life by making all
sorts of hypothetical assumptions about the existence of an " etheric
"
body, and until the spiritualists can produce some serious evidence
of the existence of such an entity I am afraid the after-death de-
scriptions of their seers will leave Dr Osty unconvinced.
I am not quite sure how far future research will justify Osty's
main contention that the production of supernormal knowledge is
the result of an inter-mental collaboration of an intelligent kind
between two human beings on some supernormal plane of thought.
That the great majority of cases can be explained on this assumption
is certainly true. It seems to be true in the case of Ossowiecki, but
what about the recent book-tests of Th. Besterman obtained by Mrs
Leonard and Judge Dahl's daughter ?
I am generally sceptical about book-tests, but these recent experi-
ments, I must admit, have shaken my scepticism. The results go
far beyond what chance coincidence could be expected to produce,
and I think it extremely improbable that Besterman was tricked in
any way. What is the source of the medium's information in such
cases ? Is it the mind of someone who has read the book ? If so,
how can the book serve as a rapport " object to put the psychic
into touch with this mind ? I can understand a personal article,
such as a glove or a jewel, serving as a link, but a book, new from the
printing-press, and which may not have been read by anyone who
has handled it, is another matter. And yet, when we consider the
problem, is the role played by the book really more complex than
the role of the empty chair which in Osty's famous experiment
served to link up Pascal Forthuny with the distant person who was
half an hour later to occupy that same chair ? In the latter case the
source of the information was undoubtedly the mind of the future
occupant of the chair, and if this is so it seems quite possible that
the book does serve in some mysterious way as a rapport object
linking the medium to the memory of some reader.
I could continue writing about Dr Osty's stimulating and thought-
provoking memoir, but I trust I have said sufficient to induce my
fellow-members to read for themselves the rich records of observa-
tion and experiment which it contains. S. G. Soal.
November 1933 Reviews 145
Sir Oliver Lodge, My Philosophy. 8vo, pp. 318. London
:
Ernest Benn, Ltd., 1933. Price 21s. net.
This book, which the author describes as " probably my final
pronouncement ... as to what I think of things in general ", will
appeal chiefly to those who like a good strong substantial peg on
which to hang their thinking.
Sir Oliver is, of course, well known as the staunchest and most
eminent—as he is likely to be the last—upholder of the doctrine of
an objective Ether of Space. This, he tells us, has been his life
study, and some two-thirds of the book are devoted to a defence of
the doctrine. He is equally well known as a convinced survivalist,
and he believes that in the Ether is to be found the common factor,
as it were, of the material and spiritual worlds. His view is that the
material body which serves " the psychical or mental need ... is
made of matter and used by soul. So also the pneumatical body is
one used by spirit and made of X. My hypothesis is that partially
and approximately X = Ether. This view . . . does not . . . claim
any direct association of mind with matter : it claims association
with an intermediate substance. My hypothesis is that spirit
primarily inhabits the ether, uses it, and acts on it. . . . Thus
through the intervention of ether, spirit can be brought into relation
with matter, indirectly : and the intervening mechanism ... is the
etheric or spiritual body "
(pp. 221-2).
This sounds very lucid and encouraging. Spirit, Ether, Matter ;
X : Y : : Y : Z ;
Spirit is to Ether as Ether is to Matter, or some-
thing very like this. The trouble begins when we ask what Spirit,
Ether and Matter are—and answer comes there none.
It distresses me that I, whose knowledge of physics is relatively
negligible, should be compelled by a harsh editorial decree to cross
swords with Sir Oliver Lodge on a point like this ; but honesty
compels me to say frankly that I do not believe in a substantial
Ether and, a fortiori, do not believe that the view quoted above is
the proper way of representing the relation between what we call
mind or spirit and what we call matter. Such a remark would be a
mere impertinence if it were left unexpanded and unjustified, but it
fortunately seems possible to indicate where the trouble has arisen
and to suggest an alternative view not wholly incompatible with Sir
Oliver's own.
The key to the deadlock seems to lie in a passage (pp. 122 et seqq.)
in which Sir Oliver takes Sir James Jeans to task for supporting the
view that " the only proper objects of study (are) the sensations that
the objects of the external universe produce on our senses ". I
should not put it quite like this myself, partly because there are
other constituents of our mental content besides sensations which are
highly important, e.g., memories, and partly because it begs the
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
question by assuming that there really are " objects of the external
world ", which is the whole point at issue. This Sir Oliver clearly
sees, for he instantly asks how, in this case, " can we gain a know-
ledge of the external world ?
" The strict answer is that we don't.
The external world is created by us to account for the sensations,
etc., and to enable us to deal with them in an orderly manner. I
know that this is a difficult conception to grasp, but it seems to be
inescapable, and I am sure that Sir Oliver would readily admit that,
strictly, neither he nor anyone else has ever experienced or can
experience anything directly except variations in his own conscious
content, and that, consequently, everything else is to some extent
derivative. Speaking for myself, I feel that Ether must be a
remoter derivative than matter—a kind of second order fiction, so
to speak—but I should be sorry to have to justify this ; so perhaps
we can meet on the ground that Ether is no less and no more " real
"
than Matter. The hope seems rather slender, however, for the only
meaning reasonably attachable to the word " real " seems to be
" conforming to definition ". We may compare Bosanquet's
dictum here that " Everything is real provided you do not take it
for more than it is ", and may illustrate by observing that a real pond
is the kind of thing you can get wet in, while a real mirage is not.
A " real " Ether, then, is merely one which conforms to definition
—
of Ether. It certainly does not conform to any accepted definition
of substance, and if we are to call it substantial we must find another
term for the class which includes cheese and ivory and platinum.
I see no reason myself why you should not postulate an entity
having any properties you please, provided they are not logically
incompatible, and those about which we usually complain where the
Ether is concerned, such as enormous density combined with im-
perceptibility, or the like, are not so ;
they are merely contrary to
experience. So far as this is concerned, the Ether seems to be very
much on a par with non-Euclidean Space or non-commutative
algebra, and it is a handy enough fictional tool to work with up to a
point. But the mere fact that most physicists nowadays have
discarded it in favour of less concrete conceptions does seem to
suggest that it has its limitations.
My own, alternative, view may be very briefly indicated as follows
:
Sir Arthur Eddington, discussing what he calls Relation Structure
{The Nature of the Physical World, Chapter XI), describes how the
fundamental entities of field physics may be derived from raw
material no more specialised than " relata ", " relations " and
" some kind of relation of likeness between some of the relations ",
the last being necessary because " otherwise there would be nothing
more to be said about the world than that everything in it was
utterly unlike everything else ".
November 1933 Reviews 147
I think it undeniable that no more general starting point could
be conceived ; for whether we are dealing with Energy, Momentum
and Stress or with the Persons of the Trinity, we must have relata of
some kind and relations of a sort between them. I think it follows
that, if anything at all is derivable from such material—as it is,
since the entities of physics are—then everything whatsoever must
be, in principle at least. That is to say, it is not inherent in the
nature of things, but the result of our lack of skill, that we cannot
derive from the same so general material the fundamental entities of
worlds other than physical, if these exist. In this connection it is
suggestive that in the physical application of the technique only one
of various possible methods of manipulation is adopted and, even so,
a good deal of what Eddington calls " lumber " has to be discarded
as irrelevant—to the physical world.
It seems to me helpful to think that the physical world consists
of those " modulations of consciousness " which are linked together
(related) in a particular way, namely that described by the laws of
physics, while the spiritual world consists of those which are linked
in another way, equally specifiable in principle although as yet
undetermined, but forming part of the same network.
I am inclined to think that thought along these lines is likely to
lead to more permanent results than Athanasian attempts to devise
some ambivalent intermediary between two mutually exclusive
categories.
But this is aiming very high, and it is probable that most people
will feel that the comparative imaginableness of Sir Oliver's
view more than compensates for any logical peccadilloes it may
involve.
Whately Carington.
Herbert Thurston, S.J., The Church and Spiritualism. 8vo,
pp. xxi. 384. Milwaukee : The Bruce Publishing Co., 1933.
Price §2.75.
Father Thurston's writings on psychical research and spiritualism
have been notable, as coming from a Roman Catholic and a Jesuit,
for their broad tolerance and their wide familiarity with the facts.
In this volume he has reprinted a series of his most valuable papers,
chiefly from The Month. Father Thurston maintains (p. xi), first,
" that genuine and inexplicable phenomena, even of the physical
order, do occur in the presence of certain exceptionally constituted
persons called '
mediums '
;
secondly, that for the most of mankind,
and notably for Catholics, spiritualistic practices, quite apart from
the Church's prohibition, are dangerous and altogether undesirable ;
and thirdly, that people have learned nothing from their attempted
intercourse with the spirits of the departed . . .
." It may be
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
doubted whether anybody outside the Roman Catholic Church will
fully accept all three of these propositions ; but any book from a
writer of Father Thurston's erudition deserves to be read with the
closest attention.
Th. B.
Bernard L. M. Ernst and Hereward Carrington, Houdini and
Conan Doyle: the story of a strange friendship. 8vo, pp. xiv.
255. London : Hutchinson, 1933. 12s. 6d. net.
Julian J. Proskauer, Spook Crooks. 8vo, pp. 288, 22 ill. London :
Selwyn and Blount [1933]. 12s. 6d. net.
It is indeed strange that two men, each with strong beliefs
opposed to those of the other, and widely different in their mode of
life, should have become friends, and that the friendship should have
lasted for several years. The authors tell the story by use of the
correspondence which has survived, with narrative to link up and
explain the letters, and preliminary sketches of the lives and beliefs
of Houdini and Doyle. The strain of Houdini's attacks on the
mediums and phenomena in which Doyle believed so strongly
finally brought the friendship to an end.
Houdini was a magician especially noted for his escapes from
locked rooms and from all types of bonds. These he held to be due
to skill and physical strength alone, but Conan Doyle was convinced
that they were done by the aid of supernatural powers. The sitting
given by Lady Doyle to Houdini, and his subsequent attempts at
automatic writing are fully described. It was the difference in their
versions and interpretations of this sitting which brought about a
coolness between Doyle and Houdini, and ultimately led to the end
of their friendship.
The second book, written by a prominent American magician,
is intended to warn the general public against dealings with so-
called fortune-tellers, clairvoyants, astrologers, and mediums.
Many stories are told of men and women who were ruined or driven
to suicide, after having paid large sums of money for the consolation
and communications received, or having entrusted their savings to
" mediums " who were to invest it according to the advice of the
" spirits ". Needless to say, they found that the money and the
mediums vanished together. In each case the mechanism of the
communications and answers to questions is revealed, the explana-
tions being made clear by the use of diagrams, drawn by James and
Howard Savage. Most of the methods described must already be
familiar to readers of the Journal ;
simple substitutions of blanks for
papers on which questions are written, the use of " roller-slates ",
fake writing-boards, fire-eating and handling tricks, invisible inks,
spirit-photography and other similar devices.
November 1933 Reviews 149
The author writes to expose fraudulent and imitation mediums.
He is not concerned with those genuine ones who do not give advice
on investments or profess to be able to read the whole future, and he
believes that " there have been inexplicable phenomena " at
sittings with real spiritualists.
K. E. WATKINS.
Ludvig Dahl, D0d! Hvor er din Brodd? 8vo, pp. 195. Oslo :
H. Ascheharg & Co., 1933.
This is Judge Dahl's fourth book on his psychical experiences and
reflections, based on the mediumistic phenomena of his daughter,
Fru Ingeborg. It is well up to the level of his previous volumes, and
bears all the marks of a cultured and tolerant, though completely
convinced mind. Particularly interesting is a survey, in connection
with the Society's jubilee, of fifty years of psychical research.
Rev. V. G-. Duncan, Proof. Foreword by Sir Oliver Lodge. 8vo,
pp. 159, 2 ill. London : Rider and Co. [1933]. Price 5s. net.
This book is a record of many sittings which Mr Duncan had with
two direct-voice mediums from Glasgow, the Misses Moore. The
sittings were held in the dark, in which Mr Duncan took very full
notes. Mr Duncan, his wife, and their friends who attended these
sittings, appear to have found them extremely satisfactory, both as
to voice and content. They all received perfect messages on every
occasion from many relatives and friends. Trumpets moved, ecto-
plasm appeared, perfume filled the air. The mediums were not
controlled in any way, as Mr Duncan has " not the slightest faith in
such a mode of procedure "
(p. 34). Mr Duncan has, however, great
faith in his mediums, as the title of his book shows.
H. B.
Harry Price, Leaves from a Psychist's Case-Book. 8vo, pp. 404,
32 ill. London : Victor Gollanz Ltd., 1933. Price 15s. net.
Mr Price's name is probably familiar to many of our members as
that of an assiduous inquirer into supernormal and out-of-the-way
phenomena who has not hesitated to brave the widest and most
intense publicity in the pursuit of his activities. His book contains
little new matter, but provides racy reading for anybody who is not
easily put off by frequent errors of taste and even of fact ; it is
disappointing, however, to find no allusion to Mr Price's famous
demonstration that a goat cannot be changed into a human being
by means of a spoken formula. Many of Mr Price's pungent asides
deserve a more lasting record than they are likely to get in this
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1933
book ; chief amongst them is perhaps this, which occurs on his very
first page :
" It is not always the medium who is fraudulent
:
sometimes it is the investigators themselves who play tricks."
Th. B.
Mary E. Pogson, The Art of Water Finding. 8vo, pp. ii. 32,
7 diagrams. Londfield, Sussex : British Society of Dowsers
[1933]. Price Is. 8d. post free.
The name of Pogson holds an honourable place in the annals of
dowsing, and anything on this subject from one of the Pogson family
will be read with attention. Unfortunately it must be confessed
that practical success does not always carry with it skill in the
theoretical interpretation of that success. Mrs Pogson's specula-
tions, now reprinted from a periodical, are based on a theory of
emanations ; and the most that can be said is that her ideas will be
suggestive as soon as there exists some evidence for these emana-
tions. However, no speculation is altogether wasted in a field
where ignorance is practically complete.
Th. B.
Sir James George Frazer, The Fear of the Dead in Primitive
Religion. 8vo, pp. 204. London : Macmillan and Co., Ltd.,
1933. Price 10s. 6d. net.
James Thayer Addison, Life Beyond Death in the Beliefs of Man-
hind. 8vo, pp. x. 309. Price 8s. 6d. net.
It is most important for the student of modern spiritualistic
beliefs to have an adequate knowledge of the background of these
beliefs. In other words, he should be familiar with savage beliefs in
survival and kindred matters. Mr Addison's book is a useful, if
somewhat scrappy survey of such beliefs, which can serve as an
introduction to more detailed works, such as Sir James Frazer's
new book. This is written with all Sir James's literary skill and
charm and with little less than his most magnificent efflorescence of
annotation. It provides in a brief space an almost comprehensive
survey of man's fear of the dead and of the steps he has taken to
placate them.
Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Journal of the American Societyfor Psychical Research, October 1933.
Stewart Edward White, The Process of Mental Mediumship.
[Mr White's introspections would be of considerable interest if they
were written in collaboration with a psychologist, so that they were
November 1933 Notes on Periodicals 151
expressed in rather more precise language].—Le Livre des Reve-
nants. [Part XIX.].—Earl Gilmore, Psychical Manifestations ex-
hibited by Dr P. S. Haley, a Psychic. [This medium is able to render
himself invisible, to project his etheric body, to elongate his head,
and to materialise his thought-forms]. —Philip S. Haley, Experi-
ments with Ectoplasm. [The medium himself here describes the
same phenomena. The photographs with which this article is
supposed to be illustrated have apparently, like the medium,
become invisible].—Samuel E. Anderson, Psyche, the Immortal.
[Part V].
Zeitschriff fur Parapsychologie, 1933.
June. Prof. F. Cazzamalli, The Investigation of certain cerebro-
psychical and parapsychical Phenomena by means of physical Rays.
[The writer sets out three conclusions : (1) That electro-magnetic
phenomena arise in close connection with certain psychical and
parapsychical phenomena, (2) that the physical brain is the source
of these electro-magnetic phenomena, (3) and that the writer's
experimental discoveries are the first of their kind]. —C. Blacher,
Apport-Studies. [A further report of sittings with two anony-
mous mediums. The details given are quite inadequate. One, at
least, of the mediums appears to have liberty of movement during
the sittings]. —E. and M. Osty, The Unknown Powers of Mind over
Matter. [Continued].—Dr A. Ludwig, Animistic Haunting.—Dr
Gerda Walther, An Exposure of " Margery " ? [An excellent
summary of the finger-print episode ; but the question mark is
regrettable].
July. E. and M. Osty, The Unknown Powers of Mind over
Matter. [Concluded].—C. H. F. Driessen, Hidden spontaneous
Phenomena in every-day Life. [A series of cases, all anonymous and
uncorroborated].—Dr Gerda Walther, An alleged Exposure of
Rudi Schneider. [A fully annotated translation of Dr Osty's
article on Mr Price's pseudo-exposure of this medium].—Theodor
Ballauff, Magical Sympathy.
August. C. Blauher, Apport Studies. [Continued].—Frau H. C.
van Holthe tot Echten, Personal Experiences in the Domain of
Occultism.—Hans Nepke, Notes on Dr Schwab's paper " Personal
and Extraneous Matters in the Statements of Mediums ".—Florizel
von Reuter, The Development of the Spiritualistic Movement in
England.
September. C. Blacher, Apport Studies. [Conclusion].—Karl
Halenke, Clairvoyance into the future. —Ottomar Hess, Two
Sittings with Melzer. [This report cannot be said to improve
Melzer's reputation.]—Hedda Wagner, A Haunt in an Old Castle.
—
Leonhard Adelt, On the Magical Powers within us.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 193?
October. Alfred Hofmann, Recent Prophecies by the Dying.
[Non-evidential]. —Dr A. Ludwig, The Unresting. [Extract from a
magazine].—Dr Fritz Quade, Quousque tandem \ [The writer
protests against what he regards as a common assumption, namely,
that the spirit-theory is less scientific than the animistic theory. It
is, however, not the theory that is regarded as unscientific, but only
most of its holders ; for it is unfortunately true that full acceptance
of the spirit theory usually produces an uncritical spirit in the
believer. Dr Quade's article itself well illustrates this fact].
Zeitschrift fiir metapsychische Forschung, August 1933. [This peri-
odical after all continues publication].
Professor Christoph Schroder, On Healers from the point of view
of Psychical Researchers.—Professor C. Blacher, Observations on
Apports. —Dr Carl Bruno, Personal Experiences in the Domain of
the super-sensuous.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, 1933.
July. W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Paragnosy and Empathy. [This essay
occupies the whole of the present enlarged number. It is a systema-
tic survey of certain mental phenomena, of which psychometry is
typical, with a view to showing that they are the result of a kind
of empathy (Einfuhlung). The analogy is apt, but it remains no
more than an analogy, and it seems a pity to divert a useful word
from its legitimate functions]. Th. B.
September. Dr P. D. Dietz, On the resistance to fire of persons
and objects. —Felix Ortt, Psychological and Parapsychological
Problems. —Dr. P. A. Dietz, On Glossolalia. —[A summary but
useful survey of this problem].
La Ricerca Psichica, September 1933.
Remo Fedi, The Philosophy of William James in regard to
Psychical Research. —Ernesto Bozzano, A Short History of " Raps ".
[To be continued].—Romano Bianchi, The Crisis in Positive and
Spiritual Science.
ERRATUM.
October 1933, p. 123, for " Mrs J. H. Hall ", read " Mrs J. H..
Ball."
No. 500.—Vol. XXVIII December 1933
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 31 January 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"A PROXY CASE EXTENDING OVER TWELVE
SITTINGS WITH Mrs LEONARD"
WILL BE READ BY
The Rev. C. DRAYTON THOMAS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates zvill be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
K
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
NEW MEMBERS.
(Elected on 25 October 1933.)
Adams, B. A., Aldwick, Queen's Road, Hampton Hill, Middlesex.
Crunden, Miss E., c/o The Crunden and Martin Mfg. Company,
St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Due-Petersen, Jens, Aabylille, Aabyhof, Denmark.
Dundas, Mrs R. W., 30 Erta Canina, Florence, Italy.
Gatty, Oliver, 6 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
Raikes, C. S. M., Northlands, 124 College Road, London, S.E. 19.
(Elected on 29 November 1933.)
Collins, H. S., Aban Court Hotel, Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
Edgeworth, F. H., M.D., 20 Combe Park, Bath.
Henderson, Mrs G. W. S., 20 Summerhill Avenue, Montreal, Canada.
Montague, Miss Biddy, 9 Witley Court, Coram Street, London,
W.C. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 310th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 October 1933, at 4.15 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also
present : The President, Lord Charles Hope, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mr S. G. Soal, and Miss Nea Walker ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Six new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Monthly Accounts for July, August and September 1933 were
presented and taken as read.
The 311th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 29 November 1933, at 4.15 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., and later The President, in the
Chair. There were also present : Professor C. D. Broad, Mr W.
Whately Carington, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mr S. G. Soal,
and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
December 1933 Obituaries 155
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October 1933 were presented and taken
as read.
OBITUARIES.
G. R. S. Mead.
For some years past Mr Mead had been a familiar figure at meetings
of the S.P.R. He often took part in the discussions, especially
when present problems could be illuminated by reference to the
past.
He will best be remembered by the Quest, a quarterly review of
comparative religion, philosophy and mysticism, which he founded
and edited during its twenty-one years of existence. Having been
for many years closely associated with Madame Blavatsky and Mrs
Besant in their theosophical work, he was well acquainted with the
phenomena with which our Society deals.
It is no secret that since the death of his wife in 1921, Mr Mead
had had a long series of sittings with more than one private medium.
No record has been kept of these sittings, indeed he has stated that
conversation was so varied that note-taking was impossible at the
time, and he did not trust his memory for a subsequent record. But
in his opinion he had obtained ample evidence, not only of survival
of contemporaries, but of the possibility, under certain conditions,
of entering into communication with philosophers and divines of
other ages and distant countries. The thesis of a " Group Soul
"
set out in The Road to Immortality seemed to him to throw much
light on these experiences.
L. J. J.
Mrs C. B. Fernald.
We regret to record the death on 10 November of Mrs Fernald,
after a long and painful illness. Until eighteen months ago, when
she became too ill to attend, she was seldom absent from the meet-
ings of the Society.
Mrs Fernald was elected a Member in 1920 and at once became
keenly and actively interested in the work of the Society, contri-
buting valuable evidence from time to time, and participating in
various experiments. In particular, she was one of the most impor-
tant sitters in the Warren-Elliott investigation, and she also placed
at the Society's disposal all the evidence obtained at her Leonard
sittings. In her keenness to help the Society she did much useful
work in the Library for Mr Besterman during the last year or two
before her illness began.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
Mrs Fernald suffered greatly but her fortitude and gay courage,
and her interest in others never failed. She will be remembered by
her many friends as " a very gallant gentlewoman ". t vr
CASE.
A Telepathic Impression.
L. 1299.
The following case of a telepathic impression, received by two
persons in the same room, was reported to Sir Oliver Lodge by Mr
Paul B. Statham, 444 Bulwer Street, Maritzburg, South Africa, who
was himself one of the percipients. The other percipient was Henry
Schietekat, a boy of thirteen who was staying with Mr Statham
for the week-end and sharing his room. It appears from the
correspondence that Henry often spent his week-ends with Mr
Statham so that they could boat together on the river.
Mr Statham's account of the incident is as follows :
" 14 August, 1933.
"... Last Saturday night he [Henry] and I had been in bed for
some time. I was reading awhile but he had apparently gone fast
asleep. After I had switched out the light and was composing
myself for slumber, an inexplicable feeling came over me, a feeling
that somebody wanted Henry. I tried to throw it off, but it persisted.
" After a few minutes of this, judge my astonishment when
Henry suddenly turned over in bed and sat up wide awake.
'
Bunny,' he said to me, '
I don't know how it is but I feel certain
that Mother wants me. I wonder if anything has gone wrong.'
" I replied that I had had much the same impression and suggested
that he should go home [a distance of nearly two miles] and see.
It was a cold night, but that didn't deter Henry (who adores his
mother). Out of the warm bed he sprang, dressed hurriedly . . .
and went off post-haste on his push-bike, 11 p.m. He didn't
return that night, so in the morning I rode up to his parents' place
to investigate. I found that there was nothing wrong with his
mother, but that her favourite uncle, living close by, had been
taken seriously ill. She was alone in the house (save for two small
girls, Henry's sisters) and had nobody to send out for the doctor.
Henry turned up unexpectedly in the nick of time, consequent on
his mental impression, and was able to summon medical help.
" Now I can understand perhaps Henry's receiving the telepathic
message from his well-loved mother, but it was remarkable that
I also should have got the impression,—being no relation. His
mother was aware that he was sleeping at my place. . . .
" [Signed] Paul B. Statham."
December 1933 Case 157
Later we received a statement from Henry who, after explaining
about the boating parties, and that he is not at all " spooky ", gives
the following account
:
" 31 Oct. 1933.
" On the twelfth of August we had both gone to sleep, when I felt
in some way which [I] can't explain that Mummy wanted me for
something badly. I sat up and told Bunny [Mr Statham], and he
said he thought the same. So I got up, dressed, and went home
on my push-bike. When I got home I found that Mummy really
did want me because her uncle had been taken very ill, she was all by
herself in the house, and she wanted to send me for the doctor.
The next day was Sunday, at 12 o'clock Mummy's uncle died.
" [Signed] Henry Schietekat."
Mrs Schietekat wrote :
" 24 Pietermaritzburg Street,
Maritzburg, South Africa,
31 Oct. 1933.
" It was on the 12th of August when my uncle took ill suddenly
and I was wishing that Henry was home all the time, so as we could
send him for the doctor. Strange to say, a little afterwards Henry
returned home on his bicycle. I was very pleased, also surprised,
when he came back and told me what a feeling both him and our
friend Mr Statham had.
" [Signed] A. Schietekat."
THE KONNERSREUTH CASE.
Some little time since Dr Josef Deutsch, of Lippstadt, Westphalia,
sent Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, who had reviewed a
booklet of his on Konnersreuth {Proceedings, xli. 250), an article
from his pen on the same subject. The article in question was very
unfavourable to the stigniatica's claim. Count Perovsky then wrote
to Professor G. Wunderle, of Wiirzburg University, a Catholic
priest, with whom he had previously been in correspondence, asking
him to express his view of the present state of the Konnersreuth
case. A translation of Professor Wunderle's answer follows.
" I willingly answer your friendly letter of 27.10.33.
" Dr Deutsch has also sent to me his article '
Allerlei iiber Konners-
reuth '
(Die Hochwarte, 13.10.33, no. 9). As in his other writings he
there discusses the '
Konnersreuth case '
from a purely medical
point of view. He has always admitted, however, that this cannot
be the sole method of treatment. Seeing that even from the
medical standpoint alone such serious, I will even say conclusive
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
doubts, must be expressed against Konnersreuth, scepticism
regarding the supernatural nature of the case is well-founded. As
you know I have constantly raised yet other objections. These
have not been meanwhile disposed of, at any rate so far as I know.
Therese Neumann, in my opinion also, should certainly have allowed
herself to be scientifically investigated. From this view I cannot
depart, and I regret that this has not been done. The circumstances
which led to the neglect or the prevention of the investigation are
certainly very regrettable. When we asked for the verdict of
science we were all animated by the most honorable motives.
The severe insults heaped upon us did not induce us to renounce
our wishes. We acted in the interest of the Church, and Therese
Neumann ought also to have complied with the Bishops' desire in
the Church's interest. As she did not do so she certainly did not
improve the Konnersreuth situation scientifically speaking. She
has not had good advisers. Now everything is quiet at Konners-
reuth ; one hardly hears of it, and it is well that it should be so.
In Catholic life there are things infinitely more weighty than
Konnersreuth. May that quiet persist !
"
Professor Wunderle adds that he has no objection to the printing
of his letter.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Telepathy and Survival.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Dr Osty's researches in the field of metagnomy published
in his " Telepathie spontanee et transmission de pensee experi-
mentale ", so ably and interestingly reviewed by Mr Soal in the
November Journal, clearly justifies the cautious attitude of the
S.P.R. in recent years towards mediumistic communications pur-
porting to come from discarnate sources. At the same time it is
obvious that no positive evidence of the falseness of all discarnate
communications has been adduced. In fact the proof that the
living mind can have access to memories, in seeming to point to
the survival of memories (as Mr Soal shows), suggests that minds
must survive to make use of them, and not only of them, otherwise
life and survival would both be farcical. It is hard to believe (to
paraphrase Professor William James) that BUNK is written in large
letters across one of the most deep-seated and wide-spread beliefs
of the human race.
Yours, etc.,
Ernest S. Thomas.
December 1933 Revieiv 159
REVIEW.
Prof. Hans Driesch, Psychical Research. Translated by Theodore
Besterman. 8vo, pp. xvi. 175. London : G. Bell and Sons,
Ltd., 1933. Price 5s. net.
Professor Driesch has written a book which, despite certain
limitations, should be read by all who wish to take psychical
research seriously.
As a philosopher he is naturally and rightly interested in the
methodology of the subject and a great part of the work is occupied
with an attempt to exhibit the logical framework within which, as
it were, the pieces of the puzzle must be fitted together, and with
considering what fundamentally new concepts would be involved
by the admission of this or that alleged phenomenon to the status
of fact. Such work is of fundamental importance.
On the interpretative side, Professor Driesch is non-committal,
though his avowed support of " vitalism " (growing more respectable
almost daily) naturally predisposes him to animistic views. Accept-
ing telepathy at least as irrefutably proven, he appears to hesitate,
as regards supernormal communications from ostensibly discarnate
entities, between a peculiar version of the Cosmic Consciousness
hypothesis and true " spiritism ", or " monadism " as he prefers to
call it. The former view, which I find very repellent, appears to
postulate a " cosmic subject " independent of the incarnate con-
sciousness we know and equipped with an indefinitely large number
of " catalogues " and " plans " to which clairvoyants and " meta-
gnomes " (Professor Driesch's word for mediums) have access.
This may appeal to those who like to think in terms of akashic
records, but otherwise (if the word is applicable) it would seem
to have few merits. As I have explained elsewhere, I find it almost
imperative and not at all difficult to suppose that all consciousnesses
share a common " subterconsciousness " (to coin yet another term)
by virtue of which some measure of inter-communication may take
place, but the idea of this detached cosmic encyclopaedia seems in
the last degree fantastic and uncalled for by the facts.
It is not quite clear whether " The Impossibility of a Definite
Conclusion " as regards these two hypotheses is regarded as being
inherent in the problem or as referring only to the present state of
our knowledge. If the former is intended, then the possibility of
applying to self-styled spirits the psychological equivalents of
Bertillon measurements, as Mr Hereward Carrington has recently
essayed to do, has been overlooked.
Professor Driesch seems to have been singularly well served by
his translator, who has infused lucidity into an originally difficult
piece of work ; but an index of subjects as well as of names would
nave been valuable. Whately Carington.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research, vols, xx-
xxi.
[In earlier times a juryman was such for the very reason that he
was a neighbour to and had much personal knowledge of the facts
of the case. This is the position of the writer. While he cannot
conceive that, had his knowledge been derived only from the books
named above, his opinion of them would have differed materially,
undoubtedly that opinion is fortified by a multitude of facts known
to him but not revealed in the volumes and quite unknown to the
interested public. But there will here be made no use of these facts,
except for brief references to certain documents of which the writer
has copies, the originals being in the possession of those responsible
for the books which are to be criticized.
The titlepages announce the books (comprising all the Proceedings
from 1926 to 1933) both as Volumes XX-XXI and as Volumes (not
parts) 1-2. They are " for the years 1926-1927 ", yet a third of
Vol. 2 concerns 1928-1929. The preface of Vol. 1 says that they
will constitute " a complete record ", but they do not, since the
massive material relating to the thumb prints is postponed for
some future volume. Other matter promised by Bird will be
sought in Vol. 2 in vain, such as the mysterious " open references
"
and the promised Appendix (15 n.). The list of authors of the
chapters in Vol. 2 forgets that Dr Hamilton wrote Chapter 48 (492).
Any one who desires to refer conveniently to plates must make his
own list. Such samples of inexactitude are of interest, since those
responsible for them also edited the case material (492) and were
conspicuous in the actual investigation.
Volume 1 was wholly edited and mostly written by J. Malcolm
Bird. His book of 1924, My Psychic Adventures, shows no lack of
earnestness and confidence, but in the Banner of Life, 8 August
1925, he admitted that it was merely " a human document, with
no scientific implications ". In 1925 appeared his Margery the
Medium, written with an unsurpassable tone of authority and
assumption of ability to detect the mental and moral delinquencies
of every man with whose opinions he was in conflict. But in
Vol. 1 under consideration criticism forces him to admit that
Margery the Medium was " written from a journalistic viewpoint . . .
and judged from severe scientific standards has certain obvious
shortcomings " (1). Since, aside from a somewhat more orderly
arrangement and the disuse of melodramatic chapter-titles, the
" obvious shortcomings " continue, it was expected that Bird would
in Vol. 2 ask leniency for Vol. 1. But two years ere that appeared
he had resigned as Research Officer, with an eloquent philippic of
December 1933 Notes on Periodicals 161
protest against what he pronounced lay and determined spiritualistic
domination. It remained for the " general editorial supervision
"
(492) of Vol. 2 not to plead for leniency to him, but to denounce
him for such qualities as must by necessary implication, if they
existed, have laid all his previous writing on the case under sus-
picion. More than three years before his resignation Bird observed,
as he believed, indications of fraud, which he ignored in Vol. 1,
printed a year later. The report embodying these observations
was not suffered to be printed in Vol. 2 until it had been edited and
deodorized by another hand. Aside from this, the long paper which
he furnished for Vol. 2, exhibiting what he called " the oblique
aspects of the mediumship ", was rejected with loathing. " Bird's
opinion and conclusions were rejected as unsound and impossible
and the article as biassed and unworthy of publication " (651 n.).
The very fact that he professed to find a factor of fraud from the
beginning up to the thumb-prints, which he thought genuine (!),
was suppressed. But will it be credited that a man who could in
1929 write some sixty pages of " unsound and impossible " material,
" biassed and unworthy of publication ", was quite free from such
tendencies earlier, when he wrote Vol. 1 ? Considering that in 1929
he cited in his support critics of the case (just so far as their testi-
mony supported his altered views) whose evidence he had earlier
derided and condemned, it seems probable that his biasses had but
changed their direction.
Volume 1 is saturated with two major faults. The first may be
introduced by Bird's own statement :
" My mental life revolves
much more about words than does that of the average person. . . .
I am constantly doing mental tricks with them " (Psychic Research,
xxii. 273). And that habit accompanies all his writing on psychic
research. Such is his wizardry with words that he would (110-13)
persuade the unwary reader that the pamphlet Margery-Harvard-
Veritas was not anonymous and that it did truly allege that the
records of the Harvard Group were exactly reprinted therein. But
such verbiage will not stand analysis (see Bulletin XIX, B.S.P.R.,
60-61).
There are many instances of insinuation, favourable or derogatory.
We may not agree to the proposition (141) that if 95 per cent, of a
mediumship is open to no conceivable attack " we are logically
compelled to concede that the suspicious 5 per cent, is genuine
"
(apply that formula to chemical analysis !). But the insinuation is
that this is the status of the Margery case, and it is an untrue one.
And here is an example of the insinuation derogatory : "Of course,
Prince insists . . . that his inability to get on with the Crandons is
entirely their fault " (143 n.). The reader is left with the notion
that Prince had had friction with the Crandons during the sittings
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
and admitted this, but denied that he was responsible, whereas
there was never a shadow of a single such incident nor ever one
charged. He simply could not continue sittings because of pro-
hibitive conditions (Bulletin XIX, B.S.P.R., 55).
The second major fault is the almost unprecedented ingenuity
and persistency of attack upon the mental and moral character of
persons whose judgments were unpleasing. I here but quote one
sentence from Bulletin XIX, B.S.P.R. :
" That all of a certain
man's express forensic opponents, irrespective of previous rank,
station and reputation, should be subject to condemnation, and
that it should be possible to determine that all others who murmur
dissent from his opinion bear the like stamp of malignity or mental
impotence is quite incredible."
Volume 2 is a curiously syndicated and stratified piece of work.
Bird declares that he had edited approximately all the material
supposed to enter it, rewriting parts on demand. Yet no credit
whatever is given him (492). It is probable that the chapters
ascribed to Dudley have been so effectually done over as to be justly
called his, aside from such alterations as the " general editorial
supervision " saw fit to make without consulting him. His chapters
are devoid of personal detraction, insinuation and verbal tortuosity,
the material is mainly record and description, and, if at times too
trustful of appearances, there are also certain reticences which
would escape the careless reader and perhaps escaped the " general
editorial supervision " itself. Chapter 46, said to be by Walton
(a trustee of the A.S.P.R.), is like Bird in its abuse of investigators
and its verbal ingenuity. The chapters by Richardson are highly
unsatisfactory in spite of their superficial appearance, either
because of tenuous connections between facts and conclusions or of
large gaps in the evidence, particularly as to the conditions of the
experiments.
Remarks about phenomena must be very brief because of the
small space allotted and are chosen almost at random from 840
pages. Chapter 3 on " Walter's '
Talking Head ' " may be interest-
ing, but it is scientifically valueless. It concerns certain luminous
effects with which imagination could play. Dr Crandon said there
was presented " a definite skull with jaws open " and that " all
saw it ", Bird less clearly. Bird says he saw no skull at all, " nothing
more than vague striations in the faintly luminous mass." Nor did
the head talk. The subsequent " talking head " (which also was
not proved to talk) is certainly not a skull and the reader can judge
from the plates (nos. 14-19) how much like a head it is. The
photographs would present the same appearance whether the
" appendage " had issued from or was, as Bird perhaps inadvertently
puts it on plate 14, " thrust up into the nose ", nor do they show
December 1933 Notes on Periodicals 163
whether the smaller extension is a " psychic cord " or a thread stout
enough to bear the weight of the " mass " as in plate 19.
The " Teleplasmic Hand," Chapter 5, is equally worthless, partly
because apparently founded solely on accounts by Crandon, who
Bird admits is not reliable (282), and who in fact is capable of much
embroidery or even of compounding the unimpressive events of
seven dates into one stupendous evening (Bulletin XIX, B.S.P.R.,
63-4). But the Doctor describes the " hand " as " closely re-
sembling the hands of the Dingwall sittings ", the same which two
Harvard experts said were undoubtedly cut out of the lung tissue
of some animal. The Doctor adds that " it was very lovely
"
and the reader can see how beautiful it was from the plates in
Proceedings S.P.R., xxxvi, showing the closely resembling earlier
hand.
The " Voice Machine " (Chapters 20, 21, etc.), upon which the
medium had months of opportunity to practise before it was brought
into seance use, is not convincing. The writer invented a little trick
with his fingers which no one can perform without the weeks of
practice it cost him. He spoke several words at the only moment
he ever tried the machine (282) and another man did better at a
later date, both talking and whistling (275). How much of the
interval between the latter date and that of exhibiting an improved
mouthpiece to pose beginners was employed in practice we do not
know. But we do know that Crandon has steadily refused to allow
a stethoscope to be placed on the medium's throat or breast-bone,
although besought to do so by a then believing agent of the A.S.P.R.
What possible reason for this refusal except that the stethoscope
would tell the source of the " independent voice " ?
There are a number of pleasant nuances to be found, as the state-
ment (79) that on a certain occasion Walter's voice, not in connection
with the machine, had " all its habitual effect of coming from the
immediate vicinity of the Psychic's head " [italics sic]. Another is
in the caption to plate 13, " showing mass of teleplasm upstanding
from the psychic's head, apparently supported in normal fashion at
top of cabinet " [my italics]. Another concerns sittings when Car-
theuser, the shady physical medium, was present, his phenomena
mingling with Margery's, and Walter's voice " seemed more like a
male voice than at any other seance " (552). Still another is found
in Bird's observation that of all investigators, " I am in the unique
position of not having any urge toward the rapid promulgation of
final views of some sort." The humour of this can be appreciated
in the light of his statement in Margery the Medium (438) that he
became utterly convinced by the time he had reached his twelfth
sitting and by his admission in the Scientific American of August
1924, written when he had had 22 more sittings, that " mani-
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
festations have not yet occurred in our presence under full test
conditions ".
Chapter 47 manifests as much confidence in Cartheuser's pheno-
mena as in those of Margery. Yet the " general editorial super-
vision " knew that their own agent caught Cartheuser in fraud and
forced him to make confession before one of the writers of Vol. 2.
Later Cartheuser was " available " for sittings in the rooms of
the A.S.P.K. (Psychic Research, November 1930).
Much could be said regarding the glass cabinet, bell-box and
reading-in-the-dark tests. But is it not enough to quote Professor
McComas, for six months or more (in 1926) a salaried agent of the
A.S.P.R. ? So much impressed that he offered to bet Code that he
could not reproduce the Margery phenomena, the latter scorned
the mercenary factor but invited him to see what could be done.
And " Professor Grant H. Code, of the University of Delaware,
reproduced the levitation effects excellently ; he also reproduced
the bell-box effect and the reading of the cards in the dark " (743).
McComas similarly lashed Code in an essentially similar cabinet.
Consequently McComas declared that he would bet the same sum
that anything done in the Margery circle could be done by Code,
with no takers.
Walton, in Chapter 56, continues the attack of Chapter 31 upon
Wood, a leading physicist, and his two psychologist colleagues,
forming an A.S.P.R. commission for investigation. His first and
prolonged complaint is that Professor Dunlap had previously
written books expressing opinions unfavourable to Spiritualism
and he laments that, mindful of the maxim caveat emptor (717), the
psychologist's career had not been antecedently scrutinized to
make sure it was untainted. But, then, even McComas turned
heretic.
Let us sample the oddities of this chapter. Wood is reproached
(727-9) for violating on 30 January the preliminary stipulation that
" no psychic structure shall be touched or interfered with in any
way " when he " pinched " the solid rod and discovered that it was
held in the psychic's mouth. But the record of that evening shows
that it was the medium herself who brought the hand of every
investigator into contact with the rod (380), that when McComas
reported that he had squeezed it gently and there was no complaint,
Wood squeezed it harder, that there was still no complaint and
that phenomena went merrily on. Crandon charged that " cata-
menia came at once after the sitting ", with the implication that
Wood's brutal squeeze caused it, and yet there is printed (724) the
stenographer's statement that the medium was unwell before the
sitting and Crandon knew it (382). Walton, evidently crediting
the disastrous consequences of the " pinch ", after a visit to Boston
December 1933 Notes on Periodicals 165
reported to McComas that the medium had " been ill in bed for the
last two weeks " immediately following the crime (729). And he
reiterates in the book that she " in the meantime was seriously ill
two weeks " (728). Yet it is an incontrovertible fact that she had
three lively sittings on February 3, 4 and 6, when she was con-
structively ill in bed or at least seriously ill ! Dr Crandon indeed
says in one place that she was in bed four days, but insists upon her
protracted illness (732). Still further to emphasize the tragedy
of 30 January, it is alleged by Crandon that before the medium
could leave the room she vomited on the floor. The three university
professors declare that after the medium, as they believed, simulated
vomiting and left the room they examined the floor and there was
nothing on it. Both Bird (384) and Walton (746-7) expect the
reader to believe that Crandon, whose dramatizing talents are well-
known to them, is the only honest man of the four. The signing
by the Commissioners at a later date of the record ending with the
statement, " There was nausea and vomiting of the Psychic after
the sitting ", is of no consequence. They doubtless supposed an
event after their departure was meant and that it was understood
that this statement rested on the word of the Crandons, exactly
as did the immediately previous statement upon that of the steno-
grapher. Other of the efforts in Chapters 31 and 56 by officers of
the A.S.P.R. to impeach their own Commissioners are as rickety
as Bird's evidence that Code never could have had an alleged solus
sitting with Margery ;
namely, the affidavit of a woman that he
did not have such a sitting on a date which she does not remember
and, therefore, cannot know is the date which he names (103).
Chapter 57 is reprinted as it stood in Psychic Research, without
noticing Besterman's drastic remarks on the futility of the attempt
to demonstrate the independence of the Walter mentality by
hypnosis and on the suspicious character of the " dead horse
"
cross-correspondence (see Proceedings S.P.R., Part 110). The
other " cross-correspondences ", whether with Valiantine of shady
reputation, or others, are liable to similar criticism. In some the
principals are in the position of the expert who deals the cards, and
the opportunities for prearrangement and collusion are present.
There are cloudy spots in the reporting and gaps in the evidence.
The ordinary reader is not embarrassed by certain knowledge that
a pivotal character in one of the seemingly best experiments is a
person to whom the truth is of little concern, and by information
from one of the witnesses that the facts in another are materially
misstated, probably from credulity and not intention.
After the material relating to the Chinese script was first published
Mr (nor Sir) R. F. Johnston, in Psychic Science (April 1929), declared
that it could not be from Confucius or of ancient origin, that it
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
consisted in fact of quotations from a book familiar to Chinese of
any education, etc. A reply in the same issue disclaimed holding
that Confucius had anything to do with the writing and modestly
declared :
" We have presented no claims in connection with these
scripts other than the fact of their production under controlled con-
ditions, which, we believe, establish their supernormality." Such
being the only claim left and the guarantors having asserted with
more emphasis that the Walter thumb prints, since demonstrated
to be those of a living man, were also secured against fraud by the
strict conditions, what assurance is there that there was not sub-
stitution of previously prepared sheets for those scribbled upon
during the sittings ? A Chinaman could have detected the differ-
ence but no Chinaman assisted, except after sittings to make
inexpert translations. One evening a sheaf of sheets was marked
by Richardson for identification and he thought (many have
erroneously thus thought) that he by this means was able to identify
them. But how were they marked ? In any way difficult to
imitate ? Did Richardson obtain them in the Crandon house % If
not, were they furnished in advance of the sitting, giving time to
procure other like sheets ? These are a few out of the questions
which have had no answers. For some reason, on this particular
evening, whatever was done to the sheets was done in the dark.
Why ?
The book reprints the original Chinese material, as though Sir R.
Johnston never existed, leaves the reader under the impression that
Confucius (815) and other ancients (811) actually communicated,
fails to admit that the quotations are from a very well-known
Chinese book and reiterates that its " ideas . . . bear the hall-mark
of '
original ' Chinese literature which is accessible only in one or
two libraries in this country " (818).
The Margery case has boxed the entire compass of types of
physical and mental mediumship, genuine or spurious, and has added
new types. This does not necessarily imply remarkable human
persistence and ingenuity ; it might imply that Walter is the most
versatile spirit genius who has ever manifested. But such a gifted
spirit ought to know that truth does not walk with cautious tread
and does not hide from the face of any man, but demands inspection,
even by the doubtful and the yet unbelieving. Such a spirit should
be quite aware that by screening out all but believing or subsidized
observers, by screening out, so far as possible, all but complaisant
testimony and affirmative documents, a good impression is not
produced upon logical human minds. Such a spirit would be
expected to shun the conventions and taboos which were originally
invented to protect fraud, to consent gladly to every test suggested
by common-sense and generally to react in as rational a fashion
December 193."? Notes on Periodicals 167
as would have been expected of him during his less highly endowed
earth life. If, however, the solution of the phenomena is to be
sought in human agents, then what would be highly unwise and
impolitic in a spirit might become an indeed embarrassing, but a
very necessary, course.] W. F. Prince.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, November
1933.
Le Livre des Revenants. [Part XX].—F. B. Bond, The Inspira-
tion of Glastonbury.—H. A. Dallas, Some successful " Proxy "
Sittings. —Samuel E. Anderson, Psyche the Immortal. [Part VI].
American Psychical Institute, Bulletin I.
[This first publication of a new body formed to prosecute psychical
research contains " An Instrumental Test of the Independence of
a '
Spirit Control ' ", by Mr Hereward Carrington. This notable
paper requires detailed consideration, and a review will appear
later in Proceedings.]
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
October 1933.
S. De Brath, The Law of Spiritual Consequences. [Part II].—
H. A. Dallas, Some Reflections on the Etheric Body.—Stenographic
Notes taken at a Direct Voice Sitting with Mrs Perriman. [The
whole of this record, except the last seven lines, is of no evidential
value, the sitting having been held in darkness, the medium and
her husband both uncontrolled. In the last lines, however, is a
brief account of the occurrence of the direct voice in full daylight.
We shall look forward to further reports of this phenomenon].
—
James Leigh, The Human Side of Mediumship. [Suggests that
while spiritualists unduly concentrate on the phenomena, psychical
researchers are too much concerned with the medium.]
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1933.
Dr E. Osty, The spontaneous and fortuitous manifestations of
supernormal knowledge. [As Dr Osty explains, this collection of
cases is published to illustrate types of evidence and not to provide
definitely authentic material. To be continued]. —C. de Vesme,
Xenoglossy. [The writer once more rehearses the Edmonds and
Filiberto cases, without improving the evidential status of either.
In regard to the former he has misunderstood a criticism of Pod-
more's and as a result fails to appreciate the true chronology of the
case. The theoretical part of the paper is as yet incomplete], —The
Problem of the Dowser. [Contributions by Dr Jules Regnault,
M. Henry de France, and Dr Osty].
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1933
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique,
October 1933.
General Meeting of 9 July 1933. [Addresses by MM. Schaerer
and Vandermeulen].—L. Vandermeulen, Monograph on the Henri
Vandermeulen Apparatus.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, November 1933.
Franz Ettig and Hans Foerster, The Secret of Psychometry.
[An account of a sitting with Sonia P., a girl sixteen years of age.
The results are not of great evidential value, and are produced by
a system of questioning which is often abused.]—Prof. I. M. Ver-
weyen, The Experiment in Psychical Kesearch. [The writer
divides scientific work into investigation, observation, and experi-
ment. Even accepting this classification, some surprise must be
expressed at Prof. Verweyen's illustrations of his own attempts at
experiment. Thus, he describes how, at a sitting with Frau Silbert,
he tried the experiment of rapping in a certain rhythm in order to
see whether the " spirit " could reproduce it. On the ground that
he obtained an " echo " of a rhythm from an unknown opera,
the writer's scepticism was strongly shaken. But surely the un-
familiarity of the rhythm is an irrelevant consideration, since it was
first rapped by the sitter ; it would have been more to the point to
tell us something about the degree of difficulty of the rhythm].
—
Hildegard Laucks, " Uk ". [On a haunt ; to be concluded].
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, November 1933.
Dr Herman Wolf, Driesch and the Problem of Immortality.
—
Prof. M. C. van Mourik Broekman, Psychical Research and Theo-
logical Problems. [To be continued].
La Ricerca Psichica, October 1933.
E. Servadio, On the psychic Mechanism of Telepathic Hallucina-
tions. [A psychoanalytical theory].—E. Bozzano, Brief History
of " Raps ". [To be continued]. Th. B.
No. 501.—Vol. XXVIII January 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 31 January 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"A PROXY CASE EXTENDING OVER TWELVE
SITTINGS WITH Mrs LEONARD"
WILL BE READ BY
The Rev. C. DRAYTON THOMAS
(LANTERN SLIDES WILL BE SHOWN)
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4-45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
PRIVATE MEETING
The Clairvoyance of M. Stefan Ossowiecki
The 126th Private Meeting was held on Wednesday, 29 November
1933, at 5.30 p.m., The President in the Chair.
Mr Theodore Besterman read a paper entitled " The Clair-
voyance of M. Stefan Ossowiecki ", the substance of which has been
printed in Part 132 of Proceedings.
A discussion followed in which Professor E. P. Dodds, Lord
Charles Hope, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the
Rev. J. W. Hayes, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr S. G. Soal,
Mr F. Barlow, Miss Reutiner, Mr J. Hettinger, and Mr A. H. Strawson
took part.
B.B.C. TALKS ON PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
A series of talks on psychical research has been organised by the
British Broadcasting Corporation under the title of " Inquiry into
the Unknown ". The series was opened on 5 January by Mr Gerald
Heard. It will be continued on 19 January and on successive
Fridays thereafter at 9 p.m. The speakers will be Mr Besterman
on how psychical research is done ; Lord Charles Hope on physical
mediumship ; Professor C. G. Seligman, who will present the
opposition case in two talks ; Mrs Salter on telepathy ; Dame
Edith Lyttelton on dreams and prevision ;
Sir Ernest Bennett on
ghosts and haunted houses ; Sir Oliver Lodge on survival ; and the
series will be concluded with a summing up by Professor C. D. Broad.
Certain of the talks will be relayed to America, and it is hoped that
the entire series will be afterwards published in book form.
It is gratifying to note that all the speakers except Professor
Seligman are active members of the Society.
A " FIRE WALKING " CEREMONY IN FIJI
By S. M. White
The ceremony of " Fire Walking " which I saw took place at a
spot on the outskirts of the town of Suva, Viti Levu, Fiji Islands,
on a Sunday afternoon early in July 1932. On the Sunday morning
I saw a notice, posted in the Indian quarter of the town, that a
theatrical performance would be given, by the Madrassi people from
Southern India, on the Saturday evening, and that a " Fire Walk-
ing " ceremony would take place on the Sunday afternoon. On
enquiry I found that the ceremony would take place near a tenqole
which stood some distance down the road towards Nausori on the
Rewa river.
January L934 A "Fire Walking" Ceremony 171
I was shown the way to the temple by two Indians, both of the
poorer class : an old Brahmin, and a young Indian who spoke
English. The temple was very hard to reach, except by taking a
footpath across the golf links, and at the entrance to each footpath
a Fijian police constable was stationed, who prevented my Indian
companions from passing. They were very indignant and said to
me, " You see how we are treated when we are going to a most
important religious ceremony " . I mention this because the remark
seems to make it clear that they looked on the whole affair as a
religious ceremony and not as a show.
We eventually reached the place where the ceremony was held,
after scrambling through bushes and along tracks which were
trampled into deep soft mud. The slipperiness and the mud show
that there had been fairly heavy rain not very long before, but on
the actual day of the ceremony there was not, so far as I can re-
member, any rain, or at the most one or two light showers in the
morning and no rain in the afternoon. The sky was rather overcast,
and I do not think that there was any bright sunshine during the
ceremony.
The spot where the " Fire Walking " ceremony took place stood
on the opposite side of a ravine from an Indian village, and the pit
containing the fire stood nearly between an open-air stage, on which
the theatrical performance had taken place the previous day, and a
small wooden temple, or rather shrine, which I was allowed to look
into but not to enter.
The " Fire Walking " took place in a large pit, which was, I
should say, about fifteen feet wide by forty-five feet long, and which
was filled to within a few inches of the top with wood ashes. The
pit stood in a roped-off enclosure, of such a size that there was
perhaps three or four yards' width of turf on either side of the pit,
about double that width at one end where the " Fire Walkers
"
entered, and a space five or six times as large at the other end.
Fijian and Indian spectators, both men and women, were standing
two or three deep all around the enclosure, except at the entrance,
and where there was a rough shelter, opposite the middle of the pit.
This shelter, which was just a roof on four posts, held several rows
of chairs, occupied by Indian spectators, and by the few white people
who were present, half a dozen sailors from a warship, and six or
seven other white men and women. I myself squeezed on to a chair
at the end of the second row, next to a prosperous-looking Brahmin
gentleman, who told me that the ceremony took place only once a
year, and that I was thus very fortunate to see it. He explained to
me that the bed of ashes had been prepared by kindling in the pit
ten tons of wood (formerly twenty tons were used, but now, owing
to the depression, the amount was reduced). The wood was lighted
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
at such, a time before the ceremony that it would just have burned
to ashes before the " Fire Walking " took place. The timing must
have been judged fairly accurately, as, just before the ceremony,
although the greatest part of the wood had been reduced to ashes,
there were still a few small logs left, which, it is interesting to notice,
were carefully raked out of the pit before the ceremony began.
ENTRANCE
I
I
1
I
ENCLOSURE
TEMPLE
I
~~
i
j
STAND
]
1 I
Whilst we were waiting, the Brahmin explained to me that pre-
paration was essential if one' was to walk across the pit unharmed.
He said that anyone could do the " Fire Walking " if they went
through the proper ritual, but that no one could walk across unless
they had done so. I do not think, however, that he meant that the
preparation was purely mechanical ; one had, I imagine, got to have
a good deal of faith in the ritual. The preparation consisted of a fast
of fourteen days, with, I think, religious rites, during which the
participants lived at the temple, and at the conclusion of which they
had to walk down to the sea, here about three miles away, bathe in
it, and then walk back again. I understood that both the fast and
the bathe in the sea were essential.
Before the return of the " Fire Walkers " there came out two men
wearing masks, and with their bodies painted, otherwise naked
except for a girdle, who danced beside the pit, dancing with the
most furious energy, so that the perspiration streamed off them.
These men did not, however, so far as I saw, walk through the pit.
Then there was a stir of excitement round the entrance ; some
January 1934 A "Fire Walking" Ceremony 173
attendants ran to thrust back the people to make room for the
" Fire Walkers " to enter, another ran with a pole and hooked out
of the pit a small log which still lay burning there.
A minute or two later the procession of the " Fire Walkers
"
appeared, led by a priest in a tall round pointed brown hat (like a
fool's cap), and carrying a brass dish on which there was some
fruit and a pile of brown powder. The other " Fire Walkers " came
straggling in behind him, most of them looking very exhausted, and
supported by a man on either side ; but even the most exhausted
of them seemed to regain their strength at the sight of the pit, and
were able to leave their helpers and to walk steadily and firmly.
They did not walk through the pit one by one, but in irregular order,
and it was interesting to notice that at the beginning the priest and
three or four others came up to the edge of the pit at the same time,
and that when they got there, there was a most marked moment of
hesitation until the priest took his courage into his hands and
stepped on to the ashes, after which the others all seemed to lose
their nervousness. All those participating walked through the pit
at least once, and some of them turned at the other end and
walked back again, a good many walking through three or
more times. They walked quite slowly, and did not show any
sign of discomfort or pain, or any apparent wish to hurry. Most of
them walked in the ordinary way on the surface of the ashes, into
which their feet sank as they would have sunk into any other bed of
soft wood ashes, but I particularly remember seeing one man, who
had already walked through once, walking through again in a state
of seeming ecstasy, ploughing his feet down into the ashes as deeply
as he could at each step, so that his feet were covered over.
The men who walked through the pit wore only a cotton loin
cloth each, arranged in the ordinary Indian manner, and coming
part of the way down their thighs. The loin cloths appeared to be
wet from the sea bathing, and did not show any noticeable signs of
scorching when I saw some of the men at close quarters afterwards.
I think, though I do not remember very distinctly, that the priest
wore a brown coat as well as a loin cloth.
During the ceremony I noticed a number of men who had silver
skewers stuck through their cheeks and other fleshy parts of their
bodies, the wounds from which did not bleed or appear to cause them
any discomfort. I think that these men were some of those who
walked through the pit, and had undergone the preparation.
At the end of the ceremony, a man came round with the brass
tray which the priest had carried, and gave pinches of the brown
powder to those Hindus who asked for it. A portion was given to
the Brahmin next to me, and he put it carefully away in a little box,
and seemed to look on it as precious. A small and not very happy-
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
looking little girl was also led, or rather almost dragged, round the
pit ; I am not sure why this was done, though one man did tell me
that she had been ill, and that it was to make her better.
After the " Fire Walking " was over, I was able to look at the
pit from close at hand ; the ashes were white on the surface, and did
not glow red, though this may be accounted for in part by the fact
that it was fairly bright daylight, though there was no direct sun-
light. They were certainly exceedingly hot. To stand down-wind
from the pit was like standing near a furnace. Standing on the up-
wind side, at the edge, I found that if I held out my bare hand over
the pit, at about the level of my chin (that is about five feet nine
inches above the level of the ashes), I was only able to keep it there
momentarily before the heat began to burn it. I also tried dropping
bits of paper into the pit. Scraps of newspaper burst into flames as
soon as they touched the ashes, and bits of brown wrapping paper
turned black, smouldered and shrivelled up, without actually burst-
ing into flames.
I also saw some of the people who had passed through the pit.
The feet of the first man whom I saw were covered with mud, but
his legs did not appear to be in any way injured.
Two other men whom I saw had washed their feet and I was able
to look at them closely. Their legs and feet did not show any signs
of burns or blisters, and the delicate skin about the base of the toes,
on the upper surface of the foot, which would certainly have been
in contact with the ashes into which their feet had sunk, seemed
quite normal. The under surface of the feet was rather white in
colour, though perhaps not more so than I had noticed with Fijian
porters, after they had walked long distances through rivers and
along muddy bush tracks. The under surface of the feet seemed also
to have a somewhat softened appearance, such as one may notice
with one's own feet after fairly prolonged bathing in very hot water.
None of them seemed to suffer any inconvenience in walking, or to
show any signs of discomfort or distress. It was also noticeable
that though the " Fire Walkers " had looked very exhausted
when they reached the pit after walking up from the sea, yet
when I saw them after the ceremony they did not seem to be
particularly exhausted.
The Fijian people present seemed to have a very great respect for
the heat of the pit. One six feet tall young man was standing beside
me at the edge of the pit, and I indicated to him that he should walk
into it. He stepped back hastily, and gave me to understand by
gestures that he was most certainly not going to do so.
Looking back on the ceremony, I feel convinced that the events
happened as I have described, and that they cannot be explained
away by any suggestion of mass hypnotism. I think, too, that the
January 1934 Correspondence 175
heat of the pit was so great that no ordinary man could have stepped
into it without being badly burned. An iron bar or a piece of coke
which is hot enough to cause a piece of newspaper to burst into
flames is certainly far above the lowest temperature which would
cause a serious burn even with only momentary contact, whilst,
although wood ash has probably a low thermal conductivity, the
" Fire Walkers " were in the pit for half a minute or more at a time.
In view of the length of time that they were in the pit, I do not
think that the result was affected by the fact that their feet were
wet from walking over muddy paths, and that their bodies may have
been damp with perspiration. In any case it was pure chance that
there had been rain recently enough to leave the paths wet.
It may perhaps not be out of place here to mention that the
natives of one of the islands of the Fiji group give shows in which
they walk about on hot stones. This is only a show, and I under-
stand that it has no religious significance. I have not seen it, but
I have been told that it does not in any way compare with the " Fire
Walking " described above. I have also been told, though this
is pure hearsay, that the Fijians protect themselves by painting
their feet with some decoction of their own.
CORRESPONDENCE
On the Possibility of Proving Survival
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—I fear that I must beg leave again to trespass on your space
to thank Dr Rhine and your other correspondents for their com-
ments on my letter in the issue for June last.
May I say, first of all, that I sincerely hope that Dr Rhine is right
and that I am wrong, although at the present moment I am not
convinced that it is so. As regards Dr Rhine's first point, viz. my
view that conviction on the matter of survival must always depend
on individual idiosyncrasy, he is willing to admit that there is at
present a large element of this involved. Where we differ is in our
estimation of the relative size of that element and the hopes of
reducing it. From the fact that I have devoted, and still continue
to devote, a good deal of time and labour to the study of psychical
research it is obvious that I do not hold the view that no advance in
scientific knowledge is possible in this sphere, but I very much fear
that that advance must be so slow and small that conviction one
way or the other will continue for as long as it is possible for us to
foresee to be determined by other factors.
Touching the two variables which, as I believe, determine con-
viction, antecedent acceptability or otherwise need not and in fact
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
in many cases is not a matter of unscientific belief. There are many
for whom the antecedent inacceptability of survival is based mainly
on physiological considerations. Were psychical research the sole
scientific factor we should doubtless be constrained to do our utmost
to permit it to determine our conviction without let or hindrance
from any other source ; but it is not so : psychology, physiology,
etc., insist on being heard, in fact sometimes claim superiority of
authority. Moreover, even those entirely unscientific hopes and
fears of which I spoke are not altogether to be neglected by the most
austere scientist ;
they themselves may be susceptible of scientific
treatment.
The second variable arises from the fact that up to now no
evidence has been forthcoming which is not susceptible of alternative
explanations, at least that is my opinion. My main thesis was that,
so far as one could judge, unequivocal evidence of survival was
extremely unlikely to occur. I agree with Dr Rhine in rejecting the
word " impossible " ; if I have unwittingly given the impression
that I consider impossibilities to be possible I most humbly apologise.
I regard dogmatism as the unforgivable sin. It may be that the
perfect case will be found at some future date, when the matter will
be settled one way or the other once and for all. It may be so, but
I doubt it.
In my reply to Sir Oliver Lodge I sketched my idea of the nearest
approach to such a case of which I could think, yet it was full of
loopholes. Of course it is possible that some entirely new type of
evidence may be found ; it may also be that as the result of further
research we shall be able to discover the conditions of occurrence, the
limitations and scope of action of telepathy, clairvoyance, etc., and
thus be able to estimate more accurately the relative probabilities
of the alternative explanations. It may be so—I hope it will be so
—
but I am rather doubtful. However, until this has been done I
consider that evaluation of the relative probabilities is and must be
a matter of individual idiosyncrasy. As I have said, I wish that
I could think otherwise. As regards Dr Rhine's second point
I need say little. I agree that if we can find evidence of new
conative activity it is of the highest importance because it
goes to disprove all theories based on persistence of memory
or mnemic fragments. I laid stress on this point in my report
on the Warren Elliott sittings. But as evidence of identity this
new purpose must be recognisable as being appropriate to the
ostensible communicator, and how else may this be done than by
showing it to be all of a piece with his character as manifested in his
habitual forms of thought and associations of ideas ? Dr Rhine, in
his original article, says, page 37, " It requires, of course, a basis of
evidence of mere fact which will establish supernormality first and
Jandaht 1934 Correspondence 111
identify the personality as well ". I take it we are in agreement
here ;
however, I think it possible that he puts a considerably narrower
meaning on my phrase than I do myself. Under habitual forms of
thought I would include practically the whole mental and moral
character, all that mentation which precedes and largely determines
action.
The third point whereon controversy arises is my treatment of his
imaginary case. Perhaps I did dismiss it with rather scant courtesy,
but I can plead the most honourable motives for doing so, to wit, the
desire to keep as short as possible an already too lengthy letter and
a diffidence to parade my views too extensively before your readers.
Under the circumstances which have now arisen, however, I must
overcome my natural modesty and attempt to analyse the case in a
manner which will not bear the reproach of " piecemeal ".
It is not stated whether the wife was supposed to know that the
sitting was to take place at that time. If one assumes that she did
know, it is quite conceivable that she might unconsciously convey
by telepathy either to the medium or the sitter the knowledge of her
condition, which knowledge was in her subconscious mind. The
tendency to dramatise which is so often exhibited might lead the
medium to produce this knowledge as a message from the deceased
husband. Given that the medium shared the ordinary spiritualistic
beliefs, this would be quite likely to happen. The " adequate identi-
fication " which is given is, on this hypothesis, presumably derived
from the same source, viz. the subconscious mind, of the wife.
If the wife was normally in ignorance of the sitting being held, we
must further postulate that she became subconsciously aware of
the fact either by telepathy from the sitter or the medium or else by
clairvoyance on her own behalf.
I admit that these suppositions may require an effort to swallow,
but they are not theoretically impossible. However, as I said in my
previous letter, the case is a good one and some ingenuity would be
required to explain it away.
This tentative analysis, which I do not, of course, claim to be the
only one possible or even the most plausible, illustrates the im-
portance of the question of what I have called linkage. It is on the
matter of the probability of the requisite linkages that individual
opinion is liable so much to differ, at least this has been my experi-
ence.
It occurs to me that perhaps the root of the matter between us
lies in my use of the word " idiosyncrasy ", and this idea is streng-
thened by the tone of Dr Ehine's concluding paragraphs and the
fact that he associates the word " prejudice " with idiosyncrasy.
Nothing was further from my mind than any such association. I
never intended to suggest—and I hope that the language which I
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
used gave no hint of any such suggestion—that conviction on this
matter was largely determined by prejudice. One would hardly
describe the antecedent inacceptability of the survival hypothesis
felt by a convinced Behaviourist or a materialistic physiologist as
prejudice. I should hesitate so to describe Prof. Dodds on the
one side (see his paper " Why I do not believe in Survival ") and Sir
Oliver Lodge on the other.
Dr Rhine cites various scientific problems, viz. Lamarckian in-
heritance, the corpuscular theory of light, etc., to which he says my
remark that apodeictic proof is impossible applies " in quite the same
way but not in the same degree " as it does to the problem of survival.
I quite agree, but would point out that in all such problems the
evidence is in the main confined to one branch of science, for example
the physicist in discussing the corpuscular theory is not subject to
objections from psychology or ethics, whereas on the matter of
survival psychical research is only one among a number of relevant
sciences. The problem of survival appears to me to partake more
of the nature of metaphysics than of science proper.
Moreover, in the case of most scientific problems there is an almost
complete absence of personal feeling ; whether light be corpuscular
or not may be of the highest interest, but the question hardly
touches our emotional nature, whereas our attitude towards survival
has repercussions on all our vital activities and interests. It is true
that emotion should not influence scientific judgment, but I think
that that is a counsel of perfection impossible of complete attain-
ment.
As I remarked at the outset, though Dr Rhine and I take rather
different views in the matter, my sympathies and desires are
entirely with him and against myself.
I am much obliged to Mr Irving for his letter. I now see that I
did not make it sufficiently clear what type of case I had in mind
when propounding my very tentative suggestion as to the manner
in which the personality of an ostensible communicator might be
built up. I was thinking of cases of the type of George Pelham in the
Piper sittings.
It is quite obvious that in the case of Mr Irving's communicator
" Dora ", any process of synthetic construction would be unneces-
sary, in fact impossible, seeing the character already existed fully
formed in his mind.
I am greatly indebted to him and Miss Dallas for bringing out this
point and thus showing a limitation of the possible scope of my
suggested hypothesis. I am by no means convinced that it has any
application at all ; it seemed to me to have a certain plausibility and
I ventured to put it forward in order that it might be discussed and
thereby either rejected or refined. It is therefore gratifying that
January 1934 Reviews 179
the process of refinement or rejection, whichever it turns out to be
in the long run, has commenced.
As Miss Dallas acutely observes, one would expect practice to
make perfect in communicating as elsewhere, and it seems that
absence of this factor of gradual improvement in performance is
rather a point against the spirit communication theory, though, in
our ignorance of the conditions, it cannot have much weight.
In the second case cited by Miss Dallas it is possible that there
was already subconscious knowledge of the " trouble " which
developed six years later, though it seems rather a long shot. But
the foreknowledge exhibited in predicting a cure is " a horse of quite
a different colour ". For some time past I have been making a close
study of the phenomena of precognition and have arrived at certain
tentative conclusions and formulated a rather speculative hypo-
thesis. My report is now before the Reference Committee, so that
for the moment I must beg permission to refrain from making any
comment on this point.
May I conclude by again thanking all my correspondents. It is
mainly by open discussion of topics such as these that we may hope
to obtain progress.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
REVIEWS
John William Graham, Psychical Experiences of Quaker Ministers.
8vo, pp. vi. 42. Friends' Historical Society, Friends' House,
Euston Road, London, N.W. 1, 1933. Price 2s.
J. W. Graham had been made President of the Friends' Historical
Society for the year 1932-3, but did not live to complete his year of
office, or to deliver his Address at the Annual Meeting. This booklet
contains the material which he had collected for his Presidential
Address, and the manuscript, obviously unfinished, has been
printed with no more than the necessary minimum of editing. In
an interesting Introduction Mr F. E. Pollard speaks of Graham's
longstanding interest in the S.P.R., his studies in the history of
Quakerism and his profound concern for the quality of the Quaker
ministry, as shown in his two most notable books, The Faith of a
Quaker and The Divinity in Man. In the latter book, George Fox's
remarkable experiences are described and are not repeated here.
It is a curious fact that all the material that could be found came
from a period before 1850, and mostly from the eighteenth century,
and nearly all of it comes from America, from the Eastern seaboard
States, which was the Quaker America of those days. " The final
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
date (writes Graham) roughly coincides with, the change in ministry
from the quietist type, where the instrument handed himself over to
an unseen inspirer and shunned the use of his own powers or his own
initiative, to the easier standards, the more conversational and more
mentally prepared ministry of to-day. This drives me to the thought
that though we have gained something intellectually, in consecutive
treatment and width of interest, in genuine grappling with our needs
and in simple helpfulness, we have also lost something in penetrating
power, in Divine endowment, in the strength that comes from for-
getting ourselves ".
The telepathic and other phenomena " are plainly connected with
the rest of the ministerial endowment of the seers, and that endow-
ment is a function of a keen and pervasive spiritual life, peculiar
among men, and carried out as part of the service of . . . the travel-
ling ministry of the Society of Friends to which, indeed, the
Society owed its origin in 1654. During the seventeenth century the
preachers were revivalists, and later they, like the early Wesleyans,
were constantly travelling about the country. It is noteworthy
that among the early Wesleyans, as among the Friends, women had
an equal share with men in the ministry ; but while the Friends
have always maintained this principle, it was abandoned by the
Wesleyans. There was also much travelling between England and
America, especially during the period 1770 to 1830, and the visiting
ministers, who depended chiefly on " inner guidance " as to where
and when they went, were often away from their own homes for
several years at a time. Their advice on all sorts of affairs, secular
or religious, was sought and much valued.
There seems to have been " a continuous sequence of religious
experience, beginning with the simple consciousness of fellowship
among worshippers . . . going on . . . to the faculty on the human
side of '
speaking to states '
[i.e. giving messages especially appro-
priate to the state of mind of individuals present] in family visiting or
in meeting . . . then to comprehension of distant states of spirit,
particularly of dangerous and needy situations, and, on the Divine
side, on to the visions of ineffable glory out of the body."
Graham does not maintain that the stories are up to the standards
of evidence of the S.P.R. But he says :
" They are generally taken
from the journals of the Friend to whom they occurred, and I choose
to believe them, being already convinced of the existence of the type
to which they belong, and of the care and honesty of the narrators,
with whom meticulous caution in assertion was a kind of passion."
We find similar phenomena recorded in The Acts of the Apostles ; for
instance, telepathic cases—to use the word "telepathic " in its widest
sense—in chaps, v. 3 ; ix. 10-16 ; x. 3-20 (a reciprocal case) ; and the
prophecies of Agabus, chaps, xi. 28 ; xxi. 11. As Graham implies,
January 1!)34 Reviews 181
the evidence collected by the S.P.R. for the existence of the type
must make these reports more credible than they might otherwise
be. The same may be said of many incidents recorded of St Francis
in the Fioretti and in the Speculum Perfectionis. He seemed to have
possessed to an extraordinary degree the power of " reading
"
people's minds, and many other religious leaders have shown signs
of the same power,—connected, perhaps, with the intense sympa-
thetic interest that they, like St Francis, felt for individuals.
One of the most remarkable cases described by Graham is that of
Thomas Say, of Philadelphia, who, while in a state of coma, had
telepathic impressions afterwards verified. The case occurred in
about 1725 and the account written by the percipient was published
in his Life, written by his son in 1796. The account, copied from this
book, was sent to us by Mr Graham in 1907, and was printed at length
in the Journal, xiii. 87-90.
I do not attempt here to summarise any of the cases, since they
must be read in detail to be appreciated ; but the booklet as a whole
can be strongly recommended to any one who is interested in the
relation between religion and psychical research.
AlICE Johnson
G. C. Barnard, The Supernormal. 8vo, pp. 256. London : Rider
and Co., 1933. Price 7s. 6d. net.
Mr Barnard in this book begins with science and, passing many
aspects of psychical research on the way, finally arrives at trans-
cendental consciousness and Oriental mysticism. The book presents
the facts in a straightforward way and many of the well-known
cases and the usual authorities are quoted.
In his opening chapter on " Science and the Supernormal " Mr
Barnard gives a very fair definition of the word " supernormal ",
which he considers " does not imply any more than that the pheno-
mena in question are highly unusual, and take place under con-
ditions and through agencies of whose nature we are ignorant
"
(pp. 15-16). On the other hand, he tells us on p. 15, after describing
what he considers fraudproof methods of examining mediums, con-
trolling conditions and recording phenomena, that the " evidence
for the analysis of water into Oxygen and Hydrogen is no stronger
than Schrenck-Notzing's evidence for the production of ectoplasm."
This remark is not only rather surprising to find in a " Critical
Introduction to Psychic Science ", but throws some light on Mr-
Barnard's notions of what are " reliable authorities ". Moreover,
are we to understand that the production of " ectoplasm " is not
supernormal ? The present reviewer must confess to being " im-
becile " enough " to cling irrationally to the conviction that it was
all fraud " in the case under consideration, that of Eva C.
H. B.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
Ann Montfort Symns, Dreams that Gome True: The Solution.
8vo, pp. 132. Sandy, Bedfordshire: Mead & Son, 1933.
Price 3s. 6d. net.
The recent experiment with regard to precognitive dreams under-
taken in conjunction with Mr Dunne, the author of An Experi-
ment with Time, has brought the question of precognition in
general, and precognitive dreams in particular, very prominently
before our notice. We cannot afford to dispense with any light
which can be thrown on so obscure a subject. We therefore welcome
Miss Symns's action in putting before the public some very curious
experiences of her own bearing on this question. She modestly
styles herself a " novice ", and one should not therefore expect her
evidence to be presented in quite the same way as that to which our
own Proceedings and Journal have accustomed us ; nor for that
matter was all Mr Dunne's material so presented.
Miss Symns attributes her experience to the working of what she
calls " super-mesmerists ", that is to say, minds of a superior order
to human minds but having similar telepathic powers in a higher
degree, and some parts of her book are frankly mystical.
W. H. S.
Geraldine Cummins, The Great Days of Ephesus, 8vo, pp. xvii. 212.
London : Rider and Co., 1933. Price 7s. 6d. net.
This volume contains another instalment of the " Cleophas
"
scripts. It includes a Foreword by a " distinguished theological
expert " and an Introduction by Miss E. B. Gibbes.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Boston Society for Psychic Research, Bulletin XXI, November 1933.
[The first half of this Bulletin, which is by Dr Prince, discusses
critically the evidence for the identity of supposed communicators,
relied on by or at best offered to the investigators in a certain type
of psychical research. The type in question is that in which a group
of sitters receive from professing communicators unknown to them
details of facts, such as dates and names, which can afterwards be
verified by reference to sources of information such as tombstones,
obituaries, etc. The criticism is that inadequate care is not taken
in the records of such cases to make it certain that the knowledge
shown was not already in the mind or memory, conscious or un-
conscious, of any member of the group, medium or sitters, before
verification. Various facts revealed in the records make this ex-
planation plausible. Among others it appears that the supposed
January 1934 Notes on Periodicals 183
communicator—a stranger to the circle—is not as a rule asked for
or selected by any member of the experimenting group, but offers
himself through a member acting the part of medium. There is at
present, it seems, a group of ladies carrying out at intervals during
the past four years a series of sittings at New York, of which results
have been published in various periodicals. These reports form as it
were the text for Dr Prince's paper, and he has added to its value by
comparing the New York series with others previously published
elsewhere. This comparison reveals as I understand some interest-
ing points. But space forbids my going further into details here
and I will only add that investigators desiring to study communi-
cations of the type here spoken of would do well to study Dr Prince's
criticism with care.
The second half of Bulletin XXI is occupied by reviews of four
important works on Spiritualism by Father Thurston, Mr Whately
Carington, Professor Driesch and Mr George Lawton.]
E. M. S.
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, Bulletin VI.
[This pamphlet is entitled " Official Science and Psychical
Research ", a heading under which it is not a little surprising to find
merely a report of the speeches delivered at a dinner. The longest
item is a speech by M. Rene Sudre, in which he surveys some of the
addresses given at the 1933 meeting of the British Association. A
photograph of the diners is included].
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, December 1933.
Dr Rudolf Bernoulli, News of the Investigation of Emanations.
—
Prof. Ludwig Jahn, The Prague Phenomena with special reference
to the Penetration of Matter.—H. Laucks, " Uk ". [On a haunt].
-
Prof. Ludwig, Monoideism or what ? —R. Tischner, The Haunt in
Munich at " Dr Karl Bruno's ".—Th. Ballauff, The Problem of the
Reality of Parapsychical Phenomena.—[From the " Short Notes
"
we learn with profound regret that Profs. Driesch and Oesterreich
have been retired from their Chairs in the Universities of Leipzig
and Tubingen respectively. The sympathy of all students of
psychical research and of all who believe in liberty of thought will be
extended to these two distinguished Germans.]
La Ricerca Psichica, November 1933.
E. Bozzano, Short History of " Raps ". [Concluded].—E. Beer,
Beyond Earthly Limits.—E. Servadio, The Final Helene Smith.
Th. B.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1934
^v^ucai "ISipeuvai, January-December 1933.
[The official organ of the Greek Society for Psychical Research has
now completed its ninth year, and we learn with satisfaction that
thanks to the generosity of Mme Alexandrine Choremy the financial
future of the Society and its journal is assured. The present volume
includes a series of articles by the indefatigable TJr Tanagra, in
which he elaborates his well-known theory of " psychobolia " and
discusses in the light of it a variety of ethical questions. There are
also a large number of brief reports and discussions on cases, some
taken from literary sources, others contributed by members of the
Society. Among the latter are two striking dreams about numbers,
apparently precognitive. In one of these (p. 30) the percipient
dreamed that he and a friend bought a lottery ticket numbered
30215 which won a 15,000 drachmas prize. He told his friends, who
shortly afterwards bought a ticket at random : the ticket proved to
bear the number 30215, and it won a prize of 5000 drachmas In the
other case (p. 78) the percipient dreamed the exact figures of the
voting in a local election a week before it took place. In both cases
the figures were written down and sent to a second person before the
percipient learned that his dream had been fulfilled. —Folklorists
who read modern Greek will be interested in a very curious collection
of narratives, mostly first-hand, illustrating the persistence in
Greece of the belief in the Evil Eye (pp. 43 ff., 57 ff.). They are
explained by Dr Tanagra psychobolically.]
E. R. D.
No. 502.—Vol. XXVIII. February 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 February 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
B
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febkuakt 1934
NEW MEMBERS.
Bruce, Rev. W. J. Wallace, Meath Park, Coleraine, Co. Londonderry,
N. Ireland.
Hume, Lieut- Colonel W. J. P., C.M.G., Brinksway, Lynchmere,
Sussex.
Rattey, C. C, 101 St Ermins, London, S.W. 1.
Rendell, Francis G., 19 The Drive, Henleaze. Bristol.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 312th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 11 January 1934, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : The Earl of
Balfour, Lord Charles Hope, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman, Investigation Office, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Report of the Council for 1933 was considered and adopted
as amended.
B.B.C. TALKS ON PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
We regret that through a misunderstanding Professor C. G.
Seligman was described in the notice appearing in the January
Journal, under the above heading, as presenting the opposition case.
Professor Seligman has addressed the following correction to Mr
Besterman. with a request that it be printed in the Journal, which
we have pleasure in doing :
" I do not consider there is any '
oppo-
sition ', we are both engaged in examining certain more or less
obscure happenings and hoping to come as near the truth as possible.
If I held any other view I should not. have undertaken to speak as I
know nothing of metapsychology. My studies have been limited to
matters which have come to my notice in the wards of hospitals or
in the course of my anthropological work."
Fkbeuaet 1934 Annual Report of the Council for 1933 187
ANNUAL EEPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1933
The Year 1933. During the year the Society has been able to carry
on a great deal of work of various kinds, of which an account will be
found below. This work would have been impossible, in the present
financial situation, had it not been for the great generosity of our
members ; the year is in fact notable for the number of donations
which the Society has received towards research, towards the print-
ing expenses, and towards the General Fund. Notwithstanding
these donations the financial position of the Society, reflecting as it
does the general economic depression, continues to give some cause
for anxiety. It is inevitable that the continued depression should
result in resignations, but we are glad to report these are fewer than
for several years. On the other hand, notwithstanding the depres-
sion, there is an increase of applications for membership, a welcome
sign of greater interest in the Society's work. Viewing the situation
broadly, the Council feel justified in taking a hopeful view of the
Society's future and in continuing an active policy of research of all
kinds.
Research. For several years recently the Council has had occasion
to regret the decline in the number of spontaneous cases reported,
both mental and physical. They are accordingly all the more glad
to observe that during the latter part of the year there are signs of
an increase, which they hope will continue. Visits have been paid
by Mr Besterman and Miss Newton to several places in London and
the provinces from which reports have been received, and the
Council wish to thank those members of the Society who have drawn
their attention to cases worth investigation.
The past year has been an exceptionally busy one. Last year Mr
Besterman took over the investigation of the Hacking case from
Mrs Sidgwick and Mr J. Arthur Hill, who had accumulated a con-
siderable amount of evidence in regard to it (see Journ. xxvi. 4).
This is the case in which communications have been obtained in Mr
BarwelFs private circle at Sheffield, with no professional medium
present, purporting to come from Mr Hacking, a deceased school-
master of Bury in Lancashire ; these communications contain a
considerable amount of detailed information. In December 1932
and January of this year Mr Besterman systematically examined and
arranged all the documents relating to the case, now numbering
about 400, including some of considerable length. He then entered
into communication with the persons chiefly concerned in the case,
made the personal acquaintance of several of them, and visited a
number of the towns involved. As a result of these investigations
he came to certain tentative conclusions, dependent upon the obtain-
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcfi February 1934
ing of a particular piece of information. It is at present impossible
to obtain this, and it is, therefore, still impossible to come to any
definite conclusion about this case, which, nevertheless, remains one
of the most unusual and interesting in the history of psychical
research. The details, unfortunately, remain too private for a
report.
In connection with the same investigation it may be noted with
satisfaction that Mr Barwell has generously promised to bequeath
to the Society all the original records of his circle, including those
relating to the Hacking case.
During the course of the journey mentioned above, Mr Besterman
inquired into two cases of haunted houses, one at Stafford and the
other near Rugby. Later in the year he visited Leicester in con-
nection with an unusual case of poltergeist type, in which water in
considerable quantities appeared, it is alleged in a supernormal
manner, at various points in the house. In the first two cases no
evidence of anything supernormal could be obtained. In the
Leicester case inquiries are still proceeding.
Members will recollect in the last Annual Report an announcement
that arrangements had been made between the Society and the
Institut Metapsychique of Paris for collaboration in the further
investigation of Rudi Schneider, as the Council felt that Dr Osty's
methods marked a welcome departure in the investigation of para-
physical phenomena. Mr Besterman, accompanied by Mrs Bester-
man, accordingly went to Paris at the end of February to take part,
on behalf of the Society, in a new series of sittings with Rudi
Schneider. Unfortunately the medium appeared to have temporarily
lost his powers, and accordingly the series had to be cut short after
two months. Rudi Schneider returned to Braunau, his native town,
and was followed there by Mr Besterman, in the hope that super-
normal phenomena might be encouraged by the familiar atmosphere
of the medium's home. This hope was realised to a slight extent,
but not sufficiently so to render advisable a return to Paris. Accord-
ingly Rudi Schneider was left to have a thorough rest, with a view
to giving a series of sittings to the S.P.R. in the autumn. In
September a party of members of the Society, consisting of Miss
Reutiner, Lord Charles Hope, Mr John Evelyn, Captain Cochrane-
Baillie, and Mr Besterman, went to Weyer, where the medium
resides since his marriage to Fraulein Mitzi Mangl. The object of
this visit was to see whether the medium's powers had returned
sufficiently to justify the projected visit to London. Several sittings
were held, and considerable and impressive phenomena, mainly of a
telekinetic kind, were witnessed. Rudi Schneider accordingly came
to London, and has been giving sittings regularly in the Society's
seance-room since the beginning of October. The sittings will con-
February 1934 Annual Report of the Council for 1988 189
tinue for six months, and it is therefore too early to say anything
concerning them at the moment.
The collaboration with the Institut Metapsychique was a com-
paratively costly matter for both bodies. It would consequently
nave been impossible for the Society to continue the investigation
but for the generous financal help given by Lord Charles Hope and
several of his friends, as well as a grant from the Myers Memorial
Fund. From the technical point of view, difficulties would have been
experienced but for the continuous and very able assistance given
by Mr Oliver Gatty, who has also undertaken to find a considerable
sum of money to permit of the continuation of the sittings into the
New Year. These facts again illustrate the extent to which the
Society is dependent on the assistance of its members for the proper
carrying out of its functions.
While abroad, in connection with the investigation of Rudi Sch-
neider, Mr Besterman was enabled, by the generosity of Mr Christo-
pher Wood, to proceed to Warsaw in company with Dr Osty, for
the purpose of having sittings with various mediums. From this
point of view the journey was unfruitful, the phenomena of the new
medium, with whom it had been hoped principally to experiment,
not proving satisfactory. Mr Besterman was able, however, to make
the personal acquaintance of a considerable number of Poles con-
cerned in psychical research. The first fruit of this is the report on
an experiment with M. Ossowiecki, published in Proceedings, xli.
345-351.
Further gramophone records of Mrs Leonard's trance were made
during the year, with the kind co-operation of the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas. One of these records, illustrating the communicating per-
sonality of the " Rev. John Thomas", is available for purchase by
members. At the same time as these records were made there was an
attempt by Mr Gerald Heard and Mr Besterman to investigate the
direct voice alleged to occur in sittings with Mrs Leonard, by means
of a method suggested by Dr Irons and Mr Soal and with the co-
operation of the Gramophone Company's technical staff. This has
been reported on in the Journal, xxviii. 84.
Lord Charles Hope has also kindly allowed a record made for him
of the trance breathing of Rudi Schneider to be reproduced for sale
to members.
Owing to the various activities described above and to the con-
siderable amount of routine work, on some of which it is hoped to
report later on, Mr Besterman made comparatively little progress
with his investigation of records of Mrs Leonard's mediumship.
Nor has he yet been able to write his report on the experiment
in the evaluation of free material obtained in trance medium-
ship.
cs o o c OS = c m o 5 c OS CM 1-1 ITS c
s _ CO to 00 o ° «5
— OS 00 OS 00 3 — c rH CO X [ - rH 00 —
'
— X C 5
1
OS
rH
o o o to
00 1—1
OS
CO
cm X
CO
CO
-t-
N
I—i
if5 cs
fi t
c CM
1 - CO CO
OS ifl
rH
1
-
CO
s 5C 00 lO
rH
—j
C CO
CM
CM CO CM
c
00
CO
I - OS
OS OS
: i
v. 3 C
!««
<J ° CD
5 -gi
" CD
lo
13
«?
Si
ft?
^ r/-'
O
.. da "
I
—
1
.5 x
S !
ft. ,
to
S ©
42 ^
1
o o
O 00
O CD
O CO
CO ^
.§ §,.2
S "8 rS
cq ft, £
00.
to «!
&3
"jr.
.Si i5
*- 2?
© s
£ |
*~
S3
I
a
^ ©>
' - & '
1 a;
53 Si ,
s>
C O O t
•> U >- ii
•5"- ft, ,
•»? « -s &
14 §1
c a s; a; o tij fc, &5 »j a
S 5
a *;
5 §
11
S|
"<s>
: 1
:
s ^ g s w
r-( CM O O
r- O O rH
CI O
00 if)
rH
00 O
n c t c "t
CO O r-i L':
»-o o o o
oo ir: i-h ci
III 1
-
o cs 1
- o 1 <
0 CM ' o OS to iiii oo CM
o o CO = CO c 00 rs
o
t+1
o
l>
o LC5 CO
CM
CO CO CM o CM
ITS
CM
GO
UO
Cl CO ^ CO CO
C: Q Q O
P.
X
K
j= .s
£ § 6
S £ °
X —
CO ^
Is
i
o
s
6-i ?
2 g
s
•S S s
I
^ ^ .2
S S £Q Q
o ^
§ 3
i ^
j; .2
CD 0) ^ •
oo oo Ph
3 '«
-
Sot,
© HO
<a g ts
ftj 5 tg o ft)
a CO
~ 00 C5 o
to
tH —
H
<n 00 1^
CO 1 ^
CM CO
00
—
:~ CO
<N
B
"to'
1'
•2 S -2
13
°
i 1
In? ,
Si x
-« s
1
e
u p
s o
H
O
o
02
la 5
Qj a Ct £
O
o
1—
t
O r -H o
H
lO
© Cs
; i
TH
£377
00 01
LO
-
0) Q
'
23 3
Ci «)
rH <1>
a ri oi
SI'S
r-H o <0
M < >.
"§ -B H
S£ c »
SI'S O i
=5 »
© —
« P
•
1
1
^ Q 3
Co w
1
^ P CD
•1 -i
5^
; s O
i S
6q cq co K?
so o <o
M O ifl
f- o o
01 O
5*1
o
OS
-
2«
CO
TO
??
i—
i
§
ft?
a?
—
i
s.
Si
8
ft?
fen
So
C
r
o
A
p
1-3
<
—
P?
c
-
o
I—
I
M
W
Q
W
p?
o o = c
c
CO c •*
o c
CO to
3
O
S a) «
^ £, o
•S H -2
CO CJ
- _
, CD
T—
I
CO &
« .5
S'a *s
•8 &
a
Si
PCI
in c 00 — o
o
o o I-H
CO -t-
lO ©
OS c
SO C
rH 00
s 6;
£ < <
5 n
o o
1««
a?
ft?
S
>
ft?
g
Eh
><
s;
I
to o
04 O
o o
ttf CO
.. 3
co O
CO
2 O
:
§ § g
j
co §
s « «
- S w
a ,§ >.
o . o
'4 .§ n
OS
ts>
s
Ss
| 3
.S
a
CO
CO CO CO
CO
CO 0
CM CO
c+i c+i
" 3
IN O
a
-
O
So
g s
1—1
IO
O 5?
|
l£5 ,3
O
03
J3 C
S *
- « -g
ft
^ - :3
a 5?
op 2
co n x:
j u to i3
o o o -3 O
CO "g -W fe
^
3 «=
? -c
e3 03
z
_
:
2l|
M H ft
| | 5 |
2 I a a §
3 2 ^
b o & fi
"
5 o
5 p w
^ 3
1
a a
o — o o c
o o o o o o o o o o
o X o o 00 -t o o
s o o CR o — - "O
-
o r CM r -
-< =*! =+1
•-i
o
CO
c
S°0
ia CO
o o
o o
O O
l£S ICS
1^ CM
• 8 o
y£ O c
O CO
s « «
~ -S g
o - ^ o
3 cj S O
'lJ .3 ^
o o £ CO
3 « S £
1 * a? 1
£>.>.£>,
^ CS d V ±>
ca -
O H
tea
o s.:
a
2i
-
K
S 1
05 cc
3 05 05
O o
S -a
« 3 ft S
5 I
< z.
o ^
2 P=
5 5
« 03 CO
> 5 xf -a
"
so d C2
1
^ S ce
as "O 13
"S 3 c
QJ cS
a 3j a oi 05
ft 3
O "3
_ £' x =
o _ c3 ^
§1^3
^ © >>'§
"
7 i.'-
~ 3 3 m
CM CM CO 00
oj o c~ o
!s o o
3 = T3
3 3 3
COO
CO >-? h-1
CO C7 O
ia o
» oi
5+1
o o
o o
o o
O O O f~ CM
O O O CO so
X CM Ol OS LO
o o
c o
o o
** 01
IO »-o
4)
oo 3 co w
O S ° »
5 O g
a -3 ct
P-l « -3
g CO
° -o 73
33 u
O O b
rj uo o
CM C
CI CO
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1934
A series of experiments, which seem likely to prove of consider-
able importance, has been initiated by Mr Whately Carington.
These consist in applying Word Association tests, including whenever
possible observation of the psycho-galvanic reflex, to mediums (a)
in their normal state and (b) under control. If mediumistic Controls
and Communicators are really secondary personalities of the medium
then the responses to the tests in the two states might be expected
to be substantially identical, while Mr Carington showed {Proc,
xxxi. 401) as long ago as 1921, that tests of this kind are capable of
distinguishing normal individuals from each other. The results
obtained should accordingly throw considerable light on the psy-
chological status of the personalities concerned.
A series of sittings has been held with Mrs Garrett and her Control
" Uvani", and another series is in progress with Rudi Schneider and
" Olga". In both these cases the data have been collected by Mr
Besterman for analysis by Mr Carington.
A third series of tests (with Mrs Leonard) has been rendered poss-
ible through the kind co-operation of Mr Drayton Thomas, who has
not only generously placed a number of his sittings at the disposal
of the research, but is himself collecting the data, and has enlisted
the very valuable co-operation of two of the Communicators who
habitually control at his Sittings. In this case, therefore, no fewer
than four different personalities (counting Feda) of three different
types are under observation, and it is hoped that results of great
comparative interest may be obtained.
The data obtained in these investigations are in process of a most
laborious analysis, but it is hoped that results will be available for
publication in the course of the next two or three months.
Library. The number of books, pamphlets, and volumes of peri-
odicals in the library now stands at 7368, an increase of 92 during
the year. In addition to the volumes consulted in the library, 78
members borrowed 479 volumes ; 55 volumes were borrowed by
the National Central Library. Several books were obtained for
members through that library.
Myers Memorial Lecture. As mentioned in the Annual Eeport for
1932, the Council invited Dr Osty to deliver the Third Myers Memor-
ial Lecture in 1933, and were fortunate enough to receive his accept-
ance. Dr Osty visited England towards the end of October and
delivered his lecture, illustrated with lantern slides, and entitled
" Les Aspects supranormaux de l'energie et de la matiere", on
25 October. An English translation of the Lecture, which aroused
great interest, has been printed and can be obtained from the
Society, price 2s. Many of our members were very glad to have
this opportunity of meeting Dr Osty, whose work has always been
followed with close interest in England.
February 1931 Annual Report of the Council for 1933 195
Presidency. The Council elected the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., as President of the Society for the year, and she delivered
her Presidential Address on 27 September. It has been published
in Part 132 of Proceedings.
Changes among the Officers and Council. Mr Fletcher having re-
signed his seat on the Council and also the office of Hon. Treasurer,
Mrs Lyttelton was appointed an elected member of Council in his
place, and Mr Salter became Acting Hon. Treasurer.
In view of the large amount of research work which the Society
is doing abroad and with foreign mediums, in all of which Mr Bester-
man has played an important part, the Council considered that it
would be desirable, without making any change in Mr Besterman's
position as Librarian and Editor, to give him also some title which
should recognise his connection with research. They accordingly,
in September, appointed him Investigation Officer, and also ap-
pointed Lord Charles Hope and Mrs Salter as Consultant Investi-
gators. The Council wish to re-affirm what they have said on
previous occasions, that they hope and expect that every member
of the Society will engage actively in research so far as he or she
can, and that one of the main functions of the Officers of the
Society is to promote and co-ordinate research among non-official
members.
Obituary. During the past year the Society has lost by death
many members who by long membership or active work have
supported the Society. These include Mrs Abernethy, Mrs W. W.
Baggally, Mr A. R. Bonus, Lady Conway, Katharine Countess of
Cromer, Miss A. V. Dutton, Dr S. Ferenczi, Mrs C. B. Fernald, Mr
C. H. Homan, Mr G. R. S. Mead, Mr E. T. Nisbet, the Rev. H.
Northcote and Mr 0. S. Tudor. The total number of deaths was
eleven Members, and eight Associates.
Membership of the Society. During the year 49 new Members
were elected and one Associate became a Member. The total loss in
numbers from deaths, resignations and other causes was 45 Members
and 21 Associates, leaving a net increase of four Members and a de-
crease of 21 Associates. The total membership of the Society now
stands at 759.
Student Associates. While the Council are unable for financial
reasons to rescind entirely the Resolution they passed several years
ago declining to elect new Associates, they have thought it desirable,
in order to stimulate interest in the Society's work among the
younger generation, particularly students at Universities, to relax
this rule so as to entertain applications for election as Associates
from persons not less than 18 years of age, who shall undertake on
attaining 25 either to become full Members or to resign. The
Council will be glad if members of the Society will make this resolu-
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1934
tion widely known among any persons of the age indicated who may
show an interest in psychical research.
Publications. Five parts of Proceedings were published during the
year : Part 128 in January, Part 129 in March, Part 130 in May,
Part 131 in June, and Part 132 in December.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £52 4s. 9d.
and to members of the Society £20 17s. The returns from the
Society's agent in America amounted, after deduction of com-
mission, to £12 4s. 6d.
Meetings. The following meetings have been held during the
year :
25 Jan. " Some Communications of a Personal Kind received
through Miss Geraldine Cummins", by Miss E. B.
Gibbes.
22 Feb. " The Positive Implications of Telepathy ", by W.
Whately Smith (now Whately Carington).
29 Mar. " Some Unprinted Cases illustrating Difficulties of In-
vestigation ", by Mrs W. H. Salter.
26 April " Psychical Research and the Written Word", by Mr
Stephen Chant.
31 May " Why I do not believe in Survival ", by Professor E. R.
Dodds.
28 June " The Thomas Case (Proxy Sittings with Mrs Leonard)",
by Mrs Lydia W. Allison.
27 Sept. Presidential Address by the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E.
25 Oct. Third F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture. " Les Aspects
supranormaux de l'energie et de la matiere ", by Dr
Eugene Osty.
29 Nov. " The Clairvoyance of M. Stefan Ossowiecki," by Mr
Theodore Besterman.
February 1934 Correspondence 197
CORRESPONDENCE
Speculations about Telepathy.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have rarely seen in the Society's publications as able,
lucid and illuminating an utterance as that by Mr W. Whately
Carington entitled " Implications of Telepathy " (Journal, xxviii.
57-64). It seems to me to clarify thought on the whole subject.
It is an excellent example of the advantage of applying methods of
common-sense and logical reasoning to vague and loose current
ideas.
Nevertheless, with entire humility, and claiming, as will, I fear,
be but too apparent, no special knowledge, I venture to offer a few
comments upon Mr Carington's observations. Among the pro-
positions which Mr Carington describes as " erroneous ", he cites
first that " Telepathy is an accepted fact of Science ". Now if
he means no more than that telepathy has not yet attained the
status of being accepted as a fact by the whole body of science, like
gravity, or the revolution of the Earth on its axis, I suppose this
remark is true enough. But if telepathy is not in that full sense
an accepted fact of " science ", I suggest that it is, notwithstanding,
a familiar fact of daily existence about which many scientists have
not, and none need have, any doubt as a fact, as a phenomenon,
however doubtful they be as to its real nature, as to the laws of its
operation, and as to the suitability of the name by which it is at
present known. Erom personal everyday experience, I myself
have no doubt of it at all. I have seen it in obvious operation on
more occasions than I could remember or count. I once made a
friend sitting opposite me in a railway carriage commence whistling
two tunes, one after another, by merely thinking about them with
that object. I once—I am headmaster of a school—demonstrated
to a member of my staff, from three or four human subjects taken at
random on the spot, how easy it is mentally to influence the mind
of a child to give or not to give a certain answer in certain circum-
stances. I use this knowledge daily, as a commonplace, as I use
blackboard chalk. Animals provide plenty of instances of tele-
pathy. I have had at least one clear instance of a thought of mine
being mentally read and verbally answered by the control of a
medium. (And yet, repeated attempts to influence a medium by
thought have invariably produced no apparent result !
)
Myers, on page 207 of Human Personality (abridged edition),
says, " It has now . . . been actually proved that the hypnotic
trance can be induced from a distance so great, and with precautions
so complete, that Telepathy, or some similar supernormal influence
is the only efficient cause which can be conceived."' On page 539
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1934
he says, " The subject's power of response to a question " (by a
person not the hypnotist) " was shown to be under the control of
the unspoken will of the hypnotist." In Dr Milne Bramwell's
work on hypnotism, experiments are described in which a patient
in one room answered questions mentally put to him by the operator
in another room, and another in which the operator, sitting in his
own house, willed his subject, sitting in another house, to rise, leave
his house, and come to that of the operator, competent witnesses
having been pre-arranged in both houses. So much for " science " !
It seems to be a case of " Sae much the warse for the coo !
"
The third disputed proposition is that " Telepathy is in some way
like, or akin to, '
Wireless ' ". Well, is the " akin-to-wireless
"
hypothesis quite as absurd as it appears to be after Mr Carington
has destructively dealt with it ?
Mr Carington says that "... as a matter of plain anatomical
fact, there exists no bodily organ, whether a part of the nervous
system or not, of which the striicture even remotely suggests that
it could in any circumstances act as a generator of electro-magnetic
radiation having the intensity and penetrative power required."
Why intensity ? What is to be penetrated ? We do not know.
Besides—structure . . . perhaps not ; but how about functions ?
I was informed recently by a medical man that it has now been
definitely proved that nerve currents are electrical in their nature.
And very natural too, for it seems as if few things in Nature are
anything else. It would therefore seem that a muscular contraction
is due to chemico-electric energy generated in the muscular tissues
which is evoked or induced by an electrical nerve current generated
by the brain or the spinal cord.
If I understand the general process of wireless aright, it is this :
that certain waves (admittedly at their source very powerful) are
distributed by the broadcasting aerials ; these radiate concentrically
and doubtless in accordance with the Law of Inverse Squares to
which Mr Carington alludes. But there is no limit to the distance
of their radiation. There is no one point at which they cease.
They presumably reach Mars, or Pluto, or, for that matter, the stars
of Orion, unless intercepted or deflected, as really, however attenu-
ated and faint, as they do Brighton or Capetown or Yokohama.
Their capability of being " picked up " is limited only by the
limitations of sensitiveness of any instruments designed to receive
them. But—this is an important point—the loud speaker is not
caused to vibrate by these picked-up waves from the Ether, which
are themselves far too weak to do such work, but by variations or
oscillations induced by these faint waves in the much more powerful
current supplied locally to the set by the battery or the domestic
source of electric supply.
February 1934 Correspondence 199
Now if the brain can generate nerve-currents which, in their
turn, evoke such a formidable quantity of energy as that involved
in raising a sack of wheat on the shoulders, is it so absurd to suppose
that it may be capable of producing induced intensifications, not
necessarily at all powerful, of currents, waves, vibrations, call
them what you will, which have first been picked up by some more
refined and delicate sensitiveness in some more obscure stratum
of our personality 1 Is it quite absurd to postulate that thought-
impulses are . . . shall I coin a word, to be on the safe side, and
say electroform ?
Mr Carington uses a rather powerful argument when he says,
<;
The essential feature of every normal method of communication
whatsoever is the use of signs, signals or symbols ... in accordance
with an explicitly or implicitly recognised code." He goes on to
say that the radiation theory, or any physical theory, requires
some process of encoding and decoding automatically, uncon-
sciously, and with respect to an unknown code, and this he calls
" fantastic to the point of incredibility ". But it is exactly these
things which we, so entirely ignorant as we are of all strata of the
personality outside the physically conscious, are not entitled to assert.
Moreover, I suggest that we only really need signs and symbols
when we require to communicate by word of mouth, by writing,
by signalling, or by other physical means, with beings whose
conscious reception of our ideas is limited to similar means. We
think, chiefly though not wholly, in unspoken words : but is not
this because we are so used to expressing our thoughts aloud in
words or to writing them ? Would Mr Carington suggest that an
untaught deaf-and-dumb person does not think because he has
learnt no sounds or symbols ? But if he does think, how does he
do it ? AVithout such sounds and symbols, of course.
If we believe in the existence of any non-material aspect or phase
or stratum of personality, and I think Mr Carington does, we must
postulate thought without signs, symbols and codes, without
tongues, ears, or fingers—thought which is just as real as if it were
spoken, thought which, in a non-material state of existence, not
only can be but must be communicable and understandable without
these physical aids, or perhaps I should say obstacles.
Finally, it has often been asked, why the mind of A should be
capable of receiving telepathic impressions and not that of B ?
Why can X receive them from Y and not from Z ? Again the
" wireless " analogy seems to hint an explanation. Is not the
truth quite possibly that while A, B, and X all receive them equally,
A's instrument is more capable than B's of reproducing them in
the conscious part of his brain, and that X can do this better in
the case of impulses received from Y than he can in the case of
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fbbruart 1934
those received from Z ? Transmitters, or Agents, may vary in their
powers of transmission, just as receivers, or Percipients may vary,
not in their powers of reception but in those of intensification and
of transfer to the Conscious.
Yours, etc.,
Alan Howgrave-Graham.
On the Possibility of Proving Survival.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —May I make a brief comment on Mr Saltmarsh's suggestion
that the absence of gradual improvement is "a point against
"
spirit communications ? This might be so if it was a universal
experience, which it is not. That my later proxy sittings for the
same person produced less evidential matter than the first and
second may be due to the fact that the medium's mind was no longer
a tabula rasa. In the particular case I have in mind at first both the
medium and I were totally ignorant of the person whose communica-
tion was desired and almost equally ignorant of the recipient—a lady
in Canada I had never met. After success had been obtained there
was more scope for inferences, which experience shows are liable to
be made by the medium or the sitter. These inferences are unin-
tentionally misleading, they are frequently erroneous and thus con-
fuse the issue. If the passivity of the medium is disturbed by her
own marginal thoughts the communicator finds obstruction in his
way.
Yours, etc.,
Helen Alex. Dallas.
No. 503.—Vol. XXVIII. March 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 March 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"TELEPATHY AND THE LISTENER-IN"
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs W. H. SALTER
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
B
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1934
NEW MEMBERS
Dewar, Canon Lindsay, 9 Precentor's Court, York.
Fischer, Samuel, 305 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Gilchrist, Warren, c/o Messrs J. W. Jagger & Co. Ltd., 60 St George's
Street, Cape Town, S.A.
Hannen, E. C, Ouseleys, Wargrave, Berks.
Hercocl, Ernest, Hotel Schweizerhof, Basle, Switzerland.
Paget, Captain A. W. L., 19 Bryanston Square, London, W. 1.
Paget, Mrs A. W. L., 19 Bryanston Square, London, W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 313th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1 , on Thursday, 15 February 1931, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C, Professor E. R, Dodds, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secre-
tary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Rev. W. S. Irving was elected an Hon. Associate of the
Society.
The 314th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 February, at 3 p.m., Mrs W. H.
Salter in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. H. Salter,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., Miss Nea Walker, and, later,
the President ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Investigation Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The 315th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, immediately after the Annual General Meeting,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
March 1934 Meetings of the Council 203
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton. G.B.E., was re-elected President
for the year 1934.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary and acting Hon.
Treasurer ; and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour,
Professor C. D. Broad, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, and Mr W.
Whately Carington.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson. Mr G. W.
Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr Sydney C. Scott,
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1934 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr S. Freud, Pro-
fessor Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem,
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Dr Walter F. Prince, Professor Charles Richet, Dr Rudolph Tischner.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, Rev. A. T. Fryer, David
Gow, J. Arthur Hill, Rev. W. S. Irving, Professor J. H. Muirhead,
Professor Charles Sage, Miss F. Melian Stawell, Dr A. Tanagras.
Dr Th. Wereide.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 February
1934. at 5.30 p.m.. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Mrs Ball, Mr Theodore
Besterman, Mrs Theodore Besterman, Miss Carruthers, Mrs Goldnev
Miss G. Hvnes, Miss S. Boucher James, Dr Eva Morton, Miss I.
Newton, Mr W. S. Rowntree, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt. Rev. C. Drayton Thomas. Mr G. N.
Tyrrell, and Miss Nea Walker.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
President invited discussion on the Report of the Council, which,
with the audited statement of Accounts, had already been cir-
culated to members. There being no response, Mr W. H. Salter,
Acting Hon. Treasurer, made his financial statement.
In presenting the accounts for the year, Mr Salter drew attention
to two passages in the Annual Report, (1) the paragraph showing
that for the first time for several years the new Members elected
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Makch ui34
exceeded the loss of Members by resignation and death, and (2) the
reference to the donations received by the Society during 1938 for
printing, for apparatus, for research, and for general purposes.
Since the Report had been printed the Society had received from
a member who wished to remain anonymous an extremely generous
donation of £1,000, to be applied for particular objects of research,
including both parapsychical and paraphysical phenomena. With
this donation the Society could confidently continue an active policy
of research. Mr Salter reminded Members that the Society's lease
expired in 1937, so that it might then be necessary to make a general
appeal to meet the expenses that would arise. If that should be
necessary, he hoped that Members would bear in mind the generosity
with which the needs of research had been met, and respond to the
appeal in the same spirit of liberality.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council other than the six members
who retired by rotation. The following six members were re-elected
accordingly : Mr. G. W. Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs Henry
Sidgwick.
Messrs Hartleys, Wilkins, Avery and Flew were re-elected
Auditors for the forthcoming year.
CORRESPONDENCE
Precognition and Psychoanalysis
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir. —Reading Mr Saltmarsh 's interesting and able " Report on
Cases of Apparent Precognition," I was led to wonder, not for the
first time, why the psychical researcher and the psychoanalyst pay
so little heed to each other's work. Mr Saltmarsh does mention
Freud at least twice. But in more than one respect he fails, as it
seems to me, to appreciate the bearing of Freud's findings upon the
evidence under discussion.
Arguing against the view that apparent precognitions are due to
coincidence, Mr Saltmarsh states (p. 69) that " the number of
subjects which may be dreamed about is practically infinite ", and
draws the inference that " the chances that any particular subject
will enter into the dream on any particular night are very small."
The statement is true ; the inference, for anyone who accepts the
main results of Freud's work, is as a universal assertion false. The
dream is not a card drawn at random from a practically infinite pack.
March 1934 Correspondence 205
It is a symbolic drama, determined as to its latent content by a
fundamental emotional situation. The number of such fundamental
situations is, as every habitual novel reader knows, severely limited ;
and analysis has shown that thousands of dreamers use the same
symbols to express essentially similar situations. Failure to allow
for this may be a serious source of error in estimating the evidential
force of particular dreams which are claimed as supernormal. Thus
in discussing Mrs C's dream about the monkey (P. xi. 488), Mr Salt-
marsh observes that " dreams of being followed by a monkey are
surely very rare, at any rate for persons living in this country."
I have no statistics on the question ; but I nevertheless venture to
contradict Mr Saltmarsh flatly. Analysis shows that dreams sym-
bolising sexual assault are exceedingly common in women ;
pursuit
by an animal is among the symbols most often employed in such
dreams ; and a monkey is for obvious reasons a peculiarly appro-
priate animal to choose. My own guess would be that on the night
of Mrs C's dream at least a hundred women in London dreamed of
being chased by monkeys. If this were accepted, the coincidence
involved would be reduced to the fact that the real monkey, finding
himself at liberty, followed one of these hundred or more women.
This, though still rather remarkable, would be far less so than many
events which are known to have been produced by pure chance—e.g.
the case, recorded in the press a year or two ago, of a man who
bought at random one ticket in each of three successive " Irish
sweeps and with each ticket won a prize. (It is irrelevant to the
above argument whether we assume that Mrs C's dream was in fact
determined by the " sexual assault " motif. It may not have been,
though the excessive fear by which it was accompanied strongly
suggests that it was.)
Similar criticism might be applied to some of the other cases
quoted by Mr Saltmarsh. And the evidential value of one whole
class of dreams—viz., those which appear to exhibit supernormal
knowledge of the contemporary or future death of a friend or relative
—seems to be in some measure weakened by the fact that dreams
directly expressive of a " repressed death-wish " towards beloved
persons are now recognised to be relatively common. This fact may
also serve to explain, at least in part, the strikingly high percentage
of death-coincidences among the total number of cases adduced as
evidence of precognition. If I dream, or day-dream, more often of
X's death than of, let us say, his appointment to a professorial chair.
I have on the coincidence theory a better chance of " precognising
"
the former event ; while on the precognition theory the information
supernormally acquired by my subconsciousness has probably a
better chance of reaching my conscious self if it happens to fulfil a
subconscious wish. In saying this I do not overlook Mr Saltmarsh's
20G Journal of Society for Psychical Research March i«J34
observation that the proportion of death-precognitions to other
precognitions is significantly higher in hallucination cases than it is
even in dreams. This fact is, I think, quite simply grounded in the
nature of hallucinations as such. Hallucinations ot inanimate ob-
jects, of complex events or of complex situations are comparatively
rare : most hallucinations take the form of a phantasmal figure or a
phantasmal voice. If the figure or voice is identified as that of a
person X, and X dies within a short time, this is claimed as a pre-
cognition. If some other event happens to X. such as marrying or
obtaining an appointment, no precognition will as a rule be claimed
except (a) in the rare case of the hallucination including an explicit
reference to the event, (6) in certain " arrival " cases. Hence we
should expect in hallucinations the exceptionally high proportion
of death precognitions which Mr Saltmarsh finds. We should also
expect an exceptionally high proportion of " arrival " cases ; and
this too we find (14-5 % in hallucinations, against 4-4% in other
modes of apprehension, according to the table on p. 55).
Lastly, Mr Saltmarsh expresses surprise that the amount of sym-
bolism in his precognitive cases is not greater (p. 58). But one may
suspect that in such cases the event precognised has itself within the
dream or phantasy the function of a symbol. In normal dreams the
" latent content " which is expressed symbolically is connected with
the personal situation of the dreamer ; and Freud 1
finds that this
is equally true of telepathic dreams, telepathy determining not the
latent content but the choice of a symbol to express it. Similarly
in precognitive dreams, if precognition be a reality, I should expect
the manifest content of the dream to bear a symbolic relation to the
dreamer's personal situation, and a direct relation to the event pre-
cognised. Mr Saltmarsh would thus be looking for symbolism in the
wrong place.
Yours, etc..
E. R. Dodds.
1
New Introductory Lectures on Psycho- Analysis, p. 53.
March 193} Reviews 207
REVIEWS
Nandor Fodor, Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science. Preface by Sir
Oliver Lodge. 4to, pp. lv. 416. London : Arthurs Press,
Limited [1934].
Dr Fodor is to be congratulated on having produced a work of
reference which must have cost an immense amount of patient
labour, and is likely for many years to come to be of great assistance
to students of psychical research, especially to those who use the
work primarily as a means of increasing their information by con-
sulting the original sources.
The articles may be roughly classified under two headings, one,
historical, including biographies of psychical researchers and
mediums, and also accounts of the different Societies and publica-
tions which deal or have dealt with psychical research and spiritual-
ism, and, two, theoretical. In his Preface Sir Oliver Lodge says
" though his [Dr Fodor's] scepticism does not come quite up to
S.P.R. standard, it may be said that he has not excluded hostile
opinion, and on the whole has surveyed the whole subject with
fairness and ability." After reading fairly widely in the Encyclo-
paedia we are prepared to endorse this cautious judgment with
certain reservations. It would be impossible to write biogmphies of
mediums that every student of psychical research and spiritualism
would accept as impartial ; it is no mean feat on Dr Fodor's part
to have produced several biographies that would meet with general
acceptance, but occasionally in dealing with particular mediums he
errs on the side of leniency in just the same way as in dealing with
some of the critics of physical phenomena, and especially critics
belonging to our Society, he seems to suffer from a hostile bias.
As examples of undue leniency we may mention the articles on
Mrs Crandon, Eva O, and the late William Hope. Mrs Crandon has
a long article in which adequate mention is made of Mr Dudley's
discovery of the Kerwin " thumbprints ", but mention should in
this connexion also have been made of the print of the medium's
own thumb made on a piece of wax in the Society's seance-room
while she was supposed to be so controlled as to be out of reach of
the wax : see Proceedings, xxxix. 358-368. Nor should Dr Fodor
talk of the Margery " cross-correspondences " as " less vulnerable ",
i.e., than the thumbprints, owing to their " fraud-proof technique
",'
without referring to the demonstration in Proceedings, xxxviii.
399-408, that the alleged
' ;
fraud-proofness " was illusory.
Under Eva O, Dr Fodor's treatment of the charges of fraud during
her Algerian period is unsatisfactory ;
they were much more serious
than could possibly be gathered from Dr Richet's reference which is
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1934
all that Dr Fodor quotes : see Proceedings, xxvii. 333-369. In this
instance, and in several others, the reader may justly complain that
he has not been brought into direct touch with the original and
authoritative sources. Mention should also be made of the photo-
graphs discovered among Dr Geley's papers at the Paris Institut
after his death. Although these have never been published their
existence, and their significance, are matters of common knowledge.
William Hope also gets off far too easily. Dr Fodor admits that
the 1922 exposure was " on the surface damning for Hope ". (Inci-
dentally this exposure was printed in the Joumal for that year and
not in Proceedings, as stated by Dr Fodor.) In order, however, to
remove this slur on Hope, Dr Fodor endorses one of the misstate-
ments made at the time by Hope's defenders, namely, that the
packet containing the plates " was lying about for four weeks in the
offices of the S.P.R." The author could easily have ascertained the
untruth of this statement if he had enquired, as he should have done,
of the Society's officials. Nor is it fair to speak of Major Rose's and
Mr Barlow's case against Hope {Proceedings, xli.) as " largely built
on surmise and suspicion and not on facts ", as any of our readers
can judge for themselves by reading the paper in question.
The biographies of psychical researchers are mostly shorter and
should prove useful. If some important researchers receive little or
no biographical notice, that is perhaps due to their own modesty
rather than to any fault of Dr Fodor's.
Turning to the accounts of Societies, we naturally look first to see
what the author has to say of the S.P.R. The first few paragraphs
are favourable to the Society's work, but are followed by four para-
graphs of intemperate hostility, in which quotations from Sir Oliver
Lodge and Mr E. T. Bennett are torn from their contexts to bolster
up an attack on the Society's work with regard to physical pheno-
mena. So far from the Society having any reason to be apologetic,
as the author would suggest, with regard to its record in this branch
of our subject, we may reasonably claim that the Society was the
pioneer in investigating the causes of errors of observation, and, on
the basis of the knowledge so acquired, in setting up and maintaining
a standard of technique, departure from which renders valueless
results, however sensational, obtained by investigators however
eminent or well advertised.
Dr Fodor's failure to obtain authentic statements from the
officers of our Society has also lead him into a stupid gaffe about the
result of Conan Doyle's attack on the Society at the time of his
resignation. Dr Fodor suggests that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's
attack was successful to the extent of inducing 84 members of the
Society to resign. The facts are stated in the Council's Annual
Report for 1930 {Journal, xxvii. 24) :
" The Council are glad to say
Mahoi I 1934 Reviews 209
that this attack on the Society failed almost completely, only six
Members and one Associate, none of whom had ever taken an active
part in the Society's work, resigning on the grounds of agreement
with this [Sir A. Conan Doyle's] circular ".
We should not, however, wish it to be supposed that the whole of
the historical matter is infected with the faults indicated above, and
there are numerous articles on the theoretical side of psychical
research in which different representative points of view are stated.
W. H. S.
Problemy Metapsychologie. Les ProbUmes de la Metapsychique.
Resultats de Venquete internationale du " Pestry Tyden " d
Prague. 8vo, pp. 110, 9 portraits. Prague 1933.
This volume, which is dedicated to the memory of Sir William
Crookers on the occasion of his centenary in June 1932, is the result
of an enquiry undertaken by the Prague weekly paper, Pestry
Tyden, as to the state of psychical research in the different countries
of Europe. The paper addressed to leading psychical researchers
and spiritualists in most of the European countries the following
five questions :
1. What is the attitude nowadays of the general public in your
country towards the problems of psychical research ?
2. Why does official science up to the present time for the most
part display hostility towards these problems ?
3. Are the results obtained by psychical research up to the present
time of a kind to influence our views on the spiritual nature of man ?
4. Do you attach more importance to " subjective " psychical
research, which deals with parapsychical phenomena, or to objective
psychical research which deals with paraphysical phenomena ?
5. On the basis of the knowledge obtained to date is it possible
to prove scientifically the personal survival of man after bodily
death \
Thirty-four persons in about a dozen countries replied to this
questionnaire at more or less length, and the contributors would
appear to be ou the whole a group fairly representative of opinion
among psychical researchers in Europe, although one notes with
regret the absence of several important names. The answers are
printed in English, French, German or Czech, according to the
nationality of the contributor, the Czech contributions being also
translated into French, and the English, French, and German con-
tributions into Czech. The enquiry was under the personal direction
of Dr Karel Kuchynka, the Editor of the psychical section of Pestry
Tyden, and a member of the Committee of Moral Hygiene at the
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1934
Ministry of Public Health in Prague ; Dr Kuchynka is to be con-
gratulated on having presented his readers with a book of very great
interest.
It is impossible to summarise the opinions of all the contributors
in a short notice. English readers may perhaps be surprised to find
that many of our Continental confreres (though by no means all)
draw a sharp distinction between what they call " the English
school " of psychical research, based mainly on the study of spon-
taneous psychical phenomena and tending, it is suggested, to a
spiritualist conclusion, and a " Erench school " pursuing the experi-
mental study of physical phenomena and reaching thereby animistic
conclusions. I do not think that any of our leading members, or for
that matter Dr Richet or Dr Osty in Erance, would quite accept that
view of the position.
On the question of survival a few of the contributors, like Sir
Oliver Lodge, say definitely '
yes ', and a few others definitely '
no '.
There seems however to be a general tendency, if one may say so
without disrespect, to " hedge " on this question, and a very common
view seems to be that there is some sort of evidence, if not amounting
to scientific certainty, for the survival of what M. Ch. Quartier calls
a " quid ", which may or may not be of a personal nature.
It is to be hoped that many of our members will read this book.
I do not know of any other which gives so full and handy an account
of the state of opinion among leading psychical researchers on the
main questions which arise in our work.
W. H. S.
The Complete Works of H. P. Blavatsky. Edited by A. Trevor
Barker. Vol. i (1874-1879) ; vol. ii (1879-1881). London :
Rider and Co., 1933. 15s. net each.
The edition of Mme Blavatsky's complete writings, of which these
are the two first volumes, will doubtless give much pleasure to her
Theosophical disciples all over the world, but it is doubtful if they
will increase her reputation among other readers. They reveal too
much. The first letters in the first volume, for example, demonstrate
her enthusiasm as a Spiritualist in her first years in America : she
describes herself as " a Spiritualist of many years' standing " and
announces that " for the sake of Spiritualism I have left my home,
an easy life among a civilized society, and have become a wanderer
upon the face of the earth." Later on Mr Barker will doubtless print
her denials that she was or had been a Spiritualist ; even in these
two volumes she is shown gradually attempting to establish herself
as a hostile critic of the creed for which she claimed (when it suited
March 1934 Reviews 211
her) to have abandoned luxury and ease. Mr Barker and his assis-
tants do not seem to have unearthed any new materials of value.
Among matter familiar to students one notes with amusement the
two letters to the editor of the New York World, written in 1877, in
which Mme Blavatsky showed an uncritical loyalty to her native
country (e.g. " The Sublime Porte has had the sublime effrontery to
ask the American people to execrate Russian barbarity," and
" during the emeute in Odessa, which was caused by some Jewish
children throwing dirt into the church on Easter night, and which
lasted more than a week, the Russian soldiers shot and bayonetted
twelve Christian Russians and not a single Jew ") and some spirited
invective directed at anybody who had the audacity to disagree with
the writer, no matter on what topic and with what authority. On
the whole, however, these pages are dull reading : Mme Blavatsky
is more interesting as a psychological study than as a collected
writer.
C. E. Bechhofer Roberts.
Professor Charles Richet, La Grande Esperance. 8vo, pp. 293.
Paris : Editions Montaigne, 1933.
Professor Richet's book, written with his usual charm and lucidity
of style, opens with some general philosophical considerations of
which a cardinal point is found in his conclusion that the whole
process of terrestrial evolution has been directed towards intellectual
development. In considering where this development—which is still
in its infancy—may lead us, Professor Richet finds " the great hope
"
of the future in metapsychical science. Great as the achievements
of " classical science " have been and are likely to be. he sees no
reason to expect that they will profoundly influence our mental and
moral attitude towards life. But in those wide unknown fields of
whose existence psychical phenomena give us evidence Professor
Richet believes that the human intellect of the future will find its
great adventure.
He passes briefly in review various types of psychical phenomena,
and readers of his earlier books will not need to be told that he
accepts as established cryptaesthesia (including telepathy), ecto-
plasmic phenomena and telekinesis. It is of interest to note that
although the spiritistic hypothesis, especially in its cruder forms, is
still unacceptable to Professor Richet, he does not find it possible
to reject it unconditionally :
" it is legitimate to say that in certain
cases the spiritistic explanation is the least open to objection ".
H. de G. S.
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1934
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Ltd.
January 1934.
'
Dr Glen Hamilton, Some further " Katie King " phenomena.
[The phenomena reported by Dr Hamilton get more and more
remarkable. An investigation of them appears to be highly desir-
able, as in some respects the evidence advanced for certain types of
materialisation is more striking than anv previously published.]
-Dr W. G. Richards, " The Aura ".—Lieutenant N. P. Clarke,
Psychomet[r]ic Experiments with Ruth Vaughan. [The results are
very modest].
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
December 1933. [F. B. Bond], A Human Aura Photographically
Recorded. [A similar " aura " can be obtained by any photographer
who photographs a white object in brilliant sunshine on film not
protected against halation.]. F. B. Bond, The Inspiration of Glas-
tonbiuy. [Part III].—S. E. Anderson, Psyche, the Immortal.
[Part VII].—Le Livre des Revenants. [A new verification. In
addition the Editor refers in his Editorial Notes to Dr Prince's
criticisms of this case. As the Editor restricts himself to sarcasm
it may be presumed that no better answer is available].
January 1934. William H. Button, Mr Thorogood's Report on
the Fingerprint Phenomena in the Margery Mediumship. [A review
of this report will appear in our Journal in due course].—Records of
the " X " Group. [A continuation of the series previously reported
on under the title of " Les Livres des Revenants " ; these sittings
are being continued without Mrs X, who has recently died].
Revue Metapsychique.
November-December 1933. Prof. C. Richet, For the Advancement
of Metapsychics. [Prof. Richet announces the formation of a Society
the object of which is to gain support for the Institut Metapsychique,
an object in which it will have all our good wishes]. —Dr E. Osty,
The Spontaneous and Fortuitous Manifestations of Supernormal
Knowledge. [Continued].—Henri Azam, Notes on the Physical
Aspect of the Dowsing Problem. [On an electro-magnetic method
of prospecting].—C. de Vesme, Xenoglossy. [Continued].—Dr E.
Osty, The Supernormal Knowledge of Energy and Matter. [The
original French of Dr Osty's Myers Lecture].—Dr E. Osty, Sup-
plementary Notes on the Visionaries of Esquioga, Beauraing and
elsewhere.—[We note that M. Quartier has left France in connection
with his professional work, and that in consequence the reviews and
the " Chronicle " will in future be in the experienced and able
hands of M. C. de Vesme.]
March 1934 Cwvespondence 213
January-February 1934. Dr E. Osty, Some Experiments -with.
M. Stefan Ossowiecki. [Dr Osty describes several recent experi-
ments, including some performed last year in Warsaw in his presence
and in that of the present reviewer. In the " Chronicle " M. De Vesme
reproduces a full summary of the present writer's recent report on
the same medium.]—C. De Vesme, Xenoglossy [Part II]. —Dr E.
Osty, The Paranormal psychic Powers of Groups and of Couples.
[A suggestive note on collective mediumship].—Lucien Boussand,
In the Depths of the Mind. [On some personal paranormal experi-
ences]. —Paul Voigt, A Physical Method of measuring Biological
Bays.—G. van Bynberk, French Occultism and Metapsychology in
the 18th Century. [On Jean-Baptiste Willermoz.]—E. Pascal,
Eidetism and the Apparitions of the Virgin.
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique,
January 1934.
Maurice Schaerer, Progress and Finality. [On Professor Bichet's
La Grande Esperance].—L. Vandermeulen, Monograph on the Henri
Vandermeulen apparatus.
Zeitsckrift fur Parapsychologie.
January 1934. Dr J. Simsa. Experiments with the Prague physi-
cal medium Wolf. [To be continued.]—Dr E. Mannheimer, Ex-
periments in the Field of Psychometry.—E. Wagner, An old Haunt.
—0. Hess, Genuineness or Fraud of the Melzer apports ? —0. Hess,
What is Thought of the Source of Mediumistic Apports ?
February 1934. Dr A. von Winterstein, Is the Controlling Spirit
of a medium an Independent Being ?
—[A review of the recent in-
vestigations of Mrs Garrett].—Dr Jan Simsa, Experiments with
the Prague physical medium Wolf. [Continued.]—Dr van Holthe
tot Echten, How I became a Spiritualist. —C. H. F. Driessen. Para-
psychology and Beaders.
Zeitsckrift fur Metapsycliische Forsckuug.
September 1933. Dr W. Carius, On the Sense of Direction of
Savages.—Dr Karl Bruno, Bersonal Experiences in the Field of
the Supersensuous. [Concluded].
December 1933. Professor C. Schroder. The so-called Mango
Phenomenon of the Indian Fakirs and Belated Phenomena.—Pro-
fessor J. Kasnacich, The Attitude of the Catholic Church towards
Metapsychical research. —Professor C. Blacher, Apport Observa-
tions.—H. Fritsche. Biology as a point of Departure for Parapsy-
chological Besearch.—[Among the miscellaneous matter Professor
Schroder contributes the first part of the obituary of the murdered
" clairvoyant ", " E. J. Hanussen ", an interesting social document.
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1934
January 1934. Professor C. Blacher. Observations of Apports.
[Concluded].—Professor C. Shroder, Erik Jan Hanussen. [Concluded].
—L. Gunther, From the Realm of the Supersensuous.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, January 1934.
Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff, On Spirit Seeing. [Public lecture delivered
on the inauguration of Dr Tenhaeff's admission as a " Docent " in
parapsychology in the University of Utrecht.]—Dr G. Walther, My
Experiences with the medium Rudi Schneider. [An excellent survey
of the status of this mediumship].
La Ricerca Psychica, January 1934.
E. Bozzano, The Psychical Investigation of a Professor of Zoology.
[A review].—G. Pioli, Recent Experiments in Physical Mediumship
and the " Direct Voice ". [To be continued].—R. Fedi, Eechner's
Conception of the Survival of the Soul. [To be continued].—Prof.
R. Bianchi, Spiritualism or Positive Science ?
Th. B.
No. 504.—Vol. XXVIII. April 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting- of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
AT THE CORNER OF KINGSWAY AND HIGH
HOLBORN
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 April IQ34, at 6.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
THE QUANTITATIVE STUDY OF TRANCE
PERSONALITIES
WILL BE READ BY
Mr VVHATELY CARINGTON
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
CASE
Dream of the Result of a Race
P. 302.
An article on a Cornish Quaker's dream having appeared in The
Wayfarer, a Quaker journal, Mr John H. Williams, Willcott, Wood-
warde Road, Dulwich (also a Cornish Quaker), sent to that journal an
account of a dream of his own. This was published in The Wayfarer
for February 1934 (xiii. 4) x, and is reproduced below as it was
originally written by Mr Williams :
" On reading recently in ' The Wayfarer' an article under the above
heading I was reminded that I ought to also place on record the
following facts.
" Although of comparatively minor importance the underlying
principle of premonition in a dream is clearly evidence but appar-
ently inexplicable.
" On the morning of the '
Derby Day', 31st May last, having been
for some time not in the best of health (an octogenarian) I was re-
quested at 8.15 to remain in bed for a few minutes whilst my break-
fast was being prepared, as the dining-room was being rearranged.
" I am an ardent opponent of betting and gambling, was not
thinking of the 'Derby', am not interested in racing and did not
know the names of any horses in the race which was to be run at
about 2 p.m.
"I fell asleep at 8.20, and at 8.35 was aroused from a dream in
which I heard a detailed account of the race as by radio and the
names of the first four winners—Hyperion, King Salmon and two
others which I failed to remember (not being acquainted with the
names) and was suddenly '
cut off' by the knock at my door with
breakfast.
" I had dreamt of listening in on 'phones from a rather ancient
crystal receiver and hearing the whole of the race from the start to
'around Tattenham Corner', and, in excited tones, how Hyperion
gained the lead and won, when I was disturbed.
" I knew the Crystal set was out of order, but was so impressed
with the seeming reality of the account that I resolved to put the
set right and listen at 2 p.m. This I did and when the race was pro-
ceeding heard the identical expressions and names as in the dream !
" Can this be explained ?
" In confirmation of the above to remove any natural doubt by
readers of this, it may be well to mention that the same morning, at
11 o'clock, having to make a short journey by 'bus I met a neighbour
in it to whom I related my morning's experience and asked him to
note the result of the race. I also told it to another person in
Peckham to whom I went on business matters at 11.20 a.m.
April 1934 Case 217
" The neighbour referred to was also heard to relate in a restaurant
long before the race, what I had told him at 11 a.m.
" The two persons to whom I spoke in the morning hereby certify
to the fact by their signatures, viz. :
(Signed) C. A. Young, 71 Court Lane, Dulwich
Retired Civil Servant
W. E. Roland Doughty, 7 Camomile Street,
E.G. 3. Certified Accountant
John H. Williams, (Also a Cornish Quaker).
30th November 1933."
Mr Saltmarsh wrote to the two witnesses, and Mr. Doughty replied
as follows (2 March 1934) :
" With great pleasure, I accede to your request for permission to
publish my signature certifying that Mr John H. Williams related
the story of his dream to me.
" On the morning of Derby Day I was working at the address of a
client in Rye Lane, Peckham, when an elderly gentleman called and
agreed to wait for the return of my client who had just gone out. He
sat down in the office with me and we chatted together when the
subject of betting came under discussion and the credulity of those
who bet in signs and omens. In the course of conversation Mr
Williams told me that he had had a dream to which backers of horses
would attach much significance.
" Mr Williams stated that his daughter had requested him to
remain in bed a little longer that morning because she wished to
clean up the dining room. During the interval of my first awakening
and getting up. I fell asleep again, said Mr Williams, and dreamt that
I was listening in to a wireless account of the Derby : the progress
of the race was described by the Announcer, and at last I heard him
say 'Hyperion has won'."
" My client returned during the morning, and when Mr Williams
had gone, I repeated to him the story Mr Williams had told to me,
and ascertained the name and profession of his caller."
Mr Young replied as follows (3 March 1934) :
" I am quite willing that you should publish my name as verifying
the narrative of Mr William's dream.
"The main facts are incontestable. On the morning of last
'Derby Day' I boarded a 'bus for about 15 minutes run and Mr
Williams whom I knew as a casual acquaintance got on the same
bus. We settled down to a chat. The time being about 11.30 or a
little earlier.
"Mr Williams then related to me the incident he has described.
O 2
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
As I have the elderly man's failing of not being quite certain of re-
membering all the remarks that passed I will give what I am certain of.
" After commenting on the usual topic—the weather—Mr Williams
said I had a curious thing happen to me this morning. My daughter
was busy with household duties and suggested that I should stay in
lied until after I had had my breakfast so as to be out of the way.
" I had my breakfast and then snuggled down and dropped off and
I heard quite clearly the result of the Derby come through on the
wireless and the shouts of ' Hyperion first ' or ' Hyperion wins ' (I can-
not be certain which and I don't remember whether he told me he
also heard the other placed horses).
" As Mr Williams is the last person in the world to suggest an
interest in racing I observed to him that he must have uncon-
sciously read the names of the Derby horses in the morning paper
but he assured me that he had not then seen the daily paper.
" I was so impressed and interested by his dream that I mentioned
it to several persons—a clerk in my Local Bank, a Bank Manager I
met at a monthly Lunch at a 'Settlement' at 12.30 and this last
relation was heard by other visitors at that luncheon.
" I may perhaps add that the first time I saw Mr Williams after-
wards, he told me that the wireless announcement which he had the
curiosity to listen to was exactly as he had heard it in his dream."
It will be seen that both Mr Young and Mr Doughty speak of only
one horse. They were questioned further on this point by Mr Bester-
man and confirmed (in letters dated respectively 17 and 20 March
1934) the fact that Mr Williams mentioned only the winner to them.
Mr Besterman has interviewed Mr Williams, who, notwithstanding
his age, is an excellent witness, and who is quite clear that he did
definitely dream of the first four horses in the race. Even though
there is unfortunately no independent evidence of this except in
regard to the winner, the case is a good one. It has two points of
special interest. The first is that Mr Williams, who is opposed to
horse-racing and was at one time the secretary of an anti-betting
organisation, should have dreamed of the result of the race. Here
a psycho-analytical interpretation might be introduced, on the
assumption that Mr Williams's strong and yet repressed interest, as
an opponent, in racing may have emerged in this form. The second
point of interest is the fact that normally Mr Williams would not
have listened to the description of a horse race, and on that day
could not have done so, as his wireless set was out of order and he
had no immediate intention of repairing it. Thus the dream in a
sense brought about its own fulfilment.
We are greatly obliged to Mr Williams, and also to Messrs Young
and Doughty, for the trouble they have kindly taken in this matter.
April 1934 Correspondence 219
CORRESPONDENCE
Precognition and Psychoanalysis
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I am obliged to Prof. Dodds for his letter to you in the
March issue. I am so far in agreement with him that I consider that
it would be highly profitable to psychical research if the methods and
technique of psycho-analysis could be utilised. But I will not sail
under false colours. I confess that I do not accept Freud's theories
in their entirety. Doubtless this will seem heretical to Prof. Dodds.
but I am by nature an heretic. I like being an heretic, particularly
so when, as in this case. I have good companions in my heresy.
Prof. Dodds's "flat contradiction
1
'
does not disturb me ; neither
he nor I have any data whatsoever upon which to go. so I do not
propose to argue the point. I should have thought, however, that
for persons living in this country where monkeys are not common
objects the tendency would be for some less exotic symbol to be
employed. Even if his figures be correct it means that only one out
of ten or fifteen thousand women in London would have this parti-
cular dream on any one night and one in ten or fifteen thousand may
be considered, if not extremely rare, at least comparatively so. He
does not, however, consider the other side of the matter ; the event
of being followed by a monkey in London is, I am sure, not one that
happens every day. Again I have no statistics, but a fairly long
acquaintance with life in that city leads me to believe that such a
thing must be " extremely rare "'. Let us suppose that it happens to
one woman once a year. I claim that the probability of it happening
to one of the hundred women on the day following her having the
dream is so small that the hypothesis of chance is practically ex-
cluded.
It is true that these unlikely events do occur, as for example in the
instance which Prof. Dodds cites, and if the case stood alone we
should be justified in putting it down as merely a curious coinci-
dence. But when we have a large number of instances which agree
in respect of being cases of apparent precognition, though differing
in all other respects, I consider that we are bound to assume that
chance alone could not be responsible for them. If then something
other than chance is involved we must admit a causal nexus between
the two events. Obviously the dream could not be the cause of the
fulfilling event and it seems to me to be a quite plausible hypothesis
that, even if the dream, as Prof. Dodds suggests, symbolised a sexual
assault, the choice of the symbol was influenced by precognition of an
actual event.
I am fortified in this view by the fact that there are many cases in
which, in my unrepentant opinion, even the most extravagant em-
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
ployment of Freudian symbolism could not account for the dreams.
I am aware that the thoroughgoing disciple of Freud's doctrines will
not agree, for the resources of the device are so wide that I have no
doubt that the financial column of The Times could be construed as a
sexual article.
Concerning his next point, viz. the frequency of death precogni-
tions, I fancy that the matter is not quite so simple as Prof. Dodds
supposes. I think that he must have overlooked a remark which I
made on page 51. I there said, " I have classed as Vague those cases
where there was . . . nothing conclusively to connect the event
which is reported as fulfilling the prediction with the alleged precog-
nition." It follows that an hallucination case which consisted solely
of a phantasmal appearance with no added details to indicate the
nature of the event, that is to say, whether death, illness, arrival,
marriage and so on, would be classed as vague and would not there-
fore enter into the statistics.
I do not know whether there is any recognised psychoanalytic
doctrine concerning the appearance of repressed death wishes in
hallucination, but if such wishes are as common as Prof. Dodds
asserts I maintain that dreams should show at least as high a per-
centage of death cases as any of the other types.
And finally as regards symbolism. Seeing that I do not accept
Freud's doctrine of symbolism to its full extent it seems obvious that
the symbols of which I spoke are not Freudian symbols. Where a
dream depicts in all its details a quite ordinary event which happens
shortly afterwards, I consider that it is absurd to insist that it is all
symbolic.
And anyhow if, as Freud himself admits, telepathy may determine
the choice of symbols, the same may be true of precognition, so that
even if the dream have a symbolic meaning in the Freudian sense it
may be, none the less, a true precognition.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—With regard to Professor Dodds's interesting letter in
the March Journal under this title—I have always found it difficult
to believe that the dreams of normal people, who are courageous
enough to face squarely the facts and consequences of their own
acts, should be determined by this Freudian dissimulative Fear-
Complex machinery under the direction of an apprehensive though
well-intentioned Censor. The post would be a sinecure.
In the case of telepathic dreams their object would clearly be
defeated by such an unintelligent use of symbolism.
April 1934 Correspondence 221
Mrs Stone's famous Train dream (Human Personality (short)
p. 108), the numerous reciprocal dreams recorded passim in Journal
and Proceedings, and precognitive dreams such as of ducks buried
up to the neck in sand, are surely outside the category of dreams
amenable to Freudian treatment. Does the Subconscious '
rout up
'
an emotion to fit the symbol of (say) ducks-buried-up-to-the-neck, or
is a correlative emotion aroused in the Subconscious by the precog-
nitive impact I There seems to be no reason whatever, except on
Freudian assumptions, why Subconscious emotions of this kind
should play any part in the production of such dreams.
Yours, etc.
Ernest S. Thomas.
Time and Precognition
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—With reference to Mr H. F. Saltmarsh's most interesting
and valuable paper on " Cases of Apparent Precognition", there are
two points which I should like to raise, both in connection with the
theory.
( 1 ) The first is a minor point . If we adopt any of the symmetrical
arrangements of the line representing the threshold of consciousness,
either as shown in Fig. 11 or in Fig. 13 or that in which it is asymp-
totic, we should expect on the face of it to find cases of precognitive
supernormal knowledge and cases of supernormal knowledge of past
events appearing in about equal numbers. There are no doubt in-
stances of the latter—retro or post-cognitions—but I think that they
are rare in comparison with the number of precognitions. It might
be of course that for some reason it is more difficult for subliminal
knowledge of a past than of a future event to rise into supraliminal
consciousness, but one would rather have expected it to be the other
way about. By post-cognition I here mean periodical accounts of
past events which never lay within the normal knowledge of the
percipient.
(2) The second point concerns the theory of time* which Mr Salt-
marsh puts forward. He illustrates this theory on p. 89 by a world-
structure represented by a bundle of wires lying more or less parallel
to one another, which the observer views through a slit moving in a
direction parallel with their general length. Now, on this view,
neither time nor change is a property of the world-structure itself.
Both arise out of the cognitive relation which subsists between the
observer and the external world. This word is given to him in
succession of specious presents, and it is merely the succession of a
number of sensuous experiences, correlated in a particular way,
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
which gives rise in the observer's mind to the idea that change,
endurance and becoming are characteristics of the external world.
This view of time is as subjective a view as is the ordinary, causal
theory which science puts forward of the (so-called) '
secondary
'
qualities of matter. For example, a pillar-box, which common sense
regards as being itself literally characterised by the quality of red-
ness, is not, according to the scientific view, red in this sense at all.
It possesses certain causal properties, in particular the property of
reflecting electro-magnetic radiation of a certain wave-length, and
this, passing into the eye, stimulating the retina and optic nerve and
so on, ultimately gives rise to the sensation of redness in the mind of
the observer. "Redness"' on this view, is something which charac-
terises the observer's experience and is not a quality which is in-
herent in the pillar-box.
If one adopts this scientific view of the nature of redness, one can-
not also adopt the common-sense view, which holds, in a naively
realistic sense, that redness inheres in the pillar-box, without com-
mitting a logical inconsistency.
But this kind of inconsistency is just what Mr Saltmarsh appears
to have introduced into his theory of time by postulating movable
wires in his otherwise fixed world-structure. One or more of the
wires, he says, (in respect of the whole of its length which lies in the
future of the present moment) may be "moved" by a free-will act
on the part of the observer and actor.
What are we to understand by " motion"' on the part of the wire ?
Motion has been implicitly defined, on the theory already adopted,
as a peculiarity of the observer's mode of cognition of the external
world. The observer himself (presumably) endures and is conscious
of his own enduring. (There is a difference between felt endurance
and physical time, which latter is divisible into measurable portions.
Mr Saltmarsh himself points this out : he calls them " psychological
"
and "mathematician's" time.) The observer senses successive
cross-sectional blocks of this external world, which in itself is in some
way existent but timeless. He senses these blocks in successive
specious presents, and this gives him the idea that there is a physical
time in which the external world is enduring and changing, and its
elements are " moving ". But all the while, time is a subjective affair
of his own, arising out of a combination of his own sense of enduring
with the differences presented by his sense-data.
Now, if Mr Saltmarsh adopts the subjective view of time, I do
not see how he can also, without logical inconsistency, introduce the
view that his world-fibres (or some of them) exist in a time of their
own in which they can move. For, clearly if a certain world-fibre,
in respect of the whole of its future length, is, at the observer's
present moment t related to the other world-fibres by a relation R,
April 1934 Correspondence 223
and at the observer's present moment t' is related to them by a
different relation R', then it has undergone a change of relationship
in a time of its own, which has nothing to do with the purely subjec-
tive time which is the only time the observer knows of. Mr Salt-
marsh, in fact, reverts from a time which arises out of the observer's
cognitive relation to the external world (shall we call it " epistemo-
logical time " ?) to a quite different kind of time which has nothing
to do with any cognitive relation, but is assigned as an inherent
characteristic to that external world itself. (Shall we call this " onto-
logical time" ? )
My contention is that if Mr Saltmarsh is talking about a single
time in which the events of the external world occur, then he is
logically inconsistent in introducing both epistemological and onto-
logical time into his theory. The theory of a "plastic" future
would therefore seem to be irreconcilable with the view that physical
time arises out of a cognitive relation between the observer and the
external world.
Whether or not it would be possible to avoid this inconsistency by
asserting that epistemological and ontological time both exist, I do
not know. The resulting theory would, I am afraid, be rather dis-
tressingly complicated and would need a good deal of working out.
Yours, etc.,
G. N. W. Tyrrell.
[In regard to Mr Tyrrell's first point, the phenomena of crypto-
mnesia are by no means rare, far more common, at any rate,
than those of precognition ; they are particularly frequent in
scrying. It might be most convenient to reserve the term retro-
cognition for paranormal knowledge of past events, that is, of events
never known to the percipient. —Ed.]
Immunity to Fire
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—Much apparently trustworthy evidence about fire walk-
ing has recently been forthcoming from Sir Bindon Blood and others.
I write to point out the close relation between this and some pheno-
mena observed by Crookes and others with D. D. Home. In
Proceedings S.P.R., vi. 103 (1890) we read "Mr Home went to the
fire and after stirring the hot coal about with his hand, took out a
red hot piece nearly as big as an orange and putting it on his right
hand covered it over with his left hand so as to almost completely
enclose it, and then blew into the small furnace thus extemporised
until the lump of charcoal was nearly white hot, and then drew my
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
attention to the lambent flame which was flickering over the coal
and licking round his fingers."
In some respects this is more remarkable than the fire walking
ceremony. On the other hand, the hot coal was not pressed against
Mr Home's hand by the whole weight of a human body.
Yours, etc.
Rayleigh.
REVIEWS
Sigmund Freud, New Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis.
Translated by W. J. H. Sprott. 8vo, pp. 240. London : The
Hogarth Press, 1933. Price 10s. 6d. net.
These lectures are supplementary to and a continuation of Profes-
sor Freud's first Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis, some
being critical revisions of past work, whilst others break new ground.
The now wide public which follows the development of Professor
Freud's thought will read these lectures with great interest, but there
is included in this volume one lecture of especial interest and import-
ance to students of psychical research, that is, Lecture X, on " Dreams
and the Occult".
Here, for the first time at some length, Professor Freud deals with
the thorny subject of the occult, admitting and elucidating the
reasons for a considerable modification of his earlier views. That he
does so modify them is yet another corroboration of Professor
Freud's scientific willingness to revise his opinions when he observes
new facts ; and these facts, even to those people who do not fully
accept the psycho-analytic interpretation, are of great interest and
importance to the study of telepathy and kindred phenomena.
After summarising his instinctive disinclination towards occult
matters, Professor Freud, who evidently addresses an audience even
more averse to the subject than he is himself, outlines the difficulties
of investigation, and explains his particular approach through
psycho-analysis. Physical phenomena, he decides, with the neces-
sary modern methods of control, are best left to experts and their
report awaited. He chooses, therefore, the dreams of his patients,
and the analysis of the dream contents, as his field for observation,
for it was his experience with these which led him to entertain the
possibility of telepathy. The results of analysis suggested that occa-
sionally, in the patient's associations, a residue was arrived at that
could best be accounted for on the hypothesis that it was the direct
impression from another mind. In Professor Freud's words, " If
then one comes across a so-called telepathic dream, one can convince
oneself by its analysis that the telepathic message has played the
April 1931 Reviews 225
same role as any other residue of waking life, and as such has been
altered by the dream work and made to serve its purpose."
Several interesting illustrations of such analysis are given and
Professor Freud proceeds to another group of experiences wherein
he finds admirable opportunities for making observations on thought
transference, that is, in the experiences of his patients with profes-
sional clairvoyants. In this group of cases analysis strongly suggests
that it is the unconscious wishes of the sitter which are telepathically
received by the clairvoyant, and expressed in the form of prophecy.
There is this case, for instance. A patient of Professor Freud's
related how. on consulting an astrologer, he was told that his brother-
in-law would die in a few months of poisoning from crabs or lobsters.
The prophecy was not fulfilled, but the brother-in-law did become
ill from this cause. The importance given by the patient to this
coincidence confirmed the findings of analysis that he was suffering
from repressed hatred of his brother-in-law. and this hatred had pro-
voked the wish that the taste for shell-fish might some day prove
fatal. Professor Freud suggests that it was this repressed wish
which had been telepathically received by the astrologer, and given
out again in the form of prophecy. He remarks, with some dryness,
and with characteristic economy of emphasis, that he prefers this
explanation to the belief that one can calculate the onset of shell-fish
poisoning by consulting astrological tables.
To quote one case can give little idea of the suggestiveness of
Professor Freud's observations, but those who in the course of
research work have sat often with clairvoyants, and who have
attained a measure of self-analysis will, from their own experiences,
warmly corroborate this view.
Some of the cases quoted by Professor Freud suffer admittedly
from omissions which have to be made for reasons of professional
secrecy, and the critical reader will probably differ as to the impres-
siveness of some cases as they are presented, and will ask whether
perhaps enough allowance has been made for coincidence, or for
accidentally acquired knowledge. Strangely enough it is especially
in the case of Dr Forsyth (page 66), which seems to have made a great
impression on Professor Freud, where these doubts will arise most
strongly. However, as Professor Freud is the last person to claim
any evidential weight from one case alone, these criticisms are per-
haps of small importance in comparison with the value of Professor
Freud's suggestive contribution to the study of the occult.
He will not be tempted very far into speculation, perhaps that is
not possible in the scope of a lecture, and such speculations as he
makes, in a brief summary of his views, suggest that thought-
transference favours a mechanistic view of the " elusive world of the
mind". "What lies between two mental acts, (i.e. between agent and
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1934
percipient) may well be a physical process. His thought here (or
perhaps the thought has eluded the skill of the translator) is a little
difficult to follow, and we are not quite clear what is meant when
he says " by inserting the unconscious between the physical and
what has hitherto been regarded as the mental, psycho-analysis
has prepared the way for the acceptance of such processes as tele-
pathy."
It is clear, however, that his interpretation is mechanistic, and
however widely the reader may differ, in interpretation, he cannot
fail to be grateful for the encouragement given to the study of the
occult due to Professor Freud's valuable suggestions. The facts of
telepathy will gain in reality when they are seen to take place natur-
ally and in accordance with the habits of the rest of the personality,
and the student of the occult must be entirely conscious of the wish
that Professor Freud will have the opportunity to observe some of
the most puzzling occult phenomena, such as are presented by
mediumistic controls, and to subject them to his fruitful analytic
treatment.
Meanwhile, that Professor Freud should plead that his readers
"should think more kindly of the objective possibility of thought-
transference, and therefore also of telepathy ''
will encourage those
who are already at work on the problems, and perhaps also make
new recruits from the ranks of the sceptics.
Ina Jephson.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research .
February 1934. F. B. Bond, The Inspiration of Glastonbury.—
"The Spirit of Na-dine"' [An account of a repeated apparition].—
Samuel E. Anderson, Psyche, The Immortal. [Part VIII].—E. W.
Clark, A Case Report of Psychic Healing.
March 1934. Dr Gerda Walther, Progress of Psychical Research
in Europe. [This title is rather misleading, as this useful article
merely enumerates lectures on psychical research delivered in uni-
versities, and the like. The only country in which psychical research
has been recognised as an academic subject is Holland, the Univer-
sity of Utrecht having appointed Dr Dietz and Dr Tenhaeff to give
optional lectures on psychical research]. —F. B. Bond [The Inspiration
of Glastonbury, Part VI]—A Record of two Psychic Experiences.
[Quite uncorroborated].—May C. Walker, Psychic Research in
Brazil. [An account of some decidedly interesting sittings with
Mirabelli].—Record of the X Group. [Part II]. Th. B.
No. 505.—Vol. XXVIII. Mat 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 30 May 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN
AN INFORMAL REPORT ON THE SOCIETY'S
INVESTIGATION OF RUDI SCHNEIDER
WILL BE READ BY
Mr OLIVER GATTY
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
v
228 Jaarnal of Society for Psychical Research May 1934
FORTHCOMING MEETING
27 June, 5.30 p.m. " The Fire Walk." By Mr Ernest S. Thomas.
NEW MEMBERS
(Elected on 28 March 1934)
Branson, J. R. B„ Headley Mill Farm, Bordon, Hants.
Brooke, Anthony W., The Priory, Redbourn, Herts.
Burrett, Mrs F. J., Moorland Cottage, Linkside, Hindhead, Surrey.
Hutchinson, Mrs, Spelmonden, Goudhurst, Kent.
Jerome, Adrian, Rose Bank, Shanklin, I.W.
Renwick, Allan E., St-y-Nyll, St Brides-super-Ely, Glam.
Spinney, G. H., 4 Overhill Gardens, London, S.E.22.
Thomas, Gilbert M., 6 Priory Road, London, W.4.
[Elected on 25 April 1934)
Herbert, A. S., Collingtree, Elgood Avenue, Northwood, Middlesex.
Minns, C, 32 Parkway, Welwyn Garden City.
Minns, Mrs C, 32 Parkway, Welwyn Garden City.
Rinehart, Mrs Mary Roberts, 2419 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Temple, Mrs W., Meadow Farm, Barnham, Sussex.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 316th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 March, at 4 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Lord Charles Hope,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr
S. G. Soal, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting were taken as read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the year
1934-1935 : Professor C. D. Broad, Dr William Brown, Mr Whately
Carington, Mr J. Arthur Hill, Lord Charles Hope, Professor Julian
Huxley, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Admiral the Plon. A. C. Strutt, and
Miss Nea Walker.
May 1934 Meetings of the Council 229
The 317th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 April 1934, at 5 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. Whately
Carington, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman, Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The following Members were co-opted Members of Council for the
year 1934-1935 : Mr Oliver Gatty, Mr Gerald Heard, and the Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas.
The Council accepted with much regret the resignation of Lord
Charles Hope as Consultant Investigator, on account of his inability
to devote as much time as before to the research work.
EDITORSHIP OF THE JOURNAL
Mr Besterman having found that his duties as Investigation
Officer left him insufficient time to carry out the work of editing
the Journal, Miss Nea Walker has very kindly consented to act as
Hon. Editor of the Journal. All communications concerning the
Journal should therefore be addressed to her.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
A Proxy Case extending over Twelve Sittings with
Mrs Leonard
The 127th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
31 January 1934, at 5.30 p.m., Mrs W. H. Salter in the Chair.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas read a paper entitled " A Proxy
Case extending over Twelve Sittings with Mrs Leonard."' Lantern
slides were shown illustrating many of the items touched upon.
The following account, by Mr Thomas, is considerably abridged.
In September 1932 there came an appeal from a family in the
north of England asking if I would attempt to obtain information
from a boy of ten who had recently died from diphtheria . The family
were not Spiritualists and had no strong expectation that I should
succeed. They apparently wrote to me owing to their having read
of my having taken proxy sittings.
In such proxy attempts I had rarely continued beyond a second
or third sitting. In the present case there emerged a special feature
which decided me to persevere, and this paper gives a summary of
the result from twelve sittings.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1934
Beyond the letter of appeal I knew nothing of the applicants, and
they gave away no unnecessary information. From the beginning
the evidential matter received rose far beyond the reach of chance
coincidence. For example, in one of the earlier sittings it was
stated that his people had a photograph of the boy, Bobbie, standing
full-faced, with a board in front of him. Also that he had been fond
of wearing on his head something in the nature of a joke, a cap with
no peak to it, and which the boy considered rather important.
The family replied, " This is certainly remarkable. The last
photograph we have of Bobbie is in fancy-dress. He is the Jack
of Hearts with boards back and front like a sandwich-man. On
his head is a crown as in a pack of cards. He was so fond of putting
it on that his mother had to check him lest it should be worn out."
The boy also told of an important engagement which his mother
had made for a Saturday afternoon and said he believed that his
being taken ill must have interfered with this engagement.
Bobbie's mother reported that such an engagement had been fixed
for the Saturday after Bobbie's death. It was with the Brownies,
of which she was an officer. The boy knew that his mother was to
have spent that afternoon with the Brownies. He was taken ill on
the previous Sunday. Directly his illness became serious his mother
postponed the engagement, so that Bobbie's death on the Thursday
did in fact prevent her taking the Saturday engagement.
Bobbie also stated that some foods that most boys liked he
objected to, and there was one particular food which he was very
difficult about, and yet it had been given him only a little while
before he passed over. It was one of his pet aversions although
quite an ordinary food which most boys would have liked.
This statement was correct. The boy had been funny about food.
He never touched jam, nor even a cake that had jam in it. He also
disliked milk. But his pet aversion was the white of egg. His
mother writes, " Bobbie hated it and always left it but I was
beginning to insist that he should try to eat it."
Bobbie also stated that he had been interested in going to some-
thing like a chemist's shop, although it was not really a shop but a
place with bottles and weighing things, instruments and such-like.
It was described as " a clean, white place with bottles and measuring
things."
One of the family replied, " This is very good. I had much to
do with a laboratory in the town and Bobbie liked to go there with
me. The reference to the taps, bottles and weighing things is quite
correct."
There are more than fifty successful evidential items of like
nature in addition to descriptions of the locality. So long a list
would be tedious if given in detail. It is sufficient to have shown
Mai 1934 Private Meetings 231
that references to the child's home and personal interests pass far
beyond the longest reach of chance coincidence.
Shortly after the sittings commenced the family sent three
questions, and subsequently added a further two. In my mind I
settled what the probable answers would be, but only one of my
guesses was correct and it happened that that was the question to
which Bobbie attempted no answer. Detailed information was
given in reply to the remaining four, and close examination showed
that my thoughts on the matter had not influenced the replies.
Here, as always, I failed to find any hint of telepathy between me
and the medium.
A conspicuous feature of these communications was the detailed
description of the neighbourhood from the boy's point of view. It
was not the sort of information which would have been picked up
from map or guide-book but exactly the kind which would result
from a boy's memory of favourite walks. The first of these descrip-
tions had ten points, all given with accuracy except one, which
referred to a broken stile. But that in itself was particularly inter-
esting because the broken stile had been there during the boy s
lifetime and had been removed before the date of the sitting. This
alone should incline us to think that the description was given from
the memory of one who had known the facts in Bobbie's lifetime,
rather than by any clairvoyance whether of medium or control.
The latter hypothesis would lead us into the difficulty of having to
suggest how clairvoyance was directed to the right town, and was
then able to trace, amidst its many scores of streets and paths, the
particular route which had been the favourite walk of the family.
Neither to Mrs Leonard in her normal state, nor to the control
during the sitting did I give any clue as to the town in which Bobbie
had lived.
The description of a broken stile which no longer exists, but
which did exist in the communicator's lifetime, was paralleled in
one of my previous proxy sittings where was given a detailed and
minutely accurate description of a garden. But that description,
in its most striking features, was correct only for the summer time,
whereas it was received in the winter. In that case, as in the above,
clairvoyance seems to be ruled out.
I have previously said that a special feature decided me to per-
severe with this case and we now come to consider this ; it might
be termed the mystery of the pipes. My regular communicators,
—
my father and my sister, —usually assist strangers who come to give
evidence. At the beginning of this case they told me they had dis-
cussed matters with Bobbie and helped him to select suitable
evidence.
Quite early in the series my father stated that although the boy
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mat 1934
had died suddenly from diphtheria something had happened nine
weeks before which in a sense led up to it. My sister and Bobbie
on different occasions repeated this assertion, and, when I asked if
they could give some clue to this, I was told that the word " pipes
"
should be sufficient.
The family replied that this conveyed nothing to them, and that,
so far as they could recollect, there had been no event nine weeks
before the boy's death which could in any sense be thought to
connect with it.
Owing to this expression of opinion, and to the family's failure
to realise what pipes were meant, I thought it important to discover
what and where these pipes might be. This finally led to the dis-
covery of something quite unknown to the family, namely the
existence of pipes in a remote spot where Bobbie had frequently
played.
Six months elapsed before the existence of these pipes was dis-
covered, and meanwhile the communicators at almost every sitting
were giving clue after clue, thus leading us finally to the spot where
the pipes were found. ;
fj
The whole story centres round the fact that Bobbie and a boy
friend had formed themselves into a secret society which they called
" the Gang," and in the early summer had begun to frequent a place
called " The Heights " for play and adventure. Being a secret
society they did not divulge the exact whereabouts of the playing
ground..
Among the clues that were given was a perfect and explicit de-
scription of the route from Bobbie's home up to the Heights. This
description included the name of the street where the boy's school
was situated and a reference to the Stocks one would pass on the way.
It was three months after the broaching of this mystery that the
family discovered the general direction of the place where the
" Gang " had played : but the area was large and unfamiliar to the
family and they remained quite oblivious of the fact that two pipes
were there through which water issued from springs.
No local maps are to be had, whether in guide-book or directory,
and it was not until these sittings were over that I inspected an
ordnance survey map, both the large scale and the small. I found
that springs are indicated but that there is no mention of the pipes.
It was not until six months after the first mention of the pipes
that I visited Bobbie's home. While I was being shown some of the
articles mentioned in these sittings, I discovered that the child had
kept a diary. I asked to see this, and turning to the date nine weeks
before his death on August 10th I scanned that and the next page,
looking for anything that might connect with illness. I had in my
mind the sitting of the previous December which I here quote :
Mat 1934 Private Meetings 233
" Nine weeks before Bobbie passed over there was something that
ought to have been very significant in the face of his passing, some-
thing that in a sense led up to it." Now Feda gave that as from my
father, and fifteen years' experience of Mrs Leonard assured me that
anything he said through her would be based on fact. Nine weeks
before August 10th would be June 8th. Nothing relevant appeared
there, but on turning the page I was arrested by two entries, " June
16. Had some toffee and two ice-creams " and " June 17. Joined
the Gang." Certainly ice-creams would be a possible source of in-
fection, but mention of the Gang aroused my curiosity, and I then
learned for the first time about the secret society and the place
selected by Bobbie and his friend for their escapades and adventures
in the summer. It seemed desirable that we should explore that
neighbourhood, and accordingly we started forth, taking the route
which had been so clearly indicated in the proxy communications.
I found it a wild, romantic spot, and for a while we wandered on
without definite aim, looking round for anything which might match
with the clues given in the sittings of the last six months. The
ground was rough and it was necessary to look where one stepped.
While doing this I suddenly caught sight of hoof marks in the soil.
One of the clues had been " Animals will be the best clue "—these
words flashed across my mind. Clearly animals had been here.
From whence had they come ? None were in sight and I looked
round wondering. As I looked, I saw, over the rough stone wall
above me, the roof of a shed. " Barn or stables " was another of the
clues. It had been given thus :
Feda :
" They are showing me like stables now, barns or stables,
and straw in big bundles. I have to call it a barn : on
one side nearly or all open, more like a shelter place.
It was not all built at the same time. There was some-
thing built on afterwards."
Hurriedly clambering over the stone walls, so characteristic of
that neighbourhood, we came to the near end of the shed. A glance
sufficed to show that this part of the shed was used as a stable.
Emerging from the stable we examined the shed. It had appar-
ently been added to from time to time, and that was another clue.
The further end of the shed was open and showed bundles of straw.
That made two more clues verified.
There was no doubt that we were hot on the track of the pipes.
So many clues had been verified that we might well expect that the
object to which they were intended to lead us was now close at hand.
Yet nothing in the way of pipes was visible, look where we would.
As I stood there discussing matters with the family the unex-
pected happened. It began with the sight of a woman carrying a
bucket and walking towards us. At this point it is necessary to
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mai 1934
revert to what, at the time it was given, seemed an attempt to
forecast the future.
My communicators were speaking about Bobbie's connection
with the pipes. They said :
" We know we are right and that if inquiries are quietly persisted
in it may eventually come to light. Bobbie himself is wishful that
this might be so, and two or three friends of his who have passed
over are also helping, so that sooner or later the matter will be
brought to light in what will appear to be an accidental and yet per-
fectly natural manner."
Neither then nor later could one form the least idea as to how
this could come about, but now, in a manner apparently accidental,
and yet perfectly natural, we were to find one of those pipes within
the next few minutes.
As the woman with the bucket approached it struck me that in
all probability we were trespassing ; for we had climbed over more
than one wall to reach the shed. I therefore greeted her with a
remark upon the beauty and extent of the view from where we were
standing. She responded suitably and we were soon in the midst of
conversation. With the puzzle of the pipes revolving in my mind,
I inquired whether children came to play there. She replied with
some animation that they certainly did, and not only so, but that
they often did mischief to the property ; for instance, they had
recently broken her pipe.
This mention of a pipe, while we were standing on the very spot
to which the clues had led us, awakened the hope that the end of
our quest was near. And so it was. For further inquiries elicited
the information that partway down the hill there was a spring from
which water issued through a pipe.
We proceeded down the hillside and presently came to a spring.
Water gushed from the earth by the side of the displaced pipe.
It was an iron pipe several feet in length, and, before its breakage,
the water had flowed through it. We had found one pipe, and it
was in the place to which the clues had led us. The discovery was
due to the apparently accidental meeting with the woman ; for' it
is distinctly unlikely that we could have found the spring and its
pipe but for her chance remark. Indeed we had not suspected its
existence when visiting the place a few days earlier. The pipe is
quite inconspicuous and not visible until one comes near, being
hidden by the formation of the ground.
I was now at a loss to understand why the word had always been
used in the plural. But further exploration discovered a second pipe,
a little further on, through which water was issuing from a spring.
The mystery of the pipes was at length solved. They were water
pipes.
Mat 1034 Private Meetings 235
This spring water is quite pure, but it is otherwise with the pools
formed where it flows upon the soil. These would be visited by
rats, wild birds, poultry, and other animals, and contaminated by
them. The drinking of such contaminated water by a child like
Bobbie, whose constitution had always been delicate, would be
likely to induce a condition of blood which might not readily reveal
itself but which would put him at a disadvantage when attacked
by illness. Such a sub-acute condition of infection might continue
for some time without manifesting itself. We are certain that Bobbie
frequently played by these pipes for several weeks. Then came the
illness which began with tonsilitis, turned to quinsy, and then to
diphtheria, which overcame him.
I have before me a report from the local Medical Officer of Health
saying that if a child drank from the water in these pools it would
be decidedly injurious to him.
This outline would be unduly lengthened by the inclusion of all
the references to Bobbie's death being traceable to infection from
the pipes. They were numerous, they were explicit, and, although
not verified for half a year, were proved ultimately to be accurate.
Analysis gives the following results. In the twelve sittings there
were 216 evidential items, and of these only 12 were definitely
wrong. Examining these we find that one was Etta's opinion about
Bobbie's general health. Feda was twice wrong while describing
what communicators " showed " her—apparently defective clair-
voyance on her part. The boy made nine errors ; 3 were his
expressions of opinion about happenings in the home since his
death ; other 3 were either defective recollection or blurred trans-
mission ; while the remaining 3 were attempts at proper names
—and Feda is often uncertain when trying to catch names.
Besides the above errors, there were 12 items too vague to count,
and 24 which remain doubtful.
The astonishing thing is that no less than 1 68 items were correct
;
in other words, in every nine statements seven have proved true to
fact. Such a proportion of success discredits any criticism based
upon the possibilities of chance coincidence.
I close with a remark of Feda's, " Some of the things I have got
from them I didn't understand ; and just a little bit of a twist
would give them a wrong meaning."
A discussion followed, in which Mrs Lyttelton, Miss Candler, The
Rev. J. W. Hayes, Mr Theodore Besterman, Dr. E. S. Dingwall,
Mr Hettinger, Mrs Adlercron, and Lady Barrett took part. It
centred round the question of the pipes : the quality of the water
in them ; whether the boy-friend who would know of the pipes had
been interrogated (this had been impossible owing to the effect of
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1934
the shock of Bobby's death) ; whether the communicator might
have had water suggested to him as the source of his illness when
still alive ;
and, finally, round the question as to whether chance
coincidence could account for the references to pipes. In regard to
this, Dr. Dingwall and Mr Besterman agreed that they thought that
chance coincidence might account for the references to pipes ; and
Mr Besterman pointed out that everything in that connexion de-
pended upon whether the pipes were in fact the cause of Bobby's
death. If they were, it was most important, and chance coin-
cidence was ruled out ; if not, there was no link between the death
and the pipes.
Telepathy and the Listener-In
The 128th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
28 March 1934, at 5.30 p.m., The President in the Chair.
Mrs W. H. Salter read a paper entitled " Telepathy and the
Listener-in," in which she reviewed the correspondence she had
received after her B.B.C. talk on telepathy, and related several
cases that had been reported to her, some of which, it is hoped,
will be printed in the Journal.
A discussion followed, Mr Hettinger, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas taking part.
CASES
Dream of a Monkey
L. 1300.
Miss Hertha B. C. Sollas, Southwell, 85 South End Road, London,
N.W. 3, wrote as follows to Professor Broad in a letter dated 23
March 1934 :
" I enclose herewith an account of two dreams which seem to be
telepathic. When I have a dream or impression which seems
significant I report them at once to my friend, in order to have a
witness, but do not write them down. I have collected these two
experiences because the subjects are unusual.
" [Signed] H. Sollas."
One of the two dreams described is a little too vague to be repro-
duced. The other is thus described by Miss Sollas :
" A vivid dream that a small monkey was running about on the
hedge along our garden path. I told my friend this dream at
breakfast. In the afternoon I visited a friend who asked me if she
might bring someone to tea who had a small monkey. When the
monkey came it ran about in some trellis work parallel to the
hedge."
May 1934 Cases 237
In reply to some questions sent to her by Mr Besterman, Miss
Sollas writes, in a letter dated 15 April 1934 :
" In reply to your letter of the 12th April, it is difficult at this
time to fix the exact date of my dream about the monkey. (1) The
year was definitely 1928 and the month must have been early June.
Place, above address.
" (2) I enclose an independent statement by Miss Parry."
[In the next two paragraphs Miss Sollas gives the names and
addresses of the friend who came to tea and of her friend whom
she brought with her and who owned the monkey.]
" (5) I did not know of the existence of the monkey until I had
tea with Miss B.
" In my dream I was particularly struck by the quick movements
of the monkey, and observed it more keenly than I should in life.
The colour of the dream monkey was slightly greyer and paler than
that of the real monkey."
The enclosed statement, from the same address_and dated 15
April 1934, reads as follows :
" I beg to corroborate Miss Sollas' story of her dream about the
monkey. She told me this story at breakfast before we knew of
the existence of the monkey. A few days later Miss F. brought
her monkey to tea. It ran about on the trellis and refused to
come in.
" [Signed] G. M. Parry."
In a further letter Miss Sollas kindly stated that she had no
objection to the printing of this account. Both she and Miss Parry
are former students of Newnham College. In view of the recent
discussion in the Journal about dreams of monkeys, it is interesting
so soon to have another to record. Although it is admittedly not a
very rare thing for women to dream of monkeys, the correspondence
in time and situation between the dream and the event in the
present case is sufficiently close to make a telepathic explanation
not improbable.
An Impression coinciding with an Illness subsequently
Fatal
L. 1301.
[The following is one of the cases sent to Mrs Salter as a result
of her broadcast request for supernormal experiences, a report of
which was read to the Society at a Private Meeting on 28 March
1934. All the documents involved are in Mrs Salter's possession,
and permission was given to use the name of the percipient, —Mrs
Humphries,—who wrote :
]
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1934
" Strangely enough I had a telepathic experience impression
from my brother in Australia two years ago. . . . He was taken
suddenly ill and to a Nursing Home there. He had some great
domestic trouble and his nerves gave way. I seemed to feel all
he did. I went out walking and when I came home I was so un-
strung that my husband who had never seen me like this before
was at a loss what to do for me. I said I knew something was
very wrong and wrote to a sister there [in Australia] at once to
enquire. Date was Oct. 23rd [1931]. Before there was time to
receive her reply a cable came telling of his death, Nov. 13 ; cable
said '
after exactly three weeks illness.' The subsequent letter
confirmed everything. He was calling me at the time too and
thought his nurse was I. . .
."
In reply Mrs Salter wrote to Mrs Humphries putting the following
questions :
1. Could she send a corroborative statement from her husband ?
2. Could Mrs Salter see the letter she had received from her sister
in Australia ?
3. As she referred to her brother having had " great domestic
trouble " and apparently had known of this at the time of
her experience, had she any special reason to be anxious at
that time.
In reply to this last question, Mrs Humphries wrote :
" His
domestic trouble was of two years standing and I was not worrying
about him at the time, but it came to a climax suddenly, which
made him so ill. He was taken suddenly ill enough to make it
necessary to be taken to a Nursing Home on the date Oct 23rd."
Mrs Humphries then went on to describe the nature of the crisis
which occurred in her brother's life
1
and suggested that the state
of nervous collapse which this caused may have contributed to her
experience,
—" this awful chaos of his mind which he conveyed
to me."
With Mrs. Humphries' second letter was enclosed a corroborative
statement from her husband as follows :
" I wish to testify to my wife's declaration concerning her
experience on October 23rd 1931, which subsequently proved
to be the beginning of her brother's illness.
" I arrived home and found her in a most alarming state of
emotion. I have never seen her in any way so upset before.
She is a very level-headed woman."
1
1 do not think it necessary to print Mrs Humphries' statement as to the
nature of her brother's trouble : it seems clear that she had no special reason
to be anxious about him at the time of her experience. H. de G. S.
May 1934 Cases 239
As further confirmatory evidence Mrs Humphries sent two
documents :
1. The cable received from her sister in Australia announcing her
brother's death. It was a " weekend telegram " from Perth,
received in London on November 16, 1931, addressed to Humphries
at the address from which the percipient wrote to Mrs Salter, and
read as follows :
" Jim passed away Friday evening [Nov. 13] after three weeks
illness from heart failure Eva."
Three weeks from November 13 brings us to October 24th. Mrs
Humphries' impression was on October 23rd, so that, allowing for
the fact that Australian time is about ten hours in advance of ours,
the coincidence is very close.
2. The other document sent to Mrs Salter by Mrs Humphries was
a photograph of her brother's grave in Australia upon which the
inscription was clearly legible :
C. J. M . 13 Nov. 1931.
A Monition
L. 1302.
In a letter dated 21 March 1934, Mrs M. Ramsey, of Clapton,
wrote to the Society as follows :
" As requested by different Speakers when broadcasting on the
subject of '
Enquiry into the Unknown,' I enclose a statement by
myself & countersigned.
" I also enclose the Post Card from my great friend, Mrs E.
Thomas of 71 Castle Road, Luton, Kent, informing me of the
sudden death of her husband early this morning. You will observe
that the time of posting confirms the so-called visitation was a
kind of premonition.
" I thought this may be useful to your Society as the experience
of a Listener. . . .
" [Signed] (Mrs) M. Ramsey."
The statement reads as follows :
" March 21st 1934.
" At about 2.30 a.m. this morning, whilst alone in my room, the
door of which was locked on the inside, I was awakened by the
consciousness of the presence of some human being other than
myself. I had a feeling of terror and remember calling out '
No,
No, No.' I mentioned the fact to Mr M. Benabo of 4 Powerscroft
Road, Clapton, at 10 a.m. this morning and Mr Benabo signed this
statement shortly after.
" [Signed] (Mrs) M. Ramsey.
M. Benabo."
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 193-1
The postcard from Mrs Thomas is clearly postmarked " Rochester
& Chatham, 9.15 a.m., 21 Mar. 1934," and reads as follows :
*'
My dear Min,
" Just a card to let you know Dear Dad passed away in his sleep
last night or earlier this morning.
" In haste, your broken-hearted " Em."
Mr Besterman addressed a number of questions to Mrs Ramsey,
who states in reply (in a letter dated 25 March 1934) that she
received the postcard at 9.30 p.m. on 21 March, that she had " never
had any such dream or similar experience before," and that she
" had no idea of Mr Thomas being so ill as he must have been."
The fairly, possibly very, close synchronisation of the experience and
the death must also be taken into account, as must the link between
the percipient and the presumed agent's wife. On the other hand
the percipient did not connect the experience with the agent.
CORRESPONDENCE
Precognition and Psychoanalysis
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—After reading the account of Mr John H. Williams's
dream of Hyperion winning the Derby, and Mr Saltmarsh's and
Mr Thomas's letters in the Journal for April, I fell asleep and dreamt
that I wrote what follows in the form of an Editorial comment on
Mr Williams's dream :
" In view of the familiar association between Hyperion and a
Satyr, '
a psycho-analytical interpretation might '
—indeed, must—
'
be introduced.' It is clear that the dreamer is, unhappily, not one
of those '
normal people who are courageous enough to face squarely
the facts and consequences of their own acts,' and that his '
strong
and yet repressed interest ' in Satyrs emerged in the form
'
Hyperion.'
" It has been objected that the resources of the device employed
in the Freudian method of dream-analysis are '
so wide that the
financial column of The Times could be construed as a sexual
article ;
'
but the explanation here offered of the true inwardness
of Mr Williams's dream is so simple and straightforward, and so
completely ignores the coincidence between the dream and the result
of the race, that it can hardly be said to involve the use of any
device at all."
Then, in the way in which events in dreams get telescoped, I
found myself arguing with the Editor of the Journal, who had
refused to accept my contribution on the ground that it might
cause offence to Mr Williams, and also deter others from sending
Mat 1934 Correspondence •241
in accounts of their dreams. I was saying in reply, " Well, what
about the psycho-analytical interpretation of Mrs C.'s dream about
a monkey that you printed in the March Journal 1
" when the
Editor banged the door, and this woke me up.
Yours, etc.
j Q Piddington.
P.S.—I should add, perhaps, that I have no objection to anyone
introducing a psycho-analytical interpretation of my dream,
although, I fear, it may bear some discreditable—and undreamt
of—significance.
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—With reference to the Dodds-Saltmarsh " Woman
chased by Monkey Dream Controversy " I would suggest that
the widespread popularity of Mr Burrough's " Tarzan " series of
novels must have raised enormously the number of the occurrences
of that particular type of dream. Tarzan is a man-ape whose
adventures are mainly of an amatory character—pursuing, or being
pursued by, a heroine of a supposedly higher evolutionary status
than himself.
Is it also possible that our controversialists have overlooked the
significance of King Kong ? Yours, etc.,
Q w -pisK
Dream of the Result of a Race
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—Far be it from me to seem to underestimate the un-
usualness of a Quaker's dreaming correctly the result of a race (see
the Journal, April 1934, pp. 216-8) but I would venture to suggest
to your readers that the significance of his dream was not perhaps
as great as people might suppose who have no interest in horse-
racing. If I am not mistaken, Hyperion started a firm favourite
for last year's Derby, with King Salmon equally firmly established
as second favourite. Statisticians will be able to show that the
odds against their finishing first and second were considerable, but,
on the other hand, the odds against any other two horses finishing
in those positions were greater still. In other words, if any Quaker
was going to dream the result of the Derby on the morning of the
race, he might reasonably forecast it in the way in which the gentle-
man did to whom you refer. Had the result of the race been a
surprise, or had he dreamed the correct result some time before the
race, the phenomenon would be of greater interest to both psychical
researchers and lay backers. Yours truly,
C. E. Bechhofer Roberts.
24*2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 193'4
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—In reference to the very interesting Dream Case reported
in the April Journal : though it is, I think, clearly inferred that the
dream was right, would it not have made the account somewhat
more clinching if the result of the race had been stated ? A search
of Whitakers Almanack reveals that it was won by a horse named
" Hyperion," but the name of the second is not mentioned
there.
From the above you will gather that, like the dreamer in this case,
I take no interest in horseracing. And it so happens that, a year
or two ago, when this particular race was imminent, I had a similar
dream, but a much less clear one, or, at least, much less clearly
remembered. It appears, however, that, in the morning I said to
my wife (who takes a slight annual interest in this race) that I
thought it might be won by a horse whose name began with " A "
and ended with " th," and that she searched the list for a name
something like " Ardath." The name of the winner that year was
" April the Fifth." My wife says now that, when I, in turn, looked
down the list, I picked out this name ; but I rather feel she is
subconsciously improving a hesitating suggestion, one among others.
At anyrate, she admits that she did not " put anything on it,"
though she adds that she can " never forgive herself !
"
Yours, etc.,
Hubert Wales.
[The result of the 1933 Derby was 1. Hyperion, 2. King Salmon,
3. Statesman, 4. Scarlet Tiger.
—
Hon. Ed.]
Time and Precognition
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I am grateful to Mr Tyrrell for his interesting comments
on my paper on Precognitions.
As regards his first point I need add little to your own remarks.
I think that besides cryptomnesia, properly speaking, there are
numerous examples of retrocognition in the sense in which you use
that term, viz., paranormal knowledge of past events. If Mr
Tyrrell will refer to my report on the Warren Elliott sittings he will
find that I there suggested an hypothesis to account for the function
of the relic which was based on an extension of the subliminal
specious present of the medium.
Although it lies outside the proper sphere of psychical research I
may be permitted to add that it seems possible to me that a plausible
theory of normal memory might be constructed on a similar basis.
Mat 1934 Correspondence 243
Mr Tyrrell's second point raises matters of great interest but I
fear that the pages of the Journal are hardly a suitable arena for
any gladiatorial combats on abstruse metaphysical & epistemo-
logical questions. As I know from experience such discussions
are apt to be, in fact can hardly help being, very long drawn out.
I think, therefore, my reply to this point must be to extend to
Mr Tyrrell a most hearty invitation " to step outside & take his
coat off " when I am sure we shall both enjoy ourselves immensely.
However, lest it be thought that I am simply shirking the issue, I
will briefly sketch the lines on which I should conduct my defence.
Mr Tyrrell accuses me of logical inconsistency. I cheerfully admit
the charge. Had my suggested hypothesis exhibited perfect logical
consistency throughout I should have regarded it with the gravest
suspicion, because I hold that true time, being an abstraction from
real change, i.e. the coming into existence of something entirely
new, & hence undetermined, is necessarily non-rational or, as
Campbell puts it, suprarational. It violates the fundamental
principles of logic.
My position in the matter is briefly as follows. If the universe
is completely determined I hold that there is no true time, though
events are subject to temporal order or location. But seeing that
events are presented to us as a series I hold that we, as conscious
beings, are subject to true time, & that there must therefore be a
strand of indetermination somewhere running through the whole
system. The existence of this strand of indetermination does not
imply that we possess freewill, though the converse is true, that is
to say, freewill implies indetermination.
As to whether we do possess freewill or not I am, theoretically,
completely uncertain, though practically I suppose that, like most
people, I accept the libertarian view, at anyrate, I act as though
I did.
But whether the necessitarian or libertarian view be correct, the
existence of this strand of indetermination renders it impossible to
hold that the universe is rational through & through. By this I
mean that the course of events is such that the processes of logical
reasoning are not properly applicable to all of it. I can see no
sufficient reason for holding that the universe must be rational
throughout & I think that I can see good reasons for holding the
opposite opinion.
It is not surprising therefore, that any hypothesis dealing with
true time, indetermination or freewill should exhibit logical
inconsistencies.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1934
On Cases of Precognition
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I would like to add a word on the subject of " Pre-
cognition," since I cannot suppose Mr Saltmarsh to be serious.
It is true, of course, that women are not followed by monkeys
every day in London. But how many women have children who
habitually walk down a lane on one side of which a pet monkey
resides ? For this is what happened in the case under discussion.
We merely have a woman dreaming she is pursued by a monkey
and then going for a walk past a house where one is living and from
which it has escaped !
As to the case of Mr Williams printed on pp. 216-218 of the April
Journal, I see that we are told that " the case is a good one." I
confess I do not understand the standards of evidence now accepted
by the Society. Hyperion was one of the fancied horses. Capt.
Heath of the News Chronicle was " committed to Hyperion " on
May 30th 1933 (cf. the issue of May 26, where the words occur, " I
anticipate the success of Hyperion "), and a photo of the animal was
printed on May 30th. Other journals also dealt with the possi-
bility of success, but apparently the normal sources of Mr Williams's
knowledge were not investigated. If this be " precognition " then
it is indeed common !
Yours, etc.,
E. J. Dingwall.
[In regard to neither of the cases to which he refers do Mr Ding-
wall's comments seem to us quite fair : (1) Most people will agree
with Mr Saltmarsh that it is an " extremely rare " incident for a
woman to be followed by a monkey in a London street ; (2) Mr
Dingwall entirely ignores the fact that Mr Williams, who appears
to be " a good witness," dreamt according to his own statement of
the first two horses, Hyperion and King Salmon, in the right order.
Mr Dingwall also ignores the editorial comment (xxviii. 218), which
makes it clear that the interest of the case was considered to be
partly psychological.
—
Hon. Ed.]
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Ltd.
April 1934.
[Three sittings with Mrs Dowden]. [Non-evidential material].—
Four " Katie King " Photographs. [These appear to be four of the
suppressed photographs of Katie King taken by Sir William Crookes.
Beyond the fact that they were found among the papers of Mr F. W.
Hayes, who died in 1918, we are given litt'e information concerning
May 1934 Notes on Periodicals 245
them, perhaps because no more is available. The photographs
themselves, failing the negatives, are of course of little value ; but
it would be idle to pretend that they inspire much confidence, even
taking them at their face value. The medium is not visible on any
of them and the sitters seem to be quite free]. —Prof. D. F. Fraser-
Harris, Sources of Error in Visual Observations in the Seance Room.
[A useful summary of the difficulties involved in visual perception
in the " dark "]. —The Margery Mediumship. [A summary of Mr
Thorogood's recent report].—Dr Nandor Fodor, The Problem of
Human Levitation. [A summary of the evidence].
Journal of the American Society for Psych ical Research . April 1934.
Record of the " X " Group. [Part III].—F. B. Bond, The
Inspiration of Glastonbury. [Part VII].—S. E. Anderson, Psyche,
the Immortal. [Part IX].
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie.
March 1934.—Dr Gerda Walther, New Experiments with the Nor-
wegian medium Fru "Ingeborg". [This most interesting medium's
faculties appear to continue unabated].—Dr Jan Simsa, Experiments
with the Prague physical medium Wolf. [This article concludes a
long series and summarises the phenomena].—Prof. August Messer,
Professor Erich Jaensch of Marburg on Telepathy. [A summary of
this distinguished psychologist's recent account of his own telepathic
experiences. It is interesting that Professor Jaensch, whose philoso-
phical views are such as not readily to admit telepathy, should have
accepted these experiences, although a critic might not find them
particularly convincing].—Franz Ettig, Psychometry and Ode.
April 1934. —Dr Carl Vogl, The Parapsychical Phenomena in
Prague-Branik. [The doubts more than once expressed in these
notes concerning the medium " Wolf " appear amply to be justified
by the present article, which reveals the conditions of the sittings
to have been wholly unscientific]. —F. M. Fellmann, Xenoglossy or
Phantasy ? [Some notes on the artificial language produced by a
medium].—A. Hofmann, The Comedy of a Rapping Poltergeist.
—
Alois Kaindl, No true Psychology without Parapsychology.—Dr
Erich Mengel, Contribution to the Explanation of Parapsychological
Phenomena on the Basis of the Fundamental Notions of a Dialectical
Metaphysic.—[From the shorter notes we learn that Lajos Papp
has recently been in Stockholm, where he was involved in a
" catastrophe "].
Zeitschrift fur Metapsychische Forschung, February 1934.
Conrad Schuppe, Frau Helga Hagen, a greatly gifted amateur
medium. [To be continued.]—K. Rothy, Apports of living Animals.
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1934
[On the medium Lajos Papp, whose phenomena remain as uncon-
vincing as ever]. —L. Gunther-Schwerin, A Provisional Series of
Proofs of Identity of Dead Persons.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, March 1934.
Dr H. A. C. Denier van der Gon, New Methods in the field of
Parapsychology, [A full summary of Lord Rayleigh's method of
silhouette photography]. —J. M. J. Kooy, An introspective investiga-
tion of the Dunne effect. [A series of precognitive dreams, recorded
without corroboration.]
La Ricerca Psichica.
February 1934. —E. Bozzano, On the Phenomena of " Transfigura-
tion". [To be continued].—R. Fedi, The Fechnerian Conception
of the Survival of the Soul. [Concluded].—G. Pioli, Recent Experi-
ments in Physical Mediumship and the "Direct Voice". [To be
continued]. —On the Problems of Human Radiation. [A discussion.]
March 1934. —Cesare Vesme, Metapsychics and the Spirit of
Negation. [The writer maintains that to be sceptical is not the
same thing as to be scientific, a contention no one is at all likely
to question. It may be suggested, however, that scepticism is an
essential part of scientific procedure].—E. Bozzano, On the Pheno-
mena of " Transfiguration." [To be continued]. —G. Pioli, Recent
Experiments in Physical Mediumship and the " Direct Voice."
[To be continued].
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 506,-Vol. XXVIII. June 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 2j June 1934, at $.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"THE FIRE WALK "
WILL BE READ BY
Mr ERNEST S. THOMAS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members,
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
Q
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1934
NEW MEMBERS
Butterfield, Mrs W. J. A., Ebor House, 71 Crystal Palace Park
Road, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
Chester, The Very Rev. The Dean of, The Deanery, Chester.
Enger, George, 6 Rue Cherif Pacha, Alexandria, Egypt.
St. Aubyn, The Hon. Mrs Francis, 61 Onslow Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
Wilkinson, Mrs C, c/o Manager, National Bank, 158 High Street,
Notting Hill, London, W. 11.
STUDENT ASSOCIATE
Harley, Dudley, Merton College, Oxford.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 318th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 May 1934, at 4 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest
Bennett, M.P., Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr Oliver Gatty, Mr Gerald
Heard, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, and Miss Nea
Walker ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Investigation Officer, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members and one Student Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
GENERAL MEETING
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities
The 182nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the Holborn
Restaurant, High Holborn, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 April 1934,
at 6.30 p.m., The President in the Chair.
Mr W. Whately Carington read a paper entitled " The Quanti-
tative Study of Trance Personalities, by the Methods of the Word
Association Test," which will, it is hoped, be published later in
Proceedings.
A discussion followed, in which Professor C. D. Broad, Professor
Flugel and others took part.
Jdne 1934 Private Meeting 249
PRIVATE MEETING
The 129th Private Meeting of the Society was held on "Wednesday,
30 May 1934, at 5.30 p.m., The President in the Chair.
Mr Oliver Gatty gave an informal Report on the Society's
recent investigation of Rudi Schneider and described the apparatus
used. A formal Report of the investigation as a whole will be
published later in Proceedings.
A discussion on Mr Gatty's paper followed, in which the following
took part : Mr Theodore Besterman, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Professor
E. R. Dodds, Mrs Goldney, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Jephson and
Lord Ravleigh.
CASES
Premonitory Dream of a Death
P. 303.
Mr J. C. Moore. 124 New Chester Road. Port Sunlight, wrote as
follows to the President in a letter dated 23 February 1934 :
" Having heard your talk . . . thought I would write to you about
a dream I had at Christmas twelve months back. I will not go
into details, the dream came true, sorry to say. I dreamt that my
chum who live[d] next door was killed. That was Christmas Eve.
He was crossing the road two days later, & was knocked down by
a large lorry & killed. It was a terrible dream. I told my wife &
daughter about the dream, but they thought it a joke. I rather
blamed myself for not telling him, but did not wish to upset him."
Mr Besterman asked for fuller particulars and for corroborative
statements from Mr Moore's wife and daughter. In reply he re-
ceived the following letter, dated 20 March 1934 :
". . . I had no thoughts of my friend because my mind was full
of Christmas, but at about 2 p.m. in the morning I dreamt that I
saw my friend and next door neighbour—whose name was Cecil
Haughton—run over and killed. I awoke perspiring and imme-
diately told my wife of the dream. I mentioned it the next morning
to my daughter who remarked that it was a horrible thing to dream.
As Mr Haughton had been away from business suffering from
neurasthenia I hesitated to tell him of the dream, but did mention
that I had been dreaming of him.
On December 30th he was killed when crossing the road a few
yards from his own house. I told his widow of course that this
was my dream.
So that my wife and daughter may bear out these statements I
have asked them to sign the letter below. /ri . T « -»«
(Signed) J. C. Moore
A. Moore
P. Moore"
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1934
Mr Besterman then inquired whether Mr Moore had had any
reason to suppose that his friend might meet with an accident,
as from weakness following his illness ; he also asked for inde-
pendent evidence of Mr Haughton's death. In reply, Mr Moore
wrote as follows, in a letter dated 4 April 1934 :
" Mr Haughton had been working a lot of overtime, and this
told upon his nerves, which were not too strong after his having
been buried with a shell in the war. In spite of that he was a jolly
fellow, and the last man to have an accident of the kind. Even
when I had my dream I could not believe that that would be his
end.
He was 41 years of age. We used to swim and cycle together.
He was, in fact, getting better and was going to Southport for two
weeks' final recuperation before returning to work. On the day of
his accident he had packed his bag for Southport, and was running
up to the Doctor's to get some papers before he went away for the
fortnight. I can only imagine that his mind was occupied when he
crossed the road. In fact, on such a road as New Chester Road
a man has to have his wits about him when crossing. Curiously
enough, he had been round to the Doctor's the previous evening,
but the Doctor had been called out, and it was therefore necessary
for Mr Haughton to go again the following morning, which he did
not intend doing.
At the inquest a verdict of '
Accidental death '
was returned."
Mr Moore also sent a copy of the issue of Port Sunlight News for
11 January 1933, in which (p. 23) appears the following obituary
notice :
" 29th December, Cecil Maurice William Haughton, 126,
New Chester Road, Port Sunlight. Aged 41 years ;
service, 27
years. While away ill from business, suffering from neurasthenia,
was accidently killed on New Chester Road."
It will be seen that there is some slight discrepancy as to the date
of the accident ; but there seems to be no doubt about the main
fact that Mr Moore dreamed of his friend's death in a road accident
a few days before this actually occurred. The dangerous nature of
the road and the nervous illness of Mr Haughton certainly tend to
suggest a normal explanation. Nevertheless, the fairly close
approximation in time of the dream and of the death remains note-
worthy.
Veridical Dream of a Present
P. 304.
In a letter dated 15 March [1934] Mrs M. Feuerheerd, of Illereichen,
Post Altenstadt in Schwaben, Bavaria, wrote as follows to Professor
Broad, from 140 Westbourne Grove, London, W. 11 :
June 1934 Cases 251
"... Perhaps the following would interest you, which happened
to me on Feb. 27th this year. I am staying with my mother whose
birthday was on Feb. 27. The evg. before, the postman brought a
registered parcel for her which I took in & signed for. This was
put away for the next morning. That night I dreamt about the
parcel & saw that an old-fashioned flat gold bracelet was taken out
of it, of a byegone shape with little flat gold flowers on it. I was
surprised, as I had never seen such a bracelet. When I came to
breakfast the parcel was on the table still unpacked. I said to my
mother—I dreamt last night that an old-fashioned flat bracelet
was being sent in that parcel for you—She opened the parcel &
took out the exact bracelet which I had dreamt about, a gold flat
one with small gold flowers on it. It is quite impossible to explain
how I should have known about the bracelet ; I had never seen it
before.
I may add that I have had a great many queer dreams in the last
years. ..."
Mr Besterman wrote to ask for an independent statement from
Mrs Feuerheerd's mother, who wrote as follows from 140 West-
bourne Grove, in a letter dated 24 March 1934, Mrs Feuerheerd
having in the meanwhile returned to Germany :
" A small packet was brought to me by my daughter on Feb.
26th which had just been delivered by the last post, 9 p.m. It
was not opened until next morning—my birthday.—As she came
into the room she said
1
I dreamt that I watched you open the
parcel which came last evening & saw you take out an old-fashioned
flat gold bracelet '. I then opened packet and much to our surprise
found its contents as she had described. She said it made her feel
quite queer as the pattern of the bracelet in every detail was exactly
what she had seen in her dream. Its former owner has been dead
many years & my daughter did not know of its existence.
(Signed) Florence Shackleford "
The most obvious explanation of this experience is clearly tele-
pathy, and the question therefore arises whether there exists any
link between the donor of the bracelet and the percipient. On this
point Mrs Shackleford writes, in reply to a question :
" I do not
think that my daughter's dream could be explained by telepathy
as she knew very little of my friend who sent the bracelet & had
not seen her for over twenty years."
A Collective Visual Hallucination
G. 297.
The following letter was addressed to Professor CD. Broad. It
is dated 27 March 1934, from 165 Deerpark Road, Cliftonville,
Belfast
:
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1934
". . . In the year 1920, 1 was serving in the Royal Navy—my ship'
was based at Portland, Dorset. In consequence of being a married
man I had a temporary home in that place for my wife and small
baby son.
My mother-in-law resided at Londonderry, Ireland, and when I
was given '
Leave '
—both myself, wife and family frequently
returned to Londonderry to spend our holidays in her home. It
was during one of these visits that the following covenant was
drawn up between my wife's mother and I.
'
Should I die before her I would come back and visit her if
possible '
—and the same was to apply in her case. —This was agreed
in my wife's presence.
We returned to Portland in due course and I quite forgot the
incident, but the other partner to this strange agreement was in
the meanwhile unexpectedly called to the place of many '
Mansions
'
but had not forgotten her part in the play of this strange drama.
About six months after this incident, whilst the clocks were
chiming the midnight hour, there appeared by the bedside occupied
by my wife and myself the spiritual form of my wife's mother.
—
She looked beautiful in her Angelic state, as she stood there quite
close to Baby's cot, which was in close proximity to our bed. Her
earthly stay only occupied a few seconds—but quite long enough to
convince us that she had kept her promise.
This was witnessed by myself & wife simultaneously and ap-
parently by Baby who gave a slight shout as if he was also aware
of her presence.
We the undersigned are prepared to make an oath as to the
accuracy of this statement. ,, T f-,
,,
J
(Signed) J. E. Moore
Marjorie Moore "
In reply to questions addressed to them by Mr Besterman, Mr
and Mrs Moore added in a letter dated 17 April 1934 that the name
of Mrs Moore's mother was Annie Jane Elliot, that she died on
21 December 1921 at Moss Cottage, Collan Lane, Londonderry,
that the date on which the apparition was seen was about March
1922 and the address 22 Grove Road, Portland. Asked for a more
detailed description of the apparition Mr and Mrs Moore write in
the same letter :
" Her spirit appeared to be enveloped in a very
transparent mist, which acted as a shroud for the spirit body—yet
giving a very clear outline. Her face shone with a heavenly ex-
pression—beautiful indeed. We were too much taken by surprise
to speak—and her stay so short it did not afford us much time to-
do so."
It will be seen that there is here no question of telepathy, since
the apparition occurred when the death was already known to the
June 1934 Cases 253
percipients. Nevertheless, any hallucination experienced by two,
and possibly three, persons simultaneously, is sufficiently interesting
to be worthy of record. The compact can be regarded as some
evidence that the apparition may really have been due to some
activity on the part of the dead woman ; on the other hand it may
equally well be regarded as a sufficient cause for a self-suggested
hallucination.
[From among interesting material received as a result of her
recent broadcast talk, and prepared by herself for future publica-
tion, Mrs Salter very kindly allows the four following to appear in
the Journal together with her comments. All names and addresses
are known, though not all may be printed :
—
Hon. Ed.]
A Death-Coincidence
L. 1303.
Miss Margaret Jones, the percipient, wrote as follows :
" I have to go into details to explain the circumstances : I was
on night duty (as a professional nurse), which explains why I was
asleep in the day-time. One evening, May 19, 1931, I was startled
out of my sleep by a voice which called out my name distinctly,
'Margaret, Margaret'. I felt positive that someone had been in
my room by my bed and rushed out again. I was never called by
my Christian name at the hospital ;
however, I did not pay much
attention to that, as I was asleep. I thought it must have been
the maid calling the night-nurses, and she had not switched my
light on. I got out of bed and looked down the corridor. I did not
hear or see anybody. I looked at my clock ; it was 5.30 p.m. This
was quite early, as we were not called until 7.30 p.m. I sat up in
bed, thinking over the strangeness of the situation. However, I
dropped off to sleep again.
At breakfast that night I told some of my colleagues about my
strange experience and they just joked about it. I went on duty
at 10.30 p.m. The night-sister came to me and called me to one
side and asked me did I know anyone living at . I said, '
Yes,
my sister lives there '. '
Well, Nurse,' she said, '
I am afraid there is
bad news for you '.
She handed me a telegram which said,—
'
Darling Peggy passed away at 5.30 p.m.'. The telegram had been
opened by Sister, as there were five Nurse Jones's in that particular
hospital. Peggy was my little niece, age, eight years. We were
great friends. She was taken suddenly ill and an immediate opera-
tion was performed, but she only lived a few hours. When I met
my sister I told her what I had experienced and she told me that
the child called out '
Margaret ', and. she remarked to her husband,
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June i«34
'
Is she calling herself, or Aunty Margaret ? '. It is a strange fact
that the stated time of the child's death on the wire was 5.30 p.m.,
just about the time that I was disturbed from my sleep. I did not
know the child was ill ; it was very sudden. I cannot describe my
feelings as I read the telegram, which reminded me of my strange
experience at 5.30 p.m."
The following corroborative statement was sent by the child's
mother :
" This is to certify that my husband and I were present at the
death of my little daughter on May 19, 1931. It is true that she
called out '
Margaret ' and that at the time I remarked to my
husband, '
Is she calling out her own name or Aunty's 1
'
and that
two days afterwards I learnt from my sister that she had been dis-
turbed from her sleep by a voice calling out Margaret (twice), and
that the same evening she received a telegram from us, informing
her of the death of our child."
One of Miss Jones's colleagues, to whom, as stated above, she
mentioned her experience at the time, has also sent a corroborative
statement, as follows :
" This is to certify I was present in May 1931 when Margaret
Jones related her dream with reference to her niece calling."
A Death-Coincidence
L. 1304.
The following case was sent to me immediately after my broad-
cast talk on February 16th 1933, the experience having occurred
during the night of February 14th- 15th. The percipient, Mr
Bertram (pseudonym), wrote as follows :
" The following details of a dream I had on Thursday and its
fulfilment may be worth recording :
On waking I could recall that I had been standing in a room
with a number of other people ; it seemed to be a social affair,
although this impression was indefinite. Suddenly I saw an old
man just in front of me ; we smiled at one another in recognition
and at the same instant he dropped to the floor. He was literally
in a heap, as it were,—head, legs, arms at unnatural angles, all
mixed up with his black clothes.
As he fell, I picked him up from the floor in one movement
and put him over my shoulder, and as I did so, I had a feeling of
terror. The body was featherweight and everything about it was
loose and soft. I carried it to a seat and sat it beside me. Then the
face looked at me again and smiled. The dream then faded, and
I woke.
June 1934 Cases 255
The sequence of events detailed in the last two paragraphs was
extraordinarily vivid and clear, standing out from the surroundings.
The central point was the fall of the old man and then my picking
him up quickly.
I related all this to my family and told them that the old man
of my dream appeared to me to be one of the directors of the firm
with whom I am employed, although I felt hazy on this point.
The whole thing made a great impression on me. I went to my
office as usual and again related my dream to a business friend. I
felt anxious—my dream meant something, but I did not know what.
I returned home and then received a message from a brother
living at C ,
saying that my father had collapsed and died
earlier in the day at — - Home Hospital, where he had been lying
for over a year."
In reply to this statement I wrote to Mr Bertram asking whether
he could send me a corroborative statement from one of the people
to whom he had mentioned his dream before he heard of his father's
death, and also whether he had any reason to anticipate that the
death might occur at that particular time. In reply to this second
question Mr Bertram informed me that he had no reason to expect
his father's death at the time of his dream, as he had neither seen
him, nor had news of him for several months. His illness was of a
chronic nature.
In reply to the first question, Mr Bertram sent a corroborative
statement from his wife, as follows :
" I have seen the letter sent to you and I certify that the parti-
culars of my husband's dream were related to me by him on the
morning of 15th February 1934, about eight hours before we re-
ceived information from his brother that their father W. B. had
passed away at the Home."
With regard to the interpretation of Mr Bertram's dream there
are three points to which attention may be called : (1) it was evi-
dently an unusually vivid dream and made a great impression on
Mr Bertram before he had any reason to consider it veridical ;
(2) although he did not consciously realise in his dream that the
old man was dead, his feeling of terror, when he lifted the body,
suggests that the idea of death may have been subconsciously
present in his mind ; (3) it is a commonplace of psycho-analytical
interpretation that the father is often concealed in dreams under
the symbol of some person in authority over the dreamer. This
seems to me to increase the probability that Mr Bertram's dream
about an old man whom he identified (rather dubiously) with one
of the directors of the firm by whom he is employed, was in fact a
dream about his father.
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June l'jai
j „„g A Death-Coincidence
Here is another dream, almost as recent as the last, and also
connected with a death. Mr Taylor, the dreamer, wrote as follows :
" In 1912 I was '
best man '
to a friend who has not seen much of
me since, but I did know he was laid up with a severe cold. On
Sunday night last (the night between February 1 1 and February 12)
I dreamt we met with a few other men at an open grave ; he turned
to me and said, '
I am going to be buried '
; then after a short pause
he turned away and said, '
No, I would rather have my dinner '.
The dream then faded out. Next day I learnt that he had died
about twenty-four hours previous to my dream. I was astonished,
because I had never dreamed of him before."
I wrote to Mr Taylor putting three questions :
(1) Could he give
the name of any person to whom he had mentioned his dream
either before or immediately after hearing of his friend's death ?
(2) How long before the dream had he heard of the illness and had
he any reason to think it was likely to be fatal ? (3) Would he in con-
fidence give his friend's name? Mr Taylor wrote in reply, as follows :
" My dream occurred in the early hours of Monday (February
12th). On going to town that morning I called at my brother's
office and before I had time to tell him anything, he remarked, '
I
suppose you know that K— - is dead ', and I replied, '
Well, that is
remarkable. I was just going to tell you I dreamt of him last night '.
This was the first time I had mentioned the dream to anyone.
My brother had seen more of Mr K than I had of late years.
His illness was known to me perhaps a week or fortnight before he
passed on. I don't remember thinking of him at all on the days
preceding."
I then wrote again to Mr Taylor, asking for his brother's corro-
boration, and received in reply a statement from Mr W. C. Taylor
to the effect that Mr Taylor had told him of his dream immediately
on his announcing the fact of Mr K 's death.
The evidential value of this case is to some extent weakened by
the fact that Mr Taylor knew of the illness ; on the other hand it
seems clear from his statement that the matter was not at all on his
mind. Moreover, the dream was perfectly definite and explicit, and
it coincided closely in time with Mr K— -'s death.
-j-
~t ~> r f~*
A Ca.se Coinciding with Illness
L. 1.30b.
Mrs McCutcheon, the percipient, wrote as follows :
" I do not know what name to give it, but I have a gift of what
I call '
vision '. I describe things to my daughter before they come
Junk 1934 Cases 257
to pass, I get mental pictures, and I '
feel '.
Here is a very good
example of what I mean. Last year on the 23rd of May at 2 o'clock
in the morning I wakened suddenly as if someone had touched me
(I sleep alone) and I saw a '
vision '
in my bedroom of what I took
to be my brother who lives in Edinburgh lying very ill and low,
looking tremendously sad. In the morning I told my daughter
about it and I wrote down the date at the time, because I knew I
would hear about this later on. I heard after some time that my
brother in Edinburgh was well ;
still I knew I had not seen that
'
vision '
for nothing and decided to wait.
My brother from Canada arrived in July last year. He had
never been in the habit of writing to me, so that I knew nothing
about his circumstances. When I went to meet him at the boat.
I noticed how ill he was. We got into conversation and it transpired
that he had been moved to hospital in Canada exactly on the 23rd
of May. These '
visions '
are not sometimes so clear as to correctly
distinguish faces, and as my brothers are much alike, I easily mis-
took one brother for the other."
I wrote in reply to ask Mrs McCutcheon whether she could let
me have corroborative statements from her daughter and her
brother ; I also asked whether it was in a diary that she had noted
the date of her vision. This was her reply :
" My brother is still with me and has enclosed to you a statement
which will speak for itself. I have an out-of-date calendar at the
side of my dining-room mantelpiece, on which I put addresses and
'phone numbers at the back, so that I can quickly refer to them
at a moment's notice. In the midst of all these jottings I have
plainly written down '
2 o'c in morning of 23rd May '.
Many
addresses were added since that morning I jotted down my vision
and I still have the calendar hanging on the wall."
With this letter were enclosed statements from Mrs McCutcheon's
daughter and from her brother, as follows :
(1)
" My mother has asked me to confirm her vision on 23rd
May 1933. In the morning when she came down to breakfast she
told me about it and she said she was going to take a note of it,,
which she did in my presence."
(2)
" My sister, Mrs. McCutcheon, has been corresponding with
you with regard to a vision she saw of me in Canada, when I was ill
last year, and you have asked her, I believe, to procure a statement
from me regarding my mental state at the time. When I entered
the hospital on May 23, 1933, I was only thinking of my condition,
my health being very poor ; I was not thinking of any of my rela-
tives, as I had no intention at that time of coming to this country."
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1934
Taking into account the fact that in the part of Canada in which
Mrs McCutcheon's brother was living the time is about 7 hours
behind English time, 2 a.m. on May 23, 1933, in England was about
9 p.m. on May 22, 1933, in Canada, that is, the evening before he
went to hospital. The weak point in this case is the confusion
between the two brothers, but this seems to me just the kind of
mistake which is likely to happen. The vision conveyed to Mrs.
McCutcheon the idea of a sick man, who was her brother, and her
conscious mind misinterpreted it.
Telepathy or Coincidence ?
In a letter dated 26 February 1934, Mrs M. Evans, Pakenham
House, Edgbaston, Birmingham, wrote as follows to the President
:
" In the summer of 1921, returning from a stay in Normandy, I
was waiting on the pier at Dieppe for my boat's departure. At the
same time my son was making his way down the west coast of France
on a business trip to Bordeaux, where he was due that same evening.
My friend and I were chatting, when suddenly I opened my note-
case and took out a fifty-franc note (worth at that time about
twenty-five shillings) and said, '
I must post this to B. at Bordeaux '.
My friend tried to dissuade me ; there was no reason to think my
son was short of funds, but I made for the nearest post-office, and
registered him the note. Almost at that identical time, having
taken out his note-case to buy his tickets, his movements were
watched, and when he got into the train, he found his pocket-book
had been stolen, he had only a few francs wherewith to arrive in a
strange town late on Friday evening, with no hope of getting funds
even by wire till Monday or Tuesday. You can imagine his surprise
at getting the registered letter from myself, first thing next morning.
The utter truth of this can be vouched for."
At Mr Besterman's request Mrs Evans kindly supplied the names
and addresses of her son and of the friend referred to in her state-
ment. The latter did not reply to an inquiry, but Mr Burke A.
Evans, c/o Agard and Co. Ltd., Warwick Chambers, Birmingham,
wrote as follows in a letter dated 25 March 1934 :
" In reply to your letter of March 20th I have pleasure in enclosing
an account of the incident to which you refer.
In fairness, however, I must say that I have always regarded
the matter as a coincidence, albeit a fortunate one ; the circum-
stances lend themselves fully as well to a material explanation as to
telepathic theory.
In support of the one you have the very natural circumstance of
June 1934 Cases 259
a lady, finding herself with a small sum in francs left over from her
holiday, sending it on to her son in the same country ; for the other,
you have a boy in great distress of mind, possibly conveying a sense
of need to a sympathic mind.
(Signed) Burke A. Evans,
B.Sc. (Birm.), M.Sc. (McGill)."
The enclosed statement reads as follows :
" One afternoon in August 1921, upon arrival in Nantes, I dis-
covered that my pocket-book had been stolen on the journey, leaving
me in a strange town with but a few francs. The house at home was
closed ;
my father was travelling in Switzerland, with address un-
certain ; and my mother would be crossing that afternoon from
her holiday resort in Normandy and would be out of reach by wire
for two days.
I was considerably worried and it was a great relief to receive
the next morning a 50 fr. note, from my mother, posted on the
previous afternoon from Dieppe ; it was accompanied by a short
note, saying that instead of changing the French money, she was
sending it on to me.
It may be relevant to state that my mother and myself have
always been exceptionally sympathetic ; and that neither previously
nor subsequently, have I received money from her in this way,
except on the occasions of Christmas, birthday, etc."
Mr Burke Evans has very well stated the arguments for and
against regarding this as a paranormal experience, and there is
nothing to add to his observations.
CORRESPONDENCE
Precognition.
To the Editor of The Journal
Madam,—Mr Saltmarsh's paper on Precognitions (Proc. xlii. 134)
which gives a digest of fifty years' accumulation of evidence on one
of the most important subjects on which Psychical Research is
engaged, is a document which should surely receive a very thorough
discussion at the hands of leading members of the Society, especially
of those who realise how far-reaching from a philosophical point
of view is any evidence bearing on the question of the nature of
Time. It might have been hoped that a careful and comprehensive
criticism would have been put forward, if not of the whole mass of
the evidence, at least of the best and most typical cases : and if a
discussion of Mr Saltmarsh's theory is out of place in the Journal of
260 Correspondence Junk I !)34
such, a Society as ours, a criticism of thefacts would at any rate have
given the generality of members an idea of what the evidence may
fairly be considered to have established. One might have hoped to
discover from this whether we are in a position to say that there are
cases on actual record for which no explanation other than pre-
cognition can be reasonably put forward.
But as such a general criticism does not seem to have been
provoked, may an indistinguished member of the Society be
permitted to ask one or two pertinent questions ?
( 1 ) Is anyone prepared to put forward a theory (or theories)
alternative to that of genuine precognition which will apply to, say,
the group of cases quoted on pp. 60-63 of Mr Saltmarsh's report ?
(2) Does anyone think, in view of the evidence of the whole 281
cases here collected, that prevision is less likely to be a fact than not
to be a fact ?
Attention seems to have been concentrated so far on a single
case, viz. the " monkey " case, with the result that the main issue
has been obscured. Professor Dodds has suggested that the
Freudian view of dreams increases the probability that any given
dream will be fulfilled by chance, because dreams do not take place
at random but are apt to follow selected routes along certain lines
of symbolism. Even granting that allowance must be made for
this in estimating the chance-factor, I suggest that the principle is
irrelevant in many of the cases, particularly in those dreams which
were fulfilled in detail. Take for example case P. xi. 577—a dream
three times repeated. What bearing has any theory of dreams on
this case and on the other cases like it ? A concatenation of details
is dreamed and these details afterwards occur. The only question
to be decided (provided the story be accepted as true) is whether
the coincidence between the dream and the incidents which after-
wards occurred was due to chance or not. Whether we can trace
symbolism, or indeed what psychological dream-processes were
involved, does not matter in the least : it is totally irrelevant.
It would be of real interest to know, even in the case of this single
example, (1) how many critics believe that this dream, as reported,
never occurred, (2) how many believe that the dream did occur
as reported, but that its fulfilment was due to chance, (3) how many
believe that it did occur and that it was a genuine case of pre-
cognition. I venture to think that an outspoken expression of
opinion by experienced members of the Society on such points as
these would be of immense value, for it would give to everybody
interested in the Society's work a gauge of what has been achieved
during fifty years on one of the main issues—possibly even the
most important issue—on which psychical research is engaged :
that is to say, whether or not a ray of light of an empirical kind
June 1934 Correspondence 261
has been shed on that group of central problems which cluster round
the meanings of such words as " existence," " becoming," " the
actual," '.'
the potential " and the like.
Precognition does no doubt seem a bizarre suggestion when set
in the context of the common-sense world ; but we cannot too often
remind ourselves that in the realm of speculative thought, no sober
world of common sense exists. That comfortable refuge was
destroyed long ago by the philosophers ; and I think it is safe to say
that the problem of Time has already been rendered so paradoxical
and obscure by the different schools of philosophical thought that
precognition, even if proved, would add but little to the bizarre
nature of the situation which already exists. We have to bear in
mind that the problems presented by normal sense-perception lead
logically to situations which are not a whit less otitre and extra-
ordinary than the so-called " supernormal " problems of clair-
voyance and telepathy. As Mr Bertrand Russell once remarked :
" Common sense leaves us completely in the dark as to the true
intrinsic nature of physical objects. . . . The truth about physical
objects must be strange. It may be unattainable, but if any
philosopher believes that he has attained it, the fact that what he
offers as the truth is strange ought not to be made a ground of
objection to his opinion."
Is it too much to hope that some members of this Society who
think that the evidence collected in Mr Saltmarsh's paper has
brought to light cases which cannot reasonably be explained except
on the hypothesis of precognition will candidly say so : and, on the
other hand, that some of those who think that all these cases can
more reasonably be explained on alternative hypotheses will
demonstrate their view ? Otherwise it looks as if much of the
careful work of our predecessors would be left in the lumber-room.
Yours, etc.,
G. N. W. Tyrrell.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metapsychique, March-April 1934.
E. Osty, A Faculty of Paranormal Knowledge : Mile Jeanne
Laplace. [To be continued].—H. Mangin-Balthazard, Does the
Hand reveal Supernormal Faculties ? [To be continued]. —E.
Pascal, Psychoanalysis. [A brief and critical survey].
—
G. van
Rynberk, Eighteenth Century Occultism and Metapsychology in
France. [This second instalment is devoted to Willermoz and
Cagliostro].
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, junk.1934
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychique, April 1934.
Maurice Schaerer, The Knights of the Noumenon. [Under this,
intriguing title the writer surveys a new theory of spiritualism].—
L. Vandermeulen, Monograph of the Henri Vandermeulen apparatus..
[To be continued].
Zeitschrift fur Metapsychische Forschung, April 1934.
Konrad Schuppe, Frau Helga Hagen, a Widely Endowed Amateur
Medium. [To be concluded]. —Dr A Tanagra, Premonition or
Psychobolia. —Dr Simsa, Interesting observations in Physical
Mediumship with the Prague medium Wolf.—Dr Erich Peterson,.
Two Apports.
La Ricerca Psichica, April 1934.
E. Servadio, Light on the Margery case. [A review of Mr Thoro-
good's recent report]. —Remo Fedi, Spiritualism among the Indian
Tribes in America. [This article hardly scratches the surface of a
very large subject]. —I. P. Capozzi, Metapsychosis in the Animism
of the Sicilians. [To be continued]. —Giovanni Poli, Recent experi-
ments in Physical Mediumship and the " Direct Voice ". [To be
continued].
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 507.—Vol. XXVIII. July 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting- of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 July 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER BY
DR CARL BRUCK
ON
"EXPERIENCES IN RECIPROCAL TELEPATHY"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr W. H. Salter
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.4$ p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
E
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1934
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Tuesday,
31 July, until Monday, 10 September. Correspondence will
be forwarded to the staff during this time. The next
number of the "Journal" will be issued in October.
Members are asked to return, renew or exchange Library books
before 31 July. Each Member may borrow as many as six volumes
for the vacation before the Rooms close.
The Investigation Officer will be abroad on the Society's business
until about the end of November.
FORTHCOMING MEETINGS
26 September. " The Response to a Broadcast Talk on Precog-
nition." By the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.
24 October. " Memory in Relation to Psychical Research." By
Professor Dr Hans Driesch.
DONATIONS FOR RESEARCH AND PRINTING
Anonymous ------ £1000 0 0
jLord Charles Hope (£39 12s. 3d.) and
friends (£225), for the investigation of
Rudi Schneider ----- 264 12 3
JMr Oliver Gatty, for the investigation of Rudi
Schneider ------ 200 0 0
*Mr C. J. A. Evelyn, for apparatus for the in-
vestigation of Rudi Schneider JO 4 0
Lord Charles Hope, for the investigation of
Rudi Schneider ----- 4 3 1
*Mrs E. W. Allison ----- 41 0 0
Mr Fred Barlow (two contributions) - 20 10 0
*Anonymous ------ 15 0 0
Anonymous ------ 15 0 0
Major W. Rampling Rose (two contributions)
*Mrs W. M. Crunden ----- 12 2 0
L0 10 6
*J. W. Findlater ------ 2 2 0
* Donations so marked were received in 1933.
f In addition to the loan of valuable apparatus.
I In addition to a gift of valuable apparatus.
July 1931 Telepathy and Sleep -walking 265
TELEPATHY AND SLEEP-WALKING
The following experiences cannot be regarded as evidential in the
ordinary sense, for in the nature of the case they are not capable of
being corroborated. Nevertheless, the narrator being clearly a good
witness and the incidents of much interest, they should, we think,
be placed on record.
In a letter dated 23 February 1934, Mr Arnold G. Hansard, Hel-
ford, Luscombe Road, Parkstone, Dorset, wrote to the President
as follows :
" I was much interested in your broadcast on telepathy : and I
think that the following experience may interest you and is worth
recording : the explanation of the actions of my wife seems to be
due to some kind of telepathy.
My wife has been subject to '
sleep-walking '
from time to time
for many years. The following incidents took place in Nairobi.
On account of her sleep-walking I have made it a rule to lock
the outer doors and put the keys away where I thought she would
be unable to find them.
Expce. 1 . There were 3 keys to doors leading out of the bungalow.
Before going to bed I hid these keys and from time to time changed
the place of hiding. One night I was just coming from my bath
—my wife having gone to bed a little previously—when I heard
the door from the dining-room on to the verandah close , and hasten-
ing out was just in time to catch her walking out fast asleep. I had
hidden the keys under a writing pad, which lay on the writing
table. I did not wake her up—but next day she told me that she
dreamt I had told her that she would find the keys under the writing
pad (and that the right hand one was the key of the dining-room
door. This last statement is very difficult to understand—because
actually I put the keys down at random, and had to examine them
in the morning to tell which was which before replacing them :
see No. 4).
2. In a different bungalow I had hidden the two keys, one in
the dining-room under a gramophone and the other on the top of
some books in a book-case in the back-passage. This time I had
not gone to bed and I saw her come into the dining-room and go
straight to the gramophone table and take the key and go with it
to the door on to the verandah. I took the key out of her hand
as she was putting [it] into the door : this seemed to puzzle her,
but she went straight into the passage, felt along the top of the
books and found the back-door key, then I led her back to bed.
Next morning she again told me that she had dreamt I told her
where to find the keys.
b2
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 19:h
3. In the same bungalow as (2) I had adopted as a hiding place
a brass^pot shaped like a large glass tumbler which contained a
number of porcupine quills. I used to think as I put them in '
she
will never go feeling for them here, as she would prick her hands
on the quills !
'
One night I found she had got out of the house
and found her about 200 yds away ! I got her back without waking
her : and next morning she told me she dreamt I told her she
would find the keys in the pot with the porcupine quills '
and mind
you don't prick your fingers '
!
Since then I have always placed the keys under the mattress
of our bed so that she would have to disturb me to get them
—
she
has never tried to get them.
4. This experience has no telepathic interest, but seems to
have some bearing on her knowing the right key in (1) and thinking
that I had told her which it was (which otherwise I should have
thought was mere coincidence). When we came to this house,
I used to take the front and back door keys away, and one night
just as I was coming from my bath I heard my wife on the stairs :
coming to her I found her in great distress : she had gone out
asleep into the road, had scared a passer by who screamed and woke
her up. She told me she had dreamed that I had told her that
the key of the door from the kitchen into the scullery would open the
back door. Now altho this proved to be quite true I was quite
unaware of it, and the keys were apparently quite unlike—the
kitchen key being a little short one and the back door a long one.
So here as in ( 1 ) she seems to have in some way received knowledge
about the keys and wrongly attributed it to my information.
I am afraid I have made a very long letter about a small matter.
But I think that (1), (2) and (3) are really good cases of telepathy
—because I would always be thinking about my wife when hiding
the keys, and there has always been very close mental intimacy
between us."
Mr Besterman put a series of questions to Mr Hansard in regard
to the following points : (1) Was it at all possible for Mrs Hansard
to have seen or to have heard him hiding the keys ? (2) Could he
have unconsciously given the information by talking in his sleep ?
(3) What were the dates of the incidents described and the ad-
dresses where they occurred ? Mr Hansard very kindly answered
these questions in letters dated 18 and 23 March and 10 and 26 April,
from which the following extracts are taken :
" As the object of hiding the keys was to prevent any chance of
my wife finding them I always took the greatest care, hiding them
after she had gone to the bedroom, and collecting them in the
July 1934 Telepathy and Sleep-walking 267
morning before she got up. I can say positively that in none of
the cases described could she have possibly obtained knowledge
of the hiding places in the normal way."
" The possibility of my wife's hearing where I hid the keys was
always in my mind when hiding them—of course it would have
been unconscious observation on her part because she was as anxious
as I was to be protected from the danger of her sleep-walking.
You will realise my anxiety when I tell you that once I found her
a good 200 yards from our house just where our private track
across the veldt joined one of the main roads into Nairobi—where
she might easily have been run down by a car, or even attacked
by wild animals ! (This was I believe on the '
porcupine quill
'
occasion.) I even had to go to the trouble of putting iron bars
on all the windows of at least three houses we lived in to prevent
the possibility of her getting thro them."
" Case (1). Keys under writing pad on table at X. When I hid
them my wife would either be in our bedroom A or anteroom B.
As I should have put them quite quietly under the pad even she
had been listening she could not have heard and as I always wore
slippers indoors and the floor was covered with matting she would
not have even guessed what part of the room I was in.
2(18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July ii»3-t
VERANDAH
LIVING ROOM
B
A
" Cases 2 and 3. These were both in the same Bungalow, different
to No. 1 case. There was a recess in the Living Room and a shelf
ran along it. The brass pot with the porcupine quills being at
X on this shelf. Our bedroom would be either A or B (I can't
remember which, because we changed from A to B at some time).
My wife would always have been in bedroom or bathroom, and
I would certainly not have put them into the pot noisily, though
I doubt if she could have heard even if intently listening. In the
other case the gramophone stood on a table at Y and the book-case
at Z : if we were using bedroom A it would certainly be near—but
I should slip the key on the top of a book in the case (it was open,
not doors to it) absolutely silently.
I can say confidently that in no case could she have heard me hide
the keys. I have given you all these details rather to show you that
my memory of the facts is quite precise and that I had at the time a
full perception of the possibility and risk of her brain recording the
position by unconsciously hearing my movements."
July 1934 Telepathy and Sleep-ivalleing 269
" You may rule out the possibility of my having given my wife
the knowledge of the hiding places of the keys by my talking in
my sleep—as I never do this.
I have no objection to your printing my letters in your Jour-
nal
"
" I regret that I cannot give address of the two bungalows in
Nairobi, as there can hardly be said to be '
addresses '
in the suburbs
of Nairobi (Postal addresses are personal '
Box Nos.' at the G.P.O.
where you collect your letters—and houses generally speaking
don't have names—the name of the occupier is generally put up
at the gate).
Experience No. 1 took place between March 1921 & March 1922
at a Bungalow which would be best described as '
Mrs Wynne's
Bungalow at Muthaiga "
(Muthaiga is one of the suburbs of
Nairobi).
Exp. Nos. 2 & 3 took place between the end of 1922 and the
end of 1925 at a Bungalow which can be described as '
one of Mr
Geo. Blower's Bungalows in Westlands near the junction of the
Salisbury Road with Sclaters (or Kabete) Road '.
No. 4. At our present address, between April & June 1931."
Mrs Hansard kindly added the following statement
:
" I have read my husband's account of my sleep-walking ex-
periences and it accords entirely with my recollection of the various
incidents recorded. (Signed) Meta K. Hansard."
This is clearly a case in which auditory hyperaesthesia cannot
positively be excluded. Yet, taking into account Mr Hansard's
consciousness of its possibility and the precautions he consequently
took, a telepathic explanation is at least equally possible. At any
rate, the case suggests an interesting line of investigation into
the possibility of inducing telepathic experiences in somnambulists.
The whole of the foregoing account was sent to Mr Hansard, who
commented as follows :
" I have read your draft carefully and
quite approve of it. . . . With regard to your comments re auditory
hyperaesthesia, this has been in my mind—for until recently
my wife's normal hearing was remarkably good—but apart from
my care that she should not by any chance hear me when hiding
the keys there remains her statement in Exp. 3 that she dreamt I
said, '
Mind you don't prick your fingers '.
I certainly never
used these words—but I also frequently thought of her pricking
her fingers if she tried to go to the pot with the porcupine quills,
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1934
and her statement of her dream startled me as something distinctly
'
uncanny ' ".
It only remains to thank Mr Hansard very cordially for the trouble
he so kindly took in recording these experiences and in answering
questions.
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiments in Precognition
Madam,—I am organising a series of experiments in elementary
Precognition (guessing a die before it is thrown, etc.) and am
anxious to secure the co-operation of any Members or Associates
who would be willing to take part in the work.
Preliminary experiments suggest that results of interest may be
obtained, but that for not-specially-gifted people nothing significant
is likely to emerge in less than some hundreds, or perhaps thousands,
of guesses. Two or three sets of a hundred or so trials, from a given
individual, are therefore unlikely to be useful and volunteers should
accordingly be prepared to continue their efforts over a period of
some weeks, working a set of 120 guesses either daily or as near this
as is practicable.
I shall be most grateful if those interested will write to me at
Calandstraat 64, Rotterdam.
I am, etc.,
Whately Carington.
REVIEW
J. W. Dunne, An Experiment with Time. Pp. 288. Faber and
Faber, Ltd. Price 5s. net.
The first edition of this book was reviewed by Mr S. G. Soal in the
Journal in 1927,1
and with regard to the main portions of the present
volume there remains little to add to what was then said. The
author introduces his subject by recounting some eight precognitive
dreams of a vivid and interesting kind which were experienced by
him at intervals and afterwards fulfilled in considerable detail.
These suggested to him the idea of experimenting with his ordinary
dreams, recording them at the moment of waking and carefully
x
See Journal, xxiv. 119.
July 1U34 Review 27]
watching subsequent events for the emergence of possible pre-
cognitive details ; and the next section of the book goes on to
describe these experiments and the successes which the author
claims to have attained with his own dreams and those of his friends.
Some thirteen examples of such successes are quoted, but they are
not corroborated or given with sufficient accuracy of detail to
constitute first class evidence. This fact is a disappointment to the
reader whose interest has been stimulated, and it is still more dis-
concerting to be told on pp. 58 and 91 that
Li
these records are not
evidence, or intended to be regarded as such". The value of the
book is thereby reduced and the author's position seriously weakened.
Mr Dunne's experiences led him to believe that precognition is an
element in all normal dreaming, and he wished to try a larger-scale
experiment in order to test this theory. With this in view he
approached the S.P.R., and after considerable correspondence a
series of experiments was carried out in 1932 in which 20 members
of the S.P.R. sent in a total of 265 dreams to be analysed for pre-
cognition. 1
These experiments are not mentioned in the author's
book as the result was disappointing, only two dreams showing
evidence of what was sought for. Mr Dunne then suggested that
younger subjects should be tried, and an experiment was jointly
organised by himself and the S.P.R. in which 22 Oxford under-
graduates acted as the subjects. Their dreams, noted and examined
in accordance with careful instructions, were forwarded to the
S.P.R. by Mr H. H. Price, Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford, and
Lecturer in Philosophy. Mr Dunne added to these cases 17 dreams
of his own, and in his present book he deals with the Oxford results
and his own in one group. An independent report of these experi-
ments will be found in Proc. S.P.R. XLI, 195.
When considering the section of the book which deals with these
collective experiments, the reader should bear several points in
mind. In the first place the author has approached his problem
from a peculiar point of view. He has been mainly concerned to
prove that precognition is a " normal " and not a " supernormal
"
phenomenon, and he has dealt with the results in such a way as to
make this point appear. The treatment is in fact such that the
incautious reader may be easily misled. The contrast between
" supernormal " and " normal " would seem to be in point of fact
more verbal than real. Most thinking people now recognise that
the faculties of sensitives differ from those of ordinary people in
degree rather than in kind, so that " supernormal " would seem to
mean no more than " uncommon ". But Mr Dunne regards the
difference as vital, and this view colours his attitude towards the
whole subject.
1
See Proceedings, sli. 18(3.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1934
Secondly, the author believes, in pursuance of this view, that
dream-incidents must be drawn about equally from actual past and
future events, and his table of results on p. 280 is drawn up solely
with a view to demonstrating this theory, some of the dreams being
selected because they refer to past events alone. Now the question
of the correspondence of dreams with past events opens a difficult
problem. Numbers of dreams are undoubtedly based on 'memories
of past events, but it is a question whether or not there is a class of
dreams which reach directly back to past events themselves. If there
is, this class alone would be the genuine counterpart of precognitive
dreams, and until this difficult point has been cleared up, figures on
the subject are not much use.
A third point is that these experiments do not only test the pre-
cognitive faculties of the subjects but test their power of capturing
their dreams and noting correspondences at the same time. If the
latter powers are weak, they may mask cases of genuine pre-
cognition.
Again, whether mediocre cases should be put down to precognition
or to chance is a matter of personal judgment, and this is a very
variable quantity. Hence the final figures can only be regarded as
a rough guide. Unfortunately many people are unduly impressed
by statistical tables merely on account of their business-like air.
The author gives a rule for making such judgments which seems to
be quite a fair one. Suppose the waking event in question had
occurred before the dream instead of after it ; would you then have
linked the dream causally with the event ? If so, it must be counted
as precognitive : a priori ideas about causality must not be allowed
to influence the judgment.
At the end of the book Mr Dunne summarises the Oxford group
experiments together with his own, the experiments in all com-
prising 165 records, 148 of which were sent in by 22 Oxford under-
graduates and 17 by the author himself. His statistical summary of
these on p. 280 is most peculiar and misleading. He has given
descriptions of 48 of the dreams, but in tabulating the results he has
ignored 16 of the participating subjects altogether and has quoted
the total of the dreams as 88 provided by the remaining 7 subjects.
From this total of 88 he has taken 34, 14 of which he classifies as
referring to the past and 20 to the future. This arbitrary mode of
procedure is designed to show that the successful dreams contain
references to past and future events in more or less equal proportions,
and hence to vindicate his theory about the content of dreams. But
the difficulty of dealing with dreams referring to the past has already
been mentioned, and with regard to the 20 which refer to the future,
it is evident that if we use these results to estimate what proportion
of the total contain precognition we shall be seriously misled. They
July 1934 Review 273
must be referred to the total of 165, and not to the author's arbitrary
total of 88. The percentage of precognitive dreams is then about
12 per cent as against 22.7 per cent according to the author's
figures. This lack of scientific accuracy is a characteristic feature of
the whole book.
Since the author attaches great importance to his theory of pre-
cognition it is necessary to mention it here. Mr Soal in his review
of the earlier edition has pointed out a flaw in the geometrical
scheme ; but the theory appears also to rest on a radical mis-
conception of a philosophical kind. The author adopts from Physics
the conception of a four-dimensional Space-time continuum, and his
whole theory is based upon the assumption that a human observer
is in some way able to travel in a literal sense along the fourth or
Time-dimension. Now this travelling is Space-travelling, for the
author makes it literally a motion ; so that the question arises as to
what it is which travels and gives rise to the appearance of a flux of
temporal events. In his diagrams the author makes his traveller a
plane or diaphragm which moves along the Time-dimension ; but
obviously this moving plane must be related in some way to the
observer's consciousness, since it is to consciousness that events
appear as a flux ; and it is the nature of this relationship which is the
crux of the whole theory.
Anything which can travel in Space must necessarily be capable
of standing in spatial relations and of changing these relations ; but
the observer's perceptual consciousness does not fulfil these con-
ditions. It cannot stand in spatial relation to anything. Faced
with this difficulty, the author has fallen into dire confusion. He
has first confused the observer's consciousness with his " field of
presentation ", and has then gone on to state that the two together
are spatially coincident with the observer's brain !
" According to
the theory of psychoneural parallelism ", he says, " it [the '
field of
presentation '] occupies the same spatial position as does that
portion of the observer's cerebrum which is in the state of apparent
activity associated with the production of observable psychical
phenomena " (p. 163). By " field of presentation " Mr Dunne
obviously means here what is known in philosophy as a " sense-
field ". Now the relation of extended sense-data and of sense-fields
to physical space is a difficult point in the theory of Perception,
which cannot be entered into here : but it must be abundantly
evident that the sense-field belonging to a sentient cannot be
spatially coincident with his own brain ! And the theory would
seem to collapse on this initial confusion.
In its later stages the theory enriches the universe with Time-
dimension after Time-dimension, each of which, as soon as it is
added, turns into a dimension of Space. Along these the indefati-
274: Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1934
gable " observer " pursues his way, at each stage demanding a new
Time to travel in. In the end, the external world becomes an
infinitely complicated geometrical regress with the problem of Time
as much unsolved at the end as it was at the beginning.
Apart however from the theory, students of psychical research
should be glad to find someone ready to spend time and energy on a
subject so generally neglected, yet one which is unescapable if we
are to attain either a thorough understanding of this world or a
rational conception of another.
G. N. W. Tyrrell.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is r
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 508.—Vol. XXVIII. October 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER AT
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
At the corner of Kingstvay and High Holborn
Entrance in Newton Street
ON
WEDNESDAY, 24 OCTOBER 1Q34, at 6.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"MEMORY IN RELATION TO PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH "
WILL BE READ BY
Professor HANS DRIESCH
N.B.—Visitors will be admitted by invitation cards signed by a
Member or an Associate. Members and Associates will be adr>iitted
on signing their names at the door.
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobee1934
DE WALTER FRANKLIN PRINCE
We have learnt with very great regret of the death in August last of
Dr Walter Franklin Prince, Research Officer of the Boston Society
for Psychic Research and a former President of this Society. An
obituary will be published shortly in Proceedings.
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 27 June)
Nicol, J. Fraser, 2 Observatory Road, Edinburgh, 9.
Sassoon, Mrs Meyer, 6 Hamilton Place, London, W. 1.
Sprott, W. J. H., 29a Clumber Street, Nottingham.
{Elected 25 July)
Doxford, W. B. Dallas, 43 Swan Court, London, SW. 3.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 319th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 June, at 4.15 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Mr Gerald Heard,
Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter,
and Admiral The Hon A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr Theodore Bester-
man, Investigation Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 320th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 July, at 4.15 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Mr Gerald Heard,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr G. W. Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
One new Member was elected. His name and address are given
above.
October 1931 Donations 277
DONATIONS
{To the General Funds of the Society)
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. - - U 1 10
Mr Ernest S. Thomas - - - 10 0
CHANGES IN THE OFFICE
Earlier in the year Miss Newton informed the Council that, since
her illness, she found the office hours rather long. After discussion
with her and Miss Horsell the Council has arranged that Miss
Horsell, who has kindly consented to revert to full-time work, should
take over the whole of the routine work of the Office. Miss Newton
will remain Secretary of the Society, but will from the 1st of October
be on half-time.
As all our members know, Miss Newton has always devoted a
great deal of time and thought to personal interviews with them,
and she hopes that members will continue to consult her as to
matters of interest to the Society. In view, however, of the changed
arrangements, it is essential that any member wishing to consult her
should make an appointment in advance.
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON COUNCIL FOR PSYCHICAL
INVESTIGATION
We are informed that the National Laboratory for Psychical
Research has now been closed and all its apparatus, instruments,
library, etc., have been transferred to the newly instituted University
of London Council for Psychical Investigation. This body (which
has no official connection with London University) is " composed
of representatives of the various faculties and colleges ", including
amongst others Professor F. A. P. Aveling, Professor C. Burt,
Professor J. C. Flugel and Mr S. G. Soal. It will carry on its work
at the Rooms formerly occupied by the National Laboratory, 13d
Roland Gardens, London, S.W. 7, and Mr Harry Price, the former
Director of the National Laboratory, has been appointed Honorary
Secretary.
As our readers will be aware, Societies or Groups for the investi-
gation of psychical phenomena have at various times been in exist-
ence at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge as far back as the
formation of the Cambridge Branch in 1884.
a2
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1934
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 130th Private Meeting of the Society was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, on Wednesday, 27 Jane 1934, at 5.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., in the Chair.
Mr Ernest S. Thomas read a paper on " The Fire Walk ", which
will, it is hoped, be published later in the Proceedings.
The 131st Private Meeting of the Society was held at 31 Tavistock
Square on Wednesday, 25 July 1934, at 5.30 p.m., The Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas in the Chair.
A paper by Dr Carl Bruck on " Experiences in Reciprocal
Telepathy " was read by Mr W. H. Salter.
Mr Salter prefaced Dr Brack's Paper with a reminder that Dr
Brack, who practised as a Doctor in Berlin, had in 1922-1923
carried out a series of experiments with a small group of percipients,
sometimes under hypnosis, sometimes not. The results of these
experiments had been recorded in a book (Experimentelle Telepathie)
published in 1925, and reviewed by Dr Schiller in Proceedings.
Later Dr Brack had conceived of the valuable idea of keeping a
diary of occurrences in his own household which seemed to him to
indicate the possible presence of some paragnostic element. The
occurrences were mostly correspondences of idea and expression
between himself and his housekeeper, a country-woman of no very
high education. The paper recorded thirty such correspondences,
many of which Dr Bruck frankly admitted were not far outside the
range of chance-coincidence. One of his points in fact was that some
factor in the external situation stimulated the exercise of telepathic
faculties, so that the resulting compound was not wholly fortuitous,
nor wholly telepathic. In the concluding section of the paper Dr
Brack lent the weight of his opinion against the belief in a corporeal
localisation of a parapsychical receiving or transmitting organ.
At both meetings an interesting discussion followed the paper.
OBITUARY
Arthur Prince Chattock, Emeritus Professor of Physics in the
University of Bristol, died on 1 July last in his 74th year. He
became an Associate of the Society in 1890, eight years after its
foundation, a Life Associate in 1898 and a Life Member in 1905.
His record as an experimental physicist has recently been outlined
in the columns of Nature, and a full account of his work on that
subject will shortly appear in an obituary notice in the Proceedings
of the Royal Society.
October 1934 Obituary 279
Suffice it to say here that his work was that of a real pioneer,
embracing important advances in electrical discharge phenomena,'
magnetism and the measurement of minute pressure differences.'
He was from the first interested in telepathy. It appeared to him
as a new mode of communication between observers, and as such a
phenomenon which was exciting whether propagation took place by
some type of electromagnetic wave falling directly under the realm
of physics, or whether it could be traced to an entirely different
agency. He formed one of a band of professional scientists, including
some physicists, who felt strongly that the difficulties of the work
or the possibilities of failure should not deter scientific men from
attempting to elucidate psychic phenomena.
After many tests he found, to his regret, that he himself did not
possess any special telepathic powers. But he stimulated a number
of his students to experiment with him on simple thought trans-
ference or the ouija board. One set of observations initiated in this
way by him is recorded in the Journal of the Society (Vol. VIII, p. 302,
1898) and one by Usher and Burt in the Annals of Psychical Science
Vol. VIII (1909), p. 561.
On several occasions in his earlier days when prejudice against
these phenomena was rife, he took up cudgels in public lectures on
behalf of the activities of the Society, and he also showed a practical
interest m its work by frequent donations to the general fund.
He will be remembered by a generation of students as a brilliant
teacher, and by all who knew him as a man who invariably placed
the interests of others before his own.
Though his extreme modesty and retirement led him to shun
formal scientific and social gatherings, admission to an inner circle
revealed a rare and engaging personality of simple tastes, wide
culture and great liberality of thought.
He was a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers a
Doctor of Science of the University of Bristol honoris causa, and a
.bellow of the Royal Society. He was married in 1906, and his wife
survives him.
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1934
REPORT OF A PICTURE-TEST OBTAINED ON
21 SEPTEMBER 1933
By the Rev. W. S. Irving
Introductory Note
:
In order that chance coincidence in picture-tests might as far as
possible be eliminated, it was suggested to me by Mrs Salter that I
should ask my Communicator if she would try to always get her
picture-tests from the same newspaper, instead of from many various
sources.
On 18 September 1933, therefore, during the Personal Control, I
told Dora of this suggestion, and asked her to try always to get tests
from next day's London Evening News, to eliminate chance. Dora
replied, " Yes, dear, but I have taken them from that ". This would
seem to be true as regards several of her tests. " Stick to the one,"
I replied, and she said that she would try to do so. In view of the
fact that the following tests, which were given three days later, were
not from the London Evening News, but were found in the Daily
Mail, I must mention, that, when in town, I generally see three daily
papers, the Daily Express, the Daily Mail, and the London Evening
News. The two latter, I buy regularly.
Extractfrom a sitting with Mrs Leonard on Thursday, 21 Septem-
ber 1933, about 11 a.m. Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Re-
corder : Miss E. M. Horsell.
[Feda]. [1] . . . Now then, Mr
Bill, she wanting to go on to the
other things, now, you see, be-
cause she's got a lot to think
out carefully and quietly—care-
fully and quietly. That's right.
(Right). You asked me to do
something, last sitting, with re-
gard to the [here a voice said,
Pictures] pictures. Well, I'm
doing that. (Good) Em—Lying
on the ground—lying on the
ground ? Dora's showing me a
picture, Mr Bill, of someone lying
on the ground—lying on the
ground, a figure lying on the
ground.
[2] A human figure with her
knees rather sticking up, you
[1] In the back page of the
Daily Mail for Priday, 22 Sep-
tember 1933 (the day after the
sitting), there were the following
pictures and words. As this
page is mainly devoted to pic-
tures, and Dora has not con-
tented herself with describing
one picture only, but has given
points from what she calls " the
frame of the picture," I am in-
dicating the position of some of
the tests clockwise. Almost in
the centre of the page is a picture
approximately 7 inches by 6§
inches, including wording, of a
steer jumping over a figure lying
on the ground.
[2] The human figure is a man,
but his baggy cowboy's trousers
October 1934 Report of a Picture-Test 281
see ? Look. As if her knees is
pointing up a bit, but the body
seems to be lying rather flat.
[3] But the head not quite
straight, turned a little at the
neck—twisted a little.
[4] Close to this form is a tree.
Dora thinks it's a fruit-tree.
She got the impression of fruit
—
of fruit. She says, I didn't see it.
I got the impression of fruit, and
a tree.
[5] I also got the feeling that
in the picture there's something
representing—She says, I've got
to put it this way : liquid. I
don't know if a lake or water. I
didn't see that. The impression
was liquid ;
might be river,
might be sea—but liquid.
[6] There's also something
—
look ! [Feda draws in the air] :
Looking like an arch or bridge-
way, do you see, an arch or
bridgeway. That's right, Mr
Bill, an arch or bridge-way.
[7] Flags or signs ? Mr Bill
!
You know what signs are, don't
you, people hang out—like flags ?
Well ! I've felt like a sign flying,
or a flag flying. Dora says, It
was impossible for me to tell
what it was—a sign, or flag.
She says, A sign in the shape of a
flag."' It's all in the same place,
Mr Bill, it's all in the same place.
She says, I don't know whether
you know, but when I get a test
of this kind, it is as if I sense a
look as much, if not more, like a
skirt. His body is flat on the
ground, but both knees are up
in the air pointing towards 10
o'clock.
[3] Correct. Though the body
is flat, the head is turned some-
what to the right.
[4] 2|- inches from the figure,
towards 8 o'clock, is the lower
part of the trunk of a tree,
standing erect. Another similar
part of a tree is below, and a
larger part further to the left.
It is part of an advertisement
for " Cherry Blossom " the words
of which are in large letters, at
6.30 approximately.
[5] Eight inches from the test-
picture, towards 2 o'clock, is the
word " Liquid " in capital let-
ters. The word is 1-| inches, by
approx. ^ inches.
[6] Immediately over the
figure lying on the ground is the
curved arch of the steer's back,
as it jumps over him. It is
6 inches in length. Underneath
the picture are the words :
-1
Heard of the cow that jumped
over the moon 1 . . .
"
[7] Nearly the whole of the
upper part of this picture page is
taken up by a picture of the
launch of the new motor-lifeboat
at Walmer. This picture is 13i
inches by 7 inches. The lifeboat
is gaily decorated with " flags."
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October v.r.'A
section of a book or paper—
a
section, do you see ? I may give
you something that belongs not
only—not only to what you
would call the picture itself, but
I might pick up a word or words
touching, or very closely con-
nected with the picture.
[8] Well ! This is what I
caught. I'll call them " Nautical
allusions ". Do you know what
those are—nautical allusions ?
[9] And prophecy. Will you
put it that way, she says. Naut-
ical allusions, and a prophecy—
a
prophecy. I said to myself, This
is something to do with the sea,
or waves on the sea—nautical
things, and nautical things, Mr
Bill. Wait a bit, Dora, wait a
bit ! And yet there was some-
thing in it that was like a fore-
cast. No ! She says, Put it this
way—that could and would most
probably happen. Those words
are either a part—either a part of
the picture, or they're touching
the picture. Yes. That's right.
Yes. That's right. Yes.
[10] Mr Bill ! She was won-
dering whether she could some-
times locate what surrounded
the picture, you see, whether she
could find out, you see, what
surrounded, or what touched the
picture. You might say, What
forms the frame of the picture—
the frame. Yes ! That's right
!
Yes ! That is what she calls it.
(Yes, I understand). That per-
haps would ensure you knowing
that you've got the right one,
you see ? (Very good idea). Yes,
that what she thinks ! Well
!
Do you think you've got all that
just as she said it 1 (Yes). . . .
[8] Eight inches above the
test-picture, towards 11 o'clock,
are the words, " Launch Thrill
when Lifeboat Fouls Slipway."
The words are in capital letters
f inch deep.
[9] Immediately above the
arch of the steer's back in the
test picture, are the following
words, concerning the launch of
the lifeboat : ... When the
vessel was going down to the
water, it fouled the slipway and
came to rest in the shingle with
no more serious consequences
than the scattering of the crowd.
—Daily Mail photograph.
[10] In this case it would seem
that four points given are con-
cerned with the picture itself,
and five points with the " frame."
OUTLINE SKETCH OF THE PAGE OF THE " DAILY MAIL "^REFERRED
TO IN THIS REPORT
LAUNCH THRILL
WHEN LIFEBOAT
FOULS SLIPWAY
CHERRY BLOSSOM
BOOT POLISH
LIQUID LINO
The wording of these two paragraphs is as follows :
* Many hands making light of hard work yesterday after spectators at the
launching of the new motor- lifeboat Charles Dibdin, at Walmer, had re-
covered from a thrill. When the vessel was going down to the water it
fouled the slipway and came to rest in the shingle with no more serious
consequences than the scattering of the crowd.—Daily Mail photograph.
Heard of the cow that jumped over the moon ? Here's the steer that be-
haved in the very same way in regard to his would-be rider, and thrilled
50,000 people watching the Oklahoma Stampede at Pasadena.
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1934
AN EXPERIMENTAL TEST TO DETERMINE THE VALUE OF
THE ABOVE RECORD AS EVIDENCE OF PRECOGNITION
By Mrs W. H. Salter
The fact that the relevant pictures were not found in the Evening
News, as had been suggested, but in the Daily Mail, one of three
papers Mr Irving sees when in London, obviously increases the
opportunity for chance-coincidence, and it seemed to me desirable
to form some kind of estimate of what results chance was likely to
give. Mr Irving procured for me twelve issues of the Daily Mail
from 19 October to 1 November inclusive. The picture page at the
back of each of these (afterwards called the experimental pages) have
been carefully compared with the statements at the sitting and with
the test-page. I give below the conclusions I should draw from this
comparison.
(1 )
By far the best single point given at the sitting is the reference
to a figure lying down on the ground with the knees up and the head
twisted a little. This was accurately and conspicuously fulfilled on
the test-page, the only mistake made being as to the sex of the
figure, which, as Mr Irving points out, is not immediately obvious
(see sketch plan). I found nothing in any way corresponding to this
on any of the experimental pages.
(2) The reference to a fruit-tree, given also as " fruit " and " a
tree " is better fulfilled on the test-page than elsewhere, for there we
have an actual drawing of a tree coupled with the words " cherry-
blossom " which suggest a fruit-tree. On the back page of the issue
of 28 October there was another advertisement of Cherry Blossom
Boot-Polish, but it included no drawing of a tree ; several issues had
pictures which included trees and advertisements which included
references to fruit, but nowhere else were these two things conjoined.
(3) The reference to liquid is well-fulfilled on the test-page, but
unfortunately Feda weakened this point by suggesting that verifica-
tion might be found in some reference to water, " lake ", " river ",
or " sea ". In no fewer than ten of the twelve experimental pages I
found something that could be described as a reference to liquid in
the wide sense admitted by Feda. I conclude therefore that no
evidential value attaches to this point.
(4)
" Nautical allusions " and " the sea " are also of frequent
occurrence. I found them on eight of the twelve experimental pages.
But in only one of these eight cases was the picture coupled with
anything that could be regarded as a forecast, something that
" could or would most probably happen ". It is therefore to these
words only that any evidential value can be given in this part of the
test.
October 1934 An Experimental Test 285
(5) The allusion to an arch is well-furnished on the test-page (see
sketch plan), but here again Feda weakened her case by adding the
words " or bridge-way ". Only one of the experimental pages has
an arch corresponding in shape to the curve described by Feda, but
two others have bridge-ways.
(6) The reference to flags is well fulfilled on the test-page, but
flags, partly for their decorative value, and partly on account of
their connexion with ships appear to be a fairly frequent subject of
newspaper pictures. I found them on three of the twelve experi-
mental pages.
For purposes of comparison I adopted a system of marking based
on what might be called the scarcity-value of the various statements
made at the sitting, as follows :
Some one lying down - - 5
Knees up------ -2
Fruit-tree - -4
Arch or bridge-way - -4
Flags ------ . 3
Consequences ------- 3
It should be clearly understood that these marks are only a rough
estimate ; for accurate results one would need to work with a much
larger amount of material.
Total score for sitting : 5x2 x4x4x3 x3 = 1440.
I do not think it necessary to give in detail the marks obtained
by the experimental pages ; the only result running into double
figures was obtained on 25 October, namely 24. There is, therefore,
a prima facie case for supposing that the relation between the state-
ments made at the sitting of 21 September 1933 and the illustration
appearing on the back page of the Daily Mail is due to something
more than chance.
We also obtained through the courtesy of the Editorial Depart-
ment of the Daily Mail a statement as to the time of day on 21 Sep-
tember 1933 when the various items appearing on the picture page
of 22 September were chosen. It appears from this statement that
the photograph of the launching of the lifeboat was taken at about
3.15 p.m. ;
the final selection of the various relevant items appear-
ing on the page was made at various times between 6 and 7.30
p.m. The relevant part of Mr. Irving's sitting, as appears from his
record, took place between 11 and 11.30 a.m. on 21 September 1933.
[We hope shortly to print two more tests of the same type. Hon.
Ed.]
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October it*34
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiments in Precognition
Madam.— A number of Members volunteered to help in the experi-
ments referred to in my letter appearing in the July Journal (p. 270),
and the outcome so far is distinctly encouraging. The present indi-
cations, however, are to the effect that a greater number of partici-
pants, rather than intensive work by individuals, will be necessary
in order to obtain significant results.
I accordingly venture to repeat my appeal for volunteers, with
the encouragement that a somewhat smaller number of trials will be
needed in each case than was at first expected.
My address is, Calandstraat 64, Rotterdam, Holland.
I am, etc.,
Whately Carington.
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities
Madam,—In my recent paper on this subject (Proc. S.P.R. Part 136)
I adopted the view (e.g., in sections 4 and 33) that the finding of
significant differences as regards reaction times or reproduction test
between two personalities was to be taken as positive evidence of
their not possessing a common subconscious and, therefore, of their
" autonomy ".
This view was t ased partly on the stress laid by Jung and others
on the importance of the part played by unconscious factors in
determining these reactions, and partly on the work of Prince and
Peterson with the psychogalvanic reflex in the BCA case, taken in
conjunction with the known correlation between reflex and reaction
time in certain respects.
A recent experiment by MM. Besterman and Gatty shows, how-
ever, that this conclusion is almost certainly erroneous. Mr Gatty
acted as subject and, by merely adopting two different " orienta-
tions " of mind alternately (and without, of course, any question of
intervention ab extra arising) found he could produce differences
between the two states, as regards both reaction times and repro-
duction, of the same order as those I found in the analysis of Mrs
Garrett and Uvani and of the Leonard-Feda-Thomas group. Full
details will be reported in due course.
The result of this experiment does not, of course, account for the
very remarkable phenomenon of the apparent " centrality " or
" dominance " of John, nor does it destroy any claim to autonomy
that might be advanced on other grounds, as would be the case, I
think, if I had found similarities where I actually found differences.
October 1934 Gorresjpo n dence 287
But it does make it illegitimate to argue that the personalities con-
cerned must be autonomous because they give significantly different
sets of reaction times or reproductions.
I am, etc.,
Whately Carington.
Intensive Investigation of Telepathy
Madame,—I have just read Professor Dodds' article in the May
issue of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., a superbly concise piece of
argument which, I venture to think, demolishes the case for spiri-
tualism so far as is humanly possible. May I suggest that it leaves
the S.P.R. with the duty now of conducting an intensive investiga-
tion of telepathy ? It may be that the telepathic explanation of
mediumistic communications will some day prove to be as scientifi-
cally groundless a hypothesis as spiritualism : I don't think so,
because I cannot see the alternative, though, just possibly, the
notion of hyper-aesthesia (curiously exemplified by Professor
Gilbert Murray's supposed inability to reveal a subject suggested to
him by people in another room unless they at least whisper it to each
other) may be a clue. In any case, while I should not want the
S.P.R. to abandon all work in other directions, I do definitely hope
that it will now turn its main attention to investigating the tele-
pathic hypothesis and the phenomena which appear to be related
to this.
Yours.
C. E. Bechhofer Roberts.
[Most of our readers, though they may not concur in Mr Bechhofer
Roberts' conclusion that the case for spiritualism is humanly
speaking demolished, will probably agree with him as to the im-
portance of studying telepathy.
We may, however, remind Mr Roberts that ever since its founda-
tion the S.P.R. has constantly pursued this line of enquiry, and it is
possibly easier to suggest that an " intensive investigation " is
desirable than to carry one out ! But if Mr Bechhofer Roberts, or
any other of our Members, has suggestions to make, we will gladly
consider them. Hon. Ed.]
Belief in Survival
Madam,—Professor Dodds' most able, interesting, and valuable
paper (Proc. Part 135) entitled " Why I do not believe in Survival
"
has not affected my own belief in it, mainly because his treatment of
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1934
the cross-correspondence evidence is not only (admittedly) super-
ficial, but (unintentionally) misleading : the strong points are not
given. Further, some very significant elements of evidence pointing
to survival appeared in experiments and episodes shortly afterwards,
and these Professor Dodds does not consider.
The chipping of a large collection of flints, collected from a sea-
shore, might be dismissed by a geologist as the result of purely
natural operations—the pounding and battering they had undergone
from rocks and pebbles under wave action. A general but most
rational and straightforward explanation. Yet a connoisseur might
pick out a small percentage of them which showed such strong
evidence of purpose and intelligence in the chipping as to point to
their being artifacts, putting the geologist's generalisation out of
court.
Professor Pigou truly in 1909 pointed out the complementariness
in the Verrall experiment (p. 168). But it was an experiment, inten-
tionally and consciously tried, as Sir Oliver Lodge pointed out at the
time. This applies also to the Murray incident mentioned.
Such a note, in a script, as " seek elsewhere for this "
(p. 168),
seems to show a consciousness of the cross-correspondence idea.
If the scribe was ignorant of the scheme we must posit an experi-
ment deliberately planned if not " consciously " carried out by Mrs
Verrall's subconsciousness. Mrs Holland's remarkable " There
should be ... if possible seven—the lady and the learned lady
and the maiden of the crystal and the scribe and the professed scribe
—and the two newcomers ..." would be a further example of this
operation, and Mrs Willett's dramatic " who selects friend Pidding-
ton . . . who selects ?
" another.
Then there is the Lethe incident with its suggestion, deliberately
made, that Mr Dorr was mistaken in thinking that the communi-
cator was unaware of the obvious connotation of " Lethe ".
Clearly on this hypothesis the subconsciousness is capable de tout,
and all will agree that, if it is well-founded, Jeremiah spoke truer
than he knew when he said " the heart is deceitful above all things
and desperately wicked : who can know it ".
Yours, etc.,
Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford. Ernest S. Thomas.
The Word Association Test in the Garrett-Uvani Mediumship
Madam,—Jf I may be permitted, I should like to make a comment
or two on Mr Whately Carington's review of Bulletin I (the Garrett-
Uvani mediumship) of the American Psychical Institute—which
review appeared in the Proceedings of recent date.
October 1934 Correspondence 289
My first is by way of correction—for, although I gave full credit
in the report to rny wife, Marie Sweet Carrington, your reviewer does
not do so. Since the experimentation, as well as the preparation of
the report, was undertaken and completed by us jointly, I feel that
in all fairness she should share in whatever " credit " is granted—
and I have written this letter primarily to correct this oversight.
Then I should like to suggest that, while the review as a whole
was most fairly and generously handled, there seems in our opinion
to have been too little attention given and emphasis placed upon
the " third entity " portion of the experiments—which in the last
analysis turned out to be the most striking of all the material.
If carried to sufficient lengths, this procedure would seem to be
a test which would solve the question of multiple personality vs.
spirit control—and be, therefore, a very significant and profitable
field of enquiry.
Mr Carington seems to have neglected to realize that our Report
was an original attempt, and therefore naturally subject to improve-
ments in method, technique, etc., in subsequent work along these
lines ; nor does he seem to have followed out this " third entity
"
line of attack in his late experiments.
It is quite certain that two or more mediums could not possibly
have the same series of secondary or multiple personalities, and it
would seem that this test would be the logical step in determining
the origin of these so-called entities.
This association-word method may also be employed, we believe,
in securing proper names, often so difficult to obtain otherwise.
For instance, in some recent tests, a Christian name was given the
alleged communicator, and the correct surname given as a reaction
word, and vice versa. These names were of course quite unknown
to the medium. In another instance, the name of a person was given
as the stimulus word, and the reaction word was the name of a town
where this person formerly resided (in life). This type of material
seems very striking, and capable of being elicited easily by this
method.
May we hope that this procedure will be pursued by those having
the opportunity to experiment along these lines ? I conclude by
thanking Mr Whately Carington for his painstaking and judicial
review of our Report.
Sincerely yours,
Hereward Carrington.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 193
1
REVIEWS
Theodore Besterman, Mrs Annie Besant, A Modern Prophet.
Kegan Paul. Price 10s. 6d.
Mr Besterman has been fortunate in his subject, and he has done
full justice to it. The brilliance of Mrs Besant's intellect, superficial
though it may have been compared with that of really great thinkers,
her sincerity and courage, the tempestuous ardour of her activity,
her unselfish devotion to the causes which she espoused, her great
gift of eloquence and, beyond all, her almost miraculous capacity for
work, all these alone would have made her an interesting and out-
standing figure. But it is not these characteristics, admirable
though they are, which render her so entrancing a subject for the
biographer. It is rather the spectacular nature of the numerous
changes in her mental outlook, the completeness of these changes,
for Mrs Besant was what is described in the vernacular as a " whole
hogger ", and the psychological causes of them which Mr Besterman
acutely lays bare.
1
1'
I iii.iv use ;i n, nit ical metaphor. Mrs Besanl appears to me as a
vessel which is heavily over canvased for her draught and weight of
ballast. She will " sail like a train ", but she cannot hold her course.
She is too much for even the most skilful helmsman and some of her
helmsmen were not over skilful.
Under the guidance of Charles Bradlaugh her work as a social
reformer was, to continue the metaphor, an example of good plain
sailing on a well laid course. Though she might have attained to
honour and a certain recognition among a limited circle had she held
this course, it would not have made her the world-known figure
which she eventually became.
But Bradlaugh could not hold her ; a change of wind put her about
and she heads for socialism. The Pabians take the helm, but again
she is too much for them.
Another shift in the wind and off she goes with every sail drawing,
reeling off the knots towards Theosophy.
It is perhaps too much to say that Mme Blavatsky or Leadbeater
ever took the helm, though they undoubtedly exercised a great
influence over her. I fancy that in this stage of her career she was
to a great extent her own pilot, and the course she steered was
largely her own devising.
As Mr Besterman points out, though she claimed to be guided by
cold reason she was actually swayed by every emotion.
Her life exhibits several examples of inconsistency towards the
guiding principles which she adopted, yet one cannot doubt her
integrity of purpose in even the most glaring of these, viz. her
obstinate espousal of Mr Leadbeater's cause. Her emotions entirely
overpowered her reason.
OCTOBEK 11)34 Reviews 291
Mr Besterman remarks on her utter self-confidence. " She always
knew ", and for one who always knows anything is possible and
anything is right. It is, however, Mr Besterrnan's account of her
connection with, and work for the Theosophical Society which will
be of special interest for readers of the Journal. Though founded
by Mme Blavatsky and acknowledging her as a sort of high priest,
Theosophy is to a great extent the work of Mrs Besant. It could
hardly have had even the moderate amount of success which it has
achieved had it not been for her energy and inspiration—in fact I
doubt whether it would have continued long in existence at all.
Mr Besterman is most commendably moderate in his references to
the alleged occult phenomena which bulk so largely in Theosophy.
He accepts, as will, I imagine, all S.P.R. readers, Dr Hodgson's
hostile report on Mme Blavatsky and her performances.
He gives an excellent, if highly condensed, account of the theo-
sophical teachings and a brief resume of the history of the " ego
"
which became Annie Besant from the time when it animated the
mineral kingdom on " the fourth globe of the first round ". a history,
by the way, which we have to take entirely on trust.
One is tempted to wonder how so complicated and fantastic a
system of cosmology, backed by no evidence but even more fantastic
stories, can be accepted by so many educated people, yet, as Mr
Besterman says, " A view held sincerely and with conviction by Mrs
Besant about herself and embodied in a series of volumes, while it-
need not necessarily be accepted, does at least deserve to be fully
described in a biography of her ".
I think that there is no reasonable doubt that Mrs Besant did
undergo supernormal psychical experiences of some sort, but her
unquestioning acceptance of them at their most superficial face
value, her utter disregard of any rules of evidence or canons of
criticism, is sufficient completely to discount their value in the eyes
of any accustomed to the more scientific outlook of psychical
research.
Theosophy, Mr Besterman says, is authoritarian : you must take it
or leave it ; that some highly intelligent persons have taken it is,
perhaps, a minor psychological puzzle. There is, however, a basis
of reputable philosophy behind it all, derived for the most part from
the Vedantic and Buddhistic systems, and I think that it is this
philosophy which has attracted many thoughtful people to study it.
The fact that the Theosophical Society continues to gain new
adherents while at the same time it loses an almost equal number of
older members, rather tends to support this view.
Whether it will continue to flourish , if so stormy a mode of exist-
ence can be described as flourishing, now that Mrs Besant is no
longer here to infuse into it her energy and enthusiasm, is a matter
which time alone can show.
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1934
Whether a new prophet will arise to continue her work or whether
the whole structure collapses, Mrs Annie Besant will remain as an
outstanding and remarkable figure in the history of modern thought
;
and Mr Besterman has done good service by his most interesting and
judicial record of her life and work, a record which will appeal not
only to the student of psychical research but also to the general
reading public. H. F. 8.
Maurice Barbanell, The Trumpet Shall Sound. (Rider.) 3s. 6d.
J. V. H., Death's Door Ajar. (Rider.) 5s.
Reginald Hegy, A Witness Through the Centuries. (Rider.) 5s.
Wallis Mansford, Bridging Two Worlds. (Rider.) 5s.
Unfortunately the only interest these four books from Rider can
possibly have for students of either psychical research or spiritual-
ism, lies in the fact that each of them is an excellent example of the
way not to write about either of these subjects.
All are uncritical and disconnected, and the first three contain
descriptions of physical and direct voice phenomena, with very
little attempt to describe the conditions under which they took place,
or at times to give even the number, let alone the names, of those
who were present.
In The Trumpet Shall Sound, Mr Maurice Barbanell describes
direct voice sittings with Mrs Estelle Roberts, at which numerous
well-known people such as Sir Henry Segrave, Edgar Wallace, Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, and others, purported to speak. Communi-
cator's names at these sittings seem to be announced in the direct
voice with a clearness and decision which is indeed rare. It seems,
however, that many of those who took part in the seances had
private sittings with Mrs Roberts first.
Death's Door Ajar, by J. V. H., and A Witness Through the
Centuries, by Reginald Hegy, are both about spiritualism in South
Africa.
The quality of the former can perhaps best be illustrated by a
quotation from page 67. " Promiscuous seances seem to be the
happy hunting-ground of playful spirits who delight in impersona-
tions, in masquerades, and in all kinds of deceptions. They can
read the secret thoughts of sitters as easily as an open book, and they
use this clandestine knowledge to pretend they are relatives or
friends, giving '
proofs '
which are absolutely convincing."
Much of A Witness Through the Centuries consists of descriptions
of life after death, and messages containing a great deal of what
Americans call " uplift ", said to emanate from the sitters' angel
guide " John ".
October 1934 Revie ws 293
Mr. Wallis Mansford, author of Bridging Two Worlds, believes that
he holds spirit communion with the two deceased poets. Rupert
Brooke and James Elroy Flecker, but his book contains little or no
evidence (as the word is understood by members of this Society)
that this is so.
If those who contemplate writing books about evidence for
survival would first read the records of Mr Drayton Thomas, pub-
lished in our Proceedings, and Miss Nea Walker's book, The Bridge,
the standard of publications of this type would without doubt be
much improved. S. R. W. Wilson.
Malcolm Grant, A New Argument for God and Survival, and a
Solution to the Problem of Supernatural Events. Pp. 450.
Faber and Faber. Price 12s. 6d. net.
It is difficult to summarise shortly the argument which Mr Grant,
a member of the Society, elaborates in this book, but the main points
appear to be : that a large number of the phenomena of Psychical
Research, both mental and physical, are genuine : that these
phenomena are not only supernormal but supernatural, and accord-
ingly not reducible to any general laws or principles : that from
such supernatural events the existence of a single cause may be
inferred, which cause may be named God, and that this implies
survival.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Journal of the British Society of Dowsers, September 1933-June 1934.
The four numbers that have so far appeared of this new journal
testify to the wide interest in the problems of dowsing. Our know-
ledge of the processes by which the dowser obtains his knowledge
may be said to be in inverse ratio to the volume of the evidence that
he does in fact find water. It is therefore with some regret that we
observe the British Society of Dowsers more and more committing
themselves to a physical theory of dowsing, or to what they call
radiation-perception ". It cannot be too strongly urged that until
the rationale of dowsing is better understood it is highly desirable to
keep to a non-committal term like dowsing.
The articles contained in these four numbers are all quite brief
and elementary. The outstanding impression they leave is of far
too great a readiness uncritically to accept purely hearsay evidence.
It is important that dowsing should be systematically investigated,
and the British Society of Dowsers, under the able and energetic
direction of its President. Colonel A. H. Bell, is in a good position to
undertake such work. But only if it adheres to the critical methods of
scientific investigation is it likely to achieve results ofpermanent value.
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobkr 1934
The Hibbert Journal, July 1934.
Harold P. Cooke, Death, Dying and Survival. [Mr Cooke's
article is a further attempt to attract the philosopher's attention to
the "obvious" implications of his terminology. The present
attempt is directed to the words forming the title. Mr Cooke
suggests that there is no metaphysical problem of survival. All that
we are entitled to ask is " Shall I survive ? ", the accent being on
the " I ".]
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
May 1934.—Dr T. Glen Hamilton, Study of the Winnipeg Group
Mediumship in its Relation to the Dawn Teleplasms. [After a
survey of certain aspects of this mediumship, the writer concludes
that the materialisations are the outcome of the functioning of
several mediums simultaneously, that they are the result of work
done during successive sittings, and that the phenomena are intelli-
gently directed from some other level of existence]. —Do Psychical
Phenomena prove Survival ? [In this report of a debate between
Mr Bond and Dr S. U. Lawton, the former's affirmative statement
is given in full, the latter's negative contribution only in three frag-
ments, to which Mr Bond replies. This seems a somewhat unfair
way of reporting a debate].
June 1934.—F. B. Bond, The Inspiration of Glastonbury. [Part
VIII].—Dr Emilio Servado, The Psychic Mechanism of Telepathic
Hallucinations. [A theory following psychoanalytical lines].
—
Apparition of a Hand (Premonitory of a Death). [Anonymous and
uncorroborated].—Mme Dario Papa, Mediumship of Eusapia Palla-
dino. [This is a not uninteresting account of phenomena observed
by the writer in 1893, together with impressions of the medium].
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 509.—Vol. XXVIII. November 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting- of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 November 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"NORMAL AND SUPERNORMAL PERCEPTION'5
WILL BE READ BY
Mr G. N. W. Tyrrell
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the
door. Tea will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
THE INVESTIGATION OFFICER
On Mr Besterrnan's return from his American tour about the
beginning of October he tendered his resignation as an Officer of the
Society, on the ground that he wished to devote himself to other
work. The Council have accepted his resignation as from 8 April
1935.
The Council have appointed a Research Committee consisting of the
President, Mrs Salter, Mr Whately Carington, Mr Oliver Gatty,
Mr Gerald Heard and Dr T. W. Mitchell, to advise the Council as to
the future organisation of research and initiate and carry out such
research work as is practicable in the immediate future.
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected on 26 September 1934)
Lebrecht, Miss Lisa, 1 Cromwell Crescent, Kensington, London,
S.W. 5.
Nunn, Miss Margaret, 4 Cleveland Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.2.
Shine, J. B., Ph.D., Duke University, Durham, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
Eitson, F. A., 4 Bon-Accord Crescent, Aberdeen.
Strange, T. A., Pearcroft Road, Stonehouse, Glos.
STUDENT-ASSOCIATE
Mather, Leslie G., 15 Mitcham Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
(Elected on 1 November 1934)
Dhar, Bansi, Government Intermediate College, Fyzabad, U.P.,
India.
Crowther, Miss A. G., 64 Wembley Park Drive, Wembley Park,
Middx.
Gharagozlou, Mme. Naghi Khan, Khiaban Arbab Jamshid, Teheran,
Persia.
Gore, Miss Kathleen C, Peacock Hall, Little Cornard, Sudbury,
Suffolk.
Jyotirbhusan, S. L., Rangpur, North Bengal, India.
Maeky, Mrs, 64 Wembley Park Drive, Wembley Park, Middx.
Price, H. H., Trinity College, Oxford.
November 1934 Meetings of the Council 297
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 321st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 September 1934, at 4.15 p.m.,
The President in the Chair. There were also present : Mr Oliver
Gatty, Mr Gerald Heard, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, and Miss Nea Walker ;
also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members and one Student Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The 322nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 October, at 4 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : The Rt. Hon. The
Earl of Balfour, Professor C. D. Broad, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr
Gerald Heard, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence
J. Jones, Bart., Mr G. W. Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Dr F. C. S. Schiller,
Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, and Miss Nea Walker ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Council considered the situation arising out of Mr Besterman's
return from his American tour.
The 323rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 1 November, at 3 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett,
M.P., Professor C. D. Broad, Mr Gerald Heard, Lord Charles Hope,
Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F.
Saltmarsh, Mr S. G. Soal, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Council appointed a Research Committee (see announcement
elsewhere).
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
PRIVATE MEETING
The 132nd Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
26 September 1934, at 5.30 p.m.
The President read a paper on " The Response to a Broadcast
Talk on Precognition ". A discussion followed, in which the
following took part : Mrs Crunden, Mr Findlater, Dr Fraser-Harris,
Mr Hettinger, Miss F. C. Johnson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr
G. W. Lambert and Mr Tyrrell.
GENERAL MEETING
The 183rd General Meeting of the Society was held in the Council
Chamber at the Holborn Restaurant, High Holborn, W.C. 1, on
Wednesday, 24 October 1934, at 6.30 p.m., The President in the
Chair.
Dr Hans Driesch read a paper entitled " Memory in Relation to
Psychical Research ", which will, it is hoped, be published later in
Proceedings.
NOTICE
Copies of a little book compiled by Mrs Salter, called Evidence for
Telepathy, reviewed on page 311, may now be bought from the
Secretary, price 2s.
November 1934 Report of a Picture-Test 299
REPORT OF A PICTURE-TEST FROM NEXT DAY'S
EVENING NEWS
By the Rev. W. S. Irving
Introductory Note :
This is Dora's fourth attempt to give a series of picture-tests
from one of next day's newspapers—following upon Mrs Salter's
suggestion that she should be asked to do this. In this case, we
had asked her to take her tests from the Evening News. The request
was made on 23 January 1934.
Extract from a Sitting with Mrs Leonard on Tuesday, April 24, 1934.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Mr Theodore Besterman.
[Feda]. ... [1] Now, Mr Bill!
What you showing me ? A
lake, is it ? A lake ? A pool ?
I think it's a picture test she's
showing me, Mr Bill ! Look !
I think it must be a pool she's
showing me. I think I'd better
use the word " pool ". That's
what she showing me. You see,
I see like ripples—that what
she showing me. I see like
ripples, & something that looks
as if intended to be round-
shaped—like water. And, what's
that ? It isn't ! A long-shaped
thing, like a long pillow. Look !
I see a long-shaped thing, like
that shape, [Feda draws in the
air, and Sitter copies her actions
in his note-book] :
[1.] On Wednesday, April 25,
1934, the day after this Sitting,
I found, on the right hand
middle page of the Evening
News, a picture described as
'
A Home in London—In a
Lifeboat [sic] On a Park Lake.'
. . .
'
Nesting-place of a coot
on a lake at South Norwood, a
few yards from the bank. The
duckling in the picture is an
intruder.' It will be seen from
the sketch that the bird is
sitting on a round straggly-
looking nest made of small
branches and twigs of wood.
The nest is on a white life-buoy,
and the life-buoy is floating on
the water of the lake.
which seemed to be above the
pool—above it. You know, If
you get an egg, & pull it out a
bit—like that shape !
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
[2.] Then Dora says these
two words :
" Grotesque clothes
—grotesque clothes."
[3.] Narrow ? A narrow way,
Dora? Mr Bill! She's not
sure if this is in the picture, or
whether its just above, or below
it, but very close to the picture
is something to do with narrow
turnings—narrow streets or
turnings. She seemed to get
the word " narrow "
—the word
" narrow "—so will you re-
member that ? (Yes.) Em
—
She sure that so close to it that
when you see it, you'll say, " Oh
well ! If that's not part of
this picture, can see why she
thought it was."
[2.] There is only one other
group of pictures, on this page,
forming an advertisement of
'
This week in London.' 1
These
pictures begin about 9 inches
from the first Test-picture, to-
wards 8 o'clock, and include
two men and a woman in
Georgian costumes with old-
fashioned coach, and lacqueys
;
a Bow Street runner ; and a
man riding a bicycle in silk hat,
and top boots.
[3.] Six inches below the first
Test-picture is an article en-
titled '
Runaway Horse in the
City.' It says, '
A horse attached
to a milk float ran away through
the narrow thoroughfare of Little
Brittain, City, today and bolted
along Newgate-street into Bar-
tholomew-close. . .
.'
[4.] What a huge sum of
money, too, is mentioned, a
large sum of money is men-
tioned, or referred to, or sug-
gested. She didn't see a picture
of money—she got the idea of
a large sum of money, but
again its connected with the
picture. It may be that words
or figures representing money
are incorporated in the picture.
[4.] Immediately below the
first Test-picture is an article
headed, in large type, '
Stock-
broker's £2,500 Libel Damages.'
It says, '
Damages of £2,500
were awarded today to Mr. . . .
a stockbroker. . .
.'
This article extends down the
page till it conies to '
Runaway
Horse '
which is immediately
below.
1
There is another illustrated advertisement. —N. W.
November 1934 Report of a Picture-Test 301
* See item [5] on page 302, in reference to the above illustration. Hon. Ed.
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
[5.] Now, I wonder if I've
got that clear : Picture of a
pool. Koundisli—roundish. Not
a round dish, but roundish !
And another rather more elon-
gated object. That's better !
Grotesque clothes. A large sum
of money. And a narrow turn-
ing, or turnings. You notice ?
Yes, I do notice. Do you
notice, she says, that I've
reversed the order of the last,
the last two items ? (Yes,
I had noticed.) Keep it that
way, she says, I think that's
better—I think that's better.
That what she says. Yes. She
just trying to think, Mr Bill,
whether she got that as she
wanted it, Mr Bill, & she think
she has. Now, Mr Bill ! Keep
all that as it is. . . .
[5.] It will be noticed that by
reversing the order of the last
two items, Dora has placed
them in their correct order as
you read down the page from
Coot's nest.
A NOTE ON THE ABOVE RECORD AS EVIDENCE OF
PRECOGNITION
By Nea Walker
The plan to take the test from the Evening News of the day following
the Sitting, was this time carried out. It will be remembered that
the corroboration of the previous test published was found in the
Daily Mail instead {Journal, Vol. 28, p. 280).
I obtained half a dozen copies of the Evening News. The dates
of my issues were May 17, 18, 19, 21, 23, and 26, 1934. There appears
to be in this paper an average of between and 6-|- illustrations
of one kind and another per page ; this estimate includes topical
photographs, illustrations to advertisements, cartoons, crossword
diagrams, anything in fact which might serve to fit in with a test of
the type under discussion. Seldom is there a page without some
picture, and I studied these six copies carefully with a view to
fitting in the details of the test.
November 1934 Evidence of Precognition 303
Let us take the points of the test for the moment as,
—
(a) " a pool . . . ripples, & something that looks as if intended
to be round-shaped, like water. And ... a long-shaped
thing, like a long pillow . . . which seemed to be above the
pool, above it. . . . (Feda proceeds to describe this object
as shaped like an egg '
pulled out a bit ')."
(b) " Grotesque clothes."
(c)
4i
A huge sum of money, a large sum of money . . . connected
with the picture."
(d) "A narrow way, the word '
narrow ' ".
Illustrating what my search revealed, I may mention that, the
first number of the newspaper, 17th May, had on page 12, a picture
of Rickmanswortk aquadrome ;
this fitted the test in respect of
(«). for sun-umbrellas, showing in perspective as '
above '
the pool,
are '
intended to be round-shaped '
but, again owing to perspective,
give a more egg-shaped effect, —no less like an elongated egg than the
test picture. (6) is not as well matched as on Mr Irving's page ;.
only pictures of people in bathing attire being available, (c) the
'
huge '
or '
large '
sum of money, is better matched, in an article
printed round and relating to the picture, the sums mentioned being
£12,000 and £10,000. (d) the '
narrow '
item I did not find.
The next number, for 19th May, did not fit (a) as well as did the
Coot's Nest in the test. However, in regard to (b), in the column
next but one, 2| inches away, but level with part of the picture,,
is the headline,—' To Hospital in her Court Gown ', and these are
'
grotesque clothes '
in which to go to hospital. As to (c),—-next
to the picture, is the headline, in heavy type, '
£500,000 Girl to
Marry '.
(d) Did not appear.
The issue of May 21st (p. 8) yielded a photograph very similar
to that of the test-picture, except for the absence of the life-buoy.
In this case the base of the nest looks egg-shaped. And for (c) we
find, below the picture, at 7 o"clock, and directly below the article
which the picture illustrates, writ very large,— '
£8,000,000 un-
claimed '. This is more prominent on the page than the sum
mentioned on the test page, and it is '
a huge sum '.
(6) fails.
Regarding (d) there was not even the word '
narrow '
on the page.
Of the supposedly subsidiary points, (c) the money item might
have proved evidentially negligible as far as this paper is concerned
(finding a page without something of the kind is less likely than
finding one with it) were it not for the interesting reversal of the
order of (c) and (d) by the communicator, (b) was I think perhaps
best fitted on the test page ;
though I feel that '
To Hospital in
her Court Gown '
is quite good.
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
But (d) proves to be the distinctive point of the test. I searched
carefully and laboriously, and I did not find even the word '
narrow
'
on any of the pages where the rest of the points might have fitted.
Therefore, it will be seen that in no paper studied was there any-
thing approaching to the sequence of the references which were
offered as the test.
I ascertained, a propos of nothing, from Mrs Leonard, that the
papers she sees regularly are the following,
—
Daily Express, Daily
Herald, Evening Standard, Sunday Express, Radio Times, '
Lady '
Quarterly Pattern Book. She says that she " can't take any news-
papers like Tlie Times or Telegraph for fear of spoiling evidence
through reading births and deaths column."
November 1!)34 Report of a Picture Test 305
REPORT OF A PICTURE-TEST
FROM NEXT DAY'S DAILY MAIL
By the Rev. W. S. Irving
Introductory Note :
Having received two Picture-tests from the next day's Evening
News, I asked Dora, in the Personal Control on 24 April 1934, to
go back to the Daily Mail for her Picture-tests. The following is
the second that she has given since then. This picture, which is de-
scribed in detail, below, was on the middle page (number 10) of the
Daily Mail for Friday, 27 July 1934. It was to the right of the
Leading Article for the day, and it illustrated an article entitled
" King John's is not our only lost treasure." The description below
the picture runs as follows :
" Loch Arkaig, Scotland, where Prince Charles is reported to have
buried treasure worth £30,000 after Culloden. (Inset) Miss Margaret
Naylor, who made several descents as a diver in Tobermory Bay,
where she attempted to locate a sunken Spanish galleon laden with
gold."
The Sitting began at 10.43 a.m., and the Picture-test immediately
followed Feda's greetings, so that the whole must have been given
before 11.0 a.m. on 26 July 1934.
Extract from a Sitting with ,
1934. Sitter: Rev.W.SA
[Feda]. . . .[1] Dora's here, and
she says, First of all, may she
please give you a Picture-test ?
(Yes—good.) Well, she say, she
sees something that she thinks
look like a globe—a globe ;
[2] but sticking out of the
globe is a small loop—a small
loop.
[3] And some-one wearing a
rather peculiar top-knot, top-
knot or head-dress—top-knot or
head-dress. Mr Bill. (Yes ?)
*-s Leonard on Thursday, 26 July
ring. Recorder: MissE.M.Horsell.
[1] Miss Naylor is wearing the
usual globe-shaped diver's head-
dress. Only the part covering
the head and neck are shown in
the picture . The round glass that
should cover the face has not been
screwed on, so her face is visible
through the opening.
[2] Part of the lowering rope
is visible attached to the neck of
the diving costume, and it is
held in place by a piece of nar-
rower rope. This forms a loop
between two sections of rope.
[3] As stated above, Miss
Naylor is wearing the diver's
head-dress.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
OUTLINE SKETCH OF THE PAGE OF THE "
DAILY MAIL" REFERRED
TO IN THIS REPORT
10 fridav, tjffte SaiIyiEa.it julv27, 1934
KING JOHN'S Is NOT our
l
^t-W] ONLY LOST TREASURE
* Sentences suggesting quantities as stated in text and annotations.
f The area enclosed within the dotted lines shows the position of the
words in heavy type which appear on the reverse side of the page
and contain an account of 'Life-saving.'
November 1934 Report of a Picture Test 307
[4] She sees a head—she
doesn't know whether its a man
or woman—a person's head.
When you see it, you'll have to
look at it to see which you think
it is. The clothing—wait a min-
ute—there's something about the
clothing, the attire, that makes
Dora uncertain about the sex.
[5] but on the head is some-
thing, look, looks to her like
sprouting—something sticking
up—sprouting. Can't make it
out
!
[6] There's also something re-
presenting quantities—quantities
—some figures meaning a quan-
tity, you see a quantity—like, it
might be a hundred tons. Dora
says, I don't say it is a hundred
tons, but the idea is a large
quantity.
[7] There's a strong difference
—a very great difference marked
between the foreground and back-
ground in this picture.
[8] You see something dis-
appearing in the background.
Perspective? Yes ! I know what
that is—the perspective ! per-
spective of drains ! I've got a
sitter who is a perspective of
drains ! Dora says Nothing to
do with it. Anyhow, his name
was Willie !
[4c] It is not possible to tell
whether the face looking through
the vizor is that of a man or a
woman. Although the face is
clear, and you can see that there
is a smile on the face, the circular
opening is too small for the sex of
the diver to be determined.
[5] There is a round black
protuberance near the top, on
each side of the globular head-
dress, about the size of a Brussel-
sprout.
[6] In addition to the words
from the description of the pic-
ture, "... buried treasure worth
£30,000 ... a sunken Spanish
galleon laden with gold ..."
there are a number of other sen-
tences in this article that also
suggest " quantities." For ex-
ample :
"... legends of great wealth
hidden in the soil. . .
.
'
"... gold and plate, worth
several millions of pounds. . . .
"
"... gems and silver plate
were strewn about. ..." *
[7] The foreground of the pic-
ture is light. There are white
stones on the shore of the Loch,
and the water is light in colour.
In the background are the
rugged Scottish hills, and they
look dark.
[8] In the background, the
distant end of the Loch is hidden
by a projecting promontory.
The hills also seem to grow
smaller as they diminish in the
distance. The word " dimin-
uendo " would be much in my
wife's mind in life, as she did so
large an amount of practice with
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
Dora says, " Something dis-
appearing." That's drains
!
" No," she says, " there isn't any
drains in this—It's a perspective,
something disappearing in the
distance, in the background : a
diminuendo." Do you know what
that is ? (Yes.) Dora says, So
do I. I've got reason to. Dora do
you want to say that 1 'Tisn't a
joke, Mr Bill ! I've reason to.—
Memories of the earth. She says,
Diminuendo—diminuendo. Like
that way ! Well ! I think that's
all about the picture.
[9] Oh no ! Calcutta ! I got
the word Calcutta. I'm not
sure—I don't think it's in the
picture, it seems to be very close
to it in the printing—printed
matter, very close to the picture,
Calcutta. That's right, Mr Bill
!
[10] Life-saving. Life-saving.
It's all life, you see, it's life-sav-
ing. I kept trying to detach de-
tails what I've already got in the
picture, and something kept say-
ing out to me " Life-saving." I
couldn't see it in the picture. I
couldn't find it in the picture but
I felt it in the picture. And I
think I may. I think I may have
been getting it—I think I may
have been getting it through the
picture, if you understand, from
the page at the back of the pic-
ture. That's right, Mr Bill, that's
right ! I've told him, Dora !
Yes. I think that's all.
the violin, and she played
orchestras at times.
m
[9] The word " Calcutta
"
occurs twice on this page, in the
printed matter. The first is
12 ins. towards 8 o'clock, from
the Test-picture ; or 1\ ins. from
the bottom of the Article on
Buried Treasure. The second is
Vi\ ins. and 8 inches.
[10] On page 9 of the
Daily Mail (back of page 10),
the words " Sgt. -Major dies sav-
ing his men," are in large type,
immediately below the back of
the Test-picture.
Two inches below that are the
words " A Company Sergeant-
Major sacrificed his own life but
saved 40 men under his
charge. .
.-."+
November 1934 Report of a Picture Test 309
NOTE ON THE ABOVE RECORD
By Mrs W. H. Salter
Mr Irving sent me the corresponding page of the Daily Mail from
the issues of July 28, the day following the test, and the issues of
August 18 to August 31, 1934, inclusive.
I examined these thirteen pages without finding anything which
fulfilled the conditions of the test to any appreciable extent.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Editor of The Journal
Dear Sir, —May I ask your courtesy to insert the following in
order to correct a possible misapprehension on the part of readers as
to my fairness in the editorial control of the Report of Debate
between Dr Shailer U. Lawton and myself appearing in the Journal
of the A.S.P.R. for May 1934 and adverted to by you in a Note on
p. 294 of your October issue of the S.P.R. Journal just to hand.
I have merely to say that all my notes of the Debate were handed
to Dr Lawton who was invited to amplify to a fuller extent his
" negative " contribution ; as I felt it to be scanty. But Dr Lawton,
in a very cordial rejoinder, declined to supplement this further,
indicating that he felt the strength of the argument lay upon the
affirmative side. The Report is therefore admittedly a fair one and
entirely satisfactory to my opponent in debate.
Yours very truly,
Fredk. Bligh Bond.
Editor of the Journal of the A.S.P.R.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
REVIEWS
Theodore Besterman, Inquiry into the Unknown : A B.B.C.
Symposium. Pp. 142. London. Methuen. 1934. Price 3s. 6d.
In organising last winter a series of talks on psychical research by
accredited investigators the B.B.C. did a real service both to science
and to the British public. That service is now enhanced by the
publication of the talks in a cheap and attractive form.
The difficulties confronting the promoters of such a scheme are
considerable. As in all wireless talks on scientific subjects, the
speakers must make their points in a minimum of time, and make
them without lapsing into jargon or into vagueness. And in a matter
so controversial as psychical research the public has a right to
expect that two further conditions shall be observed : the sym-
posiasts must represent between them as many as possible of the
divergent points of view current among educated researchers ; and
in urging their case they must scrupulously avoid overstatement,
sensationalism, the confusion of fact with hypothesis—on survival,
especially, the man who makes a pronouncement before a million
of his fellows assumes a very serious responsibility.
In the present series a praiseworthy, if not completely successful,
attempt has been made to satisfy these requirements. The attitudes
represented range from the orthodoxy of Prof. Seligman, who keeps
throughout to the safe ground of suggestion and dissociation, to the
decidedly " left-wing " views of Dame Edith Lyttelton, Sir Ernest
Bennett and Sir Oliver Lodge. Personally, had I been picking a
team, I should have tried to include a more explicit sceptic than
Prof. Seligman, and also a champion of the hypothesis—increasingly
influential on the continent—which explains the supernormal
element in mediumistic phenomena solely by the medium's own
powers. Room might have been found for these by omitting the
discussion on the fire-walk, which, though interesting in itself, fills
relatively too much space and is too loosely linked with the central
topics.
Most of the speakers handle with skill and discretion the themes
assigned to them. Mr Heard's introductory remarks could scarcely
be bettered ; Mr Besterman is sound and interesting on " How
Psychical Research is done " ; Lord Charles Hope on Physical
Mediumship and Mrs Salter on Telepathy provide admirable sum-
maries of evidence ; and the concluding talk by Prof. Broad might
stand as a model of concise, lucid, and dispassionate exposition.
I was disappointed that Dame Edith Lyttelton concerned herself less
with the evidential status of the belief in precognition than with its
metaphysical implications ; and I found myself quarrelling more
than once with Sir Ernest Bennett, as when he called deferred
November 1934 Revieivs 311
telepathy a " strange " hypothesis, " unverified and unverifiable ".
Unverified possibly, though evidence slowly accumulates in its
favour. But why unverifiable ? And why strange ? If, as most of
us believe for good reasons (cf. Mrs Salter, p. 68), telepathic messages
are first apprehended subconsciously, it would be a deal stranger
that they should always penetrate to consciousness on the instant.
In the next paragraph Sir Ernest appears (doubtless by an over-
sight) to confuse phantasms of the dead with those of the dying ;
and a little further on I am left gasping by the importance he
attaches to hallucinations experienced by moribund children
(" surely these little ones knew nothing of death and its problems ").
But it takes all sorts to make a symposium ; and if sentiment here
and there seeps in through the gaps in the logic, we can turn for a
corrective to Prof. Broad, who will be " slightly more annoyed than
surprised " if he finds himself surviving the death of his present bodv.
E. B. D.'
Mes W. H. Salter, Evidence for Telepathy : the Response to a
Broadcast Request for Cases. Pp. 87. London, Sidgwick and
Jackson. 1934.
Mrs Salter appealed in her broadcast talk for reports by listeners
of apparently telepathic experiences : she received as a result about
400 letters, and these when sifted revealed 58 cases which appeared
to merit closer examination. This little book (which can be had for
2s. of the Secretary, S.P.R.) contains an analysis of the 58 stories,
and reproduces about 40 of them either verbatim or in a summarised
form. In most of them, as Mrs Salter recognises, it would be easy
for a sceptic to pick holes : only 6 cases are placed by her in " Grade
I ", as being both recent (within the last three years) and fully
corroborated ; in only one of these six, which are all of them death
—
or illness—coincidences, was the identity of the presumed agent
definitely and correctly apprehended by the percipient at the time
of his experience ; and in that one case (a dream occurring 24 hours
after agent's death) the agent was already known to be ill. The
really impressive coincidences are to be found, alas, in " Grade II
,;
.
Nevertheless the book as a whole does afford some answer to those
persons who assert that in our enlightened age spontaneous telepathy
no longer occurs ; and it may be hoped that a perusal of it will
induce future percipients to record their experiences promptly and
send them to the S.P.R. with the fullest corroboration available.
I must add that the curious will find in " Grade II " at least one
delightfully entertaining narrative ; also an instructive example of
the way in which material of apparently telepathic origin may be
casually used to embellish the symbolic details of a disguised sex
dream. E. R. D.
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Quarterly Transactions of the British College for Psychic Science, Ltd.,
July 1934.
Dr Frederic H. Wood, Life Eternal.—Professor D. F. Fraser-
Harris, The Influence of Light on Telekineses. [An attempt to
explain the need for darkness on biological lines]—[This number
also contains reports of a number of speeches delivered at a dinner
of the " British College "].
Revue Metapsychique, May-June 1934.
Dr E. Osty, A Faculty of Paranormal Knowledge : Mile Jeanne
Laplace [to be continued].—Dr Karel Kuchynka, Sittings at Prague
with Rudi Schneider. [This account of some private sittings held
in the winter of 1929-1930 follows the usual lines, and reports the
usual telekineses, under moderately good conditions.]—G. E. Van
Rynberk, Occultism and Metapsychics in the Eighteenth Century.
[This third instalment deals with Willermoz and mediumistic
writings]. —Dr E. Servadio and E. Pascal, Psychoanalysis. [A brief
discussion]. —Dr Francois Moutier, On the Threshold of Meta-
psychics. [An eloquent address delivered at the inauguration of the
Societe des Amis de l'lnstitut Metapsychique].
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, June
1934.
[This number opens with the addresses delivered at the anniver-
sary of M. Rutot's death]. —M. Schaerer, Oh ! Noumenon, Where
dost thou lead us ? —Monograph of the Henri Vandermeulen
apparatus.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie.
May 1934.—Prof. Oskar Fischer, On the Problem of Criminal
Telepathy. [To be continued.]—Dr F. Quade, Mediumistic Investi-
gations in Hypnosis. [To be continued.]—A. Hofmann, Various
Haunts.—Dr Carl Bruck, Clairvoyance into the Future ? Chance ?
Or neither of the two ? [A suggestion that a precognition may
bring about its own fulfilment by normal means].—H. Hanig, Is
Spiritualism a Science ? [The author answers in the negative.]
—
Dr Pap von Chengery, The Swedish Adventure and Martyrdom of
the Hungarian Medium Lajos Papp. [Under this exciting title the
writer describes the negotiations, etc., between the medium and a
Mrs Hellberg].
November 1934 Notes on Periodicals 313
June 1934.—Prof. Oskar Fischer, On the Problem of Criminal
Telepathy. [Concluded. The writer suggests that psychometry is
a fact, but that telepathic influences are often present, and that
mediums should therefore be used in criminal cases only with
caution.]—R. Miller, Interesting Spontaneous Phenomena in Freis-
ing.—Dr F. Quade, Is Spiritualism a Science ? [The writer regrets
Herr Hanig's doubts, and is satisfied that the question is to be
answered in the affirmative.]—F. M. Fellmann, Clairvoyance or
Radiation ? [The writer concludes for the latter].
Zeitschrift fur Metapsychische Forschung, June 1934.
Dr Simsa, Interesting Observations in Physical Mediumship with
the Prague Medium Wolf. [To be concluded.]—Conrad Schuppe,
Frau Helga Hagen, a variously endowed Amateur Medium. [Con-
cluded. Telekineses are declared to have occurred in brilliant light].
—Prof. Christoph Schroder, The agent in Haunts.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, May 1934.
A. G. van Hamel, Supernormal Occurrences in Iceland. [This
interesting article is largely historical]. —Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff, On
the Commemoration of Mesmer's Birthday. —Dr A. A. v. d. Kroon,
Report of some Supernormal Occurrences based on Personal Ex-
perience. [One of these cases, the second, is a well-corroborated
instance of a telepathic dream].
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, July 1934.
Dr P. A. Dietz, An Electrical Man. [A very brief account of a
man who is apparently able to produce deflections, by mere proxi-
mity, in electrical recording instruments].—Prof. M. C. van Mourik
Broekman, Parapsychology and Theological Problems [Part II].
—
Dr J. Hofker, Gurwitsch-Radiation. [The writer suggests that the
so-called mitogenetic radiations may be useful in psychical research ;
he seems to be unaware that these alleged phenomena have been
almost completely discredited. ) Th. B.
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1934
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOE PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 510.—Vol. XXVlII. December 1934
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NO MEETING
There will be no Meeting of the Society in December, as the usual
day for the Meeting will be Boxing Day. The next Meeting will
be held on Wednesday, 30 January 1935, and will be announced
in the January Journal.
THE BOSTON SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Our Members will be interested to learn that Dr J. B. Rhine, whose
work on Extra-Sensory Perception has aroused so much interest,
was in October appointed Research Officer in succession to Dr Walter
J. Prince. We wish Dr Rhine, who has recently joined our Society,
all success in his new post.
NEW MEMBERS
Hervey, Mrs. I. H., c/o Westminster Bank, Oxford.
Maby, J. C, B.Sc, 3 Rawlinson Road, Oxford.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 324th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 November 1934, at 3.30 p.m.,
The President in the Chair. There were also present : Professor
C. D. Broad, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr Gerald Heard, Miss Ina
Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H.
Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt and the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1934
PRIVATE MEETING
The 133rd Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
28 November 1934, at^5.30£p.m., The President in the Chair.
Mr G. N. W. Tyrrell read a paper on " Normal and Super-
normal Perception ", and a brief discussion followed.
CASE
A Veridical Impression Coinciding with an Illness
Subsequently Fatal
The following incident, which concerns a veridical impression
coinciding with an illness subsequently fatal, cannot be exactly
classified, because there is unfortunately some doubt as to the date
upon which the impression was received. In the report which was
first sent to us it appeared that the impression coincided in time
with the onset of the illness, in which case the incident should be
classified as telepathic ;
subsequently the percipient, Mrs Prior,
was inclined to think that the impression had occurred at an earlier
date, in which case it must be regarded as previsional. It appears
certain that the impression was received and told to more than one
witness before Mrs Prior had any normal knowledge of the illness, j
The first report of the^case was contained in a letter sent to the
Secretary, Miss Newton, in response to the request for evidence of
telepathy broadcast by Mrs Salter on 16 February 1934. Mrs
Garrett, of Teignmouth, wrote as follows on 17 February 1934 :
" Listening to Mrs W. H. Salter's talk over the wireless last night
on telepathy and hearing her ask any one listening in who had
anything evidential to send and let you know, so am sending an
experience my sister in West Australia had.
My husband had been in indifferent health for some time, but
not really ill, and we did not anticipate there was anything serious
wrong, had not seen his doctor for 9 months. He was taken very
ill on the 8th July (Saturday) and the next day asked a nurse to
come in and see him. (She had previously given him treatment.)
She came at about 2.30 and almost at once he was taken worse.
She said, '
This is serious, we must have a doctor at once. Dr D.
(our own doctor) is away for the day. Who shall I fetch ?
'
I said,
'
Dr K.', who lives just opposite. He came at once. After examina-
tion he told me it was a growth and most likely my husband would
only last about 24 hours. Our own doctor came about 6 p.m. and
verified this ; also a specialist who came about 10.30 p.m. My
husband rallied a little and then passed away on the 18th July.
I sent my sister a cable the same morning which she received the
next day. Then she wrote telling me her experience."
December 1934 Case 317
Mrs Garrett then proceeded to give an account of her sister,
Mrs Prior's experience, but as she afterwards sent us the letter she
had from Mrs Prior and we have also heard from Mrs Prior herself, it
is not necessary to give Mrs Garrett's statement. On 13 August
1934 Mrs Prior, who lives in Swanbourne, West Australia, wrote a
letter to Mrs Garrett from which we give the following extract :
" You will remember the Sunday you sent by 'phone for M. On
the day previous, Saturday, at about 6.30 a.m. to 6.45 a.m., with
you summer time (1.30 p.m. to 1.45 p.m. here), were you watching
Herbert specially, was he particularly bad just then ? Has your
doctor (or one of the doctors who attended) two rather deep furrows
down side of nose and cheek, so ) ( (He was dark.) My explanation
is rather crude. But can you understand my description ? Because
I think it may comfort you to know that I got your strong thought-
wave, or whatever it was that came to me. Whilst wide awake,
but resting on a chair in our dining-room for a few minutes, just
before removing the dinner dishes after Saturday's midday meal, I
had my eyes closed, but it was all as clear to me as looking at a
'
picture screen '. Many figures came and went, then the one man
I have tried to describe to you occupied the whole screen. He went,
and beyond him, or where he had stood, I distinctly saw Herbert,
just the face, apparently asleep. In astonishment I looked, till I
recognised who it was, then jumped up, ran to Harry in our bed-
room, where he was busy changing his suit, ready for his Saturday
afternoon's work about the house, and described it all, adding, '
I
hope nothing is wrong. I'm afraid Herbert may be ill '. I then
said to Harry, '
I shall forget all about this, but I want you to
remember I am not dreaming '.
All day after your cable came I kept saying '
There's something
I've got to remember in connexion with this. What is it 1
Just before we fell asleep that night I suddenly remembered that
strange vision, which I believe was a most intense thought-wave
sent by you and because I happened to be '
receptive '
at that
particular moment I got it, because we were '
tuned in '
as it were."
Having seen the above letter from Mrs Prior to Mrs Garrett,
Miss Newton wrote to Mrs Prior asking if she could send us a cor-
roborative statement from her husband and from any other person
to whom she had mentioned her experience before she knew of
Mr Garrett's illness. In reply she received the following statement
from Mrs Prior, dated 31 March 1934 :
" Having had the following very strange experience some months
ago, I have decided to write it in detail that I may not forget the
facts. Unfortunately at the time I did not make a note of the date,
but I am absolutely certain that it was on a Saturday afternoon,
somewhere about 1.30 p.m., towards the end of June or early part
of July 1933.
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1934
My husband and I had just finished dinner on that particular
Saturday, and I left the table, to sit quietly in an easy chair by
the dining-room window to rest for a few minutes, before removing
the dishes, whilst my husband sat silently reading the newspaper.
I closed my eyes, but did not sleep. In a very short time I saw (as
on a picture screen) people coming and going in great haste ;
so
quickly did they cross the vision of my screen that I could not
recognise them or describe them. I was interested, but did not
move, though I knew my husband had just left the table and had
gone into the bedroom. I sat perfectly still with my eyes closed.
The hurrying to and fro of people I could not recognise ceased, and
the whole screen of my vision was taken up by a man, who was
quite still, as in a photograph. He was shown full-face, head,
shoulders and chest. He looked straight ahead with a very sad
and grave expression. I would call him dark and rather muscular,
and thickset (from the general appearance of head and shoulders).
He wore dark clothing ; the suit or gown, or coat, being of some
rough, or rather coarsely-woven material. But what I noticed
above all was the deep lines, like furrows, in either side of his face,
so :
) ( As I looked he left the screen, as instantaneously as he had
appeared, and away in the background of my field of vision I saw
what I took to be a man lying ill in bed. Here again I only saw the
face, very, very thin, apparently asleep on his back. There was a
rim of light round his head. As I looked I thought, '
I know you.
Who are you ?
'
Then I knew without a doubt it was Herbert,
my brother-in-law, and I recognised him then. I hurried to the
bedroom to tell my husband this strange experience. I said, '
I'm
afraid there is something wrong in Teignmouth (Eng.). Herbert is
ill '. Then I detailed what I had seen, exactly as I have described
it here, adding, '
You'll believe me, won't you ? I was not asleep,
and I know I shall forget all about it, so that if there is anything
wrong, will you remember that I told you all about it and that I
did not dream it ?
'
. . . For some days this strange event was very
much in my mind and I recounted it in every detail to a friend, Mrs W.
I am almost sure it was on the following Monday morning I told Mrs W.
I knew that Herbert was in poor health and that my sister was
worrying about it, and yet the weekly letters from my sister told me
regularly of the work Herbert was doing in his orchard or home. As
a matter of fact my sister was far from being in the best of health at
this time, and my thoughts were so much on her condition that Her-
bert's state of health had not worried me to any considerable extent.
On Wednesday morning July 19th I received a cable from my
sister in England, telling me that Herbert had passed away on the
Tuesday, July 18th. All that day I kept saying, '
I've known all
about this. What is it I have to remember in connexion with this ?
'
Never once that day did my memory recall my strange experience,
Dkckmbek 1934 Case 319
though I asked my husband to help me. He too had forgotten.
Then like a flash at midnight it came to me and I knew I had seen
Herbert as he lay ill, though we were in body thousands of miles
away. I wish to make it quite clear that my husband and I had
forgotten everything, which must help to prove my statement that
I had this prevision some weeks before the events occurred.
My sister now tells me that I have described the doctor she had
to call in. I have never seen him. She believes the marks I called
furrows are '
war-wounds '.
The events as I saw them apparently happened on a Sunday
(2.30 p.m.) in Devonshire, England. . . .
What was the band or rim of light I saw around Herbert's face
and head, following the contour perfectly ? I did not imagine that
light any more than I imagined those very deep lines on the doctor's
face and the very earnest, sad expression. It is more than surprising
to myself that I so quickly dismissed this strange experience from
my mind, and I think maybe the following reasons may have had a
bearing on it : (1) the letters from my sister in England that reached
me after the prevision and before the cable came told me of the
work Herbert was doing in his orchard, digging out some old apple-
trees and replacing them with others he had reared himself. . . .
(2) I told myself I should forget it and my mind obeyed. I did.
(3) It was my sister's health that was troubling me and not to any
great extent that of Herbert. He was so active, assisting the man
to plant the trees, that I could not think of him as being seriously ill.
A letter from England to me in Australia takes four weeks. My
brother-in-law was only seriously ill 10 days, so that the first inti-
mation I had was the cable that told of his '
passing '.
(Signed) Florence Prior."
With this letter Mrs Prior enclosed two corroborative statements,
from her husband and from the friend in Australia to whom she
mentioned her experience at the time. These statements, both of
which are dated 31 March 1934, were as follows :
(1) "I have read the report of the extraordinary incident recorded
by my wife which accompanies this letter and can assure you that it
is accurate in detail, only unfortunately the exact period of time
of its occurrence cannot be given owing to its not being written at
the time, but I am certain that some weeks elapsed between the
vision and the event which it previsioned ; also I can definitely tell
you my wife was not sleeping when she saw what she had related."
(2)
" Mrs Prior has asked me to verify her statement. I wish to
state that one Saturday evening she came to my house and related
the experience she had had that afternoon, particularly mentioning
that she was not sleeping at the time, only resting. I cannot
remember the date, but recollect her coming over on the following
Monday and referring to the incident again."
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1934
We have also received a corroborative statement from the nurse
in England to the effect that she was called in to see Mr Garrett at
2.30 p.m. on 9 July 1933 and went immediately to fetch Dr K.
With regard to Mrs Prior's impression of the doctor's appearance
and especially of the lines on his face, Mrs Garrett informed us in
her original letter of 17 February 1934 that Dr K. " has lines or
ridges, sort of lines one side of his face, I believe through war service
'
'
.
She subsequently told us that Mrs Prior had never seen Dr K., and al-
though she had seen him herself before he was called in on 9 July 1933,
his appearance had never made any great impression on her mind.
With regard to the question of whether this incident is to be
regarded as affording evidence of prevision, the following points
may be noted :
(1) The most nearly contemporary evidence we have as to the
date of Mrs Prior's experience is contained in her letter to Mrs
Garrett of 13 August 1933. At this time she appears to have thought
that her vision occurred on the Saturday upon which Mr Garrett's
fatal illness began. Subsequently she came to the conclusion that
it had occurred earlier, " some weeks before the events occurred ".
It should, however, be remembered that even supposing that Mrs
Prior's experience took place as late as 8 July, eleven days elapsed
before she had a cable on 19 July informing her of Mr Garrett's
death. Mrs Prior's chief reason for putting the vision to an earlier
date seems to be that it had faded from her conscious mind so com-
pletely when she heard of the death. But Mrs Prior herself gives
a possible explanation of this, and perhaps does not realise how apt
impressions, subconsciously received, are to fade from consciousness.
(2) Assuming that Mrs Prior's experience occurred on 8 July, it
still contains a previsional element, if we can be sure that her
impression of Dr. K.'s appearance was veridical, for Dr K. was not
called in to see Mr Garrett until 9 July, and on 8 July there was no
intention on anybody's part to call him in, since he was not Mr
Garrett's regular doctor.
REVIEWS
J. Arthur Hill, Experiences with Mediums. 8vo. Pp. 221. Lon-
don, Rider & Co. 1934. Price 7s. 6d.
The aim of this book is to show that Psychical Research presents
problems that cannot be explained by telepathy from the sitter nor,
in some cases, by even " link " telepathy.
The author begins by making clear the frame of mind in which
he first approached the subject of Psychical Research and then pro-
ceeds to narrate experiments he made with the medium Aaron
Wilkinson. He first gives cases where evidential details known to
him about himself and others are mixed with details he did not
Deckmbkr l'J34 Reviews 321
know consciously and which he feels sure he did not know sub-
consciously. He then goes on to re-tell the " Napier Lund " case
which, he contends, rules out not only telepathy from the sitter but
also " link " telepathy, leaving only the possibility of telepathy
from some unknown, " unlinked " mind ; a possibility which he
declines to entertain.
An interesting section of the book is that composed of evidential
details concerning deceased persons whom the author knew only
through correspondence over psychical research. Another interest-
ing case concerns details, given through two different mediums, of an
unidentified " communicator " named Slater. Mr Hill has inserted
it in the hope that some reader may be able to clear up the mystery.
As the book is largely composed of accounts of the author's
sittings with "Wilkinson, he introduces, as corroborative evidence,
the experiences with the same medium of three other sitters, one of
whom. Canon Freeman of Bristol Cathedral, contributes to the book
a " Confirmatory Letter ". There is also an interesting and useful
chapter on Wilkinson himself.
The book is well planned, lucidly written and free from dogmatism.
The records are taken from notes made verbatim during the sittings,
and this is as much as can be expected of any experimenter at
present. Some day we may be able to listen to and watch a repro-
duction of a sitting, for even verbatim notes leave unrecorded many
details of vital importance. Much may depend, for instance, on the
degree of hesitation or decision with which a sitter makes a remark
or even on the intonation of his voice.
Many critics, however, would consider that the evidence in this
book is such as to dispose of doubt on this score ; and so there
remains for final consideration the question of the medium's honesty.
This is the crux of the problem presented by the book, and the
difficulty is, of course, realised by the author, who refers to it many
times. He, however, has an advantage over the reader :
" I dismiss
ordinary fraud, for I knew Wilkinson for twenty years and never
found him out in any deviation from complete honesty "
(p. 102).
And, indeed, many investigators who have experimented with one
particular medium over a number of years could use similar lan-
guage ; but there remains the difficulty, inseparable from Psychical
Eesearch at its present stage, of inspiring the reader with the same
confidence. J. W. F.
Shaw Desmond, We do not Die. Arthur Barker, Ltd. 1934.
Price, 8s. 6d.
The promise of the somewhat flamboyant title which Mr Shaw
Desmond has chosen for his book is amply fulfilled in the text. He
writes in what the publisher's advertisement would probably call
a " vivid and arresting " style. It is a style which, though possibly
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1934
suitable for the more sensational crime stories, is hardly adapted for
serious discussion of a very serious subject. Let me quote a couple
of passages taken more or less at random as a sample. Page 67 :
" But when you were told these things you laughed at the sayers
—
called them, forsooth !
'
soothsayers '.
The men of science turned
a deaf ear to them and with a scientific grin and perfunctory examina-
tion turned them down—until recently, when the accumulated
evidence broke through even the leaden sarcophagi of science ".
And page 239 :
" For there is a vulgarity of science as well as of
society, and the grinning materialist's blah-blah inside or outside
the seance room is the belch of the ill-bred man in the face of de-
cency ". However, an unpleasing and unsuitable style is, after all,
only a surface defect ; in a book like this it is what the author has
to say that matters, rather than how he says it.
I regret that I find the contents as little satisfactory as the style.
While Mr Desmond claims a very extensive personal experience of
supernormal phenomena, of evidence, in the sense in which psychical
research uses that word, there is practically none given, nor is there
any reasoned discussion.
We are told a great deal about " the other side " and those
acquainted with theosophical literature will recognise much as
familiar. The conditions of life after death are described with a
wealth of detail, but we have to take Mr Desmond's word for the
accuracy of the description.
As fanciful speculations they may be of interest to those who
care for that sort of thing, but as serious contributions to knowledge
they seem to me to be of little value.
Mr Desmond hits out right and left with astonishing vigour, in
fact he spends a large part of his time in doing so. While he trounces
the poor scientist very thoroughly, he does at least allow him some
virtues. He finds very little good to say about those whom he calls
the " osophists ". I do not imagine that the scientific world will be
seriously disturbed by his strictures ; the work will probably go on
very much as before.
Mr Desmond is evidently a man of varied accomplishments ; he
has travelled widely, he can play cricket and the piano, dance,
write novels and grow roses, etc., etc. He is an expert at jiu-jitsu
and, as a crowning achievement, he has made a voyage round the
Horn on a windjammer. I have some personal knowledge of life
at sea myself, though, I confess, not in sail, but I cannot see that it is
likely to induce any special aptitude for psychical research.
My advice to those interested in psychical research proper who
feel inclined to read this book is this. First read through one
chapter as a sample, say Chap. XXIX on Ghosts. Then if you like
that, go ahead and wade through the rest. You may be amused ; I
fear you will not be instructed. H. F. S.
INDEX TO VOL.
1933-1934
XXVIII
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as " supposed,"
" alleged," etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
Abernethy, Mrs, death of, 195
Addison, James Thayer, Life Beyond
Death in the Beliefs of Mankind.
reviewed, 150
Allison, Mrs Lydia W., " The Thomas
Case," 81, 123, 264
American Society for Psychical Re-
search, Proceedings of, Vols. 20 and
21, 1926-1933, reviewed, 160-7
'
Arthur Graham '
Case, The, 46-7
Associates, Resolution suspending
election of, rescinded, for persons
between 18 and 25 years of age, 98
Bacon, Miss Naomi, medium, 129
Baggally, Mrs W. W., death of,
195
Balfour, Lord, Case of haunting in-
vestigated, 21
Barbanell, Maurice, The Trumpet Shall
Sound, reviewed, 292
Barkel, Mrs, medium, 31
Barker, A. Trevor, The Complete
Works of H. P. Blavatskv, reviewed,
210-1
Barlow, Fred, 18 ;
Investigation of
Supernormal Photography, 22, 34,
45-46 ; The Spirit Photographer
William Hope, 111-2, 264
Barnard, G. C, The Supernormal,
reviewed, 181
BarwelJ, W. Harrison, of Sheffield,
18, 187
Bavink, Bernard, The Anatomy of
Modern Science, reviewed, 7-9
Bel], Colonel A. H., President British
Society of Dowsers, 293
Benabo, M., 239
Bennett, Sir Ernest, 21 ; and B.B.C.,
170, 310
Berly, MUe de, medium, 142
Besterman, Mrs, Investigation of
Fru Ingeborg Kober, nee Dahl, 21 ;
review by, 149 ; review by, 181
Besterman, Th., Investigation of Fru
Ingeborg Kober, nee Dahl, 21 ;
Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams,
22 ; on supernormal Photography,
34, 35 ; Note on an Attempt to
Locate in Space the alleged Direct
Voice in Sittings with Mrs. Leon-
ard, 84, 85 ;
Appointed Investiga-
tion Officer, 122. 128 ; Resigned,
296 ; reviews by, 134-5, 147-8,
149-150, 150-2, 167-8 ;
book-tests,
144; "The Clairvoyance of M. Stefan
Ossowiecki," 170 ; —, and B.B.C.,
170, 183. 212-4, 226. 240, 244-6,
249-250, 251, 252-3. 261-2 ;
abroad,
264, 266, 286 ; Books by, Mrs
Annie Bemnt, reviewed, 290, 293 ;
Inquiry into the Unknown : A
B.B.C. Symposium, reviewed, 310
Blavatsky, Mme, 155, 210-1. 290
Blood. Sir Bindon, 223
Bond, F. Bligh, 309
Bonus, A. R., death of, 195
Boston Society of Psychical Research,
Bulletin XIX, 92 ; Bulletin XXI,
reviewed, 182-3 ; 262 : 315
Bozzano, Ernest. Polyglot Medium-
ship (Xenoglossy), reviewed 89-90,
143
Bret, P. Thomas, Precis de Metapsr,-
324 Index to Vol. XXVIII
chique. La Parapsychique, re-
viewed, 47
B.B.C., Talks on Psychical Research,
170, 186,310, 311
British Journal of Medical Psycho-
logy, The, ... 91
Brittain, Mrs, medium, 104, 128, 129
Broad, Dr C. D., review by, 112-4;
and B.B.C., 170; 236, 250, 251
Brown, Dr William, Jubilee Paper,
19
Bruck, Dr Carl, " Experiences in
Reciprocal Telepathy," 278
Bugnet, medium, 34
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches
Metapsychiques de Belgiquc, 32, 136,
168, 213, 262, 312
Carden, Dr W. A., 123
Carington, W. Whately, " The Posi-
tive Implications of Telepathy,"
57-64 ; The Death of Materialism.,
reviewed, 131-3 ;
" The Investiga-
tion of Mediumistic Controls," 139 ;
reviews by, 145-147, 159; 183,
194, 197 ; ""The Quantitative Study
of Trance Phenomena," 248, 286,
288 ;
" Experiments in Precog-
nition," 270, 286, 288 ; 296
Carrington, Hereward, A Primer of
Psychical Research, reviewed, 47 ;
139 ; Houdini and Conan Doyle,
reviewed, 148 ; 159 ;
" The Word
Association Test," 288
Carrington, Marie Sweet, 289
Chambers, Robert, The Investiga-
tions of, 105-110
Chant, StejKhen, on " Ps^yehical Re-
search and the Written Word," 49,
99-102
Chattock, Arthur Prince, obituarv of,
278
Classical antiquity, supernormal oc-
currences in, 75
Cleio, Mile, medium, 12
Conant, Mrs, medium, 106
Controls, the comparative study of,
2 ; —,
gramophone records of, 2,
83, 189 ;
investigation of, 139
Conway, Lady, death of, 195
Costa, Frau S. de, medium, 13
Crofton, Major G. H. S., dream, 85-6
Cromer, Katherine, Countess of,
death of, 195
Crookes, Sir William, 48, 209, 223,
244
Crunden, Mrs W. M., 264
Cummins, Miss Geraldine, 3, 4, 6, 47
;
" Communications of a Personal
Kind," 53 and 130 ; The Road to
Immortality, reviewed, 75 ; The
Great Days of Ephesus. reviewed,
182
Cutter, Geo., medium, 78
DaM, Fru Ingebort; Kober, Investiga-
tion of, 21, 144
Dahl, Ludwig, Dod! Hvor er din
Brodd'i reviewed, 149
Dallas, Miss ... 7, 128-130, 178 ; Poss-
ibility of proving survival, 200
Dawson, Marion, The " Arthur
Graham " L ase, 46-7
Deane, Mrs, medium, 35
Death Coincidence, A. 253, 254-5, 256
Derby, The, 1933, ... 216, 242, 244
Desmond, Shaw, We do not Die, re-
viewed. 321
Dessoir, Professor Max, case quoted
from VomJenseits der Seele ... 67
Development of the Sense of Reality,
The, Paper by Dr Ferenczi, 124
Dietz, Dr P. A., Inaugural Address as
Tutor in Parapsychology, Univer-
sity of Leyden, 10, 226, 313
Difficulties of Investigation, 83
Dingwall, E. J., 244
Direct Voice, the location in space of,
84
Dodds. E. R., 75 ;
" Why I do not
believe in Survival," '
123, 178;
" Precognition and Psychoanaly-
sis," 204-206, 219-220; 287; re-
views bv. 184, 310, 311
Donations, Lists of, 123, 264, 277
Doten, Lizzie, medium, 106
Doudity, W. E. Roland, 217
Dowden, Mrs, 46, 47, 244
Dowsing, 93, 95, 136, 150. 167. 212,
293
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 148, 208
Dream, relating to death of a friend,
3-7, 249-250 "; of an explosion, 85 ;
of result of a race, 2 1 6- 1 8, 24 1 , 244 ;
of a monkey, 236-7, 240-1, 244;
of a present, 250-1 ;
experiments
in precognitive dreams, 35
Dreams that come true, reviewed,
182; 224
Driesch, Hans, Parapsychologie, re-
viewed, 29-30 ;
Psychical Research,
reviewed, 159; 183; " Memory in
Index to Vol. XXVIII 325
Relation to Psychical Research,"
298
Duncan, Rev. V. G., Proof, reviewed,
149
Duncan, Mrs, medium, 15
Dunne, J. W., Inquiry into Precog-
nitive Dreams, 22 : An Experiment
with Time, reviewed, 270-4
Dutton, Miss A. V., death of, 195
Eddington, Sir Arthur, 146-7
Edmonds, Laura, medium, 90, 106,
167
Elizabeth K. (Stigmata), 76-7
Elliott, Mrs Warren, medium, 128,
155, 176, 242-3
Ernst, Bernard L. M., Houdini and
Conan Doyle, reviewed, 148
Erto, medium, 15, 92
Eva C, medium, 48, 116, 181, 207
Evans, Burke A., " Telepathy or
Coincidence ? " 258-9
Evelyn, C. J. A., 264
Falconer Bros., mediums, 34
Feda. Control, gramophone record of,
3, S3, 189
Ferenczi, Sandor, obituary of, 124-5,
195
Fernald, Mrs C. B., obituary of, 155,
195
Feuerheerd, Mrs M., 250
Filiberto, N., medium, 90, 167
Finch, Mrs, medium, 90
Findlater, J. W., 264 ;
review by,
320
Fire, Walking, 170-5, 278; —
,
immunity to, 223-4
Fisk, G. W., Spirit- Photography, 45-6;
Monkey Dream Controversy, 241
Fitzgerald, Mrs Edward, 18, 105
Fletcher, L. S.. resignation of from
council and treasurership, 195
Fodor, Nandor, Encyclopaedia of
Psychic Science, reviewed, 207-9
Forthuny, Pascal, 144
Foster, Chas., medium, 106
Fox, K., medium, 106, 134
Frazer, Sir James George, The Fear of
the Dead in Primitive Religion, re-
viewed, 150
French, Mrs, medium, 106
Freud. Professor Sigmund, New In-
troductory Lectures on Psycho-An-
alysis, reviewed, 224-6
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 123
Garrett, Mrs, medium, 139, 194, 213,
288
Gatty, Oliver, 189 ; co-opted to the
Council, 229 : "An Informal Re-
port on Rudi Schneider," 249, 264,
286, 296
Gazerra, Linda, medium, 116
Gibbes, Miss E. B., 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 47
;
On some Communications of a
Personal Kind, Received through
Miss Geraldine Cummins, 53-7, and
130; 76
Gillhausen, Major Guido von, pro-
phecy, 67-74
Gogswell, J. G., medium, 106
Gollgher, K., medium. 135
Gordon, H. C, medium, 106
Graham, Alan Howgrave, " Specula-
tions about Telepathy," 197
Graham, the " Arthur Graham
"
Case, 46-7
Graham, John William, Psychical
Experiences of Quaker Ministers,
reviewed, 179-181
Gramophone Records, of Sittings
with Mrs Leonard, 2, 51, 83, 189;
of the Trance Breathing of Rudi
Schneider, 189
Grant, Malcolm, A New Argument for
God and Survival, reviewed, 293
Grondahl, Illit, " Notes on Sittings,"
102-4
Giuidle, Kathe, medium. 10
H. J. V.. Death's Door Ajar, reviewed,
292
Hacking Case, The, 187
Hagen, Frau H., medium, 245, 262,
313
Halev, Dr P. S., medium, 151
Hall,' Mrs J. H., 123
Hallucination, 66 ; A Collective Vis-
ual, 251-3
Hallucinatory Impression of a Rela-
tive's Death (Ref. to Journal Nov.
'32), 66-7
Hansard. Arnold G., " Telepathy
and Sleepwalking," 265
Hanussen, medium, 78
Haunting, Case of, investigated, 21
Heard, Gerald, review by, 7-9
;
" Note on an Attempt to locate in
space the Alleged Direct Voice
observed in Sittings with Mrs
Leonard," 84-5 ; —,
opens B.B.C.
Talks on Psychical Research, 170,
326 Index to Vol. XXVIII
189 and 310 ;
co-opted to the
Council, 229 ; 296
Hegy, Reginald, A Witness Through
the Centuries, reviewed, 292
Hesse], Frau, medium, 13
Hibbert Journal, The, reviewed, 294
Hill, J. Arthur, 31 ; review by, 75-6 ;
Letters from Sir Oliver Lodge, re-
viewed, 116-7 ; 187 ;
Experiences
with Mediums, reviewed, 320
Holland, Mrs, medium, 288
Homan, C. H., death of, 195
Home, D. D., 18, 48, 105 ;
Sitting
with, 106-110, 223-4
Hope, Lord Charles, 80 ; Gramo-
phone Record of Breathing of R.
Schneider, 83 ; 92; review by, 117-
120; 123; and B.B.C., 170, 189,
and 310 ; consultant investigator,
195 ;
resignation as, 229 ; 264
Hope, William, spirit photographer,
22, 34, 35, 45-6, 48, 111-2, 207-8
Houdini, 148
Humphries, Mrs, " Impression Coin-
ciding with an Illness,'
1
237-9
Ignath, Frau L., medium, 12
Illness, Impression coinciding with,
66-67, 237-9, 256-8
Impressions, of a relative's death,
66-67 ; of help required, 156-7 ;
coinciding with illness subse-
quently fatal, 237-9, 316-320;
with illness only, 256-8 ; with
deaths, 253-6
Institut Metapsychique, Collabora-
tion with, 188-9
Investigation, difficulties of, 83
Irons, £>r, 189
Irving, Rev W. S., 2-3, 83, 123, 128,
178 ; elected Hon. Associate, 202;
Report on a Picture Test, 280 ;
Reports on Two Picture Tests, 299,
305
Jephson, Ina, review by, 224-6
Johnson, Alice, review by, 179-181
Jones, Miss Margaret, 253-4
Jones, Sir Laurence J., obituary of
G. R. S. Mead, 155
Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research, reviewed, 16,
31, 92-3, 120, 135, 150-1, 167, 212,
226, 245, 294
Journal of the British Society of
Dowsers, Sept. 1933—June 1934,
reviewed, 293
Kahl, Mme, medium, 140
Kakucs, Baroness de, 7 ;
reports
dream, 85-6
Katie King, 244
Klein, Mrs Melanie, 124
Knight, Dr C. V., 123
Kober, Fru Ingeborg, nee Dahl, in-
vestigation of, 21, 51 ; 80, 96, 144,
148, 245
Konnersreuth, 76, 177
Kraus, medium, 116
Kriiger, Frau, medium, 79
Kuchynka, Dr Karel, Problemy meta-
psychologie, reviewed, 209-210
Lambert, R., review by, 115-6
Laplace, Mile, medium, 142, 261, 312
Lara, Mme de, 67
La Ricerca Psichica, 1932 (formerly
Luce e Ombra), reviewed, 15 ;
95-6,
136, 152, 168, 183, 214, 246, 262j
Lawton, Mr George, 183
Lechler, Dr Alfred, Das Rdtsel von
Konnersreuth im Lichte eines neuen
Falles von Stigmatisation, reviewed,
76-7
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, medium, 2,
3, 7, 18 ;
analysis of records of
sittings, 22; 29, 35, 51, 71, 81,
83-5 ; Grondahl Sittings, 102-4 ;
128, 141, 153, 169, 189, 194;
Proxy Case, 229-36 ; Irving Pic-
ture Tests, 280, 299, 305
Lewis, David J., 123
Lodge, Sir Oliver, President for Jubi-
lee Year, 19, 35 ; Letters from Sir
Oliver Lodge, reviewed, 116-7 ; 123 ;
My Philosophy, reviewed, 145-7,
156, 176, 178, 288, 310
Long-distance Telepathy, Experi-
ment in, negative result, 22
Lyttelton, Dame Edith, review by,
'
117 ; and B.B.C, 170; Presidential
Address, 97 ; research committee,
296 ;
" The Response to a Broad-
cast Talk on Precognition," 298,
310; 277
Maeterlinck, Maurice, 94
Mansfield, medium, 106
Mary M., medium, 31, 294
Mason, Mrs, medium, 31
McCutcheon, Mrs, 256-8
McDougall, Professor William, 45,.
126
McKenzie, Mrs Barbara, 111
Index to Vol. XXVIII 327
McKenzie, Hewat, 112
Mansford, Wallis, Bridging Two
Worlfls, reviewed, 293
Margery (Mrs Crandon), 16, 31, 151,
160-7, 207, 212, 245, 262
Mead, G. R. S., obituary of, 155, 195
Mediums, automatists, etc. :
Naomi Bacon, 129 ; Mrs Barkel,
31 ; Mile de Berly, 142 ; Mrs
Besant, 290; H. P. Blavatsky,
155, 210-1, 290; Annie Brittain,
104, 128, 129 ; Bugnet, 34
Eva C, 48, 116, 181, 207 ;
Mile. Cleio, 12 ; Mrs Conant, 106 ;
Frau Sabine de Costa, 13 ; Geral-
dine Cummins, 3, 4, 6, 47, 53, 75,
130, 182 ;
George Cutter, 78
Mrs Deane, 35 ; Lizzie Doten,
106; H. Dowden, 46, 47, 244;
Lady Doyle, 148 ; Mrs Duncan, 15
Laura 'Edmonds, 90, 106, 167;
Mrs Warren Elliott, 128, 155, 176,
242-3 ;
Erto, 15, 92, 96
Falconer Brothers, 34 ; Ninfa
Filiberto, 90, 167 ; Mrs Laura
Finch, 90; P. Forthuny, 144;
Charles Foster, 106 ; K. Fox. 106,
134 ; Mrs French. 106
Mrs Garrett, 139, 194, 213, 288
;
Linda Gazerra, 116 ;
Major G. von
Gillhausen, 67 ;
Joseph G. Gogs-
well, 106 ; K. Goligher (now
Mrs Donaldson), 135 ;
Henry C.
Gordon, 106 ; Kathe Gundle, 10
Frau Helga Hagen, 245, 262,
313 ; Dr P. S. Haley, 151 ;
Hanussen, 78, 213-14 ; Frau Hes-
sel, 13 ; Mrs Holland. 288 ; D. D.
Home, 18, 48, 105, 106-10, 223-4 ;
Wm. Hope, 22, 34, 35, 45-6, 48,
111-2, 207-8
Frau Lujza Ignath, 12
Elizabeth K., 76-7 ; Mme Kahl,
140 ;
" Katie King," 244 ; Fru
Ingeborg Kober (nee Dahl), 21, 51,
80, 96, 144, 148, 245 ;
Kraus, 116 ;
Frau Kriiger, 79
Mile Laplace, 142. 261, 312;
Mrs Leonard, 2. 3, 7, 18, 22, 29,
35, 51, 71, 81, 83, 84, 85, 102-4,
128, 141, 153, 169, 189, 194, 229-36,
280-85, 299-308, 305
Margery, 16, 31, 151, 160-7, 207,
212, 245, 262 ;
Mary M., 31, 294 ;
J. V. Mansfield, 106 ; Mrs Mason,
31 ;
Mirabelli, 226 ; The Misses
Moore, 149 ; Mme Morel, 139 ;
J. J. Morse, 16
T. Neumann, 77, 158 ; J. R.
Newton, 106
S. Ossowiecki, 137, 141, 170, 189,
213
Paist, 106 ; E. Palladino, 294 ;
L. Papp, 245, 312 ; Mrs Perriman,
167 ; Mrs Piper, 50-1, 92, 178 ;
H. Poesl-Eichheim (H. P.), 12, 14,
94 ; Miss Powell, 105 ; Sonia P.,
168
.Mrs Estdle Roberts, 90, 292
Rudi Schneider, 8, 15, 23, 30, 32,
51, 80, 83, 92, 96, 116, 117, 134,
136, 151, 181, 188, 189, 194, 214,
227, 249, 264, 286, 296; Frau
Silbert, 13, 79, 94, 95, 168 ; Mrs
Upton Sinclair, 140 ; Mrs Staats,
106
Mrs Thompson, 90 ; Cornelia
Torok, 79
G. Valiantine, 15, 28, 91 ; Ruth
Vaughan, 212 ;
Fridolin, Kordon-
Veri, 79 ; Frau Vollhardt, 116
Frieda Weissl, 78 ; Fru Sophie
Wereide, 102 ; Aaron Wilkinson,
320 ; Mrs Willett, 288 ; Frau
Barat Winkler (the " masked
medium "), 79 ; Wolf, 10, 13, 32,
93, 94, 213, 245, 262, 313
Memory, in relation to Psychical
Research, 298
Meyer, Professor, 118
Mirabelli, medium, 226
Mitchell, Dr T. W., research com-
mittee, 296
Monition, A., 239, 240
Monkey, dream of, 236-7. 240-1,
244
Moore, J. C, 249
Moore, J. E., 251
Moore, The Misses, mediums, 149
Morel, Mme, medium, 139
Morse, J. J., medium, 16
Murphy, Gardner, 11, 140
Murray, Professor Gilbert, 11, 287,
288"
Myers Memorial Fund and Lecture,
23, 51, 122
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, Bulletin V, reviewed,
117-120, 183
328 Index to Vol. XXVIII
National Laboratory for Psychical
Research, closed, 277 ; apparatus,
etc., transferred to University of
London Council for Psychical In-
vestigation, 277
Neumann, Therese, 77, 158
Newton, Isabel, obituary of Mrs C.
B. Fernald, 155 ; on half-time, 277
Newton, J. R., medium, 106
Nineteenth Century, The, Dec. 1932,
31
Nisbet, Mrs E. T., death of, 195
Northcote, Rev H., 75 ;
—, death of,
195
Notes on Sittings, Grondahl, 102-4
Notzing, A. von Schrenck, Die Ent-
wicklung des Okkultismus zur Para-
psych ologie in Deutschland, re-
viewed, 115-6 ; Die Phdnomene des
Mediums Rudi Schneider, reviewed,
134; 181
Ossowiecki, S., medium, 137, 141 ;
"The clairvoyance of," 170; 189,
213
Osty, Dr Eugene, Collaboration with
Society in Investigation of Rudi
Schneider, 23, 51; Third Mvers
Memorial Lecture, 23, 116, 119,
120, 122, 188-9, 194, 210 ;
" Tele-
pathic Spontanee et Transmission
de Pensce experimentale," Revue
Metapsi/chique, reviewed, 139-144,
158
Paist, medium, 106
Palladino, E., medium, 294
Papp, L., medium, 245, 312
Parrv, Miss G. M.. 237
Patten, Henry J., 123
Perception, Normal and Supernor-
mal, 316
Perriman, Mrs, medium, 167
Personal Control, gramophone record
of, 2, 83, 189
Photography, supernormal, 45-6 ;
111-12
Picture Tests, Reports of, 280, 299
Piddington, J. G., Case of haunting
investigated, 21 ;
" Precognition
and Psychoanalysis," 240-1
Pigou, Professor, 288
Piper, Mrs, and Trust Funds, 50-1
;
92, 178
Pcesl-Eichheim, H., medium, 12, 14,
04
Pogson, Mary E., The Art of Water
Finding, reviewed, 150
Pollard, F. E., 179
Possibility of Proving Survival, on
the, Rhine, 35 ; Saltmarsh, 86-9
;
Rhine, 125-128; Irving, 128;
Saltmarsh, 175-9
Powell, Miss, medium, 105
Precognition, the evidence for, 35 ;
and psychoanalysis, 204-6, 219-21,
240-1, '244; cases of, 244; and
time, 221-3, 242-3 ; of death,
249-50 ; of a present, 250-1 ; in
general, 259-61 ;
experiments in,
35, 270-86 ; response to Broadcast
Talk on, 298
Premonitory Dreams, 3, 35, 85, 216,
236, 240/241, 244, 249, 250, 251
Price, Harry, 80, 93, 117-120, 277 ;
Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book,
reviewed, 149-150
Prince, Dr W. F., 92, 315 ; review by,
160-7, 182-3 ; death of, 276
Prophecy versus Perspicacity, by
Count Solovovo, 67-74
Proskauer, Julian J., Sp>ook Crooks,
reviewed, 148-149
Proving Survival, on the possibility
of, 35-45, 86-9, 125-130, 175-9, 200
Proxy Case extending over Twelve
Sittings with Mrs Leonard, A,
229-236
Przibram, Professor, 118
Psychical Research and the Writ-
ten Word (Chant), 99 ;
B.B.C.,
Talks on, 170, 186 ;
Memory in
relation to, 298
Psychoanalysis, and precognition,
204-6, 240-41
i//uX"'' a ' "Epevyai reviewed, 184
Quantitative Study of Trance Per-
sonalities, The, 248, 286
Quarterly Transactions of the British
College of Psychic Science Ltd.,
31, 91, 135, 167, 212, 244-5, 312
Querschnitt, Der, Dec. 1932, 94
Race, dream of the result of a, 216-18,
241, 242, 244
Ramsay, Mrs M., 239-240
Rayleigh, Lord, F.R.S., Suggestion
for line of research with Rudi
Schneider, 23 ; —,
" Immunity to
Fire," 223-4
Research Committee, 296
Index to Vol. XXVIII 329
Reviews. Books :
James Thayer Addison, Life Be-
yond Death in the Beliefs of Man-
kind, 150
Maurice Barbanell, The Trumpet
Shall Sound, 292
A. Trevor Barker, The Complete
Works of H. P. Blavatsky, 210-1
G. C. Barnard, The Supernormal,
181
B. Bavink, The Anatomy of
Modern Science, 7-9
Th. Bestermann, Mrs Annie Be-
sant, A Modern Prophet, 290-2 ; In-
quiry into the Unknown, A B.B.C.
Symposium, 310
Ernest . Bozzano, Polyglot med-
iumship (Xenoglossy), 89-91
P. Thomas Bret, Precis de Meta-
psychique, 47
Whately Carington, The Death
of Materialism, 131-3
Hereward Carrington, A Primer
of Psychical Research, 47 ; Houdini
and Conan Doyle, 148-9
Geraldine Cummins, The Road to
Immortality, 75 ; The Great Days of
Ephesus, 182
Ludwig Dahl, Dod ! Hvor er din
Brodd ? 149
Shaw Desmond, We do not Die, 321
Hans Driesch, Parapsychologie,
29-30 ;
Psychical Research, 159
Rev. V. G. Duncan, Proof, 149
J. W. Dunne, An Experiment
with Time, 270-4
Bernard L. M. Ernst, Houdini
and Conan Doyle, 148-9
Nandor Fodor, Encyclopaedia of
Psychic Science, 207
Sir James George Frazer, The
Fear of the Dead in Primitive Re-
ligion, 150
Sigmund Freud, New Introduc-
tory Lectures on Psycho- Analysis,
224-6
John William Graham, Psychical
Experiences of Quaker Ministers,
179-181
Malcolm Grant, A New Argu-
ment for God and Survival, 293
J. V. H., Death's Door Ajar, 292
Reginald Hegy, A Witness
Through the Centuries, 292
J. A. Hill, Letters from Sir Oliver
Lodge, 116-7
J. Arthur Hill, Experiences with
Mediums, 320.
Dr Karel Kuchynka, Problemy
Metapsychologie, 209
Dr Alfred Lechler, Das Rdtsel von
Konnersreuth im Lichte eines neuen
Falles von Stigmatisation, 76-7
Sir Oliver Lodge, My Philosophy,
145-7
Wallis Mansford, Bridging Two
Worlds, 293
Dr A. Freiherr von Schrenck-
Notzing, Die Entwicklung des Ok-
kultismus zur Parapsychologie in
Deutschland, 115-6; Die Phdno-
mene des Mediums Rudi Schneider,
134
Mary E. Pogson, The Art of
Water Finding, 150
Harry Price, Leaves from a Psy-
chisfs Case-Book, 149-150
Julian J. Proskauer, Spook
Crooks, 148-9
T. Brailsford Robertson, A Note
Book, 112-4
Mrs W. H. Salter, Evidence for
telepathy ; the Response to a Broad-
cast Request for Cases, 311
Ann Montfort Symns, Dreams
that Come True : The Solution, 182
Sarah E. Taylor, Fox-Taylor
Automatic Writings, 1869-1892, 134
Herbert Thurston, S. J., The
Church and Spiritualism, 147-8
Reviews. Periodicals
:
The British Journal of Medical
Psychology, 91
Bulletin [of the] Boston Society
for Psychic Research, 92, 182-3,
262 ; Bulletin du Conseil de
Recherches Metapsychiques de Bel-
gique, 32, 136, 168, 213, 312;
Bulletin V [of thej National
Laboratory of Psychical Research,
117-120, 183
The Hibbert Journal, 294
Journal of the American Society
for Psychical Research, 16, 31,
92-93, 120, 135-6, 150-1, 167, 212,
226, 245, 294
Journal of the British Society of
Dowsers, 293
La Ricerca Psichica (formerly
Luce e Ombra), 15, 95-6, 136, 152,
168, 183, 214, 246, 262
330 Index to Vol. XXVIII
The Nineteenth Century, 31
Proceedings of the American
Society for Psychical Research
(vols xx-xxi), 160-167
'ifvxiKal "Epeirj/cu, 184
Quarterly Transactions of the
British College of Psychic Science
Ltd., 31, 91, 135, 167, 212, 244-5,
312 ; Der Querschnitt, 94-5
Revue Metapsychique, 9-10, 31-
32, 93, 120, 136, 167, 212-13, 261,
312
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie,
10, 32, 95, 152, 168, 214, 246, 313
Zeitschrft fur Parapsychologie,
10-14, 32, 93-94, 151-2, 168, 183,
213, 245, 312-13; Zeitsch rift fur
Metapsychische Forschung, 77-80,
95, 152, 213-14, 245-6, 262, 313
Revue Metapsychique, reviewed, 9-10,
31, 93, 120, 136, 167. 212-3, 261,
312
Rhine, Dr J. B., The Possibility of
Proving Survival, 35, 86-8, 125-8,
175-9 ;
appointed Research Officer
to Boston Society for Psychical Re-
search, 315
Richet, Professor Charles, 89, 90, 120,
209-10 ; La Grande Esperance, re-
viewed, 211
Rickman, John, obituary of Dr San-
dor Ferenczi, 124-5
Roberts, C. E. Bechhofer, 46 ; review
by, 210-11 ;
" Dream of the Result
of a Race," 241 ; Intensive In-
vestigation of Telepathy, 287
Roberts, Mrs Estelle (speaking in
a foreign tongue), 90 ; 292
Robertson, T. Brailsford, A Note
Book, reviewed, 112-4
Roheim, Dr Geza, 124
Ronald, Lady Landon, 67
Rose, Major Rampling, Investigation
of Supernormal Photography, 22, 34,
45-6, 111, 264
Salter, W. H., statements at the
Annual Meeting, 50-2, 203 ; reviews
by, 182, 207-10 ;
acting Hon. Trea-
surer, 195
Salter, Mrs W. H., reviews by, 29-30,
47, 211; paper, "Difficulties of
Investigation," 83, 91 ;
— and
B.B.C., 170, 310, 311 ; consultant
investigator, 195 ;
" Telepathy and
the Listener-in," 236, 237-9 ; 253-
8, 296 ; Note on " Report of a
Picture Test," by W. Rev S. Ir-
ving, 284, 309 ; Evidence for Tele-
pathy, 298, reviewed, 311 ; 316
Saltmarsh, H. F., Analysis of cases of
Apparent Precognition, prepared,
22; 35-45; 125-128; reviews by,
131-3, 290, 321; "On the Possi-
bility of Proving Survival," 86-9,
175-9, 200, 204-6 ;
" Precognition
and Psycho-analysis," 219 - 20 ;
" Cases of Apparent Precogni-
tion," 221-3
Schietekat, Henry, 156-7
Schneider, Rudi, 8, 15, 23, 30, 32, 51,
80, 83, 92, 96, 116; in Vienna,
117-20, 134, 136; 151, 188,
189, 194, 214, 227, 249, 264, 286,
296
Seligman, Professor C. G., and B.B.C.,
170, 186, 310
Shackleford, Florence, 251
Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, President of
Honour, 19 ; reviews by, 92, 182-3
Silbert, Frau, medium, 13, 79, 94, 95
Sinclair, Mrs Upton, 140
Sittings, Notes on, 7, 102-4 ; with
D. D. Home, 106-10; reports of,
53 and 130 ; 280-286 ; 299-309 ;
proxy, 229-36
Sleepwalking, and Telepathy, 265-70
Soal, S. G., elected to Council, 23 ;
reviews by, 139-44, 158, 189, 270,
273
Society of Psychical Research : Ac-
counts, 2, 24-7, 50, 82, 122, 154,
155, 190-3, 196 ;
Associates, Hon.,
election of, 66, 202, 203 ; —, resolu-
tion suspending election of, re-
scinded for persons between 1 8 and
25 years, 98, 195 ; —,
student, 195 ;
Auditors, re-election of, 52, 204 ;
Council, annual reports, 19-23, 187-
96 ; —,
Committees, election of, 21,
66, 203, 296, 297 ;
—,
co-optations
to, 28, 82, 228, 229 ; —, elections
to, 23, 82 ; donations to, 51, 123,
204, 264, 277 ; —,
gifts to, 18 ; —
,
meetings of, 2, 18, 34, 66, 82, 98,
122, 138, 154, 186, 202-3, 228, 229,
248, 276, 297, 315 ; —, re-election
of, 52, 204 ; —,
resignations from,
195 ; donations to, for printing, 51,
187, 264 ; for research, 51-2, 187,
204, 264 ; financial situation, 19,
Index to Vol. XXVIII 331
50-2, 187 ;
Investigation Officer,
appointed, 122, 195 ; —,
abroad,
264 ; —,
resignation of, 296 ; In-
vestigators, consultant, election of,
122, 195 ; —,
resignation of, 229 ;
Journal, change of editorship, 229 ;
Jubilee, celebration of, 19 ;
library,
the, 23, 194 ;
meetings of, 34, 50,
53, 57, 83, 99, 123, 170, 203, 229,
236, 248, 249, 278, 298, 316 ; —
,
lists of, 28, 196 ; —, Annual Gen-
eral, 50-2, 203-4 ; —,
General, 95,
121-2, 248, 275 ;
members, corre-
sponding, election of, 66, 203
;
members, deaths of, 28, 124, 138,
155, 195, 276, 278 ;
membership of,
195 ;
Myers Memorial Lecture, 23,
121-2, 194, 196 ;
office, changes in
the, 277 ;
officers, election of, 195,
203 ; past and future, 20-1 ; Presi-
dent, election of, 66, 195 ; —, re-
election of, 203 ;
publications, 28,
196 ;
research, 21, 187, 194, 296 ;
research organisation, 21, 296 ;
Treasurer, resignation and appoint-
ment of, 195
Sollas, Hertha B. C, " Dream of a
Monkey, 236-7
Solovovo, Count Perovsky-Petrovo,
67 ; reviews by, 76-7, 157-8
Spirit or supernormal photographv,
22, 34, 45-6, 111, 264
Spontaneous phenomena, cases in-
vestigated, 21, 187
Staats, Mrs, medium, 106
Stansfield, C. E., 123
Stansfield, Miss, 123
Statham, Paul B., " A Telepathic Im-
pression," 156-7
Strutt, Admiral the Hon. A. C, co-
opted to Council, 28
Supernormal, occurrences in classical
antiquity, 75 ; —,
photography,
45-6; 111-12
Survival, on the possibility of prov-
ing, 35-45 ; 86-9; 125-130; 175-9;
200 ; belief in, 287-9 ; and tele-
pathy, 158
Symns, Ann Montfort, Dreams that
Come True, reviewed, 182
Taylor, Mr, 256
Taylor, Sarah E. L., Fox-Taylor
Automatic Writings, reviewed, 134
Telepathy, 31, 158, 245 ;
long-dis-
tance, 22 ;
positive implications
of, 57-64 ;
impression of help
required, 156-7 ; and survival,
158 ;
speculations about, 197-200,
321 ; and the listener-in, 236
;
or coincidence ?, 258-9 ; and sleep-
walking, 265-70 ;
reciprocal, 278 ;
intensive investigation of, 287 ;
evidence for, 298, 311, 321
Tenhaeff, Dr. 214, 226
Tennant, Mrs B. V., 123
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, 83; 123;
co-opted to the Council, 229 ; "A
Proxy Case," 229-36
Thomas, Ernest S., review by, 47-8 ;
" Telepathy and Survival," 158 ;
" Precognition and Psychoanaly-
sis," 220-1; 277; '"The Fire Walk,"
278 ;
" Belief in Survival," 287
" The Thomas Case," 81, 123, 264
Thompson, Mrs, medium, 90
Thurston, Herbert, S.J., The Church
and Spiritualism, 147-8, 183
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, re-
viewed, 10, 32, 95, 152, 168, 214,
246, 313
Time and Precognition, 221, 242-3
Tischner, Dr, Telepathy and Clair-
voyance, 62
Torok, C, medium, 79
Trance Personalities, the Quantita-
tive Study of, 248 ; 286-7
Treasurer, Hon., resignation of, 195
Trethewy, A. W., 105
Truth about Spiritualism., The, Bech-
hofer Roberts, 46
Tudor, 0. S., death of, 195
Tyrrell, G. N. W., " Time and Pre-
cognition," 221-3, 242-3 ;
" Pre-
cognition," 259-61 ; review by,
270-4 ;
" Normal and Supernormal
Perception," 316
University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, instituted,
277
Valiantine, George, 15, 28, 91
Vaughan, Ruth, medium, 212
Veri, F. K., medium, 79
Vollhardt, Frau, medium, 116
Wales, Hubert, " Dream of the Re-
sult of a Race," 242
Walker, May C, 226
Walker, Nea, co-opted to Council,
28 ; Hon. Editor Journal, 229 ;
332 Index to Vol. XXVIII
Note on a Report of a Picture Test,
302
Walther, Dr Gerda, 119
Warcollier, R., 140
Watkins, K. E., reviews by, 148-9
Wayfarer, The, 216
Weissl, Frieda, medium, 78
Wereide, Frau Sophie, medium, 102-4
White, S. M., "A 'Fire Walking'
Ceremony in Fiji," 170-5
Wilkinson, Aaron, 320
Willett, Mrs, medium, 288
Williams, John H., 216-8, 240-1, 244
Wilson, S. R. W-, reviews bv, 89-90,
292
Winkler, Frau, " masked medium,"
79
Wolf, medium, 10, 13, 32, 93, 94, 213,
245 262 313
Wood' Christopher, 123, 189
Woolley, Dr V. J., resignation of, 21
Word association tests, 194, 288-9
Wunderle, Professor G., 157-8
Young, C. A., 217
Zeitschrift fur metapsychische For-
schung, reviewed, 77-80, 95, 152,
213-4, 245-6, 262, 313
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, re-
viewed, 10-14; 32; 93-4; 151-2;
168, 183, 213, 245, 312-3
