{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V30 1937-38","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v30_1937-38.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V30 1937-38","mylang":"de"}
Society
JOURNAL
OF THE
for Psychical Research
VOL. XXX
1937—1938
For Private Circulation amons; Menibers
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.i
A II rights reserved
CONTENTS
PAGE
Report on a Series of Sittings with Miss Frances Campbell
by C. V. C. Herbert ------- 2
Annual Report of the Council for 1936 - - - - 19
Appeal - -- -- -- -- -25
Statistical and Other Technicalities in Psychical Research ;
by W. H. Salter ------- 34
Notes on Recent Research -------37
A Repetition of Dr J. B. Rhine's Work in Extra-Sensory
Perception ;
by S. G. Soal ------ 55
Instances of Apparent Clairvoyance ;
by C. V. C. Herbert - 58
The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon ;
by Dr H. Godwin
Baynes - -- -- -- -- gg
An Ostensibly Precognitive Dream Unfulhlled - - - 82
A Note on Tests for Random Distribution ;
by S. G. Soal - 83
Some Recent Investigations Carried Out by the Society ;
by C. V. C. Herbert ------- 86
My Experiments with J. F. Sambor ;
by Coimt Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo - ------- 87
An Experiment with Mrs Garrett, by C. V. C. Herbert - - 99
The Society's Claim for Exemption from Income Tax - - 110
Case : A New Communicator Associated with ''
Dora "
;
by Kenneth Richmond - - - - - - - 111
The Originating Mind in Evidential Trance Messages ;
by
C. Drayton Thomas ------- 126
Case of Apparent Extra-Sensory Perception in the Form of
Extra-Ocular Vision - - - - - - - 137
Annual Report of the Council for 1937 - - - - 159
Two Series of Experiments in Automatic Writing ;
by
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo - - - - 177
Case (Automatism in Finding a Lost Ruby) - - - 180
^^98485
iv Contents
-
: :"i : :
"y r page
Case : A Dre?am:S"u:ggBsting: ElanrieH iE-vidende of Survival - 182
Case : A Veridical Recurrent Dream - - - - - 197
Case : A Dream suggesting Precognition - - - - 198
From the Researcli Officer's Report : Individual Tests of
Paranormal Faculty - - - - - - - 210
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception :
I. A Note on Types of Zener Cards ----- 215
II. The Fisk Effect -------- 219
Witchcraft in the Belgian Congo ;
by Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo - ------- 230
Case : A Phantasm seen before the Death of a Family Friend 235
Case : A Study in Evidence ------ 243
Case : Communications referred to the Threat of European
War ---------- 262
Case : An Instance of Mental Automatism and Apparent
Telepathy --------- 264
Case : A Forecast by Leonard Communicators on the
European Crisis -------- 283
Case : A Dream suggesting Telepathy ----- 284
Some Early Experiments providing Apparently Positive
Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception - - - 295
New Members - 18, 50, 82, 94, 150, 158, 174, 194, 210, 230, 242,
282, 293
Meetings of the Council - 18, 51, 82, 95, 150, 158, 174, 194, 210,
230, 242, 282, 293
Meetings of the Society - 34, 52, 82, 95, 151, 152, 158, 176, 194,
195, 210, 230, 243, 262, 282, 294
Correspondence - 28, 38, 101, 123, 132, 140, 152, 167, 187, 199,
257, 274, 288
Reviews - 31, 39, 62, 90, 103, 145, 155, 190, 205, 227, 238, 260,
277, 305
Obituaries - - - - 50, 110, 126, 204, 237, 292, 294
Notices - 32, 50, 66, 94, 110, 137, 156, 174, 195, 208, 279, 293
Errata --------- 124, 192
No. 531.—Vol. XXX - Jantjaby 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 2y January, igsj, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"A REPETITION OF DR J. B. RHINE'S WORK
IN EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION"
will be read by
Mr S. G. SOAL
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.4^ p-fn., to which Members and Associates are invited.
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1937
REPORT ON A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH
MISS FRANCES CAMPBELL
By C. V. C. Herbert
The Society held a series of nine sittings with Miss Frances Camp-
bell during the early part of 1936. The sitters were the following :
Professor Broad, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Mr Kenneth
Richmond, Mrs Kenneth Richmond, Mrs Salter, Admiral Strutt,
Miss Nea Walker, " Miss Milton ", and " Dr Davison ". The two
last are pseudonyms, the real names of the sitters being, of course,
known to the Society. Dr Davison is the same as the person desig-
nated by that name in the records of the Compton Case [Walker :
Through a Stranger's Hands, p. 272, 1935]. So far as is known, none
of the sitters was previously known to Miss Campbell, who was not,
of course, given their names ;
though the possibility of her having
recognized them must not be excluded in considering the results.
Except in the case of Miss Milton's sitting, a stenographic record
was taken by Miss Horsell.
Professor Broad's sitting provides little of any evidential value.
A great many mistakes were made in the process of constructing
" communicator personahties ", but one section of the record is
worth noting as possibly showing paranormality :
Miss Campbell : Have you got two watches on you at the
moment ?
Dr Broad : Not actually on me, but I keep two watches going
and I have usually got one or the other on.
Miss Campbell : Because your father laughs about your ringing
the changes on the watches.
Dr Broad : That is quite true.
Miss Campbell : And one is a much better production than the
other.
Miss Campbell : . . . And referring to one watch he says that
it was lost for some time and then was found, and would you enquire
if ever that watch was lost or put on one side and then resurrected.
Dr Broad : Could he say which of the two watches he is referring
to ?
Miss Campbell : He is referring to the one not so valuable, that
one.
Notes by Professor Broad :
I have a good gold watch and chain, which my father would know
very well : and also a very old silver watch with no chain, which
jANtJAEY 1937 Report on Sitttings 3
is very dark and dirty on the outside. Within the last ten years I
have taken to carrying the old watch in the back pocket of my
trousers when I am wearing a pullover instead of a waistcoat. I
put on the gold one iu the evenings when I change into a suit.
The old silver watch came from the exhibition of 1862. I " resur-
rected " it when I took to wearing a pullover by day.
Another section of interest is as follows :
Miss Campbell : ... You do not hve with your mother,
because your father ["' communicator "] tells me that you do not
live with her, and I must not confuse the two houses.
Dr Broad : That is quite correct.
Miss Campbell : You are not to forget her birthday, so that it is
quite close. [Momentary pause] Not quite close, he tells me. Is it
true that you do not always remember ?
Dr Broad : I was going to say that is very good. It is the sort
of thing I do forget, and it is taken very badly if I do forget. That
is quite a good remark. I know the day but I do not always re-
member on the day.
Note by Professor Broad :
Birthday is on May 22.
This passage is not so good as the one referring to the watch, since
a great number of peoj^le forget birthdays—even of their nearest
relations : and neither passage can be called really evidential of
a paranormal faculty.
Two other points from the sitting are worth mentioning. Miss
Campbell said, Were you very nearly called JOHN ?
" Professor
Broad's note to this is, " My father always caUed me John, though
it is not my name. Other members of the family seldom or never
called me by that name." Later she said, " Your father is saying
about 10 o'clock you have some kind of hot drink, not tea, and this
man [his mother's servant] gets it for you." Professor Broad notes.
Every night at about 9 o'clock, when I am at home, he brings me a
tumbler of hot water."
Mrs Lyttelton's sitting was, if anything, poorer than Professor
Broad's. A number of christian names were given, nearly all of
which were wrong (see appendix). Mrs Lyttelton adds the following
note to the record :
" There are gleams of knowledge and imder-
standing here and there—but it is a confused sitting, and there is
nothing which could not have been gathered out of my mind."
Mr Richmond's sitting was better than either of these. A pseudo-
father personahty was developed by Miss Campbell (Mr Richmond's
father is still hving) which Mr Richmond thinks may possibly be an
attempted Myers communication. Mr Richmond did not connect
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Januaby 1937
this figure with Myers at the time ; but the idea occurred to him
later, on reading the record. Mr Richmond notes " How far my
subsequent conjectures, as I annotated the record, may be constructs
of my own, and how far they may be possible inferences from the
record itself, is a matter of sitter-psychology." My own view from
a study of the records and Mr Richmond's annotations is that the
latter alternative is the more probable. Miss Campbell's remarks
do not impress me as having any connection with Myers. Points of
interest in the sitting are as follows :
Miss Campbell mentioned an interest in " colour from electricity ",
which is correct in that Mr Richmond has worked at the carbon arc
spectrum as influenced by the use of different cores. " Colour from
electricity " is such a curious phrase that the connection is striking.
Miss Campbell said :
"... and do you go to a big building where
there is a great deal of thought and discussion and books ? I think
the membership) must be confined almost to men." Mr Richmond's
note runs :
" Possibly the Adlerian Society meetings in Medical
Society's rooms. If so books are visibly in the picture and men are
in a large majority. Membership is confined to doctors, but laymen
go as guests." Miss Campbell gives John as the name of Mr Rich-
mond's father. It is actually the second of his two christian names.
Later she says that in connection with the father " they " write up
87 years. The correct age is 86. She also suggests that Mr Rich-
mond has three children of which one is a girl and the youngest a
boy. This is correct.
Mrs Richmond's sitting was by far the most successful of the series
as regards names, seven were given, all of which were significant.
Several " communicators " were produced, the most striking being
one in connection with whom a gold cross was mentioned. This was
very significant for a friend, who died in 1926, to whom Mrs Rich-
mond had given a gold and topaz cross during her last illness. Much
of the sitting is of interest and certainly seems to contain evidence of
paranormal knowledge. Unfortunately, the relevant passages are
too long to be usefully quoted here.
With Mrs Salter, Miss Campbell was unsuccessful in producing
" communicators " ; but there were a few passages referring to the
sitter which may be evidential
:
Miss Campbell : ... And whether he is suggesting it or it is
a fact, at the moment I can't say, but he is showing me a request for
you to go abroad, or of some condition to go across water, and there
is another person there.
Note by Mrs Salter :
This suggested to me my aunt, Flora Merrifield, who is wintering
Januaey 1937 Report on Sittings 5
at Cannes. At the time of the sitting I had no intention of visiting
her, but at the beginning of March she wrote suggesting I should go
over at Easter and it now (March 7) seems hkely I may go.
Miss Campbell : There is a man speaks French to you. Do you
speak French fluently ?
Mrs Salter : Yes, I speak French pretty well.
Miss Campbell : . . . Can you gather why they speak of some
old condition with France that might have been unhappy ?
Note by Mrs Salter :
The allusion to French is appropriate. I have French ancestors
and as a child spoke French almost as well as Enghsh. My French
ancestors were royahsts and suffered heavily during the Kevolution.
Miss Campbell : And February is an anniversary in your family.
Mrs Salter : There is an anniversary in February.
Miss Campbell : And there is a birthday in March.
Mrs Salter : Yes, I know a birthday in March.
Note by Mrs Salter :
My father's birthday was in February. My husband's birthday
is in March.
The sitting contains so many mistakes that perhaps these successes
may be nothing more than lucky shots ; but the first is certainly
striking, and the other two by no means bad.
Admiral Strutt's sitting began in a very curious way, as follows :
[The medium held the sitter's hands for a minute.]
Miss Campbell : Thank you. Now I think you are going to have
no sitting unless something very powerful develops here.
Admiral Strutt : No sitting ?
Miss Campbell : You bring very negative conditions with you,
and not negative so far as data or communications are concerned
but some barrier around you.
Miss Campbell then began a " communicator " Une, suggesting a
lady closely connected with the sitter. Although Admiral Strutt did
not reject this, it was not developed ; and Miss Campbell began a long
" character reading "
—some of which, according to Admiral Strutt's
annotations, was strikingly correct. There are some 20 pages of
typewritten record, of which the last 5 are poor. Admiral Strutt
notes on page 15 :
" From here onwards there is nothing particularly
correct or of interest to me. I thought at the time the medium had
lost grip or interest."
The sitting is interesting as being so different in technique from the
others of the series ; but there is Uttle in it that can be called
evidential.
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Janxiaey 1937
With Miss Nea Walker, IVIiss Campbell was in much better form
than with the Admiral. Though she started badly—making some
serious mistakes with the usual " parent communicators ", Miss
Campbell almost immediately used the expression your group (" and
your mother joins your group . . ."). The word is used twice more
in the sitting :
" She would like you to know she is happy and
safely arrived in the group ", and " There is a group of people ; she
expects them to come forward ". Readers of Miss Walker's books
will remember that she uses the word group to denote a supposed
association of communicators. I do not think the word occurs in
any of the other sittings of the series ;
so, if Miss Campbell did not
recognise Miss Walker, it is curious that it should be appUed three
times to her.
Various " commiuiicators " are developed with considerable
success.
Miss Campbell : ... do you have an aunt called Mary ?
Miss Walker : I have not an aunt, but I know the name Mary.
Miss Campbell : A lady here who writes up the name Mary,
but her attitude is that of a relative ; knows you extremely well and
very fond of you.
Miss Walker : I know a Mary like that.
Miss Walker annotates as follows : Here begin remarks appro-
priate as from Mrs White of
'
' The Bridge " . We called her
'
' Mary ",
her 2nd name.
The Mary line is developed further, and then " Mary " introduces
another " communicator ", recently passed over :
Miss Campbell : ... Do you know a lady who has passed over
recently ; she would hke you to know she is happy and safely
arrived in the group.
Miss Walker : Do you mean Mary would hke me to ? What
sort of lady ?
Miss Campbell : She is not a relative of Mary's, but she is attached
to you very closely. I think from what Mary said she lived in your
house. Can you follow that ?
Miss Walker : Yes.
Miss Campbell : And the capacity was in some way dependent.
Miss Walker : Yes.
This, Miss Walker says, apphes to an old family servant, who
died in 1935, October. There are many other references to this
" communicator ", some of which are highly characteristic.
In connection with the same " communicator " the name John
is given, as of a person still living. There is in fact a step-brother
of the old servant who is living and is called John.
January 1937 Report on Sittings 7
In connection with Miss Walker herself, Miss Campbell says,
" And you bring with you the ability for other people to com-
municate ". As Miss Walker has specialised in Proxy Sittings,
this is, of coiirse, extremely apt, and again raises the question of the
effectiveness of her incognito.
The sitting, which ends with an accurate " character reading ",
contains a good deal of material which seems to be evidential of a
paranormal faculty.
We now come to Miss Milton's sitting—by far the most remark-
able of the series. Miss Campbell began in a conventional manner,
and soon suggested a " communicator ", who was not, however,
further developed at this stage of the sitting. It was correctly
stated that the sitter's father was no longer alive, and a suggestion
was made that her mother was still Uving.
The part of the record dealing with this is worth quoting, as
showing Miss Campbell's obvious dependence on her sitter's answers.
Miss Campbell : . . . And is it true that your mother is living ?
Miss Milton : Do you want me to answer ?
Miss Campbell : It perhaps isn't right for you to answer. I
don't know, your father points to this side and says " Mother ", and
then points back to spirit, and I am puzzled. No, your mother
isn't Uving on this earth plane, but there is something still left. I
am completely puzzled.
Here Miss Campbell was right the first time, the sitter's mother
was still alive ; but when the sitter said, " Do you want me to
answer ?
" in reply to the question " Is it true that your mother is
living ? ", it would obviously suggest to Miss Campbell that the
mother was dead. Miss Campbell then said positively that the
mother was dead, but quahfied the statement by adding, " there is
something still left—I am completely puzzled ".
It looks from this as though Miss Campbell were framing her
statements on two main sources of information : one, a spontaneous
flash of intuition—what people call a " hunch " ; the other, rational
deduction from the sitter's reactions. In this case the " hunch
"
was right and the deduction wrong. Miss Campbell allowed herself
to be guided by her reason—though she was obviously not happy
about it, and was thus led into error. If this is so, it shows that the
" medium " can sometimes be hindered instead of helped by the
sitter's answers.
The sitting now took a very curious turn. Miss Campbell turned
to Miss Horsell, the note-taker, and said :
" You know, for the first
time, I find it diSicult to give the sitting with writing. You have
been terribly good—you have never crossed the vibration before.
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1937
And it isn't you so much, as it's the spirit people—they are making
a ring round you and they want that pad put down and the pencil,
and they want just to talk to you [i.e. to Miss Milton]. I tell them
mentally they are not good for the purpose of investigation, but
they can't put up with that. ... I am sorry I can only give you
this sitting alone." Miss Horsell then had no alternative but to go.
With many sitters this would have been disastrous for our pur-
poses ;
but, very fortimately, Miss Milton is herself an expert note-
taker, and was able to get down very accurately what Miss Campbell
said.
Miss Campbell first gave some accurate details of the sitter's
family hfe, and then developed the " communicator " produced at
the beginning of the sitting. In spite of some inconsistencies. Miss
Milton took this to refer to a man " who was very fond of me and
several times asked me to marry him. This was about 16 years
ago ; he has never married. We have never quite lost touch and
meet occasionally—perhaps twice or three times a year." In
another note. Miss Milton says, " I had been thinking a little of
him latterly and had begun to wonder if he could have " passed
over " as I had not heard from him for nearly 10 months and as
3 months had gone by since I had written to him for news. On
my way to the sitting I thought to myself half jokingly, '
I ought
to have brought a letter of his and then I might get news of him !
'
I was not thinking of him when the sitting started."
Miss Campbell described the death of the " communicator " as
follows :
Miss Campbell : He was not in touch with you when he passed
out. He passed out an exhausted man, not so much an ill man.
The end was quick. You were not in contact with him. I think
there was some trouble here [showing chest], though it may not
have been known. The wish to go on hving had already gone, yet
he felt he ought to stay on.
A lot of things were said by Miss Campbell which seemed to apply
very accurately to this man :
" Was he at one time interested in writing ?
"
[He was once Dramatic Critic to a paper.]
" You have no photograph of him at all."
[This is true.]
" On earth ... he was nearly always tired and yet he worked very
hard at one time."
[The last few years this has been true.]
This following is very impressive :
Miss Campbell : Do you drive a motor ? He smiles about it.
Januaky 1937 Report on Sittings 9
Had you ever difficulty in turning round somewliere ? He quarrels
a little with your " docking ". He uses that expression, " docking
"
the car. I think perhaps you are a Uttle careless about this and
just run the car in at the side of the road. Very frequently he sat
ia that car and chatted with you while you were there.
Miss Milton notes as follows : Yes, there was a special occasion
on which, when out with him, I found myself in a very narrow lane
—
a dead end—with no room to turn. We had some amusement over
this as it took me some minutes to turn my big and clumsy car.
We would sometimes pull up just off the edge of the road and sit
and talk.
Lately, as he was in poor health, I occasionally took him out for a
country drive.
There is also the following, referring to the car :
Miss Campbell : He is interested in the possibihty of your
changing (1) the car. It is an excellent car, he says, except for
the outside (2). You do not get much acceleration (3) on it. Is
that true ? Then he laughs and says it is marvellous to have it,
you must not give it up. He is definitely against the possibility of
your giving it up. He says it may take a httle scheming, if you
make out it is of such use to others you would get it (4).
To which the sitter notes :
(1) Last September we very nearly decided to change the car.
(2) Quite true. It is an excellent old Humber with good engine
but is shabby.
(3) True, I have just had to have it decarbonised.
(4) I and my family often say that for economy we ought to
give up the car, but then we think how nice it is for my Mother to
have it and how much pleasure we can give to other people and
decide we must try to keep it on.
There are many other points, given as coming from this " com-
municator ", which were characteristic of this man, and which
seemed to show knowledge of Miss Milton's affairs.
It wiU be remembered that Miss Milton did not know that this
man was dead ; but thought he might be, as she had not heard
from him for some time. She says :
" The day after the sitting
I wrote to find out something about him and to my siirprise received
a letter from him. He was very apologetic for not having written
for so long. His reason was that he had been very ill and had been
run over, which had made letter-writing impossible for a long time."
It seems probable that if the man really had been dead, this
" communication " would have been claimed by many people as
being highly " evidential " of survival.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1937
Another section of the record is worth quoting in full as seeming
to show paranormal knowledge of Miss Milton's affairs :
Miss Campbell : There is some extraordinary thing about a will
in connection with your Father. Do you know of some will that
must be put into operation now to link up a will of your Father's ?
It hnks up this lady also. There is something your Father has
been trying to impress, something that would make an easier
working and carrying of it out. You intend to do it but do not
actually get down to it (1). . . .
There is some man you have not seen much of lately, whom you
have got out of touch with. He is something to do with carrying
out the will. This lady would be better advised to eUminate him
if possible (2).
Has the lady got quite a lot of heavy furniture ? After she
passes out they want you to be sensible and have aU the furniture
eliminated. It never will be of any use to people it is left to (3).
Although it is not advisable for the lady to move now, it would
have been so some time ago, and forcefulness and a httle hardness
on your part could have brought it through. It would have been
much better to have done it some time ago (4).
Notes by the sitter :
(1) AU absolutely true. My Mother is in process of remaking
her will whereby she can readjust the balance of certain dispositions
made in my Father's will, as circumstances of some of her family
have changed since then. Therefore her will is to " link up my
Father's will ". We are going to a new, young and able solicitor
for the first time, who should be able to help us to carry this out.
The old sohcitor who carried out my Father's will was past his work
and made things very difficult and prolonged. All this entails a
lot of work for me as all our financial affairs have to be gone into
thoroughly for the new solicitor. I have got partially through it but
never seem to have leisure to " get down to it " and finish things off.
(2) True. We have been lately regretting the appointment of
one of my Mother's and Father's Trustees with whom we have lately
got out of touch. We have said we wish we could get rid of him
—
but of course we cannot do this.
(3) Absolutely true. My Mother has a lot of large and very
valuable furniture which is to be equally divided between her
children. Much of it may prove difficult to deal with and we have
lately been discussing the advisability (when the time comes) of
selhng a great part of it and dividing the proceeds.
(4) True. We are constantly regretting that we did not move
out of our present large house when my Father died. We thought
Janitaey 1937 Report on Sittings 11
at the time it would be rather a wrench for my Mother, who has
lived there all her married life, and out of consideration for her we
stayed on. We find the house too large and a constant trouble to
keep up. As my Mother is very elderly now it is rather too late to
think of facing the move with its upheaval.
]\Ir Richmond, who has studied the record of this sitting, refers
to the " commmiicator " as follows : "I think the man friend in
this sitting represents the best—or purest—example I know of
coromunicator-impulse referable to the medium's mind alone and
making use of apparently telepathic data from the sitter."
The remaining sitting to be considered is Dr Davison's. The
first " communicator " to be produced was one " Wilham ", for
whom the initial H was also given. Dr Davison cannot place him
at all. Next comes a curious passage :
Miss Campbell : . . . And did you at one time have something
to do with things going away ; there's water, beside the sea, and
watching a lot of stuff coming in or watching it going out.
Dr Davison : A lot of stuff by the sea 1
Miss Campbell : Yes.
Dr Davison : I don't know quite what you mean. A lot of water
coming in ?
Miss Campbell : No, no, material or people going in or out by
the sea, many years ago, something you used to do. Lots of little
journeys on the sea. And you used to inspect or watch something
over a short period, and there is a sea captain knew you quite
well, but again only in passing.
Dr Davison notes :
" All this strikes me as suggesting merchant
service—short trips and loading and imloading cargo, and in that
sense does not apply to me. But I was in the Navy for 10 years
before the War, but not in the War.
Later, iVIiss Campbell said, " There is something very important
about naval conditions. If he [' A man . .
.' (who) '
. . . wants to
tell you many things . . .'] were to talk to you about naval condi-
tions, would you understand them ?
" To which Dr Davison, who-
is a very cautious sitter, repHed : "I might.'"
Another " communicator " was produced :
Miss Campbell : ... I think he is a very close relative. His
underHp protrudes a httle bit, definitely, and the nose is slightly
prominent (1) ; and he has a ring that has some significance (2)..
It is not in his possession now. Has some words or a crest on it
that would be known, and he takes out a watch and that is in
existence now, but skips some one—almost like a third generation.
—skips the second, and the third has got it (3).
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1937
Dr Davison : Yes, so the owner of the watch is the first genera-
"tion ?
Miss Campbell : Yes.
Notes by sitter :
(1) I cannot place him.
(2) CUche.
(3) I have a watch that was presented to my grandfather (in-
scribed) and came to me—the 3rd generation and skipped the 2nd.
The following is curious and interesting :
Miss Campbell : You are very hke a grandmother ; if you had
a much more prominent nose, you would be very hke the old lady
who is here ; the same expression in your eyes as she has. . . .
To which Dr Davison notes :
" This is true, there is a remarkable resemblance."
Now comes a " communicator " of very great interest
:
Miss Campbell : ... Can you place a friend who passed out
tragically ? (1) Unfortunately he is in rather an unhappy condi-
tion.
Dr Davison : Try and hold on to him.
Miss Campbell : Each time he has made a desperate effort, and
knows you have tried to help, since he passed over.
Dr Davison : Can you tell me anything about the tragedy ?
Miss Campbell : It is something that shocked him in the extreme,
which has injured other people (2). Can you understand that ?
Dr Davison : Yes.
Sitter's notes :
(1) Cf. the Compton Sitting. " Through a Stranger's Hands."
(2) Actually Compton's death did not injure anyone.
After this there is a good deal of material about the same " com-
municator " which does not apply to Compton. Then comes the
following :
Miss Campbell : And although in a sense I think he was well
known, yet he didn't make many friends (1). He seemed to regard
you as one of his oldest (2) and best friends. You have something
in your house belonging to him (3), something you had before he
passed over, many years before.
Dr Davison : Yes.
Miss Campbell : It was something he had given you.
Dr Davison : Yes, what ?
Miss Campbell : It stands on something ; it isn't of use. Can
you follow that ?
Dr Davison : Yes. ,
.
Sitter's notes :
January 1937 Report on Sittings 13:
(1) True.
(2) Not oldest, for I had not known him more than about 5 or
6 years.
(3) The only thing I had that belonged to him was a picture he
gave me.
Later Miss Campbell said :
" And who is G ? Can you place G,
because he writes up G ?
" Dr Davison notes that G is the correct
initial.
In connection with the same " communicator ", we get the
following :
Miss Campbell : ... Not the honour of position that I have
had but the affection and respect in which I was held has helped
me through this difficult time. Can you understand that ?
Dr Davison : Is that what he says ?
Miss Campbell : Yes.
Dr Davison notes :
" I hke this. It is almost characteristic."
Later
:
Miss Campbell : . . . But your friend's death was a violent one^
can you place that ? (1)
Dr Davison : Yes.
Miss Campbell : He has never described it. The guide would
help him if he could.
Dr Davison : Could he tell us what sort of a death it was ?
Miss Campbell : It wasn't quick, although it was violent. Can
you understand him choking in the throat and gasping ? (2)
Dr Davison : Yes.
Sitter's notes :
(1) Yes.
(2) He drowned—suicide.
There is a lot more about the same " communicator ", including
many inaccuracies and mistakes, and then, right at the end. Miss
Campbell said :
" But as this friend left, he put his hand to his head^
and said that was the trouble, and he walked away."
To this, Dr Davison notes :
" His head was his great trouble."
What are we to conclude from the study of these nine sittings ?
Are they evidential of survival ? Far from it. The information
about Dr Compton might have come from the departed spirit of
the suicide, but then it might have come from Dr Davison's mind ;
whereas the information about Miss Milton's friend could not
possibly have come from the departed spirit of the " communicator
"
because, as it turned out in the end, the friend was alive all the
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Januaey 1937
time, although at the sitting Miss Milton thought he might be dead.
The sitting certainly illustrates the great danger of accepting
" communications " as genuine messages from the dead, merely
because the " medium " can produce information which it seems
impossible that she could normally have known.
This brings us to the much more difficult question of the value
of the sittings as evidence of extra-sensory perception on the part
of Miss Campbell. Does so-called telepathy between sitter and
" medium " really take place ? Can Miss Campbell read the sitter's
mind, other than by conscious and unconscious deduction from
sensory perception of the sitter's appearance and response to
emotional stimuli ? How far can the results obtained be accounted
for by chance coincidence ?
These questions are very difficult to answer. It seems to me
that all that can be safely said is the following : It certainly looks
as if Miss Campbell possessed a faculty, varying very greatly in
intensity as between sitter and sitter, and as between incident and
incident—a faculty of obtaining information from the unconscious
mind of the sitter in a manner not normally explainable. Unless
appearances are deceptive, the existence of this faculty should be
clearly demonstrable by experiments employing a sufficiently
subtle technique. This apparent faculty is so much in evidence in
this short series of only nine sittings, that if it is really as extra-
sensory as it would seem to be, it is curious that no one has ever
been able to demonstrate it beyond reasonable doubt. It may be
that confirmation of the important work of Pratt with Mrs Garrett
may provide such demonstration. But experience shows that
-apparently " cast-iron " experiments so often prove to be un-
repeatable by subsequent investigators that it would be rash to
make predictions in this as in any branch of our illusive subject.
C. V. C. Herbert.
APPENDIX
Sittings with Miss Frances Campbell
References to names of persons.
In the notes to nine sittings, names of persons are mentioned
thirty times, as follows :
Jaotaby 1937 15
Sitter , Sight or Wrong
Dr Broad Ckarles
John
wrong
right
Miss Walker Mary
John
Jack
right
right
right
Mrs Kickmond Arthur
Ann or Annie
William
Charles
Harry
T* *
11
Bill
Jack
right
right
right
right
right
1 j_
right
right
Mrs Salter John
Jack
right
wrong
Admiral Strutt (no names)
" Dr Davison
"
Wilham
Gerald
wrong
wrong
Mr Kickmond George
John
Jack
Ehzabeth
right
right
wrong
wrong
Mrs Lyttelton Charles
Mary
John
Jack
George
jVlfl T(Ta Tpi",
Mackenzie
Connie
Emmie or Emily
Edward
wrong
wrong
wrong
wrong
right
wrong
wrong
wrong
wrong
" Miss Milton
"
(no names)
i.e. of 30 names, 15 are right and 15 wrong.
298435
16 'Jourkal of So6id:y for. F.^y^^ January 1937
List of nan3.>is mentioaed :
•
Name Number of times mentioned Right Wrong
Jack 5 2 3
John 5 4 1
Charles 3 1 2
George 2 2
Mary 2 1 1
William 2 1 1
Ann. or Annie 1 1
Arthur 1 1
Bill 1 1
Connie 1 1
Edward 1 1
Ehzabeth 1 1
Emmie or Emily 1 1
Gerald 1 1
Harry 1 1
Mackenzie 1 1
Margaret 1 1
30 15 15
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 532.—Vol. XXX February 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDA Y, 24th February, igjy, at 3.30 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the l6th January ig37, and already circulated
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business
of the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present. Tea,
to which Members and Associates are invited, will be served after the
Meeting.
General
WILL BE HELD IN
B
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1937
NEW MEMBERS
[Elected on 16 December 1936)
Canziani, Miss Estella, 3 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
Pillai, R. B., c/o Messrs Thomas Cook & Son, Ltd., Berkeley Street,
London, W. 1.
Whitaker, Mrs J. J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
[Elected on 20 January 1937)
Barrow, Mrs Ethel M., 40 Weoley Park Eoad, Selly Oak, Birming-
ham.
Malone, Dr Wilfred, 1 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E. 21.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 347th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 16 December 1936, at 3 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr Gerald Heard, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr
W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N.,
and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The following Resolutions were moved and carried unanimously :
The Council accepts with regret Sir Oliver Lodge's resignation as
a Trustee of the Research Endowment Fund, and wishes to
express to him their thanks for all the work done by him as
Trustee.
The Council appoints Professor C. D. Broad and Mr W. H. Salter
Trustees of the Endowment Fund in the place of Sir Oliver
Lodge and the late Mr Sydney C. Scott.
That Messrs Scott, Bell & Co. be requested to act for the Council
in the matter of the new. appointment.
It was agreed to hold the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday,
24 February 1937, at 3.30 p.m.
The 348th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 20 January 1937, at 3.45 p.m.
Tebkuary 1937 Meetings of the Council 19
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Mr W. H. Salter,
Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt and the Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Report of the Council for 1936 was considered, and adopted
as amended.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1936
(1) The Council feel that they cannot proceed to give an account
of the last year's work without referring to the grievous losses
sustained by the Society during the year through death. The
Society has lost in Mrs Sidgwick one who, by her active partici-
pation in the Society's work from the very earliest days, occupied a
unique position among us, having, in the words of the brief notice
recording her death in the Journal for February 1936, " left an
enduring mark both on psychical research as a study and on the
S.P.R. as an organisation for pursuing it." Heavy also were the
losses sustained by the Society through the death of Mr Everard
Feilding, who was formerly for many years a member of Council
and Hon. Secretary of the Society, and continued till his death to
be actively interested in its work, and Mr Sydney Scott, a Council
member, who very generously on many occasions gave his advice
and assistance to the Society on legal matters without charge to our
funds. Other losses to the Society by death include Miss Mehan
Stawell, an Hon. Associate, Mr E. S. Thomas, Dr Eleanor C. Lodge,
the Rev. Dr Percy Dearmer, Miss Ahce Balfour, Prof. J. J. Grundy,
Mr F. D. Perrott and Mr Joseph Whitaker, one ofour oldest members.
(2) Organisation of Research. The Research Committee, ap-
pointed in 1934, continues to meet regularly, and its membership
has recently been increased. It now consists of the following
members : Mr Whately Carington, Mr Eric Cuddon, Mr Oliver
Oatty, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Mr Gerald Heard, Lord Charles Hope;
the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr
Kenneth Richmond, Mrs W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell,
with Mr Herbert, who has now been appointed Research Officer,
as Secretary.
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 193T
(3) PrincijMl Lines of Research. The investigations conducted by-
Mr Tyrrell into extra-sensory perception, by Mr Whately Carington
into the quantitative study of trance personalities, and by ]\Ir
Kenneth Richmond into the psychology of Mrs Leonard's trance
communications have been actively pursued, and papers reporting
the progress of these investigations have been presented to the
Society. In addition, a series of sittings has been held with Miss
Frances Campbell, a medium with whom several of our members
have already had sittings ; also another series with Mrs Garrett.
(4) Spontaneous Phenomena. The work of investigating spon-
taneous phenomena of all kinds has been continued. It is intended
to print in the Journal from time to time notes by the Research
Officer and other investigators as to the work being carried out by
them, and it is hoped that this will enable members to keep in
closer touch with the research work of the Society.
(5) Presidency. The Council were so fortunate as to secure Pro-
fessor Broad's consent to his re-election to the Presidency for a
second term of office.
(6) Changes in the Council. To fill vacancies caused by death, the
Council have aj)pointed Admiral Strutt and Lord Charles Hope a&
elected members of Council.
(7) New Honorary Associates. Mr Kenneth Richmond and Dr
W. H. C. Tenhaeff of Utrecht have been elected Hon. Associates.
(8) Donations to the Society. In May 1936, a member who wished
to remain anonymous, announced his intention, in lieu of his sub-
scription, to purchase £100 2|% Consols in the Society's name, tO'
be treated as capital, adding that this precedent might serve tO'
crystallize half-formed intentions to leave a small legacy, which
owing to the trouble of a codicil and the reluctance to alter a Will,,
might not eventually materiahze. This generous example has been
followed by the Hon. Treasurer who has invested £100 for the
Society's benefit, and it is hoped that other members may be wilhng
to follow this helpful and practical course.
The Council wish once again to place on record their appreciation
of the great assistance which the anonymous donation of £1000,
received in 1934, has been in enabhng them to carry out an active
programme of research.
(9) Endoumient Fund for Psychical Research. By her Will Mrs
Sidgwick bequeathed to the Endowment Fund for Psychical
Research the sum of £1000, free of duty.
In December Sir Oliver Lodge retired from the Trusteeship of the
Endowment Fund, and the Council appointed Professor C. D.
Broad and Mr W. H. Salter in his place and that of the late Mr
Pebeuaey1937 Annual Report of the Goimcil for 1935 21
Sydney C. Scott. The Council have expressed to Sir Ohver Lodge
thanlfs for the services rendered by him as Trustee.
(10) General Finance. The new Lease of the Society's premises
was duly executed on the 15th October 1936, and the repairs re-
quired by the landlords on the termination of the old Lease have
l)een carried out. As stated in the Annual Report for 1935, the rent
rmder the new Lease will be somewhat higher than imder the old,
and the cost of carrying out the repairs necessitated the selling out
of part of the Society's capital, mainly by realizing investments
made with a view to such expenditure at a time when the Society's
income was larger.
The Council considered that after fifty years of activity the
Society was entitled to make its first appeal outside its own member-
ship for financial assistance. An appeal, supported by the names
of several highly distinguished members of the Society, has accord-
ingly been sent to various persons outside the Society's membership.
A copy of this appeal is printed in the current issue of the Journal,
and it is hoped that members who have friends outside the Society
hkely to respond to it, will obtain copies from the Secretary, to be
sent to their friends with a personal letter from themselves.
(11) Gift of Apparatus. The Council wish to thank Lord Charles
Hope for a generous gift of valuable apparatus used in the experi-
ments with Rudi Schneider in 1932.
(12) Library. In addition to the books consulted in the Library,
406 books were borrowed during the year by 77 Members, and
'68 books were borrowed by the National Central Library for
Students. A few books were obtained for Members from the
National Central Library. Members are reminded of their privilege
of borrowing from this organisation, through the Society, books
without restriction of subject.
(13) Membership of the Society. During the year 37 new Members,
2 Student Associates, and 2 Honorary Associates were elected. The
total loss in numbers from deaths, resignations and other causes was
38 Members, 13 Associates, and 1 Honorary xlssociate, leaving a
net decrease of 1 Member and 11 Associates. The total membership
of the Society now stands at 723.
(14) Publications. Six Parts of Proceedings were pubhshed
during the year : Part 144 in April, Part 145 in May, Part 146
in June, Part 147 in July, Part 148 in October, and Part 149 in
December.
The Secretary's sales to the public in Europe amount to £78 3s. Id.
and to members of the Society, £27 9s. Od. ; the sales in the United
States amount to £12 15s. Od.
1
rH
CO 00 o o o CO a. o C: O rH CO C o CO O o
CO 00 00
rH
o o 1—1
r-t
o rH eg tCi uO CO
rH
rH CO o CO
rH
O
rH
00 o
rH
rH C: o
1-H
Oi O a>
X o o CO
o CO
<N
CO -+
CO
CO
r-i
(M 00
rH
o
rH
Oi
rH
rH
CO
rH CO o
rH OS
•.S3
» '? ^
§5 ^
O G QJ
8 s s
VS H, Ph
O o
1-1
05
1 § .
«1 ft.
^ C3
s 5
_=c
>--5 o
ai 00
CO
eg
CO
S I-
2 -S
s
CO
OI
c S
Co o:
J*
C3 .
C<3
Co CO eo
^ ^ .CO !^
a •« fe ~
cj S e -a
« 3 S «
S o 3 e W S
S - 1=^
1
S CO , .
ts
S -S § > s
< v.,
1^ C|
00
o
X CO O X r-t C3 o O a o O OrHO
rH X Oi
rH
rH CO CO in
rH
o rH
X'
l> c+1
*
rH
rH
X
CO
c+)
CO
o CO X
c+1
rH
CO
t^xcg
M t-rH
cri
iH O rH O O
t'- o X ir: o
X <M O rH O
rH rH rH rH O
rH CO W CO
Q -g
P *^
'
5 ^
CO J?
^ (-H O
3 Si:
cj C e ^
O
in o t-
O t-
Ol Oi
CI Cl O Cl rH rH
^ rH rH rH
—
l-H 00
O
o
.op
ft,
t O CO o Ph
CO
fc 1^
Cj
=1J C O
b; S i>j
o
o o
o o 00
I-t
CO o
o
o CO
o
Ci
•-•I
. S a
.a
s
;
22
03 c3
s
3 S
I 'I
i-H S
1^^
S OS a J2
Q 3
<a = S
9 W
-a
1^^ Q 5
a a
3
P
^ S S
See
^ K
3 Gj
a > .
ft,
- -
I
(NO i-H
i-H r-1
*
o OS
o X 00
I—
t
iH o
iH CO I>
2 2
C C
n n
<:j C! C3 M ^
^ -4j
—
=^ S
o o
^ -s -s S
is 2 I
^ CP 3 O
o 5 ^
s o o M
CO
CO
05
a;
C5
;^
&^
a?
O
o
g
O
o
o
00
00
I-H
o
I-H CO
erf
a
<1
8 <
3" « >-
h-l S ° 5 55
O S s O
o
I—
I
Q
M
-5: a
o r-t X
CD rH I—
1
00
f-H rH
CO CI CD
CI CO CD
c*i
I>1
,o
£ S
~ £ o s
e
O «
S "5
OS OS O
to CI o
o
o CD to o
tH o.
i-T
^-+1
2 13
*^
••I §
o m pq
4S
^ ^ ^ ^
t>3 !>3 S 1^
CO o o O
o r-t o tH
tH r-I
»o o o
00 o o
iTi CO iH o
>i rH ci
1-1
s
t
o'
"2
^ 3
g O
3 « cc
» H § «
I ^ S
S S o 3
St ^ 53
2? ^
(t!
Q
O
fa
a
ca
o,
a
o
si
a
ta
a
o
fa
EH
a si
p5 O o
-is
lis?
M 00 -S
^ ' C3
o 00 H
O CO o ^
TO O
rj2
— CO
o ^
3 ^ "
o o '-3
O -g
>> >, "
ta si J>2
5 ^ "2
'Sa 'ca ^
fil P5 r3
c4 -a
o
3 I
O O iH o o
o o o o o
O O 00 o
:£) 00 O
»o Ol o
^ « « t**
fa
c
o
h-1
O OO IM
o o o
t-( CO !0 O
lO (M (N I>
t+1 <>i
-
35 in
in
Q
si
a ra
1—
1
CS
rH
o J4
O
o
a cc
-S a
ca o
lid ISJ
o
3
'ji
a c
o o
o
-*«
CO
M O t-
1—1 oo
QO
--^
S '3 '
CO ,
> M 5
o ca :
M O
^ &
o
2. 3
CC
fa
a
ca
ca
.2
a
3
Is
=a
CO . ^ a
3 fa o
< £ s
-a ca -3
w O H ^
n
a
fa
PS
o
s
m
O tH
2 Q
•-^ :^ 3
> xi
o a
S o
2; fa
.M .a
CO
"
-2 3
a o
o o o o o
c:? 05 o o o ^
CO o o m o o
ca ca
^
H H ^
o o o
o o o
rl' (M o
»0 lO CO
fa'
o o
in in
t~ IM
-12
a
o
o .9
ca B
•d "g
=3 9
fa
'^
o ca
2
pq o
-» a
•s S
CD (A
1>
- >1
O -rj
W ca
05 -I
w a
o -
.a O
o a
CJ
a S
* -a
CO OJ
eg
5
0 S
^ °
1 i
•§1
OJ
a
a -tS
^ 2
O „
ca 2
Tebeuaey 1937 Annual Report of the Council for 1936 25
(15) Meetings. The following meetings have been held during
the year
:
29 Jan. " Psychical Research from a Sensitive's Point of View ",
by Miss G. M. Johnson.
26 Feb. Experiences with Continental Mediums last Autumn ",
by Mr C. V. C. Herbert.
25 Mar. " The Structure of Communicator-Personality in Leonard
Sittings ", by Mr Kenneth Richmond.
29 Apl. " Further Research in Extra-Sensory Perception ", by
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
27 May. " The Flower Medium : Miss Hylda Lewis ", by Mr J.
Cecil Maby.
*8 July. " Some Recently received Cases of Haunted Houses ",
by Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.
30 Sept. " Statistical and Other Technicalities in Psychical Re-
search ", by Mr W. H. Salter.
28 Oct. " The Significance of Book-Tests ", by the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas.
25 Nov. " The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon ", l)y Dr H.
Godwin Baynes.
* General Meeting.
APPEAL
After fifty years of activity the Society for Psychical Research feels
entitled to make its first ajjpeal outside its own membership for the
financial support necessary to carry on its work. The Council of the
Society are accordingly circulating this appeal to persons whom they
beheve to be interested in the advancement of knowledge.
The Society was founded in 1882, mainly by the efforts of a group
of distinguished Cambridge men, Frederic Myers, Henry Sidgwick,
and Edmund Gurney, and of Professor (later Sir William) Barrett
of Trinity College, Dublin, to make " an organized and scientific
attempt to investigate that large group of debatable phenomena
designated by such terms as . . . psychical and Spirituahstic ", and
apparently not explicable by the known laws of Nature. The policy
of its founders has always been and is still the policy of the Society.
Its object is the investigation of facts, and not an attempt to prove
or disprove any hypothesis.
No other organisation has attempted over so long a period of
years to conduct an impartial enquiry into these questions, which at
all times and all over the world have aroused the keenest interest
and touched the deepest emotions of mankind. For various reasons,
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 193T
including the emotional factor, there is no subject in which im-
partial enquiry is more essential or more difficult.
It would be impossible here to describe all the many branches of
the Society's work, but attention may be drawn to the following
points :
Telepathy and Kindred Phenomena. The researches of the
Society have produced a large volume of evidence for the existence
of mental faculties not yet recognised by " official " scientific opinion
but almost universally accepted by those who have given it intelli-
gent study. This is in itself an important achievement, and has
moreover a close bearing on other branches of the Society's work.
" The communication of impressions of any kind from one mind to
another, independently of the recognised channels of sense ", is a
matter lying at the root of that crucial problem, the survival of
bodily death and communication between the living and the dead.
The Question of Survival. The Society has throughout its
existence been investigating this question by every possible line of
approach. It has conducted a long series of experiments into all
branches of mediumship and automatism. Its forty-three volumes
of Proceedings, and particularly the reports on Mrs Piper and Mrs
Leonard, are indispensable for every serious student of the question.
Hypnotism and Psycho-therapy. Most of the pioneers in
scientific hypnotism and in more recent developments of medical
psychology have been members, and many of them active members,,
of the Society : Gurney, Janet, Wilham James, C. G. Jung, Sigmund
Freud. Persons suffering from mental distress often beheve that
they have had supernormal experiences ; such persons are from
time to time advised by psycho-therapists to consult the officials of
the Society, and discuss their difficulties, which as the result of such
discussion are often sensibly relieved.
Detection of Fraud. Although the exposure of fraudulent
mediums is not one of the main purposes of the Society, it is a duty
which it has from time to time effectively performed. Too many
persons who profess to be mediums make a profitable livelihood by^
trading on the emotions of the credulous, and particularly of persons
recently bereaved. It is of great importance that the Society should
continue to protect the public from imposture and exploitation.
The Society is actively pursuing its investigations, to the hmit of
its financial resources, in the light of its past experiences and with
the help of modern experimental and statistical methods. But in
order to carry out its work the Society's present income is insuffi-
cient. It has a membership of about 750, whose annual subscrip-
tions amount to about £1,100, and owing to the abstruse nature of
February 1937 Appeal 27
much of its research it cannot look for any large increase of member-
ship. It has also small endowments, the income from which is
about £400.
There are heavy and unavoidable expenses for printing the Pro-
ceedings and Journal, which contain the records of the Society's
investigations (in 1935 approximately £650) ; for renting premises
to house the Library, and for the Seance-room and offices ; and for
conducting all the correspondence incidental to the various branches
of the Society's work.
Only by strict economy, and rehance wherever possible on unpaid
work, has it been able to conduct its researches and make them
known to the pubUc through its Proceedings.
The Council consider that a minimum of £20,000 is required.
Without the additional income that an endowment on this scale
would produce, there is a risk of the utility of the Society's work
being seriously circumscribed, and they consider that the past
record of the Society, and the importance of the work now being
done by it justify them in asking for at least this amount. The
officers of the Society will be glad to furnish any other information
desired.
Donations should be sent to the Hon. Treasurer, Rear-Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
While it is important to the Society to effect an immediate
increase of its endowments by donation, the Council would also
welcome further endowments by way of legacy.
We appeal confidently to all who recognise the importance of an
organised and impartial enquiry of the widest scope into the nature
and faculties of the human mind, to place the future of the Society
on a sure foundation.
C. D. Broad (President, 1935-1936), Knightbridge Professor of
Moral Philosophy, Cambridge.
•
Balfour (President, 1906-1907).
E. R. DoDDS, Regius Professor of Greek, Oxford.
Julian S. Huxley, D.Sc.
Edith Lyttelton, G.B.E. (President, 1933-1934).
Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S. (President, 1901-1903).
W. R. Matthews, K.C.V.O., D.D., D.Litt., Dean of St. Paul's.
William McDougall, F.R.S. (President, 1920-1921), Professor
of Psychology, Duke University, U.S.A.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D. (President, 1922).
H. H. Price, Wykeham Professor of Logic, Oxford.
Rayleigh, F.R.S., Emeritus Professor of Physics, Imperial
College of Science.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1937
CORRESPONDENCE
The Frances Campbell Sittings
To the Hon. Editor of The Jouknal
Madam,—A note on the observed method of Miss Campbell's
mediumship may help in judging the type of results shown in Mr
Herbert's report. At my sitting, and apparently at others, she made
no approach to trance or semi-trance, but seemed simply to be
giving preferential attention to any intuitional promptings that
might come up through her normal consciousness. The way in
which these promptings emerge, and are organised into ideas and
statements, differs a good deal from what happens when trance or
semi-trance has ansesthetised a " layer " or two in which secondary
elaboration takes place. Miss Campbell's phenomena interest me
most as throwing some light on the comphcations and confusions
of normal intuitional process. This kind of effort to express intuition
is most valuable, for study in relation to other efforts of intuitional
expression (as, for example, in the much more highly organised field
of art) ; but it seems to me that accurate presentation, for evidential
purposes, of any paranormal impulse that may occur, is likely to
come off second best. Miss Campbell seems, in point of fact, to have
organised her faculties in the direction of suggesting psychical
advice rather than of achieving evidential precision.
I might note, as regards my own sitting, that Mr Herbert is more
than right in suggesting that phrases used about my fallacious
father-communicator show no manifest connection with Myers.
They show none whatever. {Journal, January 1937, top of page 4.
Incidentally, Mr Herbert is not contradicting himself in this para-
graph, but a slip of the pen has produced " latter " where he obvi-
ously meant " former ".) The point which I did not, perhaps, make
clear was that they resembled other, also unverifiable, remarks
addressed to me as from Myers by other mediums. Another,
similar, remark has since occurred at a Leonard sitting. I was
chiefly in search of the motivation that could have produced a
fallacious father-communicator, not as a passing shot, but as a
figure that held the field for a good part of the sitting. My wife,
also going to Miss Campbell anonymously, was given a similar
presentation as being that of her husband's father. Failing any
other conjecture for the motive-power behind all this, I put it as a
g;uess that Miss Campbell got hold of some Myers " configuration
"
(to borrow a concept from Gestalt psychology)—by no means
necessarily a " communication "—and misinterpreted this into one
of her habitual presentations of parental figures.
Yours, etc., Kenneth Richmond.
February 1937 Correspondence 29
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I see that in my report of the Campbell sittings {Journal
Vol. XXX, page 2, 1937), I have omitted to give the date of
Professor Broad's sitting, which is relevant in connection with the
date of the birthday given on page 3. The sitting was held on
January 22, 1936.
There is also a mistake on page 4, first paragraph, line 7 :
" latter"
should read " former ". I remain, Madam,
Your obedient servant,
C. V. C. Herbert.
Scarcity of Spontaneous Cases
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I was, of course, aware that I was one of the persons of
whom Professor Schiller was thinking when, in the June (1936) issue
of the Journal, he again advanced the peculiar ideas of the scientific
method with which his name is associated. I was the ofiicial who
declined to publish the details of the " apparently supernormal
"
photograph mentioned by Professor Schiller. I did so for the very
simple reason that I did not think that it was " apparently super-
normal ". Professor Schiller did, and I suggested to him that he
should publish it himself. This he refused to do.
I have no doubt that it would be possible to collect laboriously
hundreds of modern conjuring effects which are " apparently super-
normal " if the performers call themselves mediums. As a matter
of fact the Society does collect a certain number of such effects as
Mr Herbert has pointed out.
Personally I fail to see how publishing a thousand tales of cards
rising out of crystal goblets will ever advance the probability of these
pasteboards " really " behaving in this manner " by themselves ",,
but then I am not a logician but an experimenter.
Yours, etc., E. J. Dingwall.
(?) A Fulfilled Prediction
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—On June 29, 1902, at a sitting in London for clair-
voyance with Miss K. Wingfield as medium, the following message
was spelt out :
" Tell the nation that eventually there will be two kings alive
together."
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febetjaby 1937
The record of this message has been preserved in a pocket-book
and there is corroboration in a letter from one of the sitters. These
documents are at the Society's rooms.
My impression on receiving the message in 1902 was that it could
only be fulfilled by an abdication.
I still think so, and that the prediction was fulfilled on Dec. 11,
Yours, etc., Lawbence J. Jones.
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—In a letter to the Journal (Oct. 1936), Mr Whately
Carington, speaking of Mrs E. Garrett's reactions during his recent
trance personaUty tests, informs Miss Naumburg of two observa-
tions that I am glad to be able to substantiate.
(1) We are told that the medium's p.g. reflexes faded rapidly
during the tests, while her skin resistance, initially high, also quickly
rose.
As I have observed similar effects in several undoubtedly hys-
terical subjects, possessing otherwise thin, moist skin and good
normal circulation, and that accompanied by evident tactile anaes-
thesia ; one may be allowed to suppose that such a condition is,
perhaps, typical of certain hysterical and " mediumistic " subjects.
Note also that nocturnal paralysis, plus various degrees of anaes-
thesia, has frequently been recorded by persons who claim to have
experienced " astral " projection.
The falling off of the reflexes, if in excess of ordinary boredom
and fatigue effects, is probably part and parcel of such increasing
skin resistance and loss of sensation ;
for, although the psychogenic
emotions may still remain active, their physiological concomitants
{e.g. the p.g. reflexes) can quite easily disappear, owing to neural
paralysis in association with some special trance, or other psycho-
physical, condition of the subject.
It should also be remarked, in passing, that, apart from the
determinable effects of capillary circulation, increasing skin resist-
ance is abnormal in p.g. reflex work ; as it has been found * that
(other things being equal) the passage of a direct current through
the skin of a human subject results in a progressive fall of elec-
trical resistance, proportional to the appUed e.m.f. An alternating
current, however, has no such effect ; so that the present writer is
* A paper on this effect and the technical advantages of an A.C. circuit is
now in preparation by J. A. Lauwerys and myself, for publication, very
shortly, in a suitable physiological journal.
Februaey 1937 Correspondence 31
now employing A.C. in place of D.C., in a new type of circuit, in
order to eliminate the negative drift that has always been a nuisance
to workers in this field.
(2) It is true enough, as Miss Naumburg suggests, that the effects
of certain stimulus words normally die down with increasing famih-
arity, but only in so far as all reaction times to a given set of words
tend progressively to shorten with repetition. That being so, the
outstanding responses tend to remain outstanding, if they are of
geniiine significance, thus presenting a sort of key to the given
personality, as Mr Carington has rightly appreciated.
In a previous note on Mr Carington's investigation I referred to
such a process of quickening as " mental facihtation " ; and it has
been found that very smooth and convincing curves can be drawn
from the mean reaction times on successive occasions, to any given
batch of stimulus words, for a given subject.
In this connection, it is also of interest to note that («) after a
certain number of repetitions, a minimum mean reaction time is
attainable ; (6) that several recitations on the same day are finally
necessary to reach that " rock-bottom " value, a small rise in the
value subsequently occurring through lack of repetitive practice ;
and (c) that, granted a good many recitations in the first place, even
after a whole year, an almost " rock bottom " value ^\^ll be main-
tained by a given subject. At the same time, we found that a few
(between 5% and 30%, according to the subject) quite novel word
responses were given after such a long lapse of time.
It seems to me that these latter facts are of considerable import-
ance in connection with the sort of investigation that Mr Carington
has devised ;
especially if it were proposed to take such " mental
finger-prints " of personalities, first, while living and, second, post
mortem, via a trance medium or automatist. May I, therefore,
commend these considerations to the attention of those who have
any such procedure in mind ?
Yours truly, J. Cecil Maby.
REVIEWS
Recollections and Reflections. By Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., D.Sc,
F.R.S., Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. London, G. Bell
& Sons, Ltd. 1936.
Sir J. J. Thomson, a Vice-President of our Society and one of the
most distinguished of Hving physicists has recently published a
volume of reminiscences Recollections and Reflections, in which he
has a chapter on psychical research.
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 193T
The only personal experiences lie reports are a few sittings witk
the slate-writer, Eglinton, and with Eusapia Palladino, in which he^
observed nothing that he thought of evidential value, except as
evidence of fraud. He has, however, kept an open mind as to the
possible occurrence of supernormal phenomena.
He attaches great importance to further experiments in telepathjr
and especially to short-distance telepathy such as has been observed
in the case of Professor Gilbert Murray. " It is quite possible ", h&
says, " indeed very probable that it may turn out to be of an
entirely different character " from telepathy occurring over long;
distances. He quotes with approval the saying by the late Lord
Rayleigh in his Presidential Address to this Society " To my mind
telepathy with the dead would present comparatively little diffi-
culty when it is admitted as regards the living. If the apparatus of
the senses is not used in one case, why should it be needed in the
other ?
He concludes his chapter with a section on dowsing, in which he
again stresses the need for further experiment with a special view
to testing the opinion held by some dowsers that they respond to a
physical effect of some kind, akin to radiation. In this connection
Sir J. J. Thomson remarks that " it may be pertinent to say that
in the early days of radio-activity at the beginning of the century,
I examined specimens of water freshly drawn from a good many-
wells in different parts of England and found that they all, though
in very different degrees, contained the radio-active emanation from
radium. This only retains its activity for four days, so that if the
water were stagnant it would soon lose its radio-activity. Thus, if
this were connected with the effect produced on the dowser, it would
explain why it is that he can only detect running water ".
In a chapter on " Physics in My Time " he discusses and criticises
Crookes' experiments with D. D. Home ; and a chapter entitled " Some
Trinity Men " has a commendatory reference to the work of our
Society in some reminiscences of Henry Sidgwick, where reference
is made to the part played by Sidgwick in the Society's foundation.
H. de G. S.
Eeaders of the Newlove Case {Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XLIII, p. 439,
1935) may be interested to know that Mr Drayton Thomas has now^
pubhshed the case in book form,* with additional material and
thirteen illustrations from photographs.
* An Amazing Experiment. Lectures Universal Ltd., price 2s. 6d. net.
No. 533.—Vol. XXX March 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.G. i
On WEDNESDAY, 24 March 1937. at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER
" On Some Recent Investigations carried out
by the Society
"
BY
MR C. V. C. HERBERT
WILL BE READ
JSI.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited,
c
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech1937
PRIVATE MEETING
The 146th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 27 January 1937, at 5.30 p.m.. The Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas in the chair.
Mr S. G. Soal read a paper on A Repetition ofDr J. B. Rhine's Work
in Extra-Sensory Perception. It is hoped that when the investigation,
which is still in progress, is comj^lete, a report will be published.
STATISTICAL AND OTHER TECHNICALITIES
IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Summary of a Paper read at a Private Meeting of the Society
BY Mr W. H. Salter on the 30 September 1936
Mr Salter began by saying that his own personal bias was not at
all in favour of statistics, and that he would be most reluctant to see
Psychical Research handed over entirely to the expert, whether the
statistical expert or any other, and the average citizen warned off.
No officer of a Society with so many distinguished scientific names
on its Presidential Roll was likely to under-value the contribution
of the scientists to Psychical Research ; but it was a plain fact that
a preponderant share in the develoj)ment of our work had fallen on
men and women, not exclusively or in the main, scientific.
The primary function of the S.P.R. was to bring the whole subject
of Psychical Research out of the morass of nebulous uncertain sub-
jectivity to the terra firma of common sense workaday fact ; to
formulate canons of evidence adapted to the particular sort of
occurrences with which it had to deal with a view to producing a
body of fact which educated people could accept with the same
degree of certainty that they look for in arriving at a decision of any
matter of practical importance in their own lives. The success of
the Society in achieving this object was due largely to the fact that
it was a Society since, in formulating and maintaining evidential
standards, the continuous organised co-operation of many minds
had many advantages over the free-lance investigations of any indi-
vidual, however brilHant ; but it was equally due to the co-operation
of the scientist and the man of practical experience in deahng with
the particular material which is the subject of Psychical Research.
Mr Salter quoted with commendation a passage from Mr Pidding-
ton's Presidential Address (Proc. Vol. 34, pp. 138-9). He reminded
members that while in comparison with the distinguished scientists
Maech 1937 Statistical and other Technicalities 35
who had adorned the Presidential Chair, the generaHty of the
Society must rank as laity, in comparison with the outside pubhc
they were one and all experts. They were so famiUar, for instance,
with the rules of evidence estabhshed by the founders of the Society
in relation to spontaneous experiences, that the necessity for
observing them seemed to members of the S.P.R. self-evident.
It came as something of a shock to find that outside the Society,
persons—often highly intelhgent persons—did not see the need for
these rules, and flagrantly contravened them. He cited as examples
two well-known books : An Adventure and An Experiment With
Time, the value of both of which was greatly diminished by neglect
of elementary rules of evidence.
Turning to other kinds of technicality with which Psychical
Researchers were from time to time confronted, Mr Salter referred
to cases where it was claimed that mediums in trance had displayed
learning beyond their normal educational attainments. For
example, to judge VaUantine's phenomena, it was necessary to
apply to persons who knew the many different languages which
VaUantine's " Direct Voice " professed to be able to speak ; to check
the claims of a recent medium who professed to be inspired by the
French Astronomer, Flammarion, recourse had to be made to some-
one with more than superficial astronomical knowledge. The
physical phenomena on account of their variety and heterogeneity
were even more difficult in this respect than the mental. The case,
for instance, of the " Marjorie " thumb-prints seemed fairly simple
when first raised by Mr Dudley, but when, after two years' interval,
the reply to Mr Dudley's charges appeared, there was attached to
it a bibliography containing entries relating to the most diverse
branches of science, including a monograph on " The Modes of In-
heritance of Aggregates of Meristic (Integral) Variates in the Poly-
embryonic Offspring of the Nine Banded Armadillo ", and also
several treatises on Relativity. Until he had mastered these and
other equally abstruse, and at first sight irrelevant, subjects, the
reader was not apparently deemed capable of judging whether the
" Walter " thumb-prints were fakes or not.
However much we might dishke statistics, they were and always
had been essential in the very wide field of Psychical Research in
which the issue was ;
granted the correspondence between experi-
ence and event, was it such as could be attributed to chance. The
earliest volumes of S.P.R. Proceedings contain a good deal of stat-
istical matter in relation to thought transference, experiments with
cards, etc. Statistics had been used both in " Phantasms of the
Living" and in the "Census of Hallucinations" reported on in
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1937
Proceedings, Vol. 10, to evaluate certain classes of spontaneous
phenomena.
Admittedly, our researches had in recent years become more
statistical, but in this. Psychical Research was following the example
of the more orthodox sciences in which the domain of statistics was
continually being extended.
No Psychical Researcher could rest content while the field of
mediumistic communication still remained, in a large part, un-
reclaimed from uncertainty and subjectivity. There seemed to be
two factors of uncertainty operating sometimes separately, some-
times in combination. There was first the doubt the student often
felt as to whether he was being told all the relevant facts, and
secondly, the doubt whether correspondences between communica-
tion and external fact were in any particular case exphcable by
chance or some other normal cause.
Mr Salter said he was glad to hear of recent experiments by
Members of the Society in the nature of control experiments applied
to Sittings. He thought, however, that any experienced student of
Sittings would have no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that
some communications were clearly within the scope of chance pro-
bability, and others as clearly outside it ; and that it was a waste of
time to pay too much attention to any that were not well outside
chance probability. The technicahty of Proxy Sittiugs as developed
by Miss Nea Walker and Mr Drayton Thomas was helpful in re-
ducing the element of uncertainty.
In conclusion, Mr Salter referred to the use of the word association
test by Mr Whateley Carington, and of the statistical analysis
based thereon. It seemed to him that quantitative analysis held
out a prospect of attaining precision in the classification and analysis
of mental states, which was not attainable by other methods.
It was a comparatively new technique, and would doubtless
undergo many modifications as the result of experience, but it could
hardly be doubted that the results already attained had thrown
fresh and vmexpected fight on the status of Controls and communi-
cators. It remained to be seen whether there was complete agree-
ment on this matter between quantitative and quahtative methods.
If, after further research, there remained differences which could
not be reconciled, the inference would seem to be that the two
modes of analysis were dealing with different subject matters,
different levels of personaUty, perhaps.
March 1937 Notes 071 Recent Research 37
NOTES ON EECENT EESEARCH
The work on the Garrett Absent Sitter experiment is being con-
tinued. A further sitting in connection with the Irving-Leonard
experiment produced no result, but the tests are to be continued.
An interesting Leonard Proxy Case has been communicated to the
Society by The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas. It is hoped that a report
of this may be printed or pubhshed later.
A number of " spontaneous cases " have been examined, the
records of which may be consulted by Members and Associates at
the Society's Rooms. In connection with the Raynham Hall
" ghost photograph " (see Country Life, 1936, December 26, p. 673),
the Research Officer interviewed the photographers, and inspected
the negatives. His report can be seen at the Rooms. An interesting
account by Mr L. E. Eeman of a case of obsession has been com-
municated to the Society by Mr Maby. It is available to Members
and Associates at the Society's Rooms.
Mr Richmond's investigation of the recorded Leonard material
is proceeding with the extensive records of " Dora " communica-
tions, kindly lent by the Rev. W. S. Irving. There are also some
particularly good voice-records of this communicator, which promise
to repay detailed analysis of syllable-timing and intonation.
Following a suggestion by The Hon. ]\Irs Alfred Lyttelton, a
series of Study Groups has been formed within the Society. The
Groups, which have been authorized by the Council at a recent
meeting, each consist of a leader or Convener and one or more other
Members or Associates. Groups are already working on the follow-
ing subjects : The phenomena of Witchcraft, Haunted Houses,
" Cross Correspondence ", Evidence of Intention, Luminous Pheno-
mena. Other Groups are in course of formation.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech 1937
COKRESPONDENCE
To the Hon. Editor of the Journal
Madam,—Can any reader elucidate the following communica-
tions ?
There is a certain similarity between them, and the dates are not
far apart.
I
Ouija. June 23, 1903, at Cranmer Hall, Norfolk.
In the garden.
Miss K. Wingfield, medium.
" Strong powers move the inanimate objects, not always living
intelligences.
(What powers ?)
Thoughts travelhng through space.
(Do you mean thoughts of hving persons travelhng through
space ?)
" No, silly. Thoughts that have been cast on the drum of the
universe for centuries."
II
S.P.R. Journal, Vol. XI, p. 248.
Table sitting. August 1903, at Cambridge.
Mrs Verrall with Miss Verrall and Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
" The table ", after saying that it did not know how it received
impressions, added :
" Thoughts fly, that is how I know ; I am the recipient of world
films."
Yours, etc.,
Lawrence J. Jones.
Maroh 1937 Reviews 39
EEVIEWS
The Dawn of the Human Mind. A Study of Palaeolithic Man. R. E..
Schmidt. Translated by Professor Macalister. Sidgwick &
Jackson.
This book will be of some interest to psychical researchers. Dr
Schmidt is one of the greatest German authorities on Palaeolithic man.
His book divides into four sections. The Introduction deals with
The Soul and the Innate Memory. Part I with the scene of his sub-
ject, the earth in the Ice Ages. Part II with the development of the
physical structure of man through those ages. Part III with the
development of consciousness in this form. Dr Schmidt traces a
connection between the gradually enlarging skull and the gradually
improving technique in tool-shaping and in drawing and carving.
The book is a massive one elaborately illustrated. The ideas of the
Professor are also elaborate. He beheves that he can trace what he
calls a " dark optimum " and a " bright optimum " art, the one of
the north and the cave and the perquisite of the magician and the
other of the south and the open shelter and the man of action. He
believes that apart from this division man goes through three stages
which can be traced in his art, Magical, Animistic and Symbohc. He
sees man pass from making those amazing representational pictures
of beasts, with an occasional picture of a face-less woman of fecun-
dity, to those scrawls of action where there is no anatomy but the
story-telHng vigour of a child's drawing. He allows that the earher
style is eidetic and in his voluminous bibliography Jaensch's work is
quoted but there is no reference to Jaensch's important discovery
that such imagery may be equated with hme deficiency affecting the
parathyroids. Why man's consciousness should have evolved at
such an unprecedented speed—if we compare that sjieed with the
development of any other species' features—he does not speculate, nor
whether in that advance which leads us to the power of abstraction
which has been ours since the neolithic, we may have lost certain
dawning capacities. He points out that when men took to fractional
burial and carefully picked off the heads of the dead and kept them
in red ochre they probably had begun to think of mind as apart from
body, and when they placed these heads (as at Ofnet) facing to the
West they may have risen to a sky cosmology. Beyond that the
Professor does not go. The remainder of his theory is confined to
stating that the past still hves in us and repeats itself in the child.
It is a pity that a man equipped with such immense factual know-
ledge and with a mind so inchned to interesting theory should not
have been more acquainted with our subject. Perhaps nowadays
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech 1937
Psychical Eesearch and all the psychological side of anthropology is
dangerous ground, for, with race theories and dogmas become matters
of faith and morals, any theory or mythos other than the govern-
ment's may point to a concentration camp. Certainly it seems
strange that in a book of such scholarship the author should have to
give a footnote to explain the word Mana. However, we must be
grateful for what is given and it is much. But the psychical re-
searcher will probably find that the physiological sections of the book
are more informative and interesting to him than the psychological
—
which is a httle sad in a book entitled " The Dawn of the Human
Mind ". G. H.
Wilfred Brandon, transcribed by Edith Ellis, O-pen the Door !
Pp. xxi, 172 ;
Incarnation, pp. xxi, 195. Alfred Knopf. Price
$2.00 each.
These two books are not easy to review. They are obviously the
genuine product of a remarkable automatist whose career and
occupation prove her to be a woman of exceptional intelligence and
talent. It is best perhaps to leave readers to form their own con-
clusions about the actual value of the content of the books. The
most interesting is the one called Incarnation, and it contains an
account of the process of incarnation which is extremely curious.
What differentiates both these volumes from most productions of
the kind is their insistence upon the danger to the human race,
both on this earth and in the next life, if the fact of survival is
ignored. The communicator fears a retrogression on both planes
and expostulates thus :
" We have no reason to believe that it
would be more difficult for you to discover ivliy we can communicate
through some people (mediums) and not through others, than to
make any other of your experiments in radio-activity." (Incarnation,
p. 175). " You are afraid to learn by scientific means what we have
to tell you of the '
real world '. A few thousand dollars spent in
subsidising your radio experts and half a dozen trance or working
mediums would allow of sufficient experimentation, so that we could
speak to you as now you use wireless telegraphy and telephony or
code signals " {Incarnation, p. 124), and later again, " television . . .
has now reached a point where it will be the forerunner to radio
communication between the world you know and ours." The worst
of it is that we cannot imagine scientists moved by an appeal from
a source which lies fantastically beyond their vision of reality. Some
day, perhaps, parts of these books will be recognised to be what they
claim to be—messages from a discarnate being. At present we can
only treat them as psychological curiosities. Even as such, they are
March 1937 Reviews 41
deeply interesting and suggestive and might stimulate an extension
of research. Incidentally readers are exhorted to support Societies
for Psychical Research, and amazement is expressed that so httle
help is forthcoming. This is gratifying and imusual. We are more
accustomed to complaints from " communicators " of our obtuseness
and thick-sighted obstinacy. However, Wilfrid Brandon concludes
that ' the thing to strive for now is the mechanical device (for
communication with the next world) that will stand every test
anywhere at any time."—Quite ! E. L.
The Controls of Geraldine Cummins. Being an attempt to Prove that
they are Entities separate from each other, and from the Aiito-
matist. By E. B. Gibbes. The Grosvenor Press. Is.
Miss Gibbes has had much experience of the automatic writings
of Mss Geraldine Cummins, and in this Httle book, she describes
the personahties of the two controls connected with the phenomena
and gives her reasons for concluding that they are separate entities,
and for adopting the spiritistic hypothesis with regard to them.
These reasons, she bases on the fact that each control, (one
claims to be an ancient Greek, the other an early Christian) has his
own strongly marked personahty and characteristics, including
handwriting.
Recent research seems to have indicated that while medimnistic
controls may very well be secondary personahties of their mediums,
it does not necessarily follow that the communicators come into the
same category. We cannot therefore agree with Miss Gibbes when
she says in her final paragraph (page 30),
" No, these entities
appear to me to be something more than subhmuial creations. If
we are to attribute them to the subconscious mind, it would seem
that numerous other entities (who have written through her and
proved their identity) must also be the invention of that convenient
receptacle for the imaccountable."
The account of the personahties of the two controls is however of
great interest, and this further information about Mss Cummins'
mediumship will be welcomed by psychical researchers generally,
and students of automatism in particular.
S. R. W. W.
Mrs Rhys Davids, D.Litt., M.A., What is your Will ? Pp. 223.
(London : Rider & Co.). 1937. Price 6s. net.
Mrs Rhys Davids is well-known for her studies of Buddhist
literature and these studies have largely coloured this book. It is
in part a criticism of modern psychology and philosophy, and in
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1937
particular of what the author considers their undue neglect, both
of the concept and of the word Will, and in part a record of her own
psychical experiences. The author has sat with mediums, including
Mrs Leonard, and has herself practised automatic writing. In con-
sequence of the messages she has received, especially through her
automatic writing, she puts forward a religious and philosophical
scheme which, so far as it departs from ideas generally current,
seems to have been considerably influenced by her previous studies
of Buddhism. The author's style and phraseology do not make the
reading of the book altogether easy.
W. H. S.
Mr Sludge, the Medium. Being the life and adventure of Daniel
Dunglas Home. By Horace Wyndham. Geofeey Bles,
2 Manchester Square, London.
A very wide reader, the author of The Mayfair Calendar, Famous
trials retold, etc. undertakes to give us this time an accoimt of D. D.
Home's extraordinary curriculum vitae. (It was Robert Browning,
it will be remembered, who was pleased to dub him " Mr Sludge ",
whilst to Dickens he was " Home the humbug ").
As the book deals with other mediums besides Home or Hume
(in Russia, which he visited repeatedly, he was called " Hume "
invariably and, I think, nem. eontr. !), such as the Fox sisters, Mrs
Hayden, Miss Florence Cook, etc., I will begin by saying a few words
on the Rochester (or rather the Hydesville) knockings. The author
alludes of course to the well-known theory that they were produced
by the sisters cracking their toe-joints at will. I may recall in this
connection a letter of mine pubhshed in our Journal as long ago as
June 1893, and I may add here that the late Aksakoff, who had seen
Kate Fox-Jencken himself in St Petersburg in the early eighties,
stated to me after hearing the raps I produced, that they sounded
exactly like hers. Which circumstance did not of course prevent
his continuing to believe in the authenticity of the latter.
With regard to D. D. Home Mr Wyndham has accumulated a
mass of evidence, some of which is valuable. I am afraid he is hkely
to be fiercely attacked by Spiritualists on account of his tone, which
they may think not by any means worthy of such a subject.
As some importance was attached many years ago by the late
F. W. H. Myers and Sir W. F. Barrett to iirs Home's biographical
study I). D. Home, his life and mission, published in 1888, two
years after Home's death, I may as well point out here that in Mr
Wyndham's opinion this book is a " labour of love "
(p. 288), which
either ignores or puts a gloss on certain incidents in Home's career.
Maech 1937 Reviews 43
I agree with this judgment so far at least as Home's alleged ex-
posure at Biarritz in September 1857 is concerned (as to which see
my paper, " Some thoughts on D. D. Home " in Proceedings,
part 114, and Mr Sludge the Medium, pp. 82-85).
Without claiming—which would obviously have been absurd
—
that what I shall call the " foot hypothesis " explains the whole
bulk of Home's manifestations, I still maintain that it will explain a
good deal and will here call the reader's attention to such incidents
as those mentioned by Mr Wjudham on pp. 49, 76, 81-85. Though
there was no exposure, action of the feet is strongly suggested,
e.g. in John Bright's account of a seance on p. 119 (the more so as
he insists on " all hands on the table at the time "), whilst on p. 90
we read :
" The fact too that he (Home) wore elastic-sided boots (popularly
termed '
jemimas ') which could be slipped off and on very easily,
was held to be suspicious." (Cf. Proceedings, part 114, pp. 252-253.)
Though the author is, as I have said, a very wide reader, there
are in the book not a few inaccuracies which we shall hope to see no
more in a second edition. In other cases important statements are
made for which chapter and verse are not given. On p. 257, e.g. we
are told that Crookes subsequently destroyed all photographs of
" Katie Bang ", forbade their reproduction and also destroyed the
negatives. " This suggests that Crookes himself had doubts as to
their genuineness." I do not demur to these statements of Mr
Wyndham's, but wonder on what evidence they are based ?
Here are some distinct inaccuracies :
On p. 256 we are told that Crookes, " did once see two separate
figures in the cabinet " (at the Florence Cook seances), but that on
this occasion " Miss Cook's face was not visible as her head had to
be closely bound up in a thick shawl ". I hold no brief for Katie
King, but I well remember Crookes describing how he distinctly saw
both Katie and the medium at the last sitting of the series taldng
leave of each other (this account of Crookes's was published by the
way not in the Quarterly Journal of Science, as ]\'Ir Wyndham says
on p. 259, but, so far as I can remember at least, in the Spiritualist).
On the other hand the author being a sceptic might have rein-
forced his position by stating that several of the Katie King seances
took place in the home of Mr and Mrs Cook (the last seance in parti-
cular), whilst no account of these historical sittings can be complete
without mentioning the celebrated electrical test appHed to Florence
Cook by Crookes and Varley. But why speak at length about Katie
King in a book about Home ?
An omission not less regrettable strikes the reader in Mr Wynd-
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech1937
ham's account of Crookes's experiments with D. D. Home, where
no mention is made of the alteration of the weight of a partially
suspended board. On the other hand D. D. Home never dealt in
" production of flowers out of thin air "
(p. 295) and I think it dis-
tinctly inexact to say that Crookes's " bizarre " experiments were
conducted in his laboratory " simultaneously " with D. D. Home
and Kate Fox (Mrs Jencken). In any case Crookes's pubhshed
accounts do not seem to me to warrant such a contention. Never-
theless it is unfortunately quite true that—as pointed out, I beheve,
for the first time by Dr Fournier d'Albe—Crookes was not averse
to taking part in a seance with three mediums at once : Herne,
Williams and Home (oj). cit. p. 226). The seance was of course a dark
one : it throws nevertheless a good deal of hght—possibly lurid
light, I am afraid—on Crookes as an investigator of spirituahstic
phenomena.
One more erroneous statement only, and I have done with that
part of my subject (though I might make the series still longer).
On page 226 Mr Wyndham tells us d j^^opos of the Dialectical
Society's report on Spiritualism that " while three of the sub-com-
mittees merely saw tables revolve, the other three . . . saw nothing
at all ". As a matter of fact the experiments of one of these sub-
committees on movements of tables (apparently) without contact
seem to suggest even to-day that something hke telekinesis may be
" a fact in nature " after all.
Those of us who still fondly cherish a behef in the genuineness of
Home's " manifestations " will possibly welcome the mistakes and
omissions I have been able to point out in the most recent work
which attempts to demohsh his reputation. Well, I must say that
this work is a valuable one nevertheless. It contains a mass of
material, some of which while thoroughly deserving our attention
is besides relatively difficult of access in England (such for instance
as various French memoirs dealing with the Second Empire). With
many of Mr Wyndham's statements I find myself in at least partial
agreement. Though I will not say as the author does ^ that the
" tests to which Home was subjected by him (Crookes) were childish
"
(p. 227), I certainly think some of these experiments or observations
open to very grave doubts. That " blue blood " (though I disHke
the term) " is not necessarily equipped to solve the secrets of
^ I am not sure, however, these are Mr Wyndham's words. He seems in
this passage to be quoting Sir W. F. Barrett. But surely Sir W. F. Barrett
could not have written anything of the kind nor added :
" Hence it is not out
of the way for a brother scientist to declare :
" Mr Crookes's methods are a
premium upon knavery " ? Who was this " brother Scientist " ? ! ? !
Maech 1937 Reviews 45
mediumship "
(p. 240) I thoroughly agree ; as also that the theory
which maintains that a medium who does not conduct his seances
for cash down is necessarily above suspicion is unwarranted (p. 291).
That the career of D. D. Home is not by any means above suspicion
I attempted to prove as far back as 1912 (S.P.R. Journal). And that
Lord Dunraven's Experiences in Spiritualism reprinted in our Pro-
ceedings in 1924 show that there had been at these sittings parti-
cularly favourable opportunities for cheating I tried to show in a
paper pubhshed in the Proceedings in 1930, whilst for ]\Ir Wyndham
the record reveals that Home directed and controlled the sittings
from start to finish (p. 239).
Before I end may I be allowed to add that the hnes with which
Mr Wyndham finishes his interesting work do not meet with my
approval ? He hesitates apparently to say whether in his opinion
Crookes, Barrett, de Morgan and Wallace on the one hand, or Darwin,
Faraday, Huxley and Tyndall on the other, were right and calls this
problem a baffling one and one " that still puzzles spirituahsts and
materiahsts alike "
(p. 298). So far so good : hesitation in this
respect may be permissible after all even to-day. But why does
he add :
" The solution can only be furnished by himself. Yet during the
fifty years he has been among them . . . Daniel Dunglas Home,
the 'King of Mediums', has never once come back from the shades
to attend a seance and confound the sceptics."
There are many flippant sentences and very superficial judgments
in Mr Wyndham's book, but this is one of the most glaring samples.
What has Home's complete silence since his death to do with the
question whether his phenomena were genuine or fraudulent ? Such
an " argument ", is sadly out of place in a work claiming to present
an objective ^ if not scientific account of the celebrated mediimi's
career
!
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
^ As I use here this adjective I will add that though most obviously hostile
to D. D. Home, the author is in fact objective enough to admit that the atti-
tude of some scientists of the time versus this medium left something to be
desired. Thus of Dr W. Carpenter he says (p. 245) that his paper against
" Spiritualism and its recent converts " in the Quarterly Review of October
1871 " was instinct with prejudice and inaccuracy ".
46 Jotmicd of Society for Psychicctl Research March 1937
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metapsychique.
November-December 1936.
—" The Problem of tlie Stigmatics and
its Metapsychic Interest," by Dr Jean Vinchon. Dr Vincbon takes
tbree stigmatics and deals witb their pbenomena as if resulting from
the same natural jirocess, tbougb one was a Saint (St Francis of
Assisi), the second a mystic, Maria de Mori, " in whose story disease
plays an important part ", and the third a medium, Mme Olga K.,
studied by Dr Osty. While recognizing the greater powers of St
Francis and the other " signs and wonders " which accompanied his
stigmatization, Dr Vinchon regards the latter fact, in St Francis's
case as in the other two, as " the result of the action of spirit on
matter " and thus included in the realm of the metapsychic.
Long-term premonitions : Dr Osty's interesting paper gives details
of various cases of long-term premonitions, dating from several hours
to 37 years before the event. The last case was a prediction of the
death of M. Berteaux, Minister of War, by " un char volant," made
in 1874 and fulfilled in 1911. The prediction was known to several
persons long before its fulfilment.
Dr Osty advances the theory that psycliic subjects can read the
future in the minds of individuals because each in his subconscious
(subliminal) mind is aware of his whole future.
[I wonder that he did not touch upon the remarkable case of Mme
Prryhytska (I think I have the name right) who foretold in France
the defeat of the Poles in their war with the Bolsheviks, at a time
when they were on the full tide of victory, and their final triumph
after defeat.]
Among the books reviewed are : Hypnotisme et Scopochloralose,
by Dr Pascal Brotteaux. The author deals with a new drug, which
is capable of placing unhypnotisable subjects in the somnambuhstic
state. Biodynamique et Radiations, by Dr Jules Reganult ;
Spiritual-
ism face toface with History, Science and Religion, by Roger Glardon.
(An attack on spirituahsm by a Protestant pastor). Mesmer and
his Secret, by Dr J. Vinchon. Clairvoyance, by Professor J. S.
Fernandez, of Buenos Aires.
In the Chronicle an account is given of two cases of forewarning by
Dr Guiseppe Stoppoloni in the Milan journal, Ali del Pensiero.
Zeitschrift filr metapsychische Forschung.
October 1936.—Dr Pap von Chengery and Professor C. Blacher
continue their investigations into the alleged immediate restoration
of objects burnt in their presence at sittings with mediums in Riga.
March 1937 Notes on Periodicals 47
Dr phil. Albert Langer, on F. A. Kordon-Veri's experiments in
telepathy.
A continuation of Professor Kasnacicli's articles on " Mysticism
and Occultism in German Literature ".
Further articles deal with : A case of telepathy (or clairvoyance)
from Greece, annotated by Dr Tanagra ; an article on methods of
deception in Spirit photography ; a case of warning of fire ; a case of
telepathic communication at a distance ; a case in which a widower
heard mysterious calls, which, though a sceptic, he thought might be
from his wife ;
" Phantasms of a dead woman ", which ceased when
the percipient knew that the person seen was dead ; a brief account
of the hfe of John Sloan, the Scottish direct-voice medium, and of his
direct-voice sittings with Mr Arthur Findlay.
In an article entitled " Magic Phenomena in connection with a
town ", Dr Herbert Fritsche of Berlin describes the extraordinary
attraction which Prague has always had for him, his supernormal
acquaintance with it, though he has never been there, and the strange
" prohibition " which prevents him from going there.
Cases of Clairvoyance by M. Fellmanu of BerUn. The author
heard a voice in the night announcing the death of an " old woman ".
Later, through " automatic speech " in the part of the author the
hiding place of some jewellery, belonging to the " old woman " in
question, was found. It is said that she was unknown to the author,
and that no hving person knew where the jewellery was hidden.
Dr C. Schroder (" Our Knowledge of Life after Death ") writes
sceptically concerning spirituahstic phenomena, remarking on a
number of doubtful cases.
H. E. K.
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1937
THE JOURNAL IS FEINTED FOE PEIVATE
CIECULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Jourml in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 534.—Vol. XXX April 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 28 April, igsy, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER
" On Experiments with S. F. Sambor and
other Mediums "
BY
COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO
WILL BE READ
J^.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.45 p.m.. to which Members and
Associates are invited.
D
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
OBITUARY
We deeply regret to record, the death on the r2th March of Mrs F.
W. H. Myers, the widow of one of the founders of the Society. She
joined the Society as an associate on its foundation and later became
a full member. During the early years of the Society, she took an
active and arduous part in her hixsband's work. For instance, Mr
and Mrs Myers held sittings at their house in Cambridge with
numerous mediums, to whom they gave hospitality. When a few
years ago, it was decided to raise a fund to found the F. W. H. Myers
Memorial Lectureship, it was Mrs Myers's generous donation which
ensured the success of the scheme.
NOTICES
The Hon. Librarian
Oaving to increased pressure of her professional duties, Miss K. E.
Watkins is now no longer able to supervise the administration of the
Library, to which she has devoted so much time and ability, and
has therefore resigned her appointment as Hon. Librarian. The
Council wish to place on record their warm appreciation of her
services.
Mr G. H. Spinney, a Member of the Society, has kindly consented
to carry on this work. The Council feel that they are fortunate in
having secured the services of Mr Spinney in this connexion.
A SET OF THE PROCEEDINGS
A complete set of almost new second-hand bound Vols, of the
Proceedings is offered for sale to Members and Associates for £10.
The set consists of Vols. I-XLIII (inclusive).
NEW MEMBERS
Albery, Geo. G., K.C., City Hall, Meaford, Canada.
Caldwell, Dr Harmon W., University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia,
U.S.A.
Churchill, Dr Stella, <S Cumberland Terrace, London, N.W.I.
Lemon, Mrs, 8 Bryanston House, Dorset Street, London, W.l.
Unwin, Mrs, The Firkin, Redhill, Surrey. {Elected March 24th.)
Student Associate
Perceval, Philip E., Old Priory. Brightwell, nr. Wallingford, Berks.
April 1937 Meetings of the Council 51
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 349th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 February 1937, at 2.45 p.m..
The President in the Chair. There were also present ; Sir Ernest
Bennett, M.P., Mr Gerald Heard, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 350th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, immediately after the Annual General Meeting,
the retiring President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir
Lawrence Jones. Bart., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.B.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
One Student Associate was elected. His name and address are
given above.
Lord Rayleigh was elected President for the year 1937.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, Hon. Treasurer, airs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of the
Proceedings, Miss Nea Walker, Hon. Editor of the Journal, and Mr
G. H. Spinney was elected Hon. Librarian.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour,
Professor C. D. Broad, Mr Whately Carington, the Hon. Mrs Alfred
L}-ttelton. G.B.E., Sir OHver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Research Committee : Mr Whately Carington, Mr Eric Cuddon,
Mr Oliver Gatty, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Mr Gerald Heard, Lord
Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr Kenneth
Richmond, Dr T. W. MitcheU, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Mr G. N. M.
Tyrrell.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt and the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas ; also the Secretary, ex officio.
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1937 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr S. Freud, Professor
Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, M.
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Dr Rudolph Tischner, Carl Vett and Dr Elwood Worcester.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, Rev. A. T. Fryer, David
Gow, J. Arthur Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, Rev. W. S. Irving,
Professor J. H. Muirhead, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor
Charles Sage, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr H. W. C. Tenhaeff, Professor R.
H. Thouless and Dr Th. Wereide.
The 351st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 March 1937, at 4 p.m.. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest
Bennett, M.P., Lord Charles Hope, Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas and Miss Nea
AValker ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting (as printed below)
was presented and taken as read.
One new Memberwaselected . Her name and address are given above.
The following co-opted Members of Council were co-opted for the
year 1937-1938 : Dr William Brown, Mr Oliver Gatty, Mr Gerald
Heard, Professor Julian Huxley, Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh, the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas and Miss Nea Walker.
A motion was unanimously carried expressing sympathy with the
family of Mrs F. W. H. Myers, whose death we regret to record
elsewhere.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 147th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 24 March 1937, at 5.30 p.m., The President
in the Chair.
Mr. C. V. C. Herbert read a paper on " Some Recent Investi-
gations carried out by the Society." A summary of the paper will
be printed in a later issue of the Journal.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 February
1937, at 3.30 p.m.. The President in the Chair.
April 1937 Annual General Meeting 53
The following Members were jJreseat : Mrs A. H. Bell, Sir Ernest
Bennett, M.P., Miss Estella Canziani, Miss M. C. Crosfield, Dr E. J.
Dingwall, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Miss Gertrude Johnson, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Dr W. Malone,
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas,
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, Mrs B. VarviU ; and Mr C. F. Wilkins (Asso-
ciate).
The Secretary having read the Notice convening the Meeting, the
President spoke of the loss the Society had sustained through the
death of Mr Sydney C. Scott, who had been a good friend to the
Society for many years, and said that the Society owed a great
deal to him. He also referred to Professor Eraser-Harris's death.
He mentioned the Appeal which the Society is making for a Eund
to provide an Endowment, and hoped that Members would bring
the Appeal to the notice of those who would be hkely to contribute.
He then called upon the Hon. Treasurer, Admiral Strutt, to make
his financial statement.
Admiral Strutt, in presenting the accounts for the year, regretted
to report that the real result of the year was that the Society had
spent £88 more than its income. The lease of 31 Tavistock Square
had fallen in and the Society was put to expense for dilapidations.
That had been met by realising investments made to meet this
contingency out of the Society's savings some years ago. The sur-
plus expenditure of £88 was in addition to the expenditure under
that head, so that next year, if the Society did not make economies,
it would be £88 down again. It was very difficult to see where it
could economise more than it had done recently. There was one
ray of hope because for some time Miss Newton had been engaged
in correspondence with the Revenue authorities, with a view to
obtaining exemption from Income Tax. If this claim for exemption
succeeded, it would mean quite a lot to the Society, not only as
regards the future, but in repayment of tax already paid. He ap-
pealed to members to endeavour to get new members.
The question of reviving the election of Associates was raised :
the Hon. Secretary pointed out the risk that, if this were done,
existing Members might ask to be transferred to the List of Asso-
ciates, which would cause the Society heavy financial loss.
Mr Tyrrell doubted whether the best use was always made of the
mass of facts accumulated by the Society. Much good evidence
tended to slip into obHvion, first because it was not sufficiently
impressed on the public, but still more because the Society had
concentrated on fact to the neglect of theory. In other branches of
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
science the collection of facts, and the construction of tentative
theories to explain them proceeded side by side. He would Uke to
see a periodical assessment of work done, with special attention to
criticism of method. This would be of great help to the individual
worker, who at present was left in uncertainty as to whether the
methods he was using could be considered watertight. The assess-
ment should be done by a Committee of the Society, a summary of
whose conclusions should be sent to the leading psychological
journals.
Dr Dingwall said he would prefer the work of theoretical criticism
to be done by private members, who might form their own groups,
rather than by a Committee whose judgments might appear to
represent the corporate opinion of the Society.
The Hon. Secretary, agreeing with the last speaker, reminded
members that in the Committee of Reference and the Research
Committee they already had two active critical bodies. He hoped
members would submit their own theoretical observations for print-
ing in the Journal or Proceedings.
The President also agreed with Dr Dingwall. He thought there
was no very close analogy between psychical research and the better
estabhshed sciences . It was too much to suppose that any Committee
of the Society could put forward a theory which would account, for
example, for the results of Mr Tyrrell's investigations. He under-
stood it was not easy to get papers on new research work for their
monthly meetings, and thought it would be useful if members would
from time to time work over already pubhshed material critically,
and discuss it at meetings. He thought there was much to be said
for the practice prevailing in some Societies whereby the reader of
the paper showed the paper before it was read to some other person
who was thereby prepared to open a discussion on it.
The question of having occasionally quite short papers, so as to
allow of more time for discussion, was raised, and Mr Gregory
offered to open a discussion meeting of this kind in the near
future.
Mrs Bell, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dame Edith Lyttelton. Sir Ernest
Bennett, and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas also took part in the
discussion.
Dr Dingwall criticised the Appeal for Funds as not being wholly
scientific, either in its terms or in the personality of the signatories.
The President annoimced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council other than the six members
who retired by rotation. The following six members were accord-
ingly elected : Lord Charles Hope, Mr G. AV. Lambert, Dr T. W.
April 1937 Annual General Meeting 55
Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt.
n 1. T7- •
1
The President then moved that the Report and the l^mancial
Statement be adopted. This resolution was seconded by the Rev.
Drayton Thomas and carried unanimously.
Messrs Miall, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the
forthcoming year.
A REPETITION OF DR J. B. RHINE'S WORK IN
EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
By S. G. Soal
At a Private Meeting of the Society on 27 January, the writer gave
an interim report of experiments in Extra-Sensory Perception carried
out by him during the past two and a half years with a view to in-
vestigating the possibilities of Dr Rhine's technique. This work,
done under the auspices of the University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, was undertaken in the Council's laboratory
at 13d Roland Gardens but has been recently transferred to the
Psychological laboratory at University College.
At the time of writing 93 subjects have been tested and upwards
of 70,000 guesses recorded. The cards used were made by a firm of
playing-card manufacturers and are inscribed with five simple t>^3es
of geometrical symbols similar to those employed by Dr Rhine.
Experiments have been made in both Pure Clairvoyance and Un-
differentiated Telepathy.
Special precautions have been taken to ehminate various sources
of error, which may have afi'ected certain of Dr Rhine's results. For
instance the possibihty of the subject's " learning " the cards from
slight marks on their backs has been entirely avoided by making the
subject work through a thousand different cards in succession in the
clairvoyance tests ; in addition each card before being exposed
"
was covered by a rectangle of white cardboard. In the telepathic
series the guesser was separated from the agent and experimenter by
a wooden screen measuring three feet by three and fixed over the
centre of the table. A board fixed beneath the table prevented the
subj ect from obtaining any view of the agent's feet or legs.
A most important innovation from the theoretical standpoint has
been the substitution of a random sequence of cards in place of the
packs used by Dr Rhine which contained exactly five cards of each
symbol. This random distribution was based upon a sequence of
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
random numbers obtained from a table of seven-figure logarithms
and it is believed that by its use many statistical difficulties are
obviated. Care has been taken that the subject or guesser should see
nothing of the process of checking or the actual card sequences that
have appeared.
With the exception of about 800 guesses the whole of the 70,000
experiments have been witnessed and checked by a second person
besides myself. In the clairvoyance tests a duplicate record has
been kept by this witness and in both the telepathic and clairvoyant
experiments duplicate record sheets signed by both witness and
experimenter have been posted by the witness to Dr Joad at the
close of each afternoon's work, in envelopes sealed in the presence of
the witness and myself. In the telepathic series the agent or
transmitter has also assmned the duties of witness and checker.
Each subject has been allowed to work with several different
agents.
Throughout the experiments we have endeavoured to cultivate an
atmosphere of enthusiasm and of optimism as to the favourable out-
come of the work. Encouragement has been given for any apparent
successes and to provide an emotional stimulus considerable money
prizes have been offered for persons able to score 12 or more suc-
cesses in 25 consecutive guesses. Dr Rhine in his correspondence
with me approves in principle of these awards. We have also
experimented with pairs of agents and percipients between whom
a strong emotional link existed but so far such experiments have not
been successful. A few well-known trance mediums and automatic
writers have been tested but without success. Whenever a subject
has suggested that he or she would be able to work better at home
I have where possible visited the subject's home and tried the
experiments there, being careful to maintain the same rigid condi-
tions of experimental control which throughout our work have never
been relaxed.
Persons of many nationahties have been tested including English,
Germans, Greeks, Indians and Egyptians. After many hundreds of
hours of patient work a few inferences and convictions begin to
emerge. It does not seem probable that Dr Rhine's techniques
%vill afford so easy a means of demonstrating telepathy and clair-
voyance in the psychological laboratory as might have been inferred
from a perusal of his book " Extra-Sensory Perception ". In the
case of a considerable percentage of our 93 subjects the examination
has been by no means superficial since many subjects have carried
out more than 2000 guesses each. Yet we have not discovered
more than three or four persons whose scores were sufficiently
Apkil 1937 Bepetition of Dr J. B. Bhine's Work 57
remarkable to warrant further examination. The most interesting
of these was a lady living at Eichmond who scored 238 successes at
undifferentiated telepathy in a series of 1000 guesses. Two different
agents were employed, the subject scoring about equally well with
each. The experiments took place in the percipient's home and are
still in progress. Another lady in a clairvoyance series obtained
two scores of 11 and one of 13 in a sequence of 10 consecutive sets
of 25 guesses but although she continued with the experiments until
she had completed 3000 guesses she achieved nothing of farther
interest. Another subject at University College has produced a
remarkable run of " low " scoring, obtaining only 46 successes in a
sequence of 350 guesses in undifferentiated telepathy including two
sets of 25 with zero score. This case is being investigated further.^
Whether such results as these represent flashes of extra-sensory per-
ception or are merely the high peaks which chance throws up above
the general level of mediocrity will only be settled by a more
intensive examination of the individuals who produce such
" sports ".
As regards " mass ""
results two interesting effects are worthy of
note although neither is sufficiently marked yet to afford basis for
any conclusions. In the clairvoyance series carried out under perfect
conditions of control there appears to be a certain tendency for a
number of individuals to score below chance expectation ; this
effect if confirmed by further work would lend some support to
Dr Rhine's claim for the existence of a " negative " type of extra-
sensory perception.
The second effect appears only in the telepathic series and consists
of a more or less general tendency to score runs of five or more
successes in unbroken sequence considerably in excess of what chance
would predict. One subject scored three such runs of five in 1000
guesses. If this effect should be confirmed by further research it
would suggest that for most people telepathy—if it occurs at all
—
takes place in very brief flashes, possibly as Mr Tyrrell suggests, in
moments of mental distraction. The small experience we have had
with subjects in trance and hypnosis however does seem to suggest
that not all states of mental dissociation necessarily favour the
emergence of the telepathic impulse ; we have not so far found that
persons in hypnosis or self-induced trance produce noticeably superior
scores to those obtained in a normal state.
The possibilities of leakage by involuntary whispering in the
1 At the time of writing this subject has scored only 168 successes in 1000
guesses as against a chance expectation of 200.
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
telepathic series (where the distance between agent and subject was
about five feet) has not yet been investigated but it is hoped that the
experiments of Mr R. B. Pillai in subhminal auditory perception
now in progress in the Psychological department will be invaluable
to us in this connection.
A fairly complete statistical analysis has been made of the first
50,000 guesses and I shall be pleased to loan a copy of the tables
to any student of the subject who is interested.
In conclusion, I would wish to emphasise that although the ex-
periments have been so far largely (though not entirely) productive
of negative results they cannot be considered as invalidating in any
way Dr Rhine's own work. Genuine telepathic percipients are
probably rather rare and the discovery of one or more such persons
in a group of 90 individuals may be largely a matter of good or bad
luck. Women who exceed six feet in height are also rather rare and
one might select a random batch of 90 women and find that it did
not contain a single specimen. But it would be absurd to draw any
conclusions as to the non-existence of very tall women upon such a
limited survey.
It is to be hoped that many other competent workers will be in-
duced to carry out similar repetitions of Dr Rhine's work so that a
far more extensive survey of this very interesting field of human
faculty may be available.
INSTANCES OF APPARENT CLAIRVOYANCE
Mr C. V. C. Herbert, the sitter, feels that the following extracts
from sittings with Miss Jacqueline and Miss Campbell contain
descriptions which seem to apply to the same house. In sending
the extracts he remarks that they are the best instances of apparent
clairvoyance of which he has had personal experience and that he
cannot explain them by any normal hypothesis.
Extracts from shorthand notes of a sitting with Miss Jacqueline
held on April 3 1935, at the British College of Psychic
Science.
Sitter : C. V. C. Herbert.
Note.—This appointment was not prearranged, but was taken
unexpectedly. Miss Jacquehne being in the building, when another
Apeil 1937 Instances of Apparent Clairvoyance 59
" medium " rejected the sitter on the plea of indisposition. So far
as is known, Mr Herbert was anonymous to Miss Jacquehne.
Record of sitting
Subject : . . . Now I don't
know where I am for the moment
but I am abroad, I know that.
I have gone across the water
—
where, I cannot tell you, and it
is very sunny where I am stand-
ing. I seem to be standing here
and I look up and just Uke that,
through the roadway or the
drive, and I am looking at a
house that is white or cream.
You know the place, don't you ?
Sitter : I do indeed, yes.
That is very interesting.
Subject : . . . Would there be
a tennis court or some outdoor
games in the grounds of this
house, or can I see you in flannels
there ? Is there a lawn there ?
I seem to get green. I am seeing
the house now, and I am abroad
again.
Sitter : Yes ? That is very
interesting.
Subject : And I feel here a
contact with air and water. Now
why I get both I don't know, but
I know that they are Hnked.
Sitter : I see, yes. Is there
any more about that same place
because that is very interesting ?
Subject: I don't know wheth-
er it is the name of the place or
whose name they are trying to
say to me but I get either 6 or 7
letters in it. Is it your name or
a place ? I am not quite sure.
Sitter : I don't know unless
one gets a httle more.
Notes by sitter
A good description of my sis-
ter's villa in Corsica, where I
spent most of last year. Corsica
is a very sunny cHmate, and the
house, which is white stone,
stands up from the road.
No tennis court ; but I always
wore flannel trousers or shorts
when in Corsica. No lawn ; but
a large garden.
The house is close to the sea.
Corsica has seven letters, so
has Herbert.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
Subject : ... If I get to the
back of this house I see a big,
wavy, . . . wait a minute ... I
seem to be looking far away
across ... I have a view there,
do you see ?
Sitter ; Yes.
Subject : And I feel there is
a very old-fashioned cradle in
the house, or something that
looks to be something like a
cradle, and I feel it is pecuhar.
Nothing modern at all. And I
take you on to the first
landing.
Sitter : Yes ?
Subject : And I feel it is very
lofty where I am.
Sitter : Yes.
Subject : And I have turned
to my right, and I can get in a
room there. Now there is some-
thing ... I have passed an
open door on my left, I
think.
Sitter ; Yes.
Subject : Something peculiar
I could only get a glimpse of, and
I have gone to the room there,
and I am looking ahead of
me.
Sitter : Yes ?
Subject : You know where I
am, don't you ?
Sitter : Yes.
Subject : And it is light
where I am, . . . and I feel the
windows looking in some way
long, they come near me. I am
conscious of being able to make
... I don't have to look out. . . .
There is a magnificent view
from the house in Corsica.
No cradle.
The first floor rooms are much
higher than those on the ground
floor.
Turning to the right at the top
of the stairs, the first door on the
right is my bedroom, there is a
door on the left, which was often
left open. .
It is a very hght room.
There are two long French
windows, one opening on to a
verandah.
April 1937 Instances of Apparent Clairvoyance 61
Extracts from sitter s longhand notes of sitting with Miss
Frances Camjjbell held on May 17 1935.
Sitter : C. V. C. Herbert.
Note.—So far as is known, the sitter was anon}Tnous to Miss
Campbell ; the sitting was arranged through the Eev. C. Drayton
Thomas.
Record of sitting
Subject : There is a property
in a hilly district. The house is
painted white or made of white
material. The garden was orig-
inally very elaborate, but is not
so now. There is a field or
ground which originally formed
part of the property, but which
has now been disposed of. Now
there is only the house and
garden. Some people are anx-
ious to sell the house. They
ought to do so. It is important
that it should be sold ;
possibly
owing to the difficulty of getting
to the place. One has to go over
the water. If they took more
trouble, they would be more
likely to sell it.
Not far from the house is a
church. There are two people
who were connected with the
house who are connected with
the church. There was a man
connected with the house for
whom I get the initial W.
Sitter : No, I cannot get
that. Not W.
Subject : William, I get
Wilham.
Sitter : Yes, that is right. I
remember now.
Notes by sitter
My sister, Mrs Trefusis, has a
house and garden near Ajaccio
in Corsica. She is anxious to sell
it. The house is made of white
stone and cement. The country
round is very hilly. The garden
was at one time very elaborate,
and was the show place of the
district. The property was orig-
inally much larger, but now con-
sists only of the house and
garden. My sister, though anx-
ious to sell, has not taken any
very active steps for the dis-
posal of the house. One of the
principal disadvantages of the
property for an Enghsh person
is the tiresome sea journey from
the mainland to Corsica.
There is an English church in
Ajaccio, about two miles from
the house. The widow of the
original builder of the house and
her daughter live in the presby-
tery of the Church and look after
it. My sister bought the house
from General Sir William Mann-
ing.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1937
REVIEW
The Med.iumshipofMaria Silhert. ByAdalbert Evian. Translated by
H.E.Kennedy. (Rider and Co., London. 1936.) Pricel0s.6d.net.
On August 30, 1936, there died in Austria one of the most in-
teresting of the Continental mediums, Maria Silbert, of Graz, who
was famous not only in her own country but also in England where
she had created a great impression.
This volume is by one of her most devoted Austrian disciples, who
has clearly had unequalled opportunities for observing her pheno-
mena. As a work of scientific interest it is worthless, but as illus-
trating the minds of those over whom Frau Silbert cast her influence
it is by no means without value. For whatever may be said in her
favour or against her it can scarcely be denied that she had the
power of making the majority of her sitters act, in the words of the
late Dr Prince, like unsophisticated children. Indeed it may be said
that the profound contempt that she had for her investigators was,
partly at least, the secret of her power. In the majority of cases her
attitude convinced them of her sincerity : in others it broke her
spell. Once convinced, the convert will believe almost anything.
To see learned men of academic distinction sit round the table with
Frau Silbert in full light and to hear their delighted cries when
the old lady kicked their legs was a sight not willingly forgotten.
It was a key which opened the door to much which was obscure. It
revealed states of mind rarely seen outside the seance room.
It must not be thought, however, that Frau Silbert contented
herself with this nonsense. It was not on this basis that her fame
rested. When away from home she showed her powers to a degree
in certain directions which was not common in her own circle.
This was due to the fact that she knew that she had to gain her
converts by showing them wonders which they could not explain
however hard they tried. Once they were converted then she knew
that she could rest from her labours and, beaming at them, kick
their legs in full light under the table and be greeted with the same
ecstatic cries of pleasure as those which were given when her more
startUng feats were performed. For it must be admitted that the
phenomena of Frau Silbert, when she was at her best, were very
remarkable. Not only had she mastered the art of misdirection to
an unusual degree, but she combined it with a skill and a dexterity
in manipulation which at times were indeed noteworthy. Coupled
with these gifts she exhibited a pleasing and motherly personality
with a winning smile and the general appearance of a benign old
lady, smiling upon her sitters, and herself astonished at the occur-
rences around her. Although it is now known how the majority of
April 1937 Review 63
her phenomena were produced, the modus operandi of some of her
effects has never been pubhshed and indeed had better remain un-
known lest others learn it. In certain respects some of her methods
were the most brilliant examples of misdirection coupled with ex-
treme dexterity that I have ever seen ; and it was curious to see how
often she would lapse into crude bungling when she thought that the
sitters would not be able to notice any difference.
It is only by bearing these facts in mind that we can understand
the growth of that legendary figure which this book reveals. Around
her clustered tales of marvel which might be imagined purely fiction-
al if we had not met those in the flesh who beheved them in their
entirety. Many of the phenomena recorded by Herr Evian may be
compared with those narrated of D. D. Home. Thus on one occasion
the author of this book saw Frau Silbert pass through a solid wooden
door : on another occasion, during a drive in an automobile, he
records the fact that the mediumship of the old lady supplied the
motive power for the vehicle, which travelled over long stretches of
road and often up steep hills without the aid of the engine. Again,
one day twenty-five pairs of shoes walked round the seance room by
themselves in red light ; and on another occasion the seance table
was smashed to pieces and a hundred photographic negatives in the
table drawer were broken, the glass being strewn about the floor.
Next day, however, the table was as sound as ever and all the plates
were again whole and arranged in the drawer. Frau Silbert's
mediumship had been working in the night. Similarly we are in-
formed that when in London the medium was placed in a sack, and
fastened with electric handcuffs ; and at one sitting had three
Nobel prize winners as sitters. It is unfortunate that the authorities
at the institution where all this is alleged to have happened write to
me stating that they were unaware of these things.
It would be wrong to throw down this book as a romance or a
collection of fabrications. Maybe it is both but it is more than that.
It is a picture of the beUever's mind. In Frau Silbert were com-
bined imusual powers, and it is not surprising that there are many
persons ahve today who continue to beheve that her phenomena
were supernormal. Like most really first-class tricks they were
inexpHcable to all not fully trained to understand such things.
Indeed I know conjurers who saw her and were completely baffled
by some of the things they saw. Her work was not in their line. It
was a thing by itself, and it was a beautiful thing to watch once the
secrets were known. It was only when the method was understood
that the artistry of Frau Silbert became apparent. Had she not
regarded her sitters with so much disdain it is possible that she
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apeil 1937
might have succeeded to a greater extent than she did. For they
were not all like Herr Evian. To him we must at least be grateful
for this volume. As a modern example of what belief in the occult
can do for the modern mind it is valuable. For an understanding of
Frau Silbert it is important, and it is to be hoped that those who
still believe in the genuineness of her phenomena will take heed. I
doubt it for (as La Fontaine wrote),
" Chacun tourne en realites,
Autant qu'il pent, ses propres songes :
L'homme est de glace aux Veritas,
II est de feu pour les mensonges."
E. J. Dingwall
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 635.—Vol, XXX May 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meetino- for Discussion
o
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 26 May, igjy, at 5.30 p.m,
WHEN
Mr C. C. L. GREGORY
WILL READ A SHORT PAPER
" On the Possibilities of a Theory of Psychical
Research,"
. AND
Mr G. N. M. TYRRELL
will open the Discussion.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
E
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
NOTICE.
Members will observe from the notice of the Meeting on the 26th
May that it is to be of a type rather different from the usual meetings
of the Society. The Meeting has been arranged in order to carry
out a suggestion made at the Annual General Meeting, that from
time to time discussion meetings should be held at which a subjec^
should be briefly introduced by one speaker, that a second speaker,
who knew the line the first speaker was going to take, should follow
with a short comment, and that after that the subject should be
open for general discussion among members present, who would
have greater opportunity for stating their views than is possible
when, as usually happens, the paper read at a meeting takes three-
quarters of an hour or upwards.
If the meeting arranged for May, which is by way of an experi-
ment, proves a success, it is intended from time to time to have
other meetings of the same kind. It is hoped that members wiU
come prepared beforehand to take part in the discussion.
THE GHOST AS A PSYCHIC PHENOMENON ^
Dr. H. Godwin Baynes
It would be not only reckless but unprofitable to embark upon a
discussion of the spirit-world without first circumscribing the
terrain. As a physician approaching the field from the side of
medical psychology I find, however, a piece of ground already
cleared. But this claim docs not correspond altogether with that
of psychical research. Our psychological investigations have
unwittingly quickened an interest in ghosts, because these play a
symbolical role in the subliminal dramas with which the psycho-
therapist has to deal. Psychical research, on the other hand, tends
to pursue its interest in the ghost as an independent phenomenon,
existing in and for itself ; its relativity in the scheme of general
psychic causahty being a secondary consideration, if not ignored
altogether.
The psycho-therapist encounters certain psycho-neurotic states
which, by their very nature, compel him to make use of the primitive
concept of possession. These ghost-effects are very real. A
psycho-neurotic personality often behaves as though an ahen will
1 This Paper was read by Dr. H. Godwin Baynes at a Private Meeting of
the Society on 25th November 1936. Hon. Ed.
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon 67
-possessed him. He also has dreams in which a ghost appears in his
room, or in which he is being pm'sued by a sinister demonic figure
whom he cannot evade. But, although the effect is alien in char-
acter, its causation is intelligible, and the conditions of its appearance
are sometimes predictable.
We have the advantage, therefore, of being able to study the
natural history of the ghost from an inside position. Whereas the
scientific investigator, who has to sift the accounts of a number of
excited witnesses who may or may not have hallucinated apparitions
or strange noises, is in a different case. For he must needs deter-
mine how much or how little should be ascribed to general suggesti-
bility, how much of the experience has been unconsciously trimmed
to suit the supposed expectations of the investigator, and even, where
a relatively convincing consensus gentium exists, he has to determine
where a fine can be drawn between the subjective constellation in
the witnesses' psychology and the unknown factor which can be
regarded as an external activating force. In these cases the psychi-
cal context, by virtue of which the ghostly appearance would fit into
a relatively intelligible sequence of events, is usually lacking and,
therefore, the apparition is left suspended, as it were, in a super- or
sub-normal unreality.
The question of setting, or frame, or context, is the primary con-
sideration in the understanding of all psychic phenomena. In the
field of natural science we are accustomed to draw certain logical
conclusions from the objective aspect and behaviour of the things
observed, since natural science proceeds on the assumption that
nature is rational. But as soon as we cross over into the field of
so-called psychic phenomena, a purely objective account of the
phenomena is found to be inadequate. For example, an objective
record of Saul's critical journey to Damascus including the subject's
account of the divine apparition in heaven and his subsequent
change in character and attitude, savours of the miraculous only
because the full subjective context is lacking. If this be added,
we can get a glimpse of that split-off subliminal personality which
was gradually assimilating the Christian spirit, the while the con-
scious personality Saul was fanatically over-compensating his own
doubt by drastic persecution of the Christians. We might be able
to detect certain signs, as the nascent Christian complex waxed in
power in the unconscious subjective hinterland, until it finally
broke through the threshold of consciousness, throwing Saul to the
ground and declaring its superior energy-content by its apparitional
manifestation in an aura of white light. From now onwards the
previous conscious personahty and standpoint is repressed as an
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
unworthy antithesis to the victorious Christian thesis, finding only
a spasmodic pathological expression in the guise of epileptiform fits.
The very fact that we are able to make this fairly intelligible
reconstruction of what seemed to our forefathers a miraculous
occurrence does not mean that we have, thereby, explained the
overwhelming impression of a genuine rehgious experience. But it
does mean that we are able to rescue a large tract of human ex-
perience from the realm of magic and mystery, and to bring it
within the province of understanding. Instead of viewing an
isolated disjuncted marvel in the skies, we are able to piece together
an orderly sequence of events which reveals an inherent purposive-
ness. This has been made possible by carrying the agnostic spirit
of scientific enquiry into the realm of psychic events.
In psychological practice we frequently encounter facts that seem
scarcely credible ; facts that appear at first so irrational that we
almost despair of embracing them in a scientific corpus. But in
so far as the hving individual, who alone is able to provide the
psychic context of these strange events, is sitting solidly before us,
the lamp of reason refuses to be extinguished, and with it we are
sometimes enabled to find the rational thread of continuity. The
hypothesis which has supplied the golden thread in the labyrinth
of the psyche is the conception that all psychic activity is pur-
posive. This golden thread of purposive activity is, however,
rarely supplied by the patient's conscious account of his experience.
The clue is usually found in his dreams or fantasies. These spon-
taneous products of the mind reveal the unconscious causal nexus
which makes the conscious history intelligible.
The unconscious is merely a term which comprises everything
that exists, that has existed, or that could exist beyond the range
of this individual consciousness. It is therefore a relative condition,
since what is unconscious to-day may be conscious to-morrow, and
vice versa. So long as consciousness in the early days of last centiiry
was limited, for example, l^y the concept of miraculous or divine
creation, the continuity of the evolutionary process was an un-
conscious content, but it was none the less a fact. And in so far as
general consciousness to-day still regards the mental process as
synonymous with consciousness, it must necessarily regard every
projection of unconscious psychic activity as aspects of objective
reality. For if the continuity between the emergent form and its
antecedent germination in the unconscious is not perceived by
consciousness, it is held not to exist. And when this continuity is
demonstrated, it frequently happens that the individual concerned
feels that in some way his faith has been undermined. Very few
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon 69
can tolerate the truth that what is attributed to fate represents
the sum of unconscious psychic motivations, and that the all-
embracing paternal image is a condensation of inherited experience.
I beUeve everyone resents these psychological explanations, because
in the West the concept of the psyche has been cheapened by a x^hole
host of opinion-pedlars and wisdom-mongers who offer cheap ex-
planations with the air of a scientific pandit. A cheap explanation
explains things away, whereas our best scientific theory merely
removes one veil from the muffled figure of truth. We use the term
psyche as though the name gave us power over the thing named.
But in fact we cannot even locate the psyche, while its contents and
activities are, to a large extent, unknown to us and beyond our
conscious control. When science invades the province that hitherto
has been guarded by rehgious taboo it has to tread warily ; for it is
sacred ground.
In certain eastern countries, or amongst savage peoples, the voices
of the insane are regarded as the utterances of a spirit, and arouse
veneration and awe. Whereas with us, who know that the state of
insanity means to be in the grip of irrational ideas, no heed is given
to what issues from the mouths of the possessed ; unless one happens
to be a Dostoievsky or a Jung.
Psychological explanation then is a scientific attempt to make
the sequence of psychic events intelhgible. But a purely rational
account is never satisfactory because the nature of unconscious
activity is primitive and therefore non-rational in character. Our
best hope, then, is to make use of the non-rational symbol-language
of the unconscious, even though a symbol can never be completely
transposed into intellectual terms. Our experience of our underlying
primitive psychology consists at times of ghosts, and demons and
other mythological denizens. During the experience these things
are our reality. Hence our conscious reaction to these experiences
must take into account the non-rational, dynamic character of the
pure experience. And yet, because the ruler of consciousness is the
reason, our account must also be essentially reasonable. Our worst
danger is to use our scientific intellect as a defence against the
experience of the primordial unconscious. Science is knowledge,
and to experience ourselves must involve a certain responsibihty
concerning the knowledge we have gained. If I know, for instance,
that certain so-called accidents which befall me, or certain bad
effects I see in my children, or my household have their source in
my unconscious psychology, I must choose between making my
children my scapegoats or taking responsibihty for my own psycho-
logy. I cannot any longer assume that I don't know.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
Now, this is the situation in which the problem of the ghost has-
placed us. There is not one of us who is free of responsibiUty
concerning the ghosts of the past. We imagine we have bought'
off fate by our superior education, but actually we are haunted by
bewildered and dissatisfied spirits. Ancestor-worship is to be
foimd wherever culture has spread. Gifts and food and funerary
rites, as are to be seen in China to-day, did not spring solely out of
veneration for the honoured dead. Originally they were the means,
of satisfying the ghosts, in order that they should not afflict the
living with their ghostly craving for life. When Dr Jung and I
were camping among the Elgonyi on Mount Elgon, we frequently
came across little ghost-houses by the side of the path leading to a
house or village. The Httle houses had two or more rooms, and
milk and corn and other attractions were placed in them, so that
the spirits might stay there and not go on to the village and make
people sick. The ghosts of dead relatives and ancestors are par-
ticularly to be feared as the cause of illness. The most difficult and
responsible office of the shaman among Siberian tribes, or of the
laibon in East Africa, is hterally the cure of souls. Heahng the sick
is considered to be a relatively elementary art. Shamans of the
lower grades can undertake doctoring, but only the highest grade
of shaman can shepherd the souls of the dead. In Lamaism also
the ultimate store of traditional wisdom is reserved for instructing
the dead. The spirits have to be enticed, or led away from the
habitations of the living to the place where they can dwell in safety.
In Uganda we were allowed to see one of these houses, to which the
ghosts are led. They are really churches. Often a considerable
amount of art and devotion has been given to these ghost-houses
where the spirits of the ancestors are housed. The churches of
our English shires, standing in consecrated ground among the
graves of the dead, are really ghost-houses.
From this point of view God would be the great ancestor-spirit
who must be very securely housed, lest He should wander into the
village and make people mad or sick. The act of consecration is a
magical ritual designed to set apart this special plot of ground in
which the ghosts of the dead are magically contained. We have
lost sight of the original psychological necessity which set apart the
Gottesacker with its graves and spirit-house as a piece of consecrated
ground ; but comj)arison with the primitive homologue shows us
that in spite of our ideal superstructure, the groimd-plan of our
civilized religious structure is identical with the primitive conception.
Mr John Layard tells me that in Malekula, an island of the New
Hebrides, the most pressing need in every person's hfe is to have a.
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon 71
pig or pigs which, in the event of death, can be sacrificed to placate
the bad female ghost Lehevhev, so that the soul may travel safely
to the volcano where the ancestor-spirits dwell. At the end of the
great Sumerian epic, Gilgamish, we find the closing stanzas con-
cerned with the description of the ghosts fomid in the underworld
by Enkidu's spirit, and how their fate is determined by the way they
died and the way in which they are remembered by their survivmg
relatives.
Just as good manners consist in bearing in mind the shadow of the
living, as, for instance, face-saving in China, or in Africa, the careful
avoidance of a man's shadow, and here at home, the instinctive
consideration for the complexes of one's friends ;
so piety consists
in taking care of the ghosts. Many primitive people will never
chastise their children because the child is inhabited by an ancestor-
spirit. Similarly a snake that comes into a house is protected and
fed, because it contains an ancestor-spirit. The care of sacred
animals, as, for instance, the sacred cows and apes of India, the
totem animal, or the creature who becomes your tinihowi, ]! you
are an Achumawi Indian—all these pious exercises are mspired by
veneration for the spirits.
Nearly all peoples in whom ghost-psychology plays a vital role
discriminate between bad ghosts who seduce or, in some way,
ahenate the living from their proper way (often they are vampires
and were-wolves), and the good spirits who want to be reborn, or
to participate positively in life. I remember a paranoid case of
dementia praecox who three times attempted her own life. After
leaping from the top of a house, she told me that her mother and
her lover were calhng her to join them in the spirit-land, and that
her leap was done in pure ecstasy. On one occasion during the
Easter Passion-week she attempted her life because Our Lord was
calling her to join Him. At other times He spoke to her out of
\ heaven, revealing to her the iimer nature of the universe, a kind of
secret doctrine which she had to teach to all who could Hsten with
their hearts. Thus, in this woman's experience, Christ was at one
time a bad ghost seducing her to suicide, at another He was a
celestial source of illumination and guidance ;
in other words, a
guardian spirit.
Luther had this same ambiguous conception of God. He said
than when God was in the heavens He was all majesty and power ;
the God of our ideals. But sometimes He absconded and in a
concealed form drove men mad or compelled them to every kind of
irrationality. He called this nether aspect of God the deus ah-
sconditus. _
•
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
The Chinese also make a distinction between the shen soul and the
hwei soul. The character for shen means to expand, to rise up.
It is the divine substance which rises up and leads to deliverance.
The hwei is daemonic, compulsive, and chngs to the concrete and
earthy. The meaning of kwei is ghost-being. In Egypt the
ka-soul was the double or shadow, and tended to chng to the
material body.
This ambivalency also appears in the primitive attitude to spirits.
It is illustrated very beautifully in an account of a Siberian shaman,
given by Leo Sternberg, the Russian anthropologist, in a paper on
Divine Election in Primitive Religion. He was impressed by the
fact that behind all the favourable or unfavourable events in a
primitive man's life the activities of good or bad spirits are always
presupposed. As an example, he cites the case of a young shaman
of the Gold tribe whose sincerity attracted him. He records this
man's life-history as follows :
" My ancestors lived in the village of Urmil (15 versts from
Chabarovsk). Their gens is said to have migrated there from the
lower reaches of the Amur. Long, long ago, we were Ainu. The
old folks say that some generations back there were three great
shamans of my gens. No shamans were known amongst my
nearest forefathers. My father and mother enjoyed perfect health.
I am now forty years old. I am married, but have no children.
Up to the age of twenty I was quite well. Then I fell ill, my whole
body ailed me, I had bad headaches. Shamans tried to cure me,
but it was all of no avail. When I began shamaning myself, I got
better and better. It is now ten years that I have been a shaman,
but at first I used to practise for myself only, and it is three years
ago only that I took to curing other people. A shaman's practice
is very, very fatiguing, it is much harder than felling trees, but there
is nothing to be done about that.
" Once I was asleep on my sick-bed, when a spirit approached
me. It was a very beautiful woman. Her figure was very slight,
she was no more than half an arshin (71 cm.) tall. Her face and
attire were quite as those of one of our Gold women. Her hair
fell down to her shoulders in short black tresses. Other shamans
say they have had the vision of a woman with one-half of her face
black, and the other half red. She said :
'
I am the " ayami " of
your ancestors, the Shamans. I taught them shamaning. Now
I am going to teach you. The old shamans have died off, and there
is no one to heal people. You are to become a shaman.'
" Next she said :
'
I love you, I have no husband now, you wiU
be my husband and I shall be a wife unto you. I shall give you
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomown 73
assistant spirits. You are to heal with their aid, and I shall teach
and help you myself. Food will come to us from the people.'
" I felt dismayed and tried to resist. Then she said :
'
If you
will not obey me, so much the worse for you. I shall kill you.'
" She has been coming to me ever since, and I sleep with her as
with my own wife, but we have no children. She lives quite by
herself without any relatives in a hut on a mountain, but she often
changes her abode. Sometimes she comes under the aspect of an
old woman, and sometimes as a winged tiger. I mount her and she
takes me to show me different countries. I have seen mountains,
where only old men and women live, and villages, where you see
nothing but young people, men and women : they look like Golds
and speak Goldish, sometimes those people are turned into tigers.
Now my ayami does not come to me as frequently as before. For-
merly, when teaching me, she used to come every night. She has
given me three assistants—the '
jarga '
(panther), the '
doonto
'
(the bear), and the '
amba '
(the tiger). They come to me in my
dreams, and appear whenever I summon them while shamaning.
If one of them refuses to come, the ayami makes them obey, but,
they say, there are some who do not obey even the '
ayami '. When
I am shamaning, the '
ayami ' and the assistant spirits are possessing
me : whether big or small, they penetrate me, as smoke or vapour
would. When the '
ayami '
is within me, it is she who speaks
through my mouth, and she does everything herself."
This, as you see, is an interesting case because it is an uncon-
taminated psychological record of the conversion of a daemonic, ob-
sessing ghost into a helpful, guiding spirit. Furthermore, it supports
our idea that the possessing-ghost is a manifestation of the famihal
or racial imconscious. In general, there are two distinct causes of
sickness among so-called primitive peoples. The one is the loss
or absence of a soul, the other is possession by an alien spirit. In
the former case a man feels he has lost something which is normally
his : virtue has gone out of him. In the latter he is invaded by
some influence or power which has estranged him from his normal
being. Something, in fact, has got into him.
From this point of view the soul in the former case represents a
certain quantum of vital energy which receded out of consciousness
into the personal subconscious, where it was no longer immediately
available.
The concept of spirit or ghost, on the contrary, always represents
either a welcome or an unwelcome intrusion. The Holy Ghost and
the hierarchy of angels and archangels on the one side and Satan
the Evil Spirit with all his fascisti on the other, are highly elaborated
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 193T
conceptions of universal psychic factors which appear under ana-
logous forms in every human society.
In every-day psycho-therapeutic practice we encounter precisely
similar conditions to those described above ;
namely, losing a soul
or being invaded by a spirit. A patient, for instance, complains
that her interest in her work and in her friends has disappeared.
Her voice has no resonance, her narration of the events of her life
is a dull monotone, her face is expressionless and her outlook is
that of an imprisoned victim. She is afflicted by a profound sense
of inferiority which constantly insinuates that she has no right to
burden me or anyone else with her misery. When we look at her
dream-life we find a copious activity in the unconscious which flows
along entirely independent of consciousness. Consciously she finds
no interest or meaning in her dreams, but she records them dutifully.
From her dreams it is quite clear what has happened to her. She
is the daughter of a policeman and was brought up on the supposition
that what was reqviired of her was to behave in a certain way. Value
was not given to her as a unique individuahty, but only in so far as-
her behaviour conformed to collective requirements. In fact, she
was not loved, but merely drilled. She had a good intelligence, and
with it she was able to gain a certain independent position, but only
as an intellectual machine in scientific institutions.
This way of life offered no possibihty at all for her emotional and
instinctual needs. Therefore her soul flew away. In other words,,
the flow of instinctive energy receded into the xmconscious and left
her bereft hke a marooned mariner on a desert island. This patient
dreamed that her blood was being sucked by a vampire ghost. The
soul that flies away is apt to become a renegade.
This case is an example of a great class of disabled individuals.
The sense of insufficiency or inferiority (what is termed the in-
feriority-complex) is, according to our experience, always due to the
fact that an essential function has dropped away, or has been left
dormant in the personal subconscious. It is a part of the personahty
which needs to be hved and, therefore, its absence from consciousness
is felt as a crippling loss.
With such cases the therapeutic aim is to recover the lost function,,
first by a thorough-going recognition of the actual condition, and
then by a work of assimilation or reintegration of the absent function
into the conscious personality. An attitude of acceptance of the
unconscious is the primary necessity in these cases.
With the other type of case we find that the normal, healthy
personahty has become infected by an archaic, daemonic and highly
irrational complex which is hable suddenly to invade consciousness.
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon 75
in the form of an obsessional idea or craving, sometimes in out-
breaks of explosive violence which have apparently no rational
cause. The elfect of these irruptions is to ahenate the personalitjr
to such an extent that the whole expression undergoes a change.
One can tell in an instant, whether the real personahty is present, or
the invading one. With these cases the mental disturbance alfects
other people in the milieu and, in the worst cases, may even tyrannize
like the evil spirit which from time to time inhabited King Saul, or
like the demon Asmodeus who possessed Sara.
Jung demonstrated, in his researches in the field of Dementia
Praecox, that this phenomenon of possession was due to the spas-
modic activation of an autonomous complex. He also showed that
the hallucinatory projections and the unbridled force of the complex
were due to its pathological independence from the normal self-
regulating coordination of the psychic contents. As soon as the
complex can be pierced by the full rays of conscious insight, it
gradually assumes a relative character and loses its daemonic power.
Occasionally a spht-off function assumes a relative autonomy,
thus borrowing the character of a famihar spirit without pathological
consequences. The daimon of Socrates would be such a case, in
which the intuitive function takes on a kind of separate activity in
the marginal region of the mind.
In certain hysterical patients, where there is a one-sided and
abnormal activity of the sympathetic system, and a correspondingly
defective conscious fmiction, the surplus of energy is liable to
explode or spill over in a quite irrational way. In such cases it is
by no means uncommon for objects in the immediate environment
to be broken, or a certain animal in the patient's neighbourhood to
begin to behave in an erratic symptomatic fashion.
It seems to me probable that this externahzing of vital energy in
hysterical patients is of the same order as the various manifestations
of aberrant energy in mediumistic seances. They are equally devoid
of purpose or psychical content, and their sole interest rests upon the
fact that energy, which is normally organized in a psychological
system, suddenly assumes an erratic behaviour in the objective
field. From the psychological standpoint this spiUing over of
psychic energy on an infra-psychic level must be regarded as
pathological and also, in a sense, as rather tiresome. One soon
wearies of stunts which, at bottom, have no aim or purpose other
than challenging one's creduhty. In saying this I do not, of course,
include the genuine psychic experiments that have been seriously
conducted for a number of years, and the results of which have
served to expand our conception of psychic possibilities in a very
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
lemarkable way. But everyone will, I think, agree that in the
realm of so-called psychic phenomena, there is a considerable portion
Tvhich belongs properly to the province of physics. In all pro-
bability these manifestations of erratic energy in mediumistic
seances will eventually be measured by physical instruments and
the whole atmosphere of the super-normal will depart from them.
If we leave this aspect of spiritistic experiments to be taken care of
by the physicists, we come to those border-line phenomena which
leally demand a thorough-going psychological investigation. This
research should embrace all the dynamic psychological factors
present in the seance-group, particularly the origin of the main trend
of interest by which the control of the evening has been constellated.
It has often been observed how the presence of a particular person-
ality in the group activates a sympathetic complex in the group
imconscious.
Every avenue of psychological exploration should be exhausted
before the alternative hypothesis of an extra-psychic presence can
be estabUshed.
In making these explorations we have to take into account two
kinds of subjective ghost-complexes which are liable to become
activated in individual participants by the highly suggestible
atmosphere of the seance. The one is the complex of a specific
bereavement in which the psychic energy that was invested in the
dead person is held in the unconscious and therefore excluded from
active participation in life. This is the ghost-effect coming from
the past. The other is more difficult to explore, because it arises
from a future potentiality that is not yet active in consciousness.
As a rule, we can only understand these manifestations by subse-
quent observations of the life- interest of the persons forming the
group.
It might be well to discuss the psychology of these ghost-com-
plexes in more detail. What may be termed the psychological
ghost-effect appears in one form or another throughout civiUzed
psychology. It is, in fact, an aspect of primary human experience
from which the particular attributes of the legendary ghost are
derived. The ghost-eifect is liable to appear under the following
conditions :
(fl.) When an essential instinctive relationship is severed by death.
The vital energy that was identified with the loved parent or child,
etc., no longer possesses the living object. By virtue of its energic
momentum this specific energy-content produces an image of the
person which may either be projected into space as an hallucination,
or appear as a revenant in dreams or seances.
May 1937 The GJiost as a Psychic Phenomenon 77
(6) In cases where the investment of vital energy is centred in aa
unborn child and a miscarriage occiirs, the ghost-effect often takes
the form of profoimd and sometimes suicidal depression, occasionall}^
with auditory hallucinations and often there are characteristic
ghost-dreams.
(c) When an essential function or phase of the individual hfe is
ignored or repressed, resulting in a characteristic attitude of resent-
ment or self-pity. In the dreams of such persons the excluded
function frequently takes on the aspect of a pursuing or haunting
ghost.
From this point of view every psychic element or function which,,
by virtue of the vital energy it contains, demands to become
incorporated in the complete personality, is liable to develop
certain sinister properties of the ghost when excluded from life.
The bitter, resentful moods of unfulfilled personaUties are due tO'
the taimtings of these psychological ghosts. The chronic bad
conscience, the man with a chip on the shoulder, the person who-
reviles his fate, etc., are typical examples of this condition.
In cases where a man has been prized away from his ancestral
background, and attempts to live in total disregard of the qualities
of his inherited psychology, it is usually ancestral figures that
haunt and accuse him in his dreams.
What is termed a complex is, at bottom, a specific functional
potentiahty, involving a certain quantity of energy under the tension
of the opposites, yea or nay. In so far as this function has been
repressed it is a ghost seeking redress. In so far as it represents
a future potentiality of increasing life and consciousness it is a
spirit seeking life. The one effect causes resentment, the other the
birth-pangs of creation. In so far as they are unconscious, both
can appear in the form of projections in the apparitional sphere,
the character of the projections differing according to the nature
of the complex from which it springs.
From these fragmentary examples it will be immediately clear
why in every country and period the most mahgn ghost is that of
the man who took his hfe, or of the man whose life was violently
cut short of its natural fulfilment. In that famous account by two
English ladies of the ghostly appearance of Marie Antoinette's court
in the Trianon, we are instantly reminded of the fact that the people
who figured in those scenes met their death under the guillotine.
But although we can appreciate how the ghost-effects I have
described in the psychological sphere inevitably and logically result
from an arbitrary intervention in the natural development of a vital
process, in other words, a kind of partial suicide, we are no nearer
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
to an understanding of what constitutes the ghost as an objective
or extra-psychic entity. In the one case our subjective under-
standing of the individual psychic history gives us the necessary
clue. Whereas, the problem of the ghost as an independent entity
brings us face to face with an enigmatic psychic occurrence without
-a subject to interrogate. As a psychologist I cannot conceive a
more extravagant situation. Give me a ghost who will stand and
answer Uke a man. What then ? you ask. Well, in that case we
shall have a human document we can understand, instead of a
supernormal phenomenon.
At the word '
supernormal ' we can almost see the door of our
inmost mind being opened by an unseen hand, and the dark indivi-
dual problem, which underhes all our discussion of ghosts and
-spirits, steals silently among us. Like the haunted sun-hero
Gilgamish, our mind at one time or another is liable to be invaded
by the doubt :
" My brother is dead ; does he survive ? And if
so, can I reach him ?
" In the presence of this all-too-human
pre-occupation, science can say very Uttle. With regard to the
•effective survival of the spirits of our dead within the psychic sphere
"there can be no doubt at all. There is abundant evidence on every
side from living men and women that their lives are influenced,
guided and, in a certain sense, controlled by persuasive or malign
forces which they identify with the spirits of their loved dead.
There are abundant and, I believe, quite genuine communications,
which contain descriptions and impart certain knowledge that has
the self-evident character of transubjective information.
The difficulty we have in drawing decisive conclusions from this
evidence arises from the fact that, so far, we are quite unable to
define the frontiers of what we rather naively term the unconscious.
We think of the psyche as a totahty embracing the whole subject.
But within this totaUty that complex we know as our personality
is only a small fragmentary item. Beyond our personal psycho-
logical domain there extends a vast, indefinite psychic hinterland
ivhose contents are no more a part of our personal psychology than
is the Tower of London or Stonehenge. Normally, we are like
caddis-worms, completely protected and covered in by the contem-
porary factors of our personal life. At certain moments, however,
Tve stumble unwittingly into this impersonal, transubjective dimen-
sion and we then experience the events of that realm in an immediate
objective sense. When a man has experienced this realm of the
•collective unconscious he knows he has been beyond the normal
framework of our three-dimensional reahty. He can never express
-or communicate his experience in ordinary language. Like William
May 1937 The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon 79
Blake, or Melville, or Goya, lie feels isolated and somewhat alienated
from Ms contemporaries. His attempts to express his experience
are usually highly symboUcal, and the irrationality of his creations
•often raises the suspicion of insanity. In the middle ages the
experience of the collective unconscious took on the pecuHar
symbohsm of alchemy or of some mystical quest, as in the Quest
of the Holy Grail. In the East this whole dimension of spiritual
experience has long been explored and highly elaborated in the
Tantric and other forms of yoga.
The Umits of this primordial ocean cannot be set. All we can
inow of this realm is by the empirical way of experience, and
naturally the accounts of subjective experience are subject, to some
extent, to individual psychological constellations.
There is no doubt that our hves are conditioned far more deeply
"by the events of the impersonal psyche than from purely personal
sources. It is, in fact, the primordial oceanic basis upon which our
little personal craft ply their ceaseless activity. What we cannot
determine is whether the spirit-world which appears to be inhabited
by the spirits of those who have died, is an aspect of this vast
iinterland of the psyche, or whether it can be regarded as existing
independently. All we know is that the spirits of the dead can
become part of our experience only by means of our conscious
psychic envelope, and just because of this inevitable condition it is
practically impossible to determine whether they exist indepen-
dently of the psyche, or whether they hve because the living give
them life.
NOTES ON PEKIODICALS
Journal of the British Society of Dowsers, Vol. II. No. 15, March 1937.
This number contains an interesting paper by Mr J. C. Maby
describing experiments carried out by him to test the claims made
by Messrs Dobler and Beichl to have detected photographically so-
called " earth rays " which are suspected of being responsible for the
reactions of dowsers.
Mr Maby exposed photographic plates of various varieties, in
contact with which were strips of metal, to the supposed emanations
from an underground stream of water. Similar plates were exposed
in positions free from underground water. The two sets showed
similar reactions, which Mr Maby attributes to electro-chemical
effects, and not to any " radiation " from the underground stream.
C. V. C. H.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1937
Revue Metapsychique. •
'
January-Fehruary 1937.—Dr Osty, in " Unknown Forces emitted
or received ". introduces the articles by Dr Moner, M. L. J. Koopman
and Dr E. Pascal which follow. They deal, as his does, with
" fluids " or " emanations " from mediums or sitters, possibly
physical in character, and held by some to be responsible for certain
psychic phenomena. Dr Osty urges his readers to keep an open
mind. Dr Moner, in his article " The Human Emanation ", is of
opinion that this emanation actually exists. M. Koopman is of the
same ojiinion (
'
' The Character of the energy in play in Telekinetic
Phenomena "). Dr Pascal, in " Experiments in Radioaesthesia
laughs the " radioaesthetists " to scorn.
Dr Osty in " Chances, Fatalities, Coincidences and Extra-sensory
Perception " holds again the middle way. Having given details of
cases of coincidence (or information obtained psychically), he says
that there are some cases of pure coincidence, even though very
complex, and others that may be due to extra-sensory perception ;
but he is convinced that there is such a thing as fore-knowledge by
humans of individual destiny.
In the Chronicle details are given of lole Catera, who without
knowledge of music writes complicated musical compositions.
Another section deals with " Predictions of the Abdication of
Edward Vni ". H. E. K.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 53C.—Vol. XXX v. ; .; . . , ,, . /. June 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN •
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
Oyi WEDNESDA Y, 30 June, 1937, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER
" A Review of Mr Whately Carington's Work
on Trance Personalities
"
BY
PROFESSOR R. H. THOULESS
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.45 p.m.. to which Members and
Associates are invited.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1937
NEW MEMBERS
Brookes, Mrs Norman, 70 Elizabeth Street, Eaton Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Glanville, Mrs E. A., Gatehurst, Gate End, Northwood, Middx.
Gower, Sir Robert, K.C.V.O., O.B.E., Sandown Court, Tunbridge
Wells, Kent.
Khakhar, Dr Hasmukh M., Kiiakliar Buildings, CP. Tank Road,
Bombay, India.
Student-Associate
Keeble, Lewis Binghamj Highworth, Byng Road, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 352nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 April 1937, at 3.30 p.m.. Sir
Ernest Bennett, M.P., in the Chair. There were also present
:
Lord Charles Hope, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., The Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr
S. G. Soal, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas and Miss Nea Walker ; also
Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Four new Members and one Student-Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 148th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 28 April 1937, at 5.30 p.m., Mr W. H.
Salter in the Chair, and later the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo read the paper " On Experi-
ments with S. F. Sambor and other Mediums " printed on p. 87.
AN OSTENSIBLY PRECOGNITIVE DREAM UNFULFILLED
We print below a record sent to us by Dr C. D. Broad of an osten-
sibly precognitive dream which was not fulfilled. As Dr Broad points
out in a covering letter, it is obviously desirable that such negative
cases should be put on record, if the dreams were striking enough
June 1937 An Ostensibly Precognitive Dream Unfulfilled 83
to be recorded at the time. We hope that any others of our members
to whom such experiences occur may be encouraged to follow Dr
Broad's example.
Dr Broad states that he is a very frequent dreamer and has had
at least three experiences of ostensibly precognitive but unfulfilled
dreams in the last few years. That this particular dream should
have remained unfulfilled must be a matter for rejoicing to all loyal
subjects. Dr. Broad's statement reads :
"'
On April 20th, 1937, I told Gatty and Thouless of the following
ostensibly precognitive dream which I had about a fortnight ago
while I was at home :
" I dreamed that I was in Oxford on the day of the Coronation.
As I was walking down the street I saw several newsboys running
out and shouting out news. I do not remember exactly what they
said or what was in the placards, but the essential point was that the
King had died either during or just before or just after the Coro-
nation. I was a good deal impressed and shocked, and I awoke,
got out of bed, and made a note. I also mentioned the matter next
morning to my Mother and to one of the servants."
(Witnessed) (Signed) C. D. Broad.
R. H. Thouless, 20/4/37
0. Gatty, 20/4/37
'
A NOTE ON TESTS FOR RANDOM DISTRIBUTION
By S. G. Soal
In a paper read in January^ before the Society I emphasised the
importance of obtaining a random sequence of cards or numbers to
be guessed in experiments designed to test extra-sensory perception.
Such a sequence may be secured by the aid of Tippet's numbers or
from an ordinary table of seven-figure logarithms. In the case where
the numbers are produced by the operations of a machine it is
essential to discover if the machine has any bias or idiosyncrasies,
since these may happen to conform with the number habits of the
human guesser, and thus bring about coincidences which are in
excess of those predicted by the laws of probability.
In this note I propose to examine the result of 2000 operations
of Mr G. N. Tyrrell's Mechanical Selector, which produced a sequence
of the digits 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in apparently random order, any number
summary was printed in the April number of the Journal.—Hon.
Ed.
F 2
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1937
of repetitions of the same digit being possible. We wish to discover
how far this sequence of 2000 digits can be considered to be an
unbiassed or random sequence.
The expected frequency of each of the five digits is of course 400
with standard deviation of 17-89, and the actual observed frequencies
were 405, 403, 399, 380, 413. It will be seen that none of the indi-
vidual differences from 400 are significant. The value of is 1-51,
which with 4 degrees of freedom gives 0-9 > P > 0-8, a value
which cannot be considered abnormal.
We next examine whether the Selector has produced the correct
numbers of " repeats ". These may be classified as " doubles ",
" triples ", " quadruples ", " quintuples ", etc. Thus, for example,
the sequence 45111321445522 2 244 3 contains 1 quad-
ruple, 1 triple and 3 doubles. The expected numbers S^, S-^, S^,
of doubles, triples, etc., are, except for trivial values of n, given for
a sequence of digits by the formulae :
>S.> = (16w-8)/125; ^3 = (16w -24)/625 ;
>S4 = (16«-80)/3125; ^5 = 16n/15625 (nearly).
With n = 2000 we obtain the following table :
S2 *S'4
Expected - - 256 51 10 2 0
Observed - - 279 50 10 4 0
Standard Deviation - 14-9 7-1
Actual Deviation - +23 -1 0 + 2 0
Again it is seen that the observed numbers do not differ signifi-
cantly from tlie expectations. In this respect we may note that the
machine difters materially from the average human guesser who
almost invariably produces a deficiency of " repeats " in his
sequence. In other words, he tends to change his guess from one
number to another too frequently.
A more important test, however, is to discover whether the
machine has sequence habits, such as a tendency to make a 2
follow a 3, etc., since these might either be learnt by tJie guesser
in process of time or be the same as the guesser's own habits.
To investigate this question we may consider for convenience that
the 2000 digits are written in a circle so that the head of the pro-
cession follows immediately the tail. We next count the number
of pairs in which the digit r is followed immediately by the digit s
[r, s having the values 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]. We thus obtain the 25 numbers
and the expectation of each w„ is clearly ^^999. = 80.
June 1937 A Note on Tests for Random Distribution 85
The observed values of n,.^ are given in the following table :
Values of r
1 2
o
o 4 5 Totals
1 76 84 76 77 92 405
o
m
2 71 89 102 63 78 403
3 86 79 91 79 64 399
Is
>
4 82 63 61 82 92 380
5 90 88 69 79 87 413
Totals 405 403 399 380 413 2000
The value of •^(^ for this distribution is then obtained by calcu-
lating the expression :
X' = ^K.-80]V80,
but it has to be noted that the 25 numbers n^^. a-i'^ not independent
but satisfy the obvious relations :
%2 + %3 + »*14 + %5 = ^21 + "^hx + »*41 + ^^51,
^21 + ^23 + ^24 + ^25 ~ *^2 + ^32 + %2 + ^^52'
»^31 + W32 + '^34 + »^35 = Wi3 + '^23 + W43 + ^^53.
+ W42 + + = + W24 + »^34 + >^54
as well as the relation
f^oX + '^52 + '^53 + «54 = »»15 + «25 + '«35 + ^^45,
which follows by addition from the fonr equations given above.
In addition there is the equation :
5 5
E E %„=2000.
r=\ s=l
We have thus iive independent relations among the numbers n^s,
and hence a system with 25 - 5 = 20 degrees of freedom. The value
of works out to p(;2= 33-76, and this gives P = 0-04 nearly.
There would seem therefore to be some slight evidence in favour of
the view that each operation of Mr Tyrrell's machine is not entirely
independent of the preceding operation, but it camiot be regarded
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1937
as in any way conclusive. Possibly a larger number of trials might
bring it out more clearly. The standard deviation of each of the
numbers n^g is 8-76, and of the 25 observed values there are five
whose deviations from 80 either exceed, or closely approximate to,
twice the standard deviation. There are thus rather more abnormal
values than one would expect, but the evidence is far from con-
clusive.
It might be possibly the case (though I doubt it) that the numbers
n^g satisfy other non-linear relations that I have failed to notice,
but if such relations existed the effect would be to reduce still further
the degrees of freedom and thus emphasise the abnormality.
An alternative method is to divide the 2000 digits into 1000
separate and consecutive pairs. If the digits are arranged in a ring
this could be effected in two different ways, and for each method of
division we should have a system with 25 - 1 = 24 degrees of free-
dom, since now the numbers related only by the single
equation 5 5
Z U w'„ = 1000.
The two values of corresponding to the two different methods
of separation are not independent of each other. But as I find on
trial that both values give values of P lying between 0-02 and 0-05,
the result tends to confirm that obtained from the previous method.
SOME RECENT INVESTIGATIONS
CAREIED OUT BY THE SOCIETY 1
Mr. Herbert began by referring to the complaints that are some-
times made that the Society does not do enough in the matter of
investigation, and that too few spontaneous cases are printed in the
Journal. In actual fact, more than 120 cases have been investigated
since Mr Herbert has been working for the Society, each of which has
been carefully filed and indexed. The reason that so few have found
their way into the Journal is that the investigation revealed that the
majority were not sufficiently evidential of paranormahty to warrant
their being printed. Mr Herbert gave examples of cases which,
though appearing at first sight to be very evidential, turned out in
the end to be of httle value, owing to flaws in the evidence which
were only revealed on detailed investigation.
On the question of quantitative methods of research, Mr Herbert
said that the present poUcy of the Research Department was to use
1 Summary of a paper read to the Society by Mr C. V. C. Herbert at a
private meeting held on March 24, 1937.
Juke 1937 Recent Investigations Carried out by the Society 87
these whenever possible, and more especially in connection with
phenomena which qualitative research has shown to be highly evi-
dential of paranormality. Mr Herbert descrihed a quantitative
technique for application to Leonard Book-tests, which is being used
at the present time at Mr Irving's sittings, and he referred also to a
quantitative method for deaHng with a claim to obtain paranormal
information by examination of specimens of handwriting.
Mr Herbert then read a report received from Mr Guenault of an
investigation carried out by him at the Society's request of a case of
Poltergeist manifestations in Leeds.
The main piece of research which has occupied the Research
Department during this season is an elaborate experiment with
Mrs Eileen Garrett on the lines followed by J. G. Pratt in his work
with the same subject (Boston S.P.R., Bulletin XXIII, March 1936).
The method is an extension of the system of evaluation devised by
Messrs Saltmarsh and Soal and described by them in their paper in
Proceedings, vol. 39, p. 266. Although the experiment is not yet
concluded, Mr Herbert said that he thought it advisable to mention
it so that Members might have less difficulty in understanding the
method when an account of it was eventually published.
MY EXPERIMENTS WITH S. F. SAMBOR i
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
S. F. Sambor was the name of a Russian professional physical medium
(a native of Volhynia, in Southern Russia, and possibly either of
PoHsh or of Hungarian extraction) who " practised " from 1893
or 1894 to 1902. He came to St Petersburg for the first time in
the spring of 1894.
In the course of some seven or eight years (I did not " sit " with
him, I believe, throughout 1895) I had with him 105 seances (of at
least three hours' duration each). During several winters I " sat
"
in a circle of which Colonel (later on General) Brussiloff (the one who
successfully " hammered the Hun " on the Austrian front during
the War) was a member, also at times Vsevolod Solovioff, the
novehst and at first friend, then antagonist, of Mme Blavatsky's.
Later on I formed another circle which had a special aim in view,
and of which neither Solovioff nor Brussiloff (a charming man but
awfully credulous) were members.
^ This is the summary of a paper read at a private meeting of the S.P.R.
on April 28th, 1937.—Hon. Ed.
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1937
In the Brussiloff circle (and I think in most cases) most seances
were perfect blanks. Still, interesting results were from time to
time obtained. The seances took place generally in the dark, and
in Hght hardly anything occurred as a rule (to this rule there were,
however, exceptions). It should be said that Sanibor consented
very willingly to being adequately controlled. In particular his
hands were very well held (grasped), the " chain " being almost
invariably formed on the knees of the sitters. Never did I notice
any attempt at a surreptitious liberation of a hand.
One of Sambor's speciahties was the alleged " passage of matter
through matter ", which took the form of chairs being " threaded
"
on the arm of the medium's neighbour, without S.'s hand having
(apparently) been released at all, and of the production of three-
dimensional knots in " endless " strings or even (in one case) in a
seamless leathern ring. In the latter case the ring in question was
mysteriously threaded on my own arm (I was the medium's neigh-
bour on the right). This " ring " incident is open to grave doubts,
and yet some details do not lend themselves in my opinion to the
hypothesis of fraud quite easily.
At times I also took part in seances in other circles than my own.
At one such seance—the only one, I think, out of 105—the pheno-
mena could only have been produced by a person moving freely
about the room. At another, in another circle, " direct " writing
was obtained in a hermetically nailed up sheet-iron cone specially
prepared several weeks before, as an experiment, by two engineers.
But we did not succeed, though we repeatedly tried, in obtaining
writing under still more stringent conditions (the bottom of the cone
being this time made of glass).
Meanwhile I had formed a circle composed of persons I knew
thoroughly well in order to test Sambor's " chair threading " perfor-
mances. Of the results obtained I will speak farther on. The two
last sittings of this series were quite remarkable, in fact the pheno-
mena were so abundant and so striking that I felt thoroughly con-
vinced at last. Alas! it turned out later on that one of the sitters
who " controlled " Sambor on these two occasions was not by any
means above suspicion. And yet he was a friend and colleague of
mine at the Chancery of the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
an intrepid mountaineer, a distinguished writer and in a general
way a very pleasant gentleman. Still, it was proved subsequently
that on two other occasions at least he was not controlling
the medium {not Sambor, who had died in 1902), and I strongly
suspect that he was instrumental in producing abundant apports,
both at the two above-mentioned Sambor seances and at others.
June 1937 My Experiments with S. F. Sambor 89
It should be added, however, that Chamberlain X. never confessed
having deceived us, in fact maintained later on he had never cheated,
when pressed by me to avow in dramatic circumstances connected
with my brother's death ;
but I have little doubt he was not telling
the truth.
His case seems to me very edifying. Here, in my own chosen
circle, a man with whom I was on the best of terms deceived us
anonymously without any apparent motive. Who can tell how often
such incidents may have taken place elsewhere without becoming
known? Who can tell how often such episodes were hushed up?
Here, in this morbid tendency to deceive anonymously and
systematically merely for the sake of deceiving, how much havoc
may have been wrought in Psychical Research!
The discovery of the part played by Chamberlain X. obliges me,
alas—surely a tremendous pity—to throw overboard by far the
best phenomena I observed with S. F. Sambor. And yet a few things
survive : rari nantes in gurgite vasto.
The phenomena of " chair-threading ", to investigate which I
formed a special circle in 1899, remam unaffected by the X. incident.
We have to throw away but one experiment out of seven, for in
that experiment X. " controlled ". Six other experiments suc-
ceeded with six different sitters, myself included—and here the
part X. might have played is no explanation.
For in such experiments we had to pay attention only to the
medium's handg—nay, at times, to one of his hands only. Neither
the position of his head nor that of his feet, nor the possible presence
of an accomplice was of any importance whatever. The chairs, of
course, were above suspicion.
My circle held altogether seventeen seances. We took great care
never to put out the light before the chain had been formed, and
we invariably verified in the light the controller's statement that a
chair had been threaded on his arm. That the phenomenon did
occur under such conditions, whilst the medium's hands were held
very satisfactorily, we convinced ourselves completely. When
various niethods of tying were applied no results were obtained, it
is true. This is to be much regretted, but does not invaUdate the
successful experiments—the more so as there are various incidents
on record which occurred in other circles and which are distinctly
puzzling. I know, for instance, at first hand of a case when a chair
was threaded not on the controller's arm which was next to the
medium, but on his other arm. I know also at first hand of another
case when two chairs were simultaneously threaded on the arm of
a Mme Youdenitch, who was holding Sambor's hand. Still holding
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1937
it, she brought her wrist near her shoulder, thus squeezing the
backs of the two chairs between her forearm and upper arm. Where-
upon they seemed to her to " open " (her expression) and both
chairs fell on the ground !
I think the most plausible explanation of such curious episodes
(as well as of the results obtained by me) lies in the domain of some
form of (mental) suggestion, possibly unconscious. Provisionally
at least I decline to believe in trickery as an explanation. And since
what occurred repeatedly with the late Sambor can undoubtedly
happen with other mediums, I suggest that a fruitful line of
investigation may possibly lie that way.
In justice to Sambor, it should be added that there is no evidence
whatsoever of Chamberlain X. having been with this medium in
collusion in the technical sense of the word. Supposing Sambpr's
trance to have been genuine, it is quite conceivable he may not even
have known that his hand had been released. Even if the trance
was not genuine we are not by any means bound to postulate an
entente between X. and Sambor prior to the seance ; in fact I am
convinced there had been none.
Perovsky-PetroVO-SOLOvovo
.
REVIEWS
Mind, Medicine and Metaphysics. By Dr William Brown (Wilde
Reader in Mental Philosophy, Oxford). (Oxford University
Press.) Pp. 294. 7s. 6d.
The essays and lectures which make up this volume cover a very
large area of medical and metaphysical facts and theories, and form
a useful addition to the hbrary of those " general readers " who are
interested in such topics and welcome their presentation in clear
and not too technical language.
The special value of the book is that the subject-matter, whether
concerned with psycho-analysis, religious experiences, mediumistic
trance or other phenomena, rests, so to speak, on a foundation of
medical theory and practice—a present-day outline of a " rehgio
medici ".
If any criticism may be fairly levelled against those extraordinarily
interesting chapters, it is that the author has too often compressed
his matter within far too narrow a compass. To the important
question e.g. of " Psychical Research and Survival " is allotted
scarcely more than a single page. No mention is made in this con-
June 1937 Reviews 91
nection of the phenomena of clairvoyance, phantasms of the Uving
and dead, or cross-correspondence as bearing on the problem of
smrvival. This is disappointing when one remembers that the author
evidently beheves in survival and is himself a psychical researcher
of recognised standing and wide experience.
As regards one section of the chapter on " Ethical Arguments for
Survival " it is rather difficult for some of us to share the author's
optimistic outlook on the present. Dr. Brown's opinion is that " the
whole himian race is becoming more and more rehgious, more and
more moral in its outlook ". Can such a thesis really be sustained
in face of the current facts of modern social life : the cruel self-
seeking of the nations, the infamies of Manchukuo and Ethiopia, the
moral failures of the League of Nations, rehgious collapse in Russia,
Mexico, Spain, and our own half-empty churches, chapels and Sunday
schools'?
Dr. Brown deals in a spirit of sympathy and common sense with
various aspects of the " Oxford Group movement, and gives us
.some very interesting pages on the psychology of international rela-
tions and war in which the importance and value of " psychological
-disarmament " are stressed as compared with any mere orgy of
pacifist sentiment. E. N. B.
The Testimony of the Soul. By Rufus M. Jones, Litt.D., D.D.,
LL.D. Pp.215. (NewYork,"TheMacmillanCo.) Price 8s. 6d. net.
Dr Jones is very well known as a Quaker writer on mystical
leUgion, and the main interest of this book lies outside the scope of
psychical research. There are however certain points at which any
writer on mysticism is brought into contact with the phenomena of
psychical research and the theories based on them.
The type of mysticism which finds favour with Dr Jones is one in
which ecstasy plays a neghgible part : he goes so far (p. 197) as to call
it a psychopathic phenomenon. He is not accordingly predisposed in
favour of the value of automatic writing, and his own experience
tends to corffirm him in his opinion. He emphasises, as every psychi-
cal researcher would do, '"
the formative operation of the (auto-
matist's) subconscious Ufe,'' and while accepting the view that " the
interior life of the individual is in immediate contact with environing
spirit " holds that " what conies from beyond is in the nature of con-
tact, sense of presence, heightening of the quality of life, increase of
dynamic, rather than ready-made "
communications and that
the effect is richer when the whole self is united".
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 193T
This is perhaps true enough of all but exceptional cases, but every
student of psychical research can point to instances in which there is
reason to beUeve that something much more definite than the author
would allow has " come from beyond "
;
knowledge, for example,,
of facts not normally known. And any student of hterature and
the arts will be familiar with the testimony of creative artists that
their best work did not seem to come from their " self'" however
" united '\ but to be completely independent of their own efforts.
These are the cases which are of interest to psychical research, and
it is these with which an author should deal if he wishes to come to
grips with supernormal phenomena in their relation to mysticism.
W. H. S.
Recent Psychic Experiences. E. A. Reeves. Pp. 62. London:
Seely, Service & Co. Limited. 1937. 5s. net.
In 1935 we reviewed in the Journal a very interesting book by Mr
Reeves, a member of the tSociety, entitled The Recollections of a
Geogra/pher. While the main interest of that book was geographical,
the author included accounts both of spontaneous experiences he
had himself received and of sittings with mediums. The title of the
present book sufficiently explains its nature, and will doubtless
prove of interest to many who read Mr Reeves's earher work. The
mediums whom Mr Reeves mentions are probably well known to
many members of our Society. W. H. S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No, 537.—Vol. XXX July 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 29 September, igsj, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"A SERMON IN ST. PAUL'S"
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs. W. H. SALTER
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.4^ p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
a
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Saturday,
31 July, until Monday, 13 September. Correspondence will
be forwarded to the staff during this time. The next
number of the "Journal" will be issued in October.
Members are asked to return, renew or exchange Library Books
before 31 July. Each member may borrow as many as six volumes
for the vacation before the Rooms close.
PROCEEDINGS
We had hoped to circulate a Part of Proceedings with t\e.Journal for
July, but as the papers to be included in it are not yet ready, delay
has been inevitable. It is expected that a Part of Proceedings will
be circulated in the early autumn.
NOTICE OF MEETINGS
Members and Associates are asked to bear in mind that a Meetmg
of the Society will be held on Wednesday, 29 September, in accord-
ance with the announcement on the preceding page. As the Journal
is not issued in September, no further announcement of this Meeting
will be made.
The Fifth Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture will be
dehvered by Dr C. A. Mace at Manson House, 26 Portland Place,
W. 1, on Wednesday, 27 October, at 8.30 p.m.
The Presidential Address will be given by Lord Rayleigh on
Wednesday, 24 November, at Manson House, at 5.30 p.m.
Members and Associates may obtain tickets of admission for
friends to the above last two Meetings, on application to the
Secretary.
NEW MEMBERS
Elected 26 May 1937
Cuthbert, H. D., Beaufront Castle, Hexham, Northumberland.
Howe, Dr E. Graham, 146 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Mumford, Captain Walter C, Sugwas Court, Hereford.
Nicholson, Mrs Scoble, Gatehurst, Northwood, Middx.
Plimmer, Mrs R. H. A., 52 The Pryors, East Heath Road, London
NW. 3.
July 1937 Notice 95
Elected 30 June 1937
Eliot, The Hon. Lady, Port Eliot, St. Germans, Cornwall.
Wood, Mrs., Flat 68, 105 Hallam Street, W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 353rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 May 1937, at 4 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Ina Jeph-
son, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs
W. H. Salter, and Admhal the Hon. A. C. Strutt, E.N. ; also ]\'Ir
C. V. C. Herbert, Eesearch Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The jVIinutes of the last Meeting of the Comcil were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 354th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 June 1937, at 4 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Lord Charles
Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt,
and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 149th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 26 May 1937, at 5.30 p.m.. The President
in the Chair.
Mr C. C. L. Gregory brought with him a short paper entitled 'On
the Possibility of a Theory of Psychical Research'. This, however,
was not read as it was considered to be too much concerned with
mechanics. !Mr Gregory read a letter he had received from Mr TyrreU
in which the latter suggested that a discussion deaUng with the ex-
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
planation of cases from the common-sense point of view rather than
from the metaphysical was what was wanted. Mr Tyrrell also pointed
out that " Motivation ", in the sense of purposefully directed events,
pervades the greater part of the field of psychical research just as it
does of psychology, and that the question of the explanation of
motivated phenomena has to be dealt with.
Mr Gregory said that, in his opinion, metaphysics could not be
kept out of the discussion, as it was concerned with what the ordin-
ary man considered to be real as opposed to illusory. The positivist
might claim to be concerned only with his sense impressions of, say,
a table, and not be at all concerned with a metaphysical table which
might be supposed to cause these impressions. Different metaphysics
were current at different times and in different countries. He illus-
trated this by a diagram which exhibited realism and ideaUsm as
separated in conscious modes of thought. He suggested that a scale
of objectivity might be usefully employed in the technique of Psy-
chical Research. This might prove to be more useful than attempting
to establish the reality of certain psychical phenomena. One could
imagine ten men entering a room in succession, the first nine experi-
encing slight uneasiness and saying they would not care to sleep by
themselves in that room. The tenth might say he saw a large pink
toad in the corner of the room, the size of an ox, who sprang upon
him. Clearly the pink toad would be looked upon as illusory or
" subjective experience " were it not that the other nine men had
experienced some unusual feehngs. Perhaps reality had two
aspects.
Mr Tyrrell said that Psychical Research was in the same situation
as Psychology with regard to motivated thought and action. Not
only the conscious mind, but also all that region of human personality
which we, in psychical research, call the " subliminal " and which
psychologists call either the " subconscious " or the " unconscious ",
was full of motivation. And the whole of that branch of psychical
research which deals with " mental " phenomena deals with material
which owes its form to some kind of purposeful direction, and might
therefore be called " motivated ". Thus, if Mr. Gregory meant to
exclude motivated events from the purview of scientific research,
this would exclude all that part of the subject which many people
believed to be the most important.
Mr T3a'rell said he was in agreement with Mr Gregory in believing
that no scientific research was possible which attempted to deal with
facts apart from theory. No one in fact ever did attempt to deal
with facts apart from theory. If you attempted to collect mere
facts, and rigidly refrained from having any theory about them at
July 1937 Private Meetings 97
all, you would collect every kind of fact indifferently, and you would
have a hotch-potch of observations without rhyme or reason, which
would be hterally meaningless. The S.P.R. never had collected facts
without reference to theory. If it had, it would have ceased to exist
long ago. It had always cared very much about the possible explan-
ations of the facts which it collected, and had rejected those facts
which, on the face of it, seemed exphcable by hypotheses other than
supernormal. In other words, it had always been profoundly in-
terested in theory. MTiat had caused a curious cross-current in the
pohcy of our Society was that it had been extremely careful never to
express any opinion as to the explanation of its facts which might be
construed as a collective opinion, held by the Society as a body. It
had been afraid of being charged with holding some sort of fixed
belief or creed. And this had led to the frequent profession by the
S.P.R. that it was a body for collecting facts but not for expressing
any opinion on them.
It was fairly obvious that there was an inconsistency here, for
the Society as a body did express an opinion about its material by
its very method of collecting it. It was not true that it stopped, or
could stop, at collecting facts. It continually passed judgment on
them : if it did not, it would have to give up all claim to be a scienti-
fic body. Yet one might fully agree that it was most undesirable
that it should commit itself to anything hke a general creed about
supernormal phenomena.
How was this inconsistency to be resolved? At a General Meeting
of the Society on 24 February last, he, Mr Tyrrell, had suggested
that when cases were published, in suitable instances the Society
should not refrain from gi^^ng as assessment of theory at the end of
the case, iadicating to what explanation the probabiHties pointed.
His argument was that the Society as a body was already committed
to judging the explanations of its material, and might as well come
out into the open and say so, thus giving the reader the benefit of its
opinion through its Research Ofiicer or other duly appointed official.
This suggestion had been rejected on the ground that, if it did this,
the Society would commit itself to a general creed about the causes
of psychical phenomena as a whole.
But this contention seemed to rest on a confusion. What the
S.P.R. was committed to was not an attitude towards psychical
phenomena in general, but an attitude towards the explanation of
each separate piece of evidence individually and in particular. These
two things were quite different. The Society might quite well express
the opinion, through one of its officers, that the most probable
explanation of a particular case was that it was due to telepathy, or
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
to the memory of a discarnate being, or to fraud, or to chance, with-
out committing itself to a general defence of any one of these explana-
tions in all cases ;
any more than a jury which brings in a verdict of
murder against one particular prisoner was committed to trying to
convict all prisoners as murderers. It was possible to express various
opmions on various occasions without committing oneself to an
orthodoxy or a creed.
Mr Tyrrell suggested that the S.P.R. in proclaiming its indiffer-
ence to the theoretical significance of its individual results was adopt-
ing an inconsistent position, which it could not logically maintain.
He again put forward the suggestion that an official discussion of
certain cases from the theoretical point of view was needed.
The President :
I think that before we decide on any poKcy about
the Society expressing its opinion we should enquire a httle more
closely as to what meaning attaches to that expression. The Society
consists of people interested in a certain branch of enquiry, who have
the quahfication of being respectable and personally agreeable to the
other members, all wilhng, all able to pay their subscriptions ; but
not necessarily of any special technical quahfications. It includes
individuals of very varied attainments—very varied opinions of
what constitutes good evidence. When one speaks of the opinion of
the Society, it certainly does not imply that they are all unanimously
of that opinion, as a jury is expected to be. So far as it means any-
thing, it means presumably that that is the opinion of the majority.
But it seems to me useless to count opinions in that way in an assembly
so varied as ours. The opinion of the majority may not be at all the
same as the opinion of those whom the Society would regard as its
leaders. Moreover, many members would not consider themselves
quahfied to express an opinion on all the Society's activities. I for
one certainly should not consider myself so qualified, and I do not
want what I am saymg to be considered to have any special authoj-
ity because I happen to occupy the Presidential Chaii- for the time
being. I only hope you will consider it on its merits as a contribution
to the discussion. There is good precedent for the course I recom-
mend : that the Society should not commit itself to opinions on con-
troversial subjects. The Eoyal Society prints a notice in every
volume of its Transactions to say that it does not as a Society pro-
nounce on any question. That I submit should be our attitude.
Opinions must stand on their merits : and if we print them, that
commits us to nothing more than that the Council think it expedient
that they should be printed. But the responsibihty should rest on
their authors.
On the question raised by Mr Tyrrell with regard to motivation.
July 1937 Private Meetings 99
Mr Gregory said he agreed with Professor MacMurray that there
could be no scientific criteria of the motives behind acts—motivation
was rather within the province of the legal profession, who were ac-
customed to judge motive as what might be reasonably supposed
under the given circumstances.
The following Members also took part in the discussion :
Mr
Kenneth Richmond, Mr Hettinger, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Lieut.-Colonel C. R. L. FitzGerald, and Mrs Goldney.
The 150th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 30 June 1937, at 5.30 p.m., The Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
Professor R. H. Thouless read a paper entitled " A Review of
Mr Whately Carington's Work on Trance Personahties " which ^vill,
it is hoped, be pubUshed later in Proceedings.
AN EXPERIMENT WITH MRS GARRETT
In a recent paper,* J. G. Pratt has described two series of sittings
with the weU-known subject Mrs Eileen Garrett. In the first serie_s,
the sitter was present in the same room as the subject, but came in
after she had assumed her trance state. The sitter did not speak
during the sitting. In the second series, the sitter was not in the
same room as Mrs Garrett, so that all leakage was ehminated. In
both series, the records of the several sittings were combined to-
gether in the form of a questionnaire, each question being answerable
by yes or no. This was submitted to all the sitters, and from the
answers, the probability of the results obtained being due to chance
alone was computed by means of the Saltmarsh-Soal formula, i
In
both series, Pratt obtained significant figures for some of the sittings.
This experiment was obviously of such great importance that the
Society decided it should be repeated in London at the earliest op-
portunity. Accordingly, on the return of Mrs Garrett to England m
the summer of 1936, she was approached with a view to the per-
formance of a similar test, and very kindly placed herself entirely at
the Society's disposal. SLx sittings were held during the summer and
early autumn of 1936, the conditions being the same as in Pratt's-
second series, except that the sitter was not present in the same
building as the subject. This may seem to some to have been a
* " Towards a Method of Evaluating Mediumistic Material," Bulletin xxiii,
Boston S.P.R. (1936).
^Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. xxxlx, p. 266 (1930).
Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
needless and additional difficulty, but Mrs Garrett herself, who was
consulted in the matter, declared that she was convinced that it did
not make the slightest difference where the sitter was, the only
requisite being that the sitter should bear in mind during the sitting
that the experiment was in progress.
The six persons who took part in the experiment were all experi-
enced sitters, who had obtained results with other " mediums ", and
who could be relied upon to return accurate and truthful answers to
the questionnaire. The preparation of the questionnaire involved
very considerable labour, as each of six long records had to be broken
up into questions, which were then combined to form the final docu-
ment. The actual questionnaire, which contained nearly 600
questions, was submitted to the sitters in the spring of this year.
When the answers were received they were entered in a table, and
the percentage of yes answers was computed in each case, firstly for
the questions which embodied the sitter's own sitting and secondly
for the questions relating to the other sittings. The results were
distinctly promising. They are shown in the following table :
Whole Own Other Sitters'
Questionnaire Material Material
Sitter
Total Percentage Total Percentage Total Percentage
No. of of yes No. of of yes No. of of yes
answ ers ansvver.s answers answers answers answers
A 263 20-91 59 16-95 204 22 -06
B 221 19 46 26 19 -23 195 19-49
C 297 31 -65 47 29-79 250 32 -00
D 247 26-72 30 33-33 217 25 -81
E 311 34 -40 104 40-38 207 31 -40
F 299 33 -78 25 36 -00 274 31 -02
It will be seen that sitters D, E and F have all scored a higher per-
centage of yes answers on those parts of the questionnaire that were
prepared from their own sittings than on the questions which were
meant to apply to the other sitters. Sitter E in particular has
scored 40 -38% of yes answers for his own material as against only
31-02% for the other sitters' material. Such results seemed amply
to justify the additional labour involved in applying the Saltmarsh-
Soal formula * to the results, and this was accordingly done.
*C It
log M) + {UpJogp}
"JU pq {log j))^
July 1937 An Experiment with Mrs. Garrett 101
In order to arrive at an accurate value for the probability of the
truth of each question as apphed to sitters in general, copies of the
questionnaire were submitted to 36 members of the Society who had
not been sitters in the experiment. Of these no less than 30 were
kind enough to supply sets of answers, and the thanks of the Society
are due to them for their trouble in the matter. From the 15,000
answers contained in these replies, very accurate values were
obtainable of the general probability of each question. For each
question this was estimated by dividing the total number of yes
answers by the total number of yes and no answers, the result being
worked out to two decimal places.
Substitution of these values in the formula produced very disap-
pointing results. The values of the critical ratio for sittings D, E
and F were 0-20, 1-38 and 0-24 respectively. None of these ap-
proaches significance, so we are forced to conclude that the apparently
significant results of the table are easily explainable on the theory of
chance coincidence. We regret therefore that our results do not
support those obtained by J. G. Pratt in America, though they do
not, of course, in any sense invahdate his results. It is understood
that a further repetition of the experiment is being undertaken by
the International Institute for Psychical Research, and it is hoped
that a significant result may be obtained.
C. V. C. Herbert
CORRESPONDENCE
Mr S. G. Soal's Tests of the Mechanical Selector
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—Mr Soal, in the last number of the Journal (Vol. XXX,
p. 83), reports the result of a test of 2000 numbers taken from the
Mechanical Selector with which the results in Clairvoyance were
obtained with Miss G. M. Johnson, which were published in the
Proceedings, Vol. xliv, pp. 150-151. The tests were for randomness
in (1) frequencies, (2)
" repeats ", and (3) sequences of numbers,
and confirm that there is no significant deviation from pure random-
ness in any of these particulars. This is only to be expected, since
each of the five numbers has five separate contacts on the rotating
switch, and any shght differences in friction which might exist
would be spread.
102 Journal of Sociehj for Psychical Research July 1937
But owing to the fact that Mr Seal has failed to understand the
way in which these numbers were used, he has not reahsed that
deviations from randomness of the first and third types would not
have affected the results even if they had existed in the Selector.
Thus he speaks of idiosyncrasies which " may happen to conform
to the number habits of the himian guesser, and thus bring about
coincidences which are in excess of those predicted by the laws of
probabihty ". And again he says : "A more important test, how-
ever, is to discover whether the machine has sequence habits, such as
a tendency to make a 2 follow a 3, etc., since these might either be
learnt by the guesser in process of time or be the same as the guesser's
own habits." This is impossible, because all the numbers were
passed through the Commutator, as was explained in the Report
referred to above. This neutrahses all possibiUty of habits of the
Selector coinciding with habits of the subject, since the Commutator
is reset for each experiment. Clearly, if Selector and Subject both
had a preference for (say) (a) the middle box, or (6) following a 3
up with a 2, their preferences might coincide with one setting of
the Commutator, but would be out of coincidence with the other
seven settings.
The only test which has any relevance to the actual results is
test (2), dealing with the number of " repeats ". From the nature
of things, a mechanical device can scarcely go wrong in this respect.
It would take judgement to do so. Mr Soal's test merely confirms
the fact that it is perfectly normal.
Apart, however, from this, Mr Soal's method of dealing with the
mechanically selected numbers tends to produce a false impression
owing to the things he leaves unsaid. Even if there were a deviation
from true randomness in the figures (and the tests show that there
is not), the effect on the results depends on the opportunities for
coincidence between a habit of the machine's and a habit of the
percipient's. The " Zener " cards, so largely used for E.S.P. tests,
are very far from giving a truly random sequence ; but this does
not matter so long as the percipient has no opportunity of taking
advantage of the fact. Suppose, now, as Mr Soal suggests, that the
Selector had a strong tendency to follow up a 3 with a 2—suppose
it did this three times out of four—and that the percipient did the
same thing, and that there was no Commutator to nullify the
effect, clearly most of these " 3-2's " would not coincide with one
another. They could only have an effect on the score after a success
with a 3. At a chance rate of scoring, there would only be on the
average 4 successes with a 3 in 100 trials ; and of these only three
could be coincidences and only two might be. And if, in the same
July 1937 Correspondence 103
way, one works out the effect of number-preferences, say for the
middle box, one finds that it has to be abnormally high to give the
kind of results given by a good subject.
Using the numbers which Mr Soal has tested, and, of com'se,
using the Commutator as well, 7,809 trials, with Jliss G. M. Johnson
as subject, gave 1,841 successes, the conditions being that of Pure
Clairvoyance, owing to the operator's ignorance of what lamp was
being ht. The odds against this being due to chance are somewhere
about a hundred milhon million to one (P = 10^^* approx.). Since
this result was pubhshed in the above Report, the trials amount to
10,959 and the successes to 2,608, and still higher odds against
chance.
Since it is quite clear that no number habits can have anything
to do with this result, and since the safeguards with which the
machine is provided prevent any source of normal knowledge from
reaching the percipient, it would be interesting to know whether
any reader of the Journal can suggest an explanation of these
results other than that of Pure Clairvoyance.
Yours etc., G. N. M. Tyrrell.
REVIEW
A Voice from the Grandstand. By Sir Auckland Geddes, P.C,
G.C.M.G., K.C.B., M.D. Reprinted from the Edinburgh Medical
Journal, N. S. (IVth), Vol. XLIV, p. 365, 1937.
Many of our readers may have noticed in Light some weeks ago an
extract from an address dehvered by Sir Auckland Geddes on the
occasion of the bi-centenary of the Royal Medical Society, which
contained an extremely interesting account by a medical man, who,
in Sir Auckland's words, " passed into the very portals of death and
was brought back to hfe by medical treatment. The record was
taken down in shorthand by a skilled secretary as life was re-
establishing itself ". Sir Auckland has courteously presented to the
Society's Library an offprint of his Address, and members are
strongly advised to read it, not only for a full account of the experi-
ence mentioned above, but also for the lecturer's comments on the
relation of the bodily organism to Soid, Mind, Spirit (to use the
definition which the lecturer adopts), and on the attitude of science,
and particularly medical science, to the problems connected there-
with.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
It is difficult to do justice to the experience of the apparently
dying doctor without quoting it in full, but the following extracts
indicate a few points of outstanding interest. After explaining that
one night, shortly after midnight, he found himself to be suffering
from acute gastro-enteritis, and that at no stage of the experience
was his consciousness in any way dimmed, he continues :
" but I
suddenly realised that my consciousness was separating from another
consciousness, which was also me. These for purposes of description
we could call the A and B consciousness, and throughout what follows
the ego attached itself to the A consciousness. The B personahty I
recognised as belonging to the body, and as my physical condition
grew worse and the heart was fibrillating rather than beating, I
realised that the B consciousness belonging to the body was begin-
ning to show signs of being composite, that is, built up of ' conscious-
nesses '
from the head, the heart, the viscera, etc. These components
became more individual and the B consciousness began to disinte-
grate, while the A consciousness which was now me, seemed to be
altogether outside my body, which it could see." After adding that
he could see anything he chose to see " in London, Scotland and
elsewhere," the percipient proceeds, " the explanation which I
received, from what source I do not know, but which I found myself
calling to myself my mentor, was that I was free in a time dimension
of space, wherein '
now* ' was in some way equivalent to '
here '
in
the ordinary three-dimensional space of everyday life."
The " mentor " explained the problems of three, four and five-
dimensional universes to him. The percipient began to recognise
people and saw " psychic condensations attached to various people,
combined in some cases with visual impressions of different colours ".
Shortly afterwards the doctor who had been hastily summoned
made an injection which caused his heart to beat more strongly ; "I
was drawn back, and I was intensely annoyed, because I was so
interested and just beginning to understand where I was and what I
was '
seeing '. I came back into the body really angry at being
pulled back, and once I was back all the clarity of vision of anything
and everything disappeared and I was just possessed of a glimmer
of consciousness, which was suffused with pain. It is surprising to
note that this dream, vision or experience has shown no tendency to
fade like a dream would fade, nor has it shown any tendency that I
am aware of to grow or to rationalise itself as a dream would do."
This experience is in many ways similar to that of Dr Wiltse as
related in Vol. VIII of our Proceedings, p. 180, and Vol. II of Myers's
Human Personality, pp. 315-323 ; so similar as to raise the question
whether the percipient had read Dr Wiltse's account, in which event
July 1937 Reviews 105
it might be supposed that his own experience had been affected by
the impression created by reading Dr Wiltse's narrative. The
Kesearch Officer accordingly enquired of Sir Auckland Geddes as to
this, and was informed that the percipient certainly never had read
our Proceedings, but might possibly have seen the account in Hnincm
Personality, though he had no recollection of having done so. There
are, however, significant points of difference : the percipient in the
more recent case found himself receiving explanations from wha,t
seemed to him an extraneous source which was only faintly personi-
fied : whereas in Dr Wiltse's case the place of this almost impersonal
" mentor " was taken by a " presence ", the vehicle of whose mani-
festations was a thunder-cloud, a thing almost universally associated
with the idea of divinity.
Sir Auckland Geddes stresses the absence from the experience he
records of the " metaphysical " and adds, " It is thus to be sharply
distinguished from the records of the spiritual adventures of the
mystics. These belong to the plane of spirit, which is supernatural ".
But it is probably useful, while not ignoring the admitted distinc-
tions, to consider together Sir Auckland's case, the Wiltse case,
some of the pubhshed records of the trance, and particularly the
" waking stage of both Mrs Piper and Mrs Willett, and various
mystic experiences, in view of the elements which, notwithstanding
great variety of mise-en-scene, are common to all of them. These
seem to include a sense of the splitting of the personality into
" consciousnesses " of varying degrees of importance and perma-
nence, of contact with external intelligence more or less highly
personified, and of annoyance and disappointment when the ex-
perience begins to " fade into the light of common day ". All this
may of course be subjective, but it would be a mistake to overlook
the fact that the more direct and immediate the experience, the
greater is the consensus.
It is to be noted that Sir Auckland states his opinion that tele-
pathy " must be accepted as a primary datum of science ".
W. H. S.
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
The Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. I. No. 1, March 1937. Duke
University Press, Durham, N.C. Editors: William McDougall
and William Banks Rhine.
We extend a hearty welcome to this new periodical " a scientific
quarterly dealing with telepathy, clairvoyance and other para-
psychological problems". The special object of its promoters, as set
forth in an editorial introduction, is to foster the study of these
problems in University centres. " If, then, the other branches of
science have thriven and built up bodies of well-founded knowledge
and illuminating theory, only by means of the co-operative en-
deavors of many highly trained speciahsts working in laboratories
find observatories, with specialized methods and instruments pro-
vided by universities and other great institutions of the higher learn-
ing, what hope of similar success in this most difficult branch so long
as it is prosecuted without similar advantages ? . . . More than any
other research worker, the student of psychical research needs to
live and work in a community of students and specialists along
many lines such as can only be found in the university."
At these opinions the Society for Psychical Research will certainly
not cavil. It has long been the opinion of students in this country
that a closer rapprochement between academic science and psychical
research was greatly to be desired. If the gulf between them has
been considerably narrowed in the last fifty years and foundations
laid upon which it may prove possible to build a bridge, this may
fairly be claimed to be due in a large measure to the work of the
S.P.R. and its founders, " amateurs " though they themselves may
have been. .:,
We wish our fellow-workers in America all success.
H. DE G. S.
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. I. No. 1, March 1937.
This number contains some interesting papers on experiments in
extra-sensory perception. Mr J. G. Pratt describes his work with
the special Zener, or E.S.P. cards, in which the subject was required
to match the unknown card to one of the five samples which were
placed before him. In the first series of experiments, the five key
cards were placed face upwards, and the subject indicated with a
pointer which of the key cards resembled the unknown card pre-
sented to him. In the second series, the key cards were themselves
unknown, being placed face downwards, and covered with blank
cards. Adequate precautions were taken to insure that the subject
JvLY 1937 Notes on Periodicals 107
could not deduce by normal means the identity of the key cards.
With this method, in a series of 7,800 trials with a particular subject,
a critical ratio of 5-3 was obtained. This gives odds of some 2,500,000
to 1 against chance alone being responsible. In order to provide a
control experiment, the cards were dealt two by two against the key
cards, in such a way that any faculty of extra-sensory perception
would not have a chance to operate. The results obtained were well
within chance expectation, being, on 7,500 trials only O'S per cent,
away from the ideal mean value.
a" joint paper by ]\Ir J. L. Woodruff and Professor R. W. George
describes work on the various methods of card guessing, with a view
to discovering which method was the easiest for the subject to obtain
a result above chance. Methods were tried in which the subject
pointed to key cards which were face upwards, the same with the
key cards face downwards, and also with the subject verbally
indicating his choice instead of pointing to a key card. All three were
repeated with the cards to be guessed totally screened from the view
of the subject. The experimenters obtained significant results with
all methods, and they found that the method where the key cards
were face upwards and the cards to be guessed unscreened produced
the highest total score, the lowest total score being given by the
method of key cards face downwards and the cards to be guessed
screened from view. With two subjects it was found that the un-
screened experiments produced in all better results than the screened
experiments, but with the third subject the opposite was the case.
Dr Carpenter and Professor Phalen contribute a paper on experi-
ments made with college students in order to test Dr Rhine's results
in an independent laboratory. As well as the usual cards, cards with
colours instead of symbols were used. With a few subjects significant
results were obtained, it being found that the coloured cards were
generally as effective as those with the symbols. The authors are
not, however, prepared to conclude that the results are due to any
supernormal faculty.
Dr Warner and Mrs Raible provide an interesting paper on tele-
pathy experiments. Subjects were asked to lift two weights and to
say if the second was heavier or lighter than the first. It was found
that the number of successes was greater when the experimenter
knew the correct answer than when he did not. In the case of two
subjects the difference was very marked.
Dr D. K. Adams describes Dr Bender's work in card guessing, and
]VIr B. K. Smith reviews Mr Tyrrell's experiments.
C. V. C. H.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1937
Zeitschrift fur nietapsychische Forschung.
December 1936.—Dr Camillo Schneider in " Biology of the Meta-
subject " traces development from the simplest organisms to man,
and looks beyond to " meta-man " (super man), of whose faculties
telepathy, clairvoyance, psychometry in himian beings are the first
glimpses.
Dr phil. Albert Langer continues his account of experiments in
telepathy, clairvoyance and psychometry with Kordon-Veri.
Professor Johannes Kasnacich continues his series of articles on
" Mysticism and Occultism in German Literature "'.
His present
article is on " Birth and Death ". The quotations he cites stress the
poets' constant conviction of man's survival of bodily death.
" Death is but a change of dwelHng ."
Major Guenther in " Strange Hajjpenings with lost Ornaments
"
gives particulars of the recovery by persons with mediumistic power
(in dreams or in trance) of lost articles of jewellery.
Inspector Carl Rothy (of Budapest) gives details of a new clair-
voyant, Anton Petrin (from Jugoslavia).
Dr G. Walther (of Munich) tells a story of haunting (from
America).
Joseph Peter in " Signor Bozzano answers his critics " comments
on Sig. Bozzano's answers to Mr Barnard's criticisms in the book
entitled The Supernormal.
Among the books reviewed are : Dr M. Feller's Report of a
Spontaneous Sitting with Frau Maria Silbert, and Professor E,.
Hoffman's John Sloan, a Scottish Direct Voice Medium.
H. E. K.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
win continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No, 538.—Vol. XXX October 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Fifth
Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture
ENTITLED
"Supernormal Faculties and the Structure
of the Mind "
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
Mr C. a. mace, M.A.
{Reader in Psychology in the University of London)
AT
MANSON HOUSE
(26 PORTLAND PLACE, W. i)
ON
WEDNESDA7\ 27 October, ig^y, at 8.J0 p.m.
N.B.
—
Admission zuill be Ticket only. Full particulars are given on
the following page.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobbe 1937
OBITUAEY
We record witli great regret the death in California in August
of Professor F. C. S. Schiller, ex-President of the Society, and for
many years a Member of the Council. An account of his work will
be printed later.
THE SOCIETY'S CLAIM FOE EXEMPTION FKOM
INCOME TAX
As was mentioned at the last Annual General Meeting, the Society
has for some time past been endeavouring to obtain exemption from
Income Tax on its investments. Members will be glad to hear that
when in July the Society's case came before the Special Com-
missioners, it was successful. In consequence the Society will not »
only be exempt in the future, but will recover, it is hoped, several
years' payments of tax, a very material relief to its financial position.
At the hearing in July the President, Lord Kayleigh, Dr T. W.
Mitchell, the Secretary and the Hon. Secretary gave evidence as to
the scientific aims and methods of the S.P.R., and as to its financial
disinterestedness. The crucial point was whether the Society's work
was of substantial benefit to the pubhc, and on the evidence before
them, particularly the evidence as to the important contribution to
psycho-therapy arising from the Society's researches, the Special
Commissioners held that it was.
This important success is very largely due to Miss Newton's
enterprise and tact. She carefully explored the ground by interview
and correspondence, satisfied herself that the Society had a good
case, inspired the Council and ofiicers with her own confidence, and
did all the preliminary work essential to the success which has now
crowned her efi^orts.
W. H. S.
THE FIFTH MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE
The Fifth Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, entitled Super-
normal Faculties and the Structure of the Mind, will be dehvered
by Mr C. A. Mace, at Manson House, 26 Portland Place, W. 1, on
Wednesday, 27 October 1937, at 8.30 p.m. Admission will be by
ticket only. One Ticket is enclosed in each copy of this number of
the Journal ; additional tickets can be had on apphcation to the
Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Manson House is situated within a few doors of the B.B.C. and
Queen's Hall, and about five minutes' walk from Oxford Circus and
Regent's Park Tube Stations.
October 1937 Presidential Address 111
PKESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
A General Meeting of the Society will also be held at Manson
House on Wednesday, 24 November 1937, at 5.30 p.m., when Lord
Rayleigh, F.R.S., will deliver the Presidential Address, entitled
" The Problem of Objective Psychical Phenomena ". Tickets for the
use of friends of Members and Associates will be distributed with
the November Journal ;
additional tickets can be obtained on
aj^phcation to the Secretary.
CASE
A New Communicator Associated with " Dora "
{Report by Kenneth Richmond on records of two Leonard sittings, with
annotations, furnished by the Rev. W. S. Irving)
In this case information given as evidence is, largely, known either
to the sitter, Mr Irving, or to Mrs Whitehead, mother of the late
Mrs Irving (" Dora "). The point of interest is in what way the
various ideas and images presented in evidence could have become
invested with the necessary mental energies to bring them to expres-
sion at the sittings and to produce the impression of a coherent aim
on the part of two communicators ;
and, in particular, what energies
and motives could have worked in opposition to a distinct resistance
in Mr Irving's mind.
Owing to a family difficulty which will not be particularised in
this report, certain relatives of the late Mrs Irving's had not been
a welcome subject to Mr and Mrs Irving during their married life,
and, as will be seen, Mr Irving was firmly convinced when first
annotating the sittings that allusion by " Dora " to this branch of
her family was outside the bounds of probabihty. None the less,
such allusion clearly appears to be made, and was sufficiently visible
to me, as an outside commentator, to enable me to see the probable
bearing of a piece of evidence which Mr Irving had not elucidated.
(The " Seymour " incident, given later.)
Now, it is possible that a group of ideas which is, by habit, un-
welcome to the conscious mind of a person may be the more active
in the subhminal regions of his mind : in this case, that relatives
whom Mr Irving consciously wished to forget would constitute a
subject that his subliminal mind would actively dwell upon. There
is little reason, however, for conjecturing that the subject would
have been active at all in any region of Mr Irving's mind. The
relatives were his late wife's, not his own, there was no current
problem concerning them, nor had there been anything for years
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
that induced Mr Irving to trouble about them one way or another.
The only conceivable stir to his subliminal feelings on the subject
might have been occasioned by the death of the late Mrs Irving's
father, Mr Whitehead, in the autumn of 1936. Mr Whitehead
appears as a communicator in the material we are about to study.
Mr and Mrs Whitehead did not share Mr and Mrs Irving's feeUng
about the relatives in question, and it is imaginable that Mr Irving
could have subliminally conceived the idea that Mr Whitehead, after
his death, would encourage in " Dora " a change of attitude on the
subject. We should then have to suppose, if we are to make Mr
Irving's subliminal activities a sufficient explanation for what
occurred at the sittings, that he conveyed this unconscious idea
telepathically to Mrs Leonard's mind, in opposition to the resist-
ance which we shall see to have been present in his known system
of thought and opinion.
The process would be like that by which a dream forces into
expression some mental attitude which is foreign to, and unwelcome
to, the conscious attitude of the dreamer ;
only in this case the
expression has to be activated not in the person's own dream-mind,
but in the trance-mind of another person, the medium.
Such a hypothesis, while highly conjectural, is not without interest.
Assuming that the process is possible at all, the chief difficulty that
I see in this case lies in attributing sufficient energy to the supposed
unconscious motivation in Mr Irving's mind. Dream-analysis sug-
gests that it takes a great deal of psychic energy to force a subject
into dream-expression against which there is an organised resistance in
consciousness. Presumably more psychic energy would be required to
neutrahse a resistance and then to activate expression through the
trance-mind of a medium. But we can return to hypotheses of
energy and motive when we have seen what are the facts in this case.
I. Concerning " Australia.
"
Extract from a Leonard sitting of Jan. 19, 1937 ;
sitter, the Rev.
W. S. Irving, taking his own notes in duplicate. The carbon copy
of these notes was posted on the same day from Whitstable to Miss
Newton at the S.P.R. rooms, to preclude any adaptation of the
record to subsequent findings.
Mrs Leonard's control, Feda, speaking :
" Now, Mr Bill, Dora says she isn't only interested in Aus-
traha just now, but someone she knows went to Australia some
time ago. 'Related,' she says, 'related,' Mr Bill. Is a 'G'^
iThis initial is changed to accord with a necessary pseudonym.
OCTOBEE 1937 Case 113
anything to do with it. Keep seeing a big '
G ' while she's
talking about this. An '
S '
and a '
G '
come together rather
—
'
S '
and '
G '. Are there two fairly youngish people connected
with this? She would be really interested in one more than in
the other. Not boys and girls—not young as that ;
grown-up
people. That's right, Mr Bill, do you see? There's a reason
for her mentioning this just now, Mr Bill, about Australia and
the '
S '
and the '
G ', 'cos something is happening making a
change for the one she's interested in. Please put it down!
And Dora is helping—Dora is helping just noAV in this matter,
you see? That's right, Mr Bill, that's right! Now Dora feels
a little bit of excitement and arranging—movement, change,
all round this condition. Mr Bill! She feels something very
good—very good. Not very long ago, there was something
rather worrying there, wasn"t there, Mr Bill? Dora felt there
was. She felt '
Oh dear! I wish things could be better! '
Any-
how, a little later on you be {sic) in touch with conditions you
can find out about this.
" Don't put this on one side! It's rather good! I want you
to follow it up, because, she says, there's someone, on the other
side, with her now, who used to be a kind of link—important
link and the two of them will both help you to verify this, you
see?
"
Mr Ir\ang's annotations on this mentioned, first, a friend with
the initials " S.G." who had gone to live in Austraha some 34 years
ago. This does not seem relevant (" An S. and a G. come together
rather " would be meaningless), and, as Mr Irving remarks in his
annotation, the word " related " (which Feda emphasises by repeti-
tion) would not apply. Mr Irving's notes continued :
" There was, however, at this time, another '
G ' in Australia, and
one who is related to Dora. This '
G ' is undoubtedly referred to
by a new communicator, Dora's father, on Jan. 21, 1937. On the
other hand, I do not think that this lady is referred to here. I
cannot imagine Dora mentioning her under any circumstances,
whereas—it would be in character for Mr Whitehead (Dora's
father) to thrust her forward."
Allusions to this lady appear later to be evidential. We can
observe in the above annotations how positive a tabu seems to have
existed in Mr Irving's mind against the name in question. A further
point about this is that it involves a great improbability of Mr
Irving's having mentioned the " G " relationship in any casual
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
conversation he may have had with Mrs Leonard before or after a
sitting, during the long period over which the Irving-Leonard records
extend.
In this sitting of Jan. 19, 1937, the surname of a neighbour of
Mr Irving's was correctly given ; this gentleman has lived in Aus-
tralia, and the fact seems to be the point of the allusion.
//. Evidence concerning a new communicator
" The purported communicator ", Mr Irving writes, " is Dora's
father, Mr R. W. E. Whitehead, who died in the autumn of 1936.
The messages are for his wife on earth. Nothing was said to the
medium as to communications being wished for, and only what
is given below to the controls."
Mr. Whitehead was nearly 84 ; his widow is 84.
Extracts from a Leonard sitting of Jan. 21, 1937. Mr. Irving
again sat alone, and his arrangements with regard to notes and the
transmission of a copy to the S.P.R. w^ere the same as for the sitting
of Jan. 19, 1937.
FedA :
" Before she go any further she want to mention the
name Seymour to you—Seymour, Seymour. Mr Bill! You'll
know she's not often certain whether she's getting something
gone, or something about to come, well! that's how she feel
about this name, so, Mr Bill, will you just keep it in mind '
for
immediate reference ', she says, '
for immediate reference '
?
She feels that name in front of you, with you, near to you,
now. Seems some connexion between that name and another
—wait a minute—another name, which she can't give me this
moment but she will. It's connected with somebody, some-
body who's passed over lately, Mr Bill, lately."
It is a fact in evidence that Mr Irving sought with care for associa-
tions to the name Seymour, and found only that when an acquaint-
ance of his died early in 1937 there was a Seymour among the
numerous mourners. This seemed of no interest ; and Mrs White-
head connected nothing with the name.
By this time a probabihty had become clear to me that the name
connected with the letter " G ", above, which will be here repre-
sented by the name Gurnard, was, despite Mr Irving's resistance to
the idea, an allusion intended both by Dora and by the new com-
municator. The reasons for this will appear later in these extracts.
I wrote suggesting to Mr Irving that he might find " Seymour " to
be in some way connected with the Gurnard-Austraha theme. Mr
OCTOBEE 1937 Case 115
Irving thought of searching in an old birthday-book^ which had been
given to Dora when she was 10 years old by Mrs Gurnard.
Among the entries in this book, the name immediately preceding
Mrs Gurnard's own is
" May Seymour ". Note that Feda had said,
of the name Seymour, " Seems some connexion between that name
and another . . . which she can't give me this moment but she will.
It's connected with somebody who's passed over lately." As will
be seen, the name Gurnard was effectually given later.
Feda goes on (in the sitting of Jan. 21, 1937) to speak of a man,
" here with Dora ", " what's passed over rather lately ". "A
man ; not a boy." " And there's a lady on the earth waiting for
some news of him."
We can say only that this contains nothing inappropriate to old
Mr Whitehead : a man, adult, lately deceased. I gather that Mrs
Whitehead had not, in fact, had " news " of him hitherto.
Feda next says :
" Mr Bill ! Will you see if there's anything connected with
something-field? Freshfield, Greenfield, something hke that
connected with this man? ... I dunno what Dora means, but
she says, '
There's an objective in front of it.' . . . Dora says,
'
No, it's an adjective in front of the field.'
"
Mrs Whitehead writes :
" The '
field '
is Fairfield, the firm he
worked with so long." Mr Irving adds : "I think it practically
certain that I must have known about Mr Whitehead's connexion
with the Fairfield Company, years ago, but until I read Mrs
Whitehead's notes, I had forgotten."
Two initials are then given by Feda as " coming with " the com-
municator, which would be correct for the Christian names of a
brother and daughter of the communicator, both deceased. Initials
alone add httle as evidence, and I merely note that these might
have furnished a negative point instead of a faintly positive one.
Feda then refers to the communicator's health : he was
" not well ", and " He was failing too in his bodily condition for
some time, but he passed over rather quickly just at the end
like, a sudden faihng—a sudden stopping."
Mr Irving notes that Mr Wlutehead was, at the end of his life,
" being treated for a weak heart. Nevertheless, he had a good
^At a Leonard sitting of July 22, 1937, Mr. Irving was given an allusion to
a picture or design of an owl at his home which should remind him of Dora.
He found a picture of an owl, with a short poem called " The Owl's Advice,"
in the same birthday-book, on the back of the page containing Dora's birthday.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
breakfast on the day of his death, and seemed no worse than
usual. Mrs Whitehead left him alone for a short time, and when
she returned found him dead."
Feda next refers to " a place . . . River, or something-river."
We shall come later upon a reference to Hull, properly Kingston-
upon-HuU, where the Hull joins the Humber. Mrs Whitehead
writes, " I think the Humber is the river." We can say that this
allusion keeps within sight of relevance.
Feda then describes the communicator as " a clever man and
descrilDes him as " in a garden looking at things growing ". She
goes on to his " examining something . . . something to do with
Nature, and a kind of occupation. . . . Did he examine things
through a glass?
"
For the " garden " reference, Mrs Whitehead can only annotate
that " He was much interested in the gardens opposite " ; but for
the further reference she adds, writing to Mr Irving, " You know
Astronomy was one of his pet subjects." It seems possible that an
allusion to astronomy and the telescope was intended, though Feda's
impression rather suggests botany and the magnifying glass.
Speaking of " the lady who is left behind on the earth ", Feda
says the communicator is " giving me a feeling she is not too well,
or too strong ". Feda seems to get no suggestion of the advanced
age of Mr and Mrs Whitehead. Mr Irving annotates that Mrs White-
head is " naturally '
not too strong '. She is seldom really well now."
Feda :
" Now I feel this gentleman had links with a place
away from London—a journey away—not just outside : Ho
—
Hull—HuUit—Hallit—Hilhard—Hull. I'm getting a name like
Hull." (W.S.I. : "Spell it.") " H, 0, L, I think, or H, A, L—
like that! That must be part of a name that's 'portant to him."
Mr Irving annotates :
" When I first met Mr W., he was living
at Hull . . . the family had lived there many years. ... I asked
Feda to spell the word, not because I was doubtful of what was
said, but for confirmation. The result Avas curious, and at first
sight looks like a mistake, but I do not think it is. Soon after
I got to know the Whiteheads, Mr W. gave up his own business
in Hull, and went to live in London where he became a member
of the firm of Lyne and Holman—solicitors. It looks as if his
mind was dwelhng on this, and it became recorded."
Mrs Whitehead wrote to Mr Irving :
" It is remarkable that
Hull is mentioned. . . . Hull is almost convincing altho' '
Hoi
'
is very near to '
Holman '." It is, of course, quite consonant with
October 1937 Case 117
the ordinary working of trance- or dream-association that " Hull
"
should lead on to " Hoi " as " part of a name ". It is easy, we
may note, to be uncertain from the sound whether a name begins
with " Hoi " or " Hal ". I am uncertain at this moment whether
an acquaintance of mine spells her name Holford or Halford.
FedA :
" And '
Gur ', or Gurn-something,^ too. That's
another name linked up with him :
'
Gur ', or Gurn-something."
Mrs "Whitehead writes :
" '
Gur ' I think is Gurnard ... as Janet
Gurnard [daughter of the Mrs Gurnard who gave the birthday-
book] is in Australia and strange to say Mr W., before his death,
talked a lot about his song called '
Austraha '
—how he would
like to convert it to other music. Janet Gurnard has been in
Austraha a good many years now. ..."
Mr Irving aimotates : "I met some of the Gurnards more than 30
years ago. They are people in whom my wife and I had no interest.
It is quite likely that Mr, or Mrs, Whitehead has mentioned to me
about Miss Gurnard going to Australia, but I am not certain."
The fact was, as stated above, that Mr and i\Irs Irving, in the latter's
lifetime, had not wished to have anything to do with the Gurnards, for
personal reasons. Mr and Mrs Whitehead, it appears, had made some
attempt to modify this attitude, and had not succeeded. Mr Irving's
annotation, quoted earher, " I cannot imagine Dora mentioning her
under any circumstayices " refers to this Janet Gurnard simply as one
of the family who were under this personal tabu. Mr Irving, on later
consideration of the evidence contained in these sittings, came to
the conclusion that this Gurnard-tabu was not unlikelv to have been
dissolved in Dora's mind, after her death, and especially after the
re-union with her father which is part of the hypothesis we are
concerned with. I can add on this point that no question of any
lowering of principle would be involved, and that the " tabu
"
reflected ia no way on the character of the Gurnards.
It will have been noted that Mrs Whitehead's annotation adds
to the group of " Australia " associations which are connected with
this case. Apropos of the song " Australia " Mr Irving, also a
writer of songs, sends the foUowiag note : "It was only a few days
before ]\Ir Whitehead's death that I sent him my song '
Love's
Dawn '
to see, and Mr W. told me he kept whisthng the tune all
day. This would naturally make him think, of his own songs, and
bring the subject up. Mr Whitehead wrote many songs. ... I do
1 Altered to suit the pseudonj'm. The alteration represents the exact degree
of accuracy in Feda's partial rendering of the real name.
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
not remember '
Australia '." This song would be among the things
that Mr Whitehead had in mind (by Mrs Whitehead's evidence)
shortly before his death, and the hnk between himself and Mr Irving
as fellow song-writers had been (by Mr Irving's evidence) newly
revived at about this time.
Feda goes on to another point
:
" Did he have to bend over something a lot? I feel at one
time he had to concentrate, and bend over something a lot.
What you keep in boxes? He used to collect boxes : careful
he was with these boxes too. Kept them in one special room,
several of them ;
and, I think, like numbered so that he would
know which was which."
Mrs Whitehead refers this to " the books and boxes that he was
latterly busy with ", and the reference may connect this with the
passage that immediately follows in the sitting, which will be
quoted in a moment. But the main interest seems to he in Mr
Irving's annotation : "At one time my wife and I stored for him,
here, about 30 boxes and packages all carefully numbered. Every
few weeks, Mr W. used to send messages, '
Please get so-and-so
out of box 27, or package 35.'—We thought it, at the time, an
awful nuisance!
"
If this relevance was intentional, it seems to have been worked
in without Feda's intention, since she appears to be depicting action
by the communicator only. She continues upon the same line of
description :
" What have boxes to do with books? I get books and
boxes. Did he have glass cases, or glass cupboards? I've
got to say it this way : I get him peering through a glass top,
or door—like a lid or door to something. He had books, this
man had, a good many books. Oh! Had he been? Yes, he
had been doing something about books only short time before
he passed over. Something he'd been writing, Mr Bill, writing ;
feel as if he was writing something about a book."
" Writing something about a book " seems to be an attempt of
Feda's to supply a connexion between " writing " and books ;
this
has no support from the annotations. But Mrs Whitehead writes :
" He was much concerned about all his books and papers, and kept
going to the bookcase, which has glass doors, and peering in and won-
dering what was going to become of them all. . . . He was writing too
a lot and making his will, and also to help me make mine."
It will be noted that if Feda had this picture, she impairs it some-
October 1937 Case 119
what by the alternative picture of the communicator peering down
through a glass lid. It is possible to suppose, here, that the pre-
ceding picture of the communicator bending over boxes has led
to an overlapping and confusion of images. In " glass cases or
glass cupboards ", " glass top or door ", " hke a lid or door ", each
phrase first gives the idea of a Hd and then that of a door. Feda
may also have an echo in mind of " Did he examine things through
a glass? "
(p. 116), where she appears to visuahse some kind of
Nature-study, but the annotations show that astronomy would be
a relevant subject of allusion.
Mr Irving notes that he, as sitter, was ignorant of Mr White-
head's habit, shortly before his death, of peering through the glass
doors of the bookcase, and adds :
" I only once visited the White-
heads at the house where he died, and that was for half a day only,
on Sept. 17th 1936—most of which time we spent on Bournemouth
pier. It does not seem possible, therefore, that I can have learnt of
these habits of his."
Feda then produces one definite mishit, by introducing one of the
rare Leonard cliches.
" He couldn't have had a lot of children, could he? I don't
think he'd a terrible big family, but there's a lot of people he
looks on as his children, '
I must think of my children, how
I can help them.' And I don't think he means his physical
children—his family."
This is a further touch of positive evidence in so far as Mr White-
head was the father of a family (five girls, of whom two now sur-
vive), but it seems to be a wholly negative point that he is repre-
sented as having some preoccupation with " children " in another
sense, such as the pastoral or the pedagogic. Judging by a small
group of similar instances in Leonard sittings, a blind shot in this
direction seems now and then to be taken when the communicator
is felt to have been an elderly and kindly person. I find it sur-
prising, as I have noted elsewhere, that there are not more such
stereotypes in the general run of Leonard material.
Feda continues : "He likes you, but I think he's making use
of you. (You'd better stop him.) No! It's important! And
Dora says, '
Yes, and substantiates my evidence.' He's going
to say no more. He thinlv you've got quite a lot to go on -nath
"
(W.S.I. " Give him my love.") " Mr Bill! He's got quite a nice
feeling to you—a warm one, it's very nice, Mr Bill. He's given
me such a nice comfortable warm feeling from him to you."
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
Feda's impression can be put down to the sitter's attitude, but
Mr Irving notes it as a fact concerning himself and Mr Whitehead
that, " He and I were on very friendly terms. I hked him im-
mensely."
There seems to be some evidential force in Feda's and the com-
municator's expressed feehng that material of value has been got
through, and there is some interest in the phrase (which Feda mis-
understands, or makes a play of misunderstanding) about " making
use " of Mr Ir\ang. It certainly decreases the probability of an
evidential sitting being a string of lucky chances when the com-
municators convey their impression, before verification is attempted,
that the evidence will be found good. How do they know, on any
hypothesis of chance? And it seems to be seldom that such a claim
is made at Leonard sittings, without there being something in it.
Extracts from the " Personal Control'', by " Dora", which
followed at the same sitting :
" You did know w^ho it was I brought this morning? " (W.S.I.
"Yes.") "He wanted to come." O^.S.I. "Can you say? ")
" You know why I gave '
Gur '? That's very important. It
isn't quite right as I've given it—it isn't complete. Keep it as
'
Gur ', for that is part of it. . .
."
Here followed talk on other matters for nearly 15 minutes. Then :
" There's quite a lot been happening about my family lately.
You know why I'm saying it? It's all relevant to what I said
earher in the sitting. It will be all to the good. You know what
I'm talking about ? It's the personal things you can't talk about.
It will mean a readjustment of two lives especially. Do you
know why I'm bringing in Australia?" (W.S.I. "No.")
"Something connected with Australia connected with this.
You know there's been a passing lately in connexion with this."
(W.S.I. " Yes.") " I must put it any way to get it through.
I tried to make it easy before—to prepare people. I can't say
any more about it. . .
."
The " Gur " reference in the first extract is, of course, to the
" Gur or Gurn-something " mentioned on p. 117. Mr Irving notes :
" There is, however, the important addition here that Dora's
'
family '
is concerned." The mention of Dora's family does not,
it will be noted, occur in context with the " Gur " allusion, but
separated from it by an interval of a quarter of an hour's talk ;
it
OCTOBEE 1937 Case 121
does, however, occur in context with, the inquiry whether the reason
for alluding to Austraha has been understood. It is to be noted,
from Mr Ir\'ing's " No ", that he is quite in the dark about this at
the time of the sitting. The connexion between the name Gurnard
and Austraha has been indicated above ; and there is evidence that
INIrs Whitehead had recently had this connexion brought to mind,
for she -writes to Mr Ir%'ing :
"... a lady friend just lately called
to say goodbye to me on her departure for New York and eventually
to Austraha and will probably call on Janet Gurnard at Adelaide.
Turning to the first passage quoted in this case, from the sitting
of Jan. 19, 1937, there is a reference to " two fairly youngish people
connected with this
'
' ; and again in the last passage quoted above,
from the sitting of Jan. 21, 1937, " It will mean a readjustment of
two hves especially." No e\ddence is at present available by which
the relevance of these remarks can be tested ;
they may or may not
prove to be of interest later on.
The points of evidence in this case, good and otherwise, have been
quoted with a minimum of commentary and in the order in which
they occurred at the sittings. Opiiiions wiU vary as to their indi-
vidual value. But I think only a very strong predisposition to reject
all paranormal explanations wiU discount the probabiHty that the
" Gurnard " indications, and their association with the " Austraha
"
theme, display a mental process of which the origin must be sought
for outside the mind of the medium.
We considered the possibihty, to begin with, that a subhminal
region of Mr Irving's mind could have telepathicaUy imparted to
the medium the system of " Gurnard " references which we have
now been able to examine as they came to utterance. It becomes
clear that if we can conceive such a subhminal acti\dty on Mr Irving's
part as taking place, contrary to a set disposition against the " Gur-
nard " theme which is in e\ddence within the accessible areas of his
mind, and as taking place with sufficient energy to impress itself
upon the medium's flow of thought and speech, we still have a
complication to deal with.
The e\adence tends to show that Mr Ir\dng knew httle or nothing
of a number of the points that are woven into the system of Gurnard-
Australia allusions. Certain of these points, if we can assume that
he might have been faintly aware of them, could have had only a
very low energic value in his imagination. On the other hand, a
number of these points could have been active in IMrs Whitehead's
mind, in connexion with her husband's fairly recent death.
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
On the hypothesis, therefore, that a subhniinal activity on Mr
Irving's part is responsible for the structural intention suggested
by the Gurnard-Australia allusions, we have to assume further that
Mr Irving's subliminal self had received telepathically (his evidence
is that he had not received normally) a number of suggestions on
points known to Mrs Whitehead and of interest to her, and had
woven these into its network of, by hypothesis, fallacious evidence
which was to be imparted to the medium. This is a theory that
holds together. It is also, I am bound to point out, a theory Avhich
heaps one assumption upon another, several of them without the
barest evidence of their possibility.
Can we plausibly suppose that Mrs Leonard's trance-mind ob-
tained the necessary details by some telepathic urgency from Mr
Irving's and Mrs Whitehead's minds (or by some prehensive act of
its own) and itself supplied the structural intention that appears to
be shown ? This involves a common and a conveniently vague theory
of the trance-mind and its powers which a little examination shows
to have a serious hole in it. Given that the medium has obtained
correct details by telepathy from the living, the chances of her so
putting them forward as to suggest an intended and a correct
significance are exceedingly small. That which appears in the
presentation of the details, and in the significance upon which they
are made to converge, as a communicator's intention, practically
cannot be provided by the medium alone, without knowledge of
what the communicator's intention would be.
This element of intention (if we are right in judging it to be
present), and the energies that drive it forward to expression, have
to come from somewhere. We can conceive some subliminal blend-
ing of minds, in this case Mr Irving's, Mrs Whitehead's and Mrs
Leonard's, in unconscious telepathic conspiracy to construct a
fallacious appearance of communicators' intention ; but evidence
that so interesting a misdemeanour of minds is in any way possible
has not so far come to light.
The only unitary hypothesis that covers the ground is that the
intention observed (I repeat, if it is correctly observed) has its source
in the communicator-personality, however that personaHty may be
conceived. It seems to be more useful to try to get some notion
of the phenomenon presented by this personality—by no means an
easy matter, or a matter of simple faith—than to hammer on at
the construction of complex and ill-evidenced theories in the effort
to eliminate it. .
October 1937 Correspondence 123
CORKESPONDENCE
Tests for RA2srD0M Distribution
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I should like to reassure Mr TyrreU that in my " Note
on Tests for Random Distribution " no criticism of Mx Tyrrell's
special apparatus or claims was impUed or intended. I should have
thought I made it perfectly clear that my object was to show what
mathematical tests might be employed to discover whether any
given sequence of numbers was or was not a random sequence.
Mr Tyrrell kindly supphed me with a Ust of numbers which I used
merely as an illustration. A series produced by any other mech-
anical contrivance would have served my purpose equally well. It
is therefore a little beside the point for Mr Tyrrell to speak of my
failure to understand the use of his commutator. I was concerned
with the hst of numbers in my possession, and not with what the
Ust would become after passing through the commutator.
I am afraid I am unable to agree with Mr Tyrrell when he goes
on to suggest (p. 102, The Journal, July 1937) that it does not matter
whether Zener cards form a random distribution or not, so long as
the percipient has no opportunity of taking advantage of the fact.
If the packs of 25 are made up d la Dr Rhine so that they contain
exactly five cards of each geometrical smt, and if the subject does
not distribute his guesses randomly over the five suits it is clear
that the binomial distribution \\dll to a lesser or greater degree
break down, and the formiila for standard deviation will be affected
to some extent. The problem requires careful investigation and
cannot be dismissed offhand. To some extent the question has been
discussed in a recent number of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology,^
to which I could refer Mr Tyrrell, but I hope to deal with the
problem more exhaustively in my own forthcoming report.
As regards Jlr Tyrrell's own claims, I have had no opportunity of
seeing his subject produce her results, and I prefer to suspend
judgment until they can be duphcated in an English psychological
laboratory.
Yours, etc., S. G. Soal.
An Ostensibly Precognitiate Dream Unfulfilled
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—I am more interested in the reason for Dr C. D. Broad's
dream {Journal, June 1937) than the fact that it was unfulfilled.
1 Kellog : Journal of Ahnormal and Social Psychology, Sept. 1936.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1937
Most of us had been upset by the necessary abdication of Kmg^
Edward and in a state of nervous apprehension lest something dreadful
might mar or prevent the coronation of King George. I am assuming,
of course, that Dr Broad shared this fairly common feeling, if so, it is
easy to understand how this feeluig of dread present in his conscious
mind might have been dramatized in his dream state.
If Dr Broad, when he awakened, had not immediately got up and
made a note of his dream it would probably have faded away beyond
conscious recall.
j
' ' Wm. a. Garden.
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—The only conmients which I would make on Mr Garden's
letter of July 14th are the following :
(1) There is no doubt that some
of my most vivid and unpleasant dreams are determined by anxiety
about pubhc affairs. I frequently have such dreams about the country
being engaged in war and subjected to aerial bombardment. Two
extremely vivid and distressing dreams within the last few months
have contained the crashing of an aeroplane as a detail. (2) No doubt
I was a good deal worried by the constitutional crisis which culminated
in Edward VIII's abdication. But I was immensely reUeved when
that event took place so smoothly, and I was not consciously worrying
any further about the monarchy. (3) Judging from my other dreams
of similar vividness, I think it fairly certain that I should have remem-
bered the outlines of this one (though I should, no doubt, have forgotten
some of the details) even if I had not made a note of it at the time.
Yours, etc.,
July 14th, 1937. G. D. Broad.
EEEATUM.—JowmaZ for July 1937, page 106, for " WiUiam Banks
Rliine ", read " Joseph Banks Rhine ".
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
GIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Goimcil. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 539.—Vol. XXX November 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A General Meeting ot the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
MANSON HOUSE,
26 PORTLAND PLACE, W.i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 24 November, ^937^ 5-3o p-m.
WHEN
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
ENTITLED
" The Problem of Physical Phenomena in connexion
with Psychical Research
"
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
LORD RAYLEIGH, F.R.S.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on production of an invitation card
signed by a Alember or Associate, and additional tickets can be obtained on
application to the Secretary.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1937
OBITUARY
The Rev. A. T. Fryer
We regret to record the death on 23 October of the Rev. A. T.
Fryer, who was one of the oldest members of the Society, his name
occurring in the first printed fist of Associates {Proceedings 1883).
Mr Fryer took an active interest in the Society's work from the
time he became a member. He reported numerous cases, of which
many are printed in the Journal, and up to within a year or so of
his death—he died at the advanced age of ninety—he kept the
Society informed of items of interest bearing on any aspect of psychi-
cal research which he came across in his general reading, and in-
vestigated cases which came to his knowledge.
He made a prolonged and systematic enquiry into various
phenomena of psychical and psychological interest connected with
the Welsh Revival of 1904-5 : the results were pubhshed in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. xix.
THE ORIGINATING MIND IN EVIDENTIAL
TRANCE MESSAGES
By The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
Although the Society for Psychical Research designedly refrains
from making official pronouncements on the source of mediumistic
communications, indi\'idual members might welcome an oppor-
tunity for stating their opinion. Comparatively few are able to
attend the monthly meetings and the Journal is therefore the sole
means by which they can contribute to our discussions and exchange
views.
Would it not be helpful if members expressed their reasoned
opinion upon the significance of phenomena, mental or otherwise,
which came to the notice of those actively engaged in research and
which were from time to time inserted in the Journals
The last paragraph of Mr Kenneth Richmond's highly interesting
report in the October Journal seems to imply such an invitation.
The following cases would, I think, provide some further material
for an inquiry upon the originating mind, or communicator-per-
sonahty, in veridical trance utterances. I should be interested to
learn what is thought about these incidents by those who do not
share my conviction that one can receive information from discarnate
persons.
November 1937 Originating Mind in Trance Messages 127
The Approaching Death of Old Acquaintances foreseen hy
Communicators while entirely unsuspected hy the Sitter
Dr Arthur T. Shearman
One of my early friends was Arthur Shearman. He presently took
the degree of D.Lit., and worked in connection with the London
University. A few years after his wife's death he retired to the Isle
of Wight. We contimied to exchange Christmas cards, but rarely
corresponded. He knew of my interest in Psychical Research but
expressed no interest in it. I last saw him in June 1931.
To my surprise, he was mentioned in my Leonard sitting of
26 June, 1936, by my sister Etta. She had known him well and had
been on intimate terms with his wife. At this sitting Etta told me
that Arthur's wife wished me to take a message for him, yet not to
send it until I should hear from him, which she was confident I
should presently do.
Towards the end of September there arrived a gift from Arthur,
his latest volume of Poems. When writing to thank him I enclosed
the above message explaining how it came to me.
This message, taken down on 26 June, was about 650 words in
length, and contained reminiscences which I knew to be correct,
together with some six statements about which I knew nothing.
Of the latter the following looked the most interesting because it
claimed that Arthur's wife was able to observe her husband's
occupation ; I give it as received from Feda, the Control.
" She has been helping him lately over something rather
important that she would be interested in ; three days ago
from today she would be concerned in this matter, trying to
manipulate and influence something in a happy and right way.
Three days ago she was doing it."
In his reply, dated 3 October, 1936, Dr Shearman gave his
opinion of the evidence as follows: " This is immense! The chief
matter of the declaration is so direct, and the touches are wonder-
fully accurate. . . . There is scarcely anything that is doubtful. . . .
I should have pounced on anything that would not bear investiga-
tion. I am bound and glad to say that in my judgment proof is
established. Against three (uncertain items) I could point out
thirty-three things that are true. I did not look forward to a
revelation so really important from a scientific point of view and as
welcome to myself as this is." In reference to the above statement
(' Three days ago from today," etc.) he wrote ;
i2
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Resmrch November 1937
" June the 26tli was a day when I was doing something
important, as the printers had made an unfortunate mistake
in my Poems, and I had to see that the matter was corrected.
Three days before the 26th I should be waiting for the com-
pleted edition that contained the mistake. During the preced-
ing weeks I had been correcting the proofs of the Poems. Of
course my wife was always well up in Poetry and was interested
in my work."
It looks as if, as not infrequently happens, the communicator was
inexact as to the precise time of the happening.
Note that this man had specialised in logic. By his Will he left
money " To University College, London, to found a course of lectures
on Symbolic Logic and Methodology," the lectures to be called
" The Shearman Lectures in Symbolic Logic and Methodology."
Dr Shearman's letter also indicated features in the message which
were characteristic of his wife, and inquired under what circum-
stances I had received the communication. We exchanged letters
about this; he made no allusion to his health and I had no reason
to suppose that he was in anything but perfect physical condition.
It is important to add that, in addition to the long message for Dr
Shearman, I received strict injunctions not to tell him that there was
a special reason why it was being given now. Etta said that his wife
did not wish to suggest to liim that he needed help. Her actual
words were :
Feda : "I think there is some reason for her wishing to help
Arthur himself, but don't say anything about this part, just
keep to yourself what she is saying now. She feels he needs
help himself, but doesn't wish to say that to him. She doesn't
want to suggest that there is something that needs help. She is
being rather careful. This lady would be rather careful about
what she did and said."
On my reporting at the next sitting that Arthur was impressed by
the message, Etta remarked, " It may help him. It is the right time
for it. There have been things happening that you don't know
anything about with Arthur, developments."
I supposed that this referred to matters touched on in the messages
and that his wife's aim had been to produce a wholehearted realisa-
tion of her nearness and her general knowledge of his work and
surroundings.
In retrospect it appears as if the communication was related to
Arthur's failing health and approaching death, and that while the
message was designed to give assurance of continued affection it
November 1937 Originating Mind in Trance Messages 129
was not desired to suggest anything that might make him nervous
or apprehensive.
Dr Shearman, who was about seventy years of age,, died on
30 January, 1937. On seeing a Press notice of his death I made
inquiries and learned from the doctor who attended him that " Dr
Shearman had been aihng for some months from a failing heart."
Thus the message I received for him was given at about the time
when Arthur's physical condition was entering its final stage. From
the fact that I was enjoined to hold the messages until hearing from
him, and that confidence was expressed that I should hear from him
shortly, it would appear that the communicator was aware of the
forthcoming pubhcation of the Poems and of his intention to send
me a copy. This is noteworthy, because I had no suspicion that he
was publishing another book, and it was only my receiving a copy
from him which led me to forward the communication. I think,
therefore, that my communicators realised from Arthur's health
condition that the end was not far distant, and that they took the
opportunity of cheering him by messages which proved the identity
of the sender and also (by several evidential touches which are not
included here) her intimate acquaintance with his work and plans
Dr Leonard Hine
Sixty years ago we lived at Baldock, and our most intimate
friends there were a family named Hine. Dr Hine's daughter
married her cousin Dr Leonard Hine whom we often met. In sub-
sequent years I occasionally saw Dr Hine : the last occasion being
twenty years ago when I called on him after his retirement to
Harpenden. He was occasionally mentioned by a mutual friend
through whom I heard of his activity in local affairs and of the
interest he took in his garden.
On 14 May, 1937, during a Leonard sitting which my Secretary
took for me in my unavoidable absence, the name Hind was suddenly
mentioned. My father said :
FedA :
" Will you ask him (referring to me) to keep a look
out about a man passing, an elderly or old man passing that he
has known that may be rather interesting to him on our side.
A man that he has known very well indeed, quite elderly,
you might say an old man because he is over seventy, and he
will be coming in touch with him later on.
" While they are talking I see the initial ' M '
written up. He
may have some interesting things to say later on.
" ffind, ask him {i.e. ask me) if he remembers somebody called
Hind, somebody who has passed over and whom Mi' John sees ;
130 Jour7ial of Society for Psychical Research November 1937
it is from Mr John's old days. Mr John sees him. Mr John
meets so many people that have known him, but the name
Hind will come back to him [i.e. to me)."
In my long experience I have come to reahse that Feda is fre-
quently unaware whether that which she is about to say is a con-
tinuation of a previous topic or the commencement of a fresh one.
In the present instance I doubt if Feda knew whether the personal
name had or had not any connection with the previous description
of an aged man.
On reading this record I realised immediately that the name had
been misheard. I doubt if I ever met anyone named Hind, whereas
the name Hine had been mentioned in these sittings in 1921 when
my father gave messages from Mr Hine, Senr. I assumed that
Feda or my Secretary had misheard the name, but I did not connect
it with the previous paragraph. Had I done so I should doubtless
have thought of Dr Leonard Hine, but as it was I simply put the
statement aside and waited events without speculating on the
subject until I saw a Press notice of Dr Leonard Hine's death on
26 June at the age of eighty-four. I learnt on inquiry that he had
been in failing health for some time.
/ can say with confidence that there had been nothing to bring the Hine
family to my mind, nothing to give me the idea that Dr Hine might be
near his end. Looking back over my sittings I find that it is sixteen
years since my father's previous reference to this family. At that
time he gave evidential items said to have been mentioned to him
while in conversation with Mr Hine, Senr., who had then recently
died. The greater part of these I was able to verify by questioning
Mr Hine's granddaughter.
I have coupled this foreknowledge of Dr Hine's passing with that
of my friend Dr Shearman, but there is an important difference
between the two cases. Messages for the latter were given to me
personally, while the references which proved so precisely applicable
to Dr Hine were not given in my 'presence. They were taken down
by my Secretary who went alone to this sitting which I could not
attend. The fact of my absence weakens the force of any suggestion
that the information had been subconsciously received by the sitter,
and, in some mysterious way, read by the medium from the sitter's
mind. My Secretary who received the messages had not heard of
Dr Hine nor of the family circle to which he belonged.
As for the letter " M " I do not know what it was intended to
imply, possibly "medical". Had the letter " N" been given it
would have been doubly appropriate as indicating the name of Dr
Hine's wife and of his house.
November 1937 Originating Mind in Trance Messages 131
(A) Conversation noticed (B) Thoughts perceived
The Silver Tea-spoons
A. At a sitting with Mrs Leonard on 18 June, 1937, my sister Etta
while speaking in direct control, remarked, " Mother wanted to know
what was the discussion about tea-spoons, not any other kind of
spoons, but tea-spoons. Was anything said about tea-spoons that
had a bearing on mother? " I rephed that I knew nothing about it.
Etta then added, " Mother would like you to ask ". This, like all
the sittings, was taken down by a stenographer verbatim.
On reaching home I mentioned this matter to my wife but she
could not enlighten me. However, when asking our housemaid, she
learned that, on the day before this sitting, while cleaning the reserve
silver, our under-housemaid had commented on the fact that of the
larger silver tea-spoons there were but five and asked if one were
missing. The housemaid had replied that we had only five and that
they had 'previously belonged to my motJier.
After hearing this 1 took an early opportunity of asking each maid,
separately and alone, about this conversation and found that their
accounts agreed. The under-housemaid told me that she had
noticed they were silver because of the lion stamp, and she thought
them larger than tea-spoons now in fashion.
There were therefore three facts mentioned at the sitting which
proved on inquiry to correspond to three facts unknown to the sitter
and which had occurred on the day before the sitting took place.
1. There had been a discussion about spoons.
2. They were tea-spoons.
3. The discussion and spoons related to my mother.
It is to be noted that I had no knowledge of this conversation.
: The only people who knew were the housemaids, residing fifty miles
distant from Mrs Leonard ; one of them had never seen her and the
other had only viewed her in the distance at a pubhc meeting many
years before. How would critics explain the emergence of these
definite statements under such circumstances? I presume their
i
speculations would take one or other of the following forms :
'
(1) That Mrs Leonard or Feda made an astral visit to our house,
and had the good luck to happen upon an incident which would serve
for mention at a sitting.
(2) That Mrs Leonard's subconscious activity was able to function
at a distance of fifty miles and ascertain a casual thought in the mind
of one or other of the housemaids.
(3) That the senior housemaid (who knew the dates of my periodic
visits to Mrs Leonard) unconsciously broadcast a recollection of this
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1937
trifling incident while Mrs Leonard, happening to be in tune with
her, picked it up.
(4) That I had subconsciously divined the memory in the house-
maid's mind and that it had passed from me to the medium.
No other suggestion occurs to me excepting that of chance
coincidence, and if anyone seriously considers this a likely explana-
tion I would ask him to consider the following reference to ike same
tea-spoons given in a Leonard sitting eleven years before, and to note
that in twenty years' experience with Mrs Leonard, during which
I have had four hundred sittings, these are the only occasions on
which spoons have been either mentioned or suggested.
B. 4 September 1925.
Feda :
" Did your mother wish to give you something silver?
"
C. D. T. :
" There is no reason for supposing it, so far as I am
aware."
Feda :
" Your father thinks it is something that has been in
your mother's thought. She seemed to be thinking, '
I should
like them to have this.' It is something old, and she has had
it a long time. Will you inquke about it?
"
My wife and I had that day returned from visiting my mother and
could not think to what this might refer. My mother, shortly after
this date, gave me a set of silver spoons which had come into her
possession at the death of her mother thirty years before, and had
been in the family eighty years. I learnt on inquiry that the
intention had been in her mind for some time. It had not, however,
been mentioned to me nor, so far as I could discover, to anyone else.
In my opinion the above hypotheses would be guesses based upon
guesses.
C. Drayton Thomas.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Theory of the Subconscious Mind in relation to the
discovery of the schumann concerto as reported in
" Horizons of Immortality
"
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Dear Madam,—The world-wide interest which has been called
forth by the finding of the Schumann Concerto, as reported in
Horizons of Immoi'tality, and the comments which have appeared in
the press of various countries, make it urgent to explain without
further delay some reasons which prove that neither the conscious
November 1937 Correspondence 133
nor the so-called subconscious mind of any of those taking part in
the proceedings could have influenced the actual happenings.
Your Journal enjoys a central position in the research work which
deals with matters of this nature, and I request you kindly to give
room to a statement which answers some of the comments.
1. It ought, in the first place, to be observed that Miss Jelly
d'Aranyi was almie with a friend, who did not take part later in the
messages, at the heralding communication on the concerto in April
1933. Her sister, Mrs Alexander Fachiri, the spiritually sensitive,
knew nothing whatever about the experiment until afterwards. This
is one important point to be kept in mind.
2. Miss d'Aranyi herself has stated that she knew nothing at all
about an unpublished violin-concerto by Robert Schumann and has
to be taken at her word. Her veracity is proved, though, by two cir-
cumstances which ought to be kept in mind : (a) Miss d'Aranyi was
utterly sceptical as to the truth of the message received in April
1933, and would not take for granted that such a work did exist.
She thought, as a matter of fact, that the message referred
to the " Fantasia " by Schumann which rarely is played, but a
prompt answer came :
" No, we mean an unpublished work." Then
she asked whether it was a good one or not, as reported in Horizons
of Immortality. If her subconscious mind brought back to her any
recollection of such a work, she would instantly have become aware
that the Concerto was supposed to be an inferior work and not
good for playing. (6) If she had remembered anything at all with
regard to it, she would also have connected this Concerto with the
name of Joseph Joachim, although she had not seen him since her
early childhood, at the age of nine. But the interesting fact is that
she did not think of Joachim. What she did was to look up
Grove's Dictionary, where she found no violin concerto mentioned
among the registered works by Schumann, and she left it at that,
becoming still more sceptical. (Four years later it was brought to
her notice that a paragraph in Grove on the Life of Schumann
described the sought for Concerto.)
Instructed by a new message she, however, approached Sir Donald
Tovey to get further information. If she had had any thought of
a connection with Joachim she would naturally, without further
delay, and in the first place, have asked Joachim's daughter, who
hved in Oxford and whom she knew well, but it was only after Sir
Donald had pointed out the connection with Joachim, evidenced
by Moser's Life of Joachim , that she decided to speak to Mrs Joachim
at the first opportunity.
This point undoubtedly bears out that Miss d'Aranyi had no fore-
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1937
hand knmvledge whatever re this particular Concerto, and also that
her subconscious mind was not at play.
To this ought to be added Miss d'Aranyi's genuine surprise at the
first message, a surprise which can be verified by several persons.
She remained sceptical for a long time, and the sequence of messages
and the dates of correspondence bear out how reluctant she was,
in fact, to act upon this first message and those that followed.
3. If Miss d'Aranyi had known anything about this Concerto
which her great-uncle had refused to play—as it was considered by
him and by Brahms to be an inferior work—she certainly would
rather have abstained from searching for it and would not have
shown any desire to play the Concerto.
One cannot but ask why the subconscious mind of a prominent
artist should invite her to play inferior music? That seems most
enigmatic.
4. These points are sufficiently clear to dispose of Miss d'Aranyi's
conscious and subconscious mind operating, but it has been inferred
that her sister, Mrs Fachiri, could have influenced her. What was
said earlier ought to be repeated, that the sister was not present and
was totally unaivare of what took place, consequently she could not
have influenced Miss d'Aranyi on the occasion in question.
Could she have done it earlier?
If that had been the case her conscious or subconscious mind
would undoubtedly have revealed the connection with Joachim and
Miss d'Aranyi would have acted differently. The fact that Mrs
Fachiri expressed her dislike for undertakings of the kind her sister
was engaged in and would have nothing to do with such operations
—
which can be verified—also demonstrates the disconnection between
the two sisters in this matter.
6. It has further been said in the press that Mrs Fachiri ought
to have known about the Concerto as she once was a pupil of Joachim,
had stayed with him for a long time, and was present at his passing
in 1907. The fact is, however, that she only stayed with Joachim
in Berlin for six months at the age of sixteen and never heard him
speak of the Concerto, which was a painful memory to Joachim.
Joachim left no will mentioning the Concerto. The work had
been written about fifty-three years earlier, and, according to infor-
mation given by Schumann's daughter to Professor Hans Wetzler,
it had been considered to destroy the manuscript altogether at
a meeting between Klara Schumann, Brahms and Joachim, but
Joachim expressed on the occasion his wish to keep it as a memento
of his intimate friend. Obviously Joachim wished to maintain
silence with regard to this aberration of his friend, as he thought.
November 1937 Correspondence 135
If Mrs Fachiri had heard anything from Joachim about the Con-
certo, she would certainly have been impressed by his severe verdict
that it was an inferior work, not worthy of Schumann's genius, and
she would undoubtedly have dissuaded her sister from bothering
about it any more.
7. Another point must also be elucidated, viz. that many people
knew about the existence of the Concerto. It is quite correct that
the composition of the Concerto was known to a certain number of
people, though not to Miss d'Aranyi, nor to Mrs Fachiri, as proved,
and that it was mentioned in two books, but in Moser's Life of
Joachim and in Grove's Dictionary we are not informed of its fate
after Joachim's death.
It is a fact, though, that neither such an eminent authority and
friend of Joachim as Sir Donald Tovey nor Joachim's daughter in
Oxford, nor Franz V. Mendelssohn, another near friend of Joachim,
nor Herr Strecker of Schotts Sohne, the weU-known music pubHshers,
could give any information. Professor Altmann of the Preussische
StaatsbibHothek had not seen it himself at the time and declared
it to be " gesperrt " after it had been traced. The deposition of
the manuscript was done by Herr Johannes Joachim after the father's
death on conditions that " his father would have approved of", he
wrote. They were apparently verbal, and the authorities had the
view that it must not even be shown to the public. One had the
impression that everybody concerned wished to keep the Concerto
well guarded and hidden from the pubhc eye, buried in the vaults
of the Bibhothek. It is not true either that Adolf Busch had played
part of the Concerto in Zwickau. Whatever knowledge there might
have been of such a Concerto having been composed, its location or
its continued existence was not mentioned in the books referred to,
and none of the persons approached had any information to give
in that respect, which is proved by letters written at the time in
question.
8. Finally, it must be said that if a subconscious mind had been
in action it seems very difficult to explain why it took such a round-
about way when conveying the message. Could that subconscious
mind not have acted more directly, rather than take into its service a
board, letters and a tumbler? The actual occasion really was rather
inappropriate also as the two friends sought consolation and
had no thought of hearing about some obscure work by a
master who died eighty years ago. A subconscious mind, one is
supposed to assume, would have connected its impulses to the state
of mind of the persons and not bring forth such extraordinary
tidings.
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1937
9. The fact that Mrs Reginald McKenna and I on separate
occasions reported that the manuscript found was unfinished and
that an incoming message definitely stated that it was quite
complete—which later proved to be the case—cannot be explained
by any reference to a subconscious mind.
The whole argument that a subconscious mind was the instru-
ment for fijiding this Concerto and stating its playability becomes
more involved and unsatisfactory the deeper one considers the impli-
cations, and one is tempted to challenge those who insist on the
presence of a subconscious mind in the particular case to define
unambiguously what they really mean by that agency.
A superficial use of obscure terms must be resisted and plain facts
adhered to.
Yours faithfully,
Erik Palmstierna.
London, 21 October 1937.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 540.—Vol. XXX December 1937
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE
There will be no Meeting of the Society in December. The date
of the next Meeting will be announced in the January number of
the Journal.
CASE OF APPARENT EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
IN THE FORM OF EXTRA-OCULAR VISION
L. 1310.
We print below an account by Dr Warren Coleman of New York of
a remarkable case in which he himself was one of the witnesses.
Although it has not been possible for the case to be as well attested
as might be wished, owing to the interval of time which has elapsed
since its occurrence and to the death of one of the principal witnesses,
it is printed as being hkely to be of great interest to readers, and m
the hope that anyone who may know of similar experiences wiU
communicate with the Research Officer. The date of the occurrence
was 1929.
Accoimt by Dr Coleman, enclosed in a letter to the Society
dated 1937, May 15.
" The following incident appears to be of sufficient importance
to place it permanently on record. I report it without attempting to
explain or even to classify it. I may add, however, that I would have
been loath to beUeve the story if I had not been one of the actors
in it.
A woman, fifty-seven years of age, was operated on at two o'clock
in the afternoon for cataract of the left eye. I called to see her about
ten o'clock the following morning. She was lying on her back in bed
with her head low. The single window, facing the east, was to the
left (the patient's) of the head of the bed. The day was clear and the
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Resmrch December 1937
room was filled with Uglit. I walked to about the middle of the left
side of the bed and stood there facing the patient. After an exchange
of greetings, the patient said '
I can see you '. At first I thought she
was joking. Then, to test her statement, I raised my right arm above
her and asked '
Where is my right hand ?
'
Without the least hesita-
tion or delay she reached up (her arm had been lying beside her) and
seized my hand with her right hand. There was no groping or
fumbhng. If both eyes had been open and functioning the act
could not have been carried oiit with greater precision. I accused
her of seeing me under the bandages. She rephed, '
No, I am not '.
Unconvinced, I asked the nurse whether it would be possible for the
patient to see under the bandages, and she was sure she could not.
Later the surgeon described the routine following such an operation :
Each eye is covered with a '
patch '
(cotton between two layers of
gauze) which is fastened in place with adhesive plaster ; over these
a gauze bandage is wrapped and the whole is covered with a black
cloth mask. Without question the dressings prevented the use of
either eye.
The next morning when I asked the patient if she could see me,
she answered '
No '
: she seemed annoyed by the question and
immediately changed the subject.
The medication the patient received is recorded in detail in the
event that it had any influence on the development of the power to
'
see '
without the mediation of the eyes.
The morning of the operation 60 gr. of potassium bromide was
given in two doses : just before the operation the left eye was
anaesthetized by the instillation of six drops of a 1% solution of
holocain, and movement of the eye during operation was prevented
by the injection of 5 c.c. of a 2% solution of novocain (the O'Brien
injection) : that night she was given \ gr. (gm. 0.016) of morphine
sulphate hypodermically.
The day nurse who was present during my visits confirms the
above account in every particular.
Although I did not witness the following incident I haven't the
least doubt that it occiirred as the day nurse related it.
At a different time on the morning of my first visit the head nurse
called on the patient. The patient claimed to see her in the corridor
before she reached the door, as she opened the door and after she had
entered the room. To prove her claim she gave an accurate descrip-
tion of the head nurse's appearance. The head nurse has since died
but she related the incident to others on leaving the room.
During both incidents, it may be noted, an independent witness
was present.
Decembeb 1937 Case of Apparent Extra-Sensory Perception 139
The patient told her husband that at the time of the head nurse's
visit she did not reaUze that her right eye had been bandaged as well
as the left.
The day nurse states also that the patient claimed to be able to see
faces and places (places with which she was unfamihar) beyond the
range of ordinary vision, and that she had had prophetic visions or
dreams.
The husband states, '
I have noticed this psychic quality many
times during our married life but never before in such pronounced
form.' He also tells me that his wife has found that, if she goes
without food for a few days, she develops this power."'
In answer to inquiries, Dr Coleman has communicated to the
Society the name of the patient, and the name of the Surgeon who
performed the operation.
Dr Coleman has also sent the following statement by the nurse,
dated 1936, December 5 :
" Very distinctly do I remember when
you visited Mrs . Nurse [the Head Nurse] also came in and
Mrs said she saw her, and described her perfectly. The patient
had both eyes bandaged and covered with a black mask. I also
recall at the same visit that Dr Coleman related a very interesting
experience a relative had had during the Civil War.
The patient explained to me that she could see forthcoming events
and places—I should say strange places, and I know that the patient
was not under the influence of any medication."
Dr Coleman writes :
" The accuracy of the nurse's memory is
attested by her recollection of the incident in my own family, recited
to the patient."
Dr Coleman has also sent the following extracts from a letter from
the husband of the patient, dated 1936, Sept. 9 :
" She thought at
the time that she was seeing you with her right eye and did not know
that the right eye was bandaged, as well as the left. The left was the
eye from which the cataract was extracted.
She asked me, while her eyes were still bandaged, if Dr
[the Surgeon] did not have a beard, and I told her '
No She said
that she seemed to see a beard on his face when he called to treat
her. This was after the operation and while the eyes were bandaged.
I could not make out what was in her mind until recently when I
called upon Dr for an examination of my eyes, and noticed that
he adjusted over his face what seemed to be a celluloid mask,
extending to a point below his chin, and in the dark room where he
was examining my eyes, he seemed to have a beard. The mask gave
him that appearance."
k2
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Eesearch December 1937
In connection with the incident of the Head Nurse, the Research
Officer asked Dr Coleman if the patient had seen the Head Nurse
before the operation, as, if so, she might have described her from
memory. Dr Coleman has sent the following extract from a letter
from the patient's husband, dated 1937, June 21 :
" Replying to your note, I beg to state that I do not know whether
Mrs had seen the head nurse before her operation. If the head
nurse was in her room before she was bandaged for her operation, I
doubt if, at that time, Mrs could have recognized her, except by
her voice. You may remember that when you examined Mrs
as to her physical condition before Dr operated, the vision of her
left eye was entirely obscured, and that of her right eye was so dim
she could not recognize me ten feet from her, unless I spoke. I think
we would be safe in saying that she had never seen the head nurse
before the operation. I base this upon the fact that she was not
able to describe to me the physical or facial appearance of Dr
[the Surgeon] and, as he had examined her eyes before the operation,
had she been able to see him, she would have been able to recognize
his features."
CORRESPONDENCE
" Extra-Sensory Perception " in the United States
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam, Having recently returned from a visit to the United
States may I be permitted to offer one or two observations on the
claims now being made by certain groups that an alleged human
faculty styled extra-sensory perception is now being demon-
strated.
During my visit I made a number of inquiries among those persons
from whom I expected to receive varied opinions, and in doing so
I was able to confirm, modify, or vary views that I had previously
held from an examination of the literature.
From this reading I had come to the provisional conclusion that
the American investigators were for the most part enthusiastic
amateurs, who unfortunately lacked the necessary training to con-
duct experiments where the sources of error were both numerous
and difficult to detect. Thus in the early work described by J. B.
Rhine such elementary precautions as that of using cards of the
same size was neglected ; and later work published as recently as
June 1 937 indicated that the experimenters have but shght idea of
December 1937 Correspondence 141
the kind of report which is necessary for scientific men to be able
to imderstand the work being accompUshed.
One day, on visiting a laboratory where work on E.S.P. has been
done, I asked to see one of the cards used in the experiments. The
card handed to me was a blank card apparently made by some
commercial house, and the wavy lines used for the experiments had
been impressed on the blank side by some stamp made of rubber
or otherwise. The first thing that I noticed about this card, which
was, I think, of the type illustrated in the frontispiece to Vol. I,
Nr. 1 of the Journal of Parapsychology, was that the pattern on the
back was one which was well adapted for use with the well-known
Charlier method of card marking. In this case, however, such a
system need not have been used by any person so disposed smce
the impress of the wavy lines was clearly visible on the back of the
card. It is, of course, true that this card might have been the only
one in the United States which had been so impressed and that it
happened by chance that this particular card was put into my hand
on the day that I visited the laboratory. Perhaps my friends among
the statisticians will like to work it out. Whatever their results
may be the experience suggests to me that precautions might be
stricter than they are. Indeed I have my suspicions that many
sources of error are overlooked by the innocent investigators. Had
the early work in magnetism and mesmerism been subject to the
same statistical analysis as E.S.P. in the United States what enor-
mous odds against chance would have been revealed. But ex-
perienced people nowadays are inclined to regard the success of these
tests {i.e. those of the Didier brothers) as probably due to mal-
observation on the part of the investigators and to other sources of
error.
In venturing to make these observations I expect, of course, to
be told that such criticisms are irrelevant, since now the subjects
are not allowed to see or touch the cards, that they are sealed in
opaque envelopes, or that the subjects are in different rooms, cities
or states. I will leave these arguments for others to appraise their
value. I confess, to an old hand like myself, they have a famiUar
ring!
In conclusion, it is, I think, to be desired that our colleagues m
America should try to pay a little less attention to the statistical
analysis of theii" results and should try to take the trouble, however
arduous it may be, to train themselves properly to conduct and
report the experiments on which they base these analyses.
Yours, etc.,
E. J. Dingwall.
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1937
Statistical Methods op Investigation of
Trance Personalities
Dear Madam,—I am filled with admiration for the lucid manner
in which Professor Thouless has explained the difficult statistical
methods employed by Mr Whately Carington in his investigation of
Trance Personalities. There are, however, one or two points on
which I should appreciate further enlightenment.
I should like to know whether all words in the lists used are
assumed to be of equal value. It occurs to me that a long reaction
time for certain words should have a higher significance than an
equally long one for others. On page 233, Prof Thouless points out
that " most people may be expected to give longer reaction times
to 'dead' in W.W.C.'s list than to 'window'." A difference in
response to a word so unexciting as " window " seems to me to be
likely to have a greater real significance than a similar difference in
response to " dead ", a word which normally has emotional con-
comitants. To put the argument in colloquial terms ; if so dull a
word as " window " makes a subject go all worked up, we naturally
think that we have hit upon something rather special, whereas if
people get excited when a horrid word like " dead " is suddenly
shot at them it is only what might have been expected and does
not necessarily mean anything in particular.
The second point on which I feel some difficulty is, as it seems to
me, even more important, as it bears on the fundamental validity
of the whole investigation.
Prof Thouless, in explaining the analysis of variance, takes as his
illustration an enquiry into the egg-laying powers of the hens in
seven different poultry yards. He shows, with admirable clearness,
how the method may be applied and what conclusions may be drawn.
In this example there is a precise arithmetical relation between the
data available, i.e. the numbers of eggs laid, and the characteristic
which is to be measured.
What I am by no means clear about is whether one is justified in
assuming, as has been done in Mr Carington's investigation, that a
similar precise arithmetical relation exists between his data, i.e.
reaction times, and the characteristic which he seeks to measure.
If in the data there is the figure 4, are we justified in assuming that
it should have twice the effect in the calculations of the figure 2 ? If
these figures represent numbers of eggs laid, this assumption is
justified, but is this so when they stand for reaction times?
To illustrate my meaning, suppose that the data given in Table I,
December 1937 Correspondence 143
page 237, are somewhat altered, say that Webb's hens give 7, 13,
14, 7, 4 instead of 7, 11, 11, 7, 4.
The average would then be 9. Sum of squares of deviation from
average 74. Udev 2/4 = 18-5.
Average of averages = 6-14. Total sum of squares = 140.
Mean i; dev 2/4 = 5.
Reconstruct Table II with these alterations.
Degrees of Sum of Mean , ,
y
Freedom. Squares. Square. ^
Between yards 6 5 x 14-85 = 74-25 12-37 3-546
Within yards 28 140 5 3-107
Z = -439
This value for z would still lie just below the level of significance but
the difference is so small, viz. -008, that the referee might decide to
neglect it and reach a positive conclusion. Anyhow it would be
quite easy with a little judicious manipulation of the figures to get
an example where the resulting 2 was above significance. My point
is, would a similar alteration in the figures of reaction times justify
drawing a similar conclusion?
That Mr Carington himself was not entirely free from doubt on
this matter is shown from the fact that he introduced " certain
devices for scahng ... in order to get rid of irregularities caused by
abnormally long reaction times " (page 230). If abnormally long
reaction times are unrehable and have to be scaled down to get rid
of irregularities, why should normally long reactions times be
considered rehable?
The absence of a precise arithmetical relation between the data
and the characteristic to be measured seems to me to cut away the
ground from under the whole investigation, and to render invalid
not only the positive conclusions drawn by Mr Carington, but also
the negative onces arrived at by Prof Thouless.
Yours faithfully,
23 Oct., 1937. H. F. Saltmarsh.
A Precognitive or Clairvoyant Dream?
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Madam,—My friend, Mr. C. Norfolk, of Manor Farm, Bourton-on-
the-Hill, who is in charge of the poultry department of a farm that he
and his brother manage together, had the following veridical dream
three or four nights ago, and recounted it to me today. As it woidd
appear to be an instance of clairvoyant perception, if not, possibly,
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dbcembeb 1937
precognition, I think that should be worth putting on record in the
Society's Journal.
Some time during the night—probably in the early morning, before
rising—Mr Norfolk dreamed very vividly that he was alone in some
large London building, such as a big old-fashioned hotel, or possibly
a warehouse, and that his brother's herd bull was loose in the building
with him. Eventually he escaped into the streets, which were
deserted, and ht by the grey light of a misty autumn morning ; but
he continued to be chased by the bull. The experience was naturally
an unpleasant and rather terrifying one, and it left a considerable
impression on his mind after awakening.
The sequel to the dream was a partial fulfilment, as his brother and
a farm student (who have also attested this account) came up to
the farm early next morning from their house lower down the village,
to find that the bull was actually roaming about the farmyard
;
having escaped some time during the night from the shed in which he
had been shut up recently.
Mr C. Norfolk, the percipient, who sleeps at the farmhouse itself,
about a hundred yards from where the bull was loose, is unaware of
having heard or seen anything during the previous night or evening
that might have led him to suppose that the animal had broken loose;
neither had his brother or others on the farm.
It should be remarked that there was no apparent reason to expect
that the bull should break loose, which it has not done before, and
also that Mr C. Norfolk is not personally concerned about the dairy
side of the business, which is his brother's responsibility.
The percipient does not appear to be given to such dreams, though
his mother had a rather similar (apparently precognitive) dream a
few months ago, regarding a pudding that her servant had made, and
which had failed to turn out as expected or as usual. I was also told
of that dream at the time, but the circumstances and the rather more
commonplace nature of the subject did not appear to justify its
record as any very sure instance of metagnomic percipience. In the
present case, however, I am personally satisfied by a careful con-
sideration of the various factors in the case, and being a next-door
neighbour of the percipient, that there is very good reason to suppose
either clairvoyance or, perhaps, even precognition.
At the same time, however, it obviously cannot be absolutely
denied that the subject miy, conceivably, have heard faint sounds
durmg the night, that gave him the necessary sensory clues, though
subconsciously. In view of the facts, that the percipient's bedroom
faces away from the farm, and at some distance from it, that he was
not personally concerned, that there are always such noises on a
December 1937 Correspondence 145
i
farm at iiight (assuming them actually to have occurred), and that
[
his mother and other neighbours, who are light sleepers, heard
nothing peculiar, a normal explanation appears to be improbable.
The substantial accuracy of this account is attested by :
C. Norfolk, Percipient.
Maurice B. Norfolk, Brother to above.
Geoffrey Harrison, Farming Student.
J. C. Maby, Writer ofaccount.
6 November 1937
[Note : This incident, while of sufficient interest to justify printing
in the Journal, must clearly not be considered as being more than
faintly suggestive of paranormal faculty. Pursuit dreams, of the type
described, are by no means uncommon, and such an incident as the
escape of a bull from a farm is obviously not so very unUkely as to
make the connection with the dream necessarily causal. There is the
additional weakness that the dream does not seem to have been noted
in writing, or reported to a witness before the apparent fulfilment, so
that it is possible that the memory of the dream which presented
itself to the dreamer after the incident took place may be much more
apropos to the actual incident than the dream, as dreamed, really
was. This unconscious " editing " of dreams is not at all unusual,
and must be carefully guarded against in all considerations of dream
material where there is no note made on waking.—C. V. C. H.]
KEVIEWS
Personality survives Death. Communications purporting to be from
the late Sir Wilham Barrett. Edited with a Prefatory Note by
Lady Barrett. With a foreword by R. J. Campbell, D.D.
(Longmans.)
In this book Lady Barrett, M.D., gives selections from her sittings
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard during the past eleven years. Canon
Campbell, an old member of the S.P.R., writes of these records in
his foreword :
" They are worthy of the serious attention of an intelli-
gent and cultured pubhc, partly because of their presumed source
and partly because of their subject matter. These scripts are not
open to the reproach of triviality that is so often and so justly
levelled against soi-disant spiritistic messages. They can stand the
test of critical investigation, and the conditions under which they
were produced were of the strictest scientific precision,"
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1937
Sir William Barrett's long association with the Society for Psychi-
cal Research gives additional interest to the evidence hy which his
identity was established. Not only did he give reminders of intimate
matters which Lady Barrett wonld at once recognise, but occasionally
made statements which were unknown to her at the time of the sit-
ting and which were subsequently found to be correct. On one
occasion (p. 124) when notes were taken in Lady Barrett's absence
by her secretary, Sir William correctly mentioned recent incidents
in Lady Barrett's private life which were unknown to the secretary.
Sir William had been interested in book tests obtained by Mrs
Leonard's sitters. P. 154 recounts his success in giving such a test
from a book in Lady Barrett's house. Evidences of this and similar
character are recorded on pages 91, 152, 163, 173, 192 and else-
where.
In an epilogue (p. 198) Lady Barrett discusses important but less
tangible evidence. " We can and do get a sense of the presence of
our friend in a way that must be experienced in order to be realised.
This sounds the most elusive and deceptive of all modes of recogni-
tion, yet I have known men of sceptical mind, previously sure that
telepathy from the mind of the sitter explains all, become absolutely
convinced of their friend's presence in a sitting, though everything
said was already known to the sitter ;
yet veridical messages given
through a proxy sitter who had no knowledge of their truth or value
has carried no conviction to the same person. Such conviction,
however, cannot be passed on to others ; it concerns the individual
alone who has had the special experience." The truth of the above
remark is confirmed by your reviewer's experience, and many others
will agree.
As might have been expected, Sir WilUam has inquired into the
nature of the etheric body, its functions and its relationship to
physical health. The following paragraphs (p. 112) are specially
interesting. " I have been investigating the etheric body, that body
which is the intermediate vehicle for this mysterious force. The
physical body is not acted upon directly, but always through the
mediumship of the etheric body. The etheric body is the missing
link, and all forms of hfe on earth have their etheric body. Scientists
have been puzzled as to the kind of link, if any, which exists between
the animating force called life or energy, and that which we call
matter. There has been something missing in between and this
etheric counterpart or body is the missing link."
Pp. 176-8 offer interesting opinions on the possibiHties of mental
and spiritual healing, with specific mention of certain factors which
sometimes limit their effectiveness.
December 1937 Reviews 147
P. 55 describes the communicator's frequent diiSculty with
memory during the course of a sitting. These remarks are worthy
the particular attention of students. This highly interesting book
contains a wide variety of material on which hypotheses about the
identity of the originating mind, and the modus operandi of com-
munication may be based. There are also descriptions of the hfe and
environment now enjoyed by the speaker. Two brief passages may
be quoted here, " You might think fun is dead on our side. We have
more fun than ever we had on earth, but kind, good fun, laughing
with people instead of laughing at them." " There are some things
we can't tell you about, that are outside the range of your imagina-
tion. There are experiences one has—if one tried to speak of them
in ordinary language of earth, it would be impossible."
These conversations are interspersed with practical advice for the
enrichment of the inner life. There is an excellent photograph of
Sir William on the frontispiece.
C. Drayton Thomas.
Horizons of Immortality. By Baron Paxmstierna. (Constable &
Co., London, 1937.) Pp. 366. Price 10s. net.
As Baron Palmstierna has already contributed to the November
Journal a valuable letter in which he discusses in some detail the
incident of the Schumann Concerto, which has attracted so much
public attention, it will not be necessary to do more than indicate
briefly the nature of the book which many of our members will cer-
tainly desire to study. The book which is a record of messages from
" the Beyond " received over a period of several years by an experi-
menting group, in which Baron Palmstierna played the part of
recorder, does not profess to go into evidence of identity of the com-
municators and similar matters. Not that evidence of this kind was
absent from the messages, but the messages expressly forbade the
author to deal with that aspect of them in this book, apart from one
or two cases mentioned in the final chapter. The main part of the
book consists of messages of a theological and ethical kind which, it is
claimed, constitute a revelation of importance to the whole world in
the present state of unsettled rehgious belief and political unrest.
They were received through the instrumentality of Mrs Alexander
Pachiri (Adila Fachiri, the viohnist), and the method employed was a
variant of the ouija board. One need hardly add that the author's
own comments contribute very largely to the interest of the
book.
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembee 1937
Beyond Normal Cognition. By John F. Thomas, Ph.D. Foreword
by Professor William McDougall, F.R.S., D.Sc, M.B. (Bos-
ton Society for Psychic Research, Boston, 1937.)
We are indebted to the Boston Society for Psychic Research and
to Dr Thomas for a very careful and elaborate contribution to the
Uterature of proxy sittings. As all our members know, the dif&culty
of excluding the possibiUty of telepathic communication on the one
hand, and the medium on the other, has exercised the ingenuity of
experimenters to frame various forms of technique by which that
possibiHty, if it cannot be entirely eliminated, shall be reduced to the
minimum. One promising form of technique is the proxy sitting in
which care is taken to insulate the medium from all contact with any
person having normal knowledge of facts relating to the communi-
cator. To EngUsh readers the best known application of this method
is probably to be found in Miss Nea AValker's Through a Stranger's
Hands.
Mr Thomas is no newcomer to the literature of psychical research,
and he is to be congratulated both on the success he has had with
Mrs Leonard and other mediums and on the present volume, which
includes, besides a record of his own sittings, a brief and useful
review of the previous literature.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Coimcil hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 541.—Vol. XXX January 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 26 January 1938, at 5.30 p.tn.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Two Series of Experiments in Automatic
Writing
"
BY
COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLVOVO
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1938
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 29 September 1937)
Arnold, Miss E. J., 27 Ardingly Drive, Goring-by-Sea, Sussex.
Blaine, Mrs Emmons, 101 East Erie Street, Chicago, III, U.S.A.
Brown, Mrs J. Hally, ClraignahuUie, Skelmorlie, Ayrshire.
Fleming, Ian L., 22B Ebiiry Street, London, S.W. 1.
Garton, Wilfred, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 353 Romford Road, Forest Gate,
London, E. 7.
Harrison, Vernon G, W., Ph.D., 6 Wolverton Gardens, Eahng Com-
mon, London, W. 5.
Lee, Roger I., M.D., 264 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Marshall, Miss G. F., Enfield Lodge, Pluckley, Kent.
Thomas, Mrs Gale, 3 Morland Close, Hampstead Way, London,
N.W. 11.
{Elected 27 October 1937)
Leggett, Douglas M. A., Dytchleys, Coxtie Green, Brentwood,
Essex.
Miirer, Johan, Eurnlmidsvei 7, Bestiim, Oslo, Norway.
Osborn, A. W., Box 1035 H., Elizabeth Street P.O., Melbourne,
Austraha.
Warburton, Mrs J. R., Arley, Rydens Road, Walton-on- Thames,
Surrey.
{Elected 24 November 1937)
Librarian, The University, Leeds.
Wodehouse, Miss Helen M., Girton College, Cambridge.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 355th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 29 September 1937, at 4 p.m.. The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Dr T. W.
Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh,
Admu'al the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev, C. Drayton
January 1938 Meetings of the Council 151
Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 356th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 October, 1937, at 4.30 p.m.,
Professor C. D. Broad in the Chair. There were also present
:
Lord Charles Hope, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W.
H. Salter, Admual the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 357th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 November 1937, at 3.30 p.m..
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Professor C. D. Broad, Lord Charles Hope, Miss
Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Mr S. G. Soal, Admh-al the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, and Miss Nea Walker ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 151st Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 29 September 1937, at 5.30 p.m.. The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " On a Sermon in St Paul's " was read by Mrs
W. H. Salter, and a discussion followed. The paper will be pub-
lished, it is hoped, in Proceedings.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jantjaey|1938
^ THE MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE, 1937
The Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, the Fifth of the Series,
was delivered by Mr C. A. Mace, Reader in Psychology in the
University of London, at Manson House, on Wednesday, 27 October,
1937, at 8.30 p.m. Professor C. D. Broad was in the Chair.
The Lecture, which is entitled " Supernormal Faculty and the
Structure of the Mind ", has been pubhshed in Proceedings. It can
also be obtained (from the Secretary) as a separate pubhcation,
uniform with the four preceding Lectures, price Is.
GENERAL MEETING
The 186th General Meeting of the Society was held at Manson House,
26 Portland Place, W. 1, on Wednesday, 24 November 1937, at 5.30
p.m., when Lord Rayleigh gave his Presidential Address.
The Address will be published in the Proceedings.
NOTICE OF FEBRUARY MEETING
The attention of Members is called to the statutory notice of the
Annual General Meeting of the Society, which accompanies this
issue of the Journal. The Meeting will be held on the 23rd February,
and after the business of the Meeting has been concluded, Mr S. G.
Soal and Mrs Goldney will give accounts of experiments of various
kinds conducted by them with the medium, Mrs Eileen Garrett,
whose name will be well-known to our members, particularly in
connexion with recent investigations carried out with her in the
United States, and of experiments in repetition of Dr. Rhine's work
in extra-sensory perception.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Hon. Editor- of The Journal
Madam,—The incident of the Schumann Concerto in Baron Pahn-
stierna's book Horizons of Immortality has attracted so much atten-
tion that features of interest in the main part of the book are hable to
be overlooked. The " author " of the " messages " apparently does
not wish liis name to be disclosed, but his ideas are characteristic of a
certain school of thought which flourished in the early centuries of
Januaey 1938 Correspondence 153
the Christian Era. The Great One, the " descending " hierarchies of
celestial spirits, guardian spirits and human spirits, the " fall " of the
soul at birth, the joyful escape to a Spiritual World at death, the fre-
quent use of the imagery of hght are all very familiar to students of
Neoplatonism. Some thoughts, allowing for difference of imagery,
are very characteristic. For instance, on page 244 the soul is com-
pared to the shell of a clock and the body to the works inside. This
recalls Plotinus' suggestion in Enneads IV. 3. 20 that the soul en-
closes the body, rather than the body the soul.
The " Messages " profess Christianity, but of an unorthodox kind.
It seems to be less central than the Greek philosophy, because
Christian doctrine is expounded in terms of Neoplatonism, and not
vice versa. On pages 140 and 141 the Words on the Cross " Why
hast Thou forsaken me ?
" are explained by reference to a theory of a
composite soul, and there is no allusion to the fact, which would
probably have struck a Jewish mind, that the Words are a quotation
from the first verse of Psalm 22. This is not the occasion for a further
analysis of the theology of the " messages ", but they do suggest to
me a " backgroimd of thought " that might have originally been
characteristic of a Greek who had been converted from Neoplatonism
to Christianity, but had by no means abandoned his old philosophy.
There is a possible reflection of Hebrew rather than Greek thought in
the teaching that " we must not gaze into God's hght "
(p. 228), that
a great spirit was blinded by doing so, and that by that error evil
was born (pp. 223 and 226). This is more in the tradition of Philo
than Plotinus.
To sum up, the indications afforded by the " messages " themselves
point to a mode of thought that might have developed by the second
or third century a.d. Why such a mode of thought should be re-
flected in " communications " received today, and through what
intervening stages they have been mediated I do not pretend to ex-
plain. It is interesting to note that the pubhcation of further
" messages " is promised, which may throw some additional light on
the mentahty of the source from which they come.
Yours faithfully,
G. W. Lambebt.
18 December 1937.
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—May I venture on a few comments on Dr Dingwall's very
valuable letter in the December Journall I call the letter " very
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1938
valuable " because it is such a splendid example of a type of
criticism which is, in my opinion, far too common in psychical
research, and it thus affords me an opportunity of ventilating the
matter.
This method of criticism may, I suggest, be called criticism by
innuendo. The modus operandi is really very simple. You discover
a suspicious looking circumstance, and then, without attempting to
show how this could have enabled the alleged phenomena to be
produced were the suspicions justified, far less how it did in fact
enable them to be produced, you claim to have discredited the whole
affair. Take this particular case. Dr Dingwall finds a Zener card
from the back of which he is able to detect the marking on the front.
He does not tell us what were the circumstances in which he was
able to detect this, whether, for example, close scrutiny in strong
light was necessary, nor whether these circumstances prevailed when
the experiments were being carried out.
As he quite correctly says, this card might have been the only
faulty one in the whole of the U.S.A., but I think that we may agree
with his unexpressed conviction that it was not. That, however,
does not materially affect the issue. The point is that, even if all the
cards were faulty, in this respect, would it have enabled the alleged
results to have been obtained by normal means ? How, for example,
could indications on the back of the cards enable the percipient to
obtain knowledge of the markings on the front by normal means
in the " down-through " experiments? In these experiments the
cards remain in the pack until all have been called, so that normal
access to the backs of all but the top card is impossible before the
check is made.
Again, where the cards are screened in opaque envelopes or the
percipient is in another room, indications on the back would not
seem to help. Dr Dingwall skates hghtly over this very thin ice
and, with airy nonchalance, shifts the burden on to other shoulders.
But if he is so " old an hand " that he finds all these things ring
famiharly to him, surely he can enhghten the ignorance of us new
hands and tell us exactly how the trick is done.
I would suggest that it be laid down as a canon of criticism that
precise details must be given showing exactly how the results have,
in fact, been obtained in the cu?cumstances actually existent. The
mere suggestion of suspicious circumstances is not enough, though,
of course, such suspicions should be investigated.
Yours truly, H. F. Saltmarsh.
Jantjaey 1938 Review 155
19 December 1937.
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal.
Dear Madam,—I have read Dr Dingwall's letter on his experience
in America with much surprise. The blunder he describes is one so
gross as to be well-nigh incredible, especially in view of Dr Rhine's
elaborate precautions in this respect as in others. It is all the more
surprising, therefore, that Dr Dingwall should make such a charge
against an unnamed individual or organization. I cannot reconcile
his action with the usual practice iu such matters in learned and
scientific circles. I respectfully suggest to Dr Dingwall that he
should give details of time and place or be content to have his letter
ignored.
Yours, etc., Theodore Besterman.
REVIEW
Telepathie und Hellsehen. By Dr Alfred Frh. v. Winterstein,
{Biicher der Seelenforschung, Vol. II.) Pp. viii + 244. (Franz
Leo & Comp. : Amsterdam—Leipzig—Wien.)
Dr V. Winterstein's book contains, in an enlarged form, a course
of lectures which he delivered at Viemia before the " Urania ", a
sort of popular university. It deals with the mental side of para-
psychology exclusively.
The first four chapters are devoted to the description and analysis
of the various forms of psychical phenomena : telepathy, spon-
taneous and experimental, mind-reading, psychometry, clairvoyance,
premonition. The author always begins with definitions and the
discussion of concrete cases, well selected as a rule ; the end of each
chapter being devoted to a short theoretical discussion. The various
sources of error are very clearly worked out : in particular with
regard to clairvoyance and premonition. A special discussion is
devoted to book-tests and cross-correspondences.
With Chapter V the purely theoretical part of the book begins :
the unconscious in general and automatism are brought upon the
scene. A particular chapter is devoted to the psychology of the
" medium ". Then follows an explanation of what may be called
the great psychical theories : animism, spirituahsm and the hypo-
thesis of Osty's " plan transcendental ". The author always remains
critical, objective and unbiassed. The last decision is left to the
reader, with the single exception that all " physical explanations
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1938
(radiation, " psychical energy ") are radically rejected. A short
explanation of the strange attitude of " official science " towards
parapsychology and a discussion of the relations between para-
psychology and psychoanalysis form the end of the book.
Dr V. Winterstein's book may serve as an excellent introduction
into the subject, but it also is interesting and suggestive for those
who already possess an intimate knowledge of psychical facts and
theories.
The book is written in a very good and readable style. All con-
cepts are clearly established. In the theoretical discussions no possi-
bility seems to be overlooked. And it is a particular advantage of
the book that the facts, the " cases " always occupy the first place.
Hans Driesch (Leipzig).
NOTICE
The attention of our Members is called to Bulletin III of the
University of London Council for Psychical Investigation :
" Pre-
liminary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepathist," by S. G. Soal. This
important publication, which we hope to review later, gives a full
account of a series of experiments with " Marion ", whom many of
our Members had an opportunity of meeting on our premises.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 542.—Vol. XXX Febetjart 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of
the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDA F, 23rd February, 1938, at 4 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the 14th January, ig38, and already circulated.
after an interval for tea
Mrs GOLDNEY and Mr S. G. SOAL
WILL GIVE AN ACCOUNT OF
" Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett."
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of
the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present both
during the transaction of business and when Mrs Goldney and Mr Soal
are giving their account.
M
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fbbbuary 1938
NEW MEMBERS
Evans, Christopher C, 27 Storey's Way, Cambridge,
Evans, John T., Windwhistle, Eadcliffe-on-Trent, Notts.
Librarian, Houston Public Library, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Reeves, A. H., 84 Hillway, Higtgate, London, N. 6.
Thornton, Mrs Lewis M., 98 Cottage Street, New Bedford, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Wolfers, Abraham, 100 Princes Park Avenue, Golders Green,
London, N.W. 11.
Student Associate
Gladstone, F. R., 28 Wynndale Road, South Woodford, London,
E. 18.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 358th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 12 January 1938, at 4 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr Oliver Gatty, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and
Admkal the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Six new Members and one Student Associate were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
The Report of the Council for 1937 was considered, and adopted as
amended.
Mr Kenneth Richmond was appointed Editor of the Journal.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 152nd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 26 January 1938, at 5.30 p.m., Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Two Series of Experiments in Automatic
Writing " was read by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, and a
discussion followed : among those taking part were Lady Barrett,
Mrs Goldney, Mr Herbert, Mr Hettinger, Miss Hynes, Mr Richmond
and Mr T}Trell. A resume of the paper will be pubhshed, it is hoped,
in the Journal.
February 1938 Annual Report of the Council for 1937 159
ANNUAL EEPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOE 1937
(1) Research Department. Under the direction of the Research
Committee, a full programme of investigation was carried out during
the year. The elaborate experiment with Mrs Garrett, began during
1936, was completed, and a short report issued in the Journal. A
quantitative experiment of a simpler type was performed with
another subject, who claimed to be able to acquire supernormal
knowledge by examination of handwriting. The claim was not
substantiated. Quantitative methods were also used in the study
of a long series of predictions in connection with horse racing. This
investigation is not yet completed.
A large number of " spontaneous " cases have been investigated,
full notes of which may be seen by Members and Associates at the
Society's Rooms. Some of the cases have been of sufficient im-
portance for printing in the Journal. Several alleged haunts have
been examined, but none has been of sufficient evidential value for
printing.
Sittings have been held with mental " mediums ", some of which,
it is hoped, will later be reported. An investigation of a remarkable
case of apparently supernormal powers of healing is being carried
out, but much remains to be done before an account can be
issued.
The thanks of the Council are due to the University of London
Council for Psychical Investigation for kindly inviting the Research
Officer to witness an experiment in " Fire-waUdng " by Ahmed
Hussain, and to the International Institute for Psychical Research
for a similar invitation to attend sittings with Fru Lara Agustsdottir,
the Icelandic " medium ".
Mr Richmond's study of the Leonard records has been chiefly
devoted to the nature of material produced by a comparatively
small number of individual communicators, taken over comparatively
long stretches of time. Further investigation wiU take in a larger
number of communicators and the comparison of their methods and
characteristics. A member of the Society has recently lent an im-
portant body of carefully recorded private material in the interests
of investigation.
(2) Research Groups. In accordance with a resolution of the Coun-
cil at a meeting held on October 29, 1936, a series of Study Groups
was formed for the purpose of examining material dealing with
various branches of research. During the year, a number of Groups
have been constituted to study such subjects as Cross-correspond-
ences, Evidence of Purpose in alleged Communications, Witchcraft,
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febkuaky 1938
Haunts and Apparitions, Proxy Cases, Evidence of Identity,
Luminous Phenomena, and others. The Witchcraft Group arose as
a result of a memorandum by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo in
which he drew the attention of the Council to the Missiological Con-
ference held at Louvain in August 1936, at which reports were read
of witchcraft practices amongst African natives. The Group pre-
pared a printed circular, written in French and Flemish, which was
sent to a number of Belgian missionaries in the Congo, asking for
information about any witchcraft phenomena which may have come
Tinder their notice. So far, only two repUes have been received, but
it is hoped that more will arrive in time.
In connection with the Group Scheme, the thanks of the Council
are due to all Members and Associates who have helped to further
the work, and especially to the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, who has
been throughout the driving spirit of the scheme.
As the result largely of the work of these Groups various members
have made arrangements with a publisher for the publication of a
series of books deahng with different aspects of the Society's work,
and based mainly on material printed in our Proceedings and Journal.
The Council have gladly given permission to the authors to quote
from the Proceedings and Journal, as these contain many cases of
great importance for the study of Psychical Kesearch, httle known
to the general pubUc, and not as well known as they might be to all
our members. The first two books of the series are to be pubUshed
in the Spring of 1938.
(3) Several members of the Society, who have been conducting
investigations independently of the Research Department, have
been so good as to give the Society the benefit of the results of their
researches. Among these we may mention Mr S. G. Soal and Mrs
K. M. Goldney.
Mr S. G. Soal has, during the past year, continued his repetition
at University College of Dr J. B. Rhine's work in extra-sensory
perception. Up to the present 120 persons have been tested and
about 100,000 guesses recorded. The general trend of the investiga-
tion appears to be definitely negative.
In particular over 12,000 tests with Zener cards were carried out
during the summer with the medium Mrs Eileen Garrett.
Under the direction of Mrs Goldney blood-count experiments were
carried out by Dr Cuthbert Dukes with the same medium in the
trance state and also electrocardiograph experiments by Dr Geoffrey
Boumey.
Mrs Goldney has also carried out a short series of eight proxy
sittings with Mrs Garrett.
Pebrtjaey 1938 Annual Report of the Council for 1937 161
The results of these experiments by Mrs Goldney and Mr Soal will
shortly be reported to the Society.
(4) It is a feature common to most hnes of enquiry that as in-
vestigations progress, they become increasingly technical and often
demand the apphcation of statistical methods. A few years ago
several of our most active workers became convinced that their
enquiries had reached the statistical stage. The Council, satisfied of
the importance of these enquiries, encouraged their pursuit and the
publication of the results, although fully realising that they would
provide difficult reading. If some members have found recent parts
of Proceedings too technical and dry, the Council ask them to exercise
patience in view of the fact that the use of the quantitative method
indicates that a definite stage of progress has been reached, and that
other lines of enquiry are being pursued, the results of wliich when
pubUshed will be easier to follow.
(5) Presidency. In February the Council welcomed to the Presi-
dency Lord Kayleigh, whose father was President of the Society in
1919 ; he delivered his Presidential Address in November.
(6) Resignation of the Secretary. In November the Council received
with the very greatest regret an intimation from Miss Newton that,
being well past the ordinary age for retirement, and finding the
Society's work somewhat of a strain, she desired to resign the post
of Secretary, but was wilHng that her resignation should take effect
at such a time as should be least inconvenient to the Council. The
Council, on learning this, immediately passed the following unani-
mous resolution :
" The Council desire to place on record their sense of the great
debt which the Society owes to Miss Newton for her services, first as
Assistant Secretary, and afterwards as Secretary during thirty-four
years.
" They feel that it is hardly possible to over-estimate the benefit
the Society has derived from Miss Newton's wide knowledge of all
matters pertaining to its work, her zeal in furthering its interests, her
tact and courtesy towards all."
Miss Newton entered the Society's service in 1903 and in 1909
became Secretary. The Council feel sure that they are expressing
the feehngs of the whole membership of the Society in wishing her
all happiness in her retirement after so long and so devoted a period
of service. It has been agreed that her resignation shall take effect
as from Ladyday 1938.
(7) The Editorship of the Journal. The Council also regret to
record the resignation by Miss Nea Walker of the post of Hon.
M « O
S ^^ P-i
O O 00
C5 O l-H
00 iH
CO i-l
«OXOOXOOO(MX
o o
o o
o o
O 00
m
S .2
CD ™
O 01 00 Ci OO 00
O CO in CO -Tti
O TiH O O O
^ iH (M Tl<
1-1
y s s
s
S
1
1
^3 S
o
s
a
a.
S o
^1
o o o
U5 o o
iH O rH
iH
O CO
iH
OS
'oi
(M
CM
S
S S
<^ -S
I i
>
o
o
QJ
f-i
'
O
+^
t>
r CO
CO
CO CO 5J
Oi tH 00
^15
^ 3 g o
O " ^
CD ^ g •«
si §
^ .2 &i
s ^ g s
ft, A, -5
5 a ,C
^ o ^ ^
CJ ^ * CO
2 s -s a
ts O I—1 R
CO O O uO
O uO O »0
O i-H ITS
T-l
O VO Tj<
rH in
i-H O CO
erf 00
O (M O
O CO (M
^ ^ ^ CD t> 00
CO I> 00 CO CO CO
o
rH
o
CO
GO (M
rH
§ 1^
^ in oi
X o
s
22 '^s
a, !
o
c
o
•S I, 2
fi^
-^1 CO
to
CO
Id
a
. 3
"I
^ m P^
O OS
ft S ^ 03
'Si y
^ <; (i>
s S ^ a
^ i: a o
I O 5 fi
ca pi
^ a
OS
§§3
Pi
CP c o
oo
CO Uj OJ
a fl
•
goo;
ijj
1.
•rJ 1j "1-1
:
«« ^ O o'^^'M
Cm rH rH rH
a>^c+i':rfc+l
pi
CD
o
Q JJ P, I
a p
cq
<4<
o o O) Oi
1-1 o o a rH
la o o t>- 00
CO ITS
S5 e
.s
as
65 -S S
K| -
Si «
s .g ,
S ^
1.0 3
S s S
» e
6s
S H
CO a
rH
<D CO
O (M
O 00
o CO
rH
I>
rH
£284
in o
00
o o
a
3
P
a. s,^
O 1—1
T-H l-H O
o o 1—i rH CO
o Ci iH
\a I—
I
CI
tH I>
CO CO
rH ^ -fcS to
J3 ^ o)
rH P,
CO GJ 3 O
^ " ^ rn
2 s
o
o
O
O O £ go*
OS
0^
§
Cl
o
ft?
O
CD
o
o
o
o CI a
rH
00 CO
c+1
S o
c- (H 03
t P ^
CO
CD
3
O
I—
I
W
Oi o
Ci CO
rH
00 t-H
CO CO
rH
o
tH CO
rH a:
Si
is
2 =
CO ^
|o
"a
5 01
^ O CO
^-grH
^ P, 4>
|.S8
i 'o i s^s
S- -tJ O 4) r-f
3 O >CO
a o
-
o CO Oi
CD o
CO o lO
o o CO
rH
1
fl, a,
1> CO M d
i-l
rH CO I> o
rH
) i-t (M CO
00 ur5
1
Tti CD CO
(N
s.
c+t
?1 '
O
8 <! <!
1=^
-S
O O
to
t3
3
a
3
O
a
o
d
in
So
glQO
o o
o
ft
t=
ia
S
o
ft
a
t3
p.
B
o
O
>.
i
c3 CP
g 7; ^ ^
o3
o: I-l -5
in P
o S
« §
& t3
S g
CO
« a
.a » g
§ fl ^
p
n a
o o o Izj
b£i ne !» CO
o3 eS
CO M h-
O O O tH o o
o o o o o o
O O O 00 O I>
CO i-H 00 O to OS
O O IC
r-r =*i « «^
t3
d
_ ^
d S >.
^ CO p-
'3
:
CO ^ ^
i
^ ^
'
ce o3 [H
:
^ .5 I
9 9
t3 '3
PI M
HH hH
CO yi [V)
O O Hi i-q p£i
O 00 (>J
o o o o
o o o o
o o o
rH CO CO O
in cq <M i>
c+1 crt r crt
(M CO
wiOt^rHaioooo
rH-^OOrHdOOOO
OOClOJCDOlOOOrH
lOCOrHOOOOiOOCD
C+lrHo4crtCOO0(M OJrH
rH C+1 C+i ^-
^ C*J
o o
t+t
February 1938 Annual Report of the Council for 1937 165
Editor of the Journal, on account of her removal to a greater distance
from London and her desire to have more time to devote to other
work. Miss Walker kindly agreed to become Hon. Editor in 1934,
at a time of great difficulty, and the Council wish to place on record
their warmest thanks for the valuable work she has done.
(8) Exemption from Income Tax. As indicated at the last Annual
General Meeting the Society were then pressing a claim for exemp-
tion from Income Tax, and the Council are glad to state that at the
hearing before the Special Commissioners in July last the Society
were completely successful and obtained not only future exemption
but a refimd of tax paid during the last six years, on its own invest-
ments and also on the investments comprised in the Eesearch
Endowment Fund and the Myers Memorial Fund. This success is
gratifying, both as affording a much needed rehef to the Society's
financial position and also because in order to obtain this exemption
it was necessary to estabhsh the fact that the Society's work was not
merely of interest to its members, but of pubhc utiUty. At the hearing
before the Special Commissioners Lord Rayleigh quoted with great
effect some passages from his father's Presidential Address to the
Society, and Dr T. W. Mitchell gave an impressive account of the
contributions made by leading members of the Society to the develop-
ment of psycho-therapy. A large share, however, of the credit for
the happy result belongs to Miss Newton, without whose initiative
and careful preparation of the Society's case no such success would
have been achieved.
(9) The Finances of the Society. Notwithstanding the exemption
from Income Tax, the Society's financial position is such that every
economy must be effected if the Society is to continue its work with
efficiency, and without making substantial drafts on its capital
resources. The House and Finance Committee, of which Mr H. F.
Saltmarsh was appointed an additional member, went into the
situation very thoroughly and presented to the Coimcil a report, the
recommendations of which were unanimously accepted by the
CouncU, and will, it is hoped, materially improve the position.
As mentioned in the Last Annual Report, the Council thought
the time was ripe for making an Appeal to persons outside the
Society's membership. This Appeal was at first sent only to a
small number of persons with disappointing results. Now that
exemption from Income Tax has been granted, it will be possible to
use the scheme employed by many Societies whereby donations, to
be received free of tax, are spread over a number of years. With
the help of this scheme it may be possible to interest donors whom
the previous Appeal failed to reach.
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1938
(10) Myers Memorial Lecture. The Council appointed Mr C. A.
Mace of Bedford College to deliver the 5th Lecture under this
foundation. The Lecture was deUvered on the 27 October 1937 and
has been pubUshed in Proceedings, and as a separate pamphlet,
serial with the preceding Myers Memorial Lectures.
(11) Library. Owing to the pressure of her professional duties,
Miss Kathleen Watkins resigned early in the year her appointment
as Hon. Librarian, and Mr G. H. Spinney, Assistant Cataloguer in
the Department of Printed Books, British Museum, kindly consented
to take her place. The Council are deeply indebted to Mr Spinney,
who since his appointment in April has devoted much time to work
in the Library.
In addition to Members and Associates who consulted books in
the Library, 65 Members borrowed books, the total number of
books lent to Members being 474. Seventy-four books were bor-
rowed by members of the public through the National Central
Library for Students.
We are glad to note a substantial increase in the number of
Members who have availed themselves of the privilege of borrowing
books from other Libraries through the National Central Library
for Students.
(12) Obituary. During the past year the Society lost in Professor
F. C. S. Schiller a Vice-president and former President and Member
of Council. A memorial notice will be published in the Proceedings.
Among other losses we may mention the Rev. A. T. Fryer and
Professor Fraser-Harris ; also Mrs F. W. H. Myers, who had been
a Member of the Society from its earUest days and took a prominent
part in the foundation of the Myers Memorial Lectureship.
(13) Membership of the Society. During the year 33 new Members
and 2 Student Associates were elected. The total loss in Members
from deaths, resignations and other causes was 44 Members and
15 Associates, leaving a net decrease of 11 Members and 13 Associates.
The total membership of the Society now stands at 699.
(14) Publications. Two Parts of the Proceedings were published
during the year ; Part 150 in October and Part 151 in November.
The Secretary's sales to the general pubhc amounted to £25 7s. 5d.,
and to members of the Society, £8 2s. lOd., and through the Society's
agent in the United States, £12 6s. Od.
(15) Meetings. The following meetings have been held during
the year :
i
:
'i
27 Jan. " A Eepetition of Dr J. B. Ehine's Work in Extra-
Sensory Perception ", by Mr S. G-. Soal. : .
,
. i
.
Febeuaby 1938 Annual Report of the Council for 1937 167
24 Mar. " On Some Kecent Investigations carried out by the
Society ", by Mr C. V. C. Herbert.
28 Apl. " On Experiments with S. F. Sambor and other Mediums ",
by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
26 May. " On the PossibiUties of a Theory of Psychical Eesearch ",
by Mr C. C. L. Gregory and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
30 June. " A Review of Mr Whately Carington's Work on Trance
PersonaUties ", by Professor R. H. Thouless.
29 Sept. " A Sermon in St Paul's ", by Mrs W. H. Salter.
*27 Oct. The Fifth F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture. " Super-
normal Faculties and the Structure of the Mind ",
by Mr C. A. Mace.
*24 Nov. Presidential Address by Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
* General Meetings.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities
To the Hon. Editor of The Journal
Sir,—The force of Mr Saltmarsh's arithmetical criticism of
my poultry-yard example depends on a fallacious view of the nature
of statistical significance from which I presiimed that my hypotheti-
cal referee was free. This is the view that when the level of statistical
significance is reached, a hypothesis that was previously uncertain
becomes certain. There is really no discontinuity in the amount of
justified conviction with which a hypothesis can be accepted when
P changes from a value just below -05 to one just above. In my
example, P was below -05 but only shghtly below, so the referee
would have felt a strong (and justified) conviction that there was a
real difference between poultry yards. Mr Saltmarsh shows that
shghtly different figures for one of the poultry owners would have
brought the value of P practically up to -05. So it would, and, if
these had been the figures, the referee would have felt slightly (but
no more than shghtly) stronger conviction of the reahty of the
difference. It is true that he might have given the verdict to the
poultry-owners now although he withheld it before, but with very
httle more conviction of the reahty of the difference. It is necessary
to draw the line somewhere. An examiner may pass a student with
41 marks while he fails one with 39, but he does not make the mistake
of supposing that one is much better than the other.
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Februaky 1938
If Mr Whately Carington's results lay as near the level for signifi-
cance as this, we should certainly conclude that they provided strong
evidence for the hypothesis tested. They are, in fact, very far from
that level and no small alteration of the figures could bring them
there. The effect of Mr Saltmarsh's changes in my poultry-yard
example is not, therefore, parallel to anything that could happen to
W. W. C.'s results.
There is no assumption in W. W. C.'s argument that all words in
the lists are of equal value or that reaction times of normal length
are reliable. His reason for scahng down abnormally long reaction
times was not that these were subject to an error from which the
others were free, but that any error in these would, if they were not
scaled down, have an undue influence on any quantities calculated
from them. The free-association test (like all psychological tests)
gives results that are more or less unreliable as a result of random
variabihty of the results ; a subject who gives a 2" response for
" window " might have given, let us say, 1-6" or 2-4" and perhaps
does at other times of testing. This is less serious than might appear,
because the effect of random variation in the quantities measured is
always to reduce any measure we make of the relationships between
different test results. They cannot produce significant inter-
correlations between test results although they may obscure correla-
tions that would otherwise be found. It sometimes happens that a
test is useless as a measuring instrument because the amount of
random variation is so great that no rehable measurement of different
individuals can be obtained from it. That is clearly not always the
case with W. W. C.'s use of the word-association test, since his tables
show many significant relations. On the other hand, it is sometimes
the case, since sometimes subjects do not even show significant
similarity to themselves {i.e. W. W. C.'s " Individuality "). This is
what is discussed in my Section VII. The main point is that the
low reliabihty of tests of some subjects gives no reason for doubting
significant measures of relation when we get them ; it means only
that we are less likely to get them.
When, however, the test results are known to suffer from large
random error, this fact does decrease the force of negative evidence.
This, I think, is Mr Saltmarsh's main point. He says that my nega-
tive conclusions are rendered invahd as well as W. W. C.'s positive
ones. But what negative conclusions have I drawn? Only that
W. W. C.'s investigation does not provide evidence for the autonomy
of communicators. That, surely, is incontestable. If Mr Saltmarsh
refers to my page 273, he will see that I do not draw the conclusion
that it provides evidence against the autonomy of communicators.
Febeuaey 1938 Correspondence 169
For that purpose, it would be necessary to show that if there were
autonomous communicators, the method woiild have been suffi-
ciently sensitive to reveal them. That seems to me not to have been
shown.
The situation that the investigation gives us no evidence either for
or against the hypothesis is an unsatisfactory one, but this unfortunate
conclusion does not detract for the merit of W. W. C.'s achievement
of devising the general lines of a method which might be used with
other tests than the word-association test. If anyone wishes to carry
out a similar investigation with some other kind of psychological
test, I should suggest that the first necessity is careful experimenta-
tion with different kinds of test in order to discover one that com-
bines with the other requirements for this sort of investigation, the
merit of high self-consistency as shown by high correlation between
different apphcations of the test to the same person at different
times.
Yours faithfully, Robert H. Thoxjless.
(Professor Thouless does, however, appear to suggest—on p. 275
of his paper—that further tests by Mr Carington's method could
provide evidence against the autonomy of communicators : "If
these tests too give negative results, the conclusion that there are no
autonomous communicators in seances will become a very probable
one." Ed.)
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
The Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. I. No. 2, June 1937. Duke
University Press, Durham, N.C. Editors: William McDougall
and William Banks Rhine.
This number begins with a paper by Dr Warner on the question of
how far the apparently supernormal results in E.S.P. experiments
can be explained by the failure of the statistical methods in the face
of what he calls " runs of luck ". He describes experiments in
which he attempted to isolate " runs of luck " in results obtained by
pure chance. He was unable to obtain significant figures. He con-
cludes that he can find no evidence for the " run of luck " hypothesis.
In a final note, he stresses the obvious danger of testing a number of
people selected at random, choosing the few who score high for fur-
ther tests, and then combining with the material obtained in the
further tests the high scores from the prehminary tests. This is, as
he points out, selecting data after the data have been obtained. Mr
Macfarland and Dr R. W. George contribute an interesting paper on
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1938
tests carried out with E.S.P. cards, some of which bore the usual
symbols, and others the symbols in a greatly distorted form. Out
of thhteen subjects, only one was found to give a significantly
higher score with the normal cards. The average score was no less
than 7-1 liits per 25 cards.
An experiment of the effect on E.S.P. of varying the size and num-
ber of the symbols is described in a paper by Dr Louisa Ehine. She
made over fourteen thousand trials with child subjects, using cards
with normal symbols mixed with cards bearing unusually large sym-
bols and others with five symbols instead of one on each card. No
significant discrimination was found, although the total results were
significant of E.S.P.
Miss Bond contributes an interesting paper describing number
guessing experiments carried out with backward children. The
results appear to be significant, though the conditions were not all
that could be desired.
Mr Vernon Sharp and Professor C. C. Clark describe E.S.P.
experiments carried out by them in the Science Department of the
School of Commerce, Accounts, and Finance of New York University.
They made 126,075 trials, and conclude that E.S.P. is a real faculty.
The existence of a faculty for E.S.P. amongst blind and partially
blind subjects is discussed in a paper by IVIiss M. M. Price and Miss
M. H. Pegram. They carried out a series of tests in the Parapsycho-
logical Laboratory of Duke University using 66 subjects whose sight
was affected, ranging in age from 8 to 35 years. Ordinary E.S.P.
cards were used in some tests, and in others similar cards which had a
blank card glued to their faces, and were also enclosed in an opaque
envelope. Forty-five per cent, of the subjects gave significant scores.
The scores with the sealed cards were found to be higher than those
with the ordinary cards. The experimenters were not able to corre-
late ability to score with age or extent of blindness.
The number also contains a glossary of the words used in the
descriptions of E.S.P. experiments.
The Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. I. No. 3, September 1937.
''^
In an Editorial Comment mention is made of various E.S.P. ex-
periments which have failed to yield significant results, including
those of Mr S. G. Soal.^ The Editors stress the importance of such
results being pubhshed, and add that the pages of their Journal are
as fully open to records of negative as of positive results. It is
pointed out that E.S.P. cards are now on sale at book and novelty
1 Journal, S.P.R., 1937, Vol. XXX, p. 55.
Febeuaey 1938 Notes on Periodicals 171
stores in America at very reasonable prices. These cards are of two
types, Pack No. 1 having plain symbols, and Pack No. 2 having
symbols in five different colours. A plate is given showing the
appearance of the faces and back of the cards of No. 1 pack.^
In an important paper, Dr J. F. Kubis and Mi- F. L. Rouke de-
scribe an experiment in spontaneous telepathy between similar and
dissimilar twins. They obtained six sets of twins, one set similar,
and the rest dissimilar. The procedure was as follows : each twin
sat in a separate room, and the experimenter sat in a third room.
The experimenter concentrated his mind on a series of E.S.P. cards,
and each twin was asked to guess the cards. A system of light
signals indicated to each twin when the experimenter passed from
one card to the next. The object of the experunent was to see if the
two sets of guesses would correspond owing to telepathic interaction
between the twins, but this was not explained to the subjects, who
assumed that the sole object was to guess the experimenter's card.
No significant correspondence between the guesses was observed,
although two of the subjects scored significantly high.
Professor J. B. Rhine reviews the effect of distance in experiments
in E.S.P. He refers to experiments carried out at Tarkio College
wrhere subject and experimenter were separated by distances varying
from 0 to 1,400 ixdles. The method used was for the subject to call
through a pack of 25 cards which was not disturbed until after the
test was over. The average loits per 25 for the whole series of 26,125
trials was 5-52. Distance seemed to make no significant difference.
In another series of experiments carried out at Duke University,
distances up to 3,000 miles were used, giving an average of 5-15 hits
per 25 over 23,925 trials. Again, distance was not found to be
significant.
Miss D. R. Martin describes experiments with E.S.P. cards in
which scores which were above apparent chance were obtained. She
concludes that one of three hypotheses is true : (1) That there is an
unknown error of procedure. (2) That the mathematical analysis is
at fault. (3) That a faculty of E.S.P. really exists.
Miss M. H. Pegram describes a liighly interesting experiment in
which two series of tests were made, one with a view to obtaining
^ Two specimen packs of Pack No. 1 have been received by the Society, but
unfortunately it has been foimd that they are totally unsuitable for serious
experimental work. The pattern on the backs extends up to the edges of the
card, and, owing to irregularities in cutting, the pattern varies in different
specimens so that cards can be identified by looking at the back. It would be
highly undesirable to use such cards in any tests where it was required to rule
out telepathy, or where there was the slightest possibility of the subject seeing
the backs of the cards. Research Officer, S.P.R.
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1938
high scores, and the other with a view to obtaining low scores. Miss
Pegram herself acted as subject throughout, and made a total of
184,970 calls. The method was for her to call through a shuffled
pack of 25 cards, and then to check the results. It was found that
the average score for series in which a high score had Ijeen desired
was significantly high and that the other was significantly low. It
is interesting to notice that in the attempts at high scoring there were
more correct hits towards the beginning and end of the pack than
in the middle, and that the reverse was true of the attempts at low
scoring.
The mathematics of the E.S.P. technique is reviewed by Dr J. A.
Greenwood and Mr C. E. Stuart in an interesting paper. They con-
trast the critical ratio and methods, and show that each is capable
of rehable application in E.S.P. tests.
Mr G. N. M. Tyi-rell contributes a letter deahng with the criticism
of his work in E.S.P. which appeared in the first number of The
Journal of Parapsychology.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Coimcil hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maiataining this privacy.
To fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Miss Nea Walker,
as mentioned in the Annual Report printed in this issue, the Council
have appointed Mr Kenneth Richmond to be Editor of the Journal.
No. 543.—Vol. XXX '
' March 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 30th March, igjS, at 5-30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena "
... BY
Miss ISABEL NEWTON
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.^'
Members and A ssociaies will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be servedfrom 4.45 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited. •
. .
•
,
N
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected on 26 January 1938)
Chaudhuri, Mohit Chandra, Gauhati, Assam, India.
Di Veroli, Dr Ing. Giorgio, Via Manzoni 43, Milan, Italy.
Williamson, Lamar, Monticello, Arkansas, U.S.A.
{Elected on 23 February 1938)
American Society for Psychical Research, 40 East 34tli Street, New
York, U.S.A.
Benedict, Mrs A. L., The Tudor, Beacon Hill, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Burton, Mrs Arthur, Stenson, Cromer, Norfolk.
Dodd, Archibald, J.P., Cowley Mount, Cowley Hill Lane, St. Helens,
Lanes.
Duguid, Julian T., Westlands, Hill Head, Fareham, Hants.
Harvey, Professor J. W., 6 Claremont Road, Headingley, Leeds, 6.
Murray, Lady, 19 St. James's Square, London, S.W. 1.
Roller, Mrs Huxley, 52 Circus Road Mansions, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Welsford, Miss Enid E. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Young, Miss A. L. G., 81 St. Edmunds Drive, Stanmore, Middx.
NOTICE • .
The attention of Members is directed to a Resolution recently passed
by the Council, whereby Members who have friends outside the
Society specially interested in the subject of a paper to be read at a
Private Meeting, can apply to the Hon. Secretary for permission to
invite such friends, and the Hon. Secretary has authority in his
discretion to permit such invitations. Members will understand
that the seating accommodation at Private Meetings is limited,
and the Hon. Secretary will be glad if requests for permission to
bring friends are made to him as much in advance of the Meeting
as possible.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 359th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 January 1938, at 4.15 p.m..
The Hon. Mks Alfbed Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Mr S. G. Soal and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt
;
Maech 1938 Meetings of the Council 175
also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
Although there was not a quorum, the members present decided
to transact the business before them, subject to confirmation at the
next Meeting of the Council.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Sir Robert Gower, K.C.V.O., O.B.E., D.C.L., M.P., was co-opted a
Member of Council.
The Hsts of Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates for the
year 1938-39 were considered.
The 360th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 23 February 1938, at 3.15 p.m..
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, ]\'Ir S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr Ken-
neth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The proceedings at the last Meeting of the Council were duly con-
firmed. The Minutes were then read and signed as correct.
Ten new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 361st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 23 February 1938, immediately
after the Annual General Meeting, The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Ina Jephson, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Admfi-al the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, R.N., also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal,
Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
Lord Rayleigh was re-elected President, for the year 1938-39.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt Hon. Treasurer, Mrs W. H. Salter Hon. Editor of the
Proceedings, and Mr G. H. Spinney Hon. Librarian.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour,
Professor C. D. Broad, Mr Whately Carington, the Hon. j\Irs Alfred
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Resmrch Maech 1938
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Sir OUver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Research Committee : Mr Whately Carington, Mr Eric Cuddon,
Mr Ohver Gatty, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Mr Gerald Heard, Lord
Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr Kenneth
'
Richmond, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Mr G. N. M.
Tyrrell.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss Isabel Newton, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt and the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1938 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr S. Freud, Professor
Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, M.
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Professor Dr G. A. Schwaiger, Dr Rudolph Tischner, Carl Vett and
Dr Elwood Worcester.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A Dallas, David Gow, J. Arthur
Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, Rev. W. S. Irving, Professor J. H.
Muirhead, Kenneth Richmond, Professor Charles Sage, Dr A.
Tanagras, Dr H. W. C. Tenhaelf, Professor R. H. Thouless and Dr
Th. Wereide.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 153rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 23 February 1938, at 5 p.m., Miss Ina
Jephson in the Chair.
Mrs Goldney and Mr S. G. Soal read papers on " Experiments
with Mrs Eileen Garrett ". Mrs Goldney's paper will, it is hoped,
be published later in Proceedings. Mr Soal's paper, which is part of
a long study on Extra-Sensory Perception, will also be published,
it is hoped, in Proceedings.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
A report of the Annual General Meeting held on 23 February,
1938, will be printed in the next issue of the Journal.
March 1938 Series of Experiments in Automatic Writing 177
TWO SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS IN AUTOiAIATIC
WRITING 1
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
The experiments in question took place in 1900 and 1921-1922
respectively. The first series was described by me in the Journal for
1901 and to this account of mine I beg to refer my readers. My
friend, the late Serge Kaznakoff (called " C " in the Journal) and I,
wrote using a saucer with an ink mark, which saucer moved over a
sheet of paper with the letters of the alphabet. We got a series of
messages from a certain Mainoff, a Russian anthropologist and
ethnographer who had died a few years before. I still think they
gave us good evidence of cryptomnesia or latent memory—but
nothing more. From this standpoint they were undoubtedly
interesting. Kaznakoff's bona fides I had no reason whatever to
impugn, but it goes, in my opinion, without saying that if undoubted
instances of knowledge apparently acquired supernormally had then
been obtained by us, this lack of disbelief on my part in his good
faith would not have been enough. This raises an important ques-
tion, how far are we scientifically entitled to take an automatist's
good faith for granted ? Personally I would draw the line somewhere
between cryptonxnesia (which Science can be said to accept) and
clairvoyance, or cryptomnesia and thought transference. To postu-
late bo7ia fides without further guarantees when we are faced with
occurrences, at least experimental occurrences, as yet unrecognised
by science, seems to me unscientific and illogical. I admit however
that the distinction is not always easy to draw.
The second series of experiments took place when I was already
a political emigre, in Finland and in Germany. The supposed
medium was a Russian emigree girl whose pet-name was Tarda
—
though, as a matter of fact, she never laid claims, I believe, to any
" abnormal " powers. Again we wrote, using a saucer and alphabet.
The very first experiment was a brilliant success, the " spirits
"
giving us correctly the page number of a book of 450 pages, opened
by me at random (unknown to anyone), under conditions which I
still think completely precluded the possibility of cheating. I
therefore determined to make a decisive effort to get proof positive
of clairvoyance of this kind and held with Tania a series of some
thirty seances. But, alas, we never got a second successful experi-
ment like the one at Wiborg ;
suspicious circumstances were noticed
(though there was no downright exposure) and in the very, very few
^ This is the summary of a paper read before the S.P.R. on 26th January.
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech 1938
successful experiments which still deserve attention there was
always some flaw tending to invalidate them. Two such cases I
briefly described in the paper read before the Society. In the first
the contents of the page of a book were very correctly summarised
by the saucer, under conditions which seemed to render normal sight
impossible, but it turned out that Tania had had the opportunity of
seeing (and perusing) the book the day before. In the second case,
where the contents of a page of a book were also reproduced very
exactly, the possibihty of the medium having normally glanced at
the lines at the bottorn of the page was not excluded ; the information
given in that " message " can therefore be explained in a normal
way if we assume that the contents of the book (which belonged to
Tania) were so well known to her that she was able to summarise
those of a given page by merely seeing a couple of lines at the bottom.
On the whole, the thirty or so seances with Tania were a dis-
appointment. It has often occurred to me that it almost looked as
if " someone " had attempted to interest me intensely in the matter,
in the beginning—only to " let me down " afterwards
!
My Tania experiments are described in detail in the defunct
Zeitsckrift fiir kritischen OJckultismus, I Band, II Heft (1926).
From this series we are entitled to draw some instructive con-
clusions :
(1) In the course of more than thirty seances, I obtained only one
result which might be claimed as primafacie supernormal. It shows
what an awful waste of time such experimenting is liable to be. It
also shows that private mediums and " subjects "
—even handsome
and innocent-looking Russian emigree girls—are no guarantee that
the supposed phenomena are authentic. It is true, I repeat, that
there was no drastic exposure, but there undoubtedly were sus-
picious peculiarities and circumstances.
(2) An attempt made by Mme Z., a lady-friend of mine, and my-
self to entrap Tania and to convict her of preparing beforehand
passages from books and then palming them off on us through the sau-
cer, as if obtained " clairvoyantly ", was a failure. And yet (it was,
however, years later), the same Mme Z. maintained in my presence
that on this occasion we did expose Tania, and persisted in main-
taining this in spite of my statements to the contrary. Now, on this
point, there can be no doubt whatsoever (see Z.fur krit. Okk., ibidem,
p. 90). This shows what tricks our memory will play on us at times ;
it also shows—an interesting point—that the so-called mythopoeic
tendency is apt to work both ways!
(3) Though Tania's subsequent .behaviour repeatedly gave rise to
well-founded suspicions, the first Wiborg experiment remains
Maech ]938 Series of Experiments in Automatic Writing 179
entirely unaffected by what occurred later. Whatever be its ex-
planation (I am reluctantly ready to postulate chance-coincidence),
it cannot be explained away by cheating on Tania's part. From
which I will conclude that in psychical research, each case must be,
broadly speaking, judged on its own merits. And, as a rule at least,
we must not ponder too much over a medium's general reputation
—
unless, in the strict sense of the word, it has been compromised
irremediably.
(4) In the Tania experiments, I unwittingly spoilt them myself,
by suggesting to the " spirits " in the very beginning (but after the
first successful experiment) that the saucer should be allowed to
" look " (under the sheet of paper) at the page number or at the
text printed. When making such a suggestion I was under the im-
pression of a successful seance I had attended many years before and
of some statements made to me by M. Aksakoff, in whose experience
there had also been cases which seemed to imply physical limitations
so far as clairvoyance of this kind was concerned.^ Of course my
intention was to make the conditions gradually as stringent as
possible should the results obtained permit it, but unfortunately
such a moment did not present itself, and meanwhile the suggestion
made by me opened for the supposed medium probably undreamt of
facilities of fraud. On the whole, a striking instance, I should think,
of the impression which preposterous and pseudo-scientific hypo-
theses are apt to make even on sober-minded and sceptical investiga-
tors.
I do not, however, regret too much the waste of time and the dis-
illusions connected with my seances with Tania—but only for the
sake of the first Wiborg trial. No other incident in the whole course
of my many investigations impressed me to such an extent, and I
will never forget the feeling of intense and unspeakable bewilder-
ment I experienced when faced with its strikingly successful result.^
Perovsky-Peteovo-Solovovo
^ I also recollected the cases of " transposition of the senses " repeatedly
alleged to have been observed in bygone days by magnetisers and mesmerists.
2 1 subsequently ascertained that the book in question had the tendency of
opening at times on the same page (193). I emphatically maintain that I made
this discovery, but later ; but some people may think it possible that I sub-
consciously was already aware of this detail when using the saucer with Tania
at this first seance, and therefore could have unwittingly influenced the result.
I can only say that I reject such an " explanation " and prefer—though without
enthusiasm—to postulate a fortuitous coincidence.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
M. 110. CASE.
The following incident suggests normal perception of the un-
expected reappearance of a lost object (a ruby), but perception
which failed to reach the level of conscious recognition. The point
of interest is the directive energy set going by the subliminal aware-
ness of the stone's position, so that a motor automatism was ex-
perienced, compelling the experient to turn and consciously recog-
nise the object of perception. The directive purpose of the movement
is indicated not only by the result, but by a preceding impression
as though an independent fraction of the personahty were speaking
about the ruby.
The case illustrates the way in which an impression of direction
by an exterior influence can arise, whether or not the experient
thinks of it as exterior, and whether or not there is evidence of a
paranormal element in the occurrence.
4 January, 1938. To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—The enclosed account of finding a lost article, about a
month ago, by my wife, may be of some interest as it relates not
merely the sequence of the events but stresses the affective impres-
sions actually felt by her at the time.
I can corroborate the account, as I was told about this ruby being
lost and examined the ring on the same day the stone was missing.
I suggested it might have dropped into the washing basin and gone
down the sink and thought no more about it.
My wife called me the next morning to look on the floor of the
scullery to see the stone ghnting in the sunlight and told me the
curious feeling she had of being caught by the shoulder and made to
look round, saying there was no tactile sensation, but we agreed it
was analogous to the sensation of being held back on a pavement
when about to cross a road in traff^ic, no doubt a common experience
to some of your readers.
I attribute this to the Doppelganger or that part of our person-
ality which would split off' and dramatize itself beyond this incipient
stage in abnormal and hysterical subjects.
Yours faithfully, Max West.
Mrs West describes her experience as follows :
I lost a ruby from a gold ring I was wearing last December, and
having washed some articles in very soapy water thought that most
Ukely it had come out then and been washed down the drain so gave
Maech 1938 Case 181
it up as lost. The following morning I was in the same room, when
I seemed to hear somebody say, " What about that ruby? " and
without thinking that I was alone, audibly repHed, " Oh that's gone
for good, it is of no use troubling about that." By that time I
reahzed that I was replying to no visible person, but before I could
think further, I seemed to be grasped by the shoulders and twisted
round, and the first thing my eyes rested upon was the ruby on the
floor shining in a shaft of sunhght made by the outside door being
open a crack. I do not wish it to be thought that I felt my shoulders
grasped, any more than I heard any particular person's voice, but
that I was aware of myself as a person inside my body, but the same
shape, which heard and felt quite well without my body.
E. E. West.
This account is of interest, not only as a record of the incident, but
also as an attempt to describe the contradictory impressions ex-
perienced during a moment of dissociation.
In a further letter Mr West suggests a view of the incident which
is worth discussion :
" You ask if Mrs West could have perceived subconsciously before
becoming conscious of the impulse to look. Yes, but not with the
ordinary senses . . . that surely is excluded in subconscious percep-
tion—unless you mean that the eye registered the object absent-
mindedly (the attention being focussed elsewhere) and then the
latent image of the object set the motor reaction going when the
previous preoccupation had relaxed? I think not, in this and other
cases, also in dreaming cases, though I grant you that in auditory
perception a delayed focussing is more hkely, we often fail to hear at
the moment and recall later. But in this instance the surprise on
first seeing would have brought the attention to focus at once had
there been any retinal reception. . . .
" My wife is quite positive she had no normal sense perception
previous to the urge to look and that she often experiences similar
occurrences accompanied by some affective tonal quahty."
Mr West further suggests that " there is now so much cumulative
evidence of supernormal perception that we ought to consider the
hypothesis of a subtle body interpenetrating the grosser ;
organised
(not dupUcate) to be able at times to stimulate the appropriate cor-
tical centres."
It seems likely that perception by normal eyesight can fail to reach
conscious recognition more commonly than Mr West here supposes,
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
though undoubtedly the delay in recognising sounds is easier to
observe. None the less, we are familiar with the experience of
failing to " see " something that we are actually searching for, when
it is straight in front of our eyes. " Retinal reception " is consistent
with anything from complete blindness (if the optic nerve does not
function) to complete cognition of the image ; and there is much
evidence of an intermediate stage of subliminal cognition. The
positive conviction of an observer that he has not " seen " an object
which has been in his field of vision can indicate no more than the
absence of a consciously recognised image ; and in the case of an
observer who has been moving about in a room where a ruby lies in
a shaft of light, the probability of its having been normally per-
ceived, at some level of cognition, appears to be large.
There is a risk of confusing the evidence for paranormal functions
if we assume that the anomalies of normal sense-perception belong
in the same class of phenomena.
CASE : A DREAM SUGGESTING PLANNED
EVIDENCE OF SURVIVAL
The experient in the following spontaneous case, Miss I. Sollas, is
known personally to Mrs Salter, to whom she wrote in the first
instance for an opinion upon the dream and its sequel. We quote
the description, given in this letter, of her experience ; the dream
occurred and was noted in May, 1937, and facts relating to it were
discovered during the following December.
Letter dated January 14, 1938.
" In this dream my father came holding out to me a handful of
fountain pens. I could not understand what he wanted me to do with
them. He went away to his room and came again bringing another
handful and anxiously asking me to '
send them to the same address '.
" I awoke puzzled, and began to remember that shortly before
the end^ he had given me a parcel of silver paper, saying it was the
collection of a lifetime, and would I take it for him to the hospital.
Did I know the address? He said he would have taken it himself if
he had known what address to take it to ; was I sure I knew the
address? It seemed to me very odd at the time, because the Hos-
pital is a place everyone knows, including himself.
" Well, after some time, I was in his study and found a box with
a label, '
old fountain pens ', containing a handful of them, and
thought this looked like something interesting. Later, in another
1 Miss Sollas's father died on Oct. 20, 1936.
Maech 1938 Case 183
part of the room, I found another box similarly labelled and also con-
taining a handful—corresponding to the two handfuls of my dream.
I asked a friend if she knew whether okl fountain pens were ever
collected for charities, and she said Yes, she had once seen an adver-
tisement asking for them.
" My father was interested in the experiment made by—was it
Myers? —someone who left a document locked up for survivors to
see if they could tell its contents after his death. ^ I remember my
father saying he should have thought some simpler device should
have been thought of, and this seemed to me like his simpler version
of that experiment."
In replying to an inquiry on points of detail, Miss Sollas added the
following notes :
'
' To me the dream was convincing because of the combined vivid-
ness and fogginess of it. I mean a vivid impression of an effort to
put an idea across.
" The scene of the dream was a study of many years ago, and he
went upstairs—which meant, in that house, that he went to his bed-
room. This point is of importance : because one of the boxes I
found was on a bookshelf at one end of the room he used in this
house as both study and bedroom. Tliis box I may, as you suggest,
have seen without noticing it (i.e. before the dream). The other box
was at the bedroom end of this large room, in the remotest corner of
a drawer of his chest of drawers. This box I should never have seen.
" I beheve he made the plan long ago in the former house, and kept
one box in his bedroom and one in his study. The labels look as
though made long ago."
It appears that the request to have silver paper delivered at the
hospital, with the curious insistence on the address, was not made
during illness, when some degree of mental vagueness might have
supervened. Miss Sollas writes on this point
:
" When my father gave me the silver paper he was in fair health.
He wasn't very well, but he was working. He had not then called
in the doctors who told him to expect the end.
" He laid great stress on the difficulty about the address. I
imagined at the time that he thought we had to find a collecting box
and might not find the right one. But he did not say that. He
simply asked repeatedly for assurance that I knew the right address.
And when I returned, he asked again if I had been right about the
1 Apart from the leaving of his own sealed envelope, Myers strongly advo-
cated the leaving of distinctive objects concealed for purposes of 'post mortem
reference. Cf. Proc, vol. viii, p. 248 :
" It is an experiment which everyone
may make—which everyone ought to make."
—
Ed.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
address. I told him I had taken it to the hospital porter himself. He
made no comment."
Among different interpretations that can be suggested for this
experience, there is the view that an actual unfulfilled intention can
persist after death, independently of personality, and make an im-
pression upon receptive minds. There seems to be no evidence here
of an actual intention to send the old fountain pens to the hospital,
nor would the existence of two packets fit this hypothesis. Miss
SoUas took the trouble to find out one fact that could be ascertained,
and wrote : "I have this morning " [Feb. 4, 1938] " made inquiries
at the hospital. They say they never have collected fountain pens."
The hypothesis which obviously requires the most careful examin-
ation in respect of its probability is that the father, having dehber-
ately planned to leave material for evidence of survival (the two
collections of pens, coupled with a pecuharity that would be remem-
bered about the sending of silver-paper to the hospital with a
repeated, and apparently meaningless, insistence on " address "),
subsequently effected an impression on the daughter's dream-mind
so as to connect the remembered pecuharity and the word " ad-
dress " with the boxes of pens which he would have expected to be
ultimately discovered. It is a point to note, on this hypothesis, that
if the pens had been discovered before a communication could be
made, there was no teUing what they were for. The dream, or a
variant of the dream, could still have been an explanatory link,
though the mind of the dreamer would have appeared more hkely
to have constructed the evidence.
It can be assumed, to avoid a hypothesis of discarnate influence,
that the evidence is at fault in this respect : that in fact both boxes
of pens were noticed and forgotten, so that the dream could be built
upon a subUminal conjecture and a wish to make it seem true.
Against this must be set the evidence that Miss Sollas is a careful
observer who keeps dated notes of an experience. It will be seen
that the one lapse of memory to be traced in her contemporary notes,
printed below, is the forgetting of a fact which supports the hypo-
thesis of communicator's intention.
Miss Sollas sends the following extracts from her contemporary
notes, with corroboration of their being a correct copy of the origi-
nals (these were written only as a personal record, and so were not
witnessed at the time) :
«
" May 22, 1937. Dreamt F. came downstairs to a room which
might have been the study of 173 [Woodstock Road], and brought
me a handful of old fountain pens and asked me to find an address
March 1938 Case 185
to send them to. He went upstairs and came again with another
handfuL I asked him did he mean me to sell them for the value of
the iridium in the nibs. I could not get clear as to what he wanted."
" Then," Miss SoUas adds, " the dream continues but the subject
changes. There is a marginal insertion by the words '
another
handful ',
saying 'for " same address
"
" Dec. 3, 1937. Found, in study, side by side, two cigarette boxes,
one containing silver paper and one fountain pens, labelled '
old
stylos '
(actually they are stylos)."
Miss Sollas's first account, printed at the beginning of this case,
was, we have seen, in a private letter to Mrs Salter and was put down
from memory. Miss Sollas notes : "I am surprised that I did not
mention in my letter to Mrs Salter that the first box I found was
beside one of silver paper." The point distinctly suggests the laying
of a trail of evidence, and the arranging of a link to connect the
previous sending of silver paper to the hospital with the motive to
be inferred for the keeping of old fountain pens.
" Dec. 29, 1937. Found in drawer in study another box (same
kind cig. box as on Dec. 3) also labelled stylos containing old foun-
tain pens and stylos."
Miss Sollas appends this corroboration :
" My friend Mme Pelli
has read these extracts and will sign the following statement
:
" I have checked these copies, comparing them with the entries,
and I find them correct.
(Signed) M. Pelh."
It is a very important point that the unconscious and quite
innocent " secondary elaboration " of a dream-memory should be
taken into account, and all cases in which a dream is recalled and
recorded after its apparent verification have to be accepted with
caution. In this case, dream-notes are on record long before the
verifying event. It is interesting, however, to note an example here
of secondary elaboration, and to note also that Miss Sollas has
observed it and can explain the occurrence. The point concerns the
appearance of " iridium " in the dream-record and Miss Sollas's
recognition of the fact that this was not an element in the actual
dream. For anyone of less accurate memory, " iridium " would have
become incorporated in the recollection of the dream. Miss Sollas
makes the following note :
" You will see that I have stated in the record that I asked in my
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
dream if my Father meant me to sell the pens for the value of the
iridium in the nibs. I know that I did not actually use the word
'
iridiuin '
in my dream. It was when I was thinking it over on
waking that it occurred to me. I was rather surprised when on con-
sulting a friend she immediately said they contained that, and I
suppose I put it in the record merely in order that if I forgot, I should
know in future what might make them valuable. The record was
written only for myself."
In considering the probability of discarnate influence in a case of
evidence presumably arranged by the communicator before his
death, it has to be remembered that there is evidence suggesting
telepathic leakage, into the minds of automatists, of thoughts con-
cerning the contents of a sealed envelope, while the person who has
deposited the envelope for purposes of post mortem reference is still
alive. The drawback about the procedure recommended by Myers
is that the commimicator's intention may take effect, telepathically,
before he has time to become a communicator, and remain latent in
a percipient's mind. But it seems impossible to devise any test of
communications to exclude any and every form of telepathic
hypothesis ; and it has to be considered, in each case, how far the
existing evidence for a fugitive and uncertain form of telepathy
between living minds can bear the weight of explaining what
appears to be a constructed communication.
The easiest normal explanation for the experience would seem to
be that Miss Sollas had opened and forgotten the first box of pens, also
the accompanying box of silver paper (if we reject her actual view of
the facts and form our own view upon her evidence of what might
have happened) : that this reminded her of the unexplained peculi-
arity about the errand to the hospital, and led to the construction of
a dream. The second lot of pens, occurring in both dream and
reality, would then have to be ascribed to coincidence, or else
accounted for by a further and less probable departure from the
evidence of the experient. Such an explanation is valid, but depends
on the probability of our conjecture being better than the witness's
memory. We have also to consider (a) that the hypothesis of dream-
evidence constructed ad hoc by the dream-mind leaves the curious
actions of Miss SoUas's father unexplained, both in insisting on the
hospital " address " and in leaving the collections of pens and of
silver paper as he did ; and {h) that in the case of a dream constructed
ad hoc there would be considerable inherent improbability of a
delay from May until December before the hypothetical subhminal
trickster thought fit to enjoy the success of its plot.
Maech 1938 Correspondence 187
CORRESPONDENCE
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—I can Lionestly plead not guilty to the charge of entertaining
the fallacy mentioned by Professor Thouless, nor can I see that the
language which I used in my letter suggests it. It is true that I
spoke of a " positive conclusion ", but I would remind Professor
Thouless of the words which he put into the mouth of his referee, " I
might be able to give you a definite answer." It may be taken for
granted that everyone understands both " positive conclusion " and
" definite answer " in their proper context. Conclusion and answer
must be statistical and restricted by the limitations of statistics.
I am not so innocent and childlike as to cherish the behef that
statistics can, in any circumstances, afford certainty : in fact, like, I
imagine, the majority of people, I am inclined to take the pronounce-
ments of the statistician with a larger pinch of salt than that which
they themselves prescribe.
Professor Thouless treats us to a ghmpse of the obvious when he
tells us that the con\'iction of the hypothetical referee would have
been only slightly alfected by a shght alteration in the figures. How-
ever, if it should happen that the values of P in question were round
about the arbitrarily fixed standard of significance, this shght
difi'erence might have relatively important results. He gives the
example of students sitting for an examination ; a difference of two
marks passes one while the other fails. A trivial difi^erence, perhaps,
in their relative merits, but, Oh, what a difference in the result ! One
may eventually receive a degree and all the attendant honour and
glory thereof, while the other remains mere common clay.
Presumably the staticians mean something when they fix a
standard of significance. We all know that it is arbitrary, but surely
it comes to this, that it is agreed that whatsoever reaches or sur-
passes the standard of significance shall be considered significant.
However, all this is, as it seems to me, irrelevant to the point
which I raised.
The question which I asked was, " Are we justified in assuming
that there is a precise arithmetical relation between the data of j\Ir
Carington's investigation and the characteristic which he desires to
measure? " I am afraid that I cannot see that Professor Thouless
has answered, or attempted to answer, that question.
Perhaps I did not make my meaning sufficiently clear ;
may I,
therefore, try to remedy this by an example ?
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
Suppose an automatic machine tool is being used to perform a
certain process, say, a turret lathe to machine up small castings,
then, even if the tool itself be accurate, the output will not be
reliable unless the rough castings are true within the tolerated limits.
I do not question the accuracy of the mathematical machine ;
what I want to know is whether the raw material on which it works,
i.e. the data supphed by the word association tests, is reliable within
tolerated limits.
If the turret lathe is turning out shell fuses, the tolerated limits of
the finished product would be to the order of a fraction of a thou-
sandth, and the permissible limits of error in the castings propor-
tionately small. Were the machine one for turning out broom
handles, one could allow much wider hmits in the stock.
Mr Carington's results were all so near to the standard of signifi-
cance that any lack of precision in the data could not fail to have
disastrous results for the reliability of his conclusions. Mr Carington,
in private correspondence with me, has reproached me for what he
calls my passion for astronomical figures. Had the P's at which he
arrived approached more nearly to the astronomical, I should have
felt happier as regards his results, as there would then have been
some margin for error in the data.
Concerning the other point which I raised, I note that there has
been no assumption that all words in the lists were of equal value.
May I, therefore, in the light of this information, ask one further
question? What was the method used in assessing the different
values of the various words?
This is surely pertinent to the enquiry, for, if the words have not
been treated as being of equal value, some must have been rated
higher than others, and there seems to be no obviously infalhble
method by which this could have been done.
As regards that which Professor Thouless thinks is my main point,
I need add nothing to the note which you. Sir, appended to his
letter.
Yours sincerely,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Experiment in Extra-sensory Perception '
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—The letters of Mr Saltmarsh and Mr Besterman, in your
issue of January 1938, require separate treatment, although I have
no intention of being drawn into a long controversy over E.S.P.
Mr Besterman's surprise at my remarks seems quite uncalled for,
Maech 1938 Correspondence 189
but his demands for proofs are easily met. The card I examined was
in Prof. Gardner Mm^hy's laboratory in Columbia University and
was taken up in his presence. Moreover, there was really nothing
surprising about it, since in the early days Professor Rhine was using
cards of varying sizes, and had to be persuaded to have them cut
" more evenly ". Furthermore, if Mr Besterman cares to call at the
Society's rooms, Mr Herbert will doubtless show him the latest cards,
for wliich a patent has been applied for by Professor Rhine, and
which are being sold all over the United States (until their crudity
compels them to be withdrawn), and he will see what Professor Rhine
thinks, after seven years' work with E.S.P., are suitable cards for the
experiments. Although this blunder may be " so gross as to be well-
nigh incredible ", Mr Besterman will be able to study it himself and
not have to beUeve me that it exists.
Mr Saltmarsh adopts the now famihar method, used so extensively
at Duke, of trying to divert criticism from experiments shown to be
full of faulty procedure to other experiments, where the same
objections do not apply. It is like a case of a chemist, who, having
claimed to discover some new material, due to using filthy retorts,
claims further investigation of his discoveries by saying that in
other experiments retorts are not used, but delicate scales, and when
these are shown to be faulty turns to something else.
Professor Rhine, after seven years' work, does not yet appear to
understand that when the backs of the cards are seen it is advisable
that they should be as uniform as possible and not so designed as to
make the variations easy to note. As to his other experiments, they
may or may not be faulty ; but of course I am unable to say where
the fault, if any, hes, without seeing them, any more than I can say
how a stage illusion is done without seeing it.
Finally, I want to make it quite clear that I make no personal
charges against any individual or organization. Professor Rhine's
cards can be seen by anyone at the S.P.R. together with instructions
for their use. It is quite clear that he thinks that E.S.P. may be
demonstrated through them, even when the backs are visible.
They speak for themselves, and if they do not suggest the kind of
conditions under which E.S.P. is obtained in the United States and
elsewhere, nothing can do so. I do not deny the existence of E.S.P.,
and maybe it can only be made apparent under the new methods of
psychical salesmanship. If so, then we had better receive courses of
instruction, and the sooner the better. I shall have much pleasure
in attending them.
Yours, etc.,
New York, Feb. 2, 1938. E. J. Dingwall.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech 193S
KEVIEWS
Some Cases of Prediction : A Study. Edith Lyttelton. Bell.
2s. 6d.
The cases in Mrs Lyttelton's book are chosen to exemphfy different
kinds of precognitive experience, from among the many accounts
sent by listeners after her broadcast in the B.B.C. series, " Enquiry
into the Unknown ". All are corroborated by at least one person
who knew of the prediction before it was verified. The predictions
are classed as showing (1) precognition or chance coincidence,
(2) precognition or simple telepathy (with chance coincidence highly
improbable), (3) precognition or telepathy of a complex and con-
jectural kind, and (4) precognition without much alternative.
It is well pointed, out by Mrs Lyttelton, quoting a comment on the
point by Mr Tyrrell, that the probability of a few almost incredible
coincidences having occurred by chance, in the experience of a very
large number of people (radio listeners form an extensive " sample "),
is an incomplete criterion in these cases. The great majority of
coincidences between two events in time are observed after the
second event has drawn attention to the first. In all the present
cases the first event—an impression or dream—has occurred with
some additional feeling that it has significance ; there has been at
least the impulse to tell someone, and in some cases to act upon a
premonition. There is, in fact, some drive associated with the
impression, which in greater or less degree forms an energic link with
the subsequent event. The proper comparison to have in mind is
between impressions /e?< to be significant which appear to be verified
later, and those which do not appear to be followed by any justify-
ing event.
It is important, however, not to assume that the feeling with
which an impression or dream is invested is necessarily concerned
with the subsequent event : the feeling may arise from a complex
of one's own and not from any justified sense of an exterior signi-
ficance. It is a matter of evidence. Two people who dreamed, one
of them twice, of an airship disaster, both inferring danger to the
R 101, have produced corroborated records which are interesting to
study. One corroborator says, " I find this all particularly remark-
able, in so much that he is not a person who dreams often, and is
usually quite unaffected by the small events which we are apt to
call coincidence." Testimony hke this, together with evidence of
anxiety or action to avert an anticipated event, helps to isolate
precognitive cases which are specially worthy of consideration.
Maech 1938 Reviews 191
University of London Council for Psychical Investigation, Bulletin
III (1937) :
" Preliminary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepathist."
S. G. SoAL, M.A., B.Sc. With 13 Illustrations, 5s. net.
This excellent paper describes a series of tests carried out on
Joseph Kraus, well-known as a stage performer under the name of
Marion. He exhibits in a highly skilful form most of the " mys-
teries " which appear from time to time on the music hall stage, and
often leave the spectator with a pleasing sensation that he nuiy have
been observing something really supernatural.
Those who have had experience in psychical research are generally
sceptical about such performances, and sometimes go so far as to say
that elaborate investigation of them is a waste of time. But a httle
reflection will show that this is not so. So httle is known about the
" really supernormal if it exists, that it must be the duty of investi-
gators to give attention to any phenomenon for which no explanation
is forthcoming, even if the chances of a supernormal explanation are
more slender than usual. Again, there is much value in under-
standing the methods of what we may call " mental legerdemain ",
just as there is in knowing the methods of manipulative conjuring.
Mr Soal carried out a large number of tests, experiments being per-
formed in the finding of hidden objects, the identification of playing-
cards chosen by members of the audience, the apparent perception
of drawings, colours, etc., through sealed envelopes, telepathy, and
psychometry. As might be expected, the findings are that there is
no evidence for the possession by Marion of any supernormal
faculties. There is a great deal of evidence that Marion possesses
very considerable skill. Mr Soal writes in his summary, " . . . it is
shown that Marion is able to recognise a new playing card, that he
has previously handled, when it has been mixed with several other
cards of identical make and design. The results strongly indicate
that, in this feat, he relies mainly upon his tactual sense and upon a
study of the contact which the card makes with the surface of the
table ". This, and other points made by Mr Soal, should be con-
stantly borne in mind in appraising experiments which claim to
demonstrate the existence of a supernormal faculty by means of
tests with cards.
The paper should be read with care by all practical workers in the
field of psychical research.
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1938
International Institute for Psychical Research, Bulletin IV :
" Hori-
zons of hmnortality and the Subconscious Mind.
'
' Baron Erik Kule
Palmstierna, G.C.V.O. 2s. net.
This paper comprises an earnest attempt to discredit the sub-
conscious mind and its potentiahties, with so sweeping an effect that
it becomes necessary to restore the abohshed function in other terms :
" the soul may somehow influence the character of the messages."
The concrete point at issue, whether messages that led to the finding
of the Schumann Concerto were derived from or through an uncon-
scious process, is only obscured by an inimical attitude towards the
process itself. The evidence for supernormal action in this case
would look stronger if the argument did not in effect suggest that
any automatic action can be accepted as supernormal.
It is another matter to follow Baron Palmstierna's method with
scripts, as exemphfied in " Horizons of Immortality " : to preserve a
receptive attitude and to judge the discourses received by their
intrinsic, rather than their evidential, quality. This is a procedure
that has its own value, apart from scientific criticism, and may be
highly relevant to the study of the intuitional and inspirational
faculties.
ERRATUM
In the February Journal, No. 542, Vol. XXX, p. 160, 3rd line up,
for Dv Geoffrey " Boumey ", read Dr Geoffrey Bourne.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal m 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 544.—Vol. XXX Apbil 1938
JOURNAL
OF thp:
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meetino- of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 2yih April, igjS, at 5-30 p.m.
WHEN
THE RESEARCH OFFICER
will speak on Recent Work carried out
by the Society
N.B.—A^o Tickets of Admission will he issued for this Meeting.
Members and A ssociates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
NEW MEMBERS
Kirby, H. T., 33 Claremont Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
Knight, A. H. J., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Severn, Mrs Elizabeth, 85 South Lodge, Circus Road, St John's
Wood, London, N.W. 8.
Westwood, Miss M., 68 Langbourne Mansions, Highgate, London,
N. 6.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 362nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 23 March 1938, at 3 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W.
H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Admkal the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr
Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was presented and
taken as read.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1938-1939 :
Dr William Brown, Mr Oliver Gatty, Sir Robert Gower, M.P., Mr
Gerald Heard, Professor Julian Huxley, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas, and Miss Nea Walker.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 154th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 30 March 1938, at 5.30 p.m.. The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena " was
read by Miss Isabel Newton, and a discussion followed. The paper
will be pubhshed, it is hoped, in Proceedings.
April 1938 Notices 195
MISS NEWTON'S RETIREMENT
On the occasion of her retirement, which took effect on the 25
March, the Council unanimously elected Miss Newton an Honorary
Member of the Society.
APPOINTMENT OF RESEARCH SECRETARY
The Council have appointed Miss V. Warren, B.Sc. to be Research
Secretary. Miss Warren took courses at Liverpool University in
psychology and chemistry, and has since then held posts entailing
practical experience in psychology and a knowledge of French and
German. She will work under the immediate supervision of the
Research Officer.
INTERVIEWS WITH OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY
Some of the most important work done by Miss Newton for many
years has been the interviewing of members who wished to discuss
psychical research matters, often of a personal nature. The result
has often been the reporting to the Society of interesting cases.
Mr Herbert will be glad to see members, as before, on Tuesdays
and Thursdays, preferably by appointment.
The Hon. Secretary will also be glad to arrange to see members
by appointment.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 23 February
1938, at 4 p.m.. The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the
Chair.
The following Members were present : Mrs A. H. Bell, Mr H. S.
Collins, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr J. W. Findlater, Mr G. W. Fisk, Mrs
Goldney, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Miss Jephson,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Mrs
Kenneth Richmond, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G.
Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, Mrs B. Varvill, Mrs J. R. Warburton and Mr A. Wolfers ;
also Mr Kenneth Richmond (Hon. Associate).
The Secretary read the Notice convening the Meeting.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
The Hon. Treasurer, in presenting the accounts for the year,
reported that the Society had a surplus of £41 for the year instead of
a deficit of £88 for the previous year. This was not, however, quite
as satisfactory as it appeared, as the amount spent on the pubhcation
of Proceedings was much below the average. With Mr Saltmarsh's
valuable assistance, the House and Finance Committee had made a
very thorough enquiry into the financial position of the Society,
from which it appeared that in a year when printing and other
expenses were normal the Society would either have to increase its
income by obtaining more Members, or let off part of the Society's
premises ; or they would have to be prepared to meet a small
deficit every year. But for the success in obtaining exemption from
Income Tax, they would have had a prospect of somewhat serious
deficits in the future.
Since the House and Finance Committee reported, the Society had
had a small windfall ; it was now also receiving income on a legacy
which up to now had paid nothing.
As members knew, an Appeal for a capital endowment had been
made aboiit eighteen months before, which had met with a very
disappointing response. Now that the Society was exempt from
Income Tax, it was possible for the Society to take advantage of the
well-known Seven Years Plan utilized by most authorities and other
bodies exempt from tax. He hoped that it might be possible to
increase the Society's income by a judicious use of this scheme.
Mr Salter moved the adoption of the Balance Sheet and the
Annual Report. This resolution was seconded by Sir Lawrence
Jones, and carried unanimously.
After a discussion on the Report, in which Dr Dingwall, Mr Her-
bert and Mrs Salter took part, appreciative references were made to
Miss Newton's long and distinguished services.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council, other than the six Members
who retired by rotation and sought re-election. The following six
Members were accordingly unanimously elected : Professor C. D.
Broad, Mr W. Whately Carington, Professor E. R. Dodds, Miss Ina
Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., and Dr Maurice B.
Wright.
Messrs Miall, Avery and Co. were re-elected Auditors for the
forthcoming year.
Apeil 1938 Case 197
CASE : A \^KIDICAL EECURRENT DREAM
The following letter was addressed to the Society
:
Dear Sir,—On the off chance that your Society may be interested,
I submit for your consideration the following account of a curious
experience that has befallen me. Some few years ago^ I was con-
stantly having a recurrent dream. In this dream, I went to my
mother's old desk and took from a spring drawer, which I knew of,
a sum of money which I counted, and then put back. Gradually
the amount increased, until on my last dream visit it amoimted to
sixty pounds. This dream money of mine was a source of amuse-
ment to my wife and sons, and to numerous friends whom I have
told about it. Recently^ my sister, whom I had not seen for some
time, came to visit us, and I repeated the story of my dream to her.
At the time, she made no comment, but the following day told
my wife and myself that she had passed a sleepless night, and felt
constrained to tell us that just before my mother died, she told my
sister that she had saved a sum of money to be given to me, which
was then in the Post Office. She signed an authorization for my
sister to get the money, and shortly after passed away. When my
sister drew this money from the Post Office, she found it was
exactly sixty pounds. As I was at that time in receipt of a good
income, my sister kept the matter to herself, and used the money to
help pay for a trip to Canada to see some relatives.
All those concerned are still ahve, and can vouch for the truth of
this story.—Yours sincerely, Ernest J. Habris.
The Research Officer wrote to Mr Harris asking for corroborative
statements from the persons concerned, and received the following
repUes :
28/2/38
" This is to certify that I have on several occasions heard my
husband recount his recurrent dream in which he took a sum of
money from his mother's desk. On the last occasion the amount
had reached sixty pounds.
I was present when the dream was told to his sister, and can
confirm that she admitted drawing the sum of sixty pounds from the
Post Office after her mother's death, and using it for a journey
abroad.
(Signed) Mary Helen Harris."
^Mr Harris states that the dream first occurred in 1925 or 1926.
2 Oct. 11, 1937.
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apeil 1938
" I have on several occasions been told by my father of a recurrent
dream in which he found the sum of sixty pounds in his mother's desk.
Subsequently to these occasions, the dream was related to my
father's sister, who stated that the sum of sixty pounds had been
in fact saved up by her mother in the desk described by my father,
and that the money should, by her mother's wish, have been handed
over to my father.
(Signed) C. Stuart Harris."
28th February, 1938.
Dear Ernest,-—In reply to your request, I gladly write to say
that our Mother, Sarah Harris, left £60 in the Post Office which I
claimed in the summer of 1907—I am not sure of the month. I
beheve it was paid through the North End Portsmouth Sub-Oflfice.
If there is anything else I can verify, let me know later on.
(Signed) Ada Sarah Bishop, nee Harris.
CASE : A DREAM SUGGESTING PEECOGNITION
Readers of Mrs Lyttelton's recent book, " Some Cases of Pre-
diction ", may remember that in the fourth section, containing the
most cogent evidence, there was an account of two dreams by Mrs
Fyson Calder (Case 6, p. 106). Each dream was of a house and its
neighbourhood, which in neither instance appears to have been seen
by Mrs Calder before the dream occurred. Both dreams were put on
record before verification : and in each instance Mr and Mrs Calder
were subsequently recommended to, and moved into, a house
strikingly similar to the one dreamed of. In one instance a further
detail, a barrel used as a kennel for a black retriever, occurred in the
dream, and did not occur in reality until new tenants made this
arrangement for their black retriever on coming to the house a year
after Mr and Mrs Calder had taken it.
Mrs Calder has recently experienced another dream of a similar
character, and with a similar outcome. She wrote to Mrs Lyttelton
as follows :
March 4th, 1938.
Dear Madam,—I was much interested in your book, for which
please accept my thanks. It may perhaps interest you to know that
another instance of the same kind of precognition has now occurred
to ine.
Some weeks ago I had a very vivid dream in which I was moving
into a very large old-fashioned house, and was busy hanging curtains
April 1938 Case 199
at some extremely Mgh windows. I then wandered out througli
wild and neglected gardens and found a kind of courtyard bounded
by walls on three sides, all rather neglected and overgrown, and quite
unhke any place I knew.
I described all this to my husband next morning, and wondered
if it meant another move for us. Strangely enough, a few days
later he was offered a new post at Crewe in Cheshire. I naturally
supposed that the old house I had seen in my dream would prove
to be there—as on previous occasions. As it happened, however, a
parent visiting my husband's school a few days later mentioned
that she was thinking of letting half her very large old house, six
miles away from here—hidden away in a park, which we had never
visited. Eemembering my dream, my husband suggested that we
should go and see it—and of course it was exactly as I had described,
with the courtyard easily recognisable ;
very high windows, etc.
Yet, at that time, we supposed that we should be going to Crewe,
and it is the more remarkable that circumstances have now arisen
causing my husband to refuse the move to Crewe and remain here.
We felt so drawn to the old house seen in my dream that we have
taken half of it and expect to move into it very shortly—after having
lived for the last seven years in our present house (also seen in a
dream before coming to it—as in your book).
I cannot pretend to account for this strange precognition of the
houses in which I seem to have to live, but I am quite content to be
" guided " in this way, and feel a strange sense of security as a result.
We were most interested in comparing the experiences of others
with our own, in your book.
Yours very truly,
A. M. Fyson Calder.
I have pleasure in confirming all the statements made by Mrs R. B.
Calder in this letter.—R. B. Calder, 4/3/38.
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—Several experiments recently made, both in this country
and in America, have been referred to as " repetitions " of those
carried out by Dr Rhine : but I should like to point out that the
word " repetition " in this connexion is a misnomer, which is in-
clined to lead to false expectations. No experiment can properly
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
be called a repetition of another unless all the relevant conditions of
the original have been reproduced in it ; and there is no evidence
that this has ever been done where experiments in extra-sensory
perception are concerned. Indeed, in the present state of our
ignorance, it is diificult to see how any experiment in E.S.P. can
be " repeated ". Many imponderables, outside the physical con-
ditions obtaining in the laboratory, are of crucial importance for
experiments in psychology and still more for experiments in psychi-
cal research. For instance, there is the unique personal influence
exerted by the experimenter on his subjects. There is the factor of
the group-moral of a working team—an intangible thing, it may be
said, yet an intangible which makes all the difference between the
defeat and victory of an army. There is the spirit pervading a
place—a university or perhaps a country : and there is the spirit
of an age. The latter produced dramatic poets in the 16th century
and surreahsts in the 20th, and by no possibiUty could the order
of these products have been reversed. But they were produced
by an " intangible ".
How can factors such as these be dismissed as irrelevant when we
are engaged in the deUcate task of trying to raise subUminal know-
ledge through the motor-mechanisms of the body, the route being
evidently hedged about by inhibitions, which are linked up with
unknown systems of associations ? They are obviously main factors :
they are as much essential conditions for experiments in E.S.P. as
temperature, mass or velocity are for experiments in physics. If
they are not reproduced when experiments in E.S.P. are "repeated",
then the experiments which are being called " repetitions " are
being done under circumstances which are merely a selection of the
essential conditions, some of these essential conditions being
arbitrarily ignored. In physics, if experiments were " repeated
"
in this way, it would be quite easy to demonstrate that petrol-
engines will not work ; that compasses do not point to the North ;
that the law of the pendulum is untrue and so on. I do not suggest
that such experiments as are now being carried on are unimportant,
but only that it is inaccurate to call them " repetitions ". It is a
false nomenclature which causes self-confusion and leads to un-
justifiable expectations.—Yours etc.,
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Sir,—I hold no brief for Dr Khine and his work ;
indeed, though I
have great admiration for him and for what he has done, I am far
from endorsing the recent commercialisation of his investigations.
Even here, however, I can understand his motives. The only reason I
April 1938 Correspondence 201
pursue this discussion is because the comments recently printed in
the Journal by Dr Dingwall and others may lead some students to
discredit Dr Rhine's results on inadequate grounds.
The criticisms to which I refer are based on the fact that the cards
issued by the Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke University,
through a publisher, are inadequate for experiments in which the
subject sees or touches the cards. It is quite true that this is so, but
it is equally true of all cards and of all objects used under the same
conditions—a point which must not be forgotten. In short, this
criticism is only a roundabout way of saying that no telepathic or
clairvoyant experiment is fully vahd if the subject sees or touches the
card or other object. This is hardly a starthng addition to our
knowledge of the subject ; it is not a fact of which Dr Rhine is
unaware ; and it is a fact which is brought out even in the very
elementary commercial pubhcation which accompanies the Duke
E.S.P. cards. Siirely it would be fairer to make these facts clear
when criticising Dr Rhine in such tendencious terms as are used by
Dr Dingwall?
Yours, etc.,
Theodore Besterjvian.
Sir,—I, for one, would Uke to ask pardon, on behalf of those of
us who happen to value tolerance and common courtesy, of our
friends and co-investigators in America for the abusive and—as I
judge them—largely unfounded and scarcely justifiable expressions
of Dr Dingwall. And I do so with the less hesitation since my
own observations upon telepathic and clairvoyant phenomena, now
amounting to some hundreds of carefully observed spontaneous and
experimental examples, collected during twenty years or more,
generally confirm the main contentions of Dr Rhine and his col-
leagues, working on more statistical lines. Indeed, no amount of
declamation of the " sour grapes" variety can possibly shake the
personal observations and convictions of those who have been into
these questions sufi&ciently impartially and comprehensively.
My set of cards is a plain (white) backed set, made by the Atlantic
Playing Card Co., N.Y. Personally, I should prefer coloured or
finely patterned backs, so far as avoidance of identification marks is
concerned ; and a very large number of packs (still better, new
packs for each trial) should be used, if the same subjects are to be
tested many times over, and any marked cards rejected at once.
In any case, there is no sense or justice in suspecting, as does Dr
Dingwall, that Rhine's psychology students and friends were all
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apeil 1938
potential criminals and card-sharpers. The regrettable thing is that
some enquirers seem to have caught the spirit of fraud and dupUcity
from the so-called mediums that it has been their misfortune to
investigate—where, indeed, their sole aim has not been criminal,
investigation rather than psychical research. And by that I do not
mean that one should not be always as guarded and critical as is
humanly and scientifically possible ; for there is, surely, no need
to dwell upon that fundamental point of method after all these years
of pain and disillusionment.
I am, yours very truly,
J. Cecil Maby.
[It seems that no useful purpose will be served, at this stage, by
further correspondence on the E.S.P. experiments. Further investi-
gation of facts is required, and the Society is having special cards
printed for detailed research into points that have come under dis-
cussion.
—
Ed.]
The Subconscious Mind
Sir,—It seems an over-simphfication of the real issue when your
review states that I have taken up "an inimical attitude " towards
the belief in a " subconscious mind " and the use of that very obscure
term. With your kind permission I will try to explain in as few
words as possible a reason for my somewhat unorthodox behaviour.
It is to my mind a pity that so many and influential psychical
research workers still remain attached to what that expression is
supposed to signify, and continue to stick to a hypothesis wliich
already is getting out of date and soon will be registered as a thing
of the past.
In the early period of the Society's work great emphasis was laid
on elforts purporting to reconcile and harmonize psychical research
with the actual views and methods of the older sciences at the time.
Biologists in those days, following the lead of physical science, in
which field matter was shown to be an association of atoms, built
their work on parallel lines, and the "Association theory" was
estabhshed. The functioning of life in a biological sense was
explained as an interaction of hving cells and their environments.
Psycho-physiologists followed them, and mind became a resultant
of the parts which constituted the human being.
When psychical research went into action the modern psycho-
logical schools were engaged in delving into the Unconscious part of
the mind, an agency previously dealt with by Kant, v. Hartmann
and Schopenhauer, and the possibility of a parcelhng up of the
April 1938 Correspondence 203
psyche, dividing it into separate "layers of the mind", was tested.
The human soul began to look like a chest of drawers stuffed with
heterogeneous but very active material. Labels were given to these
layers and the " subconscious " was introduced among other hypo-
thetical agencies which replaced the imity of the soul, an attitude
which never was generally approved of by philosophers. It is
interesting to note that Freud did not approve of the use of the
term. A change of view has set in, however, since that earher period.
"Hohsm"—to borrow an expression of General Smuts and use it
in a wide sense—has been recognized as presenting supplementary
or better explanations for the functioning of life. A unifying and
controlHng element appears, directing the scattered factors, and
the Gestalt theory contests the evidence of the associationists.
Among psychologists, the therapeutic workers seem to be the first
to vindicate the unity of the soul in its normal state and men like
Groddeck and Jung bear out the necessity of a change of front. The
soul which had been spht up is visuahzed as a distinct unit, a whole,
parts of which are illuminated by beams of consciousness which
cannot, however, reach beyond the " movable threshold of sensi-
bility " which prevents a grasp of the indivisible whole extending
on the other side of the threshold. We have rightly named this
extension a region of the Unconscious, because temporarily we are
shut out from complete knowledge about it. But " the self is not a
duaHty, it is a unity ", as Dr Geley so strongly emphasized.
With an acceptance of the soul's unity the many layers of mind
vanish, and new vistas open up indicating the spiritual nature of
existence, and the everlastingness of the individual soul, its pre-
existence and permanence.
It seems to me that if psychical research workers disentangle
themselves from the obscure network of separate agencies of the
mind, and, in step with the progress of science, embrace the factual
unity of the soul, the road to progress would come in sight and the
forces of rehgion rally to their neighboiirhood.
This is, briefly stated, one of the reasons why I find it advisable
not to hnger any longer by the " subconscious mind " or allow it to
distract us from the way of obvious advance.—Yours sincerely,
Erik Palmstierna.
[It is possible to regard the mind as a whole, while still observing
that its functions can work in groupings more or less independent
of the whole, as in automatism. The acceptance of all unconscious
action as springing from the unity of the soul would be far from
the views held by any school of psychology.
—
Ed.]
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
OBITUAEY
Dr F. C. S. Schiller, F.B.A., whose death at Los Angeles last
August was recorded in the Journal for October, was elected an
Associate of the Society in 1884 and was transferred to Membership
in 1897. He was co-opted a member of Council in 1901 and became
an elected member in 1909. He was President of the Society for
the year 1914, and was a Vice-President from 1920. He resigned
from the CoutlclI on account of ill-health in 1935.
His chief contributions to the Proceedings are " On Some Philo-
sophical Assumptions m the Investigation of the Problem of a Future
Life " {Proceedings, Vol. xv) ;
" The Answers to the American
Branch's Questionnaire regarding Human Sentiment as to a Future
Life "t {Proceedings, Vol. xviii) ; and his Presidential Address
{Proceedings, Vol. xxvii). In addition, he contributed numerous
reviews to the Proceedings (Vols, vii, xv, xvii, xxv, xxvii, xxix,
XXX, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xxxiv, xxxvi), and to the Journal, to which
he was also a frequent contributor of cases.
Dr SchiUer's removal in 1929 to a Professorship of Philosophy in
the University of Southern California, and latterly his advancing
age, had gradually withdrawn from the Society the co-operation of
an acute and a critically speculative mind. Like another past
President whose thought has helped to illuminate the path of
psychical research. Professor WilUam James, Dr Schiller was a
pragmatist ; and whatever the value of pragmatism as a guiding
principle in philosophy, it is an attitude of real value in the theory
and practice of a science that must continually apply the test of
working significance to its explorations.
The same quaUties that made him an enUvening teacher of
philosophy, in his Oxford days, gave freshness and felicity to his
touch upon the problems of psychical research, and he is to be
counted among those who have infused into our work the philo-
sopher's habit of giving obvious facts their proper appHcation.
In our present gropings towards efi&cient statistical treatment of
evidence, it is worth while to remember Schiller's accurate dis-
crimination between this type of evidence and the historical type
("a historical event occurs once "), and the balance which he
maintained between their respective values. At the same time, he
found value for research in that exercise of the trained imagination
("to prepare the way for science by ingenious guessing ") which
lies at the opposite pole from easy and uninteUigent conjecture ;
and brought into his own imaginative ventures a touch of critical
humour that was a refreshing characteristic of all his work.
Apbil 1938 Obituary 205
Books and articles by Dr Schiller included in the S.P.R. Library :
Books
Humanism : Philosophical Essays, 1903.
Studies in Humanism : Second edition, 1912.
Logic for Use. 1929.
Problems of Belief, n.d.
Eiddles of the Sphinx, 1891.
Articles
Do Men Desire Immortahty? (The Fortnightly Review, 1901).
Psychology and Logic, in Psycliology and the Sciences.
Psychology and Psychical Research. {The Monist, Chicago, 1930).
Sir Oliver Lodge's Address on Continuity {Science Progress, 1914).
Some Logical Aspects of Psychical Research in The Case for and
against Psychical Belief.
The Progress of Psychical Research {The Fortnightly Review, 1905).
The Truth about Psychical Research {The Nineteenth Century, 1927).
Why Humanism? in Contemporary British Philosophy. (First
Series.)
We record with regret the death on March 6, of Sir Reginald
Fleming Johnston, K.C.M.G., C.B.E., who joined the Society as an
Associate in 1910, became a Member in 1930.
REVIEW
Man's Latent Powers. Phoebe Payne. Faber. 7s. 6d.
Those who habitually experience visual and other sensory impres-
sions of things outside the normal range of perception do not often
seem able to give a coherent account of the extended faculties that
they believe themselves to possess. This book is worth attention as
an imusually balanced and thoughtful study of these apparently
paranormal faculties, by an experient who makes practical use of
them. Miss Payne has a gift for intuitional diagnosis, works in the
service of the medical profession, and obtains results that seem not
to be due to ordinary observation and inference. Whether or not we
prefer the conservative view that her mind is so constituted as to
externalize its impressions in unreal sensory forms, the fact and the
usefulness of the impressions remain. And the human " aura " in
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
particular, if it is a visual hallucination, is a hallucination that takes
a curiously constant form for the people who report its existence.
Experiments might be devised to test the uniformity of these
impressions, as they are reported by different sensitives with the
same series of subjects. But the actuality of auras is not a primary
consideration in Miss Payne's study, and can be taken, if we so wish,
as representational imagery which makes it easier to think and talk
about the types of psychical experience that she discusses. She is
particularly interesting in a distinction between " negative " and
" positive psychism " which should be of considerable value to people
who are experimenting upon apparent mediumistic faculty in their
own persons. The " negative " type belongs to a distinctive per-
sonal make-up, and involves a liability to delusive phenomena, ab-
surd and unsatisfactory purporting communicators, and so on.
Proper control of the function can bring it into closer and closer
approximation to the less common " positive " type, in which a
faculty of discrimination, not to say an active apprehending of such
experience as seems to have significance and value, produces not only
better results but a better effect upon the personality.
" Undoubtedly ", Miss Payne writes, " there is a certain vitality,
stimulus, and subtle satisfaction, whether born of reality or fantasy,
resulting from psychic experience, and there are as yet few sensitives
sufficiently impersonal to scrutinize deliberately the whole field of
their experiences and dissect it without bias. If they could appre-
ciate the fact that the world needs their real contribution, it would be
easier for them to strip their experience of its unreality and estimate
it at its true worth."
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metapsychique, Nov.—Dec, 1937. The messages of the sub-
conscious and their part in metapsychics, by Dr J. C. Roux.
An interesting article, in which Dr Roux deals with the different
ways in which messages out of the unconscious mind come to the
surface of the conscious. He gives particulars of cases of clair-
voyance, which he considers as the " intellectual " method of emer-
gence of information from the unconscious, of dreams, and of
various kinds of automatism. He stresses the necessity of endea-
vouring to arrive at a method by which the unconscious may be
penetrated at will.
April 1938 Notes on Periodicals 207
Chronique. There is a note on the foundation in Kome of an
Italian Society of Psychical Research on strictly scientific lines
;
one on cases of awakening at an hour fixed in the inind before going
to sleep ; one on a curious case of a prophetic dream concerning the
horses running in a race (the first four were given in order, with
distances between and odds at starting) ; a note on levitations (a
yogi put a girl into trance in the course of which it is alleged she
was raised four feet above the earth on which she lay) ; and finally
on a very strange coincidence : a loaf of bread sent by post and
arriving just when its recipient was in need of bread and unable to
get any as the shops were shut and the neighbours unable to supply
her.
The issue for Jan.—Feb., 1938 contains, in Chronique, a report
of Lord Rayleigh's Presidential Address to the S.P.R., in extracts
interspersed by summary, giving chief attention to the President's
remarks on the mediumship of Rudi Schneider. There is a note on
the foundation of a Psychical Research Institute in the Argentine ;
and a note on the death of Mr Stanley de Brath.
Tydschrift voor Parapsychologie, March, 1938.
Remarkable Dreams. Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff discusses the causation
of dreams, and the effect on the sleeper of external stimuli, with
examples. A discussion of daydreams foUows. A case is given
where between sleep and waking a whole panorama of impressions
was unrolled. This is followed by remarks on time in dreams.
A Psychoscopic Experiment in Dialogue Form,. Dr H. G. Hamans
gives interesting details of an experiment that he carried out with
a psychometrist, followed by a good case of spontaneous clairvoyance
by the same sensitive.
Social Psychology and Metaphysics. Dr Tenhaeff argues the
proposition that " passive being is regression ". In his previous
articles he has maintained that the commoner forms of mediumship
constituted a phenomenon betokening regression. He gives partic-
ulars of a case in which a seaman, on an uneventful voyage and
when all was calm, was suddenly seized with the idea that a ship-
mate was " possessed ", and carried the rest of the crew with him.
They killed the " possessed " man.
Dr Tenhaeff goes on to discuss the question of mass suggestion
in politics, rehgion etc., and the conditions conducing to its devel-
opment. He gives an interesting case in which the inhabitants of a
town " saw ", day after day at a certain hour, an acrobat displaying
his agihty on their cathedral tower. There was no acrobat.
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1938
Psykisk Tidsskrift, Oct.—Dec, 1937. The twentieth anniversary
of the Norwegian Psychical Research Society.
The Society was founded in the latter part of 1917, and its
twentieth anniversary was celebrated on Nov. 11, 1937. About
forty persons were present and were received by Fru Otto and
Architect Frost. Dr Wereide, university lecturer, gave a brief
sketch of the Society's activities since its foundation, which was
rendered possible by an anonymous gift of 40,000 kronen. The
donor originally designated this for the study of spirituaUsm, but
later consented to the denomination " psychical research ". Among
the mediums investigated since the foundation have been : Susanna
Harris, Emar Nielsen, Louisa Ignath (" Nona "), Mrs Brittain,
Lotte Plaat (of Bergen), Mr Craddock, Guzik, ]\Irs Robern Johnson,
Kordon Veri, VaUantin and Mrs Eileen Garret. At first the Society
collaborated in the Swedish Society's journal " Psyche " but in
1921 it began to issue its own—•" Psykisk Tidsskrift ".
H.E.K.
A former member of the Society has for disposal Vols. VIII to
XXIV, complete, of Proceedings, (1892-1910, inclusive), bound in
half-leather (red morocco) ; also Parts 62 to 121 unbound, with the
exception of Parts 69, 70 and 71.
He has many copies of the Journal from 1893 to 1924, including
the complete series 1895-1904, inclusive. Members or Associates
wishing to buy these volumes or copies at second-hand rates can be
put in touch with the vendor by writing to The Assistant Secretary
at the S.P.R. rooms.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only." The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 545.— Vol. XXX May 1938
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 25th May, igjS, at 5-30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" The Leonard Communicator-Personality
"
BY
Mr KENNETH RICHMOND
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting,
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names ai
the door. Tea will be servedfrom 4.45 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
NEW MEMBER
Rogers, Miss C, Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 363rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 April 1938, at 4.15 p.m., Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also present
:
Mr Whately Carington, Lord Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also
Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
One new Member was elected. Her name and address are given
above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 155th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 27 April 1938, at 5.30 p.m.. The Lord
Charles Hope in the Chair.
The Research Officer, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, spoke on recent work
carried out by the Society. A part of his report is summarised below,
comprising an account of the methods devised in testing two dif-
ferent cases of ostensible paranormal faculty. A summary of
another section of his report, deahng with the examination of
specimen Zener cards of two patterns that have been used at Duke
University, is printed on p. 215 of this issue, under the heading
" Experiment in Extra-sensory Perception ".
FROM THE RESEARCH OFFICER'S REPORT
Individual Tests op Paranormal Faculty
i
Mr Herbert described a test of seeming prediction carried
j
out by the Society. The subject. Miss X, approached the Society ]
in June of last year, stating that she was convinced that she pos-
sessed the faculty of predicting the winners of horse races by means
of a symboHc method. Before the race she would take careful note
May 1938 Report 211
of any unusual images which suggested themselves to her mind,
and would then examine the lists of runners in the race, where she
was generally able to find certain names which corresponded with
the symbols. She suggested that (1) these selected horses proved
to be winners more often than if they had been chosen by chance,
and (2) that the fact that she was usually able to find names cor-
responding with her symbols (obtained before consulting the lists)
was in itself significant of paranormal faculty. She wished these
suggestions to be scientifically tested, and freely placed herself at
the disposal of the Society.
The difliculty of testing claims in connection with contests involv-
ing skill and ability lies in the fact that the chances of any given
result cannot be predicted by mathematical methods—if there are
ten competitors in a race, the chances of any given one winning are
obviously not 1/10, some being much more likely to win than others.
But as regards horse racing, there are published in connection with
each race a series of probabilities, the starting price odds, which are
obviously related to an expert estimation of the actual probabilities.
One assumes that the Ring assess the probabilities to the best of
their abihty, and then offer odds which are less than these estima-
tions by an amount representing the margin of profit which they
allow themselves. As regards horses which have a very small chance
of winning, the Ring never offer enormous odds, although some
horses must be almost infinitely unhkely to win ; and as regards
horses which have a very great chance of winning, the odds originally
offered are often reduced or shortened if the public is found to be
betting extensively on these horses. From tlois it would seem
probable that as regards horses which are either very likely to win
or very unlikely to win—hot favourites and rank outsiders—the
starting price odds represent a smaller proportion of the actual
expectations of winning (as assessed by the Ring) than do the start-
ing price odds for the other horses.
In order to compare the starting price odds with the actual
results, the following experiment was carried out. Six days' racing
was selected at random (1937, November 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9) ; in
each race two horses were selected from the lists of probable starters
in The Times. These were selected by pure chance, the horses being
numbered and two of the numbers being drawn from a bag. It was
assumed that each horse so selected had been backed with one imit
to win and one unit to obtain a place. It was assumed that in the
event of a win, the full starting price odds, as quoted in The Times,
would be paid, and that in respect of the horse gaining a place {i.e.
finishing 1 st, 2nd, 3rd or 4th) one quarter of the starting price odds
P 2
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
would be paid.^ The wins and losses were then calculated in respect
of all the horses which actually ran. Horses which did not run
were completely left out of account. In fact, 54 of the horses
selected actually ran, thus making 108 hypothetical betting trans-
actions. The result showed a net loss of 8J units. It was calculated
that if the starting price odds actually offered had been increased
by 10 per cent., the final result would have shown a zero loss. This
suggests that the starting price odds do in fact represent very fairly
the actual chances of the horses.
Miss X's predictions were received on forms specially prepared
for the experiment. On these she wrote the name of the meeting
and the names of the horses selected by her for the various races.
When we received a form the postmark on the envelope was ex-
amined, and if it showed a time later than the time of the race, the
predictions were ignored. If the postmark was in order, the wins
and losses were calculated as in the previous experiment. Forms
were received between 1937, October 27, and 1938, January 5.
These contained a total of 154 runners, a sample nearly three times
as extensive as that used in the chance experiment. The result
showed a net loss of 114 units. If odds 10 per cent, greater than the
starting price odds were assumed (which in the chance experiment
sufficed to reduce the loss to zero) a loss of 99 units was still shown.
In order to reduce the loss to zero, odds of 50 per cent, greater than
the starting price odds would have to be assumed.
This looks at first sight as if Miss X possessed a negative pre-
cognitive faculty, i.e. that she selected losers instead of winners
;
but an examination of her actual selections shows that she had a
distinct preference for hot favourites and rank outsiders as opposed
to the more moderate horses, so that she would receive more than a
chance selection of unusually poor odds—if the theory of the assess-
ment of the odds above stated is valid.
In order to test the suggestion that the symbols recorded by Miss
X appHed to actual names in the lists of probable starters more
often than would be expected by pure chance, a third experiment
was performed. Her symbols for fifteen days' racing were selected at
random, together with the names of the horses selected by her. The
same symbols were then compared with the names of runners in the
races on the same days of the week a fortnight later. It was found
that equally good correspondences could be found. It was con-
cluded that the names of runners are so numerous and so varied
1 This is the usual arrangement, but is departed from in practice if the
field is very small ; it is nearly enough true for the purposes of the experi-
ment.
May 1938 Report 213
that it is likely that any fairly general symbol would apply to any
day's racing.
There seems therefore to be no reason to suppose that Miss X
possesses either a faculty for selecting winners or a faculty for pro-
ducing symbols which apply to the names of runners more aptly
than is explainable by chance.
In concluding his account of this investigation, Mr Herbert men-
tioned a curious incident which was recorded during the course of the
work. Miss X sent a postcard to the Society, postmarked, " 1937,
December 17, 10.45 a.m.", on which was written, " Symbol for to-
day, December 17th (seen at 12.15 p.m. last night), A dead horse (pre-
sumably), covered over, but lying stiff, with legs outstretched." At
the Windsor Meeting on December 17 a horse called Terse was
seriously injured. Describing this the Daily Mail Eacing Corre-
spondent writes as follows {Daily Mail, 1937, December 18) :
" Terse, however, moved away on three legs, and was found to be
so badly injured that he had to be destroyed." Though such
accidents sometimes happen, they are not by any means common.
No other reference to a dead horse could be found in any of Miss X's
records of symbols. It must be remembered, however, that this
symbol was given in the ordinary way, as a symbol to suggest the
names of winners, and not as a prediction of an accident. It was
ascertained that no accident had happened during the week previous
to the writing of the post card, such as might have suggested this
symbol to the subject.
Mr Herbert showed shdes of graphs giving the results of the
chance experiment, and the actual test with Miss X.
Mr Herbert then described a series of experiments with a subject,
Mrs S., on divination with a pendulum—mostly in connection with
map reading. Mrs S. came to the Eooms during January of this
year saying that she possessed a faculty of determining the sex of
the writer of a letter by holding a pendulum over an envelope con-
taining the letter. If the writer was a man, the pendulum swung
with a circular clockwise motion, if a woman, the rotation was anti-
clockwise. A side-to-side swing indicated that the writer had died,
or was connected with death or morbid matters. Mrs S. very kindly
consented to some experiments being tried.
For the first test, 20 letters were placed in similar envelopes, 10
from men and 10 from women, half of each being still alive and half
being dead. The envelopes were weU shuffled to prevent telepathic
or other clues being communicated to the subject by the experi-
menter. Mrs S. obtained 19 successes and 13 failures. For the next
experiment 20 envelopes were used, all from living persons. The
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
letters were taken at random from the correspondence files, and
consisted of 13 from men and 7 from women. With 2, no reaction
was obtained ; with the rest, Mrs S. scored 9 successes and 9 failures.
It was suggested that Mrs S. might obtain results in distinguishing
between land and water areas on a map, and a rough test was made
with pages from an atlas covered over with sheets of blank paper.
This was sufficiently promising to warrant the carrying out of more
formal experiments. Accordingly three maps were traced from an
atlas on to thick cartridge paper. The drawing was covered with a
sheet of blotting paper, over which was placed a blanlc sheet of
cartridge paper. These were fixed together with paper chps all
round. The drawing could not be seen through the paper unless
the whole was held up to a strong hght. Pressing the cover sheets
well down on to the drawing (which will often reveal the contents
of an envelope) gave no clues as to the arrangement of the map.
The test was carried out by Miss Newton, who did not know what
the maps represented. Mrs S. held the pendulum (which consisted
of a gold ring on a cotton thread) over the blank cover sheet, a
circular swing indicating land, and a side to side swing indicating
water. The cover sheet was marked in pencil by Miss Newton in
accordance with the movements of the pendulum. The results
seemed distinctly suggestive of some faculty of divination.
At the next experiment, larger sheets were used (at the subject's
request), three maps being prepared. Tests were carried out by
Mr Herbert and Mr Richmond. Here again, there seemed to be
some indication of a paranormal faculty. After the experiment was
finished, the three maps and the three marked cover sheets were
mixed together and were submitted to Miss Newton, who was asked
to say which cover sheet applied to which map. The orientation of
each sheet was indicated, but otherwise no extraneous clues, so far
as is known, were supplied. Miss Newton correctly indicated which
sheet applied to which map. Two other people were asked to do
the same thing, and were equally successful. A fourth person
placed one cover sheet correctly, but transposed the other two.
An experiment was then tried with fifty small sections of maps,
each representing land or water only, enclosed in separate envelopes.
The subject made no significant score with these. An examination
of the guesses in relation to the actual disposition of the envelopes
showed that she has a distinct preference for guessing alternately
land and water.
As Mrs S. seemed to be disheartened by the result of the envelope
experiment, no more tests of this sort were attempted. Further
experiments were made with large maps, with the object of getting
]\Iay 1938 Report 215
the subject to accept a fictitious map instead of a map of an actual
district. Three maps were prepared in which the water areas were
coloured blue and the land areas brown. Two of the maps repre-
sented actual districts, and the third was a fictitious map. Miss
Newton superintended the test, which again seemed to show
evidence of paranormal faculty. The fictitious map was the most
successful of the three.
The next stage was to rule the cover sheet for each map in squares,
and to suggest to the subject that it would make the scoring easier
if she did her divination square by square. The two real maps of
the last experiment were used again, with new cover sheets, squared
as described, and for the third, a fictitious map was prepared in
which the boundaries of the land and water areas followed closely
the fines of the squares on the cover sheet. Each square was thus
almost all land or almost all water. The subject appeared to have
no difiiculty in keeping to the squares. Although the fictitious map
(which was the first of the three to be attempted) did seem to show
some correlation with the marks on its cover sheet, when counted
up, square by square, no significant result could be foimd. It would
appear that the faculty, if real, was not precise enough for such a
test to succeed ; i.e. that a feature of the map might produce a
corresponding mark on the cover sheet, but sufiiciently displaced
to be outside the correct square. Further experiments were devised
and prepared, but, unfortunately, the subject went abroad before
the test could be carried out. It is hoped to continue the experi-
ments when she returns.
EXPERIMENT IN EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
I. A Note on Types of Zenee Cards used at Duke University
As is well known, the cards used for the " E.S.P." experiments
carried out by Professor J. B. Rhine and other American investi-
gators are of the type known as Zener cards. Instead of the usual
playing-card symbols, each card bears one of five special symbols :
cross, rectangle (or square), star, wavy lines, and circle.
In considering these cards, and their suitabiHty for serious experi-
mental work, we can recognise two main types of card : (1) those in
which the Zener symbols were added to standard playing card blanks
by means of stencils or rubber stamps ; and (2) those which were
specially made for the work by a manufacturer of cards.
As regards the first class, two specimen packs, each consisting of
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
25 cards (5 of each symbol), were sent to Professor Thouless hj
Professor Khine some two years ago, as samples of the actual cards
used in the tests at Duke University. Professor Thouless examined
these cards very carefully, and came to the conclusion that while
one pack was unobjectionable, the other suffered from the serious
defect that in many of the cards the symbol on the face could be
read from the back. Professor Thouless was kind enough to send
me this pack for examination, the result of which is as follows. The
blank stocks used are of excellent quahty. The backs have a plain
green panel surrounded by a gilt Une ; this again is surrounded by
a narrow white border extending to the edge of the card. The Zener
symbols are added to the blank face of the cards, presumably by
means of a rubber stamp.
At a first glance the backs seem to be quite unmarked, but if
examined by a good hght reflected from the back of the cards, the
symbols can in many specimens be read with ease. Thus with the
light from a window (not direct sunhght), 9 cards could be identified
with certainty. With a 60-watt electric lamp hanging from the
ceihng 64 inches above the table on which the cards were placed,
14 cards could be identified. And with a powerful electric lamp
(1000-watt projection lamp) 20 cards could be identified.
The explanation seems to be that the instrument used for adding
the symbol to the blank card has the effect of shghtly embossing the
card. The symbol thus appears on the back in shght relief, and
when hght is reflected from the back of the card this raised image
shows up against the flat background. With some of the cards, the
effect is so pronounced that it can clearly be seen in a photograph
taken in a strong hght which is reflected from the back of the
card.
As regards the second class of card, i.e. those with the symbols
added by the card manufacturer, presumably by a Hthographic
process, two different packs were produced, and were placed on
the market in the U.S.A. They were put up in unsealed packets of
25 (5 of each symbol), on which was printed " E.S.P. Cards for
testing Extra Sensory Perception, developed in Parapsychological
Laboratory at Duke University, patent apphed for by J. B. Rhine ".
One pack had the symbols in black, and the other the symbols in
differentiating colours. These cards are illustrated and referred to
in the Journal of Parapsychology for September, 1937. A critical
examination of these cards shows that they fall very far short of the
high standard which might reasonably have been expected.
Two packs, one with plain symbols and the other with coloured
symbols, were carefully examined to see if they shared with the pack
May 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 217
of stamped cards sent to Professor Thouless the defect of legibility
from the back. With artificial hght, ordy a few of the plain cards
and none of the coloured cards could be read ; but when held at a
critical angle so as to reflect the hght from the sky, a position could
be found in which nearly every card coidd be read with ease from
the back. An expert on card manufacture has told me that this
is due to the ink from the hthographic image on the face of the
card drawing in the surface of the back so that a shallow depression
is formed. He said that this could always be expected in cards with
heavily inked hthographic symbols and a smooth " plate finished
"
back.
The design on the back of these cards (blue and white for the
plain packs, and brown and white for the coloured packs, but
otherwise the same in both) shows in the centre a circular picture
of a Gothic tower, across which is written " E.S.P.". This is sur-
rounded by a circular inscription, " Developed in Parapsychological
Laboratory at Duke University ". Round this is a comphcated
pattern of curved white hues. Because of the picture and lettering,
the cards have a definite " right way up " ; i.e. in a mixed pack
some of the towers will be the right way up, and others upside down.
This seems unnecessary, as possibly disturbing to a sensitive sub-
ject, and also as making it easier in some tests for an unscrupulous
subject to cheat by arranging the cards beforehand (ordinary shuffl-
ing would not alter the relative orientation of the cards). The fact
that the picture and inscription are surrormded by a dark ring,
which could suggest the circle, might also disturb a sensitive subject
and influence his guesses. There seems to be no reason for the pic-
ture and inscription (except that of advertisement), and a less sug-
gestive design would surely have been preferable.
A further serious criticism of the cards seems to he in the
pattern of white lines which covers the backs except for the area
occupied by the picture and inscription. This extends right up to
the edges, and owing to inevitable shght variations in the amount
of pattern shced olf by the cutting machine in trimming the cards
to size, the pattern, as cut olf at the edge, varies noticeably in dif-
ferent specimens. In some cards this variation is very marked
indeed. A large proportion are, ab initio, what a bridge player
would call marked cards. Thus, in the pack with uncoloured sym-
bols, four of the cards (out of 25) when placed with the picture on the
back upside down, showed a conspicuous white marking in the left-
hand top corner which was absent from the other 21. In all four the
symbol happened to be a circle. As the pattern extends right to the
edges of the cards [i.e. they have not the narrow white margin which
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
is usual in English packs) these differences are clearly visible when
the sides of the closed pack are inspected. The edges have a vary-
ing distribution of white and colour. Thus the four " circles " men-
tioned above can be clearly identified by looking at the edges of the
closed pack of 25.
The possible effect of the use of such cards on the results of experi-
ments naturally varies greatly according to the particular technique
employed. The cards sent to Professor Thouless would obviously be
highly unsuitable for any tests in which the subject could see the
back of the card before making his guess. The complete bona fides
of the subject would not necessarily be any safeguard, since he might
easily be influenced towards a correct guess by unconscious observa-
tion of the symbol appearing on the back of the card. In experi-
ments in which the experimenter alone saw the cards, no damage
would be done, except that there might then be a possibihty of the
experimenter himself recognising the cards unconsciously and trans-
mitting his information to the subject by means of sensory clues,
unconsciously given. In telepathic experiments, in which the cards
are known to the experimenter, he is naturally continuously on his
guard against such leakage ; but if he was recognising the cards
without realising that he was doing so, such special precautions
would seem quite unnecessary, and leakage might possibly take
place. As regards the packs in which there was no symbol showing
on the backs, but where the backs were obviously different in dif-
ferent specimens, leakage would only be possible if the subject, and
to a lesser extent the experimenter, had had the opportunity of
comparing the backs and faces consciously or otherwise. In experi-
ments in which the subject and experimenter were in different rooms,
defective cards would obviously have no effect whatsoever, unless
it were a condition of the experiment that telepathy was ex-
cluded.
Any danger of leakage resulting from the use of defective cards
would obviously be greatly minimised as soon as the experimenter
was aware of the imperfections, and as regards future work at
Duke University we need have no uneasiness on the score of cards,
since Professor Rhine in a recent letter states that " the only way
to test E.S.P. from now on is to make it impossible for imperfect cards,
nowever produced, to be of consequence ". No doubt, in future
reports. Professor Rhine will record the precautions observed to
ensure this condition.
C. V. C. Herbert.
JIay 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 219
II. The Fisk Effect
In the experiments reported by Mr Tyrrell in Proceedings, Vol. XLIV,
Part 147, the essence of the procedure is that an operator selects a
long series of numbers within the range of 1 to 5, either by random
choice or by the use of mechanical means for obtaining a chance
selection ; and the percipient, without normal clue to the selection,
attempts to make a correct guess at each number in turn.
The " Fisk effect ", discovered by Mr G. W. Fisk after a quantity
of these experiments had been carried out, shows that if an experi-
menter, acting as " percipient ", goes on choosing the same number
iintil the " guess " is successful, then continues in the same
way with a second number, and so on, the proportion of suc-
cesses obtained is significantly above chance expectation, so
long as the operator is selecting the numbers by his own random
choice.
The reason for this is that an operator, trying to select numbers
entirely at random, tends to avoid repetitions of the same number.
If he repeated the same numbers as often as they would be repeated
in a true chance-distribution, the experimenter with the Fisk method,
during these repetitions of a number, would have one chance in five
of scoring repeated successes, and four chances in five of scoring
repeated failures. It is therefore to the advantage of his score to
make use of repeated numbers while the operator does not, if the
operator, by dodging from one number to another, will in fact hit
upon the repeated number oftener than he would if he were himself
using the chance proportion of repeated numbers. Examination of
results showed that this was the case.
In the following memorandum, Mr Fisk develops certain con-
siderations with regard to random choice, and extends the discus-
sion to the possible unconscious reactions of an operator to a per-
cipient's choice of numbers, when the operator is employing random
choice. Mr Tyrrell permits the use in the Journal of two letters
in which he has commented on the relevance of the points at issue to
some of the actual experiments ; and Mr Fisk makes a reply to Mr
Tyrrell's comments.
Memorandum on Mr TyrrelVs Pointer Apparatus
When experimenting with Mr Tyrrell's new E.S.P. electrical
recording machine it was found possible, under certain conditions,
to obtain, by " trick " methods, scores of the same order as those
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
obtained by Miss Johnson. Mr Tyrrell dubbed these methods of
scoring the " Fisk Flexible " and the " Fisk Rigid Systems ".i
With the same systems it was also found possible to make high
scores with Zener cards—again under certain conditions.
^
Regarding Mr Tyrrell's original Pointer Apparatus, it was agreed
by other experimenters and myself that with it the Systems could
not be used without the operator becoming immediately aware of
the fact,^ and, consequently, the discovery of these trick methods
could have no bearing on the 30,000 odd trials with Miss Johnson
that Mr Tyrrell had conducted with that apparatus.
A reconsideration, however, lead me to suspect that that was not
necessarily the case. To test the matter I made a duplicate of the
Pointer Apparatus and conducted a series of trials with different
percipients.
The Fisk Systems took advantage of the tendency of the operator
,
to distribute his choice more evenly among the five boxes of the
machine than pure chance would do.* Hence if a percipient con-
Timaes to open the same box successively for several trials until a
success is scored, he would not run the risk of having to wait so
long as he would do were the operator's choice truly random, as
when, for example, an unbiassed mechanical selector is used. The
percipient scores therefore because the operator is, paradoxically,
too impartial and, being on his guard against showing any preference
for any particular box or boxes, spreads his choice too evenly over
the scale.
Now since with the Pointer Apparatus the operator sees the choice
of the percipient, we assumed the Systems could not be used with-
out immediate detection. Only with the electric recording machine,
where the percipient's success or failure is not necessarily immedi-
ately known to the operator, would the Systems be workable.
That is true as far as it goes. The percipient could not use the
System without detection—but what about the operator He could
use a System to determine his choice of box for the insertion of the
pointer without the percipient becoming aware of the fact. And is
it not safe to assume that the percipient, hoping to make a good
score, also strives to be " impartial " in his choice in exactly the
same way as the operator? Will he not tend to spread his guesses
more or less evenly over the scale, neglecting no particular box or
boxes, as might be the case were a " mechanical guesser " used?
The operator, therefore, can take advantage of this " even spread
"
1 Proc, Vol. XLIV, Part 147, p. 154.
^ Loc. cit., p. 113.
^ Loc. cit., p. 161.
* Loc. cit., p. 157.
May 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 221
by successively inserting the pointer in the same box until the per-
cipient scores a success. The operator will then pass on to another
box, either in rigid or haphazard order, and let his pointer stay
there imtil the percipient scores the next success.
Actual tests show that the operator can by following this System,
either wholly or in part, increase the percentage of a percipient's
successes to a remarkable degree. Tests with five different per-
cipients gave the following results :
Percipient Conditions No. of trials % successes
17
r.r. Ordinary 1900 27-9
Pre-selected Nos. 800 21-5
System, rigid 700 29-7
M.B. Ordinary 200 23-0
System, flexible 200 41-0
E.T. Ordinary 1100 33-7
Pre-selected Nos. 600 19-0
System, flexible 300 51-6
A.E. Ordinary 100 27-0
Pre-selected Nos. 100 21-0
System, flexible 200 47-0
C.H. Pre-selected Nos. 100 16-0
System, flexible 100 40-0
Summary Ordinary 3300 29-0
Pre-selected Nos. 1800 20-5
System 1500 38-9
Under " Ordinary " conditions the operator tried to select the
boxes in a haphazard manner, exactly as was done when experiment-
ing with the original pointer apparatus.
Pre-selected numbers were taken from the last five digits of a
column of an eight-figure logarithm table (ignoring the digits 6, 7,
8, 9 and 0). They were typed in groups of five on a sheet that could
be fastened on the operator's side of the screen. I memorised the
first ten groups to avoid any delay in inserting the pointer. Actual
numbers were :
51144 3 5 535 44524 52333 52552
11545 15144 51132 25344 22213
Alternatively the simple code 13542, 53124 was used.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
The System used (except in the trials with F.F.) was the flexible
one. After a success was scored the operator chose for his next
box the one that appeared to him most neglected.
It will be seen that with pre-selected numbers all percipients
scored chance results only. The best score under these conditions
was that of M.B. with 3% above chance for 200 trials—a neghgible
difference.
When the System was used scores were very high and would give
an artificial " x " value of approximately 18-4, which would mean
probabihty odds against " chance of almost astronomical pro-
portions.
It is remarkable, however, that when the operator tried to use
" ordinary conditions " percipients still scored well above chance.
At first I thought this might indicate some measure of E.S.P., but
I now think that having once realised the possibihty of System
scoring it became impossible for me to make anjrthing like a random
selection. Unless I worked dehberately against the percipient by
following him, as it were, a step or two behind his guesses, I could
not but take advantage of his tendency to " even spread ". Con-
sidering the results with the pre-selected numbers I do not think
any of my percipients showed any genuine E.S.P. I found it quite
easy to make the percipients score high or low as I wished.
Now it is not necessary to point out that none of the experimenters
with the original Pointer Apparatus knowingly employed any such
System as described above. But the question is—could they have
unconsciously used such a system partially, but sufiiciently to affect
the results? I beheve that is not only possible but even likely.
Let us consider in more detail what is actually happening on the
operator's side of the screen. He sees in front of him five openings
into one of which he has to insert the pointer. Suppose he selects
opening No. 4. He inserts the pointer and calls out " In ", or makes
the other chosen signal to inform the percipient that he must now
choose his box. Suppose the percipient hfts lid No. 5. The operator
records the failure on his score sheet. Now he selects an opening
for Trial 2. At random he inserts the pointer in No. 3. The per-
cipient lifts hd No. 4. He has failed again. Haphazardly the
operator inserts the pointer in No. 1. But is it still an entirely hap-
hazard selection? I think it can be argued that the selection is no
longer entirely free from bias. He has seen the percipient open two
boxes (5 and 4) on his—the operator's—right-hand side of the
apparatus. He is doing his best to give the percipient a fair trial,
and does not wish to favour him in any way. It is natural, there-
fore, although he may not consciously consider the point, to select
May 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 223
for the third trial a box away from where the percipient seems to
be hovering, so, with or without conscious vohtion, he puts the
pointer into a box on the left—No. 1 or 2.
But what about the percipient? He has failed twice at one end
of the scale. What more natural than for him to have a shot at the
other end? He opens, therefore, No. 1 or 2.
There would thus appear to be two tendencies that interact. A
tendency of the percipient to spread his guesses evenly over the
scale and, after failure, try his luck at a box he feels he has been
neglecting for some time. A tendency of the operator to " dodge
"
the percipient by selecting boxes that are not being favoured by
him. Neither percipient or operator will consistently follow these
tendencies, the strength of which will vary with different persons ;
but I think it is a serious error to regard each separate trial as being
entirely distinct from its neighbours, fore and aft. There is a link
between them all, and therefore the probabiHty of success for any
trial in a series (except for the first) will not be exactly one-fifth.
To obtain rehable results, therefore, both with the Pointer Ap-
paratus and the Electrical-recording machine, it would appear neces-
sary to employ either pre-selected numbers or a mechanical selector.
G. W. FiSK.
February 10, 1938.
In correspondence with the Research Officer, Mr Tyrrell made the
following comments :
I
March 27, 1938.
Dear Herbert.—The following remarks occur to me about Mr
Fish's paper, which I return. Naturally, after he discovered a way
of utihzing the method of free, random selection chosen by the
operator so that the chance-expectation of success coidd be raised,
I used mechanically selected numbers. But I do not think that the
earher results either with the Pointer Apparatus or with the Electrical
Apparatus are imder any reasonable suspicion. In order to get
such results as he describes in his paper, it is necessary to
know about the Fisk method, and either to use it deliberately
or else to have become so inoculated with the habit of using it as to
do so unconsciously. (See his own statement, on p. 222, opposite :
" Having once reahsed the possibility of System scoring, it became
impossible for me to make anything like a random selection.")
Mr Fisk goes on to say in his paper :
" Now it is not necessary to
point out that none of the experimenters with the original Pointer
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
Apparatus knowingly employed any such system as described above.
But the question is—could they have unconsciously used such a
system partially but insufficiently to effect the results? I believe
that it is not only possible, but likely." The experimental results,
however, teU strongly against this.
(A) Take the Table of Results with the Pointer Apparatus pub-
lished in Proc. xliv. pp. 109-10. 30 subjects were tested with it, of
whom 2, only, scored significantly above chance, viz. Miss Johnson
and Mrs Hemingway. (Mrs B. -Moore was perhaps on the border.)
Now take Mr Fisk's two theories, (a) that the percipient used the
Fisk method, or alternatively (b) that the operator did so.
(a) would not account for the result on Mr Fisk's own showing, for
he says on p. 1 of his paper :
" The percipient could not use the
System without detection—but what about the operator?
"
{h) 28 out of the 30 subjects did not score above chance. Here are
the figures for the 28 : Trials = 35, 100 ; Successes = 7,252 ; X= 3 ;
P = approx. 0-001. No one would take this as significant in E.S.P.
2 did score above chance. Here are the figures for the 2 : Trials =
9,500; Successes = 2,340 ; X=ll. This is vastly significant, of
course.
Now what does Mr Fisk maintain? Experiments with the two
scorers were intermingled with experiments with the non-scorers.
He must maintain that each time I came to Miss Johnson or Mrs
Hemingway, I used the Fisk system unconsciously, and each time I
came to one of the other 28 I avoided it. Is this plausible?
(B) But actually I carried out an experiment with Miss Johnson
at Bedford College with some criticism of this sort in view. Here we
used an " every-trial " recorder with ten pens, I selecting at random
in the usual way as I had done in the successful trials above. The
ten-pen recorder would have showed " Fisking " if it had been used
on her part. The result was exactly what pure chance would give.
This I anticipated, because the new method (she was pressing keys
instead of opening boxes) and the strange surroundings would be
pretty sure to inhibit results. The results were: Trials = 1,600 ;
Successes = 333 ; D = + 13.
But what is Mr Fisk's argument? Apparently he must maintain
the following : (i) That I unconsciously used the Fisk method with
2 subjects (including Miss Johnson), and avoided it with the other
28. (ii) That I unconsciously dropped it when Miss Johnson worked
in new surroundings. And what about the other operators with
whom Miss Johnson scored?
I do not think that any of this is in the least plausible. His
system is something quite artificial, which no one ever uses until it
May 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 225
has been pointed out to him, and in my own case apparently not
even then. His own results are evidently to be explained by his
having ingrained the system so firmly into his own mind that he
could not get rid of it.
Of course, Mx Fisk might say that although Miss Johnson did not
use the System on the Pointer Apparatus, she did so every time she
came to the electrical apparatus ; but this again is unplausible.
When she was told about it and did try it, it came into hopeless
competition with her own way of scoring by subconscious impulse
and brought her scores down to chance.
Yours sincerely,
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
II
March 29, 1938.
Dear Herbert.—The further points about Mr Fisk's arguments
are :
(1) When, with the Pointer Apparatus, I experimented with 29
subjects (exclusive of Miss Johnson), only 1 of them scored. The
others got 20%.
When Miss Johnson experimented with 7 operators other than
myself, she scored with 6 of them.
It is very remarkable that I, as operator, should have refrained
from using the Fisk method with 28 out of the 29 subjects (especially
as the experiments were mixed together on various days), while at
the same time 6 quite new operators out of 7 should have used the
method at once with Miss Johnson. In fact, I do not see at all how
it can be suggested that this is plausible.
(2) The triangle of results was as follows :
(i) Miss Johnson scored with me when I was the operator. I
then (according to Mr Fisk) must have been using his method with
her with the Pointer Apparatus.
(ii) Miss Johnson scored with certain other operators, A and B,
other than myself. They, then, were using a Fisk method.
(iii) A and B, as subjects, with myself as operator, failed to score
above chance. What happened then? Either, I suppose, we all
three gave up using the method, or we all went on using it, and some-
how cancelled each other's effects out so exactly that the results
were chance scores. Both these suggestions strike me as being
fantastic.
(3) As was brought out in the report on my work in Proc. XLIV,
pp. 99 ff., each new condition introduced in the electrical apparatus
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
caused Miss Jolinson's score to fall to chance at first, but it picked
up subsequently. This happened when we passed from the Pointer
to Lamps and when we commutated the wires to the lamps, for
instance. What connection is there between an abandonment of
the Fisk method of pressing keys or opening boxes and such innova-
tions as these? The same thing happened when visitors were first
introduced.
(4) At Bedford College I took some records of my own system of
free choices and some of Miss Johnson's on the ten-pen recorder
which shows each choice, and there was definitely no sign of the
repetitions of the same number, which Mr Fisk's method demands.
Nor was there in the cases of the other students who acted as sub-
jects and had their free choices recorded. In fact, the positive
evidence does show that (a) free choices pitted against one another
do, in the great majority of cases at any rate, give 20% averages,
and (6) that people do not use the Fisk method unless it has been
suggested to them.
Yours sincerely,
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Note on Mr Tyrrell's Remarks
I quite appreciate Mr Tyrrell's point that it is difiicult to under-
stand why only Miss Johnson and Mrs Hemingway scored signifi-
cantly with the Pointer Apparatus and 28 others failed to do so if
the same operator was unconsciously using the Fisk System. Pos-
sibly Mr Tyrrell's subconscious self was playing pranks and wanted
Miss Johnson to score and the others to fail. This seems very far-
fetched, but the tricks that Miss Johnson's subconscious self seems
only too ready to play when any change is made in the conditions
of the experiments (e.g. lamps for pointer, etc.) confirm a suspicion
that subliminal selves generally are enfants tres terribles, and up to
all manner of mischief to upset our serious investigators. I am not
in the least maintaining that in the case of Miss Johnson (and pos-
sibly Mrs Hemingway) there was no genuine exhibition of E.S.P.
My own personal opinion (which is worth exactly nothing) is that
Miss Johnson does possess a genuine E.S.P. faculty. But I am
maintaining that it is impossible to prove it with the Pointer Ap-
paratus so long as the operator selects the boxes at his own sweet
will. I think that my figures show that the method leaves a door
open for the intrusion, conscious or unconscious, of " Fisking
"
which vitiates the so-called proof. The points that Mr Tyrrell raises
may show that it is probable that there was no " Fisking " in the
•May 1938 Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception 227
original experiments. I am inclined to agree with him. But prob-
ability is not enough. We want Mr Tyrrell to produce an absolute
proof, and to do that there must be no possibility of " Fishing " on
the part of either operator or percipient. I think that Mr Tyrrell's
electrical recording apparatus when used with a mechanical selector
secures that condition.
G. W. FiSK.
REVIEWS
EJvidence of Personal Survival from Cross CorrespondetKes. H. F.
Saltmarsh. Bell (" Psychical Experiences " Series). 3s. (3d.
net.
Many people, who are well equipped to discuss the evidence in
most branches of psychical research, fight shy of the subject of
cross-correspondences. It is treated as a " highbrow " region of
research, requiring scholarship for its proper appreciation. In point
of fact, where Uterary and classical allusions are concerned, once a
scholarly investigator has identified and explained the contexts there
is Httle demand upon the student except for sustained attention.
Human dislike for this efl^ort is, however, much fortified by the habit
of regarding " the classics " as a specialised and a formidable sub-
ject. Also, the sense of being on unfamihar ground makes the
student feel that he is being led blindly. Many people experience
similar feehngs, and a similar psychological resistance, at the mere
sight of figures in quantitative research.
Mr Saltmarsh's short epitome and discussion of typical S.P.R.
cross-correspondences and their significance makes a general grasp
of the subject many times easier. It is a model of clear condensation
and dispassionate exposition, and opens up a direct pathway for the
inquirer. A brief and fair statement of the estabhshed probabihties
concerning paranormal faculty is followed by a sufficient description
of the automatists concerned. We then have the " Plan of Cross-
Correspondences " simply explained, and chapters follow giving
" simple " and " complex " examples. The latter are most ably
summarised, though Mr Saltmarsh remarks that in the process
"it is quite certain . . . that a good deal of the evidential value
has been lost. In a way this may not be altogether a bad thing
"
(he adds), " for it can be fairly said that I have not overstated my
case." The last phrase prompts the comment that the statement
throughout is in the spirit of judicial summing-up and not of
advocacy.
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1938
A further study is made of the highly interesting " Statius " and
" Ear of Dionysius " cases—both better known by their titles than
by their content—which, though not strictly examples of evidence
based on cross-corresponding clues, are in a similar category in their
appearance of being puzzles set by a communicator for solution by
the verifiers. It is, indeed, a relevant procedure to set the evidence
of design in these cases alongside of the evidence of design furnished
by cross-correspondences. If there is method in both, it is one
method with variety of application. Mr Saltmarsh speaks of
" strong evidence " of design ; as he has suggested in his intro-
ductory chapter, and re-afiirms in his concluding discussion, " the
scientific method cannot yield certainty " ; but it fulfils its function
when, as here, it reveals the true grounds of hypotheses, and
clarifies our judgment of the reahty and meaning of evidence.
The Psychic World. Hereward Carrington. Methuen. 12s. 6d.
The publishers do this book a disservice, in the eyes of serious
students, when they describe it in capitals on the dust-cover as " A
complete, readable and fully documented history of the entire field
of psychic phenomena ". It is not a history, and is not presented as
one ; nor does it make the least pretension to cover the entire field.
It is a collection of studies, and of articles assembled from Mr
Carrington's contributions to different journals, on a number of
topics with which psychical research is concerned ; a Part II, about
one-third of the whole, being devoted to " Psychic Phenomena
among Primitive Peoples ". The latter section makes some attempt,
in a hundred pages, to include a little of everything from a great
many geographical sources, and contains perhaps the most interest-
ing matter in the book, though the practices of some of the peoples
who are mentioned receive rather scanty and superficial attention.
In the earher portion, a chapter on " The Psychology of '
Spirit
Communication ' " gives, at least, material for psychological con-
sideration. Mr Carrington describes how he obtained and kept a
sealed letter for the purpose, eventually, of post-mortem refer-
ence. Some years later he asked the writer if she could recall
what was in the letter ;
she had not only forgotten what it
was about, but " absolutely denied ever having written any such
letter at all !
"
Science and Psychical Research. G. N. M. Tyrrell. Methuen.
12s. 6d. net.
This work has been received, and will be reviewed later in Pro-
ceedings.
No. 546.—Vol. XXX . June 1938
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 2gth June, 1938, at Sjo p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
Some Early Experiments providing apparently
Positive Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception
BY
Mr WHATELY CARINGTON
WILL BE READ
N.B.—A'o Tickets of Admission will he issued for this Meeting.
^.
ember
the door.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their nameS at
Please note time of Meeting
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
NEW MEMBERS
Frankland, E. G., 17 Warner Avenue, North Cheam, Surrey.
Heywood, Mrs Frank, The Cottage, Sunningdale, Berks.
Robertson, Miss J. S., 13 Kempsford Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL
The 364th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 May 1938, at 3.30 p.m.. The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr Whately Carington, Sir Robert Gower, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor
of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
.signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 1 56th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 25 May 1938, at 5.30 p.m., Mr Whately
Carington in the Chair, and later the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E.
A paper entitled " The Leonard Communicator-Personality " was
read by Mr Kenneth Richmond. A discussion followed, in which
the following Members took part : Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr C. C. L.
Gregory, the Rev. J. W. Hayes, Mr C. V. C. Herbert and Mr A. W.
Trethewy. The paper will, it is hoped, be published later in Pro-
ceedings.
WITCHCRAFT IN THE BELGIAN CONGO
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
As stated in the S.P.R. Journal for February last (Annual Report,
p. 160) an inquiry was started by the Society in 1936-1937, at my
suggestion, in order to ascertain whether any phenomena of witch-
craft had come under the notice of Belgian Roman Cathohc mission-
aries in the Belgian Congo. It had seemed to me, in connection with
June 1938 Witchcraft in the Belgian Congo 231
a missiological congress held at Louvain, in August 1936, where
questions concerning witchcraft had been discussed at length, that
such an enquiry might yield interesting results.
A circular was therefore drawn up by me in French, and also
translated into Flemish. A statement by Father Martindale, the
well-known Jesuit, endorsing the projected investigation, was
included in the circular.
Though some 275-280 copies were sent to as many different
missions, only two answers have as yet (April 1938) been received.
I will summarise these two answers in some detail, adding that the
Pierre Ngomi case (to be described below) seems to me to remind us
of the celebrated Urbain Grandier case (seventeenth century ; see
Legue, Vrbain Grandier et les possedees de Loudun, 1880). In this
case an unfortunate priest, accused of having bewitched some nuns,
was duly burnt ahve on August 18th, 1634. We may congratulate
Ngomi on living in the twentieth century, which, in spite of many
horrors and cruelties, has as yet seen no such auto-da-fes !
The following is a summary of the first of the two answers,
received from Father A.B. of C. near D., Kasai, Belgian Congo.
Extraordinary occurrences are spoken of among the Kasai natives
(where Father A.B. has resided since 1919) every day. He says that,
scientifically speaking, these may be due to trickery nine times out
of ten, whilst it is almost always impossible to prove the authenticity
of the tenth case. In some cases, such as occurred in one region
of Kasai, poison may have explained the apparent possession by
wizards of supernormal powers of murder.
The undoubted fact, however, remains, of which every missionary
with some experience of the Belgian Congo is aware, that all natives.
Christians included, are convinced that supernatural events, due to
some mischievous influence, do occur, and this though almost all
the missionaries, " a few old men excluded ", have always tried to
impress upon the natives that such events have no real existence.
The native Christians remain, however, of the same opinion as before.
How are we to explain it? In 1921, Father Six, now Vicar Apostolic
at Leopoldville, expressed his conviction that " marvellous facts do
occur ", though adding that it is difficult to say what really happens ;
and " In any case the Blacks are convinced of the reality of witch-
craft, and this conviction has yet to be explained psychologically ".
Two classes of wizards do not attempt to conceal themselves :
(1) fathers who curse their married daughters ; (2) native chiefs of
the " leopard " cult.
A black girl has married a native ; her father is dissatisfied, but
she refuses to return to the paternal home. Her father then curses
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
her, either pubhcly or privately ; she is to have no more children.
All the women are convinced that in such a case she will bear children
no more. Having observed many such occurrences, Father A.B. is
inclined to believe that the curse operates in nine cases out of ten.
Almost always the woman's husband contrives to arrive at some
understanding with the father ; a certain ceremony is performed
—
kukslebola—to remove the curse—and then, Fr. A.B. believes,
children are born in at any rate half the cases. Such things take
place every day. Can they all be explained scientifically by chance
coincidence ?
We now coine to the " leopard " witchcraft. This is of two kinds.
There is first the " chief's leopard ". For years Mutombo Nxole
and the great Baluba chiefs of Lubilashi were in the habit of giving
to subordinate chiefs a leopard's skin or some leopard's teeth, to be
carried in public. The lesser chiefs persuaded their subordinates
that they alone were entitled to wear that skin, and claimed in this
coimection supernatural powers, such as driving away wizards, and
protecting the villagers against calamities. In consequence, a kind
of cult began to surround the " leopard ". Certain strange occur-
rences are related in this connection ;
they are, however, less remark-
able than the operation of the paternal curse which has been de-
scribed.
Then there is the " leopard " of secret sorcery. All the natives
are aware of the following facts. A native of bad character wants
either to become rich, or to get rid of some person he dislikes. He
comes to an agreement with old sorcerers ; these assemble in a
forest, make a leopard-shaped basket out of palm leaves, various
rites are performed, the new wizard eats human flesh, designates a
member of his family as victim—then enters the basket and becomes
a " leopard " himself. As such, he will now steal women and goats
and sell them. Other wizards make a small statue which will also
become a " leopard ".
Actual leopards do not attack men as a rule ; still there may be
exceptions, and sometimes these take an epidemic character. How
are we to explain such cases? Fr. A.B. examines some natural
explanations put forward and rejects them. The following case, he
says, is personally known to him. In 1917 or 1918 leopards attacked
men frequently in the region of Bakwa Mhaye, Kasai. One day,
Tshisanga Lukous, chief of the local tribe, growing old, produced his
" leopard basket
'"
of palm leaves, and burnt it in public, saying,
" I do not wish to kill more men "
;
whereupon the attacks ceased
at once. But soon leopards began ta attack men in other regions,
and in 1920 such attacks greatly extended, the Bakwa Mhaye
JtTNE 1938 Witchcraft in the Belgian Congo 233
remaining henceforward immune. The whole region, some 60-70
kilometres long, was struck with terror. Leopards were to be
seen everywhere, kilHng an average of one man a day, and roving
in the \'illages at night. Various rites were performed to get rid of
them, without avail. Then the Cathohc missionary of the region,
growing indignant, Avent from one tribe to another setting fire to the
kombos built by the natives, in the hope of putting an end to the
leopards' depredations. He was taking a great risk ; should the
leopards kill ^actims in the callages where he had fought the anti-
leopard rites, he would be held responsible. The position of the
missionaries might become dangerous, and, in any case, the work of
evangehsation would suffer. As a matter of fact, the campaign
made by the missionary coincided with a similar decision of the
Lusamco Tribunal ordering the destruction of all the kombos, as
reprisals in connection with the murder of a white man.
Strange to say, since then leopards have not claimed a single
human victim in the whole region. This is a fact well known to all
the natives, as Fr. A.B. can certify. It is another matter to find a
scientific explanation which w^ould be admissible.
Fr. A.B. concludes by expressing his high consideration for those
who devote themselves to the scientific study of such problems. We
thank him sincerely for his courtesy.
The second letter consists in a copy of a report sent by the pre-
decessor of the missionary who is our correspondent. The former
writes in January 1931 from a place situated near Matadi, on the
north shore of the Congo river.
In May 1930 three pupils of the native girls' school began to suffer
from nervous crises of an epileptiform type. They were at first
treated as patients, without any success. At the end of June the
crises assumed a character very different from epilepsy, and the
disorder affected thirteen persons. The first symptoms were vertigo
and violent palpitations. The girls would then fall down, burst into
tears, and presently get up and run, still howling, all in the same
direction, towards a particular dam in the vaUey of Senya.
The missionary (the author of the report) felt convinced that these
occurrences were due either to hysteria or auto-suggestion. The
crises took place only when the girls were together either at church,
at school or at work. One day the missionary threatened to lock
them up in the mental hospital ; and during the ten days spent at
the mission by Dr Spyson, a physician, no crisis whatever occurred.
The missionary learned later on that the mothers of five of the
patients had secretly brought them to a certain Kanga known as a
" fetishist Kanga made them drink a concoction of green leaves
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
—and charged them 25 francs. After this treatment no crises took
place for a month. In November, however, he recommended that
five married women should join the " possessed " girls. More violent
scenes than usual ensued, the patients attempting each time to run,
in their paroxysms, towards the above-mentioned Senya dam. Be-
ing detained by those present, they would again fall to the ground,
muttering various names incoherently ; one name, however, con-
stantly occurred, which they pronounced syllable by syllable, mak-
ing contortions of the limbs and facial muscles as they spoke it. The
name was that of a native called Pierre Ngoma, who had been living
at K. (where the mission is) for some twenty years.
On November 28th, as the girls were leaving school, one of them
was seized with convulsions, then got up and ran towards Pierre
Ngoma's house, where she again fell on the ground and began to
call to him by various names. The native in question was working
not far off with other men. He joined the group which had formed
itself round the girl, and said that if he ever again heard a girl pro-
nounce his name in a fit, he would break his stick over her ribs. The
girls present dispersed, and none of them experienced any attack
for a considerable time. On learning of these facts the missionary
submitted them all to an interrogation in order to ascertain the
exact role played by Pierre Ngoma. Out of thirty-three, only two
timidly " expressed the opinion " that the cessation of their attacks
was the consequence of Pierre's threats. All the others stated that
they knew nothing either as to the origin of their illness or the
reason for its leaving them.
Then, a fortnight having elapsed and no crises occurring, the
opinion began to prevail that Ngoma was a wizard. A local native
chief wearing a medal conferred by the government {chef medaille)
told the missionary that the girls would noAV speak, as they felt
reassured and feared Ngoma no more. They were therefore ex-
amined once more, twenty-five (out of thirty-three) declaring before
the missionary and the chief that Pierre Ngoma was the responsible
person, " adding at the same time, as if they had learned a lesson
by heart ", that during their crises it was Ngoma they heard caUing
upon them. Then, they said, he would appear to them, his left hand
being rubbed over with lime and his right hand with powder of red
tree-bark {mpemha tuJmla) and invite them to come to the place
where, instead of the dam, they would now find a big and beautiful
village. They said they felt irresistibly attracted towards him, and
explained in this way their compulsive attempts to run in this
direction ; but they were unwilling or unable to explain how Pierre
had managed to hypnotise them all to such an extent.
June 1938 Witchcraft in the Belgian Congo 235
A meeting was then held, at which two ecclesiastics were present
besides the missionary ; the chef medaiUe and various other petty
native chiefs were brought together, and the thirty-three females
were called, also Pierre Ngoma. The missionary communicated to
them the results of his investigation. The chef medaille asked Pierre
Ngoma to explain what had happened, and the latter delivered
a speech of an hour's duration in eloquent terms. He main-
tained that he had had nothing to do with the matter. If, on a
certain day, he said, he got angry with the girls, it was because they
had grossly insulted him. He said that he did not know why their
attacks had ceased.
The chef medaille then held a consultation with the petty chiefs,
the result being that they decided unanimously to ask the Matadi
administrator to expel Pierre Ngoma for ever from the region as
" undesirable ". The latter repUed he had expected such a sug-
gestion, but was ready to defend himself before anybody, as God
" who has created my heart and knows what is taking place in it,
knows me to be no wizard " {ndohi).
The report so obUgingly sent us by the missionary ends here, and
we know nothing as to Ngoma's subsequent fate.
CASE : A PHANTASM SEEN BEFORE THE DEATH
OF A FAMILY FRIEND
Mr J. Eraser Nicol of Edinburgh, a member of the Society,
communicated this case to the Research Officer, who has
obtained confirmation of the facts from Miss Kitty Brunton, the
experient, and her parents.
The following is Miss Brunton's account of her experience, as sent
in the first instance to Mr Fraser Nicol. Writing from memory,
she mentions four days as the interval between her A^sual impression
of a friend's face, and the time of her seeing the announcement of
this friend's death. On her own verification of the details, the
interval appears to have been six days. The point does not materi-
ally affect the evidence.
" IMr Cuthbert Taylor was a friend of my father for about six or
seven years.
" The only time I met him, however, was on a Sunday in May,
1935, when he paid us a visit, and I discovered that we had many
interests in common ;
the principal bond being a deep love of
miiSic.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
" Mr Taylor was a schoolmaster for some time in a lonely hamlet,
near Oban ; then he went to the quiet village of Tweedsmuir. near
Moffat.
" I never saw Mr Taylor again, but when I was preparing a
lecture on music for 8th October, 1935, he was often in my mind,
and only the train journey from such an inaccessible place prevented
me from inviting him to this lecture.
" On October 19th, 1935, which is the anniversary of my aunt's
death, I went as usual to visit her grave in Grange Cemetery,
Grange Road, Edinburgh. Before I could reach the grave, however,
I was held up wlxile a long funeral procession passed by. A young-
man whom I knew had died suddenly. As I stood there, I wondered
'
Who will be the next to die? '
When the funeral had passed,
I walked on and laid some flowers on my aunt's grave ; then
ascending to the high ground, which crowns a line of vaults, I
suddenly saw a vision of Mr Taylor's face. I was greatly startled,
especially so as the vision persisted in front of me all the way
home, and I at once told my father and mother, wondering if there
could be anytliing wrong.
" Four days later we were greatly shocked to read the announce-
ment of Mr Taylor's death in the Scotsman. I went to his funeral,
walking behind the cortege with his sister, to whom I made myself
known, and she told me that her brother had only been ill for a
fortnight. The grave was situated in the exact spot where I had
seen the vision, and during the service I felt deeply moved.
" The lady to whom I spoke was burned tragically in a hotel fire,
shortly afterwards.
(signed) Kitty Brunton."
A copy of this statement was attested by Miss Brunton's parents
as follows :
"We confirm the above statement by our daughter as being
correct and intimated to us at the time.
W. Brunton.
K. Brunton."
On looking up the newspaper announcement. Miss Brunton found
that the date of Mr Taylor's death was Oct. 24 ; it appears therefore
that her experience occurred five days before the death, and six
days before she saw the news in print. The announcement was as
follows :
" On 24th October, 1935, Cuthbert George Taylor, schoolmaster,
Tweedsmuir, in his 49th year. Funeral on Saturday, 26th, at
2.30 p.m. to Grange Cemetery."
June 1938 Obituary 237
OBITUARY
Dr W. H. Maxwell Telling, M.D., F.R.C.P., was a member of
the Society from March 1918 until his death on 28 April last, aged
sixty-three. He Avas one of the most distinguished physicians in the
North of England, and will be greatly missed by innumerable
patients and friends. Born in Surrey, he graduated at the Univer-
sity of London, and worked for a short time at Guy's Hospital. At
twenty-three he moved north to Leeds, where he spent the remainder
of his life, holding many posts. He made a record by holding suc-
cessively three professorships in the University of Leeds—Thera-
peutics, Clinical Medicine, and Forensic Medicine—and was, for
some time, Senior Honorary Physician to the Leeds General Iw-
firmary. During the war he had charge of one of the large hospitals,
with the rank of Lieut. -Colonel in the E.A.M.C. His private con-
sulting practice was, of course, large. He was a Freemason, a
magistrate, and was engaged in many social activities. He was a
fine and many-sided character ; interested on the Ughter side in
music, philately and gardening. In the later part of his life he took
a special interest in psychotherapeutics, and many a patient owes
the repair of a broken life to him. But he always sought material
causes first. One patient had been an invaHd for sixteen years,
entirely confined to the house, when Dr. Telling made the first
correct diagnosis ; the patient recovered. Dr. Telling refused to
charge this patient any fee, because he had made his acquaintance
in a friendly way and not through the usual professional channels.
This was characteristic of the man's humane and generous attitude.
Dr Telling became interested in psychical research over twenty
years ago. His chief motive was sheer scientific curiosity ; he began
to read widely, and to investigate. Eventually he came to the con-
clusion that the facts justified a belief in survival and communica-
tion. This enabled him to give comfort in many cases of hopeless
illness. And it provided him with a basis for a scientific religious
belief. But he never made any sacrifice of a proper scepticism. He
scrutinised the evidence, and woidd not go beyond it. He satisfied
himself before he passed on his comdctions. He became Vice-
President of the local Psychic Society, and, three months before
his death, he delivered in Leeds a remarkably full yet concise
account of his convictions on the whole subject of psychical re-
search ; a statement courageous yet critical. Dr Telling is a
loss to the S.P.R., for his influence was all on the side of careful
investigation.
J. Arthur Hill.
238 Joimial of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
REVIEWS.
Hypnosis : its Meaning and Practice. By Eric Cuddon, M.A.,
B.C.L. Bell. ;3s. 6d. net.
This book is one of the " Psychical Experiences " Series published
by G. Bell & Sons, and its object, like that of the others in the series,
is to make easily available to members of the public the contents of
papers read at various times before our Society. One result of this
is that a considerable part of the book consists of quotations from
papers that have appeared in our Proceedings. There is, however,
much evidence that the author has had a good deal of personal
experience of hypnotic practice, and that he has exercised indepen-
dent judgment on the many problems that arise in the course of
such experience.
Investigation of the problems of hypnotism was one of the first
tasks set before our Society by its founders, and many of those
who have joined the Society in recent years may know httle of the
work done on this subject in former days by Edmund Gurney,
Frederic Myers, Milne Bramwell, and other members. To them, as
to the ordinary reading public, Mr Cuddon's book should be both
interesting and instructive. The extent to which he makes use of
material first published in our Proceedings gives some indication of
the important part played by our Society in the growth of our
knowledge of Hypnotism. The selection and presentation of this
material has been done with much skill, and many of the recorded
experiments and the conclusions derived from them are illustrated
and corroborated by Mr Cuddon's own researches.
There is little in the book that calls for adverse criticism, although
there are various matters on which differences of opinion may
legitimately be held. The definition of analgesia as " a local loss of
sensation without attending loss of consciousness " is somewhat
misleading. This term is more accurately used in reference to loss
of painful sensations only, for in hypnosis a locahsed pain may be
abolished without loss of common sensation.
On most of the debateable questions Mr Cuddon's views are con-
servative and his judgments cautious. But we know that a judg-
ment may be good while the reasons for it may be bad. He is little
disposed to believe in, or to accept any paranormal explanation of,
such alleged phenomena as, for example, " hypnotism at a distance ";
and in referring to " 100 experiments of this kind . . . made with
complete success ", he says "it is worthy of note, however, that
the subject was an hysterical girl of fourteen years of age ". What
June 1938 Reviews 239
is implied by this statement is not clear. Whether or not the sub-
ject is an hysterical girl cannot affect the genuineness of phenomena
that have been accurately observed. The hypnotist will probably
find it just as difl&cult to hypnotise at a distance a girl who is
hysterical as to hypnotise at a distance one who is not hysterical.
If, in either case, he succeeds, he has " hypnotised at a distance ".
That doubt may be entertained of the genuineness or the value
of phenomena exhibited by hysterical subjects is merely a " popular
behef " which has no more foundation than the popular behef in
the " hypnotic power " of the successful hypnotist. Mr Cuddon
tells us that in his opinion there is no such thing as hypnotic power ;
yet he thinks that in hypnotising a subject for the first time " it is
most important that this opinion . . . should be withheld from the
subject and that his confidence be gained by convincing him that
the Hypnotist in fact possesses such a power in a marked degree ".
Such a pandering to popular belief savours of the methods of the
charlatan, and, although it may be permissible to the lay experi-
menter, the professional psychotherapist would do well to avoid
any such device. T. W. M.
Evidence of Purpose (" Psychical Experiences " Series). ZoB
Richmond. Bell. 3s. 6d. net.
" Psychical Research without Tears is a descriptive phrase that
suggests itself as one lays down this httle volume on Evidence of
Purpose, with Mrs Richmond's introduction and commentary. It
is usually an arduous undertaking to read and digest any book on
psychical research if it contains, as this book contains, really
valuable material. But it is evidence for the aptitude of the above
description that, although read on a journey to a business meeting
of a very worrying kind, the booklet held one's effortless attention
throughout the journey ; and this despite the fact that none of the
material was in itself new to the reader.
It is refreshing to read well-attested material without the trouble
of having to follow through all the verifications, and these examples
should suggest to the general pubHc that the archives of the Society
for Psychical Research cannot make dull reading, if one has the
opportunity of considting them which Membersliip gives.
After a few years of work in psychical research, one tends to
forget how bewildering at first are the technical terms that are used,
no less than the ideas that they express. Memory brings back early
conjectures about the meaning of words that seemed, to the un-
tutored mind, suggestive of queer and scarcely reputable forms of
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1938
mental illness. Hence the value of tlie little glossary appended to
these volumes.
The memory of early difficulties in trying to read Proceedings,
without guidance or plan, and of the small gain resulting therefrom,
is still fresh ; and if each volume in this series does its work as simply
and easily as this one by Mrs Richmond, the public has a remarkable
opportunity of acquiring a working knowledge of the meaning and
aims of Psychical Research with the muiimum of effort and the
maximum of interest. It is not possible here to touch upon details
of the cases that have been selected as showing purposive influences
at work ;
one can only say that, as presented by Mrs Richmond,
they make as good reading as many a detective story, while the
method of presentation allays the feeling that " there must be a
catch in it somewhere ", which too often accompanies the reading of
an ostensibly simple and straightforward book on this subject.
And this is one of the effects which deserves special congratulation,
because simple statement that properly conveys the meaning of
evidence is one of the most difficult things to achieve in writing
about psychical research. N. W.
We have received a leaflet from the Society of the Friends of
Madame Blavatsky ", in which the aim of this Society is stated to
be "to procure the pubhc withdrawal of the Report of the S.P.R.,
1885, that condemned Madame Blavatsky as an impostor ". The
writer of the leaflet, readers of the Journal may be interested to
learn, remarks that the S.P.R. treated Madame Blavatsky " to the
sort of '
justice '
that is now practised on a gigantic scale by the
dictators ", and adds " This beats even Hitlerism The writer
then goes on to compare the efforts of the Society of the Friends of
Madame Blavatsky to rehabilitate Madame Blavatsky to Voltaire's
championship of Galas and to Zola's defence of Dreyfus.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Jouryial is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 547.—Vol. XXX July 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDA Y, 28 September, igjS, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"SOME EXAMPLES OF ABNORMAL PHENOMENA
FROM AFRICA*'
WILL BE READ BY
Dr J. H. DRIBERG
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.^5 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
R
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Saturday, 30 July,
until Monday, 12 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the Staff during this time. The next number of the " Journal
"
will be issued in October.
Members are asked to return, renew or exchange Library Books
before 30 July. Each member may borrow as many as six volumes
for the vacation before the Rooms close.
NEW MEMBEES
Hall, B. Fairfax, 34 Holland Park Road, London, W. 14.
Moore, A. M. A., F.R.C.S., 82 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Stewart, Miss Meum, The Crump, Berden, Bishops Stortford.
Zorab, George, Pippeling Straat 31, The Hague, Holland.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 365th Meeting of the Coimcil was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 29 Jxme 1938, at 6 p.m.. The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.. in the Chair. There were also
present : Mr Whately Carington, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr. S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt,
R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr Kenneth Rich-
mond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
July 1938 Case 243
PKIVATE MEETING
The 157tli Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday. 29 Jxme 1938, at 8.30 p.m., Mr Kenneth
Richmond in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Some Early Experiments providing apparently
Positive Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception " was read by Mr
Whately Carington. A discussion followed, in which Dr Dingwall,
Mrs Goldney, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Lambert, Mrs Alfred Lyttelton and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas took
part. The paper will, it is hoped, be published later in Proceedings.
CASE: A STUDY IN EVIDENCE
It may be of interest to examine, largely from the point of view of
normal interpretation, a case which appears to the sitter to have a
clearly paranormal significance. The purpose of such an examination
should not be to invite a verdict against the sitter's views of the
evidence, but to set out dispassionately such arguments as can be
held to support a more commonplace view.
Any sitter relates the facts which are in evidence to a given con-
text : not merely a context of his personal beliefs or wishes, but a
context of his actual circumstances and interests, which are real to
him as they cannot be real to the outside commentator. This can
affect the interpretation of the evidence in two opposite ways. The
sitter may perceive that the material presented at his sitting chimes
in with his own facts and with his feelings about them, in a manner
that seems to have much more significance than he can convey by
noting that this point and that point correspond with one another.
And this chiming-in of the evidence with an entire personal context
is a psychological fact that cannot be set aside, whether it means that
the evidence is really apt to the context or that the personal interest,
with which the context is invested, has imported a significance that
does not rightfully belong to the evidence.
In either case, the point to investigate is whether the manifest
evidence can reasonably be thought to have arisen without any real
reference (or without paranormal reference) to the sitter's interests.
Mr Irving's recent reports of his Leonard sittings have included a
case that well illustrates this important relation between evidence
and the personal interests of the sitter, and in a properly scientific
R 2
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Eesearch July 1938
spirit lie is quite ready to have the positive construction that can be
placed upon this evidence contrasted with the negative construction
which—as in all cases—can also be put forward. The following
extracts from Mr Irving's notes, with a commentary pointing to
alternative lines of interpretation, are not designed to suggest a
conclusion in either a positive or a negative sense. It may be left to
Members and Associates to form their own conclusions whether a
positive or a negative verdict is appropriate, or whether the evidence
presents a prima, facie case that cannot be conclusively weighed up
by the outside critic. We have learned to recognise the value of
properly established negative conclusions in research ; but it may be
important, in the limited state of our knowledge, not to attempt to
herd the majority of cases into positive or negative groupings, if in a
majority of cases the Scottish verdict represents the more dis-
criminating view.
Mr Irving prefaces the case with the following note :
" For some months, I have been engaged in work among people
from the Northern distressed areas, who are being brought into this
district in considerable numbers. Children from these families are
attending my Sunday School, and a number have joined my choir.
One family, named Cole, had given up and decided to leave. The
man had already gone, the wife and five children had arranged to
follow on the day of this sitting. I was distinctly distressed at this, as
the two oldest girls were the strongest singers in my choir, and the
oldest boy, Richard Cole, had become an Altar-server at his own
request."
Apparent references to the name Cole are a central feature of the
evidence to be described, and the context in which this name would
have special relevance for Mr Irving is indicated by the above para-
graph. It may also be noted that at three previous sittings Mr Irving
had noted allusions which seemed to refer to the new influx of
children and to the demand which their presence had made upon
Mr Irving's interest and energies. Inquiry from Mr Irving (who,
in turn, has made a careful inquiry from Mrs Leonard) makes it
seem unlikely that he made any mention of this subject to Mrs
Leonard at any time. There is, however, a weakness on strict eviden-
tial grounds about all material that emerges at a sitting and could
have arisen from unrecorded and forgotten conversation with the
medium. The effect of any possible xmsafeguarded conversation is
limited, in the present case, to the general allusions to children which
appear in the ensuing extracts.
JuiY 1938 Case 245
One of these allusions is quoted, in Mr living's report, from a
sitting of 3rd May, 1938, two days before the sitting at which allusions
to the Cole children appear to be identified. The extract from the
sitting of 3rd May is as follows :
Feda :
" Why didn't they come when I was expecting them, little
while ago, the Young Ones? Something she missed at home. She
seems as if she just missed something, and she missed the lightness
—
the brightness—the lightness ; it was just, rather like a blank. She
thought you would have felt it, too. Not gone for good, Mr Bill, but
temporarily gone. '
They'll be coming again,' she says. '
It'll make,
like, happy interludes.' . . . She's looking forward to them again,
Mr Bill. Now, Mr Bill! She's brought that in specially, there,
because she has a feeling that before you go back home, you will have
seen something that reminds you of them. ..."
Here we have, first, an allusion to " young ones ", which can be
connected with Mr Irving's interest in the influx of children from the
North. A number of these, he notes, regularly come to his house
half an hour or so before choir practice, but on one occasion went
direct to the church without calling for him.
With regard to the words " before you go back home, you will
have seen something that reminds you of them ", Mr Irving comiects
this statement with the picture-test shortly to be described, and
writes as follows :
" The fact that I did not recognise it when I got the reminder of
them referred to here was due to my own stupidity. I failed, when
examining the Picture-test in the Daily Mail on Friday, 6th May,
to connect '
Old King Cole '
with the family of children named
'
Cole '. It was not till I had been at home nearly a fortnight, and
was able to study the script of the sittings quietly, that I grasped how
'
Dora '
had linked up the material."
We have to note, here, that the prediction that Mr Irving would
see " something " to remind him of the young ones " before he
went home, could have many apparent fulfilments. The record
here contains no hint that the reminder is to be connected with a
picture-test, and the chances of something fitting the allusion are not
small.
We now turn to the picture-test which was given two days later,
at Mr Irving's Leonard sitting of 5 May 1938. Mr Irving took the
sitting alone, and as his custom is, posted a carbon copy of his notes
to the S.P.R. rooms in the early afternoon of the same day. The
relevant part of the record begins as follows :
Feda :
" Now- Dora would like to go on to a Picture right away."
246 Jotinial of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
(W. S. I. :
" Good.") " In the picture, the first thing she notices is
the presentation of a Church Dignitary. Do you know what that is?
Like you. '
No,' she says, '
not like you. A Church Dignitary,
but ', Dora says, '
not like you—not like you.' Oh! Why? 'Cos,
she says, she doesn't think you'd have much sympathy with this
Church Dignitary.' '
You'll know why when you see it
—you'll know
why when you see it.'
"
Mr Irving notes :
" Nothing was said to the medium or controls
about picture-tests. On the back of the carbon copy, sent to Miss
Horsell, I wrote that the picture should be found in the Daihj Mail
for Friday, 6 May 1938." (The range of choice, that is, extends over
the whole of the paper.) " In that paper, I found a picture that
corresponds largely with the description. It is an advertisement of
Lyons' Swiss Rolls, and may, therefore, have appeared before,
though I have no recollection of having seen it before—but I do not,
as a rule, read advertisements. In this picture, which is approxim-
ately lOf in. by Q\ in., one of the two figures shown is '
Old King
Cole '.
He may be said to have been a '
Church Dignitary '.
"
Mr Irving supports this last annotation on the ground that he
and his wife, as Anglo-Catholics, had decided views on Royal
Supremacy over the Church. It struck me at once," he writes,
"as an interesting point of evidence of personal identity, that
she should joke about the King as a 'Church Dignitary'! " If
a communicator's associations are like dream-associations, this idea
could be loosely combined with the more obvious conjecture that
Feda is embroidering on a suggestion from Dora that " King Cole
"
should be compared in some respect to Mr Irving, who is a clergy-
man. Other points in the evidence, if we accept them, would be
coherent with the latter view.
The record proceeds :
Feda :
" What is that, Dora? There's such a funny thing very
prominent in the picture, too. I don't think Dora knows what it is,
but she knows what it looks like : a many-pointed star—a many-
pointed star."
Mr Irving notes :
" Prominent in the picture is the crown on the head of King Cole.
This has some five points."
Feda continues :
" In fact, there are several items—several items—several items.
That comes out of cookery books! She looks at you, and laughs, and
says, '
That comes out of cookery books. Don't you remember when
she had the cookery books—Dora—and she used to look into them.
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
to get something nice out of them, and she used to say, '
Different
items '.
. . . You wanted something doing rather specially some
time ago, and you thought of her. Was it about the time of the
Young Ones, too?
"
Mr Irving finds no special connection between a culinary require-
ment and the Northern children, but remarks on the fact that an
allusion to them is brought in at this point, " as though to show that
'
Cole '
is not an accidental reference." He does not connect
" items " with the tarts that the Queen of Hearts is presenting in the
picture.
Feda continues :
" In this picture, there seem to be several items that would
suggest, I say '
suggest ', a planetary system. '
Several items ', she
says, '
drawn in the picture,' do you see? That's right."
Mr Irving connects this with the clouds drawn around the lettering
of the advertisement, and defends this view as natural to anyone
unacquainted with astronomy ; but on this basis the word " planet-
ary " can be considered to have but little meaning. It seems
equally likely that Feda is groping after another sense for " items ",
and has fallen back on an association to the word " star "—by
hypothesis an allusion to the pointed crown of King Cole.
She proceeds :
" Will you see if the word '
gold ', or something meaning gold, is:
shown very plainly in the picture, g-o-l-d, g-o-l-d? '
You see,' she
says, '
I want to explain : it might be a heap of gold—it might be a
sum of gold '
—but she got the word '
gold '."
Mr Irving suggests tentatively that this may be an allusion to the
king's crown ; and on the hypothesis that a muddle has occurred in
association with the word " star ", the reference to " gold " might
represent an attempt to strengthen the connection of the script
with the crown in the picture. But Mr Irving also points out that
the word " gold " occurs more than once in letterpress near the pic-
ture in the newspaper, and another commentator observes that quite
a different advertisement, on the same sheet of the paper, has the
words " Gold Flake " in large black letters, and a drawing in which
two ellipses (for the rims of wheels) could be associated with " planet-
ary system ". This last observation illustrates the ease with which
at any rate one or two points can be found in some newspaper-
picture to fit a given allusion. The similarity between " gold " and
' Cole " opens yet another path of conjecture.
Feda continues :
" Now, wait a minute, Dora! Now there's a very strong idea come
July 1938 Case 249
to her from the picture. She felt, '
Something descending on me
—
something descending on me—something is coming on top of me.
It's too much for me.' I want to call out, '
It's too much for me.
This is too much.' I think that idea is portrayed clearly in the pic-
ture, '
This is too much. This is too much.' You put that down
twice, Mr Bill! '
This is too much.'
"
Mr Irving points out that the Queen of Hearts, in the picture, is
standing and offering a dish of tarts, from above, to the seated
figure of King Cole, who is waving them away, being already pos-
sessed of a Swiss roll. Both descending on me ", and " this is too
much ", seem appropriate. If we are justified in taking the previous
references to cookery, and to " different items ", into this context,
there appears to be systematic allusion to the subject of the picture.
Mr Irving suggests also that the words " this is too much " may
perhaps convey a secondary and personal allusion to his own fre-
quent feeling about the invasions of his house by a number of active
and hearty children :
" they strum on my piano, play bagatelle,
and are rather sometimes rather overwhelming. I say to myself,
'
It is too much for me.' '
This is too much.' But I love to have
them." While emphasising that this is a purely conjectural point,
we can allow that it is consistent with the hypothesis under con-
sideration.
After a brief reference to the verification of another test, which need
not concern us here, Feda continues :
" Now! Going back to what she's just given—the new one
—
she doesn't think this is in it, but perhaps through it : teeth, teeth,
dentistry and teeth."
This allusion does not add to the evidence in the case. " Perhaps
through it " should mean, in the sense in which Feda elsewhere uses
the word " through " when giving picture-tests, something to be
found on the back of the test-picture. There is nothing relevant to
" teeth ". Mr Irving notes the possibility than an attempt to allude
to the spikes of Bang Cole's crown may account for the reference to
" teeth ", and there is some ground for thinking that a communicator
would be dissatisfied with the previous attempts, supposing them to
have been made, to describe this crown ; but the conjecture is, as
Mr Irving says, " thin ".
Feda continues :
" Do you want a new kind of thing—like a dressing-gown?
"
(W. S. 1. :
" No.") ' I feel you saying, '
I must get a new one.'
"
(W. S. I. :
" Pyjamas? ") " Yes. Dora thought you'd have to.
Have to get two. Dora says, '
they seem to be all gone or going.'
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
Oh! Mr Bill! Do you remember special ones that you had long-
ago—very special ones that you laughed about—thought rather
fantastic? I got something shaped in the front—something that
amused you. I don't see the trousers, only the coat. '
The trousers
isn't always visible,' she says. There's something she means in
that!
"
Mr Irving recalls no personal memory to which this would apply,
but points out that " King Cole " in the picture has a robe like a
dressing-gown, and that no trousers are visible. The idea of a
personal reminiscence can be put down to a misconstruction on
Feda's part of the actual idea presented to her ; but it is a serious
point against such interpretations that if a statement fits as a
personal reminiscence it can be treated as a positive point on that
account, while if it fits in with another, concurrent theme (in this
case, the ostensible subject of the picture-test), it seems a positive
point in that direction. This alternative application of allusions
cannot be helped, since we have to take the Feda-mind as we find
it, but the fact of there being an alternative application greatly
dilutes the strength of the evidence.
Feda next says that " also through the picture
—
through it, there's
something about cats ". There is nothing better, for this, than a
reference to mice on the other side of the page.
We finally have a point that raises the question of alternative
applications in an acute form. Feda says :
" Mr Bill! I don't think this is you—something to do with the
'
Searchers '." (Feda's usual term for those who work at the S.P.R.
Rooms.) " Do you know, will you find out, please, if the Searchers
been thinking about the passing—the premature passing—prema-
ture—of a man in the prime of life—in the prime of life—premature
—sudden, you see? Wait a bit! His passing seems to have upset
some material matters. Apart from any grief there might be, it
seems to have been worrying—upsetting, Mr Bill. She gets this
very strongly, Mr Bill! She feels that this person would be someone
who mattered—someone who mattered. Mr Bill! Not quite just
an ordinary person, but, like, such surprise round it—such surprise.
Now, Mr Bill, will you be very careful how you put this down?
I'm getting a name sounding with a '
ker '
sound. Like the begin-
ning of coal. '
Ker '
—like that! Yes! ..."
Mr Irving notes :
" Contrary to custom, there is nothing to show, in this sitting,
whereabouts the picture-test is supposed to end. I have not yet
heard whether or not anyone has been identified by the S.P.R. as
July ]938 Case 251
here referred to ;
^ or whether the whole object of this is to bring
through the word '
coal '
—which word was not given in the descrip-
tion of the picture. I spelt the word '
coal ', rather than '
Cole ', as
I had of course no idea at the time that references were being made
to the Cole family, or to "
Old King Cole '."
We have here an emergence of the syllable k5l (to adopt a neutral
spelling) which is quite striking in the context that has been built
up around the Cole children and Old King Cole ". The question
liow that context has been built up can be more fairly discussed
after some further evidence has been quoted, especially a passage in
this sitting which appears to allude to the Cole boy who at his own
request became an Altar-server at Mr Irving's church.
Another problem is that of the justification for thinking that the
syllable kol " was introduced with intention, rather than any other
syllable that would illustrate the ''
ker-sound This, however, is
not quite a fair way of putting the problem, since on the hypothesis
of intention the " ker-sound " itself was introduced in the process
of getting Feda to utter the syllable kol ". (That is, we have to
consider the probability of " kol " as against the probability of
all other likely syllables, not merely as against the probability of
other syllables beginning with a " ker-sound But at best, the
syllable kol " may have emerged by chance, or from another cause
than that required by the " Cole " hypothesis ; it is not accom-
panied by the little explosion of excitement which Feda often (but
not always) exhibits on bringing an evidential point to expression :
if
' kol " is intentionally " slipped in
"'
by the communicator, it is
slipped in very quietly. Some emphasis is given to the passage
about the " ker-sound " (" will you be very careful how you put
this down suggests the intended production of something more
than a single consonant) ; but the long preceding passage about an
apparently non-existent communicator is full of emphasis, repeated
words and phrases, and the usual signals by which Feda shows
herself as thinking that she has got hold of something of value.
It is possible to suppose that Feda, here, feels the pressure of the
communicator's intention without knowing its actual object, and
transmits this stress as an emphasis laid upon a meaningless message
for ' the Searchers " : but this is only supposition, as against the
difficult fact that the hypothesis requires us to neglect a great deal of
emphasis laid upon points that do not turn out to be correct, while
we select and accept a little-emphasised point, because it fits in
^ No identification has been made, up to 5 July 1938,
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
with a pre-established context. Further, nothing is brought to
expression, in the whole passage quoted above, to furnish any hint
of an intended connexion with the picture-test or with the " young
ones ". Any significance to be attributed to the syllable " kol ", and
its manner of emergence, has to be weighed up very carefully
against this group of negative indications.
It remains to quote a number of allusions, later in the same
sitting, which Mr Irving refers to the children from the North in
general or to the Cole children in particular. Feda says :
" Mr Bill! What steps are awkward there? You've said that
too. Dora says, '
they are awkward '. She wants you to be careful
when you use them. You might so easily tread wrongly."
Mr Irving notes :
" The new children are always begging to be allowed to climb the
Tower steps at my Churches. At Pauntley, the Tower is very old,
and I understand the steps are worn and broken in places, though
I have never climbed them. A number of the children—including,
I think, some of the Coles—have been up the Tower."
Feda continues :
" '
Keep the door shut ' ? Mr Bill! What did you say—you must
have the door shut? You must have that shut. It had been left
open, and should have been closed. Dora thinks it is closed now.
Do you know, it had been left open before, and then you spoke
about it. Dora says, '
I made you notice it. . .
.'
"
Mr Irving notes :
" The door in question leads from the top of Oxenhall Church
Tower on to the battlements. Owing to this door having been left
open, damage had been done. I have several times, lately, told our
Verger that this door must be kept shut. I have, also, forbidden the
children, when they climb Oxenhall Church Tower, to go through
this door."
Feda says :
" Is there such a nice boy there? I feel ' boy ', not ' girl Such a
nice boy. Dora's making me feel him strongly. A boy that's so
understanding, and as if he'd got such nice manners, and such sym-
pathy, for a boy. And yet light-hearted, not miserable ; a boy with
a very fine nature. Dora has brought him and you close together."
(" Here ", Mr Irving notes, " came a few words I could not catch
exactly, but they sounded like the following :
'
She uses such a
funny word here '.") "It seems as if he'd like to serve you—it seems
as if he'd like to serve you. Let him. It will help him." (W. S. I. :
" He's going.") " He may be. It's not certain—not quite certain,
July 1938 Case 253
but whether he does or not make the best of him now. If he goes,
he'll come back. When he goes, you may not think he's coming
back. He'll come back, and there may be some delay about his
going. He's not gone.
" '
R '
—what's '
R '
to do with him? He is nice. He's got a pure
spirit—a very pure spirit, and yet he's normal, and jolly, and happy.
He's free, too, a free soul. . . . Well! We're sorry if that boy does go,
but it's only for a time." (W. S. I. : You're not speaking of a boy
that's gone? " [Meaning a boy named Maule.]) " No—no! A boy
still there."
Mr Irving notes :
" This boy is Richard Cole ; the evidence for this is clear and
definite. The description of the boy's character is excellent
;
though, if that were the only point, it would fit another boy even
better. This other boy, Maule, left the parish early in March. He,
too, was an Altar-server. After he had gone. Cole came to me and
said that he would like to be a Server ; that he had told his father
this, and his father told him to ask me. I was very pleased, as boys
are shy, and seldom offer to help in this way. He had only been
serving a few weeks, however, before the Coles definitely decided to
leave at once. They were to have gone on the day of this sitting.
WTien I got home on 7 May, however, I found them still here—but
they left on 10 May. I think it certain that they will not come back.^
There may be confusion here with Maule—as there is a possibility
of the Maules returning. '
R '
is the initial of the boy Richard
Cole."
Six names were mentioned or attempted by Feda after this, with
the remark, " Dora's very interested in these boys—she's very
interested in them, as if she's getting them together, and helping
them." " Getting them together " can be read as showing intention
to gToup these names in a particular context, if it is supposed that
Feda takes the idea literally, and adds the words " and helping
them " on her own account.
" Tony or Toby—I think Tony," recalled to Mr Irving, as he
reports, " the only Tony I have had, who left several years ago. He
was a local boy, and also a Server at Pauntley Church."
Feda asks if there is somebody there called " Peter—Peter?
"
^ A letter from Richard Cole, received bj' !Mr. Irviiig on 5 July, 193S, some
weeks later than the above annotation, says that Richard and his father may
" come do-wTi while the fruit is out ". This could foreshadow a literal fulfil-
ment of the prediction of the " servmg " boy's return, though the return
would, apparently, be for a short time only.
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
Mr Irving notes, " I know of no boy from the North named '
Peter '.
There is a young man who lives close to me, Peter S. He used to
help as a Server at church, but has dropped off coming."
The common name John is given by Feda as that of " another
boy ". Mr Irving notes that " There are four '
Johns '
in Oxenhall
Church Choir. One of these is a boy from the Distressed Areas."
Feda says, " And is there one called Barry? Berry or Barry"?
"
Mr Irving notes :
" No—but I have arranged to take my Choir,
which includes now a lot of these children, to Barry Island, on
4th August, for half a day at the sea."
A fifth name was purposely supplied by Mr Irving when Feda
appeared to be groping for it : Feda described an unsatisfactory
boy, whom Mr Irving identifies as a singularly difficult case, possibly
not normal, from the Distressed Areas. At Mr Irving's wish, details
are not printed here.
The sixth name was " Dennis ", which Mr Irving can identify only
with a choir-boy at Pauntley who left the district some months before
the sitting—not one of the boys from the North.
This group of names that can be connected with Mr Irving's
Church Choir, with the boys from the North, and in two instances
with the position of Altar-server in church—a position held by the
boy Cole, whose wish to " serve " appears to be alluded to on p. 252
—constitutes evidence for which chance seems the only normal ex-
planation. Assuming on strictly critical grounds that Mr Irving
could have spoken to Mrs Leonard of his interest in the children from
the North, and forgotten that he had done so, the likelihood of his
imparting this group of names and details is negligible. But it can
be argued that the five names actually given by Feda are not
uncommon ;
one, " Barry ", is referred only to an association of a
place with the boys in question : and there are a considerable
number of boys among whom to find relevance for the names. The
point on which a good deal of help from chance-coincidence seems to
be required is the persistence of apparent allusions to the " Server
"
theme.
This is the last point in a succession of " Cole " allusions which
Mr Irving traces as running through the material. We can say that
they all, in greater or less degree, apply to the context of Mr Irving's
interest in the Northern children, and, in particular, to his interest in
the Coles and regret at their departure. By a condensation and dis-
placement of ideas a little like that of dreams, the Old King Cole of
the picture can be jokingly applied, in a communication, to Mr
Irving in his jovial and hospitable relationship to " the young
July 1938 Case 255
ones ". And so with other points : one after another will fit the
context.
Or, we can say that this context exists and is organised in Mr
Irving's mind, and is applied to a given mass of material : that it is
not given points in the material that of their own accord apply to the
context, but the context itself which governs the selection of chance
points (with due assistance from chance-coincidence) ; these points
having no interior organisation of their own. The apparent organisa-
tion and intention behind Feda's allusions, on this hypothesis, are
due only to their having been placed in the framework of an organised
context supplied from outside—from the system of fact and interest
already present in Mr Irving's mind. (In this respect, the present
type of case differs radically from, for example, the S.P.R. cross-
correspondence cases, in which the framework to which the given
points of evidence are to be applied remains a mystery, until, after
due labour, the pieces of the puzzle appear to fall together of their
own accord.)
On a hypothesis of normal mental action—conscious and uncon-
scious—each single one of the points of evidence in the present case
can, with a little difficulty here and there, be attributed to chance,
and to the manner in which the mind does automatically select
chance items that fit into a particular framework of interest. The
" Young Ones " could cover a wider field of age than childhood,
if we are regarding Feda's phrases as fishing-nets. The " something
"
that Mr Irving will notice could be something other than a news-
paper-picture. The picture itself could have happened to be in the
medium's mind, being a well-known advertisement : or the corre-
spondences between the picture and the disarticulated details of the
description may be held to be merely fortuitous. (It will be noted,
however, that we cannot have both these explanations.) Feda's
reference to the death of someone known to " the Searchers ",
whether it has any basis in fact or not, may have been manipulated
so as to get the syllable " kol" pronounced ; but the idea of a
name beginning with a " ker-sound " could be a chance guess, and,
given this, " coal " is a word that anyone might use, in telephoning,
to indicate a hard " c ".
In the further apparent allusions to the children from the North,
" steps " that are " awkward " convey an idea that might chance
on several applications other than the steps of the church tower,
and Feda's suggestion of care on Mr Irving's part is off that mark
—he says he has not used the tower steps. " You must have the
door shut " could also have various chance apphcations. But we
256 Jaurnal of Society Jar Psychical Research July 1938
must note the coincidence (chance or other) that these two allusions
can both be applied to the association of the children with the towers of
Mr Irving's two churches. Again, the emphasis on a boy's desire
to serve jMr Irving may connect by simple chance with the position
of young Cole as Altar-server, at his own wish, and the relevant
description of the boy (Mr Irving finds it even more applicable to
a predecessor of this boy as Altar-server) could be a lucky hit ; a
distinctly fortunate chance-coincidence, however, must be brought
in if we are to give a normal explanation to the emergence of two
names which are those of past Atlar-servers of Mr Irving's, among
five names that all show greater or less relevance to boys in connexion
with Mr Irving's church services. This is a point at which a hypo-
thesis of successive chances may cease to satisfy the mind, unless
normal explanation is to be fortified by the off-chance that Mr
Irving may have suffered from a quite extraordinary attack of
communicativeness about his parish affairs, and a subsequent loss
of memory on the subject.
Without such abnormally normal conjecturing, however, we can
note at least that each single one of the elements in Mr Irving's
case can be explained as chance ; and we can try to estimate
these chances—a necessary procedure in all judgment of evidence. It
remains, after that, to weigh up the probability of so many apparently
evidential points, however varying in value, being available, by
chance, for selection ; and also to estimate such apparent indications
of constructive intention as are contained in the sequence of events
at the sitting, and in the observed course of the stream of words
by which the apparently evidential points emerge.
This, it cannot be too clearly stated, means an evaluation which
cannot be accurate and complete. There are too many factors, and
too many of them are imknown factors. An opinion only can be
formed in such cases, and, with practice, an increasingly reasoned
opinion. (Or else, it must be remarked, an increasingly rationalised
opinion.) No evaluation at all is being put forward in the present
case. Such partial evaluation, or such opinion, as is possible, is left
fox the reader to consider. The present commentary will have
served its purpose if it is condemned both for its severity and for its
lenience.
K. R. .
July 1938 Correspondence 257
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—Your Research Officer, Mr Herbert, has ruled that the com-
mercial ESP cards are " totally unsuitable for serious experimental
work ". Mr Herbert evidently has in mind letting the subject handle
and look at the cards.
For his information I will state that the ESP tests are not made in
that way, except by amateurs or for mere exploratory purposes in
search of subjects. In earlier years when the subjects were allowed
to look at the card-backs, the cards were cut from heavy opaque
stock and carefully inspected. But even so, no conclusions of ESP
were published without the security of covering series of tests in
which the subjects had no sensory contact with the backs of the
cards.
Where we disagree, I fear, with Mr Herbert is that we have come
to thinli: that no card can he counted perfect after handling (and of
course they must be handled in shuffling). Accordingly, even if
Mr Herbert obtains for his own research a more perfect pack of cards,
we should still have to take with them precisely the same precautions
we now employ with the present stock. And he will doubtless wish
to be no less careful himself. There will be simply the matter of the
added cost of the " perfect " cards.
The ESP cards are very inexpensive, are convenient to handle,
work well in shuffling machines, and are commercially distributed.
This is all that need concern us. They are quite as easily screened as
any other cards. There are a half-dozen methods of using them
safely (i.e., with no sensory contact) now in use in more than a
score of American and Canadian collegiate laboratories. A half-
dozen other techniques have been recently launched or are in
prospect.
But Mr Herbert fears that the experimenter may unconsciously
detect the symbol and then unconsciously signal or telepathically
transfer it to the subject. With the cards sealed up in opaque
envelopes or kept untouched until the end of the run, or with them
screened from the experimenter's vision, all this is definitely out.
Or with sufficient distance between subject and experimenter, any
such signalling would be ruled out. In precognition tests the
experimenter too does not know the order of the cards.
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July H)38
But if one is to suspect the experimenters themselves of uncon-
scious perception, unconscious signalling, with of course unconscious
dishonesty, would it not be simpler to suppose the simple uncon-
scious fabrication of the whole experiment and to dismiss it from all
serious consideration?
J. B. Rhine.
Duke University, 24 June 1938.
(Professor Rhine surely cannot be indifferent to the use by
amateurs or for exploratory purposes of cards which are definitely
likely to give misleading results : especially when these cards are
being sold in large quantities for amateur experiment, with its
anticipated effect upon amateur opinion.
—
Ed.)
Sir,—The studied behaviour of Mr S. G. Soal towards Mrs Eileen
Garrett described in his paper in Part 154 of Proceedings may have
had a different effect from what was intended. Instead of, or as well
as, calming the subject it may have misled her.
Thus, Mr Soal or his assistants told Mrs Garrett her exact score
when it was 8 or 9, apparently without comment, and then told her
she was " splendid " when she scored 6 or 7. Now, after her experi-
ences at Duke University, Mrs Garrett would regard these scores of
8 or 9 as nothing unusual and would therefore expect " splendid
"
to mean more than 8 or 9 and not less.
It seems possible therefore that this form of words may have misled
the subject and encouraged in her that state of mind which tended
towards the production of " chance "'
scores and discouraged her
from repeating whatever mental activity it was that brought about
the results recorded in America.
Yours faithfully,
J. T. Evans.
NOTE ON PROFESSOR RHINE'S LETTER
In considering the suitability for serious research of the commercial
Zener cards which were submitted to me, I was not concerned with
experiments in which the subject was allowed to handle the cards,
since I did not think it even rei^iotely probable that any serious
experimenter would permit such a procedure. I had in mind :
(1) experiments in which the subject saw the back of each card as it
was presented for guessing ; (2) experiments in which the subject
July 1938 Note on Professor Rhine's Letter 259
saw the edges of the pack ; (3) experiments in which the subject did
not see the cards at all, but where the experimenter saw the backs
or the edges.
For experiments of the first class the cards are unsuitable because
the symbols themselves can be seen from the backs. For experi-
ments of the second class the cards are unsuitable because certain
cards can be identified from their edges, and, if the subject had ever
seen the face or back of such a card, leakage might occur. For
experiments of the third class the cards are imsuitable because the
experimenter might unconsciously gain information as to the
identity of certain cards and transmit this information to the
subject either by sensory cues, unconsciously given, or by telepathy,
if a telepathic faculty exists.
The unsuitability of the cards is removed in the following con-
ditions : (a) A long distance separates cards and experimenter, so
that sensory cues cannot operate. (6) The subject has never seen
the cards, (c) The faculty under investigation is paranormal per-
ception in general, not paranormal perception exclusive of telepathy.
But even if these conditions obtain, any accidental departure
from condition (6) would have much more serious implications than
if cards of a reasonable standard of efficiency had been used. As
errors are liable to occur in even the best regulated experiments, it is
surely advisable to guard against their being of consequence by
taking every reasonable precaution.
No cards can ever be perfect even when new, since no two can be
exactly similar ; but I do not think that the impossibility of attain-
ing perfection can absolve the serious worker from using cards of a
reasonable standard. The commercial cards submitted to me did
not, in my opinion, attain this standard.
For experiments in which opaqiie envelopes are used, the cards
can no longer be considered as cards but merely as so many Zener
figures—pieces of paper with the symbols written on them would
be as suitable. The requirements for the cards would then devolve
upon the envelopes.
In experiments in this difficult field, where the very existence of
the faculties under investigation is open to doubt, it is surely ad-
visable to take every reasonable precaution against flaws in the
procedure. The deliberate use of defective cards seems to me to
invite adverse criticism, and greatly to lessen the weight which could
otherwise be attached to any results claimed.
C. V. C. Herbert.
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1938
REVIEW
The Mystery of Versailles. By J. R. Sturge-Whiting, with a Fore-
word by Harry Price. Rider's. 159 pp. 10s. 6d. net.
The cover of this book claims that it " explodes once for all the
greatest ghost story of all time ", by which is meant the accomit
published (1911) in An Adventure of Miss Moberly and Miss Jour-
dain's visits to Versailles in 1901 and 1902. Mr Sturge-Whiting has
been over the ground carefully, and with the help of photographs
and plans explains how he thinks Miss Moberly and Miss Jourdain
were gradually led into construing perfectly normal scenes and
persons of 1901 and 1902 as scenes and persons of the time of the
French Revolution.
This was the view put forward in the review of An Adventure in
our Proceedings (Vol. XXV, p. 353), and it is interesting to note that
it is confirmed by Mr Sturge-Whiting's quite independent investiga-
tion. There is of course no question of impeaching the veracity of
the two ladies, both now dead, but the time is ripe for a thorough-
going critical examination of the whole case, concerning which there
is interesting material in our Archives. To this examination Mr
Sturge-Whiting's book is a valuable contribution.
ERRATUM
Journal vol. XXX, No. 545 (May 1938), p. 211, last line : for
" 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 4th ", read " 1st, 2nd or 3rd ".
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
aature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Covmcil hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 548.—Vol. XXX Octobee 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private MeetinQ; of the Societv
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
THURSDAT, 27 October, igjS, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
TO PSYCHOTHERAPEUTICS
WILL BE READ BY
Dr T. VV. MITCHELL
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobeb 1938
PRIVATE MEETING
The I58tli Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 28 September 1938, at 5.30 p.m., Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo in the Chair.
A paper entitled
'
' Some Examples of Abnormal Phenomena from
Africa " was read by Dr J. H. Driberg. A discussion followed, in
which Mr N. F. Barber, Mr I. Nichol, Mr A. E. Odell, Mr Kenneth
Richmond and Mr A. W. Trethewy took part.
CASE : COMMUNICATIONS REFERRED TO THE THREAT
OF EUROPEAN WAR
Reports that public events have been predicted by sensitives are
not uncommon, but are not often brought to our notice until a
considerable time after the events have occurred. The following
record was piit into our hands by Baron Palmstierna on September
30, 1938, and will be of interest to our readers for its apparent
reference to a decision, and to the state of mind accompanying that
decision, which are vouched for as not having been known at the
time to the percipient or those with whom she was in touch. While
we cannot say that the Premier's flight to Berchtesgaden is quite
certainly the subject of allusion, the agitated message at the end of this
record indicates that some very unusual step for peace was being
taken that day, as was in fact the case.
The scripts quoted below were all received by Mrs Adila Fachiri,
in the presence of Baron Palmstierna, who states that no information
was available to them on the relevant points, beyond that which
had been given in the Press and in broadcast announcements.
Baron Palmstierna also vouches for the fact that the time of the
final script was correctly recorded by himself, when the script was
given.
Baron Palmstierna's communication to the Society runs as follows:
The European Crisis
The following unsought-for messages referring to the European
crisis and arriving through Mrs Fachiri in the manner mentioned
in " Horizons of Immortality ", are of general interest
:
" Do not worry about the present state of affairs. It is the begin-
ning of an upheaval which ultimately will unite mankind and cause
the knowledge of spiritual life to gain ground. (10.4.38)."
" There is a tremendous fight going on between right and wrong
October 1938 Case 263
and it cannot take place without causing uneasy and unsettled
feelings in those who are sensitive. It is astonishing to watch how
quickly conditions change on earth. The fickleness of man has
reached a peak. Now, this turmoil, this conflict, is mainly due to
the fact that some leaders are endeavouring to prove that their
perishable means are the one power on earth and that God is an
illusion. This extraordinary attitude is evil's weapon and it has
been fermented in the minds of degenerate leaders. It will eventually
cause their defeat."
Contemporary note : It was feared that Germany would take
advantage of the situation and march into Czechoslovakia on
demands from the Sudeten Germans. A risk of war was in the air.
" The world needs an elemental shock and then perhaps it will
awaken to the life of the spirit. (28.4.38)."
" We shall soon give you more information regarding the situation
on earth. The waves on earth are very much going in cross currents
to the waves from a strong place in space. You are under the
influence of these crossing waves but that does not mean that evil
has gained. No, as far as we can judge, it almost causes a weakening
of evil's power which, though creating uneasiness in many minds,
also causes strong desires for unity among men. (13.6.38)."
" We told you previously that earth is progressing but not being
heaven it is bound to undergo trials and just now the trials of
confusion have reached a summit. Emphasize the importance of
positive attitudes with all those who are urged to proclaim ideas
conveying to possible reforms. If they loose their flesh through
such activities it does not matter. Their influence will be left
behind and continue the work. (16.8.38)."
Contemporary note : The rapidly developing crisis over Czecho-
slovakia and the threat of another world war caused widespread
anxiety.
" The force, e.g. the remaining force, of evil is hard at work but,
as we see it, the situation will be cleared up. Remember that we judge
from the main pictures we see but what goes on inside those em-
bracing pictures are incidents created by man which nevertheless
matter for the souls on earth who depend on them.
We advise all to maintain a cheerful attitude and not to fall for
depressions. We cannot repeat it often enough that such a state of
mind is important. A wise measure would also be to concentrate
thoughts on the man who is not clear himself about the actual
situation. Even a joint petition to him, if delivered straight, could
produce miracles.
But it is always fear or fear of self ridicule which prevents actions
S2
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
of that kind. Christ would not, however, have minded to become
ridiculed when doing a good act. (14.9.38)."
Contemporary note : This to us incomprehensible message received
its explanation after the historic events. It seems to portray the
minds of those concerned. It is now common knowledge that Herr
Hitler was not fully aware of the situation and its implications ; and
the words of the British Prime Minister in the House of Commons
on September 28 bore out that he had conquered the fear of self-
himiiliation and ridicule in case of a failure. He said : "I know very
well that in taking such an unprecedented course I was laying
myself open to criticism on the ground that I was detracting from the
dignity of a British Prime Minister. . . . Considerations of that kind
could not be allowed to count."
At the end of the same day's sitting, 1.1.5 ^;.w., a rapidly and
excitedly dehvered message arrived announcing better news :
" We are just told that you will hear some news about the situation
which might clear away some fear but we are also told that every
second—speaking in earthly words—moves on fickle waves. We are
trying our best to interfere and to disperse the unsteadiness."
Note : The decision to fly to Berchtesgaden must evidently have
been taken at the indicated moment. The Prime Minister flew on
his first visit to Germ.any on the next day, the 15th of September.
The news of his intention to go was announced in special editions of
the evening papers at about 10 p.m. on the 14th in London. Sub-
sequent events bear out that the meeting of the two statesmen and
the direct appeal bore the intended results in the end. Naturally
none of those who were given these messages, being at the time in
Scotland, and far from news, could have preconceived or heard of
the momentous step taken by the British Prime Minister.
London, Sepemher 30th 1938. Erik Palmstierna.
CASE : AN INSTANCE OF MENTAL AUTOMATISM
AND APPARENT TELEPATHY
This Case is presented by Mr J. C. Maby, as a study of automatic
mental action with only slight indications of a paranormal back-
ground. It is not without value, when we are considering the prob-
lem of paranormal perception in general, that we should know
something about the play of construction that commonly goes on
in the percipient mind, and this analysis of an experience may
promote discussion of the psychological mechanisms that are
involved. We welcome Mr Maby's plea for fuller consideration of
spontaneous cases, and we are, as always, anxious to give attention
October 1938 Case 265
to any careful record and authentication of phenomena. The initial
effort, however, can only come from those who take the trouble to
make careful records, and to have them attested, at the first possible
moment. It is these who make the mam contribution to progress
in psychical research.
Mr Maby reports and coroments upon his experience below.
The following comparatively simple experience, the apparent
nature of which is indicated by the above title, may be found to be
generally instructive in connection with parapsychological studies.
By way of introduction I should explain that, although I have
occasionally acted in the past as an unconscious automatist at little
table-tipping seances, at which it was shown by suitable tests that
it was I, apparently, who was producing the " messages " ; and
although I have also once or twice written down short " commimi-
cations " that I have heard in a faintly clairaudient manner quite
unexpectedly and spontaneously ; I have never encouraged or
regularly practised the faculty, which I have simply treated as a
convenient subject for analysis. I have, nevertheless, as long as
I can remember, been notably subject to telepathic, and occasional
clairvoyant or even, more rarely, apparently precognitive, percep-
tions ; and such perceptions have not infrequently taken on a perfectly
objective hallucinatory form—sometimes easily distinguishable as
such, at others entirely indistinguishable (except by means of
a subsequent examination of their context and the negative testi-
mony of other persons present at the same time) from normal
sensory perceptions, whether of sight, sound or touch. And it was,
in fact, the insistence, subjective reahsm and frequent veridicahty
of such experiences that early stirred my personal interest in
Psychical Research. The present incident has, therefore, been
selected from a considerable collection of often more dramatic and
remarkable experiences of an aUied nature, and selected for purely
illustrative and analytical reasons, rather than because of any
dramatic quaUty which it certainly does not possess.
The experience occurred on May 16th of this year ; it was recorded
in pencil at the time, and shown to my wife and a neighbour (who
have attested the fact) the next morning ; and my brother, who may
be fairly described as agent in the matter, was sent the account and a
brief questionnaire two days later. These notes and correspondence
may be seen by anyone interested ;
^ but I have endeavoured to
give the gist of the affair in the following account without distortion
or serious omissions.
1 They are on record at the S.P.R. Rooms.
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
Conditions. I had retired to bed alone, after some late laboratory
work, at about 12.30 a.m. (summer time), with the idea of reading
for a short while ;
but I decided, instead, to try my hand at a little
" automatic " writing, by which I mean conscious writing down of
seemingly inspirational ideas of communications ; to do which I had
felt an urge growing upon me for some time that evening, as well
as upon other past occasions, when I had taken no action in the
matter, owing to other preoccupations. On the evening in question,
however, the sensation was a relatively urgent one. But I had no
preconceptions as to the possible nature or form of the forthcoming
" message ".
I sat up in bed, with pencil and a sheet of paper, feeling wide
awake, though prepared to sleep, and made my mind as blank
and receptive as possible ; the night being still and no immediate
disturbances to worry one. Certainly I was not comatose.
After a few disjointed thoughts and visual images that I judged
to be of personal and obvious origin, I was momentarily startled to
hear quite distinctly and in life-like tones what was undoubtedly
my wife's voice speaking to me. But it was an " inner " a,nd " still,
small " voice—not externalised in the room around me, nor outside
the room. In fact, the communication was of the " telephone con-
versation " variety. My wife, be it noted, had gone to bed on the
floor below me, feeling tired early, at about 10.30 p.m., and she was
(she said) certainly fast asleep long before the time in question,
being a fairly heavy and easy sleeper. It should be noted, however,
that on a number of occasions, while sleeping together, I have, both
accidentally and purposefully, acted as telepathic agent and she as
percipient, when she has scarcely fallen asleep or has been restless ;
so that there may be said to be a good psychical rapport between
us—a fact clearly evidenced by commonplace thought transferences
between us in the daytime also. But such examples need not be
further mentioned here, except perhaps to remark that the same
thing applies to our small boy, R., and (though less strongly and
frequently) to other more or less intimate friends, relatives and
members of the household ; that frequency evidently decreasing in
proportion to the decrease of inter-personal affection and sym-
pathetic understanding, as distinct from any question of mere com-
monality of daily experience. Or thus it would appear.
My wife's voice was almost immediately followed by a second,
male, voice, speaking in a very different and an authoritative tone,
and commencing with the entirely unexpected exhortation :
" Write
what I tell you! " To which I, meekly and with interested expecta-
tion, acquiesced. I had been waiting for my wife's voice to con-
October 1938 Case 267
tinue, and the sudden transition gave me a definite shock. At the
same time I strongly sensed that it was my brother, then in Oxford,
addressing me, or at least that he was directly associated with the
phenomenon. Yet the voice was, if anything, more like my own
voice, as if reading aloud from a book or else making some formal
proclamation. It was again an " inner " voice of the " telephone
"
variety, not objectively externalised in a spatial way, nor seeming
to enter through one or other ear ;
and yet it was subjectively
externalised, if one may use such a phrase.
This new voice was, as I said above, imperative in tone : it was
also quiet, unfaltering and extremely deliberate, as if purposely
dictating to me. Once or twice it seemed to fade into the distance,
as if some kind of screen of my own conscious thoughts had inter-
vened ;
then I had to wait and listen carefully for the next few
words. There was also a sense of slight uncertainty about some,
but not all, of the proper names ; but I did my utmost not to allow
any auto-suggested words to creep in. Once or twice, however,
I had a strong suspicion that I was tending to anticipate in my
own mind ;
though the voice seemed to continue without attention
to such thoughts of mine, so that the whole " communication " gave
me a sense of extraneous inspiration—whether rightly or wrongly
the reader must try to judge for himself. Moreover, the " com-
munication " ended as unexpectedly as it had begun, and that with
a definite air of finality and completion. Nor did anything further
transpire, though I waited receptively for some minutes.
The two " communications " are given below, verbatim.
It remains to be said that I have not studied the Classics since
I was fourteen years of age, nor looked at or in any way consciously
reflected upon classical literatm'e of any sort, I believe, for several
years ; but have been actively engaged upon my own scientific work
in the laboratory, interspersed by occasional literary efi;orts, mainly
of a biological, physiological or psychological kind ; such matters
being very far removed from the present " communication " both
as to content and style. I had, moreover, been engaged in experi-
mental work until late that very evening ;
neither had I given (I am
ashamed to say) intentional thought or conversation to my brother
for several weeks previously, though I was aware that he was in
Oxford. We had not lately written to one another. I had, however,
late one night, again while lying in bed, a few days earlier, quite
suddenly had a distinct sensation that my brother was in my room
in 2JeTson walking towards me. But the impression was evanescent,
and I had almost immediately dismissed it from mind without noting
the date or making any enquiry—especially as he regards such
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch October 1938
experiences with a mixture of aversion and contemptuous amuse-
ment.
The " Commmiications
"
A male voice (sounding like my own). ..." What do I hear?
"
A female voice (clearly my wife's). ..." Cecil, it is Adelaide
speaking. Hullo darling!
"
I answered " Hullo! I hear you ", or some such words, not
recorded, and waited for more. There was then a pause of a minute
or more.
A male voice (my own or my brother's?). ..." Write what I tell
you."
I answered that I was listening, and prepared to write as desired.
The Voice (calmly, slowly and with precise determination, in the
same rather monotonous, but imperative, tone).
" There was a time in Sidonia, before the Komans sacked
Carthage, when corn was cheap and plentiful, and no man paid
more than two denarii a bucket for it. At such a time came
Cassius with a fleet of galleys numbering over 2000, rowed by
slaves from Gaul. And one Parvinus, an overseer in the house-
hold of Armenius (a brave man, but an enemy of Caesar) gave
warning to the citizens ; it being the tenth day of March
according to the Julian calendar.
The moon being full, Cassius commanded that the ships be
run upon the strand that bordered the sea-shore at that place,
thinking to storm the enemy's encampment by stealth at night.
But the night being clear, and no wind stirring, then did Par-
vinus perceive the invaders from his station upon the roof of
Armenius' house ; and going into the city sounded an alarm.
So that Cassius and all his men were driven back upon the sea-
shore, and many killed by the Sidonians in a great massacre
before they were re-embarked and clear away beyond the spears
and arrows of the victors. ... So were the invaders driven from
Sidon, and the city saved by the watchfulness of Parvinus and
the valor of his compatriots." [Punctuation inferred by ear.]
Statement by the Supposed Agent
In response to my questionnaire, which he answered, and in a
covering letter, my brother (A. C. Maby) confirmed that he was
living and working in Oxford at the time, had not seen me since
Easter, and that we did not then discuss any classical literature or
history. He said that he had not particularly been thinking of us
on that day, but that he had done so on other occasions recently ;
October 1938 Case 269
that he had not lately been studying classical or relevant Hterature
from which such a passage as that cited above might have been
somehow derived.
But in his covering letter my brother wrote as follows :
" I do not think for a moment that the message came from me,
though the following additional points may be of interest.
1. I was awake at the time (of the '
communication') on Sunday,
May 16th to 17th. I could not go to sleep either that or the following
night, which is most unusual for me.
2. I have done absolutely no reading of Latin or Greek for two
years. Recently, however, I have seen Purcell's opera Dido and
Aeneas : scene—Carthage. I have also had discussions as to the
connection between Carthage, Phoenicia and Wales, apropos of
musical modes. But not for a couple of months.
3. I am glad that I did not give you a message so full of an-
achronisms!
"
He then went on to point out that Carthage was sacked by Rome
in 146 B.C., long before the birth of Caesar or the use of the Julian
calendar ; that Armenius and Parvinus are not Sidonian names,
though they might be those of Romanised Sidonians. And he
suggested that two denarii was " a lot for a bucket of corn ".
Analytical Remarks
As this incident has been given simply as an interesting example
of a form of clairaudience and semi-automatism, seemingly based
on telepathic factors, the significance and psychological value of
which members of the Society may best assess for themselves,
it is not proposed to enter into any very lengthy discussion. I am
personally satisfied, however (see also subsequent incident below),
that the strong sense of my brother's presence, combined with the
fact that the names Carthage and Phoenicia {e.g. Sidon) had admit-
tedly been prominent in his thoughts some short while before the
" communication " occurred—whereas I can think of no other prob-
able source—and the fact that he was unusually wakeful and restless
that particular night points to A. C. M. as a probable telepathic
agent. That such ideas were not consciously uppermost in his mind
on that particular night is, I think, no major detraction, as he may
well have had them in mind in a dreamy or subliminal way :
^ more
likely that, than that I should have absorbed them several weeks
1 A. C. M. is, on his own admission to me lately, of a definitely dissociative
type of mind, and has always been exceptionally good at abstracting his miad
from immediate smroundings.
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobeb 1938
earlier when we met at Easter. And we certainly never discussed
such names or incidents at any time, as he would also confirm.
As evidence of telepathy the case is a poor one, however sug-
gestive ;
but, in view of the fact that I carefully recorded my
various impressions, it is, I believe, of some interest psychologically
and from the viewpoint of automatic and clairaudient phenomena,
when we are considering the kind of mechanism by which such
processes occur.
My brother has rightly pointed out certain anachronisms, of the
existence of which in the script, though I am not a classical scholar,
I was mildly aware at the time ; so much so that I certainly should
not voluntarily have produced such a historical mixture. Nor is
the style, I think, at all my own, in its pleasantly rounded and self-
contained brevity. Then there was the very remarkable sense of
objectivity and extraneousness, the firm decision and abrupt begin-
ning and ending—different from any minor " inspirations " or sub-
conscious promptings that I ever remember to have received in
literary or scientific efforts of my own. Moreover, preceding it was
the reahstic and objectified voice of my wife, which equally took
me by surprise, and which did not continue when I expected it to
do so, though I kept calm and receptive.
No matter how true it may be to suggest that the greater part
of such a confabulation would seem to have been done by the
automatist's or clairaudient's (in this case my own) subconscious
mind, utilising past memories and ideational associations, and thus
making a little work of art out of a few bare and initially unco-
ordinated facts ; the nucleus or veridical core of the whole thing
would ajDpear to be substantial. In this case the core might, perhaps,
be whittled down to the two words Carthage and Sidon, plus, may
be, the idea of ships and of early Eoman times : the whole being
cemented together by an awareness of the agent's (my brother's)
individual personality. But such a core does, I believe, generally
exist ; and I venture to suggest that this little experience affords
a miniature picture of the sort of phenomena that are commonly
produced by automatists and trance mediums. And, if so, it is
conceivable that, where some initial sjTnpathetic link may be said
to exist between two living persons, or else one living and one
dead, of whom one is in a suitable frame of mind to act as " agent ",
the other as " percipient ", then there may actually occur a rela-
tively objective incursion of thought, (some component of per-
sonality), from the former to the latter. Moreover, such an incursion
may occur quite involuntarily, may amount to partial possession of
the one person's psycho-physical organism by that of the other, and
October 1938 Case 271
may feel as real and objective to the subject (or percipient or medium)
him- or herself as it sometimes also does to the onlookers.
Having more than once sensed these things personally while fully
conscious and in a rational, though " receptive," state of mind, I am
prepared to vouch for the general truth of those many similar, but
often profounder and more complete, experiences of trained mediums,
clairvoyants, clairaudients, automatists, mystics, etc., which it is
the particular business of our Society to investigate and discuss.
I would naturally welcome further analysis or any constructive
criticism by those in a position to give them. But such criticism
cannot be counted constructive or of any real value if it merely
dismisses the telepathic aspect of such cases as probably chance-
coincidence, and in any case worthless because they are spontaneous,
or brushes aside the percipient's sensations as being of no account,
since they are merely subjective and personal. For, although it is
true that such a spontaneous incident is, considered on its own
merits alone, necessarily somewhat inconclusive ;
yet, when it is
considered as an example among a great accumulation of such
spontaneous cases, classifiable into groups that present common
evidential features, then an example of that kind, critically con-
sidered, may afford a key to at least one small door into the mys-
terious precincts of the human mind and its workings. And it is
my belief that one case here and there of spontaneous extra-
sensory perception or cognition, if properly recorded and analysed,
is likely to afford more and surer information, and that, too, of a
more detailed kind, than thousands of statistical experiments done
to order—not that I wish to underrate the value of such experiments
in their own line. The spontaneous case, however, is a natural
product, occurring under natural circumstances (often very complex
circumstances), whereas the laboratory ex]Deriment, apart from
being a simplified and meagre affair, is always likely to be arti-
ficialised, and hence will tend to present an unnatural and distorted
view of the subject of study. That such is the fact has been demon-
strated time and again in physiology, anatomy, experimental psycho-
logy, and even in physics and chemistry. That is why the more
artificial branches of biology, including physiology and experimental
psychology, have lately come to such an impasse. For one cannot
with impunity study any single environmental factor in relation to
a given phenomenon—especially a phenomenon of hfe—with a total
disregard of the rest. And it is the interwoven complex of factors
that form what is known as " the appropriate psychological atmo-
sphere " in parapsychology ; to disregard or interfere with which is
generally to court failure.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
I would like, therefore, to conclude this short paper by an appeal
to students of Psychical Research to return to the serious study of
spontaneous cases in equality with, if not in preference to, experi-
mental results. For the former not only provide the richer and more
natural field for study, but, if a tolerably good extra-sensory per-
cipient, medium or other subject can be found (as they can often
be found), and the latter can be trained to record and to some extent
to analyse his or her own sensations and perceptions as a matter
of routine, then the spontaneous cases will be found to occur suffi-
ciently frequently to enable them to be treated experimentally
—
and even, if a sufiicient number accrues, also statistically. More-
over, the conditions essential to natural occurrence can then also
be determined by subsequent inspection. That such is the case has,
in fact, gradually become clear to me as a result of my own personal
experiences over some twenty years. Such experience has also con-
firmed me in the opinion that the occurrence of extra-sensory per-
ceptions of a simple order is by no means so uncommon amongst
people in general as is often maintained. The main trouble is that
most potential percipients are either insufficiently interested or
insufficiently introspective to realise the significance of such experi-
ences ; or else they tend quickly to forget about them, as one forgets
dreams on waking : a fact that was also demonstrated by the early
S.P.R. census of hallucinations. At the same time, it is not to be
denied that the frequent percipient is a relatively rara avis ; but
that, too, is, quite probably, partly a matter of personal interest
in the action of an innate and relatively common, if not universal,
faculty. Good percipients, however, usually have something of the
contemplative, mystical, artistic, and mentally abstracted tempera-
ment about them.
Note on " two denarii a bucket
"
The cost of corn (? wheat) described by the voice as being " cheap
and plentiful " at " not more than two denarii a bucket ", is a point
of interest. In the first place, I had no conscious knowledge of the
value of a denarius, though long ago I may have read or been told
of it. In the second place—and this I can confidently assert
—
I have never in any way interested myself in the present or past
cost of wheat, etc., and certainly had no idea what grain measure
an ordinary two- or three-gallon pail would hold. Nor, apparently,
had my brother. So that, unless one assumes (1) that we knew the
value in present-day currency of a (silver) denarius, (2) knew the
present cost of corn, say, per bushel, and (3) knew what measure
of corn an average bucket would hold—all that in our subconscious
October 1938 Case 273
minds, plus the necessary calculations—we could not, either of us,
have arrived at the knowledge implied by the " commimicator's
"
statement.
Now my brother, in his letter, at once expressed the opinion that
two denarii was dear for a bucket of corn, though he has no special
knowledge of the subject. Neither did he refer the statement to
any information in his possession. On looking into an old dictionary
I subsequently found that a silver denarius was reckoned, early last
century, to be equivalent to about 7|d., which would make two
such coins worth about '2s. 7d. at the present-day value of our money
(rating it at roughly twice what it was about a hundred years ago).
And, taking " a bucket " to mean an ordinary three-gallon pail,
farming neighbours tell me that such a quantity would now be
worth quite 3s. One may, therefore, conclude that corn y)as indeed
" cheap ", but otherwise about normally priced, at 2s. 7d. a bucket
—
as the " communicator " asserted ;
though neither my brother nor
I had any certain views on the question ourselves, and oiir farmer
friends had to scratch their heads for some time before arriving at
a present price for such a measure. (Three were consulted.)
Addendum
A further small incident indicative of mutual telepathy has
occurred since the foregoing account was first drafted ; I give it
for what it may be worth without detailed comment
:
One evening in July, while I was considering in my mind the need
of some hedge-trimming near our front garden gate (which has
recently been repainted), I suddenly and "as if from nowhere
"
found myself in a kind of day-dream, in which I was busy fixing a
rather blatant and surburban-looking name-plate with large gilded
letters to the gate in question. The next moment I was conscious
of the aberration, and saying to myself :
" How ridiculous and
beastly in a little rural village such as ours! Whatever could have
given me such a preposterous idea?
"
The picture was very realistic, and I told a neighbour (a sculptor)
of it the next day when we met. He and three other people can
confirm these facts along with the sequel about to be described.
^
Some three or four days later my brother from Oxford visited us
in company with a Miss T., and, during the course of a conversation
about the house, mentioned that he had had a dream a few nights
before to the effect that we had re-named our house rather curiously,
but that he could not recollect the name or further details. And
1 The corroboration here mentioned is on record at the S.P.R. Rooms.
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
he agreed that it would have been about the same time as my day-
dream—probably either the night before or after it. My wife and
Miss T. were also present at our conversation, and I naturally told
them of my own experience, which seemed obviously to link up with
my brother's dream, as neither of us had any evident reason for
our fantasies. J. Cecil Maby.
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
Sir,—Mr Soal, in his review of two books (Ernest Hunter Wright,
The Case for Telepathy, and Professor Chester E. Kellog, New Evi-
dence (?) for " Extra-Sensory Perception ", Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XLV,
pp. 88-96), makes the following criticisms of my work. (1) He
complains that I have published no lists of the cards used in my
card-experiments in Pure Telepathy, saying (p. 91) :
" Neither Dr
Rhine nor Mr Tyrrell have published lists of the card-images used
in their experiments in Pure Telepathy ". If I understand him
rightly his argument is that in experiments in pure telepathy, in
which no actual cards are used, but both agent and percipient
mentally select the card-images they use, there is not a truly random
sequence of card-images on either side. Consequently the exact
probability of chance-success needs to be deduced from a record of
the order of guesses. This is a point to be borne in mind by anyone
carrying out this kind of investigation ; but I have neither made nor
published any exjjeriments in pure telepathy.
(2) On the same page, Mr Soal says :
" The next important
criticism that Professor Kellog makes is that Dr Rhine (and the
same observation applies to Mr Tyrrell) refuses to record and
analyse the sum total of his records. If the subjects do badly on
certain days, then it is said that the failure is due to some psycho-
logical disturbance and the results on such days are ignored. But
as obviously the statistical data themselves are the only criterion
of the existence of an extra-sensory factor we are, if we adopt such
methods, moving in a vicious circle."
It is a pity that Mr Soal's criticisms are vague as well as inaccurate.
It sounds as if he meant that I have discarded the results of poor
sittings after the sittings were held and have counted only the results
of the good sittings. If he does mean this, the statement is untrue.
Surely no rational experimenter would merely pick out the best
scores! What I have done is to decide on certain days beforehand
October 1938 Correspondence 275
that the results of that day's sittings should not be counted, whether
they were good or bad. It is advisable to do this if a run of failures
is having a discouraging effect on the subject. Excejjt for this,
everything has been counted. May I ask Mr Soal whether he sees
any objection to this procedure ;
and, if so, what his objection is?
Mr Soal seems (I am obliged to say " seems " until he deviates
into clarity) to cast certain doubts on the supernormality of my
results in general, as well as hinting that the use of the Commutator
is unsound. He published the following in Light of 9 June. 1938 :
" To select a few good scores from a large mass of indifferent ones
and then, when the subjects who have produced these exceptional
scores fail to guess above chance-expectation, to argue that they
have '
lost their power '
is a travesty of scientific method. The same
objections apply to the experiments of Mr G. N. Tyrrell, who, I
understand, has not even kept a record of all his data. All Mr
Tyrrell's early work was vitiated by the elementary fact that the
subject and the experimenter were able consciously, or uncon-
sciously, to correlate their number or position habits. But, even
had they not been able to do so, it would be an error to assume that,
when two non-random distributions are paired off against each
other, the mean chance expectation is the same as when both the
sequences are random or haphazard. I have not actually seen Mr
Tyrrell's new electrical apparatus, but Mr C. V. C. Herbert assures
me that there are serious objections to the use of the commutator."
I should have no objection to Mr Soal's doubts and criticisms if,
instead of making statements of this kind, he would give clear
replies to the facts and arguments which I have summarised in
Journal S.P.R. Vol. xxx, pp. 223-6—facts and arguments which
point directly to the supernormal character of the results ; and if he
would further state what is wrong with the use of the commutator.
But clear statements on these points he has never made. Let me
confine myself to a single issue, however. Mr Soal has said or
implied that no positive experimental results in E.S.P., occurring
under test conditions, have been obtained on this side of the Atlantic.
In Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XLIV, pp. 150-1, he will notice that, with the
Electrical Machine, Miss G. M. Johnson, as percipient, scored 1841
successes in 7809 trials. The conditions were as follows : (i) The
order of the keys pressed by the operator was taken from a list of
figures, which had been written down on cards from numbers taken
directly from the tested Mechanical Selector. They were therefore
a random series, (ii) The Commutator was used and was reset from
time to time during the experiments in positions unknown to the
operator, (iii) The trials took place at a speed of about 60 to the
276 Jour7ial of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
minute, and the odds against success by chance is of the order of a
billion to one. Does Mr Soal think that this result was due to
chance? If not, has he any normal explanation of it to offer ? Is
he prepared to demonstrate this explanation, if he has it, by taking
the percipient's place at the apparatus and producing 1841 successes
in 7809 trials, showing at the same time the normal method by which
he does it? If he is prepared to do this, some definiteness will have
been imported into his nebulous criticisms, and I shall be the first
to publish and acknowledge the normal method of working the
machine which can produce this result. Mr Soal would work under
exactly the same conditions as Miss Johnson. If he maintains that
she scored by a normal method, he should be prepared to show what
it is. Mr Herbert has the tape-records of these experiments at the
rooms of the S.P.R. and Mr Soal is at liberty to analyse them if he
likes. But the fact which demands explanation is simply how 1841
successes were scored in 7809 trials.
I shall probably be asked in return to repeat the results with Miss
Johnson for all to see ; and I quite agree that that would be the
most satisfactory thing to do if it were possible. But I cannot do
this. I have never claimed to be able to reproduce any result at aU
to order. I do not know why I get positive results occasionally and
not at other times. It is just a fact of experience ; and it is surely
foolish to say that the experiments ought to be repeatable at will
when experience shows that they are not. All I can say about the
conditions is that I have observed that the right mental state
depends upon very slight and very general factors and is at the
mercy of all kinds of outside influences, which, at fijst sight, might
be assumed to be negligible. It may be possible to get more results
in the future. I hope so, but I cannot guarantee it.
It seems opportune to remark here that, although clear and
definite criticism is of the greatest value in psychical research, vague
and inaccurate criticism is worse than useless ;
and, in particular,
the type of criticism which insinuates that something is wrong but
cannot say what the something is, has the deplorable effect of
muddling the mind of the onlooker and of sowing unformulated
suspicion. It gives the public a quite unnecessary and gratuitous
reason for ignoring psychical research and is exactly the thing which
most vitiates a scientific inquiry.
Yours, etc., Gr. N. M. Tyrrell.
OCTOBEE 1938 Revieiv 211
EEVIEW
Discarnate Influence m Human Life. By Ernesto Bozzako. Trans-
lated by Isabel Emerson. Library of the International Institute
for Psychical Research. Volume I. Published by John M.
Waters. 8s. 6d.
In this first volume of the Library to be issued by the International
Institute for Psychical Research, Signor Bozzano takes as his thesis
the proposition that " Animism proves Spiritualism ". The term
" Animism " appears to be here used to mean the supernormal
activities of the subliminal mind of an incarnate himian being. It
is, perhaps, a pity that this word has been thus employed, as it has
already been used by philosophers and psychologists in a completely
different sense. In his first chapter the author argues that the super-
normal faculties of the subliminal mind are not the product of
biological evolution and that the " integral subconscious personahty
is a spiritual entity independent of any functional interference, direct
or indirect, from the brain ". The reasoning employed appears to
me to be weak, and I cannot see that the conclusion at which the
author arrives is established thereby. In his second chapter he
attempts to assign limits to subliminal faculty and cites cases in
support of his argument. Here again I fail to see that he establishes
his position. The alternative explanations which he brings forward
for cases which appear to go against his theory rest, as it seems to
me, on unproved assumptions.
I do not, for a moment, suggest that there are no limits to sub-
liminal faculty, in fact the difficulty of accounting for " selection
"
rather tends to show the contrary, but I doubt whether he is correct
in those which he assigns.
In the next two chapters he discusses the phenomena of super-
normal communication between the living and of bilocation ; he
brings foward some remarkable and interesting evidence.
The fourth chapter consists of a Summary of Evidence, and here
again some excellent cases are quoted. Finally, in his last chapter
he sums up his arguments.
I express no opinion as to the CAadential value of the cases which
are given, though some are undoubtedly good ; it is the inferences
which he seeks to draw, and his methods of drawing them, which
I feel bound to criticise. This cannot be done in detail within the
scope of a review, but I would like to give a specimen as a sample
of the type of reasoning generally employed. On pages 219 et seq.
he gives a resume of a case wherein a medium is said to have given
veridical information concerning two boys who were drowned and
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
the body of one of them mutilated by a shark. The medium first
held the hand of the mother and obtained only an impression of
the sea and of great distress. He was then given a pocket-book
which had belonged to one of the deceased and at once gave a full
account of the accident in which they lost their lives. Signor Bozzano
remarks " although the medium held the hand of Mrs Browne, the
mother of the dead boys, he did not succeed in revealing anything
concerning their fate ", " this shows that her subconscious had not
perceived the circumstances of the tragedy telepathically ". He
claims that this " circumstance absolutely refutes the hypothesis
that relations . . . would telepath all the vicissitudes of their lives
to their relations ..." and that a sensitive " would extract it from
their subconscious ".
I think that comment is unnecessary ; I know of no grounds for
supposing that the mere holding of the hand constitutes an " open
sesame " to the subconscious mind.
In my opinion the author would have made out a much stronger
case if he had not tried to make it quite so strong. Much of the
book's content is interesting and some is suggestive, but when it is
claimed that the inferences drawn are " rigorously logical deductions
from the facts " I feel bound to demur. H. F. Saltmarsh.
NOTES ON PEEIODICALS
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie (May 1938).
From Paraqmjchology to Mysticism. By Dr P. A. Dietz.
Dr Dietz divides psychic phenomena into three groups :
(1)
Mediumistic, (2) Magic, and (3) Mystic. He disputes the assertion
that telepathy is a temporary intensification of perception by means
of which the percipient obtains access to the " universal conscious-
ness ". He discusses stigmata, telekinesis and the appearance of
phantoms (spontaneous). In the course of his remarks on magic he
refers to the marvels connected with Hatha Yoga and to the works
of Paracelsus. In dealing with Mysticism he makes interesting
references to the subject of the unio mystica as conceived in the West
and the East.
Trance mid Brain-function. By L. J. Franke (Psychiatrist and
Neurologist, Haarlem).
An account of the author's work in electrocephalography with
mediums in trance. The brain appears to be " asleep " in trance.
In clairvoyance, on the contrary, the functions of perception are
intensified.
October 1938 Notes on Periodicals 279
Remarkable Dreams. By Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff.
Dr Tenhaeff gives details of 14 remarkable dreams and concludes
with the observation that dream phenomena such as he describes
cannot be explained by any means as " natural " (naturalistic)
phenomena.
Revue Metaphysique (March-April 1938).
Psychism and Yoga. By Dr Therese Brosse.
Dr Brosse, studying the relation of conscious activity with
psycho-physiological life, visited India for the purpose of investigat-
ing Yoga. She comes to the conclusion that psychic powers have
been " bequeathed to man from the animal " and inhibited in him
by his human individuality. Yoga, she explains, is not a system
directed towards the obtaining of psychic power, but towards the
hberation of the human consciousness (individuality) from organic
restrictions, in order to attain union with the transcendental. She
was able to secure the co-operation of yoghi and to obtain graphs of
their respiration and pulse in states induced during their exercises.
She compares the physiological state of suspended animation, which
enables yoghi to be buried for various periods of time and yet survive,
to the hibernative state of certain animals. Abnormal phenomena
(psychic manifestations) are not in Dr Brosse's view a sign of evolu-
tion towards higher levels in man, since he shares them with animals ;
but his individuality (ego, spu-it), being imperfect or incomplete in
itself, has inhibited the use of them. The individuality (spirit),
attaining to self-mastery, can remove this inhibition.
Hypnotism and ScopocJiloralose. By Dr Pascal.
The author is of opinion that the effects following the injection of
scopochloralose are in part (80 per cent.) due to suggestion. This
drug greatly increases suggestibility. Dr Pascal stresses its useful-
ness before operations and in maternity cases.
THE AUTUMN LECTURES
It has been represented to the Council that some of the papers
read at the Society's meetings or published in Proceedings are
difficult for newly-joined members, or the outside public, to follow
as they require a considerable knowledge of work already done by
the Society. The CouncU have therefore decided to hold two series
of lectures, open to the pubhc, during the autumn, at which a
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1938
general survey will be given both of the past work of the Society
and of the problems on which it is now engaged. A leaflet giving
particulars of the lectures is enclosed, and it is hoped that members
will support the lectures both by taking tickets themselves, and
also by bringing the lectures to the notice of their friends.
THE JOURNAL IS FEINTED FOR FRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 549.—Vol. XXX November 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
IVEBNESDAT, 30th November, igjS, at 5-50 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research
"
BY
Professor C. D. BROAD
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission zui/i be issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
zuill be served from ^.^^ p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Novembeb 1938
NEW MEMBERS
Aitken, L. G., 129 Ralpli Court, Queensway, London, W. 2.
Barber, N, F., M.Sc, The Linlcs, Twickenham Road, Hanworth,
Middx.
Fabian, William, Ph.D., 14 Grosvenor Avenue, Canonbury, London,
N. 5.
Millar, H. B., 79 Dyke Road, Brighton.
Richards, Mrs., 61 Northgate Mansions, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Rothwell, Mrs., The Red Lodge, Crowthorne, Berks.
Thurlow, The Lady, Sedgefield Rectory, Stockton-on-Tees.
Williamson, Miss E. M., Mount Mascal Farm, North Cray, Kent.
Young, A. J., Belmont, Highbury New Park, London, N. 5.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 366th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 12 October 1938, at 4 p.m.. Lord
Charles Hope in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N.,
and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Professor Sigmund Freud, who now that he is resident in England
is no longer eligible as a Corresponding Member, was elected an
Hon. Member of the Society.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 159th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Thursday, 27 October 1938, at 8.30 p.m., Mr W. H.
Salter in the Chair.
A paper entitled " The Contributions of Psychical Research to
Psychotherapeutics " was read by Dr T. W. Mitchell. A discussion
followed, in which Mr N. F. Barber, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Mr A. M. A.
Moore, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo and Dr Ehzabeth Severn
took part. The paper will, it is hoped, be published later in Pro-
ceedings.
November 1938 Case 283
CASE : A FORECAST BY LEONARD COMMUNICATORS
ON THE EUROPEAN CRISIS
Summary
At a Leonard sitting on September 20th, Lady Dewar was told
by her communicators (husband and son) that slie would hoar some-
thing definite in ten days. This was in reply to her guarded question
as to " what they thought of things ".
The communication made the following points :
\. " There will be re-assuring news. . .
."
(Godesberg.)
2. " Then a scare looking like a breakdown. ..."
(It will be agreed that from the 24th September to the 27th there
was a scare. Gas masks were being fitted and distributed, the Fleet
mobilized, and the announcement made that Britain would join
France if the Czechs were attacked.)
3. " Followed again by a strengthening of the Peace move and
what he hopes and believes is safety. . . . You should hear some-
thing definite in ten days. ..."
(It is striking that the Munich Agreement was signed on tlie tenth
day after this sitting—at 1.30 a.m., September 30th.)
" Keep your mind at peace and don't let other people's thoughts
affect you. ... I think you will find it will be as we say, peace for
this country."
Extracts from, a sitting taken by Lady Dewar with
Mrs Leonard, 20th September 1938.
Question : What do you think about things?
Reply :
" Peace will be kept in spite of muddle and trouble some
people try to make—we think we shall do it—if we do, you must
be prepared for a kind of re-organization of political and inter-
national matters on a different scale to any that have been before.
Don't wonder if it is all right, it will be better than war—there is
going to be a re-shufiling of things . . . but, but, we feel that in order
to avert it now, at this very dangerous and critical stage we may
have to pay a price. If people grumble tell them it is better than
the other thing—war. . . . This is not to be done easily but he feels
peace will be kept. I mean peace as far as this country is con-
cerned, but in one or two others there will be local trouble."
Question : When will we know?
Reply :
" There will be a scare in the middle—he gives 10—you
should hear something definite in 10 days—there will be reassuring
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1938
news, then a scare looking like a breakdown, followed again by a
strengthening of the peace move, and what he hopes and believes
is safety. [Feda aside : These old people with shirts is a nuisance!)
They have come to stay, not to be washed out ... all we can do,
unless we want them to lead us into great trouble, is to co-operate
witli them ... it is not a case of minding or not minding, it is a
case of accepting the inevitable. He heard the silly remarks you
heard about being loyal—as if we were letting people down—we
shall suffer more if we are silly. Render unto Caesar the things that
are Caesar's. The lesser of two evils. Steadfast thought and prayer
are necessary on earth. That makes a foundation for us to work
upon. Keep your mind at peace and don't let other people's thoughts
affect you. And he keeps giving 10. Don't forget a scare, a hitch
you might think it. Don't worry. Keep calm and I think you will
find it will be as we say—peace for this country. Help lis with
your thoughts."
Lady Dewar wrote to me on October 8th and I quote below the
relevant passages :
" I think the enclosed extract may interest you. When I asked
the c[uestion I did not expect sucli a detailed answer. I told no
one of the prediction. The ten days is curious, isn't it?
" For four or five days I heard every morning as I woke, '
There
won't l)e a war.' On the 30th I did not get this message but I
heard, '
I told you so.' This came a little later than the previous
messages and I, curiously, didn't connect it until about 8.30 a.m.
my son-in-law called out '
The Munich Agreement is signed '. Not
until then did I connect the '
I told you so '
which was given about
ten minutes earlier.
" I felt there would be no war, luit I had no idea how it was
going to be averted."
As Lady Dewar had not mentioned this prediction till after the
event she sent me the actual notes written by her during the sitting.
With them I have compared the above extract and find it accurate.
C. Drayton Thomas.
CASE : A DREAM SUGGESTING TELEPATHY
This case was sent to, and investigated by, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell,
the sender in the first instance being a Mr R. Mr R.'s son was
bitten by an adder which he had picked up ; tliere was some anxiety
November 1938 Case 285
about the boy's condition, and the same night a Miss F., who was
with the E. family, wrote to her mother describing the incident.
During this night Miss F.'s father had a dream, and told it to his
wife, in which someone had picked up an adder and Mr F. was
trying to call out, " put it down ".
The details of this occurrence will be clear from the correspondence,
of which the relevant portions are printed below. The original
documents are on the S.P.R. files.
Mr R. to Mr Tyrrell. Sept. 11, '38.
I append an account of the facts as I recall them and I am asking
Miss F. and her father to write independently, so that you can check
up on any variations.
The incident took place on Monday, August 15th [1938]. We had
set out for a picnic by bus. The party consisted of my wife, myself,
our two sons aged' 16 and 18, Miss F. and our houseman. We arrived
about 3. There was a foothpath which led to the sea with grassland
on the left side and brambles and heather on the right. I wandered
down to the shore with the boys, while my wife and Miss F. selected
a spot for sketching. We returned about 4. My wife and Miss F.
were then sketching by the footpath. I stayed behind with tlie
younger boy to talk to the houseman. My elder boy joined the
artists. I saw my wife pointing but before I could reach tliem 1 saw
my boy in obvious distress with his finger. He had seen an adder
on a grassy hillock by a gorse bush, flung his handkerchief over it
and grabbed it. My wife called to him to let it go. On releasing
his grasp he was Intten on the third finger of the left hand. We
got a car and rushed him off to hospital. We rang up about 10.30
and learnt that his condition was considerably improved after the
administering of serum. I think these are all the details, but I will
get my wife to confirm.
Postscript by Mrs K.
I confirm the above account, except for the detail that it was the
first finger that was bitten and not the third.
[In reply to a question from Mr Tyrrell, Mr R. notes that the boy
knew the difference between an adder and a grass snake l:)ut did
not take time to look, and had not thought that an adder's l>ite
was dangerous. " Snake hunting ", Mr R. adds, " was not an
objective of the expedition and had not, I think, been mentioned.
As we have never met Mr F., no thought of it could have occurred
to him."]
286 journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1938
Miss F. to Mr Tyrrell. Sept. 14, '38.
Mr R. has told me you would like my account of the snake acci-
dent and also of the dream. It certainly is a curious thing that my
father should have had that dream the night after Mr R.'s son was
bitten.
It was Aug. 15th and the time just before 4 p.m. when we had
taken a jDicnic out on to some heather and grassland. . . . Mrs R.
and I were sitting doing some sketching when her son called out
he had got a snake. I jumped up and rushed to where he was,
about 4 ft. from me, and was horrified to see his hand closed over
the snake which I at once saw was an adder. I shouted to him to
leave it, telling him what kind it was and it would bite him, but
instead he picked it up and was bitten. For that moment the shock
was great as I knew the danger of such a thing. ... I can't remember
thinking of father al^out that time, but that evening I was thinking
of writing home and telling them. I did not do so till next day.
Mother wrote to me on the Wednesday after getting my letter which
I had posted the day before. And the words she used were these :
" A strange thing Monday night, Daddy was making an awful noise
in his sleep and I woke him up and said, '
Whatever were you dream-
ing? '
and he said, '
I thought someone was holding a snake.' I
forget what else he said." Father and I have found telepathy has
taken [place] between us before.
[Miss F., writing four weeks after the event, says here that she
did not write to her parents until Tuesday (Aug. 16), the day after
the incident. Actually her letter, which was kept with its envelope,
appears to have been written (at least in part) the same night, and
posted next day. The envelope is postmarked 2.15 on the 16th.
An extract follows.]
Miss F. to Mrs F. Letter dated " Monday even."
I had every intention of writing early and posting to-night but
I'm afraid it has been impossible. [The afternoon's expedition is
then mentioned and the letter proceeds :] T. . . . called out he had
caught a snake—and he was holding in his hand an enormous adder.
I shouted to him to drop it and he still held on and then he was
bitten. Well, I have no time now to tell you all details except he
is very ill in hospital and serum has been sent from London. Good-
ness knows what's going to happen. Everyone is so miserable, I
have been sitting with Mrs R. till nearly 12 and now I've come to
bed.
I will think of you at 2 a.m.
NOVEMBEB 1938 Case 287
Mr F. to Mr Tyrrell. Sept. 19, '38.
During the night of Monday Aug. 15th I had a most vivid dream
—I dreamed that someone, I don't know who, had picked up an
adder and was holding it in his left hand. I only saw his hand and
part of his sleeve and some grass in the background. I was en-
deavouring to say " put it down, put it down " and made such a
noise that I awakened my wife, who in turn roused me. She asked
me what was the matter, and I said that I dreamed that someone
picked up an adder.
I cannot say at what time in the night I had the dream, but it
was quite dark. I had no reason to think of snakes and cannot
remember ever having dreamed of them before.
It was not until the following Wednesday, Aug. 17th, that we
received the news—I enclose in original my daughter's letter [quoted
in the preceding section of this report]. " I will think of you at
2 a.m." had no reference to the adder, but to something that my
wife had told her—but this in itself is rather curious.
I have had other curious dreams—as I suppose most people have
—but not one that I could definitely connect with an actual event
of which I had no knowledge at the time. I have, however, had
several rather curious experiences—one with my daughter—which
might be attributed to telepathy.
I do feel that this experience is rather unique. I should have
thought that the telepathic message, if there is such a thing, was
conveyed to me while my daughter was writing to her mother.
[Before Mr Tyrrell had known of this letter, he had suggested that
the dream could have arisen from a delayed telepathic impression,
received at the time of the accident.]
I enclose a statement from my wife which corroborates what I
have said.
Mrs F. to Mr Tyrrell. {Enclosed with the preceding letter.)
I only remember my husband making an awful moaning and
groaning in his sleep and I said, " Whatever is the matter? " He
rephed, " I thought someone was holding an adder." I replied,
" Whatever makes you dream about a snake "
—this very irritably!
—as it seemed that I had only just got off to sleep.
We did not mention it again until I read my daughter's letter,
on the following Wednesday morning, to my husband. He then
said, " It was funny my dreaming about an adder."
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1938
COKKESPONDENCE
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell's comments on my criticisms of liis
experiments call for brief rejolies :
(1) Mr Tyrrell's early experiments with his pointer apparatus
are certainly not tests in Pure Telepathy, but the same objections
apply to them as to Dr Rhine's experiments in Pure Telepathy
and it was for that reason I classed them hastily under the same
heading. But Mr Tyrrell's pointer method has the additional
disadvantage that since the experimenter sees what the subject
has done after each trial he may unconsciously vary and adjust
his own position habits to accord with the particular schemes
which the subject is using at the moment. I repeat that in such
cases the true mean chance expectation is not even approximately
known. It is no answer for Mr Tyrrell to employ a thoroughly
unsound statistical method and then try to convince his readers
by arguments on other grounds that his results are due to extra-
sensory perception. He ought never to have used the method in
the first place.
(2) I am at a complete loss to understand why Mr Tyrrell should
decide beforehand that on certain days the results are not to be
counted. If the day's work is not to be published surely there is
little point in doing the experiments on such days. If, as he
maintains. Miss Johnson is encouraged by being told that the bad
results are not to be published she must experience an equal
measure of discouragement when she obtains good results and
these have to be ignored. By using such a practice Mr Tyrrell is
simply not making a full statistical use of all his data. Surely
Mr Tyrrell ought in a scientific report to give us a complete and
systematic statistical analysis of the whole of his results? We
require something beyond an elementary application of the
formula Jnfq. Any schoolboy could give us as much as this.
(3) May I ask Mr Tyrrell if Miss Johnson's miraculous feat of
scoring 1841 successes in some 7800 trials was witnessed by any
competent experimenter in addition to himself ? I have failed to
find any record of such witnesses. Speaking purely for myself I
slioidd not have the temerity to publish such a claim on the mere
strength of being able to produce a piece of tape. If I was unable
to obtain similar results in the presence of competent observers
I should—unlike Mr Tyrrell—prefer to remain silent. I can at least
November 1938 Correspondence 289
maintain that my own experimental work has been done in the
presence of witnesses and under conditions which have some claim
to be called scientific. Results which cannot be produced in the
presence of competent witnesses again and again have in my
opinion no place in experimental science, whatever value they may
possess for the individual experimenter.
(4) It is surely not up to me to produce extra-chance results with
Mr Tyrrell's electrical apparatus. It is rather for Mr Tyrrell to
demonstrate to me practically that Miss Johnson can actually
produce such results under unimpeachable conditions. In other
words I should require to witness the actual production of success-
ful results which is another matter from merely inspecting the
apparatus. I say that this is not a matter of beUef or disbehef of
Mr Tyrrell's own assurances ; it is a deeper question of scientific
principle. Let us grant that Mr Tyrrell cannot guarantee that his
miracles (for miracles they are in the light of present-day psycho-
logical knowledge) will occur at a given sitting. Well, I hope I am
reasonable and I should be willing to watch patiently at a dozen
sittings in the expectation of seeing something definitely abnormal.
In fact if Miss Johnson can demonstrate clairvoyance on a one in
ten thousand chance using a sequence of numbers chosen by myself
from Tippett's random tables and dispensing with the com-
mutator, and succeeds in the presence of either Mr Whateley
Carington and myself or Mr Oliver Gatty and myself, I will gladly
pay twenty pounds to any organisation that Mr Tyrrell cares to
suogest. I can hardly speak fairer than that.
Yours faithfully, S. G. Soal.
Mr Tyrrell writes : Mr Soal has not answered my questions ;
but, with regard to his points : (1) The rough proof that the proba-
bility of success with the Pointer Apparatus is very close to one-
fifth is that most of the subjects, who were tried with it, scored
chance results with calculations based on that assumption. The
method was admittedly imperfect : that is why I made the
Electrical Apparatus. But I maintain that Miss Johnson's results
were so high that Mr Soal's suggestion does not come anywhere
near to being a reasonable explanation of them.
(2) I suppose that Mr Soal's preference for mass-methods, in
which he never studies a sensitive subject, is the cause of his asking
tvhij I sometimes decide beforehand to do experiments which are
excluded from the general results. If low spirits, ill-health or any
other cause makes it likely that the subject will not score, it is
wise to do uncounted experiments until the score begins to rise. If
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1938
you count these, the subject knows that chance-results are piUng
up, and this knowledge inhibits success. If you simply wait, you
will never know when to begin again. It seems incredible that Mr
Soal should have plodded through all the work he has without
having discovered these things. But that is beside the point. I
asked Mr Soal on what grounds he objected to my deciding not to
count certain results beforehand. He has not answered. Presumably
he knows that there is no statistical objection to doing this. If
there is, I should be glad if any expert will tell me what it is.
Presumably, also, Mr Soal knows that the formula Jwpq is quite
adequate to decide whether the results quoted in the present case
are above significance or not. This point he evades.
(3) I have no objection to the presence of witnesses, if they do
not upset the delicate conditions necessary for success. The
difficulty is a practical one. Since one cannot work to predeter-
mined times, witnesses would have to live in the house in which the
experiments were carried out, in order to be on the spot when
required ; and this is impracticable. There were no witnesses of the
experiments referred to in my last letter : but there are the tape
records. If these are not accepted as evidence, the only inference
is that I must have fraudulently concocted them ; and to this, no
answer of mine is of any avail.
(4) It would certainly be convenient if we could lay it down that
at least one of a given series of sittings, predetermined as to dates
and witnesses, must certainly give positive results, if it be true
that the subject possesses any extra-sensory faculty. Unfor-
tunately, experience shows that this is what cannot be done—at
least, with the present subject. The thing is far too elusive to
guarantee. I gather that Mr Soal insists that E.S.P. must be
guaranteeable if it is to be scientifically demonstrable. But that is
to force conditions upon the phenomenon—a thing which is the
very antithesis of scientific method. It is no good saying " must "
or " ought " to nature. That is how King Canute got his feet wet!
I regret that Mr Soal has failed to answer the questions which I
put to him in order to clarify his criticisms of my work. In view of
this, I feel constrained to reiterate my protest against the tenden-
tious type of criticism, which the author of it, having spread it
abroad, cannot justify when the points are made specific.
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
(This discussion is now closed. Arrangements have for some time
been in train, and are in process of completion, whereby Miss
Johnson may be able to participate in experiments with apparatus
November 1938 Notes an Periodicals 291
set up at the S.P.R. Rooms, the experiments being under the
superintendence of the Research Officer.
—
Ed.)
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metaphysique (May-June, 1938).
The Objectivity or Subjectivity of Supernormal Manifestations
perceived collectively. By C. de Vesme.
The late author, in this, the first of two articles on his subject,
dealt with : collective crystal \'ision ;
manifestations perceived
simultaneously by a human and an animal ;
collective ^dsions of
phantoms of the living, and deliberate projections of personahty
resulting in phantoms seen by several persons simultaneously.
In some cases natural explanations of the phenomena are suggested,
in others only the facts are recorded.
Revue Metajihysique (July-October, 1938).
In a second article on the above subject the author dealt with
apparitions of the dead, citing, amongst others, the MacQueen
case (S.P.R. Journal, Jan. 1894, pp. 179-181). He then dealt
with collective auditory phenomena, tactile and olfactory pheno-
mena, and spontaneous telekinesis (poltergeist cases). After a brief
reference to visions of the future, the article concludes with an
expression of assurance that we shall know more about these
things when we gain a better knowledge of the powers of our
subliminal selves.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie.
A Well Attested Case of Proscopy. By Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff.
The wife of a house-painter came to the author asking for help
in connection with her mediumistic faculties. She had been treated
for ' nerves ". She imparted to him thereafter by letter a dream
which she had of an automobile accident, giving minute details.
The letter was written "27.11.37. Prince Bernhard of the Nether-
lands met with his accident on 29.11.37 and the details corresponded.
Helene Smith and Sanskrit.
A possible explanation of an instance of
'
" glossolaly " by this
historic mediimi.
Remarkable Dreams. By Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff.
A number of remarkable dreams in which tasks, found impossible
in a waking state, were successfully completed. [An arithmetical
problem, a fugue on a given theme, etc.]
H. K.
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1938
We are indebted to Mr G. Zorab, a Dutch member of the Society,
for the following correction of an error in the " Notes on Periodi-
cals " printed in our last issue :
" The reviewer of the Dutch S.P.E. periodical Tijdschrift voor
Parapsychologie (May 1938) in our Journal of October 1938 has not
completely grasped—probably owing to the difficulties of the
Dutch language—the gist of what the experiments of the psychia-
trist L. J. Franke on Trance and Brain Function have revealed.
" Instead of the brain being '
asleep " in trance, as the writer of
the '
Notes on Periodicals '
{Journal, p. 278) assumes, it is, on the
contrary, more than normally awake and active in this condition,
as the braking and regulating influence of the thalamus or brain-
stem seems to be abolished. This same condition of greater activity
of the greater brain can be observed whenever there is a lowering
of the threshold (limen) of consciousness or any other trance-like
condition, as, for instance, during clairvoyance, telepathy, psy-
chometry. hypnosis, etc."
OBITUARY
Miss V. Warren-
We learn with great regret of the death of Miss V. Warren, who
held a provisional appointment as Research Secretary since the
spring of this year. She brought able and careful work to the
methodical tasks which are the basis of research, and gave every
promise of becoming a valuable officer of the Society. Her loss
will be much felt by all who knew her as a colleague.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaming this privacy.
No. 550.—Vol. XXX December 1938
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
FORTHCOMING MEETING
There will be no Meeting of the Society in December. The Research
Ofl&cer, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, will, it is hoped, speak at a Meeting on
25 January 1939, upon recent work carried out by the Society.
NEW MEMBERS
Elected 12 October 1938
Borland, Dr Douglas M., 26 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Borland, Mrs D. M., 26 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Elected 30 November 1938
Bamford, Dr C. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bendit, Dr Laurence J., 41 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Esler, Dr A. R., Datchet, Bucks.
Fodor, Dr Nandor, 191 Park West, London, W. 2.
Harmsworth, Mrs Desmond, 13 Hyde Park Gardens, London, W. 2.
Marten, Mrs Humphrey, 2 Carlton Hill, Exmouth.
Muir Mackenzie, Miss E„ 44 Acacia Road, London, N.W. 8.
Payne, Miss Phoebe D., 14 Lansdowne Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 20.
Wedd, Dr N., King's College, Cambridge.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 367th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 November 1938, at 3.45 p.m.,
Lord Charles Hope in the Chair. There were also present
:
u
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1938
Professor C. D. Broad, Mr W. Wliately Caringtoii, Miss Ina Jephson,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, the
Eev. C. Drayton Thomas, and Miss Nea Walker ; also Mr C. V. C,
Herbert, Research Officer, Mr Kenneth Eichmond, Editor of the
Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
PROFESSOR WILLIAM McDOUGALL
The Council has learned with much regret of the death of Professor
William McDougall, a member of Council, and former President of
the Society. An obituary will appear later. In a letter to the Hon.
Secretary, written a few weeks before his death. Professor McDougall
concluded with a valedictory message which the Council decided
should be communicated to the Society.
Professor McDougall wrote as follows :
" I take this opportunity to say goodbye to all my friends on the
Council of the Society and to express my great regret that I have not
been able to do more to promote the work both in America and
Great Britain. The small bulk and value of my contributions by
no means represent fairly the importance which seems to me
properly to attach to all good work in this field. Whatever the
ultimate outcome is to be, it has been a privilege to be associated,
continuously and through so many years, with a group of persons
who have shown themselves so well able to sustain the high standard
of critical judgment combined with openness to all new possibilities
which was the absolutely indispensable condition of all useful work
in psychical research. And if I may feel that I have contributed
something, however small, toward the maintenance of that so rare
combination, I shall be well satisfied."
PRIVATE MEETING
The 160th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 30 November 1938, at 5.30 p.m.. Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research " was
read by Professor C. D. Broad. A discussion followed, in which
Mr Besterman, Dr Fodor, Mr Herbert and Mr Richmond took part.
The paper is pubhshed in the accompanying Part of Proceedings.
December 1938 Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception 295
SOME EARLY EXPERIMENTS PROVIDING APPARENTLY
POSITIVE EVIDENCE FOR EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
As reported in the Journal for July last Mr Whately Carington on the
29 Jiine 1938 read a paper with the above title ; the following is an
abridgment of his paper.
Some months ago, it had occurred to huxi that it might be worth
while to review the more important quantitative experunents on
E.S.P. of relatively early date. He had been prompted to do this
partly by Prof. Thouless' discussion of Prof. Coover's work, in which
he showed that the results obtained were clearly not attributable to
chance, as Coover had affirmed, and partly because he felt it was high
time to ascertain what solid foundation, if any, there was for the
comparatively widespread belief in the alleged phenomena of tele-
pathy and clairvoyance. It seemed to him that this behef rested
almost entirely on anecdotal material which, however striking, could
never supply the requisite combination of leak-proof conditions,
positive results and the possibility of deciding on the hkehhood
of those results being due to chance, although it might provide a
valuable stimulus to research or illuminate the nature of the pro-
cess at work. He accordingly determined to concentrate entirely
on experiments which were either designedly quantitative in the
first instance, or, as in a few cases, provided results which could
be subjected to quantitative treatment by methods not available
at the time the work was done. His remarks were in the nature of
a provisional and interim account of what he had found.
A great deal of pseudo-quantitative material had to be rejected
altogether on the ground of manifestly imperfect conditions or
suspicion of fraud. He had also fought shy, on principle, of all cases
in which enthusiasts had reported results of astronomical improba-
biUty obtained under conditions only sketchily described, even when
those conditions were apparently good enough to exclude normal
means of cognition. He had been chiefly interested either in cases
such as those of Coover or Troland in which the experimenter
.
reported as negative results which were demonstrably positive, or
in those where some feature of the data quite miremarked by the
experimenter at the time—such as progressive improvement or
deterioration with time, or abnormally low scoring—could be shown
to depart significantly from what we should expect if chance alone
were at work.
This kind of thing, provided it was of a character which could
not plausibly be ascribed to faulty conditions of experiment, was
very much more convincing than more showy and spectacular
U 2
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1938
results, as it was difficult to imagine that even the most depraved
experimenter or percipient, or both in collusion, would take the
trouble to fake an elaborate set of data—and then omit to claim
credit for the apparently paranormal results shown by them.
Coover's work was the classical example of this kind of evidence.
He evidently suffered from a singularly strong resistance to admitting
evidence in favour of E.S.P., and declared in the strongest terms that
his results showed no trace of anything beyond chance. Actually,
the odds were some thousands to one against chance alone being
responsible for them ; but it would be quite unreasonable to suppose
that he first falsified his figures in an anti-chance sense, and then
exercised a perverted ingenuity to attribute them to chance.
We might accordingly accept his figures without appreciable re-
serve, and since they could not plausibly be ascribed to chance, the
only question that remained was whether they were due to unwitting
leakage of information through normal channels, to faulty experi-
mental methods, or to dehberate malpractice on the part of the
students. On the whole, the internal evidence strongly contra-
indicated all these possibihties. The more one went into the
figures the more difficult it became to account for them on these
lines. Prof. Burt had estimated the combined chance of their being
fortuitous at no more than about 1 in 50,000, and some of the
features observed, such as the correlations between different types
of success under the different conditions, seemed almost impossible
to ascribe to leakage or cheating.
In some respects an even more interesting example of the same
kind of thing was afforded by the work of Dr Troland, who carried
Coover's disregard of the desires of benefactors to a point which
could only be described as audaciously callous. Like Coover, he
attempted to investigate telepathy—or, more strictly, mixed extra-
sensory perception—and hke him announced that he could find no
indication of it. But Coover did at least collect some 12,000 odd
relevant observations and wrote 641 pages of mingled text and
tables, while Troland seemed to think that honour would be satisfied
with no more than 605 trials—say ten hours' work—and 26 pages of
print.
His technique was very different from that of Coover. Instead of
using cards or Lotto blocks, he devised a special apparatus in which
the agent peered into a kind of box at the back of which was arranged
a permanent bright spot of fight, or " fixation point ", to the right
or left of which an illuminated patch was caused to appear from time
to time by means of an independent mechanical device. The per-
cipient's business was to indicate—also by means of a mechanical
Decembee 1938 Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception 297
arrangement—whether he had the impression that the patch was
on the right or the left. Elaborate precautions, probably quite
adequate, were taken to prevent the percipient getting any clue by
normal means as to which was the case, while the alternation of right
and left was secured by means of a specially designed " stimulus
shuffler " intended to give a truly random series of the two stimuh.
The results showed an appreciable, but not significant, tendency
to score too low ;
actually, 284 successes were recorded against a true
expectation of 300 which would occur by chance about as often as
once in six such experiments, but the deficit was confined entirely to
one category of trial, namely that in which the impression period was
15 seconds, whereas the other category Math a 30-second period
shows a shght excess of right guesses. The deficiency of 21 successes
below expectation in the short period category was intrinsically
significant, to the extent of less than one chance in 36, while the
contrast between the two categories would only occur by chance
about once in twenty such experiments.
These facts alone were sufficient to make it fairly clear that some
non-chance factor was at work, but they were further supported by
the very well-marked tendency for the degree of success to deteriorate
as from the earlier sittings to the later. This gave odds better than
50 to 1 for the two percipients who were involved taken together
and better than 100 to 1 for Dr Troland himself alone. Thus,
whichever way we took the data, there was at worst a very honest
50 to 1 chance against their being a fortuitous product.
We had then in this case an investigator, who was evidently
heavily biassed against finding anything suggestive of non-normal
effects, taking every precaution that ingenuity could devise against
the operation of sensory cues, yet bringing off, so to say, a fifty to
one shot as a result of so trifling a sample as six himdred trials.
Mr Carington then referred to the work of Dr Estabrooks carried
out at Harvard in 1925-26, which appeared to have been of good
quahty and had certainly provided some extremely interesting
results.
Dr Estabrooks worked with college students guessing ordinary
playing cards and, for the purposes of this discussion, his experi-
ments might be divided into two groups.
In the first which was made up of 83 sets of 20 guesses each,
agents and percipients were in the two halves of a double room
separated by double closed doors. Dr Estabrooks said that the
inner room, which the percipient occupied, was " relatively sound-
proof ", but added that " noises such as the scraping of a chair, or
loud talking, can ... be distinctly heard between the two rooms
"
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decbmbeb 1938
and lie " does not wish in any way to stress tlie point of these rooms
being insulated from each other as regards sound ". Still, it did
not seem very likely that, in such an experiment, either Dr Esta-
brooks or the other agents who from time to time assisted him
would enunciate the names of the cards sufficiently loudly to be heard
through the doors. An electrical signalling device was used to in-
struct the percipient when to record a guess, and Dr Estabrooks
seemed to have been keenly alive to the necessity of making sure
that these signals could not form the basis of an imconscious code
from which the percipient could deduce the nature of the card.
The results of this group of experiments were overwhelmingly
positive. In 1,660 trials, 938 guesses were correct as to colour
against an expectation of 830—a result which would occur by chance
only about once in every ten milhon such experiments. The degree
of success in guessing the suit—which, of course, meant the colour
also—was not quite so spectacular, but still a good deal better
than was needed to give odds of 100 to 1 against chance. The first
ten cards always gave better results than the second ten, which to
some extent militated against the hypothesis of normal leakage.
Mr Carington said he would pass on to the fourth series which
produced very much more interesting figures. This series consisted
of 32 rims of 20 guesses each, and the important point was that, in
this case, agents and percipients were m rooms about 60 feet apart,
with four closed doors between them. He thought we might safely
take it that sensory cues were effectively excluded under these
conditions.
The results were described as " wholly negative ", but this was
misleading. Some of the scores were significantly below chance
;
and this was a convenient point to discuss what the appearance of
below-chance scores involved. In time past it had commonly but
erroneously been supposed that such scores are merely " negative ",
in the sense that they indicated no more than a failure to cognize
the card or other object by non-normal means, or at most that they
indicated an " inhibition " of the cognitive ability concerned. This
was not the case. The appearance of a significant below-chance
score indicated the operation of some non-chance factor just as
emphatically as did an equal above-chance score ; the only question
was that of the nature of the factor so indicated.
The explanation, which applied to any mode of cognition, normal
or non-normal, was straightforward enough once it was pointed out.
It was simply this : that if, for whatever reason, first thoughts are
right, then second thoughts must be wrong. If, by whatever means,
he (Mr Carington) correctly obtained the impression that the card
December 1938 Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception
he was required to guess was, say, the King of Hearts, and then
hesitated, changed his mind, and wrote down something else, his
final guess must inevitably be wrong. Thus, a significant below-
chance score might result from the combmation of correct un-
pressions with lack of confidence. The source of the impressions
was not relevant to the issue, though they must obviously be
of a sufiiciently faint or vague character to admit of doubt. It
followed that the appearance of a significant below-chance score, as
in that case, did not enable us to exclude sensory cues imperfectly
picked up ; but it did virtually enable us to exclude fraud. We
were left with the alternative of supposing that, despite a distance
of 60 feet and four closed doors, sensory cues were yet operative
to a significant extent.
The possibihty of biassed guessing on the part of the percipients
corresponding to biassed selection of the cards seemed to have been
effectively excluded by Dr Estabrooks having scored each guess, as
a check, against the card drawn five places later ;
and he also seemed
to have examined carefully the general composition of the selected
cards and the manner m which the different colours and suits
followed one another.
Mr Carington said he would be sorry to say that this case proved
anything more than that some sort of non-chance factor was
operative ; at the same time, it did seem quite unusually difficult
to attribute the results to any of the ordmary causes, so that it
appeared to offer correspondingly strong prima facie evidence m
favour of whatever it was that we referred to when we spoke of
E.S.P.
He then proceeded to discuss a case, which he said was unique m
the annals of Psychical Research ;
the experiments on " wilUng
"
carried out at Groningen in the summer of 1919 by the late Professor
Heymans, Dr (now Professor) Brugmans, and Dr Wynberg. So far
as he was aware, there was no adequate account of these experiments
available in Enghsh ; his own account was based on earher accounts
m Dutch, German and French, supplemented by a special pilgrunage
to Groningen in November 1937.
Only one percipient, a student of the University of Groningen
named van Dam, was tested. This gentleman had shown a remark-
able abihty for reproducing in private the pubhc performances of the
well-known professional Rubini, and the experiments were devised
with the object of enabhng this ability to be studied m a quantitative
manner imder substantially test conditions.
The subject was always blindfolded, was seated in a kind of three-
sided box, open only at the rear, and in addition was screened by
Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1938
curtains from any considerable vision of the room in which he sat.
Actually, these precautions were not relevant to the essential
issues involved, but were mentioned for the sake of completeness.
In front of hun was a rectangular board, measuring about 16 in.
by 12 in., divided into 48 squares of about 2 in. side, arranged in
six roAvs and eight columns. The columns were lettered from A to
H, and the rows numbered from 1 to 6. The task of the percipient
was not to guess one of these numbers in the ordinary sense, but to
indicate by pointing which of them had been selected by the experi-
menter. The process of selection was by drawing one each of eight
lettered and six numbered cards provided for the purpose, which
were shuffled before each trial.
It was obvious that the a priori chance of success was 1 in 48 ;
that was to say, if nothuag but chance were at work, we should -
expect an average of one success in about 48 trials. Actually, there
were 60 successes in the rather small number of 187 trials—a result
which led to odds of the hyper-astronomical order against the
operation of chance alone.
About half the trials were conducted with the experimenters in the
same room as the subject, and the remainder with them in the room
above, from which they observed through a doubly glazed opening
cut in the floor. In the latter case it was a matter of no importance
whether the subject could see the board or not, for seeing it would not
tell him what letter and number had been drawn ; the trials in two
rooms wwe slightly more successful than those in one and, by them-
selves, showed results of fantastic significance.
It was well to consider with some particularity what took place
in the course of these two-room trials. The subject was seated in
the lower room with the squared board in front of him. In the upper
room were the experimenters, of whom at least two were always
present. One of these—the " leader ", as he was termed—drew a
lettered card and a numbered card—say G and 4—and, looking
through the doubly glazed hole, " willed " the subject to move his
hand to the selected square, G4, m row 4 and column G. The signal
for the subject to start his search was given by striking on the floor
with a hammer, for the double glazing of the hole precluded verbal
instruction ;
and when the subject felt that he was " on the spot
"
he signalled by tapping twice with his middle finger on the chosen
area.
It was certain, humanly speaking, that the subject had no means
of knowing in any normal fashion which cards had been drawn
—
that is to say, which square had been chosen. Certainly he could
not see them, even if the bhndfolding, the box and the curtains were
December 1938 Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception
ineffective ;
it was quite incredible that subconscious whispering
by the " leader
"—which must have been so faint as to escape the
notice of the other experunenters—should be audible to the subject
through a doubly glazed hole, sound-proof enough to prevent verbal
communication of any ordinary kind.
As against this, two glaruigly obvious sources of error presented
themselves to anyone famihar with this type of work. In the first
place, the assumption that the true chance of success was 1 in 48 is
extremely dangerous, for it depended on the prior assumptions that
either the subject's movements or the drawing of the cards, or both,
were truly random ; and both these were contrary to experience.
The subject was clearly more hkely either naturally to favour, or
perhaps conscientiously to avoid, the area of the board within
easiest range of his hand ; while imphcit rehance on theoretical
expectation was unlikely to be justified in practice, as regards
shufiled cards m such small numbers.
In the second place there was the possibihty of the experimenter
unwittingly giving a " STOP! " signal, when the subject's finger
reached the right place. Even with experimenters in a different
room, changes of position, or shifting of weight on a sufficiently
creaky floor, would be all that would be necessary for the required
effect.
It was with these two points chiefly in mind that he had visited
Groningen last November ; he fully expected to find either that
the true expectation of success, owing to preferential movements
of the subject and drawing of the cards, had been far in excess of the
theoretical, or else that the experiments had been conducted in
hghtly constructed buildings favouring the transmission of unwitting
" Stop " signals of the type suggested.
Through the great courtesy of Professor Brugmans, he was per-
mitted not only to view the scene of the experiments, but also to
work through all the original note-books and thus to compute the
true expectation of success from the actual data. To summarise
the outcome of his investigation in a few words, he found that the
true expectation of success was neghgibly different from the theoreti-
cal, while the floor dividing the two rooms was of a most uncom-
promisiag sohdity.
The upper room was on the ground floor, and the lower in a sort
of half-basement, of one of the main University buildings. The
separating floor was of manifestly stout construction—something
like inch planks, laid on 9 or 10-inch joists spaced at about 14 inches,
between two of which the observation hole had been cut, and with at
least lath and plaster on the under side. At the time of the experi-
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1938
ment the planking was bare, but " a thick mat " was provided for
the " leader " to stand on—a circumstance which suggests that the
possibihty of auditory cues being transmitted to the subject was not
overlooked. He had carefully discussed the possibility of " Stop
signals " with Prof. Brugmans who remained convinced that
nothing of the kind could have occurred. Moreover, the internal
evidence offered very strong evidence against the " Stop signal
"
hypothesis.
In about one-sixth of the trials, the subject was given a dose of
alcohol before the session : under these conditions he scored no less
than 22 successes in 29 trials. This gives prodigious odds against
chance ; but so, of course, does the experiment as a whole, and also
the trials in which nothing was given. The interesting point was
that the " alcoholic " trials were very significantly more successful
than the ordinary—to the tune of about ten million to one against
chance. In order to maintain the " Stop signal " hypothesis,
therefore, we must suppose not only that unwitting signals were
given, but that they were given more often, or more effectively,
when alcohohc trials were in progress than when they were not
;
or else that the effect of alcohol was greatly to lower the subject's
auditory threshold, not a usual effect of the drug.
Another 24 trials were conducted with the subject under the
influence of bromide, and these, though significantly less successful
than those with alcohol (about 30 to 1), were significantly more so
than those in which nothing was given at all (about 78 to 1). Thus
we are forced to suppose that the unwitting signals were graded to a
significant extent as between ordinary occasions, bromide occasions
and alcohol occasions. Mr Carington thought that the experiments,
though not conclusive, afforded very strong prima facie evidence
in favour of the operation of some non-normal cause.
The last piece of work to be discussed was that of Usher and Burt
carried out in 1907 and pubhshed in the Annates des Sciences
Psychiques for 1910. This work, though old, had features which
made it of remarkable interest ; on the whole it was, perhaps, the
most convincing case he knew.
Its importance lay in the fact that agent and percipient were not
merely in two different rooms, or even in two different buildings,
but in two different towns ; in one set of trials London and Bristol,
in another London and Prague. This circumstance relieved us of the
necessity of worrying about the possibihty of " leakage " through
normal sensory channels and allowed us to concentrate on other
factors in the situation. The investigators were chiefly interested
in the transmission of diagrams, but they did a certain number of
December 1938 Evidence for Extra-8ensory Perception 303
trials with playing cards of which full results for thirty trials, on
six days, between London and Bristol, were given. Among these
thirty trials there was only one complete success ; or two if an alter-
native guess on the seventh trial was admitted.
Two successes in thirty trials was not exciting, but a very different
state of affairs was revealed when we took the partial successes into
account by applying Prof. Fisher's method of scoring. This was
first done, as regards the first 25 guesses, by Mr Soal in the preamble
to his well-known report on Experiments in Supernormal Percep-
tion, in Proc. XL. He gave odds of about 33 to 1 against chance
for these, and dismissed the result as " suggestive, but of course,
not conclusive " ; but this was evidently partly due to a lapsus
calami, for his own figures indicated a better than 50 to 1 probabihty.
Moreover, the last 5 guesses were above-average successful ; so Mr
Carington thought it worth while to re-open the question with a fresh
analysis. In doing this he had credited each double guess with the
mean score of its two components, and had omitted altogether one
attempt in which " no guess " was recorded. He obtained a mean
value of 17-29 points per guess, against 11-18 expected, and the
probability of this occiixring by chance alone was only 1 in 459.
Moreover, there was a very marked tendency for the degree of suc-
cess to fall off with time ; the probability of this being due to chance
was no more than 1 in 544. Finally, there was a perceptible, but
not intrinsically significant, upward twist, so to say, of the scores
at the end ; this might occur so often as once in eight such experi-
ments as a result of chance alone.
Combining these figures, he found that the overall chance of the
figures being fortuitous was less than 1 in 11,000.
The expermienters themselves were principally interested in
the transmission of diagrams, and in their paper they reproduced
47 pairs of drawings—one by the agent, and one by the percipient
purporting to correspond therewith, in each case. All these were
long-distance trials—between London and Bristol, and between
London and Prague. The question was whether there is more
correspondence between them than chance alone was hkely to give ;
whether the percipients' reproductions were, on the whole, signi-
ficantly more like the diagrams they were intended to resemble than
they were like those they were not intended to resemble.
This question was not very easy to answer, but he had devised a
plan which seemed to him satisfactory, and Mr Herbert had recently
been putting it into practice. The procedure was as follows.
Both series of drawings—that is to say, the series of originals
and the series of would-be reproductions—were given randomised
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1938
code numbers. Then pairs of pairs were again drawn at random,
so as to obtain sets of four drawings eacli consisting of two originals
and the two corresponding attempts at reproduction. These were
submitted to a judge, who was asked to indicate which reproduction
he thought belonged to which original. He knew, of pourse, which
were the originals and which the reproductions, but not which of the
latter was intended for which of the former. Thus, if there were no
intrinsic similarity to guide him, he would be as likely to match them
wrongly as rightly ; so that we should expect, on the average, to
find that half the sets of four were correctly paired off and the other
half incorrectly. So far, 11 judges had tried their skill, with the
result that 9 correctly matched more than 50 per cent, of the sets,
and 2 less ; the total judgments showed 144 correct and 105 in-
correct. Thus there was a distinct tendency for drawings to be
correctly allocated more often than considerations of chance would
indicate ;
the probabilities are about 1 in 37 if we reckon by judges
and better than 1 in 50 if we reckon by total points.
The method seemed a promising way of dealing with otherwise
inassessable material, and the outcome in this case served, so far as
it went, to support the view that some kind of non-normal cognition
was operative.
But the card results were quite capable of standing alone ; odds
of 11,000 to 1 would not be overset even by the complete failure of a
different type of experiment. There was no doubt of the results
being positive ;
there could be no question of sensory cues ; it
would be ridiculous to attribute the figures obtained to chance ;
and he did not see how even the most intransigeant critic could
suggest that the experimenters carefully faked their results in such
a way that the effects could only be revealed by a technique which
was not invented till some seventeen years later.
It would be prudent to sum up on a note of mingled warning and
encouragement. He had tried to show that a careful study of certain
published experiments indicated without any doubt at all that
causes other than chance were operative. That was not the same
as to conclude that they were due to some paranormal faculty of
transcendental significance. To cite a classical example, the late
Prof. Karl Pearson concluded from a study of certain figures pub-
lished in the journal Monaco that " roulette as played at Monte
Carlo is not a game of chance ". This was a complete non sequitur,
not because his methods were faulty or his calculations inaccurate,
but because he permitted himself the somewhat naive assumption
that the published figures correctly represented the sequence of
events at the table.
December 1938 Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception 305
In the same way, when evidently non-chance results in guessing
cards or the like were presented to us, the proper initial inference
was rather that the percipient was after all, able to obtain informa-
tion by normal means, than that he was capable of seeing through
the back of a card. It was only when the possibihty of obtaining
information normally had been definitely excluded, or when the
results were of a nature unlikely to be produced even if there were
leakage of this kind, that we are entitled even to suggest " para-
normal " explanations.
It was for these reasons that he had eschewed all sjDectacular and
patently unreliable work, ancient and modern ahke, and had dealt
almost exclusively with stones that the builders had rejected as not
conforming to their preconceived design. The result, it seemed to
him, was a body of evidence which, if not completely coercive, at
least established an incontrovertible case for further and more
meticulous uivestigation.
REVIEW
Ghosts and ApjMritions. By W. H. Salter. Bell (" Psychical
Experiences " Series). 3s. 6d.
" Ghost as Mr Salter observes in his Introduction, is not " a
term of art in psychical research ". The meaning of the word has
no proper boundaries. Dr Godwin Baynes confines it with some
success to productions, possibly veridical, of the collective uncon-
scious. In the public mind, which this series should do something
to enlighten, the ghost is something to " believe in " or not—m the
latter case, something to disbelieve in without prejudice to a
Christmas appetite for ghost stories. This is, after all, a foundation
upon which to base an attitude of critical interest.
Ghosts and apparitions, as a popular grouping of phenomena that
attract wide interest and a higher standard of dramatic narration
than of fidelity to observed fact, furnish a special opportunity to
the promoter of sound discrimination in psychical matters, and Mr
Salter's collection of cases has risen to the occasion with threefold
effect. The cases reflect, of course, the standards of authenticity
and attestation which the Society has always maintained ;
they
form a particularly interesting selection ; and they appear to cover
every important area in an irregular and heterogeneous field. This
last point has especial significance, for the best corrective of naive
ideas about the natural or supernatural origin of apparitions and
hauntings is not argument, which is easily forgotten, but the realisa-
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. December 1938
tion that no simple formula will cover the great variety of cases
that are extant. This book should stimulate a more general con-
sciousness that psychical research, even in the domain of " spooks
"
which many still imagine to be its only interest, is concerned like
other sciences with the subjection of actual experience to the control
of orderly thinking.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOE PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued ' For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
INDEX TO VOL. XXX
1938-1939
For the sake of brevity such quahfieations as " supposed ",
" alleged etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be imderstood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
Appeal, S.P.R., for financial support,
21, 25-7, 165
Association, Word-, Tests, 31
Automatic Writing, Two Series of
Experiments in, 177-9
Automatism, motor (Case), 180-2 ;
mental (Case, and discussion), 264-
74
Barrett, Lady, Personality Survives
Death, reviewed, 145-7
Baynes, Dr H. Godwin, " The Ghost
as a Psychic Phenomenon ", 66-79
Besterman, Theodore, 155, 200-1
Bozzano, Ernesto, Discarnate Influ-
ence ill Human Life, reviewed, 277-8
Broad, Professor C. D., Sitting with
Miss Frances Campbell, 2-3 ; re-
election as President, 20 ;
" An
Ostensibly Pre-cognitive Dream
Unfulfilled ", 82-3, 123-4
Brown, Dr William, Mind, Medicine
and Metaphysics, reviewed, 90-1
Burt, Professor, 296, 302
Campbell, ]\Iiss Frances, Report on a
Series of Sittings with, 2-16, 28 ;
sitting with (" Instances of Ap-
parent Clairvoyance "). 61
Carington, W. Whately, 30-1, 36,
142-3, 167-9, 187-8 ;
" Some Early
Experiments Providing Appar-
ently Positive Evidence for Extra-
Sensory Perception " 295
Carrington, Hereward, The Psychic
World, reviewed, 228
Cases : "A New Communicator
Associated with '
Dora ' ", 111-22 ;
" Apparent Extra-Sensory Percep-
tion in the Form of Extra-Ocular
Vision 137-40 ; Automatism
connected with the finding of a
lost ruby, 180-2 ; "A Dream Sug-
gesting Planned Evidence of Sur-
vival ", 182-6 ;
" A Veridical Re-
current Dream ", 197 ;
" A Dream
Suggesting Precognition 198-9 ;
" A Phantasm Seen before the
Death of a Family Friend ", 235-6 ;
" A Study m Evidence ", 243-56 ;
" Communications Referred to the
Threat of European War ", 262-4 ;
" An Instance of Mental Automa-
tism and Apparent Telepathy ",
264-74 ; "A Forecast by Leonard
Communicators on the European
Crisis 283-4 ; "A Dream Sug-
gestmg Telepathy " (" adder case")
284-7
Chance results at Sittings, Tests to
determine, 99-101
Chairvoyance, Apparent, Instances
of, 58-61 ;
pure, 103
Coleman, Dr Warren, 137-40
Coover, Professor, 295-6
Cuddon, Eric, Hypnosis : its Mean-
ing and Practice, reviewed, 238-
9
d'Aranyi, Miss, 133-6
Davids, Mrs Rhys, What is your Will?
reviewed, 41-2
308 Iiidex to Vol. XXX
" Davidson ", Dr, Sitting with Miss
Frances Campbell, 11-13
Dewar, Lady, Forecast by her com-
municators on the European Crisis,
283-4
Dingwall, Dr E. J., 29 ; review by.
62-4 ; 140-1 ; 188-9
Donations to the Society, 20
Dowsing, 79
Dream, An Ostensibly Precognitive,
Unfulfilled, 82-3, 123-4 ; A Pre-
cognitive or Clairvoyant? 143-5 ;
Suggesting Planned Evidence of
Survival, 182-6 ; A Veridical Re-
current, 197-9 ;
Suggesting Pre-
cognition, 198-9 ; Coincident with
another person's day-dream, 273-4
;
Suggesting Telepathy, 284-7
Driberg, Dr J. H., 262
Driesch, Professor Hans, review by,
155-6
ElUs, Edith, Ope7i the Door! and In-
carnation, reviewed, 40-1
Endowment Fund, 20-1
Estabrooks, Dr, 297-8
European Crisis, Predictions on the,
262-4, 283-4
Evans, J. T., 258
Evian, Adalbert, The Mecliumshii') of
Maria Silhert, reviewed, 62-4
Extra-Sensory Perception : A Case
of Apparent, 137-40 ; In the
United States, 140-1 ;
Experiment
m, 188-9, 199-202, 215-20, 257-9,
274-6 ; Some Early Experiments
Providing Apparently Positive
Evidence for, 295
Fachiri, Mrs Adila, 133-6, 262-4
Fisk, G. W., and the Fisk Effect,
219-27
Franke, Dr L. J., 279, 292
Freud, Professor Sigmund, elected
Hon. Member, 282
Fryer, the Rev. A. T., obituary, 126
Garrett, Mrs Eileen, An Experiment
with, 99 ;
" Experiments with Mrs
Eileen Garrett ", by Mrs Goldney
and Mr S. G. Soal, 176
Geddes, Sir Auckland, A Voice from
the Grandstand, reviewed^ 103
Ghost, The, as a Psychic Phenomenon,
66-79 ; Ghost Photograph, Rayn-
ham Hall, 37
Gibbes, E. B., The Co7itrols of Geral-
dine Cummins, reviewed, 41
Gower, Sir Robert, co-opted a
Member of Coimcil, 175
Gregory, C. C. L., on research and
theory, 95-6, 98
Groningen experiments in " willing ",
299-303
Herbert, C. V. C, Report on Sittings
with Miss Frances Campbell, 2, 29 ;
on " Some Recent Investigations ",
52, 86-7 ;
" Instances of Apparent
Clairvoyance", 58-61 ; "An Experi-
ment with Mrs Garrett ", 99-101 ;
Individual Tests of Paranormal
Faculty, 210-5 ; a Note on types
of Zener cards, 215-8 ; on Prof.
Rhine's reply to this Note, 258-9
Hill, J. Arthur, review by, 237
Home, D. D., 42-5
Hope, Lord Charles, elected Member
of Council, 20 ; Gift of apparatus,
21
Horizons of Immortality, 132-6, 147,
152-3
Income Tax, the Society's exemption
from, 110, 165
International Institute for Psychical
Research, Bulletin I V, reviewed, 192
Irving, The Rev. W. S., episodes from
his Leonard Sittings, 111-22, 243-56
Jaccjueline, Miss, Sitting with (" In-
stances of Apparent Clairvoy-
ance "), 58-60
Johnson, Miss G. M. (automatist),
101, 103, 219-20, 224, 225, 226,
275-6, 288, 289
Jones, Sir La^wence J., 29-30, 38
Jones, Rufus M., The Testimony of
the Soul, reviewed, 91-2
Johnston, Sir Reginald Fleming,
death of, 205
Jung, Dr C. G., 69, 70, 75
Kennedy, Miss H. E., Notes on
Periodicals, 46-7, 80, 108, 206-8,
278-9, 291
Index to Vol. XXX 309
Lambert, G. W., 152-3
Lectures, Autumn 1938, arranged,
279-80
Leonard Sittings, episodes from, 111-
22, 126-32, 243-56, 283-4
Library, S.P.R., books borrowed in
1936, p. 21 ; in 1937, p. 166
Lyttelton, the Hon. ]\Irs Alfred,
G.B.E., Sitting with Miss Frances
Campbell, 3 ; Some Cases of
Prediction, reviewed, 190 ; 198
Maby, J. CecU, 30-1 ; 37 ; 39 ;
" A Pre-
cognitive or Clairvoyant Dream?"
143-5 ; 201-2 ;
" An Instance of
Mental Automatism and Apparent
Telepathy ", 264-74
McDougal, Professor, death of, and
valedictory message to the Council,
294
" Milton ", Miss, Sitting with Miss
Frances Campbell, 7-11, 13-14
Mitchell, Dr T. W., 282
Myers, Mrs F. W. H., obituary, 50
Newlove Case, 32
Newton, Miss Isabel, retirement as
Secretary of the Society, 161 ;
election as Hon. Member, 195,
196
Nicol, J. Fraser, 235
Nonvegian Society for Psychical Re-
search, 20th Anniversary of, 208
Originatmg Mind, The, in Evidential
Trance Messages, 126-32
Palmstierna, Baron Erik, on the
subconscious mind, 132-6 ; Hori-
zons of Immortality, reviewed,
147 ;
paper on Horizons of
Immortality and the Subconscious
Mind, reviewed, 192 ;
reply, 202-3
;
" Communications Referred to the
Threat of European War ", 262-4
Paranormal Faculty, Individual
Tests of, 210-5
Payne, Miss Phoebe, Man's Latent
Powers, reviewed, 205-6
Perception, whether paranormal, or
normal but latent (Case), 181-2
Phantasm, A (Case), 235-6
Pratt, J. G., 99-101, 106
Precognition, and coincidences, 190 ;
a dream suggesting, 198-9
" Prediction, (?) A, Fulfilled 29-30
Predictions on the European Crisis,
262-4, 283-4
Psycho-galvanic reflex, 30-1
Quantitative, The, Study of Trance
Personalities, 30-1, 142-3, 167-9,
187-8
Random Distribution, 55-6, 83-6,
123 ; with the mechanical selector,
101-3, 123
Rayleigh, Lord, elected President, 51;
on the non-expression of opinion by
the Society as such, 98 ; re-elected
President, 175
Reeves, E. A., Recent Psychic Experi-
ences, reviewed, 92
Research, Current, Notes on, 20, 37,
86-7, 159-61
Reviews. Books :
Lady Barrett, Personality Sur-
vives Death, 145-7
Ernesto Bozzano, Discarnate In-
flxience in Human Life, 277-8
Dr William Bro%vn, Mind, Medi-
cine and Metaphysics, 90-1
Hereward Carrmgton, The Psy-
chic World, 228
Eric Cuddon, Hypnosis : its
Meaning and. Practice, 238-9
Mrs Rhys Davids, What is your
Win? 41-2
Edith Ellis, Open the Door! and
Incarnation, 40-1
Adalbert Evian, The Medium-
ship of Maria Silhert, 62-4
Sir Auckland Geddes, ^4 Voice
from the Grandstand, 103
E. B. Gibbes, The Controls of
Geraldine Cummins, 41
Rufus M. Jones, The Testimony
of the Sold, 91-2
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Some Cases of Prediction, 90
Baron Erik Palmstierna, Hori-
zons of Immortality, 147
Phoebe Payne, Man's Latent
Powers, 205-6
E. A. Reeves, Recent Psychic
Experiences, 92
310 Index to Vol. XXX
Reviews. Books : {cont.
)
Zoe Richmond, Evidence of Pur-
pose, 239-40
W. H. Salter, Ghosts and Appari-
tions, 305-6
H. F. Saltmarsh, Evidence of
Personal Survival from Cross-Cor-
respondences, 227-8
R. R. Schmidt, The Dawn of the
Human Mind, 39-40
J. R. Sturge-Whiting, The Mys-
tery of Versailles, 260
John F. Thomas, Ph.D., Beyond
Normal Cognition, 148
Sir J. J. Thomson, Recollections
and Reflections, 31-2
Dr Alfred Frh. V. Winterstein,
Telepafhie und Hellsehen, 155-6
Horace Wyndham, Mr Sludge,
the Medium, 42-4
Reviews. Periodicals :
Journal of the British Society of
Dowsers, vol. ii, 79
Journal of Parapsychology, The,
vol. i. No. 1, 106-7, Nos. 2 and 3,
169-72
Psykisk Tidsskrift, 208
Revue Metapsychique, 46, 80,
206-7, 279, 291
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie,
278-9, 291, 292
Zeitschrift fiir Metapsychische
Forschung, 46-7, 108
Research, Principal lines of, 20 ;
re^Dorts and notes on, 37, 86-7, 159,
210-15 ;
Study groups, 37, 1.59-60
Rhine, Professor J. B., Mr Soal's
repetition of work by, 55-8 ; on
experiment in E.S.P., 257-8
Richmond, Mrs Kenneth, Sitting
with Miss Frances Campbell, 4
;
Evidence of Purpose, reviewed,
239-40
Richmond, Kenneth, Sitting with
Miss Frances Campbell, 3-4, 28 ;
elected Hon. Associate, 20 ;
report
on two Irving-Leonard Sittings,
111-22 ;
appomted Editor of the
Journal, 158 ;
" A Study in Evi-
dence ", 243-56
Salter, Mrs W. H., Sitting with Miss
Frances Campbell, 4-5
Salter, W. H., " Statistical and Other
Technicalities in Psychical Re-
search ", 34-6 ; Ghosts and Appari-
tions, reviewed, 305-6
Saltmarsh, H. F., on statistical
methods, 142-3, 153-4 ; on the
quantitative study of trance per-
sonalities, 187-8 ; assistance to
House and Finance Committee,
196 ; Evidence of Personal Survival
from Gross-Correspondences, re-
viewed, 227-8
Sambor, S. F., Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo on experiments
with, 87-90
Schiller, Dr F. C. S., obituary,
204-5
Schmidt, Dr R. R., The Dawn of the
Human Mind, reviewed, 39
Schumann Concerto, messages re-
garding the, 132-6
Silbert, Maria, mediumship of, 62-4
Soal, S. G., "A Repetition of J. B.
Rhme's work in E.S.P.", 34, 55-8 ;
on Tests for Random Distribution,
83-6 ; tests of Mechanical Selector
criticised, 101-3 ;
reply, 123 ;
Preliminary Studies of a Vaude-
ville Telepathist, reviewed, 191 ; on
Mr Tyrrell's experiments (corre-
spondence), 274-6, 288-90; 303
Society for Psychical Research :
Accounts, 1936, 23-4 ; 1937, 162-4
Committees, membership of, 51
Income Tax exemption, 110, 165
Lectures, Autumn, 279-80 ;
Myers
Memorial, 152, 166
Meetings, Annual General, 52-5,
195-6
Council, 18-9, 51-2, 82, 95, 150-1,
158, 174-6, 194, 210, 230, 242,
282, 293
General, 152
Private, 34, 52, 82, 95, 151, 158,
176, 194, 210, 230, 243, 262,
282, 294
Private, list of, during 1936, 25 ;
during 1937, 166-7
Membership, 1936, p. 21 ; 1937,
p. 166
Publications, 21
Report, Annual, for 1936, 19-25 ;
for 1937, 159-67
Index to Vol. XXX 311
SolovoTO, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-,
review by, 43-5 ;
" My Experi-
ments -nith S. F. Sambor 87-90 ;
" Two Series of Experiments in
Automatic Writing 177-9 :
" Witchcraft in the Belgian Congo"
230-5
Spinney, G. H., appointed Hon.
Librarian, 50
Spontaneous Cases, Scarcity of, 29
Spontaneous phenomena, investiga-
tion of, 20, 37, 87, 159
Statistical Methods of Investigation
of Trance Personalities, 142-3 (see
also under " Quantitative Study of
Trance Personalities "").
Statistical Technicalities in Psychical
Research, 34-6
Strutt, Admiral the Hon. A. C,
Sitting with Miss Frances Camp-
bell, 5 : elected Member of Coimcil,
20
Study Groups, 37, 159-60
Sturge-Whiting, J. Pv., The Mxjsterij
of Versailles, reviewed, 260
Subconscious Mind, Baron Palm-
stiema on the, 132-6, 192, 202-3
Telepathy, Cases suggesting, 264-74,
284-7 ; as " willing ", Groningen
experiments in, 299, 302 ;
distant,
Usher-Burt experiments in, 302-3
Tellmg, Dr W. H. Maxwell, obituary,
237
Tenhaeff, Dr W. H. C, elected Hon.
Associate, 20 ;
207, 279
Thomas, the Rev. C. Drayton, An
Amazing Experiment (Newlove
Case), 32 ;
" The Originating
Mind in Evidential Trance Mes-
sages ", 126-32 ; review by, 145-7 ;
283-4
Thomas, John F., Ph.D., Beyond
Normal Cognition, reviewed, 148
Thomson, Sir J. J., Recollections and
Eeflections, reviewed, 31-2
Thouless, Professor R. H., 99, 142,
167-9
Trance, and brain function, 292
Trance Personalities, the Quantitative
Study of, 30-1, 167-9, 187-8
Troland, Dr, 295, 296-7
Tyrrell, G. N. M., on research and
theory, 95-8 ; on S. G. Soal's tests
of Mechanical Selector, 101-3 ; on
experiment in E.S.P., 199-200,
274-6, 289-90 ; on the Fisk, Effect
223-6 : 284-7
University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, Bulletin
III, reviewed, 191
Usher-Burt experiments in distant
telepathy, 302-3
Walker, Miss Nea, Sitting with Miss
Frances Campbell, 6-7 ; 148 ;
resignation of editorship of the
Journal, 161 and 165
Warren, Miss V., appointment as
Research Secretary, 195 ; obi-
tuary, 292
Watkins, Miss K. E., resigns appoint-
ment as Hon. Librarian, 50
Wmterstein, Dr Alfred Frh. v., Tele-
pathie laid Hellsehen, reviewed,
155-6
Witchcraft m the Belgian Congo,
230-5
Word-Association Tests, 31
Wyndham, Horace, Mr Sludge, the
Medium, reviewed, 42-4
Zorab, G., 292
