{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__landseer___further_sabean_researches.pdf","mytitle":"Further Sabean Researches","mylang":"de"}
......
.......-~..--~.......•-.............~'.......'.fact
,.
...
ff
;
1 '··~
•
LECTURE IX.-DELIVERED AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION, AND
RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO LORD PRUDHOE, F.R.S. & F.S.A.
I &AVE to discourse of ancient Assyrian and Egyptian monuments
remaining near the confines of Phamicia,
It is well known that Assyria, Egypt, and Phamicia, were three of
the most'distinguished of the nations ofantiquity, yet how little-how
very Jittle-do we know of their history! Their annals have been
destroyed. Their lite~ture is lost. From a distance, and from no
very exalted station, we dimJy behold the august and colossal form of
Oblivion striding over them from temple to temple, and from rock to
rock ; and how shall we arrest her progress!
I believe that-what remains to be known of the remote occurrences
of which these ancient nations were the theatres, and of the eras of
those occurrences, must be collected chiefty from the study ofarchitec- .
tural, mythological, and hiert>glyphical sculptures, such as I shall have
the honour ofsubmitting to your notice to-night, through the agency or
a carefully executed cast. It were savage to cut down a tree in order
,.__
--
•
2
to obtain its fruit; or to mutilate or demolish a temple, in order .to
bring home a few of its ornamental fragments ; ca&t• of such curious
memorials are scarcely less interestingthan the originals to the studious
antiquary; and this safer, more eligible, and enlightened, course, has
been adopted by Mr. Joseph Bonomi, the gentleman who has trans-
ported the present monument from Sidon to our metropolis. Through
his zeal, care, and persevering enterprise, the philosophical antiquaries
of Great Britain may now contemplate a very interesting sculptured
Assyrian·monument, in its relations to seven others that are nearly
obliterated.
These curious rock sculptures were seen by Maundrell, a veracious
English traveller, who passed along the shores of Phamicia, in the
year 1697, when they were probably\omewhat less imperfect than at
present ; and we may more than suspect were seen by Herodotu, who
travelled over the same ground more than twenty·two centuries ago,
when the latest of them probably retained much of their pris~ine
sharpness of execution, and much was perfect that has since mouldered
to dust. But though certainly among the most ancient and interesting
of Oriental sculptured monuments, they have escaped the notice, I
believe, or all the. European tourists except Maundrell and Bonomi.
We have now to bestow on them-at least on two of them-and more
particularly on that one, of which, with Lord Prudhoe's* pennission, I
sball have the honour of exhibiting Mr. Bonomi's cast-a little critical
attention.
But first-The site of these remarkable ~lptured rocks, is the
southern bank, and close to the mouth, of the ancient river Lycus, now
called by the Arabs, Nahr AI Kelb; not far from (perhaps within) the
bay of Juni8, where it discharges its W8ters into the Mediterranean;
about two hours N.E.of the ancient city ofBerytus, nowcaDed Beyroot,
and about midway between it and the celebrated river of Adonis, for
whose real, or fabulous 8lld sidereal, death, the Sidonian virgins wept
• In inscribing the present. Essay to his Lordship. it baa been thought eligible. and
not incompatible with reapeet, to preserve the original t'orm and words of the Lecture
delivered on the. evening of the 13th of Febrnary, at the Royal tnatitutiou.
•
8
annually, or annually pretended to weep, and afterward did very sin·
cerely rejoice.
Mr. Bonomi writes of these curious vestiges-" The rocks that SUS•
tain the road south of the river, preserve the remains of ten monuments
or IJI8at interest, and of various epocba." you will goon perceive,
Gentlemen, that this is not less correctly than it is ably expressed.
Two of the ten monuments, however, we will put out or the present
enquiry, further than just to mention, that the one is an Arabie• in•
aeription orcomparatively modern date, though oramu antiquity; and
the other Roman, and of the age of Marcus Antoninus, certifying that
the Emperor coD&trueted that lower and more convenient road which
is at present used ; the road having formerly passed more steeply over
and round this remarkable promontory. Roman JD810nry which re-
maina fiml to this day, fills up the fissures in the natural rock, equalises
the road, and attests the· talent of the Emperor's engineers. But it
lbay not be unworthy of cursory notice, that the river is in that Latin
iDICI'iption styled, the Lycus, orWolf river. The river of the Dog may,
notwithstanding, be the more ancient appellation, since Sidon, or Zidoa,
(which latter is the orthography of Canaan and our early Suiptures,)
literally means Avater, and this whole tract of country from Lebanon
to the sea, is the well known scene of the legend (fabulous or astro-
nomical) of the sports and death of Adonis, the hunter, whom Venus
is fabled to have loved and lamented. By the wonls more ancient
appellation of the Dog, I mean the COIIIItllGI«l dog Sirius, or the
celestial regions (called Caleb, by the Hebrews) ; for t~ land of
Canaan abounded with places bearing astronomical names at the time
of its invasion by Joshua, as we learn from the book bearing his
name. There were, Gilgcl, the revolving sphere; Bella-Mt~~~~ the
houae or temple of the Sun; &tla-HtWOfl, that of Horus; LibrurA_ the
· Moon ; ~ .Ktmatnm_ the same, in her crescent phase, (where
Israel " smote the Repbaim''); Cltail. theChaldean nameofa constella·
tion mentioned in the book of Job; and ae\'eral others, notleSiobviously
• Maundrell miatakeDly supposed the Arabic ioscription to record the erection of aneigh.
1louriag bridge, by th4! Bmer Faecardine. Mt. Bonomi ucmained that it was of far more
dietaDt date.
B
of astronomical origin. Now, near the extremity of the sculptured
promontory, stands a pedestal-Mr. Bonomi bas particularised it in
his sketch-which apparently once supported a colossal statue; which
statue, if the native Arabs may be credited, still lies broken and in
the sea, at the distance of a few yards from the shore, and is that of
a Dog. Maundrell states, that the dog's head was said to be extant at
Venice in his time ; and Mr. Bonomi bas marked the spot in the sea
where the real or supposed idol lies, looking, from the distance at which
he saw it, like a small dark rock. We may observe here, that a dog,
if but rudely sculptured, would naturally be construed by the descend·
ants or Romulus and Remus, into a wolf, which is, in in fact, a .species
of dog. And the Arabs may be thought to be entitled to some credit
with regard to the native traditions of their own land.
The few lines which are sketclled as a head-piece to the present
fAsay, with the view of explaining the relative local situations of the
several sculptures-these few lines, and the passages in Maundrell's
Journal,wherein these ancientworks are mentioned, attest each other's
truth, while they illustrate Phamician, Egyptian, and Assyrian history.
Maundrell says, that having "passed the,-iver, you immediately begin
to ascend the mountain, or rather great rock banging over it on that
aide. To accommodate the passage, you have a patli of above two
yards in breadth, cut along its side, at a great height above the water,
being the work of the Emperor Antoninus; for the promontory allowing
of no passage between it and the sea at bottom, that Emperor under'·
·took, with incredible labour, to open this way above; the memory of
which good work is perpetuated by an inscription.
• • • • • • •
" In passing this way, we observed in the sides of the rock above us,
several .tables of figures carvedt which seemed to promiSe something·of
antiquity·; to be satisfied of which, some of ·us clambered ·up to the
place, and found ·there some signs as if the old way had gone in that
region before Antoninus cut the other more convenient ·passage a little
lower. . In.several places hereabouts, we saw strange antique figures
of men, carved in the natural rock, in mezzo-relievo, and in bigness
~
equal to th~ life. Close by f!ach figw-e was a large table planed in the
tide·of the rock, and bordered round with mouldings. Both the eftlgie~
and the tables appeared to have been anciently inscribed all over; but
the characters are now so defaced, that nothing but the footsteps o~
them were visible; only there was one of the figures that had both i~
lineaments and its inscriptions entire." Thus far Maundrell.
This ~, is the figure which it is my principal purpose to elucidate.
It i~ distinguished in our sketch by its lofty situation, and by a bin!
which Mr. Bonomi has introduced, ftying near it. But concerning th~
whole assemblage, and more especially concerning the square tablets,
:Bonomi is more introspective than Maundrell, and much more topo-
graphically accurate. He says, " the most aneient but unfortunately
.the most corroded, of the antiquities, are three Egyptian table~
On them may be traced, in more places than one, the name, expressed
in hieroglyphics, of R.artuu t/ae &corul; .to the period of whose reign
any connoisseur in Egyptian art would have attributed them, even if
the evidence of the name bad been wanting, from the beautiful pnr
portions of the tablets, and their curvetto mouldings."
It will be perceived that Mr. Bonomi brought with him to the anti-
quarian scrutiny, the eye and the tact· of an artist, which discerns
criteria where phonetic literature sometimes fails. This fortunate or
introspective, discovery of the patronymic of &lollril; which ~tter
word being, in all probability, either an heroic addition or a sacred
title first expreued in the vernacular language of Egypt, and after-
ward modified by Herodotus and the Greeks, so as to accord with their
own euphonic languag&-this word, Sesostris-.-could not be expected to
be met in any Eggpliaft inscription. The ascertainment on the present
..blet, of the hieroglyph of Ramses the Second, is therefore eztrtJMly
jat~, both in its.elf, and as a luminous beacon in investigating the
relative antiquity of those of the Phamician monuments which contain,
()r have contained, the arrow-head, or cunieform, inscriptions. These
latter are arched at the top, and being altogether different, both in style
and subject-matter, fi,'Om the former, are evidently the work of ~ists
of a different nation. or these, there exist on the sc.ulptured promo~-
6
tory before ~, the remalns ot 8-.e: two of ·them tire Jarie, and eloae
beside two of the Egyptian tablets ; the other three are of smaller
dimensious, and all ate as nearly o'bllterated as their Egyptian tom-
panions, excepting that which is ~ulptured on the loftiest part of the
took. Owing, perhaps, to Its being mote out of the reach of the spray
of the sea when tempestuous, and of the passing want.obDell of Ignorant
and unreflecting persons, this relievo retains more of its original
design and eseeution than the rest. It is the monument which is par·
ticularlzed by Maundrell, and it is that which, through the kindness of
Lord Prudhoe, I have the honour to submit to youl' noti~. But, first-
In proofthat Ramses the Second, of Egypt, is, either 111 I have a88UIIled,
identical witb l!Jesostris (the Great), so celebrated for his various and
distant conquests, or was his brother, and ofcourse his contemporary-
we have the veracious and concurrent evidence of the ~iab priest
Manetho, Tacitus, and Josephus, falling In, I believe, with the results
of modern critical investigation, and particularly with that of the
learned Dr. Prichard.
Sesostris, according to these authorities, appears to bave been the
gralid&Qn, or great grandson, of that Ramses, {sometimes written
Bamesses) who beside other Jaborious works, compelled the captive
children of Israel to build a town or city, which he named after him·
self. This second Ramses is probably known in history by his heroic
title or cognomen, ~sed partly for the sake ofdistingui•hing him from
his less renowned ancestor. It thii warlike monareh lived during the
period of the Hebrew Theocracy, as there is reason to think, and during
the dominion of their Judges, and if his father Amenoph perished in
the Red Sea, his not being mentioned in the Bible, wbicb bas excited
iome sutprise, is in a great measure accounted for. The lewish scribes
kept annal• not for us, but for their own Dl1tion. And the early age
ltrhen aem.tris-Bamses the Second, or Bamses tH Great, in eoDSe•
quence ofthe overwhelmingcatastrophe,ucended the Egyptian throne,
further accounts for his long reign of By-one, sixty-three, or sixty-sis
years, when blindness overtook him on his illustrious career, and dis·
appointed pride led on to suicide I·
,
,.
Surprise would be felt were not the faet well known, that authorities
vary considerably concerning the eraofthe reign of.Ramses the Second.
Though much bas recently been effected toward its ascertainment by
our 1Cie11tifle transmarine neighbours, and in our own country by the
learning of Dr. Prichard, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Cullimore, and oth,rs, the
chronology ofancient Egypt must be confessed to be as yet but begin·
nios to synchronise with that of the Asiatic natioDJ. From literature
we ohtain little in the illustration of such monuments as are before us.
On the contrary, Literature is at last tardily looking up for light to
ancient Sculpture, whose proftered stores, " rich with the spoils of
time," have been too long neglected; but the clulritie• of Fine Art
have endured all thinga, hoped all things-in the fondness of her faith
and aft'eetion, she has become credulous and patient; and her cordial
willinpesa is DO more slackened by neglect, than the light of heaven
is retarded. Literature will therefore.ftnd the elucidation it may seek,
whenever ancient sculpture ia studied as combined with, and in its
relatioDS to, aat:ief&l A.6trfJI&MB1J.
PaiDa ! bend thine eye from heaYen to thine estate,
See how the mighty shrink into a 10111!
Can volume, pOlar, pile, pre~e"e the great?
Or must thou &rust Tradilion'a simple tougue,
When Flattery aleepa with thee, and History does thee Wl'ODI?
No: there is Art, and Science, fBI to con.
The 8rst expedition of Seaostrfs, according to Herodotus, was south-
ward, along the shoresofthe Arabian Gulph, attended by a fleet of'' long
vessels;" that f• to 1ay, ships of war. On his victorious return to Egypt,
-be levied a mighty anny, and made a martial progreu urtlrvartl, pro-
ceeding to the conquest of Thraoe and Scythia; in which the line of
his march near the sea-coast, shews tbat be muat still have been attend-
ed by a numerous and powerful fleet. Advancing through Palestine,
Phcenicia, Caria, and Ionia, Sesostris either passed the Propontis, or
muted the southem shores of the Euxine, till he arrived at Colchis,
where he was either cheeked by powert\11 reailtance, or was recalled to
c
8
Egypt by a friendly priest, to punish the usu'rpation of his brother ;
though, according to Manetho, he pushed his conquests eastward as far
as Media. But ft16 have no occasion to attend this great conqueror fur-
ther on his victorious march than through Palestine and Phc:enieia,
which be probably overran without much difficulty; leaving in an en-
feebled condition those maritime powers of the sea-coast (termed Pki-
liltif&U in the book of Judges), with whom the Children of Israel• were
destined soon afterward to contend.
But since we flnd no mention in history, and no traces in Cilicia itself
of Sesostris having passed through that portion of Asia Minor, it seems
highly probable that, after the subjugation of Syria, he might.have
embarked from the Bay of Junia, or mouth of the Lycus, where we find
these sculptured rocks, and crossed over to Kittim, since called Cyprus:
This idea, when coupled with the known ambition of the Egyptian
monarch for perpetuity of fame, affords further reason for his com.
manding these lasting memorials to be sculptured. His fteet must have
attended him in this expedition, as in theforraer, with stores, provisions
for his immense anny, and munitions of war.
I have put this course of the northern march of.our· Egyptian hero
somewhat hypothetically, because such was the course of ·my own
thoughts on the subject. It was the way in which, from inspecting the
map and other documents, it first occurred to me. Reading since what
Josephus has cited from Manetbo, I find conflrmatory evidence of the
facts of Sesostris taOt havi"!J trtHJerl«l Cilicia, and of his Boating commis-
sariat. Manetho says, that '4 investing his brother with the viceroyalty
of Egypt, Sethosis (which appears to be his Egyptian epithet)-~ an
expedition against Cypnu and PAtnicitl,and finally against the Assyrians
• The Egyptian priest Manelho, represents &tAo., Sethosis, Sesooaia, or Seac.tria; as
beiDg thirteen years of age. at the era of the expulsioo of the Iepera ftom Egypt; which espu).
aion ·ia by some authora Apposed to be 1M Enplitm ecoaflt of the Hebrew esod~; and
Count Vohley imqinea that the great conqueror may have passed and spared the Jews, out
of contempt· for their recent origin, when he set forth on his Ph<enician and Ionian es-
pedition: but4f the 'Jewa abode forty years In the wilderness, they had not poaesaed themaelves
of the Jerusalem mountaiDa dllloog after bia retarn,_nor perhaps during bia Ufe.time.
......
...
9
and the Medea.'' Please to remark here, that the island of Cyprus was
one of his principal objects. . This, when regarded with what I sh&ll
presently submit to your notice, piaees this part of my statement upon
firmer than hypothetical ground, and enables us easily to trace on the
map, the general outline of hisvictorious march. His fteet sailed from
Pelusium ;. his ar~y proceeded along the sea-coast. At the mouth of
the river Lyeus, commanding its rocks to be sculptured, he embarked
his victorious troops, and crossed over to Cyprus; after the conquest of
which, he re-embarked-probably for Pamphylia-where his numerous
fteet •might find a noble harbour-and proceeded to subjugate other
nations, and to sculpture other rocks.
Herodotus, from whom, with smallliceDSe of illustrative paraphrase,
I have chiefty copied, and shall continue to copy,.the contours ofthese
historical occurrences, says that Sesostris subdued all the nations which
he met with on his march, or received their submissions-erecting per-
manent memorials in their several countries, upon which be inseri~
his tltlfJIB, and that ofhis nation, with the details of his conquests ; add-
ing lipjfit:mal lplboll, to denote whether or not he bad been opposed
with generous bravery. Artists must therefore have trave1led in his
train, as Bezaleel and Aholiab did in that of Moses and Aaron. Bu&
we may feel no surprise that these symbols are not among the ruined
vestigia that remain on these Phamician rocks, being very certain that
under such circumstances, if the <blo-Syrians made prudent submis-
sion to his fresh and conquering hosts (as it is m~t likely they did),
they would avail themselves of some favourable opport~nity of effacing
the sculptured stigma, which nothing less than a parpetual military
guard of protection, oould have prese"ed through centuries of revolu-
tionary vichlsitude, That the name-the hieroglypbical name-of
Sesostris, .Jhould have remained to our time, is almost more than phi-
losophical.criticism, or antiquarian speculation, could reasonably have
expected : but A.e Uu, and p.-eeisely corresponds with that 1thich is
recorded on the tablet of Abydos. · ·• _
0 Heroclo~us adds-what is ext(emely pertinentto our present purpose,
and I shall venture to add, well woi'Uly of remembrance-namely, tbat
• • 0
10
he IIJfiJ some of these aculptured monuments in Ptdem.e of B,n., and
that there are two in Imtia. Unfortunately for our present problem,
he does not describe particularly thole which he •ys he saw ; but de-
scribes those of Ionia, which he doea not say he saw, but which he may
nevertheless have seen. In Ionia (be says) there are two figures of
this king, carwd oul of liM rocA. One is on the way from Ephesus to
Phocea; the other between Sardis and Smyrna (which, by the way,
shews that the progress of Sesoltris continued to be near the se&ooCOaSt;
so that during the whole expedition he appears to have been too pru·
dent to venture far from his fteet). Both of these sculptures (proceeds
Herodotus) represent a man five palms in height (which is about the
height of the figures in basso-re1ievo, in the upper compartments of the
remains ofthe Egyptian tablets, 81 sketchedby Mr. Bonomi); "theright
hand holdsa javelin,the lefta bow." [In thi1 respect the Ionian sculptures
do not precisely accord with the Phmnician ; for here the right hand
holds a bow,and the left, I believe,a battle-axe. The herO is represented
in the act of oft'ering prisoners 81 victims to his deity.] The rest of his
armour (continues our venerable author) is partly Egyptian and partly
Ethiopian ; and across his breast from shoulder to aboulder, there is
this inscription in the I8Cred characters (the hieroglyphics) of Egypt,
" I conquered this country by the force of my arms ;" or more litemllg
(and according to the Greek version of the Egyptian idiom), " I gained
for myself this region by my shoulders.'' Who the hero is that is here
represented, ·or of rvlat country, the inscription acrosa his bre81t does
not specify; but (as is previously observed) both are told elsewhere on
the monument.
Thus far Herodotus.-Itwould have beenfortunate for ourresearches,
and would have &et 81ide all scepticism on the present subject, had the
father of profane history, described with the aame particularity which
be bas here bestowed on the Ionian monument&, the .Aole of wbat he
saw on the Egyptian sculptures, which be here (in his Euterpe) terms
tlaose of Paleatiae in Syria. The hieroglyphical tablets which we find
on the south bank of the embouchure of the Lycus, are not, topogra·
phically speaking, and speaking accordiug to the lines ofdemarkation
l
!
....
'.
11
employed in our present geographical charts-in Pt~lutiu, although
certainly ins,,;,. They are about fifty miles from its present JJ.Orthern
limits, and rtJitlaia Plullf&icitl. We may not, therefore, at least till we
have submitted a ·little further explanation, profess to be quiie certain
whether or not the tablets of AI Kelb·were the sculptured rocks seen
by Herodotus: or whether there were other such to the southward
of these. My auditors will determine this point for theinselves,·after I
shall have submitted a few reSections, which have imparted to my own
mind pretty strong assurance that the sculpture of which you see a cast
to-night, was inspected, together with the hieroglyphi~ of Sesostris,
more than twenty-two centuries ago, by the venerable father 9f history.
My own opinions are, that 80 powerful and famous a commander as
Sesostris, would not think it worth his while to make a halt of triumph
and order rocks 80 be sculptured, nearer than are the rocks ofthe river
Lycua to his own paternal dominions, or frontier. It would not, I think,
bave been consistent with his dignity, or the loftinesaa of his pretension.
Neither, if be had sculptured rocks in Palestine proper, would he again
have halted to sculpture others, or have commanded others to be sculp-
tured, within ftfty miles of its border. Works of so much skill and
labour, wereliot lavished onevery-day matters, nor squandered on every
few miles of additional territory, but reserved for occasions of eminent
importance. Bamses the Second was too proud to be thus superficially
vain.
Hieroglypbical inscription, appears to have been the earliest mode·of
commemoration with which the inventive powers of man brought the
world acquainted. It was practised among the aborigines of America,
as well as by the ancient Egyptians. And, from having seen such-
poaibl!/ from having seen the very tablets that are here under our
notice, the patriarch Job (the time of whose existence is unknown), in
his poetical aspirations after perpetuity, exclaims " Who shall ordain
now that my ftHn'dl shall be tlrtt~VR P Who shall give that in a fll8fi&OritJl
they shall be delineatedP That with an instrument of iron, and lead,
D
they shall be cu4 out ia tk rocA for ~ P" This is so pertinent-so
precisely descriptive, that, probably, neither poetry nor eloquence could
AOIV ~sent us with a better literary illustration of the hieroglyphieal
mode of inscription.
That due hieroglyphical tablets were intended to be read-to be
preserved with care and respect, and to be referred to and transmitted
with the sanction and reverence which is due to legal title deeds, or
national treaties, may be inferred from Mr. Bonomi's having remarked
on the spot, that they have been originally protected by a kind of
folding doors, probably of wood, the holes for the hinges of which, 01
more properly, for the cardinet pivou, on which the-doors have turned,
are yet remainiug.
I have one more observation to make concerning the valuable record
of Herodotus, which is nearly conclusive in favour of our Sesostrian
hypothesis. It is, that although the historian writes as above quoted,
in his Eaterpe, yet in his Pol,.,.ia, eh. 89, he says, " The Phmnicians,
• Jn citing the twenty-third aad twenty.fourth verses of ch. xis. (avoiding the mistake. of
our English translation) I have availed myself of the critical powers of the learned author of
the JllutaimMta Afflipt~, who carefully investigated the original Hebrew. Even the least
erudite reader of the present day, will acarcelyauppoae that the prophetic powers of the vener-
able patriarch, when be uttered this remarkable acJamation, reached to the fifteenth century
of the Christian era, and induced him to wish that his " worda were pritalld in a b®k (' or to
the nineteeotb, when they might be '' gnven with an iroa pea." The moat simple and obviout
constructionwe can put upon the words " an instrument of iron, aad kad,'' requires a comma
where I have placed one; since it means-not that the same instrument was constructed partly
of iron and partly of lead, bat that the bieroglypbica were first Cllt in the rough wicb an iron
or steel instrument, probably urged by a mallet, such as il uaed .bY the atatuariea of &be preaeut
day, and afterward finished more carefully by the friction of the corundum atone (or adaman-
tine spar) reduced to powder, and applied by means oflead ; for the softer, or more porous, the
metal with which it ia applied, the more rapidly will the fricb opente. Lead and copper
are still uaed for simUar purposes. by lapidaries and seal engravers.-Yfdf ., Jrtt Lec-WH
on lhgraf1ifi8•IIP· 26-7.
t I have employed this somewhat unuaual term, to express specifically that more ancient
contrivance which preceded the invention of hinges. Ht•1•• were not invented till after the
deatruction of Herculaneum.
...
·.
18
by their own account, once inhabited the coasts of tlie Red Sea, but
emigrated thence to the maritime parts of Syria~ ALL of tvlriela ilidrict,
a far tl8 Egypt, is dentnaiMted PALESTINE. The Sculptures of which we
are discoursing, then, are not far north of the ceatre of the PakstiJ&e of
Herodotru.
Under this accumulation of circumstances, I coneeive that we hazard
little in asserting, and believing, and maintaining, that at least tllat oa
of the Egyptian tablets of AI Kelb, on which we reeognise the name of
8esostris, or Raalses the Second, commetnorates his Syrian triumphs,
and was sculptured by his direction.
And now, after this preliminary sketch, which I thought indispensa-
ble to its explication, we will (if you please) pass to Lord Prudhoe's
A,.U. monument, the original of which is chiselled close beside that
of the Egyptian CODqueiOI'.. Mr. Bonomi bas been the first European
traveller who has remarked the aprior t~Mpit1 of the hieroglypbieal
tablets of AI Kelb over those which I assert to be of Assyrian work·
ma111hip. This is a necessary prelude to the solution which I propose
to myself the honour of submitting. According to Mr. Cullimore's
table of Egyptian kings, Sesostris began to reign one thousand and
nine years from the commencement of the Egyptian monarchy, under
Menes. Dr. Prichard bad previously computed it at one thousand and
seven years. This di8'erence of two years, is too inconsiderable in
ascertaining the era of an occurrence so remote, to stop us for a single
moment. It may be called coincidence. To convert these years of
Menes, into years before the commencement of our era, is· not quite so
easy. The most recent and eminent of our Oriental ehronologers have
not yet, I believe, agreed on tbe number of years that intervened be-
tween the ·aooession of Menes aod the birth of Jesus Christ. Yet we
may regard the era of Setlostris, and that of the Assyrian Ptll, as suffi-
ciently settled for us to state, that within five centuries and a half from
the demise of the great Egyptian·conqueror, Cmlo-Syria,-including the
dominions of the kings of Tyre, Sidon, Damascus, and Samaria, was
invaded by one, and within the next forty years, by tfiiO more, of the
14
powerful monarchs of Assyria, who all of them permitted plunder and
exacted tribute ; and the last of whom led the ten tribes of Israel into
captivity.
During these centuries, the Jewish Theocracy had merged into the
kingdom of Saul and David, which, after rising to glory and import-
ance under Solomon, bad suffered sad reverses under the dominion
and the disunions of his successors, proceeding chiefty from the un·
fraternal jealousies of the Hebrews themselves, and the heretical
animosities which sprung up between the prophets of Jehovah, and
those of their Aif&!JB whose aberrations from the true worship were fre..
quent and ftagrant. These powerful and unhappycauses, had conspired,
as is well known, to separate the nation into the two kingdoms of Judah
and of Israel, which were in frequent hostility with each other. And
during these centuries of military and religious horrors, Troy had en·
dured her ten years siege, Greece had triumphed, and Sidon (which
was of older standing than either Tyre, or Troy, or Greece, or the
Hebrew nation) bad become subject to Tyre, coerced by its superior
geographical and commercial situation. But Sidon, Babylon, Nineveh,
and the Memphis and Thebes of Egypt, (perhaps, too, the Heliopolis
of Egypt,) were at this remote period, U.S Btlcretl aeata ofart-of those
arts, I mean, that embellish human nature, and speak to posterity.
The three kings of Assyria, who, according to the Bible, to Josephus,
and to Menander (of Ephesus), who translated what fragments he could
find of the annals of Tyre-the three Assyrian kings, who invaded and
exacted tribute from ·Phamicia and Samaria, were--Ptll (whose very
name signifies powerful), Tiglath Pileser (or Ptll-.Anyr--signifying the
powerful.Aayrian king), and, twelve years afterward, Salman-Assyr,
meaning the lover of Peace, or, Solomma of Assyria-an odd assumption
for a warrior.
I attribute the basso-relievo before us, to one of these three conquer·
ing monarchs. Wlaicla of the three, not having yet been able to ascer·
tain, I do not presume to pronounce. They may all, as well as
Nebuchadnezzar who followed, have left sculptured memorials of their
prmtess and atrocities (vulgarly called military glory), among these
Ph«Pnician rocks.-And of fllllicla of the three mighty monarchs I have
now the honour to submit the effigy to your notice, will probably remain
unknown till the literary scholars shall enable us (if they shall ever en-
able us) to read the obeliseal characters in which the verbal inscription
is engraven ; which copious inscription, you will obsene, has nearly
CGvered the figure of his Assyrian majesty, as well as the field of the
arched enclosure in which be stands, resting on that antique symbol or
regal and magisterial authority, which among the languages that were
cognate with the Hebrew, was anciently styled a shebat, and is now
called a sceptre ; as Bishop Newton has explained. The traces of this.
staft' are but faint, the sculpture being much decayed, but they are laef'e.
We can easily conceive .political reasons-reasons founded on the
real or supposed glory of successfu1 WIU'-wby a victorious Assyrian
monarch, subjugating the same country which bad before been subju-.
gated by Sesostris the Great, would choose to record his victoties on
the mme rock.-At the foot of the stair-case, or in the saloon, of Apsley
House, stands a colossal statue of Napoleon, on whose hand a golden
Victory bas alighted. The statue was placed there by the conqueror
of the Conqueror of the Earth, who, in thus honouring his victim, re-
Sects superior honour on himself: Moreover, the treaty of the Egyptitm
conqueror with his tributary Sidonians, is not unlikely to have been
made tl&e 6aais of that of the .AIIJritm king, who followed. He would
have pride in shewing how many more talents be had power to levy ;
or with how much less his moderation was satisfied.
Bible readers will have remarked, that in this enquiry, or enumera-
tion, I have put Sennacherib, who soon followed in the same track with
Pul-Assyr and Salman-Assyr, (that is to say, within about eighteen
years,) out or the question, because of his miraculous discomfiture, his.
hasty retreat, and his subsequent assassination. But before he ap·
proached Jerusalem, he also had pushed his conquests northward to
Hamath, on the Orontes, consequently had, over-run the district through
which ftows the river Lyeus, and where th• rocks are situate.
E
16
I ought, perhaps, to apologise· for pauing the Copious arrow-heacl
inscription which distinguishes this monument, with such slight notice.
I probably should not have been quite so avoidiag, but that I knew
certain learned members of the Doyal Society of Literature, the erudite·
Mr. Cullimore among them, were engaged in endeavouring to de·
cypber it ; and thinking those gentlemen much more likely to succeed
than myself, I at once resolved to restrict my reaearches to the Imitative
art, and to the Astronomy which I had here discovered. Ilappy shall
I be if I shall finally have the fortune to meet· the literary scholars half
way, and by briDging the science of astronomy to meet the light of
letters in the same focal point, that we should·~~ COllCW" iil the
elucidation of Lord Prudhoe's Assyrio-Phe2nician (or All)'rian) relievo,
and of other such interesting monumen~. We can~, indeed, re-
lumine any one, without its redecting more or leas of chronological
light on many other sculptured records. Amid the literary contradic-
tions transmitted by the cltlnieGl, and by the na1iare oriera1411 writers,-
nothing is, just now, more desirable than such luminolis pOints as I am
here seeking.
I scarcely need add, that to enjoy such monuments wid. andquariaa
zest, and duly to apprehend their philosophic&l value, is not a thing for ·
mere cursory attention, relaxed to the toae ofamUIIBment; but requires
that we brace up our minds till tbey are capable of remOte Jetrospec•
tio.n-of accuracy ofnotice-of traDipoitiog tlaeruelvea baekward into
far distant ages, so as to usimiJate modem thoughts with· the original
thinkings of primitive and uD&Opbiaticated nations ; aDd of conceiving
bow artists, astronomers, mythologlltl, and other CODtempJatista, then
felt, and reasoned, and aeted.
Some ofthose gentlemen who now do me the honour to listen, may,
perhaps, have reed within the last few days, an account of the present
monument, which has been recited at the Royal Society of LiteratuJe,
and published in eertain hebdomadal periodieals, wherein it is termed
Penepolitan ; but those very ruiD& of Penepolis, from whence the
learned writer has OlteDiibly drawn his argument, eootravene sueb an
•
17
inference. Astronomy, and other indications, of which I shall presently
speak, out of the question, the Persian Monarchs and Satraps, who are
represented in those Persepolitan sculptures, all wear, not the lofty
tiara with which this relievo presents us, but the .Meditm diadem, as is
shewn in.the masterly delineations of Sir R. K. Porter.
The astronomical signs and symbols which are clustered in the upper
left-band q~t, or space between the pontifical tiara, worn by the
moDai'Cb, and tbe circumscribing. arch-which I shall now proceed to
interpret-will, if I mistake not, enable us to pronounce MIAin ,.,Jacat
period, ancl to wAat tiN of tlte ymr, the monument refers; but do not
enable me to state the pwtieular year in which it was sculptured, or
which it commemorates, because the same conjunction of the celestial
phenomena which is here diaplayed, was of annual recurrence in the
latitude to which the sculptures of AI Kelb are referable, through~t
thOle seven or eight centuries during which the colore of the vernal
equinox intenected the Hyades and Pleiades, or pused through the
head aDd shoulders of the zodiacal Bull, where these· remarkable stan
are posited. .
llmow there are antiquaries who deny that any astronomical monu-
ments are extant, of the remote dates which are here under our con·
templation. They think so because they have looked only at Grecian
remain~, aDd U.tened only to what has been long taught in the schools;
but I, who have looked elaewhere, aDd who believe that there are still
germs olorisfnal information waiting for a gelid soil in which to strike
their roots,. have long since arrived.at a different conclusion, and, as I
cooceive, upon IOUnd, because mathematical, prineiples. While they
have.pinDed. their faith on the sleeve of that Bciellulic eltuiM:alliterature,
which has proved but too careless in its records of science and art, I
bav.e.beeDstudybag sculpturedSabeanmonuments,wbich arencord1 UAto
,.,..,_vu, aod to be read without any such phonetic alphabet, with its
~even lignw and eleven mw, as the learned Tbebans ofEgypt have beea
Cor ten. years trumpeting and endeavouring· to agree about, though they
have DDt yet ag~ Conee~qg aueh Sablean sculptured •noo•nnents
18
as the present, the schools of Europe teacla Ml/aing. Even our own .,.
universities do not, either of them, aft'ord the least elementary instruc-
tion conceming the philosophy of those arts of which the imitation of
nature is the rudiment, or which record ancient science. At the uni·
versities both newand old, sculptured monuments are either unregarded,
or are sealed books.
Before I point out those scientific details upon which my explication
depends-to such of my auditors who have not already, by noticing
their sidereal meaning, anticipated me on these points-permit me
to remind you of three scriptural events: first-That &lman-Assyr
not only vanquished Phamicia and Samaria, but carried the natives of
the latter country into captivity, introducing colonies from his own
dominions in their stead, in order that the conquered country might
not lay desolate; second-That these colonists were of the Sabaean
superstition-that is to say, their adoration of the sun, moon, and
heavenly host, rested on Astronomy, or (if you please) Astrology, which
at that remote period, and among the Orientals, was the same thing;
and, thirdly-That though these star-worshippers could not be said to
bring with them those objects of their religious veneration which in
the clear tropical climates every night gloriously discloses to view, yet
they brought with them that habitual veneration for the celestial lumi..
naries in which they had been educated; and brought with them artisans
who fabricated sueb simulachraor representations ofthese Astral deities
as served to remind their votaries by dayJight, of what could not then
be actually seen, and hence, in their newly adopted country, " the men
of Babylon made Svccotla- Beaotla; the men of Cutb made Nergal; and
the men of Ham-ath made Ashima," as we are informed. in the book of
Kings.
Since our time is limited, we wiiJ for the present pass Nergal and
Ashima-noting only that they were Cutbean and Hamathean names
of the particular constellations, or the stars of magnitude, according to
whose risings and settings tvilla the ,., the worship and the calendars
of the men of Cuth and Ham-ath were regulated. Our present business
19
is with the Succoth-Benoth, that the men of Babylon made; which
Succoth-Benotb we find sculptured, and though now in a mouldering
state, still unequivocally and indubitably discernible, on the present
monument. Yes, those seven small orbs-the Kimah of the book of
Job ; the AI-Thuriaya (or stars of abundance) of the astronomers of
Arabia; the Pleiades of the Greeks; the Vergilia of the Romans; and
simply," the lft1tR stars" of the prophet Amos, (who lived near the era
which I assign to the present relievo)-are the Sw:cotla-Benotla of Baby-
lonia and of the Hebrews-for by the Hebrews also were these stars
adored, during their periods ofaberration from the worship of the true
God.
These two words SwccotA-BenotA, literally mean TENTS of1MJJa.ael8,
and the stars which-copying the Greeks upon no sound principle of
preference-we now term the Pleiades, were thus denominated, in all
probability, from their being clustered so as to resemble the tents of a
distant encampment, and tents oft/eeDmnnls, (or Daughters) from their
supposed genial and exhilirating influence. But though the Hebrew
word Succoth, literally means Tents, Sir William Drummond thinks,
with great probability, that the word, as employed by the Chaldean
astronomers, may primarily be derived from the Chaldaie n=, which
signifies, to speculate or obse"e. These stars were the then place of
intersection, and indicated the precise degrees, of the Zodiac, through
which the colure of the vernal equinox passed during the reigns of
Pul, Tiglath-Plleser, and Salman-Assyr ; but they did not continue so
long afterward, owing to the interesting phenomenon which is termed
the precession of the equinoxes.
But in tvlu&t p~~rl of their annual, diurnal, and nocturnal circuit, are
these genial and exhilirating stars, here represented f Are they losing
their supposed influence1 Are they declining from the meridian to-
wan! the Occident! No: they are in the Orient-in their station of
might and increasing influence. Lords (or ladies, if you please) ofthe
ascendant, they are rising toward the meridian; rising, tvitA tlce ,.,
and of course, with Al-DebarAn.
'p
20
AU these potent astral signs are in the eastern quarter of the seulpo
tllfe, as it is chiselled on the rocks of AI Kelb, toward which· eastern
quarter of the heavens the face of the Assyrian monarch is turned.
This shows that the stan are intended to be understood as M"ff ia
oorajaeliDL They are, as you will but too plainly perceive, very much
decayed, and in some places hardly traceable, at which we· eannot
wonder,. but ought rather to feel agreeable surprise that such decided
vestiges ofthem as we here behold, have survived the five-and-twenty
eenturies of time and accident, in a region 10 mudl expoaed to revolu-
tionary 'W8.1'1. We have a corroborating, and a more distinet represent-
ation, both of these seven stars and of the other celestial phenomena
which appear on our monument, aeulptured on a cylindrieal signet,
whicli was brought, by Sir William Boughton, from the banks of the
Orcmtes, which is within fifty or sixty miles of the rocks of AI Kelb:
of an impression from which signet, I have the pleasure to exhibit an
eolargecl representation; ,.nd an etching of it will be found in page 263
of my volume of" Sa.bman Researches."
Most ofmy auditors are probably aware that .A'-.De6tmfa is literally
(and in the Arabie language)'' the LEADING star,"which I·begofthem
not to forget, because it denotes ~eat. To lead was to com.•
mence and head (like the general of an army) the ,..., llllln:1t of the
,_, of heaven; for in that warlike and semi-barbarous age, militarJ
metaphors and modes of expression were preferred to all others, and
theref<n Al-DebarAn, Uterally the leader, or captain, of the heavenly
host, was thea a phrase in ucellent taste, perfectly conformable, I have
no doubt, to the 6ora-tma of Babylon: and eftD yet, this love of the
phraseology of war, Is &earcely gone out of fashion, ao fond are we, in
this enlightened age, as it calls itself, of tbe eaptaiDI or leaden of the
hosts of earth. We may here add, tbat the same astronomical priests
who named the Pleiades, AI-Thuriaya, or atars of abUDdance, DaJDed
the .AtJk of Taurus, Al-Debuin, or the leader of the celestial host of
Saboath, or &NotA, Utenlly meaning, BtJeNtl .tigu.
Soocoth-Benoth, then-the stars of geaial abuad&Dee, aDd of special
observation-are here rising AeliGcallf with Al-DebarAn. I say empha-
..
21'
timlly, that they are rising Wiact.IU1 [i.e. with the SV.N]; for justabove
them. you will observe a "graven image" (to use Scripture hmguage)
of IAe S. " the lofty orb of luminous eflluence," as he is styled by the
learned D'OJivet, in translating the early Hebrew Scriptures. He is
sculptured here, euetly as I find him represented on the engraved
cylinders of Ninivell aad Babylon (as I can have the pleasure ofshew-
ing to any penon after the conclusion ofthe lecture) ; which cylinders
were, in their origin, cognate with the deification of the ICUipturecl
stars of AI Kelb. Exactly, too, as he is described by the prophet
Ma·Jachi, when rapt into future times : which prophet doubtless copied
his metaphor 1iom the sculptured sun images that were then common
in Judea and throughout Cmlo-Syria; Dalllely, "rising with healiDt
on his fiJiragB," and with rays emanating downward, as if blessing hia
terrestrial votaries. The expression ,.., being taken from the cus-
tomary sculptured representations, and the sculptured representations
intended to express his inceuant rapidity.
Neither was this modeofsculpturing theSun,restrictedtoAssyriaand
the Holy Land; for the sun is thus represented-DiliDely, with wings, if
Dot also with a radiation of blessing influence, proceeding downward-
over the portal ofevery Egyptian temple; over the antique sepulchres
of Nakshi Rustum near Penepolis ; and among the magni8cent
sculptures of Penepolis itself; the only difference beiDg, that in the
Egyptian instanees, the wings 81'8 more ample, f'ashioned with more
refinement, and more like those ofa bird. Mlltoa, searcely less admi..-
able as a lau"Ded antiquary than as a dirine poet, bu illustrated the
vernal heliacal rising of the chief stan ol Taurus; which ~ here
seulptured, in his often-quoted vene-
" - The grey dawn aad the Pleiades
ShecldiDg sweet iDiuence."
But here isforder symboHcal meamng. Upoa whom, or upon what;
are tile stars ot paial abundance, sheddiag their sweet iduence !
They are sheddiag tbia b:lealed, or, more properly, blessing influeace~
22
upon - the .A,naa DovE. Or rather, ,.,J.ea tAe rod MU lfJtdptured;
they were thus shedding their in11uence ; for unhappily, of the Dove,
which bas been held by, or perched on, the right hand of the monarch,
nothing remains but his tail ; upon which, we must take whai care we
are able to scatter alittle antiquarian salt. But perhaps I should rather
say that Mr. Bonomi has done tAu, and we are thereby enabled to mtci
this bird. At least you will probably think these discernible vestiges,
corroborated as they are by sculptured doves on other Assyrian monu•
ments, ofwhich I can produce three ofvery remote antiquity,--suflicient
to redeem this dove from utter oblivion. In short, the Dove is weD
known to have been the ensign or standard, and symbol, of Assyria, a8
we say of the Roman Eagle, or the British Lion. I could also have
produced Scripture evidence here; but the word which in the original
Hebrew is Dove, is in our English Bibles rendered the Oppressor. Je-
remiah wrote, " Flyfrom the sword of the destroyingDow i'' and there
is, I believe, a similar deprecation of Assyrian tyranny, in the book of
Psalms. But as, among us Christians, the dove is the received and
understood emblem of the Holy Spirit-" Fly from the sword of the
oppreiiOI'," while it was not less expressive than the Hebrew, was Car
less liable to be misunderstood.
The remaining star, which ranges with the sun and moon in the
upper line, it I mistake not, is the Ltu:ifer, or Helal-IJa-BWtw of the
Scriptures ; the Hesperus, or Phosphorus, of the Greeks; the planet
Venus of modem astronomy- morning star at the time of the present
horoscope, and which of course would be visible for a short iime after
all other stars were extinguished by the rising orb ofday.
You will next please to observe the remains of. lines, wrought in re-
lievo with no small trouble, and therefore for some desirable purpose ;
which lines descend toward the dove and the Assyrian monarch, from
the orbs above. They are meant, I have no doubt, toexpress the genial
and conjunctive e8luenee, orcelestial virtue, of those stars of Chaldean
adoration-Al-DebarAn (the leader of the heavenly host) ; Bw:cotla-
Beaot/&; Baal (or the lord of the host); and .AIAierotla, and to connect
23
and conduct all toward the Assyrian king and the Assyrian Dove. I
have not before mentioned Asteroth-but Asteroth, Ashdod, Astarte,
or the Moon in her crescent phase, is also here; and though but a
crescent, reSects her full share of historical alld chronological, or anti·
quarian, light, on the present very interesting production. Her presence
in conjunction with the Sun, in the sign Taurus, marks with great
precision tAe season oftAe gea1·, when either victory was gained, or the
consequent treaty between Assyria and Phmnicia was ratified ; or the
season of annual recurrence, when the tribute imposed would be de-
maDded by the officers of the conqueror; or perhaps all of these. We
are not to forget here, that the vanquished Phrenicians, as well as the
conquering Assyrians, were of the Sabman persuasion; and that there-
fore this sculptured astronomical record, if not the long verbal record
which covers the royal robe, and has nearly covered all the lower part
of the monument,-would be understood by both nations. I submit,
however, that even tvielwut reading the latter, here is str~ng presump-
tive evidence that the deities of their mutual adoration were recipro-
cally believed to have sanctioned, and even ordained, their treaty, and
were in a manner witnessing parties to it, as.having beenpreM&t at its
ratification : for these ancient people had no other idea of their astral
gods, than that they were " dispolera." Herodotus assures us that this
was the etymological and primitive signification of the word for deities.
They were believed to be disposers of terrestrial events, and prime
authors of the fate of nations, as well as of individuals, whether felicit-
ous, or unfortunate.
These lines of e8111ent virtue, when regarded together with other
such which are found on some of the Assyrian cylinders, seem further
to let us into the knowledge of that article of the Sablean faith, which
taught that all sublunary good was primarily derived from the greater
luminaries-the supreme deities of the Oriental idolary, to whom the
other stars were but as agents, satraps, or ministers.
That such Jines of e8luent, or emanating, virtue, were thus under-
stood, and that they were not uncommon on Sabean monuments, may
be further evinced by the Pleiades throwing their radiance in the same
G
---·-"
24
manner toward the Cassiopea, or Cvaliopeia, o( the Babylonian sphere,
on the cylinder possessed by Sir Wm. Boughton.
These chief stars of Taurus, had other claims to SabEaD homage :
they were the sacredly accredited, and profoundly venerated, signsofthe
solatitisl,as well as ofthe t16nUII, season. At that remote period ; namely,
from seven to eleven centuries previous to the commencement of our
era-just before the sun rose in Leo, which was then his solstitial sta·
tion, they glowed in meridional splendour; and in the southern latitudes,
to which we are alluding, they culminated from very nearly the zenith,
always a station of dignity, and among the Chaldean astronomers, of
the very highest dignity; and they thus eulminated, as Baal majestically
arose from beneath the horizon. At this diurnal morning season oftheir
sidereal observations, when the Chaldean hierophants beheld the
Pleiades on the meridian, they knew that midsummer had arrived, and
prepared to bail with due solemnity the solstitialSun, rising in Leo. On
the other band, when these stars were just visibly above the horizon in
the morning erepuiculum, they knew that the Nouroze festival ap-
proached : they looked with pious anxiety for the crescent Moon, and
the moment that she also appeared, the sacerdotal trumpet sounded, and
the vernal sacrifices commenced.
As we can easily and briefty illustrate these problems by the celestial
globe, we will, if you please, in that manner conclude the present even-
ing's discourse. Now, the latitude of Sidon and of the Lycus, or AI
Kelb, is somewhere about 33° 30' N. When I shall have elevated
the arctic pole to 33° 30', gentleJDen will soon see, that when the
solstitial sun rosa there with Leo, the Pleiades must have attained
their meridian altitude, just as the star Regulus ascended from the
horizon heliacally; and also, that the Pleiades.~ and Al-DebarAn (of the
first magnitude) must, during the reigns of Pul, Tiglath-Pileser, and
Salman-Assyr, have pastled over those clear·skied latitudes,-not dimly
as they do here at pre.tent, but in all the glowing brilliancy of their
beauty-in aU the exaltation of·their sublimity-in all the effulgent
sublimity of their holiness !
1
This reference to the gJobe,-when taken with what else I have had
the honour of submitting,-may serve to shew that the present monu-
ment appertains, or belongs to, the f~ distant date which I have as·
signed to it, as well as to the southern latitude whence we know it was
brought. Having subjected it to this criterion, I have probably done
all that you at present expect, in the way of manifesting the truth of
the construction I have put upon a mutilated and time.worn work of
ancient art and science, produced at least five-and-twenty centuries ago.
To mistake second causes for ftrst causes, or concomitancy for causa·
tion, is so frequent and so common to most ofus, as to call for the indul-
gence of reciprocal toleration at least; which perhaps you will liberally
infer should reach to our remote ancestry. How then shall we forbear
to think that in countries such as Babylonia and Phamicia, where reve.
lation had not reached, and in whose clear climate~ stars seem to shed
a more sacred light than through the haze of our northern latitudes-
how shall we forbear to think such a religion as their inhabitants pro.
fessed, should " have been accounted unto them for righteousness.''
I
