{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__stone___matthias_and_his_impostures____1st.pdf","mytitle":"Matthias And His Impostures","mylang":"de"}
HIS IMPOSTURES:
OR, THE
P R 0 G R E S S 0 F F A N AT I 0 I S l\i.
ILLUSTRATED IN THE EXTRAORDINARY CASE
or
ROBERT l\IATTHEWS,
AND SOliE OF HIS FORERUNNERS A:-!D DISCIPLES.
11 11 ill eomports l'l"ith the nujt:sly of tr'llth, or the eba.r.telt'r o( God, to belie't'e that he
bas built the noblest supentructure on the wea.kNI Cound;~.tion; or reiuced mank:iad to lho
znisen.blc alternative either of remaioir~« destitute or the luaoiVled&"e of binaelf1 or of de.
ti•int it from the SOI.I.rte or impiou1 impos:nre!'-Rcbal Hall.
BY WILLIAM L. STONE.
,. ' •':'/·.
•. r,r~, ..,~ c
,~ l~tt"~).~·l n
NEW- Y 0 R K: i.,r. •t ~ l1 ~
If<\ 'l~ ~)- •.d
PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTiftRS, 1'.:-.:.;;4' · '
NO. 82 CLIFF•STREET, ~1·~l-~t!t!
,A,I(J) BOI,D BY Tll& PRI!'fCII'AL BOOKSELL&RA TUR0~~~~1 THJ:
UNJTIED ST.\T}:S.
1 8 3 5.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1835,
lly HARPER & BRoTHERs,
In the Clerk's Oflice of the Southern District of New-York.
PREFACE.
IT was not until the last week in the recent
month of April, that the idea of the present work
was suggested. In conversation with a distin-
guished clerical friend, upon the subject of Mat-
thias and his impostures, particularly in regard to
-the respectability of the people whom he had suc-
ceeded in leading so widely astray, the writer
mentioned the fact, that, after all, the pretended
prophet was bnt a circumstance, as it were, in a
series of delusions originating in fanaticism twelve
or thirteen years since, which, in their progress,
had been marked at different periods, •by trans·
actions and absurdities scarcely less censurable,
or extraordinary, than the gross impieties of the
arch-impostor himself. With a great number of
facts in relation to the matters referred to, the writer
had become acquainted as they transpired; and in
the belief that he could possess himself of all
others essential to a continuous history of one of
4 PREFACE.
the most singular and extraordinary delusions that
have ever appeared, and flourished for so great a
length of time, among an intelligent Christian
people, he suggested the idea of collecting the
particulars, and publishing them in a little volume.
" Do it by all means, if you can obtain the facts,"
was, in substance, the reply. Before, however,
the work was seriously undertaken, the writer
mentioned the project to a number of clerical, and
other religious friends, by every one of whom he
was urged to proceed. The materials were mostly
collected early in the month of May-since which
period the work itself has been written, at intervals
of time, and amidst the calls of a daily occupation,
which is as endless as the circle.
At the time when the composition of the work
was commenced, and even after the first sheet had
been stereotyped, the writer was not certain of
obtaining access to the private prayers, medita-
tions, and other manuscripts, of the late Elijah
Pierson ; nor did he then anticipate so full and
interesting a narrative of the connection of Mr.
and Mrs. Folger with Matthews and Pierson,
as he has since been so fortunate as to obtain;
although from the first, he was promised assistance
from that quarter. The papers of Mr. Pierson
are alike curious, remarkable, and interesting ;
and the narrative of Mr. and Mrs. Folger, which
PREFACE. 5
has been incorporated in the work entire, forms
one of the strangest chapters in the history of the
human mind, that have ever been written. It also
raises the veil which has hitherto concealed from
the public eye, the proceedings of Matthews and
his disciples in the " Mount Zion" of Singsing,
and gives a full account of the internal police of
that establishment. The writer has likewise suc-
ceeded in obtaining a larger number of facts and
anecdotes respecting the impostor, and authentic
details of interviews and conversations with him,
than he at first expected ; so that the work has
grown in the process of its preparation, to up-
ward of a hundred pages more than was originally
intended. Still, it is believed the reader will not
be wearied in the perusal. Much available matter
has been omitted, and nothing has been retained
which was not deemed essential to the object and
design of the work. It is often necessary, for the
cause of truth, to expose opinions, which, in them-
selves, are so monstrous as not to merit a moment's
consideration.
Unless the writer is greatly deceived, these
pages will be found to comprise a history that is
perfectly unique-a delusion sui generis-whether
arising from individual fanaticism, or enthusiasm,
or madness ; or combined, or individual imposture.
It has been contended by some mental philoso·
6 PREFACE.
phers, that "men do not so much believe in any
error as in truth, and that there is no error in which
there is not some share, however small, of truth."
llut this proposition will not stand for a moment,
against the errors disclosed in the following pages,
made up as they are of the pure and unmixed
elements of falsehood. This fact, then, for such
it must be esteemed, overthrows entirely the
theory of Victor Cousin, who says, in commenting
upon Locke's chapter on the causes of error, that
he " shall never cease to repeat, that there is no
total error in an intelligent and rational being.
Men of genius, and ordinary men, unquestionably
give in to many errors, and attach themselves to
them; but not that to which makes them errors, but
to the part of truth which is in them." And again,
" It is the truth, joined to the error, which gives
to the error all its force, which gives it birth, sus-
tains it, spread.- it, explains and excuses it." The
writer apprehends, however, that it would puzzlt~
l\1. Cousin, and e\·en Leibnitz himself, whom the dis-
tinguished Psychologist recognizes as the greatest
of modern authorities, to find the slightest ad-
mixture of trurh, in the system imposed upon his
followers by Robert l\iatthews.
The writer's design was to render the work a
simple record, or narrative, of facts, without aiming
at the embellishments of learning, or of rhetoric, or
PREFACE• 7
the indulgence oftheoretical or philosophical specu-
lation. In the execution of his design, it has been
his study to spare the feelings, and avoid giving
the names, of individuals, as far as could be done
with propriety, or the obligations to truth would
allow. And he has throughout endeavoured to
act in strict obedience to the Iaw of kindness-ex-
ercising, withal, the same measure of charity
which he would himself desire to be meted to him
in return, under the like circumstances. Indeed,
in this latter respect, he may be charged by some,
with having gone too far. It may possibly be urged,
that in a land like ours, no man can, innocently,
receive any thing which grossly contradicts divine
revelation. The Scriptures, on leading and funda-
mental truths, are so plain that he who runs may
read: and it may therefore be contended, that he
who, with his lliblc in his hand, receives such a
being as l\Iatthews in the character of God the
Father, has a heavy account to settle at God's bar.
It is readily granted, that to hold up individuals
who had blindly embraced such a monstrous heresy,
while of sound mind, as subjects of pity and
compassion merely, and.without awarding to them
a very heavy degree of censure, would be reflect-
ing upon God, diminishing the sense of man's
responsibility, and dishonouring the blessed reve-
lation of the i\:lost High. But the severity of cen-
8 PREFACE.
sure must be visited only in proportion to the
soundness of the mind of the victim, and the ex·
tent to which reason is dethroned by the delusion.
"With these preliminary remarks, the work is com•
mitted to the public. The writer sincerely hopes
it may be of some service to the cause of evangel·
'i ical truth, if in no other way, by guarding Christian
, \
11
professors against the indulgence of a self-righteous
" • . and fanatical spirit, and also against the dangers of
,. ~
,.,, ...., enthusiasm. If, through ignorance, or mistaken
' •
1
views of truth or from any other cause, he has
-:-.J.\y
1 ~~ said aught amiss, he begs that it may be forgotten
.\' ' \ and forgiven.
~ \~
J "'
<./
b ·'
New-York, June 12, 1835.
'('
,f
MATTHIAS
AND
H I S I 1\'I P 0 S T U R E S.
CHAPTER I.
Preliminary Remarks-Early Life of Matthews-Comes toNew•
York, and acquires a Trade-Returns to the Country, and
commences Merchant-Marries in New.York-Becomes a
Bankrupt-Returns to his old Employment in New-York-
Again retires to the Country-Removes to Albany-Religious
Excitement-Becomes an ultra Temperance Advocate-
Grows fanatical-Disturbs Public Worship-Flies from AI·
bany in the Night with three of his Children-Excitement and
Alarm-Strange Conduct- Arrest-Street-preaching in AI·
bany-Changes his Name-Mission to the West and South-
Advent in New-York.
"I H AVE always observed, that when people be-
come better than the Bible, they are very apt to be
wrong." Such, recently, was the remark of one of
the ablest and wisest of American divines, in refer-
ence to the ultraism of the day, in matters of philan-
thropy and religion, more especially in regard to the
professions and practices of those who have been
designated as "new-measure men," in the production
and conduct of religious revivals. It was an obser-
vation full of wisdom. Nothing can be more dan-
B
14 niATTHIAS A:\'D
gerous in spiritual matters than tampering with lhe
sacred Scriptures, either by adding to, or taking from,
the simple letter of the written word, or wre;ting its
plain and obvious meaning. Thatholy book proclaims,
in the language ofRobert Hall," a doctrine, full, pure,
perfect, to which nothing can be added without de-
basing its spirit, nothing taken away without impair-
ing its proportions-committed to our tru:=t to be re-
tained and preserved just as we have received it."
There is no passage in the sacred volume uttered
with more tremendous emphasis than its solemn
conclusion :-"I testify unto evm-y man that hem·eth
the words of the p1'ophecy of this boo~·. if any man
shall add unto these things, God slwll add unto him
the plagues that m·e wrillen in this book: .!lnd if
any nwn shall take away from the wo1·ds of the book
of this p!·ophecy, God shall take mvay his pa1·t out
of the book of life, ltnd out of the holy city, and fmm
the things that are tm·illcn in this book." This is
a fearful denunciation. God has always punished,
with the infliction of signal and lamentable delusion,
all who have dared to claim for themselves imme-
diate inspiration from Heaven ;-they and their fol-
lowers, like Theudas, who boasted himself to be
somebody, have wandered into the wilderness of
error ;-it is well if they have not suffered the penal-
ties of guilt.
And yet, notwithstanding the miserable end and
overthrow of most former impostors and their
schemes, with the exception of that stupendous de-
lusion which yet stands a miracle in the Moslem
power, the world is as full of them at this day of
JIJS DIPOSTURES, 15
boasted intelligence, even among Christians, as ever
it was. Nor are they now, more than of old, con-
fined to the professors of Christianity. Strange as
it may appear, enthusiasm, fanaticism, and impos-
ture have ever been as rife among those religionists
whose crude belief was itself an imposition, as
among those whose faith stands upon the word of
the Eternal, and the truth of which has been sealed
by the blood of His Son. Thus is imposture itself
imposed upon, and the priests of falsehood, circum-
vented by those who are in reality no greater de-
ceh•ers than themselves, are often cheated of their
disciples, who, in their new delusion, are· no more
deluded thmi they were before, The Hindoo is
cheated by the fakirs ; the cool and philosophic
1\Ius~ulman is deceived by the dervis; and even
the unsophisticated pagans of the North American
forests are carried away by the puerile incantations
of their own medicine-men.
l~zy:_gf religio_us J.m~ostures~ld form a ~
~ry !>f.Jlself.j_'f~hu_nEtn mind, in all !1~ an~ \
~ountries, and under all forms of government_a!_l_d I
religion, seems to ha1•e been wonderfully susceptible
of delusion and iinposition upon that subject, which, I
of all others, is the most important both for time 1
anc! eternity. The court of Egypt was deluded by
the impostors who undertook to contend with l\Ioses;
and the chosen people themselves, notwithstanding
the direct disclosures which the l\Iost High had
made of himself in all their wonderful history, were
prone to turn aside from the worship of the true
God, to follow the lying spirits of the prophets of
16 MATTHIAS AND
Baal and other deceivers, from the days of 1\Ioses
till the destruction of Jerusalem.-" The p1·ophets
prophesy falsely; the priests bem·1·ztle by thei1· means;
and my people lot·e to have it so," was the testimony
of Jeremiah. So likewise under the Christian
dispensation, from the defection of Simon 1\Iagus to
the wild delirium of Edward Irving, there have been
a succession of Antichrists, until their name is le-
gion--pretenders to Divine missions, the power of
working mira'Cles, the gift of tongues-perverting
the Scriptures, "leading astray silly women,'' and
men too,-destroying the peace of families, throwing
communities into confusion, and firebrands into the
Church,-clouding the understandings·and blinding
the moraJ. perceptions- of men, and subverting the
faith of those, even, whose mountains stood strong,
and who had been counted among the chosen people
of God.
Doubtless there have been instances in which the
impostors have themselves been partially deranged
-in which intense application, or much learning,
• may have made them mad-possessing, however,
' : · enough_of method in their madness~ like EdWard
, •
1
l l~g, to involve others in the same hallucinations
· with themselves. In other cases, as with the Puri- ·
tans, and the persecutions for witchcrafi in the early '
days of New-England, the actors have been im-
pelled by strong but mistaken views of duty-verily
believing that they were doing God service. But
in a vast majority of instances, as with the recreant
convert of Philip, the instruments of imposture have
been full of all subtlety and mischief-children of
JIIS !)!POSTURES. 17
,,,e fallen Son of the Morning. "In the last days,"
says the Apostle Peter, "there shall come sco.ff'ers,
tva/king aflel·their own lusts,"-" chiefly them which
walk aftel' the flesh, in the lust of uncleanness, and
d~spise government; Jlresumptuotts m·e they, self-
tvilled, they are not afraid to spealc evil of dignities;
sporting themselves in thei1· own deceiving's, having
eyes full of pdultel'!/> and that cannot cease fi'om sin;
beguiling unstable souls ; for when they spealc great
swelling IVOl'ds of vanity, they allure through the
' lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those
that tt•ere clean escaped fi·om them who live in error;
while they promise them liberty, they themselves are
the servants of cor1·uption." And again the Apostle
Jude admonishes us "lo remembe1· /hat /hey were
forctolcl as mocke1·s, who should be in the last time,
1vho shoulcl walk aflel· their own ungodly lusts.
These be they who separate themselves, sensual, not
having the spi1-it."
It is wonderful to observe with what precision
these prophecies have been fulfilled by the clouds
of impostors who have appeared-"spoken great
swollen words of vanity," and fallen-since the in-
spired sentences were uttered. And it may be re-
garded as one of the evidences of the truth of in-
spiration, that had the long array of apostates and
deceivers actually stood before the sacred penmen
at the time of their writing, their characters all naked
before them, the likenesses, from the first Christian
apostate to the sensual Mormons, could not have
been drawn with greater fidelity. Whether among
the number, and though last not least, may be
B2
18 MATTHIAS AND
ranked the principal subject of the following pages,
will be left for the reader to determine after their
perusal.
RoBERT 1\iATTHEWs-for that is the real name
of the subject of this history-is a native of Wash-
ington county, in the State of New-York, and of
Scotch extraction. He is about forty-five years of.
age, and of respectable parentage, though a mental
eccentricity has characterized several members of
the family. He was left an orphan at a tender age,
and was brought up in the family of a respectable
farmer in the town of Cambridge, in the county al-
ready mentioned, belonging to the church of the
Anti- burgher branch of Seceders. ' It is related of
him, that when the clergyman visited the family on
a certain occasion, to catechise the children, he be-
came much pleased with 1\'Iatthews, then about
seven years of age. As the good man departed, he
laid his hand on the head of Robert, and gave him
his blessing. From that moment the lad said he
always expected to become a distinguished per-
sonage.
• At the age of about twenty years, 1\'Iatthews came
to the city of New-York, and worked at the business
of a carpenter and house-joiner, which he had par-
tially learned in the country, and in which occupa-
tion he became a first-rate workman. He had
always a fine mechanical genius, as had also two
of his brothers, at least; one of whom resided in
Rochester a few years since, where he died ; and
the other, who, self-instructed, had become a por-
liiS 1:\IPOSTURES. 19
I
trait painter of some excellence, also died within
~ few years, in the western part of New-Yorlt,
msane.
From tho excellence of his work, he had full em-
ployment in those branches requiring the greatest
skill. The consequence was, that in the course of
a few years he accumulated money enough to en-
able him to return to Cambridge, _
and commence
business as a country merchant. He was con-
sidered a very respectable man, made a profession
• of religion in connection with the Scotch Presby-
terian church, and continued for some years without
doing any thing to excite suspicion as to the sound-
ness of his head or heart. He was considered, in-
deed, as ranking rather above the average cast of
men in his neighbourhood ; and although naturally
somewhat vain of his own parts, and not a little
elated by his success, and the good opinions enter-
tained of him, yet his conduct was unexceptionable,
and he courted and enjoyed the society of those who
were above the sphere in which he had recently
moved.. If extravagant in his habits at this time, it
was only in the article of dress, of which he was
always vain.
He was married in the year 1813, in the city of
New-York (while on a visit for the purchase of
goods), to a young lady, the daughter of a respect-
able Scotch mec~anic, who had formerly resided in
Washington county, where his daughter was born.
Returning to Cambridge, he continued business as a
merchant three or four years longer, and was still
considered a very respectable man, maintaining
20 MATTIIIAS AND
his standing in the church as a regular worshipper
and a consistent Christian. About a year after the
close of the war, say in 1816, he commenced build-
ing a large edifice for a store, but became unfor-
tunate in his pecuniary affairs, and failed before its
completion-involving in his ruin an aged and
honest mechanic, who, by industry and frugality, had
secured a competency for his family. Some hard
things were said of Matthews in relation to these
transactions ; but, perhaps, without any greater or
more aggravated cause than is to be found in most·
cases of similar misfortune. _
Being thus broken up in his mercantile business,
he returned to New-York with his family, and re-
sumed his former handicraft as a house-joiner.
He remained in the city four or five years, but was
not satisfied with such employment, and resolved
once more to try his fortunes in his native county;
for which purpose he removed to the town of Ar-
gyle, where he followed the occupation of a mill-
wright. Not succeeding to his wishes, however,
he removed to Albany in 1827 or '28, and resumed
the joiner's business as a journeyman, taking good
care of his family, and attending constantly upon
the public services in the sanctuary-attaching him-
self to the congregation of the Dutch Reformed
Church, then under the pastoral care of the Rev.
Dr. Ludlow. The reason of his leaving the Scotch
Church, to which he had previously belonged, was
understood to be some personal difficulty with his
minister in lVashington county, resulting in a settled
dislike to that denomination. He very soon ap-
IIIS UIPOSTURES. 21
peared to take an increasing interest in religious
matters ; attended church and social prayer meet-
ings, and conversed frequently upon the subject.
Some time subsequent to this period, the late Dr.
Cheste~ being absent for his health, notice was
given that a young clergyman from New-York, the
Rev. 1\Ir. Kirk, was to occupy the pulpit on a cer-
tain evening. Matthews went to hear him, and on
his return home appeared to be in a state of great
excitement, declaring that he had never heard any
thing like preaching before, and sat up the greater
part of the night repeating, expounding, and com-
mending passages from the sermon. His enthu-
siasm was so great that 1\irs. Matthews remarked
to her daughter in the course of the night, "If your
father goes to hear this man preach any more, he
will go wild or crazy." He did go again to hear
him a number of times-was always exceedingly
pleased, and became more and more excited. Still
he behaved rationally enough until one evening
when he went to hear 1\Ir. Finney. The services
were continued until a late hour, and 1\Iatthews
came home in a state bordering upon phrensy.
It was not long before a church was formed for
1\Ir. Kirk in Albany, to which Matthews made ap-
plication for admission ; stating that he was already
a member of a church in Washington county. In-
quiries were made into his character by the session ;
but on sending to Cambridge, a letter, or certificate,
from the church to which he had formerly belonged
was withheld. At that time, as the writer is informed
by a gentleman who was then an officer of that
22 • l\IATTHIAS AND
church, he exhibited no symptoms of eccentricity,
or of a disorganized mind.
At about the same time, Matthews engaged ac-
tively in the temperance reform, in which he laboured
with all his might; but he was ultra in his notions,
-contending that the use of meats should be ex-
cluded, as well as of strong drinks.
A brother of Mrs. l\Iatthews, now a respectable
tradesman in New-York, who had resided some
years with his sister soon after her marriage, made
him a visit just at this crisis. He was kindly re-
ceived by Matthews, and observed no alteration in
his manners, except that he soon introduced religion
as a subject of conversation, which was contrary to
his former habits ; for although, as we have seen, a
professor of religion, yet he had never in former
years shown himself forward or ostentatious in these
matters, but was, on the contrary, rather reserved.
He now inquired of his brother-in-law whether he yet
remained in connection with the Scotch church, and
being answered in the affirmative, replied, "Why,
I wonder at that : you are all wrong : I used to think
that church was right, too ; but I find that although
I have been a professor these twenty years, I never
had any religion until now-never until I heard the
preaching of Mr. Kirk and Mr. Finney."
As he continued his religious conversation, he
gradually became excited, and in the end somewhat
vehement,-especially on the subject of temperance
-strenuously maintaining that intemperance was
the great evil at the root of the matter, and that the
world cou)~ all be converted, if men would only live
UIS n!POSTURES. 23
up to pure temperance principles. Already had he
introduced a rigid system of temperance dietetics in
his own household-not allowing the use of "meats,
and keeping his family upon bread, fruits, and vege-
tables. It was then the season of blackberries, and
these, with bread and vegetables, constituted the
sole diet during this visit of his relative-who left
him in a frame of enthusiasm bordering upon fanat-
ICism. Indeed, there were moments when, from
the wildness of his eye, the brother-in-law began to
tremble for his reason, as also did the relatives· in
N cw-York on hearing of his proceedings.
During the year 1829, his conduct became more
and more wild and unregulated. His employment
was still that of a journeyman house-joiner ; but in-
stead of minding his work, he fell into the practice
of exhorting the workmen during the hours of la-
bour, and of expounding the Scriptures to them in a
novel and enthusiastic manner, until at length he be-
came so boisterous, that his employer, a very pious
man, was obliged to discharge him from his service.
He claimed at this time to have received by revela-
tion some new light llpon the subject of experi-
mental religion, but did not as yet lay claim to the
l\Iessiahship, or to any supernatural power. Being
thus discharged from regular employment, however,
he had abundant leisure for street-preaching, which
he commenced in a vociferous manner,-exhorting
every one he met upon the subjects of temperance
and religion, and holding forth to crowds at the
comers of the streets. Having made a convert of
one of his fellow-workmen, they procured a large
24 lilATTHIAS AND
white flag, on which was inscribed, "Rally round the
Standard of Truth ;" this they raised on a pole, and
bore through the streets every morning, haranguing
the multitudes whom their strange appearance and
demeanour attracted. A young student of divinity,
catching the infection, as it seemed, united himself
with Matthews, and with him visited the abodes of
profligacy, intemperance, and vice, on the Sabbath
days,_
preaching repentance to their inmates. But
he was yet of sound mind, apparently, if he chose so
to appear. ,The venerable Dr. Proudfit informs the
writer, that during this year he fell in with Matthews
at a meeting of the Young Men's Bible Society of
Albany, and that he conducted himself in a manner
perfectly unexceptionable. He introduced himself
with an agreeable address, and appeared very devout,
and much engaged in the cause.
In his street-preaching, consisting for the most
part of more incoherent harangues than are often
uttered by men in any condition of mind, his de-
clared object was the conversion of the whole city
of Albany,-a work which he had been commis'-
sioned to undertake..- In the spring of 1830, finding
that the city would not be converted, he declared to
his wife that it would be destroyed, and he thereupon
began to proclaim the impending destruction of the
Albanians and their capital publicly.
It was about this time that, coming home one
night, he sat down before a table to shave himself,
with an open Bible before him, in which he read
while preparing the soap for the_operation. All of a
sudden he exclaimed, "I have found it-I have
IllS IMPOSTURES.
found a text which proves that no man who shaves
his beard can be a true Christian;" and thereupon
declared that he would go to the installation of Dr.
Wilson (that having been his intention when he sat
down to shave) with his beard untouched. His
wife remonstrated, but to no purpose ; and he went,
unshaved, to attend the ceremony. "While it was in
progress he continued quiet, until near the close,
when he stood up and requested from the congrega-
tion leave to ascend the pulpit and address them.
lleing well known, the permission was given, but,
to the great astonishment of his hearers, he burst
forth in wild ravings, denouncing vengeance against
the people and the land; and, claiming authority from
God, announced to the people, that the end of the
Gentiles was come-that he was commanded to take
possession of the world in the name of the King of
kings-that all nations and institutions established
on any other foundation than the law of God were
henceforth dissolved-and that the law of God was
from that date the only rule of government for the
world. He attempted to continue his harangue, but
before he had time to finish it, or to proclaim the full
purport of his commission, the lights were extin-
guished, and the people dispersed.
Like the Jewish prophet of evil to the city of Je-
rusalem, during the siege by Vespasian, l\latthews
continued his denunciations of wo against the city
for several days-frequently urging his wife to fly
with him from the approaching destruction. Finally,
about the middle of June, soon afier midnight, he
nroused his wife and her five children from their
c
26 I'IATTHIAS AND
slumbers, and told them they must fly with him to
the hills, as the city would be destroyed the next
day. Not being able to persuade the former into
his belief, he then declared his purpose o( escaping
himselt; with his children, leaving the mother to de-
struction. The eldest d.mghtcr, however, being of
age sufficient to discover the wildness and absurdity
of her father's conduct, refused to accompany him ;
the mother clung to the infant; while the semi-lu-
natic or impostor took with him his three little boys
--the eldest six, and the youngest but two years of
age-and departed in the dead of night.
The mother at first thought but little of the oc-
currence, having seen hi~ vagaries so frequently of
late, and presuming that by morning light they would
all be safely at home again. But mowing came,
and the day passed, and they did not return. He
seemed indeed to have left the city, nor could any
trace of him be discovered. Her anxiety now be-
ca'l!e intense, as also was that of the citizens to
whom she communicated the circumstances. An
alarm was given, and the people turned out in great
numbers to search for the wanderers. It was se-
riously apprehended that the father might have put
them to death and destroyed himself. The unhappy
mother's distress increased with every succeeding
hour ; the press sounded the alarm ; and the mayor
issued a proclamation, announcing the facts, and
offering a reward for the return of the children.
But a few days elapsed, however, before tidings
were received that the fugitives were all safely
housed in the town of Argyle, Washington county.
HIS HIPOSTtiRES. 27
·l,fatthews had a sister living in Argyle, a distance
of forty miles from Albany ; and it subsequently ap-
peared that the cruel parent had travelled the whole
distance, regardless of the tender years of his chil-
dren, without stopping-going the whole way on
foot--and arriving at the house of his sister shortly
after midnight, and in twenty-four hours from the
time of his departure from Albany. Under any
other circumstances, the children would have sunk
midway from fatigue; but the terror in which they
were kP.pt by their father seemed to invest them
with supernatural strength.
Arousing his sister and her family from their
sleep, he greatly terrified them by his conduct.
They had heard nothing of his strange proceedings ;
and his incoherent raving~, coming thus suddenly
upon them, and at such a gloomy hour, were ap-
palling. He declared that he had fled with his
children from Albany, which was to be destroyed
on the day of his flight, and he supposed that his
wife and the remaining children, who, like the sons
and daughters of Lot, had refused to escape, were
destroyed also. His sister admitted them with fear
and trembling, not doubting that he was raving mad.
Ha\·ing partaken of some refi·eshments, notwith-
standing his fatigue, and the still greater weariness
ofhischildren,-sinking from exhaustion,-he would
not allow them to be taken to bed, or to leave his
side, until after the performance of his evening
devotions. He then pulled a Bible from his
bosom, and after reading a chapter, and singing a
hymn, in which his children were compelled to join,
28 MATTHIAS AND
thus closed this first day of his wanderings as a
prophet.
The next day, being the Christian Sabbath, :Mat-
thews repaired to the old church in Argyle, entered
during the service, and, walking midway up the aisle,
while the minister was yet preaching, broke forth
into one of his vociferous exhortations. He de-
clared that on the preceding day, judgment had
been pronounced at Stillwater, on all kingdoms, na-
tions, and institutions not founded on the law of
God. He denounced the congregation there pres-
ent, as sitting in darkness, and wamed them to re-
pent ; and proceeded to finish what he called his
declaration. He was of course seized and taken
out of the church for thus disturbing the public wor-
ship ; and on the receipt of the tidings of his flight
from Albany, was carried back to his family.
Here again his conduct continued equally strange
as before. Having now suffered his beard to grow
for many weeks, it began to look formidable. He
continued to traverse the streets, in grotesque attire,
and to utter his violent declamations, and harangue
such crowds as he could collect around him. Re-
, peatedly was he arrested for disturbances of the
\ peace by his performances, and was sometimes con-
' fined on suspicion of lunacy ; but, crazy or not, he
.-.1
··'\ iwas always discharged on examination, as of sound
1
mind. He next disposed of his working tools, and
,. ~ 1rged his wife to relinquish labour and follow him.
She remonstrated ; but he persisted ; and in reply to
1, her inquiries how she and her children were to be
\ provided for, he said they must live by faith-that
Ll\
~J
HIS IMPOSTURES. 29
the Almighty would provide for them-and that if
they had no other supplies, food enough might be
found among the roots and herbs of the woods. It
was their duty to go upon a mission for the conver-
sion of the world, and their wants would all be
supplied.
l\Irs. Matthews had of course too much sense to
listen to these vagaries of fanaticism, and rf'fused to
go. Ile for a time yet continued his street-preach-
ing, urging to repentance, temperance, and abstinence
from meats, and growing daily more and more loud
and boisterous, and more savage in his looks. lie
denounced all who refused to follow his doctrines,
though his ravings were so disjointed and hetero-
geneous that nobody could under~tand them, and
vented curses upon tho~e who scoffed and derided
him. He read hi~ llible much, particularly the
Old Tesl~ent, and poured forth quotations in the
greatest profusion, but without method, · fitness, or
adaptation -rendering its sublimest passages but
a confused an<!_ incoherent jumble of words, and odds
and ends of sentences ; and yet then' was often a
shrewdness in some of his own sayings, particularly
in reply to questions, or in an occasional repartee,
which raised a laugh, and convinced his miscella- \
neous auditors that he was less of a fool than a
knave. llut from the wild screams and piercing
exclamations which he indulged in his incompre-
hensible orations, he became a nui~ance of which
the people had great cause of complaint.
It was now that he assumed the name of Mat-
thias, and gave out that he was a Jew. He then
C2
30 J>iATTHIAS AND
departed upon his mission for the conversion of the
world, taking a western course, for the purpose of
visiting his brother in Rochester, and everywhere
attracting attention, from the length of his beard and
the novelty of his behaviour. This brother, as has
already been remarked, was a rare mechanic-in-
ventive and curious. Before his death, he had ob-
tained between thirty and forty patents for as many
different mechanical discoveries. The itinerant
preacher soon quarrelled with his brother, however,
and his stay in Rochester was but a fortnight; and
it was then, and from J.h!mce, that he commenced
his first grand apostolic tour. "While in the anti-
masonic region of New-York, he declaimed against
fi·ee-masonry, as against what he considered other
abominations of the land. Directing his face to-
wards the setting sun, he traversed the 1Yestern
States, through the deep forests, and over the prairies,
until he had proclaimed his mission amid the wilds
of the Arkansas. From thence he turned his steps
to the south-east-recrossed the Father of Rivers,
traversed the States of Mississippi and Tennessee,
and penetrated the Cherokee country, in Georgia,
and commenced preaching to the Indians. Here
he was seized by the authorities of Georgia, and
imprisoned ;-but he was an overmatch for them.
They knew not what to make of his conduct, or
what to do with him. His appearance was eccen-
tric ; his kindling eye flashed with fury as he poured
forth his maledictions upon them ; and they were at
length constrained to unbar the prison-doors, and
bid him depart. From thence he bent his footsteps
liiS IMPOSTURES. 31
to the North, and passing through Washington,
came to the city of New-York. He immediately
visited the brother-in-law heretofore mentioned, and
was at first very mild and agreeable in his manners
and conversation, though of course forbidding in his
aspect, since his temporal affairs did not then enable
him to array himself in broadcloth and gold, and fine
linen, and his beard presented a most unchristian
appearance. On being asked why he had assumed
such a disguise-why he had abandoned his family,
and conducted himself so strangely, he soon became
greatly excited, grew furious, and uttered a shower
of bitter curses. Foaming with rage, his eyes
kindled with passion, and he denounced his relative
as a devil, with great violence-declaring that he
had burnt his fingers by coming into the devil's
house. He thereupon departed in a towering pas-
sion.
Little is known with certainty either of his pro-
ceedings. or his tenets and pretensions at this pe-
riod. He remained for some time in the city of
New-York, exhibiting himself frequently in various
parts of the city, grotesquely but meanly clad, and
sometimes mounted upon an old and half-starved
horse-wandering from place to place-preaching
whenever he could find listeners-and attracting
little attention, except from the younger members
of the population, who used to gather round him
with wondering eyes, and an evident disposition to
make themselves merry at his expense, which was
kept within bounds by his fierce looks, and his ap-
parent activity and strength of body. As yet his
82 ntATTHIAS AND
proceedings were seldom, if ever, mentioneu m the
public prints, and although some curiosity existed
respecting him, it was confined to a narrow circle
of observers. lly one of these the writer has been
favoured with the following memorandum, contain-
ing the most explicit account of the man's preten-
sions at this epoch which he has been able to ob-
tain.
"I should think it was about three years ago, that I
was acquainted with a lodger in the same house with
Matthias, near the Battery. lHy friend was desi-
rous that I should have a conversation with the
prophet, as they called him, and managed that an
interview should take place at the tea-table. I
treated him with great respect, and used no small
degree of delicacy in my questions ; this deference
seemed to win his confidence, and he gave me some-
thing of his creed. I followed up my inquiries in
a second interview, but found that he had in some
measure changed his ground; but tnking all that he
said together, as far as such incongruities could be
,
o' (I put together, it was this :-That from time to time
1
; j God had sent his messenger on earth to enlighten
d mankind, from Moses to Jesus Christ, and from
him to Matthias himself. Of his own nature
he spoke freely : he acknowledged that he be-
longed to the human race, but had been set apart as
a chosen vessel to be filled with inspiration of a
lesser or greater degree, as the Father directed
his services ; and that sometimes he was ordered
to speak in the first person. He did not appear to
have a very extensive knowledge of the Bible in
RIS IMPOSTURES. 33
general ; his recollection of the prophecies was
good. lie was particularly fond of quoting from t11
Isaiah, and more than insinuated thaLthe prophecies 0
concerning the Messiah, which he quoted, were~
said of him and his mission. He seemed vain of -~
his person, and quite charmed with his beard. On
my pushiug a few questions a little closer on my
next visit, he became quite cautious of committing
himself, and I found it would be useless for me to
spend any more time on him and his creed. I
thought him to be more of a knave than a fool ; but
still, I believe, at that time, he was a dupe to his
own fraud, as the actor made himself crazy by so
often repeating the character of the madman."
Thus much, of Matthews himself, must suffice for
the present : before his further progress can be in-
telligibly developed, it is necessary to take up a dif-
ferent chain of events, and show how perfectly and
strangely withal the way had been prepared for his
reception by others, who knew nothing of him, and
of whom, at that time, he had never heard.
84 ntA.TTIIIAS AND
CHAPTER II.
Antecedent Events in New-York-Mrs. * * *, the Leader of a
Fanatical Sect in that City-Female Dress-Singular Do-
mestic Missionary Scheme of certain Ladies-Effect of Fa-
naticism upon Parental AffectiOn-Organization of the Holy
Club-Claims to Miraculous Gifts-Anointing and healing
the Sick-Notice of the early Life and Religious Course of
Mr. and Mrs. Folger-The Retrenchment Society-A rich
,Anchorite.
• "BEHOLD how great a matter a little fire kindleth,"
says the Apostle James, in reference, particularly,
to the great strifes often engendered by a little mis-
use of the tongue. The axiom, however, may be
applied in various ways, and it is thought will not
be inapplicable to the case immediately in hand.
About the year 1821-22, l\irs. '*'**,a lady who
had but a short time previous been admitted a
member, on profession, of one of the Presbyterian
churches in the lower part of the city of New-York,
began to manifest a spirit of unwelcome censorious-
ness towarJs other members of the same church.
She was the daughter of a clergyman, long retired
fi·om the pulpit, however, but a devout and holy
man-of a most lovely disposition-unostentatious
in his manners and pretensions--full of charity and
good works-and in all respects one of the most
amiable and interesting men with whom it has been
HIS IMPOSTURES. 35
the happiness of the writer to be acquainted. The
daughter was of a gay and cheerful disposition ; and,
on making a proft>ssion of religion, was esteemed
as one who would adorn the Christian character by
contributing to its loveliness and good report. But
she soon became gloomy and ascetic, and assumed
a severity of aspect and conver~ation '' hich occa-
sioned not a little surprise. These indications were
presently followed by a spirit of fauaticism, which
was manifested in various way~. Ehe first directed
her attention tv what she eonsidered the gayety and
extravagance of female dress, and dt•notmced the
plumes upon the hat of a lady who had been a pro-
fessor before her, and indeed had affectionately in-
Yited her attention to religio11s subjects before she
had herselt' turned her thou!!hts in that direction.
She next visited her pastor,~ and dPrnanded a re-
formation in the wardrobes of the ladies ofhis hou~e­
hold. Gaining over two or three other ladies to
her views, further efforts were made by them in the
same line of reform ; and so much began to be said
upon the subject, that the clergyman referred to
preached a sermon upon femal e dress-whi~h was
published-and being a judicious and very able per-
formance, has ever since been well received by the
Christian public.
The lady, with a small coterie of proselytes, then
conceived the project of.a speedy conversion of the
whole city by a system of female visitation ; in exe-
cution of which, every house and family was to be
visited by committees of two, who were to enter
houses indiscriminately, and pray for their conver-
36 MATTHIAS AND
sion, whether the inmates would hear or not. They
were encouraged in this wild scheme of religious
knight-errantry by the appearance among us, just
at that time, of an itinerant clergyman by the name
ofT-u-r, a gentleman of great zeal, who main-
tained no inconsiderable degree of popularity among
the ultra religionists of New-York for some eighteen
months, or two years. By the exertions of the
ladies referred to, and his own, a large meeting of
females was collected, and he addressed them at
great length-urging upon all female professors the
duty of immediate organization and action for these
visitations-quoting the examples of Tryphena and
Tryphosa, with as much confidence as though they
were in point-and succeeding in the end, so far
as to obtain a number of volunteers to go forth upon
this novel system of domestic missions. And here
it is proper to state, that it was distinctly understood
by these well-intentioned but misguided ladies, that
every dwelling-house was to be visited, not except-
ing even the public hotels, which, like private
houses, were indiscriminately to be entered· and
prayed in and for. The writer well remembers
conversing at the time with several ladies who were
engaged in the enterprise, and remonstrating with
them against so wild and ill-judged a measure.
Nevertheless, strange as it may seem, the work was
commenced, and the eminent clergyman who had
delivered the finished discourse already spoken of,
upon female apparel, was among the first to receive
a visit from the lady who was at the bottom of the
whole enterprise, with an associate ; and before he
HIS lll1l'OSTURES, 37
could recover from his surprise, these m1sswnaries
were praying for his own conversion, within his own
domicil. The first visit of another of these com-
mittees was made .to the family of a very pious and
devout missionary, then recently returned from his
station in the East Indies for his health. This
work, we believe, was speedily brought to a close,
and the evangelist who took such an active part in
its commencement has done so little honour to his
profession in subsequent years, as to attract the no- -
tice, and receivt: the discipline, of the church.
In the mean while, and for a considerable time af.
terward, the lady-principal of the concern not only
caused much trouble to her own church by the extra-
vagance of her conduct, but rendered her friends and
relatives around her unhappy. Her venerable and
excellent father. was grieved to the heart at her
course, which he could not restrain ; and for attempt-
ing to do so, was only denounced as having no re-
ligion himself. Her husband, moreover, rendered
miserable by her course, and supposing that her
fanaticism had been induced by her clergyman, be-
came highly exasperated against him.
In the year 1823, or early in 1824, and while
these proceedings were yet enacting, the good old
gentleman was called to his rest; and the lady
whose plumes had given offence to his daughter
penned a tribute to his memory in the shape of a
biographical obituary notice of some length, which
was published. In that notice, she had spoken of
the deceased, whom she dearly loved, as a Chris-
tian ; and, strange as it may appear, by so doing
D -
38 MATTHIAS AND
she again provoked the daughter, who now declared
that the writer of an article pronouncing her father
a Christian could be no Christian herself. Indeed,
a spirit of severity and bitterness-of censure and
denunciation-towards all professing Christians who
did not walk agreeably to their 8tandard, was now
indulged, not only by the lady superior, but by
her disciples, which was very unlike the virtue of
Christian charity so eloquently commended by Paul,
in his first address to the Corinthians : and with the
claim of superior sanctity was united an affectation
of plainness of attire, in the assumption of which
there was obviously more of spiritual pride than ac-
companied the richest dress in the city. One of
the coterie, a lady of wealth, having divested her
cap of its lace, actually called upon her pastor, to
know whether he had observed her humility ! She
and her associates seemed to have forgotten another
· injunction of the great Apostle,-" Let nothing be
done th1·o1tgh st1i[e o1· vainglory; but in lowliness
of mind, let each esteem othe1· betle1· than themselves.''
But it may be inquired, What possible connection
can these details, concerning different persons, and
at a comparatively distant period of time, have with
Matthews the impostor 1 The connection, it is
conceived, will be obvious long before this narrative
of human weakness and imperfection will be ended.
We are illustrating the progress of fanaticism and
delusion ; in doing which, the most natural, as well
as philosophical, method is, to ascertain the cause,
and trace it to its effect. The narrative is therefore
resumed.
HIS IMPOSTURES, 39
The next stage of the delusion under review was
still more extraordinary. It was the spontaneous
formation, in the year 1825, of an association, com-
posed of members of the Presbyterian, Baptist, and
l\Iethodist churches-the greater number from the
latter, although among those from the former was
- the moving spirit of the proceedings already detailed
in the present chapter. It was not confined, how-
ever, as before, principally to "the female brethren"
of the churches, but several gentlemen of standing
and reputed piety were of the number-some of
whom became the leaders of the association. The
objects of the association were social prayer, mutual
exhortations, and familiar expositions of the Scrip-
tures'; and it was alleged that they came out from
among their respective churches because of their
comparative lack of piety. They arrogated to them-
selves more holiness than was possessed by others,
and therefore consorted thus together, holding their
meetings alternately at the houses of the respective
members, of whom, at one time, they numbered
from thirty to forty. Nor were they drawn from the
lowest and most ignorant walks of life, like the fol-
lowers of Joanna Southcote and the miserable Mor-
mons, but were for the most part well-informed and
highly respectable persons, of both sexes, among
whom were several professional gentlemen of celeb-
rity. Of their doings and their creed, the following
facts have been noted down from the lips of those
who were cognizant of their proceedings.
They began with exclusive pretensions to holi-
ness, and proceeded step by step, as fanaticism al-
40 MATTHIAS AND
ways does, until they claimed extraordinary gifts in
the interpretation of prophecy-professed to have
found the key to the hitherto sealed book of the
Apocalypse-and even laid claim to the power of
working miracles through the prayer of faitq.
Their meetings · were usually opened by Mr.
--, one of their leaders, who proclaimed that it
was an assemblage in the exercises ofwhich all were
allowed to participate, but none must speak unless
specially moved thereto by the Holy Ghost. It was
'also sometimes stated that questions were open for
discussion ; but did any one, not being full in their
faith, venture to doubt, question, or oppose them,
the leader would reply, and sometimes abuse them
with great harshness. Their preaching was called
prophesying. They believed in dreams and visions,
and related them for comment and interpretation.
They did not believe in the special observance of
the Christian Sabbath, but maintained that all days
were alike. They did not believe in the institution
of marriage, but maintained that a single life was
essential to purity and holiness, and that married
people could not really serve the Lord. Some of
them went so far as to maintain that all marriage·
bonds were dissolved. One very respectable lady,~
whose husband belonged to the association, and who
had herself become partially infected by the mania,
was restored to her right mind in a rather singular
manner. Two or three of the unmarried sisterhood
paid her a visit one day, and almost broke her heart,
by informing her that her husband was not her hus-
band-at least, that he would no.t be her husband
HIS IMPOSTURES 41
any longer. This bold invasion of her conjugal
rights dissipated the delusion which had begun to
steal over her.
It happened, however, in process of time, that two
of their most zealous leaders, who inveighed the
most strongly against matrimony, actually married
members of the association. On one occasion, one
of them, after speaking very decidedly against mar-
riage-4ilthough he himself had once been married-
was seen to give his arm to a young lady, on leav-
ing the meeting, and escort her home. A complaint
was made against him at the next meeting, and he
was brought to the confessional-and obtained for-
giveness, if not absolution, by an apology. He
nevertheless married the woman afterward.
They did not believe in a final day of judgment,
but maintained that mankind were judged for their
deeds every day. At one of these meetings, when
this tenet was the subject of their devotional medita-
tions, a lady-orator became apparently almost frantic.
She screamed '~ildly-for both sexes "prophesied,"
and their meetings were sometimes very noisy-and
danced back and forth across the room, declaring,
"This is the judgment-seat of Christ-the Judge is
now on the throne, and he is judging every one of
you now."
They were also Perfectionists. On one occa-
sion, one of the perfect ladies proclaimed that she
was even then standing on the sea of glass, and
holding converse with God. She declared that she
held sweet communion with him daily-conversing
with him, "face to face." At another meeting, one
D2
42 MATTHIAS AND
of the male members declared that he had not had a
single temptation for ten years-dwelling much
upon his own perfection, the strength of his faith,
&c. At the next convocation, however, he was
observed to sit silent and moody in the back part
of the room. Towards the close of the evening, he
rose, and with a heavy heart announced that he had
on that very evening been grievously tempted.
From the moment he entered the apartment, he said,
he had wished them all to fall down and worship
him. It was indeed a sore temptation ; he wept,
confessed his fault, and obtained relief.
They also believed in their power, through the
prayer of faith, to heal the sick, as by miracle ; and
in several cases, one of their leaders, l\Ir. --,pro-
ceeded to anoint the bodies of the sick, in obedience,
as they supposed, to the injunction of the Apostle
James ; forgetting, or not knowing, that that in-
junction was prescribed only for observance during
the Apostolic age. The facts and circumstances
attending one of these cases are well known to the
writer, and are withal so peculiar, that the particulars
will be briefly stated-especially as they serve for-
cibly to illustrate the strength with which the delu-
sion had already fastened upon the minds of the
members. Among the number, a friend of the
writer, and a very excellent man, who is no doubt-
his error to the contrarynotwithstanding-nowrejoic-
ing in the kingdom of heaven, was for a long time
sick, and apparently nigh unto death. While thus
prostrate upon his bed, receiving the affectionate at-
tentions of his wife, 1\Ir. -- one day told the
IllS IMPOSTURES. 43
latter that the Lord had promised to raise her hus-
band from his sickness, in answer to his prayers.
He added, that if she would promise him to serve
the Lord with her whole heart all the days of her
life, and join with him in prayer, it should be done,
and her husband should be restored to health.
The lady replied that she would make no promises
to man upon such a subject-that it was to her God
she went with her cares, and to him alone-adding,
in answer to his importunities, like a woman of good
sense, as she is, the question, "If, as you say, the
Lord has promised this great work in answer' to your
prayers, what difference can it make whether 1 corn-
ply with your request or not 1" 1\ir. - - then left
her, and informed the ·sick man that it was owing
to his wife's obstinacy that he was not healed. The
poor man, debilitated in body and in mind, by long
and severe illness, believed the suggestion ; and
calling his wife to his bedside, with tears in his eyes,
conjured her not to be so hard-hearted and cruel, as
thus "to persist in preventing his recovery ! At
length, however, the difficulty was surmounted. By
a small meeting of the leaders of the sect around
his bed, he was anointed with oil, with solemn reli-
gious services. The disease soon afterward took
a favourable turn, and the sick man was eventually
restored to comfortable, though never again to ro-
bust, health. His recovery was proclaimed as a
miracle, and for a long time, to the knowledge of the
writer, believed to be one by the invalid himself. It
happened, however, that immediately after the anoint-
ing, 1\'Ir. - - declared that he alone must act as
44 MATTHIAS AND
nurse and physician. The first medicine he adminis-
tered was a quantity of eggs and cider, which ope-
rated as a powerful emetic, and doubtless gave a
favourable tum to the disorder. Another case of
miracle, performed in the same way, was also pro-
claimed some time afterward ; but this was only
completed by the active treatment of a skilful phy-
sician, who informs the writer that he was called in
just in season, through Providence, to rescue the
patient from the grave. Still it is \'cry possible
that temporary relief was in both cases attributable
to the influence of a strong imagination, impressed
with the assurance of recovery. Such was un-
doubtedly the fact in regard to the pretended mira-
cles contended for by l\Ir. )Iume, as having been
performed at the tomb of Thomas a Becket, and
elsewhere. Those said to have been performed in
Europe some years since, when the French were
running wild on the subject of animal magnetism,
were occasioned by the operation of the same prin-
ciple. So, also, in the case of the young lady, l\Iiss
Campbell, said to have been miraculously healed by
Edward Irving ; to which may be added, the pre-
tended miracles of Prince Hohenlohe. Indeed, hun-
dreds and thousands of instances might be cited, in
which diseases, probably in themselves in a great
measure imaginary, have been alleviated or dispelled
by working upon the imagination. But at the same
time, equally well attested cases might be cited, in
which diseases, and even death, have been super-
induced by the same means.
Such was the association of enthu~iasts and fa-
HIS IMPOSTURES. 45
natics·formed in 1825. By what name it was recog-
nised in its own circle, or whether it had any particular
title, is not known to the writer. By the profane,
it was sometimes called " 1'he Holy Club." It did
not, however, continue long. Its extravagances be-
came such, that its most respectable .members fell
off, and it was at length entirely dissolved. Its
male leaders married, and have since been indulging
in the dreams, and reveries, and visionary specula-
tions of Emanuel Swedenborg.
Preserving, as far as possible, the regular order
of events, without losing sight, as we must not, of
the active and almost omnipresent female spirit who
was first in the delusion, and the means of bringing
and keeping others therein, the reader must now be
introduced to 1\lr. and 1\lrs. BENJAMIN H. FoLGER,
whose names have so frequently appeared before
the public of late, in connection with those of 1\lat-
thews and his other victims. 1\11". Folger has been
known to the writer from the days of his boyhood,
when both were residents of Hudson. He was one
of the most amiable and intelligentlads of his time,
and grew up to man's estate, full of activity and en-
terprise, and endowed with those estimable qualities
which, united to an excellent capacity for business,
and sound principles of integrity, secured for him
lhe esteem and confidence of all who knew him.
He commenced business in the city of New-York
about the year 1821, and with the qualifications and
advantages just described, his commercial career
was not only successful, but prosperous to a degree.
He was married in 1823, to a young lady who was
46 MATTHIAS AND
reared in the bosom of the Reformed Dutch church,
accustomed from her childhood to the observance
of the Sabbath and the reading of the Holy Scrip-
tures, and taught to cultivate religious impressions,
and cherish a devotional spirit, by a pious mother.
At the time of their marriage, neither l\1r. Folger
nor his wife was a professor of religion. Among
the relatives present on the happy occasion was
Mrs. * 'if *,-the lady to whom such frequent refer-
ence has already been made, and who, as the mas-
fer-spirit of most of the proceedings to be recorded,
must yet be spoken of still more frequently. Hav-
ing previously, however, been the cause of great
pain in the circle of her relatives and friends, by rea.
son of her religious enthusiasm, or fanaticism, as it
was more justly called, at Mr. Folger's suggestion
there was a distinct understanding that her peculiar
views upon this subject were never to be introduced
into his family. Under this compact, she continued
a frequent visiter at the house of Mr. Folger, and
obtained great influence over the mind of his lady,
for which purpose her efforts were unceasing. In
the year 1825, while sitting under the preaching of
the Rev. 1\Ir. Dubois, Mrs. Folger became a hopeful
convert to Christianity, and a member of his church.
Her religious experience had been such as to render
her feelings peculiarly tender and susceptible. The
cares of her mother, at that interesting period, de-
prived the daughter of her judicious counsel and ex-
ample; and while thus 'circumstanced, before her
friends had discerned the approach of error, it was
discovered that Mrs. 'if * * had not only obtained
ll!S !;\!POSTURES. 47
almo;;t the entire control of her mind, but had
already made her a convert to her own peculiar and
most unfortunate views of Christian duty and prin-
ciple. Her warfare against all superfluous or orna-
mental articles of dress was yet waged, as in the
early part of ·her fanatical career ; and her young
disciple was persuaded in all respects to conform to
her notions upon this subject. No article of apparel
was allowed beyond the requirements of decency,
to which were added various austere observances,
abstinence, fasting, &c. One day in every week
was strictly observed as a fast ; and the season was
occasionally extended to three, or perhaps changed
to a whole week of' rigid diet upon bread and water.
These observances were instituted to humble their
own souls, and increase their zeal and their Iilith in
labours and intercessions for the souls of others.
It was at this period that l\Irs. Folger's spiritual
guide began to claim revelations from heaven; or,
in other words, the direct teachings of the Holy
Spirit, in regard as well to all her own personal con-
cernments, as to the affairs of the church : and in
order that the connection may not escape attention,
it is well here to remind the reader, that we are
now speaking of events occurring simultaneously
with the proceedings of " The Holy Club," already
described in the present chapter, with which, as has
been previously stated, l\Irs. '~< * * was connected.
Having thus overcome all opposition upon the
subject of her religious views, and ,obtained complete
and entire asceudency in spiritual matters in his
family, the house of .M:r. Folger was for a long time
48 ~lATTHIAS AND
the centre of her operations; and female prayer-
meetings were held there on any, and sometimes
every, day and evening of the week. These meet-
ings were numerously attended; but notwithstanding
the spirit in which they originated, and the unpromis-
ing Christian character of the lady-principal, they
are, nevertheless, believed to have been productive
of lasting good upon the minds of some of those
who mingled in, and participated with them. If
such was the fact, there is cause of gratitude to that
Being who is able to overrule all things for good.
"Notwithstanding evet·y way,'' says Paul to the
Philippians, "tvhethet· in pt·elence m· in tmth, Ch1-ist
is pt·eached; and therein I do Tejoice, yea, and will
rejoice." And here it must be noted, that among
the ladies most earnestly engaged in those meetings
was the late Mrs. Sarah Pierson, the wife of the
late Elijah Pierson.
Having removed to the lower part of the city, and.
connected himself with the congregation of the Gar-
den-street church, l\ir. Folger became a convert to
Christianity in 1827, under the preaching of the Rev.
Dr. Matthews, and attached himself to his church,
of which he proved himself an intelligent, active,
and exemplary member. In 1829, he was one of
those who projected and established the Dey-street
church, and one of the four who united in calling
the Rev. Joel Parker from Rochester to the pas-
toral charge of that congregation. But it will pres-
ently be seen that he did not remain in that con-
nection.
Some time previous to the year 1829, Mrs. ***
IllS IMPOST\JRE!, 49
had removed to the Bowery Hill, which has recently
been dug down, but upon which, at that period, stood
a range of houses, isolated a~ it were from the city,
pleasantly situated, and deeply imbosomed in an al·
most continuous grove ofornamental trees and shrub·
bery. It was a sweet sylvan retreat from the city,
end in all respects a desirable place of residence,
especially for the summer. l\Ir. Folger had made
arrangements for permanently residing in the lower
part of the city ; but the continued intimacy of 1\Irs.
'I< * * having increased her influence, until at length
it had become paramount in his domestic as well as
religious affairs, he was induced to change his plans.
It was the strong desire of this lady that he should
remo've to the Howery Hill; and having been taught
by the Spirit that it was his duty to do so, she sue·
ceeded in persuading him into tho measure. Not
only that, but she was also taught by the Spirit that
it was his duty to sell his fashionable furnitnre, and
substitute therefor merely the plainest articles of
necessity-with all of which requirements of "the
Spirit" he complied, and removed accordingly. 1\Ir.
Pierson also resided at Bowery Hill at the same
time, and several other families and individuals in
that portion of the city, who were disciples and fol-
lowers of 1\Irs. * * *·
It was here, and in the same year, that the cele·
brated " Retrenchment Society'' was devised by 1\Irs.
"* * *, and organized under the influence of a tract
which she wrote, and under her own immediate
auspices. This event marks the next stage in the
progress of the delusion under which, at a subse•
E
50 ~IATTHIAS A!W
quent p<niod, so many persons became the vicums
of Matthews. The members were bound to abstain
religiously from all costly articles of dress or furni-
ture-to wear no ornaments or jewels-and to eat
no cake, pastry, sweetmeats, or butter-to drink
!Wither tea nor coflE~e-and, in short, to O
eny them-
selves all the luxuries and most of the comforts of
life. In the list of the proscribed articles of furni-
ture were, all articles made of mahogany or brass ;
all pictures, loobng-glasses, carpets, curtains, sofas,
or rich furniture of any description. And in addi·
tion to these inhibitions, they were to fast hvo or
three whole days in every week. This last rule
was most rigidly enforced-even upon the tender
pupils of a school taught by one of the ladies, who,
it is said, were compelled to fast with her, until they
would cry for hours all:cr bread and water-until, in
fact, in some instances, they were made sick by
their abstinence.
Strange as it may appear, the inf.'ltuation which,
in the present age, could lead to the formation of
such a society of anchorites, was by no means con-
fined to the small circle of visionary women in which
it originated. It embraced at one time a consider-
able number of members. Some of them lived in
fine houses in the most fashionable part11 of the city.
They sold their bes! and most fashionable and
showy furniture ; and a religious fl·iend informs the
writer, that he recollects seeing one of them-a very
wealthy citizen, living in a splendid mansion worth
at least twenty thousand dollars-at supper in his
spacious parlour one evening, with nothing upon
HIS DlPOSTURES.
the table but a decanter of cold water, a loaf of
brown, and a few pieces of gingerbread, with three
or four raw apples. This was the homely fare of
an opul<>nt member of the Retrenchment Society,
who doubtless thought that he was doing God ser-
vice-forgetting that consistency would have re-
quired him to exchange his palace for a cottage, and
distribute all his goods, saving only enough for the
purchase of his stinted fare, among the poor, or in
aid of the kingdom of that Master whom he was no
doubt sincerely desirous to serve. The delusion
of the gentleman referred to has since taken a dif-
ferent and less inofllmsive turn.
Such is a brief history of the "Retrenchment
Society," of which, remembering the circumstances
in which he stood, the almost total submission ofhis
lady to the dictates of its founder, l\Irs. * 'If *, and
the zeal with which she complied with all its requisi-
tions, the reader will no doubt be surprised to learn
that l\lr. Folger was not a member.
!i!l 'lilATTIIIAS AND
CHAPTER III.
Characters of }[r. and Mrs. Elijah Pierson-Commencement of
their Religious Enthusiasm-He conceires a project for Con~
verting the City and the World-Convenes the Clergy-Re-
markable visit to his Pastor-Adopts notions at variance
with his Church-Opinions against Renting Pews, &c-
Separation from the Church all<\ )(emoval to Bowery ~Jill­
Joins 1\lrs. ***-Fruitless attempts to Reclaim him-Ex·
travagant Proceedings-Cotnmumc.:ations with the Spiral-
Commences Preaching-Extracts from his Diary-SICh:ness
of Mrs. Pierson-A Vision-Commissioned as Elijah the
'l'ishbite-Anointing of 1\Irs. Pierson-Her Death-Solemn
Scenes at her Funeral-Attempt to Haise her from the Dead
by the Prayer of Faith-His Prayer-The Burial.
IT has already been stated, in the last chapter, that
among the residents upon Bowery Hill, were the
late Elijah Pierson and his family. 1\Ir. Pierson
was a native of l\lorristown, in New-Jersey. He
passed through the several grades of apprentice and
clerk in the city of New-York, much to the satisfac-
tion of his employers, and was a highly-respected
merchant for many years, enjoying the confidence
and esteem of a large circle of acquaintance among
business men. Amiable, intelligent, and pious, he
was the devoted friend of religion and humanity;
and few men spent more time and money in these
objects, and in the cause of philanthropy, than he.
He was originally a memuer of the Br~ck Presby-
terian Church in Beel\man-street, and subsequently
HIS IMPOSTURES. 53
nn elder in the 1\lission Church in Bancker (now
l\Iadison) street. In 1822, he detached himself
from the Presbyterian connection, and became a
member of the South Baptist Church, in which he
was for several years a deacon of exemplary char-
acter and deportment. Indeed, he would have been
an honour to any church, where meekness, charity,
and an unostentatious devotion to the service of his
1\Iaster were regarded as cardinal virtues. There
was not asymptom ofundue enthusiasm-not a parti-
cle of fanaticism-about him; on the contrary, he
was uniformly"regarded as an unusually judicious, dis-
criminating, and consistent Christian, full of charity
and good works ; and the same characteristics dis-
tinguished him in all the ordinary concerns of life.
He was a favourite among Christians of all denomi-
nations; and it may be said, without exaggeration,
that no layman in New-York exerted a more salu-
tary and holy intluence.
l\lrs. Pierson was the eldest daughter of the late
Rev. John Stanford, long known to the citizens of
New-York as the pious, benevolent, and, despite
his great. age, zealous and active Chaplain to the
Penitentiary, Almshouse, and other public institu-
tions. The daughter, Sarah, was, at the time of her
marriage with l\lr. Pierson, a widow, and about
thirty years of age. Her first marriage had been
unfortunate. It took place after an engagement of
six years; this long delay was caused by poverty,
the circumstances of l\Ir. ·warner, for that was the
name of l\lrs. Pierson's first husband, being such
as not to justify him in marrying. He was engaged
F.2
54 1\lATTHIAS AND
in commercial pursuits, and labouring hard to pro-
vide himself with the means of supporting a family.
Success at length crowned his efforts, and they were
married. Very soon after their union, Mr. )Varner
was tempted, by a very advantageous offer, to pro-
ceed as supercargo to one of the \Vest India Islands,
and there died of the yellow fever ; and thus his
wife became a widow ere ~he had been six months
married. Her grief was deep and lasting; but it
yielded, after the lapse of several years, to the
assiduities of Mr. Pierson. The exact time of her
second marriage we have not been able to ascertain.
In person, l\Iiss Stanford was small, but grace-
ful ; and her features, though not, strictly speaking,
beautiful, were of a most intellectual cast-full of
expression-and eminently pleasing. Her mind
was one of a high order, and it had been exceedingly
well cultivated. Her conversation was remarkably
interesting, not only from the intelligence, informa-
tion, and good sense by which it was characterized,
but also, and still more, from the pure spirit of be-
nevolence and piety which it invariably displayed.
The kindness of her disposition was indeed remark-
able ; the writer was intimately acquainted with her,
and, for nearly four years, in the habit of seeing her
almost every day; and, during all that time, he can
truly say, that he never heard her utter a single
word, or lmew her to do 11 single act, indicative of
peevishness, envy, ill-humour, or any other unamia-
ble quality. She was mistrpss of several accom-
plishments, but that in which she most delighted
was music. Of thi.s she was a proficient ; and it
liiS UIPOSTURES. 55
may be mentioned, as an evidence of her fondness
for it, that she had acquirerl great skill, not only on
the piano and in singing, but also on the flute and
flageolet. She had originally belonged to the Epis-
copal church ; but, with her last husband, ulti-
mately joined the Baptists.
Such is a brief sketch of the remarkable and un-
fortunate couple whose names are closely interwo-
ven with the residue of this history. United and
happy in each other-possessing an abundance of
this world's goods-with every social, moral, and in-
tellectual quality that can render life delightful-the
hands of both ever open to the calls of the needy,
and the equally pressing demands of those whom
they oupposed to be hungering for the bread of life
-to all human probability they had a long career
of usefulness, virtue, and honour before them.
Least of all could it have been anticipated, that their
suns should set so soon, and go down, as they did,
in gloom and sorrow.
While a member of the South Baptist church,
Mr. Pierson had resided in the lower part of the
city. It will have been observed in the preceding
chapter, that 1\Irs. Pierson was one of the ladies at-
tending the multitudinous female prayer meetings
in 1825, under the auspices of 1\Irs. *' *' *', at the
house of1\lr. B. H. Folger. But it is not known that
she gave any other evidence ofreligious extravagance
, until about the year 1828.
Some time previous to this date, however. 1\Ir.
Pierson conceived various extravagant notions re-
f;pecting the practi~'\l!ili~J}' o.{:. converting the wholo
....r- '
,..~ ~~~...!~~,' "t"
(/1 I ,. ,»' I ";"
~ 1l r • : ,.
~~. ~:~ YJ. •
' .. ...
~IATTHIAS AND
population of the city : with a view to which project
he convened a large number of the clergy of differ-
ent denominations. At this meeting one or more
of the clergymen thought they discerned the symp-
toms of an approaching hallucination, although such
was not the general impression. Not long after-
ward, he called upon his pastor early one morning,
for the purpose of conversation upon the same sub-
ject, and evidently under great excitement of mind.
In this interview, which was extended through the
whole day, he declared that he had received new
light upon spiritual subjects. He went at length
into a statement of his newly acquired opinions ;
and with occasional bursts of enthusiasm, not to say
phrenzy, would seize his pastor by the hand, ex-
daiming, " These-thPse are the truths of God, and
must not be rejected." Hi!l present object was
the immediate conversion of" the whole city, which
event, he affirmed, would be the prelude to the con-
version of the whole world. lie wished to kindle a
blaze in the city of New-York that the universe
would see. One of his plans for the accomplish-
ment of the noble enterprise, was a mission to Eu-
rope, for the purpose, as he said, of revealing truths
that had never been revealed-all the world being,
in his opinion, yet involved, as it were, in Cimmerian
darkness. His conversation during the day was, in
the main, coherent, and, with the exception of his
extravagant views respecting the practicability of an
almost instantaneous conversion of New-York and
the world, rational-excepting, moreover, the erro-
neous constructions which he occasionally put upQn
JIIS li\lPOSTURES. 57
some of the passages of Scripture, with which his
conversation was interlarded. It was evident from
his whole manner, moreover, that he was most sin-
cerely and earnestly bent upon the great work he
had in view. It was a day, he said, which he had
solemnly set apart for fasting and prayer upon that
subject; and from nine o'clock in the morning until
night, he was engaged, the entire time, in the most
earnest conversation-refusing to partake of a mor-
sel of refreshment during the whole period, though
frequently and earnestly requested to do so. The
clergyman, readily perceiving what was the state of
his mind, indulged him thus long, with a view of al-
lowing him to expend his fcrvour,-Iosing no avail-
able opportunity, however, of interposing such whole-
some remarks, and imparting such advice, as he
judged most suitable to the peculiar case and occa-
sion. But it was all to no purpose, and the unfor-
tunate man was soon perceived to be verging farther
and yet farther in his extravagant views.
He began soon afterward to express opinions
which were evidently at variance with the word of
God, though at first not heretical, in themselves con.
sidered. Upon those points his pastor, and other
religious friends, laboured long and faithfully with
him,-visiting his house frequently to converse and
pray with him. But the mildness and gentleness
of his disposition seemed to be leaving him ; and
having avowed what were considered erroneous opi-
nions, it was evidently his determination not to re·
tract them,-or at least he was very reluctant to do
so, notwithstanding the clear and incontrove!tible
58 niATTHIAS AND
arguments which from the Scriptures were produced
in opposition to his views. Be that as it may, the
fi·iends who were then striving to save him from
error received the impression, that, although partially
convinced by their arguments,·he was nevertheless
determined not to yield to the conviction.
In the year 1828, both 1\Ir. Pierson and his wife
objected to the practice of tatting up collections of
money in church on the Lord's day-believing it to
be a profanation of holy time. They also objected
to the practice ·of owning and letting pews for the
exclusive use of proprietors and lessees, and those
who might be favonred with invitations. Among
the papers of 1\Ir. Pierson, which will be frequently
quoted in the progress of this work, is a statement
of the views of himself and his wife upon these ques-
tions, which seems to have been drawn up at the re-
quest of the church. About two-thirds of this paper
is in the handwriting of 1\Irs. Pierson, and was
written, as 1\Ir. Pierson states in a note, "under a
very powerful sense of the presence and direction
of the Lord." The argument of the pew question
is chiefly founded upon the practice of the primitive
church, of having all things in common ; and also
upon James, ii. 1-4. "Jlfy breth1·en, have not the
faith of our L01·cl Jesus Clwist, the L01·d of glory, :
with respect ofpersons. Fo1· if then come 1:nto your
assembly a man with a golcl ring, in goodly appm·el,
and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment;
and ye have 1·espect to him that wem·eth the gay
clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good
place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or Bil
HIS DtPOSTUfiES.
here unde1· my footstool: w·, ye not then pm·lial in
yourselves, and are become judges ofevil thoughts?"
The argument, however, was not sufliciently con-
vincing to induce the church to relinquish either of
the practices of which they had complained. Still
they yet continued their connection with the church,
for upward of six months ; and upon every point
but those two, remained the same affectionate, kind-
hearted, and humble members as before.
Priur to the removal of the old state prison from
Greenwich, l\lr. Pierson and his wife had laboured
much of the time for two years in the Sunday-schools
and among the convicts ofthat establishment; count-
ing self-denial and hardship nothing, so that they
could· do good to the soufs of men. Nor were
tl1eir labours unattended with the blessing. After
the demolition of that prison, their attention was
directed to tile condition of the degraded women
of the Five Points-for whose spiritual welfare their
exertions were instant in season and out of sea•
son. Among the unsound and unscriptural notions
which l\Ir. Pierson now held, was that of direct reve-
lations to him of the will of God, through the audi·
ble agency of the Holy Spirit. This belief, or pre-
tension, it will be recollected, was avowed by l\Irs.
* * *, with whom, it must be borne in mind, 1\Irs.
Pierson had been associated as early as 1825. l\Ir,
Pierson was indeed a man of prayer-of habitual,
constant prayer ; and after he began to entertain
these opinions, it was his daily habit to record hi~
religious exercises,--his prayers, and the answers
which he received. These prayers were put up oA
60 MATTHIAS AND
all occasions, upon every subject of duty or busi-
ness, for direction in every undertaking, spiritual Ol'
temporal, and for every person with whom he trans·
acted business, or was connected in religious duties.
There will be occasion to draw frequently hereafter
from these closet records, of which the following is
a specimen. It is without date ; but from its sub-
ject, it is probable that it was penned during the
labours of himself and wife among the unfortunate
females above spoken of.
' Prayerl for the harlots at Five Points: asked the Lord to give
us all tho ground whereon the soles of our feet had trod, and all
the souls now alive who had heard our voices in that neigh·
bourhood.
Answer. The Lord said, "You must go and fetch them out.''
The Lord said, concerning the two witnesses, "Thou art one
and Sarah the other."
Their differences with the South Baptist Church
becoming yet wider and more obvious, Mr. and
Mrs. Pierson withdrew from it, and in the year 1829
removed to the Bowery Hill, in the immediate
neighbourhood of l\irs. * * *·, from whom they had
derived ·their recent views of the direct teach-
ings of the Holy Spirit, and with whom their con-
nection now became more intimate than ever. It
was, indeed, a union of congenial spirits ; and from
the moment of that union, may be dated the com-
mencement of that series of proceedings and meas-
ures at the Bowery Hill, which, going from one step
to another in fanaticism and delusion, ultimately pre·
pared the way for the advent of the false prophet
Matthias.
IllS IMPOSTURES. Gl
There can be no doubt of the sincere desire of
1\Ir. and l\Irs. Pierson to do good. Their whole
religious lives had been spent in cultivating the
Christian graces, and in works of universal philan-
thropy and benevolence. But the operations of the
Christian world were too slow for them, and the faith
of others did not extend far enough. Hence they had
come out from among their former associates, and
thought, with the Welsh preacher, that they could
set the world in a blaze, while an old-fashioned
Chri:;tian would be lighting his pipe. Numbers,
gathering round the trio, became their disciples, and
various associations for objects of philanthropy were
undertaken. Among these was a society for the
education of children of poor parents for the Chris·
tian ministry-as they understood it. Several chil·
dren were supported and instructed for a time, but
the sickness which prevailed there in the summers,
broke up the school in J830, and the effort ceased.
A sewing society was organized by the females, the
profits of whose labours were to be appropriated to
the support and instruction of converted Jews, who
were to be sent forth as missionaries. l\Ir. Pierson
now commenced preaching, and applied for orders
to the denomination with which he had been con-
nected; but was refused. He nevertheless con-
tinued to preach, and com·erts were added to his
flock. Among these were two young Jews, who
were supported there for some time. There was a
transaction connected with one of them, who desired
to marry a sister of the establishment, over which it
is judged best to draw a veil. The other went forth
F
62 !IATTIIIAS Aim
-upon a mission-" since which,'' in the words ofOne
of the community, "nothing satisfactory has been
heard of him." l\Ir. and 1\Irs. Pierson had also
mainly under their direction, the celebrated Magdalen
Institution, which was located there, and one of the
annual reports conr:erning which, made so much
noise, anc! gave such marked dissatisfaction to the
public, a year or two afterward. They were like-
wise with l\Irs. * * *• its founder, foremost among
the members of the memorable "Retrenchment So-
ciety," of which an account has been given in the
preceding chapter.
Feeling alarmed at the extravagances into which
the people at the Bowery Hill were running, and
especially at the increasing wildness of conduct mani-
fested by l\Ir. Pierson, his former pastor visited his
house often, with a view of reclaiming, and, if pos-
sible, bringing him back to a more rational course
of conduct. He was, howe.ver, generally absent;
but the clergyman found l\Irs. Pierson at home, and
in repeated conversations yet discovered in her a de-
lightful state of Christian feeling. As matters evi-
dently grew worse, the clergyman just referred to,
with several of his most -
judicious friends, resolved
upon making greater efforts for preserving him from
what was evidently an impending delirium. They
ultimately succeeded in obtaining several interviews,
and talked and prayed with, and for him, earnestly.
But he was not to be diverted from the course he
had marked out for himself, and which, he said, duty
required of him. And the writer is authorized here
to remark, that although in his Christian character
HIS J:IIPOSTURES. 63
he had usually, and on ordinary occasions, shown
himself one of the most tractable, meek, and humble
followers of his l\laster, yet when he had made a
promise, or determined upon a certain course of
conduct, he was one of the most intractable and ob-
stinate of men-seldom holding himself open to
conviction, however powerful the arguments that
might be addressed to him. His mind was now
running upon what he called "the kingdom"-
meaning, probably, the kingdom of the l\Iessiah
upon earth. It could be no kingdom until estab-
lished upon the Bowery Hill. The kingdom had
now come ; and consisted of himself, wife and
children, l\Irs. * * *• l\Irs. 1\I--, l\Ir. L--,
Isabella, the black-woman, &c. On the occasion
of which we are now speaking, he manifested more
than ordinary impatience-not to use a harsher term.
But even if irritable and impatient at times, espe-
cially when over-excited, the private papers of few
Christians would bear stronger evidence of the ef-
forts he made to conquer this defect of his physical
temperament, or of the sorrow it evidently occa-
sioned him. As evidence of this fact, the follow-
ing brief note of a prayer upon this very subject,
and perhaps uttered on this very occasion, since it
is found on a loose piece of paper, and without date,
may be adduced. It is accompanied, as qre most
of his recorded prayers, with the answer, which he
believed tobe the audible response ofthe Holy Spirit:
0, Lord Jesus 1 J perceive that J have failed in exercising a
•pirit of love, patience, meekness, kindness, and condescension
to my fellows, and especially a spirit of impertinence in disputa·
64 l\IATTHIAS AND
tion. Now, Lord Jesus, I confess to thee that this has been wrong,
and I am heartily sorry for it, and beg thy forgiveness. 0 Lord!
forgive me, and cleanse me from these sins : help me hereafter,
Lord, to exercise the opposite graces in a double proportion.
An.swi'T. We have freely forgiven thee and cleanseu thee from
this unnghteousness.-Thy petition is granted, ancl thou shalt
have help from us so as to enable thee to exercise the'e graces.
Through the winter of 1829-30, and the succeed-
ing spring, Mr. Pierson continued preaching in his own
house at the Bowery Hill; dwelling much upon the
subject of baptism by immersion, and likewise prom-
inently advancing the doctrines held by Mrs. * 'ii 'ii
and himself, of the direct teachings of the spirit.
Notwithstanding the refusal to his application for a
license to preach the Gospel, he entertained the opi-
nion that he had been specially called to that office ;
believing that he had- received special intellectual
endowments from on high for the priesthood. And
if any doubt that monomania had already seized
upon him exists, such doubt will be removed by the
following excerpt from his diary ;-
~
Monday, 3d Jan. 1830. Lord Jesus, thou hast committed to
mv care great and precions talents, some of which I see, and
others I may not perceive. 0, Lord, I wish to improve to
the utmost all those talents thou hast given me. I would not
bury one of them, but diligently impro\'c them for thy glory.
Now, Lord Jesus, I do humbly entreat thee to unfold to me in a
clear manner these various talents. Show me their excellency,
their value, and how to improve them in the best manner.
Leave me not in ignorance concerning any one, nor suffer 1ne to
neglect or misimprove any one.
0, Lord Jesus! help me, for I need help in these things. Lord,
make thy grace sufficient for me, that 1may improve thy gifts;
and so that having, more may be given me.
Answer. I will undertake for thee; thou scekest to glorify me,
and I will help thee: thou sh"lt prosper abundantly; and tu him
that hath, more shall be given.
HIS 11\lPOSTURES. 65
In the month of February following, he proceeded
to organize a church ; a fact which is thus noted in
his diary:-
Su,day, Feb. 28th, 1830. \Ve formed ourselves into a church
at Dowery Hill, and subscribed a paper with our hands unto the
Lord; this consumed the fore-part of the day, and-came in the
afternoon, and was mfonned what we had done.
The original members of this church were about a
dozen, whose names are among the loose papers of
l\Ir. Pierson. Among them was Isabella, a black
woman; who, with another black woman, named
Katy, was attached to l\Ir. Pierson's household.
Their names are mentioned here, because they will
both come conspicuously before the reader in the
pages of this narrati\·e. lloth entered into all the
vagaries and delusions of l\Ir. Pierson ; and one of
them (the former) was probably, before the end
came, among the most wicked of the wicked.
This community, of which l\Irs. *** was the
chief, and l\Ir. Pierson the preacher, were in prayer
and fastings often. For weeks together their meet-
ings were held daily ; and fourteen meetings have
been known to be holden in a single week. On one
occasion, at least, the meetings wefe continued
daily for three weel1s-time only being allowed for
a few hours' sleep and some slight refreshments.
'With such labours, added to the exertions of 1\lr.
Pierson out of doors, and those of his wife in the
1\Iagdalen Asylum, and among the wretched crea-
tures of the Fire Points, the constant abstemious-
ness required by the Retrenchment Society, and to
F2
66 M! TTIIIAS AND
frequent and protracted seasons of entire fasting, 1\Ir.
Pierson became greatly emaciated, and the health
of his wife sank under it. She was taken ill during
the winter, and her health rapidly declined with the
approach of spring. She was tenderly loved by
her husband, and his anxiety for the event, and so-
licitude for her recovery, were vpry great. Among
the visions which he has left upon record is the fol-
lowing, which he probably understood as shadowing
forth the affecting truth that she was soon to be
taken from him :--
Friday night, 9 o'clock, .~{arch 13th, 1830. I was earnestly beg-
ging the Lord to bestow her bodily strength, and I heard a small
still voice saying, "Until the ram, I chose the body for a sacri-
fice." I continued to pray, and heard a small still ,·oice continue
to say, " The supper is prepared, 0, to the marriage of the Lamh,
bring forth the robe!" and I saw it put on. I saw the face of
her: she laid down four weapons; ami! saw her countenance ;
and if you ever had the view of heaven, it was like that. I had
hold of her elbow, and she asked me if I knew her now. She
told me what to do with the weapons; and I saw two wings let
down to her from heaven, and she flew away.
Having partially retired from business, 1\Ir. Pier-
son now spent much of his time in searching the
Scriptures and in preaching. Ilis mind, at this
crisis, dwelt much upon the first and second resur-
rection, as spoken of in the Apocalypse. He ob-
served that there was great blessedness laid up for
those who would have a part in the first resurrec-
tion ; and, as he read the signs of the times, he sup-
posed that the first resurrection was very near, and,
for aught he knew, the very time when Jesus would
make his second appearance ; and it was his great
desire that Mrs. Pierson and himself should have a
IllS Ili!POSTURES. 67
part in this first resurrection. l\Ir. and l\Irs. Fol-
ger having now removed to the Bowery Hill, and
become members of his church, and participanis in
the other associations and labours of the community,
1\'Ir. Pierson held earnest conversations with l\Ir.
Folger upon this subject.
At length, about the middle of June, the physi- .
cians having announced to l\Ir. l'ierson that they
had no expectation of the recovery of his wife, he
called upon l\Irs. Folger, and repeated what they
had said-adding that "man's extremity was God's
opportunity," and it was his belief that Mrs. Pierson
might be restored by faith and prayer, and by obeying
the injunctions of the Apostle .Tames, touching the
anointing of the sick. Knowing well with what
zeal and willingness she had laboured in the Lord's
vineyard, "he was willing to try how far God would
interpose in saving her life in answer to prayer, and
at the risk of being thought crazy, and having his
name cast out as evil. He would shelter himself
under the word of God." The following entries in
his diary occur at this time. The date of the
second it is important to bear in mind, as it will be
referred to again :-
Friday, June 18, 1830. Day of fasting and prayer for Sarah.
It seemed the Lord said, " Sarah thy w1fe shall recover."
Sunday, June 20, 1830. I haYe named thee this day Elijah
the Tishbite, and thou shalt go before me in the spirit and
power of Elias, to prepare my way before me.
On the next, or the following day, according to
l\lr. Pierson's own relation, which has been fur-
68 1\IATTHIAS AND
nished the writer by a friend, while proceeding down
to Wall-street in an omnibus, God spake to him
audibly, and said, "Thou art Elijah the Tishbite-
Gather unto me all the members of Israel at the fool
of Mount Carmel." This injunction he interpreted
to mean, that he must convene the leading members
of his church at his house on Bowery Hill. This
church, in his view, was the true Israel ; and its of-
ficers, of course, the elders. He accordingly invited
several of the members to his house, on the 23d of
June-all of whom had become more or less infected
with his enthusiasm, although all had not wandered
so far into the mists of delusion as himself. After
a special conversation with Mrs. Folger, in which
he stated the object of the meeting, she also con-
sented to attend.
, Assembled around the bedside of Mrs. Pierson,
now evidently near her end, Mr. Pierson quoted the
passage from James, heretofore referred to, and
urged that it was indispPnsable to the recovery of his
wife that he should literally fulfil that injunction. He
had called the elders of the church together, and she
must be anointed. Arrangements were accordingly
made for that ceremony. Among the persons pres-
ent on the occasion, were Mrs. '* '* '*, and the black
woman Isabella, who was very forward and active.
According to the impressions of persons in the ad-
joining apartment, who were too much shocked by
the procedure to be present, Isabella must have been
one of the principal actors and speakers in the re-
ligious riles and ceremonies that were observed.
The fact of the anointing is briefly noted in the
diary of Mr. Pie~on, thus:--;;:
IllS n!POSTURES. 69
J.fondav, June 23, 1830. Anointed Sarah with oil in the name
of the Lord, according to James v. 14, 15.
It is not known or believed by the friends of l\Irs.
Pierson that she altogether approved of this fanatical
procedure, notwithstanding what it will soon be per-
ceived her husband said upon the subject; or, if she
did, hPr mind and body had become so much debili-
tated by disease, that her own views at this time,
need scarcely be taken into the account. Either way
however, it is now of but little consequence. In a
very few days after the anointing she was no more
of this world-her purified spirit having ascended to
the bosom of her Saviour.*' Preparations were
made for the funeral, as usual, and a large number
of special im·itations were issued. l\Ir. Pierson
himself declaring, however, that it would be no fune-
ral, but rather a~·esurrection. Indeed, he seemed to
be !hlly persuaded that she wonld that day be restored
to life again by the prayer of faith. The universal
respect which the deceased had enjoyed while living,
as a lady of eminent piety and unbounded benevo-
lence, would of course have produced a large at-
tendance at her funeral, to say nothing of the pecu-
liarity of the case. About two hundred persons
• In relation to the disorder of which Mrs. Pierson died, a
medical gentleman acquainted with the whole proceedings at
the Bowery Hill. remarks in a letter to the writer:-" I always
attrihuted !\Irs. Pierson'.s sickne5is and rleath to her excessive
fastin~. being so frequently repeated and long continued. In-
deed it is \"eryprobable that Mr. Pierson himself lost both health
and reason from th(' same cause. l had frrqucnt occasion to
spf".ak to patif'nts. whose health was so rapidly dcc1ining, in re·
lation to the. mischirf of this delusion, and received for ans,ver
that they belonged to the Retrenchment Society and must fast.
70 MATTIIIAS AND
attended, a majority of whom were females. There
were also several clergymen o:' different denomina-
tions present. From the lips of one of these, the
writer has noted down a full account of the whole
of the solemn and awful procedure which followed,
and by a physician who was also present he has like-
wise been favoured with a written account. The
latter remarks,-" The hall and rooms being filled,
I stood upon the piazza, which opened by a large
raised window into the parlour where the corpse lay
in a coffin, clad in grave-clothes. Soo'n after I
took this position, where I could hear and see the
anticipated ceremonies, I was questioned by several
persons whether I believed that she would be raised.
As I saw they were followers of Mr. Pierson, and
addressed the same question to others who looked
sceptical, I evaded a direct answer."
Meantime Mr. Pierson was sitting in an adjoin-
ing room, opening into the parlour where the corpse
was laid, with the utmost tranquillity and compo~ure.
One of his clerical friends sat with him for a time,
and as the funeral seemed to be delayed, he at length
suggested that they had better proceed, and inquired
whether there was any particular order of service
which he wished to be observed. His reply was-
" wait a minute;" and he sat with the same unmoved
composure a time longer. Taking an open bible in
his hand, he then rose, and entered the room of the
assembly, where the body lny, and a scene ensued
which almost baffles description. He approached
the coffin with a measured and solemn tread, and
with deep solemnity, and a hollow sepulchral voice,
HIS IMPOSTURES. 71
read the following passage from the Epistle of
James, v. 14, 15.
"Is any sick among you 1 let him call for the el-
ders of the church, and let them p1·ay orer him,
anointing him with oil, in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and THE
LORD SIIALL RAISE HUI UP."
Having read the passage, and looking round upon
the audience, with deep and solemn emphasis, he
added-" This dear woman has been anointed in the
name of Israel's God, and in obedience to this di-
vine command ; and I believe that God will fulfil
his promise." lie then repeated the last six words
of the quotation several times, emphasising the word
" shall,'' with great force and feeling, and proceeded
to argue that the whole passage was to be under-
stood literally, which he affirmed to be its certain in-
fallible meaning as revealed to him, and to that dear
woman, (pointing to the corpse), and in this faith, he
said, she died. He then related a remarkable nve-
lation made to him in a carriage as he was coming
out from the city a short time previous, and de-
clared, that the same revelation was simultaneously
made to his wife, then ni~h unto death. He stated
1hat the word of the Lo;d came to him and com-
manded him to have faith in that promise, and in that
faith to conform to the conditions, and the promise
should be fulfilled. "'hen he arrived home, he found
his wife anxious for his return, and she told him,
without hearing anything from him touching the ex-
traordinary communication from Heaven which he
had received on the way, that the Holy Ghost had
72 J.\IATTinAS AND
directed her to instruct her husband in the faith of
St. James's testimony, and assured her that she
should be raised.
:Mr. Pierson farther proceeded to say, that finding
that the moment she had received the revelation was
the identical time when his manifestation was com-
municated, he felt it his duty, and so did that dear
woman, (again pointing to the corpse), to do as the
Lord had commanded them. He accordingly col-
lected together a number of pious friends who were
in the faith, and they proceeded literally to anoint
her body with oil, and pray over her, trusting in this
promise, "The Lord shall raise him up.'' And
though her physicians had told them that she must
die, for the consumption had destroyed her lungs, yet
they knew the Lord, the Hea\'enly Physician, could
heal the sick, and even raise the dead ; and they had
strong faith in His word, that if they anointed her,
and prayed, the promise would be fulfilled, for "the
Lord shall raise him up." In that faith, he repeated,
that dear woman died. And after exhorting all
present to exercise similar faith, and affirming in the
language of the Saviour, " she is not dead but
sleepeth," he commented on the wickedness of un-
belief, and the sin of doubting the word of God.
He then unequivocally declared, that whereas, the
elders of the church had anointed her with oil and
prayed over her, if she were not raised up to-day,
now, on the spot, the tvo1·d of God falls to the ground.
But expressing his full confidence that the miracle
would be performed, for the strengthening of the
faith of his disciples, and that the mouths of gain·
IllS DlPOSTliRES. 73
sayers might be stopped, by her instant resurrection,
he invited all present to unite with him in prayer.
He then spread forth his hands over the coffin,
closed his eyes, and began a solemn and impressive
prayer. The following sentences he repeatedly used
with most impassioned feeling, and with very little
variation of language. " 0 Lord God of Israel !
thy own word declares that if the elders of the
church anoint the sick and pray over him, the Lord
Bhall raise him up. We have taken thee at thy word ;
we have anointed her with oil, and prayed the prayer
of faith, and thou knowest in this faith the dear
woman died, and in this faith we thy children live.
Now, Lord, we claim thy promise! God is not
man that he should lie, and if this dear woman is not
raised up tl!is day, thy word will fall to the ground;
thy promise is null and void ; and these gainsaying
infidels will rejoice, and go away triumphing in their
unbelief. Lord God ! thou canst not deny thyself.
Thou knowest we have performed the conditions to
the very letter. 0 Lord, now fulfil thy promise-
now, Lord-0 let not thy enemies blaspheme-show
that thou hast Almighty power-thou canst raise the
dead-we believe it, Lord. Come now, and make
good thy word, and let this assembly see that there is
a. God in Israel !" Thus he continued to pray with
a loud voice, and great effort, for nearly an hour,
when he closed and sank down into a chair, appa-
rently much exhausted, but yet with the calmness
and serenity of perfect and entire conviction. The
manner and matter of the prayer had evidently a
wonderful effect upon the audience. The attention
G .
74 lllATTHIAS AND
of every one was riveted upon the preacher, and all
eyes save those of the afflicted and weeping relatives
were fixed upon the coffin, as anxiously as though
they themselves had yielded to the delusion, and
were expecting to see the lifeless body rise up in full
health and vigour before them. In the course of
the enthusiastic effusion, a number of ladies who
were in the faith, and one of whom, as the writer
has been assured was 1\Irs. * * *, stood around the
coffin, looking intently for the miracle, and occa-
sionally touching the face and hands of the corpse,
expecting to discover signs of returning life. This
they continut)d to do, during the solemn pause which
followed,the prayer, and a 'l:lrop of blood oozing at
the moment from one of the nostrils, inspired strong
hopes that she would indeed be raised up ; and two
of the ladies stepped up to one of the physicians
present, and inquired whether that circumstance
was not a token of returning life. Upon this point
he himself says, "I could suppress the emotions
produced by this scene no longer, and after telling
them ft was an infallible evidence of death rather
than life, and a token of incipient putrefaction, I
followed them into the room, and requested the
Rev. 1\Ir. --, who stood by,and saw and heard
this solemn mockery, to address the people, and if,
possible to remove the erroneous impressions which
would otherwise result from our afflicted brother's
delusion." The effect of thE) whole scene is de-
scribed as having been paralyzing. A breathless
silence prevailed. They -looked at each other, and
even the clergymen present seemed to know not what
lllS J.l!POSTURES. 75
to say. The appeal to one of them, however, made
by the physician, as just noted, was responded to
in a very judicious and app1·opriate manner. lie
rose and remarked with emphasis,-" Yes, this be-
loved and lamented Christian SHALL rise again-AT
• THE RESURR ECTION OF THE JUST! forit i~ the promise
of God, that all those who are Christ's, he will bring
with him at his coming." Thill remark was fol-
lowed.by a series of timely observations, which had
the effect of tranquillizing the feelings of the audi-
ence. He proceeded to explain the passage in St.
James, and rejoiced in the certainty of its fulfilment.
"The Lord will raise her up, but not to-day, nor to-
morrow; yet, dying in the Lord, she shall have part
in the first resurrection," &c. Several friends then
united in requesting the sexton to close the coffin,
which was strenuously opposed by a few of the dis-
ciples, who insisted that they must wait tilll2 o'clock
(it was a morning funeral, and had been appointed
at 10 o'clock), when the miracle would certainly be
performoo. In the sequel, when they found it did
not take place, the failure was ascribed by Mrs.
* '* '*,Mrs.--, and other votaries ofl\Ir. Pierson,
to the unbelief of some of the persons present, and
they upbraided them upon the subject.
l\lr. Pierson said nothing himself, but seemed to
be lost in devout contemplati?n, and sat with perfect
confidence, awaiting the moment when his prediction
would be verified by the restoration of his wife. He
was viewed by those not labouring under the delu-
sion, as an afflicted brother, who was entitled to all
their sympathies, _in his melancholy bereavement,
76 1\IATTHIAS AND .
and his yet more melancholy state of mind ; it was
at first apprehended tha~ he might interpose objec-
tions to the interment of the body ; but he did not;
and it was laid in its narrow bed in the church-yard
in Amity street. Some.of l\lr. Pierson's particular
friends acccompanied him back to his now desolate
home, for the purpose of endeavouring to converse
with him, and if possible, restore him to a sound
state of thinking-re·adjusting the balance of his
mind. llut all was in vain. He now believed as
firmly that she would be raised at 12 o'clock at
midnight, as he had done that she would arise at
the close of his prayer at noon. Under this im-
pression, he directed her sleeping apartment to be
set in order, the bed made up, night-clothes pre-
pared for her accommodation, and all the little affairs
arranged, as for the reception of a bride. He also
sent down to the city, and procured such delicacies
as he supposed would gratify her taste.
On the following day, in conversations with his
friends, who continued their attentions to his singu-
lar case, he still insisted that she would rise again :
God, he said, had promised it, but had not specified
the particular day. He now believed her resurrec-
tion would take place at sun-rise on the following
Sabbath morning ; and such was the strength of his
faith, that he actually repaired to the grave early on
that morning, taking his little daughter with him, to
receive her embrace. And yet down to this period,
upon every other subject than that of religion, and
his religions duties, his mind was as regular, and
apparently as sound, as it had ever been. In all
IllS l~IPOSTURES. 77
business matters, moreover, he was as accurate and
acute as ever.
In the conclusion of this chapter, as l\Ir. and l\Jrs.
Folger are closely connected with this history, it is
proper to slate, that they left the city on a tour of
hen th the day after the anointing, and were not
present at any of the subsequent scenes described.
G2
78 MATTIIIAS AND
CHAPT E R IV.
Continuation of the History of Mr. Pierson-Yet believes his
Wife is to he raised from the Dead- The Negro V\'oman,
Katy, and her Visions-Extracts from Mr. Pierson's Diary-
He purchases Katy's Freedom, and sends her Home to Vir-
ginia- Continues preaching at Bowery Hill- Sickness there,
and dispersion of ' the Kingdom'-Copious Extracts from 1\lr,
Pierson's Prayers, Meditations, and Closet Exercises-Mr.
and 1\frs. Folger return to the City-They fall agam mto the
Hands of Mr. P. and Mrs. • • •-Further Extracts-Mr,
Pierson asserts the Power of Miracles-His Covenant-Ex-
traordinary Infatuation concerning His Wife-The Year 1831
~Mr. Folger's History resumed.
IT is necessary ·in the present chapter still to
pursue the history of 1\ir. Pierson. The idea that
his beloved wife was yet to be raised from the dead,
and restored to him in her own proper person, was ·
so deeply i:nplanted in his mind, as not to forsake
him for many months, and even for years .afterward.
It seems, in fact, for a long time to have had an al-
,most exclusive possession of his thoughts. Among
his papers which, from the disorder that prevailed on '
his death, and the breaking up of the establishment
at Sing Sing, seem to have been thrown into con- ·
fusion, and many of them probably lost, the writer i
has been enabled to find no record of any spiritual
interviews between Sarah and himself, after her j
burial, except that in the record of his .meditatiolli
HIS DIPOST URES. 79
on the 19th o! December following, he says, Sarah
spoke to him and said, "I agree to what you have
written." It is known, however, that he declared,
the day after the funeral, that she had appeared to
him, and many believed in the reality of his vision.
He also stated subsequently, that he had had·several
interviews with her-that her body was to be re-
stored to him-and that, according to a revelation
with which he had been favoured, she was to bear
him a son who was to be called James. Nor did
the deceased appear to her husband only. The
reader may have remarked, in a preceding page, the
name of" Katy" as among the inmates of l\Ir. Pier-
son's household on Bowery Hill. She was a woman
of colour, from Virginia, a slave, who became a
convert to 1\Ir. Pierson's doctrines, and, of course,
a member of "the kingdom." 'l'his Katy, it ap-
pears, had three interviews with lHrs. Pierson after
her burial-or rather, the wench had the art to avail
herself of the mental malady under which l\Ir. Pier-
son was suffering, and induce him to believe as much;
and he has recorded the results of the supposed
conferences between the departed mistress ·and her
servant as follows:-
KATY's CONVERSATION WITH SARAU.
Friday, July 2, 1830. She appeared sitting in the coffin, top
olf-looking well. Spoke abOut the lamp th•t !(Uided the
Christian to heaven; invisible here bec•use of •in an<! conflict-
at my espous•ls Elizabeth's hands almost touched her.
Tell Mr. Pierson to keep a close watch over Charlotte-that
light mind she has got.
Tell Timothy the time is at hand, and to look to the Lord in
£a.i.th, and get tha.t load off hia back.
80 MATTIIIAS AND
' Tell Mr. Pierson to give you those stockings you washed for
me, and my old night wrapper. I desire you would wear some-
thing of mme.
She then rose up and began to fix and give directions for the
cleaning and lixing the house. (I was the same day cleaning and
fixing the house, and ordered every thing done as I thought she
would have had it; this unbeknown to Katy].
She then came to me and pnt her hands round my neck and
whispered to me, and she saw her no more.
Monday, July 5, 1830. Katy was sitting in the door, praying that
she might see her. Sarah spoke and said, "This house 1s the
Temple of God. Do you remember the time when you did not
want us to mo\·e 1" She .showed how we were living before
we were married. We were like two trees dug up by the roots
and planted together, and we were covered by one mantle.
At that time we conversed together about the work the Lord
gave us to do, and it has been carried on ever since. I now
had the whole of It on me.
To Katy she said, "Prepare to meet Christ without sin unto
salvation" Heb. ix. 28. The Lord said not to murmur. He
took her for his own glory, and 'twas his work.
She said, " Behold the bride, the Lamb's wife ;" and Katy
had a view of the New Jerusalem. Rev. xxi. 9. Our union
was an everlasting covenant never to be broken.
Saturday, July 10, 1830. She asked" how the children were.n
" Have you got all your things ?" she asked. The Lord will do
for him (me)what He sees best before he goes away. Tell him
to go to the Penitentiary, State Prison, Almshouse, and Fi'e
Points, if it be only once or twice (Katy and Miss R-- to go
also.)
Those things which I had in hand I must lay down well [or
finish the work here well].
The last work we did togPther(Five Points)brought us nearer
to God than we ever were before.
Then the Lord took her for his own glory. She was as a
bright morning star, and God took me for his own glory. I
wonder Mr. Pierson has been so long with me in Jesus, and
dbes not know me yet.
She says the mantle, or covering, is still over us, and we are
both together in it, and shall never be separated.
' Thus much for the visions of Katy, which, as we
have remarked in a preceding page, she had "the
m·t:' to impose upon the credulity of J.\'Ir. Pierson.
IllS l:.VIPOSTURES. 81
It is not intended to be uncharitable ; the black
: woman, too, may have been partially subject to tile
delusion prevailing at Bowery IIill, since mania, like
various oth~r diseases, often becomes epidemic ; but
it will be observed that, like the king of the Mohawks,
when he dreamed that Sir William Johnson had
given him his gold-laced coat, she did not dream for
1 nothing ; and the "stockings" and " wrapper'' of the
deceased .were but small items in the total of the
gains brought by her visions. Katy was not only a
slave, but she had a family in Virginia, to which, of
course, she was desirous of returning. By what
further appliances she operated upon 1\Ir. Pierson,
is not known to the writer; but the following entries
in his diary, at subsequent periods, indicate the de-
termination to which he anived :-
Sunday, Sept. 26, 1830. After prayer conceming Katy's go-
mg to \'1r~inm. the Lord said," She may go. I will be with
her, anr! no evil shall befall her. She shall see her childreu,
and I will direct her a1,1d them in the way I have appointed for
them."
The following memorandum is of an uncertain
1ate. It is an answer to another prayer respecting 1
Katy:-
"Sen<! her away in peace. She shall retnm to her own native
and, and die. there. I will be with her. You may do for her
.Yhat yon please."
The supposed heavenly mandate was implicitly
1beyed, ~s the writer has been informed by an inti-
nate friend of 1\lr. Pierson. Katy's freedom was
1urchascd for the sum of four hundred dollars. She
82 MATTHIAS AND
was sent back to her family, a free woman, and pro-
vision was made for her support, and the money
promptly remitted until the decea~e of her bene-
factor. This is a beautiful incident in the annals
of benevolence, and shows that, notwithstanding the
errors of the head, there was a current of sympaLhy
for human wo in his hea~t which neither error nor
fanaticism could chill.
l\1r. and Mrs. Folger having returned from the
country in the month of July, were informed of the
occurrences which attended the death and burial of
Mrs. Pie;son, and which, they were also told, had
induced those acquainted with the circumstances to
pronounce Mr. Pierson a deranged man. They
lost no time in having an interview, and were satis-
fied from his conversation, and the explanation of his
views, that he was not deranged-a conclusion which
proves veryclearly that they were getting yet more
deeply involved in the delusion themselves. Mr.
Pierson spoke to them of the " first resurrection,''
and contended that he had only been in error as
to the lime, but requested them not to recur to the
subject in future. He continued to preach as be
fore, and with yet stronger confidence, inasmuch as
he construed the communication made to him on
the 20th of June into a special commission. No
child ever believed more implicitly what was told
him by a kind father, than he believed that the Spirit
had said to him, " I have named thee this day E li-
jah the Tishbite," &c. ; and henceforward he wa!
greatly anxious to relinquish his commercial pursuits
and devote himself entirely to the ministry. To the
IllS IMPOSTURES. 83
question, whether he had received the appointment
by an audible annunciation, he replied, " I hea1·d it.
You could not have heard it ; but I heard it as dis-
tinctly as I ever heard any thing in my life." He
had another motive to continue preaching, from a
promise which, he says in his diary, God made to
him on the 4th of July, "If thou wilt preach my
Gospel, thou shalt have thy wife."
In the month of August, the intermittent fever
broke out with severity upon the Hill, and the fami-
lies of l\Ir. Pierson, l\Ir. Folger, and others of the
community, sickened. The consequence was a
separation and dispersion for several months. 1\lr.
Pierson, however, having repeatedly made the sub-
ject of a removal or flight into the country a subject
of special prayer, declined leaving, in obedience, as
he supposed, to the direction of the Holy Spirit.
The following are extracts from his exercises upon
this occasion. Nothing can manifest stronger con-
fidence in God, or greater sincerity :-
.Allgust 16, 1830. 0 Lord Jesus, I am thine, and thou hast all
power in heaven and in earth ; thou hast power over the body
to heal and to make sick.
Now, 0 Lord Jesus, I commit my body to thee, and pray for
thy watchful and fatherly care over me for time to come. Di-
ict me concerning diet, clothing. exposures to the weather. If
take any thing hurtful, or do any thing hurtful, do thou watch
ver it and turn away the evil from me. If thou seest good to
eave me to sickness, do thou be with me and guide those who
ave the care of me ; and in all things, even as a tender mother
atches over her offspring, so do thou watch over me and pre-
erve me for thy work and service.
A,.,wer. I have accepted thee, and my word shall be sure unto
hee.
August 25, 1830. 0 Lord Jesus, I am thy servant, and J now
sk counsel of thee concerning my future work. Lord, is it thy
84 ~IATTIIIAS AND
will that I cease my labours here for the present! If so, where
must l go, and where must I remove my dwelling? Shall I
only shut up the bouse, or move away alt.ogether, and dispose
of the furniture?
0 Lord, direct me concerning these things, and theinmates
of the family !
Augu.st 29, 1830. Inquired of the Lord, who said I must give
up all thoughts of leaving this place, but continue steadfaslly
and faithfully to do the work he would give me to do. Told
the Lord people complained of my stay here. He said, "I will
justify it."
In order to illustrate yet more fully the peculiar
state of his mind at this time, it is judged proper to
devote a few pages to a series of extracts from his ,
diary. BJJ1 twJl subjects seem to have..had..posses~·
,.rtlsion of his thoughts, sleeping or waking~the ser~
~~··· vice of God, and the restoration ofllls wife. Thent
t · •t
1
is, indeed, through all his closet exercises, an expres·
· \' sion of wonderful faith, love, and a childlike trust
'' Ji' and confidence in God. Every burden of his heart
he carries at once to the mercy-seat in prayer, and
spreads every thing before God as Hezekiah did the
letter of Sennacherib.
August 25, 1830. 0 Lord, some days since thou didst say unto
me in the night, " Separate me Barnabas and Paul for the work
whereunto I have called them." Now, Lord Jesus, give me
wisdom to do what is required, and in the way thou wilt have it
done.
0 Lord, some days since (the next night after the command
to separate Barnabas and Paul) in the silence of the night thou
didst ask me, "Wilt thou have thy wife?" 0 Lord, my heart
replied, yea, Lord, I will. Now, Lord Jesus, grant me the desire
of my soul. and let us be together in all thy work in the building
up of thy kingdom.
Lord Jesus, take this thing into thine own hands, and bring to
pass, and herein ,;lorify thyself, and take [away] my reproach.
A•ked the Lord If I had any thing more to do about It. He
IllS niPOSTURES. 85
•aid, "Thou bast committed it to me. I will bring it to pass-
wait patiently." ·
Wednesday, Aug."'t 25, 1830. Lord Jesus, thou didst.say to me,
fast and pray to prepare myself for thy good gift. 0 Lord Jesus,
I expect great things from thee. 0 Lord, direct me when to
begm, how long to continue fasting, and every other particular
in which I need wisdom in this matter.
Ansu·er. Fast three days from even to even, and begin this
evening. The taking thy medicine and thy sickness are no
hinderance.
[1 began fasting Wednesday at sundown, and continued to
Saturday after sundown, taking neither food nor drink, e.<cept
oome medicine the first fourteen hours.]
Aupt 27, 1830. The second day ofmy fast after solemn con·
fession of the sins of my whole life, which I had taken much
pains to recollect; dividmg my life into portions bounded by re-
markable periods, writing down the heads to help my memory
-including sins of ignorance, and those omitted or Jorgotten.
The Lord assured me they were all forgiven, blotted out, and
carried away into the land of forgetfulness.
That I should be clothed in fine linen, clean and white, which
is the righteousness of the saints. The Lord also told me I must
not go back hereafter, and grieve on account these old sins
about which I had prayed, nor strive to get any burden con·
ceming them. This would displease him, seeing he had re·
moved them for ever from his remembrance. The Lord also
aid, "Now thou mayst ask what thou wilt, !Wd it shall be done
nto thee."
Continued, Augmt 28, 1830. Lord, I do expect great things
rom thee, and do covet the best gifts. 0 Lord Jesus, thou hast
ailed me to preach the Gospel, and I desire to be thoroughly
umished for the work. Now, Lord, grant to me all the graces,
ifts, and qualifications, both of mind and body, which thou
·dst give to thy Son Jesus for the fulfilling of his ministry; and
{there be any thing whatever lacking, let it be added.
Answer. Son, all that I have is thine; that which thou hast
sked is freely granted unto thee, and thou shalt have everv
ood and perfect gift, that I may be glorified in thee. We will
with thee in th1s work. We in thee, and thou in us, and be
cHow-workers together; and this work shall be carried on till
he world shall end.
Augmt 29, 1830. Inquired of the Lord, who said "Thou art
ll
80 ~lA TTHIAS AXD
Paul, and thy wile Barnabas-she •hall come and labour with
thee, thou hast done aU I required of thee."
Morristown, Wednesday, September I, 1830. 0 Lord Jesus, I
am thy servant, and thou hast brought me here. Thou knowest
the tender recollections which meet me on every hand, and in
almost every object on which my eye fixes. Lord Jesus, J flee
to thee for refuge and strength in this time of need. Grant me,
Lord, what. J need, so that I may glorify thee while here. Lord,
I beseech thee help me in my outwan\ conduct, in my conversa-
tion ; give me sound wisdom in all temporal matters, and in all
things, SO that 1may not giYe offence to any, Or bring a reproach
on thy name.
Answer. Thou seekest my glory, and thou shalt have strength,
and shalt glorify me.
While meditating on the scenes in which Sarah had been
with me here, the Lord said to me, "Tllis is the last trial I will
lay upon thee concerning tltis matter. It was needful for thee
to come here where the people had seen thy attachment for
her, that they might also see my power in supporting thee in this
trial. Thy will be done."
Sunday, September 19, 1830. 0 Lord Jesus, I am thine, and de-
sire to do thy will. Now, 0 Lord, be not angry with me if I come
again to thee for sure direction whether J must stay in the house
till Mar. next, what arrangements I shall make for the care of
the children, their schooling, and all they need; for Timothy,
and what he needs; and for my own comfort and reputation;
and for thy work, and all other things needful and proper for me
in my circumstances.
After much earnest intercession concerning the above, the
direction of the Lord was,-
lst. You must remain-you will not please me except you
give up all thoughts of gomg away; they are hurtful to my
work.
2d. Made known the other tltings to the Lord, and pleaded
for Sarah to be restored to me, to take care of all these matters.
The Lord said it should be speedily done, and that I must write
it down, for there should be a performance of the tltings
promised.
0 Lord, I come to thee to ask counsel of thee, when I must
bring my business with Mr. S. to a close, whether at the end ofl
the present year, or at the end of one year from that time. 0
Lord, direct me ancl him about it, and let every thing be done iD
peace and good will.
.· Answer. Thou must close thy business at the end of this year,
JIIS IMPOSTURES. 87
I have need of thee for my work, and cannot spare thee longer.
I will satisfy his (S.) mind, and he will let thee go, and thou
shalt have wherewith to live.
0 Lord Jesus, my mind is often burdened and distressed with
the fear, that in the work thou hast given me to do I may by
eome means be led astray into some false way.
0 Lord, I commit this matter to thee, and do earnestly entreat
thee, for thy great name's sake, so to guide and direct me in all
thy work, that I may be kept in thy way and from all error. 0
Lord, fer thy name's sake, for thy people's sake, for thy truth's
sake, help me in this matter. 0 Lord, the eyes of many are
upon me, waiting for me to fall.
After earnest prayer on the above, it was said,-
"We will undertake for thee; we will be with thee in all that
we command thee to do, and thou shalt not fail or be discour-
aged till all be accomplished. Our power and strength are
pledged for thy support, and thou shalt have them in time of
need.,.
0 Lord Jesus, I am troubled with various temptations which
I desire to mention to thee, and entreat thy help to strengthen
me against them, and to raise me above their influence.
!st. The thoughts of what will be. said when I shall baptize
in thy nome, it's being out of order, &c.
2rl. \Vhat is said about my visions, revelations, &c., the dan·
ger of walking in this way, &c.
3d. Fear that the work will eventually fail and come to
naught.
4th. Fear of being left to want on leaving the business.
Now, 0 Lord, l cast these burdens upon thee, and pray for
deliverance from them, and any others thou seest me labouring
under. 0 Lord, raise me above them, and enable me to rejoice
in what has heretofore been a burden.
After prayer upon each article seP.arately, the Lord answered,
!st. I will strengthen thee: I w1ll remove it from thee, and
thou .shalt rejoice in thy work : I have called thee to preach and
baptize.
Answer 2d. \Ve will strengthen thee, and these things shall
be no hinderance to thee.
Answer 3d. Thou hast cast this burden upon me ; I will take
it from thee, that it be no longer a burden to thee.
A'"""er 4th. Write-" the earth is the Lord's and the fulness
thereof, and that they that serve him shall be fed with the finest
of the wheat, and shall have abundance of every good thing-for
he mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. Amen,"
Srytember 22, 1830. This morning, while in prayer, I had in the
pirit a full view of the Father and tl)e Son, Sarah standmg be-
88 MATTHIAS AND
tween them. The impression made on my mind was, that the
Lord was preparing her for her return. This view continued
most of the day.
September 28, 1830. When I awoke in the morning, my mind
was filled wi\h the thoughts of whatElisha did after Elijah had
cast h1s mantle upon him, m sacnficmg the oxen with which he
did his work-thereby intimating his determination never to re-
turn to worldly employments again. lt appeared to me my de-
termination to leave business must be of the same character, or
that it was such.
Sunday, October 3, 1830. Had a season of earnest prayer for
Sarah's resurrection in the body; though the Lord appeared dis-
pleased with me in other things, and rebuked me, yet he said
concermng this, "Thy prayer is heard." .,.,1
:Monday evening, October 4, 1830. Went to the Lord in earnest
prayer-humbled myself, and made confession of sins. The
Lord said, " These are forgiven thee, go in peace." Asked
whether I had done wrong in speaking about my faith in Sarah's
resurrection to Mrs. D--and sister J---. The Lord answered,
"Thou hast done no wroug." Asked if I ought to speak my
mind about it in time to come. He said, "My Spirit will teach
thee when to speak and when to forbear." Told the Lord how
many thought concerning my being ordained of men. He re-
plied, "Thou hast been set apart according to my mind, and
hast no need to go to men. That I must be willing to bear re-
proach and be rejected as Jesus was. That I should have his
power, and be succeeded in the work; yet I must follow his
steps, and not expect better treatment. As the people rejected,
I must stand still and see the salvation of God."
The Lord gave me much precious encouragement an,d many
promises after I had humbled myself.
I
Tuesday evening, October 5, 1830. Before meetinll:, while medi- I
tating. the Lord said, "I am come;" and I felt as 1f it was really I
so-l felt the Lord was very present. ·
During the meeting, while one was in prayer and mentioned I
the grave, the Lord said to me, "This is nothing to thee (the 1
grave), for thou hast triumphed over it by faith" (conquered it). I
This seemed spoken in relation to Sarah.
Friday, October 22, 1830. At the store opened to John xv. 15,
20. The word" remember," in connection with what follows,
was deeply impressed on my mind. It seemed as if the Saviour
J!IS IMPOSTlTRES, 89
!poke it to me, and that I must ever keep in vi.ew what he
there soys, as to me, and as a warning that these things shall
be so to me. 0 Lord, help me to remember!
lYednwlay, Octuber 27, 1830. This morning, before going out,
went to my closet to pray. At the beginning I had a. sweet
gentle influence come over me. Jesus came and stood at my
right hand, and, putting his hand on my head, said, " Peace be
unto you, receive ye the Holy Ghost-as my Father hath sent I
me, even so send I you. \Vhosesoever sins ye remit, they are
remitted unJo them; and whosesoever sins ye ret3ill, they are re.
tained. Go into ali the "'orld, and preach the Gospel to every
creature. Teach all nations, baptizmg them in the name of the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost-teaching them to observe all
things whatsoever 1have commanded you, and lo I am with you
always, even unto the end of the world."
Saturday, Nov<mh<r 13, 1830. W'ent to my closet to ponr out
my soul to the Lord, who said to me, "Ask what thou wilt."
.thked. Lord, I desire to have a heart to walk before thee as
Jesus did.
Answer. I have granted thee a heart to do my will as I did my
Father's."
Lor<!, confirm and seal to me from this day all that I have
asked of thee of the graces, gifts, and qualifications of.,ody and
mind thou didst give Jesus for the performance of his ministry
in the world."
Answ<r. They are sure to thee for ever more. ·
Lord Jesus, I ask to be delivered from the dominion of death
and the grave. When I have finished thy work in the world,
!!rant that I may come to thee (without passing through death) I
In the war and manner thou shalt see most for thy glory."
When had prayed this prayer, a solemnity and feeling of the
presence of tne Lord came over me, and some passages of Scrip-
ture, as John xi. 35. I am the resurrection and the life, &c.;
and 26th verse, whosoever believeth in me shaii never die.
Answer to the above. "My son, this is a great thing; but as thou
, ast faith, it shall be as thou hast asked." .,\,~
1
After ra ·er, in meditation the Lo 'rl "John's ministry_ \ \'/
is u e ere. a come to mlrl up my 1\ilJg o~J'hlln
artlierutofthe cornm-:- Thou shalt have power to work miracles , ··r
,m mv name, and to do many m~ghty works. Wnte these thmgs nJ.' I
down, that others may know my power, and see my faithfulness. \ '
I Thou hast asked all I designed: go in peace (from thy closet.) \
i have blessed thee, thou art mybelo,·ed son in whom I am well 1lI' .
pleased." <J'r-
H2 /
~~
90 MATTIIIAS AND
The Lord said, thou art a wonder to Angels, because of thy
faith.
This evening the Lord said, "This is my covenant with you,
saith the Lord; thou shalt have Sarah thy wife, and she shall
be with thee in all thy work, and shall bear thee a son, and thou
shalt call his name James. Thou shalt have Abraham's bless-
ing." '
Snnday, November 21, 1830. Went to the closet to pray; had
sweet communion with my beloved Saviour. Entreated the
Lord to confirm to me the covenant "nrl blessin~ above written
(13th Nm·ember) respecting Sarah, that it mignt be an ever-
lasting covenant between us, and tilat my soul might rest upon
it with unwavering confidence.
Answer. It is confirmed unto thee this day for an everlasting
covenant between us, and thy soul shall rest upon it as upon
the rock of ages. Go write it down."
Late in the autumn, M~. Folger and his wife hav-
ing returned to New-York, without, as it would
seem, directly renewing their association with the
Bowery Hill community, were sought out by l\Ir.
Pierson
• and Mrs. * * *, and unhappily again fell
under their influence. 1\Ir. Pierson repeated to
them the exercises of his mind during their separa-
tion, and informed them, among other things, that he
had received the gift of the laying on of hands: He
then laio his hands on the heads of Mr. and Mrs.
Folger, their children, and on Mrs. * * '~<. But his
gifts did not stop at laying on of hands. He was
next endowed with the power of working miracles.
The following note in his diary is without date, but
that which follows inilicates about the time when it
\./' was probably written :-
\'
The Lord encouraged me to faith ; and, in relation to mir-
acles, said I might do whatever I could. Nothing should be
impossible to me.
IIIS IMPOSTURES. 91
In relation to converts, I might have as many as I would, if it
were to the number of one hundred forty and'four thousand.
December 1, 1830. Thy petition for the gift of faith to work
miracles in my name is granted.
Sarah mu•t first be raised up-this is the first miracle to be
wrought-thi• is to the work what the promise of the Spirit was
to the disciples before the day of Pentecost. Nothing can be
done till th1s is done. ·
Concerning the first resurrection, it was said, "The kingdom
first to be set up; the way of the Lord prerared; the gospel
preached among all nations. Thou shalt be w1th me in Paradise
before that time, but slrall come with me when I come."
l\Ir. Folger and his wife being members of l\Ir.
Pierson's church, regarded it as a duty to receive
baptism by immersion. But difficulties were in the
way, inasmuch as he had applied to the clergy in
vain for ordination. These parties, and l\Irs. '* '* '*
having (as he states in his diary) expressed a
willingness to be baptized by him, he asks counsel
of God on the 9th of December:-
Now, Lord Jesus,! commit this matter to thee, and pray tliee
to take it into thine own hands ; direct all things concerning it;
bring it to pass in thine own way and time, and let us know it.
Answer. I have accepted this burden of thee. I will bring it
to pass in my own time and way, and will glorify myself in it.
Thou shalt know the time.
• December 11, 1830. Lord Jesus, thou hast said to me, as my
Father sent me, even so do I semi you. Go teach all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Fathert Son, and Holy Ghost;
teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have com·
manded you. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the
world. '
Lord Jesus, I do gladly receive thy command, and promise
obedience, relying ~m thy gracious promises.
An.<Wer. My grace is sufficient for thee.
Now, Lord Jesus, I do make a firm covenant witb thee this
ni11ht, take me for thine own servant, do with me what thou
w1Jt. Send me when and where thou wilt, to preach thy Gospel,
and in every thing Jet thy grace bQ sufficient ~or me.
92 ll!ATTHIAS AND
" Lord Jesus, now grant me eYery gift and grace I need tQ do
thy work and glorify thee on earth; eYen as thy Father didst fur-
nish and send thee, so do thou qualify me, that as thou didst, so
enable me to fini•h the work thou shalt give me to do on the
earth. . ~ .
" Lord, confi!ll> all the prom•ses thou hast made me smce thou
hast called me to preach thy Gospel. ·
"Now, Lord Jesus, my beloved Saviour, I have committed
my all into thine hanrls, relying on thy loved power. Accept
my offering, and let this coYenant be established between me
and thee, and when dangers and difficulties surround me, be thou
my mighty helper and deliYerer.
ELIJAH PIERSON.
Answer. My son, I agree to this covenant, and it shall be
established between me and thee for e,·er.
After the above was written, in meditating thereon, the
Lord said, "Now thou art mine-now will! bless thee and glo-
rify myself in thee. The covenant of mv peace is with thee.
As I live, saith the Lord, thy companior. shan be rasied up. and
shall be with thee in the work, and shall bear tllee a son, and
thou shalt call his name James. When you have done my
work, you shall ascend up to me, and not pass through the
grave."
Decemher !9th, 1830-Sunday. After the family had gone
out, went to prayer-besought the Lord. to teach me what to
pray for: the words," He was in the Spirit on the Lord's day,"
came into my mind. The Lord said, pray for the Holy Ghost.
After prayer it was said, thy r.etition was granted. Thou hast
received the Holy Ghost in aU his miraculous influences.
I asked if there was any outward visible sign. The Lord
said, "No: it was from Spirit to spirit. Thou hast received
the Holy Ghost, and shalt work miracles and wonders in my
name. Thou shalt prophecy in my name to the people. and thy
word shall be established. That which thou hast spoken con-
cerning thy wife shall be fulfilled. My word (James v. 15) on
which thou hast. relied shall be established, that the people may
know my faithfulness. My kingdom shall come, &c. Set up
with power and great glory, and be extended over the whole
earth. Thou shalt prophesy to many nations, and thy "ife
shall he with thee; and when you have finished your work, you
shall both of you together a•cend up to heaven like Elijah of old.
What is written in Hevelations, lith chapter, relates to you and
your work. The second commg of Jesus Chnst, and the firs~
resurrection, will not take place till after your ascension to
heaven."
Dscember 26th, !830-Sunday. The Lord said, the key o!
IllS IMPOSTURES. 93
knowledge is given unto thee. Thou shalt open and no man
shut, and shut and no man open.
December 27th, 1830. Prayed concerning Sarah; asked the
Lord to show whether I had rightly understood his promise to
rai!<e her up in the body, and if she would be with me in the
work. The Lord said, Did 1 ever give you a stone for bread, or
a serpent for a fish.
Decnnher 31st, 1830-evenin~r. Lord Jesus, this is the season
for giving and receiving gifts; and by thy help I have given to
the members of the family; and ·now I come to thee, 0 Lord,
aud pray thee to condescend to me. Lord, thou art my fnend,
my lielper. Lord Jesus, I would give thee a gift and ask thee
a gift. Lord Jesus, I would give thee my heart, and I would
ask thee, Lord, to give me thy heart in return-the heart thou
adst while on earth. That meek and holy heart, filled with
1love to God and man, zeal, wisdom, purity, and every grace.
Answer. My son, I have accepted thy gift, and thy petition is
granted unto thee to the uttermost. Write it down.
Lord Jesus ! I desire of thee to raise up and restore to me
my companion Sarah. 0 Lord, let it be for my New-year's
ift. Let it now come to pass.
AnSW<T. Thy request is granted unto thee, and it shall,be done.
Wednesday, .Tanut~ry I2th, 1831. Concerning ordination, the
ord said, "Thou h.,st nothing to do: thou hast committed it
o me, and I will bring it to pass."
The following is without date :-
"When the true prophets begin to appear, they will be holy
en, endued with the Holy Ghost. They will preach the true
Octrines for those days, These doctrines will be the reverse
f what the false teachers are preaching, and so different from
hat people have believed, that for a time they will be consid-
red deranged, mad, wicked persons. There will then be a
pecial fulfilment of the Saviour's words, John xvi. 2, 4. John
v. 20, 2l. '
" They shalt put you out of the synagogue-yea, the time
ometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God
rvice; and these things will they do unto you because they
mve not known the Father nor me."
Extracts might be multiplied to an almost indefinite
xtent, all written in a kindred spiri~ of love to God
.
•
t.
"
••
l ...•
I
94 MATTIIlAS AND
and man, and extending through the year 1831, and
a part of 1832. So particular}y_w~!h.~.autho.r. o£
these strangely wild, and yet singularly pious, d_
evo-
tional effusions, in asking counsel of God on every
occasion of business or duty, that a history of his
worldly,as well as ofhis religious life, might almost be
compiled froin his prayers. But after the middle of
1832 his diary seems to have been much neglected-
the religous fervour which it previously breathed
in every sentence had evaporated ; until, at length,
the entries consisted for the most part of mere dry
memoranda of dates and facts. There is, moreover,
throughout all his prayers one peculiarity, which
may not have caught the attention of the reader.
In all his supplications to the Saviour, he nowhere j
recognises him as CHRisT, or, Tm: ANOINTED. The
words" Lord Jesus" occur frequently and affection-
ately, but nowhere ~oes he say" Jesus Christ;" and
the writer has been informed that he would not al-
low the consecrated title of CHRIST to be applied to
Jesus, the son of the Blessed.
In the spring of 1831 1\lr. Pierson removed
from Bowery Hill into Fourth-street, as also did
Mrs. * * *-occupying a part of the same house.
The dwelling was spacious, and l\Ir. Pierson re-
served the most ample apartments for himself-
the largest of which was fitted up as a chapel
for his meetings, and COIJSecrated for that purpose.
1\lr. Folger at the same time removed from the city
to Singsing-the health of himself imd wife having
been but indifferently good for months, and a coun-
try residence being desirable. Still being anxious
to receive the holy ordinance of baptism by im-
IllS ntPOSTURES. 91}
mersion, they were baptized at Singsing by the
Rev. 1\Ir. Frey, and were admitted into the fellow·
l'hip and communion of the 1\lount Pleasant Bap-
tist Church, with which they worshipped until their
return to New-York in the following autumn.
l\Ir. Pierson was then preaching, to use his own
language, like Paul at Rome, "in his own hired
house," in Fourth-street; l\h. Folger and his wife
worshipped for a time with a Baptist church in the
upper part of the city, until Mr. Pierson again ap-
proached them with overtures to attend the meetings
at his own house. Complying with the request,
they found him preaching that the days of the apos-
tles were to be revived; and he urged upon them to
exercise their faith in the Lord, that the gifts of the
apostles might be restored tothem-in one word, that,
like the disciples of Jesus Christ, they might be en-
abled to heal the sick, cast out devils, and raise the
dead. He likewise continued to denounce those
errors of the church which had first induced him to
withdraw from the South Baptist Church, viz. the
renting of pews, receiving collections on the Sab-
bath, and paying salaries to clergymen. It is not
to be denied that he succeeded in making some im-
pression upon both l\Ir. Folger and his wife; but
they again separated in April, 1832, on the return
of lHr. Folger to his country residence at Sing-
sing. Business engagements called him yet farther
into the interior of the country ; and the first infor-
mation he received of the arch-deceiver, in whose
toils he afterward became so deeply entangled, of
any particular note, was contained in the newspapers,
in August or September, 1832.
96 ~lATTH!AS AND
CHAPTE R V.
Another extraordinary case, commencinl/ in religious depression
-Frequent mistakes in the treatment of such cases-The
Patient travels to New-Orleans-Thence to England and
France-Returns to New-York-Apparently recovers health
and elasticity ofspirits-Becomes acquainted with Mr. Pierson
-Falls into his Views-Extraordinary Fasting-Its Effects-
Commences Preaching-Extracts from Mr. Pierson:S Diary-
A~pearance of Matthias to Pierson and his new Associate-
His Annunciation-They receive and embrace his Doctrines
-Remarkable Coincidence-Pierson becomes John the Bap-
tist-Heads of a Sermon-T he Impostor is taken to the house
of M. H. S.- Luxury and Extravagance-Rich Costumes
-Specimen of Matthias's Orations-Further Extracts from
Pierson's Diary-Fancies his wife's Spirit inhabits another-
Remarkable Notes-Letters to Mr. Pierson. ,
AMONGthe attendants upon l\Ir. Pierson's preach-
ing " in his own hired house" during the winter and
spring of 1832 was a highly respectable merchant,
instead of whose name the letters M. H. S. will be
substituted, and of whom it is necessary to give
some account in detail. He was naturally of a con-
templative mind, ardent in his attachments, and
withal of a somewhat enthusiastic temperament.
No man was more universally esteemed than he, for
his many excellent qualities of head and heart, by all
who knew him. Until the month of January, 1830,
his health and spirits had always been good. An
alteration was then observed in his conduct, which,
continuing to increase, became a cause of uneasi-
JIIS IMPOSTURES. 97
ness to his friends. He was not only pensive, but
became so exceedingly depressed and gloomy, that
serious apprehensions were entertained for the re-
sult. At length he took a friend into an upper
chamber and poured out the burden of his soul-the
eternal interests-the salvation of which was now
his chief concern. Every thing that tenderness and
sympathy could dictate was done to alleviate his
mental sufferings ; but for a long time without any
beneficial effect. It was a case of deep conviction
of.sin,-a soul convinced that it wtts lost without the
pardoning mercy of God-feeling itself helpless-
tortured by horrible anticipations-trembling under
the condemnation of the violated law, as proclaimed
from the burning mount of an offended Deity-and
longing to hear the still small voice of mercy,-but
ignorant of the true and only method of obtaining par-
don and peace by the simple act of faith in the Lord
Jcsus Christ, and the entire surrender of the heart
to Him. This depression continuing to increase
for months, he was advised to travel for the benefit
of exercise and the change of scenery.
His malady having been pronounced physical, an
able physician was employed to travel with him, and
thus several months were occupied in a visit to his
parental roof in Connecticut, to the Springs, and , ,
elsewhere. But all to no purpose : the disease r
was a wounded- spirit i and for such a malady there
isout one me-
dicine-the balm of Gilead-and but
one physician to apply it. And here, if the writer
may be allowed to digress for a moment upon this
point, he would offer a few words in reference to
I
•.
!)8 litATTHIAS AND
the too frequent treatment of persons thus sorrowing
for their sins, and eager to escape the awful penalty
due to their transgressions. In cases of genuine
brokenness of heart, where the sufferer is in dark-
ness and "has no light," in the view of the writer,.
it is a mistake too often committed, even by very
pious friends and counsellors, to attribute the de-
pression-,-the gloom-the anguish of soul~in the
main to physical causes. The patient feels that it
is not so-he knows that it is not so; and he says
with Job, in his ewn bitterness of heart, " miserable
comforters are ye all." The truth is, there are
hundreds and thousands of excellent, kind-hearted,
and deeply religious people, whom it has pleased the
Most High to lead gently to the mercy-seat,--upon
whose hearts the Holy Spirit has breathed without
breaking and crushing them to pieces,-and who do
not, and cannot truly understand and sympathize with
those who are called to pass, as it were, through the
very flames of Sinai ; who, for wise purposes, are
kept for weeks, and months, and years in the valley
of the shadow of death-in the depths out of
which the Psalmist cried (Ps. cxxx. ), and whose
anguish of soul--whose agony-can be felt by none
but themselves. · For such cases, the best counsel-
lors and comforters, aside from God's invitations
and promises in his own word, are those Christian!
friends who have been called to pass through deep
waters themselves.*'
* The practical books which the writer would recommend
for such cases are, first of all (the Bible excepted), Bunyan's
"Jerusalem Sinner Saved;" and next to this, "Owen on the
IllS n!POSTURES. 99
But to resume the narrative. Returning again
to the city, l\Ir. l\1. H. S. was yet more gloomy
than befi,re. An overland journey from New-York
to New-Orleans was then undertaken for his diver-
sion,-his brother and another friend accompanying
him. This joumey was made as pleasant as pos-
sible by traversing the most interesting regions of
country, but with little or no improvement of the
mind of the sufferer. There were, indeed, short in-
tervals of comparative relief-moments in which the
rays of light broke through the gloom-but they
were few and transient. From New-Orleans they
embarked for Liverpool, although l\1r. l\I. H. S. did
so with great reluctance. He shut himself up in
the cabin for many days in a state of the most
wretched despondency. Being at length forced
upon deck while midway of the ocean, the transition
from gloom to the excess of joy was instantaneous.
The boundless expanse of the heaving· ocean, and
the bright sky, seemed to give him the most extrava-
gant delight. But it was soon over and gone.
After visiting Ireland, and the British and French
capitals, they returned to New-York in l\Iay, 1831.
\Vhile abroad, he was unwilling to remain an hour
in any one place, and was apparently utterly inat-
tentive to every thing around him. His habits,
during the whole of his journeyings, were very de-
cxxxth Psalm,"" Christ our F.xample," by Caroline Fry, "The
Progressive Experience of the Heart," by Mrs. Stevens,
"BJCkersteth on Prayer," and the incomparable series of Ex-
perimental Guicles, recently published by the Rev.Robert Philip,
commonly called "Philip's Guides"-to which may be added,
Abbott's "Corner-stone."
100 niATTHIAS AND
votional, both in regular and ejaculatory prayer; and
he frequently visited clergymen to hold conversa-
tions, but obtained no relief.
The summer of this year was again chiefly spent
in travelling; and as he entered upon active religious
duties his mind became more rational and composed.
He purchased a country seat, and attached himself
to a Presbyterian church in the neighbourhood ; and
was only distinguished from other professors by
his activity and excess of zeal in the temperance
cause, and his enthusiasm in religious meetings. In
the autumn he returned to the city-declared him-
self well and happy-and summoned his relations
and friends around him to celebrate a jubilee, ai he
called the occasion.
He now resumed his business, but declared his
purpose to have it conducted upon different princi-
ples than before. He determined to introduce re-
ligion into the store ; and to exhort his clerks upon
that most important of all subjects, begging his
friends, however, to checl1 him when they discovered
symptoms of going too far. For a time his affairs
proceeded well ; his tranquillity of mind had re-
turned ; and he had become peculiarly happy in re-
ligious contemplations, and in deeds of benevolence
and charity.
It was in the month of February, 1832, that he
inquired of a relative whether he was acquainted
with Elijah Pierson. It subsequently appeared that
he had had an interview with l\lr. Pierson on the
29th of December; and, as we have seen, he was
himself precisely in that state of mind to be operated
HIS IMPOSTURES, 101
upon by so sincere and excellent a man as that gen-
tleman was universally known to be-aside from his
religious hallucination, of which his new acquaint-
ance was not aware, if, indeed, he was in a con-
dition of mind to appreciate it. Having made the
inquiry as aforesaid, he pt oceeded to extol l\Ir. Pier-
son as one of the most heavenly-minded men in the
world. On being informed that l\Ir. Pierson was
not considered to be exactly in his right mind, he
replied-" 01., it is not so now." He then spoke
.of the manner of his becoming acquainted with him,
and described the meetings at his house, the char-
acter of his preaching, &c. He was again cautioned
by his anxious relative, and informed of the man-
ner in which JUr. Pierson had behaved at the time
of the death of his wife. All this he admitted, but
added, that it amounted to nothing ; and even if he
had acted in a rather wild and eccentric manner on
that occasion, he was now one of the most perfect
and rational men in the universe. HithiHto, since
his return, he had been a constant attendant upon
church; but he now withdrew, and listened only to
the preaching of 1\Ir. Pierson. In short, their views
soon became perfectly coincident, and withal pro-
foundly extravagant. He, too, soon commenced
preaching, and the new spiritual friends held their
meetings at each other's house alternately-each
doing the preaching in his own, and attended by
the faithful of " the kingdom."
His next step was the adoption of l\Ir. Pierson's
system of fasting--and even going beyond him.
On one occasion he fasted rigidly seven days, and
J2
102 1\[ATTJIIAS AND
at another time attempted to fast fourteen. lie
wasted away to a mere skeleton, so that his friends
were apprehensive that he would sink down in the
streets from exhaustion. Day after day, in the store,
would he rinse his mouth with water, taking the ut-
most care not to swallow a drop, and sometimes he
was reduced to such a pass as to be revived only by
the application of Cologne water. His practice
was to walk frequently on the Battery ; and on one
occasion he was found in the evening pro~trate and
helpless from starvation, and carried home. He
was continually exhorting others at the store to fol-
low his example, and when affectionately admonished
by his friends of the consequences, he would listen
to no expostulations-but repliei that he must fast,
and God would tell him when to stop. At one time
a clergyman was called in to persuade him to take
food, but he wnuld not ; and it was only after his
friends had induced Mr. Pierson to come and urge
him to eat, that he would listen to them.
During this period, l\Ir. Pierson continued preach-
ing as usual ; and even yet, upon all subjects, ex-
cepting those of religion, the resurrection of his
wife, and his own personal relations, both to this
and the eternal world, he was apparently as sound
in his intellect as any man in the city. Neverthe-
less, the following entry occurs in his journal on
the occasion of the burial of his father, Benjamin
Pierson, whose funeral he attended at Morristown,
on the 12th of February (1832} :-
While they were preparing the coffin to let it down into the
grave, these words were spoken to me :-"So shall they bury
thee, and the third day thou shalt rise again."
IIIS IAIPOSTURES. 103
1\Ir. Pierson's meetings were well attended, and
converts were occasionally added to his flock, some-
times even from without the confines of the city.
1\IrO>."'"'"' having visited Newark, made a proselyte
there of a l\Irs. D--, whose name occurs occa-
sionally in l\Ir. Pierson's private meditations. About
this time, however, she seems to have been waver-
ing ; such, at least, is the inference from the follow-
ing entry in the diary :-
Apri/12, 1832. 'Vent to Newark. Saw and conversed with
1\lrs. D--, who appeared disturbed in her mind about the
kingdom, and afraid to come to the light, because of the cross
coming out of her present connection. She felt ashamed of me
and my <loctrine. She rejected me, and the Lord rejected her.
Nevertheless, she shall be brought in through great bodily suf-
ferings, and the way she ought now to have come in. These
words came to my mind when I left the house-" Ye shall see
me no more till the day ye shall say, blessed is he that cometh
in the name of the Lord." Miss 13-- was there at the time.
Three days afterward the following entry occurs,
which shows that the condition of l\Ir. Pierson's
mind remained much the same as in the preceding
autumn:-
Wcdllesclay evening, April 15, 1832. Lord, thou didst tell me to
fast and pray three days, and begin this evening, for wisdom to
understand the Scriptures, and it should be given me. 0 Lord
Jesus, I ask thee to grant me wisdom to understand the Scrip·
tures; the gift of prophecy ; the wisdom of the serpent ; the
harmlessness of the dove; abtlity to discern spirits. Grant, also,
what thou hast promised-of the gifts and graces thou hadst for
the performance of thy ministry-to me, for the work thou hast
given me.
The wife ofl\Ir. l\L H. S. died in April, on which
occasion he pronounced a funeral discourse himscl£
\ '
\-~ I _,
\ .~
\ '
104 l!IATTHIAS AND
lly this bereavement his mind became of course'
still more susceptible of striking impressions. In-.
deed, both Mr. Pierson and himself wen')_!)Xac!ly
in a state of mind to look for extraordina:y e~~ts ;
and thus situated, a stranger presented himself be-
fore ther11 on the 5th of May, with the beard of a
patriarch, a tall form, and a peculiar cast of coun-
tenance, who not only entered into all their extrava-
gant notions, or ,.rather took possession of them as
original with himself, but entertained an inexhau~lbLe
fund of kindred extravagances,•which they construed
into new light and wisdom, on the momentous sub-
\ jects that engrossed their contemplations. With
' pr<ltensions sufficiently high to fill their .disordered
imaginations, they at once received him as a being
of surpassing excellence, who was to establish the
personal reign of God the Father (not the Messiah)
upon the earth. This imposing stranger was none
other than RoBERT MATTHF.Ws, or Matthias, as he
proclaimed himself. He declared to them that he
was the Spirit of Truth : that the Spirit of Truth
had disappeared from the earth at the death of the
l\Iatthias mentioned in the New Testament : tha~
~
the Spirit of Jesus Christ had entered into that Mat·
thias, and that he was the same l\!Iatthias, the Apostle
'1/ of the New Testament, who had risen from the
): dead, and possessed the spirit of Jesus of Nazareth.
' \· That _
he (Jesus Christ), at his second appearan~e
•\ ,J was God the Father, and that he (1\iatthi~)_w_!l
\ \hJ.!~eif ~od the ~th~rJ _and had" power to do all
things, to forgive sins, and communicate the Holy
, Ghost to such as believed -in him. He was not,
HIS IMPOSTURES. 105
however, always consistent in regard to the char-
acter and' attributes to which he laid claim. A re-
ligious frien~, who, hearing of the arrival of the
prophet, and the extraordinary proceedings at Pier-
son's house, sought an opportunity of visiting him
there, informs the writer, that he did not exactly
learn from him then that he claimed to be the Deity,
or the Messiah. But he nevertheless declared him-
self, distinctly, to be the angel spoken of in Rev.
xiv. 6, 7. ".llnd I sa1o another angel fly in the
midst of heaven, hat·ing the eve1·lasting Gospel to
preach 1mto them that dwell on the earth, and to
eve1-y nation, and kind!'ed, and longue, and people,
sayin~, with a loud voice, Fem· God, and give glory
to him ; fo!' the how· of his ,judgment is come : and
toorshiJl him that made heaven, and earth, and the
sea, and the fountains of1oate1·s.'' Be all this, how- '
ever, as it may, neither of the gentlemen to whom
he presented himself was in a state of mind then, 1
o
rafterward, to observe discrepancies of this char-
acter; They believed all that he set forth of him-
self, then and subsequently, no matter how extrava-
gant or how blasphemous ; and he in turn recognised
them as the first members of the true church, which,
after two years' search, he had been able certainly
to identify. He announced to them that, although
the kingdom of God on earth began with his public
declaration in Albany in June, 1830, it would not
be completed until twenty-one years from that date,
viz. in 1851 ; previous to which time wars would
be done away, the judgments finished, and the
wicked destroyed. The day of grace was to close
\
,{\
106 liiA TTIIIAS AND
on the first of December, 1836, and all who by that
time should not have come to the true light, or at
least,.who should not have begun to reform before
that period, were to be cut off. Such were the pre-
tensions with which he came before them, and such
the doctrines he poured into their minds and ears ; all
of which, and many more matters equally ridiculous
and absurd, they received with unbounded con-
fidence, and forthwith looked up to him, as to a ce-
lestial being, with veneration and awe. It was in-
deed rendered more plausible to 1\Tr. Pierson, prob-
ably, by the coincidence of dates. Matthews had
been called in June, 1830, and so had he. Mat-
thews began his declaration at Albany on the ninth
of June (we believe) ; he had declared that judg.
men! was proclaimecl at Stillwater on the nineteenth
of June; and he had completed the declaration at
Argyle on the twentieth-the self-same day on
which Pierson had received the commission, " Thou
art Elijah the Tishbite, and thou shalt go before me
in the spirit and power of Elias, to prepare my way
before me.'' He now said, that from the date of that
commission, he had preached that the kingdom of
Heaven was at hand, until the appearance of Mat-
thias. John the Baptist had preached that the
kingdom of Heaven was at hand until the l\Ies-
siah came. Elias, as everybody knows, was only
another name for John the Baptist; and hence he
concluded that the spirit of John the Baptist had
taken up his abode in him, and that he was the fore·
runner of Matthias. The latter was not slow to
favour this deception, and 1\Ir. Pierson was thence·!
HIS n!POSTURES, 107
orward known only among the members of " the
ingdom" as John the Baptist; in which character
e evinced the docility of a child, and the sincerity
fa true disciple.
When .Matthews first visited l\Ir. Pierson's house,
he latter was absent from the city on a short visit.
Irs.*** and her family having previously removed
rom thence, there was only a servant at home, from
vhom the impostor learned the day on which 1\Ir.
ierson would return; so that, probably, he was
ot altogether unprepared for the reception of the
tranger, who was at once received as an inmate of
he establishment. Their time was for a few days
evoted to an interchange of views and opinions
pon the subject of religion, and preaching alter-
ately-l\lr. l\1. H. S. being an attentive and en-
ptured lfstener. Among 1\Ir. Pierson's papers
here are various memoranda of what seem to have
een questions of theological discussion between
em. There are likewise notes of what were
robably the heads of a sermon, or points of doc-
nne, maintained by his new spiritual guide. The
ollowing is a specimen, and may have been a cat-
logue ofthe abominations denounced by the prophet
n the day of its date.
May 9, 1832.
R. MATTHIAS:-
All who say that the Jew• crucified Jesus.
" " that the first day of the week is the Sabbath.
that immersion with tbe clothes on is baptism.
" that.sprinkling is baptism.
preaching to women without their husbands.
who drinketh wine in bowls. •
" who eatcth the Passover in a lower room.
108' !>IATTIIIAS AND
That these memoranda combine the heads of one
of his incongruous discourses, and that those who
practised such things were anathematized, there can
be no question, from the circumstance that they
were frequently the objects of his denunciations af-
terward. At one time he would break out furiously
against all men who wore spectacles, who, he said,
would be damned; at another, he would denounce
bitterly all women who did not keep at home. Like
Sarah of old, he insisted that it was the duty of wo-
men to remain in the tent. All who did not follow
her example would be damned ; and such like
nonsense.
l\fr. Pierson very soon relinquished preaching, as
did 1\lr. M. H. S., and the work of the ministry
devolved alone upon Matthews, who, je!lous of his
dignity, would bear no rivals near his tlirone. He
(Mr. Pierson) suffered his beard and nails to grow
long, in imitation of his new master, and conformed
in all respects to his instructions. The reasons as-
signed for thus cultivating the beard without crop-
ping it, and for allowing the nails of their fingers to
grow uncut, were, that unless they had been good
things, fitting and proper to be worn, men would
have been formed without them : and as God had
formed Adam with a beard, and as the patriarchs I
and Jews, God's chosen people, wore their beards
long, we have no right to cut them off. This
reasoning was conclusive. The houses of both
gentlemen were thrown open to hi~ and their purses
and all their earthly substance placed at his disposal.
Indeed, it w~s one of the fundamental doctrines he
HIS 1111POSTURES•. 109
taught, that the earth, and all that it contained was
his own; and he practised accordingly.
The prophet was now invited to take up his resi-
dence at the elegantly furnished residence of 1\Ir.
1\1. H. S., and acceding to the invitation, he re-
mained with him three months. He would doubt-
less have done so longer, had it not been for what
was to him an untoward circumstance, as will
appear in the sequel. The best apartments in the
house were allotted to his service, and the whole es-
tablishment was submitted to his entire control. It
was not long before he arrogated to himself, and re-
ceived divine honours, and his entertainer washed
his feet in token of his humility. The female rela-
tives of th_e family, who had remained there after the
decease of the lady of the house, were sent away
by the impostor, and he allowed no wom~n to reside
I
there but the black domestics who were of the true
faith. From fasting, he taught his disciples to
change their system to feasting; and having their
:houses at his command, and their purses at his ser-
1
vice ; loving the good things of this world, and
1
taking all the direction in procuring supplies; they
\
fared sumptuously every day. ·
. But this splendid style of living was not enough.
1
T he prophet, as the reader was early told, was vain
of his personal appearance, and proud of wearing
rich clothes. It was now necessary that he should
be arrayed in garments befitting his character, and
the dignity of his mission. His liberal entertainer
therefore, at his suggestion, accompanied him to the
most fashionable drapers and mercers in Broadway,
K
llO MATTHIAS AND
of whom an ample wardrobe was ordered and ob-
tained, made of the richest broad-cloths, and the
finest linens that could be procured-embracing
every variety of garment, and as many of them as
he chose-some of which were made of peculiar
patterns, and worn as canonical costumes of his
own. He displayed fine cambric ruffles around his
. wrists and upon his bosom, and to a rich silken
scarf, interwoven with gold, were suspended twelve
golden tassels, emblematicaJ·of the twelve tribes of
Israel. His fine linen night-caps were wrought with
curious skill of needlework, with the names of the
twelve apostles embroidered thereon. Thus decked
with finery at the expense of his two special disci-
ples, and feasting on the choicest dainties, under
pretext of sacraments, he lived upon, and with them.
Meetings were held alternately at the houses of the
two'gentlemen, where he declaimed in the wild, dis-
jointed, and incoherent manner already described, and
often with considerable energy and effect. In addi-
tion to his own immediate followers, many others
were from time to· time led by curiosity, or other
motives, to attend the meetings, who were as often
shocked by his blasphemies, as amused by his cru-
dities. Some of these occasional auditors received
special invitations from Mr. M. H. S. to attend, and
others were attracted by the notices which be posted
at his place of business and elsewhere, announcing
that Shiloh would preach at his house at a certain
hour; &c. A gentleman who was drawn thither by
curiosity, has furnished the writer with a report ofone
of his desultory harangues, taken down in short-hand
IllS IJIIPOSTURES. Ill
at the time. Being brief, it is here inserted. It
will be seen by a remark in the discourse, that the
cholera was then prevailing in New-York.
"The spirit that built the Tower of Babel is now
in the world-it is the spirit of the devil. The
spirit of man never goes upon the clouds-all who
think so are Babylonians. The only heaven is on
the earth. All who are ignorant of truth, are Nin-
evites. The Jews did not crucify Christ,-it was , .
the Gentiles. Every Jew has his guardian angel 'f''
attendin~r him in this world. God don't sueak '"\ ,
~ - = . ""
through preachers, he speaks through me, Ills ·(, ·~ · ,
p[.Ophet. I '( ~\
"John the Baptist,'' (addressing l\Jr. Pierson),
"read the tenth chapter of Revelations." A:fter the
reading of tt.e chapter, the prophet resumed speak-
ing, as follows :-
" Ours is the mustard-seed kingdom which is to
pread all over the earth. Our creed is truth, and
o man can find truth unless he obeys John the
aptist, and comes clean into the church.
"All real men will be ~aved; all mock men will
e damned. When a person has the Holy Ghost,
hen he is a man, and not till then. They who
each women are of the wicked. The communion
s all nonsense : so is prayer. Eating a nip of
read and drinking a little wine won't do any good.
II who admit members into their church and suffer
em to hold their lands and houses·-their sentence
s, • Depart ye wicked, I know you not.' All fe-
ales who lecture their husbands, their sentence i3
112 MATTll!AS AND
the same. The sons of truth are to enjoy all the
good things of this world, and must use their means
I
to bring it about. Every thing that has the smell
"' of woman will be destroyed. Woman is the cap-
'l • 1 sheaf of the abomination of desolation-full of all
_,' ' , deviltry. In a short time the world will take fire
and dissolve-it is combustible already. All wo-
men, not obedient, had better become so as soon as
possible, and let the wicked spirit depart, and be-
come temples of truth. Praying is all mocking.
·when you see any one wring the neck of a fowl,
instead of cutting off its head, he has not got the
Holy Ghost.
" All who eat swine's flesh are of the devil ; and
just as certain as he eats it, he will tell a lie in less
than half an hour. If you eat a piece of pork, it
will go crooked through you, and the Holy Ghost
will not stay in you, but one or the other must leave
the house pretty soon. The pork will be as crooked
in you as rams' horns, and as great a nuisance as
the hogs in the street. ·
" The cholera is not the right word ; it is choler,
which means God's wrath. Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob are now in this world: they did not go up in
the clouds as some believe : why should they go
there 1 They don't want to go there to box the
/' compass from one place to another. The Ch.ri~tians
" t ,, no~v-a:.d'!JS are for..setting up the Son's kingdom.
<1
• / / It is not his; it is the Father's kingdom. It puts
•' ~(I me in mind of the man in the country who took his
.~ 1 son in business, and had his sign made •Hitchcock
!' & Son,' but the son wanted it ' Hitchcock & Father,' ,
JIIS UIPO,STURES. 113
and that is the way with your Christians They
talk of the Son's kingdom first, and not the Father's
kingdom."
How men of education and intelligence, as the
two principals of his devotees unquestionably were,
could be carried away by the utterer of such far-
ragas of nonsense, is inconceivable. If monomania
be a curable disease, one would suppose that such
an oration would be a sovereign remedy. But the
eccentricities of the human mind-who can trace
or understand them !
llut although the impostor had, to a still farther
degree, unsettled the mind of 1\Ir. Pierson, he had
not yet erased from his memory the recollection of
his beloved Sarah, or banished the idea that she
was to be restored to him again. The following
extracts, however, show that his reason was becom-
ing daily more disordered and wandering :-
Sunday, J une 24, 1832. Second anniversary of the morning
when I went to Sarah's bedside, and in the name of the Lord,
birl her arise and walk.
She gave me her hanrl, aro-e from the bed, and walked round
the room, and laid down again.
It. appeared to me that this was a pledge of her future resur·
reC'tiOn.
While meditating on this subject, the union God has estab·
lished between man and wife was brought to view as being one·
flesh. Sarah's spirit was with me. It appeared as if we were
remarried. She called me Lord. Several remarkable U1ings
occurred.
Supvose I felt as a husband ought, in point of office. She
said, l have peace, my- Lord. Again, thou hast power, and this
shall be a sign unto you that these things wPre real. It was
according to her word. These things appeared real, except
bodily presence.
K2
114 !ItATTHJAS AND
June 29, 1832. The second anniversary of Sarah's death.
In answer to prayers that God would to.Uay take this matter
into consideration :
This is my counsel, saith the Lord; Sarah must be raised
up in the body, and be restored to the kingdom of God.
The spirit of Abraham says, I can do nothing without Sarah.
I must have Sarah. :Sarah says, deliver me, husband-the time
is come.
This is my counsel, saith the Lord God of Elijah. Write no
more. This is my covenant with thee, saith the Lord, in the
appointed time it shall be done.
• It was said, in the third year it shall be.
John the Baptist is risen in thee, and will direct thee in ihings
pertaining to his office. These promises are all sealed to thee.
Thus saith the Lord.
Sunday, July I, 1832. Anniversary of Sarah's burial.
Prayed to the Lord that the grave might no longer have
power to hold her body.
The Lord said, " I have promised that Sarah should be raised
up, o.pd of her own body bear thee a son to be called James.
This shall be done at the appointed time.''
Asked Sarah, Where art thou?
Answer. In the grave, waiting to be delivered. Abraham,
where art thou 1 At Sarah's grave, waiting for herdeliverance.
I can do nothing without her. It was said all things must be
done according to God's appointment.
This is the last mention the writer has been able
to find among the papers of 1\Ir. Pierson of his wife, .
whom he so dearly loved, and to whose memory he
so fondly clung. It is well known, however, that I
he had latterly imbibed the singular idea, probably 1
after all hope of h~r resurrection had vanished, that I
he was the spiritual husband of another-a lady who
had been one of the Bowery Hill association. His
later belief was, that after the decease of Mrs. Pier-
son, her spirit had entered into the body of the lady
referred to. It is not known how, or exactly when,
this strange conceit originated; but it is not moro
JIIS IMPOSTURES. 115
surprising than many other features of his melancholy
hallucination. Among his loose papers, however,
are two anonymous notes, in the handwriting of a
female, which, taken in connection with a cirCIUll·
stance or two that will presently be related, render
it at least possible, that there may have been an
artful conspiracy at the bottom of this particular in-
lance of delusion. Mrs. Pierson, it will be recol-
ected, died on the 29th of June, 1830. The foi-
l
owing note is endorsed in l\Ir. Pierson's hand-
vriting-" Received July 20, 1830." And here it
ust be borne in mind, that, connected with the idea
hat his wife would be raised from the dead and
estored to him on earth, was the farther belief that
he would bear him a son, to be called "James.''
his was one of the promises which he had received
r~m God, and which he has recorded as the answer
o his prayers, in perhaps fifty places. The first
ote is as follows :-
"When my cousin -was engaged in prayer a few days
go with Katy, I saw a vision which I was directed to write and
end to you. I was lost a few minutes, when I beheld my
ousin walk into your back-door with the dress which she usually
•ears. She passed through 'ihe entry, and went into the par-
ur. The d1ff'erence in her state was, that she was hig with
hild; and I thought in the vision that she was at home* in your
ouse. I knew not the meaning of it, but was constrained to
nd it to you. Perhaps the Lord will show you the interpret-
lion. 111 v cousin told me some time ago that the Lord had
romised f10r a son. I never realised that it would be so until I
w the vision."
The second note, in the same handwriting, and
ttached to the first by a wafer by 1\Ir. Pierson him-
• Italicized in the original.
116 &IATTHIAS AND
self, with the memorandum, "Received 27th July,
1830," is as follows :-
"1 thought, sir, that an apology was due to you for the ab-
rupt note I handed you. I have felt quite uneasy about it, and
w1shed to say to you, that after I had the vision, I thought I
must write it; and thought I had better tell it to/ou than
cousin, as I know she has a remarkably pure mind; an I judged
tttat if she suspected that I let you know (it], it would make her
feel very unpleasant. I have taken up a cross in making it
known to you : if I have done wrong, be kind enough to for-
give me."
It so happens that there was a very remarkable
counterpart to this vision of the writer of these notes.
The lady possibly referred to, had a vision on a cer-
tain night--she being at a distance from the city at1
the time-in which it was revealed to her, that she
was the spiritual wife of Mr. Pierson. And she be!
lieved that such was the record in heaven. This
conviction was moreover strengthened by anotHer
circumstance. On one occasion, her husband being
absent, she prayed very fervently that the first person
who entered her door, might be him. It happened
shortly afterward, and before any other person came
in, that Mr. Pierson made his appearance; and the·
good lady at once concluded, that although it ha~
been written otherwis!l on earth, yet, in the records
of heaven, Mr. Pierson and herself were one.
Subsequently, on comparing notes with Mr. Pierson,
no doubt was left of the faci; since it appeared that
on the self-same night, he had had a similar dream
in his own house. On disc.overing the coincidence
they joined hands, and walking into another apart-
ment, where a third person was sitting, presented
•
IllS !~!POSTURES. 117
themselves, andmutually declared themselves to be,
spiritually, man and wife. ·whether there was, or
was not, any connection between the mysterious
notes which have been quoted, and this singular in-
cident of the delusion, is left for the reader to deter-
mine.
For the purpose of showing what was the state
of mind of one of the gentlemen connected with
IPierson and Matthews, at the time of which we are
now writing, the following letters are inserted.
They were addressed to l\Ir. Pierson while on a
visit to his friends in l\Iorris county (N. J.) The
name of the writer is suppressed :-
"New-York, 20th July, 1832.
"JoHN THE BAPTisT, or DEAR PIERSON:
"I have your letter, and am glad to hear that you are well.
Tbe angels of destruction are making dreadful havoc, but do
not be troubled; they are reaping the tares. The harvest is
begun, ancl not a single blade of wheat can fall or be injured.
11 Katy is well, and at the ' Lord's house' often.
"Isabella is also well.
" Matthias is still • • • • • •, thank Gcd! and I think we can
no longer say, 1
when he, the Spirit of truth, is come,' &c.
Surely this is •the Kingdom of Gcd.'
"The money you •P.?ke of I can usc, if you choose to send it,
and on your return wtll place it in a satisfactory shape. I will
venture tu send you the love of all 'the kingdom.'
Yours, sincerely.
•
" j'liew-York, 21th July, 1832.
" DEAR PIERSON,
"I have your letter, containing twenty-six hundred dollars,
which is placed to your credit until I sec you.
"You speak of a long letter, but as I have so rriuch to say,
that a long letter would be only a beginning; I must wait until
we meet. Thanks to the ble.ssed God, we are as strong as
brass, and all in perfect health and without any fe.ar; for the
eternal God is our refuge; it can be nothing else that can give
118 »IATTHIAS AND
such courage. Can't you contrive to make the 22d of next
month come sooner than that ?-John the Baptist must be in
his place before we can move.
" Yours, sincerely.
"The kingdom-the•kingdom-the kingdom-and nothing
but the kingdom of Gon."
There is yet another chapter to follow, before the
scene changes to Singsing.
InS IMPOSTURES. 119
CHAPTER VI.
Luxurious Habits of Matthews-Description of his Person and
Costume-Efforts to attract Observation-Interesting and
Remarkable Interview between a Gentleman and Matthews,
Pierson, and M. H. S.-Ciaims to a Divine Character-Speci-
men of his Preaching-Close of the Interview-Visit of an·
other Gentleman to the house of M. H. S.-Another of the
Prophet's Lectures-Attempt of one of Pierson's Friends to
Rescue him from the Delusion-:.leets with the Prophet-
The Interview-His Preaching-Visit abruptly terminated-
The Kew Jerusalem-Strange CoJ1duct of a Gentleman in
having his Plate cre•ted with Lions-Arrest of the Prophet
and one of his Disciple•, on the ground of Insanity-The Im-
postor is sham of his Beard-Strange Fancies of M. H. S. at
Bloomingdale-Pierson takes a house for Matthews-Manner
of passing the Winter-The Establishment broken up in the
Spring-~uspected Quarrel-Matthews takes Board at a
Hotel-His Conduct there-Pierson's Conversations with the
Spirit.
IF, as we have seen, Matthews was fond of dress,
vain show, and luxury within doors, he was equally
pleased with its display, even to ostentation, without.
His two chief disciples having ample means, he in-
duced them to set up elegant carriages for his ac-
commodation; and there was seldom a fine day in
the summer of 1832, upon which he did not display
his beard, his costume, and his carriage in Broad-
way-accompanied frequently by l\lr. Pierson and
his two children, or by the other gentleman of whom
we have spoken at large in the preceding chapter.
120 niATTHIAS AND
When not rolling in his landau, he was frequently in
the street, particularly during the hours of fashion-
able promenading-dropping in occasionally at the
bookstores, and sometimes venturing into an office
of resort in Wall-street, always preaching and ex-
horting in the same rambling and incoherent manner,
already so often described-often with shrewdness
and momentary energy-and never better pleased
than to find himself the observed of all observers.
On bright afternoons, when the Battery was sure
to be thronged by fashionable loungers, seeking to
kill an idle hour, and by hundreds of people desirous
of inhaling the invigorating breezes from the ocean,
l\'latthews was in the frequent practice of exhibiting
himself to the multitude, though not exactly mingling
in the throng. Selecting well his hour for attracting
the greatest share of attention, he would arrive at
the Battery-gate in a superb dark carriage, drawn
by a noble pair of horses, and accompanied by l\'lr.
Pierson and h~s children. Descending from the
carriage with dignity and deliberation, he would take
the children by the hand at either side, and thus,
with stately and measured tread, walk to and fro
upon the lawn, :M:r. Pierson in constant and rever-,
entia! attendance, for an hour or more-until, having,
as he supposed, made a sufficient exhibition of his
person, he would retire with the gravity with which
he came-making far less impression, probablY,
upon the multitude than he fancied or desired. · I
In person he is tail and well-made, although very
thin-what is sometimes, and very aptly, called
"bony.'' His height is about five feet ten or eleven
HIS 1:\IPOSTURES. 121
inches, and his frame well-proportioned, although
his gait is somewhat awkward, and his movements
ungraceful. His walk was always slow, and not
wanting in stateliness, or at least that assumption
of it which is to be obtained by deliberation, an
erect carriage, and a careful avoidance of all hurry
or precipitation. His face is 8harp-complexion
sallow-eyes of a cold light gray-and hair and
beard long, thick, coarse, and of a peculiar hue,
which is better expressed, perhaps, by the word
ashy, than any other. They ha\·e originally been
of a dark brown, but are now profusely sprinkled
with silver-gray-the union forming that singular
mixture we have attempted to describe. He always
wore his hair long, and parted in waving masses
upon each ~ide of his head, leaving a well-defined
line of separation running longitudinally along the
top of his cranium. His beard, equally coarse with
his hair, and still more inclined to curl, was thick
and bushy, and covered his breast to the depth of
eight or ten inches below the neck. He also wore
thick mustaches on the upper lip, and tnese, being
of great length, united so completely with the beard
on either side, as almost entirely to conceal his
mouth. The coarseness of his hair and beard not
being discernible at a short distance, from the great
care with which they were kept, and the profusion of
ringlets clustering over his shoulders, they were es-
teemed very beautiful. \Vhen conversing, or sitting,
as he often would, silent and in apparent meditation,
he was in the almost constant habit of cherishing his
beard and mustaches-smoothing them down with
L
122 lilATTIIIAS AND
his long slender fingers, and seeming to take great
delight in feeling them. The predominant expres-
sion of his countenance is a cold severity ; but with
this there is mingled great shrewdness of aspect·
and, very often, an air of deep abstraction.
His most usual costume while exhibiting himself
in the streets of New-York, or upon the Battery, as
\
we have described, was a black cap of japanned
leather, in shape like an inverted cone, with a shade ;
!\ • • a frock-coat, generally of fine green cloth, lined
~ • '
1
with white or pink satin ; a vest, commonly of richly
)• Ifigured silk ; a sash of crimson silk around his
,\.t . ; 1
waist; green or black pantaloons, sometimes with
\\ 1 sandals, and at others Wellington boots (always
'- t highly polished), and worn outside of the pantaloons;
with a black stock around his neck. As we have
already remarked, he was evidently very fond of
rich and showy dresses, and seldom appeared two
days in succession in the same apparel. Some of
his coats were richly decorated with braid, and frogs,
and costly buttons; but in shape thf'y were always
the same, at least, so far as the observation of the
writer has extended, being the kind indifferently
called frock, or Wellington. Altogether, his ap-
pearance was striking and calculated to attract no-
tice, but not remarkably imposing.
It was during the same season-the summer of
1832-while residing with 1\Ir. lH. H. S., though
spending a good portion of his time, as we have
seen, with 1\Ir. Pierson, that a remarkable interview
took place between Matthias and his two chief dis-
ciples and another gentleman, which is not only in-
HIS niPOSTURES. 123
teresting in itself, but will serve strikingly to illus-
trate the state of mind under which at least two of
the parties were labouring. The gentleman re-
ferred to has great strength and precision of memory,
and the narrative has been carefully taken by the
writer from his own lips. For the purpose of pre-
serving the scene in a dramatic form, the gentleman
referred to will be called Hervey. It is as follows:--
One morning in the summer referred to, 1\Ir. 1\I.
H. S. called upon 1\Ir. Hervey, and inquired whether
he would attend a meeting at his house, in - - -
street, at half-past three o'clock that afternoon. He
added that he had the privilege of entertaining under
his roof, the most extraordinary man that ever set
his foot upon this earth.
.!111·. Hervey. You do not presume to say that he
was a greater man, or a greater being, than the
Lord Jesus Christ, surely 1
.J\1. II. S. Sir, it is Shiloh himself: He who
was, and is, and is to come.
.!111·. Ilel"Vey. Sir, you will excuse me from attend-
ing a meeting where such a being as you represent
is to officiate.
•!U. II. S. But I am extremely desirous that you
should hear the words of wisdom which continually
flow from the lips of this extraordinary personage.
•iUr. Ilervey. \Veil, since you are so desirous
that I should see him, in order to gratify you I will
call upon you after the meeting shall be over, if you
will name the hour.
.!If. IT. S. At about five o'clock, sir.
And here the morning interview terminated. At
124 )!ATTHIAS AND
the hour designated, the gentleman presented him-
self at the house of the merchant who had been so
desirous of procuring an interview, where he was
cordially received, and conducted into the front
parlour. Judging from the number of benches,
chairs, and other seats in the apartment, it appeared
as though ther~ had been a meeting of considerable
magnitude. They had all retired, however, with
the exception of one person-an individual who was
sitting in one corner of the room, in the most humble,
meek, and docile attitude that can be imagined.
His beard was bristling out about an inch long, and
his hair-like his beard, black as jet-was parted
over his forehead, after the manner of the pictures
of the l\Iessiah. The following dialogue ensued :-
.Afr. Heney. Is that the gentleman to whom you
alluded as being the Shiloh 1
.111. ll. S. Oh no, sir ! This is John the Bap-
tist.
John the Raptist. Who is not worthy to unloose
even the shoe-latches of the one who is up-stairs.
On approaching yet nearer to this grotesque and
demure-loolling gentleman, and scrutinizing him
closely, t.he dialogue was continued.
Jlfr. Hel'Vey. Why, you are my old friend Pier-
son, whom I have met abroad. Sun,ly (surveying
him yet more closely) you are Elijah Pierson;
nothing more or less. And do you presume to say
that you are the veritable John the Baptist 1 Surely
you do not pretend to say that this head upon your
shoulders (laying his hand ~pon his head), is the
HIS IMPOSTURES. 125
very identical head that was taken off by Herod, and
brought to his daughter in a charger?
J\[. H. S. The very same.
•1'1!1·. Pie1·son. No : I do not mean to be under-
stood as saying that this head of mine is the very
same head that was cut from the body of John the
Baptist; but I mean to say, that the spirit of Elijah
Pierson, leaving this tabernacle (significantly point-
ing to his heart), the spirit of Elijah the Prophet
thereupon entered, and abode for awhile ;-and that
now the spirit of John the Baptist has taken the
place of that of Elijah. And therefore I may justly
be considered, and am, in fact, and to all intents and
purposes, John the Baptist.
Here a somewhat general conversation ensued-
l\Ir. Hervey urging 11pon the deluded man the ab-
surdity of his conduct and pretensions. Among
other matters, l\Ir. Hervey inquired why he dis-
figured himself by suffering his beard to grow thus.
J\Ir. Pierson. Jesus Christ wore a long beard
when upon earth, and we are commanded to follow
his example in all things.
After pursuing the conversation for some minutes,
1\Ir. Hervey, turning to l\Ir. l\1. H. S., inquired:-
"Do you really pretend to say that you have under
this roof a being who styles himself Shiloh 1''
J\1. H. S. The very self-same being, sir, and
who has told me all things that ever I did. But
you shall see and judge for yourself, sir.
Saying which, he left the apartment and ascended
the stairs in the hall. Returning presently, he
said:-
L2
126 111ATTHIAS AND
"Prepare yourself to receive him who was the
first and the last-the great I AM !"
A noise of footsteps m01·ing slowly across the
floor above was now heard, from whence the sounds
descended the stairs, and some person entered the
back parlour, communicating with the front by fold-
ing-doors.
.i\'I. H. S. Let us rise, and prepare for his re-
ception.
No sooner said than done : and the folding-doors
being at the same instant thrown open by a servant
stationed on the other side for that purpose, behold,
there stood a being of whose appearance some idea
may pPrhaps be formed from the description already
attempted to be given. "Figure to yourself," says
1\Ir. Hervey, "a fu]].sized man, with a full head of
hair, parted over the top, and falling down in cluster-
ing curls over his shoulders ; a long beard, extend-
ing down his breast, midway of his body, and cov-
ering nearly the whole of his face to the eyes, which
were small and sunken, but sharp and piercing."
He had on a bottle.green frock-coat of the finest
quality; white pantaloons and waistcoat; with a
broad crimson sash, richly inwrought with gold,
around his body. To this were suspended the
twelve golden tassels already described, and he
wore ruffles around his wrists. This singular figuu
approached with a very slow and majestic step, and
proffered his hand to the stranger, but from which
the latter withdrew, saying:-
"No, sir; excuse me, if you please. If you
IllS li\IPOSTURES. 127
are what you pretend to be, I am certainly not
worthy to !alee you by the hand-"
.711. II. S. Bravo! (flying into his embrace and
kissing him.)
.l\Ir. Ile1'vey. But stop: I had not finished my
sentence. If you arc not what you pretend to be,
sir, then you are not worthy to take me by the
hand.
At this turn of the period, there was some confu-
sion. John the Baptist kept his seat with the most
imperturbable composure, but 1\I. H. S. uttered
some ejaculations of surprise at the indignity with
which his Shiloh was treated, that are not retained.
T he prophet drew himself up with dignity, and
frowned for an instant as he supposed with terror.
Presently, however, the gathering storm passed
away, and Shiloh, l\I. II. S., and .!Hr. Hervey seated
themselves together upon the sofa-upon which lay
an open Bible.
l.Hr. Hervey commenced a conversation by put-
ting a question to him touching his pretensions, and
desiring to know whether they were willing to enter
into a discussion as to the truth of his assumptions
-adding, that he knew of no other standard of
truth, than that blessed volume (pointing to the
Bible).
The Prophet. In my presence there is no other
speaker than myself; and if a plurality of speakers
is necessary, I shall at once leave the room.
Mr. Ile1"Vey. I have come here for discussion,
rather than for info.rmation. 1\ly religious principles
l 2H M A'I"I'III AS AN I>
111'11 fixo •tl ; nuol 111y t:oilh, uuolall "'Y'"'l"'H of l'ufuro
1mlvnliou, 1110 oloHil'l•d li·olo litlll ~'"'" '" volllloo,
.Ill. 11. 8, Tltt• J.,.iu~o: iu wlooMo l"'''"''ltt'tt yon nrn
wn~ 1".""''111
. wlu·u lhut Biltln 11'11>1 1tuul11 ; 111' o:oor~o
it IIIIIH
f !111 lllilt'll fo>l' 1-:l'lllti.l'd 111111. ito llluio•n<IIUUIH iiH
dcwlrilttlH l>ollc·r lltnll nuy ,,j' 11>1 do.
fo'iudutl(• howc·vc·r, Vt·ry """"• lhnl lltt·rt• WIIH fo l>u
Jl() rliiii'IIHHiou, 111111 diiWIIVI'I'illg, hy ll'jll'lllc·cl IIIII'IIIJ'lH,
IIJ111 il \1'1111 11iJ1111HI illljiiiHHiJ.Jo Ill IJ.I'l ill II word o · d~o:o•
Wi~c·, yl'! tlc·Hii'IIIIH oi' ill'lll'iltg Hlllltt• lloill~ i'rt>lll ti111
onu:l<•, 1\lr, I fo•rvoy I'Hotlo·nlt•d hilltHoM to l'l'lltnillli>r
II Hhorl 1i1110 II H
lic->tl iiH
II'III'I',
Tho pruphl'l llll'n·ttpou !...gnu 11 oliHI'IIHHilllt, pour-
iJtg f'otllo II liHHIIIl of gro•lllc•l'llhHIII'I)ilio•H 1111111 1'1111 1\'c•il
ho t'lllll'<'iVc·<l- loill),(i<-d wilh H
htll'lliug ld11H
(>I11·1uio•H.
'l'hror11 wo•ro•, lo hn H
ill'<', "''''IIHioJtnlly, quolulioiiHfi·o111
llo11 ~•·1 ip1t11·o·H, lito (lid To·HIIIIII"Jtl iu p11r1io·.11i11r, 1111d
t:loi..tly l'rou1 lito wdliug>~ of' 1\loH
o
•H, iiiii'Jtlly o·ilo•ol iu
H
IIJ'I""I ol' loiH prl'lo·IIHiottH, 1111d Hllllll'liiiii'H nclruilly,
Jlol 1111'1'11 W
IIH H
ll IIIIU:IJ (> f wio•Ju•ohtt•HH II Itt) IIIIIIH
I'IJHil
111ixo·cl "I' in hi.• ltanlltgou•,- willt 111111' 11111lllll'll 11 fi >w
grnioH ol' "''IIHII 111111111g loiHo
·rudi1io11 thnl. J\tr. I I1'1'·
v,.y'H pnli••IJI'II '"'''II IIIII o•xloaiiHio·ol. Tho wholo J'lll'•
fitrlllllltt:o IVIIH oJiHgiiHiillg li'lllll iiH ('l'llfitllily, 111111 lhll
iglllll'lllll'll of Iloll lllljll>H
iol', IIIIIWiiiiH
IIIIII)iltg IJj>l fiuuj).
inrity willt lh11 lnttgiiiiJ::II ol' ,'4niph1ro', Inn oliMgiiN iiu~
iottlo•c•ol, fi11· l'lll'l'lilioJI, ()Jill or two of hiH IIH~I'rlinrtH
will '"' o
·ito•cl li>t' flXIIIIIj>lo•H. For iuNIIIIIel', 1111 oln-
o
:lnn•ol thul "" lh•• lith ol' .July, IH:lli, liuu>H
houlcl ho
1111 111411'11 ; tlml th11 '' "ll~llllllltnlioll 111' ull lhiug" wo11ld
lnlw phll'll; lhnt. till' (:o•ulilo•H wnlll<lulllw '"'"""'''•
1111<1 llllllfl b11J 1)11• ,11'1\'N )J(! H
IIV<•cJ.
IIIII I ~\ I'OW
r llll ltl!, 1:.!!1
.11/r /hrury. llul how i~ tl111tl II' H
01 niUI H
ilda
IH to ho thn li1tn of ull thn UJ•niiii'H, nur fi'ii'IHINJ\1.
JJ. H. uud J'i,•rM
on, hNI', 1\rll 11fkr nil to lw lhliiiiii'U I
.ill. II. S, Oh I hut I 11111 n .low I
.llf1·. llrl'l•ry. A .l.,w I how i ~ tlmt 'l
'1'/u· I'I'"Jilu·l. \\' hy, ,.,.,.,,rul ~ PIII'I'nf inliM Hil11:1•,
11110 ol' lu ~ llllf'fiHtorH""'ni•·d 11 .1 < ' ll'ltl4~ , 1111d hn hn•
th!•n·l;ll'll 14111lk ioJ1t,l<•wi.Hh hlnnd l'llllllilll-( in hiNv•·i1111
lo MVI' hi111•
.Ill. II. 8. A111l IIH to l'i1·rM
o11, IIH you enII him,
you f;•rgl'l thnt hn iH .lohu tl"' lluptiH
t, nud i'l tlwn•-
Jimt lt.lt•wot' <'11111'1411.
Tlw nrutiou lmvill;!; 111'1
'11 thuHintl·rrupf<·ll, wnHnot
rlll'llllriiHI ; hut, during itHtllf l'rllllf!ll1 hoth tho III>H
t 111111
l'ii'I'MOII "''''""'" to ''' iul< i11 nv..ry won! ol' it, with
OH IUUI'h I'II;!;<
'I'III'AI4 IIH thollglr lhfl illllli•H
toi'1
H lipN
l111d rMIIy '"'''" t<
Hwlwd wilh 1h11 liv1
• •~' ·nl fror11 thu
nltnr ; IIH though lriH irwolll'rt'IIL mviiii-(H Wl'l'll in
truth thn wnn!.1 of 111111'11 thn11 111ortnl twrgllt~ , lu-
dt•<'<l, it WIIHlfrn I'IIH
tlllll oi' lllf•Hil JWII lliH
I!IftinMf.o H
il
hour "I""' hour, nnd tluy ntlt•r tl11y, grt:t.ing with rnp-
luro 1111 tlrn ~ollltl< •ru•u•:n of thnu· prnplwl, •uuii'IJIIin~
UVI'I'Y H
t'IIJt!lll'll ho Ultl'l'l'tf IIHll H
IVt'l•l 11111rH11I lllldt•r
tlu·ir lnugur1
H. Ouo of' tl111111 W1t11ltl lliHH 111~ fi•l'l iu
tol11·11 .,f I'IIVIlrllllf!ll urul hu1nility.* " I •""k thorn I"
• WuHiduK lh, pr•1plu•I'M fiH•t, nnd u l o~~o t'nc•h tllll•'t'•, hy ld-"
fitlloWI'P1
11 1 WRIII C
'OI IIIIIIIll l1111ni1H' tl n•trl. 'l 'llfl tiJIIOWIIIH f11llrlmt
\1p011 Ihilt lt iii.J!IC' ( ltrf1 fr111n J'lf' INIIII
1
1t dtu ry ·-
ftllll/ r.rJ., IM:I'.!. \VniiiU'C' It !\l.ll thlfllll'• fll11l
Mm lllr/,, Wn•h"•l Mwhn•·l ll . II '• h•l'l
/),.,., l!,th, ""'"''Ht. 'l'hn l,urd chrnc•l•''' run ,., hnVI~ JriV f1t41
t
wu ~r~ht•tl. M~''- H nud l•uh••l h1 nl•u Wtuclu1
d C
'llfll ulliN'•·
130 lilA TTlllAS AND
said S. to a friend at his house, one day; " did yot
notice the hair:upon his upper lip, how it looks lik~
a lion ! I tell you sir, he is a lion-he is the lion oj
the tribe of Judah !"
It was now past six o'clock; and it was moreove1
a day on which the twelve apostles were to partake
of their love-feast-for which purpose the table was
now spreading in another apartment. l\fr. Hervey
was invited to remain and partake-l\Ir. I\1. H. S.
assuring him that he should positively sup with the
twelve Apostles. But the invitation was declined.
Having seen and heard enough to satisfy his curi-
osity, l\Ir. Hervey then took his departure-adding,
emphatically, in conclusion-" that by such pro-
ceedings, they were assuming responsibilities whic~
he would not bear for worlds." He recommende1
them to search the Scriptures ; for therein they
would find that there is no other name under heaven;
given among men, whereby they can be saved, but
the name of Jesus; and he hoped, that, one and
all, they would yet be brought to a saving knowledgE
of the truth as it is in Him. He then departed.
resolving within himself, as soon as an opportunity~
should offer, to \l'arn these deluded men to be OD
their guard against the arts and designs of thi!l
wicked impostor. Events, however, soon con·
spired to prevent such another interview with Mr.
Pierson and his companion in the delusion, ash~
desired to procure ; and his purpose was frustrated.~
After this was done, prayed with them, and ate supper, breakin!
the bread. It was a very solemn time, and the Lord was there
The Lord gave good promises respecting 1\frs. B- and !sa
bella.
IllS 1;\IPOSTURES. 131
Another gentleman, who dined several times with
I
the disciple of 1\Iatlhews, at whose house the scene
just described took place in company with the
prophet, and whose lectures he also attended at the
same place on two or three occasions, has furnished
the writer with a few particulars. At the time of
his first invitation, he was not apprized that he was
to meet any extraordinary personage. But on his
arrival at the house of his friend, he was gently ad-
monished thus : " Vou will not be afraid of a long
beard, I trust.''-" 0~ no, not at all," replied the
gentleman. " But why do you make such a re-
mark?" He replied, in substance, that the Almighty
was undPr his roof, and that he was to dine with
him. The guest being aware that his host had been
labouring under strong and peculiar religious ex-
citement, turned the remark by ~aying that he should
be glad to see him, or words equivalent.
The gentleman referred to inf(Jrms the writer that
the discourses which he heard were delivered with
not a little pathos, to some fifty or sixty persons,
male and female, and that at times he displayed
considerable ingenuity. Upon one occasion, he
enumerated about a dozen classes of persons, against
whom, he said, the same denunciation would be
pronounced at the day ofjttdgment. One of which
was merchant tailors, who hired women at four shil-
lings a week: the denunciation would be, "Depa1·t
from me ye toorkers of iniquity, I know you not.''
This was repeated in a stentorian voice, at the naming
of each class. In the same discourse, he said, that
132 niATTIIIAS AND
whosoever offended John the Baptist, (pointing to
1\Ir. Pierson and calling him by name), or my beloved
son (pointing to the gentleman of the house, and
naming him), I pronounce a curse upon him, and it
will take effect : but whoever applies, in good faith
and sincerity of heart, to John the Baptist, he will
hand him over to me, and I will insm·e him a seat
in heaven.
"Upo~;~ these occasions,'' adds the gentleman,,
" the prophet was decorated with a superb palla or
robe, from different parts of which were suspended
twelve large silk tassels, said to be intended to
typify the twelve tribes of Israel. l-Ie was begirded
round the waist with the elegant red silk sash here-
tofore spoken of. These, with a reverential flowing
beard, from six to eight inches in length, such as
the ancient saints used to wear,.gave him a very
imposing appearance. At table he was served with
a silver goblet, while the rest of the company were
furnished with common glass tumblers. Nothing.
however, was drunk at dinner but water. h
short, the whole affair was conducted with decorum.
and well calculated to impress upon the minds of
the ignorant and superstitious the reality of the char.
acter assumed by the principal actor in the farce.''-
1-Iaving heard much of the increasing extrava.
gances of his unhappy friend, and of his recent con.
nection with a man believed universally to be E
base impostor, 1\ir. Pierson's former pastor re·
solved upon one more effort to visit, and, if possible
to reclaim him. He repaired to his house, there.
fore, with great anxiety. On his entrance, his sur·
IllS !~!POSTURES. 133
prise and astonishment were unbounded at behold-
ing him. When he had lust seen him, from long
and frequent fastings, he had become almost wasted
to a skeleton ; but the appearance of his person
now betokened any thing rather than abstemiousness
in diet. His beard, which was coal-black, now
almost covered his face, and his eye had acquired
an uncommon lustre, a piercing and almost start-
ling fierceness of expression, as it flashed through
his raven locks. His prophet, 1\latthias, was with him
at the time, with a yet much longer beard, and
dressed in his pontifical robes, as heretofore des-
cribed. There was likewise ano:i1er gentleman pre-
sent, on a visit of curiosity to the extraordinary pair.
After a pause of a fe\v moments, the prophet
broke silence by speaking, as though in continua-
tion of a discourse. lie spoke without meth()d,
-raved against all denominations of Christians,-
declaring that the kingdom he was preaching, and
which had now commenced, would continue and in-
crease, until, like Aaron's rod, it should have swal-
lowed up all other sects and kindreds. He pro-
ceeded in an attempt to explain his system, which
was crude and unintelligible. He maintained not
only that the earth was to be renovated, but that the
spirits of the Apostles and patriarchs were to reani-
mate other bodies. At present, he and John the
Baptist (Pierson), were obliged to fill a variety of
offices : but in a short time men would arise to oc-
cupy the different posts, so that there should again
be twelve apostles, and twelve patriarchs, and other
functionaries answering to the early ages of the
l\I
134 AIATTHIAS AND
church. This era was to be the first resurrection.
He commented with satisfaction upon the rail-roads
projected and in progress, as preparing the way of
the Lord, regretting, however, that they were not
more continuous and rt>gular in their courses. At
that time the sea was to be converted into dry land ;
people were not to dwell in cities, but would live, as
it were, in palaces scattered over the land, riding in
elegant carriages, and dressing and living in wealth
and splendour. He denounced baptism by sprink-
ling, declaring moreover that immersion was no •
i baptism, as the rite was practised, because people
\ were baptized with their clothes on.
Among other of his vagaries, he declared that he
had received in a vision the plan of architecture for
, ( the New Jerusalem, which he was commissioned to
build, and which, for the magnificence and beauty
of its structure-for its extent and grandeur-would
excel all that was known of the Greeks and Ro-
mans. The site of this great capital of the kingdom,
was to be in the western part of New-York. The
bed of the ocean was to yield up its long-concealed
treasures for his use. All the vessels, tools, and
implements of this New Jerusalem, were to be of
massive silver and pure gold. In the midst of the
city was to stand an immense temple, in comparison 1
with which that of Solomon could not be named ;
and this principal temple was to be surrounded by
several smaller ones. In the greater temple he
himself was to be enthroned. Pierson and 1.\'I. H.
S. were to occupy each a lesser throne, on his right
hand and on his left. Before him was to stand an
HIS IMPOSTURES. 135
altar on which was to be placed a massive candle-
stick, with seven branches-all of pure gold. Can-
dlesticks of iron were to stand on the altar before
his two lesser divinities, already mentioned. lie
continued his rhapsody for about ten minutes longer,
with great violence of speech nnd gesture, frequently
raising his shrill and harsh voice to the top of his
lungs.
Having concluded his harangue, the ckrgyman
then requested of l\Ir. Pierson liberty to speak-to
which the prophet instantly objected, adding, that
they wanted no teachers there, and that all who
came must be content to learn. lUr. Pierson was
then again a~ked-" Is .this not your own hause ?
May I not be permitted to speak 1"
With some reluctance, and looking with fear and
trembling at his master, l\Ir. Pierson then consented,
and the gentleman proceeded affectionately to ad-
monish him agninst consorting with such a man,
of whom there could be no doubt that he was a
gross impostor. He therefore warned his old friend
to abandon him at once, and repent of the errors
into which he had fallen.
1\Ir. Pierson, who, with his spiritual instructor,
was sitting upon the·sofa, here interposed by saying
that he could not allow such language to be uttered in
his house against so holy a man. The prophet, how-
ever, was not satisfied with the gentle rebuke of John
the Baptist; but springing upon his feet in a passion,
he raised his arms perpendicularly, and rushed furi-
ously towards the gentleman-shrieking wildly at
the highest pitch of his voice. He raved incohe~
136 ~lA TTHIAS AND
rently, and with such loudness and half-suffocated
rage, as to prevent his words from being understood
-further than that he continued to protest against
allowing any person to come there to teach him.
So violent was his manner as to intimidate poor
Pierson, who trembled like an aspen-leaf.
Being now convinced that no good was to be ac-
coniplished by remaining longer, the gentleman de-
parted from the truly melancholy scene-extending
his hand to l\Ir. Pierson on leaving, from which,
however, the deluded man shrunk back, as though
every finger had been pointed with the sting of a
scorpion. '
The idea of this New Jerusalem, which was to
adorn western New-York with its gorgeous palaces
and solemn temples, was a frequent subject of the
prophet's discourses, and was fully believed in b)
his disciples. As a matter of course, the furniture
was to. correspond with its external grandeur. Fm
the purpose, therefore, of making some preliminary
preparations, while yet residing with J\Ir. 1\i. H. S.,
in the summer of 1832, Matthews, in company with
this gentleman, called at the large and ,amply finished
fancy store of Mr. Garrliner, in Broadway, to ex-
amine the fashion and style of his silver-wares.
After taking a general survey of the articles for
which they had inquired-Of massive silver, richly
embossed, and many of them with exquisite skill-
they remarked that the plate would not answer their
purpose at all. On being interrogated in what re-
spect the articles-which were of the most fashion-
able patterns-were defective, they replied that " it
HIS In!POSTURES. 137
was now the reign of THE LION!" and that every
piece must be surmounted with that noble animal.
They also advised 1\lr. Gardiner to dispose of his
stock in trade as soon as possible, and commence
the manufacture of articles of the pattern they had
described, as none other would in a short time be in
demand. It was then asked whether it was the
British lion they wanted? To which Matthews
answered, No; for the British lion was a devil; but
he meant "the Lion of the tribe of Judah." He
then proceeded to say that he was authorized to
contract for the building of a magnificent temple,
which was soon to be commenced, and of which all
the utensils were to be of gold and silver. This
temple was to exceed in splendour all that could be
pictured forth to the imagination ; and with a view
,to furnishing the vessels and utensils of silver and
.gold, it would be wise for Mr. Gardiner to engage
:all the best artificers in .the world, for that all would
be wanted.
In the course of a week or ten days afterward,
l\lr. l\1. H. S. called alone, and after the ordinary
exchange of salutations, observed-" l\Ir. Gardiner,
the Kingdom of God is at hand, are you not glad of
it?" l\Ir. Gardiner having signified his assent to
this proposition, the gentleman proceeded to make
inquiries respecting the silver-ware, desiring also to
consult him as to certain alterations and engravings,
which he wished to have executed upon his own
family plate. He produced several pieces, on which
he wished various inscriptions to be made-one of
which was-" The kingdom of God is at hand ;"
M2
138 MATTHIAS AND
but the others are not recollected. Remonstrances
that such inscriptions would only disfigure'his silver
werfl made to no purpose. On the day following
he called again, accompanied by a servant, laden
with a basket of silver-ware, conta_ining various ar-
ticles, among which was a tea-set. His directions
were, that a silverlion be placed upon the top ofthe
tea-pot, the sugar-bowl, &c., and also, that the
spout of the former should be ornamented with
a lion's head, from the mouth of which the tea should
be poured. The alterations and engravings having
been made as directed, he then ordered a silver
chalice, with two inscriptions, one of which was,
that it was presented to the prophet Matthias hy
himself and children.
He frequently called at the store afterward,
sometimes in company with Matthias, and at others
without him. At length he gave an order for a
porcelain dinner service, to have the device of the
lion, and the inscriptions already upon his plate ; but
the order was on so large a scale that the merchant
was unwilling to execute it. Suspecting, moreover,
by this time, what was the state of the gentleman's
mind, he consulted with some of his friends, and
determined not to execute the order, but at the same
time to humour him as far as he could, when he
called, as he frequently did, to make inquiries for
the articles. At a subsequent visit Matthias com-
menced one of his flighty and boisterous orations-
boasting of his supernatural endowments, and talk-
ing largely of his power to save or destroy. One
of his conceits was, that he could destroy all the
HIS IMPOSTURES. 139
flies in the world as easily as "that"-rapping his
fingers upon a box by which he was standing.
This insect was particularly offensive to him ; and
one of the comforts of " his kingdom" was to con-
sist in the cleanliness of the houses, which were to
be kept with such neatness that the flies would be
unable to live in them.
1\Iatters having proceeded thus with 1\Ir. l\I. H. S.
for about three months, some of his friends, finding
that both Matthews and himself required to be taken
care of, procured a warrant, setting forth that, " by
reason of lunacy, or otherwise, they were so far disor-
dered in their senses as to endanger their persons, or
the persons and property of others, if permitted to go
at large." On this warrant, the gentleman referred
to was sent to the llloomingdale lunatic asylum,
and Matthews to the apartment of the insane poor
at Bellevue. It having bPen suggested to the
brother of one of his disciples, that the secret of
the prophet's power over his infatuated followers,
like the strength of Samson, lay in his hair, means
were found to set the Philistines of the police upon
him, and he was shorn of his favourite beard-a
bereavement which he greatly lamented. A brother
of the impostor, hearing of his confinement, procured
a writ of habeas COI']JUS, upon which he was brought
before the Recorder, and after a hearing discharged.
He was immediately arrested, however, on a charge
of blasphemy, but was admitted to bail, having en-
countered no difficulty in procuring sureties. No
trial upon this charge took place.
While a resident with l\Ir. l\1. H. S. he..was very
140 ~IATTHIAS AND
boisterous and noisy in his preaching-to such an
extent that the neighbours complained, and measures
were projected to abate the nuisance. It is not
known what were his private habits at this time, but
suspicions of gross licentiousness were entertained,
in consequenc.e of the visits of females to his apart-
ments. With some <if these he became angry, and
one or more of them was severely whipped by him.
It is not supposed that the gentleman whose hospi-
tality he was at once enjoying and ·so greatly abusing,
was at all cognizant of any such proceedings, or of
his supposed licentiousness. After the arrest, how-
ever, papers were discovered on the premises, by
which it was ascertained that Matthews had been
projecting a match between Mr. M. H. S. and his
daughter, whom he had left at Albany, and whose
name will subsequently appear in the present history
as Mrs. Laisdell. She was to have been brought
from Albany for that purpose.
Not more than six weeks had elapsed after the re-
moval of this gentleman to llloomingdale, before he
looked upon the impostor with detestation.
" He is a devil," he exclaimed one day in con-
versation with a friend.
" How do you know him to be such 1" was the
reply.
" Because God has told me so."
" Because God has told you so ! How do you
know that?"
" How do I know ? There can be no mistake
upon the subject. He is the devil, ' the real crittur'
-the monster himself. God tells me so. Why,
HIS J)IPOSTURES. 141
God talks to me every day, as a parent does to a
child.''
Upon this subject of direct communication with
the Spirit, and of interviews with the departed, this
gentleman seemed to have imbibed the same delu-
sion which 1\lr. Pierson had acquired from l\lrs.
'if 'if*, by whose agency, or through whose instru-
mentality, all the evils we have been describing, were
beyond all question superinduced. Both his wife
and father had recently deceased, and he frequently
related the interviews he was in the habit of holding
with them. His father, in particular, was in the
habit of calling in upon him often, in a sociable man-
ner, and holding long and agreeable conversations
with him.
He was much pleased with his residence at the
Asylum-with its noble edifice, its beautiful grounds,
and the glorious landscape in the midst of which it
is so delightfully situated. His opinion seemed to
be, that it was a branch of the New Jerusalem of
his day-dreams, and that hereafter gentlemen were
to live in large communities, and grand establish-
ments like that. As to the present inmates, how-
ever, he did not believe they were men, but rather
that they were devils. These vagaries clearly show,
that the interposition of his friends, to rescue him
from the toils of Pierson and 1\latthews, had not
been t;tken too soon.
Afier his release upon the habeas co1-pus, as al-
ready related, 1\latthews was again received into the
house of l\Ir. Pierson, with whom he enjoyed a hos-
pitable home until October-at wliich time his be·
142 niATTHIAS AND
nevolent disciple rented and furnished a house for
his exclusive use, in Clarkson-street, where, with
the noted Isabella for his housekeeper, he resided
until the following l\Iay (1833).
This change was dictated, as Mr. Pierson sup-
posed, by the Holy Spirit, in the words following,
which arc taken from his diary :-
Oct. 3. Mr. Matthias shall go from you, and you shall go on
.with your work, and be prospered, and have every needed gift
and wisdom.
His intercourse with l\Ir. Pierson was kept up as
usual during the winter ; but in regard to his life
and conduct at what was emphatically now his own
home, there is no certain information. He was
much in the streets as before, and frequently preached
from his own door to the people occasionally col-
lecting for amusement around it. Whenever he
became irritated with Isabella, however, in regard
to household or other matters, he would remain at
home, and preach to her the whole day.
The papers of Mr. Pierson during this period,
furnish but little information in respect either to his;
temporal or spiritual affairs. The general state of
his mind remained much the same, however, as wil],
be seen by the following extracts :-
Su"4ay, 24th March, 1833. After breakfast, the Spirit said, goui
stairs and pray: whatsoever you ask, shall be granted, I
Prayed for a clean heart and a right spirit to be renewed ir'
me ; for power over all the power of the enemy : to tread orj
serpents and scorpions : to be filled with godlike wisdom-fOI
all the gifts and gTaces of body and mind Jesus had for the pen
formance of his ministry; gift of llrcwhecy (preaching) : thatll
II
IIIS IMPOSTURES. 143
my captivity might be turned like that of Joh : to be raised
high above all my enemies, and the fear of man: that the people
m1ght hear me as preparing the way of the Lord as John the
Baptist : that l might baptize them according to the will of
God.
April 9th, 1833. In the night had a view of my ew body. I
appeared taller than I am now, very ruddy and fai r, with no
beard except under the clun, full of animation and sprightliness.
There 1
was something said about tho tall young man spoken of
by Esaras.
At the close of April, the prophet's establishment
was broken np, and he took lodgings at the lower
extremity of the city, in the hotel corner of .l\larket-
field and West streets. The cause of this change
in his domestic arran'gcments is not exactly known.
A strong inference may be drawn, however, from
the following entry in .l\Ir. Pierson's diary a month
before:-
Monday, ,1farch 18, 1833. While meditating concerning supply-
ing Mr. M. with a monthly supply, the spirit said, "give him no
more, he has disobeyed me, and thou shalt give him no more
at all. Thi• word is sure unto thee, saith the Lord that beareth
thee.
T he within injunction wos made in the most unqualified
terms, and repeated. One point of disobedience appeared to be
about the watch. It was said, thou hast obeyed my mice,
therefore I will bless thee above men.
There must be no change of this determination. T he Lord
requires it so.
An additional reason for supposing that a misun-
derstanding had arisen between the prophet and his
discipl~', is found in the fact, that during the three
or four months of his boarding at the before-men-
tioned hotel, he was evidently but ill-supplied with
money. His custom was to pay his reckonings
144 MATTlllAS AND
daily, whenever he had the means; but there were
occasional periods of three or four days, when he
was entirely destitute, and his wardrobe seemed to
be less amply furnished with new garments, \han
during the preceding summer.
The contiguity of his present quarters to the Bat-
tery enabled him to indulge himself to the full in
walks upon that beautiful esplanade ; and on return-
ing to the hotel, he was certain to be followed by a
portion of the crowd, who, from motives of curiosity,
or to annoy him with questions, or irritate him by
contradictions, would be sure to remain so long in
the bar-room as enabled the landlord to find his ac-
count in it. As to the general deportment of Mat-
thews during this period, it is not represented asI
having been particularly obnoxious to censure. On
his first introduction to the hotel, he attempted once
or twice to play off his prophetical airs, and display
his boisterous oratory. But the landlord perfectly
understood him, and being withal a man of energy,
he soon took the conceit out of him, and subse- '
quently had no trouble with him. The frequenters
of the bar-room would occasionally exasperate him,
and in return he would pour forth a torrent of curses
upon them; but whenever the landlord perceived
that he was likely to proceed too far, he would step
up and say to him, " Mr. Matthias, it is time for
you to go to bed." The intimation was sufficient,
and he would obey it from that source with the do-
cility of a child. Justice also requires it to be said,
that so far as is known or believed, his moral co~
duct while residing at the Battery, was_irreproach-
able.
HiS 11.\IPOSTURES. 14t3
Whether there had actually been a quarrel be·
tween the prophet and his disciple, it has already
been said, is not known. But if it were so, it will
shortly appear that the differences between them
were not lasting. l\Ieantime, in conclusion of the
present chapter, as we have done wi.!Q_ r. Pierson's
recorded conversations with the Deity it is proper
to state the explanation which e gave of the man-
ner in which those conversations were held. He
maintained indeed that God spoke audibly to him;
but on being asked, how it happened, that if God
spoke thus to him, no other persons could hear him 1
he replied, that it was not exactly a voice which he
heard, but words were in some mysterious manner
communicated to him, which he was enabled to bear
though they could not be heard by others.
N
H G MATTiliAS AND
CHAPTER VII.
History of Mr. and Mrs. Folger resumed-Commencement of
their acquaintance with Matthias-Pierson's instructions-
Efforts of Matthias to bring Mr. Folger into his power::....
Throws himself upon the family of Mr. F. at Singsing unin-
vited-Mr. and 1\Irs. Folger's narrative of the circumstances-
Dreams, and Visions, and Vagaries of the Prophet, in which
the Reader will find more of ingenuity than he expects-His
discourse with Adam- Claims Divine A!tributes and the Au·
thorship of the Bible-Strange notions about the transmigra-
tion of the Spirit of Truth-Vision of the Indian-New
Theory of Sickness-Diet and general manner of Jiving at
Mount Zion--Cruel treatment of Mrs. Folger in Sickness-
Bathing-Refutation of Calumnies upon that Subject-Dan-
iel's Image of Gold, and Gen. Jackson's faUing from the Bridge
at Castle Garden an Evil omen to his Successor-Gift of
the Hal)' Ghost conferred upon Pierson- F.xplanations of the
Prophet's attire-The Chariot of Israel- The Prophet's no-
tions respecting marriage-Re-marriage of 1\Ir. and ~Irs. FoJ.
ger by Mr. Pierson-And again by the Prophet-Internal de-
scription of the household of Mount Zion-Journey to Albany
fur the family of Matthias- Whipping of his Daughter-Whips
the sick Devil out of Isabella-Discipline of his own Family
-Mount Zion given to the Prophet-Mr. Folger's Bank·
ruptcy- A Catastrophe with a Coach-~ir. Folger doubts the
Prophet-Rupture-Seizes him by the Throat-Reconcilia-
tion-Sickness and Death of Mr. Pierson-Removal to New-
York-The Delusion passes away- Matthias driven away-
End of the Narrative.
THus far the reader will have perceived that l.\Ir.
Benjamin H. J.'olger and his wife had had no con-
nection or acquaintance with the pretended Prophet,
into whose toils they were ultimately doomed to fall.
They had indeed early been the victims of the lady
(l\'lrs. * * *), with whom commenced the infatua-
tion that in the end was productive of such disastrous
results-an infatuation engendered in fanaticism, and
running into an almost unheard of delusion ;-and
IIIS DIPOSTURES. 147
1hey had, moreover, been associated with that lady
and 1\Ir. Pierson in most of their memorable pro-
ceedings at Bowery Hill; but they had hitherto es-
caped the fellowship of the impostor, for whose ap-
pearance the way had been so admirably prepared.
But the glance of the pretended Shiloh had singled
them out for his prey, and they seem to have had no
more power of escape than the charmed bird from
the glittering folds of the serpent.
During the summer of 1832, 1\Ir. Pierson had
made frequent efforts to procure the attendance of
1\Ir. Folger upon the preaching of 1\Iatthias, by re-
peated calls at his place of business, and also by
letter. But, as has already been stated, 1\Ir. Fol-
ger's affairs required his attention in the interior, and
he did not return with his family to the city until the
close of September. The only knowledge which at
that time he possessed of 1\Iatthias, had been derived
from l\Ir. Pierson's letters, and the newspaper ac-
counts of his arrest and confinement, as detailed in
the preceding chapter. Having determined to form
no definite opinion respecting him until after their
return to the city, nor even then from mere hearsay
and rumour, they early sought an interview with l\lr.
Pierson. Of that interview, and its consequences,
and the history of their subsequent acquaintance
with the impostor himself, and the manner in which
he wrought upon their credulity, and subverted for
a time their understandings, they will be allowed to
speak for themselves, in the following narrative, which
they have prepared at the solicitation of the writer.
The insertion of this narrative, nearly entire, is due
148 MATTIIIAS AND
to l\Ir. and l\:Irs. Folger in justice ; and it is sub.
rnitted with the assurance that the writer has reason
to repose entire confidence in the veracity of this
extraordinary narration. The writer thinks, more-
over, that it is not only an act of justice to l\Ir. and
l\Irs. Folger to give their statement, but that the
reader will consider it very far from being the least
interesting and extraordinary portion of this extra-
ordinary history. The occurrences at Singsing (or
l\Iount Zion, as the place was called), with the ex-
ception of that part which had, or was supposed to
have, a direct and immediate reference to the death
of Mr. Pierson, have never been made known to
the public; and saving l\:lrs. Folger and the impos-
tor himself, there is none living by whom they can
be told. Various stories have indeed been circu-
lated, but in these there is great exaggeration and
much absolute falsehood; we repeat that we have
implicit confidence in the relation of l\Ir. and l\Irs.
Folger. The mystery that has hitherto brooded on
thes~ transactions exists no longer.
"At the close of September we went to town, de-
termined upon an interview with l\Ir. Pierson. \Ve
called upon him-found him with a beard about an
inch long--and learned from him ihat :Mr. l\1--
was in the Lunatic Asylum, and that l\1r. Matthias
had been thrown into prison, but was again an in-
mate of his house. \Ve inquired of l\Ir. Pierson
respecting the newspaper statementR, and he replied
that they were very incorrect. He censured us
/!)Uch for bein~ out of the w~y, and said teat we l;la~ '
HIS DIPOSTtiRES. 149
met with a loss which we might not be able to re-
gain. Mr. Pierson then told us that he had found
a man in the person of Matthias much farther ad-
vanced in the truth than himself. We told 1\Ir.
Pierson it was the general impres~ion abroad that he
(1\lr. Pierson) was deranged. He answered that
he was aware of it, and regarded it as his protection
·from confinement-but that he had the truth, and
1\Iatthias was much in advance of him in the
knowledge of truth-that Matthias was to be his
teacher, and he ou1·s, and we must aclmowledge
him as such.
"We had a long interview with 1\Ir. Pierson, in
the course of which he forbade ns going any more
to church or to prayer-meetings, as all these were
to be broken up ; and we were farther ordered to
dismiss our Sabbath-school. It is proper to men-
tion here, that we had obtained the use of a school-
house, near our residence in the country, which 1\Ir.
Folger occupied for the male school, and which was
filled to m·erflowing-we had several good teachers
and assistants fi·om the immediate neighbourhood.
The female school was held in our house, under the
care of l\Irs. Folger, assisted hy several ladies from
the vicinity. :Mrs. Folger was instructed to li~ten
to no teacher but her hnsband, and in no case to
preach or teach herself, as all female preaching
was now to be considered unlawful. 1\Ir. Folger
was told to teach his own household.
""Ve wPre told to discontinue communing with
the church, as we must not taste wine until we drank
it anew with Jesus in the Kingdom, and that the
N2
150 lllATTliiAS AND
new wine was to be found in the cluster ; .and he
(l\Ir. Pierson) referred -us to many passages of
Scripture, and told us to go home and search if these
things were not so. We did search-had difficulty
in reconciling many points-reported them to 1\lr.
Pierson, and he would from time to time explain
and make it all clear. ""e soon had difficulty with
the church-stated that we wished to retire-the
church called us before them, and after much
painful debate, we withdrew entirely on the 4th of
July, 1833.
" \Ye had many interviews with Mr. Pierson,
both at his, and our own residence, between October,
1832, and July, 1833, and by this time had become
converts to the doctrines of l\Iatthias, as taught by
l\'Ir. Pierson, so far as we could understand them.
But in all our interviews we were told there was
much more to learn which was valuable ; but that
minds so established in the errors of Christianity
could not be easily overcome, and should be dealt
with accordingly."
Such were the instructions they r~ceived from
Mr. Pierson, and such the first fruits in this com-
mencement of their pupilage under the first an,d
greatest disciple of the prophet. But during this
period, the prophet himself was not idle, as we Jearn
from a deposition of 1\Ir. Folger, afterward made as
the basis of judicial proceedings. In that deposition,
1\Ir. Folger, the deponent, stated, that he first be-
came acquainted with 1\Tatthews at Pierson's house,
at the period above mentioned ; that Mr. Pierson,
HIS IMPOSTURES. 151
fit the time of the deponent's introduction to 1\lat-
thias, professed, and appeared to believe sincerely,
that the representations of Matthias as to himself
and his divine character were true, and so repre-
sented them to deponent; who, from his confidence
in Pierson, was prepared to place confidence in the
assertions of .Matthews. That these assertions
were to the effect that he, l\Iatthews, was the Spirit
of Truth, which had disappeared from the earth at -
the death of .Matthias mentioned in the New Testa-
ment, but had returned i11 him ; that he was that
same Matthias, risen from the dead, and animated
by the Spirit of God. That l\Iatthias, the apostle
of the New Testament, was animated by the Spirit
of Jesus Christ ; but that he, l\latthews, in this
his second cQming, was anlma_!ed .. by !_he_Bfiirit of _}
God the Father. That he was himself God the
Father, a·ndlmd power to do alf tilrngs ;!oforgive
sins, and to communicate the Holy Ghost to such
as believed in him. That Matthews called upon
him, the deponent, from time to time, at his place
of business, and that in their interviews there, and
in other places, l\latthews always made the same
assertions respecting his own character and .person :
that on one occasion, to illustrate his supernatural
or divine power, l\Iatthews placed a sheet of paper
in a drawer, which he then closed in such a manner
as to leave a portion of the sheet exposed, and said
to deponent, " You see but one end of this sheet of
paper, which is outside of the drawer, but I see the
whole of it-1 see the end-and thus I see tlte end
Dfall things." That he, the deponeo_~ ,be~me fully
~:·(;i~~f~: ':~';!
-
-
152 MATTIIIAS AKD
convinced of the truth of Matthews's assertions, and
looked up to him with reverence as the impersona-
tion of the Almighty, and this belief was also shared
by deponent's wife ; and, as a consequence, they
also believed that it was their duty to supply all his
wants, and obey all his injunctions. That Mat-
thews represented himself to be poor, in want of
money, and persecuted by the world, which was
under the influence of the devil ; that he had com-
menced the kingdom of God upon earth, into which
l\'Iills and Pierson had been called, but the perma-
nent estaLiishment of which was defeated and pre-
vented for a time by the devil, whom he was now
about to overcome ; for which purpose it was the
duty of deponent to contribute a portion of his sub-
stance, under penalty of being visited with the dis-
pleasure of the Almighty. Obedience in all things,
he said, would be rewarded with forgiveness of sins
and eternal happiness. That he, deponent, believ-
ing these representations, furnished l\Iatthews with
such moneys as he required from time to time, in
different amounts. Such was the substance of the
deposition referred to, so far as relates to the earlier
part of their acquaintance with the prophet. The
narrative ofl\'Ir. and l\'Irs. Folger is now resumed:-
"About the 20th of August, 1833, on our return
(l\'Ir. and l\Irs. Folger) from a short visit to New-
y ork, we found Matthias at our residence. He had
been there two days. He was an unexpected
visiter, but we soon heard from his own lips an ac-
count of his sufferings for the cause of truth, as he
JIIS IMPOSTURES, 153
termed it; and our minds having been prepared by
l\1r, Pierson's instructions, with the oft repeated
caution not to reject him when he did come, but to
receive him in the character he announced himself-
that it was as dangerous to reject truth as to receive
error-referring us to the words contained in
Exodus, twenty-third chapter, commencing with the
twentieth verse, and including the twenty-second-
the way, we repeat, being thus prepared, we invited
him to stay over the Sabbath, expecting him to leave
us on l\londay afternoon following.
" lie said, that at his birth there was a light,
above the brightness of the sun. In the course of
his narratil'e, he stated his remarkable exercises and
visions, only a part of which will be given, to show
that there was a foundation and system in his reli-
gion, as it was presented to us, and more of plausi-
bility than we are willing to have publishtd, however
much we are, or may be, censured and ridiculed for
weakness. ' Ve entertain now the same respect for
the cause of religion that we did previous to our ac-
quaintance with 1\lrs. * * *, l\Ir. Pierson, or the
impostor l\Iatthias. El'ery thing we hal'e done,
notwithstanding the loathsome scandal heaprd upon
us by the unprincipled, has bern done under full
conviction that we were doing right, and it is not
probable that our destruction will be entirely accom-
plished, notwithstanding the effilrts to that end.
"l\Iatthias told us of the miracles he had wrought,
end of the acknowledgments of his power from time
•
154 niATTliiAS AND
to t.ime--that he attained this power by his obe-
dience to the Spirit of Truth, in which he ventured
far, regardless of the persecution that followed him,
and by this means he obtained the power of discern-
ing the Spirits, of which there were many.
"After much preaching against all intemperance,
in obedience to the true Spirit, he saw in a vision a
vast extent of surface, covered with something re-
sembling smoke or steam. He blew it away-\\·as
commended by the Spirit, and was shown a great
red sea, which was called the sea of intemperance-
a vice which he had gone farther to subdue than any
other person-but that it had since become a popular
cause. He was then shown the veil of the temple,
as it was rent by Jesus, and he had the courage,
which was very pleasing to the Spirit, to look in-
and he saw many things which we could not bear to
know yet.
"In recounting his sufferings, he mentioned hav-
ing been thrown into several prisons, and had
suffered it to be so for wise purposes. 0 nee, in
obedience to the Spirit, I~ went into a church in Ar-
gyle, and _told the minister before his people, that he
was preaching f."tlsehood, and wherein ; and that he
had come to take away his commission. He was
seized and thrown into prison, but the Spirit was with
him, to teach and fit him for the work he had yet to
accomplish. In that prison the spirit of man yielded
to, and delivered him a cloven tongue, with the
power to bless with the one, and to curse with the
other ; that since then the male spirit had not made
any resistance, but the female spirit had never been
IllS niPOSTtTRES, 155
subdued-that he had discovered in those who felt
or expressed opposition to him, whether in the per-
son of a male or female, that they were actuated by
n female spirit.
"One night, during his stay at l\fr. --'s house,
just after he had retired to bed, .!ldam appeared to
him in pe1·son ;* and in a vision, all the witnesses
of truth, from Adam to the then present time, ap-
peared, to_
yield up their spirits to him, with all the
knowledge they posse8sed, and acknowledged him
as the resurrection, or a repository for their spirits,
until he (::\1 atthias), their aid, should prepare others
to receive them. Adam said to l\Iatthias-' You
are the man I have been looking for.' He then gave
him something about the size of an ordinary Bible,
say eight inches in length, and three inches thick,
full of seals ; on one edge of which was a serpent;
-this, Adam said, was the soul of man. 'Yith it
he gave Matthias a sword, and told him that even
then he would reject him if he did not destroy the
serpent ;-that he then cut it off with the sword, and
declared, as Adam instructed him, ' that women
should not rule their husbands in the kingdom he
was about to set up.' Adam then told' l\Iatthias
that since he had undertaken this work, he must
suffer for his (Adam's) redemption; that the suffer-
ings of Jesus had not reached his case ; for that
Jesus-the Son-could not redeem any over thirty-
three years of age; that he (l\Iatthias) then went
• Of this vision, Matthias had given Pierson an account the
year before, as we discover by an entry in his diary-" l\Jay 25,
1632 : R. Matthias had his exercisesconcerning Adam."-./luthOf'.
156 MATTHIAS AND
into a state of extreme suffering, and, as he judged,
underwent the pains of hell, which lasted all night.
·when he came out of this state of suffering, Adam
expressed himself highly satisfied, and vanished.
" l\Iatthias then described himself as God, but in
a·manner which we could more easily convey ver-
bally than in a written communication. He was a '
spirit when the world was a chaos. ·when he
formed the dry land and the water, he diffused him·
self in the earth and water as spirit, and caused
gras~, plants, shrubs, and trees to spring up. He
was in all these. He went on improving in all his
work,-filling the waters with living things ; and
whatever of life, spirit, or animation there was in
them was part of himself. He next made the in·
sect and animal world, the last and noblest of which
was the horse, and infused of his spirit into all.
"A portion of the substance of which he had
formed all the animal world-even to the serpent-
was retained to form man ; but before he put his
governing spirit into man, he took from him a bone,
or rib, and formed woman. Then he caused his
governing spirit, or infused himself into Adam, so
that Adam was God, and being pleased with all
things he had made, and standing so nearly related
to them, he was disposed to exercise mercy and
de~ justly with all.
"He accounted for Adam's fall by stating that
his governing spirit had retired to another part of
the garden, or Eve could not have overcome him.
It was not intended that the female should have any
pari of the governing spirit, for the man stood
IIIS ll\IPOSTURES. 157
always responsible for his wife, and was to guard
her from every evil. In this instance, the govern-
ing spirit came in an audi!Jie voice and inquired of
Adam what he had done.
" He said our ideas of God were very incorrect.
He had brought about many changes, and tried
many experiments in the world, and, although he ...-{
was the source from which all wisdom came, yet he \ ~~ 1
was increasing in wisdom continually. He gave /
us the course and occupation of his spirit from that
time until Abraham's day, but it is too tedious to
relate, and we are desirous of getting over the
whole matter. ·
" The Bible was not laid aside by us, but it was
regarded as the word of God. His (Matthias's)
spirit wrote the original, and would give an idea of
the order he meant to establish in the world. His
governing spirit was iri Abraham, and Abraham was
then God. He ruled his household, educated his
son himself, and was to be found in his tent-door,
through which nothing could pass without his in-
spection to disquiet his family. He likewise stated
the time and manner he, or tho spirit he had re-
ceived and then possessed, had originally written-
the Bible.
" He was well acquainted with the truths of the
Scriptures,-the copy he brought with him as his
own had evidently been much used,-it was much
marked with pencil, had an old appearance, but had
been well taken care of. He expressed violent in-
dignation that his words should be printed on paper
made of filthy rags, instead of being written on
0
158 T.!ATTIIIAS AND
parchment,--but the Gentiles had defiled every
thing. They (the Gentiles)· had not only omitted
many portions of the word entirely, of which there
is no mention in the Scriptures, but they had like-
,vise omitted many books and ·portions spoken-
such as the book of Jasher and Daniel's vision,
which were sealed up with a promise that he should
stand in his lot in the last days, and unseal them.
l\Iany of the Apostles' writings, he taught us, were
missing. He undertook to give the contents of the
little book that John ate, spoken of in Revelations,
...., as well as all the missing parts of the Bible. He
,:;. was also highly offended at the Gentiles for the ad-
~·...._ clition to the Scriptures of the words that were in
c Italics.
~ .._ " He undertook to explain many passages of
~· Scripture that are mysterious: we instance one. It
J:. is written, 'No man shall see my face and live.'
" ""{- His explanation was, that Adam could only see all
~ ~
1·· that was to be seen of God in his day; whoever re-
·- - ceived Adam's spirit at his death, could only see all
~ \i.. that was to be seen of God with his bodily eyes in
his day ; so that it could not be that any 'man could
see God's face and live until death was destroyed.
"Every husband and father should rule his own
house. He taught that the man would be furnished
with a governing spirit, and the power of endo~ing
the wife with just enough for her station, and the
children for theirs. Hence the necessity of with-
drawing our children from school, as whoever
teaches instils spirit into them, and, should they die,
all the spirit they receive from this or that teacher,
JIIS DIPOSTURES. 159 J
in the way of instruction, would return from whence
it came. This was termed the child's soul. It
'"'as desirable with us, therefore, that our children
should partake of our spirit; and should'they die be-
fore the enemy, death, was destroyed, their spirits
would return to us, or, when we saw fit, which was
altogether ~ptional with us (whether we lived for
ever or not), their bodies would be receptacles for
our spirits.
" He continued to teach us the course of the /
Spirit of God from Abraham to Isaac, Jacobi
1\Ioses, Joshua, and all the prophets and apostles.
It will be recollected that he received th!Ulfli-:!!s of
alltlie,VItllesses of truth. He would descnbe th (,.,. /,. ·~·
diffei-enf scenesana su1Ierings they passed through ..,!
and state when the different spirits spoke by hi (re>.J-,.
mouth. He claimed to be the resurrection of all ·
the holy charactersspolten of in the Scriptures, pos-
sessing the right to rule the whole world. He de-
ciare<r,ln God's own language, ' I am God, there \
is none else.' Ho ridiculed the idea of a heaven
above, and explained much of the Scripture that we
had not regarded as very important to us, such as
the tabernacle in the wilderness, for which particular
directions were given in the construction and fur-
nishin,!!, and which showed that God designed it for
a dwelling-place for himself.
"The temple of Solomon was only a miniature
of the one he was to build for himself, besides the
house of many mansions for his people to dwell in.
His plan for building these was the most complete
wd magnificent that can be imagined. We can-
160 1\IATTHIAS AlllD
1
not do justice to his description, but we should
think his architectural taste ,must be good. There
would be no want of means, as all the treasures of
the earth would be his after the seven years had ex-
pired in 1837, which was the last hour of God's
judgment.
, " He explained another vision he had had. An
Indian brought him a bundle of arrows, with some-
thing written upon each, such as ' Earthqualles,'-
'Fires,' 'Floods,' '\Vars,' 'Famine,' &c., which
was an acknowledgment to him of his right to com-
mission others to execute these judgments when and
where he pleased. He would sometimes foretell
these calamities, and where and 'yhen they would oc-
cur, which tended to strengthen or increase our faith.
On one occasion, he took a bundle of small cords,
as he said Jesus had done when he overthrew the
money changers, and it being in the time of the
panic, it so happened that many merchants of long
standing failed immediately after, and he thus again
seemed to have something plausible in his preten-
sions. He hated traffic, and merchandise of all
kinds, especially the sale of land, for the earth was
our mother, and it was written, ' the land shall not
be sold for ever.' Lev. xxv. 23.
" He gave us his plan for the temple. It was to
be a great storehouse for people from all parts of the
'x \ world to resort to, with the products of their labour.
!._ ~~~·rJ The farmer would till the earth to the best advantage,
f' . reserve only enough for his own support, and con.
\ · vey the surplus to the great storehouse-receive no
,i;'v· pay, but get other things which he might need for
IllS In!POSTURES. 161
his family. The various mechanics, and indeed
every class in society, were to employ the talents, of
which there would be a more equal division-put
the surpln!l of their labour in the storehouse, like
the · far"mer, and receive what he ·needed: and in
this way, the plan fully carried out, there would be
no oppression. The priests would be what he ever
intended tliey should be-the preachrrs of his Gos-
pel, which consisted in doing, and not in talking of
doing.*' lie instanced the messengers of John the
Baptist to Jesus, with the question, • Art thou he
that should come,' and in the same hour Jesus
cured many of their infirmities, plagues, and evil
spirits, to many that were blind he gave sight, &c.,
and sent them to tell John what things they had
seen and heard-that the poor had the gospel
preached to them, indeed, and blessed were those
who would not be offended in him. The priests,
therefore, were to minister in the temple-taking
charge, and ordering every thing-the Levites to
furnish the people with food, clothing, &c., of which
there would be an abundant supply.
" The seven years, before spoken of, would af-
*Upon this point, Mrs. Folger has related one of Matthias's
propositions to the writer, which is not set down in the narra-
tive. According to his belief, thNe are three classes of profes-
sional gentlemen, whom he calls black-coats anrl devils, and
who are engaged in a conspiracy against the lives and ptoperty
of men. The'e are the priests, the doctors, and the lawyers.
The business of lhe first, he says, is to persuade men into a wil~
lingness to die; the doctor then st~ps in to help them out of the
world; whereupon the lawyt'r makes his appearance to take
possession of the estate. There is shrewdness, at least, in the
conception; whether or no the shrewdness of insanity, the reader
must determine for himself.-Author.
02
162 !IATTHIAS AND
ford all those who had any truth an opportunity of
recognising him in his official character, and of sur-
rendering themselves and the property in their pos-
session to him; but at this time, his judgments
would all be poured out, and his agreement with the
c \ , last enemy, death, would be !It an end. He had
: S .. made an agreement with death, or in other words,
.•~ .., the devil, that he should be the God of this world
~- \'t for a time ; but that time had nearly expirt:d when
•"• • he (the devil) was to submit to his destruction. He
1 '-' had not given him full power, but with what he had
given him, the world was in a greater chaos than at
the beginning ; hence his reply to Jesus, as he .was
casting out devils, 'Art thou come to torment us
before the time.'
" He taught that all sicknesses were detached
spirits, from their head-death-as messengers to
destroy these bodies, which were the work of God.
"\Ve said to him that we had expected these bodies,
and those of our kindred who had gone before, to
rise again, as it was written that those who were in
their graves should hear his voice, and those who
slept in the dust should" arise, but he soon dashed
our hopes in this particular-our bodies were made
of the dust, and formed graves for the spirits of those
who had departed ; for it would be found that many
spirits are now asleep in the people, which will
awake at his bidding to recognise him. These
spirits had hitherto been with' little children, but they
could not now find rest there ; the introduction of
Infant-schools had completed the desolation spoken
of by Daniel.
JUS IMPOSTURES, 163
"In the Gentile system, a man's wife was de-
coyed by false teachers to prayer meetings and
church-his older children scattered in different
schools-and now, at last, to complete the ruin, the
infant was committed to the care and teaching o~
strangers. This was contrary to God's piau. Go
had placed us on the earth in familie~, and his spiri i'- ~~
was averse to any other plan. 'I will be the Go Y -~
of all ~he familie_s of Israel, and they shall be m l {t..f,
,people. Jer. ~XXI. 1. v•
"He gave other proofs upon this subject. He '-
had never designed to raise those bodies that had
yieldf1d to death, for he had enjoined upon all to re-
sist the devil and he should flee from them. No:
-such were to be ashes under the soles of his feet,
as found in the last of l\Ialachi.
"1\lalachi was a favourite book with l\Ir. Pierson
as well as l\Iatthias. l\Ir. Pierson's given name
was Elijah, and he thought himself to be that prophet
Elijah, spoken of in Malachi, who was to be sent
before the great and dreadful day of the Lord-
whose office it will be to turn the heart of the fathers
to the children, and the heart of the children to the
fathers, lest the Lord come and smite the earth with
a t:urse.
" All diseases were termed devils by 1\latthias.
A blind man was possessed by a blind devil-a
lame one by a limping devil, and so on; those
. who were affiicted with deafness, toothache, head-
ache, &c.-and all these he professed to have the
power to cast out. Our family was remarkably pre-
served from sickness during his stay with us, but it
164 MATTHIAS AND
was no- doubt owing principally to the healthy at-
mosphere in which we had lived for the last fifteen
or eighteen months, the use of warm and cold baths,
and a strict attention to diet, under the instruction
of Doctor P'*'"*'*', 'one of the first physicians of
New-York city. And even after Matthias came to
reside with us, we continued to live plainly in our
family.
" He would not allow any other than boiled meats.
'iVe were forbidden roast meats. lloiled fowls, fish,
and vegetables, of the latter of which we were to have
a greater variety than now in use. Our ' table was
almost always supplied with rice, beans, potatoes,
and onions, prepared in various ways. He did not
allow pies or puddings, and but a few plain cakes.
He w_as particularly fond of fresh fruits, and allowed
us to eat them in any reasonable quantities. 'iVe
were not, however, entirely exempted from_sir.kness,
but the least complaint drew forth his censure in so
violent a manner, that we preferred to suffer in si-
lence rather than expose ourselves to the visitation
of his wrath.
" The least complaint would bring forth, in the
utmost fury, the charge that we were bringing the
de,•il into the house of God, and he would threaten
with many curses, such as, shutting up in the bot-
tomless pit,-annihilation,-or, if we would thus
encourage·the devil, Wf\ shottld be subjects of dis-
ease or leprosy. If this was our choice, he \Vould
Jet loose all the plagues upon us, but as for his
house, they should choose, with Joshua, to serve
the Lord. After hearing one of these bursts of.
IllS 11\IPOSTURES. 165
curses and threatenings, we sometimes felt that our
case was quite hopeless. Seeing our state, he
would say he could deliver us if we would ask him;
-we did ask him, and he would bid the evil spirit
depart with a very loud voice, and we oflen imagined
it did depart, when we felt delivered from 'the curses
that were likely to be inflicted.
" On one occasion in the absence of l\Ir. Folger,
in the winter of 1834, 1\Irs. Folger was taken sick,
but she was required to attend to her household du-
ties as though she was well-she was not allowed
to complain, but censured with savage severity be-
cause she looked ill. Her fever and distress, how-
ever, increased to such degree, that she could no
longer keep about-and then he indulged in threats
of torment, &c., but she was so ill as to be indif.
ferent to them-in the,excess of her pain she put a
little quilt on the back of a high chair to lean her
head against, but even this was seized by l\Iatthias,
as soon as observed, and taken from her. She was
denied any food whatsoever, but not craving it, she
supposes that abstinence from food, a supply of
coffee, which he saw fit at last to allow her, with the
bathing of her feet in warm water, produced the
effect, with the blessing of the true God, to break
her fever. She often looked to l\Ir. Pierson, who
saw her treatment, and he told her to be strong-
that there was no doubt that this was the way-and
would often encour~ her with assurances that we
were right and had the truth.
"'Ye had long been in the practice, by the advice
of our physician before named, of using warm and
166 MATTHIAS AND
cold baths, and we continued them after Matthias
and his children, and the servants introduced by
him, came into the family. It no doubt was bene-
ficial to our health, and we believe that Matthias
was himself satisfied of the fact ; for when our use
of the bath became known to him he enjoined the
practice upon all the family. It seemed to be
something entirely new to the strangers who had
joined us, and they talked much about it-but there
was no indecorous washing, as has been rumoured.
l\Irs. Folger always had the assistance of her
mother, or of a nurse who had been with us several
yea~s; and subsequently, after she left, of one or
the other of the servants introduced into the family
' by Matthias-one of them was Mrs. Galloway, and
the other the coloured woman, for a long time pre-
vious, and still a follower of him.
"1\irs. Folger always readily assisted any of the
females in turn, when it was necessary. The bath-
house was in the north wing of the building, where
the nurse and children-and, when 1\Ir. Folger was
absent, Mrs. Folger-slept. Matthias was quick
to observe and improve upon little circumstances.
Soon after his visit commenced with us, the house-
keeper,in replenishing the pitcher in his room, carried
up more water than• the pitcher would hold, and
poured the surplus in the wash-bowl. He observed
it-said his spirit had directed it, which she had
done well to obey ; and from that time he made it a
law that all must wash his or her hands the first
thing in the morning. Many instances o(this kind,
where be borrowed ideas and examples from others,
HIS lllPOSTURF.S. 167
could be named, .and we would sometimes tell him
so; but he would argue the subject quite ingeniously
..::_showing that the action was by his spirit, and that
we were indebted to him for the loan of it. Indeed,
whatever was said or done in the community, that
met his approval, was by the influence of his spirit,
sent forth by him. He could, as he said, call his
spirit out of any indiridual to give an account to
him, from any part of the world, in a moment. This
he callcd.his omnipresence. ·
" The image of gold spoken of in Daniel, he
said, represented this gorernment, and that Presi-
dent Jackson and his government were the toes of
this image-which were part iron and part clay-
that this was the last of the republican go,·ernments.
He foretold the disturbances and the result of the
elections in 1834, and that this should he but a be-
ginning of the coming down of the churches, or, as
he termed them, of the synagogues of Satan. He
advanced many strang!l ideas upon this subject, but
enough, it is thought, has been said. He pronounced
a wo upon those who should come in at the heels
of General Jackson, of which the falling in of the
bridge at the time of General Jackson's arrival at
New-York was a type. He declared this govern-
ment at an end-but of his, l\Jatthias's, government
there would be no end-for he was the " ronderful
Counsellor, the Everlasting Prince, the l\Ii~fhty God
-and where should the government be but upon
his shoulders.
"The more we were persecuted (as he called all
interference), or spoken against, the clearer he made
168 ~!ATTH!AS AND
it out that he answered to the character spoken ofin
Isaiah, who treadeth the wine-press alone, and of
the people there were none with him. His red
sash and claret clothing were worn as emblematic
of his being the character referred to in Isaiah.
His green clothes signifie~ that the Dove, or Holy
Spirit, had found a resting-place, for he had seen
the day when he, man, had not where to lay his
head. He referred to a time just before he came
to Singsing.
" He conferred upon Mr. Pierson, what he called
. the gift of the Holy Ghost in September, 1833.*'
I;Ie attributed the recovery of Mr. Pierson, from a
dangerous attack of-,:>aralysis about that time to his
extraordinary gift: but it may be attributed to the
skill and faithful attention of Dr. P **** of New
York, attended with God's blessing.
His white caps exhibited at the Police court in
New York, and subsequently exhibited in William
street to a great number, were made by his instruc-
tions, but upon no particular occasion. He called
them pale Mitres. Two of them had twelv"
e points,
and one, twenty-four, with the names in his own
writing, of the twelve Apostles, one in each point-
.I There seems to be an error here in the date, or perhaps the
ceremony was repeated. The following entry occurs in Mr.
Pierson's diary:-
JI{anday, August 12th, 1833. Mr. Matthias came to see me in
rhe afternoon. After considerable conversation, he laid his
hands upon me, and breathing upon me, said, "Receive ye the
Holy Ghost: thou art confirmed a son of God. In obedience
thou art blessed:" and many things connected with this were
oaid.-A11thor. ·
IllS IMPOSTlJRJ::S. 169
and the other twelve points, with the names of the
twelve tribes of Israel. His three-cornered hat had
upon it thirteen points of gold lace. He at first
censured the maker very much, because it had
thirteen, but after inquiry of the spirit, it was all
right. It had a green fringe on the three upper
edges, with a yellow edge, which was worn as an
emblem of Him that sitteth upon the throne, having
a rainbow round about his head. The silk linings
of his coat and cloak were of various colours, repre-
senting Joseph's coat. His rod of iron was to rule
the nations as spoken of in Revelation. His iron
chain, key, and two-edged sword were also emblems
of his character as spoken of in Revelation. His
plumb-line, as the Lord with a plumb-line in his
hand, as spoken of in Amos, vii. 7, 8.
"His carriage he called the chariot of Israel. It
seldom went abroad except when he was in it. Oc-
casionally he took with him different members of
the family-sometimes his childr£:n, at others l\Ir.
Pierson, or l\Ir. Folger, or l\Irs. Folger and one of
her children, but in no one instance did l\Irs. Folger
ride out with him unaccompanied by some third
person.
"He regarded the marriages in the Gentile world
as illegal, inasmuch as they were performed by
ministers who confessed they were sinners even in
their prayers to God, and sometimes calling them-
seiYes the chief of sinners, and yet saying in con-
clusion to the marriage ceremony, '1Yhat God hath
joined together, let no man put asunder.' He ad-
vanced many arguments to show the illegality and
p
170 brATTHIAS AND
the insufficiency of ministers, upon Bible principles,
to perform so important and holy an ordinance.
He said if he had endowed them with the Holy
Ghost, and sent them to preach his Gospel, he would
have given them power to forgive sins. By way of
illustrating, he would inquire, ' What merchant that
employs an agent to collect money, does not em-
power him to give a receipt in full.'
"Mr. and Mrs. Folger first received the doctrines
of Matthias upon the subject of marriage through
Mr. Pierson, nearly a year before Matthias came
to Singsing. As has been stated before, Mr. Pier-
son was our teacher; we were aware that his views
differed essentially from those advanced by most
Christians, yet we had known him long, and had
confidence in his piety and his experience. He
said much respecting our marriage, and upon his
(Mr. Pierson's) urgency, we were married by him,
Dec. 31, 1832. T~e following is a copy of the
note made of it at the time :-
"'Mount Pleasant, Dec. 31, 1832.
"'The marriage of Benjamin H. Folger to Ann
Disbrow, in Gospel order-Present, Elijah Pierson.
" ' B. H. F. Ann, I take you to be my lawful
wife, and I promise to cherish and protect you. I
pray God that this renewal of my pledge may be
acceptable in his sight, and that I may be kept in it.
"' .!lnn. Benjamin, I take you to be my lawful
husband, and promise to reverence, obey, and love
you.
TIIS l)rPOSTURES. 171
"• .71-fr. Pie1·son. In obedience you are blessed.
And following on to know the Lord, ye shall know
him and become the sons and daughters of the living
God.
" •Note.-\Ye were married in what is called
the Christian order in 1\Iay, 1823.-B. II. F.'
" Some time after Ma1thias came to our hons!'l,
about eight months subsequent to the above named
occurrenGe, we told him of the circumstance, and
expressed our anxiety to be legally married. if we
,had not been. He replied that it was well we had
been thus re-married, as he had declared about the
time we were married by l\Ir. Pierson, that all the
marriages in the world were illegal, and should be
destroyed. He then married us himself, much in
the same way that l\Ir. Pierson had done.
"The impression abroad that marriagPs were re-
jected by us is an error. It was regarded as a most
sacred ordinance. Matthias's objection was to the
want of the proper order in the present regulations
of the Gentile world. God, he said, had nothing to
do with the marriage of the wicked, or, to use his
words, with the marriagP of devils. Nor was it ac-
ceptable in the sight of God for an unholy person-
a devil-to marry people. Another objection wa~,
-which he instanced as a proof of error in the mat-
ter,-that matches were made without there being,
seemingly, on the part of parents and guardians any
regard paid to the question whether the parties were
suited for, or at all calculated to make each other
pappy, and that the consequence was, that marriages
172 JIIATTIUAS AND
were generally productive of unhappiness, and to
most of the female parties, it was a slate of wretch-
edness. The true plan, according to his idea, and
the one practised by the children of God, was for the
parent to choose for them in early life, to educate
them with this understanding, and at a proper age
to unite them.
''He knew all things, as he said. He had lmown
our course in life-of l\Irs. Folger's having held
prayer meetings, with other females, from house to
house, and declared that they had prayed Samuel
out of his grave the second time, who had appeared
before him in Albany.
"We did not worship him (Matthias) precisely as
many suppose. For a time after he came to us,
we continued our regular fhmily worship in the
usual manner. He joined in it so far as to shut his
eyes when others were in prayer, but would never
kneel with others. After a while, he objected to
others kneeling, or practising closet prayer,-that
God had made man upright and did not require him
to kneel-nor was the spirit pleased with a person's
going into a dark corner of the house to thank God
in secret. God loved light and hated darkness.
That the true method was to thank the spirit of God
in the person who bestowed a blessing, for we might
be sure the devil would bestow no blessing on us.
'We did not cease to pray, but our prayers were
mostly ejaculatory. )Ve always addressed God by
the various names furnished by the Scriptures, such
as the Great Jehovah-the God of Abraham, Isaac,
HIS ll!IPOSTORES. 173
and Jacob-the Almighty God-Spirit of Truth-
Kin~ of kings and Lord of Lords.
"He knew our sincerity and purpose of heart to
serve God, and that we had occasionally many
doubts, and he laboured earnestly at such seasons
until he had removed them. ·we have no doubt
that God has seen our afflictions and witnessed our
sorrows. Our confidence has been truly in God.
He has delivered us from these errors, and, we trust,
will yet deliver us from all their consequences.
" He had the command of the house as our head,
or teacher, and 'Father,' and spent much time in
teaching !Ur. Pierson and l\Ir. Folger how to rule
their households when we should become separate
families, which must soon take place, to give him
an opportunity of teaching others ; for there were
many to whom he had preached, nearly ready to
eome into the kingdom.
a Mrs. Folger was called 'l\Iother' by nearly all
the family. Matthias directed this for the reasons
that she conducted the aflairs of the house-pro-
vided clothing-washed and combed the children,
and made them every way comfortable, which was
a hard task, for there were fifteen persons in the
family, and there were only three females, including '
l.Hrs. Folger. But the evil was, that he always
took the meal time to preach, and generally prPached
so long that it was very difficult to find suffit'ient
time to get through the duties. He often detainPd
the breal,fast-table until ten or eleven o'clock in the
morning-say three to four hours ; he would spend
.ll'lveral hours at the dinner-table ; and the supper
P2
174 HATTHIAS AND
(as the third meal was always called) table until
eight, nine, ten, or eleven o'clock at night. The
house was required to be kept in complete order,
and the meals ready at stated hours. Sometimes,
when the detention had been great by his preaching,
he would undertake to impart a double portion of
the necessary spirit ·for the occasion, which those
who performed the duties fancied they had, for they
often accomplished more in a given time than they
supposed it possible to do under other circumstances.
The boys very often rendered assistance, as they
knew there would be loud censure if all things were
not in readiness in season. The employment of the
boys, including three of his own, pleased him, as
it fitted them, according to his views, for the office
of Levites. "\Ye were bound to love each other as
we loved ourselves, and always to warn a brother
or sister of danger when any of them were seen to
break any-of the rules of the house. He whipped
\his own children severely, several times, with a cow-
(11-'\ nlide whip, until some one would stand responsible
\\ \.
1
for them. Mrs. Folger, in the absence of .Mr.
/
Folger and Mr. Pierson, became responsible t~e
first time for the two youngest, but he gave notice
that he would not accept a female mediator after
that time.
"He was anxious to have his family with us for
some time before they finally carne. 1\fr. Folger
was unwilling to go for them, and suggested that
l\'Ir. Matthias himself should go, with the carriage
and horses, but he declined for reasons known only
to himself. .At length l\lr. Matthias's and l\Ir. Pier-
IIIS !~!POSTURES. 175
son's continued urgency prevailed, and 1\Ir. Folger
took his son with him and went to Albany, with the
carriage, for his wife and children. He found them
in reduced circumstances, and barely able to obtain a
support. lie gave l\Irs. l\Iatthews whatever means
she asl,ed for, to clothe the children with warm
clothing entirely-bought several articles and pre-
sented them, and gave her money for her own pur-
poses. l'llr. Folger was instmcted by l\Iatthias
before he left home, as he understood him, in case
any thing should prevent any of the family from
coming before the spring, to have them comfortably
pro1·ided for there until that time ; and in conformity
with this direction, l'tlr. Folger promised to remit l\Irs.
l\Iatthews thirty dollars on the first of each month, for
the support of herself and youngest child, about five
years old-as she determined not to go herself, or
send the youngest child, until spring; but on report-
ing the promise to l\Iatthias, he said he had been
misunderstood, and totally forbade any money being
sent her-that she was a wicked, lying devil, un-
worthy of any favour. 1\Irs. :Matthews gave into
1\lr. F.'s charge four of the children-a daughter
and three sons. The daughter had been married
about a month previous, to a young man by the
name of Laisdell ; but for some reason, never ex-
plained, this was concealed from l\Ir. Folger by the
mother and the husband, or he would have felt it his
duty to have had the husband accompany the children,
or to decline taking the daughter. l'tlr;o. Laisdell
mentioned her marriage in the course of conversa-
tion on the journey. The boys were somewhat
17G ~IATTJU AS AND
ungovernable, and having been rather exposed at
Albany, their manners were not as good as could
have been desired, so that with four boys (including
his own son) and Mrs. Laisdell, he found it quite a
burdensome expedition, and excited much remark
on the road, which was truly unpleasant.
"Soon after the arrival at Zion Hill-as the resi-
dence at Mount Pleasant was called-Mr. Matthias
sent l\Ir. Pierson to bring his daughter to him. The
father and daughter were left in a room together.
\Ve heard him whip her, and her cries, and we sup-
pose he whipped her with a cowhide, although we did
not know that he had one-it sounded as though he
struck her three times. He then sent for Mrs. Folger
-told her to furnish Mrs. Laisdell with a dress, as
she then had on a habit sent to Albany for her by Mrs.
I<olger. Matthias likewise directed another suit of
clothes to be pmpared for each of his boys. Mrs.
Folger then took Mrs. L<lisdell to a room, assisted
in dressing her, and washed and dressed the chil-
dren. The family then dined, and the afternoon
and evening were spent in listening to Matthias's
conversation or teaching. Mrs. Laisdell appeared
cheerful, and answered all her father's questions
respectfully. The next morning, after breakfast,
l\Ir. Matthias called for Mrs. Folger to come to the
parlour, where he was conversing with Mr. Pierson,
and told her to go to Mrs. Laisdell and ask her how
she felt towards her father, and to let him know-
she went accordingly, and found Mrs. Laisdell in
her room sitting by a window. Mrs. Folger took
a seat beside her, made some observations upon the
liiS IMPOSTURES.
scenery in view, and then asked her if she felt happy
and contented? l\Irs. Laisdell replied that the place
was a pleasant one, and there was every thing there
calculated to make her happy ; but the idea of living
with, or being under the control of her father, who
was a tyrant, would imbittcr all her days. l\lrs.
Folger asked her if it was not possible she was
mistaken-that she thought him a very holy, en-
lightened, but persecuted man. l\Irs. Laisdell re-
plied that she knew him better than we did, and, for
her part, she had rather die than live with him.
l\Irs. Folger told her she should be careful how she
rejected the instruction her father was, as she
thought, capable of giving. l\lrs. Laisdell then
asked if she could write to Albany 1 l\Irs. Folger
replied, that she did not know, that she could ask
her father, who could furnish her with pen and paper,
as he had the key of the desk. She requested l\Irs.
Folger to ask for the articles, and she went to do
so. He was still sitting in the parlour with l\Ir.
Pierson. She asked him if l\1rs. Laisdell could
have writing materials to write to her mother. He
made no reply to this, hut asked what her feelings
were towards him. l\Irs. Folger replied that l\Irs.
Laisdell wished to return to her mother, as she had
promi~ed to; but he exacted of l\lrs. Folger all she
had said, which she rPpeated-not anticipating any
farther correction, as she was not accustomed to such
scenes. l\Jrs. Folger then left them to attend to
the duties of the house, and in a few minutes he
brought his daughter into the room which she was
putting in order. It would seem that she had de-
178 MATTHIAS AND
nied to him what she had said to Mrs. Folger; for
he inquired, on entering the room, ' did she not say
she had rather die than live with me ?'-to which
1\lrs. Folger replied, 'Yes, sir.' He then took a
cowhide-whip, which must have been concealed
about his person, and said, 'take death with every
stroke.' Mrs. Folger stood in alarm, not knowing
what to do, but to stand still. She knew, too, that
l\Ir. Pierson was in the next room, but he did not
interfere. But :Mrs. Laisdell appeared to know her
father, and know what to do, for she first held up
one hand above her head, and then both, upon
which he immediately ceased whipping her. Mrs. ·
Folger felt much sympathy for her, but dared not to
express it-she put her arms round her neck and
kissed her-washed her wounded shoulders and put
sweet oil on them. 1\ir. Matthias appeared very
kiud to her always after this; but he observed to
1\lr. Pierson at the time, and to the family afterward,
that her mother's spirit was in her, but he had cast
it out, which seemed to be a confirmation of our
then belief, for she manifested from that time, as
long as she was with us, a pleasant spirit. .!\Irs.
l\Iatthews was represented by her husband as a very
wicked woman. Sometimes we would remember
Mrs. Laisdell's words respecting her father, which,
taken in connection with Mrs. l\Iatthews's state-
ment to Mr. Folger, while he was at Albany, in
which she mentioned some extremely brutal treat-
ment, would excite doubts. But this was repeated
to Matthias, and he denied it entirely, and pro-
notmced her one of the greatest of liars, whos.ll
IllS IMPOSTURES. 179
word could not be taken for any thing. l\Ir. Pier-
son would say, when the subject was mentioned to
him, that 'Joshua, the high-priest, must be found
with Satan at his right hand to resist him, as de-
clared in the third chapter of Zechariah.' l\Irs.
Folger has seen l\Irs. l\latthews since our separa-
tion from l\Iatthias, and she appeared to be an
agreeable woman. Her accounts to l\Irs. Folger
of her sufferings with l\Ir. Matthias, awal<ened her
sympathies for her, and she expressed her regret to
1\lrs. l\Iatthews that she had not come to Zion Hill
when sent for.
" l\Iatthias once whipped the coloured woman
(Isabella) under the following circumstances. She
was quite unwell, which l\Irs. }"olger observed, and
asked l\Iatthias, who came into the kitchen, if she
might lie down, a request that was granted. She,
however, did not avail herself of the permission,
but sat down by the kitchen fire. l\Iatthias again
visited the kitchen within an hour or two-found
one of his sons in some mischief, which he cor-
rected him for, and the coloured woman undertook
to intercede, which was offensive to l\Iatthias, as it
was a female intercessor, possessed of a sick devil
withal-upon which he quickly lashed her with his
cowhide, saying, ' Shall a sick devil undertake to
dictate to me 1' She then denied that she was sick,
and was called up stairs to testify that the sick devil
had departed, and appeared well from that time.
' Ve presume we should all have submitted to stripes
in time, for he taught us that if we deserved them it
would be a lighter punishment than the spirit would
180 ~IATTHIAS AND
inflict commissioned by him, and, indeed, we would
rather have taken stripes sometimes, than hear his
long vollies of threats, and curses, and his swearing
by himself, for there was none greater, that they
should all come to pass at his word.
"For the most trifling offence of one of the chil-
dren the whole family must needs be summoned, and
each one testify if all had been done to prevent the
evil, and to offer an opportunity for some one to in-
tercede for the transgressor who was exposed to his
wrath. Sometimes he would in these cases impli-
cate two or three, and at others, the whole family.
He managed these cases very ingeniously: he would
discern and trace the spirit from one to another until
he could fix it in the one that was strongest in the
faith and could best bear rPproof, upon whom he
would vent himself. He could save all, however
deeply implicated, when asked for salvation. Some-
times he was obliged to be responsible for his own
sons, for we were at times wearied of him, his doc-
trines, and his family, for his boys took advantage
of his mode of government, and none were willing
to become responsible for them. But this he would ,
get along with : he would go into a state of extreme
suffering,-apparently, his nerves would become con-
tracted,-he would appear to weep,-and then his
darling attribute, justice, would be satisfied. When
he became tirecl of this, as we now suppose he did,
and the same difficulties occurred with his sons, he
adopted another plan ;-he would hand his two-
edged sword to the injured party, to 'cut off his
(Matthias's) hand~ or arm, or to wound him, as much
HIS In!POSTURES. 181
us would satisfy the party, but as no one was dis~
posed to do this, their only course would be to for-
give.
" In answer to the weariness we expressed at
times, we were told by l\latthias and l\Ir. Pierson
that judgment must begin at the house of God, and
they only who endured to the end could be saved.
'Ve were encouraged, too, with their assurances that
the time was 'short-only three years and a half-
when our eternity of peace would begin. lie like-
wise taught that when the spirit reproved evils in
the house of God, it reproved for them in the whole
world. Our advantage was to hear his instructions
nnd rid ourselves of all those spirits that had sinned
in any age, and prepare for the great day of ac-
counts ; for he would call every spirit to an account,
nnd whatever flesh embodied any spirit that had
sinned, from the days of Adam to that time, it should
suffer in the flesh in which it was found.
"He undertook to give us all the particulars ~f
the · judgment day-the total destruction of the
wicked on the earth, and the disposal of all things.
"The preaching of the Gospel was, to feed the
hungry, clothe the naked, &c.-that he had told us
in his word, his people would be at his right hand~
his enemies on his left ; and his language would be
to those on his right, ' I was an hungered, and ye
gave me meat: I was thirsty and ye gave me drink :
I was a stranger, and ye took me in : naked, and
ye clothed me.'
"He often spoke of state-prisons, jails, and other
places of confinement, and testified of the wicked·
Q
182 MATTHIAS AND
ness and oppression he had witnessed in thest~
places at Albany and elsewhere. He said that of-
fenders seldom, if ever, obtained forgiveness of the
Gentile world, however sincere their repentance-
but, that though their bodies were confined, they
could not lock up the spirit,* for it went abroad, took
possession of others, and committed the same
depredations-but he, l\Iatthias, could control the
spirit.
"1\Ir. Pierson and l\Ir. Folger, after due con-
sideration, determined, long before they knew 1\Iat-
thias, to give themselves and all they possessed to
the service of God. Their only object was to as-
certain in what way God would have them employed,
and employ the means he had given them, and they
were prepared to do the will of God.
"1\Ir. Pierson had been long engaged in mer-
cantile business in Pearl-street. He was, probably,
one of the best of merchants in his line of business.
No one ever stood higher for truth and uprightness,
and perfect fair dealing, than he did-and deservedly
so. :Mr. Pierson retired from his Pearl-street busi-
ness in January, 1832. 1\Ir. Folger, after being
engaged in business in Pearl-street many years, re-
tired from that business at the close of 1832. He
purchased, a few months previous, the convenient
mansion and farm, known as the Heartt Place,
situated on the east bank of tho Hudson, town of
:Mount Pleasant, ·westchester county, New-York,
about thirty miles from town. He had rented and
occupied the place from the month of :May prior.
• Motthias, then, had probably read Cowper -.Author.
IllS IMPOSTURES. 183
"In the spring and summer of 1833, whenever
he went to New-York, he boarded in the lower part
of the city; but having joined l\Ir. Pierson in
several business operations, entirely new to both of
them, it was necessary to see him often, and he
made it a rule to see him once or twice a week;
and at length, at l\Ir. Pierson's request, he consented
to furnish one of l\Jr. Pierson's bed-rooms himself,
and occupy it for his lodgings when in town. He
occasionally breakf.'lsted with l\Ir. Pierson. This
arrangement afforded more time for conversation on
the subjects of religion and business. This was the
second time that l\Ir. Folger had taken up his par-
tial residence with ~lr. Pierson, whenever he came
to town. The first time was in the winter of 1832
and 1833, when he accepted l\Ir. Pierson's invita-
tion, upon the condition of his paying him fo1:1r dol-
lars per week, which he considered sufficient pay-
ment, as he never stayed all the week, and always
dined down town. This arrangement, howevPr,
continued but for a short period, when l\Ir. Folger
went down town to board, and continued until his
return, at l\Ir. Pierson's solicitation, in the summer
of 1833, as mentioned above. Previous to this,
l\lr. Pierson had occasionally visited l\Ir. Folger's
residence at l\lount Pleasant, with his little daughter,
and as we sincerely respected him, and honoured
him as an experienced Christian, and our teacher,
the visits appeared to give him pleasure. They
certainly did us.
" Matthias, as has been before stated, came to
Singsing about the twentieth of August, 1833. In
consequence of his (Matthias's) complaints of his
184 l\IATTIIIAS AND
suffering and poverty, 1\Ir. Pierson and Mr. Folger
agreed to unite in the expense of allowing him
two dollars per day for his support. lie, how-
ever, now said that he ought not to live in a hired
house subjPct to the control of others : he proposed,
and Mr. Pierson and Mr. Folger agreed, to pur-
_chase a lot, and build him a house in Greenwich
village. He must have the house built of stone,
for bricks were particularly offensive to the Spirit,
as the children of God had been much oppressed by
the Egyptians in the making of them. This was
agreed to,-but before any thing was done in it, he
discovered that l\Ir. Folger had -purchased the man-
sion he then owned on the precise day on which the
Gentiles had broken up the kingdom at Mr. l\J.'s
house in New-York, and he regarded it as the
influence of the Spirit providing a residence for
him. Here the matter rested for a time.
"l\Ir. Pierson, after a severe fit of illness, in
August and September, 1833, with an attack of the
paralysi~, came to l\Iount Pleasant, to l\Ir. Folger's,
about October of that year. He soon recovered
his usual health.
"There was now continued conversation about
the Father's living in a hired house, or in a son's
house ;-it was like the error abroad in the Gentile
world,-they were all continually preaching about
the Son's kingdom, when the truth was, it was the
!•.ather's kingdom that was to be set up, and not the
Son's. There was no end to this subject. Mr.
Pierson and Mr. Folger had frequent conversations
upon it, :md it was finally agreed between them that
HIS lliPOSTURES. 185
1\Ir. Folger should give l\Iatthias a deed of the said
mansion at the joint expense of l\Ir. P. and l\Ir. F.,
and at the same time both should give him the con-
trol of their furniture-1\Ir. Pierson's in New-York,
and lUr. Folger's at l\Iount Pleasant. About the
first of November, 18:13, l\Ir. Folger obtained a
blank deed at Singsing, filled it up, wrote the cer-
tilicate of acknowledgment, so that the commis-
~ioner before whom it was acknowledged, l\Ir.
GH'~<'~<'I< of Singsing, had only to attach his signa-
ture as commissioner and witness, which was done.
It is probable, however, that the high hand of l\lat-
thins in the village about this time, where he in-
dulged in calling all devils who disagreed with him,
together with the circumstance of l\Ir. F.'s having
bought a blank deed, induced the suspicion that l\Ir.
F. had conveyed to l\Iatthias all his property. Such
a report, at any rat<', became current, and fearing
it might be prejudicial to his business operations,
which his new business with lUr. Pierson had ex-
tcnd<"d so as to expose him to danger in the then
pinching times in the mercantile world, he repre-
sented it, and it was to be considered annulled. He,
accordingly, upon meeting the rumour, as he very
soon did at New-York, assured all his friends that
his property wa~ entirely in his control, and that it
should continue to be so. His credit, however, had
received a severe wound-the times became more
and more trying in the mercantile world-he had
over-imported for a business concern-there seemed
to be a cur•e resting upon every thing undertaken
with ::Hr. Pierson for the support of •the liingdom.'
Q2
186 liAT'fliiAS AND
as it was called-and notwithstanding l\Ir. Pierson's
encouragement that the kingdom operations would
soon react, return some tenfold and some a hundred-
fold, yet he saw that unless he could get through
the winter and spring of 1834, he should probably
be totally ruined. lie believed himself abundantly
able to carry all through-1\Ir. Pierson often ex-
amined and advised-and 1\Ir. I<'. made great ef-
forts ; but in the mean time, his credit had become
so deeply wounded, and the times so seriously se-
vere, that, after struggling against every thing, he
found himself compelled to suspend payment at the
close of March, 1834. He, however, still believed
that he would pay all he owed and save a handsome
property, as he showed a large surplus, although
much extended. llut the continued depression in
the times, with the severe loss attending all the ope-
rations commenced with 1\Ir. Pierson for the benefit
of • the kingdom,' together with the large sacrifices
he was compelled to make in closing several'
branches of legitimate mercantile business, not only
swept off all his own property, but also the property
he had belonging to 1\Irs: Folger's estate, and re-
ceived in trust for her individual use from that of her
father. This was, however, unavoidable, as the law
would not allow of its being protected, and we had
no wish to be guilty of any cheating towards any
one.
" It is proper to give here a copy of the letter
which l\Ir. Pierson addressed to Mr. Folger, upon
the occasion of the execution of the deed of the
Mount Pleasant mansion on the 2d N ovember,
IllS IMPOSTURES. 187
1833, and likewise to mention that under one pre-
tence und another, l\latthias withheld the deed from
1\Ir. F olger, until full eight months after the time it
was annulled by his agreement.
(coPY.)
"' llfolint Pleasant, Nov. 2, 1833.
1' '.1.llr. Benjamin H. Folger,
"' StR,
"'Your letter of this date I have received, which infonns me
that you have, in agreement with our verbal understandmg, exe·
cuted a df•ed of your mansion and farm, lately known as the
Heartt place, to 1\fr. Robert ~!at.thias, for the setting up andes-
tablishing" the Father's House." This act has my cordial ap-
probation, in:1~much as it ts intended t.o advance the establish.
mcnt of the kin~rlom of God. I agree to bear one half of the
ch~rge, and hereby authonze you to debit my account with my
proportion, deducting the same from any moneys you may re.
ceive of mine, and charging me with one hal f of the mortgage,
wheu you mar see fit to discharge it, together with the interest,
making a tota debrt to me of from three thousand seven hundred
and fllty, to four thousand dollars, for this purpose.
"' Yours with esteem,
~~' ELIJAH PI ERSON.'
" This matter being, as before said, annulled, and
1\Ir. Folger's difficulties and embarrassments call-
ing him to N ew-York and elsewhere much of the
1
time, afforded opportunities for 1\Iatthias to make
other arrangements with 1\Ir. Pierson. Early in
. 1\Iarch following, l\fr. F. gave 1\lr. Pierson, at his
request, a deed of his place at-Mount Pleasant, and
a hill of sale of his furniture. Mr. Pierson imme-
diately conveyed both to Matthias; but it has since
been obtained for 1\lr. Pierson's daughter, through
the l <'~!;al proceedings instituted bv the attornies of
the estate for that purpose.
188 l\lATTl!IAS AND
"·when l\Ir. Folger suspended payment, he owed
about two hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
Soon after this, :Matthias, in presence of l\Ir. Pier-
son and llfrs. Folger, undertook a very ingenious
argument to show that all the property in the world
belonged to the children of God-that all the Gen-
tiles had was, in fact, stolen from God's people-
and that there could be no nal indebtedness to the
Gentile world.
" The object of this was very plain. Mr. Pier-
son made no reply; but 1\Ir. F. immediately said
to him, that however true it was, yet, for himself, he
had committed himself to the Gentile world-so to
call it-that all his property was pledged to them,
until every debt he owed them was paid-and he
should certainly persevere until this was done.
Matthews had evidently thrown this suggestion out
to make a trial, and perceiving that it would not
take, he at once changed his ground, and pretended
to regard the course Mr. F. decided upon as the
true one.
"In the spring of 1834, the excitement was so
strong that Matthias could no longer pass up and
down in the steamboat with safety. Indeed, the
probability is, that, but for the protection which Mr.
and Mrs. Folger afforded him, he would have been
severely handled before that time, owing to his high-
handed impudence in pronouncing every one a devil
who refused to receive his doctrines. The conse-
quence was, that whenever he visited New-York, he
came with the carriage and horses. In l\Iay of
that year, on the way up, about twenty miles from
HIS ll.\1P06 TURES. 189
New-York, his son driving, one of the horses be-
came troublesome, and after the difficulty had con-
tinued some time, l\Ir. Folger concluded to take the
reins : they were then about to descend a steep hill ;
the fractious horse became exceedingly troublesome,
and finally broke the pole of the carriage. This ac-
cident threw the carriage upon the horses,-they ran
with great fury, lore the harness to pieces, and upset
the carriage, but with the exception of l\Ir. Folger,
who was stunned for a few moments, no one was
hurt. It was a most providential escape. This
perilous incident occurred three miles from Yonkers.
l\Ir. Folger endeavoured to get some of the farmers'
wagons to take them on, but could not succeed.
He at last obtained wagons fi·om Yonkers, to which
place they returned and lodged there that night.
Early in the morning 3Ir. l<'olger made arrange-
ments for a conveyance to take all to l\Iount Pleas-
ant, but l\Ir. l\Iatthias refused to ride unless he
could have the ordering of the arrangement. This
was a very petty business, and l\Ir. Folger en-
deavoured to persuade him to ride, offering him an
entire wagon for himself; but he refused, and was
left to walk the fifteen miles on foot. l\Ir. Pierson,
however, thought it best to send a saddle-horse for
him, which met him about two miles from our resi-
dence.
"On Sunday, June I, 1834, l\lr. Folger was de-
tained at New-York by unavoidable circumstances.
The rest of the family were at l\Iount Pleasant.
He became very much concerned respecting Mat-
thias's doctrines, and after contending for a while, -
190 n!ATTHIAS AND
he sought relief in prayer. At length he concluded
to go and hear the preaching of the Rev. l\Ir. Du-
boi8, the pastor of the Reformed Dutch church in
Franklin-street, whom he had always respected and
esteemed as a minister earnestly and honestly en-
gaged in doing good. His sermon (as they gene-
rally are) was very powerful-JUr. F. was entirely
overcome, and although he endeavoured to resist
it, yet he could not avoid weeping and exposing his
exercises to others. He sat in the pew of his
moth~r-in-law,-went from the church to her house,
and told her privately of his fears that we were all
in error. In the afternoon he attended the Rev.
l\Ir. White's church, in Allen-street. On the fol-
lowing morning, he went to Mount Pleasant, intend-
ing to withdraw his family from there·. The first
person he met was Matthias, who approached him
with the offer of his hand, but it was n·jected, and
he was rudely thrust aside; upon which Matthias
stepped briskly into his room, obtained his sword,
and beaded l\Ir. Folger in the ball. This enraged
1\Ir. F. to a high degree; he seized l\Iatthias by his
throat, carried him back into the sitting room, and
thrust him upon the settee. He has always been
unable to account for his strength on that occasion,
for he has not usually half the strength of Matthias.
Matthias, however, is a very great coward, and it is
probable that his fears destroyed all his strength.
Nothing but the interference of others on that oc-
casion, probably, prevented such a treatment of the
impostor as he merited. l\Ir. Pierson, and all others,
protested against his conduct as being wrong, and
IllS DIPOSTURES, 191
as the consequence of the influence of an untrue
spmt. l\Ir. Pierson invited him to have a private
interview with him-repeated his experience, his
close examination of 1\Iatthias and his principles,
and concluded by a renewed expression of his entire
nnd perfect confidence in the truth and uprightness
of .\latthias and his doctrines. The difficulty was
not, however, easily settled ; but :Matthias, seeing his
danger, !adopted a mild course) We all sat up till
midnight in conversation ; -and, in conclusion, l\Ir.
Folger was induced to believe he had committed a
deciued error, in a fit of anger, while under the in-
fluence of an nntrue spirit, and the storm was nearly
hushed. It, however, should be mentioned, that a
rumour of difficulty had reached Singsing, and sup-
posing their services might be useful, several of l\lr.
Folger's friends came down at a late hour in tho
evening, and through l\Ir. R*'-****' announced to
l\Tr. F. that l\Ir. F**'***, the postmaster, Colonel
'"***'**, l\Ir. E*******, i\lajor S***, and several
others of his friends were near tho ho~se, willing to
render him any aid he might need. Upon Mr. F.'s
assurance that all was quiet, that he was thankful
for their kindness, and that he would be in tho vil-
la~e early the next day, they took their leave. The
next day he met at the village a number of persons,
and, among others, the district attorney, i\Ir. N*****·
l\Ir. F. had a private interview with several truly
worthy persons, and expressed to them precisely his
views of l\Iatthias and his doctrines. They proba-
bly perceived l\Ir. F.'s deep delusion, and considered
it useless to do any thing more at that moment.
192 MATTlliAS AND
" l\Ir. E*-l'il'i'**'**, however, one of his friends1
·said to him that, after duly considering all ·circum-
stances, he had fully determined that Matthias should
no longer stay there,-that unless he was out of that
house before four o'clock of that day, he would· him·
self show him how they dealt with rogues where he
had been. This was reported to Matthias,-he be-
came much alarmed,-took his beard off, and left
there that night, June 3d, for New-York city, where
he arrived the next morning-, and put up at the City
Hotel. He said to Mr. Pierson and Mr. Folger
before he left, that the persecution had now become
so strong that it would be proper for him to change
his name, and that he would address us from some
·--.. point south under the name of David Abraham.
He did not, however, go south, but in a few days
afterward took up his residence in Third-street,
New-York, where he remained until the twenty-
sixth day of July, two days before Mr. Pierson's
last illness, with the exception that he made one fly-
ing visit to Singsing and immediately back, with a
carriage and four horses, and attended by two ser•
vants, in the month of June.
" As has been previously stated, Mr. Pierson
came to Mount Pleasant in October, 1833, after his
recovery from an attack of paralysis, and appeared
to recover his usual health. About January follow-
ing, however, he had a slight return of it, and from
that time forward he would now and then be seized
with a fit, and fall. As the spring advanced, the fits
returned as often as once a week, so that it was
generally deemed best for Mr. Folger's little boy to
HIS II\IPOSTURE!I, 193
accompany him, whenever he was out about the
premises, to report to Matthias if he was attacked.
The attacks were generally slight, and he would be
walking about in from half an hour to an hour after-
ward. l\Ir. Pierson expressed himself satisfied that
he should overcome them,-he regarded them as
the last struggle of the devil with him, and he was
satisfied he should master him. Matthias would '
often make him arise and walk before the fit was
broken, which l\lr. Pierson would be pleased to hear
when he came out of the fit. He was not gene-
rally aware of an approaching attack hy any un•
pleasant sensation, but sometimes he would say that
he felt as though he should have a fit, upon which
l\Iatthias would tell him to resist it, and as he gene•
rally escaped on those occasions, it induced the be·
lief that he had effectually resisted.
" l\lr. Pierson's sickness, which terminated in his
death, commenced on the afternoon of Tuesday,
July 29, 1834. The evening-say twenty-four
hours-before, he ate freely of some blackberries,
picked by l\Iatthias and his youngest son, and pre-
pared with sugar for the table, as is supposed, by
the coloured woman. The persons at the table at
the time were l\Ir. Pierson, lUrs. Folger, Catharine,
and l\Iatthias. The latter served out the black-
berries at that time, as he invariably did every de-
scription of food at the meals. lie helped l\Ir.
Pierson, l\Irs. Folger, and Catharine to the berries,
but none to himself. l\Ir. Pierson ate two ordinary
sized dessert plates full : Catharine one: l\1rs. Fol-
ger tasted of them ; remarked that they were not
R
194 MATTHIAS AND
perfectly ripe and sweet ; and, owing to the state of
her health, which had been feeble for many years,
declined them, lest they should disagree with her.
Her appetite, from her long suffering, had become
completely disciplined, and notwithstanding l\Iat-
thias's frequent urging and commanding her to eat
certain descriptions of food, she had not faith to do
it. This was a point that l\Iatthias endeavoured to
overcome, but never succeeded. He took no no-
tice of the remark of l\Irs. Folger that the black-
berries were not ripe and sweet, making his own
meal of dry toast and coffee. He preached during
the meal, as was his usual practice. Near the
close of the meal, l\Irs. Folger observed that l\Iat-
thias had eaten no berries, and as soon as a suf-
ficient pause in his speaking permitted, mentioned
the circumstance, and inquired if he thought he had
no plate, as his plate was a short distance from him.
He immediately drew back from the table in anger,
saying the sons were honoured and the daughters
blessed themselves in the Father's house, but the
Father did not receive the honour that was his due.
He then continued preaching with severity,-more
particularly to l\Ir. Pierson,-until a late hour of
the night. This was .l\Ionday ;-the next day,
Tuesday, l\1r. Pierson went into the field to assist
in making hay,-picking and eating blackberries.
In the afternoon, at about four o'clock, while en-
gaged in salting tJ1e hay, he was taken with one of
his fits, in the barn. Anthony, a German labourer,
was with him at the time, and Mr. Folger's little son,
ten years of age. According to Matthias's instruc-
HIS !~!POSTURES. 195
ticms, no one was allowed to touch him in such
cases until he himself should come. Being soon
called by the little boy, he made l\Ir. Pierson walk
to the house, although he had not as yet revived,
-they entered the house by way of the kitchen
stairs, and i\lr. l'ierson was overtaken by another
fit before he could be taken up the stairs, and
from which he did not, as usual, recover his
sPnses. While !\Irs. Folger was engaged wash-
ing his head with cold water, he had another very
hard fit, and after this he began to vomit and have
free evacuations from his bowels, which continued
all night. Several severe fits followed successively
during the night. !\Irs. Folger and l\Ir. Pier~on's
daughter were with him until a late hour, and the
coloured woman continued with him all night. Mrs.
Folger vi>ited the room frequently during the night
to see that he was properly attended to.
"Matthias expressed displeasure that l\Ir. Pierson
encouraged the sick spirit, and when l\Ir. Pierson
began to vomit, he said he did not know but that he
should vomit himself if he staid there a minute.
He then retired to his room, and did not see l\Ir.
Pierson until after breakfast the next morning.
"On the same evening, but some hours afterward,
Catharine (who had al~o partaken of the black-
berries the day before) was also taken ill. She had
severe pain in the bowel~, and nausea at the
stomach, and was in all respects affected in like
manner with l\Tr. Pierson, excepting the absence of
fit~, and the retention of her senses. She, too, was
attended by 1\Irs. Folger and the coloured woman.
1\Iatthias, upon being made acquainted with both
196 MATTHIAS A!iD
cases, on the next (Wednesday) morning, was very
angry, and accused those who nursed and attended
them of being necessary to bringing in and harbour-
ing the sick devil in the house of God, and de-
nounced many curses upon such, so that they feared
they should incur the curses every time they offered
any service to :Mr. Pierson. "When 1\Irs. Folger
first visited Mr. Pierson, on 'Wednesday morning,
she asked him how he felt, and if he was aware of
the critical and trying night he had passed through.
He was sensible, said he was aware of having had
several fits, and knew what had been done for him.
:Mrs. Folger then asked him if he would have some
toast-water 1 he replied, no, but some coffee, with a
look that conveyed to Mrs. Folger the idea that he
did not wish any thing like medicine, or the nursing
of sickness. On this point-that sickness was a
devil and could be resisted and cast out-lHr. Pier-
son was, as he had been for a long time, very
decided, and those who knew his peculiar disposition,
well know that it was of no use to contend with
him. Mrs. Folger took him some coffee, which he
drank, but threw up immediately, as he did every
thing he received into his stomach that day. Mrs.
Folger placed a pitcher of toast-water in his room,
notwithstanding his forbidding look, just mentioned,
·that he might take it if he thought proper, or that
Matthias might give it to him if he saw fit to do so ;
but it remained untouched. Catharine took nothing
but toast-water that day-rested and dieted for
several days, unobserved by Matthias, and recovered.
On Thursday Mr. Pierson was up, walked out, and
IllS D!POSTURF.S. 197
partook of the meals at the table, prepared for the
family-as he did likewise on Friday and Saturday,
but he would occa,ionally have slight paralytic at-
tach ; sometimes at the table, when l\latthias
would lead him to his room and close the door.
l\lr. Pierson seemed to think this all right. He did
not appear to lose his senses. If he was spoken to
dunng these three days, his attempts to speak in
reply would produce a slight convulsive attack-
whereupon l\Iatthias would harshly censure the per-
son speaking, for bringing the evil spirit upon him.
The consequence was, that all feared to speak or
offf'r Sl'rvice. As l\J r. Pil'r~on was stronger in the
faith, and deeper initiated into the mysteries of the
kingdom than other~, he required as strict obedience
to the doctrine~ as ::\[atthias did, and it was under-
stood as his wish that directions for any thing must
come from l\[atthias only. On Saturday evening,
lUrs. Folger was in the kitchen, engaged in washing
the children. The coloured woman was likewise
there, engaged in baking. Elizabeth, l\lr. Pierson's
daughter, came there with a request to the coloured
woman to go up and wash her father's feet; the
colomed woman remarked that she was busy and
could not leave. l\lrs. Folger asked Elizabeth if
she could not w]!sh h~r father's feet if. Isabella (the
coloured woman) took up the water? she replied,
yes, but that her father wished to speak to Isabella ;
the latter then said, she supposed she must go, but
that her work required her attention. l\lrs. Folger
inquired of Elizabeth if l\Ir. Matthias was with her
father, and learned from her that he was. l\lrs.
R2
198 lilATTHIAS Al'ID
Folger then directed the coloured woman to take up
the water, and ask 1\ir. l\Iatthias and l\1r. Pierson
if she could be excused, but she did not return.
When Mrs. Folger had finished her duties in the
kitchen, which had detained her some time after the
children had retired, she carne up and seated herself
at a window in the hall.
River.
I
I
wiodow.
Front Parlour. I
1
1
-So-,-,b-,-v-;og-.
7
1- ~ N"lb w;••·l
door. Back doOr door
~~~ ~.,.... I. ,. I
'-------'- II:
~-
New-York Road.
As she passed the parlour door, immediately oppo-
site the door of the south wing, which l\Ir. Pierson
occupied, she obsen·ed ):Ur. Pierson, l\Ir. l\1atthias,
and the coloured woman in conversation. Mr.
l\Ialthias soon aflerward came into the hall, and
continued pacing it until the coloured woman came
out, and, when half-way between . the parlour d9or
and kitchen stairway, 1\ir. l\Iatthias and the coloured
woman stopped and conversed in a low whisper for
EllS DIPOSTURES. 199
·about half-an-hour. Matthias then pointed to 1\Irs.
Folger and motioned to her-she did not know
what he meant, but concluded they wished her to go
away, and she went into the north wing; but as she
was not sure this was the case, and not suspecting
any cause for it, she returned and resumed her seat
in the hall-they then separated a few steps, but he
quickly stepped to the kitchen stairway and resumed
' his conversation with the coloured woman, in the
same low whisper, and continued it for some ten or
fifteen minutes, when they separated, and the coloured
woman went to the kitchen, and 1\Ir. 1\Iatthias to
1\Ir. Pierson's room. 1\Irs. Folger asked him, as
he passed her, for what he had motioned to her with
his hand ; he replied, to take away the candle.
1\Irs. Folger then went to the kitchen to assist the
coloured woman with her work. She asked the latter
what 1\Ir. Pierson wished to see her about, and she
replied, that he wanted to ask her to forgive him.
It seems that 1\Ir. Pierson and Isabella had had
some dispute, and had incurred each other's dis-
pleasure, previous to this, while l.Hrs. Folger was at
New-York. .1\Irs. Folger said to her, ' You forgive
him! what has he ever done to you to have occa-
sion to ask forgiveness 1' She replied, 'Enough,'
but was not Jisposed to say any more. .1\Irs.
Folger then asked her if that was what she and 1\Ir.
l\Iatthias were conversing about so privately, to
which she replied, 'Yes!' No more was thought
of this circumstance until after the arrest of .1\Iat-
thias.
"On Sunday 1\Ir. Pierson kept his bed. His
200 ~lA TTIIIAS AND
fits increased m number and violence. l\Iatthias
preached in the parlour, opposite lUr. Pierson's
room, to all the family for se1·cral hours-the door
of Mr. Pierson's room was open until he had a fit,
when the coloured woman, who sat near the door,
was directed by l\Iatthias to shut it until the fit
passed off, which she knew by the singular noise he
made, and when it did she would open it again, and
keep i(open until the occurrence of another fit. In
the latter part of this day, Sunday, l\Irs. Folger ven-
tured to ask l\Ir. Pierson to show her his tongue,
which he did. She said to him that it was thi~ldy
coated, and that he needed, as she thought, evacua-
tions from his bowels,-asking him if he did not
think so himself. He made no reply, as was usual
with him, if he felt himself dictated to by a person
not having authority. Matthias was not present,
but Mrs. Folger is not certain whether l\Ir. Pier-
son's daughter was or not. She was permitted to
be with her father as much as she pleased, without
blame ; but all others 1vere exposed to censure for
visiting him. l\luch of this censure fell upon l\Irs.
Folger (who had sufthed greatly from ill health her-
self), as she would visit his room to wash his hands
and face with cold water, and would often call the
coloured woman to change his position, as spe was
a strong and able person, and was always wiiling to
do it.
" l\Iatthias and the coloured woman spent this
evening in conversation re~pecting his eldest son,
who had clandestinely left Singsing while his father
was at New-York. lHr. Pierson had previously
IllS !}!POSTURES, 201
toiJ l\Ir. l\Iatthias the particulars of his going, in
which matter the coloured woman was shown to
have been in fault; !Jut the latter now made her
statement. It appeared that Isabella had stewed
some cherries, which the boy had stolen and eaten.
r She acquainted I\lr. Pierson with the circumstance,
who scolded the boy, and threatened to inform his
father-whereupon the lad ran away. Matthias
expressed much displeasure towards l\Ir. Pierson
for an accusation of theft against his son, in his
father's house-asserting that it was out of the
question for a son to steal any thing belonging to
his father. This conversation was so loud that l\Ir.
Pierson could have heard it; but l\Irs. Folger heard
no more of the subject.
The next morning, Monday, l\Irs. Folger visited
l\Ir. Pierson's room, and found him still worse.
She requested his daughter to rub his limbs with a
I
clothes brush, which she did. l\Ir. Pierson then
asked ;\Irs. Folger if she would be willing to give
him an enema: she replied, yes, that she could do
that anJ administer several other remedies which
would promote his recovery, if she \\·as allowed.
Seeing 1\Ir. l\Iatthias advancing to the room, she
said to Mr. Pierson, ask him, and then left the room.
She did so, apprehending that l\Ir. P . would be less
ur~ent ln her presence, as they were acquainted
with her ''iews with regard to sickness and its re-
medies, which exposed her to their mutual cen-
sure whenever advanced. l\Irs. Folger occupied
herself in the duties of the house, expecting direc-
tions from 1\Ir. l\Iatthias or l\Ir. Pierson; but none
202 MATTIIIAS AND
came, nor does she know what passed between
them. She again went to his room towards the
middle of the day, when 1\ir. Pierson immediately
began to speak of his exercises in relation to re-
ceiving his father's spirit, who had been subject to
similar fits as those he was afflicted with. While
he was speaking Matthias came in and continued
the conversation with Mr. Pierson, and Mrs. Fol-
ger retired. At noon she visited his room again.
He was asleep, but restless. She visited his apart-
ment frequently that afternoon, and he continued to
sleep. While the family went to supper or tea, they
heard a noise as though :Mr. Pierson had fallen.
Catharine and 1\lrs. Folger started to go to him,
but Matthias forbade them, and spent some time in
lecturing them for keeping this sick spirit in the
house. ·when Matthias dismissed the table he went
to l\Ir. Pierson's room; Mrs. Folger followed him.
Mr. Pierson was lying on the floor, with his feet
towards the bed, as though he had risen from bed,
and then fallen. He was then apparently asleep.
Mrs. Folger asked Matthias if he should be lifted
on his bed. He replied, no-that he seemed to
have a spirit that liked the floor better. Matthias
then walked for a while in the yard, and on coming
in, seated himself in the parlour and read the news-
papers. l\Irs. Folger remained with Mr. Pierson
to watch him, while his daughter, who had been
with him most of the day, walke~ in the yard with
the rest of the children. 1\lrs. Folger again asked
Matthias if Mr. Pierson might not be placed upon1
his bed ; he made no reply for some minutes, and!
HIS n!POSTURES. 203
then said, we could put his straw bed on the floor,
and lay him on that ; but not to bring his mattress
out of the room, as it was defiled, and he did not
know but that every thing in the room would have
to be burned. l\lrs. Folger called the coloured
woman to make his bed upon the floor. She like-
wise called Catharine to assist, but she refused.
1\Ir. Pierson was then laid upon the bed, and left to
sleep for the night. His breakfast on this (l\Ionday)
morning, consisting of coffee, bread, and shad, was
taken to him by Matthias, and was the last meal he
ever ate.
_ "The next morning, Tuesday, August 5th, he
was insensible, his eyes closed, but his mouth open.
l\Irs. Fol~er asked l\Iatthias if any thing should be
done for l\Ir. Pierson. He said, no; that he (1\Iat-
thias) was attending to his own business, and watch-
ing l\Ir. Pierson's spirit.
"l\lrs. Folger asked if she might give him drink,
or wet his lips, as they appeared dry ; hf! said, no-
he did not need any. l\lrs. Folger visited his room
frequently to drive the flies from him, and anxiously
watched for the return of his senses.
"This morning, after the arrival of the steam.:
boat from New York, a Jewess, whom Mr. Pierson
had previously assisted, came from town to ask for
his aid. l\Ir. l\latthias, who had likewise become
acqnainted with her, and her mother and sister,
through l\lr. Pierson, received, and spent much of
the day and evening in conversing with her. She
asked to see 1\fr. Pierson, and was told she should,
but he continued his conversation without showing
204 , ii!ATTHIAS AND
her the way. When l\Irs. Folger h()ard her expres3
lhe desire the second time, she arose from her seat
and asked if the lady could then see Mr. Pierson.
Matthias took no nolice of the inquiry, but contin-
ued his conversation with i\1rs. Dratch, the person
referred to. Mrs. Folger was very little with Mr.
Matthias and Mrs. Dratch, as she was much occu-
pied ~vith her family duties and frequently visiting
Mr. Pierson's room. Not bPing well herself, her
cares were numerous ; and having very little rest at
night, from her anxiety for l\Ir. Pierson, which was
increased by the singular noise made by hif!i most
of the time, she became greatly exhausted. In the
after part of the day, .l\lr. Matthias told Mrs.
Dratch that she should. see Mr. Pierson after he
had had a warm bath which he had ordered. This
was the first intimation to Mrs. Folger that he in-
tended to give one, and she went immediately to
see that it was prepared ; and while he was.: in it,
assisted in mal<ing his bed, &c. He was put in
the bath by the German labourer and the coloured
\VOman, and while there, the coloured woman per-
ceiving a fit coming upon him, slapped him in the
face, saying, "Come out of your hellish Eleep !"
which Mrs. Folger observed in silence, thinking it
might be the proper way of resisting the sick spirit,
and preventing its visiting the woman, but felt that
she could not have done it herself. His daughter
and Catharine were in the room at the same time.
Mr. Pierson continued insensible ; contrary to Mrs.
Folger's expectations, the bath appeared to produce '
no change in his symptoms. As soon as he was 1
HIS IMPOSTURES. 205
again placed upon his couch, she informed 1\Ir.
l\Iatthias of the fact. He was conversing with
Mrs. Dratch upon the piazza, made no reply, but
continued his conversation, and Mrs. D. continued
to listen. In the evening they sat in conversation
in the parlour. Mrs. D. retired about nine o'clock,
previously offering to sit up with l\Ir. Pierson if it
was necessary ; but l\1atthins said it was not, that
he did not allow it. l\Irs. Folger then called up
the coloured woman, saying also to l\Ir. Matthias
that she felt very uneasy about l\Ir. Pierson, espe-
cially as no drink was given him. l\Iatthias then
directed the coloured woman to bring some water,
which direction she obeyed. He asked for a pint
piteher, directed the coloured woman to hold the
cloth by the sides of l\lr. Pierson's mouth, to
catch the water as it escaped from it, and l\Iatthias
then poured the water from the pitcher, some four
or fivl! feet above him. This operation caused a
shocking noise or gurgling in the throat, which Mrs.
Folger could not remain to hear, and hastened from
the sound. When she returned, this noise had
ceased, and l\Iatthias had ceased to give him drink.
l\Ir. l'ierson had fits now in rapid succession, and
the peculiar noise he made could be heard in every
part of the house. The coloured woman inquired
if she should remain with 1\Ir. Pierson, but Mat-
thias said, nn, and directed her to go to bed, and
retired himself. l\Irs. Folger and the coloured
woman sat up with him, however, until 12 o'clock,
when 1\Irs. Folger laid herself down, only to rest,
feeling that her health required it ; but she did not
s
206 MATTIIIAS AND
sleep-constantly hearing l\1r. Pierson until after
one o'clock. Not long after the peculiar noise
from Mr. Pierson ceased, she heard Matthias go
to his room. Following thither herself, she met
him coming from it. The moment Matthias saw
Mrs. Folger, he said Mr. Pierson was dead. Mrs.
Folger was struck with surprise, and asked him
how he felt, or what he thought-she does not
know which ;-he replied, don't ask me now, and
retired to his room. Mrs. FolgPr slept in the room
with l\Ir. Pierson's daughter and her own children.
She told his daughter early in the morning that her
father was dead. The evPnt was unexpected to her,
as it had been to Mrs. Folger, since we were all
Jed to believe, as we had been taught, that death
would not be allowed to m~ke a prey of one of us,
but that the Holy Ghost, which was given· us, would
enable us to conquer the last enemy. ·when l\Irs.
Folger arose in the morning, Wednesday, 6th Au·
gust, she found Mrs. Drateh in the parlour with
Matthias, who was explaining to her why l\Jr. Pier-
son must die, or go down as John the Baptist, and
that Mr. Pierson had committed some sin unto
death, which would not suffer that body to Pnter the
kingdom of heaven, but much of his spirit was
· valuable, which was all then with him, Matthias,
who woold give him another body. Mrs. Dratch
returned to New York that afternoon. Just pre-
vious to her departure, Mr. Matthias gave her mo-
ney ; from which circumstance it is inferred that she
informed Matthias as to the ohject of her visit ' to
Mount Pleasant and to l\lr. Pierson. It should be
IIIS IMPOSTURES. 207 .
mentioned here that Mrs. Dratch is a widow lady,
who has a very aged mother dependent upon her )
efforts with those of her sister, with the needle, for
support,-that they have, at times, found it exceed-
ingly difficult to get along, and have been assisted
by i\lr. Pierson and l\Ir. Folger.
"At l\Jrs. Folger's request, upon Mrs. Dratch's
arrival in New-York, she immediately called at
1\Ir. Fol~rer's office, who was expected to return to
1'1ew-York on that day from a journey to the north,
upon which he had been absent some nine or ten
days-met him there, and communieated the news
of Mr. Pierson's death. lUr. Folger was as much
surprised at the event as had been the other mem-
bers of the family. lie immediately waited upon
such of the relatives of Mr. Pierson as he could re-
collect, and at thf'ir request, made arrangements for
the removal of the body to New-Jersey. He had
a sealed coffin prepared-the weather being very
wann-engag<'d a hearse, and with a coach, accom-
panied by two female relatives of i\Ir. Pierson, went
to Mount Pleasant early the next day. He like-
wise addressed a letter to Mr. l\Iahlon Pierson, near
Bottle Hill, N.J., acquainting him with the death
of his brother, and all the particulars then within
his knowledge (not having been at Mount Pleasant
at any time during his sickness), and despatched a
messenger with the communication to the residence
of l\fr. Pierson.
" On the day of Mr. Piersnn's death, Mrs.
Dratch, on her way to the steamboat, promulgated
the report in the village of Singsing that Mr. Pierson
'I
208 ~IATTHIAS AND
had been found dead in his bed. A coroner's in-
quest was held on the body that afternoon: Mrs.
Folger was the fifth person examined. She in-
formed them that her husband was absent, and, as
she was ignorant of legal matters, wished to know
if they had a right to proceed as they were doing ;-
they replied that their proceedings were all legal.
She then detailed to them all the particulars of Mr.
Pierson's sickness and death ; she said she did not
,. consider this event as they did, a visitation of Provi-
Idence, but that the devil, death, had robbed us of
.the body of Mr. Pierson, while his sph·it was as
!
much with us as ever. They asked if Mr. Pierson
,\' . had had medicine given him ;·-she replied no,-
~\1 that they considered medicine an evil,-that Mr.
'\ Pierson would not have taken any while he had his
,,
f' senses, and violence had not been done to his often
expressed sentiments on this point, after he had lost
his senses. They inquired if Mrs. Folger would
not employ a physician if she was herself sick ;-
she said no,-that she had already passed through
the hands of so many that she feared her body might
yet be rejected from entering the kingdom of Heaven.
They asked several questions relative to Mr. Pier-
son's property and business with Mr. Folger ;-she
replied that she knew no particulars respecting it,-
referred them to her husband, whom she believed to
be a correct business man, and that they might rest
assured he would render a true and accurate state-
ment of all his tranRactions with Mr. Pierson,-that
she knew from their conversations that they had
confidence in each other, and were partners in some
HIS DIPOSTt:RES. 209
kind of business; and, in conclusion, said if they had
any more inquiries to make she would like to hear
.th~m. She then mentioned that there were some
marks on the sl;in of i\Ir. Pierson, which were oc-
casioned by his !mocking his feet together while in
the tits, but if they found any marlts of violence on
his body, or were not satisfied, they would oblige
her by letting her know it. i\Irs. Folger then left
the room, and supposed they examined the body.
l\Iatthias was very quiet during this time : he had
sent for one of the neighbours, Mr. Bishop-the
only man he respected in the neighbourhood, ex-
cept Judge Keymes-and requested him to make
arrangements for the burial. Mr. Bishop purchased
a coffin and had a grave dug in the burying-ground
in the neighbourhood. The body was to have been
buried there on the next day (Thursday) at noon~
but the arrival of Mr. Folger from New-York, with
the two female relatives of i\1r. Pierson, and
preparations for the removal of the body to New-
Jersey, changed the arrangement. Mr. Folger ac-
companied the corpse to New-York, and, as circum-
stances prevented his vi,.itin~ the state of New-Jer-
~ey, he wwte a line to Mr. 1\Iahlon Pierson, :>tating
those circumstances, and engaged an acquaintance
)to go in charge of the hearse and carriage, accom-
panied by the two females before mentioned. They
proceeded that night, and in the course of it, reached
Mr. l\lahlon Pierson's residence.
" ,\htthias wished to leave l\Iount Pleasant and
go to New-York in his carriage on the same aft.,r-
noon, an hour or two afte1· l\Ir. Folger had left with
82
_j
vI.,
. '
J\
' \·
210 .MATTHIAS AND
the corpse, but did not leave until the next morning,
when he took his departure with Lewis the coach-
man. He wished Mrs. Folger to ride down in the
carriage with him, but she replied that her health
would not allow her to incur the fatigue, and, more-
over, that she wished to remain with her children.
Tieing reminded, however, that Mr. Folger had
said, just as he left, that he should expect her clown
the next day, she made arrangements for departu ., ,
and went down in the steamboat that afternoon, ac-
ccmpanied by the coloured woman.
"Mr. Folger expressed his great surprise at the
death of Mr. Pierson to Matthias, who said to him
in reply, that he should serve all his enemies in like
manner,-that as soon as he found that his (Mat-
thias's) spirit had rejected the body of Mr. Pierson,
he had gone into his own room and made a sign as
simple as to turn the spoke of a chair-this is the
precise expression of Matthias-which never failed, ,
and referred to Ezekiel's signs for the certainty of
it. He informed Mr. and Mrs. Folger that they
should be dealt with in like manner if they opposed
him, or proved treacherous to him, declaring again
that he possessed the power to do it, and they still
fear d that he did.
"Matthias now continually advanced new ideas,
preaching wh•'mever opportunity offered,-but in the
absence of Mr. Pierson, who was, so to speak (and
was so called), the second witness for truth, it was
more difficult for him to convince Mr. and Mrs.
Folger of his new doctrines, the more especially as
it appeared about this time that he could not over-
HIS IniPOSTURES. 2ll
come the legal proceedings instituted by the attor-
neys of the estate of I\lr. Pierson. In a conversa-
tion with Matthias in the same month of Mr. Pier-
son's death, l\Ir. Folger told him what the laws were,
and suggested his surrendering the title to any pro-
perty he possessed of :Mr. Pierson's. lie at first
rejected it, but afterward said he would not contend
with them under such circumstances : that of course
he could not have justice in a gentile court. Upon
this, supposing all would be done, l\lr. Folger invited
1\Ir. B.-- and. l\Ir. C--, two relatives of l\Ir.
Pierson, to arrived to Third-street and have an inter-
view with l\Iatthias. When they came, he seated him-
self in a large rocking-chair in the i-niddle of the
floor, and instead of entering upon the business
upon which they came, he immediately commenced
preaching to them, censuring the Christian religion,
and going on in his usual manner, engrossing al-
most exclusively the conversation ; but occasionally
those gentlemen would Interpose a few words of re-
ply. and both discovered a knowledge and an ability
to defend the doctrines of Christianity. The pa-
tience of the former held out the longest, but at
length his was exhausted. "\Vhen at last they asked
him the surrender of the property in question, to
the surprise of l\1r. Folger, he declined, and said
he would test the strength of the gentile laws. 1\Ir.
Folger was quiet until they had gone, when he ex-
pressed his surprise that he had not done as 1\Ir. Fol-
ger had understood him he would. He replied that
the spirit had told him that he must not, at all haz-
ards, surrender to the devil the property of God.
212 MATTHIAS AND
"Mr. Folger had frequently before this told him
of the increasing difficulties of his business; he now
informed him that he should be obliged to remove
his family into more limited quarters, and reduce his
expenses. As Mr. and 1\Irs. Folger, however, still
believed him to be a good man, the former told him
of his having in his possession the sum of about
eight hundred dollars, received from the estate of
his wife, which he regarded as distinctly his own,
and that if he required it, he would give him a part
of it. 1\Irs. Folger was present at this conversa-
tinn, closely observed his countenance, and for the
first time discovered alarm depicted on it, which sha
immediately spoke of, but he denied that it was so.
He spent much time in arguing and in trying to dis-
suade lHr. Folger from his purpose, who was, he
said, in a lost condition. In this unsettled situation
we remained some time. 1\Ir. Folger was con-
stantly urging Matthias to leave, and he refusing to
go, saying he would not until all his arguments had
fniled, and be was forced to quit. He told his chil-
dren they were at liberty to do as they pleased, of
which pe;mission they readily took advantage and
acted accordingly-venting upon l\irs. Folger, her
children, and the rest of the family their rage, during
the day, in the absence of 1\Ir. Folger upon his bus.
iness. She bore it in silence, however, not yet
knowing but that he was all that he represented him-
self to be ; for their belief in him bad been sincere,
·and was strongly establisht>d. The rest of the fam-
ily, exclusive of l\Ir. and 1\Irs. Folger and their
children, manifested stronger faith in him than ever,
IllS DIPOSTURES. 213
At length, while 1\Ir. Folger was abroad, he Legan
to charge 1\Irs. Folger as being responsible for
breaking up "the kingdom." She would then tell
the family, in his presence, what the circumstances
were, but to little or no purpose, for as soon as her
back was turned, he would say so much to the con-
trary, as to recall them to believe in his statements ;
and they no doubt were aware that it might be some
time before they would be able to find another so
independent and well-provided a home.
" l\Ir. Folger at this time was much occupied
and tried in his mind with business perplexities, and
finding him still decided in his determination to sep-
arate, l\Irs. Folger forbore to mention to him her
trials in his absence from the house, being sustained
by the hope of a speedy deliverance from them.
But l\Iatthias at last ascertaining that 1\Ir. Folger
was not to be wrought upon farther by him, at-
tempted to terrify l\lrs. Folger into a farther belief
of his doctrines. She, howeyer, told him that she
had not faith, and therefore could not exercise it.
H e asked, if it was then her determination to pur-
sue the course her husband had proposed ; if it was,
he added, he had made the same sign for her he had
made for Mr. Pierson, which would not fail. She
said, firmly, it was. He then said, at the height of
his voice, which was, on the whole, almost deafen-
ing, stamping at the same time violently with his feet,
she should be D-A-l\1-N-E-D! Mrs. Folger was
much alarmed, and feared that the earth would open
and swallow her up, or something worse. She was
then quite unwell and wearied, and did not feel sure,
214 l.I!ATTIIIAS AND
for a time, but that some of his curses had taken
effect. Hut finding that she outli1·ed one curse, she
felt encouraged to urge her husband, when he came
home in the evening, to be more prompt in effecting
the dismissal of l\Iatthias ; and on the following
morning she proposed that he should leave her up-
stairs, and say to Matthias distinctly that he should
have no more opportunity of preaching to her, and
insist upon his leaving that day. This was done,
and he promised to go, but requested that the family
might dine together once more. l\Ir. Folger took
l\Irs. Folger's breakfast up t.o her room, and she
drank freely of the coffee. She then asked to have
her littlP- daughter, about six years old, sent up to
her. ·when the child came up-stairs, she said,
" l\Iotber, Mr. Matthias said that was not the Lord's
table they ate at this morning, but the devil's," and
that l\Ir. l\latthias did not eat any breakfast. The
child likewise said that the coffee was not good,
and that she could not drink it.
" .Mr. Folger, being inuch occupied that morning
in delivering the articles of furniture belonging to
the estate of Mr. Pierson, which was to he sold at
auction, sent for l\'lrs. Folger, as he needed her as.
sistance. Meeting her little son, about ten years
of ag-e, as she.descended the stairs, he said to her,
"l\Iother, the coffee was so bad this morning I could
hardly drink it." She merely replied to him, being
busy, " Why did you drink it then 1'' and the circum-
stance escaped her mind, as did the other complaint
from the little girl.
'' l\latthias seized an opportu~ity, while l\Ir. Fol-
lliS IMPOSTURES. 215
ger was in •mother part of the house delh·ering fur-
niture, to renew his threats upon l\Irs. Folger. He
was then seated in the kitchen, preachin~r to Cath-
arine and the coloured woman. l\lr8. Folger was
engaged down-stairs, and continued to be until din-
ner was ready. l\Iatthias did not eat any dinner,
but wept while the rest were eating-intending per-
haps. to try the force of tears, for he did shed real
tears. 1\lrs. Folger did not observe the coloured
woman at that time, bt!t has at other times, that she
did not eat when l\Iatthias allstained. l\Trs. Folger
retired to her room after dinner, with her childr~n.
It rained that afternoon, and l\latthias pleaded that
circumstance as an excuse to l\1r. Folger that he
did not depart. At supper-time l\latthias sealed
himself at the table, but did not partake. lie rc- \
marked that he began to realize his situation, and . /t(
commenced pronouncing woes npon those who had .=J, i
caused it. 1\lr. Folger forbade his preaching any <...,<
more to his family, and he was silenced for the time. " ( ,
"l\Ir. Folger asked him if he should send his ', >r
sons to their mother in Albany ; l\latthias replied he ""
would as soon send them to hell,--but in the same
breath said he wished he would. On a second re-
flection, however, it seemed to be his design to keep
house somewhere in New-York. He packed up
their clothes with hi~, and said he should take them
with him. l\Ir. Folger soon afier this recollected
that he had }JI'Omised their mothPr, that if they were
o leave his family, he would send them to her. He
ccordingly told l\Iatthias of it and that it must be
one ; and within three days, after having things
216 l\IATTHIAS AND
properly prepared, 1\Ir. Folger committed them to
the care of the captain of a steamboat, paid their
expenses to Albany, and sent them home.
"Immediately after supper, on the last night Mat-
thias was in the house, he went to bed. Mr. Folger
had an errand out on business, and went to attend
to it. Mrs. Folger, with Catharine, retired to her
room, but having occasion to go to the kitchen .after
a while, Matthias was found there with the coloured
woman. Catharine accompanied Mrs. Folger to
the kitchen, whereupon Matthias and the coloured
woman began to persuade her to join them in keep-
ing house,-and they no doubt would have induced
Catharine to go with them, but for the advice of
Mr. and Mrs. Folger.
" During thut night, Mrs. Folger was quite unwell
and did not sleep. She observed that Mr. Folger
was very restless and groaned in his sleep. The
.children, who were in the next room with Catharine,
were restless and wakeful, and rather wild and light-
headed. Catharine was also restless and groaned
in her sleep. 1\Jrs. :Folger then remembered the I
children's complaint about the coffee, and Matthias
not eating when they did. In consequence of this,
she told Catharine in the morning to get breakfast
separately for us,-to be sure she washed every
thing to be used, and not to use any of the provisions
then in the house. Catharine then mentioned to
1\Irs. Folger that she had observed the coffee was
bad the morning before, bad a strange taste, and
had something white in it ;-c.that sh'e had asked the
coloured wo_
man the cause of it, who had replied
1115 I~IPOSTURES, 217
that we could not expect to have good coffee, or any
blessing, while her father was offended. This
morning, Mr. Folger went down, at Mrs. Folger's
request, to see that her instructions were obeyed.
Mr. Folger and family took breakfast in the par-
lour : l\Iatthias, the coloured woman, and Matthias's
sons, below stairs.
"After breakfast, l\lr. Folger told Matthias he
must be off immediately,-that he should not leave
the house until he had gone,-that as for his sons,
they should be sent to their mother. Matthias un-
dertook again to display some of his lofty move-
ments, and made some objections, but the spell was
broken, _and his day had pas~ed. He was soon
silenced, upon being assured that if there was any
farther trouble with him, Mr. Folger would step to
the police-oftlce and get assistance. He consumed
all the time he could in getting his clothes together,
and asking for many articles, which were denied
him. He exercised considerable ingenuity to ob-
tain them, but his true character was understood,
and his motions were watched. He at last obtained
a cartman, sent away his baggage, and departed him-
self about noon, on the eighteenth or nineteenth of
September.
"Mr. and i\lrs. Folger went the same day in
search of a more suitable residence. In the even-
ing, Catharine communicated some facts of which
we were not before aware, and which, on being
compared with other circumstances, convinced us
that :Matthias was truly a wicked man. ""e have
since had abundant testimony to sustain us in this
T
218 MATTHIAS ANU
belief, and we feel truly thankful for our escape from
so deep a delusion.
" Soon after Matthias came to visit l\Ir. Folger,
the housekeeper, who had intended to change her
place before he camf', left the family. After she
had gone, Matthias spoke of the coloured woman,
often referred to in this narrative, recommended her
for her faithfulness and industry, and advised her
engagement. 1\Irs. Folger rellected upon it, con-
sulted with her husband, and they concluded to em-
ploy her. Matthias went for her, but would not al-
low her to have wages. Mrs. Folger did not find
her capable of r<'ndering all the assistance she
needed, but as they had a coloured man who under-
stood, and was disposed to assist in house-work,
they were willing, in consideration of her former
faithfulness to Matthias, still to depend upon her for
help. But she became less useful as time advanced,
for she had been in early life a slave, and Matthias
was to requite those who had been oppressed , with
extra blessings. If there was any oppression to be
borne, or coming short of blessings, in his kingdom,
it must fall upon Mr. and Mrs. Folger, Mr. Pierson,
and their children, as they had had an abundance all
their lives ; they were to be classed with all those
who have more than their families need from day to
day, and were robbers of God. This doctrine gave
much satisfaction to those members of the family
who had not been favoured with as much ease as
they would like, and they improved all their oppor-
tunities. Very little regard was manifested by Mat-
thias or any of the rest of them for economy. They
HIS niPOSTURES. 219
had nothing at stake-they came there without
means, and they appeared to have little regard for
property. Matthias had previously promised them,
or most of them, that he would provide abundantly for
them, which they were now realizing, and they were
willing to receive all his promises for an abundance
in future. The snuff-box found in ;\Iatthias's pos-
session, with a painting on the lid, representing the
monkey eating the oysters and handing the shells to
the cat, was indel'd an apt illustration of 1\lr. Pier-
son's and .\'Ir. and Mrs. Folger's situation. It was
presented to ,\Iatthias by ;\Jr. Folger.
" After Matthias broke up housekeeping, in Clark-
son-street, in the spring of l 833, the coloured wo-
man went out to service in New-York by the month.
From her account, as well as that of Matthias, she
must have been very faithful to him.
"She gave the avails of her labour to him, be-
sides at times borrowing money for him ; so that
when she came to Mount Pleasant, she was in need
of clothes. i\Irs. Folger furnished her, during the
time she was with her, to the amount of some thirty
or forty dollars ; the greater part soon after she came.
\Vhen she left Mrs. Folger, which was on the same
day that ,\Iatthias dPparted, her services were valued,
and :\Ir. Folger paid her, at his request, the sum of
twenty-five dollars, as the amount due to her. This
was a direct departure fi·om the doctrine he had pre-
viously advanced, but was in character with his con-
versations about this time. All these things had
their weight to confirm us in our opinion of his wick-
edness, as it became more and more developed.
220 1\IATTIIIAS AND
"Catharine was the wife of one of 1\fr. M. H. S.'s
waiters, who was with him during the time that 1\Iat-
thias preached at his house. He died soon after
1\fatthias left there, as he (Matthias) said, in conse-
quence of his curse upon him, for opening the door
when the officers came that conveyed him to prison
at that time. Catharine was visited by the col-
oured woman as often as circumstances would per-
mit, after the latter came to Mount Pleasant. The
coloured woman spoke of her to Mrs. Folger, and
represented her as being in poor health and destitute
circumstances, and as a very deserving person. In
November, 1833, she was taken into the service of
the family at Singsing, at the request of l\Iatthias
and l\fr. Pierson. She professed to be then, and
said she had been since Matthias preached at Mr.
1\I. II. S.'s, a believer in his doctrines. She be-
lieved that l\Iatthias could restore her to health.
Her oldest child was soon after this refused support
by the friends it had been with, and it was received
into the family and continued with Mrs. Folger long
aftPr the departure of 1\latthias, and as long as she
could with convenience keep it. Catharine re-
mained with 1\Trs. Folger until the close of Decem-
ber. Soon aftPr she left, she called to see Mrs.
Folger, and said to her that she had had an inter-
view with the coloured woman, and had asked her
why she had told so many falsehoods about 1\Irs.
Folger : that the coloured woman replied, 1
Because
she was the means of breaking up the kingdom,'
and added, 1
Catharine, you know we are among
the Gentiles-are obliged to eat pork, and we
IllS IMPOSTURES. 221
cannot help telling lies ; besides it's no harm to lie
to these devils.' She concluded by saying, as
Catharine represented, that she would crush Mrs.
Folger yet."
Thus much for the narrative of 1\lr. and l\lrs.
Folger. It is a round, unvarnished tale of the deep
and melancholy delusion in which they were in-
volved; and is, moreover, as far as it goes, a tale
of unexaggerated, unadorned, and simple truth.
That such is its character, the writer entertains not
a particle of doubt. It is much longer than was
anticipated when l\Ir. and l\Irs. Folger commenced
preparing it ; but it would have been easier to ex-
tend than to contract it, without the omission of
things deemed necessary to the development of the
impostor's character, and to the elucidation of truth.
It is very possible, moreover, that those who have
been anticipating disclosures of yet deeper villany
on the part of l\Iatthews-of scenes of licentious-
ness and lust, at the relation of which humanity
would weep, and modesty veil her frtce-will feel
some degree of disappointment. Such tales, we
know, ha\'e been circulated, verbally and in print,
until the ear has been pained, and the soul sick-
ened at their repetition. Nor~ it__
stra_ng.e._that such
gross reports should havefobtained currency,) The
my~tery which hung over the establishment at Sing-
sing-and the known and acknowledged blindness
and infatuation of the estimable and previously re-
spected proprietors and occupants of the head-quar·
T2
222 l\BT'l:HIAS AND
ters of the prophet, and now supposed den of
~i~:-all these circumstances, and others that
ffilglit.be recapitulated, conspired to raise suspicion,
and to give full employment to the hundred tongues
of rumom·. And such would have been the fact-
the worst would have been surmised-under the
circumstances of the case, had every inmate of Mr.
Folger's house been chaste and pure "as the icicle
that hung from Dian's temple." And so ready are
the credulous public ever to believe the worst of a
tale of scandal, that the immoralities of the leader of
any sect in religion, remarkable either for its novelty
or wildness, however flagrant, but too often gives
colouring to the grossest and most indiscriminate
charges. But insinuations of such impurities, more
especially in cases where pure and blameless lives
have afforded no previous sanction to the scandal,
ought always to be received with caution. And we
should be ever careful in our censures of those
whose errors are founded on the mere perversion
of reason. " Though we speak with the tongues of
tnen and of angels, and have not chm·ity, we are as
sounding b;·ass, o;· a tinkling cymbal. Charity suf-
fe;·eth long, and is kind; chm·ily envieth not;
thinlcelh no evil. Chm·ity ;·ejoicclh not in iniquity,
bttt hopeth all things, and ;·ejoiceth in the truth."
Let us remember, moreover, that we are all frail
beings-and that we know not how far God
will allow his people to wander into error, and yet
bring them back to his fold ; calling also to mind the
words of the apostle in the following injunction.
HIS IMPOSTURE~. 223
which applies forcibly in a case like the present :-
" Brelh1·en, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye
which m·e spi1ilual1·estm·e such an one in the spi1·it
of meel·ness ; conside1·ing thyself, lest thou also be
templed. Bear ye one another's bunlens, and so
fulfil the law of Clu·ist."
224 MATTHIAS AND
CHAPTER VIII.
Farther notes respecting Mr. P ierson- Visit of Mr. Folg-er with
a message to Mr. M. at the llloomingt\ale Asylum-i\!r. Lais-
dell pursues his wife to Singsing, New-York, and hack to
Mount Zion-Proceedings by Habeas Corpus-Obtains are-
lease-High excitement-Conduct of Matthias at Singsing
-Folger breaks With him-Is overcome- The people resoh e
to drive him from the county- Ruse de guerre, and shaving
of his beard- Suspicions of murder in the case of Pierson,
and of an attempt on the lives of Mr. Folger and family-
The impostor pursued to Albany, arrested, and brought back-
His costly array returned and enumerated-Post l\1ortem exam-
ination of Mr. Pierson-Curious conversation with a lawyer
- Matthias's jealousy of a ri<al, and account of Mr. Pierson's
death-His examination- Other legal proceedings with the
charge of murder-Causes of Pierson's and Folger's losses
of property- Combination of swindlers against them- Un-
fortunate directions of the Spirit in regard to machines and
stocks.
IN resuming our own connected history of Mat-
thews and his deluded associates, it will be necessa-
ry to recur back a few months, to collect a few scat-
tered particulars which have not been mentioned
in the preceding narrative from Mr. Folger and his
wife. Of Mr. Pierson, little remains to be said.
His diary continued to be kept with considerable
regularity, after he went to reside at l\Iount Zion ;
but the entries were brief, and in general devoid of
his former religious unction, or of interest of any
kind. neing confined chiefly to the business of the
IllS IMPOSTURES.
1
225
day, and the movements of the principal memuers
of the household, to and from New-York, and else- •
where. From these entries, it appears that on the
23d of December, 1\Ir. Folger was baptized by
1\Iatthews, and on the day following l\Ir. Pierson
was himself baptized. On a subsequent day it is
recorded-" Robert l\latthias anointed me with oil,
and I afterward anointed him and Ann [FolgerJ
with oil." The following is another of his record-
ed prayers:-
"Lord Jesus, I ask thee particularly to give me power over
the drunken spirit, to cast it out of whomsoever I will, and for-
bid it from ever entering again into the same person from whom
it is cast out."
In the annexed memorandum we have another
reference to one of Matthews's visions ;
".Mr. Matthias had his exercises, res~ecting the sanctuary,
as follows. An angel smd with n loud vmce, the sanctuary mw:t
be cleansed ; the sanctuary shall be cleansed ; the sanctuary
must and shall be cleansed. Speedily, speedily, speedily."
On one occasion we find him praying for a mi-
raculous restoration of his decayed teeth, and on
another that his eye-sight may be restored as in the
days of his youth. To the former request we find
no recorded answer ; but in regard to his eye-sight,
he state~, a few days subsequent to the date of his
prayer, that, chancing to hold his book at a great
distance from his eyes than he had been wont, he
could see with much more distinctness ; and he
records the fact, which is of every-day occurrence
with those whose eyes are becoming dim by the ad-
vance of years, as a miraculous interposition in
answer to his prayer !
226 MATTHIAS AND
The.following is a memorandum found among
Mr. Pierson's papers, in the handwriting of l\Ir.
Folger. It shows how entirely the delusion had
fastened upon his own mind, more strongly even than
according to his own relation, if that be possible.
S aturday, January 18, 1834. This morning we left Zion Hill
for Kew-York city, with directions from Father to call upon Mr.
1\f. at the Bloomingdale asylum on the way. In conformity
therewith we called, and had an interview with him late in the
afternoon. After an exchange of the ordinary salutations, we
proceeded to deliver the message \\e had received from the
Father, Robert Matthias, namely: The Father's house has been
established upon a permanent foundation, at the place which was
called Mr. Folger's near Singsing. We have been directed to
say to you, that you are now required to leave this place, and
come there, where you will be made welcome and happy : pro-
vision havi1;1g been made for you and your children."
The journey of l\Ir. Folger to Albany, early in
January, 1834, to bring the family of l\Iatthews to
l\'Iount Zion, has been detailed by him, and is
in entire accordance with the statement of the same
transaction by Mrs. l\'Iatthews herself. It will be
recollected that l\Irs. l\1. declined going with her
children, who were accompanied by their sister,
Mrs. Laisdell, then recently married. Receiving
no intelligence from his wife, Laisdell followed her
to Singsing, where he arrived on or about the first
of February. Applying at the house of Mr. Pier-
son, he was informed that his wife was with her
father in New-York. He pursued them to the city,
sought out the house in Third-street, and demanded
her restoration ; but 1\Iatthews evaded the requisi-
tion, and returned with his daughter to Singsing.
Laisdell returned also, and, by the advice of friends,
IllS DI POSTURES. 227
sued out a writ of Habeas Corpus. Public indig-
nation was raging fiercely at Singsing against the
impostor, and on hearing of the treatment his daugh-
ter had received at his hands, the manifestations of a
popular out-breal<ing, unless she should be set at lib-
erty, were unequivocal. The citadel was besi<'ged,
and by the demonstrations ofcivil officers, clergymen,
lawyers, and resolute yeomen, they succeeded in
compelling the arch-fanatic to yield her up in obedi-
ence to the writ. Matthews, his daughter, and l.Hr.
Folger were thereupon brought before a magistrate in
the village, on the 17th of February. At the com-
mencement of the investigation, the former claimed
l\'lrs. Laisdell as his daughter. Her husband then
produced the certificate of their marriage, signed by
Frederick G. Mayer, pastor of the Lutheran con-
gregation in Albany. l\Iatthews pronounced the
minister to be a devil, protesting that the devil
could not marry. He was violent and vociferous
as usual when excited, and uttered many other ex-
pressions of rudeness and profanity, in the earlier
stage of the proceedings ; but as a vast multitude
of people had collected, a portion of whom began
to assume a threatening attitude, he changed his
conduct to that of mildness and circumspection.
Laisdell said he did not wish his wife to return with
him unless agreeable to her own wishes. It was
proposed that she should go into a separate room
and converse with him, to which she consented ;
but her resolution was changed instantaneously by
a single glance of her father's eye ; " there was no
use in it," she said, and she did not wish to go with
228 niATTHIAS AND
her husband. The magistrate, however, doubtless
believing that the father was the diabolical spirit,
rather than the minister who had married them, di-
rected the young woman to be surrendered to her
husband. The people were greatly exasperated ;
and but for the prudence of the judge and counsel
employed on the occasion, the prophet would have
been stripped of his sacerdotals, and shorn of his
beard, and all other fantastical appendages : a sub-
stitute would have been found in a robe of tar and
feathers. Mr. Folger applied to the court for pro-
tection for himself and family on their return home,
a distance of about two miles, being convinced that
they were exposed to danger. The people, how-
ever, assured him that his wife and himself had
nothing to fear ; but it was only with great difficulty
that they were restrained from laying violent hands
on the impostor. But good sense and self-respect
prevailed in the end ; a carriage was procured, and
the parties were suffered to leave without molesta-
tion. l\latthews had been very insolent to the court,
in the beginning of the investigation, and the judges
had only been deterred from committing him for a
contempt, by the desire of preventing popular tu-
mult and violence. Matthews was not insensible to
his personal peril, and trembled like an aspen leaf
while those who were anxious to preserve the pub-
lic peace were leading him to his carriage.
It was the custom of Matthews to ride out in his
"chariot" almost daily, while residing at Singsing;
and as he made all the purchases, and laid in all
the supplies for the establishment at l\Iount Zion,
lll~ lli!POSTURES. 229
his visits to the village were frequent ; but he
usually met, when there, with those expressions of
reprehension and disgust which he deserved-repel-
ling them with the bitterest cursings, and his wonted
absurd threatenings respecting his power to inflict
chastisement upon the offenders. But those out-
pourings of his distempered spirit were regarded
only with emotions of contempt. Meantime, he was
amply supplied with money: he directed the pur-
chase and sale of horses at his pleasure-procured
every luxury he desired, and seemed fo revel with a
sw9y uncontrolled in the paradise which his deluded
followers had placed at his disposal.
1\Ir. Folger and his fiunily had been sincerely re-
spected at Singsing, and deservedly so. The sym-
pathy for his situation was great ; while for l\Iat-
thews, but one sentiment-that of universal disgust
-was entertained. He was considered by all
classes as an interloper upon Mr. Folger, who
would ruin his peace of mind, his reputation, and,
probably, his eternal prospects. l\Iany remon-
strances were urged upon 1\lr. Folger, and he was
faithfully and affectionately advised to discard him,
but without avail. At one time, he returned to
Mount Zion from the city with his soul on fire, ap-
parently, and with his eyes open as to his real situa-
tion ; to his friends he declared Matthews to be a
gross impostor, and promised to eject him forthwith;
asking advice and assistance of them, if neces-
sary. But on entering the charmed castle, he be-
came spell-bound, and was unmanned. Deeming it
a favourable moment to dismiss the impostor, a few
u
230 MATTHIAS AND
friends of 1\rr. F. waited on him that evening, and
urged the fulfilment of his purpose; but he begged
them to leave him, and the next day declared, ".Mat-
thias's doctrines must be lme, o1· I am a 1·uined
man!" At this point human endurance was at an
end, and he was frankly told that the impostor must
leave the county that day, or violent measures would
be taken to remove him.
.IUatthews, ever alive to approaching danger,
made instant preparations fur his departure to the
city; but sev'eral individuals determined upon hav-
ing a frolic at his expense before his flight, for which
purpose matters were well arranged. Just as he
was about to step into his chariot, he was arrested
by a pretended ofllcer, accompanied by several asso-
ciates to enforce his authority. 1.\latthews demanded
a sight of the precept, but the counterfeit officer de-
clined exhibiting it. They returned into the house
to converse upon the subject. Bnt the moment
they had succeeded in getting 1\Iatthews within
doors, the keys were turned. After a parley of
some duration, the prophet consented to go to the
village. The supposed officer then gravely informed
him of a conspiracy to divest him of his beard. He
stated that there were a party of fellows in ambush
by the way, determined to seize him and cut off his
beard before he should enter the village; and he
kindly advised him to take off his beard before
he lefl the house. [t was a sore trial for 1\Iat-
thews, for the beard of J\Iahomet himself was
not more sacred in his own ryes, or in those
of his followers. BPing convinced, however, that
discretion was the better part of valour, he at length
lliS I~IPOSTURES. 231
J
yielded to the suggestion, and the officer himself
.condescended to perform the operation of divt>sting
him at once of his glory and his strength. He was
then taken to the village as in custody, and after
being exhibited beardle~s to the people, was dis-
chargt>d on the ground of a defect in the warrant.
In this predicament he fled to the city, and took
refuge in Third-street, as related in the narrative of
lUr. -Folger.
The history is now resumed -at the point where it
was !Pft by the narrative referred to. " ' ith the ab-
sence of the impostor himself; and the return of rea-
son and reflPction, l\Ir. Folger and his wife now
began e1·ery hour to perceirP, more and more clearly,
the strange delusion by which they had so long and
so fatally been influenced. Every moment also in-
creased the abhorrence and detestation with which
they looked upon the character of the impostor.
Recalling all the circumstances of the case-the
conduct of l\Iatthews at the table, when he refused
to partake of the fruit which they supposed to have
caused the death of Pierson-remembering, more-
over, his threats towards themselves, when he per-
teived his power over their imaginations was depart-
ing-, and the sickness which had followed those
threats upon every member of the family who par-
took of the coffee, which neither l\Iatthews nor the
cook, who was his disciple, would themselves taste
-strange misgivings now took possession of their
minds, that 1
\Ir. Pierson might have died by foul
means, and that an attempt, by poison, had been
made upon their own lives. In__any event, it was
now manifest that they had \j_~ :mos,.\shamefully
f; ' J' • ;
(;, .\tr,.,.-,_ ·...
._., '! .,.... 1. ';I;
ti1
l.·,?~li~} ltJ
ft';·· ~ ~ .. f!rr..
232 n!ATTIIIAS AND
deluded and swindled by the false pretences of the
impostor, and, after consulting with his friends, on ~
the 19th of Septe!llber, 1\Ir. Folger caused an adver-
tisement to be inserted in the papers, offering a re-
ward of one hundred dollars for the apprehension of
lHatthews ; in consequence of which he was arrested
at Albany, where he had taken lodgings on escaping
from N cw-York-visiting his wife, more like a stran-
ger than a husband, and making no provision for
her support. On his person were found five hundred
and five dollars in gold, part of the money obtained
from l\Ir. Folger, and the gold watch, chain, &c.,
which had also been obtained from him. The cir-
cumstances were these :-In January, 1834, Mat-
thews informed him that a watch which had been
given to him by l\Ir. Pierson had been taken from
him, and that it was his (Folger's) duty to give him
another, which he accordingly did-purchasing a
new gold watch, with chain, seal, and key, of the
value of one hundred and fifteen dollars, for the pur-
pose. Information of his arrest, under the adver-
tisement, having been received from Albany, accom-
panied by an intimation that unless demanded by
legal process, he would be set at liberty, 1\'Ir.
Folger, with his counsel, went before one of the
police magistrates and made a deposition, embracing
not indeed the whole particulars of his connection
with 1\latthews, but sufficient to bring the latter
within the operation of the law, and far more, as
may well be imagined, than sufficient to prove him
either a raving madman, or one of the most impu-
dent and shameless impostors that ever existed.
IllS n!POSTURES. 233
A warrant was issued upon the strength of this
deposition, with which an officer was despatched to
Albany, and by virtue of which the impostor was
tpeedily brought to New-York.
Among other articles found with him when ar-
r-ested, was a very beautiful two-edged sword, which
he called the sword of Gideon, and which, he de-
clared, was miraculously preserved and put into his
possession. On examining it, however, it exhibited
strong marks of having once bclon!!ed to, or at
least been made for, an ofiicer of the United States
army, as the blade of it was inscribed with the na-
tional motto, "E plw·ibus unum." Along with this
&word was found a six-feet rule, marked like a car-
penter's scale, whi('h, the impostor said, was to
measure the New Jerusalem, in order to divide it
into lots for such as beli..ved in and assisted to sup-
port him. But the antiquity of the scale was also
disproved on examination, by the inscription "Kttl:::,
make>·, No. 16-! ll·aler-sll·eel, .1\'·ew-York." Along
with these articles was a large gold key, or at least
a key that looked like gold, which, he stated, was
given him to unlock the gates of heaven. The of-
ficer also brought with his prisoner two large trunks
and a carpet-bag-the latter filled with new boots,
shoes, and pumps, and the former with linen and
wearing apparel of the richPst and most costly
description. Linen shirts of exquisite fineness, the
wristbands fringed with delicate lace, silk stockings
and handkerchiefs, kid and other gloves, and a great
variety of similar articles filled one of the trunks;
while the other contained his gold-mounted cocked
U2
234 niATTHIAS AND
hat, an olive cloak of the finest-texture, lined through-
out with velvet and silk ; a new green and brow!!-
frocJl:-coat of simila1· quality, the former heavily em- J
broidered with gold, and the latter with silver, in the
form of stars, with a large sun on one breast and
seven stars on the other ; two merino morning- .
dresses ; and other rich et creteras " too tedious to
mention." But the rarest articles of all were two
night-caps, made of linen cambric, folded in the
form of a mitre, richly embroidered-one with the
names of the twelve apostles written around it, and
"Jesus Matthias" adorning the front in more con-
spicuous characters ; the other surrounded with the
names of the twelve tribes, the front embelli,hed the
same as the other. The whole ·betokened the ut-
most extravagance and lavish expenditure of money
and labour ; and months must have been spent by
female hands (probably those of some one or more
of his disciples) in ornamenting and making up the
apparel of this dainty impostor. .
Some days intervened after his arrivatin New-
York before an examination could be held. Mean-
time, and during the absence of Matthews at Albany,
the death of Mr. Pierson had been followed by no
small degree of excitement at Singsing. A multi-
tude of rumours were in circulation, and a legal in-
vestigation into the causes of his death was com-
menced. The body of the deceased was disinterred
at 1\Iorristown, and, on a post mortem examination,
several respectable physicians certified " that they
found in the stomach a large quantity of an unwhole-
some and deadly substance, which had been intro-
IllS 11\IPOSTURES. 235
duced accidentally or otherwise." The publication
of these facts had of course increased the excite-
ment upon the subject in New-York and elsewhere.
On the morning of his examination, however, a
scene occurred in his apartment, which it is neces-
sary to describe, in order to the farther illustration
of his own character, and also to disclose a new cir-
cumstance in the history, as connected with l\[r.
Pierson. While waiting for the commencement of
the proceedings, l\lr. W--, a counsellor in the in-
terest of l\Ir. Folger, and who, in the course of his
professional business, had known much of the con-
nection of Matthews with Pierson and his client,
.stepped into the apartment in which the prisoner
was detained, seating him,elf, and taking not the
least notice of him. l\Iatthews kr1ew the gentleman
perfectly, but for a time affected ignorance-striding
about the apartment with atfcctPd dignity, and ex-
claiming" devil !-devil!" evidently with the design
of provoking remark, or at least of attracting atten-
tion. Failing in this, he all at once changed his
manner, and approached the gentleman with com-
parative courtesy, remarking:-
" l\lr. 'Y--, I believe?"
"'Veil," replied the gentleman, with indifference,
" what ~hould you think about it?"
"Why," rejoined the impostor, with an arch wink
of the eye and a sardonic grin, "1-1-should
thiuk it was."
The gentleman then spoke to him thus: "Now,
lHatthias, you know me very well, and you know
tbt~t I know you very well. You need not, there-
236 ~IATTJIIAS AND
fore, pu! on any 'or your airs, as I shall not regard
them, or reverence your godship."
Upon this salutation, l\Iatthews lowered his pre-
tensions, and began to converse like any other man.
He inquired what people said of him out of doors;
what they said of Pierson's death ; and what of his
connection with it; and other questions of the like
general character. To all which an indifft<rent an-
swer of not having heard, or not knowing much
about it, was returned. l\Iatthews, however, was
for once communicative, and expressed a desire to
talk over the whole subject. And here, for the due
understanding of the case, and in justice to another
party, it mnst be observeJ, that l\Irs. * * *, the
original author of the whole chain of fanatical
measures which had prepared the way for Matthews,
had never herself become one of his followers.
She had brought the delusion upon l\Ir. and 1\Irs.
Pierson and the other associate~, but she would
never join the prophet, and, indeed, she endeavoured
to dissuade others from following him. And Mat-
thews, on his part, was jralous of her influence, at
times, over Pierson-considering her a rival of him-
self.
"With this explanation, we proceed : Matthews
said to 1\Jr. 'V--, that Pierson would not have
died, had he not lost his faith in him. Hl'l then
mentioned that about a fortnight before his sickness
Pierson made a visit to the residence of the lady re-
fen·ed to, then living in the country, and on his re-
turn to the house in Third-street, he (Matthew,!)
discovered that he (Pierson) was losing his faith in
IllS DIPOSTURES. 237
him: that when he (Pierson) carne up to Singsing,
just previous to his sickness, he perceived that the
spirit of truth was departing from him : he was still
losing his confidence in him, &c. &c. The
prophet then proceeded to relate the circumstances
of the picking of the blackberries by himself and his
son John; but he added, that having discovered
that there was a curse upon the blackberries that
season, he neither ate any of them himself, nor per-
mitted his son to C'at any. Ile dwelt upon the sub-
ject at large; and concluded this branch of his dis-
course by declaring, that notwithstanding the curse
upon the fruit, )'f't that Pierson might nevertheless
have been sm·ed, but for his want of faith in him-
hinting e'·idently at the transfer of his faith to some
one else ; a matter that was well understood.
Having thus got into conversation with him, the
gentleman determined to indulge his curiosity for the
moment, by inquiring into the origin of his prophetic
character. lie asked him, " 1\Iatthias, how long is
it since you supposf'd that there was something pe-
culiar in your character, or ha,•e you but recently
discov~>red it 1"
l\latthews then came and sat down by his side,
placing his hand familiarly upon him, and went into
the whole subject. IIe said that some years previ-
ous to his removing to Albany, when alone one day
at Fort ~[illrr, he had a revelation of his extraor-
dinary character, which re,·elation was afterward re-
peated al Albany. llut by this time he began to
soar into the clouds again. Ile stated that on a
certain day, while walking down South l\Iarket-
238 n!ATTH!AS AriD
street, suddenly he had a view of the New J crnsa-
lem-the folding gates of which spontaneously
opened at his approach. A sort of mist at first ob-
scun·d his vision, but that soon passed away, and he
stood amid the blazing glories of the place-ra-
diant with ineffable light. lie proct·edcrl to give a
gorl!:eons description of the ~plenclour which shone
and flashNI above and around him ; and in conclu-
sion dcclarf'cl that he then and there first received I
his commission in the cau,-e of tf·mperance, and to
break down all SPCrct societif'•. lmmediatt"ly there-
after he cornmrncecl his ministry.
This \}'as on the 1st day of October, and the
time of proceeding to business having arrived, the
examiuation was had bPfore 1\lr. J usticc " 'yman,
the presiding magistrate ; his manner was subdued,
anrl he answered the quc~tions pttt to him in a mild
low tone of voice. The following is the substance
of his statf'ments, almost litf'rally in hi ~ own word~.
"1\'Ty name is 1\latthias, which is the name [ in-
herited from my f."lther; 1 am f<>rty-six years old,
and was horn at Cambridge, ""ashington county, in
this state. I am a trnvt•ller, hut Zion llill is my
legal home. I am a J ~!_wish l!'~Ch!'r. a .Priehl.Qf.Jhe
\1\lost Jligh-prPaching, saying, and doing all that I
~ do under oath, by virtue of having subscribed to all
~YJ the covPnants that God has made unto man, from
the beginning of the world-ehirf high-priest of the
Jews, nftPr the order of 1\fclchisedPek,-the last
chosen of the apostles nnd the first. of the resurrec-
tion, which is at the rnd of 2300 yrars after the build-
ing of Jrrusalem by Cyrus, and 1260 after tho
IllS Ull'OSTUI\ES. 239
birth of the false prophet l\lahomet, whose power
ended in 18:30. [ am now denouncing a judgment
on the Gt•ntile~, which is to he cxPcnted in this pre-
sent age. All the blood, from Z!'chariuh to the
death of the last witness, is required of this g('IJe-
ration, and before this generation passeth away, the
jndgnwnt shall be fulfilled. I am the spirit of truth,
and I dt•clare these things, and that the hour of
God's judgment is at hand.
"In my eharacter of prracher, I have endeavoured
to impress all m<'n with the tmth and importance of
the doctrines [ have just stated, but not more upon
1\lr. Folger than othPrs.
" I have never told him that I posses~ed the
power of life and death, and the rcrni~sion of sins; (i'
nor that if he believed in mr. he would be saved,
and if he did not that he would be damned. But I '):f
have declan·d to him and to all, that they must obey
the dictates of the spirit of truth in all thing~, as '""'
did .Jesus of Na?:nreth. r say that my pPrson is a
trumpet whrreby the Sf!irit of truth speaks, and de-
clares that all mu~t hf'lieve in that spirit and obey
its dictates, wherrhy they will be saved; and that
if th<'y <lo not, they will be damned.
" rn all my prPaehin~, and esp<'cially to strang<'rs,
I have always declared that I could receive nothing
from them as a gift of their property, hut that, if
th11y hf'Ji.,vcd themselves to have prop<'rty which
belonged to God, they might give it to me, if they
pleased, aH hiH servant; and I have never received
any thing in any other way from any person, since I
begun to preach the everlasting go8pel. Mr. Fol-
240 MATT!liAS AND
ger, 1\Ir. Pierson, and Mr. l\1. said they believed
me to be the Father, qualified and ordained to es-
tablish the kingdom of God upon earth ; and for
that purpose Zion Hill was made oyer to me, with
all the furniture, carriages, and other things belong-
ing to it ; the furniture and other things in the house
No. 8 Third-street, in this city, were also made
over to me, and the house itself was to be made
over also, but Mr. Pierson died before the deed was
executed. A bill in Chancery was afterward filed
against me, and I consented to restore the property ;
but I still claim it for the purpose of establishing
God's kingdom upon earth, as the beginning of
which it was originally conveyed to me.
"Jn June or July, 1833, as near as I can recol-
lect, l\lr. Folger invited me to make his house my
horne, and I did reside with him a short time-that
was before the property was transferred to me.
"I have received from him at various times gold in
exchange for bank notes of my own ; there were va-
rious money transactions between him, and l\lr. Pier-
son, and me, in which we accommodated each other
as occasion required. I have received money from
l\Ir. Folger at different times, to what amount I can-
not say precisely, but I remember that at one time
I had of him the sum of twenty-seven hundred dol-
lars. From him and lHr. Pierson I have received
in all about ten thousand dollars, but five thousand
of this were in a bond and mortgage originally given 1
to secure Mrs. Folger that sum of her 011 n sepa- 1
rate estate, and afterward transferred to me. All :(
,the money I received has been expended in furnish- '
HIS !)!POSTURES. 241
ing the establishments at Zion Hill, and No. 8
Third-street, and in defraying the expenses at both
those houses. I acted in all these matters in per-
fect good faith, as the Father. 1\Ir. Folger has the
bills of all the payments I made."
After this examination he was committed for
trial. But in consequence of the appearance of the
examination in the morning papers, at full length, l\Ir.
Folger made the following communication through
the Commercial Advertiser of the following day:-
TO THE PUBLIC.
I had intende<l, by the advice of sc1·cral judicious friends, not
to have noticed any of the statements of the impostor Matthias,
or of the wild rumours growrng 01it of the delusion I have been
under in reference to him; hut as the statements marie by him
in his exomination before the Police yesterday, as published in
the morning papers, are calculated to injure me seriou:.;ly, I
think it best to deny those statements, the object of them, with
Jl!atthias, bein~. no doubt, to crush me if possible. I have no
objection that Matthias, or any one else, Rhould state the whole
truth in reference to any tr2.nsact10n of mme, but that which
is totally untrue I must protest against, ami, when necessary,
meet and refute.
Matthias stated in his examination yesterday, that on one oc-
casion he received from me $2,700; this is true as far as it
goes ; but the whole truth is this: that early in the present year
I sold a property, for which the party paid me about three o'clock
-too late to be deposited in the bank that afternoon. I was
going to Hartforcl that afternoon in the steamboat, and fearing to
take it in my pocket, !left it in his charge for safe-keeping until
my return, whi<·h was in about forty-eight hours; so that he did
in fact rt>ceive $2,700 from me, and kept it until I returned, when
I received 1t again from him.
The statement about a mortgage of ~5,000, either on my place
at Singsing-, or any other property to secure that sum to the
estate of Mrs. Folger, is totally untrue. No such mortgage was
e''er given.
As it regards ~[r. Pierson having directed that a deed of
Third-street property should be given, it is entirely new to me-
and he is not livmg to state what he did say to Matthias. I
know nothing about it, but l do not think he ever directed it, for
X
242 !'II ATTHIAS AND
the simple reason, that when he is said fo have done it Iwaslargely
in advance to him in joint speculations, and he knew that I felt
no disposition to be any more so. All I ask of my friends is, to
be cautious in receiving the statements of this deceitful crea.
ture, and leave me to manage all my concerns with him. To
all who are interested l can exhibtt a perfectly clear statement
of my concerns, and satisfy them that l have and shall act up-
rightly wtth all men.
BENJAMIN H . FoLGER.
On the 16th of October, Matthews was arraigned
before the Court of Sessions, on an indictment found ~
by the Grand Jury, setting forth in substance that
"The said Robert l\Iatlhias, devising and intending
by unlawful ways and means to obtain possession
of the moneys, goods, chattels, and effects of divers
good people of the state of New-York, and to de-
fraud and cheat Benjamin H. Folger, did falsely
pretend that he was God the Father-had power to
forgive sins and to communicate the Holy Ghost,
and that if the said 13. H. Folger would provide
him with money, he the said B. H. Folger would
have God's blessing. That the said B. H. Folger
believing those representations, gave the said Mat-
thias one hundred pieces of gold coin, of the value of
five hundred and thirty dollars, and one hundred dol-
lars in bank notes, which the said 1\Iatthias feloniously
received by means of the false pretences aforesaid."
Matthews by his counsel pleaded not guilty, wav-
ing whatever legal objections might be taken to the
indictment, and the trial was postponed until the
November term. Something was said by the pris-
oner's counsel in the nature of an application for his
discharge on bail, but the district attorney intimat-
ing that a wat:mnt had been issued in ·westchester
county against Matthews on a capital charge (for the
IllS IYIPOSTURES. 243
murder of l\Ir. Pierson) the application was not
persisted in, and he was remanded to prison.
On the Sth of November he was again placed at
the bar of the court, dressed in his richest and most
fantastic garb, with his pink-lined green coat, crim-
son sash, lace·ruflles at his wristbands, a silver
sun upon the left and stars of the same metal on the
right side of his breast. lie appeared cheerful, and
conversed freely with those about him.
The District Attorney intimated to the court that
he had strong doubts whether the indictment could
be sustained, even admitting; that the alleg;ations set
forth in it could be established. lie had laid all
the facts in his possession before the Grand Jury,
and stated to them his doubts as to their constitu-
ting an indictable offence, but they had thought it
their duty to find the bill. There were two difficul-
ties in the case ; to make out an indictable oflence,
it would be necessary to show, first, that the repre-
sentations made by l\Iatthews were such as were
calculated to impose on a man of ordinary prudence
and understanding, and, second, that they were
false ; and·both these matters he thought it would
be impossible to prove. Things might be averred
which the majnrity of the community would never
belicvc-ahsurditi{'s at which reason revoltP.d ; but
where was the testimony to Jlrore them false 1 So
f.·u as the prosecutor was concerned, he had to say
that the gentleman did not wish the case to proceed
any fitrther; and here the Di4rict Attorney read the
following note from l\Ir. Folger to his counsel,
244 MATTillAS AND
"New- York, Oct. 23, 1834.
"DEAR StR,
"l\Ir. Huffman, as I understand you, having expressed strong
doubts in regard to the indictment against Matthms being sus-
tained., and it being likewise your own, as well as that of seve-ral
other lawyers, in whose opinions I have confidence, I think 1t
would be best to discontinue the proceedings altogether. If you
think it is proper, do so; I should think it would be best to ask
the District Attorney to d1smiss the case-the offence charged
upon him not being an indictable one-an1l release the crealure
entirely. His day-so far as pass~ng himself for a pur~ and ~tp·
right man-has passed, and there IS no danger of lus tmposmg
upon any one here or elsewhere.
"\Vith respect and esteem, yours,
"llJo~NJAMIN H. FoLGER"
After reading this document, the District Attor-
ney, saying that he believed the indictment could not
be sustained, and that fluther inquiry would only
tend to mal{e 1\Ir. Folger and his family more un-
happy than they were already, moved the Court to
enter a nolle-prosequi. The Court said they would
look into the indictment, and decide on the follow-
ing 1\ionday whether the case should or should not
be proceeded in.
In the afternoon of the same day the following
note from 1\Ir. Folger appeared in the Commercial
Advertiser.
New- ]'"ark, 1\rovember 8, 1834.
MEssRs. EDITORs :-1 am informed by my friends that the
notice in the morning papers of the proceedings in Court in
reference to Matthias, has led some to suppose that I have re-
lapsed into a belief in him and his blasphemous doctrines. Lest
it should be so supposed, you will do me a favour to state dis-
tinctly in your paper of tlli• evening that I have long since re-
nounced his doctrines entirely, and belie\'e him to be one of the
most base and deceitful beings on earth. This is likewise the
opinion of every member of my family, and my object is now to
rid myself of him and those connected with him, with as little
trouble as possible. Mr. Pierson, myself, and family, have been
HIS IMPOSTURES. 245
deeply, very deeply deluded, deceived, and imposed upon; and
I regret exceedingly that the formf'r could not have been spared.
to witness the f} epp deception. \\'e arc sensible of our error-
we repent tt sincerely; and although we cannot expect to re.
cover, at preseut, the sttuation which we held in society previous
to our ac41mintancc wtth this nle creature, yet, in time, we
shall be at.Jle to show that we are cneuues to hun, and all who
und~rtake to sustam hun in h.is wickedness and plans to de.
stroy us.
BENJAMIN H. li'oLGER.
On Tuesday, the 11th of N 0\·ember, the Re-
corder, presiding in the Court of Sessions, on being
applied to by the lJistrict Attorney tor the decision
of the court in the matter of the indictmeut, stated
that he had that morning received a warrant from a
justice of the peace in the county of Westchester,
with an endorsement thereon by James Hopson, one
of the police magistrates of the city of New-York,
to whom it had been sent (according to the requisi-
sition of the statute), allo\\ing the same to be served
in the city. That the comt had taken the whole
matter into consideration, and had arrived at the
unanimous conclusion that it would become them to
yield the prisoner first for trial on the graver charge;
if he should be acquitted on that, it would then be
time for the court to act on the minor indictment.
This course was very strenuously opposed by the
counsel for the prisoner, but their arguments failed
to shake the determination of the court, and l\Iat-
thews was acconlingly surrendered into the custody
of the sheriff onrestchester.
The legal proceedings that have recently taken
place respecting him in that county will form the
~ubject of the ensuing chapter. l\Ieantime, there
X2
246 MATTHIAS .AND
are two or three matters belonging to the history,
which will be disposed of in the present.
From the bankruptcy of Mr. Folger, and the
melting away of the estate of .Mr. Pierson, it has 1
been supposed that Matthews was himself the
swindler. Such, however, is probably not the fact,
to any greater extent than the amount of money ex-
torted by him from his disciples, to lavish in pro-
curing the fantastical decorations of his person, and
the means of his voluptuous living. l\Ir. Folger
estimates his loss, directly, by his association with
Matthews, at four thousand five hundred dollars.
His failure was produced, first, by the withdrawal
of bank accommodations, in consequence of the
peculiar state of mind under which he appeared to
be labouring, and, secondly, by the failure of a friend
for whom he was an endorser. The following
letter from him to one of the household at Singsing,
stated, and doubtless truly, the immediate cause of
his stopping payment. It also throws some light
upon the condition of his own mind at the time. It
is rather light and gay for a devotee, and the con-
cluding paragraph shows that the community at
.Mount Zion were not ignorant of the opinions of
the world as to the disordered state of their intellects.
It is without date, but must have been written early
in .March, 1834 :-
"'\\·ell, Tommy, how does thee do, now.a.days ?'
"'Sad, sad enough, Benjamin, for the bottom is all aut!'
"The above was my salutation of Tommy F-, the first
time I met him after his failure. I am reminded of it just now
by the great muss things are getting into here. Mr. - , very
unexpectedly to me, and himself too, determined upon stopping
HIS IMPOSTURES. 247
to-day: but upon my insisting that he should demand from the
holders of tile note due to-day an extension, that I might have
time to put things right, he did It; and l shall continue to pay until
Wednesday or Saturday. l\lr. --'s fatlure will he a very bad
one. He will not be able to protect me or anyhody else in our
endorsements, and there is not, therefore, ar.y escape that I can
sec, but that l must stop,and a half-dozen others. But, of course,
'this ts for the court only. I have written Judge K-- a letter
this evening, and I send enclosed a copy of it, which please read
and burn.
"It i; quiet in Third-street, when Mrs. A-- is out of the
room (but never when she is in 1t), as a churchyard; and, as I
am rather inclined to a quiet turn of mind, it is delightful! One
month of it, I should thmk, would knock the bottom out of Jew
or Genttle.
"Sanity mul Insanity.-Everybody thinks his neighbour mad,
if his pursuits happen to be oppostte to llis own. Hts neighbour
thinks the same of him: but then these two kinds of madness
do not interfrre with each other. Then there comes an eccen-
tric man, wbo, taking a just view of things, thinks them all mad
-him they woul<llock up. I appoint Edward to kiss the whole
tribe for me. I am the same
ONE."
l\Ir. Folger failed, as he foresaw he must do
when he wrote this letter, and from the causes men-
tioned therein and elsewhere.
l\Ir. Pierson and Mr. Folger both suffered in
their estates very severely, from other causes, one
of which tells a darker tale of human depravity, than
(aside from the conduct of l\Iatthews) has been re-
corded yet in the present volume. There is no
doubt of the fact, that there were a set of thorough-
bred knaves hanging about the skirts of Pierson and
Folger-more especially the former-a knot of har-
piPs, who, availing themselves of the delusion by
which thosP gentlemen were blinded, sported with
their credulity under pretext of joining the associa-
tion, but in reality to plunder them of their property.
248 niATTIIIAS AND
Such an impression has long been entertained by
those conversant with their pecuniary concerns, and
'when circumstances previously known are com-
pared with some of the private, but imperfect,
memoranda left by 1\Ir. Pierson, the proof is as
clear as could be desired, that there was indeed a
combination of robbers who plundered them, though
the evidence is not exactly such as can bring home
the facts, in a legal form, to a court and jury. The
loose papers just referred to, contain various entries
of moneys advanced, or rather given, to these people.
To one individual, on a certain occasion, he gave
the sum of one thousand dollars, by direction, as he
supposed, of the Holy Spirit, and with a promise
from the same source that he should receive three
fold in return. Pierson and Folger were likewise
inveigled into various unfortunate specuhttions in
patented inventions, by which many sums of money
were lost. lVhat some ofthese unlucky adventures
were, the reader will discover by the following prayer,
taken from the papers of the forlJI2r :~
Nov. 12th, 1833. Spirit of Truth! guide us into the ri11ht way
concerning the globe stove, self-loading cart, (and] planmg rna-
rhine. Manifest thy mind concerning these thmgs, that we may
know and do thy pleasure.
1 ask that the evil spints may have no power to hinder the
successful and beneficial operation of these things.
0 Lord God, let not the enemies triumph over us, but saud
help, such as is peeded.
We[!] consecrate the gain to the building of thy kingdom.
Now, Lord God, hear this my prayer.
They likewise embarked to a considerable extent
in speculations of real estate-always under the di-
HIS DIPOSTURES. 249
rection of the Holy Spirit-1\Ir. Pierson having the
vision, and 1\Ir. Folger making the purchases and
sales. These were not all unsuccessful, but no
very great profits were realized. And even had
there been, the avails would have been swallowed
up in the stock operations which 1\Ir. Pierson sup-
posed he was making by the same Divine direction.
The following is a copy of one of his spiritual
missi1·es, to 1\Ir. Folger, to purchase stock:-
Jwu 3, 1833. ·wrote ton. H. Folger: "Now is the accepted
time; buy three hundred shares. Let it be left with thee til
sell, and l will direct. More than ten will he obtained for it.
Cost, 105 per cent."
The stock was purchased, and a heavy loss was
the consequence. But enough has been written
upon this branch of the subject, and it is time to
shift the scene.
250 MATTIIIAS Aim
CHAPTER IX.
Trial of Matthews before the Court of Oyer and Terminer in
Westchester-First, as to the question of his sanity-Second,
on the indictment for murder-Third, for the assault and bat-
tery upon his daughter, Mrs. Laisdell.
THE warrant upon which l\Iatthews had been sur-
rendered by the civil authorities of New-York to
those of the county of 'Yestchester, was issued
upon information as to the circumstances attending
l\Ir. Pierson's death, contained in the deposition of
1\Irs. Dratch-the female mentioned in the narra-
tive of lVIr. Folger, who came to their residence
during the illness of the deceased, and remained
there until his death. l\Irs. Dratch, it will be re-
collected, came there for pecuniary assistance. The
following is a copy of the deposition referred to :
"l\[rs. Dratch testifies, that on the 11th of August, 1834, she
came from New-York, with the intention of visiting l\Ir. Pier~
son, he having bern many years her particular friend. When
she reached his house, she saw Matthias, who appeared to he
much excited, nnd told her th•t Mr. Pierson was sick, and that
she could not then srr him. llut on repealing her request, was
put off, and answered by Matthias, that when il!r. Pierson came
from the bath, ~he might sec him. \Yhcn night came on, she
was ur~ed hy MaTthias to go to ued, which she did from fear,
and slept but little, and in the morning was told that Mr. Pier-
son was dead, but no one could tell by what means; but she
heard him UtlC'r several groans rlnring the night, and in the
morning, when she arose, was told by Matthias that he wa~
HIS DIPOSTURES. 251
dead. No person in the house could tell how he came by his
death; aud she has the impression on her mind, that ~I atthias
has, by some means, been instrumental in his death. And hav~
ing seen the certificate of four respectable physictans, that some
unwholesome or deadly substance was found in the stomach of
Pierson, she founds her belief thereon that he has been pois-
oneJ, and thf"refOre 011 this evidence the undersigned gave his
warrant. "CHARLEs YEo, \Vestchester county."
The reader would hardly suppose from the terms
of this deposition, that the informant was on such
apparently friendly terms with l\Iatthews, during the
illness of her friend and benefactor, as appeared to
be the case while she was there. Still, upon such
testimony, and from the evidence of the physicians
who examined the body of the deceased,* the Grand
Jury was unquestionably right in finding a bill.
Thursday the 16th of .April, 1835, was assigned
for the trial of J\Iatthews on the indictment for the
murder of l\lr. Pierson, but on account of the ab-
sence of witnesses the case was deferred until the
next day. On returning from the Court to the jail,
he was asked how he felt, and answered, " I feel
that the Lord is my stay, and will be my exceeding
great reward-like gold seven times refined shall I
come out of this fiery furnace ; but as I have lost
my dinner, I am now hungry and weak, and should
like to have a bite of something." He refused to
shake hands with any person, saying, " Know ye not
that it is written, ' touch not the prophet of the
Lord 1' " A young man coming to the door of his
cell expressed a wish "to have a peep at the old
*For the statement o{ Dr. Condit., written by himself for
this work, see Appendix.
252 lUATTIIIAS AND
devil ;" and Matthews sternly rebuked him, saying,
"Young man, I wonder your tongue does not cleave
to your mouth, thus to address the prophet of the
Lord. But it is as in the time of Jesus of Naza-
reth, when they said 'he hath a devil.' "
During his confiuement he had issued a decree
commanding all the farmers to lay aside their
ploughs, declaring, "As I live, there shall be no more
sowing in the earth until I, the twelfth and last of the ~
apostles, am delivered out of the house of bond-
age." He also prophesied that if he were con-
victed, ·white Plains should be destroyed by an
earthquake, and not an inhabitant be left to tell the
tale of its destruction; and strange to say, men
were not found wanting who believed in his absurd
and blasphemous predictions.
Previous to his removal on the day above men-
tioned, he addressed the Court, although informed
he must be silent and leave his cause in the hands
of his counsel, vociferating in a loud voice, "I pro-
test against the proceedings-! learn that evidence
has been taken in secret before the Grand J ury-1
object to all secret institutions, for they are cursed
of God-cursed of God, and were dissolved five
_years ago." These last words were uttered in a
loud voice, and with such extravagance of gesture
that the Court ordered him to be removed ; a com-
mand to which he submitted very readily, but, on
reaching the door, burst forth at the utmost power
of his loud, shrill voice, repeating," Dissolved, dis-
solved, dissolved,'' until he was borne away.
There is some reason to suppose that he did not
IllS DIPOSTURES. 253
commit these extravagances without a motive; at
all events, their effect was to induce the court, on
the suggestion of his counsel that he was insane, to
direct the trial of that issue, before proceeding to the
charge of murder; and a jury was accordingly em-
panelled for that purpose.
The first witness examined as to his sanity or in-
sanity, was Dr. l\Iartyn Paine, of New-York, who
stated his belief that Matthews was not of sound
mind, forming his opinion partly from the extrava-
gant notions entertained by the prisoner, but still
more from the manner in which he expr<lssed them.
He inferred insanity, also, from a peculiar expres-
sion of the prisoner's Pye, which it was difficult to
describe, but which 'vas almost invariably found in
men of disordered intellect. Dr. Paine stated,
however, that l\Jatthews himself denied that he was
insane, and evidently understood what he was doing;
and that his memory was sound and clear.
Dr. David L. Uogers, of New-York, had seen
the prisoner for the first time on the preceding Tues-
day. Dr. Rogers repeated his conversation with
the prisoner, in which the wild and extravagant no-
tions of the latter were detailed at length, and in
which he had stated, among other absurdities, that
he had a controlling power over political affairs;
that he pos~essed the spirit of Jesus of N atllreth ;
that if i\Ir. Pierson had confided in him he would
have been saved from death; but that he (Pierson)
had lost the spirit he had once possessed by preach-
ing it away; that he had been possessed of a mer-
cantile spirit, which he had given to J\Ir. Folger,
y
256 niATTHIAS AND
fairs well. Could see no difference between him
and other men, when he chose to behave rationally.
Doctors Paine and Rogers being recalled by the
prisoner's counsel, statP.d that insane persons are
generally more easily intimidated than men of right
mind. After which the jury were charged by the
court, retired to their room, and returned in about
five minutes with a verdict that the prisoner was
not insane. The opinion of the writer on the ques-
tion thus decided by the jury, ''"ill be expressed else-
where.
On Friday, the 17th, he was again brought up for
trial on the indictment, and, after the facts expected
to be proved had been stated by the District Attorney,
Jesse Bishop was called as the first witness. He
stated that he had known the prisoner and Mr. Pier-
son at SingHing, his residence being within a mile
and a half of that place. Mr. l'ierson and the
prisoner appeared to have the control of the estab-
lishment. Witness saw the dead body of l\'Ir. Pier-
son, about the first week in August, laid out on a
board, in a room in the south part of Mr. Folger's
house. It was covered with a sheet ; the eyes and
mouth were open. The prisoner, l\Irs. Folger, the
woman named Catharine, Mr. Pierson's daughter
Elizabeth, and a hired man named Louis Basil, were
also present. Witness went there at the written re-
quest of the prisoner, to assist in burying 1Hr. Pier-
son. There were bruises on the knees of the body,
but otherwise it was in a natural condition. One
of the hands was closed, but there was no distortion
of the eyes or of the limbs. Witness had heard
IDS DII'OSTURES. 257
the prisoner direct Pierson about a job of work as
he would a hired man. Heard him on one occasion
order Pierson to remove some poles, and when it
was not done promptly, the prisoner said, "when he
wanted a job done, he wi>'hed it done thoroughly."
\Vitness once saw l\Ir. Pierson and the prisoner on
the road, going towards the house, the former walk-
ing before the latter, who was riding one horse and
leading another, which was saddled. Did not per-
ceive any traces of ill-will between them.
l\Ioses Cheny stated that he was sexton, and had
charge of the burying-ground at lHorri£town in
New-Jersey, in which ·l\Ir. Pierson was interred on
the 8th of August. About ten days af1erward the
body was exhumed, anrl examined by Dr. Condit,
who took out the stomach and carried it away.
The body was then buried again, but taken up once
more, lire or six weeks before the trial, and ex-
amined by other physicians.
Dr. Lewis Condit stated that the body of 1\Ir.
Pierson was disinterred in his presence on the 18th
of August. The surface was of a dark chocolate
colour, and the face nearly black. He took out the
stomach, which seemed less changed than any of the
surrounding parts. Its texture was firm and unim-
paired-when first viewed it was contracted into a
small mass and apparently empty. Externally, its
colour was scarcely changed, except in its anterior
portion near the lower orifice, where it showed a
redness. The body was very offensi1·e, but putre-
faction had not commenced in the stomach, and as
Y2
258 MATTHIAS AND
there were traces of inflammation on its outer sur-
face, he took it horne for farther examination.
On opening it, he found near the lower orifice, or
pylorus, a substance resembling wet chalk, or
calomel, of a dingy whitish colour, in quantity equal
to eight or ten grains of calomel. A spot or patch
of a bright red colour, about three inches in diameter,
wae found on the fore-part of the stomach, on the
innrr smface, corresponding with a similar red spot
on the outside ; and it was here that the whitish sub-
stance was found. Half an inch higher was an-
other red spot, about half as large as the first, and
near them both were three or four others, about the
size of a twenty-five cent piece, and of a dark brown
colour. The mucous membrane, or inner coat of
the stomach, immediately under these spots, was
soft, pulpy, and disorganized. Under this mem-
brane extravasated blood was found, which gave the
dark colour to the brown spots. The muscular
coat, beneath this extravasated blood, was of a bright
red colour, with increased thickness of substance,
and enlargement of blood vessels. The stomach
contained nothing except the powder above men-
tioned, and a small quantity of mucus. The
stomach, with the powder, was placed in a close jar,
and sent to Dr. Torrey of New-York, in order that
they might be analyzed.
On the 21st of March, 1835, the body was again
disinterred, and found to be considerably advanced
in decay. The msophagus, or gullet, was taken
out, as were also portions of the intestines, and car-
ried home for examination. The msophagus was _
HIS IMPOSTURES. 259
found reddened in its upper portion, and somewhat
thickened, but the remainder presented a natural
appearance. The intestines were firm and unyield-
ing, showing no traces of redness or decay. It was
remarked on opening the abdomen, immediately
over the intestines, that the flesh was not more de-
composed than it usually is in subjects a few days
afler death. llut little offensive odour was perceived
at the grave, and that of the intestines, on opening
them, was precisely like the smell of smoked her-
rings.
lloth of the examinations were made in the pres-
ence of the same physicians, namely, Doctors Can-
field, Johns, and the two Condits; and they were
unanimously of opinion, after the first, that the death
of :L\Ir. Pierson was not the result of natural causes,
or of any known Jisease, and that there was great
reason to believe that it had been occasioned by
some poisonous substance. This opinion was re-
duced to writing, and signed by them all. They
were all subpmnaed to attend the trial, and all at-
tended except Dr. Canfield ; but only the two Doc-
tors Condit were examined, and their examina.tion
was limited almost exclusively to the appearances
of the stomach. They were not called upon to cite
authorities, or to show the reasons on which their
opinion was founded.
Dr. Nathan W. Condit was then examined, and
confirmed the statements of the last witness as to
the appearance of the body, stomach, msophagus,
and intPstines. He was led to suspect poison, but
he could not say positively that poison had been
258 MATTHIAS AND
there were traces of inflammation on its outer sur-
face, he took it home for farther examination.
On opening it, he found near the lower orifice, or
pylm·us, a substance resembling wet chalk, or
calomel, of a dingy whitish colour, in quantity equal
to eight or ten grains of calomel. A spot or patch
of a bright red colour, about three inches in diameter,
wa" found on the fore-part of the stomach, on the
inner surf.'lcc, corresponding with a similar red spot
on the outside; and it was here that the whitish sub-
stance was found. Half an inch higher was an-
other red spot, about half as large as the first, and
near them both were three or four others, about the
size of a twenty-five cent piece, and of a dark brown
colour. The mucous membrane, or inner coat of
the stomach, immediately under these spots, was
soft, pulpy, and disorganized. Under this mem-
brane extravasated blood was found, which gave the
dark colour to the brown spots. The muscular
coat, beneath this extravasated blood, was of a bright
red colour, with increa"ed thickness of substance,
and enlargement of blood vessels. The stomach
contained nothing except the powder above men-
tioned, and a small quantity of mucus. The
stomach, with the powder, was placed in a close jar,
and sent to Dr. Torrey of New-York, in order that
they might be analyzed.
On the 21st of March, 1835, the body was again
disinterred, and found to be considerably advanced
in decay. The resophagus, or gullet, was taken
out, as were also portions of the intestines, and car-
ried home for examination. The resophagus was
HIS IMPOSTURES. 259
found reddened in its upper portion, and somewhat
thickened, but the remainder presented a natural
appearance. The intestines were firm and unyield-
ing, showing no traces of redness or decay. It was
remarked on opening the abdomen, immediately
over the intestines, that the flesh was not more de-
composed than it usually is in subjects a few days
after death. But little offensive odour was perceived
at the grave, and that of the intestines, on opening
them, was precisely like the smell of smoked her-
rmcrs.
Both of the examinations were made in the pres-
ence of the same physicians, namely, Doctors Can-
field, Johns, and the two Condits; and they were
unanimously of opinion, after the first, that the death
of .l\Ir. Pierson was not the result of natural causes,
or of any known uisease, and that there was great
reason to believe that it had been occasioned by
some poisonous substance. This opinion was re-
duced to writing, and signed hy them all. They
were all subpmnaed to attend the trial, and all at-
tended except Dr. Canfield ; but only the two Doc-
tors Condit were examined, and their examination
was limited almost exclusively to the appearances
of the stomach. They were not called upon to cite
authorities, or to show the reasons on which their
opinion was founded.
Dr. Nathan W. Condit was then examined, and
confirmed the statements of the last witness as to
the appearance of the body, stomach, msophagus,
and intPstines. lie was led to suspect poison, but
he could not say positively that poison had been
260 IliATTHIAS AND
administered. The appearances certainly indicated
poison, but he should consider the detection of it
necessary to produce conviction that it had been
used.
[The District Attorney consented to admit that
Dr. Torrey had examined the stomach of the de-
ceased l\lr. Pierson, and was unable to discover
any poison in it.]
Mrs. Ann Folger was the next witness, but as
her testimony corresponded fully and throughout to
the statement already very minutely given in Ibis
volume, in that part of it which is indicated as the
narrative of l\Jr. and !\Irs. Folger, it is here omit-
ted, with the exception of some few particulars not,
it is believed, di•tinctly included in the narrative.
1Ve give them in her own language, as taken down
by the reporter.
"I had heard of Matthews, and received his doc-
trines through Mr. Pierson, before I knew him per-
sonally. Mr. Pierson was a firm believer in his
doctrines, so far as I could judge. I also became
a believer in them generally ; but Mr. Folger was
more disposed to doubt than either 1\Ir. Pierson or
myself. Catharine Galloway was also a believer,
and acted as such. Those in the house who be-
lieved in him, considered him their Father, and as
God the Father, possessing the Holy Ghost, and
all power to bestow his Spirit on whom he would.
"\'Ve also believed that he had power to execute
wrath, and regarded him as the last trumpet, an-
swering to all the angels of wrath, or executing an-
gels spoken of in the Revelations. He claimed all
lllS JlllPOSTURES. 261
these powers ; and we believed that he not only
could, but did possess the power of casting out de-
vils. He claimed this power, and averred that he
had east out devils. \Ve were required to obey his
commands in all things, for he said that he had a
right to be obeyed. He had the command of every
thing in the household. I would go to him some-
times for directions, and he would say that the spirit
would dir<:>ct, and then I would await his answer.
If I did not conform to his wishes, he would say
that although I had his spirit, I had also a spirit
somewhere else. " 'hen displeased, he was exceed-
ingly violent, of which his conduct in Court yester-
day is but a faint specimen. He would curse us
bitterly, and tell us we were lost creatures ; and we
believed him. He said he would save us, but we
must get rid of the evil spirit, and have a better one,
which he would give us, if we asked for it. He
attended to all the temporalities of the house, and
we held ourselves responsible to him for all that was
done.
"In August last, when l\Ir. Pierson died, he
claimed to own the house and property. There
had been some ill-will between them, which began
when l\Iatthews was ordered away from Singsing.
He censured l\Ir. Pierson, among other things, for
not tilling the ground. He claimed the first-fruil9
of every thing·-of the chickens, and the peas in the
garden ; but if he was not at horne, we used them
until he returned. lie claimed the first of every
·thing at table, and had a coach and horses at his
exclusive command. I was told once by him and
262 MATTHIAS AND
Mr. Pierson, that when he went out riding one day
and stopped to water their horses, Mr. Pierson's
horse would lie down in the brook, whereupon he
got off and walked because the horse was wet. The
farm was wholly managed by Matthews, and 1\:Ir.
Pierson would not put any seed in the ground until
directed to do so by him. Mr. Pierson died on the
5th of August, between one and two o'clock in the
morning.
" ·when Mr. Pierson ate the blackberries, he ap-
peared to be the special object of Matthews' censure,
because he had helped himself to more than his
share. It was the prisoner's ordinary practice to
set food apart for himself, and any one who dipped
his hand in the same dish with him was considered
a Judas.
"lVhen Mr. Pierson was ill and dying, the reason
why nothing was done for him, was, because we
thought the evil spirit must be mortified and torment-
ed until it should come out of him. We all sin-
cerely wished his recovery, but nothing was done
for him except washing his head and putting him in
the bath. No physician was sent for, because Mat-
thews held that physicians, ministers, and lawyers, '
were the greatest evils in the world. I sincerely
believed that there was no need of any medicine to I
cure l\Ir. Pierson. If I had depended ~n my own 1
strength and experience, I should have resorted to 1
the same means for his recoverv that I had before
been accustomed to ; but my confidence was then
in Matthews, who, I thought, would deliver him ;
and we all believed that if we cried or called might.
IUS IMPOSTURES. 263
~ ily upon the Father, he would be cured. I consid-
red myself a woman of prayer, but we were for-
idden to pray to any God but 1\Iatthews. I did
, ot think l\lr. Pierson's life in danger, for I believed
e would live for ever. I also believed that the last
nemy to be destroyed was death, and that l\lat-
hews had come to destroy that enemy. l\'lr. Pier-
on's fits were called by l\latthews 'fifty devils.'
fter they had become more violent at Singsing,
, here was a twisting of the arm and head, and he
ied in that position. Elizabeth, 1\Ir. Pierson's
aughter, although somewhat fickle, was obedient
nd aflectionate to her father. She also obeyed
Iatthews, and was a believer.
" It was understood that the Father held all the
roperty for the benefit of those who belonged to
he kingdom. A community of interest in all the
roperty was part of the doctrine, but no one pre-
umed to call any part of it his or her own, except
Iatthews. lie would often say to me, 'How dare
ou say so to me in my house 1' He was severe
nd ofllmded if the house, and every thing in it, were
ot called his own."
The District Attorney then produced in evidence
lease from l\Ir. Pierson to the prisoner, of the
ouse and farm at l\lount Zion, near Singsing, .for
he term of ninety-nine years, at the rent of one dol-
ar per annum, subject to a mortgagll of thirty-five
undred dollars ; and a surrender of this lease, exe-
uted by the prisoner on the first of August, 1834,
n favour of Elizabeth, the daughter of l\lr. Pier-
264 MATTHIAS AND
son.'* Also, a bill ofsale of all the personal property
at :Mount Zion, amounting to eight hundred and
ninety-one dollars and fifty-eight cents, a bill of sale
and inventory of Mr. Pierson's furniture &c. in the
house No. 8 Third-street, in the city of New-York,
executed on the twenty-third of December, 1833.
The object of these transfers, as stated in the in-
struments, was to aid in setting up the kingdom of
God. The value of the property in New-York was
stated in the inventory to be twenty-five hundred
and thirty-eight dollars.
Catharine Galloway was next examined. She
stated that she was the wife of a man who had lived
as a servant in the house of l\lr. 1\I. H. S. while
the prisoner resided there, and wns a believer in
him before his acquaintance with 1\Ir. and 1\Irs.
Folger: that she went to live at 1\Iount Zion in
February preceding the death of l\lr. Pierson, and
remained there until after his death. She firmly
believed in the doctrines of Matthews, and stated
them, as also his conduct, exactly as they were set
forth by :Mrs. Folger. She was reluctant to
* The attention of the writer has been directed to the conduct
of Matthews, touching these conveyances of the real estate at
Singsing, as going to prove his sanity, by a professional gentle-
man well acquainted with the atf.1irs of the enthusiasts. Mat-
thews, it is said, first took a deed of the premises; but recol-
lecting that in the contingency of his death his widow would be
entitled to dower in this estate, he gave up the deed and took the
lease for ninety-nine years. This lease he had surrendered; as
just mentioned in evidence, but in a conversation with the pro-
fessional gentleman referred to, he declared he had been com-
pelled to give it up under duress; the act was therefore not of
le~al and binding force upon him ; and he avowed his deter-
mmation to claim and recover the property after his_release. . I
IllS niPOSTURES. 265
go into the room where the bath was ordered by
Matthews for 1\Ir. Pierson, but he looked hard at
her, and she said, " Father, I will go, if you say
so;" he replied, "I say so ;" and she went in and
assisted in bringing water. When she heard l\Ir.
Pierson fall, she was induced to rise from her chair
and say, "Father, shall I go 1" and he said, "No;
you are always the first to go." She accordingly
sat down again. She saw l\Ir. Pierson while they
were giving him the bath, but not again until after
he was dead. She did not recollect that any quarrel
had taken place between l\Iatthews and him imme-
diately before his death. '\"hen l\Iatthews was dis-
pleased with any members of the community he
would curse them, and say they should be chained
in the bottomless pit, of which he had the key ;
sometimes he would threaten them with annihilation.
He taught them that sickness was caused by spirits,
which were to be driven out by prayer and resistance;
she was treated in that way when she was ill, and
so were all the other members of the household.
None were permitted to have any medicine, but
they were required to ha1·e faith in l\Iatthews, who
would remove all their ailments.
The testimony was here closed ; the prisoner's
counsel moved for his discharge, on the ground that
no evidence had been produced to convict him either
of murder or manolaughter; and the District At-
torney replied, being several times interrupted by
the prisoner, who exclaimed, "that's a lie-all a
lie !'' in relation to particular statements made by
the gentleman. The court decided that sufficient
z
266 lllATTHIAS AND
testimony h11d not been produced to carry the charge
of murder to the jury, but it was proper for them to
determine whether the pJisoner was or was not
guilty of manslaughter, as having had the control of
the establishment, and stood in such a relation to
the deceased as to make it his duty to provide him
with proper medical attendance. The court we·re
inclined to the opinion that a verdict of guilty could
not be rendered, inasmuch as the weight of the evi-
dence would lead to the conclusion that the death
of the deceased was the result of illness with which
he had been for some time afflicted, and which would
probably have proved ~<tal even without the neglect
and ill-treatment disclosed in the testimony. If it
could be shown that his death was hastened by this
ill-treatment, the prisoner was guilty of manslaughter
in the fourth degree; but the court were of opinion
that sufficient evidence had not been produced to
prove that such was the case.
The counsel for the prosecution then proposed to
re-examine Dr. Condit on the direct question,
"·whether, in his opinion, the death of l\Ir. Pierson
was cauoed by want of care, or nursing, or any of
the kind offices of humanity requisite for a person in
his condition?" The counsel for the prisoner ob-
jected, on the ground that Dr. Condit had not been
present in court during the whole of l\Irs. Folger's
examination ; the court sustained the objection, and
the District Attorney then announced that he had
no farther evidence to offer.
The court then instructed the jury that there was
no evidence showing that the death of Mr. Pierson
I:IIS IMPOSTURES. 267
had been caused by poison, and, in the absence of
sufficirnt evidence to prove that it resulted from cul-
pable neglect or ill-treatment, they would advise an
acquittal: and the jury, thereupon, immediately re-
turned a verdict of not guilty.
On the announcement of this verdict, the prisoner
was evidently elated ; but his countenance fell when
he found that he was to be tried on another indict-
ment for assaulting Isabella Laisdell, his daughter,
with a whip. The indictment also contained a
count against the prisoner for confining the said
Isabella Laisdell against her will.
When the indictment was read, l\Jatthews said,
" This is another branch of the persecution against
me.''
Before the prisoner pleaded to the indictment,
1\Ir. Western rose and read from a paper, as fol-
lows:-
"I hereby acknowledge that I have received full
and ample satisfaction for the assault and battery in
this case, for which the defendant is indicted, and I
respectfully pray the court to enter a nolle p1•osequi
therein, accordingly.
"IsABELLA LAISDELL.
" White Plains, Jlp1·il 18th, 1835."
The reading of this document seemed to take the
District Attorney by surprise, and he requested the
court to order Isabella Laisdell to appear personally
in court, in order that she might be examined on the
subject. The court made the necessary order, and
268 MATTHIAS AND
in a few minutes Isabella Laisdell came into court,
and acknowledged that she had signed the paper,
and forgave her father, and had nothing against him.
The District Attorney urged that she should be
examined as to the circumstances of the reconcilia-
tion or compromise, which, after some discussion,
the court assented to, and Isabella Laisdell affirmed
and was examined on the subject.
Charles Laisdell, her husband, was then examined,
and refused to concur with his wife in compromising
with the prisoner.
The court then ordered the trial to proceed.
l\lrs. Laisdell stated that she was eighteen years
old-was the daup;hter of the prisoner--and was
married to Charles Laisdell, at Albany, in the month
of December, 1833. At the time of her marriage
she was residing with her mother, her father having
been away from there four or five years. She went
from Albany to Singsing with her two brothers, in
the care of 1\Ir. Folger, on the 15th of January.
On the morning of her arrival, her father chastised
her in his room ; it was on account of her saying
that she would not stay at Singsing, and this she
had said because he told her that her marriage was
void-that she was too young to marry, but that in
proper time she might get a husband. He struck
her once or twice across the shoulders with a cow-
hide ; no other person was present. The next
morning l\lrs. Folger came into her room, saying
she wanted to speak to her ; she answered that she
was not very well, and felt fatigued. 1\lrs. Folger
told her that nobody in that house believed in sick-
IllS IMPOSTURES. 269
ness or dying, and she replied that she would die
before she would believe any such doctrine. This
seemed to displease 1\Irs. Folger, who soon left the
room. A little after, her father came in, and asked
what she had been saying to her mother ; she an-
swereu that her mother was not there, and he said
she must go with him and have the matter righted.
Ife took her to his room, where she found 1\Irs.
Fol!!er preparing to make his bed. 1\Irs. F alger
told him, she (l\frs. Laisdell) had said she would
die rather than obey him ; and her father, without
allowin~ her time to correct the statement, raised a
cowhid<', which he had concealed behind his back,
and strudt her more than twenty blows across her
shouluer~ ; she cried out, but no one came to her
rf'lief. The blows dirl not draw any blood. Five
or six W<'eks afterward thrre was a scar on her arm,
where one of the blows took dfect. Two weeks
after, her father took her in his carriage to New-
y ork, with 1\Ir. and l\Jrs. Fol£rer, to the ho~Jse in
Third-street. She stayed ther~ for four weeks, :tnd
tht>n went back to Sing~ing. She was not com-
p•-llerl to stay there, but had no money, and th<'refore
could not go away. She was well used while she
rl'mainPd with her father, ex<'ept in the affi1ir of the
whipping; he did not prohibit lwr r<'turning to her
hn~band. fie sent for her moth!'T to cnme to Sing-
sing, but she would not come, as she did not agree
with hirn in principles. ·when l\J r. Lai>dell came to
Sing:<ing, lw was invited to the hou,e, but did not
come. The reason why her father disapproved of
her marriage wa~, becau"e she was too young, and
Z2
270 MATTHIAS AND
because he held that marriages were unlawful, ac-
cording to the laws of God. The first whipping
was given her because she was impudent to her
father ; the second was occasioned by misrepre-
sentation of her words, and by her impertinence in
telling him that she was married, and would do as
she pleased. The whipping she considered as
nothing more than the ordinary chastisement inflicted
by a father upon his child for misconduct, and after
it, he was as kind to her as ever. She was neither
sick nor lame after either of the whippings.
Charles Laisdell, the husband of the last witness,
stated that after she had been gone from Albany
about three weeks, he went to Singsing. On his
arrival he inquired for Matthews, and was told that
he was gone to New-York. He called at Mr. Fol-
ger's house there, a few times, where he saw Catha-
rine, the coloured girl, and Mr. Pierson's children,
who ordered him away. He then went to New-
york, to the house in Third·street, where he en-
quired for l\Iatthews. l\Iatthews then came to tbe
door, and he asl<ed to see his wife ; Matthews an-
swered that he had no wife, or that his wife was not
there, and then went in and shut the door. l\Iat-
thews had a sword by his side, and witness was a
little alarmed. His wife was in the house at the
time, but he was not allowed to enter. The next
morning he went again with an officer, but found
that they had all gone. He returned to Singsing,
and saw Matthews, who told him his wife was at
New-York, and wanted him to return to Albany ;
HIS UIPOSTURES. 271
1\Iatthews would not let him see his wife, and said
he had been married by a devil, and that henceforth
none would be married but by him. His wife was
afterward given up to him in Court by an officer,
that being the first time he had seen her since she
left Albany. She had then a sore place on her arm,
from the whipping she had received six weeks be-
fore, and there were also marks on her back. Rev.
Nathaniel S. Prime saw l\lrs. Laisdell's arm, afier
she had been removed from her father's custody ;
the mark extended about a third of the way round
the arm, it was not entirely healed.
The case was here closed, no other testimony be-
ing offered on behalf of the prisoner, and the judge
then charged the jury, who retired and in a few
minutes returned with a verdict of guilty. The
Court then intimated to the prisoner that if he had
any thing to say, he would now be heard, provided
he behaved properly. He was already sentenced to
thirty days imprisonment for his contempt of Court
on a former occasion.
l\IATTlllAS then addressed the Court in a firm
but seemingly somewhat subdued tone. The fol-
lowing are his words verbatim. " I have been con-
fined near seven months, and nothing has been made
out against me, until this last case, and this has
'been a great aflliction to mt, though I ha,·e been
sustained under it, knowing that I was innocent.
The things which are apparent are so because they
misrepresented my doctrines."
CounT--We don't want to hear any thing about
them.
272 ~IATTIIIAS Al'iD
lHATTHJAs-You don't-! was going to termi-
nate by saying, that feeling I was innocent I think
this termination altogether extraordinary and unjust,
and if it is in the power of the Court to make an
oflset in my favour in the latter case, I hope it will.
JunGE RuGGLEs-The prisoner was not confined
on account of the present offence, but the Court
have taken it into con~ideration in determining on
the sentence. He stands convicted of an assault
under peculiar circumstances: under other circum-
stanceH, if punished at all, it would be very lightly.
Rut we find that in the very first interview with his
daughter, he told her that marriages were void, and
endeavoured to inculcate in her the same immorali-
ties that he had already inculcated upon the inmates
of the house. The chastisement was also inflicted
without her deserving it, or allowing her to be heard.
The Court sentences the prisoner to be confined
three months in the county jail, from the termination
of his first sentence.
1'o J\laithias.-1\'e now tell you that the times
for practising those foolish impositions are past. The
Court is satisfied that you are an impostor, and that
you do not believe in your own doctrines. ""e ad-
vise you therefore, when you come out of jail to
shave off your beard, lay aside your peculiar dress,
and go to work like an honest man.
l\lATTHJAs-It is not true.
He was then led out of Court.
Every good man would wish, in the language of
the presiding judge, that " the times for practising
JIIS IMPOSTURES, 273
such foolish impositions were past." But it will be
seen by a suhsequent page, that the spirit of fanat-
icism and delusion is not yet extinct, even in the
city of New-York, notwithstanding the shocking
disclosures that have been made, and the melancho-
ly consequences.
274 MATTHIAS AND
CHAPTER X.
Traits of the Impostor's Character-A Scene in Prison-Anec.
dote-H•s Contempt of Women-Shrewd Comparison-
Adroitness in evadin~ Questions-Casting out a Devil-Con-
Yersations on his muacnlons Gifts-Steamboat Scenes and
Conversations-Interview with a Gentleman of Distinction-
Reflections-Readiness at Repartee-Parallels between Mat-
thews and other lmpostors-Snnon Magus-:lfontanus-John
of Levden-Cochrane-Mysterious lntluence-Summing up
of theImpostor's Character-A Compound of Insanity, Kna·
very, and Self-deception.
IN more than one instance, in the course of the
present work, the term sh1·e1vdness has been applied
to the conduct of Matthews in certain emergencies.
It is not to be understood, however, that the writer
awards to him the possession of any extraordinary
gifts of cunning or of wit. There are those, we are
aware, who allow him credit for no one moral or
intellectual quality-who consider him a perfect and
unimprovable specimPn of ignorance and stupidity;
~ while on the other hand, persons are not wanting
who look upon him as a man by no means devoid
of sense, and withal very adroit. The truth, proba.
bly, as in most cases of conflicting opinions, lies
between the extremes. The writer does not be:
lieve him to be altogether the blockhead which
some suppose, but is, on the contrary, inclined to
award him some degree of shrewdness, with more
HIS niPOSTURES. 275
of native intellect than he has received credit for.
But in order to the better il111stration of his charncter,
a few personal anecdotes have Leen collected from
authentic sources, which will be submitted in the
present chapter, together with two or three reports
of interviews with him, which have been politely fur-
nished the writer by literary gentiPmen of character.
·while confined in the Bellevue prison in October
last, awaiting his examination, prior to his full com-
mitment for trial, the inmates of the prison, suspect-
ing that he had money in his pos~ession, made an
attempt to inflict the discit>line of blanketing him.
The prophet threatened them with eternal torment
if they proceeded. They assured him he must sub-
mit, as it was an ordeal through which all of them
had to pas~. and he was no better than the rest of
them. They then put him into a blanket, several
of them holding the corners of it, and gave him two
or three tosses. The poor prophet, finding that
they were determined to carry their threat into fur-
ther operation, agreed to pay them twenty-five cents
a-piece to let him off. After they had liberated
him, he declared, most truly, beyond a doubt, that
he had been thrown into a " den of thieves.'' The
allusion was more to the point than was always the
case in his references to sacred writ.
·while l\Iatthews was residing at the hotel near
the Battery as heretofore mentioned, a gentleman by
he name ofF-- had also his quarters at the
same place. Not many days afler he had com-
enced boarding there, he was one morning very
amiliarly and abruptly accosted by Matthews, with
276 MATTHIAS AND
whom he had not previously exchanged a syllable.
" Mr. F--," said he, "how long do you think I
have been upon this earth 1" " Indeed, I have no
idea, sir,'' was the reply. " ·well, I ~vill tell you,"
rejoined the prophet ; " more than eighteen hundred
years !" l\Ir. F--, knowing nothing as to the
peculiarity of his character at the time, it may be
imagined, was somewhat surprised at soextraordinary
an annunciation, and scanning him from top to toe,
involuntarily exclaimed, "The d-1 you have; do
you tell me so !" " I do," observed the other.
" Then all I have to say is, that you are a remarka-
bly good-looking fellow for one of your age !"
Matthews put on one of his sardonic grins, and with
an indignant scowl, replied, "You are a devil, sir,"
and walked immediately away.
It will have been seen, as well from the narra-
tive of Mr. and l\Irs. Folger, as from other circum-
stances which have been noted, that Matthews did
not pay that respectful deference to the female char-
acter which is exacted in ~ll respectable society, and
cheerfully awarded in all Christian countries. He
seemed to look upon the sex as an inferior order of
beings, like the Mohammedans, and spoke of them
with sneers and contempt, like the Indians. A
learned and accomplished theologian of New-York
has furnished the following incident, which affords
a pointed and appropriate illustration of this feature
of his character, and is withal rather amusing. It
occurred in the bookstore of Mr. F--, in Broad-
way, a few months before the prophet left the city.
"He entered the store, and abruptly launched out
I
HIS IMPOSTURES. 277
into a kind of soliloquizing rhapsody on the present
state of religion and the prospects of the church.
Without appearing to notice him, I indulged my cu-
riosity a few moments in listening to his wild and
out1·e tirade against the whole existing order of things
religious. Though in the main a medley of •bald
disjointed chat,' yet I was certainly somewhat struck
with a kind of shrewd piquancy in his remarks, and
a vein occasionally approaching to a rude eloquence,
which I can conceive might have no inconsiderable
effect upon an audience of no more cultivation or
refinement than himself. I retain nothing of his
rhodomontade hut the amusing simile he employed
in speaking of the agency of women in sustaining
the benevolent operations of the present day. This,
he said, was but actin~ over the part of the Philis-
tines in sending back the ark of the covenant to the
land of Israel in a cart drawn by cows instead of
oxen. • So it is now,' said he; •the ark of the
Lord is held up and carried by nothing but cmvs.'"
\\"hen likely to be pressed into a corner, l\Iatthews
was frequently dexterous in escaping by evasion,
us in the following instance, which has been related
to the writer by a gentleman who dined with the
prophet several times, at the house of one of his
disciples. The gentleman r..t the first interview,
having no previous knowledge of him, supposed
him, from his costume and appearance, to be a Jew-
ish H.abbi, and, of course, well acquainted with the
H ebrew Scriptures; he took the liberty respectfully
to ask him the literal signification of a certain He-
brew expression. Upon this, :Matthias hesitated a
A a
27S ~fA TTHIAS AND
short time, and then very shrewdly replied, " that he
was asked so many questions, and they took up
so much of his time to satisfy, that he had come to
the resolution to give no answers to any of them."
His proselyte, who was present, appeared to be well
satisfied with this reply, presuming, no doubt, that
the prophet knew all things, and could, if he chose,
give the true explanation required.
In proof of the gift, or power which he asserted,
of working miracles, Matthews related the following
incident to the same gentleman while at table.
Whether the prophet himself did not intend the
anecdote to be rather a specimen of pleasantry, it is
difficult to say. .He stated, that while imprisoned,
in the early part of his career, at Albany, there was
also in confinement a crazy woman, who gave great
annoyance to the inmates, not unfrequently com-
mitting assaults upon them. He met her one day
as he was descending the stairs of the upper avart-
ments, apparently in a furious rage; and having the
Bible in his hand, he brought it in contact with her
face with considerable force, exclaiming, at the same
time, in a high tone of voice, In the name of God
depart fi"om her! which had the desired effect.
She immediately became calm, and in a short time
was dismissed from the prison as cured. He
soon afterward met her in the street, apparently
well.
The subjoined account of an interview with the
impostor, and his assumption of miraculous· gifts,
has been furnished by a literary friend. It also
IllS DIPOSTtiRES. 279
illustrates the facility, already referred to, with which
he was wont to escape an approaching dilemma:-
"I met l\Iatthews accidentally, one afternoon, at
the warehouse of the 1\Iessrs. --, which he had
lately taken it into his head to visit several times.
On my entrance he was sitting upon a box, arrayed
in his green frock-coat and red sash, holding forth
to one of the partners and two or three other gentle-
men standing around him, on the subject of his
pretended divinity. The immediate topic was his
alleged power of working miracles, which he was
maintaining against the skeptical remarks and queries
of his auditory, who were evidently amusing them-
selves with his absurdities. He was ready in an-
swering, and displayed considerable shrewdness in
meeting the dilflculties presented to him-which,
however, were not of a very startling character, as
the comments of the gentlemen were rather of an
ironical turn, than involving any thing like serious
di~putation. l\latthews himself was a very pattern
of gravity-courteous, but never relaxing into a
smile, and continually smoothing down his luxuriant
beard and moustaches, an exercise in which he
seemed to take great delight.
" I listened for a time without joining in the con-
versation, but finally made a remark which 1\Jat-
thcws answered very readily, and for some minutes
the discourse was kept up exclusively bet\veen him
and myself. The subject was still his alleged
miraculous power. I urged him to afford us a
proof of it by working some miracle on the spot;
but he, of course, evaded the demand, very much itt
280 MATTHIAS AND
the usual style of impostors, sometimes by declaring
that it would be an indignity to exert a supernatural
and heavenly power for the mere indulgence of an
idle curiosity, and then again insisting upon the ne-
cessity of our having faith in him, before a miracle
could be made perceptible to our senses. After
some discourse of this kind, I grew tired of his non-
sense, and went away to another part of the ware-
room, where I entered into conversation with some
other gentlemen.
"In the course of fifteen or twenty minutes, I re-
turned to where Matthews was yet sitting, and found
him still 'harping on my daughter,' that is to say,
the miracles. Mr. --, one of the firm, was tell-
ing him, when I came up, that he was suffering much
from the aching of a decayed tooth, and urging him,
with mock gravity, to make that tooth instantly
sound by his divine power; Matthews somewhat
testily replied that he could not work this miracle
unless Mr. - - had faith that he could do so, and
seemed rather anxious to change the subject. To
effect this, as I supposed, he began to tell a long
story about the child of Mr. Folger, which had been
taken very dangerously ill: that a physician was
called in by the parents : that he (1\I.) came to the
house and found the physician there : that he re- ·
buked Mr. and Mrs. Folger for seeking human aid, '
and required them to dismiss the doctor: that they
refused and he insisted : that he told them unless
they did the child would die : that they yielded at
last, sent the doctor away, and he commanded the
child to arise and be well, which was instantly done.
HIS n!POSTURES. 281
The child got up from the bed in perfect health, and
had so continued ever since.
" We, of course, all expressed the requisite
amount of astonishment at this history ; and, at the
first pause in the conversation, I asked, 'How old
was the child 1' ' Quite an infant,' he answered-
' about a year old.' 'Old enough to talk, or to un-
dvrstand what was said to it 1' 'No!' 'You stated
a little while ago, I think, that you could not work
a miracle in behalf of .1\Ir. --, unless he had faith
in you-did you not 1' Matthews looked hard at
me for a few moments, with a cool wary glance,
apparently revolving in his mind the purport of my
query, and then turning suddenly away, answered,
' I was not talking with you-you are an interloper
-you interrupt my conversation with this gentle-
man;' and further speech he vouchsafed me not.
I presume he had discovered the dilemma into
which I was leading him, between his avowed ne-
cessity of faith existing in the party on whom a
miracle was to be wrought, and the impossibility
that such faith could exist in the infant."
The extraordinary community at l\Iount Zion
were fi·equent travellers to and from New-York, both
hy land and water. "'hen on board of a steam-
boat, in which he was often a passenger, he was al-
ways liable, from the strangeness of his eor;tume
and conduct, and from his ridiculous pretensions, to
the jeers and reproache~, and sometimes to the har-
assing: treatment of his fellow passengers. He had
no di~crction; and 11 was an easy matter to arouse
his passions to the highest degree of exasperation-
A a 2
282 MATTHIAS AND
at which times his miraculous and divine powers
contributed not a little to the amusement of the by-
standers. On one of these occasions, Matthews
having boasted of these exalted attainments, an ath-
letic farmer proposed to test the extent of his powers
by casting him overboard, that he might remove the
skepticism ofthe incredulous multitude by walking on
the water. The prophet did not relish the proposi-
tion, which was prevented by the interference of the
captain. At another time, the same hardy yeoman
attempted to shave off his beard while on board of
the boat, and was only induced to desist by the sup-
plications of one of his female followers, and the
renewed interposition of the captain. This dispo-
sition to annoy him occasions no surprise, when the
reports in circulation as to his conduct at l\Iount
Zion and elsewhere are considered, and when tbe
repulsive and insulting language in which he was in
the habit of indulging towards all who questioned or
denied his impious pretensions is also taken into tho
account. "Liars,"" Devils,"" Gentiles,"" Children
ofthe Gentiles," &c., with other epithets equally mild
and conciliatory, were as household words with him
on such occasions.
A distinguished literary gentleman has furnished
the writer with the following detailed account of an
interview with Matthews, during one of these steam-
boat excursions of which we have just been speak-
ing. It forms an interesting little narrative of itself;
and the retlo;ctions subjoined by the writer are enti-
tled to grave consideration,-although the author is
constrained to withhold his assent from the conclu-
IllS IMPOSTURES. 283
sion to which his friend has arrived, in its full extent.
The anthor fully believes there is such a thing as
fanaticism which is stone-blind, and of deep and
lamentable delusion, in which there is great sincerity,
without impiety.
" Some time in the course of the last summer,
passing up the I [udson in one of the steamboats, I
happ~m·d to be sitting at one end of a sofa, on the
upper deck, at the other l'lld of which sat a person who
excitPd no attention at the moment. On pulling
out my watch, however, he inquired of me the hour,
and this naturally drawing my notice, I remarked
something rather particular in his dress and appear-
ance. The former consisted of a green frock-coat
lined with plaid silk, pantaloons of the same cloth and
colour, a white vest, all quite new and remarkably
clean and neat. He wore a long beard almost
white ; his face was pale and rather haggard, and
his eye of a dull gray. His countenance was alto-
gether somewhat remarkable, but its expression
neither agreeable nor intelligent.
" On telling him the hour, he pulled out a splendid
gold watch and appendages, and observed that our
watches differed as to time. This Jed to further
conversation, which I was willing to encourage, from
some little curiosity occasioned by his dress, his long
beard, and his singular manner. H e soon gave me
to understand that he was the Spirit of Truth, which,
it seems, has either disappeared, or lain dormant in
the world, since the first ages of Christianity. T he
time for reviving it had now come, and in him I be-
held its visible representative. I questioned this
284 MATTHIAS Ali"D
important personage concerning the details of his
system, but found him utterly incapable of explain-
ing it consistently, rationally, or in a manner at all
within my comprehension. I occasionally assisted
him out of some of his difficulties, by explaining
his own meaning; and though the explanations were
designedly inconsistent and contradictory, he always
assented to them eagerly, as if glad to be relieved
from his labyrinth of obscurity and darkness. It is
impossible for me to give any intelligible analysis of
what was in itself unintelligible, and therefore I shall
decline the attempt.
" His style of conversation was that of a very
ignorant and Vf'ry dull man ; his voice was dry,
sharp, and disagt\;eable, and there was so little of
that enthusiasm which is the parent of genuine fa-
naticism, and the secret of its catching influence, in
his language and manner, that I set him down in
my own mind as a rank and wilful hypocrite and de-
' ceiver. Yet how it was possible such an ignorant,
stupid being could deceive any rational person into
the monstrous absurdity of believing that the Spirit
of Truth, spoke in langua~e not to be understood, I
could not have conceived, had there not been so
many examples of that wilful willingness with which
mankind in every age have submitted to become the
dnpes and instruments of blundering imposture.
" 'Yhile under pretence of explaining his system
of faith he was gradually involving himself in new
absurdities, and inconsistencies, we were rather
rudely, as I then thought, broken in upon by a little
sanguine looking man, with an ardent complexion, and
HIS niPOSTURES. 285
sturdy form, who attacked the Spirit of Truth. with
great vehemence and very little ceremony. I was
somewhat nettled at this intrusion, and abuse of my
companion, whom I desired to give me a specimen
of hi> miraculous powers by tailing away the speech
of this irreverent intruder, and thus establishing the
truth of his mission. He Jid not seem to relish this
test of his divinity, and in the mean time the little
man continued to rail at him with astonishing volu-
bility. ln the course of his argument he charged
the prophet with a tissue of deceptions and crimes,
that alarmed me at the company I had thus acci-
dentally got into, and when, at length, I heard the
name of l\Jatthias, as that of my worshipful com-
panion, I gaye up his defence, andlleft him to the
judgment of the crowd that had now gathered to-
gether.
" A sort of popular tribunal was formed around
1\Iatthias, and his accuser proceeded to a detail of
crimes and deceptions of the most revolting char-
acter, such as have since been established against
him in a court of justice. No violence was offered
or threatened by the surrounding audience, yet
did this wretched and guilty impostor, who affects
to be no less than the maker of heaven and earth,
and all the creatures which inhabit the universe,
stand silent, and trembling under the consciousness
of his crimes, in the presence of the very beings he
pretended to ha,.e created. I never saw in the
countenance and manner of any criminal more clear
unerring marks of conscious guilt than this man
exhibited on this occasion. I could not help ming-
I
'
286 MATTHIAS AND
ling pity for his present ·situation with abhorrence of
his past enormities. He was now at the close of
his career, on his way to Albany, where he was
arrested on a charge of murder, and brought down
to )Vestchester for trial.
"The extraordinary impositions, connected with
the deplorable ignorance of l\Iatthias, and the total
absence of every qualification of person, manner,
speech, and reasoning, which I had always believed
necessary to constitute a successful impostor, cre-
ated in my mind various reflections on the nature of
what is denominated fanaticism, but which I believe
is quite as often, if not oftener, sheer downright hy-
pocrisy, both in the deceiver and in those who pre-
tend to be deluded. It appeared to me utterly im-
possible that any rational beings, however ignorant
or inexperienced, could, in an age of Christianity, be
persuaded into the self-evident impossibility of a
m:m, like themselves in every moral and physical at-
tribute, being the Divinity itself, without the inter-
vention of palpable, incontestable miracles performed
by that person in open day, and in the presence of
living witnesses.
" I could not therefore avoid the conclusion, that
by far the greater portion of those who profess to
be deluded, only assume the character of believers
in these impostures, for the purpose of thus freeing
themselves from the restraint of those rules and de-
corums and obligations of society, which they can-
not otherwise contravene without calling down on
their own heads disgrace and punishment. It will,
in almost every case of the$e fanatical eruptions, qe
HIS niPOSTURES. 287
seen that the imposture begins by railing against all
the domestic duties and relations of the social state :
filial and parental ties, the marriage vow, the sanc-
tity of chastity, most especially, form the subjects of
their attacks, and the basis ol" eycry false religion is
almost uniformly laid in the ruins uf feminine purity,
matrimonial faith, and domestic obligations.
''That those who have become impatient of these
ties and duties, or who wish to free themselves from
the necessity of conforming to the restraints of the
social state, and travel ou~ into the boundless ocean
of licentious indulgence, should shPlter themselves
under the convenient mask of fanaticism, from the
imputation of criminal exce5ses, and affect to be-
come conscientiously lewd, or wicked from principle,
is surely not a subject of wonder, however it may be
of regret. Hence we almost always see the devel-
opment and exposure of thf'se impostures exhibit-
ing to the eyes of the world a scene of lewdness
and licentious intercourse equally degrading to tho
charactPr of that sex, among whom we almost al-
ways find the first disciples of every new-fangled
religious imposition, and to the character of rational
and moral beings. From all I have seen and read
of these victims, or accomplices of successful im-
postnrP, I am unalterably convinced, that what is
called fanaticism, is oftener the cool calculating off-
spring of a corrupt and sensual heart, than of a de-
luded overheated brain. Nine times in ten, I believe
it is only the veil behind which corrupt men and
women seek a shelter from the ignominy of a licen-
288 ~lA TTHIAS AND
tious life, and cloak the indulgence of indiscriminate
lewdness."
In the introduction to this interesting communica-
tion, the author dissented in part from the theory of
the writer as to the extent to which he would carry
it. But that his conclusions are just to a very con-
siderable exl<>nt, cannot be denied. Indeed, an ex-
amination of the history of heresies and impostures.
in all ages, will disclose the painful fact, that whethet
arising from enthusiasm, or phrensy, or from delib
erate imposture, a common character seems to hav~
run through and pervaded nearly all,-and the ten-
dency has, beyond doubt, most usually been to licen-
tiousness and criminal intercourse between the sexes.
This fact has not escaped the enemies of Christi-
anity, who have availed themselves of it in their at-
tacks, for the purpose of increasing the weight of
odium with which they would cover it. Mr. Hume,
however, has the candour to assign the true cause
for the effect, viz. the strength of human passions,
and the facilities of criminal indulgence, afforded by
the fi·equent and intimate associations produced by
congenial fanaticism, between the sexes. The de-
lusion of the followers of Ann Lee, however, com-
monly known as the Shakers, has differently aflected
their moral practice, since their creed requires a
mortification of the sensual portion of our nature,
for the greater perfection of the soul. Still, in most
cases, from the primitive heresy of Gnosticism,
down to the fifth monarchy sect of the puritan
age, and even to the days of Joanna Southcote in
England, and the Cochranites, the lascivious :Mor-
IllS l~IPOSTURES. 289
mons, and the sensual Perfectionists of the pres-
ent day in the United States, the tendency, it can-
not be denied, has been to permit almost every
licence of impurity.
To resume, however, the illustrations we had
proposed of the intellectual character of 1\Iatthews.
Notwithstanding his occasional appearance of sto-
lidity, there is often about him a smartness of re-
partee, and a readiness and adroitness in converting
casual incidents to his own advantage, which gives
him an undue consequence with the unthinking mul-
titude, who look upon him rather as a rare monster
than a fool. 1\Ir. Folger has said, in his narrative, ,\ '
that he is an arrant coward1; in support of which opi-
nion, it may be observed, that in the whole course
of his caree~, whenever he pad reason to apprehend
that hiS insolence would be visited with punishment, t\
he>vas very cautious to withhold it-though ex-
ceedmgly lavish of abuse at other times. Being
to1d-ny orie who would not brook his arrogance, that
if he spoke to him as he had done to others, he
would knock him down-" I will have nothing to r/'
say to you," was his ready and prudent reply. His \
shrewdness has been frequently manifested in his
retorts upon those who have questioned him in re-
gard to his manner of life, &c. " I once heard
him,'' says a friend, addressing the writer, "a few
moments on board of a steamboat in conversation
assert, that ' He kepi a long fast when he first began
to preach the truth in .fllbany ;' and when asked
why he did not live with and provide for his children
as honest men did, he instantly answered the in·
.B b
290 niATTIIIAS AND
quirer, whom he had constantly been calling a devil,
• My childl'en obey my voice, and follow me.'
The inquirer replied, ' I endeavour to control my
children the best way I can, and yet they do not
always obey me.' Matthews instantly retorted,
• The disobedient are the child1·en of the devil,' and
then laughed with real glee at the point of his own
repartee. After enjoying his witticism to the full,
he said, in extenuation of his risibility, that 'Elijah
was a jovial old soul !' ''
Again, after his arrest, on his way to Bedford
Court, he, with other passengers, walked up some
of the hills, and, in so doing, the prophet rather en-
croached upon and crowded one of them into the
gutter ; and when the latter remonstrated, the former
replied, "I always incline to the 1·ight.''
After arriving at the village, and while proceeding
from the tavern to the Court-house, followed ofcourse
by a cavalcade of boys and idlers, he gravely turned
about and exclaimed, "Why, I have a few followers
yet!"
As to the extent of the reading of Matthews, inde-
pendently of the Bible, with which he is greatly con-
versant, the writer has no means ofjudging. From·
his general manifestations of ignorance, however, it
is most probably very limited. He may have
read the lives and exploits of former heresiarchs and
impostors, and attempted to copy their unblessed
and inglorious example, in respect both to conduct
and doctrine. But such is probably not the fact,
although striking parallels might very easily be traced
between his character and pretensions and those of
IllS IniPOSTURES, 291'
other deceivers in almost every prominent instance
offanaticism and delusion. Even in Simon 1\lagus,
conspicuous among the first corrupters of Chris-
tianity, the same leading characteristics, in princi-
ples, pretensions, and practice, were displayed as in
Robert 1\latthews. After the rejection of the sor-
cerer by the Apostle Peter, for his impious ofler of
money in purchase of the gift of the Holy Spirit, he
fell into greater errors and abominations than be-
fore. Travelling to Rome, and exciting the admi-
ration of many by his false miracles and impostures,
he was honoured as a deity by Claudius, who is
said by some to have decreed a statue to him with
the inscription "Simoni Deo sanclo''-although the
fact has been disputed by able critics. He was
called by his followers," The Great Power ofGod;"
and these blasphemous expressions have been
quoted from one of his books by Jerome:-" I am
the word of God-I am the beauty of God-I am
the Comforter-I am the Almighty-! am the whole
essence of God.'' His mistress, Helen, with whom
he was guilty of all impiety, he called-" The first
intelligence, the mother of all things, and some-
times the Holy Ghost. He said that by this first
intelligence he had originally a design of creating
the angels ; but that she, knowing this will of her
father, had descended lower, and had produced the
angels and the other spiritual powers, to whom she
had given no knowledge of her father; that these
angels and powers had afterward made angels and
men ; that Helen had passed successively into the
bodies of various women, among others, into that
292 l\IATTHIAS AND
of Helen, wife of Menelaus, who occasioned the
war of Troy ; and at last into the body of this
Helen," a prostitute whom he had purchased at
Tyre. He did not acknowledge Jesus Christ, but
pretended to consider him his rival, asserting that
he was himself the Christ. He taught a disbelief in
the resurrection of the body, but only of the soul-
the body being a substance too gross for an eternal
destiny. He maintained that men need not trouble
themselves about good works, and that the distinction
of actions into good and evil was only introduced
by angels to render men subject to them. He
ascribed to them the Old Testament, which he re-
jected ; and yet offered idolatrous worship to the
angels, whom he considered spirits of evil, to pro-
pitiate them.* On the whole, the blasphemous pre·
tensions and absurdities of Simon correspond re-
markably with the ravings of Matthews.
. Very similar to his conduct and pretensions, also,
was the character of 1\Iontanus, the vain and super-
stitious enthusiast who founded the sect of the
Montanists, in the second century of the Christian
era. He commenced his career in Asia Minor,
professing to be the Paraclete, or Comforter, the
same who had descended upon the apostles, and
whose return on earth before the second coming of
Christ, for the purpose of completing the Divine
Revelation, was expected by many of the faithful ;
and his trances, and ecstatic raptures, and frantic
ravings, were probably regarded by the credulous
• Calmet, Robinson, \Vaddington.
l!IS IMPOSTURES. 293
and wondering multitude as the surest signs of Divine
Revelation. He had many followers for a time,
and his success was promoted by two prophetesses,
who confirmed his mission and shared his spirit.
They inculcated a severe morality, however, enjoin-
ing rigid fastings and celibacy.*
But one of the most remarkable of these parallels
to the case of Matthews, for the closPness of resem-
blance in many striking features, is that of the Ana.l.
baptists of l\Iunster in Germany, which excited the
wonder of Europe during the early part of the seven-
teenth century, and of which such strange accounts
are to be found in the histories of that epoch. The
similarity between the principal of this sect, known
as John of Leyden, and 1\latthews, not only in doc-
trine, but in worldly observance, and especially in
the passion for magnificence of apparel and luxu-
rious living, and in the rites and ceremonies exacted
by each, is so remarkable as almost to lead to the
conclusion, although heretofore repudiated, that the
more recent impostor had formed himself and his
creed, designedly, upon the model of his ancient
prototype. The number of deluded proselytes who
blindly followed the dictates of the Anabaptist leader
was at one time so great, and their power so for-
midable, that sevbral princes of Germany united
against them ; and it was not until after a vigorous
siege, and an obstinate resistance, that the city of •
l\Iunster, of which the fanatics had obtained com-
* Waddington's Church History.
Bb2
294 MATTIIIAS AND
plete possession, was taken, and their power broken
down.
We feel confident that the curiosity of the reader
will be gratified by a brief description of John of
Leyden and his practices. He was originally a
tailor, and, though not the founder of the sect, ob-
tained a more absolute mastery over the minds of
his deluded followers than any former false prophet.
Instigated, no doubt, by the readiness of their sub-
mission to his assumed authority in all things, he
declared that he had a commission from Heaven to
be king of Israel and of righteousness, and to reign
after the manner of King David. Accordingly, he
appointed his chancellor, marshal, chamberlain, and
other royal officers ; maintained a most luxurious
table, at which, like the kings of France, he ate in
public, and was served in royal state, his attendants
kneeling when they presented to him dish or goblet;
and from his eight wives selected one to be his
queen, whose separate establishment was on the
same scale of splendour with his own. The king
and queen, with all their officers and courtiers, were
attired in the most costly dresses-rich silks, furs,
brocades, and jewels-purchased with the plunder
of the churches and the clergy. The king's public
habit was a suit of silver tissue, lined with crimson
silk, and fastened with golden buckles. At his right
hand a page walked or rode, bearing an open Bible ;
and on the left, another with a magnificent sword.
On his head the king wore a triple crown of gold,
richly adorned with gems ; and round his neck he
wore, suspended by a golden chain, a singular orna•
HIS IMPOSTURES. 295
ment of gold, representing the terrestrial globe, with
a cross and two swords, one of gold and the other
of silver, with the inscription, "King of Righteous-
ness over the whole world." His audiences were
held upon a vast platform erected in the market-
place ; on this he appeared seated on a splendid
throne, with his counsellors standing below him, and
all who had any suit to make to him knelt three
times, and then prostrated themselves before him as
they presented their petitions.
llesides the title of king, John of Leyden also
assumed that of" The Father," and the first pledge
exacted from all who enrolled themselves among his
followers was, implicitly to do his will, and, if neces-
sary, to suffer death at his command, or in his de-
fence or service. He enjoined and enforced a
community of goods, or rather (as has since been
done by l\Iatthews) a surrender of all possessions,
land, money, arms, and merchandise to him, as the
Father and Lord of all, to be employed by him in
the universal establishment of his kingdom-and
denounced the vengeance of Heaven and eternal
damnation on all such as refused to believe in him
and do his will. He declared, as also did his fol-
~owers, that, until he came, righteousness had not
been preached upon the earth since the Saviour; and
he equally denounced the Pope and Luther the
Reformer as teachers of unrighteousness. All
chmches and convents he commanded to be de-
stroyed in the market-places of llaal ; priests and
monks he denounced as children of darkness, and
ell sovereigns he would put to death. He pro-
296 MATTHIAS AND
claimed the wickedness and nullity of all marriages,
except those solemnized by himself or his prophets,
but enjoined polygamy, himself setting the example.
Each of his principal followers had from six to eight
wives, and both men and women were compelled to
marry. Infidelity, or ill-treatment, on the part of the
husband was punished with death. He taught that
no man could understand the Scriptures but himself,
or those whom he enlightened with his spirit, and all
the prophecies in the Old Testament, relating to the
Saviour, he applied to himself, and proclaimed their
fulfilment in the establishment of his kingdom.
In our own country, the most surprising instance
of imposture and delusion, perhaps, that has occur-
red, was that of the Cochranites, whose enormities
in licentiousness made so much stir in Maine and
New-Hampshire a few years since. Cochrane was
an officer in the army, thrown out of commission
by the reduction of the military establishment of the
United States, after the conclusion of the last war
with England. Having become poor and penni-
less, he left one of the New-England cities-Port-
land, if we mistake not-and struck off into the
country, seeking his fortune, and caring not whither
he went. One day, as night drew on, he found
himself near a farm-house, weary and hungry, and
without a penny to purchase a mouthful of food, or
the use of a pillow for the night. The thought
struck him suddenly of throwing himself upon the
hospitality ofthe farmer, for the occasion, in the char-
acter of a mini~ter. Introducing himself as such to
the family, he was gladly received; and as the coun-
IllS IMPOSTURES.' 297
try was new, and destitute of clergymen, the good
people forthwith despatched messengers to the neigh-
bours, that a minister had come among them, and
invited them in to attend a meeting. The impos-
tor had not anticipated so speedy a trial of his cleri-
1
cal character; but having assumed it, there was no
escape-he must act the part for the time being in the
best way he could. Being neither ignorant nor des-
1
titute of talents, he succeeded in acquitting himself
much better than he had anticipated, and gave so
l
much satisfaction to his audience-not very dis-
criminating, as may well be supposed-as to induce
Ihim to persevere in the imposture he had commenced.
As he acquired skill and confidence by prac-
tice in his new vocation, his popularity increased,
and he soon found it a profitable occupation. He
was followed hy multitudes ; and it was not long
before he announced himself as some great one,
and founded a new sect of religionists. His com-
mand over the audiences which he addressed is
said to have been wonderful, and his influence over
his followers unbounded. !!__sll.e.m.ll!i_a.s_thQugh he ) ~ ·;
P!>.§.~essed some potent sp.ell, l,>y m_~U.!ll!... of.JY..i}!&..lUl.e J
was enabled to hold the victims of his impostures
m a
-state of enchantment. A clerical friend (a pro- -
r-1
-rcssor in an eastern college) has informed the writer, ~
that having heard of the wonderful sway which Coch-
rane held over his disciples, and indeed of the im-
pressions he made upon casual hearers, he determined
one evening to go and witness his performances
himself. While present, although a very cool and
grave personage, he assures us that he felt some
298 1\IATTHIAS AND
strange, undefinable, mysterious influence creeping
over him to such a degree, that he was obliged actu-
ally to tear himself away in apprehension of the
consequences. This gentleman, however, is a be-
liever in animal magnetism, and is inclined to attrib-
ute the power of Cochrane to that cause. It was
said that if the impostor did but touch the hand or
neck of a female, his power over her person and
reason was complete. The consequence, therefore,
was the most open and loathsome sensuality. So
atrocious was his conduct, that he seduced great
numbers of females, married and unmarried, under ·
the pretext of raising up a holy race of men. / The
peace of many families was broken up,'1and the vil-
lain kept an establishment like a seraglio. His ca-
reer, however, was happily short. But enough of
these disgusting and melancholy commentaries upon
the weakness of human nature, and we return to the
principal subject of our history.
It may, probably, be expected of the writer, that
he should make an avowal of his opinion as to the
soundness or unsoundness of the mind of Matthews,
although, from the illustrations that have been given
of his character, habits, conduct, and the strange
jumble of things inexplicable, taught as his doctrines,
every reader might be supposed capable of forming
an opinion for himself. As it respects l.Hr. Pierson,
there cannot well be two opinions. He was seized
with monomania as early as 1828, and the malady in-
creased upon him until the death of his wife, which
event was a severe shock to hiS-reason. His asso-
ciation ·with Matthews completed the ruin of his
HIS I.MPOSTURES. 299
ind, although upon all business matters, as far as
hey could be disconnected from the supposed direct
nfluences and instructions of the Holy Spirit, his
ntellcctual powers and faculties were as active and
cute as ever. His legal adviser informs the writer,
hat within a very few days of his death, he came to
he city to attend to a case before an examiner in
hancery, and, during its progress, was as shrewd
nd intelligent, so far as regarded the matter in
and, as in his best days. llut we learn from the
blest physiologists-and, indeed, the fact is within
he personal knowledge of all who have had oppor-
nities of studying the operations of the " mind
diseased"-that " among the most singular phe-
nomena connected with insanity, we must reckon
those cases in which the hallucination is confined to
a single point, while on every other subject the pa-
tient speaks and acts like a rational man ; and he
often shows the most astonishing power of avoiding
the subject of his disordered impression, when cir-
cumstances make it desirable for him to do so."*'
The books abound with cases in close coincidence
with that of l\Ir. Pierson, where persons, otherwise
in a healthy state of mind, from peculiar circum-
stances became impressed with a belief in visions
and revelations, and of holding intercourse with
spiritual beings. "The particular character of these,
perhaps, arises out of some previous processes of
the mind, or strong propensity of character ; and
the notion of a supernatural revelation may proceed
. ,,~, -~
• Abercrombie on the Intellectual Powers.~~ _' ',J.
II. \~~~- '
• ' if f':, :1
"', \:;y ·-~f
'f. ~ '<-:'
(f)tii~Till .
300 b!ATTHIAS Al'ID
from a certain feeling of the new and peculiar man•
ner in which the impression is fixed upon the
mind."*' Such, beyond all question, was the case
of l\Ir. Pierson.
The case of Matthews has been rendered more
difficult or-solution by the decision of the court and
jury at Westchester. It is indeed possible that that
decision was correct ; but the writer is free to de-
clare, that, after a careful investigation of his char-
acter, and the history of his proceedings, he has ar•
rived at a different conclusion in part. His shrewd-
ness and cunning, and the point and felicity of his
occasional repartees, have been supposed to make
in favour of the soundness of his faculties. But
the cunning and adroitness of the partially insane are
proverbial. Examples in point have often been ob-
served by the writer, in his occasional visits to the
insane hospital at Bloomingdale-embracing impos-
ture, and brilliant sallies of wit, biting satire, and
pungent repartee. It is true that :Matthews has al-
ways been discharged when arraigned upon the
charge of insanity. But such instances are not of
very rare occurrence. • Lord Erskine gives a very
remarkable history of a man who indicted Dr.
Munro for confining him without a cause in a mad-
house. He underwent the most rigid examination
by the counsel for the defendant without discovering
any appearance of insanity, until a gentleman came
(
into court who desired a question to be put to him,
respecting a princess with whom hehad corresponded
* Abercrombie.
l!IS !~!POSTURES. 301
in cherry juice. He immediately talked about
the princess in the most insane manner, and the
cause was at an end. llut this having taken place
in ·westminster, he commenced another action in
the city of London, and on this occasion no effort
could induce him to expose his insanity ; so that the
cause was dismissed only by bringing against him
the evidence taken at \Yestminster. On another
occasion Lord Erskine examined a gentleman who
had indicted his brother for confining him as a ma-
niac, and the examination had gone on for a great
part of the day without discovering any trace of in-
sanity: Dr. Sims then came into court and informed
the .counsel that the gentleman considered himself
as the Saviour of the world. A single observation
addressed to him in this character showed his in-
sanity, and put an end to the cause. l\Iany similar
cases might be cited.* There is also a curious case
on record, where an insane person, on his way in
charge of a professional gentleman to an insane
asylum, managed to counterfeit the sane gentleman,
and caused him to be taken into the hospital and se-
cured instead of himself. And there are various
reasons which compel us to believe the fact in re-
gard to l\Iatthews to be,-that he is labouring under
monomania, partly hereditary and partly superin-
duced by religious fanaticism and phrensy. This
theory is supported by the circumstances and the
manner in which the disease came upon him. His
system, also, if that may be called system which has
• Abercrombie.
Cc
\
302 ~IATTHIAS AND
no such quality appertaining to it, betrays an un·
sound intellect. It is incredible that any man, feign·
ing himself mad, or in his sober senses, in devising a
scheme of imposture could form such a system of
utterly preposterous and unintelligible absurdities.
It is true that he always had reason enough at his
command to keep quiet when in danger, and he de-
sisted from his phrensied vociferations in court im-
mediately on perceiving that they would not aid his
cause. But the insane are proverbially cowards;
and the perfect docility which marked his demeanour
in an instant, and when raving with passion, in obe-
\ dience to the landlord of the hotel at the Battery, is
1
\ a strong evidence of derangement. ~ he been
' actuated by a prudent foreqasj,. moreover, with the
·;· ilnb
-otinded influence he possessed over Pierson and
"\' Folger, he might have enriched himself from their
estates before their property disappeared. This he
did not do, but merely contented himself \\ith ex-
travagant dress and living, without apparently taking
thought for the morrow. But in addition to these,
and other evidences of hallucination that might be
adduced, insanity is with him a familyailliction. One
of his brothers, as has already been stated, died insane;
another, the writer has been assured, is now insane ;
and every member of the family is said at one time
or another to have given indications of a disordered
mind. This family infirmity is a very strong proof
of a disordered intellect in the case of the prophet.
The propensities of his intellectual character, which
had been kept under restraint by reason, or by ex-
ternal circumstances, or old habits which had been
HIS DIPOSTURES. 303
subdued or restrained, developed themselves without
control under the temperance and religious excite-
ments in which he took part, and led his mind into
the fancies arising out of them. Visions of a some-
what distempered imagination, in which he might
formerly ha1•e indulged, of that kind usually called
day-dreams, or castle building, then perhaps recur-
ring to his mind, he may in the first moments of )\
his delirium have believed in their real existence.*" (
~he has _not be~!:_l:!_tho~~ "_
met?od in his.~a~~ ..r ;
ness;'' and tt seems clear to the-wnter, that, wtth a "
tiilge of insanity, he is also much of a knave, o(l
and probably a dupe likewise in part to his own
imposture.
* Abercromhic.
304 l\IATTIIIAS A:l!D
CHAPTER XI.
Concluding ObserYations-Religion not responsible for Mono-
mania and Delusion-Hallucinations arising from other Causes
- Cataler>sy-The Power of Sympathy-Animal Magnetism
- Vari0us other Phenomena. of the Mind-Catholic Delusions
-Epidemic bodily Affections-Mewing and biting Nuns-
Barclay's Apology for the Quakers-Religious Excesses in
Kentucky-Fanaticism of the Present Day-Evil Conse-
quences upon the Church-Connected with the Impostures of
Matthias-Fanaticism and Delusion still existing in New-
York-Ill F.fleets of the Ultraism of the Day-Project for dis-
pensing with Wine at the Eucharist-Conclusion.
IT was the principal and almost the sole design
of the present work to make it a simple record of
facts-leaving theories and speculations to the phi-
losophers. And yet, in the view of the writer, it
would be a course of questionable propriety to send
forth a volume of this description without addressing
a few words of caution, especiaiJy to the youthful
reader, that he is by no means to take it for granted
that the gross impieties and strong delusions we
have been contemplating are to be charged to the
account of the Christian religion. The disorder of
tke mind usually termed monomania by the physi-
cians-being that form of mental hallucination in
which the mind is absorbed by a single idea-arises
fi·om various moral causes, and frequently has no
connection whatever with religious subjects; De-
HIS IMPOSTURES. 305
lusions also, deep, dark, and often fatal, are as likely
to settle upon the mind, and cloud the understanding,
in regard to other matters, as upon those of reli-
gion. The causes, the direction, and the results,
are as various as the structure of the mind, and the
pursuits of men.
The delusion in the early history ofNew-England,
on the subject of witchcraft, which prevailed so ex-
tensively, and which, in the blindness of its phrensy,
doomed so many innocent- victims to the scaffold
and the fagot, was partly religious and partly not,
and withal thoroughly fanatical. It has been at-
tributed, and that not without a show of reason, to
the superstitious era in which those excesses oc-
cmred. But if so, what are we to say of that strong
mental delusion-and none was ever more unac-
countable or more melancholy-which, in the present
enlightened age, and in a sPction of country inhabited
by the most intelligent people in this union, com-
passed the abduction and murder of a few citizens,
in revenge for an imaginary offence-not against
the peace and dignity of the state, nor to the per-
sonal detriment of a single individual, but merely
for the anticipated infringement of a regulation of a
private social society! .l\Iost assuredly, the mental
malady which instigated and perpetrated such a
crime, and which was shared to a greater or less
extent by hundreds of respectable and intelligent
men, had no connection with the religious principle.
Nor was the fanatical delusion of antimasonry, which
succeeded it, and swept like a hurricane of fire over
Cc2
306 l\IA TTIIIAS AND
large portions of our country, allied to that prin-
ciple.
The mania which prevailed among the capitalists
of England and France, in the memorable instance
of the South Sea Bubble, affords another example of
delusion equally strong, and yet upon a subject still
farther removed from things appertaining to religion.
How many thousands of men, heedless and blind,
on that occasion rushed into the gulf of bankruptcy,
as if bereft of reason, impelled by the desire of at
once realizing fortunes by means they knew not
what, and from sources they knew not whence !
Nor was this mental obliquity peculiar to that iso-
lated instance of stupendous stock-jobbing. It was
more strongly developed on that occasion, because
of the magnitude of the scheme, and the number
and consequence of its dupes. But the like spirit
is yet abroad, and ever will be, whenever new
sources and objects of speculation are presented to
an enterprising community.
' Still more remarkable, however, and yet more ab-
sura~ than any or all these, was the delusion which
spread over Europe some half a century ago; and
which has at various times been revived, and is by
no means extinct at the present time, on the subject of
animal magnetism. There is no greater absurdity
extant in popular opinion, than the fancied analogy
between the action of the mineral magnet and that
of the animal energy, maintained by the disciples
of Anthony l\Iesmer, the German impostor, who
turned the heads of half the savans of Europe upon
this subiect. No more audacious or successful
IllS ll\IPOSTURES. 307
mountebank, probably, ever lived than l\Iesmer.
But although compelled to quit Yienna in conse-
quence of being detected in a fraudulent miracle he
had attempted, yet his career in Paris aflerward was
one of unexampled success. The magnet soon
grew into comparative disuse, and the impostor de-
clared that the pretended cures wrought by him were
eflected by a mysterious power in his own person,
and that this power was allied not only to the mag-
netic power, but to the attraction dispersed through-
out the universe. 1\Ionstrous as were his pre-
tensions, he obtained credence, and for a while
all Europe, including princes, and learned doctors,
scholars, and philosophers, were among his believers.
There were no more splendid salons in Paris than
his, and none more universally and fashionably
thronged.
It will not be pretended, we apprehend, that a de-
lusion like this, had any connr.ction with the reli-
gious principle-and analogous examples might be
multiplied to an almost indefinite extent, were more
necessary to establish the position we are maintain-
ing. But it is believed the few cases to which brief
reference has been made, will be amply sufficient
for the present purpose.
P erhaps, however, it may yet be objected by the
skeptic, that the examples cited are exceptiOns,
standing alone, at the distance of long intervals of
years, and that, after all, monomania has been both
more strikingly and more frequently exhibited in
* Vide Appendix, H.
308 MATTHIAS ASD
connection with religion, than upon any other sub-
ject. The answer is nevertheless at hand. Mono-
mania, and indeed every form of insanity, depends
for its existence, in any individual case, upon
physical causes. Certain persons possess fi·om
birth, hereditarily, or otherwise, a physical organiza-
tion which predisposes them to paroxysms of insanity
on the occurrence of any considerable excitement,
whether mental or physical. In such instances, it
is no more an argument against religion, that it does
not protect its votaries from such calamities, or
counteract such predispositions, than to object that
it does not cure the gout, or prevent the consump-
tion. The disorder is, moreover, certain to fasten
upon the strongest principle of our nature ; and
it is the religious principle, beyond all doubt, which
is at once the strongest and the most universally
fell, and to "hich the appeal is the most easily
made.
The doctrine of supernatural and Divine influ-
ence acting upon the body as well as the mind, is
as old as the history of man. The religious history
of the Greeks and RomanH, of Britain under the
priesthood of the Druids, of India, and, in general,
of all savage trihes, is full of its fruits. The con-
vulsions of the Pythian priestess,-the contortions
of the Sihyl-the Yast mriety of convulsive and
cataleptic phenomena among the dc,·otees in India,
and also among the spinning derviE-hes of the l\Io-
hammedans, may be adduced as illustrations. But
as the Christian religion makPs the deepest and
strongest impressions upon the mind and feelings,
IIIS DIPOSTURES. 309
it, of course, furnishes one of the' most effectual
of those conditions under which the principles of
sympathy, imitation, nervous sensibility, and imagi-
nation are excited to the production of such phe-
nomena.
Nothing, then, can be more natural than that the
history of Christianity should abundantly illustrate
this order of delusions, of which the principal facts
comprised in the foregoing pages form but another
chapter-more strongly marked, however, in some
of its developments, than the historian is often under
the necessity of placing upon record. Nor are
these delusions in any respect peculiar, as some are
disposed to maintain, to Protestants, or those who,
for the convenience of designation, are known as
Evangelical Christians. "The influence of the
Roman Catholic religion, especially in the middle
ages, connected, as it then was, with the pomp of pro-
cessions, with public exercises of penance, and with
innumerable practices which strongly excited the
imaginations of its votaries, certainly brought the
mind to a very favourable state for the reception of
a nervous disorder. Accordingly, so long as the
doctrines of Christianity were blended with so much
mysticism, unhallowed disorders prevailed to an
important extent ; and even in our days we find
them propagated with the (g~eatest facility where
the existence of superstition proiluces the greatest
effect in more limited districts, as it once did
among whole nations."*
* Hecker's Epidemics of the 1\fiddle Ages.
310 ~IATTHIAS AND
The history of the enthusiasts of Cevennes, called
Camisards,-of the Convulsionaries of St. Medad,
and the work just referred to, are full of facts upon
this subject-proving that monomania, fanaticism,
and delusion are not only sympathetic, but epidemic
diseases. "The imaginations of women," says Dr.
Babbington, "are always more excitable than those
of men, and they are therefore susceptible of every ·
folly when they lead a life of strict seclusion, and
their thoughts are constantly turned inward upon
themselves. Hence in orphan asylums, hospitals,
and convents. the nervous disorder of one female
so easily and quickly becomes the disorder of all.
I have read in a good medical work that a nun, in
a very large convent in France, began to mew like
a cat ; shortly afterward other nuns also mewed to-
gether every day at a certain time, for several hours
together. The whole surrounding Christian neigh-
bourhood heard, with equal chagrin and astonish-
ment, this daily cat-concert, which did not cease
until all the nuns were informed that a company of
soldiers were placed by the police before the entrance
of the convent, and that they were provided with
rods, and would continue whipping them until they
promised not to mew any more. But of all the
epidemics of females which I myself have seen in
Germany, or of which the history is known to me,
the most remarkable is the celebrated Convent-epi-
demic of the fifteenth century, which Cardan de-
scribes, and which peculiarly proves what I would
here enforce. A certain nun in Germany fell to
biting all her companions. In the course of a short
HIS IMPOSTUR!:S. 311
time all the nuns of this convent began biting each
other. The news of this infatuation among the
nuns soon spread, and it passed from convent to
convent throughout a great part of Germany, princi-
pally Saxony and Brandenburg. It afterward visited
the nunneries of Holland, and at last the nuns had
the biting mania even as far as Rome."
The propagation ofepileptic and other convulsions
is well established. "
When an individual in a crowd is
seized with these affections, the disorder very com-
monly spreads itself through the crowd. From the
occurrence and rapid propagation of epilepsy among
the crowded political assemblies (comilia) of the
Romans, this affection was called the mo1'bus comi-
tialis ; and in order to prevent its spread on such
occasions, a law was passed to break up the comilia,
and disperse the crowd on the first occurrence of a
case.
A striking illustration of the effects of the princi-
ple of involuntary imitation and imagination upon
persons brought together in a close assembly, even
where nothing is spoken, occurs in Barclay's Apol-
ogy for the Quakers. After speaking of the Di-
vine influence as coming down upon them, and pro-
ducini( " a trembling, and a motion of the body upon
most if not all," he proceeds to say: "and from
this the name Quakers or Tremblers 1ms first re-
proachfully cast upon us, which, if it be not of our
own choosing, yet we are not ashamed of it, but
have rather reason to rejoice in this respect, even
that we are sensible of this power that hath some-
times laid hold on our adversaries, and made them
312 ~IATTHIAS AND
yield to us, and join with us, and confess to the truth,
befm·e they had any doct,·incs, so that sometimes
many at one meeting have been thus convinced: and
]JOtvel' would sometimes also 1·each to, and wonde,·-
fully w01·k, even in little children, to the astonish-
ment and admi1·ation of many!"
About thirty or thirty-five years ago, there was an
extensive revival of religion (so called) in Kentucky,
characterized by the greatest fanaticism, accompa-
nied by a great variety of bodily affections, and run•
ning into many painful excesses. These fanatics
were reducible to various classes, some ofwhich were
affected by ''the falling exercise;" and others by
what was called the "jerking exercise ;'' others were
moved by the Spirit to propose the "1'!!nning exer·
cise ;" and others again the "climbing exercise"-
all which exercises are sufficiently indicated by their
names. It was a frequent occurrence for a number
of the people to gather round a tree, some praying,
and others imitating the barking of dogs, which oper-
ation was called, in familiar parlance among them,
"treeing the devil.'' It was stated also concerning
the same people, that in their religious assemblies,
or other places of worship, religious professors of
zeal and standing would get out into the broad aisle,
and go down upon their knees together, playing mar-
bles, and other childish games, under the notion of'
obeying that saving of the Saviour-" except ye be
converted, and oecome as little children, ye cannot
enter into the kingdom of heaven;'' others would
ride up and down the aisles of the church on sticks,
&c. It was further said that the religious leaders,
IllS D!POSTURES. 313
or at least one of them, by the name of l'ti1
Namara,
would affect to personate Satan : that on a certain
occasion during Camp-meeting he was creeping
about among the people's feet, exclaiming, " I am
the old serpent that tempted Eve :" when approach-
ing in this manner to a Scotchman who was on the
ground as a spectator, the man lifted up his heel, and
stamping on the face of the minister, replied, " The
seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's head."
This man, M1
Namara, was regarded among them
with superstitious reverence, insomuch that it was
common for them to sing, in worship, a hymn, hav-
ing for its chorus-" Glory to God and l\I1
Nama-
ra." A pious friend of the writer, who was at the
time a student of theology under the late Dr. 1\Ia-
son, states that these facts were reported by his fel-
low students from Kentucky, one of whom actually
heard the blasphemous chorus sung ! And yet all
these affections, these "fantastic tricks,"which might
well "make angels weep," were fully beheved to
be the work of the Holy Spirit-the fruits and evi-
dences ofconvcrsion,-and it would have been bold
impiety and blasphemy to doubt it.
This brief sketch of the Kentucky enthusiasm
brings us back to the point we had in view in the
commencement of the volume, and of which, it is
hoped, we have never lost sight, viz. the great
danger of running into extremes, and making our-
selves wise above what is written. Wbat sober
Christian does not shrink with pain, sorrow, and dis-
gust from proceedings like those just related, car-
ried on under the name of religion, and with an im-
Dd I
314 ~IATTIIIAS Al'iD
pious confidence ,.eferred to the diroct agency of
the Holy Spirit! And yet they are scarcely more
extravagant or revolting than have been witnessed
in our own day, and in some of the most enlightened
regions of our own state. Look at the present con-
dition of the churches of western New-York, which
have become, in truth, "a people scattered and
peeled.'' The time has not come to write the ec-
clesiastical history of the last t!;ln years. And yet
somebody should chronicle the facts now, lest in
after times the truth, however correctly it may be
preserved by tradition, should not be believed.
Twenty years hence, who, probably, would believe
that early in the second quarter of the present cen-
tury, Christian parents in the state of New-York
could have been induced, by the teachings of fanati-
cism, to whip their children with rods into re-
pentance 1 Who, twenty years hence, would be
willing to believe that for the purpose of helping on
a revival of religion, its managers would station a
trumpeter privately in the belfry of a church, to
startle the congregation at a particular point of a
sermon on the final judgment, by winding a blast
on his instrument as the minister spoke of the sound-
ing of the last trumpet !*
The writer entertains no doubt, that many true
.. This transaction is said to have taken place in Massachu
setts Or Vermont, some four or five years since. The writer saw a
printed account ofit, but it is not within his reach: it is to be hoped
thatthe pubhcation wasnot true. Butothermeans, equally excep
tionable, are notorious in the career of some of the roving evan-
gelists who have r1istracted and rent asunder so many churches.
The reports, printed and verbal, that have been communicatecl
to the writer respecting the proceedings of the celebrated Mr.
Burchar<l, almost equal in phrensy, if not impiety, the vagaries
HIS In!POSTURES. 315
conversions have occurred under the system to
which he is referring. llut as with the ground over
which the lightning has gone, scorching and wither-
ing every green thing, years may pass away before
the arid wastes of the church will be grown over
by the living herbage.
These facts and reflections ha\·e been introduced
in this place, because it is believed that the melan-
choly and humiliating chapter in the philosophy of
the human mind, comprised in the present volume,
forms a portion of the same history. The delusion
originated in the same spirit of fanaticism which
has transformed so many Christian communities in
the northern and western parts of New.York, and
states contiguous, into places of moral waste and
spiritual desolation. The error was cherished and
prolonged in the same spirit; and, proceeding step
by step from one degree of extravagance to another,
at last, under the teachings of the pretended
prophet, who had also begun his career in the
same school, the measure of iniquity became full
and running over. Nor have we seen the end even
yet. In the Perfectionism, which began at Albany
of Matthew• himself. A gP.ntleman ofgreat respectabilitystates,
that when he was in the western part of New.York, a year or
two since, he was told by a peroon whom he perfectly believed,
of the following instance of a procedure of ll!r. Uurchart! :-
After havin~ by persuasion and the use of the most exciting
language, and even taking hold of indi,·iduals, got a company of
persons of both sexes upon their knees to pray-ranged in two
parallel lines, facing each other-he began to pass up and down
between them, crying out, with great violence, repeatedly, "Ago·
nize, I tell you! Whv rlon't you agonize !-agonize !" &c. &c.
In this way he continued for a consulerable time, exciting them
to pray; exclaiming, "Pray away !-Pray away !-1 hare not
had a con\'crsion thrsc twrnty n1inutes! !"
3J6 lilATTHIAS AND
about the time that Matthews commenced his ca-
reer, and which has recently appeared in New-
Haven with some force, as also in several other
places in New-England, we may discern another
of the same parent. These Perfectionists believe
that they have the inward Christ-can do no wrong
-that to the pure all things are pure-that Christ
is responsible for all they do-and other such blas-
phemous absurdities. In their practices, too, as the
writer is informed, from proofs which cannot in the
nature of things be very long concealed, there is
reason to apprehend that the licentious abomina-
tions of the Fifth Monarchy-men of England, the
followers of Joanna Southcote, and the Mormons,
will soon find another parallel. Indeed, a section
of the Mormons and Perfectionists have been al-
ready united, as we have been assured from an in-
telligent source, while these sheets are passing
through the press.
Nor yet is this all. In one of its ramifications,
the same delirious enthusiasm which has been ex-
posed in the preceding pages, is still at work and
flourishing in the city of New-York, under the
conduct of an individual who was associated with
" The Holy Club," described in our second chap-
ter, and afterward, for a time, with Mr. Pierson,
and the community at Bowery Hill. The eccen- '·
tric individual referred to, however, who at pres-
ent is the chief personage in this delusion, is
generally esteemed as a well-meaning and sincere
man ; nor has any moral impropriety ever been
alleged against him. He officiates, like Mr. Pier-
son, in " his own hired }IOU~>"··" in an upper room
lll3 IMPOSTURES. 317
fitted for the purpose, and his congregation is
chiefly composed of females, a large number of
whom are in his employ. Every Sunday, and on one
or two evenings of the week, he assembles these
females, and such visiters of both sexes as choose
to attend, for religious meetings. And although
he is regarded by his followers as almost superhu-
man, and professes immediate inspiration, yet all
are allowed to speak in their meetings. Many of
their speeches consist of revelations, dreams, and
visions; and after each has made his or her rela-
tion, their prophet interprets them by Divine and
infallible authority. He has varied his pretensions
at different periods, professing sometimes greater
gifts than at others. Some years since he de-
c.Iared himself empowered by faith to discern spir-
its, cast out devils, heal diseases, and perform other
miracles; and some of his followers have professed
to be similarly endowed. He was an intimate
friend of 1\Ir. Pierson, and was srnt for to anoint
l\lrs. P. before her death; hut did not arrive in
time. He was present, however, at the attempted
resurrection, and seemed full of faith in the suc-
1cess of that promised miracle. Indeed, he has
often practised the anointing of the sick, and wme
of his followers profess to be living witnesses of
his healing powers by the laying on of his hands.
H e believes that all cases of insanity are examples
of diabolical possession, and relates instances of
his having cast out devils. In one of these cases
of diabolical di8possession, it is rl'lated, that" when
the cle~·il went out of the man, he barked like a
dog." When any of his miracles fail, he alleges
D d2 .
318 niATTHIAS AND
the want of faith in the patient, or on the part of
some one present, as the only cause. Some of his
followers have spent much time in searching for
Captain Kidd's money, both men and women hav-
ing been digging in the earth on Staten-Island, and
elsewhere, during whole nights. Trances are not
unfrequent among them, in which they obtain mar·
vellous revelations. A short time since, a black
woman fell into a trance, which is said to have lasted
three days and nights, and being one of the disci-
ples, she related her manifestations at the meeting,
saying that she had been in heaven and iu hell, in
which latter place she saw several of the ministers
who now reside in this city, whose names she
repeated. Subsequently she visited a number of
them at their houses, as the bearer of a message
from the other world, which she was commanded
to deliver in person. All this was fully credited by
the deluded victims of the individual and his asso-
ciates, to whom allusion has just been made.
It is but just to record, that he refused to ac-
knowledge the impostor 1\Iatthews, though urged
thereto by his friend Mr. Pierson, because he dis-
cerned his spirit. So, also, when Mr. P. himself
assumed to be the prophet Elijah, this gentleman
would not receive his testimony, and their inter-
course ceased soon afterward. And yet, strange
as it may seem, the exposure of Matthews, so far
from annihilating this delusion, seems only to in-
crease it; and it never was more numerously pat-
ronised than at this very time. It is to be feared
that some who have narrowly escaped the former,
HIS IMPOSTURES. 319
and have nearly suffered thereby the loss of all
things, are even now entangled in the latter snare.
Whereunto this matter may grow cannot be fore-
told : little hazard is incurred, however, by the pre-
diction, that no good will come of it, while incalcu-
lable evil may.
And now, what shall be said in conclusion of the
whole matter! In the history of Matthews, and
those who both preceded and followed him, the
foregoing pages have been written with a view of
warning the Christian public, by the presentation
of simple facts, against cherishing a spirit of fanat-
icism. The author has diligently sought for the
truth ; and he believes he has succeeded in collect-
ing a chain of facts, which, though many of them
were of a private nature, are all of an extraor-
dinary and painful character, and are not the less
important to be known, that others, looking at their
origin, and tracing their progress, may be deterred
from the adoption of a course in matters of religion
that, by possibility, may lead to the same danger-
ous extremes, and ultimately into the same dark
and painful, if not fatal delusions disclosed in this
book.
It has been seen in the course of this nar-
rative how perilous it is for the Christian professor
to indulge in an uncharitable and censorious spirit
-to set up standards of faith and practice of his
own, irrespective of the simple requisitions of the
word of God, taken in their most obvious sense,
and in their own native simplicity and beauty. It
has been well remarked hy Robert Philip, that
" the men who would say to others, 'stand aside,
320 !IIATTIIIAS AND
for I am holier than thou,' are Pharisees, who have
little or no dependence on grace. In like manner,
all who plume themselves on being special favour·
ites of Heaven, and despise others as non-elect,
pay, of all men, the least respect to the grace they
pretend to have received. They either turn it into
licentiousness, or employ it as an excuse for idle-
ness." In the melancholy chain of circumstances
and events we have been contemplating, illustra-
tions the most ample have been found of the just-
ness of these remarks. The difficulties commenced
-the delusion2gross, palpable, and lamentable as
it became in its progress, and fatal to the life of
one truly excellent man in the end--had its origin
in the fanaticism of a single individual-and that
person remained the guiding spirit through the
whole progress of the mental malady, in all its
stages, excepting only in regard to the pretended
prophet, of whom she disapproved. \Ve recollect
well the remark ofa lady of delightful piety-one of
the sweetest and most intelligent Christians we ever
knew, when the individual referred to commenced
her career of lofty pretensions to holiness on her
own part, and of fault-finding and cruel denuncia-
tions, in regard to the spirit she thus evinced, and
the course into which it would lead. The lady to
whom we allude is the wife of a clergyman-and
no Christian couple on earth, probably, have been
more united and happy in their lives, or have dif-
fused a more beneficial and salutary influence in
society. She remarked, in substance, that she had
seen many instances of this severe and fault-finding
HIS IlllPOSTURES. 32l
spirit, but never beheld any good resulting from its
exercise. On the contrary, those who thus in-
dulged in all uncharitableness, were very certain
themselves to run into the extreme, either of an
eventual disregard of all religion and the indulgence
of excessive gayety on the one hand, or by setting
up as the head and leader of a sect on the other.
The prediction was speedily fulfilled in the pro-
ceedings with which the reader is already ac-
quainted, especially at Bowery Hill.
Undoubtedly the great error of the times in
which we live, and especially in our own country,
is a tendency to ultraism, not only in regard to the
eoncerns of religion, but likewise in respect to
most if not all the great principles and objects
which are now engrossing the attention of man.
'Ve are running into extremes upon almost every
thing we undertake. In politics, we are in danger
of carrying the principles of liberty to licentious-
ness. In matters of philanthropy, instead of that
quiet and modest principle of action which would
shrink from allowing the right-hand to know what
the left is doing, we have too much of parade arul
ostentation-too much blowing of trumpets. In
morals, whenever a hobby is started, we are eager
in outvying each other, even beyond the require-
ments of the moral law itself; and in the impetu-
osity of this excess of zeal, we grieve to say, the
sacred cause of temperance bids fair to be arrested
in its progress, if not ruined, by the indiscretions
and the fanaticism of its friends. It was in view
of this spirit of ultraism that one of the distin-
322 MATTHIAS AND
guished orators at the recent rei igious anniversaries,
shrewdly remarked, that often, when a good cause
has been begun, if the Devil finds there is no other
way to ruin it, he will turn charioteer himself.
No stronger illustration of the truth of this remark
could well be added, than is to be found in the re·
cent measures and proceedings of some good men,
who are labouring with more zeal than prudence,
or knowledge of human nature, in the temperance
cause. Not only have we seen the cutting down
of orchards, and the pouring of wine into the streets,
but grave and reverend divines are at length, in
the exuberance of their zeal, proposing to abolish
wine in the solemn institution of the Eucharist!*
In the solemn affairs of religion, moreover, in-
stead of looking into our own hearts, and repenting
of our own sins, we are striving to look into the
* A series of articles are now in the course of publication in
the Connecticut Observer, the writer of which is understood to
be the Rev. Dr. Chapin, of Wethersfield, proposing to dispense
with wine at the Communion. Among other things, he more
than intimates his opinion that much that is taken for holy er•·
joyment at those seasons, is animnl excitemmt from the stimulus,
or intoxicating effect of the wine; and that church-members
'Hake a carnal pleasure in the liquor. Professor Hitchcock, of
Amherst, is also understood to be writing to the same effect. A
highly-valued clerical friend. now in New-York, has given tho
writer the following extract from a dialogue between himself
and one of these ultra-preachers of temperance:-
"Well, Mr. ******, supposing Jesus Christ came on the
earth again, and should happen into a prayer-meeting of your
disciples, anrl as he entered the whisper should go round that
he had just come from making wine for a festive occasion, where
the party had alrea•ly drunk pretty well before-would you ask
him to make ~ prayer?"
"No!" (striking his fist upon the table)," that I would not,"
was the reply !
JUS l~ll'OSTUnl:S. 323
hearts of others, and take care of them, in our own
way, and to the danger, we fear, of our own souls.
T he appointed means of grace are contemned; we
wish to do the work of the Spirit, as it were, by
machinery ; and instead of depending upon the
Spirit of God, and seeking to catch the genial
currents of that wind which bloweth where it listeth, 1
and of which we only hear the sound, but canno·
tell whence it cometh, or whither it goeth, we are
striving to raise hurricanes ourselves. But unless
the writer is greatly deceived in his estimate of the
facts detailed in the present 1·olume, they ought to
stand as a solemn warning against the indulgence
of this ultra, self-righteous, and fanatical spirit-
this seeking out of human inventions in matters of
such high concernment as those of the salvation of
men. How much wiser, safer, and better, than the
running after every new thing, and the following
of ~o many blind guides, would it be for Christian
professors to obey the injunction of God himself:
" Thus saith lite Lord, Stand ye in the ways, and
see, Al\D ASK FOH THE OLD l'ATIIS, tvhe1•e is the GOOD
WAY, and WALK THEHEIN, and ye shall jind rest for
your souls."
The contents of this little volume also teach
another lesson which should not be suffered to pass· .'
unheeded. It is not the low, the ignorant, and the. .{,t
vulgar who have been the subjects of the dciuJ ~
sions we have been unfolding; but, at every stage ' f-/
of them, and in all their variety of aspects, those 1 ,o
subjects have been found among highly respectable I
and intelligent citizens-ladies, educated, aceom· '¢
324 MATTniAS.
plished, virtuous-and gentlemen or character-
acute in business-men of wealth, of information,
and of great public and private worth. How im-
portant, then, in view of our dependence, and the
frailty of our nature, the caution, " Let him that
thinkcth he standeth, take heed lest he fall." And
again, in the language of God to Jeremiah, "Let
not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let
the mighty man glory in his might; let not the rich
man glory in his riches, but let him that glorieth,
glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth
l\fE." The rule of action in all doubtful matters,
both in religion and morals, is very clear and sim-
ple : " Fear God, and keep his commandments ;
for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall
bring every work into judgment, with every secret
thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil."
In conclusion, it may be remarked that ERROR
can only be overcome by TRUTH, and that they
who have the " TRUTH oF oon" distinctly set forth
in the book of Revelation, have an infallible crite-
rion by which to test the true character of any re-
ligious opinion or practice. And in the gospel dis-
pensation introduced byour Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, the inspired volumes of the Old and New
Testaments constitute the true and only infallible
rule of faith and conduct ; nor can any radical or
fundamental error long escape detection when sub-
jected io this plain and unerring standard.
APPENDIX.
[AFTER the present volume was more than half completed,
and after that portion of it containing the principal extract•
from Mr. Pierson's papers had been stereotyped, the writer
obtained for examination some hundred or more pages of
his manuscripts and journals, of the existence of which he
was not before apprized. Had he received these papen at
an earlier day, some farther use woulJ 'have been made of
them in their chronological order. Even as it is, a few
additional extracts have been made, and are here added by
way of appendix, as tending to the farther elucidation of the
character of Mr. Pierson, and as matters of curiosity.]
A.
The following document is a copy of the prayer and cove-
nant of Mr. Pierson, made, probably, on connecting himself
with the church, Jan. 2, 1820. It was written out, and
signed and sealed-a practice recommended by Dr. Dod-
dridge and other eminent experimental Christian writers.
Nothing can breathe a more fen·ent and delightful spirit of
piety than this instrument, and the renewal of it six months
afterward. How strange, that a sun which rose so brightly,
should have gone down in deepest gloom!
0 thou great and greatly exalted and incomprehensible
Jehovah, who alone art God, and who alone art worthy of
the praises and adorations of all thy creatures-thou who
searches! the hearts of the children of men, search my heart,
0 my God, and make it sincere in the high privilege in which
it is now to be engaged.
0 my God, I, the creature of thy power, deoire with great
humility and abasement of ooul to deplore my past rebellion
00
326 APPENDIX.
~gains\ thee, and against thy holy and righteous laws, and
desire to lay down the weapons of my rebellion agamst thee
as my lawful Sovereign, Creator, and Preserver. Great and
exalted God, who art the Lord of lords and 1( ing of kings,
though thou art exalted above all comprehension, yet thou
condescendest to become the Saviour of sinners through
Jesus Cl,mt thy dearly beloved Son.
In the name of this precious Saviour do I, who am a lost,
perishing sinner, desire to come to thee and take bold of thy
strength, that I may make peace with thee, 0 Lord, and be
enabled to be at peace with thee. ':Vith a heart filled with
gratitude at thy condescension to the children of men, I desire,
by this solemn and deliberate act, to accept of this precious
Saviour, Jesus Christ, as he is offered in the Gospel; to
renew the vows made for me in baptism in the name of the
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; and those vows which by thy
grace thou hast enabled me to make in a public manner in
thy sanctuary, and this day again renewedly to dedicate my-
self to thee, 0 my God, to be thine in an everlasting cove-
nant, choosing and cleaving to thee as the desire of my heart,
and only portion for time and for eternity, renouncing the
world and its vanities, consecrating myself and all that I am
and have to thy service and glory.
Be pleased, blessed God, to accept the offering here made
thee (with an humble dependance on thy helping grace, which
alone will enable me to perform my vows). Grant me, 0 my
Father, the fulness of thy love and grace in Jesus Christ.
Let me be washed in the precious blood of the dear Redeem-
er; let me be clothed in his righteousness; let me be sanc-
tified by his spirit, and transformed more and more into his
image. Number me among thy peculiar people; inscribe my
name in the Lamb's book of life; grant me the blessed Com-
forter to COlli fort me, to teach me, and to lead me in the way
of all truth. Put thy fear in my heart, that it may never de-
part from thee; write thy law upon my heart that it may be
a light to my feet and lamp to my path; grant fue a double
portion of meekness, lowliness, and homility. Enable me to
walk humbly with thee, my God; grant me perfect resignation
to thy holy will ; enable me to spend the remainder of my
days in thy service, and in the light and under the smiles of
thy countenance. 0 my God and Father, when thou seest
me going astray from thy holy commandments, let this cove-
APPE:SDIX. 327
nant pass in remembrance bPfore thee, 0 my beloved Father,
and wilt thou in tender mercy lead me quickly back to the
true and living way! Grant me grace to keep this covenant:
aud when it shall please thee to call me hence, wnt thou
lOok down on me, thy languishing, dying child, and in cove-
nant love strengthen and support me in that trying moment,
and enable me with my latest breath to glorify thee, the
faithful and everlasting God, and then receive my spirit, that
it may dwell with Jesus its Redeemer, and behol<l his glory.
And now, holy and blessed Father, for the sake of Jesus the
Son of thy lo,·e, blot out all my mamfold transgressions, and
forgire me freely for his sake who died for sinners.
,,~hat thou scest amiss in this solemn transaction, forgive;
what thou seest 1 need that 1 have not asked, grant.
Accept me now, 0 my belo,·ed Father. i\ly heart's desire
is to be thine for ever. 0 that this desire might be sincere,
and come up acceptably before thee. To thee, the only true
God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, be rendered everlasting
praises. Amen. ELIJAH PIERSO~. [L. S.]
1\'tw- York, Sunday, January 2, 1820.
Most holy and blessed God, my heavenly Father, I desire
to confirm this covenant, and renewedly to dedicate myself to
thee, my God and Creator, to deplore and lament my past
unworthiness and unprofitableness, and in view of them to be
deeply humbled before thee, my God, and cast myself upon
thy free and sovf'reign mercy in Jesus Christ; and with an
humble dependance upon thy helping grace, desire to renounce
the world and its vanities, to choose thee, my hea,·enly
Father, as my portion for time and for etPrnity.
0 Lord God, for Christ's sake, accept me; draw my affec-
tions from o.ll created good, that they may centre in thee alone;
give me holiness of heart; give me greater conformity to thee;
fire my soul with holy love to thee; sanctify me by thy holy
~pirit; grant me sweet communion with thee, my Father, and
give me the spirit of thy children.
Greatly strengthen thou me for all the duties and trials of
life; as my day is, so let my strength be. Fit me to live,
and prepare me for death; and when [ shall have finished my
course, may my spirit for ever rest in the bosom of Christ ita
Redeemer. Amen. ELIJAH PIERSON.
New- York, July 4, 1820.
328 APPENDIX,
B.
FORMATIO~ OF MR. PIERSON'S CHURCH AT
BOWERY HILL.
• [The following is Mr. Pierson's account of the manner in
which he and his associates constituted the Bowery Hill
Church, under his own ministration, describing the forms
and ceremonies observed.]
Sunda.y, Feb. 28, 1830. It was a very rainy day, and
none of us contemplated going out. Mrs. P. was ill in her
bed, but well enough heartily to unite in this transaction.
We assembled in the back room down stairs, E. P., S. P.,
Catharine P., and T . G. Freeman.
After reading the 1st of Acts, and prayer, we were moved
by the Holy Ghost to form ourselves into a Church, after the
following manner ;-
In the first place, I (E. P.) was set apart by prayer and
laying on of hands for the work.
Next, Sarah was set apart in the same manner for the same
purpose. After, Timothy and Caty, in the same way, to join
and receive the right hand of fellowship, when they were reg·
ularly dismissed from their present conQexions.
I then gave the right hand of fellowship to Sarah, and
greeted her with a holy kiss, and welcomed her to all the
privileges and blessings of the Church of Christ.
Durmg the exercises, we all enjoyed, in a remarkable man·
ner, the pre!'ence of Jesus.
Sarah and myself had special witness from the Lord that
we had done according to the mind of the Lord, and that he
was well pleased with our faith and obedience in doing it.
When we had done, the Lord bade me write it in a book.
I then wrote the covenant, which was sifined by me and her.
We used frequently to unito together In prayer concerning
the Church, and it appeared as if the Lord was well pleased
with us in the matter, and always gave us precious encourage-
ment about its prosperity. Once he presented a Bible, all
gold, opened to the Acts of the Apostles, to the view ofSarah's
mind. To me Jesus appeared to come in kingly attire, \vith
a crown.
I was exceedingly desirous of being instructed in his word,
that we might in every thing follow him. I heard a word
saying, "'hen he came he would teach us all things.
APPENDIX,
c.
tit will be recollected, that Matthews pretended to be a
Jew; and Mr. Pierson, after he was transformed first into
Elijah the Tishbite, and afterward into John the Baptist, ima-
gined himself to have become a Jew also. Matthias preach-
ed, and Pierson then believed, that the Jews were guiltless
of the crucifixion of the Saviour. The following is l\1r. Pier-
son's argument upon the question, found by the writer among
his papers.]
Wllo are legally aaountable for the death of Jesus of
Naoareth?
It is written, Behold, we go up to Jeru.alem, ancl the Son
of man shall be :lelivered unto the chief priests and nnt<> the
scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall de-
liver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him, and shall
scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him.
Mark x., 33, 3-!.
Matt. xx., 19. And shall d~livcr him to the Gentiles to
mock, and to scourge, and to crucify.
Luke xviii., 32, 33. For he shall be delivered unto the
Gentiles, and &hall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and
spitted on, and they shall scourge him anJ put him to death.
Jesus delivered to the Gentiles.
Matt. xxvii., 2. And when they had bound him, they led
him away, and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor.
John xi~ .• 10. Then saith Pilate unto Jesus, Speakest
thou not unto me 1 Knowest thou not that I haYe power to
crucify thee, and have p~wer to release thee 1
Luke xxiii., 2•
1 And Pilat~ gave sentence that it should
be as they required.
1\!att. xx,·ii., 26. Then released he Barabbas unto them.
And when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be
crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into
the common hall, and gathered unto them the whole band.
And they stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe; and
when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his
head, and a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee
oefore him, and mocked him; saying, Hail, King of the Jews.
t. c 2
330 APPENDIX.
And they spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on
the head. And after they had mocked him, they took th6
robe from off him, and put his own raiment on him, and led
him away to crucify.
Luke xxiii., 33. And when they were come to the place
which is called Calvary, there they crucified him and the
malefactors.
John x1x., 34, 38. But one of the soldiers with a spear
pierced his s1de.
And after this Joseph of Arimathea besought Pilate that
he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave
him leave.
Comments.
From the above portions of Scripture we learn, that Jesus
was betrayed unto the chief priests and scribes, and by
them delivered to the Roman governor in Judea, Pontius
Pilate, who gave sentence against him, and delivered him to
his own soldiers, who put on him the scarlet robe, the crown
of thorns, mocked him, spit on him, and crucified him, and
pierced him in his side, when dead delivering his body to Jo-
seph for interment.
This narrative in the Scriptures is so clear and conclusive,
that no shade of doubt can arise against the conclusion that
the Roman governor is legally accountable for the death
of Jesus of Nazareth. And that when the Avenger of his
blood shall come, it will be required of the Gentiles.
Again: long before the death of Jesus took place, the na-
tionality of the Jews had ceased, and they were governed by
governors put over them by the Roman emperors, Pontius
Pilate being the Roman governor at that time.
The lawful rulers of a country are held accountable for the
transactions done under their control; they only have a right
to use force to prevent crime and to execute the laws.
Thus Paul was rescued by the Roman governor from the
people, who were desirous of killing him. Acts xxi., 31,
32, 33.
The custom of the Roman government was to leave their
conquered provinces the free exercise of their religious opin-
ions and ceremonies, and this the Jews continued to do, with
little interruption, till Jerusalem and the Temple were de-
stroyed.
The chief priests and scribes say, John xviii., 31, in an-
APPENDIX. 331
swer to Pilate's request that they should take Jesus, and judge
him according to their laws, "It is not lawful for us to put
any man to death."
Yet they say, John xix., 7, "The Jews answered him, we
have a law, and by our law he ought to die."
These show us, that the right to put persons to death had
been taken from them by the Romans. Matt. xxvii., 25.
"Then answered all the people and said, his blood be upon
us and on our children." \Vhen God makes inquisition for
blood, he will seek for it where it is, in the hands of the
guilty, and that upon legal principles, however men may de-
termine to the contrary.
The position, that Gentiles are guilty of the blood of Jesus
of Nazareth, enables us to determine the application of the
parable of the vineyard and husbandmen, Matt. xxi., 32,
41, Mark xii., 1-9, Luke u., 9, 16. Jt is said," \Vhen the
lord of the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto these hus-
bandmen 1 He will miserably destroy those wicked men, and
will let out the vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall
render him the fruits in their seasons." Matt. xxi., 40, 41.
This parable had a partial application to those who heard
it from the mouth of Jesus.
But its grand application is to those who killed the Son,
and the killing of the Son is the moving cause of the deter-
mination of the Lord to destroy them, and give the vineyard
to others who will make a good use of it.
Thus we see that the ark is to be taken from the Gen-
tiles, and to be restored to the Jews. Obadiah says, 15, 16,
17. "for the day of the Lord is near upon all the heathen,
as thou hast done it shall be done to thee; thy reward shall
return upon thine own head.
"For aa ye ha,·e drunk upon my holy mountain, shall all the
heathen drink continually ; yea, they shall drink, and they
shall swallow down, and they shall be as though they had
not been. But upon Mount Zion shall be deliverance, and
there shall be holiness."
Paul, in Rom. xi., 20, says, "The branche• were broken off,
that the Gentiles might be grafted in. \Veil; because of un-
belief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not
high-minded. For if God spared not the natural branches,
lest he spare not thee.
"Behold, therefore, tho goodness and severity of God: on
332 APPENDIX.
them which fell, severity ; but towards thee, goodness, if thgu
continue in goodness, otherwise thou also shalt be cut off."
>Vhat application can be made of Paul's doctrine' Have
the Gentiles stood in the faith? Is the institution called the
Church now in the world like that established by the Saviour
and his apostles? Do its present condition and character
agree with the pattern left for their guidance and direction 1
Are the people called Christians all of one heart and one
soul1 Have they all things common like those of old 1 Are
their teachers filled with faith and the Holy Ghost 1 Do they
heal the sick, raise the dead, and cast out devils 1
If these things have not been, and continued to be done,
then the Spirit of Jesus and his apostles is not with them;
they are bastards, and not true-born sons. Then the Gentiles
have not stood in the faith, and God will not spare them, but
will cut them off, and give the vineyard to others, bringing
forth the fruits thereof. The inquiry may be made.
D.
AGAINST SHAVING OFF THE DEARD.
[The reason of wearing his beard long 'has been briefly
noticed in this volume, in the manner stated by Mr. Pierson
to a friend in conversation. Among his papers, the writer
has discovered the following argument upon the subject,
which is certainly entitled to the praise of ingenuity.]
\Vhy should a man wear his beard 1
Ans. Because God made him with it.
'When God made man it is said, " So God created man in
his image." Gen. i., 26, 27.
When Adam came perfect from the hands of his Maker, he
had a full-grown beard. Does any one suppose he shaved it
off while in paradise?
When God sent his Son Jesus into the world, he was seen
with a beard according to his age.
Jesus said, John xiv., 9, "He that hath seen me hath seen
the Father."
In Adam and Jesus we have the two witnesses of God,
declaring and confirming to men in all ages and to all the
APPENDIX, 333
world, what his mind is on th.is subject,-for in the mouth
of two or three witnesses every word shall be established.
Besides, these witnesseo have never beeu corrupted by tra-
ditions of men. Their testimony is of the purest character.
If Adam was to reappear in the worl<l, would he not be
surprised to see beardless men, and inquire whether they
were ashamed of him, their father, on account of his beard,
or say, You think you have become wiser than God was
when be made me in his image 1
Vvhen God gave his people a code of laws for their gov-
ernment by Moses, shaving was expressly forbidden. Levit.
xix., 27. "Ye shall not round the corners of your heads,
neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard." Levit.
xxi. 5. "Neither shall they shave off the corners of their
beard."
God's chosen people wore the beard; it was considered a
reproach to be without it.-See 2 Sam., x., 4. " \ Vhere-
fore Hanun took DJvid's servants, and shaved off the one
half of their beards, and sent them away. \ Vhen they told
unto David, he sent to meet them, because the men were
greatly ashamed: and the king said, Tarry at Jericho (a
frontier city) until yonr beards be grown, and return."
God made our bodies for himself to dwell and walk in.
2 Cor. vi., 14-18. "I will dwell in them and walk in them:
and I will be their God, and they shall be my people."
\\'hen God made our bodies, was there a deficiency of
' wisdo:n 1 \Vho is authorized to alter or disfigure God's
dwclling1 Rom. ix., 20.* "Shall the thing formed say," &c.
\Vhat does shaving preach 1
Ans. That God has given us something not only useless,
but bnrdensome, and that we must almost daily be at the
trouble of ridding ourselves of it. Thus we dally reproach
our Maker, and his Son Jesus. Rom. ix., 20.
It is said that it is singular. This forms no objection why
it should not be practised.
Because it is singular for men to be holy in this age, will
any one say we ought not to be holy 1 Men oftP.n pray to be
like Jesus. Now, if their prayers were never answered,
would they have beards 1
* Nay, but 0 man, who art thou that replies( a~ainst God I
Shall thP. thing formed say to him that formed, why hast thou
made me thus ?-Note by Nr. Fulger.
334 APPENDIX.
·who was Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God i
Ans. A Jew. If the Son be a Jew, what is the Father!
Jesus said, John iv., 22, "Salvation is of the Jews. Ye
worship ye know not what: we know what we worship."
Again he says, John xiv. 9, "He that hath seen me hath
seen the Father."
When God appears, his sons are to be like him. 1 Johu iii., 3.
The beard is the grand visible distinction between the
male and female. It denotes age, wisdom, strength, and
gives dignity to the being God has made lord of his creation.
Henceforth, men who become holy will wear their beards
by the appointment of God.
Children have no beards: so those who are children in the
kingdom of God will have no beards, till they be grown to tho
age and stature of young men.
E.
THE SABBATH OF YEARS.
[The fol)owing meditation contains Mr. Pierson's notions
respecting the Seventh Millennium, or the great Sabbath of
years.]
June 2fl, 1832. Meditation. God made all his works in
five days, and the sixth day made man, and gave them com-
mandment what to do, and rested on the seventh day.
This is a type of what God is about to do now ; viz :
The new creation is to be completed and made perfect be-
fore the Sabbath of years begins, that is, before the six thou-
sand years are ended, that God may rest from all his works
on the seventh thousand years.
The new creation is the new heavens and new earth for
men to dwell in, and new men after God's image, holy, and
that entire renovation of the animal and vegetable world
which is needful. The entire destruction and banishment of
the wicked from the earth before the six thousand years are
ended.
God will then have nothing to do but rest on the seveuth
thousand years, and bless them, and enjoy the fruit of his
labour.
The world to he a Garden of Eden.
APPENDIX. 335
[The consecration of his ho)lse in Fourth-street, as a
place of worship, after his removal from the Dowcry Hill, has
been mentioned in the text. The following entry occurs in
his diary upon the subject.]
Friday evening, 6 o'clock, Ap1·il 19, 1832. Finished fixing
the carpets, cleaning the house, &c.
\Vhile meditating on the goodness of God for his help and
aid in all our moving, the Spirit said, Sanctify your house unto
the Lord.
I was directed to go into every room, from the cellar to the
garret, praying that God would take up his abode with me
m the house. Keep all evil from us, let no destroyer come
nigh us, keep us from fire and all hurtful elements, give me
power to speak his words. Grant hearing ears to the
people, &c. &c.
[The particular occasion of the following entry is not
known.)
June 3d and 1th, 1833. Go not anywhere abroad. Hide
thyself three months till the indignation be overpast. I
will bring evil upon this place, such as has never been, be-
cause they have rejecte•l my words, and thee my servant.
\Vo, wo, wo unto this place.
F.
DOCTOR CO~DICT'S STATEMENT.
[The elder Do~tor Condict, a physician of standing, and
a gentleman of high respectability, conceiving that his tes-
timony on the trial had not been correctly reported, has trans-
mitted to the writer the following statement respecting the
post mortem examination of ~lr. Pierson's body, in full. It
is deemed of sufficient importance for insertion entire.)
On the 18th August, 1834, the body of Elijah Pierson
was disinterred for -examination. The surface of it was of a
dark chocolate colour, and the face nearly black. The abdo-
men was laid open, a ligature passed round the resophagus
above the stomach, and another round the intestine below the
stomach, and the stomach then taken out of the body. It
336 APPENDIX.
seemed evidently less changed than any of the surrounding
parts. Its texture was firm ant! unimpaired. It could be
handled freely and roughly, without rupttning or injuring it•
coats. When first viewed, it was collapsed and contracted
into a small mass, and apparently empty. Externally, its
colour was scarcely changed, except on its anterior portion
and near its lower orifice, where it showed a redness, and its
vascularity was increased. Putrefaction had not apparently
beaun in any part of the stomach. The body was extremely
off~nsive, and traces of inflammation of the stomach being
evident upon its outer surface, it was taken home for further
inspection, and the body was again buried.
Upon opening the stomach, there was found near the
lower orifice, called the pylorus, a teaspoonful or more of
mucus, of a dark brown colour, about the consistence of
paste or starch. A little farther from the lower orifice or
pylorus, and upon the forepart of the stomach, was found a
substance resembling wet chalk or calomel, of a dingy
whitish colour, in quantity equal to about 8 or 10 grains of
calomel. The upper portion of the inner membrane, and
about one half of its entire surface, was nearly natural in ap-
pearance, except being more vascular. A spot or patch, of
a bright red colour, somewhat circular, and about three inches
in diameter, was found, extending from about an inch dis-
tant from the pylorus, along the forepart of the stomach, and
corresponding with the red spot upon the outside which was
first de•cribed. It was here that the whitish substance re-
sembling wet chalk was found. Half an inch higher was
another spot, of the same red colour, and about one third the
size of the former. By the sides of these red spots or
patches were three or four other patches, about the size of
a twenty-five cent piece, of a dark brown colonr, almost
black ; and under these dark spots, the inner membrane, or
inner lining of the stomach, sometimes called its mucous
coat, was very soft, pulpy, and disorganized. This inner, C1r
mucous membrane, at these dark spots, was somewhat
elevated-was readily scraped off by the finger nail or back
of the knife, feeling very pulpy when rubbed between the
fingers. Beueath this coat or membrane there was an
• effusion or extravasation of dark blood, having somewhat
the appearance of being charred. This extravasated blood,
lying between the two coats called the mucou"' and the mus·
APPEriDIX. 337
eular coat, had elevated the former by separating these two
coats, and gave the dark colour to these spots ; and when re-
moved, the muscular coat, upon which the dark blood was
spread, showed a bright red colour, extending a considerable
distance around the dark spots, with increased thickness of
oubstance, and enlargement of bloodvessels. The whole in·
ternal surface of the stomach seemed deroid of putrefaction.
Nothin" was found in the stomach except the little mucus
first m~ntioned, and the chalk-like powder.
The stomach and its little contents were carefully placed
in a jar, and sent to Dr. Torrey, Professor of Chymistry in
New-York, for the purpose of analyzing them, and it is un-
derstood and believed that no poisonous substance was de-
tected.
On the 21st of March, 1835, the body of Mr. Pierson wae
again disinterred, with a \·iew to an examination of the in..
testines and resophagus, which conducts food from the mouth
into the stomach. The body externally had advanced con-
•iderably in the putrefactive stage. The flesh about the
limbs was giving way and falling off. \Vhat remained of
the lungs was about the size of a fist, and black. The liver
and spleen had entirely disappeared. The resophagus or
gullet was drawn down, and cut off high up in the throat,
and with a considerable portion of the intestines, was carried
home for examination. The gnllet, at its -end Mar the
olomach, where it had been divided in August, was found to
be reddened, and somewhat thickened, for about an inch and
a half. It was slit open its whole length, and the remainder
appeared natural, the redness below gradually diminishing
till it disappeared. The whole was firm and unyielding,
having very little if any appearance of dissolution or of ten-
derness. Different portions were cut off from the intestinal
tube at different places, the feculent matters scraped off,
rinsed in water, and spread open. No marks of redness ap-
peared about them, nor any appearance of decay. They
were very firm and unyielding. They could not be torn by
the fingers, and possessed more tenacity than the gullet. It
was remarked, on cutting through the muscles or fleshy cover-
mg of the lower belly, immediately over the intestines, that
the flesh here was firm, and not decayed or decomposed more
than it i• usually found to be in the dead subject a few days
after death. There was very little if any offensive •mell at
Hh
338 ' APPENDIX.
the grave, and on inspecting the intestines after being taken
home, the only odour that was perceived was precisely like
that which is noticed on opening a box of old smoked herring.
This was very perceptible, and· was first noticed by Dr.
Canfield, whose position with respect to the wind was such
as to enable him first to remark it.
The examinations made in August and in March were in
presence of the same gentlemen, viz., Drs. Johns, Canfield,
and the two Condicts.
After the first examination, they unanimously concurred in
the opinion, that the appearances of the stomach were such
as to induce a strong apprehension that Mr. Pierson's death
had been occasioned by ~iolent mean.., and not by the prog-
ress of any known disease, terminating fatally. That there
was great reason to apprehend that his death had been pro·
duced by some poisonous substance taken into the stomach.
An opinion to thiS effect was committed to writing, was signed
by each of the physicians just named, and their affidavits
taken to attest their belief of its truth. They were all sub-
prenaed to attend the trial of Matthews alias Matthias, as
witnesses, in April, and they all attended excepting Dr.
Canfield. Two of them only were examined, and their ex-
aminations were limited almost exclusively to the appear-
ances of the stomach. Dr. Johns was not sworn or que•·
tioned. The trial was arrested on the second day, and no
opportunity given to the medical witnesses to show the
authorities, or cite the cases, or explain the reasons, upon
which their united opinion was formed.
They well knew that professional men held various opin-
ions on some of the points m question. They knew that
other physicians, entertaining different opinions on some of
these points, would probably be called to express their opin-
ions without having seen the stomach. They were stran-
gers in a strange land, unknown to the jury, to the bar, and
to the court, with but one exception. Their opinion in re·
spect to the death of Mr. Pierson w"s known as well to the
whole neighbouring country as it was to the court and the
jury. But their reasons for this opinion, and the auth<>ritier
In support of it, they had no opportunity to offer. The cauoe
was arrested from some defect of evidence relating to the
oymptoms, or to some other point, and of course no medical
books were quoted. In course of the examination and cross-
APPENDIX. 33!1
e:ramination of the two Drs. Condict, many question• were
asked concerning the symptoms which follow the administra-
tion of arsenic, and the manner in which arsenic produces
death, as well as tho ·appenrances which natural diseases pro-
duce in the stomach, resembling in some respects those
which follow the use of arsenic. And during this examina-
tion, an opinion was expressed, that the appearances in
Piersor~'s case led to the suspicion, perhaps to the belief,
that arsenic had passed into his stomach, allhough 110ne had
betn actually detected by chymical investigation. The ap-
pearances indicated arsenic noore pointedly than any other
poison; and yet it would not be safe to conclude, absoluttly
and certainly, that dea1h was caused by arsenic, unless arsenic
was found in the stomach. It was stated that arsenic might
produce death, and that many instances were on record in
which it had been knll111n to be ta!ten, and yet none was
found after death. It might be all carritd off by active
vomiting and purging, and yet produce death, and none re-
main in the stomach. The caee of Mr. Chapman, of Penn-
sylvania, was mentioned. No arsenic was found upon a
chymical analysis. Two or three most respectable physi-
cians testified, that taking all the appearances and symptoms
together, they believed Chapman died from poisoning with
arsenic. Mina, the Spaniard, accused of the murder, was
found guilty, and was hanged. The appearances of Chap-
man's stomach most strikingly resembled Pierson's. The
stomach and parts adjacent resisted putrefaction, and re-
mained sound a long time after death. Christison ancl Orfila
were mentioned as high authorities, and as containing many
cases in which the morbid appearances of the stomach, after
death from arsenic, were precisely the same as in Pierson's
ease.
Among other effects of arsenic, it was stated, that it
tended to preserve animal substances from putrefaction.
That there were many cases on record of persons and ani-
mals poisoned by arsenic, in which putrefaction did not take
place for months, and in soml>'instauces, for years, after death.
Medical authors do not all unite in the belief that arsenic
resists putrefaction, yet the recorded facts are so numerous
and strong as to enforce conviction with many.
A small quantity of Fowler's solution of arsenic was put
into a human stomach taken from the Almshouse in Phila·
340 APPENDIX,
delphia, for an experiment. It was left for two or three
months in Dr. Mitchill's laboratory, and did not putrefy in
that time. It had the strong hcning smell, as in Pierson's
case, and as in Chapman's case. · Christison, in his late and
celebrated treatise on Poisons, page 258, says, "I have kept
a bit of an ox's stomach four years in a solution of arsenic,
and except slight shrivelling and whitening, I could not ob-
serve any change in it." Some older writers have enter..
tained the opinion, that bodies poisoned by arsenic or other
active poisons, are hurried as it were into putrefaction.
Later experience, and many· well-attested facts, show the
fallacy of this opinion. If a few instances may have seemed
to give it some support, there were probably some peculiar
circumstances sufficient to account for the early decay, in-
dependently of the poison. In page 255, Christison says,
"Arsenic possesses the singular property of enabling the
bodies of men and animals poisoned with it, both to resist de-
cay unusually long, and to decay in an unusual manner."
He then proceeds to mention various cases. Iu the Ursinus
case, one body had been buried six months, and was not
putrid. Another body buried two and a half years was found
not putrid, but dried up as it were. Dogs poisoned with
arsenic, and left unburied two months in a damp cellar, their
flesh and alimentary canal were found fresh and red, as if
pickled. The bodies were then buried for eight months in a
wet place, when the intestines were found red and entire,
and the flesh mostly u~altered. In other instances, carcasses
buried three years were found to be dry and undecayed. In
page 257, he mentions the Begreuth ca.e, three bodies of
persons disinterred, one five months, one six months, and a
third oue fourteen months after death. The external parts
were found not properly putrid, but hard and cheesy In two
of them the intestines were entire, could be handled, tied,
taken out, and cut up. In one, a sloughy spot found near
the pylorus. Arsenic was found in two of the bodies. Dr.
Kelch buried the internal organs of a man k)lled by arsenic,
whose body had been unburied till the outer parts began to
decay. Five months after, he examined the stomach and
intestines, which had a peculiar smell, quite different from
putrid bowels. They were not yet acted on by putrefaction,
but were as fresh as 1chen first taken from the body, and
might have served to make_ anatomical preparations. Had
APPENDIX. 341
lost nothing of their colour, glimmer, or firmness. The in-
flamed spots on the stomach had not disappeared, and the
small intestines showed in some places the inflammatory
redne•s unchanged. Warden's case, p. 253.-Body buried
three weeks. 1\Iucous coat of the stomach, except its mere
surface, ~ery firm, and all the morbid appearances quite dis-
tinct. Three weeks after disinterment the vascularity had
disappeared; but the membranes, and the appearances in
them, remained in tile same state. Metzger's case.-An old
man died after six hours illness. Three drachms of arsenic
were found in his stomach. " The body was kept ten days
before burial. Eight days afterward it was disinterred. No
•ign of putrefaction anywhert."
Dr. \Voolper says, "bodies poisoned by arsenic resist
putrefaction;" and it is well known that it is used in stuffing
birds and beasts for preservation from decay.
llr. Borges relates a case, in which, fourteen weeks after
death, the stomach and intestines were found firm, of a gray-
ish white, containing crumbs of bread. The other organs
were pulpy, and the mternal.parts were cheesy. The Chen-
nitz case, in page 25 of Christison.-" In 1726, five weeks
after burial, the skin everywhere was putrid-the stomach
and intestines pe~fectly fresh."
In the Warden case, appearances were precisely the same.
"Three weeks after burial, external parts much decayed :-
three weeks later, the stomach and intestines were found by
Christison in a state of almost perfect presc~ation." Dr.
Borges killed a rabbit in less than a day with ten graina of
arsenic, buried it thirteen months under the eaves of a house.
'Vben dug up, the skin, muscles, ligaments, and all the or-
gans except the stomach and intestines, had disappeared, not
leaving a trace. The alimentary canal, from the throat to
the anus, with the hair, and bare bones, quite entire. \Vhen
the arsenic is all discharged suddenly bv vomiting, the stom-
ach and body may decay suddenly. Mitchell lived seven
days in great distress-vomited much,-" t!le stomach was
removed for minute examination. It decayed rapidly, and
in twenty-four hours its examination was impracticable, while
the body resisted putrefaction." Harles says, " This singular
property of arsenic is now no longer doubtful. Certain cir-
cumstances will limit it or impair it, while others will favour
or increase it either by the soil of the burying-gro~nd or the
F f2
342 APPENDJX,
air of the vault. These affect the decomposition of all bod·
ies indiscriminately, and will therefore affect the antiseptic
properties of arsenic. It would he absurd to ascribe to arsc·
nic the power of preventing putrefaction in all cases. Those
who use it for preserving skins, know well it does not pos•
sess it under all circumstances-nor does any other anti·
septic-not even alcohol."
Page 261. "In many instances of poisoning with arsenic,
the body has been found long after death in so perfect a stoJ.te
of preservation, as to admit of an accurate medicinal inspec-
tion and successful chymical analysis."
The proofs are numerous and strong, of the power of arse-
nic to resist putrefaction and preserve animal substances
from decay; and the high state of preservation in which Mr.
Pierson's internal parts were found, seven months after death,
affords strong ground of suspicion of its use in his case. The
cases recorded both in Christison and in Orfila, giving in
detail the morbid appearances of the stomach of persons killed
by arsenic, corresponding precisely with those found in Pier·
son's stomach, are amply sufficient to justify the written
opinion expressed by the four examining physicians, that the
presumption was strong, that Pierson came to his death by
violent means-that he died no/ of natural disease. They all
looked upon arsenic as the probable cause of his death, although
they found no positive proof.
Pierson died alone. No physician saw him. No account
could he had of his symptoms, except that he manifested
great distress by his groans, and died in convulsions-spasms
following each other in quick and rapid succession for thirty·
si,x or forty·eight hours or more, with a paralytic affection of
the limbs of one side. He had been subject to epilepsy in a
mild form, one spasm perhaps in ten days or two weeks, last·
ing from five to ten minutes, and then leaving him with a
perfect recollection and remembrance of all that had passed
in his presence during the paroxysm. The arsenic (if given)
produced high irritation and extreme distress of the stomach;
and nothing would more readily produce convulsions ending
m death, in_an epileptic patient, than an irritated state of
the stomach.
If the symptoms could have been known, and had corrobo.
rated the evidence which t.he stomach itself so plainly showed
after death-if to the symptoms, and to the morbid state of
APPENDIX. 343
the stomach, be added the sound coudttion-the unputrefied
state of the resophagus and intestines, seven month• and a
half after death, there probably would have been found few
persons, either on the bench, at the bar, or in the jury-box,
who could -resist the cour.lusion that arsenic was the cause
of his death,-by whom administered, is a question for others
than tnedical men to try and determine.
G.
["When the present work was projected, about the close
of the month of April, a letter was addressed by Dr. A.
,V. Ives, in behalf of the writer, to the Rev. Mr. Kirk of
•Albauy, for such infvrmation as he might be able to fur-
nish respecting the commencement of the prophetical career
of Matthews in Albany. Mr. Kirk replied very promptly,
but the letter was nearly a month in reaching its destination ;
and the work was more than half through the press when it
was received. It is now inserted in this place.J
DR. A. ,V. IVEs;
Albany, ftlay 2, 1835.
DEAR S1 R,- Your communication came to me in the preg..
sure of business. I would not add to the obloquy already rest-
ing ou the wicked man to whom you refer. Dut if I can state
any facts which may help to guard others against his vile
impositions, I will cheerfully contribute them. He called upon
me about the time when the church under my care was organ-
i<ed, which was in February, 1829. In our first interview,
his conversation was sensible, scriptural, and in the highest
toue of the reforming spirit. Dut there was nothing very
remarkable to make a favourable or unfavourable impression.
lie subscribed a small sum towards the erection of our
church edifice. It was remarked at the time by some of
whom he had purchased lumber, "He is a lazy, thriftless,
dishonest fellow ; and will never pay it." \Vhether the dec-
laration was true or not, the prophecy was. He applied for
admission to om church, and at the same time made severe
344 APPENDIX.
and unfounded charges against two of its most respectable
!"embers. Every inquiry we made satisfied us that we should
bring a firebrand into our society if he were admitted. We
accordingly rejected his application. But finding his family in
want ofsuitable clothing, we provided for them, that they might
attend the services of public worship. This was objected to
by many of our church, because he was a very ingenious,
skilful carpenter, who could eommand the highest wa/(es;
and therefore, by our charity, we were said to be sustaming
him in idleness. And this proved to be true. He would
neither work nor let others work. He was an incessant
talker. And being a stanch advocate for temperance, he
would go to worhhops, and irritate the men by his dogmatic
and injudicious mode of urging that important cause. It
was frequently said, at that time, that he would stay in gro-
cery stores at night, proclaiming the doctrines of temperance,
until he was turned out. I saw but little of him from the
time of his rejection hy our session. But the more I saw,
the more I suspected the purity of his zeal, and the more
manifest it was, that his disposition was exceedingly unlovely
anrl unchristian.
The next peculiar information I had concerning him, was
by a note sent to my pulpit one Sabbath morning from the
mayor of the city, calling on the citizens to turn out and
search for Matthews, who had gone off in a strange manner ·
with his children, and left his wife in great distress and alone.
Search was accordingly made ; he was found thirty miles
from the city. His account of the matter was, that Albany
was Sodom, and to be immediately destroyed; and he had
lied with his children for safety. I believe he was imprisoned
a little while as an insane man. I saw him soon after with
a long beard, haranguing in the street; and was convinced
that he meant to take advantage of his notoriety, and by im-
posing on the credulous, find an easier way to get food and
raiment than by the exercise of his mechanical skill and in-
dustry. I then lost sight and sound of him for some time,
until the name of Matthias the Prophet was reported from
New-York. A little inquiry developed the fact that this was
the very Robert Matthews who had proved himself here either
insane or an impostor. From that time you can trace him.
I may mention one other circumstance upon which I have
recently obtained light. I saw Mr. Folger after Mallhias'a
APPENDIX. 345
arrest, and asked him how he could be deluded by so bad a
man. He told me it was solely by his entire confidence in Mr.
Pierson; and that Matthews had told him I agreed entirely
in doctrine with him (M.). Now the fact which this ex-
plains is, that Mr. Pierson called and introduced himself to
me, perhaps two years ago, and talked on the subject of re·
ligion in a way which I did not then understand. But I now
see that the poor fellow came to have the assertion of Mat-
thews confirmed. This deliberate lie, when mentioned by Mr.
Folger, convinced me he was not crazy. And yet I consider
this whole affair as affording a melancholy confirmation of
this truth-\Vhen a man begins to do wrong, he knows not
where he will end. "Is thy servant a dog," &c., I have
thought again and again, while reading the horrible detail of
this man's career since I first saw him. You may use my
name or communication in any way.
E. N. KIRK.
H.
It was not, however, until Deslon, a French physician of
some eminence, had announced himself a convert and joined
Mesmer in the practice of magnetism, that ii acquired much
renown. Their method of operating was as follows:-
In the centre ofthe room was placed a vessel of an oval or cir-
cular shape, about four feet in dtameter and one foot deep. In
this were laid a number of bottles, disposed in radii, with their
necks directed outward, well corked ami filled with magnetized
water. \Vater was then poured into the vessel so as to cover
the bottles, and occasionally pounded glass or filings of iron
were added to the water. This vessel was termed the baquet.
From its cover, which was pierced with many holes, issued
long, thin, moveable rods of iron, which could be applied by
the patients to the affected part. Besides, to the ring of the
cover was attached a cord which, when the patients were
seated in a circle, was carried round them all so as to form a
chain of connexion ; a second chain was formed by the union
of their hands, and it was recommended that they should sit
so close that those adjoining should touch by their knees
and feet, which was supposed wonderfully to facilitate the
passage of the magnetic fluid. In addition to this, the magnet·
346 APPENDIX.
ists went round, placed themselves en rapport with the pa-
tiPnts, embraced them between their knees, and gently rub-
bed them down along the course of the nerves, using gentle
pressure over different regions of the chest and abdomen.
The effect of such treatment on delicate women might have
been foretold, but it was not left to work alone.
The house which Mesmer inhabited was delightfully situ-
ated ; his rooms spacious and sumptuously furnished; stained
glass and coloured blinds shed a dim, religious light; mirrors
gleamed at intervals along the walls ; a mysterious silence was
preserved, delicate perfumes floated in the air, and occasion-
ally the melodious sounds of the harmonica or the voice came
to lend their aid to his magnetic powers. His salons became
the daily resort of all that was brilliant and spirituel in the
Parisian fashionable world. Ladies of rank, whom indolence,
voluptuous indulgence, or satiety of pleasure, had filled with
vapours or nervous affections; men of luxurious habits, ener-
vated by enjoyment, who had drained sensuality of all that it
could offer, and gained in return a shattered constitution and
premature old age, came in crowds to seek after the delight-
ful emotions and novel sensations which this mighty magician
was said to dispense. They approached with imaginations
heated by curiosity and desire ; they believed, because they
were ignorant; and this belief was all that was required for
the action of the maanetic charm. The women, always
the most ardent in enthusiasm, first experienced yawnings,
stretching, then slight nervous spasms, and finally, crises of
excitation, according as the assistant magnetizers (jeune1
hommes, beaux et robustes comme des Hercules) multiplied
and prolonged the soft passes or attouchemens by which the
magnetic influence was supposed to be communicated. The
emotions once begun were soon transmitted to the rest, as
we know one hysterical female, if affected, will induce an at-
tack in all others similarly predisposed in the same apartment.
In the midst of this strange scene entered Mesmer, clothed
in a long flowing robe of lilac-coloured silk, richly embroidered
with golden flowers, and holding in his hand a long white
wand. Advancing with an air of authority and magic gravity,
he seemed to goYern the life and movements of the individ-
uals in crises. Women panting were threatened with sulfo-
cation,-they must be unlaced ; others tore the walls, or
rolled themselves on the ground, with strong spasms in the
APPENDIX. 347
throat, and occasionally uttering loud shrieks,-the violence
of the crises must be moderated. He approached, traced
over their bodies certain lines with his wand ; they became
instantly calm, acknowledged his power, and felt streams of
cold or burning vapours through their entire frames according
to the direction in which he wav•d his hand.-Foreign Quar-
terly RetJitw on the Report of the F,-ench Royal Academy,
and the Royal Academy of Medicine.
VALUABLE WORKS
PUDLlSHXD BY
HARPER & BROTHERS, No. 82 CL!n'-STREET
NEW-YORK.
The Historv of l\fod-
ern Europe, fr~m lhe Ht~e of
the :\totlern Kingdom~ IO the
l're!fcnt PcnoJ. Bv \V\1 .
H e"~~..:t,L, LI..U., at,;l \\'\t ,
J,,-.;.,._-., Esq. \Vith Annnta-
tious by a11 American. lu 3
vols. Svo.
The Historical \Yorks
of the Rev. \V~. non.: RTso~,
ll.U. i COinJlTi!'lillg llif'l: IJil•;tory
of Amcrica; C'harles \". ; ~ l·ot·
lautl, anti Ind-ia. In :J vo[s. bvo.
\Yah Plates.
Gibbon's History of the
Decline aucl Fall of the Horn~n
E111pirc. In 'i vols. !:)vo. \\'tth
l'!ate~.
~~da~~~~;5~s ;~'~:~~~~~;;;~YI;~
c~~~.·e.~k~~if~:IJ~~:,]t•:;~t.~·ffi~)·.~o:~ti~
eY·ry r~flee:t. Th('y ue_d.-cnletlly 'he
be'! e<lliiOilS oo.·eor pui.Jii~JH:J lllo thiS
couctry.
En~lish Synonymcs,
with .~.,piau~ ll fu<:.t r·.uion~ anJ
Explanatiuns, drawn from the
hcst \Vritt!r.S. lly f:. CKABB1
M.A. A 1'\ew Editi,Jn1 en-
larged. l')vo
The llook of Nature ;
neing a Pop•Jiar IJin<;jtr:tlion of
the General Lf!.\'1.'~ and Phenom-
enaol't'reation, &c. llyJ. M.
Guon, ~I. D. and F.R.S. 8\'0.
\Vtth his Life.
Life of Dr. E. D.
Clarkr-. Bvo.
Hooper's 1\Te<.lical Dic-
tion."ln'. Frum theJa.qt London
Ed•tuli1. \\'1th .A.dduions, by
S. A!o.:r:.L...-, ~l.lJ. 8vo.
Cooper's Sur~ical Dic-
1\imary. In 2 vols. Svo
Grcntly Clllurgcd.
Good's (Dr. Jon)i l\L)
Study of :'ltedieiHe. In 5 vols..
b\'O. A 1'\ew EJulon. With
.,~\<lditions 1 hy S. Cnorea, M.U.
Art of Invigorating and
Pr<Jionging Life. By \Vx.
Kt-r<.ut!liv.tt,~l.U. 18mo.
The Qook's Oracle,
an{\ lf on~ckeepPr's Manual.
BY the S11.me. Adapted to lh8
Ainerican Public. 12mo.
Domestic Duties; or,
Instructions to :\larried Ladies.
By Mrs. \VM. PARK~.'il, 12mo
:\1iss Smith's Mo•lern
American Cookery. 16mo.
Records of my Life.
lly J. TAYLOR, Esq. flvo.
The Family Library.
Consisting of useful \\~orks on.
various antercsting subjects.
J8mo.
The Family Classical
Library. 18mo.
The Boy's and Girl's
Library. JSmo.
·2 Works Published by l1<1rper <!- Brothers.
An Elementary Treat- Polynesian Researches ·
itsa on l\le(~hanics.. Tran~lated duriu~ a Residcnct: of nearly
from the French ofl\l.llouchar· Eight Year~ ;n 1hc Socicry sud
lat, with Addith.,ns, by E. II. 8andwic:h lsiands By \¥M
CouRTI!:N.\.Y. Svo. ELLIS, In 4 vols. 12mo.
Treatise on Shadows The Comforter; or,
and Perspective. By CnAKLES Consolation for the At'!licted.
DAV!t:S. Svo. l2mo.
Davies' Elements of A Treatise on the i\Iil-
Descriptive Gcomcuy. Svo.
Davies' Surveying. Svo.
Gibson's Surveying.
Improved and enlarged. 13y
J. RYAN. Svo.
T ables for Surveyors.
Carefully prepared. 12mo.
Brown's Dictionary of
the Holy Bible. From 1he last
~enuine Edinburgh Edition.
lenmum. lly Jtev. G. llcsa.
I2mo.
Religious Discourses.
By Sn \ V, ScoTT, Uart. ISmo.
Letters from the .lEge-
an. Jly J. EMERSON, Esq. 8\'Q,
A l\1emoir of the J,ife
of \Vi\liam Livingston, LL.H
By T. Sll:DGWlCK, Jun. Svo.
l·ortrail.
Svo. The Life of John .Tay.
Brown's (J.) Concord- With Selections from his Cor·
anee. Printed on Diamond respondenrc H!ld ~Jrsc<'llaneous
type, in the 32mo form. Papers. By his ~on '':''1. JA'i
The ' Yorks of the Rev. Iu 2 vots. bvo. I ortrar<.
JouN w..~..v, M.A. Wilh Life of Lord Byron.
his Life. Complete in 3 vols. Uy T. MooR,;, Esq. In 2 vo\s.
Svo. From the la~St London Svo. Portrait.
Edition. With a Portrait.
Works of Rev. Robert
11nll. \Vith Memoirs of his
Life, &c. In 3 vol~. Svo.
Se'rmons on Important
Subjects, hy the Rev. SAM UK r.
lhn~~, :\I.A., som~time Presi·
dent of the Collpge of~ew-Jcr·
sey. 1n 3 ''t:;Is. t!vo.
Keith on the Prophe-
cies. l2mo.
Present State of Chris-
tianity in all Pans ofthe \Vorld.
By the Hev. F ScaoBKRL.
12mo.
ApicianMorsels. 12mo.
Lives and Exploits of
llamliui and Robbers in all
PJrls of the \Vorld. fly MAc~
f"AKL ... :-.~o:. In 2 vols 12mo.
:\Iemoirs of the Duch·
~ss D'AhrantCs. 8vo.
I.ives of the Signers of
tbe Declination of lndcpend·
ence. J2mo.
The Literary Hemains
of the l3tC Henry Neelc. Author
of the" Roruance of History,"
&:c. &c. 6vo.
Life of Lord Edward
Fitzgerald. ByT.i\looRa:,Esq
In 2 vols. l2mo. Portrail.
Works Published Tnt Harper <t Brother~.
The Works of l\Trs.
Sherwood.
ln Pre::~s.
Pcrf~cl Edition.
History of the Jews.
Jt v the Rev II. II. MtL!It.AN.
In 3 vol:o~. lthno.
Life of Napoleon Bona-
p..trte. By J. G. LOI KH \RT,
l~"i!f. \Vilh L'opperrlate En·
grt~,•ing~. Jn 2 vol:::1. JSmo.
Life of Nelson. lly
\Vith a
Narrative of Discovery
and Adventure in Africa, from
the Earliest Age~ 10 the Prt!S·
ent Tune. Hy SC\'eral Popular
Authors. Wrth a Map and
\Vood Engravmgs. 18mo.
Lives of Eminent Paint-
ers unJ. Sculpture. lly A. Ct•N·
NINO HAM, Esq. In~ vol~. ISmo.
History of Chivalry and
the Crusades. By G. P. R.
JA~ns, E~q. \Vub. a Plate.
18mo.
H Sllurm.:y, r-.:~(1·
Purlnut. 18mo.
Life of l\Iary Queen of
Life o{ AlexanJer the scots. ny 11. a. B•LL. In 2
Grt.~at. lly the Hev. J. \Vn.- vuls. 18mo. Portrait.
1.1 \~~- \\'llh a .\lttp. ll"lmo.
Natural History of In-
sec!~. Illustrated by numerous
Brrgrtl\'mg-.. htuo.
I.ife of Lortl Byron.
By J. a.,[. r, ESIJ. ISmo.
Life of Mohammed.
Bv the H.tlv, (_;, Uusu, A.M.
\\'illl a Plate. 18mo.
Letters on Demonology
RIHI \Vttchcr..tfi. Uy Sir \V.
s,·,n·r, Uart. l~mo.
History of Egypt. By
the Hev..M. Rus!'IKLI., LL.D.
'Vith En~raving$. 18mo.
History of Poland. By
J. FLto;TC'HkJI., Esq. \Vith a
Portrait of Kosctusko. lbmo.
Festivals, Games, and
.Amusements, Ancient and
;\[odcrn. Uy II. ~MtTn. JSmo.
Life of Sir Isaac New-
too. Hy D. BR"-WS1'k'R 1 LL.D
Vlith a Portrait. lBmo.
History of the Bible. Palestine; or, the Holy
Hy rho Uc v. G. H. G~or.to. In J...and. Hy the Rev. M. ltus·
~ vol"i. l8mo. \Vlth i\laps of ti"LL, LL.U. lSmo.
l'alc•linc, &.c. A Description of Pit-
Narrative of Discovery c>lrn's l•laud and its Inhabit·
Rnd .J.d venture iu the Po:ar ent!i, Wtth an authentic AC·
Sea:-~ 1\1111 Jt,·~tuns. By sever11.l cnunt of the :\lntiny oft he !=ihip
Pojmlar Authors. \Vtth .\laps, Hounty, and of the suh~e·
&c.c. 1!:3utfl. queut Foroane~ of thtJ Muti·
Life and Times of neers. l'lat~s. JSmo.
Geor~e the I'nurlh. With .In· Sacred History of the
crtlot••s of Utlitilll!'lbhecl Per· I \\'orld, tiS di<::played in the ( 're·
Ko:t~ of !he la!!t F1fly \"ear-J. at10n anc! sub~t!IJuent Event~ lo
Hy lhc Rev C . CttoLY. With the Deluge. By S. TuRNl!P.,
B l'unrail. J~u1o. I F.S.A., &c. lbmo.
Court a:,J Camp of Bo- ' Nnhia anti Ahyssinia.
nuparlc. Portrait. l~mo. I Uy H~v )J. Uusu:LL. I8mo.
4 Work• Publi~hell by :t?arper .Y. Brothers.
Falkland. A Novel. The Refugee in Amer·
By the Author of "Pelham," ica. A Novel. Dy Mrs. TROL-
&c. l2mo. LOP.ll:. Jn 2 vols. 12mo.
Conversations with an The Abbess. A Ro-
Ambitious Student in Ill mance. By the Same. In 2
Jlealth; with other Pieces. vols. 12mo.
By the S~:~.me. 12mo.
Posthumous Papers.-
F.,celiou!J and Fanciful. 12mo.
Romance of History.
France. By L. RtTCRI&, Esq.
In 2 volrot. 12lllo.
Romance of History.
Spain. ny Don T. DK 'fit U•
Cloudesley. A Novel.
Dy the Author of" Caleb \VII·
Jiams/' ln 2 Tols. l2mo.
Tales of the Early
A~es. Dy S!!!.ITH. In 2 vole.
J2mo.
Walter Colyton. By
S.'t'-TH. In 2 vols. J2mo.
.... In 2 vols. 12mo. Traits of Travel. By
Romance of History. T. c. GRATTAN. In 2 vols.
Italy. ny c . .MA.O'ARLANIC. 12mo.
In 2 vols. 12mo. The Ileiress ofllruges.
Martin Faber; the A Talo. By tho Same. In 2
:Story or a Criminal. An v•ls. l2mo.
.American Tale. lSmo. Contarini Fleming. A
The Taiba. A Novel. P•ycological Autohto~ravhy.
ny 1\lrs. Dl'lAY. ln 2 \'Ols. Ry the Author of" The Young
12mo. J)ui<e,'' &c. In 2 volt:t. 12mo.
The \Vhigs of Scot- Southennan. A Novel.
land. In 2 vols. l2mo. By GALT. Iu 2 volii. l2mo.
Recollections of a Cha- Lawrie Todd; or, the
peron. Edited by Lady DAc Rk:. Eettlcrs in the \Vooda. By J.
In 2 vols. 12mo. GALT. In 2 vols.l2rno.
Afl~cting Scenes; being Dreams and Reverie~
Passa2'es from the Dlnry of a of a Quiet l\Ian. ny T·. S.
JlhysJcJan. In 2 vols. l2mo. FAY, Esq. In 2 vols. I2mo.
Tales and Sketches. Romance and Reality
By \V•t. LKoGETT1 Esq. 12mo A I"o•el. By !\li!;s LANDON
Zohrab the Hostage~ In 2 vols. 12"'0'
A. !';owe!. By MoR!KR. Jn 2 France 111 1829-HO.
•ols. 12mo. Dy Lady )JoRuAs. In 2 vol8.
HaYerhill. A Novel. 12
'"
0
·
Ily J<»••· Jo 2 vols. J2mo. Hungarian Tales. By
l\fiserrimus. A Story. l\lrs. GoP'.E· In 2 vols.12mo.
ISmo. Ecarte. 2 vols. 12mo.
lVorks l'uU!!ilte!l Dy Harper 4- Brollters.
HISTORY OF CHARLEMAGNE. To which is pre·
xed an T
ntroduction, comprising the History of France
rom the Earliest Period to the Birth of Charlemagne. By
G. P. R. lA>~ Es, Esq. lSmo. "With a Portrait.
SKETCHES FRO~! VENETIAN HISTORY. By
the Rev. E. S>t"DLEY, l\!.A. In 2 vols. lSmo. With
Engravings.
NUBIA AND ABYSSINIA. Comprehending their
Civil History, AntiquitiPS, Arts, Religion, Literature, and
Natural History. By the Rev. :M. RusSELL, LL.D. 18mo.
\Vith a ~Tap am\ Engra,·ings.
MD10TRS OF CELEBRATED FE~fAtE SOVE-
REIGXS. Dy 1lrs. JA>tESON. In 2 vols. lSmo.
LIFE OF MARY QUEE:\' OF SCOTS. Bv HENRY
GL..s•FORD DELL, Esq. In 2 vols. lSmo. \\'ith ~ Portrait.
MD!OIRS OF THE E~TPRESS JOSEPHINE. Dy
Jous S. :ITE>tEs, LL.D. 18mo. \\"ith Portraits.
THE LIFE OF NAPOLEO:\' BONAPARTE. By J.
G. LocKHART, Esq. In 2 vols. ISrnc. \Vith Portraits.
TITE LIFE OF NELSO:\'. By RoBERT SouTHEY,
J.L.D. !Smo. \Yith a Portrait.
THE LIFE OF FREDERIC THE SECO:'<D, Kmg
of Prussia. Dy LoRD DovER. In 2 vols. I8mo. \\'ith a
Portrait.
TilE LIFE A!\"D ACTTOXS OF ALEXANDER
THE GRE.\T. By Rev. J. \Y1LLIA>ts. lSmo. With a
Map.
LIFE AXD TI:I!ES OF GEORGE THE FOURTH.
" 'ith Anecdotes of Distinguished Persons of the lasl
fifty Years. Rv P.cv. GEORGE C•ot.v. ISmo.
6 Works Publ1s~ci! oy rtarpcr q. Brotheu.
Youth anu l\Ianhoou of 'Vestwaru Ho! A
Cyril Thornton. A Novel. In
2 vols. l2mo.
The Dutchman's Fire-
•ide. A Tale. fly J. K.
P....ut.mNa, Esq. Jn 2 vois.
l2mo.
The Young Duke. A
r\0\·el. By the Author of
"Vivian Grey." In 2 vols.
12mo.
Anastasius. A Novel.
In 2 vol~. 12mo.
Novel Uy the Author of u The
Dutchman's Fireside." In ~
vols. 12mo.
Tales of Glauber-Spa.
lly 1\liss St.:tlGWICK, :Messrs.
PAL'I.DHHJ, JlR'iAN'l', SANL\S,
Lvoo&TT1 &c. In 2 vols.
J2mo.
Henry Masterton. A
Novel. By tho At;thor of
"Philip AuguAlu:s."' &c. ln 2
vola. 12mo.
Caleb Williams.
l\1ary of Burg-undy. A
A Novel. Dy the t\ uthur of
Novel. Dy the Author of "llcury l\laswrton,'' &..c. In
"Cloudesley." In 2 vole. 2 vols.I2mo.
12
mo. Richc!isu.
Philip Augustus. A
A Tale
Nuvel. Uy the Author of
"U&.rnlcy," &e. In 2 vols.
12mo.
The Club-Book. By
various porular Authors. Jn
2 vols. 12mo.
De Vere. A Novel.
By thll Author of" Tremaine."
In 2 vols. l2rno.
The Smuggler. A
Novel. By the Author of" The
(,'Jiara Tales." In 2 vr\s.
J2mo.
Eugene Aram. By the
Author of "Pelham!' In 2
vols. 12mo.
of FrancP. fly the Author of
"1\lary of Uurgundy," &c. Jn
:2 vols. 12mo.
The Son of a Genius.
Dy i\Irs. HOFLAND. J8mo.
The Young Crusoe.
lly the Same. lSmo.
Tales from American
History. lly the Author of
"American Popular Lessons."
In 3 vols. l timo.
Waldegrave. A Novel.
In 2 vols. J2mo.
Separation. A Novel.
In 2 vols. l2mo.
Stratton Hill. 12mo.
Evelina. A Novel. Dy
Miss D uRNEY. In 2 vol•. The Siamese Twins.
12mo. By the Authnr of "Pelham."
The Spy. A Tale of •
12
'""·
the Neutral Grou..d. By the fhe Doom of Devor-
Aurhor of u Precaution." In 2 gail, and A11chindrnne. Dy
vols. 12mo. ScoTT. l~mo.
Darn.lev. A Novel. Bv Willis's Poems. Rvo.
Work& Publish•·! ny 1/arper 4- Brother~
Pelham; or, the Ad- The Rival~- A Novel.
Ycntures or a Gemletnnn. A lly tho Author of "The Cotl~
Novl'l. Uy UrLWKR. ln 2 gians," &c. In 2 vols. 12mo.
vols. 12mo. S · f p .d In
T he Disowned. A ;o.~~;s,2~0a ,n c.
~~:dj20~~~ '1'0 Samo.
1
"
2
The School of F ashion.
DeYcreux. A Novel. A 1'\ovcl. In 2 volo. 12mo.
lly the ~am<. In 2 vol• J2uoo. Ryhrent De Cruce. A
Jlaul Clifford~ A:'\ovel. Novel. In 2vol!.l2mo.
By tho ~amc. In 2 vots. t2mo. The English at Home.
Chronicles of the Can- '1
1'\ovcl. In
2
vols.
12
'""·
ougaw. A ;\ovd. By Scon. The Last of the Plan-
In 2 vo\s. 12u10. ta~"ln!ts. 1\n Jligtorical Ro--
manl~e. Jn 2 '\'Ol~ . l2mo.
' VaYcrlcy; or, ''l'is
Sixty Ycnr~ Since. A ?\ovcl.
Re\'isrd, corrected, and en-
larged by the Author. In 2
vols. 12ml.).
Tales of my Landlord.
Fo11rth ~eric!'l. C
'ompnRing
t'Mtle Oan;rcron!l amt Hohert
or Pb.fl!~. In 2 '·o(s. l'lmo.
Jacqueline of Holland.
llyT.('. Gtt.,TTA-!'1'1 Esq. In 2
voht. 12mo.
Sketches of Irish Char-
a<'tcr. ny Mrs. lJAt.L. 12mo
Tales of )lilitary Life.
In 2 ''ols. l2mo.
Peace Campaigns of a
f"ornct. A :\ovel. In 2 vats.
12mo.
PriYate Life. A Novel.
In 2 Yols. 12mo,
The Fabe Step and
the Sisters. rn 2 vols. 12mo.
Adventures of a Young·
er ~on. In 2 volt~. 12mo.
The New Forest. A
The Denounce<!. A 1\o,•el. ll)' the Author o(
1'\ov('l Uythc AulhMof"Thc ·• Hramh\etye House." In 2
Smug:glcr." In 2 vats. l2mo. \'Ois. 12mo.
The Oxonians. A Roxobel. By Mrs.
SHI!Rwoon. In '2 vols. 18mo.
i\ovc\. llythe .\uthorof"The
Roue." In 2 vols. 12mo.
The Country Curate.
fly the Author of 11
The Subal-
tern ." In 2 vols. 12mo.
Ueatrice. A Tale,
founded on Fact. By ;\Irs.
lll)rLA~D. In 2 vols. l'2mo.
Tales of the West. In
The Incognito ; or., 2 vols. 12mo.
A Almack's Rev1sited ;
or, llt!rbert Millon. .r\ Novel.
In 2 vols. 12mo.
:'lm~ a11d Pcrcalhlloes.
!\ovel. In 2 vols. 12tuo.
i\Iaxwcll. A Novel.
lVorks Pubhsnc« ny Jlarper <!- Brothers.
VOYAGE OF THE U:\'ITED STATES FRIGATE
POTOMAC, Under the Command of Commodore John
Dowues, during the Circumnavigation of the Globe, in the
years 1831, 1832, 1833, and 1834; Including a particular
Account of the Engagement at Quallah JJattoo, on the E•st
of Sumatra; with all the official Documents relating to the
same. By J. N. REYNOLDS. With Engravings. 8vo.
THE LADY OF THE MAJ.\OR. By Mrs. SHER-
wooD. New Edition. In 4 vok 12mo.
THE LIFE p_l\'D DEATil oF LORD EDWARD
FITZGERALD. Dy THoMAs MooRE. In 2 vols. 12mo.
\Vith a Portrait.
RECORDS OF ;11Y LIFE. Dy the late JoHN Tn-
LOR, Esq. Complete in one volume, 8vo.
TilE Ll\'ES AND EXPLOITS OF DANDITTI
A:::-ID RODDEHS in all Parts of the ·world. By C.
!11.ACFARLAlOO, Esq. 2 vols. l2mo.
THE HISTORY oF THE AMERICAN THEATRE.
Dy "\\'ILLIAM DuN UP. Svo.
THE UFE AND REMAINS oF ED.WARD DANIEL
CLARKE. Dy Rev. DANIEL OTTER, A.M. Svo.
ANNALS OF TRYON COUI\TY; or, the Border
\Varfare of I\cw-York, during the Revolution. By \VM.
W. CAMPBELL. Svo.
THE CONDITION OF GitEECE IN 1827 AND 1828.
Dy Col. J.P. ;11ILLER, of Vermont. \Vith a Map.
li!RS. SIIER"-OOD'S WORKS. Uniform Edition,
with Plates. 12mo.
THE LETTERS or THE BRITISH SPY. Dv W>1.
\VtRT, Esq. To which is prefixed, a Bwgraphical Sketch
of the Author. \Yith a Portrait. 12mo.
Works Publisl!cd ~y Harper •f Brother11.
Three Years in North History of the Amen.
Amerkst. By J. STl' AKT, EslJ. can Theatre. Dy \Vr~~. DUK•
In 2 vats. I2mo. LAl', E.sq. Svo.
J,ieut. E. T. Coke's Domestic l\fanners of
Travel!i in the U1:ltcl1 Stales lhe Americans. fly ~Irs.
and Can::uJa. In 2 \'Ois. 12mo. Taot.Lor~. 8vo. Plates.
Sir Edward Seaward's ObservationsonProfes·
J'arrauve of hi~ Shipwreck,
&c. Etlited by ]\fjf;s JAs&
PonTtcR, }n 3 VO\S. 12mo.
Imprisonment of Sylvio
Pcllico rla Saluno. 121110.
I,etters of the British
~pv. By ',\·~1. \\'11tT, F.Stl·
\Vilh a P.iography of the
Author. 12mo.
Smart's Horace. In 2
\'OI!j. lbmo.
sions, Literature, and Emigra.
tion in the United States and
f'anadn. J~y Rev. l. l<'tDLKR.
12mo.
England and the Eng·
lish. By E. 1.. BuLWER, M.P
In 2 vollil. 12rno.
Annals of Tryon Coun
ty. lly \V. \V. CANPBELL. Svo
French Hevoluti(ln of
JS30.
Li,·es and Yoyage~ of l\liller's Greece. 12mo.
])r$lke, f'a"cndish, and Dam-
pier, incllalin~ an Introductory
View oft he Eurlier Dl~<·ovenes
in tile South t"'ea, al\llthe His-
tory of tile Bucanier~. 1 ~ 1110.
Four Yoyages in the
Chmcse ~ea, Atlantic, Pacific,
l mlian, and .\ntarctic Oct'ans.
Yerplanck's Historical
and l.iterary Discourses. J2mo.
The Percy Anecdotes.
Re~ised Ednion. To which Is
arided a Valuable C'ollection of
American Anec·dotes, original
and selected. Bvo. Portrails,
~~;~~~~~c~r"':\:~ •A~~~~~~~phi~a: Wild Sports of the
Capt. Bv.,J. 1\[nlliUrLr., Juu. \Vf'st. fl~· the Anthorof" Sto-
8Yo. \Vith a Portrait. ~~
1~
10~f \Vatcrloo." In 2 vols
1'\arrative of a \'oyage Latly l\Iorgan's Dra-
~::,:::: ~~~~~~~~ ~::11iu~
0
~~~c~1~~ mafic Sccues. l2nm.
~~~~~~~~~sep~~:ricangc~';;.th 8
H~ '!'ales and Novels. By
Annv J"~ 1\lnRRELL. 12mo. !\IA.RIA EnG&WnRTII. To be
\\'ith a Portrait. romplf'tcd in 9 vols. l2mo.
Owen's Voyages round ~~-~~'v~r~~~~el Engravings tn
::;~c8
j0A2r~.~i~~: f~~~1
10~lallagas- Bulw<'r's NoYels. Print-
Sketches of Turkey I ~1 ~~dv~~~u;~~~~ror~!J~,::i~:
in J,
..JJ and 1832. By Rn "Pelham," "The Oisown~d ,"
Amt·.ril'an. Svo. \Yilh En- u DeH•rcux," "l'aul ('Jifford,"
~:ravm~s. a:1d •• Euvene Arnm."
Works P~<blishcd by llarpc1 <~ Brothers.
Scenes in Our Parish. lndi;tn Traits. By the
12m'l. Author of "Indian Uiogra-
phy." ln 2 vols. lSmo. \Vith
The Hight i\Ioral In- Engravings.
~~~~~i~~."'dH~'~:. 0
~.Li~.~;:~ Caroline Westerley ;
PLANCK. J2mo. ~hi!.he,t,~1~1n~,;:r~~~~~~-from
Xenophon. Translated ::lketches of the Lives
by ~p~;L 'TA!'I and Com·t:K. ln
2 vols. ISmo.
Demosthcnes. By LE-
t ... sn. Portrait. ln 2 vols.
Cresar's Commentaries.
of' Distinguished Females. By
an American Lady. 18mo.
\Vith Engravings.
The Clergyman's Or-
phan; and otllcrTalcs. J8mo.
Uy DI;NcA N. Portrait. 18mo. \Vith Plates.
Cicero. By Du;-;cAX Perils of the Sea; con-
and CorKMAN. In 3 vols I01no. taining n Narrative of the Loss
Rose's Sallust. I8mo. ~~~·e''E~~~~!R~~~- ~~~~dm~g~~~
D \Vith Engraviugs.
Virgil. By l!YDEN, The Ornaments Dis-
&c. lSmo.
Lives of the Apostles
and Early :Marryrs or the
Church. 18mo.
Massinger's Plays. De-
si~ned lhr family use. ln 3
vols. 18mo. l)ortrall.
Ford's Plays. 2 Yols.
The Swiss Familv
Rohinson; or, Adventure~ or"'a
Fa.rher and :'\tother ami l~u r
Sons on a Desert Island. In 2
vol~. 18rno. En:zravings.
Sunday Jt:vcning-s ; or,
en ea~y l rrtrol!uction to the
Reat.lin~ of the Bible. In 3
vols. I:,mo. l':ngravwgs.
The Son of a Genius.
covered. Uy 'lAttY Brons.
JSmo. Engravings.
Uncle Philip's Conver-
satim•s Hhont tile F.vit.lt-nccs
of l'hri~tianity. Engravings
Uncle Philip's Conver
~at ions about the Trees o(
America. Engravlng8.
Life of Wiclif.
C. \V. LE lhs, A.M.
Portrait.
l3y
!Smo
The Consistency of
Revelation with 1lselfand with
Human Deason. lly P. N
SnuTTu.:wuKTH. I8mo.
Luther and Lutheran
Reformation. lly J. Sco·rT.
lu 2 vols. Portraits.
~Ji,~,~~gr!~7;~8'_'"· IBmo. Lebas' Life of Cran-
N I II
. mer. In 2 vols. lSmo.
atura !story ; or, .
Unclo pJ,;Jip's Conversnlion' History of the Re-
Wllli the Chil!ln·n ahout Tools
1
limnE-d Rel~ion in Franco.
nrul Trades arnon:::: the Juft~ rior B\' J.ow .. Ko ~'ho:nr E\ In 2
Ammals. \Vittt Er:gravin~;~. v01H. ISmo. Portralu
Works Published by Harper and Brothers.
Gny Rivers. A T ale
of GeorJZin. fly the Au:hot
ot "Manin Faber," "AUt
Travels and Research- laulis," &c. 2 ·oJs. l2mo.
e• in Catrrsrin. Jly s. K.<Y. History of.\rabin. By
J2mo. \V1th Plate-s. A. CRH HTO~. 2 ''o!s lfl:mo.
Waddington's History
of the Church. A new aud
\'aluuble \\'ork. fh'o.
The Life and Wri- History ofPersia. lly
tinge of R. f'. SA•ms, \Vith
a Porcrall. In 2 vats. Svo.
Essays on the Princi-
}ll6ll or Morality, J.:c. ny J.
) h'Mn•m. \Vith a. Prclftce.
Hy Rev. Prof BL·su. Svo
Discovery &c. of the
~ource of the Mls!'liseippi.-
Hy 11. n. s~nool.cKAFT, L::.:eq.
8•o. \\'ith ~l aps.
Familiar Anecdotes of
S1r '''alter !"i<'ott. By the
Ettrick ~hepherd. 12mo.
L etters of l\Tajor J.
Downin~ to D'"'i~tht. \\'ilh
Engravi11gs. 121110. Genuine.
England and America:
a ( ·omparif:Oil o( the Social
snct Poiltical Stale ofbolh Na-
tiOns. t:)vo.
The Book-keeper's At-
Ia!ll. Ry \V~t F.ow.lltD!4. 4to.
Thin:;:s as they Are:
or, Notes or a Traveller
th rou~::h EOornt'l of rhe ~l u.ldle
and !\onbern Stares. 12miJ.
J. n. FH.AUR, Esq. lSmo.
Legendre's Geometry
snd Trigonometry. New and
improved Edition. lly Prof
l'. lhvn:s. 6vo.
Uncle Philip's Conver-
eations about Virginia. ISmo.
Uncle Philip's History
orNew-York. l8mo.
Pilgrims of the Rhine.
ny the AutllOr ofPclham, &c.
The Frolic~ of Puck.
In 2 vola. 12mo.
Tales and Sketches-
such as Ihey are. Hy \V. L
STo...;~~:, Esq. Jn 2vols. 12mo.
Heiress. 2 v. 12mo.
The Note-Book of a
Counrry Clergym,.n. 18mo..
The Strinl!: of Pearl:~o
Dy G. J•. R. JA~iE~. 12mo.
The Sk"t'tch Book of
FB!!Ihion. Jn 2 vole. 12mo.
Nnllia and Allyssinia. Village Belles. In !
Dy Rev, M. R HFst:LL. ISmo. vols. 12mo.
Life of Peter the Great. The Richelieu Novels.
By J. DARRow, Esq. lBmo. nonnd uniformly in sets ot
12 volumes.
Kentuckian in New- Atlantic Cluh-Book.
York. ln 2 vols. J2mo. -By several distinR"UiRhed
The ·l\Techanic. A Anoerkans. In 2 vols. l2mo,
Tale. ByRev.C. D. T•YLIR. Frank Orby. 2v.12mo.
Works P ubltshed by Harper 4· Brothers.
Memoirs of the Em- 1-listoryofTiritishlndia,
press Josephine. Hy l>r. frorn the moillt Remote Period
M&MES, Portrait. t Smo. to the Prc!'4ent Time. By Ei~ht
Memoirs of Celebrated ~;~~:~/",~:·~r~.ol•.'j~~~:o.J.:n·
Female Sovereigns. Hy. :Mrs.
J..UtlESON. In 2 vols. 18mo.
Journal of an Expedi-
tion to explore the Course ~nd
T ermination of the 1'\J(;EJt;
with a I'arrativc of a Voyage
do\'w'O that Hiver to its Termi-
narion. By R. & J. L.\"oi'Jo:R.
Illustrated with Eugravu1gs
and ~laps. lu 2 vols. 18mo.
Inquiries concerning
tlie lnt ~llccmai]Jowcrs and the
Inve~tigation of Truth. Hy .l.
A BERCR0~1UI..:, M.U. F.ll.S.
lSmo. \\'ith (~ucstious.
The Philosophy of the
Moral Feelings. lly the Same.
I ~mo.
Lives of Celobrated
Travellers. Dy J. A. ST. Jou:-o.
In 3 vols H3mo.
i.ife of Frederic the
Seel)nd. Dy L oRD DovER.
Portrait. In 2 vols. lSmo.
Sketches from Vene-
tian History.
vols. 18mo.
Plates. In 2
Indian Biography; or,
an Historical Account of thOl"C
Individuals \\"liD I!ave been l>ls-
tin guished among the l\orth
American !\ativcs as Orators,
'Varrior!'l, Sr.a.lesmcn, auf~ other
Remarkable Chareetcrs. By
B. n. 'l'UATCH~:R , Esq. \Vith
Plate.s. In 2 vols. J~mo.
Travels and Research-
e!'~Ofllaron JJumboldt. By \V.
1\hr olLLI\' ttA Y. Engravings.
18mo.
Letters of Euler on
Dtftercnt Suhjf'cls in Natural
J)hilo~ophy. \Vith Nows and
a Life of Euler. Uy DAVID
lJHt,;\\'STEK, LL.D. \\'ith Ad.·
diti<mal 1\'otcs, b) J. f:ttts:coM,
LL.IJ. \Viti! Engravings. In
2 vols. l&mo.
A Popular Guide to the
Obscrv1Hion of i\ulurc. By IL
l\lt' tJJil:, Esq. \Vith Engra·
vings. lomo.
On the Improvement of
Society hy the General Di1fu
sian of Kuowlcclge. lly 1'
JJu K, LL.D. 1t:l!uo.
The History of Charle-
magne. lly G. P. R. Jun:s:,
Esq. \Vith a Portrait. IBrno.
Life of Oliver Crom·
well. liythcRcv. ~I. Rf'&$tLr.
LL.D. Portrait. In 2 vall
18mo.
Historical View of the
Progress of Di~cuve ry on the
more i\·ortltcrn C.:oa~ts of North
America. Uy P. F. TYTI.ieR,
Esq., and Prof. \\'11.~o.,.. l\tap
and. Engraving~. lSmo.
l\Iontgomery's Lectures
on lloelry and General Litora..
ture. lbmo.
Letters
Magic.
J,L.D.
!Bmo.
on Natural
IJy D. DR•W >T&R, Sketches and Eccen.
With Engravings. tricitics of Col. David Crockett
12mo.
History oflroland. By The Life of Baron
'\V. C. T4'YL•lll, Et>cl· 2 volli. Cuvi~r. lly Mrs. Ls:.1. 12mo,
