{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__a_member___the_philosophy_of_phrenology_simplified.pdf","mytitle":"The Philosophy Of Phrenology Simplified","mylang":"de"}
THE
PHILOSOPHY
or
PHRENOLOGY
SIMPLIFIED.
BY A MEMBER OF THE ’
PHRENOLOGICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETIES OK
GLASGOW; &c. &c.
GLASGOW:
W. R. M'PHUN, 86, TKONGATE;
N. H. COTES, 139, CHEAPSIDE, LONDON.
MDCCCXXXVI.
2 1526 ?
UBRASW
)
OUs^ow I—Primed at the University Press, by E. Kac
r
I
TO
THE MEMORY OF
GALL
•
*
.
In the following pages the writer has confined himself
more to the principles than to the details of Phrenology,
and he has aimed at simplicity and perspicuity of style
rather than elegance of diction. Every student of
Phrenology easily gets acquainted with facts relating
to the situation, form, and even some of the uses of
the organs ; but the philosophic Phrenologist looks
also to principles, for without this kind of knowledge
his views must be empirical, and destitute of that com-
prehensive character which leads to useful practical
results. Facts he knows are only the insulated materials
of which a science is built up, while principles are
the uniting media that impart solidity and durability to
the whole structure.
Phrenology is calculated to produce most important
effects upon society; and the more widely a knowledge
_
vt PREFACE.
is diffused of the principles of Phrenological science,
the sooner will these effects be realized.
Should this little work tend to produce a spirit of
inquiry into the subject of which it treats, the object
for which it is published will be effected.
Va
3
CONTENTS".
INTRODUCTION.
definition, I'
Causes of the Opposition to Phrenology, ..... 1
Many important Discoveries have met with Opposition, . 2
Previous to the Discovery of Phrenology most discordant Opi-
nions entertained regarding the corporeal Seat of the Mind, 3
History of the Discovery of Phrenology, .... 3
Gall, Spurzheim, ......... o
Succeeding Phrenologists. ....... 7
CHAPTER I.
The Brain the Organ of the Mind, ...... g
Some popular Objections to Phrenology answered, ... 16
CHAPTER II.
The Brain not a single Organ proved, ..... 23
The Mind displays different mental Powers, .... 24
Diversity of Form in the Brains of different Individuals, . 25
Diversity of Talents, 26
Partial Idiocy, and partial Insanity, ...... 29
Dreaming,
30
Anatomy in Harmony with Fhrenology. ..... 31
X CONTENTS.
CHAPTER III.
Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous System favourable to
Phrenology,
Zoophytes,
gg
Molluscous Animals,
Articulated Animals gg
Fishes,
41
Reptiles
Birds
Quadrupeds, . 4g
Facial angle of Camper, _______
Argument in Favour of Phrenology from Camper’s Principles, 43
Argument from the Process of Development of the Brain. - 44
CHAPTER IV.
Nervous System of Man 4(3
Nerves, _________ 47
Ganglia
Plexuses, 43
Spinal Marrow or Cord, ........ 52
Medulla Oblongata, ......... 55
Cerebellum, .......... 56
Cerebrum. ........... 58
CHAPTER V.
Phrenological Nomenclature, ....... 63
Fundamental Powers, ... ..... 65
The Essence of the Mind an improper Subject of Investigation, 69
Short Notification of the Fundamental Functions of the Phre-
nological Organs, and Abuses to which some of them are
liable, 73
Size of the Organs, ......... 89
Activity of the Organs, ........ 98
Temperament, 91
Combination of the Organs, ....... 95
Materialism. .......... 97
CHAPTER VI.
On Insanity, .......... 98
Proximate Cause of Insanity corporeal, 99
Corporeal Agents produce Insanity, ...... 103
Insanity hereditary, 100
Different Kinds of Insanity, ....... 100
Principle* upon which the Treatment of Insanity is founded, - 101
CONTENTS. xi
CHAPTER VII.
On the Principles of Education, ......
Principle. I Education does not confer new powers either
mental or corporeal, but merely improves
those already implanted by nature,
II. All the powers of the mind cannot be improved
to an equal degree in any individual, .
III. The improvement of any one power of the mind
does not affect the strength or energy of any
of the other mental powers, ...
IV. The intellectual powers which are naturally
strongest in any individual should be culti-
vated to a greater degree than those that are
weak,
V. Education to be effective must be practical.
Advantages of Phrenology,
Practical Examination of the Head
Explanation of the Plates,
108
108
117
118
11S>
124
13(5
13£>
111
'
DESCRIPTION OF FRONTISPIECE.
Our coloured engraving shows the mapping,
as it were, of
the various divisions of the skull, marked and numbered in
the present state of the science of Phrenology.
We have only given a front view, and, therefore, the
animal compartment cannot be seen, which occupies the
base of the brain, reaching, in the occipital region, about
half way towards the top of the head, and at the sides,
rising a little above the top of the ears. It does not so
extend to the front of the brain, as to constitute any portion
of the forehead.
Directly over the animal is placed the moral compart-
ment, occupying the entire top or roof of the brain, and
upper parts of its sides. It is shaded with purple.
The knowing compartment occupies the base of the brain
in front, from side to side, and reaches to about the middle
of the forehead or a little higher. It is shaded in the
engraving with blue.
The reflecting lies immediately over the knowing com-
partment, forming the more elevated portion of the head.
The spaces in the engraviug are white.
In the other engravings of the smaller mapped heads, the
situation of all the organs is indicated according to the fol-
lowing table.
TABLE OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL
ORGANS.
AFFECTIVE.
J. Propensities.
1. Amativeness.
2. Philoprogenitiveness.
3. Inhabitiveness.
4. Adhesiveness.
5. Combativeness.
6. Destructiveness.
j- Alimentiveness.
7. Secretiveness.
8. Acquisitiveness.
9. Constructiveness.
II. Sentiments.
10. Self-Esteem.
11. Love of Approbation.
12. Cautiousness.
13. Benevolence.
14. Veneration.
15. Firmness.
16. Conscientiousness.
17. Hope.
18. Wonder.
19. Ideality.
20. Wit or Mirthfulness.
21. Imitation.
INTELLECTUAL.
I. Perceptive.
22. Individuality.
23. Form.
24. Size.
25. Weight.
26. Colouring.
27. Locality.
28. Number.
29. Order.
30. Eventuality.
31. Time.
32. Tune.
33. Language.
II. Reflective.
34. Comparison.
35. Causality.
f
EXPLANATION
OF THE
PLATE OF THE BRAIN.
In the preparation from which fig. 1st is taken, the right
half of the skull is removed, and a side view is conse-
quently obtained of the parts that lie within the cranium.
Occupying the greatest part of the skull, we observe the
cerebrum A, A, A, (presenting numerous convolutions).
These convolutions lie immediately under the thin mem-
branes that line the cavity of the skull. The form, size,
and direction of the convolutions, seem to vary in different
portions of the mass, and form important parts of the
phrenological organs. These organs, it must be remarked,
are not confined to the convolutions, but extend from the
medulla oblongata C, or top of the spinal marrow, to the
convolutions which they also include.
Below, and at the back of the cerebrum, we find the
cerebellum, or little brain B, which differs remarkably in
structure from the cerebrum. Instead of the convoluted,
which appertains to the cerebrum, it presents a laminated
structure ;
the lamina;, or plates, so arranged that their
margins are turned to the circumference of the mass.
In fig. 2d, the base, or lower surface of the brain, is repre-
sented, and besides the nerves which are there found attached,
a view is obtained of the three lobes of the cerebrum. A,
the anterior lobe ;
B, the middle lobe ; C, the posterior lobe.
In this inverted state of the brain, the cerebellum D, covers
nearly altogether the posterior lobes, but by referring to fig.
1st, the true position of these parts will be comprehended.
E refers to the medulla oblongata, or the top of the spinal
marrow.
I1
rom fig. 1st, a view may be obtained of the manner in
which the brain fills the skull. D, D, D, represents the
thickness of the skull as seen after a longitudinal section
has been made from the nose to the hind head. It will be
observed, that the cerebral mass fills completely the cavity
of the skull, and the skull, like the rind of an orange, or the
shell ot an egg, indicates, with great accuracy, the i'oim and
size of the contained materials.
'
3 i.t TO
. ::v •: ; 'i / •>
. I' .
' ' '
. ..
•• - .
'•
'
*
vw r ,f '
I < 1.
. • •
\ 1 *
...
'
'
.V I j
Si.
I
. r- vl If*- <*
.
1 *;'•
' - 1 i
•'
' •
.
... ....>•
..... .
• r " • - '
‘ •'
. .
’ *•*» • - • - •
....
THE
PHILOSOPHY
i
OF
PHRENOLOGY SIMPLIFIED.
INTRODUCTION.
Definition—Causes of the Opposition to Phrenology.—Many important
Discoveries have met with Opposition.—Previous to the Discovery of
Phrenology most discordant Opinions entertained regarding the cor-
poreal Seat of the Mind.—History of the Discovery of Phrenology.—
Gall, Spurzheim.—Succeeding Phrenologists.
Phrenology is the science that treats not only of the
mental powers, but also of the relationship which exists
between these powers and certain corporeal conditions.
In this last particular, chiefly, it differs from all other
systems of mental philosophy, and, at the same time,
pre-eminently surpasses them all. Many of our theories
of the mind may be characterized as philosophical
dreams, and, like dreams, are remarkable for their
incoherency and darkness ; while Phrenology has the
freshness of reality stamped on its forehead, and, un-
like the older theories, can be rendered subservient in
many ways to the improvement of the human race.
It is to be regretted that many who oppose Phre-
nology do so without due consideration. Many appa-
B
2 INTRODUCTION.
rently object to it because it runs counter to their
preconceived notions, of the correctness of which they
have never once doubted : many oppose it because
the criterion of mental capacity which it establishes
is not sufficiently flattering to themselves : many raise
their voices against it because the mass of mankind,
who know nothing of it whatever, do not believe in it
and many laugh at it because it is more eas}' to laugh
than to reason. With these causes in full operation, it
is a matter of surprise not that Phrenology has made
so little progress, but that it has made so much. But
it must succeed. It is a science based on immutable
truth, and has, therefore, the seeds of immortality
in itself.
It is a curious and interesting fact, that almost every
important discovery in science and philosophy has met
with neglect or strong opposition. Pythagoras was
banished from Athens, and Anaxagoras imprisoned for
promulgating novel doctrines. Was not Democrates
denounced as insane, for attempting to discover the
cause of madness by dissections ? Was not Socrates,
for demonstrating the unity of the Deity, compelled to
drink of the poisonous cup? and were not many who
excelled in the physical sciences, during the fourteenth
century, burned as sorcerers ? The truth or falsehood
of any doctrine must be estimated only from its intrinsic
qualities, and not from the kind of public reception it
may have at first obtained. The doctrine of the earth’s
motion round the sun, is now generally assented to, yet
Gallileo, the author of this doctrine, was cast into prison,
and the doctrine opposed by the most enlightened and
influential of the times. The discovery of the circulation
INTRODUCTION. 8
of the blood too, a discovery which did more for the ad-
vancement of medical science, and consequently, for the
happiness of the human race, than any other in ancient
or modern times, was maliciously opposed, and Harvey,
the discoverer, stigmatized as an enemy to morality
and religion. With these examples before us, we can-
not be surprised that Phrenology should have had its
own share of abuse ;
it has been opposed in every
possible manner. The learned as well as the ignorant
have united in deriding it. Argument and wit have
been conjoined to decry its pretensions, and even
malicious and wicked insinuations of its dangerous ten-
dencies have not been neglected to secure its overthrow
yet it has triumphed over every effort to put it down,
and the more it is opposed, the more assuredly will it
triumph—error only is afraid of the light—truth never
shuns discussion nor loses by investigation ;
and the
more carefully Phrenology is examined, the more ar-
dently it will be embraced, and the importance of its
doctrines recognised and acknowledged.
Previous to the discovery of Phrenology, not only
were the most discordant opinions entertained by
philosophers regarding the powers of the mind, but
what may appear still more extraordinary, unanimity
did not prevail regarding the corporeal seat of the men-
tal operations: some indeed believed the mind to reside
in the brain,* but others supposed its habitation to be
* Among these we may make honourable mention of Hippocrates,
who says, that “ From the brain only proceed pleasure, and joy, and
laughter, and sport, as well as griefs, anxieties, sorrows, and weeping.
By it we are wise, and understand, and see, and hear, and appreciate.
By it we distinguish what is pleasantiand what is disagreeable, and by
4 INTRODUCTION.
in various less noble parts of the body. Drelincourt
and his followers, for example, allocated the mind in
the cerebellum ; Descartes and his disciples in the
pineal gland ;
Aristotle in the heart ; Buffon in the
diaphragm ; Van Helmont in the stomach. Indeed
there is scarcely a vital organ in the whole body which
has not been viewed as the exclusive resting place of
the mind. These opinions have fled like phantoms
before the light of day. Phrenology has had the
merit of exposing their absurdities. Truth is always
valuable for its own sake, and the establishment of the
fundamental truth in Phrenology, that all mental mani-
festation takes place through the brain, is calculated to
lead to conclusions of unspeakable importance to the
human race.
It is scarcely forty years since the doctrines of phreno-
logy were first publicly promulgated, yet notwithstand-
ing the extraordinary opposition it has had to contend
with, it has made its way into almost every part of the
civilized world. It is known even in Asia. In Ame-
rica many learned men have written in its behalf. In
different parts of Europe many Phrenological Societies
have been formed ; and in this country do we not find
it taught as a branch of liberal education in many of
our seminaries of learning ? do we not find men, known
both to science and to literature, pressing forward in its
it the same things do not please us under all circumstances. By it we
are insane and delirious, experience terrors and fears, partly by night
and partly by day ;
do not recognise those who are with us ;
lose our
habits, and forget our experience. All this we suffer from the brain if
it is not healthy ;
wherefore, I say, that the brain is the messenger and
interpreter of intelligence and wisdom.”—Dc Morbo Sacro.
INTRODUCTION. 5
support, and the most able and respectable medical
and literary periodical publications of the day ably
advocating its cause, and elucidating its principles ? The
discovery of Phrenology is a new era in the history of
the human mind. To Dr. Gall mankind is indebted
for the discovery ; and the discovery, it must be re-
marked, was purely the result of observation, not of
reasoning. Dr. Gall was born at Tiefenbrun in Suabia,
on 9th March, 1757. Even when a boy he was noted
for quick perception and talent of observation. He
remarked when at school, and afterwards w'hen he had
entered the University, that all his class fellows who
had a strong verbal memory had prominent eyes, and
was inclined to suspect that these two circumstances
held an important relationship. Had he proceeded no
farther in his investigations, this observation of his
would have been soon forgotten ; but he fortunately
conceived the idea, that if a memory for words can
have any external sign, the same might be the case
with the other intellectual powers. He looked for
these signs in the head where they had not previously
been suspected to exist, and in process of time he was
convinced that he had found external characters which
indicated talents for painting, for music, for mechanical
arts, and for remembering places. He became after-
wards acquainted with some individuals who were
remarkable for the energy and particular determination
of character, and he found particular parts of their
heads to be very largely developed. From such cases
he was led to look for signs of the moral sentiments in
the head, and the more he examined, he found the
correctness of this general position unfolding itself.
b 2
6 INTRODUCTION.
He abandoned the theories of philosophers, from whose
vague speculations regarding the powers of the mind
he could gain no assistance, and devoted himself ex-
clusively to the observation of nature. That he might
extend his sphere of observation, he frecpiently visited
schools and colleges, got admission into prisons, houses
of correction, and hospitals for the treatment of the
insane, and procured introductions to private indi-
viduals conspicuous for peculiarity of talent. The
heads of all he carefully examined ; and after a series
of observations, arrived at the belief that he had dis-
covered the particular conformations of head, which
indicated certain dispositions and intellectual powT
ers.
Dr. Gall has been accused of first framing a theory,
and then attempting to mould nature to his specula-
tions ; but no accusation can be more unfounded. The
first phrenological idea that entered the mind of Gall
was the offspring of observation, and every subsequent
discovery ijvhich he made was the result of numerous
observations and cautious inductions. Phrenology is
not a theory that was manufactured in the closet, and
brought to the light of day in a finished state. No
it first appeared like so many detached and isolated
facts ; and after the facts were satisfactorily established,
it wr
as wrought into an interesting system of philo-
sophy.
In the year 1806, Dr. Spurzheim became the assis-
tant and associate of Dr. Gall, and to him Phrenology
is not only indebted for an extension of its boundaries,
but in some measure, also, for the systematic and phi-
losophical aspect which it at present displays. With
INTRODUCTION. 7
Dr. Spurzheim, the writer of these pages had the honour
of being personally acquainted ;
and the more he had an
opportunity of knowing him, the more he was convinced
of the philosophic character of his mind. Dr. Spurzheim
had obviously investigated human nature with a most
observant and critical eye, and few individuals could
bring into the investigation more sagacity or in-
tellectual profundity ; his manners besides were sim-
ple and unaffected, and candour and love of truth his
predominating characteristics. To him Phrenology is
indebted for much of the progress it has made in this
country. With inextinguishable zeal and ceaseless
industry, he travelled over the greater part of Europe,
explaining and inculcating the new doctrines, and leav-
ing every where behind him indubitable evidences of
the triumph of truth. He may be viewed as the father
and apostle of the new philosophy in Britain ;
for had
he not combated personally and so successfully as he
did, the opposition which Phrenology first experienced,
phrenological truth might have been left to make its
own way ;
and unless truth is known it can neither be
believed nor turned to any practical advantage.
After sojourning for some years in this country, he
repaired to America, where he terminated a life de-
voted to Phrenology.
Great though the merits of Spurzheim be, we cannot
agree with those who would attempt to raise him to an
equality with Gall. The glory of the discovery is due
to Gall alone ;
and all the merits of Dr. Spurzheim,
transcendent though they be, are in comparison with
the discovery, only of secondary importance. Gall
8 INTRODUCTION.
was the great luminary from which all the succeeding
phrenologists have derived all their lustre.*
In discussing this subject we shall, First, attempt to
prove that the brain is the material organ of the mind.
Secondly, that the brain is not a single organ, but a
congeries of organs, through which the mind displays
a plurality of powers. Thirdly, shall shortly notice the
function of each organ, and the abuses to which it may
give rise ;
and, Fourthly, point out the practical benefits
to which a knowledge of Phrenology will conduce.
* Although this last observation is literally true, yet it must be stated
that Phrenology has been much advanced by the observations and la-
bours of other philosophers. Among these, Mr. Combe stands pre-
eminent ;
and although he has neither the genius of Gall, nor the pro-
fundity of Spurzheim, he has done more than either in extending and
popularizing the science. Like Socrates, he has had the merit of draw-
ing philosophy from the clouds, and adapting it to the ordinary affairs
of human life.
9 THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND.
CHAPTER I.
Hie Brain the Organ of the Mind,—Some popular Objections to Phre-
nology answered.
It is the opinion of some philosophers, that the
mental powers are not dependent upon the body.
But if there is a shadow of truth in such an opinion,
Phrenology must fall to the ground. But, indepen-
dently of the fact that mental manifestation is never
evinced without corporeal parts, do we not uniformly
find the mental powers increase and strengthen with
the growth and energy of the body, and with the
decay of the corporeal system, dwindle and disappear.
No man can unbiasedly contemplate the dawning of
intellect in the child, the full expansion of the in-
tellectual powers in middle age, and the dotage and
mental imbecility which characterize the advanced
periods of life, without arriving directly at the conclu-
sion, that the peculiarity of mental condition is depen-
dent on the peculiarity of the corporeal state. But is
it the whole body or a part of it that is so intimately
connected with mind ? To such a question we are
enabled to give a decided and satisfactory answer. The
human body consists of an assemblage of organs, each
of which has its separate and determinate function.
Besides the organs which we consider necessary for
10 THE BRAIN THE
the manifestation of the mental powers, there are others
which experiment and observation prove to have been
formed for very different purposes. We have organs
of digestion, absorption, circulation of the blood, respira-
tion, secretion, motion, sensation, voice, and reproduc-
tion. It would be obviously absurd to suppose that
any of these organs is directly concerned in the mani-
festation of the mind, and this conclusion is strengthened
by the following considerations :
1 st. These organs have their ascertained functions,
which have no relationship to the phenomena of mind.
2dly. Many of these organs may be removed from
the body without impairing the mental faculties ;
and,
3dly. Those which cannot be removed without
destroying life are found existing in the fullest develop-
ment in many of the inferior animals whose mental
capacities are of the lowest order.
Phrenologists believe that the Brain is the material
organ of the mind ;
and they believe this because they
think the fact is unquestionable, or may be proved as
satisfactorily as any other doctrine in physiology.
Some opponents of Phrenology have, however, ques-
tioned the truth of the position, and asserted that we
have equal reason for believing the other vital organs
to be organs of the mind, as we have for arriving at
that conclusion regarding the brain.* We cannot think,
they say, without the lungs or heart any more than
without the brain, ergo, the heart and lungs are mental
organs as well as the other. Such a conclusion, if not
illogical, is at least inconsistent with the known opera-
* Edinburgh Review, No. 88.
OKGAN OF THE MIND. 11
tions of the animal economy. By the same kind ol
argument we may prove the heart to be a respiratory
organ, for by removing it from a living animal, respira-
tion instantly ceases ;
nay, by similar logic we may
prove that all the vital organs are united in performing
one function—indeed any function that may be conde-
scended upon, for by destroying one vital organ all the
others immediately cease to act. The man, however, who
has studied the laws of the animal economy knows that
though all these organs are linked together and con-
spire to effect one great end, the continuance of life, he
also knows that each organ serves a determinate pur-
pose in the living system, for which purpose it was
formed and for no other. The lungs, he knows, are a
respiratory and the stomach a digestive organ. He
knows also they are as necessary for our existence as
the air we inhale and the food we digest, but he would
no more ascribe intelligence to these organs than he
would ascribe intellectuality to the air or food. But
it is far different with regard to the brain. Throughout
the whole of nature, so far as our observation reaches,
and in philosophical argument we dare not proceed
farther, mind and brain are never found disunited.
Wherever we find brain there also we find mind, and
in proportion to the development of the brain, do we
find a corresponding development of intellectual power.
There are no exceptions to this general law. What
are we to think, then, of those cases adduced by the
opponents of Phrenology, in which the brain is said to
have been lost without affecting I he intellectual powers.
They are just as worthy of credit as the exploits of the
renowned Baron Munchausen, or the picturescpie ima-
12 THE BRAIN THE
ginings of the “Arabian Nights.” It is to me surpris-
ing that any man can be found who is so credulous as
to believe them.
«<
The times have been
That when the brains were out the man would die.
And there an end : but now they rise again
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns
And push us from our stools : This is more strange
Than such a murder is.”
Shakspeare insinuates that it is a strange matter
for a man to live without brains, and Shakspeare is
undoubtedly right ; but the opponents of Phrenology
in contempt of this high authority, maintain that nothing
is more common. We have been somewhat puzzled to
account for the existence of such an opinion, and after
much cogitation, have come to the conclusion that
it is rather attributable to error of judgment in the
opponents of Phrenology, than incorrect observation.
Observing, probably, with how' small a quantum of brains
they themselves have not only contrived to live,
but to live comfortably, they have drawn the con-
clusion that they could live equally well without
brains altogether ; and although some may be ready
to acquiesce in the justness of such reasoning, still,
viewing the subject phrenologieally, their argument is
obviously as unsubstantial as the vacuity of their brain-
less crania. But to return to the subject more imme-
diately before us, it is only necessary to observe that
the cases alluded to are unworthy of credit ; they have
not even the semblance of genuineness, and not a
single medical man of the present day would be so
foolish as to confide in them.
ORGAN OF THE MIND. 13
That certain parts of the brain have been lost, and
the person afterwards recover, with the use of his
intellectual faculties, cannot be doubted ; but this can
be satisfactorily accounted for without affecting the
fundamental principles of Phrenology. The brain is
double, and alt the organs of which it is composed are
arranged in pairs, like the organs of sensation. We
may lose an eye, but vision still remains, or an ear with-
out hearing being destroyed ; so likewise, although an
organ of the brain be injured, or even lost, if its fellow
of the opposite side remain unaffected, the function of
the organ must necessarily remain. But is there any
case on record on which both organs have been
destroyed, and the functions attributed by Phreno-
logists to the parts, afterwards continue ? There is
not one.*
That the mind is directly connected with the brain,
we indisputably prove from the effects of cerebral
diseases, and injuries of the brain upon the intellec-
* “ I will not’insult the understanding of my readers,” says Dr.
Elliotson, “ by showing that we have no authentic instance of the real
absence of brain in the cranium of a being possessed of a mind. In
most cases where the mind is said to have been vigorous, when the
state of the body at large, or of the brain alone, rendered the perfect per-
formance of the cerebral functions improbable in the eyes of the relators,
I believe the mental power has been greatly overrated ;
that because the
individual merely talked collectedly, he wa3 imagined sufficient for the
exertions of his best health.
“The part of the brain affected by disease, may have been one
whose function is not intellectual, but merely relating to the feelings,
or may have related to mental faculties whose state was not noticed by
the narrators. In truth, the narrators give us no satisfactory account
of the feelings and intellectual powers of the patient, nor of the exact
portions of the brain affected ;
nor could they, being unacquainted with
Phrenology ;
and they also forget that the cerebral organs are double.”
—Human Physiology, bth Edition, p. 37.
C
14 THE BRAIN THE
tual powers. Inflammation of the brain is uniformly
attended with delirium. So long as the inflamma-
tion is in an acute state the delirium continues, and
when it terminates in an effusion of serum or pus,
which exerts a deleterious pressure upon the brain,
the intellect is overpowered and ultimately annihilated.
However striking such facts may be, we have still
more convincing illustrations from the effects of de-
pressed portions of the skull. If a portion of the
cranium is beat down upon the brain, that instant
sensibility and consciousness cease, and as soon as
the brain is freed of this incumbrance its functions are
restored, sensibility and consciousness return. Cases of
this kind have fallen under the observation of almost
every surgeon, but probably the most remarkable case on
record is that related by Sir Astley Cooper. A sailor,
he tells us, fell from the yard-arm of one of his majesty’s
ships as she was about to sail from the Mediterranean
to Gibraltar. The poor fellow was taken up in a state
of total insensibility. During his passage to Gibraltar,
he evinced no symptom of sensibility farther than mov-
ing occasionally his finger, or projecting the point of his
tongue from his mouth. In this log-like state he was
regularly fed and freed of his involuntary discharges
till he arrived at Gibraltar. There he remained for a
month in the same torpid state under varied plans of
medical treatment. In process of time he returned
with the ship to England, and thirteen months from
the accident was carried in the same state of absolute
insensibility into Deptford. From Deptford he was
carried into St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, and placed
under the care of Mr. Cline. This eminent surgeon
ORGAN OR THE MIND. 15
found a portion of skull depressed, to which he
attributed all the symptoms. He raised it up, and
mark the effects of the operation. The bone was no
sooner elevated than the patient sat up, gazed around
him, and in a short time began to speak. He sup-
posed he was just ready to sail for Gibraltar, and the
thirteen months which elapsed between the accident and
the performance of the operation, was a blank in his
mental history which appeared to him only an instant of
time. Will apiece of bone pressing upon any other organ
produce corresponding effects upon the mind ? The ribs
have been thrust in upon the lungs and heart, and the
bowels have protruded from their cavity, and been
subjected to great degrees of violence, while the mind
unaffected within its citadel, has beheld with calmness
and serenity the ravages of the outward storm ; but
let the brain be seriously affected either by internal
or external causes, let the brain be the seat of the
commotion, and the mind cannot remain undisturbed,
it is hurried along with the tempest—maddened it may
be into fury, or laid prostrate and overwhelmed.
From these and numerous other facts of a similar
kind which can be adduced, it appears to be satisfac-
torily established that the brain is the organ of the
mind ; and if this cannot be denied, Phrenology has
at least some foundation in nature. The man who
admits that the brain is the organ of mind, is virtually
a Phrenologist ; for he cannot stop here, he must go
farther and admit, that the state or condition of the
brain must influence the mental powers. We admit
the correctness of the general principle, that the state
or condition of an organ has necessarily an effect upon
16 POPULAR OBJECTIONS TO
the function of that organ, and we dare not in logical
correctness refuse our assent to the principle when
applied to the brain. The eye is the organ of vision,
and we unhesitatingly admit that a well formed and
sound eye are indispensable to perfect vision. Muscles
are organs of motion, and we never doubt for a
moment that different degrees of muscular develop-
ment are concomitant with different degrees of muscu-
lar power. If the state or condition of an organ then
affects the functions of that organ, it follows necessa-
rily that the development and other conditions of the
brain will affect the mental manifestation.
There are many physiologists who admit, in a general
way, that the brain is the organ of the mind, but who
object to the phrenological view of the subject that the
brain is a congeries of organs, through which a plurality
of mental powers are manifested. If the mind, how-
ever, manifests a plurality of mental powers, and if the
brain be that part of the body through which these
powers are displayed, it is a priori probable that the
brain is not a single organ. It would be far more con-
sistent for the opponents of Phrenology to deny any
connexion between mind and brain, than to admit that I
connexion and yet consider the brain as a single organ,
capable ofmanifesting a diversity ofmental powers. What
would we think of the man who would run into the absur- I
dity of attributing all our sensations to the operation of I
one external organ of sensation, yet are not the various i
feelings and powers of the mind as different from each 1 1
other as seeing, and hearing, taste, smell, and touch ? I
We are conscious that our impressions from external I
objects are different in kind, and observation has proved I
PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 17
that we have a corresponding diversity of external
organs ; we are also conscious that the mind manifests
a plurality of powers ; is it not therefore probable that
nature has allotted for the manifestation of these powers
a corresponding diversity of cerebral organs ?
But have we as much reason to believe in the exis-
tence of the mental organs as in those of the external
senses ? To this question I would answer that the
evidences on which the existence of both kinds of
organs rests, are precisely of the same character. The
organs of sensation no doubt obtrude themselves more
upon our observation than the other. From their
external situation, insulated state, and peculiarity of
structure, they cannot be overlooked or confounded,
but how do we determine that they are organs of
sensation? By observation only. Now, it must be
remembered, that by the same means we can discover
the organs of the brain.
It has been said that if the organs of the brain exist,
the mind must be conscious of their existence, and that
anatomical investigation would set the matter at rest
and it has been still farther remarked, since the mind is
not conscious of their existence, and since anatomical
investigation leaves the matter still in doubt, such
organs can have no existence save in the imagination of
the phrenologist. The argument is deserving of con-
sideration ; but it is more plausible than solid. That
the mind has no consciousness of acting through the
instrumentality of cerebral organs, we admit ; but the
conclusion cannot be legitimately drawn from such
premises that the organs do not therefore exist, for the
mind is not conscious of the existence of any corporeal
c 2
POPULAR OBJECTIONS TO
18
'
organ which it uses. That we know that the mind
uses such organs is incontestable, but knowledge and
consciousness are very different things, though fre-
quently confounded. Knowledge is something which
the mind acquires by experience, and consciousness the
capability which the mind possesses of attending to its
own perceptions. Now we know that we see with the
eye, because we have acquired this knowledge by a
multitude of observations ; but in the early periods of
life, before these experiments have been made, we see,
and hear, and receive impressions from the external
objects that surround us, without our knowing that the
impressions are received through an external organ at
all. And even in the most educated and expanded
state of the mind, though the mind may reason on the
nature of the impression, the mind is no more conscious
that the impression is made on an external organ, than
it is at the moment of birth. In seeing, for example,
the impression is made on the optic nerve, but how few
know of the existence even of that nerve. All sensa-
tions are produced through the medium of the nerves,
but do we all know the situation even of the nerves,
and if we cannot indicate the locality even of such
organs, it is absurd to say that the mind is conscious of
their operations. If this reasoning can apply to the
external senses, the existence of which is so palpable,
can we admit that a non-consciousness of the operation
of the internal organs is a proof of their non-existence?*
* At the same time we have an obscure internal feeling that almost
amounts to consciousness, that the mental operations are carried on in
the head. We never suppose for a moment that we think with the
stomach or foot ;
when we wish to recall any thing to memory we
instinctively apply o,ur hand, not to the chest or abdomen, but to the
PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 19
But if these organs exist, have we not only to remove
the osseous and membranous envelopes which nature
has thrown around them, and they would at once be
apparent ? But on exposing the brain, we meet only,
it is said, with a number of cerebral convolutions, not
differing much either in size or external conformation,
and not arranged into different pieces with nice insulat-
ing lines of circumvallation, as we find portrayed on the
phrenological crania, and not finding the cerebral parts
arranged, as they in their wisdom expected, the oppo-
nents of phrenology have come to the conclusion that
whatever these convolutions may be, they are clearly not
organs of the mind. But may not this conclusion be too
hastily drawn ? Were we to reason in the same way
regarding many other parts of the body, we would
unquestionably fall into error. Nerves of sensation and
motion resemble each other more than any two convo-
lutions of the brain ;
yet motion and sensation are
functions as different as any two powers of the mind.
These nerves are not only similar in form and structure,
but they are also bound together and surrounded by a
common sheath or envelope. What would we think
of that physiologist who would contend, from these
circumstances, that nerves are all of one kind? We
would say that he has yet to learn the rudiments of
physiology, and that he has promulgated a doctrine
which experiment and observation have confuted.
head. The language in common use to designate mental conditions
arises from this cause. We say that a stupid fellow is a block/iearf, a
numskull, has no brains, is addleprrfcrf. &c. We say also that a clever
person is long-headad, strong-headed, lias a good head, has some brains ;
that a silly volatile being is ligh Uheaded ; and a madman is wrong in
the head, or not right in the upper storey.
20 POPULAR OBJECTIONS TO
Erroneous though the principle be which would lead to
such conclusion, yet the opponents of Phrenology have
all along been acting upon it, when contending against
the plurality of the cerebral organs. They have pro-
ceeded upon the principle that similarity of structure
indicates identity of function, but the unsoundness of
the principle is triumphantly displayed by a reference
merely to the nerves of motion and sensation.
Again, the intestinal canal is a continuous, musculo-
membranous tube, extending from the mouth down-
wards, and from the manner in which its different parts
are coiled upon each other, presenting, like the brain,
a number of convolutions ;
yet however continuous and
similar are all the parts of this tube, we never doubt
the existence of distinct organs. One part of the tube
is an organ of deglutition, another of chymification, a
third of chylification, and a fourth of fcecification.
Reasoning, like the opponents of phrenology, that be-
cause these parts are neither different in structure, nor
insulated like the external senses, we must come to the
absurd conclusion that they are not distinct organs.
There is nothing then in the phrenological doctrine at
variance with anatomy. The structure and arrange-
ments of the cerebral organs may not be such as might
a priori be expected ; but who could tell a priori what
W'ould be the structure of an organ of the mind ? nay,
who could tell a priori what would be the structure of
any organ? We cannot calculate the structure of an
organ from its function, or the function from any given
structure. There is nothing in the structure of the
optic nerve that would lead us to the conclusion that it
is an organ of vision, or of the auditory nerve that it is
PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED. 21
the essential part of the organ of hearing. When the
function is once discovered, we can then generally find
an adaptation of the means to the end, a correspondency
between the structure and function ; but a knowledge
of structure alone will not necessarily lead to a know-
ledge of function. Were it otherwise, the discovery
of the function of every organ would be simultaneous
with the discovery of its structure, and we would long
ago have found out the uses of the spleen, the thyroid,
and the thymus glands, the supra-renal capsules, the
vermiform process of the coecum, &c., the functions of
which are still problematical.
If the function of an organ, then, cannot be discovered
by a knowledge of its structure, how can it be disco-
vered ? By experiment or observation. Phrenologists
endeavour to discover the functions of the cerebral parts
by observation, and seeing our knowledge of the func-
tions of the external senses has been obtained in this way,
they do not despair of arriving at an equal degree of cer-
tainty regarding the functions of the internal organs.
But are not the internal organs altogether beyond the
reach of observation ? Are they not surrounded with
bone, covered still farther with a certain depth of soft
parts, and as if nature wished to thwart all such inves-
tigations, has she not shrouded them in still greater
darkness by the luxuriant drapery of hair which she has
surmounted to the whole ? Is it not, therefore, clear
that though the organs existed, as indicated by Phreno-
logists, that they never could be discovered in the
living state, and that Phrenology would thus be reduced
to a dead letter, or at best fitted for the closet specula-
tions of the physiologist ?
22 OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ANSWERED.
In reply to this popular objection it must be
remarked that the brain gives the form to the head,
and whatever may be the thickness of the cerebral
envelopes, they never impart a shape to the head
materially different from that of the brain. The brain,
it is particularly to be observed, is the first part of the
head that is formed, and the skull is moulded round
the delicate organ. It is not the skull that gives the
form to the brain, but the brain that gives the form to
the skull, and whatever peculiarity of conformation the
former may possess, is uniformly and necessarily im-
parted to the latter.
After the middle period of life, indeed, the frontal
sinuses expand, or in other words, the tables of the
skull at the lower part of the forehead separate, and
thus form two cavities which communicate with the
nostrils. The formation of such cavities, however,
cannot take place without protruding to a certain
extent the outer table of the skull, and thus a promi-
nence is formed for which we have no corresponding
cerebral development. I am surprised at the impor-
tance which has been attached to this fact by the
opponents of Phrenology. They seem to view it as a
triumphant refutation of the whole science, as if these
sinuses altered the general configuration of the head.
But if the fundamental principles of the science can be
proved to be well-founded, the existence of these
cavities must be viewed only as a difficulty in the prac-
tical application of the science, and a difficulty which
a little experience will enable us easily to overcome.
It cannot invalidate Phrenology as a science ; for
if the cerebral organs are there, such cavities can
THE BRAIN NOT A SINGLE ORGAN. 23
neither increase nor diminish the internal power ;
they
only add a little to the difficulty of ascertaining it.
These nasal cavities do not exist at the earlier periods
of life, and cannot at these periods affect our judgment
regarding the cerebral development. And even when
they do exist they can easily be recognised, and the
requisite allowances made in calculating the size of the*
cerebral organs.*
CHAPTER II.
The Brain not a single Organ proved.—The Mind displays differed
mental Powers.—Diversity of Form in the Brains of different Indi-
viduals Diversity of Talents.—Partial Idiocy and partial Insanity.
Dreaming.—Anatomy in Harmony with Phrenology.
Having thus attempted to prove that the brain is the
organ of the mind, and endeavoured to obviate some
of the objections which lie at the threshold of our
investigation, we are now prepared to enter a little
farther into the subject, and to consider the grounds on
which the plurality of the cerebral organs rest. I might
prove the truth of the phrenological doctrine, generally
and consequently, of the plurality of organs on which
Phrenology is founded, by appealing to experience and
observation, for these are the tests to which it will
ultimately be referred. But as this line of argument
would be considered unsatisfactory by many, I shall
attempt to prove the existence of the organs of the
* It is an interesting fact that some of the organs over which the
sinuses lie were discovered in boys, and, consequently, before the sinuses
were developed.
24 DIVERSITY OF FORM.
brain from certain facts and observations which all, or
almost all, admit.
1st. It cannot be doubted that the mind displays a
plurality of powers. All metaphysicians in explaining
the phenomena of the mind proceed upon this supposi-
tion ;
and to show how little guided they have been
* by correct principles we have only to observe the
diversity of opinion that exists upon the subject ; some
enumerate only three such powers, as sensation, me-
mory, and judgment ; others add attention, imagina-
tion, association of ideas, and some reckon up more
than twenty fundamental powers. Of the correctness
of such views I do not at present speak. I only slate
these facts to show that all metaphysicians admit that
the mind displays more than one power, and if we have
established the fact that the mind manifests its powers
only through the medium of the brain, it follows that
a plurality of mental powers can only be manifested
through a plurality of cerebral organs.
2d. There is no internal organ of the body that
assumes such a diversity of form in different individuals
as the brain.
The liver, for example, may vary in size in different
individuals, but in the healthy state, generally speak-
ing, all its parts bear the same relative proportion to
each other. But it is far otherwise with the brain.
Besides the immense variation of size in the whole
brain in different individuals, we find an equal, if not a
greater, diversity in the proportions of the subordinate
parts. Many have the anterior* lobes small, while the
middle* and posterior* are greatly developed. On the
* See Plates 3 and t.
IN THE BRAIN, &C. 25
other hand, not a few are found with the middle or
posterior lobes small, and the anterior ones in the
greatest development. Some have the greatest portion
of brain at the base of the skull, while others have that
part narrow, and the most expanded portion at the top
of the head. Besides these differences of form in the
great outlines of the head, there are others of a subor-
dinate character which are no less remarkable. Each
convolution of the brain may be developed in different
degrees, and thus the incalculable varieties of form in
the human head can easily be accounted for. Some-
times a single convolution arrives at the maximum of
development, while those in the vicinity are only of
a moderate size ; the part thus superiorly developed
assumes invariably a certain form, and gives a charac-
teristic prominence to the skull over that part of the
brain, which the experienced eye can easily discover.
Are these diversities of form of no consequence ? Is
it immaterial at what part of the cerebral mass the
greatest development is found ? Will a man with a
small forehead and an expanded hindhead think as
profoundly as the man whose greatest proportion of
brain is in the forehead ? No man who has studied
nature carefully can answer these questions in the
affirmative. Look at the head of a man of a grovelling
and sensual character and you will find the greatest
part of brain behind the ear. Compare the head of
such a character with another of an opposite descrip-
tion, and the difference will at once be apparent. The
intellectual character has always a large proportion of
brain before the ear, and a beauty thus appertains to
such a head which can never be imparted to the other.
n
26 DIVERSITY OF TALENT, AND
The Grecian and Roman sculptors were celebrated for
their nice imitation of nature, but the heads of their
gladiators and philosophers are always represented
differentlj", and in strict conformity with phrenological
principles. They had never heard of Phrenology, yet
they never once violated its principles, because its
principles are founded in nature, and they took nature
only for their guide.
The opponents of Phrenology have insinuated that
Dr. Gall first mapped out the skull into so many com-
partments, and then tried to mould nature to his specu-
lations ; but this is not a correct reading of the history
of Phrenology. Dr. Gall, on the contrary, as we have
already shown, first observed a correspondency between
particular mental powers and particular prominences or
particular conformations of the head, and it was only
after repeatedly observing the concomitancy between
the power and the conformation that he held the rela-
tionship as inseparably connected. Phrenologists main-
tain that Gall’s observations are correct. Their expe-
rience coincides with his, and they challenge any one to
adduce an instance in which the power exists without
the cerebral development.
3d. The diversity of talents among men, and the
existence of partial talent in individuals, can only be
explained satisfactorily on the supposition of a plurality
of mental organs. I am aware that the peculiarity of
talent and disposition in mankind has been attributed
by metaphysicians to the circumstances in which they
were placed. The mind of the infant has been com-
pared to a sheet of white paper on which any kind of
character may be traced. You may train up a child,
EXISTENCE OF PARTIAL TALENT. 27
they say, to be a poet, or a painter, or a musician ;
or
you make him as you please either remarkable for every
good and amiable quality, or for every low and de-
grading vice. But are these views of human nature
consistent with experience ? Are there not some indi-
viduals who cannot be made poets, or painters, or
musicians ? and are there not individuals who have
evinced from their earliest years amiable tempers and
dispositions of mind, and others who exhibit every
thing the reverse? If all children have not the same
temper and disposition at birth, to what is the difference
to be attributed ? Not surely to circumstances, for
they have not had time to operate, but to something in
themselves. If circumstances can form the intellectual
and moral character of man it is clear that they can
only do so either by creating mental powers, or affect-
ing in some particular way the powers which have been
already given him by nature. That circumstances can
draw forth talents we admit, but that they can create
mental powers is so inconsistent with observation that
we cannot believe it. If circumstances can create
powers, why can we not make an idiot a philosopher ?
We naturally say that that is impossible ; they have not
the capacity, and the co-operation of all the circum-
stances on earth cannot impart the talent or capacity
to them. All talent is inherent, never the result of
external causes. Favourable circumstances will, no
doubt, do much to improve or render available talents
that already exist. They can do no more ; but they
can obviously never make them.
We all admit with Horace, that “poeta nascitur non
28 EXISTENCE OF PARTIAL IDIOCY,
fit;” but if this maxim is just with regard to the poet-
ical talent, it is equally just with regard to talent of
every other kind. If talent be inherent then, and the
brain a single organ, by means of which the mind
manifests its powers, it follows that a man who is re-
markable for any one talent should be equally remark-
able for every other. But we know that there are
men who show a talent only in one way, and who be-
yond their owr
n province are perfect fools. Is the man
who excels in poetry necessarily a good mathemati-
cian ? or the mathematician necessarily a great poet
and orator ? To maintain that because a man excels
in one pursuit he must necessarily be capable of excel-
ling in every other, is just as preposterous as to main-
tain that because a man sees well he must necessarily
hear, and have all the other external senses in equal
perfection. That some men have a variety of talents
is unquestionable ;
but the majority of mankind possess
only moderate mental powers, and among these how
often do we find an individual who displays in a
degree which astonishes every one, a particular talent.
Even a talent of this kind has been evinced by idiots,
w'hose mental powers were otherwise so weak that
they could not comprehend the meaning of the simplest
proposition. It is evident then, that mental powers
exist in the same individual, at the same time in various
degrees of strength and in various degrees of aptitude
for improvement ; and, as the brain is the part of the
body through which the mind manifests all its powers,
it follows incontrovertibly, that the brain cannot be a
single organ, else all its powers would be manifested
AND PARTIAL INSANITY. 29
in an equal degree, but must be an aggregate of parts,
or a congeries of organs, each part or organ manifesting
a particular power.
4th. The plurality of the cerebral organs may be
deduced from the existence of partial idiocy and partial
insanity.
No system of mental philosophy except the phreno-
logical can explain satisfactorily the two conditions of
the mind called idiocy and insanity. To say that the
one is mental imbecility and the other mental derange-
ment, affords no explanation, nay it leads to the suppo-
sition that the essence of the mind is affected. But
while Phrenology leads to no such dangerous conclu-
sion, it enables us satisfactorily to explain these two
very peculiar conditions of man. Idiocy always arises
from a defective organization or development of the
brain, and insanity always from diseased cerebral
structure. If the whole brain be defective in its
organization or development, the idiocy is complete ;
or if the whole brain be diseased, as in inflamma-
tion or excessive intoxication, the insanity is com-
plete ; but idiocj' and insanity are often partial, and
there is no way of explaining such phenomena satisfac-
torily but on the supposition of a plurality of cerebral
organs. Some idiots have shown a talent for music,
others for imitation, others for calculation, and others
for constructing mechanical instruments ; and it is well
known that many persons are insane on one subject
only. If the brain was a single organ, through which
the mind manifested all its powers, these mental phe-
nomena never could occur ; for, if the brain was sound,
all the powers would be equally manifested, or if dis-
v 2
30 PHENOMENA OF DREAMING.
eased, all the powers would be equally affected. But
as some of the mental powers in these instances are
strong and others weak, some of them affected and
others unaffected, it clearly follows that all the parts of
the brain cannot be in the same state, or the brain is
not the organ of thought. If we are forced to admit
this, we must also admit that the parts of the brain in
these different or opposite states are parts through
which different powers are manifested, and we thus
arrive directly at the conclusion of a plurality of cere-
bral organs.
5th. The plurality of the cerebral organs may be
proved from the phenomena of dreaming. During
sound sleep we are quite unconscious of existence, and
when this takes place the whole brain is in a state of
inactivity or torpor. All corporeal organs require
rest ; and during the repose of the brain the mental
powers are enveloped as in a thick cloud. But the
sleep is often partial, or as we say, disturbed by
dreams. We seem to ourselves to be engaged, it may
be, in furious or deadly combat, or as peacemakers,
soothing the ruffled spirits of others, and tendering our
warmest solicitudes for a reconciliation. We may
seem engaged in some complex and harassing calcula-
tion, or in reading some interesting work of literature
or science. Or the imagination may take wing and
carry us into Elysian fields, where the eye delights to
rest on the enchanting scene, and the ear to be regaled
with the songs of the birds of paradise. These may be
viewed as specimens of simple dreams ; but dreams are
frequently much more complex, and generally the more
complex, the more incoherent and inconsistent they
PHENOMENA OF DREAMING. 31
become. The dream may consist of a grotesque
assemblage of misshapen images and extravagant
ideas, and of the most whimsical and foolish acts ;
yet
all will appear to the dreamer as right, and it is onlv
after we awake that we laugh at the ideal medley. If
we were to think during the day as we dream at
night, we would be fit for a madhouse; yet these dif-
ferent states of the mental operations are solely ow'ing
to different conditions of the brain. If the brain was
in the same state during a dream as when awake, we
W'ould dream rationally and coherently. But as this
is obviously not the case, we must come to the conclu-
sion that at these two periods the state or condition of
the organ is different. If the brain were a single
organ, rtri^ quite clear that we could never dream ; for
if the organ were asleep there would be total uncon-
sciousness, and if awake our ideas would be rational
and connected ; but admit the existence of a plurality
of cerebral organs and the difficulty vanishes. We
could then suppose one or more of such organs aw’ake,
while the rest were asleep, and the waking organs
executing their functions while the others wr
ere in a
state of torpidity or repose, and we would thus have
ideas and feelings corresponding with the functions of
the waking organs. Every dream and every modifi-
cation of dream may, on this principle, he accounted
for; and we can explain this curious mental pheno-
menon satisfactorily on no other.
6th. Anatomy leads to the conclusion of a plurality
of cerebral organs. Although Anatomy and Physio-
l°8y are intimately connected, and reciprocally assist
each other, yet, it must be remembered, that Physio-
82 ANATOMY IN HARMONY
logy is capable of shedding a much stronger and clearer
light upon the structure, than the structure upon the
function ; and in many organs the intimate structure
cannot be learned till the uses are ascertained. Besides
the investigation of structure, there are two modes
which physiologists usually employ in the investigation
of function. One by experiment on the living subject,
torturing and forcing, as it were, nature to yield her
secrets ; and the other by a careful notification of the
effects of diseased structure upon the function. ^
These are the plans indeed which physiologists
generally adopt, in investigating the functions of any
organ ; and they are the only means in the majority of
cases which can be resorted to with any rational pro-
spect of success.
Of these two methods, the latter is generally more
to be depended upon than the former, and the former is
more applicable to organs of a simple structure than
those which are complicated.
The functions of the brain have been attempted to
be elucidated in both of these ways ; but only with
partial success. The experimental method has led to
inconsistencies and contradictions, and the observa-
tions and investigations of pathologists to no decided
result. Indeed it is exceedingly probable, that neither
of these modes of investigating function is applicable to
the brain, for from the very constitution and structure
of the cerebral mass a part can scarcely be injured or
affected with disease, without other parts being simul-
taneously or secondarily influenced.
Under these circumstances, it is a matter of congra-
tulation, that another and more successful mode of
WITH PHRENOLOGY. 33
investigating the functions of the brain was instituted
by Gall.
Dr. Gall by a series of observations made on the
living human head, arrived at the conclusion that every
species of feeling, emotion, and intellectual operation,
not only emanates from the brain, but also that the
degree of development of the different parts of the
brain indicate (under certain limitations) the degree of
strength of such feelings and powers. Dr. Gall main-
tained that the signs of our mental constitution could
be seen in the living head ; and surely there is nothing
unphilosophical in such an idea ;
nay, the idea that such
signs exist somewhere in the body is prevalent through-
out society. Is not physiognomy founded upon this
very principle ? and every one admits, that from the
form, and more particularly from the expression of the
countenance, many important conclusions may be de-
duced regarding the state or condition of the mind. The
signs of Gall and those of Lavater are no doubt differ-
ent. They are both, however, corporeal signs of a
mental condition, and what reason have we to think
that the signs of Gall are less valuable than those of
Lavater. "W e have no reason to think so, for the signs
of Gall have a direct reference to the part of the body
through which mental manifestation flows ; while those
of Lavater are at best connected with parts that are
only secondarily related to the mental operations. The
mode of investigation thus proposed by Gall, is founded
on the principle, that the size and form of the brain can be
discovered during life ; and it is scarcely necessary to say
that this position is consistent with the fact. The brain
itself is no doubt hid from our view ; but its protecting
31 PHRENOLOGY IN HARMONY
bony incasement is moulded upon the organ so as to
indicate with an accuracy sufficient for every practical
purpose, the quantum and configuration of the contained
material. Here then is the first point of connexion
that subsists between Anatomy and Phrenology, and
so far they unquestionably harmonize.
An important connexion subsists, in the second
place, between the structure of the brain itself and the
phrenological system. Phrenology inculcates that the
mind displays a multiplicity of powers ; and as it is a
fundamental principle in the science that the mind can
oe manifested only through an organic apparatus, we
legitimately conclude, that a multiplicity of powers
requires for their manifestation a corresponding number
of organic parts ; but reasoning alone on such a subject
is unsufficient to convince. The question recurs : are
these organic parts to be found ? If such parts cannot
be demonstrated, their existence is not to be assumed ;
but fortunately for Phrenology they can be easily de-
monstrated. The brain is the most complicated organic
structure found in man ; and the most cursory glance at
the arrangement of its parts leads at once to a conclu-
sion at variance with singleness of structure. Without
referring to the immense size of the organ in man, com-
pared with that of other animals, we have only to
observe the first grand division of the mass into cere-
brum and cerebellum, or great and little brain—the
division of each of these into two nearly equal and
symmetrical portions—the division again of each half of
the cerebrum into three lobes, the anterior, middle, and
posterior, and the still more minute division of each of
these lobes into numerous convolutions. All these
WITH ANATOMY. 35
parts thus separated to a greater or less extent, are
observed on the most cursory examination ; and when
we enter upon a more minute investigation of its inter-
nal structure, we find every thing harmonizing most
beautifully with the principles of Phrenology—the
brain is formed essentially of soft and plastic fibres,
which diverge from the medulla oblongata, or top of the
spinal marrow, to the convolutions. Here then we have
undoubtedly a plurality of parts, and what reason have
we to suppose that these parts are incapable of separate,
and to a certain extent independent functions. The
fibrous structure of the brain is directly and beautifully in
harmony with Phrenology, for we have in such a struc-
ture all the necessary elements of a plurality of organs ;
the fibres are not only exceedingly numerous, but they
vary in length, direction, and consistency. We cannot
tell how these fibres are connected in the process of think-
ing ; but knowing as we do, that mental manifestation
cannot be evinced without them, it would be absurd to
suppose that circumstances which affect these fibres,
such as length, direction, and number, would have no
effect upon the mental state. The muscular system
furnishes us with a strong analogical argument in
favour of this view. Analogies, are not always
to be trusted, but in such a subject we have no other
mode of illustration ; and a corroboration of our views
from other departments of anatomy, is not to be de-
spised. The muscular system of the human body
consists essentially of fibres of a particular kind, that are
endowed with a property of contracting or shortening
themselves; and we see that length, direction, and rela-
tive situation of these fibres, tell materially upon the
36 PHRENOLOGY CONSISTENT
effects they are capable of producing. Influenced by
these circumstances, what diversified and even opposite
effects appear! Modified by these circumstances, mus-
cular fibres may produce flexion, extension, adduction,
abduction, rotation, and circumduction, of a limb.
These are no doubt various and opposite effects pro-
duced by the action of similar muscular fibres : have we
not good reason to suppose then, that the fibres through
which mental manifestation emanates, may by difference
of length, direction, or situation, be so affected as to
conduce to most important differences of mental consti-
tution and state ?
The places assigned by Gall to the respective organs,
both absolutely and relatively in the brain, is not only
an indirect proof of the plurality of the cerebral organs,
but of the truth and beauty of Phrenology as a science.
It is to be remembered that Gall did not manufacture
a theory ; he proceeded upon the Baconian system
of observing and noting facts; he compared the
developments of particular parts of the head with the
characters of individuals as displayed in their actions ;
and he arrived at the conclusion, that particular confor-
mations of head were always concomitant with parti-
cular talents or particularity of mental powers. We do
not at present speak of the accuracy of these observa-
tions ; we merely wish to state that a fact was noted at
one time regarding the forehead, at another time re-
garding the hindhead, and at a third time regarding,
some other region of the brain ; there was no precon-
ceived order or system in the observations he made.
These observations depended upon circumstances which
were contingent, and yet what system of the mind
COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 37
exists in which order and beauty are more conspicuous
Without adverting to Phrenology as a metaphysical
system independently of the organs, does it not impart
a strong probability of the truth of Phrenology, that
notwithstanding the erratic mode in which the organs
were discovered, we find no unnatural mixture or
jumbling of the organs ;
those of the same kind are in
general found in juxta-position, or in other words, we
find them allocated in the most scientific and systematic
manner? While we find, for example, all the intellec-
tual powers in the forehead, the sentiments are found
exclusively in the upper region of the head, and the
propensities in the lateral, lower, and posterior regions
only. Had the organs been fabricated, the method of
investigation pursued by Gall would have led to a chaos
of confusion, but as order and harmony reign not only
in the great subdivisions, but also in the subordinate
groupes of the different organs, we may safely conclude
that such organs are not factitious but founded in
nature.
CHAPTER III.
Comparative Anatomy) of the Nervous System favourable to Phre-
nology.—Zoophytes—Molluscous) Animals.— Articulated Animals —
Fishes.—Reptiles.—Birds—Quadrupeds —Facial angle of Camper.—
Argument in Favour of Phrenology from Camper’s Principles.—
Argument from the Process of Development of the Brain.
The phrenological doctrine receives strong coun-
tenance and support from comparative anatomy. It
has long ago been remarked, that as animals rise in
E
38 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY
the scale of intelligence, their brain becomes the more
developed. This is strikingly displayed in the verte-
brated animals, but not confined to them. A short
reference to the nervous system of both the inverte-
brated and vertebrated animals will place the subject
in a clearer light. Mr. Lawrence* has remarked, that
the visible fabric of the brain differs most widely in
quadrupeds, birds, fishes, insects ; and that there is an
equal difference in their intellectual phenomena, appe-
tites, and instincts, every .'variation in construction
being accompanied, he says, with a corresponding
modification of function. This is the phrenological
doctrine ;
and that the subject may be clearly under-
stood, we shall give a brief outline of the comparative
anatomy of the nervous system.
In the lowest orders of animals, Zoophytes for exam-
ple, no nervous system is discoverable. In animals
of this kind, indeed, voluntary motion may be per-
ceived, and we must therefore suppose that a nervous
system of some kind exists ; but as no distinct ner-
vous apparatus can be detected, it is probable, as Cuvier
has remarked, that the nervous matter is equally
diffused over the whole body. This kind of nervous
system has been called the Molcular by M‘Leay, each
molcule being analagous to a ganglion, or centre of
sensation. It is unnecessary to observe, that such
animals display little mind ;
they exhibit, however, great
tenacity of life, and by division may be increased in-
definitely.
The actions of the acephalous mollusca, which rank
a grade higher in the scale of being, are simply vital
* See bis Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, p. 109.
FAVOURABLE TO PHRENOLOGY. 39
and of course automatic. Such animals are destitute of
the senses and voluntary locomotion, both sexes exist-
ing in the same animal, which is usually protected by
a shelly encasement. Such is the condition of the oyster,
whose nervous system presents neither great develop-
ment nor complexity ; it has neither brain nor spinal
cord, but two ganglia, one at each extremity of the ani-
mal, and these are the sources of its visceral nerves.
Still higher in the scale of being, though belonging
to the same class, we find the cephalopodous mollusca,
as the cuttle-fish, and the gasteropoda,
as the snail ; and
to note the remarkable change which the addition of a
head, imperfect though it be, imparts to these animals,
we have only to compare their instincts with those of
their headless brethren. The cuttle-fish can elude
the pursuit of its enemy by a very cunning-like con-
trivance j and the snail we know displays amorous
propensities, and actions resulting from these propensi-
ties, of a very peculiar kind. Both display the rudiment
of a brain, which in the cuttle-fish is bi-lobed, and of a
crescentic form in the snail. These animals, indeed,
have no proper spinal cord, but in the cuttle-fish the
nervous cord which encircles the gullet is probably the
analogous part.
Crustaceous animals, insects and worms, agree not
only in their general form, but in the arrangement of
their nervous system. The bodies of these animals
are divided into segments, each segment having, to a
certain extent, a vitality of its own. The nervous
system of these animals consists of a brain—a nervous
collar which surrounds the gullet, and a medullary
cord consisting of a series of ganglia, one occupying
40 DEVELOPMENT OF NBKVOUB
each segment of the bod)', and connected by a double
row ol nervous internodes. From these ganglia arise
the nerves of the senses, and of the vital and voluntary
powers. Insects are tenacious of life to a great de-
gree, and are remarkable for their powers of motion
the last of these effects may be accounted for from the
relative great size of the ganglia of the spinal cord ;
and the first from the well-known fact, that, as we
descend in the scale of being, the nervous system is
less concentrated in a particular region of the body,
but diffused in such a manner that every part has nearly
the same degree of vitality. The development' of the
nervous system in some insects is peculiarly interest-
ing. The observations of Dr. Herold have thrown
much light on this part of physiology, and which lead
to conclusions favourable to Phrenology. With great
care he traced the gradual changes that take place in
the nervous system of the common cabbage butterfly,
from the time it obtains its full size to its assumption
of the imago. These changes were found to consist
principally in the progressive shortening of the nervous
internodes, and consequent approximation of the ganglia
—in the obliteration of some of the nerves—in the
amalgamation of two or more ganglia—in the union of
the first ganglion with the brain—in the union of two
ganglia at the expense of one or two others—and,
lastly, in the lobes of the brain which formed an angle
with each other becoming horizontal. These are, no
doubt, remarkable and necessary changes ;
and why
necessary ? Because the animal is about to change its
character, and a corresponding change of nervous
system is indispensable. Had the nervous system of
SYSTEM IN INSECTS. 41
the insect undergone no change when such an obvious
change in the powers and habitudes of the animal had
been effected, we might have drawn a conclusion unfa-
vourable to Phrenology. But all these changes are in
harmony with the phrenological system. Change of
structure must always precede a change of function ;
and we find here a series of important changes, with-
out which the necessary muscular, sensitive and instinc-
tive powers could not have been imparted. In the
vertebrated animals the nervous system is exceedingly
complicated, but its outlines are the same in fishes, rep-
tiles, birds and quadrupeds. These animals have all
the grand divisions of the nervous system as in man,
but their brain differs most remarkably from that of
man in size, form and complexity.
The brain in fishes is in a mere rudimentary state, more
developed in reptiles, still more in birds, and in quad-
rupeds it has attained an approximation to the hu-
man brain.* In the heads of all animals there are
* “ In insects, fish and amphibia, the nervous masses contained in the
cerebral reservoir arc still divided into several distinct masses. The
greater part of these are not integrant parts of the brain properly so
called; they are ganglia from which arise the nerves of smell, hearing,
sight, &c. The two hemispheres properly so called, are situated behind
the two ganglia of the olfactory nerves, and are the more complicated
as the industrial instincts arc more numerous ;
the cerebellum in these
animals generally forms a hollow bag, sometimes placed horizontally,
sometimes folded together.
“ In birds the two hemispheres are now more considerable, although
distinct convolutions cannot be discovered. The cerebellum still con-
sists only of its middle or fundamental part ;
but already appears com-
posed of many rings placed side by side.
“ In the small mammalia, the shrew mouse, mouse, rat, squirrel
weasel, &c„ convolutions are not yet to be seen; but as they exist in'
other larger rodentia, the beaver, kangaroo, &c,, we may suppose that
they exist also in them.
42 HEAD OF INFERIOR ANIMALS.
two parts, the cranium and face. The one contains
the brain, and the other lodges the principal organs of
sensation, particularly the organs of sight, smell, and
taste. If these organs are greatly developed the greater
is the size of the face, and the greater its relative pro-
portion to the cranium. On the contrar}', the larger
the brain the greater must be the capacity of the cra-
nium, and the greater its proportion to the face. On
these principles a large cranium and a small face indi-
cate a large brain with a restricted development of
some of the external senses, but a small cranium and a
large face is admitted by all physiologists to indicate
the opposite character. So much have physiologists
been persuaded of these facts, that they have laboured
for centuries to discover some criterion by which the
“ In the larger mammalia, the cat, polecat, marten, fox, dog, ape,
the convolutions are more distinct and numerous, but their form varies
according to the species.
“ In the dolphin, elephant, and man, they are more numerous and
deep than in the beaver, kangaroo and cat, and their form and direc-
tion varies essentially with the species.
“ In all the mammalia, the cerebellum possesses, besides the middle
or fundamental part, two lateral parts which are more or less complex
according to the species.
“ The number of the integral parts, or of the convolutions of the
brain, varies also in the different species of the mammalia ;
in some
the anterior lobes of the hemispheres are larger or more elevated
in others again, the inferior parts of the anterior lobes are nearly
wanting. The middle lobes and the other convolutions present similar
varieties.
“ In this way the integrant parts of the brain augment in number
and development as we pass from a less perfect to a more perfect ani-
mal, till we arrive at the brain of man, who, in the anterior and superior
region of the frontal bone, possesses several parts of which other ani-
mals arc deprived, and by means of which he is endowed with the most
eminent qualities and faculties, with reason, and the feeling of religion,
and the existence of God.” Gall, Vol. II. p. 364.
FACIAL ANGLE. 43
proportion of brain and consequent proportion of intel-
lect could be discovered in living animals. Camper
was the most successful of these inquirers, and his prin-
ciples, so far as they go, are consonant with Phrenology.
If a line be drawn from the upper jaw by the side of the
nose over the most prominent part of the forehead, it
will form an angle with another line drawn horizontally
from the nostril to the opening of the ear. This is the
celebrated facial angle of Camper. The angle varies
with the form of the brain. It is more obtuse or open
as the forehead advances, and with the retreating of the
forehead it is the more acute.
The facial angle of the Horse in this way,
measures .... 23°
Ram, . .
30°
Dog, . . 35°
Ourang-Outang, 56°
European Adult, 85°
While phrenologists admit, to a certain extent, the
justness of Camper’s principles, they know that his
plan is defective. It cannot indicate particular talents.
The phrenological system, however, has this great su-
periority, that it leads, to a just estimate both of the
general powers of the mind and of the peculiar talents
and dispositions of the individual. Camper’s views are
so far phrenological that they not only imply the brain
to be the organ of the mind, but they even imply that
the anterior part of the brain is more intimately con-
nected with the intellectual powers than the others.
Camper’s measurements refer only to the anterior parts
of the brain, and his general conclusions regarding
these parts are not inconsistent with Phrenology. Cut
u DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN
will any such measurements of the developments of
the lateral and posterior parts of the brain lead us to a
just conclusion regarding the sagacity of the animal or
the intelligence of man? By no means. No physio-
logist has fallen into the absurdit}' of supposing this.
But does it not follow, that if we cannot estimate the
intelligence of the individual from the lateral and pos-
terior parts of the brain, as well as from the anterior,
that all these parts cannot be concerned in the same
function? We have, therefore, different parts with
different functions, or, in other words, a plurality of
organs in the brain. This conclusion receives a still
stronger confirmation from the history of the growth
and development of the brain in the human being.
The human brain undergoes a series of changes in
its progress to completion. In the early periods of
foetal life it exhibits the form and all the characters of
that of a fish. In process of time it assumes the appear-
ance of the brains of a reptile. By an addition of matter
it is afterwards assimilated to the brains of birds. By
a farther addition it takes the form of the quadrupedal
brain, and after passing through gradations correspond-
ing with the gradations in the mammiferous animals, it
attains the character peculiar to man.* If the form and
development of the brain were of no consequence, why
all these extraordinary changes ? Nature does nothing,
in vain ;
and if great intellectual capacity could have
been manifested through a brain as simple as that of
a fish, would not a brain of that simple organization
have been imparted to us ? But even among the in-
ferior animals the brain varies with their endowments.
* See Tiedcmnnn'on (he Development of the foetal Brain.
CONFIRMATORY OF PHRENOLOGY. 45
The tish is lowest in the scale of vertebrated animals,
and it possesses, as we have hinted, a brain of the
simplest form. Reptiles rank higher in the scale of
being than fishes, and have a greater development of
the cerebral organ. Birds have propensities and powers
which are not found in the reptilp tribes, and have a
corresponding increase in their brain. Quadrupeds are
admitted to be far superior to birds in those instincts
which approximate to human reason, and in them we
find a cerebral form and development which we look
for in vain in the less exalted classes. In all the in-
ferior animals, the cerebral lobes are in a rudimentary
state, or at best, developed in a slight degree ; but in
man they are at a maximum of development, and, it is
needless to say, that in him the intellectual powers are
in corresponding pre-emineney. From these facts we
are entitled to draw the conclusion, that the brain is not
a single organ ; —that different parts of it have different
powers ; for when certain parts are small or defective,
certain powers are weak or non-existent, and with the
development of the part the power appears. Besides,
as man has all the parts of the brain which exist in the
inferior animals, as well as many other peculiar to him-
self, we are led to the conclusion, that he must exhibit
not only all the feelings which exist in the lower tribes,
and other powers which they do not display ; but also,
that those parts of the human brain which exist in the
inferior animals must be the seat of animal propensity,
and those parts which exist only in man the seat of
powers purely moral and intellectual. Such conclusions
are neither forced nor hastily drawn. They flow purely
from the facts which comparative anatomy furnishes.
46 NERVOUS SYSTEM OF MAN.
and form, at the same time, an adamantine basis on
which phrenological science may be erected.
CHAPTER IV.
Nervous System of Man.—Nerves. —Ganglia.—Plexuses.—Spinal Mar.
row or Chord.—Medulla Oblongata.—Cerebellum.—Cerebrum.
The Nervous System of Man is remarkably compli-
cated, yet a short description of the different parts that
enter into its formation may not prove uninteresting even
to the general inquirer. All the parts of this system
may be classified in the following manner : —1st. Some
of these parts are arranged into cords called nerves
which ramify or branch into all the textures of the body.
2d. Others are collected into knots termed ganglia,
which differ in form, size, consistency, and colour. 3d.
Others are aggregated into masses, as in the brain and
spinal cord. The nervous cords or nerves are seen fre-
quently to unite, separate, and unite again, so as to form
intricate networks called plexuses ; and from these,
nerves are seen to run off to supply organs at a distance.
Even ganglia and plexuses intermix and form a still
more intricate assemblage of parts. It is exceedingly
difficult to discover the uses of all the individual parts of
the nervous system. At the same time, we should en-
deavour to ascertain their use. It is, indeed, of some
moment, that we can distinguish nervous matter of
vegetative from that of phrenic life ;
but this is not
enough : our energies should be directed to discover
the uses of all the parts of the nervous system. The
on
NERVES. 47
fe.
ipli.
that
vea
tern
one
TO,
Ally.
$h
3d.
3
and
ib
form
be,
it;e.
i
itiB
if
irt-of
dis-
ei
of
I!
!1';!
td'i-'
fee
subject is of the deepest interest ; but it can only re-
ceive at present a very general consideration. And,
First— Of the cords we usually denominate nerves.
—Nerves are cords of a white or whitish colour, the
consistency and solidity of which vary in different parts
of the body. They are composed of fibres which are
connected by cellular membrane, and surrounded still
farther by a sheath of the same texture called neu-
relema, which imparts considerable firmness to the
texture, and prevents the separation of its constituent
parts. The fibres can be easily seen either by slitting
up the sheath which surrounds them, or by cutting a
nerve across, and examining the section. The fibres
are placed parallel with each other. The intimate
structure of such fibres, however, is not known Some
have described them as tubular, and even pretended to
have injected them, while others maintain that they are
solid ; some consider them so elastic as to be capable
of vibrating, while others insist that they aie soft and
inelastic, and incapable of performing their function
upon the principle of a vibratory motion. Many view
them as prolongations of the brain and spinal cord, and
consequently as formed of matter similar in every re-
spect to the white cerebral substance, while others
reject this view of the case and maintain that they are
formed of something essentially different. We are as
yet ignorant of the intimate structure of the nerves,
and cannot, therefore, determine the mode in which
they perform their functions. We know, indeed, that
every nerve essentially consists of two parts, one ex-
terior, protecting and containing, and which is formed
of condensed cellular membrane ; and a second, interior.
48 GANGLIA.
contained or functional ; but the precise character of
this indispensable part of the nerve has not yet been
discovered.
These cords not only differ so far that some are en-
gaged in vegetative and others in phrenic functions;
but amongst the nerves of phrenic life, diversities of
structure and function are apparent. We find not only
nerves of motion and sensation, but each of these classes
has been found to present modifications of function
worthy of attention. Sir Charles Bell has discovered,
that, besides the motive nerves of the general system
—those that place the muscles under the control of the
will—there are superadded nerves of a similar kind
which he calls respiratory,
because they ramify upon
the muscles concerned in the process of respiration,
and associate and combine the muscles on which they,
ramify in the performance of the respiratory function.
Among the nerves of sensation, too, we know that
some are adapted for communicating general sensibility,
to the skin, and all the other textures, and others for
imparting powers inherent in the four special senses,
those of taste, smell, hearing, and sight.
We know from observation and experiment, that
nerves differ in function. The mode in which they
perform their functions are hid from our view, and the
observation is applicable not to the nerves only, but to
all the textures by which vital and intellectual opera-
tions are performed.
Second. —Of the nervous Ganglia and Plexuses.
The nervous swellings or enlargements called ganglia,
are found in determinate situations, but they differ
remarkably in form, size, and colour. As we have
STRUCTURE OF GANGLIA. 49
already hinted, they are found in connexion with the
nerves both of vegetative and phrenic life. Dr.
Spurzheim says they are composed of two nervous
substances, the white or fibrous, and the gelatinous or
pulpy into which the white is plunged. This opinion
is controverted by Serres ; and Scarpa, who has written
particularly upon the structure of these bodies, de-
scribes them as consisting of a congeries of ner-
vous threads, most of which are scarcely perceptible,
and all continuous with the nerve or nerves above and
below the ganglia. According to Scarpa, then, the
nervous cord when it enters the one extremity of the
ganglion begins to be separated into its component
fibres, which diverge and form intervals, between
which delicate cellular tissue is interposed, and that
these filaments are subsequently collected at the oppo-
site extremity of the ganglion, where they are continu-
ed into the other nerve or nerves. Our own experi-
ments and observations would lead us to prefer the
conclusion of Scarpa, yet the opinion of Spurzheim de-
rives much plausibility from the fact that one or more of
these ganglia take the place of the brain in the inver-
tebrated animals, and under these circumstances would
require to be composed at least of the grey and white
cerebral matter which is known to enter into the
brains of the higher animals. At the same time from
repeated examinations of this texture, we would be
inclined to describe each ganglion to consist of the
three following parts. 1st, An exterior covering which
varies in thickness in the ganglia of -phrenic and
vegetative life ; 2d, A number of minute nervous
filaments ; and 3d, A quantity of cellular tissue by
F
50 USES OF GANGLIA.
which these filaments are connected, and which con-
stitutes the principal part of the ganglionic mass.
Various opinions have been entertained regarding the
use of the ganglia. Some view them as brains or centres
of nervous energy ; others as parts that withdraw the
nerves which pass through them from the influences
of the will ; and others, along with Spurzheim, that
they are essential parts of the nerves to which they
belong, originating nervous fibres and serving as
points of communication between different nerves, as
well as probably aiding in the evolution and distribu-
tion of the nervous fluid, a fluid which is supposed by
many to exist, although it has never yet been a sub-
ject of demonstration. The ganglia appear to us
to effect two purposes, to be inlets of nutrition to
the nervous filaments, and modifiers of the action of
nerves. The first of these objects is effected by the
extended surface, which the ganglion presents for the
entrance of blood-vessels, and the second from the
change of relationship which the nervous fibres experi-
ence in their transit through the ganglia, a change
wr
hich may be compared to the change of relationship
which takes place to a great degree in the formation of
a plexus.
A plexus is formed by the mutual communication
and subsequent separation of two or more nervous
cords. The plexus is sometimes simple and formed
in the manner above stated, sometimes much more
complicated, when we find a greater degree of plaiting
or interlacing, and generally the greater the number of
cords that enter into the plexus, the crossing and inter-
lacing is the greater. Some of the plexuses arc situ-
NERVOUS PLEXUSES. 51
ated at the exterior and others in the interior of the
bod}'. Some are formed by nerves of vegetative and
others of phrenic life. They resemble in this respect
the ganglia, and probably ganglia and plexuses differ
in nothing essential. This opinion receives some
support from the fact that ganglia are found occasion-
ally to take the place of plexuses and vice versa ; and
that one of the ganglia (the Gasserian), at the poste-
rior root of a compound or spinal nerve always assumes
the plexiform character, that it may probably accommo-
date itself more easily to the form of the surrounding
textures. Ganglia and plexuses seem chiefly useful
as organs of sympathetic union, collecting the nervous
fibres and cords from various organs, and thus com-
bining these organs in sympathetic unity. What the
structure and use of ganglia in the invertebrated ani-
mals may be, is not easy to determine. Analogy
would lead us to the belief that the superior ganglia
at least of such animals are modifications of brain, as
these ganglia always enter into the formation of their
heads, and differ as remarkably in form and magni-
tude as the instinctive powers of such creatures differ.
Third. —Of the Cerebro-Spinal axis. This part
of the nervous system is contained within the cranium
and vertebral canal, and displays great diversity of
parts and complication of structure. We may divide it
into four portions. 1st, The spinal marrow or cord. 2d,
The medulla oblongata. 3d, The cerebellum ; and 4th,
The cerebrum. The first and second of these divisions
are remarkable for their external smoothness, the third
for its laminated appearance, and the fourth for its
convoluted structure. In the spinal cord and medulla
52 SHNAL CORD.
oblongata, the grey cerebral matter is enclosed in the
white and in the cerebellum and cerebrum, the grey
matter both covers the white and is plunged in various
ways into its substance.
1st. Of the Spinal Cord. The spinal cord is an
irregular cylindrical mass that extends from the cross-
ing of the pyramidal bodies, which is nearly opposite
the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, to the inferior
margin of the first lumbar vertebra, and consequently
occupies only the cervical, dorsal, and a small part of
the lumbar regions of the spinal canal ; the remaining
part of the canal being occupied b}r
the cauda equina,
or nerves which connect the pelvic extremities to the
lower part of the cord.
We cannot wait to notice the beautiful adaptation of
-the spinal cord to its surrounding apparatus, or show
how exquisitely the spine, its external incasement, is
not only calculated to protect the nervous prolonga-
tion within, but to perform opposite and apparently in-
consistent actions, upon the due performance of which
however, not only the well-being of the spinal cord
itself, but of almost every other part of the body de-
pends. We can only afford time to refer to the struc-
ture and uses of the spinal cord itself. This is the least
complicated of all the parts of the cerebrospinal axis.
It consists of two columns of white nervous matter
united together in the mesial line of the body, and
inclosing a central column of grey matter of a very
peculiar form. The whole mass is perfectly symme-
trical, and divided by an abdominal and dorsal fissure
or groove into two equal or nearly equal parts. The
lateral longitudinal grooves referred to by Soemering
SPINAL COBD. 53
ami Portal we have never been able to discover. We
are persuaded they do not exist. This is the opinion of
Spurzheim, and many other modern anatomists ;
and
we beg to direct particular attention to the fact, as
we intend to deduce from it a physiological conclusion.
The spinal cord is not of equal thickness throughout.
Spurzheim says its thickness at every part bears a
uniform relation to the magnitude of the nerves that
proceed from it, and consequently that it is thickest at
the points where the nerves of the upper and lower
extremities pass off. Each column of the cord has
two sets of nerves inserted into it, one into its dorsal,
the other into its abdominal surface. These are
usually called the dorsal and abdominal roots or origins
of the spinal nerves ; although Serres and Geoffroy
St. Hillaire, have clearly demonstrated that these
nerves arise from the various organs of the body, and
are inserted into the spinal cord. The experiments of
Bell and Magendie, have also proved that the dorsal
roots or insertions with their ganglia are nerves of
common sensibility, and that the anterior insertions
belong to nerves of motion only. These facts have
led many physiologists to the conclusion that the
spinal cord is an organ of motion and sensation, but in
what respects it differs from the functions of the nerves
inserted into it, they have not attempted to explain.
Dr. Spurzheim says, that it is, 1st, the origin of the
spinal nerves ;
2d, an apparatus that contributes to
muscular and sensitive powers ; and 3d, a means of
communication between the cerebral operations, the
sense of touch, the power of motion in general, and
54 SPINAL conn.
the functions of vegetative life collectively. With
the first of these views it is impossible to concur ; it
has been proved to be erroneous. The nerves are
inserted into the spinal cord, but cannot be said, in
correct language, to arise from it. That the cord con-
tributes to muscular and sensitive power is probably
true, but at the same time is a gratuitous assumption.
Injuries of the spinal cord affect indeed both muscular
motion and sensibility, but it has not yet been proved,
how much of the effect induced is attributable to the
state of the spinal cord itself, and how much to the
nerves inserted into the cord, and which are necessarily
affected by injuries or diseases of that part. Spurzheim
admits, with the more accurate anatomists, that each
lateral half of the cord consists of a single column of
nervous matter, to which both nerves of motion and sen-
sation are attached ; he supposes the column formed by
a nervous ribbon rolled upon itself ;
but, if this descrip-
tion is accurate, does it not border on the absurd to sup-
pose that this single roll of nervous matter should be the
seat of two such distinct functions as motion and sensa-
tion ? The spinal cord appears to be merely an instru-
ment of communication between the nerves of motion
and sensation, and the brain the seat of the intellectual
operations. Did time permit, we think we could prove
the correctness of this opinion by a reference to the
effects of compression—the nerves below the point of
compression only being uniformly affected, and never the
nerves beween the point of compression and the brain.
When the spinal cord at the upper part of the neck is
compressed the animal instantly dies, and we know that
MEUULLA OBLONGATA. 55
it dies, not from the direct effects of the lesion, but
from the paralysis superinduced upon the nerves, below
the point of compression, and more particularly from
the paralysis of the respiratory nerves. These nerves
are cut off’ from the influences of volition, the respiratory
muscles consequently do not act, and death necessarily
and immediately ensues. But if the spinal cord were
directly contributory to muscular and sensitive power,
is it not more than probable that it would show this
power under these circumstances ? If these nerves really
receive a supply of nervous power from the spinal cord,
what hinders that supply from being continued when a
slight compression is made at the upper extremity only of
the organ ? It would be exceedingly difficult to give a
satisfactory answer to this question ; but if we admit
that the spinal cord is only an organ of communication
or connexion, all difficulties vanish, and we have at
once a simple explanation which can account for all the
attendant phenomena, both in a state of health and
disease.
2nd. Of the Medulla Oblongata. —The medulla
oblongata is often viewed by anatomists as nothing
more than the upper extremity of the spinal cord, and
differing in no respect from the lower part of the pro-
longation, except in a. slight difference of form, and
a greater degree of bulging or protuberance. The
medulla oblongata, however, is an organ in some
respects essentially different, though in connexion
with the former. It is more complicated in structure
than the body of the spinal marrow’, of which it may
be said to constitute the capital or top. It consists of
CEREBELLUM OR LITTLE BRAIN.
66
six eminences or columns of cerebral matter, three on
each side ; these are the pyramidal, olivary and resti-
form bodies, by the union of which a distinct mass is
formed, which lies within the cranium, and is in con-
nexion with nerves, like the spinal cord itself, and
capable besides of being traced upwr
ards into the sub-
stance of the cerebrum and cerebellum. It seems, there-
fore, to have functions in common with the spinal cord,
and others which cannot be said to appertain to that
part of the nervous system. The medulla oblongata is
undoubtedly an organ of communication and connexion
between certain nerves and the brain, and constitutes
besides the formative or commencing fibres of the cere-
brum and cerebellum. This last mentioned opinion
is not purely hypothetical, it is derived from observa-
tion. The medulla oblongata exists before the brain ;
it consists of bundles of fibres which are found to ex-
tend upwards with the development of the cerebral
organ. There can be no doubt that the medulla oblon-
gata consists of bundles of fibres ; there can be no doubt
that these bundles increase in length from below
upwards, and there can be no doubt that these bundles
can be traced into the cerebrum and cerebellum, and
that they enter into the structure of these parts.
3d. Of the Cerebellum. —The cerebellum is situated
in the lower and back part of the cranium, under the
posterior lobes of the cerebrum, a dense membrane
intervening to ward off the pressure of the superincum-
bent mass. The cerebellum is of an elliptical form,
the long diameter stretching horizontally and at right
angles to the mesial line of the body. Like all other parts
STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM. 57
of the nervous system, it is symmetrical, its middle line
corresponding with the mesial line of the body, and
dividing the whole mass into the right and left hemi-
spheres, which have been still farther divided by some
anatomists into lobes, and these lobes into laminas. It is
foreign to the present discussion to enter into a minute
examination of all the processes that are found upon
the external and internal surface of this division of the
brain. It is sufficient at present to state that the
cerebellum consists of grey and white cerebral substance,
the grey covering the exterior of the whole mass, and
found also in the interior. This last constitutes the
ganglion of the cerebellum, a nucleus of grey matter
which is brought into view, by making a vertical
incision at the junction of the internal with the two
external thirds of the cerebellic hemispheres. The
white or fibrous matter of the cerebellum is continued
from the corpora restiformia of the medulla oblongata
and meeting with the grey ganglia, it proceeds strength-
ened and reinforced, and enters into the formation of
the laminae. This constitutes the divergingfibres of
the cerebellum. Another set of fibres are described
by Gall and Spurzheim as arising from the lamina3,
and which enter into the formation of the pons varolii
or tuber annulare. These are the convergingfibres
of the cerebellum, which meet in the mesial line and
form a commissure which always bears a relation to
the size of the cerebellar hemispheres.
The cerebellum is not a simple portion of cerebral
matter. It is highly complicated, and probably is
the seat of more than that feeling indicated by Gall.
This is a supposition which appears more than pro-
58 CEREBRUM OR BRAIN PROPER.
bablc from the following considerations : —1st. The
magnitude of the cerebellum. 2d. The complicated
character both of the external and internal struc-
ture of the part. 3d. The successive additions made
to it during its development. 4th. The diversity
of form and complication which exist in the cerebella
of lower animals. And, 5thly. The fact that injuries
that affect one part only of the mass, produce effects
on the generative organs. There can be no doubt that
part of this organ is the seat of the instinct of propa-
gation. What the functions of the other lobes may be
we cannot tell, and it is useless to conjecture.
4th. The Cerebrum. —This is the largest, most com-
plicated, and most important part of the nervous system.
Occupying six-sevenths at least of the cranial cavity, it
chiefly contributes to the size and form of the whole
head, and deserves consequently particular considera-
tion. Some have maintained that the form of the head
is dependent upon the scull rather than upon the brain,
but the most undoubted evidence exists of the erro-
neous nature of such a conclusion. The brain, we
know, is not only formed prior to the scull, but every
modification of form and size of the cerebral organ, and
parts within, influence in a corresponding ratio the form
and size of the osseous encasement.
The form of the cerebrum has been represented as
nearly the same in all brains, but the idea is funda-
mentally erroneous. There is a similarity undoubtedly
among different brains, but nothing more ; and it may
be questioned if two brains have been ever found pre-
cisely alike. We find not only differences in the great
outlines, some being long and narrow and others short
STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM. 59
u
ted
TICi
ei
sitr
<Sf
rid
'ecu
tilt
opa-
Tlf
0E-
tfa
tv,5
'.Tilt
ir>
rA
rain,
irety
,ici
fan
rl»
!
'
1
,
f
.
!!•
J
f
1:
'
;rii!
ii-jit
and broad—some being large and massy in the superior
region and narrow below—while in others an oppo-
site configuration is visible, the greatest mass being at
the base of the brain, and the least at the top ; but re-
markable differences are also discoverable in the rela-
tive size of the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes,
and in the relative size of the different convolutions.
The cerebrum has indeed a form which may be said in
a general way to appertain to all brains ; but the modi-
fications cf that form are infinite, like the diversity of
character that exists in society. The general form may
be said to be oval- when viewed from above, the smaller
extremity of this oval being turned forwards. It is
divided by a deep fissure into two nearly equal and
symmetrical parts, termed hemispheres, the fissure giv-
ing lodgment to a dense membrane which separates the
hemispheres, and prevents the one from gravitating
upon the other in the varied lateral motions of the
head. The two sides of the cerebrum are united in
the centre at different points, but at the anterior and
posterior extremities they are completely separated.
The superior, lateral, inferior, and commutual surfaces
of both hemispheres of the cerebrum are remarka-
ble for the number of ridges and depressions, or in
other words, for the convolutions found on every part
of the external surface of the organ. The internal
surface is smooth and so disposed as to form cavities or
chambers called ventricles, which secrete a serous fluid;
but the use of such chambers and the fluid they secrete
is not known. In the ventricles, the internal processes
of the brain are best seen ; but without waiting to de-
scribe these processes, it may be stated that they are
00 functions of the cerebrum discoverable.
not viewed as phrenological organs. They are be-
lieved to be, some of them, ganglia or organs of rein-
forcement, and others organs of cerebral communication
and connexion.
Gall viewed the brain as composed of two sets
of fibres—the diverging and converging. The first,
he says, are capable of being traced from the pyra-
midal and olivary bundles of the medulla oblongata,
through the great ganglia, to the convolutions which
they principally form ; and the second from the grey
matter upon the surface of the convolutions to the
mesial plane of the brain, where they form by their
convergence the commissures. Whether the structure
of the brain, as indicated by Gall and Spurzheim, be
substantially correct is yet problematical. Some of
their views have been proved to be correct ;
but it re-
mains to be proved, whether others are equally wel
founded.
Phrenology leads us to draw conclusions from the
form of the brain regarding the functions of the indi-
vidual parts ;
and these conclusions, if true, can never
be affected by any subsequent discovery that may be
made of the intimate texture of the organ. Gall’s pri-
mary phrenological observations were made previous
to the knowledge he ultimately arrived at, of the struc-
ture of the brain. But these observations are still ad-
mitted to be correct, and they will remain correct what-
ever notions we may entertain regarding the structure.
Gall’s phrenological conclusions were not drawn from
any supposed anatomical structure. His conclusions
were the result of close and accurate observations, and
of observations relating entirely to the form of the
THE BRAIN AT BIRTH. 61
brain. So long, then, as we can prove a relationship
between the configuration of the brain and the charac-
ter of the mental powers, the intimate structure, in
determining the truth of this relationship, can at best
be only of secondary importance.
Every part of the brain exists at the period of birth,
yet at that period it is unfit for exercising its functions.
It is larger at that period than in many of our intelli-
gent animals, yet the mind of the infant is a perfect
blank. We are bound to believe, therefore, that quality
rather than quantity of brain is the cause of this pecu-
liarity. It is destitute of the necessary consistency or
cohesion, and a certain consistency of fibre seems indis -
pensable for vigorous action. In tracing the brain from
birth to the period of old age, we can gain little assist-
ance even from those who have devoted their attention
to this very subject, for they have generally proceeded
upon the principle that the brain is a single organ. All
their observations, therefore, respect the general length,
the breadth, or the average proportions of such parts
as the cerebrum and cerebellum, or the proportions of
the cerebrum and cerebellum to some of the internal
processes. If we would exclude any from this general
animadversion, it would be the Wenzels. For twelve
years they were engaged, and under most favourable
circumstances, in investigating the structure of the
brain, and they have given the result of their experi-
ence in a book remarkable for minute and elaborate
detail.* The general result of their investigations is,
that some parts of the brain increase most in size before
* De Penitior. Struct. Cerebri.
G
62 THE BRAIN AT THE SEVENTH YEAR.
birth, others between birth and the seventh year, but
that all the parts of the cerebral organ have acquired, at
the seventh year, their full dimensions, and suffer no
alteration in this respect afterwards.
These facts, founded as they are on accurate obser-
vation, do not affect in the slightest degree the funda-
mental principles of Phrenology, for Phrenologists have
all along drawn a broad line of demarcation between the
effects of size and of energy of an organ. And although
it has been proved that the brain attains nearly its full
size at the seventh year, it has not been insinuated that
its organization is perfected at that period. We know,
indeed, that the brain is much softer at the seventh than
at the twenty-fifth year. It is obvious, therefore, that
after the brain has attained its full size, internal changes
are still in operation ; and these changes are as necessary
for the full manifestation of the intellectual operations
as that of the full external development itself. Besides,
the measurements of the Wenzels do not lead to the
conclusion, that the cerebrum and cerebellum are
exactly of the same size, and much less of the same
form, in all individuals—quite the reverse. They
found the greatest disparity in these respects ; and,
consequently, the heads of children of seven years of
age differ as much from each other as at later periods
of existence, and are fitter subjects of phrenological
observation, than the heads of the more advanced in
life. The history of Phrenology speaks strongly in
favour of this opinion, and Gall seems to have been
peculiarly attached to the study of Phrenology on the
heads of young persons. The brain at that period is
less concealed ;
the skull, muscles, and integuments,
PHRENOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE 63
are extremely thin ; the frontal sinuses are not then
developed ; and as the brain is then fully formed, it is
clear that every thing concurs to render our ideas of
the configuration of the whole brain, and of the rela-
tive size of the individual parts more accurate, than at
the advanced periods of life.*
CHAPTER V.
Phrenological Nomenclature.—Fundamental Powers.—The Essence of
the Mind an improper Subject of Investigation Short Notification
of the Fundamental Functions of the Phrenological Organs, and
Abuses to which some of them are liable.—Size of the Organs.—
Activity of the Organs.—Temperament—Combination of the Organs.
—Materialism.
Many object to the phrenological nomenclature. The
names of some of the organs, it may be admitted, are
* To those who have not examined carefully into the matter, the
statement in the text may appear startling or incredible, and the
palpable increase of size of the head,
which takes place after the seventh
year, may seem a decided refutation of the allegation. But it must be
remembered that the increase which takes place after the period
above mentioned, is easily accounted for from the growth of parts
exterior to the brain. In the child at that period, the cerebral envelopes
are extremely thin ;
they afterwards become thicker and thicker by an
increase of skull, of fat, of muscle and of skin : the additional growth
of these parts accounting most satisfactorily for whatever increase of
size the head may have attained. Some phrenologists believe that the
organs grow from the effects of mental exercise even after a very late
period in life, and casts of the same individuals at different periods of
their lives are adduced in support of the supposition. In all such
cases which the writer had an opportunity of examining, the increase
was obviously external, for the face had increased in the same propor-
tion. After attaining full growth, the brain, like the eye, neither
increases nor diminishes in size ;
its consistency or density may vary,
but we have no reason to believe that any change takes place either in
its form or size.
64<
PHRENOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.
by no means fascinating ; but if the thing is correct we
ought not to dispute too much about the terms in which
it is conveyed. The founders of the system had diffi-
culties to contend with which only few can appreciate ;
and surely we can bear with them a little should they
have imposed upon us names which are not strictly
comformable to the genius of our language. At the
same time, the terms are formed upon a principle more
philosophic than may at first sight be imagined. The
terms characterizing the propensities are derived from
a fundamental word, which is usually sufficiently plain.
Take constructiveness for example. The fundamental
word is construct, the meaning of which is perfectly
obvious. To the fundamental word, ive is added, which
indicates the power of producing, and ness is still far-
ther added, which expresses an abstract state. The
vocable ous is used in some instances to characterize a
sentiment, as cautious, conscientious, and ness is added,
as in the former instances, to point out the abstract
condition. At the same time, the names of many of
the sentiments, and of all the intellectual powers, are
formed of common terms, such as love of approbation,
self-esteem, hope, form, colour, order, comparison, &c.
To these terms no serious objection can be made;
they are expressive, and can never be misunderstood.
The phrenological nomenclature, however, has given
birth to no small merriment among those who cannot
look beyond the surface of things. Such terms, it is
said, are too outlandish for common use ; but where is
the science without its technicalities. Anatomy, che-
mistry, botany, and mineralogy, are full of them ;
but
shall we despise, reject, or laugh at those sciences,
PRIMITIVE POWERS OF THE MIND. 65
merely because the nomenclature may not be to our
liking. The weakness of the objection is rendered still
more apparent, when we remember that out of 35 or
36 technicalities, three-fourths of them are found with
precisely the same import in all our standard English
dictionaries. The few remaining terms are, no doubt, to
a certain extent, new; but so are the ideas they are made
to represent. Even of these few, four are compounded
of the common English words, adhesive, acquisitive,
constructive, ideal, to which no objection can rationally
be made. Four are compounded of words less purely
English, but still of words in use. These are amative,
concentrative, combative, and secretive. The onlv
term in phrenology, derived exclusively from a foreign
language, is philoprogenitiveness, a term which is no
doubt rather uncouth as an English word ; but which
expresses more powerfully the meaning intended to be
conveyed, than any other term which can be employed.
It may even be conceded to the opponents of phreno-
logy, that the phrenological terms, like the technicali-
ties of every science, are harsh and unwieldy ; but,
notwithstanding, they are neither illogically compound-
ed, nor unphilosophically applied.
It is of the utmost moment in investigating the
phenomena of mind, to ascertain what mental powers
arc fundamental. Philosophers have hitherto attempt-
ed to arrive at this wished for result solely by reason-
ing, but have they been successful or attained unani-
mity upon the subject ? Have they not arrived at
as many different conclusions as the number of inves-
tigators ? They have besides erred in generalizing
too much. They have referred all the actions of
66 DISCOVERY OF THE PRIMITIVE POWERS.
animals to something they call instinct, and the
thoughts and actions of men to intellect. One bird
as soon as it is hatched runs into the water, and they
say that it does so by instinct. Another sings by
instinct. Others migrate by instinct. Some animals
make provision for the winter by instinct. Now, though
we shall not call in question the propriety of such a
term, can we suppose that one condition of the brain
will explain all these various instincts. If we do not
admit that animals have positive knowledge, we must
both admit that they have determinate instincts;
and that these powers, whatever they may be, are
alone the gifts of nature. All the actions of men
have been referred to intellect ; but though intellect
is necessary for the successful prosecution of human
affairs, yet can it be explained how one man can
excel in painting and not in music ; how one man
may possess a nice taste for music, and exhibit no
talent for mathematics or poetry ; or how a man may
be a natural orator, and excel neither in poetry nor
mathematics ? This diversity of talent, I am aware,
has been attributed to the peculiarities in the mental
constitution, and the opinion is so far just ; but it is
not sufficiently explicit. Men are born with intellects
or understandings which differ materially from each
other, so that there are particular kinds of understand-
ings as there are of instincts among the inferior ani-
mals ;
and Phrenology demonstrates that each kind
of understanding has a particular instrument for its
manifestation.
Dr. Gall attempted to compare the parts of the
brain with the powers ot the mind as inculcated in
THE MIND. 67
systems of philosophy. But he could arrive at no
satisfactory result. He then compared the develop-
ments with the actions of men, and he had soon
reason to congratulate himself on his success. And is
it not an undoubted fact that some men show a dis-
position to certain actions from their earliest child-
hood ;
some to music, some to drawing, some to cal-
culation, and some to constructing mechanical instru-
ments, &c. The ancient philosophers maintained that
all genius is inherent ; nay they went farther than
this, they advocated the doctrine that every idea is
innate. But the phrenological doctrine is exceed-
ingly different. Phrenologists maintain that the dis-
positions of mankind are innate, in the same way that the
power of locomotion or vision is dependent on organs
that are born with us ; but as we cannot foretell what
kind of muscular movements may take place, or what
things may be seen, neither can the ideas which may
arise in the mind be foretold, as they depend on cir-
cumstances which are contingent.
Phrenologists admit those powers of the mind to be
fundamental, which exist in one kind of animal, and
not in another : which differ from or are not propor-
tionate to the other faculties of the same individual ;
which appear or disappear earlier or later in life than
other faculties ; which act or rest singly, and which
may singly preserve their proper state of health or
disease.* Now if the phrenological doctrines be tried
by these tests, they will not be found defective. Not one
* See Combe's System.
68 THE MIND.
of the powers which Phrenology has developed can be
dispensed with, or its place supplied by any other power.
A question extremely interesting and intimately
connected with this point arises. Is mind itself
simple or is it compound ? Metaphysicians and phi-
losopers generally admit it to be simple, and that the
various powers which it displays are but so many
states or conditions of the same indivisible essence.
The feeling of personal identity which we generally
experience under every state of being, would naturally
lead us to this conclusion, and the majority of phreno-
logists are of that opinion. But many entertain
very different views. The question cannot be decided
by observation. We do not know in what the essence
of matter consists, and it is far more difficult to dispel
the thick darkness which veils the essence of the mind.
At the same time the argument drawn from personal
identity is far from conclusive, as individuals have
occasionally become insane on that subject, and on no
other. Such persons lose all consciousness of their
past and proper personality, and imagine themselves
different persons altogether, while in other respects
they feel and think correctly. Now, if the feeling of
personal identity arose from the unity, indivisibility or
singleness of the essence of the mind, how could that
feeling be lost while the powers of the mind remained
entire. But if we admit that the mind consists of an
aggregate of powers, we could easily suppose that one
of these powers could supply the feeling of personal
identity, and be lost and recovered like any of the
other powers.
CLASSIFICATION OF PHRENOLOGICAL ORGANS. 69
Curious cases of this kind are on record.* They
seem to lead to the inference that the feeling of
personal identity is a primitive mental affection con-
nected with a cerebral organ, and hence liable sepa-
rately to disease. At the same time many eminent
phrenologists entertain the opposite opinion ; among
these we might mention the Rev. Dr. Welsh, who argues*
strongly for the individuality of the mind, the thoughts
and feelings of which alone, he supposes, are mani-
fested through the organs of the brain. Fortunately
in studying Phrenology we are not called upon to
decide concerning the essence of the mind. It is to
the powers and faculties of the mind only that we have
to direct our attention ;
and observation has enabled us
to decide that every primitive propensity, feeling and
intellectual power, is connected with a cerebral organ.
What the mind may be, stripped of this mortal coil,
we cannot say. We have no experience of it in that
state ; and instead of entering upon such a fruitless
speculation, it is better, as Dr. Welsh has remarked,
to follow the precept of the poet, to “ Wait the great
teacher death, and God adore.”f
Phrenologists investigate the powers of the mind in
connexion only with the brain, and thus simplify mental
philosophy by reducing it to a branch of physiological
science.
They, however, admit two great orders of mental
powers, Feelings and Intellectual Faculties. Although
usually confounded by philosophers, these twr
o kinds of
mental powers are essentially different. Man is said to
* See Medical Repository, for 1816. t See Combe’s System.
70 CLASSIFICATION OF THE
be a reasonable being, and although the observation is-
just to a certain extent, yet are all his actions the result
of reason ? Are not many of his actions such as reason
cannot approve ? Is he not frequently influenced by
feelings alone, and feelings which are purely of an in-
structive character ? Are there not such feelings as
sexual desire and parental attachment ? But are they
the result of reason ? Do we not find them in powerful
operation even in the inferior animals ? and asserting,
occasionally their independent character in man, by
rising in awful activity even when reason objects, or
is absent as in sleep ? I think we must admit this, and
if we do, we admit, at the same time, the correctness of
the phrenological classification of the mental powers into
feelings and intellect. Many are inclined to admit that;
the brain is connected in some inexplicable manner with
the purely intellectual powers, but they refer the feelings
to other organs, as the heart, liver, stomach . Hence they
speak of a good head, a bad heart. But is the heart:
the seat of the moral feelings ? If it were so, or if the *
moral feelings spring from it, or any other organ except
the brain, we would find these feelings in a higher
degree than in man, for these organs are larger and of
a finer organization in some of the mammiferous animals,
as in man. Phrenologists maintain, that all the feel--
ings have their seat in the brain, and that it is more
easy to prove the connexion between the feelings and
certain parts of the brain, than to show the connexion
between the intellect and that organ. The Feelings
have been arranged into two genera, Propensities and
Sentiments. The first are those feelings which give
impulses to act in a certain determinate manner, as the
PHRENOLOGICAL ORGANS. 71
sexual, the parental, &c. ; and the second are those
which modify the propensities, as self-love, religious
feeling, benevolence, &c. All the propensities are
feelings strictly of the animal kind, and common to man
and inferior animals. The sentiments are feelings of a
higher description. Some of them are found existing
to a certain degree, in a few of the inferior animals,
but the greater part of them are peculiar to man. The
organs of the Propensities'are situated at the posterior
and inferior part of the brain, and when such parts of
the brain are more largely developed than the others,
the individual in whom such a conformation exists, is
unfit for any thing great or noble. His happiness lies
entirely in animal gratification, and he attempts to
ttb* gratify these feelings, reckless of the peace or happi-
-~itk| ness of others.
r
The organs of the Sentiments are situated at the
lief
crown of the head, and when very fully developed,
bit impart a benignity and grandeur to the individual which
iftW
is never found in conformations of a different kind.
Keft
All artists who have studied nature know this, hence
)l
VV€ find them giving the requisite elevation to the heads
M af characters famed for moral and religious qualities.
But could they represent such a character as Shaks-
peare s Caliban with such a conformation ? If thev
did
’.
the? wouId shock our ideas of natural consistency.
:J51 Caliban could only be properly represented with
*
a
* orehead’
“ villanously low,” or if we gave him a dif-
& fere
f
conformation, we would change his character ; he
.j would no longer be Caliban. The sculptor, the por-
$
tra,t ' and historical painter, can appreciate the truth of
*1
‘ heSe obscrvations. They have studied practical
result
OiOft
ei
in ih
s as
!
%
werfbt
Win?
Hj by
te, or
,am
: iso
s into
72 CLASSIFICATION OF THE ORGANS
Phrenology, without knowing, it may be, that there if
such a science. Their works, indeed, are so man}
phrenological illustrations, and the closer they cop}
nature, the more truly phrenological they become.
The powers purely intellectual, have been arranger
by phrenologists into two kinds. 1st, The knowing, or
perceptive powers, or those faculties which enable us
to form ideas of physical objects and their qualities
and, 2ndly, The reflective powers, or those faculties b}
which we compare and judge. The organs by which
these powers are manifested, are situated in the fore-
head, and it has long ago been remarked, that with the
development of this part of the brain, the intellectua
powers are the stronger. The organs of the knowing,
faculties are situated at the lower and middle parts o:
the forehead : and those of the reflective faculties, al
the uppermost part of the forehead. We seldom find
these two great sets of organic parts equally developed.
In the majority of mankind, the lower part of the fore-
head is the larger. Hence, we find the majority ol
mankind, better adapted for observing and collecting;
facts than for reasoning correctly, or drawing just con-
clusions from the facts with which they are acquainted.
When the upper part of the forehead is the most pro-
tuberant, the individual so constituted, is fond of rea-
soning. He is apt to generalize too much. The
knowing organs being comparatively less developed,
dry facts have to him no attraction. Every fact and
every event excites his reasoning power. On a single
fact he will erect a theory. He reasons profoundly,
but his reasonings are too speculative to be useful.
When both knowing and reflecting organs are fully
fro
k
do.
in
is;
Ge
The
lad
lie i
*£1:1
®0«t
tai
toe
font:
ton!
It!'
ORGANS OF THE PROPENSITIES. 73
developed, and in nearly an equal degree, the indivi-
dual so constituted has the best possible intellectual
conformation. He gathers with avidity, knowledge
from every quarter. He reasons also profoundly, but
facts are the foundations of his reasonings and induc-
tions. Such a conformation exists in an eminent degree
in Lord Brougham ; and need I say, that his character
is such as phrenologists would expect from the confor-
mation ?
SHORT NOTIFICATION OF THE PRIMITIVE FACULTIES OF THP.
MIND AND THEIR ORGANS.
Order I—FEELINGS.
Genus I. —Propensities—Common to Man with
the lower Animals.
The organs of the propensities are situated at the
back part, at the sides, and at the base of the brain.
We might thus make a threefold division, which would
assist materially in recollecting them. Those organs
that lie fairly in the back of the head are the three fol-
lowing : —1st. Amativeness, which is situated lower-
most of the three, and which imparts a breadth and
prominency to the upper part of the neck. 2d. Philo-
progenitiveness, which lies immediately above the
former, and usually, in the female, constitutes the most
prominent part of the hind-head ; and 3d. Inhabitive-
uess, which lies immediately above the last, midway
h
74 PROPENSITIES.
between it and the part of the head where the hair
turns backwards.
1. —Amativeness.
Use. —Produces sexual love. Object:—The pro-
pagation of the species. Abuses : —Fornication, adul-
tury, incest, and other improper, illegitimate, and criminal
modes of gratification. Its inactivity produces passive
continency.
2.—Philoprogenitiveness.
’
Use : —Produces love of offspring, and affection for
young and tender beings. Object —Preservation of
offspring. Abuses :—Pampering and spoiling of chil-
dren, and excessive sorrow for their loss. When
inactive it produces carelessness for children.
3 Inhabitiveness.*
Use : —Imparts a feeling of attachment to, and a
desire of permanence in, place, and probably confers
also the power of fixing and rendering permanent our
ideas and emotions. Object:—Self-preservation in
inferior animals, as it induces them to select places
best adapted for their organization. Abuses : —Aver-
sion to the active duties of life, home sickness, a brood-
ing over morbid mental impressions.
The organs of the propensities situated at the side
of the head, extend in a line (with one exception) along
the lower part of the cranium, from philoprogenitiveness
to the outer side of the socket of the eye. Two of
* Concentrativeness Combe.
PROPENSITIES. 75
these organs lie behind the opening of the ear, two
immediately above that opening, and two before it.
The organs that lie before and behind the ear are
nearly on the same level, the one placed before the
other. The two that lie above the opening of the ear
are so disposed, that the one is placed over the other.
Adhesiveness lies by the side of Philoprogenitiveness,
and Combativeness betwixt Adhesiveness and the open-
ing of the ear. Of the two situated exactly over the
opening of the ear, the lower one is Destructiveness,
which is surmounted by Secretiveness. Immediately
before Destructiveness we find Acquisitiveness and
still farther forward, and a little lower, near the outer
part of the eye in the temples, we find Constructiveness.
4.
—Adhesiveness.
Use:—Attachment to persons. Object : —Friend-
ship and society arise from it. Abuses : —Attachment
to worthless or improper persons ; inconsolable grief
for the loss of a friend. Its inactivity produces care-
lessness about others.
5.
—Combativeness.
Use :—Tendency to oppose and attack. Object —
Defence, intrepidity, courage. Abuses :—Love of
disputation and contention, quarrelsomeness. Its in-
activity predisposes to peaceableness, and aversion to
wrangling.
6.
—Destructiveness.
Use : —Tendency to destroy. Object —The de-
struction of whatever is noxious for self-preservation,
76 PROPENSITIES.
and the killing of inferior animals for food. Abuses :
Irascibility, cruelty, murder, tendency to torment, harsh-
ness, severity, &c. Its inactivity gives rise to passive
meekness.
7. —Secretiveness.
Use :—To conceal our thoughts or actions from
others. Object —To prevent our involuntary thoughts
and emotions from being exposed to public view.
Abuses:— Quizzing, cunning, deceitfulness, lying, &e.
When inactive,
it predisposes to simplicity of man-
ners.
8.
—Acquisitiveness.
Use:—The tendency or desire to acquire. Ob-
ject: —To provide for future wants. Abuses:—Exces-
sive worldly-mindedness, selfishness, avarice, theft,
&c. Its inactivity leads to a carelessness for pro-
perty.
«
9.
—Constructiveness.
Use:—Imparts the desire and tendency to con-
struct. Object:—To induce all endowed with the
feeling to protect themselves from the inclemencies of
the weather, and from other dangers. Abuses :
Construction of whatever may have an injurious ten-
dency, or any thing from improper motives.
The organs of the Propensities that lie in the base
of the brain are beyond the reach of observation in the
living subject ;
accordingly, phrenologists have not yet
arrived at any decided conclusion regarding the tune-
OIIGANS-OF THE SENTIMENTS. 77
tion of these organs. Some suppose that the organ of
the love of life is situated in some part of the middle
lobe—an opinion, we conceive, at best only probable.
It is more than probable, however, that the instinct for
food emanates through some other part of the inferior
surface of the middle lobe. This instinct has been
denominated Gustativeness, or Alimentiveness, which,
when large, imparts a swell to the head at the tempo-
ral arches before and a little below the opening of the
ear. In the phrenological busts it is marked with a
cross.
Gustativeness.
Use : —Imparts the desire for food. Object.—To
enable the animal to select food best adapted for its
organization. Abuses :—Inordinate desire for the
pleasures of the table, gluttony, drunkenness. Its in-
activity disposes to temperance in eating and drinking.
Genus II. Sentiments.
The organs of the Sentiments are situated in the
superior region of the brain, and, when large, impart
both a breadth and elevation to that region of the
head. Their exact situation must be learned from the
bust. It may be stated, however, that these organs are
all double, as in every other part of the brain •
but
that those in the middle line of this region, from their
proximity, (although in different hemispheres of the
brain,) are figured on the busts as if they were single.
Four of these organs lie along the middle line of the
head, and when examined from behind forward, hold
the following order 1st. Self-esteem, which lies far-
78 NATURE OF THE SENTIMENTS.
thest back, and immediately before and above In-
habitiveness. 2d. Firmness. 3d. Veneration, which
corresponds with a line drawn over the crown from the
one ear to the other. 4th. Benevolence, which extends
from the last-mentioned to the upper part of the fore-
head. By the sides of these the other organs of the
sentiments are found allocated in the following man-
ner : —By the side of Self-esteem we find the Love of
Approbation ; and by the side of this last, and a little
more anteriorly, the organ of Cautiousness, which
corresponds with the centre of ossification of the pari-
etal bone, and a certain distance around that point.
By the side of Firmness, Conscientiousness is situated.
By the side of Veneration, Hope and Wonder are
found. Lying a little to the side, and stretching far-
ther forwards than Hope, and bjr
the side of Benevo-
lence, we find Imitation; and at the outer and lower
margin of which Ideality is found, bounded in front by
Wit.
The organs of the Sentiments differ from those of
the Propensities, not only in situation, but in function.
The Sentiments are feelings of a refined kind, the
exercise of which is accompanied with an emotion ;
but no emotion attends the exercise of the Propensi-
ties. The Sentiments have been simply arranged into
—1st. Sentiments common to man, with some of the
lower animals; and, 2d. Those proper to man.
Some have viewed it as a prostitution of the term
Sentiment, to apply it to any instinctive power of an
inferior animal. But there are gradations in inferior
animals. The higher of these animals display feelings
of a less gross kind, and which, in a more exalted
SENTIMENTS. 79
state, form an important feature in humanity. The
sentiments which exist in some of the higher inferior
animals, are in a simple and weak state ; but in man
they burn with a brilliancy that imparts a warmth and
lustre to his moral nature.*
1. Sentiments common to Man and some Animals.
1 0. —Self-Esteem.
Use:—Imparts a love of self. Object: —To enable
man to prize, and to turn to the greatest advantage,
all his powers. Abuses: —Egotism, conceit, pride,
disdain, love of power. Its inactivity disposes to hu-
mility.
11 . —Love of Approbation.
Use:—Desire of the good opinion of others. Ob-
ject:—To induce that conduct in man which will ren-
der him generally agreeable or pleasing to society.
Emulation arises from it. Abuses .-—Excessive thirst
for praise, vanity, f ambition, &c. Disregard of the
good opinion of others arises from its inactivity.
* Aristotle asserts, that a part of divinity is bestowed on man only
of “ all animals,” but afterwards modifies the expression, and says, “ or
most of all animals.” See Part. Animal, 1. ii. c. 10, as quoted by Dr.
Elliotson in his Human Physiology.
f The following contrast of the proud and the vain man, drawn by
Gall, affords a beautiful proof of the philosophic acumen and literary
taste of the founder of the phrenological system : —
“ The proud man is imbued with a sentiment of his own superior
merit, and from the summit of his grandeur treats with contempt or
indifference all other mortals ;
the vain man attaches the utmost im-
portance to the opinions entertained of him by others, and seeks with
eagerness to gain their approbation. The proud man expects that man-
80 SENTIMENTS.
12.
—Cautiousness.
Use:—To impart fear. Object:—To induce a ten-
dency to shun the dangers and evils with which we are
surrounded. It forms an essential element in a circum-
spect and prudent character. Abuses:—Cowardice,
unfounded apprehension, despondency, melancholy,
&c. Its inactivity produces absence of fear.
13.
—Benevolence.
Use: —It imparts the desire of the welfare of others.
Object:—Places man in relation with other sentient
beings, and conduces much to their enjoyment and
happiness. Abuses:—Prodigality, profusion, too great
a facility of temper. Its inactivity predisposes to ne-
glect of charitable objects.
II. Sentiments proper to Man.
The organs of such sentiments do not exist in the
inferior animals. These organs, therefore, are charac-
teristic of humanity, and impart feelings of morality and
religion. They give elevation and dignity to our
moral nature, and fit us for the purest pleasures and
the noblest destinies.
14.—Veneration.
Use : —To impart the tendency to respect or vene-
kind will come to him and acknowledge his merit j
the vain man knocks
at every door to draw attention to him, and supplicates for the smallest
portion of honour. The proud man despises these marks of distinction
which on the vain confer the most perfect delight. The proud man is
disgusted with indiscreet eulogiums ; the vain man inhales with ecstasy
the increase of flattery, although profusely offered and by no very skil-
ful hand.”
SENTIMENTS. 81
rate. Object:—To hold men, as members of society,
in bonds of closer fellowship, and forms an essential in-
gredient in religious devotion. Abuses:—Servility to
superiors in rank or authority, love of the antiquated,
superstitious awe. The inactivity of the organ pro-
duces want of respect to men, and coldness in religious
exercises.
15.—Firmness.
Use:—Imparts fortitude. Object:—Enables us
to bear up under evils and misfortunes which cannot
be avoided or overcome. Abuses :—Obstinacj% infa-
tuation. Its inactivity produces feebleness of purpose,
fickleness, and inconstancy.
16. —Conscientiousness.
Use-—Imparts a desire for justice. Object:—It
fits men for respecting the rights of each other, and
forms them for social intercourse. Abuses:—Exces-
sive refinement in our views of duty, remorse for
actions which are innocent or of no moment. Its in-
activity leads to forgetfulness of duty.
17. — Hope.
Use: Imparts the expectation of future good.
Object: —It induces men to look beyond the present
moment, and anticipate and prepare for futurity. It
is an important element in faith. Abuses:—credulity,
absurd expectation, love of scheming. Its inactivity
produces a carelessness of the future.
82 SENTIMENTS.
18.
—Wonder.
Use:—Imparts the love of Novelty. Object:—In-
duces an interest and delight in what is new or extra-
ordinary, and thus acts as a stimulant to the knowing
and reflecting powers. Abuses:—Love of the marvel-
lous, belief in witchcraft, ghosts, or in any thing super-
natural. Its inactivity produces a disrelish of the
marvellous, and predisposes to a preference of the pro-
bable and real.
19.
—Ideality.
Use:—Imparts the love of the beautiful and sub-
lime. Object: —It leads us to appreciate the indescrib-
able beauties of the works of nature, and to pant after*
superior excellence in works of art. It is an essential
element in poetry and other departments of the fine
arts. Abuses:—Excess of enthusiasm, preference of
the gaudy and glaring to the useful : tendency for the
imagination to carry captive the judgment. Its inac-
tivity produces a homeliness of character.
20.—Wit.
Use: —Imparts the feeling of the ludicrous, and
forms an essential element in the mental constitution
of such geniuses as Shakspeare, Rabelais, Voltaire, or
Cervantes.
21.—Imitation.
Use:—Imparts the desire and capability of imita-
tion. Object: —To assist in expressing with more
effect the natural language of all our faculties, and
enable us to imitate works of nature and of art.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 83
Abuses : —Slavish imitation of others. Its inactivity
produces mannerism.
Order II. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus I. External Senses.
SIGHT, HEARING, SMELL, TASTE, TOUCH.
Uses : —To bring the animal that possesses them in
communication with the external world.
That all our ideas are derived from the external senses
is one of the oldest opinions in philosophy. That these
organs of the senses are great inlets to knowledge cannot
be doubted ; but it is quite clear that the organs them-
selves merely receive impressions—they do not form
ideas ; for the formation of ideas the impressions must be
transmitted farther than the senses. Physiologists now
agree that such impressions are transmitted to the brain,
which is said to be the common sensorium, and that the
mind there takes cognizance of the impression, or, in
other words, forms an idea. According to this view, then,
the brain is admitted to be necessary to the formation
of ideas, else why should the mind not be affected by
the organ of sensation without the intervention of the
brain. The brain is necessary, then, for the origin of
all our ideas, even according to this principle, and the
question naturally suggests itself, whether is it more pro-
bable that the same portions of cerebral matter should
be the parts through which different kinds of ideas should
be formed, or that different portions of the brain should
84 THE FOREHEAD.
be allotted for this purpose. The brain is admitted to
be necessary in some way or other to the elaboration
of every idea. This is a conclusion which cannot be
denied. It is as capable of demonstration as any fact
in physiolog3r
,
ar, d it has already been demonstrated.
Now, with this admitted fact fully before us, whether
is it, a priori, more likely that the same parts should
elaborate different kinds of ideas, or that for the forma-
tion of every different kind of idea there should be a
different part ? Take it any way the anti-phrenologists
choose, the probability is against them. If they admit
that the brain is the material organ of the mind, they
admit that the mind cannot think without that organ,
even though the external senses are perfect, and as the
powers of the mind are various and different, it is more
than probable that each power has a particular cerebral
part for its manifestation.
The Forehead.
The organs situated in the forehead have been a
stumbling-block to the unobservant. Such individuals
cannot conceive that so many organs could be con-
gregated in so small a space. But the convolutions of
the brain are there equally numerous ;
and a little study
will enable any one to become acquainted with the
situation of all the organs. To facilitate our acquaint-
ance with this interesting part of Phrenology, we may
view the forehead as consisting of three ranges of
organs—a lower, a middle, and a higher. In the
lower and middle, the organs of the knowing faculties
are situated ;
and in the highest, those of the reflect-
ing. With three exceptions, the organs of the facul-
SITUATION OF THE ORGANS OF INTELLECT. 85
ties that perceive the existence and qualities of exter-
nal objects are situated in the lower range, side by-
side, and in the following order:—1st. Individuality,
which is situated between the eyebrows and over the
root of the nose, and Form, Size, Weight, Colour, in
immediate succession along the course of the eyebrow
—Form lying rather at the side of the root of the nose
than in the eyebrow, and the others corresponding
with about the two inner or nasal thirds of the eyebrow
or orbitary arch.
The organs that perceive the relations of external
objects, are situated partly in the lower range, but
principally in the middle one. Three of such organs
only are situated in the lower range. These are
Order, Number, and Language ; the two first men-
tioned occupying the outer third of the arch of the
eyebrow order by the side of colour, and number
still nearer the temples at the extremity of the orbitary
arch, rounding off the arch and descending a little by
the side of the eye. Language is situated behind all
the organs of the lowest range, over the back part of
the roof of the orbit or socket of the eye, and is be-
yond the reach of observation ; but as it rests upon the
back part of the roof of the orbit, it depresses the part
of bone upon which it rests, and thus protrudes, more
or less, the eyeball itself. We look, therefore, to the
prominence of the eye for the sign of the size of the
organ.
The knowing organs of relation are situated in the
middle range of the forehead ; Eventuality immedi-
ately above Individuality, in the very middle of the
i
86 KNOWING FACULTIES.
forehead ; and locality, time, and tune, extending in
succession outwards, in the order now mentioned, to
the temples.
The organs of the Reflective Faculties surmount all
the others in the forehead ; Comparison in the middle
immediately above Eventuality, and Causality by the
side of Comparison, and bounded towards the temples
by Wit.
Genus II. —Knowing Faculties which perceive
the Existence and Qualities of external
Objects.
22.—Individuality.
Use:—Imparts the power of observing and remem-
bering specific individual existences, without refer-
ence to the uses, qualities, or relations of such exis-
tences. It is an indispensable ingredient in a genius
for physical science.
23 Form.
Use —Imparts the talent of observing and remem-
bering the configuration of bodies, and is necessary to
the successful cultivation of many of the imitative arts.
24.—Size.
Use:—Enables us to observe and remember the
dimensions of bodies.
25.—Weight.
Use:—Gives the talent of appreciating, observing,
KNOWING FACULTIES. 87
and remembering the resistance and momentum of
bodies, and forms an essential element in the genius
for mechanics.
26—Colour.
Use : —Communicates the talent of perceiving and
remembering colours, and is essential to the painter,
and all in whom a nice discrimination of colour is re-
quired.
Genus III. Knowing Faculties which perceive
the Relations of external Objects.
27. —Locality.
Use : —Imparts the power of observing and remem-
bering the relative position of bodies ; is essential to
the landscape painter, topographer, geographer, astro-
nomer, and surgical anatomist, and those requiring a
nice discrimination of the relative position of things.
28.—Number.
Use: Confers the power of observing and remem-
bering the number of objects; imparts the talent of
calculation ;
is indispensable to a genius for arithmetic,
algebra, logarithms, and all sciences conversant with
simple numbers.
29—Order.
Use: Communicates the talent of observing and
remembering the arrangement of objects, and confers
an aptitude for methodical arrangement.
88 R EFI.ECT1NG FACULTIES.
30 —Eventuality.
Use : —Imparts the powi?r of observing and remem-
bering events or occurrences of every kind, and con-
duces to the talent of practical detail in the affairs of life.
31.
—Time.
Use : —To enable us to perceive and remember
duration, or the relation which one thing bears to an-
other in time. It forms an element in the musical talent.
32.
—Tune.
Use : —Imparts the power of perceiving and remem-
bering melody. The musical ear depends upon it; and
without which, however acute the organ of hearing
may be, no musical talent can exist.
33. —Language.
Use : —The power of perceiving and remembering
the signs of our ideas. It takes cognizance both of
natural and artificial language, and forms an element
in the philological talent.
Genus IV.—Reflecting Faculties which com-
pare, JUDGE, AND DISCRIMINATE.
These are the highest faculties of the mind, and
which pre-eminently distinguish man from the inferior
animals, and enable him to control and mould to his
will with facility and power the whole of the animal
creation.*
* “Sanctius his animal mentisque capacius altio
Deerat adhuc, et quod dominari in cetera possit,
Natus est homo.”
SIZE AN ELEMENT OF POWER. 89
34. —Comparison.
Use : —Gives the power of discovering resem-
blances, differences, analogies, either among things or
ideas, and disposes to the use of figurative language.
35. —Causality.
Use :—To trace the relation between cause and
effect, and the dependencies of phenomena. It im-
parts a clear conception of logical consequences, and
constitutes the principal element in the talent for
abstract and metaphysical speculation.
Phrenologists calculate the power of the organs
of the brain by their size, and when the organs are
large, no difficulty can be experienced in discover-
ing them. But is size the only indication of power in
an organ ? by no means ; size is one condition of an
organ and a most important one, but phrenologists
also take into account the activity of the part ; the
opponents of phrenology forget this, and hence the
errors into which they fall ; they will tell you that with
phrenologists, size is every thing ; they will then bid you
look at the fleetness and bottom of a race horse, com-
pared with the slow and clumsy movements of the
gigantic and unwieldy cart horse, and ask triumphantly
if size is of any consequence ? but the example now
referred to is not a fair one ; the race horse is of a dif-
ferent breed from the cart horse ; all its parts, inde-
pendently of its muscles, conspire to give it fleetness ;
Or to use the words of.Milton, when referring to the creation of man—
“ Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall,
God-like erect, with native honour clad,
In naked majesty, seemed lords of all.”
90 A SMALL BKAIN THE CAUSE OF IDIOCY.
but to place the subject fairly before us, vve ought to
compare the effects of size, in two individuals of the
same hind; if we see two cart horses of very unequal
size, are we not certain that the larger one is most
powerful? and do we not know that among race horses,
those in which certain muscles are developed in a
greater degree than others, are always the speediest ?
Among men the same law holds good ;
pugilists know
that a man of ten stones weight, can never be a match
for one of fifteen stones. The man of fifteen stones
may indeed, from disease or certain other causes, be
weaker than the other, but this can never prove that
size is of no consequence ; for, all things being equal,
the larger man will necessarily be stronger than the
smaller. This remark applies to every organ of bod)',
and why should the brain* be viewed as an exception ?
* “ Willis has described the brain of a young man imbecile from
birth ;
its volume was scarcely one-fifth part of that of an ordinary hu-
man brain. M. Bonn, professor at Amsterdam, has two little crania
of idiots, and the brain of an imbecile who reached his twenty-fifth year,
and was so stupid that he was shown for money as an African savage,
&c. I have observed heads equally small in many living idiots from
birth. All these crania and heads are thirteen or fourteen inches in
circumference, and eleven or twelve inches from the root of the nose to
the occipital foramen. With from fourteen to seventeen inches in
circumference, and from about ten or twelve from the root of the nose
to the occipital foramen, we have more or less stupidity—a more or less
complete incapacity to fix the attention upon one object—uncertain or
transitory feelings and passions—confusion of ideas. Heads ofeighteen
or eighteen and a half inches in circumference are still small, although
they permit a regular exercise of the faculties ; they possess but a sad
mediocrity of talent—a spirit of servile imitation—an extreme defi-
ciency of seizing the relationship between cause and effect—a want of
self-government, and often few desires. Still some qualities or faculties
may be considerable, because particular organs may be greatly develop-
ed, forming a striking contrast with the mediocrity of the rest. But as
we approach large brains, wc see intellectual faculties of greater mag-
THE TEMPERAMENTS. 91
In calculating the power of an organ, activity or
internal state as well as size is attended to, and this
must be particularly remembered in calculating the
power of the cerebral organs. The activity of an
organ may depend upon a variety of causes—on origi-
nal organization or temperament,* on health, on exer-
nitude, till we arrive at heads twenty-one or twenty-two inches in cir-
cumference—the dimensions at which men obtain the height of intelli-
gence.”—See Gall, Vol. I., p. 196, and Vol. II., p. 322.
* In endeavouring to ascertain the activity of the intellectual powers
in any given case, the temperament of the individual should be care-
fully noted. The term temperament is another word for original con-
stitution, and although theoonstitutionsof men vary with the individual,
and consequently vary ad infinitum ; yet it has been found practicable
to reduce the temperaments of men into a few divisions. Phrenologists
generally admit only of four primary or fundamental temperaments,
viz. ; 1st, The nervous ;
2d, The sanguineous ;
3d, The bilious ;
and
4th, The lymphatic. In some individuals the temperaments are pure,
in others they are mixed,
and the mixture may exist in various de-
grees. The nervous, for example, may exist with the sanguineous, or
with the bilious, or with the lymphatic ; or, there may be a mixture
of any three of the temperaments, or, a mixture in various degrees of
all the four. The pure or unmixed temperaments may be thus de.
cribed.
The nervous temperament is indicated by delicacy and irritability of
frame. The skin is soft and fine, and not thickly covered with hair ;
the muscles and bones rather slender, and the muscular motions quick
and lively.
The sanguineous temperament is indicated by a florid complexion,
blue eyes, light hair. The skin soft, the superficial veins large, the
pulse full and frequent, and the body round and plump.
The bilious temperament is known by a complexion of a swarthy or
leaden hue, dark eyes, coarse black or brown lank hair, siow pulse. The
bones are large, the muscles wiry, and the countenance sombre and
melancholy.
The lymphatic temperament is distinguished by light hair, light or
grey eyes, a pallid complexion. A weak soft pulse, a cold skin, and a
torpid state of all the functions. The countenance is soft, heavy, and
unmeaning. Of these temperaments the nervous imparts quickness of
mental manifestation; the sanguineous energy ;
the bilious durability;
92 ACTIVITY OF THE ORGANS.
cise. All these circumstances operate on corporeal
organs of every kind, and there is besides one which
is peculiar to the cerebral—the mutual influence of
these organs. Exercise alone has a wonderful influ-
ence in affecting the power of an organ. We observe
this every day in the muscular system. A muscle
when kept for some time in a state of inactivity becomes
soft and flabby, and incapable of energetic contraction,
but let the same muscle be inured to regular exercise,
it becomes firmer and redder, and much more power-
ful. Such is an exemplification of activity in contra-
distinction to size, in an organ of motion. But may
not mental exercise affect in some way the organization
of the brain? It is possible that it may render it
denser by the greater quantity of blood which is carried
to the brain during the process of thinking, and we
may have thus actual power imparted, although no
increase of size be discoverable. But the energy or
activity of an organ can only be imparted in this way
to a limited degree ; and consequently, where great
power is wanted great size is indispensable. This ob-
servation applies to every other organ of the body,
and why should we suppose that the organs of the
brain are exceptions to the general law ?
It is a common but very erroneous opinion, that all
brains, or what is the same thing, that all heads are
alike. The heads of men differ as much as their faces ;
and all know that two faces have never yet been found
perfectly alike. The varieties of form in the human
and the lymphatic torpidity ;
circumstances which must never be for-
gotten in estimating the character of any individual.
DIVERSITY OF FORM IN HEADS. 93
head are, indeed, infinite; hence we can easily explain
the infinite diversity of character that exists in society.
Compare the heads of members of the same family,
and amidst the family resemblances which exist in all,
you will be astonished at the striking individual differ-
ences. Compare, again, any one of these with others
of a different family, and you will not only perceive
the difference, but be able to say in what the difference
consists. If you extend, then, your sphere of observa-
tion, you will soon be convinced that there are national
as well as family peculiarities. The English head can
easily be distinguished from the French head, and the
French and German from the Turkish or any other.
All travellers admit this ; and the numerous collection
of sculls and casts of the heads of individuals of differ-
ent nations which now exist, has set the matter at rest.
There can be no doubt, then, that there are individual,
family, and national peculiarities of head, and are we
to suppose that these differences of form are unproduc-
tive of differences of character ? Glance for a moment
at the forms of the Caucasian, Mongolian and Ethio-
pian heads, and then endeavour to draw such a con-
clusion. To what conclusion would the history of these
varieties of mankind lead regarding the forms of their
heads? Would it lead a phrenologist to the conclu-
sion, that the form of the negro head is as fine as that
of the Caucasian ? By no means. History tells us
that the Ethiopian has always been in a state of ex-
treme barbarism,* while the Caucasian varieties have
* Individual instances exist among the negro tribes of exalted
moral and intellectual endowments, but these are exceptions, and are
uniformly accompanied with superior development of the brain,.
94 NATIONAL VARIETIES OF HEAD.
uniformly displayed high intellectual powers, and from
time immemorial been the promoters and depositaries
of human knowledge. The doctrines of Phrenology
would lead at once to the conclusion, that the Ethio- •
pian head must be greatly different in form, greatly
defective, compared with the Caucasian. We know,
indeed, that the negro head approaches to the monkey
form, and that the negro brain is less developed than
that of the Caucasian ;
that the anterior lobes are
strikingly defective, and that consequently no circum-
stances short of an entire change of cerebral form,
could make the negro equal to the Caucasian. There
is an endless variety of form in the human head, and !
to satisfy himself on this point, the reader might first
consult the writings of Cuvier, and particularly the
first volume of his Animal Kingdom, in which the
forms of the heads of the three grand varieties of man-
kind are particularly described ; then he might turn to
Blumenbach’s plates of the crania of different nations.
Having thus satisfied himself that there are national
varieties of head, let him direct his attention to those
of his own nation—to those that surround him. Let
him more particularly observe the heads of different
families, and after he has familiarized his mind with
such diversities of form, he will then be prepared to
observe and distinguish the peculiarities of form that
appertain to the heads of members of the same family
for amidst the family resemblances which always more
or less exist, he will uniformly find decided and pal-
pable differences.
The student, of Phrenology should not only acquire
a knowledge of the individual organs and their functions,
COMBINATION OF ORGANS. 95
but he should frequently view them in combination,
and calculate the effects of the combination of organs
in the formation of character. This is one of the
deepest subjects connected with Phrenology. We
can only wait to notice the manner in which the subject
should be investigated. In estimating the character
of an individual, the student should first observe the
relative proportions of the Propensities, Sentiments,
Knowing and Reflecting intellect. If any of these grand
divisions greatly predominate, no difficulty will be
experienced in arriving at a decided general conclu-
sion. If the Propensities exclusively predominate,
brutality of conduct will be the result ; if the Senti-
ments alone bear the sway, the amiable qualities will
abound ; if the Knowing organs are in similar circum-
stances, talents of observation will be the consequence ;
and should the Reflecting organs be exclusively deve-
loped, the person so constituted will be deemed a vision-
ary. After he has thus examined the great outlines
of the head, the student should next observe which of
the organs are largest in one or more of the above
subdivisions, for a direction will be given to such
organ or organs from the more predominating regions
of the brain. For example, if the basilary region be
very large, although one of the sentiments be well
developed, that sentiment will receive a hue and tinc-
ture from the predominance of the propensities, and
even all the knowing and reflecting powers will bend in
these circumstances under the dominion of the propen-
sities, or run in the direction of these lower powers.
When the coronal region is high, and one of the pro-
pensities, such as destructiveness, large, the lower
96 COMBINATION OF ORGANS.
organ will be robbed of its fierceness, and modified by
the softening and benign influences of the superior
powers. The intellect, under these circumstances, is
drawn as by a celestial influence to direct its energies
so as to gratify these sublime feelings of our nature.
When the intellect again is large, and the propensities
and sentiments small, energy and fine feeling are with-
drawn, and a mental constitution formed, but ill adapted
for this “ breathing world.” The intellect requires the
impelling power of the propensities and sentiments even
to do justice to itself, and the propensities and senti-
ments equally require the guidance of enlightened
intellect. The best combination is that in which all
the regions of the head are equally and well developed,
or if any region should predominate, it is that of the
Sentiments, as these impart moral and religious disposi-
tions, which conduce more to the well-being of man
than Intellect itself.
In estimating the character of any individual, we
should note also the relative size of each of the organs,
and calculate the influence which they reciprocally have
upon each other. This is b}r
far the most difficult part
of the subject, and for the performance of which no
rules can be condescended upon. It must be left to
the sagacity of the student, and can only be accom-
plished by high intellectual endowments.
Phrenology, it has been said, cannot be true, because
it leads to materialism, and thus undermines the prin-
ciples of morality and religion. It is to be regretted
that the opponents of phrenology should have recourse
to such a subterfuge in shape of argument—a subterfuge
that savours so much of ignorance and bigotry. Phreno-
PHRENOLOGY LEADS NOT TO MATERIALISM. 97
logy leads to no such conclusion. The venerable
founders of the system disclaim such an inference, and
many able and enlightened ministers of religion rank
amongst its champions, and who would be the last to
advocate any doctrine that would lead to such a con-
clusion. We all admit that the eye is the organ of
vision, and that without the eye the mind cannot see.
But do we allow that the belief of such a doctrine leads
to materialism? Certainly not. We all admit that
the mind may exist after the eye is destroyed, although
it cannot see without such an organ ; so we admit that
the essence of the mind may exist after the brain is
destroyed, although that organ is necessary in the pre-
sent state of things for the mental manifestation. It is
not Phrenology, but the contrary doctrine that leads to
a dangerous conclusion. The anti-phrenologist cannot
account for mental aberration of any kind without
assuming a principle that leads to a most appalling
conclusion. In insanity, for example, he says the
mind is deranged. But can the mind become so
affected ? Can that pure ethereal being, that emana-
tion of Deity itself, that incomprehensible existence
whose aspirations rise above all sublunary things, and
whose desires are as boundless as eternity—can that
being become deranged ? If we answer this question
in the affirmative, we state in so many words that the
mind can become diseased, and if liable to disease it
clearly follows that it may die. But Phrenology leads
to no such conclusion. Phrenology draws a broad
line of demarcation between the organ of the mind
and the mind itself, and it is obvious that what may be
predicated of the one does not necessarily apply to the
x
98 INSANITY A
other. There is nothing in Phrenology at variance
with the consoling doctrine of the mind’s immortality ;
for though the organ of the mind perish, the mind it-
self may not only survive, but even, (to use the words
of Addison,)
“ Flourish in immortal youth,
Unhurt amid the war of elements,
The wreck of matter, and the crash of worlds.”
CHAPTER VI.
On Insanity—Proximate Cause corporeal—Corporeal Agents produce
it—Insanity hereditary—Different Kinds of Insanity—Principles of
Treatment.
If Phrenology is true it should explain the pheno-
mena of mind both in a state of health and disease.
Now, it is well known, that it can afford this explana-
tion. Insanity in all its forms is dependent on a
peculiar condition of the brain, and the establishment
of this fact will argue strongly in favour of Phrenology.
If insanity is a disease of the mind itself, as many sup-
pose, then Phrenology has no foundation in nature ; or
if it be attributable to the direct influence of demons,
as was long believed and inculcated, then Phrenology
is little better than a dream, and medical science neces-
sarily as inefficacious in the treatment of such disease
as the divining rod of the enchanter. But to obviate
such conclusions, such absurdities, it must be said, it
is only necessary to show that insanity in all its forms
is dependent on certain corporeal states—that insanity
CORPOREAL DISEASE. 99
is a corporeal disease, and may be curable or incurable
according to the circumstances of the case, like every
other corporeal disorder, it is scarcely possible to form
an idea of a disease purely intellectual. Every disease
with which we are acquainted depends upon some
structural derangement of the organ affected. There
is no disease purely functional. The function of an
organ depends altogether on the structure ; and to
speak of the function of an organ being affected with-
out a previous change of some kind in the structure, is
fraught with the greatest absurdity, it is to contend
that the function may exist without the structure ; or,
in other words, that an effect may exist without its
cause. Now, in diseases of the mind, is the structure
of the mind affected ? is there any thing that can be
called structure in the mind ? has the mind parts and
proportions? For, unless it has parts to be affected,
how could a disease exist? Many who speak of a
disease of the mind, contend also for the mind’s ethe-
reality and indestructibility ; but are not the two
opinions obviously at variance ? If the mind is liable
to disease, it is also liable to die ; and are all those
who contend for the existence of mental disease, pre-
pared to impugn the consoling doctrine of the soul’s
immortality ? Phrenologists, at least, do not acquiesce
in such a proposition. Phrenologists maintain that in
insanity, the corporeal instrument of the mind alone
is affected ; and they conceive what may be predicated
of the organ is not necessarily applicable to the agent
that uses the organ.
That insanity is a corporeal disease may be deduced
from the following considerations :
—first, agents that
100 INSANITY A
produce their effects upon the body only, produce it.
Every thing that affects the organization of the brain,
either directly or indirectly, influences the manifesta-
tion of the mind ; a blow which depresses a portion
of the skull annihilates for a time the power of think-
ing, and the elevation of the broken piece of cranium
restores the mind to its wonted powers ; inflammation
of the brain is uniformly attended with delirium, and
with the removal of the inflammation the delirium
I
ceases ; insanity may also be induced by the improper
use of intoxicating liquors ;
aliments and drinks have
an influence on the morals—many medicines have the
same effects : now, do not these agents act only on the
body ; do aliments or medicines act on the mind ? No ;
they act only on the corporeal organization, and hence
those peculiar states of the mind that are induced are
dependent on the corporeal condition.
Secondly. Insanity is a hereditary disease. The
hereditary nature of insanity is a fact so obvious and
generally admitted, as scarcely to require either illus-
tration or proof. If proof were demanded, I would
refer not only to the opinion of mankind generally,
but to men whose days and nights have been devoted
to the investigation of the disease, and who are unani-
mously of opinion that it may be transmitted from
generation to generation. In corroboration of this
view Haslem relates ten cases, to one only of which we
shall at present advert. In detailing the history of an
inmate of a madhouse, he says, that the patient’s
grandfather was mad, but that there was no insanity in
his grandmother’s family, lhe father of the patient
was occasionally melancholic, and had one raving
HEREDITARY DISEASE. 101
paroxysm—his mother’s family were sane. The same
patient had a brother and five sisters —now, mark the
effect of the disease upon them : his brother, Haslem
says, has been confined in a madhouse, and all his
sisters have been insane —with the three youngest the
disease came on at parturition. It is also well known
that the longer insanity has existed in any family, and
the greater the number of generations that have been
affected, the more liable is the disease to appear.
Fodere has observed, that among Cretins children of
the first generation are only a little disposed to the
disease, but if such children intermarry with other
Cretins, it appears much more frequently ; and if three
generations of such children consecutively intermarry,
the disease, he says, is a certain and inevitable event.
In the same proportion, he informs us, the probability
of hereditary insanity lessens by intermarrying succes-
sively with healthy persons. These are facts with
which all are familiar ; but if they prove any thing
they prove the corporeal nature of the disease in ques-
tion. They cannot be explained by referring the dis-
ease to the mind itself; for, is the immaterial and im-
mortal existence we denominate mind transmitted by
generation ? if we are not assured on this point, we
cannot be certain that peculiarities of mind can be so
transmitted. It is an incontestable fact, however, that
corporeal peculiarities may be transmitted by genera-
tion. Gout, scrofula, phthisis, apoplexy, are heredi-
tary diseases ; the stomach, heart, lungs, liver, brain,
and every other organ, participate of inheritance. Wc
can distinguish family brains as well as family feet,
family hands, and family faces ; and when peculiarities
102 INSANITY ARISES UNIFORMLY
of talent and disposition display themselves in certain
families, and are transmitted from father to son through
a series of generations, is it not more just and philoso-
phical to ascribe these to the peculiarities of the cor-
poreal organs which can undoubtedly be transmitted,
than to some peculiarities of the intellectual principle
with the nature of which we are totally ignorant ? But
it is not by reasoning only that we deduce the corpo-
real nature of insanity. We see it arising from causes
which produce other corporeal complaints, and pre-
senting symptoms which every one must admit have a
reference to corporeal organs only. These symptoms
are headach, pain over the eyes, stricture and numb-
ness across the forehead, dizziness, noise in the ears,
and dilatation or contraction of the pupils of the eye ;
symptoms which, though no other existed, would lead
every medical man to suspect a morbid condition of the
brain; and, after death, is that condition not found?
Were we to answer this question simply in the affirma-
tive, or bid you rely upon the authority of some eminent
phrenologist whose opinion we could cite, you might
be inclined to receive the enunciation with that dis-
trust which any ex parte statement naturally carries
along with it. But to place the subject most impar-
tially before you, we would refer to the work of Dr.
Abercromby on the diseases of the brain—one of the
latest and ablest works upon the subject. Dr. Aber-
cromby is no phrenologist, yet his work is calculated
to do Phrenology some service. The dissection of 133
cases is given in that work ;
and, with the exception of
two or three obscure cases from which no conclusion
can be drawn, they lead irresistibly to the conclusion.
FROM DISEASE OF THE BRAIN. 103
that disease of the brain is uniformly attended with
mental alienation, and mental alienation with cerebral
disease. In all these cases, the cerebral disease and
mental affection hold the relationship of cause and
effect ; and were our experience on this subject greater
than it is, we could infer from the state of the mind
the precise state or condition of the cerebral organ.
From reasoning and observation, then, the proxi-
mate cause of insanity must be considered as corporeal.
The mind, in this state, is no more diseased than in
the derangement of the five senses or of the organs of
voluntary motion. In all diseases of the organs of
sensation, the proximate cause is not looked for beyond
the corporeal organs. In palsy, cramp, tetanus, &c.,
the cause is not looked for in the mind, but in the in-
struments by which the will is propagated and volun-
tary motion produced. Ought we not to reason in the
same manner regarding the internal organs ? Indeed,
too much attention has been paid to the moral and
metaphysical causes of insanity ; while the corporeal,
unquestionably more within the sphere of our observa-
tion and comprehension, have been overlooked—almost
totally neglected. If insanity is a disease purely men-
tal, it should be cured by reasoning ; but will ratioci-
nation effect a cure? If so, why should medical
men interfere ? Should not the insane rather be
intrusted to the divine and metaphysician as for-
merly ; but who would be so foolish as trust a serious
case of insanity to this mode of treatment ? “ The
gooil effects, says Haslem, whose practical knowledge
of insanity was very extensive, “ the good effects
which have resulted from exhibiting logic as a remedy
104 MORAL TREATMENT OF INSANITY.
for madness, must be sufficiently known to every one
who has conversed with insane persons, and must be
considered as time lost.” In opposition to these views,
it has been urged that insanity may be cured by moral
treatment alone ; and if this be admitted, how can the
fact be reconciled with the corporeal nature of the
disease. It must indeed be admitted that the soothing
plan of treatment, which is the medical name for the
moral,
is often highly efficacious, and is now, we are
happy to find, the method of treatment usually adopted
in this country. But this concession does not over-
turn the fact of the corporeal nature of insanity, for
the moral treatment is beneficial in almost every cor-
poreal disease. Many diseases of the heart are cured
by this plan alone. In inflammation of the eye, we
exclude the light from the inflamed organ, we keep
the patient on low diet, and avoid every cause of
excitement, and the inflammation may be overcome
but is the disease not seated in a corporeal organ ? In
inflammation of the brain, the moral, or soothing plan,
is uniformly had recourse to ; but because the inflamma-
tion may subside by these means, are we to conclude
that inflammation of the brain is not a corporeal dis-
ease ? Now, insanity is a symptom of a diseased con-
dition of the brain, depending primarily, in the majo-
rity of cases, on a greater or less degree of inflamma-
tory action ; it cannot be surprising then, that a plan
of treatment which wards off from the diseased organ
every species of excitement should be productive of
beneficial consequences. It would be surprising in-
deed, were it otherwise. Enter into any of our best
conducted hospitals for the insane, and after attending
PHYSICAL TREATMENT OF INSANITY. 105
to the practice most successfully employed, say whe-
ther it accords or not with the corporeal nature of
the disease. Will you find the patient bound hand
and foot and thrown into a dungeon till his senses
return, or chained to a stake and lashed into a sense
of duty or obedience to his merciless overseer ? No ;
you will find the patient treated upon different prin-
ciples ;
you will find leeches applied to his temples,
his head shaved and covered with a blister, the secre-
tions of his bowels improved by appropriate alteratives,
his nervous system soothed by hyoscyamus, opium,
and other anodynes, and the wants and comforts of
the patient attended to, as far as may be consistent
with his general safety. This plan of treatment is
applicable only to a corporeal disease ; it presupposes
an affection of the head, a disease of the brain ; and it
would be more philosophical, in speaking of insanity,
to call it a disease of the brain, than to use an appella-
tion which is so liable to mislead, and which at best
indicates but one symptom of the morbid affection.
Had insanity always been denominated a disease of the
brain, or been viewed as of this character, would the
heart-rending scenes which at one time were of daily
occurrence in every madhouse, ever have been witnes-
sed ? or, when entering these abodes of wretchedness,
would human ears ever have been assailed by the
clanking of chains, the resounding lash of the whip,
and the reiterated yells of the miserable outcasts,
writhing under a blind but systematic medical torture ?
Had the grand fundamental principle of Phrenology
been known, that the brain is the material organ of the
mind, a man could no t
more have been scourged or
106 THRENOLOGY EXPLAINS SATISFACTORILY
mutilated for being insane, than for labouring under
diarrhoea or dysentery ;
he would have been viewed
only as an object of deep commiseration, and means
resorted to with some rational prospect of benefit.
The knowledge of a disease is admitted to be half its
cure, and if we can point out the seat even of any
obscure disease, we have made an important advance
to its successful treatment.
It may be urged that medical science is not indebted
to Phrenology for this view of the nature and treatment
of insanity. If such views, however, existed before the
introduction of Phrenology, they had little influence on
medical practice. In none of our standard medical autho-
rities is it decidedly stated that the brain is the organ
of the mind. It is only since Phrenology was promul-
gated, and a force of evidence produced which bore
down all opposition, that the position has been generally
admitted. But Phrenology has not only led us to seek
for the cause of insanity, where alone it is to be found,
in the corporeal organs, it has also enabled us to
explain the endless variety of phases through which it
passes, and modifications which it assumes. How>
curious, and according to the old philosophy, how
perplexing, are some of the symptoms of insanity
A person, for example, may be insane on one subject or
one set of subjects, and perfectly rational on every
thing else ; and some idiots even exhibit remark-
able talents in a particular way. “By an inexpli-
cable singularity,” says Fodere, “ some of these indi-
viduals (Cretins) endowed with so weak minds, are born
with a peculiar talent for copying paintings, for rhym-
ing, or for music.” He knew several, he says, “who
THE SYMPTOMS OF INSANITY. 107
taught themselves passably to play on the organ and
harpsichord, others who understood, without ever
having had a master, the repairing of watches and the
construction of some pieces of mechanism.” He
adds, “ that these powers could not be attributed to
the intellect, for the individuals not only could not
read books, but could not comprehend what was said
to them,” A man may be insane on love, or religion,
or on as many different subjects as there are primitive
powers of the mind.
It has been already stated that insanity is not a
disease, but a symptom o a disease, or of numerous
diseases, and a symptom which can only be removed
by taking away the pathological cause inducing it; or,
in other words, by changing the state of the brain on
. which it depends. Insanity bears the same relation
to the brain that irregularity of pulse bears to the
heart, and as a deranged condition of the pulse cannot
be cured without removing the disease from the heart,
neither can mental manifestation be improved without
a change of the state of the brain. These phreno-
logical views of the subject may be illustrated still
farther by comparing insanity to a central point, from
which lines diverge in every direction ; all the lines
have this in common, that they communicate with the
central point, but each line has also a separate and
independent existence. If one line alone be affected,
the disease would correspond with partial insanity,
but if all the lines be affected it would correspond with
complete insanity; the mental phenomena could thus
easily be supposed to vary with the lines affected.
Substitute organs for lines, and a perfect idea may be
108 PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATION.
formed of the phrenological doctrine of insanity.
When one of the organs of the brain is affected with
disease, the insanity is partial, and the degree of
insanity will depend on the number of organs affected.
From this view of insanity, how easily it enables us to
explain every attendant phenomenon, and what a
power Phrenology is capable of imparting in the dis-
covery and treatment of cerebral diseases.
CHAPTER VII.
ON THE PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATION.
Principle 1st. Education does not confer new powers either mental or
corporeal, but merely improves those already im- .
planted by nature.
2d. All the "powers of the mind cannot be improved to an
equal degree in any individual.
3d. The improvement ‘of any one power of the mind does
not affect the strength or energy of any of the other
mental powers.
4th. The intellectual, powers which are naturally strongest
in any individual should be cultivated to a greater
degree than those that are weak.
5th. Education to be effective must bejpractical.
Advantages of Phrenology.
I. There is no living being with which we are
acquainted susceptible of education to the same extent
as man, and the reason of this is found in the great
superiority of man’s natural endowments ; for education,
it is to be particularly remarked, does not confer new
powers, either mental or corporeal, but simply improves
those already implanted by nature ; this position,
CULTIVATION OF THE VEGETABLE TRIBES. 109
though to us perfectly obvious and incontrovertible,
is not generally admitted. It will be necessary, there-
fore, that we enter upon its full examination, and that
the subject may be placed in as strong a light as possi-
ble, we shall refer first to the effects of education upon
th & Vegetable Tribes; secondly, upon the Inferior
Animals and thirdly, upon Man.
In what, we would ask, does the education or culture
of a plant consist ? Is it not in imparting to it its pro-
per nourishment, in placing it in the most favourable
eircumstances for appropriating the nourishment im-
parted, and in obviating those external causes which
tend to its injury? By attending to these circum-
stances the plant will grow, bear fruit, and display in
full vigour the energies of its nature ; but you can force
it to do no more. You cannot by any mode of culture
change the nature of a plant. No mode of culture
could, for example, convert a plum-tree into an apple-
tree, or make the poppy, which secretes opium, distil
the juice of the grape. Culture can produce no such
changes on vegetables; it may give addition of size; it
may modify or heighten the fragrancy or savour of the
vegetable or its productions, but cannot alter the in-
trinsic character of any individual vegetable substance.
n the education of inferior animals, in the next
place the same principle applies. We may affect or
mod.fy the character of such animals by education, but
we cannot change their natures. We cannot, for exam-
ple, impart the dispositions of a carnivorous animal, to
at of a herbivorous, or vice versa. We can tame, no
doubt, the most furious of animals, but this training
does not impart any new power, but merely decreases
110 TRAINING OF THE
or strengthens, modifies or changes, the direction of
powers which previously existed. The taming of a
wild animal is effected by exciting in the first place
its fears, so that it may be completely overawed, for
without this no subsequent step in the treatment could
be availing. After the trainer has imparted a sense of
his invincible superiority upon the animal by a frequent
recurrence to such means as are found adequate to the
purpose, his next step consists in repressing and keep-
ing in a state of quiescence, those natural instincts and
dispositions which have a tendency to show themselves ;
which may be effected, partly by keeping the animal
in a state of due subordination, and partly by exclud-
ing those circumstances which can excite the disposi-
tions we wish to overcome ; and lastly, he must excite
and keep in constant activity, those kindly feelings
which exist to a certain extent in all animals, and
which show themselves occasionally in their most
furious state. It is an undoubted fact, that in the in-
ferior animals, as well as in man, propensity of every
kind is increased by exercise and weakened by disuse ;
so that even in the Lion, if we could lull for a great
length of time those passions which naturally agitate
and convulse his frame, we would insensibly rob the
animal of his furious nature, and assimilate it to other
animals less furious and consequently more manageable
and docile, but do we by these means change his
inherent dispositions? Is the mild and inoffensive
lion that has been encaged for years and subjected to
the mastering hand of man, a totally different being
from him who ranges in the forest in all his shaggy
terrors, and appals by his thunders the animal world
INFERIOR ANIMALS. Ill
around him? The one is educated as far, it may be, as
his nature will permit ; but the animal has received no
new instinct, and all its old are still lurking within it,
and liable to break forth by the operation of every ex-
citing cause.
In taming or educating an animal of an opposite
character from the lion, a hare, for example, though
we must proceed upon similar principles, yet the appli-
cation of these principles must vary with the natural
character of the animal ; as timidity in the hare is the
overwhelming feeling, great care would be necessary to
diminish its intensity, for till this was accomplished the
education of the creature could not be proceeded with ;
but strong though the feeling be in that animal, it may,
to a great extent, be overcome ;
the intensity of every
animal feeling is increased by circumstances which
excite the feeling, and weakened by what represses
and keeps it in a state of inactivity. In the example
referred to, the timidity would be diminished by plac-
ing the animal for a long time in situations where it
could suffer no injury, and at the same time experience
frequent acts of kindness ; it is in this way only that
the feeling of timidity in an animal would be partially
overcome.
But in the training of animals it may be said that
more can be effected than the weakening or soften-
ing down of certain feelings ; we can teach them
something positive ; we can make them learn what
is foreign to their natures; we can impart, in a
word, new dispositions and powers. Can we not, for
example, train a dog to discover game without injuring
or devouring it, and thus to act contrary to the im-
112 PRINCIPLES UPON WHICH THE TRAINING
pulses of its nature ? Can we not impart the elegant
accomplishment of dancing to bears and horses, and
can we not learn parrots, starlings, and magpies to
speak, and is not speech admitted by philosophers to
be the prerogative and glory of the human race?
These allegations may seem to demand some explana-
tion. In training a dog for a particular purpose we
have, in the first place, to accommodate ourselves to
the particular instincts and dispositions, as well as the
inherent sagacity of the animal we wish to train. A
bull-dog, for example, could not be trained to the
duties of the shepherd’s dog, nor a greyhound to those
of the setter or pointer. We can easily train any dog to
perform a certain set of acts, but how comes it that all
dogs cannot be trained equally to the same pursuits ? If
the education of dogs consisted in imparting to them new
instincts or corporeal powers, all surely could be taught
to the same degree, for every thing would depend on the
trainer, the reception of the power not being dependent,
in any degree, on the animal ;
it must, according to the
supposition, come from the trainer ; nay, if the suppo-
sition was correct, a sheep or any other animal might
be raised to the same degree of sagacity and useful-
ness as the shepherd’s dog, an idea not only inconsis-
tent with all experience, but manifestly absurd. That
dogs, bears, and horses may be made to dance, to a
limited extent, is unquestionable ;
but this attainment
is not the result of the superaddition of any power,
either corporeal or mental. Dancing essentially con-
sists in moving the feet in a particular manner, but all
these animals could move their feet as soon as they
were brought into the world ; and the young foal frisking
OF INFERIOR ANIMALS MUST BE CONDUCTED. 113
around its dam in the pasture field displays more varied
and elegant movements than all the more measured
steps of the circus dancing-horse. The one is like a
finished gallopade, while the other is a miserable cari-
cature of something like the Highland Fling. It is
particularly obvious, therefore, that in teaching a horse
to move his limbs in a particular manner, we confer
no new power upon the animal, we only give a new
direction to a power which formerly existed. But this
remark cannot surely apply to speech. No inferior
animal in its natural state speaks, but by education can
we not make them display this power ? and if so, the
power is capable of being imparted ; and if any new power
can be imparted by education, the argument we are
labouring to support must fall to the ground. But we
are prepared to show that no animal but man can, in
the proper acceptation of the term, be taught to speak.
Parrots, starlings, magpies, and a few other animals,
imitate, indeed, a certain limited number of articulated
sounds ; but this is not speech. Before a being can
be said to speak, it must comprehend the meaning of
the words it uses. But do these animals know the
import of any word, or have we the means of imparting
the necessary intelligence to them? We undoubtedly
have not. So long as the intelligence is awanting,
they cannot, upon any sound principle, be said to
speak ; for speech is essentially the communication of
ideas, and the articulate sounds we use are merely the
signs or symbols of these ideas. The signs are nothing
in themselves, it is the ideas we are taught to associate
with them gives them value ; but as in the inferior ani-
mals there is no perceptible relationship between the
1 14 MENTAL POWERS NOT THE RESULT OF EDUCATION.
sign they may be taught to use, and the thing signified,
there can be no speech. In educating the inferior
animals, we must first study their inherent dispositions,
and improve them, and turn them to the purposes we
may require. If we proceed upon the principle of
imparting new powers, either corporeal or instinctive,
our efforts will be unavailing : nature cannot be changed.
If these observations are applicable to the inferior
animals over which we have such unlimited power,
we may draw the same conclusions regarding the edu-
cation of man. Many men who have received the
best education which influence and money could
procure, have after all, remained consummate fools ;
and many who have had little or no assistance, have
by the sheer force of their genius astonished mankind
by their powers. Shakspeare, Burns, Mozart, and
many others that could be mentioned, are of this last
description. If education is every thing in eliciting
the powers of the mind, as some have supposed, why
are not all educated individuals as great in poetry as
Shakspeare ? and why are all men not equal in mental
power and mental acquirements ? Is the difference
which unquestionably exists, attributable to the differ-
ence of degree in the education of individuals ? Are
the talents of men found to bear a uniform relation-
ship to the ratio of their education? Do members of
the same family, who are educated as nearly as possible
in the same manner, and to an equal degree, never
display diversities of mental power ? and if they do
differ in mental capacities, to what is this attributable ?
It cannot be to education, but to something in them-
selves.
HOW EDUCATION IS USEFUL. 1 15
In every department of nature, variety is the
predominant characteristic. In the grass that covers
the face of the globe, two blades cannot be found
perfectly alike. Two objects in nature have never
been in this state, and what reason have we to think
that the mind is an exception to this law ? Do
not the varieties of mental conformation continually
force themselves upon our observation ? These vari-
eties are found at the moment of birth as well as at
death. It is evidently an ordinance of nature. No
circumstance with which we are acquainted, can pro-
duce an equality. An equality of corporeal stature
and strength might as reasonably be expected.
Is education then of no use to man ? Far from it.
Although education cannot do every thing, it can
effect much. Man possesses a greater number of
inherent moral and intellectual powers than any other
animal ; all these powers are susceptible of improve-
ment, and it is the object of education to give a proper
direction to these powers, and to raise the moral and
intellectual status of the individual to the highest point
of which his nature is capable. If the intellectual
powers, however, are naturally very weak, no educa-
tion can render them strong ; and it they have been
naturally very strong they will remain so even without
education. Education can improve the powers of
man, but not to an indefinite extent. The man who
has naturally a weak verbal memory, may improve it
by education, but never to the extent of an individual
who has that power naturally strong. If the reflecting
powers of an individual are naturally weak, no system
of training can render that individual pre-eminent in
116 IMPROVEMENT OF ONE POWER OF THE MIND
metaphysical or abstract speculation. By education
his powers will be improved, but under no circum-
stances could he be made to equal a Locke, a Newton,
or a Bacon.
It is painful to observe the absurd and contradic-
tory opinions entertained by men who have preten-
sions to the character of philosophers, regarding the
mind and the effects of education upon it. One
compares the human mind in its natural state to
an uncultivated field, and education to the plough-
ing or preparing of it for the seed ; another com-
pares education both to the ploughing of the field
and sowing of the seed ; while a third likens the
human mind to a garden full of weeds, and education
to the uprooting of the noxious productions. Were
we permitted to speak metaphorically on the subject,
we would say that the human mind is a garden full of
natural plants ; and that although education consists
in the cultivation of these plants, yet it must be remem-
bered, that the cultivation of one plant does not affect
the luxuriancy or grow th of any other. Or wr
e would
rise higher in the regions of metaphor, and compare
the human mind to a diamond which, in the natural
state, might be mistaken for a common mineral, but
from w'hich the hand of the artist, like the efforts of
the teacher, can remove asperities, and draw forth
latent and resplendent excellencies. What polishing
does to the diamond, education effects upon the mind,
but no more ; it draws out and improves talents ;
it
polishes, but never changes the inherent character of
man. It may be considered, therefore, an incontro-
vertible axiom in philosophy, that education cannot
DOES NOT AFFECT ALL THE MENTAL POWERS. H7
impart now powers, but can only improve, and that to a
limited degree, the powers originally conferred by nature.
II. All the powers of the mind cannot be im-
proved to an equal extent in any individual.
This position is not only a natural conclusion drawn
from our knowledge of the mental constitution of man
as indicated by Phrenology, but is also supported by
daily experience. It is an incontrovertible fact, that in-
dividuals experience great difficulty in acquiring some
kinds of knowledge, while in other departments of
literature or science, they make rapid progress ;
they
feel instantly at home, and experience in such studies
nothing but delight. But even admitting that man is
born with all the mental powers equally strong, which
is not the fact ;
to preserve them all in an equal
degree of strength, the same degree of exercise or
culture would require to be given them all ; but the
smallest consideration will lead to the conclusion that
this is impracticable. Who has the requisite time or
corporeal strength even for such a species of training ?
To train one power to the highest degree of which
it is susceptible, our undivided attention is often re-
quired ; but how could undivided attention be given to
one power, if all the other powers of the mind must
be attended to in an equal degree ? Suppose you
wish to cultivate that power of the mind we call number,
or calculation. If you devote your attention exclu-
sively to arithmetical or algebraical subjects you would
attain greater eminence in these departments of science,
and improve the mental power on which that eminence
depends, than if we were to attempt to cultivate also
the fourteen remaining intellectual powers. If these
118 ALL THE MENTAL POWERS
observations are well founded, we ought not to attempt
to cultivate all the powers of the mind to an equal
degree, and any system of education founded on such
a principle will lead to nothing but disappointment.
III. The improvement of any one power of the
mind, [does not increase the strength or energy of any
other mental power.
This principle of education flows directly from
the phrenological doctrine, that the mind displays its
powers through different organs, each organ being
susceptible of action and repose independently of the
others. The common opinion seems to be at variance
however w’ith the above position. A boy sent to
school to cultivate his mind, is first taught to read
his native language. After he has attained a know-
ledge of this indispensable preliminary, he is sent, it
may be, to the grammar school, where he consumes
four or five years in learning the meaning of a few
Latin or Greek words ;
he has now got what is called a
grammar-school education ; in the estimation of some he
is an educated boy, and his friends suppose that because
he understands a few words of Latin and Greek his mind
is cultivated—he is fit for any thing. But this training
is calculated to cultivate only one of the powers of the
mind, the power which phrenologists call Language and
to show that the other powers are not improved by
such a course of training, we have only to observe the
effects of this training on the general character of
those who are subjected to it. Do we not every day
observe young men who have uniformly stood foremost
among their fellow-students, both at schools and
colleges, who have shown the greatest aptitude in
NOT EQUALLY IMPROVABLE. 119
learning- languages, who have even displayed great
philological powers, and whose mind, so far as Philo-
logy is concerned, may be said to have received the
last polish from the hand of the artist, have yet, in the
ordinary affairs of life, and in other departments of
science, displayed the greatest imbecility ? We do not
wish to disparage philological attainments, for the suc-
cessful cultivation of some professional pursuits they
are indispensable ; but their importance ought not to
be over-estimated. And those who believe that in
learning the meaning of words all the powers of the
mind are cultivated, over-estimate the advantages of
cultivating a verbal memory, and fall, besides, into
a most pernicious error. Do the best philological
scholars make the best arithmeticians, musicians, or
artists? Or do they explore, with equal success, the
facts and abstractions of physical and metaphysical
science ? They do not. Among these departments of
art or science, there is nothing alike: for their success-
ful cultivation, therefore, other powers of the mind are
required ; and it would be as absurd to suppose that
a training up of one power would strengthen or affect
any other power, as it would be to imagine, by im-
proving the organ of touch or taste, we must necessarily
render more acute the organ of hearing.
IV. The intellectual powers which are naturally
strongest in any individual, should be cultivated to a
greater degree than those which are weak.
If man could cultivate all his powers to the high degree
of which they are capable, and all to an equal extent,
the very reverse of this proposition ought to be our rule
of practice; but so long as the various intellectual powers
120 THE STRONGEST MENTAL POWERS
of the same mind confessedly differ in power, it would
obviously be absurd to endeavour to reduce them to
one standard ; we could only effect our purpose by
weakening the stronger powers, and would thus neces-
sarily lower the intellectual status of the individual.
The majority of mankind display partial talents, or
talents of a particular kind only. Some display a single
talent only ; and though great in reference to that
talent, are weak and imbecile in regard to every thing
else. The character of the man is generally estimated
from his most predominating talent ;
and if that talent
exist to an extraordinary degree, he may be viewed
as a prodigy among his fellow-men. Did we, however,
reduce in such a case all the powers of the individual
to an equality, as we cannot raise the lower powers
to an equality with the higher, we would necessarily
reduce the higher to an equality with the lower, thus
obviously lessening the value of the whole character; and
any system of education founded on such a principle
must deteriorate, but cannot exalt the character either
of individuals or nations. Look at the blasting effects
of the application of this equalizing principle on the
state of India. By the institution of the castes, every
individual must follow after the occupation or profession
of his forefathers. Taste and talent are there never con-
sulted ;
these are made to bend to external circumstan-
ces; genius is consequently cramped; industry paralyzed;
every motive to individual and national improvement
withdrawn ;
and a soporific mixture thrown, as it were,
upon the intellectual activities of the community. Let,
however, the institution of castes be demolished ;
let
the arbitrary restrictions that press down that immense
SHOULD BE PARTICULARLY CULTIVATED. 121
population to the dust be taken away ;
let the talents
of every man have free scope, and we shall soon find
the character of the whole people improved ;
genius
asserting its natural and inalienable superiority, and
shedding a refinement and glory over an amiable,
though benighted people. In this country it is far
otherwise : all are free, the lowly peasant equally with
the high born-prince can follow the bent of his genius ;
and where talent or genius shows itself, it is certain of
encouragement.
As* man cannot cultivate all his powers equally, it
is surely better that he should cultivate those which
he can turn to some account, than by unavailing efforts
endeavour to excel in something for which he was
never designed by nature. How ridiculous it would
bo for an individual paralytic in the lower limbs to
choose the profession of dancing ;
but would it not
be equally absurd for an individual destitute of musi-
cal talent, to follow music as a profession ; or an
individual who could not discriminate colours, to wed
himself to the profession of painting. When talent is
naturally weak, it may by cultivation be rendered
stronger ; but no education can compensate it for natural
deficiencies ;
and hence when any power of the mind
is very weak, the cultivation of the power will never
lead to any satisfactory result, and time will be lost in
the effort, which might have been beneficially employed
in training some of the other powers more susceptible
of improvement. As no human being can excel in
every thing, why should not every one confine his
attention to that department of art or science most
congenial to his nature ? But how are we to discover
M
122 TALENTS OF PERSONS.
the talents or genius of the individual ? In two ways
First, In observing the natural bias or inclination of
the individual ; and, secondly, by following the light
which Phrenology throws so broadly and steadily upon
the subject. Many will acquiesce in the justness of
the first of these observations, who would smile at the
idea of determining the profession of an individual by
the form of his head ; but to those who have studied
phrenological science, there is in such a position nothing
either unphilosophical or impracticable.
If it be admitted that the brain is the only part of
the body through which mind is displayed —and the
position cannot be disputed, it is a fact on which all
physiologists agree ; —if it is admitted, then, that the
brain is the organ of the mind, it must also be ad-
mitted, that any modification of the organ will affect
the mental manifestation. A similar observation ap-
plies to every other organ of the body, and we have
yet to learn that the brain is an exception to the
general law. Now, size and form are important modi-
fications which affect the functions of every organ ; and
why should we imagine that these modifications can
have no effect upon the functions of the brain ? W e
know that they have a most decided effect and
Phrenology tells us what these effects are. Supposing,
in the next place, that those who display particular
talents are remarkable for particular cerebral conforma-
tions, is it absurd to suppose that such conformations
could be recognised, and the talents coexistent with
the conformations predicated ? If this view of the case
be objected to, then we are entitled to ask, what is the
cause of the mental imbecility in the heads of idiots or
HOW DISCOVERABLE. 123
new-born children ? Is it attributable or not to the
state of the brain? Can a case be adduced with
decided idiotic conformation, in which the intellectual
powers have been displayed even in a moderate de-
gree ? No such case is to be found—the thing is
physically impossible. You might as well expect the
imperfect eye of the mole to equal in visual power
the keen and piercing eye of the eagle. No human
being with such a brain can be intelligent. We
have at least never seen such a phenomenon, and
what reason have we to believe in the possibility of
such an occurrence ? But does it not follow, that if the
form of the head which appertains to the majority of
idiots can affect the mental manifestations, other con-
formations must produce other effects ? and is it absurd
to suppose that these effects could be ascertained ? It
is now generally admitted, that the brain at the fore-
head is the seat of the intellectual operations; and if
this opinion be well founded, is it not obvious that a
small development of forehead must be incompatible
with intellectual greatness, else what is the use of the
brain at all ? It is now' also admitted, that a large
development of the posterior and lateral parts of the
brain may exist with a small anterior development ;
and that as the intellectual powr
er corresponds with the
magnitude of the forehead only, the lateral and poste-
rior parts of the brain cannot be concerned in the
manifestation of the intellectual powr
ers. Now, Phreno-
logists assert that observation leads them not only to
the conclusion that the mental feelings and intellectual
powers occupy different divisions of the brain, but they
maintain, likewise, that observation has enabled them
124 EDUCATION SHOULD
to condescend on the precise parts of the brain which
are the seats of the different feelings and intellectual
powers. Now, suppose you wish to test the truth
of these observations you must appeal to nature, and
observe particularly whether the power is ever seen
without the development, or if this mode of experiment
appears unsatisfactory, you will find that the power
may be predicated from any given development.
Phrenology may be tested in both of these ways, and
in both it will be found true to nature. Since, then, the
external configuration of the head leads us to a satis-
factory knowledge of the talents and mental constitu-
tion of individuals, there can be no great difficulty in
assigning to each individual the mental status to which
he is entitled, or in directing the attention of indivi-
duals to those pursuits in which they are calculated to
excel.
V. Education to be effective must be practical. Man,
surrounded as he is with natural objects, is capable only
of investigating successfully the existence, qualities,
phenomena, and relations of these objects ;
he has
powers adapted for such investigations, but for no
others. He should attempt then the investigation of no
subject beyond the range of his faculties, for the inves-
tigation can lead to no beneficial consequences. Many
delight in pure metaphysical speculations ; but to what
advantage can such speculations be turned, they are in
themselves of no value ;
and if we concede that they
may be indirectly useful in strengthening the reflective
powers, it is upon some such principle as if we would
approve of tight-rope dancing as an excellent exercise
for the muscles, while the same end could be more
BE PRACTICAL. 125
usefully and safely attained by persevering with energy
in our regular and lawful employments. Every depart-
ment of human knowledge consists of two parts—ot
simple facts, and of conclusions or deductions from
facts. Many men are better adapted for collecting
facts than for reasoning soundly or drawing just conclu-
sions from the facts with which they are acquainted.
Phrenology can not only explain most satisfactorily the
causes of these two different qualities of mind, but can
indicate with accuracy the individuals in which one or
other quality predominates. Science, it may be re-
peated, essentially consists offacts, and inferences from
facts ; and Phrenology'explains the reason of this, and
shows its harmony with the arrangements of nature, by
demonstrating that man has powers of two kinds only,
one kind for appreciating facts both physical and men-
tal, and another for reasoning, or drawing conclusions
or deductions. Phrenology inculcates that the intellec-
tual powers of man are of two kinds—the knowing and
reflecting. This is the phrenological doctrine, and it
harmonizes most beautifully with what we find to be the
essential nature of all science. If science consisted of
something more than facts and reasonings, of some-
thing which the powers of the mind, as indicated by
Phrenologists, could not appreciate, then there would
be a gap, a fatal defect in the phrenological system ;
but we find no such imperfections in the new philoso-
phy. It accounts most satisfactorily for every mental
phenomenon, and is, at the same time, in universal
harmony with the objects and operations of nature. In
calling the new philosophy to our aid in the cultivation
of the mental powers, we obtain principles of education
126 EDUCATION as CONDUCTED
applicable, first, to the whole human race ; and, second-
ly, to the mental peculiarities of individuals. We know
that all mind emanates from the brain ; we know also,
that at the early periods of life, man is better adapted
for observing facts than for reasoning upon them ; and
we know that at such periods of existence the knowing
organs are in a greater activity than the reflecting.
Nature herself then points out the tract which ought to
be followed. It is clear that the knowing organs
should be called into exercise before the reflecting.
Did we, however, reverse this order of nature, by
attempting to train a child to reason before he had
called the knowing organs into operation, and by their
operations stored the mind with important facts, we
would err as egregiously as if we would attempt to
teach a child to dance before it could walk ; to sing
before it could speak ; or to eat the most solid aliment
before its teeth had been formed.
Look at the plans of education in vogue at present
in many of our Universities, and say if they accord
with rational or consistent principles. Suppose a
young man enters our universities to be trained up to
the sacred profession, he must attend a certain number
of classes, and according to a determinate order. He
enters the University by the door of the Latin class;
he walks next into the Greek ;
then he passes into the
Logic; the Moral Philosophy classes now open to receive
him ; and after a profound training, it may be, in the
subtleties of dialectics, and intricacies of metaphysical
speculation, he is thought fit for entering the Natural
History and Natural Philosophy class, where he may
become acquainted with the objects and phenomena of
In our universities. 127
external nature. Students of the sacred profession (who
were afterwards reputed useful and effective preachers),
have even been known to have studied no department of
science save languages, logic, moral philosophy, and
systematic divinity ;
who were totally ignorant of the
elements of physical science; who could give no rational
explanations of the operations of physical nature ; who
uniformly ascribed the operations to the direct inter-
position of the great First Cause. And it is always thus :
ignorance and superstition go hand in hand, and the
more ignorant a man is of physical science, the more
superstitious he will necessarily be. We do not object
so much to the sciences which are taught in our uni-
versities, as to the order in which they are taught.
We object particularly to the pre-eminence given to
abstract and metaphysical speculation, to the partial,
almost total exclusion of the physical sciences ; and
the objection is not made on speculative grounds, but
from the following considerations. First, A knowledge
of all that appertains to metaphysics is less useful to
mankind than a knowledge of physical science. Second-
ly, The great majority of mankind can excel in some of
the physical sciences, while comparatively few attain
eminence in metaphysical pursuits : and Thirdly, The
arrangement of studies objected to is inconsistent with
every sound principle of education, as it places that
which is difficult before that which is easy, instead of
the more rational way of commencing with what is
most simple, and leading the mind by insensible grada-
tions into that which is more intricate. We do not
expect much ratiocination from a child. A child given
to abstract reasoning would excite our astonishment,
128 HOW THE EDUCATION OF
but wc arc not surprised at a child that it is curious
and observant, for all children are so. A child easily
gets acquainted with objects that surround him ; with
people with inferior animals, with householdfurniture,
with articles of dress, with persons, with places.
Varied and extensive knowledge of this kind is accu-
mulated with astonishing rapidity. An ordinary child
in the first six years of his existence acquires a know-
ledge of as many insulated facts as are found in any of
our physical sciences, and there can be no doubt that
the facts of any of these sciences could he communi-
cated even to very young children, provided proper
plans of instruction were adopted ;
provided, in other
words, their education were of a practical character.
There is a natural tendency in the minds of all children
to acquire facts, and the pure and simple facts of physical
science differ in nothing essential from the facts or
existences which meet our daily observation. The
child, however, gets quickly acquainted with the
objects that surround him, while he moves tardily on
with his task in natural history, chemistry, geography,
botany, or any other of the natural sciences. And the
reason is, that in the one case he obtains a practical
knowledge of the objects that are around him ; every
thing he practically examines makes a strong and last-
ing impression on his mind, whereas by studying phy-
sical sciences through the medium of books or lectures
only, as is too frequently the case, a feeble impression
is produced upon the mind. If a child were induced
to engage practically in the prosecution of such studies,
he could as assuredly be made as easily acquainted
with every important fact connected with such sciences,
MAN IS TO BE EFFECTED. 129
as he could be made to distinguish an orange from an
apple, a piece of rock-salt from a piece of loaf-sugar, or
gooseberry jam from currant jelly or marmalade. Every
part of physical science conversant with material
objects must be subjected to the scrutiny of the exter-
nal senses ;
the more such objects are scrutinized, the
better will they be known, and the more lasting will
be their impression on the mind. All education, then,
should be practical ; theoretical education is education
only in name.
But how is the education of man to be effected ? in
what order are the powers of the mind to be exercised ?
For a satisfactory answer to these questions recourse
must be had to Phrenology, for no other system of phi-
losophy can lend the smallest assistance in solving the
important problem. Phrenology, however, demon-
strates, First, That the brain in the forehead is the seat
of the intellectual operations. Secondly, That the
brain in its progress to maturity undergoes certain
changes of form : and Thirdly, That these changes take
place, according to fixed and established laws. In
training, then, the intellectual powers of a human being,
we ought to be guided generally by the order in which
the powers appear. Now we know that the lower
part of the forehead is always sooner developed than
the upper, and we ought therefore to cultivate those
connected with the lower before those of the upper.
In the forehead we find three ranges of organs, the
lower, middle, and upper.* If all the organs in the lower
region were nearly equally developed, then they might
be cultivated in the order in which they are situated,
* See page 84.
130 I’HilENOLOGY NOT A
commencing with Language and Individuality, and pro-
ceeding outwards to Number. The order of nature in
educating a human being is here apparent. The first
departments of knowledge which a child should be
taught, then, are languages or the meaning of words,
more particularly its own language. The facts of
natural science, such as chemistry and natural history,
or those parts of these sciences which in after-life he
may turn to some account. He should also at an early
period engage in drawing, painting, and the elemen-
tary parts of numbers or of arithmetic. These may
be taught during the first fourteen years of a child’s
existence. From the fourteenth to the twentieth year
he may cultivate the powers connected with the second
range of organs ; these are, eventuality, locality, time,
and tune. Or to express the same idea in ordinary lan-
guage, between the fourteenth and twentieth year,
besides entering more fully into those parts of natural
science which had formerly occupied his attention, he
will be able during this period to engage in the study
of history, geograph}', chronology, and music ; and
after the twentieth year, when the upper range of
organs attain their full development, he may engage
in th^ more abstract departments of science ; in moral
and political economy, and the investigation of prin-
ciples, whether applicable to science or to the arts.
Phrenology is not a speculative science. It ex-
plains not only all the greater phenomena of mind, but
accounts for the dispositions, feelings, the peculiarities
of intellect, and the tendencies to particular kinds of
action or of conduct which individuals display. It
also throws, as we have seen, a broad and steady light
SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 131
upon the general principles of education, upon the
education of individuals, and on the means of improv-
ing eventually the whole human race. It lays the axe
to the root of the fallacies, that man is the creature of
circumstances ;
that all men are naturally equal ;
and
that all the powers of the mind are susceptible of in-
definite improvement. It demonstrates, that as all the
mental phenomena are dependent on the brain, that
external circumstances can no more change the talents
and disposition of individuals, than they can change
the organization of the brain ;
and that until such a
transformation takes place, these positions must be erro-
neous. It shows that all men are not naturally
equal, for no two brains are found precisely alike ;
and
that the doctrine of the indefinite improvability of
man cannot be true so long as the brain is an orga-
nized mass, and like every organized body susceptible
of growth, maturity, and decay. Phrenology is not
only calculated to give us a clear insight into the
workings of the human mind, but it enables us also to
render the mental powers available to the possessor.
It must be admitted that the majority of mankind
are possessed of partial talent. A man that can excel
equally in every department of art and science, does not
exist. His existence is a physical impossibility. But
even admitting the possibility of the case, a question
arises, whether it would be more prudent to cultivate
one or a few of these powers to the degree of which
they are susceptible, or to attempt to cultivate all the
powers and attain only a mediocrity in each. Had
Paganini, for example, attempted to excel in mathe-
matics, metaphysics, poetry, painting, languages, &c.
1,32 EDUCATION OF THE
as well as in music, would he have stood so pre-eminent
above his compeers ? He probably would not have been
known beyond the city of Genoa, in which he was born.
The powers of man are limited, and it is better that he
should do little and that well, than that he should attempt
to do much and do nothing successfully. Now, is it a
matter of little moment that Phrenology should be able
to point out what powers of the mind are capable of the
most successful cultivation in any individual ? Is it
nothing that whole years of unavailing efforts should
be saved ? that the child from his earliest infancy
should be directed into the path in which his own hap-
piness is to be found, and in which he can most success-
fully promote the happiness of others ? Nobody will
doubt that if Phrenology can lead to this end, that it is
capable of effecting much good ; and every one ac-
quainted with Phrenology also knows that the talents
of any individual can easily be recognised, and their
relative power consequently easily calculated.
The systems of education inculcated by philosophers,
and followed in our schools, are too theoretical to be
useful. A book is placed in the hand of a child before
it can speak its own language. It is taught to commit
to memory passages in prose and passages in poetry.
To impart to it correct ideas of morality and religion,
it is made to read a treatise on moyal duty, and to com-
mit to memory psalms, and hymns, and passages of the
Bible. In teaching some of the abstract sciences even
the same principle prevails. A young man engages in
the study of mathematics, The Elements of Euclid are
committed to memory,
and his mathematical studies
are supposed to be successfully terminated. In t he
PROPENSITIES AND SENTIMENTS. 13:3
cultivation of every science the same principle to a
very great extent prevails. The student who has com-
mitted to memory the principal facts in anatomy, che-
mistry, and the other departments of medical science
is considered to be sufficiently qualified to practise.
Now, this plan of education leads to the cultivation of
one power of the mind at the expense of the others.
In all these cases the verbal memory is chiefly culti-
vated ; and he who believes that by cultivating that
power all the others are necessarily improved, falls
into a common but egregious error. Phrenology leads
to a more just conclusion. It shows that the powers
of the mind are as independent of each other as the
organs of sensation, and who would think of improv-
ing, for example, the organ of touch by merely exercis-
ing the organ of vision. Every power of the mind
requires, therefore, to be cultivated for itself.
In educating a human being it is necessary to re-
member that he is born with Propensities and Senti-
ments, as well as powers more purely Intellectual, and
although it is the principal end of education to improve
the intellectual part of man to the highest point of
which it is capable, still the moral part of his nature is
deserving of much consideration. In mankind, gene-
rally, the organs of the Feelings are more active than
those of the Intellect. They are, consequently, more
apt than those of the understanding to run into excesses
of various kinds, and to entail misery on all around
them. It is clear, then, that the Feelings should be
early governed and directed. Every feeling, as well
as intellectual power, becomes stronger by exercise
and weaker by disuse, ami this is in harmony with
N
134 EDUCATION OF THE FEEDINGS.
every organ of the body. Muscles that are frequently
employed increase in size and strength, and those
which are never brought into operation dwindle and
lose their contractile power.
The Propensities should be kept in constant subser-
viency to the Intellect, while the Sentiments should
be cherished by every means which circumstances
afford for this purpose. As the Propensities are drags
upon our intellectual nature, they should be repressed
at an early age, and soothed and tamed into due sub-
mission to the will ; while, as theSentiments impart a high
tone of feeling to the character, their power should be
directly and indirectly promoted, and, except in certain
cases, their activity kept in constant operation. But
how is this last to be effected ? I answer, by placing
the individual frequently in circumstances calculated to
call such sentiments into operation. Verbal descrip-
tion may, no doubt, give rise to all the sentiments,
but by this method the feeling is weakly excited, com-
pared with objects that directly affect the senses. The
reading of a tragedy excites less emotion than witness-
ing its representation on the stage, and the closer the
representation mimics the reality the emotion will be
the more powerful.
A child may be told to cherish the feeling of venera-
tion, but if you wash him to experience the feeling
powerfully you must lead him frequently to the very
act of devotion, and let him sympathize with the feel-
ing as it displays itself in others. In this wr
ay only
should the sentiment of veneration be cultivated, and
the principle is applicable to the training of all the
other powers of the same kind.
EDUCATION OF THE INTELLECT. 135
But man is a being not only endowed with Feelings
but with Intellect, and the intellectual powers display
themselves at a very early period. The knowing
organs are first called into operation, as these bring in
the pabulum for the action of the reflecting powers.
Of the knowing powers, Language and Individuality are
among the first that should be cultivated, and the others
according to their relative size. While cultivating the
knowing powers, the reflecting ones should, to a certain
extent, regularly be employed ; although in almost all
our plans of education, the knowing powers of children
are cultivated, to the neglect almost altogether of the
reflecting. Children are made to wait till they are fit
for a logic or moral philosophy class, before the
reflecting powers are brought into action. But the
plan is highly objectionable. Every object which pre-
sents itself to his daily observation, every subject on
which the knowing organs may be engaged, is fitted to-
call into exercise both comparison and causality ; and
the child who has been trained to exercise these organs
from his early years, and on subjects of common
observation, will, cceteris paribus, use them with more
effect when he arrives at maturity, and when he directs
them to the investigation of truth in science and philo-
sophy. Man cannot become too intellectual ; and as
his intellectuality depends on the existence of these
powders, they should be early and regularly brought into
operation. Yetthoughall the reflecting organs should be
cultivated to the highest degree of which they are ca-
pable, the observation is not applicable to the knowing
organs. All of these organs indeed should be culti-
136 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
vated to a certain extent ; but when any are pre-
eminently developed, these should be cultivated to the
partial exclusion of the others, and the individual so
circumstanced should engage in a profession in which
such powers are peculiarly brought into operation. In
this way individuals will be enabled to follow the bent
of their inclination to advance the interests of particular
arts or sciences, and conduce, consequently, to their
happiness and to the greatest improvement of the human
race.
Phrenology is not only calculated to discover the
talents of individuals, and to teach us to cultivate with
effect talents which exist, but under proper direction
it may be made the stupendous instrument of im-
proving the intellectual capacity of the whole human
race.
The brain is a part of the corporeal frame, and sub-
ject to the same laws that regulate the development of
every other corporeal organ.* The corporeal part of
man is under the same system of laws which gQverned
the formation, the growth, and decay of the corporeal
* The purely physical part of the education of man is of paramount
importance ;
but has not been sufficiently insisted upon by many of
our best writers upon Education. The more, however, Phrenology is
studied, the more will its importance be appreciated. As a part of the
body, the brain must rise and fall with the varying health of the system ;
and the improvement of the corporeal system generally must necessa-
rily raise the healthy condition of the brain. We can only advert at
present to the subject ;
but it is one full of interest. When the ancients
spoke of the “ mens Sana in corpore sano,” they spoke with their accus-
tomed wisdom ;
and it is obvious, that so long as the animal part of our
constitution is linked with the mental, the training of the one must
form as essential an ingredient as the education of the other.
MATRIMONIAL ALLIANCES. 137
parts of animals generally. To prevent animals from
degenerating, and to enable them to attain the highest
perfection of which their natures are capable, we re-
quire to improve not only the corporeal powers of
individuals, but by attending to certain well known
laws, we can improve or deteriorate the whole breed.
How are our race-horses so superior? Howr
can
we form kinds of dogs which will differ so much
from each other in instincts and corporeal powers ?
Can the character of these animals be changed by edu-
cation alone ? Other conditions are required, and by
attending to these conditions, the requisite changes
can be effected. Man is no exception to the general
law; but he seems to think that he is, for while he
devotes so much time to the improvement of the vari-
ous races of domesticated animals, he never seems to
suspect that by acting on similar principles his own
progeny could be improved. Every peculiarity of
corporeal conformation is transmitted from generation
to generation. Family heads are to be found, as
well as family talents and dispositions ; and if we
improve the character of the former, then we will
assuredly affect in the same ratio the character of
the latter.
The majority of mankind, it is to be regretted, do
not take this view of the subject. In forming matri-
monial alliances, many men are influenced by motives of
which, as intellectual beings, they ought to be ashamed.
A man who marries purely for money, who is capti-
vated by a fine foot, an elegantly formed ankle, a slender
waist, or a languishing eye, is rarely himself intellectual}
13S MATRIMONIAL ALLIANCES.
and intellectuality will seldom be the predominatin
characteristic of his children.
“ What is the blooming tincture of the skin
To peace of mind and harmony within ;
What the bright sparkling of the finest eye
To the soft soothing of a calm reply ;
Can comeliness of form, or shape, or air.
With comeliness of words or deeds compare ?
No ! Those at first the unwary heart may gain ;
But these, these only, can the heart retain.”
PRACTICAL EXAMINATION OF THE HEAD.
Before referring to the engravings, it may not be
useless to point out the mode in which a practical
examination of a head should be made. The first thing
to be attended to, then, is the absolute size of the
head ; for a large head, coeteris paribus, always shows
more power than a small head. The head should next
be viewed as divided into four regions, an anterior, a
posterior, a superior, and an inferior. The relative
size of the anterior and posterior may be seen by ex-
tending a line from ear to ear over the crown of the
head ; and the superior and inferior regions may also
be compared by a line which encircles the head on a
level with the middle of the forehead, or, more correctly,
by a circular line drawn at the level of Causality,
Caution and Inhabitiveness. The effects produced by
the predominancy of any of these regions have already
been adverted to (see page 95.) It requires, however,
to be stated, that that part of the brain that lies an-
terior to the ear is not all concerned in intellectual
function—a part of it is formed by the middle lobe of
the brain, and consequently a part of it is the seat of
feeling. The size of the anterior lobe must be calcu-
lated from the breadth and elevation of the forehead.
On the heads of Hare and the Rev. Mr. M. the line
A B, or the oblique line, insulates the intellectual part
of the brain ; and the horizontal line is drawn between
.T40
practical Examination of the head.
tile seat of the sentiments and propensities. After a
no, e has thus been obtained of the greatoutS^.
of the head, the relative size of the organs in each
region must next be observed f and repeated experi-
e its and observat.ons will soon enable the majority
Penologists to arrive at just conclusions upon this
part of the subject. The eye and hand are better mea-
surers both of form and size than callipers or any other
instrument, and should be made to supersede every
such instrument. In forming an estimate of the com-
parative size of the organs, Phrenologists observe, first,
the elevations and depressions when such exist upon
the head, and secondly, the extent of space between
e site of the organ and the opening of the ear. The
ear is referred to because it is nearly opposite to the
medulla oblongata, or part from which the fibres of
the brain commence and radiate to the convolutions
which are situated immediately under the cranium
the longer the fibres, generally speaking, the larger
the organ.
1
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
In these plates, the heads of four well known charac-
ters are represented ; two in which the Intellectual and
Moral departments of the brain predominated, and twr
o
in which the very opposite conformation existed, and
whatis the conclusion that would necessarily be deduced
from these forms ? Would not a Phrenologist at once
indicate intellectuality and all the moral and religious
qualities from the former, and every low and degrading
vice and atrocity from the latter.
The head of Hare show's a decided preponderance
of the propensities over the moral sentiments and intel-
lectual powers, and his acts were such as to fill every
well constituted mind with horror and disgust. In the
engraving, Hare’s head is in profile, and consequently
an imperfect idea can only be formed from it of the
size of the moral sentiments, for the breadth of the
upper region cannot be seen ; but in the cast of his
head this part is narrow as might have been ex-
pected.
t
In the head of Pope Alexander VI. we have still a
worse conformation. The whole head is thrown back-
wards in the direction of the basilary region, which is
prodigiously large, with a lamentable deficiency of the
forehead and upper regions. At the very first glance.
142 THE REV. MR. M. AND M EL'ANCTHON.
a Phrenologist would conclude that the character was
grossly bestial, without a redeeming amiable quality.
And what was actually his character ? Let history
tell.* •
•
In the Rev. Mr. M. there is not only a considerable
development of brain before the ear, but it rises high
in the coronal region ; thus- indicating, phrenologically,
great endowment of moral and religious feeling, and
respectable intellectual powers. His ciiaf&cter cor-
responded accurately with his developments.f
In the head of Melancthon we have the beau ideal
* “ Pope Alexander VI. This disgrace to the papal chair, whose
family name was Borgia, was born at Valencia, in Spain, in 14-31, and
succeeded Pope Innocent VIII. in 1192. His life was a series of crimes.
By his concubine Vanozzi, he had five children, worthy of such a
father, and of these Cassar, the most infamous, was his favourite. In
all his political connexions he- was treacherous, beyond the usual mea.
sure of treachery in politicians. The pontifical claims to supremacy
lost nothing in his hands. It was he who divided between the Spaniards
and Portuguese the recently discovered realms of America, by drawing
a line from pole to pole, a hundred leagues to the westward of the
Azores, and assigning to the former people all the realms to the west of
it, and to the latter all those to the east. This hateful pontiff died in
the year 1503 ;
and is said to have fallen, by mistake, a victim to poison,
which he and his son Carsar had prepared for others.”—Davenport's
Dictionary oj Biography.
f “ Mr. M. is stated, by his medical friend, to have been upwards of
thirty years a minister in a Baptist congregation, and that he was first
brought up to the trade of watch-making, but which he soon abandoned
for pursuits more congenial to his tastes and inclinations. By great
application he became a scholar and a man of considerable learning.
Besides, his medical friend spoke of him in terms of the highest.'respect
as a minister, esteemed by all his congregation ;
as a man, of most
exemplary conduct, and of the strictest integrity, who showed great
care and economy in the management of his own affairs.”—Phrenologi-
cal Journal.
MELANCTHON. 143
of phrenological development. The forehead is splen-
did—“the front of Jove himself.” The coronal region
towers to a magnificent height above the ear, and the
posterior and basilary regions, so far as they can be
observed, are comparatively small. This conformation
would indicate, phrenologically, profound and compre-
hensive intellect, pure and elevated moral sentiments,
with mildness of disposition : and observe how his
character corresponded.*
* “ Philip Melancthon, a celebrated Protestant reformer, was born,
dn 1497, at Bretten, in the Palatinate. His real name was Schwartzerde,
or Black Earth, of which Melancthon is a translation. He studied at
Wittemberg and Tubingen ;
and, in 1518, was appointed Greek profes.
sor at Wittemberg, where he became the friend of Luther, and a con-
vert to his doctrines. To the diffusion of the new doctrines he power-
fully contributed ;
but he displayed a moderate and conciliatory spirit,
which was displeasing to the more imperious Luther. The Confession
of Augsburg was the work of this reformer. Even his theological
enemies respected the virtues, the talents, the learning, and the mild
temper of Melancthon. He died at Wittemberg in 1560. His works
form four folio volumes.” Davenport's Dictionary of Biography.
Spurzheim* thus describes the head of Melancthon :
—“ It is the brain
of an extraordinary man. The organs of the moral and religious feel-
ings predominate greatly, and will disapprove of all violence, irre-
verence, and injustice. The forehead betokens a vast and compre-
hensive understanding, and the ensemble a mind the noblest, the most
amiable, and the most intellectual, that can be conceived.” “Never
was any man more civil and obliging, and more free from jealousy,
•dissimulation, and envy, than Melancthon ;
he was humble, modest,
disinterested in the extreme ;
in a word, he possessed wonderful talents,
and most noble dispositions. His greatest enemies have been forced to
acknowledge that the annals of antiquity exhibit very few worthies
who may be compared with him, whether extent of knowledge in
things human and divine, or quickness of comprehension and fertility
of genius, be regarded. The cause of true Christianity derived more
•signal advantages, and more effectual support from Melancthon, than
it received from any of the other doctors of the age. His mildness and
* Phrenology in connexion with Physiognomy.
144 MELANCTHON.
charity perhaps carried him too far at times, and led him occasionally to
make concessions that might be styled imprudent. He was the sincere
worshipper of truth, but he was diffident of himself, and sometimes
timorous without any sufficient reason. On the other hand, his forti.
tude in defending the right was great. His opinions were so univer-
sally respected, that scarcely any one among the Lutheran doctors
ventured to oppose them. He was inferior to Luther in courage and
intrepidity, but his equal in piety, and much his superior in learning,
judgment, meekness, and humanity.”
THE END.
Glasgow E. Khull, Printer to the University.
POPULAR WORKS
PUBLISHED BY
W. R. M‘PHUN, 86, TRONGATE, GLASGOW
N. H. COTES, 139, CHEAPSIDE, LONDON.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
I.
Dedicated to the Hon. James Ewing, Esq., M. P.
M‘Phun’s Guide through Glasgow,
Neatly bound in pocket Size, 2s. 6d.
Pocket Map of Glasgow,
In a. Case, Is., in Sheet, 6d.
“ These issue from a press in which we are more imme-
diately interested than those of Mr. Knight and Mr. Valpy.
They are published in Glasgow by the house of M‘Phun
a name which was associated with the diffusion of much
cheap and useful knowledge throughout Scotland, long before
the Society whose labours we have noticed above did exist.
So wonderful a city in its progress and magnitude deserved
a well-informed and trust-worthy guide ;
and such a guide
Mr. M'Phun has furnished. It is enriched with a very
neatly engraved plan of the eity, a view of the city, and
prospective elevations of its principal buildings.” Dumfries
Times.
“ This is an exceedingly useful and respectable little
Work. * * Numerous as have been the publications of
Mr. M'Phun, this is undoubtedly one of the best of them.”
Dumfries Courier.
“ This is a neat and well-executed little volume. From
the distinct and graphic manner in which M'Phun’s Guide
is written, we can confidently recommend it to every one
who desires an acquaintance with the lions and localities of
Glasgow.” Edinburgh Evening Post and Scottish Literary
Gazette.
“ M'Phun’s Guide through Glasgow is a beautiful little
volume.” Glasgow Chronicle.
THE HORSE, THE DOG, AND
*THE COW.
'
FIFTH EDITION. (Making 5000 Copies.)'
Printed on a very large sheet to hang upon the wall, Is. 6d. ;
on stout pasteboard, 2s. or folded in a neat case
for the pocket, 2s. 6d.
Small’s Veterinary Tablet,
Being a Concise Account of the Diseases of Horses, Cattle
and Dogs, with their Cause, Symptoms and Cure ;
to
which are added numerous valuable Recipes.
The very flattering reception which this work has met
with from the public and the press, is the best proof the
Publisher can give of its “meriting,” as he originally
announced, “ the attention cf all proprietors of domestic
animals.”
« The work is quite original, portable, and valuable ;
and
if there be a jockey, groom, cow-keeper, cattle-dealer, or
dog-fancier, who shall not possess a copy of it before this
dav three months, all we say is let not that man be trusted."
—.'Liverpool Standard
“ Of the many cheap and useful things which Mr.
M‘Phun has published, this is perhaps the cheapest and
most useful. It is the best specimen of much information
comprised in small compass we ever saw.” Dumfries
Herald.
“ The diseases, causes, symptoms, and cures, are arranged
in different columns; and being of prompt and easy reference,
the sheet caunot fail to be highly useful to numerous persons
having interest in the classes of animals to which it refers.
Rules'are also given for distinguishing the ages of horses, and
for blood-letting, and other external operations, which, as
the author has very properly avoided technicalities, will be
easily comprehended by farmers and others who may have
occasion to put them in practice.”— Aberdeen Journal.
« It is not too much to affirm it is the most concise svs-
t -m of Veterinar y Surgery that has yet been offered to the
nublic.” Scots Times. „ „
V
“ Here we have at one view in fact, the useful essence ot
Ml that has been written or practised on these subjects,
ind Mr. Small, the author, though little in name, has suc-
ceeded most admirably in a great undertaking, and for the
mall price of half-a-urown.”—Bell's Life in London.
Price Is. 6d., 2s. bound.
The' Mother’s Pocket"Medical
^
Guide
Or a Treatise on the Physical Education and Diseases of
Children. Compiled for popular use, from the writings
of Drs. Eberle, Dewees, Burns, Ryan, Kennedy, and
others. By a Physician.
Part I.-OFTHE PROPHYLACTIC & PHYSICAL
MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.
Chap. I. Of the conduct of mothers during pregnancy.
1. Of the Diet during pregnancy. 2. Of Dress and exer-
cise. 3. Of Moral Influence. 4. Of Blood-letting. Of the
Breasts. 6. Of Parturition. —Chap. II. Of the Manage-
ment of new born Infants. 1. Of Washing and Dressing.
2. Of the Dress. —Chap. III. Of the Food of Infants. 1.
Of the employment of Nurses. 2. Of Artificial Nursing
Chap. IV. Of Exercise. 1. Carrying. 2. Walking. —Chap.
V. Of Air, Temperature, and Nurseries Chap. VI. Of
Weaning.—Chap. VII. Of Cleanliness, Washin^and Bath-
ing.
Part. II.— OF THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN.
Chap. I. Of Syncope, Asphyxia, and Imperfect Respiration.
—Chap. II. Of the Meconium—Chap. 111. Of the
Tongue-tie. —Chap. IV. Of Inflammation of the Breasts
and Navel —Chap. V. Of the Jaundice of Infants. —Chap.
VI. Of the Retention, Suppression, and Difficulty in void-
ing, and Incontinence of the Urine. —Chap. VII. Of Teeth-
ing'—Chap. VIII. Of Diabetes, Erysipelas, Thrush, Ul-
ceration of the Mouth. ]. Diabetes. 2. Erysipelas. 3.
Thrush. 4. Ulceration of the Mouth —Chap. IX. Of Colic.
—Chap. X. Of Constipation and Vomiting. 1. Constipa-
tion. 2. Vomiting—Chap. XL Of Diarrhoea. 1. Fceculent
Diarrhoea. 2. Bilious Diarrhoea. 3. Lienteric Diarrhoea.
4. Chronic Diarrhoea. —Chap. XII. Of Intestinal Worms.
—Chap. XIII. Of Ophthalmia. 1. Purulent Ophthnlmia.
2. Scrophulous Ophthalmia.—Chap. XIV. Of Cholera.
Chap. XV. On Croup.
The Pocket Medical Guide, and the Mother's Pocket
Medical Guide. —Mr. M‘Pliun has become celebrated for
bringing out cheap and useful publications of this sort ;
and
none more useful than the two now before us could well
have been given to the public. The contents are arranged
on an excellent plan, besides being in a form which includes
much practically useful information in a small space, and
they are astonishingly moderate in price.— Aberdeen Journal
The Highlands of Scotland
Embellished, with Plates,
and illustrated with Maps of the
Western Coast,
including the Hebride Islands. t
Price only 2s. 6d.
The Scottish Tourist’s Steam-Boat
Pocket Guide
Being an account ofall that is worthy ofthe Stranger's notice
in the Western Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
“ No tourist in search of the picturesque among the noble
and romantic scenery of our Western Highlands should be
without a copy of this admirable little publication, which
contains a greater mass of valuable and interesting infor-
mation, regarding the West of Scotland, with its splendid
rivers, lochs, mountains and isles, than was ever compressed
into such diminutive bounds before. We look upon the small
size of this Pocket Guide as one of its best recommendations,
and we cordially agree in the following observations which
we extract from the preface :
“ ‘ The truth of the adage—“ a great book, a great evil,”— is
seldom more deeply felt than when one is travelling. In
such circumstances an ordinary octavo, or even a fashionable
duodecimo, is often found to be an exceedingly troublesome
companion. No tourist can comfortably ‘ take the road’
with a book in his pocket exceeding snuff-box dimensions.
Under this conviction we have arranged our materials in
the smallest convenient form. The limits we have pre-
scribed to ourselves have indeed imposed upon us a necessity
for great condensation and brevity, yet we are not aware
that we have, in. a single instance, withheld any really use-
ful information from the tourist; nay we have sometimes,
it will perhaps be thought, used a Cicerone’s privilege, and
anticipated more questioning than some who may place
themselves under our guidance, feel inclined to put us to.
^
“ But although ‘ brevity is very good,’ and particularly in
works which are to be consulted while we are engaged in a
pleasure trip, and are more desirous of using our eyes in
contemplating the beauties of nature than in reading the
lettered page, it is, nevertheless, necessary that the notices
given, if brief, should not be meagre. Mr. M’Phun’s book
is however just what it should be in this respect. In few
words it says much, and, small as it is, it coutains every-
thing which the traveller would wish to know.
“ The volume is dedicated to the Itoyal Northern lacht
Club, and is embellished with three well executed engrav-
ings,represen ting some of the most interesting scenes on the
Clyde, while its value is increased by two maps of the part
ol .Scotland referred to in the text. — Greenod: Intelligencer.
The Pocket Guide to Domestic
Cookery.
BY A LADY. To which are added,
Instructions for Trussing and Carving, with
® Plates.
Third Edition, much improved. To this Edition has been
added an entire chapter on Preserves, thus making the
work the cheapest, most complete, and most concise treatise
on Cookery extant. The price is, as formerly, only Is. 6d.
sewed, and 2s. bound.
iggT Not a single recipe is given in this volume that has not
been practised by the Authoress.
CONTENTS.—Chap. I. Instructions for Marketing.
II. Preparations and General Rules for Cooking, Trussing,
&c. —III. Directions for Carving.—IV. General Remarks
on Dinners and Suppers. —V. Made Dishes. —VI. Soups,
Gravies, &c. —VII. Fish Dishes. —VIII. Pastry. —IX.
Puddings, &c—X. Cookery for the Sick—XI. Miscellan-
eous Receipes. —XII. Miscellaneous Recipes—Observa-
tions on Preserves. —XIII. Observations on Pickles.
The great defect in the numerous manuals of Cookery,
which at present divide the public favour, is their bulk and
price. Neither of these objections apply to the present
work ;
although it will be found to contain all that is really
and most practically useful to the good and economical
housewife. It has been the object of the authoress to supply
all the requisite information for keeping a well-ordered
kitchen and furnishing a respectable table, without perplex-
ing the young housekeeper with a useless variety of recipes,
and a multitude of details, which, even when not entirely
frivolous, may at all times be best left to individual judg-
ment, experience, and convenience.
“ Mr. M‘Phun, of our neighbouring city, is one of the
most indefatigable guides that is’any where to be found. If
we err, it is certainly no fault of his. He has supplied us
with one of our best Guides yet published to the Lions in
the ancient city of St. Mungo; with a guide in the purchase
of horses ;
with a Guide to Mothers, how to take care of
themselves and their tender offspring ;
with a Guide to
preserve our health, after we are old enough to take care of
ourselves. He lately presented us with a Guide to Steno-
graphy ;
and now, out he comes just in the nick of time
with a guide on a more important topic than all the rest
put together—a Guide to Cookery! Like the rest of Mr.
M'Phun’s Guides, this is a pocket one, and worthy it is of a
place in the pocket of every lady in the land, who has any
concern in the important business of Cookery.” Paisley
Advertiser.
11 .
Price Is. 6d., neatly donc^p,
The Pocket Medical Guide
Being a Popular Treatise on Diet and Regimen, Cold and
its effects, and the Use and Doses of Medicine ; the whole
selected from the latest, and best authorities, and carefully
adapted for the use of families and non-professional
readers.
CONTEXTS.
Part I.—ON DIET AND REGIMEN.
Introduction—Chap. I. General Anatomy of the Diges-
tive Apparatus. 1. Of the Alimentary Canal. 2. Of the
Glands subservient to digestion. 3. Of the connexion
between the digestive and other functions—Chap. II. Of
Hunger and Thirst. —Chap. III. What is the natural Food
of man?—Chap. IV. Of Alimentary Substances. 1. Ali-
ments derived from the Vegetable kingdom. 2. Aliments
derived from the Animal kingdom. 3. Of Condiments.
4. Of Drinks Chap. V. Rules for taking food. —Chap.
VI Of Indigestion.
Part II —ON EXPOSURE TO COLD AND ITS EFFECTS.
Chap. I. Of Cold in general. —Chap. II. Of the diseases
caused by exposure to cold. 1. Ihe direct consequences of
exposure to cold. 2. The indirect consequences of exposure
to cold; Fever, Catarrh, Influenza, Cough, Asthma, Con-
sumption, Inflammation of the Larynx, Croup, Inflamma-
tion of the Lungs, Sore Throat, Rheumatism, Diarrhoea,
Chilblains, Ophthalmia.— Chap. III. Of the means where-
by the bad effects of exposure to cold may be avoided.
Part III.—ON THE USE AND DOSES OF MEDICINE.
Art of proscribing medicines—Laxative medicines, Eme-
tics, Anodynes, Astringents, Tonics.
« A book that no family in town or country ought to ba
without.” Kilmarnock Journal.
“ This, though a small, is a very useful manual. The
editor evinces aptitude in the art of condensation, and the
publisher, Mr. M'Phun, a laudable proneness to exemplify
in book-making one of the very best maxims promulgated
by the disciples of Rent ham the maximum of utility in the
minimum of space."—Dumfries Courier.
AN INDISPENSABLE WORK IN EVERY COUNTING-HOUSE.
Dedicated toALEXANDER. G O OD SIR ,Esq.
Secretary to the British Linen Co's Bank
The Merchant’s and Banker’s Com-
mercial Pocket Guide
Being a Manual of the Principles of Banking, Broking,
Fairs, Foreign coins, Foreign Fixchange, Insurance, Mar-
ket Prices, Public Funds ;
and commercial Transactions
in general Price Is. 6d. sewed, 2s. Bound.
From the Tyne Mercury. —“The title almost sufficiently
expresses the vast utility of this little, cheap, and elegant
work, *** and all this in a volume not a quarter of an inch
thick, and in size 5 inches by 3 ! When so much oj value is
contained in so small a compass, and to be had at a very rea-
sonable rate, u-ell may we consider these the tunes of economy
and usefulness.”
From the Belfast Northern Whig—“ This is a little vol-
ume which every person connected with commercial pur-
suits should possess. The publisher deserves well of the
public for this and several other popular works in which
cheapness, convenience, variety and accuracy are admirably
combined.”
From the Glasgow Chronicle. — “No young man in a
counting house ought to be without it.”
From the Scotsman—“ This is an exceedingly neat and
useful little work. It isjudiciously compiled, and its matter
so judiciously condensed, that though exceeding small it
contains a very great deal of useful and even interesting in-
formation on all the established and fundamental institutions,
rates and the usages of the mercantile system.”
From the Edinburgh Evening Post. —“ This is one of the
most usetul and best executed little woiks of a practical
kind we have ever met with.”
P'rom the Dundee Chronicle. —“ Mr. M‘Phun has done
good service to the mercantile interest by the publication of
this pretty little volume, which carrys with it ample evi-
dence ol having been compiled with the greatest care.”
VI.
1 he FIFTH EDITION, in Foolscap 8vo. Price
Hoards, of
The Anatomy of Drunkenness
by Robert Macnish, Author of “ The Philosophy of
Sleep,” and Member of the Faculty of Physicians and
Surgeons of Glasgow.
Contents. Chap. 1. Preliminary Observations. 2. Causes
of Drunkenness. 3. Phenomena of Drunkenness. 4.
Drunkenness modified by Temperament. 5. Drunkenness
modified by the inebriating Agent. 6. Enumeration of the
less common Intoxicating Agents. 7. Differences in the
Action of Opium and Alcohol. 8. Physiology of Drunken-
ness. 9. Method of curing the Fit of Drunkenness. 10.
Pathology of Drunkenness. 11. Sleep of Drunkards. 12.
Spontaneous Combustion of Drunkards. 13. Drunkenness
Judicially considered. 14. Method of curing the Habit of
Drunkenness. 16. Temperance Societies. 16. Advice to
inveterate Drunkards. 17. Effects of Intoxicating Agents
on Nurses and Children. 18. Liquors not always hurtful.
“ This little book is evidently the production of a man of
genius. The style is singularly neat, terse, concise, and
vigorous, far beyond the reach of any ordinary mind ; the
strain of sentiment is such as does infinite honour to the
Author’s heart; and the observation of human life, by
which every page is characterized, speaks a bold, active, and
philosophical intellect. As a medical treatise it is excellent
and to those who stand in need of advice and warning, it is
worth a hundred sermons.” Blackwood's Magazine.
“ If every man addicted to this dreadful vice could be
induced, in some lucid interval, to read this volume with
attention, it would go far to put him out of conceit with the
practice. If his own observation and experience had not
taught him what a complicated evil drunkenness is, this
volume would at least bring to his remembrance many things
which it is of the greatest importance he should know before
be is for ever ruined .”—Entertaining Press.
VII.
SECOND EDITION,
In One Volume Foolscap 8vo., Price 7s.
The Philosophy of Sleep;
By Robert Macnish, Member of the Faculty of Physicians
and Surgeons of Glasgow.
Contents Chapter!. Introduction. 2. Sleep in Gene-
ral. 3. Dreaming. 4. Prophetic Power of Dreams. 5.
Night-Mare. 6. Day- Mare. 7. Sleep-Walking. 8. Sleep-
Talking. 9. Sleeplessness. 10. Drowsiness. 11. Protracted
Sleep. 12. Sleep from Cold. 13. Trance. 14. Waking
Dreams. 15. Spectral Illusions. 16. Reverie. 17. Ab-
straction. 18. Sleep of Plants. 19. General Management
of Sleep.
“ The Second Edition has been enriched with many im-
portant additions ;
in particular a long chapter on Spectral
Illusions—one of the most interesting portions of the work.
We have seldom met with a work more worthy of a place in
every well-furnished library. It will interest equally the
reader for amusement and the philosophical thinker.”
Edinburgh Phrenological Journal.
“ This is one of the most interesting and delightful
volumes we have for a long time met with. It is full of
amusement and instruction. Over its details is thrown that
luminousness which alone flows from original genius.”—
Edinburgh Evening Post.
“ We have been captivated by the eloquence—we haa
almost said the poetry of its descriptions ;
and, on the whole,
we must say that we consider it to be one of the most valua-
ble and amusing books of philosophy we have met with for
this long time past.” London Medical Gazette.
“ A work which will be perused with interest and delight.
It may be considered the most valuable contribution which
philosophy, poetry, and physical science in agreeable com-
bination, have lately made to the illustration of the study of
man’s nature, viewed in close alliance with his ‘being’s end
and aim.’ ” Edinburgh Weekly journal.
THIRD EDITION, Price 2s. 6d.
With the Scotch Law regarding the Sale and Warranty of
Horses.
Advice to Purchasers of Horses ;
Being a Short and Familiar Treatise on the Exterior Con-
formation of the Horse, the Nature of Soundness and
Unsoundness, the Laws relating to Sale and Warranty,
with Copious Directions for Discovering Unsoundness
prior to purchase.
By J. Stewart, Veterinary Surgeon, and Professor of Ve-
terinary Surgery in the Andersonian University.
“ The buyer hath need of a hundred eyes.
But the seller of only one.”
“ Persons who have occasion to buy or sell horses would
derive much instruction from this little manual, which
treats of the exterior conformation of the horse, the nature
of soundness and unsoundness, and the laws relating to sale
and warranty, with copious directions for discovering un-
soundness prior to purchasing. The author is a scientific
man, smd his work is popularly written, and likely to be
useful."—Leeds Mercury.
“ This Manual, though of small size, is far from being of
small value, and cannot fail to be useful not only to farmers,
innkeepers, and others engaged in posting, but also to every
one who may have occasion to purchase a useful and ser-
viceable horse. If a person make himself master of the
maxims it contains he will be fully prepared to select a
sound animal, as well as to detect and prevent the imposi-
tion of ordinary horse-dealers. It also contains an expose
of the laws relating to sale and warranty of horses, which
cannot be too well known, because to borrow the motto of
the work, ‘ the buyer hath need of a hundred eyes, but the
seller of only one.”’—Stirling Journal.
“ This is a well-composed and useful little volume."
Agricultural Journal.
“ We would recommend no person to purchase a horse
without having previously purchased and perused Mr.
Stewart’s book of advice.”—Glasgow Chronicle.
“ This is an exceedingly useful little volume, which every
Tyro in the art of horse dealing should lose no time io
becoming possessed of."—Dumfries Courier.
XV.
Seventh Edition, neatly done up in pocket size. Price Is.
A Catechism of Phrenology,
Illustrative of the Principles of that Science. By a Mem-
ber of the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh.
IJgT This Work contains all that is requisite for the infor-
mation of the General Reader on Phrenology. All the
leading Facts and Principles of the Science are fully
detailed, and the whole is illustrated with Engravings.
“ The utility of this manual is unquestionable, for what-
ever progress the science it is intended to illustrate may be
making, it is evident that its study should not be entirely
omitted even in the most general education. The arrange-
ment of the work is admirable. The utmost perspicuity
prevails in every page. The public may be assured of its
high claims to their attention, from the facility with which
the principles of the science are unfolded before them ;
from
the philosophic tone in which the subject is treated, and
from the unassuming, modest manner in which its appeals
are made.” Alexander's East India Magazine.
“ This is a brief Manual of Phrenology, in the form of a
Catechism, intended for the use of individuals who cannot
bestow much time or money on the study of it. It com-
bines accuracy, clearness and brevity, and is scrupulously
correct in doctrine.
“ After describing the different organs, the work contains
‘general questions,’ in which the effects of education, tem-
perament, size, combinations, &c., are discussed. It con-
tains a neatly engraved copy of the Edinburgh Phrenologi-
cal bust ;
and, on the whole, is a commendable and useful
publication. It is neatly printed, and sold very cheap."—Edin-
burgh Phrenological Journal.
XVI.
A Brief History of the Protestant
Reformation.
New Edition, with Corrections and Additions, in One Vol,
Price 4s. Boards.
In a Series of Letters addressed to WILLIAM COR-
BETT.
IX.
Now Ready, Vols. I. II. and III., 8s. each.
The Scottish Pulpit,
Containing a Body of Original matter, nowhere to be met
with in quality so superior, and at a price so very reason-
able. The Sermons are by the most eminent living
Divines of the Church of Scotland ;
and, for the most
part, have either been furnished by the authors themselves,
or corrected by them before appearing in print.
Scottish Pulpit, Vol. Ill —“ We hail the appearance of
this volume with much pleasure. The extensive sale which
the work enjoys, and deservedly enjoys, is a favourable
symptom, or rather a gratifying proof, that feelings of
Christian piety still exist to an encouraging extent in our
land. It would very greatly benefit society were such writ-
ings to become much more prevalent, and take the place of
those, which under the name of politics or political economy,
and under the pretence of teaching the art of Government,
are souring men’s minds, and rendering them turbulent,
discontented, and unhappy. It signifies very little for a
man to have his head stuffed with crude undigested know-
ledge, which he probably will never have an opportunity to
apply ;
but not so with the knowledge here communicated,
because it is such as deeply interests every man, not only in
his passage through this transitory scene of life, but in
future and endless ages. The present volume contains
upwards of 70 sermons, some of them by the most eminent
ministers of which Scottish Ecclesiastical Literature can
boast, while others are. from pens, whose owners, though
not yet perhaps much known to fame, are in the fair way of
obtaining it, if the sermons, under notice, be fair criteria
of their merits. The volume, in addition to its other pro-
perties, is very handsomely printed. It is, moreover, em-
bellished with a portrait of the late Rev. John Geddes, of
whom a memoir is given. VV e recommend the volume, not
as one worthy of a single perusal, and then to be laid aside
and forgotten, but as one that may be perused and re-per-
used with increasing pleasure and increasing profit.”
Paisley Advertiser
“ The third volume of this excellent body of practical
theology is completed ;
and its merits, we think, are even
greater than those of the volumes by which it was preceded.
There is a marked improvement in the style of the sermons,
and to acconnt for the superiority is not difficult. The
utility of the work is now established, and clergymen, appre-
ciating its merits, and knowing its extensive circulation,
select with care.the sermons they wish to appear in its pages.
The Scottish Pulpit is a publication in which Christians of
every denomination are interested. With party it . has
nothing to do. Ihe diffusion of Christianity is its object,
in a mode cheap, convenient, and elegant. In this age o’
cheap publications the idea of furnishing two sermons foi
twopence seemed to be merely the speculation of an ardent
mind. The attempt, however, pleased the religious public
the variety of the work continued to excite attention—its
substantial matter ensured approbation, till, from ranking
as a weekly production, it has assumed the loftier station of
a standard publication of practical divinity. Nor is this
strange. The sermons generally are, what such productions
should be, calculated to improve the understanding and affect
the heart, and from the peculiar circumstances under. which
they are furnished, they have an unction which fe>y printed
sermons possess. This publication, therefore, has just claims
for general diffusion. Is the Christian fond to possess a
sermon of his beloved minister? In the stillness of the
Sabbath evening does he wish a work suitable for that day,
and in unison with his feeiings? Does the father, in the
domestic circle on that evening, require a publication to
instruct the minds of his household, and improve their
hearts? Is the Christian, in the seclusion of a sick cham-
ber, desirous of spiritual comfort ?—to all-.these classes, how
diversified soever their circumstances, the Scottish Pulpit is
peculiarly adapted. The religious sailor, will find this work
most suitable for a spare hour on Sunday. It will remind
him of home, of his duty to himself, to his neighbour, and to
his God. The pious shipmaster, who assembles his crew
for religious purposes on Sabbath, would consult his own
interest, and the spiritual welfare of those for whom he is
deeply responsible, by adding to his religious exercises a
selection from the pages of this work. We heartily recom-
mend this publication to the patronage of the religious pub-
lic; known, its merits will be acknowledged; and we are
proud to have this work associated with the literature of
Scotland. It is worthy of her press and of her pastors ;
and
the publishers merit the warmest thanks for the manner in
which the Scottish Pulpit has been conducted, and we sin-
cerely trust their past and continued exertions will be fairly
appreciated.”— Greenock Advertiser.
XX.
The Church of Scotland Magazine.
Contents. —1. To Readers and Correspondents: —Union
of Orthodox Seceders with the Church of Scotland—Pro-
testantism—Atheism—The Union of Infidels with Volun-
taries—To the Editor of the Record—Missionary Biography
—Psalmody—Revenues of the Church of England—2.
Scripture Evidence in Favour of Establishments. By J. E.
Gordon, Esq., late M. P. for Dundalk—No. 2. The Patri-
archal Dispensation.—3. Extension of the Church—St.
Andrew’s Church, Ramsbottom, Lancashire. —4. Extracts
from Distinguished Writers. —5. Church Property not
Originally the Exclusive Property of Roman Catholics.—
6. Dissenting Endowments. —7. Voluntary Church Princi-
ples both of a Revolutionary and Infidel Nature—8. Present
Condition of the Established Church—9. Notices of Books :
The Expediency of a Secure Provision for the Ministers
of the Gospel—Speeches delivered at a Meeting held at
Arbroath—Wisdom of the Secession Magazine—Memoir of
the Rev. Elias Cornelius. —10. The Church of Scotland, the
Friend of Freedom. —11. Voluntary Denouncement and
Reverence for Scripture.
“ \Ve are pleased with the whole series of this new peri-
odical, so admirably adapted to the times in which we live,
and long wanted by the Church in Scotland. It ia con-
ducted with great talent ;
and in addition to its other merits,
has unanswerable claims upon public patronage from its
cheapness. It is sold at Sixpence ! No clergyman of the
Church of Scotland, therefore, and no lay member of that
Church who has any regard for the venerable Establishment,
has any excuse if this periodical do not appear on the break-
fast table as regularly as the months come.” Liverpool
Standard.
'
XXI.
ikmerica at One View.
On a very Large Sheet, beautifully printed at the Glasgow
University Pruss, Price Is. 6d., or varnished on canvas*
and roller, Price 6s. 6d.
Bell’s Statistical Sheet Atlas of the United
States of North America.
X.
NEW Edition, Corrected, First Series complete, Five
Volumes 8vo. Price £2.
The Glasgow Mechanics’ Maga-
zine.
Great pains Lave been bestowed upon the present Edition
ot' this work in its progress through the press. Articles
of temporary interest have been excluded, and in their
place has been substituted such matter as will always
prove useful to the man of science, thus rendering the
work one of permanent utility on every subject connected
with Science and the Arts.
“ However much we have been led from time to time to
speak in admiration of the work of a similar kind to this
now Publishing in London, we cannot help expressing our
opinion as still higher of the Glasgow Mechanics’ Magazine.
It appears to be conducted by a set of practical men, who
understand well what they are about, and who are well
calculated to execute the task they have undertaken. The
plates are all engraved on copper, and in a manner not
inferior to the most expensive Scientific Journals now
publishing. All the London cheap Periodicals have only
got wood engravings, which do not and cannot show the
minute lines of Machinery half so well as a copperplate
engraving.”—Leeds Mercury.
XI.
TWENTY-SEVENTH EDITION.
The Scottish Martyrs.
In Two Large Volumes 8vo.,
Biographia Scoticana:
Or a Brief Historical Account of the Most Eminent
SCOTS WORTHIES, Noblemen, Gentlemen, Min-
isters, and others, who Testified or Suffered for the
Cause of the Reformation in Scotland, from the begin-
ning of the Sixteenth Century to the Year 1688 ;
orig-
inally collected by John Howie of Lochgoin ;
now Re-
vised, Corrected and Enlarged, by a Clergyman of the
Church of Scotland, and Enriched with a Preface and
Notes, by Wm. M'Gavin, Esq., Author of “ The Pro-
testant,” &c. ,
Volume I. contains Memoirs of the Lives of the Worthies.
Volume II. contains the “Last Words and Dying Tes-
timonies,” “ Cloud of Witnesses,” “ Naphtali,” &c. &c.
—To those who are already in possession of the first
volume of this work, the second will be found an indis-
pensable requisite, as without it the book is incomplete,
and is deficient in by far the most important and inter-
esting portion of the Biography of the Scottish Reform-
ers.
“ This is by far the best edition of this most remarkable
work that has ever seen the light. He is not worthy the
name of a Scot, who can be indifferent to the story of these
immortal champions.”—Evangelical Magazine.
“We hail with pleasure this new and greatly improved
Edition. The external appearance is very creditable to the
Publisher, and we have no doubt his well-meant zeal in
publishing an improved edition of a work that must ever be
dear to pious minds, will meet with the encouragement
which it unquestionably deserves.”—Edinburgh Christian
Instructor.
XII.
SECOND EDITION OF THE NEW GAELIC DICTIONARY.
Now ready, in one handsome Octavo Volume, dedicated to
his Grace the Duke of Gordon, Price 21s.
i3L Dictionary of the Gaelic lan-
guage,
Containing many more Words than the Quarto Diction-
aries; with their significations and various meanings in
English; illustrated occasionally by suitable Examples
and Phrases, and Etymological Remarks. The first
Part contains Gaelic-English, the Second English- Gaelic,
which are given much fuller than in any of the Quarto
Dictionaries. By the Rev. Dr. M'Leod, Campsie, ami
the Rev. Principal Dewar, Aberdeen.
“ The Rev. Drs. M‘Leod and Dewar are already advan-
tageously known to the public as eminent Gaelic Scholars,
and we think their Dictionary promises fair to extend
their reputation as benefactors to the Highlands. * * *
The present publication will have all the advantages of an
abridgment from the Society’s large work, with some
peculiar to itself, as being to a considerable extent original.
Many new words are added, and new phrases are given,
especially with regard to the changes effected upon the
word by prepositions, prefixes, and affixes, which are very
common in Gaelic. To the Highland Student and the
Highland Minister it is unnecessary to recommend it, since
we know that by them such a work has been long wished
for ; and a slight glance at the present will be sufficient to
convince them of its value.”—Edinburqh Literary Journal,
Dec. 1829.
“ We have now the complete work before us, and we are
much pleased to find that, instead of cause to retract, we
have rather to add to the praise we formerly felt it our duty
to bestow on the labours of Drs. M'Leod and Dewar.”
Ibid. Jan. 1831.
XIII.
The Gaelic Messenger.
Conducted by tne Rev. Dr. M‘Leod of Campsie, assisted
by a numerous circle of Celtic Scholars. Complete in
2 Vols. in Boards, price 6s. 6d. each, or with the Sermons
8s. each Vol.
“ This is truly a literary curiosity. A periodical in the
language of. Ossian. We congratulate our Highland
countrymen in particular, and the friends of knowledge and
civilization in general, upon the appearance of this excellent
Miscellany.”—Edinburgh Literary Gazette.
XIV.
The Notation of Music Simplified;
Being the Development of a System, in which the Charac-
ters employed in the Notation of Language are applied to
the Notation of Music. By Alexander Macdonald.
T ,, ,
XXIV.
In one Volume 12mo. with an Engraving of the Anne 0 .
the Incoiporation of Bakers, Price 5s.
The Practical Baker and Confec-
tioner’s Assistant,
Being a Comprehensive View of every thing relative to the
antZd°/r„Vr
dFan.
C
l
Bread’ both the Andent
and Modern Systems; with a great variety of Practical
e™P l lrl
,.
1 ast
JX> Confectionary, Candies and Pre-
S-C°r
^ &c< 5 and the various methods
of malcmg Artificial Yeast. By John Turcan, baker.
*lns
,
book
,
ls a perfect repository of every
HUrn
*
r
Tg V10 subJ ect> which he has undertaken to
discuss. The whole mystery of baking and confectionary
J? „
ll
? !“d ,°Pen i and by the simple and judicious direc-
tions laid down, any one may practise for himself the
operatjons of these universally interesting arts. We doubt
not that the work will be found highly useful to the trade ;
and we disnnss it with every wish for that success which it
eo r ell deserves. —Edinburgh Evening Post.
XXV.
In Monthly Numbers, Price 2d.
The Child’s IVEagazine;
.
Or, Tales for the Nursery,
fiy Mas. M‘ Gregor, Author of “Maternal Duty,” &c., &c.
XXVI.
Neatly Printed in Pocket size, Price 6d.
The Casquet
A Collection of the best Songs in the GAELIC LAN-
GUAGE. Selected by James Munroe.
“ It contains as much closely and neatly printed matter
in Gaelic, for Sixpence, as we have ever seen offered for the
same money in English.”—Scots Times.
XXVII.
3YE‘Fhun’s Edition of the Scotch
Reform Act.
Price Threepence.
This is the most accurate and most comprehensive of all
the Abridgments of the Act yet published.
